
; 1 1 1 i '. u ' 1 1 ' ; 




Class T^J ld 



Book 



t^^ 'h 



GopghtN". 



COFVRICHT DEPOSIT 



Daily Living 



DAILY LIVING 

A MANUAL DESIGNED TO SIMPLIFY THE 
WORK OF THE HOUSEKEEPER 



Being a Practical Cook Book adapted to Families of 

Moderate and Small Means, introducing Food 

Principles, Marketing, Cooking and Serving 

WITH SUGGESTIONS FOR 

Afternoon Tea Serving, Birthday Parties, Care of Cooking Utensils 

Children's School Lunches, Children's Parties, Christmas Giving 

Convalescent Cooking, Feeding of Children, Household Hints 

Invalid Cooking, Ladies' Formal Luncheons 

Thanksgiving Dinner, The Chafing Dish 

Furnishing Menus and Recipes for 365 Consecutive Days 



By Nellie E. Ewart, Boston Cooking School Graduate, 1898 



H. P. HOOD & SONS, Publishers 
494 RUTHERFORD AVENUE : BOSTON 






X 



LIBRARY of CuiVGRESSi 
Two c-n'"- f*"ccived 

DEC 18 1903 

CLASS Ot JXc, ^0. 

OOJ'Y d. * 



Copyright, iqo8 
By H. P. Hood & Sons 

All rights reserved 



Typography and Presswork 
S. J. Parkhill & Co.. Boston, U.S.A. 



This book is adaptable to perpetual use. It will be observed 
the nietius begin Sunday, Nov. /, igoS., and end Sunday., Oct. ji, 
igog. As Nov. /, igog, falls on Monday, that year's menus should 
begin with those show?i for Nov. 2, igo8. 



MILK AS FOOD 

Written for DAILY LIVING 

By 
WILLIAM F. BOOS, Ph.D., M.D. 



Foods include all those substances which may be used 
to construct the normal organism, to repair waste and to 
furnish vital energy and heat. To fulfil these require- 
ments foods must contain proteids, fats, carbohydrates, 
water and mineral salts. 

Proteid foods are familiar to us as the lean of meat, 
fish, the white of eggs and the curd of milk. All animal 
and vegetable foods contain proteids, which are charac- 
terized by their content of nitrogen. They form the 
blood and tissues and repair the constant tissue waste ; 
upon them depend the most important functions of life. 

The carbohydrates, or sugars and starches, are prima- 
rily of vegetable origin, although one animal food, milk, 
contains a considerable amount of sugar. In the sys- 
tem the carbohydrates are burned to liberate muscular 
energy and heat ; a part of them is stored in the liver as 
glycogen or animal starch. An excess of carbohydrates 
may be transformed into fat and deposited as such. 

The fats are burned in the body chiefly to form heat, 
they also yield force ; in fact, carbohydrates and fats may 
to a certain degree replace each other in food, and the 
diet of the Esquimaux furnishes a striking example of 
the extent to which fat may replace sugars and starches. 



Vll 



viii DAILY LIVING 



Excessive fat in food is stored in the body. In health a 
certain amount of body fat is desirable, but too much fat 
in the system is a disease. 

The value of the different food materials as force pro- 
ducers is expressed in units of heat or calories, a calorie 
being the amount of heat necessary to raise the tempera- 
ture of one kilogram (2.2. lbs.) of water one degree 
centigrade (1.8° Fahr.). 

When proteid foods and tissue elements are burned in 
the system to liberate energy, they are about equal in 
value to carbohydrates, one gram ( 1 5 .43 grains) of each 
yielding 4. i calories ; while the same weight of fat pro- 
duces more than twice as much energy, 9.3 calories. 

Physiologists have taught in the past that the average 
adult doing moderate work requires in 24 hours about 
118 grams (4 oz.) of proteids, 56 grams (1.9 oz.) of fat 
and 500 grams (16^ oz.) of carbohydrates, with a total 
fuel value of about 3,000 calories. Four years ago 
Professor Chittenden of Yale showed conclusively by a 
series of careful experiments on men of very different 
types and callings that the dietary standard given above 
is much too high. He found that less than half that 
amount of proteids and a total fuel value of from 2,000 
to 2,500 calories was amply sufficient in every case. To 
quote his own words : *' There must be enough food to 
make good the daily waste of tissue, enough food to fur- 
nish the energy of muscular contraction, but any surplus 
over and above what is necessary to supply these needs 
is not only a waste but may prove an incubus, retarding 
the smooth working of the machinery and detracting 
from the power of the muscular machine to do its best 
work." 

The physiological value of foods does not depend merely 
upon the quantity of the food principles present, it de- 
pends also on their quality, that is to say, the ease with 
which they are digested. Of the food we eat only that 
portion which is digested and absorbed plays a part in 



HOODS MILK 'X 



nutrition ; the food value of beans, for instance, does not 
correspond to their high content of proteids (over 24% 
becav^e they are very difficultly digestible, a large part 
of the proteid (20-25%) being lost to the body. Such 
undigested food means not only economic but also physi- 
ological waste, since a considerable amount of energy is 
exoended in its excretion. , r » 

Uid-ed by rigorous standards, milk is the most perfect 
food we know.^ For infants it is an ideal food. It pre- 
sents the tissue builders in the form which is most 
acceptable to their delicate digestive apparatus and in 
sufficient amount to meet the demands of a rapid y 
grwmg organism. Force producers the child needs to 
f Hraited extent only, but they must be m a form which 
; Savor easy absorption. While ordinary at mges ed 
by adult man must be converted into an e"f ^7" ^y Ae 
bile and intestinal digestive juice m order that it may be 
absorbed the fat in milk is completely emulsified, predi- 
gest d as it were, so that the young child, whose intest. 
nal digestive functions are not as yet developed, is 
enabled to absorb it directly. Similarly the sugar of 
m"l'k is a carbohydrate food which the child can assimi- 
late with a minimum of digestive work. 

Milk also contains all the necessary mineral mgredi- 
ents for the construction and repair of bone tissue, as 
well as the iron necessary to form hemoglobm, the pig- 
ment of the red blood cells. Bunge, the physiologist 
claimed that milk does not contain a sufficient amount of 
ito supply the needs of the adult blood, but Professor 
SchmLaeK and the writer were enabled to s^iow by 
experiment that milk given as the only food will supply 
all the iron needed to form the normal amount of blood 
nigment in a full grown dog. 

^\ the dietary treatment of disease a food is demanded 
which will require the least possible digestive effort, but 
ich at the'same time will give the best nutritive re^ 
suits. When patients are confined to bed a food of 



X DAILY LIVING 



limited fuel value containing a sufficient supply of pro- 
teids is necessary, and milk given frequently in small 
amounts answers the purpose to perfection. The Karel 
treatment of heart disease, the typhoid diet, the diet in 
diseases of the stomach and kidneys, all these are ex- 
amples of a pure milk diet ; in fact, whenever a careful 
regimen is necessary in the treatment of disease, milk is 
almost invariably made the basis of the diet. 

Adult man needs a large supply of force producers ; 
on this account milk alone is not a food which is per- 
fectly suited for grown men. A daily ration of i| quarts 
of milk will however provide more than the necessary 
amount of proteids and fats and a part of the carbo- 
hydrate needed. In addition to the milk a man would 
have to consume from 7 to 12 ounces of starch or sugar 
in order to meet his total fuel requirements. If the 
carbohydrate food is wheat bread, which contains 8% 
proteids and 54.45% carbohydrates,' he will need less 
milk, about a quart only, and about a pound of bread 
besides. 

Milk may well be used, therefore, completely to re- 
place meat and fat, two of the most expensive of our 
regular food stuffs. This is actually done by Russian 
peasants, who prepare a large variety of excellent dishes 
from milk, curd, whey and cheese, while meat is used 
by them on rare occasions only. The mountain 
shepherds of Switzerland, too, live almost entirely on 
milk, cheese, bread and vegetables. 

To many people milk is simply a beverage. Such 
people, particularly if they are in moderate circum- 
stances, should learn that milk is a simple, wholesome, 
easily digested food, which does not require to be cooked 
and which contains no waste materials. 

Nov. 3, 1908. 

374 Marlboro St., Boston, Mass. 



Introduction to Daily Living 



During the ten years that I have been engaged as a 
teacher of cooking requests have often been made for 
a plan of daily living with the menus arranged for prac- 
tical use, not extravagant, and yet dainty, including 
everything in season, also providing for the left overs. 
Realizing that the tastes of many differ, I would suggest 
that a recipe covering the same cost be substituted for 
any not desired in the daily menus. It will be found an 
aid before beginning the preparation, to read through 
the menus carefully each week in order to learn the use 
of the left overs. 

The daily living has been planned for a family of four 
adults. 

The recipes are so arranged that one half may be 
prepared for the family of two with perfect results. I 
have balanced each menu, using proteid, fat, carbo- 
hydrates (including starches and sugar), and water. A 
portion of the water is found in the food after prepara- 
tion. The remainder should be supplied as water, as 
about five pints are necessary for the daily supply. 
While, with the exception of water, proteids and fats are 
the chief ingredients of beef and lamb, yet they are also 
found in milk, eggs, cheese, beans, fish, butter, cream 
and oil. I have substituted them to a certain extent 
for the beef and lamb, thus lowering the cost without 
lowering the standard of the living. 

xi 



xii DAILY LIVING 



Statistics show that a man earning ;^ 1,200 a year 
spends about one third of his income for food the man 
earning less, from one third to one half as much I 
have arranged the daily living for an income of about 
^1,200 a year, also giving suggestions each month for 
lowering the cost if desired. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR THE BUYING OF 
GENERAL SUPPLIES 

Flour by the bag or barrel. 

One bag of flour yields 32 loaves of bread. 

Sugar by the 10 pounds. 

Coffee by pound. 

Gelatin by the y^ pound. 

Potatoes by the bushel. 

Apples by the barrel. 

Butter by the 5 pound box. 

Baking powder by the pound. 

Graham flour, Indian and rye meal 5 pounds at a time. 

Spices by the 3^ pound package. 

Lard by the 5 pound pail. 

Onions, turnips, carrots by the peck. 

Codfish by the pound. 

Pea beans by the peck. 

Common crackers by the pound. 

Full cream cheese by the pound. Milk by the quart 
at 9 cents, allowing i quart for the daily order, and 
ordering by the quart the extra needed. Allow one pint 
top of milk for the cereal each morning. 

One half pint jar light cream every morning for coffee. 

Order fresh eggs by the dozen, using the fresh eggs 
even in less quantity on account of extra nourishment. 

The canned goods are prepared at home and are 
reckoned from the cost of material. 

The bread recipe is prepared twice a week. 

The butter is reckoned, allowing a fair average for 
use on the table, which may be increased as desired. 

The prices quoted are from the Boston markets, and 
are subject to change. 

xiii 



Table of Measures and Weights 

Jill of the Measurements are Level 

To obtain the level measurements, cut both 
sides of the spoon, or the top of the cup, at the 
same time, with the back of a knife. For one 
half a spoon divide lengthwise, the quarter and 
eighth are each divided again. A few grains is 
less than one eighth teaspoon. The measuring 
cup is divided into fourths and thirds. 

1 6 level tablespoons = i cup 

2 cups butter ^ i pound 

4 cups pastry or bread flour = i pound 

4^ cups graham flour = i pound 

2| cups granulated corn-meal = i pound 

4| cups rolled oats = i pound 

4^ cups coffee = i pound 

2 cups granulated sugar .= i pound 

2| cups brown sugar =i= i pound 

2\ cups powdered sugar = i pound 

3| cups confectioner's sugar == i pound 



XIV 



Month of November 



HOOD'S MILK • 



November I 

BreaKfast 

Brown Bread Reheated Baked Beans Reheated 

Coffee Grapes 

Dinner 

Fowl Southern Style Cauliflower Mashed Potatoes 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 

Tea 

Toasted Bread Baked Apples 

Sugar Cookies Tea 



November 2 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee Fried Potato Cakes 

Toasted Brown Bread Grapes 

I^uncKeon or Supper 

White Cream Soup Baking Powder Biscuit 

Coffee Jelly Sugar Cookies 

Dinner 

Bechamel Cauliflower Chicken Salad Boiled Dressing 

Bread and Butter Steamed Pudding Hot Custard Sauce 



November 3 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Coffee Graham Muffins 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Cheese Souffle Toasted Graham Muffins 

Tea Hot Maine Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Baked Bean Soup Stuffed Haddock Onion Dressing 

Butter Gravy Boiled Potatoes 

Preserved Quinces and Cream 



• DAILY LIVING 



November 4 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee Creamed Potatoes 

Scrambled Eggs Toasted Bread 

L'U.ncKeon or Stxpper 

Creamed Fish in Baked Potatoes 
Ginger Cakes with Whipped Cream Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Cream of Celery Soup Cannelon of Beef 

Steamed Rice Stewed Tomatoes 

Apple Dumplings Hard Sauce 



November 5 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee Baked Sweet Apples 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

I^tincKeon or Stxpper 

Emergency Soup Croutons of Bread 

Hood's Cottage Cheese with Currant Jelly Uneedas 

Dinner 

Sliced Cannelon of Beef Baked Potatoes 

Cabbage Scalloped with Cheese Cold Indian Pudding 



November 6 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Creamed Codfish with Toasted Bread 

L'tincHeon or Supper 

Oyster Stew Oyster Crackers Banana Fritters 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

Dinner 

Boiled Fish White Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Mashed Turnips Queen Pudding 



HOOD'S MILK 



November 7 

BrestKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Bananas Rye Meal Muffins 

L'tmcHeon or Dinner 

Fish Cakes Hot Biscuit 

Apple and Lettuce Salad Crackers 

Supper or Dinner 

Boston Baked Beans Steamed Brown Bread 

Cabbage Salad Baked Custards 



November 8 

BreaRfast 

Fish Balls Coffee Bananas 

Brown Bread Reheated 

Dinner 

Roast Chicken, Bread Stuffing Gravy 

Mashed Potatoes Boiled Onions Milk Sherbet 

Tea 

Welsh Rarebit (Chafing Dish) 
Crackers Milk Sherbet 



November 9 

BreaRfast 

Toasted Brown Bread Wheat Cereal 

Reheated Beans Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Cheese Croquettes Dressed Lettuce 

Toasted Bread Baked Apples with Cream 

Dinner 

Bechamel Chicken Potato Border 

Lemon Custard Pie Pastry 



DAILY LIVING 



November \0 

BreskRfast 

Oat Cereal White Muffins 

Coffee Scrambled Eggs 

LruncHeon or Supper 

Baked Bean Soup Croutons of Bread 

Hot Indian Pudding 

Dinner 

Boiled Fish Butter Gravy Boiled Potatoes 

Stewed Tomatoes 
Steamed Pudding Hot Custard Sauce 



November U 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

I^uncKeon or Stipper 

Scalloped Fish Toasted Bread Butter Cake 

Chocolate Frosting Baked Apples Tea 

Dinner 

Scotch Broth Bread and Butter 

Apple Dumplings Hard Sauce 



November 12 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Toasted Bread Baked Apples 

L-xxncHeon or Stipper 

Turnip Cream Soup 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit, with Currant Jelly 

Cottage Cheese 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Lamb Boiled Squash 

Mashed Potatoes Preserved Quinces Cake 



HOOD'S MILK 



Nove mber 13 

~ BresiKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Fried Potato Cakes Graham Muffins 

L\ir\cl:ieoi\ or Stxpper 

Creamed Codfish Baked Potatoes 

Coffee Jelly and Cream Cake 

Dinner 

Baked Haddock with Salt Pork White Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Baked Onions 

Maine Gingerbread 



N ovember 14 

— ~ BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Hashed Fish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Diimer 

Lamb Cream Soup Hot Biscuit 

Ginger Cakes Whipped Cream 

Stipper or Dirkner 

Baked Beans Ketchup 

Squash Pie Boston Brown Bread 



November 15 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Brown Bread Coffee 

^ Reheated Beans Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken Gravy Toasted Bread 

Steamed Rice Celery Vanilla Ice Cream 

Tea 

Baked Sweet Apples Tea 

Bread and Butter 



DAILY LIVING 



November 16 

BreaKfsiSt 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Toasted Brown Bread Scrambled Eggs 

I^vmcKeon or Stipper 

White Cream Soup Croutons of Bread 

Baked Apples Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Rice Croquettes Chicken and Celery Creamed 

Bread and Butter Queen Pudding 



November 17 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal White Muffins 

Baked Potatoes Creamed Codfish Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Baked Bean Cream Soup 

Hot Biscuit Stewed Figs 

Whipped Cream Tea 

Boiled Fish White Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Dressed Lettuce Bread and Butter 

Banana Fritters Currant Jelly Sauce 



November 18 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Bananas 

Creamed Potatoes Doughnuts Coffee 

I^tincKeon 

Scalloped Fish Toasted Bread 

Lettuce and Apple Salad Crackers 

Dinner 

Stuffed Rolled Roast Mashed Potatoes 

Mashed Turnips 

Canned Peaches and Cream Butter Cake, Chocolate Frosting 



HOOD'S MILK 



November 19 

BreatRfast 

Rye Meal Muffins Wheat Cereal 

Fried Potato Cakes Coffee 

LtmcHeon or Stipper 

Potato Salad Boiled Dressing 

Toasted Rye Muffins Cake Tea 

Dinner 

Cold Stuffed Roast Bread and Butter 

Cabbage Scalloped with Cheese 
Jelly and Cheese Crackers 



November 20 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Toasted Bread with White Sauce 

L'U.ncHeon or Supper 

Turnip Cream Soup Baking Powder Biscuit 

Cake Baked Apples 

Dinner 

Baked Finnan Haddie Baked Potatoes 

Boiled Onions 
Steamed Fruit Pudding Hot Custard Sauce 



November 21 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Creamed Finnan Haddie Toasted Bread 

I^uncKeon or Dinner 

Roasted Pork Chops with Apple Rings 
Baked Potatoes Coffee Jelly and Cream 

Supper or Dinner 

Baked Beans Boston Brown Bread 

Cabbage Salad Baked Custards 



8 



DAILY LIVING 



November 22 

Fish Balls 

Coffee 



Roast Lamb 

Milk Sherbet 

Cold Baked Beans 

Milk Sherbet 



BreaKfast 

Dinner 

Roast Potatoes 



Toasted Bread 
Bananas 

Cauliflower 
Sugar Cookies 



Tea 



Toasted Brown Bread 
Sugar Cookies 



November 23 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Reheated Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

I^xincKeon or Supper 

Turnip Cream Soup Croutons of Bread 

Stewed Figs Whipped Cream 

Sugar Cookies 



Cold Roast Lamb 

Banana Fritters 



Dinner 

Cauliflower Scalloped with Cheese 
Currant Jelly Sauce 



November 24 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal White Muffins 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato Coffee 

L-tincHeon or Stipper 

Cheese Croquettes Dressed Lettuce 

Hot Biscuit Baked Apples Sugar Cookies 

Dinner 

Lamb and Potato Stew Bread and Butter 

Coffee Jelly Whipped Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 



November 25 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee Bread and Butter 

Baked Potatoes Creamed Codfish 

I#u,iicKeoii 

Emergency Soup Toasted Bread 

Cottage Cheese Currant Jelly Crackers 

Dinner 

Baked Fillets of Halibut Boiled Potatoes Butter Gravy 

Lettuce and Apple Salad Crackers 



November 26 

BreaKfast 

Chicken Fricassee Baked Potatoes 

Mince Pie Coffee 

Dinner 

Tomato Bouillon Roast Turkey Gravy 

Bread Stuffing Mashed Potatoes 

Celery Boiled Onions 

Boiled Squash Cranberry Sauce 

Grape Sherbet Steamed Fruit Pudding 

Whipped Cream Sauce 

Coffee Crackers Cheese 

Supper 

Welsh Rarebit Crackers 



November 27 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Toasted Bread Fried Potato Cakes 

LtxncHeon or Supper 

Cream of Celery Soup Baking Powder Biscuit 

Coffee Jelly and Cream 

Dinner 

Baked Haddock with Salt Pork 

Baked Onions White Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Mince Pie 



10 / DAILY LIVING 



November 28 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit Hashed Fish 

I^xincHeon or Dinner 

Bechamel Turkey Baked Potatoes 

Hot Biscuit Queen Pudding 

Dinner or Stipper 

Baked Beans Boston Brown Bread 

Squash Pie 



November 29 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee Oranges 

Dinner 

Cold Sliced Turkey Mashed Potatoes 

Reheated Gravy Cranberry Sauce 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 

Tea 

Toast Tea 

Baked Apples and Cream 



November 30 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal ^Vhite Muffins 

Fried Potato Cakes Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Supper 

Reheated Baked Beans Cabbage Salad 

Toasted Brown Bread Hot Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Meat Loaf Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Squash Mince Pie 



HOOD'S MILK 11 



November 1 

Brown Bread Reheated 

Cut the bread in % inch slices, put in pan, cover 
with another pan, and reheat in oven. 

Baked Beans Reheated 

Add more water to the beans if necessary and reheat. 
Better reheated in the bean pot in the oven. 

Coffee 

Allow I rounding tablespoon of coffee for each cup 
of cold water to be used, add i Qgg shell for each table- 
spoon of coffee. Then add the desired number of cups 
of cold water. Bring slowly to the boiling point. Boil 
3 minutes, then add }^ cup more cold water and let stand 
lo minutes before serving. 

Fowl Southern Style 

Cut a 5 pound fowl in pieces for serving, and start 
boiling in just enough cold water to cover. Boil 5 min- 
utes, then simmer gently. When partially cooked add 
I quart Hood's milk and i teaspoon salt, and finish 
cooking. Remove the fowl from the stock and arrange 
on slices of toasted bread, and pour over a gravy, prepared 
by melting 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, adding 4 table- 
spoons flour, and gradually i pint of the stock, then 
seasoning with salt and pepper. 

NOTE. Pieces of tissue paper laid on top of hot stock will remove the fat. 

Cauliflower 

Remove the outside leaves, and soak head down ^ 
hour in cold salted water Cook head up in boiling 



12 DAILY LIVING 

salted water, in an uncovered saucepan, about 20 min- 
utes, or until tender. Drain, separate the flowerets, and 
pour over ys cup Hood's butter melted. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Wash, pare, and cut in small pieces of uniform size 8 
potatoes, and cook about 15 minutes, or until slightly 
undercooked. Put through a ricer. Add Hood's milk 
to moisten, 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, salt and pepper. 
Beat until light, using a fork, then reheat in a hot oven 
if necessary. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Dissolve j4 cup sugar in ^ cup of Hood's milk 
scalded, then cool, and add i pint of Hood's light cream, 
% tablespoon vanilla, and freeze, using 3 parts ice to i 
part coarse fine salt. Makes i quart of ice cream. 

Chocolate Sauce 

Add ^ water, j4 square of Baker's chocolate to }4 
cup of sugar. Boil 8 minutes, or until thick. Keep 
hot over hot water until ready to serve. 

Tea 

Allow I rounding teaspoon of tea for each cup of 
freshly boiling water. Pour the water onto the tea, 
and let stand on the back of the range 3 minutes with- 
out boiling, and serve immediately. 

Toasted Bread 

Cut the slices of bread evenly, and about }( inch 
thick. Toast over a clear fire, drying on both sides ; 
then hold nearer to the coals, and brown quickly. Spread 
with Hood's butter. 



HOOD'S MILK 13 



Baked Sweet Apples 

Core 6 sweet apples ; put in either an earthen or 
granite baking dish ; add enough hot water to prevent 
the apples burning, and bake until soft. Serve with 
sugar and Hood's light cream. 

Sugar Cookies 

Cream ys cup Hood's butter, add i cup sugar 
gradually, and i of Hood's eggs well beaten. Mix and 
sift 2 cups flour with 2 teaspoons baking powder, and a 
few gratings nutmeg, and add alternately with }{ cup 
Hood's milk to the first mixture. Chill thoroughly, roll 
out, shape with a cutter, and bake about 10 minutes on 
an inverted pan in a moderate oven. 

November 2 

Wheat Cereal 

Mix ^ cup wheat cereal, % cup cold water, ^ tea- 
spoon salt, and add to I'jA cups boiling water. Boil 5 
minutes, then steam 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Serve with sugar and Hood's cream taken from top of 
milk. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 
Fried Potato Cakes 

Shape left over mashed potatoes into flat round cakes, 
and roll in flour. Brown in Hood's butter, smoking hot; 
brown on one side, then turn and brown the other side. 

Toasted Brown Bread 

Butter slices of brown bread, put in baking pan and 
brown in hot oven without turning. 



14 DAILY LIVING 



White Cream Soup 

Melt 3 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 4 tablespoons 
flour, and gradually i quart of stock in which fowl was 
cooked. Stir until thickened, then season with salt, 
celery salt and paprika; and strain.. One pound of 
meat yields i pint of stock. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Mix and sift together twice 2 cups pastry flour, i tea- 
spoon salt, 4 teaspoons baking powder. Work in 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter, and add about ^ cup of 
Hood's milk, very gradually. Turn onto a board well 
dredged with flour, roll out about ^ inch in thickness. 
Shape with a biscuit cutter, and place on an inverted 
pan Yn inch apart. Bake from 12 to 15 minutes in a 
hot oven. 

Coffee Jelly 

Add y^ cup cold water to i y^ tablespoons granulated 
gelatin ; then add y^ cup boiling water, and when the 
gelatin is dissolved add i cup cold boiled coffee and y^ 
cup sugar. Strain through cheese cloth and chill. 
Serve with sugar and Hood's light cream. 

Sugar Cookies 

Prepared November i. 

Bechamel Cauliflower 

Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 2 tablespoons 
flour, and gradually i cup of stock in which fowl was 
cooked. Stir until thickened, then season with salt and 
pepper. Put a layer of left over cauliflower in bottom 
of baking dish, cover with sauce, then cauliflower again, 
and repeat until all has been used. Add ^ cup rolled 



HOOD'S MILK 15 



cracker crumbs to 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, melted, 
and sprinkle over the top, reheat in hot oven. 

Chicken Salad 

Cut the left over boiled fowl into small cubes, add an 
equal amount of celery, cut in small pieces, and 2 apples 
which have been cut with a silver knife. Season with 
salt, moisten with dressing, and mound on a salad dish. 

Boiled Dressing 

Mix y^ tablespoon each salt, sugar, and flour, y^ 
tablespoon mustard, and a few grains paprika ; cream 
with I y2 tablespoons butter, add the yolks of 2 unbeaten 
eggs. Hood's, and % cup Hood's milk. Cook over hot 
water until the mixture begins to thicken, then add y 
cup vinegar, gradually. Cook until the mixture coats 
the spoon, then strain and cool. Will require ^ of the 
dressing for the salad. 

Five Hour Bread 

Add I cup each of boiling water and Hood's milk, 
scalded, to i teaspoon salt, i tablespoon sugar, and 2 
tablespoons Hood's butt^er. When lukewarm add i yeast 
cake, dissolved in ^ cup lukewarm water, and about 6 
cups of flour, adding 5 cups all at once, and when well 
mixed add enough more to make it stiff enough to knead. 
Knead until light and let rise until doubled in bulk; will 
require about 3 hours, then shape into 2 loaves, let rise 
until not quite doubled in bulk ; will require about i 
hour. Bake about ^ of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Steamed Pudding 

Cream % cup Hood's butter, add y> cup each molasses 
and Hood's milk; mix and sift i teaspoon baking powder, 



i6 DAILY LIVING 



Y2, teaspoon cinnamon, y^^ teaspoon each soda, salt, clove 
and a few g^ratings nutmeg and i y^ cups flour. Turn 
into buttered mould and steam 3 hours. Serve with 

Hot Custard Sauce 

Dilute y^. tablespoon flour with cold water to pour, 
and stir into Yo. cup boiling water ; then stir until slightly 
thickened. Beat the whites of 2 eggs until stiff, add 
gradually Yz cup of sugar, and continue beating. Then 
add gradually ths hot mixture, and >< teaspoon vanilla. 
Beat well before serving. 

November 3 

Wheat Cereal 

Refer to November 2. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Beat 2 of Hood's eggs slightly, and add i cup canned 
tomato. Melt i tablespoon Hood's butter, add the ^gg 
mixture, and stir constantly with a fork until thickened 
and creamy. Season with salt and pepper. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Graham Muffins 

Stir together i cup of graham flour and i cup white 
flour, sifted with 2 tablespoons sugar and i teaspoon 
salt. Then add i cup of Hood's milk gradually, i of 
Hood's eggs well beaten. Then sift in 3^ teaspoons 
baking powder, and bake in buttered gem pans about 
25 minutes. Makes i dozen. 

Toasted Graham Muffins 

Make a double recipe of muffins for breakfast, and 
break apart i dozen. Toast under gas flame, and spread. 



HOOD'S MILK 17 



while hot, with Hood's butter, or spread with Hood's 
butter and brown in hot oven. 

Cheese Souffle 

Melt I tablespoon Hood's butter, add i tablespoon 
flour, and gradually i cup Hood's milk ; then add ^ 
cup soft bread crumbs, and stir constantly until thick- 
ened. Remove from the fire, add i cup of Hood's 
cheese, grated, yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs well beaten, 
salt and paprika to taste. Fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs, and turn into a buttered baking 
dish. Set in a pan of hot water, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven about 25 minutes. Serve immediately. 

Tea 

Refer to November i . 

Maine Gingerbread 

Mix ^ cup each sugar, molasses, boiling water, and 
% cup Hood's butter, melted. Sift together i teaspoon 
each salt, soda, ginger, and 3^ cups flour. Add to the 
first mixture and beat well. Bake >^ in a buttered 
bread tin about 20 minutes, and the remainder in i 
dozen small cake tins. 

Baked Bean Soup 

Fry 2 slices onion, bit of bay leaf, ^2 teaspoon celery 
salt in I tablespoon Hood's butter, add i pint cold baked 
beans, and i quart cold water, and i cup canned tomatoes. 
Simmer % hour, then strain. Melt i tablespoon Hood's 
butter, add i tablespoon flour, and gradually the bean 
mixture. Stir until boiling, then season with salt and 
pepper and strain again. 

Stuffed Haddock 

Wipe a 4 pound haddock ; stuff with onion dressing, 
and sew together. Lay on strips of salt pork in a baking 



i8 DAILY LIVING 



pan, season with salt and put 3 strips of salt pork 
on top of fish. Bake about i hour in a hot oven, basting 
often with the fat in the pan. 

Onion Dressing 

Melt % cup Hood's butter, add i small onion cut fine, 
and I cup stale bread crumbs. Season with salt. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Pare 8 potatoes and cook in boiling salted water about 
35 minutes or until soft. Drain, and shake gently in the 
pan until dry, holding over the stove. 

Butter GraVy 

Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 3 tablespoons 
flour, and gradually i>^ cups hot water. Stir until 
thickened, boil 2 minutes, and add i tablespoon more 
Hood's butter. Season with salt and pepper. 

Preserved Quinces and Apples 

Pare, core and slice the quinces ; pare, core and quar- 
ter a double amount of sweet apples. While preparing 
let the cut fruit stand in cold water to prevent discolora- 
tion. Cook the quinces in boiling water until nearly 
tender, then remove with a skimmer. Use the water 
in preparing a syrup, allowing 2^ cups sugar to each 
quart water, adding more water to that in which the 
quinces were cooked if necessary. After boiling sugar 
and water together 5 minutes, add the quinces and 
apples, and cook until the apples are soft, or about 10 
minutes. Pack the fruit into jars and overflow the jars 
with the syrup, sealing while hot. One half peck 
quinces and i peck of sweet apples should preserve about 
10 quarts. 



HOOD'S MILK 19 



Quinces and Cream 

Serve with i pint preserved quinces Y^ cup Hood's 
medium cream. 

November 4 

Oat Cereal 

Mix in the top of the double boiler Y^ cup of any oat 
preparation, Y^ teaspoon salt and i>^ cups cold water, 
and let stand over night. In the morning boil 5 mmutes, 
stirring until thickened, then cook over hot water 20 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Melt \Y^ tablespoons Hood's butter, add i tablespoon 
flour and gradually Y\ cup Hood's milk. Stir until 
thickened, -then add i^ cups cold boiled potatoes cut m 
cubes. When reheated season with salt and pepper and 
add I tablespoon more Hood's butter. 

Scrambled Eggs 

Beat 3 of Hood's eggs slightly, add Yz cup Hood's 
milk and Yx teaspoon salt. Melt i tablespoon Hoods 
butter, add the eggs and cook until creamy, stirring 
constantly with a silver fork. 

Baked Potatoes 

Wash 4 medium sized potatoes and put in baking pan. 
Bake 35 minutes, or until soft. 

Creamed Fish in Baked Potatoes 

Cut the potatoes in halves lengthwise and scoop out 
the inside. Add the left over baked fish, picked m small 



20 DAILY LIVING 



pieces, and moisten with the left over butter gravy and 
season with salt. Refill the skins and bake about 5 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Ginger Cakes* Prepared November 3. 

Whipped Cream 

Beat y2 cup Hood's medium cream until thick, then 
sweeten and flavor to taste. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Refer to November 2. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Cover with cold water 3 cups of celery leaves with the 
outside stalks, left from the chicken salad, add Y^ onion 
and cook Y-z hour, or until tender, then press through a 
sieve. There should be i pint. Melt 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter, add 4 tablespoons flour and gradually i 
pint Hood's milk. Then add the celery stock and stir 
until thickened. Season with salt and pepper. 

Cannelon of Beef 

Pass 2 pounds of lean beef through the meat chopper. 
Add I teaspoon salt, few grains pepper, and a few drops 
onion juice. Then add i of Hood's eggs well beaten 
and Yi cup soft bread crumbs soaked in ^ cup Hood's 
milk. Mix thoroughly, and shape into a roll, pressing 
lightly. Place on pieces of salt pork in a baking pan, 
and bake about 30 minutes in a hot oven, basting often 
with the fat in the pan. 

Steamed Rice 

Put I cup of unwashed rice in top of double boiler, 
cover with a quantity of cold water and boil 5 minutes, 



HOOD'S MILK 21 

then drain and rinse thoroughly. Return to double 
boiler, add i teaspoon salt, i pint Hood's milk, scalded, 
and I cup of boiling water. Cook 40 minutes, or until 
rice is soft, adding more water if needed. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Reheat i pint of canned tomatoes, season with salt 
and pepper, and serve very hot. 

Apple Dumplings 

In preparing baking powder biscuits for luncheon, 
make a double recipe and roll out ^ of the recipe into 8 
rounds the size of a coffee saucer. Lay in the centre 
of each round i apple pared, cored, and cut in quarters. 
Fold over the dough to cover the apple and put in but- 
tered pan, having the smooth side on top. Bake in 
moderate oven about ^ hour, or until the apples are 
tender. Serve with 

Hard Sauce 

Cream % cup Hood's butter, add i cup brown sugar 
gradually, and, drop by drop, 2 tablespoons Hood's milk. 
Then add a few gratings nutmeg. 

November 5 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Coffee^ Refer to November i. 

Baked Sweet Apples* Refer to November I . 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

Add I cup Hood's milk, scalded, to >^ cup warm rice, 
prepared November 4, and let stand over night. Mix 
and sift ^ cup flour, % teaspoon salt, i >^ teaspoons 
baking powder; add the rice mixture gradually, i of 



22 DAILY LIVING 



Hood's eggs well beaten. Fry on hot well buttered 
griddle until well puffed, and cooked around the edges ; 
then turn and cook the other side. Remove from grid- 
dle, spread with Hood's butter and sprinkle with sugar. 

Emergency Soup 

Cook I onion finely chopped, i carrot and i small 
turnip cut in small pieces in ]^ cup Hood's butter 1 5 
minutes. Add i pint potatoes cut in small pieces ; 
cover and cook slowly 10 minutes. Add 3 cups boiling 
water and cook until the vegetables are soft, then add 
I cup Hood's milk, salt and pepper to taste. 

Croutons of Bread 

Spread stale bread with Hood's butter and cut in % 
inch slices ; remove the crusts and cut the slices into 
quarters. Put in pan, buttered side up, and brown in 
hot oven, turning once. 

Cheese and Jelly 

Cut Hood's cottage cheese into fourths and y^ tumbler 
of currant jelly into fourths. Serve the cheese and 
jelly together, accompanied with crackers. 

Sliced Cannelon of Beef 

Slice the beef prepared and left over from November 
4, and serve cold. 

Baked Potatoes 

Refer to November 4. 

Cabbage Scalloped With Cheese 

Cut ^ cabbage in pieces and boil in salted water 
until tender. Put in buttered baking dish ; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and yi cup Hood's full cream cheese 



HOOD'S MILK 23 



grated. Then add i cup of white sauce, prepared by 
melting 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, adding 2 table- 
spoons flour and gradually one cup Hood's milk. Cover 
with ^ cup rolled cracker crumbs moistened with 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter, melted. Reheat in hot oven. 

Cold Indian Pudding 

Scald I y^. cups Hood's milk with 2 y^. tablespoons 
Indian meal and cook in double boiler 10 minutes. Add 
y^ teaspoon salt and ^ cup molasses. Put in a but- 
tered dish, and set in a moderate oven. Then turn in i 
cup more of Hood's milk, cold, but do not stir in. Bake 
I y hours very slowly. Serve with Hood's light cream. 

November 6 

Wheat Cereal Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Creamed Codfish 

Cut in small pieces y cup salt codfish, soak lo min- 
utes in lukewarm water, then drain. Melt i y table- 
spoons Hood's butter, add i y tablespoons flour, then 
add gradually i cup Hood's milk. Add the codfish and 
I tablespoon more Hood's butter, and season with salt if 
necessary. 

Oyster Stew- 
Pick over I pint oysters, looking for pieces of shell, 
add y cup cold water ; bring slowly to the boiling point, 
and cook until plump and the edges begin to curl. 
Scald I pint Hood's milk ; put y teaspoon salt, few 
grains of pepper, and 2 tablespoons Hood's butter in 
tureen. Pour in oysters and milk and serve very hot 
with oyster crackers. 



24 DAILY LIVING 



Banana Fritters 

Sift together lys cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, }{ teaspoon salt. Beat i of Hood's eggs, add 
y/3 cup Hood's milk ; let stand i hour, then add 2 
bananas sliced thin. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat, 
fry, and drain on brown paper. Serve with 

Currant Jefly Sauce 

Boil % cup sugar and }( cup water together 4 minutes. 
Then pour onto ys cup currant jelly which has been 
beaten until soft with a silver fork. 

Boiled Fish 

Tie I j4 pounds halibut in a piece of cheese cloth, and 
put in gently boiling water to which has been added i ^ 
teaspoons each salt and vinegar. Boil gently 25 or 30 
minutes, until the fish is dry and flakes apart. Place on 
platter, remove the skin and serve with 

White Sauce 

Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 2 tablespoons 
flour, and gradually i cup Hood's milk. Add ^ at a 
time, and stir constantly until thickened and smooth 
before adding the next fourth. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Refer to November 3. 

Mashed Turnips 

Wash, pare, and cut 3 turnips in small pieces of uni- 
form size. Cook in boiling salted water until soft, then 
drain, mash, season with salt, and add i tablespoon 
Hood's butter. 



HOOD'S MILK 25 



Queen Pudding 

Beat the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs, add }^ cup sugar, 
}i teaspoon cinnamon, }^ teaspoon vanilla, and i pint 
Hood's milk. Pour over i cup fine bread crumbs and 
let stand about % an hour. Then bake until firm to 
the centre. Spread with ^ glass currant jelly, and cover 
with a meringue, made by beating the whites of the eggs 
stiff and beating in gradually }l cup sugar, then browning 
8 minutes in a moderate oven. 

November 7 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Rye Meal Muffins 

Substitute rye meal for graham flour in muffins given 
November 3 and proceed as for graham muffins. 

Fish Cakes 

Mash 4 potatoes, and add fish left over from Novem- 
ber 6, also any remaining white sauce, moisten with 
Hood's milk, and season with salt and pepper. Shape 
into flat round cakes, and brown in hot butter. 

Hot Biscuit 

Shape biscuit after bread has doubled in bulk. Let 
rise in pan until not quite doubled in bulk, and bake 
about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. One loaf of 
bread allows for 2 dozen biscuit. 

Lettuce and Apple Salad 

Wash, drain and wrap in a piece of cheese cloth the 
leaves of a head of lettuce When ready to use arrange 
the desired number of leaves in a salad dish. Pare. 



26 DAILY LIVING 



core, quarter, and cut in }i inch slices 2 apples. Ar- 
range on the lettuce leaves and pour over a 

French Dressing 

Mix ^ teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons oil, 2 tablespoons 
vinegar and stir until blended. 

Boston Baked Beans 

Pick over and soak over night i }4 pints of California 
pea beans. In the morning drain and rinse thoroughly 
and parboil until the skins burst, which may be deter- 
mined by taking up a few and blowing on them. Then 
drain and put into the bean pot. Wash, scrape, and gash 
the rind of }( pound salt pork, and place on top of beans, 
having the rind exposed above the beans, add ^ table- 
spoon salt, 2 tablespoons molasses, and }4 teaspoon soda ; 
then cover with hot water. Cook very slowly about 8 
hours, adding water as needed to keep the beans covered. 

Boston Brown Bread 

Mix and sift i cup each rye and Indian meal and i cup 
white flour with 2 ^ teaspoons soda and i teaspoon salt. 
Add }^ cup molasses and 2 cups of thick sour milk, or 
I }i cups Hood's sweet milk. Turn into buttered mould, 
and steam 3 hours ; then uncover and put in oven about 
10 minutes. 

Cabbage Salad 

Shred very fine the half cabbage left from November 
5, and let stand i hour in cold water; then drain very 
dry in a piece of cheese cloth. Mix with boiled dress- 
ing, left from November 2. Season with salt and 
mound on a salad dish. 

Baked Custards 

Beat 2 of Hood's eggs slightly ; add }( cup sugar, few 
grains salt and a few gratings nutmeg. Then add i }i 



HOOD'S MILK 27 



cups scalded milk. Turn into 4 custard cups and set in 
a pan of warm water. Bake in a moderate oven until 
firm, and, when tested, a silver knife will come out clean. 

November 8 

Fish Balls 

Cut in small pieces, using the scissors, i cup salt 
fish ; wash, pare, and cut in small pieces of uniform size 
2 heaping cups potatoes. Put fish and potatoes to- 
gether, cover with cold water, bring to the boiling point 
and boil until the potatoes are slightly underdone. Drain 
thoroughly, mash, season with salt if necessary, and add 
I of Hood's eggs unbeaten. Beat the mixture until 
very light, drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry until 
brown and drain on brown paper. Makes 10 fish balls. 

Coffee^ Refer to November i. 

Brown Bread Reheated* Refer to November i. 

Roast Chicken 

Singe, clean, stuff and truss a 4 pound chicken. 
Place on rack in dripping pan ; cover the breast with 
pieces of salt pork and fasten into place, using tooth 
picks. Place in hot oven, breast side up and sear over 
uniformly ; turn breast side down, reduce the heat, and 
add a little hot water to the pan. Baste every 10 min- 
utes, using first ^ cup Hood's butter melted in Yt, cup 
hot water, then finish basting with the fat in the pan. 
Dredge with flour after each basting. Roast 2 hours, 
or until the second joint separates easily from the body 
with a fork. 

Gravy 

Add 4 tablespoons flour to 4 tablespoons of the fat 
left in the pan. Brown well, then add gradually i ^ 
cups hot water. Boil 5 minutes, and season with salt. 



28 DAILY LIVING 



The giblets may be cooked in boiling water until soft, 
then cut in small pieces and added to the gravy. 

Stuffing 

Mix 2 cups soft bread crumbs, % cup Hood's butter 
melted in y?. cup hot water, i teaspoon poultry seasoning. 

Mashed Potatoes 
Refer to November i. 

Boiled Onions 

Peel I quart onions, keeping under cold water while 
peeling. Put in saucepan, cover with cold water, add 
^ teaspoon soda, bring to the boiling point, boil 5 
minutes, then drain, rinse, put in saucepan, cover with 
boiling water, and boil uncovered until soft, add i cup 
Hood's milk just before the onions have finished cooking. 
Drain, season with salt, and add 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter. 

Milk Sherbet 

Add the juice of 3 lemons and i quart of Hood's 
milk to I ^ cups sugar. The mixture may curdle, but 
will freeze smooth. Freeze, using 3 parts ice to i part 
coarse fine salt. Remove the dasher, repack, using 4 
parts ice to one part salt ; makes 2 quarts sherbet. 

Welsh Rarebit 

Melt I tablespoon Hood's butter, add i tablespoon 
flour and gradually ^ cup Hood's milk ; when thickened 
add I cup Hood's full cream cheese cut in small pieces. 
Stir until melted, then add the yolk of i of Hood's eggs, 
unbeaten, and the white beaten stiff; add ^ teaspoon 
each salt and mustard and few grains paprika. Serve 
on Uneeda biscuit. Make in the chafing dish, using hot 
water in the pan under the blazer. May be prepared in 
the double boiler. 



HOOD'S MILK 29 



November 9 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Cheese Croquettes 

Make a white sauce, using 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, 
Ys cup flour, yz cup Hood's milk. Add }^ teaspoon 
salt, paprika, yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs, ^2 cup Hood's 
full cream cheese grated, and i cup Hood's full cream 
cheese cut in small pieces^ Cool, shape, allowing i 
rounding tablespoon to each croquette, and roll into balls. 
Add 2 tablespoons cold water to the whites of the eggs. 
Dip in crumbs, prepared by drying the bread, then put- 
ting through the meat chopper. Then dip in the Qgg, 
then in crumbs again. Fry in deep fat and drain on 
brown paper. Serve with 

Dressed Lettuce 

Refer to November 7. Apple and lettuce salad, 
omitting the apple. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Baked Apples. Refer to November i. 

Bechamel Chicken 

Cut the chicken left from roast chicken November 8 
into small pieces, and season highly with salt, celery salt 
and paprika. Cover the bones with i pint cold water 
and cook slowly i hour, then strain, reserving ^ cup of 
the stock. Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 2 



30 DAILY LIVING 



tablespoons flour, then add the reserved chicken stock 
and Y^ cup Hood's milk ; when thickened add the cut 
chicken and let stand over hot water until ready to serve. 
Serve in a 

Potato Border 

Arrange the mashed potatoes left November 8 as a 
border around a platter. Brush over with Hood's milk 
and reheat in a hot oven. 

Lemon Custard Pie 

Cream 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add i cup sugar, 
2 tablespoons flour, grated rind and juice i lemon, yolks 
of 2 of Hood's eggs well beaten, i cup Hood's milk, then 
beat in the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. Bake in a 
deep plate lined with pastry. 

Pastry- 
Mix thoroughly with a knife Yz cup lard, Y teaspoon 
salt, 2 cups pastry flour, add cold water to form a stiff 
dough. Turn out on a board, and roll out an oblong 
piece about 8 by 6 inches, turn half around and lay in 
lower centre third Y ^up washed butter, shaped in a 
circular piece ; fold the upper half down over the lower 
half, and fold ^ over and ^ under the middle third, 
which holds the butter. Pat, roll out 3 times, folding in 
thirds after each rolling, and turn half way around after 
the folding. Use ^ for lining plate. 

November lO 

Oat Cereal 

Refer to November 4. 

White Muffins 

Substitute i cup white flour for graham in mufflns 
prepared November 3 and proceed as for graham mufflns. 



HOOD'S MILK 31 



Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Scrambled Eggs* Refer to November 4. 
Baked Bean Soup* Refer to November 3. 
Croutons of Bread* Refer to November 5 . 
Hot Indian Pudding* Refer to November 5. 
Boiled Fish. Refer to November 6. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Butter Gravy* Refer to November 3. 
Stewed Tomatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Steamed Pudding* Refer to November 2. 
Hot Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

November 11 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Scalloped Fish 

Separate into flakes the left over fish from November 
10, and arrange on a buttered platter with i cup white 
sauce, prepared -as on November 6. Cover with Y^. cup 
rolled cracker crumbs moistened with 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter, melted. Reheat in hot oven. 



32 DAILY LIVING 



Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 
Tea* Refer to November i. 

Butter Cake 

Cream % cup butter, add i cup sugar gradually, and 
continue beating ; then add 2 well beaten eggs, and beat 
the 3 ingredients together until very light, using the Qgg 
beater. Sift together i % cups flour with 2 ^ teaspoons 
baking powder, and add alternately with ^ cup milk to 
the first mixture. Add >^ teaspoon vanilla. Put in 
buttered pan and bake about 40 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Frost with 

Chocolate Frosting 

Melt I Yz squares chocolate, add 3 tablespoons hot 
water, and 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar, and cook, 
stirring constantly, until smooth and thick. Then add 
enough sugar to make of a consistency to spread. 

Scotch Broth 

Soak % cup pearl barley over night in cold water to 
cover. In the morning drain, add 2 quarts boiling water, 
and cook slowly i hour, stirring occasionally, add 2 pounds 
forequarter of lamb and cook i hour longer. Then add 
Y cup each turnip, carrot and onion cut in small pieces, 
and I cup canned tomato. Cook until the meat and 
vegetables are tender, adding more water as needed. 
Remove the meat ; take out the bone and cut the meat 
in small pieces. Put the meat in the broth, and season 
with salt and pepper. 

Bread and Butter 
Refer to November 2. 



HOOD'S MILK 33 



Apple Dumplings* Refer to November 4. 
Hard Sauce. Refer to November 4. 

November 12 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Toasted Bread 

Refer to November i. 

Turnip Cream Soup 

Add I quart Hood's milk scalded with i slice onion 
to I cup mashed turnip. Melt 3 tablespoons Hood's 
butter, add 3 tablespoons flour and gradually the milk, 
and season. 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit 

Prepare a double recipe of biscuit mixture November 
1 1 and bake ^ as biscuit. When ready to serve sprinkle 
with cold water, put in baking pan, cover with another 
pan, and reheat in hot oven. Serve with 

Jelly and Cheese 
Refer to November 5. 

Fricassee of Lamb 

Add I quart cold water to 2 pounds forequarter lamb, 
and simmer until the meat is tender, seasoning with salt, 
when partly cooked. Cut the meat in pieces for serving, 



34 DAILY LIVING 

then brown in Hood's butter in the frying pan. Add 
enough more Hood's butter to make 2 tablespoons, add 
4 tablespoons flour, and gradually i pint stock, season, and 
add to meat. 

Boiled Squash 

Cut up in small pieces about 2 pounds squash which 
has been peeled. Cook in boiling salted water until soft. 
Put through ricer, add salt, pepper, and 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter. 

Mashed Potatoes. Refer to November I. 
Preserved Quinces* Prepared November 3. 
Cake* Prepared November 1 1 . 

November 13 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 

Creamed Codfish. Refer to November 6. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Coffee Jelly and Cream* Refer to November 2. 

Cake* Prepared November 1 1 . 

Baked Haddock with Salt Pork 

Prepare fish as November 3, but do not stuff. Put 6 
slices of salt pork in baking pan, lay in fish and bake as 
fish November 3. 



HOOD'S MILK 35 



Baked Onions 

Prepare and parboil onions, as November 8 ; after the 
5 minute parboiling, drain, put in pan with fish, and bake 
fish and onions together about 40 minutes, or until fish 
is dry and flakes apart and onions are soft. Serve both 
with 

White Sauce. Refer to November 6. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Maine Gingerbread* Refer to November 3. 

November I4 

Oat Cereal 

Refer to November 4. 

Hashed Fish 

Flake the fish left November 13, and chop the left 
over potatoes fine. Season with salt and pepper. 
Moisten with any left over white sauce, and Hood's milk. 
Then reheat and brown in Hood's butter. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Lamb Cream Soup 

Prepare as white cream soup, November 2, using i 
pint lamb stock and i pint milk in place of chicken 
stock. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Ginger Cakes* Prepared November 12. 



36 DAILY LIVING 



Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7 

Boston Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Squash Pie 

Line the plate with pastry left November 9, and fill 
with I y^ cups hot mashed squash, mixed with i teaspoon 
Hood's butter, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, y^. cup sugar, i 
cup Hood's milk scalded, yolk of i of Hood's eggs, 
and the white beaten creamy, but not stiff. Bake about 
40 minutes in a moderate oven. 

November 15 

Reheated Beans. Refer to November I . 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Doughnuts 

Put 3 cups pastry flour, i cup sugar in a shallow pan. 
Sift in I teaspoon salt and 4 teaspoons baking powder. 
Beat the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs, add i cup Hood's 
milk and stir into the dry ingredients ; add few gratings 
nutmeg and 34^ teaspoon cinnamon. Mix well, turn out 
on a board dredged with bread flour, roll out, shape with 
a doughnut cutter, fry in deep fat and drain. 

Fricassee of Chicken 

Prepare and boil a 5 pound fowl as fowl Southern 
style, November i. Then fry in Hood's butter. Re- 
move to serving dish and arrange on slices of toasted 
bread. Pour over a gravy prepared as in fricassee of 
lamb, November 12. Serve with a border of steamed 
rice. Refer to November 4. 



HOOD'S MILK 37 



Vanilla Ice Cream* Refer to November I . 
Baked Sweet Apples* Refer to November I . 
Tea* Refer to November i . 
Bread and Butter. Refer to November I. 

November 16 

Wheat Cereal. Refer to November 2. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Scrambled Eggs* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
White Cream Soup* Refer to November 2. 
Croutons of Bread* Refer to November 5 . 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 
Doughnuts* Prepared Novembr 15. 

Rice Croquettes 

Add I of Hood's eggs unbeaten to i ^^ cups warm 
rice left from November 15. Let stand until cool and 
ready to use; then shape, egg and crumb, as cheese 
croquettes, refer to November 9, using whites of the 2 
eggs left from the doughnuts. Fry in deep fat and 
drain on brown paper. 

Chicken and Celery Creamed 

Prepare white sauce, refer to November 6, and add 
the chicken cut in small pieces left from fricassee 



38 DAILY LIVING 



chicken, and i cup of left over celery, which has been 
cut in small pieces and cooked in boihng salted water 
until soft. Reheat and season with salt and pepper. 

Bread and Butten Refer to November 2. 
Queen Pudding* Refer to November 6. 

November 17 

Oat Cereal. 

Refer to November 4. 

White Muffins 

Use I cup pastry flour in place of graham flour, and 
prepare as graham muffins, refer to November 3. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Codfish. Refer to November 6. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Baked Bean Cream Soup 

Use I cup Hood's milk in place of tomato and pre- 
pare as baked bean soup, refer to November 3. 

Hot Biscuit 

Refer to November 7. 

Stewed Figs 

Wipe ^ pound figs, and cook with i cup water and 
}^ cup sugar until tender. Add the juice of i lemon. 
Cool and serve with 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Tea* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 39 



Boiled Fish* Refer to November 6. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Dressed Lettuce. Refer to November 9. 
Bread and Butter* Refer to November 2 . 
Banana Fritters* Refer to November 6. 
Currant Jelly Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

November 18 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 

Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Doughnuts* Prepared November 15. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Scalloped Fish* Refer to November 1 1 . 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Lettuce and Apple Salad* Refer to November 7. 

Stuffed Rolled Roast 

Wipe 2 pounds steak cut from the round, % inch in 
thickness. Spread with a stuffing prepared with i ^ 
cups cracker crumbs, % cup Hood's butter, melted, yi 
cup boiUng water, salt, pepper, sage. Roll, fasten, and 
bake 45 minutes. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Refer to November i . 



40 DAILY LIVING 



Mashed Turnips^ Refer to November 6. 

Canned Peaches and Cream 

Serve i pint jar of peaches with ^ cup of Hood's 
medium cream. 

Butter Cake. Refer to November 1 1 . 

Chocolate Frosting. Refer to November 1 1 . 

November 19 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Rye Meal Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Potato Salad 

Cut in cubes 3 cups cold boiled potatoes, season with 
salt and onion juice, and moisten with ;^ the recipe of 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 

Toasted Rye Muffins* Refer to November 3. 

Cake* Prepared November 18. 

Tea* Refer to November i. 

Cold Stuffed Roast* Prepared November 18. 

Bread and Butter* Refer to November 2. 

Cabbage Scalloped With Cheese 
Refer to November 5. 



HOOD'S MILK 41 



Jelly and Cheese 

Refer to November 5. 

November 20 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Turnip Cream Soup* Refer to November 12. 
Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 
Cake. Prepared November 18. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 

Baked Finnan Haddie 

Soak a 3 pound finnan haddie in a baking pan, using 
I cup each cold water and Hood's milk, for ^ hour. 
Drain, dot with i tablespoon Hood's butter, and bake 
about ^ hour in a hot oven. Remove to platter. 

Baked Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 

Add Yt, cup raisins and ^ cup currants to creamed 

butter, and proceed as steamed pudding. Refer to 
November 2. 

Hot Custard Sauce 

Refer to November 2. 



42 DAILY LIVING 



November 21 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Coffee^ Refer to November i . 

Creamed Finnan Haddie 

Separate in small pieces the finnan haddie left Novem- 
ber 20, and reheat in 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Roasted Pork Chops 

Wipe I y2, pounds pork chops, put in baking pan, and 
roast in hot oven about % hour, turning once. 

Apple Rings 

Beginning with the stem end, cut 3 unpared apples in 
slices, then remove the core from each one. After the 
pork chops have been cooking lO minutes lay oi? the 
pork the apple rings and cook the two together. 

Baked Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 

Coffee Jelly. Refer to November 2. 
Baked Beans Refer to November 7. 
Boston Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 
Cabbage Salad* Refer to November 7. 
Baked Custard* Refer to November 7. 



November 22 

Fish Balls* Refer to November 8. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 43 



Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Roast Lamb 

Skin a 6 pound leg of lamb, rub over with salt, and 
dredge with flour. Place on rack in baking pan, and 
roast 1 5 minutes to the pound, and an extra i 5 minutes 
for the meat to heat through. Baste every lo minutes, 
with the fat in the pan. 

Roast Potatoes 

Pare small potatoes of uniform size, and parboil lO 
minutes in boiling salted water. Drain, and cook in 
pan with lamb about 40 minutes. Baste the potatoes 
with the fat when basting the meat. 

Cauliflower* Refer to November i. 

Milk Sherbet* Refer to November 8. 

Sugar Cookies* Refer to November i . 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 

November 23 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Turnip Cream Soup* Refer to November 12. 
Croutons of Bread* Refer to November 5. 



44 DAILY LIVING 



Stewed Figs. Refer to November 17. 
Whipped Cream. Refer to November 4. 
Sugar Cookies^ Prepared November 22. 
Cold Roast Lamb* Prepared November 22. 

Cauliflower Scalloped with Cheese 

Refer to cabbage scalloped with cheese, November 5. 

Banana Fritters. Refer to November 6. 
Currant Jelly Sauce. Refer to November 6. 

November 24 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
White Muffins* Refer to November 17. 
Eggs Scrambled with Tomatoes 

Refer to November 3, 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 
Cheese Croquettes* Refer to November 9. 
Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 
Sugar Cookies. Prepared November 22. 

Lamb and Potato Stew 

Cut the lamb, remaining from the roast lamb, from 
bone. Put in casserole, or heavy earthen baking dish ; 
add 4 potatoes cut in cubes and i small onion cut fine. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 



HOOD'S MILK 45 

add cold water to cover the meat and potato. Put a 
cover on the dish, set in the oven, and cook below the 
boiling point 4 hours ; add more water to cover meat 
and potato, if necessary. 

Coffee Jelly* Refer to November 2. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

November 25 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Baked Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish. Refer to November 6. 
Emergency Soup* Refer to November 5. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Cheese and Jelly. Refer to November 5 . 

Baked Fillets of Halibut 

Separate the skin and bone from i pound of halibut, 
and cut in pieces of uniform size to prepare the fillets. 
Roll and fasten with a toothpick. Melt 2 tablespoons 
butter, add the juice of ^ lemon and ^ teaspoon salt 
and dip in the fillets of fish. Put in baking dish, pour 
over any remaining butter, and bake about 12 minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve with 

Butter Gravy 

To which has been added the juice of ^ lemon. 
Refer to November 3. 



46 DAILY LIVING 



Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Lettuce^ and Apple Salad* Refer to November 7. 

November 26, 

Chicken Fricassee* Refer to November 1 5 . 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Mince Pie 

Prepare pastry, refer to November 9, and line a 
shallow plate. Fill in i pint of mince meat, cover with 
the pastry, and prick the upper crust with a fork. Bake 
about 40 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mince Meat 

Cover I ^ pounds lower part of the round and Y^, 
pound suet with 2 quarts water and cook until the suet 
has melted and the meat is tender. Remove the meat 
and put through the meat chopper, then measure, and 
put in an 8 quart saucepan with strained stock. Add 
twice the amount of apples finely chopped in the chop- 
ping tray, then add i Yo, pounds brown sugar, i cup 
molasses, i quart vinegar, 2 pounds seeded raisins, ^ 
tablespoon each cinnamon, mace, and ground clove, i 
grated nutmeg, and salt to taste. Bring to the boiling 
point, and cook slowly 4 hours, stirring occasionally. 
Add more water as needed to keep the mixture very 
moist. Cool, bottle, but it is not necessary to seal. 
Should make about 8 quarts. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 47 



Tomato Bouillon 

Fry ^ small onion and i slice carrot in i tablespoon 
butter, add a bit of bay leaf and one pint of canned 
tomatoes. Simmer lo minutes, then strain, and add i 
pint chicken stock, seasoning as needed. Then clear, 
allowing the white and shell of i egg. 

Clearing Soup Stock 

Add the white and shell of i egg to i quart soup 
stock to be cleared. Stir constantly until the boiling 
point is reached ; then boil 5 minutes without stirring. 
Add ^2 cup cold water, and let stand 5 minutes without 
boiling, then strain through cheese cloth placed over a 
fine strainer. 

Roast Turkey ' 

Roast an 8 pound turkey 3 hours, using double the 
amount of stuffing prepared for roast chicken. Refer to 
November 8. 

Stuffing, Refer to November 8. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Mashed Potatoes, Refer to November I. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Boiled Squash* Refer to November 12. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Pick over and rinse i quart cranberries, add i cup 
water and i yi cups sugar. Bring to the boiling point, 
and boil 10 minutes without stirring. Then turn into 
a serving dish and cool. 



48 DAILY LIVING 

Grape Sherbet 

Cook 20 minutes i quart water and i pint sugar ; add 
I pint grape juice and the juice of 2 lemons. Freeze, 
using 2 parts ice to i part coarse fine salt. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding* Refer to November 20. 

Whipped Cream Sauce 

Add the yolk of i of Hood's eggs to >^ cup of pow- 
dered sugar. Just before serving beat ^ cup of Hood's 
heavy cream until stiff and fold into the first mixture, 
add ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Welsh Rarebit* Refer to November 8. 

November 27 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Cream of Celery Soup* Refer to November 4. 
Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee Jelly* Refer to November 2. 
Baked Haddock* Refer to November 13. 
Baked Onions* Refer to November 13. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
White Sauce. Refer to November 6. 
Mince Pie* Refer to November 26. 



HOOD'S MILK 49 



November 28 

Wheat Cereals Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit 

Refer to November 12. 

Hashed Fish 

Refer to November 14. 

Bechamel Turkey 

Cut enough cold slices into pieces for serving at 
dinner and garnish with left over stuffing from the tur- 
key November 26. The remaining prepare as Bechamel 
chicken. Refer to November 9. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Queen Pudding* Refer to November 6. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Boston Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Squash Pie* Refer to November 14. 

November 29 

Reheated Beans* Refer to November i . 
Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Cold Sliced Turkey* Prepared November 26. 
Mashed Potatoes. Refer to November i. 



50 DAILY LIVING 

Reheated Gravy* Prepared November 26. 

Cranberry Sauce* Prepared November 26. 

Vanilla Ice Cream* Refer to November i . 

Chocolate Sauce* Refer to November i . 

Toast* Refer to November i . 

Tea* Refer to November i . 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 

November 30 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

White Muffins* Refer to November 17. 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Baked Beans. Refer to November i . 

Cabbage Salad* Refer to November 7. 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 

Hot Gingerbread* Refer to November 3. 

Meat Loaf* Refer to November 5, cannelon of beef. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 

Boiled Squash* Refer to November 12. 

Mince Pie* Refer to November 26. 



HOOD'S MILK 



51 



Cost of I^ivii\g for November 

November IS November 8-15 



2% lbs. butter ^i 

13 qts. milk I 

1 y2 doz. eggs 

9 half pint jars light cream . . . 
Jar medium cream, ^ pt. . . . 

% lb. cheese 

Flour 

Sugar 

Tea 

Coffee at 35 cts. a lb 

5 lbs. fowl 

Beans 

Pork 

2 yeast cakes 

3 lbs. cabbage 

Medium cauliflower 

Apples 

Potatoes 

Graham flour 

Indian and rye meal 

Molasses and vinegar 

Oil 

Spices and salt 

Haddock 

Baking powder 

Halibut 

Beef 

Salt fish 

Quinces and currant jelly. 

Tomatoes 

Cereal 

Vanilla 

Chocolate 

Rice 

Crackers 

Oysters 

6 bananas 

Turnips 

Cottage cheese 

Gelatin 



10 

i? 
.76 

•63 
.10 
.11 

.20 
.18 

.05 
.28 

•75 
.08 
.06 
.04 
.09 

•15 
.10 

.ID 
.02 

•03 
.07 

•05 
.02 

.28 

•05 
•30 

•05 
.20 

•03 
.08 

•05 
.02 
.02 
.08 
.20 
.10 
.04 

.02 



Total for i week. . . .S8.01 



2j4 lbs. butter ^i 

13 qts. milk i 

1% doz. eggs 

7 half pint jars light cream. . . 
Jar medium cream, ^ pt , . . . 

}4. lb. cheese 

Flour 

Sugar 

Tea 

Coffee . 

4 lbs. lamb 

Beans 

Pork 

2 yeast cakes 

3 pts. onions 

3 lbs. squash 

Apples 

Potatoes 

Graham flour 

Indian and rye meal 

Molasses and vinegar 

Oil 

Spices and salt 

Haddock 

Baking powder 

4 lbs. forequarter lamb. . . 

Halibut 

Salt Fish 

Quinces and jelly 

Tomatoes 

Cereal 

Vanilla 

Chocolate 

Crackers 

Cottage cheese 

Gelatin 

Ketchup 

Vegetables 

Lettuce 

Bananas 

Lemons 



10 

17 
.76 

•49 
.10 

.11 

.20 
.18 

•05 
.28 
.60 
.08 
.06 
.04 
.08 
.09 
.10 
.10 
.02 

•03 
.07 
.05 
.02 
.28 

•05 
.40 

•30 
.05 
.20 

•03 
.07 

•03 
.01 
.08 
.05 
.02 
.04 

•05 
.08 
.10 
.08 



Total for i week 



J7.70 



52 



DAILY LIVING 



November 15 '22 

2}4 lbs. butter ^i.io 

13 qts. milk 1.17 

i^ doz. eggs 76 

9 half pint jars light cream. .63 

Jar medium cream,^ pt 10 

}4 lb. cheese 11 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Tea 05 

Coffee at 35 cts, a lb 28 

5 lbs. fowl 75 

Beans 08 

Pork 06 

2 yeast cakes 04 

3 lbs. cabbage 09 

Celery 10 

Apples 10 

Potatoes 10 

Graham flour 02 

Indian and rye meal 03 

Molasses and vinegar 07 

Oil 05 

Spices and salt 02 

Finnan haddie 15 

Baking powder 05 

Halibut 30 

Beef 3c 

Salt fish 05 

Peaches and currant jelly. . .20 

Tomatoes 03 

Cereal 08 

Vanilla 05 

Raisins 03 

Rice 02 

Crackers 08 

Oysters 20 

6 bananas 10 

Turnips 04 

Cottage cheese 05 

Gelatin 02 

1)4 lbs. pork chops 24 

Total for i week $8.04 



November 22-30 

2^ lbs. butter $1.10 

I doz. eggs 55 

I jar medium cream, ^ pt 10 

1 jar heavy cream, ^ pt 15 

7 half pint jars light cream. . . .50 

Salt fish 05 

Coffee 32 

12 qts. milk 1.08 

2 yeast cakes 04 

6 bananas 10 

Potatoes 10 

Apples 05 

Beans 08 

Pork 04 

Lemons 06 

Celery 10 

Meal 03 

Graham flour 02 

Figs 08 

Cauliflower 15 

5 lbs. roast lamb 70 

Cereal 08 

^2 lb. cheese 11 

Currant jelly 10 

Mince meat for 3 pies 15 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Gelatin 02 

Lettuce. 08 

Cottage cheese. 05 

Crackers 10 

I lb. halibut 20 

3 lbs. fowl 45 

Tomatoes 03 

8 lbs. turkey 2.00 

Squash 09 

Onions 08 

Cranberries 10 

Haddock 28 

4 oranges 08 

Vanilla 05 

Chocolate 02 

j4. cabbage 04 

^ meat loaf 15 

Total ^9.98 



Making total for month ^33.71 



HOOD'S MILK 



53 



L'OMrerifig tKe Cost 



November 1-8 

Omit 7 jars light cream $0.49 

Chocolate sauce 05 

Jar medium cream 10 

Omit grapes, quinces, bana- 
nas, currant jelly, banana 

fritters .58 

Using apples 10 

Substitute 4 lbs. forequarter 
lamb, 40 cts., for fowl, 75 
cts., omitting i qt. milk, 

9 cts ... 44 

Substitute cabbage, 9 cts,, for 

cauliflower 15 

Omit eggs for breakfast and 
I in banana fritters, use 
potatoes for breakfast, 

lowering 26 

Substitute turnip soup for 

oyster stew 18 



52.25 



November 8-15 



7 half pint jars light cream 

6 eggs, using potatoes 

Lettuce 

Oil 

Coffee 

Quinces, jelly, bananas, 40 
cts., substitute apples, 
10 cts 



.$0.49 

25 



08 

28 



•30 



#145 



November IS "22 

Omit 7 jars light cream J^o.49 

}4 doz. eggs, 26 cents, sub- 
stituting potatoes, 2 cents .24 
4 lbs. forequarter lamb for 

fowl, omitting i qt. milk .44 

Jar medium cream 10 

Baked apples for figs 03 



1551.30 



November 22-30 

Omit 7 jars light cream $0.49 

Medium cream 10 

Celery .10 

Lettuce 08 

3 lbs. fowl 45 

Tomato bouillon 06 

Oranges 08 

Cottage cheese 05 

;?i.4i 

Total for month $641 



54 DAILY LIVING 



Memoranda 



Month of December 




I- 

UJ 

O 
D 
OQ 

Z 
LU 

< 

o 



UJ 

I 



Composition and Combination of 

Food 



In making out the menus for daily living I have been 
careful not to serv^e entirely the proteid, or starch, or fat 
in one meal, as all are required to make the perfect meal. 
After careful observation I have decided that one of the 
failures in the daily diet is the eating of too much pro- 
teid ; another is the drinking of too little water. While 
water enters largely into the composition of all food yet 
a proportion is lost during the preparation, so that we 
require more than is found in the prepared food. 

I have planned that everything used shall be in sea- 
son, since then everything is at its best, also lower in 
cost. It is poor economy to buy any but fresh eggs, as, 
with keeping, they lose in food value. Over ripe fruit 
has lost in value. The cheaper cuts of meat hold as 
much nourishment as the more expensive, provided they 
are properly cooked. 

In combining the recipes care has been taken not to 
have too many flavors appear in the same meal. 

In planning the menu, I have worked around the 
principal dish, or, using some left over, have worked from 
that ; if the principal dish is light, I have added some- 
thing like a cream soup or a heavy dessert. 

If one recipe has been used in which the expense is 
heavier, I have planned that the other recipes shall 
balance lower in cost. 

57 



58 DAILY LIVING 

One of the features in the reduction in the cost of the 
Hving has been the use of the left overs ; planning that 
nothing be wasted. While this may increase the work 
of the housekeeper, yet the result is often more sat- 
isfactory than with the first prepared food, since it 
shows to the family that care has been taken in the 
arrangement. 



HOOD'S MILK 59 



December I 

BreaRfast 



Wheat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes 

Corn Cake Coffee 

LtiiicKeon or Supper 

Cream of Onion Soup Ginger Cakes 

Whipped Cream 

Dinner 

Sliced Meat Loaf Baked Potatoes 

Scalloped Cabbage Orange Salad 

French Dressing Bread and Butter 



December 2 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs Coffee 

LftincHeon or Supper 

Potato Salad Bread and Butter 

Baked Apples Sugar Cookies 

Dinner 

Chicken Pie Dressed Lettuce 

Baldwin Pudding Whipped Cream 



December 3 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Oven Broiled Bacon 

Baked Potatoes Coffee 

LuncKeon or Stipper 

White Cream Soup Toasted Bread 

Preser^'ed Quinces 

Chicken and Potato Creamed Cheese Sandwiches 

Stuffed Olives Cold Indian Pudding 



6o DAILY LIVING 

December 4 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Baked Apples 

Creamed Potatoes Toasted Bread Coffee 

LruncHeon or Supper 

Rice with Cheese Stewed Prunes 

Sugar Cookies 

Dinner 

Fish Chowder Pickles Mince Pie 



December 5 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread 

Omelet V/hite Sauce Coffee 

LftincHeon or Supper 

Scalloped Fish Hot Biscuit 

Jellied Prunes 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Pickled Red Cabbage Pumpkin Pie 



December 6 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Baked Apples Coffee 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Mashed Potatoes 

Caramel Ice Cream 

Tea 

Tomato Rarebit Crackers Caramel Ice Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 6i 



December 7 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

I^uncKeon or Stipper 

Baked Bean Cream Soup 

Toasted Bread Orange Jelly 

Dinner 

Cold Pot Roast Potato Croquettes Celery 

French Apple Dumplings Hard Sauce 



December 8 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

Ltinclieon or Supper 

Orange and Celery Salad Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Hot Biscuit Canned Pears 

Dinner 

Reheated Beef Boiled Potatoes 

Mashed Turnips 

Cream Cheese and Jelly Crackers 



December 9 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Corn Cake Coffee 

LtincHeon or Supper 

Macaroni with Cheese 
Chocolate Cake Canned Peaches 

Dinner 

Baked Halibut White Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Dressed Lettuce Fruit Trifle 



62 DAILY LIVING 



December 10 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Toasted Bread with White Sauce 

I^tincKeon or Stipper 

Halibut Rarebit Crackers 

Baked Apples Chocolate Cake 

Dinner 

Tomato Cream Soup Bread and Butter 

Potatoes Baked with Cheese 

Steamed Fruit Pudding Whipped Cream 



December U 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^uncHeon 

Corn Chowder Bread and Fruit Mould 

Dinner 

Scalloped Oysters Pickles Bread and Butter 

Chocolate Cake Stewed Figs 



December 12 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Oven Broiled Bacon Baked Sweet Potatoes 

I^uncKeon or Dinner 

Breaded Pork Chops Tomato Sauce 

Baked Potatoes Hot Apple Sauce Hot Biscuit 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Pickled Red Cabbage Baked Custards 



HOOD'S MILK 



63 



December 13 



Reheated Beans 

Coffee 

Fowl Southern Style 
Boiled Onions 



BreaRfast 



Dinner 



Tea 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches 



Reheated Brown Bread 
Oranges 

Mashed Potatoes 
Charlotte Russe 

Cocoa 



December J 4 



BreaKfast 

W^heat Cereal Reheated Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

I^tincHeon 

Chicken Bechamel Potato Border 

Orange Short Cake with Whipped Cream 



Meat Pie 



Dinner 

Pickles 



Rice Pudding 



December 15 



Oat Cereal 



Omelet 



Hygienic Soup 
Coffee Jelly 



BreaRfast 

Toasted Bread 
White Sauce Coffee 



I^tincKeQn 



Dinner 



Halibut Baked with Cheese 
Dressed Lettuce 



Hot Biscuit 
Molasses Cookies 

Baked Potatoes 
Indian Pudding 



64 DAILY LIVING 

December \6 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Corn Muffins 

Oven Broiled Bacon Coffee 

LrXincHeon or Supper 

Halibut Rarebit Crackers 

Preserved Quinces Molasses Cookies 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Lamb Creamed Turnips 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes Rice Pudding 



December 17 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread 

Sweet Potato Cakes Coffee 

LrtincKeon or Stipper 

Scalloped Potatoes Baking Powder Biscuit 

Maine Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Scotch Broth Apple Dumplings Hard Sauce 



December 18 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Codfish Coffee 

I^uncKeon or Supper 

Lamb Cream Soup Cheese Sandwiches 

Ginger Cakes Whipped Cream 

Dinner 

Baked Fillet of Haddock Oyster Stuffing 

White Sauce Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Chocolate Bread Pudding Medium Cream Dressed Lettuce 



HOOD'S MILK 65 



December 19 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes Coffee 

LtmcKeoii or Dinner 

Fish Croquettes Hot Biscuit Tapioca Cream 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Pickles Squash Pie 



December 20 

BreaKfast 

Baked Sausage with Baked Bananas 
Reheated Brown Bread Coffee 

Dinner 

Fricassee Chicken Mashed Potatoes Boiled Squash 

Blushing Apples Whipped Cream 

Tea 

Cocoa Toast Currant Jelly 



December 2\ 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Reheated Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

White Cream Soup Croutons of Bread 

Banana Fritters Currant Jelly Sauce 

Dinner 

Chicken Stew with Dumplings Apple Cream Puffs 



66 DAILY LIVING 



December 22 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Graham Muffins Baked Apples 

I^tincHeon or Stipper 

Baked Bean Cream Soup 
Hot Biscuit Cottage Cheese Currant Jelly 

Dinner 

Meat Balls Tomato Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Mashed Turnips Jellied Prunes 



December 23 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Potato Cakes Toasted Bread 

I^tii\cKeoi\ or Supper 

Cream of Onion Soup 

Crisp Crackers Spice Cakes 

Baked Apples and Light Cream 

Dinner 

Steamed Halibut White Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Dressed Lettuce 

Apple Dumplings Hard Sauce 



December 24 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread Coffee 

Oven Broiled Bacon Hashed Brown Potatoes 

L'U.ncHeon or Supper 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit 
Spice Cake with Chocolate Frosting Coffee Jelly 

Dinner 

Scalloped Fish Bread and Butter 

Pickles Mince Pie 



HOOD'S MILK 67 



December 25 Christmas 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Toasted Bread Coffee Oranges 

Dinner 

Tomato Soup Roast Goose Potato Stuffing 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes Boiled Onions 

Apple Sauce Cranberry Punch 

Christmas Plum Pudding Whipped Cream 

Tea 

Christmas Salad Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Nuts and Raisins 



December 26 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Sweet Potatoes Broiled 

Toasted Bread Coffee Baked Apples 

Diimer or LuncKeon 

Scalloped Potatoes Hot Biscuit Tarts 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Kidney Beans Brown Bread 

Squash Pie Chili Sauce 



December 27 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Beans Brown Bread 

Coffee Oranges 

Dinner 

Reheated Goose Steamed Rice Stewed Prunes 

Walnut Ice Cream 

Tea 

Milk Toast Tea 

Spice Cake with Chocolate Frosting 



68 DAILY LIVING 

December 28 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Rice Griddle Cakes Coffee 

I^uiiiclieon or Supper 

Squash Soup Crisp Crackers 

Sliced Oranges 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Goose with Spanish Sauce 

Potato Croquettes Bread and Butter 

Baked Apples and Light Cream 



December 29 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Toasted Brown Bread with White Sauce 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Kidney Bean Salad Boiled Dressing 

Hot Biscuit Prune Souffle 

Dinner 

English Beef Soup Bread and Butter Orange Jelly 



December 30 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread 

Creamed Codfish Coffee 

L'tincHeon or Supper 

Stewed Lima Beans Baking Powder Biscuit 

Cottage Cheese Currant Jelly 

Dinner 

Baked Finnan Haddie Baked Potatoes 

Stewed Tomatoes Apple Dumplings Molasses Sauce 



HOOD'S MILK 69 



December 31 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Scrambled Eggs Toasted Bread 

L-uncKeon or Supper 

Turnip Cream Soup Croutons of Bread 

Hot Apple Sauce 

Dinner 

Reheated Finnan Haddie Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Tomato Jelly Salad Bread and Butter Boiled Dressing 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" Cream consists essentially of the fat of milk. It would be a 
mistake, however, to suppose that it consists of that alone. It 
contains in addition proteid and sugar in fully as high proportion 
as milk itself. The real difference, indeed, between milk and 
cream is that in the latter some of the water of the milk has been 
replaced by fat. 

" The exact amount of fat in cream varies very much, the differ- 
ences depending to a large extent on the method by which the 
cream has been separated. In cream produced by a centrifuge 
the proportion of fat may amount to 65 per cent, while in ordinary 
cream, obtained by skimming, it may be merely 20 per cent, or 
less. ... In a physiological sense cream is chiefly to be 
regarded as a fuel food. It has been calculated that a pint of it 
should yield about 1,425 calories, or about as much as i % pounds 
of bread, or i^ dozen bananas, or 4^ pounds of potatoes. 

"In sick room feeding it is an important aid in getting fat into 
the diet, for it is very easily digested. Good cream contains as 
much fat as a similar quantity of most cod liver oil emulsions, and 
is usually much better borne. A gill of it per day is a not un- 
common prescription. 

"Robert Hutchinson, M.D., Edin., F.R.C.P., 

^^ Assistant Physician to the London Hospital and to the Hospital for Sick 
Children, Great Or)nand Street?' 



70 



DAILY LIVING 



Food Composition 





Water 


Proteid 


Fats 


Carbohy- 
drates 


Mineral 


Beefsteak 


744 


20.5 


3-5 




1.6 


White Fish 


78 


18.1 


2.9 




I 


Poultry 


74 


21 


3-8 




1. 12 


Wheat in Bread 


40 


8 


1-5 


49-2 


1-3 


Oatmeal 


15 


12,6 


s.(^ 


63 


3 


Macaroni 


I3-I 


9 


0-3 


76.8 


I 


Butter 


6 


0-3 


91 




2.7 


Potatoes 


74 


2 


.16 


21 


I 


Hood's Milk 


87.02 


3-27 


4.10 


4.91 


•7 


Hood's Cream 








2.8 




Sugar 


3 






96.5 




Bananas 




14-3 


.8 - 


4 




Cherries 




15. 1 








Clams 




5 




I.I 




Grapes 




I.I 




14.1 




Lettuce 


96 










HaUbut 


61.9 


15. 1 


2 


4.4 




Chicken 


48.5 


14.8 


I.I 


.8 




Cheese 


30 


31-34 




2.8 




Olive oil 






93 






Stock 


largely 
water 


small % 








Spinach 


80 






2.5 




Eggs 


73-5 


13-15 


11.6 




I 


Apples 


84.6 






2.2 





HOOD'S MILK 71 

December 1 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Corn Cake. 

Mix and sift i cup each corn meal and flour, 3 table- 
spoons sugar, 4 teaspoons baking powder, and % tea- 
spoon salt. Add I cup Hood's milk to i of Hood's 
eggs well beaten, and add gradually to the dry ingre- 
dients. Bake in a buttered pan in a hot oven about 20 
minutes. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Cream of Onion Soup 

Cook 3 medium onions in i pint of water until tender, 
adding more water, if necessary, to keep onions covered. 
Then rub through a strainer. Melt 3 tablespoons 
Hood's butter, add 3 tablespoons flour, the onion pulp, 
and gradually i quart Hood's milk. Season with salt 
and pepper. 

Ginger Cakes» Prepared November 30. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Sliced Meat Loaf* Prepared November 30 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Scalloped Cabbage* Refer to November 5. 

Orange Salad 

Remove the peel from 4 oranges in quarters, then 
cut the oranges into small pieces, mix well with French 



72 DAILY LIVING 

dressing, omitting the pepper, and add i teaspoon pow- 
dered sugar. Arrange on a bed of shredded lettuce. 

French Dressing 

Refer to November 7. 

December 2 

Oat Cereal, Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Beat the yolks of 3 of Hood's eggs until thick, add Yz 
cup Hood's milk, % teaspoon salt, and few grains 
pepper. Then fold in the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Cook as scrambled eggs November 4. 

Potato Salad. Refer to November 19. 
Baked Apples. Refer to November i. 
Sugar Cookies. Refer to November i. 

Chicken Pie 

Cook a five pound fowl as fowl Southern style, 
November i. When tender remove from the stock, and 
arrange in a baking dish, reserving enough to cut in 
small pieces making i >^ cups. Add to the fowl in the 
dish I small onion cut in small pieces, 4 cold boiled 
potatoes sliced, and i pint of the stock thickened with 4 
tablespoons flour diluted with cold water to pour. 
Season with salt and pepper. Cover with a crust pre- 
pared as baking powder biscuit, November 2. Bake 
about I hour in a moderate oven. 

Dressed Lettuce 

Refer to November 9. 



HOOD'S MILK 73 



Baldwin Pudding 

Mix I Yri cups soft bread crumbs with ^ cup Hood's 
butter, melted. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with 
crumbs, then add 2 apples sliced ; sprinkle with yi cup 
sugar and a slight grating of nutmeg ; then crumbs 
again and repeat, having 2 layers of apples and 3 of 
crumbs. Bake about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 
Serve with 

Whipped Cream 

Refer to November 4. 

December 3 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Oven Broiled Bacon 

Put ^ pound of bacon on a broiler and cook over a 
dripping pan in a hot oven until delicately browned. 

Baked Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

White Cream Soup. Refer to November 2. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i . 

Quinces and Light Cream. Refer to November 3. 

Chicken and Potatoes Creamed 

Melt 4 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 4 tablespoons 
flour, and when blended add gradually 2 cups stock in 
which chicken was cooked. When thickened add i>^ 
cups chicken prepared December 2, and 4 potatoes cold 
boiled and cut in cubes. Season with salt and pepper. 
May be prepared on the table in the chafing dish. 



74 DAILY LIVING 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Cut bread in thin slices, and spread with Hood's 
butter, lay on ^ slice slices of Hood's full cream cheese 
cut thin ; cover with other half slice ; brush with Hood's 
butter, melted, and brown in a hot oven. 

Indian Pudding 

Refer to November 5. / 

December 4 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 
Creamed Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i . 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
Rice with Cheese 

Cover i^ cup rice with cold water, let boil 5 minutes, 
then drain and rinse. Melt i tablespoon Hood's butter, 
add the rice, i cup canned tomato, and ^ cup water. 
Let cook about 45 minutes, or until the rice is tender, 
adding more water if necessary. Then add ^3 cup 
Hood's full cream cheese, grated, ^ teaspoon salt, and 
serve very hot. 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash I pound prunes, and soak in cold water over 
night. In the morning bring to the boiling point in the 
same water, then simmer, without boiling, 3 or 4 hours, 
or until the prunes are very soft, add ^ cup sugar, the 
last hour of cooking. If necessary to add more water, 
add it before the sugar. 



HOOD'S MILK 75 



Sugar Cookies 

Prepared December 2. 

Fish Chowder 

Order a 4 pound haddock with the head left on. Cut 
out y2 from the thick part, boil as boiled fish, November 
6, and reserve. Skin and bone the remainder, cut the 
fish in about inch pieces, and put the head, skin and 
bones in a saucepan, cover with cold- water, and cook 
slowly 10 minutes, then strain, reserving the fish stock. 
Parboil 5 minutes 3 medium sized potatoes, cut in y^ 
inch slices ; then drain. Fry out 2 slices salt pork, add 
I small onion cut in small pieces, and fry until brown. 
Strain the fat and add to potatoes ; then add i cup 
boiling water, and cook until the potatoes are nearly 
tender, then add the reserved fish stock, the fish, and 
simmer until the potatoes and fish have cooked. Add 
I pint Hood's milk, scalded, salt, pepper, i tablespoon 
Hood's butter, and 4 common crackers split. 

Mince Pie 

Refer to November 26. 

December 5 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee^ Refer to November i. 

Omelet 

Beat the yolks of 3 of Hood's eggs until thick and 
lemon colored. Add 3 tablespoons Hood's milk and a 
few grains salt and pepper. Melt i tablespoon Hood's 
butter in an omelet pan. Turn in the ^g^ yolks and 
cook until slightly set, then spread on the whites of the 



76 DAILY LIVING 



eggs beaten stiff. Cook until well risen and brown 
underneath. Then put in oven until the white is dry 
on top. Fold and turn onto platter. Serve with 

White Sauce. Refer to November 6. 

Scalloped Fish* Refer to November ii. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Jellied Prunes 

Use Yz of the prunes prepared December 4. Drain, 
remove the stones, and keep the prunes whole, if possible. 
Add enough boiUng water to the liquid to make 2 cups, 
and pour over 2 tablespoons granulated gelatin softened 
in }{ cup cold water. Strain, add y^ cup sugar, and 
the prunes. Mould and chill, and serve with Hood's 
light cream if desired. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Pickled Red Cabbage 

Soak I small red cabbage in cold water several hours. 
Then drain, rinse, and wring very dry in a cloth. Season 
with salt. Cover with a .vinegar syrup, prepared in the 
proportion of i pint vinegar, ){ cup sugar, boiled together 
5 minutes. Bottle when cold. Serve with beans or 
cold meat. 

Pumpkin Pie 

Line a plate with pastry prepared as November 9, 
and fill in the following mixture : i Y^ cups cooked and 
strained pumpkin mixed with y^, cup sugar, i cup Hood's 
milk, 2 of Hood's eggs, unbeaten, i tablespoon Hood's 
butter, melted, i teaspoon cinnamon, and a scant half 
teaspoon each salt and ginger. Bake about 45 minutes 
in a moderate oven. 



HOOD'S MILK 77 



December 6 

Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November i . 
Reheated Brown Breads Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. . 

Pot Roast 

Order a 4 pound rolled rib of beef. Wipe meat, 
sprinkle with salt, and dredge with flour. Fry out 3 
slices salt pork in a deep saucepan. Lay in the meat, 
and brown on both sides. Remove the meat, and add 
to the fat in the pan, i onion sliced fine, i carrot and 
turnip cut in dice. Lay the meat on the vegetables, 
and add hot water to cover the vegetables. Put the 
cover on the saucepan, place in oven, and cook about 
four hours very slowly. Remove the meat to a platter, 
and thicken the liquid in the pan with flour diluted with 
cold water. Remove the pieces of salt pork, season 
with salt, and pour the gravy with the vegetables around 
the meat. 

Mashed Potatoes. 
Refer to November I. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

CarameHze >^ cup sugar, add V^ cup hot water, and 
simmer until melted ; then add to i pint of Hood's milk 
scalded. Cool, add Y^. cup more sugar, i pint Hood's 
light cream, few grains salt, ^ tablespoon vanilla ; 
freeze, using 3 parts ice and i pint salt. Makes 3 pints. 

Tomato Rarebit 

Melt over hot water i tablespoon Hood's butter, add 
I tablespoon flour, and gradually i cup canned tomato. 



78 DAILY LIVING 



Stir until thickened ; then add i cup Hood's full cream 
cheese cut in small pieces, i of Hood's eggs unbeaten. 
Stir until thickened and smooth, then season with salt 
and paprika. Serve on crackers. 

December 7 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Baked Bean Cream Soup 

Add I cup Hood's milk in place of tomato in baked 
bean soup, November 3. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Orange Jelly 

Add orange juice with the juice of i lemon in place 
of coffee, in coffee jelly, November 2. 

Cold Pot Roast 

Prepared December 6. 

Potato Croquettes 

To 2 cups hot riced potatoes add the yoke of i eggj 
I tablespoon butter, salt, celery salt, paprika, and a few 
drops onion juice. Shape into balls. Add i tablespoon 
cold water to the white of the egg, and proceed as with 
cheese croquettes, November 9. 

French Apple Dumplings 

Shape the pastry remaining from December 5 into 
rounds, using a large biscuit cutter, and line patty pans, 



HOOD'S MILK 79 



or small individual tins. Bake in a quick oven, and 
remove from the tin. Invert over baked apples which 
have been cored, pared and sweetened before baking. 
Serve with 

Hard Sauce 

Refer to November 4. 

December 8 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Orange and Celery Salad 

Prepare 2 oranges as in salad, December i . Mix with 
the celery left from December 7, and cut fine. Mound 
on lettuce leaves, and just before serving cover with 

Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Mix 3^ teaspoon each mustard and sugar, the yolk of 
one of Hood's eggs, and i teaspoon vinegar in a soup 
plate. Add 6 tablespoons oil gradually, beating rapidly 
with a silver fork. Then fold in the white of the egg 
beaten stiff. 

Hot Biscuit 

Refer to November 7. 

Reheated Beef 

Cut the beef remaining from pot roast in small pieces, 
and put in baking dish, dredge with flour, salt and pepper. 
Pour over any left over gravy with the vegetables, add 



8o DAILY LIVING 



cold water to cover meat. Put the dish, covered tightly, 
in a moderate oven. Cook slowly 3 or 4 hours. 

Boiled Potatoes^ Refer to November 3. 

Mashed Turnip* Refer to November 6. 

Cream Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5. 
December 9 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Macaroni with Cheese 

Break i cup macaroni in inch pieces, add ^ teaspoon 
salt, cover with 2 quarts boiling water ; boil rapidly 20 
minutes, or until soft. Drain, rinse with cold water, and 
put in saucepan again. Add Yz cup Hood's full cream 
cheese, grated, 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, and salt to 
taste. Reheat, and stir until butter and cheese are 
melted. Serve very hot. 

Peaches and Cream 

Refer to November 18. 

Chocolate Cake 

Cream Yz cup Hood's butter, add i cup sugar grad- 
ually, and 2 of Hood's eggs, well beaten ; then beat all 
together, using the ^gg beater. Add Y^ cup Hood's 
milk alternately with i Y^ cups sifted pastry flour. Add 
2 squares Baker's chocolate, melted. Add 2Y2 tea- 
spoons baking powder sifted into the mixture, then 



HOOD'S MILK 8i 



stirred in quickly. Bake about 40 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

Baked Halibut 

Order i ^ pounds in a thick piece, and bake as baked 
haddock, refer to November 1 3 . 

White Sauce^ Refer to November 6. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Dressed Lettuce. Refer to November 9. 

Fruit Trifle 

Beat y^ cup Hood's medium cream until thick. Then 
fold in I pint canned peaches which have been drained 
and cut in small pieces. Sweeten to taste. Serve very 
cold. Other fruit may be used in place of peaches. 

December lO 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Halibut Hollandaise 

Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add i % table- 
spoons flour, and gradually i cup Hood's milk. Add 
the halibut remaining from December 9, flaked in small 
pieces. Just before serving add i of Hood's eggs ; stir 
until thickened, then season with salt and paprika. 
Serve on crackers. May be prepared in the chafing dish. 

Chocolate Cake* Prepared December 9. 

Baked Apples* Refer to December i. 



82 DAILY LIVING 

Tomato Cream Soup 

Strain i cup tomato, heat to boiling point, and add 
y^ teaspoon soda. Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, 
add 2 tablespoons flour, and gradually 2 cups Hood's 
milk. Stir until thickened, then place over hot water. 
When ready to serve stir the hot tomato into the thick- 
ened milk, season with salt and pepper. 

Potatoes Baked with Cheese 

Add I cup Hood's milk to 2 of Hood's eggs, well 
beaten. Cut 4 large boiled potatoes in thin slices, and 
arrange in layers in a buttered dish. Sprinkle each layer 
with cheese, using for the recipe i cup Hood's full cream 
cheese, grated ; then add salt and paprika, and pour over 
each layer a little of the egg mixture. Bake about }^ 
hour in a moderate oven. 

December 11 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Corn Chowder 

Fry out 3 slices salt pork, add i small onion cut fine, 
and fry until brown, then strain. Parboil 4 potatoes cut 
in thin slices 5 minutes in boiling water to cover, then 
drain. Add the strained fat to the parboiled potatoes, 
with I can of corn, and boiling water to cover. Cook 
until the potatoes are soft. Then add 2 cups Hood's 
milk, scalded, 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, 4 common 
crackers, split, and salt and pepper to taste. 



HOOD'S MILK 83 



Bread and Fruit Mould 

Cut 4 slices of stale bread cut in inch slices into inch 
cubes. Drain i pint preserved quinces or other fruit, 
and cut the fruit in small pieces, then add to syrup. 
Arrange bread and fruit in alternate layers in a mould, 
using as much of the syrup as the bread will absorb, and 
pressing each layer into the mould. Let stand several 
hours, then turn from the mould, and serve with Hood's 
light cream. 

Scalloped Oysters 

Mix % cup each rolled cracker crumbs and stale bread 
crumbs with ys cup Hood's butter, melted. Pick over 
and drain i pint oysters. Mix y^ cup each oyster liquor 
and Hood's milk. Arrange crumbs, oysters and liquid 
in alternate layers, having 3 layers of crumbs and 2 
layers of the oysters with the liquid. Sprinkle each layer 
with salt and pepper. Bake about % hour in a hot oven. 

Chocolate Cake 

Prepared December 9. 

Stewed Figs 

Serve with light cream, refer to November 17. 

December 12 

Oat CereaU Refer to November 4. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Oven Broiled Bacon. Refer to December 3. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 



84 DAILY LIVING 

Breaded Lamb Chops 

Order i y^ pounds forequarter lamb chops, and season 
with salt. Add 2 tablespoons cold water to i of Hood's 
eggs. Dip the chops in bread crumbs, then in ^^g, then 
in crumbs again. Dot over with i tablespoon Hood's 
butter, and bake in a hot oven about ^ hour, or until 
tender. Serve with 

Tomato Sauce 

Simmer 10 minutes lY^ cups canned tomato with i 
slice onion, bit of bay and 2 cloves ; then strain. Melt 
2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 2>^ tablespoons flour, 
and gradually the strained tomato. Stir until thickened, 
then season with salt and pepper. 

Hot Biscuit 

Refer to November 7. 

Hot Apple Sauce 

Pare, quarter and slice 5 apples. Put in saucepan, 
cover with cold water, and cook until the apples are soft. 
Mash and cook 5 minutes with }^ cup sugar. 

Baked Beans. Refer to November 7. 
Brown Bread. Refer to November 7. 
Pickled Red Cabbage. Refer to December 5 . 
Baked Custards. Refer to November 7. 

December 13 

Reheated Beans* Refer to November I . 
Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 85 



Fowit Southern Style* Refer to November i. 
Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 
Boiled Onions^ Refer to November 8. 

Charlotte Russe 

Prepare the whip from i pint Hood's hght cream, 
beating with a whip churn, and taking off with a spoon, 
and draining in a strainer the whipped cream as it 
forms. The cream will not whip to the bottom of the 
bowl. Add 2 tablespoons cold water to % tablespoon 
granulated gelatin ; then add 3 tablespoons of the un- 
whipped cream, which has been scalded. Add }^ cup 
powdered sugar and i teaspoon vanilla. Stir constantly 
until the mixture begins to thicken. Then fold in the 
whipped cream about >^ at a time. Mould and chill. 
The cream should be whipped before the gelatin mixture 
is prepared. The cream remaining may be used in the 
cocoa. 

Q*eam Cheese Sandwiches 

Mash I Hood's cottage cheese ; season generously 
with paprika ; spread between slices of buttered bread. 

Cocoa 

Mix 2 tablespoons each cocoa and sugar ; add i cup 
boiling water and boil i minute, then add 3 cups scalded 
milk. Beat with the Qgg beater until well blended just 
before serving. 

December I4 

Wheat Cereal. Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November i. 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 



86 DAILY LIVING 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Chicken BechameL Refer to November 9. 

Potato Borden Refer to November 9. 

Orange Short Cake 

Prepare baking powder biscuit mixture, refer to Novem- 
ber 2, using 4 tablespoons Hood's butter. Roll out ^ 
inch in thickness, and cut out with the biscuit cutter. 
Place on an inverted buttered pan about i inch apart. 
Spread with Hood's butter, melted, and fit on another 
round. Bake about 12 minutes in a hot oven. When 
baked, break apart and fill with 2 oranges, sweetened 
and prepared as for orange salad, refer to December i . 
Then add whipped cream, using i cup Hood's medium 
cream for the short cake. Fit on the other half of each 
biscuit and garnish with whipped cream and orange. 

Whipped Cream 
Refer to November 4. 

Meat Pie 

Cut in small pieces i pound lower round steak, 6 
potatoes and i small onion. Arrange in alternate layers 
in a baking dish, sprinkling each layer with flour, salt 
and pepper. Cover with cold water. Cover dish closely, 
and cook slowly 3 or 4 hours. Remove plate the last 
half hour of cooking. Cool slightly. Cover with Y^ the 
recipe of pastry, refer to November 9, and bake about 
40 minutes more. 

Rice Pudding 

Put 3 tablespoons rice in a saucepan, cover with i 
quart cold water, bring to the boil and boil 5 minutes, 
then drain and rinse with cold water. Put in baking 
dish, add 2 cups Hood's milk, scalded, ^ teaspoon salt, 



HOOD'S MILK 87 



3 tablespoons sugar, and y^ teaspoon vanilla or y^ tea- 
spoon cinnamon. Bake two hours in a very slow oven, 
stirring occasionally. 

December 15 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Omelets Refer to December 5 . 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Hygienic Soup 

Put I quart stock remaining from fowl, Southern style, 
in the top of double boiler, and cook over hot water with 
% cup rolled oats Y^ hour. Strain and season with salt. 

Coffee Jelly 

Refer to November 2. 

Molasses Cookies 

Heat I cup molasses and Yi cup each Hood's butter 
and lard to the boiling and melting point, add ^ cup 
cold coffee, Y^ cup sugar, i tablespoon ginger, 2 tea- 
spoons soda and i teaspoon salt. Remove from fire, add 
2 Y^ cups bread flour all at once, and enough more flour 
to make it stiff enough to roll. Chill about 2 hours, then 
roll out, shape and bake on an inverted pan in a moderate 
oven. 

Halibut Baked with Cheese 

Order i ^ pounds halibut cut in ^ inch slices. 
Season with salt, and lay in baking pan on 2 strips of 



88 DAILY LIVING 

cheese cloth wrung out of cold water. Cover generously 
with Hood's full cream cheese, cut in small pieces. 
Bake about )^ hour in a hot oven. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 
Indian Pudding* Refer to November 5 . 

December lO 

Wheat Cereal 

Refer to November 2. 

Corn Muffins 

Substitute corn meal for graham flour in graham 
muffins. Refer to November 3. 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Halibut Rarebit 

Melt I tablespoon butter, add a few drops onion juice 
and I ^ tablespoons flour mixed with ^ teaspoon salt, 
and a few grains paprika. Then pour on gradually i 
cup Hood's milk. Add i cup Hood's full cream cheese 
cut fine, and the cold flaked halibut left over, about >^ 
cup. When the cheese is melted add i of Hood's eggs, 
unbeaten, and stir until thickened. Serve on crackers. 
Make in the chafing dish or double boiler. 

Preserved Quinces* Refer to November 3. 

Molasses Cookies*. Prepared December 15. 

Fricassee of Lamb* Refer to November 12. 



HOOD'S MILK 89 



Creamed Turnips 

Cut turnip in )^ inch cubes, enough to make 2 cups. 
Cook in boiling salted water about 20 minutes, or until 
soft, then add to i cup white sauce. Refer to Novem- 
ber 6. 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes^ Refer to November i . 
Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 

December 17 

Oat CereaL Refer to December 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Sweet Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Cut 4 potatoes in cubes and arrange in alternate layers 
in a baking dish with i onion sliced fine and 2 cups 
Hood's milk, dredging each layer of potatoes with flour 
and sprinkling with salt and pepper. Cover closely and 
cook about 2 hours, or until soft, in a moderate oven. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 
Maine Gingerbread* Refer to November 3 
Scotch Broth* Refer to November 11. 
Apple Dumplings* Refer to November 4. 
Hard Sauce* Refer to November 4. 

December 18 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 



go DAILY LIVING 

Creamed Codfish^ Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Lamb Cream Soup» Refer to November 14. 
Cheese Sandwiches* Refer to December 3. 
Ginger Cakes* Refer to November 4. 
Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Baked Fillets of Haddock 

Order a 4 pound haddock skinned. Cut out enough 
from the tail end to make 2 cups and boil, to be used for 
croquettes. Cut the remainder from the bone, separat- 
ing into 2 fillets. Lay i fillet on strips of salt pork, 
season with salt. Pick over >^ pint oysters and season 
with salt. Dip each oyster into Hood's butter, melted, 
using about 2 tablespoons, then into rolled cracker 
crumbs. Lay on the fillet of fish, with the second 
fillet on top. Lay 2 strips of salt pork on top of fish, 
which has been seasoned with salt. Bake about 40 
minutes in a hot oven, basting with the fat in the pan. 
Serve with 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Soak I cup stale bread crumbs in 2 cups Hood's milk, 
scalded, 20 minutes. Add ys cup sugar, 2 of Hood's 
eggs, well beaten, ^ teaspoon vanilla, few grains salt 
and I square Baker's chocolate, melted, and diluted with 
enough hot water to pour easily. Turn into buttered 



HOOD'S MILK 91 



baking dish and bake about 45 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with ^ cup Hood's medium cream un- 
beaten. 

December 19 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Breads Refer to November i . 
Coffeet Refer to November i . 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes 

Melt the bacon fat remaining from oven broiled bacon 
and dip into it the left over sweet potatoes, which have 
been cut lengthwise, % inch in thickness. Put in a 
baking pan and brown in a hot oven, or pan broil in the 
frying pan. 

Fish Croquettes 

Melt 2% tablespoons Hood's butter, add 5/3 cup flour, 
and gradually i cup milk. Stir until thickened, then 
add the 2 cups cold flaked fish, salt, paprika, celery salt 
and onion juice to taste. Spread on a plate to cool, 
then shape and proceed as cheese croquettes, refer to 
November 9. 

Hot Biscuit 

Refer to November 7. 

Tapioca Cream 

Scald 2 cups Hood's milk, add yi cup pearl tapioca 
which has been soaked two hours in cold water, then 
drained. Cook until the tapioca is transparent, then add 
Yi cup sugar. Add the milk mixture to the yolks of 2 
of Hood's eggs unbeaten, return to the double boiler, 
and cook until the mixture coats the spoon. Remove 
from the fire, add a few grains salt, ^ teaspoon vanilla, 
and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 



92 



DAILY LIVING 



Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 
Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 
Squash Pie* Refer to November 14. 

December 20 

Baked Sausage 

Prick with a fork i pound sausages and parboil 5 
minutes in boiling water. Put in a baking pan and bake 
in a hot oven about 20 minutes, or until brown. 

Baked Bananas 

Peel and cut 4 bananas in halves, put in pan with 
sausages the last 10 minutes of cooking the sausages. 
Baste with the fat in the pan. 

Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Fricassee Chicken* Refer to November 15. 
Mashed Potatoes. Refer to November i. 
Boiled Squash. Refer to November 12. 

Blushing Apples 

Put six red apples in a saucepan, half cover with hot 
water and cook until the apples are soft when tried with 
a silver fork. Turn frequently while cooking. Remove 
the apples, take off the skins and arrange in a serving 
dish. To the liquid in the pan add % cup sugar and % 
teaspoon cinnamon. Cook, boiling rapidly, until the 
syrup is thick. Pour over the apples and cool. Serve 
with 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 



HOOD'S MILK 93 



Cocoa. Refer to December 13. 
Toast* Refer to November i. 

December 21 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November i. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
White Cream Soup* Refer to November 2. 
Croutons of Bread. Refer to November 5. 
Banana Fritters. Refer to November 6. 
Currant Jelly Sauce. Refer to November 6. 

Chicken Stew 

Put the chicken remaining from the fricassee with i 
onion into cold water to cover and cook until it frees 
easily from the bone. Remove the meat from the bone, 
put back in the water with 3 medium potatoes cut in 
cubes and cook until the potatoes are soft, or about 1 5 
minutes. Then add i quart of stock left from the cook- 
ing of the fowl. Bring to the boiling point and thicken 
with 2 tablespoons flour diluted with cold water to pour. 
Serve with 

Dumplings 

Mix and sift together 2 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking 
powder and % teaspoon salt. Add ^ cup Hood's milk 
gradually. Drop by spoonfuls onto a buttered strainer, 
which will fit closely the kettle in which the stew is 
cooking, or cook over boiling water, which is better. 



94 



DAILY LIVING 



Cover tightly and steam 12 minutes without Ufting the 
cover or having the water stop boiUng. 

Apple Cream Puffs 

Shape and bake the pastry remaining from squash pie, 
as the French apple dumplings, refer to December 7. 
When cold fill with 

Apple Cream 

Pare and core and quarter 2 sour apples, steam in a 
strainer, then rub through the strainer. Add Y^, cup 
Hood's medium cream beaten stiff. 

December 22 

Oat CcTCSih Refer to November 4. 

Graham Muffins. Refer to November 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 

Baked Bean Cream Soup. Refer to December 7. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5 . 

Meat Balls 

Order i pound lower round steak and }( pound suet. 
Put through the meat chopper. Season with salt and 
shape into 8 flat, round cakes, pressing as little as pos- 
sible. Heat frying pan smoking hot, put in the cakes 
and panbroil, by turning every lo seconds, first on the 
one side, then on the other, until well seared over. Cook 
about 6 minutes, allowing the meat to brown on both 
sides. Serve with 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 



HOOD'S MILK 95 



Mashed Turnips* Refer to November 6. 
Jellied Prunes. Refer to December 5. 

December 23 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to Novernber i. 

Cream of Onion Soup. Refer to December i. 

Crisp Crackers 

Split and butter common crackers with Hood's butter. 
Put in baking pan in hot oven and brown. Turn once 
and watch carefully. 

Baked Apples 

Refer to November i . 

Spice Cakes 

Put I of Hood's eggs in a bowl, to the unbeaten egg 
add fi cup molasses, fi cup sugar, y2 cup Hood's butter 
melted. Mix and sift 2}4 cups flour with 2 teaspoons 
soda, I teaspoon cream tartar, i teaspoon cinnamon, 
^ teaspoon clove and }( teaspoon grated nutmeg, and 
add alternately with i cup Hood's milk to the first mix- 
ture. Add ^ cup raisins cut in small pieces and mixed 
with ^ cup flour. Then add i tablespoon vinegar. 
Bake in i dozen small tins about 20 minutes, and the 
remainder in a sheet about 40 minutes. F'rost the sheet 
with chocolate frosting. 

Steamed Halibut 

Order i ^ pounds halibut cut in a thick piece. Wipe 
with a dampened cloth. Place in a steamer over boiling 



96 DAILY LIVING 

water, cover tightly and steam about 30 minutes, or until 
the fish is dry and flakes apart. Serve with 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 

Apple Dumplings. Refer to November 4. 

Hard Sauce* Refer to November 4. 

December 24 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Chop the left over potatoes finely and season with salt. 
Put enough of the bacon to brown the potatoes in a fry- 
ing pan. Put in the potatoes and stir frequently until 
browned, adding more fat if necessary. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Prepare and boil macaroni as in macaroni with cheese, 
refer to December 9. Arrange in alternate layers with 
white sauce, refer to November 6, in a baking dish. 
Sprinkle each layer with cheese. Reheat in a hot oven 
until the cheese is melted. 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit* 
Refer to November 12. 



HOOD'S MILK 97 



Spice Cakes* Prepared December 23. 
Coffee Jelly* Refer to November 2. 
Scalloped Fish» Refer to Novem.ber 1 1 . 
Mince Pie* Refer to November 26. 

December 25» Christinas 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 
Refer to November 3. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Coffee^ Refer to November i . 

Tomato Soup 

Add Yz pint water, 2 cloves, i slice onion and bit of 
bay leaf to i pint canned tomatoes. Simmer 1 5 minutes, 
then strain. Melt i >^ tablespoons butter, add i)^ 
tablespoons flour, and gradually the strained tomato ; 
when boiling add a few grains soda, and strain again. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

Roast Goose 

Draw and singe a goose ; then wash in hot water, 
scrubbing well, and wipe dry. Stuff with potato stuff- 
ing, sew and truss, tying the legs and wings close to the 
body. Rub with salt ; place on rack in dripping pan, 
dredge with flour, and roast in hot oven, about 2 hours, 
or until the second joint separates easily from the body. 
When half cooked turn off the fat in the pan. Baste 
with hot water and dredge with flour after each basting. 

Potato Stuffing 

Mix 3 cups hot mashed potato, ^ cup soft bread 
crumbs, Yi cup Hood's butter melted, i onion cut fine, 
I Y2. teaspoons salt and a few grains paprika. 



98 DAILY LIVING 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes* Refer to December 12. 
Apple Sauce* Refer to December 12. 
Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Cranberry Punch 

Boil 2 cups water and i cup sugar together 1 5 minutes. 
Boil I pint cranberries and i cup water together 5 
minutes. Strain through cheese cloth, add the syrup 
and the juice of i lemon. Cool, freeze to a mush, using 
equal parts ice and salt. Serve in glasses after the 
game course. 

Christmas Plum Pudding: 

Pour y2, cup Hood's milk, scalded, over i cup bread 
crumbs. When cool add ^ cup sugar, % teaspoon salt 
and the yokes of 2 of Hood's eggs. Then add y{ pound 
chopped suet mixed with y^ cup each currants and cut 
raisins, add ^ teaspoon each cinnamon and salt, and 
y^ teaspoon each clove and nutmeg. Then add the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Steam 3 hours. Serve 
with 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Christmas Salad 

Cut a slice from the stem end of red apples and 
scoop out the inside, leaving the shell. Cut the pieces 
of apple into small bits and mix with ^ as many walnut 
meats broken in small pieces ; mix with French dressing, 
refer to November 7. Fill the mixture into the apple 
shells and fit on the top of the apple. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Cream Hood's butter and spread the bread before cut- 
ting the slice as thin as possible. Put together in pairs. 



HOOD'S MILK 99 



Remove the crusts and cut in fancy shapes. Wrap in a 
dampened cloth until serving time. 

Nuts and Raisins 

Order ^ pound mixed nuts and crack. Serve with 
^ pound fancy layer raisins. 

December 20 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 

Sweet Potatoes Broiled* Refer to December 19. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Scalloped Potatoes* Refer to December 17. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Tarts 

Prepare pastry, refer to November 9. Roll out % of 
the pastry and cut out with a biscuit cutter ; with a 
smaller cutter take out the centre from ^ of rounds, to 
make rings. Brush over the edge of the lower round 
with cold water and fit on the rings. Bake in a moderate 
oven about 1 5 minutes. Fill with currant jelly. 



Baked Kidney Beans 

Soak in cold water over night i quart kidney beans, 
in the morning drain, pick over, put in bean pot and 
prepare as baked beans, refer to November 7. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 
Squash Pie* Refer to November 14. 



100 DAILY LIVING 

December 27 

Reheated Beans^ Refer to November I . 
Brown Breads Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Goose 

Put the goose remaining from December 25 in a pan 
and reheat about % of an hour in a hot oven, or until 
thoroughly heated through. Carve and arrange on a 
platter and garnish with the stuffing. 

Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Stewed Prunes. Refer to December 4. 

Walnut Ice Cream 

Add I cup of walnut meats broken in pieces to vanilla 
ice cream, refer to November i. 

Milk Toast 

Scald 2 cups Hood's milk, add 3 tablespoons flour 
diluted with cold water to pour, and stir into the milk. 
Stir constantly until thickened, and afterwards occasion- 
ally. Add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter and salt to taste. 
Dip the edges of 6 slices of toasted bread in hot water, 
arrange in a serving dish and pour over the sauce. 

Tea* Refer to November i . 

Spice Cake* Prepared December 23. 

December 28 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4 

Rice Griddle Cakes. Refer to November 5 . 



HOOD'S MILK loi 



Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Squash Soup 

Cook 3 tablespoons Hood's butter with 2 slices onion 
and a bit of bay leaf 5 minutes. Add 3 tablespoons 
flour and gradually 4 cups Hood's milk. Cook in the 
double boiler 5 minutes, then add 2 cups cooked and 
strained squash. Reheat and strain. Season with salt 
and paprika. 

Crisp Crackers 

Refer to December 23. 

Sliced Oranges 

Prepare oranges as for orange salad, refer to Decem- 
ber I. Then sprinkle with sugar. 

Cold Roast Goose 

Cut the goose remaining from roast goose into small 
pieces, arrange on a platter and pour over 

Spanish Sauce 

Cut Yz onion in small pieces and add to 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter with 3 cloves and a bit of bay leaf. Fry 
in the butter until slightly yellowed without browning. 
Then add i pint tomatoes and simmer 15 minutes, or 
until the liquid is reduced. Remove the cloves and bay 
leaf and season with salt and paprika. 

Potato Croquettes* Refer to December 7. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 

December 29 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 



102 DAILY LIVING 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Kidney Bean Salad 

Add onion juice to taste to the left over kidney beans, 
moisten with )^ recipe boiled dressing and mound on a 
salad dish. 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Prune Souffle 

Rub the prunes remaining from December 27 through 
a strainer. Beat the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs stiff, 
and continue beating while adding gradually the prunes. 
Put in baking dish and bake about 15 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

English Beef Soup 

Put ^ pound lower round steak cut in inch cubes in 
the bean pot. Add i carrot cut in dice, 2 turnips cut 
in dice and i onion cut fine. Then add i cup canned 
tomato, salt, pepper and cold water to cover. Put the 
cover on the bean pot, make a thick paste of flour and 
water, and lay around the edge of the cover, to prevent 
the escape of steam while cooking. Cook 4 hours in a 
moderate oven. 

Orange Jelly- 
Refer to December 7. 

December 30 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 103 



Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Creamed Codfish. Refer to November 6. 

Stewed Lima Beans 

Soak I cup Lima beans over night in cold water to 
cover. In the morning drain and cook in boihng salted 
water until soft. Drain, add 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter and ^ cup top of Hood's milk and reheat. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. Refer to November 2. 
Cheese and Jelly. Refer to November 5 . 
Baked Finnan Haddie. Refer to November 20. 
Baked Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Stewed Tomatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Apple Dumplings. Refer to November 4. 

Molasses Sauce 

Add 3 tablespoons flour to i cup molasses. Blend 
well, add ^ cup water, 2 tablespoons Hood's butter and 
a few grains salt. Boil 5 minutes and serve hot. 

December 31 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Scrambled Eggs Creamed. Refer to December 2. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Turnip Cream Soup. Refer to November 12. 

Croutons of Bread. Refer to November 5. 



104 DAILY LIVING 

Hot Apple Sauce 
Refer to December 12. 

Reheated Finnan Haddie 

Pick in small pieces the left over finnan haddie, add 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter, ^ cup Hood's milk, salt if 
necessary, and heat thoroughly. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 

Boiled Dressing. Prepared December 29. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

To ^ can stewed and strained tomatoes add Vn tea- 
spoon each salt and powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons 
granulated gelatin which has been soaked in ^ cup cold 
water. Pour into small cups and mould. Place on 
lettuce leaves and serve with boiled dressing. 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

Food is that which, taken into the body, builds tissues or yields 
energy. 



HOOD'S MILK 



105 



Cost of Living for December 



December 1'8 

9 half pint jars light cream. .$0.63 
12 qts. milk at 9 cts 1.08 

1 doz. fresh eggs 55 

2y^ lbs. butter at 44 cts i.io 

Jar medium cream 10 

^2 lb. full cream cheese 11 

Coffee at 35 cts. a lb 28 

2 yeast cakes 04 

% lb. bacon 04 

Cereal 

Quinces, home prepared. . 
Potatoes 



.08 
.10 
.10 

Sugar, 3 lbs 18 

Flour 20 

Fowl, 5 lbs 75 

Indian and rye meal 05 

Graham flour 02 

Apples, by the barrel 10 

Vinegar and molasses 05 

Rice 02 

Prunes, I lb 12 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

Pickles 04 

Mince meat, actual cost 05 

Vegetables 05 

Cabbage, j4 04 

)4. meat loaf 15 

8 oranges 18 

Oil, % cup 05 

Lettuce . . 08 

Pork, >^ lb 08 

Crackers, ^ lb 05 

Red cabbage, ^ 05 

Pumpkin 10 

Tomatoes, home canned 03 

4 lbs. pot roast 60 

Ice and salt 07 

Gelatin 04 

Small bottle stuffed olives.. .10 

Vanilla 05 

Spices and salt 08 

Lard 05 



Total for i week 



.^7.92 



December 8'IS 

Milk, 13 qts. at 9 cts $1 

Butter, 2)4 lbs. at 44 cts.. . . i 

}4 lb. cheese 

Light cream, 9 half pint jars . . 

1 doz. fresh eggs 

Medium cream, 2 jars 

2 cottage cheeses 

Peaches 

Flour 

Sugar, 4 lbs 

Cereal 

Potatoes 

Canned tomatoes 

Oil 

2 yeast cakes 

Spices 

Molasses 



8 oranges 

Jelly 

Crackers 

Vegetables , 

Rye and corn meal. . , 

Chocolate 

Halibut, i}4 lbs , 

Macaroni 

Apples 

Raisins and currants, 
Codfish 



I can corn 

I pt. quinces 

I pt. oysters 

K lb. figs 

X lb. bacon 

X lb. lard 

1)4 lbs. forequarter lamb. 

Beans 

Pork, >^ lb 

Red cabbage 

5 lb. fowl 

Gelatin, }4 tablespoon. . . . 

Coffee at 35 cts. lb 

Cocoa 

Pickles 

Rice 

I lb. lower round 

Spices and salt 



Total for week . 



17 
.10 
.11 
•63 

•55 
.20 

.10 

.10 

.20 

.24 

.08 

.10 

•05 
.11 
.04 
.02 

•05 
.18 

•03 
.10 

•OS 
.05 

•05 

•30 

•03 
.10 

•03 
.02 
.12 

.10 

.20 
.08 
.04 
.04 

•15 

.08 

.08 

•05 

•75 
.01 

.28 

.02 

•05 
.oi 

•15 

fl 

.05 



io6 



DAILY LIVING 



December 15-22 

12 qts. milk at 9 cts ^1.08 

1 doz. eggs, fresh 55 

2}4 lbs. butter at 44 cts i.io 

2 jars medium cream 20 

7 jars light cream 49 

^2 lb. full cream cheese 11 

I lb. lower round 15 

Rice and tapioca 03 

Cereal 08 

Coffee .28 

Molasses 05 

1 ^2 lbs. halibut 30 

Potatoes 05 

Apples 10 

Indian and rye meal 05 

2 yeast cakes 04 

% lb. bacon ... .04 

Crackers 10 

Quinces 10 

4 lbs. forequarter lamb .40 

Sweet potatoes 10 

Baking powder 05 

Flour 20 

Sugar, 3 lbs 18 

Vegetables 05 

Codfish 02 

Spices and salt 04 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

J4 pt. oysters .10 

Chocolate, i square 03 

Pea beans 08 

Pork 04 

I lb. sausage 16 

Squash, 3 lbs 09 

6 bananas 10 

5 lbs. fowl 75 

Cocoa 02 

Currant jelly 10 

Lard 10 

Total for week ^7-79 



December 22-31 

16 qts. milk at 9 cts $1.44 

1 5 eggs at 55 cts. doz 69 

13 half pint jars light cream .91 

2/4 lbs. butter at 44 cts 1.54 

^ lb. full cream cheese 11 

2 cottage cheeses 10 

1 jar medium cream 10 

Graham flour and cereal 10 

Coffee 38 

Apples 10 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Currant jelly. . , 10 

I lb. lower round and suet. . .17 

Turnips and onions 08 

Crackers 05 

1 )4 lbs. halibut 30 

Lettuce 08 

Baking powder and flour 25 

4 lbs. sugar 24 

j4. lb. bacon 04 

Sweet potatoes 10 

Macaroni and pickles 07 

2 qts. tomatoes 06 

8 lbs. goose at 25 cts 2.00 

Lard and mince meat 13 

I doz. oranges 25 

I pint cranberries 06 

Ice and salt 10 

}4 lb. n^its and }4 lb. raisins . . .19 

Walnut meats 10 

Kidney beans and pork 14 

Indian and rye meal 05 

Rice 03 

Chili sauce and tea . .04 

Vinegar and molasses 06 

)4 lb. lower round 08 

Gelatin 02 

Finnan haddie 20 

Lima beans 03 

Oil 05 

I lb. prunes 12 

Potatoes and 3 lbs. squash ... .19 

Total for week ^10.89 

792 

8.05 

7-79 

Total for month ^34.65 



HOOD'S MILK 



107 



LfO-wering tKe Cost 



December 1=8 

Omit 7 jars light cream $0.49 

Omit coffee 28 

Pickles 04 

Oranges and substitute 

apples 13 

Red cabbage 05 

Olives 10 



Total for week ^1.09 



December 8 '15 

7 jars light cream $0.49 

Oil 05 

Substitute 4 lbs. forequarter 

lamb at 40 cts. for 5 lbs. 

fowl 35 

Omit I qt. milk 09 

Red cabbage 05 

Pickles 05 

Substitute emergency soup 

for scalloped oysters... .20 

51.28 



December IS" 22 

I jar medium cream $0.10 

7 jars light cream 49 

)4 pint oysters, use onion 

stuffing 10 

Sausages and bananas 26 

Substitute baked beans, use 

apples in fritters. 



$0.95 



December 22-31 

3 eggs for scrambled eggs, 

substitute potatoes $0.12 

10 jars light cream 70 

Coffee 38 

Pickles 04 

Oranges use apples 25 

Nuts and raisins 19 

Walnut meats . .10 

Chili sauce 02 

Tea 02 

Use 4 lbs. roast chicken 

Friday and Mond'y 50.72 

Forequarter lamb fricassee, 

2 lbs., Sunday 20 

50.92 

For roast goose, 52.00, dif- 
ference 1.08 

52.90 

Total for month 56.22 



io8 DAILY LIVING 

Hints for the Housekeeper 

Buttered Crumbs* Use % as much melted butter 
as rolled cracker crumbs. The crumbs may be prepared 
for several days' use and kept in a cold place. 

Prepared Crumbs. For crumbing croquettes, use 
dried bread, dried but not browned in the oven. Then 
put through the meat chopper. Keep in an uncovered 
jar, or, if necessary, tie a piece of cheese cloth over the 
jar, to admit the air. 

Extracting Onion Juice* Cut a slice from the 
root end of the onion and scrape down the onion with a 
vegetable knife, when the juice will flow. The cut 
onion may be put away for further use. 

Peeling Onions^ Cover with cold water and hold 
under water while peeling. 

Cooking Onions and all strong odor vegetables. 
Cook in an uncovered dish, when there is less odor. 
The time required for cooking is longer, but the odor is 
not concentrated. 

Potatoes and Vegetables, if not to be served whole, 
may be cut in small pieces of uniform size for quick 
cooking. 

Celery and Lettuce, after washing, may be wrapped 
in a wet cloth, and will keep fresh for several days. 

Fish and Vegetables of strong odor should be 
covered in the ice box. 

Apples for salad should be prepared with a silver 
knife, to prevent discolorization, and will keep white 
after preparation by covering with cold water. 

Lemons cut, but not used, will keep fresh placed cut 
side down on a plate. 



HOOD'S MILK 109 



Suggestions for Christmas Giving 

Maple Cocoanut Candy^ Mix i cup confection- 
ers' sugar, Yz cup maple syrup, y^ cup Hood's milk. 
Put in saucepan and stir constantly until the boiling 
point is reached. Boil without stirring until a soft ball 
will form when tried in cold water. Remove from the 
fire, add ^ cup cocoanut, beat until it begins to sugar, 
then drop by spoonfuls onto buttered paper. Makes i 
pound. 

Salted Almonds* Blanch y^ pound Jordan almonds 
by covering with boiling water, and after a few minutes 
snapping off the skins. Melt Yz cup Hood's butter, put 
in the almonds about >^ at a time, and stir constantly 
until brown. Take out and drain on paper and sprinkle 
with salt. 

W^alnut Candy^ Put in a saucepan 2 cups brown 
sugar, Y^ cup Hood's butter, 4 tablespoons molasses, 2 
tablespoons each vinegar and water. Boil 15 minutes, 
or until a firm ball will form when tried in cold water. 
Add I cup nut meats broken in pieces. Turn into but- 
tered pan, and when cool mark into squares. 

Fruit Cake» Cream I cup Hood's butter, add i Y'^ 
cups light brown sugar, then add i pound currants, i 
pound raisins cut in small pieces, and Y pound citron 
cut in small strips. Add 4 of Hood's eggs well beaten. 
Mix and sift 2 cups pastry flour with i teaspoon cinna- 
mon and Y^ teaspoon each allspice, clove and nutmeg, 
and add to the first mixture with the juice of i lemon. 
Sift ^ teaspoon soda into Y^ cup molasses and beat ; 
while foaming stir into the first mixture. Bake in a 
bread tin in a very moderate oven about 3 Y^ hours. 
This makes a 5 pound loaf, and it will keep a year. 



no DAILY LIVING 

Corn Balls^ Boil >^ cup molasses and }( cup sugar 
until it is hard when dropped in cold water. Add to 4 
quarts of popped corn, salted ; shape into balls. Makes 
4 dozen corn balls. 

German Springerle Cakes* Beat the yolks of 2 
of Hood's eggs until light colored, the whites until stiff 
and dry, then beat together. Add the grated rind of 
^ lemon and y^ cup powdered sugar gradually. Then 
add 2 cups flour sifted with ^ teaspoon baking powder. 
Knead and cover closely. After chilling, roll small 
pieces into a sheet }i inch in thickness. Dust lightly 
with flour and shape. Let stand several hours, or over 
night. In the morning transfer to baking tins buttered 
and sprinkled with caraway seed. Bake in a slow oven 
to a light straw color. 



Month of January 



Food for Season 



Food is anything which nourishes the body. The 
well nourished man can much better endure the cold 
of winter than the poorly nourished one. In the sum- 
mer we desire less and lighter food than in the winter. 
So in the winter I have chosen the meat to be replaced 
by the fish in the summer. Again, in the winter fried 
food is palatable, while in the summer are preferred the 
hghter salads. In the winter I have chosen the steamed 
puddings and in the summer the fresh fruits, as the fruit 
is more cooling to the body. I find then, after study- 
ing the composition and the preparation of food and 
the relation which one food stuff bears to the other, that 
I am able to work out a satisfactory daily living for the 
different seasons. 

It is said that the cheapest food is that which sup- 
plies the most nourishment for the least money. The 
most economical food is that which is the cheapest and 
at the same time best adapted to the wants of the eater. 
I have chosen then the most economical rather than 
always the cheapest food. 



113 



114 DAILY LIVING 

Memoranda 



HOOD'S MILK 115 



January I 



BreskKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes Lemon Syrup 

L>\xncl:\eoi\ 01* Supper 

Rice with Cheese 
Molasses Cookies Canned Peaches 

Dinner 

Clam Chowder Pickles 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 



January 2 



BreaKfatst 

Boiled Hominy Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LrtincKeon or Dinner 

Scalloped Cheese Hot Biscuit 

Hot Apple Sauce Molasses Cookies 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Steamed Graham Bread 

Chili Sauce Baked Custards 



January 3 



BrestKfast 



Reheated Beans Reheated Graham Bread 

Coffee Grapefruit 

Fowl Southern Style Hominy Balls 

Creamed Turnips Charlotte Russe 

Tea 

Toasted Bread Baked Apples 

Molasses Cookies Cocoa 



ii6 DAILY LIVING 

January 4 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Baked Beans Reheated 

Toasted Graham Bread Coffee 

LuncHeoii or Supper 

Chicken Broth with Rice 

Stewed Prunes Toasted Bread 

Dinner 

Breaded Lamb Chops Tomato Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Boiled Parsnips Apple Tapioca 



January 5 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Potato Cakes 

Entire Wheat Muffins Coffee 

L-tincHeon or Supper 

"White Cream Soup Grapefruit and Nut Salad 

French Dressing Hot Biscuit 

Dinner 

Baked Haddock Onion Dressing 

Drawn Butter Sauce French Fried Potatoes 

Mince Pie 



January 6 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal . Scrambled Eggs with Cheese 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Scalloped Fish Cottage Cheese Hot Apple Sauce 

Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Stuffed Rolled Roast Baked Potatoes 

Mashed Turnips Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Grapefruit and Shredded Lettuce Salad 

Bread and Butter 



HOOD'S MILK 117 



January 7 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Corn Cake 

Omelet White Sauce Coffee 

r^u.ricl:\eori ox* Stippex* 

Turnip Cream Soup Crisp Crackers 

Canned Quinces Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Cold Stuffed Roast 

Delmonico Potatoes Boiled Onions 

Cranberry Pudding Lemon Cream Sauce 



January 8 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Supper 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce and Cheese 
Chocolate Nut Cake Boiled Frosting Tea 

Dinner 

Baked Halibut Baked Onions White Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Baldwin Pudding 



January 9 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Dinner 

Fish Souffle Mince Turnovers 

Entire Wheat Bread 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Kidney Beans Brown Bread 

Cabbage Salad Boiled Dressing Squash Pie 



ii8 DAILY LIVING 



January 10 



BreaKfast 

Baked Sausages Apple Rings 

Reheated Brown Bread Coffee 

Dinner 

Roast Lamb Mashed Potatoes Gravy 

Steamed Squash 

Ginger Ice Cream Chocolate Cake 

Tea 

Apples Baked in Casserole 
Toasted Bread Cocoa 



January U 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Reheated Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

L'tmcHeon or Stipper 

St. Germain Corn Soup Croutons of Bread 

Nut Cake Sliced Oranges 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Lamb with Gravy 

Cabbage Scalloped with Cheese 
Fried Potato Cakes Apple Pie 



January 12 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Creamed Codfish Baked Potatoes 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Kidney Bean Salad 

Bread and Butter Rice Pudding 

Dinner 

Lamb Croquettes Hot Fried Biscuit 

Orange Custard Pudding 



HOOD'S MILK iig 



January 13 

BreaKfsiSt 

Oat Cereal Creamed Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Lamb and Potato Stew 
Dressed Lettuce Jellied Figs 

Dinrxer 

Fish Chowder Pickles 

Steamed Apple Pudding Molasses Sauce 



January 14 

BresiKfast 

Oat Cereal Oven Broiled Bacon 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit Coffee 

LruncHeoxi or Supper 

Scalloped Fish Bread and Butter 

Orange Salad French Dressing Crackers 

Dinner 

Southern Broiled Chicken Southern Sweet Potatoes 

Corn Croquettes Cottage Cheese Crackers 



January \5 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Oat Meal Muffins 

Baked Apples Coffee 

Lr^EI\cl:\eoI\ 

Scalloped Potatoes Pickles 

Bread and Fruit Mould 

Dinner 

Baked Smelts Sauce Tartare 

French Fried Potatoes 

Steamed Pudding Lemon Cream Sauce 



120 DAILY LIVING 



January 16 

" BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Baked Potatoes Coffee 

Dixiner or LrtincKeon 

Potato Soup Hot Raised Muffins 

Jelly Full Cream Cheese 

Dimiei- or Stipper 

Baked Beans with Tomato Steamed Graham Bread 

Butter Cake Chocolate Frosting 



January 17 

BreaRfast 

Fish Balls Reheated Graham Bread 

Oranges Coffee 

Dinner 

Boiled Chicken Celery Mashed Potatoes 

Potato Balls 
Cranberry Jelly Milk Sherbet 

Tea 
Milk Sherbet Cake 



January 18 



BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Reheated Beans 

Toasted Graham Bread CofiTee 

LrXincHeon 

Hygienic Soup Orange Salad 

Fruit Mayonnaise Dressing Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Chicken and Curried Rice Creamed Celery with Cheese 

Butter Cake Canned Peaches 



HOOD'S MILK 121 



January 19 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Omelet 

White Sauce Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeon 

Macaroni with Cheese Apple Indian Pudding 

Dinner 

Baked Bean Soup Buttered Potatoes 

Fried Flounder Mayonnaise Dressing 

Prune Souffle Whipped Cream 



January 20 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Broiled Potatoes 

Oven Broiled Bacon Coffee 

L-uncHeon 

Cream of Onion Soup Crisp Crackers 

Stewed Prunes Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Broiled Forequarter Chops Boiled Potatoes 

Mashed Turnips Orange Charlotte 



January 21 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

I^tincHeon 

Broiled Tripe Toasted Bread 

Apple Tapioca 

Dinner 

Round Steak with Creole Sauce Mashed Potatoes 

Cottage Cheese Crackers 



122 



DAILY LIVING 



January 22 



BreaiKfast 



Oat Cereal 



Graham Muffins 

L'tmcKeoii 



Fried Potato Cakes 
Coffee 



Creamed Clams 

Orange Marmalade 

Baked Haddock 
Drawn Butter Sauce 



Dinner 

Boiled Potatoes 



Croustades of Bread 
Crackers 

Onion Dressing 
Hot Gingerbread 



January 23 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Indian Griddle Cakes 

Lemon Syrup Coffee 

Dinziei* or LtincKeon 

Hashed Fish Hot Biscuit 

Ginger Cakes Whipped Cream 

Supper or Dinner 

Baked Beans Brown Bread with Raisins 

Pickled Beets Baked Custards 



January 24 

Reheated Beans 
Coffee 

Roast Turkey 
Gravy 



BreaKfast 

Reheated Brown Bread 
Doughnuts 



Dinner 

Stuffing 



Charlotte Russe 



Mashed Potatoes 
Creamed Onions 



Cheese 



Tea 

Celery and Nut Salad in Apples 
Crackers 



Cocoa 



HOOD'S MILK 



123 



January 25 

Wheat Cereal 
Toasted Brown Bread 



BreaRfast 



Reheated Beans 

Coffee 



L'ti.iicHeon or Stipper 

Potato Puff 

Doughnuts Apple Sauce 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Turkey Steamed Rice 

Parsnip Fritters Date Whip 



January 26 

BreaKfast 

Cereal with Dates Milk Toast Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Supper 

Turkey Soup Hot Biscuit 

Cranberry Jelly 

Dinner 

Turkey Croquettes 

French Fried Sweet Potatoes Celery 

Apple Dumplings Molasses Sauce 



January 27 



BreaKfast 



Oat Cereal Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Welsh Rarebit Crackers 

Quinces and Light Cream Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Fish Chowder Mince Pie 



124 DAILY LIVING 

January 28 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Oven Broiled Bacon 

Baked Potatoes 
Coffee Doughnuts 

I^tmcHeon or Supper 

Cream Lima Bean Soup Crisp Crackers 

Orange Marmalade English Muffins 

Dinner 

Scalloped Fish Toasted Bread 

Stewed Figs Light Cream 



January 29 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Supper 

Creole Rice Sliced Bananas and Nuts 

Bread and Butter 

Emergency Soup Cheese Croquettes Cheese Straws 



January 30 

BreaKfast 

Hominy Coffee 

Bananas Baked in the Skin Toasted Bread 

I^txncHeon or Dinner 

Fried Smelts Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

French Fried Potatoes 

Hot Biscuit Baked Apples 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans with Tomato 
Steamed Graham Bread Custard Pie 



HOOD'S MILK 125 



January 31 

BreaRfast 

Reheated Beans Reheated Brown Graham Bread 

Bananas Coffee 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Fried Hominy 

Mashed Potatoes Milk Sherbet 

Tea 
Toasted Bread Cocoa Milk Sherbet 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" Due regard for health, strength and purse requires that food 
shall supply enough protein to build tissue and enough fats and 
carbohydrates for fuel, and that it shall not be needlessly ex- 
pensive. 

^ "Food suppHes the wants of the body in several ways. It 
either — 

" Is used to form the tissues and fluids of the body ; 

" Is used to repair the wastes of tissues ; 

" Is stored in the body for future consumption ; 

" Is consumed as fuel, its potential energy being transformed 
into heat or muscular energy, or other forms of energy required 
by the body ; or, 

" In being consumed, protects tissues or other food from con- 
sumption. 

" Protein forms tissue (muscle, tendon, etc., and fat) and serves 
as fuel. 

" Fats form fatty tissue (not muscle, etc.), and serve as fuel. 

" Carbohydrates are transformed into fat and serve as fuel. 

"All nutrients yield energy in form of heat and muscular 
strength. 

" In being themselves burned to yield energy, the nutrients 
protect each other from being consumed. The protein and fats 
of body tissue are used like those of food. An important use of 
the carbohydrates and fats is to protect protein (muscle, etc.) 
from consumption. W. O. Atwatek, Ph.D., 

" Special Agent in Charge Nutrition Investigations, Office Experiment 
Stations^ United States Department of Agriculture P 



126 DAILY LIVING 



January 1 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

Mix and sift i cup pastry flour, i }^ teaspoons baking 
powder, ^ teaspoon salt, and % tablespoon sugar. 
Mix ^ cup Hood's milk with i of Hood's eggs well 
beaten, and add gradually to the dry ingredients. Fry 
as rice griddle cakes, refer to November 5. Serve with 

Lemon Syrup 

Add yz cup hot water to ^ cup sugar ; boil until the 
syrup is thick, or about 6 minutes. Remove from the 
fire, and add the juice of % lemon. 

Rice with Cheese* Refer to December 4. 

Molasses Cookies* Refer to December 1 5 . 

Canned Peaches* Refer to November 1 8. 

Clam Chowder 

Pick over i pint clams, drain and reserve the liquor. 
With the scissors cut the dark part from the soft part 
of the clams, then cut the heads in small pieces, and lay 
aside from the soft part. Pare, cut in small cubes and 
parboil 5 minutes in boiling water to cover 3 potatoes, 
then drain. Try out 2 slices salt pork, add i onion cut 
in small pieces, and cook onions and pork together until 
onion is brown. Strain fat into potatoes ; add the heads 
of the clams ; dredge well with flour, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper ; add the clam liquor and i % cups boiling 
water. Cook about 10 minutes .or until the potatoes are 
soft, add the soft part of the clams and cook about 2 



HOOD'S MILK 127 



minutes more. Then add 2 cups Hood's milk scalded, 
4 common crackers split, and i tablespoon Hood's butter. 
Do not allow the chowder to boil after the milk is added, 
or it may curdle. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Refer to December 1 8 . 

Jantiary 2 

Boiled Hominy 

Put I cup prepared hominy, 4 cups boiling water, i 
teaspoon salt in the top of the double boiler. Boil 5 
minutes, stirring constantly, then cook over hot water 
I hour, stirring occasionally. 

Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Scalloped Cheese 

Use in alternate layers 2 cups stale bread crumbs and 
I cup grated cheese. Put in baking dish and pour over 
a custard, prepared by using 2 of Hood's eggs well 
beaten, i pint Hood's milk, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Bake about ^ hour in a hot oven. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Apple Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

Molasses Cookies* Prepared January i . 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Steamed Graham Bread 

Sift I cup white flour, 2 teaspoons soda and i tea- 
spoon salt. Add 2 cups graham flour, unsifted. Then 



128 DAILY LIVING 

add Yz cup molasses and 2 cups Hood's milk which has 
been soured and is thick. Steam in a buttered mould 
3^ hours. 

Baked Custards. Refer to November 7. 

Jantiary 3 

Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 
Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Grapefruit 

Cut 2 grapefruit in halves, and with a sharp knife 
loosen the pulp from the skin. Serve i half to each 
person. 

Fowl Southern Style* Refer to November i. 

Hominy Balls 

Shape cold boiled hominy into balls, roll in crumbs, 
then dip in one of Hood's eggs, then in crumbs again. 
Fry in deep fat and drain on brown paper. Serve in 
place of potatoes. 

Creamed Turnips* Refer to December 16. 
Charlotte Russe* Refer to December 13. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 
Molasses Cookies* Prepared January i. 
Cocoa* Refer to December 13. 



HOOD'S MILK 



129 



January 4 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Baked Beans Reheated* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Graham Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Chicken Broth with Rice* 

Add a quantity of cold water to X cup rice, bring to 
the boiling point, drain and add to i quart stock left 
from cooking the fowl. Cook in the double boiler about 
45 minutes, or until soft. Add i quart cold water to the 
left over fowl and cook about }4 hour, adding more water 
if necessary. Add the quart of water drained from the 
fowl and the meat taken from the bones to stock in the 
double boiler. Season with salt and pepper. 

Stewed Prunes* Refer to December 4. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Breaded Lamb Chops* Refer to December 12. 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 

Boiled Parsnips 

Wash and cut in 4 pieces 3 parsnips. Cook in an 
uncovered saucepan in boiling salted water until soft. 
Drain and scrape off the skins. Mash, add i tablespoon 
Hood's butter, and season with salt and pepper. 

Apple Tapioca 

Add I cup cold water to ys cup minute tapioca and 
ji teaspoon salt. Cook in the double boiler until the 
tapioca is transparent, add more water if necessary to 



130 DAILY LIVING 

make a mixture that will pour easily. Pare, quarter and 
core 5 apples. Put in baking dish, add y^ cup sugar 
and the cooked tapioca. Bake in a moderate oven about 
^ hour, or until the apple is soft. 

January 5 

Oat CereaL Refer to December 4. 
Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Entire Wheat Muffins 

Use I cup of entire wheat flour in place of graham 
flour, and prepare as graham muffins, refer to Novem- 
ber 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

White Cream Soup* Refer to November 2. 

Grapefruit and Nut Salad 

Cut 2 grapefruit in halves, remove the pulp with a 
spoon, drain and use the liquid in preparing the French 
dressing in place of vinegar. Arrange the fruit on lettuce 
leaves, sprinkle over yz cup nut meats broken in pieces, 
and pour over a 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Baked Haddock* Refer to November 3. 

Onion Dressing* Refer to November 3. 

Drawn Butter Sauce* Refer to November 3. 

French Fried Potatoes 

Pare and cut potatoes lengthwise in % inch slices, 
and the slices in % inch strips. Soak i hour in cold 



HOOD'S MILK 131 



water. Cover with boiling water and parboil 5 minutes. 
Drain in a strainer for about 10 minutes, shaking occa- 
sionally. Fry about 8 minutes in deep fat, or until soft 
when tried with a fork. Drain on brown paper and 
sprinkle with salt. Fry a few at a time. 

Mince Pie 

Refer to November 26. 

January 6 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Scrambled Eggs with Cheese 

Add % cup Hood's full cream cheese, grated, to 
creamed scrambled eggs, refer to December 2. 

Toasted Breads Refer to November i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Scalloped Fish* Refer to November 1 1 . 

Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Use I cup entire wheat flour in place of i cup white 
flour and make as baking powder biscuit, refer to Novem- 
ber 2. 

Cottage Cheese* Refer to November 5. 

Hot Apple Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

Stuffed Rolled Roast* Refer to November 18. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Mashed Turnip* Refer to November 6. 



132 DAILY LIVING 

Grapefruit and Shredded Lettuce Salad 

Remove the pulp as in grapefruit salad, refer to 
January 5. Take out the membrane which lines the 
sections and leave a clean shell. Shred with the scissors 
y^ as much lettuce as fruit and fill the shells. Just 
before serving garnish with 

Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Refer to December 8 and omit white of Q,g^. 

Jantiary 7 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2, 
Corn Cake« Refer to December i. 
Omelet* Refer to December 5 . 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Turnip Soup* Refer to November 12. 
Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 
Canned Quinces* Refer to November 3. 
Cold Stuffed Roast* Prepared January 6. 

Delmonico Potatoes 

Prepare creamed potatoes, refer to November 4, put 
in baking dish. Add ys cup Hood's full cream cheese 
grated, and cover with buttered crumbs. Refer to 
December Hints for the Housekeeper. Reheat and 
brown the crumbs in a hot oven. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 



HOOD'S MILK 133 



Cranberry Pudding 

Mix y^, cup each molasses and warm water. Sift 
together 2 cups flour and Y^ teaspoon each salt and 
soda, and add to the first mixture with i pint cranberries. 
Steam 3 hours and serve with 

Lemon Cream Sauce 

Cream }{ cup Hood's butter, add ^ cup powdered 
sugar, then add the white of i ^^^ and beat well. When 
ready to serve set the saucepan containing the sauce in 
boiling water over the fire and add the juice of ^ lemon 
and ^ cup boiling water, and stir until creamy. 

Jstntiary 8 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Scrambled Eggs* Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November I. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

Cook I cup macaroni as for macaroni, refer to Decem- 
ber 9. Put in baking dish, add y'l cup Hood's full cream 
cheese, grated, and pour over tomato sauce, refer to 
December 12. Reheat in a hot oven. 

Chocolate Nut Cake 

Cream yi cup butter, add i cup sugar gradually, and 
2 of Hood's eggs well beaten. Mix and sift i^ cups 
flour with 2)^ teaspoons baking powder, and add alter- 
nately with y^ cup Hood's milk to the first mixture. 
Add % cup nut meats cut in small pieces. Bake about 
40 minutes. Frost with 

Boiled Frosting 

Boil I cup sugar and ^ cup water together until it 
threads. Beat whites of 2 of Hood's eggs until stiff. 



134 DAILY LIVING 



Then add the syrup, a few drops at a time, beating until 
stiff between each addition. When the syrup has cooled 
slightly it may be added more rapidly. When cool 
spread on the cake. 

Baked Halibut Refer to December 9. 

Baked Onions* Refer to November 13. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Baldwin Pudding* Refer to December 2. 

January 9 

, Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Fish Souffle 

Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 3 tablespoons 
flour, and gradually i cup Hood's milk. Remove from 
the fire, add the left over halibut, about Yz cup. Add 
the yolks of 3 of Hood's eggs, beaten until thick and 
lemon colored. Season with salt and pepper and cool. 
Beat the whites of the eggs stiff and dry and fold into 
the mixture. Bake about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Entire Wheat Bread 

Scald 2 cups Hood's milk, add i teaspoon salt, ^ cup 
molasses, and when lukewarm add i yeast cake dissolved 
in y^ cup lukewarm water. Then add 2 cups white 



HOOD'S MILK 135 

flour, 3 cups entire wheat flour, and enough more entire 
wheat flour to make it stiff enough to knead. Proceed 
as for bread, refer to November 2. 

Mince Turnover 

Roll out y^ the recipe of pastry )/% inch in thickness 
and cut rounds the size of a small saucer. Put a table- 
spoon of mince meat on the lower centre half. Wet the 
edges of the pastry with cold water and fold the upper 
half over the under half. Prick with a fork and bake 
about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Baked Kidney Beans* Refer to December 26. 
Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 
Cabbage Salad* Refer to November 7. 
Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 
Squash Pie* Refer to November 14. 

January lO 

Baked Sausage* Refer to December 20. 
Apple Rings* Refer to November 2 1 . 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Roast Lamb* Refer to November 22. 
Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i. 
Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Steamed Squash 

Cut the squash remaining from squash pie in small 
pieces, put in a strainer, cover and steam over hot water 



136 DAILY LIVING 

until soft, then rub through the strainer, add 2 table- 
spoons Hood's butter and salt to taste. 

Ginger Ice Cream 

Add ^ cup preserved ginger cut in small pieces to 
vanilla ice cream, refer to November i . 

Chocolate Cake. Prepared January 8. 

Apples Baked In Casserole 

Pare, quarter and core 6 apples, put in heavy baking 
dish, add >^ cup molasses and cover with cold water. 
Cover tightly and cook in a moderate oven about 4 hours, 
adding more water if necessary. Serve cold. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Cocoa* Refer to December 13. 

January 11 

Wheat Cereal. Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

St* Germain Corn Soup 

Add I quart cold water and i onion sliced fine to Yz 
can corn and simmer 1 5 minutes. Drain the liquid and 
press the corn through a sieve. Melt ^ cup Hood's 
butter, add Yi cup flour, then gradually stir in the corn 
broth, and stir until thickened. Then turn into 2Y2, 
cups Hood's milk, scalded. Season with salt and paprika. 

Croutons of Bread* Refer to November 5 . 

Chocolate Nut Cake* Prepared January 8. 



HOOD'S MILK 137 



Sliced Oranges* Refer to December 28. 

Cold Lamb with Gravy- 
Arrange slices of cold roast lamb on a platter, and 
pour reheated gravy over each slice. 

Cabbage Scalloped with Cheese 

Refer to November 5. 

Fried Potato Cakes 

Refer to November 2. 

Apple Pie 

Prepare pastry, refer to November 9, and line a plate. 
Pare, quarter, core and cut in eighths from 5 to 7 apples 
and fill into plate. Sprinkle over ^ cup sugar, few 
gratings nutmeg and i teaspoon Hood's butter. Moisten 
the rim of pastry on the plate with cold water. Fit on 
the upper crust, in which has been cut a few gashes, to 
allow the steam to escape while cooking. Brush over 
the top crust with Hood's milk and bake about 45 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

January 12 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish^ Refer to November 6. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
Kidney Bean Salad* Refer to December 29. 
Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 

Lamb Croquettes 

Melt 2>^ tablespoons Hood's butter, add Ys cup flour, 
and gradually i cup Hood's milk. When thickened 



138 DAILY LIVING 

remove from the fire, add 2 cups cold lamb cut fine, a 
few drops onion juice, salt, paprika and celery salt to 
taste. Spread on a plate to cool and proceed as for 
cheese croquettes, refer to November 9. 

Fried Biscuit 

Shape bread dough as for raised biscuit, refer to 
November 5. When risen, drop into deep fat and fry 
about 6 minutes, drain on brown paper. 

Orange Custard Pudding 

Prepare 3 oranges as sliced oranges, refer to December 
28, and sprinkle with sugar. Scald i cup Hood's milk, 
mix y^ cup sugar, y^ tablespoon flour and the yolk of 
one of Hood's eggs. Pour on the scalded milk, return 
to the double boiler and cook until the mixture coats 
the spoon. Remove from the fire, add a few grains salt, 
y^ teaspoon vanilla and the white of the ^^g beaten stiff. 
Then pour over the prepared oranges. 

January 13 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Eggs 

Prepare white sauce, refer to November 6, and add 3 
of Hood's eggs hard boiled and cut in eighths lengthwise. 
Season with salt and paprika and serve on 

Toasted Bread, Refer to November i , 

Coff ee» Refer to November i . 

Lamb and Potato Stew. Refer to November 24. 

Dressed Lettuce. Refer to November 9. 



HOOD'S MILK 139 



Jellied Figs 

Prepare stewed figs, refer to November 17, add the 
juice of I orange and enough water to make 2 cups of 
liquid. Soften 2 tablespoons granulated gelatin in % 
cup cold water, dissolve in >^ cup boiling water and 
strain into the figs. Mould and chill. Serve with Hood's 
light cream. 

Fish Chowder 

Refer to December 4. 

Steamed Apple Dumplings 

Prepare a double recipe of baking powder biscuit, refer 
to November 2. Pare, quarter and core 5 apples. Put 
in a deep bowl and cover with % of the biscuit mixture, 
baking the remainder as biscuit. Steam the pudding 
i^ hours and dry in the oven about 10 minutes. Serve 
with 

Molasses Sauce 

Refer to December 30. 

Jantiary I4 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit 

Refer to November 12. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 
Scalloped Fish* Refer to November 11. 
Orange Salad* Refer to December i. 
French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 



140 DAILY" LIVING 

Southern Broiled Chicken 

Cut a 2 pound broiler in pieces for serving. Brush 
over with Hood's butter, melted, then dip in soft bread 
crumbs. Put in baking dish. Pour over 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter, melted, and bake about 20 minutes in a 
hot oven. 

Southern Sweet Potatoes 

Arrange 4 boiled sweet potatoes, cut in quarters 
lengthwise, in a baking dish and season with salt. Mix 
2 tablespoons Hood's butter, melted, with 2 tablespoons 
each molasses and hot water, and pour over the potatoes. 
Cook in a hot oven until the liquid is absorbed and the 
potatoes are brown. 

Corn Fritters 

Beat I of Hood's eggs, add i cup flour, 2 teaspoons 
salt, few grains cayenne, ^ can corn, }^ cup Hood's 
milk. Mix well. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat and 
fry. Drain and serve hot. 

January 15 

Wheat Cereal 

Refer to November 2 

Oatmeal Muffins 

Add I cup cold cooked oat cereal to white muffins, 
refer to November 17. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Scalloped Potatoes* Refer to December 17. 

Bread and Fruit Mould. Refer to December 1 1 . 



HOOD'S MILK 141 



Baked Smelts 

Bone i>^ pounds smelts. Lay in buttered baking 
pan, skin side down, season with salt and dredge with 
flour. Baste with melted butter and bake about 10 
minutes in a hot oven. Serve with 

Sauce Tartare 

Omit the white of egg from quick mayonnaise dress- 
ing, refer to December 8, and just before serving add 
few drops onion juice and i teaspoon each chopped 
parsley and pickles. 

French Fried Potatoes. Refer to January 5. 
Steamed Pudding* Refer to November 2. 
Lemon Cream Sauce. Refer to January 7. 

January 16 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Baked Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Potato Soup 

Add }^ cup riced potato to i quart Hood's milk which 
has been scalded with a slice of onion. Melt i }^ table- 
spoons Hood's butter, add 2 tablespoons flour, dilute 
with the hot mixture and stir into the remaining mixture. 
Cook in the double boiler 5 minutes. Strain, season 
with salt, celery salt, paprika. Add ij4 tablespoons 
Hood's butter and i teaspoon chopped parsley. 

Hot Raised Muffins 

Shape bread dough as for raised biscuit, refer to 
November 7. Put in muffin pan, let rise again, brush 



142 DAILY LIVING 

over with Hood's butter, melted, and bake about 25 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Baked Beans with Tomato 

Add I cup canned tomatoes before adding the water 
to baked beans, refer to November 7. 

Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 
Butter Cake* Refer to November 1 1 . 
Chocolate Frosting* Refer to November 1 1 , 

January 17 

Fish Balls* Refer to November 8. 

Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . ' 

Boiled Chickens 

Order 2 two pound broiler chickens, dressed as for 
roasting. Singe, remove the pin feathers and clean. 
Sprinkle the inside with chopped parsley. Truss as for 
roasting and season with salt. Start cooking in i quart 
water, turning frequently. When about half cooked add 
I quart Hood's milk and finish cooking very slowly. 
Remove to platter and thicken i pint of the stock with 
y^ cup flour diluted with cold water to pour. Season 
with salt and pour around the chicken. Garnish with 

Potato Balls 

With the French potato ball cutter cut out balls from 
6 potatoes. Cook about 5 minutes in boihng salted 
water, or until soft. Drain and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. Cut the remaining potatoes in small pieces and 
prepare mashed potatoes, refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 143 



Cranberry Jelly 

Pick over and wash i quart cranberries, add ^ cup 
hot water and boil 15 minutes, then rub through a sieve. 
Add I y^ cups sugar and boil 6 minutes, then turn into 
glasses. 

Milk Sherbet. Refer to November 8. 
Cake. Prepared January 16. 

January 18 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November i. 
Toasted Graham Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Hygienic Soup* Refer to December 2. 
Orange Salad* Refer to December i. 

Fruit Mayonnaise Dressing 

Mix y^ teaspoon each salt and sugar, and the yolks of 
2 of Hood's eggs. Add the juice of y lemon and beat 
well, using the ^gg beater. Then add about % cup oil 
gradually, using the o^gg beater for the mixing. Enough 
for 2 servings. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Refer to November 2. 

Chicken and Curried Rice 

Prepare steamed rice, refer to November 4, cut the 
left over chicken in small pieces and away from the boae. 
Stir into the rice and season with curry powder. 



144 DAILY LIVING 

Creamed Celery and Cheese 

Prepare i cup white sauce, refer to November 6, using, 
if preferred, the left over chicken stock in place of milk. 
Cook until tender i >^ cups celery cut in small pieces, 
drain, add to the sauce with y^ cup Hood's full cream 
cheese, grated. Reheat until the cheese is melted, then 
season with salt. 

Butter Cake* Prepared January i6. 

Canned Peaches* Refer to November i8. 

January 19 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Omelet* Refer to December 5. 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Macaroni with Cheese* Refer to December 9. 

Apple Indian Pudding 

Pare, quarter and core 6 apples, put in baking dish 
and pour over the mixture prepared for Indian pudding, 
and bake as Indian pudding, refer to November 5. 

Baked Bean Soup 

Refer to November 3. 

Buttered Potatoes 

Wash and pare small potatoes, and cook until soft in 
boiling salted water. Melt in a frying pan 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter, turn in the potatoes and stir over the fire 



HOOD'S MILK 145 



until the potatoes are covered with butter. Remove to 
serving dish and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

Fried Flounder 

Order 2 pounds flounder, skinned and boned, to make 
fillets of flounder. Dip the fillets in granulated corn 
meal to which has been added salt. Fry in deep fat, 
about 6 minutes to a kettle, frying 4 pieces at a time. 
Drain on brown paper and serve with 

Mayonnaise Dressings Prepared January 18. 

Prune Souffle* Refer to December 29. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

January 20 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 

Broiled Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in % inch slices lengthwise 
and put in pan with bacon fat left after broiling the 
bacon and brown in a hot oven, turning once. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Cream of Onion Soup* Refer to December i . 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Stewed Prunes* Refer to December 4. 

Broiled Forequarter Chops 

Wipe iy2 pounds chops cut from forequarter lamb. 
Put in broiler and broil from 6 to 8 minutes over a clear 
fire, turning every 10 seconds until well seared over, 
then brown on both sides or broil under the gas flame, 
turning once. 



146 DAILY LIVING 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Mashed Turnips* Refer to November 6. 

Orange Charlotte 

Prepare the recipe for orange jelly, refer to December 
7. When beginning to thicken beat until foamy, then 
fold in the whip from ^ cup Hood's medium cream 
mixed with % cup Hood's milk. Mould and chill. 

January 21 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes^ Refer to December 24. 

Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Broiled Tripe 

Cut I pound tripe in pieces for serving, wipe and dip 
in flour. Put i tablespoon Hood's butter in frying pan, 
and when smoking hot put in tripe and pan broil, turn- 
ing constantly every 10 seconds until browned on both 
sides, and adding more butter if necessary. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Apple Tapioca* Refer to January 4. 

Round Steak 

Cut I pound round steak, cut % of an inch thick, into 
6 pieces, and broil over a clear fire 5 minutes or under 
the gas flame. Remove to platter and pour around the 
meat 

Creole Sauce 

Cook 2 slices each carrot and onion, bit of bay leaf, 
sprig of parsley, 2 cloves, with 2 tablespoons Hood's 



HOOD'S MILK 147 



butter, until slightly yellow. Add 2 y^, tablespoons flour 
and I cup strained tomato. Stir until thickened. Sea- 
son with salt and paprika and strain. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Refer to November i . 

January 22 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 
Fried Potato Cakes. Refer to November 2. 
Graham Muffins. Refer to November 3. 
Coffee^ Refer to November i . 

Creamed Clams 

Prepare i pint clams as for chowder, refer to January 
I and add y^. cup cold water. Melt 3 tablespoons 
butter, add 4 tablespoons flour, and gradually the pre- 
pared clams with the liquid. Simmer 5 minutes, and 
add I cup Hood's milk scalded. Season with salt and 
pepper. Do not allow to boil after adding the milk. 
Serve in and around croustades of bread. 

Croustades of Bread 

Cut slices of bread 2 inches in thickness. Remove 
crusts, and cut the slices in halves. Hollow out the 
centre of each slice to form a box. Brush over with 
Hood's butter melted, and brown in a hot oven. 

Orange Marmalade 

Weigh 4 oranges, sliced in very thin slices, discarding 
any seeds, add an equal weight of sugar, and cook very 
slowly about i >^ hours, or until thick. Fill into glasses. 

Baked Haddock. Refer to November 3. 
Onion Dressing. Refer to November 3. 



148 DAILY LIVING 

Drawn Butter Sauce* Refer to November 3. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Hot Gingerbread* Refer to November 3. 

January 23 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Indian Griddle Cakes 

Add Yi cup corn meal to i cup boiling water, and boil 
5 minutes ; then proceed as for rice griddle cakes. Refer 
to November 5. 

Lemon Syrup* Refer to January i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Hashed Fish. Refer to November 14. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Ginger Cakes* Refer to November 4. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Brown Bread with Raisins 

Add Y cup of cut raisins to mixture and proceed as 
for brown bread. Refer to November 7. 

Pickled Beets 

Boil 2 beets in boiling salted water until soft. Drain, 
cover with cold water, and peel. Then cut in thin slices 
and cover with vinegar, adding more salt if necessary. 

Baked Custards 

Refer to November 7. 



HOOD'S MILK 149 



January 24 

Reheated Beans* Refer to November I . 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Doughnuts* Refer to November 15. 
Roast Turkey* Refer November 26. 
Stuffing* Refer to November 26. 
Mashed Potatoes, Refer to November i. 
Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Creamed Onions 

Prepare boiled onions, refer to November 8, and pour 
over a cream sauce prepared from ^ cup top of bottle 
of Hood's milk and % cup of Hood's light cream, 
scalded together, and thickened with i tablespoon flour 
diluted with cold water to pour. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

Charlotte Russc 

Refer to December 1 3 . 

Celery and Nut Salad 

Cut I cup celery in small pieces, mix with ^ cup 
walnut meats broken in pieces, and moisten with Yo the 
recipe French dressing, refer to November 7, and fill 
into apple shells, prepared as for Christmas salad, 
December 25. A few of the bits of apple may be added 
to the salad. 

Cheese Crackers 

Prepare crackers as for crisp crackers, refer to Decem- 
ber 23. Put a teaspoon of Hood's full cream cheese, 
grated, on each cracker, and cook in the oven until 
the cheese is melted. 



150 DAILY LIVING 

Cocoa 

Refer to December 13. 

January 25 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans^ Refer to November I . 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Potato Puff 

Add to 2 cups hot mashed potato 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter, melted, 2 of Hood's eggs well beaten, i cup 
Hood's milk, salt and pepper to taste. Put in deep 
buttered baking dish, and bake about 20 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

Doughnuts. Prepared January 24. 

Apple Sauce. Refer to December 12. 

Cold Roast Turkey. Prepared January 24. 

Steamed Rice. Refer to November 4. 

Parsnip Fritters 

Prepare parsnips as for boiled parsnips, refer to 
January 4. Shape in small flat round cakes ; roll in 
flour, and brown in a frying pan, using Hood's butter. 

Date Whip 

Beat the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs until stiff ; 
add Ys cup sugar, the juice of % lemon, yi pound dates, 
wiped, stoned, and cut in pieces. Beat ^ cup Hood's 
medium cream until stiff, and fold into the first mixture. 



HOOD'S MILK 



151 



Jantiar^^ 26 

Cereal with Dates 

Add ^ cup dates, wiped, stoned, and cut in pieces to 
wheat cereal, refer to November 2. 

Milk Toast. Refer to December 27. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Turkey Soup 

Put the bones of the turkey in a kettle, half cover with 
cold water and cook, turning occasionally, ^or 2 hours. 
Strain the stock, take the meat from the bones, and add 
to the stock with the left over rice. Season with salt, 
pepper, and celery salt. 

Hot Biscuit. Refer to November 7. 

Cranberry Jelly. Prepared January 17. 

Turkey Croquettes 

Prepare croquettes, using turkey, and proceed as for 
lamb croquettes, refer to January 12. 

French Fried Sweet Potatoes 

Pare and cut in }( inch slices sweet potatoes. Soak 
I hour in cold water, drain and dry about i hour in 
towel ; then proceed as for P^rench fried potatoes, refer 
to January 5. 

Apple Dumplings. Refer to November 4. 

Molasses Sauce^ Refer to December 30. 

January 27 

Oat Cereal Refer to November 4. 
Reheated Baking Powder Biscuits 

Refer to November 12. 



152 DAILY LIVING 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Welsh Rarebit* Refer to November 8. 

Quinces and Cream* Refer to November 3. 

Doughnuts* Prepared January 24. 

Fish Chowder* Refer to December 4. 

Mince Pie* Refer to November 26. 

January 28 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Oven Broiled Bacon. Refer to December 3 . 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Doughnuts. Prepared January 24. 

Cream Lima Bean Soup 

Prepare beans as for stewed lima beans ; when soft 
rub through a sieve. Melt 3 tablespoons Hood's butter, 
add 3 tablespoons flour, and gradually i quart milk ; add 
the bean mixture, stir until thickened, strain again and 
season with salt and pepper. 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Orange Marmalade. Prepared January 22. 

English Muffins 

Add I yeast cake dissolved in }l cup lukewarm water 
to y^ cup of Hood's milk, scalded and cooled, in which i 
tablespoon of Hood's butter has been melted ; add % tea- 
spoon salt and ^ cup flour. Beat until smooth. When 
risen and full of bubbles add i cup more flour, and beat 



HOOD'S MILK 153 



until it is a smooth, tough batter. Then let double in 
bulk. When ready tx) bake, cut in 1 2 pieces, shape with 
floured hands to fit, and half fill muffin rings. Let rise 
to a little more than half fill the rings, then remove 
muffins and rings with a griddle cake turner to a well 
buttered griddle, well heated. Let cook slowly until 
well risen, then brown on both sides. Cool, then split, 
toast, and butter, and serve hot. 

Scalloped Fish* Refer to November 1 1 . 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Stewed Figs. Refer to November 17. 

Jantxary 29 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish. Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Creole Rice 

Cover y^ cup of rice with cold water, bring to the 
boiling point and boil 5 minutes. Then drain and rinse. 
Put in double boiler with 2 cups tomato, and cook until 
rice is soft. Season with onion juice, paprika, and salt. 
Add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, and serve very hot. 

Sliced Bananas and Nuts 

Peel, scrape, and slice 4 bananas, sprinkle with sugar, 
and add % cup nut meats broken in pieces. 

Emergency Soup. Refer to November 5. 

Cheese Croquettes. Refer to November 9. 



154 DAILY LIVING 

Cheese Straws 

Roll out Yz the recipe of pastry^ refer to November 
9 ; sprinkle with Hood's full cream cheese, grated. 
Fold over and roll out again, and sprinkle with more 
cheese, using for the recipe about ^ cup cheese. Roll 
yk inch in thickness, cut in strips about 4 inches long 
and % inch wide, lay on brown paper in a baking pan, 
and bake about 8 minutes in a moderate oven. 

January 30 

Boiled Hominy^ Refer to January 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Bananas Baked in the Skin 

Remove the skin from one section of each of 4 
bananas, loosen the banana in the skin, then put back the 
other section. Lay in a plate, and bake about 10 minutes 
in a hot oven, or until the skin has turned black and the 
banana is soft. Remove from the skin before serving. 
Under ripe bananas are better for baked bananas. 

Toasted Bread 

Refer to November i. . 

Fried Smelts 

Bone the smelts, season with salt, dip in corn meal 
and fry about 5 minutes in deep fat. Drain on brown 
paper, and serve with 

Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Refer to December 8. 

French Fried Potatoes. Refer to January 5. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 155 



Baked Beans with Tomato* Refer to January 16. 
Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 

Custard Pie 

Line a plate with ^ the recipe of pastry and build 
up a rim ; add Y^, cup sugar to 3 of Hood's eggs, 
slightly beaten ; add a few grains salt, a few gratings 
nutmeg, and 2 cups Hood's milk. Fill into the lined 
plate, and bake about i hour in a very slow oven. 

Jamtiarx 31 

Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 
Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Pot Roast* Refer to December 6. 

Fried Hominy 

Cut the hominy left from January 30 into 2-inch 
squares about >^ inch thick. It will cut better if it has 
been moulded in a mould, and then turned out for the 
cutting. Brown on both sides in a smoking hot frying 
pan, using Hood's butter. 

Mashed Potatoes. Refer to November i. 

Milk Sherbet. Refer to November 8. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Cocoa* Refer to December 16. 



156 



DAILY LIVING 



Cost of l<iving for January 



January 1=8 

1^2 doz. eggs at 46 cts $ 

2)4 lbs. butter at 39 cts 

13 qts. milk 

9 half pint jars light cream. . 

I cottage cheese 

^2 lb. full cream cheese 

Coffee 

Cereal 

Flour 

Sugar 

Spices and salt 

Molasses and vinegar 

Rice 

1 lemon 

Peaches 

Clams, I pint 

Chocolate 

Hominy 

Codfish 

2 yeast cakes 

Apples 

Pea beans 

}4 lb. salt pork 

Chili sauce and pickles 

Indian meal and graham flour 

6 grapefruit 

5 lbs. fowl 

Potatoes 

Quinces 

2 lbs. round steak cut whole 

Lettuce 

Crackers, % lb 

I pt. cranberries 

Lard 

Vegetables 

Cocoa 

I lb. prunes 

ij^ lbs. forequarter chops. . . 

Tapioca and vanilla 

Entire wheat flour 

Nuts 

Oil 

4 lbs. haddock 

Mince meat 

Tomato 

Total for i week. . . A 



0.69 
.98 

1. 17 
•63 
•05 
.1 1 
.28 
.06 
.20 
.18 

•03 
.04 

•03 
.02 
.08 
.10 

•03 
.02 
.02 
.04 
.10 
.08 
.08 
.06 
•03 
•50 
•75 
.08 
.10 
.40 
.08 

•03 
.06 

•05 
.08 
.01 
.12 

•15 

.04 
.02 
.05 
.18 
.28 
•05 
•03 

J8!o7 



January S-'IS 

13 qts. milk $i-i7 

2yi lbs. butter at 39 cts 98 

9 half pint jars light cream. . .63 
Cottage cheese 05 

1 doz. eggs 46 

X' lb. full cream cheese 06 

Coffee 28 

Cereal 08 

Flour 20 

Sugar 24 

Spices and salt 03 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Apples 10 

Potatoes 10 

Kidney beans 10 

Macaroni 03 

Nuts, shelled walnuts 05 

Chocolate, 2 squares 05 

lyi lbs. halibut. 30 

Onions 04 

Meal 05 

Mince meat 03 

Lard 08 

Pork, salt 08 

Cabbage, 3 lbs 09 

Squash, 3 lbs 09 

I lb. sausage 16 

5 lbs. short leg of lamb 90 

Canton ginger 05 

Vanilla 03 

Molasses and vinegar 08 

Cocoa 02 

Can corn 12 

1 doz. oranges 25 

Codfish 02 

Rice 01 

Lettuce 08 

}^ lb. figs 08 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

Pickles 03 

Baking powder 03 

Oil, Yz cup 10 

% lb. bacon 04 

Crackers 05 

2 lb. broiler 50 



Total f8.24 



HOOD'S MILK 



157 



January 1 5 '22 

12 qts. milk ;^i.o8 

7 half pint jars light cream. . .49 

2^ lbs. butter at 39 cts 98 

I doz. eggs 45 

Yi lb. full cream cheese 11 

I cottage cheese 05 

I jar medium cream 10 

Coffee 28 

Cereal 08 

Flour 20 

Sugar 24 

Spices and salt 03 

Molasses and vinegar 04 

Potatoes 10 

Apples 10 

Oil 20 

Pickles 04 

I pt. canned fruit 10 

i^ lbs. smelts 23 

4 lemons 08 

Codfish 05 

Jelly 05 

Tomatoes 03 

Chocolate 03 

Cranberry jelly 06 

4 lbs. broilers i.oo 

Celery 12 

1 doz. oranges 25 

Nuts 03 

Rice 03 

Peaches 10 

Macaroni 03 

2 lbs. flounder 30 

Bacon 04 

I lb. prunes 12 

xYz lbs. forequarter chops. . . .18 

Turnips 03 

Gelatin 02 

I lb. tripe 12 

I lb. top of round 25 

Baking powder 03 

Total for week ^7.85 



January 2 2 SI 

18 qts. milk ^1.62 

I cottage cheese 05 

12 jars light cream 84 

i^ doz. eggs at 45 cts 68 

Yz lb. full cream cheese 11 

3 lbs. butter at 39 cts 1.17 

I jar medium cream 10 

I lb. coffee 35 

Cereal 08 

Flour 20 

Sugar . 24 

Spices and salt 03 

3 yeast cakes 06 

Apples and potatoes 20 

Clams, I pt 10 

Marmalade 06 

Haddock, 4 lbs 28 

Molasses and vinegar 03 

4 lemons 08 

Raisins 02 

Baked beans and pork, ^ lb. .16 

Vegetables 08 

Celery 12 

Shelled walnuts 10 

Oil 05 

Lettuce 08 

Turkey, 8 lbs 2.00 

Rice .03 

I lb. dates 10 

Lard 05 

Crackers .05 

Quinces 10 

Mince meat 05 

Bacon 03 

Lima beans 03 

>^ lb. figs 08 

Codfish 02 

I doz. bananas 20 

Smelts, I Yz ll^s 23 

Tomatoes 03 

Hominy 02 

Cocoa 02 

Ice and salt 05 

Y2, of pot roast, 4 lbs. 60 cts. .20 
Baking powder 02 

Total 510.20 

Total for month ^34.36 



158 



DAILY LIVING 



L-oMrering tHe Cost 



January 1 =8 

7 half pint jars light cream. .$0.49 

Omit pickles 04 

Chili sauce 04 

Baked custards 13 

Grapefruit, 50 cts., use apples, 

5 cts 45 

Scrambled eggs with cheese, 
15 cts., serve creamed 

codfish, 4 cts II 

Cottage cheese 05 

Make a double recipe English 
beef soup, 16 cts., in 
place of stuffed roast, 
40 cts 24 

5S^i-55 



January 8=15 

Omit 7 jars light cream ^0.49 

Coffee 28 

Cake 25 

I doz. oranges, 25 cts., serve 

apples, 5 cts 20 

Pickles '.03 

Ginger from ice cream 05 

Serve broiled lamb chops, 18 
cts., in place of chicken, 
50 cts 32 

^1.62 



January 15=22 

7 jars cream ^0.49 

Medium cream 10 

Coffee 28 

Oranges, 25 cts., serve apples, 

5 cts 

Celery 

Pickles 05 

Jelly 05 



.20 
.12 



$1-29 



January ll^Sl 

10 jars light cream ^0.70 

Omit 6 eggs for breakfast, 23 

cts., use bacon, 8 cts 15 

Doz. bananas, 20 cts., use 

apples, 5 cts 15 

Celery 12 

Marmalade 06 

Raisins 02 

Omit fig dessert 08 

Coffee 35 

Serve fowl, vSouthern style, 

75 cts., in place of turkey, 

$2.00 1.25 

^2.88 
Total for month ^7-34 



HOOD'S MILK 159 



Hints for the Housekeeper 

Always wipe meat and fish with a damp cloth, 
rather than wash under the faucet, which always ex- 
tracts the juices. 

To remove fat from hot stock, lay pieces of tissue 
paper on top of the stock, which will absorb the fat, 

Xo remove fat from cold stock, take off in a cake 
of fat. 

Xo clear soup stock, allow the white and shell of i 
egg to each quart of stock. Stir constantly until the 
boiling point is reached, let boil 5 minutes without 
stirring, add ^ cup cold water, let stand 5 minutes 
without boiling; then strain through cheese cloth placed 
over a fine strainer. 

To clarify fat, cut up a pared raw potato and lay 
on top of the cold fat. Heat very slowly until the 
potato has browned, then strain through cheese cloth 
placed over a strainer. 

Poultry should always be washed in cold water. 

Cheese will keep moist by wrapping in a dampened 
cloth, and keeping in a cool place. 

The whites of eggs will keep for a few days if put 
into a jar and covered. In turning out for the separat- 
ing, each white will drop separate. 

The Yolks of eggs will keep if stirred together, 
then put into a small bowl and covered. 

Raisins and codfish may be cut using the scissors. 

Lettuce is shredded better with the scissors. 

Confectioner^s sugar should be sifted before using, 
to remove any lumps. 

Flour may be sifted in quantity ready for use. 



i6o DAILY LIVING 



Chafing Dish 



Creole Oysters 

Clean i pint oysters, cook until plump, drain, and 
reserve the liquor. Cook 3 tablespoons Hood's butter 
with 3 cloves, a bit of bay leaf, a slice each of carrot and 
onion and few grains celery salt. Remove seasonings, add 
3 tablespoons flour, and pour on gradually ^ cup oyster 
liquor and i cup stewed and strained tomatoes. Re- 
heat the oysters in the sauce, add salt, pepper, and serve 
with crackers. 

Devilled Scallops 

Clean i pint scallops, heat to boiling point, drain and 
reserve the liquor. Melt 3 tablespoons Hood's butter, 
add 2 tablespoons flour mixed with ^ teaspoon salt, ^ 
teaspoon mustard and a few grains paprika. Pour on 
gradually the reserved liquor. When the sauce begins 
to thicken add the scallops. Serve with brown bread 
sandwiches. 

Eggs with Tomato and Green Peppers 

Remove seeds and veins from ^ green pepper. Scald 
3 tomatoes. Remove the skins and cut in quarters. 
Cook pepper and tomatoes in i tablespoon Hood's but- 
ter until liquid is reduced and season with salt. Melt 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter, pour in 3 eggs beaten until 
thick, and season with salt. Stir and cook until eggs 
become creamy. Serve the two dishes together. 

Scotch Woodcock 

Melt I Yz tablespoons Hood's butter, add i J^ table- 
spoons flour, and pour on gradually i cup Hood's milk ; 
add ^ teaspoon salt, few grains paprika and curry 
powder. Add 4 of Hood's eggs, hard boiled and finely 
chopped. Serve on toasted bread. 



HOOD'S MILK i6i 



Stewed Mushrooms 

Wash, peel, and break in pieces ^ pound mushrooms. 
Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add the mushrooms 
and a few drops onion juice. Cook 3 minutes, then add 
I cup Hood's light cream and cook 3 minutes more. Sea- 
son with salt if necessary. 

Creamed Cheese 

Melt I tablespoon Hood's butter, add 2 teaspoons 
cornstarch mixed with a few grains each salt, paprika, 
and mustard ; add i^ cup Hood's light cream and cook, 
using the hot pan under the blazer, until the sauce is 
thickened and well heated. Then add 2 cups Hood's 
full cream cheese cut in small pieces. Stir until the 
cheese is melted, and serve on crackers. 

Lobster Stew 

Scald I pint Hood's milk, add ^ cup finely cut lobster 
meat and cook 1 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper, 
add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, and just before serving 
% cup clam water. 

Fricassee of Lobster and Mushrooms 

Remove the meat from i % pounds lobster and cut 
in pieces. Cook j^ cup Hood's butter with % pound 
fresh mushrooms, broken in pieces, or >^ can, drained 
and rinsed, and few drops onion juice, 3 minutes. Add 
% cup flour, and pour on gradually i y^ cups Hood's 
milk ; add lobster and season with salt and pepper. 
When heated serve with puff paste or crackers. 

Oysters and Cream 

Scald I cup Hood's light cream and add 2 dozen 
oysters well drained, washed and cleaned. When the 
oysters are plump add 2 of Hood's Qgg yolks diluted with 
% cup more cream. When heated season with salt and 
pepper and serve on toast. 



i62 DAILY LIVING 

Victoria Chicken 

Cook I slice onion with 2 tablespoons Hood's butter 
until soft, add 2 tablespoons flour, when blended add % 
cup chicken stock and ^ cup tomato juice. When 
thickened add % cup cooked fowl cut in cubes and }4 
cup cooked and drained peas. When heated season with 
salt and paprika and serve on toast. 

Lobster Creole 

Chop fine 2 tablespoons each of tomato and green 
pepper and i slice onion and cook in i tablespoon 
Hood's butter until softened. Add ^ cup chicken stock 
and let simmer 3 minutes, add i }4 cups lobster meat 
cut in small pieces and salt if needed. Serve very hot. 

McDonald Chicken 

Melt 3 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 3 tablespoons 
flour and gradually i ^ cups Hood's milk ; when thick- 
ened add I cup each of chicken and potato cut in small 
pieces and 6 pimolas. Season with salt and pepper. 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" As an article of diet in disease milk occupies a unique position. 
No single food, it may safely be said, is of so much value. . . . 
Being in a fluid form, it is easily swallowed. This is a great gain 
in the case of exhausted patients. For the same reason, the 
quantity given can be very simply regulated and measured. Its 
fluid form also enables it to be used as a substitute for other 
beverages, and a glass of milk with each meal is one of the 
simplest prescriptions for increasing the amount of nourishment a 
patient is taking. It is often recommended to people who require 
to be ' fed up.' 

"Robert Hutchinson, M.D., Edin., F.R.C.P., 

" Assistant Physician to the London Hospital and to the Hospital for Sick 
Children. Great Ormand Streets 



Month of February 



Cuts of Meat 



Choose the beef which is firm to the touch, bright 
red in color, having a firm yellow fat, and the meat well 
streaked with fat, knowing that the larger proportion of 
fat the less proportion of water, and so the heavier beef. 
We would not order a cut used for roast or steaks if 
we wished to make croquettes, as for those one of the 
cheaper cuts would give good results. Yet there is just 
as much nourishment in the cheaper cuts as in the more 
expensive, provided we know how to properly cook and 
use them. Right through we find that the parts which 
have the most exercise have the tougher muscles, and so 
give us the less expensive cuts of meat, which are also 
not as tender. We find also that the exercise of the 
muscles causes the juices to flow freely, so that the 
tougher or more inexpensive cuts of meat often contain 
the most juice. 

We find in the market that the beef creature is 
divided into 2 parts, each of which is known as a side 
of beef. Then each side is divided into fore and hind 
quarter, having lO ribs in the forequarter and 3 in the 
hindquarter. In the hindquarter, beginning with the 
cut which separates it from the forequarter, we find 
first the tip of the sirloin, which makes a good roast. 
Then we find next the middle cut for roasts and steaks, 
and then the first cut. ^ So right through the hind- 
quarter is sold either for roasts or steaks. Let us look 
now at the hindquarter as a whole. In the hindquarter 
the bone is always curved, and in the forequarter the 
rib bone is straight. This curved bone has on the 

165 



i66 DAILY LIVING 



under side, with no chance for the exercise of muscles, a 
very tender piece of meat, known as the tenderloin. 
On account of the lack of exercise of the muscles, the 
meat also is lacking in juice. The sirloin steak, includ- 
ing the tenderloin, is sold in some markets as the 
porterhouse. The fillet of beef is cut from the tender- 
loin. Steak to give good results should be cut from i 
to I y2 inches in thickness, and should be served rare. 
There is more loss by weight during broiling than by 
any other method of cooking. Rare beef contains more 
nourishment than that which is well cooked by either 
roasting or broiling. We should always wipe the meat 
with a dampened cloth rather than wash it under the 
faucet, as cold water extracts the juices of the meat ; 
also for the same reason meat should always be re- 
moved from the paper as soon as delivered. Next comes 
the rump. We have here three cuts : the first, second 
and third, varying in price on account of the tenderness. 
The rump also has a small piece of tenderloin. The 
rump is used either for steaks or roasts ; then we have 
the aitchbone, which is used either for roasts, stews or 
soups. Next comes the leg, which, again, is divided into 
three parts : the top and lower part of the round, and the 
vein. The second or third cut from the top of the 
round is preferred by many for steak, as it is tender, 
and also contains a great deal of juice. The top of the 
round has less exercise than the lower part, and so is 
more tender, and at the same time more expensive. 
We use the lower part of the round for a long, slow 
cooking, like soup or stew. Meat cooked and then 
served in the stock contains all of the nourishment of 
the meat. 

Down on the leg the muscles increase, so the meat is 
not as tender. We also use the round steaks and the 
veins for the making of beef tea. The actual cost of 
beef juice extracted from these cuts is about 5 cents an 
ounce. Still lower down is the hind shin for soups and 



HOOD'S MILK 167 



soup stock. The lower and middle cuts together make 
a desirable cut for soup stock, and in making this we 
always allow i pint of cold water to i pound of meat. 
The flank is nearly always corned. In the forequarter, 
next to the tip of the sirloin, we find the ribs used for 
roasting. The first five make good roasts, beyond that 
they are not quite as tender, but, boned and rolled, would 
make a good pot roast, as it requires slower cooking. 
Then we find the brisket, used for corning, the thick 
end and the fancy brisket. The fancy brisket is told by 
the absence of bone and the outer selvage of meat. 
Then there is the neck, which is sold for stews and for 
mince-meat. There is left the tongue, which is boiled, 
the tripe from one of the stomachs, and the kidney. 

Looking at the lamb and mutton, we find they are 
told by the pink color of the meat, which is firm to the 
touch, and a fat, white in color, which, if fresh, crumbles 
easily. We tell the difference between the lamb and 
the mutton by the bone. The bone in the mutton 
breaks at the ankle as a firm white knuckle, and in the 
lamb it breaks lower down as a pink serrated or divided 
bone. The bone in the lamb is always porous, filled 
with blood, and pink in color ; in the mutton, the blood 
has receded, and the bone is white and firm. Poor 
lamb is told by the absence of fat. The lamb in the 
market is split through the backbone the entire length 
of the creature. Each side is divided into fore and hind 
quarter, having 8 ribs in the hindquarter and 5 in the 
forequarter. The eight ribs in the hindquarter are cut 
into chops. The meat which lies between the leg or the 
ribs is cut up and sold for either loin or kidney chops. 
The loin chop has a small piece of tenderloin on the 
underside of the bone. The leg is sold for roasting or 
boiling. The forequarter is sometimes roasted, but more 
often is sold for stews, or long, slow cooking. The 
chops in the forequarter are sold for broiling. Good 
mutton ranks with beef in nutritive value, lamb a little 



i68 DAILY LIVING 



less. All immature meat, like lamb, chicken, or veal, 
does not contain as much nourishment as the more 
matured meat, like mutton, fowl, and beef. In the fore- 
quarter of the veal is found the breast, shoulder, and 
neck, and in the hindquarter, the loin, leg, and knuckle. 
Because it is immature, veal does not keep long. All 
good meat may be spoiled by wrong cooking. In broil- 
ing and roasting the heat should be intense at first, to 
sear over the surface and prevent the escape of the 
juices; then it should be cooked more slowly or at a 
lower temperature, to cook the meat through to the 
centre. All meat should be simmered below the boiling 
point and never boiled rapidly, which hardens the fibres 
and destroys the juices. So with proper cooking may 
be obtained good serving with good results from the 
cheaper cuts of meat as well as the most expensive, and 
there is as much nourishment in one as in the other, 
provided we know how to properly cook and serve the 
different cuts of meat. 



HOOD'S MILK 169 



\ 



Febru ary I 

"^ ~" BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Brown Bread 

Milk Toast Coffee 

]L.txi\ct\eon or Stopper 

Spanish Omelet Toasted Bread 

J ,-,. Light Cream 

Stewed Figs ^ 

Dinner 

Cottage Pie Stewed Tomatoes 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 



February 2 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Baked Beans 

Corn Muffins Coffee 

LxincKeon or Stipper 

Broiled Oysters Luncheon Rolls 

Orange Marmalade 

Dinner 

Cold Pot Roast With Gravy Mashed Potatoes 

Winter Spinach Rice Puddmg 



February 3 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Reheated Rolls 

Potato Cakes ^°^®® 

LtxncKeon or Stxpper 

Cream of Spinach Soup Cheese Croutons 

Banana and Lettuce Salad French Dressmg 

Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

English Beef Soup Steamed Rice 

Maine Gingerbread 



170 



DAILY LIVING 



February 4 



Rice Muffins 
Coffee 



BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal 

Orange Marmalade 

L>tincl\eoi\ or Supper 

Potato Salad on Lettuce Leaves 

Whipped Cream Dressing 
Ginger Cakes Cottage Cheese 



Fish Chowder 



Dinner 

Banana Custard 



Pickles 



February 5 



Oat Cereal 



BreaRfast 



Baked Potatoes 



Creamed Codfish 
Coffee 



I^uiicHeon or Stipper 



Split Pea Soup 

Baked Bananas 

Dinner 

Fish Croquettes 

French Fried Potatoes 

Whipped Cream Dressing 



Crisp Crackers 

Bread and Butter 

Cheese Sauce 
Cabbage and Nut Salad 
Bread and Butter 



February 6 



BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal 

Oven Broiled Bacon 



Coffee 
Baked Potatoes 



Dinner or Lrtinclieon 

Casserole of Lamb Chops Boiled Cabbage 

Rice with Cheese 
Baked Apples Hot Biscuit 

Dinner or Supper 

Boston Baked Beans Boston Brown Bread 

Chili Sauce 
Buttermilk Doughnuts Apple Sauce 



HOOD'S MILK 



171 



February 7 



BreaKfast 

Reheated Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Buttermilk Doughnuts Coffee 

Dinner 

Roast Chicken with Oyster Stuffing 

Boiled Onions Rice and Cheese Balls 

Orange Milk Sherbet 

Tea 

Toasted Bread Cocoa Orange Milk Sherbet 



February 8 



BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal 
Reheated Beans 



Coffee 
Toasted Brown Bread 



I^uncHeon or Stipper 

Creamed" Chicken on Toast 

Buttermilk Doughnuts Cottage Cheese 

Dinner 

Hot Corned Beef Boiled Potatoes 

Boiled Turnips Parsnips 

Orange Jelly with Nuts Bread and Butter 



February 9 



BreaKfast 



Oat Cereal 

Corn Cake 



Hashed Brown Potatoes 
Coffee 



LtincHeon or Supper 

Turnip Cream Soup 
Entire "Wheat and Nut Biscuit Orange Marmalade 

Corned Beef Croquettes Tomato Sauce 

Parsnip Cakes 
Entire Wheat Nut Bread Orange Tarts 



172 DAILY LIVING 



February \0 

■^~"^"~~~~ BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Scrambled Eggs with Tomato 

Toasted entire Wheat Bread Coffee 

L'tmcHeoii or Supper 

Emergency Soup Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

Dinner 

Cream of Corn Soup Corned Beef Hash 

Pickled Beets Jellied Prunes 



February U 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Indian Griddle Cakes * Lemon Syrup 

LrtincKeon or Supper 

Macaroni with Cheese 

Squash Biscuit Stewed Prunes 

Dinner 

Fried Halibut Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Potato Croquettes Cranberry Pie 



February 12 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Squash Biscuit Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Stxpper 

Potato Soup Cheese Croutons 

Peaches Whipped Cream 

Smelts Baked in Cream 
Shredded Fried Potatoes Baldwin Pudding 



HOOD'S MILK 173 



February \3 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Baked Potatoes 

Oven Broiled Bacon Coffee 

L-uncHeon or Dinner 

Scalloped Oysters Hot Biscuit 

Orange Trifle 

Dinner or S\xpper 

Baked Beans Steamed Graham Bread 

Chili Sauce Baked Custards 



February 14 

BreaKfast 

Fish Balls Graham Bread 

Coff"ee Grapefruit 

Dinner 

Stuffed Leg of Lamb Cracker Stuffing 

Currant Jelly Sauce Boiled Squash . 

Steamed Rice Vanilla Ice Cream ^ 

Tea 
Welsh Rarebit Crackers 



February 1 5 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Rice Griddle Cakes Coffee 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

White Nut Cakes Baked Apples 

Dinner 

Sliced Cold Lamb Peas Creamed 

Mashed Potatoes Reheated Gravy 

Chocolate Charlotte 



174 DAILY LIVING 



February \6 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes 

Bread and Butter Coffee 

L'UncHeon or Stipper 

Baked Bean Cream Soup 

Crisp Crackers Boiled Dressing 

Asparagus Salad Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Lamb and Pea Stew Boiled Potatoes 

Nut Cakes Cottage Cheese 



February 17 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Asparagus on Toast, with Melted Butter 
Celery and Nut Salad Crackers 

Dinner 

Roast Pork Gravy Boiled Potatoes 

Boiled Onions Rice Pudding 



February 18 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Oven Broiled Bacon Coffee 

LtincHeon or Stipper 

Sweet Potato Soup Cheese Balls with Dressed Lettuce 

Crisp Crackers 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Pork Boiled Potatoes 

Mashed Turnips Tapioca Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 175 

February 19 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Corn Cake Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Creole Oysters Toasted Bread 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes Maple Syrup 

Dinner 

Baked Stuffed Halibut Mashed Potatoes 

Delmonico Celery 
Apple Dumplings Molasses Sauce 



February 20 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit Coffee 

Dinner or I^uncKeon 

Baked Cod with Tomato Sauce Fried Potato Cakes 

Hot Fried Biscuit Maple Syrup 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Kidney Beans Steamed Brown Bread with Raisins 

Butter Cake Maple Frosting 



February 21 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee Grapefruit 

Dinner 

Casserole of Chicken Potato Balls 

Julienne Vegetables 
Hot Indian Pudding Vanilla Ice Cream 

Tea 
Welsh Rarebit Crackers 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 



176 DAILY LIVING 

February 22 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Oven Broiled Bacon 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Coffee 

L-tincHeon or Supper 

Vegetable Salad Cream Boiled Dressing 

Brown and White Bread Sandwiches Butter Cake 

Dinner 

Scotch Broth Irish Moss Blanc Mange 



February 23 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LtincHeon or Supper 

Baked Apples Fruit Biscuit 

Butter Cake Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Lamb Boiled Potatoes 

Steamed Graham Pudding Foamy Sauce 



February 24 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

L>tincHeon or Supper 

Lamb Barley Broth Cheese Croutons 

Apple Fritters Currant Jelly Sauce 

Dinner 

Baked Fillets of Flounder Shredded Potatoes 

Cream Dressing Mince Pie 



HOOD'S MILK 177 



February 25 

BreaKfast 

Indian Meal Mush Baked Apples 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tmcKeon or Stxpper 

Cream of Pea Soup Crisp Crackers 

Peaches and Cream Ginger Drop Cakes 

Dinner 

Broiled Chicken Steamed Rice 

Boiled Onions 

Cottage Cheese Crackers 



February 26 

BreaKfast 

Fried Mush Maple Syrup 

Apple Sauce Rice Muffins Coffee 

I^\ii\cKeoi\ or Stipper 

Salt Fish Hash Butter Milk Rolls 

Ginger Drop Cakes 

Dinner 

Fried Cod Steak Butter Gravy 

Boiled Potatoes Pickles 

Queen Pudding 



February 27 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Hashed Fish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

Dinner or LtxncHeon 

Corn Chowder Reheated Buttermilk Rolls 

Ginger Drop Cakes Tea 

Dinner or Stipper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Chili Sauce Caramel Custards 



178 DAILY LIVING 

February 28 

BreaRfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Corn Cake 

Coffee Oranges 

Dinner 

Roast Beef Roast Potatoes Yorkshire Pudding 

Mashed Turnips Milk Sherbet 

Tea 

Eggs, with Tomato Sauce (Chafing Dish) 
Toasted Brown Bread 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" Do not try to raise cream on milk that has been stirrea up 
when cold, and thgn complain to the milkman because there is no 
cream in the milk. Try warming it to blood heat before setting 
it away." 

State Board of Agriculture^ Nature Leaflet No. 40. 



HOOD'S MILK 179 



Febrtiary 1 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Brown Bread Milk Toast 

Toast the brown bread, refer to November 2, and pre- 
pare as milk toast, refer to December 27. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Spanish Omelet 

Prepare scrambled eggs, refer to November 4 ; when 
creamy spread evenly and brown on bottom. Prepare 

Spanish Sauce 

Refer to December 28. Spread the lower half of the 
omelet with the sauce, then fold and turn onto platter, 
and pour remaining sauce around omelet. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Stewed Figs with Light Cream 
Refer to November 17. 

Cottage Pie 

Put half of remaining pot roast through meat chopper 
and season with salt. Put a layer of left over mashed 
potatoes in baking dish, then cover with a layer of meat 
and repeat, having 3 layers of potato and 2 of meat. 
Reheat about 10 minutes in a hot oven. 

Stewed Tomatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding* Refer to December 18. 

Febrtiary 2 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 



i8o DAILY LIVING 

Corn Muffins* Refer to December i6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Broiled Oysters 

Pick over and drain i pint oysters. Dip in Hood's 
butter, melted, then fine rolled cracker crumbs. Put in 
broiler and broil over a clear fire until the juices begin 
to flow, or put in a pan and broil under the gas flame. 

Luncheon Rolls 

Scald 2 cups Hood's milk, add 3 tablespoons each 
sugar and Hood's butter and i teaspoon salt. When 
lukewarm add i yeast cake dissolved in ^ cup luke- 
warm water, and 3 cups flour. Beat well, and let rise 
until light, add about 3 cups more flour, and knead 
until light. Let rise until double in bulk, knead again, 
and shape ^ into a loaf of bread, and finish as bread, 
refer to November i. Cut the other half into 24 pieces 
and shape as biscuit, refer to November 7. Then roll 
out with a small rolling pin or the handle of a wooden 
spoon. Butter the upper and lower edges with Hood's 
butter, melted. Fold the roll through the middle, press 
the buttered edges together, let rise again, and bake 
about 12 minutes, on an inverted pan, in a hot oven. 

Orange Marmalade* Prepared January 22. 
Cold Pot Roast* Refer to cold lamb, January 11. 
Mashed Potatoes. Refer to November I . 

Winter Spinach 

Pick over, discarding the wilted leaves, and cut the 
roots from ^ peck spinach. Wash in several waters, 
until the last water is clear. Drain, put in a kettle, 
without any water, and cook uncovered about 25 minutes, 
or until tender, stirring occasionally. Drain, season 



HOOD'S MILK i8i 



with salt, and cut in small pieces, using a knife and fork. 
Add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter. 

Rice Pudding 

Refer to December 14. 

February 3 

Oat Cereal Refer to November 4. 

Reheated Rolls 

Refer to baking powder biscuit, November 12. 

Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Use I cup left over spinach, finely chopped, and pro- 
ceed as for turnip cream soup, refer to November 12. 
Strain before serving. 

Cheese Croutons 

Prepare croutons of bread, refer to November 12, and 
sprinkle with Hood's full cream cheese, after browning, 
and put in hot oven to melt the cheese. 

Banana and Lettuce Salad 

Shred Y^ head lettuce, slice 4 bananas, lay on the 
lettuce, and pour over a 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

English Beef Soup* Refer to December 29. 

Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Maine Gingerbread* Refer to November 3. 



i82 DAILY LIVING 

February 4 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Rice Muffins 

Add % cup rice to flour in white muffins, refer to 
November 17, and proceed as for white muffins. 

Orang:e Marmalade* Prepared January 22. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Potato Salad 

Cut 6 cold boiled potatoes in small cubes, season with 
salt and onion juice, and moisten with salad dressing. 
Mound on lettuce leaves. 

Whipped Cream Dressing 

Mix I teaspoon each salt, sugar, 2 teaspoons flour, 5^ 
teaspoon mustard and a few grains paprika ; add the yolk 
of I of Hood's eggs and Ys cup vinegar. Cook over hot 
water until thickened. Then add the white of the ^gg 
beaten stiff; cool, and fold in % cup Hood's medium 
cream beaten thick. Use ^ recipe for a serving. 

Ginger Cakes* Prepared February 3. 

Fish Chowder* Refer to December 4. 

Banana Custard* Refer to orange custard, January 1 2 . 

February 5 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 



HOOD'S MILK 183 



Split Pea Soup 

Soak I cup split peas over night in cold water to 
cover. In the morning drain, add i quart cold water, 
and cook until soft ; add more water if necessary to keep 
the peas covered. Cook 3 slices salt pork and i slice 
onion together until browned ; add to the peas and cook 
together about 10 minutes. Then rub through a sieve, 
and add i quart Hood's milk. Melt 4 tablespoons 
Hood's butter, add 3 tablespoons flour, and gradually the 
liquid ; there should be about 3 pints. Stir until thick- 
ened, and season with salt and pepper. 

Crisp Crackers^ Refer to December 23. 

Baked Bananas* Refer to January 30. 

Fish Croquettes* Refer to December 19. 

Cheese Sauce 

Just before serving add ^ cup Hood's full cream 
cheese, grated, to i cup white sauce, refer to November 6. 
Stir until the cheese is melted, and season with salt and 
paprika. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 

Cabbage and Nut Salad 

Prepare ^ cabbage as for cabbage salad, refer to 
November 7. When ready to serve, add yi cup walnut 
meats broken in pieces, and moisten with ^ recipe 
whipped cream or other dressing. 

Whipped Cream Dressing* Prepared February 4. 
February 6 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 



i84 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee. Refer to Novembr i. 

Casserole of Lamb Chops 

Pan broil 3 minutes i ^ pounds chops cut from the 
forequarter. Put in casserole or heavy baking dish. 
Season with salt, dredge with flour, cover with cold 
water. Put a cover on the dish, and cook about i ^ 
hours in a moderate oven. 

Rice with Cheese 

Refer to December 4. 

Boiled Cabbage 

Cut ^ cabbage in 2 pieces, soak about i hour in cold 
water. Cut out the core, and boil in an uncovered sauce- 
pan in boiling salted water about i ^ hours, or until soft. 
Drain, put in serving dish, season with salt, and add 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Boston Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Boston Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Put 4 cups pastry flour in a shallow bowl. Sift in i ^ 
teaspoons each soda and cream tartar, ^ teaspoon cin- 
namon, and I teaspoon salt ; add i cup sugar ; add i egg, 
unbeaten, i cup Hood's buttermilk, better thick. Mix 
well, and proceed as for doughnuts. Refer to November 

15. 

Apple Sauce 

Refer to December 12. 



HOOD'S MILK 185 



February 7 

Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 
Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i. 
Buttermilk Doughnuts* Prepared February 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Roast Chicken* Refer to November 8. 

Oyster Stuffing 

Mix I cup soft bread crumbs, ^ cup Hood's butter 
melted in }^ cup hot water, ^ teaspoon salt, % tea- 
spoon poultry seasoning, and }i pint oysters, drained, 
and the tough muscle removed. 

Rice and Cheese Balls 

Shape the left over rice into balls, allowing i round- 
ing tablespoon for each ball. Press firmly, and put in 
pan with roast chicken the last 15 minutes of cooking 
the chicken. Baste every 5 minutes with the fat in the 
pan. Serve in place of potato. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Orange Milk Sherbet 

Use I cup sugar and 4 oranges in place of lemons 
in milk sherbet; refer to November 8. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Cocoa* Refer to December 1 3 . 

February 8 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November i. 



i86 DAILY LIVING 

Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Coffee^ Refer to November i. 

Creamed Chicked on Toast 

Prepare once and half the recipe for white sauce, 
refer to November 6 ; add the left over chicken cut in 
small pieces. Reheat, season with salt, paprika, and 
celery salt, and serve on toasted bread ; refer to Novem- 
ber I. 

Buttermilk Doughnuts* Prepared February 6. 

Hot Corned Beef 

Order 5 pounds, cut from the thick end of the brisket, 
and lightly corned. Wipe, put in kettle, cover with 
cold water, bring to the boiling point, boil 5 minutes, 
and simmer below the boiling point 4 or 5 hours, or 
until the meat is tender. Cook the vegetables with the 
meat. 

Boiled Potatoes. Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Turnips* Refer to November 6. 

Boiled Parsnips. Refer to January 4. 

Orange Jelly with Nuts 

Before moulding add )^ cup of walnut meats to 
orange jelly, refer to December 7. 

February 9 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes* Refer to December 24. 

Corn Cake* Refer to December i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 187 



Turnip Cream Soup* Refer to November 1 2. 

Entire Wheat and Nut Biscuit 

Add I cup walnut meats with the flour, and proceed 
as for entire wheat bread, refer to January 9. 

Orange Marmalade* Refer to January 22. 

Corned Beef Croquettes 

Season meat with mustard, moisten with vinegar, and 
proceed as for lamb croquettes. Refer to January 12. 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 
Parsnip Cakes* Refer to January 25. 
Entire Wheat Nut Bread* Refer to biscuit. 

Orange Tarts 

Prepare tarts, refer to December 26, and when ready 
to serve fill with the following cream : Mix ^ cup 
sugar, i^ cup flour, grated rind ^ orange, juice of i 
orange, i egg slightly beaten. Cook in the double 
boiler 10 minutes, and cool. 

February lO 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 

Scambled Eggs with Tomato 
Refer to November 3. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Emergency Soup* Refer to November 5 . 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

Scald 2 cups Hood's milk ; add }( cup Irish moss 
which has been soaked 10 minutes in cold water to cover 



i88 DAILY LIVING 

and then drained. Cook 25 minutes, strain, add i 
teaspoon vanilla and few grains salt. Turn into moulds 
and cool. Remove from the moulds, and serve with 
sugar and Hood's light cream. 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Cook I can corn 15 minutes in 2 cups water. Strain 
and press through a sieve. Scald i pint Hood's milk 
with I slice onion, then remove the onion. Melt 3 table- 
spoons Hood's butter, add 3 tablespoons flour, and 
gradually the corn mixture ; then add the milk gradually, 
stir until thickened, but avoid boiling. Season with salt 
and pepper, and strain again. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Chop together the remaining corned beef and an equal 
amount of cold boiled potatoes. Add i small onion cut 
fine, moisten with Hood's milk, and season with salt. 
Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter in a frying pan, turn 
in the hash, spread evenly and cook very slowly about 
34 of an hour, browning underneath. Fold and turn 
onto a hot platter. 

Pickled Beets* Refer to January 23. 

Jellied Prunes* Refer to December 5 . 

February 11 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Indian Griddle Cakes* Refer to January 23. 

Lemon Syrup* Refer to January i. 

Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Macaroni with Cheese. Refer to December 9. 



HOOD'S MILK 189 



Squash Biscuit 

Add y^ cup cooked squash, 3 tablespoons each sugar 
and Hood's butter, and >^ teaspoon salt to ^ cup 
scalded milk. When lukewarm add i yeast cake dis- 
solved in }i cup lukewarm water and 2^/^ cups flour. 
Cover, let rise until double in bulk, shape as biscuits, let 
rise, and bake. Will make 2 dozen. 

Stewed Prunes 

Refer to December 4. 

Fried Halibut 

Cut I pound of halibut into fillets, and lay on a plate. 
Mix the juice of Yz lemon, 2 tablespoons oil, ^ teaspoon 
salt and pour over the fish ; let stand an hour, then 
drain, roll in corn meal, and fry in deep fat. Serve with 

Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Refer to December 8. 

Potato Croquettes 

Refer to December 7. 

Qanberry Pie 

Mix I ){ cups of sugar with i tablespoon cornstarch, 
and add to i pint of cranberries which have been picked 
over, washed, and chopped ; add Yi cup hot water, and 
cook until thickened ; then fill into a plate lined with 
pastry, refer to November 9. Cover with a lattice of 
pastry strips, and bake about Yz hour in a moderate 
oven. 

February 12 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 



igo 



DAILY LIVING 



Toasted Squash Biscuit 

Split the left-over squash biscuit, butter, and brown 
on the cut side in a hot oven. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Potato Soup* Refer to January i6. 
Cheese Croutons* Refer to February 3. 
Peaches Canned* Refer to November 1 8. 

Whipped Cream 

Refer to November 4 using ^ cup Hood's medium 
cream. 

Smelts Baked in Cream 

Bone I yz pounds smelts, dip in Hood's light cream, 
then in flour ; season with salt. Place in buttered pan 
and bake about 10 minutes in a hot oven. Serve on a 
bed of 

Shredded Potatoes 

Pare and slice potatoes in y% inch slices, then cut in 
y% inch strips. Soak about i hour in water, drain, dry 
between towels and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown 
paper, and season with salt. 

February 13 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Scalloped Oysters* Refer to December 11. 



HOOD'S MILK igi 



Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Orange Trifle 

Refer to fruit trifle, December 9. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 
Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 
Baked Custards* Refer to November 7. 

February I4 

Fish Balls* Refer to November 8. 

Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i . 

Coffee^ Refer to November i . 

Grapefruit* Refer to January 3. 

Stuffed Leg of Lamb 

Order a 5 pound short leg of lamb, with the bone 
removed. Stuff, and fasten and proceed as for roast 
lamb, refer to November 22. 

Cracker Stuffing 

Mix I cup rolled cracker crumbs, ]4, cup Hood's but- 
ter, melted, ^ teaspoon salt, i teaspoon poultry season- 
ing, and y^ cup boiling water. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

Add Yz cup currant jelly which has been beaten with 
a silver fork until soft to i ^ cups gravy, refer to 
November 8. 

Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Boiled Squash* Refer to November 12. 



192 DAILY LIVING 

Vanilla Ice Cream* Refer to November i . 
Welsh Rarebit* Refer to November 8. 

February 15 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. Refer to November 5 . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 

White Nut Cake 

Cream }{ cup Hood's butter, add ^ cup sugar and 
the whites of two of Hood's eggs beaten stiff ; mix 
and sift i cup flour with i % teaspoons baking powder, 
and add alternately with ^ cup Hood's milk to the 
first mixture ; add >^ cup nut meats, cut in small pieces, 
and ^ teaspoon vanilla. Bake in i dozen small tins 
15 to 20 minutes. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 

Sliced Cold Lamb* Prepared February 14. 

Peas Creamed 

Drain and rinse i can peas. Reheat % can peas in 
I cup white sauce, refer to November 6. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I 

Reheated Gravy; Prepared February 14. 

Chocolate Charlotte 

Melt I square Baker's chocolate ; add ^ cup pow- 
dered sugar and gradually >^ cup Hood's light cream, 



HOOD'S MILK 193 



remaining after the cream is whipped. Cook until 
smooth ; then add y^ tablespoon granulated gelatin soft- 
ened in 2 tablespoons cold water ; then add ^ cup more 
sugar and y^, tablespoon vanilla. Strain and cool; 
when the mixture begins to thicken add the whip from 
2>^ cups Hood's light cream. Mould and chill. 

February 16 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Fried Potato Cakes. Refer to November 2. 

Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Baked Bean Cream Soup* Refer to December 7. 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Boiled Dressing. Refer to November 2. 

Asparagus Salad 

Drain and rinse with cold water i can of "Oneida 
Community" asparagus. Season Yt, of the asparagus 
with salt. Mound on lettuce leaves, and cover with y^, 
recipe boiled dressing. 

Lamb and Pea Stew 

Cut the remaining roast lamb into small pieces, dredge 
with flour, season with salt, add any remaining gravy, 
and cover with cold water. Simmer about 2 hours ; add 
y^, can of peas, drained and rinsed. Thicken with flour 
diluted with cold water to pour, and cook 10 minutes 
longer. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Nut Cakes. Prepared February 15. 



194 DAILY LIVING 

February 17 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 
Graham Muffins^ Refer to November 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Asparagus on Toast 

Reheat ^ can *' Oneida Community" asparagus, which 
has been drained and rinsed, in boiUng water to cover. 
Drain, season with salt, arrange on sUces of toasted 
bread, and pour over 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, 
melted. 

Celery and Nut Salad 

Wash, and cut into small pieces the tender part of ^ 
bunch of celery. Shred }^ head of lettuce and arrange 
on salad dish. Then lay on the lettuce the prepared 
celery, seasoned with salt. Cover with ^ the recipe 
boiled dressing, and garnish with y^ cup walnut meats- 
broken in pieces. 

Roast Pork 

Order a sparerib of pork weighing about 4 pounds, 
wipe, sprinkle with salt, dredge with flour, and roast 
between 3 and 4 hours, basting with the fat in the pan. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8, 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 



HOOD'S MILK 195 



February 18 

Oat Cereal, Refer to November 4. 
Hashed Brown Potatoes* Refer to December 24. 
Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Sweet Potato Soup 

Use sweet potatoes in place of white potatoes, refer 
to January 16. 

Cheese Balls with Dressed Lettuce 

Shape I of Hood's cottage cheeses into small balls, 
arrange on shredded lettuce, and pour over a French 
dressing, refer to November 7. 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Fricassee of Pork 

Cut the remaining pork from the bones, and into small 
pieces. Brown 3 tablespoons pork fat, add 4 tablespoons 
flour and brown, and add gradually 2 cups hot water. 
Stir until thickened, then add the pieces of pork ; sea- 
son with salt, and cook slowly ^2 hour. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Mashed Turnips* Refer to November 6. 

Tapioca Cream. Refer to December 19. 

February 19 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 



igG DAILY LIVING 

Corn Cake* Refer to December i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Creole Oysters 

Pick over i pint oysters, cook until plump, drain, and 
reserve the liquor. Cook 3 tablespoons Hood's butter 
with 3 cloves, a bit of bay leaf, and a slice of onion, 2 
minutes. Remove the seasonings, add 3 tablespoons 
flour and gradually ^ cup oyster liquor, and i cup 
canned tomatoes. Reheat the oysters in the sauce, add 
salt, pepper and serve with toasted bread. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes* Refer to January i . 

Baked Stuffed Halibut 

Remove the skin and bone from i}( pounds halibut, 
to make 2 fillets. Lay i fillet in pan on strips of salt 
pork ; cover with a dressing prepared by melting 3 table- 
spoons Hood's butter and adding % cup rolled cracker 
crumbs, salt, pepper and a few drops onion juice. Then 
lay on the dressing the other fillet of halibut. Season 
with salt and bake about 40 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mashed Potatoes. Refer to November I. 

Delmonico Celery 

Prepare as Delmonico potatoes, refer to January 7, 
using celery in place of potatoes. 

Apple Dumplings* Refer to November 4. 

Molasses Sauce* Refer to December 30. 

February 20 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 



HOOD'S MILK 197 



Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit 

Refer to November 12. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i . 

Baked Cod with Tomato Sauce 

Prepare tomato sauce, refer to December 12. Lay in 
a baking pan, on 2 strips of wet cheese cloth, 2 sUces of 
cod steak, weighing i % pounds. Pour over the fish j^ 
the tomato sauce, season with salt and bake about >^ hour 
in a hot oven. Remove to platter and serve with re- 
maining sauce poured around the fish. 

Fried Potato Cakes. Refer to November 2. 
Hot Fried Biscuits Refer to January 12. 
Baked Kidney Beans^ Refer to December 26. 

Steamed Brown Bread with Raisins 

Refer to January 23. 

Butter Cake 

In preparing use the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs and 
I whole ^gg. Refer to November 1 1 . 

Maple Frosting 

Boil y\ cup maple syrup to the thread degree and use 
with the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs. Proceed as for 
boiled frosting, refer to January 8. 

February 21 

Reheated Beans^ Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 



igS DAILY LIVING 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Grapefruits Refer to January 3. 

Casserole of Chicken 

Cut a 2 ^ pound broiler or young chicken into pieces 
for serving, and fry in Hood's butter with i small onion. 
Put in casserole with i Y^ cups water. Cover and cook 
% of an hour, or until nearly tender, then add i }^ dozen 
potato balls, parboiled 5 minutes, and let cook 1 minutes 
more. 

Potato Balls 

Refer to January 17. Boil the remaining potatoes 
after cutting in pieces of uniform size. 

Julienne Vegetables 

Cut I carrot and i small turnip into J^ inch slices, 
then in y% inch strips. Cook in casserole with the 
chicken, after parboiling 5 minutes in boiling salted water. 

Hot Indian Pudding 

Refer to November 5 and serve with ;^ the recipe 
vanilla ice cream, refer to November i. 

Welsh Rarebit* Refer to November 8. 

Vanilla Ice Cream with Chocolate Sauce 
Refer to November i . 

February 22 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Oven Broiled Bacon. Refer to December 3. 
Hashed Brown Potatoes* Refer to December 24. 



HOOD'S MILK 199 



Vegetable Salad 

Use left over vegetables in preparing the salad. Add 
I cup cold boiled potatoes to left over baked kidney 
beans, season with salt and onion juice. Moisten with 
i^ recipe dressing and mound on a salad dish. 

Cream Boiled Dressing 

Mix Yri tablespoon each salt, sugar, i tablespoon flour, 
i^ teaspoon mustard, and a few grains paprika, add 
the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs unbeaten and i cup 
Hood's light cream. Cook until slightly thickened, then 
add 2 tablespoons vinegar gradually and continue thick- 
ening. Add the white of i of Hood's eggs beaten stiff 
and cook i minute. 

Brown and White Bread Sandwiches 

Prepare sandwiches as bread and butter sandwiches, 
refer to December 25, using i slice each of brown and 
white bread. 

Butter Cake* Prepared February 20. 

Scotch Broth* Refer to Novmber 1 1. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

Refer to February 10. 

February 23 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 



200 DAILY LIVING 

Fruit Biscuit 

Roll out yl of the dough prepared for bread. Spread 
with Hood's butter melted and sprinkle with cut raisins. 
Roll up like a jelly roll. Cut in 12 pieces. Place cut 
side up on an inverted buttered pan. Let rise again 
and bake about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Butter Cake« Prepared February 20. 

Cocoa^ Refer to December 13. 

Fricassee of Lamb* Refer to November 12. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Steamed Graham Pudding 

Use graham flour in place of white flour and proceed 
as for steamed fruit pudding, refer to November 20. 

Foamy Sauce 

Beat the white of i of Hood's eggs stiff, add % cup 
powdered sugar and continue beating, then add ^ cup 
Hood's milk, scalded, and % teaspoon vanilla. 

February 24 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Lamb Barley Broth 

Soak ^ cup barley over night in i quart cold water. 
Cook in the same water until soft, adding the last half 
hour of cooking the stock left from the fricassee of 
lamb. Season with salt. 



HOOD'S MILK 20I 



Cheese Croutons 

Refer to February 3. 

Apple Fritters 

Use apples in place of bananas, refer to banana fritters, 
November 6. 

Currant Jelly Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Baked Fillets of Flounder 

Order 2 pounds flounder, skinned and boned. Wipe 
and let stand in 2 tablespoons each oil and vinegar i 
hour. Drain, season with salt and spread on Yt. each 
fillet mashed potato, refer to November i. Fold the 
other half over it. Put in a baking dish, add Y^, cup 
Hood's milk and bake about 1 5 minutes in a hot oven. 
Serve with mashed potatoes and 

Cream Dressing* Prepared February 22. 
Mince Pie. Refer to November 26. 

February 25 

Indian Meal Mush 

Add I Y^ cups cold water to i cup granulated corn 
meal and i teaspoon salt. Stir into 2 cups Hood's milk, 
scalded, and cook 3 hours in the double boiler, preparing 
the day before serving and then reheating for breakfast. 
Pack the left over cereal into a buttered mould, like a 
pound baking powder box, cover and keep in a cool place. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 



202 DAILY LIVING 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Use I can peas in place of corn, refer to cream of 
corn soup, February lo. 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Peaches and Cream* Refer to November 18. 

Ginger Drop Cakes 

Melt y^ cup Hood's butter in Yz cup boiling water, 
add I cup molasses, mix and sift 2 % cups flour with i % 
teaspoons each soda and ginger and ^ teaspoon salt. 
Add to the first mixture, beat well, and add enough 
more flour, if necessary, to make a batter stiff enough to 
drop slowly from the spoon. Drop from a tablespoon 
onto a buttered inverted baking pan and bake in a slow 
oven. 

Broiled Chicken* Refer to January 14. 

Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

February 26 

Fried Mush 

Remove the left over mush from the mould. Cut in 
^ inch slices, roll in flour and brown on both sides in a 
smoking hot frying pan, using Hood's butter. 

Apple Sauce* Refer to December 12. 
Rice Muffins* Refer to February 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Salt Fish Hash 

Omit the ^gg from fish balls, refer to November 8. 
Fry until brown 3 slices salt pork, and proceed as for 
cooking corned beef hash, refer to February i o. 



HOOD'S MILK 203 



Buttermilk Rolls 

Add I teaspoon soda dissolved in i tablespoon hot 
water to i cup Hood's buttermilk. Add 2^ cups flour 
with y^ teaspoon salt. Beat until light, then bake about 
25 minutes in iron gem pans. Makes 2 dozen. 

Ginger Drop Cakes. Prepared February 25. 

Fried Cod Steak 

Wipe i^ pounds cod steak cut in Y^ inch slices. 
Season with salt, roll in corn meal and fry slowly in pork 
fat until the fish is dry and well browned on both sides. 

Butter Gravy* Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Queen Pudding* Refer to November 6. 

February 27 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Hashed Fish* Refer to November 14. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Corn Chowder* Refer to December 1 1 . 

Reheated Buttermilk Rolls 

Refer to reheated baking powder biscuit, November 1 2. 

Ginger Drop Cakes* Prepared February 25. 

Tea* Refer to November i. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 



204 DAILY LIVING 

Caramel Custards 

Caramelize 5^ cup sugar, refer to caramel ice cream, 
December 6, add to scalded milk in baked custards and 
prepare as custards, refer to November 7. 

February 28 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Roast Beef 

Order 4 pounds beef cut from the face of the rump 
and proceed as for roast lamb, refer to November 22. 

Roast Potatoes. Refer to November 22. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

Beat 2 of Hood's eggs until thick, add }{ teaspoon 
salt, I cup flour, i cup Hood's milk, and beat v^ith the 
egg beater until perfectly smooth. One half hour before 
the meat has finished cooking, put the roast beef fat 
in a cake tin to cover the bottom of the tin. Turn in 
the mixture ; it requires a pan to have the pudding j4 
inch in thickness. Bake about 25 minutes in a hot oven, 
basting with the roast beef fat. Cut into squares for 
serving. 

Mashed Turnips* Refer to November 6. 
Milk Sherbet. Refer to November 8. 

Eggs with Tomato Sauce (chafing dish) 

Melt I tablespoon Hood's butter, add i cup canned 
tomatoes, using the thick part, and ^ onion cut fine. 
Cook vmtil the onion is soft and the tomato is thick. 
Season, with salt, turn into bowl and cover. Prepare 



HOOD'S MILK 205 



scrambled eggs, refer to November 4, and serve the 2 
dishes together. 

Toasted Brown Breads Refer to November 2. 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" Butter is produced from cream by churning. This causes all 
the fat globules in the cream to run together into a solid mass, 
while the fluid part, containing almost all the sugar and most of 
the casein, remains in the form of buttermilk. The flavor and 
aroma of butter are due to the growth of organisms in the cream 
during ripening. . . . The most striking chemical character- 
istic of butter fat is its richness in those fatty acids (butyric, 
caproic, capric and caprylic) which are soluble in water. Of these 
it contains about 7 per cent. Butyric acid, indeed, may be said 
to be the hall-mark of butter, from which it derives its name. Of 
the insoluble fatty acids present olein is the most abundant. 
Butter fat contains 40 per cent olein. This means that it has a 
low melting-point (31-31° C), and that in its turn implies, for 
reasons we have already discussed, that it is easily digested and 
absorbed. As a matter of fact, butter is the most easily digested 
of fatty acids. The fat of the human body has also a large 
proportion of olein, and melts at an even lower temperature than 
butter (25° C). The fact that butter fat approximates so closely 
to it in its proportion of olein may perhaps help to explain the 
great value of butter as a food. 

" The ease with which butter is digested renders it of great 
value as a source of fat in the diet of sickness. In phthisis, 
diabetes and many forms of dyspepsia patients can take one- 
fourth pound of it a day without difficulty, and with great advan- 
tage to their nutrition. Cooked butter, on the other hand, is much 
more apt to disagree, probably owing to the liberation of fatty 
acids in it by the heat employed in cooking. The absorption of 
butter in the intestine is very complete, even when one-fourth 
pound of it is taken per day, less than .5 per cent is wasted. This 
is a more favorable result than would be obtained with any other 
form of fat, and should teach us that it may be well to give butter 
a fair trial before having recourse to cod liver oil or other 
medicinal fatty preparations. 

"Robert Hutchinson, M.D., Edin., F.R.C.P., 

" Assistant Physician to the London Hospital and to the Hospital for Sick 
Children^ Great Ortnand Street." 



206 



DAILY LIVING 



Cost of Living for Febrtiary 

February 1=8 February 8slS 



2}4 lbs. butter $0.98 

1 3 quarts milk at 9 cts i . 1 7 

7 jars light cream at 7 cts.. . .49 

I doz. eggs 45 

I jar medium cream 10 

I cottage cheese 05 

^ lb. cheese 11 

Cereal 08 

Coffee at 35 cts. lb 28 

y2 lb. figs 08 

2^ of the pot roast 40 

Tomatoes 03 

Chocolate 03 

I ^2 pts. oysters 30 

Marmalade 08 

}4 pk. spinach 15 

Rice 08 

Lettuce 08 

Bananas, i doz , 20 

Oil 05 

Molasses and vinegar 04 

Graham and Indian meal . . . .04 

3 yeast cakes 06 

^ lb. lower round oS 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Vegetables 05 

Spices and salt 02 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

Pickles 04 

Codfish 02 

Split peas 03 

Crackers, I lb 10 

Lard 05 

Nut meats 10 

Cabbage, 3 lbs 09 

^ lb. bacon 04 

i^ lbs. forequarter chops.. .18 

Apples 05 

Buttermilk, i pt. 04 

^ of 4 lb. chicken, 72 cts... . .36 

3 oranges 07 

Cocoa 02 

Potatoes 10 



Total ^7.43 



12 qts. milk at 9 cts $1.08 

9 half pint jars light cream. . .63 

1 doz. eggs 45 

2)4 lbs. butter at 39 cts 98 

Jar medium cream 10 

^2 lb. cheese 11 

Cottage cheese 05 

Coffee 28 

Cereal 08 

)4 chicken 36 

4 lbs. thick end brisket at 

16 cts. 64 

Corn and graham meal 04 

Vegetables 10 

Nut meats 10 

8 oranges 18 

3 yeast cakes 06 

Orange marmalade 04 

Lard 05 

Tomatoes 03 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Irish moss 01 

Can of corn 15 

2 grapefruit 15 

Ice and salt 07 

I lb. prunes 12 

Gelatin and 1 lemon 06 

Macaroni 03 

Squash, 3 lbs 09 

I lb. halibut 25 

Oil 07 

T pt. cranberries 06 

Codfish 05 

Peaches, I pt 10 

Currant jelly 03 

Apples 05 

Potatoes .10 

Spices and salt 02 

I ^ lbs. smelts 23 

X lb. bacon 04 

I pt. oysters 20 

^ of a 5 lb. leg lamb, 90 cts. .30 

Beans c8 

Chili sauce 04 

Total P.04 



HOOD'S MILK 



207 



February 15-22 

2>^ lbs. butter $0.98 

12 qts. milk 1.08 

II half pt, jars light cream. . .77 

1 doz. eggs 45 

2 cottage cheeses 10 

Yz lb. cheese 11 

Coffee at 35 cts. a lb 28 

Apples 05 

Potatoes 10 

Cereal 06 

% of roast lamb 60 

Can peas 15 

Chocolate 04 

Gelatin 02 

Nut meats 10 

Crackers 05 

Can asparagus, " Oneida 

Community " 35 

Lettuce 08 

Corn and graham meal 03 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Celery 12 

4 lbs. roast pork 60 

Vegetables 05 

Rice 01 

X lb. bacon 04 

Spices and salt ■. .02 

Tapioca .01 

Sugar 18 

Flour 20 

Baking powder 02 

Pint oysters 20 

Tomatoes 01 

Ice and salt 04 

Maple syrup 08 

I % lbs. halibut 25 

Codfish 02 

lYi lbs. cod steak .21 

1 qt. beans 10 

Oil.- : 05 

Raisins 01 

2 grapefruit 15 

zYz lb. broiler 58 

Total for week ^8.39 



February 22=28 

2% lbs. butter $0.98 

8 jars light cream 56 

12 quarts milk 1.08 

\Y doz. eggs at 45 cts 68 

Y lb. full cream cheese 11 

Cottage cheese 05 

Coffee at 35 cts. a lb 28 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Spices and salt 02 

Cereal 05 

Baking powder 02 

Potatoes 10 

Bacon 04 

4 lbs. forequarter lamb 40 

Sea moss 01 

Vanilla 04 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Apples 10 

Raisins 02 

Cocoa 02 

Rye and Indian meal 05 

Barley 01 

Currant jelly 05 

2 lbs. flounder 30 

Mince meat 05 

Lard 05 

2 lb. broiler 46 

Crackers 10 

Can peas 15 

Rice 03 

Maple syrup 05 

Salt fish 03 

Pt. buttermilk 04 

Molasses and vinegar 04 

I Y lbs. cod steak 21 

Can corn 12 

Tea 01 

Beans and salt pork 12 

Chili sauce and pickles 08 

4 oranges 09 

Y roast beef, 60 cts 20 

3 lemons 07 

Ice and salt 05 

Tomato 02 

Total for week ^7-36 

Total for month 53I--2 



208 



DAILY LIVING 



L'O^verins tKe Cost 



February 1=8 

Omit 7 jars light cream ^0.49 

Medium cream 10 

Chocolate 03 

Nut meats 10 

Pickles 04 

Omit bananas and oranges, 

27 cts., use apples, 3 cts. .24 
Serve scalloped potato, 6 cts., 
in place of broiled 
oysters, 23 cts 17 

$1-17 



February 8 "15 

7 jars light cream ^0.49 

Coffee 28 

Omit medium cream 10 

Nut meats 10 

Currant jelly 03 

Chili sauce 04 

Use apples, 10 cts., in place 
of marmalade, grape- 
fruit, oranges and prunes, 

49 cts 39 

Potato soup, 10 cts., for corn 

soup, 21 cts II 

Use 4 lbs. haddock, 28 cts., 
in place of halibut and 

smelts, 48 cts 20 

Use macaroni and cheese, 5 
cts., in place of scalloped 
oysters, 33 cts 28 

$2.02 



S0.49 
.28 



February 15=22 

7 half pint jars light cream, 

Coffee 

Nut meats 10 

Cottage cheese 05 

Maple syrup 08 

2 grapefruit, 15 cts., use 

apples, 2 cts 13 

%. lb. bacon 04 

Celery 12 

Omit casserole of chicken, 58 
cts., use English beef 
soup, ID cts 48 



.1.77 



February 22=28 

7 jars light cream ^0.49 

Raisins 02 

Maple syrup 05 

Use potato soup in place of 

pea soup 14 

Chili sauce and pickles 08 

Use xYz lbs. f orequarter lamb 
chops, 18 cts., in place 
of broiler, 46 cts 28 

;^i.o6 

Total for month ^6.02 



HOOD'S MILK 209 



Household Hints 

Milk is scalded when a scum has formed on top 
and beads around the edge of the milk. 

Milk should always be scalded over hot water, and 
not put in a saucepan to be placed directly over the fire, 
to reach the boiling point. 

Milk should not be scalded in a dish where strong 
odored vegetables, like onions, have been cooked. 

Milk should always be kept in the bottle until ready 
to use and the amount necessary turned out. The cap 
should always be kept in the bottle. 

White Sauce may be prepared for use for two days 
and the amount necessary measured. 

The Liquid measure is always the sauce measure. 

To Butter Cake Tins always melt the butter, 
allow the salt to settle and use a butter brush. 

To Soften Butter for creaming in the cake, rinse the 
cake bowl with boiling water, allow the butter to stand 
for 2 minutes, and then cream, using a wooden spoon. 

Butter should be creamed, and not melted, unless 
specified, for cake making, as melted butter changes the 
consistency of the cake. 

Melted Butter should be melted and then measured, 
or measure scant the amount required and then melt. 

Butter, Milk and Cream should be kept apart from 
other food in the ice box if possible, and should always 
be kept in a low temperature except when in actual use. 



210 DAILY LIVING 



Children's Party Suggestions 

Birthday Cake 

Beat the yolks of 6 of Hood's eggs until thick, add i cup 
sugar gradually and continue beating ; then add i table- 
spoon lemon juice and the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. When the whites are partially stirred in sift in i 
cup flour and cut and fold in. Bake i hour in an angel 
cake pan. When cold frost with 

Ornamental Frosting 

Put the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs and 2 tablespoons 
confectioner's sugar in a bowl. Beat 2 minutes with a 
wooden spoon. Add confectioner's sugar, 2 tablespoons 
at a time, beating between each addition, until i cup 
of sugar has been used. Then add enough sugar to 
make of a consistency to spread. Cover with a thin 
frosting and decorate with candles. Add enough sugar 
to remaining frosting to make it stiff enough to hold in 
shape, and decorate the cake, using the pastry bag and 
tube. 

Nut Bread Sandwiches 

Refer to February 9 for entire wheat and nut bread. 
Slice thin, spread with butter and cut in fancy shapes. 
Serve with glasses of Hood's milk. 

Rolled Lettuce Sandwiches 

Butter fresh bread, cut thin, lay on a lettuce leaf, 
sprinkle with salt, roll and fasten with narrow ribbon. 

Orange Sherbet in Orange Shells 

Boil I quart water and i pint sugar together 20 
minutes, add the juice from 6 oranges and 2 lemons. 
Cool, freeze, using 2 parts ice and i part salt. For pre- 
paring the shells, cut the oranges in halves, remove the 



HOOD'S MILK 211 



pulp with a spoon, then rub through a strainer. The 
cut edge of the shell may be pointed, using the scissors. 

Cold Chocolate 

Melt 2 squares Baker's chocolate, add ^ cup sugar 
and I cup boiling water. Bring to the boil, then add to 
3 cups Hood's milk, scalded. Cool, and just before 
serving add a piece of ice and beat with the egg beater. 
Serve with Hood's medium cream whipped. 



212 DAILY LIVING 

Memoranda 



Month of March 



I - 



For the Invalid 



In using cold water, the water should be freshly drawn, . 
and for hot drinks the water should be freshly boiled. 
All hot drinks should be served hot, and the cold drinks 
cold. Never serve more than the patient is allowed at 
one time. Hot water is more stimulating than cold water, 
and quenches the thirst better. During an epidemic the 
water may be boiled, then covered, and cooled before 
serving. This renders it practically germ free. 

All hot milk should be heated over hot water, as then 
the temperature cannot be raised beyond 196 degrees. 
Milk heated to 2 1 2 degrees, or the boiling point, changes 
in value, and has been made astringent. Milk is a perfect 
food for infants and invalids. A complete milk diet is 
from I to 3 quarts daily. The taste of the milk should 
be altered occasionally for its perfect digestion. The 
change from the milk to the solid diet should be gradual. 
The fruit drinks are valuable for their acids, and are 
cooling and soothing in fevers. 

The egg nogs are used when a concentrated diet is 
required, and, like milk, should be sipped slowly, rather 
than taken rapidly. 

For the invalid, all eggs should be perfectly fresh, on 
account of the extra nourishment contained. 

Beef tea prepared by simmering the meat in the water 
is used as a stimulant, as the stimulating rather than the 
nourishing properties of the meat are drawn out into the 
water. Beef juice extracted from the broiled meat con- 
tains the nourishing properties of the meat. 

The several gruels are used with different results. 

215 



2i6 DAILY LIVING 

Oatmeal gruel is slightly laxative, and may be used in 
nearly all cases. 

The wheat gruels are astringent, and Indian gruel, on 
account of the fat contained, is not given in fevers. 

All food which contains starch should have long, slow 
cooking to swell and burst the starch grain, which ren- 
ders it more digestible. 

Bread is better served toasted for the invalid, as during 
the process the starch changes into the first stage of 
digestion, the same as the action of the saliva on the 
food, which is often lacking with the invalid. 

Starchy food should be used with caution where a con- 
centrated diet is required, as it adds bulk to the food. 

It has been said that a good sick room cook will save 
the digestion half its work. 

Nourishing food is a valuable aid to the physician in 
the recovery of the invalid, and should be studied in 
every home. 




UJ 

Z 
UJ 

O 

CO 



< 

u. 

Q 

o 

O 

I 



O 

CO 

lij 

I 
I- 

CD 

Z 



HOOD'S MILK 217 



March I 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Reheated Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

French Fruit Salad Bread and Butter 

Harrison Cake Tea 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Beef Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce 

Prune Souffle 



March 2 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L-uncKeon or Supper 

Clam Bisque Hot Biscuit 

Stewed Prunes Harrison Cake 

Dinner 

Beef Croquettes French Fried Potatoes 

Banana Pudding Boiled Custard 



March 3 

BreaKfast 

Indian Meal Mush Bread Omelet 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Macaroni with Cheese Harrison Cake 

Sliced Oranges Boiled Custard 

Dinner 

Carni Con Chili Georgian Sweet Potatoes Dressed Lettuce 
Baked Bananas Bread and Butter 



2i8 DAILY LIVING 

March 4 

BreaKfast 

Fried Mush Maple Syrup 

Baked Apples Coffee 

L'UncKeon or Supper 

Black Bean Soup Crisp Crackers 

Canned Peaches Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Baked Haddock Hollandaise Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Frozen Rice Pudding 



March 5 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast 

Apple Sauce Coffee 

L'tincHeon or Supper 

Scalloped Fish and Oysters 
Cottage Cheese and Jelly Crackers 

Dinner 

Nut Loaf Broiled Potatoes 

Chocolate Pudding Medium Cream 



March 6 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Oven Broiled Bacon 

Baked Potatoes Coffee 

LtincKeon or Dinner 

Reheated Nut Loaf Cabbage Scalloped with Cheese 

Hot Biscuit Dried Apple Pie 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans with Tomato Sauce Boston Brown Bread 

Pickles Maple Custards 



HOOD'S MILK 219 



March 7 

BreaKfast 

Creamed Beef Reheated Brown Bread Coffee 

Dinner 

Chicken Southern Style Steamed Rice 

Currant Jelly Custard Ice Cream 

Tea 

Raisin and Nut Sandwiches 
Ice Cream Harrison Cake 



March 8 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Toasted Brown Bread 

Reheated Beans Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Stipper 

Rice Omelet Baking Powder Biscuit 

Coffee Jelly 

Dinner 

Chicken Croquettes White Sauce with Peas 

Toasted Bread 
Steamed Pudding Custard Sauce 



March 9 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Buttermilk Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

L'tincHeon or Stipper 

St. Germain Pea Soup Hot Biscuit Canned Quinces 

Dinner 

Broiled Steak with Onions 
Mashed Potatoes Irish Moss Blanc Mange 



220 DAILY LIVING 

March 10 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Potato Puff 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LtixicKeon or Supper 

Bean Rarebit Toasted Bread 

Buttermilk Doughnuts Dried Apple Sauce 

Dinner 

Fish Chowder Pickles 

Lemon Pie Lemon Filling Meringue 



March U 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Oven Broiled Bacon 

Baked Potatoes Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Split Pea Soup Crisp Crackers Tarts 

Dinner 

Fish Timbals Hollandaise Sauce 

French Fried Potatoes Coffee Mousse 



March 12 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Scalloped Tomatoes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Glasses of Milk 

Dinner 

Corn Chowder German Apple Cake Maple Sauce 



HOOD'S MILK 221 



March 13 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

Dinner or L'tincHeon 

Scalloped Clams Cheese and Jelly Hot Biscuit 

Supper or Dinner 

Baked Beans Steamed Graham Bread 

Hermit Cookies Sliced Oranges 



March 14 

BreaRfast 

Beans Reheated Reheated Graham Bread 

Buttermilk Doughnuts Coffee 

Dinner 

Boiled Leg of Lamb Caper Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Creamed Onions 

Frozen Chocolate Whipped Cream 

Tea 

Frozen Chocolate Whipped Cream Hermit Cookies 



March 15 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LtincHeon or Supper 

Tomato and Rice Soup Bread and Butter 

Hermit Cookies Cottage Cheese 

Dinner 

Cold Boiled Lamb Mint Sauce 

French Fried Potatoes Indian Pudding 



222 DAILY LIVING 

March 16 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Reheated Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Potato Soup Crisp Crackers 

Fruit Biscuit Orange Jelly 

Dinner 

Lamb Souffle Mint Jelly 

Moulded Cheese Salad Bread and Butter 



March \7 



BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Codfish Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Stewed Lima Beans Toasted Bread 

Hermit Cookies Jelly 

Dinner 

Baked Halibut Horseradish Hollandaise 

Duchess Potatoes 
Angel Cake Canned Peaches 



March 18 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Fish Omelet White Sauce 

Baking Powder Biscuit Sliced Oranges 

Dinner 

Baked Broiler Chicken Broiled Potatoes 

Dressed Lettuce Savory French Dressing 

Stewed Prunes Bread and Butter 



HOOD'S MILK 223 



March 19 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

L-tmcKeon or S\ippex* 

Hulled Corn Bread and Butter 

Hermit Cookies Jellied Prunes 

Dinner 

Fish Chowder Pickles 

Hot Gingerbread Full Cream Cheese 



March 20 



BreaKfast 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit Dried Beef with White Sauce 

Baked Potatoes Coffee 

LruncKeon or Dinner 

Fish Croquettes Whole Wheat Bread and Butter 

Ginger Cakes Whipped Cream 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Kidney Beans Steamed Graham Bread 

Custard Pie 



March 2\ 

BreaKfast 

Corn Griddle Cakes Reheated Graham Bread 

. Coffee Oranges 

Dinner 

Boiled Fowl Mashed Potatoes 
Boiled Onions Maple Mousse 

Tea 
Cold Baked Beans Toasted Graham Bread 

Tarts Fruit Cream 



224 DAILY LIVING 

March 22 

BreaRfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Fried Potato Cakes 

Spider Corn Cake Coffee 

LtincHeon or Supper 

Kidney Bean Salad Horseradish Dressing 

Bread and Butter Rice Pudding 

Dinner 

Chicken Bechamel French Fried Potatoes 

Corn Custard Orange Short Cake Whipped Cream 



March 23 



BreaRfast 

Scotch Oatmeal Toasted Bread 

Creamed Codfish Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Supper 

White Cream Soup Hot Biscuit 

Chocolate Raisin Cake Canned Fruit 

Dinner 

Irish Stew Dumplings 

Bread and Fruit Mould 



March 24 

BreaRfast 

Moulded Scotch Oatmeal Coffee 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes Maple Syrup 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Raw Oysters Cocktail Sauce 

Bread and Butter 

Chocolate Raisin Cake Cottage Cheese 

Dinner 
Lamb Fricassee Boiled Potatoes 

Mashed Turnips Sliced Oranges 

Bread and Butter 



HOOD'S MILK 225 



March 25 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Oven Broiled Bacon Coffee 

LtincKeon or Stxpper 

Lamb Cream Soup Crisp Crackers 

Stewed Prunes Chocolate Raisin Cake 

Dinner 

Planked Steak Potato Roses 

Buttered Beets Rice Pudding 



March 26 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Boiled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L'U.ncHeoii or Stipper 

Steamed Rice with Cheese Prune Pie 

Dinner 

Salt Fish with Salt Pork Boiled Potatoes 

Pickled Beets 
Steamed Pudding Hot Custard Sauce 



March 27 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Potatoes Creamed with Salt Fish Coffee 

Dinner or L'U.ncHeon 

Tripe with Tomato Sauce Fried Biscuit 

Stewed Figs Whipped Cream 

Dinner or Stipper 

Baked Beans Boston Brown Bread 

Caramel Custard 



226 DAILY LIVING 

March 28 

BreaRfast 

Fish Balls in Pork Fat Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee Grapefruit 

Dinner 

Roast Chicken Gravy Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Spinach Chocolate Rice Meringue 

Tea 

Creamy Welsh Rarebit Crackers 



March 29 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Reheated Baked Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

I^txncHeon or Supper 

Potato Soup 
Spinach Salad Hard Boiled Eggs Boiled Oil Dressing 

Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Chicken Croquettes Shredded Potatoes 

White Sauce 
Canned Fruit Baking Powder Biscuit 



March 30 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Baked Beans 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LrtJLncHeon or Supper 

Macaroni Baked with Tomato Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Cod Boiled in Milk Fish Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Dressed Lettuce Indian Pudding 



HOOD'S MILK 227 



March 31 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Corn Cake Coffee 

L'UiiicKeoxi or Supper 

Cream Fish Soup Crisp Crackers 

Buttermilk Doughnuts Full Cream Cheese 

Dinner 

Fish and Potato Cutlets Buttermilk Rolls 

Mince Pie 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" In all stages and conditions of life milk is a valuable and 
wholesome, often a necessary, food. It is especially valuable to 
the young, and Dr. Willard Parker was fond of saying: 'If you 
would have your children lambs, give them milk;' if lions, feed 
them upon meat.' Mary E. Green, M.D., 

'■^Member of the American Medical Association^ Member of the Jury of Awards 
on Foods, World's Columbian Exposition:^ 



228 DAILY LIVING 

MarcK 1 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
French Fruit Salad 

Shred % head lettuce and arrange on salad dish, then 
use fruit according to season, using in this salad 4 oranges 
and Yz cup walnut meats broken in pieces and i apple 
cut in strips. Pour over a French dressing, refer to 
November 7. 

Harrison Cake 

Cream ^ cup Hood's butter, add % cup sugar. Then 
add % pound currants and % pound seeded raisins cut 
in small pieces. Add 2 of Hood's eggs well beaten. 
Mix and sift 3 cups flour with i teaspoon each soda and 
cinnamon, and % teaspoon each clove and allspice, and 
add alternately with ^ cup Hood's milk and yz cup 
molasses to the first mixture. Bake in a loaf in a deep 
pan 2 hours in a slow oven. 

Tea* Refer to November i . 

Cold Roast Beef* Prepared February 28. 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce 

Use Y, package spaghetti. Take spaghetti in hand, 
dip the ends in boiling salted water, and as it softens it 
will bend, and may be coiled under water. Cook as 
macaroni with tomato sauce, refer to January 8. 

Prune Souffle* Refer to December 29. 



HOOD'S MILK 229 



MarcK 2 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Clam Bisque 

Pick over and drain i pint of clams. Save liquor and 
add to it 3/s cup water and the clams, which have been 
chopped. Bring slowly to the boiling point and simmer 
5 minutes. Strain and pour upon slowly 2 }^ tablespoons 
each Hood's butter and flour cooked together. Scald i 
pint Hood's milk with i sUce onion and bit of bay leaf. 
Strain into clam liquor and season with ^ teaspoon salt, 
ys teaspoon pepper. Serve with the white of i of 
Hood's eggs beaten stiff and added last. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Stewed Prunes* Refer to December 4. 

Harrison Cake* Prepared March I. 

Beef Croquettes 

Use cold roast beef and prepare as lamb croquettes, 
refer to January 12. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 

Banana Pudding 

Pour boiled custard over 4 bananas sliced thin. May 
be sprinkled with cocoanut if desired. 

Boiled Custard 

Mix ys cup sugar and the yolks of 3 of Hood's eggs, 
add 2 cups Hood's milk, scalded ; return to the double 



230 DAILY LIVING 

boiler and cook until the mixture coats the spoon. 
Strain, cool, add a few grains salt and }^ teaspoon 
vanilla. 

MarcH 3 

Indian Meal Mush 

Refer to February 25. 

Bread Omelet 

Soak y^ cup fine bread crumbs in ^ cup Hood's 
milk 10 minutes. Add to well beaten yolks of 3 of 
Hood's eggs, with % teaspoon salt. Fold in the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff and cook as omelet, refer to 
December 5. 

Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3 . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Macaroni with Cheese* Refer to December 9. 

Harrison Cake* Prepared March i. 

Sliced Oranges* Refer to December 2^. 

Boiled Custard* Prepared March 2. 

Carni Con Chili 

Prepare a 2 pound chicken for serving. Season with 
salt and pepper and fry in Hood's butter. Add % tea- 
spoon salt, ^ onion finely chopped, the chicken, and 
boiling water to cover. Cook until the chicken is tender, 
remove to serving dish, and thicken sauce with 2 table- 
spoons each Hood's butter and flour cooked together. 

Georgian Sweet Potatoes 

Season 4 mashed boiled sweet potatoes with Hood's 
butter, salt and pepper ; moisten with Hood's milk and 



HOOD'S MILK 231 



beat thoroughly. Put in baking dish and pour over a 
syrup made by boihng 2 tablespoons molasses and i -tea- 
spoon Hood's butter together 5 minutes. Bake in the 
oven until browned. 

Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 
Baked Bananas* Refer to January 30. 

MarcK 4 

Fried Mush* Refer to February 26. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Black Bean Soup 

Soak I cup black beans over night. Drain, add 4 cups 
water and cook until soft ; rub through a sieve, fry out 
an inch cube of salt pork cut in small pieces. ^Add >^ 
onion cut finely, cook 5 minutes, add bean mixture. 
Mix I tablespoon flour, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 cloves, i^ 
teaspoon mustard, and add to i tablespoon Hood's butter 
melted. Stir into first mixture, strain and add 3^ lemon 
sliced finely. 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Baked Haddock. Refer to November 13. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

HoIIandaise Sauce 

Add to y^, cup Hood's butter washed the yolks of 2 of 
Hood's eggs, a few grains paprika, i tablespoon lemon 
juice and y^ cup hot water. Cook over hot water until 
it thickens, stirring constantly. 



232 DAILY LIVING 

Frozen Rice Pudding 

Cook ^ cup rice 5 minutes in a quantity of water, 
then drain and cook in the double boiler with 2 cups 
Hood's milk and % teaspoon salt until soft. Then add 
% cup powdered sugar and let stand until cold, add i 
tablespoon vanilla, and fold in % cup of Hood's medium 
cream beaten until solid, add the whites of 2 of Hood's 
eggs beaten stiff. Put in a mould and let stand packed 
in equal measures ice and salt about 2 hours. 

MarcH 5 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Apple Sauce* Refer to December 12. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Scalloped Fish and Oysters 

Parboil )^ pint oysters and proceed as for scalloped 
fish, refer to November 1 1, using the left over fish with 
the oysters. 

Cheese and Jelly 

Refer to November 5. 

Nut Loaf 

Mix I quart soft bread crumbs, % cup Hood's butter 
melted in % cup Hood's milk, 2 of Hood's eggs well 
beaten, or 2 Qgg yolks in place of i Qgg, % teaspoon 
salt, few grains paprika and i cup walnut meats broken 
in pieces, and 3/2 teaspoon poultry seasoning if desired. 
Bake in a buttered bread tin about Yz hour in a hot oven. 

Broiled Potatoes^ Refer to December 19. 



HOOD'S MILK 233 

Chocolate Pudding 

Scald I pint Hood's milk. Melt 1% squares Baker's 
chocolate, add }i cup sugar and yi cup boiling water, 
and let cook until smooth and glossy. Then add to the 
scalded milk. Dilute }^ cup cornstarch with Hood's 
milk, using it cold, and add to the scalded milk. Stir 
until thickened and cook for 20 minutes. Add a few 
grains salt and serve cold with Hood's medium cream, 
unbeaten. 

MarcK 6 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

« 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Reheated Nut Loaf* Prepared March 5. 

Cabbage Scalloped with Cheese 

Refer to November 5, 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Dried Apple Pie 

Prepare pastry, refer to November 9, and line a plate. 
Soak Yz pound of dried or evaporated apples over 
night in cold water to cover. In the morning drain and 
pick over. Fill into the lined plate, add % cup of the 
water in which the apples were soaked, Yz cup sugar, few 
grains salt, few gratings nutmeg and i teaspoon Hood's 
butter. Cover with pastry, brush over with Hood's milk 
and bake about 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Baked Beans with Tomato Sauce 

Refer to January 16. 



234 DAILY LIVING 

Boston Brown Breads Refer to November 7. 

Maple Custards 

Use y^ cup maple syrup in place of sugar and proceed 
as for baked custards, refer to November 7. 

MarcK 7 

Creamed Beef 

Soak ^ package dried beef in cold water 5 minutes. 
Drain, put in double boiler, add i cup Hood's milk, and 
when scalded add 2 tablespoons flour diluted with cold 
water to pour. Cook 10 minutes, then add 2 table- 
spoons Hood's butter and season with salt. 

Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Chicken Southern Style* Refer to November i. 
Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Custard Ice Cream 

Scald I pint Hood's milk and stir into it i tablespoon 
cornstarch mixed with j^ cup sugar; cook 15 minutes. 
Mix I of Hood's eggs with % cup more sugar, add a 
little of the hot mixture and stir into the remaining mixt- 
ure. Cool, add I pint Hood's light cream and 1 3^ 
tablespoons vanilla. Freeze, using 3 parts ice to i part 
salt. Makes 3 pints cream. 

Raisin and Nut Sandwich 

Put y^ cup raisins and % cup nut meats through the 
meat chopper. Spread on bread and butter sandwiches. 

Harrison Cake 

Prepared March i. 



HOOD'S MILK 235 



MarcH 8 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Rice Omelet 

Use rice in place of bread and prepare as bread omelet, 
refer to March 3. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

Coffee Jelly* Refer to November 2. 

Chicken Croquettes 

Use 1 74 cup chicken in place of lamb and prepare as 
lamb croquettes, refer to January 12. 

White Sauce with Peas 

Add yi can of drained and rinsed peas to white sauce, 
refer to November 6. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Steamed Pudding* Refer to November 2. 
Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

MarcH 9 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Buttermilk Griddle Cakes 

Add I of Hood's eggs well beaten to i cup Hood's 
buttermilk. Mix and sift i ^ cups flour with i teaspoon 
soda and ^ teaspoon salt. Add the liquid gradually and 
beat until smooth. P^ry as griddle cakes, refer to January i. 



236 DAILY LIVING 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

St* Germain Pea Soup 

Use I quart stock left from cooking fowl and 3^ can 
peas in place of corn, and prepare as St. Germain corn 
soup, refer to January 1 1 . 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Broiled Steak with Onions 

Parboil 4 onions 15 minutes in boiling salted water 
with }i teaspoon soda. Drain and cut in small pieces. 
Put I pound top of round steak, cut ^ inch in thickness, 
in frying pan, place the onions on top of steak and pan 
broil about 4 minutes, then turn the steak, and place 
the onions on top, and broil until the steak is rare 
cooked, about 3 minutes more. Remove steak to plat- 
ter, season with salt, add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter to 
the onions and fry until tender, season with salt and 
serve on the steak. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I . 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange* Refer to February 10. 

MarcK lO 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Potato Puff* Refer to January 25. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Bean Rarebit 

Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add i teaspoon salt, 
few grains paprika, i cup cold baked beans and )^ cup 
stewed and strained tomato. When thoroughly heated 



HOOD'S MILK 237 



add Yt. cup Hood's full cream cheese, grated, and serve 
on toasted bread. Make in the double boiler or in the 
chafing dish, using the hot water pan. 

Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Refer to February 6. 

Dried Apple Sauce 

Pick over and soak over night, in cold water to cover, 
Yi. pound dried or evaporated apples. Cook in the same 
water until soft and smooth. Sweeten to taste and add 
the juice of 3^ lemon. 

Fish Chowder 

Refer to December 4. 

Lemon Pie 

Line a pie plate as for custard pie with pastry and fill 
with lemon filling. Bake about Y hour. 

Lemon Filling 

Mix Y\ cup sugar, 3 tablespoons cornstarch ; add i 
cup hot water gradually, cooking until thickened and 
transparent. Remove from the fire, add the grated rind 
and juice of i lemon and the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs 
unbeaten. Stir until blended. 

Meringue 

Beat the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs until stiff, using 
a plate and silver fork. Beat in gradually i tablespoon 
granulated sugar, and fold in i tablespoon more sugar. 
Spread on the cooled pie and bake 1 5 minutes in a slow 
oven. 

March 11 

Wheat Cereal. Refer to November 2. 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 



238 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 
Split Pea Soup. Refer to February 5. 
Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 
Tarts. Refer to December 26. 

Fish Timbals 

To I pound cooked halibut, finely chopped, add yz 
cup Hood's heavy cream beaten stiff, i teaspoon salt, few- 
drops onion juice, i teaspoon lemon juice and few grains 
paprika. Fold in the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs beaten 
stiff. Bake in 8 buttered moulds about 20 minutes, or 
until firm. Serve with 

Hollandaise Sauce 

To the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs add ]^ teaspoon 
salt, few grains paprika, yz cup hot water and yz oi yi 
cup of Hood's butter, washed. Stir constantly over hot 
water until the butter has melted, then add the second 
third of butter, and as the sauce thickens add remaining 
butter ; when the' butter has melted remove sauce from 
the fire and add i tablespoon lemon juice. 

French Fried Potatoes 

Refer to January 5. 

Coffee Mousse 

Add ^ cup cold strong coffee, yi cup sugar, to Yz 
cup Hood's heavy cream diluted with y^ cup Hood's 
milk or add i cup Hood's medium cream. Beat with the 
Qgg beater until thick, then put in mould and let stand 3 
hours, packed in equal parts ice and salt. 



HOOD'S MILK 239 



MarcH 12 

Oat Cereal 

Refer to November 4. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Arrange in alternate layers in a buttered baking dish 
I pint canned tomatoes and Yi cup buttered cracker 
crumbs. Season with salt and pepper, and bake about 
15 minutes in a hot oven. 

Rye Muffins 

Use the yolks of 2 eggs in place of i ^gg. Refer 
to November 7. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 
Refer to December 24. 

Buttermilk Doughnuts* Refer to February 6. 

Corn Chowder* Refer to December 1 1 . 

German Apple Cake 

Make a baking powder biscuit mixture using i cup 
Hood's milk, refer to November 2. Turn into a buttered 
cake tin, and press slices of apple into the dough. Bake 
about y^, hour in a moderate oven. Serve with 

Maple Sauce 

Beat the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs stiff, and pour on 
slowly ^ cup hot maple syrup. 

MarcK 13 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 



240 DAILY LIVING 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Scalloped Clams 

Use I pint clams in place of oysters, and prepare as 
scalloped oysters, refer to December 1 1 . 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 

Sliced Oranges* Refer to December 28. 

Hermits 

Cream i cup Hood's butter, add i ^ cups sugar and 
I cup chopped raisins, then add 3 of Hood's eggs beaten 
until light and 3 cups flour mixed and sifted with i 
teaspoon each soda, nutmeg, and cloves. Add more flour 
if needed. Chill, roll and shape. Bake in a slow oven. 

March I4 

Beans Reheated* Refer to November I. 
Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i . 
Buttermilk Doughnuts* Prepared March 12. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Boiled Leg of Lamb 

Order a 5 lb. leg of lamb, and cook as fowl. Southern 
style, using water in place of milk, refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 241 



Caper Sauce 

Add % cup flour diluted with cold water to pour to i 
pint lamb stock. Cook 5 minutes, season with salt, add 
% cup capers, drained, and pour around the lamb. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Creamed Onions* Refer to January 24. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Frozen Chocolate 

Prepare chocolate as in suggestions for children's 
parties, refer to February, and freeze, using 3 parts ice 
and I part salt. 

MarcH 15 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 6. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Tomato and Rice Soup 

Add I cup thick part of canned tomatoes and }^ cup 
rice to 2 quarts lamb stock, and cook until the rice is 
soft. Season with salt. 

Hermit Cookies* Prepared March 13. 

Cold Boiled Lamb* Prepared March 14. 

Mint Sauce 

Add I % tablespoons sugar to }( cup each vinegar 
and water. Pour over yi cup mint leaves, either dried 
or fresh. Let stand 20 minutes, then strain out part of 
the leaves. 



242 DAILY LIVING 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 6. 
Indian Pudding* Refer to November 5. 

MarcK 16 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November i. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Potato Soup* Refer to January 16. 
Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 
Fruit Biscuit* Refer to February 23. 
Orange Jelly* Refer to December 7. 

Lamb Souffle 

Use lamb in place of fish and prepare as fish souffle, 
refer to January 9. 

Mint Jelly 

Soak y^ tablespoon granulated gelatin in 2 table- 
spoons cold water. Boil }i cup each sugar and vinegar 
about 3 minutes ; add the gelatin, and a few grains each 
salt and paprika ; then add Yz cup mint leaves, either 
dried or fresh, chopped fine. Set the dish in water and 
stir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
turn into a glass and stiffen. 

Moulded Cheese Salad 

Prepare quick mayonnaise dressing, omitting the white 
of egg, refer to December 8. Add 3^ cup Hood's full 
cream cheese grated, and form into balls. Serve on 
shredded lettuce. 



HOOD'S MILK 243 

MarcH 17 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Baked Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Stewed Lima Beans* Refer to December 30. 
Xoasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Hermit Cookies* Prepared March 13. 
Baked Halibut* Refer to December 9. 

Horseradish HoIIandaise 

Add Yz cup horseradish drained to hollandaise sauce, 
refer to March 4. 

Duchess Potatoes 

Omit milk and add the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs to 
mashed potatoes, refer to November i. 

Angel Cake 

Beat the whites of 5 of Hood's eggs until stiff with 
% teaspoon salt. Mix and sift 3 times % cup each 
sugar and flour, and ^ teaspoon each cream tartar 
and baking powder. Fold the dry ingredients into the 
beaten eggs, add % teaspoon vanilla, and bake about ^ 
hour in a bread tin. 

MarcH 18 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes. Refer to January i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 



244 DAILY LIVING 

Fish Omelet 

Flake the left over halibut in small pieces, and spread 
on the yolks of 4 of Hood's eggs in the omelet pan, 
after the yolks have set, and before adding the whites 
of eggs. Prepare as omelet, refer to December 5. 

White Sauce. Refer to November 6. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. Refer to November 2. 

Sliced Oranges* Refer to December 28. 

Baked Broiler Chicken 

Order a 2 ]b. broiler, split. Wash, wipe, put in bak- 
ing pan, skin side up, season with salt, add 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter melted in 2 tablespoons hot water. Bake 
about 20 minutes or until tender. Remove to platter 
and pour over 2 tablespoons Hood's butter melted. 

Broiled Potatoes* Refer to January 26. 

Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 

Savory French Dressing 

Use as seasonings >^ teaspoon salt, few grains each 
mustard and paprika,^ and few drops onion juice and pre- 
pare French dressing, refer to November 7. 

Stewed Prunes. Refer to December 4. 

MarcK 19 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Rye Muffins. Refer to November 7. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 245 



Hulled Corn 

Add I quart hulled corn to 2 cups Hood's milk, 
scalded, and reheat in double boiler. May be served 
cold. 

Hermit Cookies* Prepared March 13. 

Jellied Prunes* Refer to December 5 . 

Fish Chowder* Refer to December 4. 

Hot Gingerbread* Refer to November 3. 

MarcK 20 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Dip the biscuit in Hood's milk, and reheat in hot oven. 

Dried Beef with White Sauce 

Soak y^ package dried beef i o minutes in warm water 
to cover, and serve with white sauce, refer to November 6. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Fish Croquettes* Refer to December 19. 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Add y^ cup molasses, ^ teaspoon salt to 2 cups 
Hood's milk scalded. When lukewarm add i yeast cake 
dissolved in ^ cup lukewarm water, and 4 ^ cups entire 
wheat or graham flour, unsifted. Beat well, let rise un- 
til doubled in bulk, beat again, turn into 2 buttered pans, 
let rise again, and bake about i hour in a moderate oven. 

Ginger Cakes* Refer to November 4. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 



246 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Kidney Beans* Refer to December 26. 
Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 
Custard Pie* Refer to January 30. 

MarcK 21 

Corn Griddle Cakes 

Omit }( cup flour, and add i cup canned corn to 
sweet milk griddle cakes, refer to January i . 

Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Boiled Fowl* Refer to November i. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Maple Mousse 

Beat % cup Hood's medium cream until stiff and 
% cup maple syrup carefully. Put in mould, and let 
stand 3 hours in equal parts ice and salt. 

Cold Baked Beans* Prepared March 20. 

Toasted Graham Bread. Refer to November 2. 

Tarts* Refer to December 26. 

Fruit* Cream 

Use % cup orange, or any preserved fruit, in place of 
apple, in apple cream, refer to December 21. 

MarcH 22 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 



HOOD'S MILK 247 



Spider Corn Cake 

Mix and sift ^ cup corn meal, y^ cup flour, i % tea- 
spoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons sugar and i tea- 
spoon salt. Add 2 of Hood's eggs well beaten and Yz 
cup Hood's milk. Turn into a buttered frying pan, 
heated smoking hot. Set in oven, pour in ^ cup more 
Hood's milk, and bake about 30 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Kidney Bean Salad* Refer to December 29. 

Horseradish Dressing 

Add Y- teaspoon salt and few grains paprika to 
Y cup horseradish, drain, then fold in carefully }i cup 
Hood's medium cream, beaten thick. 

Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 

Chicken Bechamel* Refer to November 9. 

Corn Custard 

Use % can corn in place of potato, and prepare as 
potato puff, refer to January 25. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5 . 

Orange Short Cake* Refer to December 14. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

March 23 

Scotch Oatmeal 

Soak I cup coarse oatmeal, i teaspoon salt, 4 cups cold 
water 2 hours, then cook in double boiler 3 hours, 
stirring occasionally. Cook the day before serving and 



248 DAILY LIVING 

reheat for breakfast. Pack the left over cereal into 
small cups, set the cups in pan of hot water, and re- 
heat in oven for serving. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

White Cream Soup* Refer to November 2. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Chocolate Raisin Cake 

Cream ^ cup Hood's butter, add i cup sugar, ^ cup 
raisins, 2 of Hood's eggs well beaten. Mix and sift i ys 
cups flour with 2}4 teaspoons baking powder, and add 
alternately with }2 cup Hood's milk to the first mixture. 
Then add two squares melted chocolate. Bake about 
40 minutes. 

Irish Stew 

Wipe and cut in small pieces 2 lbs. lamb from fore- 
quarter. Put in kettle, cover with boiling water, add i 
teaspoon salt, and set in oven. Cook i j4 hours, then 
add I small carrot and i small turnip cut in cubes, and 
I onion sliced fine. Cook 2 hours more, then add 3 
cups potatoes parboiled 5 minutes in boiling water, then 
drained. Set on stove and boil 1 5 minutes, steaming 
dumplings at same time. Refer to December 21. 
Thicken stew with 3 tablespoons flour diluted with 
cold water to pour. 

Bread and Fruit Mould 

Refer to December 1 1 . 



HOOD'S MILK 249 

MarcK 24 

Moulded Scotch OatmeaL Prepared March 23. 
Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes* Refer to January I . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Raw Oysters 

Pick over, looking for pieces of shell, i pint oysters, 
season with salt, and serve very cold with 

Cocktail Sauce 

Mix I tablespoon horseradish, few grains paprika, i 
tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 3 tablespoons tomato 
ketchup, and >^ teaspoon salt, chill thoroughly. 

Chocolate Raisin Cake* Prepared March 23. 
Lamb Fricassee* Refer to November 18. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Mashed Turnips* Refer to November 6. 
Sliced Oranges* Refer to December 28. 

MarcK 25 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes* Refer to December 24. 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Lamb Cream Soup* Refer to November 14. 

Crisp Crackers. Refer to December 23. 



250 DAILY LIVING 

Stewed Prunes^ Refer to December 4. 
Chocolate Raisin Cake^ Prepared March 23. 

Planked Steak 

Panbroil i lb. steak cut from top of round 3 minutes 
on one side. Remove to an oak plank, cooked side 
down, and finish broiling under the gas flame, or on the 
top grate in the range oven. Garnish with buttered 
beets and 

Potato Roses 

To 2 cups hot riced potatoes add 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter, y^. teaspoon salt, and the yolks of 2 of Hood's 
eggs. Shape and reheat in hot oven. 

Buttered Beets 

Drain and rinse i can small beets, reheat ^ can in 
boiling salted water. Drain and add 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter melted. 

Rice Pudding 

Refer to December 14. 

MarcK 26 

Oat Cereal 

Refer to November 4. 

Boiled Eggs Soft Cooked 

Put 4 of Hood's eggs into rapidly boiling water. 
Cover saucepan tightly, remove from the heat, and let 
stand 12 minutes in the hot water. 

Toasted Breads Refer to November i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Steamed Rice with Cheese* Refer to December 4. 



HOOD'S MILK 251 

Prune Pie 

Line a plate with pastry, refer to November 9, and fill 
with ^ lb. stewed prunes, refer to December 4, cover 
with an upper crust and bake about 45 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

Salt Fish with Salt Pork 

Soak ^ lb. salt fish ^ hour in lukewarm water. 
Drain, lay on platter, and pour over % lb. salt pork fat, 
with the scraps, which has been fried until brown. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Pickled Beets* Refer to January 23. 

Steamed Pudding* Refer to November 2. 

Hot Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

MarcK 27 

Potatoes Creamed with Codfish 

Prepare creamed potatoes, refer to November 4, and 
add any left over fish, picked in small pieces. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Tripe with Tomato Sauce 

Prepare tomato sauce, refer to December 12, and add 
I lb. tripe, cut in strips. Cook 10 minutes, or until tripe 
is soft, then season with salt. 

Fried Biscuit* Refer to January 12. 

Stewed Figs* Refer to November 1 7. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 



252 DAILY LIVING 

Brown Breads Refer to November 7. 
Caramel Custards^ Refer to February 2^. 

MarcK 28 

Fish Balls in Pork Fat 

Prepare fish balls, refer to November 8, and brown in 
pork fat. 

Reheated Brown Breads Refer to November i. 

Coffee» Refer to November i . 

Grapefruit* Refer to January 3. 

Roast Chicken* Refer to November 8. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i. 

Boiled Spinach* Refer to February 2. 

Chocolate Rice Meringue 

Scald two cups Hood's milk, add Y^ cup rice, ^ tea- 
spoon salt, and cook until the rice is soft ; add ^ cup 
sugar, I square melted chocolate, and the yolks of 2 of 
Hood's eggs, and ^ cup Hood's medium cream, beaten 
stiff. Bake 15 minutes. Then cover with meringue, 
refer to March 10. 

Creamy Welsh Rarebit 

Melt I tablespoon Hood's butter, add 2 teaspoons 
cornstarch, and gradually ^ cup Hood's milk. Cook 
over hot water 3 minutes, then add i cup Hood's full 
cream cheese cut in small pieces. When cheese is melted 
season with salt and paprika, and serve on crackers. 



HOOD'S MILK 253 



MarcK 29 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Baked Beans Reheated^ Refer to November i. 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
Potato Soup* Refer to January 1 6. 

Spinach Salad 

Chop cold boiled spinach finely, moisten with salad 
dressing, and arrange on lettuce leaves. Garnish with 
slices of 2 of Hood's eggs hard boiled. 

Hard Boiled Eggs 

Cover eggs with boiling water and let stand where 
the water will keep hot 45 minutes without boiling, then 
cover with cold water, and when cool take off the shells. 

Boiled Oil Dressing 

Add 2 tablespoons each oil and vinegar to the yolks of 
2 of Hood's eggs, and cook in the double boiler until 
the mixture thickens. When cold add 2 tablespoons 
more oil, ^ teaspoon salt, i tablespoon sugar, and a few 
grains mustard. 

Chicken Croquettes* Refer to March 8. 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Shredded Potatoes* Refer to February 12. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

MarcK 30 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 



254 DAILY LIVING 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Goffee* Refer to November i . 

Buttermilk Doughnuts* Refer to February 6. 

Macaroni Baked with Tomato 

Prepare as macaroni with cheese, refer to December 
9, and arrange in alternate layers with i pint canned 
tomatoes, and reheat in hot oven. 

Cod Boiled in Milk 

Tie 3 lbs, fresh codfish in a piece of cheese cloth 
and start cooking in i pint of boiling water, with one 
teaspoon salt. In 10 minutes, add 3 cups Hood's milk, 
and simmer until the fish is dry and flakes apart. Re- 
move to platter and pour over 

Fish Sauce 

Prepare as white sauce, refer to November 6, and 
use in place of milk i cup of stock in which fish was 
cooked. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 

Indian Pudding* Refer to November 5 . 

MarcH 31 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 



HOOD'S MILK 255 



Q*eam Fish Soup 

. Prepare as white cream soup, using fish stock. Refer 
to November 2. 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Buttermilk Doughnuts* Prepared March 30. 

Fish and Potato Cutlets 

Flake in small pieces the left over fish, add an equal 
amount hot mashed potatoes, season with salt and pap- 
rika, and moisten enough to hold in shape with Hood's 
milk. Shape in flat round cakes. Dip in crumbs, 
Hood's Qgg, and crumbs, fry in deep fat, and drain on 
brown paper. 

Buttermilk Rolls* Refer to February 26. 

Mince Pie* Refer to November 26. 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" The milch cow transmutes the pasturage and forage of the 
farm into edible protein, lactose and fat — into units of nutriment 
for man — at less than one-half the cost of similar units in beef 
produced by the steer. Milk is not only the most economical, but, 
when pure and undefiled, it is among the most wholesome and it 
is the most easily digestible of all foods of animal origin. These 
are the strongest possible reasons for its extended use. 

" Leonard Pearson, 

" Dean of the Veterinary Faculty of the University of Pennsylvania, State 
Veterinarian of Pennsylvania, Monbcr of the Advisory Board of the 
State Department of Health, and Metnber of the Board of Health, 
PhiladelpliiaP 



256 



DAILY LIVING 



Cost of I^iving for MarcH 



March 1-8 

12 qts. milk $1.08 

zy^ lbs. butter 98 

I yi doz. eggs 60 

Jar medmm cream 10 

9 jars light cream 63 

^2 lb. cheese 11 

I cottage cheese 05 

Cereal and spices and salt. . .08 
Coffee and baking powder.. .30 

Flour and 2 yeast cakes 24 

Sugar and Y^ roast beef 58 

8 oranges 16 

Dried fruit, raisins, etc 15 

Spaghetti and macaroni 04 

I lb. prunes 12 

Tomato 02 

1 pint clams 10 

Codfish and potatoes 08 

Lard and doz. bananas 23 

Indian and rye meal 04 

Graham flour .01 

2 lb. broiler 46 

Lettuce and oil 18 

Maple syrup 05 

Apples 05 

^ pt. black beans 03 

Haddock, 4 lbs 28 

Rice 03 

Ice and salt 07 

I lemon 02 

y^ pt. oysters 10 

Vanilla 05 

Jelly 05 

Crackers 03 

Chocolate 03 

% lb. bacon 04 

Dried apples 04 

Beans 08 

Salt pork 06 

Pickles 04 

Walnut meats 20 

Molasses and vinegar 04 

}4. package dried beef'. 06 

I pt. peaches 10 

^ of 5 lb. fowl 25 

Total for week. . . . .^8.04 



March 8 -IS 

12 qts. milk ;^i.o8 

2)4 lbs. butter 98 

I }/2 doz. eggs 60 

7 jars light cream 49 

I jar heavy cream 15 

I jar medium cream 10 

y^ lb. full cream cheese ti 

Cottage cheese 05 

I pt. buttermilk 04 

2^ of 5 lb. fowl, 75 cts 50 

Cereal and spices and salt. . .10 
Coffee and baking powder. . .33 

Flour and 2 yeast cakes 24 

Sugar and Gelatin 20 

Lard and can peas 20 

Maple syrup 10 

Quinces 10 

1 lb. top of round 25 

Sea moss or 

Potatoes 08 

Onions 05 

y^ lb. dried apples 04 

X lb. bacon 04 

Split peas 03 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

Pickles 04 

2 lemons 04 

Tomatoes 03 

Rye meal 01 

Graham flour 02 

Can corn 12 

Codfish 02 

Beans 08 

Pork 04 

Crackers 05 

Jelly 06 

Macaroni 03 

Pt. clams 10 

4 oranges . . . , 09 

Raisins 03 

5 lbs. leg of lamb, 16 cts. lb., 

80 cts., % of lamb 20 

Ice and salt 07 

Capers 02 

Chocolate 05 

Total for week $7.25 



HOOD'S MILK 



257 



March 15-22 

13 qts. milk ^1.17 

i^ doz. eggs 60 

2% lbs. butter 98 

7 half pint jars light cream . . .49 
I jar thick cream 15 

1 jar medium cream 10 

^ lb. full cream cheese 11 

Cottage cheese 05 

% leg of lamb 60 

Coffee 28 

Potatoes 08 

Cereal 08 

Rye and Indian meal 04 

Rice 02 

Flour 20 

Raisins 06 

Sugar 18 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Spices and salt 02 

Baking powder 02 

Molasses and vinegar 04 

Dried mint 04 

Gelatin 05 

Tomato 05 

Crackers 10 

1 doz. oranges 25 

Lettuce 08 

Oil 10 

Codfish 02 

Lima beans 03 

Jelly 05 

Horseradish 05 

Peaches 10 

Maple syrup 10 

2 lb. broiler 46 

I qt. hulled corn 12 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

y^ package dried beef 06 

4 shredded wheat biscuit... .04 

Lard 05 

I qt. kidney beans 10 

j4, can corn 06 

y^ 5 lb. fowl, 75 cts 25 

Onions 05 

Ice and salt 05 

I lb. prunes 12 

Pickles 04 

Total for week ^8.01 



March 22-31 

16 qts. milk ^1.44 

3|^ lbs. butter 1.47 

2 doz. eggs 80 

2 jars medium cream 20 

10 half pint jars light cream .70 

I pt. buttermilk 04 

%, lb. cheese 11 

Cottage cheese 05 

Shredded wheat biscuit 04 

Cereal 08 

Chicken, ^ 37 

Potatoes 10 

yi can corn 06 

Crackers 10 

8 oranges 17 

Horseradish 04 

Flour and coffee 60 

Sugar and 3 yeast cakes 30 

Rice 05 

Codfish 15 

Chocolate 08 

Canned fruit 25 

4 lbs. forequarter lamb 40 

Nuts and maple syrup 10 

Pt. oysters 20 

Seasoning & baking powder .10 

Vegetables 04 

% lb. bacon 04 

Tomato 03 

I lb. prunes 12 

I lb. top of round steak 25 

Can beets 15 

I lb. tripe 12 

>^ lb. figs 08 

Salt pork 08 

Beans 08 

Rye and Indian meal 05 

4 lb. chicken 72 

I peck spinach 20 

Lard 08 

Oil 05 

Macaroni 03 

Lettuce 08 

3 lbs. cod 36 

Mince meat 05 

Total for week ^10.61 

Total for month i?33-9i 



258 



DAILY LIVING 



Lo'virering 

March 1-8 



Omit coffee 

7 jars light cream 

Cream beef, use beans ...... 

Jar medium cream 

Oranges, i8 cts., use apples, 
3cts 

Butter cake for Harrison 
cake, difference butter 
and fruit 

Bacon 

Use English beef soup, 8 
cts., for carni con chili, 
46 cts 

Omit maple syrup 

Pickles . « 

Jelly 

Oysters from scalloped fish 



^0.28 
.49 
.08 
.10 



•15 



.24 
.04 



.38 

•05 
.04 

•05 
.10 

^2.00 



March 8-15 

Omit 7 jars light cream ^0.49 

Medium cream 10 

Maple syrup . . . . 10 

Bacon 04 

Jelly 06 

Pickles 04 

Capers 02 

^0.85 



tHe Cost 

March 15=22 

Omit 7 jars light cream. . , .^0.49 

Coffee 28 

Raisins 06 

Cottage cheese 05 

Mint sauce and jelly 06 

Jelly 05 

Horseradish 05 

Peaches 10 

Maple syrup 10 

Pickles 04 

2 lb. broiler, 46 cts., use i^ 
lbs. forequarter chops, 
18 cts 28 



I1.56 



March 22-31 

Coffee $0.35 

10 jars light cream .70 

2 jars medium cream. 20 

Maple syrup 05 

Bacon 04 

Mince pie 05 

Horseradish 04 

Can beets 1 5 

Oysters with sauce, 23 cts., 
use rice with cheese, 5 

cts 18 

Butter cake for chocolate 

cake 10 

$1.86 
Total for month ^6.27 



HOOD'S MILK 259 



Invalid Recipes 



Rice Water 

Pick over and wash i ^ tablespoons rice, add i pint 
cold water, and cook in the double boiler until the rice 
is soft. Strain, season with salt, and add the desired 
amount of Hood's cream or milk. 

Grape Juice 

Pick over and wash 3 cups Concord grapes. Add 2 
cups cold water and cook i ^ hours in a saucepan set 
in another saucepan containing hot water, or in the 
double boiler. Strain, and let drip several hours, then 
add I cup sugar, and cook over hot water 20 minutes. 
Cool and bottle. 

Egg Nog 

Beat I of Hood's eggs slightly, add ^ cup Hood's 
milk, I tablespoon sugar, and flavor as desired. 

Foamy Egg Nog 

Separate the yolk and white of one of Hood's eggs, 
beat the white stiff and add last to egg nog. 

Bottled Beef Tea 

Wipe and cut in small pieces i lb. steak from top of 
round. Add 1 pint cold water, place in a canning jar 
and cover. Set on a trivet in a kettle of cold water. 
Heat the water to 130 degrees and let cook for 2 hours. 
Strain and season with salt. 

Broiled Beef Juice 

Broil ^2 lb. round steak for 3 minutes. Put on a hot 
plate, cut in small pieces and extract the juice. Season 
with salt and reheat in a cup set in a dish of hot water. 



26o DAILY LIVING 



Cracker Gruel 

Scald I cup milk, add i ^ tablespoons rolled cracker 
crumbs, cook in double boiler 5 minutes, add % teaspoon 
salt. 

Flour Gruel 

Mix 2 tablespoons flour with % cup cold milk, add 
to I yi cups scalded milk, and cook in double boiler 30 
minutes. Season with salt. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

Add % teaspoon salt and % cup coarse oatmeal to 3 
cups boiling water. Cook 3 hours in double boiler. 
Strain and dilute with milk. 

Milk Toast 

Scald I cup Hood's milk, add tablespoon flour diluted 

with cold milk to pour, and cook in double boiler 20 

minutes. Add i tablespoon Hood's butter and season 

with salt. Pour over 2 slices of toasted bread. 

Dropped Egg 

Break i of Hood's eggs carefully in a cup and slip 
onto a buttered skimmer placed in a shallow pan of hot 
water. Keep below boiling point and cook until the 
white is firm. Then slip onto a slice of toast. 

Boiled Eggs 

Cover Hood's eggs with boiling water and cook in hot 
water from six to eight minutes, for soft boiled eggs (45 
minutes if hard boiled). 



Month of April 



Serving Food for the Convalescent 



In choosing food for the convalescent, select only that 
which is easy of digestion and at the same time contains 
the most nourishment. 

The white class of fish, like haddock or halibut, is the 
only fish which should be served in the sick room, as 
fish like salmon, having oil and fat, is difiicult of diges- 
tion. Avoid rich sauces, and all reheated food, except 
toasted bread. Baked potatoes are better served than 
boiled potatoes, as the starch raised to the temperature 
of steam is more perfectly cooked. All highly seasoned 
food should be avoided. In arranging the tray choose 
plain doilies and napkins rather than those with fringe. 
In the centre of the tray at the front edge is placed a 
small plate. At the right of the plate place a small 
knife, with the cutting edge toward the plate, at the point 
of the knife place a tumbler of water, at the left of the 
plate, place the fork, with the tines up, and beyond the 
fork, the spoon. Fold the napkin, and lay above and 
under the edge of the plate. Back of the plate place 
remaining dishes. A cup or small bowl is more satis- 
factory for serving soup than the soup plate. The edge 
of the tray should be covered with the doily without ex- 
tending over the edge. All hot dishes should be served 
hot, and covered, and cold dishes cold. The glasses and 
cups should not be filled more than two-thirds full, so 
that tray may be carried without spilling. The handles 
of the cups and silver should all face the front of the 
tray, and when passing the tray avoid having the patient 
turn the tray around. 

263 



264 DAILY LIVING 

If possible, do not serve dessert with the remainder of 
the dinner. Do not serve food so that it will grow cold 
before being eaten. Choose pretty dishes, clean linen, 
and bright silver. If the quantity to be served is small 
use small dishes. Avoid leaving food uneaten in the 
sick room. If possible, do not consult the patient in re- 
gard to the serving. Have as much variety as possible. 
All food served to the convalescent should be perfectly 
cooked and daintily served, and should be chosen as 
directed by the physician, to agree with condition of the 
patient. 

The principal object in serving food for the convales- 
cent is to obtain the most nourishment possible, at the 
same time choosing only that which is easy of digestion. 



HOOD'S MILK 265 



April \ 

BreaRfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Fried Eggs and Bacon 

Baked Potatoes Coffee 

L'UiicKeon or Supper 

Turnip Cream Soup Croutons 

Coffee Jelly Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Lamb Cutlets Tomato Sauce 

Steamed Rice 
Fried Pancakes Caramel Syrup 



April 2 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Rice Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Macaroni with Cheese Stewed Prunes 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Planked Fish Souffle Potato Roses 

Hollandaise Sauce Welsh Cheese Cakes 



April 3 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

L'tincHeon or Dinner 

Fish Bouillon Rye Bread and Butter 

Tripe in Batter 
Molasses Cookies Cottage Cheese 

Dinner or Stipper 

Baked Kidney Beans Chili Sauce 

Brown Bread Lemon Custard Pie 



266 DAILY LIVING 

April 4 

BreaRfast 

Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread Reheated 

Stewed Prunes Coffee 

Dinner 

Stuffed Roast Veal Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Onions 
Fruit Ice Cream, Moulded with Whipped Cream 

Tea 

Toasted Bread Hot Chocolate Ice Cream 



April 5 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Potato Cakes 

Reheated Brown Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Baked Bean Salad Cream Oil Dressing 

Rye Bread and Butter 

Molasses Cookies Tea 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Veal Potato Puff 

Boiled Spinach 
Chocolate Cottage Pudding Custard Sauce 



April 6 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Cheese Cream Soup Crisp Crackers 

Canned Fruit Hot Biscuit 

Dinner 

Veal Pot Pie Baked Dumplings 

Baked Bananas Molasses Cookies 



HOOD'S MILK 267 

April 7 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Bananas 
Graham Muffins Coffee 

L'tincHeon or Supper 

String Bean Salad Cream Oil Dressing 

Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dried Apple Sauce Molasses Cookies 

Dinner 

Macaroni with Meat Tapioca Cream 



April 8 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Oven Broiled Bacon 

Baked Potatoes Coffee 

Lt&nclieoii or Stipper 

Potato Soup Crackers 

French Toast Jelly 

Dinner 

Fish in Ramekins Delmonico Potatoes 

Dressed Lettuce 
Maple Mousse Molasses Cookies 



April 9 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L>u.ncHeon or Stipper 

Grapefruit Salad Toasted Cheese Sandwiches 

Hot Cross Buns Cocoa 

Dinner 

Baked Shad Roe Tomato Sauce 

Buttered Potatoes 
Banana Pudding Boiled Custard 



268 



DAILY LIVING 



April 10 



Oat Cereal 



BreaKfast 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs 



Toasted Bread 



Coffee 



L'tinicKeoni or Dinner 

Broiled Cod Steak Creamed Potatoes 

Hot Biscuit Grapefruit 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans Baked with Tomato Steamed Graham Bread 
Loaf Chocolate Cake Marshmallow Frosting 



April n 

BreaKfast 




Eggs Poached in Cream 


Toasted Brown Bread 


Grapefruit ' 


Coffee 


Dinner 




Roast Chicken 


Gravy 


Steamed Rice Jelly 


Dressed Lettuce 


Easter Pudding 

Tea 

Crackers and Milk 


Yellow Sauce 
Chocolate Cake 


Cottage Cheese 





April 12 



BreaRfast 



Oat Cereal 

Maple Syrup 



Rice Griddle Cakes 
Coffee 



L-tincHeon or Supper 

Baked Beans Reheated Toasted Brown Bread 

Canned Fruit Chocolate Cake 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Chicken Tartar Sauce French Fried Potatoes 

Creamed Parsnips Rhubarb Pie 



HOOD'S MILK 269 



April 13 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Bananas 
Corn Cake Coffee 

LuncKeozi or Supper 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese Hot Biscuit 

Rhubarb Sauce Chocolate Cake 

Dinner 

Veal Cutlets Mashed Potatoes Brown Sauce 

French Dressing Lettuce and Walnut Salad 

Bread and Butter 



April 14 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LxincKeon or Sxipper 

Potato Soup Crisp Crackers 

Baked Bananas Chocolate Cake 

Baked Creamed Shad Roe French Rolls 

Pineapple Fritters Currant Jelly Sauce 



April 15 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Dropped Eggs on Toast Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Potato Soup Crisp Crackers 

Reheated French Rolls Canned Fruit 

Dinner 

Creole Steak Delmonico Potatoes 

Floating Island 



270 DAILY LIVING 

April \6 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Baked Potatoes Coffee 

L'UncHeon or Supper 

Pineapple Salad French Dressing 

Bread and Butter 
Cottage Cheese Crackers 

Dinner 

Nut Souffle Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Baked Tapioca Pudding 



April 17 



BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato Coffee 

Dinner or LuncKeon 

Dried Beef Potato Salad 

Boiled Cream Dressing 

Hot Biscuit Dried Apple Pie 

Dinner or Stxpper 

Baked Beans Steamed Graham Bread 

Sponge Pie Whipped Cream 



April 18 

BreaRfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Graham Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Chicken Toasted Bread 

Steamed Rice Jelly 

Cold Cabinet Pudding Sponge Drops 

Tea 

Cheese and Jelly Sandwiches Cocoa 

Whipped Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 271 



April 19 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Rice Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

LtincHeon or Supper 

White Cream Soup Croutons 

Rhubarb Jelly Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Broiled Ham Baked Potatoes 

Lettuce with Boiled Dressing Bread and Butter 



April 20 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Reheated Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

LrtincHeon or iSupper 

Stuffed Red Peppers Hot Rye Biscuit 

Cold Rhubarb Pie 

Dinner 

Cold Boiled Ham Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 



April 21 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Dried Beef 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L>tincl\eon or Stipper 

Macaroni with Cheese Rye Bread and Butter 

Hot Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Cold Ham German Potato Salad 

Banana Fritters Currant Jelly Sauce 



272 DAILY LIVING 

April 22 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Bananas 
Corn Cake Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Ham Omelet Bread and Butter 

Ginger Cakes Whipped Cream 

Dinner 

Fricassee Veal Boiled Potatoes 

Boiled Onions Banberry Tarts 



April 23 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Dried Apple Sauce 

Popovers Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Stipper 

Baked Eggs Toasted Bread 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

Dinner 

Baked Fillets of Halibut White Sauce 

Lyonnaise Potatoes Indian Pudding 



April 24 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat with Creamed Codfish Coffee 

Dinner or LruncHeon 

White Clear Soup Meat Balls Steamed Rice 

Hot Biscuit Cottage Cheese 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Steamed Graham Bread 

Canned Squash Pie 



HOOD'S MILK 273 



April 25 



BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Roast Chicken Gravy Rice Balls 

Boiled Spinach 

Lemon Sherbet "Whipped Cream 

Tea 

Fried Bananas (Chafing Dish) 

Nut Sauce Baking Powder Biscuit 

Lemon Sherbet Whipped Cream 



April 26 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Coffee 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

I^uncKeon or Supper 

Squash Soup Croutons 

Spiced Cookies Sliced Bananas 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Chicken Gravy 

Baked Potatoes, in Half Shell 
Steamed Cottage Pudding Hard Sauce 



April 27 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Bananas 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

L-uncHeon or Stipper 

Macaroni with White Sauce 
Raised Buns Cottage Cheese 

Dinner 

Baked Haddock Fish Stuffing Hollandaise Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Prune Souffle 



274 DAILY LIVING 



April 28 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

Lrtii\cKeoi\ or Stopper 

Potato Soup Crisp Crackers 

Mocha Cake, Mocha Frosting 

Dinner 

Hashed Fish Boiled Spinach 

Bread and Butter Prune and Rhubarb Pie 



April 29 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Baked Potatoes 

Oven Broiled Bacon Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Stipper 

Spinach Cream Soup Stewed Prunes and Rhubarb 

Spice Cookies 

Dinner 

Meat Pie Mocha Cake Canned Fruit 



April 30 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Dried Apple Sauce 

Corn Cake Coffee 

Ltinclieon or Supper 

Emergency Soup Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Rice Pudding 

Dinner 

Cod Stuffed with Oysters Butter Gravy 

Baked Potatoes 

White Mousse Spice Cookies 



HOOD'S MILK 275 



April 1 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 

Fried Eggs and Bacon 

Prepare oven broiled bacon, refer to December 3. 
Break 4 of Hood's eggs and slip one at a time into the 
smoking hot fat, in a frying pan. Cook until brown 
underneath and serve with the bacon. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Turnip Cream Soup* Refer to November 12. 

Croutons* Refer to November 5. 

Coffee Jelly. Refer to November 2. . 

Lamb Cutlets 

Wipe lyi pounds lamb cut from the forequarter. 
Dip in crumbs, Qgg and crumbs, put in baking pan, dot 
over with Hood's butter and cook about y^ hour in a 
hot oven. 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Fried Pancakes 

Mix and sift i ^ cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder, % teaspoon salt and }( cup sugar. Add ^3 cup 
Hood's milk and i Qgg well beaten. Drop by spoonfuls 
into deep fat and fry. Drain on brown paper, serve with 

Caramel Syrup 

Caramelize % cup sugar, refer to caramel custards, 
February 27, add y^ cup hot water slowly and simmer 
5 minutes. 



276 DAILY LIVING 

April 2 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Rice Griddle Cakes* Refer to November 5. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Macaroni with Cheese. Refer to December 9. 

Stewed Prunes* Refer to December 4. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

Planked Fish 

Take the skin and bone from a 3 pound haddock, 
making 2 fillets. Brown in Hood's butter on one side, 
remove to plank, browned side down, and garnish with 
souffle potato roses. Cook about 1 5 minutes under the 
gas flame, or until the fish is dry and flakes apart. May 
be cooked in the range oven. Serve with 

HoIIandaise Sauce* Refer to March 4. 

Souffle Potato Roses 

Add the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs beaten stiff to 3 
hot riced potatoes, with salt, add 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter. Beat until light and shape as potato roses, refer 
to March 25. 

Welsh Cheese Cakes 

Put I of Hood's cottage cheeses . through the potato 
ricer, add }^ cup sugar, i tablespoon Hood's light cream, 
I tablespoon Hood's butter melted, the grated rind and 
juice of }i lemon, 2 of Hood's eggs beaten light. Fill 
into small tins lined with pastry and bake about 15 
minutes. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



HOOD'S MILK 277 



April 3 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toasts Refer to December 27. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Fish Bouillon 

Put the skin, bones and trimmings remaining from the 
planked fish in a saucepan, add Y^ onion, bit of bay leaf, 
2 cloves, ^ carrot sliced, cover with cold water and 
simmer i >^ hours, strain through cheese cloth placed 
over a strainer and season with salt. 

Rye Bread 

Scald 2 cups Hood's milk, add 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter, Yi cup brown sugar and i Y^ teaspoons salt. 
When lukewarm add i yeast cake dissolved in Y\ cup 
lukewarm water and 3 cups flour ; beat well, cover and 
let rise until light. Then add about 3 cups rye meal, 
enough to make a stiff dough ; knead, let rise until 
doubled in bulk, shape into 2 loaves, let rise again and 
bake about i hour in a moderate oven. 

Tripe in Batter 

Add Y\ cup cold water to i of Hood's eggs well 
beaten, and add gradually to Y^ cup flour, with a few 
grains salt; add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter melted. 
Cut I pound tripe in pieces for serving, wipe, season 
with salt, dip in batter and fry in Hood's butter until 
browned. 

Molasses Cookies* Refer to December 1 5 . 

Baked Kidney Beans* Refer to December 26. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Lemon Custard Pie* Refer to November 9. 



278 DAILY LIVING 

April 4 

Baked Beans Reheated* Refer to November i . 
Brown Bread Reheated* Refer to November i. 
Stewed Prunes* Refer to December 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Stuffed Roast Veal 

Order 6 pound leg of veal, boned. Wipe meat, sea- 
son with salt, stuff, refer to stuffing November 8, put 
in baking pan with 4 strips salt pork. Dredge with 
flour, and roast 3}^ hours, basting every 10 minutes, 
first with 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, melted in ^ cup 
hot water, then with fat in the pan. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Fruit Cream with Whipped Cream* 

Prepare vanilla ice cream, refer to November i, 
omitting vanilla and adding i cup strained peaches or 
other fruit. When frozen press the cream against the 
sides of the can, and turn in ^ cup Hood's medium 
cream, beaten until thick, sweetened and flavored. Pack 
and let stand 2 hours before serving. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Hot Chocolate 

Prepare chocolate, refer to children's parties, Februarys 
and serve hot. 

April 5 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Potato Cakes. Refer to November 2. 



HOOD'S MILK 279 



Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Baked Bean Salad. Refer to December 29. 

Cream Oil Dressing 

Add Yq. cup Hood's medium cream beaten to oil 
dressing, refer to March 29. 

Molasses Cookies* Prepared April 3. 

Tea* Refer to November i . 

Cold Roast Veal. Prepared April 4. 

Potato Puff* Refer to January 25. 

Boiled Spinach. Refer to P^ebruary 2. 

Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

Chocolate Cottage Pudding 

Cream 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add y^ cup sugar 
and the yolk of i of Hood's eggs. Mix and sift ^ cup 
flour with I y^ teaspoons baking powder, and add alter- 
nately with y^ cup Hood's milk to the first mixture. 
Beat well, and add i square melted chocolate, then add 
the white of the q^% beaten stiff. Bake about ^ hour 
in a deep pan. 

April 6 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 
Refer to November 3. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 



28o DAILY LIVING 

Cheese Cream Soup 

Scald I quart Hood's milk with i slice onion, then re- 
move onion. Melt 3 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 3 
tablespoons flour, and gradually the scalded milk. Just 
before serving add >^ cup Hood's full cream cheese 
grated and season with salt. 

Crisp Crackers^ Refer to December 23. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Veal Pot Pie 

Cut I y2 cups left over veal into small pieces and lay 
aside. Put the remainder into a casserole, or heavy 
earthen baking dish, add i onion sliced fine, and 3 raw 
potatoes cut in dice. Dredge with flour, season with 
salt, cover with cold water, and put in oven, cover the 
dish and cook about 3 hours in a moderate oven, 20 
minutes before serving time remove the cover, and drop 
dumpling mixture by spoonfuls onto the pie and bake. 

Baked Dumpling* Refer to December 2 1 . 

Baked Bananas* Refer to January 30. 

Molasses Cookies* Prepared April 3. 

April 7 

Shedded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 

String Bean Salad 

Drain and rinse i can small green string beans, season 
with salt and onion juice, arrange on lettuce leaves, and 
cover with Yt. recipe cream oil dressing, prepared April 6. 



HOOD'S MILK 281 



Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Use I cup entire wheat flour in place of i cup white 
flour, and proceed as for baking powder biscuit, refer 
to November 2. . , 

Dried Apple Sauce^ Refer to March 10. 

Molasses Cookies. Prepared April 3. 

Macaroni with Meat 

Prepare macaroni as for macaroni with cheese, omit- 
ting the cheese, refer to December 9. When ready to 
serve reheat with i Y^, cups left over veal. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 1 9. 

April 8 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 

Baked Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 

Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Potato Soup* Refer to January 16. 

French Toast 

Add % cup Hood's milk to i of Hood's eggs slightly 
beaten, with i tablespoon sugar and a few grains salt. 
Dip slices of stale bread in the mixture and fry in Hood's 
butter until well browned on both sides. Serve with 
jelly. 

Fish in Ramekins 

Prepare fish timbal mixture, refer to March ir, and 
cook in 8 buttered ramekins set in a dish of hot water 
in a moderate oven. 



282 DAILY LIVING 

Delmonico Potatoes* Refer to January 7. 
Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 
Maple Mousse* Refer to March 2 1 . 
Molasses Cookies* Prepared April 3. 

April 9 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Grapefruit Salad 

Prepare 2 grapefruit and drain, arrange the fruit on 
lettuce leaves, add 2 tablespoons powdered sugar to 
fruit juice and pour over the salad. 

Toasted Cheese Sandwiches 
Refer to December 3. 

Cocoa* Refer to December 13. 

Hot Cross Buns 

Pour I cup Hood's milk, scalded, over 3 tablespoons 
each sugar and Hood's butter and ^ teaspoon salt. 
When lukewarm add i of Hood's eggs well beaten, i 
yeast cake dissolved in % cup lukewarm water, and 3 % 
cups flour mixed with ^ teaspoon cinnamon and }^ cup 
currants. Beat well, let rise until doubled in bulk, 
shape into biscuit and cut 2 gashes on top of each one 
with the scissors, in the shape of a cross, let rise 
again and bake on an inverted pan in a moderate oven 
about 25 minutes. Before the baking has finished brush 



HOOD'S MILK 283 



over with ^ cup sugar cooked with 2 tablespoons water to 
a syrup. 

Baked Shad Roe 

Cook shad roe 10 minutes in boiling water to which 
has been added i teaspoon each salt and vinegar. 
Drain, put in buttered baking pan, cover with tomato 
sauce and bake about 25 minutes. Serve with remain- 
ing sauce poured over the roe on the platter. 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

Buttered Potatoes. Refer to January 19. 

Banana Pudding, Refer to March 3. 

Boiled Custard* Refer to March 3. 

April 10 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to January 13. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Broiled Cod Steak 

Butter a wire broiler, lay in i ^ pounds cod steak and 
broil over a clear fire about 12 minutes, turning fre- 
quently, or broil under the gas flame, turning once. 
Remove to platter, season with salt and spread with 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter. 

Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Grapefruit* Refer to January 3. 

Beans Baked with Tomato* Refer to January 16. 



284 DAILY LIVING 

Steamed Graham Breads Refer to January 2. 

Loaf Chocolate Cake 

Cream ^ cup Hood's butter, add i Y^, cups sugar 
gradually and the yolks of 5 of Hood's eggs, unbeaten ; 
then add 2 squares melted chocolate mixed with ^ cup 
hot water. Add ^ cup Hood's milk alternately with 
i^ cups flour mixed and sifted with 2>^ teaspoons 
baking powder, then add the whites of 3 of the eggs 
beaten stiff. Bake in a loaf in a moderate oven about 
50 minutes. Frost with 

Marshmallow Frosting 

Add 2 tablespoons hot water to ^ pound marsh- 
mallows cut in pieces, and melt over hot water, then add 
to boiled frosting, refer to January 8. 

April 11 

Eggs Poached in Cream 

Melt I y^ tablespoons Hood's butter, add ^ teaspoon 
salt and a few grains paprika, add y^, small onion sliced 
thin. When browned remove from the heat, add i Yi 
cups Hood's light cream and heat without boiling, then 
slip in 4 of Hood's eggs very carefully and cook until 
the white is set. Serve with 

Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2 

Grapefruit* Refer to January 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Roast Chicken* Refer to November 8. 

Stuffing* Refer to Nov^ember 8. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 



HOOD'S MILK 285 



Steamed Rice« Refer to November 4. 
Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 

Easter Pudding 

Prepare chocolate pudding, omitting the chocolate, 
and adding i teaspoon vanilla, refer to March 5, 
mould in egg cups. When ready to serve remove from 
the moulds and serve with 

Yellow Sauce 

Add }4 cup sugar to the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs. 
Just before serving pour over }4 cup Hood's milk 
scalded, add }^ teaspoon vanilla and a few grains salt. 

Chocolate Cake* Prepared April 10. 

April 12 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Rice Griddle Cakes* Refer to November 5. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Baked Beans Reheated* Refer to November i . 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2 

Chocolate Cake* Prepared April 10. 

Cold Roast Chicken* Prepared April 11. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 

Tartar Sauce 

Brown j{ cup Hood's butter and add to i tablespoon 
each vinegar and Worcestershire sauce mixed with j{ 
teaspoon salt. 



286 DAILY LIVING 

Creamed Parsnips 

Use parsnips in place of turnips, refer to creamed 
turnips, December i6. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Skin and cut into small pieces y^ pound rhubarb. 
Mix y^ cup sugar, 2)/^ tablespoons flour, and i egg. 
Add to the rhubarb, and bake between 2 crusts about 
45 minutes. 

April 13 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Refer to March 20. 
Corn Cake» Refer to December i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 

Refer to December 24. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Chocolate Cake* Prepared April 10. 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Skin and cut in small pieces ^ pound rhubarb. " Put 
in granite saucepan, add yz cup water, ^ cup sugar, 
and heat until sugar is dissolved, then put in oven, and 
cook slowly 2 hours, adding more water if necessary. 

Veal Cutlets 

Cut I pound veal steak into pieces for serving and 
prepare as lamb cutlets, refer to April i. 

Brown Sauce 

Brown 3 tablespoons Hood's butter with i slice onion, 
add 4 tablespoons flour and brown, then add i % cups 
hot water gradually. When thickened cook 5 minutes, 
then strain and season with salt. 



HOOD'S MILK 287 



Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 
French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Lettuce and Walnut Salad 

Shred y. head lettuce, add }i cup nut meats broken 
in pieces, and moisten with French dressing. 

April 14 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Potato Soup* Refer to January 16. • 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Baked Bananas* Refer to January 30. 

Chocolate Cake* Prepared April 10. 

Baked Creamed Shad Roe 

Parboil shad roe as in baked shad roe, refer to April 9. 
Cut in small pieces, and add to white sauce, refer to 
November 6. Season with salt and paprika, put in 
buttered baking dish, cover with y^ cup buttered cracker 
crumbs, and reheat in a hot oven. 

French Rolls 

Add I tablespoon Hood's butter, % teaspoon salt to 
I cup boiling water ; when lukewarm add i yeast cake 
dissolved in y^ cup lukewarm water, and 1 3^ cups flour, 
let rise until light, then add about i y^ cups more flour, 
knead, and when doubled in bulk cut in 24 pieces, shape 
as biscuits, then roll with the hands 2 inches long. 
Gash each roll 3 times with the scissors, let rise again, 
and bake about 1 5 minutes in a moderate oven. 



288 DAILY LIVING 

Pineapple Fritters 

Add y^ cup Hood's milk to the yolks of 2 of Hood's 
eggs or I whole ^gg^ and gradually stir into i cup of 
flour which has been sifted with i y^, teaspoons each 
sugar and baking powder and y^ teaspoon salt. Let 
stand a while, then dip into batter slices of pineapple 
which have been drained. Fry in deep fat and drain on 
brown paper. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

Refer to February 14. 

April 15 

Oat Cereal 

Refer to November 4. 

Dropped Eggs on Toast 

Add I teaspoon salt to i quart boiling water in a 
saucepan, then set where it will not boil. Break 4 of 
Hood's eggs and slip carefully one at a time into the 
water. Cook 5 or 6 minutes, until the white is set. 
Then take out with skimmer and arrange on slices of 
toasted bread. 

Coffee* Refer to Novemoer i. 

Potato soup* Refer to January 16. 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Reheated French Rolls* Prepared April 14, 

Delmonico Potatoes, Refer to January 7. 

Creole Steak 

Prepare i pound top of round steak as broiled steak, 
refer to January 21. Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, 



HOOD'S MILK 289 



add I slice onion cut fine and i cup thick part of canned 
tomato. Simmer until thick, then season with salt. When 
ready to serve pour over the steak. 

Floating Island 

Scald I ^ cups Hood's milk and pour over y^ cup 
sugar mixed with 2 of Hood's eggs. Cook in the double 
boiler until the mixture coats the spoon, then strain, add 
^ teaspoon vanilla and a few grains salt. Beat the 
whites of the eggs stiff, drop by spoonfuls onto the 
custard and brown in the oven. Serve cold. 

April 16 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish^ Refer to November 6. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
French Dressing. Refer to November 7. 

Pineapple Salad 

Shred ^ head lettuce, cut i cup canned pineapple in 
small pieces, drain and arrange on the lettuce. Pour 
over French dressing and garnish with 2 red canned 
peppers, cut in small pieces. 

Nut Souffle 

Use I cup nut meats broken in pieces in place of fish, 
refer to fish souffle, January 9. 

Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Refer to April 7. 



290 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Tapioca Pudding 

Mix yl cup minute tapioca, % cup sugar, 2 of Hood's 
eggs slightly beaten, few grains salt, ^ teaspoon vanilla 
and 2 cups Hood's milk. Put in baking dish and bake 
about I hour in a moderate oven. 

April 17 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Dried Beef 

Serve % package dried beef, arrange on a platter. 

Potato Salad* Refer to February 4. 

Boiled Cream Dressing* Refer to February 22. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Dried Apple Pie* Refer to March 6. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 

Sponge Pie 

Prepare small angel cakes, refer to March 17. Bake 
in 2 round cake tins about i 5 minutes, and when ready 
to serve fill with whipped cream, refer to November 4. 



HOOD'S MILK 291 



April 18 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Fricassee of Chicken* Refer to November 1 5 . 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding 

Prepare boiled custard, refer to March 3. While hot 
add 2 tablespoons granulated gelatin softened in % cup 
cold water, then strain. Put a layer of sponge drops in 
bottom of serving dish and cover with custard ; when 
set add another layer of sponge drops and repeat until 
the sponge drops and custard have been used. Chill 
before serving. 

Sponge Drops 

Beat the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs stiff, add yi cup 
granulated sugar and continue beating, then add the 
yolks of 3 of Hood's eggs beaten thick. Fold in ^3 cup 
flour and % teaspoon vanilla. Drop by teaspoons onto 
brown paper placed on an inverted pan and bake about 
8 minutes. 

Cheese and Jelly Sandwiches 

Butter 3 slices of bread, spread i slice with Hood's 
cottage cheese and another with jelly. Put the 3 slices 
together and cut in strips about i inch wide. Prepare 
the desired number. 

Cocoa* Refer to December 13. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 



292 DAILY LIVING 



April 19 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Rice Griddle Cakes* Refer to November 5. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

White Cream Soup* Refer to November 2. 

Croutons* Refer to November 5 . * 

Rhubarb Jelly- 
Add 2 tablespoons granulated gelatin softened in }{ 
cup cold water to rhubarb sauce, refer to April 13. 
Mould and chill. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Broiled Ham 

Cut I slice from ham before boiling. Put in frying 
pan, cover with cold water and heat slowly for 1 5 minutes. 
Then drain and pan broil until brown on both sides, 
turning constantly. 

Lettuce Salad with Boiled Dressing 

Shred % head lettuce and mix with % recipe boiled 
cream dressing, prepared April 17. 

April 20 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Toasted Brown Bread, Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November I . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 293 



Stuffed Red Peppers 

Drain and rinse 8 red canned peppers. Fill with 
creamed chicken, refer to February 8. Cover with ^ 
cup buttered cracker crumbs, put in baking dish and 

bake 15 minutes in a moderate oven. 

» 

Hot Rye Biscuit 

Shape rye biscuit, put in muffin pan, let rise, and bake 
about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Cold Rhubarb Pie 
Refer to April 12. 

Cold Boiled Ham 

Cover ham with cold water, bring to the boiling point, 
boil 5 minutes, then simmer, allowing 25 minutes to the 
pound. Remove from the water, take off the skin, and 
cover with fine stale bread crumbs. Bake % hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce. Refer to March i . 
Chocolate Bread Pudding. Refer to December 18. 

April 21 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Dried Beef. Refer to March 20. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
Macaroni with Cheese. Refer to December 9. 
Rye Bread and Butter. Prepared April 20. 
Hot Gingerbread. Refer to November 3. 



294 DAILY LIVING 

Cold Ham 

Prepared April 20. 

German Potato Salad 

Cook 5 potatoes with skin left on, and peel while hot. 
Slice in }^ inch slices, season with salt. Mix 2 table- 
spoons vinegar, ^ cup Hood's butter, melted, and few 
drops onion juice, blend with the potatoes and reheat 
in the oven, serving hot. 

Banana Fritters* Refer to November 6. 

Currant Jelly Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

April 22 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Ham Omelet 

Use chopped ham in place of fish and refer to fish 
omelet, March 18. 

Ginger Cakes* Prepared April 22. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Fricassee of Veal 

Cut 2 pounds knuckle veal into 2 inch pieces, 
brown in Hood's butter with ^ onion sliced fine, put 
in kettle with the bone; add i quart cold water, bring 
to the boil, boil 5 minutes, then simmer until the meat 
is tender. Remove the bone and i pint of the stock, 
season with salt, and thicken the remaining pint of stock 
with % cup flour diluted with cold water to pour. 



HOOD'S MILK 295 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Banbury Tarts 

Cut in small pieces y^ cup raisins, add ^ cup sugar, 
I of Hood's ^gg yolks slightly beaten, y^ cracker finely 
rolled, and the grated rind and juice of yi lemon, bake 
as mince turnovers, refer to January 9. 

April 23 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Dried Apple Sauce* Refer to March 10. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Popovers 

Beat I of Hood's eggs until thick to the bottom of the 
bowl, add }{ teaspoon salt, and alternately 34^ at a time 
Yi cup each pastry flour and Hood's milk. Beat well 
with the ^gg beater. Put }{ teaspoon butter into each 
cup, well heated, fill yi with the mixture and bake about 
30 minutes in a hot oven. 

Baked Eggs 

Put I tablespoon each Hood's light cream and fine 
fresh bread crumbs into each of 4 ramekins, then i of 
Hood's eggs in each dish. Season with salt and pap- 
rika, and cover each ^gg with i tablespoon more crumbs. 
Bake about 6 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange* Refer to February 10. 

Baked Fillets Halibut* Refer to November 25. 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 



296 DAILY LIVING 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Chop fine 2 cups left over potatoes and i small onion. 
Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter in a frying pan, turn 
in the potatoes, moisten with Hood's milk, and cook 
very slowly 20 minutes, then brown underneath. Fold 
and turn onto a platter. 

Indian Pudding 

Refer to November 5 . 

April 24 

Shredded Wheat with Creamed Codfish 

Cut 4 shredded wheat biscuits in halves lengthwise, 
dip in Hood's milk, then pour over creamed codfish, 
refer to November 6. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i . 

White Clear Soup 

Season with salt the i pint of left over veal stock, and 
clear, refer to tomato and chicken bouillon, Novem- 
ber 26. 

Meat Balls* Refer to December 22. 

Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 

Canned Squash Pie 

Use canned squash in place of boiled squash, and pro- 
ceed as for squash pie, refer to November 14. 



HOOD'S MILK 297 



April 25 

Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November i . 

Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Roast Chicken* Refer to November 8. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Rice Balls* Refer to February 7. 

Boiled Spinach* Refer to February 2. 

Lemon Sherbet 

Use the juice of 3 lemons in place of orange juice, 
and prepare as orange sherbet, refer to children's 
parties, February. 

Whipped Cream 

Refer to November 4. 

Fried Bananas (chafing dish) 

Cut 4 bananas in halves lengthwise ; melt i table- 
spoon Hood's butter, in blazer of chafing dish, without 
using the hot water pan. Brown the bananas on both 
sides, and serve with 

Nut Sauce 

Add Yz cup nut meats broken in small pieces to cur- 
rai\t jelly sauce, refer to November 6. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 
Refer to November 2. 



298 DAILY LIVING 

April 26 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November I. 
Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Squash Soup* Refer to December 28. 
Croutons* Refer to November 5 . 

Spice Cookies 

Omit fruit, and proceed as for hermit cookies, refer 
to March 13. 

Cold Roast Chicken* Prepared April 25. 

Gravy. Prepared April 25. 

Baked Potatoes in half Shell 

Bake 4 large potatoes, cut in halves lengthwise, scoop 
out the inside, mash, add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, 
Hood's milk to moisten, and season to taste. Beat 
until light, refill skin? and bake about 6 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

Steamed Cottage Pudding 

Omit chocolate and add % cup more flour to choco- 
late cottage pudding, refer to April 5. Steam 1% 
hours, serve with 

Hard Sauce 

Refer to November 4. 



HOOD'S MILK 299 



April 27 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Macaroni with White Sauce 

Omit cheese from macaroni and cheese, refer to 
December 9, and reheat in white sauce, refer to Novem- 
ber 6. 

Raised Buns 

Before kneading the bread divide into thirds, and to 
Yz add % cup sugar, % cup currants, and i of Hood's 
eggs, sHghtly beaten, then proceed as for hot cross 
buns, refer to April 9. 

Baked Haddock 

Prepare and bake haddock as for haddock with onion 
dressing, refer to November 3, after stuffing with 

Fish Stuffing 

Mix I cup soft bread crumbs, 3 tablespoons Hood's 
butter, melted in % cup hot water, % teaspoon each 
salt and poultry seasoning. 

HoIIandaise Sauce* Refer to March 4. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Prune Souffle* Refer to December 29. 

April 28 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs. Refer to December 2. 



300 DAILY LIVING 

Rye Muffins^ Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Potato Soup* Refer to January 16. 
Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 
Mocha Cakes 

Beat the yolks of 4 of Hood's eggs until thick and 
lemon colored, add i cup sugar gradually and continue 
beating, then add ^ cup cold water and beat welL 
Mix and sift 2 teaspoons baking powder with 3 table- 
spoons cornstarch and i cup flour, and stir into the 
first mixture ; then add the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff with y^ teaspoon salt. Add }^ teaspoon vanilla, 
and bake about 15 minutes in 4 round cake tins. When 
cold cut in rounds, using the biscuit cutter, or serve 
as 2 cakes put together, having 2 layers each, with 
mocha frosting between and on top of cake. 

Mocha Frosting 

Cream ^ cup Hood's butter washed, add 2 table- 
spoons cocoa, % cup cold coffee, and confectioner's 
sugar to make of a consistency to spread. 

Hashed Fish* Refer to November 14. 

Boiled Spinach* Refer to February 2. 

Prune and Rhubarb Pie 

Soak Yz pound cleaned prunes in cold water to cover, 
add I pound rhubarb, peeled and cut in small pieces, 
cover with boiling water, and cook very slowly until the 
prunes are soft. Sweeten to taste the last half hour of 
cooking. Bake about jA the sauce between 2 crusts in 
a deep pie plate. 



HOOD'S MILK 301 



April 29 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Baked Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 
Oven Broiled Bacon. Refer to December 3. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Spinach Cream Soup 

Use I cup left over cooked spinach in place of potato 
and proceed as for potato soup, refer to January 1 6. 

Stewed Prunes and Rhubarb 

Prepared April 28. 

Spice Cookies. Prepared April 26. 
Meat Pie. Refer to November 14. 
Mocha Cake. Prepared April 28. 

April 30 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit. Refer to March 20. 
Dried Apple Sauce. Refer to March 10. 
Corn Cake. Refer to December i . 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
Emergency Soup. Refer to November 5. 

Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Refer to April 7. 

Rice Pudding 

Refer to December 14. 



li 



302 DAILY LIVING 

Cod Stuffed with Oysters 

Remove the skin and bone from i pound cod steak, 
making 2 fillets. Season with salt, put i fillet in pan 
on strips of salt pork, lay on the oyster stuffing, using 
^ pint oysters, then lay on the stuffing the other fillet 
of fish. Bake about ^ hour in a moderate oven, bast- 
ing with the fat in the pan. 

Butter Gravy^ Refer to November 3. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

White Mousse 

Beat I cup Hood's medium cream until thick, sweeten 
to taste, add i ^ teaspoons vanilla. Pack in equal meas- 
ures ice and salt and let stand 2 hours. 

Spice Cookies 
Prepared April 26. 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

"Do not try to keep milk until the next morning that has been 
taken from the ice box several times during the day and allowed 
to get warm. Such milk should be set aside in a cold place and 
kept undisturbed until wanted." 

State Boar'd of Agriculture^ Nature Leaflet No. 40. 



HOOD'S MILK 



303 



Cost of I^iving for April 

April 1-8 April 8^15 



13 quarts milk $1 

2^ lbs. butter 

2 cottage cheeses 

y^ lb. full cream cheese 

9 half pint jars light cream. . 

1 jar medium cream 

2 doz. eggs 

Shredded wheat '. 

}l lb. bacon 

Coffee 

Sugar 

Flour 

Potatoes 

Salt and spices 

2 yeast cakes 

Gelatin 

Vegetables 

i^ lbs. forequarter lamb. . . 

Tomato 

Rice 

Lard 

Cereal 

Maple syrup 

Macaroni 

1 lb. prunes 

Baking powder 

Graham flour 

3 lbs. haddock 

2 lemons 

Rye and Indian- meal 

I lb. tripe 

Molasses and vinegar 

I qt. beans 

Chili sauce 

6 lbs. veal, 14 cts 

Peaches 

Ice and salt 

Chocolate 

Oil 

Tea 

yi pk. spinach 

Lettuce and crackers 

Bananas 

Can string beans 

y^ lb. dried apples ..... ... 



17 
,98 
,10 
,11 

.63 
.10 
.70 
.08 

.04 
.28 
.18 
.20 
.10 
.02 
.04 
.04 
.05 
.18 

•03 
•03 
.08 

.05 
.05 
.06 
.12 

•05 
.01 
.24 
.04 
.08 
.12 

■05 
,10 

.04 

.84 
.15 
.05 
.08 

.05 
.02 

•13 
.18 

.14 

.18 
.04 



Total for week $8.01 



13 qts. milk %! 

zyi lbs. butter 

Cottage cheese 

^ lb. cheese, full cream. . . , 

Jar medium cream 

8 half pt. jars light cream . . . • 

2 doz. eggs 

Coffee and flour 

Sugar 

Baking powder 

Spices and salt 

Potatoes and cereal 

X lb. bacon 

Crackers 

Jelly 

1 lb. halibut 

Maple syrup 

Codfish 

6 grapefruit 

4 yeast cakes 

Cocoa 

2 shad roe 

Tomatoes 

I % lbs. cod steak 

Gelatin 

Chocolate 

X lb. marshmallows 

4 lbs. chicken 

Lettuce 

Cornstarch 

Rice 

Canned fruit 

I lb. rhubarb 

Seasonings 

Vegetables 

Bananas 

4 shredded wheat 

Oil 

Vinegar 

I lb. veal steak . 

Walnuts 

Molasses 

Beans and pork 

Meal 

Pineapple 



•17 
.98 

•05 
.11 
.10 

•56 
.70 
,48 
.18 

.03 
.02 
.12 

.04 
.05 

•05 
.25 
.10 
.02 

•30 
.08 
.02 

•50 

•03 
.19 
.02 
•05 

•05 

.72 

.08 
.01 

•03 
.10 
.12 

.02 

•03 
.20 
.04 
.05 
.02 
■30 
•05 
.01 
.12 
.04 
•05 



Total for week 58.24 



304 



DAILY LIVING 



April 15=22 

13 qts. milk $i-i7 

2]4 lbs. butter 98 

8 half pt. jars light cream. . . .56 
2 doz. eggs 70 

1 half pt. jar medium cream .10 

2 cottage cheeses 10 

% lb. cheese, full cream 06 

1 lb. top of round 25 

Cereal 08 

Crackers 10 

Potatoes 10 

Tomatoes , .02 

Coffee 28 

Flour 20 

Baking powder 05 

Sugar 18 

Spices and salt 02 

Canned fruit 15 

Vanilla 03 

Codfish 02 

Oil 05 

Lettuce 08 

Nuts 10 

Tapioca 01 

Dried beef 12 

y^ lb. dried apples 04 

Lard 05 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Beans 08 

Rye meal 04 

Graham flour 02 

Pork 04 

Molasses 05 

Vinegar 01 

Jelly 10 

5 lb. fowl 75 

Rice 03 

Gelatin 02 

Maple syrup 05 

1 lb. rhubarb 12 

5 lbs. ham 75 

Can red peppers 15 

Spaghetti 03 

Chocolate 03 

Macaroni 03 

2 bananas .04 

Total for week ^7.98 



April 22= 30 

16 quarts milk ^1.44 

3^ lbs. butter 1.37 

2 doz. eggs 70 

ID jars light cream 70 

2 jars medium cream 20 

2 cottage cheeses 10 

2 lbs. knuckle veal 24 

Vegetables .... 05 

Shredded wheat 12 

16 bananas 25 

4 lemons 08 

Coffee and flour 60 

Sugar 24 

Spices and salt 02 

Baking powder 05 

Indian meal 02 

Graham flour 03 

y^ lb. dried apples 08 

Currants and potatoes 11 

Irish moss 01 

Vanilla 03 

Lard 03 

I lb. halibut 20 

Codfish 02 

Beans and pork 16 

1 pk. spinach 25 

2 lbs. lower round 30 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Can squash 12 

4 lbs. chicken 72 

Nuts 03 

Tea 02 

Chocolate 05 

Ice and salt 08 

Rice 03 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

I lb. prunes 12 

Macaroni 03 

Crackers 08 

Rhubarb 12 

Canned fruit 10 

I lb. cod steak 15 

j4. pt. oysters 10 

% lb. bacon 04 

Molasses 02 

Total for week ^950 

Total for month ^33-73 



HOOD'S MILK 



305 



I^o^rering tKe Cost 



April 1-8 

7 half pt. jars light cream. . .^0.49 

Cottage cheese 05 

Medium cream 10 

Coffee 28 

Shredded wheat, 8 cts., use 

cereal, 2 cts 06 

Maple syrup 05 

Chili sauce 04 

Spinach 13 

String beans, 18 cts., use 

potatoes, 2 cts 16 



$1-3^ 



April 8-15 

7 jars light cream j^o.49 

Medium cream 10 

Coffee 28 

Cottage cheese 05 

Jelly 05 

Grapefruit 30 

Marshmallows 05 

Bacon 04 

I lb. veal, 30 cts,, use Eng- 
lish beef soup, 8 cts 22 

^1.58 



Aprfl 15-22 

7 jars light cream ^0.49 

Coffee 28 

Cottage cheese 05 

Canned fruit 10 

Jelly 10 

Maple syrup 05 

4 lbs. forequarter lamb, 40 

cts., for ham, 75 cts 35 



.1.42 



April 22-30 

10 jars light cream $0.70 

Coffee 35 

Oysters 10 

Canned fruit 10 

Bacon 04 

Chocolate 05 

2 jars medium cream 20 

Ice and salt 03 

Use wheat cereal, 4 cts., for 

shredded wheat, 12 cts. .08 
I j^ lbs. forequarter lamb, 15 

cts., for knuckle veal, 

24 cts 09 

English beef soup for meat 

pie 10 

Total for month ^6.20 



3o6 DAILY LIVING 

Individual Cooking for the 
Convalescent 

Farina Soup 

Heat I cup chicken stock to boiling point, add i 
tablespoon farina and boil 5 minutes. Then add ^ 
cup Hood's milk scalded, % cup Hood's light cream 
and season. 

Hygienic Soup 

Heat I cup chicken stock to boiling point, add i 
tablespoon oatmeal and boil 1 5 minutes, add ^ cup 
Hood's milk, and thicken with 2 teaspoons Hood's 
butter and flour cooked together. Strain and season. 

Grilled Oysters 

Wash and pick over ^ pint oysters, put in small 
omelet pan and as fast as liquor flows remove with a 
spoon and continue until oysters are plump and edges 
begin to curl. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, add i 
tablespoon Hood's butter and pour over pieces of toast. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Fish a la Creme 

Scald % cup Hood's milk with sprig of parsley and 
bit of bay leaf. Remove seasoning and use in making 
white sauce with ^ tablespoon each Hood's butter and 
flour. Butter serving dish and cover with 3 tablespoons 
cold flaked fish, cover with ^ of sauce, repeat, and 
cover top with 2 tablespoons buttered crumbs. 

Moulded Fish 

Chop fine ^ pound halibut, add 3 tablespoons 
Hood's milk, ^ of i of Hood's Qgg yolks, % teaspoon 
salt, % teaspoon cornstarch, i ^ tablespoons Hood's 



HOOD'S MILK 307 

thick cream beaten stiff. Turn into a buttered mould 
and cook in pan of hot water until firm. 

Cream Sauce 

Cook together ^ tablespoon each Hood's butter and 
flour, add % cup Hood's thick cream and 2 table- 
spoons Hood's milk. Season. 

Dainty Omelet 

Beat yolk of i of Hood's eggs until thick and lemon 
colored, add a few grains salt and i tablespoon Hood's 
milk, turn into a buttered omelet pan. When set 
spread over stiffly beaten white of Qgg. When brown 
underneath put in oven and finish cooking, then fold 
and turn. 

Zwieback 

Dissolve I yeast cake in % cup Hood's milk, add 
i^ teaspoon salt and % cup flour, then let rise until 
very light, add 2 tablespoons each sugar and Hood's 
butter melted, i of Hood's eggs and the yolk of another 
and flour enough to handle. Shape as finger rolls. 
Place close together on buttered sheet, let rise and 
bake 20 minutes in hot ovefi. When cold slice and 
brown evenly in oven. 

Wheat Crisps 

Cream ^ cup Hood's butter, add 2 tablespoons 
sugar gradually, % cup Hood's milk, ^ cup wheat prep- 
aration mixed with yi teaspoon salt and flour enough to 
roll. Shape and bake in slow oven until delicately 
browned. 

Cocoa Jelly 

Dissolve I y^ teaspoons granulated gelatin soaked in 
I teaspoon cold water, in cocoa made of i ^ teaspoons 



3o8 DAILY LIVING 

each cocoa and sugar, and y^ cup boiling water. Strain, 
mould, and chill. Serve with sugar and Hood's light 
cream. 

Lemon Ice 

Boil ^ cup sugar and yi cup water together 3 mm- 
utes, cool, add the juice of i lemon, put in heavy glass 
and set in pan. Pack with 3 parts ice and i part 
coarse fine salt. As mixture begins to thicken stir oc- 
casionally and beat with a silver knife 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Mix ^ cup Hood's light cream, i tablespoon sugar, 
y^ teaspoon vanilla and few grains salt. Freeze as 
lemon ice. 



Month of May 



erving 



Laying the Tabic for Breakfasts Dust the 
table and over the top lay a heavy cloth for the silence 
cloth. Over this spread the tablecloth, having the fold 
of the cloth in the centre of the table and at equal 
distance from the ends. In the centre of the table 
could be placed a growing plant or cut flowers. The 
plate of breakfast size and the silver are placed }4 inch 
from the edge of the table. The decorations of the plate 
should face the sitter at the table. At the right of the 
plate and near it place a knife, the cutting edge toward 
the plate ; at the right of the knife lay a dessert spoon 
for the cereal ; at the left of the plate lay a fork with 
the tines upward. At the point of the knife place a 
tumbler of water ; at the point or left of the fork place 
a small plate of bread and butter, and across this lay a 
small knife or spreader. At the left of the fork lay 
a napkin having 2 open edges on the top of the napkin. 
Above the plate place a fruit spoon ; above this a fruit 
napkin with a finger bowl beside it, ^ filled with tepid 
water. 

Laying the Table for Dinner* The service plate 
to hold the soup plate replaces the breakfast plate, and 
is removed with the soup plate for the dinner plate. 
The finger bowl and bread and butter plate are not 
placed on the table. The silver is of dinner size ; the 
soup spoon takes the place of the cereal spoon at the 
right of the knife. Place the forks and spoons necessary 
for the dinner at the left of the plate, excepting the 
dessert spoon and fork, which are placed as needed. 

311 



HOOD'S MILK 313 



12. Never remove more than 2 plates at a time, and 
avoid the piUng of silver. 

13. Vegetables without dressing ^or sauce may be 
served on the dinner plate with the principal dish. 

14. Always keep the tumbler of water tilled. 



314 



DAILY LIVING 



May I 



BreskKfast 

Oat Cereal 

Toasted Bread 



Bananas 



Coffee 



Dinner or LtincKeoni 

Fried Clams Hot Biscuit 

Spice Cookies Cottage Cheese 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans with Olive Oil Brown Bread 

Cocoanut Custard Pie 



May 2 



BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Parker House Corn Gems 

Coffee 

Dinner 



Roast Lamb Gravy 

Beet Greens Banana 

Tea 

Brown Bread Crackers 


Roast Potatoes 
Ice Cream 

Hood's Milk 


May 3 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal 

Toasted Brown Bread 


Reheated Beans 
Coffee 



L-xincKeon or Stxpper 

Beet Green Salad Savory French Dressing 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Banana Pudding Boiled Custard 



Curry of Lamb 



Dinner 

Rice Border 



Lemon Pie 



HOOD'S MILK 315 



May 4 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Rice Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

I^uncKeon or Supper 

Corn Custard Hot Biscuit 

Lettuce and Red Pepper Salad 

Dinner 

Minced Lamb on Toast Steamed Graham Pudding 

Custard Sauce 



May 5 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Potato Soup Crisp Crackers 

Butter Cake Confectioner's Frosting 

Dinner 

Casserole of Stuffed Veal Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Parsnips 
Coffee Jelly Boiled Custard 



May 6 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Corn Oysters Maple Syrup 

Bread and Butter 
Cake Stewed Rhubarb 

Dinner 

Clam Stew (Chafing Dish) 
Red Peppers with Creole Rice Toasted Bread 



3i6 



DAILY LIVING 



May 7 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

L'tmcHeoii or Stipper 

Creamed Lima Beans Toasted Bread 

Cake Canned Fruit 

Dinner 

Shad Roe Croquettes French Fried Potatoes 

Rhubarb Pie 



May 8 



Wheat Cereal 



BreaKfast 

Corn Muffins 



Coffee 



Dinner or LrtincHeon 

Baked Shad Buttered Potatoes 

Onion and Lettuce Salad Hot Biscuit 



Baked Beans 



Dinner or Stipper 

Steamed Graham Bread 



Sponge Cake 



May 9 



BreaKfast 



Fish Cakes with Dropped Eggs 
Brown Bread Coffee 

Dinner 
Fowl Southern Style Spoon Corn Bread 

Cottage Cheese and Currant Jelly Salad 
Milk Sherbet 



Milk Sherbet 



Tea 



Sponge Cake 



HOOD'S MILK 317 



May 10 



BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Reheated Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

LuncHeon or Stxpper 

Moulded Rice Timbals Sponge Cake Canned Fruit 

Dinner 

Chicken Stew with Peas and Dumplings 
Buttermilk Doughnuts Cheese 



May U 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Rice Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Spanish Beans Parker House Rolls Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Veal Loaf Mashed Potatoes Rhubarb Pie 



May 12 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes 

Corn Cake Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Cream of Pea Soup Reheated Parker House Rolls 

Stewed Rhubarb Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Reheated Veal Loaf French Fried Potatoes 

Tapioca Cream 



3i8 DAILY LIVING 



May \3 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

L'tincHeon or Stipper 

Omelet White Sauce Toasted Bread 

Dried Apple Sauce Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Fish Chowder Pickles Chocolate Mousse 



May H 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread 

Creamed Codfish Coffee 

LuncHeon or Stipper 

Potato Soup Crisp Crackers 

Dried Apple Pie 

Dinner 

Fish Salad Boiled Dressing 

Baking Powder Biscuit 
Cottage Pudding Custard Sauce 



May 15 

BreaRfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Bananas Coffee 

Dinner or LtincKeon 

Clam Fritters Hot Biscuit Egg Salad 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Butter Cake Maple Sugar Frosting 



HOOD'S MILK 



319 



May 16 



BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Bananas Coffee 

Dinner 

Stewed Fowl Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Spinach Strawberry Short Cake 

Tea 

Cottage Cheese and Parsley Sandwiches 
Hood's Milk 



May \7 



Oat Cereal 



Broiled Bacon 



BreaKfast 

Fried Potato Cakes 

Coffee 



I^tizicHeon or Stipper 

Baked Beans Reheated ' Toasted Brown Bread 

Bermuda Onions with Syrup 

Sliced Bananas Cake 

Dinner 

Individual Chicken Pies Potato Balls 

Dates with Whipped Cream 



May 18 



Cereal with Dates 



BreaKfast 

Coffee 



Rye Muffins 

L>t].ncHeon or Stipper 

Beef Broth with Macaroni 

Cake Canned Fruit 

Dinner 

Cold Spiced Beef Mashed Potatoes 

Dandelion Greens Rhubarb Pie 



320 DAILY LIVING 

May 19 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

Ltii\cHeoi\ or Stipper 

Tomato Soup with Stock Cheese Croutons 

Coffee Souffle 

Dinner 

Cold Spiced Beef Fried Potato Cakes 

Dandelion Salad Tapioca Cream 



May 20 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Dried Beef Coffee 

Ltindieon or Supper 

Creamy Welch Rarebit Stewed Rhubarb 

Tea Muffins 

Dinner 

Planked Shad Potato Roses 

Lettuce and Onion Salad 

Steamed Fruit Pudding Custard Sauce 



May 2t 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Corn Cake Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Stipper 

Potato Soup Crisp Crackers 

Popovers with Maple Syrup 

Dinner 

Broiled Shad Roe Tomato Sauce 

French Fried Potato Balls 
Dressed Lettuce Rice Pudding 



HOOD'S MILK 321 



May 22 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Bananas Coffee 

Dinner or I^tincKeon 

Broiled Veal Steak Hot Biscuit Cream Puffs 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Steamed Graham Bread 

Chocolate Jumbles 



May 23 

BreaKfast 

Creamed Beef Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

Dinner 

Roast Leg of Veal Mashed Potatoes 

Gravy 
Lettuce and Green Pepper Salad Strawberry Ice Cream 

Tea 

Ice Cream Jumbles 



May 24 



BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Toasted Brown Bread 

Reheated Beans Coffee 

I^txncHeon or Supper 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese Baked Bananas 

Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Veal Onion Sauce 

Fried Potato Cakes Indian Pudding 



322 DAILY LIVING 

May 25 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Spanish Beans Hot Biscuit 

Chocolate Jumbles Cottage Cheese 

Dinner 

Minced Veal on Toast Canned Beet Salad 

Banana Shortcake Boiled Custard 



May 26 



BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Codfish Coffee 

LxincKeon or Supper 

Stuffed Green Peppers Bread and Butter 

"White Cake Marshmallow Filling 

Dinner 

Baked Shad Roe Tomato Sauce 

French Fried Potatoes Custard Pie 



May 27 



BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Broiled Bacon 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LfUncHeon or Supper 

Baked Creamed Eggs Baking Powder Biscuit 

White Cake Cocoa 

Dinner 

Stuffed Shad Potatoes with Parsley Butter 

Coffee Jelly Boiled Custard 



HOOD'S MILK 323 



May 28 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal Corn Muffins 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato Coffee 

I^uncKeon or Supper 

Potato Soup with Cheese Imperial Sticks 

Rhubarb Sauce White Cake 

Dinner 

Fried Flounders Boiled Dressing with Oil 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Baked Tapioca Pudding 



May 29 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

Dinner or I^uncKeon 

Potato and Beet Salad Hot Biscuit 

Cottage Pudding Strawberry Sauce 

Dinner or Stipper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread Rhubarb Pie 



May 30 

BreaRfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Cold Boiled Tongue Delmonico Cream Potatoes 

Boiled Spinach Strawberry Whip 

Tea 

Hulled Corn Hood's Milk 



324 DAILY LIVING 

May 31 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Reheated Baked Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Supper 

Creamed Cheese Toasted Bread 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Short Cake 

Dinner 

Cold Boiled Tongue Creamed Macaroni 

Grapefruit Jelly White Cake 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

"Do not use preservatives for keeping milk. They are unsafe 
in spite of untrustworthy statements to the contrary. It is de- 
cidedly preferable to depend upon ice, cleanliness, and, in extreme 
cases, sterilization. " 

State Board of Agriculture^ A^atiire Leaflet No. ^g. 



HOOD'S MILK 325 



May 1 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee» Refer to November i. 

Fried Clams 

Drain clams, cut out the dark part from the soft part 
of the clams, and dry between towels. Season with salt, 
roll in corn meal and fry in deep fat, a few at a time. 
Drain on brown paper. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Spice Cookies* Prepared April 26. 

Beans with Olive Oil 

Use ^ cup oUve oil in place of salt pork in baked 
beans, refer to November 7. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Cocoanut Custard Pie 

Add yi cup cocoanut to custard for custard pie, refer 
to January 30. 

May 2 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Parker House Corn Gems 

Cream 3 tablespoons Hood's butter, add ys cup sugar 
and 3 of Hood's eggs well beaten, and i cup Hood's 
milk. Mix and sift i cup each flour and corn meal, 4 



326 DAILY LIVING 

teaspoons baking powder and )^ teaspoon salt. Add to 
first mixture and bake in buttered gem pans in a quick 
oven. Makes i dozen. 

Roast LamK Refer to November 22. 
Roast Potatoes*, Refer to November 22. 

Beet Greens 

Pick over beet greens very carefully and cut the root 
from the small beets, put in kettle with small amount 
cold water and cook until soft, season with salt and 
drain, add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter. 

Banana Ice Cream 

Rub 4 bananas through a strainer, add to vanilla ice 
cream before freezing, using ^ tablespoon vanilla, refer 
to November i. 

May 3 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November I. 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Beet Green Salad 

Mix remaining beet greens with French dressing and 
arrange on lettuce leaves. 

Savory French Dressing. Refer to March 18. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

Banana Pudding* Refer to March 3. 

Boiled Custard* Refer to March 3. 



HOOD'S MILK 327 



Curry of Lamb 

Make a gravy, using lamb fat, refer to November 8, 
season with salt and curry powder, and reheat in the 
sauce cold roast lamb cut in small pieces. Serve in a 

Rice Border 

Prepare stearqed rice, refer to November 4, add 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter, and use a part for forming a 
border around the platter. 

Lemon Pie^ Refer to March 10. 

May 4 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Rice Griddle Cakes* Refer to November 5 . 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Corn Custard 

Mix ^ can corn, ^ teaspoon salt, 3 of Hood's eggs 
slightly beaten and i pint Hood's milk. Bake in a 
moderate oven until firm to the centre. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Lettuce and Red Pepper Salad 

Shred y^ head lettuce and cut in strips 4 red canned 
peppers which have been drained and rinsed. Mix to- 
gether and pour over 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Minced Lamb on Toast 

Chop the remaining lamb fine. Put the bone in a 
kettle, add a pint of cold water and simmer i hour. Use 
the stock for moistening the lamb. Add 2 tablespoons 



328 DAILY LIVING 

Hood's butter and season with salt. Serve on toasted 
bread. 

Steamed Graham Puddings Refer to February 23. 

Custard Sauce. Refer to November 2. 

May 5 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs. Refer to December 2. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Potato Soup. Refer to January 16. 

Crisp Crackers. Refer to December 23. 

Butter Cake. Refer to November 1 1 . 

Confectioner's Frosting 

Beat the white of i of Hood's eggs stiff, add 2 table- 
spoons Hood's milk, % teaspoon vanilla, ^ cup confec- 
tioner's sugar, beat well and add enough more sugar 
to make it stiff enough to spread. 

Casserole of Stuffed Veal 

Order i pound veal steak cut ^ inch thick, and cut in 
2 inch strips. Mix 2 tablespoons Hood's butter melted, 
% cup rolled cracker crumbs, season with salt and onion 
juice. Spread the lower half of each piece of veal with 
the stuffing, fold the upper half over and fasten with a 
toothpick. Put in frying pan and brown on both sides. 
Remove to casserole, or heavy baking dish. Make a 
brown sauce, using the fat in the pan, having 3 table- 
spoons, adding 3 tablespoons flour, salt and i % cups 
hot water. Pour over the veal and cook in the oven 
about I % hours. 



HOOD'S MILK 329 



Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i . 
Creamed Parsnips* Refer to April 12. 
Coffee Jelly* Refer to November 2. 
Boiled Custard* Prepared May 3. 

May 6 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Corn Oysters 

Mix ^ can corn, i of Hood's eggs, slightly beaten, 
}i cup flour, ^ teaspoon salt, and few grains paprika, 
drop by teaspoons on a hot well greased griddle, and 
cook until brown on both sides. Serve with maple 
syrup. 

Cake* Prepared May 5. 

Stewed Rhubarb* Refer to April 1 3 . 

Clam Stew 

Pick over i pint clams, and cut the dark part from 
the soft part of the clams, add enough water to the 
clam liquor to make 2 cups, put in the chafing dish 
with the clams and cook slowly until the clams are soft. 
Dilute 3 tablespoons flour with cold water to pour, add to 
the stew, and when thickened add ^ cup Hood's milk 
and 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, season with salt, and 
serve with toasted bread, refer to November i . 

Red Peppers with Creole Rice 

Prepare peppers as stuffed red peppers, refer to April 
20, and fill with ^ the recipe of creole rice, refer to 
January 29. Bake 15 minutes in a moderate oven. 



330 DAILY LIVING 

May 7 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish^ Refer to November 6. 
Rye Muffins. Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Creamed Lima Beans 

Cook beans as for stewed lima beans, refer to Decem- 
ber 30, and add white sauce, refer to November 6. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Cake* Prepared May 5. 

Shad Roe Croquettes 

Parboil shad roe as for baked shad roe, refer to April 
9, cut in small pieces, and add to white sauce prepared 
as for lamb croquettes, refer to January 12, season with 
salt and onion juice, and proceed as for lamb croquettes. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 

Rhubarb Pie* Refer to April 12. 

May 8 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Corn Muffins* Refer to December 16. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Baked Shad 

Order the backbone of the shad removed, put in 
baking pan on strips of wet cheese cloth, skin side down, 
season with salt, dot over with 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter, and bake about 25 minutes in a hot oven. 



HOOD'S MILK 331 



Buttered Potatoes* Refer to January 19. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Onion and Lettuce Salad 

Cut 2 Bermuda onions in very small bits, shred ^ 
head lettuce, and mix with the onions, season with salt, 
and pour over French dressing, refer to November 7. . 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 

Sponge Cake 

Bake the cake as for mocha cake, refer to April 28, in 
a cake tin in a sheet about 30 minutes. 

May 9 

Fish Cakes with Dropped Eggs 

Prepare fish balls, refer to November 8, shape in 4 
flat round cakes and brown in pork fat. Serve with a 
dropped egg on top of each cake, refer to April 1 5 . 

Brown Bread* Refer to April 7. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Fowl Southern Style* Refer to November i . 

Spoon Corn Bread 

Stir }( cup corn meal into i cup boiling water and 
steam 20 minutes, add }4 teaspoon salt, i tablespoon 
Hood's butter, ys cup Hood's milk, i of Hood's eggs 
well beaten, and ^ cup corn meal sifted with i teaspoon 
baking powder. Bake 30 minutes in a buttered baking 
dish and serve from the dish in which it was cooked. 



332 DAILY LIVING 

Cream Cheese and Currant Jelly Salad 

Prepare as for cheese and jelly, refer to November 5, 
arrange on shredded lettuce, and pour over French 
dressing, refer to November 7. 

Milk Sherbets Refer to November 8. 

Sponge Cake* Prepared May 8. 

May 10 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Beans. Refer to November I. 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November I . 

Moulded Rice Timbals 

Prepare rice as for steamed rice, refer to November 4, 
pack into timbal moulds, and when cold turn out, scoop 
out the centres and fill with canned fruit. 

Sponge Cake* Prepared May 8. 

Chicken Stew with Peas 

Cut the left over chicken from the bones, add the left 
over stock and ^ can drained and rinsed peas, reheat, 
and thicken with 2 tablespoons flour diluted with cold 
water to pour, then season with salt. 

Dumplings* Refer to December 21. 

Buttermilk Doughnuts* Refer to February 6. 

May 11 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Rice Griddle Cakes* Refer to November 5. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 



HOOD'S MILK 333 



Spanish Beans 

Add I cup canned tomato, i green pepper, cut fine, 
y^ small onion, sliced fine, to the left over beans. Cook 
slowly Yz hour. Season with salt. 

Parker House Rolls 

Prepare as for luncheon rolls, refer to February 2. 
Shape Yz as rolls and bake the remainder as a loaf of 
bread. 

Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Prepared May lo. 

Veal Loaf 

Cut 2 pounds knuckle of veal from the bone, put 
through the meat chopper and use in place of beef, refer 
to cannelon of beef, November 4. 

Mashed Potatoes^ Refer to November I . 

Rhubarb Pie^ Refer to April 1 2. 

May 12 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Cream of Pea Soup. Refer to February 25. 

Reheated Parker House Rolls 

Refer to baking powder biscuit, November 12. 

Stewed Rhubarb. Refer to April 13. 
Buttermilk Doughnuts* Prepared May 10. 



334 DAILY LIVING 

Reheated Veal Loaf 

Put the left over veal loaf in the baking pan and re- 
heat about 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

French Fried Potatoes^ Refer to January 5. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19. 

May 13 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Rye Muffins. Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Omelet* Refer to December 5. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Dried Apple Sauce* Refer to March 10. 
Buttermilk Doughnuts* Prepared May 10. 
Fish Chowder* Refer to December 4. 

Chocolate Mousse 

Prepare chocolate charlotte, refer to February 15, 
omitting % of the gelatin, turn into a mould, pack in 
equal measures ice and salt and let stand 3 hours. 

May 14 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 335 



Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Potato Soup* Refer to January 1 6. 
Crisp Crackers. Refer to December 23. 
Dried Apple Pie* Refer to March 6. 

Fish Salad 

Arrange the left over fish on lettuce leaves, season 
with salt, and pour over a boiled dressing. 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. Refer to November 2. 

Cottage Pudding 

Prepare steamed cottage pudding, refer to April 26, 
and bake Yz hour in a deep pan in a moderate oven. 

Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

May 15 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Coffee^ Refer to November i . 

Clam Fritters 

Beat 2 of Hood's eggs until light, add yi cup Hood's 
milk and i Yi cups flour, sifted with 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Chop i pint clams, add ^ teaspoon salt, Y\ 
teaspoon paprika, and stir into the batter. Drop by 
spoonfuls into deep fat and fry. 

Egg Salad 

Cut 4 of Hood's eggs, hard boiled, in halves length- 
wise, remove the yolks, mash, moisten with boiled dressing 



336 DAILY LIVING 

and season with salt, shape into balls, refill whites, and 
arrange on lettuce leaves, serve with boiled dressing. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Butter Cake 

Refer to November 1 1, and use i whole egg and yolks 
of 2 of Hood's eggs. 

Maple Sugar Frosting 

Use I cup maple sugar broken in small pieces, yi cup 
water, and proceed as for maple frosting, refer to Feb- 
ruary 20. 

May 16 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Stewed Fowl 

Cook fowl as fowl Southern style, refer to November 
I, season with salt and thicken stock with flour diluted 
with cold water to pour. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i . 

Boiled Spinach* Refer to February 2. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Hull, wash and cut in small pieces i box strawberries, 
sweeten to taste and warm before using in shortcake. 
Prepare as orange shortcake, refer to December 14. 



HOOD'S MILK 337 



Cottage Cheese and Parsley Sandwich 

Mash I of Hood's cottage cheeses, add 2 tablespoons 
chopped parsley, and use as filling for sandwiches. 

May 17 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Baked Beans Reheated* Refer to November i . 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 

Bermuda Onions with Syrup 

Soak 3 onions, sliced fine, in cold water i hour and 
drain, boil 5 minutes ^ cup each water and vinegar, 
Yz cup sugar, pour over the onions, season with salt 
and serve cold. 

Sliced Bananas* Refer to January 29. 

Cake* Prepared May 15. 

Individual Chicken Pies 

Cut left over fowl from the bones and into small 
pieces, put in individual baking dishes, pour over re- 
maining sauce ; add a few drops onion juice and potato 
balls, parboiled 5 minutes, cover with pastry, refer to 
November 9, and bake about }i hour in a moderate oven. 

Potato Balls* Refer to January 17. 

Dates with Whipped Cream 

Parboil 5 minutes % pound dates, drain and put in 
oven to dry, then remove the stones and cut in small 
pieces. Serve with whipped cream, refer to November 4. 



338 DAILY LIVING 

May 18 

Cereal with Dates. Refer to January 26. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Rye Muffins. Refer to November 7. 

Beef Broth with Macaroni 

Add ys cup macaroni cooked and cut in small pieces 
to I quart stock left from spiced beef, which has been 
strained. 

Cake 

Prepared May 15. 

Cold Spiced Beef 

Cut 3 pounds lower round steak in small pieces, add 
3 pints cold water, i onion cut in pieces, 3 cloves, bit 
of bay leaf, 2 sprigs parsley and i teaspoon salt, sim- 
mer until the meat is very tender, then cut into shreds, 
put in a deep pan, add enough of the liquid to moisten, 
fit on another pan, and press under weight, as with a 
fiatiron, until cold, then remove from the tin and 
slice thin. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Refer to November i . 

Dandelion Greens 

Cut the roots and buds from i peck dandelions, wash, 
and put in kettle, add water to keep from burning, add 
3 slices salt pork, cook until tender, then drain, cut with 
a knife and fork, and season with salt. 

Rhubarb Pie 

Refer to April 12. 



HOOD'S MILK 339 



May 19 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toasts Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Tomato Soup with Stock 

Use part or all stock in place of water, and proceed 
as for tomato soup, refer to December 25. 

Cheese Croutons. Refer to February 3. 

Coffee Souffle 

Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 3 tablespoons 
flour, and gradually i cup made coffee, then remove 
from the fire, add Yz cup sugar, few grains salt, and the 
yolks of 3 of Hood's eggs beaten thick, cool, then fold 
in the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, and bake about 
25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Cold Spiced Beef* Prepared May 18. 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Dandelion Salad 

Dress left over dandelions with French dressing, refer 
to November 7, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19. 

May 20 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Dried Beef* Refer to March 7 



340 DAILY LIVING 

Coffee^ Refer to November i. 

Creamy Welsh Rarebit* Refer to March 28. 

Stewed Rhubarb. Refer to April 13. 

Tea Muffins 

Cream ys cup Hood's butter, add }( cup sugar, beat 
I of Hood's eggs, add ^ cup Hood's milk, and add 
alternately to the first mixture, with 2 cups flour, 4 tea- 
spoons baking powder, j{ teaspoon salt, mixed and sifted 
together. Bake in tin gem pans about 25 minutes. 
Makes i dozen. 

Planked Shad* 

Prepare and cook shad as for baked shad, refer to 
May 8, using an oak plank in place of baking pan. 
When the fish has finished baking garnish with potato 
roses, refer to March 25, and brown in a hot oven. 

Lettuce and Onion Salad* Refer to May 8. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding* Refer to November 20. 

Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

May 21 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 

Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Potato Soup. Refer to January 16. 

Crisp Crackers. Refer to December 23. 



HOOD'S MILK 341 

Popovers with Maple Syrup 

Serve hot popovers with maple syrup. 

Broiled Shad Roe 

Prepare shad roe as for baked shad roe, refer to April 
9, and broil over a clear fire or under the gas flame 
about 12 minutes. Serve with 

Tomato Sauce. Refer to December 1 2. 

French Fried Potato Balls 

Parboil potato balls 5 minutes in boiling salted water, 
drain, and let dry ; then fry in deep fat, and drain on 
brown paper, season with salt. 

Dressed Lettuce. Refer to November 7. 

Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 

May 22 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit. Refer to March 20. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 
Hot Biscuit. Refer to November 7, 

Broiled Veal Steak 

Cut a slice of veal from the leg. Wipe, and pan broil 
about 10 minutes, using 2 tablespoons Hood's butter. 
Season with salt. 

Cream Puffs 

Put %, cup Hood's butter and ^ cup boiling water 
in a saucepan, when the butter has melted and the 
water is boiling add ^ cup flour, and stir until the mixt- 
ure is smooth, then add i at a time 2 of Hood's eggs 
unbeaten, stirring until smooth between the adding of 



342 DAILY LIVING 

each egg. Drop from spoon into deep fat, and fry 
about 8 minutes, and drain on brown paper. Make an 
opening in each, and put in a teaspoon of Jelly. Makes 
9 puffs. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Steamed Graham Bread. Refer to January 2. 

Chocolate Jumbles 

Cream >^ cup Hood's butter, add i cup sugar, 2 
squares melted chocolate, i tablespoon Hood's milk, 2 
of Hood's eggs well beaten, then add 2 cups flour sifted 
with 2 teaspoons baking powder. Add enough more 
flour to stiffen. Chill, shape with a doughnut cutter, 
sprinkle with sugar, and bake about 8 minutes on 
inverted pans. 

May 23 

Creamed Beef* Refer to March 20. 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 

Coffeet Refer to November i. 

Roast Leg of Veal 

Do not have the veal boned, omit the stuffing and 
roast as stuffed roast veal, refer to April 4. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i . 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Lettuce and Green Pepper Salad 

Remove the seeds and veins from i green pepper. 
Parboil 5 minutes in boiling salted water. Cool, cut 
into strips, mix with >^ head shredded lettuce, and pour 
over a French dressing, refer to November 7. 



HOOD'S MILK 343 



Strawberry Ice Cream 

Add I box strawberries, hulled, washed, mashed, and 
sweetened to vanilla ice cream, omitting the vanilla, and 
preparing as ice cream, refer to November i. 

Chocolate Jumbles^ Prepared May 22. 

May 24 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 

Reheated Beans^ Refer to November i . 

Coffee. Refer to November r. 

Macaroni Baked. Refer to December 24. 

Baked Bananas* Refer to January 30. 

Cold Roast Veal. Prepared May 23. 

Onion Sauce 

Add 3 boiled onions chopped fine to i cup white 
sauce. Refer to November 6. 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Indian Pudding. Refer to November 5 . 

May 25 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast. Refer to December 27. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 
Spanish Beans. Refer to May 1 1 . 



344 DAILY LIVING 



Chocolate Jumbles* Prepared May 22. 

Minced Veal on Toast 

Chop veal fine, moisten with Hood's milk, add 2 table- 
spoons Hood's butter, and season with salt. Stir over 
the fire until thoroughly heated, and serve on toasted 
bread. 

Canned Beet Salad 

Drain and rinse i can beets. Chop fine ^ can, sea- 
son with salt and arrange on lettuce leaves. Cover with 
French dressing, refer to November 7. 

Banana Shortcake 

Roll out i^ recipe pastry, refer to November 9, % 
inch in thickness. Place on a sheet of brown paper in 
a baking pan, and bake. Place on serving dish, and 
arrange on the cake 4 bananas cut in halves lengthwise, 
when cold pour over ^ recipe 

Boiled Custard* Refer to March 3. 

May 26 

Oat CcreaL Refer to November 4. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Stuffed Green Peppers 

Remove the seeds and veins from 4 green peppers, 
and parboil 5 minutes in boiling salted water. Add i 
cup fine chopped veal to i cup white sauce. Fill into 
peppers. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs and bake 
10 minutes in a hot oven. 



HOOD'S MILK 345 



White Cake 

Cream y^ cup Hood's butter, add i cup sugar grad- 
ually, then add the whites of 3 of Hood's eggs beaten 
stiff and dry. Mix and sift i % cups flour and 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, and add alternately with y^ cup 
Hood's milk to the first mixture, add % teaspoon vanilla 
and bake in 2 shallow pans about 20 minutes. Put to- 
gether with 

Marshmallow Filling 

Heat 3^ cup sugar and % cup Hood's milk to the 
boiling point and boil 6 minutes, melt }^ pound marsh- 
mallows, cut in pieces, over hot water. Stir until the 
mixture is smooth, then add the hot syrup gradually, 
stirring constantly. Beat until of consistency to spread. 

Baked Shad Roe* Refer to April 9. 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 

Custard Pie* Refer to January 30. 

May 27 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Baked Creamed Eggs 

Cut 4 of Hood's eggs, hard boiled, into eighths 
lengthwise, pour over white sauce, refer to November 6, 
cover with % cup buttered cracker crumbs and reheat 
in a hot oven. 



346 DAILY LIVING 

Baking Powder Biscuits Refer to November 2. 
White Cake» Prepared May 26. 
Cocoa* Refer to December 13. 

Stuffed Shad 

Prepare fish stuffing, refer to April 27, and bake as 
haddock with salt pork, refer to November 1 3 . 

Potatoes with Parsley Butter 

Cream 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add i tablespoon 
chopped parsley, put in serving dish with hot boiled 
potatoes and stir until the potatoes are buttered. 

Coffee Jelly. Refer to November 2. 

Boiled Custard* Prepared May 25. 

May 28 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Corn Muffins* Refer to December 16. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Potato Soup with Cheese 

Prepare potato soup, and just before serving add )^ 
cup Hood's full cream cheese, grated, refer to January 
16. 

Imperial Sticks 

Cut slices of buttered bread in % inch slices, remove 
the crusts, cut in }^ inch strips, and brown in the oven, 
turning once. 



HOOD'S MILK 347 

Rhubarb Sauce* Refer to April 13. 
White Cake^ Prepared May 25. 
Fried Flounders* Refer to January 19. 

Boiled Dressing with Oil 

Prepare boiled dressing, refer to November 2, using 
oil in place of butter. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes* Refer to December 24. 

Baked Tapioca Pudding* Refer to April 16. 

May 29 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Potato and Beet Salad 

Cut 4 cold boiled potatoes in cubes, moisten with 
boiled dressing, and season with salt and onion juice. 
Chop y^ can beets fine, season with salt, add ^ cup 
vinegar and let stand 10 minutes. Mound the potatoes 
on a serving dish and surround with the chopped beets. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Cottage Pudding* Refer to May 14. 

Strawberry Sauce 

Hull and wash y^ box strawberries, mash and sweeten 
to taste, add ^ cup cold water. Put in a canning jar, 
set on a trivet in a kettle of warm water, and cook 
slowly ^ hour, then strain through cheese cloth. 



348 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 
Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 
Rhubarb Pie* Refer to April 12. 

May 30 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Cold Boiled Tongue 

Wash the tongue, put in kettle, cover with cold water, 
bring to the boiling point, and simmer 3 or 4 hours or 
until the tongue is soft. Cool in the water, then re- 
move the skin. Serve cold, sliced thin. 

Delmonico Cream Potatoes 

Scald ^ pint jar Hood's light cream, add }^ table- 
spoon flour diluted with cold water to pour, and cook 5 
minutes. Then add 2 cups potatoes, cut as for French 
fried potatoes, and parboiled in boiling salted water 6 
minutes or until nearly soft. Cook the potatoes in the 
sauce 15 minutes, then add Yz cup Hood's full cream 
cheese, grated, and season with salt and paprika. 

Boiled Spinach 

Refer to February 2. 

Strawberry Whip 

Sweeten and mash ^ box washed strawberries. 
Add I cup Hood's medium cream beaten until thick. 
Chill before serving. 

Hulled Corn 

Refer to March 19. 



HOOD'S MILK 349 



May 31 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November i. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Creamed Cheese 

Add I cup Hood's full cream cheese, grated, to i cup 
white sauce, refer to November 6, serve on toasted 
bread, refer to November i . 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 

Use I cup Hood's milk in place of ^ cup in baking 
powder biscuit, refer to November 2. Turn into but- 
tered baking pan, and bake about 1 5 minutes. Split, 
and spread with Hood's butter. Put between and on 
top of the cake i box of strawberries, hulled, washed, 
mashed and sweetened. 

Cold Boiled Tongue* Prepared May 30. 

Creamed Macaroni. Refer to April 27. 

Grapefruit Jelly 

^ Use grapefruit juice in place of orange juice, and pre- 
pare as orange jelly, refer to December 7. 

White Cake 

Prepared May 25. 



350 



DAILY LIVING 



Cost of L'iviins for May- 



Mar i^S 

lYi lbs. butter $0.98 

1 3 quarts milk i . 1 7 

9 half pint jars liglit cream. . .63 

2 doz. eggs 70 

Cottage cheese 05 

Cereal 08 

Sugar 18 

Coffee ,.. .28 

Flour 20 

Spices and salt 02 

Baking powder 05 

Rye meal 02 

Indian meal 02 

Graham flour 02 

2 yeast cakes 04 

I doz. bananas 20 

I qt. clams 25 

Olive oil 15 

Beans 08 

Cocoanut 02 

5 lbs. lamb 80 

Potatoes 10 

Pk. beet greens 20 

Lettuce 08 

Vinegar 01 

Ice and salt 05 

Crackers 10 

Rice 05 

Gelatin 02 

Lemons 02 

Cornstarch 01 

Maple syrup 05 

Can corn 12 

Red peppers 15 

Vanilla 01 

I lb. veal steak 30 

Vegetables 03 

Codfish 02 

Lima beans 03 

Canned fruit 10 

Rhubarb, i lb -08 

Shad roe 25 

Lard 08 



Total for week. . , $7.80 



May 8-15 

13 qts. milk ^1.17 

2^ lbs. butter 98 

2 doz. eggs 70 

9 half pint jars light cream. . .63 

Pt. buttermilk 04 

Cottage cheese 05 

X lb. full cream cheese 06 

Potatoes 10 

Coffee 28 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Baking powder 03 

Vanilla 02 

Spices and salt 02 

Shad 20 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Lettuce 08 

Vegetables 05 

Oil 10 

Beans and pork 16 

Graham flour 03 

Salt fish 07 

5 lbs. fowl 75 

Corn meal 03 

Currant jelly 05 

3 lemons 07 

Cornstarch 01 

Molasses 02 

Cereal and rice 09 

Canned fruit 10 

Can peas 18 

Lard 08 

Maple syrup 05 

Tomatoes 02 

Green pepper 04 

2 lbs. knuckle veal 24 

I lb. rhubarb .05 

Tapioca 01 

Rye meal 01 

% lb. dried apples 08 

Pickles 04 

Chocolate 03 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

Crackers 05 

Yz head lettuce 04 

Total for week ^7.51 



HOOD'S MILK 



351 



May IS'22 

12 qts. milk $1.08 

2)4 lbs. butter 98 

2 doz. eggs 70 

7 half pint jars light cream. . .49 

l4 pt. jar medium cream 10 

Cottage cheese 05 

^ lb, full cream cheese 11 

Shredded wheat biscuit 04 

Coffee 28 

Bananas 20 

1 pt. clams 15 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Baked beans 08 

Salt pork 04 

^2 lb. maple sugar 08 

Lettuce, 2 heads 16 

Oil ID 

Lard 08 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Rye meal 01 

Indian meal 03 

5 lbs. fowl 75 

^ pk. spinach 13 

Box strawberries 18 

Parsley 02 

Potatoes 10 

Baking Powder 03 

Vanilla 02 

Cereal 06 

3^ lb. bacon 04 

Vegetables 05 

I lb. dates 10 

3 lbs. lower round 45 

Peck dandelions 25 

I lb. rhubarb 05 

Tomatoes 02 

Macaroni 01 

Tapioca 01 

j4 package dried beef 06 

Vinegar. 03 

Currants 02 

Shad with roe 35 

Crackers 03 

Maple syrup 05 

Rice 01 

Spices and salt 02 

Total for week $8.00 



May 22.31 

17 qts. milk $^-SZ 

13 half pt. jars light cream . . .91 

2,^2 lbs. butter 1.17 

2 doz, eggs 70 

}4. pt. jar medium cream 10 

I cottage cheese 05 

y2 lb. full cream cheese 11 

Shredded wheat biscuit 04 

Cereal 08 

Bananas, i doz 20 

1 lb. coffee 35 

Flour and sugar 44 

Baking powder 05 

Spices and salt 03 

Molasses and vinegar 03 

Oil 10 

Crackers 05 

2 yeast cakes 04 

6 lbs. leg of veal 84 

Beans and pork 24 

Rye meal and Indian meal. . .07 

yi package dried beef 06 

Potatoes 10 

y^ doz. green peppers 25 

Ice and salt 05 

3 boxes strawberries 45 

Lettuce . .* 08 

Macaroni 05 

Vegetables 05 

Tomatoes 03 

Can beets 15 

Lard 05 

Codfish 02 

Shad with roe 35 

^ lb. marshmellows 08 

Vanilla 02 

Parsley 02 

Gelatin 05 

1 lb. rhubarb 05 

2 lb. flounders 30 

Tapioca 01 

% of 4 lb. tongue, 84 cts 56 

^ pk. spinach 10 

1 qt. hulled corn 12 

2 grapefruit 15 

Total for week ^10.38 

Total- for month ^3378 



352 



DAILY LIVING 



L'OMrering tKe Cost 



May 1-8 

Coffee -. J0.28 

7 half pt. jars light cream. . , .49 

Cottage cheese 05 

Maple syrup 05 

I lb. lower round 1 5 cts., for 

veal 30 cts 15 

Canned fruit 10 

Red peppers 1 5 cts., use creole 

rice 3 cts 12 

^1.24 



May 8-15 

7 half pt. jars light cream. . .I0.49 

Cottage cheese .05 

Coffee 28 

Currant jelly 05 

Canned fruit 10 

Maple syrup 05 

Green pepper 04 

Pickles 04 

Chocolate 03 

^1.13 



May 15-22 

7 half pt. jars light cream 

Medium cream , 

Cottage cheese , 

Oil 

Coffee 

Maple sugar , 

I head lettuce 

Bacon 

Currants 

Maple syrup , 



•49 
.10 

•OS 
•05 
.28 
.08 
.08 
.04 
.02 
•OS 



^1.24 



May 22^31 

ID half pt. jars light cream. .^0.70 

Medium cream 10 

Coffee 35 

Dried beef 06 

Green peppers 25 

Parsley 02 

Grapefruit 15 

1.63 

Total for month ^5.24 



Month of June 



FORMAL SERVING 

Luncheon and Dinner 



In laying the table for formal serving, the plate line 
extends in from the outer edge of the table from 1 5 to 
18 inches. Inside of this line, place the candles if used, 
dishes of salted almonds and bonbons. Flowers in the 
centre of the table should be simply arranged. According 
to the directions already given for laying the table, set 
in place the spoon for grapefruit, if served, either above 
the plate or the first in order on the right ; or, in the 
same place, the fork for the oysters, if served in place of 
the grapefruit. Lay in their order, the spoon for the 
soup, fork for the fish, fork for the entree, knife and fork 
for the principal course, salad fork, tumbler of water, 
napkin with a piece of bread or roll inserted. The in- 
dividual butter plate is used in place of the bread and 
butter plate, but at a very formal dinner butter is not 
served. 

The dessert spoon or fork and the coffee spoon do 
not appear on the table when laid. 

When using the bare table laid with doilies, all of the 
silver except the first 2 pieces is placed when required 
for use. 

When luncheon or dinner is announced, on the side- 
board or serving table should be arranged : an extra sup- 
ply of bread and butter ; olives in a dish on cracked ice ; 
a bottle of water ; cruets of oil and vinegar, if used ; 
cut sugar for the coffee ; the serving spoons, knives and 
forks, required for the different courses ; coffee cups, 

355 



356 DAILY LIVING 

saucers, and spoons ; and dessert spoons or forks. The 
finger bowls, if used, should be Ys filled with warm 
water, placed in a plate with a doily between. Also 
have on the serving table a small tray covered with a 
cloth, and an extra napkin in case of accident. 

The dishes required for serving the hot food should 
be in the warming oven, and for the cold food in a cool 
place. 

When luncheon or dinner is announced, the grapefruit 
or oysters should be in place, the tumblers filled ^ with 
water, and each place supplied with bread and butter. 

In serving the formal luncheon, the hostess should 
always be served first, as no one should be preferred 
before the mistress in her own home. At the formal 
dinner the serving begins at the left or right of the host. 
If the one at the left of the host is served first with the 
first course, then the one at the right of the host is 
served first with the second course, and so continue, 
always serving the host last. 

At a formal dinner or luncheon, while the waitress 
may bring in from the pantry 2 prepared serving plates, 
at a time, yet i plate is left on the serving table while 
the other is laid in place from the right hand. 

The plates are removed for another course, one at a 
time and deposited in the pantry. 

' The service plate which appears on the table to hold 
the plate for either the oysters or grapefruit is removed 
with last course before the principal course, to be re- 
placed by either the luncheon or dinner plate. 

The same general rules as previously given apply to 
the serving of either a formal luncheon or dinner. 



HOOD'S MILK 



357 



June I 

Brea.Kfast 

Wheat Cereal Rye Muffins Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Steamed Clams Crackers 

Strawberries- Hot Biscuit 

Dinner 

Clam Bouillon Breaded Tongue 

Tomato Sauce 
Rice Pudding Mashed Potatoes 



June 2 

BreaKfast 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs Fried Potato Cakes 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Creamed Vegetables Cheese Croutons 

Jelly Roll 

Dinner 

Baked Swordfish Butter Gravy 

Boiled Potatoes Strawberry Shortcake 



June 3 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Fish and Potatoes 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L'tincKeon or Supper 

Vegetable Salad Boiled Dressing with Whipped Cream 

Jelly Roll Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Nut Loaf French Fried Potatoes Rhubarb Pie 



358 DAILY LIVING 

June 4 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Bananas 

Corn Cake Coffee 

L-tincHeon or Supper 

Broiled Salt Fish Baked Potatoes 

Entire Wheat Popovers Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 

Reheated Nut Loaf Rice Croquettes 

Radish and Lettuce Salad Bread and Butter 



June 5 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Dinner 

Potato and Egg Salad Boiled Dressing 

Hot Biscuit Baked Bananas 

Dinner or Stipper 

Beans Baked with Cream Brown Bread 

Maple Custard Pie 



June 6 



BreaKfast 

Fish Balls Toasted Bread 

Rhubarb Marmalade Coffee 

Dinner 

Roast Chicken Stuffing Gravy 

Imitation New Potatoes Boiled Onions 

Marshmallow Ice Cream 

Tea 

Bananas in Chafing Dish 
Currant Jelly Sauce Toasted Bread 



HOOD'S MILK 



359 



June 7 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Corn Cake Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Stipper 

Reheated Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Cottage Cheese Crackers 

Dinner 

Chicken with Whipped Cream and Horseradish 
Delmonico Potatoes Lemon Custard Pie 



June 8 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Reheated Baked Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

L'tmcKeon or Supper 

Creamed Asparagus on Toast 
Peanut Cookies 

Dinner 

Baked Stuffed Bluefish Fish Stuffing 

Tomato Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Hot Biscuit Rhubarb Marmalade 



June 9 

Breahlfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Potatoes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LftincHeon or Stipper 

Bluefish Salad Sour Cream Dressing 

Peanut Cookies Iced Coffee 

Dinner 

Hamburg Roast Mashed Potatoes 

Cottage Pudding Hot Custard Sauce 



36o DAILY LIVING 

June 10 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes 

Corn Cake Coffee 

L'U.iicHeork or Supper 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 
Cottage Cheese Peanut Cookies 

Dinner 

Cold Hamburg Roast German Potato Salad 

Tapioca Cream 



June n 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Bananas 

Corn Muffins Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Egg Salad Sour Cream Dressing 

Strawberries Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Fried Swordfish Fish Gravy 

Boiled Potatoes Rice Pudding 



June 12 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Codfish 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

Dinner or LuncHeon 

Baked Mackerel Delmonico Potatoes 

Sliced Bananas Hot Biscuit 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Steamed Graham Bread 

Chocolate Sponge Cake 



HOOD'S MILK 361 



June 13 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Bananas Coffee 

Dinner 

Fowl Southern Style French Rice 

Fried Cheese Balls Strawberry Ice 

Tea 

Strawberry Ice Chocolate Sponge Cake Hood's Milk 



June 14 

BreaKfast 

Toasted Corn Flakes Reheated Baked Beans 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

LtincKeoii or Stopper 

Rice Omelet White Sauce 

Toasted English Muffins Rhubarb Marmalade 

Dinner 

Chicken Stew Dumplings 

Asparagus on Toast Hollandaise Sauce 



June 15 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Bananas 

Toasted English Muffins Coffee 

LrtincKeon or Sxipper 

Parsley Omelet Hot Biscuit Cottage Cheese 

Dinner 

Veal Broth with Vegetables Scalloped Rhubarb 



362 DAILY LIVING 

June \6 

BresiKfast 

Corn Flakes Milk Toast Coffee 

LrtmcHeon or Supper 

Asparagus with Melted Butter Toasted Bread 

Iced Russian Tea or Hood's Milk Crackers 

Dinner 

Veal and Vegetable Pie 
Banana Pudding Boiled Custard 



June 17 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L'U.iicKeoii or Supper 

Hulled Corn and Milk 
Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 

Dinner 

Boiled Salmon Egg Sauce Green Peas 

Imitation New Potatoes 

Banana Shortcake Boiled Custard 



June 18 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Potatoes 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

L'UncHeon or Supper 

Salmon and Potato Balls Potato Rolls 

Creamed Peas Rhubarb Sauce 

Dinner 

Broiled Schrod Boiled Potatoes 
Butter Gravy Tapioca Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 



363 



June 19 



Corn Flakes 



BreaKfast 



Hashed Fish 
Coffee 



Reheated Rolls 

I^uncHeoxi or Dinner 

Broiled Tripe Delmonico Potatoes 

Red Currants Hot Biscuit 

Dinner or Supper 



Baked Beans 

Cream Cakes 



Steamed Graham Bread 
Cream Filling 



June 20 



BreetKfast 



Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Graham Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Planked Chicken Rice Border 



Tea 

Crackers 



Coffee Mousse 
Cream Cakes 



Cucumber Salad 
Hood's Milk 

June 21 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Rice Muffins 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Baked Bean Salad Boiled Dressing 

Toasted Brown Bread Baked Tapioca Pudding 

Dinner 

Cold Corned Beef Baked Potato Souffle 

Mashed Turnips 
Strawberries Bread and Butter 



364 DAILY LIVING 

June 22 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LtincHeon or Supper 

Potato Salad Boiled Dressing 

Sliced Pineapple Hot Biscuit 

Dinner 

Cold Corned Beef Delmonico Potatoes 

Steamed Rice Chocolate Syrup 



June 23 



BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Rice Muffins 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs 
Coffee 

L-uncHeon or Stipper 

Baked Macaroni Pineapple and Strawberry Salad 

Graham Scones 

Dinner 

Corned Beef and Green Pepper Hash 
Bread and Butter Strawberry Cream 



June 24 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Omelet White Sauce 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LuncHeon or Stipper 

Stuffed Peppers Currant Jelly Toasted Bread 

Dinner 

Broiled Mackerel Boiled Potatoes 

New Beets Baked Bananas Bread and Butter 



HOOD'S MILK 365 



June 25 

BreaRfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Bananas Corn Cake Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Asparagus and Egg Salad Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Bread and Butter Rhubarb Marmalade 

Dinner 

Baked Salmon Creamed Potatoes 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 



June 26 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Milk Toast Coffee 

LtincKeon or Dinner 

Meat Balls Hot Biscuit 

Banana Salad Mayonnaise Dressing 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans Baked with Onion 
Brown Bread Baked Custards 



June 27 

BreaRfast 

Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread Reheated 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Boiled Ham Sweet Rice Croquettes 

Radish and Lettuce Salad Cherry Pie 

Tea 

Lettuce Sandwiches Hood's Buttermilk or Milk 



366 DAILY LIVING 

June 28 

BreciRfast 

Corn Flakes Baked Beans Reheated 

Toasted Brown Bread Coffee 

LuficHeon or Supper 

Cheese Souffle Toasted Bread 

Stewed Prunes Sugar Cookies 

Dinner 

Broiled Ham Mashed Potatoes 

Tomato Salad Boiled Dressing 

Baking Powder Biscuit 



June 29 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Creamed Codfish 
Coffee 

L'tiYicHeon or Supper 

Vegetable Salad Boiled Dressing 

Hot Biscuit Jellied Prunes 

Sugar Cookies 

Dinner 

Cold Ham Fried Potato Cakes 

Cottage Pudding Hot Custard Sauce 



June 30 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Eggs and Ham Shirred 

Bread and Butter Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Supper 

Creamed Vegetables Toasted Bread 

Cottage Cheese Sugar Cookies 

Baked Swordfish Butter Gravy 

Boiled Potatoes Tapioca Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 367 



June 1 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Steamed Clams 

Wash and scrub 3 quarts clams in the shell. Put in 
kettle with Yo cup cold water, bring quickly to the boil- 
ing point, cover and steam until the shells open wide. 
Serve accompanied with Hood's butter melted. 

Hot Biscuit 

Refer to November 7. 

Clam Bouillon 

Strain the liquid remaining from steamed clams 
through cheese cloth ; season with salt and paprika, and 
serve very hot in small cups. 

Breaded Tongue 

Slice the left over tongue in ^ inch slices, dip in 
crumbs, Hood's o^gg and crumbs ; put in baking pan, dot 
over with Hood's butter, and bake about 20 minutes in 
a hot oven. Serve with 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i. 

Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 

June 2 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 



368 DAILY LIVING 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Creamed Vegetables 

Prepare a double recipe white sauce, refer to Novem- 
ber 6, and reheat in the sauce ^ can or i cup each peas 
and string beans. Season with salt and paprika, and 
cook in the double boiler lo minutes. 

Cheese Croutons. Refer to February 3. 

Jelly Roll 

Prepare sponge cake, refer to May 8, bake in a hot 
oven in a dripping pan. Turn out on a towel, cut off 
the edges, spread with jelly, and roll up in the towel. 

Baked Swordfish 

Wipe I pound swordfish, cut }^ inch in thickness. 
Season with salt, roll in corn meal, place in baking pan, 
on strips of salt pork, and bake about ^ hour in a hot 
oven. 

Butter Gravy. Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Potatoes. Refer to November 3. 

Strawberry Shortcake. Refer to May 16. 

June 3 

Creamed Fish and Potatoes 

Cut left over fish and potatoes in cubes, add to white 
sauce, refer to November 6, using also any left over 
butter gravy. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 369 

Vegetable Salad 

Arrange i cup each string beans and peas, seasoned 
with salt, on lettuce leaves. Cover with boiled dressing. 

Boiled Dressing with Whipped Cream 

Prepare boiled dressing, refer to November 2, and 
when cold add ^ cup Hood's medium cream, beaten 
thick. 

Jelly Roll* Prepared June 2. 

Nut Loat Refer to March 5. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 

Rhubarb Pie* Refer to April 12. 

Jtine 4 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Broiled Salt Fish 

Soak Yi pound salt fish, cut in i piece, i hour in luke- 
warm water. Drain, put in baking pan, dot over with i 
tablespoon Hood's butter, and bake about 1 5 minutes in 
a hot oven. 

Baked Potatoes 

Refer to November 4. 

Entire Wheat Popovers 

Use half entire wheat and half white flour, and pro- 
ceed as for popovejs, refer to April 23. 

Rhubarb Sauce 

Refer to April 13. 



370 DAILY LIVING 



Reheated Nut Loaf* Prepared June 3. 
Rice Croquettes. Refer to November 16. 

Radish and Lettuce Salad 

Cut I bunch of washed radishes in thin slices, and 
mix with ^ head shredded lettuce ; pour over French 
dressing, refer to November 7. 

Jtine 5 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Potato and Egg Salad 

Garnish potato salad, refer to November 19, with 2 of 
Hood's eggs, hard boiled, and cut in slices. 

Boiled Dressing* Prepared June 3. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Baked Bananas* Refer to January 30. 

Beans Baked with Cream 

Add Yq. pint jar Hood's light cream to baked beans, 
refer to November 7, the last hour of cooking. 

Brown Bread > 

Refer to November 7. 

Maple Custard Pie 

Use yi cup maple syrup in place of sugar. The 
whites of 2 of Hood's eggs may be used in place of i 



HOOD'S MILK 371 

June 6 

Fish Balls* Refer to November 8. 
Xoasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

Remove the peel from 6 oranges, and cook slowly until 
soft. Cool, remove the white portion with a spoon, and 
cut the yellow portion into strips. Take the orange 
pulp out from between the sections of membrane, and 
put in saucepan with 3 pounds rhubarb, peeled and cut 
in ^ inch pieces. Boil 20 minutes, then add 6 cups 
sugar, the prepared peel, and cook slowly 2 hours. Cool 
and bottle. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Roast Chicken* Refer to November 8. 

Stuffing* Refer to November 8. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Imitation New Potatoes 

Pare small potatoes, and soak i hour in cold water. 
Drain, put in kettle with i teaspoon salt, i cup Hood's 
milk, and cover with boiling water. Cook until soft, 
then drain, and dry in oven. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Marshmallow Ice Cream 

Add ^ pound marshmallows cut in small pieces to 
vanilla ice cream after freezing, refer to November i . 

Bananas Fried (chafing dish) refer to April 25. 

Currant Jelly Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 



372 DAILY LIVING 

June 7 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Reheated Beans* Refer to November I . 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 

Chicken with Whipped Cream and Horseradish 

Chop the left over chicken fine, add ^ cup horse- 
radish drained, and i cup Hood's mediiim cream, beaten 
thick, and fokled in carefully. Season with salt. 

Delmonico Potatoes. Refer to January 7. 

Lemon Custard Pie* Refer to November 9 

June 8 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Creamed Asparagus on Toast 

Wash I bunch asparagus, snap off the tough ends and 
discard. Break the stalks into inch pieces, reserving 
the tips, put the stalks into boiling salted water, and 
cook uncovered about 20 minutes or until nearly tender, 
then add the tips and finish cooking. Drain, arrange on 
toasted bread, and pour over white sauce, refer to 
November 6. 



HOOD'S MILK 373 



Peanut Cookies 

Cream % cup Hood's butter, add ]/> cup sugar and 
I of Hood's eg-gs well beaten. Mix and sift i cup flour 
and 2% teaspoons baking powder, add alternately with 
Yz cup Hood's milk to the. first mixture, add i cup 
shelled peanuts, cut in small pieces. Chill, then drop 
by teaspoons onto inverted buttered pans and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Baked Stuffed Bluefish 

Stuff 3 pounds bluefish and bake as stuffed haddock, 
refer to November 3. 

Fish Stuffing* Refer to April 27. 
Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Rhubarb Marmalade* Prepared June 6. 

June 9 

Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Bluefish Salad 

Prepare bluefish as for fish salad, refer to May 14, 
mix with dressing, and arrange on lettuce leaves. 

Sour Cream Dressing 

Cream together % cup each sugar and Hood's butter, 
I tablespoon each salt, flour and mustard, and few grains 
cayenne. Scald % pi^it jar Hood's light cream which 



374 DAILY LIVING 

has been soured. Add the yolks of 2 of Hood's eggs 
to the first mixture with the scalded cream. Cook over 
hot water, stirring constantly until the mixture begins to 
thicken, then add >^ cup vinegar, gradually, stirring 
constantly and finish thickening. Strain and cool. 

Peanut Cookies* Prepared June 8. 

Iced Coffee 

Add Y-z pint jar Hood's light cream to 3 cups coffee, 
cool, and when ready to serve add a small piece chopped 
ice. 

Hamburg Roast 

Order 2 pounds lower round steak, put through the 
meat chopper. Shape in a roll, put in baking pan, 
bake about 35 minutes in a hot oyen, basting with 
Hood's butter melted. 

Mashed Potatoes. Refer to November I . 

Cottage Pudding* Refer to May 14. 

Hot Custard Sauce. Refer to November 2. 

Jtine 10 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 

Refer to May 31. 

Peanut Cookies 

Prepared June 8. 



HOOD'S MILK 375 



Cold Hamburg Roasts Prepared June 9. 
German Potato Salads Refer to April 21. 
Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19. 

June 11 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 

Corn Muffins* Refer to December 16. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Egg Salad* Refer to May 15. 

Sour Cream Dressing* Prepared June 9. 

Fried Swordfish 

Wipe I pound swordfish, season with salt, roll in corn 
meal, and fry in salt pork fat, slowly, until brown on one 
side, then turn and brown other side. 

Fish Gravy- 
Add enough Hood's butter to fat in the frying pan to 
make 3 tablespoons, add 3 tablespoons flour and brown, 
then add gradually i y^ cups hot water ; boil 5 minutes, 
season with salt, and- strain over fish. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 

Jtine 12 

Creamed Codfish. Refer to November 6. 
Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 



376 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Mackerel 

Bake mackerel 25 minutes, as baked shad, refer to 
May 8. 

Delmonico Potatoes* Refer to January 7. 

Sliced Bananas* Refer to January 29, omitting nuts. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to January 7. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 

Chocolate Sponge Cake 

After mixing add 2 squares of melted chocolate to 
sponge cake, refer to May 8. Bake 35 minutes in a 
shallow cake pan. 

Jtine 13 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Fowl Southern Style* Refer to November i . 

French Rice 

Wash I cup rice, put in a saucepan with i teaspoon 
salt and 2 quarts boiling water. Boil 30 minutes or 
until soft. The last ten minutes of cooking add i cup 
Hood's milk. Drain the rice. The water may be added 
to the stock in which the fowl is cooking. 

Fried Cheese Balls 

Mix I cup Hood's full cream cheese grated, i table- 
spoon flour, few grains each salt and paprika, and the 



HOOD'S MILK 377 



whites of 2 of Hood's eggs beaten stiff. Shape in small 
balls, the size of marbles, roll in cracker crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat. 

Strawberry Ice 

Use I box of strawberries, hulled, washed, and rubbed 
through a strainer, in place of oranges, and prepare as 
orange sherbet, refer to children's parties, February. 

Chocolate Sponge Cake 

Prepared June 12. 

June 14 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Rice Omelet* Refer to March 8. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted English Muffins* Refer to January 28. 
Rhubarb Marmalade. Prepared June 6. 
Chicken Stew* Refer to December 2 1 . 
HoIIandaise Sauce* Refer to March 1 1 . 

Asparagus with HoIIandaise 

Wash I bunch asparagus, and snap off the tough 
ends. Cook standing upright in boiling salted water 20 
minutes, having the tips out of water. The last 5 min- 
utes cook with the tips under the water. Remove from 
the water, lay on two slices of buttered toast, and re- 
move the string, pour over HoIIandaise sauce. Refer 
to March 4. 



378 DAILY LIVING 

June 15 

Shredded Wheats Refer to March 20. 
Toasted English Muffins* Prepared June 14. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Parsley Omelet 

Prepare omelet, refer to December 5, cut and fold the 
whites into the yolks, with i tablespoon finely chopped 
parsley. 

Hot Biscuit. Refer to November 7. 

Veal Broth with Vegetables 

Wipe and cut 3 pounds knuckle veal in small pieces ; 
put in kettle with 2 quarts cold water. Bring to the 
boiling point, let boil 5 minutes, then simmer i % hours, 
add I turnip and carrot cut in small dice, and 2 onions 
cut fine, cook until the vegetables are soft, adding more 
water, if necessary, to have 2 quarts. Remove to a bak- 
ing dish enough of the vegetables and meat, covered 
with the broth, for a pie. Thicken the remainder with 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter melted, and blended with 
2 tablespoons flour. Season with salt. 

Scalloped Rhubarb 

Butter 6 slices stale bread with Hood's butter. Ar- 
range in layers in a baking dish, cover each layer with 
rhubarb sauce, using for the recipe }^ pound rhubarb. 
Bake about i hour in a moderate oven. 

June 16 

Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 



HOOD'S MILK 379 



Asparagus with Melted Butter 

Cook asparagus as asparagus June 14. Lay on 
toasted bread, and pour over 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter, melted. 

Iced Russian Tea 

Prepare tea, refer to November i ; when ready to 
serve, add a small piece of ice, and serve with a slice of 
lemon in each cup. 

Veal and Vegetable Pie 

Use the veal and vegetables left from veal broth, sea- 
son with salt, cover with )4 the recipe pastry, refer to 
November 9, and bake about ^ of an hour in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Banana Pudding. Refer to March 3. 

Boiled Custards Refer to March 3. 

June 17 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Hulled Corn and Milk* Refer to March 19. 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 

Refer to May 3 1 . 

Boiled Salmon 

Prepare boiled salmon as boiled fish, refer to Novem- 
ber 6. 

Egg Sauce 

Add I of Hood's eggs, hard boiled and chopped fine, 
to white sauce, refer to November 6. 



38o DAILY LIVING 

Green Peas 

Shell y^ jDeck green peas, put in kettle, cover with 
boiling water, add i teaspoon salt and a few of the 
young green pods. Cook uncovered until tender. Re- 
move the pods, drain, add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, 
^ cup Hood's milk if desired, and season with salt. 

Imitation New Potatoes, Refer to June 6. 

Banana Shortcake, Refer to May 25. 

Boiled Custard, Prepared June 16. 

June 18 

Creamed Potatoes, Refer to November 4. 
Graham Muffins, Refer to November 3. 
Coffee, Refer to November i . 

Salmon and Potato Balls 

Flake in small pieces the left over salmon, add an 
equal quantity hot mashed potatoes, season with salt, 
and add if necessary enough Hood's milk to shape into 
balls, allowing i rounding tablespoon for each ball. 
Dip in crumbs, the whites of 2 of Hood's eggs, or i 
whole ^gg^ to which has been added 2 tablespoons cold 
water, then in crumbs again. Fry in deep fat and drain 
on brown paper. 

Potato Rolls 

Add I cup Hood's milk scalded to 2 tablespoons each 
sugar and Hood's btitter, ^ teaspoon salt and ^ cup 
hot mashed potato. When lukewarm add the white of i 
of Hood's eggs, beaten stiff, i yeast cake dissolved in ^ 
cup lukewarm water, and 1 5^ cups flour. Beat well, 
let rise until light, then add enough flour to knead. 



HOOD'S MILK 381 



Knead, let rise until doubled in bulk, shape into 24 
round biscuits, let rise again, and bake about 25 minutes 
on an inverted pan, without touching. 

Creamed Peas^ Refer to February 1 5 . 

Rhubarb Sauce^ Refer to April 1 3. 

Broiled Schrod 

Order a 2 pound schrod split, wipe, put on well buttered 
broiler, and broil over a clear fire about 1 5 minutes, or 
until the fish is dry and flakes apart. Remove to platter, 
season with salt, and spread with Hood's butter. May 
be broiled under the gas flame. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Butter Gravy* Refer to November 3. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19. 

June 19 

Hashed Fish* Refer to November 14. 
Reheated Rolls* Refer to November 12. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Broiled Xripe. Refer to January 21. 
Delmonico Potatoes* Refer to January 7. 

Red Currants 

Strip I box red currants from the stems, put in 
strainer, wash, then put in serving dish, sweeten and let 
stand 2 hours before serving. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 



382 DAILY LIVING 

Steamed Graham Bread 

Refer to January 2. 

Cream Cakes 

Prepare a double recipe cream puffs, refer to May 22. 
Drop from the tablespoon onto an inverted unbuttered 
pan, making 18 cakes. Bake about ^ hour in a moder- 
ate oven, until the cake feels hollow when taken in the 
hand. Cool, cut a gash in the side and fill with 

Cream Filling 

Mix Yq, cup sugar, 2^ tablespoons flour, i of Hood's 
eggs unbeaten, and i cup Hood's milk scalded. Cook in 
the double boiler 10 minutes, stirring constantly until 
the mixture thickens and afterwards occasionally. Cool, 
add a few grains salt and ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

June 20 

Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November i . 
Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Planked Chicken 

Prepare chicken as baked broiler chicken, refer to 
May 18. After cooking transfer to plank, spread with 
Hood's butter, surround with rice, and cook 10 minutes 
in a hot oven. 

Rice Border* Refer to May 3. 

Cucumber Salad 

Chill I cucumber, pare, mark lengthwise with a silver 
fork, then cut into thin slices, arrange on ^ head 
shredded lettuce, add a few drops onion juice, and pour 
over French dressing, refer to November 7. 



HOOD'S MILK 383 

Coffee Mousse* Refer to March 11. 
Cream Cakes* Prepared June 19. 

Jtifie 21 

Rice Muffins* Refer to February 4 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Baked Bean Salad 

Mix baked beans with boiled dressing, add a few- 
drops onion juice and arrange on lettuce leaves. 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 

Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 

Baked Tapioca Pudding* Refer to April 16. 

Cold Corned Beef* Refer to February 8. 

Mashed Turnips. Refer to November 6. 

Baked Potato Souffle 

Cut 4 baked potatoes in halves lengthwise, add 2 
tablespoons Hood's butter, the whites of 2 of Hood's 
eggs beaten stiff, season with salt, refill the skins, and 
bake about 8 minutes in a hot oven. 

June 22 

Wheat Cereal. Refer to November 2. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 



384 DAILY LIVING 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Potato Salad* Refer to November 19. 
Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Sliced Pineapple 

Cut a pineapple in slices, and with another knife pare 
and cut out the core. Put the slices of pineapple in a 
serving dish, sprinkling each layer with sugar, let stand 
2 hours before serving. 

Cold Corned Beef* Serve cold, refer to February 8. 
Delmonico Potatoes. Refer to January 7. 
Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 
Chocolate Sauce 

Mix Yt, cup sugar, ^ tablespoon cornstarch, add i 
square Baker's chocolate and % cup hot water. Stir 
until the chocolate is melted, then boil about 5 minutes 
or until the syrup is thick. 

Jtine 23 

Rice Muffins* Refer to February 4. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs, Refer to December 2. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Baked Macaroni* Refer to December 24. 

Pineapple and Strawberry Salad ' 

Cut pineapple in 'small pieces, and y^, box strawberries 
in slices, using a silver knife, arrange on shreded lettuce, 
and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



HOOD'S MILK 385 

Graham Scones 

Mix and sift i cup each graham and white flour, 4 
teaspoons baking powder, i teaspoon each salt and sugar, 
add y^ cup Hood's Hght cream gradually, and i of 
Hood's eggs well beaten. Mix, turn out on floured 
board, roll ^ inch in thickness, cut in 3 inch squares, 
put on an inverted buttered baking pan, brush over with 
Hood's milk, and bake about 12 minutes in a hot oven. 

Corned Beef and Green Pepper Hash 

Prepare corned beef hash, omitting onion, and adding 2 
green peppers, prepared, parboiled 5 minutes, and 
chopped fine, refer to February 10. 

Strawberry Cream* Refer to May 30. 

June 24 

Omelet* Refer to December 5. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Stuffed Peppers* Refer to May 26. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Currant Jelly 

Pick over currants, but do not remove from stems. 
Put a few in a granite preserving kettle and mash, and 
continue until the desired amount has been used. Cook 
slowly until the currants look dry, then drain through 
cheese cloth several hours. Measure the juice, bring to 
the boiling point, add an equal amount of granulated 
sugar, which has been heated in the oven, boil rapidly 



386 DAILY LIVING 

5 minutes, or until the mixture will jell when a Httle has 
been dropped on a cold plate. Turn into glasses, and 
set in a sunny place for 24 hours. 

Broiled Mackerel 

Wash and wipe a mackerel, put in frying pan, and pan 
broil, using enough Hood's butter to prevent the fish 
burning. When the fish is dry and flakes apart season 
with salt, and remove to platter. 

New Beets 

Put new beets in boiling salted water, and boil about 
I hour, or until the beets are soft. Drain, cover with 
cold water, and peel. 

Boiled Potatoes^ Refer to November 3. 

Baked Bananas* Refer to January 30. 

June 25 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Asparagus and Egg Salad 

Cook I bunch asparagus, arrange on lettuce leaves, 
garnish with 2 of Hood's eggs hard boiled and cut in 
slices, and salad dressing. 

Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Add y?. cup Hood's medium cream, beaten thick, to 
quick mayonnaise dressing, refer to December 8. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

Prepared June 6. 



HOOD'S MILK 387 



Baked Salmon 

Order i pound salmon cut in y^. inch slices, put in 
baking dish on strips of wet cheese cloth, season with 
salt, and bake about 20 minutes, or until the fish is dry 
and flakes apart. 

Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 

Refer to May 3 1 . 

June 26 

Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Meat Balls* Refer to December 22. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Banana Salad 

Arrange 4 sliced bananas on shredded lettuce and 
cover with 

Mayonnaise Dressing* Prepared June 25. 

Beans Baked with Onion 

Add I onion cut fine to beans, before baking, refer to 
November 7. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Baked Custards* Refer to November 7. 

June 27 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i. 



388 DAILY LIVING 

Coffee^ Refer to November i. 
Boiled Ham* Refer to April 20. 

Sweet Rice Croquettes 

Add % cup sugar to rice while cooking, and prepare 
as rice croquettes, refer to November 16. Shape in 
round balls, omitting currant jelly in the serving. 

Radish and Lettuce Salad* Refer to June 4. 

Cherry Pie 

Prepare pastry, and bake the filling between 2 crusts, 
using for filling i pint of cherries stoned, 3 tablespoons 
cold water, % cup sugar mixed with i tablespoon flour, 
and few grains salt. 

Lettuce Sandwiches 

Spread slices of bread with Hood's butter, and put 
together in pairs with a lettuce leaf between which has 
been sprinkled with salt. 

June 28 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Cheese Souffle* Refer to November 3. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Stewed Prunes* Refer to December 4. 
Sugar Cookies* Refer to November i. 
Broiled Ham* Refer to April 19. 



HOOD'S MILK 389 



Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i . 

Tomato Salad 

Cover tomatoes with boiling water, let stand 5 min- 
utes, then peel and slice. Chill, arrange on lettuce 
leaves, sprinkle with salt and garnish with dressing. 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

June 29 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Creamed Codfish 

Refer to April 24. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Vegetable Salad* Refer to June 3. 
Boiled Dressing* Prepared June 2^. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Jellied Prunes* Refer to December 5 . 
Sugar Cookies. Prepared June 28. 
Cold Ham* Refer to April 20. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Cottage Pudding* Refer to May 14. 
Hot Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

June 30 

Eggs and Ham Shirred 

Put I tablespoon Hood's light cream in each of 4 
individual baking dishes, then i of Hood's eggs in each 



390 DAILY LIVING 

dish, and 2 tablespoons finely chopped ham. Bake in a 
moderate oven until the egg is set, season with salt. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Creamed Vegetables* Refer to June 2. 

Sugar Cookies. Prepared June 28. 

Butter Gravy* Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Tapioca Cream. Refer to December 19. 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

H. P. Hood & Sons have always maintained the highest 
standard in the quaUty of their dairy products and sell milk, 
cream and butter at the lowest price for which a PURE, CLEAN 
and SAFE article can be put upon the market. 



HOOD'S MILK 



391 



Cost of I^iving for June 

June 1-8 June 8^15 



12 qts. milk $. 

10 half pt. jars light cream. . 
2 half pt. jars medium cream 

2 doz. eggs 

2^ lbs. butter, at 34 cts. 

% lb. full cream cheese 

1 cottage cheese 

Cereal and rye meal 

Corn meal 

Coffee 

Sugar » 

Flour 

3 qts. clams in shell 

Baking powder 

Spices and salt ... 

Molasses and vinegar 

Potatoes 

% tongue 

2 yeast cakes 

Tomato 

Rice 



I can peas .... 

I can string beans. . . 

Currant jelly 

I lb. swordfish 

Radishes 

Lettuce 

Oil 

Strawberries 

1 lb. rhubarb 

Saltfish 

Walnut meats 

Lard 

I doz. bananas , 

Shredded wheat 

Salt pork and beans. . 

4 lb. chicken 

Vegetables 

Ice and salt 

Maple syrup 

Rhubarb marmalade . 

Horseradish 

I lemon 

Crackers 

X lb. marshmallows , 

Total for week. 



1.08 

.70 

.20 

. .70 

. .85 

. .06 

. .05 

. .08 

. .04 

. .28 

. .18 

. .20 

.21 

.02 

.02 

. .02 

. .c8 

. .28 

. .04 

.02 

• -03 
. .18 

.18 

. .05 

•15 

• .05 
.05 

■ .05 

■ -30 
. .03 
. .10 
. .10 

• .05 
. .20 
. .04 
. .14 
. .80 

• .03 
. .05 
, .05 

. .05 

. .04 

. .02 

. .05 

. .08 

^7-98 



12 qts. milk $1 

2)4, lbs. butter 

9 j ars light cream 

2 doz. eggs 

yi lb. full cream cheese. . . 

Cottage cheese 

Cereal 

Flour 

Sugar 

Baking powder 

Spices and salt 

Potatoes 

2 bunches asparagus 

3 lbs. bluefish 

Tomatoes 

Rhubarb marmalade 

Peanuts 

Rye meal 

Coffee 

Vinegar 

Molasses 

Lettuce 

2 lbs. lower round 

Vanilla 

Corn meal 

3 boxes strawberries 

Oil 

Tapioca 

Shredded wheat 

I doz. bananas 

I lb. swordfish 

Rice 

Salt pork 

Codfish 

Graham flour 

Mackerel 

Beans 

Cornstarch , 

Chocolate 

5 lb. fowl 

Ice and salt 

I lemon 



.08 
.85 

.63 
.70 
.11 
.05 
.08 
.20 
.18 
.05 
.02 
.10 
•30 
•45 
.02 
.08 

•05 
.01 

•31 
•03 

.02 

•OS 
•30 
.02 
.02 

•45 

•OS 
.01 

.04 

.20 

•15 

.04 
.06 
.02 
•03 

•25 
.08 
.01 

•05 
•75 
■OS 
.02 



Total for week 57-97 



392 



DAILY LIVING 



June 1 5 -22 

12 qts, milk $i.o8 

2>^ lbs. butter 85 

2 doz. eggs 70 

Cottage cheese 05 

X lb. tull cream cheese 10 

% pt. jar medium cream 10 

7 half pint jars light cream. . .49 

Cereal 08 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Baking powder 03 

Parsley 01 

Spices and salt 02 

Asparagus 15 

Tomatoes 02 

3 yeast cakes 06 

Coffee 28 

Vinegar 01 

Vanilla 02 

Corn meal 02 

2 boxes strawberries 30 

Oil 05 

Tapioca 02 

Shredded wheat 04 

I doz. bananas 20 

Rice 03 

Rhubarb, i lb 03 

Potatoes 10 

Salt pork 04 

Codfish 03 

Graham flour .03 

Beans 08 

Ice and salt 04 

3 lbs. knuckle veal 36 

Vegetables 06 

Tea 02 

1 qt. hulled corn 12 

%, pk. peas 25 

2 lbs. salmon 60 

Lard 05 

2 lbs. schrod 24 

I lb. tripe 12 

Box currants 15 

23^ lbs. chicken, at 23 cts.. . .58 

Cucumber and lettuce 12 

Yz lb. crackers 05 

^ of 5 lbs. corn beef, 70 cts. .24 

Total for week 1^8.40 



June 22=30 

2% lbs. butter $1.19 

2 j4 doz. eggs 88 

14 qts. milk 1.26 

9 half pint jars light cream. . .63 

^ pt. jar medium cream 10 

^ lb. full cream cheese 11 

Cottage cheese 05 

1 qt. buttermilk 07 

Codfish and 3 yeast cakes. . . .10 

Potatoes ID 

Coffee 35 

Pineapple .15 

Vanilla 02 

Spices and salt 03 

Baking powder and rice 08 

% of corned beef 46 

Chocolate and cereal 11 

2 boxes strawberries 30 

Macaroni 03 

6 peppers 25 

Graham flour. ... 02 

Mackerel and beets 30 

Bananas 20 

Shredded wheat 08 

Oil 05 

Rhubarb marmalade 04 

I lb. salmon 30 

Bunch asparagus 15 

1 lb. lower round 15 

Corn meal 02 

Beans and pork 12 

Rye meal and molasses 03 

Sugar and flour 49 

5 lbs. ham 70 

Currant jelly 05 

Lard 05 

Radishes 05 

2 heads lettuce 10 

I pt. cherries 10 

I lb. prunes 12 

Tomatoes 10 

Vinegar 03 

Can peas and can beans 36 

I lb swordfish 15 

Tapioca .01 

Total for week ^10.04 

Total for month $34-39 



HOOD'S MILK 



393 



LoMrering 

June 1-8 

8 jars light cream ^0.56 

Coffee 28 

2 jars medium cream 20 

Currant jelly. 05 

Radishes 05 

Maple syrup 05 

Rhubarb marmalade 05 

Horseradish (serve chicken 

sliced) 05 

Marshmallows 08 



Total for week $^-37 



June 8 'IS 

8 jars light cream ^0.56 

Coffee 31 

I bunch asparagus 15 

Rhubarb marmalade 08 

Chocolate 05 

I box strawberries 15 

Total for week 1 1-30 



tHe Cost 

June I5'22 

Coffee ;j;o.28 

7 jars light cream 49 

I yeast cake, omitting potato 

balls 04 

Tea 02 

Use 2 lbs. halibut, 40 cts., in 

place of salmon, 60 cts.. „20 

Cucumber 07 

Use 2 lbs. baked bluefish, 30 

cts., in place of chicken, 

58 cts 28 

Total for week $1-2,^ 



June 22-30 

I lb. coffee ^0.35 

9 half pt. jars light cream. . . .62, 

I qt. buttermilk 07 

Chocolate 03 

Beets 05 

Rhubarb marmalade 04 

Use I lb. cod steak, 15 cts., 

in place of salmon, 30 

cts.. 15 

Currant jelly 05 

Radishes 05 

Omit asparagus, 15 cts., use 

potatoes, 2 cts 13 

Omit 6 peppers, 25 cts., use 

macaroni, 3 cts 22 

Total for week $^-77 

Total for month $5.82 



394 DAILY LIVING 



Ladies^ Four Course Luncheon 



Clam Bouillon^ Refer to June i. 

French Fried Potato Balls. Refer to May 21. 

Brown Sauce. Refer to April 13. 

Fillet of Beef 

Prepare the fillet for serving and lard with salt pork. 
Dredge with flour and bake about Y^, hour, basting 
frequently. Season with salt when half cooked. Serve 
with peas, carrots cut in strips, potato balls and brown 
sauce. 

Lobster Salad 

Remove the meat from a 2 pound lobster, chop fine, 
and mix with an equal amount of finely cut celery. 
Arrange on lettuce leaves and garnish with 

Mayonnaise Dressing. Refer to December 8. 

Cafe Parfait 

Boil I cup sugar and ^ cup black coffee to the 
thread degree, and make a custard using the yolks of 6 
of Hood's eggs. When cold add i pint of Hood's 
heavy cream whipped solid with Yr cup black coffee. 
Pack in mould and let stand 4 hours in ice and salt. 

Small Angel Cakes. Refer to March 1 7. 



Clear Soup Stock 

Cut 4 pounds of shin bone in small pieces and brown 
Yz of it in a little marrow, from the marrowbone. To 
the remainder of the meat add 4 pints of cold water 
and let stand Y^ hour ; add the browned meat ; bring 
slowly to the boiling point and let simmer about 3 



HOOD'S MILK 395 



hours ; then add i y^ tablespoons each carrot, turnip, 
onion and celery, i ^ teaspoons salt, 4 cloves, y^ bay- 
leaf, a sprig of parsley,, i ^ teaspoons sweet herbs ; let 
simmer i hour longer ; strain, cool, and clear, allowing 
the white and shell of i ^^'g for each quart of stock. 

Croutons of Bread* Refer to November 5. 

Lobster Cutlets 

To each cup chopped lobster meat add }{ teaspoon 
salt, few grains cayenne and nutmeg, ^ teaspoon each 
lemon juice and finely chopped parsley, yolk of i of 
Hood's eggs and ^ cup scant of white sauce made of 
^ cup Hood's milk, \}{ tablespoons butter and 2 table- 
spoons cornstarch ; cool, dip in crumbs, ^gg and crumbs, 
fry in deep fat and drain. Serve with 

Sauce Tartare. Refer to January 1 5 

Luncheon Rolls. Refer to May 1 1 

Stewed Mushrooms 

Saute the mushrooms broken in small pieces in a little 
of Hood's butter. Add Hood's light cream to more 
than half cover mushrooms, and cook very gently for 20 
minutes. 

Puff Paste Patties 

Prepare as pastry, refer to November 9, using i cup 
Hood's butter washed and 2 cups flour. Roll out ^ 
inch in thickness and cut out as tarts, refer to December 
26. Bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Black Coffee 

Double the amount of coffee used in preparing break- 
fast coffee, refer to November i. 

Cheese and Jelly. Refer to November 5 . 



3g6 DAILY LIVING 

Memoranda 




z 
cc 

UJ 

Q 
CC 
< 

UJ 

O 

I 



Month of July 



Afternoon Tea Serving 



In serving afternoon teas, the arrangement should be 
as simple as possible. The serving should be dainty 
rather than elaborate. In serving tea or chocolate, the 
cup should never be filled more than two thirds full. 
The spoon should be placed in the saucer at the right of 
the cup with the handle of the spoon placed in the same 
direction as the handle of the cup. In passing, the 
handle of the cup and the spoon should face the one to 
whom the cup and saucer is served. 

Chocolate is better prepared several hours before serv- 
ing time and then reheated. 

Tea should be freshly made, and served very hot or 
else ice cold. 

Sandwiches may be prepared several hours before, 
serving time and wrapped in a cloth wrung dry out of 
hot water. If tied with a ribbon, do not tie until serv- 
ing time. The sandwich rolled, and wrapped in a wet 
cloth will hold in shape. For a formal serving crackers 
serve better and sandwiches with a cream filling should 
be avoided. 

The informal serving even admits of a light fruit 
salad, buttered muffins, toasted bread and marmalade, 
which are desirable only when the guests are seated. 
Small cakes or cookies serve better than cut cake. 



399 



400 DAILY LIVING 

July I 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Potatoes 

White Muffins Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Supper 

Stewed Asparagus Toasted Bread 

Buttermilk Hot Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Baked Mackerel Buttered Potatoes 

Pickled Beets Tapioca Cream 



July 2 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Baked Potatoes 

Creamed Codfish Coffee 

L'tincHeon or Stipper 

Banana and Walnut Salad French Dressing 

Buttermilk Rolls Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner 

Broiled Bluefish Creamed Potatoes 

Ginger Cakes Whipped Cream 



July 3 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Bananas 

Reheated Buttermilk Rolls Coffee 

Dinner or L'tincHeon 

Bluefish and Egg Salad 
Boiled Dressing Hot Biscuit 

Raspberries with Medium Cream 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread Lemon Filled Cake 



HOOD'S MILK 401 



July 4 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Bananas Coffee 

Dinner 

Steamed Salmon 
Salad Dressing Sauce New Boiled Potatoes 

Green Peas Strawberry Ice Cream 

Angel Cakes 

Tea 

Crackers Hood's Milk 

Ice Cream Angel Cakes 



July 5 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Baked Bean Salad Toasted Brown Bread 

Lemon Filled Cake Iced Tea 

Dinner 

Creamed Salmon and Peas Toasted Bread 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 



July 6 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Milk Toast Coffee 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Cheese Souffle Hot Biscuit 

Milk Sherbet Cake 

Dinner 

Salt Fish with Salt Pork 

Boiled Potatoes Butter Gravy 

New Beets Milk Sherbet 



402 DAILY LIVING 

July 7 

BreaRfast 

Corn Flakes Hashed Fish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LtxiicHeoii or Supper 

Rice with Cheese Rhubarb Marmalade 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Baked Flounders New Potatoes 

Salad Dressing Sauce Cherry Pie 



July 8 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Potatoes 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Supper 

Creamed Asparagus Toasted Bread 

Cheese and Jelly Crackers 

Dinner 

Broiled Finnan Haddie 
Mashed Potatoes Raspberry Shortcake 



July 9 

BreaKfast 

Grape Nuts Potato Puff 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Asparagus Omelet Toasted English Muffins 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

Dinner 

Asparagus Soup Fish Hash 

Pickled Beets Bread and Butter 



HOOD'S MILK 403 



July 10 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Toasted English Muffins 

Bananas Coffee 

Dinner or L-uncKeon 

Tripe with Brown Sauce Hot Biscuit 

Baked Cherry Pudding Custard Sauce 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans with Olive Oil Brown Bread 

Sour Cream Cookies 



July n 



BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Bananas Coffee 

Pressed Chicken 
Potato Salad Boiled Dressing 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Tea 

Crackers Hood's Milk 

Ice Cream Cookies 



July 12 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Bananas Coffee 

LuncKeon or St&pper 

Cold Baked Beans 

Brown Bread and Lettuce Sandwiches 

Cookies Rhubarb Marmalade 

Dinner 

Pressed Chicken Salad 

Boiled Dressing Toasted Bread 

Rice Pudding 



404 DAILY LIVING 

July 13 

BresiRfast 

Shredded Wheat with Creamed Codfish Coffee 

LrUYicKeon or Supper 

Left Over Chicken Soup with Rice 
Hot, Biscuit Hot Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Baked Bluefish with Egg Sauce 
Boiled Potatoes Currant Pie 



July 14 

BreaRfast 

Corn Flakes Red Currants 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L'tinclieon or Supper 

Creamed Potatoes with Cheese Cold Gingerbread 
Red Raspberries 

Dinner 

Bluefish Souffle Spider Corn Cake 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 



July 15 



BreaRfast 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit Bananas 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Supper 

Cheese Milk Toast Rhubarb Marmalade 

Dinner 

Flounders Stuffed with Mashed Potatoes 
Boiled Onions Chocolate Tapioca Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 



405 



July 16 



BresiKfsist 

Corn Flakes Potato Puff 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LtmcHeon or Supper 

Banana and Nut Salad Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Red Raspberries Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Delmonico Finnan Haddie Baking Powder Biscuit 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 



July M 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Bananas 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LuncHeon or Dinner 

Salt Fish Chowder Health Biscuit 

Lettuce and Walnut Salad French Dressing 

Dinner or Stipper 

Beans Baked with Cream 
Health Bread Sour Milk Gingerbread 



July \Z 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Health Bread 

Coffee 

Cold Boiled Tongue 
Steamed Rice French Spinach 

Maple Ice Cream 

Tea 

Hood's Milk Crackers 



4o6 DAILY LIVING 

July 19 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Rice Muffins 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs Coffee 

L'tmcHeoii or Supper 

Cold Baked Beans Bread and Butter 

Buttermilk Coffee Bread 

Dinner 

Cold Boiled Tongue 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Turnips 

Blackberry Shortcake 



July 20 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Fried Potato Cakes 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tintcKeofi or Supper 

Cheese Omelet W^hite Sauce 

Bread and Butter Coffee Bread 

Red Raspberries Whipped Cream 

Dinner 

Tongue and Beet Hash Hot Raised Muffins 

Cottage Cheese and Jelly 



July 21 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Scrambled Eggs on Toasted Bread 

Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Supper 

Broiled Tomatoes Bread and Butter Baked Custards 

Dinner 

Baked Mackerel Buttered Potatoes 

Cream Sponge Pie Cream Filling 



HOOD'S MILK 407 

July 22 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Potatoes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

L-tmcKeork or Stipper 

Cream Toast Rhubarb Marmalade Cream Cakes 

Dinner 

Baked Swordfish 

Boiled Potatoes Butter Gravy 

Cucumber and Green Pepper Salad 

Bread and Butter French Dressing 



July 23 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Blueberry Griddle Cakes Coffee 

LftincHeon or Stipper 

Cream Fish and Potatoes Blueberry Muffins 

Cream Cakes 

Dinner 

Baked Stuffed Haddock Boiled Potatoes 

Hollandaise Sauce with Vinegar Coffee Mousse 



July 24 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Broiled Potatoes 

Broiled Salt Fish Coffee 

Dinner or LuncHeon 

Scalloped Fish 
Hot Biscuit Blueberry Pudding 

Custard Sauce 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans with Butter Baked Brown Bread 

Cup Custards 



4o8 DAILY LIVING 

July 1^ 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Cold Braised Fowl Gravy 

String Beans Steamed Rice 

Raspberry Sherbet 

Tea 

Crackers Hood's Milk Raspberry Sherbet 



July 26 



BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Rice Muffins Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Sxipper 

Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Sliced Pineapple Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Cold Braised Fowl Gravy Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed String Beans Cheese and Jelly 

Crackers 



July 27 



BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Coffee 

Fried Potato Cakes Graham Muffins 

LuncKeon or Stopper 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 
Hot Biscuit Pineapple and Nut Salad 

French Dressing 

Dinner 

Chicken Stew with Dumplings Cream Jelly 

Bu.ter Cake Confectioner's Frosting 



HOOD'S MILK 409 



July 28 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Bananas Toasted Bread 

Coffee 

LfUncHeon or Supper 

Green Peas with Cream Bread and Butter 

Cake Iced Tea 

Dinner 

Baked Bluefish Tomato Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes Blueberry Pie 



July 29 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L'ti.ncKeon or Supper 

Cheese Potato Puff 
Sliced Bananas Bread and Butter 

Cake 

Dinner 

Broiled Bluefish Baking Powder Biscuit 

Pickled Beets Custard Pie 



July 30 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Bananas 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Eggs Baked in Tomatoes Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit 

Cottage Cheese Crackers 

Dinner 

Baked Fillets Halibut 

Creamed Potato Balls Apple Rice Pudding 



410 DAILY LIVING 



July 31 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Blueberry Griddle Cakes Coffee 

Dinner or I^tincHeon 

Oven Broiled Forequarter Chops 
Hashed Brown Potatoes Hot Biscuit 

Blueberries 

Dinner or Stipper 

Baked Beans with Butter Brown Bread Baked 

One Crust Apple Pie 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" Do not leave uncovered milk in an ice box with strong scented 
foods, as it absorbs odors readily. The refrigerator should be 
clean and sweet.'''' 

State Board of Agriculture, Nature Leaflet No. 4.0. 



HOOD'S MILK 411 

Jtily 1 

Creamed Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 

White Muffins* Refer to November 17. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Stewed Asparagus with Melted Butter 
Refer to June 14. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Hot Gingerbread* Refer to November 3 . 

Hood's Buttermilk 

Serve to each one a glass of Hood's fresh buttermilk 
cold. 

Baked Mackerel* Refer to June 12. 

Buttered Potatoes* Refer to January 19. 

Pickled Beets* Refer to January 23. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19. 

July 2 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Banana and Walnut Salad 

Add y^ cup nut meats to banana and lettuce salad, 
refer to February 3. 



412 DAILY LIVING 

Buttermilk Rolls* Refer to February 26. 
Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5 . 

Broiled Bluefish 

Broil 3 pounds bluefish, as broiled cod steak, refer to 
April 10. 

Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Ginger Cakes* Refer to November 4. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Jtily 3 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 

Reheated Buttermilk Rolls 

Refer to reheated baking powder biscuit, November 
12. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Bluefish and Egg Salad 

Flake left over bluefish in small pieces, arrange on 
lettuce leaves, cover with ^ the recipe boiled dressing, 
and garnish with 2 of Hood's eggs hard boiled and cut 
in slices. 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Raspberries with Medium Cream 

Pick over and wash the raspberries, using i pint, 
serve with sugar, and ^ cup Hood's medium cream, 
unwhipped. 



HOOD'S MILK 413 



Baked Beans^ Refer to November 7. 
Brown Bread. Refer to November 7. 
Lemon Filled Cake 

Bake butter cake, refer to November 11, and split 
while warm. Spread the lower half with lemon filling, 
using the juice of i lemon and 2 tablespoons cold water 
in place of orange juice in orange filling, refer to Feb- 
ruary 9. Fit on the upper half of cake and press 
together. 

July 4 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Steamed Salmon 

Put 2 pounds salmon in steamer placed over hot 
water, and steam 45 to 60 minutes or until the fish is 
dry and flakes apart. Remove to platter, take off the 
skin and season fish with salt. 

Salad Dressing Sauce 

Mix the yolks of 3 of Hood's eggs, y^ teaspoon each 
mustard and salt, i tablespoon sugar, add 2 tablespoons 
Hood's butter, ^ cup Hood's milk, and very slowly 5 
tablespoons vinegar. Cook over hot water until thick 
and smooth. 

New Potatoes 

Cook new potatoes in boiling salted water without 
paring. When soft, drain and peel. 

Green Peas* Refer to June 17. 



414 DAILY LIVING 

Strawberry Ice Cream. Refer to June 13. 
Angel Cakes^ Refer to March 17. 

July 5 

Hashed Brown Potatoes^ Refer to December 24. 
Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Baked Bean Salad* Refer to June 21. 
Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 
Lemon Filled Cake* Prepared July 3. 

Iced Tea 

Refer to June 16, omitting the lemon and using 4 
cloves. 

Creamed Salmon and Peas 

Flake left over salmon and arrange on a platter, re- 
heat in the oven, and pour over the fish creamed peas, 
refer to February 1 5 . 

Toasted Bread 

Refer to November i. 

Old Fashioned Strawberry Shortcake 

Refer to May 3 1 . 

July 6 

Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Cheese Souffle* Refer to November 3. 



HOOD'S MILK 415 



Hot Biscuits Refer to November 7. 

Milk Sherbett Refer to November 8. 

Cake* Prepared June 3. 

Salt Fish with Salt Pork* Refer to March 26. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Butter Gravy. Refer to November 3. 

New Beets with Dressing 

Mix 2 tablespoons each oil and vinegar and pour over 
boiled beets. 

July 7 

Hashed Fish* Refer to November 14. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Rice with Cheese* Refer to December 4. 
Rhubarb Marmalade* Prepared June 6. 
Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

Baked Flounders 

Lay 2 pounds flounder skinned and boned in a baking 
dish, season with salt, pour over % cup Hood's milk, 
and bake about 10 minutes in a hot oven. 

New Potatoes* Refer to July 4. 

Salad Dressing Sauce* Prepared July 4. 

Cherry Pie* Refer to June 27. 



4i6 DAILY LIVING 

July 8 

Creamed Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 
Graham Muffins. Refer to November 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Creamed Asparagus 

Cook I bunch asparagus, cut in small pieces, drain, 
and add to white sauce, refer to November 6. Serve on 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Cheese and Jelly. Refer to November 5. 

Broiled Finnan Haddie 

Soak finnan haddie as for baked finnan haddie, refer 
to November 20, drain, and broil over a clear fire or 
under the gas flame 15 minutes. Remove to platter, 
and spread with 2 tablespoons Hood's butter. 

Mashed Potatoes 
Refer to November i. 

Raspberry Shortcake 

Use raspberries in place of strawberries in shortcake, 
refer to May 16. 

Jtily 9 

Grapenuts 

Pour the top of the milk over i tablespoon grapenuts 
for each service. 

Potato Puff. Refer to January 25. 

Rye Muffins. Refer to November 7. 

Coffee. Refer to November i . 



HOOD'S MILK 417 



Asparagus Omelet 

Prepare as fish omelet, refer to March 18, using y^ 
bunch asparagus, cut in small pieces and boiled, in place 
of fish. 

Toasted English Muffins^ Refer to January 28. 
Rhubarb Marmalade^ Refer to June 6. 

Asparagus Soup 

Use i^ bunch cooked asparagus in place of peas in 
cream of pea soup, refer to February 25. 

Fish Hash* Refer to February 26. 

Pickled Beets* Refer to January 23. 

July 10 

Toasted English Muffins* Refer to January 28. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Tripe with Brown Sauce 

Cook as broiled tripe, refer to January 21, and prepare 
a brown sauce with the butter, refer to April 13, and 
pour over the tripe. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Baked Cherry Pudding 

Stone I pint cherries, put in baking dish, sweeten, add 
% teaspoon cinnamon, and cover with a crust prepared 
as baking powder biscuit, refer to November 2. Bake 
y^ hour in a moderate oven. Serve with 

Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

Beans with Olive Oil* Refer to May i. 



4i8 DAILY LIVING 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Sour Cream Cookies 

Cream ^ cup Hood's butter, add gradually i cup 
sugar, and i of Hood's eggs, well beaten, then add ^ 
cup Hood's medium cream which has been soured, and 
mixed with % teaspoon sifted soda, then add 2% cups 
flour, sifted with 3^ teaspoons baking powder. Drop 
from a spoon onto buttered sheets and bake in a moder- 
ate oven about 10 minutes. 

Jtily 11 

Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November I. 
Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Pressed Chicken 

Cook a 4 pound fowl in 2 quarts water until tender, 
and cooked from the bones, season with salt, cut from 
the bones and chop fine, moisten with the stock, which 
has been boiled until i quart is reduced to i cup, season 
with salt, pack into a bread tin and press with another 
tin placed on top in which is a weight. 

Potato Salad* Refer to November 19. 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

Use I cup cold coffee in place of i cup milk in pre- 
paring custard, refer to March 7. 

Sour Cream Cookies 

Prepared July 10. 



HOOD'S MILK 



419 



July 12 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Cold Baked Beans 

Serve baked beans without reheating. 

Brown Bread and Lettuce Sandwiches 

Cut brown bread in ^ inch shoes, spread with Hood's 
butter, and put together in pairs with a lettuce leaf be- 
tween, sprinkled with salt. 

Cookies* Prepared July 10. 

Rhubarb Marmalade* Prepared June 6. 

Pressed Chicken Salad 

Cut cold pressed chicken in 3^ inch cubes, arrange on 
shredded lettuce, and garnish with 

Boiled Dressing* Prepared July 11. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 

July 13 

Shredded Wheat with Creamed Codfish 

Refer to April 24. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Left Over Chicken Soup with Rice 

Put the bones from which the meat has been cut in a 
saucepan, cover with cold water, and simmer 2 hours. 



420 DAILY LIVING 

Strain, cut the small pieces of meat from the bones, add 
to the water in which the bones were simmered, then 
add the left over chicken stock and ^ cup washed rice. 
Boil until the rice is soft, then season with salt. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Hot Gingerbread* Refer to November 3. 

Baked Bluefish with Egg Sauce 

Bake bluefish as haddock baked with salt pork, refer 
to November 1 3, and serve with Qgg sauce, refer to June 

17. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Currant Pie 

Use I }4 cups currants in place of rhubarb and prepare 
as rhubarb pie, refer to April 12. 

July 14 

Red Currants* Refer to June 19. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Creamed Potatoes with Cheese 

Prepare creamed potatoes, refer to November 4, and 
add y3 cup Hood's full cream cheese grated. 

Cold Gingerbread 

Bake the recipe of gingerbread in a large sheet, and 
serve half of the gingerbread, cold and cut in squares. 

Red Raspberries 

Serve raspberries sprinkled with sugar. 



HOOD'S MILK 421 



Bluefish Souffle 

Prepare as fish souffle, refer to January 9, using the 
left over bluefish. 

Spider Corn Cake* Refer to March 22. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mangev Refer to February 10. 

July 15 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Cheese Milk Toast 

Add y^, cup Hood's full cream cheese grated to sauce 
for milk toast, refer to December 27. 

Rhubarb Marmalade* Prepared June 6. 

Flounders Stuffed with Mashed Potatoes 

Order 2 pounds flounder skinned and boned. Lay on 
the lower half each fillet of flounder mashed potatoes, 
fold the upper half over it, lay in baking pan, season 
with salt, and half cover with Hood's milk. Bake about 
15 minutes in a moderate oven. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Chocolate Tapioca Cream 

Add I square melted chocolate to tapioca cream, refer 
to December 19. 

Jtily 16 

Potato Puff* Refer to January 25. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 



422 DAILY LIVING 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Banana and Nut Salad* " Refer to July 12. 

Quick Mayonnaise Dressing 

Refer to December 8. 

Red Raspberries* Refer to July 14. 

Delmonico Finnan Haddie 

Prepare creamed finnan haddie, refer to November 21, 
put in baking dish, cover with y^ cup buttered crumbs, 
and reheat in a hot oven. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. Refer to November 2. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

Add I cup molasses to i cup Hood's milk which has 
been soured. Mix and sift i ^ cups flour with 2 tea- 
spoons soda, I teaspoon each salt and ginger, add to the 
first mixture, beat well, add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter 
melted, and bake about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

July 17 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Salt Fish Chowder 

Use ^ pound salt codfish cut in small pieces in place 
of the corn and prepare as corn chowder, refer to 
December 11. 

Health Biscuit 

Add 2 cups of Hood's milk scalded to i cup of cooked 
oatmeal, let stand until lukewarm, then add i tablespoon 
each sugar, molasses, and teaspoon salt, add i yeast 



HOOD'S MILK 423 

cake dissolved in % cup lukewarm water, 4 cups entire 
wheat flour, and enough white flour to knead. Knead 
well, let rise until double in bulk, knead again, shape a 
part as biscuit, and the remainder as bread, let rise 
again. Bake the biscuit on an inverted pan 25 minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

Lettuce and Walnut Salad* Refer to April 13. 
French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 
Beans Baked with Cream* Refer to June 5. 

Health Bread 

Bake bread, prepared above, i hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

Prepared July 16. 

Jtily 18 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Toasted Health Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Cold Boiled Tongue* Refer to May 30. 
Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

French Spinach 

Cook spinach as boiled spinach, refer to February 2, 
drain, chop finely, add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter and 
^2, cup Hood's milk, season with salt and reheat. 
Mound on a dish and garnish with i of Hood's eggs 
hard boiled, then with the white finely chopped and the 
yolk rubbed through a strainer. 



424 DAILY LIVING 

Maple Ice Cream 

Use Yz cup maple syrup in place of sugar and omit 
vanilla, in vanilla ice cream, refer to November i . 

July 19 

Rice Muffins* Refer to February 4. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs» Refer to December 2. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Cold Baked Beans* Refer to July 12. 

Coffee Bread 

Scald I cup Hood's milk, add Yi cup Hood's butter, 
% cup sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon cinnamon. 
When lukewarm add i yeast cake dissolved in }{ cup 
lukewarm water, and i >^ cups flour. When well risen 
add 2 of Hood's eggs well beaten and enough flour to 
make a stiff batter, about 2 cups more, let rise again, 
turn into 2 bread tins and again let rise. Brush over 
with Hood's milk and sprinkle with sugar and chopped 
walnuts. Bake about Y^ hour in a moderate oven. 

Cold Boiled Tongue* Prepared July 18. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I . 

Creamed Turnips* Refer to December 16. 

Blackberry Shortcake 

Use blackberries in place of strawberries and prepare 
as strawberry shortcake, refer to May 16. 

July 20 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i , 



HOOD'S MILK 425 



Cheese Omelet 

Use 3 eggs and y^, cup Hood's full cream cheese 
grated, in place of bread and prepare as bread omelet, 
refer to March 3. 

White Sauce^ Refer to November 6. 

Coffee Breads Prepared July 19. 

Red Raspberries* Refer to July 14. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Tongue and Beet Hash 

Chop the left over cold boiled tongue fine, add 5 small 
cold boiled beets chopped fine, season with salt, and 
moisten with Hood's milk, melt 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter in a frying pan, turn in the hash and brown 
slowly. Then turn and fold on to platter. 

Hot Raised Muffins* Refer to January 16. 

Cottage Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5. 

July 21 

Scrambled Eggs on Toasted Bread 

Prepare scrambled eggs, refer to November 4, dip 
slices of toasted bread in Hood's milk and arrange the 
eggs on the toasted bread. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Broiled Tomatoes 

Cut small tomatoes in halves without peeling, pan 
broil, using Hood's butter, until soft, turning frequently. 
Remove to serving dish and sprinkle with salt. 

Baked Custards* Refer to November 7. 



426 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Mackerel Refer to June 12. 

Cream Sponge Pie 

Prepare ^ the recipe of jelly roll, refer to June 2. 
Bake in 2 round cake tins about 15 minutes, remove 
from the tins and when cold fill with 

Cream Fillings Refer to June 19. 

July 22 

Creamed Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Rye Muffins^ Refer to November 7. 
Coffee^ Refer to November i. 

Cream Toast 

Toast slices of bread and butter, lay on platter, and 
pour over the bread i cup Hood's light cream, put in 
oven and let stand until heated and softened. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

Prepared June 6. 

Cream Cakes 

Use left over cream filling for cream cakes, refer to 
June 19. 

Baked Swordfish. Refer to June 2. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Butter Gravy* Refer to November 3. 

Cucumber and Green Pepper Salad 

Prepare lettuce and green pepper salad, refer to May 
23, and add i cucumber sliced fine. Serve with 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 



HOOD'S MILK 427 



Jtily 23 

Blueberry Griddle Cakes 

Add % cup blueberries picked over and rinsed to 
sweet milk griddle cakes, refer to January i. 

Cream Fish and Potatoes* Refer to June 3. 

Blueberry Muffins 

Add ^ cup blueberries washed and drained to white 
muffins, refer to November 17. 

Cream Cakes* Prepared July 22. 

Baked Stuffed Haddock* Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

HoUandaise Sauc^ with Vinegar 

Use I tablespoon vinegar in place of lemon juice in 
HoUandaise sauce, refer to March 4. 

Coffee Mousse 
Refer to March 1 1 , 

July 24 

Broiled Potatoes* Refer to January 26. 

Broiled Salt Fish* Refer to June 4. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Scalloped Fish* Refer to November 11. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Blueberry Pudding 

Pick over and rinse i box blueberries, put in baking 
dish, add y^ cup sugar, and cover with ]4, recipe baking 



428 DAILY LIVING 

powder biscuit, refer to November 2. Bake about 45 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with 

Hot Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

Baked Beans with Butter 

Use 3 tablespoons Hood's butter in place of salt pork 
in baked beans, refer to November 7. 

Baked Brown Bread 

Put mould holding brown bread in a pan of hot water, 
cover with another pan, and bake 4 hours in the oven. 

Cup Custards* Refer to November 7. 

Jtily 25 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Cold Braised Fowl 

Omit vegetables, and prepare as pot roast, refer to 
December 6. Serve sliced cold. 

Gravy- 
Refer to November 8. 

String Beans 

Remove the strings from 2 quarts string beans and 
break in inch pieces, cover with boiling water, add i tea- 
spoon salt, and boil until tender, drain and add 2 table- 
spoons Hood's butter. 

Steamed Rice 

Refer to November 4. 



HOOD'S MILK 429 



Raspberry Sherbet 

Use I pint raspberries rubbed through a strainer in 
place of lemons and prepare as lemon sherbet, refer to 
April 25. 

July 26 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 
Rice Muffins* Refer to February 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Sliced Pineapple* Refer to June 22. 
Cold Braised Fowl* Prepared July 25. 
Gravy* Prepared July 25. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 

Creamed String Beans 

Use left over string beans in place of peas, and pre- 
pare as peas creamed, refer to February 15. 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5. 

Jtily 27 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 

Baked Macaroni and Cheese 

Refer to December 24. 



430 DAILY LIVING 

Hot Biscuit 

Refer to November 7. 

Pineapple and Nut Salad 

Use ys cup walnut meats broken in pieces in place of 
strawberries, and prepare as pineapple and strawberry 
salad, refer to June 23. Serve with 

French Dressing 

Refer to November 7. 

Chicken Stew with Dumplings 

Refer to December 21, and serve with dumplings, re- 
fer to December 21. 

Cream Jelly 

Add j{ cup cold water to i}4 tablespoons granulated 
gelatin dissolved in i cup Hood's milk scalded, add }4 
cup Hood's medium cream, ys cup sugar, and i teaspoon 
vanilla. Stir occasionally until the mixture begins to 
thicken, then mould and chill. 

Butter Cake* Refer to November 1 1 . 

Confectioner's Frosting* Refer to May 5. 

July 28 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Green Peas with Cream 

Shell and boil 2 quarts green peas, drain, season with 
salt, add }4 cup Hood's medium cream, and j4 cup 
Hood's milk, or i cup Hood's light cream, and reheat. 



HOOD'S MILK 431 



Cake^ Prepared July 27. 
Iced Tea* Refer to July 5. 

Baked Bluefish 

Order 3 pounds bluefish and prepare yi as baked 
bluefish, refer to July 13. 

Tomato Sauce. Refer to December 1 2. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 

Blueberry Pie 

Use I box blueberries and prepare as cherry pie, refer 
to June 27. 

July 29 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Cheese Potato Puff 

Add ^ cup Hood's full cream cheese grated to the 
potato, and prepare as potato puff, refer to January 25. 

Sliced Bananas* Omit nuts, refer to January 29. 

Cake* Prepared July 27. 

Broiled Bluefish* Refer to July 2. 

Creamed Potato Balls 

Prepare 2 cups potato balls, refer to November 6, 
season with salt. 



432 DAILY LIVING 

Baking Powder Biscuit Refer to November 2. 
Pickled Beets* Refer to January 23. 
Custard Pie* Refer to January 30. 

July 30 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Eggs Baked in Tomato 

Cut a slice from the stem end of 4 large tomatoes, 
scoop out the centre, season with salt, and slip in each 
one, I of Hood's eggs. Put in baking dish and bake 
about 10 minutes in a moderate oven, or until the 
tomato is soft and the white of the Qgg is set. 

Reheated Baking Powder Biscuit 
Refer to November 12. 

Baked Fillets Halibut* Refer to November 25. 

Creamed Potato Balls 

Prepare 2 cups potato balls, refer to January 17, re- 
heat in white sauce, refer to November 6, season with 
salt. 

Apple Rice Pudding 

Pare, core, and cut 3 apples in 8 pieces each, lay in 
baking dish, and pour over rice pudding and bake, refer 
to December 14. 

Jtily 31 

Blueberry Griddle Cakes* Refer to July 23. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 433 



Oven Broiled Forequarter Chops 

Wipe chops, put in baking pan, and cook about lo 
minutes in a hot oven, turning once. Remove to platter 
and season with salt. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes^ Refer to December 24. 

Hot Biscuit. Refer to November 7. 

Blueberries 

Pick over and rinse i box blueberries, put in serving 
dish, and serve with sugar, and Hood's light cream if 
desired. 

Baked Beans with Butter^ Refer to July 24. 

Brown Bread Baked* Refer to July 24. 

One Crust Apple Pie 

Omit under crust, and prepare as apple pie, refer to 
January 1 1 . 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" Do not mix milk that has been taken from the ice box, and left 
outside until warm, with milk remaining in the ice box ; if you do, 
the keeping quality of the mixture will be shortened. " 

State Board of Agriculture, Nature Leaflet No. 40. 



434 



DAILY LIVING 



Cost of Living for Ju,ly 



July 1=8 

12 qts. milk $i 

2}^ lbs. butter 

9 half pint jars light cream. . 

Jar medium cream 

I qt. buttermilk 

Cottage cheese 

^ lb. full cream cheese 

1 Yz doz. eggs 

Cereal 

Potatoes 

Flour 

Sugar 

Spices and salt 

Baking powder 

Asparagus 

2 yeast cakes 

Mackerel 

Molasses 

Tapioca 

Vanilla 

Codfish 

Coffee 

1 doz. bananas 

Walnuts 

Lettuce 

Oil 

Jelly 

Vinegar 

3 lbs. bluefish 

Shredded wheat 

Raspberries 

Beans 

Rye and Indian meal 

Pork 

4 lemons 

Pt. cherries 

2 lbs. salmon 

y^ pk. peas 

Lard 

2 boxes strawberries 

Ice and salt 

Crackers and tea 

Beets and rice 

Rhubarb marmalade 

2 lbs. flounder 



.08 
.85 

•63 
.10 

.07 

•05 
.11 

'53 

•05 
.10 
.20 
.24 
.02 
.04 

•15 

,04 

•25 
•03 
.01 

.02 
.10 

.28 
.20 

•05 
•05 
•05 
.04 
.02 

•38 
■04 

•15 

.08 
.02 
.04 
.08 
.10 

•50 
•25 
.02 

•30 
.08 
.12 

.13 

.04 

•30 



Total for week ^7.98 



July 8-15 

13 qts. milk Ji.i? 

9 half pint jars light cream. . .63 

yz pt. jar medium cream 10 

lYz doz. eggs 53 

Cottage cheese 05 

j^ lb. full cream cheese 11 

2% lbs. butter 85 

Cereal 05 

Potatoes 10 

Graham flour 01 

Coffee 28 

2 bunches asparagus 25 

Finnan haddie 15 

Jelly 05 

Crackers 10 

Raspberries 30 

Baking powder 05 

Plour 20 

Sugar 18 

Rye meal 02 

3 yeast cakes 06 

Rhubarb marmalade 08 

Salt fish 06 

Vinegar 02 

Bananas 20 

I lb. tripe 12 

Beets 04 

Beans 08 

Olive oil 08 

Molasses 03 

Corn meal 02 

4 lbs. fowl .60 

Spices and salt 02 

Ice and salt 08 

Shredded wheat 08 

Lettuce 05 

Rice 02 

3 lbs. bluefish 38 

Box currants 10 

Irish moss 01 

Vanilla 02 



Total for week ^7.33 



HOOD'S MILK 



435 



July 15^22 

13 quarts milk ^i-i7 

zYz lbs. butter 85 

2 doz. eggs 70 

10 jars light cream .70 

Jar medium cream 10 

I qt. buttermilk 07 

Yz lb. full cream cheese 11 

Cottage cheese 05 

Shredded wheat biscuit 04 

1 doz. bananas 20 

Coffee 28 

Rye meal 01 

Sugar 18 

Flour 20 

Baking powder 04 

Spices and salt 02 

Potatoes 10 

Rhubarb marmalade 04 

2 lbs. flounder 30 

Chocolate 03 

Tapioca 01 

Cereal 05 

3 yeast cakes 06 

Walnuts 10 

Lettuce 05 

Oil 10 

Vinegar 02 

Raspberries 30 

Finnan haddie 15 

Molasses 03 

Crackers 08 

Salt fish 05 

Pork and beans 14 

Oat cereal 02 

Tongue, corned 64 

Yt pk. spinach 10 

Maple syrup 05 

Rice 03 

Ice and salt 05 

Vegetables .... 05 

Blackberries 13 

Beets 05 

Jelly 08 

Tomatoes 10 

Mackerel 25 

Cornstarch 01 

Vanilla 02 

Total for week $7-9 1 



July 22-31 

■^Yi lbs. butter |5i,i9 

zYz doz. eggs 88 

16 quarts milk 1.44 

1 1 jars light cream 77 

2 jars medium cream 20 

2 cottage cheeses 10 

Y lb. full cream cheese 11 

Cereal 10 

Coffee and flour 60 

Sugar 24 

Spices and salt 03 

Baking powder 05 

3 yeast cakes c6 

Rye and cornmeal 05 

Rhubarb marmalade 04 

Swordfish, i^ lbs 20 

Cucumber and oil 15 

Lettuce .05 

Green pepper 02 

Vinegar 01 

Blueberries, 4 boxes 60 

Haddock, 4 lbs 28 

Codfish 05 

Crackers 08 

Potatoes and beans 31 

Molasses 04 

5 lbs. fowl 75 

Vegetables .03 

Raspberries 15 

Ice and salt 05 

Rice 04 

2 qts. string beans 20 

Pineapple and jelly 20 

Graham flour 01 

Macaroni and walnuts 07 

Shredded wheat 04 

2 qts. peas and tea 15 

3 lbs. bluefish 38 

Lard 02 

Tomatoes, canned 01 

Bananas, i doz 20 

Tomatoes, 4 08 

I lb. halibut 20 

Apples, I qt 05 

lYz lbs. forequarter chops .. .18 

Total for week $10.46 

Total for month . . . .;^33.68 



436 



DAILY LIVING 



LoMrering 

July 1-8 

Coffee ^0.28 

7 jars light cream , . . .49 

Buttermilk 07 

Use I lb. swordfish, 13 cts., 

in place mackerel, 25 cts. .12 

Walnuts 05 

Tea 02 

Rhubarb marmalade 04 

Jelly 04 

Vanilla ice cream in place 

strawberry ice cream ... .15 

J^i.26 



July 8-15 

Coffee ;^o.28 

7 half pt. jars light cream. . . .49 

Jelly 08 

Rhubarb marmalade 08 

Use corn flakes, 3 cts., in 
place shredded wheat, 

8 cts 05 

Beets 04 

$1.02 



tKe Cost 

July 15-22 

8 jars light cream i$o.56 

Coffee 28 

Rhubarb marmalade 04 

Chocolate 03 

Jelly 05 

Use rice and cheese, 4 cts., 
in place of tomatoes, 10 

cts 06 

Use I lb. cod steak, 15 cts., 
in place of mackerel, 25 
cts 10 



.1.12 



July 22-31 

I lb. coffee ^0.35 

ID jars light cream 70 

I cottage cheese 05 

Rhubarb marmalade 04 

Green pepper 02 

Cucumber 05 

Raspberries, 15 cts., use 3 

lemons, 6 cts 09 

Jelly 05 

Walnuts . .05 

Tea ... .02 

4 tomatoes, 5 cts., use boiled 

eggs 05 

^1-47 
Total for month ^4.87 



HOOD'S MILK 437 



Recipes for Afternoon Tea Serving 



Chicken and Whipped Cream Sandwich 

Chop chicken fine, moisten with Hood's medium 
cream whipped and season with salt. Spread on sHces 
of bread, buttered with Hood's butter, and put together 
in pairs. 

Cheese and Green Pepper Sandwiches 

Mash I of Hood's cottage cheeses, add i tablespoon 
green pepper chopped fine, spread on slices of bread 
and put together in pairs. 

Raisin and Nut Sandwiches* Refer to March 7. 

Hot Chocolate* Refer to April 4. 

Iced Coffee* Refer to June 9. 

Iced Tea* Refer to July 5. 

Fruit Punch 

Boil 4 cups water and 2 cups sugar together 1 5 
minutes. Cool, add the juice of 6 oranges and 2 lemons. 
Serve with cracked ice. 

Buttered Baking Powder Biscuit* 

Prepare baking powder biscuit mixture, roll out % 
inch in thickness, cut with a small cutter, spread with 
Hood's butter melted, and put together in pairs. Bake 
about 12 minutes in a hot oven on an inverted pan. 

Hermit Cookies* Refer to March 1 3. 

Salted Almonds* Refer to December 25. 



438 DAILY LIVING 

Memoranda 



Month of August 




UJ 
C5 
Q 

cc 
111 

_l 
GQ 

Z 

o 

> 

22 
Q 

D 

o 

_l 

o 
< 

CO 
< 



o 

CO 



Care of Utensils 



Dishes used with Milk, Always rinse dishes in 
which milk has been standing in cold water before 
washing in hot water. 

To Remove the Odor of Fish or Vegetables, 

Soak knives, cutting board, or dishes with cold water to 
remove the odor of vegetables or fish. 

Egg Beaters, Wash the egg beater which has been 
used with the yolk of the egg in hot water, and the 
white of the egg in cold water. 

Cleaning the Coffee Pot, Wash the coffee pot 
after each using with hot water and no soap. Once a 
week fill with water, add i teaspoon cooking soda and 
boil 10 minutes, then rinse and boil in clear water. 

Xo Remove Stains from the inside of saucepans, 
put I teaspoon cooking soda in saucepan, fill with cold 
water and heat slowly. Salt on a wet dishcloth rubbed 
over the saucepan will remove any remaining stain. 

Cake or Bread Jars should be put out of doors in 
the sun once a week after washing. 

Granitet Tin and Iron Ware should be thoroughly 
dried before putting away. 

Dish Towels and Cloths should be washed with 
ammonia in the water, then rinsed thoroughly in hot 
water before drying. 

To Remove Acid from Dishes, Rinse thoroughly 
with cold water before putting in the dishpan. 



441 



442 DAILY LIVING 

August I 

BrestRfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Steamed Salmon White Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 
String Beans Pineapple Ice Cream 

Tea 

Ice Cream Nut Cake 



August 2 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Brown Bread Milk Toast Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Cold Baked Beans Graham Muffins 

Blackberries Nut Cake 

Dinner 

Scalloped Salmon with Potatoes and String Beans 

Bread and Butter One Crust Apple Pie 

Whipped Cream 



August 3 . 

BreaKfast 

Shredded \A^heat Biscuit 

Bananas Toasted Bread 

Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Scalloped Cheese Baked Apples Nut Cake 

Dinner 

Breaded Tripe Tomato Sauce 

Hot Biscuit Apple Tarts 



HOOD'S MILK 443 



August 4 

BreaRfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Codfish 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

L'tincKeon or Stipper 

Banana Salad 

French Dressing Bread and Butter 

Cheese and Jelly Crackers 

Dinner 

Boiled Swordfish 

Boiled Potatoes Butter Sauce 

Cantaloupe 



August 5 

BreaRfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L-tincKeork or Supper 

Potato Salad Boiled Dressing 
Bananas with Lemon Juice Sour Milk Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Curried Veal Steak 
Steamed Rice Tapioca Cream 



August 6 

BreaRfast 

Rice Muffins Omelet 

White Sauce Coffee 

LtincHeon or Stipper 

Clam Bisque Crisp Crackers 

Milk Sherbet Cold Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Fish Hash Pickled Beets 

Baking Powder Biscuit Milk Sherbet 



444 DAILY LIVING 

August 7 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

Diimer or I^ tine He on 

Baked Mackerel 
Baked Potatoes Steamed Blueberry Pudding 

Hot Custard Sauce 

Dinner or Stipper 

Beans Baked with Butter Baked Brown Bread 

Cabbage Salad Baked Custards 



August 8 

BreaKfast 

Fried Potato Cakes Graham Muffins 

Cantaloupes Coffee 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Chicken 
Stuffing Gravy 

Steamed Rice Boiled Corn 

Snow Pudding Boiled Custard 

Tea 

Buttermilk or Hood's Milk Cream Sponge Cake 



August 9 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Green Corn Griddle Cakes 

Coffee 

LrtincKeon or Supper 

Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Sponge Cake 

Dinner 

Chicken and Tomato Salad 

Boiled Dressing Bread and Butter 

Snow Pudding Boiled Custard 



HOOD'S MILK 445 



August 10 

'~~ BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Su-pper 

Clam Bisque Crisp Crackers Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner 

Chicken Timbals 
Cabbage Scalloped with Cheese Hot Raised Muffins 

Blackberry Pie 



August n 

' BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Boiled Eggs 

Bread and Butter Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Stxpper 

Huckleberries Crackers Hood's Milk 

Dinner 

Boiled Swordfish Pickle Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Rice Pudding 



August 12 

" BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Bananas Corn Cake 

Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Stxpper 

Creamed Fish and Potatoes 
Toasted Bread Blueberry Biscuit 

Hood's Milk 

Dinner 

Veal Cutlets Tomato Sauce 

Boiled Macaroni Blueberry Gingerbread 



446 DAILY LIVING 

August 13 

""~~~"^^~~~ BresiKfast 

Corn Flakes Blueberry Griddle Cakes Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Banana and Nut Salad French Dressing 
Baking Powder Biscuit Cold Blueberry Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Baked Mackerel Buttered Potatoes 

Sliced Tomatoes Tapioca Cream 



August 14 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes 

Creamed Potatoes Toasted Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner or L>tincKeon 

Omelet with Bacon White Sauce 

Hot Biscuit Sliced Bananas 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans Bak^d with Butter Baked Brown Bread 

Frozen Whipped Cream 



August IS 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Boiled Salmon White Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Green Peas 

Blackberry Charlotte 

Tea 

Crackers Hood's Milk 



HOOD'S MILK 447 



August 16 

BreaKfast 

Blackberries with Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Corn Cake Coffee 

L'tmcHeoii or Stipper 

Tomato and Green Pea Soup 
Toasted Bread Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner 

Salmon Omelet Creamed Potatoes 

Apple Pie 



August 17 



BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LtmcHeon or Supper 

Baked Bean Salad Boiled Dressing 

Toasted Brown Bread Rice Cream 

Dinner 

Creole Veal Summer Squash 

Mashed Potatoes Hot Biscuit 

Sliced Peaches with Light Cream 



August 18 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Fried Potato Cakes 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Stipper 

Golden Rod Salad 

Boiled Dressing Milk Sherbet with Egg 

Small Chocolate Cakes 

Dinner 

Scalloped Clams Baking Powder Biscuit 

Sliced Tomatoes Milk Sherbet 



448 DAILY LIVING 

August \9 

BreaRfsist 

Corn Flakes Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Huckleberries 

Crackers Hood's Milk 

Small Chocolate Cakes 

Dinner 

Baked Haddock Boiled Potatoes 

Cream Sauce Rice Pudding 



August 20 

BreaRfast 

Corn Flakes 

Chopped Hashed Potatoes Broiled Codfish 

Coffee 

I^tiv\cHeoi\ or Supper 

Scalloped Fish Bread and Butter 

Lettuce and Nut Salad French Dressing 

Dinner 

Baked Mackerel 

Mashed Potatoes String .Beans 

Watermelon 



August 2\ 



BreaRfast 

Corn Flakes Potato Puff 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

Dinner or L'UncHeon 

Breaded Tripe Hot Biscuit 

Sliced Tomatoes Frozen Watermelon 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Shell Beans Baked Brown Bread 

Lettuce with Vinegar and Sugar 

Baked Custards 



HOOD'S MILK 449 



August 22 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Reheated Casserole of Fowl 
Bread and Butter Vanilla Ice Cream 

Tea 
Crackers Hood's Milk 

Spiced Baked Sweet Apples 



August 23 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Brown Bread Milk Toast Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Green Pepper Omelet 
Entire Wheat Parker House Rolls Apple Sauce 

Dinner 

Creamed Chicken and Vegetables 
Toasted Bread Steamed Blueberry Pudding 

Hot Custard Sauce 



August 24 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Bananas 

Reheated Parker House Rolls 
Coffee 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Potato and Beet Salad Boiled Dressing 

Hot Biscuit Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner 

Boiled Halibut White Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Boiled Corn 

Peach Tapioca Pudding 



450 DAILY LIVING 

August 25 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Chopped Hashed Potatoes 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 
Coffee 

LuAcHeon or Supper 

Creamed Corn on Toast 
Sliced Bananas Butter Cake 

Confectioner's Frosting 

Dinner 

Oven Cooked Fish and Potato Croquettes 
String Beans Frozen Whipped Cream 



August 26 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes 
Fried Bananas Graham Muffins 

Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Supper 

Tomato Salad with Mayonnaise and Whipped Cream 
Cake Baked Apples with Nuts 

Dinner 

Boiled Swordfish Buttered Potatoes 

Creamed String Beans 
Cottage Pudding Hard Sauce 



August 27 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes 

Creamed Codfish Toasted Bread 

Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Huckleberries Crackers 

Hood's Milk Cake 

Dinner 

Flounders in Pork Fat 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Sliced Tomatoes 

Apple Pie with Whipped Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 451 



August 28 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Coffee 

Eggs Baked in Tomatoes 
Rye Muffins 

LtincKeon or Dinner 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 
Boiled Corn Hot Biscuit 

Blueberry Pie 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans Baked with Butter Steamed Graham Bread 

Chocolate Cup Custards 



August 29 

BreaKfast 

Corn Omelet White Sauce 

Reheated Graham Bread 
Coffee 

Dinner 

Reheated Roast Veal Gravy Mashed Potatoes 

Cauliflower with Cheese Sauce 

Spice Cakes Milk Sherbet 

Tea 

Milk Sherbet Spice Cakes 



August 30 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes 

Fried Potato Cakes Graham Muffins 

Coffee 

I^uncKeon or Supper 

Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Sliced Peaches Spice Cakes 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Veal Gravy 

Baked Potatoes Scalloped Cauliflower 

Old Fashioned Blackberry Shortcake 



452 DAILY LIVING 

August 3\ 

BreaKfast 

Corn Flakes Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LruncKeon or Supper 

Cold Baked Beans 

Pickled Beets Hot Biscuit 

Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner 

Veal Reheated with Tomato Boiled Macaroni 

Baked Blueberry Pudding Hard Sauce 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

The name of HOOD is and has been for more than sixty years 
a synonym for excellence of dairy products and honesty and 
liberality in commercial dealings. 



HOOD'S MILK 453 

Atig^tist 1 

Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November i . 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Steamed Salmon* Refer to July 4. 
White Sauce* • Refer to November 6. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
String Beans* Refer to July 25. 

Pineapple Ice Cream 

Cook I small pineapple, pared and cut in small pieces, 
4 cups water, 2 cups sugar together 20 minutes, cool, 
and strain, freeze, using 3 parts ice to i part salt, re- 
move the dasher, hollow out the centre, and fill with )^ 
cup Hood's medium cream which has been beaten until 
thick with }( cup Hood's milk, then yi cup sugar added. 
Repack, using 4 parts ice to i part salt, and let stand 2 
hours before serving. 

Nut Cake 

Cream ^ cup Hood's butter, add i cup sugar grad- 
ually and 2 of Hood's eggs well beaten, mix and sift i ^ 
cups flour with 2 ^ teaspoons baking powder, and add 
alternately with % cup milk to the first mixture, add }^ 
cup walnut meats broken in small pieces, and % tea- 
spoon vanilla. Bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

August 2 

Brown Bread Milk Toast* Refer to February i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 



454 DAILY LIVING 

Cold Baked Beans* Refer to July 12. 
Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 
Blackberries* Refer to blueberries, July 31. 
Nut Cake. Prepared August i. 

Scalloped Salmon with Potatoes and String Beans 

Prepare a double recipe white sauce, refer to Novem- 
ber 6, arrange in a platter, in alternate layers, left over 
salmon, flaked in small pieces, cold boiled potatoes cut 
in cubes, and left over string beans, covering each layer 
with the sauce. Cover with ^ cup buttered cracker 
crumbs, and reheat in a hot oven. 

One Crust Apple Pie* Refer to July 3 1 . 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4, 

Ati^ust 3 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Scalloped Cheese. Refer to January 2. 
Baked Apples. Refer to November i. 
Nut Cake* Prepared August i. 

Breaded Tripe 

Prepare as veal cutlets, refer to April 13. 

Tomato Sauce. Refer to December 12. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 



HOOD'S MILK 455 

Apple Tarts 

Prepare 3 apples as apple sauce, refer to December 
12, cut the left over pastry into rounds, using the biscuit 
cutter, spread ^ the rounds with the apple sauce, wet 
the outer edge of each round with cold water, fit on the 
upper rounds, prick with a fork, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

August 4 

Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Rye Muffins^ Refer to November 7. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Banana Salad 

Refer to banana and lettuce salad, February 3. 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 
Cheese and Jelly. Refer to November 5 . 

Boiled Swordfish 

Tie I pound swordfish in a cheese cloth, put in boil- 
ing water to which i Yq, teaspoons salt have been added, 
and boil until the fish is dry and flakes apart. The fish 
may be rolled up before putting in the cheese cloth. 

Butter Sauce. Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Cantaloupes 

Wash the cantaloupes, cut in halves lengthwise, and 
remove the seeds. Just before serving put a small piece 
of ice in each half piece. 



456 DAILY LIVING 

August 5 

Creamed EggS^ Refer to January 13. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Potato Salad* Refer to November 19. 
Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 

Bananas with Lemon Juice 

Peel and slice 4 bananas, sprinkle with sugar and add 
the juice of i lemon. 

Curried Veal Steak 

Prepare broiled veal steak, refer to May 22, seasoning 
with curry powder before broiling. 

Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19/ 

August 6 

Rice Muffins* Refer to February 4. 
Omelet* Refer to December 5. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Clam Bisque* Refer to March 2. 
Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 
Milk Sherbet* Refer to November 8. 
Cold Gingerbread* Prepared August 5 . 



HOOD'S MILK 457 



Fish Hash* Refer to February 26. 

Pickled Beets* Refer to January 23. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. Refer to November 2. 

August 7 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2, 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Baked Mackerel* Refer to June 12. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Steamed Blueberry Pudding 

Refer to steamed apple pudding, January 13. 

Hot Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 
Beans Baked with Butter* Refer to July 24. 
Baked Brown Bread* Refer to July 24. 
Cabbage Salad* Refer to November 7. 
Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 
Baked Custards* Refer to November 7. 

Aug^tist 8 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 

Cantaloupes* Refer to August 4. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Cold Roast Chicken* Refer to November 8. 



458 DAILY LIVING 

Stuffing* Refer to November 8. 
Gravy* Refer to November 8. 
Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Boiled Corn 

Husk the corn, put in rapidly boiling water, and boil 
10 minutes, add i teaspoon salt to the water in which 
the corn is boiling. 

Snow Pudding 

Prepare lemon jelly, refer to orange jelly, December 
7, using the juice of 3 lemons in place of orange juice. 
When the mixture begins to thicken beat until creamy, 
and beat in the whites of 3 of Hood's eggs, beaten stiff. 
Serve with 

Boiled Custard* Refer to March 3. 

Cream Sponge Cake 

Refer to mocha cake, April 28, baking the cake ^ 
hour in a sheet. 

Ati^ust 9 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 

Green Corn Griddle Cakes 

Add I cup cooked corn chopped fine to mixture of 
sweet milk griddle cakes, refer to January i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 

Cream Sponge Cake* Prepared August 8. 



HOOD'S MILK 459 

Chicken and Tomato Salad 

Use 3 tomatoes, peeled and cut in cubes in place of 
celery, and prepare as chicken salad, refer to November 2. 

Boiled Dressing* Prepared August 7. 

Snow Pudding. Prepared August 8. 

Boiled Custard* Prepared August 8. 

August 10 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 
Clam Bisque* Refer to March 2. 
Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 
Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5 . 

Chicken Timbals 

Prepare as fish souffle, refer to January 9, using 2 of 
Hood's eggs, and chicken in place of fish. Bake in 
small tins 20 minutes. 

Cabbage Scalloped with Cheese 

Refer to November 5. 

Hot Raised Muffins 

Refer to January 16. 

Blackberry Pie 

Prepare as blueberry pie, refer to July 28, using black- 
berries in place of blueberries. . 



46o DAILY LIVING 

Atigtist 11 

Boiled Eggs* Refer to March 26. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Huckleberries and Milk 

Serve i box huckleberries with i quart Hood's milk 
accompanied with crackers. 

Boiled Swordfish 
Refer to August 4. 

Pickle Sauce 

Add 3 pickles cut in small pieces to butter gravy, 
refer to November 3. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Rice Pudding. Refer to December 14. 

August 12 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit. Refer to March 20. 

Corn Cake* Refer to December i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Creamed Fish and Potatoes* Refer to June 3. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Blueberry Biscuit 

Add I cup blueberries to baking powder biscuit, refer 
to November 2. 

Veal Cutlets* Refer to April 13. 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 



HOOD'S MILK 461 

Boiled Macaroni 

Omit cheese, and prepare as macaroni with cheese, 
refer to December 9. 

Blueberry Gingerbread 

Add I cup bkieberries to gingerbread, refer to Novem^ 
ber 3. 

Atig'txst 13 

Blueberry Griddle Cakes 

Add I cup blueberries to mixture for sweet milk 
griddle cakes, refer to January i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Banana and Nut Salad* Refer to July 2. 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

Cold Blueberry Gingerbread* Prepared August 12. 

Baked Mackerel* Refer to June 12. 

Buttered Potatoes* Refer to January 19. 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Cover tomatoes with boiling water, let stand a few 
minutes, then peel, chill before cutting in slices. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19. 

Atigtist 14 

Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 



462 DAILY LIVING 

Coffee^ Refer to November i. 

Omelet with Bacon 

Fry ^ pound bacon, turn off all except 2 tablespoons 
fat, and cook omelet in the fat in the frying pan, refer to 
omelet, December 5. 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Sliced Bananas 

Refer to bananas with lemon juice, August 5, omit- 
ting the lemon juice. 

Beans Baked with Butter* Refer to July 24. 

Baked Brown Bread* Refer to July 24. 

Frozen Whipped Cream 

Beat I half pint jar Hood's medium cream until thick, 
add y^, cup sugar and ^ tablespoon vanilla. Put in 
mould, pack in equal measures ice and salt, and let stand 
2 hours. 

August 15 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Boiled Salmon* Refer to June 17. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Green Peas* Refer to June 17. 



HOOD'S MILK 463 



Blackberry Charlotte 

Use I >^ cups blackberries mashed and rubbed through 
a strainer in place of orange juice in orange charlotte, 
refer to January 20. 

A\ig;tist 16 

Blackberries with Shredded Wheat 

Serve blackberries with shredded wheat biscuit, refer 
to March 20. 

Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Tomato and Green Pea Soup 

Add I cup cooked peas to tomato, and prepare as 
tomato soup, refer to December 25. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5 . 

Salmon Omelet 

Use salmon in place of halibut and prepare as fish 
omelet, refer to March 18. 

Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Apple Pie* Refer to January 1 1 . 

August 17 

Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 



464 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Bean Salad* Refer to June 21. 
Boiled Dressingf* Refer to November 2. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 

Rice Cream 

Use % cup rice in place of tapioca, and prepare as 
tapioca cream, refer to December 19. 

Creole Veal 

Use veal in place of steak, and prepare as Creole steak, 
refer to April 1 5 . 

Summer Squash 

Wash squash, and cut in % inch slices, cook until soft 
in boiling salted water, drain thoroughly, then mash, sea- 
son with salt, and add 2 tablespoons Hood's butter. 

Mashed Potatoes. Refer to November i . 

Hot Biscuit. Refer to November 7. 

Sliced Peaches with Light Cream 

Peel, cut peaches in slices lengthwise, sweeten, and 
serve with Hood's light cream. 

August 18 

Fried Potato Cakes. Refer to November 2. 
Graham Muffins. Refer to November 3. 
Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Golden Rod Salad 

Hard boil 4 of Hood's eggs, chop the whites fine, and 
rub the yolks through a strainer, moisten shredded let- 
tuce with boiled dressing, arrange on a serving dish, 



HOOD'S MILK 465 



cover with a mound of chopped white of the eggs, and 
surround the white with the yolk of the eggs. 

Boiled Dressing* Prepared August 17. 

Milk Sherbet with Egg 

After freezing, remove the dasher, and fold in the 
whites of 2 of Hood's eggs beaten stiff, refer to milk 
sherbet, November 8. 

Small Chocolate Cakes 

Use ^ cup cocoa and ^ teaspoon cinnamon, added 
to thd creamed butter and sugar, in place of chocolate 
and vanilla, and prepare as chocolate cake, refer to 
December 9. Bake in small tins 15 to 20 minutes. 

Scalloped Clams* Refer to March 13. 

Baking Powder Biscuit, Refer to November 2. 

Sliced Tomatoes* Refer to August 13. 

August 19 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Huckleberries* Refer to August 11. 

Small Chocolate Cakes* Prepared August 18. 

Baked Haddock* Refer to November 13. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Cream Sauce 

Use Y2, pint jar Hood's light cream in place of milk, 
and prepare as white sauce, refer to Noverriber 6. 

Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 



466 DAILY LIVING 

August 20 

Chopped Hashed Potatoes 

Chop cold boiled potatoes fine, season with salt, and 
reheat in Hood's butter, or bacon fat. 

Broiled Codfish* Refer to June 4. 

Lettuce and Nut Salad* Refer to April 13. 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Baked MackereL Refer to June 12. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 

String Beans* Refer to July 25. 

Watermelon 

Chill watermelon thoroughly, cut in 2 pieces, place ^ 
watermelon on a platter, and serve, taking out the por- 
tion desired with a spoon. 

Atig(tist 21 

Potato Puff* Refer to January 25. 
Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Breaded Tripe. Refer to August 2. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Sliced Tomatoes* Refer to August 13. 

Frozen Watermelon 

Scoop out the watermelon from the rind, and remove 
the seeds, put in ice cream freezer, pack, using 3 parts 
ice to I part salt, turn a few times, then remove the 
dasher, and let stand y^ hour before serving. 



HOOD'S MILK 467 



Baked Shell Beans 

Shell 2 quarts beans, put in bean pot, add i teaspoon 
salt, 3 tablespoons Hood's butter, cover with cold water, 
and cook in the oven 4 hours, adding water if needed. 

Baked Brown Bread 

Refer to July 24. 

Lettuce with Vinegar and Sugar 

Wash y2 head lettuce, and serve accompanied with 
sugar and vinegar. 

August 22 

Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November I. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Cantaloupes* Refer to August 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Casserole of Fowl 

Cut a 4 pound fowl in pieces for serving, and cook in 
boiling water until partially tender, remove to casserole, 
add y2 cup each turnip and carrot cut in small strips 
and parboiled 5 minutes in boiling salted water, season 
with salt, cover the dish and cook slowly 2 hours, or 
until tender. In reheating, put the dish in hot oven and 
let stand until heated through. 

Vanilla Ice Cream 
Refer to November i. 

Spiced Baked Sweet Apples 

Core the apples, and fill the cavities with sugar to 
which has been added a few grains each cinnamon and 
nutmeg. 



468 DAILY LIVING 

August 23 

Brown Bread Milk Toast* Refer to February i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Green Pepper Omelet 

Remove the seeds and veins from i green pepper, 
parboil 5 minutes in boiling salted water, then chop 
finely, add to omelet before cooking, refer to December 

5- 

Entire Wheat Parker House Rolls 

Use Yz entire wheat flour and Y^. white flour and pre- 
pare luncheon rolls, refer to February 2. 

Apple Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

Creamed Chicken and Vegetables 

Thicken the gravy remaining from casserole of fowl, 
adding enough Hood's milk to make 2 cups, add the left 
over vegetables, and the left over chicken cut in small 
cubes. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Steamed Blueberry Pudding* Refer to August 7. 

Hot Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

August 24 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Reheated Rolls 

Refer to reheated baking powder biscuit, November 
12. 

Coffee* Refer to November I. 



HOOD'S MILK 469 



Potato and Beet Salads Refer to May 29. 
Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Cheese and Jelly. Refer to November 5 
Boiled Halibut* Refer to November 6. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Boiled Corn* Refer to August 8. 

Peach Tapioca Pudding 

Use 6 sliced peaches in place of apples, and prepare 
as apple tapioca pudding, refer to January 4. 

August 25 

Chopped Hashed Potatoes* Refer to August 20. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Creamed Corn on Toast 

Use left over corn in place of string beans, and pre- 
pare as creamed string beans, refer to July 26. Serve 
on 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Sliced Bananas* Refer to August 14. 

Butter Cake* Refer to November 11. 

Confectioner's Frosting* Refer to May 5 . 



470 DAILY LIVING 

Oven Cooked Fish and Potato Croquettes 

Use halibut in place of salmon, and prepare as salmon 
and potato balls, refer to June i8, shape in flat round 
cakes, put in baking pan, with i teaspoon Hood's butter 
on each croquette ; brown in hot oven. 

String Beans* Refer to July 25. 

Frozen Whipped Cream* Refer to August 14 

Aug(ust 26 

Fried Bananas 

Cut 4 bananas in halves lengthwise, fry in the frying 
pan in Hood's butter until browned on both sides. 

Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 

Coffee# Refer to November i . 

Tomato Salad with Mayonnaise and Whipped 
Cream 

Arrange peeled sliced tomatoes on lettuce leaves and 
garnish with quick mayonnaise dressing, refer to Decem- 
ber 8, and }^ cup Hood's medium cream, beaten until 
thick and seasoned with salt. Arrange the whipped 
cream on the mayonnaise dressing. 

Cake* Prepared August 25. 

Baked Apples with Nuts 

Prepare spiced baked apples, refer to August 22, and 
mix % cup walnut meats cut in small pieces with the 
sugar in place of the spice. 

Boiled Swordfish* Refer to August 4. 

Buttered Potatoes* Refer to January 1 9. 



HOOD'S MILK 471 



Creamed String Beans^ Refer to July 26. 
Cottage Pudding* Refer to May 14. 
Hard Sauce* Refer to November 4. 

August 27 

Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Huckleberries* Refer to August 1 1 . 
Cake* Prepared August 25. 

Flounders in Pork Fat 

Prepare as fried swordfish, refer to June 12, having 
the flounders skinned and boned. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes* Refer to December 24. 

Sliced Tomatoes* Refer to August 13. 

Apple Pie with Whipped Cream 

Prepare apple pie, refer to January 11, and serve hot 
with whipped cream, refer to November 4. 

August 28 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Eggs Baked in Tomatoes* Refer to July 30. 

Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 

Prepare macaroni with white sauce, refer to April 27, 
add % cup Hood's full cream cheese grated. Put in 



472 DAILY LIVING 

baking dish, cover with ^ cup buttered cracker crumbs, 
and reheat in hot oven. 

Boiled Corn* Refer to August 8. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Blueberry Pie* Refer to July 28. 

Beans Baked with Butter* Refer to July 24. 

Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 

Chocolate Cup Custards 

Scald the milk, add i square melted chocolate, and 
prepare as baked custards, refer to November 7. 

August 29 

Corn Omelet 

Use corn in place of fish and prepare as fish omelet, 
refer to March 1 8. 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Reheated Graham Bread* Refer to November i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Roast Veal 

Roast a leg of veal, refer to May 23 . The veal may be 
roasted and reheated the following day. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I . 

Cauliflower with Cheese Sauce 

Prepare boiled cauliflower, refer to November i . When 
ready to serve pour over cheese sauce, refer to February 5. 



HOOD'S MILK 473 



Spice Cakes* Refer to December 23. 
Milk Sherbet* Refer to November 8. 

Aug'tist 30 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 

Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 

Sliced Peaches* Refer to August 17. 

Spice Cakes* Prepared August 29. 

Cold Roast VeaL Prepared August 29. 

Gravy* Prepared August 29. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Scalloped Cauliflower 

Prepare as cabbage scalloped with cheese, using cauli- 
flower in place of cabbage, refer to November 5 . 

Old Fashioned Blackberry Shortcake 

Prepare as old fashioned strawberry shortcake, using 
blackberries in place of strawberries, refer to May 31. 

August 31 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 



474 DAILY LIVING 

Cold Baked Beans» Refer to July 12. 
Pickled BeetS^ Refer to January 23. 
Hot Biscuits Refer to November 7. 
Cheese and Jelly. Refer to November 5, 

Veal Reheated with Tomato Sauce 

Reheat left over cold veal in tomato sauce, refer to 
December 12. 

Boiled Macaroni. Refer to August 12. 

Baked Blueberry Pudding. Refer to July 23. 

Hard Sauce^ Refer to November 4. 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" Do not think that any milk is good enough for the baby. If 
possible, be sure of your supply ; keep it separated from that used 
by the family, and give it exceptional care. Sterilize or pasteurize 
such milk only with physician's advice and directions." Hood's 
milk is Pure, Clean and Safe. 

State Board of Agriculture^ Nature Leaflet No. 40. 



HOOD'S MILK 



475 



Cost of I^iving for A^ugust 

August 1-8 August 8ssl5 



12 qts. milk 5i-o8 

2)4 lbs. butter, at 34 cts 85 

2 doz. eggs, at 36 cts 72 

7 half pint jars light cream. . .49 

1 half pt. jar medium cream .10 

Cottage cheese 05 

}4 lb. full cream cheese 11 

Coffee 28 

Pineapple 10 

Ice and salt 10 

Nuts 05 

Vanilla 05 

Flour 20 

Sugar .18 

Spices and salt .... .02 

Cereal .05 

2 lbs. salmon 60 

Potatoes 10 

2 qts. string beans 20 

Graham flour. 01 

Baking powder 04 

Blackberries .13 

Apples and lard 12 

Bananas 20 

Shredded wheat 04 

1 lb. tripe 12 

Tomatoes 02 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Codfish 06 

Rye and corn meal 03 

Oil 05 

Vinegar and jelly 09 

Crackers .08 

1 lb. swordfish 15 

2 cantaloupes 25 

Molasses 03 

4 lemons 08 

I lb. veal steak 35 

Rice and tapioca 04 

Vanilla 02 

I pt. clams 13 

Salt pork 02 

Beets and mackerel 29 

Blueberries, i box 15 

Beans and }4 cabbage 15 

Total for week $8.02 



12 qts. milk $1.08 

2}4 lbs. butter, at 34 cts 85 

2 doz. eggs 70 

7 jars light cream 49 

Jar medium cream 10 

1 qt. buttermilk 07 

Cottage cheese 05 

Cereal 08 

Potatoes 10 

Coffee 28 

Cantaloupes, 2 25 

Graham flour 01 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Baking powder 02 

Spices and salt 02 

2 lemons 04 

4 lbs. chicken 72 

Salt pork and rice 07 

Gelatin 02 

Corn, I doz. ears 20 

Vanilla and cornstarch 06 

Shredded wheat 08 

Tomatoes 15 

Oil 10 

Vinegar 03 

1 pt. clams and crackers 23 

Jelly and ^ cabbage 13 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Blackberries, i box 13 

Lard and huckleberries 16 

Pickles 03 

I ^2 lbs. swordfish 20 

Bananas, i doz 20 

Corn and rye meal 02 

I lb. veal steak 35 

Canned tomatoes 02 

Macaroni 03 

Blueberries, i box .15 

Molasses and nuts 08 

Mackerel 25 

Tapioca 01 

Lettuce 05 

X lb. bacon and beans 12 

Ice and salt 05 



Total for week ;J58.20 



476 



DAILY LIVING 



August 15 '22 

14 qts. milk $1,26 

2>^ lbs. butter 85 

9 half pint jars light cream. . .63 

2 doz, eggs 70 

Cottage cheese 05 

Coffee 28 

Flour 20 

Sugar 18 

Spices and salt , .02 

Baking powder 05 

Cereal 06 

Corn and rye meal 03 

Graham flour 01 

Molasses and oil 07 

2 lbs. salmon 60 

y2 pk. peas 25 

Gelatin 01 

I box blackberries 13 

Crackers 10 

Shredded wheat 04 

Canned tomatoes 03 

Jelly 05 

Potatoes . .' 10 

Apples 05 

Lard 02 

Codfish 06 

Vinegar 02 

Rice 03 

1 lb. veal 35 

2 yeast cakes 04 

Peaches 12 

Lettuce 05 

3 lemons 06 

Ice and salt 05 

Cocoa 02 

I pt. clams 13 

Tomatos 10 

Huckleberries 13 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

Nuts 05 

1 lb. tripe 12 

Watermelon 35 

2 qts. shell beans 15 

Total for week ^7.88 



August 22=31 

18 qts. milk ^1.62 

12 half pt. jars light cream. . .84 
2 half pt. jars medium cream .20 

2^ doz. eggs, at 35 cts 88 

3^ lbs. butter, at 34 cts. . . . 1.19 

2 cottage cheeses 10 

% lb. full cream cheese 06 

Coffee 35 

4 lbs. fowl 60 

Ice and salt 13 

Vanilla 03 

Spices and salt 02 

Baking powder and flour 24 

Sugar and potatoes 28 

Crackers and apples 20 

Cereal and green pepper. . . .08 
Vegetables 02 

3 boxes blueberries 39 

Shredded wheat 04 

1 doz. bananas 20 

Beets and vinegar 08 

4 yeast cakes and jelly 18 

i^ lbs. halibut 30 

Peaches 15 

Tapioca 02 

Tomatoes, canned 02 

2 qts. string beans 10 

Graham flour 03 

Tomatoes 10 

Oil 05 

1 lb. swordfish 15 

Codfish 02 

Huckleberries 13 

i^ lbs. flounder 23 

2 doz. ears corn 30 

Rye meal and lard 05 

Salt pork 02 

Macaroni 06 

Beans 08 

Molasses 02 

Chocolate 03 

6 lbs. roast veal 75 

Cauliflower 15 

3 lemons 06 

Blackberries 15 

Total for week ;?5 10.71 

Total for month $ZA'^i 



HOOD'S MILK 



477 



I^o^vering tHe Cost 



August 1-8 

Coffee ^0.28 

7 jars light cream 49 

Cantaloupes 25 

Jelly 05 

Use 2 lbs. halibut, 40 cts., in 

place of salmon, 60 cts.. .20 



Total for week ^1.27 



August 8 '15 

7 jars light cream $0.49 

Coffee 28 

Cantaloupes 25 

Shredded wheat, 8 cts., use 

corn flakes, 2 cts 06 

Jelly 05 

Pickles 03 

Bacon 04 

Total for week ^1.20 



August 15-22 

7 half pt. jars light cream. . .J5I0.49 

Coffee 28 

Use 2 lbs. halibut, 40 cts., in 

place of salmon, 60 cts. .20 
Omit peas, 25 cts., use 2 qts. 

string beans, 10 cts 15 

Jelly 05 

Use I lb. lower round, 15 cts., 

in place of veal, 35 cts . . .20 
Omit nuts 05 



Total for week I1.42 



August 22'3l 

10 half pt. jars light cream. .^0.70 
I half pt. jar medium cream. .10 

I lb. coffee 35 

Green pepper 02 

I box blueberries 13 

Jelly 10 

4 tomatoes, use boiled eggs. .05 

Chocolate 03 

Peaches, 15 cts., use apples, 

5 cts 10 

Total for week $1.58 

Total for month J^5 47 



478 DAILY LIVING 

Memoranda 



Month of September 




z 
cc 
o 
o 

Ul 

I 
I- 



< 

I 

CD 



I- 

< 
LU 
(T 
GO 



FEEDING OF CHILDREN 

Written for DAILY LIVING 

By 
D. T. PERCY, M.D. 



It is well understood by most parents that the proper 
diet for their children between the ages of three and six 
years is one consisting of milk, milk soups, cereals, 
bread, butter, vegetables, fruit and a little meat at the 
midday meal only. 

I find, however, that there are very few of these par- 
ents who reahze that this same diet is also most suitable 
for the child from six to eleven. There is no doubt but 
what the greatest mistakes are made in the feeding of 
children at this latter period. The substitution of the 
hearty dinner of meat and vegetables for the wholesome 
supper of milk and cereals with a simple dessert is 
largely responsible for the attacks of indigestion and the 
various nervous disorders to which children at this age 
are liable. The middle of the day is the only proper 
time for the meat meal, and the simple supper should be 
continued until the age of twelve at least. 

Within a few weeks I have had brought to me for 
treatment three pale, nervous and poorly nourished chil- 
dren suffering from Saint-Vitus's-dance and upon in- 
quiry I found that these children of eight and ten had 
been allowed to eat the hearty dinner of meat and 
vegetables at night, with the family, after a lunch at 
noon which included meat. Now I would not say that 

481 



482 DAILY LIVING • 

this excess of meat was the only cause for their con- 
dition, but I am sure it contributed largely to it, and two 
meals a day consisting principally of milk, cereals and 
bread and butter will do much to improving the nutrition 
of these children and bringing about a cure of the 
nervous disorder. 

I am frequently told by mothers that they have great 
difficulty in getting their children to eat milk and cereals 
twice a day or, in many cases, once a day, but I find in a 
number of these cases it is the poor quality of the milk 
and the absence of a little cream on the cereal that the 
children object to, and when this is corrected they take 
it readily. 

The importance of continuing milk as the chief article 
of food for two of the meals a day for the school child 
between six and ten has certainly not been sufficiently 
impressed upon the minds of parents, but if such a 
course is pursued the development of the child is all that 
could be desired. 

Oct. 26, 1908. 
Arlington, Mass. 



HOOD'S MILK 483 



September I 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Eggs Baked in Tomatoes 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

L-tmcKeon or Supper 

Lettuce and Pepper Salad French Dressing 

Apples Baked with Dates Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Baked Swordfish 

Boiled Potatoes Butter Gravy 

Tapioca Cream 



September 2 

BreaKfast 

Boiled Hominy Creamed Fish and Potatoes Coffee 

L-tincKeon or Supper 

Oyster Stew Crackers 

Dates Stuffed with Cottage Cheese 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

English Beef Soup Dressed Lettuce 

Peach Fritters Currant Jelly Sauce 



September 3 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Hominy Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

L'U.ncHeon or Supper 

Creamed Celery on Toast Cheese and Jelly Crackers 

Dinner 

Baked Mackerel 

French Fried Potatoes Sliced Tomatoes 

Rice Pudding 



484 DAILY LIVING 

September 4 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

L-tincHeork or Dinnex* 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Baked Potatoes Hot Biscuit 

Apple Tarts 

Dinner or Stipper 

Beans Baked with Tomato Steamed Graham Bread 

Custard Pie 



September 5 

BreaRfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Baked Apples Coffee 

Dinner 

Hindquarter Roast Lamb 

Mashed Potatoes Mint Sauce 

Gravy Celery 

Frozen Whipped Cream 

Tea 

Nut Biscuit Cocoa 



September 6 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal 

Fried Potato Cakes Toasted Brown Bread 

Coffee 

LtincHeon or Supper 

Spanish Beans with Canned Tomatoes 

Toasted Bread 

Peaches with Light Cream 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Lamb Boiled Potatoes 

Boiled Onions 

Steamed Suet Pudding Foamy Sauce 



HOOD'S MILK 485 



September 7 

" BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 

Creamed Potatoes Rye Muffins 

Coffee 

L'tincHeon or Supper 

Potato Soup Hot Biscuit 

Sliced Plums Butter Cake 

Chocolate Frosting 

Dinner 

Rice Croquettes Jelly 

Cold Sliced Lamb Gravy 

Cold Indian Pudding 



September 8 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Bananas Corn Muffins 

Coffee 

L- tine He on or Stipper 

Boiled Shell Beans Toasted Bread 

Canned Peaches Cake 

Dinner 

Lamb and Green Pea Stew 

Boiled Potatoes Apple Dumplings 

Molasses Sauce 



September 9 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Hashed Brown Potatoes Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 

Sliced Bananas Cake 

Dinner 

Fish Chowder New Pickles 

Baked Cracker Pudding Custard Sauce 



486 DAILY LIVING 

« 
September 10 

' BreaiKfast 

Oat Cereal Omelet White Sauce 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Scalloped Fish Baking Powder Biscuit 

Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner 

Baked Mackerel Buttered Potatoes 

Sliced Tomatoes 
Banana Pudding Boiled Custard 



September U 

BresiKfast 

Oat Cereal 
Creamed Codfish Toasted Bread 

Coffee 

LtincHeon or Dinner 

Broiled Tripe Hot Biscuit 

Apples Baked with Meringue 
Boiled Custard 

Dinner or Stipper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Chili Sauce Baked Caramel Custards 



September \2 

BreaKfast 

Fish Balls Corn Cake Coffee 

Dinner 

Fowl Southern Style 
Mashed Potatoes Currant Jelly 

Cantaloupes with Vanilla Ice Cream 

Tea 

Creamed Cheese (Chafing Dish) Crackers 



HOOD'S MILK 487 



September 13 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LrtmcKeozi or Stipper 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Cabbage Salad Boiled Dressing Baked Apples 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Chicken Croquettes White Sauce 

Steamed Rice Peach Dumplings 

Custard Sauce 



September H 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal 
Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

White Soup with Left Over Rice 
Hot Biscuit Canned Pears 

Dinner 

Stuffed Rolled Roast 

Mashed Potatoes Scalloped Onions 

Apple Pie 



September 15 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

L>tincl\eon or Supper 

Potato and Beet Salad Boiled Dressing 

Bread and Butter 

Cream Cakes Whipped Cream Filling 

Dinner 

Cold Stuffed Roast Potato Puff Boiled Cabbage 

Peach Pie W^hipped Cream 



488 



DAILY LIVING 



September 16 



Oat Cereal 



BreaKfast 

Milk Toast 



Coffee 



LruncHeoii or Supper 



Potato Soup Cheese Croutons 

Cream Cakes Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fried Smelts French Fried Potatoes Sauce Tartare 

Pickled Peaches Bread and Butter 



September 17 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 
Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 



Toasted Bread 



Coffee 



I^uiiicHeoin or Supper 

Creamy Welsh Rarebit Crackers 

Baked Apples Tea Muffins 

Dinner 

Fish Chowder 

Pickles Apple Fritters 

Currant Jelly Sauce 



September 18 



BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast 

LuncKeon or Dinner 

Scalloped Fish Hot Biscuit 

Grape Jelly Cottage Cheese 

Dinner or Supper 



Coffee 



Baked Beans 

Chili Sauce 



Brown Bread 
Baked Custards 



HOOD'S MILK 489 



September 19 

BreaRfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Raised Doughnuts Coffee 

Dinner 

Rib Roast of Beef 

Roast Potatoes Gravy 

Buttered Brussels Sprouts 

Old Fashioned Peach Shortcake 

Tea 

Crackers Hood's Milk Baked Apples 



September 20 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Scrambled Eggs Toasted Bread 

Doughnuts Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Supper 

Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Baked Pears Hot Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Beef Gravy Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Brussels Sprouts 

Indian Pudding with Whipped Cream 



September 21 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 

Fried Potato Cakes 

Rye Muffins Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 
Hot Biscuit Gingerbread Cream Pie 

Dinner 

Reheated Roast Beef Mashed Turnips 

Steamed Fruit Pudding Hard Sauce 



490 DAILY LIVING 

September 22 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeoii ox* Supper 

Welsh Rarebit Crackers 

Canned Fruit Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Broiled Finnan Haddie 

Baked Potatoes Pickles 

Indian Pudding 

September 23 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Bananas Corn Cake 

Coffee • 

LuncKeoii or Supper 

Scalloped Oysters Toasted Bread Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner ^ 

Lamb Chops in Casserole 

Boiled Potatoes Boiled Onions 

Baked Apples Whipped Cream 



September 24 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish and Potatoes Coffee 

LtincHeon or Supper 

Emergency Soup Sliced Bananas 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Smelts in Pork Fat French Fried Potatoes 

Broiled Tomatoes 
Coffee Jelly Whipped Cream 



HOOD'S MILK 491 

September 25 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

Dinner or LuncHeon 

Fried Sausages Bananas in Sausage Fat 

Hot Biscuit Apple Pie 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Chili Sauce Baked Custards 



September 26 

BreaKfsiSt 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee Grapes 

Dinner 

Roast Chicken 
* Mashed Potatoes Gravy Cranberry Jelly 

Caramel Charlotte 

Tea 

Toasted Bread Baked Apples Cocoa 



September 21 

BreaKfast 

^A^heat Cereal 
Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Coffee 

L'U.ncKeon or Supper 

Potato Soup Toasted Bread 

Stewed Grapes Sugar Cookies 

Dinner 

Cold Roast Chicken 
Steamed Rice Cranberry Jelly 

Apple Dumplings Hard Sauce 



492 DAILY LIVING 

September 28 

BrestRfast 

Oat Cereal 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

L>u.iicKeoi\ or Supper 

Tomato and Celery Salad Mayonnaise Dressing 

Hot Biscuit Grape Juice Jelly 

Cookies 

Dinner 

Meat Balls Baked Potatoes 

Boiled Corn Tapioca Cream 



September 29 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Graham Muffins Coffee 

I^tincHeon or Supper 

Lettuce and Apple Salad French Dressing 

Bread and Butter 

Corn Fritters Maple Syrup 

Dinner 

Baked Swordfish Boiled Potatoes 

Butter Gravy 

Canned Fruit Bread and Butter 



September 30 

BreaRfast 

Wheat Cereal 
Oven Broiled Bacon Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Coffee 

L>tincl\eon or Supper 

Creamed Celery on Toast 

Cookies Cottage Cheese 

Dinner 

English Beef Soup Cream Pie Chocolate Filling 



HOOD'S MILK 493 



September 1 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2 . 

Eggs Baked in Tomatoes* Refer to July 30. 

Graham Muffins. Refer to November 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Lettuce and Pepper Salad* Refer to July 22. 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Apples Baked with Dates 

Pare and core the apples, and fill in the centre of the 
apples with dates which have been wiped, stoned and 
cut in small pieces. Bake until the apples are soft. 

Baked Swordfish* Refer to June 2. 

Boiled Potatoes^ Refer to November 3. 

Butter Gravy. Refer to November 3. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19. 

September 2 

Boiled Hominy* Refer to January 2. 

Creamed Fish and Potatoes* Refer to June 3. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Oyster Stew* Refer to November 6. 

Dates Stuffed with Cottage Cheese 

Wipe and stone the dates. Shape Hood's cottage 
cheese into small balls, and press into the opening of 
each date. 



494 DAILY LIVING 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 
English Beef Soup* Refer to December 29. 
Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 

Peach Fritters 

Use peaches in place of apples and prepare as apple 
fritters, refer to February 24. 

Currant Jelly Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
September 3 

Wheat Cereal. Refer to November 2. 

Hominy Griddle Cakes 

Use left over hominy in place of rice, and prepare as 
rice griddle cakes, refer to November 5. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Creamed Celery on Toast 

Prepare as creamed celery and cheese, omitting the 
cheese, refer to January 18. Serve on toasted bread. 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5. 

Baked Mackerel. Refer to June 12. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 

Sliced Tomatoes* Refer to August 13. 

Rice Pudding* Refer to December 14. 

September 4 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 



HOOD'S MILK 495 



Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Wipe the chops ordered with the hindquarter of lamb. 
Broil as broiled forequarter chops, refer to January 20. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Hot Biscuit. Refer to November 7. 

Apple Tarts* Refer to August 3. 

Beans Baked with Tomato. Refer to January 16, 

Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 

Custard Pie* Refer to January 30. 

September 5 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 

Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to Noxember i . 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I . 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. • 

Hindquarter Roast Lamb 

Prepare as roast lamb, refer to roast lamb, November 
22. Roast 15 minutes to the pound and an extra 15 
minutes for the meat to heat through. 

Mint Sauce* Refer to March 15. 

Gravy^ Refer to November 8. 

Frozen Whipped Cream* Refer to August 14. 

Fruit and Nut Biscuit 

Prepare baking powder biscuit mixture, refer to 
November 2, add to the dry ingredients ^ cup walnut 



496 DAILY LIVING 

meats, cut in small pieces, and proceed as for baking 
powder biscuit. 

Cocoa 

Refer to December 13. 

iSeptember 6 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Spanish Beans with Canned Tomatoes 

Refer to May 11. 

Canned Tomatoes 

Put ripe tomatoes into boiling water, and let stand a 
few minutes, then turn off the water, and peel, put in 
preserving kettle, with ^ teaspoon salt for each quart 
of tomatoes, mash, bring to the boiling point, when 
thoroughly heated and boiling put into canning jars and 
seal. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Peaches with Light Cream* Refer to August 17. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Fricassee of Lamb* Refer to November 12. 

Steamed Suet Pudding 

Add Yz cup finely chopped suet to % cup each 
molasses and Hood's milk, add i of Hood's eggs well 
beaten, mix and sift i y^ cups flour with ^ teaspoon 



HOOD'S MILK 497 



soda and Yz teaspoon salt and add to the first mixture, 
beat well, turn into buttered mould, and steam 3 hours. 
Serve with 

Foamy Sauce 

Cream %_ cup Hood's butter, add y^, cup sugar and 
when ready to serve add % cup Hood's milk scalded. 
Beat well and add y^, teaspoon vanilla. 

September 7 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes^ Refer to November 4. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Potato Soup* Refer to January 16. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Sliced Plums 

Wipe the plums, and cut in small pieces without peel- 
ing. Sprinkle with sugar. 

Butter Cake* Refer to November 1 1 . 

Chocolate Frosting* Refer to November 1 1 . 

Rice Croquettes* Refer to November 16. 

Cold Sliced Lamb* Prepared September 5. 

Gravy* Prepared September 5. 

Cold Indian Pudding* Refer to November 5. 



498 DAILY LIVING 

tSeptember 8 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit* Refer to March 20. 
Corn Muffins* Refer to December 16. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Boiled Shell Beans 

Shell 2 quarts beans, put in saucepan with i teaspoon 
salt and a 2 inch cube of salt pork. Cover with boiling 
water and cook until the beans are soft. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Cake* Prepared September 7. 

Canned Peaches 

Cover peaches with boiling water, let stand a few min- 
utes, then drain, peel and cut in halves, removing the 
stone. Boil together 5 minutes sugar and water, using 
the proportion of 2 cups water and 4 cups sugar, cook 
the peaches in the syrup until soft, cooking at one time 
enough for i jar, pack the fruit into the jar, overflow 
the jar with the syrup and seal. 

Lamb and Pea Stew* Refer to February 16. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Apple Dumplings* Refer to November 4. 

Molasses Sauce. Refer to December 30. 

iSeptember 9 

Wheat Cereal. Refer to November 2. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes* Refer to December 24. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 



HOOD'S MILK 499 



Macaroni Baked with Cheese 

Refer to December 24. 

Sliced Bananas* Refer to August 14. 

Cake* Prepared September 7. 

Fish Chowder* Refer to December 4. 

Pickles 

For 50 cucumbers, very small, allow 2 quarts vinegar, 
^ cup each salt and mustard, and yi cup sugar. Wipe 
the cucumbers, pack into jars, mix the vinegar with the 
dry ingredients, and turn over the cucumbers. 

« 

Baked Cracker Pudding 

Substitute ^ cup rolled cracker crumbs for bread 
crumbs, and proceed as for queen pudding, refer to 
November 6. 

Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

September lO 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Omelet* Refer to December 5. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Xoasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Scalloped Fish* Refer to November 1 1 . 
Baking Powder Biscuit. Refer to November 2. 
Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5. 
Baked Mackerel* Refer to June 12. 



500 DAILY LIVING 

Buttered Potatoes* Refer to January 1 9. 
Sliced Tomatoes* Refer to August 13. 
Banana Pudding* Refer to March 3 . 
Boiled Custard* Refer to March 3. 

September 11 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Broiled Tripe* Refer to January 2 1 . 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Boiled Custard* Prepared September 10. 

Apples Baked with Meringue 

Pare and core 6 apples, put in baking dish with a Httle 
water, and sprinkle the apples with sugar. When baked 
beat the white of i of Hood's eggs stiff, add 2 table- 
spoons sugar, and put a part of the meringue on the top 
of each apple. Bake about 6 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 

Baked Beans, Refer to November 7. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Chili Sauce 

To I dozen ripe tomatoes peeled and sliced add i 
green pepper and 2 onions finely chopped, put in pre- 
serving kettle, add 2 cups vinegar, ^ cup brown sugar, 



HOOD'S MILK 501 



3 teaspoons salt, i teaspoon each cinnamon, clove, all- 
spice and grated nutmeg. Heat to the boiling point, 
and cook very slowly about 3 hours. 

Baked Caramel Custards* Refer to February 27. 

tSeptember 12 

Fish Balls* Refer to November 8. 

Corn Cake* Refer to December i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Fowl Southern Style* Refer to November i . 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 

Currant Jelly* Prepared June 24. 

Cantaloupes with Ice Cream 

Prepare 2 cantaloupes, refer to August 4. When ready 
to serve fill with vanilla ice cream, refer to November i . 

Creamed Cheese (chafing dish). Refer to May 31. 
September 13 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Fried Potato Cakes. Refer to November 2. 

Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i. 

Cabbage Salad* Refer to November 7. 



502 DAILY LIVING 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 
Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 
Chicken Croquettes* Refer to March 8. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Peach Dumplings 

Use I peach, pared and stoned, for each dumpling, and 
prepare as apple dumplings, refer to November 4. 

Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

September I4 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Baked Beans. Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

White Soup with Left Over Rice 

Cook the stock left from September 1 3 and left over 
rice 1 5 minutes in the double boiler, season with salt. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Canned Pears 

Peel, quarter, and core the pears, and proceed as for 
canned peaches, refer to September 8. 

Stuffed Rolled Roast* Refer to November 18. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i . 



HOOD'S MILK 503 



Scalloped Onions 

Prepare creamed onions, refer to January 24, put in 
baking dish, cover with ^ cup buttered cracker crumbs, 
and reheat in a hot oven. 

Apple Pie. Refer to January 1 1 . 

September 15 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish. Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 
Potato and Beet Salad. Refer to May 29. 
Boiled Dressing* Prepared September 13. 
Cream Cakes* Refer to June 19. 

Whipped Cream Filling 

Beat the white of i of Hood's eggs until stiff, add ^ 
cup sugar and ^ teaspoon vanilla, fold in y^ cup Hood's 
medium cream, beaten until thick. 

Cold Stuffed Roast* Prepared September 14. 

Potato Puff* Refer to January 25. 

Boiled Cabbage* Refer to February 6. 

Peach Pie 

Prepare as apple pie, refer to January 1 1 , using 
peaches in place of apples. Serve with 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 



504 DAILY LIVING 

September 16 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Potato Soup* Refer to January 16. 
Cheese Croutons* Refer to February 3. 
Cream Cakes* Prepared September 15. 
Cocoa* Refer to December 13. 
Fried Smelts* Refer to January 30. 
French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5 . 
Sauce Tartare* Refer to January 1 5 . 

Pickled Peaches 

Dip the peaches in boiUng water, then wipe dry. Boil 
together 5 minutes 6 cloves, i piece stick cinnamon, 4 
cups brown sugar and i pint vinegar. Cook the peaches 
in syrup until soft, then proceed as for canned peaches, 
refer to September 8. 

September 17 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Creamy Welsh Rarebit. Refer to March 28. 



HOOD'S MILK 505 



Baked Apples^ Refer to November i. 
Tea Muffins* Refer to May 20. 
Fish Chowder* Refer to December 4. 
Pickles* Prepared September 9. 
Apple Fritters* Refer to February 24. 
Currant Jelly Sauce* Refer to February 14. 

September 18 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Scalloped Fish* Refer to November 1 1 . 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Grape Jelly 

Use under ripe grapes, and proceed as for currant 
jelly, refer to June 24. 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5 . 

Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 

Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 

Chili Sauce* Prepared September 1 1 . 

Baked Custards* Refer to November 7. 

September 19 

Reheated Baked Beans. Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 



5o6 DAILY LIVING 

Coffee 

Refer to November i. 

Raised Doughnuts 

Add ^ teaspoon salt and i yeast cake dissolved in % 
cup lukewarm water to i cup of Hood's milk which 
has been scalded and then cooled, add i % cups flour, 
beat well and let rise until light, then add % cup Hood's 
butter melted, i of Hood's eggs well beaten, ^ cup 
sugar, ^ teaspoon grated nutmeg, and % teaspoon cin- 
namon, add flour to make a stiff dough, about i % cups, 
let rise until doubled in bulk. Turn out onto floured 
board, adding more flour if necessary to make them stiff 
enough to knead. Knead, shape into balls, let rise 
again, and fry in deep fat. 

Rib Roast of Beef 

Order 5 pounds of the first or second rib roast, pro- 
ceed as for roast beef, refer to February 28. 

Roast Potatoes. Refer to November 22. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Buttered Brussel Sprouts 

Pick the wilted leaves from i quart basket Brussels 
sprouts, and cook as boiled cabbage, refer to February 6. 
Drain, season with salt and add 2 tablespoons Hood's 
butter. 

Old Fashioned Peach Shortcake 

Use peaches in place of strawberries, and prepare as 
old fashioned strawberry shortcake, refer to May 3 1 . 

Baked Apples 

Refer to November i. 



I 



HOOD'S MILK 507 

September 20 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Doughnuts* Prepared September 19. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 

Toasted Brown Bread* Refer to November 2. 

Hot Gingerbread* Refer to November 3. 

Baked Pears 

Use pears in place of apples, and proceed as for apples 
baked in casserole, refer to January 10. 

Cold Roast Beef* Prepared September 19. 

Gravy* Prepared September 19. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I . 

Creamed Brussels Sprouts 

Use left over Brussels sprouts in place of peas and 
proceed as for creamed peas, refer to February 1 5 . 

Indian Pudding with Whipped Cream 

Prepare Indian pudding, refer to November 5, and 
serve hot with whipped cream, refer to November 4, 

tSeptember 21 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Fried Potato Cakes* Refer to November 2. 



5o8 DAILY LIVING 

Rye Muffins. Refer to November 7. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Refer to August 28. 

Hot Biscuit. Refer to November 7. 

Gingerbread Cream Pie 

Bake ^ the recipe gingerbread, prepared September 
20, in 2 round cake tins. When ready to serve, fill with 
whipped cream, refer to November 4. 

Reheated Roast Beef. Refer to December 8. 

Mashed Turnips* Refer to November 6. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding. Refer to November 20. 

Hard Sauce. Refer to November 4. 

tSeptember 22 

Oat Cereal. Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs. Refer to December 2. 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 

Coffee. Refer to November i, 

Welsh Rarebit. Refer to November 8. 

Broiled Finnan Haddie. Refer to July 8. 

Baked Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 

Pickles. Refer to September 9. 

Indian Pudding. Refer to November 5 . 



HOODS MILK 509 



September 23 

Shredded Wheat Biscuits Refer to March 20. 

Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Scalloped Oysters* Refer to December 1 1 . 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5. 

Lamb Chops in Casserole* Refer to February 6. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Boiled Onions* Refer to November 8. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

September 24 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Codfish and Potatoes* Refer to March 2^. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Emergency Soup* Refer to November 5. 

Sliced Bananas* Refer to August 14. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

Smelts in Pork Fat 

Wipe lYz pounds smelts, season with salt, and roll 
in corn meal, proceed as for flounders in pork fat, refer 
to August 27. 



510 DAILY LIVING 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 
Broiled Tomatoes* Refer to July 2 1 . 
Coffee Jelly* Refer to November 2. 
Whipped Cream. Refer to November 4. 

tSeptember 25 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Fried Sausages 

Prepare and parboil sausages as for baked sausages, 
refer to December 20, drain, put in hot frying pan 
and brown. 

Bananas in Sausage Fat 

Cut 4 bananas in quarters, and fry in the fat with 
sausages. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Apple Pie* Refer to January 11. 
Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 
Brown Bread. Refer to November 7. 
Chili Sauce* Prepared September i r . 
Baked Custards* . Refer to November 7. 



I 



HOOD'S MILK 511 



September 26 

Reheated Baked Beans^ Refer to November i. 

Reheated Brown Breads Refer to November i . 

Coffee. Refer to November i . 

Roast Chicken^ Refer to November 8. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8 . 

Cranberry Jelly 

Wash and pick over i quart cranberries, put in sauce- 
pan with I cup water, and boil 8 minutes, rub through a 
strainer, put in saucepan with 2 cups sugar, and boil 5 
minutes, or until the mixture will jell. 

Caramel Charlotte 

Caramelize y^ cup sugar, refer to caramel ice cream, 
December 6, add the sugar to the scalded cream, and 
when dissolved proceed as for charlotte russe, refer to 
December 13. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 
Cocoa* Refer to December 13. 

September 27 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Toasted Brown Bread. Refer to November 2. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 



512 DAILY LIVING 

Potato Soup* Refer to January i6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Stewed Grapes 

Wash 3 cups grapes, remove from the stems, and 
snap out the pulp from the skins, cover the skins with 
cold water and cook until nearly soft, add the pulp, 
sweeten to taste, and boil 5 minutes. 

Sugar Cookies* Refer to November i. 

Cold Roast Chicken* Prepared September 26. 

Steamed Rice* Refer to November 4. 

Cranberry Jelly* Prepared September 26. 

Apple Dumplings* Refer to November 4. 

Hard Sauce* Refer to November 4. 

September 28 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Rice Griddle Cakes* Refer to November 5 . 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Tomato and Celery Salad 

Slice 4 tomatoes and cut in small pieces, mix with an 
equal amount of finely cut celery, arrange on lettuce 
leaves and cover with 

Mayonnaise Dressing* Refer to December 8. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Grape Juice Jelly 

Use grape juice in place of orange and lemon juice, 
and prepare as orange jelly, refer to December 7. 



HOOD'S MILK 513 



Grape Juice 

Use in the proportion of i y^ cups Concord grapes, i 
cup water and y^ cup sugar, and cook in a saucepan set 
in another pan containing hot water. Remove the stems 
from the grapes, wash, and cook with the water i >^ 
hours, add the sugar, and cook ^ hour longer. Drain 
several hours through cheese cloth placed over a strainer, 
cool and bottle. 

Cookies* Prepared September 27. 

Meat Balls* Refer to December 22. 

Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 

Boiled Corn* Refer to August 8. 

Tapioca Cream* Refer to December 19. 

September 29 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Lettuce and Apple Salad* Refer to November 7. 
French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Corn Fritters 

To I % cups corn cut from the cob, add i of Hood's 
eggs well beaten, ^ teaspoon salt, few grains paprika, 
and Yi cup flour, beat well, fry as griddle cakes, and 
serve with maple syrup. 



514 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Swordfish* Refer to June 2. 
Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Butter Gravy* Refer to November 3. 

September 30 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes* Refer to December 24. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Creamed Celery on Toast* Refer to September 3. 

Cookies* Prepared September 27. 

English Beef Soup* Refer to December 29. 

Cream Pie 

Prepare Y^ the recipe butter cake, refer to November 
1 1 . Bake in 2 round cake tins 12 to 15 minutes, re- 
move from the tins and fill with 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

Add I square melted chocolate to cream filling, refer 
to June 19. 

A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

During sixty-two years of continuous service not a single case 
of disease has been traced to Hood's milk. 



« 



HOOD'S MILK 



515 



Cost of Living for September 



September 1=8 

14 quarts milk 

2 j^ lbs. butter, at 41 cts . . . . 

1)4 doz. eggs 

Jar medium cream 

2 cottage cheeses 

7 jars light cream 

Tomatoes 

Lettuce 

Green pepper 

Apples 

I lb. dates 

I lb. swordfish 

Oil 

Vinegar 

Tapioca 

Hominy 

1 pt. oysters 

}4 lb. lower round 

Vegetables 

Jelly 

Peaches 

Lard . 

Maple syrup 

Celery 

Crackers 

2 yeast cakes 

Mackerel 

Coffee and sugar 

Spices and salt 

Baking powder 

9 lbs. hindquarter lamb, at 

I2>^ cts 

Mint and potatoes 

Nuts and raisins 

Ice and salt 

Cocoa and cereal 

Canned tomato 

Suet and vanilla 

Beans 

Pork 

Rye and Indian meal 

Molasses 

Plums 

Chocolate 

Rice 



^1.26 

•93 
.60 

.10 

.10 

•49 
.08 

•05 
.01 
.10 
.10 

•15 
.10 

.01 
.01 
.02 
.20 

.08 

•03 
.12 

•15 
.05 

•05 
.12 

.10 

.04 

•25 
.46 
.02 
•03 

I-I3 
.11 

•03 

•03 
.10 

.01 
.04 

.08 
.04 

•03 
.02 
.10 
•03 
•03 



Total for week ^7^59 



September 8 -15 

13 qts. milk 

lYi doz. eggs 

2}i lbs. butter 

9 jars light cream 

I cottage cheese , . . . 

^2 lb. full cream cheese. . . . 

Shredded wheat 

Coffee and flour 

Spices and salt 

Baking powder 

Potatoes and cereal 

1 doz. bananas 

Peaches 

Can peas 

Apples 

Molasses 

Macaroni 

Pickles 

4 lbs. haddock 

Crackers 

Vanilla 

Jelly 

Mackerel 

Corn meal 

2 qts. shell beans 

Tomatoes 

Codfish 

1 lb. tripe 

2 yeast cakes 

Beans 

Pork 

Vegetables 

Rye meal 

Chili sauce 

Lard 

5 lbs. fowl 

2 cantaloupes 

Ice and salt 

3 lb. cabbage 

Vinegar 

Rice 

Peaches 

Canned pears 

y^oi 2, lbs. lower round roast, 

45 cts 



:i.i7 
.60 

•93 
•63 
.05 
.11 
.04 
.48 
.02 

•03 
.16 
.20 
.10 
.18 
.10 
.02 

•03 
.04 

.28 
.10 

•05 
.10 

•25 
.02 
.10 

•OS 
.06 

.12 

.04 
.08 
.06 
.05 
.02 
.04 

•05 

'75 

•25 
.05 

.12 

.01 

•03 
.10 
.10 



Total for week $8.00 



5i6 



DAILY LIVING 



September 15=22 

14 qts. milk \ 

^Yz lbs. butter ; . . . . 

1 Yz dozen eggs 

7 jars light cream 

2 half pt. jars medium cream 

Cottage cheese 

Yz lb. full cream cheese 

Y2 rolled roast 

Cereal 

Coffee 

Sugar 

Flour , , 

Spices and salt 

Baking powder 

Vanilla . 

Potatoes 

Apples 

\Yt lbs. smelts 

Oil 

Peaches 

Tomato 

Crackers 

4 lbs. haddock 

Pickles 

Lard 

Jelly 

2 yeast cakes 

Beans 

Pork 

Chili sauce 

"V egetables 

5 lbs. rib roast 

I qt. brussels sprouts 

Pears 

Molasses 

Corn meal ... 

Rye meal 

Macaroni 

Dried fruit 



;i.26 

•93 
.60 

•49 
.20 

•05 
.11 



.08 
.28 
.18 
.20 
.02 

•05 
.02 

.10 

.10 

•30 

•05 
.20 

.01 

•15 
.28 
.04 
.10 
.08 
.04 
.08 
.04 
.04 

.90 

•25 
.10 
.02 
.02 
.02 

•03 
•03 



Total for week ^87. 72 



September 22-30 

15 qts. milk ^1.34 

T,Y lbs. butter, at 35 cts. . . . 1.23 

I Y doz. eggs 60 

II half pt. jars light cream. . .77 

1 jar medium cream 10 

2 cottage cheeses 10 

Y lb. full cream cheese 11 

Coffee and flour 60 

Sugar and crackers 37 

Canned fruit 20 

Finnan haddie 18 

Potatoes 10 

Cereal 08 

Spices and salt 02 

Baking powder 03 

Pickles 04 

Corn meal 02 

Shredded wheat 04 

I doz. bananas 20 

I pt. oysters 20 

Jelly 05 

lY lbs. forequarter chops . . .18 

Vegetables 10 

Apples and codfish 12 

I Y lbs. smelts 30 

Salt pork and lard 13 

Tomatoes and gelatin 18 

I lb. sausages 15 

3 yeast cakes c6 

Beans and molasses 12 

Rye meal 01 

4 lbs. chicken 80 

1 qt. cranberries 12 

Cocoa 02 

Grapes and rice 18 

Maple syrup and celery 22 

Lettuce and oil .15 

Vinegar and grape juice 06 

2 lbs. lower round 30 

I doz. ears corn 15 

Tapioca 01 

Tomato and graham flour . . . .02 

I lb. swordfish 15 

% lb. bacon 04 

Chocolate and vanilla 06 

Total for week ;^io.oi 

Total for month . . . .$33-32 



HOOD'S MILK 



517 



L'Ovirering 

September I -8 

Coffee ^0.28 

7 jars light cream 49 

I cottage cheese 05 

I lb. dates 10 

Use potato soup, 2 cts., in 

place of oyster, 20 cts.. . .18 

Jelly 12 

Maple syrup 05 

Nuts 02 

Raisins 01 

Chocolate 03 



Total for week $^-33 



September 8=15 

Coffee ;^o 

7 jars light cream 

Pickles 

Jelly 

Chili sauce 

2 cantaloupes 

Total for week $1 



28 

49 
04 
10 
04 
25 



20 



tKe Cost 

September 15-22 

7 jars light cream ^0.49 

I jar medium cream 10 

Coffee 28 

Pickles 04 

Jelly 08 

Chili sauce 04 

Use cabbage, 10 cts., in place 

of brussels sprouts, 25 cts. .15 
Use I lb. swordfish, 15 cts., 
in place of smelts, 30 cts. . . .15 

Total for week t>'^'33 



September 22=30 

I lb. coffee . . $0.35 



9 jars light cream 

I cottage cheese 

Pickles 

Jelly 

Maple syrup 

Chocolate 

Use apples, 5 cts., in place 
of canned fruit, 20 cts 15 

Use macaroni with cheese, 5 
cts., in place of scalloped 
oysters, 25 cts 20 



63 

05 

04 

10 
03 



Total for week ;8i.6o 



Total for month. .. .1^5.46 



5i8 DAILY LIVING 



Children's School Luncheons 



In preparing school luncheons have everything dainty. 
Parafine paper, or a piece of cheese cloth wrung out of 
cold water, will wrap the sandwiches and keep them 
from drying. Cream Hood's butter and stir into it 
chopped peanuts or walnuts, and use for spreading the 
bread. Chopped parsley added to Hood's butter creamed 
will make a good sandwich. Use as a sandwich filling, 
chopped dates or figs stewed until soft, or use bread 
and butter sandwiches, and figs or dates. The figs and 
dates should always be wiped with a piece of dampened 
cheese cloth. For a change serve a banana and cookies. 
The banana for the child should be thoroughly ripened, 
having black seeds. 

The cookies should be simple and home prepared. 

About %_ cup shelled nuts, either walnuts or peanuts, 
will make a change with the banana. 

Entire wheat or oatmeal bread is better than white 
bread, and should be at least 24 hours old. 

Avoid cut cake, as it crumbles easily. Cake may 
also spoil the appetite for dinner. 

It is said ** learning to eat proper things in a proper 
way forms a large part of a child's early education. If 
careful training in these matters is begun at the outset 
and continued, the results will well repay the time and 
effort required." 



Month of October 



THE WASTE OF FOOD 

written for DAILY LIVING 
By 

MRS. MARY J. LINCOLN, Author of the Boston Cook Book 



Of the many ways in which food is wasted, the 
throwing away of ''left overs" is the most common, and 
the one most frequently discussed and condemned. But 
there are many other ways which it is equally im.portant 
to consider, that we may learn how to avoid them. 

First : Food is wasted in its selection. 

From ignorance of food composition, purity and nutri- 
tive value, we select foods not suited to our individual 
needs, or those which are harmful because of adultera- 
tion or deterioration, or which have little nutriment in 
proportion to their cost. 

From pretension we desire as expensive food as that 
of our rich neighbor and select the choicest meats, game 
and poultry and the most costly novelties, thus making 
our food bills greatly in excess of their proper proportion 
of our income. 

From lack of self-control we indulge our appetite and 
buy foods out of season, getting frequently much less of 
value than when they are in season ; or we buy food that 
is indigestible and therefore wasted in the body because 
not assimilated. 

From lack of judgment (which might be acquired by 
observation and concentration) we buy at wholesale to 
save a few cents, when our storage facilities are unsuited 

521 



522 DAILY LIVING 

to large amounts ; or we buy in quantities much too 
large for our family, thereby having needless left-overs ; 
or we buy new and perishable material before that we 
have at hand has been utilized. 

Second : We waste food in its preparation by not 
using much that is nutritive if rightly prepared ; by 
thick paring of fruits and vegetables ; by discarding 
bones and fat of meat and skin and feet of poultry and 
the water in which certain foods have been boiled ; by 
baking and broiling foods that should be stewed ; by un- 
suitable combinations that check rather than incite the 
appetite ; by inaccurate measurements that produce un- 
certain results, if not direct failure ; and by careless, 
slovenly handling and serving, and unclean utensils, 
making the food unattractive and so unpalatable that it 
is refused. Gritty fruits, vegetables and salads, greasy 
soups and gravies, and foreign substances in minced 
mixtures, illustrate this form of wasted food. 

Third : We waste food by lack of care in its keeping. 

Materials kept in storage in pantry or ice box spoil 
because of heat, or cold, or moisture, or contamination ; 
they are spilled from torn bags or broken cartons, or by 
careless measuring ; and are lost by evaporation. Meals 
become alive or musty, and crackers and stale bread 
bits rancid or mouldy; extracts and coffee lose their 
strength if not airtight, and canned goods become poison- 
ous if kept in the tins after being opened. 

Perishable materials are wasted by too long keeping. 

After a meal all portions of food should be carefully 
examined, assorted, and put away in strong, common 
dishes suited to the amount, and in cold or dry places 
according to their nature, and then be utilized the next 
day or meal if possible. Scraps of meat, bone, vege- 
table, fish and fruit may be used in soups, made dishes 
or salads ; use bread for toast, crumbs, pudding or stuff- 
ing; use milk and cream (letting them sour quickly if 
preferred) in batters, salad dressing and cottage cheese ; 



HOOD'S MILK 523 



drain and save the coffee and use in cake in place of milk, 
or in mince pies, puddings, jellies and frozen dishes ; and 
thus, with careful planning to have just enough of the 
perishable and a reserve of the foods that may be stored, 
nothing of value need be thrown away. But remember 
that food suitable for hens or dogs is not wasted when 
given to them ; and that sometimes it is a waste of new 
material to combine it with the old, in an unappetizing 
way, merely to save a left over. 

Fourth: We waste food by experiments with novel 
recipes, often found in print, but which are incorrect in 
their proportions and methods ; by serving too many 
courses when we entertain, and, too often, at our family 
tables, forgetting that it is "variation, not variety" that 
we need in our daily menus. By mistaken kindness we 
waste time as well as food, in concocting all sorts of 
dishes to tempt the appetite of our invalid friends, when 
frequently they need most to return, for a time, to the 
simple but perfect food of pure milk, taken hot or cold, 
as directed by their physician, and which the most rebel- 
lious digestion may usually be trained to accept. With 
the needed amount of rest and sleep secured, a milk 
diet will prove to be "tired nature's sweet restorer." 

Lastly : We waste food by our own indulgence in it 
in quantities greater than is required for our immediate 
need ; or at times when fatigue or anxiety retard its 
digestion ; or by eating that which, from its nature or the 
changes made by wrong cooking, is unsuited to our 
individual powers of assimilation. 

Oct. 22, 1908. 
Boston, Mass. 



524 DAILY LIVING 

October I 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 
Creamed Potatoes Graham Muffins 

Coffee 

L'tmcHeon ox* Supper 

Oyster Soup Crackers 

Cottage Pudding Foamy Sauce 

Dinner 

Baked Haddock 

Baked Onions Boiled Potatoes 

Butter Gravy Indian Tapioca Pudding 



October 2 

BresiKfast 

"Wheat Cereal 
Hashed Potatoes Oven Broiled Bacon 

Coffee 

Dinner or LtincKeon 

Scalloped Fish Fried Biscuit Pear Marmalade 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans Baked with Onion Steamed Graham Bread 

Pickles Caramel Custard 



October 3 

BreaKfsist 

Fish Balls Toasted Bread 

Grapes Coffee 

Dinner 

Chicken Southern Style 

String Beans Mashed Potatoes 

Apple Pie with Ice Cream 

Tea 

Creamy Welsh Rarebit Crackers 



HOOD'S MILK 525 



October 4 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Fried Potato Cakes 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Spiced Grapes Molasses Cookies 

Dinner 

Chicken Stew with Dumplings 
String Bean and Pepper Salad French Dressing 

Crackers 

October 5 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Bananas Corn Muffins 

Coffee 

LuncKeon or Stipper 

Canned Peppers with Creole Rice 
Hot Biscuit Cheese and Jelly 

Crackers 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Lamb Boiled Potatoes 

Dressed Lettuce 

Baked Apples with Meringue Boiled Custard 



October 6 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Toasted Bread 

Creamed Codfish and Potatoes Coffee 

LruncHeon or Supper 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 
Bread and Butter Molasses Cookies 

Baked Apples 

"Dinrxer 

Scotch Broth 
Banana Pudding Boiled Custard 



526 DAILY LIVING 

October 7 

BreaRfast 

Oat Cereal Griddle Cakes 

Maple Syrup Coffee 

I^uncKeoxi or Supper 

Turnip Cream Soup Cheese Croutons 

Molasses Cookies Apple Sauce 

Dinner 

Baked Smelts Tomato Sauce 

French Fried Potatoes 

Custard Sauce Steamed Pudding 



October 8 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Omelet 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^uxicKeon or Supper 

Cream Fish Soup Baking Powder Biscuit 

Blushing Apples Whipped Cream 

Dinner 

Fresh Cod Croquettes 

White Sauce Shredded Potatoes 

Apple Dumplings Molasses Sauce 

October 9 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

Dinner or I^tincKeon 

Broiled Tripe Tomato Sauce 

Hot Biscuit Jellied Prunes 

Whipped Cream 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans 

Brown Bread Chili Sauce 

Yellow and White Custards 



HOOD'S MILK 527 



October 10 

BreaKfast 

Stewed Prunes 
Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Mashed Potatoes Gravy 

Grape Juice Ice Cream 

Tea 

Baked Apples Toasted Bread ^Cocoa 



October U 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 
Fried Potato Cakes Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Coffee 

L-tincHeon or Stxpper 

Baked Bean Cream Soup 
Crisp Crackers Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner 

Pot Roast Reheated Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Rice Cream 



October 12 

BreaKfast 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Bananas Rye Muffins 

Coffee 

L>ti.ncl\eon or Supper 

Meat and Beet Hash Hot Biscuit Buttermilk Doughnuts 

Dinner 

Broiled Mackerel Sliced Tomatoes 

French Fried Potatoes 

Baked Apples Bread and Butter 



528 DAILY LIVING 

October 13 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Creamed Codfish 

Toasted Bread Doughnuts 

Coffee 

LuncKeoii or Supper 

Welsh Rarebit Crackers 

Apple and Lettuce Salad 

French Dressing Tea Muffins 

Dinner 

Broiled Liver and Bacon Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Baked Bananas Bread and Butter 



October 14 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Broiled Sweet Potatoes 

Doughnuts Coffee 

LuncKeon or Supper 

Potato Soup 

Banana and Green Pepper Salad 

French Dressing Baking Powder Biscuit 

Dinner 

Boiled Halibut 
Boiled Potatoes White Sauce 

Apple Pie 



October 15 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Corn Cake 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 
Coffee 

I^uncHeon or Stipper 

Creamed Fish in Baked Potatoes 
Bread and Butter Stewed Figs with Nuts 

Light Cream 

Dinner ■ 

Cod Stuffed with Oysters 

Tomato Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Chocolate Bread Pudding Hard Sauce 



HOOD'S MILK 



529 



October 16 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

Dinnex* or LrtincHeon 

Roasted Lamb Chops Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Hot Biscuit Apple Tarts 

Dinner or Supper 

Beans Baked with Tomato Steamed Graham Bread 

Squash Pie 



October \7 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee Grapes 

Dinner 

Stuffed Lamb 

Mint Sauce Gravy 

Roast Potatoes Cauliflower 

Frozen Whipped Cream 

Tea 

Baked Apples Crackers Hood's Milk 



October 18 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal 
Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Coffee 

LuncHeon or Stipper 

Cauliflower and Beet Salad 

Boiled Dressing Stewed Grapes 

Toasted English Muffins 

Dinner 

Lamb and Rice Stew Steamed Cottage Pudding 

Custard Sauce 



530 



DAILY LIVING 



October 19 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 
Broiled Codfish Baked Potatoes 

Coffee 

L-tincHeon or Stipper 

Potato Soup Hot Biscuit Cheese and Jelly 

Dinner 

Cold Stuffed Lamb 
Potato Croquettes Dressed Lettuce 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 



October 20 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Omelet 

White Sauce 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Stipper 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese Baked Pears in Casserole 

Toasted English Muffins 

Dinner 

Lamb and Green Pea Stew 
Boiled Potatoes Indian Pudding 



October 21 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Coffee 

Creamed Potatoes Rye Muffins 

LtincKeon or Supper 

Welsh Rarebit Toast Canned Fruit 

Hot Gingerbread 

Dinner 

Fish Chowder Pickles Lemon Pie Meringue 



HOOD'S MILK 531 



October 22 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 

Griddle Cakes Maple Syrup 

Coffee 

I^uncKeoiiL or Supper 

Scalloped Fish 

Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 

Ginger Cakes Whipped Cream 

Dinner 

Baked Fillets of Halibut 

White Sauce Buttered Potatoes 

Apple Pie with Foamy Sauce 



October 23 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 
Creamed Potatoes Scrambled Eggs 

Coffee 

Dinner or L'U.ncKeon 

Casserole of Veal Hot Biscuit 

Boiled Squash Prune Pie 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread Chili Sauce 

Baked Custards with Nuts 



October 24 

BreaKfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Stewed Prunes Coffee 

Dinner 

Roast Chicken 

Stuffing Gravy Cranberry Jelly 

Mashed Potatoes Milk Sherbet 

Tea 

Milk Sherbet Shewsbury Cakes 



532 DAILY LIVING 

October 25 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal 
Reheated Baked Beans Toasted Brown Bread 

Coffee 

I^tincKeon or Stippex* 

Creamed Chicken with Green Peppers 

Cheese and Jelly Shewsbury Cakes 

Dinner 

Breaded Pork Chops 

Cranberry Jelly Boiled Potatoes 

Sea Moss Blanc Mange 



October 26 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal 
Hashed Brown Potatoes Oven Broiled Bacon 

Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Supper 

Cauliflower with Hollandaise Sauce 
Hot Biscuit Shewsbury Cakes 

Dinner 
Cod Steak with Cheese French Fried Potatoes 

Indian Pudding 



October 27 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal Milk Toast Coffee 

LuncHeon or Supper 

Lima Bean Salad French Dressing 

Baking Powder Biscuit Canned Fruit 

Dinner 

Scotch Broth Peach Fritters 

Custard Sauce 



1 



HOOD'S MILK 533 



October 2^ 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs 

Toasted Bread Coffee 

LrtincHeon or Stipper 

Creole Soup Cheese Croutons 

Baked Apples 

Butter Cake Fig Filling 

Dinner 

Fricassee of Lamb 

Boiled Potatoes Lettuce with Vinegar 

Chocolate Whipped Cream Frozen 



October 29 

BreaKfast 

Wheat Cereal Creamed Potatoes 

Corn Cake Coffee 

I^tincKeoni or Stipper 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 
Pear Marmalade Cake 

Dinner 

Clam Chowder Pickles 

Steamed Apple Pudding 

Molasses Sauce 



October 30 

BreaKfast 

Oat Cereal 
Creamed Codfish Toasted Bread 

Coffee 

I^u-ncHeon or Dinner 

English Beef Soup 
Hot Biscuit Apple Pie 

Dinner or Supper 

Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Chili Sauce Cake 



534 DAILY LIVING 

October 31 

BreaRfast 

Reheated Baked Beans Reheated Brown Bread 

Coffee Grapes 

Dinner 

Fowl Southern Style 

Cauliflower Mashed Potatoes 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 

Tea 

Toasted Bread 
Baked Apples Sugar Cookies 

Tea 



A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

" Do not blame the milkman for sour milk unless you are sure 
that the trouble is not in your home. He is sometimes to blame, 
but not always." 

State Board of Agriculture^ Nature Leaflet No. 40. 



HOOD'S MILK 535 



October 1 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Graham Muffins* Refer to November 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Oyster Soup 

Scald I quart Hood's milk with i slice onion, 2 cloves 
and a bit of bay leaf. Pick over and parboil i pint oysters, 
remove the seasonings from the milk, and add the par- 
boiled oysters. Melt 2 tablespoons Hood's butter, add 2 
tablespoons flour, and stir into the milk mixture, season 
with salt and pepper. 

Cottage Pudding* Refer to May 14. 

Foamy Sauce. Refer to February 23. 

Baked Haddock* Refer to November 1 3 . 

Baked Onions* Refer to November 13. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Butter Gravy* Refer to November 3. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding 

Use 2 tablespoons each corn meal and minute tapioca, 
and prepare as Indian pudding, refer to November 5. 

October 2 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Hashed Potatoes* Refer to August 20. 



536 DAILY LIVING 

Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Scalloped Fish* Refer to Novembor 11. 
Fried Biscuit* Refer to January 12. 

Pear Marmalade 

Pare, quarter, core, and cut in thin slices 3 quarts 
hard pears. Add 4 cups sugar and ^ cup candied 
ginger cut in small pieces. Let stand over night. In 
the morning add 4 lemons cut in small pieces and cook 
slowly 3 hours. 

Beans Baked with Onion* Refer to June 27. 
Steamed Graham Bread* Refer to January 2. 
Pickles* Prepared September 9. 
Caramel Custards* Refer to February 27. 

October 3 

Fish Balls* Refer to November 8. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Chicken Southern Style* Refer to November i. 

String Beans* Refer to July 25. 

Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i. 

Apple Pie with Ice Cream 

Prepare apple pie, refer to January 11. Serve hot 
with vanilla ice cream, refer to November i . 

Creamy Welsh Rarebit* Refer to March 28. 



HOOD'S MILK 537 



October 4 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Fried Potato Cakes, Refer to November 2. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 
Refer to November 3. 

Coffee, Refer to November i . 

Reheated Baked Beans, Refer to November i . 

Toasted Brown Breads Refer to November 2. 

spiced Grapes 

Prepare stewed grapes, refer to September 27. Add 
with the sugar j^ teaspoon each clove and sugar. 

Molasses Cookies 

Refer to December 15. 

Chicken Stew with Dumplings 

Refer to December 2 1 . 

String Bean and Green Pepper Salad 

Remove the seeds and veins from 2 canned peppers. 
Parboil 5 minutes, drain, cool and cut in strips. Add to 
string bean salad, refer to April 7. 

French Dressing 

Refer to November 7. 

October 5 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit, Refer to March 20. 
Corn Muffins, Refer to December 16. 
Coffee^ Refer to November i. 



538 DAILY LIVING 

Canned Peppers with Creole Rice 

Refer to May i6. Prepare the peppers as stuffed 
green peppers, refer to May 26. 

Canned Peppers 

Cut the stem and cut an inch gash in the side of each 
pepper. Put into jar and cover with boihng vinegar. 
It is not necessary to seal the jar. 

Cheese and Jelly^ Refer to November 5 . 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Fricassee of Lamb* Refer to November 12. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Dressed Lettuce* Refer to November 9. 

Baked Apples with Meringue 

Refer to September 1 1 . 

Boiled Custard 
Refer to March 3. 

October 6 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Creamed Codfish and Potatoes 

Refer to March 27. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i . 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 

Refer to August 28. 



HOOD'S MILK 539 



Molasses CookieSt Prepared October 5. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 
Scotch Broth* Refer to November 1 1 . 
Banana Pudding* Refer to March 3. 
Boiled Custard* Prepared October 5. 

October 7 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Griddle Cakes* Refer to January i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Turnip Cream Soup. Refer to November 12. 
Cheese Croutons* Refer to February 3. 
Molasses Cookies* Prepared October 5. 
Apple Sauce* Refer to December 12. 
Baked Smelts* Refer to January 15. 
Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 
French Fried Potatoes. Refer to January $. 
Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 
Steamed Pudding* Refer to November 2. 

October 8 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Omelet* Refer to December 5. 



540 DAILY LIVING 

Toasted Bread. Refer to November i. 
Cream Fish Soup* Refer to March 3 1 . 
Baking Powder Biscuit. Refer to November 2. 
Blushing Apples* Refer to December 20. 
Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Fresh Codfish Croquettes 

Order 2 lbs. cod steak and cook as cod boiled in milk, 
refer to March 30. Then proceed as for fish croquettes, 
refer to December 19. 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Shredded Potatoes* Refer to February 12. 

Apple Dumplings. Refer to November 4. 

Molasses Sauce* Refer to December 30. 

October 9 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast. Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Broiled Tripe. Refer to January 21. 
Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 
Jellied Prunes. Refei to December 5. 
Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 



HOOD'S MILK 541 



Brown Breads Refer to November 7. 

Chili Sauce* Prepared September 1 1 . 

Yellow and White Custards 

Separate 3 of Hood's eggs ; beat the whites slightly, 
add % cup sugar, few grains salt, % teaspoon vanilla 
and I cup Hood's milk. Turn into 4 cups and bake as 
baked custards, refer to November 7. Prepare a boiled 
custard, refer to March 3, using the yolks of the eggs, 
I cup Hood's milk, % cup sugar, a few grains salt and 
% teaspoon vanilla. When cold, remove the white 
custards from the moulds, put on serving dish and pour 
the yellow custard around the white custard. 

October lO 

Stewed Prunes. Refer to December 4. 
Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Pot Roast* Refer to December 6. 
Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November i . 

Grape Juice Ice Cream 

Mix I cup grape juice and i pint Hood's light cream, 
sweeten to taste and freeze, using 3 parts ice to i part 
salt. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Cocoa* Refer to December 13. 



542 DAILY LIVING 

October 11 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Fried Potato Cakes^ Refer to November 2, 

Creamed Scrambled Eggs. Refer to December 2. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Baked Bean Cream Soup* Refer to December 7. 

Crisp Crackers* Refer to December 23. 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5 . 

Pot Roast Reheated 

Cut pot roast in slices, put in saucepan, pour over the 
remaining gravy with the vegetables. Cover, and re- 
heat in a moderate oven about 3^ of an hour. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Use sweet potatoes in place of white potatoes, and 
prepare as potato croquettes, refer to December 7. 

Rice Cream. Refer to August 1 7. 

October 12 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit. Refer to March 20. 

Rye Muffins. Refer to November 7. ^ 

Coffee* Refer to November r. 

Meat and Beet Hash 

Refer to tongue and beet hash, July 20. 

Hot Biscuit 

Refer to November 7. 



HOOD'S MILK 543 



Buttermilk Doughnuts^ Refer to February 6. 
Broiled MackereL Refer to June 24. 
Sliced Tomatoes* Refer to August 1 3 . 
French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 

October 13 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 

Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 

Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 

Doughnuts. Prepared October 12. 

Coffee. Refer to November i. 

Welsh Rarebit* Refer to November 8. 

Apple and Lettuce Salad* Refer to November 7. 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Tea Muffins* Refer to May 20. 

Broiled Liver and Bacon 

Pour boiling water over i pound liver, let stand 5 
minutes, then drain. Cook ^ pound bacon as oven 
broiled bacon, refer to December 3. Use the bacon fat 
for pan broiling the liver, cooking slowly until well 
browned on both sides. Season with salt and serve the 
liver and bacon together. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes 

Scrub the potatoes and cook in boiling salted water 
without paring. When soft, drain and peel. 

Baked Bananas* Refer to January 30. 



544 DAILY LIVING 

October I4 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes* Refer to December 19. 

Doughnuts* Prepared October 12. 

Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Potato Soup* Refer to January 16. 

Banana and Green Pepper Salad 

Use 4 bananas sliced in place of string beans and 
prepare as string bean and green pepper salad, refer to 
October 4. 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. Refer to November 2. 

Boiled Halibut* Refer to November 6. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 

Apple Pie* Refer to January ii. 

October 15 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Corn Cake* Refer to December i . 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

Refer to November 3. 

Coffee 

Refer to November i . 



I 



HOOD'S MILK 545 



Creamed Fish in Baked Potatoes 

Refer to November 4. 

Stewed Figs with Nuts 

Add % cup walnuts cut in pieces to figs and prepare 
as stewed figs, refer to November 17. Serve with 
Hood's light cream. 

Cod Stuffed with Oysters. Refer to April 30. 

Tomato Sauce* Refer to December 12. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding. Refer to December 18. 

Hard Sauce* Refer to November 4. 

October 16 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Roasted Lamb Chops 

Order chops left whole, and the bone between each 
chop cracked. Season with salt and roast about y^ 
hour. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes* Refer to April 24. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Apple Tarts* Refer to August 3. 

Beans Baked with Tomato* Refer to January 1 6. 

Steamed Graham Bread. Refer to January 2. 

Squash Pie* Refer to November 14. 



546 DAILY LIVING 

October 17 

Reheated Baked Beans. Refer to November i . 
Reheated Brown Breads Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Stuffed Lamb 

Order the leg of lamb boned, and stuff v^ith stuffing pre- 
pared as for stuffed rolled roast, refer to November i8. 
Proceed as for roast lamb, refer to November 22. 

Mint Sauce* Refer to March 15. 

Gravy* Refer to November 8. 

Roast Potatoes* Refer to November 22. 

Cauliflower* Refer to November i . 

Frozen Whipped Cream. Refer to August 14. 

Baked Apples* Refer to November i . 

October 18 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i . 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Cauliflower and Beet Salad 

Use left over cauliflower in place of potatoes and pro- 
ceed as for potato and beet salad, refer to May 29. 
Serve with 

Boiled Dressing* Refer to November 2. 



HOOD'S MILK 547 



Stewed Grapes* Refer to September 27. 
Toasted English Muffins* Refer to January 28. 

Lamb and Rice Stew 

Cook the flank piece of lamb in boiling water until 
tender. Remove the meat, cut from the bones, and add 
the pieces of meat to the stock in which the lamb was 
cooked. Add i cup canned tomatoes, % cup washed 
rice and season with salt. Cook until the rice is soft. 

Steamed Cottage Pudding* Refer to April 26. 

Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2.. 

October 19 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Broiled Codfish. Refer to June 4. 
Baked Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Potato Soup* Refer to January 16. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Cheese and Jelly. Refer to November 5. 
Cold Stuffed Lamb* Prepared October 17. 
Potato Croquettes* Refer to December 7. 
Dressed Lettuce. Refer to November 9. 
Apple Tapioca Pudding* Refer to January 4. 



548 DAILY LIVING 

October 20 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Omelet* Refer to December 5. 
White Sauce* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 

Refer to August 28. 

Baked Pears in Casserole 

Use pears in place of apples, and prepare as apples 
baked in casserole, refer to January 10. 

Toasted English Muffins* 
Prepared October 18. 

Lamb and Green Pea Stew 

Refer to February 16. 

Boiled Potatoes* Refer to November 3. 
Indian Pudding. Refer to November 5. 

October 21 

Oat Cereal* Refer to November 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4. 
Rye Muffins* Refer to November 7. 



I 



HOOD'S MILK 549 



Creamy ^'"elsh Rarebit on Toast 

Prepare Welsh rarebit, omitting the egg, refer to No- 
vember 8. Toast the bread on one side and pour the 
rarebit over the untoasted side. 

Hot Gingerbread, Refer to November 3. 

Fish Chowder. Refer to December 4. 

Pickles* Prepared September 9. 

Lemon Pie» Refer to March 10. 

Meringue* Refer to March 10. 

October 22 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 

Griddle Cakes* Refer to January i. 

Coffee* Refer to November 

Scalloped Fish* Refer to November 11. 

Entire Wheat Baking Powder Biscuit 
Refer to April 7. 

Ginger Cakes* Refer to November 3. 

Whipped Cream* Refer to November 4. 

Baked Fillets of Halibut* Refer to November 25. 

White Sauce. Refer to November 6. 

Buttered Potatoes* Refer to January 19. 

Apple Pie with Foamy Sauce 

Prepare one crust apple pie, refer to July 31. Serve 
with foamy sauce, refer to February 23. 



550 DAILY LIVING 

October 23 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Potatoes* Refer to November 4, 
Scrambled Eggs* Refer to November 4. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee. Refer to November i. 
Casserole of Stuffed Veal* Refer to May 5. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Boiled Squash* Refer to November 12. 
Prune Pie» Refer to March 26. 
Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 
Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 
Chili Sauce. Prepared September 1 1 . 

Baked Custards with Nuts 

Add ys cup walnut meats broken in pieces to sugar 
and eggs, and prepare as baked custards, refer to No- 
vember 7. 

October 24 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i . 
Stewed Prunes. Refer to December 4. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Roast Chicken* Refer to November 8. 



HOOD'S MILK 551 

Stuffing* Refer to November 8. 
Cranberry Jelly* Refer to September 26. 
Mashed Potatoes* Refer to November I. 
Milk Sherbet* Refer to November 8. 

Shewsbury Cakes 

Cream >^ cup Hood's butter, add Vz cup sugar 
gradually ; then add i of Hood's eggs well beaten. Mix 
I cup flour with a few gratings nutmeg and add to the 
first mixture. Chill, then roll out }{ inch in thickness. 
Shape as cookies and bake on an inverted pan in a 
moderate oven. 

October 25 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Creamed Chicken with Green Pepper 

Add I canned green pepper cut fine, having the seeds 
removed, to creamed chicken on toast, refer to February 8. 

Cheese and Jelly* Refer to November 5. 

Shewsbury Cakes* Prepared October 24. 

Breaded Pork Chops 

Use I >^ lbs. pork chops in place of lamb and prepare 
as breaded lamb chops, refer to December 12. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Prepared October 24. 



552 DAILY LIVING 

Boiled Potatoes^ Refer to November 3. 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange» Refer to February 10. 

October 26 

Wheat CereaL Refer to November 2. 
Hashed Brown Potatoes^ Refer to December 24. 
Oven Broiled Bacon* Refer to December 3. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Cauliflower with HoIIandaise Sauce 

Prepare cauliflower, refer to November i, and serve 
with HoIIandaise sauce, refer to July 23. 

Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 

Shewsbury Cakes* Prepared October 24. 

Cod Steak with Cheese 

Use I Yq, lbs. cod steak in place of halibut and prepare 
as halibut baked with cheese, refer to December 15. 

French Fried Potatoes* Refer to January 5. 

Indian Pudding* Refer to November 5 . 

October 27 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Milk Toast* Refer to December 27. 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 



HOOD'S MILK 553 



Lima Bean Salad 

Soak I cup lima beans over night. In the morning, 
drain and cook in boiUng salted water until soft. Drain, 
cool, and serve on lettuce leaves with 

French Dressing* Refer to November 7. 

Baking Powder Biscuit* Refer to November 2. 

Scotch Broth* Refer to November 1 1 . 

Custard Sauce* Refer to November 2. 

October 28 

Wheat Cereal* Refer to November 2. 
Creamed Scrambled Eggs* Refer to December 2. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i . 

Creole Soup 

Add I pint canned tomato, i canned green pepper, i 
small onion cut fine, to i pint left over stock. Cook 15 
minutes, strain and thicken, using 2 tablespoons each 
flour and Hood's butter. Season with salt and pepper. 

Cheese Croutons* Refer to February 3. 
Baked Apples* Refer to November i. 
Butter Cake* Refer to November 11. 

Fig Filling 

Wipe and cut in small pieces ^ lb. figs. Cook in 
the double boiler with a small quantity of water until 
tender. Sweeten to taste. 



554 DAILY LIVING 

Fricassee of LamK Refer to November 12. 
Boiled Potatoes. Refer to November 3. 
Lettuce with Vinegar. Refer to August 2 1 . 

Chocolate Whipped Cream Frozen 

Melt I square chocolate, dilute with boiling water to 
make a liquid, then cool. Add to i cup Hood's medium 
cream beaten stiff, then add ^ cup sugar, and let stand 
packed in equal parts ice and salt 2 hours. 

October 29 

W^heat Cereal. Refer to November 2. 
Creamed Potatoes. Refer to November 4. 
Corn Cake. Refer to December i . 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 

Macaroni Baked with Cheese 

Refer to December 24. 

Pear Marmalade* Prepared October 2. 

Cake. Prepared October 28. 

Clam Chowder. Refer to January i . 

Pickles. Prepared September 9. 

Steamed Apple Pudding. Refer to January 13. 

Molasses Sauce. Refer to December 30. 



HOOD'S MILK 555 



October 30 

Oat CereaL Refer to November 4. 
Creamed Codfish* Refer to November 6. 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
English Beef Soup* Refer to December 29. 
Hot Biscuit* Refer to November 7. 
Apple Pie* Refer to January 11. 
Baked Beans* Refer to November 7. 
Brown Bread* Refer to November 7. 
Chili Sauce* Prepared September 11. 
Cake* Prepared October 28. 

October 31 

Reheated Baked Beans* Refer to November i. 
Reheated Brown Bread. Refer to November i. 
Coffee* Refer to November i. 
Fowl Southern Style* Refer to November i. 
Cauliflower* Refer to November i . 
Mashed Potatoes^ Refer to November I . 
Vanilla Ice Cream* Refer to November I. 
Chocolate Sauce* Refer to November i . 
Toasted Bread* Refer to November i. 



556 DAILY LIVING 

Baked Apples. Refer to November i . 
Sugar Cookies* Refer to November i . 
Tea* Refer to November i. 

A Perfect Milk is a Perfect Food 

Milk is admirably fitted to supplement the deficiencies of other 
articles of diet. Milk is the cheapest source of animal proteid, 
and proteid is the ingredient which, more than any other, is apt to 
be deficient in a mixed diet. Eight pennyworths of whole milk 
yield as much proteid as ten pennyworths of beef. But milk has 
the advantage over beef of containing a considerable amount of 
carbohydrate in addition to its proteid and fat, with the result 
that a quart of good milk is really equal in nutritive value to a 
pound of beefsteak. . . . Unfortunately, the prevailing ten- 
dency is to regard milk as a beverage rather than as a food. 
This is a great mistake, in proof of which one cannot do better 
than quote an extract from the valuable pamphlet on " Milk as 
Food" issued by the United States Department of Agriculture. 
. . . The following extract states succinctly the advantages 
which are obtained from the liberal use of milk in the dietary : — 

" A very interesting experiment was recently made at the 
University of Wisconsin, in co-operation with this Department, in 
which the effect of a limited and unlimited amount of milk was 
tried at the University boarding-house, or ' commons.' From 
these studies the following conclusions were drawn : — 

" '(i) The dietaries in which milk was more abundantly suppHed 
were somewhat less costly than the others, and at the same time 
were fully as acceptable. 

" '(2) The increased consumption of milk had the effect of mate- 
rially increasing the proportion of proteid in the diet. 

"'(3) The milk actually suppHed the place of other food mate- 
rials, and did not, as many suppose, simply furnish an additional 
amount of food without diminishing the quantity of other materials. 

"'(4) The results indicate that milk should not be regarded as 
a luxury, but as an economical article of diet which families of 
moderate income may freely purchase as a probable means of 
improving the character of the diet and cheapening the cost of the 
supply of animal foods.' 

" Robert Hutchinson, M.D., Edin., F.R.C.P., 

" Assistant Physician to the London Hospital and to the Hospital for Sick 
Children^ Great Ormand Street?'' 



HOOD'S MILK 



557 



Cost of I^iving for October 



October 1-8 

13 qts. milk $1.17 

2}4 lbs. butter, at 41 cts 1.03 

I doz, eggs 42 

9 half pint jars light cream . . .63 

Cottage cheese 015 

Sugar 18 

Potatoes 10 

}4 lb. cheese ' 11 

Flour and cereal 26 

Graham flour 03 

Coffee 28 

1 pt. oysters 20 

Crackers 10 

Spices and salt 02 

Baking powder 03 

4 lbs. haddock 28 

Vegetables 05 

Tapioca 01 

Indian meal 02 

)^ lb. bacon 04 

Crackers 10 

Lard 08 

Marmalade 04 

Beans and pork 12 

Molasses 03 

Pickles 04 

Codfish 06 

Grapes 15 

2 yeast cakes 04 

5 lbs. fowl 75 

2 qts. string beans 12 

Apples 10 

Ice and salt 05 

Vanilla . 03 

Tomatoes 03 

Oil and vinegar 11 

Green peppers 05 

Lettuce 05 

Shredded wheat 04 

I doz. bananas 20 

Jelly 05 

4 lbs. forequarter lamb 48 

Macaroni 03 

Maple syrup 05 

i^ lbs. smelts 23 



Total for week $8.04 



October 8-15 



lbs. butter i. 



12 qts. milk $1.08 

60 
63 



I 14 doz. eggs 

9 half pint jars light cream. 
}4 pt. jar medium cream. . . 
}4 lb. full cream cheese. . . . 
1 cottage cheese 

1 pt. buttermilk 

Coffee 

2 yeast cakes 

Flour and sugar 

Spices and salt 

Baking powder 

Apples 

Potatoes 

2 lbs. cod steak . . 

Lemon 

Lard 

Molasses 

Cereal 

I lb. tripe 

Tomatoes, canned 

1 lb. prunes 

Beans and salt pork 

Rye meal 

Indian meal 

Chili sauce 

4 lbs. pot roast 

Grape juice 

Ice and salt 

Crackers and jelly 

Rice and vanilla 

Shredded wheat 

Bananas, i doz 

Beets 

Mackerel 

Tomatoes 

Codfish 

Lettuce and oil 

% lb. bacon 

Liver, i lb 

Vegetables 

2 green peppers 

Gelatin and vinegar. . . . . . 

1 1^ lbs. halibut 



.10 
.11 

•05 
.04 

.28 

.04 

•38 
.02 

•03 
.10 

.10 

•30 
.02 
.10 
.04 
.08 
.12 
.02 
.12 
.12 
.02 
.01 
.04 
.60 
•05 
•05 

•IS 
.04 

.04 

.20 

•03 
•25 
•05 

.02 

.18 
.04 

•15 
•05 

.01 

•05 
•30 



Total for week $7-84 



558 



DAILY LIVING 



October 15-22 

13 quarts milk $i-i7 

2}4, lbs. butter, at 45 cts 1.13 

ij^ doz. eggs. 63 

7 jars light cream 49 

I jar medium cream 10 

Cottage cheese 05 

%, lb. cheese 11 

Cereal 08 

Coffee 28 

Flour 20 

Spices and salt 02 

Sugar 18 

Baking powder 03 

Potatoes 10 

Apples 10 

Tomato, canned 03 

Cornmeal 02 

i^ lbs. cod steak 23 

y^ pt. oysters 10 

Chocolate 03 

9 lbs. hindquarter lamb, at 

i2y2 cts 1. 13 

3 yeast cakes 06 

Graham flour , .02 

Rye meal 02 

3 lbs. squash 09 

Lard 10 

Beans , 08 

Pork 06 

Grapes 15 

Dried mint 01 

Cauliflower 15 

Ice and salt 03 

Crackers 10 

Beets and rice 05 

Codfish 06 

Vegetables 05 

Jelly 05 

Tapioca 02 

Macaroni 03 

Pears 08 

Can peas 18 

Molasses 03 

^ of 4 lbs. haddock, 28 cts. .14 

Nuts and canned fruit 15 

Pickles 04 

Lemon and cornstarch 03 

Total for week ^7-99 



October 22=31 

16 quarts milk ^i-45 

3^ lbs. butter, at 45 cts. . . . 1. 61 
12 half pt. jars light cream. . .84 

Jar medium cream 10 

I y2 doz. eggs 63 

Cottage cheese 05 

y^, lb. full cream cheese 11 

Cereal and coffee 45 

Maple syrup 05 

Flour and sugar 44 

Spices and salt 02 

Baking powder 03 

I lb. halibut 20 

Potatoes and apples 25 

Lard and i lb. veal 42 

3 yeast cakes 06 

I lb. prunes 12 

Beans and cornmeal 19 

Rye meal and salt pork 10 

Chili sauce and vanilla 07 

Nuts and 4 lbs. chicken 83 

Cranberries and 2 lemons. . . .14 

Ice and salt 13 

Green pepper and jelly 06 

xYi lbs. pork chops 23 

Sea moss 01 

y. lb. bacon 04 

Cauliflower and molasses .. . .17 

I y^ lbs. cod steak 23 

Lima beans and macaroni . . . .06 

Lettuce and pickles 12 

Oil and vinegar 07 

4 lbs. forequarter lamb 48 

Pear marmalade 04 

Peaches 05 

Codfish 02 

Canned fruit 10 

Vegetables 03 

>^ lb. figs 08 

Chocolate 05 

^ lb. lower round 08 

Grapes 05 

j/^ of 5 lbs. fowl, 90 cts 45 

y^ of cauliflower 08 

Tea 02 

Total for week $10.79 

Total for month $34-66 



HOOD'S MILK 



559 



LoMrering tHe Cost 



October 1-8 

7 jars light cream ^0.49 

Coffee 28 

Use potatoes, i ct., in place 

of oysters, 20 cts 19 

Marmalade 04 

Pickles 04 

Jelly 05 

Maple syrup 05 

Use I lb. swordfish, 1 5 cts., in 

place of smelts, 23 cts. . .08 

Total for week ^1.22 



October 8=15 

7 half pt. jars light cream, 

Coffee 

Chili sauce 

Grapes 

Jelly 



.;^o.49 
. .28 
. .04 

• .15 

. .05 



Total for week ^i.oi 



October 15-22 

7 half pt. jars light cream. . . 

Coffee 

Oysters 

Chocolate from bread pud- 
ding 

Grapes 

Mint 

Jelly 

Use potatoes, i ct., in place 
of peas, 18 cts 

Canned fruit, 10 cts., use 
apples, 2 cts 

Pickles 



$0.49 
.28 
.10 

•03 
•15 
.61 
.05 

•17 

.08 
.04 



Total for week $1.^0 



October 22-31 

10 half pt. jars Hght cream. .$0.70 

I lb. coffee 35 

Maple syrup 05 

Use I lb. lower round for 
meat balls, 15 cts., in 
place of veal, 35 cts 20 

Chili sauce 04 

Nuts 03 

Green pepper 01 

Jelly .05 

Bacon 04 

Pickles 05 

Chocolate 05 

Canned fruit, 10 cts., use 

apples, 2 cts 08 

Figs 08 

Pear marmalade 04 

Grapes 05 



Total for week ^1.82 



Total for month 55-45 



56o 



DAILY LIVING 



Memorskndsi 



Ind 



ex 



AFTERNOON TEA SERVING, 399 

BEVERAGES 

Black coffee, 395 
Buttermilk, 411 
Cocoa, 85 
Coffee, II 
Cold chocolate, 211 
Cracker gruel, 260 
Flour gruel, 260 
Fruit punch, 457 
Grape juice, 259 
Hot chocolate, 278 
Iced coffee, 374 
Iced Russian tea, 379 
Iced tea, 414 
Oatmeal gruel, 260 
Rice water, 259 
Tea, 12 

BREADS 

Baked brown bread, 428 
Baking powder biscuit, 14 
Blueberry biscuit, 460 
Boston brown bread, 26 
Bread and butter sandwiches, 98 
Brown and white bread sand- 
wich, 199 
Brown bread milk toast, 179 
Brown bread with raisins, 148 
Brown bread and lettuce sand- 
wich, 419 
Brown bread toasted, 13 
Buttermilk rolls, 203 
Buttered baking powder biscuit, 

437 
Cheese croutons, 181 

Cheese milk toast, 421 
Cheese and green pepper sand- 
wiches, 437 
Cheese sandwiches, 74 



BREADS (continued) 

Chicken and whipped cream 
sandwich, 437 

Cottage cheese and parsley 
sandwiches, 337 

Coffee bread, 424 

Cream cheese sandwich, 85 

Cream toast, 426 

Croustades of bread, 147 

Croutons of bread, 22 

Dumplings, 93 

Entire wheat baking powder 
biscuit, 281 

Entire wheat biscuit, 134 

Entire wheat and nut biscuit, 187 

Entire wheat bread, 134 

Entire wheat and nut bread, 187 

Entire wheat Parker House 
rolls, 468 

Five hour bread, 15 

French rolls, 287 

French toast, 281 

Fried biscuit, 138 

Fruit biscuit, 200 

Fruit and nut biscuit, 495 

Health biscuit, 422 

Health bread, 423 

Hot biscuit, 25 

Hot raised biscuit, 141 

Hot cross buns, 2S2 

Imperial sticks, 346 

Individual milk toast, 260 

Lettuce sandwiches, 388 

Luncheon rolls, 180 

Milk toast, too 

Nut bread sandwiches, 210 

Parker House rolls, 233 

Potato rolls, 380 

Raisin and nut sandwiches, 437 

Reheated baking powder bis- 
cuit, 33 



561 



562 



DAILY LIVING 



BREADS (continued) 

Reheated brown bread, 1 1 
Ribbon sandwiches, 291 
Rolled lettuce sandwiches, 210 
Rye biscuit 293 
Rye bread, 277 . 
Squash biscuit, 189 
Steamed graham bread, 127 
Toasted bread, i 
Toasted squash biscuit, 190 
Whole wheat bread, 245 
Zwieback, 307 

BREAKFAST BREADS 

Blueberry muffins, 427 
Cheese crackers. 149 
Corn cake, 71 
Corn muffins, 88 
Crisp crackers, 95 
English muffins, 152 
Entire wheat muffins, 130 
Graham muffins, 16 
Graham scones, 385 
Oatmeal muffins, 140 
Parker House corn gems, 325 
Popovers, 291; 
Raised buns, 299 
Rice muffins, 182 
Rye muffins, 25 
Spider corn cake, 247 
Spoon corn bread, 331 
Tea muffins, 340 
Toasted graham muffins, 16 
White muffins, 30 

CAKE AND FROSTING 

Birthday cake, 210 
Boiled frosting, 133 
Butter cake, 32 
Chocolate cake, 80 
Chocolate frosting, 32 
Chocolate nut cake, 133 
Chocolate raisin cake, 248 
Chocolate sponge cake, 376 
Confectioner's frosting, 328 
Cream pie, 514 
Cream sponge cake, 458 
Fig filling, 553 
Ginger cakes, 18 
Harrison cake, 228 
Jelly roll, 368 



CAKE AND FROSTING (continued) 

Lemon filled cake, 413 
Loaf chocolate cake, 284 
Maple frosting, 197 
Maple sugar frosting, 336 
Marshmallow filling, 345 
Marshmallow frosting, 284 
Mocha cake, 300 
Mocha frosting, 300 
Nut cake, 453 
Ornamental frosting, 210 
Shewsbury cakes, 551 
Small angel cakes, 243 
Small chocolate cakes, 262 
Sour cream cookies, 418 
Spice cakes, 95 
Sponge cake, 331 
Sponge drops, 291 
Sugar cookies, 13 
White cake, 345 
White nut cakes, 192 

CEREALS AND ,GRIDDLE CAKES 

Blueberry griddle cakes, 427 
Boiled Hominy, 127 
Buttermilk griddle cakes, 235 
Cereal with dates, 151 
Corn fritters, 513 
Corn griddle cakes, 246 
Fried mush, 202 
Grape nuts, 416 
Green corn griddle cakes, 458 
Hot shredded wheat, 245 
Hominy griddle cakes, 494 
Indian griddle cakes, 148 
Indian meal mush, 201 
Moulded oatmeal, 247 
Oat cereal, 19 
Rice griddle cakes, 21 
Scotch oatmeal, 247 
Shredded wheat, with black- 
berries, 463 
Sweet milk griddle cakes, 126 
Wheat cereal, 13 

Chafing Dish, 160, 161 

CHEESE 

Bean rarebit, 236 
Cheese croquettes, 29 
Cheese souffle, 17 



HOOD'S MILK 



563 



CHEESE (continued) 
Creamed cheese, 349 
Creamy Welsh rarebit, 252 
Fried cheese balls, 376 
Halibut rarebit, 88 
Rarebit on toast, 549 
Scalloped cheese, 127 
Tomato rarebit, 77 
Welsh rarebit, 28 
Welsh rarebit on toast, 549 

Children's Feeding, 481, 482 

CHRISTMAS GIVING 

Corn balls, no 

Fruit cake, 109 

German springerle cakes, no 

Maple cocoanut candy, 109 

Salted almonds, 109 

Walnut candy, 109 

Composition and Combination of 
Food, 57, 58 

COST OF LIVING 

November, 51, 52 
December, 105, 106 
January, 156, 157 
February, 206, 207 
March, 256, 257 
April, 303, 304 
May, 350, 351 
June, 391, 392 
July, 434, 435 
August, 475, 476 
September, 515, 516 
October, 537, 538 

Cuts of Meat, 165, 168 

DESSERTS (cold) 

Apple cream, 94 

Apple cream puffs, 94 

Apple tapioca, 129 

Baked custards, 26 

Baked custards with nuts, 550 

Banana pudding, 329 

Blackberry charlotte, 463 

Boiled custard, 329 

Bread and fruit mould, 83 

Cabinet pudding, 329 



DESSERTS (cold) (continued) 

Caramel charlotte, 511 

Caramel custards, 204 

Charlotte russe, 85 

Cheese and jelly, 22 

Chocolate bread pudding, 90 

Chocolate charlotte, 192 

Chocolate cup custards, 472 

Chocolate jumbles, 342 

Chocolate rice meringue, 252 

Coffee jelly, 14 

Cold gingerbread, 418 

Corn balls, no 

Cream jelly, 430 

Cream sponge pie, 426 

Dates with whipped cream, 337 

Date whip, 1 50 

Easter pudding, 285 

Floating island, 289 

Fruit trifle, 81 

Gingerbread cream pie, 508 

Ginger cakes, 202 

Ginger drop cakes, 202 

Grapefruit jelly, 349 

Grape juice jelly, 512 

Hermit cookies, 240 

Individual cocoa jelly, 307 

Individual wheat crisps, 307 

Irish moss blanc mange, 187 

Jellied figs, 139 

Jellied prunes, 76 

Maple cocoanut candy, no 

Maple custards, 234 

Molasses cookies, 87 

Moulded rice timbals, 332 

Orange charlotte, 145 

Orange custard pudding, 138 

Orange jelly, 78 

Peach tapioca pudding, 469 

Peanut cookies, 373 

Rice cream, 464 

Salted almonds, 109 

Snow pudding, 496 

Spice cookies, 29S 

Sponge pie, 290 

Strawberry whip, 348 

Tapioca cream, 91 

Walnut candy, 1 10 

Whipped cream filling, 503 

Yellow and white custards, 541 



564 



DAILY LIVING 



DESSERTS (Frozen) 

Banana ice cream, 326 
Cafe parfait, 394 
Caramel ice cream, 78 
Chocolate mousse, 334 
Chocolate whipped cream 

frozen, 554 
Coffee ice cream, 418 
Coffee mousse, 238 
Cranberry punch, 98 
Custard ice cream, 234 
Frozen chocolate, 241 
Frozen rice pudding, 232 
Frozen watermelon, 466 
Frozen whipped cream, 462 
Fruit cream, 278 
Fruit cream, with whipped 

cream, 278 
Ginger ice cream, 136 
Grape juice ice cream, 541 
Grape sherbet, 48 
Individual lemon ice, 308 
Individual vanilla ice cream, 308 
Lemon sherbet, 297 
Maple ice cream, 424 
Maple mousse, 246 
Marshmallow ice cream, 371 
Milk sherbet, 28 
Milk sherbet with egg, 465 
Orange milk sherbet, 185 
Orange sherbet in orange shells, 

210 
Pineapple ice cream, 453 
Raspberry sherbet, 429 
Strawberry ice, 377 
Strawberry ice cream, 343 
Vanilla ice cream, 12 
Walnut ice cream, 100 
White mousse, 302 

FRUIT AND PRESERVING 

Apples baked in casserole, 136 

Apples baked with dates, 493 

Apples baked with meringue, 500 

Baked apples, 12 

Baked apples with nuts, 470 

Baked pears, 507 

Bananas with lemon juice, 456 

Blueberries, 432 

Blushing apples, 92 



FRUIT AND PRESERVING (cont.) 
Canned peaches, 498 
Cannsd peaches and cream, 40 
Canned pears, 502 
Cantaloupes, 498 
Cantaloupes wuth vanilla ice 

cream, 501 
Currant jelly, 385 
Dried apple sauce, 237 
Fried bananas, 297 
Grapefruit, 128 
Grape jelly, 505 
Grape juice, 513 
Hot apple sauce, 84 
Huckleberries and milk, 460 
Orange Marmalade, 147 
Pears baked in casserole, 548 
Pear marmalade, 536 
Pickled peaches, 504 
Preserved quinces, 18 
Raspberries with medium cream, 

412 
Red currants, 381 
Red raspberries, 420 
Rhubarb jelly, 292 
Rhubarb marmalade, 371 
Rhubarb sauce, 286 
Sliced bananas, 462 
Sliced oranges, loi 
Sliced peaches with light cream, 

464 
Sliced pineapple, 384 
Sliced plums, 497 
Spiced baked sweet apples, 467 
Spiced grapes, 537 
Stewed figs, 38 
Stewed figs with nuts, 545 
Stewed grapes, 512 
Stewed prunes, 74 
Watermelon, 466 

HOT DESSERTS 

Apple dumplings, 21 
Apple fritters, 200 
Apple Indian pudding, 144 
Apple rice pudding, 432 
Baked tapioca pudding, 290 
Baldwin pudding, 73 
Bananas baked in skin, 154 
Banana fritters, 24 
Banana shortcake, 344 



HOOD'S MILK 



565 



HOT DESSERTS (continued) 

Blackberry shortcake, 424 
Blueberry gingerbread, 461 
Blueberry pudding, 427 
Buttermilk doughnuts, 184 
Chocolate bread pudding, 90 
Chocolate cottage pudding, 279 
Chocolate pudding, 233 
Christmas plum pudding, 98 
Coffee souffle, 339 
Cottage pudding, 335 
Cranberry pudding, 133 
Cream cakes, 382 
Cream puffs, 341 
Doughnuts, 36 
Fried pancakes, 275 
German apple cake, 239 
Indian pudding, 23 
Indian pudding with whipped 

cream, 508 
Indian tapioca, 535 
Maine gingerbread, 17 
Old fashioned blackberry short- 
cake, 473 
Old fashioned peach shortcake, 

506 
Old fashioned strawberry short- 
cake, 349 
Orange shortcake, 86 
Peach dumplings, 502 
Peach fritters, 494 
Peach pie, 503 
Peach tapioca, 469 
Pineapple fritters, 288 
Popovers with maple syrup, 341 
Prune souffle, 103 
Queen pudding, 25 
Raised doughnuts, 506 
Raspberry shortcake, 416 
Rice pudding, 86 
Scalloped rhubarb, 378 
Sour milk gingerbread, 422 
Steamed apple pudding, 139 
Steamed blueberry pudding, 427 
Steamed cottage pudding, 298 
Steamed fruit pudding, 41 
Steamed graham pudding, 200 
Steamed pudding, 15 
Steamed suet pudding, 496 
Strawberry shortcake, 336 



PASTRY AND PIES 

Apple pie, 137 

Apple pie with foamy sauce, 549 
Apple pie with ice cream, 536 
Apple pie with whipped cream, 

471 
Apple tarts, 455 
Banbury tarts, 295 
Blackberry pie, 459 
Blueberry pie, 431 
Canned squash pie, 296 
Cheese straws, 154 
Cherry pie, 388 
Cocoanut custard pie, 325 
Cranberry pie, 189 
Currant pie, 420 
Custard pie, 155 
Dried apple pie, 233 
Lemon custard pie, 30 
Lemon filUng, 237 
Lemon pie, 237 
Maple custard pie, 370 
Meringue, 237 
Mince meat, 46 
Mince pie, 46 
Mince turnovers, 135 
One crust apple pie, 432 
Orange tarts, 187 
Pastry, 30 
Prune pie, 251 
Prune and rhubarb pie, 300 
Puff paste patties, 395 
Pumpkin pie, 76 
Rhubarb pie, 286 
Squash pie, 36 
Tarts, 99 
Welsh cheese cakes, 276 

EGGS 

Asparagus omelet, 417 
Baked creamed eggs, 345 
Boiled eggs, 250 
Bread omelet, 230 
Cheese omelet, 425 
Corn omelet, 472 
Creamed eggs, 13S 
Creamed scrambled eggs, 72 
Dropped egg, 259 
Dropped eggs, 288 
P2ggs, baked in tomatoes, 432 
Eggs and ham shirred, 389 



566 



DAILY LIVING 



EGGS (continued) 

Egg nog, 259 

Eggs, poached in cream, 284 

Eggs, scrambled with tomato, 

16 
Eggs, soft cooked, 246 
Eggs, with tomato sauce, 204 
Eggs, with tomato and green 

pepper, 160 
Fish omelet, 244 
Foamy egg nog, 259 
Fried eggs and bacon, 275 
Green pepper omelet, 468 
Ham omelet, 294 
Hard boiled eggs, 253 
Omelet, 75 

Omelet, with bacon, 462 
Parsley omelet, 376 
Rice omelet, 235 
Salmon omelet, 463 
Scotch woodcock, 160 
Scrambled eggs, 19 
Scrambled eggs on toasted 

bre^d, 425 
Spanish omelet, 179 

FISH 

Baked bluefish, with egg sauce, 



420 
Baked 

197 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 

34 
Baked 

Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 



cod, with tomato sauce, 

creamed shad roe, 287 
fillet flounder, 201 
fillet haddock, 90 
fillet halibut, 45 
finnan haddie, 41 
flounders, 415 
haddock, with salt pork, 

haddock, with fish stuff- 

299 

halibut, 81 

mackerel, 376 

salmon, 387 

shad, 330 

shad roe, 283 

smelts, 141 

stuffed bluefish, 373 

stuffed fillet halibut, 196 



FISH (continued) 

Baked swordfish, 368 

Bluefish souffle, 421 

Boiled fish, 24 

Boiled salmon, 379 

Boiled swordfish, 455 

Broiled bluefish, 412 

Broiled cod steak, 283 

Broiled finnan haddie, 416 

Broiled oysters, 180 

Broiled salt fish, 369 

Broiled schrod, 381 

Broiled shad, 341 

Broiled shad roe, 341 

Clam chowder, 126 

Clam fritters, 233 

Clam stew, 329 

Cod, boiled in milk, 254 

Cod steak, baked with cheese, 

552 
Cod, stuffed with oysters, 302 
Creamed clams, 147 
Creamed codfish, 23 
Creamed cod, with shredded 

wheat, 296 
Creamed finnan haddie, 42 
Creamed fish and potatoes, 368 
Creamed fish in baked potatoes, 

Creamed salmon and peas, 414 
Creole oysters (chafing dish), 

160 
Delmonico finnan haddie, 422 
Devilled scallops, 160 
Fish balls, 27 
Fish balls in pork fat, 252 
Fish cakes, 25 
Fish cakes, with dropped eggs, 

33^ 
Fish chowder, 75 

Fish croquettes, 91 

Fish and potato cutlets, 255 

Fish in ramekins, 281 

Fish souffle, 134 

Fish stuffing, 299 

Fish timbals, 238 

Flounders stuffed with mashed 

potatoes, 421 

Flounders in pork fat, 471 

Fresh cod croquettes, 540 



HOOD'S MILK 



567 



FISH (continued) 

Fricassee of lobster and mush- 
rooms, 161 

Fried clams, 325 

Fried cod steak, 203 

Fried flounders, 145 

Fried halibut, 189 

Fried smelts, 154 

Fried swordfish, 375 

Hashed fish, 35 

Halibut baked with cheese, Sy 

Halibut hollandaise, 81 

Individual fish a la creme, 306 

Individual grilled oysters, 306 

Individual moulded fish, 306 

Lobster creole, 162 

Lobster cutlets, 395 

Onion dressing, 18 

Oven cooked fish and potato 
croquettes, 540 

Oysters and cream, 160 

Oyster stufiing, 90 

Pan broiled mackerel, 386 

Planked fish, 276 

Planked shad, 340 

Potatoes creamed with salt fish, 

251 
Raw oysters, 249 
Reheated finnan haddie, 104 
Salmon and potatoes, 380 
Salt fish hash, 202 
Salt fish with salt pork, 251 
Scalloped clams, 240 
Scalloped fish, 31 
Scalloped fish and oysters, 232 
Scalloped oysters, 83 
Scalloped salmon, 454 
Shad roe croquettes, 330 
Smelts baked in cream, 190 
Smelts in pork fat, 509 
Steamed clams, 367 
Steamed Halibut, 95 
Steamed salmon, 413 
Stuffed haddock, 17 
Stuffed shad, 346 

Food Composition, 70 

Food for Season, 113, 114 

Formal Serving, 355, 356 

For the Invalid, 215, 216 

Four Course Luncheons, 394, 395 



Hints for the Housekeeper, 108, 

159 

Individual Cooking for Convales- 
cent, 306, 308 

Introduction to Daily Living, xi, 
xii 

Invalid Recipes, 259, 260 

LOWERING THE COST OF LIVING 

November, 53 
December, 107 
January, 158 
February, 208 
March, 258 
April, 305 
May, 352 
June, 393 
July, 436 
August, 477 
September, 517 
October, 539 

MEAT 

Baked broiler chicken, 244 
Baked sausage, 92 
Bechamel chicken, 29 
Bechamel turkey, 49 
Beef croquettes, 229 
Boiled chicken, 142 
Boiled tongue, 348 
Bottled beef tea, 259 
Breaded lamb chops, 84 
Breaded pork chops, 551 
Breaded tongue, 367 
Breaded tripe, 428 
Broiled beef juice, 259 
Broiled forequarter chops, 145 
Broiled ham, 292 
Broiled lamb chops, 495 
Broiled leg of lamb, 240 
Broiled liver and bacon, 543 
Broiled round steak, 146 
Broiled steak with onions, 236 
Broiled veal steak, 341 
Broiled tripe, 146 
Cannelon of beef, 20 
Carni con chili, 230 
Casserole of chicken, 198 
Casserole of lamb chops, 184 
Casserole of stuffed veal, 328 



568 



DAILY LIVING 



MEAT (continued) 

Chicken broth, with rice, 129 

Chicken and celery creamed, 37 

Chicken, with creamed horse- 
radish, 372 

Chicken croquettes, 235 

Chicken and curried rice, 143 

Chicken pie, 72 

Chicken and potato creamed, 73 

Chicken stew, 93 

Chicken stew, with peas, 332 

Chicken timbals, 459 

Cold braised fowl, 428 

Cold lamb, with gravy, 137 

Cold roast goose, loi 

Cold spiced beef, 338 

Corned beef croquettes, 187 

Corned beef and green pepper 
hash, 385 

Corned beef hash, 188 

Cottage pie, 179 

Cracker stuffing, 191 

Creamed beef, 234 

Creamed chicken on toast, 186 

Creamed chicken, with peppers, 

551 
Creole steak, 288 

Creole veal, 464 

Curried veal steak, 456 

Curry of lamb, 327 

Dried beef, with white sauce, 

245 
English beef soup, 102 

Fillet of beef, 394 

Fricassee of chicken, 36 

Fricassee of lamb, 23 

Fricassee of pork, 195 

Fricassee of veal, 294 

Fowl, Southern style, 11 

Fried sausages, 510 

Hamburg roast, 374 

Hindquarter roast lamb, 495 

Hot corned beef, 186 

Individual chicken pies, 337 

Irish stew, 248 

Lamb croquettes, 137 

Lamb cutlets, 275 

Lamb and pea stew, 193 

Lamb and potato stew, 44 

Lamb and rice stew, 547 



MEAT (continued) 

Lamb souffle, 242 

Macaroni, with meat, 281 

McDonald chicken, 162 

Meat balls, 94 

Meat pie, 86 

Minced lamb, 327 

Minced veal on toast, 344 

Oven broiled bacon, 73 

Oven broiled forequarter chops, 

433 
Oyster stuffing for chicken, 185 

Planked chicken, 382 

Planked steak, 250 

Pot roast, 77 

Potato stuffing, 97 

Pressed chicken, 418 

Reheated beef, 79 

Reheated casserole of veal, 467 

Reheated goose, 100 

Reheated pot roast, 542 

Reheated roast veal, 472 

Reheated veal loaf, 334 

Rib roast beef, 506 

Roast beef, 204 

Roast chicken, 27 

Roast goose, 97 

Roast lamb, 43 

Roast leg of veal, 342 

Roast pork, 194 

Roast turkey, 47 

Roasted lamb chops, 546 

Roasted pork chops, 42 

Scotch broth, 32 

Sliced cannelon of beef, 22 

Southern broiled chicken, 140 

Stewed fowl, 336 

Stuffed leg of lamb, 191 

Stuffed roast lamb, 546 

Stuffed roast veal, 278 

Stuffed rolled roast, 39 

Stuffing, 28 

Tripe in batter, 277 

Tripe, with brown sauce, 417 

Tripe, with tomato sauce, 251 

Turkey croquettes, 151 

Veal broth, with vegetables, 378 

Veal cutlets, 286 

Veal pot pie, 280 



HOOD'S MILK 



569 



MEAT (continued) 

Veal, reheated with tomatoes, 

474 
Veal soup, 3^^ 
Veal and vegetable pie, 579 
Victoria chicken, 162 

MENUS 

November, i-io 
December, 59-69 
January, 115-125 
February, 169-178 
March, 217-227 
April, 265-274 
May, 314--324 
June, 357-366 
July, 400-410 
August, 442-452 
September, 483-492 
October, 524-534 

Milk as Food, vii-x 

SALADS 

Asparagus salad, 193 
Asparagus and egg salad, 386 
Baked bean salad, 383 
Banana salad, 387 
Banana and lettuce salad, 181 
Banana and nut salad, 41 1 
Beet green salad, 326 
Bluefish salad, 373 
Bluefish and egg salad, 412 
Cabbage salad, 26 
Cabbage and nut salad, 183 
Canned beet salad, 344 
Cauliflower and beet salad, 546 
Celery and nut salad, 194 
Celery and nut salad in apples, 

149 
Cheese balls, with lettuce, 195 
Cheese and jelly salad, 332 
Chicken salad, 15 
Chicken and tomato salad, 459 
Christmas salad, 98 
Cucumber salad, 382 
Cucumber and green pepper 

salad, 426 
Dandelion salad, 339 
Dressed lettuce, 29 
Egg salad, 335 



SALADS (continued) 

French fruit salad, 228 

Fish salad, 335 

German potato salad, 294 

Golden rod salad, 464 

Grapefruit salad, 282 

Grapefruit and shredded lettuce, 

132 
Grapefruit and nut salad, 130 
Kidney bean salad, 102 
Lettuce and apple salad, 25 
Lettuce and boiled dressing 

salad, 292 
Lettuce and green pepper salad, 

342 
Lettuce and red pepper salad, 

Lettuce and walnut salad, 287 
Lima bean salad, 553 
Lobster salad, 394 
Moulded cheese salad, 242 
Onion and lettuce salad, 339 
Orange salad, 71 
Orange and celery salad, 79 
Pineapple salad, 289 
Pineapple and nut salad, 430 
Pineapple and strawberry salad, 

384 
Potato salad, 40, 182 
Potato and beet salad, 347 
Potato and egg salad, 370 
Pressed chicken salad, 419 
Radish and lettuce salad, 370 
Spinach salad, 253 
String bean salad, 280 
String bean and green pepper 

salad, 537 
Tomato salad, 389 
Tomato and celery salad, 512 
Tomato jelly salad, 104 
Vegetable salad, 199, 369 

SAUCES 

Boiled dressing, 15 

Boiled dressing, with oil, 347 

Boiled dressing, with whipped 

cream, 369 
Boiled oil dressing, 253 
Brown sauce, 286 
Butter gravy, 18 
Caper sauce, 241 



570 



DAILY LIVING 



SAUCES (continued) 

Caramel syrup, 275 

Cheese sauce, 183 

Chocolate cream filling, 514 

Chocolate sauce, 12, 384 

Cocktail sauce, 249 

Creamed boiled dressing, 199 

Cream filling, 382 

Cream mayonnaise dressing, 386 

Cream oil dressing, 279 

Creole sauce, 146 

Currant jelly sauce, 24, 191 

Egg sauce, 379 

Fish gravy, 375 

Fish sauce, 254 

Foamy sauce, 497 

French dressing, 26 

Fruit mayonnaise, 143 

Gravy, 27 

Hard sauce, 21 

Hollandaise sauce, 231 

Hollandaise sauce, with vinegar, 

427 
Horseradish Hollandaise, 247 
Hot custard sauce, 16 
Individual cream sauce, 307 
Lemon cream sauce, 133 
Lemon syrup, 126 
Maple sauce, 239 
Mint sauce, 241 
Molasses sauce, 103 
Nut sauce, 297 
Onion sauce, 343 
Pickle sauce, 460 
Quick mayonnaise dressing, 79 
Salad dressing sauce, 413 
Sauce tartare, 141 
Savory French dressing, 244 
Spanish sauce, loi 
Sour cream dressing, 373 
Strawberry sauce, 347 
Tartar sauce, 285 
Tomato sauce, 84 
Whipped cream, 20 
Whipped cream dressing, 182 
Whipped cream sauce, 48 
White sauce, 24 
White sauce, with peas, 243 
Yellow sauce, 58 



School Luncheons, 518 

Serving, 31 1-3 13 

Serving Food for Convalescent, 
263-266 

Suggestions for Afternoon Teas, 

437 
Suggestions for Buying General 

Supplies, xiii 

SOUPS 

Asparagus soup, 417 
Baked bean soup, 17 
Baked bean cream soup, 38 
Beef broth, with macaroni, 338 
Black bean soup, 236 
Cheese cream soup, 280 
Clam bisque, 229 
Clam bouillon, 367 
Clear soup stock, 394 
Clearing soup stock, 47 
Corn chowder, 82 
Cream of celery soup, 20 
Cream of corn soup, 188 
Cream lima bean, 152 
Cream of onion soup, 71 
Cream of pea soup, 202 
Creole soup, 553 
Emergency soup, 22 
Fish bouillon, 277 
Fish cream soup, 255 
Hygienic soup, 87 
Individual farina soup, 306 
Individual hygienic soup, 306 
Lamb barley broth, 200 
Lamb cream soup, 35 
Leftover chicken soup, with rice, 

419 
Lobster stew, 161 
Oyster soup, 535 
Oyster stew, 23 
Potato soup, 141 
Potato soup, with cheese, 346 
Salt fish chowder, 422 
Spinach soup, 181 
Spinach cream soup, 301 
Split pea soup, 183 
Squash soup, loi 
St. Germain corn soup, 136 
Sweet potato, 195 



i 



HOOD'S MILK 



571 



SOUPS (continued) 

Tomato bouillon, 47 
Tomato cream soup, 82 
Tomato and green pea soup, 463 
Tomato and rice, 241 
Tomato soup, 97 
Tomato soup, with stock, 339 
Turkey soup, 151 
Turnip cream soup, 23 
White clear soup, 296 
White cream soup, 14 
White soup, with leftover rice, 
502 

VEGETABLES 

Apple rings, 42 

Asparagus, with Hollandaise, 

377 
Asparagus, w'ith melted butter, 

379 
Asparagus on toast, 193 

Baked bananas, 92 

Baked beans, 26 

Baked beans, reheated, 1 1 

Baked beans, with butter, 428 

Baked beans, with olive oil, 325 

Baked beans, wnth tomato, 142 

Baked kidney beans, 99 

Baked macaroni, with cheese, 96 

Baked potatoes, 19 

Baked potato souffle, 383 

Baked onions, 35 

Baked shell beans, 467 

Bananas in sausage fat, 510 

Beans, baked w'ith cream, 370 

Beans, baked with onions, 387 

Bechamel cauliflower, 14 

Beet greens, 326 

Bermuda onions, with syrup, t,;^7 

Boiled corn, 432 

Boiled macaroni, 461 

Boiled onions, 28 

Boiled potatoes, t8 

Boiled shell beans, 498 

Boiled squash, 34 

Boiled sweet potatoes, 543 

Broiled potatoes, 145 

Broiled sweet potatoes, 91 

Broiled tomatoes, 425 

Buttered Brussels sprouts, 506 



VEGETABLES (continued) 

Boiled cabbage, 184 
Boiled parsnips, 129 
Buttered canned beets, 225 
Cabbage, scalloped with cheese, 

2 2 
Canned peppers, 538 
Canned tomatoes, 496 
Cauliflower, 1 1 
Cauliflower, with cheese sauce, 

472 
Cauliflower, with Hollandaise, 

552 
Cauliflower, scalloped with 

cheese, 44 
Cheese potato puff, 431 
Chili sauce, 500 
Chopped hashed potatoes, 466 
Cold baked beans, 419 
Corn custard, 247, 327 
Corn fritters, 140 
Corn oysters, 329 
Cranberry sauce, 47 
Creamed asparagus, 372 
Creamed asparagus on toast, 

372 
Creamed Brussels sprouts, 507 
Creamed celery and cheese, 144 
Creamed celery on toast, 484 
Creamed corn on toast, 469 
Creamed lima beans, 330 
Creamed onions, 149 
Creamed parsnips, 286 
Creamed potatoes, 19 
Creamed potatoes and cheese, 

420 
Creamed potato balls, 452 
Creamed string beans, 429 
Creamed turnips, 89 
Creamed vegetables, 368 
Creole rice, 153 
Dandelion greens, 338 
Delmonico celery, 196 
Delmonico cream potatoes, 348 
Delmonico potatoes, 132 
Duchess potatoes, 243 
French fried potatoes, 130 
French fried sweet potatoes, 151 
French rice, 376 
French spinach, 423 



572 



DAILY LIVING 



VEGETABLES (continued) 

Fried bananas, 470 

Fried hominy, 155 

Fried potato cakes, 13 

Georgian sweet potatoes, 230 

Green peas. 380 

Green peas, with cream, 430 

Hashed brown potatoes, 96 

Hominy balls, 128 

Hulled corn, 245 

Imitation new potatoes, 371 

Julienne vegetables, 198 

Lettuce, with sugar and vinegar, 

467 
Lyonnaise potatoes, 296 
Macaroni, iDaked with tomato, 

254 
Macaroni, with cheese, 96 
Macaroni, with tomato sauce. 

Macaroni, with white sauce, 299 

Mashed potatoes, 12 

Mashed sweet potatoes, 89 

Mashed turnips, 24 

Mint jelly, 242 

New beets, 386 

New beets, with dressing, 415 

New potatoes, 413 

Nut loaf, 232 

Nut souffle, 289 

Parsnip fritters, 150 

Peas creamed, 192 

Pickles, 499 

Pickled beets, 148 

Pickled red cabbage, 76 

Potatoes, baked with cheese, 82 

Potatoes, baked in half shell, 

298 
Potato balls, 142 
Potato croquettes, 78 



VEGETABLES (continued) 

Potatoes, with parsley butter, 

346 
Potato puff, 150 
Potato roses, 225 
Red peppers, with Creole rice, 

329 
Rice balls, 185 
Rice border, 327 
Rice, with cheese, 74 
Rice croquettes, 37 
Roast potatoes, 43 
Scalloped cauliflower, 473 
Scalloped onions, 503 
Scalloped potatoes, 89 
Scalloped tomatoes, 239 
Shredded potatoes, 190 
Sliced tomatoes, 461 
Souffle potato roses, 276 
Southern sweet potatoes, 140 
Spaghetti, with tomato sauce, 

228 
Spanish beans, 233 
Steamed rice, 20 
Steamed squash, 135 
String beans, 428 
Stewed lima beans, 103 
Stewed mushrooms, 161 
Stewed tomatoes, 21 
Stuffed red peppers, 329 
Summer squash, 464 
Sweet potato croquettes, 542 
Sweet rice croquettes, 388 
White sauce, with peas, 235 
Winter spinach, 180 
Yorkshire pudding, 204 

Table of Weights and Measures, 

xiv 
Waste of Food, 52 t— 523 



M 



HOOD'S MILK 573 



A Model Milk Supply and Its Cost 

By JOHN HALE 

By Courtesy New England Magazine 

EVERY loving mother, and almost every intelligent housekeeper 
as well, understands the necessity of clean, hygienic milk. 
But the conditions under which the milk supply of a great 
city is produced and handled are very different from those under which 
the dainty housewife secures the sweetness of perfect cleanhness withm 
the sanctuary of her own home. And even there she is coming to real- 
ize that science is her best protector and friend. But to secure even 
approximate cleanliness in a great public milk supply requires a scien- 
tific knowledge, a practical training, and an indefatigable attention to 
detail that only enthusiastic devotion to an ideal could call forth. 

A score of years ago the present president of the H. P. Hood & 
Sons Co. graduated from the Agricultural Department of Dartmouth 
College (now the New Hampshire State Agricultural College located 
at Durham). He had become that worker of miracles, an intelhgent 
enthusiast, and his ideal was — a perfect milk supply. , . , , 

Entering the firm, established forty years before by his father, 
Harvey P. Hood, Esq., which was even then a foremost distributor of 
milk in Greater Boston, he applied his scientific training to the practical 
daily needs of the business. 

Thus, before Boards of Health had taken the matter up, before the 
United States Department of Agriculture had turned its attention to 
the subject, Mr. Hood began the practical demonstration of scientific 
principles in the distribution of milk. His firm thus became pioneers 
in the right methods of production and handling of this important food 
supply. They have also been the educators of the people into a knowl- 
edge of what they ought to demand, in justice to their own health and 
that of their children. , j ^- • 

And much as has been written on the subject, popular education is 
still the prime need which every phase of the situation emphasizes 
anew. The public has yet to realize that "clean milk, regardless of 
price, is the cheapest variety to purchase." Says Prof. James U. 
Jordan, Inspector of Milk, Boston, Mass., " It is certain that until the 
public is brought to the point of demanding clean milk, and of being 
willing to pay for it, general supplies of this type of milk will be 
unobtainable." , , , r j .t 

A perfect milk is a perfect food. It is the balanced food — the one 
single article that contains all the elements of nutrition in nature s per- 
fect combination. . i i • 

Bread, beef, all other articles of common consumption are lacking 
in some essential element. Milk alone is a complete food. It is also 



574 DAILY LIVING 



the cheapest food, furnishing the largest amount of nutriment at the 
least cost. 

But alas ! Milk is also the most easily contaminated of all articles 
of food. Every point in its production and delivery is a danger point. 
When people drink and feed their infant children on milk produced 
from a pasturage of city dumps, handled often by men whom they 
would not allow to cross the thresholds of their homes, and put up in a 
slovenly way in a filthy shed, they may congratulate themselves on the 
low price which they are paying, but it is safe to say that it is the cost- 
hest bit of economy in which they ever indulged. 

Mr. Hood discovered at once that if he was to improve existing 
conditions he must begin at the very foundation, — the farm and the 
herd. The Hood milk is produced from the sweet, pure pasturage of 
the hills of New Hampshire, Vermont, and Maine, partly at the beauti- 
ful Hood Farm, at Derry, N. H., partly at other regularly inspected 
farms that the company only admits to its lists after the most rigid 
tests, employing for the purpose a force of scientific experts, including 
graduate veterinarians, who examine minutely everything pertaining to 
the farm, the herd, and the manner of handling the milk. Samples 
from each cow are sent to the laboratory and subjected to careful 
microscopic and chemical tests. 

This process is in itself so instructive that the reader will be inter- 
ested to learn more of it. The best way of doing this is to visit the 
company's laboratory in Charlestown, where a cordial welcome is 
always extended. 

The most satisfactory test of the cleanliness of milk is the bacterio- 
logical test. For under uncleanly conditions the bacteria increase with 
enormous rapidity. The Massachusetts law requires as the standard of 
safety that a cubic centimeter of milk should contain not more than five 
hundred thousand bacteria. In the Hood laboratories the bacteria are 
actually counted and often reaches as low a figure as one hundred, 
while the firm are working toward an absolutely sterile milk. 

The count is managed as follows: The milk is diluted in exact 
proportions, much after the manner practiced in the compounding of 
homoeopathic medicines. When a dilution is obtained containing one 
part of milk to ten thousand of steriUzed water a portion of the result- 
ing liquid is mixed with beef extract, thickened with gelatin, to pro- 
duce a "culture." This is allowed to stand at a temperature of blood 
heat for thirty-six hours. In that time each germ will develop about it 
a small colony appearing as spots on the glass disc containing the cult- 
ure. These spots are easily counted with the naked eye. As each 
single germ may be depended upon to produce its colony under such 
favoring conditions, the number of these colonies multiplied by ten 
thousand gives the bacterial proportion of the milk. This test is act- 
ually carried out in the Hood laboratories for every lot of tnilk sefit 07it. 
Additional tests are continually made of the product of individual 
cows whenever the slightest suspicion attaches to a herd. All this is 
done with costly apparatus by trained experts. 

If the farm proves to be a sanitary one, well able to supply the 
cattle with healthful, nourishing foods; if the stable is well located on 



HOOD'S MILK 575 



dry land ; if the dairy house is scrupulously clean ; if a plentiful supply 
of ice is always on hand; if the breeds of cattle are up to the mark, and 
if the analysis of the milk shows purity, richness, and keeping quality, 
then, and only then, is the output considered. 

A contract wdth the farmer to take all the milk which he produces 
follows. He in turn agrees to have his cattle and buildings and all 
implements used always open for the company's inspection, A score 
card, devised by Mr. Hood, and followed by the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture in their work, keeps a continuous record of each 
farm in all points essential to a perfect milk. This is a great safeguard, 
and one of the vital points of the system. 

The pail used for the milking is one which has been devised by the 
Hoods, and is being urged upon the acceptance of the farmers. It 
strains the milk through absorbent cotton, both as it enters and as it 
leaves the pail, which is also perfectly protected from all atmospheric 
impurities. 

The milk is then immediately cooled to a temperature of forty 
degrees, and carried as quickly as possible to the stations, where trains 
of refrigerator cars await it, and it is hurried at express speed to Greater 
Boston, where it is unloaded at the great milk depots of the firm. 

The result of all this care and precaution is that every customer has 
delivered at his door daily, pure, rich, sweet, clean milk. 

A very interesting part of the Hood plant is the exquisite room set 
apart for the production of a standardized milk for infant's use. This 
milk is a combination of specially selected milk and cream, to which is 
added in the proper quantities lime-water and milk sugar. It is put up 
in sealed six-ounce, sterilized bottles, eight to the box. This is known 
as modified milk, which is almost without exception prescribed by 
physicians for " bottle babies " under a year old. 

Now' it is obvious that all this costs a great deal of money. It is a 
very different thing from handling milk in the "any old way "of the 
past. That it is impossible to produce milk of a lower quality than this 
even, milk that will barely pass the public inspector's tests, at the prices 
that have become traditional, is the unanimous testimony of all who 
have tried it. 

Milk at nine cents a quart is not only cheap, but it is too cheap for 
the maintenance of proper precautions of absolute safety and high 
quality. 

It is a curious fact that the recent agitation against the "high" 
prices charged for milk in Boston resulted in a raising of that price in 
many of the better residence districts. Why? Because the agitation 
brought out the facts, and intelligent people awoke to demand the 
kind of economy that they ought to have, the only true economy, good 
milk at a practicable cost. 

It must appeal to every intelligent housekeeper that the price-basis 
for such an article must include the cost of perfect hygienic protection. 

As to the farm itself, a visit tells the story better than any descrip- 
tion that we could pen. The moment the wayfarer strikes the wind- 
ing roadway that leads up to the old homestead he becomes milk 
hungry. 



576 DAILY LIVING 



R P. HOOD & SONS 



SA-NTT.ARY INSPECTION OF D.AIRIES 



D.AIR'i' SCC«E CARD 

.>n^^sa ic rprsor as. Tiilnre ine°rTT'£^ 

USmZ STATES DEP.AJ^TNENT OF AC^CS^TJKL 



P.O. -^ State.. 



i: — "'i iiipIh I ■Jliiiij^ 

C^^-- ' -^T^ prodaced daOj 



Sii r3& is defiwred.. 



JitsasT ^o Diate o€ iaspediaB , 190 

l?T^)r4i»ir<: 



(Sgmeij 

Imsp\tv»: 



HOOD S MILK 



577 



OETA.JI_eO SOOSE- 



auiP'^t^' 




sL 



578 DAILY LIVING 



As he scents the pure air and his eye dwells on the soft, bosky 
pastures, he says to himself, " How good a glass of milk, freshly poured 
at that old kitchen door, would taste !" 

Then he looks over the immaculate dairy, the scrupulous handling 
and sealing of the milk for transportation, and learns of the fast trains 
that hurry it to Boston in the cool of the early morning, and he realizes 
with new satisfaction that it is possible to receive a glass of milk over 
the counter in the great city, or have a jar left at his house, that is not 
only as good but probably a great deal better than he ever quaffed as 
a barefooted boy at ins old farm home among the hills. 

There are few more picturesque incidents of rural life than these 
fast milk trains carrying the milk supply from the green hills one hun- 
dred miles away, and bringing it to Greater Boston in less time than the 
old-time producer could carry it in his cart from a very few miles out. 
The very flavor of the hills and pastures, woods and the streams of the 
old New England farms seems to be preserved in this perfect sanitary 
milk, and brought to the doors of every city dweller. 



II 

II 



HOOD'S MILK 579 



H. P. HOOD & SONS 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Milk, Cream and All Dairy Products 

General Offices and Chemical and Bacteriological Laboratory 

494 Rutherford Avenue, Charlestown, Mass. 

'Phone, Charlestown 600 



DAIRY LABORATORY 
70 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Mass. 

•phone. Back Bay 4430 



HOOD'S MODEL CREAMERY 
7 Beacon Street and 53 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass. 

'Phone, Haymarket 2580 



BRANCHES 



24 Anson Street, Forest Hills, Mass. 'Phone, Jamaica 1010 

289 Pleasant Street, Watertown, Mass. 'Phone, Newton North 1340 

425 Main Street, Maiden, Mass. 'Phone, Maiden 1000 

193 Alley Street, Lynn, Mass. 'Phone, Lynn 1410 

252 Bridge Street, Salem, Mass. 'Phone, Salem 720 

629 Common Street, Lawrence, Mass. 'Phone, Lawrence 54 



FARM DEPARTMENT 
Hood Farm — 600 Acres, Derry, New Hampshire 



OCC 18 



