SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



TEXT-BOOKS ON EDUCATION, 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF TEACHING. By J. 
WELTON, M.A., Professor of Education in the Univer- 
sity of Leeds. Present price, 4s. 6d. 

PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION 
AND HYGIENE. By W. P. WELPTON, B.Sc. 4s. 6d. 

[In the press. 

SCHOOL HYGIENE. By R. A. LYSTER, M.D., Ch.B: 
B.Sc., D.P.H., County Medical Officer of Health for 
Hampshire, etc. 3s. 6d. 

VOICE TRAINING IN SPEECH AND SONG. By H. H. 
HULBERT, M.A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Lecturer on 
Voice Production and Examiner in Physical Education 
under the London County Council, etc. Is. 6d. 

THE SCIENCE OF SPEECH. An Elementary Manual of 
Phonetics for Teachers. By B. DUMVILLB, M. A. 2s. 6d. 

A companion volume to " Voice Training." 

[In the press. 

SCHOOL ORGANISATION. By S. E. BRAY, M. A., Inspector 
of Schools to the London County Council. 2s. 

SCHOOL TRAINING, By R. E. HUGHES, M.A., B.Sc. 2s. 

THE EDUCATIONAL IDEAS OF PESTALOZZI. By J. A. 
GREEN, B.A., Professor of Education in the University 
of Sheffield. Is. 

THE EDUCATIONAL IDEAS OF FROEBEL. By J. WHITE, 
D.So., Late Vice-Principal of the Home and Colonial 
School Society's Kindergarten Training College. Is. 



SCHOOL HYGIENE. 



BY 

ROBERT A. LYSTER, M.D., Cii.B., B.Sc. (LOND.), 
D.P.TI., B.SC. (PUBLIC HEALTH), 

COUNTY MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH FOR HAMPSHIRE, AND CHIEF MEDICAL 

OFFICER TO THE EDUCATION COMMITTEE OF THE HAMPSHIRE COUNTY COUNCIL; 

ASSISTANT LECTURER IN HYGIENE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF BIRMINGHAM. 

FORMERLY BACTERIOLOGIST AND ASSISTANT COUNTY MEDICAL 

OFFICER FOR THE WEST RIDING OF YORKSHIRE J MEDICAL 

OFFICER OF HEALTH FOR HANDSWORTH, ETC., ETC. 



Second Edition. 





LONDON: W. B. OLIVE 



157 DRUEY LANE, W.C. 
1908 



PREFACE. 



THE importance of Hygiene to the community at large, 
and more particularly to the younger members of the race, 
is now at last becoming generally recognised. Moreover, 
medical inspection of some kind has now become com- 
pulsory in schools. No excuse, therefore, is necessary for 
the appearance of this book, dealing especially with the 
hygiene of children and of school life : the experience of 
the author in lecturing to large bodies of teachers 
throughout the West Riding of Yorkshire and also in the 
Midlands has shown him that there is need for such a 
text-book. 

The subject-matter in this book largely consists of the 
material of the various courses of lectures to teachers 
referred to above. It is believed that it provides a 
thorough course in the practical hygiene of child and 
school life. Efforts have been made to make it self- 
contained, and to assume no previous knowledge of the 
subject, but at the same time care has been taken to avoid 
the introduction of an unnecessary proportion of theoretical 
information, and to explain the more difficult portions of 
the subject in the simplest language available. While 
fully recognising the value and importance of a sound 
knowledge of physiology to a teacher, yet the author has 
been careful to eliminate all unnecessary physiological 
facts from the book, and to include only such physio- 
logical details as are necessary for the clear explanation 
and appreciation of hygienic rules. One of his chief 
objects has been to demonstrate as simply as possible 
guch facts with regard to the growth, constitution, and 

v 



VI PREFACE. 

nurture of the child as will not only enable the teacher to 
take a new and much more interesting view of his work, 
but also to act as an intelligent assistant under the 
direction of the school doctor. It is obvious that if 
medical inspection is to have its full beneficial effects all 
teachers must be sufficiently trained in prs ctical hygiene to 
be able to co-operate with the medical officer : the school 
teacher must in fact stand in the same relation to the 
medical officer as the hospital nurse to the doctor. 

There is no doubt that a large amount of theoretical 
instruction in hygiene and physiology has been given in 
all grades of schools for many years, but such instruction 
appears to have produced little or no result. In the 
author's opinion this is the effect of too much theory and 
too little practice in the kind of instruction given. The 
lessons have been directed to explaining reasons for, 
instead of laying down the rules of a healthy life. More- 
over, few of the teachers have had instruction in the 
subject from experts. Another great force that has 
neutralised all such efforts is the lack of ventilation and 
general dirtiness of the schools. 

Indebtedness to the authors of numerous books and 
papers dealing with this subject has been acknowledged in 
many places throughout the text, but the author wishes 
to express the fact that his sense of obligation is far 
greater than would appear from the number of such 
quotations. Thanks are also due to Mr. Gr. E. Slim for 
nearly all the photographic illustrations, and to many 
friends for valuable help and suggestions. 

The second edition contains an additional chapter on the 
organisation of medical inspection in schools. 

ROBERT ARTHUR LYSTEft. 
HANDSWORTH. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I. 
THE SCHOOL BUILDING. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. INTRODUCTORY 1 

II. THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL ... ... ... ... ... 13 

III. THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING ... ... ... 23 

IV. LIGHTING AND HEATING ... ... ... ... ... 44 

V. VENTILATION 62 

VI. SANITARY APPLIANCES ..." 104 

PART II. 

THE SCHOLAR: 

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND THE LAWS OF HEALTH. 

I. SCHOOL FITTINGS 121 

II. POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES ... ... ... 136 

III. THE EYES AND EYESIGHT 172 

IV. THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE ... ... ... ... 198 

V. PERSONAL HYGIENE 213 

PART III. 

MEDICAL SUPERVISION AND SCHOOL MEDICINE 
AND SURGERY. 

I. INTRODUCTION 247 

II. THE DAY'S WORK 253 

III. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES ... 267 

IV. COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS ... ... ... 286 

V. CONSUMPTION 304 

VI. ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES ... ... ... ... 315 

VII. EPIDEMIC DISEASES 332 

VIII. SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION 348 

IX. THE ORGANIZATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 35J: 

INDEX 382 



EXTEACTS FROM THE MEMOKANDTTM 



ON 



MEDICAL INSPECTION OF CHILDREN 

UNDER SECTION 13 OP THE EDUCATION (ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS) 
ACT, 1907. 

[Issued by the Board of Education, November 1907.] 



The Board are convinced that the work of medical inspection 
cannot be properly accomplished by medical men without assistance. 
The teacher, the school nurse (where such exists), and the parents 
o r guardians of the child must heartily co-operate with the school 
medical officer. In whatever way the system be organised, its 
success will depend, immediately and ultimately, upon the cordial 
sympathy and assistance of the teachers 

From what has been said it will be clear that the fundamental 
principle of Section 13 of the new Act is the medical examination 
and supervision not only of children known, or suspected, to be 
weakly or ailing, but of all children in the elementary schools, wit h 
a view to adapting and modifying the system of education to the 
needs and capacities of the child, securing the early detection of 
unsuspected defects, checking incipient maladies at their onset, and 
furnishing the facts which will guide Education Authorities in 
relation to physical and mental development during school life. . . . 

It cannot be doubted that a large proportion of the common 
diseases and physical unfitness in this country can be substantially 
diminished by effective public health administration, combined with 
the teaching of hygiene and a realisation by teachers, parents, and 
children of its vital importance 



rli! 



PART I. 
THE SCHOOL BUILDING. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTEODUCTOEY. 
Health at School. 

The Hygiene of School Life is of paramount impor- 
tance in connection with the subjects of Political Economy 
and the prosperity of the nation. It must be taken 
into consideration by all those who are in any way 
connected with the education of the young, and 
especially by the teacher, if real success is to be achieved. 
Its importance is equal to that of the hygiene of the 
nursery, and its responsibilities are even greater. Un- 
doubtedly, both subjects have been very much neglected 
in the past by all classes of the community, but recent 
events show clearly that an increased amount of official 
and public attention is being directed to the improve- 
ment of the health of the children. 

Vast amounts of public money are being wasted in 
education because the children are not in the necessary 
physical condition to assimilate the instruction they are 
given. Sir John G-orst says : " The children are underfed, 
stunted, and suffering from a large percentage of prevent- 
able diseases. To make these poor little creatures learn 
multiplication tables and do sums is as cruel as forcing 

SCH. HYG. 1 



2 INTRODUCTORY. 

an underfed horse to work." Another source of waste 
and the cause of much mental injury is the forced teaching 
of unsuitable subjects. AS an illustration the regulations 
of the Board of Education which made Physiography a 
compulsory subject for girl pupil teachers may be men- 
tioned. The feminine mind is usually not attracted by 
such a science, and all who have had experience in teaching 
pupil teachers will agree that the subject is greatly dis- 
liked, and that the whole of such crammed knowledge 
quickly disappears when the examination is over. The 
substitution of Physiology and Hygiene for Physiography 
would be very popular with the students, and would result 
in a large percentage of the girls continuing their studies 
in these most important subjects when they were no 
longer pupil teachers. In a short time there would be 
no lack of well qualified teachers for the systematic 
teaching of the principles of hygiene in our elementary 
schools. 

From, all sides the Board of Education is being urged to 
give proper attention to the health of the children and the 
subject of physical improvement. Among the recommen- 
dations of the Royal Commission on Physical Training in 
Scotland is one that says : " Education Committees should 
have the command of medical advice and assistance in the 
supervision of schools : a systematic record of physical 
and health statistics should be kept: and a number of 
medical and sanitary experts should be added to the in- 
specting staff under the Education Department." Moreover 
there was recently the important manifesto, so extensively 
signed by medical men all over the country, urging the 
Department to develop and organise systematic teaching 
of temperance and hygiene in all schools. More recently, 
at a Conference on School Hygiene, organised by the 
Eoyal Sanitary Institute, and held at the University of 



INTRODUCTORY. 6 

London, the following resolutions were unanimously 
adopted : 

(1) That H.M. Inspectors of Schools should be quali- 

fied in hygiene and sanitation, and familiar with 
the development of child life. The Board of 
Education should therefore be urged to protect 
health in school life by appointing inspectors 
who are specialists in school hygiene. 

(2) That there should be regular and systematic 

medical inspection of children in schools of all 
grades, and that this important matter should 
be brought before the educational authorities of 
the country. 

Still more recently, at the Second International Congress 
on School Hygiene, held in London, similar opinions were 
expressed, and the recent Bill concerning the medical 
inspection of school children probably marks the com- 
mencement of a new era of educational work. 

Of course the conditions of the home life of the child are 
beyond the control of the educational authorities, but it 
must be remembered that the child spends nearly one half 
of its waking hours (a child of ten requires about twelve 
hours' sleep) at school. Hygienic conditions at school will 
therefore greatly influence its future life. Moreover, if 
proper instruction is given to all children in such subjects, 
there may be fairly expected an improvement in the con- 
ditions of life at home for the next generation. 

Early Injuries to the Body. 

It is during the dawn of life that lasting mental 
impressions are made, and the body so affected that 
the framework and delicate machinery of the future 
inan is made or marred. These impressions may lead 
the child on to happiness and health or to unhappiuess 



4 INTRODUCTORY. 

and disease. The form of the body, the shape of the limbs, 
the development of the organs, the cultivation of the 
senses, may be easily interfered with during childhood. 
How many infants are killed every week by improper 
feeding ! How many curved spines are due to a wrong 
position of sitting in school ! How many eyes have been 
injured by small print, fine stitches, bad lighting, or 
holding the book at a wrong distance ! How many lives are 
ruined by the effects of preventable disease caused by bad 
ventilation or the absence or inadequacy of medical super- 
vision and inspection! Such injuries will continue to be 
produced until specially qualified inspectors are appointed 
by the Board of Education, and all education . authorities 
employ the services of highly trained medical men. 

While this book has been going through the press the 
Board of Education has been compelled to consider the 
subject by the recent Bill concerning the medical inspection 
of school children. The new department has been wisely 
placed in the hands of a well known sanitarian of wide 
experience, and under his control some very important 
developments may be expected. 

Infantile Mortality. 

The alarming mortality among infants and children is 
strikingly illustrated by Farr, who follows the progress of 
1,000,000 children. Out of a million nearly 150,000 die 
during the first year of life. At the end of the second year 
nearly 210,000 are dead. There are only about 730,000 
survivors at the end of five years, and these are reduced to 
700,000 during the following five years. At the end of 
fifteen years the total number of deaths has amounted to 
almost 310,000. There is no doubt whatever that these 
figures could be enormously reduced by greater attention 
to hygiBne. For instance, although thorough instruction 



INTRODUCTORY. 5 

in health subjects and perfect hygienic surroundings would 
not directly affect the infants under five years of age, yet 
the ultimate effects would undoubtedly result in the future 
diminution of this extraordinary death rate. This desirable 
result would be brought about chiefly by first effecting an 
improvement in the physique of the children at present at 
school : these will be the fathers and mothers of the next 
generation, and their children will not only share in this 
physical improvement but will also be more carefully 
reared if the instructions that have been received at school 
have been given in such a way as to produce a lasting 
impression. 

The explanation of the failure at present is that we have 
lost sight of the essentials of education. Surely the most 
essential part of education should be a knowledge of the care 
of the body, the simple means of maintaining health, the 
avoidance of ill-health and disease, and the care of children. 
It is only by improving educational methods and making 
people really interested in themselves and their children 
that improvement in infantile mortality can be brought 
about. Improvement in sanitary conditions in towns and 
the surroundings of people can never bring about more 
than a very slight decrease in infantile mortality. It is 
often stated that people cannot be made temperate by Act 
of Parliament. It is much more true to say that people 
cannot be made healthy by Act of Parliament or by bene- 
ficial by-laws of towns. Many people put into sanitary 
houses amid the best of surroundings will live in a most 
disgusting way, and the health of infants reared by them 
is very little better than in the worst slum of a town. 

The neglect of essentials in our educational system was 
attributed by many of the delegates at the recent Hygiene 
Conference to the fact that our education has been so long 
directed by graduates of the older Universities, the majority 



6 INTRODUCTORY. 

of whom are notoriously ignorant of the most elementary 
principles of science and are therefore incapable of under- 
standing or realising the importance of the science of 
hygiene. 

Non-essential subjects are being piled into the already 
overloaded time-table, and when it is suggested that the 
essential subjects of the health and the care of the children 
should be taught the teachers exclaim : " How can we find 
time for them ? " The only way will be to severely prune 
and cut down the present list of subjects and restrict our- 
selves to essentials. 

The good lady's contention that she was fully qualified 
to have the care of children because she had already buried 
14 of her own might be paralleled by the present-day 
" educational experts " who, in proof of their knowledge 
and of the success of their system, might claim : 

(1) That a large percentage of children are perma- 

nently injured and handicapped for life by the 
present school conditions. 

(2) That most children leave school in appalling 

ignorance of such essential matters as the care 
of their own health and the proper care of 
children; and 

(3) That the average child leaves school with a 

smattering of a variety of non-essential subjects 
which it forgets altogether soon after its school 
life is finished. 

We have got into a narrow mechanical way of teaching, 
probably owing to the antiquated ideas of inspectors. The 
teaching of hygiene must be on sound practical lines. If it 
is to be taught on lines similar to those adopted in the 
case of ordinary elementary school subjects GTrammar, 
Geography, and History it will be useless. In present- 
day teaching there is an absurd lack of appreciation of the 



INTRODUCTORY. 7 

necessity for knowledge to be available and applicable to 
every-day life. If hygiene is properly taught in schools 
the constant opportunity to use such knowledge would 
prevent it being forgotten. Can we say as much of the 
present educational equipments of the average elementary 
school child ? 

Theory of " Survival of the Fittest." 

It is sometimes asserted by apparently intelligent 
people that this infantile mortality is a good thing ; that 
it weeds out from the masses the weak, the delicate, and 
the diseased, and leaves behind the stronger and better 
developed of the population ; that it eliminates the un- 
healthy, and is a benefit to the rest of mankind ; and that 
it therefore gives a teacher a better material to work upon. 

Fallacies involved. 

The argument is unsound. Leaving out of the question 
the morality of the result, there might be something to be 
said for it if the unhealthy conditions acted injuriously 
upon the weakly members of the community alone. But 
it is certain that the unhealthy surroundings at home and 
at school, and improper feeding and treatment during 
infancy and childhood, not only serve to kill off those who 
start life hampered with either actual disease or weak 
constitutions, but also lower the vitality and the resisting 
power of those who were originally perfectly healthy, and 
these, if they survive so long, grow up into men or women 
of indifferent physique. These injured children, moreover, 
are exceedingly poor material for the teacher and can 
never compete intellectually or physically with their more 
fortunate schoolfellows. Another result of these consti- 
tutional injuries that are received during infancy is that 
such children offer very small resistance to epidemic 
diseases. Schools in districts where the physical standard 



8 INTRODUCTORY. 

of the children is low are most likely to be nearly emptied 
during any severe epidemic. The death rate at such 
times and among such children is always abnormally high. 

Suggested Remedies. 

The question that naturally arises is, What can be done 
to stop this dreadful slaughter of the innocents and this 
enormous depreciation of national physique ? The only 
hope appears to be in the direction of the schools. First 
the surroundings of the child when at school should be 
hygienically perfect. This will, at all events, help it to 
appreciate part of the value of its instruction on such 
matters. What impression is likely to be made on a child 
when the teacher gives a lesson on ventilation in an over- 
crowded stuffy class-room ? Is such a child likely to advo- 
cate the open bedroom window at home? The health 
of the child is undoubtedly improved by perfect school 
hygiene. 

Next is the proper training of all teachers in sound 
hygienic principles and the care and feeding of infants, 
so that every one of them will be able to give his 
or her class correct instruction. Both boys and girls 
should receive this instruction. School impressions often 
last throughout life, but the feminine mind is notoriously 
conservative and there is always the possibility of a girl, 
in after-life, managing her home and rearing her children 
on precisely the same lines as her mother did before her. 
Boys, on the other hand, if hygienic truths are sufficiently 
impressed upon them, are much more likely, when they 
get homes of their own, to see that such principles are 
carried out with regard to their house and their children. 
The effect would therefore be a tendency towards a sub- 
stantial improvement in the national physique. 

As a matter of fact great changes would be quickly 



INTRODUCTORY. 9 

produced in many of the homes if the children were pro- 
perly instructed in cleanliness and general hygiene while 
at school. Improved cleanliness at home naturally follows 
when personal tidiness and cleanliness are insisted upon at 
school. " Slums " can only be prevented by eliminating 
the slum-maker. So long as the " slum-maker " continues 
to flourish, any collection of houses can be turned into a 
slum. The "housing problem" is not so simple as some 
well-meaning enthusiasts would have us believe. It seems 
almost incredible to believe that there is at present no 
systematic teaching of hygiene in the elementary schools in 
this country. The teaching of hygiene is made compul- 
sory by education laws in America and by a decree of 
Parliament in Sweden. Also, in Denmark, Holland, and 
Italy hygiene is systematically taught. 

In fact a considerable revision of our elementary school 
" education " is urgently necessary, particularly for girls. 
No one can say that the present system has not been 
given a fair trial. Thirty years have elapsed since com- 
pulsory education was introduced, but it has not proved 
to be an unqualified success. As a writer in the British 
Medical Journal says : " Under the head of knowledge of 
common phenomena of the external world Nature study is 
nearly always taken. Week after week children pull to 
pieces flowers, or are taught about the germination of 
seeds ; no doubt this is useful and interesting by way of 
cultivating a child's artistic tendencies and of exercising 
its memory in remembering scientific names of the parts 
of a plant. But to the children of London and other great 
towns, who seldom have the happiness of seeing a flower, 
it can only be regarded as waste of time, since this teach- 
ing is given at the expense of such vitally important sub- 
jects as mental, moral, and physical hygiene. 

"The present generation of mothers have all passed 



10 INTRODUCTORY. 

through the school curriculum, and their school training 
should be reflected in the upbringing of their children. As 
a matter of fact the grossest ignorance of matters bearing 
on daily life is manifested. It is well recognised that the 
cause of most of the degradation among the people is 
rather ignorance than poverty. Many a family has enough 
money to spend, but the women do not know how to 
expend it wisely. They are ignorant of the properties of 
food, of economical housekeeping, and of the management 
of a family. They may leave school able to read and write, 
and recite Tennyson, and sing glees, and pick flowers to 
pieces ; but they have not learnt the degradation of send- 
ing their children to school in ragged clothes, with dirty 
skins, heads swarming with vermin, and often, in conse- 
quence, a mass of sores, with which hands and faces be- 
come inoculated." Such an indictment should surely be 
sufficiently powerful to stir even English public opinion. 
Also in all matters of personal hygiene there exists the 
greatest ignorance. Take the teeth for example. Practi- 
cally all the poorer classes give no attention whatever to 
these important structures, neither towards preventing 
decay nor arresting it. No man or woman among them 
dreams of ever cleaning teeth or having a tooth stopped. 
The usual procedure is to wait until the tooth is badly 
decayed, and then, if it becomes very painful, to get 
it extracted. The importance of the care of the teeth is 
dealt with elsewhere, and so it is only necessary here to 
state that it is a subject intimately associated with the 
well-being and physical fitness of the race. 

The chief aim of our elementary teaching should be to 
produce in the children a desire to lead clean wholesome 
lives and to possess vigorous healthy bodies. The instruc- 
tion given should be of such a nature as will enable them 
to satisfy so desirable an ambition. 



INTRODUCTORY. 11 

As far as medical supervision in educational matters is 
concerned England is behind other countries. The London 
County Council, it is true, are evidently appreciating the 
needs of the children in this direction, and have appointed 
a large staff of medical officers for education. Other large 
towns such as Manchester and Leicester have appointed 
whole time medical officers to the education committees, 
but there are still a large number of centres of population 
that are either without any medical officer at all, or that 
pay a small salary for some nominal services which have no 
practical result. What is worse still, the Board of Educa- 
tion have, up to the present year, failed to set an example 
in this direction, and have acted without the services of an 
expert in hygiene. As a result the building rules issued 
by the Department show a lack of exact directions with 
regard to light and ventilation, as well as erring on the 
question of cubic space per child. 

At the present time the local medical officer of health 
has powers of control over the general sanitary arrange- 
ments of schools ; they can be inspected by him at any 
time, and all requirements necessary thereto he can order 
the local administrative authority to have carried out with- 
out delay. The improvements effected under these powers 
are practically nil. He also has powers with regard to all 
notifiable infectious diseases, to prevent all infected persons 
being admitted to a school. The closure of schools by the 
public health authority is provided for by Art. 30 of the 
Education Code. 

The Education Department exercises control over all 
school buildings, and can veto the erection of any new 
school. After the school is built the Department acts 
upon the report of their inspector, so that he really becomes 
the authority in connection with heating, ventilation, over- 
crowding, and all such matters. One naturally asks what 



12 INTRODUCTORY. 

capacity has this inspector for such work. It should really 
be the work of an expert in hygiene. 

As regards the medical inspection of the children there 
has been no obligation upon authorities to undertake any 
such work, neither has there been departmental control of 
the work that is done. The recent Bill (1907), concerning 
the medical inspection of school children, will probably 
introduce medical inspection generally throughout this 
country. At present few towns attempt it at all, and those 
who do anything are usually satisfied with the examination 
of the eyes and ears, and a superficial inspection of mentally 
defective children. In many parts of Germany, France, 
Switzerland, Denmark, and Belgium all children are 
examined when they enter the State schools, and there are 
periodical visits for the inspection of every class in rota- 
tion. Eegular visits are also paid in order to examine any 
cases which are considered by the teacher to require atten- 
tion. In the United States a daily visit is paid to the 
schools, and all cases suspected of infectious disease are 
examined. The results have certainly justified such in- 
spection. In one week there were 364 children excluded 
from school on account of some infectious disease (includ- 
ing parasites), and at Chicago, in three months, over 2000 
children were found to present signs of infectious disease. 

Austria, Norway, Turkey, and Hungary are rapidly 
taking up this important matter, while Japan, as usual, has 
gone further than any other country. In Japan there are 
more than eight thousand school doctors, every school and 
institution being under medical supervision ; Grermany has 
nearly seven hundred; America about five hundred: 
England boasts a score or so. 



CHAPTER II. 



THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

IT must be clearly understood that schools are provided 
for that part of the population which is peculiarly sus- 
ceptible to the influence of bad hygienic surroundings, 
and it is therefore especially necessary that the site, the 
building, and the general conditions of a school should 
be as nearly perfect as possible. But is this rule usually 
followed? Unfortunately sites are often chosen which 
would certainly never be selected for private residences, 
and, as a matter of fact, are undesirable from many points 
of view. 

In selecting a site the chief points to carefully examine 
are : 

(1) The conditions as to natural drainage, and the 

ordinary level of the ground water. 

(2) The nature of the soil and subsoil. 

(3) The aspect and elevation. 

(4) The surroundings. 

The importance of the first two conditions can be made 
clear by considering the kinds of soil, the usual arrange- 
ment of soils and rocks, and the ground air and ground 
water. 

Soil. 

A subdivision of the soil into surface soil and subsoil 
is generally recognised, and is convenient. The upper layer 

13 



14 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

is composed partly of inorganic materials from the sub- 
soil below and partly of organic matter of animal and 
vegetable origin. This layer swarms with bacteria of 
various kinds. Some of these are known as nitrifying 
bacteria and are of the utmost importance, inasmuch as 
they convert waste nitrogenous material into salts of am- 
monium and ultimately into nitrites and nitrates. The 
subsoil is purely inorganic and contains no bacteria. It is 
formed by the gradual breaking up of the rock below. 
The term rock is of wide significance. It includes granite, 
slate, sandstone, clay, limestone, chalk, etc. The soil of 
every locality should therefore be merely the decayed upper 
surface of the rocks beneath, together with decayed and 
decaying animal and vegetable matter, but the action of 
rain and other forces causes the removal of material to a 
greater or less distance from its source, so that in many 
instances a soil derived from one rock is laid upon a totally 
different kind of rock. 

Another convenient and important classification of soils 
is obtained by their action in preventing or allowing the 
percolation of water through them. Soils which allow 
water to pass readily through them are called porous 
or pervious, while those which prevent the passage of water 
are called impervious. Porous soils include sand, gravel, 
chalk, sandstone. The commonest impervious soil is clay, 
which, although it allows practically no water to pass 
through it, absorbs water and remains damp for long 
periods. 

Ground Water. 

In most districts there is a layer of porous soil on the 
surface. Below this, at variable depths, is an impervious 
layer. The rain falling on the surface soil will percolate 
downwards until it reaches the impervious layer, on the 



THE SITE OP THE SCHOOL. 15 

surface of which it will form an underground river. This 
collection of water, or underground river, resting on an 
impervious layer is called ground water. It is in constant 
movement, always flowing towards the nearest stream or 
towards the sea. 

The level of this ground water is the depth of the water 
in shallow wells in the neighbourhood. This level is liable 
to fluctuation, being raised, for instance, by a heavy rain- 
fall. It may be lowered by deepening and clearing out 
neighbouring watercourses, or by making fresh channels, 
whereby the rapidity of its flow may be increased. For a 
healthy site the level of the ground water should be more 
than 10 feet below the surface of the ground. 

Ground Air. 

The permeable soil, above the level of the ground water, 
contains quantities of air, varying according to the nature 
of the soil. All soils contain air, and the actual percentage 
depends upon the looseness, or otherwise, with which its 
particles are packed together. The porous soils such as 
gravels, sands, and sandstones can hold considerable 
volumes of air, even up to 50 per cent. 

The composition of ground air varies according to the 
nature of the soil and the depth below the surface. It 
differs from ordinary air in the following particulars : 

(1) It contains a much larger percentage of carbon 
dioxide. The amount varies from '2 per cent, to 
8 per cent., the latter figure representing the 
proportion in the ground air from gravelly soils 
at a depth of about 10 feet. This carbon 
dioxide is produced in two ways. Part is formed 
by the oxygen in the air combining with carbon 
derived from various animal or vegetable sources, 
and a further quantity is produced, by the action 



16 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

of putrefactive micro-organisms, from the oxygen 
of organic substances and of nitrates in the 
soil. 

(2) It contains less oxygen than ordinary air. This 

is due to the fact that part of the oxygen is used 
in producing carbon dioxide. 

(3) It contains a greater quantity of organic and other 

gases. Marsh gas may be present as a result of 
the decomposition of certain organic substances. 
Occasionally sulphuretted hydrogen is found in 
ground air. 

(4) It may contain great numbers of bacteria. 

The amount of nitrogen in ground air is about the same 
as in ordinary air. It is an undoubted fact that if large 
quantities of this air gain access to a house or a school it 
is liable to produce serious injury to health. The presence 
of ground air in houses in towns is, for instance, probably 
one of the chief predisposing causes of diphtheria. 

Movements of Ground Air. 

The subterranean atmosphere is in continual move- 
ment. These movements are produced chiefly in four ways. 
These are : 

(1) Any variation in the level of the ground water 

will cause movement of the ground air above it. 
Thus a heavy rainfall will be followed by a 
sudden rise in the level of the ground water and 
this will force out large quantities of ground air. 

(2) The outside air and the earth are nearly always at 

different temperatures. When these differences 
are greatest the widest range of movements of 
the ground air will occur. In autumn and winter, 
for instance, the soil is warmer than the air, and 
the ground air will therefore escape into the 



THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 



17 



atmosphere, and the colder atmospheric air will 
enter the pores of the soil. 

(3) The above result is most marked when a small 
area of ground is covered by a house or school, 
and especially when the surface of the soil out- 
side the house is ice-bound or macadamised, as 
it is in large towns. Under such circumstances, 








Fig. 1. 

when the temperature inside the house is very 
much higher than that outside, the aspirating 
effect of fires, chimneys, and ventilation outlets 
will tend to draw large volumes of ground air 
from the soil unless the site is covered with a 
substantial layer of concrete. In towns the 
ground air is usually mixed with coal gas, and 
cases are recorded where the inhabitants of the 
house have been poisoned by. air thus drawn 
from the soil. 

(4) Small movements of ground air are also produced 
by variations in the barometric pressure : on the 
days of low pressure the ground air escapes from 
the soil. Other factors include the action of 
wind in sucking out the air from the soil, as well 
as in forcing air into the strata which arc opposed 
to its path. 

SCH. HTG. 2 



18 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

The upper layers of the earth may therefore be compared 
to a huge lung alternately expelling and taking in air. 

Influence of Soil on Health. 

1. Damp. The dryness or otherwise of a site depends 
mainly upon the rapidity with which the rain water can 
run off or through the soil, together with the depth of the 
ground water. The best site is undoubtedly a gravelly 
soil of considerable depth, and on a slight slope. One of 
the worst kinds of site, on the other hand, would -be a 
shallow layer of gravel resting upon a horizontal layer of 
clay: such a layer would always be water-logged. Im- 
permeable rocks, where the water runs readily away, and 
also chalk and sandstone, of considerable depth, are dry 
and healthy. Undesirable soils include marl and clay, 
which are damp; peat soils, which contain a large amount 
of organic matter ; and made soils. 

It has been shown conclusively that an intimate con- 
nection exists between damp soil and all lung diseases, and 
it is extremely probable that damp is an important factor 
in the production of rheumatism, catarrh, neuralgia, 
throat affections (including diphtheria), and also favours 
the spread of measles and whooping cough. At Ely and 
Salisbury, for instance, the death rate due to consumption 
was reduced by fifty per cent, by efficient drainage of the 
soil, and a consequent lowering of the level of the ground 
water. It has already been stated that no site can be con- 
sidered satisfactory where the level of the ground water is 
within 10 feet of the surface. If the soil is damp, the 
entire site below the foundations should be drained by lay- 
ing unglazed agricultural pipes, with open joints, at the 
bottom of trenches filled with stones or gravel. 

2. Made Soils. Excavations made for the purpose of 
removing gravel, clay, sand, etc., are usually filled after- 



THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 19 

wards with all kinds of rubbish. Such rubbish is sure to 
contain more or less organic matter, and this will exist in a 
state of putrefaction for years, rendering impure the air 
around and inside the building. Such sites should always 
be avoided, if possible, and should, at all events, not be 
built upon within five years after the excavation has been 
completely filled in. Even then the layer of concrete ex- 
tending over the whole site, desirable in all cases, becomes 
an absolute necessity when building on such soil. 

3. Warmth of Soils. The warmth of any soil depends 
upon its nature and its dryness. Schiibler has classified 
the various soils, as regards composition, in order of merit 
for warmth as follows : 

Sand with some lime . . . 100 Clayey earth ... 68 

Pure sand 96 Pure clay 67 

Light clay 77 Pine chalk 62 

Grypsum 72 Humus 49 

Heavy clay 71 

If the soil is damp the evaporation from its surface 
keeps its temperature continuously much lower than that 
of the air above. Consequently a damp site is always a 
cold one. 

4. Diseases associated with Soils. Occasionally the 
actual bacteria which produce certain diseases are found in 
the soil. Thus the bacilli of tetanus (lockjaw), malignant 
oedema, and anthrax have been often demonstrated in soil. 
Also the close connection that exists between damp soils 
and certain diseases such as consumption, rheumatism, etc., 
has already been mentioned. In certain other diseases, 
although the specific germ may be either unknown or has 
not been actually found in soils, the relation between 
particular states of soil and prevalence of the disease has 
been clearly made out. Some observers, for instance, have 
noticed a relation between the height of the ground water 



20 



THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 



and epidemic outbreaks of typhoid fever and cholera. 
Epidemic summer diarrhoea, so fatal among children, has 
been conclusively shown to be associated with soils soaked 
with -sewage or polluted in other ways. There also appears 
to be a relationship between epidemics of diphtheria and 
the fluctuations of the level of the ground water. Simi- 
larly yellow fever is associated with certain soil conditions. 
Malaria exists only where the soil is damp and marshy and 
capable of holding shallow pools of stagnant water. 
Thorough drainage of the soil, removal of jungle and dense 
vegetation, and tree planting have been successfully used 
to make malarious districts healthy. 

Aspect and Elevation. 

In choosing the site the questions of exposure to sun and 
to east or north winds should be considered. All rooms 




Fig. 2 

THE DOTTED LINE SHOWS ORIGINAL OUTLINE OF HILL. 

as far as possible should be exposed to direct sunlight 
some time during the day. Direct sunlight is probably 
Nature's most powerful disinfectant. Abundance of light 
is secured by selecting a southerly or south-westerly aspect. 
Hollows, whether on high or low land, should be avoided. 
The foot of a hill is undesirable. If it is proposed to place 
a school upon the side of a hill, the ground must not be 
dug out so that the cliff rises immediately behind. The 



THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 



21 



excavated soil should be used to raise the site so as to leave 
a trench between the building and the cliff (see Fig. 3). 




Fig. 3. 
THE DOTTED LINE SHOW* ORIGINAL OUTLINE OF HILL. 

The soil should never rise immediately upwards from the 
building so as to allow superficial drainage or soakage to 
take place towards the foundations. There should be room 
for the free play of air on all sides. 

Surroundings. 

The building should not be situated near brickyards or 
any offensive works. It should be sheltered from cold 
winds as far as possible. Trees may afford valuable shelter, 
not only from cold winds but from fogs, but they must not 
be too close to the building, lest they impede the free cir- 
culation of air. They are best situated on the north and 
east sides. Everything which tends to allow stagnation of 
air in or around the school is to be avoided ; for this reason 
high walls and lofty buildings should be as far away as 
possible. A line drawn from the foot of the school build- 
ing to the top of the nearest wall or building should make 
an angle with the horizontal of not more than 30. In 
order to avoid dust and noise the building should stand as 
far back from the street as possible. 



22 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

THE PLAYGROUND. 

The playground necessarily forms a large proportion of 
the site. In Germany it is customary to allow a space of 
three square metres for each child. A space of 25 square 
feet per head should be regarded as a minimum, and 
probably 30 square feet is necessary. Part of the area 
should be under cover for play in wet weather. 

The covering of the surface of playgrounds is usually 
asphalt or gravel. A hard surface has serious disadvan- 
tages, chiefly the liability to produce injuries and' the 
restrictions it necessarily imposes upon the kinds of games 
and exercises that are possible. If part of the area is 
covered with turf it is a great advantage. 






CHAPTER III. 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDINGS. 

The Foundations. 

In the construction of school buildings not only should 
the best materials be obtained and put together in the 
most substantial way, but expert advice should be always 
obtained, so that a perfectly planned and thoroughly con- 
structed building may be the result. 

First of all the surface soil should be removed from the 
site until a hard layer of virgin earth is reached. The 
whole site should then be covered with a layer of concrete, 
rammed solid, at least six inches thick, and extending at 
least six inches beyond the footings of the outside walls. 
The depth of the concrete below the walls is regulated 
according to the weight of the wall which it has to support, 
but it should never be less than eighteen inches deep. 
The object of this layer of concrete . is to prevent the 
passage of moisture and ground air from the ground 
beneath into the building. 

The Walls. 

The height of the footings of the walls should be at 
least two-thirds of the thickness of the wall above them, 
and the width of the bottom layer of the footings should 
be twice the thickness of the wall. 

23 



24 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 



inches 



I 27 inches. 



CO N CRETE 

'fcVV^r 
^>; ^v.ix ^'/ : ] 



Foomo* or WAI^ A^D CONCRETE POUNDATXON. 




SOIL. 

Fig- 5. 
DAMP COURSE or PERFORATED GLAZED Am BRICK.. 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 



25 



The Prevention of Damp. 

The walls must be provided with " a proper damp course 
of sheet lead, asphalt, or slates, or of other durable material 
impervious to moisture." This damp course should be 
placed beneath the level of the lowest timbers and not 
less than six inches above the level of the soil outside. 




J" 



T~ 






IT 



I L 



Fig. 6. 

Unless these precautions are taken the moisture will be 
readily absorbed by the brickwork from the soil. An 
ordinary brick will absorb about one pint of water. This 
moisture will creep up the wall by capillary attraction, 
even to the level of the upper rooms, and will produce 
rotting of the woodwork and disfigurement of the paper, 
besides rendering the school damp and unhealthy. 



26 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 

The best damp-proof course is one made of specially 
manufactured slabs of glazed stoneware, perforated longi- 
tudinally, and thus ventilating the space beneath the floors 
as well as preventing the ascent of moisture. 

The arrangement of the damp-proof course is quite 
simple where there is no basement, and where all floors 
are above the ground level. Where a basement is neces- 
sary, or floors have to be placed below the level of the 



SOIL. 



Beam. 



*x ' . v : c'd N c R T E" \ i ' X s i 
>^ x / / 1 / , / / t o>\ ,, 
jv ' S ^ xVv x x/ c, , 6- 



Fig. 7. 

DOUBLE 



surface of the outside soil, it is necessary to adopt one of 
the two devices known as "dry area" and "double wall." 
These are almost sufficiently illustrated by Figures 6 and 
7. " Dry area " is a device to keep away the soil from 
the wall by building an additional wall some small distance 
from the main wall. A similar purpose is achieved by 
building the main wall double until about a foot above 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 27 

the ground level. In both cases the part of the wall 
which, from its contact with the soil, is bound to be 
perpetually damp, is entirely cut off from the remainder 
of the wall by damp-proof courses and air space. 

In both cases it is necessary to provide ample openings 
for ventilation and to drain the bottom of the area or 



I I LJ_L-LL1--L1 

Fig. 3. 

THK ENGLISH BOND. 



cavity. An alternative plan is to fill the space entirely 
with asphalt. 

The external walls should be built of "good bricks, 
stone, or other hard and incombustible materials, properly 
bonded and solidly put together " with mortar or cement. 





1 


1 1 


I 1 


1 










| 


1 1 


1 1 


1 


( 










Fig. 9. 




THK FI.KMISH BOND. 



The two usual methods of bonding are the Flemish bond, 
in which each course contains bricks laid alternately 
transversely and longitudinally, and the English bond, 
where the entire courses are alternately laid transversely 
and longitudinally. Where the wall is under 25 feet in 
height a 9 -inch wall is usually considered sufficient (but 
14 inches is much better), and the thickness must be 



28 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 

increased for increased heights. The regulations of the 
Board of Education state that for walls of one storey high 
the thickness must be 1^ bricks, and if of stone, 20 inches 
thick. 

All walls, including fence walls, must have a damp-proof 
course of asphalt, slate, or other approved material through 
their whole thickness immediately above the ground, and 
all chimney stacks must have a similar course immediately 
above the roof. 

In exposed situations external walls are better .built 
hollow. If of brick the cavity should be 2 inches across, 
with a 9-inch wall inside and a 4.^ -inch wall outside. 
Hollow walls must be bonded together with continuous 
courses of vitrified bonding bricks, one course to every 
three feet in height. 

Number of Storeys. 

It is advisable to limit the height of the building to two 
storeys above the level of the street. In this country a 
great number of the modern schools are only one storey 
high, and, unless land is excessively dear, this is the best 
plan. The effort of climbing several nights of stairs many 
times a day undoubtedly strains the young body except in 
the case of the most robust. 

Floors. 

Solid floors should be used on the ground floor. The 
best is the wood block floor. The wood blocks are usually 
10 inches long by 3 inches wide and H inches thick, and 
are laid upon concrete in a mixture of tar and asphalt. 
These floors are durable, clean, and noiseless, but require 
great care in cleaning. If joists and boarded floors are 
used, air bricks or air gratings must be inserted to ensure a 
through current of air below the floor. The wood used for 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 



29 



floors should be well seasoned. Ordinary floor boards 
shrink after having been laid, and the spaces thus formed 
between the boards afford lodgment for dust and dirt. 
The collection of dirt that is always found under such 
floors in old schools and houses would greatly astonish 
most people. Part of this matter is organic and probably 
gives off gases which cannot fail to be injurious to health. 
Fermentation probably becomes active when the necessary 
amount of moisture is supplied by the periodic wet cleaning 
to which such floors are subjected. 




Fig. 10. 

GROOVED FLOOR BOARDS FITTED WITH STRIP. 

Where wood blocks are not used the floors of 
schoolrooms should be constructed of narrow planks of 
close-grained wood, such as oak or pitch pine. The 
edges should be "tongued and grooved," i.e. one edge 
of each board is ploughed to form a groove, while the 
other edge has a projection or tongue. The tongue of each 
board fits into the groove of the next. Another plan is to 
groove both edges of the board, so that a loose strip of 
wood or iron will fit exactly into the two grooves when side 
by side. 

In all cases the junction of the wainscot with the floor 
should be completed by means of a rounded insertion, as 



30 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 



shown in Fig. 11. This enables the sweeping and cleaning 
of the room to be done thoroughly and quickly. Wooden 



ZL. 



Fig. 11. 

ROUNDED INSERTION BETWEEW WAINSCOT AND FLOOR. 

wainscoting is often condemned as unsanitary, and the 
substitution of glazed bricks is an undoubted improve- 
ment. 

Roofs. 

Roof s should not only be watertight, but should serve as 
a protection against heat and cold. Of the various roofing 
materials (thatch, stone, slates, tiles, lead, zinc, etc.) the 
most serviceable for school purposes are slates and tiles. 
The slates should be of the best quality, hard without 
being brittle, and should be laid at about an angle of 30 
to the horizon. They are often laid on laths, but the 
practice is not a good one, as the upper rooms are then 
insufficiently protected against heat and cold, and will be 
uncomfortably cold in winter and hot in summer. The best 
results are obtained by laying slates on boards covered 
with felt. They must be secured by strong copper nails, 
weighing not less than 10 Ib. per thousand, two to each 
slate. Slates should be laid with a 3-inch lap, which means 
that each slate overlaps the next slate but one below it for 
3 inches. 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 31 

Tiles. 

Tiles are more porous and absorbent than slates, but are 
worse conductors of heat. Water does not so readily run 
off them as in the case of slates, and so it is necessary to 
lay the tiles at greater angle (45-50 with the horizon). 
Copper nails or oak pins, two to each tile, should be used 
to secure them. Ridge tiles should be jointed and bedded 
in cement. 

Lead. 

For covering irregularly shaped surfaces, gutters, 
flashings, etc., and for flat roofs, lead is far better and 
more durable than zinc, and should invariably be used. 

The woodwork of the roofing should be oak, teak, or 
best Baltic red fir. Rafters and joists must not be more 
than 13 inches apart. 

Roofs should not, if it can be avoided, be open to the 
apex. If they are so made, special precautions must be 
taken to render them impervious, and to provide apex 
ventilation. 

Spouts. 

The roof should be so planned as to carry off the water 
as quickly as possible, and the spouting arranged so as not 
to allow it to be blown upon the side walls. Every pre- 
caution should be taken to get rid of the rain-water, so that 
it does not saturate the subsoil around tjie building. The 
spouting must be equal to dealing with the maximum rain- 
fall on any day in the year. Eaves, gutters, and rain-water 
pipes may be advantageously kept an inch or two away 
from the face of walls, so that, if stoppage or leakage occurs, 
the wall will not necessarily be made damp. Down-spouts 
should be made of iron. Eaves and gutters may either 
be iron or zinc. Zinc, if used, should be of substantial 
thickness. 



32 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 

Internal Wall Surfaces, 

Unless it is proposed to cover the walls with smooth im- 
pervious material, which may be periodically cleaned or 
painted, it is best to leave the walls uncovered by either 
plaster, paint, or paper, but it is necessary to use impervious 
hard bricks set in cement if this course is adopted. Such 
wall surfaces can be easily kept clean and are very satis- 
factory. Glazed bricks or enamelled tiles are still more 
impervious and give excellent results. 

If the walls are plastered, a durable, smooth, non-porous 
variety should be selected. The plaster is then usually 
coloured by some colour wash, but more permanent and 
satisfactory results are obtained by painting and var- 
nishing the walls. The aim should be to produce a surface 
that will be almost non-absorbent and which can be readily 
cleaned. Ordinary non-painted plaster absorbs moisture 
and organic matters. Analysis of the plaster of a hospital 
ward has shown the presence of 46 per cent, of organic 
matter. In such cases there is probably a continuous 
fermentation going on, giving rise to ill-health. White- 
washing and colour-washing does not remove or destroy 
such accumulations, but merely covers it all over with a 
layer that looks clean. When such surfaces require cleansing 
they should be carefully washed, and some disinfectant 
should be added to the new colouring matter. 

Cornices, string courses, and projections of every kind 
upon which dust can gather should be ruthlessly pro- 
hibited on the walls or in any part of the room. The 
tops of the doors and windows should be levelled off, 
and indeed all kinds of irregularities taken away ; even 
raised thresholds should be avoided : everything that will 
interfere with a clean sweep is wrong and must not be 
permitted on any account. Woodwork where visible should 
be stained and varnished. 



THE CONSTfctTCTION OF THE STTILDING. 33 

Colour of Walls. 

There are two points to be considered in connection with 
the selection of the colour for the wall. It is important 
to choose such a colour as will not tax the eye, and at 
the same time the colour must be such as will not absorb 
light to any appreciable extent. Thus, red colours absorb 
a large amount of light ; yellows absorb the least amount 
of light but produce greater fatigue and nervousness than 
the other colours ; while greens stand next to yellows in 
their absorption of light and are markedly restful to the 
eye. As a rule the best results are obtained by adopting 
a light greenish gray, with a dull surface. The wall 
should be painted, so that it may be washed. 

Basements. 



There should be a basement under the whole building 
if possible. If the basement has two-thirds of its height 
above the ground level, and has no direct communication 
with the rooms above, it may be used for cloak-rooms. 
The floor should be of good asphalt or cemented concrete. 
Under 110 circumstance should such rooms be used for 
teaching purposes. Part of the accommodation here will 
be taken up by the heating apparatus, and by store-rooms. 
The furnace-room should be shut off from the remainder of 
the floor by stout iron doors which serve- to isolate this part 
in case of fire. 

Cloak-rooms and Lavatories. 

Special rooms must be available for such purposes, 
although it is unlikely that the demand for a cloak-room for 
each class-room will be met yet. They should be entered 
from well lighted and ventilated lobbies, and not from any 
room used for teaching. Basements may be used, but only 
when no other space is available. They must be heated 
SCH. HYa. 3 



34 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 

and ventilated so as to dry any wet olothes and prevent 
damp or smell from entering the school. Lavatory fit- 
tings should not be placed in cloak-rooms. The practice 
of using parts of corridors as cloak-rooms is bad, not 
only because it disfigures the building, but also on account 
of the smell of damp clothes in wet weather. 

Cloak-rooms should be well lighted from the end, and 
gangways at least four feet wide should be made between 
the hanging rails. Pegs for hats and cloaks should be 




Fig. 12. 

METAL CLOAK-UOOM FITTINGS. 

numbered, placed not less than twelve inches apart, and 
not one above another. The floors should be of asphalt 
or cemented concrete, and the walls of glazed brick or tile. 
Grlazed partitions should be used as far as possible. 

The best plan for arranging the clothes is by means of 
metal ranges usually steel coated with aluminium so 
made that there is a free circulation of air around the 
clothing, thereby ensuring rapid drying (see Fig. 12). 
The methods that are usually adopted do not allow such 
free circulation as is desirable. The usual plan is either to 
fix a wide shelf round the room with double coat hooks 
underneath, fifteen inches apart, or to form a series of 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 



35 



compartments by vertical partitions, placed ten inches 
apart, with coat hooks fixed' on each side. Additional 




Fig. 12A. 

METAL CLOAK- noon FITTINGS. 

accommodation may be provided by fixing small shelves 
between the vertical partitions. The latter method appears 




Fig, 12u. 

CLOAK-ROOM ACCOMMODATION. 

30 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 87 

attractive, but it is unsatisfactory on account of the ob- 
struction to the free circulation of air, resulting in delay 
to the drying process. 

Entrances. 

There should be a sufficient number of external doors 
to allow the school to be completely emptied in less than 
three minutes, and the doors should be wider than the 
stairs or passages leading to them. No school should 
have less than two entrances, and in mixed or dual 
schools there should be separate entrances for boys and 
girls. Where external doors have outside steps there 
should be a landing between door and steps. In all 
cases external doors should open outwards. 

Staircases. 

These should not be less than four feet and not more 
than six feet wide, and must not have more than fourteen 
steps to a flight. Where possible they should be con- 
structed with solid walls on both sides of the flight, and 
every staircase must have at least one external wall. They 
must be of fire-resisting materials, such as iron and slate, 
or steel and lead, and well lighted in every part. In 
schools of more than 150 scholars with upstair rooms 
there must be at least two staircases. In fact, two 
staircases should be considered to be the minimum in 
all cases. In mixed schools one staircase should be used 
by boys and another by girls. 

Numerous cases of children falling over banisters have 
led many authorities to insist that there should be no 
balustrade, but that the staircase should have walls on 
both sides. This arrangement may be considered less 
ornamental, but it is undoubtedly safer. On each side of 



38 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 

the staircase a double handrail should be fixed, the lower 
rail being at a level suitable for smaller children, and a 
higher one for the taller scholars. 

It is advisable that each staircase should be broken by 
a square or oblong landing, not only as affording a tempo- 
rary rest for the muscles, but also as guarding against 
accidents. 

The width of the steps (or treads) should be not less 
than eleven inches, and the height of one step above 
another (risers) should be six inches. 

General Plan. 

In order to secure proper organisation and supervision 
the various rooms should be grouped compactly and con- 
veniently. The usual modern plan is that of a central 
hall, round which the other rooms are ranged, and from 
which they are entered by doors, the upper portions of 
which are glazed. If an upper storey is necessary the 
staircases and corridors should be on view from the central 
hall. Passages and corridors should be avoided as far as 
possible. Where unavoidable, they must be large, airy, 
and well lighted, and constructed of fire-resisting materials. 
In many cases there appears to be an inability to realise 
the importance of wide halls or corridors. Main corridors 
should be at least ten feet wide, but need not be more. 
Occasionally one meets schools with abnormally wide halls 
and corridors, simply representing waste of valuable space 
which might have been economically included in the school- 
rooms. 

The objection to the central hall type of school is 
that adequate ventilation by natural means is extremely 
difficult. In fact it is owing to this difficulty and the 
common adoption of the central hall type that mechanical 
ventilation hag been forced upon school authorities, thereby 



GIRLS 




d Plan of School. 

Fig. 13. 

THE STAFFORDSHIRE TYPE OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. 
GROUND PLAN SHOWING RELATIVE ARRANGEMENT OF THE THREE DEPARTMENTS. 

39 



^ ii mil 
1 1 111 n 
jo mrm 
1 1 1 1 1 n 

n i ml 




BOYS' PLAYGROUND 



DRILL AND PLAY HALL 




GIRLS' AND INFANTS' 
PLAYGROUND 



SECTION. 

Fig. 14. 

THK STAFFORDSHIRK TTPK OF ELEMKNTARY SCHOOL, GROUND PLAN OF INFANTS' 

SCHOOL, WITH DRILL AND PLAT HALL. ALSO SECTION OF CLASS-ROOM 

40 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 41 

greatly increasing the working expenses of the schools. 
Unfortunately this type of building has come to be re- 
garded as essential from an educational point of view. 
In the Staffordshire type of school, proposed by Dr. Eeid, 
the difficulty has been boldly faced, and the central hall 
has been abolished. One semi-detached hall serves for 
three departments, and the class-rooms are designed in 
pavilion form with verandah communication. From a 
health point of view this type of school makes an important 
advance, while from an educational standpoint it is at 
least as satisfactory as the central hall type 

In this school there is ample provision for cross window 
ventilation, each window being provided with large hopper 
openings about five feet from the floor level, and sash 
openings above. Under ordinary conditions of weather 
the hoppers are kept permanently and fully open, while 
the sash openings allow for additional ventilation so far as 
weather permits, and for free flushing of the rooms 
during play and meal intervals. The heating is provided 
by low pressure ventilating radiators, each department of 
the school having an entirely distinct circuit. A mean 
heating surface of 17 to 20 feet per 1000 cubic feet is 
provided. The cost of such schools, excluding the cost of 
site, works out at about 10 per head for large 
schools and slightly more for smaller ones. The aver- 
age cost per head of the central hall type of school 
is 16. 

Dr. Reid has made a number of experiments comparing 
the possibility of ventilation in the pavilion schools 
with that in the central hall type. The results of 
these experiments show conclusively the superiority of 
the pavilion type of school, the atmosphere in a central 
hall type of school, without mechanical ventilation, being 
at least four times as impure after 1| hours occupation 



42 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 

as that of the pavilion school collected on the same day 
and under similar circumstances. 

All corridors should receive direct light from windows 
at each end and, if necessary, must be lighted from the 
adjoining class-rooms by windows fitted with clear ribbed 
glass. Ground glass is very unsatisfactory, as it absorbs 
a large percentage of the light. 

THE CLASS-ROOM. 

The best shape for the class-room is that of a rectangle 
with the greater sides about one-fifth longer than the 
smaller sides. The pupils should sit facing one of the 
shorter sides, i.e. with the long sides of the room on their 
right and left. Light is admitted on the left side. The 
necessary size is determined from certain factors. There 
should be 15 feet of floor space and 200 cubic feet of air 
space provided for each scholar. 

[The Board of Education give 120 cubic feet per head 
for London elementary schools, and 100 cubic feet per 
head for provincial schools, and 18 square feet for every 
scholar in secondary schools.] 

One of the commonest and most dangerous fallacies is 
that a smaller air space per head is required for primary 
schools than for secondary schools. Other factors to be 
considered are the distance for which the light admitted on 
the left will prove effective (this limits the width of the 
room to 25 feet) ; the distance at which the scholars with 
normal eyes can see writing on the blackboard ; and the 
distance at which the words of the teacher are still clearly 
audible. The latter factors limit the length of the room 
to about 30 feet. 

We thus arrive at the dimensions 30 feet by 25 feet. 
These give a floor space of 750 square feet, and allowing 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 43 

13 feet for the height we have a room containing 9750 
cubic feet of air. This will accommodate 48 scholars if the 
allowance of 15 square feet of floor space and 200 cubic 
feet of air space is considered to be sufficient. This is a 
very large class for one teacher, and, in practice, a class of 
40 pupils should be considered a maximum. 



CHAPTER IV, 
LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

SECTION I. LIGHTING. 

THE continued increase in short sight among children 
may be ascribed without hesitation partly to deficient and 
faulty illumination of school -rooms. In order to under- 
stand the principles of perfect lighting it is best to con- 
sider under what natural circumstances reading can be best 
accomplished. The most perfect ease in reading or 
writing, or in doing any fine work which imposes a certain 
strain upon the eyes, is obtained in the open air on a dull 
day. Under such circumstances there is ample light, but 
it is so well diffused that it appears to come from no point 
in particular and therefore casts no shadow. This repre- 
sents the ideal conditions. It is imitated in artificial 
lighting by concealed electric lights, the light from which 
is reflected to the ceiling and thence, well diffused, to all 
parts of the room. One of the most important rules is 
that the light should never fall directly upon the eyes. 
Illumination of the paper or object, with shading or pro- 
tection of the eyes, is the aim of good lighting. Such is 
attained in the lighting of billiard tables, or by reading- 
lamps. 

44 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 45 

Windows. 

Every part of a school-room should be fully lighted. 
The area of window glass must not be less than one- fifth 
the area of the floor in rooms used for teaching, and in 
other rooms not less than one-eighth ; so that a school- 
room 30 feet by 25 feet should have a window area of not 
less than 150 square feet. At least half the glass area of 
every window must be made to open for ventilation and 
for cleaning. In rooms used for teaching the windows 
should have square heads, be as near the ceiling as possible, 
and of white glass only. There should be no wall space 
between the ceiling and the window. As a general rule 
one-third of the total light admitted by a window is fur- 
nished by the upper fourth. The height from the floor to 
the bottom of the window should be four feet in order to 
prevent reflections from the top of the desks, and so that 
the light should not be on a level with the eyes of the 
pupils. Provision for cross ventilation should be made. 
A convenient arrangement of windows is to have the lower 
portion fitted as double-hung sashes and the upper as a 
fanlight hung at the bottom to fall inwards. Another 
good plan is to arrange below the sashes a hopper opening 
that cannot be closed. If the top of the window does not 
open, or if the window does not reach up to the ceiling, 
there will be a layer of foul ah* continually occupying the 
upper part of the room. 

The light should, as far as possible, be admitted from the 
left side of the scholars ; but when a left light is impossible, 
a right light is next best, in which case the window sills 
should not be very low. The objection to a light from the 
right is that it casts a shadow from the pen over the writ- 
ing. The worst light is that which comes directly from the 
front of the scholar. This is very dazzling and is injurious 
to the eyes. Light from the back throws a shadow over 



46 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

the work of the scholars, and is unpleasant and injurious 
to the teacher. Moreover, such a position decreases the 
power of the teacher of overlooking the scholars. The 
number of panes of glass to each window should be not 
more than four. The best plan is to have one pane for the 
upper sash and one for the lower. Such windows are more 
easily cleaned, and give more light than those with more 
panes. 

Abundant light is absolutely necessary, and it should be 
arranged to strike the desk at a considerable angle. A 
" dim religious " light is opposed to healthiness of mind, 
and tends to develop that hysterical state greatly admired 
and so much promoted by some schools of religious thought. 
It depresses a healthy mind, and impedes the vigorous 
action of brain matter. Light goes with knowledge, and 
assists to develop mental power. A dim light probably 
impedes the formation of the habit of private judgment, 
and leads the person under its influence to lean upon some- 
body else : to follow the lead of the teacher in blind obedi- 
ence ; but it does not tend to health. That which does not 
produce a perfect state of bodily health, or impedes its 
growth, cannot be good for any body of people, and this 
applies to children much more than adults. Lighting 
should be provided on a scale suitable for dull days : the 
mere passing of a dark cloud over the sun may decrease 
the illumination in a room by 66 per cent. 

Light should be diffused as equally as possible through 
the room : dark corners and dark ends should be got rid of 
by opening windows in the blank walls, or putting in sky- 
lights if the walls are not outside walls. 

Amount of Illumination. 

To test the sufficiency of illumination in a room the light 
upon the desk placed in the most unfavourable position 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 47 

should be examined. It is usual to compare the illumina- 
tion at any place with that afforded by a standard candle 
placed one metre away. This is called a candle metre. 
The illumination upon the desk in the darkest part of the 
room should be at least fifty candle metres. If it is below 
the standard the eyes of the pupil will be subjected to an 
undue amount of strain. 

Windows with Obstructed Sky Line. 

Unfortunately many school buildings have some windows 
which give a poor light because the neighbouring walls and 
houses obstruct the sky line. Under such circumstances 
it is necessary to deflect the light into the room by means 
of special contrivances such as ribbed glass, or 
glass prisms. 

A series of tests 011 the diffusion of light through 
ribbed and prismatic glasses were made by C. L. 
Norton at Massachusetts. The ribbed glass giving 
the best results was plane on one side and had 
twenty-one ribs to the inch on the other. The ribs 
should be set horizontally. Its cost is not excessive. 
It is claimed that for average- sized school-rooms 
with obstructed sky line the illumination can be 
increased, on dull days, by more than fifty per cent, 
if the upper sash is glazed with ribbed glass. 

Lighting by prisms is also very satisfactory in 
those cases where the windows open upon narrow 
streets or dark courts. Panes are made with pro- Fi 
jecting prisms on one side, the angles of the prisms R^BED 
varying for different cases. By refraction and GLASS - 
reflection the light from the sky above is directed into 
the room. The most satisfactory method of using these 
prisms is so to arrange the angle that the light is 



48 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

deflected to the white ceiling, thereby affording an ideal 
light 

The space between the windows should be as narrow as 
possible. Wide spaces produce bands of light and dark 
shadows which strain the eyes. The best arrangement is 
to use cast-iron niullions between the windows, so that 
brickwork is altogether unnecessary in these positions. 

In many schools the windows are seldom cleaned. Small 
panes should be avoided on account of the increased ten- 
dency to become dirty, as well as affording less light. 
Regular cleaning of the windows is as important as the 
scrubbing of the floors. 

Blinds. 

When the direct rays of a bright summer sun are pour- 
ing into a room the light may become dazzling. Direct 
sunlight should never fall upon a desk. Opaque shades, 
rolling from the bottom, should then be used in order to 
regulate the amount of light. The light entering near the 
ceiling is then evenly diffused. 

Artificial Lighting. 

The incandescent electric light is by far the best. As a 
general rule, three 16 candle-power lamps, placed eight feet 
above the floor, will be required for every 100 square feet 
of floor space. The glowing film itself, if visible, injures 
the eye, and some shield is therefore necessary. Most 
shields, ground glass for instance, greatly decrease the 
illumination. Shaw, of New York University, strongly 
recommends the adoption of the Holophane glass globe. 
This globe increases the effectiveness of the lighting at all 
points below the horizontal. They should be used as close 
to the ceiling as possible. Gas has the great disadvantage 
of giving a considerable amount of impurities to the air, 



LIGHTING AND HEATING 



49 



as well as using up the oxygen. One cubic foot of gas will, 
in burning, consume the entire oxygen of eight cubic feet of 
air, and also give to the air about half its volume of carbon 
dioxide as well as compounds of sulphur, which are par- 




Fig. 16. 

WKNHAM'S GAS-BURNKR. 

A, Burner and gas pipe. 

B, Inlets into room and globe for fresh air, as shown by the arrows. 

C, Outlet for products of combustion. 

D, Outlet for foul air from room: 

ticularly injurious. An ordinary batswing burner, of 16 
candle-power, consumes 5J cubic feet of gas per hour, and 
is estimated to produce, in that time, 2'8 cubic feet of CO 2 , 

SCH. HYG. 4 



50 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

and 7*3 cubic feet of water vapour, thereby polluting the 
air to about the same extent as would be produced by the 
process of respiration of five adults. By using Welsbach 
incandescent burners, in which incandescence is produced 
by placing a mantle composed of a network containing 
certain oxides over an ordinary Bunsen flame, it is possible 
to greatly increase the lighting effect and, at the same 
time, to diminish the quantity of gas consumed and the 
impurities produced. It also has the great advantage of 
producing a steady and white light. Its chief disadvan- 
tages are the intense glare of the unshielded light, and the 
small proportion of the light that is radiated downwards. 
These objections are overcome by using shaded inverted 
burners, or by adopting the Holophane globe which dif- 
fuses the light downwards. Special burners, such as the 
Wenham, are sometimes used with advantage. The flame 
is enclosed in glass globes, and the products of combustion 
are compelled to leave the room at once by a proper con- 
duit. The conduit passes into one of the flues, or directly 
out of doors into the open air. 

Mr. Priestley Smith, in speaking of the artificial lighting 
of schools, says : " The desks should be illuminated by a 
row of burners, placed not many feet above them, and 
somewhat to the left. Ground glass globes, which greatly 
diminish the intensity of the light, should be replaced by 
transparent chimneys for the sake of clearness and steadi- 
ness, and reflectors may be added with great advantage." 

SECTION II. HEATING. 

The heating of the school is, or should be, closely asso- 
ciated with its ventilation, and the subject will therefore 
be constantly alluded to in considering the question of 
ventilation. Heat tends to pass from warmer to colder 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



51 



bodies in three ways by conduction, by convection, and 
by radiation. 

Conduction. 

Heat passes from hot particles to cooler particles in con- 
tact with them by means of conduction. The passage of 
heat along solid bodies takes place solely by this method. 
Particles of air in contact with hot surfaces also become 
heated by conduction, and can pass on some of the heat- 
thus obtained to other particles in a similar manner. 

Convection. 

When a fluid is heated its molecules tend to become 
more widely separated, and its density decreases. Heated 
layers of air are therefore lighter than cooler layers and 
will accordingly rise, their place being taken by equal 
volumes of cool air, which in its turn becomes heated. 
The heated air, in rising, will lose some of its heat by 
conduction, so that a given volume of air may be quickly 
warmed by a combination of convection and conduction. 

Radiation. 

The heat of the sun, and of a fire, which warms objects 
at a distance without raising the temperature of the inter- 
vening air, is said to pass by radiation. Objects thus 
warmed may raise the temperature of adjacent air by con- 
duction, and of large volumes of air by conduction and 
convection. 

For school purposes we may consider the following 
methods as available for heating: 

I. Open Fires. 

This is the most popular method of heating in this 
country, but it cannot be recommended as the sole source 



52 LIGHTING AND HBATIN4. 

of heat for schools. They have the following disadvan- 



(1) They are very wasteful. Between 10 and 20 per 
cent, of the actual amount of heat that is produced is really 
used in warming the room, the 80 or 90 per cent, being 
wasted largely by the rush of heated air up the chimney. 
To prevent as much of this loss as possible the opening 
into the flue should be narrow and adjustable ; also the 
grate should be made with as little metal work and as 
much fireclay as possible. The bars beneath should be so 
close together as to allow small ash only to pass, and the 
bars in front should be narrow so as not to obstruct radia- 
tion. The back of the grate should slope over the fire to 
deflect the heat into the room. The space under the fire 
should be shut off so as to allow no air to pass. In order 
to increase radiation the fireplace should be brought into 
the room as much as possible. The heat is also economised 
by building fireplaces against inside walls only. 

(2) Open fireplaces heat a room very unequally. On 
cold days one side of a room feels comfortably warm, while 
the side farthest away from the fire is very chilly. 

(3) They create a large amount of dust and ashes, 
and require a large amount of attention in stoking and 
cleaning. 

On the other hand the open fireplace possesses very 
important advantages, namely, the cheerful appearance 
and the efficient aid that it gives to ventilation. 

No system of warming can ever give such pleasant 
effects as those of an open fire. Nearly the whole of its 
heat is in the radiant form, and as a result the walls and 
furniture of a room are kept at a higher temperature than 
the air. Under such circumstances the body is surrounded 
with comparatively cool air, which is much more healthy 
to "breathe than hot air, but the neighbouring objects, such 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



53 



as walls and furniture, are warmer. The result is that the 
body loses far less heat, by the process of radiation, than 
it does in a room filled with warm air but where the walls 
are cold. In a room heated by hot water pipes or warmed 
air, the walls not being heated in the 
same proportion, although the air may 
feel warm, the walls will remain cold, so 
that the heat of the body passes rapidly 
by radiation to the walls, and gives rise 
to a chill. 

! I 

Ventilating Grates. 

If open fireplaces are used they 
should always be of the G-alton type in 
order to introduce a constant supply of 
warm fresh air. At the back of these 
grates, and surrounding the lower part 
of the flue, is an air chamber communi- 
cating on the one hand with the outer 
air, and on the other with the room. 
Fresh air enters the air chamber from 
outside, becomes warmed by contact 
with the hot back of the grate and the 
heated sides of the flue, and enters the 
room by openings placed either between 
the mantel-piece and the ceiling or just 
below the mantel- shelf. 

II. Stoves. 

These have certain advantages over open fires, being 
more economical, cleaner, and more uniform sources of 
heat. Moreover the best forms of stoves require very little 
attention. On the other hand they dry the air, giving rise 
tx> unpleasant sensations, and may actually cause a smell of 




Fig. 17. 

THE GAI.TON GRATE. 
a, Hot - air chamber 
surrounding flue ; b, 
opening for fresh air ; 
c, inlet into room. 



54 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 




burning owing to the charring of the dust and organic 
matter in the air. . Another unpleasant feature is the 
tendency of cast-iron stoves to give off carbon monoxide, a 
highly poisonous gas, to the air. This only takes place 
when the cast-iron is red-hot. For the purpose of ventila- 
tion they cannot compare with open fires. 

III. Gas Fires or Stoves. 

These are rarely used 
for school purposes except 
for small rooms which 
are occupied occasionally. 
The advantages claimed 
for them are that they are 
clean, easily regulated, and 
economical when the room 
is required at intervals 
only. It is important to 
remember that no stove 
of any kind is permissible 
unless it is fitted with a 
proper flue to carry off the 
products of the combus- 
tion. 



A, A. J 



7 
t t 




ROOM / 



Fig. 18. 
VKNTILATING STOVE. 



Ventilating Stoves. 

The most satisfactory 
form of stove is the ven- 
tilating stove, which de- 
serves much more general 

use. There are several varieties, but the principle is 
clearly shown in the accompanying diagram. Fresh air 
enters the room from outside and is warmed on the way 
by passing through a tube or chamber which is heated by 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 55 

a gas flame (Bunsen burners) . The air which is vitiated 
by the combustion of the gas is led either into the chimney 
or directly outside. 

IV. Hot-Water Pipes. 

The heating of buildings by hot water pipes may be 
accomplished in one of two ways ; viz. by the low pressure 
system or the high pressure system. 

Low Pressure System. 

The water is heated in a boiler in the basement. From 
the top of the boiler runs a cast-iron pipe, four inches in 
diameter, vertically upwards. This gives off branches to 
all the rooms. Each branch pipe goes round the room, 
and then returns by bending back under itself, finally 
uniting with the main return pipe which enters the boiler 
at the bottom. 

There is a continual circulation of water in such pipes, 
because the outgoing one is filled with hot water which is 
lighter than the comparatively cool water in the return 
pipe, such conditions being maintained hy the heat of the 
boiler and the cooling of the water as it circulates through 
the pipes in the various rooms. A feed pipe from the 
cistern enters the return pipe and makes good any leakage 
or waste from evaporation. An escape .for air or steam is 
provided at the highest point. The average temperature 
at which such pipes are maintained is generally between 
160 and 180 F. The pressure in the boiler only exceeds 
the atmospheric pressure by the pressure due to the weight 
of a column of water whose height is the vertical distance 
between the boiler and the highest point of the system. 

Roughly speaking, it is usually found that about 12 feet 
of the 4-inch pipe are required for each 1000 cubic feet in 
a room in order to maintain a temperature of 65 F. 



56 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



High Pressure System. 

When water is heated while it is exposed to the ordinary 
atmospheric pressure it boils at 212 F. If the steam is 
prevented from escaping the pressure inside the closed 
vessel will be increased and the water will not boil until 
a higher temperature is reached. The greater the pressure 
upon the water the higher is the temperature at which it 
boils. The following table gives the boiling-point of water 
at different pressures : 



Pressure (in atmospheres) . 


Boiling Point. 


1 


212 F. 


1-4 


230 F. 


1-96 


248 F. 


2-67 


266 F. 


4-7 


302 F. 


9-9 


356 F. 


15-4 


392 F. 


27-5 


446 F. 



The high pressure system is composed of a single, 
continuous, closed pipe, made of -inch wrought iron, and 
with J-inch internal diameter. From ^ to ^ of the entire 
length of the pipe is arranged as a coil in the furnace in 
the basement. The pipe is completely filled with water. 
From the coil in the furnace the pipe proceeds vertically, 
and goes round each room in turn and returns to the 
bottom of the coil. 

The water is usually heated to 300 F. (representing 
about four or five atmospheres pressure). At the top of 
the system are fixed wicler tubes, called expansion tubes, 
partly filled with air, These allow J!QT the expansion 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



57 



of the water by the heat. About eight feet of this piping 
is equivalent, in its heating power, to 12 feet of the low 




Fig. 19. 

WENHAM AND WATERS' HOT-WATER COIL, 

pressure piping. As a rule the results given by the 
system are not so satisfactory as those obtained by the low 
pressure system, owing to its liability to over-heat the air, 



58 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

Moreover, unless the furnace receives constant attention 
the temperature of the pipes may alter very suddenly. As 
regards the danger from the high pressure the part in the 
furnace is the weakest, and a burst here would probably 
not do any great harm, 




Fig. 20. 

SECTION OF A RADIATOR INTRODUCING WARM FRESH AIR. 

No system of hot water or steam pipes is admissible 
unless proper inlets and outlets are provided for ventilation. 

A convenient method is to substitute for the 4-inch 
pipes and coils radiators composed of hollow columns con- 
nected below with an opening in the wall through which 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 59 

air enters and, after passing through the radiator, is 
discharged into the room fresh and warm, as shown in 
Figs. 19 and 20. 

The Temperature of the Schoolroom. 

In a large majority of schools the temperature is kept 
too high in winter. The best temperature is 60 F. or just 
below, but any temperature between 56 F. and 60 F. may 
be considered satisfactory. Every schoolroom should be 
furnished with two or three thermometers. 

The temperature of a schoolroom should not be allowed 
to fall below 45 F. at any time, night or day, while the 
school is in session. If the walls get quite cold there is a 
difficulty in warming them again; whilst if the room is 
well ventilated by perflation after the class has separated, 
thoroughly cleaned up at once, as it ought to be, and the 
heating apparatus kept on at a lower temperature, the 
room need never get quite cold. The children, under such 
circumstances, are comfortable as soon as they enter the 
room on a cold winter morning, instead of shivering and 
being quite unable to take in the teacher's meaning, as is 
too often now the case. 

It should be hardly necessary to state that temperature 
must be the only guide as to whether it is necessary to 
commence heating the school. Also it is important to 
bear in mind that after the Christmas holidays the rooms 
should be opened, aired, and warmed several days before 
they are required. 

Comparison of the Various Systems of Heating. 

The following summary is given by Carnelley in his 
report to the Dundee School Board : 



60 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

Open Fires. 
Advantages. 

(1) More cheerful. 

(2) First cost much less than hot-pipe systems. 

(3) Keeps air fresher than hot pipes, owing to draft up chimney. 

(4) So far as the Dundee schools are concerned, the temperature 

in the open fire schools was higher than those heated by 
other systems. 

(5) The rooms of these schools will probably need painting less 

frequently than those heated by other systems. ,- . 

Disadvantages. 

(1) Greater labour in service. 

(2) Slightly greater annual cost than stoves or steam-pipes or 

large hot- water pipes. 

(3) Unequal distribution of heat. 

(4) Air more highly charged with micro-organisms. 

Stoves. 
Advantages. 

(1) Smallest first cost. 

(2) Least annual cost. 

(3) Probably more effective heaters than open fires. 

Disadvantages. 

(1) Greater labour in service. 

(2) Require more attention than open fires. 

(3) More liable to smoke than open fires. 

(4) More liable to get out of repair than open fires. 

Hot Pipes. 

Advantages. 

(1) Less labour in service than either open fires or stoves. 

(2) The class is not disturbed as in the case of mending open fires 

and stoves. 

(3) More equal distribution of heat. 

(4) Air less charged with micro-organisms than when open fires 

are used. 

(5) On the whole the annual cost is probably slightly less than 

with open fires, but more than with stores. 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 61 

Disadvantages. 

(1) Not so cheerful as open fires. 

(2) First cost much more than in the case of open fires or stoves. 

(3) Air not so fresh as with open fires. 

Comparison of Hot-pipe Schools. 

(1) Small high-pressure pipes are cheaper in first cost than large 

low-pressure pipes. 

(2) In those schools examined the air was better in rooms heated 

by small high-pressure pipes than in those heated by large 
low-pressure pipes. 

(3) It takes longer to get up the heat with large than with small 

pipes. 

(4) Small pipes are less obtrusive in rooms. 



CHAPTER V. 



VENTILATION. 

" ONE of the most important subjects connected with 
health at school is that which deals with overcrowding. 
' Too many children in the school ' is the impression which 
is upon the mind of every lover of fresh air as soon as he 
sets foot in a school the pupils of which have been assem- 
bled for an hour or two and have remained in the room 
all the time. One seldom goes into any school in the 
middle of working-time, especially in cold weather, without 
being struck with the fact that the air is too impure for 
perfect health. The impurity arises from overcrowding 
connected with a want of ventilation. These two subjects 
are mixed up very much together ; one school with a hun- 
dred boys or girls in it may have a much purer air than 
another of the same size with only fifty, because in the one 
case the products of respiration are rapidly removed, and 
in the other in a great measure retained. The question of 
floor space is an important one, but not nearly so important 
as that of ventilation." (Carpenter.) It is important to 
remember that the question of floor space or cubic space 
per head in no way affects the question of the quantity of 
fresh air per hour that it is necessary to provide. The 
effect of a large area of floor space is simply to delay the 
time when the air would tecome poisonous. Cubic as well 
as floor space is a delusion in various ways ; one room ten 



VENTILATION. 63 

feet high will ventilate better than another fifteen or even 
twenty, because in the one case the windows are carried 
up to the ceiling, and in the other there is seven or eight 
feet of wall between the top of the window and the 
ceiling itself. The age of the children will be a factor in 
the case, though not so great as is often represented ; for 
a child of six or seven requires nearly as much fresh air 
as one double that age. 



THE ATMOSPHERE. 

Ordinary fresh air has the following percentage com 
position : 

Nitrogen (including Argon 1/ ) 79 
Oxygen . . . . . . 2O96 

Carbon Dioxide . . . . '04 



There are also variable quantities of water vapour 
organic matter, ozone, oxides of nitrogen and sulphur, and 
sulphuretted hydrogen in the air ; the first substance being 
usually present, and the others in air under certain condi- 
tions only. There are also suspended particles in the air, 
composed of inorganic and organic materials, and various 
bacteria. 

Expired Air. 

Air that is breathed out of the lungs differs materially 
from ordinary air in its composition. Its percentage 
composition may be represented thus : 

Nitrogen (with Argon) 79 

Oxygen . . . . 16 

Carbon Dioxide . . 4-4 



64 VENTILATION. 

This shows that expired air has less oxygen and more 
carbon dioxide than inspired air. It also is saturated with 
water vapour, is warmer, and contains a considerable 
quantity of organic impurities. This organic matter is 
usually regarded as the most injurious of the impurities 
produced by respiration, although some recent investiga- 
tions are said to negative this statement. There is at 
present no reasonable ground to consider that the injurious 
effects of bad ventilation are not due to the organic con- 
stituents of expired air. 

School Air- 

The air in a schoolroom therefore will differ from 
ordinary air in many particulars which may be thus 
enumerated : 

(1) There will be more than '04 per cent, of carbon 
dioxide present in the air. Most of this excess of carbon 
dioxide will have been produced by respiration, but part 
may have been evolved as a product of the combustion 
of coal, coal gas, or lamps. 

(2) Organic matter from the lungs and skin will be 
present. This is probably the chief source of the offensive 
odour so obvious to anyone entering a badly ventilated 
room from the outer air. 

(3) There will be a decrease in the amount of oxygen, 
resulting in a lowering of the vitality. 

(4) A large increase in the quantity of water vapour 
will take place. This causes discomfort and interferes 
with the proper evaporation of moisture from the surfaces 
of the body. 

(5) The temperature is higher. This increases the 
discomfort caused by the excess of water vapour in the 
air. 

(6) Decomposition of organic matters upon the clothing 



VENTILATION. 65 

and the skin often occurs in schools, especially in poor 
districts, giving rise to offensive odours. 

(7) An increase in the amount of dust, or suspended 
impurity, is common in schools. These particles of dust 
are of the most varied composition, some of the commonest 
being scales of skin, hair, fragments of wool, cotton, silk, 
soot, and common salt, and include many forms of bacterial 
life, and there may be disease germs present. Dust, of 
itself, is injurious, and for this reason the use of crayons, 
which adds considerably to the quantity of dust, is not to 
be recommended. 

(8) There may be some special gaseous impurities present, 
such as carbon monoxide from coal gas, and oxides of 
sulphur, and other gases from the combustion of coal gas. 

Carbon Dioxide. 

The most constant of all these impurities is the carbon 
dioxide, and, as the estimation of the quantity of the gas is 
comparatively easy, it is usual to test the sufficiency or 
otherwise of ventilation by determining the percentage of 
this gas that is present. The method of estimation does 
not concern us here, but a simple test of the purity of the 
air is as follows : Take a stoppered bottle with a capacity 
of 10^ oz. Fill it with the air to be tested by pumping 
through it by means of foot-bellows. ' Add oz. of clear 
lime water, put in the stopper, and shake up. If the 
limewater is turned milky there is an excess of carbon 
dioxide present. This gives a very rough and ready test 
only. Systematic examinations of the air of schools at all 
times of the day by the Education Medical Officer should 
be regarded as essential ; it is only by such tests that the 
ventilation of any school can be regarded as sufficient or 
otherwise. 

SCH. HYQ. 5 



66 VENTILATION. 

One of the simpler but fairly exact methods of ascer- 
taining the amount of carbon dioxide in the air in a school 
is by the use of Scurfield's apparatus. This consists of a 
cylindrical aspirator holding two pints of water, and a rack 
carrying seven tubes which are filled to a given height with 
a weak baryta solution coloured pink by phenolphthalein. 
One tube is connected to the aspirator for each estimation. 
The aspirator is furnished with a vertical gauge divided 
into tenths, each division representing O'l of the cubical 
contents of the aspirator. 

To use it the aspirator is filled with water, and connected 
with one of the tubes. Then the air is drawn through the 
baryta solution until the pink colour disappears. The 
amount of air required to do this is measured by the 
aspirator. If the experiment is made first in the open 
air and repeated in the different rooms of the school it is 
obvious that strictly comparative results will be obtained. 
In the school there will be more carbon dioxide present 
and a proportionally smaller quantity of air will be neces- 
sary to remove the colour from the liquid. Assuming that 
the outside air contains % 04 per cent, of carbon dioxide, it 
is easy to calculate from the results of these experiments 
the amount of carbon dioxide in the air that has been 
tested. 

Permissible quantity of Carbon Dioxide. 

The amount of carbon dioxide in fresh air remains 
fairly constant at about -04 per cent. Any excess over 
this amount is regarded as an impurity. Thus, if a sample 
of ah* was found to contain '07 per cent, of carbon dioxide 
we should say that there was an impurity of -03 per cent, 
of tne gas. An impurity of -02 per cent, is usually re- 
garded as harmless, although a room containing this 
amount of impurity due to respiration smells slightly close 




Fig. 2L 

DR. SoTTRFrKT,D's APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING THK AMOUNT OF OAHBON DlOXIDE 
IN THK AlR IN A ROOM. 



68 VENTILATION. 

to anyone entering from the fresh air. This amount is, 
therefore, called the " maximum permissible impurity," so 
that the maximum total percentage of carbon dioxide that 
may be allowed in air is '06 per cent. 

In crowded schoolrooms and in badly ventilated and 
crowded dwelling-rooms it is not uncommon to find '3 per 
cent, carbon dioxide, a result that is not surprising when 
one considers the extraordinary ideas that prevail as regards 
the necessary cubic space. 

Carnelley, Haldane, and Anderson have stated that the 
above maximum permissible amount of carbon dioxide 
should be considerably increased, and that for schools the 
limit of carbon dioxide should be "13 per cent., which 
represents an impurity of '09 per cent. If such standards 
are adopted irreparable injury will continue to be inflicted 
upon the children. 

Amount of Carbon Dioxide produced by Respiration. 

The average adult at rest produces '6 cubic feet of carbon 
dioxide per hour by respiration. Children produce larger 
quantities in proportion to their weight, and on an average 
three children of ten years of age produce as much carbon 
dioxide as two adults. 

The amount of carbon dioxide iexpired is increased by 
active work, and is influenced by diet, weight, and sex, but 
for school purposes *4 cubic feet of carbon dioxide per head 
per hour is a convenient basis for calculation. 

Amount of Fresh Air required. 

We may assume that -02 per cent, of carbon dioxide can 
be added to fresh air without causing it to be injurious to 
health. Also that the average child at school produces 
*4 cubic feet of carbon dioxide per hour. The calculation 



VENTILATION. 69 

of the amount of fresh air required per head per hour 
proceeds as follows : - 

02 cubic feet of carbon dioxide may be added to 100 

cubic feet of fresh air ; 
/. '04 cubic feet of carbon dioxide may be added to 200 

cubic feet of fresh air ; 
/. '4 cubic feat of carbon dioxide may be added to 2000 

cubic feet of fresh air. 

The standard adopted by law in some of the American 
States is 1800 cubic feet per hour. The above calculation 
shows that there should be supplied 2000 cubic feet of 
fresh air for each scholar per hour. If the cubic space 
allowed per head is 100 cubic feet, this amounts to com- 
pletely changing the air of the room twenty times per hour, 
which is a very difficult matter. If the space per head 
which is laid down as necessary earlier in this book, viz. 
200 cubic feet, is adopted the air will have to be changed 
ten times in the hour. Apart from special appliances for 
ventilation the air in a room usually changes once an hour 
through the walls and crevices of doors and windows, 
leaving the problem at changing the air nine times in the 
hour, or once every seven minutes. 

Organic Matter. 

The organic impurity in air is estimated with much more 
difficulty than the carbon dioxide, and it is therefore usual 
to estimate the quantity of carbon dioxide that is present, 
and to infer from these results how much organic matter 
must have accompanied the carbon dioxide. This is gener- 
ally reliable because the organic matter appears to be an 
invariable accompaniment of the carbon dioxide produced 
by respiration, and so the quantity of carbon dioxide in 
the air of a room may be taken as a fair index of its purity. 

The detection of the organic matter is comparatively 



70 VENTILATION. 

simple. If a large amount of the air is drawn through 
some distilled water the organic impurities are retained by 
the water, and, if kept a short time, quickly decompose 
and evolve a very offensive smell. Or the air may be drawn 
through strong sulphuric acid, which chars the organic 
matter and becomes brown. Still another method is to 
draw the air through water rendered pink by acidified 
permanganate of potash. Organic matter soon removes 
the bright pink colour. 

Effects of Bad Ventilation. 

Living in a badly ventilated room for a few hours pro- 
duces drowsiness and headache, a sense of oppression and 
discomfort, slowing of the heart's action, and quickening 
of respiration, and interferes greatly with the efficiency of 
the teacher and the scholars. The power of concentration 
on the part of the scholars is also greatly decreased. Tin 
fortunately the evil does not stop here. A lowering of the 
vitality results, and there is an increased tendency to 
contract diseases of all kinds. Under such conditions 
consumption very often occurs, and infectious diseases, 
when once started, spread very rapidly. Anaemia, loss of 
appetite, and impairment of nutrition commonly result 
from bad ventilation. A striking illustration of the rela- 
tionship between foul air and consumption is given by the 
following statistics contained in the report of the Army 
Sanitary Commission. Foot Guards had been allowed 331 
cubic feet of space per man in their barracks, and the 
death-rate from consumption among them amounted to 
13-8 per 1000 ; while the Horse Guards, with a cubic space 
of 572 feet per man, showed a mortality of only 7- 3 per 
1000. On increasing the cubic space per head there was a 
very marked diminution of the mortality from all causes. 
Under the greatly improved conditions the death-rate from 



VENTILATION. /I 

consumption in the Army at the present time is slightly 
below that of the male civil population at the same age, 
whereas fifty } r ears ago it was in notable excess of that 
amount. The frequent occurrence of the disease in animals 
kept in confinement serves as another illustration of the 
relationship that undoubtedly exists between consumption 
and the breathing of a vitiated atmosphere. 

Hamer says, " The evidence which has accumulated in 
recent years as to the dissemination of certain diseases, 
particularly diphtheria, scarlet fever, and measles, in school 
class-rooms, is quite conclusive as to the risk incurred by 
bringing together a number of children within a confined 
space, unless the most thorough precautionary measures 
are undertaken with a view to the detection and exclusion 
of sufferers from the maladies referred to." As a matter 
of fact the absolute exclusion of every one of these cases is 
not possible at present, and probably never will be. But 
the risk of contagion would be greatly decreased if the 
ventilation of our schools were brought up to a higher 
standard. Improved ventilation would not only effect this 
by simple dilution, but would also result in an improved 
physical condition of the children, so that they would not 
be so liable to contract any disease. Shutting up children 
in badly ventilated rooms brings about a bodily condition 
which offers little or no resistance 'to invasion by the 
micro-organisms of disease. 

Extreme cases, such as are illustrated by the incident of 
the Black Hole of Calcutta, show that when the products 
of respiration are breathed in a concentrated condition 
rapid poisoning results. At Calcutta 146 persons were 
imprisoned in a room about 18 feet square, and with only 
two small windows. In the morning there were 123 dead 
and, of the 23 who were living, several afterwards died of 
putrid fever, the effects of the organic poison they had 



72 VENTILATION. 

inhaled. A similar catastrophe befell the steerage passen- 
gers of the Londonderry who, in 1848, were shut down in 
the cabin during a storm. Among those who recovered 
from the immediate ill-effects many suffered from fever 
and mal-nutrition. Such extreme cases are not likely to 
occur in schools and are mentioned simply in order to 
illustrate the fact that we have to deal with a poisonous 
pollution of the air. 

Methods of Ventilation. 

The efficient ventilation of schools is undoubtedly one of 
the most important problems of the hour. In a great 
number of the older schools the question of ventilation 
does not appear to have been considered in any way, while 
in the more modern ones elaborate installations have been 
fixed at a great cost without any corresponding satisfaction. 

The methods of ventilation may be divided into two 
kinds the natural and the artificial. By natural ventila- 
tion we mean any method that depends upon the natural 
forces which set air in motion, and does not involve the 
use of any mechanical means for the renewal of the air. 
Artificial ventilation, on the other hand, depends upon the 
use of pumps, fans, bellows, etc. 



NATURAL VENTILATION. 

Two properties of gases play a very important part in 
the theory of ventilation; these are (1) diffusion, and (2) 
changes in the density of the air produced by heat. 

Diffusion is the property of gases to mix thoroughly and 
completely even against gravity, i.e. a heavy gas will diffuse 
upwards and completely mix with a lighter gas, and a light 
gas will diffuse downwards and mix with a heavier one. 



VENTILATION. 



73 



For instance, if in Fig. 22 the upper jar is filled with coal 
gas, which is a light gas, and the lower jar with air, which 
is a comparatively heavy one, then, 011 removing the plates 
between them and allowing them to diffuse about half an 
hour, the lower jar will be found to contain just as much 
coal gas as the upper jar, and both may be lighted. Of 
course, if the heavy gas is placed above the light or>^, the 
mixing will take place more rapidly. The same result 
would be obtained, after a longer 
time, if a partition of some 
porous substance, such as un- 
glazed earthenware, were placed 
between the jars. It is found 
that the lighter a gas is the faster 
it diffuses, and that if a light gas 
is on one side of a porous par- 
tition and a heavier gas on the 
other, then the light gas will 
diffuse through into the heavy 
one faster than the heavy gas 
will diffuse into the light one. 

Now in an ordinary room the 
air is warmer and, as we shall see, 
lighter than the cold air outside. 
Diffusion outwards, therefore, will take "place at a greater 
rate than diffusion inwards, and fresh air will enter the 
room not only as the result of this process of diffusion, 
but also in order to equalise the pressure inside and out- 
side the room. Diffusion through the walls of a room is 
greatly interfered with by the paper, plaster, and paint 
with which the walls are covered. As an example of the 
power of diffusion as a ventilating force it is said that 
in the case of a cubical room with brick walls, contents 
3000 cubic feet, and difference of temperature between the 



- jar con \a in ing 
coal gas 



- jar containing 
air 



Fig. 22. 

DIFFUSION. 



74 



VENTILATION. 



inside and outside air being 35 Fahr., the air would be 
completely changed in one hour by diffusion alone. 

Changes in Density of Air. 

When air is heated it expands. For this reason a pint 
of cold air will weigh heavier than a pint of hot air. Hot 
air. therefore rises and cold air will take its place. This 
is exactly how winds are produced. The surface of part 
of the earth becomes heated by the sun ; this warins the 
air in contact with it and causes it to expand an-d rise ; the 




t 
t 

t n 




Fig. 23. 



EFFECT OF CHIMNEY. 



colder surrounding air then rushes in to take its place and 
a wind is produced. 

The application of this to ventilation is easy. Foul air 
being a product of respiration and combustion is always 
hotter than the fresh air, and so it will rise, and if an 
opening is provided, it will escape. Fresh air will then 
enter through any opening to take its place. For the same 



VENTILATION. 



75 



reason the hot air over a fire goes up the chimney, and is 
replaced by fresh and colder air entering by windows, 
door, keyholes, and cracks. 

Wind, as a ventilating agent, may act in two ways : 

(1) By perflation, i.e. by blowing through a room when 
the doors and windows are open. 

(2) By aspiration. This is illustrated by the draught 
up a chimney when there is no fire below. The wind blow- 
ing over the top of the chimney lessens the pressure of air 
in the chimney, producing an up-draught, while fresh air 
is drawn into the room to take its place. In crowded 
courts surrounded by higher buildings this ventilating 
action of the wind is greatly interfered with. 

There are a number of appliances for ventilation which 
make use of this aspirating 
effect of the wind. Boyle's 
ventilators and Banner's 
cowls are two forms which 
are widely used. 

Boyle's Air-pump Venti- 
lator has fixed openings on 
different sides. (See Fig. 
24.) The wind, blowing from 
almost any direction, passes 
through some of the openings 
and out of the opposite ones. 
In doing so, air is extracted 
from the tube or air-exit 
over which the ventilator is 
placed. 

Banner's Cowl sets itself, by means of a wind vane, so 
that the opening is always directed to face the wind. 




Fig. 24. 



BOVLF.'S Am PUMP VENTILATOR. 



76 VENTILATION. 

\ 
OPENINGS FOR VENTILATION. 

Outlets for foul air and inlets for fresh air must both 
be provided. It is a common practice to provide the outlet 
only and to make no provision for the entrance of fresh 
air. In order to provide the necessary 2000 cubic feet of 
fresh air per hour an opening of 16 square inches must be 
provided, assuming the air to enter the room at an average 
velocity of 5 feet per second. An outlet of the saine or 
larger size is necessary. In a class-room for 48 scholars 
the inlets should therefore have a minimum total area of 
5 square feet and the outlets the same or rather more. 
The ventilation inlet opening recommended by the Board of 
Education is certainly inadequate, and betrays an entire 
ignorance of the subject. 

Position of Inlets and Outlets. 

Outlets for natural ventilation are usually provided close 
to the ceiling, and the inlets at about five feet above the 
floor. The inlets should be so arranged as to direct the 
current of air upwards. 

The ventilating appliances for natural ventilation, in 
addition to those which take advantage of the action of 
the wind, are conveniently divided in four groups, (1) the 
chimney ; (2) window ventilation ; (3) openings at or near 
the floor level with vertical tubes or shafts; (4) openings 
in the wall or roof. 

The Chimney. 

The chimney, if present, acts as an excellent and most 
efficient outlet. If a fire is burning in the grate the action 
is to rush air out of the room at a great rate, and when 
there is no fire the chimney is still a valuable outlet. 



VENTILATION. 



77 



Window Ventilation. 



(a) The simplest and most obvious method of ventilation 
is that of open windows ; and in warm weather it is un- 
doubtedly the best. In cold weather, however, it is very 
liable to produce draughts. 

(b) The upper part of the window can be made to work- 




Fig. 25. 

HINGKK TOP TO WINDOW. 



on a hinge so that the top moves into the room. Trian- 
gular pieces of glass or wood should be placed at the sides 
to prevent down draught. The current of fresh air will 
then be directed upwards, as is the case with all efficient 
ventilators. Similar hopper openings can be arranged 6 
feet from the floor and may act as inlets or outlets. 



Closed window 



U 



outside 



CD 



n 



Lower sasft raised 
&wood inserted 



LJ 



inside outside 



6 



inside 



D 



Si'deViow 



Fig. 26. 
HINCKES BIRD'S METHOD. 

Fro n rinside~viow 




Fig. 27. 

LOUTRE VBNTILATOE. 
78 



VENTILATION. 



79 




(c) A very simple and excellent method, of window 
ventilation is that suggested 
by Hinckes Bird. The lower 
sash is raised, and a block of 
wood is accurately fitted in 
the opening below so as to 
completely close it. Fresh air 
enters between the two sashes 
and is directed upwards. 



(cT) Louvre Ventilator. 

One or more of the 
ordinary panes of glass are 
removed and the space fitted 
with strips of glass arranged 
in exactly the same way as 
a Venetian blind. The space 
between the strips can be 
adjusted by cords. The 
strips slant upwards from 
the outside, and direct the 
current of air upwards. 

(e) An excellent form of 
window ventilation is that 
of the Chaddock Window 
(Fig. 28). The ease of 
manipulation is remarkable, 
and the results obtained are 
extremely satisfactory. 




Fig. 28. 



THE CHADUOCK WINDOW. 



Openings near Floor with Vertical Shafts : 

Tobins Tubes. The air enters from the outside through 
an opening in the wall at the floor level; it is then directed 
upwards by the vertical shaft or tube about six feet high. 



80 



VENTILATION. 



At the top the tube is fitted with a valve by means of 
which the amount of air coming in may bo regulated. 




Fig. 29. 

TOBIN'S TUBE. 



Openings in Walls or Roofs. 

I. Inlets: 

(a) The Sherrinyham Valve is a simple and a very good 
inlet ventilator. A hole is made in the wall about seven 




Fig. 30. 

IEKRINOIMM VALVE. 



or eight feet from the floor. Into this is fitted an iron 
box, with a grating on the outside and a hopper valve on 
the inside. The air passes from the outside through the 



VENTILATION. 81 

grating and into the room through the valve, the size of 
which may be regulated by a pulley. The inside aperture 
of the ventilator is larger than the outer, so that draughts 
are not usually produced. 

(b) Ellison s Brides. Each brick is perforated with 
conical holes, the apex of the cone being towards the outer 
air, so that the incoming current of air has its channel 
continuously increased in size, thereby causing its velocity 
to be decreased. The action of these conical holes may be 
very simply illustrated by a cone of paper. Direct the 
large opening towards a lighted candle and send a puff 
of breath down the small opening. The candle is hardly 



In si do 




^,J. inside 
outsider 

I ] 

Fig. 31. 

ELLISON'* Am BRICKS, 

affected. If the cone is now reversed and the experiment 
repeated the candle will at once be blown out. 

II. Outlets : 

(a) The chief outlet, as we have said, is the chimney. 
When a fire is burning, from 5,000 to 25,000 cubic feet of 
air pass up the chimney per hour. 

(fe) Arnott'a Valve is an outlet made to be fixed in the 
wall so as to open into the chimney. It consists of an iron 
box with a light metal valve capable of swinging towards 
the chimney, but not into the room. The foul air can 
therefore pass up the chimney, but the smoke cannot pass 

SCH. HYQ. 6 



82 VENTILATION. 

into the room. An objectionable feature of these venti- 
lators is the clicking noise they make. Also, when in any 

way out of order, they 
admit smoke from the 
chimney. Fig. 32 shows 
an improved method. 
The outlet shaft is built 
alongside the chimney 
shaft and acts as an 



;.; \MicaFlap hijlfj \NlicaFlap jj 

ii.iliiiiliiiiiii^'iilii'i iiiMiiiiiihiiiiiiiil 




Fig. 32. efficient outlet. 

(c) Boyle' s Mica Flap 

Ventilator is simply an improvement upon Arnott's valve. 
Instead of one valve there are four or more small ones 
made of thin talc. 

(d) McKinnett's Ventilator. For rooms having no other 
rooms above them this ventilator is usually very efficient. 
It acts as an inlet and outlet. There are two concentric 
tubes as shown in the figure. The inner tube forms an 
outlet, and the space between the tubes forms the inlet. 

Value of Natural Ventilation. 

It is necessary to preface any remarks upon the subject 
with the statement that attempts to ventilate schools by 
na.tural ventilation are usually of the most crude and 
elementary description. When a building is to be venti- 
lated by artificial means very careful calculations are made, 
and the whole system is fully planned and thought out from 
beginning to end ; but with natural ventilation little or no 
trouble is taken, and there is usually no systematic attempt 
to deal with the difficulty. If the same serious efforts were 
devoted towards effecting efficient ventilation by natural 
means as are always given to the provision and maintenance 
of artificial ventilation, it is at all events possible that 
much more satisfactory results would be obtained. 








> 


\ 


i 






















1 


it 


* 


TT 


-Y- 


-p- 


- r - 


- r 






- T - 


L T~ 








1 


S 


i 


c 


i; 


1 


\ 


1 






1 


I 








i 


L - 




1 


p-L 


1 


1 


r-L-i 






r L- 


i 










l 




G 


|; 


| 


I 


| 






| 


I 








I 






i 


























I 




L 


l 


1 


1 


1 






1 


1 








l 
































I 




^, 


IN 


| 


| 


| 






| 


| 








I 






\ 


























1 




I k 


| 


k . | 


| 


| 






j 


| 








1 
































t 




1 


'I 


l\ 


1 


I 






1 


1 








1 










' 


. 




























V 1 


'.1 


















1 






























i 






1 


1 


V 


G 


1 






1 


1 














1 


I 


1 


. | 


'1 






| 


| 








1 














I 






















{ 


| 


1 


1 


I 






| 


| 








i 




































1 


1 


1 _ 




- -1- -- 








i 








I 








_- 


'" 










.. 
















1 


1 


A- ' 


i 


1 






.'1 


I 








1 


r 






| 




Z3Z 








1 


1 








J_ 






n 














I 


| 














i 


1 












1 


I 








i l 




































i 


1 












I 


1 








i 




































]__ 


1 | 












I 


1 








I 






























1 






i 














1 











Fig. 33. 

OHTMNKY BUKAST AIR OUTLET. 




Fig. 34. 

VKNTILATOR. 
83 



84 



VENTILATION. 



In summer, when there is no need to introduce warmed 
air, there should be little difficulty in supplying the neces- 
sary amount. At the same time it must be admitted that 
the admission and circulation of fresh air direct from the 
outside can be much more efficiently controlled by separate 
fans for each room. Small electric fans are not very costly 
and are very efficient ventilators, whether used for extrac- 
tion or propulsion. Ventilation on such lines has the great 




\HEATING 
BATTERY, 
COIL, OR FAN 

Fig. 35. 
THE MOST RELIABLE FOUM OP AIR OCTLKT. 



advantage of working in conjunction with widely open 
windows and ventilators, thereby affording the children 
an object lesson that might be applied to the proper venti- 
lation of their homes. Any system of ventilation that 
demands closed doors and windows in hot weather is not 
to be recommended for school purposes. 

In winter, when all air that is admitted must be 
warmed, the use of radiators, in the form of modified 
Tobin's tubes, act very well as a rule, or the various 



.:_:0.'V 
\S-c:'; 




I ' ' . 






T3 

3 


. - -D ' H ' - 




1 r~ * 








c'.m.';. 













'. 33-33 .'. 




' ' 








,'H'. > 




' \ ' ^i 








. : -'.v 5: . : ': 




\ . ' 


\ 




w 







. v . ' 


X 




3 






\ ' 


^L 






.* * " I * 




' \ ' 


J 











. x 


^*s 


iPLAY.E 




;;,'y,v. v / 




. \ 


^ 


^^^^^^ 




:'.-' : .', :.. 




s' 


) 




^ 






' / , 


V 


^^ 






. 


'. 1 


\ 


0) 


3 


'* ''' '.*. ' 




. 1 . 


\ 


i- 
H 




! "'' . "* 




. 1 '. 




V 


CO 












o 



Vols.of C0 2 in 1 0,000 Vols. 



' T3 

m 

33 







o p > 

O r W 

^ fO r 

O o! H 



85 



^PLAY. 



-&J 

If 

<wg 

o-E 



K 
5f 






RR 



Vols. of C0 2 in 10,000.^ 

Ot O 01 







VENTILATION. 87 

forms of ventilating stoves and grates can be relied upon 
to introduce large volumes of warmed air. The chief 
difficulty is the control of the inlet or outlet, and this is 
best secured by the use of a small fan ; but where fans are 
too costly or impossible a careful and serious supervision 
of the ventilating scheme will always produce fairly satis- 
factory results, provided that the inlets and outlets are 
sufficient for the purpose. 

The outside openings of air inlets should be not less than 
six feet above the outside ground level in order to prevent 
the entrance of an excessive amount of dust ; or niters may 
be arranged for the same purpose. Extraction may be 
controlled by using flues communicating with a vertical 
shaft, in the centre of which a cast-iron smoke pipe, from 
the furnace, is fixed. This hot surface rarefies the vitiated 
air and causes a continuous up-draught. 

Natural ventilation has been subjected to somewhat 
exaggerated condemnation. The results that have been 
obtained have undoubtedly merited the most severe dis 
approval ; these have not been produced by natural ventila- 
tion, but, in the author's experience, by an almost entire * 
absence of any form of efficient ventilators. Dr. Kerr 
has published results which show most graphically the 
superiority in the condition of the air in mechanically 
ventilated schools over that in the schools ventilated by 
natural means. The results possibly illustrate the dif- 
ference in the atmosphere maintained by a carefully 
supervised system on the one hand, and an ill-planned 
and inadequate system with no supervision on the other. 
In Dr. Kerr's opinion " there is no comparison between 
artificial and natural ventilation. Natural ventilation, 
in fact, means no ventilation at all." Such statements 
are deplorable and show a total lack of appreciation of 
the possibilities of real ventilation by natural means. 



88 VENTILATION. 

Dr. Eeid's experiments with the Staffordshire type of 
school show conclusively that excellent ventilation may be 
achieved by natural means, and experiments carried out 
by the author serve to show that if intelligent supervision 
is exercised over these methods the results are as good as 
those obtained by mechanical means, while the educational 
effect is greatly superior. On the other hand, Dr. Kerr 
admits that " the artificial systems mean that doors and 
windows must be shut, and that alone gives a feeling of 
' closed-in-ness ' to the people who work in the room." 



AETIFICIAL VENTILATION. 

The methods of artificial ventilation depend either upon 
one of the following processes, or upon the two combined : 

1. Extraction processes, or vacuum methods, in which 

the vitiated air is forced out of the room, and 
fresh air enters mainly through inlets provided. 

2. Propulsion processes, or plenum methods, in which 

the fresh air is forced into the room, and the 
foul air escapes through the usual outlets. 
A combination of the two systems is usually advisable, 
but where one only is adopted the propulsion process is 
usually regarded as preferable, because the air can then be 
obtained from a known inlet, and can be warmed, filtered, 
and otherwise treated before it enters the rooms. If 
extraction is employed the sources of fresh air cannot be 
controlled so easily as in the case of propulsion, but it is 
possible that this method may be found eventually to be 
the more satisfactory. 

Fans. 

Fans are usually relied upon in all systems for the 
artificial ventilation of schools. The open-blade types of 



VENTILATION. 



89 



fan are preferable, as they are easily kept in order and are 
economical. An electric fan ten feet in diameter, running 
at ninety revolutions per minute, and delivering 2,115,000 
cubic feet of air per hour is used in the Bradford schools, 
and costs the astonishingly small sum of T3 pence per 
hour. 




Fig. 38. 



COMBINED FAN AND MOTOR. 



Fans may be driven by electric motors, by steam, or by 
a gas engine. Electricity should always be used where 
possible, as it possesses the combined advantages of being 
cheap, noiseless, and inodorous. 



90 VENTILATION. 

Cost. 

The cost of fuel in schools ventilated by mechanical 
means should be less than in schools which rely upon natural 
methods. In Bradford the cost for fuel per ten square 
feet floor space is slightly over tenpence in mechanically 
ventilated schools, and nearly elevenpence halfpenny in 
those ventilated by natural means. 

Method. 

The air inlet should be arranged on that side of the 
building which is most likely to yield the purest supply. 
The air should be drawn from a point as high above the 
ground as possible. It should be of ample size, greatly 
in excess of its theoretical requirements. The main air- 
ducts should be very large, and not less than six feet 
high, in order that regular and thorough inspection may 
be maintained. They must be made with smooth surfaces; 
preferably lined with glazed bricks, in order to give as 
little resistance to the inflowing air as possible. If the 
ducts are lined with glazed bricks they must be cleaned 
at least once a year. Unglazed surfaces should be carefully 
and regularly limewashed. 

Propulsion. 

The air is drawn by the fan first over a coil of steam 
pipes, called the tempering coil, which are used only in 
frosty weather, and then through a filter made of coarse 
jute cloth, or other satisfactory material, with a water 
spray attached. A layer of coke between wire netting 
makes a satisfactory filter. Cheese cloth screens have also 
proved to be very efficient. The use of the water spray in 
warm weather probably makes the air too humid. It is 
necessary when the air is being warmed, and additional 
moisture should be supplied. The current of air then 
passes through the fan and along the main duct, from 



VENTILATION. 



91 



which it enters the branch ducts which lead to the different 
parts of the building. At the entrances of branch ducts 
additional steam coils may be placed if it is desirable 
to keep one part of the building at a higher temperature 
than the rest, or to afford increased heat to provide for 




Fig. 39. 

FAN AND COKE FILTER. 

loss during passage through long ducts or for exposed 
rooms. 

Source of Heat. 

It is important to avoid the use of excessively hot pipes. 
A maximum limit of 228 F., equal to a pressure of 5 Ibs. 
on the boiler, should be adopted. If higher temperatures 
are used, the air becomes " burnt " or " dead," and loses 
its "vitality." Possibly a, great deal of the feeling of 



92 



VENTILATION. 



oppression that many people experience in mechanically 
ventilated buildings is due to this cause. 




Fig. 40. 

DIAGRAMMATIC PLAN OK MECHANICAL VENTILATION. 

a. Opening for fresh air ; 6, Small hot water pipes for use in frosty weather 
c , Filter ; d, Fan ; e, Hot water pipes ; /, Branch ducts. 

Inlets and Outlets. 

From the branch ducts there pass vertical flues 
leading to each room. These open into the room about 
eight feet above the floor. The outlet should be placed 
on the same wall, quite close to the floor. These positions 
for the inlet and outlet respectively are the out- 
come of a series of experiments made with a view of de- 
termining the respective positions for the inlet and outlet 
which would result in the most complete change in the air 
of the room. All other positions for the inlet and outlet 
were found to leave almost unchanged the layer of air, 
four feet deep, that rests on the floor. This layer is, of 
course, the air which is of the greatest importance, as the 
scholars live in it. The above arrangement not only pro- 
duces a better distribution of the fresh air, but is more 



VENTILATION. 93 

economical in the working, as there is a greater amount of 
heat extracted from the air before it is finally discharged. 

The inlet should be as large as possible : it is an ad- 
vantage to arrange several inlets along the same wall, and 
tho same number of outlets below. The total area of 
inlet for a room 30 feet by 25 feet should not be less than 
five square feet; the larger the area of openings the better 
the results are as a 
rule, because the air 
can then be admitted at 
a slow speed. The aim 
should be to deliver as 
large a volume of air 
at as slow a speed as ^ 

possible. Six feet per 

, -, T , Fig. 40 A. 

second should repre- 

INLET AND OUTF.KT FOR MECHANICAL 

sent a maximum per- 



missible velocity. 

The inlets should be either left open or be covered with 
a wire screen with wide meshes, at least 1 J inches. 

Extraction. 

The outlets near the floor level communicate with the foul 
air duct which, in its turn, communicates with a vertical 
upcast shaft. The vertical shaft should be of very large 
sectional area and, as a rule, some assistance is necessary 
in order to secure a strong up-draught here. The me- 
thods that may be adopted for this purpose include 

(1) A fan fixed near the top of the vertical shaft. This 
is by far the best arrangment, as the whole system is then 
duplicated to a certain extent, so that, if the plenum fan 
breaks down, the other can still carry on a certain amount 
of ventilation. Another important advantage is that the 
amount of extraction can be regulated. 



94 VENTILATION. 

(2) A central cast-iron pipe bearing hot waste gases 
from the furnace. 

(3) Lighted gns jets or steam jets at the bottom of the shaft 

Cool Air in Summer. 

If the fresh air duct is carried underneath the basement 
the air supplied during the hot weather will be cooled 
several degrees. Great care should be taken, if this plan 
is adopted, to construct the duct so as to be impervious 
to moisture and to ground air. 

To test Ventilation. 

The only completely satisfactory test is to analyse the 



Fig. 41. 




air in the rooms at short intervals throughout the day, 
Another method is to measure by an anemometer the 
speed of the incoming fresh air as it passes the inlet, 



VENTILATION. 95 

estimate from this and the area of the inlet the volume of 
air that is entering per minute, and compare this with the 
necessary amount, which is, as we have said above, 30 cubic 
feet per scholar. The anemometer is placed in the aperture 
of the inlet, about two-fifths of the distance between the 
centre and the margin, and the delicate blades are driven 
by the current of air. These turn an axis with an endless 
screw running on small toothed wheels which record the 
results on the dial. Too much reliance, however, must not 
be placed upon results obtained in this way. 

The importance of determining the amount of moisture 
in the air is referred to later on. 

Town Schools. 



The method usually advocated for town schools is the 
one already described, i.e. a combination of extraction with 
propulsion. This, if properly planned and intelligently 
supervised, gives excellent results, but suffers from the 
serious disadvantage of necessitating closed windows for 
its efficient working. In winter, before entering the room, 
the air may be warmed to the extent necessary to keep the 
room at the desired temperature, or, as is often advisable, 
it is simply introduced at the desired temperature, and the 
warmth of the room is maintained by coils or radiators 
placed along the walls of the room. This separate method 
for heating and ventilating has the advantage of making 
it possible to maintain the temperature of the school, 
through the night in winter, without keeping up the 
ventilation as well^a very economical arrangement. 

Large Village Schools. 

The cost of any mechanical system is usually too great 
for these schools. Many of them are heated by hot-water 
pipes under the high or the low pressure system, and some 



96 VENTILATION. 

plan should be adopted, such as ventilating radiators, 
whereby warm air can be admitted. Additional pipes to 
warm the room should be available for very cold weather. 
Ventilating grates and stoves may also be adopted in such 
cases. Attention should be directed to the adequate pro- 
vision of outlets, which, in order to be under some control, 
may be connected with a main vertical shaft fitted with 
some appliance for heating and causing a continuous 'cur- 
rent of air. In summer some system of natural ventilation, 
preferably by windows, should be carefully arranged. 

Rural Schools. 

Some form of ventilating stoves or grates is necessary in 
winter. Stoves are often used. Willoughby recommends 
a form which is much used in Canadian schools. It can 
be arranged to introduce fresh warm air and also to aid 
extraction. The opening for the purpose of supplying the 
stove with fuel should be as narrow as possible. The 
fresh air passes from the outside along the duct beneath 
the floor into the space between the stove and its sheet-iron 
jacket, where it is warmed, and then into the room. The 
space between the jacket and the stove should be at least 
eighteen inches. 

On the opposite side of the room a tin extraction duct 
should be constructed with its open end about one foot 
above the floor. Cross section dimensions of 12 X 6 inches 
are recommended, but for large rooms there should be two 
such ducts. The duct passes up vertically, then bends 
and passes horizontally along the ceiling, and communicates 
with a large flue, in the centre of which the stove pipe is 
fixed. The heat of the pipe causes this flue to act as an 
extraction force. For summer use there should be ample 
ventilation possible by doors, windows, or special ventila- 
tor openings. 



VENTILATION. 97 

WATER VAPOUR. 

Evaporation is constantly going 011 from the surface of 
water and from moist earth, but the rate is continually 
varying. At the same time large quantities of water 
vapour are being poured into the air by the respiration oi 
animals and many cases of combustion. 

If the temperature were kept fixed, a limit would soon be 
reached and the air would then be incapable of receiving 
any more water vapour, and no more evaporation would 
go on from the surface of water. When the air at any 
given temperature contains as much water vapour as it 
can hold it is said to be saturated, and while it is capable 
of holding more it is unsaturated. The warmer the air the 
greater is the amount of water vapour that it can hold. 
If, therefore, the temperature of a certain quantity of 
saturated air be raised it ceases to be saturated and 
becomes unsaturated, because it is now capable of taking 
up more water vapour. On the other hand, if the tem- 
perature of a given volume of saturated air is lowered 
it becomes incapable of holding so much water, therefore 
some of it appears in the form of rain or dew. If some 
unsaturated air is cooled sufficiently a temperature is 
eventually reached at which the amount of moisture is 
sufficient to make the air saturated. This temperature is 
called the " dew point." If the air is now still further 
cooled a deposit of dew takes place. This is easily illus- 
trated by placing a flask filled with cold water in a hot 
room. It soon becomes covered with a deposit of dew. 

When air is close to its saturation point it is said to be 
moist, and when far from saturated it is called dry air. 
As a rule the atmosphere contains from 1 to l per cent, of 
water vapour. The amount of water vapour present in 
the air is not usually expressed as a percentage, i.e. the 

SCH. HYO. 7 



98 VENTILATION. 

number of grains of water contained in 100 grains of air. 
It is more usually expressed in terms of the " relative 
humidity," which gives far more useful information than 
the simple percentage does. Eelative humidity may be 
denned as : 
The amount of 

water vapour actually present in a given volume of air ^^ 

water vapour that would be present if the air were saturated 

This is best illustrated by actual figures. The following 
table shows roughly the number of grains of water that 
will saturate a cubic foot of air at the given temperatures : 



2 


grains at 30 F. 


8^ grains at 72 F. 


3 


41 F. 


9 


74 F. 


3 


45 F. 


"2 


75-5 F. 


4 


49 F. 


10 


77 F. 


4 


53 F. 


10| 


78-5 F. 


5 


56 F. 


11 - 


80 F. 


5* 


59 F. 


m 


81-5 F. 


6 


., 61 F. 


12 


83 F. 


6 


64 F. 


12^ 


84-5 F. 


7 


66 F. 


13 


86 F. 


7* 


68 F. 


13^ 


87 F. 


8 


,, 70 F. 


14 


,,.88F. 



Thus if air at 49 F. contained 4 grains of water per cubic 
foot it would be saturated, or its relative humidity would be 

i X 100 = 100 degrees of humidity. 

Again, if air at 70 F. contained 4 grains of water per 
cubic foot it has only four grains out of a possible eight, 
and the relative humidity would be 

f X 100 = 50 degrees. 
If this air cooled down to 40 F. it would become satu- 



VENTILATION. 



99 



rated, because the 4 grains of water are all that it can hold 
now, so that 49 would be the dew point. 

The sensations of moisture and dryness of the air depend 
entirely upon the relative humidity and not upon the actual 
quantity of water vapour that may be present; so that 
there may be a far greater quantity of water in the air on 
a hot dry summer's day than on a cold damp winter's day. 



p- 


no no 




100 100 




90 90 




80 00 




70 70 




-en 60 




-50 so 




40 40 




30 30 




20 20 




-10 |0 




R ' 


\ 


o 1 


J 

^ 


t 



Fig. 42. 
WET AND DRY BULB HYGROMETER. 



With moderate temperatures the most agreeable degree of 
humidity is between 65 and 75 degrees. Excessive hu- 
midity of the air is undoubtedly depressing and" enervating. 



160 

A hot moist atmosphere is particularly unpleasant, while 
very high temperatures may be borne without discomfort 
if the air is dry. A low degree of humidity appears to 
suit persons suffering from the early stages of phthisis, 
and their removal to such a climate is often attended by 
most satisfactory results. 

The humidity of the air in a school should be between 
55 and 60 per cent. Some forms of heating appliances; such 
as hot pipes, usually dry the air too much, and so vapour 
must be added. The simplest instrument by means of 
which the amount of moisture in the air can be determined 
is called the "wet and dry bulb hygrometer." The instru- 
ment consists of two ordinary thermometers fixed side by 
side on a frame. The bulb of one of the thermometers is 
covered with muslin which is kept constantly moist by 
means of a piece of lamp-wick which dips into a vessel 
containing distilled water. 

The evaporation of the water from the muslin sur- 
rounding the wet bulb causes heat to be absorbed, and so 
the wet-bulb thermometer usually registers a lower tem- 
perature than the dry one. The difference between the 
two readings depends upon, and is a measure of, the 
dryness of the air. If the air is dry there will be rapid 
evaporation taking place from the wet bulb, causing rapid 
absorption of heat, and so the reading of the wet-bulb 
thermometer will be considerably lower than the dry one. 
On the other hand, if the air is moist and nearly saturated 
there will be little difference between the two, because 
evaporation takes place very slowly under these condition^. 
If the air is saturated there will be no evaporation and the 
readings will be the same. 

The instrument should be hung in the room in a situa- 
tion where there are not likely to be draughts or direct 
sunlight. The readings of the two thermometers should 



VENTILATION. 



101 



be noted, and the relative humidity of the air calculated 
from the following tables (Newsholme). 



Beading of 
dry bulb. 


Reading of 
wet bulb. 


Eelative 
humidity. 


56 


51-8 


75 




50-8 


70 




49-8 


65 




48-7 


60 




477 


55 




46-1 


50 


67 


527 


75 




51-7 


70 




50-3 


65 




49-6 


60 




48-6 


55 




47-7 


50 


68 


53-7 


75 




52-7 


70 




51-6 


65 




50-6 


60 




49-5 


55 




48-2 


50 


59 


54-7 


75 




53-7 


70 




52-2 


65 




51-5 


- 60 




50-5 


55 




48-9 


50 


60 


55-7 


75 




54-6 


70 




53-6 


65 




52-5 


60 




51-4 


55 




49-8 


50 



If the relative humidity is never to fall below 55 per 
cent, the wet bulb must not differ from the dry bulb by 
more than 9 F. 



102 VENTILATION. 

An examination of the table on p. 98 shows that by 
raising the temperature of air by about 19? F. its capacity 
to absorb moisture is doubled, i.e. its relative humidity is 
halved. This is an effect that is frequently produced in 
schools without any attempt to remedy the evil. Hot dry 
air causes rapid evaporation from the skin and makes it 
dry and rough. It also probably has an injurious effect 
upon the mucous membrane of the throat and pharynx 
and may lead to or aggravate catarrh. If the children 
lived in the dry air altogether the ill effects would not be 
so obvious or would disappear, but the fact that they are 
exposed every day to three very different degrees of 
humidity and temperature is certain to have a bad effect 
upon the mucous membrane of the throat and, possibly, 
the bronchi. The three degrees of humidity exist respec- 
tively in the home, the outside air, and the school. The 
average humidity of the air in this country is about 75 per 
cent. ; in winter it is often 80 per cent, or more. In the 
school it is a matter of common experience to find the 
humidity as low as 25 per cent. This excessive dryness of the 
air not only produces the injurious effects described above, 
but also may actually cause chills by the rapid evaporation 
from the skin that takes place in it, particularly when the 
body is exposed to a current of such air. A humidity of 
50 per cent, should be regarded as the minimum. On the 
other hand too great a humidity is enervating and depress- 
ing, so that a humidity above 65 per cent, is undesirable. 
It is important to bear in mind that the question of supply- 
ing sufficient moisture is most important in those schools 
where ventilation is most thoroughly carried out. In badly 
ventilated schools the air is laden with moisture produced 
by respiration. 



VENTILATION. 103 

The Supply of Moisture. 

In those buildings which are heated by radiators or hot 
pipes the most satisfactory plan is to place porous clay 
vessels upon the radiators or pipes. The vessels should 
cover the top of the radiator entirely ; and it should be the 
duty of someone to see that they always contain water. 

Hot-air furnaces are often provided with a vessel for 
water, the evaporation from which is supposed to increase 
the humidity of the air sufficiently. As a rule, however, 
such means are found to be totally insufficient for the 
purpose, and are only likely to work well when the vessel 
is very large and is kept filled by some automatic arrange- 
ment. 

An escape of steam from the radiator is occasionally 
adopted, but unfortunately it produces a limited area of 
excessive dampness. 

The adoption of porous vessels seems to give the most 
satisfactory results, as the number can be increased or 
decreased until the wet and dry bulb hygrometer indicates 
a humidity between 50 and 65 per cent. 



CHAPTER VI. 



SANITAEY APPLIANCES. 

Water Supply. 

The bountiful supply of pure water is now a popular 
demand and, in most districts in this country, it is met. 
The school, in all urban districts, must share the general 
water supply, but in rural districts it may be necessary to 
arrange for its own water supply either by the sinking of a 
well, or by providing for the collection and storage of rain- 
water. In all cases the supply should be carefully ex- 
amined. If it comes from shallow wells or springs there 
should be no suspicion of pollution by drains or cesspools. 
After the vacations such wells should be inspected, and the 
water pumped out just before the opening of the schools. 
It is advisable for all country schools to possess a private 
deep or "Artesian" well, because shallow wells are so 
liable to pollution. 

If the water supplied is not altogether satisfactory it 
should be filtered. The only satisfactory filters are the 
Berkfeld and the Pasteur-Chamberland varieties. 

Where it is necessary to store water that is to be used 
for drinking purposes a separate cistern must always be 
used for this purpose, and such cistern should have no 
connection with the water-closet. 

A plentiful supply of pure drinking water must always 
be accessible in schools and playgrounds. Children require 
a frequent drink of water, and their health suffers if such 

104 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 105 

is not available. In playgrounds a drinking fountain is 
best. These are so constructed that a small steady stream 
issues from an upright pipe for about three inches. The 
scholar drinks by receiving this stream in his mouth. Any 
form of continuous fountain is superior to the use of 
drinking cups in common, which are often the means of 
spreading such diseases as diphtheria. In country schools 
where there is no public water supply such fountains are 
impossible, and a tank or keg must be provided, from 
which the water may be drawn by a tap. 

Cisterns. 

In those cases where cisterns are necessary they must 
fulfil the following conditions : 

1 . Material. The best material is either galvanised iron 
or slate with cement joints. Neither of these impart any 
injurious quality to the water. Lead cisterns are durable 
but dangerous, owing to metallic contamination. 

2. Position. A cistern should be shielded from the sun's 
rays, but must be in an easily accessible position, so that 
it is readily inspected and cleaned. Covering and ventila- 
tion should be provided. 

3. Fittings. The overflow pipe must be carried through 
the nearest outside wall, where it should be cut short. It 
must on no account communicate with any drain or soil 
pipe. The supply pipe for the water-closet must not pass 
direct from the cistern, a smaller cistern for this purpose 
being necessary. 

School Drains. 

The drains for schools do not differ essentially from 
those of any large building for public or residential pur- 
poses. Before any pipes are laid the whole system of 
drainage should be mapped out from beginning to end. 



106 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



The whole length of the trenches should be dug and covered 
with concrete to a depth of four inches. Earthenware pipes 
should be used ; they should be well glazed and free from 
flaws or cracks. Six-inch pipes, laid with a fall of 1 in 60 are 




Fig. 43. 

INSPECTION CHAMBER. 

A, Bain-water; B, Butler's pantry ; C, Housemaid's closet; D and E, Soil pipes 
from water-closet ; F, Waste water from bath ; G, Waste from kitchen sink ; H, 
Bain-water pipe. The pipes at exposed part are half cylinders only. N.B. 
Letters only refer to proposed positions, which may be varied according to plans 

usually the best for ordinary use, but some of the branches, 
leading from single water-closets or gullies, may be made 
with four-inch pipes and have a fall of 1 in 40. All drains 
should be laid as straight as possible. If it is necessary 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 107 

to alter the direction of the drain a proper bent pipe should 
be used. Branches should join the main drain at acute 
angles and by means of junction pipes. Old-fashioned 
drains nearly always effect a junction as quickly as possible, 
so that these points of union are scattered about and are 
difficult to locate. The modern plan is to make all junc- 
tions as near together as possible, at some convenient spot, 
where an inspection chamber is built. This is a small 
chamber built of brickwork set in cement. The drain and 
its tributaries meet in this chamber, being continued along 
the floor in the form of half -pipes set in concrete. A man 
entering the inspection chamber will therefore be able to 
tell at a glance whether there is any deposit at the junction. 
The chamber itself is easily cleared and rods can be passed 
up the different branches. 

Joints. 

Particular attention should be given to making good 
joints. The usual method is to soak a piece of yarn 
in some fluid cement, and to ram this well into the joint 
all round so as to about half fill it. The joint should then 
be filled up with stiff cement. Only the best Portland 
cement should be used. 

Traps. 
A trap is a contrivance which is placed in the course 




Fig. 44. 

SIMPLE BEND. 



of pipes and drains with a view to prevent the passage 
of sewer air into a building. The only traps admissible 



108 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



are the various forms of siphon traps. Figures 44 and 45 
show the simplest form of such traps. Buchanan's 
disconnecting and ventilating trap is used to disconnect 



INSPECTION 
OPENING 




Fig. 45. 

the drain from the sewer. It may be used alone, but more 
often a modification of it is adapted to use with an inspec- 
tion chamber. A convenient trap for 
use with sinks or lavatory basins is 
shown in Fig. 46. It is fitted with 
a movable screw plug which is useful 
for removing any solid matter that 
may be stopping the j>ipe. The various 
forms of water-closets depend upon 
siphon traps to prevent the passage 
of gas from the soil pipe and drain 
into the building. 




Fig. 46. 

TRAP FOR SINK WASTK 
PIPES. 



Ventilation of Drain. 

The soil pipe (if water-closets are placed in part of the 
school building) or a special ventilating pipe (if there are 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 109 

only closets on the ground level and away from the build- 
ing) acts as the chief ventilator 011 the near end of the 
drain. It acts usually as an outlet. The grating over the 
inspection chamber, or a short ventilating pipe attached to 
a disconnecting and ventilating trap, is the ventilator at the 
far end of the drain, and this is usually the inlet. If the 
drain is well and evenly laid, and these two ventilators are 
properly fixed and remain open, there should never be any 
foul gases in the drain, and no bad smell ought to be 
observable near either of the ventilators. 

Testing Drains. 

Before the trenches are filled in, the drains must be 
carefully tested. Each opening in the inspection chamber 
should be plugged and the different branches of the drain 
separately filled up with water. If the water remains at 
the same level for an hour the drain is satisfactory. If 
the level falls an examination of the joints will reveal the 
faulty place. 

Lavatories. 



There should be ample lavatory accommodation in all 
schools. One lavatory basin to twenty scholars should be 
regarded as a minimum, and one to ten scholars is desirable. 
How is it possible to properly teach and encourage habits 
of cleanliness in children when schools are so often pro- 
vided with a dark, dirty, and bad- smelling room called the 
lavatory, into which the children are rarely permitted to 
enter ? The basin should be of hard, durable material, and 
the simplest means of outlet, an opening filled by a mov- 
able plug, is the best. The waste pipe and overflow pipe 
must be arranged as shown in the figure. The waste pipe 
must not communicate with any soil pipe, drain, or sewer, 
but must pass as quickly as possible through the outside 



110 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



wall and immediately discharge upon a slanting surface 
sloping dowii to a gully trap, if the lavatory is on the 




Fig. 47. 
LAVATORY BASIN. 




Fig. 48. 

Row OF LAYATORY BASINS. (For sake of clearness the antisiphonage pipes are 
omitted.) 

ground floor, or into the open end of a vertical pipe which 
discharges on such a sloping surface, if the lavatory is on 
one of the upper floors. 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. Ill 

In school lavatories the best arrangement is to place 
rows of basins round three sides of a room. The three 
rows of basins should be separately connected, i.e. there 
should be a separate waste pipe for each row. Each waste 
pipe should be trapped, and each trap provided with an 
air pipe to prevent siphoiiage. If these air pipes are not 
supplied the discharge of the end basin will suck out the 
water from the traps of those basins nearer the outlet, 
leaving an open pipe. 

Baths. 

The consideration of the subject of baths may seem to 
some to be superfluous in considering the needs of day 
schools. Few people, especially those who serve on educa- 
tion committees, appear to realise what has already been 
done in the direction of providing swimming baths for the 
purpose of physical exercise and health, and warm baths 
in pans or warm shower baths for producing cleanliness 
and also for educating the children in bodily cleanliness. 
There are swimming baths in connection with schools at 
Edinburgh and Grovan in Scotland, the latter tank measur- 
ing 27 X 59 feet, and the depth varying from about 5 feet 
to a little over 3 feet. The temperature of the water is kept 
at about 70 F, Shower baths and soap must be provided 
in the same building, so that persons whose bodies are not 
sufficiently clean can be required to wash themselves 
thoroughly before entering the swimming bath. The cost 
of heating the water during the winter months is a very 
serious item, and for this reason it is not advisable to keep 
the bath in use during the whole year. Its maintenance 
from May to October entails little expense, and, especially 
if the bath is kept open during the summer vacation, it is 
an immense boon to the children of the locality. 

At G-iessen the school bathing facilities consist of eight 



112 SANITARY APPLIANCES. 

large zinc pans, five feet in diameter, for eight hundred 
pupils. The children bathe three together, and are allowed 
five minutes for the bath. The most satisfactory form of 
bath, however, is the shower bath, which is rapidly coming 
into use for school purposes. This has very great advan- 
tages over any other kind from every point of view. These 
advantages may be summed up as follows : 

(1) The original cost of the simpler forms is not at all 
excessive. 

(2) It is economical. Only a moderate amount of water 
per head is necessary. 

(3) The risk of contagion from one child to another is 
entirely removed, because the water that has touched a 
bather runs off at once down the waste pipe. 

(4) No time is wasted. There is no filling and emptying. 
Immediately one child has finished another can commence. 

(5) This form of bath is found to possess a great attrac- 
tion for children. 

In Berlin there are many schools fitted with shower 
baths. The temperature of the water at the commence- 
ment of a shower is 113 F., and it gradually cools down to 
about 86 F. In Boston, school baths have now been pro- 
vided for the past 'six or seven years. 

For a school with 800 scholars a set of ten shower baths 
and thirty dressing closets are found to be sufficient. A 
convenient and simple form of bath is that adopted by the 
Boston school. The bath closet is constructed of marble, 
and measures 3 feet by 3J feet and 6 feet high. There is no 
door, but a sliding rubber curtain hangs in front. An iron 
pipe supplies the water and descends vertically about half- 
way down the closet. On this is fixed a rubber tube, with 
a spray at the end, which reaches to the floor of the closet. 
The bather can vary the amount and the direction of the 
water, but the temperature is kept at 90 F. Dressing 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



113 



closets are made slightly smaller than the bath. The 
average cost for both is said to be under twopence, but 
there is no reason why it should not be reduced to about 
one halfpenny per bath. 

The floor of the bath should be of asphalt or lead slop- 
ing towards the waste outlet, which should be on one side 
or at the back. The waste pipes must be treated in the 
same way as has already been described for lavatory 
wastes. 

Closet Accommodation. 

There should be no closets in the school building for the 
scholars. Those provided for teachers should be separated 
from the building by cross ventilated lobbies. Each closet 
must be not less than 2 feet 3 inches wide, nor more than 
3 feet, and must be fully lighted and cross ventilated. 
They are best divided by partitions carried up 6 feet only. 
Doors, if any, should be separated from the threshold by 
at least 4 inches, and from the head by at least 6 inches. 
The number of closets required by the Education Depart- 
ment is given by the following table : 





Number of Closets. 




For Girls. 


For Boys. 


For Infants. 


Under 30 children. 


2 


1 


2 


50 


3 


2 


3 


70 


4 


2 


3 


100 


5 


3 


4 


150 


6 


3 


5 


200 


7 


4 


6 


300 


8 


5 


7 






Urinals in proportion. 



SCH. HYGK 



114 SANITARY APPLIANCES. 

The above numbers should certainly be exceeded where- 
ever possible. The buildings and approaches to them 
must be wholly separate for the two sexes. 

The floor should slope towards the door, and must be 
made of blue bricks set in cement or asphalt, so that it 
will dry rapidly after the daily washing which it must 
receive. 

The walls should be lined with glazed bricks, and all 
corners should be rounded off. 

Kind of Closet. 

Where there is a proper water supply some system of 
water-closets must be provided, but if the public water 
supply is deficient or if there is no public supply, as is 
the case in country districts, the earth-closet should be 
used. 

Earth-Closet. 

The principle upon which this depends is that faecal 
matter, with which dry earth has been mixed, becomes not 
only inoffensive, but after a short time, unrecognisable as 
such. This absorbent and deodorising action of earth is 
dependent upon minute organisms or bacteria which are in 
the soil. These effect the conversion of nitrogenous matter 
into ammoniacal compounds, and these, by processes of 
oxidation are resolved into nitrites and nitrates. The best 
soils for this purpose are moderately dry and loose loams, 
garden soils, dry clay, and brick earth. Sand, gravel, and 
chalk are unsuitable and inefficient. The method of use is 
to cover each stool at once with one and a half pounds of 
dry earth. This is found to be sufficient to remove all 
smell and to form a " compost " which is suitable for 
potting plants, but is by no means a rich or valuable 
manure. When the pail is full its contents may either be 



APPLIANCES. 



115 



applied at once to the garden or removed to a dry shed 
where, after frequent turning over and exposure to the air, 
the earth may be used again as many as eight or ten times. 
Automatic closets, which apply a measured quantity of 
dry earth at each use, are obtainable. One is shown in 
Fig. 49. The handle of the closet is competed with a 



LID 




Fig. 49. 

AVTOMATIC EARTH CI.OSKT. 

receptacle behind and above the seat, which delivers the 
regulated quantity into the pail when it is raised. 

The earth-closet requires the closest attention and the 
most constant supervision if it is tcr be quite free from 
smell. It should never be placed inside a school. The 
personal attention which it requires and the difficulty of 



116 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



disposing of the large bulk of residue should prevent this 
method from ever being adopted in towns. 

It must be remembered that earth-closets require the 
services of a special attendant to remove the soil, provide a 
fresh supply, and to prepare a stock of dry soil in the store- 
house for use during the winter. The head master- should 
inspect them every day and see that things are properly 
attended to. There is a difficulty with children because 
they will play with the hopper they like to see the action. 
This can only be obviated by the supervision of the teachers 
themselves. 

Water-closets. 

For school purposes the most satisfactory closets are the 
short hopper with a flushing rim or a pedestal form of 




Fig. 50. 

PEDKSTAT. (HOPPKR TYPE) WITH FLUSHING RIM. 

wash-down closet. Each closet should have its own 
flushing cistern. It is more usual to provide trough 
closets with automatic flush cisterns, but it should be con- 
sidered a necessary part of a child's education to know how 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



117 



to use, and not abuse, an ordinary water-closet. All joints 
must be tested thoroughly before they are passed, and 
every precaution should be taken to ensure that the work 
is done in a first-rate manner. 

Trough Closets. 

The usual form of water-closet for school purposes 
is the trough closet. If properly looked after they 
are fairly satisfactory, but it is a common experience to 
visit schools where these closets are foul smelling and in a 
disgusting condition. As a matter of fact all closets are 




Fig. 51. 

TROUGH CLOSET. 

liable to become a disgrace to the school unless they are 
personally inspected by the head teacher every day. Such 
inspection should be made in the interests of the school 
and the scholars. An inculcation of maxims connected 
with the observance of decency in these places will have a 
good effect upon the children in every way, and is really 
an important part of their education, and any teacher who 
fails in this duty is neglecting an important branch of the 
child's instruction. 

A form of trough closet is shown in Fig. 51. It is 



118 SANITARY APPLIANCES. 

simply a series of closets with a common flush. The 
trough should be of stoneware, and slopes downwards 
towards the outlet. At the end of the trough its floor 
turns upwards so that there is always a depth of from one 
to four inches of water in it. At the upper end of the 
trough, and four or five feet above it, is an automatic flush 
tank which should be arranged to discharge every six 
hours at least. The frequency of the flush is arranged by 
regulating the tap. Cases are unfortunately common 
where the cistern is discharged once or twice a week. The 
lower end of the trough connects with a siphon trap, the 
opening of which should be protected by bars with inter- 
vals wide enough to allow all ordinary matter to pass, but 
sufficiently close to prevent unsuitable articles being swept 
into the trap and blocking it. 

One disadvantage of the trough closet is that the sides 
of the trough are liable to become foul by splashing and, 
if not periodically cleaned, will give rise to nuisance. The 
noise of the sudden flush is also somewhat alarming if the 
seat happens to be occupied at the time. Even with the 
most careful management it is practically impossible to 
maintain such a standard of cleanliness as can be secured 
where separate closets are employed, and all education 
authorities would be well advised to substitute ordinary 
water-closets for all trough closets in their district. No 
deodorisers should be permitted in closets, as they are merely 
palliative, and serve only to disguise and cover some evil 
which ought to be remedied. If there is any offensive 
smell in the closets there is something wrong either with 
the closets or tfyeir management. 

Soil Pipe. 

Mention has already been made that any water-closets 
;n the schopl must be separated from the jnaiq 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 119 

building by cross ventilated lobbies. In schools of more 
than one storey it is usual and convenient to place such 
water-closets above each other. The soil pipes, or pipes 
which carry the excreta from the water-closet to the 
drain, must be altogether outside the building, and venti- 
lated by being continued, without any bend or alteration 
in diameter, above the eaves. Their termination should 
be protected by a wire cage to prevent their occupation by 
birds' nests. The best material for the soil pipe is drawn- 
lead. If iron pipes are used they must be of the water- 
main type, with caulked lead joints. A diameter of four 
inches is the most satisfactory size. Soil pipes are 
excellent drain ventilators, and there should therefore be 
no trap at the bottom. 

There is always a risk of traps becoming unsealed by 
siphonage : particularly when one closet is immediately 
above another, using the same soil pipe. To avoid this it 
is necessary to fix an air pipe to the top of the siphon 
bend. In single water-closets it is only necessary to carry 
this pipe upwards through the wall to the outside, where it 
may be connected with the soil pipe, but if other closets 
are above, a special ventilating pipe must connect together 
all these air pipes and enter the soil pipe above the level of 
the highest eloset. 

Urinals. 

All surfaces with which the urine comes in contact, must 
be smooth and non- absorbent, the best materials being 
plate-glass, glazed earthenware, and slate. There should 
be either a continuous flow of water over such surfaces or 
an automatic flush of water at very short intervals. Dukes 
recommends a plate-glass trough, nine inches wide and 
six inches deep, kept full of water, and fitted with a self- 
acting outlet, Such urinals are devoid of smell. It is an 



120 SANITARY APPLIANCES. 

unfortunate but obvious fact that, owing to bad construc- 
tion and lack of care, school urinals are often unsanitary 
and offensive in the highest degree. There is 110 excuse 
whatever for such a condition in those districts which have 
a plentiful public water supply. 

Cesspools. 

A cesspool would only be permissible for a school in a 
district with an excellent public water supply, so that 
water-closets are possible, but where there are no public 
sewers. Such districts are very rare. If there is no public 
water supply, or if it is inadequate, earth closets should be 
provided. Also if there are no public sewers the district 
must be somewhat rural, and here again earth closets 
would be the best arrangement. 

If a cesspool system is regarded as indispensable, the 
cesspool must be as far removed from the school and 
playground as possible, be fenced in, properly ventilated, 
and perfectly watertight. It is somewhat beyond the 
scope of this book to give details of the necessary con- 
struction and management. 



NOTE ON FIG. 48, PAGE 110. 

There are many excellent types of school lavatory basins now 
upon the market, the fittings of which differ, in various ways, from 
those shown in the diagram. Space does not permit of these being 
shown, but one of the best type is the " running water " basin, 
which permits the rapid use of the basin by a large number of 
scholars without the same water coming into contact with different 
scholars. 



PART II, 
THE SCHOLAR : 

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND THE LAWS OF HEALTH. 

* 

CHAPTER I. 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 
DESKS. 

THE problem of the desk is still with us, but is, perhaps, 
nearing solution, or at all events proper appreciation. 
Excellent desks are now made which will give fairly 
satisfactory results if the teacher thoroughly grasps the 
principle that the maximum length of time at a stretch 
that a child should remain seated in any form of desk is 
one hour, and that periods of half or three quarters of an 
hour are much to be preferred to the longer period. In 
fact there are few desks that will injure a child if the time 
during which they are occupied is strictly limited. The 
habit, which probably still prevails in some schools, of 
keeping children seated for a whole morning of about three 
hours has undoubtedly been the cause of a great deal of 
deformity and ill-health. Up to the age of fourteen the 
sitting posture should be regarded merely as a conve- 
nience, which is, nevertheless, unhealthy and unnatural for 
children. If this fact is properly appreciated there will 
be universal limitation of sitting-down periods to three- 
quarters of an hour, with intervals of play and of lessons 
given with the children standing upright. The ideal desk 

121 



122 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 



is probably still an unsolved problem, but that is no reason 
why the most elementary and obvious rules concerning 
desks should be systematically ignored by so many 
education authorities even of large and important boroughs 
and districts. A desk should be just as accurately fitted 
for the child as its clothes are, and children require just 
as great a variation in desk sizes as they do in the 
measurements of their garments. A visit to the ordinary 
elementary school shows hundreds of children sitting in 
desks which are obviously unsuitable for them, and which 
cause them to bend their spines to the left, as well as to 
stoop forward with chest contracted, heart and lungs com- 
pressed, and cramped abdominal viscera. 

It is necessary to remember that children of the same 
age and in the same standard at school vary greatly in 
height, a fact that is obviously unappreciated by the 
Board of Education, because the Eules for Elementary 
schools say " seats and desks should be graduated 
according to ages" Some interesting figures have been 
obtained by Bowditch as illustrating this important fact: 



Age. 


Sex. 


Height. 


Difference. 


6 years 


Boys 


From to 
40... 47 inches 


6J inches 




Girls 


40i..47i 


7 


11 


Boys 


49i...57J 


8 




Girls 


49J...58 


8J ., 


15 


Boys 


56J...68 


iij- 




Girls 


57i..65 


74 

2 



Another important point is the variation in the rate of 
growth at different ages, Girls grow most rapidly between 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 123 

twelve and fourteen years of age, while boys grow most 
from fourteen to sixteen. Still another matter to be 
allowed for is the greater "sitting height" of girls com- 
pared with boys of the same total stature. A very small 
amount of thought, therefore, should convince anyone that 
desks must be adjusted to the children, and that to order 
a roomful of desks all the same size for each standard 
is just as ridiculous, and far more harmful than to order 
the same sized clothes for all these children. It is by no 
means common, in towns that pride themselves in being 
quite up-to-date, to find children who vary a foot in height 
sitting in desks of exactly the same size. 

If the desk is of suitable size and structure it will allow 
the child to sit in accordance with the following con- 
ditions : 

1. The two ischial tuberosities rest equally on the seat. 

2. The body is erect, and the back supported. 

3. The head is in such a position that a line joining the 
centres of gravity of the head and the body bisects the line 
between the two ischial tuberosities. 

4. The thighs are horizontal, the legs vertical, and the 
feet rest flat on the floor. 

In this position there is the greatest possible economy 
of energy because the body is symmetrical and equally 
balanced. With the body so placed the eyes most easily 
look forwards and downwards. To raise them in order to 
look horizontally forward requires an effort. The least 
possible work will be given the eyes if the reading matter 
rests on a desk at an angle of 45 with the horizon, because 
in this position the bottom of the page will be at the same 
distance from the eye as the upper part, and the eye will 
be able to read all the type thereon without changing its 
focus to any appreciable extent. 

writing, however, a desk top at an angle of 45 



124 SCHOOL FITTINGS. 

would have serious disadvantages. For instance, the ink 
would not flow properly from the pen at this angle, and 
moreover the arms and hands would have to be held in an 
irksome and tiring position. The most convenient slant 
for the writing-desk is an angle of 15 with the horizontal. 
The only objection to such a slope is that the lower part of 
the page will be nearer the eye than the upper portion. 
The surface of the desk must be adjusted to such a height 
that the forearms may be easily placed upon it by moving 
the elbows three or four inches away from the sides. 

VARIETIES OF DESKS. 

In describing desks there are certain terms applied to 
different measurements. 

1. The vertical distance from the edge of the desk to the 
level of the seat is called the " difference." This measure 
ment should be such as to bring the edge of the desk 





ZERO DESK PLUS DESK MINUS DESK 

Fig. 52. 
RELATION OF SEAT TO DESK. 

opposite the navel of the pupil. The child will then be 
able to place the arms on the desk by moving the elbows 
slightly away from the sides. 

2. The measurement from the edge of the seat to the 
vertical line dropped from the edge of the desk is called 
the " distance." This classifies desks into three varieties : 
(1) The " plus " desk, i.e. where there is a space between the 
edge of the seat and the vertical line from the desk. (2) The 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 125 

' zero " desk, i.e. where the edge of the seat touches the 
vertical line from the desk. (3) The " minus " desk, i.e. 
where the vertical from the desk passes through the seat. 

For writing the desk which involves the least deviation 
from the ideal position described above is the minus one. 
Nevertheless it is exceedingly common to find large schools 
without a single minus desk. The common desk is the plus 
variety, the use of which causes various ill effects : (a) The 
head and body are thrown forward so that the thorax, 




Fig. 53. 

COMMON POSITION FOR "WHITING IN A PJATS DESK. 

lungs, heart, and abdominal viscera are pressed upon and 
cramped. (6) The abdominal wall is folded and the viscera 
pressed out of place, thereby interfering with the functions 
of the different organs, (c) The vertical line from the centre 
of gravity of the body falls in front of the line joining the 
ischial tuberosities. This causes part of the weight of 
the body to be borne by the part of the thigh resting on 
the anterior edge of the seat, and some also by the elbows 
on the desk, (d) The effort of holding the head and body 



126 SOttOOt FITTINGS. 

in this position is a waste of energy, there being no balance. 
The muscles of the neck tire, and the head droops down. 
Fatigue is thus rapidly brought on. (e) The bending for- 
ward of the head brings the object nearer than twelve inches 
from the eyes, as well as causing congestion round those 
organs. If the desk is too low for the child the above 
effects are intensified. 




Fig. 54. 

DESK AND SKAT ARRANGED IN MINUS POSITION. 

The minus desk is undoubtedly the best for school use, 
but will only give satisfactory results if each child has the 
right size of desk for its requirements. The amount to 
which the desk overlaps the seat must be adjusted so that 
the edge of the desk just touches the child's abdomen 
without pressing upon it. If a fixed minus desk is used it 
is apt to become somewhat tiring owing to the shut in 
sensation it imparts and the absence of free movements. 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 127 

Standing up is also irksome. Many of these desks have, 
therefore, been devised with the middle hinged, in order 
that the lower part may be lifted up and folded back 
on itself, so that the under surface is now turned up at 
an angle of 45 and presents the ideal desk for reading. 
In this position it is a plus or zero desk, and the reading 
matter is a little over twelve inches from the eyes of the 
pupil. Sometimes the seats are made to turn vertical in 
order to allow the child to stand. This plan, however, 
involves the use of the same shaped desk for reading and 
writing. As an alternative to the jointed desk-top there 
is the desk with a sliding top. In its ordinary position it is 
a plus or zero desk, but the top will slide down towards 
the child and so become one of the minus variety. It is 
undoubtedly desirable that a desk should be adjustable 
for plus and minus distances. A small plus distance gives 
a child more freedom of movement, and enables him to 
rise from the desk and to sit down with much greater ease. 

DESK ADJUSTMENT. 

In almost all schools, from the highest to the humblest, 
the bodies of scholars have to accommodate themselves 
to fixed seats and benches. The evil results of such 
a system appear later in the form of eye and spinal 
trouble, as well as consumption. Not only is it most 
harmful in the case of young children, but the injury and 
inconvenience is also very pronounced in the case of 
youths and young men and women who attend technical 
and evening classes held in elementary school buildings. 
This aspect of the case is often ignored, and the writer 
well remembers one instance where, after protests had 
been received on behalf of such adult students, members 
of the local education authority denounced the " luxurious 



128 



SCHOOL FITTINGS, 



tendency " of the present race of students. Real progress 
must necessarily be slow in the face of gross ignorance and 
petty economy. 

Most of the adjustable desks at present on the market 
possess merely a vertical movement, and the height is 
laboriously altered and fixed by means of a key, a screw, 
or a pinion. These methods have the serious defects that 
they are not easily adjustable and also are very liable to 
injure the hands and fingers of those who attempt to 
manipulate them. Adjustable desks of better and more 
convenient patterns are now being produced. 

It should be distinctly understood that for day schools 
an adjustable desk will no longer be a necessity when the 
time-tables are under the control of medical men who have 
made a special study of hygiene as applied to child life. 
With three sizes of desks and seats for the ordinary 
standards it is possible to fit 95 per cent, of ordinary 
children sufficiently exactly to produce 110 ill effects if 
the children are kept seated in them for short periods 
only. But if the present system is maintained, then the 
adjustable desk is a necessity. Mr. Priestley Smith 
considers that four sizes of desks are desirable, and gives 
the following scale : 



Height of 
Scholar. 


Height of 
seat 
from floor. 


Width of 
seat. 


Height of desk 
and back from 
seat. 


3 J to 4 feet 


13 ins. 


10 ins. 


8 ins. 


4 4| 


14*,, 


11 


8f,, 


4% 5 


16 


12 


9J,, 


5 5J 


18 


13 


10|,, 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 129 

The old-fashioned private school inflicted far less 
physical injury upon the children than the public 
elementary school of to-day. In such schools at least 
half the children stood while receiving instruction, and, 
chiefly owing probably to a deficiency of desk accommoda- 
tion, the period of each child's occupation of a desk was 
brief. It cannot be too often repeated that the possibility 
of injury resulting from the use of any desk is very 
remote if the time of occupation is made short. 

Under present conditions each desk must be accurately 
adjusted to the needs of the child who has to use it. This 
being the case, it is indispensable that every desk and every 
seat should be adjustable. The desk seat must be of such 
a height that the thigh of the pupil is exactly horizontal 
when the leg is vertical and the foot resting flat on the 
floor. In such a position, obviously, the knee is bent at a 
right angle. In order to obtain such conditions for every 
child it is necessary that the seat should be adjustable to 
quarter inches. The front edge of the seat must be 
rounded off in order to prevent pressure upon the blood 
vessels and nerves of the thigh. For additional comfort 
and also in order to counteract the tendency to slide 
forward, the seat should be hollowed out to a depth of 
about inch, the concavity commencing 1J inch from the 
front edge of the seat, and deepest where the ischial 
tuberosities rest. The width of the seat should be at least 
two-thirds of the length of the child's thigh. 

Each seat should be provided with a proper back, 
presenting a concave surface forward, and extending 
sufficiently far up the back to afford support to the lower 
parts of the shoulder blades. 

Each child is measured carefully r so that the seat may 
be adjusted accurately to its requirements. The knee is 
bent at a right angle, while the foot rests squarely on the 

SCH. HYGK 9 



130 SCHOOL FITTINGS. 

floor, and the distance from the floor to the under side 01 
the thigh near the knee is measured. This measurement 
is best made with special measuring rods for that purpose. 
These consist of a vertical scale with a sliding horizontal 
arm which is raised until it touches the under surface of 
the thigh. 

Foot-rests are unnecessary and undesirable. By pre- 
venting free movement of the feet and legs they tend to 
increase the liability to cramp and stiffness. Another 
objectionable feature is that they prevent thorough 
cleaning of the floor. 

The desk tops must be adjusted so that the child, 
when in the position for writing, does not bend the spine 
or have the shoulders raised. The edge of the desk should 
touch the navel, and the forearms should rest easily on the 
top without moving the elbows more than three or four 
inches from the sides. 

It is desirable that all desks should be adjusted 
carefully twice a year, and the best times are March and 
September. No desk that can only be adjusted with 
difficulty should be allowed. 

Single or Multiple Desks. 

The Board of Education in the Rules for Elementary 
Schools distinctly discourage single desks, apparently on 
the ground of expense. According to these rules desks 
12 feet long are permitted, and eight children (and even 
nine infants) are allowed to be packed on such a desk. 
Surely such rules must have been framed by people who 
have no knowledge whatever of the simplest hygienic 
principles. Under such circumstances it is no wonder 
that occasionally schools serve as hot-beds of infectious 
diseases, and that as a general rule most children are free 
from disease until they begin to attend school, Even 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 131 

dual desks should be discouraged, not only on account of 
the increased possibilities of the spread of infection that 
they bring about, but also as tending to produce contorted 
attitudes. Entirely separate desks are undoubtedly the 
best, but if economy must be studied the Sheffield system 
should be adopted. These are long desks (without seats 
attached) of half a dozen places and are used with separate 
pedestal chairs. The advantages claimed for such an 
arrangement are : 

1. That the seats are isolated. 

2. Each child is accessible. 

3. Each child can stand up in its place, and drill can 
be taken for a minute or two with the children in their 
places. 

4. The rooms cannot be overcrowded. 

5. The cleaning operations are very much simplified. 
Such an arrangement demands about 1,000 square inches 
of floor space per seat. 

Infants. 

For the young children the most suitable plan is to 
have flat tables or desks, and it is undoubtedly an advan- 
tage to provide sufficient of these to accommodate half 
the children only, so that the other half are compelled to 
stand. Those standing may do blackboard or other work, 
and take turn and turn about with those seated. For 
children under six years no desks should be provided at 
all ; the babies should play about on the floor, or stools 
could be provided that they could move about themselves. 
It is very interesting to note that these babies are allowed 
for recreation a quarter of an hour in the morning and 
ten minutes in the afternoon. Is it to be wondered at 
that consumption continues to be such a dreadful scourge 
among young adults who have passed through the ordeal 



132 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 



of such an " education," or that the subject of physical 
degeneration of the race is assuming a most serious 
aspect? 

ARRANGEMENT OF DESKS. 

The desks should be arranged in the lightest part of the 
room, i.e. near the windows. It is advisable to arrange 
the desks so that the scholars face the long way of the 



a a a 

a a a 
ana 

a a a 

a a a 

a a a 

a a a 



a a a 

a a a 

a a a 

a a a 

a a a 

a a a 

a a a 

a a a 



Fig. 55. 

DESKS ARRANGED IN CLASS-ROOM. 



room, in order to avoid as far as possible a foreshortened 
view of any apparatus shown them, or maps or diagrams 
on the blackboard. The typical class-room mentioned 
earlier in the book measured 25 x 30 feet. Such a room 
should accommodate 40 scholars only, whether the school 
be an elementary or a secondary one. The gangways 
mentioned in the Board of Education Regulations are 
16 inches between dual desks, and 18 inches between 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 133 

multiple desks. Single desks with gangways of 15 or 16 
inches should be introduced into every school. 

BLACKBOARDS. 

The slate blackboard should be preferred to all other 
kinds because it can be washed without injury. The slate 
should be of a green or black colour. All teachers should 
remember that the inhalation of chalk dust is most in- 
jurious and may tend to predispose to consumption. For 
this reason it is advisable to always use a slightly damp 
duster. After a few trials it will be quite easy to obtain 
just that degree of dampness of the duster that will suffice 
to prevent the wafting of any chalk dust in the air, and 
yet will not appreciably wet the surface of the blackboard. 

Blackboards should be all round the available walls of 
the room. There cannot be too much blackboard in any 
class-room. One of the best methods of preventing or 
affording relief from cramp and fatigue is to send scholars 
in batches to the blackboard to write various exercises. 
The width of the board should be 4 feet, and the height 
from the floor varied from 26 inches to 36 inches according 
to the size of the children who are to use the room. An 
excellent plan is to provide a trough about 2 to 3 inches wide 
at the bottom of the board and covered with an open wire 
cover. Most of the dust will fall into this trough and can 
be periodically removed. 

Teachers' Platforms. 

A platform for the teacher's desk and chair is un- 
doubtedly a great convenience, especially to teachers of 
small stature. They are, however, unsanitary, because 
dust and dirt collect all round and beneath them. They 
also seriously interfere with the free movement of pupils 
about the room and at the blackboards. 



134 SCHOOL FITTINGS. 

SCHOOL CLEANING. 

I. Desks. 

It should be clearly understood that desks and seats 
accumulate grease and dirt rapidly, and that regular 
cleaning is necessary if it is desired that they should not 
become dangerous to health. Every desk and seat should 
be cleaned thoroughly with paraffin oil during each of the 
three vacations. 

II. Windows. 

Dirty windows not only decrease the amount of light 
that can enter the room, but also tend to render useless 
and ridiculous any instruction given by the teacher upon 
general cleanliness. It cannot be too often repeated that 
the teaching of hygiene will never produce much real 
effect upon the mass of the children until the schools 
themselves are object-lessons on this subject. 

III. Walls. 

The walls, which should be painted, must be thoroughly 
washed down during each of the three vacations, and it 
may be necessary to wipe them over more frequently as 
high as the scholars can reach, There should be no ledges 
or projections where dust can lodge, but if there are they 
should be carefully cleaned at the three thorough cleanings 
each year. 

IV. Floors. 

Every floor should be thoroughly swept at the close of 
each day that the school is occupied. Such cleaning is best 
carried out with all doors and windows widely open. The 
floors should be first liberally sprinkled with wet sawdust, 
and a wet broom should always be used. In many schools* 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 135 

no such care is taken to prevent the dust rising in the air, 
and where sawdust is used the quantity supplied is quite 
inadequate. A visit to such schools at the time when the 
daily " cleaning " is finished will reveal an atmosphere like 
a fog. Such conditions are injurious to the sweepers, and 
the dust so scattered in the air settles down on floors, 
desks, shelves, Avails, etc., and adds to the general dirtiness 
and unhealthiness of the school. In fact it would pro- 
bably be better to clean it thoroughly once a week than to 
go through such a farce as is usually represented by the 
daily " cleaning." Dust should be regarded as a most 
potent cause of ill health, and every effort should be made 
to prevent a dusty atmosphere in schools. 



CHAPTER II. 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 
POSTUEES. 

BAD positions in writing, drawing, reading, and standing, 
or sitting on a simple form, are prominent causes of 
deformity. Twisted spinal columns, malformations in 
chest, injured eyes, stooping habits, and shuffling gait, 




Fig. 56. 

with many kinds of bodily ailments, follow a want of 
knowledge upon these subjects. Fig. 56 illustrates a kind 
of injurious position which is very common. 

136 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 137 

The division of postures into four chief classes is conve- 
nient, namely the respective positions for reading, writing, 
receiving instruction, and standing. They might also be 
divided into (1) correct postures, (2) those caused by bad 
desks, and (3) those which are simply due to lack of train- 
ing and proper and intelligent supervision, such as the 
injurious postures assumed by children owing to inactivity 
from long confinement. 



1. FOR RECEIVING INSTRUCTION. 

The ideal sitting posture is the one in which the pupil's 
body is symmetrically placed and which economises mus- 




Fig. 57. 

CORRECT POSITION. VERT TIRING IF NO SUPPORT TO THE BACK. 

cular effort. In such a position the pelvis rests equally 
on the seat of the desk, the spinal column is erect and 



138 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

shows clearly its normal four curves, the head is so poised 
as to afford relief to the muscles in front and at the back 
of the neck, the arms balance, and the hands rest upon the 
thighs, which are horizontal. It is best described as a 
position of balance, in which the force of gravity largely 
replaces muscular exertion. It is not one which oan be 
maintained, however, for longer periods than a few minutes 
unless some support is given to the back and the support 
to the feet is at the correct level, which is an indirect way 







Fig. 58. 
POSITION INVOLVING TWIST OF SPINS. 



of saying that the height of the seat must be accurately 
adjusted to the physical needs of each and every scholar. 

Positions causing any twist of the spinal column, such as 
is illustrated in Fig. 58, are very injurious. Here the verte- 
bral column is twisted through 45, the effect of which is 
to overstretch some of the ligaments connecting the verte- 
brae, as well as to put undue pressure and strain upon 
gome of the bony parts. 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 139 

2. FOE READING. 

Faulty positions for reading are potent causes of short 
sight. Children are allowed and encouraged to read small 
print at far too early an age, the result being that the eye 
becomes* strained and permanently injured. The greatest 
possible care and attention is necessary in order to prevent 
modern educational methods from producing such disastrous 
results. Beading and writing are liable to be exceedingly 




Fig. 59. 



Fig. 60. 



injurious to children under ten. Short sight is rare among 
people who have not received the present-day " book educa- 
tion," but have been reared among healthy surroundings 
and have spent a large proportion of their life out of doors. 
On the other hand the studious individual, and one who 
has won distinctions at school and college, usually is com- 
pelled to rely upon spectacles in order to obtain normal 
vision. A great deal of this injury received during early 
education is preventable and should be prevented, but it 



140 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES 

will probably continue to exist as long as a university 
degree or diploma is considered of greater importance to a 
teacher than a thorough grasp of anatomy, physiology, and 
hygiene so far as they apply to school life. Such knowledge 
is of vital importance, and yet it is only acquired by an odd 
teacher here and there who makes this subject his or her 
hobby. 

It is an undoubted fact that modern life makes great 
demands upon our eyes, so that it is a national duty to 
protect the eyes from damage during the early years. The 
eyes of a child readily give way under sl^rain, and permanent 
injury is easily produced. It is nothing short of criminal 
to set a class of children any task that imposes strain on 
their eyes, and it should be one of the first duties of a 
teacher to protect his or her scholars from this kind of 
physical deterioration. Instead of this, it may be said 
without any exaggeration that school life impairs the eye- 
sight of more than fifty per cent, of the scholars. 

When reading the pupil must sit erect, and the eyes 
must be at least 12 inches away from the book. When it 
is held nearer the eyes than this short sight or myopia is 
likely to be produced. For easy reading the printed 
matter should be held at an angle of 45 to the horizontal, 
and not too much below the level of the eyes, if the head 
is to be kept comfortably in a good posture. The eyes 
become fatigued much sooner if they are directed upwards 
or horizontally. 

A position often assumed by children is shown by Fig. 61. 
Here the chest is contracted and respiration becomes shal- 
low. The shoulder-blades are widely separated and, instead 
of lying evenly upon the ribs, their posterior borders are 
thrust outwards. The dorsal curve of the spinal column is 
increased, while the lumbar curve is reversed. An increase 
in the obliquity of the ribs is also produced, resulting in a 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 141 

further reduction in the capacity of the chest. Added to 
this the anterior abdominal wall becomes folded, and the 
contents of the abdomen are unduly pressed upon. The 
greater part of the weight of the head has to be borne by 
the muscles at the back of the neck, and these, in common 
with many of the back muscles, become weakened and 
stretched. A frequent cause of this posture is unduly long 
periods of confinement. 




Fig. 61. 

INJURIOUS POSITION. 

Another position often assumed by children who have 
been kept sitting too long is shown in Fig. 62, where the 
child has slipped forward upon his seat, and nearly the 
whole of the body weight falls upon the sacrum, coccyx, 
and shoulder-blades. It is said that prolonged inactivity 
at the hip joint is the chief factor iu causing a scholar to 
assume this position. Adults are often seen to adopt this 
posture as affording a relief after prolonged sitting. Such 



142 POSTUEES. PIIISICAL EXERCISES. 

a position is undoubtedly injurious for children. With the 
head dropped forward and the chest contracted there can 
only be inefficient breathing. A decrease in the amount of 
oxygen inhaled causes an immediate diminution in the 
vitality and mental activity, so that any position which 
hampers free expansion of the lungs is to be condemned- 
The muscles at the back of the neck become tired and 




Fig. 62. 

INJURIOUS POSITION. 

stretched, and the child acquires a stooping and drooping 
habit. The proper shape of the body is further distorted 
by the reversal of the cervical and lumbar curves of the 
spine, thereby reducing the four natural curves to one long 
one. This again causes undue stretching of ligaments and 
muscles. 

The flattened chest, contracted shoulder girdle, and 
stooping head are constantly seen in practically every 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 143 

school. Such postures cause short sight, interfere with 
respiration and general thoracic development, and throw 
unnecessary labour upon the heart. The abdominal organs 
are compressed and forced into unnatural positions, and 
the production of round shoulders, curved spine, and 
drooping head is also the effect of such postures. 

3. FOR WRITING. 

Bad positions for writing are universal still and are the 
common causes of spinal curvature. The curve thus pro- 
duced has its convexity to the right, and is produced 
largely by the fact that the right arm and hand are 
supported by the desk, while the left arm hangs idle and 
unsupported. 

It is not yet clearly understood that writing is a severe 
trial to a child. It is easy for a teacher to set a copy and 
to tell children to imitate it, but he or she is apt to forget 
that writing is an act which involves a complicated 
coordination of muscular movement. The child is not yet 
able to use a few muscles at a time his tendency is to use 
groups of muscles together but writing involves the use 
of a few muscles from several groups. The result is that 
he finds the labour involved is painful and very tiring : 
he uses more muscles than are necessary, and, in order to 
balance the undesired effect of the unnecessary ones, he 
brings into use still more of them. The effect of this is to 
produce an unnatural strain and rigidity of most . of the 
muscles, especially those in the hand and arm, followed by 
a desire to constantly alter the posture of the body in the 
vain effort to release the tension and fatigue so produced 
Writing is an extremely complicated and special act. It 
not only involves careful control over those muscles which 
are required for such fine and exact movements, but also 
inhibition of many muscles which, for other actions, are 



144 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

accustomed to act in unison with them. This fact should 
be properly appreciated by all teachers. Many of the 
injurious postures assumed by children while writing are 
the direct result of an attempt, on their part, to release the 
tension and fatigue produced by so complicated an act. 




Fig. 63. 

COMMON POSITION FOR WRITING. SPINE CURVKD WITH CONTEXITY TO RIGHT. 

Many of the undesirable results can be prevented by proper 
attention to the following points : 

1. The method of writing for beginners. 

2. The style of writing. 

3. The manner of holding the pen. 

4. The use of the left hand. 

5. The position for writing. 

All these points are so closely connected with the 
subject of posture that it will be best to discuss them 
forthwith. 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXEECISES. 145 

Writing for Beginners. 

Children should practise strokes, curves, and letter 
forms upon a blackboard, using crayons, for the first 
twelve months. Strokes at different angles should first be 
tried, then simple curves, and finally letter forms. The 
child should be allowed to draw the letter as large or as 
small as he desires. Many children succeed best when they 
first write a letter about 6 inches in height, and smaller 
sizes should not be practised until considerable facility 
has been acquired in drawing letters of the chosen size. 
Ultimately letters of 2 inches in height should be written 
by first year scholars. By starting under such conditions 
the child is relieved of part of the strain that is inseparable 
from writing upon paper at a desk. While he is standing 
at the blackboard he is using many more muscles than 
when sitting ; thereby removing a common cause of fatigue. 
Also the movements are coarser and more free, and he can 
move along as he writes. Further relief from strain and 
fatigue is afforded by the more convenient position of a 
blackboard compared with the top of a desk. 

At the end of the first year the scholar may commence 
writing on paper at a desk. Pens and pencils, however, 
should not yet be introduced: it is best to begin with 
black smooth crayon. Writing and drawing with these 
crayons should occupy the second year, or the greater part 
of it. The use of the pencil should be introduced after- 
wards, as this involves the additional strain of fixed 
attention upon a moving point, as well as the production 
of much finer lines. Lastly the pen should be used, but 
coarse pens are best at first. 

No movements of the fingers s-hould be expected or 
allowed for several years. The whole arm in motion should 
produce the necessary shapes, and freedom and ease of 

SCH. HTG. 10 



146 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

movement are the ideals to be aimed at. These, together 
with precision, are sufficient to occupy six or seven years. 

The Style of Writing. 

The choice of the proper style of writing is important 
because the common injurious postures are connected, to 
some extent, with certain fashions of letter formation. It 
is convenient to divide the various scripts into the slanting, 
the intermediate, and the upright or vertical varieties. 

Slanting Style. 

In the slanting writing the letters have a slope of about 
52. In order that a proper view of the line to be followed 
by the writing may be obtained, it is necessary to place the 
paper to the right of the body and in an oblique position, so 
that the top and bottom of the paper are not parallel with 
the top and bottom of the desk. The head is also bent 
towards the left for the same purpose. Another explana- 
tion is that the eye more readily follows vertical strokes 
than slanting ones, and by these mano3uvres the strokes 
which are slanting to the line on the paper are thereby made 
almost vertical to the eye. An additional reason is that by 
the usual method of holding it the fingers would obscure 
the tip of the pen altogether if the paper were placed 
squarely in front of the body. 

The result is that the right shoulder is raised, the spine 
is curved to the left, the eyes are at unequal distances from 
the writing, and there is additional muscular and nervous 
strain caused by the fact that the child is working up hill. 

The Intermediate Style. 

In this script the letters have a slant of 75. From a 
physiological point of view this is a. great advance upon the 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 147 

slanting style, and has met with much favour in business 
circles. Unfortunately it possesses practically all the 
disadvantages, modilied in extent, which have been men- 
tioned in connection with the slanting script. 

The Vertical Style. 

This is the only possible style of writing if the child is 
to sit in a proper position. It has the following charac- 
teristics : 

(a) Vertical down strokes. 
(&) Short loops. 

(c) Round letters. 

(d) It is the only writing possible in a correct 
position. 

In its favour may be urged many points, the chief of 
which are : (1) That it is more legible than the slanting 
style, and so does not strain the eyes so much. (2) 
It is more easily learned by children. When children begin 
to write they usually make vertical strokes, and have to be 
taught, with difficulty, to acquire a slant.' (3) The writing 
point is at equal distances from the two eyes, so that eye 
strain is again relieved. (4) It can be used by the pupil 
sitting squarely in the desk, upright, and with the paper 
parallel with the edges of the top of the desk. 

Holding the Pen. 

The old-fashioned way of holding the pen is shown in 
Pig. 64. If it is held in this manner it is impossible to 
write upon paper set squarely in front of the body, because 
the fingers altogether hide the tip of the pen. The result 
is that the improper conditions already alluded to are 



tosTtiRES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

assumed. Moreover this way of holding the pen is 
difficult for children to acquire, and is very fatiguing, 
partly owing to the fact that in this position the radius 
and the ulna are crossed. 

For vertical writing a considerable amount of individual 
freedom may be allowed the children, but the usual 
position is with the hand resting on its ulnar side, i.e. on 
the little finger and the side of the hand, so that the palm 
of the hand can be seen, while the penholder lies nearly in 




Fig. 64. 

OLD-FASHIONKD WAY OF HOLDING PEN. 



the depression between the index finger and the thumb, and 
points in a direction quite outside the right shoulder. 
When the hand is in this position the radius and ulna lie 
practically parallel, and no muscular effort is required to 
hold them so. The hand moves along on the outer side of 
the little finger, and the ulnar side of the hand. 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 149 

The Left Hand. 

In the ordinary slanting method of writing, with the pen 
held in the old-fashioned way, there is little for the left 
hand to do. The left hand and arm are left practically idle. 
As a result the left hand tends to be drawn towards the 




Fig. 65. 

PROPER WAY OF HOLDING PEN. 
Note position of hands and pose of shoulders. 

side, the head is bent to the left, and a position of 
exaggerated lateral curvature of the spine is assumed. 
Exercises for the left hand often afford great relief to the 
child, especially while in the early stages of learning to 
write. Writing exercises with the left hand will often 



150 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

cause a child to advance much more rapidly with its right- 
hand writing. While writing with the right hand the 
left should hold the paper on the desk. In order to give 
the left hand more active employment while learning to 
write it has been suggested that strips of paper 5 to 6 inches 
wide and 2 to 3 feet long should be used. The left hand is 




Fig. GO. 

GOOD rosiTiox IN ZKKO DKSK. 
Tliis position is tiring because there is no support for the back. 

then constantly employed in moving the paper along so as 
to keep the writing directly in front. 

The Position for Writing. 

The paper should be placed directly in front of the child, 
with its edges parallel to the edges of the desk. It should 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 151 

not exceed 5| inches in width. The pupil sits squarely in 
front ; the forearms placed equally on the desk ; and the 
elbows at equal distances (about a hand's-breadth) from the 
sides. The feet should rest fully on the floor, and the top 
of the desk be drawn to a minus distance of about 3 inches. 
The desk of course must be adapted to the height of the 
child, or it will be impossible for such a position to be 
easily assumed. 

4. FOE STANDING. 

The position for standing should be modified according 
to the length of time that the child is kept in that position. 
For short periods the best position is shown in Fig. 67, 
where the heels are placed slightly apart and opposite each 
other, the weight being equally divided between the two 
legs. The whole body is symmetrically placed. The 
weight should be thrown slightly on the balls of the feet, the 
hips drawn back, the lumbar curve of the vertebral column 
accentuated, the head held well back with the chin drawn 
in, and the chest thrown forward. Unfortunately such an 
ideal position cannot be maintained for long periods, 
because both legs are kept under the same tension and 
both get tired together. In order to obtain muscular relief 
and change, the child often adopts the injurious position 
shown in Fig. 68. For longer periods the best position is 
shown in Figs. 69 and 70. Here the trunk of the body is 
in the same position as in Fig. 67, but one foot is in advance 
of the other. The weight of the body is carried by the 
posterior leg, the knee of which is held rigid, while the 
muscles of the other leg are relaxed and at rest. The 
position is varied from time to time by placing the other 
foot in advance, and bringing the weight of the body upon 
the leg that has been rested. This position should not be 
exaggerated as shown in Fig. 71. 



152 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES, 

General Kules about Postures. 

As a general rule girls are more liable to assume 
injurious postures than boys, and the results are also much 
more serious. Sitting with the knees crossed should not 





Fig. 67. 



Fig. 68. 



POSITION FOR STANDING FOR 
SHORT PERIODS. 



COMMON POSITION ASSUMED BY 
CHILWKKN. 



be allowed, because of possible distortion of the pelvis. The 
practice of carrying a load of books in a satchel propped 
upon one hip is also bad, because it tends to pull down 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 



153 



one shoulder, curve the spine, and injuriously strain the 
pelvis. A common injurious position at home is shown 



in Fig. 72. 




Fig. 69. 

POSITION FOR LONGER STANDING. 
(Side View.) 



Fig. 70. 

POSITION FOR LONGER STANDING. 
(Back View.) 



It is usually necessary only to exercise vigilance over the 
postures assumed while the children are in the school or at 
home. When they are at play, and" free to move when and 
how they like, there is very little likelihood of any injury 



154 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

being produced in this way. The greater the amount of 
time available for games in the open air the better for the 
child. Drill, especially for young children, is not advisable, 




Fig. 71. 



EXAGGERATED POSITION OPTRN ASSUMED BT CHILDRKN, AND LATBIlALt.T CURYINO 
THK SPINE. 



as it rapidly produces a condition of mental and physical 
exhaustion. 

It should always be borne in mind that a child 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 



155 



be injuriously affected if compelled to sit in a desk, how- 
ever well constructed the desk may be, beyond a short 
period. Young children should not be kept sitting for 
longer periods than 20 minutes, and for not more than one 
third of the total school hours. Short periods of sitting 
should be followed by intervals of activity twice as long 
out of the seat. These periods of activity should not be 




Fig. 72. 



Fig. 73. 



occupied by drill in any form, but certainly need not be 
devoted to play. 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

The narrow view of the function of the schoolmaster is 
well exemplified in some schools, by the entire banishment 
of physical exercise from the rota of school-work. We 
send our children to school for the purpose of training 
them for the battle of life, which "they will have to en- 
counter when they reach to man's estate. It is by the 



156 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

equal and continuous development of each and every part 
of the body that this battle will be fought with success, 
and if one part developes at the expense of another, or by 
its more rapid development puts a bar to the progress of 
the others, the subject of it is at disadvantage in his future 
struggles. Many a Cambridge wrangler and Oxford first- 
class man has found this out in after life. He is able to 
solve a problem in differential calculus, to make Latin 
verses, or to read a passage in any of the dead languages 
at sight, but he has not cultivated the talent of common- 
sense, or educated his muscles so that they can enable him 
to leap over some slight impediment in his path. He finds 
himself outstripped in the daily race by men whom he has 
been taught to despise, and who, in return, have a very 
small opinion of him and his mental power. The nerve 
force of thought in his brain has been developed at the 
expense of his motor power, and as the room for growth is 
limited, the latter is dwarfed and imperfect. Life is 
"organisation in action," and the various functional ac- 
tivities of the body must be carried out with normal energy, 
and in a harmonious manner, if they are to be correct in 
their responses to any and every call that may be made 
upon them. Physical exercise is indispensable ; and it is 
quite impossible for the functions of respiration and circu- 
lation to be carried on in a proper manner if the muscular 
system is not developed, or if the material which is neces- 
sary for the formation of the muscle is not used up in its 
proper order. If the muscles are not used equally with 
the brain tissue, some used-up matter is kept back, and 
will sooner or later act as an impediment to proper brain 
work, by getting in the way of the latter when it requires 
all the room which ought to be at its command. The 
assimilative and disarranging processes of the body are 
greatly influenced by the activity or inactivity of the 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 157 

muscular system. Hence it follows that no school is pro- 
perly constituted which does not provide an exercise ground 
for its pupils, and make the cultivation of muscular force 
a part of its daily routine. This is not the place to deal 
with the general effects of exercise, but it will not be out of 
order to call to mind the fact that, the natural heat of the 
body being 98 - 4, it follows that something must be pro- 
duced in the blood which is the debris of the continuous 
fire that is always burning, and by means of which the 
natural heat of the body is kept up to its proper standard. 
There is also another aspect of the case : muscular tissue 
wastes during long-continued rest. Any person may find 
this out for himself if he notes his muscular power before 
and after a few days of enforced confinement in bed ; and 
there is no doubt also of the growth and increased strength 
of muscle by exercise. If any man changes his occupation, 
say from a clerk to a blacksmith, the comparison of power 
in the muscles of his arm at the end of a year will be 
found to efficiently prove this statement ; but if the black- 
smith gives up his anvil and takes to the pen, within a 
year the powerful deltoid muscles which he formerly 
possessed will be dwarfed and comparatively impotent. 
Let a man or a boy have sufficient intervals of rest be- 
tween his times of labour, and whether that labour is 
brain work or muscle work it will tend to increase the 
power of the organ exercised, and the action of the one 
will by its own work clear the blood from the debris which 
has been produced by the work of the other. The more 
powerful minds will therefore be found among those men 
who do not neglect their muscular development; whilst 
the total neglect of mental work, which bodily labour 
sometimes compels the sons of toil to submit to, keeps 
them at a lower level in the scale of humanity than will be 
the case when both systems are allowed a chance by being 



158 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

v/orked alternately, as they ought to be in every well- 
ordered school. We must bear in mind that by exercise 
the individual fibres of a muscle increase in size. The 
contraction of the muscle is one of the means by which 
an ample supply of blood is brought for the nourishment 
of the new tissue. If exercise is not forthcoming,- the 
tissue dwindles and becomes fatty in its character, loses 
its proper elasticity, and does not leave room for new cells 
to take its place, for it is not removed in the way that a 
regularly-exercised muscle is. (Carpenter.) 

There is no doubt whatever that in practically all the 
chief public schools the two extreme types are continually 
met. There are a number of lads who are encouraged to 
devote themselves to games in order to bring the school 
renown in the athletic world. Provided that the lad does 
sufficiently well there are often influences at work on his 
behalf, and instances are not uncommon of those who are 
by no means mentally distinguished being placed in 
positions that should be reserved for those who have at all 
events acquitted themselves creditably in mental contests. 
On the other hand the boys who show unusual brightness 
of intellect are encouraged to undertake excessive mental 
tasks, and are systematically "crammed" in order to 
advertise the school by winning some scholarship. A 
little more attention in both directions might be profitably 
given to the " average " boy. 

The judicious combination of exercise, rest, and sleep 
plays a very important part in the health of the individual. 
Lack of exercise is soon followed by atrophy, or wasting 
away of the parts that are not used. A muscle that is not 
exercised, but lies idle, soon wastes away and becomes 
useless. This is particularly noticeable in the case of a 
broken or paralysed limb. The lack of use soon produces 
wasting and loss of power of the limb. The brain also, 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 159 

when not exercised by study and reading, does not develop 
to its fullest possible extent. Oil the other hand, unless 
the exercise is combined with the proper amount of rest, 
the results are even more disastrous, as the body becomes 
overworked and exhausted. 

Exercise is necessary at all periods of life, but especially 
so during childhood and early manhood or womanhood. 
It is the duty of all parents to see that their children enter 
into the school games, and spend a great deal of time in 
the open air. Practically all schools have now adopted 
physical exercises as part of their curriculum in recognition 
of the importance of these to the children. In the case of 
adults the exercise that should be indulged in must depend 
upon the nature of the daily work. Thus, if a man is 
doing bodily work all day, his muscles have had quite 
sufficient exercise, and mental exercise is what he needs 
for his spare time. On the other hand, those whose occu- 
pation is sedentary, such as clerks, students, etc., need 
physical exercise in their spare time, in order to bring their 
muscular, circulatory, and respiratory systems to the proper 
pitch of development. 

For any beneficial result, the exercise taken must be 
systematic and regular, and not indulged in by fits and 
starts. By gradually and steadily increasing the work 
done by them, a set of muscles may be greatly increased 
in size, but there is a limit to this increase, and if the work 
be carried to excess the muscles will begin to waste away. 
Care should be taken to give every muscle of the body its 
necessary exercise. Many of our sports are faulty in 
leaving most of the muscles idle. The best real exercise 
for all the muscles is probably obtained by boxing, lawn 
tennis, and Rugby football. 

Violent exercise should never be taken without proper 
training. By training, we do not mean the old-fashioned 



160 tOSTtfRES. fSYStCJAl EXERCISES, 

idea of feeding a man on limited rations of half-raw meat, 
but simply an outdoor life, with plenty of good, nourishing 
food, and no lack of exercise for all the muscles. Violent 
exercise, without proper training of this kind, is likely to 
lead to most disastrous results, the commonest of which is 
heart disease resulting from overstrain. 

Some of the physiological effects of exercise deserve 
special mention. We have already mentioned that the 
muscles are increased in size and are rendered capable of 
doing more work. By exercise they are also brought more 
under the control of the will. The first effect of exercise 
is, perhaps, the quickening of the heart beat and the rate 
of respiration. The heart beats more rapidly and more 
forcibly, causing an increased flow of blood through the 
blood vessels all over the body. If the exercise be sudden 
and violent, the heart may be incapable of meeting this 
sudden demand upon it, and the valves may be rendered 
incompetent, giving rise to heart disease. But by gradu- 
ally increasing the exercise the heart is strengthened and 
the coats of the arteries are made stronger and healthier. 

Eespiration is also quickened by exercise. The amount 
of air taken in at each inspiration is increased, and larger 
quantities of water and carbon dioxide are gi^en out in the 
expired air. Thus, a man at rest draws into his lungs 
each minute about 480 cubic inches of air, but if walking 
at the rate of three miles per hour he takes in 1550 cubic 
inches of air, and if he increases his rate to six miles per 
hour, the amount of air that he inspires is raised to 3250 
cubic inches. 

The skin acts freely while exercise is being taken. The 
blood vessels surrounding the sweat glands are distended 
with blood, and the secretion of sweat is increased. In 
this way an extra quantity of waste matter is removed 
from the body by the skin. 



fOSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. l6l 

Other effects of exercise include the exhilaration and 
strengthening of the nervous system, the improvement of 
the appetite and digestion, and the stimulation of the 
kidneys and bowels, thereby aiding the elimination of 
waste matters from the body. 

For the scholars in our schools there is little to choose 
between the various games. Cricket, football, rounders, 
rackets, tennis, fives, leapfrog, hopscotch, blindman's buff, 
skipping, swimming, and many others may be said to be 
almost equally good for children. Any game that organises 
children to perform free and natural movements in the 
open air or in well ventilated rooms should be encouraged. 
All that the child requires is to be taught a few games. 
Most healthy children may be safely left to themselves 
after that, so far as active supervision is concerned. A 
child who has had the proper amount of both mental and 
physical exercise during the day will sleep soundly at 
night, and will be completely refreshed after its proper 
night's rest. 

One of the natural results of the increased circulation 
followed by increased secretion and evaporation which are 
caused by exercise is an increased desire for water. This 
should always be gratified, and children should be en- 
couraged to drink freely, particularly after exercise. Ice- 
cold drinks should be avoided, but it is not dangerous to 
drink cold liquids while the body is heated provided it is 
taken in sips. A plentiful supply of water is needed by 
the body to dissolve the waste products which are formed, 
and to convey them in the dissolved condition to the excre- 
tory organs. 

While discussing physical exercise for children a word 
about drill would not be out of place. It has been 
pointed out that systematic exercise for children is an 
imperative necessity if they are to be healthy physically 

SCH. HYG. 11 



162 POSTtTRES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

and mentally. The mental level of any school will 
inevitably be low if physical exercise is not recognised 
as a necessary part of the time-table. But all that is 
necessary is proper organisation of games. Games, no 
matter how simple or how trivial, are all that are neces- 
sary. Personally I regard drill in schools, particularly 
for children under 14 years of age, as an unmitigated evil. 
As the result of close observation extending over a long 
period and a wide area of educational work I am con- 
vinced that a comparatively short period of drill rapidly 
reduces a child to a condition of physical and mental 
exhaustion. The movements of drill are stiff, unnatural, 
strained, and monotonous, and are performed under 
physical and mental stress. A child can play hard for 
an hour or two and then be ready for good mental work, 
but after twenty minutes drill the average child returns 
to work with a dulled intelligence and a lack of energy 
for further work of any kind. The attention is strained 
during the whole period of drill. During my lectures to 
teachers all over the "West Riding of Yorkshire (West 
Riding County Council Lectures) I vigorously preached this 
doctrine and was particularly pleased to receive obvious 
signs of approval from the teachers. Most practical teachers 
are agreed that drill is undesirable for the child. All 
" systems " of drill must be kept out of the schools : they 
are useful only in special, individual, and peculiar cases ; 
they do the average child more harm than good. Dr. 
Carpenter in his School Hygiene advocates drill for 
schools, but, curiously enough, illustrates his contention 
with an event [that serves to prove rather conclusively 
the opposite theory. The circumstance occurred at the 
Anerley School, where the introduction of a drill master 
and drill served to exhaust the boys to such an extent that 
horseplay and mischief in the dormitories disappeared. 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 163 

The healthy boy who is too tired for mischief, when a 
slack discipline permits it, is overtired, which is another 
way of saying that he is exhausted. It should be 
unnecessary to remark that the excellent practice of 
causing the children to stand out of the desks for a few 
seconds between lessons and to make a few simple move- 
ments is beneficial in many ways, as it relieves cramp and 
promotes the circulation. No precision of movement or 
correct position should be insisted on. 

The Recess. 

In order that physical exercise may be possible there 
should be at least a fifteen minute recess in the middle of 
the morning and also of the afternoon school. This is 
the absolute minimum, and twenty minutes is desirable in 
every school. These intervals should be fully occupied by 
simple games that can be commenced instantly by groups 
of the scholars, and it should be the duty of the teachers 
to organise some such system. Most of the children in 
our schools are taught no games properly, and the result 
is that the precious moments of the inadequate recess are 
wasted, except that the children are in the open air. 
Proper activity during these times will tend to counteract 
the tendency towards malformations which improper 
postures have commenced. The deeper breathing purifies 
the blood and removes some of the ill effects of insufficient 
ventilation, and in every way the recess should be 
regarded as the absolutely unalterable part of the school 
time-table. 

The Games. 



But it must not be thought that these intervals of 
recess give sufficient physical exercise for the children. 
The systematic organisation of school sports should 



164 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

include the summer evenings and the two half -holidays 
for secondary schools, and the evenings and Saturday 
mornings for primary schools. This organisation, if 
expected from any of the teaching staff, ought to be 
rewarded by proper payment. It is no exaggeration to 
claim that if any town or district devoted proper attention 
to this subject in its primary schools there would be an 
immediate improvement in the mental, moral, and physical 
condition of the children, and benefits would be conferred 
that would be lifelong. All teachers of experience are 
agreed upon this. In those schools which muster a team 
for cricket, football, jumping, or swimming competitions, 
the effect upon those children who are fortunate enough 
to get selected for such training is most marked. The 
labour involved is not excessive. The energy of the 
British child is usually naturally exuberant, and simply 
requires directing along the right lines. A training in 
games and school contests tends to give perception and 
judgment, courage and skill, coolness and quick decision. 
The benefits of these in after life, particularly if they are 
not conferred by the sacrifice of proper mental training, 
are incalculable. 

Dr. Dukes says : " No question in the training of the 
young is of more general importance than the mode of 
employing the out-oj --school hours. Are the young as fully 
and wisely occupied in that time as during the hours of 
work ? If not, moral discipline must be absent. Do the 
boys take regular and vigorous exercise? If not, no 
sound health can result. Is their freedom from work a 
period of cheerful recreation, and constant lively occupa- 
tion; or is every hour a time of weariness and idle 
lounging ? If the latter, then no guarantee for conduct 
exists, and the character and tone of the boys must 
deteriorate." 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXEKCISES. 165 

The essential idea should be that all must play. Among 
primary schools at present, even under the best conditions, 
there are a few scholars selected for the teams and all the 
attention is devoted to them, Also the necessary time 
and trouble are given quite voluntarily by usually one 
enthusiastic and good-natured member of the staff. The 
education authorities quite fail to recognise that physical 
education demands quite as much deliberate study, care, 
and method as mental training, and that it confers 
qualities which are at least as valuable in after life as 
those obtained by usual "education" as we know it at 
present. 

It should be remembered that all violent forms of 
exercise should be discouraged among girls. I am con- 
vinced that violent exercise at hockey or tennis is 
calculated to produce injury. The best and most uniform 
results are obtained by organising the simpler and less 
exhausting games among girls. 

A gymnasium is not desirable for primary schools. It 
has many advantages for a secondary school, but it must 
not be allowed to take the place of games. In fact the 
use of the gymnasium should be mainly limited to the 
winter, after dark, and on wet days. Like drill it is 
not recreation, but merely a change of work, and the 
exercise of the young must be recreation as well as 
exercise. 

Before dismissing the subject of physical exercises and 
games it is necessary to point out that there should be a 
physical examination of all scholars on entrance to the 
school. This should be carried out as carefully and as 
thoroughly as though for life assurance. Unless this is 
done those children who are most in need of physical 
education may receive grievous injury by indiscriminate, 
unregulated, and unwise exercise. 



166 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

BEEATHING EXERCISES. 

The well-known injunction, " Shut your mouth ; keep 
your mouth shut," should be one of the golden rules of 
childhood. Respiration can only be carried out properly 
when the air enters through the nose. A vast number, of 
children, however, habitually breathe through the mouth. 
Many of these are unable to use the nose because it is 
partly or wholly blocked by adenoid vegetations, attacks of 
catarrh, or some other cause. Such children are usually 
of low vitality, and they soon give up all attempt to 
breathe through the nose. Where there is a mechanical 
obstruction it is obvious that breathing exercises are of 
little or no use until the obstruction is removed. On the 
other hand there are a great many children, and probably 
a rapidly increasing number, who have simply acquired the 
bad habit of mouth breathing, and to this bad habit may 
probably be traced the increase in the numbers of adenoid 
children. Mouth breathing as a bad habit is often acquired 
by weakly children, and in such cases it is practically 
always followed by nasal obstruction. 

Whether the mouth breathing be due to a mechanical 
obstruction or to a bad habit it has a great and far-reach- 
ing effect upon the health, development, activity, and 
usefulness of the child throughout life. Lack of use is 
always followed by arrest in development, and as the nasal 
passages are mainly for respiration it necessarily follows 
that those regions will not take part in the general growth 
of the child if they are no longer used. The respiratory 
system as a whole remains undeveloped owing to partial 
use only, and the whole body and life of the child is neces- 
sarily affected. "A debilitated child, with low vitality, 
impaired energy, and lax tissues, will, if nasal obstruction 
be added to the other defects by which it is handicapped, 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 167 

find it too much trouble to breathe fully. It gives up 
running or playing games which would compel it to 
expand its chest ; it muddles through life at a low level of 
respiratory exchange." (British Medical Journal, 1905.) 
Weakly children of this type in fact breathe almost wholly 
by the contraction of the diaphragm, and where these 
respiratory peculiarities are combined with softness of the 
bones, as in rickety children, the contraction of the dia- 
phragm will usually cause a well-marked depression, 
running outwards and downwards on each side of the chest 
wall, and marking the attachments of the muscle to the 
ribs. 

Breathing exercises will be found very useful to occupy 
an odd minute or two between lessons. Of course they 
are useless, or nearly so, if the air is impure, so that all 
windows should be widely open o,t the time. No child 
can breathe properly when in a stooping position. The 
position of the shoulder-blades is important ; they should 
be forced downwards and towards each other. A good 
plan is to teach the children to sit and stand with the 
hands firmly held on the hips, the shoulders pulled back 
and held steady, and the shoulder-blades pulled downwards 
and onwards. The child should then be taught to take 
slow steady breaths through the nose, the moufch l)eing 
firmly closed, raising the chest to accommodate the extra 
quantity of air, and keeping the shoulders fixed. The 
object should not necessarily be to increase the permanent 
growth of the chest, but to make as great as possible the 
difference between the fullest expansion and the greatest 
contraction. The most vital measurement is the differ- 
ence between the full and the empty chest. The power of 
emptying the chest, as well as the capacity for increased 
expansion, will be found to improve wonderfully with a 
little practice. The above mode of breathing should be 



168 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

practised several times daily, but not for long at a time. 
It will be found, in a large number of cases, to induce a 
habit of calm, deep, steady breathing, and a marked differ- 
ence will be noticeable in the shape of the chest, as well as 
in the general bearing and health. Such exercises, in fact, 
if generally and thoroughly carried out in every school, and 
by all children, would do more than anything else to cause 
u rapid diminution in the number of cases of adenoids in 
children and consumption in young adults, and, in addition, 
practically wipe away such complaints as indigestion and 
anaemia. 

The following exercises are recommended by a writer in 
the British Medical Journal, 1905 : 

" 1. Extend the hands and stretch the arms forwards 
from the shoulders, leaving about a foot between the hands, 
which should be turned with the palms inwards and fingers 
stretched out straight. Slowly move the arms backwards 
as far as they will go (while deeply inspiring), and slowly 
bring them forwards until they are in the same position 
as at starting (while deeply expiring). Eepeat this from 
three to six times. 

"2. Hold the hands down with the palms against the 
legs. Raise them with palms inwards (inspiring), and 
when they are immediately above the head turn the palms 
outward and slowly bring them down to the sides (ex- 
piring). Eepeat from three to six times. 

" 3. Hold the hands against the thorax, with the fingers 
pointing inwards and touching back to back. Then with 
a swift movement swing the arms out as far as they will 
go (while inspiring). Begin again (expiring), and repeat 
half-a-dozen times. 

" 4 Keep the arms down, the palms touching the sides, 
slowly turn the palms outwards as far as they will go 
(inspiring), and slowly bring them back to the sides 






POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 169 

(expiring). This may be done six or eight times. This 
exercise, apparently so simple, expands the chest and 
presses together the shoulder-blades." 

It would be difficult to improve upon this simple and 
valuable set of exercises. 

It may be useful to reproduce here the syllabus of 
breathing exercises recommended by the Inter- depart- 
mental Committee on the Model Course of Physical Exer- 
cises as presented to Parliament : 

DEEP BREATHING EXERCISES. 

These exercises are of great value, and should form part of the 
daily training of every scholar. It is of great importance that the 
correct method of nasal breathing should be taught from the begin- 
ning of school life. 

1. For Infants, a simple imitative exercise is the most easily 
acquired. 

The infants, standing or sitting, and watching the teacher, place 
the left hand over the pit of the stomach and breathe in as 
she does, noticing the hand rise during inhalation. The 
child then breathes out slowly, the hand at the same time 
sinking. On each occasion the teacher must watch the 
class carefully, and note that all the mouths are firmly 
closed, and that all breathing is through the nostrils only. 

This exercise should be repeated about 6 times at least twice 
daily. 

2. For Older Pupils. 

The teacher, starting from the position of attention, should see 
that all the mouths are firmly shut ; then on the command 
Breathe In (slowly given) instruct the pupils to breathe in 
slowly and deeply through the nostrils only, until the chest 
is fully expanded; then on the command Breathe Out 
(slowly given) to breathe out quietly and steadily ; this 
exercise should be repeated about 10 times at least twice 
daily. When the exercise is repeated the commands In, 
Qut only should be used. 



170 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

Note. Care must be taken that during inhalation the head and 
chest be not thrown too far back, nor the abdomen thrust forward. 

When the exercise has been thoroughly acquired, it can be 
gradually combined with the slow arm movements, which 
bring into play the auxiliary muscles of respiration. 

3. Combined Breathing and Slow Arm Exercises. 

When a combined movement is used, the caution, With Deep 
Breathing, should always precede the command for the arm 
movements, e.g. With Deep Breathing, Arms Sideways 
Raise. The arm movements employed should follow the 
rhythm of normal respiration (inhalation, exhalation 
pause; inhalation, exhalation pause), etc., and the breath- 
ing act must not be made to follow any artificial or arbitrary 
rhythm like that of music. It is also impossible that all 
members of a class should do the movements in absolute 
unison, for no two persons breathe naturally exactly alike. 
The most suitable arm movements to combine with the deep 
breathing exercises are : 

WITH DEEP BREATHING ARMS SIDEWAYS RAISING. 



With Deep 
Breathing, 
Arms Side- 
ways Raise 
(One). 



Raise the arms sideways in line with the shoulders, 
fingers extended, and palms downward, and at the 
same time breathe in slowly through the nostrils 
until the chest is fully expanded. 



/m \ ( Breathe out naturally, and at the same time lower 
Lower (Two). < ,. ,. ., ' 

' ( the arms to the sides. 

(a) This exercise may also be combined with Heels Raising, the 
commands being With Deep Breathing, Arms Sideways Raising, 
Heels and Arms Raise (One) ; Lower (Two). 

WITH DEEP BREATHING ARMS SIDEWAYS AND UPWARD RAISING. 
(To be done as a continuous movement.) 



With Deep 
Breathing, 
Arms Side- 
ways and 
Upward 
Raise (One). 



Raise the arms as above, keeping the arms 
straight and well back, turn the palms smartly up- 
ward, and immediately raise the arms until they are 
vertical above the shoulders, and at the same time 
breathe in slowly through the nostrils until the chest 
is fully expanded, 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 171 

fm \ ( Breathe out naturally, and at the same time lower 
(. the arms sideways and downward. 

(a) This exercise may also be combined with Heels Raising, the 
commands being With Deep Breathing, Arms Sideways and Upward, 
Heels and Arms Raise (One) ; Lower (Two). 



WITH DEEP BREATHING ARMS CIRCLING. 

Raise the arms forward to the level of the 



With Deep 
Breathing, 
Arms Circling 
Raise (One). 



shoulders, palms inward, elbows and fingers straight, 
arms parallel, continue the movement upwards till 
the arms are vertical, and, at the same time, breathe 
in slowly through the nostrils until the chest is fully 



^expanded. 

f Breathe out naturally, and at the same time lower 
I the arms sideways, first to the level of the shoulders, 
Loiver (Two).J^ keeping palms upward and arms well back, then 

turning the palms downward and lower the arms to 

the sides. 

(a) This exercise may also be combined with Heels Raising, the 
commands being With Deep Breathing, Arms Circling, Heels and 
Arms Raise (One) ; Lower (Two). 

N.B. Breathing Exercises should always be taken at the end of a 
physical training lesson, in order to prepare for rest, and also to aid 
in the elimination of the carbonic acid accumulated by the repeated 
contractions of the muscles during the lesson. They may also with 
advantage be taken in the course of Physical Training lessons or 
other school work. 

In connection with these exercises the attention of the teacher is 
specially directed to the fact that the object of such exercises is the 
healthy functioning of the lungs, not mere increase of chest capacity. 
The vital measurement is not chest capacity simply, but difference 
between the full and the empty chest. 



CHAPTER III. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

DURING school life it is important to realise that the body 
of a child is an organism highly susceptible to the effects 
of injurious influences. Also that while a child is at 
school it is surrounded by influences that are more or less 
injurious to its physical well-being. Most of the parts of 
the child's body, however, although highly susceptible to 
injury, have a wonderfully great recuperative power, so 
that although injury is undoubtedly produced during 
school hours it is recovered from during the intervals. 
Some of the organs unfortunately have little of this power 
of recovery, and the eye is one of these. If the eye of a 
child is injured by the school conditions there is little 
possibility of repair. The defect may, of course, be 
remedied by proper glasses, but tjiese do not repair the 
mischief. The greatest care should therefore be taken in 
order to prevent injury to the eyes of school children. 
Under modern conditions it is a serious thing for the 
worker to show signs of advancing age, and the wearing 
of spectacles does not improve a man's chances. At all 
events no one will deny that it is better to remove the 
initial causes of eye strain as far as possible rather than to 
attempt to correct the effects. With regard to children 
suffering from eye defects it should be remembered that 
they are not only handicapped in the struggle to keep the 

m 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 173 

educational pace with children of normal vision, but in 
many cases suffer from the nervous results of defective 
vision headaches, irritability, exhaustion, loss of interest, 
feebleness of will. 

Before describing how eye strain affects the eyes, it is 
necessary to have an elementary knowledge of the structure 
of the eye. 

STRUCTURE OF THE EYE. 

The human eye is often likened to a camera, and, as 
most people have had to do with photography either in 
the active or the passive sense, the comparison is a con- 
venient one. The essential parts of a camera are a box 
to give and maintain the necessary shape to the instru- 
ment, a convex lens to produce the picture, and a sensitive 
plate to receive and record it. In addition to this the box 
must be blackened inside to prevent reflection of light, and 
there must be some mechanism for focussing if pictures of 
objects at varying distances are to be photographed. 

Coats. 

The eye has three coats or layers 

1. The sclerotic and cornea. 

2. The choroid and iris. 

3. The retina. 

The sclerotic or the white of the eye is a tough, dense, 
fibrous membrane forming the greater part of the substance 
of the eyeball. It is the only part of the eye that is 
capable of resisting any strain, so that if by any chance it 
stretches or gives way the rest of the structures will at 
once follow suit. In front it is continued as the cornea, 
which, being transparent, forms the window of the eye. 

The choroid lies internal to the sclerotic, and is a net- 
work of blood-vessels. Its inner surface is black in order 



174 THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 

to prevent reflection, which would cause confusion of the 
images. This layer of black pigment is absent in albinoes, 
who, in consequence, are almost blind in bright daylight. 
Under the cornea the choroid is represented by a specialised 
structure called the iris, which is a circular contractile 
diaphragm. The central hole is called the pupil. Varying 
proportions and distribution of pigment deposited here 
give the different colours to different eyes. 



ct, 




rig- 74. 
DIAGRAMMATIC SECTION OF EYE. 

A, Anterior chamber filled with aqueous humour; C, Cornea; Ch, Choroid; 
I, Iris; L, Crystalline lens; O, Optic nerve; R, Retina; S, Sclerotic; 
SL, Suspensory ligament ; V, Vitreous humour ; Y, Yellow spot. 

The retina forms the inner coat of the eye, and repre- 
sents the sensitive plate of a camera. It is extremely 
delicate and thin, averaging only about ^ inch in thickness. 
It has a complicated structure, being made up of a vast 
number of minute bodies, placed together side by side 
like the squares of a mosaic, and is really an elaborate 
signalling apparatus for sending signals to the brain 
referring to the kind of impressions that it is receiving. 
One spot of the retina, called the yellow spot, differs 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 175 

from the remainder in its structure. It is the region of 
most distinct vision i.e. the spot upon which objects are 
focussed when they must be seen distinctly, as in the 
case of all special work such as reading, writing, or sewing. 
The enormous number of tiny nerve fibres from all parts 
of the retina are collected together at the back into a large 
trunk or cable called the optic nerve. The messages pass 
along these fibres to the part of the brain that has to 
deal with them. This part of the brain is best regarded 
as a kind of central office for receiving and interpreting 
these multitudes of messages. 

Contents. \ 

The contents of the eyeball are : 

1. The aqueous humour. 

2. The crystalline lens. 

3. The vitreous humour. 

The aqueous humour is a watery liquid occupying the 
chamber between the crystalline lens and the cornea. The 
crystalline lens is a translucent solid body, composed of 
soft gelatinous living tissue, situated immediately behind 
the pupil and partly imbedded in the vitreous humour. 
It is convex on both sides, but more so behind. In early 
life it is nearly spherical and soft, but becomes more 
flattened, firmer, and amber-coloured with advancing age. 
The lens is held in position by its capsule and suspensory 
ligament. The vitreous humour is a jelly-like material 
lying at the back of the lens and occupying about four-fifths 
of the interior of the globe. The above three substances are 
transparent, and with the cornea constitute the refractive 
media of the eye, which conjointly act as a converging 
lens, the function of which is to bring the rays of light to 
a focus upon the retina. 



176 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 



Muscles. 

Attached to the outside of the eye are six muscles, 
four straight and two oblique. The four straight muscles 




SO. 



S.R. 



Fig. 75. 

INSERTION OP THE STRAIGHT MUSCLES 

SR, Superior Rectus ; IE, (below), Inferior Rectus; ER, Externa 
Rectus ; IR, Internal Rectus. 

are attached symmetrically round the globe, above, below, 

right, left. These muscles, by their contractions, enable 

us to direct the eye towards 

different points. It is obvious 

that by the single action of one, 

or the combined action of two, 

the eye can be turned towards 

any direction. The two oblique 

muscles are inserted, slantwise, 

one above and one below the 

eye. By their contraction they 

can rotate the eye on its axis. so ' superior oblique; 10, in- 

mi . ' . , J ferior Oblique ; 8R, Superior 

Their action IS best Understood Rectus; IR, Inferior Rectus; 

T . , , . . , . , , ER, External fcectus. 

it a mark in the iris be watched 

while the head is moved from side to side. It will be 

then seen that the eye does not rotate with the head, 




Fig. 76. 

MUSCLES OF THE EYE. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 177 

but keeps its vertical meridian always vertical, during 
moderate movements of the head, by the contraction of 
its oblique muscles. 

ACCOMMODATION. 

If a candle, a convex lens, and a screen are held in line 
it is easy, by adjusting the distances separating them, to 
get a clearly denned image of the candle flame upon the 
screen. The image is then said to be in focus. If the 
candle is moved further away or nearer to the lens the 
image on the screen will become indistinct and is out of 
focus. In the same way it is necessary to adjust, or focus, 
a telescope or field-glass in order that the desired object 




NORMAL EYE RECEIVING PARALLEL RAYS (FROM DISTANT OBJECTS) AND BRINGING 
THEM TO A FOCUS ON THE RETINA. 

may be seen clearly. Now we know that the normal eye 
has the power to direct its attention to a distant object 
and see it clearly, and then immediately to turn its atten- 
tion to a near object and see that equally clearly. This 
is called accommodation. It is accomplished by airing 
the convexity of the lens. The convexity of the lens is 
increased by the contraction of a small muscle inside the 
eye. The more convex the lens the greater the power it 
has of turning the rays of light out of their original path 
and causing them to come to a focus. When the eye is 
looking at distant objects it is receiving light composed of 

SCH. HYG. 12 



178 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

rays that are practically parallel to each other, and the 
normal lens is capable of bringing these to a focus on the 
retina. Rays are practically parallel when springing from 
a point 20 feet or more distant. From near objects, how- 
ever, the rays are divergent, and need more turning to 
bring them to a focus. In order to focus such rays' the 
convexity of the lens is altered to the necessary extent by 
the contraction of the muscle already referred to. So that 
when looking at distant objects there is no muscular 
strain, and hence no fatigue, but looking at near objects 
involves contraction of the muscles and is liable to bring 




Fig. 78. 

NORMAL ETK KCKIVING RAYS FROM NEAR OBJECT AND BRINGING THKM TO A 

Focus ON THE RETINA BY INCREASING THE THICKNESS OP ITS LKNS 

(ACCOMMODATION) . 

about strain and fatigue. Also when looking at near 
objects there is necessarily contraction of the external 
muscles of the eye in order to pull the eyes towards each 
other, and so that the axis of each eye is directed towards 
the object to be seen. It therefore follows that the nearer 
the object is that we look at the greater is the muscular 
strain inside the eye, the greater the tension on the scle- 
rotic by the muscles pulling outside, and the greater the 
pressure exerted by the semi-liquid contents of the eyeball. 
These strains are likely to distort the shape of the eye. 
Looking at near objects involves muscular effort and exer- 
tion, and if unduly prolonged will cause fatigue, a condition 
which still further increases the tendency towards distortion. 



THE EYES Arffl EYESIGHT. 179 

DEFECTIVE EYES. 

Short-sighted Eye. 

When the strain upon the sclerotic Coat becomes too 
great for it to withstand it stretches. Like all materials 
it stretches at its weakest part, which happens to be at the 
back. Stretching in this region will cause the eye to 
become longer than normn.l in its axis from front to back. 




Fig. 79. 

SHORT-SIGHTED EYE RECEIVING RAYS FROM DISTANT OBJECT. 

These rays are focussed in front of retina and so produce a blurred picture on 
the retina. 

The result will be that when this eye is looking at distant 
objects, i.e. receiving parallel light, the usual amount 




Fig. 80. 

SnORT-gTGUTKD EYE RECEIVING RAYS FROM WEAR OBJFCT. 

These rays are accurately focussed on the retina and produce a clear picture 

of focussing will form the image in front of the retina 
(because the retina is farther back than usual). The 
picture thrown upon the retina will therefore be blurred 
and mdistinct. But when this eye looks at near objects 
the light that it receives consists of divergent rays which 



180 THE EYES AtiD 

require more turning to bring them to a focus, and which 
therefore tend to come to a focus farther back. The 
result is that a clear picture is formed on the retina in 
this case and the eye sees the near objects quite well. 
Such an eye is therefore called short-sighted (or myopic). 
It is important to remember that a child is never born 




Fig. 81. 

Snonr-siQHTEn EYE WITH SUITABLE LKNS IN FRONT. 

The hollow lens disperses the rays of light before they enter the eye. The eye 
then brings them to a focus on the retina. 

with this elongation of the eye. It is always an acquired 
defect, and is very rare even at the age of five. 

The remedy is fairly obvious. It is only necessary to 
put something in the path of the rays of light that will 
delay the focussing, or disperse them. This is brought 
about by a concave or hollow lens placed in front of the 
eye, the degree of concavity of the lens being accurately 
adjusted to suit each case. 

Long-sighted Eye. 

This is a congenital defect. The eye is developed with 
its axis from front to back shorter than usual, and the 
child is born with the eye in this condition. The result is 
that a picture of a distant object formed in the usual way 
would be focussed behind the retina, and only a blurred 
impression would be received. In order to see such a 
distant object clearly the eye then accommodates and 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 



181 



brings the rays more quickly to a focus, and so produces a 
clear picture on the retina. But if this eye now turns its 




Fig. 82. 

LONG-SIGHTED EYK RECEIVING RAYS PROM DISTANT OBJECT. 

These rays are focussed on the retina by increasing the thickness of the lens 
(accommodation) . 




Fig. 83. 
LONG-SIGHTED EYK RECEIVING RAYS FROM NEAR OBJECT. 

These cannot be focussed on the retina because the eye has already used its power 
of accommodation.. 




Fig. 84. 

LONG-SIGHTED EYE WITH SUITABLE LENS IN FRONT. 
This lens assists the lens of the eye to bring the rays to a focus more quickly. 

attention to near objects it cannot possibly see them clearly 
because it has already used its powers of accommodation to 
view distant ones. The result is that such an eye fails to 



182 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

see the near objects distinctly, and is therefore called long- 
sighted. 

The remedy is simple. A convex lens (like the one in 
the eye) is placed in front in order to bring the rays more 
quickly to a focus, and in that way remove the necessity of 
accommodating for distant objects. 

Astigmatism. 

V This is another congenital defect. Some children are 
born with the surface of the cornea unequally convex, the 
convexity being greater in the vertical meridian than in 
the horizontal, or vice versa. This will interfere with the 
proper focussing of the picture and prevent distinct vision.y 
The rays passing through the cornea in the vertical plane 
do not come to a focus at precisely the same spot as rays 
passing through it in the horizontal plane. Such a child, 
when looking at a clock face, may notice that the figures 
XII. and VI. (vertical) are clear and black, while the IX. 
and III. (horizontal) are dim and grey, or vice versa. If a 
cross is held in front of the child the vertical and the 
horizontal sticks cannot be focussed at the same time, so 
that one or the other always appears dim. The defect is 
extremely common in small degrees, and it very commonly 
accompanies long, sight. The greater degrees cause severe 
eye strain and headache, and should be corrected by 
proper glasses. 

Squint. 

Squint is the term applied when the eyes are not both 
directed towards the object looked at. One eye may turn 
inward more than the other, or one eye may turn outward. 
Occasionally one meets a case where one eye squints at one 
time and ^he other at another. The recognition and treat- 
ment of these cases is very important, because an eye that 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 183 

habitually squints from any cause, muscular or nervous, 
tends to deteriorate and become useless, and may eventually 
become blind. A common cause of squint is inequality of 
vision in the two eyes. 



SHORT SIGHT. 

Short sight is never congenital, it is always acquired as 
the result of certain injurious influences. The causes, like 
the causes of any disease, are best classified into the pre- 
disposing and the determining. The predisposing causes 
include heredity, malnutrition and constitutional disease. 
The determining causes are excessive convergence, eye 
strain, and congestion. 



Causes of Short Sight . 



Predisposing 

Heredity 

Malnutrition 

Constitutional Disease 
Determining 

Excessive Convergence 

Congestion 



Heredity. 

The tendency only is inherited. It has already been 
pointed out that a child is never born with the elongated 
eye that gives short sight. A child may be born with long 
sight or astigmatism, but the shape of the eye of the 
future short-sighted child is not elongated at birth. But a 
weak sclerotic may have been inherited from one or both 
parents, and this will, of course, predispose to short sight. 
Such a child may grow up with perfectly normal eyes ; in 
fact, if it never went to school it would almost certainly do 
so, but the chances are in favour of the strains of school 
life stretching the abnormally weak sclerotic. On the 



184 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

other hand, although many myopic children have parents 
who suffer from the same defect, it is usually found that 
the parents of nearly half the short-sighted children are 
not themselves myopic. It is a significant fact that 
myopia usually first begins to become troublesome at the 
age of eight or nine, i.e. when the strain of school con- 
ditions have had time to produce the necessary distortion. 
Myopia once acquired tends to increase if the causes 
which produce it are allowed to continue. 

Malnutrition. 

Defective nutrition plays another important part as a 
predisposing cause of short sight. It is usual to find more 
defects among weakly and underfed children than among 
the more healthy and better fed. In these cases the 
sclerotic simply shares in the general deterioration of 
tissue, and is less capable of withstanding strain than the 
normal sclerotic. 

Disease. 

Constitutional disease may be a factor in any case of 
myopia. A commonly occurring case is that of a healthy 
child with normal vision in attendance at school. Some 
acute illness supervenes, necessitating absence from school 
for some weeks. The child recovers and returns to school, 
still with normal vision, but in a comparatively short time 
the strain of school life has caused the sclerotic to stretch, 
and the child becomes short-sighted. The previously 
healthy sclerotic was able to withstand the strain, but 
when it was suffering, with the other tissues of the body, 
from the defective nutrition caused by the illness, it could 
no longer resist the pulling and straining that it received. 



THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 185 

Professor Priestley Smith says : "A sound physique, a 
healthy, vigorous condition of the body generally is antago- 
nistic to the working of almost every morbid process, and 
even in the case of short sight, the causes of which are 
mainly local rather than constitutional in their operation, 
it has a powerful deterrent influence. An ill- nourished, 
pale, and lax condition of the body lowers the resisting 
power of the eye, as of every other organ ; an impaired 
physique brings with it, among other evils, an impaired 
resistance to the active causes of short sight." 

Eye Strain or Excessive Convergence. 

It has already been pointed out that when the eye is 
looking at objects 20 feet or more away it is at rest, and 
no muscular effort is required. On the other hand, in 
looking at a near object, the eyes assume a position of 
convergence. Each eye is pulled towards the other by the 
muscle which is attached to its inner side. The nearer 
the object the greater the pulling required. The object 
of convergence is to bring the yellow spot of each retina 
to bear on the same point. This pull puts the sclerotic 
coat on the stretch, and is the direct mechanical cause 
leading to the production of short sight. If the twenty- 
first year, or perhaps to be quite safe it should be the 
twenty- fifth year, is reached without any stretching of the 
sclerotic coat it is extremely unlikely that short sight will 
ever be developed. By that age the coat is sufficiently 
tough to resist all ordinary strain. 

It has been proved beyond all doubt that our educational 
methods are chiefly to blame for the production of short 
sight. Dr. Seggel, for instance, examined the eyes of 
1600 soldiers, and divided the men into classes according 
to their previous histories. 



186 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

Percentage of 
Previous History. Short-sighted 

Men 

Countrymen, educated in village schools ... 2 

Labourers, porters, etc., from towns ... ... 4 

Artisans ... ... ... ... ... 9 

Tradesmen, clerks, compositors ... ... 44 

University students ... ... ... ... 58 65 

Another observer, Dr. Cohn, as the result of extensive 
and laborious investigations, found that short sight was 
present in one per cent, of the children in village schools, 
in six per cent, of elementary town schools, and rose to 
twenty-six per cent, in the advanced schools. Statistics also 
tend to prove conclusively that the proportion of children 
suffering from myopia steadily increases from the lower to 
the upper classes in schools. Among children between seven 
and nine years of age about two or three per cent, are short- 
sighted, while among those between ten and eleven years 
about eight per cent., and of those between twelve and thir- 
teen years about fifteen per cent. Dr. Kerr, on examining 
infants, found that fifteen per cent, of seven-year-old 
children had a moderate deficiency of vision, and four-and- 
a-half per cent, had bad vision. At the age of eight these 
numbers had increased to sixteen and seven respectively. 
The chief factors in the production of eye strain are fine 
work, bad light, improper attitudes, bad methods of writing, 
and small and indistinct type. 

Small print, fine stitches, small writing, and all such 
work should be regarded as unnecessary torture for 
children. Nothing could possibly have been devised to do 
more harm than the needlework that is usually taught 
infants. It is undoubtedly the cause of the excess of 
short sight among girls. Mr. Priestley Smith found myopia 
in 7J per cent, of the girls and 4 per cent, of the boys he 
examined. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 187 

Type. 

For school books a plain legible type of the proper size 
should be used. For children under seven years old there 
should be no smaller type than English, and larger type is 
preferable, while for older children the best type is Pica. 

[English.] 

He has, however, something better. As 
the best preservative against Popery, he 
recommends the diligent perusal of the 
Scriptures ; a duty, from which he warns 

[Pica.] 

He has, however, something better. As 
the best preservative against Popery, he 
recommends the diligent perusal of the 
Scriptures ; a duty, from which he warns 

[SmaU Pica.] 

He has, however, something better. As the 
best preservative against Popery, he recommends 
the diligent perusal of the Scriptures ; a duty, from 
which he warns the busy part of mankind not to 

[Long Primer.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best 
preservative against Popery, he recommends the dili- 
gent perusal of the Scriptures ; a duty, from which he 
warns the busy part of mankind not to think themselves 

[Bourgeois.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best preser- 
vative against Popery, he recommends the diligent perusal of 
the Scriptures ; a duty, from which he warns the busy part 
of mankind not to think themselves excused. He now reprinted 



188 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

Clearness and spacing are quite as important as size- 
All type in school books should be leaded. The great 
effect of this in increasing legibility is shown by the 
following examples : 

[Solid Type.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best 
preservative against Popery, he recommends the 
diligent perusal of the Scriptures; a duty, from 
which he warns the busy part of mankind not to 

[Thin Leaded Type.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best 
preservative against Popery, he recommends the 
diligent perusal of the Scriptures ; a duty, from 
which he warns the busy part of mankind not to 

[Double Leaded Type.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best 
preservative against Popery, he recommends the 
diligent perusal of the Scriptures ; a duty, from 
which he warns the busy part of mankind not to 

The intervals between words should be not less than 
double the width of a single letter, and for beginners it 
is an advantage to have still greater intervals. 

The length of the line of print is also important. The 
shorter the line the less fatigue it produces, because the 
eyes have to be moved less. The maximum length of line 
should be from 3 to 3^ inches, and no double column 
arrangement should be allowed. The printer's habit of 
splitting a word at the end of a line is trying to the eye, 



THE E?ES ANt> EYESIGHT. 189 

and should not be allowed in school books. It is a further 
advantage for the page to be well broken up into sections 
and paragraphs. 

The kind of paper must be considered. It should be 
opaque and sufficiently stout to prevent the print on the 
other side showing through. In fact there should be no 
indication whatever that there is printed matter on the 
other side of the paper. The surface must be dull and 
smooth, and the best colour is a faint neutral cream or 
grey. 

The colour of the ink, both for writing and printing, 
should be jet black. The question of handwriting has 
already been discussed, but it should be noted here that 
children under seven years of age should not be expected 
to write letters less than half an inch in height. 

There is undoubtedly far too much reading and writing 
inflicted upon young children. All fine work should be 
avoided, if it is desired that the child should grow up 
uninjured by its educational experience. Map-reading and 
map-drawing are common tortures for the eyes, most of 
the print and writing thereon being necessarily very small. 
Most maps present a mass of bewildering detail that no 
young child should be expected to decipher. The sprawl- 
ing of the names of districts and provinces among the 
names of the towns, the shading which is intended to 
represent mountains, and the winding in and out of the 
rivers unite to produce utter confusion. Small maps 
should be abolished, and large wall maps and those drawn 
on blackboards, by teacher or scholars, substituted. 

Congestion. 

Congestion, or overfilling of the small blood vessels in 
the neighbourhood of the eye, is an active cause of the 
stretching that brings about short sight. It is produced 



190 THE ErtSS AND EYESIGHT. 

by many of the conditions common to school life. Bending, 
either due to bad desks, bad light, or very fine work, or a 
combination of two or more of such common conditions, 
quickly causes congestion in these regions. In girls' 
classes it is often brought about rapidly by tight collars, 
while a cause which is common to all the standards, but 
particularly infants, is mental fatigue. 

Signs of Short Sight. 

The signs of short sight are very obvious when the 
deficiency is pronounced, but only very careful testing will 
detect it at the early stages. The pronounced signs are 
that the child holds its work close to the eyes, and can read 
easily from a book held near, but makes mistakes when 
copying work from a diagram or from the blackboard at a 
distance. The child often acquires a habit of peering, 
and knitting its brows. Headache and pain are also com- 
mon indications of eye trouble. 

Signs of Long Sight. 

Long sight usually does not give rise to such obvious 
symptoms as short sight. These eyes can distinguish 
distant objects with ease, and often manage nearer ones if 
the effort is not prolonged. Such a child in a reading 
lesson will read accurately for a few lines, then stop or 
make a mistake, and when questioned as to the cause will 
complain that "the letters are dancing about." The 
continued effort at exaggerated accommodation has 
exhausted the muscles and they refuse to maintain the 
strain. After a short rest, or a rub, the task can be 
resumed. Headache, blinking, red and watery eyes are 
other signs and symptoms of this defect. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT?. 191 

Treatment of Eye Defects. 

In the majority of cases it will be found that the 
defective vision can be improved by the proper glasses. 
The eye is then relieved from much of its strain, and the 
deficiency may not increase. On the other hand, there 
could be no greater mistake than to suppose that every 
child with defective vision requires glasses. A few will 
regain normal vision in a few years, without glasses, if the 
eyes are relieved from the strain of fine work. There are 
considerable numbers of children attending school whose 
vision is bad and whom glasses will not help. The only 
way to treat such children is to apply to them a con- 
siderable modification of our educational system. Special 
provision is made for the blind already, but these children 
are much more worth educating than the blind, and yet 
are being severely injured by the ordinary school educa- 
tion. 

It should be clearly understood that myopia in children, 
even though not severe at the time, must be regarded as a 
serious condition, inasmuch as it not only tends to increase 
in severity, but it also may cause disease of the eye which 
diminishes the acuteness of vision and may lead to 
blindness. 

To Prevent Injury to Eyes at School. 

To sum up, we may say that the essential points to be 
observed in order to prevent injury to the eyes of school 
children are : 

1. The room must be well lighted in every part. No 
room should be deemed satisfactory by a casual inspection. 
The light ought to be actually tested in those places 
farthest away from the windows. A simple test that has 



192 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

been suggested is that a scholar should be able to read at 
12 inches distance, and without strain, diamond type. For 
example : 

In fact, the occasion had brought to light one of the many contradictions in the Roman constitu- 
tion. On the one hand Cirero, as commissioned to uie the dictatorial powers, was within his rights 
in executing the prisoners ; on the other, it was contrary to law to assail the life of any citizen 
without the sanction of the people. Cicero was at once right and wrong, and moreover, apart from 
the mere question of legality, the crisis was grave enough if all was true that Cicero's informants 
alleged to be the facts to condone stern measures ; but unfortunately it came at the very time when 



2. The direction of the light should be from the left if 
possible. At all events there must be no window or any 
source of light in front of the children. 

3. No unreasonably fine objects should be used. Every- 
thing that the children use should be easily distinguished. 

4. There should be no stooping over the work. 

5. The work must not be held nearer to the eyes than 12 
inches. 

6. This is the most important rule of all. No child 
under seven years old should read ordinary book print, nor 
write ordinary small handwriting, nor should do any sewing 
whatever. Until this fundamental principle is observed in 
every school in the country there will continue to be un- 
necessary damage done to children's eyes. 

Dr. Kerr, in his evidence before the Committee on 
Physical Deterioration, said he considered that the methods 
pursued in many infant schools were responsible for the 
development of visual defects ; 95 per cent, of over 1000 
infants examined for the purpose between the age of 6 and 
6 1 managed to reach the standard of normal visual acuity 
in London, but among older children it was found that 10 
per cent, had exceedingly defective vision. The conditions 
are bad for infants' eyesight in every way ; the work is too 
fine. 



THE EXES AND EYESIGHT. 193 



TESTING OF EYESIGHT. 

The usual test type is that for use at 20 feet distance. 
Under each line of type is a number signifying the distance 
in feet that the type should be legible to the normal eye. 
The largest type is usually numbered 200 feet, and the others 
range down 100, 70, 50, 40, 30, and the smallest 20 feet. 
The child should stand, facing the type, at a distance of 20 
feet from it. He then reads the letters row by row, begin- 
ning at the top. If all the letters are read correctly from 
top to bottom the child is passed as normal. As a matter 
of fact a child's vision should be better than what is called 
"normal." The method of recording results is usually to 
express them as fractions, all having a common numerator, 
20, and having as denominator the figure representing the 
distance at which a normal eye could read the smallest 
letters that were correctly read by the child in question. 
The normal child would thus be recorded -|. Another 
child might make a mistake with the " 30 feet type," so 
that the smallest type that he has read correctly is the " 40 
feet type." His vision, recorded as |. Some test cards 
record the distances in metres, the 20 feet type being repre- 
sented by 6 metres. This causes all the numerators to 
become 6 instead of 20. 



son. HTG. 13 



194 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 



W 











o 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 195 

It is, however, desirable that teachers should devote 
themselves solely to detecting children with eyes below 
the normal, without trying to determine the exact degree 
of deficiency. For this purpose the writer (in consultation 
with Dr. J. E. Kaye, County Medical Officer) drew up the 
following rules for use in the schools of the West Eiding 
of Yorkshire. 



WEST EIDING- COUNTY COUNCIL. 



SIGHT-TESTING OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

General Scheme. 

It is considered advisable that the teacher should roughly 
divide the children into three chief classes : 

A. Normal Vision. Those children who can easily read 

"20 type" at 20 feet. 

B. Moderate Deficiency. Those children who fail to 

read " 20 type " correctly at 20 feet, but can read 
"40 type" at 20 feet. 

C. More Serious Defects. Those children who fail to 

read " 20 type " and " 40 type " at 20 feet. 

Directions for Testing. 

The Type. Several selections of "20 type" and "40 
type " are provided in order that the children may not 
acquire any degree of familiarity with the letters and 
their order. The letters should be hung in a good light, 
but not in direct sunlight, five feet from the floor. 

The Scholar. The child should stand, facing the type, 
at a distance of 20 feet. No window or any source of light 



196 



THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 



should be opposite the scholar. Any straining or guessing 
should be prevented as far as possible. 

Method. All the Scholars are first tested with the " 40 
type." Those who fail with this test constitute Class C. 
The others are submitted to the test with " 20 type " which 
will serve to divide them into groups A and B. (If 
time allows, group C may also be tested with the "20 
type.") 

A Register should be previously prepared with the names 
and columns ruled as follows : 



Name. 


Stand- 
ard. 


(l) 
Date. 


(2) 

40 
Type. 


(3) 

20 
Type. 


(4) 
Class of 
Vision. 


Remarks. 


Jones, John 






+ 


+ 


A 




Eobinson, Mary 











C 




Smith, Thos. . 






4- 





B 





The Register should contain at least four sets of the 
columns marked 1 to 4, so as to hold the results of four 
consecutive examinations. 

Each child's sight should be tested as soon after entering 
the school as possible, and twice a year after. 



Children Requiring Attention. 

Short of actual testing of the eyesight the following list 
may prove useful in helping the teacher to select suitable 
cases requiring the attention of the Medical Officer : 

1. All those with sore eyes. 

2. All those whose eyes are congested and red. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 197 

3. All those who peer and blink when they wish to see 
anything particularly well. 

4. All those who appear to be in difficulty when they are 
reading from map or diagram or blackboard. 

5. All those who complain of headache, or who appear 
to fear a bright light. 

6. All those who turn the head sideways or slanting in 
order to read. 

7. All those who hold the book nearer than one foot 
when reading. Also those who hold the book at arm's 
length. 

8. All those who squint constantly or occasionally. 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 

THE EAE. 

THE organ of hearing is not greatly affected by school 
life, but there are certain conditions common in childhood 
that should be mentioned. The exact structure of the ear, 
being rather complicated, and impossible to explain without 
elaborate diagrams or models, is beyond the scope of this 
book, but an elementary description is necessary. The ear 
is divided into three parts, the external, middle, and internal 
ear. The external ear is that external structure which is 
usually described as "the" ear. It serves as a means of 
collecting waves of sound. An open tube, called the 
auditory canal, leads inwards from it. The canal is about 
an inch long, and is set near its mouth with fine hairs, 
while within, embedded in the walls, lie some small glands, 
which secrete wax. The hairs help to prevent the entrance 
of insects. The wax serves to entangle bacteria and insects 
that have gained admission. If the wax collects in too 
great quantity it will block the passage and cause deafness. 
This can easily be removed by syringing with hot water. 

The external auditory canal ends at the tympanum or 
ear-drum. This is a membrane, like the top of a drum, 
and vibrates to the sound waves that reacli it, Qn the 

198 



THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 199 

other side of the drum is a small cavity called the middle 
ear. This contains three small bones, whose functions are 
to pass on the vibrations of the drum, and the remainder 
of the cavity is filled with air. From the floor of the 
middle ear there passes downwards a tube (the Eustachian 
tube) which opens into the pharynx. The walls of the 
middle ear, and the blood in the capillaries there, absorb 
the air, and would cause a decrease in pressure in that 
cavity if the Eustachian tube did not admit air, and so 
equalise the pressure on both sides. If the tube gets 
blocked, by a severe cold, or by the pressure of adenoid 
growths, for instance, this absorption takes place, the pres- 
sure in the middle ear falls, the tympanic membrane becomes 
tense and is unable to vibrate, and deafness results. 

The internal ear has a complicated structure which it is 
not necessary to consider here. 

Deafness. 

The deafness of a child may be due to some compara- 
tively simple cause, such as an accumulation of wax in 
the external auditory canal, or adenoids blocking up the 
Eustachian tube ; but on the other hand it may be due to 
more serious and complicated defects, such as diseases 
of the middle or inner ear, interference with the audi- 
tory nerve, or defective development of, or damage to, the 
hearing centre situated in the brain. All cases of deafness 
should be selected by the teacher and presented for medical 
examination when opportunity occurs. At the very lowest 
estimate such a defect will cause part of the instruction 
given to the child to be wasted. Hearing is sometimes 
apparently deficient when the real deficiency is that of 
attention. Mentally feeble children often hear perfectly 
well, but will not take the trouble to listen and to dis- 
tinguish sounds. Patience and the presentation of pleasant 



200 THE BAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 

musical sounds will often work wonders in developing 
this important sense. 

Earache and Ear Discharge. 

These are unfortunately of frequent occurrence in school 
children. At least one per cent, of the children have 'dis- 
charging ears. Earache should always receive attention, 
because it is the first signal that some mischief is being 
done. In many cases it is due to inflammation in the middle 
ear. This part of the ear is liable to bacterial invasion 
along the Eustachian tube. If the inflammation is severe 
it may lead to the formation of matter or pus in the 
middle ear. Then the drum is perforated, and the pus 
trickles down the external auditory canal as "ear dis- 
charge." It is of the utmost importance that such a 
discharge should be medically treated and cured at once. 
A child with an ear discharge should be likened to a person 
living on the edge of a precipice: it may continue for 
years, but disaster may occur at any moment. If treated 
at once the discharge will stop, and the hole in the drum 
will probably heal up, and the loss of hearing will only be 
very slight. If it is neglected it will become chronic and 
the ear may be permanently damaged. If it is treated 
afterwards it is very difficult to cure, and the hole in the 
drum will not heal up, so that some loss of hearing is 
inevitable. Moreover the trouble may cause death at 
practically any time. There is only a thin plate of bone 
separating the middle ear from the brain, and this may be 
attacked and perforated by the inflammatory process. The 
next step would be the formation of an abscess in the 
brain, and death may be rapidly brought about. 

In the case of children who have recently been away 
from school on account of an attack of scarlet fever or 
diphtheria, a discharge from the ears may be of a highly 



THE EAR, THROAT, AND TOICE. 201 

infectious character, and may cause a school epidemic. 
In such cases the child should be sent home at once, and 
the matter reported. The discharge in other cases may 
not be capable of setting up any definite disease in the 
other children, but if some of the matter finds its way into 
the eyes, ears, throats, or noses of other children, it may 
cause a great deal of injury. At all events it is desirable 
that all children suffering from ear discharge should be 
excluded from school. 



TESTS OF HEARING. 

Statistics are available to show that about twenty per 
cent, of school children possess some defect of hearing, 
either in one or in both ears. It is impossible to estimate 
the real meaning of apparent dulness or inattention until 
the hearing has been tested. 

The test may be made in one of two ways, either by a 
watch or by the voice. For the older scholars the watch 
method gives good results, but for younger children the 
voice test is more reliable. 

The same watch should be used for all the children. It 
is first of all tested with some good ears, and its correct 
ticking distance ascertained. Members of the staff may 
test each other for this purpose. Watches vary in the loud- 
ness of the tick, but the average one can be heard by the 
normal ear through a distance of about 4 feet. A very loud 
one may be heard 10 feet. A stop-watch is to be preferred, 
because the ticking is then under control. The quietest 
room in the school should be selected for the test. The 
child should be seated, and a tape measure is stretched 
horizontally backwards from the back of his head. The 
child's eyes should be closed. The person who is making 
the test brings up the watch (which we will suppose to 



202 THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 

have a 48-inch tick) from a distance to the 48th mark on 
the tape. If the child can hear the ticking at this distance 
it has normal hearing, and is passed on. If the ticking 
cannot be heard the watch is moved inch by inch nearer 
until the ticking becomes audible. The tape must touch 
neither the child's head nor the watch, because it will 
convey the sound better than the air. The tape is provided 
simply as a convenience for reading off the distances and 
for providing a level. In order to get reliable results it is 
necessary to repeat the tests several times. If a louder 
watch is used a chalk line on the floor, with divisions, 
representing half a foot each, will be sufficiently exact for 
recording distances. 

For testing by the voice the ordinary speaking voice is 
not sufficiently exact to give good results. For instance, it 
would be difficult to be quite sure that one is giving exactly 
the same test in six months' time as one is to-day, i.e. to 
be sure of the exact pitch and tone, etc. But if a forced 
whisper is used the test is much more exact. By a forced 
whisper is meant a loud whisper with a forced expiration 
helping it. This is fairly constant in the same person, and 
can be heard a considerable distance (varying from 30 to 
60 feet about). One person must test the whole school, 
and the hearing distance of his forced whisper is first 
ascertained by testing good ears. Suppose it is found to 
be 60 feet. The test should be made in a quiet playground 
or room. A line 60 feet long, marked in feet, is chalked or 
painted on the floor : the child stands at one end with the 
back to the observer ; the one performing the test stands 
at the other end, and an assistant stands by the child. 
The observer whispers various words (single syllable 
numbers are the best), and the child tells the assistant 
what he has heard. If the child cannot hear at all at this 
distance, or makes a mistake, the observer moves foot by 



THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 203 

foot nearer and repeats the test. Finally, the distance at 
which the child can hear this sound is ascertained and 
recorded. The advantage of this method is that it is inde- 
pendent of the child's possible misinterpretation of the 
sound. In the watch method mistakes are constantly made 
by the child saying it can hear the ticking when it really 
does not. All children showing a deficiency of hearing 
should be presented for medical examination. 

Deaf and Dumb Children. 

Children born deaf are also dumb, because they do not 
hear words spoken, and so do not learn to speak. By 
training a dumb child to watch carefully the shape and 
movements of the teacher's mouth when the latter is naming 
an object, he may learn to imitate these and so come to speak. 
If a child becomes deaf before he is six years old, he tends 
to forget the language he has learned and is in danger of 
becoming dumb. 

THE THEOAT. AFFECTIONS OF THE THROAT. 

On examining a child's mouth there can be seen the 
tongue, teeth, and gums in front, the hard/^late ^above, 
and at the back the soft palate spanning over the root of 
the tongue like a fleshy arch, and dipping down at its 
highest point in a little process called the uvula. On each 
side of the arch are the pillars of the throat, enclosing the 
tonsils. The tonsils are variable in size, and it is not at 
all uncommon to find about 30 per cent, of the children in 
a school with tonsils which practically meet in the middle 
line. Such schools are often situated in country places, 
but usually where the housing conditions are poor. 

The opening at the back of the mouth leads into a funnel- 
shaped cavity called the pharynx, The openings of the 



204 THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 

nose lead into the same cavity, but the part of it at the 
back of the nose is sometimes called the naso-pharynx. 
These cavities are lined with a smooth covering called 
mucous membrane. When healthy this membrane is 
smooth and shining, and a bright pink in colour. In this 
condition it can resist the attacks of disease germs, but 
when it is unhealthy, as shown by it becoming rough and 
red, or rough and abnormally pale, it offers an excellent 
breeding place for bacteria. The membrane is rapidly 
affected by impure air, and if the child continually breathes 
vitiated air the lining of the nose and throat are certain 
to be injured. Liability to take cold in the head is one of 
the early indications of an abnormal condition of these 
parts. 

ADENOIDS. 

From an educational point of view the most important 
condition for diagnosis in this region is the presence of 
adenoid growths. These are very common in children 
under 14 years. After that age they tend to dry up and 
disappear, but the injuries that they have caused are 
permanent. They are fleshy growths produced by hyper- 
trophy of the adenoid tissue which is so abundant in this 
neighbourhood, and are usually situated in the naso- 
pharynx, quite out of sight. To the finger thrust behind 
the palate they feel soft, pulpy, and velvety, " like a bag 
of earthworms." All classes of the community appear to 
be equally affected, and they are found about equally 
in the better class and the poorer schools. Heredity un- 
doubtedly plays some part in their appearance, and there 
is no doubt whatever that the number of the children 
affected by this condition is rapidly increasing in the 
schools. 



THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 205 

Effects of Adenoids. 

The effects of these growths, by which means they can 
usually be easily identified, are numerous, and are of great 
importance. The obstruction to the natural breathing 
process is accompanied with and followed by dulness, 
stupidity, peculiarities of appearance, expression, and 
speech, as well as characteristic deformities. These are 
fully discussed in Chapter IY. of Part III. 

SORE THBOATS. 

A sore throat is the common beginning of an attack of 
scarlet fever, measles, or diphtheria, as well as acute 
inflammation in that region, and quinsy. Of course it is 
quite possible that any sore throat may be a simple local 
inflammation that will rapidly subside, but that does not 
affect the rule that no child with a sore throat should be 
admitted to school under any circumstances. It should be 
remembered that it is quite impossible to distinguish a 
simple sore throat from a mild attack of diphtheria except 
by bacteriological methods, and the epidemics of mild sore 
throat that are quite common among school children are 
often mild diphtheria. The infection will be handed from 
one to another, keeping its mild characteristics for a time, 
but occasionally developing an extreme virulence and 
causing a number of deaths in rapid succession. An 
instructive case has just occurred in the writer's district. 
A boy attending school contracted a sore throat. Soon 
afterwards his mother and the servant also had mild sore 
throats. A week later the father was very ill with inflamed 
throat, and the doctor who was summoned pronounced this 
case to be typical severe diphtheria. The throats of the 
boy, the mother, and the servant were then examined 
bacteriologically, and were found to be swarming with 



THE BAB, THROAT, AND VOICE. 



diphtheria bacilli, although they had apparently quite 
recovered from the attack of " sore throat." 

A morbid and enlarged condition of the tonsils always 
offers a resting-place to bacteria. The germs of consump- 
tion, or tubercle bacilli, often gain their first foothold 
in the body either through the tonsils or bad teeth. The 
bacilli next invade the glands in the neighbourhood of the 
jaw and throat, and give rise to a great amount of 
suffering and disease. 

THE VOICE. 

At the bottom of the funnel-shaped pharynx the wind- 
pipe and the gullet pass respectively to the lungs and the 




JVasa/ passage- . 



Phar/m 



Oesophagus. . 



stomach. The windpipe is placed in front of the gullet. 
At the top part of the windpipe lies the larynx or voice-box. 



THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 



207 



The opening into the larynx lies at the root of the 
tongue ; this is known as the glottis, and over it there 
projects a valve-like flap, the epiglottis. The larynx 
consists of cartilages, various muscles, and ligaments. 
The cartilages are called the thyroid, the arytenoid, and 
the cricoid. The thyroid cartilage in front forms the 
projection in the neck called " Adam's apple." The vocal 
cords so called from their being concerned in the pro- 
duction of the voice are two bands of yellow elastic tissue 



-T. 





(1) (2) 

Fig. 86. 

THE CARTILAGES OP THE LARYNX. 

1. Seen from the front. 2. Seen from behind. 

A, Arytenoid Cartilage; C, Cricoid Cartilage ; E, Epiglottis ; H,Hyoid; T, Thyroid 

Cartilage. 

covered with mucous membrane, attached in front to the 
thyroid cartilage, and to the arytenoid cartilages behind 
Their free edges are directed upwards. The space between 
the cords is called the glottis and appears as a V-shaped 
chink when the vocal cords are at rest. During inspiration 
the cords move away from each other and the space 
widens, and during expiration the glottis becomes narrower. 
During the utterance of a sound they are brought closely 
together. These movements are produced by the muscles 
of the larynx. 



208 THE BAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 

Production of the Voice. 

The sound of the voice is produced by vibrations of 
the vocal cords. The note given out by a vibrating cord 
depends upon its length and its tension. The greater the 
tension or the shorter the cord the higher is the, note 
sounded. Conversely the note is lowered by lengthening 
the cord or decreasing the tension. Thus individuals with 
tenor voices have shorter cords than those with bass voices, 
and the vocal cords in men are longer than in women or 






A B c 

Fig. 87. 

POSITION OF THE VOCAL CORDS. 

A, during the emission of a high nole in singing ; B, during easy inhalation ; 
C, while taking a deep breath. The shaded part represents the space between 
the cords. 

boys. Length and tension influence the rate of vibration 
of the cords, and the " pitch " depends upon the rate of 
vibration. The cords are approximated where a high note 
is being made, and are separated during a low note. The 
range of the voice seldom exceeds two and a half octaves. 

The loudness or intensity of the voice depends upon the 
amplitude or range of vibratory movement, which in its 
turn depends upon the force of the expiratory blast. 

The quality or timbre of the voice depends upon the 
smoothness, elasticity, and thickness of the cords, as well 
as the form and size of the air passages, larynx, pharynx, 



THE BAB, THROAT, AND VOICE. 209 

and mouth, wliich act as resonating cavities. We distin- 
guish one voice from another, or the sound of the harp 
from that of the violin, by means of the quality of the 
notes. Adenoids, or any cause of obstruction in the nose, 
throat, or pharynx alters the quality of the voice. 

Production of Speech. 

It is possible to speak without using the vocal cords. 
When one speaks in whispers the slight sound produced 




Fig. 88. 
DIAGRAM SHOWING THE ACTION OP THE MUSCLES THAT ALTER THE POSITION AND 

TENSION OP THE VOCAL CORDS. 

A, Front of Thyroid Cartilage ; B, Vocal Cords ; C, Muscles which move the Ary- 
tenoid Cartilages (E) as on a pivot and so bring together the Vocal Cords and 
increase their tension ; D, Muscle that by its contraction pulls the Arytenoid 
Cartilages (E) nearer together and so approximates the cords also ; F, Muscles 
which move the Arytenoid Cartilages (E) as on a pivot and so separate the cords. 

by the air passing through the air passages is modified 
into speech by movements of the tongue and lips. In the 
same way ordinary speech is produced by modifying and 
modulating the sounds produced by the vibrating vocal 
cords. 

Vowel sounds are produced by varying the form of the 
cavity of the mouth and the shape of the opening. This 

SCH. HYO. 14 



210 THE BAB, THROAT, AND VOICE. 

is easily verified by producing the pure vowel sounds, A as 
in ay, E as in he, as in oh, Oo as in coo, and A as in ah. 
The consonants, with the exception of H, which is pro- 
nounced by increasing the expiratory force with which the 
vowel is spoken, are produced by closing, more or less, 
certain of the exits of the expiratory blast. Aspirates are 
pronounced by partly closing the outlet, so that the air 
rushes through with a hiss. Thus F, V, and W are pro- 
duced by partial closure with the lips, S, Z, L, Sch, and 





OO 



Fig. 89. 
THR POSITION OF LIPS AND TONGUE IN PRODUCING VOWKL SOUNDS. 

Th by the tongue and hard palate, and Ch by the tongue 
and soft palate. 

The " resonants " M and N are formed by sending the 
current of air through the nose, the lips being closed in the 
case of M, and applied to the palate to pronounce JV. 

The consonants B, P, T, D, K, G (hard) are called 
" explosives," because the mouth is first closed and then 
suddenly burst open. In the case of B and P the lips 
close the mouth ; for T and D the tongue is applied to the 
teeth or the front of the palate ; while for K and G (hard) 
the middle or back of the tongue is forced against the 
back of the palate. 



THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 211 

Care of the Voice. 

As puberty is reached the vocal organs enlarge and there 
is an alteration in the voice. This change occurs at about 
12 or 13 years in girls and 14 or 15 in boys, and is com- 
plete in one or two years. While the voice is " breaking " 
there should be no sustained vocal exercise. For clear 
articulation the manner of breathing is important. Chil- 
dren should be encouraged to use their abdominal muscles 
for respiration quite as much as those which raise the 
chest. Breaching by means of the abdominal muscles 
decreases the fatigue of a sustained use of the voice. To 
breathe properly in this way there must be no obstruction 
to the free movements of the diaphragm and the abdominal 
muscles. Tight lacing, tight belts, an overloaded stomach, 
or flatulence, all prevent the proper production of the 
voice. If the muscles of the neck are brought into visible 
play and the collar bones rise to a considerable extent, it 
is extremely likely that proper abdominal movements are 
impossible for one of the above reasons. 

Children should be taught to spea]t up and articulate 
clearly, and to use their natural voice when reading aloud. 
It is possible by habitual exercise to educate the voice so that 
continued speaking is not painful or injurious. 

STAMMERING. 

A common nervous affection, interfering with the proper 
enunciation of words, is stammering or .stuttering. This 
is much more common among boys than girls. As a 
result of a lack of proper coordination of the various acts 
involved in fluent speech these children exaggerate the 
movements concerned with articulation, and under-estimate 
the force of the expiratory blast necessary to produce the 



THE EAR, THROAT, AND VOICE. 

voice. The muscles of the tongue and lips (and some- 
times those of the neck and face as well) are over- 
stimulated and get out of control by being thrown into a 
condition of irregular spasm. Stammerers usually have 
no difficulty in singing, partly owing to the fact that the 
expiratory blast is stronger and the lips are not used so 
much as in speaking, and partly because the attention 
is diverted from the consideration of the possibility of 
stammering. 

For the successful treatment of such cases it is necessary 
to devote attention to the following points : 

1. Find out which letters give the greatest difficulty, and 
insist upon continuous practice with words and sentences 
containing these letters in large numbers. Vowel sounds 
usually give no difficulty because they are formed mainly 
in the larynx. The consonants are the difficulty, especially 
those in connection with which the pharynx plays no part, 
viz. P, F, Th, 8, 8h, T, K, 3, H, Oh, D, G (hard), the most 
difficult of all being the explosives B, P, T, D, K, G (hard). 

2. Insist upon the chin being raised and the chest being 
fully inflated before beginning to speak. All speaking should 
be performed with a full resonant voice. In bad cases 
the child may be encouraged to adopt a sing-song or 
intoning method of speech. 

3. In order to assist the acquirement of proper nervous 
control the child should be encouraged in every way to 
use the vocal apparatus continually. In many cases mimicry 
and teasing by other children have made the child lose 
all its confidence. 



CHAPTER V 



PERSONAL HYGIENE. 
CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD, 

CLOTHING. 

THE value of a material for clothing depends upon its 
non-conducting properties with regard to heat. By a good 
conductor of heat we mean a substance through which 
heat rapidly travels. In other words, if one part of a good 
conductor becomes warm, then the heat will rapidly spread 
over the whole of it. A bad conductor of heat, or a non- 
conductor, has the opposite properties, so that if one part 
of a non-conductor becomes heated, the heat spreads very 
slowly to the other parts. The application of this to 
clothing is easily understood when we remember that the 
temperature of the body is always about 98*6 F., while 
the external temperature rarely exceeds 90 F. in G-reat 
Britain. The temperature of the body is therefore higher 
than that of the surrounding air, and so the inside of our 
clothing will be warmer than the outside. Now if the 
clothing material is a good conductor of heat, the heat will 
rapidly pass from the inside to the outside, and on the 
outside it will be lost in warming the air in contact with it. 
On the other hand, if the material be a non-conductor, the 
heat will only very slowly pass to the outside and very 
little will be lost. 

213 



214 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

As a matter of fact the body loses heat in several ways, 
e.g. (1) By the skin. This is probably about 90 per cent, 
of the total loss. (2) By respiration, the expired air being 
warmer than the inspired air. Moreover, heat is lost by 
evaporation in the breath, the expired air being saturated 
with water vapour. (3) With the excreta. The first of 
these, the loss by the skin, is the only one that we can in 
any way control. 

The loss of heat by the skin takes place in three 
ways: 

1. By conduction, as we have explained above. This 

loss is very greatly augmented by wearing clothes 
made of a good conducting material. 

2. By radiation of the heat. The result of radiation is 

best illustrated by the warmth experienced when 
sitting near a bright fire. In this case the body 
receives the heat which is radiated from the fire. 
Similarly the body itself radiates heat. 

3. By evaporation. When the body is heated by exer- 

cise the surface of the skin becomes covered with 
moisture, which evaporates more or less rapidly 
according to the circumstances. In doing this it 
absorbs a large amount of heat from the body. 
It is at these times that the body is particularly 
liable to take a chill. The absorption of heat by 
evaporation is well illustrated by pouring a little 
spirit or ether on the hand, when a feeling of cold is 
experienced which is increased by blowing across 
the liquid. The loss of heat by the skin is greatly 
influenced by the weather. In hot weather very 
little heat is lost by conduction or radiation, but 
a large quantity is lost by evaporation. In cold 
weather this is reversed. 
The chief objects of clothing are (1) To prevent loss of 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 215 

heat. (2) To protect parts of the body that are especially 
liable to injury, e.g. the feet. (3) For ornament. The 
following rules should be observed with regard to cloth- 
ing 

(1) It should be light. If proper attention is paid to 
material, there is no need for heavy clothes. In fact light 
clothes made of a non-conducting material are much warmer 
than heavy clothes made of material which conducts heat 
well. 





Fig. 90. 

NATURAL THORAX. THORAX DKFORMKD BY CORSETS. 

(2) It should be loose. Every one knows how cold a 
pair of tight gloves are on a cold day. Air is a bad con- 
ductor of heat, and fluffy materials which contain much 
air in their interstices are far warmer than those which are 
closely woven. In the same way loosely fitting clothes are 
much warmer than those which fit tightly. Certain parts 
of the body are peculiarly liable to be constricted by 
clothing. For instance, the head is often surrounded with 
a tightly fitting hat which must press upon the blood vessels 



216 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 



and prevent the proper circulation of blood, thereby in- 
creasing the tendency to baldness. The neck is often 
constricted by a tight collar which interferes with the 
circulation and gives rise to headache. In women the 
lower part of the chest and the upper part of the abdomen 
are habitually constricted by corsets in order to produce 
the " waist." As a result of the constant pressure which 
is often begun at a very early age the ribs are perman- 
ently distorted and displaced inwards, causing compression 
and displacement of the lungs, heart, liver, stomach, and 




Fig. 



FOOT DKFOBMKD BY 
POINTED BOOTS. 




intestines. The natural waist is below the ribs and above 
the hips. 

The knee is often constricted with garters. The pressure 
here prevents the return of the blood through the veins, 
giving rise to varicose veins. The foot is almost always 
distorted by misshapen boots. In a properly made boot 
the great toe should be in a straight line with the inside of 
the foot, whereas it is usually bent towards the other toes 
in order to make the foot come to an unnatural point. 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 217 

In summing up we may say that tight clothes possess 
the following disadvantages: (a) They are less warm 
than loose clothes. (6) They are also less comfortable, and 
prevent the free movements of the limbs, (c) Any tight- 
ness across the chest will interfere with free respiration. 
(d) They are very liable to displace internal organs and 
produce various ill effects in different parts of the body. 

(3) It should be porous. If clothing is not porous it 
will interfere with the evaporation resulting from perspira- 
tion. For this reason waterproof materials should never 
be worn habitually. 

(4) It should be a bad conductor. The reason for this 
has already been explained. 

(5) The weight of the clothing should be mainly borne 
by the shoulders. Some of the weight may be thrown on 
the hips, but the waist should be relieved of the weight of 
clothes, in order to avoid displacement of the internal 
organs. 

An underclothing of flannel should be worn by all 
children. It is the worst conductor of heat, and so 
prevents any sudden change of temperature of the skin. 
It is also the best absorber and retainer of moisture. This 
underclothing should be worn by day throughout the year, 
but its consistency may be varied in winter and summer 
according to the temperature. It is just as important to 
remember that children may easily be overclothed. It is 
by no means uncommon to find several layers of flannel 
(even four or six) on some children. The result is that 
their skin becomes excessively sensitive and delicate, is 
never dry, and loses its power of reaction when chilled. 
Such children are continually catching cold, and are 
subject to all kinds of ailments. 

Many parents at present fail to recognise any disgrace 
in sending children to school with torn and dirty clothes. 



218 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

It is by no means a question of poverty only ; in fact the 
worst instances of child neglect that the writer has met 
have come from homes where the father is earning plenty 
of money to keep his home decent and his children 
respectable, but the mother is either drunken or grossly 
incapable, or both. If the kind of sewing taught during 
the last thirty years in our elementary schools is ever to 
bear fruit, surely it is time now for it to appear. What 
these people require is to be taught to patch their clothes 
and to darn their stockings, and there is no reason why 
this should not be done in school, instead of wasting these 
children's time with fancy work. Another important point 
is to educate the popular taste towards hygienic, neat, 
durable garments, instead of torn soiled cheap finery that 
so often forms the ideal of dress among this unfortunate 
class. 

Intimately associated with the dress of children attend- 
ing primary schools, and with their squalor, filth, and 
untidiness, is that vile institution the pawnshop. Any 
decent apparel possessed by the children is regarded, and is 
used, as a kind of floating capital, and many of them out- 
grow a good garment before they have had the chance of 
wearing it out. To the pawnshop largely should also be 
attributed the sinking of the individual and the spread of 
disease and vermin, and until pawnshops are put down 
and a regular school uniform made compulsory, a great 
battle will have to be waged against untidiness, rags, and 
dirt in children. 

All children in attendance at an elementary school should 
be required to wear some simple, neat, hygienic dress. 
This would not only be a great advance from a hygienic 
point of view, but would also be economical and becoming. 
As things are at present the clothing of a large proportion 
of the children can only be described as a miscellaneous 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : POOD. 219 

collection of rags. The atmospliere of an elementary school 
on a wet morning is usually sickening. The woollen 
clothes have been worn for months or years, are perspira- 
tion-soaked, and reek with unhealthy miasm. These 
exhalations continue until the clothes are dry. It has been 
suggested that " a school uniform should be kept at the 
school for each scholar, and the children would change 
their out-of -school attire on reaching the cloak-room. 
Here any wet garments could be thoroughly dried. The 
uniform might be quite simple and light ; it should consist 
of linen in summer, of woollen in winter, and should be 
provided by the parents as a part of the school outfit, 
unless they are absolutely poor, in which case the State 
should provide it." 

Boys should wear a flannel vest and a simple blouse 
or woollen jersey, fitting loosely, and the material varying 
according to the season. The knickerbockers should be 
suspended round the hips, and if these fit properly above 
the thigh bones with an elastic band there will be no need 
for braces. The girls should wear a flannel chemise, blue 
serge knickerbockers fitted upon the thigh bones with an 
elastic band, and no stays, or any substitute for stays, of 
any kind. Next there should be a woollen jersey (or a 
cotton blouse in summer), and an overdress with shoulder 
straps fastened into the waist. In summer the children 
require no head covering. 

If some simple dress as the above could be universally 
adopted what a revolution would take place in the appear- 
ance, comfort, and health of our schools ! The children 
would gain self-respect, and the whole tone of the schools 
would be altered. 

The boots of children, in our climate, are important 
articles of clothing during more than half the year, Care- 
ful attention to the fitting of boots and shoes during 



220 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

chiMhood will save a lot of trouble in after life. Children 
should be taught that it is a sign of weakmindedness to 
wear boots that are too tight, or that hurt the feet in any 
way. Unfortunately a majority of the children in our 
elementary schools have no choice, and are compelled' to 
wear anything that comes to hand. If they do get a pair 
of good boots they rarely wear them, because the inevitable 
pawnshop has intervened. Proper boots should be of suf- 
ficient length and breadth, should be practically straight 
along the inner edge in order to prevent distortion of the 
great too, and should have low broad heels. Shoes are 
far better than boots. Dry boots, and warm woollen 
socks or stockings never cotton are requisite for the 
preservation of health. 

Clothing for Games . 

The boys should be encouraged to obtain special clothes 
for the games, both on the ground of economy and health. 
A loose flannel shirt and a short loose pair of knickers are 
all that are required (except for Rugby football, which 
requires a tight woollen jersey). Immediately after the 
game these clothes must be changed again, and the playing 
clothes carefully dried. The wearing of any tight band or 
belt round the waist should be discouraged, as it greatly 
increases the possibility of a " rupture." This should be 
definitely taught the boys, as the popular belief is to the 
contrary. If no tight belts and no corsets were worn the 
number of ruptures would be decreased by more than fifty 
per cent. 

HABITS. 

Habits are formed and deep impressions made very early 
in life. Children are singularly imitative, and school 
impressions are often of lifelong endurance. The teacher 



CJLOTHINO : CJLEANLlNESS : fEETfi : SLEEP : FOOD, 221 

should therefore be an example of personal cleanliness and 
neatness, with hair, linen, and finger nails neat and beyond 
reproach. The children should be directly encouraged to 
be neat and clean, and no capable teacher will submit to 
teach children in a room with dirty floors and dim, closed 
windows. 

Definite direct instruction, preferably distinct and apart 
from the teaching of any scientific details and reasons, 
should be given to all children concerning the care of the 
teeth, cleanliness of the skin, regularity in the action of 
the bowels, sufficient sleep, and the avoidance of such bad 
habits as spitting. 

Parents constantly neglect to teach their children that the 
daily regular action of the bowels is a necessity for health, 
and that absolute regularity can only be ensured by keeping 
to the same hour (best just before or just after breakfast) 
each day. If children were only reared with such habits 
the necessity for aperients would disappear, and many of 
the intestinal disturbances so common among town children 
would disappear. Teachers should instil this thoroughly 
into the minds of the children, and explain that to 
allow refuse to accumulate inside the body, which it does 
if not removed daily, will cause it to putrefy and poison 
the whole system. In fact such a practice should be 
regarded as a mark of personal uncleanliness. Sir Lauder 
Brunton has well said, "As a rule, people are now 
fully alive to the risks they run from poisoning by 
sewer gas, or, to put it more widely, from poisoning by 
products of decomposition outside the body ; but perhaps 
we do not all of us keep so clearly before us as we 
ought the fact that inside the laody there are all the 
conditions for the formation of putrefactive products, 
and the most favourable arrangement for their rapid 
absorption." 



222 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : POOD. 

One of the most objectionable of the early acquired habits 
is that of spitting. The children should be taught that, 
apart from the filthiness of it, there is considerable risk 
of thereby spreading disease, so that it is to everyone's 
advantage to assist in suppressing the habit. The dual 
lesson of self-control and duty to one's neighbour should 
be taught. It is extremely likely that in the schools we 
have the primary source of infection of a vast number of 
consumptives, and there is no doubt that here there are the 
most promising possibilities of prevention. This dreadful 
disease is discussed elsewhere and other means are men- 
tioned which ought to be employed to cope with the 
scourge, but it is evident that the responsibility rests with 
the school authorities not only to prevent already infected 
children becoming a source of infection to others, but also 
to give all children definite instruction with regard to the 
prevention of the disease. 

Many teachers will find it very interesting to experi- 
ment with some left-hand exercises for the children. The 
formation of the right-hand habit leads to unequal develop- 
ment of nerves and muscles. It is therefore much to be 
desired that children should be encouraged to practise 
exercises of all kinds with the left hand as well as the 
right. Occasional practice in writing with the left hand 
is beneficial. Some people find that a few minutes' writing 
with the left hand will relieve the nervous tension and 
headache set up by overwork and study. 



PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

The test of the cleanliness of the children in our elemen- 
tary schools is the condition of their heads. The condition 
of the hair and scalp of the girls is usually infinitely worse 



CLOTHING . CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 223 

than the boys'. It should be compulsory that the hair of 
all the children be cropped short. In France and other 
countries such a cropping* of hair in the elementary schools 
is universal. The cleaner the parents are the more energeti- 
cally they should support such a suggestion, because it 
would help to prevent their children being contaminated 
"by dirty schoolmates. 

"Dirt and neglect constitute two of the primary evils of 
child life. Much of the disease and injury to health is 
the result of personal uncleanliiiess. Defects of vision, 
ulcerated corneas, inflamed eyelids, and other conditions 
are often the direct results of dirtiness, while wounds and 
sores, chilblains and discharging ears are aggravated by 
such conditions. 

Unclean heads are unfortunately only too common in 
our schools. It is nothing short of a public scandal that 
most large towns are taking no steps to prevent this. 
Under the present conditions it is almost impossible for a 
clean child to attend our public elementary schools without 
being infected with parasites OIL the scalp. It should be 
the duty of the education authority to insist upon clean 
heads among the children attending school. The follow- 
ing is Dr. Kerr's scheme adopted by the London County 
Council : 

"The nurses visit the schools and select all children 
with unclean heads. A card, enclosed in a sealed envelope, 
with a part easily separated (line of perforation) is given to 
each child to take home. 

" The card has on it simple directions for treatment and a 
statement that children not treated after a few days will 
be separated from the others. The parent is requested to 
read the instructions and sign and return the attached 
portion, or the child will be separated from the other 
children forthwith. 



224 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

" On the front of the card there is printed : 

Private Notice. 

Your attention is drawn to the condition of this child's head, 
which has been noticed in school. The school nurse has examined 
it and states that by attention to the directions given on the other 
side it can be rendered permanently clean within a week. If cleans- 
ing is not effected by that time the child will have to be kept 
separated from the others in school until the unclean condition is 
remedied. 

" On the back of the card : 

Instructions for Cleansing Heads. 

Where there are sore places, scabs, or enlarged glands, these will 
generally get better on removing all lice and nits. 

It is possible to effect a cure in about a week. 

All hairs with nits and all hair within a quarter of an inch of a 
sore must be cut off. 

The head must be^washed and scrubbed daily with paraffin oil, to 
which an equal quantity of olive oil may be added. If there are 
scabs, these when softened should be removed. 

Repeat this treatment daily for a week, then weekly till all signs 
of lice are gone. 

Where there is difficulty in keeping a child's head clean the hair 
should be worn cut short. 

Iron the collar of the clothes with a hot iron. 

CaiUion. Do not use paraffin near a fire or naked light. 

" The attached portion reads : 

I have read instructions on the back of the card and will endeavour 

during the ensuing week to get into a healthy and clean 

condition. 

Signed 

" At the end of a week from the nurse's first visit all cases 
not treated or not returning the card are separated from the 
other children, and cases not returning the card signed by 
the parent have a home visit by the nurse ; if at the nurse's 
fourth school visit no attempt at treatment has been made, 
the case is notified to the School Attendance Officer, and a 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 225 

second card left at the house by him on which the treat- 
ment is again set forth, the failure to adopt remedy pointed 
out, and a statement that if at the end of a week (nurse's 
sixth visit) the child has not had treatment it will be 
excluded from the school, and that the parents or guardians 
will be liable to immediate prosecution. The Medical 
Officer visits the school and personally examines these chil- 
dren, as far as possible, at or between the nurse's fourth 
or sixth visit. 

" On the front of the second card there is printed : 
Second Warning. To the Parents or Guardians of . 

A Private Notice regarding the condition of this child's head 
having been sent you, and as this condition, which could be 
remedied in a week, is still allowed to persist, the child has now 
been separated in school as unfit to be in the ordinary class. You 
are required to take steps to cleanse its head within the next week, 
failing which the child will be excluded from school and you will 
be liable to prosecution and fine for riot sending it in a fit state to 
school. The means for cleansing these heads is given on the other 
side of this card. 

" On the back of the second card the instructions on the 
first card are repeated. 

" By the end of three weeks the habitual offenders are 
weeded out for prosecution, and the others have been 
cleansed. The whole treatment was much resented by 
many mothers, but with tact and patient explanation their 
good sense asserted itself and few children remained 
unclean." 

The results of this scheme in eight of the schools are as 
follows : 

Depart- Number First Second Partly Proposed 

ment. Examined. Clean. Verminous. Notice. Notice. Cleansed, for Ex- 
clusion. 

Boys 2492 2450 42 22 2 2 
Girls 2422 1355 1067 740 183 163 15 
Infants 2593 2207 386 269 55 99 4 

SCH. HYGK 15 



226 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : POOD. 

Probably most towns and districts have found it pos- 
sible to arrange similar schemes without employing any 
nurses at all, or at all events without allowing the nurses 
to play quite so prominent a part as they appear to do 
under the London County Council schemes. The author's 
experience is that the average teacher is quite as skilful 
and probably at least as intelligent as the average nurse. 
In most schools there are some members of the staff who 
have made a special study of the hygiene of child life. 
For a great deal of the work the employment of such 
teachers will be more economical and quite as effective as 
the employment of nurses. 

The plan adopted by the author for the cleansing of 
heads of children from vermin is to instruct the parents 
to give the child on the first night a hot bath, using 
plenty of soap, and paying particular attention to the 
thorough cleansing of the scalp and hair. Paraffin oil 
is then thoroughly rubbed over the hair and scalp, after 
careful, drying. This treatment is repeated on each of 
the two successive evenings, i.e. the scalp and hair are 
thoroughly soaped, washed, and dried, and then paraffin 
rubbed on. These three applications result in a complete 
cure in practically every case. 

Yerminous heads are comparatively rare among the 
shorter-haired boys, while about one in three or four girls 
is usually found to need attention in this respect. In 
many cases the clothing and body are badly infected, and 
vermin are to be found in every seam and clinging to the 
skin. A great source of the spread of vermin is second- 
hand clothing and the pawnshop. The houses from which 
such children come are usually infected in the same way. 
If only the home could be disinfected and cleansed a 
splendid work would be carried out. 

In all towns the children attending schools in the poorer 






CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 227 

districts are nearly all more or less infected with vermin. 
This should at once receive the attention of all education 
authorities, as the bodily cleanliness of the children should 
be regarded as the essential commencement of all school 
hygiene. 

" There are among the teachers a few, excellent and 
enlightened, who give practical teaching ; who insist in 
every possible case upon the children wearing collars and 
pinafores ; who insist on tidy hair and clean faces. But 
unfortunately some are easily discouraged, for it is uphill 
work, and what they do is often done during their well- 
earned leisure." 

All teachers should insist upon each child appearing with 
clean face and hands. If they fail to do this they should be 
obliged to wash in the school lavatories. The quantity of 
towels supplied in most school lavatories is grossly in- 
sufficient. 

The problem of the personal cleanliness of the children 
can only be satisfactorily solved by the provision of school 
baths. These are neither costly to provide nor to maintain, 
and the real difficulty is not the trivial expense, but whether 
all responsibility in this direction should be removed from 
the parent, and also who is to superintend the bathing. 
Professor Shaw quotes an excellent plan adopted in a school 
in Chicago. A bath, soap, towels, and hot and cold water 
were all provided. " Pupils who came to school unclean 
were sent to the principal, and the principal sent for the 
parent, usually the mother, and talked with her of the child's 
condition, explaining to her what was necessary, and then 
asked her to use the facilities provided and render the pupil 
fit to take his or her place in the class. This plan in its effect 
upon the district had proved, it is claimed, most salutary. 
It gave the parents an object-lesson in cleanliness ; it height- 
ened their appreciation of its necessity ; and in the best way 



228 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

the school reacted upon the homes of a certain part of the 
population without taking upon itself the duties which 
belong to the home." 

The provision of baths for schools is essential for the 
purpose of educating certain portions of the community in 
bodily cleanliness. The institution of school baths and 
more or less compulsory cleaning is followed by an increase 
in the self-respect, an improvement in discipline, cleaner 
clothing, and the formation of habits which cling to the 
child for life. 

In Berlin there are many schools with baths. A bath is 
allowed each scholar once a week, and it usually takes five 
minutes. Bathing is not compulsory. Similarly at Zurich, 
In a Boston school of 800 children 125 are bathed daily, 
and the children have a bath once a week throughout the 
year. There is no compulsion, but practically every scholar 
welcomes the bath. A matron has charge of the girls' 
baths, and a man looks after the boys'. 

CAEE OF THE TEETH. 

Intimately associated with the general cleanliness of the 
body, as well as the early formation of good habits, is the 
care of the teeth. 





Incisor Canine Bicuspid Molar 

Fig. 92. 



KINDS OP TEETH. 



The teeth are divided into four classes according to their 
shape. In front are the incisors the flat sharp-edged 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 229 




Fig. 93. 

MILK TEETH (upper or 
lower jaw). 



biting teeth. The long narrow fang-like teeth at each 

side of the incisors are called canines. Still further along 

the jaw are teeth which seem to be partly split into two at 

the top these are the bicuspids. 

The molars are the broad-topped 

grinding teeth which are placed 

at the back. 

There are two sets of teeth, 

the first set or the temporary 

teeth, and the second set which 

are more or less permanent. The 

first set are called the milk teeth. 

They are twenty in number, and 

consist of eight incisors, four canines, and eightjrnolars ; 

each half of each jaw being provided with two incisors, 

one canine, and two 
molars. This set 
is usually complete 
at three years. 
They begin to drop 
out about the 
seventh year, and 
hav e all gone at 
twelve. By the 
fourteenth year all 



Fig. 94. 

PERMANENT TEETH (upper or lower jaw) . 




Q 
? ^^ \ have appeared ex- 

cept the last four 
molars, called the 
wisdom teeth. 
These may not be cut until the twenty-fifth year. 

The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, and are 
divided into eight incisors, four canines, eight bicuspids, 
and twelve molars. At about fourteen years there would 



230 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

be twenty-eight teeth, the last four molars not being cut at 
this age. 

Structure of a Tooth. 

Each tooth consists of a crown, or the part showing 
above the gum, and the root, or the part imbedded in the 
jawbone. The root consists of one or more fangs. A 
slight constriction is visible at the line where the crown 
and the root meet ; this is called the neck. The main body 

of a tooth is 
Enamel , , 

made or a sub- 
stance called 
dentine which 
closely re- 
sembles bone 
in its structure 
and composi- 
tion. Covering 
the crown of 
the tooth is a 
layer of ex- 
tremely hard 
material called 



Fig. 95. 




Cement 

diners from 

ordinary bone 
by containing 
a much smaller percentage of animal matter. For this 
reason the enamel rarely or never decays; but when it 
gets chipped off, decay at once attacks the softer dentine. 
The fang of the tooth is covered by a bony layer called 
cement which fixes the fang securely in its socket. 

In the body of the tooth is a cavity which is filled with 
a. pulpy substance containing nerves and blood-vessels. 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 231 

These enter the tooth at the tip of each fang, and pass into 
he pulp cavity. Ordinary toothache is caused by the 
inflammation of this pulp in the tooth. 

The question of children's teeth constitutes one of the 
most vexing and hopeless problems of child hygiene. 
Moreover it is a subject intimately associated with the 
national physique, and of the utmost importance to the 
well-being of the race. In spite of this, however, there is 
general public apathy 011 the subject, compared with the 
attention that is being devoted to the examination of the 
children's eyes and ears. The ophthalmic surgeon appears 
at the present time to constitute " the be all and the end 
all " of the child's necessities, but it is to be hoped that a 
broader view of the subject may soon be taken. The Com- 
mittee of the British Dental Association found that among 
the children of the average age of 12 years in attendance 
at elementary schools there were more than 85 per cent, 
showing signs of decay of the teeth. The following is 
the table presented by them : 

TABLE showing the results of an examination of the 
mouths of 10,517 boys and girls in English and 
Scotch Schools, with an average age of about 12 years. 
Number of children examined ... ... 10,517 

Temporary teeth requiring filling ... 9,573 \ 
Temporary teeth requiring extraction 8,436 ) ' 
Permanent teeth requiring filling ... 13,017 | 
Permanent teeth requiring extraction ... 6,079 ) ' 9 

Total unsound teeth 37,105 

Teeth already extracted 2,174 

Sets of teeth free from decay 1,508 = 14' 2 per cent. 

An examination of ancient skulls shows that caries or 
decay of the teeth was formerly almost entirely absent, 



232 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

and it is also an undoubted fact that it is now rapidly- 
increasing. 

The attitude of the lower classes towards the subject 
can only be compared to a, kind of Oriental fatalism. A 
decayed tooth is regarded as one of the unpreventable 
dispensations of Providence, and it is ignored until the 
pain can no longer be tolerated, when it is hauled out by 
some more or less competent individual. Then they wait 
for the next to come on. At an early age the whole of the 
working teeth are often gone or are useless. The result is 
that the food cannot be chewed properly, and the digestion 
is upset. Dyspepsia with all its attendant evils follows, 
and the constitution of the individual rapidly deteriorates. 
Unfortunately these are not the only results. While 
decay is going on the condition of the mouth cannot be 
otherwise than foul and unhealthy, and the gums, throat, 
and tonsils are affected. "Undoubtedly there is thus 
produced an increased tendency to such diseases as 
diphtheria, pneumonia, and rheumatic fever. In such a 
mouth bacterial life flourishes to an unimaginable extent, 
and it is no difficult task to isolate a hundred different 
varieties of organisms and a large number of each breed. 
Septic and purulent material is formed in large quantities 
and is swallowed, causing serious disorders of the intestinal 
tract, and is said to be one of the causes of pernicious 
anaemia. 

In addition to all this there is pain of a most wearing 
and aggravating character, and the breath is foul and 
infectious. Such an individual " pollutes the air that is 
breathed and contaminates the food that is swallowed." 
To carefully ventilate schools and to provide good whole- 
some food is a waste of money under such circumstances. 
The nutrition of such a child must be defective, and its 
growth is inevitably stunted. Among the more remote 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 233 

effects of bad teetli are the enlarged and suppurating glands 
in the neck, diseases of the jawbones and accessory cavities, 
and cancer of the tongue. 

Causes of Decay. 

The causes of decay of the teeth, like those of all 
diseases, are best classified into the predisposing and the 
determining. The predisposing causes include heredity, 
malnutrition, and acute illness. Heredity is important so 
far as it provides the child with a good or a poor material 
for its teeth. If the teeth are soft and friable, then when 
caries is established they will disappear rapidly. Also 
greater care will be necessary to prevent decay commen- 
cing in such teeth. As illustrating the effect of heredity it 
may be mentioned that Jewish children, as a rule, show 
less decay of teeth than the Gentiles. Dr. W. Hall, of 
Leeds, obtained the following figures : 

In good class Jewish school 11 per cent. \ 
Gentile 38 / had 

In poor class Jewish school 25 per cent, i d( f e< ?* lve 

n *-i *A 1 teeth. 

Gentile 60 , / 



Probably the fact that nearly all the Jewish women 
suckle their children largely accounts for the differences. 

Malnutrition is another important predisposing cause of 
caries. The improper feeding in infancy on patent foods, 
instead of milk, has a most injurious effect upon the teeth. 
The poorer the class of school, and the more neglected and 
underfed the children are, the greater is the percentage of 
children with bad teeth. 

The nutrition of the teeth during development is 
arrested, for the time being, during an acute illness. The 



234 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

time of the illness will be marked on the teeth by a line, 
just as the nails become similarly marked. 

The determining cause of decay of the teeth is composed 
of two factors the presence of bacteria and the formation 
of an acid medium. Bacteria in the mouth have already 
been referred to. From our point of view there are three 
chief kinds those which attack and destroy the teeth, 
those which produce disease, not only of the mouth, but 
of other organs, and those which produce fermentation. 
Those micro-organisms which attack the teeth can only do 
so when they are surrounded by an acid medium. Now 
the natural condition of the mouth is to be alkaline, but 
acid is produced when particles of food are left in the 
mouth and allowed to ferment. Fermentation produces an 
acid in the mouth just like it does in milk. If milk is 
kept too long without special precautions we say it has 
gone sour. Fermentation has gone on which has produced 
an acid, and this acid gives the sour taste. So in the 
mouth the food left between the teeth and round the gums 
will ferment and produce an acid, thereby affording the 
necessary opportunity for the bacteria to attack the teeth 
and cause decay. 

Prevention. 

The method of prevention now becomes almost obvious. 
If all particles of food are removed from the mouth there 
will be no acid produced and no decay. This simply 
amounts to regular and thorough cleaning of the teeth 
and mouth. The teeth should be cleaned every night. 
Just before bedtime is best because if any particles of food 
are left during the night the bacteria causing fermentation 
will have an undisturbed time of it, and a good deal of 
Damage may be produced. A stiff brush should be used 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 235 

and the teeth and gums thoroughly scrubbed. Some 
simple tooth powder should be used ; one of the best is 
carbonate of soda, another good one is powdered borax, 
and if the use of this is combined with some mildly 
antiseptic mouth wash, such as a very dilute solution of 
carbolic acid, there will be produced not only an appearance 
but also such a sense of cleanliness of the mouth and 
throat as, once acquired, will be parted with very reluc- 
tantly. 

Surely a good case has been made out for the introduction 
of the separate tooth-brush at school for each child, and 
the daily performance of what will probably be known as 
tooth-brush drill. I have no hesitation whatever in 
saying that it will be the very best and most beneficial 
drill that has ever been introduced into schools. The 
small expense that it would entail would prove an 
excellent investment, as it would undoubtedly have an 
immediate effect upon one of the most active causes of 
deterioration of physique. Since the above was written 
a notice has appeared in the daily press to the effect 
that Mr. Cadbury was about to introduce the use of the 
tooth-brush into the public elementary school at Bourn- 
ville. It is impossible to overestimate the value of 
such an advance in school hygiene. 

Of course a good deal can be done by proper direct 
practical instruction on the subject. The children should 
be taught the importance of saving their teeth, and the 
simple methods that will effect this. This instruction 
should be given in the infant schools and in every stan- 
dard, so that there should be no danger of the subject 
being looked upon as limited to some special year's work 
and being subsequently forgotten. It is important to 
remember that the first teeth must be brushed and 
cleaned regularly. Many people fail to understand that 



236 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : BLEEP : FOOD. 

a carious milk tooth will cause the permanent tooth to 
become carious also. There should also be regular 
inspection of the teeth of the children, and efforts made 
to get any defects remedied. 



SLEEP. 

Most town children suffer from an insufficient time for 
sleep. The results upon the organism of the child are 
most disastrous, both physically and mentally. To cut 
down a child's sleep is as cruel as to deprive him of food. 
Dr. Dukes gives the following amounts of sleep at different 





Age. 


Number of hours. 




Time. 




Under 6 vears 


13 


6 


p.m. to 7 


a.m 




j 
7 




6.30 


7 


PI 





8 


12 


7 


,, 7 


n 




9 


1H 


730 


7 







10 


11 


8 


7 








13 


lot 


8.30 


7 








15 


10 


9 


,. 7 


,, 





17 


9 


9.30 


7 


if 


n 


19 


9 


10 


,, ,, 7 


n 



These amounts should certainly be taken as minima, and 
probably they should be increased so as to give the child 
of thirteen a rest of twelve hours. 

Not only should the amount of sleep be graduated 
according to the age of the child, but also the hours of 
work. In practically all schools the younger children do 
far too much mental work, and get a totally inadequate 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 237 



amount of sleep, so that if it were not for the long holidays 
that succeed the terms of work most children would be 
seriously handicapped for life. The vacations save a 
complete breakdown. Dr. Dukes gives the following 
table: 

THE Hours of Work and Sleep adapted to the various ages 
of children. 



From 



Ages. 
to 



Nursery 



Infant School 



Primary School 



r'From 14 to 16 

Secondary School) -^g " -^ 

and University j " " 

,, iy ,, zi 

21 23 



tf 


1 


2 


,, 


2 


3 


' From 


3 


to 4 


I 


4 


,, 5 


/'From 


5 


to 6 





6 


7 


,, 


7 


8 


, 


8 


9 





9 


,,10 





10 


,,12 





12 


,,14 



Hours of Hours of 
Work. Sleep. 

... 20 





18 





17 





16 





15 





14 


1 


131. 


H ... 


13 


2" 


121 



12 

HI 
11 

10* 
10 

9 2 
8 2 



Many of the mental breakdowns that are so common 
among young students would not occur if during their 
childhood and boyhood an extra allowance of sleep 
had been given. At the recent meetings of the British 



238 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

Association at York Dr. Acland exhibited a chart from which 
it seemed that, whereas in some schools small boys get ten 
hours sleep, in other schools boys of the same age get only 
7f hours, and he quoted the testimony of the headmaster 
of a well-known preparatory school to the effect that more 
sleep for the boys had been attended by indubitable success, 
and all that had been done was to change the breakfast 
hour from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. Then Dr. Acland gave his own 
experience of a boy who came under his notice, and he 
threw upon the screen specimens of the boy's writing when 
he entered the school. Soon, however, a change came over 
the boy's caligraphy. It was more careless and slipshod in 
style, words were written wrongly, and then corrected, and 
in some cases he had actually scored out words that were 
spelt correctly and had inserted the same spelling over 
again. On Dr. Acland's advice the boy was given more 
rest, and the result was at once seen in clear handwriting, 
which as nearly as possible resembled his "fist" when he 
entered the school. 

Children as a rule require at least as long a period of rest 
as they have of work and play, for most of their growth 
takes place in bed, and therefore to stint ohem of sleep 
is to hinder their development. A common fallacy is that 
physical exercise acts as a compensation for long hours of 
mental application. Nothing could be more mischievous 
in its results. It is perfectly true that mental fatigue is 
prevented to some extent by intervals of physical recreation, 
but the only true rest to the body and mind is obtained by 
sleep. "There is no ground for supposing," says Dr. 
Acland, "that hard physical exercise is a sufficient com- 
pensation for hard brain work, but on the contrary it 
should be followed by an increased amount of rest." 
Children appear to need more sleep in winter than in 
summer. The most effective part of the night's sleep is 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 239 

during the first hours, and in order to get the best results 
it is important that the children should not have any hard 
mental work just before going to bed. 

According to Dr. Clouston there is a decreasing degree 
of staying power manifest during the last thirty years, i.e. 
since the Education Act of 1870, on the part of the brain 
to the extent of about 40 per cent. It is a question for us 
all to consider what share, if any, schools have in this 
terrible fact, with their excessive hours of work in the 
early years of childhood, and the inadequate amount of 
sleep during the same period of life. 



FOOD. 

The uses of food for adults are (1) to keep up the 
heat of the body ; (2) to supply the energy for internal 
work such as respiration, heart beat, brain work, and the 
work done by the different organs, and external work such 
as running, walking, and talking ; (3) to make good any 
loss, and replace decayed tissues. In addition to these 
uses the food of children has to provide material for their 
growth. 

Food can be regarded as composed of two chief materials ; 
the one kind is used by the body in producing heat and 
energy, and the other kind goes to form the growing body 
of the child and to renew and repair the various tissues and 
organs. Fats, starches, and sugars are burned up in the 
body and heat and energy result, while such foods as the 
lean of meat, fish, the white of eggs, the greater part of 
cheese, and a considerable proportion of such foods as milk, 
oatmeal, bread, peas, beans, and lentils serves to produce 
actual body tissue and repair any worn out parts. 

The food of children should contain some tissue-forming 



240 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : BLEEP : FOOD. 

material, as well as fats, sugars or starches, and some 
vegetables or fruit. The following table will give some 
idea as to the relative quantities of these materials that 
common foods contain. 



RELATIVE PROPORTIONS. 



Food. 


Tissue- 
forming. 


Force-producing. 


Fats. 


Starch or Sugar. 


Milk 


37 


29 


34 


Oatmeal 


16 


7 


77 


Bread 


13 


2i 


84J 


Butter 


2* 


97| 





Bacon 


11 


89 





Meat 


70 


30 





Cheese 


50 


49 


1 


Fish (herrings) 


55 


45 


. . 


Lentils 


29 


2 


69 


Peas ... 


24 


2 


74 


Rice 


6 




94 



Fats are particularly valuable foods for children, but the 
average child among the poor classes has far too little fat 
provided in the food. This lack of fat in the diet during 
early life undoubtedly predisposes to consumption and ill 
development. The great desire for sweet things, possessed 
by most children, is probably a manifestation of the 
physiological need of the body for sugar. Tissue-forming 
foods, on account of their expense, are often lacking, the 
result of which is deficient physical and mental develop- 
ment. If tissue-forming materials, fats, starches or sugars, 
and vegetables or fruits are not all represented in the diet, 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : POOD. 241 

or are there in improper proportions, or are deficient in 
quantity, the child cannot develop as it should do. If the 
diet is deficient lie nutrition of the body is more or less 
arrested ; if the diet is ill-balanced but abundant the nu- 
trition is perverted. Scurvy, rickets, and anaemia are all 
nutritional diseases. 

To try to educate underfed children is not only wasteful 
of the teacher's energy, but is also cruel to the child because 
deterioration of physique is promoted by exhausting the 
enfeebled nervous system. Such a child's mental apparatus 
is not in a condition fit for work. If work is insisted upon, 
then the nervous system is speedily exhausted and all sorts 
of evils result. The limits of educational possibility are 
primarily determined by the food supply available. It is 
impossible to properly educate an ill-fed child, and if 
education is attempted the effect upon the physical and 
mental health of the child is disastrous. 

In the report of the Royal Commission occur these 
sentences : 

" We consider that the question of the proper and suffi- 
cient feeding of children is one which has the closest 
possible connection with any scheme which may be adopted 
for their physical and equally for their mental work. It is 
evident that among the causes which tell against the 
physical welfare of the population, the lack of proper 
nourishment is one of the most serious. The subject 
demands special notice, not only as regards the existing 
state of affairs, but still more in view of any increase of 
physical training throughout the State-aided schools which 
may commend itself. 

" We are aware of the danger of further encroaching upon 

the independence of parents, and of entering upon the 

wide question of how far the State should go in relieving 

them of their primary responsibility. But we are not OP 

SCH. HYQ. 16 



242 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

that account deterred from calling attention to the neces- 
sity for better feeding, which, in our opinion, has been 
fully demonstrated, nor from considering a practical 
remedy. We have no desire to give encouragement to 
any inclination of the parent to abandon any of his duties 
and responsibilities in regard to the feeding and clothing 
of his children; but it must be remembered that, with 
every desire to act up to their parental responsibility, and 
while quite ready to contribute in proportion to their 
power, there are often impediments in the way of the home 
provision of suitable food by the parents. The proper 
selection, cooking, and preparation may often be matters 
of serious difficulty to many parents. It would be in many 
cases an inestimable advantage could regular and sufficient 
meals such as broth, porridge and milk, or bread and 
milk be provided at a minimum cost. The preparation 
and cooking of these meals, where it is found necessary to 
provide them, ought to be regarded as one of the charges 
incident to school management. 

"In like manner we think that an obligation for the 
proper supervision of the feeding of those who come for 
instruction should be regarded as one of the duties of 
school authorities, and that teachers should be instructed 
to take note of all children apparently ill fed. Unless 
children receive sufficient nourishment, they cannot be 
expected to profit by the mental or physical training pro- 
vided for them." 

As an initial effort the mere provision of a glass of good 
milk during the morning and also the afternoon school 
would produce a most gratifying effect upon the underfed 
scholars. 

The report of the Inter-departinental Committee ap- 
pointed on March 14th, 1905, contains a number of details 
with regard to schemes which have been instituted in 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 243 

various towns for the feeding of children attending public 
elementary schools, and concludes with a summary of 
recommendations for better organisation. The scope of 
these recommendations is limited by the statement that 
they are to be taken to apply only where arrangements are 
made for feeding school children. The Committee did not 
consider it within the terms of the reference to recommend 
that such arrangement should be made, nor to express any 
opinion as to the wisdom from an economic or social point 
of view of relieving children, apart from their families, 
by the provision of school meals. 

The recommendations, distinguished mainly by the 
omission to touch upon the vital parts of the question or 
the points of most serious difficulty, are as follows : 

1. The local education authority, or some central body 
authorised for the purpose by them, should be kept regu- 
larly informed of any feeding of scholars which is in any 
way organised in connection with the schools maintained 
by the authority, and of all funds received by managers or 
teachers for that purpose. 

2. The local education authority should cooperate as far 
as practicable with any feeding agency established in its 
area, and unless there is any good reason to the contrary, 
should be represented thereon, though such representation 
may not be feasible or even desirable in London and the 
county areas. 

3. Any organisation for feeding school children should 
be of a permanent character that is to say the framework 
of the organisation should be kept continuously in exist- 
ence, notwithstanding that its operations may be in some 
cases properly intermittent. 

4. Provision should be made for enabling meals to be 
given, where necessary, throughout the year, though sum- 
mer needs will generally be small. 



244 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEfc : 

5. Where meals are provided it is desirable that they 
should be obtainable at least as often as every school 
day. 

6. The object of the agency should be to feed the most 
destitute children regularly, rather than a large number 
irregularly. 

7. The children of families in temporary distress should 
be made the first care of any feeding agency. 

8. It is not desirable that teachers should be required 
to take part in serving or supervising children's meals. 

9. While teachers may properly make the initial selec- 
tion they should not be made responsible for the final 
choice of the children to receive meals. 

10. A " relief committee " should be formed for each 
school or group of schools, and provision should be made 
for placing on such committee an adequate number of 
women. 

11. In selecting children to receive meals (a) the infor- 
mation in the possession of the school attendance officers 
should be utilised; (fc) the cooperation of Poor-law 
guardians and relieving officers should be invited ; (c) as 
far as possible the cooperation of religious and philan- 
thropic agencies in the district should be enlisted ; 
(d) where there is a school medical officer or nurse, their 
advice and help should be obtained. 

12. Care should be taken to give adequate notice before- 
hand to their parents when children are to receive meals ; 
sufficient notice of the discontinuance of meals should 
similarly be given. 

13. The parents should be told clearly that they are in 
receipt of charitable relief for their children where such is 
the case, and greater effort might be made to obtain pay- 
ment from parents for the whole or part cost of meals 
supplied to their children. 



CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 245 

14. Care should be taken to make the meals orderly, and 
to give them a civilising and educative effect upon the 
children. 

15. Eegisters should be kept showing exactly what chil 
dren have received food and on what days. 

16. Schoolrooms and classrooms should not be used for 
meals, if other convenient rooms can be found. 

17. Cookery centres may in some cases be usefully em- 
ployed for the provision of children's meals. But a cookery 
centre can only provide for a few children, and it should 
be remembered that its essential purpose is the provision 
of cookery instruction. 

The important questions involved in the discussion of 
nutrition, growth, and development of children are some- 
what beyond the scope of this book, but the following 
table from the report by the Royal Commission on Physical 
Training may be useful : 







British 


Boston School Edinburgh 






Population 


Children 


Schl. Children 






(Roberts). 


(Bowditch). 


(Mackenzie). 




Ages. 


Inches. 


Inches. 


Inches. 


Height, Boys 


... 6 to 9 


... 45-67 


...' 46-15 


... 44-52 


Girls 


... 6,, 9 


... 44-64 


... 45-89 


... 44-51 


Boys 


... 9 ,,12 


... 51-68 


... 52-10 


... 50-20 


Girls 


... 9 ,,12 


... 50-96 


... 51-72 


... 49-93 


Boys 


... 12,, 15 


... 57-07 


... 58-34 


... 55-26 


Girls 


...12 ,,15 


... 57-74 


... 58-74 


... 55-65 



Ages. 


Ibs. 


Ibs. 


Ibs. 


Weight, Boys 
Girls 


... 6 to 9 ... 
... 6,, 9... 


49-6 ... 
47-1 ... 


49-68 
48-25 


... 46-60 
... 45-62 





Boys 
Girls 


... 9 
... 9 


,,12 ... 
12 ... 


66-6 ... 
61-8 ... 


66-32 
63-95 


... 59-53 

... 57-76 


n 


Boys 
Girls 


... 12 
..,12 


,,15... 
,, 15 ... 


83-7 ... 
86-7 ,., 


89-12 
90-95 


... 74-02 
, 78-36 



246 CLOTHING : CLEANLINESS : TEETH : SLEEP : FOOD. 

There is no doubt that the rate of growth is greatly 
affected by the surroundings, by exercise, and by food. 
During the physical examination of school children many 
questions present themselves, involving issues of tremen- 
dous importance to the well-being of the race. Concerning 
every scholar it should be asked whether the child is fully 
grown for his age. If he is not it should be ascertained 
whether the arrested development is due to hereditary 
causes, congenital defects, or such causes as lack of food, 
improper food, use of drugs, bad sanitary conditions at 
home, &c. 

All great reforms need a first step. There is urgent 
need of a total reform of the methods and surroundings of 
school life, and an excellent first step in the school educa- 
tion of the people is to ascertain the heights and weights of 
all the school children. 



PART III. 

MEDICAL SUPEE VISION AND SCHOOL 
MEDICINE AND SUEGEEY. 



CHAPTER I. 



INTEODUCTION. 
The School Medical Officer. 

Many towns and urban districts have now appointed 
medical officers to the education authority, but the duties 
of these officials vary in different cases. There is no fixed 
standard either as to the nature or the scope of the work, 
and in many districts the remuneration is so nominal that 
the medical officer cannot afford to devote to the work the 
time that he recognises is necessary. In the near future 
it is likely that such appointments will, be compulsory and 
their duties clearly defined. 

It is desirable that in all cases the Medical Officer of Health 
should undertake the duty of inspecting, or supervising 
the inspection of, schools and school children. The work 
is so inseparably connected with the public health as to 
render this essential to the smooth working and efficiency 
of any scheme. When local authorities have the power 
and the desire to treat defective bodily conditions, then the 
services of specialists in eyes, ears, skin, teeth, etc., may be 
necessary for a few special cases, but the school buildings, 
the health of the school children, and the inspection of the 
children should be in charge of the local Medical Officer of 
Health. 

247 



248 INTRODUCTION. 



MEDICAL INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION. 

It is generally recognised that the organisation and 
direction of the medical inspection of schools should be 
assigned to the Medical Officer of Health, and the recent 
appointment of Dr. Newman as Chief Medical Adviser to 
the Board of Education seems to show that the Board 
intends to take this view. At the recent Congress the 
following considerations were urged in favour of such a 
course : 

(1) The Medical Officer of Health represents the pre- 
ventive functions of the Sanitary Authority and the work 
of medical inspection is largely preventive. 

(2) He controls the sanitation of the child's environ- 
ment, drainage, water, overcrowding, food, ventilation, 
housing, plans of buildings and the like. 

(3) He has access to the school for the purpose of 
examining the children for infection, and he has control of 
all the apparatus for managing infectious diseases. 

(4) He necessarily has a hygienic interest in the child 
before it begins to go to school, during its stay at school, 
and after its school days are over. The child cannot be 
divided up into abstractions, the home-child, the school- 
child, the street-child, the factory-child, the work-child 
and so on. It is the same child right through its hygienic 
relationships and, as the school is the largest depot of 
children for the time being, the Medical Officer of Health 
should have the administrative advantage that direct 
personal examination can give to the preventive functions 
of the Sanitary Authority. 

(5) The Medical Officer of Health knows that the 
physical condition of the child is an index to the sanitary 
condition of the home, and he wishes to have this new line 



INTRODUCTION. 249 

of entry into the home in order to improve the child's and 
the parents' environment. 

Medical inspection should not mean merely dealing with 
epidemic and isolated cases, but should be a system where- 
by education will mean the development of body as well 
as mind. At present we neglect curable conditions in child- 
hood and treat them later on in asylums and hospitals. 

In Leipzig the children are systematically examined 
about three months after admission to school. The pre- 
liminary examination is made by teachers under medical 
superintendence. Then the detailed examination a little 
later by the doctor. Most of the parents attend this. 
The doctor delivers a short preliminary lecture on personal 
hygiene, then in the presence of mother and teacher each 
child is examined. A separate card is filled up for each 
child, and this passes with it through the school. If defects 
are found the parents are directed to seek treatment. 

Of course in very large districts and towns the whole 
of the work cannot be personally done by the Medical 
Officer of Health, and part of it may be delegated to an 
Assistant Medical Officer. At present the duties consist 
usually in the examination of pupil teachers, the visiting 
of schools, and an occasional general inspection with a 
view to checking the spread of infectious disease. The 
aim of those directing education should be to arrange that 
every child should be medically examined soon, after it 
comes to school, and this examination should be checked 
every year. Parents are compelled to send children to 
school, and so during the school age they may be said to 
be in charge of the State. But ordinary . school conditions 
are undoubtedly useless or injurious to certain children, 
and it is the duty of the State either to weed out these 
children and to treat them separately, or to endeavour to 
bring them to the normal condition and educate them with 



250 INTRODUCTION. 

the others. Moreover it is likely that with skilled medical 
supervision the methods of modern education may be 
modified so as to produce less physical harm and more 
mental good than is achieved at present. In connection 
with such work there is also a vast field of possible research 
with regard to the development and mental conditions of 
childhood. Such an examination as is recommended should 
include information under the following heads: Name, 
date of birth, height, weight, chest measurement, personal 
appearance, general development of body, cleanliness, con- 
dition of teeth, eyes and eyesight, ears and hearing, nose 
and throat, deformities, diseases, etc. In cases of mental 
deficiency the head measurements should also be recorded. 

Height and Weight. 

The importance of this information has already been 
discussed and a table of standards is given on page 245. 

Chest Measurements. 

This is perhaps the best and most reliable indicator of 
physical capacity. It should invariably be recorded and 
carefully checked year by year. The results give a great 
deal of information as to the condition and development 
of the child. A well developed chest usually means sound 
lungs and heart, upon which the well-being of the body 
entirely depends. 

Personal Appearance. 

Under this head should be recorded the complexion, the 
appearance as to healthiness, carriage and general balance, 
and brightness and alertness. 

General Development. 

The general conditions of development and nutrition. 



INTRODUCTION. 251 

Cleanliness. 

The condition of the body, the head, and the clothing 
should be carefully recorded, as affording, in the case of 
young children, an index of the character of the parent, 
and in older children a clue to the personal disposition of 
the child as well. Dirt always denotes ignorance and in- 
capacity of the parent. 

Condition of Teeth. 

The importance of attention to the teeth has been 
explained elsewhere. Under this head the cleanliness, 
attention received at home in the form of daily brushing, 
the shape, regularity, number missing, number decayed, 
and the number of permanent teeth visible above the gums 
should be noted. The shape and development of the 
palate may well be added here. (See Table at end of book). 

Eyes and Eyesight. 

Disease or deformity of eyes or eyelids, as well as the 
colour and the acuteness of vision should be recorded. 
From a school point of view it is sufficient if the child can 
manage to read ordinary type at the normal distance, and 
to see easily writing on blackboards or diagrams. It is 
occasionally pointed out that this may be done if one eye 
is normal, or by extra accommodation if the defect is 
slight, and a child may be suffering from an optical defect 
without having its school efficiency impaired. Later in 
life, however, after leaving school, such a defect may 
become very troublesome, and may prove to be a severe 
handicap. Consequently extremists advocate that con- 
ditions of short sight, long sight, and astigmatism should 
be accurately recorded. On the other hand it may be 
urged that if the routine examination is to include 
retinoscopic tests it will postpone, by its tedium and delay, 



252 INTRODUCTION. 

the general adoption of urgently necessary medical in- 
spection. If this is so, then the average child should be 
submitted to the general test of eyesight as already 
described and the more minute examination reserved for 
the cases weeded out by the general test, and also for cases 
where intellectual progress is unsatisfactory, and for 
special cases such as children suffering from persistent 
headaches, etc. In fact, the above plan represents all 
that is really necessary, and if generally adopted would 
prove of the greatest possible service. 

Ears and Hearing. 

The record here should show any deformity or disease 
of the ears, as well as the result of the test of hearing 
already described. If the general test shows hearing 
deficiency, then the ears should be tested separately. 
Avoid special minute examinations except where the 
general examination shows that the child has some defect 
and is therefore not capable of taking full advantage of 
the ordinary school instruction. 

Nose and Throat. 

It has already been pointed out that the condition of 
the nose and throat is an important index of the child's 
health. The condition of the tonsils, the cervical glands, 
the pharynx, as well as the habit of breathing should be 
recorded. The sense of smell may also be tested. 

Deformities. 

Congenital and acquired deformities should be separately 
noted. The congenital deformities include harelip, cleft 
palate, club foot, peculiarities of ears, indented nose, etc., 
all of which may be of great service in investigating tl^e, 
case of a mentally deficient child, 



CHAPTER II. 



THE DAY'S WOKK. 
FATIGUE. 

THEKE are two factors in fatigue, the muscular and the 
nervous. A muscle, as everyone knows, becomes fatigued 
after a longer or shorter period of activity. The cause of 
this fatigue is the production of poisonous waste materials 
in the muscle. These are produced, during the activity of 
the muscle, at a greater rate than they can be got rid of, and 
when they accumulate beyond a certain point the muscle 
becomes incapable of further useful work. By a period of 
rest the muscle can be restored to its original condition 
because the waste products are rapidly eliminated during 
repose. Probably in just the same way the brain be- 
comes fatigued by prolonged mental work. Toxic bodies 
are produced in the brain during the period of activity, and 
when they accumulate beyond a certain point further useful 
mental work becomes an impossibility. In children the 
channels for the elimination of these waste materials are 
but poorly developed, so that mental fatigue conies on very 
rapidly. 

The whole of the mental apparatus is most truly rested 
by sleep, but, unless the fatigue is so great as to amount to 
exhaustion, there are other means of removing the poisons 
that have been produced in the brain during a lesson of 
undue length. Within reasonable limits the muscular and 

253 



254 THE DAY'S wont. . 

the nervous activities may be regarded as complementary, 
the parts of the brain that have been used chiefly during 
the lesson being best rested by the activity of the muscles, 
i.e. by physical exercise or play. The effect of the exercise 
in increasing the rapidity of respiration and circulation 
still further tends to hasten the removal of the toxic bodies 
from the brain. 

It should be remembered that the child becomes men- 
tally fatigued rather by the length of the separate lesson 
than by the length of the day's work. For proper bene- 
ficial and useful work the child's lessons must be short and 
must be separated by intervals of play. 

Many observers, as a result of investigations carried out 
by them, have pointed out that the length of time during 
which the attention can be fixed on a lesson is very short 
in early childhood and gradually increases with age. The 
results of their observations were as follows : 

At 6 years the attention can be fixed for 15 minutes. 
From 7 to 10 20 

10 12 25 

12 16 30 

These figures mean that if the attention of the child 
has been concentrated upon mental work for the above 
periods the limit of good work has been reached, and if 
the same lesson is continued it will tend to produce mental 
fatigue, and the children will gain no benefit from further 
instruction. The time of the teacher and the children is 
wasted by long lessons. At the end of one of the above 
proper periods of instruction there should be a minute 
devoted to simple physical movements or breathing 
exercises, and then a second lesson given of the same 
length, the subject being as great a mental change from 
the first as possible. After the second of these lessons 



THE DAY'S WORK. 255 

there should be a period of physical exercise in the form 
of play. 

It does not appear to be fully appreciated that the time 
during which the child is attending school is even more 
vitally important to its physical well-being than to its 
mental development. Any hindrance to the process of 
physical development during these years can never be com- 
pensated. The seeds of tuberculosis and diseases of the 
nervous, digestive, and circulatory systems are sown in 
many instances during school life. No wonder that 
children "outgrow their strength" when the demands that 
school life makes upon the body leave no balance for its 
proper development. All experts are agreed that the best 
work is got from the scholars by short and varied lessons. 
No lesson should exceed half an hour's duration, and after 
two such lessons there should be fifteen minutes' play. In 
this way there would be far more real working time in the 
school day than there is at present, and the results would 
more than justify, the change. 

There is a great deal of evidence that the school work 
of scholars is always best after intervals of rest, and 
steadily deteriorates after a certain period of constant work 
has elapsed. Usually the best work of the week is done on 
Monday and Tuesday, and on Tuesday afternoon the work 
begins to deteriorate. If there is a Wednesday half -holiday 
there will be an improvement on Thursday morning, and so 
on. For this reason it is an advantage to have a half-day's 
holiday on Wednesday and Saturday, instead of the whole 
day on Saturday. 

The best work of the day is done during the first two 
hours, and the afternoon's work is always inferior. At all 
events this is the experience of most people who are 
actually engaged in educational work, although a certain 
amount of evidence has been brought forward against 



256 THE DAY'S WORK. 

such a view. For this reason the afternoon is best occupied 
by those subjects which produce the least fatigue, such as 
history, literature, and languages. It cannot be too often 
repeated that gymnastics and drill produce so much phy- 
sical and mental fatigue that the work done afterwards 
is almost useless. No mental work should be attempted 
for at least half an hour after a meal. 

Fatigue comes on with increased rapidity if the sur- 
roundings are injurious. Bad ventilation, bad lighting, 
improper desks and injurious attitudes are common causes 
of rapid fatigue in schools. If, in addition, the child 
arrives at school suffering from want of sleep and 
insufficient food, it is wonderful how the teachers manage 
to get any real mental work done at all. If it is done, 
what a price does the child pay for its poor little stock 
of knowledge ! 



THE DAILY TIME-TABLE. 

The arrangement of the time-table has been mentioned 
above in connection with the subject of fatigue. According 
as the subjects are arranged it may contribute towards the 
production of fatigue or help to obviate it. The daily 
programme should be so arranged as to engage successively 
different kinds of mental activity. The best work is done 
in the morning when the children are fresh, and so the 
most trying and fatiguing work should be taken then. 
During the first part of the day the children think better 
and quicker, their memory is better, and they more quickly 
recover when fatigued than at any other time. Arithmetic 
and mathematics are therefore justifiably attempted the 
first thing in the morning. The arrangement of the other 
subjects may be left to the judgment of the teacher, but 



257 

care should be taken to make each subject as widely 
different as possible from the one before. The less fati- 
guing subjects should be reserved for afternoon. 

The minimum times set apart for games should be 
twenty minutes in the middle of the morning, and the 
same interval in the afternoon. Better results would pro- 
bably be obtained by having an interval of play after each 
hour or hour and a half of work. For young children 
under 9 years of age the ordinary school day of about 5| 
hours is simply cruelty and does an infinite amount of 
mental and physical harm. It has been proved over and 
over again that the best educational results are obtained 
by much shorter hours of school work, and much longer 
periods of outdoor exercise than are usual in most schools. 
The importance of the fact justifies its continued repetition, 
because education authorities at present appear to have 
quite failed to grasp this simple but fundamental truth. 
The experiment conducted by Mr. Charles Paget, M.P., is 
well known. Not being satisfied with the progress of the 
boys in the school on his estate he divided the school into 
two similar sections. One section continued the ordinary 
school work in the usual school hours, but the other 
devoted half the usual time to school work and the re- 
mainder to outdoor work in a garden. Those boys who 
were employed half their school time in the garden were 
found to excel the others in every respect. 

Similar evidence is given by Sir E. Chadwick, who found 
that the children in half-time schools were ahead of those 
who attended the whole day. 

For older children, of course, longer hours of work are 
necessary, and will do no harm, but many children arrive 
at the age of twelve or thirteen suffering mentally and 
physically from the effects of injudicious methods of 
education during their earlier years. 

sen. HYG. 17 



258 THE DAY'S WORK. 

Dr. Clement Dukes gives the following table of the hours 
of school work suitable for each year : 

Ages. Hours of work. 

From 5 to 6 years 6 per week 

6 7 9 

7 8 12 

8 9 15 

9 10 18 

10 11 21 

11 12 25 

12 13 30 

13 14 35 

The same writer very wisely advocates a reduction of these 
hours for boys between 13 and 16 years and girls about 
12 and 13 years in those cases where growth is proceeding 
very rapidly. 

Education of Girls. 

The injury done to boys and girls during " preparation 
for examinations " is now beginning to be recognised, but 
the terrible risks in the case of girls is not yet appreciated. 
The " higher education of girls," consisting as it usually 
does of several years' cramming for examinations, often in 
subjects utterly uncongenial to the feminine mind, is an 
unmitigated evil, and often results in a complete break- 
down. A few exceptional brains can manage to acquire 
the necessary examination tricks in a short time, and some 
of these cases appear to survive the ordeal unscathed, but 
for the more numerous class who find it necessary to grind 
away incessantly in order to get up to the examination 
standard the process is injurious and mind-warping. 
When, in addition to this direct mental injury, one re- 
members that these processes are at work usually just at 



THE DAY'S WORK. 259 

the time when the body is finishing its physical develop- 
ment, and when it is being decided whether the body shall 
be normal and strong or abnormal and weak, there is 
little cause for surprise that education is at last making 
its first feeble efforts to dissociate itself from forced work 
for examinations. 

"I would urge," says Dr. Clement Dukes, "that the 
education of growing girls should not be acquired at the 
expense of motherhood : we do not want crammed heads, 
but strong well-made bodies, fitted for Nature's require- 
ments. There is no sphere for the girl which can excel 
that which comprises the virtues of motherhood ; and if 
teachers and parents were more alive to their duties, and 
would see that education consisted more in training the 
girl for the beneficent occupation of home-maker, what a 
vast amount of happiness and usefulness would be en- 
gendered ! Mental powers too highly developed in women 
involve a physiological cost, which her feminine organisa- 
tion will not sustain without injury more or less profound. 

"It is more essential for a nation to produce vigorous 
offspring, than to educate girls to the highest standard. 
By the highest physical education girls can be rendered 
strong, comely, and well proportioned; while by the 
highest mental culture (without this physical basis) they 
may be transformed into mere ' blue stockings ' or neurotics, 
or a combination of both." 

Such vital problems as physical degeneration, the de- 
creasing birth rate, and the increase in lunacy and in 
neurotic conditions do not appear to have yet been 
popularly associated with the modern education of girls. 
Yet it is a possible association of cause and effect, and one 
that is well worth consideration by those who have at 
heart the well-being of the race, and who are seeking an 
explanation of these serious developments. 



260 THE DAY'S WORK. 

With reference to over- pressure in mental work it is 
impossible to improve upon the words of Sir Crichton 
Browne : " It has often occurred to me that if educa- 
tionalists could peep through a little hole in the skull, and 
see the living, throbbing brain, and realise that it is a pulpy 
organ of about the consistence of calf's-foot jelly ; and if 
they could look at the minutest shred of it under the 
microscope and admire one little galaxy out of the millions 
of starry cells that it contains, lying scattered amongst 
the strands and sources of its fibres ' like a swarm of fireflies 
tangled in a silver braid,' if they could, as physiologists 
can, picture to themselves the functional activity of the 
brain now, as at times of ease and abandonment, shim- 
mering over its surface from point to point; now, as at 
periods of calm and connected thought, localised into a 
steady glow in certain regions; and now, again, as in 
moments of intense mental application, concentrated on 
one spot into a spark of surpassing brightness if our 
educators could do all this, and if they could become 
practically acquainted with the brain, they would, I think, 
be more careful in the handling of it than they sometimes 
are, and be a little less ready to deny that there is any 
danger of exerting overpressure on this delicate structure." 

The brilliant boys at school are rarely successes in after 
life. The early mental overstrain either produces sufficient 
physical injury to handicap them heavily afterwards, or 
else causes them to rapidly reach their limit of mental 
development. 

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF OVERWORK. 

Overwork as a rule quickly produces easily recognised 
effects upon the young body and mind. Unfortunately 
such effects are only too commonly found in many of the 



THE DAY S WORK, 



261 



secondary schools and colleges. In such cases the skin 
acquires an unhealthy appearance, dark rings appear round 
the eyes, and the scholar either becomes unnaturally rest- 
less and excitable, or unduly lethargic and dull. 

Growth. 

The growth is often arrested under such circumstances. 
Any child who fails to increase its weight regularly should 
be regarded as ailing. In fact, no stronger proof of its 
ill-health could be forthcoming. Occasionally the explana- 
tion is that the amount of food is insufficient, in quantity, 
but more often it is the fact that the child is failing to digest 
the food supplied. Constipation, with its accompanying 
foul breath and loss of appetite, is a common result of over- 
work. By carefully noting the height and weight of every 
scholar three times a year it is possible to obtain a con- 
siderable amount of information as to their general well- 
being. The following table shows the average heights and 
weights at different ages : 



Boys. 



Girls. 



Age. 


Height. 


Weight. 


Height. 


Weight. 


5 ... 


41-2 ins. 


... 40-5 Ibs. ... 


41-0 ins. 


... 39-6 Ibs. 


6 ... 


43-9 


... 44-8 ... 


43-0 


... 42-8 


7 ... 


45-9 


... 494 ... 


45-0 


... 47-0 


8 ... 


47-4 


... 54-4 ... 


47-0 


... 52-1 


9 ... 


49-7 


... 59-8 ... 


49-0 


... 56-3 


10 ... 


51-7 


... 66-4 ... 


51-2 


... 62-2 


11 ... 


53-5 ., 


... 71-1 ... 


53-3 


... 68-5 


12 ... 


54-9 


... 76-8 ... 


55-8 


... 77-3 


13 ... 


57-1 


... 837 ... 


37-9 


... 87-8 


14 ... 


59-6 


... 93-5 ... 


59-9 


. 97-6 , 


15 ... 


62-3 


...104-9 ... 


61-0 


... *S t \S )f 

...105-4 


16 ... 


647 


...120-0 ... 


61-7 


...112-4 



262 THE DAY'S WORK. 

The above figures are averages of a large number of 
statistics. It should be remembered that there are varia- 
tions in weight according to social conditions and surround- 
ings. The following table shows such variations between 
11 and 12 years of age: 

Average 
Class. Age. Height. 

Public School ... 11 to 12 ... 54'98 

Agriculture ... 53*01 

Factory ... 51'56 

Industrial School ... ... 50*02 

The above table shows that roughly there is a growth 
of about two inches per year. Also that between 11 and 
13 years in boys, and 9 and 10 in girls, there is a curious 
retardation in growth. At these ages the children do not 
appear to be doing so well as at other ages. In boys at 16 
and girls at 13 growth is going on at its maximum rate, 
and at these ages it is well if the mental and physical 
activities are brought to a minimum. 

Chest Development. 

A systematic record of chest measurements is even more 
valuable. If a child's chest shows no increase in size in 
six months it should be medically examined. Probably no 
physical factor is under such control as the chest measure- 
ment. Every child's chest can be developed to a fair 
standard by proper breathing and physical exercises. Over- 
work usually causes shallow breathing and consequently an 
ill-developed chest. 

Other Effects. 

Among other effects of overwork may be mentioned the 
dull, lifeless appearance, the inelastic gait, the flabby and 



THE DAY'S WORK. 263 

wasted muscles, and the various nervous conditions. The 
nervous evidences are very numerous, and include sleepless- 
ness, bad dreams, somnambulism, headaches, starting and 
talking in sleep, hysteria, St. Vitus' dance, irritability, 
twitchings of muscles, and many other ill effects. Mental 
perversion is also common, and there is occasionally a total 
change in the moral nature of the child. Many of the 
above effects, unless quickly recognised and arrested, 
cause life-long misery and suffering. 

EXAMINATIONS. 

Much has been written on this subject. Most of the 
" experts on education," whose opinions are listened to 
with such reverence, have never had any real experience 
in teaching a large class of children. Periodical examina- 
tions are necessary and useful in order to test the progress 
of the scholar and the efficiency of the teacher. The 
examinations should be fairly conducted and the questions 
asked should be reasonable. The standard required also 
ought not to be excessive. Everyone who has had much 
experience in examinations has met that examiner whose 
idea of " examining "is to find out what the candidate 
does not know, instead of ascertaining how much he does 
know. Competitive examinations as at present conducted, 
whatever may be the necessity for them, are unmitigated 
evils both from an educational standpoint and also 
because of the enormous damage they do to the average 
candidate. One of the results of them is the evolution of 
the " examination expert," as he (or she) .might be called. 
Such scholars early acquire the knack of absorbing 
knowledge from an examination point of view, and readily 
grasp the fact that the method of presenting the matter 
i$ of as much importance as the matter itself. These 



264 THE DAY'S WORK. 

candidates are rarely injured by the cramming process, 
and they succeed brilliantly in school examinations, but, 
curiously enough, they are rarely heard of afterwards. On 
the other hand the examinations often severely and per- 
manently injure great numbers of scholars in secondary 
schools. The fault is not with the system of examination, 
but because there is no proper control over the methods of 
preparing candidates for them. Competition of all kinds 
is healthy and desirable, but when candidates are crammed 
and overworked by attempting to do twelve months' work in 
six, or less, a certain number of disasters is inevitable. At 
all events there should be an invariable rule, from which no 
exception should be allowed under any circumstances what- 
ever, that no boy should take part in any competitive exami- 
nation during his sixteenth and no girl during her thirteenth 
or f ourteenth year. 

HOME WORK. 

If good work has been done during the school day there 
should be no need for work in the evening in the case of 
children under eleven or twelve years old. After that age a 
certain small amount of home work may be required, but it 
should be always restricted in amount and of a definite 
character, such as working a few mathematical examples the 
methods for which have been thoroughly learned at school, 
or committing to memory a short piece of prose or poetry. 
The work set should not present any difficulty to the 
scholars. Nothing should be set which will involve more 
than an hour's work at most, and it must not need much 
reading. To use the already overtired and overstrained 
eye, in indifferent artificial light, in still further struggles 
with the type of the average school book is to convert a 
possible into a probable disaster. Constructive manual 
fyas not such great disadvantages as home work, 



THE DAY'S WORK. 265 

Everyone who has had educational experience realises 
that the work in the average school is not so continuous in 
character as it might be. There are slack times which 
must be made up for by periods of overwork, and unfor- 
tunately the usual time for setting large amounts of home 
work is just when there is extra pressure being exerted 
during school hours. If the work in school is done 
thoroughly throughout the year there should be no need 
for any work out of school hours. 

HOLIDAYS AND HOLIDAY TASKS. 

The present average elementary school holidays are fairly 
well arranged and of the right length. The holidays of 
secondary schools are undoubtedly too long and are the 
chief cause of the cramming that may go 011 during the 
term. Any holiday of a greater length than four weeks 
should be considered too long. The aim of educationalists 
for the future should be to increase the number of working 
days in secondary schools and thus make it possible to 
abolish home work and holiday tasks. The holidays should 
be real. If holiday tasks are set the holiday is merely 
make-believe, and if the holidays are so long that they 
cannot be spared entirely for real cessation of study they 
should be curtailed and the proper school work begun 
earlier. On the other hand there is no objection to 
sensible encouragement of the scholars to devote themselves 
to some pursuit or hobby during the holidays. Nothing 
can be said against encouragement being given to the 
scholars to make collections of moths or insects, wild 
flowers, etc., and fossils or minerals. Among boys with a 
liking for wood work or metal work the idea of returning 
to school with specimens of such work should be fostered. 
All these tasks will do good, and the children will return 



266 THE DAY'S WORK. 

to school all the better and fresher if they have failed to 
devote a moment of the holiday to ordinary school work. 
Before leaving the subject of holidays it is important to 
mention the common form of holiday torture that is often 
inflicted upon children by well-meaning parents in the 
form of "musical education." Undoubtedly a great 'deal 
of harm is done to boys and girls by insisting upon set 
times of " practising " being observed when the child ought 
either to be resting the intellectual centres by means of 
sleep, or exercising its motor centres by physical activity. 



CHAPTER III. 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL 
DEFICIENCIES. 

BEFORE considering the interesting and important matters 
concerning mental development and mental deficiencies of 
school children, it is necessary to give a brief description 
of the nervous system. The nervous system includes : 

1. The brain and spinal cord, called the central nervous 

system. 

2. The nerves directly connected with the brain and 

spinal cord, called the peripheral nervous system. 

3. Nerves only indirectly connected with the spina 

cord, but connected with a series of small masses 
found at intervals in the body cavity, in front of 
the spinal column. This is called the sympathetic 
nervous system. 

THE BRAIN. 

The cavity of the skull contains a mass of nervous tissue 
called the brain, a large organ consisting of several parts. 
If it is examined it is found to have on the outside a layer of 
greyish material called " grey matter " which covers material 
of a lighter colour called " white matter." The grey matter 
consists of nerve cells which are formed into groups called 
"centres." These groups of cells are called centres because 
certain places on this grey matter have been proved to be 
associated with special parts, sensations, or acts. In other 
words, the grey matter is believed to be divided up, as it 
were, into pigeon-holes or compartments, each having special 
work to do. Thus special parts of the brain deal with sight, 
hearing, muscular movements of the face, arm, leg, etc. 

The brain receives messages from the organs of sense, 
and transforms them into sensations such as sight, sound, 

267 



268 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 



or touch. Thus the eye can do no more than send mes- 
sages to the brain. If these messages reach that part of 
the brain dealing with sight, and if that part of the brain 
is properly developed, is healthy, and is educated to inter- 
pret these messages, then, and only then, does the 
individual see. It is the same with the ears and the other 
organs of sense. The c 

full possession of any 
one of the senses there- 
fore is only possible when 
the three essential parts 
and their connections 
are perfect. These are 





Cl 



Fig. 96. 

DIAGRAM OF THE GENERAL DIVISIONS 
OF THE BRAIN (leftside). 

0, cerebrum ; AL, anterior lobe ' 
ML. middle lobe ; PL, posterior lobe ; 
P, Pons; M, medulla; Cl, cerebel- 
lum. 



Fig. 97. 



DIAGRAM OF BRAIN SHOWING CONTOLTJ- 

TIONS AND FISSURES OF EXTERNAL SCR- 
FACR OF LEFT SIDE OF BRAIN. 

The line from C leads to the place near 
which most of the motor areas of the 
brain are situated. 



(1) the sense organ, such as the eye, (2) the connection of 
this organ with the brain, i.e. the sensory nerve, and (3) the 
centre of the brain, whose special function it is to deal with 
and properly interpret these messages. Of such sensory 
centres the positions of those concerned with smell, taste, 
hearing, sight, and ordinary sensation are known. 

The brain also contains centres, called motor centres, 
concerned with movements. The positions of the centres 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 269 

concerned with movements of the face, tongue, lips, arms, 
legs, trunk, and head are known. Such centres are double, 
one on each side of the brain, and, curiously enough, centres 
on the right side of the brain govern movements on the left 
side of the body, and vice versa. Thus, in an ordinary 
right-handed individual, the arm centre on the left side 
of the brain would be more frequently used, and would 
become more highly developed than the corresponding 
centre on the right side. Such an act as writing would 
therefore have its centre on the left side of the brain. 

Other functions of the brain include the process of 
thought and the phenomenon of memory. 

THE SPINAL CORD. 

The spinal cord occupies the cavity in the spinal column, 
and is continuous with the brain above. If it is cut across 
it is seen to be composed of the same two kinds of tissue 
as the brain, but the white matter here is arranged outside 
the grey. The white matter forms the paths of communi- 
cation with the brain, while the cells of the grey matter 
can act as " centres" for what are called " reflex actions." 

THE NEEVES. 

Connected with the brain there are twelve pairs of 
nerves, and from the spinal cord there pass thirty- one 
pairs. Nerves carry impulses either to the central nervous 
system or from it. If a nerve brings impulses from the 
skin or from the organs of special sense, such as the eye 
or the ear, to the brain or spinal cord it is called a sensory 
nerve. Those which convey impulses from the central 
nervous system to the muscles are called motor nerves. If 
a nerve contains both sensory fibres and motor fibres it is 
called a mixed nerve. All the spinal nerves are mixed. 



270 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 

EEFLEX ACTS. 

If the foot of a sleeping person is tickled it is jerked 
away. If the soles of the feet of a man whose spinal cord 
is injured anywhere above the sacral region be tickled, it 
often happens that his legs will be suddenly drawn up, 
although he can neither feel the tickling nor is able, of his 
own will, to draw up his legs. The explanation is that the 
sensation is conveyed from the foot along sensory nerve 
fibres to the spinal cord, the grey matter of which con- 
stitutes a " centre " for receiving such messages. These 
impulses so act upon the grey matter of the cord that they 
cause new impulses, motor impulses, to travel along the 
motor nerve fibres to the muscles of the leg and foot, with 
the result that the foot is jerked away. These movements 
are produced without the action of the will or brain, and 
take place perfectly when all connection with the brain has 
been destroyed. As long as there are the proper con- 
nections between the brain and the spinal cord, the brain 
exercises a controlling effect in limiting the violence of the 
movements caused by reflex acts. This is called inhibition. 
Also, when conscious, the will, or volition, comes into play, 
and the brain can limit or prevent the motor impulses 
being sent in response to a sensory stimulus. Thus, by an 
effort of the will, it is possible to prevent the foot being 
jerked away when the sole is tickled. 

For a purely reflex act there are therefore three necessary 
parts : (1) a sensory nerve, (2) a nerve centre, and (3) a 
motor nerve. Many of the ordinary acts and movements 
of human beings are reflex acts. Some of them are 
involuntary or automatic, and take place with or without 
the will. Some acts that originally required considerable 
effort and a good deal of will control become more or less 
automatic afterwards. Thus we can go on walking 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 271 

without thinking about it. Among the purely automatic 
centres which require no stimulus from the outside are 
those concerned with circulation and respiration. These 
acts are continually performed during life, but the rate at 
which the work is done is constantly varied in response to 
impulse. 

The start that one gives in response to a sudden noise ; 
the jerking away of the hand if it touches a hot body ; 
the closing of the eyes in response to a sudden flash of 
light ; these are common reflex acts. 



SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

Lying on each side of the front of the vertebral column 
is a row of small beads or ganglia connected together by a 
greyish-coloured cord. This is called the sympathetic chain, 
and extends from the base of the skull to the bottom of 
the spine. The ganglia are connected by fibres with the 
spinal nerves, and therefore with the spinal cord, and 
immense numbers of nerve fibres pass from the sympathetic 
chain to the various internal organs, such as the heart, 
lungs, stomach, intestines, and also to the walls of the 
blood vessels all over the body. These sympathetic nerves 
chiefly carry impulses which govern the muscular tissue of 
the internal organs and the muscular coat of the blood 
vessels. 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF THE INFANT. 

The automatic centres, such as those concerned with 
circulation and respiration, are well formed in the infant at 
birth. Other centres that need no control from the brain 
are also in working order, such as the centre for sucking 
a reflex act set going when the mucous membrane of 



272 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 

the mouth encounters any foreign body. Other centres 
rapidly develop and acquire power and control, and the 
child reacts more readily to external stimuli, obviously 
noticing differences and alterations in its surroundings. 
Then the child begins to be able to possess muscular con- 
trol, and coordinates its muscles in order to produce the 
coarser movements by an effort of will. The power for 
finer movements is acquired later on, and is part of the 
education of the brain. 

Similarly the receptive centres have to be educated. 
Very early in life it is probable that neither light nor sound 
affects the child in any way. Afterwards a child will 
obviously notice a bright light or a sharp sound, but it is 
still unaffected by gradations of light or sound. Then 
light and shade become recognised, sight and touch teach 
each other, and gradations of light and shade are asso- 
ciated with special forms and shapes. Objects that are 
continually seen are sending the same impressions time 
after time, until at last these impressions become familiar 
and are remembered. The child is then able to recognise 
familiar faces and things. In a similar manner the centre 
for hearing is educated until it can differentiate and analyse 
sounds. Then the impressions produced by continually 
recurring sounds are stored up and are remembered. 

So far we have traced the development of centres 
separately, as if each developed alone and independently 
of the others. This is not the case. As each centre 
develops so do its connections with other centres begin 
to be brought into being. Thus sounds begin to be 
associated with the pictures of certain objects that pro- 
duce the sounds. Then an object begins to be coupled 
in the mind with sounds that are continually repeated 
while the attention is being called to the object, and 
the child eventually associates certain sounds with objects 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 273 

that are familiar. At this stage the repetition of a 
certain sound will call up in the child's mind the picture 
of the object connected with it, and the child learns to 
associate words with objects and ideas. 



SPECIAL CENTRES. 

From an educational point of view some centres are of 
special importance. These are the centres concerned with 
speech, of which there are four, viz. : 

1. The auditory word centre. 

2. The motor speech centre. 

3. The visual word centre. 

4. The writing centre. 

The first and third are sensory centres, i.e. they deal 
with impulses received, while the second and fourth are 
motor centres, and have control of speech and the act of 
writing. 

These special centres are not on both sides of the brain, 
but on the left only. The auditory word centre, which 
develops as the child is showing signs of being able to 
distinguish special words and appreciate their meaning, 
is part of the hearing centre on the left side of the brain. 
Similarly the left visual word centre is part of the left 
centre for sight, and deals with the impulses caused by the 
images of written words. This centre is often developed 
entirely at school while the child is being taught to read 
words. From the above it will be understood that the left 
centres for sight and hearing each develop a special extra 
centre to deal particularly with words written and spoken. 
Similarly the left centre which controls the movements of 
the lips and tongue develops a special centre for dealing 
with speech (the motor speech centre), and the centre 
SCH. HYG. 18 



274 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 

controlling the movements of the right arm develops an 
additional one to control the particular act of writing. 

All these centres have fibres connecting each with the 
others, i.e. the two sensory centres are connected together 
and also with the two motor centres, and vice versa. By 
means of such connections we can immediately speak or 
write a word that we hear or see. 



DEVELOPMENT OF SPECIAL CENTRES. 

An infant learns, a,s we have already pointed out, to 
associate words with ideas, a process which is brought 
about by the development of the auditory word centre. 
This is followed by the development of the motor word, or 
speech, centre. Connections are then formed between the 
auditory word centre and the one for speech, and the child 
now attempts to imitate sounds that it hears, and educates 
its centre for speech by means of its auditory centre. Its 
first attempts are naturally wide of the mark, because not 
only are the muscles concerned with speech not properly 
under control, but also the child's hearing is not very 
acute, and it is unable to distinguish small differences 
between its own efforts and the sounds that it hears. 

The connections of the centre for sight with the auditory 
word and the speech centre are also being developed, and 
the child now becomes capable of complicated mental pro- 
cesses. Thus an object is seen, the sound (or name) 
associated with it is remembered, and the motor speech 
centre reproduces the remembered sound more or less 
accurately, i.e. the child can give the name to an object 
that is in view. This is a tremendous advance upon any 
previous mental process. Similarly a name is heard, the 
visual centre reproduces the mental picture associated with 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 5 

the word, and the child is able to pick out the object 
bearing the name. 

Associated with the development of these connections 
between centres is the increase in the capacity of each 
centre for storing up impressions, and so memory develops. 

In this stage of mental development the ordinary child 
reaches the teacher. At school the above centres should 
continue their growth, and their connections with each 
other should be gradually improved and strengthened. 
Two new centres, the writing centre and the visual word 
centre, have to be developed entirely at school, and these 
in their turn have to establish connections with each other 
and with other centres before they can attain their full 
usefulness and play their proper part in the education of 
the child. 

A proper appreciation of the above phenomena of de- 
velopment should be considered indispensable to all teachers 
and all people who profess to be interested in education. 
If this were so it would not be necessary for medical officers 
to have to spend so much time in trying to persuade 
teachers and well-meaning " experts in education " that 
it is quite hopeless to try to teach a child to read or write 
when there is no available visual word-centre ; or to write 
when there is no working centre for writing ; or to speak 
when there is no available speech centre, although such 
children may, in all other respects, possess good faculties. 



DEFECTIVE CHILDEE1ST. 

Great lack of development of the various centres and 
connections that are used in education gives rise to idiot 
and imbecile children. Such children rarely reach school 



2?6 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 

at all, as they are obvioiisly incapable of being educated by 
the ordinary school methods. But there are children who, 
while suffering from lack of development of some centre or 
centres, are not obviously abnormal before their education 
is attempted. It is convenient to describe the lower type 
of such children as "feeble-minded," and the higher type 
as " defective." Such children reach the schools in large 
numbers, but gain little or no advantage from the ordinary 
school teaching, usually remaining year after year in the 
lower standards of the school, learning little or nothing, 
and eventually receiving no attention at all. The ordinary 
school methods are wasted upon such children, and they 
need practically individual instruction. Specially treated 
they often make considerable improvement, and in many 
cases become sufficiently normal, after a time, to go back 
to the ordinary schools. It is obvious that so long as 
defective children are being educated together with normal 
children they are subjected to severe strain and hopeless 
competition which can only result in making the defect 
worse. Such children placed among those of similar 
mental calibre occasionally show a wonderful improvement 
in quite a short time. 

In 1895 a report was issued by the Committee, Parkes 
Museum, upon the result of examining a large number of 
children. About 100,000 children were reviewed, 9,777 
showed certain developmental defects (abnormalities of 
skull, ears, eyelids, palate, nasal bones), abnormal nerve 
signs in 10,355 cases, and 7,891 were mentally dull. The 
" exceptional " children included 2 idiots, 51 imbeciles, 
275 children feebly gifted mentally, 19 mentally exceptional, 
110 epileptics, and 5 deaf mutes. About 1'26 per cent, 
of the total number of children were found to require 
special instruction, while 7 per cent, of the total number 
were mentally dull. 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 27? 



VARIETIES OF DEFECTIVES. 

There are many varieties of defective children. If one 
or more of the special centres, i.e. the auditory word, motor 
speech, visual word, and writing centres, are affected, or if 
the communications between them have failed to become 
established, certain typical and easily understood results 
will follow. Thus if the auditory word centre is affected 
the condition known as " word deafness " results, and the 
child is unable to understand or remember what it is told. 
Such children do not recognise their own name when called, 
and are occasionally supposed to be deaf, or imbecile, which 
they are not. Instruction at a deaf school often does no 
good at all. Instruction by articulating and writing must 
be attempted, and is usually attended with excellent results. 
Many of these children are not mentally abnormal in any 
other direction. 

If the connection between the auditory word centre and 
the writing centre has failed to develop the child is unable 
to write to dictation, while an affect-ion of the writing 
centre itself will prevent writing altogether. 

Affections of the visual word centre cause " word blind- 
ness," the child being unable to remember or recognise 
letters or words. These children can write from transcrip- 
tion, but not to dictation. They can draw and can 
recognise pictures, and can often do ordinary arithmetic, 
but it is quite hopeless to attempt to teach a word-blind 
child to read or write. They cannot read a word, and they 
write rubbish. Other imperfections in the visual centre 
result in inability to perceive colour, and to acquire notions 
of form, size, extent, distance, and relief. 

In the same way any imperfection in the motor speech 
centre will affect the child's speech. 



278 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 

DETECTION. 

The proper detection and classification of mentally 
defective children can only be done by medical men 
experienced in school inspection, and the necessity for 
the early recognition of such cases constitutes one of the 
many reasons why systematic medical inspection and 
supervision of all school children should be enforced. If 
the child is to be rescued from a life of utter uselessness 
and dependence it is of vital importance that the condition 
should be recognised early in childhood. It is then possible, 
by special methods of teaching, to bring about wonderful 
improvement in some of these children by slowly and care- 
fully encouraging the development of the defective centres 
and their connections. Nevertheless it should be remem- 
bered that many children are backward and appear dull 
simply because the sight or hearing is defective, or because 
they have adenoid growths. When these physical defects 
are remedied the mental condition is found to become more 
nearly normal. Adenoid children in particular are liable 
to be looked upon as defective. They are often very dull 
and many cases have been found where it has been im- 
possible to teach them even the simplest matters. 

Although the actual diagnosis and classification of these 
mental conditions is essentially a matter for medical men, 
yet a good deal of the preliminary inspection, with a view 
to detecting abnormal conditions, may be carried out by a 
specially trained teacher. Simple tests, such as those 
known as Dr. Warner's methods, are as follows : 

1. The children are asked to hold out their hands in 
front of them. It is then easy to notice the balance of the 
hands, arms, spine, and shoulders, any peculiarities being 
noted. 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 279 

2. By placing one's hand 011 the child's head the size, 
form, bosses, etc., can be noted. Then measurements of 
the head may be taken. 

3. Another test is to hold in front of the child some 
small bright object which is held in the observer's hand. 
By telling the child to keep his eyes fixed on this, and by 
moving it to and fro, it is possible to obtain some idea as 
to the coordination of the eye muscles and the muscles of 
the face and neck, as well as a good view of the features 
and expression. 

4. The shape of the hard palate is another important 
observation. 

Special notes should always be made regarding the form 
and size of the head, general nutrition, abnormalities of 
feature, open mouth, nervous movements of the face, fore- 
head or fingers, etc. 

A good rule to bear in mind is that, in the majority of 
cases of marked deviation from the normal in formation or 
in development, or in the nervous system, such defects are 
accompanied by mental irregularity. As a result there 
should always be carefully noted the following con- 
ditions : 

Hare lip. Open mouth. 

Cleft or high palate. Dull vacant expression. 

Irregular and decayed teeth. Twitchings and tremors. 

Deficient ear lobes. Signs of feeble circulation. 

Abnormally placed earlobes. Peculiarities of skull. 

Indented nose. Defective powers of attention. 

Blue lips. Irritability. 
Peculiarities of skin, 



280 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 

SCHOOLS FOR DEFECTIVE CHILDREN. 

By the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic 
Children) Act 1899, the local education authority is 
empowered to provide special schools for these children. 
The Act is permissive only, but it enables school 
authorities to obtain grants towards the education of 
defective and epileptic children. In order to gain 
admission to such schools the children must be certified 
by the Education Medical Officer to be incapable, by 
reason of some mental or physical defect, of deriving 
benefit from the ordinary methods of teaching. It is 
not sufficient for the child to be merely backward or 
dull, nor are imbeciles to be admitted. The greatest 
care is necessary if any real good is hoped for. To fill 
such schools with obviously feeble-minded children is to 
waste public money and to effect very little improvement. 
The promising cases for such treatment are children with 
one or more defective centres, which by careful teaching 
may develop to almost a normal degree. 

It is not advisable to admit children under seven years old 
to the special schools, because good infant school teaching 
is often very beneficial to such cases. They may be retained 
in the special school until the age of sixteen, unless they 
develop sufficiently to return to the ordinary schools before 
reaching that age. The instruction at the schools should be 
given by teachers who have special aptitude for the work, 
and for successful results it is necessary to give individual 
attention and instruction, so that only small classes are 
possible. All the work should be under constant medical 
supervision. 

Great attention should be paid to articulation, and 
excellent results are obtainable even in bad cases. Speech 
of as normal a kind as possible is of the highest importance.. 






MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 281 

to such cases. Manual instruction is of special impor- 
tance to them, the teaching being of the kindergarten 
type for younger scholars, and technical instruction for the 
older ones. Physical exercise also demands extra time and 
attention, breathing exercises and eye movements being 
particularly useful. Judicious open-air exercise should be 
encouraged in every possible way, and all special physical 
defects should be duly considered in the plan of exercise 
for each scholar. It is of vital importance to remember 
that the best results are obtained by finding out what 
powers these children already have, and educating them on 
these lines. A great deal of valuable time is often wasted 
in attempting impossibilities in the way of reading, writing, 
and spelling. In Copenhagen various grades of defectives 
are received either in day classes or in residential institu- 
tions. For the teachable cases there is usually one teacher 
for eight or ten scholars. The older boys learn farming, 
brush, broom, and basket making ; the older girls being 
taught dairy and laundry work, or some form of weaving. 
Special schools should be situated in as good a position 
as possible, on a gravelly soil, and with a good elevation. 
The diet of the children should be plain, but liberal. Milk, 
oatmeal porridge, cocoa, bread, eggs, vegetables, fruit, and 
a little meat (except in epileptic cases) should be the main 
articles of diet. Warm clothing is indispensable, and 
special attention to the hands and feet is necessary. 

Parents' Position. 

Parents very often offer objection to the attendance of 
their children at special schools, and under the Act the 
parent has the right to request the school authorities to 
examine from time to time (intervals not less than 
six months) any child attending such schools, in order to 
ascertain whether the child has improved sufficiently to be 



282 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 

fit to attend the ordinary schools again. As a matter of 
fact every authority should arrange for all such children 
to be examined at far shorter intervals than six months. 
Medical examination is desirable at least every three months. 
Improved cases are sent back to the ordinary schools and 
degenerating cases are excluded as imbeciles. It is 
desirable that some special method of dealing with these 
degenerated cases should be devised. 

EPILEPTIC CHILDEEN. 

It is estimated that 1 per 1,000 children is epileptic, and 
that one-sixth of these are severely afflicted. If the 
attacks are rare, and not violent, there is no reason why 
such children should not attend ordinary schools, provided 
that the intelligence is normal. Unfortunately the disease 
often causes rapid deterioration of intelligence, so that 
special teaching is frequently necessary. Severe cases 
should be treated in residential homes, and should receive 
constant medical attention. It is desirable that each house 
of residence should be of one storey only, and should 
contain not more than 20 cases. 

CAUSES OF MENTAL DEFICIENCY. 

Among the causes of mental deficiency in children one 
of the most important is undoubtedly heredity. A family 
history of mental weakness is traceable in about 21 per 
cent, of the cases, while the taint of consumptive tendency 
is found in nearly 30 per cent. Alcohol probably plays 
the greatest part of all, parental intemperance being found 
in about 24 per cent., and a much larger number probably 
suffering as the result of the effects of alcohol upon the 
offspring even when taken in moderation. The common 
Jiabit of women, during the period of pregnancy, to partakq 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 283 

somewhat freely of sucli alcoholic liquids as stout, etc., 
undoubtedly tends to cause deterioration of nerve tissue 
in the child. 

Circumstances, surroundings, parental neglect, deficient 
and injudicious food, all play important parts in the pro- 
duction of the stunted, dull, and mentally feeble child 
a fairly common type in town schools. Occasionally the 
condition is the result of injury, particularly injury at 
birth, while in others it is said to be caused by a fright 
or shock. Convulsions or epilepsy are well known fore- 
runners of mental deficiency, and occasionally it follows as 
a result of a severe attack of scarlet fever, measles, or 
whooping cough. 

It is difficult to give a satisfactory classification of the 
various causes and conditions associated with mental 
deficiency. A common method is to divide them into the 
congenital and the non- congenital. 

CONGENITAL CONDITIONS. 

1. Microcephalus, or the congenitally small head. In its 
extreme form it is characteristic of a low type of idiocy. 
Such heads are not only small in circumference (17 inches 
or less), but also have a characteristically narrowed and 
rapidly receding forehead. Above this type there are all 
grades of deficiency up to the ordinary mentally defective 
child. Between 18 and 19 inches in circumference is a 
common measurement in imbeciles. Nineteen or 20 inches 
's a common measurement in the feeble-minded. 

2. Hydrocephalus or Macrocephalus, or the abnormally 
large head (sometimes of non-congenital origin). Associated 
with this condition are varying degrees of intelligence, from 
a low form of mental defectiveness up to an unusually high 
degree of intelligence. 



284 MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 

3. Tubercle. Tubercle plays a very decided and impor- 
tant part in the causation of mental deficiency. Some 
hereditary taint of tuberculosis is commonly found, while 
in other cases there is actual personal infection, such as 
tuberculosis of joints, glands, or serous membranes. 

4. Cretinism (absence or atrophy of the thyroid gland) . 
This is another congenital taint or condition associated 
with mental defects. Some cases are normal at birth, but 
gradually develop the characteristic signs, viz. : Coarse, 
dry, thin hair ; low and narrow forehead ; swollen eyelids, 
hands, and feet; full and flabby cheeks; large mouth; 
large and distended abdomen. Cretins remain almost 
stationary as far as physical and mental development are 
concerned, so that adult age is reached while the appearance 
and mental powers are those of an infant. 

5. Neurotic conditions. Many of these are hereditary, 
and the mental deficiency dates from birth. Alcoholism 
in either or both parents is a common cause of these 
conditions. 

NON-CONGENITAL CONDITIONS. 

These are subdivided into the developmental and the 
accidental or acquired. 

Developmental. 

This term is applied to cases where actual mental 
deficiency supervenes upon a brain originally imperfect in 
development, although not noticeably so. These forms of 
mental weakness become evident at some crisis of develop- 
ment, such as dentition or puberty. 

1. Convulsions. A history of convulsions during in- 
fancy, especially during dentition, is common in cases of 
mental weakness, 



MENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MENTAL DEFICIENCIES. 285 

2. Persistent epilepsy. A gradual deterioration in 
mental power usually accompanies persistent epilepsy. 

Accidental or Acquired. 

1. Injury. Inflammation of the brain or its membranes 
may be set up by injury. 

2. Shock. All kinds of events, such as the bite of a dog, 
likely to give a sudden fright or shock, have been said 
to commence the history of mental weakness in many 
cases. 

3. Poisons. The administration of poisons, such as 
alcohol or opium, to children always produces deterioration 
of the mental powers. 



CHAPTER IV. 

COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 
ANAEMIA. 

A LARGE proportion of town children (boys and girls) are 
suffering from a deficient vitality that appears to be caused 
mainly by a diminution of the number of red corpuscles in 
the blood. Such a condition constitutes one of the forms 
of anaemia. It is brought about by badly ventilated rooms, 
by improper food, by insufficient sleep and exercise in the 
open air. The crimson colour of the lips diminishes in 
intensity and in the worse forms becomes pallid ; the child 
becomes languid, drowsy, and disinclined for exertion, and 
is quickly fatigued ; headaches and fainting attacks become 
common ; the appetite diminishes and becomes morbid, 
indigestible messes being preferred to solid food, and 
occasionally a fondness for slate pencil, chalk, or coal is 
developed. Such children should receive medical attention, 
and all the teacher can do is to see that the rooms are well 
ventilated and that the child is excused part of the lessons 
and encouraged to take exercise in the open air. 

BONE CONDITIONS 

1. Curved Spine. 

The association of this condition with the badly con- 
structed desks has already been discussed. A lateral curva- 
ture is not at all uncommon among children of over twelve 

286 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 287 

years. All kinds of work or any desks that conduce to 
improper attitudes of standing or sitting are active causes 
of the deformity. Other causes include the habitual use 
of a high pillow in bed, so that the spine is bent when the 
child is lying asleep on its side, and the carrying of a 
heavy satchel. By keeping a vigilant eye on the children's 
attitudes a teacher can do much to prevent such deformities 
developing, and by careful physical exercises may help to 
remedy the defect when produced. More serious curvatures 
are those caused by rickets and by tuberculous disease of 
the bones. In the latter case the curve is usually more 
acute than in the former. There is also a tendency to 
special stiffness of the spine, particularly in the affected 
region. 

2. Flat Foot. 

This is another condition commonly caused by rickets. 
It is nearly always an acquired condition and is often found 
in weakly children about twelve years old. The muscles 
of the foot and the ligaments that support the bony arch 
of the instep become weakened by rickets or rheumatism, 
or by general conditions, such as acute fevers, with the 
result that the arch flattens down. The condition can be 
greatly improved, in many cases, by skipping exercises on 
the toes, and by exercises causing the body to be raised on 
tip-toe several times in succession. It should always 
receive attention, as it develops into a most painful con- 
dition and will be much more difficult to cure later on. 

3. Affected Joints. 

The commonest joint disease in schools is tuberculosis. 
The tuberculous joint exists in many varieties, and only a 
medical man can decide whether a joint is tuberculous or 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

not. The hip and the knee are often affected. If a child 
is seen to be getting into a habit of standing with the 
weight of the body mainly on one leg, and rests one foot 
on the other, the medical officer's attention should be called 
to the fact. Limping, dragging, or rigidity of joints show 
that the disease is getting well advanced. There may be 
pain in the hip or knee. 

The condition should receive immediate attention, and 
the child should be excluded from school altogether. 

4. Rickets. 

Kickets is a disease of very common occurrence in schools 
in poor districts. It particularly affects the children who 
suffer from the effects of bad feeding, incorrect feeding, 
and bad housing conditions. Special common causes 
include feeding upon condensed milk during infancy, 
deficiency of fresh milk, deficiency of fats, excess of starchy 
food, lack of fresh air, etc. The effects are probably 
caused by certain poisonous materials that are formed in 
the stomach or intestines by bacterial action. The rickety 
child is usually distinguished by certain signs that are the 
effects of the disease upon the body. These are the square 
head ; the beaded ribs ; the narrow and constricted chest ; 
curved spine and bent legs; enlarged wrists, ankles, or 
knees ; knock-knee or flat-foot ; brittleness of bones, pre- 
disposing to fracture; general enfeeblement and pallor, 
and delayed development ; and a marked liability to catch 
cold and acquire various diseases, particularly lung diseases. 

The most important matter is to correct the general 
home conditions, and this is usually impossible. In school 
the child should receive extra consideration, should not be 
over-worked, and should be excused much standing. Care- 
ful physical exercises and plenty of play in the open air 
will do much to improve matters. 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 289 

CHILLS AND COLDS. 

Children improperly clothed, and especially those who 
are shut up in overheated and badly ventilated rooms, are 
liable to chills and colds. These may develop in their turn 
into severe illness. Severe " cold in the head" appears to 
be a highly infectious disorder, and any child with obvious 
symptoms of such should be sent home. 

CHOREA OR ST. VITUS' DANCE. 

Chorea is a severe nervous disorder which is common 
among school children over seven years old. It is probably 
caused by some special form of bacterial life and is usually 
associated with rheumatism. Sometimes it follows the 
acute fevers scarlet fever, measles, whooping cough 
and occasionally is said to follow a fright or shock. Badly 
decayed teeth are common among children suffering from 
chorea. 

In. mild cases the child may simply appear to be clumsy 
and awkward, but in the more marked and severe forms 
there are very obvious signs which vary according to the 
part of the body involved. The muscular twitchings may 
be limited to the face, or one limb, or one side of the body, 
or they may be general. If the face is affected the child 
appears to be continually "making faces," on account of 
the curious jerkiiigs and twitchings of the muscles of the 
lips, nose, eyes, and cheeks. The speech is often affected. 
When asked to put out his tongue such a child usually 
jerks it out and in again and snaps together the teeth. 
All the movements of this disease are increased in in- 
tensity by excitement or by the knowledge that anyone is 
watching. 

When the arms or legs are affected there is usually a 
sen. HY<J. 19 



290 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

constantly repeated, purposeless movement caused by the 
contraction of the same muscles over and over again. The 
child is never at rest. Mentally the child is in the same 
condition, being unable to concentrate his attention, besides 
being morbid, excitable, irritable, and quarrelsome. 

The condition often lasts about ten or twelve weeks^ and 
the child is unfit to attend school during the whole of the 
period. School work will only tend to intensify the ill 
effects, and no child should be allowed to return to school 
while the slightest trace of the signs is noticeable. 



DIARRHOEA. 

Diarrhoea among children commonly assumes an epi- 
demic character during the later summer months. The 
disease is more prevalent during a hot dry summer than in 
cold and wet ones. Usually a marked connection can be 
traced between the temperature of the soil and the number 
of cases of the disease. It is practically limited to bottle- 
fed children, those fed entirely at the breast nearly always 
escaping. There seems to be no doubt that the disease is 
caused by pollution of the food by dirt and dust. Flies 
probably play a very important part in the spread of the 
disease. 

Children suffering from diarrhoea should be sent home 
from school, and the parents should be advised to seek 
medical attention for them. 



EYE DISEASES. 

The matters connected with defects of* vision have 
already been discussed. It now remains to mention some 
common conditions in the region of the eye. 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 291 

1. " Red Eyes." 

The commonest condition is the one in which the edges 
of the eyelids are inflamed and red. It usually indicates 
that the child is out of health and needs attention. Dirty 
and neglected children, particularly if of a tubercular 
tendency, are most liable. On the other hand it may be 
due to a defect of vision. 

In the worse type of case the glutinous secretion from 
the inflamed edge sticks together the eyelashes in clumps. 
Scabs are formed, and the eyelashes are often removed with 
them. 

The parents should be reminded that great care and 
cleanliness are necessary, and that the child requires 
medical attention. 



2. Stye. 

Styes are common amongst weakly, poorly fed, and 
neglected children, and they may occur as the result of 
defects of vision. They are caused by the obstruction of 
the ducts of small glands that open on the edge of the eye- 
lid. The obstruction causes the gland to become inflamed 
and the stye results. It appears as a round, reddened 
swelling on the edge of the lid, and gives rise to a 
great deal of pain and inconvenience. In cases where 
they appear in crops the vision should be carefully 
tested. 



3. Twitching. 

The usual cause of twitching of the eyelids is some error 
of vision or, less frequently, some local condition of the 
eyelids. 



292 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

4. Inflamed Eyeball. 

Children suffering from a redness of the " white of the 
eye " or conjunctiva, together with " watering " and fear of 
the light, should be rigidly excluded from school. Many 
such conditions are of an infectious character and would 
spread through the school, while those conditions which 
give rise to the above signs, but are not infectious, render 
it desirable that the child should not be troubled with 
school work. 

HEADACHES. 

All teachers are familiar with children who are continu- 
ally complaining of headache. In every case it should be 
regarded as a symptom caused by some disorder possibly 
a very serious one. 

(1) The commonest cause of all is probably eye strain. 
It has already been pointed out that children with defective 
vision often suffer from headache caused by the strain of 
the eyes. When the defect is remedied and the trying 
conditions are removed the headache disappears as if by 
magic. 

(2) Another common cause of headache is an unhealthy 
condition of the throat and nose. Nasal catarrh and 
adenoids are particularly liable to cause headaches, and the 
child who frequently has a cold in the head is a continual 
sufferer in this way. 

(3) Unhealthy conditions of the alimentary tract prove 
a fertile cause of headaches in children. Bad teeth and 
indigestion, singly or together, and constipation are com- 
monly associated with headaches. 

(4) General conditions, such as anaemia, rheumatism, 
debility, and malnutrition, in many cases are found to exist 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 293 

in children who are continually complaining of headache 
when they have done some small amount of mental work, 

(5) Highly nervous children, and particularly children 
about the critical age of fourteen, frequently suffer from 
headaches. 

(6) A bad headache, especially in the case of a child not 
usually complaining, may indicate an approaching attack 
of some serious acute disorder, such as measles, scarlet 
fever, diphtheria, or pneumonia. 

(7) Although the above lengthy list provides ample 
possibilities for explaining a headache in a child, yet the 
first thing that should occur to a teacher when members 
of the class are complaining is the possibility of the cause 
being the badly ventilated and overheated condition of the 
room. It is important for a teacher to bear in mind the 
fact that the room may have become excessively foul so 
gradually that the senses have failed to notice any special 
pollution. With this exception it should be definitely 
understood that healthy children never suffer from head- 
ache, and that they are always an indication that something 



HEART DISEASE. 

A child may be suspected to be suffering from heart 
disease in the following instances : 

(1) Puny under- developed children with expanded finger 
ends (clubbing), and pale or livid skin. 

(2) Dull children, with an obvious lack of energy and 
vitality associated with some lack of bodily development. 

(3) Children who are rapidly exhausted by physical 
exercise, and become breathless after any unusual exertion. 

(4) Attacks of faintness and fainting are often indica- 
tions of heart disease. 



294 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

(5) A bad circulation, evidenced by cold hands and feet, 
chilblains, etc., may indicate heart disease. 

It is usual to recognise three kinds of affections of the 
heart, viz. : 

I. Congenital Affections. 

Some children are born with the heart defective. If the 
defect is serious the child dies quickly, sometimes a few 
minutes after birth. The less serious cases may reach 
school age, but the children are always deficient in vitality, 
and the greatest possible laxity should be allowed. They 
rarely reach adult life. 

II. Organic or Acquired Heart Disease. 

Many of these cases are caused by rheumatism, although 
any history of a typical attack of rheumatic fever is rare. 
More usually it is possible to find the rheumatic association 
by a history of " growing pains," vague pains in the joints 
and limbs, attacks of tonsilitis and sore throat, or attacks 
of chorea (St. Vitus' dance). Other cases are caused by 
previous attacks of scarlet fever, measles, diphtheria, or 
other infectious disorders. In all cases the valves of the 
heart are injured in such a way as to prevent the heart 
working properly. 

III. Functional Disorders. 

This is the term applied to those cases where the 
heart appears to be sound and properly developed, but 
where the beat of the heart is too rapid, or too slow, or 
irregular, or where the child suffers from palpitation. 
Common causes of such conditions are anaemia and dis- 
turbances of the alimentary tract. 

Children suffering from heart disease should receive 
extra indulgence wherever possible. Physical exercises 



J 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 295 

should be very carefully graduated according to their 
capacity, and there should be no possibility of strain 
allowed. If the child is properly looked after at home and 
at school it is always possible that the heart may develop 
in such a way as to minimise the defect from which it 
suffers. This is called compensation. 

INDIGESTION. 

Faulty and improper digestion is common among school 
children. Among the better class children it is often due 
to excessive feeding or to rich and indigestible food. 
Among poor children the digestive system shares the 
general debility of the body, and the unhealthy condition 
is often intensified by improper food. Children should 
receive nothing but plain wholesome food, and any devia- 
tion from this rule usually inflicts its own penalty. Bad 
teeth will always upset digestion, not only by interfering 
with the proper mastication of the food, but also by the 
swallowing of poisonous matter from the decayed parts. 
Indigestion is the frequent cause of anaemia, headaches, 
constipation and diarrhoea, as well as many other common 
conditions of ill-health among children. 

SKIN DISEASES. 

The majority of skin diseases from which school children 
are likely to suffer are infectious, and the general rule of 
excluding such children from school should be adopted. 
In most cases the condition is the result of uncleanliness 
and overcrowding. 

1. The commonest condition is the presence of sores and 
crusts on the scalp, especially of girls. Upon closer ex- 
amination the presence of vermin is almost invariably 
Detected. The worse forms, with great masses of crusts 



296 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

and enlarged glands or even abscesses at the back of the 
neck, are disgusting to look at, and to the inexperienced 
eye appear to be dreadful cases to deal with. The 
observer will be astonished to notice how wonderfully these 
cases clear up directly the vermin have been entirely 
eliminated by the processes already described. The in- 
fection is caused and the acute condition is continually 
maintained by the scratching of the scalp by the child. 
This goes on continually while vermin are present, and 
poisoning of the skin is inevitable. Beyond the elimina- 
tion of the vermin the only necessary treatment is the 
softening of the crusts by poulticing or bathing in hot 
water, and their removal. This condition should not be 
ealled eczema. 

2. Impetigo. 

This disease usually affects the skin at the angles of the 
mouth and on the chin. Small blisters appear in the 
middle of red patches. These afterwards become yellow, 
dry up, and form yellow crusts. It is extremely contagious 
and affected children must be excluded from school. It 
usually occurs among dirty and neglected children, and 
rapidly spreads from one member of the family to another 
If neglected it may spread through a whole school. 

3. Eczema. 

All skin diseases among children are popularly known 
as eczema. The real disease is quite common, especially 
in children about five years old, and the appearance varies 
from a simple scaliness to an angry-looking wet red patch 
that afterwards forms crusts. Although there is no 
reason to regard it as very contagious, yet it is advisable 
to exclude all affected children. 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 297 

4. Ringworm. 

This term includes a group of skin diseases produced by 
a kind of fungus. Occasionally schools are visited by an 
epidemic of ringworm, and teachers should be alive to the 
fact that a single case neglected may cause nearly all the 
other scholars to become infected. The disease is caused 
by a fungus, or vegetable parasite, which attacks the roots 
of the hairs, and the typical signs of the disease may be 
found 011 the scalp or scattered over the body. 

The beginning is usually a small red scaly spot which 
gradually spreads evenly so as to produce circular patches. 
The hairs in the affected area become brittle and break off, 
leaving the patches bare. By the coalescence of two or 
more of the circular patches the affected areas may become 
irregular in shape. If neglected the condition may persist 
for years, and may result in permanent loss of hair over 
the affected area, but spontaneous cure often takes place 
after a long time. 

In order to verify the diagnosis, and particularly in order 
to ascertain whether a cure has been effected, it is necessary 
for the medical officer to make a microscopical examination 
of hairs from the affected area. 

The affected children should be removed from school. 
It is extremely contagious and spreads easily by means 
of hats, gloves, towels, hair brushes. The slightest particle 
of scale from the infected area is sufficient to infect another 
child or another part of the same child. If any child 
showing the slightest sign of the disease is at once dis- 
missed and reported, there should be no difficulty in keep- 
ing the schools free from this infection. Unfortunately 
many teachers neglect to take this precaution, and as a 
result the disease is often spreading actively through 
schools , 



zy COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

5. Favus. 

This is the name given to a more serious affection 
of the scalp. It is due to another vegetable parasite which 
attacks the roots of the hairs. The cure is extremely 
difficult. 

Pale yellow cup-shaped patches form on the scalp, and 
afterwards fuse with each other to form greyish crusts. 
The hairs become brittle, and bald patches are formed as 
in ringworm. A characteristic and unmistakable mouse- 
like smell is emitted from the crusts. In every case 
immediate and total exclusion from school is urgently 
necessary. 



6. Itch or Scabies. 

The itch insect usually attacks the skin between the 
fingers, where the skin is thin. 
It is very minute, and the female 
burrows into the skin, unnoticed 
at first, but afterwards causing 
itching and redness. Under the 
skin she lays her eggs, which 
hatch in about fourteen days. 
The young ones then burrow 
afresh on their own account, and 
so the disease spreads. The in- 
tense itching causes vigorous 
scratching, and this results in 
considerable inflammation of the 
skin, with the formation of fairly 
typical crusts. 

The itch is very contagious, the slightest contact being 
sufficient to cause infection. It is also conveyed by infected 
garments and bedclothes, all of which require disinfection 




Fig. 98. 

THE ITCH INSECT. 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 299 

before the disease can be stamped out. Infected children 
should be rigidly excluded from school. 



THEOAT CONDITIONS. 

1. Adenoids. 

Adenoids are soft growths attached to the mucous mem- 
brane of the nasopharynx or the cavity at the back of the 
nose. They are unfortunately very common among all 
classes of children. Heredity plays some part as a predis- 
posing cause, but the actual cause is unknown. Enlarged 
tonsils are often associated with this condition. They may 
commence to grow after an attack of measles or whooping 
cough, and a probable predisposing cause is mouth breath- 
ing, which is acquired by many children merely as a bad 
habit. At the age of fourteen they tend to disappear 
spontaneously, but in many cases they have been the cause 
of irreparable mischief by that time. Their effects are 
numerous and are best discussed separately. 

(a) Depression and discomfort. A child suffering from 
adenoids is continually feeling depressed and uncomfortable. 

(6) Mouth breathing. Owing to the 'obstruction of the 
nasopharynx the child finds it difficult or impossible to 
breathe through the nose. The mouth is therefore always 
open, and this gives a dull and stupid appearance to the 
face, which gradually acquires a mask-like look that is 
incapable of expressing either joy or sorrow. 

(c) Dulness and stupidity. Not only does the face look 
stupid and dull, but the mental condition quickly follows 
suit, and the child becomes backward and incapable of 
doing much mental work. Examples are common where 
such children have been regarded as mentally defective, 
but it is important to remember that their mental appa- 
ratus is quite normal in every respect except that the brain 



300 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

is clouded, as it were, by their complaint. The writer well 
remembers two extreme cases that were presented to him 
by their teachers as badly defective mentally. These 
children had each been at school about two years, and had 
not yet succeeded in learning the alphabet. Fortunately 
it was possible to get these cases properly treated, and on 
their return to school they rapidly became normal children 
and made good progress. It is very probable that large 
numbers of adenoid children are at the present time 
being " educated " at special centres for mentally defective 
children. Of course this is the result of inadequate 
medical supervision, and not only wastes public money, 
but also fails to educate at all a child who is capable of 
being educated in the ordinary way. 

(d) Fatigue. Directly any mental work is attempted 
the child gets a headache and suffers from mental fatigue. 
This is due to the difficulty that there is in getting away 
the waste products from the brain. Such children are 
constantly complaining of headache. 

(e) Dead Speech. Owing to the absence of resonance 
the speech acquires a characteristic dead quality, and there 
is difficulty with the letters m and n, b and d being sub- 
stituted. Thus the child says " by " instead of " my," and 
"do " instead of " no." 

(/) Deafness. In many cases the opening of the 
eustachian tube into the pharynx becomes blocked and 
deafness results. 

(g) Chest deformities. The obstruction that prevents 
free and easy respiration causes extra strong action of the 
diaphragm in the effort to fill the chest. In young children 
this may result in serious deformity. The sternum is 
pushed out and often bent, while the lower and lateral 
parts of the chest are retracted, producing the condition 
known as " pigeon eldest." If adenoids are present in a 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 301 

rickety child, a common combination, these effects are 
very pronounced. A long narrow chest is produced and 
the child is predisposed to consumption. 

If the obstruction begins at about the age of ten the 
forced respiratory efforts produce a barrel- shaped condition 
of the chest. 

(h) " Veiled look." The eyes of adenoid children often 
have a characteristic appearance that has been called the 
" veiled look." This is caused by the lower lid covering 
more of the eye than it normally does. The explanation 
is that connecting the muscle of the lower lid with the 
ring of muscle surrounding the mouth there are small 
muscular bands which, when the mouth is kept closed, hold 
the lower eyelid down. If the mouth is perpetually open 
this tension is relaxed, and the lower lid creeps a little 
way up the eyeball. 

The lot of the adenoid child is not a happy one. He is 
looked upon as stupid and dull ; is often punished for not 
doing mental work that he is quite incapable of perform- 
ing; and is disliked, ridiculed, and avoided by the other 
children. If he survives till the age of fourteen he loses 
the adenoids, but they have so crippled his development 
that he usually falls an early and easy prey to con- 
sumption a few years later. 

Treatment. Directly the condition is recognised the 
parents should be urged to seek medical aid. By the 
removal of these growths many of the children rapidly 
become normal in every way, and the author can recall 
several instances of adenoid children, previously regarded 
as being mentally defective, rapidly becoming bright and 
alert and active after the removal of the growths. The 
earlier that they are removed the better will be the result, 
because their presence hampers and hinders the proper 
development of the child. It is only by systematic physical 



302 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

examination of the scholars that the detection of early 
cases can be hoped for. 

Probably much can be done to prevent the growth of 
adenoids by proper breathing exercises several times a day 
with the mouth closed. Children should be most definitely 
instructed to keep the mouth closed. By these means the 
membrane of the nose and pharynx is kept in a healthy 
condition. 

It is very probable that mouth breathing, as a bad habit, 
is an important cause of adenoids by making the mucous 
membrane of those regions unhealthy. Systematic breath- 
ing exercises with the mouth closed, several times a day, in 
the open air or with widely open windows, would serve 
to keep the membrane healthy and check the tendency 
towards adenoids. Probably large numbers of adenoid 
children die of consumption during early adult life, and so 
by preventing the growth of adenoids, and by their prompt 
removal when they do occur, the great number of deaths 
from consumption may possibly be decreased. Teachers 
should remember that if they can persuade the parents of 
such children to obtain treatment for them they will 
not only be doing a public service, but will also help 
in wholly changing the lives of these miserable little 
unfortunates. 

2. Enlarged Tonsils. 

Enlarged tonsils are often associated with adenoids, and 
in some cases are the direct result of mouth breathing. 
The condition can be easily recognised by inspection of the 
throat. In some schools an astonishingly large percentage 
of the children (as many as 30 or 40 per cent.) show en- 
largement of the tonsils, and it is often an indication that 
the housing conditions of the locality are inferior. If the 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 303 

enlargement is considerable similar results to those pro- 
duced by adenoids may be brought about. Mouth breath- 
ing and deafness are particularly common accompaniments. 
Also such children are particularly liable to throat affec- 
tions, diphtheria, ulcerated throat, quinsy, etc., and also 
rheumatic fever. Teachers should suggest to the parents 
that such children require medical attention. 

3. Sore Throats. 

A child suffering from sore throat should always be at 
once placed in a desk to itself, because the condition is 
probably infectious. It is most important to remember 
that such cases may be suffering from diphtheria, and may 
set up a severe epidemic in the school. The fact that the 
child is liable to sore throat is not any reason why the 
above rule should not be observed. During epidemics of 
diphtheria and scarlet fever all children suffering from sore 
throat should be sent home and should be reported to the 
medical officers. Teachers should also realise the im- 
portance of the fact that children who do not suffer from 
any soreness of the throat may have the germs of diphtheria 
or an infectious disease in the throat, and may be spreading 
the disease among the scholars. A valuable indication of 
any mischief in the region of the throat is the presence of 
hard glands in the region of the angle of the jaw. Daring 
times of epidemic teachers are strongly recommended to 
make this examination, and to submit all children possessing 
such hard glands to the medical officer at once. During a 
throat epidemic at Handsworth, the writer found the help 
of the teachers in this direction most valuable, and a large 
number of infected children were discovered in this way. 
By excluding these children the epidemic was effectually 
and speedily stamped out. 



CHAPTEK V. 



CONSUMPTION. 

CONSUMPTION may be described as essentially a disease 
of civilisation. It is in this country the most prominent 
cause of death. It is now known that the disease is actually 
set up by a special form of bacterial life called the tubercle 
bacillus. This germ may attack any part of the body. If 
it attacks the skin it produces a mild but extremely dis- 
figuring disorder. When it attacks glands it becomes 
more serious, and tuberculous bones and joints are still 
more dangerous to life. The commonest site of attack is 
the lungs, where it causes phthisis or consumption. Among 
children the parts commonly affected include the intestines 
and the brain, resulting in an enormous mortality. 

Children are liable to all forms of tuberculosis, but par- 
ticularly to this affection of the glands, bones, and brain, 
forms of the disease that are not common in adults. 
Phthisis is probably the most infectious form, on account 
of the greater likelihood of the bacilli being scattered 
about by the sufferer. A single case of consumption in a 
school, among teachers or scholars, will be quite sufficient 
to cause dozens of cases of tuberculous glands, bones, brain, 
and lungs among the children, each child affected being 
attacked according to its personal susceptibility. 

The havoc wrought by consumption is enormous. It is 
estimated that one-eleventh of the whole civilised world 

304 



CONSUMPTION. 305 

dies of consumption, and in Europe alone the deaths 
number at least one million a year. By rendering people 
incapable of work it increases the number of paupers by 
about ten per cent., and costs this country about a million 
pounds a year in maintaining- them. It has been estimated 
that the working classes of this country lose ten million 
pounds a year in wages owing to consumption. The 
frequency with which the tubercle bacillus attacks children 
may be imagined from the following annual number of 
deaths among them : 

6000 die of tuberculosis of brain 
5300 intestines 

4000 (general) 

1400 ,, bones and joints. 

The above figures tell only part of the tale. They give 
no information as to terrible damage done by the disease 
in the way of affected glands and skin, causing disfigure- 
ment and misery, as well as diseased bones and joints 
which cripple for life. 

The death rate due to consumption is always greater in 
towns than in country districts. This difference is probably 
due almost entirely to the filthy and dusty workshops and 
the overcrowded and dirty condition of the schools. 

CAUSES OF CONSUMPTION. 

As in the case of all diseases the causes may be divided 
into the predisposing and the determining. The immediate 
or determining cause of consumption is the tubercle 
bacillus. This organism has considerable powers of vitality 
and can live a long time in the air and among dust and 
dirt, but is killed by five minutes' exposure to bright 
sunlight. It probably obtains access to the air from the 
sputum of consumptive patients, who often spit about in a 
sen. HYG. 20 



306 CONSUMPTION. 

most reckless fashion. This material gradually dries up, 
becomes powdered, and forms part of the dust of 
workshops, schools, public-houses, public buildings, tram- 
cars, etc. Such dust, when inhaled, may set up consump- 
tion in the person who has taken in the bacillus. 

When such causes are considered there can no longer be 
any wonder that consumption is so common when a single 
case is able in this way to infect hundreds of other people. 
As a matter of fact many more people are actually 
attacked than is generally known. About twenty-five per 
cent, of the post-mortem examinations that are made upon 
all subjects reveal healed-up patches in the lungs, showing 
that some time during life the tubercle bacillus had made 
an attack upon the lung tissue and had done some damage, 
but had been eventually defeated and exterminated. 

In spite of the omnipresence of the tubercle bacillus 
only a small proportion of people are actually attacked by 
it with success. Everyone inhales and swallows these 
germs from time to time and yet in the majority of cases 
no harm is done. The explanation is that the germ, in all 
probability, can do no damage unless some predisposing 
cause or causes have been doing their part previously in 
rendering the body susceptible to the attack of the tubercle 
bacillus. In fact it is at the present time customary to 
grossly exaggerate the importance of direct infection in 
cases of tuberculosis and to pay far too little attention to 
the predisposing causes. 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES. 

1. Heredity. 

In about fifty per cent, of the cases there is a family 
history of the disease. It must, however, be understood 
definitely that heredity can convey a predisposition only 



CONSUMPTION. 307 

and that in many of the cases where heredity has appeared 
to be a cause the explanation is really that common con- 
ditions have produced the same effect upon different 
members of the family. 

2. Decreased Vitality from Disease. 

People suffering from chronic diseases that have slowly 
sapped their strength and vitality are particularly liable to 
consumption. Also children and adults who have passed 
through an attack of diseases such as whooping cough, 
measles, influenza that are liable to leave the lungs weak 
are specially susceptible. 

3. Dust. 

Exposure to dusty atmospheres not only has an irritating 
effect upon the lungs and predisposes them to a successful 
attack by the tubercle bacillus, but often actually supplies 
the bacillus at the same time. Dusty and dirty workshops, 
houses, public-houses, places, and conveyances predispose 
to consumption, in addition to providing the tubercle 
bacillus in many cases amongst the dust. 

4. Bad Ventilation and Overcrowding. 

This predisposing cause is most actively at work in over- 
crowded and badly ventilated workshops, public- houses, 
public buildings, and schools, and to a smaller extent in 
dwelling houses. 

5. Injudicious or Deficient Food. 

Perhaps this is the most important of all the predis- 
posing causes of tuberculosis. A large proportion of town 
children are diseased, dwarfed, and undeveloped as a result 
of injudicious or deficient food. During infancy a con- 
siderable percentage of the children are artificially fed and 



308 CONSUMPTION-. 

as a direct result are more liable to die and are handicapped 
if they live. It has been shown, that bottle-fed babies are 
thirty times more liable to die than those that are breast- 
fed, and those that survive usually have a decreased vitality 
and resisting power. The damage is further increased 
by the unsatisfactory milk supply of towns. In other 
cases the quantity and quality of the mother's milk is 
deficient. 

To prevent the terrible sacrifice of life owing to the 
above causes public funds should be available. Money 
would be far more usefully spent upon the children than 
upon expensive sanatoria that can treat only a few adults 
and will leave the main cause of the disease quite un- 
touched. The money should be spent upon feeding the 
children with wholesome food, improving the milk supply, 
and removing the causes of the enormous infantile 
mortality. 

In towns a reliable milk supply is not obtainable by the 
poor, and in their present condition of ignorance they 
would not buy it if they could. Education upon such 
important subjects can only be successfully carried out in 
the schools, and meanwhile the dealer who tampers with 
the milk supply, in the way of diluting, adding preserva- 
tives, or removing cream, should be treated as a criminal. 
Either the whole trade must be revolutionised or there 
must be a municipal milk supply in every town. Pure 
milk in clean bottles at a fair price should be obtainable 
by everyone. 

The subject of predisposition to consumption is closely 
connected with the question of infantile mortality. One 
sixth of the children die before they are one year old. 
Many are killed, but a greater number are wounded and 
continue an existence with lowered vitality and decreased 
developmental powers. Many of the survivors are maimed 



CONSUMPTION. 309 

and stunted and remain as weaklings for a few years 
longer, being ultimately killed by consumption. The 
problem of infantile mortality is intimately associated with 
deficient and injudicious feeding. 

6. Alcohol. 

Alcoholic indulgence not only predisposes the individual 
to consumption, but also renders the offspring liable to be 
attacked by the disease. 

7. Special School Conditions. 

In schools there are special conditions that predispose to 
consumption. 

(a) Desks. Unsuitable desks and the resulting bad 
postures hinder proper development. 

(6) Ventilation. Bad ventilation and the continued 
breathing of warm foul air is an active predisposing 
cause. 

(c) Dust. The dusty atmosphere of most schools is too 
well known to need pointing out. Infants by playing 
about on the floor are specially liable to suffer, and the 
bad habit of sucking pens and penholders not only increases 
the risk of direct infection but also conveys a large amount 
of dust into the child's mouth. 

(d) Direct Infection. If a phthisical child or teacher 
or caretaker is in the school the bacilli are probably present 
in the air of the building. School conditions have been 
proved conclusively to be active causes of consumption and 
statistics regarding the mortality of teachers point the 
same way. Teachers occupy an enviable position with 
regard to relative total mortality, but consumption and 
lung diseases are relatively more commonly the cause of 
death than is the case in occupations with a much larger 
total mortality. 



310 CONSUMPTION. 

(e) There is at present no special weeding out of the 
weakly children. Such children have their brains over- 
worked and over- worried, while their bodies are under-fed 
and under-exercised. They grow up therefore with the 
weakness intensified. 

PREVENTION. 

The prevention of consumption involves a much wider 
issue than the mere extermination or circumvention of a 
bacillus. The most hopeful methods are those which aim 
at making the people in general, but the children in parti- 
cular, strong and healthy and thereby eliminating the pre- 
disposition to the disease. 

1. Improved Cleanliness. 

The schools must be kept cleaner and more free from 
dust. Workshops must follow suit, and a great improve- 
ment should be brought about in the general conditions of 
houses and streets, and public buildings, public-houses, 
railway carriages, trams, etc. 

2. Improved Food and Feeding. 

More stringent regulations should be made with regard 
to the purity of the food supply, and more severe punish- 
ment should be meted out to those who tamper with it. 
Public milk supplies are greatly to be desired. 

3. Care of the Children. 

During the infancy of the child the food supply of poor 
mothers who are nursing their children should be supple- 
mented. Such measures, combined with a pure milk 
supply, would give the infants a better start in life, and 
would probably result in a decrease of tuberculosis at all 



CONSUMPTION. 311 

Children at school should receive food of a plain, nourish- 
ing, and substantial character. 

Both for their own sakes and that of others children 
actually suffering from consumption should not be admitted 
into schools. At present many such children are attending 
most schools. No system of regular medical inspection is 
being carried out, and there are little or no available 
means of treating such cases when discovered. The home 
conditions of such children are often worse than the 
school. 

In France there are special sanatoria for children over 
2 years old. When tuberculosis is recognised or a predis- 
position is remarked the child is sent to one of these institu- 
tions. Here it leads a healthy open air life, is well fed, and 
gets plenty of sleep. In the great majority of cases a 
speedy and permanent cure results. 

In Germany, Austria, and Switzerland there are holiday 
colonies for anaemic and predisposed children, where they 
get plenty of good food and breathe pure air. 

In Denmark there is an interesting custom of exchange 
of children between town and country during the summer. 
Every summer 10,000 children from Copenhagen are 
received into the country districts, which in return send 
their children into the town. 

In addition to increased general care of children such as 
is outlined above, there must be a total change in the 
educational system. The care of the young has been too 
long in the hands of the ignorant "educational expert." 
The methods of infant instruction, the tim3-table, the 
number of subjects taught, everything in connection with 
school life in fact must be considered afresh from a health 
point of view, and the most indispensable part of a child's 
education must be considered to be those matters which 
will enable it to lead a healthy and vigorous existence, 



312 CONSUMPTION. 

4. Education. 

The education of the children in such subjects as cleanli- 
ness, the danger of dust and dirt, the danger of spitting, 
the importance of food and feeding, infant feeding, cooking, 
ventilation and the value of fresh air, etc., must have a 
wonderful effect upon the life of the poorer classes as soon 
as such teaching is done properly and occupies its proper 
position of supreme importance in the time-table, especially 
for girls. Such instruction, however, should not be limited 
to girls. Boys should be taught all such subjects 
thoroughly. The average girl may receive such instruction, 
but when she becomes a wife and mother she will order her 
home and bring up her children upon the same lines as her 
mother did. It is to this curious feminine characteristic 
that we may attribute the persistency of ancient supersti- 
tions and injurious practices connected with the subject of 
childhood. If boys receive careful instruction in these 
matters there is greater hope of enlightened ideas prevail- 
ing in the near future. 

Before the children can be properly educated it is 
necessary for the teachers to be suitably trained. It is 
pathetic to listen to the instruction that is being given in 
most of the schools in what is called " the hygiene lesson." 
Teachers must be taught to properly appreciate such 
matters as the necessity for pure air, cleanliness, breathing 
exercises, and fatigue, and must be sufficiently trained in 
observation to notice children suffering from defects and 
diseases, or showing the preliminary signs of infection. 

Properly trained teachers can do a vast amount of good 
and be of enormous help to the medical officer. Teachers 
as a class are more accustomed to dealing with children 
and are more intelligent than the average " trained nurse," 
and in many cases would do the work of simple physical 



CONSUMPTION. 313 

examination of the children far more thoroughly and satis- 
factorily than any one else. 

Sufferers from consumption must be educated to ex- 
pectorate into vessels containing disinfectant, or into rags 
that can be burned ; to hold a handkerchief before the 
mouth when coughing ; to observe great personal and room 
cleanliness ; and to sleep alone. 

5. Notification. 

Compulsory notification of the disease is greatly to be 
desired. Consumption should be added to the list of 
diseases that must be notified to the local medical officer 
of health. When this is done it will be possible to keep 
the house and patient under some observation, to obtain 
better ideas about workshop conditions, and to carry out 
proper disinfection. 

6. Prevention of Infection. 

In order to prevent broadcast infection taking place it is 
desirable that there should be proper provision for the care 
of advanced and hopeless cases of consumption. This is 
the most expensive and the least important of the pre- 
ventive measures that have been reviewed above. 

In conclusion it may be stated that the spread of con- 
sumption would probably be arrested by attention to the 
above matters. In particular the introduction of proper 
medical inspection of scholars, and the provision of institu- 
tions for the reception of children suffering from or pre- 
disposed to consumption would undoubtedly produce 
immediate and most gratifying results. 

It should be distinctly understood that tuberculosis is 
by no means a common school condition, and that obvious 
evidence of consumption is, in the author's experience, a 
rather rare condition to meet among children attending 



314 CONSUMPTION. 

school. The points to repeat and to particularly impress 
upon the public are that a single case of consumption is 
amply sufficient to infect a whole school, and also that pre- 
disposed and weakly children must receive special attention 
if they are to escape the disease in after life. It is not 
easy to diagnose the disease in children : they may appear 
to have phthisical symptoms when they are really suffering 
from adenoids or bronchitis. Clearly the only way to 
stamp out the disease is to send into the country all pre- 
disposed and weakly children, so that they may live an 
open air life, with plenty of sleep and nourishing food. 



CHAPTER VI. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

WOUNDS. 

MINOR wounds, such as a simple abrasion of the skin 
caused by a child falling on gravel, should always be care- 
fully cleaned with cold water and then bandaged. Do not 
bandage too tightly, and remember that the essential 
J condition^ for the successful treatment of wxSunxgTTs I 
j absolute cleanliness. In cases where the wound is at all % / 
' severe it is best to send at once for medical aid. 

In cases of small clean cuts the best treatment is to 
carefully adjust the edges, place over the cut a strip of 
clean linen soaked in clean water (or, better, in a solution 
of carbolic acid, one part of acid to forty of water), and 
bandage carefully. 

The bleeding from small wounds often stops under the 
above treatment, but if it continues after the bandage has 
been applied, or if it is severe from the beginning, it will 
be necessary to adopt special means to check it. 

Bleeding. 

If any kind of blood vessel is injured bleeding will be 
produced, and the process varies according as to whether a 
capillary vessel, a vein, or an artery has been broken. 

Capillary bleeding is the commonest and simplest form 
of haemorrhage. The blood slowly oozes from the raw 

315 



JJ16 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

surface, and appears at many points. This bleeding is 
easily stopped by bathing the part with cold water, or by 
tying firmly over it a pad of lint soaked in cold water. 

Bleeding from a vein is recognised by the fact that the 
blood is dark in colour, and wells up from the wound in 
a dark steady stream. The bleeding can be stopped by 
placing on the wound a pad of lint soaked in cold water, 
and kept in position by a bandage. The tightness of the 




Fig. 99. 

METHOD OF COHPBKSBING AUTERT IN THIGH. 

bandage should be gradually increased until the bleeding 



Arterial bleeding is the most serious form, and is the 
most difficult to stop. The blood is of a bright red colour, 
and is forced out in jets or spurts, if the artery is large, 
or in a continuous forcible stream from the smaller arteries. 
To stop the bleeding it is necessary to apply pressure' over 
the wound itself. Press the thumb over the point in th 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 



317 



wound from which the blood is seen to be spurting. If 
the pressure is sufficient and is maintained, the bleeding 
can be held in check until medical assistance is available. 
In less severe cases the bleeding may be stopped by tying 
a pad of linen firmly over the wound. 

Where the artery is at all large and the bleeding is 
occurring from a limb, the most satisfactory method is to 
apply pressure to the main artery at a place higher up the 
limb than the wound. By thus closing the artery at a 





Fig. 100. 



Fig. 101. 



TOURNIQUET APPLIED TO 
THIGH. 



TOURNIQUET APPLIED TO 
ARM. 



point between the heart and the wound, the bleeding will 
be arrested. This pressure is best exercised at a .point in 
the course of the artery where it passes near to a bone. 
The artery can be easily identified by its pulsation, and it 
should be pressed against the bone by the two thumbs, one 
over the other. The points to be chosen for this pressure 
are easily learned by a few attendances at an ambulance 
class, but are difficult to describe in a few words. 

Remember in cases of bleeding that sufficient pressure 



318 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

brought to bear upon the spot from which the blood is 
running will in the great majority of cases be all that is 
necessary in order that the bleeding should cease. For 
keeping up continuous pressure it may be necessary to 
employ some form of tourniquet. A good tourniquet 
may be made by tying a knot in the middle of a handker- 
chief, placing this on the spot where it is desired to produce 
compression, and tying the handkerchief tightly round the 
limb. Instead of the knot a piece of wood, or a flat stone, 
may be tied on by means of the handkerchief. If this does 
not stop the bleeding pass a stick or a penknife under the 
handkerchief and twist it round until the pressure is 
sufficient. 

Bleeding from the palm of the hand may be stopped by 
pressing a pad upon the wound and tightly binding the 
fingers over it. Similarly, if from the forearm, place a pad 
in the fold of the elbow, bend the forearm on the arm and 
tie it tightly bent. If from the arm, press a pad into the 
armpit and bind the arm to the side. In the same way 
bleeding from the foot may be stopped by direct pressure, 
while bending the leg upon a pad behind the knee will stop 
much of the bleeding below the knee. Bleeding from the 
face and head can usually be checked by pressure against 
the bony surface beneath. 

Nose Bleeding. 

Bleeding from the nose is sometimes difficult to stop. 
The child should sit in a chair, with the head thrown back 
and the arms raised. If this is not sufficient to stop the 
bleeding, the head, face, and neck should be freely douched 
with cold water. Do not let the patient bend down over a 
basin, and frequent blowing and wiping the nose should 
be prevented. Another treatment is to syringe out the 
nose with a strong solution of alum in iced water. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 319 

BITES AND STINGS. 

Bites of animals often cause irregular jagged wounds 
that are long in healing. The immediate treatment of all 
bites is thorough and vigorous sucking of the wound and 
spitting out the saliva and blood. It is best to encourage 
free bleeding for a time. Then the wound should be again 
sucked and cleaned carefully with hot water, and then 
some strong Condy's fluid applied. 

Stings by insects are often the cause of great pain and 
shock. If the sting has been left in the skin it must be 
pulled out. Then quickly rub on the spot some strong 
solution of washing soda, or sal volatile. The continued 
application of these substances is not desirable or 
necessary. 

BRUISES. 

The commonest accident in the playground is bruising. 
The bruise should be treated with cold applications such 
as a handkerchief applied and kept soaked with cold water. 
Bruised eyes if promptly treated in this way may be pre- 
vented from blackening. The alternative is the application 
of very hot water for about fifteen minutes. 



FRACTURES. 

When a bone is broken the greatest possible care should 
be taken to prevent any movement. Sometimes the force 
producing the fracture is so great that one of the broken 
ends of bone gets forced through the flesh and skin to the 
outside, forming an open wound as well as a fracture. 
This is called a compound fracture. When the skin is not 
broken it is called a simple fracture. Simple fractures are 
often converted into compound by mismanagement, and 



320 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

the case is thereby rendered infinitely more serious, 
because the air can now get into the wound and may 
take with it some germs which may do serious injury 
and even cause death. A fracture is diagnosed by 
the loss of power of movement of the part involved, 
by the unnatural position, by local swelling and- pain, 
or by the place of fracture being felt beneath the 
skin. Sometimes it is difficult to be quite sure whether a 
fracture has taken place or not, but the best rule is to 
treat every doubtful case as a fracture until medical help 
arrives. 

When an individual has broken a bone, no movement 
whatever should be allowed until means have been taken 
to ensure immobility of the part. If the fracture is a 
compound one, the wound should be washed, if possible, 
with some clean water, or better, with a disinfecting lotion, 
such as a solution of carbolic acid (one in forty of water). 
Then place a pad of lint or a clean handkerchief over the 
wound, to prevent the entrance of more air. 

In the case of a fractured skull very little can be done 
until the doctor arrives. The patient 
should be placed on a bed or couch with 
the head raised. Cloths soaked in cold 
water should be repeatedly applied to 
the head. 

A broken jaw is recognised by the 
patient being unable to speak, and also 
by feeling a depression at some point in 
Fig. 102. the bone. If possible a bandage should 

METHOD op APPLYING be applied as shown in Fig. 102, after 

BANDAGES TO BEOKKN . . ., 

JAW. gently raising the ]aw to its natural 

position. One handkerchief is fastened 
round the top of the head and below the jaw, and the 
other passes round the chin to the back of the neck. 




ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 



321 



A broken collarbone is a common result of a fall, especi- 
ally among children. An irregularity will be detected by 
passing the fingers along the collarbone. Another sign is 
the inability of the patient to raise the arm above the 
shoulder. Place a pad, such as a rolled up hand kerchief, 
in the armpit and, after placing the arm in a sling, tie it to 
the side by means of a broad bandage passed round the 
arm and chest, outside the slinsr. 

5 

Broken ribs are also of common occurrence. The patient 
complains of a sharp pain on drawing his breath, and a 
grating sensation at each breath may be detected by 
placing the hand over the spot. A broad bandage should 
be fastened tightly round the chest, and this is usually 
found to give great relief. 




Fig. 103. 

SPLINT APPLIED TO BKOKKN TJIIOH. 

Iii the case of a broken arm-bone temporary splints 
should be cut so as to reach from the armpit to the elbow. 
Roughly pad the splints by wrapping them round with 
handkerchiefs ; and place one from the shoulder to the 
outside of the elbow, and the other from the armpit to the 
inside of the elbow. Bandage the splints firmly to the 
arm, and put the forearm in a sling. 

Broken forearms are treated by fastening the arm to an 
angular splint. To make this, bind two pieces of wood at 
right angles to each other. Next, bend the arm to a right 
sen. HYG. 21 



822 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 



angle at the elbow, and fasten it to the splint with hand- 
kerchiefs j then put the arm in a sling. Broken bones of 
the hand or finger are best treated by fastening the whole 
hand flat against a broad splint, and then putting the arm 
in a sling. 

A broken thigh requires very careful treatment. First 
take hold of the foot with both hands, 
and pull steadily until the injured 
limb is the same length as the other. 
Then tie the feet together. Next 
obtain, if possible, a long splint a 
broom-stick or an umbrella will do 
and tie it as shown in Fig. 103. The 
splint should go from the armpit to 
the foot. If no splint can be ob- 
tained, tie the legs firmly together 
at several places. 

A broken leg is treated in a 
similar way. The splint should 
reach well up above the knee, and 
down below the foot. In all injuries 
to the knee, leg, foot, or ankle it is 
a good rule to tie the two legs to- 
gether, so as to prevent any further 
LEG. injury being done by movement. 




Fig. 104. 

SPLINT APPLIED TO BROKEN 



SPRAINS AND DISLOCATIONS. 

When a joint is sprained there is usually a certain 
amount of damage done to the ligaments or membranes 
round the joint. The condition is usually very painful. 
The ankle joint is most often involved. A slight sprain is 
often relieved temporarily by a tight bandage round the 
joint. The treatment usually consists of cold applications, 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 323 

such as cold water dressings, but as a general rule it is 
easier and more satisfactory to bathe the joint with water 
as hot as can be borne. If this is persevered with there is 
usually great relief obtained. 

A joint is dislocated when the bones forming the joint 
have lost their usual relative position. This unnatural 
position causes pain and deformity, and as a rule the joint 
cannot be used. In many cases of finger or thumb joints 
the dislocation can be readily reduced by simply pulling 
the bones into place, but in most cases it is wiser to leave 
the operation to a medical man, lest further damage should 
be done. 

BURNS AND SCALDS. 

These are not common accidents at day schools, but the 
materials necessary for the treatment of them should be at 
hand in each department of every school. First remove 
any clothing covering the injured part. Cut the clothes in 
such a way that they drop off. Do not pull them at all, 
and if any clothing sticks to the skin leave it there, but cut 
off the loose parts all round. Then cover up the burn or 
scald with pieces^ of cotton or linen soaked in a mixture 
of linseed oil and lime water, or olive oil and lime water, 
or either of these oils alone. Another good dressing is a 
solution of carbonate of soda or washing soda in water or 
milk. Now cover the dressing with a thick layer of cotton 
wool or flannel. Keep the patient warm, and give some 
strong tea or coffee if there is any sign of faintness or 
depression. 

Children should be instructed that if their clothing 
should catch fire the best thing for them to do is to lie on 
the floor and roll rapidly over and over. Few children, 
however, would retain sufficient presence of mind under 
such alarming circumstances, and the duty of a bystander 



324 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

is to wrap round the burning child a rug, carpet, blanket, 
or coat, and then, laying it on. the floor, roll it about 
rapidly until the flames are extinguished. 

A common accident with children is the scalding of the 
mouth and throat by drinking out of teapots or kettles. 
In these cases the scalded parts swell up quickly and the 
child may suffocate. A doctor should be summoned at 
once, as an operation may be necessary to save the child's 
life. Meanwhile wrap up the child in a blanket, apply hot 
flannels to the outside of the throat, and give a little oil to 
drink. 

In a school laboratory the skin is often burned by strong 
acids or alkalies, such as sulphuric acid or caustic soda. 
The best treatment is to immediately plunge the part into 
cold clean water, or hold it under the tap. When thorough 
washing has taken place it may be beneficial to wash the 
place with very weak acid (in the case of burning by 
alkalies) or alkali (for burns by acids), but such treatment 
should never be attempted until thorough washing has been 
carried out. 

REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 

Substances, technically known as foreign bodies, may, as 
a result of some accident or mishap, have gained entrance 
to various parts of the body, such as the larynx, the stomach, 
the nose, eyes, ears, skin, etc. 

Throat. 

If a solid, such as a lump of food, a coin, a piece of bone, 
or even an orange pip, is sticking in the throat, or is drawn 
into the pharynx, it may cause most alarming symptoms : 
the face suddenly becomes purple, the eyes protrude, inar- 
ticulate sounds are made, and unconsciousness rapidly 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 325 

comes on. Pass the forefinger into the mouth, reach clown 
the throat as far as possible, and try to hook out the 
obstruction. Even if you cannot reach the obstruction 
your efforts may cause vomiting, which will do good. 
Sometimes a sudden slap 011 the back is effectual. If the 
exciting cause is some small object such as a coin or orange 
pip the old way of holding the child up by the heels, head 
downwards, and giving the back a smart smack is often 
successful. 

Stomach. 

When a child has swallowed some solid object, such as 
a plum-stone, a pin, needle, or nail, the next few meals 
should be given as dry as possible, and plenty of bread 
and vegetables should be eaten. Do not give aperient 
medicines. 

Eye. 

Small objects in the eye give rise to a great deal of pain 
and irritation, and should be attended to at once. The 
pain can usually be located and that part of the eye ex- 
amined by partly everting the upper or lower lid by holding 
the eyelashes with the thumb and finger. When the object 
is seen it can be easily removed by means of the moistened 
corner of a handkerchief. If the object is seen to be 
sticking in the cornea do not attempt to remove it, but 
wait for the doctor. 

Nose. 

Occasionally children push up the nose small objects, 
such as l>eads, and fail to recover them. By making the 
child sneeze the object is often dislodged, but if this is not 
successful it will be best to await the arrival of the 
doctor. 



326 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

Ear. 

If some small object has become lodged in the ear it is 
best to refrain from taking any steps to remove it. Such 
matters are best left to a doctor. As a general rule the 
teacher will find it best, as a matter of common caution, to 
refrain from applying active remedies except in the simplest 
possible cases. The parent of an injured child is often 
inclined to blame some innocent and well-meaning indi- 
vidual who has attempted to help. 

Skin. 

Foreign bodies such as thorns, splints, or needles are 
commonly lodged in the skin. If their removal is obvious 
and simple there is no reason why it should not be attempted, . 
but it is important to remember here also that unsuccessful 
attempts of this kind are apt to render the ultimate removal 
of the object a much more serious matter. 

VOMITING. 

A child may vomit owing to the most trivial cause, but 
on the other hand it may be the first indication of a most 
dangerous condition. It is commonly the first noticeable 
happening in the preliminary stage of scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, and other infectious conditions, as well as such 
severe illnesses as pneumonia and brain fever, or such 
dangerous conditions as obstruction of the bowels or 
rupture. On account of the possibility of it being an 
indication of some serious condition vomiting should not 
be regarded lightly. To relieve the feeling of nausea an 
excellent remedy is good effervescing soda-water. 

FAINTING. 

In overcrowded and ill ventilated school-rooms fainting 
is by no means uncommon. It is usually caused by 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 327 

temporary feebleness of the heart's action, and is accom- 
panied by paleness of face and some perspiration. Give 
the child fresh air and put the head as low as possible, 
either by laying full length on the floor or by bending the 
head and body forwards until the head is below the knees. 
Apply smelling salts to the nostrils, or sprinkle the face 
with cold water. When recovering it is beneficial to give 
some cold water to sip, but do not try to make the chile \ 
drink during unconsciousness. Children should be taught I 
that a most effectual remedy when feeling faint is to stoop / 
down as if tying one's shoe-laces. This is usually quite I 
sufficient to cause the feeling of faintness to pass away. 



EPILEPSY. 

An epileptic fit is a common cause of insensibility. In 
the severer type of disease the sufferer first screams, and 
falls down unconscious and rigid. Then the hands are 
clenched, the legs and arms are jerked to and fro, the face 
becomes purple, and foam often comes from the mouth. A 
common accident at this stage is the biting of the tongue 
if it happens to get between the teeth. The convulsive 
movements then gradually subside and finally cease, and 
the patient usually falls into a deep sleep. During the fit 
the eyes are usually turned sideways and they are quite 
insensitive to light and touch. 

When a fit of this kind occurs the only thing to be done 
is to prevent the patient injuring himself. Loosen all the 
clothes about the neck, put something soft under the head, 
and if possible put a piece of wood or cork between the 
teeth to prevent the tongue being bitten. Do not try to 
restrain all movements, or give stimulants, or throw cold 
water on the face. Allow the patient to go to sleep as soon 
as possible. 



328 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

Such fits usually recur at longer or shorter intervals, 
either regularly or irregularly. Children suffering fre- 
quently from severe fits should not be allowed to attend 
ordinary schools. 

Much milder forms of epileptic attacks are common. 
Some are quite free from convulsive movements and are 
represented merely by loss of consciousness for a few 
seconds. The face becomes pallid, and there is usually 
perspiration during the attack. When consciousness re- 
turns the child may be liable to sudden eccentric behaviour 
or even acts of violence. 

HYSTERIA. 

As a rule attacks of hysteria are attended with laughing 
or crying, but occasionally there may be all the signs of an 
epileptic fit. There is, however, no real insensibility, and 
the condition may be distinguished by the patient resisting 
an attempt to raise the upper eyelid ; also, when the eyelid 
is raised, the pupil will not be visible. The best treatment 
is either to leave the patient entirely alone or to dash a 
glass of cold water over the face. 

POISONING. 

In an ordinary school the possibility of poisoning is not 
very great, but if such an emergency should arise it is 
important to bear in mind the following rules : 

1. If the patient appears sleepy, keep him awake. 

2. If there are stains about the mouth, with signs of 

blistering and destruction of the mucous membrane, 
do not give an emetic, but give raw .eggs, milk, and 
then oils (linseed oil. olive oil, salad oil). After- 
wards strong tea or coffee, 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 329 

3. When there are no stains about the mouth give an 
emetic (large quantities of warm salt and water, or 
mustard and water, followed by tickling of the back 
of the throat by pushing the forefinger down as far 
as possible). Then give raw eggs, milk, and oils. 
Afterwards strong tea or coffee may be given. Do 
not give oils if there is a possibility of the poison 
being phosphorus. 



DROWNING AND SUFFOCATION. 

These are not common accidents of school life, but are 
possible ones. Instruction in the proper course to take in 
such emergencies should form a part of the teaching in all 
schools. 

Although there may appear to be no sign of life in the 
body, it is the duty of those who are first on the spot to 
make every possible effort to restore animation. 

Send for medical assistance, and in drowning cases try 
to get some hot blankets if any house is near, but do not 
leave the spot yourself. At once proceed to loosen all 
clothing about the neck and chest, and clear out the mouth 
if there is any froth or dirt. Draw forwards the tongue, 
and fasten it out by means of an elastic band, or ribbon, or 
strip of linen, which must be passed over the tongue and 
tied under the chin. 

Then turn the body over on one side, resting the head 
on the forearm. Then turn it on the back, and rub the 
chest vigorously, exciting the nostrils, when possible, with 
snuff or smelling salts. 

If 110 attempt at breathing is made by the individual 
himself, lose no more time, but apply artificial respiration 
at once. 



330 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION (Silvester's method). 

(1) Put the patient on his back, with a pillow beneath 
the shoulders. Pull out the tongue, as directed in (2) 
above, and keep the mouth open all the while. 




Fig. 105. 

ARTIFICIAL RKSPIUATIOX. 
(n) Method of producing Inspiration. (6) Method of producing Expiration. 



(2) To produce artificial inspiration, kneel at the patient's 
head, and grasp the arms just below the elbows. Then 
pull the arms slowly and steadily above the head. This 
raises the ribs and expands the chest, causing air to enter 
the lungs. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 331 

(3) In two or three seconds, produce artificial expiration, 
by bending the arms back again, and pressing them very 
forcibly against the chest. This forces the air out of the 
lungs. This double movement should be repeated about 
fifteen times a minute, and should be kept up for at least 
an hour, even when there is no apparent return to life. 

(4) Directly any signs of breathing are shown by the 
patient, the movements may be stopped, and the limbs 
rubbed vigorously upwards towards the trunk, in order to 
promote the circulation of the blood. Hot bottles and hot 
blankets should be applied to the pit of the stomach, the 
legs, and the feet. Stimulants should be given such as 
brandy, or better hot coffee. If assistants are at hand, 
these efforts to promote circulation should be carried on 
simultaneously with the movements of artificial respiration. 



CHAPTEE VII. 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

THE epidemic diseases affecting schools include diphtheria, 
scarlet fever, measles, German measles, whooping cough, 
mumps, chicken pox, and small-pox, all of which have 
certain characteristics in common, viz. 

(1) They are all communicable from one person to 
another. 

(2) Each disease has a definite duration. 

(3) When infection has taken place no symptoms are 

produced at first. The interval of time, between 
the actual infection and the appearance of the first 
sign or symptom of the disease is called the period 
of incubation. When the incubation period has 
elapsed the typical symptoms of the disease appear, 
and last for a certain time, during which death may 
occur. If the active period of the disease is survived 
recovery usually takes place. 

(4) A remarkable characteristic is that an attack of one 

of these diseases is rarely followed by a subsequent 
attack of the same disease in the same individual. 
In other words, an attack confers immunity from 
that disease. The chief exception to the above rule 
is diphtheria. 

332 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 333 

(5) Iii many cases the disease lias been conclusively 
shown to be caused by some special form of bacterial 
life, and the same explanation is inferred in the 
case of the others on account of their common 
characteristics. From the obvious analogy that 
exists between the ordinary process of fermentation 
(i.e. a stage of quiescence or incubation followed by 
a period of activity and then by exhaustion of the 
process) and the course of these diseases the term 
zymotic has been applied to them. 



SPREAD OF INFECTION. 

1. By Air. 

The germs of whooping cough, scarlet fever, measles, 
small-pox, chicken pox, mumps, diphtheria, influenza, and 
tubercle seem to be capable of being carried by the air. 
In most of them, however, the possible distance is only a 
small one, and it is likely that only in the case of tubercle, 
small-pox, and influenza can the infection be carried any 
considerable distance. 

2. By Water and Food. 

Typhoid fever and cholera are notoriously water-borne 
diseases. Infected milk may spread tubercle, scarlet fever, 
diphtheria, or measles. 

3. By Clothes. 

Scarlet fever and small-pox germs have a special pro- 
clivity of lying dormant for long periods in clothes and 
furniture of the sick room. Infected books and toys 
similarly help in the spread. 



334 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

4. By Living Creatures. 

Flies are probably active carriers of diphtheria and 
typhoid fever, and in towns probably play a conspicuous 
part in the spread of these diseases. Fleas may similarly 
carry infection, Cats undoubtedly suffer from and spread 
diphtheria. 

PREVENTION OF INFECTION. 

The spread of infectious diseases is prevented by care- 
fully and thoroughly carrying out instructions and by the 
adoption of different precautions such as are grouped 
together as follows : 

1. Isolation. 

The sick should be at once separated from the healthy. 

2. Quarantine. 

Those who have been exposed to infection should be 
isolated separately and kept under observation until the 
period of incubation of the disease in question has expired. 

3. Disinfection. 

The disease germs that may be present in the room, on 
walls, floors, desks, etc., or on pencils, books, or clothes, 
must be destroyed. 

4. Immunity. 

In the case of small-pox the disease can be checked in 
its spread and could eventually be stamped out by efficient 
vaccination, which confers immunity from the disease. 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 335 

5. Notification. 

When a case of infectious disease occurs it must be 
notified at once to the local medical officer of health. 

6. Exclusion. 

All children from an infected house must be excluded 
from school until the medical officer certifies that they can 
resume attendance. 

SMALL-POX. 

Owing to the effect of vaccination this disease is un- 
common in schools. During epidemics, however, outbreaks 
may occur, and when this happens it usually serves as a 
most striking object-lesson upon the effects of vaccination. 
The circumstances of the outbreak of small-pox among 
school children at Ossett, near Wakefield, illustrate this. 
The following figures are taken from the report of 
Dr. Kaye, the County Medical Officer for the West Hiding 
of Yorkshire. In the mixed department of this school 
were 169 scholars. On October 27, 1904, a child in one of 
the classes was found to be suffering from small-pox and 
was promptly removed to the hospital. . In this class there 
were 27 scholars, 19 of whom had been vaccinated and 8 
were unvaccinated. Every one of these 8 unvacciiiated 
children took the disease, while the 19 vaccinated children 
all escaped. Similarly in two other classes every un- 
vaccinated child contracted small-pox. Altogether there 
were 42 cases of small-pox among the scholars and only 
five of these had been vaccinated, and these five were in 
one class of older scholars in whom the effects of vaccination 
during infancy were wearing off. Throughout the whole 
school not a single re- vaccinated person took the disease. 

There is abundant scientific and statistical evidence to 
prove that efficient vaccination, as shown by the production 



336 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

of four good scars, during infancy confers absolute immunity 
for at least ten years. Also if revaccination is properly 
performed at the age of twelve to fourteen years it will 
undoubtedly confer immunity for the remainder of life. 
In countries where revaccination is compulsory the disease 
is practically unknown. ? ,H j 

The incubation period of small-pox is twelve days, during 
which period there are practically no symptoms. Then 
pain in the back, headache, vomiting, fever, and shivering 
show the commencement of the attack. In mild cases, 
such as occur in inefficiently vaccinated children, the 
eruption is the first sign. This begins on the third day of 
the illness. It is first noticed on the forehead, neck, face, 
and wrists. Afterwards it spreads over the trunk and 
limbs. 

The rash appears first as red spots, slightly raised, and 
afterwards becoming more prominent. They are hard and 
" shotty." On the third day of their appearance the centre 
of each becomes clear and' transparent, and they now look 
like blisters full of clear fluid. In two more days the 
middle becomes depressed and the clear appearance changes 
to dull yellow. After the eighth day the spots begin to 
dry and form scabs. A case should be regarded as infec- 
tious until all the scabs have quite disappeared. 

During an epidemic of small-pox a teacher should send 
home any child with suspicious spots on the face or wrists, 
and report the case to the medical officer. No child from 
an infected house can be allowed to attend school. 



CHICKEN POX. 

This is very common among children, and spreads rapidly 
through schools in epidemics. It has a variable incubation 
period of from twelve to nineteen days, during which time 






EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 337 

there are no symptoms. The rash appears first as red spots 
on the chest, afterwards on the face and scalp, and then on 
the limbs. Fresh crops of the spots appear at intervals, 
and as each goes through the same development it follows 
that all stages of the process are noticeable 011 the same 
individual at the same time. In a few hours the red spots 
change into blisters, then they turn yellow, and in two or 
three days they burst, dry up, and form scabs. A child is 
free from infection when all traces of the scabs have dis- 
appeared. All children from infected houses must be 
excluded from school. 

Any child showing a suspicious eruption should be sent 
home and reported to the medical officer. 

SCARLET FEVER OR SCARLATINA. 

The incubation period of scarlet fever is variable, being 
usually three or four days, and the disease is highly infec- 
tious from its commencement. In the earlier stages infection 
is spread mainly by the breath and the secretions of the nose, 
mouth, and throat, and later on a possible cause may be 
the scales of desquamated skin, that are particularly liable 
to adhere to clothing and to lie latent for an indefinite 
period. After the disease is apparently over a child may 
be sent to school with discharging ears or nose, or in very 
mild cases the disease may have been undetected and the 
child continue its attendance at school until this discharge 
commences. Such discharges are intensely infectious and 
will rapidly spread the disease. No child with discharging 
ears or nose should be allowed in school during a scarlet 
fever epidemic until the medical officer has made an 
examination. 

A common event is the discharge of a child from the 
hospital apparently well, and with no discharge of ears or 
sen. IIYG. 22 



338 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

nose. Such a child is then sent to school, and is sent out 
to play in the playground with the others during recess. 
Although the weather may be very cold the child usually 
goes out of the warm schoolroom into the cold air without 
any additional clothing, and with no hat. A cold is con- 
tracted, and a discharge from the nose or ears is set up. 
This proves to be infectious and an epidemic is caused. 
With greater care exercised to prevent such children from 
taking cold there is reason to believe that they would not 
prove to be infectious to others, but if they contract a cold 
the infectivity appears to burst out afresh. 

The usual premonitory signs of an approaching attack 
of scarlet fever are pallor, shivering, vomiting, headache, 
and sore throat. If scarlet fever is at all prevalent in the 
district any child showing two of the above signs should 
be sent home and reported. 

The attack itself nearly always begins with shivering 
and vomiting, with more or less severe sore throat. The 
face then becomes flushed, and the rash appears on the 
side of the neck and on the chest. Afterwards the rash 
spreads to the abdomen and the limbs, but, curiously 
enough, does not appear on the face, the palms of the 
hands, or the soles of the feet. The rash appears as small 
deep red dots on a red skin. It disappears about the 
seventh day. 

The sore throat is often a prominent symptom, and the 
glands about the jaw are swollen and painful, causing 
difficulty in mastication and swallowing. The tongue 
becomes brightly red, with swollen papillae, giving it the 
appearance of a strawberry. 

Desquamation or peeling begins in severe cases on the 
third or fourth day ; in milder cases from the sixth to the 
ninth day ; occasionally it is postponed until much later. 
The peeling usually commences where the rash first 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 339 

appeared, i.e. on the sides of the neck and the chest. Then 
the trunk and the arms begin a few days after, then the 
palms of the hands, and finally the soles and the heels. From 
a school point of view a constant routine examination of the 
children's hands and fingers during an epidemic is most 
useful. Quite recently in the author's district an epidemic 
of scarlet fever was associated with a large public ele- 
mentary school, and systematic examination of all the 
children in attendance was carried out. Three children 
were discovered in the peeling stage, and several others 
were sent home as suspicious cases. These afterwards 
developed the disease. By these means, combined with 
thorough disinfection of the rooms, etc., and the visitation 
of all suspicious cases of absence, the epidemic was sud- 
denly and completely arrested. An examination of the 
registers showed that the children who were found to be 
peeling had stayed away from school, for one day only, 
about two weeks previously. This serves to illustrate the 
fact that mild cases escape ordinary observation and do not 
appear to be ill, but they continue the spread of the 
disease. In fact it is always more difficult to stamp out 
epidemics of a very mild character simply because some of 
the cases are not ill enough to be kept at home. 

An ordinary case of scarlet fever is free from infection 
in about six weeks, but 110 child should be allowed to 
resume attendance while it shows any discharge of ears or 
nose. Of course all children from infected houses must be 
excluded from school. 

MEASLES. 

This disease causes a very high death rate among chil- 
dren, but it is not necessarily so fatal as it appears, most 
of the deaths being due to bronchitis or pneumonia, which 
so often complicate or follow an attack of measles and are 



340 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

frequently caused by neglect and exposure to cold. The 
incubation period is usually about twelve days. 

The increase in the prevalence of measles during recent 
years is attributable to the crowding together of children 
in schools, the relative increase in town populations, and 
the impossibility of definitely recognising the disease 
before it becomes infective. 

During an epidemic of measles the following precautions 
should be taken : 

1. Susceptible children from infected houses should be 

excluded from school altogether until the most 
recent case is certified as being free from infection. 

2. Scholars who appear to be suffering from the slightest 

cold should be sent home. 

3. All absentees should be visited by the attendance 

officers, and all suspicious cases visited by the 
medical officer. This is a most necessary and 
important step in order to properly enforce 
rule (1). 

4. In severe epidemics it may be desirable to close 

infants' schools if the adoption of the above measures 
does not stop the spread. It is unnecessary to close 
the other departments. 

5. During the closure the infants' school should be 

thoroughly disinfected. It is often advisable to 
disinfect the other department:: on Saturdays, when 
they are not in use. 

If an outbreak of measles occur in a boarding school the 
cases should be at once isolated, and all scholars who have 
been in the same dormitory during the previous week or 
sat next to them in class-rooms during that time should be 
placed in quarantine. All scholars who show any signs 
whatever of an ordinary cold should be separately 
isolated. 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 341 

For four or five days before the typical rash appears 
the child begins to show evidence of being out of sorts. 
The commencement is usually shivering, hot dry skin, 
and headache. Then signs of a cold appear. The child 
sneezes, the eyes get red and watery, the nose runs, and the 
voice gets hoarse. A child showing any of these signs 
during an epidemic of measles should be at once sent 
home. In an infants' school it is advisable to send such 
a child home at once whether measles is prevalent or 
not. If teachers could only be persuaded to adopt this 
course, it is probable that most epidemics of measles 
would be avoided. 

After about four days of these symptoms the typical 
rash appears, and it is only at this stage that the 
diagnosis of measles can be definitely made. But by 
this time the child, if it has continued to attend school, 
will have infected dozens of other children. The rash 
appears first on the face, which becomes flushed at first 
and then develops the characteristic appearance of raised, 
blotchy, dark red patches. This afterwards spreads to 
the rest of the body. 

A child is infectious from the time of the first 
symptom until the end of the illness, usually a period of 
about four weeks. 

GERMAN MEASLES. 

This is a mild infectious disorder which has symptoms 
bearing some resemblance to both measles and scarlet 
fever. It is quite a distinct disease, having an incubation 
period of about sixteen days. 

The preliminary symptoms are usually very mild. There 
may be headache, vomiting, and signs of a cold. The 
eruption appears first on the face, as in measles, and con- 
sists of slightly raised patches of a rose-red color. It then 



342 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

spreads to the body, where the rash is often like that of 
scarlet fever, but is more patchy. The glands at the back 
of the neck, in the armpit, and in the groin are enlarged, 
tender, and hard like peas. The disease itself is very mild, 
but it may be the forerunner of tuberculous infection of 
the glands. 

WHOOPING COUGH. 

People at any age may be attacked by this disease, 
though it is commoner and more fatal among infants than 
among older children and adults. Its incubation period is 
about eight days. It is highly infectious before the cough 
appears, and the infectiousness may continue for months. 
Although regarded by the average parent as a trivial 
complaint, yet it is actually the most fatal of all the 
infectious complaints of children under five years old. It 
causes twice as many deaths as scarlet fever. 

The preliminary symptoms are those of a cold, viz. 
sneezing, running nose, watering eyes, and slight cough. 
These may persist for one or two weeks, during which time 
the infection is being spread broadcast if the child attends 
school. This is yet another reason why all children 
showing signs of a cold should in every instance and under 
all circumstances be excluded from school. By making 
this a routine practice it is impossible to exaggerate the 
important effects that would be achieved. Epidemics 
would be prevented in many instances, and a great number 
of fatalities avoided. The rule should be most rigidly 
observed in infants' schools. 

The actual attack of typical whooping cough is unmis- 
takable and painfully noticeable. A child who has had 
several attacks of the typical fits of coughing knows when 
one is coming on, and often appears frightened and begins 
to cry. A rapid series o short coughs are given until the 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 343 

chest is emptied of air, during which time the face 
becomes congested and livid. Then the breath is drawn 
in with a long crowing whoop. The fit of coughing may 
be followed by vomiting. Afterwards the child becomes 
bright and cheerful again. Infected children should be 
excluded for at least two months, or for a longer period if 
the paroxysms of cough, followed by vomiting, have not 
disappeared. 

A distressing characteristic of whooping cough is the 
tendency that it seems to confer upon the lungs to acquire 
disease. It appears to weaken the resisting power of the 
lung tissue, and to predispose to attacks of pneumonia and 
to consumption. 

MUMPS. 

Epidemics of this disease are frequent in cold wet 
weather in spring and autumn. The incubation period is 
over a fortnight. Both children and young adults may be 
attacked and boys are more liable to be infected than girls. 
The outbreak is often associated with an epidemic of 
measles. 

The first signs are pain, stiffness, and tenderness at the 
angle of the jaw, below the ear. This is followed by swell- 
ing. One side is affected first, usually the left, and the 
other side may or may not follow suit. The pain, stiffness, 
and tenderness may spread down the side of the neck and 
there may be great difficulty in opening the mouth. When 
both sides are affected with considerable swelling the 
appearance is very grotesque. 

The condition is intensely infectious and it must be 
'remembered that serious complications and sequelae are not 
uncommon. Cases should not be regarded as free from 
infection until the end of four weeks from the commence- 
ment of the disease. 



344 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

Swellings at the angle of the jaw, closely resembling 
those caused by mumps, are occasionally seen in bad cases 
of scarlet fever and diphtheria. 



DIPHTHERIA. 

During the last twenty or thirty years there has been apro- 
gressive increase in the rate of mortality from diphtheria in 
England and Wales, and the increase is mainly in densely 
populated districts. The disease used to be regarded as 
one peculiar to country districts, but its character has now 
changed and it is practically always present in large towns. 
This is probably due to the fact that the diphtheria bacillus 
is extremely common in towns, and is present in many 
healthy throats without causing any disease. When, how- 
ever, the bacilli gain access to an unhealthy throat they 
are able to set up the disease known as diphtheria. 

After the attack is over and the throat is apparently 
healthy the bacilli may still persist in the throat and the 
child may be still able to give others the disease. Also 
healthy children may have the bacilli in the throat and 
may hand them on to other children without themselves 
suffering from the disease. Such cases are known as 
"carriers" and play an important part in the spread of 
the disease. 

A consideration of the above facts shows plainly that in 
order to prevent the occurrence and spread of diphtheria 
we must devote ourselves to two objects, the exclusion of 
all children who have in their throats the bacilli of diph- 
theria and the removal of all conditions that are liable 
to produce a morbid condition of the throat, such as bad 
ventilation, over-heating, access of sewer gas or ground air 
into schools, bad drainage, and insanitary conveniences. 
It is most important to remember that the bacillus probably 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 345 

has no effect upon a healthy throat and that some predis- 
posing cause must be at work before the disease diphtheria 
can be set up. In every school epidemic of diphtheria 
investigated by the author it has been possible to find some 
undesirable condition such as those enumerated above, and 
when these have been eliminated and those children possess- 
ing diphtheria bacilli in the throat have been excluded the 
disease has always disappeared. There is never any reason 
for school closure for diphtheria unless some structural 
alterations are urgently necessary. 

By means of a bacteriological examination of the material 
from the throats of the children it is possible to know 
exactly which of the children are capable of giving the 
disease to others, and these children can be excluded until 
they are found to be quite free from the bacilli. If the 
school is closed for alterations or for holiday while cases 
of diphtheria are associated with it a good plan is for the 
medical officer to make this examination the first time that 
the scholars re-assemble. 

If bacteriological examination cannot be obtained the 
best plan is to send home all children suffering from sore 
throat, but this plan cannot be relied upon to stamp out 
the disease, because many children who are acting as 
carriers may have no throat trouble at all. 

The incubation period of diphtheria averages between 
two and five days. The greatest number of cases and the 
maximum mortality occur between the ages of three and 
twelve years. The first symptom is a sore throat. The 
glands round the jaw and throat often become inflamed, 
enlarged, and tender. Upon examination of the throat one 
or more patches of a greyish white membrane may be seen 
over the tonsils, the palate, or the back of the pharynx. 

The disease may attack the trachea (causing " croup ") 
or the membrane lining the nose, and it is by no means 



346 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

uncommon to trace mysterious recurrences of the disease 
in a school to an unrecognised and long standing case of 
nasal diphtheria. Wherever the germs may have taken 
hold they may persist there for long periods, and in many 
cases they can be still found after the lapse of twelve months. 
Usually, however, before the expiration of so long a time 
they have lost their virulence and are no longer able to 
set up the disease diphtheria. 

The infection spreads rapidly through a school by the 
breatli of those suffering from the disease (as well as the 
"carriers") and by infected pens, pencils, books, papers, 
modelling clay, towels, drinking cups, etc. 

The use of diphtheria antitoxin in rendering the children 
temporarily immune to the disease has not been adopted in 
this country to any considerable extent, but it is a method 
full of promise for the future. 

All cases of diphtheria and all children from infected 
houses should be excluded from school until a bacterio- 
logical examination proves them to be free from the diph- 
theria bacillus. 

The following table gives a summary of some of the 
facts concerning the above diseases : 



z 



W 



1.9 










11 














g 1 ^ 


CO 


Q 


1 


i 


-ti 


<6 


n 


to 




T 




rg 


1 


| 

C 


f 


^ 


_?l 


1 


g> 


rt 1 




~ : 




1* 


<M 


2 I 81 * S S 2 




i co <u -w ?? OJ $ A eS "> 


A O 




C 




a 
















t: % 




o 








1 . 


'H & ti-^ 


1 


'2? 




||g 


I* 




9| 




3 


i 


^^ 




& 


frt C . 




*'&!& 


^^ 


; 


11 




s r 


3 


J -I 


i g S 


;= 






12 w- 1 


| 1 I 






c3 w 

*a 


"I 


2*1111 


| 


If E 


1 


fill 


I *^ 


A 


|l 


|3 


F 


|sl|i f 2 ji 1 |||| |l| i 


ll 




S5 7 

P3 
c 


1 


CM 


g.2H J3 


i 


*** 


| 


g.S^^ 


^g.sa 


o 
fe 


go go 




a of ^ 


a -^ . a ^ A a or s i ?= ^c ^ ^ 






o 


S 5 '3 










a 








MR 


*H "^ 





8^ 


t**/" 


<M 


<W 


f 


tf 




c3 




.2 


W tw 


!f. 


^r-r^. 




) 


S 


^ 'ti 










11 


|L"^ 
I||| 


1 


"IS, 
a^^ 

V 


52l 


Hi 


|}| 




ll 




ll 

f-i " 


I 

\ 




g-^ =* 


c 




I 4 "' 3 


O " 


H "' 


n ^ 


K* 




M J 




frii-si 


1 

o 


5 
m 

'o 




"8 

CO 

-2 


! 

o 


^a 
o 


! 

o 


g 

1 




CO 




fi|fl|i- 


s 


73 




1 


% 


% 


Je; 


rt 








fl . o o 

.2 x -^ ^ qj "~- 

tJ P SiS jo 









^ 


CO 


-& 


S 


* 








Ja^-sS 


1 


7 




7 


J 


7 


I 


7 




(M 




3 o S.+3.2 Q 








o 




t^. 


ii. 


o 








5 y o ^5 Q (3, 
























i i tS 
























SIGNS OK SYMPTOMS. 


Headache, shivering, vomiting, sore throat and 
hot dry skin ; 2nd day, bright red rash ; skin 
peeling follows, and later on discharges often 
occur from the nose and ears. Face very pale 
in later stages. 


Begins like a cold in the head ; with feverish- 
ness, shivering, running from the nose and 
eyes, and sneezing ; blotchy rash about 4th 
day on the face, which looks swollen and heavy. 


Like both Measles and Scarlet Fever, but gene- 
rally mild. Sneezing, blotchy rash, enlarged 
glands. 


Sore throat, with lassitude and weakness as a 
rule ; white points or patches on the back and 
sides of the throat ; stiffness of neck ; pallor. 
Sometimes merely like a mild sore throat. 


Begins like a common cold, followed in a few 
days by fits of coughing, which gradually 
develop the charactersitic long-drawn whoop, 
and are often followed by vomiting. 

Pain and stiffness in jaws, feverishness and 
limb pains; swelling in front of ears and 
under the jaws. May be on one side only. 


Scarcely any preliminary illness'; small red 
spots changing in about 24 hours to blisters 
(vesicles) containing clear fluid : these burst 


and form scabs. Spots at different stages of 
development. 


More severe than last; headache, backache, 
vomiting, with ra*h similar to last ; vesicles 
become pustules, then scabs on forehead, face, 
and hands. 


DISEASE. 


SCARLET 
FEVER 


MEASLES 




GERMAN 
MEASLES 


DIPHTHERIA..! 

' 


WHOOPING 
COUGH ! 


MUMPS 


CHICKEN POX 




SMALL-POX . . j 





347 



CHAPTER VIII. 

SCHOOL CLOSUKE AND DISINFECTION, 
CLOSURE. 

THIS is an exceedingly difficult problem at present 
because the public have a firmly fixed idea that the only 
way to combat a school epidemic is to close the schools. 
As a matter of fact the process is extremely clumsy, 
unscientific, and unsatisfactory, and the only purpose it 
serves is to mask the true state of affairs, and to confer 
upon the locality that state of bliss which is said to be 
the invariable accompaniment of ignorance. In towns 
especially it probably has no effect whatever in preventing 
the spread of the disease. 

Article 101, which ceased to operate in March 1903, 
protected the school authorities against the pecuniary loss 
that they might suffer by the exclusion of infected children 
and also children from infected houses. The reason for its 
withdrawal is not obvious. The result is that only by 
obtaining an order for the schools to be closed can the 
education authority prevent its grant being seriously 
reduced. As a consequence the local medical officer of 
health is besieged by requests to close the school directly a 
few cases of infectious disease have occurred, and in many 
cases he thinks it wise to give way to the clamour. The 

348 



SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 349 

Board of Education have therefore taken the ill advised 
step of helping to perpetuate an antiquated and unscientific 
system. In country schools alone does the mere fact of 
closure influence the spread of an epidemic. 

Occasionally it is necessary to close a school for the 
purpose of making alterations and remedying such defects 
as have been revealed by the systematic inspection and 
examination of the premises, or for the purpose of cleansing 
and disinfecting. If a school is closed for any reason it 
should be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected. 

During epidemics of diphtheria the best procedure has 
already been discussed. Every infected child and every 
"carrier" of the disease can be detected by means of 
bacteriological examination. By the exclusion of all such 
cases, combined with the proper disinfection of the 
premises, and other steps that are discussed under the 
subject of disinfection, the spread of the disease can be 
arrested. 

In the case of measles if the teachers received definite 
instructions to always send home all infants showing 
signs of a cold there would be fewer epidemics. When 
an epidemic does occur the carrying out of vigorous meas- 
ures, and systematic medical inspection combined with the 
exclusion of all children from infected houses, is often 
successful in stamping it out. If these measures prove to 
be unsuccessful it is only necessary to close the infants' 
department. With regard to the other departments it 
may be advisable to exclude those children who have never 
had measles, but information of this kind is difficult to get 
exactly, and such a step should rarely be necessary. 

Epidemics of scarlet fever can usually be arrested by 
taking such steps as have already been outlined. 

It should be particularly borne in mind that school 
closure is often reduced to a farce by the continuance of 



350 SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 

the Sunday school and week-day meetings in the building 
in question. No school should be closed under any 
circumstances unless its complete closure for the period 
named can be arranged. 

DISINFECTION. 

By the term disinfection is meant the total destruction 
of all bacterial life. Substances or processes that are 
capable of effecting this are called disinfectants. It is 
probable that upon no subject in connection with disease is 
there denser ignorance than upon that of disinfection. It 
is still common, for instance, to hear in popular lectures, 
and to read in the lay press, the ancient advice about 
having saucers, filled with substances of more or less value 
as disinfectants, placed about a sick room. It is difficult 
to imagine what useful purpose such a process could 
possibly fulfil unless these well-meaning people consider 
that the microbes or germs of disease are willing and 
anxious to take the necessary suicidal plunge. Surely it 
should be unnecessary to state that no room can be 
disinfected while human beings are in it. It is much 
easier to kill human beings than to exterminate the 
microbes scattered about a room. So long as the room is 
inhabited it is only possible to keep things as clean as 
possible and to flush the room with fresh air. 

Another common error is to use the term disinfectant to 
broadly denote deodorants and antiseptics as well as true 
disinfectants and germicides. A deodorant such as eau 
de Cologne, camphor, tobacco smoke, eucalyptus, etc., 
merely masks a bad smell and has no action upon germs. 
The term antiseptic should be applied to those substances 
which prevent the development and multiplication of 
germs without destroying them, e.g. Condy's fluid, iodo- 
forui, common salt, boracic acid. 



SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 351 

Disinfectants may be classified into liquids and gases. 
Among the liquids are carbolic acid, solution of corrosive 
sublimate, formalin, and many patent substances. Any of 
these may be used for disinfecting pencils, desks, slates, 
or the walls and floor of rooms. Gaseous disinfectants 
include chlorine, formaldehyd, sulphur dioxide, hot air, 
and steam. If a gaseous disinfectant is desired for school 
disinfection, the best is probably formaldehyd. 

Room Disinfection. 

The choice of a disinfectant for school purposes is diffi- 
cult, and the selection of the most suitable method of disin- 
fection is still more so. It is customary to point out that 
bacteriological experiments have shown sulphur dioxide gas 
to be practically useless as an actual disinfectant, but it 
must not be forgotten that not nly does the clinging 
odour of such gaseous disinfectants compel thorough 
flushing of the premises with fresh air afterwards, but 
also impresses upon the public mind the fact that such 
processes are being carried out. The use of formaldehyd 
has much more justification, and has been found by the 
author to be an extremely active germicide when diffused 
with steam into the air by means of some such apparatus 
as Lingner's. For good results, however, it is necessary 
to use large quantities of formalin. Formaldehyd also 
has the advantage of a penetrating and clinging odour, 
necessitating flushing with air and scrubbing after its use. 

The use of disinfectant sprays is probably the method of 
the future. The liquid used can be .applied in a known 
dilution, and is accordingly more trustworthy than gases 
or vapours. For dirty surfaces the spray Avill usually have 
a higher capacity to penetrate the dirt than will any gas. 

Schoolrooms should be regarded as places that are bound 
to become infected from time to time, and so it should 



352 SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 

become the universal practice to disinfect the surfaces of 
schoolrooms regularly as a routine process. This has been 
done for some time in America. A considerable decrease 
in infectious diseases, particularly scarlet fever, measles, 
infectious colds, etc., has followed the systematic disin- 
fection of school books and school premises. 

The insanitary condition of many of the non-provided 
schools is notorious. Such buildings are usually over- 
worked, and there is no time for proper cleaning. Unless 
ample time for cleaning, disinfecting, and flushing with 
fresh air can be arranged, 110 premises should be allowed 
to be used as a school. Moreover the average public 
elementary school is not clean. While the buildings are 
new they look bright and fresh, but the condition of the 
majority of schools leaves a great deal to be desired. 

For the periodic routine disinfection of floors the best 
plan is to run over the floor with a mop soaked in a disin- 
fectant solution, and leave the floor thus well moistened 
until the following morning. Of course the disinfecting 
liquid must be of the necessary strength. 

Associated with school disinfection is the dust problem. 
It is impossible to estimate how many children acquire 
some form of tuberculosis, especially consumption, from 
school dust. The author's experiments show an enormous 
difference in the number of organisms in the air when the 
floor is coverel with dust-preventing preparations. 

Pens, Pencils, Slates, etc. 

These can be easily disinfected by soaking in disinfectant 
solutions. In most schools these articles are used in com- 
mon, and must be carefully attended to. Modelling clay 
that may have been infected should be disinfected by heat 
and thrown away. 



SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 353 

Books, Papers, etc. 

When these may have been infected the best plan is to 
burn them. If this is objected to on the score of economy 
they may be suspended on lines across the room when the 
premises are being disinfected by formaldehyd. Or they 
may be placed on end, with open pages, in an air-tight 
receptacle, and subjected to the action of formaldehyd for 
twenty-four hours. 

Probably no ordinary system in use gives really satis- 
factory bacteriological results, and it is quite possible that 
a good dusting and exposure to sunlight in the open air 
would be quite as reliable. Steam disinfection is im- 
possible on account of its disastrous effects upon leather 
and also upon the glutinous material used in the binding. 
The only really satisfactory solution of the problem is the 
provision of separate books to be reserved for the use of 
individual scholars. 

Dr. Kaye suggests as an alternative that each scholar on 
using a book should write his name and the date therein. 
" This would tend to impart an idea of the value of books 
and the care necessary in handling thehi. It would also 
enable the books recently used by a sick scholar to be 
discovered and destroyed ; and it might furnish valuable 
clues in tracing the course of a disease." 

Desks, etc. 

If gaseous disinfection is used for the rooms the desks 
are left in during the process. Afterwards they must be 
thoroughly scrubbed with disinfectant soap and water. If 
a spray is used the desks must be sprayed thoroughly and 
then washed. 

SCH. HYG. 23 



CHAPTER IX. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 

THE Education (Administrative Provisions) Act came 
into operation on January 1, 1908. Section 13 is as 
follows : 

13. (1) The powers and duties of a Local Education 
Authority under Part III. of the Education Act, 1902, 
shall include : 

(b) The duty to provide for the medical inspection 
of children immediately before, or at the time 
of, or as soon as possible after, their admission 
to a public Elementary School, and on such 
other occasions as the Beard of Education direct, 
and the power to make such arrangements as 
may be sanctioned by the Board of Education 
for attending to the health and physical con- 
dition of the children educated in public 
Elementary Schools. 

This section of the Act was subsequently interpreted by 
the issue of a Memorandum, which is now generally re- 
garded as the most statesmanlike document ever issued by 
the Education Department. The more important points 
dealt with in this Memorandum are: 

I. That the aim of the new Act is not merely to produce 
a record such as is obtained by systematic medical inspec- 
tion, but to bring about a general physical improvement 

354 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 355 

of the race. It is extremely likely that by proper attention 
to the health of the children the numbers of the criminal 
and pauper classes will be considerably diminished. 

II. As a result of the introduction of medical skill into 
the methods of education it appears very likely that the 
methods at present in existence will have to be considerably 
modified in order that they may be adapted to the physical 
needs of the children. It is beginning to be realised that 
a healthy and vigorous frame is, from a national standpoint, 
a matter of supreme importance. 

III. Organisation. The whole of the work is to be 
oiganised under the direct supervision of the Medical 
Officer of Health, and the Memorandum contains definite 
instructions that the existing machinery of medical and 
sanitary administration must be used to the utmost extent, 
and that the whole of the work should be carried out in 
intimate conjunction with the Public Health Authorities. 

IV. Grants. It is repeatedly emphasised that the work 
actually suggested in the Memorandum must be regarded 
as a minimum interpretation of the Act. 'The effectiveness 
of the working will be taken into consideration in deter- 
mining the grant for the schools. In this connection it is 
to be noticed that beyond such minimum requirements 
certain important developments are mentioned, and in all 
probability the amount of the grant will depend upon the 
extent to which such developments are carried. For instance, 
special arrangements for attending to the health and physical 
condition of the children are expected to be submitted to 
the Board from time to time, and other special work is 
alluded to. It is extremely likely that special earmarked 
grants will be made for the work of medical inspection and 
its inevitable sequelae. 



356 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

V. The Teachers. The possibility of assistance by the 
teachers is alluded to, and the necessity of their cordial 
sympathy and help is specially mentioned. I have already 
dealt with this matter to some extent, and suggest that in 
the ordinary schools a special assistant teacher be selected 
in each department. It should be arranged for all teachers 
to receive some definite instruction on the subject, but so 
far as possible the teacher should be selected on account 
of some special knowledge of hygiene. 

VI. The Parents. It is evidently regarded as very im- 
portant that the parents and the homes must be affected 
by the Act, and that a sense of duty and responsibility 
must be stimulated, also efforts must be made to obtain the 
attendance of one or both parents at the first medical 
inspection of the child. 

VII. The Medical Examination. The actual examina- 
tion consists in recording certain facts regarding the 
previous history of the child and other facts relating to 
its present condition. Particular attention has to be given 
to the special senses, sight and hearing, and teeth. The 
inspection must be conducted in school hours and on school 
premises, and the facts entered in a register kept at the 
school. It will be necessary to keep records at the Health 
Department in the form of a sheet- filing system. 

VIII. The Routine Work. Four inspections of each child 
are suggested, the first on admission to school, the second 
three years after, the third after another three years' 
interval, and the fourth on leaving school. The ordinary 
year's work will be : 

(1) The examination of the children on entry, i.e. age 

5 or 6 years. 

(2) The examination of children ready for the second 

inspection, i.e. age 7 or 8 years. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 357 

(3) The examination of children ready for the third 

inspection, i.e. age 10 years. 

(4) The examination of children leaving the school, 

i.e. soon after the thirteenth year. 

IX. Work for 1908. The work expected for 1908 is the in- 
spection of children on entry and also those leaving the school. 

X. Work for 1909. The work for this year is the 
examination of children entering, children leaving, and 
also those who are ready for their second inspection, as 
defined by VIII. (2) above. 

XI. Developments. Further developments of the Act are 
outlined in the Memorandum, viz. : the establishment of 
school surgeries and clinics, the treatment of diseased and 
defective children, the provision of school baths, the pro- 
vision of meals, and other matters. 

XII. A special recommendation with regard to the type 
of school books is of the greatest possible importance, and 
all Education Committees should adopt the regulation that 
no school books should be purchased without the type 
having been approved by the Medical Officer. 

It is difficult to imagine how the above work can le 
organised successfully in any other way than by co-ordinat- 
ing it with the existing machinery of the Health Department 
of the Medical Officer of Health. To attempt to divide the 
work into two parts, school and general district work, with 
separate organisations, would be to directly and definitely 
invite endless friction and reduplication of labour. Every- 
thing concerning the health of the district should be 
organised entirely at the Health Department of the town 
or the county, and for smooth and efficient working it is 
imperative for the Medical Officer of Health to have sole 
charge and responsibility. Any attempt to separate the 



PH 





















' tfl 


p4 ^ 




d 


5 

o 

. W . . 

: g : : : 9 
S g ^ > 8 

C5 ^ S : 

III S^ 

" W M g 

H M M ^ "^ p 

a & 3 p S s 


^ g 

: : :|| I = 

3 ^ a 1 

5 H 

IB j T 1 5 1 

1^ I ^ 

S g Z 3 g 

W <1 M t3 W ^ & 

P fc P3 H 5 W ^ 


ANAEMIA 
CHOREA 


































o 








PQ 


































a' 2 


1 


i i (_i 


ADDRESS 


DATE EXAMINED 
AGE 
NUTRITION, Good, Mediu 
HEIGHT 
WEIGHT 

CHEST /Inspkat 
MEASUREMENT \Expirat 

CLEANLINESS |^ od ? " 


: ld'^J'i 

'illi s ii|t 

^ O'OPQ . -* o 80 
S , ' : J o 'd 'g 
^( o <u .2 

3 5 so * 3 

g v^ / pi v^^ 
G KI 

S H M H W 

s S g 1 5 

O OQ H &4 W 


PERSONS IN HOUSE | 0ve 



358 



M 




| 




&4 




^ 









vJ 




o 




a 




H 









(H 

W 




02 









O 




H 




4 




> 




M 




W 
































; QJ 




i> 


fc fl 

-1 ^ - ) 

n 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 

g |s'J|^l 

3 ^ PQ OQ EH <1 C5 J__^ m_ 


. . : p 
^j ^ 

1 1 ; 13 N g : 

EL J 3 H K 

Ul "~? ' 4_) M r^M . 

r^J J3 c/3 O CJ P 

s a s s a a 


EH 

s S w 
d 


Tf 1 

1 ^ s 
s g g | 

W O 



360 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

work would necessitate the employment of an inferior type 
of official, and considerably increase the total cost. 
The work involved may be classified as follows : 

1. Routine Inspection- 

(a) By the teachers or school nurse. 

(b) By the medical officer. 

2. Special Work. 

(a) By the attendance officers. 

(b) By the teachers. 

(c) By health visitors or school nurses. 

(d) By the medical officer. 

3. Work of Amelioration. 

SYSTEM OF RECORDS. 

(a) At Schools. 

It is necessary first to decide upon the system that is to 
be adopted. In order to display all the examinations of 
any child in a manner that will be of value, a separate 
card must be used for each child. A convenient size is 
10 in. by 6 in. An objection to the card system is that 
it may become altogether disarranged without the defect 
being easily discovered. Also supervision is difficult, and 
any attempt to check the work involves considerable time 
and labour. On the other hand, the employment of a 
register appears to present insuperable difficulties. 

If the minimum requirements of the Board of Education 
are aimed at, the arrangement of the cards is simple. 
After the division into boys and girls the principal index is 
the year of examination, and the subdivisions are according 
to ages. In the subdivisions the cards are arranged 
alphabetically. For instance, if a child of 5 years is 
examined in 1908, and is found to be normal, the card 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 361 

is filed among the children due to be examined in 1910, 
and is placed under " Age 7." A special subdivision would 
relate to the exceptional cases requiring additional ob- 
servations. 

If observations concerning the children are to be made 
every year, the best method of classification will be to 
arrange the children in each department alphabetically, 
boys and girls separately, in their age groups. For the 
examination by the Medical Officer it will then only be 
necessary to pick out the required age groups, e.g. in 1908 
the age groups 5 (or 6) and 13; in 1909 the ago groups 
5, 7, and 13 (or 6, 8, and 13); and in 1910 the age groups 
5, 7, 10, and 13 (or 6, 8, 10, and 13). The card used by 
the author is shown on pages 358, 359. 

(I) At the Health Department, 

If the above cards formed the only records it would be 
found impossible to prepare reports or to summarise the 
results obtained, especially as to averages of heights and 
weights, percentage of defective, etc. Summary sheets 
must therefore be used. The summary sheet used by the 
author is shown on pages 362, 363. The chief headings, 
arranged vertically upon the child's card, are placed hori- 
zontally on the summary sheet, so that the entries made 
upon the card at any particular examination can be copied 
upon the summary sheet opposite the child's name. There 
is room for twenty-five names upon a sheet, so that a full 
sheet would represent the maximum amount of work that 
can be done in half a day. The filling up of these sheets is 
described later on. Boys and girls should.be entered upon 
different sheets, and separate sheets should be used for 
different ages. 

These sheets, therefore, not only form records of work 
in the order in which it is done, but also provide a safe- 



DO JVOT FOLD THIS SHEET. 



SUMMARY 



CHILDREN EXAMINED ON 



AGE OF 



NAME. 
Surname first. 





I 



.P 

1 


CLEANLI- 

NESS. 


CLOTHING. 


1 

CO 


TEETH. 


Deformity. 


f 


! 


Body 


Head 


Quan 
tity. 


Clean 

liness 


Boots 


Total 


4 






























_ 


Totals 














Averages 































862 



SHEET. 



CHILDREN. 



SCHOOL 



i 

I 

5 

W 


Lung Disease. 


NOSE AND THROAT. 


EARS. 


EYES. 


VISION. 


" 


OBSERVATIONS 
BY 
MEDICAL 
OFFICER. 


NOTICES 
ISSUED, 


"' 


It 


m 

H 


1 

5 


|f 





Near. 


.2 = 

Q^ 


S l 







































363 



364 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

guard against loss or displacement of the separate cards 
at the school. 

In those districts where the actual inspection has to be 
carried out by assistants to the Medical Officer of Health, 
these summary sheets regularly despatched to the Central 
Office are also of great value in comparing work done and 
in securing uniformity. Notes and queries can be made 
on the sheets, thereby saving a considerable amount of 
formal correspondence between the assistants and the 
Central Office. 

ROUTINE INSPECTION. 

1. Work by Teachers. 

The scholar's card in use at Handsworth is shown on 
pages 358, 359. The cost of these cards is approximately 
16s. per 1,000. On the front of the card are nine columns, 
one for each year of school-life from 5 to 13 years, and 
teachers are expected to fill up a column every year on the 
card of each child in the school. The writer considers 
it indispensable that these observations should be made 
annually if they are to be of any value. They are made 
very rapidly when the teachers become accustomed to the 
work. At Handsworth a small remuneration is paid to 
a specially selected assistant teacher in each department 
for being responsible for all the clerical labour involved. 

An excellent introduction to the work is afforded by a 
course of lectures to teachers by the Medical Officer, and 
the opportunity can be taken to explain simple methods 
of eye and ear testing such as can well be undertaken by 
teachers. 

The cards are then supplied to the various departments 
in sufficient quantities, and boxes to hold 400 cards can 
be obtained at about 3s. Gd. each. The box should be kept 
under lock and key in a cupboard or desk. A circular 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 365 

letter of directions is then sent to each head teacher. The 
following is an example : 

Medical Inspection of School Children. 

DEAR SIR OR MADAM, 

It is desirable that a school card should be prepared 
for every child in the schools, beginning with those children 
who reach the age of 6 years during 1908, and also those 
who reach the age of 13 during the present year. 

The buff cards are for boys and the azure cards for girls. 

At the top of the card all the information can be filled 
up with the exception of the number of vaccination marks. 

On the admission of any child, its previous history, with 
regard to the group of infectious diseases, should be carefully 
ascertained and noted ; the diseases that have been suffered 
from being denoted by a date placed against them. Also 
on admission the occupation of the father and the in- 
formation concerning the house and the number of occupants 
in the house should be ascertained. 

The filling up of the height (without boots), weight 
(in ordinary indoor clothes, but without . shoes), and chest 
measurements should then be undertaken, chest measure- 
ments being taken under the outer garment, and the two 
figures should represent the minimum and maximum 
measurements. 

The cleanliness of body and head should be recorded by 
using the capital initial letter of one of the four descriptive 
terms that are on the card. 

With regard to clothing, the quantity should be recorded 
by the word sufficient (suff.) or insufficient (insuff.), as 
denoting the ordinary condition of affairs. Cleanliness of 
clothes is recorded in the same way as above, and boots as 
good, medium, or bad. 

The sight should be rapidly tested in the way that has 



366 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

been already described at the lectures,* and the children 
thereby classified in the three groups, the normal, the 
slightly defective, and the obviously defective, denoted by 
A, B, and C respectively. 

The total number of teeth and the number among these 
that are decayed should be recorded. 

Finally, the hearing is roughly tested in the way that 
has been described at the lectures.*!* 

Faithfully yours, 
R, A. LYSTER, Medical Officer. 

For the ordinary year's work (1910 and onwards) the 
teachers should get filled up as rapidly as possible the cards 
of those children who are due for medical examination. 
Afterwards the other children can be dealt with. 

The following steps are now taken : 

1. A letter is sent to the head teacher to the effect that 
the Medical Officer will attend at the school at a certain 
day and hour, and requesting that certain groups of 
children (see page 356) be selected for examination. The 
head teacher then sends out, at least one clear day before 
the medical inspection, the following notice to the parents 
or guardians of the children selected for examination. 

DEAR SIR OR MADAM, 

Under the Act of 1907 it has been made compulsory 
upon Education Authorities to arrange for the medical 
inspection of school children. The medical examination 
of your child has been arranged for next, the 

of at o'clock at the school. 

If you wish to be present during the examination I am 
to request your attendance at the school at the above- 
mentioned time. Yours faithfully, 

HEAD TEACHER. 
* Pages 196, 196. f Page 201. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 367 

The teacher should also see that the cards of the selected 
children are filled up as far as possible in readiness for 
the inspection. The maximum number of children for 
examination during any morning or afternoon is 25, and 
where the school is sufficiently large to permit it, children 
of the same sex and approximately the same age should 
be selected for examination at any one time. In any case 
it must bo remembered that separate summary sheets 
must be used for boys and girls, and that one sheet should 
contain the records of children of approximately the same 
age. The entries made on the card by the teacher are 
copied on the summary sheet in readiness for the visit of 
the Medical Officer. 

When the medical officer attends the school the head 
teacher should have ready a table and three chairs in a 
class-room, or a screened part of the school. The chairs 
are occupied by the medical officer, the parent (if present), 
and an assistant teacher. The head teacher should arrange 
that each child is prepared with clothes over the chest, 
already loosened or removed, and that as each examination 
is completed the next child on the list is ready. 

The medical officer rapidly fills in the parts of the card 
not already completed, and then hands the card to the 
assistant teacher, who copies his records upon the summary 
shett. At the end of the morning or afternoon the 
summary sheet forms an exact record of the work done 
at any one sitting, 

2. The Medical Officer's Work. 

Properly and intelligently assisted, it will be found quite 
possible to examine at the rate of ten children per hour, 
but a great deal depends upon the kind of assistance 
given by the teachers. The Memorandum of the Board of 
Education has been misinterpreted by some into meaning 



368 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

that all children were to be examined in detail, and that 
positive or negative opinions were to be expressed upon 
every point. Such cannot be the intention, because under 
these conditions the scheme would be unworkable. Obviously 
the intention is to arrange for every child to have the 
benefit of a medical opinion as to whether its physical and 
mental condition is such as to enable it to take full 
advantage of the educational opportunities that are pre- 
sented. Children whose ages, heights, and weights are in 
proportion, who appear normal upon casual inspection, and 
who have passed the simple tests of sight and hearing 
conducted by the teacher should be rapidly passed on. 
The essential object of the routine medical examination 
is to weed out those children who are abnormal. The 
question that inevitably arises is whether an exact diagnosis 
of all abnormal conditions is necessary or desirable. My 
personal opinion is that all that should be expected of the 
school medical inspector is the classification of the abnormal 
conditions into groups, without exact diagnosis, except in 
the more obvious and simple conditions. My chief reason 
is that, as a rule, the school medical officer cannot possibly 
treat the cases that he discovers. A vast amount of the 
" amelioration" referred to in the Memorandum of the 
Board of Education (beyond general schemes for controlling 
ringworm, verminous conditions, etc.) will be brought about 
by merely pointing out to parents the fact that children 
require medical attention, but there certainly would be 
friction if the children are taken to the general practitioners 
with a ready-made diagnosis on a card. Also the children 
passed on to hospitals or dispensaries for treatment would 
meet with a doubtful reception under such circumstances. 
It will be far better to regard the medical officer of 
health and the school medical officer chiefly as the means 
whereby the normal can be separated from the abnormal. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 369 

the abnormal roughly sorted and classified, and also whereby 
improvements can be brought about in many general 
conditions concerning the scholars and school-life. For 
instance, at present, in many districts it appears to be 
sheer waste of time for a medical inspector to ascertain 
exactly the amount of deficiency of vision in a given case 
of defective sight. Very rough testing will determine 
whether the child can see sufficiently well for ordinary 
school purposes or not. If special attention is considered 
to be necessary, the sight undoubtedly will be exactly 
tested by the ophthalmic surgeon under whose care, either 
privately or at hospitals or dispensaries, the vast majority 
of such cases will come. The school doctor will be far 
more profitably employing his valuable time in following 
the advice of the Memorandum and removing "unsatis- 
factory conditions of school -life which are a common cause 
of fatigue and of injured eyesight," and in bringing about 
such educational modifications as will avoid the necessity 
of spectacles and " diminish the prevalence of the bad habit 
of working the eyes near distance, or ensure the adoption of 
suitable type of letterpress for the readers' eyes." 

At the medical inspection it is convenient to hand the 
cards, as they are filled up, to an assistant (a teacher 
usually), who copies the records upon a prepared summary 
sheet as already described. These summary sheets should 
be used separately for boys and girls and for different ages 
(in years). Such sheets enable the medical officer to keep 
the statistical records continuously up to date, instead of 
leaving an accumulated mass of material until the end 
of the year. 

SPECIAL WORK. 

1. By Attendance Officers. 

In the ordinary course of their work the attendance 
officers receive from parents various excuses as to their 

24 



370 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 



children's absence from school. If any suspicious or in- 
fectious or contagious disease or condition is given as the 
reason to the attendance officer, he at once forwards such 
cases to the medical officer on the following form : 



NOTIFICATION OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 



. Department. 



To the Medical Officer of Health. 



SIB, 

At the foot hereof I forward you a list of cases of Infectious 
and Contagious Diseases which have been reported to me. 
Yours faithfully, 



Attendance Officer. 



NAME. 


RESIDENCE. 


DOCTOR 
ATTENDING. 


DISEASE. 











These notifications by attendance officers are most valuable, 
and intelligent officers are of the greatest possible help. 
Cases of measles, chicken-pox, mumps, sore throat, ring- 
worm, skin diseases, verminous heads (usually reported as 
" eczema of scalp "), and many other conditions, are 
brought at once to the notice of the medical officer of 
health. The medical officer examines these reports, and 
either arranges for the inspection of the children at home 
or sends a notice asking for the child to be brought to see 
him. Cases visited are recorded on special cards, of which 
the following is a type : 













S 1 
















'c 






















o 
























c 


s 





















_, 


^ 


















2 


c 
c 


ri 




r3 


s 












p 


1 


V. 




p 


15 














q 








Exclud 




1 
















Honse visited 








Excluded 
until. 












2 
























"o 
























o 












c 
























1 


fi 1 






















2 


a 











































cr 




1 


0) 

bC 


















s 




CO 
















rrt 


p 





















VI 


1 


H 




5 
















CD 







p 


















;_, 


r^ 


4^ 


c 


















rQ 


S^ 


p 


*JT! 


















r U2 


f^ 


03 


I-H 


















^ 


1 


a 

C 


1 




o 

a 




: 








p 






CJ 


-JJ 


















03 





1 


a 
a 

6 


1 
1 
















Parents 



s. 



371 



372 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

If a doctor is in attendance, the time of return of the child 
is left for him to decide as a general rule. 

Similar cards are used for measles, whooping-cough, 
chicken-pox, while those cases for which there are no 
special cards are recorded upon a general card as below : 

NOTIFIED CASES. 

Name. Age. 



School Notified by on 



On the other hand, some children may be considered to 
be fit to come and see the medical officer, and to these cases 
a notice is sent requesting the parent to bring or send the 
child. 

As the result of the information thus gaintd, it is 
possible in many cases to decide definitely when the child 
will probably be fit to return to school. Accordingly, the 
following notice is sent to the parents : 

URBAN DISTRICT OF HANDSWORTH. 
HEALTH DEPAKTMENT. 



Owing to the existence of in your house it will 

be necessary to keep the following children from school until the 
dates against their names : 



The following children may continue to attend school 
as usual : 



Medical Ojfticer of Health. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 



373 



Similar information is sent to the Education Office on the 
following form : 

URBAN DISTRICT OF HANDSWORTH. 

HEALTH DEPARTMENT. 
School. 



Owing to the existence of infectious disease in their homes the 
undermentioned children have been excluded from school until the 
dates shown against their respective names : 



NAME. 



ADDRESS. 



EXCLUDED UNTIL. 



The undermentioned children may continue to attend 
school as usual : 



NAME. 



ADDRESS. 



Medical Officer of ITealth. 

Also, the head teachers are similarly notified as to children who 
are excluded, or those who are allowed to return to school, 



374 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 



Of course many cases are discovered that need medica^ 
attention, but are not receiving it. These and similar 
cases are dealt with under " Amelioration." 

It is astonishing to observe the effect of work such .as is 
described above. The parents quickly appreciate the fact 
that increased attention is being given officially to infec- 
tious and contagious diseases and conditions, and increased 
vigilance and carefulness on their part is soon noticeable. 

2, By the Teachers, 

Unfortunately it is quite common for children to arrive 
at school in such a condition as to justify the teacher 
sending them home because they obviously may be a source 
of danger to the other children. Stamped post-cards, 
addressed to the medical officer of health, are supplied to 
the head teachers. 



These contain the following notice : 



Schools, 



^Department. 



The undermentioned children have been sent home to-day 
for the reasons indicated against their respective names: 



NAME. 


ADDRESS. 


REASON FOH 
EXCLUSION. 





















Date 



Head Teacher. 



The reasons given include sore throats, swollen glands, 
skin eruptions, verminous conditions, rashes, discharging 
ears, etc. 

These cases are treated in precisely the same fashion as 
those notified by the attendance officers. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 375 

On the other hand, there are a number of children whom 
the head teacher does not feel altogether justified in 
sending home, but who are apparently abnormal in some 
way. For notifying these cases similar post-cards are 
supplied, stating that " the following cases appear to require 
medical examination without delay." These cases are seen 
at the school as quickly as possible. A keen and observant 
teacher can be of far greater real use in detecting sus- 
picious cases than a school nurse, because such a teacher is 
seeing the children every day, and knows their normal 
appearance. In both the above ways a large number of 
children are discovered who are in urgent need of medical 
attention. 

3. By School Nurses or Health Visitors. 

The school nurse should also be a health visitor. They 
are useful in visiting notified cases at home, and reporting 
to the medical officer. At the home they are able to follow 
up the printed recommendation that medical attention is 
necessary by personally urging the parents to call in a 
doctor. Their help in personally assisting the parents to 
treat properly ringworm and verminous conditions is also 
valuable. 

4. By the Medical Officer. 

From the above outline it is obvious that the medical 
officer will be kept constantly in touch with the happenings 
in the district, and will have brought to his notice a very 
large proportion of the infectious and contagious diseases 
and conditions that are among the children. Attendance 
officers, teachers, and school nurses will be constantly 
presenting special cases for examination. 

WORK OF AMELIORATION. 

The work of amelioration must be attempted at first as a 
matter for experiment. Different districts require different 



376 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

methods, not only because their needs are not the same, 
but also because agencies are available in some that are not 
in others. After definitely ascertaining the needs of the 
district in these directions, and after carefully experimenting 
with different methods, it will be desirable that Local 
Education Authorities should ultimately formulate and 
submit to the Board schemes for the amelioration of the 
evils revealed by the medical inspection. 

1. Notices to Parents. 

As a preliminary step in cases requiring medical or 
parental attention, and brought to light in one of the many 
ways referred to above, a notice -hould be sent to the 
parent. Notices concerning verminous heads have already 
been referred to earlier in the book, and similar notices 
may be sent concerning other cases requiring attention 
from the parents. Where medical attention is required a 
notice should be sent to the parent stating that the child is 
in need of medical attention, and requesting that the same 
may bo obtained without delay. It is not advisable that a 
definite diagnosis should be part of this notice. By follow- 
ing up such cases it will be possible to determine which of 
them are prevented by poverty from obtaining treatment. 
With the present poor law and its administration, the 
treatment of such cases presents almost insuperable 
difficulties, but it is, perhaps, not too much to hope that the 
day of the " guardians of the poor " is over, and that 
Boards of Guardians will soon cease to exist. It is impos- 
sible to understand why their existence has been tolerated 
for so long, in the face of so many revelations of incapacity 
and corruption on the part of both guardians and officials. 

The old problem of poor law administration is constantly 
brought before all school medical officers. In their ordinary 
work they frequently meet genuine cases of need, and in 
still more instances they have such cases reported to them. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 377 

Unfortunately, however, they can usually do nothing 
officially. Both friendly suggestions and simple reports 
appear to cause irritation and resentment on the part of 
relieving officers and all officials connected with the poor 
law administration. One would imagine, from common- 
sense principles, that there should be the closest intimacy 
between the public health organisation and the poor law 
work ; in fact it is obvious to those people who have given 
time and attention to the subject that public health and 
poor law work should be practically one public department. 
But at present it is impossible to imagine any two 
departments more isolated from each other, and the 
public good must continue to suffer until they are brought 
together. 

The machine-like methods adopted in poor law adminis- 
tration are resulting in the overcrowding of workhouses, 
and have increased rather than diminished pauperism. It 
not only, in many cases, robs the poor of the little self- 
respect, courage, and independence that the stress of 
circumstances has left to them, but it also makes perma- 
nent paupers of many who, with a little outside assistance, 
would soon be able to hold up their heads before the 
world. Wise and humane discrimination is the essential 
part of successful charitable effort, and the public charity 
which treats all cases alike is as unwise as the private 
generosity which gives to all cases, whether deserving or 
not. The present poor law methods appear to have fostered 
a grovelling and shifty spirit among the poor, because it is 
found that such characteristics are the surest passports 
to assistance, while the few who have preserved their 
original and sturdy independence, and who constitute the 
very best type of the poor, regard the whole system with 
very obvious horror. 

My reason for introducing this subject is that it is 
inseparably connected with the public health. Poverty and 



378 THE ORGANISATION OP MEDICAL INSPECTION 

disease work on each other in a vicious cycle. Among the 
poor there is a vast amount of infectious illness continually 
present. Many such cases remain unreported, untreated, 
and practically unknown. They serve, however,' as a 
continual and ever-present focus for the spread of such 
diseases among the general public. There is thus consti- 
tuted a most grave public danger. The only possible way 
to remove such a danger is to devise improved and more 
easily available means for treating these cases. Treatment 
and prevention are inseparably associated in practically 
all diseases. The one is essentially the complement of the 
other. By adequately providing for the early recognition 
and the proper treatment of all disease, an almost incredible 
improvement in the public health would rapidly result. 
The mere existence of disease, altogether apart from any 
consideration as to whether it is accomplished by destitution 
or not, should be sufficient to ensure proper medical treat- 
ment, if the public are to be relieved of the ever-present 
dread of the sudden and rapid spread of infection. 

For ordinary cases requiring relief every one agrees that 
the closest investigation should always be made in order to 
separate the deserving case from the parasitic type that 
is unfortunately so common. But no such investigation 
should be required in cases of disease. In such instances 
it is not the individual but the public good that should be 
considered, and it is of urgent public importance that all 
such cases should be treated without one moment's delay. 
Only by such methods will a successful attempt be made to 
check the continual spread of disease. 

2. School Nurses and Health Visitors. 

. Many districts will probably decide to utilise the 
services of the teachers in preparing for and assisting to 
carry out the work of routine medical inspection, but there 
will still remain a considerable amount of work that 






THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 379 

teachers cannot do. The chief part of such work is in 
connection with the homes of the children, and this work 
is best done by health visitors, such as are already employed 
by local authorities. In fact, many authorities are realising 
that this work is most economically and satisfactorily 
performed by health visitors working under the health 
department. Such persons can follow up special cases, 
and report upon them as well as the home conditions. 

3. District Sub- Committees. 

The formation of special sub-committees for dealing with 
cases discovered by the inspection is greatly to be desired- 
Persons should be chosen who, besides being educationists, 
are interested in health questions, or who occupy positions 
which enable them to influence philanthropic or charitable 
agencies for the amelioration of conditions of defective 
eyesight, teeth, or hearing, and for treatment in general. 
Deficient food and clothing are also matters that will cer- 
tainly occupy the attention of such a committee. 

4. School Baths. 

An important ameliorative influence will be introduced 
by the provision of school baths. 

5. Other Ameliorative Work. 

Important items in the work of the medical officer 
must include : 

(a) The exclusion of affected children, supervision 
and examination of "contacts," and disinfection 
of schoolrooms, in order to check the spread 
of infectious disease. 

(>) The oversight of the sanitation of the school 
buildings. 



380 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

(c) The organisation of a systematic supervision 

of the personal and home life of the child. 

(d) The stimulation of public interest locally towards 
the important problem of defective nutrition 
in children. 

The above is intended merely as a suggestive outline of 
work to be performed. It is undoubtedly capable of almost 
indefinite improvement and extension ; but, judging from 
the gratifying thanks received by the writer from medical 
officers to whom he has explained the methods used by 
him, it may prove to be useful in some cases. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 381 

STATISTICS REGARDING CHILDREN'S TEETH. 

1. Ages at which the Milk Teeth are lost. 

4 Central incisors drop about the 7th year. 
4 Lateral 8th 

4 First molars 9th ,, 

4 Second molars ,, ,, 10th 

4 Canines llth 

20 



2. Ages at which Permanent Teeth appear. 

4 First molars appear about the 6th year. 
4 Central incisors ,, 7th 
4 Lateral incisors ,, 8th 
4 First bicuspids ,, ., 9th ,, 
4 Second bicuspids ,, 10th ,, 
4 Canines ,, ,, llth 
4 Second molars ., 13th ,, 
_4_ Third molars 18th-25th year, 
32 



3. Average Number of Teeth at School Ages. 



Age. 


Temporary 
Teeth. 


Permanent 
Teeth. 


Total. 


6 


20 


4 


24 


7 


16 


8 


24 


8 


12 


12 


24 


9 


8 


16 


24 


10 


4 


20 


24 


11 





24 


24 


13 





28 


28 



INDEX. 



i BSCBSS of middle ear, 200. 
A Accidents, 315. 
Accommodation, 177. 
Acland, 238. 
Adam's apple, 207. 
Adenoids, 166, 204, 299. 

, effects of, 205, 299. 
,, , treatment of, 301. 
Afternoon lessons, 255. 
Air, amount required, 68, 69. 

and ventilation, 62. 

carbon-dioxide in. 64, 66, 66, 67, i 

changes in density of, 74. 

composition of, 63. 

disinfection of, 351 

drying of, 102. 

effect of breathing dry, 102. 
hot, 52. 
,, ,, impure, 70. 

expired, 63. 

impurities of, 64. 

inlets, 76. 

in soil, 15, 16, 17. 

inspired, 63. 

moisture in, 97. 

organic matter in, 69. 

passages, 208, 209. 

saturated, 97. 

tests for impurities in, 66. 

treatment of, in ventilation 91 

unsaturated, 97. 

water vapour in, 97. 
Alcohol, 282, 285, 309. 
America, education laws in, 9. 

,, , medical inspection in, 12. 
Anaemia, 286. 
Aqueous humour, 175. 
Arithmetic, 256. 
A mot's valve, 81. 
Articulation, 209. 

, defects in, 211. 
Artificial illuminants, 48. 

,, respiration, 330. 

ventilation, 88. 
Arytenoid cartilages, 207. 
Aspect of building, 20. 
Asphalt, 22. 
Aspirates, 210. 
Aspiration by wind, 75. 
Assembly hall, 38. 
Astigmatism, 182. 
Attention, fixing of, 254. 
Auditory nerves, 199. 

,, word centre, 273. 



382 



BABY talk, 273. 
Backs to desks, 129. 
Bacteria in soil, 14. 

, nitrifying, 14. 
Basements, 33. 
Basins, 110. 
Baths, 111, 227. 

,, , shower-, 111. 

Belgium, medical inspection in, 12. 
Bites, 319. 
Blackboards, 133. 
Black Hole of Calcutta, 71. 
Bleeding, 315. 
Blinds, 48. 
Blood, 316. 

Board of Education, 348. 
Bondings, 27. 
Bone, deformities of, 286. 
Books, disinfection of, 353. 

,, , print of, 187. 
Boots, 219. 

Bowels, action of, 221. 
Boyle's air pump ventilator, 75. 

,, mica flap ventilator, 82. 
Brain, 267. 

,, , special centres of, 273. 
Bread, 240. 
Breatliing exercises, 166-171. 

,, , mouth, 166. 
Broken bones, 319. 
Bruises, 319. 
Burns, 323. 
Butter, 240. 



CAPILLARIES, bleeding from, 315. 

U Carbon dioxide, 64-68. 

Carbon, tests for, 65, 66. 

Cardiac weakness, 293. 

Caries of teeth, 231. 

Central halls, 38. 

Centres, association of brain, 272. 

, automatic, 270, 271. 

, development of brain, 274. 

, motor, 273. 

, respiratory, 271. 

, sensory, 273. 

, speech, 273. 
Cerebrum, 268. 
Cesspools, 120. 
Chadwick, 257. 
Chalk, 133. 

Changes in density of air, 74. 
Chest measurements, 250. 



INDEX. 



383 



Chicago, medical inspection in, 12. 

Chicken pox, 336. 

Chimney ventilation, 76. 

Chimneys in ventilation, 81. 

Chorea, 289. 

Choroid, 173. 

Circulation, effect of exercise on, 160. 

Cisterns, 105. 

Classrooms, 42. 

,, , cleansing of, 134. 
,, , lighting of, 45. 
, shape of, 42. 
, temperature of, 59. 
,, , ventilation of, 72. 
Cleaning of desks, 134. 

,, floors, 134. 

walls, 134. 

,, windows, 134. 
Cleanliness, 222. 
Cleft palate, 279. 
Cloakrooms, 33-37. 
Closets, 113-118. 
Closure of schools, 348. 
Clothing, 213. 

,, , errors of, 215. 

for boys, 219. 



girls, 219. 
,, school, 218. 
,, , objects of, 214. 
,, , rules about, 215. 
Clouston, 239. 
Coats of eyeball, 173. 
Cohn, 186. 
Cold, signs of, 289. 
Colds, 280. 
Colour of walls, 33. 
Conductors, 213. 

Conference on School Hygiene, 2, 3, 5. 
Congenital heart disease, 294. 
Congestion of eyes, 189. 
Consonants, 210. 
Consumption, 304. 

and alcohol, 309. 
and dust, 307. 
of bone, 305. 
brain, 305. 
,, intestines, 305. 
, predisposing causes of, 306. 
, prevention of, 310. 
Convection, 51. 
Convolutions, 268. 
Convulsions, 284. 
Cornea, 173. 
Corridors, 38. 
Cough, whooping, 342. 
Cramming, 258, 264. 
Cranial nerves, 269. 
Cretinism, 284. 
Crichton- Browne, 260. 
Cricoid cartilage, 207. 



Croup, 344. 
Crystalline lens, 175. 
Curvature of spine, 286. 

pvAMP-PROOF course, 24, 25, 26. 
1) Deaf and dumb children, 203. 
Deafness, 199. 
Decay of teeth, 231. 

,, ,, , cause of, 233. 
,, ,, ,, , prevention of, 234. 
Defective children, 275. 

,, ,, , varieties of, 277. 

,, eyes, 179. 
,, ,, , treatment of, 191. 
Deformities, 252. 
Denmark, education laws in, 9. 

,, , medical inspection in, 12. 
Dentine, 230. 

5, 121-132. 

, adjustment of, 127. 

, arrangement of, 132. 

, cleaning of, 134. 

, minus, 125. 

, position in, 123. 

, single and dual, 130. 

, sizes of, 122, 128. 

, slope of, 123. 

, varieties of, 124. 
D squamation, 338. 
D w point, 97. 
D arrhcea, 290. 
D ffusion, 72 
Diphtheria, 344. 

,, , bacteriological examination 
for, 205, 345. 

,, , "carriers," 344. 

,, , causes of, 344. 

,, , spread of, 344. 
Discharging ears, 200. 
Disconnection chamber, 108. 
Disease and short sight, 184. 
Diseases, epidemic, 332. 
,, , infectious, 332. 
,, , spread of , 333. 
Disinfectants, 351. 
Disinfection of books, 353. 

,, ,, desk.-?, 353. 

,, ,, pencils, 352. 

,, pens, 352. 

,, ,, schools, 351. 

slates, 352. 

Dislocations, 322. 
Distance, 124. 
Drainage, 106. 
Drain pipes, 106. 
,, testing, 109. 
,, ventilation, 108. 
Drains, 105. 
Drill, 154, 161-163. 
Drowning, 329. 
Dry area, 26. 



384 



INDEX. 



Dry closets, 114. 
Dukes, 236, 237, 259. 
Dumb children, 203. 
Dust, 307. 

troughs, 133. 

EAR, 198. 
,, , discharge from, 200. 
,, drum, 198. 
, foreign bodies in, 826. 
, internal, 199. 
, middle, 199. 
,, , testing of, 252. 
Earache, 200. 
Earth closets, 114. 
Eczema, 296. 

Education in Hygiene, 8, 10. 
Efferent nerves, 269. 
Elevation of building, 20. 
Mlisan'8 bricks, 81. 
Enamel of teeth, 230. 
Entrances, 37. 
Epidemic diseases, 332. 
Epiglottis, 207. 
Epilepsy, 327. 
Epileptic children, 282. 
Examinations, 263. 
Exercise, 155-163. 

, breathing, 166. 
, effect on heart, 160. 
,, , effect on respiration, 160. 
, effect on skin, 160. 
,, , physiological effects of, 160. 
Extraction in ventilation, 93. 
Eye diseases, 290. 
Eyeball, muscles of, 176. 

,, , structure of, 173. 
Eyelids, inflammation of, 291. 
Eyes, 172 et seq. 

, , astigmatic, 182. 
, , foreign bodies in, 325. 
, , humours of, 175. 
, , long sighted, 180. 
, , movements of, 176. 
, , muscles of, 176. 
, , normal, 177. 
, requiring attention, 196. 
, , short sighted, 179. 
, , structure of, 173. 
Eyesight, testing of, 193, 251. 

in West Biding, 195. 

Eye strain in astigmatism, 182. 
, signs of, 185. 

T1 AILURE of modern education, 5, 6, 9. 

T Paintings, 326. 

Fans, 88. 

Fatigue, muscular, 253. 

,, , nervous, 253. 

,, , prevention of, 254. 
Fats, 237, 238. 



Favus, 298. 

Feeble-minded children, 276. 
Feeding of school children, 240-245. 
,, , Report of inter-departmental 

Committee on, 242. 
,, , Royal Commission on, 241. 
Filters, 104. 
Fireplaces, 51. 

, Gallon's, 53. 
in ventilation, 52. 
Fires, 51. 
Fits, 327. 

, hysterical, 328. 
Flat foot, 287. 
Flies and disease, 334. 
Floor space, 42. 
Floors, 28, 29. 
Focussing, 177. 
Food and dietaries, 239-245. 
, constituents of, 240. 
, cooking of, 245. 

for children, 240. 
, kinds of, 239. 
, lack of, 241. 
Footings, 24, 25. 
Foot rests, 130. 
Force-producing foods, 240. 
Foreign bodies in ear, 326. 
eye, 325. 
,, nose, 325. 
skin, 326. 
,, stomach, 325. 
throat, 324. 
Formalin, 351. 

spray apparatus, 351. 
Foundations of schools, 23. 
Fractures, 319. 
France, medical inspection in, 12. 

r< A L TON S fireplace, 53. 

^ Games, 159, 161, 163-165, 257. 
Games, clothing for, 220. 

,, for girls, 165. 
Garments, 218. 
Gas, 48. 

Gases, diffusion of, 73. 
German measles, 341. 
Germany, medical inspection in, 12. 
Girls, education of, 258. 
Glottis, 207. 
Gorst, Sir John, 1. 
Grey matter of brain, 267. 

,, ,, ,, spinal cord. 269. 
Ground air, 15, 16. 

water, 14, 15, 18. 
Gymnasium, 165. 

HABITS, 220. 
Haemorrhage, 315. 
Hair, care of, 222. 
,, , ringworm in, 297. 



INDEX. 



385 



Hair, vermin in, 224. 
Hats, 219. 

Head, cleansing of, 223. 
,, , coverings for, 219. 
Headache, causes of. 292. 
Hearing, defects of , 1SJ9. ' 

,, , tests of, 201, 252. 
Heart, disease of, 293. 
Heating, 50-61. 

,, and ventilation, 52, 53, 54 

by fives, 51, 52, 53. 
,, ,, hot air, 53, 54, 57, 58. 
,, ,, hot pipes, 55, 50, 57. 

,, ,, hot water, 55-57. 

., ,, stoves, 53, 54. 

,, , methods of, 51-00. 
Heights of children, 122. 
Heredity and short sight, 183. 
Hinckes Bird's ventilator, 78. 
Holiday tasks, 205. 
Holidays, 205. 

Holland, education laws in. 0. 
Holophane globe, 50. 
Home work, 204. 
Hot water pipes, 55-58. 
Hours of work, 258. 
Humidity, relative, 98. 
Hydrocephalus, 2s3. 
Hygrometer, 100. 
Hysterical fits, 328. 

IDIOTS, 275. 

.1 Illumination, amount of. 46. 

Impetigo, 290. 

Incandescent burners, 50. 

Incisor teeth, 228. 

Incubation period, 332. 

Indigestion, 295. 

Infantile mortality, 4. 

Infants, clothing for, 219. 
,, , desks for, 131. 

Infection by dust, 307. 

,, , prevention of, 334. 

Infectious diseases, 332. 

, table of, 347. 
Inflamed eyes, 292. 
Injuries at school, 3, 4, 8. 
Injury to eyes, prevention of 191 
Ink, 189. 
Inspection chamber, 100. 

,, of school children, 354 
Instruction in Hygiene, 8, 10. 
Intermediate style of writing, 14G. 
Iris, 173. 

Italy, education laws in, 9. 
Itch, 298. 

JAPAX, medical inspection in, 12. 
Joints, 287. 

., of drains, 107. 



7^4 YE, 195, 335, 353. 
-* x JKerr, 186, 192, 223. 

T ARYXX, 200. 

Ju ,, , cartil.-iges of, 207. 

Lautler-Brunfon, 221. 

Lavatories, J(>9. 

Leaded type, 1SS. 

Left hand, use of in writing, 1-19. 

Lens, 175. 

,, , accommodation of, 177. 
,, , suspensory ligament of, 175. 
Lessons, length of, 254. 
Lice, 223. 

Lighting, artificial, 48. 
,, by prisms, 47. 

by ribbed glass, 47. 
, electric, 48. 
, methods of, 48. 
, natural, 44. 

of schools, 44-30. 
, tests for effective, 40, 191. 
, windows in, 45. 
Long sight, ISO. 

,, , signs of, 190. 
Zouvre-ventilator, 78. 

MALNUTRITION and short sight,184 
Mai postures, prevention of, 130. 
Maps, IS!). 

McKinndVs tubes, 83. 
Measles, 339. 310. 

,, , (icrman, 341. 
Measurements of chest, 250, 202. 
,, height, 245, 2(31. 
,, weight, 245, 201. 
Medical inspection of schoolchildren, 2. 

3, 11, 12. 248, and Ch. IX.. Part II! 
Medical Officer of Health, 11, 247,248,249. 

,, ,, Schools, 247. 

Vfedical supervision, 4, 11, 12, 248. 
Memory, 200. 

Afental deficiency, causes of, 282. 
Mentally defective children, 275. 

,, ,, , classification 

of, 283. 
,, ,, , detection 

of, 278. 

,, ,, , diet of, 281. 

,, ,, , education 

of, 280. 
,, , parents of, 

281, 282. 
,, ,, , schools for, 

280. 
,> ,, , varieties of, 

277. 

ticrocephalus, 2S5. 
lilk, 240, 242. 
lilk teeth, 229. 

25 



38G 



INDEX. 



Minus desks, 124-120. 

Modern education, failure of, 5, 6, 9. 

Moisture in air, 07-103. 

Molar teeth, 229. 

Morning lessons, 255. 

Motor nerves, -2(39. 

,, speech centre, 273. 
Mouth breathing, 1(56. 
Multiple desks, 130. 
Mumps, 343. 
Muscles, growth of, 157-160. 

,, of eye, 176. 
Myopia, 183. 

\TASO-PHARYNX, 204. 

ll Natural ventilation, 72, 82-88. 

Nature study, 9. 

Nerves, 2(39. 

Nervous system, 2G7. 

in the child, 271. 

,, ,, , sympathetic, 267, 271. 

Nitrification, 14. 
Nitrifying bacteria, 14. 
Nitrogen, (i3. 
Non-conductors, 213. 
Normal eye, ] 77. 
Nose, bleeding from, 318. 

OATMEAL, 240. 

\J Oblique muscles of eye, 176. 

Opening* for ventilation, 7(5. 

Optic nerve, 175. 

Oiganic matter in air, 69. 

,, ,, ,, , detection of, 70. 
Overpressure, 260. 
Overstrain, 2(30. 
Overwork, 260. 

,, and development, 262. 

and growth, 261. 

, effects of, 261-263. 

, signs of, 260. 

DAGET, 257. 
* Palate, 203. 
Paper, 189. 

,, for books, 189. 
Pawnshops, 218. 
Pens, holding of, 147. 
Pernation, 75. 
Permanent teeth, 229. 
Personal cleanliness, 222. 
Pharynx, 203. 
Phthisis, 304. 
Physical exercises, 154. 
Pigeon breast, 300. 
Platform for teacher, 133. 
Playgrounds, 22. 

Plenum method of ventilation, 88. 
Plus desks, 124. 
. distance, 124. 



Poisoning, 328. 
Porous soils, 14. 
Position for reading, 139. 
standing, 151. 

writing, 143, 150. 

,, in desk, 123. 
Postures, 136 et seq. 

,, , general rules for, 152. 
Priestley Smith, 50, 128, 185, 186. 
Propulsion, 90. 
Pulp cavity, 230. 
Pupil of eye, 174. 

AUARANTINE, 334. 



RADIATION, 51. 
Radiators, 58. 

Reading in infant classes, 192. 
,, , slope of desk for, 123. 
Recess, 163, 257. 
Recti muscles, 176. 
Red eyes, 291. 
Reflex action, 270. 
Relative humidity, 98. 
Resonants, 210. 
Respiration, 68. 

,, , effect of exercise on, 160. 
Rest, 236. 
Retina, 173. 

Ribbed glass, use of, 47. 
Rickets, 288. 
Ringworm, 297. 
Roofs, 80, 31. 

Rooms, cubic capacity of, 42. 
Rounded shoulders, 152. 
IloyalCommission on physical training,2 

QANITARY appliances, 104. 

kJ ,, arrangements, 113. 

Scabies, 298. 

Scalds, 323. 

Scalp, cleanliness of, 222. 

Scarlatina, 337. 

Scarlet fever, 337. 

School Hygiene Conference, 2, 3, 5. 

hygiene, definition of, 1. 

,, medical officers, 11, 12. 

,, uniform, 219. 
Schoolrooms, temperature of, 59. 
Schools, accommodation in, 42. 

, central hall type, 38. 

,, , class-rooms, 42. 

,, , cleansing of, 134. 

, closure of, 348. 

,, for defective children, 280. 

, furnishing of, 121. 

, heating of, 50-61. 

, lighting of, 44-50. 

,, , number of stories in, 23. 

, placing of, 20. 



INDEX. 



387 



Schools, planning of, 38-42. 
, sanitation of, 104. 
,, , sites for, 13 et seq. 
, Staffordshire type, 39-41. 
,, , ventilation of, 41. 
,, , warming of, 50. 
Sclerotic, 173. 
Scurjield, Dr., method of testing air, 

66, 67. 

Seat of desks, 129. 
Seats, arrangement of, 123. 

,, , defective, 125. 

,, , single, 130. 
Segffel, 185. 
Sewing, 192. 
Shaw, 227. 

Sheffield system, 131. 
Sherringham's valves, 80. 
Short sight, 179, 183. 

,, ,, , signs of, 190. 
Short-sighted eye, 179. 
Shower baths, 111. 
Sight, defective, 179. 

,, , disease arid, 183. 

,, , heredity and, 183. 

., , long, 180. 

, malnutrition and, 183. 

,, , sewing and, 186, 192. 

,, , short, 179, 183. 
Site of school, 13 et seq. 
Sitting, act of, 137. 

,, , malpostures in, 136-151. 
Skin, dirt of, 222. 

,, , diseases of, 295. 

,, , effect of exercise on, 160. 

,, , liygiene of, 222. 
Slanting style of writing, 146. 
Slate as blackboards, 133. 
Slates, disinfection of, 353. 
Sleep, 236. 

,, , deficient, 238. 
Slum makers, 9. 
Slums, 9. 
Smallpox, 335. 
Snel tin's types, 194. 
Soil, dampness of, 14, 18. 

., , drainage of, 18. 

j, , influence on health, 18. 

, made, 18, 19. 

. pipe, 118. 

,, , surface, 13. 
Soils, diseases associated with, 19. 

,, , impervious, 15. 

,, , porous, 14. 

,, , warmth of, 19. 
Sore throats, 205, 303. 
Spectacles, 180, 181, 191. 
Speech apparatus, 209. 
,, , defects of, 211. 
,, production, 209. 
Spinal cord, 2(59. 



Spinal nerves, 269. 
Spine, curvature of, 286. 

,, , tuberculosis of, 287. 
Spitting, dangers of, 222. 
Spouts, 31. 
Sprains, 322. 
Squint, 182. 

Staffordshire school, 39-41. 
Staircases, 37. 
Stammering, 211. 
Standing, 151. 
Starches, 239. 
Stays, 219. 
Stings, 319. 
Storeys, 28. 
Stoves, 53. 

Structure of teeth, 230. 
Stuttering, 211. 
St. Vitus' Dance, 289. 
Stye, 291. 
Subsoil, 13. 
Suffocation, 329. 
Sugars, 239, 240. 
Summer diarrhoea, 20. 
Surface soil, 13. 
Surroundings of bxiilding, 21. 
Survival of the fittest, 7. 
Sweden, education laws in, 9. 
Switzerland, medical inspection in, 12. 



1EETH, care of, 10, 228, 234. 

, causes of decay of, 233. 



decay of, 232. 
kinds 



of. 228. 
; milk, 229. 

of school children, 231, SSI. 
, permanent, 229. 
, structure of. 230. 
, wisdom, 230. 
Test type, 194. 
Testing drains, 109. 
,, of eyesight, 193. 
,, ,, in West Iliding,19^ 
Tests of hearing, 201. 
Ihroat, 203. 

,, , diseased condition of, 299. 
Thyroid cartilage, 207. 
Tight clothes, 215. 
Tiles, 31. 
Time-table, 256. 
Tissue-forming foods, 210. 
Tobin's tubes, 79. 
Tonsils, 203, 302. 
Tooth-brush, 235. 
Training for sports, 1 59. 
,, of teachers, fe. 
Traps, 107. 
Trough closets, 117. 
Twitching of eyes, 291. 
Type, 187-189. 



388 



INDEX. 



TTNCLEAN heads, 223. 
U Underclothing, 217. 
Underfed childlen, 241. 
Urinals, 119. 
Uvula, 203. 

YENTILATING grates, 53. 
,, stoves, 54. 

Ventilation, 62. 

, artificial, 88. 
by Arnott's valves, 81. 

Boyle's mica flap, 82. 
chimney, 70. 
Ellison's bricks, 81. 
extraction, 93. 
fans, 88. 
propulsion, 90. 
Sherringkam valves, 80. 
Tobin's tubes, 79. 
windows, 77-79. 
, effect of cubic space on, 62. 
,, , effects of bad, 70, 71. 
,, in rural schools, 96. 

,, in town schools, 95. 

inlets and outlets, 76. 

,, methods, 72. ' 

, natural, 72. 
,, of drains, 108. 

, tests of, 65-67, 94. 
, value of natural, 82-88. 
Ventilator, Boyle's, 75. 
,, , Louvre, 79. 
, McKinnell's, 82. 
Vermin, 10. 

Vertical style of writing, 147. 
Vitreous humour, 175. 
Vocal cords, 207. 
Voice, 206. 



, care of, 211. 

, loudness of, 208. 

, pitch of, 208. 

production, 208. 
, quality of, 208. 



Voice, range of, 208. 

. , tenor, 208. 

,, test of ears, 202. 
Vomiting, 326. 
Vowel sounds, 209. 

WALL, colour of, 33 
,, coverings, 32." 
Warner, 278. 
Watch test of ears, 201. 
Water closets, 116. 
,, , ground, 14, 15. 
,, in soil, 14, 18. 
supply, 104. 
,, vapour in air, 97. 
Wclsbach burner, 50. 
Wenham gas burner, 49. 
Wet and dry bulb hygrometer, 100. 
Whooping cough, 342. 
Wind pipe, 206. 
Window blinds, 48. 

,, ventilation, 77. 
Windows, 45-48. 

,, , area of, 45. 
, cleaning of, 48. 
,, , height of , 45. 
,, , position of, 45. 
Winds, 74. 

Word blindness, 277. 
,, deafness, 277. 
Work, hours of, 258. 
Wounds, 315. 
Writing, 143. 

for beginners, 145. 

,, , holding the pen for, 147. 

,, , intermediate style of, 146. 

, slanting style of, 146. 

, the desk for, 125. 

,, , the position for, 150. 

, vertical style of, 147. 

*/7ERO desks, 124. 

LL 



New Books and New Editions published since July 1, 1907, are 
underlined. 



Select list of 

IN THE 

^Tutorial Series* 



Tflm\>er0it tutorial presa XS 

W. B. CLIVE, 157 DRURY LANE, LONDON, W.C. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGES 

Education .... 2 

Mathematics and Mechanics 3-5 

Biology .... 5 
Physics . . . . 6, 7 

Chemistry .... 7 

French .... 8 

P]nglish Classics ... 9 



PAGES 

, 10 
, 11 
, 11 
12 
12 
13 
Latin and Greek Classics 14, 15 



English Text-Books . 
Philosophy .... 
Modern History . 
Geography .... 
Roman and Greek History 
Latin and Greek Text-Books 



The General Catalogue (32 pages] ; Sectional Catalogues in 
(1) Mathematics and Mechanics, (2) Science, (3) Classics, (4) English 
and French, with History, Philosophy, etc. ; and Special Catalogues 
for London University and other Examinations, may be had post free 
on application. 
SKPTEMBER 1908. 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



jB&ucation, etc 

Principles and Methods of Teaching. By J. WELTON, M.A., Pro- 
fessor of Education in the University of Leeds. 4s. 6d. 

CONTENTS. General Function of Teaching Material of Instruc- 
tion Form of Instruction The Teaching of English : Preparatory, 
Reading, Literature, Composition and Grammar, Summary Music 
History Geography Natural History Mathematics Form 
Needlework. 

"A well-written and full presentation of the best educational methods of the 
time. Not only to college student, but to skilled and experienced practitioner, we 
commend this suggestive and very helpful volume." Schoolmaster. 

"A valuable and thoughtful book." The Speaker. 

Voice Training in Speech and Song. By H. H. HULBERT, M.A., 

M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Lecturer on Voice Production and 
Examiner in Physical Education to the London County Council, 
etc. Is. 6d. 

An account of the structure and use of the vocal organs and of 
the means of securing distinct articulation. 

School Hygiene. By R. A. LYSTER, M.D., B.Sc., D.P.H., County 

Medical Officer of Health for Hampshire and Chief Medical 
Officer to the Education Committee of the Hampshire County 
Council. 3s. 6d. 

School Organisation. By S. E. BRAY, M.A., Inspector of Schools 

to the London County Council. 2s. 
11 We can heartily recommend the treatise." Journal of Education. 

School Training. By R. E. HUGHES, M.A. 2s. 

" Well written and thoroughly up-to-date." Journal of Education. 

Principles and Methods of Physical Education and Hygiene. By 
W. P. WELPTON, B.Sc. 4s. 6d. [In the press. 



Perspective Drawing, The Theory and Practice of. By S. POLAR, 

Art Master. 5s. 

A complete course of instruction covering the requirements of the 
Board of Education Syllabus in Perspective Drawing. 

Science German Course. By C. W. PAGET MOFFATT, M.A., M.B., 
B.C. 3s. 6d. 

Containing an efficient grammatical introduction, a section on 
word-formation, extracts from German text-books on the several 
sciences, and vocabularies of scientific terms. 

" The book provides a convenient means of obtaining sufficient acquaintance with 
the German language to read simple scientific descriptions in it with intelligence." 
Nature. 



- 
THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 3 

fIDatbematics anb flDecbanics. 

Algebra, The Tutorial. ADVANCED COURSE. By WM. BRIGGS, 

LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., and G. H. BRYAN, So.D., F.R.S. Third 
Edition. 6s. 6d. 

A higher text-book of Algebra in which the more elementary 
properties of quadratic equations and progressions are assumed. 
" It is throughout an admirable work." Journal of Education. 

Algebra, The New Matriculation. With a Section on Graphs. By 
R. DEAKIN, M.A., late Headmaster of Stourbridge Grammar 
School. Fourth Edition. 3s. Gd. 
"One of the best elementary text-books we have seen." Teachers' Monthly. 

Arithmetic, The Tutorial. By W. P. WORKMAN, M.A., B.Sc. 
Third Edition. (With or without Answers.) 4s. 6d. 

A higher text-book of Arithmetic containing a very thorough 
treatment of Arithmetical theory, with numerous typical examples. 

"Takes first place among our text-books in Arithmetic." Schoolmaster. 

Arithmetic, The School. An edition of the Tutorial Arithmetic for 

school use. By W. P. WORKMAN, M.A., B.Sc. Second 
Edition. (With or without Answers.) In one vol., 3s. 6d. 
Part I., 2s. Part II., 2s. 
"The best Arithmetic for schools on the market." Mathematical Gazette. 

Arithmetic, The Junior. Adapted from the Tutorial Arithmetic by 

R. H. CHOPE, B.A. (With or without Answers.) 2s. 6d. 
" Excellent." Educational Times. 

Arithmetic, Olive's New Shilling. Edited by-WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., 

M. A., B.Sc. Is. With Answers, Is. 3d. ANSWERS, 6d. 
"These exercises are well chosen and progressive." Schoolmaster. 

Arithmetic, The Primary. Edited by WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., M.A., 
B.Sc., F.R.A.S. An Introductory Course of Arithmetical 
Exercises. In Three Parts. Parts I. and II., each 6d. Part 
III., 9d. With Answers, each Part Id. extra. 
"Thoroughly suited for use in elementary schools generally. "School Guardian. 

Astronomy, Elementary Mathematical. By C. W. C. BARLOW, 
M.A., B.Sc., and G. H. BRYAN, Sc.D., M.A., F.R.S. Second 
Edition. (With Answers.) 6s. 6d. 

Book-keeping, Practical Lessons in. Adapted to the requirements 
of the Society of Arts, London Chamber of Commerce, Univer- 
sity Locals, etc. By T. C. JACKSON, B.A., LL.B. 3s. 6d. 

Book-keeping, Junior. By T. C. JACKSON, B.A., LL.B. Is. 6d. 

" The book is an excellent one." Accountants' Magazine. 



\ 
4 THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 

/Ifeatbematics anfc flfcecbanics continued. 

Coordinate Geometry. By J. H. GRACE, M.A., F.R.S., and F. 

ROSENBERG, M.A., B.Sc. 4s. 6d. 
An elementary treatment of the straight line, circle, and conic. 

Dynamics, The Tutorial. By WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., 

and G. H. BRYAN, Sc.D,, F.R.S. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. 
"A clear and lucid introduction to Dynamics." Saturday Review. 

Euclid. By RUPERT DEAKIN, M.A. With an Introductory Course 
of Drawing and Problems in Practical Geometry. Books I., 
II., Is. Books I. -IV., 2s. 6d. Books V., VI, XL, Is. 6d. 

" If any schoolmaster is not satisfied with the text-book he has at present in use, 
we recommend him to try this one." Educational Times. 

Geometry, Deductions in. A Collection of Riders and Practical 
Problems. By T. W. EDMONDSON, B.A., Ph.D. 2s. 6d. 

Geometry, Theoretical and Practical. By W. P. WORKMAN, M.A., 

B.Sc., and A. G. CRACKNELL, M.A., B.Sc., F.C.P. 
PART I. Contains the matter of Euclid, I., III. (1-34), IV. (1-9). 
2s. 6d. PART II. Euclid, II., IV. (10-16), VI. 2s. 

This work is also published in Sections as follows : 
Section I. Introductory Course. 9d. 

Section II. Plane Rectilinear Figures. (Euclid, I.) Is. 6d. 
Section III. The Circle. (Euclid, III. 1-34, IV. 1-9.) Is. 
Section IV. Rectangle-Theorems and Polygons. (Euclid, II., 

III. 35-37, and IV. 10-16.) Is. 
Section V. Similar Figures. (Euclid, VI.) Is. 6d. 
Section VI. Solid Geometry. (Euclid, XL) [In the press. 

Sections I. -IV. are published under the title Matriculation 
Geometry. 3s. 6d. 

" One of the best books on modern lines." Oxford Magazine. (Part I.) 
" Sound and sensible throughout." Nature. (Part II.) 

Graphs : The Graphical Representation of Algebraic Functions. 
By G. H. FRENCH, M.A., and G. OSBORN, M.A., Mathematical 
Masters of the Leys School, Cambridge. Second Edition, Re- 
written and Enlarged. Is. 6d. 

Graphs, Matriculation. (Contained in The New Matriculation 
Algebra.) By C. H. FRENCH, M.A., and G. OSBORN, M.A. Is. 

Hydrostatics, Intermediate. By WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., 
F.R.A.S., and G. H. BRYAN, Sc.D., F.R.S. 3s. 6d. 

Hydrostatics, The Matriculation. (Contained in Intermediate 
Hydrostatics.) Bv Dr. BRIGGS and Dr. BRYAN. 2s. 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 5 

/IDatbematics anfc /Ifeecbanics continued. 

Mechanics, The Matriculation. By Dr. WM. BRIGGS and Dr. G. H. 

BRYAN. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. 
" It is a good book clear, concise, and accurate." Journal of Education. 

Mechanics, Junior. By F. ROSENBERG, M.A., B.Sc. 2s. 6d. 

A beginner's course of reading in Dynamics and Statics suitable 
for the majority of elementary examinations in that subject. 

Mensuration and Spherical Geometry. By Dr. BRIGGS and Dr. 
EDMONDSON. Third Edition. 3s. 6d. 

The Right Line and Circle (Coordinate Geometry). By Dr. BRIGGS 

and Dr. BRYAN. Third Edition. 3s. 6d. 

"It is thoroughly sound throughout, and indeed deals with some difficult points 
with a clearness and accuracy that has not, we believe, been surpassed." Education. 

Statics, The Tutorial. By Dr. WM. BRIGGS and Dr. G. H. 

BRYAN. Third Edition. 3s. 6d. 
"Written with commendable clearness." Educational Times. 

Tables, Olive's Mathematical. Edited by A. G. CRACKNELL, M. A., 
B.Sc. Is. 6d. 

Trigonometry, Junior. By WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., 
F.R.A.S., and G. H. BRYAN, Sc.D., M.A., F.R.S. 2s. 6d. 

Trigonometry, The Tutorial. By WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., M. A., B.Sc., 

and G. H. BRYAN, Sc.D., F.R.S. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. 
"The book is very thorough." Schoolmaster. 



Plant Biology. An elementary Course of Botany on modern lines. 

By F. Cavers, D.Sc., F.L.S., A.R.C.S. 3s. 6d. 
Plants, Life Histories of Common. An Introductory Course of 

Botany based on the study of types by both outdoor. and indoor 
experiment. By F. CAVERS, D.Sc., A.R.C.S., F.L.S. 3s. 

Botany, The New Matriculation. By A. J. EWART, D.Sc. 3s. 6d. 

Botany, A Text-Book of. By J. M. LOWSON, B.Sc., F.L.S. Gs. 6d. 

" It represents the nearest approach to the ideal botanical text-book that has yet 
been produced." Pharmaceutical Journal. 

Physiology, First Stage Human. By G. N. MEACHEN, M.D., B.S. 
Lond., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S. 2s. 

Zoology, A Text-Book of. By H. G. WELLS, B.Sc., and A. M. 
DAVIES, D.Sc. Fourth Edition. 6s. 6d. 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



The Tutorial Physics. By R. WALLACE? STEWART, D.Sc., 
E. CATCHPOOL, B.Sc., C. J. L. WAGSTAFF, M.A., W. R. 
BOWER, A.R.C.Sc., and J. SATTERLY, B.A., B.Sc. In 6 Vols. 

I. Sound, Text-Book of. By E. CATCHPOOL, B.Sc. Fourth Edition. 

3s. 6d. 

A full account of the theory of Sound treated from the physical 
rather than the mathematical standpoint. 

"A full, philosophical, and decidedly original treatment of this branch of 

physics. " Educational Times. 

II. Heat, Higher Text-Book of. By R. W. STEWART, D.So. 

Second Edition. 6s. 6d. 

The subjects of Thermodynamics, Radiation, and Critical State 
are treated at length, and special chapters have been devoted to 
Graphic Methods, Thermometry and Pyrometry, and the Lique- 
faction of Gases. 

"Clear, concise, well arranged, and well illustrated." Journal of Education. 

III. Light, Text-Book of. By R. W. STEWART, D.Sc. Fourth 
Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 4s. 6d. 

A very full treatment of the elements of Geometrical Optics. 

"The style of the book is simple, the matter well arranged, and the principles 
accurately and concisely set forth." Educational Review. 

IV. Magnetism and Electricity, Higher Text-Book of. By R. W. 
STEWART, D.Sc. Second Edition 6s. 6d. 

In the new edition an adequate though elementary account of 
the Electron Theory of Matter and Radio-Activity has been 
inserted. 

"The text is exceedingly lucid and painstaking in the endeavour to give the 
student a sound knowledge of physics." Nature. 

V. Properties of Matter. By C. J. L. WAGSTAFF, M.A. Second 

Edition. 3s. 6d. 

An account of those branches of Physics which are not usually 
included in books on Light, Sound, Heat, or Electricity. 

"Very interesting sections are those on moments of inertia from an elementary 
point of view, Boys' modification of Cavendish's experiment, surface tension, and 
capillarity. "School. 

VI. Practical Physics. By W. R. BOWER, A.R.C.S., and J. 
SATTERLY, B.Sc., A.R.C.S. 4s. 6d. 

A laboratory manual containing a full course of elementary 
experiments in all branches of physics. 

" Great pains have evidently been taken to secure efficiency, and the result is a 
text-book which merits great praise." Nature. 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



continued. 

The New Matriculation Heat : The New Matriculation Light : The 
New Matriculation Sound. By R. W. STEWART, D.Sc. 2s. 6d. 

each volume. 

A carefully organised course of coordinated theoretical and 
practical work in Physics. 

" The treatment is lucid and concise, and thoroughly in accordance with the most 
recent methods of teaching elementary physics. An oiitstanding feature of these 
books is the inclusion of a number of experiments which may be performed with 
the most simple and inexpensive apparatus, and from which satisfactory results 
may be obtained." Nature. 

Electricity, Technical. By Professor H. T. DAVIDGE, B.Sc., 
M.I.E.E., and R. W. HuTCHlNSON, B.Sc. 4s. 6d. 

" A most desirable combination of sound instruction in scientific principles and 
engineering practice." Educational Neics. 

Magnetism and Electricity, School. By R. H. JUDE, D.Sc. 3s. 6d. 
Experimental Science, Junior. By W. M. HOOTON, M.Sc. 2s. 6d. 

"An excellent and workable two years' course in Experimental Physics an.l 
Chemistry." Educational News. 

Cbemtetr?. 

The Tutorial Chemistry. By G. H. BAILEY, D.Sc., Ph.D. Edited 

by WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., F.C.S. 
Part I. Non-Metals. Fourth Edition. 3s. 6d. 
Part II. Metals and Physical Chemistry. Sec. Ed. 4s. 6d. 
" The leading truths and laws of chemistry are here expounded in a most masterly 
manner." Chemical News. 

The New Matriculation Chemistry. By G. H. BAILEY, D.Sc., 

Ph.D. Edited by WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., F.C.S. 

Third Edition. 5s. 6d. 
Synopsis of Matriculation Chemistry. By WM. BRIGGS. LL.P , 

M.A., B.Sc., F.C.S. Is. 6d. 
Chemical Analysis, Qualitative and Quantitative. By WM. 

BRIGGS, LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., F.C.S., and R. W. STEWART, 

D.Sc. Fourth Edition. 3s. 6d. 
An Introductory Course of Chemistry. By H. W. BAUSOR, M.A. 

2s. 6d. 
A Safe Course in Experimental Chemistry. By W. T. BOONE, B. A. , 

B.Sc. 2s. 

Systematic Practical Organic Chemistry. By G. M. NORMAN, B.Sc., 

A.R.C.Sc., F.C.S. Is. 6d. 
An Introduction to Carbon Compounds. By R. H. ADIE, M.A., 

B.Sc. 2s. 6d. 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



Jrenclx 



Junior French Course. By E. WEEKLEY, M.A., Professor of 
French at University College, Nottingham, and Examiner in 
the University of London. Second Edition. 2s. 6d. 
"Distinctly an advance on similar courses." Journal of Education. 

The Matriculation French Course. By E. WEEKLEY, M. A. , Examiner 
in French at the University of London. Third Edition, En- 
larged. 3s. 6d. 

" The rules are well expressed, the exercises appropriate, and the matter accurate 
and well arranged." Guardian. 

French Accidence, The Tutorial. By ERNEST WEEKLEY, M.A. 
With Exercises, Passages for Translation into French, and a 
Chapter on Elementary Syntax. Third Edition. 3s. 6d. 
" We can heartily recommend it." Schoolmaster. 

French Syntax, The Tutorial. By ERNEST WEEKLEY, M.A., and 

A. J. WYATT, M.A. With Exercises. 3s. 6d. 
" It is a decidedly good book." Guardian. 

French Grammar, The Tutorial. Containing the Accidence and the 
Syntax in One Volume. Second Edition. 4s. 6d. Also the 
Exercises on the Accidence, Is. 6d. ; on the Syntax, Is. 

French Prose Composition. By E. WEEKLEY, M.A. With Notes 

and Vocabulary. Third Edition, Enlarged. 3s. 6d. 
"The arrangement is lucid, the rules clearly expressed, the suggestions really 
helpful, and the examples carefully chosen. " Educational Times. 

Class- Work in French Composition. By E. WEEKLEY, M.A. 2s. 

" A useful series of passages of continuous English for translation into French 
prose." School Guardian. 

Junior French Reader. By E. WEEKLEY, M.A. With Notes and 

Vocabulary. Second Edition. Is. 6d. 
' ' A very useful first reader with good vocabulary and sensible notes. " Schoolmaster. 

French Prose Reader. By S. BARLET, B. es Sc., and W. F. 
MASOM, M.A., Examiner in the University of London. With 
Notes and Vocabulary. 2s. 6d. 
"Admirably chosen extracts." School Government Chronicle. 

The Matriculation French Reader. Containing Prose, Verse, Notes, 
and Vocabulary. By J. A. PERRET, Examiner in French at 
the University of London. 2s. 6d. 
" We can recommend this book without reserve." School World. 

Advanced French Reader. Edited by S. BARLET, B. es So., and 

W. F. MASOM, M.A. Second Edition. 2s. 6d. 
"Chosen from a large range of good modern authors." Schoolmaster. 

Higher French Reader. Edited by E. WEEKLEY, M.A. 3s. 6d. 

" The passages are well chosen, interesting in themselves, and representative of 
the best contemporary stylists." Journal of Education. 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



Classics, 

Bacon's Essays, I. -XX. By A. F. WATT, M.A. Is. 6d. 
Chaucer. Canterbury Tales. By A. J. WYATT, M.A. With 

Glossary. Prologue. Is. Knight's Tale, Nun's Priest's Tale, 

Man of Law's Tale, Squire's Tale. Eacli with Prologue, 2s. 6d. 
Dryden. Essay of Dramatic Poesy. By W. H. Low, M.A. 3s. 6d. 
Dryden. Defence of the Essay of Dramatic Poesy. Preface to the 

Fables. By ALLEN MAWER, M.A. Is. 6d. each. 
Johnson. A Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland. By E. J. 

THOMAS, M.A. 2s. 6d. 

Johnson. Life of Milton. By S. E. GOGGIN, M.A. Is. 6d. 
Langland. Piers Plowman. Prologue and Passus I. -VII., Text B. 

By J. F. DAVIS, D.Lit., M.A. 4s. 6d. 
Milton. Early Poems, Comus, Lycidas. By S. E. GOGGIN, M.A., 

and A. F. WATT, M.A, 2s. 6d. Areopagitica. Is. 6d. 
Milton, Paradise Lost, Books I., II. By A. F. WATT, M.A. Is. 6d. 

Books IV., V, By S. E. GOGGIN, M.A. Is. 6d. 
Milton. Paradise Regained. By A. J. WYATT, M.A. 
Milton. Samson Agonistes. By A. J. WYATT, M.A. 
Milton. Sonnets. By W. F. MASOM, M.A. Is. 6d, 
More. Utopia. By R. R. RUSK, Ph.D. 2s. 
Pope. Rape of the Lock. By A. F. WATT, M.A. Is. 6d. 
Shakespeare. By Prof, W. J. ROLFE, D.Litt, In 40 volumes. 



2s. 6d. 
2s. 6d. 



As You Like It 
King John 



2s. a Volume. 
Midsummer Night's 
Dream 



Much Ado About Nothing 
Tempest 



All's Well that Ends Well 
Antony and Cleopatra 
Comedy of Errors 
Coriolanus 
Cymbeline 
Hamlet 
Henry IV. Parti. 
Henry IV. Part II. 
Henry V. 
Henry VI. Parts I. -III. 
Henry VIII. 


2s. 6d. a Volume, 
Julius Caesar 
King Lear 
Love's Labour's Lost 
Macbeth 
Measure for Measure 
Merchant of Venice 
Merry Wives of Windsor 
Othello 
Pericles 
Richard II. 
Richard III, 



Romeo and Juliet 

Sonnets 

The Taming of the Shrew 

The Two Noble Kinsmen 

Timon of Athens 

Titus Andronicus 

Troilus and Cressida 

Twelfth Night 

Two Gentlemen of Verona 

Venus and Adonis 

Winter's Tale 

Shakespeare. Midsummer Night's Dream. Richard II. By A. F. 
WATT, M.A. Hamlet. Merchant of Venice. By S. E. 
GOGGIN, M.A. Tempest. By A. R. WEEKES, B.A. 2s. each. 

Shakespeare. Henry VIII. By W, H. Low, M.A. 2s. 
Spenser. Faerie Queene, Book I. By W. H. HILL, M.A. 2s. 6d. 



10 THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



English language an& literature. . 

The English Language : Its History and Structure. By W. H. Low, 
M.A. With TEST QUESTIONS. Sixth Edition, Revised. 3s. 6d. 

"A clear workmanlike history of the English Language done on sound principles." 
Saturday Review. 

The Matriculation English Course. By W. H. Low, M.A., and 
JOHN BRIGGS, M.A., F.Z.S. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. 

CONTENTS. Historical Sketch Sounds and Symbols Outlines 
of Accidence and Syntax Common Errors Analysis Parsing 
The Word, the Sentence, the Paragraph Punctuation Rules for 
Composition Simple Narrative Compound Narrative Descriptive 
Composition The Abstract Theme The Essay Paraphrasing 
Precis- Writing Letter- Writing and Proof-Reading Index. 

" The matter is clearly arranged, concisely and intelligently put, and marked by 
accurate scholarship and common sense." Guardian. 

English Literature, The Tutorial History of. By A. J. WYATT, 
M.A. Second Edition. 2s. 6d. 

"This is undoubtedly the best school history of literature that has yet come 
under our notice." Guardian. 

"The scheme of the book is clear, proportional, and scientific." Academy. 
" A sound and scholarly work." St. James' Gazette. 

English Literature, The Intermediate Text-Book of. By W. H. 
Low, M.A., and A. J. WYATT, M.A. 6s. 6d. 

" Really judicious in the selection of the details given." Saturday Review. 

"Well-informed and clearly written." Journal of Education. 

" The historical part is concise and clear, but the criticism is even more valuable, 
and a number of illustrative extracts contribute a most useful feature to the 
volume." School World. 

An Anthology of English Verse. With Introduction and Glossary. 
By A. J. WYATT, M.A., and S. E. GOGGIN, M.A. 2s. 

For use in Training Colleges and Secondary Schools. The ex- 
tracts have been selected as representative of English verse from 
Wyatt to the present time (exclusive of drama). 

" We look upon this collection as one of the best of its kind." Teachers' Aid. 

Precis- Writing, A Text-Book of. By T. C. JACKSON, B.A., LL.B., 
and JOHN BRIGGS, M.A., F.Z.S. 2s. 6d. 

In writing this text-book, the authors have aimed at increasing 
the educational value of Precis-Writing by giving a more sys- 
tematic and a less technical treatment to the subject than is usual. 

"Admirably clear and businesslike." Guardian. 

" Thoroughly practical, and on right lines educationally." School World. 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 11 



Ethics, Manual of. By J. S. MACKENZIE, Litt.D., M.A., formerly 

Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. 6s. Gel. 

" In writing this book Mr. Mackenzie has produced an earnest and striking con- 
tribution to tine ethical literature of the time." Mind. 

Logic, A Manual of. By J. WELTON, M.A. , Professor of Education 
in the University of Leeds. 2 vols. Vol. T. , 8s. Gd. ; Vol. II. , 
6s. 6d. 

Vol. I. contains the whole of Deductive Logic, except Fallacies, 
which are treated, with Inductive Fallacies, in Vol. II. 

" A clear and compendious summary of the views of various thinkers on important 
and doubtful points." Journal of Education. 

Psychology, The Groundwork of. By G. F. STOUT, M.A., LL.D., 

Fellow of the British Academy, Professor of Logic and Meta- 
physics in the University of St. Andrews. 4s. 6cl. 
" All students of philosophy, both beginners and those who would describe them- 
selves as 'advanced,' will do well to 'read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest' this 
book." Oxford Magazine. 

Psychology, A Manual of. By G. F. STOUT, M.A., LL.D. 8s. 6d. 

"There is a refreshing absence of sketchiness about the book, and a clear desire 
manifested to help the student in the subject." Saturday Review. 

flbobent Ibieton? anb Constitution. 

The Tutorial History of England. (To 1901.) By C. S. 
FEAEENSIDE, M.A. 4s. 6d. 

" An excellent text-book for the upper forms of a school." Journal of Education. 

Matriculation Modern History. Being the History of England 

1485*1901, with some reference to the Contemporary History of 

Europe and Colonial Developments. By C. S. FEARENSIDE, 

M.A. 3s. 6d. 

' ' A work that gives evidence of scholarship and clever adaptability to a special 

purpose. " Guardian. 

Groundwork of English History. By M. E. CARTER. 2s. 

Contains the salient facts of English Histoiy. 

European History, Main Landmarks of. By F. N. DIXON, B.A. 

2s. 

"A capable sketch in which historical movements are indicated accurately and 
with vigour." Guardian. 

Citizenship, The Elements of the Duties and Rights of. By W. D. 

ASTON, B.A., LL.B. Third Edition. IB. Gd. 
Government of the United Kingdom. By A. E. HOGAN, LL.D. 2s. 6d. 

CONTENTS. Introduction Legislature Executive Judicial 
System Local Government Imperial Government. 



12 THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



Text-Book of Geography. By G. C. FRY, M.Sc., F.I.C., Science 
Master at West Buckland, North Devon. 4s. 6d. 

This book is intended for use in the upper forms of schools and by 
candidates for London University Matriculation, the Oxford and 
Cambridge Locals, and other Examinations of similar standard. 

It deals with both General and Regional Geography. Under the 
former heading are treated the movement, form, and surface of the 
earth, the circulation of air and water, and map-reading. In 
Regional Geography the natural features are first dealt with and 
then the political facts that are the outcome of these features. 



IRoman anb (Breefc 

The Tutorial History of Rome. (To 14 A.D.) By A. H. ALLCROFT, 
M.A., and W. F. MASOM, M.A. With Maps. Third Edition, 
Revised and in part Rewritten. 3s. 6d. 
" It is well and clearly written." Saturday Review. 

"A distinctly good book, full, clear, and accurate. The narrative is throughout 
lucid and intelligible ; there are no wasted words and no obscurities, and the 
authors have taken obvious pains to bring their facts up to date." Guardian. 

The Tutorial History of Greece. (To 323 B.C.) By Prof. W. J. 

WOODHOUSE, M.A. 4s. 6d. 

"Prof. Woodhouse is exceptionally well qualified to write a history of Greece, 
and he has done it well. " School World. 

A Longer History of Rome. By A. H. ALLCROFT, M.A., and 
others (each volume containing an account of the Literature of 
the Period) 

890202 B.C. 3s. 6d. 7831 B.C. 3s. 6d. 

202133 B.C. 3s. 6d. 44 B.C. 138 A.D. 3s. 6d. 

133 78 B.C. 3s. 6d. 

" Written in a clear and direct style. Its authors show a thorough acquaintance 
with their authorities, and have also used the works of modern historians to good 
effect." Journal of Education. 

A Longer History of Greece. By A. H. ALLCROFT, M.A. 
(each volume containing an account of the Literature of the 
Period) 

To 495 B.C. 3s. 6d. 404 362 B.C. 3s. 6d. 

495431 B.C 3s. 6d. 362323 B.C. 3s. 6d. 

440 404B.C 3s. 6d. Sicily, 491 289 B.C. 3s. 6d. 
"The authors have apparently spared no pains to make their work at once com- 
prehensive and readable." Schoolmaster. 



THE UNIVERSITY- TUTORIAL SERIES. 13 



Xatin anb (Breeft. 

GRAMMARS AND READERS. 
Junior Latin Course. By B. J. HAYES, M. A. 2s. 6d. 

"A good practical guide. The principles are sound, and the rules are clearly 
stated. " Educational Times. 

The Tutorial Latin Grammar. By B. J. HAYES, M.A., and W. F. 

MASOM, M.A. Fourth Edition. 3s. 6d. 
" Accurate and full without being overloaded with detail." Schoolmaster. 

The Tutorial Latin Grammar, Exercises and Test Questions on. 
By F. RICHARDSON, B.A., and A. HAZEL, LL.D. Is. Gd. 

Latin Composition. With copious Exercises and easy continuous 
Passages. By A.. H. ALLCROFT, M.A., and J. H. HAYDON, 
M.A. Sixth Edition, Enlarged. 2s. 6d. 

" Simplicity of statement and arrangement, apt examples illustrating each rule, 
exceptions to these adroitly stated just at the proper place and time, are among some 
of the striking characteristics of this excellent book." Schoolmaster. 

Junior Latin Reader. By E. J. G. FORSE, M.A. Is. 6d. 

Matriculation Selections from Latin Authors. With Introduction 
(History and Antiquities), Notes, and Vocabulary. By A. F. 
WATT, M.A., and B. J. HAYES, M.A. 2s. 6d. 
Provides practice in reading Latin in preparation for Examina- 
tions for which no classics are prescribed. 

" It is quite an interesting selection, and well done." School World. 
" The selection is a good one, and the notes are brief and to the purpose." 
Journal of Education. 

Matriculation Latin Construing Book. By A. F. WATT, M. A. , and 

B. J. HAYES, M.A. 2s. 

A guide to the construing of the Latin period and its translation 
into English. 

" One of the most useful text-books of this very practical Tutorial Series." School 
Guardian. 

The Tutorial Latin Reader. With VOCABULARY. 2s. 6d. 

" A soundly practical work." Guardian. 

Advanced Latin Unseens. Being a Higher Latin Reader. Edited 
by H. J. MAIDMENT, M.A., and T. R. MILLS, M.A. 3s. 6d. 

"Contains some good passages, which have been selected from a wider field than 
that previously explored by similar manuals." Cambridge Review. 

The Tutorial Latin Dictionary. By F. G. PLAISTOWE, M.A., late 

Fellow of Queens' College, Cambridge. 6s. 6d. 
" A sound school dictionary." Speaker. 

Advanced Greek Unseens. Second Edition, Enlarged. 3s. 6d. 

The Tutorial Greek Reader. With VOCABULARIES. By A. WAUGH 
YOUNG, M.A. Second Edition, Enlarged. 2s. 6d. 



14 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



BDftfons of Xatfn anD (Breefc Classics* 

The Text is in all cases accompanied by Introduction and Notes; books 
marked (*) contain also an alphabetical Lexicon. 

The Vocabularies, etc., are in order of the text and are preceded by Test Papers. 



Acts of Apostles. 


Text. 


Voc. 
1/0 


DEMOSTHENES 


Text. 


Voo. 


AESCHYLUS 






Androtion. 


4/6 


... 


Eumenides. 
Persae. 


3/6 

3/6 


1/0 


EURIPIDES 






Prometheus Vinctus. 


2/6 


i/b 


Alcestis. 


1/6 


1/0 


Septeni contra Thebas. 


3/6 


1/0 


Andromache. 
Bacchae. 


3/6 

3/6 


i/b 


ARISTOPHANES 






Hecuba. 


3/6 




Ranae. 
CAESAR 


3/6 




Hippolytus. 
Iphigenia in Tauris. 
Medea. 


3/6 
3/6 

3/6 


i/o 

1/0 


Civil War, Book 1. 


1/6 


... 








Gallic War, Books 1-7. 






HERODOTUS 






(each) 
Gallic War, Book 1, 
Ch. 1 to 29. 
The Invasion of Britain. 
Gallic War, Book 7, Ch. 


1/6 

1/6 

1/6 


1/0 
1/0 


Book 3. 
Book 4, Ch. 1-144. 
Book 6. 
Book 8. 


4/6 
4/6 
2/6 
3/6 


1/0 
1/0 
1/0 


1 to 68. 


1/6 












i/U 


... 


HOMER 






CICERO 






Iliad, Book 6. 




1/0 


Ad Atticum, Book 4. 


3/6 




Iliad, Book 24. 


3/6 




De Amicitia. 


*l/6 


i/b 


Odyssey, Books 9, 10. 


2/6 


... 


De Finibus, Book 1. 


2/6 




Odyssey, Books 11, 12. 


2/6 




De Finibus, Book 2. 


3/6 




Odyssey, Books 13, 14. 


2/6 




De Officiis, Book 3. 


3/6 


i/b 


Odyssey, Book 17. 


1/6 


i/b 


De Senectute. 


*l/6 


1/0 








In Catilinam I., III. 






HORACE 






(each) 
In Catilinam I. -IV. 
Philippic II. 
Pro Archia 
Pro Balbo. 
Pro Cluentio. 
Pro Lege Manilla. 
Pro Marcello. 
Pro Milone. 
Pro Plancio. 


1/6 

2/6 
2/6 
1/6 

3/6 

2/6 
1/6 
3/6 
3/6 


1/0 

i/b 

1/0 
1/0 
1/0 
1/0 
1/0 
1/0. 
1/0 


Epistles (including Ars 
Poetica). 4/6 
Epistles (excluding Ars 
Poetica). 
Epodes. 1/6 
Odes, Books 1-4. *3/6 
Separately, each Book 
(*3, 4). 1/6 
Satires. 4/6 


1/0 

1/0 
I/O 


CURTIUS 






ISOCRATES 






Book 9, Ch. 6-end. 


1/6 


... 


De Bigis. 


2/6 


... 



THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



15 



BDtttoittJ of Xatin 


anD (3rceh Classics continued. 


Text. 


Voo. 




Text. 


Voc. 


JUVENAL. 






SALLUST 






Satires 1, 3, 4. 


3/6 




Catiline. 


1/6 


1/0 


Satires 8, 10, 13. 


2/6 










Satires 11, 13, 14. 


3/6 


... 


SOPHOCLES 






LlVY 






Ajax. 


3/6 


1/0 


Book 1. 


2/6 


1/0 


Antigone. 


2/6. 


1 


Books 3, 6, 9. (each) 


36 


1/0 


Electra. 


3/6 


1/0 


Book 5. 
Book 21. 
Book 21, Ch. 1-30. 


2/6 
2/6 
1/6 


1/0 

1/6 


TACITUS 
Agricola. 


2/6 


1/0 


Book 22. 


2/6 


1/6 


Annals, Book 1. 
Annals, Book 2. 


2/6 

2/6 


1/0 


LUCIAN 






Gcrmania. 


2/6 


1/0 


Charon and Piscator. 


3/6 


1/0 


Histories, Books 1, 3. 






LYSIAS 






(each) 


3/6 


1/0 


Eratosthenes. 


2/6 


... 


TERENCE 






Eratosthenes and 
Agoratus. 




1/0 


Adelphi. 


3/6 


... 


NEPOS 






THUCYDIDES 






Hannibal, Cato, Atticus. 


1/0 


... 


Book 7. 


3/6 


... 


OVID 






VERGIL 






Fasti, Books 3, 4. 


2/6 


1/0 


Aeneid, Books 1-8. (each) *l/6 


1/0 


Fasti, Books 5, 6. 


3/6 


1/0 


Book 9. 


*l/6 




Heroides, 1,2,3,5, 7, 12. .'.. 


1/6 


Books 9, 10. 




i/b 


Heroides, 1, 5, 12. 


1/6 




Book 10. 


*l/6 




Metamorphoses, Book 1, 






Book 11. 


*l/6 


1/0 


lines 1-150; Book 3, 






Book 12. 


16 




lines 1-130; Book 5, 






Eclogues. 


3/6 


1/0 


lines 385-550. (each) 


1/6 




Georgics, Books 1 and 2. 


3/6 


1/0 


Book 11. 


1/6 


i/b 


Georgics, Books 1 and 4. 


3/6 


1/0 


Book 11, lines 410-748. 


1/6 




Georgics, Book 4. 






Books 13, 14. (each) 


1/6 


1/0 


(separately) 


1/6 




Tristia, Books 1,3. (each) 


1/6 


1/0 


XENOPHON 






PLATO 






Anabasis, Book 1. 


1/6 


1/0 


Apology. 


3/6 


1/0 


Anabasis, Book 4. 


1/6 




Crito. 
Euthyphro and Mene- 


2/6 


1/0 


Cyropaedeia, Book 1. 
Cyropaedeia, Book 5. 


1/6 


1/0 
1/0 


xenus. 


4/6 


1/0 


Hellenica, Books 3, 4. 






Ion. 


3/6 


1/0 


(each) 


1/6 




Laches. 


3/6 


1/0 


Memorabilia, Book 1. 


3/6 


i/b 


Phaedo. 


3/6 




Oeconomicus. 


4/6 


1/0 



A detailed catalogue of the above can be obtained on application. 



16 THE UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES. 



TBnfver$it\> tutorial Series, 



General Editor : WM. BRIGGS, LL.D., D.C.L., M.A., B'.Sc., 

Principal of University Correspondence College. 



The object of the UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL SERIES is to provide 
candidates for examinations and learners generally with text-books 
which shall convey in the simplest form sound instruction in accord- 
ance with the latest results of scholarship and scientific research. 
Important points are fully and clearly treated, and care has been 
taken not to introduce details which are likely to perplex the be- 
ginner. 

The Publisher will be happy to entertain applications from 
Teachers for Specimen Copies of books mentioned in this List. 



SOME PRESS OPINIONS, 

"This series is successful in hitting its mark and siipplying much help to 
students in places where a guiding hand is sorely needed." Journal of Education. 

" Many editors of more pretentious books might study the methods of the ' Uni- 
versity Tutorial Series' with profit." Guardian. 

"The 'University Tutorial Series' is favourably known for its practical and 
workmanlike methods. " Public Schools Year Book. 

" The series is eminently successful." Spectator. 

"The classical texts in this series are edited by men who are thoroughly masters 
of their craft." Saturday Review. 

"The competent manner in which the volumes of this series are edited is now 
well known and generally recognised." Educational Times. 

/This useful series of text-books." Nature. 

"Any books published in this series are admirably adapted for the needs of the 
large class of students for whom they are intended." Cambridge Review. 

"Clearness in statement and orderliness in arrangement characterise the publica- 
tions of the University Tutorial Press." Oxford Magazine. 

"All books which issue from the 'University Tutorial Press' are both scholarly 
and practical." Westminster Review. 

"The merit of this series of publications consists in the workmanlike execution 
of an orderly practical plan." School Government Chronicle. 

"The books of the 'University Tutorial Series' have deservedly won a high 
reputation for sound scholarship, clear and orderly arrangement and presentation, 
and practical and up-to-date methods." Boukmaii. 

"The more we see of these excellent manuals the more highly do we think of 
them. " Schoolmaster. 

" Such text-books are immeasiirably superior to the heavy tomes, overburdened 
with extraneous matter, with which boys of a previous generation were familiar." 
School Guardian. 






4 
1 






B 







I 



