TX 7iq |fS°''"*"'^"'''®''*'*V'-lbrary 
'"'^MiViim.'l.'^i;,^^''"''^ cooking :with a number 




3 1924 000 681 282 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 



James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY 




The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000681282 



Nourisnin^ 
DisKes 



C One little two ounce 
jap of Lemoo contains the 
essence of about five 
pounds of butcher's beef — 
it will make sixteen break- 
fast cups of most delicious, 
strengthening bouillon. 



C It improves the flavour, 
enriches the nutriment 
and increases the digesti- 
bility of all meats and 
gravias — it quickly trans- 
forms cold sundries into 
dainty and appetising 
dishes. 



AV/.V.V;; 



C Lemco is the most con- 
centrated form of beef 
known-^tiMt is why it 
goes ftmner than any 
other beef essence, and 
that is why it is by far 
the most economical. 



C Lemco is used by the 
leading chefs of the world. 
Francatelli — chef to the 
late Queen Victoria — ex- 
tolled Lemco as the finest 
stock. The purity of every 
ounce is guaranteed. 




Anotlier User writes : 



Mrs.- 



A Lady writes ; — j 

" I always keep Lemoo i:::;;;:=:';;:';'''tv'.V"i " '^'^- finds Lemco 

in the house, I can A-JjiV'**""" '''''-iii'y better than anything of 

make such tasty dishes ' '" ""' the kind — most eco- 

with the help of it — it is nomioal — and a great 

so nourishing, too." relish for invalids." 



Salt that IS Salt. 

That is the best description of 

TAB LOS 

STABLE SALT. 




AN EXCELLENT COOKING 
SALT, BEING ENTIRELY FREE 
FROM ORGANIC ADMIXTURE 



l^W 



TABLOS Salt is a pure domestic salt in which 
all the natural properties of salt (except 
its tendency to "cake") are preserved. 
TABLOS Salt is purely and simply salt 
— not a patent food or a mixture of 
salt and farinaceous matter, but simply salt. 
TABLOS is intensely salt, and therefore the most 
economical to use. TABLOS is a granular and 
not a crushed salt, and therefore does not contain 
any harsh particles. TABLOS is always ready 
(or use and m good condition. Sold by most 
grocers and dealers, in artistic tins 
containing about U lbs. nett — price 5d. 
Send card for name of nearest agent. 



TABLOS Ltd., 17, Temple Chambers, London, E-C. 



FRENCH HOUSEHOLD COOKING 



The Public — Cooking Classes- 
Public Institutions, etc., should all 

KEEP A GOOD SUPPLY 

OF 

FALK'S 

Table 

SALT 



It has the Largest Sale in the World and is 
the Best Salt for all purposes. 



Sold by All Grocers in cases of 50 packets and singly 
in halfpenny and penny packets. 



FRENCH 
HOUSEHOLD COOKING 

WITH A NUMBER OF RECIPES FROM 
THE BEST PARIS CHEFS 

SIMPLE AND INEXPENSIVE 

BY 

AN ENGLISHWOMAN IN PARIS 

(MRS. FRANCES KEYZER) 



LONDON : PUBLISHED AT THE OFFICES 
OF 'COUNTRY LIFE,' Ltd. TAVISTOCK 
STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C, y BY 
GEORGE NEWNES, Ltd. SOUTHAMPTON 
STREET, STRAND, W.C. NEW YORK : 
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



Nothing can take the 
place of a pure and 
reliable 



BAKING POWDER 



BORWIGK'S 





is absolutely pure, and can 
be relied on for making the 
lightest Cakes, Scones, Tea 
Cakes, Pastry, Puddings, etc. 



Six Gold Medals 
Awarded. 



Successful Home BaKin^ made Easy 

By using 



THE FAMOUS 



44 



BEE** YEAST 



Good reaolts are auured. Bread and Cakes made with tUs Yeast have * delidoB* BiTonr 
and are always sweet, fresh and wholesome. 

n yon have any difficnlty in procuring the " BEE " Yeast, write the Sole Mannfactorert — 

JAMES CALDER & Co., Ltd., Bo*ness, N.B. 

Who will send you name of nearest agent. 
TRY THIS RECIPE: 

HOUSEHOLD BREAD. 

Ingredients: 3Ib. Flour, ioz. Salt, 2oz. ** Bee " Yeast, 

l^-pts. lukewarm water, ]az. Sugar. 

Method. — Beat the Yeast and sugar to a cream : put the flour and salt into a basin and make > well 
in the centre ; add a little of the water to the creamed Yeast and poui into basin with the water, makina a 
0oh doush ; siwinlde the doueh with flour and allow to stand, covered with a clean cloth, in a warm place fw 
one hour ; turn out oa to a floured board and knead well ; divide the doueh into three (tarts, and ueadina 
each part thoroughly, make into a long-shaped loaf ; place the loaves on a greased bakiog tin and allow to 
stand in a warm place for 1 minutes ; brush over with egg, and cut on the top with a knife to allow loavas to 
rise ; bake in a hot oven for §-hour, and then mate slowly for another ^hour ; loaves should be brown and 
crusty. 



li 



CONTENTS 



INTRODUCTION 



FACE 



The Secret of Good Cooking. Utensils — 
Cleanliness — Good Butter — Fresh In- 
gredients I 

CHAPTER I 
Hors-d'ceuvre 5 

CHAPTER II 
Soups and Purees 8 

CHAPTER III 
Fish 21 

CHAPTER IV 
RagoGts 27 

CHAPTER V 
Entries— Hot and Cold — comprising SouFPLfo 35 

CHAPTER VI 

Roasts — Beef, Veal, Mutton, Poultry, Game . 54 

V 



French Household Cooking 

CHAPTER VII 

PAGE 

Sauces 55 

CHAPTER VIII 
Salads 63 

CHAPTER IX 
Vegetables 68 

CHAPTER X 
Potatoes — Various Ways of preparing . . 79 

CHAPTER XI 
Omelettes and Eggs generally ... 84 

CHAPTER XII 
Macaroni — Rice 97 

CHAPTER XIII 
Sweet Dishes — Ices 103 

CHAPTER XIV 
How to make Coffee . . . . . 118 

CHAPTER XV 
Menus, with Recipes from the best Paris Chefs i 2 1 



VI 



INTRODUCTION 

"Animals feed, men eat) but only intelligent men know what 
to eat." — Brillat-Savarin. 

This Cookery Book is not meant to take the place 
of the hundred and more thick volumes that have been 
compiled within the last fifty years. It neither pre- 
tends to explain the various terms in use among 
the chefs of the haute cuisine, nor to indicate the 
innumerable ways of preparing fish, flesh, or fowl 
that every professed cook knows as well or better 
than most writers on the subject It is intended to 
give a few suggestions to women of the world 
who appreciate the advantages of well -prepared 
food, and know the value that such food has in 
married life. 

A series of well-chosen, well-cooked dinners, not 
necessarily large ones, will attract a man and keep 
him at home— interested and amiable — more than 
the ordinary woman supposes. In the interests of 
home life a well-cooked dinner is of more importance 
than a well-dressed wife. A man will admire a 
pretty dress, but in time he will get used to the 

I B 



French Household Cooking 

unsatisfactory result of clothes ; he never gets tired 
of good food, dressed with care and taste. 

This book is therefore not intended as a complete 
Cours de Cuisine, but as an aid to women, and an 
indication of the simple methods employed in French 
homes, where the daily meals are always well pre- 
pared, at the humblest as at the most luxurious 
tables. 

The elementary rules of good cooking are cleanli- 
ness, fresh ingredients, and good butter. The quality 
of the butter used in the preparing of eggs, vegetables, 
fish, meat, and sauces is of the greatest importance. 
In fact, in this matter alone is the secret of the 
different flavour of a plain dish cooked at the good 
restaurant from the same cooked at the " wine shop 
at the corner." A dish of French beans, small and 
tender, will be prepared in the same manner by the 
proprietor of the shop as by the chef at the 
restaurant ; but one will use " kitchen " butter, the 
other will employ the finest to be procured. At 
one of the famous cuisines butter is purchased at 
the rate of 3 s. 6d. the pound. This I mention to 
show the importance chefs attach to quality. 

In French household cooking, good fresh butter 
is always used. 

Another important factor is the utensil. Sauce- 
pans and frying-pans play a great part in the cook- 
ing of food. They must be scrupulously clean, and 
as the ordinary cook is more or less careless in this 

a 



Introduction 

respect, the utensils should be either in common red 
earthenware or in china. In the majority of kitchens 
where hygiene is studied under the mistress's super- 
vision, copper saucepans line the walls, but are rarely 
used. The daily food is prepared in china. With 
half-a-dozen china saucepans of all sizes, costing on 
the average tenpence apiece, a couple of frying-pans, 
an earthenware pot for soup, a smaller one for 
vegetables, a "cocotte" (a cast-iron stew-pan and 
cover), and a fish-kettle, the average household is 
ready for all emergencies. The outlay for china 
and earthenware is so small, that if a saucepan occa- 
sionally breaks, it can be replaced for a few pence. 

In this volume recipes will be given for dishes 
prepared in French households. They comprise the 
ordinary, inexpensive preparations of fresh food, with 
such ingredients as are at the command of moderate 
incomes. The object, in fact, is to show the simplicity 
and excellence of the French methods of dealing 
with articles of food, retaining their nutritive pro- 
perties, and making them palatable and digestible as 
well as presentable. 

The decoration of dishes from a purely decorative 
point of view is not practised here ; every artichoke, 
carrot, or turnip that surrounds a piece of meat is 
not only cut into an appetising shape, but is flavoured 
in an appetising manner. The French are not 
satisfied with something pleasing to the eye ; it must 
also be pleasing to the taste. 

3 



French Household Cooking 

A French philosopher and observer of men and 
women in the highest classes of Society has made a 
study of the effects of good living upon the fair sex. 
" Succulent, delicate, and carefully prepared food has 
been proved by a series of minute studies to delay 
the exterior signs of age. It gives brilliance to the 
eyes, freshness to the skin, strength to the muscles, 
and as it is acknowledged that the depression of the 
muscles causes wrinkles, it can safely be said that all 
women who know what to eat are comparatively 
ten years younger than those who ignore this 
science." 

With this reasoning, joined to the pleasure of 
contenting the bread-winner, there is no excuse for 
women to despise the material question of food. 
A youthful-looking wife and a well-cooked dinner 
will make a happy home. 

F. K. 



CHAPTER I 

hors-d'ceuvre 

The hors-d'oeuvre are little light dishes that have 
the double advantage of decorating a luncheon table 
and stimulating the appetite. A good assortment 
of hors-d'oeuvre is a pleasant introduction to a meal. 
While the guests are partaking of one and another 
of these cold dishes there is ample time to prepare 
the first warm dish, which is better appreciated 
after the expectant prelude. 

For a simple luncheon two or three hors-d'oeuvre 
suffice ; but when there are three or four courses 
the hors-d'oeuvre are more numerous. 

They comprise : — 

Radishes. — These are thrown into a basin full of 
water, well washed, and all the leaves removed but 
one or two of the small green ones. They are placed 
in a small oblong dish arranged with the little green 
leaves forming the border. 

Butter. — Arranged in a separate dish in little 
balls, or any fancy design, ornamented with a spray 
of parsley. 

Anchovies. — Scraped, washed, and filleted, served 
S 



French Household Cooking 

with slices of hard eggs, covered with chopped 
parsley. 

Sardines. — Tunnyfish. 

Eggs in Jelly. JExplained in Chapter XI. 

Eggs m Mayonnaise.] 

Peeled Shrimps in Mayonnaise. 

Slices of Bologna or Spiced Sausage. 

Slices of Smoked Salmon. 

Caviare on Toast, served with lemon. 

Olives. — French or Spanish are the most favoured. 

Epicures have discovered that one or two uncon- 
ventional hors-d'oeuvre give the guest a foretaste 
of the nature of the meal that is to follow. It is 
therefore as necessary to concoct something unusual 
in the hors-d'oeuvre as to vary the table decorations. 
Here are a couple of "preludes," as we will call 
them, that are generally much appreciated. 

Shredded Celeriac 

The root is scraped, washed, and cut into the 
thinnest of strips, like straws, about an inch long, 
and covered with a mayonnaise into which a large 
spoonful of mustard has been incorporated. The 
strips are mixed with the mayonnaise, with the help 
of a spoon and fork, until every particle is covered 
with the thick sauce. 

Potatoes and Shrimps 

The smallest potatoes are selected for this hors- 
d'oeuvre, as when cut into small rounds they make 
a prettier dish than the larger potato. 

6 



Hors-d'CEuvre 

Boil the necessary quantity in their skins. 
When cooked, peel them, and cut them into little 
round slices the thickness of a key-ring. Let them 
cool in a little oil and vinegar. Peel a good number 
of shrimps, almost as many as there are slices of 
potato ; remove the potatoes from the oil and 
vinegar, throw them with the shrimps into a small 
dish, and mix well with the mayonnaise, which must 
be highly seasoned with salt and pepper. 



CHAPTER II 

SOUPS AND PURfiES 

In France the national soups are the pot -au- feu 
or clear soup made from beef, and vegetable soups 
made without any meat or meat stock whatever. 
There are, of course, a number of variants of the 
meat soup, as far as the thickening properties 
are concerned, such as Italian paste, tapioca, etc. ; 
but the fundamental meat soup is the clear bouillon 
that is so little understood outside France. 

Pot-au-feu (Clear Meat Soup) 

Every French kitchen, from the poorest to the 
richest, contains a large earthenware pot with a 
cover, for the making of the indispensable pot-au-feu. 
In some households the meat from which the soup 
is made is eaten in the kitchen, in others it forms 
part of the daily menu. There can be no rules 
where taste plays the all-important peirt Some 
people have not considered they have dined unless 
a piece of boiled beef follows the soup ; others never 
eat beef on any occasion, boiled or otherwise. 

8 



Soups and Purees 

For the family pot-au-feu, which consists of clear 
soup, followed by the beef and vegetables cooked 
therein, the juiciest and most serviceable piece of 
meat for making good soup where the beef can be 
eaten and enjoyed is the " paleron " or shoulder of 
beef. It is customary to make sufficient soup 
for two repasts. The pot is filled with cold water, 
a handful of " kitchen '' salt thrown in, and about 
three or four pounds of beef (according to the 
number of people to eat it). The pot is placed on a 
quick fire, and when the water boils it is immediately 
skimmed. The skimming process may take from 
ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, but it is 
indispensable for the clearness of the soup. When 
this operation is effected the soup must no longer 
boil quickly, but just simmer gently on the corner of 
the stove, or on a gas fire at its lowest lighting 
power, for five or six hours. Two or three carrots, 
turnips, and leeks are added, and no more attention 
is given to the pot-au-feu (except to see it has not 
ceased simmering) until about half an hour before 
serving, when, if convenient, the giblets of a fowl are 
washed and added, giving the soup a more delicate 
flavour, and improving the bouillon materially. 

The important moment of removing the fat 
from the surface of the soup has now arrived, and 
this is effected with great care. A sufficient quantity 
of soup is then ladled into a saucepan, allowed to 
boil, coloured slightly with a few drops of the 
ordinary colouring matter or a little burnt sugar, 
and thickened with tapioca or vermicelli ; or simply 
poured into the soup tureen over round slices of 
bread fried in butter. 



French Household Cooking 

The meat and vegetables are taken from the large 
pot and served up, the meat being in the centre of 
the dish ; the carrots, turnips, and leeks around it, 
without any gravy or water. 

The remainder of the soup is kept for the next 
day ; and the beef — if there should be any — is 
warmed in the soup, and served, cut into rather thick 
slices, covered with a tomato or piquante sauce. 

The muddy nature of the ordinary English 
cooked soup has two causes : the first, that it is not 
sufficiently skimmed ; the second, that it boils too 
quickly. If these simple suggestions are attended 
to, there is no reason why the most inexperienced 
cook should not make a clear soup or bouillon. 

Bouillon anx oeufs poch^s (Clear Soup with 
Poached Eggs) 

When the fat has been removed from the soup, 
the necessary quantity for a large or small family is 
boiled in a saucepan, and coloured, salted, and 
peppered to taste. In the meanwhile an egg for 
each person is poached and placed in the soup 
tureen, and the hot soup poured carefully over them. 
When serving, one egg is ladled into each plate. 

Potage Parmentier (Potato Soup) 

This very simple family soup is excellent if 
prepared carefully, and has the advantage of being 
both inexpensive and quickly made. The ingredients 
are the white portion of two or three leeks, according 
to the size ; three or four potatoes ; a little chervil ; 

10 



Soups and Puries 

butter; a cup of boiled milk, or half a cupful of 
cream ; and a few cubes of fried bread. The leeks 
must be cut down the centre to facilitate the cleansing 
of this somewhat sandy vegetable, and thrown into 
a basin of cold water. The potatoes are peeled. 
A saucepan is set on the fire with a small piece of 
butter in it about the size of a walnut ; the leeks are 
cut into pieces and thrown into the saucepan, and 
allowed to cook uncovered on a slow fire for about 
seven or eight minutes. Then a little over a quart 
of water is added, with salt to taste, and the 
potatoes. In about twenty minutes leeks and potatoes 
will be cooked ; they are then placed in a strainer, 
and pressed with a wooden pestle to reduce them 
to a purde ; the water from which they were taken is 
brought to the boil again and the pur^e poured back 
into it, the whole being constantly stirred with a 
wooden spoon. Then a handful of cubes of bread are 
browned in a frying-pan with a little butter, and are 
placed in the soup tureen, together with the milk or 
cream, a lump of butter about the size of a large egg, 
and a pinch of chervil leaves without a particle of 
stalk. The contents of the saucepan are now poured 
gently into the tureen, the wooden spoon is again 
brought into action, as the stirring process is always 
necessary when a hot liquid comes in contact with 
butter, salt and a little pepper are added, and the 
soup is ready. 

These quantities are given for five or six persons ; 
for a larger number it is only necessary to add more 
leeks, more potatoes, and more butter. The flavour 
will depend on the quality of the butter, the salt, and 
the pepper, and the delicacy of the soup upon the use 



French Household Cooking 

of milk or cream. Cream in this soup permits of 
it being called " parmentier " and being placed on a 
friendly menu ; without the cream it becomes the 
plain potato soup. A few pennyworths of cream 
make all the difference. 



Potagfe Argenteuil 

This soup takes its name from the water which 
constitutes its base — water in which the Argenteuil 
asparagus have been boiled. But asparagus from 
any other regions are equally good for making a 
savoury and nutritious soup. Any doctor will tell 
you that the vegetables we eat lose the greater part 
of their nourishment in the water ; therefore, in order 
to get the benefit of these nutritive properties, what 
can be more logical than to drink the water ; in other 
words, make soup of it. The asparagus are cooked 
in the ordinary way and served as a vegetable ; the 
water is poured into a large saucepan and boiled again. 
In the meanwhile a cupful of rice is washed, and a 
handful of sorrel leaves held under running water 
to cleanse them. A small piece of butter is placed 
in a saucepan with the sorrel, and stirred to keep it 
from " catching " ; the boiling water from the asparagus 
is poured into it, and the rice is added, and salted and 
peppered. In twenty minutes the rice is cooked. 
The yolk of an egg is beaten in the soup tureen, 
a lump of butter follows, the contents of the saucepan 
are stirred gradually into it, and the soup is ready. 



19 



Soups and Pur^s 

Potage Soissons 

This is another popular family soup, made with 
the water in which white beans have been cooked. 
A quart of these white beans are soaked over-night, 
and boiled in a sufficient quantity of water in the 
usual way, with a handful of salt ; they are served 
as a vegetable, and the water used for soup, which 
is made in the same manner as the Potage Argen- 
teuil with rice and sorrel. With a portion of the 
beans added, this soup is very nutritious. 

Potage Creme de Chou-fleur (Cauliflower pur^e) 

This is a delicious and delicate soup that can 
be served at any dinner-party. The ingredients for 
about a couple of quarts of soup, sufficient for eight 
or nine people, are a large white cauliflower, a 
quart of milk, eight tablespoonfuls of tapioca, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, the yolks of two eggs, 
and a small cup of cream, salt, and a pinch of white 
sugar. The cauliflowers must be selected firm and 
not too full blown, for when this vegetable is over- 
ripe the flavour is too strong. The cauliflower must 
be washed, and each flower broken or cut in order to 
cleanse it thoroughly, then placed in a saucepan in 
a quart of cold water with a handful of salt. The 
saucepan is covered until the water boils ; then 
uncovered until the cauliflower is quite cooked, 
within a quarter of an hour. The covering and 
uncovering of the saucepan is necessary in order to 
prevent the cauliflower from becoming yellow. It 

13 



French Household Cooking 

is then taken out of the water and passed through 
a hair sieve to obtain the purde. The water in 
which it has cooked is now put on the fire again, 
and when boiling the tapioca is poured into it like 
"rain," so that the grains do not stick together, 
brought to boiling-point again, and then removed to 
the side of the fire to simmer for about twenty 
minutes. In the meantime the milk is boiled, a pinch 
of sugar added, and then poured into the tapioca with 
the pur6e of cauliflower, turning constantly with a 
wooden spoon to prevent "catching." Now break 
the yolks of two eggs into the soup tureen, add the 
cream and beat them together ; add also the butter 
in small pieces, all in the soup tureen ; then slowly 
pour the contents of the saucepan, almost boiling, 
into the tureen, turning continually with a wooden 
spoon. It is essential to pour in a small quantity 
of the liquid at first, in order to avoid the too rapid 
cooking of the eggs ; if this is not given the re- 
quisite attention, the soup will not be smooth and 
velvety as it should be. This soup is served with 
a few peas boiled in salt water, or with little cubes 
of bread fried in butter, to " dress " it 

Potage Cresson (Water-Cress Soup) 

Wash two bunches of water -cress ; pluck the 
leaves from the thick stems and throw them into 
a saucepan of boiling water. After a minute re- 
move the cress with a strainer and chop it finely ; 
put a piece of butter into another saucepan and add 
the chopped cress ; turn it with a spoon in the 
butter on a slow fire for a few seconds, then add 

14 



Soups and Pur^s 

hot water sufficient to make the soup. When it 
boils, drop in as many tablespoon fuls of tapioca as 
there are guests ; salt and pepper. Beat the yolk 
of an egg in the soup tureen, add a lump of butter 
(and a small cup of double cream if convenient), and 
when the tapioca is cooked, slowly pour the contents 
of the saucepan into the tureen, stirring constantly 
in order to avoid curdling the egg. This soup can 
be made without cream, but is greatly improved if 
cream is added to the egg and butter. 

Potagfe Bisque (Crayfish Soup) 

Boil the dcrevisses (crayfish) in white wine and 
water, with salt, pepper, a few slices of onion, and 
the usual herbs tied together in the aromatic 
bouquet, known in culinary parlance as a bouquet 
garni. When cooked remove the tails, pound the 
bodies with some rice that has boiled in good stock, 
then pass through a hair sieve, and add stock and 
a little of the water in which the dcrevisses have 
boiled. Break the yolk of an egg in the soup 
tureen, beat it, and add a little thick cream and a 
piece of butter, pour the soup gently into it, turning 
constantly with a wooden spoon. Throw in the tails 
of the fish and serve. 

Potage Ecossais (the French for Scotch Broth) 

Cut into small pieces three or four carrots, 
turnips, leeks, and a head of celery. Put a piece 
of butter into the saucepan and add the vegetables. 
When they begin to colour add a sufficient quantity 

IS 



French Household Cooking 

of mutton broth or water ; salt and pepper. When 
boiling add a cupful of pearl barley. In this 
soup the flavour of the leeks and celery should 
predominate. 

Potage Gepminy 

Take a small handful of sorrel, and throw it into a 
saucepan with a little butter. In a few minutes it is 
cooked. In the meanwhile boil a small cupful of 
ground rice in sufficient water to make the soup. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs in a little cream in the 
soup tureen ; salt and pepper the rice and pour it 
slowly into the tureen. Add the sorrel just before 
serving. 

Potage Comtesse 

Make a pur6e of white beans, boiling the beans 
in water with salt and pepper, and passing them 
through a sieve. Beat the yolk of an egg and a 
little cream in the soup tureen, and add the pur6e 
of beans and the water in which the beans were 
cooked. 

Potage Alexandre 

Boil a pint of flageolets — green beans — with salt. 
In another saucepan place a lump of butter and add 
a good handful of sorrel. Pass the beans through 
a strainer into the saucepan containing the sorrel, 
and pour into it sufficient water or stock to make 
the soup. Beat the yolks of two eggs in the soup 

i6 



Soups and Purees 

tureen, with or without a cup of cream, and pour 
the contents of the saucepan into the tureen, gently 
mixing with a wooden spoon. 

Potage Sontay 

Boil a pint of lentils and a pint of white beans, 
pass them through a strainer into another saucepan 
in a pur6e. Add the water in which the beans and 
lentils have cooked, with salt and pepper. When 
boiling throw in a cupful of boiled rice, and more 
water if necessary. Put a lump of butter into the 
tureen and pour in the soup. 

Potage Albert 

Boil a pint of white beans and a pint of young 
scarlet runners, broken into small pieces (not cut). 
In the same saucepan add a large peeled potato and 
two tomatoes. When the potatoes and tomatoes are 
cooked, remove them and work them into a paste 
in a bowl, with two tablespoonfuls of good salad oil 
and a little basil if possible. When the amalgama- 
tion is complete pour it into the saucepan when the 
beans are cooked. Add salt and pepper, and serve 
in the soup tureen. 

Specially recommended. 

The beans that make the best soup are those 
that have a large pod and a long thick bean. They 
are broken into pieces, and both parts thrown into 
boiling water. The Albert soup is not a pur^e. 
Its feature is the combination of green and white 
beans ; the liquid should be a light red, occasioned 

17 c 



French Household Cooking 

by the addition of the pounded tomato and 
potato. 

Pup6e Duboys 

The gourmet who told me how this soup is 
prepared had tears in his eyes as he remembered 
how he had looked round to see if there were a 
second plateful after he had tasted the first spoonful ; 
and the tureen was empty. Be warned and have a 
large supply. 

Ingredients : 

One cup of white beans. 

One cup of lentils. 

One carrot. 

One potato. 

One teaspoonful of tapioca for each person. 

One handful of sorrel. 

Salt, pepper, butter. 

Steep the dried vegetables in water for a few 
hours — or more if possible. Put a saucepan on the 
fire full of cold water ; throw in the beans and 
lentils ; salt and pepper. Let them boil until tender. 
In the meanwhile wash and pluck the sorrel ; place 
a lump of butter in a stew-pan, and when melted 
throw in the sorrel. Slice the carrot and potato ; 
wash the tapioca and add the carrot and potato to 
the beans and lentils. When sufficiently cooked, add 
the sorrel that has been simmering in the butter in 
the stew-pan ; pass the contents of the saucepan 
through a colander to make a purde — taking care 
to have a recipient beneath it. Pour everything 
back into the saucepan ; boil again ; add a little 

i8 



Soups and Purees 

vinegar if the sorrel is not sharp enough ; salt and 
pepper to taste, and serve. 

Potage Napolitain (Tomato Soup) 

One pound of ripe tomatoes. 
Three large potatoes. 
One handful of sorrel. 

Wash the tomatoes and sorrel ; peel the potatoes. 
Boil all together in water slightly salted. Pass the 
vegetables through a fine colander into a bowl or 
basin ; put them again into the water in which they 
were cooked, with a lump of butter, a piece of sugar, 
and some salt. Fry some cubes of bread in butter, 
throw them into the soup tureen, and pour the soup 
over them, when it has boiled for a few minutes. 

Potagfe Milanais (Tomato Soup) 

One pound of ripe tomatoes are boiled in water 
with a handful of salt, passed through a colander 
with a wooden spoon to make them into a pur6e, 
and poured back again into the water. When the 
soup boils again, as many spoonfuls of tapioca or 
vermicelli are added as there are guests, with a little 
pepper. A lump of butter is put into the soup 
tureen and the hot soup poured over it Sufficient 
water is put into the saucepan to make the soup. 

Another Potato Soup 

Wash four leeks, cut them two or three times 
lengthways ; chop them into small pieces ; peel 

19 



French Household Cooking 

and wash three large potatoes, cut them also into 
small pieces. Put the leeks and potatoes into a 
saucepan full of cold water ; let it boil ; add a 
handful of salt. After the soup has boiled half an 
hour add six tablespoonfuls of rice. Boil again for 
an hour and a quarter. Just before serving add a 
lump of butter the size of an egg. This soup has 
a nutty flavour. 

Potage Saint-Germain (Pea Soup) 

Boil a quart of dried or fresh peas in a quart of 
water, with a handful of salt. (It is well known that 
dried vegetables are placed in cold water, and green 
vegetables in boiling water.) When cooked pass 
them through a sieve to make a pur^e, with another 
saucepan beneath to catch the soup. Throw the 
pur£e back again into the same water and let it boil 
once more. Then add salt and pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful of tapioca for each person. When the 
tapioca is cooked, place a lump 'of butter in the 
soup tureen and a small cupful of cream, and pour 
the contents of the saucepan slowly into it, stirring 
constantly with a wooden spoon. The appearance 
of the soup is improved if a handful of fresh green 
peas are boiled and thrown into the tureen at the 
last moment. 



so 



CHAPTER III 

FISH 

Fillets of Turbot or Plaice B^arnaise 

Remove the fillets from the bone of the fish, also 
the skin. Wash them, and dry on a clean cloth ; 
salt and flour each fillet, dip them into egg, then 
cover with bread-crumbs. Put a piece of butter 
into a stew-pan, and when the butter steams add the 
fillets, and brown on both sides. Serve on a long 
dish with a border of bdarnaise sauce, and a 
b6arnaise in a sauce-boat. (See Chapter on Sauces.) 

Matelotte a I'Ancienne (a Fish Stew) 

Cut a carp and an eel into small pieces. Colour 
them in butter on a very quick fire. Pour a little 
brandy into a stew-pan in which they are lying and 
set light to it. Then add a bottle of red wine (which 
can be bought in France for 4d.), a couple of carrots, 
four onions, and a bouquet of herbs (parsley, thyme, 
and bay). Boil for a quarter of an hour ; then 
remove the pieces into a dish. Put into a small sauce- 
pan a lump of butter and a tablespoonful of flour, 



French Household Cooking 

work theth well together when the butter melts, and 
pour in the contents of the saucepan where the fish 
has cooked. Pass this through a fine sieve into a 
clean saucepan, arrange the pieces in a pyramid, pour 
the sauce over them, and serve with triangular pieces 
of fried bread around the dish. 

Sole au Gratin (Sole) 

Choose a large sole, remove the skin, clean it 
well, so that none of the blood remains inside. If 
this is not carefully wiped with the cloth it gives a 
bitter taste to the fish. Place the sole in a dish that 
can stand the fire. Salt and pepper on both sides ; 
chop two or three shalots and a little parsley, and 
sprinkle over the sole ; add a lump of butter divided 
into small pieces, a glass of white wine, and a layer 
of bread-crumbs. Let it cook in the oven, and 
serve in the same dish. A large plaice may be 
prepared in the same manner. 

Filets de Soles Normande (Sole) 

Remove the fillets from the soles. Place them 
in cold water with the juice of a lemon. Boil the 
bones of the fish with a carrot, a couple of onions, 
and a bouquet of herbs. Put a lump of butter into 
a small saucepan, let it melt and add a tablespoonful 
of flour ; work one into the other, off the fire, with a 
wooden spoon ; moisten with the water which has 
been boiling with the bones and herbs, and let it 
boil and thicken for about ten minutes, stirring 
occasionally. In the meanwhile dry the fillets on 



Fish 

a cloth, salt and pepper them, wrap each piece in 
buttered paper, and cook them in the oven on a 
buttered dish. Serve the fillets on a long dish, with 
mussels and peeled shrimps. Add the yolks of two 
eggs and a small cup of cream to the sauce, and pour 
it over the fish. 

Filets de Sole a la Creme (Soles with Cream) 

The fillets are poached in the oven ; the bones are 
boiled as in the preceding recipe. A sauce is made 
with flour and butter and the fish-water. Cream 
is added according to the quantity of fillets. Then 
the fillets are placed in another dish (silver or 
china) ; the sauce is poured over them. A little 
grated gruyfere is sometimes added, and the dish is 
put into the oven for a few minutes, but not long 
enough to brown. 

Grondins au Blanc (Red Gurnet) 

This is a dish of fish that is served cold, and is 
appreciated in summer. Gurnet is not an expensive 
fish and is consequently little known to restaurant 
frequenters under its own name. A large red head 
and an elongated body are not attractive or conducive 
to long prices on a menu, but the humble gurnet 
is delicate eating, and finds its way into many a 
" timbale " when soles are not plentiful. In Paris a 
fish of moderate size costs a few halfpence, and a 
dish for six or eight people is not an extravagant 
item when it can be made from three or four 
gurnets. 

23 



French Household Cooking 

Select large fish in preference to the smaller ones, 
and three will make a presentable dish. 

Place a saucepan on the fire with cold water, salt 
in sufficient quantity to taste, pepper, a couple of 
carrots cut in slices, half-a-dozen onions and a bunch 
of thyme, bay, and parsley tied together. In the 
meantime wash and clean the gurnet and place them 
in the saucepan as soon as they are ready, and boil 
for half an hour. Remove them from the water 
and cut them into pieces about the length of a finger, 
taking away all bone and skin. Place these pieces 
on a round dish in pyramid form, covering the centre, 
of course, and mounting as high as the quantity of 
fish allows. The object is to make the dish as 
attractive as possible by raising it in the middle, 
placing one piece of fish across the other, and so on, 
until every particle is removed from the bone. 

Then make the sauce that is to cover the fish 
entirely. 

In a small saucepan place a piece of butter, a 
little larger than an egg. Let it melt a little and 
then add two tablespoonfuls of flour ; work them 
together with a wooden spoon ; adding little by 
little the water from the large saucepan in which the 
fish has cooked. It is advisable to strain the water 
before using it for the sauce, but in most households 
the cook simply ladles out the water from one sauce- 
pan into another, as she requires it, as the flour and 
butter thicken, taking care of course to leave the 
carrots and onions, etc. When there is sufficient 
sauce made, remove the saucepan from the fire, add 
the juice of two lemons, and the yolks of two eggs, 
which must be well mixed with the sauce while it is 

24 



Fish 

still warm, but not on the fire, so that the eggs do 
not curdle. The sauce must now be tasted to see 
if it requires more pepper and salt, the necessary 
quantity is added, and the sauce, which should be as 
thick as double cream and sufficiently sour, is now 
poured all over the fish, placed in a cool larder, and 
is ready to be served on the following day, the dish 
garnished with slices of lemon. 

Grondins au Citron (Red Gurnet) 

The fish is prepared as in the preceding recipe. 
The sauce is made with three eggs and two lemons, 
and the fish stock. The eggs are broken into a 
bowl and beaten for a few minutes until well mixed. 
Salt and pepper are added. The lemons are 
squeezed, strained and added to the eggs with 
about half a pint of the water in which the fish has 
cooked ; then poured into a jug and placed in a 
saucepan full of boiling water, to thicken as for a 
custard. When the sauce is as thick as cream it is 
ready. Bone the fish, and cut it into pieces ; throw 
the sauce over it and serve hot or cold. 

Moules Marinieres (Mussels) 

Mussels are rarely eaten in England, but as soon 
as a travelled Englishman arrives on the Continent 
he is certain to ask for "Moules Marinieres." 
Mussels are excellent food if they are caught on 
the rocks. 

Scrape the mussels, wash them in a large basin, 
then place them in a saucepan on the fire. After 

as 



French Household Cooking 

a few minutes they will open. Place the shell 
that contains the mussel into a dish. Prepare the 
following sauce. Put a piece of butter the size of 
an egg into a small saucepan. When melted add a 
tablespoonful of flour ; mix well together with a 
wooden spoon and moisten with a little milk and 
some of the water in which the mussels have opened. 
Add chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, and pour this 
sauce over the mussels in the dish. Or make the 
sauce in a large saucepan and let the mussels warm 
therein for a few moments before serving. 

Harengs, sauce moutarde (Herrings) 

Clean and wash some fresh herrings ; dry them 
with a cloth and cook them on the grill. Serve 
with the following sauce. In a small saucepan place 
a lump of butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, a dash 
of vinegar, and a tablespoonful of mustard, salt and 
pepper, and a little water. Mix these ingredients 
with a wooden spoon upon the fire until they thicken. 
When the herrings are cooked remove them to a hot 
dish, and pour the sauce over them. 

Maquereau a la mattre d'hdtel (Mackerel) 

Grill the mackerel in the usual manner. Melt a 
lump of butter in a saucepan with a little chopped 
parsley and chives, salt and pepper, and the juice of 
a lemon, and pour it over the fish. 



26 



CHAPTER IV 

ragoOts (stews) 

The French begin, all their stews by browning 
the meat in butter, adding water or stock afterwards. 
This method causes the brown gravy so much 
appreciated by English people travelling on the 
Continent. A white washy-looking gravy is un- 
known in France ; the plainest of cooks browns the 
meat she prepares. 

Ragout de Veau a la Rameses 

Specially recommended. 

Ingredients : 

Two or more pounds of veal, cut into pieces. 

Quarter lb. of fat bacon. 

Two large onions or four or five small ones. 

A lump of butter the size of an egg. 

A bay leaf, sprig of thyme, and parsley tied 

together. 
Salt and pepper. 
Half-pint of sour thick cream. 
37 



French Household Cooking 

Place the butter in a " cocotte," or saucepan with a 
cover that closes hermetically. Divide it into small 
pieces so that it melts equally. Cut the bacon into 
thin slices and place them on the top of the butter 
so as to cover the bottom of the pan ; lay the slices 
one beside the other. Above this layer of bacon 
throw in the onions cut in rings, and the bunch of 
herbs. Put the pan on the fire and leave it un- 
covered. The veal is now salted and peppered on 
one side, turned, and salted and peppered again ; 
and when the contents of the pan begin to smoke, 
add the meat. Cover it hermetically and stew on a 
slow fire for an hour and a half. Remove the pieces 
of veal and bacon with a fork ; put them on a hot 
dish ; throw away the bouquet of herbs ; put the 
stew-pan on the fire again and add the sour cream, 
stirring it constantly to detach the glutinous sub' 
stances at the bottom of the pan. Pour the sauce, 
which is now a golden brown, through a colander 
over the meat, and serve at once. If the cream is 
too fresh it can be soured by pouring into it a good 
spoonful of vinegar and mixing well. Serve with a 
dish of dry rice, boiled in salted water for twenty 
minutes. 

Ragout de Mouton (the French for Irish Stew) 

Put the "cocotte," or stew-pan, oh the fire to 
warm, throw in a lump of butter the size of an egg. 
When melted and steaming add the pieces of 
mutton, salt and pepper them, and let them brown 
in the butter on both sides. When a deep colour, 
remove them with a fork to a dish. Peel a dozen 

28 



RagoOts (Stews) 

or so of potatoes, cut them into halves or quarters, 
according to the size — and in preference cook a small 
waxy potato that will not require cutting ; add a 
turnip or two ; throw them into the stew-pan ; let 
them brown in the same way as the mutton. Add 
a couple of large onions or half-a-dozen of smaller 
ones cut into pieces ; replace the mutton ; add a 
sufficient quantity of stock or hot water, a bunch of 
the usual herbs (bay leaf, thyme, and parsley). 
Cover the saucepan and let the contents simmer on 
a slow fire for two hours. If the sauce is not thick 
enough remove a small quantity just before serving, 
put it into a small bowl and add a teaspoonful of 
potato flour (f^cule) and pour it into the ragoflt. 
Skim the fat, taste, and add salt and pepper if 
necessary. 

Navariii (Mutton) 

Melt some butter in the stew-pan, add a shoulder 
or neck of mutton cut into pieces. When browned, 
remove the meat, and add a couple of tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Turn it quickly into the hot butter, and 
as soon as it becomes a rich brown moisten with 
water ; add salt, pepper, onions, and a bunch of 
herbs (bay leaf, thyme, and parsley). Replace the 
mutton in the stew-pan and let it boil on a slow fire 
for two hours. When nearly cooked, brown some 
turnips in a little butter in the frying-pan and pour 
them into the stew. Let them cook for half an 
hour, skim the fat, and serve. Potatoes and carrots 
can be used instead of turnips, or with them, 
according to taste. 

29 



French Household Cooking 



Veau Marengo (Veal) 

Cut a shoulder of veal into small pieces, throw 
them into a stew-pan with a lump of butter ; let the 
pieces colour on both sides. Add chopped parsley 
and shalot, salt and pepper, a glass of white wine, 
and a couple of tomatoes. Stew for an hour and a 
half on a slow fire. Remove the pieces to a round 
dish, pass the sauce through a strainer, and pour 
it over the meat. 



Boeuf a la Parisienne (Beef cooked in its own 
Gravy) 

Take a piece of top side of beef, put it into a 
saucepan with a lump of butter and a few onions ; 
salt and pepper plentifully; turn the beef when 
browned on one side. When both sides are brown, 
cover the saucepan and let the meat cook on a slow 
fire for three hours and a half. Before serving, place 
the beef on the dish, add a teaspoonful of potato 
flour (f6cule) to the gravy in the saucepan, shake it 
a moment and pour on to the dish. No water is used 
in the preparation of this meat, which will be found 
excellent if cooked slowly. 

B(Buf k la mode (Stewed Beef) 

* 

For this dish a piece of beef, neither too fat nor 
too lean, is required, not less than three or four 
pounds. If not sufficiently fat it must be larded in 

30 



RagoCits (Stews) 

the usual way, with narrow strips of fat bacon in- 
serted into the meat. This operation is generally 
done by the butcher, but in many households the 
beef is not larded. 

Ingredients : 

A calf's foot. 

A tumbler of water or stock. 
A liqueur glass of brandy (not indispensable). 
A bunch of carrots cut lengthways. 
Two onions, a sprig of thyme, bay leaf, and 
parsley tied together, and a clove or two. 

Place the beef in a stewing-pan with a lump of 
butter. Let it brown on both sides. Add a glass 
of water or stock and a small glass of brandy, 
salt and pepper ; and the calf's foot, cleansed 
in cold water and a little vinegar (it should have 
soaked for an hour or more). After the contents of 
the saucepan have been brought to boiling-point the 
water is skimmed, and the carrots, onions, and herbs 
added, the saucepan is covered and the meat cooked 
on a slow fire, just simmering, for four and a half 
hours, and turned two or three times. 

When the beef is tender when pricked with a 
fork, it is removed from the saucepan with the 
carrots, placed on a hot dish and kept warm, while 
the fat is skimmed from the sauce. The calf's foot 
is not generally served with the beef; it is eaten on 
the following day with a piquante sauce. Salt, 
pepper, and a good spoonful of sugar are added, and 
the meat and carrots replaced, and served with the 
gravy poured over them. If not sufficiently thick, a 

31 



French Household Cooldng 

teaspoonful of potato flour is stirred into the sauce 
before replacing the meat. 

BoBuf a la Bourgeoise (Stewed Beef with Olives 
and Tomatoes) 

Place a stew-pan on the fire with a lump of 
butter. When the butter steams add a piece of 
beef without bone, weighing between three and four 
pounds. Turn it on both sides until brown. Then 
salt and pepper well, cover the stew-pan and let it 
simmer for three or four hours, according to the 
weight of the meat. A quarter of an hour before 
serving stone half a pound of olives, and throw them 
in with the meat. 

Cut four or five large tomatoes in half, hori- 
zontally ; salt and pepper, and sprinkle the juicy 
part with a little chopped parsley and onion, and 
add a very small piece of butter. Put the tomatoes 
in a baking dish into the oven for about twenty 
minutes. 

Remove the meat from the saucepan ; carve it in 
thin slices, and place one overlapping the other along 
the centre of a dish ; pour the gravy over the meat 
and garnish the sides with a small heap of olives and 
half a tomato alternately. 

This meat is equally good the next day, if the 
weight be larger than is required for one meal. 

BoBuf au jus (Beef) 

Place a tender piece of top side of beef in a 
" cocotte " or stew-pan on the fire, with a lump of 

32 



RagoOts (Stews) 

butter ; salt and pepper the meat Then cover the 
pan hermetically and let it simmer gently for three 
hours or more, according to the weight ; when 
cooked, serve it on a hot dish, carve it in thin slices, 
and pour the gravy over it. No water or stock. 

]^paule de Mouton Brais6 k la Turque (Braised 
Shoulder of Mutton) 

Select a lean shoulder of mutton weighing about 
four pounds. Remove the bone and roll it in the 
form of a long thick sausage, salting and peppering 
the meat in the inside. Tie it with thin string in 
several places. In Paris, the butchers roll it and 
send it ready for cooking. 

Place a stew-pan, or " cocotte," on the fire with a 
lump of butter. When it begins to brown, add the 
meat, turning on all sides to colour it. When the 
mutton is of a rich golden tint, throw in a dozen 
medium -sized onions — after having removed the 
outer skin. When these in their turn are brown, 
add the bones from the shoulder, salt and pepper 
again, and cover the stew-pan. Do not add any 
water. The mutton must simmer on a slow fire, 
with the pan hermetically closed, for two hours. 
Boil half a pound of rice in salted water for twenty 
minutes. Strain the rice, remove the bones from 
the stew-pan, and throw the rice in with the mutton. 
Mix it well with the natural gravy that has come 
from the meat ; let it remain in the pan for a 
quarter of an hour, simmering gently with the 
mutton, and serve in a hot dish. The mutton is 
cut in slices (after the strings have been removed) or 

33 D 



French Household Cooking 

sent to table whole. The rice is placed around the 
meat, or in a mass, covering the centre of the dish, 
with the slices of mutton upon it. 

Mutton a la Vinaigrette (How to serve Cold 
Mutton) 

Cut thin slices from cold mutton, arrange them 
on an oblong dish, one slice overlapping the other. 
Make a sauce with two tablespoonfuls of oil to one 
of vinegar, a dessertspoonful of dry mustard, salt 
and pepper ; mix well together and pour over the 
meat. 



34 



CHAPTER V 

ENTRIES AND PLAIN HOUSEHOLD DISHES 

Poulet k la Creme (Chicken with a Cream Sauce) 

Cut one or two chickens into two, rub them whh 
salt and a dash of cayenne pepper. 

Put a good lump of butter in small pieces into a 
stew-pan, and cover the bottom of the pan with thin 
slices of bacon. Cover the bacon with a layer of 
onions cut into rings, and put the pan upon the fire. 
When the contents begin to smoke add the pieces of 
chicken, and let them stew upon a slow fire for an 
hour and a half. When ready they should be a 
light brown. Remove them from the pan, carve 
them and place them on a warm dish with the 
bacon. Put the stew-pan back again upon the fire. 
Add half a pint of sour thick cream, stirring con- 
stantly with a wooden spoon. Pour this sauce upon 
the chickens and serve hot. On no account add 
water to this sauce. 

Poulet au Citron (Chicken with Lemon Sauce) 

Boil a chicken with a handful of salt and three 
or four onions. The chicken can be carved after it 

35 



French Household Cooking 

is cooked, to serve as an entree, or can remain whole 
if the carving is done on the table. In either case 
the sauce is thrown over it. 

The sauce is made with the water in which the 
fowl has boiled, four eggs, and two lemons. 

Break the eggs into a bowl, whites and yolks, 
beat them well with a fork or the egg-whisk ; add a 
pinch of pepper and a couple of pinches of salt. 
Squeeze the juice from the lemons into another 
bowl, strain it, and mix it slowly with the eggs, 
stirring constantly. Then add gradually a little of 
the stock from the saucepan containing the fowl — 
about three-quarters of a pint — and pour it into a 
jug placed in a saucepan full of boiling water, to 
thicken as for a custard. When the sauce is of the 
thickness of double cream it is ready. 

Remove the chicken from the saucepan, carve it, 
and place it on a hot dish ; throw the sauce over it. 

Poulet Archiduc (Chicken) 

Carve a raw chicken as if it were roasted. Put a 
lump of butter into the stew-pan, when it steams add 
the pieces of chicken ; salt and pepper. Turn them 
on all sides with a wooden spoon when they begin 
to colour. Do not let them brown. Then pour in 
a glass of white wine, a glass of good stock, and a 
small glass of brandy. Let this boil for twenty 
minutes. Remove the pieces of chicken, and let the 
sauce boil again for a few minutes. When ready to 
serve add the yolks of three eggs and a cup of 
cream, taking care to incorporate them well ; the 
eggs or cream must be mixed with the sauce away 

36 



Entries and Plain Household Dishes 

from the fire. Dress the chicken in the centre of a 
round dish, pour the sauce over it through a 
strainer, and garnish with button mushrooms turned 
in butter. 

Poulet au Blanc (Chicken) 

Cut up the chicken and boil it in water with a 
handful of salt, a couple of onions, and a bouquet of 
herbs, for about three-quarters of an hour, or more if 
necessary, according to the age of the bird. Take a 
small saucepan, melt a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, rather more than less ; add a good tablespoonful 
of flour ; mix well with a wooden spoon and add a 
portion of the water from the saucepan the chicken 
has boiled in. Let this boil on a slow fire for about 
ten minutes. In the meantime, break the yolks of 
three eggs into a bowl with the juice of two lemons, 
beat them well and add them to the sauce. The 
saucepan, after being taken off the fire, and the eggs 
introduced slowly, should be turned constantly to give 
the sauce a creamy appearance. Taste if sufficiently 
salted, add a pinch of pepper ; remove the pieces of 
chicken from the saucepan, place them in a pyramid 
on a round dish, and pour the sauce over them. 
This sauce should be sufficiently thick to completely 
mask the chicken. 

Poulet k la G^noise (Cold Chicken) 

Boil a large fowl or capon with a handful of 
salt, keeping the cover of the saucepan hermetically 
closed. When the fowl is cooked remove it into a 
colander and let it strain. Then place it in a deep 

37 



French Household Cooking 

dish, and pour the following sauce over it while it is 
still hot : A cupful of good salad oil, a cupful of 
vinegar, salt, pepper, a few pickled gherkins — finely 
chopped — a handful of capers, and, if convenient, a 
small glass of white wine. Let the sauce cover the 
fowl on all sides and remain in this " marinade " for 
at least twenty-four hours in a cool place. Turn the 
fowl from one side to the other. Serve it with a 
vegetable or green salad. 

Ris de Yean Brais6s (Braised Sweetbreads) 

Given two sweetbreads weighing about a pound 
and a half to two pounds, the price of this entrde is 
not excessive. It is the very large "breads" that 
make the prudent housekeeper hesitate and fear lest 
the expense be too great. For a small entree there 
is nothing to beat the sweetbread, but, like all food 
worth eating, it must be well prepared. And how 
few people understand the simple art of cooking 
sweetbread ! The first process is to put it into 
cold water, and change the water several times in 
order to cleanse it as much as possible. But no 
matter how long it has been lying in water, it must 
be bleached before the real preparation of cooking 
begins. To bleach it, put the sweetbread in a 
saucepan full of cold water, and let it slowly be 
brought to boiling-point. If it boils too quickly, the 
bleaching has not been thoroughly effected. As soon 
as the water boils, the sweetbreads are taken from 
the saucepan and passed in cold water. A stew- 
pan is placed on the fire, the bottom covered with 
a layer of bacon rind, to prevent the sweetbread from 

38 



Entrees and Plain Household Dishes 

colouring, A carrot and an onion are cut into slices, 
a small bunch of herbs (a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, 
and a sprig of thyme tied together) are added, and 
then and only then is the sweetbread introduced 
and covered carefully, first with a round of buttered 
paper the exact size of the saucepan, and then with 
the cover of the stew-pan. It is now placed on a 
very slow fire and after five minutes or so a wine- 
glassful of white wine is poured into it. And 
when this begins to dry and thicken, salt and pepper 
and a sufficient quantity of stock are added to 
nearly cover the sweetbread. The stew-pan is now 
put into a quick oven, covered, and allowed to cook 
for about three-quarters of an hour. The vegetables 
and bacon rind removed, the sweetbreads are placed 
on the dish ; the sauce is passed through a fine 
strainer, and there is nothing more to do than to add 
salt and pepper, and the juice of a lemon, and pour 
it over the " breads " dressed, and cut into slices in 
the centre of the dish. 

Ris de Veau aux Pointes d'Asperges (Sweetbreads 
and Asparagus Points) 

The sweetbreads are cooked in the same manner 
as in the preceding recipe, but only a portion of the 
sauce is poured upon them, sufficient to cover 
them but not to cover the dish. The asparagus 
points are calculated at half a small bunch for each 
person. They are lightly scraped and broken, in 
order to be perfectly sure that no portion of the 
edible branch is lost. When they are cut it is 
impossible to tell exactly where the " wood " begins. 

39 



French Household Cooking 

The asparagus are then cut into small pieces, about 
a quarter of an inch long ; the tips, in about a finger- 
length, are tied into a small bundle and thrown with 
the rest into a saucepan full of boiling water, not 
too much salted, and boiled for ten minutes without 
being covered, in order to retain their colour. They 
are then strained. In thp meanwhile a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut is put into a small sauce- 
pan ; as soon as the butter is melted, the saucepan 
is taken off the fire and a tablespoonful of flour 
added, and amalgamated with a .wooden spoon. 
Then the remainder of the sauce from the sweetbread 
is poured in ; put on the fire again until just about to 
boil, with a pinch or two of pepper ; and just before 
serving a certain quantity of butter is incorporated, 
always turned with a wooden spoon. The quantity 
of butter is calculated at about the size of a hazel 
nut per bunch of asparagus points. For six people, 
three bunches of " points " and three little lumps of 
butter. The asparagus is then turned into the sauce 
and served around the sweetbread, the little bunch of 
tips stuck in the centre. 

Lamb's Fry 

Lamb's " fry " can be prepared in the same way 
as the sweetbread, braised with or without asparagus 
points. 

Cdtelettes d'Agneau Maintenon (Lamb Cutlets) 

Half cook the cutlets in butter, one for each 
person. Make a thick bechamel sauce with butter, 
flour, and boiled milk (as explained in the Chapter 

40 



Entr^s and Plain Household Dishes 

on Sauces) ; add grated cheese, about a quarter of a 
pound for six or eight cutlets, and a tablespoonful 
of onion pur6e, mixed with the cheese and the 
bechamel ; salt and pepper. Place the cutlets on the 
dish that is to be served to table. Cover each cutlet 
with this thick compound, put it into the oven for a 
few minutes to colour. Pour the brown butter from 
the pan in which the cutlets have cooked over the 
dish that you take from the oven, and serve. 

Cdtelettes de Mouton k la Villeroy (Mutton 
Cutlets) 

Take some small mutton or lamb cutlets, half 
grill them, and let them cool. Put a piece of butter 
and a tablespoonful of flour into a small saucepan, 
work one into the other and add a cup of milk. Mix 
it well with a wooden spoon until it thickens upon 
the fire. Remove the saucepan and add two yolks 
of eggs and half a cup of cream. Dip the cutlets 
into this sauce, which should be thick enough to 
entirely cover the meat, and let them cool on a tin. 
Then dip them in flour, then in egg, and then in 
grated bread-crumbs. Put a piece of butter into 
the frying-pan, and add a tablespoonful of good 
salad oil. When very hot fry the cutlets therein, 
and serve on a purde of potatoes, browned in the 
oven. 

Escalopes de Veau k la Bourgeoise (Veal Cutlets) 

Cut a number of small thin slices off a tender 
piece of veal. Break an egg into a soup plate, salt 

41 



French Household Cooking 

and pepper it and beat it well ; in another plate 
mix an equal quantity of bread-crumbs and grated 
gruyfere cheese. Salt and pepper the slices of veal, 
and dip them into the egg and then into the bread- 
crumbs and cheese. Fry in butter and serve on a 
bed of dry rice, cooked in salted water for twenty 
minutes, covered with a tomato sauce. The small 
slices are well browned and arranged in a circle, one 
resting upon the other on the sauce. 



Escalopes de Veau Nature (Veal Cutlets) 

The slices of veal, in this instance, are cut much 
thicker, and should be about the size of the palm 
of a woman's hand, and as thick cis an ordinary steak. 
Salt and pepper each piece of veal on both sides ; 
put a lump of butter into the frying-pan, and when it 
steams place the veal in the pan. When the juice 
from the meat bubbles on the top, turn it ; when 
the same occurs on the other side the cutlets are 
sufficiently cooked. They are then served on a 
warm dish and the natural gravy in the frying-pan 
thrown over them. These cutlets can be served 
alone, or on a pur^e of spinach, or surrounding a 
pyramid of French beans. 

Escalopes de Veau a la Parisienne (Veal Cutlets) 

Small thin slices of veal are cut in the same way 
as k la Bourgeoise, salted and peppered on both 
sides, passed in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried 
in butter. Served with alternate slices of fried 

42 



Entrees and Plain Household Dishes 

bread and rounds of lemon, dressed upon a circular 
dish, with a pur6e of endive in the centre. 



Escalopes Visconti (Veal Cutlets) 

Cut some veal into small slices, thinner than for 
the usual veal cutlets. Flatten them. Place them 
in a frying-pan with a piece of butter scarcely 
melted, taking care that the butter does not brown. 
Salt and pepper the small cutlets, turn them from 
one side to the other. Sprinkle them with chopped 
parsley, and when the meat is nearly cooked squeeze 
the juice of a lemon over them. They should be 
nearly white, not browned like the ordinary veal 
cutlets. 

Caneton k la Rouennaise (Duck a la Rouennaise) 

The real difference that exists in the qualification 
of a duck from Rouen or any other region, lies in 
the manner of killing it The Nantais, or Aylesbury, 
or Marseilles duck becomes a Rouennais merely from 
the fact that the blood is retained. The ordinary 
duck is bled. The Rouennais is strangled. There 
was an outcry some year or two ago against the 
Caneton k la Rouennaise, owing to the insufficiency 
of the cooking of the blood which made the sauce 
so widely esteemed. It has, however, since been 
discovered that ducks can still be prepared in this 
approved fashion if the blood is boiled. Con- 
sequently the Rouennais duck is now prepared in 
the kitchen, and not in sight of the guests as was 
once the custom. 

43 



French Household Cooking 

Roast a duck twenty to five-and-twenty minutes. 
Remove the liver and chop it finely (the liver must 
not be roasted with the duck), salt and pepper it 
and throw it into a little hot butter and let it cook 
for two minutes. Carve the fillets from the duck 
and keep them warm on a hot dish. The pink 
gravy must be put into a special dish above a spirit 
lamp (or into a silver or china saucepan upon the 
fire). The carcase is pressed in an ordinary pressing 
machine, that costs about three shillings instead of 
the monumental press costing twelve pounds that the 
big restaurants thought it necessary to show their 
clients. Let the juice thus obtained be added to 
the gravy and allow it to boil ; but when boiling- 
point is reached remove it and add the liver, a small 
glass of brandy, the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, 
a little butter, and a teaspoonful of flour. Mix it 
all thoroughly, but do not let the sauce boil again. 
Pour it over the fillets of duck and serve. 

Li^vre k la Royale (Hare) 

This recipe for preparing a hare is famous for 
three reasons. The first because it is a favourite 
with King Edward VII.; the second ? because it is 
said to have been prepared by Senator Conteaux 
himself for his Royal guest ; the third because it is 
of excellent flavour. 

This dish comes from Poitou, a part of France 
that is as celebrated for its cooking as Rouen for 
pottery. A remarkable fact in connection with this 
preparation is, that although there is an abundance 
of garlic and shalot, the effect of both is, so to speak, 

44 



Entr^s and Plain Household Dishes 

annihilated by each other, and the guest never 
suspects that either of these powerful ingredients has 
been introduced into the hare. 

Take a hare, having passed the baby age. Kill 
it as cleanly as possible, in order to lose as little of 
the blood as possible. 

Skin it, and remove the inside. Keep the blood 
and the liver. 

Take about a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, 
a little parsley, six cloves of garlic, eight cloves of 
shalot, a crust of bread soaked in water, and 
crumble it over the liver, the bacon, the garlic, and 
the shalot. Break two eggs over this; salt and 
pepper and chop it altogether as fine, as fine, as 
fine. . . . 

This preparation constitutes the " stuffing." Fill 
the hare with it and sew the opening carefully 
together. 

Line a stew-pan with rashers of bacon, and place 
the hare in it, in a circle. In the centre put three 
onions, each onion stuck with a clove ; a carrot cut 
into slices ; salt and pepper. Put the stew-pan into 
a hot oven. When the hare is browned, very brown, 
and the carrot and onions have given all the moisture 
they contain, pour in a glass of stock and let it boil 
for about five minutes, the necessary time to make 
the sauce. The stock can be replaced by a glass of 
white wine. 

The blood, which has been lying in a bowl, is 
now the chief ingredient of the sauce. Pour into 
it three tablespoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, two of brandy, mix well and work in, little 
by little, sufficient white wine to smooth it Pour 

45 



French Household Cooking 

this over the hare so that it partly covers it ; add 
parsley, thyme, bay leaf, fifteen cloves of garlic, 
and thirty cloves of shalot chopped fine, and let it 
cook on a slow fire, simmering like a stew, for at 
least three hours and a half. 

Put the hare on a dish, the sauce through a 
strainer over it. 

The onions, carrots, and bacon must cook with 
the hare until the end. The white wine can be 
replaced by red. The hare is served with a spoon. 

Lievre k la Darsy (Hare) 

Cut a hare into small pieces, and remove the 
blood. Dry it with a cloth. Put about a quarter 
of a pound of butter into a saucepan ; add, when 
the butter steams, a glassful of chopped shalot, 
a tablespoonful of flour, and let them brown for 
about a quarter of an hour. Then pour in a cup of 
cream, a cup of vinegar, and the juice of a lemon. 
Into another saucepan put a piece of butter the size 
of an egg ; throw in the hare, cut into pieces, but do 
not let it brown. Salt and pepper, and pass the 
sauce through a strainer over it. Add thyme, 
parsley, and bay leaf, and let it cook on a slow 
fire for two hours. Tie the herbs in a bouquet so 
that they can be removed before serving. 

Champignons k la Creme (Mushrooms and Cream) 

A dish of mushrooms prepared in the following 
manner is food for gods, and is served either as a 
vegetable after the roast joint, or as an entrde before 
it. For two pounds of button mushrooms put a 

46 



Entrees and Plain Household Dishes 

quarter of a pound of butter and the juice of a 
lemon into a saucepan. Clean the mushrooms with 
a pointed knife and lay them on a plate, then throw 
them altogether into a basin. Pour a little water 
over them and rub them for a minute or two, as 
mushrooms rubbed one against the other become 
white as milk. Throw them into a colander to 
drain, and thence into the butter and lemon in the 
saucepan. Put them on a quick fire, and let them 
boil for three minutes. Take another saucepan, a 
small one, put into it a lump of butter the size of 
a large egg, a tablespoonful of flour, salt, pepper, 
and a cupful of warm milk. Boil for ten minutes, 
stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Place 
the mushrooms on a hot entrde dish, and throw the 
contents of the small saucepan over them. 

Souffle au Fromage (Cheese Souffl^) 

For an ordinary sized souffle dish for six or eight 
people, put a lump of butter — quite an eighth of 
a pound — into a small saucepan with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Mix one with the other with a 
wooden spoon on the edge of the fire ; then salt 
and pepper, and add about half a pint of hot water, 
stirring constantly while it boils ; add a quarter of 
a pound of grated gruy^re cheese, and a table- 
spoonful of parmesan. Remove the saucepan and 
let it cool a little. Then break, one after the other, 
the yolks of four eggs therein. Beat the whites 
separately to a stiff froth in a bowl and mix them 
lightly with the contents of the saucepan, and pour 
into a buttered souffld dish, leaving a couple of 

47 



French Household Cooking 

inches for the souffle to rise. Cook it in a moderate 
oven for a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, and 
serve immediately. If the top of the soufH6 browns 
too quickly, cover it with buttered paper. 

Ponle au Riz (Fowl and Rice) 

Put a quart of water, or stock, in a saucepan, 
with a piece of butter the size of an egg, a large 
onion cut into halves, a handful of salt, and pepper, a 
sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, and a little parsley tied 
together. When the water boils add a large fowl 
which has been prepared for boiling. In a couple of 
hours, or an hour and a half if the fowl is young, it 
will be cooked. About twenty minutes before it is 
finished remove the fowl into another saucepan, and 
strain over it the water in which it has been boiled. 
Wash a breakfast cupful of rice and add it to the 
fowl. Cover the saucepan hermetically and boil 
slowly for twenty minutes. Place the bird on a 
dish, add a lump of butter to the rice, mix it well 
with a fork, and pour it over the fowl. If the rice 
is too thick moisten it with a little water. Taste to 
see if sufficiently salted. 

Foie de Veau (Calves' Liver) 

Cut the liver into slices, salt and pepper plentifully. 
Place a lump of butter in a frying-pan ; add the liver 
when the butter has ceased spluttering. When the 
blood oozes turn the slices on the other side. Liver 
takes the same time to cook as steak, not longer or 
it becomes hard. Serve on a hot dish and pour the 
natural gravy around it. 

48 



Entr&s and Plain Household Dishes 

Foie de Veau Roul^ (Rolled Liver) 

The liver is cut into slices of equal thickness, 
salted and peppered, each slice covered with the 
following mixture : a little chopped bacon, a little 
bread soaked in water, an egg, a little chopped 
parsley, and a small chopped onion, the whole 
worked into a paste. Each piece of liver is then 
rolled and tied with thin string or cotton, and placed 
in a frying-pan with a lump of butter. When the 
butter is hot, the liver is turned on all sides to brown, 
and a ripe tomato is passed through a sieve and 
added. The pan is then covered for a quarter of an 
hour on a slow fire ; the strings are cut and with- 
drawn, and the rolled liver served with the sauce 
poured over it. This dish requires pepper in 
profusion. 

Blanquette de Veau (Veal with White Sauce) 

Cut a couple of pounds, or more, of veal, from the 
shoulder, breast, or neck, into cubic pieces of two or 
three inches. Put a quart of water into a saucepan 
with a handful of salt, a couple of onions cut in 
halves ; a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, and a little 
parsley tied together. When the water boils add 
the meat, cover the saucepan, and let it cook for 
three-quarters of an hour on a quick fire. In a 
smaller saucepan place a lump of butter the size of 
an egg, and a little over a tablespoonful of flour. 
Mix the butter and flour together ; add little by 
little — stirring constantly with a wooden spoon — the 
greater part of the water in which the veal is cooked. 
Let it boil slowly for about ten minutes ; remove it 

49 K 



French Household Cooking 

from the fire and add the juice of a lemon, the yolk 
of an egg, and a good pinch of pepper. (The egg is 
not absolutely necessary.) Place the pieces of veal 
in the centre of a dish, and pour the sauce, which 
should be thick and creamy, over it. 

Rognons de Mouton (Kidneys) 

Cut the kidneys into halves ; grill them ; salt 
and pepper plentifully. Place a piece of butter in a 
small saucepan ; when it melts add a tablespoonful 
of mustard and a little chopped parsley, and pour it 
over the kidneys on a hot dish. 

Mouton en Chevreuil (Mutton) 

Place the shoulder or leg of mutton in an earthen- 
ware dish. Throw over it a cupful of vinegar, a 
cupful of salad oil, two onions and carrots cut into 
rings, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf and parsley ; 
pepper in profusion and a very little salt. Leave 
the mutton in this " marinade " for two or three 
days, basting and turning it occasionally. Remove 
the mutton from the "marinade" a quarter of an 
hour before it is to be cooked. Then place it in a 
baking dish in a quick oven with a piece of butter. 
Salt it, strain the "marinade," and pour it into 
the gravy in the oven a few minutes before serving. 

Filets Rossini 

Put a lump of butter into a low saucepan, and 
let it heat until it is brown. Cut thick slices from a 
fillet of beef, and cook them in this butter. Remove 

so 



Entries and Plain Household Dishes 

them when the blood oozes through the meat ; salt 
and pepper. Place in the same saucepan in the 
same butter slices of foie gras, which must cook for 
about five minutes. Put a slice of foie gras on each 
fillet, on a warm dish. Moisten with a glass of 
sherry, a spoonful of tomato sauce, and some con- 
centrated beef extract Let this boil for five 
minutes on a quick fire. Just before serving add 
some foie gras about the size of an egg passed 
through a fine sieve, to the sauce, but do not let it 
boil. Pour the sauce over the fillets. The Filets 
Rossini are generally served upon rounds of fried 
bread of the exact size of the pieces of meat and 
foie gras, and the sauce is poured around them. It 
is customary to serve this entree in a round dish. 

Pain de Veau (a Family Dish) 

Chop three-quarters of a pound of beef and three- 
quarters of veal as finely as possible ; put two pounds 
of stale bread into a basinful of water ; when soft, 
drain the water from the bread. Chop two small 
onions and a sprig of parsley. Break three eggs into 
a bowl, add the onions and parsley, the meat, the 
bread, and a teaspoonful of salt and pepper. Mix 
these ingredients with a wooden spoon until they are 
amalgamated. Shape the paste into a long mass 
(something like a roly-poly). Bake for an hour to 
an hour and a half, without water or fat Serve cold. 

Friture Mixte (Brains and Liver) 

Brains and calf's liver are required for this 
homely and excellent dish. Break an egg in a 

SI 



French Household Cooking 

deep dish, white and yolk together, with a pinch 
of salt. Beat it with a fork for a minute. Cut the 
brains into small pieces, about the size of a walnut, 
roll them in the egg, and then in bread-crumbs. Cut 
the liver into pieces, round or square as they come, 
the size of the palm of a hand. Roll them in flour. 
Place a lump of butter in a frying-pan on a quick 
fire, and when steaming hot fry the brains and liver 
on both sides. When brown they are cooked. 
Serve on a hot dish, the brains and liver pell mell 
in the centre, surrounded with slices of lemon. 

Jambon k la Milord (Ham) 

This is a dish to be recommended for a dinner- 
party, to be served before the sweet. It is very 
decorative and much appreciated by gourmets. For 
twelve to fifteen people the quantities are as follow : — 
As many slices of cooked ham as there are guests, a 
mayonnaise sauce (see Chapter on Sauces), a salad 
composed of half a pound of sliced potatoes, five 
artichoke fonds, a small bunch of asparagus points, 
and twelve walnuts. 

Each vegetable is cooked and salted and peppered 
separately. Four or five leaves of gelatine, soaked 
in cold water, are added to the mayonnaise. The 
vegetables are mixed together, six of the nuts are 
broken and added, and the mayonnaise poured over 
them when the vegetables are cold. 

The slices of ham are steeped in aspic jelly and 
placed upon the vegetable mayonnaise, one next the 
other, completely masking it. The top of the salad 
is flattened and decorated with slices of hard egg 



Entrees and Plain Household Dishes 

and the remainder of the nuts in halves (also steeped 
in aspic) forming a circle. The base of the dish is 
ornamented with chopped jelly. 

A Simple Recipe for Aspic Jelly 

Calf's foot, veal bones, rind of bacon, two carrots, 
two onions, thyme, parsley, and bay leaf, a glass of 
sherry. 

Place the carrots, onions, thyme, parsley, and 
bay leaf in a saucepan, with the bones, rind, and 
calf's foot cut in pieces and well washed. Cover 
with water, add salt and pepper, and let it boil 
hermetically closed for six or seven hours. Add 
the sherry. Strain it, let it cool, and skim the fat. 
Boil again with a couple of white of eggs to clarify. 



53 



CHAPTER VI 

ROASTS 

On Roasts I have little to say. Nothing can equal 
the roasting of meat as known to the English cook. 
Meats of all descriptions are baked in France. 
Poultry is buttered before it is put into the oven 
and basted constantly ; salted and peppered when 
the flesh is "seized." Chickens are invariably 
moister in France than in England — caused not 
solely by the quality of the birds. 

In order to thicken the gravy of roast beef and 
veal, and to vary the flavour, French cooks pour 
about half a cupful of double cream into the pan a 
minute or two before removing the joint from the 
oven. The cream must be stirred into the gravy and 
remain in the pan just sufficient time to warm it. 

Grouse, pheasants, partridges, snipe and game 
generally are delicious with the addition of a little 
cream that has been allowed to become sour, mixed 
with the gravy ; or with fresh cream, made tart with 
a dash of lemon. 



54 



CHAPTER VII 

SAUCES 

Sauce Bechamel (White Sauce) 

This is the simplest of sauces that every cook thinks 
she knows how to make, and that the majority of 
inexperienced cooks serve like a paste. In France 
the first lesson a novice learns is, that all sauces 
containing flour must simmer for ten minutes to a 
quarter of an hour after the flour has been mixed 
with the other ingredients. If this fact is remem- 
bered, there is no reason why an English white 
sauce should not be as good as the bechamel found 
so delightful in France. 

Put a lump of butter, the size of an egg, into a 
small saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of flour ; 
mix the butter and flour on the corner of the fire 
with a wooden spoon. Add half a pint of milk, 
and turn this mixture constantly with a spoon on a 
moderate fire for a quarter of an hour. When it is 
quite smooth and thick like cream, take it off the 
fire and add salt and pepper and another lump of 
butter, mixing well together. 

This sauce is specially recommended served with 
SS 



French Household Cooking 

hard eggs or vegetables boiled in water, such as 
cauliflowers and marrows. 

Sauce Blanche (another White Sauce) 

There is very little difference between the white 
sauce and the bechamel. A lump of butter is put into 
a saucepan on a slow fire and a large spoonful of 
flour worked into it until they are well mixed. 
Instead of milk, water is added, and the sauce is 
turned constantly with a wooden spoon for a quarter 
of an hour until quite smooth, and when ready it is 
salted and peppered and improved with an extra 
lump of butter as in the bechamel. If the sauce 
becomes uneven, a little cold water and a little more 
energy while stirring it with the spoon will remedy all 
defects. 

Sauce Poulette 

Commence this sauce in the same way as the 
bechamel or white sauce. Add half a pint of hot 
water to the flour and butter ; let it cook the 
necessary quarter of an hour ; take it off the fire. 
Beat the yolk of an egg, add it to the sauce, with 
a little vinegar or the juice of a lemon, salt, and 
pepper. 

Sauce k la Creme (Cream Sauce) 

In the country this sauce is much appreciated, 
where cream is as easily obtainable as milk in town ; 
it is excellent and quickly made. Put a bowl of 
cream into an earthenware or china saucepan, let it 
warm without boiling. Take it off the fire, add the 

56 



Sauces 

yolks of two eggs, a small piece of butter, salt and 
pepper, beating all together with a wooden spoon. 
For boiled fish, or to serve with asparagus, this 
sauce is unequalled. 

Sauce a la Creme (a Sauce for White Entries) 

Put a little butter into a small saucepan, with 
parsley, chives, and shalots, chopped fine, a table- 
spoonful of flour, and a cupful of milk. Boil for a 
quarter of an hour. Pass the sauce through a 
colander into another saucepan, add a lump of good 
butter and a pinch of finely chopped parsley, salt, 
pepper. Mix with a wooden spoon. 

Sauce Piquante 

Cut two onions into slices, a carrot, a sprig of 
thyme, a bay leaf, two cloves, two shalots, parsley, 
chives. Put them into a small saucepan with a 
little butter, place the saucepan on a moderate fire ; 
when coloured a golden brown add a tablespoonful 
of flour, a little stock and a tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Boil it again on a moderate fire, pass it through a 
sieve, and season with salt and plenty of pepper. 

Mattre d'Hdtel (Butter Sauce) 

Put a good lump of butter into a saucepan or 
earthenware pan, on a moderate fire. Chop a little 
parsley and chives, or parsley alone, and add to 
the butter, with salt and pepper, and a dash of 
lemon. This sauce is poured over a steak or fish, 
or served in a sauce-boat, and is ready as soon as the 
butter is sufficiently warmed. 

57 



French Household Cooking 
Sauce Hollandaise (Butter Sauce) 

Melt a quarter of a pound of butter more or less, 
according to the quantity of sauce required. Throw 
in a handful of table salt and whip it with a 
fork until it becomes frothy. Pour it into a warm 
sauce tureen and serve with boiled fish. 

Sauce au Beurre Noir 

Place a frying-pan on the fire to warm. Throw 
into it a lump of butter ; let it brown without 
burning. When hot remove the pan from the fire 
and pour two tablespoonfuls of vinegar into the hot 
butter, salt and pepper, and a handful of capers. 

Sauce Soubise (Onion Sauce) 

Cut three or four large onions into small pieces. 
Put them into a saucepan with a lump of butter the 
size of an egg, on a moderate fire. When browned, 
add a tablespoonful of flour. Mix well together 
with a wooden spoon, add a cupful of hot water, 
salt, and pepper. Let it simmer for a quarter of an 
hour. Mix a little mustard with a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, pour into the sauce just before serving. 

Sauce Remoulade (Cold) 

Mix a tablespoonful of mustard with a table- 
spoonful of vinegar in a bowl ; add four or five 
gherkins finely chopped. Break the yolks of two 
eggs into another bowl, chop a few leaves of taragon 

S8 



Sauces 

and three shalots, and mix with the eggs. Add four 
spoonfuls of salad oil drop by drop, as if for a 
mayonnaise, turning briskly with a wooden spoon. 
Mix the gherkins in the first bowl with the sauce, 
and serve with hot or cold meats, or boiled iisL 

Sauce Ravigote (Cold) 

Boil two eggs, hard, mix the yolks to a paste 
with four anchovies boned and scraped. Put them 
into a bowl with a spoonful of mustard, salt, and 
pepper ; add four spoonfuls of olive oil, or good salad 
oil, turning briskly with a wooden spoon. Chop a 
handful of sweet herbs as finely as possible, and 
mix them with the other ingredients. The oil should 
be added very slowly, a small quantity at a time. 

Sauce Tartare 

Place a small saucepan on the fire with a spoonful 
of flour and a lump of butter the size of a small egg ; 
mix the flour with the butter and moisten with a 
glass of warm water ; salt and pepper. Turn the 
sauce with a wooden spoon on a slow fire for a 
quarter of an hour, remove it when quite thick and 
let it cool. Chop three shalots, a sprig of parsley, a 
leaf or two of taragon, mix them together. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs in a bowl with a spoonful of 
mustard, the same quantity of vinegar, the chopped 
herbs, and about four tablespoonfuls of good salad oil; 
add the contents of the saucepan with the cold white 
sauce, and the sauce tartare will be perfect if the 
eggs are fresh and the oil of good quality. So much 
depends on the quality of the oil in these cold sauces. 

59 



French Household Cooking 

Sauce Mayonnaise 

Break the yolk of a fresh egg into a bowl, with 
salt and pepper, add drop by drop as much olive oil 
as the quantity of sauce required, beating the egg 
and oil together in the bowl with a fork or an egg 
whisk. Add a few drops of water, and a little 
vinegar when the mayonnaise is firm and creamy. 
The oil must be quite cold ; the bottle is generally 
put under running water for a few minutes before 
starting the sauce. 

Another Mayonnaise 

Mix a teaspoonful of flour with the yolk of a 
fresh egg in a bowl, with a tablespoonful of vinegar 
and a pinch of salt. Beat with a fork, adding drop 
by drop a little more than half a pint of oil. 

Sauce Vepte 

Boil a handful of spinach and squeeze the juice 
from the leaves through a fine cloth into a bowl. 
Add this green water to a mayonnaise sauce with 
some chopped taragon, chives, parsley, and shalot. 
Served with cold boiled salmon or salmon trout 

Sauce au Kirsch (Kirsch Sauce) 

Break the yolks of three eggs into a bowl with a 
little milk. Boil a pint of milk with a little sugar. 
Add the boiling milk to the eggs, turning them with 
a wooden spoon. Put the bowl into a saucepan full 

60 



Sauces 

of boiling water, and let the sauce thicken on the 
fire. Remove the bowl and pour into it three table- 
spoonfuls of kirsch. This is a sauce served with 
sweet puddings or thrown over sponge cakes. 

B^arnaise Sauce 

Break the yolks of three eggs into a bowl, with 
three spoonfuls of vinegar and a handful of taragon 
chopped fine. Salt and pepper, and place the bowl 
in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and turn 
it with a wooden spoon when it begins to thicken. 
Add a little more taragon if necessary, and pour 
into a warm sauce tureen. 

Another B^arnaise 

Put three tablespoonfuls of vinegar into a small 
saucepan on a quick fire, with a handful of chopped 
taragon, a few chives and shalots, all chopped as finely 
as possible. Remove the saucepan when the vinegar 
has nearly evaporated. Pour the contents of the 
saucepan into a bowl, break the yolks of three eggs 
therein, salt and pepper, and place the bowl in a 
saucepan of boiling water on the fire to thicken. 
Add some finely chopped taragon at the last 
moment, mixing it with the sauce, which should be 
as thick as cream and as smooth. 

Sauce Tomate (Tomato Sauce) 

Cut four or five tomatoes into three or four pieces. 
Put them into a saucepan with two onions cut into 
slices, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, and a little 

6i 



French Household Cooking 

parsley, salt and pepper. Let them boil for a quarter 
of an hour, turning them occasionally to avoid 
burning. Pass them through a fine sieve and replace 
the pur^e in the saucepan, with a lump of butter and 
a small spoonful of flour. Let the sauce boil a few 
minutes and serve. 

If tomato sauce is served in a sauce tureen, it is 
generally thickened with a sprinkling of flour ; if it 
is required to cover a dish of macaroni, it does not 
need thickening with flour. 

Bottled tomatoes or tomato sauce preserved in 
tins are treated in the same manner, as a good 
tomato sauce must be very much seasoned to satisfy 
epicures. 

Sauce Cumberland 

Chop, as finely as possible, two shalots. Put 
them into a saucepan with the rind of an orange 
and of a lemon cut into small thin strips. Add a 
little water ; boil for twenty minutes and strain off" 
the water. The rinds and the shalots are then put 
into a bowl with six tablespoonfuls of red currant 
jelly, a pinch of ginger, a little cayenne, the juice of 
a lemon and of an orange. This sauce is served 
cold with cold game 



CHAPTER VIII 

SALADS 

Lettuce Salad 

Cut lettuce leaves into pieces, not small, throw 
them into a basin of cold water with a handful of 
salt Drain them in a wire salad basket, and shake 
the basket several times to remove any water that 
may still be on the leaves. Mix in a salad bowl the 
following dressing : — 

For an ordinary bowl of salad for three or four 
people (one cos lettuce, or two cabbage lettuces) 
pour salad oil, the best to be had, into a tablespoon 
with a couple of pinches of salt and pepper ; stir 
over the salad ; then add another spoonful of oil 
and one of vinegar, and mix well together with a 
spoon and fork. If the salad is in a larger quantity 
than specified, the dressing must be increased, but 
always to the extent of double the quantity of 
oil to vinegar. A teaspoonful of mustard can be 
added to vary the flavour. 

Add if convenient half-a-dozen taragon leaves 
cut into pieces. Wash them in cold water first 

63 



French Household Cooking 

Water-cress Salad 

Wash a bundle of water-cress, and cut into pieces, 
neither too small nor too large. Drain in a salad 
basket and shake the basket as in the preceding 
recipe, and mix with one tablespoonful of vinegar 
and two tablespoonfuls of best salad oil ; salt and 
pepper. 

Endive, chicory, escarol, are all treated in the same 
way. 

Corn Salad and Beetroot 

Slices of beetroot are added to a corn salad and 
mixed in the same way. 

White Endive 

The vegetable known as " endive " is often made 
into salad, as it comes at a time when there are 
few green salads. The crisp white leaves are cut into 
two or three pieces and mixed with oil and vinegar 
in the ordinary proportions. 

Potato Salad 

Boil the potatoes in their skins, peel them when 
cooked, and cut them into slices — not too thick — 
add salt and pepper in equal quantities, and mix 
with oil and vinegar and a little chopped chervil. 

Another Potato Salad 

Cut the potatoes, when boiled and peeled, into a 
salad bowl, with salt and pepper, and mix with a 
mayonnaise. Sprinkle with capers before serving. 

64 



Salads 



Celery Salad 



Cut a head of celery into small pieces — throw 
them into cold water, strain in a salad basket ; mix 
a tablespoonful of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of oil, 
a teaspoonful of mustard, salt, and pepper, in a 
salad bowl. Add the celery and mix well. Beet- 
root can also be added to the salad if liked. 

French Bean Salad 

Boil the quantity of French beans required. 
Cut them into halves if too large, and serve as a salad 
with the usual oil and vinegar dressing (one spoon- 
ful of vinegar to two of oil ; salt and pepper). The 
beans must be cold before they are made into a 
salad. 

Vegetable Salad 

Carrots, turnips, peas, beans, flageolets, potatoes, 
are boiled. When cold, the carrots, turnips, and 
potatoes are cut into small cubes, the peas and 
beans are added in the salad bowl, and a dressing is 
made of oil and vinegar in the quantities prescribed 
in the preceding recipes. 

A vegetable salad is also made with a mayonnaise 
dressing (see Mayonnaise Sauce). 

When fresh vegetables are not obtainable, a tin 
of " Mac^doine " is bought, comprising cooked 
vegetables cut into cubes. The tin is opened and the 
vegetables are thrown into a strainer, and boiling 
water poured over them to remove any flavour of 
the tin. Carrots, turnips, and potatoes are added 

6s F 



French Household Cooking 

as in the vegetable salad proper, and " dressed " 
with the ordinary oil and vinegar dressing or a 
mayonnaise. 

Tomato Salad 

Choose sound tomatoes, not too ripe. Wipe each 
fruit with a doth to remove every particle of dust — 
but do not wash tomatoes. Cut the tomatoes into 
chunks, not slices, in a salad bowl ; add one small 
onion chopped fine, one tablespoonful of vinegar to 
two tablespoonfuls of oil, plenty of salt and pepper. 



Salade Malgaehe 

Cut up equal quantities of cold boiled potatoes, 
boiled celery root and beetroot. Mix with mayon- 
naise, and add a thick coating of the sauce to com- 
pletely mask the contents of the salad bowl. Build 
the salad in a pyramid and sprinkle with chopped 
peeled walnuts. 



Salade d'Artiehauts (Artichoke Salad) 

Boil six artichokes, separate the " fonds " from the 
leaves, and cut them into small pieces. Place them 
in a salad bowl with an equal quantity of asparagus 
points that have been cooked in salted water. Take 
a handful of salted almonds, chop them fine ; pound 
with them the juice of a couple of lemons and a cup 
of cream, pepper and salt, and pour over the salad. 
This salad can also be seasoned with a mayonnaise, 
but it loses somewhat of its delicacy. 

66 



Salads 

Salade Ambassadeur 

Boil a couple of pounds of French beans with a 
handful of salt If the beans are too long, break 
them in halves, but do not cut them. When tender, 
strain them and let them cool. Place them in a 
salad bowl with a little chopped parsley, and a pound 
of fresh tomatoes cut into chunks, and season with 
salt, pepper, and two spoonfuls of oil to one of 
vinegar. 

Salade Hongroise (Hungfarian Salad) 

Boil six or eight waxy potatoes in their skins. 
When cool, peel them and cut them in rounds as for 
the ordinary potato salad. Place them in a salad 
bowl with a hard egg chopped in small pieces, forty 
stoned French olives, a couple of pickled herrings 
boned and cut into thin strips, and half of an apple 
cut into the finest of slices in order to reduce it 
to pulp with the seasoning. Pour over this two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, two of salad oil, two of 
vinegar, and plenty of pepper. It is not necessary 
to add salt to this salad as there is already sufficient 
in the herrings and olives. 



67 



CHAPTER IX 

VEGETABLES 

There is a principle in cooking vegetables that 
must be established before entering into the minor 
details of seasoning, a principle which may make the 
old-fashioned cook shrug her venerable shoulders 
and lift her hands from her thighs. I am arriving 
at it slowly to prepare the imagination for an up- 
heaval. Here it is. Vegetables must be boiled in 
as little water as possible. No steaming saucepans 
of boiling water to cover a handful of cauliflower, 
peas or beans, carrots or turnips, but water just 
sufficient to moisten, to be added to at times as 
required. 

Doctors who have studied the important question 
of the preparation of food agree that the greater 
part of the nutrition in vegetables remains in the 
water wherein they boil. We eat, as it were, the 
husks when we have vegetables boiled in the 
customary way. 

The same applies to dried vegetables, to peas, 
beans, and lentils. A very little cold water is 
necessary to start the cooking of either of these, and 

68 



Vegetables 

as they swell hot water is added in small quantities. 
Dried vegetables should be soaked for twelve hours 
if possible, and cooked slowly for three at least. 
As a digestive, nutritious food there is nothing 
better than a pur^e of beans or lentils. The 
weakest can digest purees. 

To make vegetables palatable a handful of salt 
must be thrown into the water in which they cook. 
When they are tender they are poured into a strainer 
to drain. A lump of butter is put into a frying-pan, 
and when melted the vegetable is thrown into the 
pan, tossed or turned with a wooden spoon, sprinkled 
with pepper, and a little chopped parsley (if liked), 
and served hot. French beans, carrots, turnips, 
celery, peas, white beans, lentils, cabbage, are all 
treated in the same way, «>. cooked in small 
quantities of water, and tossed in butter when 
drained ; peppered and salted. If vegetables are 
fresh, they should be very palatable ; if they do not 
taste deliciously, they have either not been sufficiently 
salted and peppered, or the butter has not been of 
good quality. Those who want to economise in butter 
and use an inferior quality called " cooking butter " 
should refrain from seasoning their vegetables with 
anything but salt and pepper. 

Dried vegetables are placed in cold water ; fresh 
vegetables in hot water. 

Haricots Verts (French Beans) 

Break the beans into two or three pieces, but do not 
slit them. French beans, scarlet runners, or any long 
green beans lose their properties if cut into shreds, 

69 



French Household Cooking 

as they are by most inexperienced cooks in England. 
If the beans are too long to serve intact, cut or 
break them across, in their width, not in their length. 
Throw them into cold water to wash them. Pour 
them into a strainer. Place a small quantity of hot 
water and a handful of salt into a saucepan — 
sufficient water to just cover the beans. When the 
water boils throw in the beans and cook until tender, 
adding hot water when necessary. 

Remove them by pouring the contents of the 
saucepan into the strainer. Melt a lump of butter 
in a frying-pan and pour in the beans. Turn them 
for a minute or two with a wooden spoon. Sprinkle 
with pepper and they are ready. 

Haricots Verts k la Creme (French Beans and 
Cream) 

The same as the preceding recipe, with a small 
cupful of double cream for a dishful of beans, 
added at the last moment and mixed with a spoon 
and fork, when the beans are ready for serving in 
the entree dish. 

Beans and cream are not served with meat, but 
as a vegetable alone. 

How to cook Spinach 

The question of the cooking of spinach seems to 
be interesting the English public at the present 
moment, and I venture to think that a few recipes 
as prepared in French households may prove 
welcome to some of the uninitiated. First of all, 1 

70 



Vegetables 

would like to dispel the belief, so prevalent in 
England, that butter, as used in the cooking of 
vegetables in France, renders them indigestible, or, 
as the current expression has it, " bilious." This is 
a mistake on the face of it, as biliousness — almost 
unknown in France — is a national illness in England, 
caused not only by the heavy consumption of meat, 
but by the insufficient time given to the preparing 
of many vegetables, notably cabbages, which form 
part of the daily food in the United Kingdom. 
Butter is indispensable to the flavouring of vegetables, 
and is not in any way injurious to the health. To 
return to spinach. As a general rule it is estimated 
that for a dish of spinach — where it is not meant as 
an apology but a dish that is nutritious and intended 
to be partaken of freely — i lb. is required per person. 
No matter what the dressing of the spinach may be, 
the starting-point is always the same. It must be 
well washed, changing the water several times, then 
thrown into a saucepan of boiling water with a hand- 
ful of cooking-salt to boil for two or three minutes 
without covering the saucepan. The spinach is 
thereupon strained and placed under the tap of run- 
ning cold water while it is in the colander, squeezed 
between the hands and either chopped very fine 
or passed through a wire sieve. For 5 or 6 lbs. of 
spinach about ^ lb. of butter is placed in a stewpan, 
and when steaming hot the spinach is added, and 
turned rapidly with a wooden spoon to dry it with- 
out giving it time to lose its colour. Salt and 
pepper are sprinkled in moderation, with a pinch of 
sugar, and the vegetable is served as hot as possible 
surrounded with cubes of bread fried in butter. 

71 



French Household Cooking 

Spinach k la Creme 

Prepare as in the preceding recipe with a tea- 
cupful of double cream added to the spinach before 
it is taken from the stew-pan to be served. 

Spinach au jus 

The same as before, with a teacupful of good 
gravy instead of butter. 

Subrics of Spinach 

After having blanched, refreshed, pressed and 
chopped 2 lbs. of spinach, throw it into hot butter. 
Salt and pepper, and add a tablespoonful of flour. 
Let this pur^e cook for six or seven minutes, then 
take it off and add three eggs and three yolks beaten 
together. Mix them with the spinach, and, spoonful 
by spoonful, drop them into a stew-pan containing 
sufficient quantity of steaming butter to fry them. 
Turn the subrics from one side to the other and 
let them cook for another three or four minutes ; 
strain and serve them in a turban on a round dish 
with a good creamy bechamel sauce in the centre. 

Spinach with various dressingfs 

Pluck the leaves from the stems of spinach. 
Wash the spinach carefully, shake it dry ; throw it 
into a saucepan of boiling water for five minutes ; 
remove it and throw it into cold water; press all 
the water out of it, hash it, pass it through a sieve ; 
put it into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh 
butter, salt, and pepper ; after five minutes it will 

72 



Vegetables 

be cooked. Have ready the yolk of a fresh egg 
with which you have incorporated two dessertspoon- 
fuls of fresh thick cream ; mix with the spinach. 
Now dish up the spinach with a garniture of fried 
crusts of bread, or with eggs poached in a poacher, 
or with hard-boiled eggs cut in half Instead of the 
yolk of egg and cream, a good clear gravy or meat 
juice may be used ; in this case garnish with fried 
ham, or braised ham, or tiny sausages, or with 
poached eggs. For six persons, 4 lbs. of spinach 
if the leaves are young, 3 lbs. if mature. Plenty 
of salt and pepper. 

Epinards (Spinach) 

Pluck and wash the spinach leaves. Throw them 
into a saucepan of boiling water and salt. When 
tender remove them, chop them on a board, pass 
them through a strainer, and throw them into melted 
butter in a frying-pan, with pepper, 

Chou-fleur au Gpatin (Cauliflower) 

Cut the flowers with their stalks from a large 
cauliflower. (Select it "close" and not too full 
blown.) Throw them into a basin full of water with 
a little salt, to kill any insect that may be hidden. 
Put sufficient water into a saucepan, with a handful 
of salt, to cover the flowers. When the water boils 
put the cauliflowers into it and cook until tender. 
Drain through a strainer and place each piece of 
flower, stalk upwards, into an ordinary pudding basin, 
fill the basin, always with the heads of flower down- 

73 



French Household Cooking 

wards, until all the cauliflower is in it, the loose 
pieces at the last. Press them a little and turn 
them out on a dish. Throw a bdchamel sauce over 
the cauliflower (that should now have its original 
shape), grate a little gruy^re or parmesan cheese 
over it, and put into the oven for a few minutes. 

The sauce is made with a lump of butter in a 
small saucepan, a tablespoonful and a half of flour, 
salt and pepper, mix one with the other and add 
half a pint of hot milk, turning the sauce for about 
ten minutes while it boils and becomes as thick as 
cream. 

Chou-fleur a. la Sauce Blanche (Cauliflower) 

is cooked in the same manner, the white sauce being 
thrown over it, if possible in a round dish, as it looks 
more appetising with the sauce surrounding the 
pyramid of cauliflower. 

Cauliflowers can also be made into a salad when 
boiled as indicated, and left to cool. The dressing 
of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper (two spoonfuls of oil 
for one of vinegar), and a little chopped parsley is 
made in the salad bowl and the cauliflowers turned 
into it. 

Petits Pois a la Fran^aise (Green Peas) 

Shell the peas and put them into a saucef)an with 
a lump of butter the size of an egg, and a glass of 
water for every two quarts of the shelled peas. Put 
the saucepan on the fire, mix with a wooden spoon, 
and add a small bouquet of parsley, salt, pepper, and 

74 



Vegetables 

another lump of butter. Peel a dozen small onions 
and add them to the peas. Let them cook for 
about an hour, covering the saucepan with a soup 
plate full of water. Remove the parsley and 
serve. 

Petits Pois au Sucre (Green Peas) 

Shell the peas and cook them as in the preceding 
recipe, with a little water and butter, onions, and 
salt. Add powdered white sugar to taste. It is 
essential to shake the saucepan occasionally, in order 
to prevent the peas attaching themselves to the 
bottom of the pan. It is as well to avoid using a 
spoon, as the peas are liable to be crushed. 

Petits Pois au Lard (Green Peas) 

Cook the peas in the manner indicated above k 
la Frangaise. Cut into small pieces a few slices of 
bacon. Put them into a saucepan on the fire. When 
sufficiently cooked add the peas. 

Petits Pois a la Creme (Green Peas) 

Boil the peas in water with a little salt. When 
tender strain off the water. Take another saucepan 
— earthenware if possible — throw in the peas with a 
lump of butter. Do not let the butter melt too 
quickly. It suffices to put the saucepan on the side 
of the fire to keep the peas warm. When the butter 
is well mixed with the peas, pour into the saucepan 
a cupful of cream ; shake the saucepan and serve. 

75 



French Household Cooking 

Petits Pois k la Parisienne (Green Peas) 

Throw the shelled peas into a saucepan with a 
lump of butter and a little salt. Put the saucepan 
on the fire and mix the peas and butter with a 
wooden spoon. Add ten or twelve small onions, a 
cabbage lettuce, or the heart of a cos lettuce. Let 
them cook for an hour without water, as the lettuce 
will moisten them sufficiently. Add another lump 
of butter and a little sugar, and serve with or 
without the onions. 



Capottes k la Vichy (Carrots) 

After having scraped the carrots, they must be 
cut into thin slices and put into a stew-pan with 
a lump of butter, a little salt, and a little sugar. 
Water is added, just sufficient to cover them, and 
they are then allowed to boil on a quick fire until 
there is no more water left in the pan, and the 
carrots are consequently dry and begin to brown in 
the butter. A pinch of chopped parsley is added, 
and the carrots are served as hot as possible. 



MacMoine de Legumes (Young Carrots, Turnips, 
Onions) 

Scrape a bundle of young carrots and a bundle 
of young turnips ; peel a couple of dozen small 
onions. Place them in separate saucepans with a 
lump of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar. Let 
them brown for a few minutes, turning them with a 

76 



Vegetables 

wooden spoon ; then cover them and let them 
finish cooking. Serve in alternate heaps around 
braised or roasted meat, or mix altogether and 
serve as a vegetable stew, covering them with their 
natural gravy. 

Artichauts k la Paysanne (Globe Artichokes) 

Select large artichokes, place them in boiling 
water with a handful of salt, and let them cook for 
about half an hour. Then strain them. Put a 
small piece of butter, half the size of an egg, into a 
stew-pan, with ten or twelve small onions, two or 
three rashers of bacon cut into cubes, and a small 
spoonful of flour ; turn the onions and bacon on 
all sides with a wooden spoon, and let them brown. 
In the meanwhile cut the artichokes in quarters if 
they are large, or in halves if small, remove the 
" beards," and tie each quarter or half with a thin 
piece of string or cotton. Take the onions and 
bacon from the pan, put the pieces of artichoke in 
their place, and let them colour slightly. Then 
replace the onions and bacon, add a teacupful of 
water, salt and pepper; cover the stew-pan, and 
cook on a slow fire for an hour and a half to two 
hours. Serve the artichokes in a hot dish with the 
contents of the pan poured over them, as a vegetable 
alone. Remove the cotton or string. 

Chicor6e Fris^e (Endive) 

Endive, known as a salad in England, is excellent 
when cooked as a hot vegetable to be eaten alone or 
with meat. In families where economy is studied, 

77 



French Household Cooking 

the heart, or inner portion where the leaves are 
white, is washed and made into a salad with oil and 
vinegar, pepper and salt ; the remainder washed, 
and cooked like spinach. The vegetable known as 
"endive" in France is short and white, something 
like sea-kale in appearance, but thicker and closer. 
Lettuces caii be cooked in the same way. 

Romaine Brais^e (Braised Lettuce) 

Wash a dozen lettuces. Cut off the root. Tie 
each lettuce together and place them in a baking 
pan with a little stock. Cover it and put it into a 
slow oven for a little over half an hour. Salt and 
pepper, and double the lettuces in halves on a hot 
dish. Place a lump of butter in the stock in which 
they have cooked, add the yolk of an egg or a 
little cream, and pour over the lettuces. 

Artiehauts k la Vinaigfrette (Globe Artichokes, 
Cold) 

Boil the artichokes in hot water, letting them 
cook for an hour or more, according to size. When 
the leaves come from the artichoke easily they are 
" done." Strain them, and let them cool. Make a 
sauce of oil and vinegar, salt and pepper — the oil 
and vinegar in equal parts — and serve the artichokes 
whole, one for each person ; the sauce in a sauce- 
boat 



78 



CHAPTER X 

POTATOES 

Pommes de Terre Souffl^es 

There is no equivalent in the English language 
for pommes de terre souffl^es, because there is 
nothing similar in English cookery. Potatoes are 
fried by English or foreign cooks in private kitchens, 
but they never reach the perfect state known as 
souffl^es. In restaurants and some of the big hotels 
where cooking is an art, I should say a fine art, the 
chef will serve a dish of these golden little bags, 
piled symmetrically one on top of the other in pyramid 
form, each a perfect specimen of a pomme de terre 
souffl6e, and the guests will acknowledge that the 
chef is an artist, and that nothing can compare with 
these potatoes from a gastronomico-artistic point of 
view — ^if I may be allowed the expression. And in 
London as in Paris, where these potatoes are served 
as a supper dish by themselves, or as an accompani- 
ment to grilled meats, they are looked upon as 
curiosities, and everybody has a theory of his own as 
to how they are prepared. The general theory that 
the potatoes are submerged in two pans of hot fat is 

79 



French Household Cooking 

correct in a way, but the practice never shows the 
correct result. Cookery books by the score will give 
the recipe for pommes souffl^es, but I have never 
known one single attempt that has proved the exact- 
ness of the methods indicated. If, however, the 
present instructions be followed in the minutest 
details, there will be no difficulty in conjuring a dish 
of potatoes fit for a king, each piece of potato being 
as perfect as those served by the most experienced 
and dearly paid chef. 

The quality of the potato must be what is known 
as " Hollande " in France — and I suppose means a 
Dutch waxy potato in English. The potatoes must 
be selected sound. A deep frying-pan half full of 
fat, a wire skimmer and a metal strainer, a cloth and 
a plate are the "tools." 

Put the pan of fat on the fire — the best fat for 
the purpose is melted suet. Peel five or six large 
potatoes ; trim the edges, and with a sharp knife cut 
them lengthways into slices of equal width, of the 
thickness of two English florins, neither wider nor 
narrower, for in the cutting of the potato lies the 
success of the undertaking. (Amateurs would do 
well to practise cutting before frying.) 

1st. Each slice of potato is then wiped with a 
cloth, and not washed, and thrown into the pan when 
the fat begins to heat. It is essential that at this 
stage the fat be not too warm. A dozen slices may 
be cooked at a time, not more. When sufficiently 
poached the slices will rise to the surface and have 
the appearance of souffles — they will blister a little. 
They may then be removed with the skimmer, one 
by one, and kept warm at the edge of the oven. 

80 



Potatoes 

2nd. The pan of fat is now heated to a greater 
degree, and when smoking and boiling, the poached 
slices are thrown in and quickly turned with the 
skimmer, and in a second the " drying " process is 
effected and each slice becomes a perfect souffle, 
and is removed into the strainer and sprinkled with 
salt, arranged symmetrically on a hot dish, and served. 
These souffle potatoes will keep their shape for hours 
— twenty-four sometimes — if successfully prepared. 

N.B. — An unevenly cut slice will not " swell." A 
too thinly cut slice will brown. The potato must be 
cut with the grain. The science therefore of pommes 
de terre souffl^es lies in the cutting. 

Pommes de Terre Frites (Fried Potatoes) 

Peel the potatoes and cut them into sticks the size 
of a finger of a normal woman's hand (the potato 
should not be very long), wipe them in a cloth. 
Place a pan half full of fat upon the fire. When 
the fat boils and steams throw in the potatoes, turning 
them immediately with the skimmer. When they 
are of a light golden brown remove them with the 
skimmer into a strainer, shake the strainer over a 
bowl to drain the fat, sprinkle with salt, and shake 
again that the salt may touch all the potatoes, and 
serve with or without a few branches of fried 
parsley. 

Pommes de Terre k la Maltre d'Hdtel 

Boil the potatoes in their skins. Peel them and 
cut them into slices, rather less than a quarter of an 
inch thick. Melt a lump of butter in a small sauce- 
Si G 



French Household Cooking 

pan, add a little chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, 
and pour the sauce over the potatoes. 

Pommes de Terre Saut^es (Potatoes) 

Wash the quantity of potatoes required and boil 
them in their skins. Place a lump of butter in a 
frying-pan. When melted, cut the potatoes in round 
slices into the pan ; turn them constantly with the 
skimmer ; when slightly brown Sprinkle them with 
salt and chopped parsley, and serve hot. Good 
dripping can be used instead of butter. 

Omelette aux Pommes de Terre (Potato Omelet) 

Break the eggs into a bowl, two for each person. 
Beat them well with a fork ; add salt and pepper. 
Melt a large lump of butter in a frying-pan. Throw 
in some rounds of boiled potatoes to colour slightly 
as in the preceding recipe, and pour in the eggs. 
When they are set, double the omelette in two as 
explained in the Chapter on Omelettes. 

Pommes de Terre B6ehamel (Potatoes with 
Bechamel Sauee) 

Boil the potatoes in their skins. Peel them and 
cut them into rounds as for pommes de terre sautdes. 
Place them in a dish to keep warm. Put a lump of 
butter into a small saucepan, add a tablespoonful of 
flour, work one into the other, and pour in gradually 
half a pint of boiled milk, stirring constantly on the 
fire. Salt and pepper this sauce and let it boil gently 
for ten minutes ; it should be of the thickness of 

82 



Potatoes 

cream. Pour it over thef potatoes and serve with a 
sprinkling of chopped parsley and chervil. This 
quantity of sauce is for a small dish of potatoes, 
and can be served with or without the herbs. 

Pommes de Terre au Lard (Potatoes and Bacon) 

Cut some bacon into cubes or small pieces, fry 
them in a little butter, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a little stock or water, a tumbler of ordinary red 
wine, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, one or two 
onions, and pepper. When they begin to boil add 
potatoes that have been peeled and washed, and cut 
into quarters or eighths, according to size. Cover the 
stew-pan and cook for about forty minutes. Remove 
the herbs before serving. 

Equally good if made without onions or herbs. 

Croquettes of Potatoes 

Boil the potatoes in their skins. Peel them when 
sufficiently cooked. Drain them, and mash them 
with a lump of butter ; add three eggs, salt, and 
pepper ; stir well with a wooden spoon. Roll them 
into croquettes, long or round. Break an egg into 
a soup plate, with a pinch of salt ; into another plate 
pour some grated bread-crumbs. Roll the croquettes 
first in the egg and then in the bread-crumbs, and 
fry a golden brown. 



83 



CHAPTER XI 

OMELETTES AND EGGS GENERALLY 

How to make an Omelette 

I employ the French word advisedly, because the 
English omelet has no relation to the French. The 
plainest of French cooks makes an omelette, I may 
say, intuitively. She has a light hand, and it is her 
nature to beat lightly, to work quickly, and an 
omelette must be made quickly. Some people 
imagine that the number of eggs is limited, and that 
more than twelve should never be beaten together. 
To a certain extent this is correct, but only to a 
certain extent, — the extent of the pan. An omelette 
of more than twelve eggs cannot be made in a pan 
of the ordinary dimensions. In fact there is no 
limit to the size of an omelette if the pan is of equal 
capacity. In the restaurants the omelette pans are 
rigorously kept for the purpose of this particular 
dish, and are merely wiped after they have been 
used ; never washed. The eggs have not soiled it, 
and the cook considers it essential that the pan 
should remain "fat" ii^as). But in the ordinary 
household where the same pan is used to cook a 

84 



Omelettes and Eggs generally 

steak or fry potatoes, it is indispensable to wash 
it. A word more and we will begin operations. 
The pan should be thick, and the handle short; 
and a fierce fire cooks an omelette better than a 
dull one. 

For an omelette of six or eight eggs, break them 
into a bowl, add salt and pepper, and beat them 
with a fork for about a minute, not longer as a rule. 
When the eggs are sufficiently beaten they "run" 
ofT the fork in a homogeneous liquid, without any 
glutinous appearance. It is not necessary to beat 
for several minutes, with the idea that the more the 
eggs are beaten the lighter the omelette. This is a 
great mistake, as too much beating causes eggs to 
lose their consistency. It is, however, better to beat 
too much than too little. 

Place the pan on the fire to warm it, put in a 
small piece of butter — about the size of an egg for 
an omelette of six or eight. Add the contents of 
the bowl when the butter steams. If this precaution 
is taken, the omelette will not catch, as the high 
temperature of the butter isolates the eggs. It is 
therefore a mistake to shake the eggs directly they 
are poured into the pan. But a second or two later 
the fork must be passed round the sides of the pan 
to loosen the eggs, and then they are worked in all 
directions with the back of the fork as if they were 
scrambled. When they are sufficiently cooked they 
look in fact almost like scrambled eggs ; but now the 
omelette is shaken on to one side of the pan, and 
with the fork one half is folded on the other and 
slid on to the dish. The shape of the omelette 
is thus obtained without difficulty, and the heat 

8S 



French Household Cooking 

of one half just finishes the cooking of the other 
as it rests upon it 

Omelette Souffl^e (Sweet) 

Take two bowls. Put into one oi them three 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar ; into the other a pinch 
of salt. Break five eggs, separate the yolks, and 
drop one yolk at a time into the bowl containing the 
sugar ; whip them well with a wooden spoon and 
they become creamy like a mayonnaise. Add a 
little powdered vanilla to another tablespoonful of 
sugar, and mix with the yolks. Put the whites of 
the eggs into the bowl containing the salt and whip 
into a stiff froth. Mix with the yolks as lightly 
as possible, and pour the contents into a buttered 
dish in the shape of a pyramid. Cover it with 
sifted white sugar and leave it for three or four 
minutes on the side of the stove. Then put it into 
the oven for ten to twelve minutes, turning the dish 
occasionally to colour it on all sides. Make two or 
three incisions with a knife and serve immediately. 
This omelette must be eaten as soon as it is cooked, 
or it loses both its shape and its delicacy. 

Another Omelette Souffl^e 

There are several variations on the theme of 
omelettes. One of the most popular is to add five 
macaroons, pounded to powder, to the yolks of the 
eggs, when they have been well amalgamated with 
the sugar. The same care must be taken in adding 
the stiffly beaten whites as in the preceding, and 

86 



Omelettes and Eggs generally 

the omelette is poured into a buttered mould. A 
cake mould serves the purpose excellently. Let it 
bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. A 
serviette is pinned around the mould, as the omelette 
cannot be turned out. These omelettes can also be 
made in a souffle dish. It is, however, difficult to 
say how long an omelette takes to bake, as every- 
thing depends on the heat of the oven. In order 
to ensure success, the best way is to look in and 
note that when it is sufficiently " raised " it is ready 
for table. In the preceding recipe the time calculated 
for the cooking of the omelette is shorter, because 
it comes into direct contact with the heat of the 
oven. 

Omelette au Lard (Bacon Omelet) 

Cut two or three rashers of bacon, into small 
pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a small piece 
of butter. Let them colour on both sides. In the 
meanwhile break six eggs into a bowl, salt and 
pepper plentifully, beat them with a fork until well 
mixed, and pour them into the frying-pan that 
contains the bacon. Make the omelette in the 
ordinary way, passing the knife round the edge of 
the pan to prevent the eggs from sticking, add a 
little butter if the pan is not sufficiently " fat " ; 
shake one half of the omelette on to the other when 
the eggs begin to " set," and serve on a hot dish. 

Omelette au Fromage (Cheese Omelet) 

Beat the number of eggs required for an omelette 
(generally two for each person) with salt and pepper 

87 



French Household Cooking 

in a bowl ; add two or three spoonfuls of grated 
gruyfcre cheese ; mix well and pour into the pan, 
following the indications in the preceding recipes. 
If there is not sufficient butter in the pan, while the 
omelette is cooking, a little may be added by slightly 
lifting the edge with a knife and dropping it 
beneath. 

Omelette aux fines herbes (Herb Omelet) 

A sprinkling of chopped parsley and chervil, or 
parsley, chervil, and chives, beaten with the eggs 
before they are placed in the pan, make an 
" omelette aux fines herbes," 



Omelette aux Tomates (Omelet with Tomatoes) 

Break the eggs into a bowl, with salt and pepper ; 
beat them for a few minutes with a fork, place the 
omelette pan on the fire to warm, add a lump of 
butter. When the butter steams pour in the eggs. 
Make little incisions with a fork to let the heat reach 
the eggs in all parts ; pass a knife round the edge 
of the pan to prevent the eggs from " sticking " ; 
fold one half on the other, as soon as they begin to 
get firm, and shake the omelette on to a hot dish. 
Pour over it a good tomato sauce made according 
to the simple recipe in the Chapter on Sauces. 

Omelette k I'ltalienne (Italian Omelet) 

This omelette is generally made with the remainder 
of a dish of macaroni, and will be found an excellent 

88 



Omelettes and Eggs generally 

manner of utilising that which in some households 
is thrown away. "What can I do with cold 
macaroni?" says the inexperienced cook. Read 
and you will know. The macaroni, which has been 
flavoured with butter, cheese, and sometimes with 
tomatoes, is cut into small pieces and thrown into 
the omelette pan in the steaming butter, after the 
eggs have been poured in. The same process of 
folding follows, and a nutritious appetising omelette 
is the result. 

An Extra Word on Omelettes 

An omelette can be made with an unlimited supply 
of eggs, given the adequate size of the pan ; but 
Brillat-Savarin, the expert in all matters dealing 
with the preparation of food to be eaten by in- 
telligent men, tells us that an omelette for epicures 
should never be made with more than twelve eggs. 
If a larger number of eggs is required, make more 
omelettes. And this will be found excellent advice. 

(Eufs k la Creme (Eggs) 

Boil a dozen eggs hard (about seven minutes is 
the time allowed when the water boils). Remove 
them from the boiling water, and steep them in cold 
water to facilitate the shelling. Break the shells 
and cut the eggs into halves. Place them points 
upward on an entree dish. While the eggs have 
been boiling put a lump of butter, the size of the 
largest egg, into a small saucepan, with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, a good pinch of salt, and pepper. 
Mix well together with a wooden spoon, warm a 

89 



French Household Cooking 

pint of milk in another saucepan and pour it into 
the butter and flour, turning constantly with the 
spoon for a quarter of an hour on a moderate fire. 
Taste the sauce (which should be white, and as 
thick as cream), and add salt if necessary, as it 
must be remembered that the eggs have not been 
cooked with salt Pour the sauce over the eggs 
and serve. 

(Eufs au Fromage (Eggs) 

Put a quarter of a pound of grated gruy^re cheese 
into a small saucepan with a piece of butter half the 
size of an egg, chop parsley and chives, put in a little 
nutmeg and half a glass of milk or ordinary white 
wine. Boil on a moderate fire, turning the contents 
of the saucepan with a wooden spoon until the 
cheese is melted. Break six eggs into a bowl, salt 
and pepper and throw them into the melted cheese, 
and cook them like scrambled eggs, on a slow fire. 
Serve in the centre of a dish surrounded with toasted 
or fried pieces of bread, diamond-shaped. 

CEufs au Pain (Eggs) 

Put half a handful of crumbled bread into a 
saucepan with a teacupful of cream, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg. When the bread is swollen with the cream, 
break six or eight eggs, beat them, and make an 
omelette. 

(Eufs k I'Aurope (Eggs) 

Boil a dozen eggs — for six people. When they 
are hard, throw them into cold water, in order to 

90 



Omelettes and Eggs generally 

remove the shells easily. Divide the white from the 
yolk and chop each separately. Put a lump of butter 
and a tablespoonful of flour into a small sauce- 
pan, stir the flour into the butter, add a glass of milk, 
and mix constantly on the fire. When smooth and 
creamy add a piece of fresh butter, salt and pepper. 
Put a layer of this sauce into a deep dish, cover it 
with a layer of yolks and a layer of whites, another 
layer of salt, and so on ; the yolks must be uppermost ; 
then put the dish into the oven to colour, 

(Eufs mollets Bechamel (Eggs) 

Boil a given quantity of eggs for a little under 
five minutes, the time to set them firmly without 
hardening. Steep them in cold water to facilitate 
the removing of the shells ; place the eggs whole in 
a dish, and pour a bechamel sauce over them. Serve 
hot (See Chapter on Sauces.) 

CEufs Bretons (Eggs) 

Make a good tomato sauce. (See Chapter on 
Sauces.) Pour it into the centre of a round dish, and 
keep it warm on the edge of the stove or over the 
smallest of gas flames. Place as much dripping in 
a pan, on the fire, as will nearly fill the pan when 
the fat is melted. Break the quantity of eggs 
required, one or two for each person, into a cup, one 
at a time, and throw each egg into the fat when it 
steams. With the skimmer cover the yolk with the 
white, and when the egg begins to brown turn it 
carefully on the other side for a second or two. 
Remove it with the skimmer, letting the fat drain 

91 



French Household Cooking 

through the holes over the pan ; place each egg 
around the tomato sauce, and sprinkle with a little 
salt and pepper before serving. This is an excellent 
luncheon dish. 

(Eufs auz Tomates (Eggs) 

Poach the eggs and pour over them a tomato 
sauce. Or pour the tomato sauce into the dish that 
serves to cook eggs, put this dish upon the fire and 
break the eggs into it (See Chapter on Sauces for 
Tomato Sauce.) 

(Eufs aux Artiehauts (Eggs and Artichokes) 

Place a large saucepan full of hot water on the 
fire ; let it boil ; throw into it a handful of salt. 
Boil as many artichokes as there are guests. When 
the leaves come away easily, the artichokes are 
cooked. Remove the leaves and the "beard" and 
put the " fonds," one next the other, into a buttered 
dish. Break an egg into each fond, add salt and 
pepper, and cook them in the oven. 

(Eufs au Beuire Noir (Eggs) 

Put a frying-pan on the fire to heat ; throw in 
a lump of butter ; break the eggs therein when the 
butter has melted. Remove the eggs to a hot dish (a 
flat, round one is the most appetising for these eggs), 
add a little more butter, if necessary, in the frying- 
pan ; let it colour without burning ; take it off the 
fire, add a spoonful or two of vinegar and a few 
capers. Salt and pepper and pour over the eggs. 

92 



Omelettes £uid Eggs generally 

(Eufs sur le Plat (Eggs) 

Melt a lump of butter in an egg dish ; break the 
eggs upon the butter, salt and pepper, and serve as 
soon as the white has "set." The eggs must be 
perfectly fresh or the yolks will not remain intact. 
Serve immediately or the eggs become hard and 
leathery. If an egg dish is not to hand, a frying-pan 
can be used ; but it is advisable to procure a dish of 
this description from any earthenware dep6t, as the 
eggs look prettier in their white dish, and are served 
hotter when not removed from the dish in which they 
were cooked. 



(Eufs Frits (Eggs) 

Put a bowlful of dripping into a frying-pan. 
Put it on the fire to warm. When " smoking hot " 
break the eggs therein, salt and pepper, and in a 
few seconds turn the eggs with the straining spoon. 
Let the oil filter through, and serve on a hot dish, 
in a pyramid, with a sprinkling of fried parsley. 

(Eufs Farcis (Cold Eggs) 

Boil some eggs hard ; let them cool ; peel 
them ; cut them lengthways ; remove the yolks 
carefully and mash them with a little salad oil, 
salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and chives. Fill the 
halves of the whites of each egg with this mixture ; 
place them in a dish, one next the other ; make a 
little salad dressing with two spoonfuls of oil and one 
of vinegar ; add the remainder of the yolks that has 

93 



French Household Cooking 

not filled the whites, and pour the dressing over the 
dish of eggs. 

(Eufs Farcis (Hot Eggs) 

Boil the eggs hard ; peel them and cut them 
lengthways in halves ; remove the yolks and mash 
them with an equal quantity of butter, some chopped 
herbs, and a little bread soaked in milk. Salt and 
pepper, and fill the white halves with this mixture. 
Butter a dish and add the remainder of the yolks ; 
place the eggs in the dish, sprinkle with grated 
bread, pour a little melted butter over them, and put 
them into a moderate oven for half an hour. 

(Eufs Brouill^s (Eggs) 

Warm a lump of butter in a low saucepan. 
Break the eggs into a bowl, salt and pepper ; beat 
them for a second with a fork ; pour them into the 
melted butter and turn them constantly with a 
wooden spoon, until they begin to settle into little 
lumps. The fire must not be too fierce, or the eggs 
will burn. 

(Eufs Brouill^s au Fromage (Scrambled Eggs and 
Cheese) 

The eggs are scrambled as in the preceding 
recipe. Just before they are thickening in the 
saucepan, add about a quarter of a pound of grated 
cheese to eight or ten eggs. 



94 



Omelettes and Eggs generally 

(Eufs Brouill^s aux Champignons (Scrambled Eggs 
and Mushrooms) 

Wash some button mushrooms, peel them and 
chop them into small pieces. Put a lump of butter 
into a low saucepan ; throw in the mushrooms. 
When they are sufficiently cooked— ^in about three 
minutes — add a little more butter if necessary, and 
the eggs that you will have broken into a bowl, 
and mix with salt and pepper. Turn all together in 
the saucepan with a wooden spoon until the eggs 
thicken. Serve when not too firm. 

Amateur cooks sometimes complain that scram- 
bled eggs have a grey unpleasant colour. This curious 
"grey unpleasant colour" only occurs when the 
saucepan in which the eggs have been scrambled is 
not perfectly clean. 

(Eufs Brouill^s aux Pointes d'Asperges (Scrambled 
Eggs and Asparagus Points) 

Cut the hard portion of a small bundle of 
asparagus from the fresh green points. Put a 
handful of salt into a saucepan full of hot water. 
When the water boils bind the bundle of green points 
together and throw them into the saucepan. After a 
second or two remove them, cut them into small pieces, 
and throw them into a low saucepan with a lump 
of butter ; add the eggs prepared for scrambling, with 
a good pinch of salt and pepper, and turn them 
together with a wooden spoon until they have 
sufficiently thickened. 

95 



French Household Cooking 

(Eufs aux Croutons (Eggs and Fried Bread) 

Melt a little butter in a low saucepan ; cut a slice 
of bread into small cubes, throw them into the butter. 
Pour the eggs into the same saucepan and mix like 
scrambled eggs. 

(Eufs k la Neige (Sweet Snowball Eggs) 

Place a quart of milk in a saucepan on the fire 
with the rind of a lemon or a little vanilla, and 
sufHcient white sugar to sweeten. 

Break six eggs, separating the white from the 
yolk. Put three tablespoonfuls of powdered white 
sugar on a plate. Beat the whites of the eggs into 
a stiff froth, adding a small pinch of salt. When 
sufficiently stiff add the sugar and mix briskly. 
Take a tablespoonful of this mixture and throw it 
into the boiling milk in the saucepan ; turn it three 
minutes later ; remove it with a skimmer and place 
it on a dish. Take as many spoonfuls of the white 
of egg as remain and cook them in a similar 
manner, three or four at a time. (If the white has 
been beaten sufficiently stiffly, when cooked each 
spoonful will be a compact mass.) Dress the 
snowballs in a pyramid on a dish. Pour the 
remainder of the milk from the saucepan into the 
yolks of the eggs ; put this mixture into another 
saucepan on the fire, turn it constantly with a spoon, 
and let it thicken without boiling. Pass it through 
a strainer, and when cold pour it over the snowballs 
in the dish. 

96 



CHAPTER XII 

MACARONI AND RICE 

To have a palatable dish of macaroni do not select a 
make of inferior quality. There is only a difference 
of a penny or so in the price per pound, and it is not 
really economising to buy the cheaper sort. 

Put a saucepan full of water on the fire with a 
handful of salt. When it boils break the macaroni 
into it, in pieces of about a finger-length. Let it 
boil for twenty minutes, not longer, or the macaroni 
will become pasty. Strain it, placing the colander 
on another saucepan or receptacle large enough to 
hold the water, and pour the contents of the sauce- 
pan in which the macaroni has boiled into the 
colander. Warm a dish, and pour the macaroni into 
it. Add quickly a lump of butter divided into small 
pieces, and mix it with the macaroni with a spoon 
and fork ; add also a quarter of a pound of grated 
gruyfere cheese to half a pound of macaroni. In 
most cookery books you are told it is essential to 
mix parmesan and gruyfere cheeses to have the 
required flavour, but in the majority of French 
kitchens excellent dishes of macaroni are prepared 

97 H 



French Household Cooking 

with gruyfere cheese alone. Sprinkle a little more 
salt if necessary, and a little pepper, and serve. The 
butter and cheese are mixed with the macaroni in 
the dish, not in the saucepan on the fire. 

Macaroni a la Milanaise 

The macaroni is boiled as in the preceding 
recipe. During the twenty minutes required to 
bring it to the necessary point, there is ample 
time to make the sauce that is to season it. Take a 
couple of ripe tomatoes, wipe them carefully with a 
fine cloth in order to remove every particle of dust, 
cut them into halves and place them in a small sauce- 
pan with a little butter, two or three onions cut into 
pieces, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf, 
tied together, a good teaspoonful of salt, and about 
half that quantity of pepper. Pass this mixture 
through a strainer when the tomatoes are cooked ; 
put a fresh piece of butter into another small sauce- 
pan ; add a tablespoonful of flour and incorporate 
with a wooden spoon ; pour in the tomato pur6e 
slowly, turning constantly with a spoon ; add a little 
hot water if the sauce is too thick. Turn the 
macaroni from the saucepan into the colander, and 
thence on to the dish, and pour the sauce over it, 
mixing it well so that every piece of the macaroni 
is coloured red. Serve with grated gruy^re and 
parmesan mixed, or with gruy^re alone. 

Macaroni k la Creme 

Boil the macaroni as already indicated. Put a 
small saucepan on the fire with a lump of butter 

98 



Macaroni and Rice 

no smaller than an egg; when the butter melts, 
remove the saucepan to the side and add a table- 
spoonful of flour, and work one into the other with 
the indispensable wooden spoon. Moisten with a 
tumblerful of boiling milk, turning all the time. 
Let it cook for about ten minutes, whipping it with 
the egg whisk to prevent the forming of little lumps 
that may occur with an inexperienced hand. Now 
add a quarter of a pound of grated gruy^re cheese 
to the boiling mixture, with a sufficient quantity of 
salt and pepper to taste ; pour the macaroni back 
again into the saucepan in which it boiled — which 
is now empty as the water has been strained off — 
and pour the white sauce upon it. Mix well and 
serve on a hot dish. For a pound of macaroni 
the quantities of butter, milk, flour, and cheese must 
be increased. 

Nouilles aux Anchois 

NouiUes are a kind of macaroni made with eggs 
and eaten as soon as they are prepared. Macaroni, 
on the other hand, is never eaten quite fresh, and 
there is no object in doing so, as it contains nothing 
that will spoil by keeping, although there is a limit 
to the keeping of macaroni. The nouilles are 
thrown into a saucepan full of boiling water with a 
handful of salt. In about a quarter of an hour they 
are cooked, but it is easy to ascertain at what 
moment to remove them from the water by tasting 
if sufficiently soft. While the nouilles are boiling, 
clean and chop a dozen Gorgona anchovies ; put a 
lump of butter into a small saucepan, and when hot 

99 



French Household Cooking 

throw in the anchovies. Pass them through a fine 
hair sieve. Strain the nouilles and put them on a 
hot dish, with a quarter of a pound of grated gruy^re 
cheese to half a pound of nouilles, and a little fresh 
butter divided into small pieces ; mix well with a 
fork and spoon and pour in the anchovies. 

Risotto (Rice k I'ltalienne) 

Put a handful of salt into a saucepan full of 
water. Put the saucepan on the fire, and when the 
water is hot, but not boiling, throw in the rice. Let 
it boil until the grains are cooked (about twenty 
minutes). Strain the rice, pouring the contents of 
the saucepan into a strainer. Put a sufficient 
quantity of butter into a frying-pan ; when the butter 
is melted add the rice and mix well together for 
two or three minutes. Pour the rice into a dish 
and cover abundantly with grated parmesan cheese. 

Another Risotto (Rice a la Milanaise) 

Place a lump of butter into a saucepan, when 
melted throw in the rice (about half a pound for 
four people). Mix rapidly with a wooden spoon to 
prevent burning. When it begins to colour, moisten 
with good stock, little by little as required, until the 
rice is quite cooked — about twenty-five minutes is 
the time generally calculated, but some qualities of 
rice require a few minutes more or less. At all 
events the grains must be intact and not " pappy," 
Add a teaspoonful of meat extract. Mix with it a 
couple of pinches of saffiron, salt and pepper, and 



Macaroni and Rice 

grated parmesan cheese. A quarter of a pound of 
cheese to half a pound of rice is the recognised 
quantity. A little is mixed with the rice and the 
remainder served separately, that each guest may 
take as much or as little as he pleases. 

An extra word on Rice 

By throwing the rice into hot butter in a pan 
before adding water to cook it, each grain of rice 
remains intact. 



Gnocchi k I'ltalienne 

Ingredients : 

One and a half pints of milk. 

A little over a quarter of a pound of butter. 

Half a pound of semolina. 

Five eggs. 

Quarter of a pound grated gruy^re cheese. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Salt, pepper, nutmeg. 
Pour a pint of milk into a saucepan with a 
quarter of a pound of butter. When boiling, add 
the semolina, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. 
Turn it with a wooden spoon until the paste comes 
away freely from the saucepan. Remove this 
mixture to the corner of the stove and add the eggs 
one by one, beating each well into the paste. Then 
add the greater part of the grated cheese. Stir it 
well and turn it out on to a board. Cut the paste 
into small pieces about an inch square. Put a 
saucepan of hot water on the fire with a handful of 



French Household Cooking 

salt. When the water boils, throw in the gnocchi 
or small pieces of paste ; let them boil for four 
minutes ; remove them into a strainer, and dip them 
into cold water. Let them drain. In the mean- 
while make a white sauce with butter, flour, and 
boiling milk (as explained in the Chapter on Sauces). 
Place the gnocchi in a buttered dish, cover them 
with the sauce, sprinkling them with the remainder 
of the grated cheese, put them into a quick oven, and 
serve as soon as they have risen. 



loa 



CHAPTER XIII 

SWEET DISHES — ICES 

Pouding au Caramel (Bread Padding) 

The simplest of puddings, the most easily made, 
inexpensive, and excellent, is the bread pudding 
made by the experienced French cook. 

For a quart mould, boil a quart of milk, flavoured 
with a little lemon peel, just a small quantity cut 
finely from a lemon. In the meantime, break a 
couple of thick slices of white bread, without the 
crust, into a basin ; add sufficient white sugar to 
sweeten, and pour the boiling milk over the bread. 
While this is softening, put the metal mould upon 
the fire with a little water, and half-a-dozen lumps 
of white sugar to make the caramel. This sugar 
will take a few minutes' browning, and during this 
operation break four eggs into a bowl and beat 
them well ; pass the bread and milk in the basin 
through a colander with a wooden pestle into 
another basin ; add the eggs, stirring them all the 
time to mix them well with the bread. Then 
remove the mould from the fire and shake the brown 

103 



French Household Cooking 

melted sugar over the sides of the mould, until every 
part of the interior is covered with a brown coating. 
Turn the mould quickly and let the cold water from 
the tap run upon the bottom of it to cool the con- 
tents. In a minute the sugar begins to crackle and 
the caramel is fixed. Now pour the contents of the 
basin into the mould and bake for half an hour. 
Let it cool, and empty it on the dish to be served 
to table. In order to ascertain if the pudding is 
sufficiently cooked, pass the blade of a knife down 
the centre. If the knife bears the smallest particle 
of a smear upon it, the pudding must bake a little 
longer. It sometimes occurs that a gas fire is used 
for cooking purposes, then the pudding is coloured 
under the portion employed for grilling, and when 
the top is brown the mould is set into a saucepan of 
boiling water, and the pudding finishes cooking in 
what is called a " Bainmarie." But the hot oven is 
the simplest receptacle, and there the pudding is 
cooked in less time. 

Pains Perdus (Entremets) 

A favourite dish with old and young, quickly 
made and appreciated by economical housekeepers. 

Cut a number of slices of bread about half an 
inch thick from a stale loaf; remove the crust and 
give them all an equal shape, round or square, oval 
or triangular. As a rule the square-shaped slices 
are most practical. Boil a sufficient quantity of 
milk to soak them, according to the number of 
slices. Sugar the milk and flavour it with vanilla 
or lemon, and when cold pour it into a deep dish 
104 



Sweet Dishes — Ices 

and add the bread. Let the milk soak well into 
each slice, then drain on a clean cloth. Beat an egg 
in a bowl and dip each slice therein, and fry in the 
following manner : — Place a frying-pan on the fire 
to warm, put into it sufficient butter to cover the 
surface ; when the butter smokes place the slices of 
egg-covered bread side by side in the pan, but not 
close enough to touch ; when they are browned on 
one side turn them on the other. Sift powdered 
sugar upon each slice as it is removed from the pan. 
Dress in a circle, one piece overlapping the other, 
and fill the interior with jam or marmalade. Serve 
as hot as possible. 

Souffle au Chocolat (Chocolate Souffl^) 

Three tablets of chocolate, a glass of milk, six 
whites of eggs, three yolks, a tablespoonful of flour, 
sugar, salt, and vanilla. 

Dissolve the chocolate in a saucepan on a 
moderate fire, with a little milk, without letting it 
boil. Mix three spoonfuls of sugar in another sauce- 
pan, with the three yolks and a little vanilla. 
When this mixture becomes smooth like a cream, 
add the tablespoonful of flour, followed by the milk 
that has been boiled, the chocolate, and a pinch of 
salt Put the saucepan containing these different 
ingredients upon the fire, and remove it when boiling. 
Pour it into another vessel in order to cool it, and in 
the meanwhile beat the whites of the eggs into a stiff 
froth with a little sugar. Mix the whites carefully 
with the chocolate mixture when the latter is cold. 
Butter ever so lightly a souffle mould, pour the 

105 



French Household Cooking 

preparation into it until the mould is about half-full, 
to leave space for the souffld to rise, and put it into 
the oven for about twenty minutes or more, accord- 
ing to the heat of the oven. In order to judge of 
the necessary heat to cook a souffle, try it with a 
piece of paper, that should brown in the lightest of 
tints. Serve the souffle as soon as it has risen and 
is firm. 



Souffle aux Abpicots (Apricot SoufB6) 

This is a sweet dish that takes about ten minutes 
to prepare. Select one pound of ripe apricots of 
ordinary size, giving about seven to the pound. 
Peel them, cut them in halves, and mash them with 
a silver fork, adding a teaspoonful of kirsch. Chop 
the kernels as fine as possible and mix them with 
the apricot pur6e. Beat the white of three fresh 
eggs to a stiff froth, and gradually add three tea- 
spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Mix the apricots 
with the eggs, butter a souffl6 dish ever so lightly, 
pour in the mixture, and put into the oven for about 
ten minutes. Serve immediately the souffle is a 
light brown colour. The oven should not be too 
hot. 

Pudding' k la Flory (a Paris Pudding) 

Beat the yolks of four eggs with a little over a 
quarter of a pound of white powdered sugar, a pinch 
of powdered vanilla, and half a pint of milk. Place 
this mixture in a saucepan on the fire and let it 
thicken to a cream, turning it constantly with a 

io6 



Sweet Dishes — Ices 

wooden spoon, but do not let it boil. Remove it 
from the fire, and add six leaves of gelatine that 
have been soaked in cold water. Pour this cream 
through a fine strainer into a basin and let it cool. 
When nearly " set," add a cupful of whipped cream, 
and pour a little of this mixture into a mould on 
ice. Add a layer of sponge-cakes (" fingers " if 
possible) that have soaked in kirsch or rum, and a 
little preserved fruit cut into cubes, or some fresh 
strawberries. Cover this with another layer of cream 
and another of sponge-cake and fruit until the 
mould is full ; add a last layer of cream. When 
this pudding is quite " set " on ice, turn it out on to 
a small fringed serviette or d'oyley on a round dish. 

Riz Maltaise (an excellent Sweet of Rice and 
Oranges) 

Boil a quarter of a pound of rice with the same 
quantity of white sugar in a pint of milk with a few 
strips of the rind of an orange, a small piece of 
butter, and a pinch of salt. When the rice is well 
boiled, remove the orange rind, add four leaves of 
gelatine — previously soaked in a little cold milk — a 
cupful of double cream, and a couple of drops of 
cochineal to colour a light pink. Oil a mould with 
salad oil — not butter, as it is to be iced — decorate it 
with strips of orange rind, cut as thin as possible, 
that have boiled a minute or so in water ; pour the 
rice into the mould, let it " set " on ice ; then turn it 
out, and decorate the top with " quarters " of orange 
soaked in kirsch. Make a sauce with a few 
spoonfuls of apricot jam in a small cupful of rum. 

107 



French Household Cooking 

Decorate the rice at the base, when on the dish, with 
" quarters " of orange steeped in kirsch, one over- 
lapping the other, and pour the sauce around it — 
not over it 



Pommes Li^es (Apples) 

Make a syrup with sugar, water, and vanilla ; when 
it boils throw into the saucepan half-a-dozen apples, 
cut into quarters and peeled. In another saucepan 
boil a pint of milk with three tablespoonfuls of 
tapioca. When the tapioca and apples are cooked, 
take a deep dish and pour half the tapioca into it ; 
cover it with a layer of apples, and then add the 
remainder of the tapioca. Put it into the oven. 
Make a syrup of apricot jam and the juice from the 
apples, and pour it over the surface and serve. 

Pommes k la Chateaubriand (Apples) 

Peel a dozen Canada apples, half-way down 
only ; remove the cores with the usual little instru- 
ment without breaking the fruit, and place each 
apple in a baking-pan in a quick oven. In each 
cavity put a small piece of butter, a pinch of sugar, 
and a little white wine or water. Baste them 
occasionally. When cooked, place them on a dish, 
and fill each apple with red currant jelly ; mix two 
or three spoonfuls with the juice in the pan, adding 
a little water if necessary. Pour this sauce over the 
apples, and serve hot 



1 08 



Sweet Dishes — Ices 

Poires k la Cond6 (Pears and Rice) 

Cut some pears into halves, peel them and remove 
the pips ; cook them in a thin syrup with half a 
stick of vanilla. In the meanwhile boil half a cupful 
of rice in milk, with a small piece of butter, sugar, 
and a little vanilla. When the rice is cooked place 
it in a border mould, and cover it with a buttered 
paper. Keep it warm. When ready to serve turn 
out the rice on a round dish ; arrange the pears in 
a wreath upon the rice, and pour over them an 
apricot sauce flavoured with kirsch. 



Cerises Victoria (Cherries) 

Stone a couple of pounds of cherries. Put half 
a tumbler of cold water in a saucepan, with a little 
over half a pound of sugar, on a quick fire. When 
the sugar has melted, throw in the cherries and let 
them boil for a few minutes. Mix a dessertspoonful 
of arrowroot with a little cold water. Add it to the 
cherries, taking care to shake the saucepan so that 
the syrup be smooth and equally consistent. Pour 
the cherries into small silver or china " casserolles " 
with a little kirsch, brandy, or rum, and set light to 
them. When the arrowroot is added, the cherries 
must not boil any longer, they must merely be kept 
warm as the syrup would be too abundant and not 
sufficiently thick. This dish of cherries can also be 
served in a deep dish and lighted in the same 
manner when serving. 



109 



French Household Cooking 

G&teau Juliette (Chocolate Cake) 

Dissolve four tablets of good chocolate in a little 
hot water, leaving it very thick. Let it cool, and 
add four spoonfuls of butter, eight spoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, two little rolls dried and crushed 
to powder, eight yolks of eggs, eight whites beaten 
to a stiff cream. Butter a round mould, pour in the 
mixture, and put it into the oven for three-quarters 
of an hour. Turn it out and let it get cold. 
Cover the cake with a thick layer of marmalade or 
any sort of jam. Make a sauce of three tablets of 
chocolate, ten spoonfuls of water, four spoonfuls of 
sugar. Boil it, turijing it constantly with a wooden 
spoon. Pour the sauce all over the cake, above, 
beneath, and on all sides. 

Souffle Rothschild 

This is a sweet dish, said to be a favourite with 
King Edward, and always served by the amphitryons 
who have the honour of receiving him. It is so 
simple that the ordinary cook can make it, given the 
necessary care in the quantity and quality of the 
ingredients. Take eight new-laid eggs ; break the 
yolks into one bowl, the whites into another. Beat 
the yolks, adding three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, a pinch of salt, and two liqueur glasses of rum. 
Beat the whites until they rise to a stiff froth. Mix 
one with the other, pouring the whites into the yolks 
with a gentle hand ; add about half a pound of 
candied fruits, cut into small pieces. Pour into a 
souffl6 dish and bake in a moderate oven for ten 

no 



Sweet Dishes — Ices 

minutes. If possible to procure fresh mulberries, 
the souffle Rothschild is sometimes made with this 
fruit instead of candied fruit. The mulberries are 
mixed intact with the beaten eggs. 

A Light Sweet Dish (Lemon Custard M^ringxie) 

For a small pudding to fill the ordinary pie 
dish sufficient for six people the ingredients and 
quantities are : — 

Two oz. of potato (two small potatoes or one 
large). 

Half-pint of milk. 

Two eggs. 

Two lemons, 

A little sugar, a small piece of butter, a 
dash of vanilla. 
Cut the potato into thin slices ; put them into a 
small saucepan on the fire with half the milk. When 
the potato is cooked, whip it with the remainder until 
quite smooth. Pour it into the pie dish, or whatever 
the dish may be that can stand the heat of the oven ; 
add powdered sugar to taste, a little vanilla, a small 
piece of butter, one grated lemon, and the juice of 
two ; break the yolks of two eggs into the same dish 
(retaining the whites in another), and stir all together 
with a fork. Beat each egg into the dish separately. 
Bake in a slow oven for one hour. Ten minutes 
before serving whip the whites of the eggs into a 
stiif froth, adding ^a little powdered sugar and vanilla. 
Remove the dish from the oven and cover the 
contents with these whipped whites. Replace it in 
the oven, leaving the door open, for about ten 



French Household Cooking 

minutes, and serve in the same dish with a serviette 
pinned around it, or encased in a metal dish. This 
pudding can be made in the lining of a souffl6 dish 
and served in the metal casing. But these details 
are unimportant ; the success of the undertaking, 
from the culinary point of view, is the first thing to 
be studied. 

A teaspoonful of desiccated cocoa-nut is an im- 
provement to this pudding, mixed with the in- 
gredients before the whites of the eggs are added. 

Beigrnets de Pommes (Apple Fritters) 

For seven or eight people forty or forty-five 
beignets. Put a little over half a pound of flour 
(nearly three-quarters of a pound) into a salad bowl, 
with a pinch of salt. Make a hole in the centre and 
add the yolks of four eggs (put the whites aside), 
two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, three of brandy. 
Mix lightly with a wooden spoon, always in the 
same direction. Then pour in little by little, 
turning constantly, a little over half a pint of luke- 
warm water. When the paste is quite smooth and 
as thick as cream, after having worked it for about 
twenty minutes, cover the salad bowl with a cloth 
and place it near the fire. Peel some good apples 
(in France the Reinettes are the best for this purpose), 
remove the pips and cores, and cut them into round 
slices about the thickness of a penny piece. Just 
before making the beignets beat the four whites of 
egg to a froth and add them to the paste in the 
salad bowl, with a fifth white in order to make it 
perfect. 



Sweet Dishes — ^Iccs 

Put the frying-pan on the fire with half a pound 
of lard, and when the steam rises from the pan 
throw the rounds of apple into the paste and place 
them one by one (four or five at a time) in the hot 
lard. When the beignets are a light golden colour 
turn them on the other side with a fork, and when 
golden on both sides throw them into a strainer, to 
strain the fat ; powder them with white sugar, and 
serve as hot as possible. 

A Family Cake 

Four eggs. Weigh them and take the same 
weight in flour, in powdered sugar, and in butter. 
Break the eggs, separating the whites from the yolks. 
Mix the powdered sugar with the yolks, add the 
butter that has been warmed and melted to a paste, 
the juice of a lemon, and finally the flour. Mix well 
with a wooden spoon and then beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff" froth, and incorporate them with the 
other ingredients, introducing, however, the whites 
so carefully that they quite disappear beneath the 
surface. Then butter a mould, half fill it with this 
preparation, and bake it in a moderate oven for 
one hour. The cake must rise to the extent of the 
mould. 

Madeleines 

These little cakes are made with a given 
quantity of eggs (four, six, eight, according to 
the number of cakes required) and the weight of the 
eggs in flour, sugar, and butter. They are mixed 
with a wooden spoon in the same way as in the 
113 I 



French Household Cooking 

" Family Cake," but the whites of the eggs are added 
at the same time as the yolks without any further 
preparation. Special moulds are used for madeleines 
with small indented lines. Each mould is filled 
with the paste, and baked for three-quarters of an 
hour in a moderately heated oven. A pinch of salt 
is added to the mixture of eggs, butter, sugar, and 
flour. 

Ices 

The making of ices is one of the simplest of 
operations, given an ice machine. And as the 
ordinary ice pudding is not an expensive affair, it 
will be found interesting to follow exactly the 
methods in use in French families, where the cook 
is merely the homely person who assists in the 
housework. 

Vanilla Ice 

Half a pound of sugar. Six yolks of eggs. One 
stick of vanilla. One quart of milk. 

Put the milk, sugar, and vanilla into a saucepan 
on the fire. When boiling, pour it on to the yolks 
that have been beaten in a bowl, mixing them 
quickly with a wooden spoon. Pass this mixture 
through a hair sieve and let it cool. Three hours 
before serving, pour this custard into the centre of 
the ice machine, and surround it with six or eight 
pounds of rough ice broken into fine pieces, and two 
pounds of coarse salt. Turn the handle for about 
half an hour, until the ice "sets." Then take it 
out with a spoon and put it into a mould. Cover 

114 



Sweet Dishes — Ices 

the mould with buttered paper before affixing the 
cover, and put the mould into the machine again. 

It is easy to know when the ice is " setting," as 
the handle becomes more and more difficult to work. 
Turn the ice in the mould on to a round dish upon 
a napkin or a fancy d'oyley. 

Coffee Ice 

The same as the vanilla ice, without the vanilla. 
In its place a little essence of coffee. 

Chocolate Ice 

The same as the vanilla ice, but instead of vanilla 
dissolve eight tablets of chocolate in a little water, 
which you add to the mixture of eggs, milk, and sugar 
before passing it through the sieve. 

Bombe Printaniere 

Make a vanilla ice in the manner indicated ; add, 
just before putting it into the mould, candied fruits, 
chopped fine, that have been impregnated with 
kirsch. 

Bombe Marquise 

Make a vanilla ice and put it into a mould. Grate 
a little chocolate, and just before serving remove a 
portion with a spoon, and fill the vacuum with the 
grated chocolate. 



"S 



French Household Cooking 

Soufla^ Surprise 

A sure success at a dinner-party, the souffle 
surprise is one of the least complicated of dishes. 
It requires a light hand and plenty of courage. 
Why? Simply because this "sweet" is composed 
of ice and eggs, and the ice covered with the eggs 
is put into a hot oven. Here is the recipe, and if 
carefully followed there is no possibility of a failure. 
For a party of six or eight place a low -shaped 
vanilla ice in a silver entree dish, in the centre. 
Break six eggs, keeping the yolks and whites 
separate. Sweeten the yolks and flavour with 
vanilla ; beat them for a few minutes, until well 
mixed one with the other ; beat the whites into a 
stiff froth. Mix the yolks and whites lightly 
together and pour them over the ice, masking the 
entire dish. Let the oven be red-hot. Take your 
courage in your two hands (as the French say), and 
slip the dish into the oven. In a few minutes, the 
time necessary to make an omelette soufH^e, the eggs 
rise and brown ever so slightly, and the ice does 
not melt. Serve immediately with hot plates. This 
injunction is essential, as the soufH6 must not cool, 
or the opposition of hot and cold would be decreased, 
and in a measure lost. If the party consist of ten 
or twelve people, it is advisable to make two souffles 
surprises, instead of increasing the number of eggs. 
The ice must be made very firm, and in a low mould, 
no higher than a breakfast cup. 



ii6 



Sweet Dishes — Ices 

Glace aux Fraises (StrawberFy lee) 

A little over half a pound of sugar. 
One quart of water. 

One and a half pounds of strawberries ; the juice 
of two lemons. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water in an earthenware 
saucepan. Squeeze the lemons therein, and strain 
through the hair sieve. Pass the strawberries 
through a fine sieve, and mix them with the syrup. 
Colour with a little cochineal. Proceed in the same 
manner as for the vanilla ice. 

Raspberry Ice 

The same as for the strawberry ice, but without 
the lemon. 

Another Word on Ices 

Vanilla ice is sometimes served with hot 
chocolate poured over it 



117 



CHAPTER XIV 

HOW TO MAKE COFFEE 

How is it that England has such a bad reputa- 
tion for making coffee? The coffees imported into 
the United Kingdom are of first-rate quality, yet the 
decoction served there, after luncheon and dinner, 
in the majority of houses, is detestable. To what 
can this be attributed ? 

Simply to the fact that the ordinary housekeeper 
buys coffee that has not only been roasted, but 
ground, thereby losing strength and flavour. 

I allow that it is not always convenient to roast 
coffee at home, although there is nothing less com- 
plicated — given the machines to be found at any 
ironmonger's. But to buy coffee ground by the 
grocer is one of the primary causes of the inferiority 
of English-made coffee. Let me therefore impress 
upon those averse from " roasting," the necessity of 
buying their coffee in the bean, procuring it as freshly 
roasted as possible. 

The beans should be kept in an eartWfen or china 
vessel, hermetically closed, not — as is generally the 
case — in tins ; and ground in the ordinary little 
mill, just at the moment required. 

ii8 



How to make Coffee 

Caf6 Noir (Black Coffee) 

For every small cup, take one tablespoonful of 
ground coffee. 

Measure the water, allowing one cupful per person, 
and a little over that will be absorbed by the 
coffee. 

Make it in the ordinary earthenware or metal 
percolating pot. Scald the lower receptacle as for 
tea-making. 

Place the coffee upon the percolator. Pour, little 
by little, boiling water in the measured quantity, and 
let it stand until it has filtered through the coffee. 
Serve as hot as possible. 

It goes without saying that the better the quality 
the better the cup of coffee. It is a mistake to 
imagine that a mixture of coffees brings out the 
aroma. This is an exploded theory. 

Caf^-au-lait (Coffee with Milk) 

Whilst in black coffee not a particle of chicory 
is added, the secret of cafi-au-lait — as the French 
understand it — lies in the addition of one spoonful 
of chicory for every two spoonfuls of ground coffee. 

For a breakfast cupful of cafi-au-lait take the 
same quantity of coffee and the same quantity 
of water as for a small cup of black coffee. When 
the coffee is made, add two-thirds of boiling milk 
to one-thjrd of coffee. In other words : one-third 
of the breakfast cup consists of coffee and two-thirds 
of milk. 

In order to extract the full essence from the 
119 



French Household Cooking 

beans, some cooks pour boiling water over the 
grounds that remain in the percolator, and make use 
of this, instead of ordinary water, for preparing the 
coffee the next day. Experts, however, contend 
that perfection is reached when the water boils but 
once ; it is therefore only for coffee which will be 
mixed with milk {cafi-au-laii) that this process of 
extracting the remaining essence from the " grounds " 
can be recommended. 



120 



CHAPTER XV 

MENUS 

WITH RECIPES FROM THE BEST PARIS CHEFS 

It is as difficult to make a menu as a programme for a 
piano recital, and there are dinners as heavy as concerts. 
In order, therefore, to avoid failure in compiling a menu, 
here are a few examples of dinners served at some of the 
famous Paris restaurants, which are perfectly composed and 
may serve as types for all occasions when a ceremonious 
menu is required. 

Menu. (Ledoyen) 

Cr^me d'ficrevisse 

CoDSomm^ Marie Stuart 

Truite Saumon^e k la Royale 

Noisette de Pr^sal^ aux Primeurs 

Supreme de Caneton Demidoff 

Granite au Porto Dor^ 

Poularde Ledoyen 

Cailles en Chaudfroid 

Asperges Sauce Mousseline 

Glace Op^ra 
Fruits Dessert 

(Dinner offered by the Due Decazes after the automobile 
boat race at Toulon.) 



French Household Cooking 

Recipes from the Cbef 

Truite Saumon^e a la Royale 

The trout is poached in sauterne, the skin is removed 
when the fish is cooked, and the pink flesh lies blushingly 
on a dish surrounded with bouquets of truffles, quenelles, 
and crayfish. It is served with a port sauce. 

POULARDE LeDOYEN 

This is a capon abundantly truffled ; but a truffled capon 
is not a Foularde Ledoyen. Besides the truffles it is stuffed 
with foie gras. This highly seasoned bird is served with 
a timbale of truffles cooked in champagne. 

Menu. {Cafi de la Paix) 

Huitres Colchester 

Hors-d'ceuvre 

Homard h. I'Ecossaise 

Noisette d'Agneau Henri IV. 

Ailerons de Poussins Savoyarde 

Supreme de Canetons a la Paix 

Salade Farisienne 

Glace Op^ra Dessert 



Recipes 



HOMARD A l'I^cossaise 



This is a lobster served hot, and more appetisingly 
dressed than the majority of its kind. The instructions 
are to cut a large lobster into pieces while still alive, season 
with salt and cayenne, and brown on both sides in a low 
stewing-pan in a mixture of oil and butter. When coloured 
to a golden brown add a lump of butter and a spoonful of 
tomatoes in purde (tomato sauce). Cover the saucepan 
and let the lobster cook for a quarter of an hour. Then 
remove the flesh from the shell and place it in a souffle 
dish. Pass the sauce remaining in the saucepan through 
a sieve, let it boil for a few minutes without a cover, to 

122 



Menus 

reduce it, and thicken with a cupful of cream and a glass 
of Scotch whisky. Serve as hot as possible. 



Noisette de Pr£sal^ Henri IV. 

This is the equivalent of the English Southdown mutton. 
Take the fleshiest part of chops for as many as there are 
guests, and brown them in butter. When well cooked 
place them on rounds of fried bread. Reduce the sauce 
in the frying-pan with a small glass of sherry and some 
good meat extract. Cover the noisettes with the sauce and 
serve at the same time a bearnaise in a sauce-boat and a 
dish of potato croquettes. 

Ailerons de Poussins Savoyarde 

Take the wings of very young chickens, salt them, colour 
them in butter, clarify, and cover the saucepan. Let them 
cook for fifteen minutes. In the meanwhile prepare a few 
small potatoes, mushrooms, artichokes in quarters, small 
onions, and a little lean bacon ; colour them In butter, and 
add them to the chicken in the saucepan. 

The wings or ailerons (which should be now ready) are 
placed in the centre of a dish, and the above garnish placed 
around them in little heaps. Put half a tumbler of white 
wine and a little strong stock into the saucepan where 
the chickens have cooked, add salt and pepper to taste, 
and pour it over the dish with a pinch of chopped parsley. 



Salade Parisienne 

This is a wonderful salad, composed of potatoes cut into 
cubes, peas, asparagus points, artichoke fonds, small carrots, 
celery root, French beans and flageolets. Season with a 
mayonnaise, to which you add a little meat jelly and a glass 
of good brandy. Decorate the top of the salad with slices 
of truffles, asparagus points, and bouquets of cauliflower. 

123 



French Household Cooking 

SUPR&ME DE CaNETONS "A LA PaIX " 

A famous dish of duck that seems to have taken the 
place of the pressed duck — once so fashionable. The 
duck is roasted, and stuffed when cold with foie gras, 
cream, and a glass of port ; the fillets are cut and placed 
side by side upon the carcase, as usual. This is a great 
supper dish. 

Menu. {Rttz) 

Caviar Blinis 

Tortue Claire 

Filets de Sole Alexandre 

Poularde Washington 

Purfe Favorite 

Fommes Macaire 

B^casses au Fremet 

Salade 

Asperges Vertes 

Poires Duchesse de Devonshire 

Corbeilles de Fruits 

Recipes 

Caviar Blinis 

Small pancakes of black corn served with caviar. 

Filets de Sole Alexandre 

Remove the fillets from a large sole, flatten and roll 
them, poach them in a good bouillon (made with the bones, 
head, and tail of the fish, a few slices of onion, herbs, and a 
dash of vinegar). Stuff them with quenelles of crayfish, 
cooked in the same bouillon as the fillets of sole. 

Make a thick bdchamel sauce and let it cool. When 
cold cut in a diamond pattern, thick enough to hold one 
of the fillets when the interior of the bechamel is scooped 
out. Remove the top of the shaped bdchamel very care- 
fully, in order to replace it upon the part that contains the 
fish. Cover with bread-crumbs and vermicelli, and fry in 
butter. Serve with a chablis sauce. 

124 



Menus 



PouLARDE Washington 

Select a large capon. About a dozen heads of maize 
corn are boiled and taken from the husk, lightly coloured 
in butter, mixed with a spoonful of supreme sauce, and 
used as a stuffing for the bird. Forty to fifty minutes 
must be allowed to cook the capon in a deep pan, in a 
moderate oven. The capon is then placed on a hot dish, 
and a glass of whisky, half a pint of cream, a little beef 
extract, and a pinch of cayenne are stirred into the pan to 
make the sauce. If fresh maize is not obtainable, tinned 
maize can be used. 

PuR^E Favorite 

Boil two pounds of French beans in salted water, until 
quite tender. Make them into a purde, mix with cream 
(a small cupful). Salt and pepper. 

Menu. {JFoyot) 

Crime Windsor — Ox Tail 

Barquettes d'Ecrevisses Nantua 

Truite Saumon^e au Vin Chambertin 

Baron d'Agneau de Fouillac aux Morilles 

Salmis de Gelinottes au X6ris 

Foie Gras Frais ^ la Souvaroff 

Sorbet au Kummel 

Canard \ I'Archiduc — Poularde TrufKe 

Salade Monselet 

Asperges d'Argenteuil Sauce Mousseline 

Petits Fois Nouveaux 4 la Fran9aise 

Timbales de Fruits Glacis i I'Orange 

Glace Viviane 

Feuillet^ aux Amandes 

Dessert 

(Dinner served at the ^lysde Palace to H.M. King 
Edward in May 1905.) 



125 



French Household Cooking 

Recipes 

Salade Monselet 

Take a large head of celery and cut it into small pieces 
— as small as possible — the hearts of two endives (chicory) 
cut in the same manner, a dozen peeled walnuts, broken 
into pieces. Season with a mayonnaise, and garnish at 
the summit with fillets of anchovies and olives. These 
quantities are sufficient for six people moderately fond of 
salad. For immoderate salad-eaters it must be reckoned 
for two. 

Menu. (Cafi Riche) 

Caviar 

Consomm^ Riche 

Sole Giselle 

Ris de Vean Belgrand 

Medallion 

Supreme de Behague Favorite 

Foie Gras Bonnaure 

Salade Ninette 

Souffle Jaffa 

Fruits Dessert 

Recipes from tlie Clief 

CoNSOMM^ Riche 

A soup made with the ordinary ingredients of a strong 
bouillon, thickened with tomatoes, celery, and artichokes 
in purdes. 

Sole Giselle 

A sole cooked in white wine flavoured with asparagus 
points and shrimps. 

HOMARD DORIA 

A variation of the Homard S, I'Amdricaine — lobster cut 
into pieces and served hot — with truffles and mushrooms 

126 



Menus 

added to a bdchamel sauce thickened to a cream with 
grated gruyfere cheese. 

Supreme de Behague Favorite 

Fillets of venison cooked in butter and Bordeaux, served 
on a purfe of French beans. 

POULET P0Ch£ FORESTlilRE 

Chicken prepared in a frying-pan, surrounded with 
mushrooms k la crfeme ; in plain English, the button species 
of mushrooms in a bdchamel sauce. 

M^DAILLON A LA RiCHE 

Fillets of beef with Madeira, truffles, and small balls of 
potatoes. 

Caneton de Rouen A la Fran9aise 

Roast duckling, with the sauce made with the duck's 
liver mashed with the gravy, and a glass of brandy. 



Terrine de Foie Gras Bonnaure 
Foie gras served in a port jelly. 

Salade Ninette 

A salad composed of finely sliced celery, asparagus 
points, tomatoes, and truffles ; the celery and tomatoes are 
raw, the dressing made of cream, vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
mustard. The cream takes the place of oil and gives a 
more delicate flavour. 

SouFFLi Jaffa 

Vanilla ice served in an orange. 
127 



French Household Cooking 



PicHES Thais 

Poached peaches, with a purde of strawberries and fresh 
almonds covering a vanilla ice inserted in the fruit, in the 
place of the stone. The fruit is cut into halves, the ice 
inserted, and covered with the purde. 



Recipes given by tlie Cbet at Marguery's 

Sole Marguery (Sole Normande) 

Fillet the soles and lay them in a flat pan. Moisten 
them with a glass of white wine, and season with salt and 
pepper. When the fillets are cooked, remove them to a 
dish and reduce the contents of the pan. Add to this 
"reduction" one or two yolks of eggs, according to the 
quantity of fish. Let them thicken to a cream on a 
moderate fire, and add little by little a good-sized piece of 
butter, taking care that the sauce is never more than warm. 
Throw in some chopped parsley. Garnish the fillets with 
peeled shrimps and mussels, and pour the sauce over all. 
Put the dish in a hot oven for four minutes and serve. 

TouRNEDOs Chasseur 

Cut as many thick slices of fillet of beef as there are 
guests. Give them the shape of a five-franc piece. Put 
some butter into a low saucepan with the fillets, let them 
colour on both sides on a quick fire. When cooked take 
them from the saucepan and throw into the gravy a good 
pinch of chopped shalots. Moisten with a little white wine 
and the same quantity of sherry, a spoonful of tomato sauce, 
and a httle concentrated bouillon. Add chopped parsley 
and taragon, and pour the sauce over the tournedos. The 
meat must not boil with the sauce. 



128 



Menus 

HoMARD A l'Am^ricaine 

This particular method of preparing lobsters is almost 
as celebrated as the sole. Cut two or three onions and 
carrots into cubes. Add a bay leaf and a pinch of thyme. 
Cook them in butter in a saucepan large enough to hold 
the lobster, which must be cut up alive into small pieces. 
Moisten with a glass of sherry, two glasses of white wine, 
and a fresh tomato reduced to pulp. Cover the saucepan 
hermetically. Cook on a quick fire for a quarter of an 
hour. Season with pepper and salt, and a dash of cayenne ; 
add a piece of butter the size of an egg, before serving. 

POULET k LA PaRMENTIER 

Cut a fowl into the ordinary pieces. Place them in a 
saucepan with a lump of butter. Pepper and salt. Let 
them colour on both sides very slowly for about ten 
minutes, add potatoes (peeled) and a few small onions. 
Cover the saucepan hermetically and let the contents stew 
on a slow fire. 

Add a sprinkling of chopped parsley when ready for 
serving. 

zWena (Luncheon). (Tour d' Argent) 

CEufs Claude Lowther 

Filet de Sole Bertron 

Escalopes de Ris de Veau B^net 

Caneton Tour d' Argent 

Salade Roger 

Fonds d'Artichauts au Fondu 

Fruits Glac& 
Caii Liqueurs 



Recipes 



CEuFS Claude Lowther 



The aspect of the eggs k la Claude Lowther is much the 
same as of ordinary scrambled eggs with asparagus points, 

129 K 



French Household Cooking 

but there is a delicacy in the flavour that has nothing 
ordinary about it Instead of mixing the eggs with milk 
in the orthodox fashion, take thick cream, add the asparagus 
points at the last moment and season well. 



Filet de Sole Bertron 

The fillet is served in the shell of the crayfish; the 
interior of the little ^crevisse in the sauce. 



Escalopes de Ris de Veau B:6net 

Sweetbreads with a good creamy bdchamel sauce, mixed 
with truffles and morils (yellow mushrooms). 



FoNDS d'Artichauts au Fondu 

This is a delightful dish, and much less complicated 
than it looks. Make a cheese souffld in the usual way. 
Boil the artichokes, remove the leaves, and into each fond 
pour a sufficient quantity of the souffle mixture to cover it. 
Bake for fifteen minutes in the oven, and serve on a hot 
dish. 

Menu. (Lapirouse) 

Crime d'Ecrevisses 
Printanier aux Quenelles 

Hors-d'oeuvre Vari& 

Filet de Sole Lapirouse 

Aloyau Brais^ a la LucuUus 

Fetits poulets poch^s aux pointes d'asperges 

Cipes Bordelaises 

Petits Pois Paysanne 

Canard Facci 

Salade Italienne 

Souffle Palmyre 

Fruits Dessert 

(Dinner served to the new Prix de Rome.) 
130 



Menus 

Recipes by the Cbef 

Filets de Sole Lap^rouse 

The soles are filleted and poached in a good fish stock. 
Mussels, shrimps, and mushrooms garnish the dish when the 
soles are ready to be served, and a bechamel sauce is 
poured over them. 

SOUFFL^ PaLMYRE 

A souffle is made in the ordinary way with butter, flour, 
milk, sugar, and the yolks of six eggs — the whites beaten to 
a stiflF froth and added when the souffld mixture is cold. 
Two or three sponge-cakes are cut into small pieces and 
steeped in aniseed. These are poured into the soufHd, 
which is then covered with grated macaroons. After re- 
maining five minutes in a hot oven, the soufHd is powdered 
with white sugar and replaced in the oven for a quarter 
of an hour. 

Recipes given by the Chef at Champeaux 

Sole A la Champeaux 

Poach the sole with a little stock and some good white 
wine. When cooked, add a little pepper and reduce the 
sauce. Thicken with the yolks of two eggs and a lump of 
butter. The better the quality of the butter the more 
deUcate is the sauce. Pass the sauce through a fine sieve. 
Sprinkle a few peeled shrimps on the sole, pour the sauce 
over it, cover lightly with grated bread-crumbs, and put it 
into a hot oven for five minutes. Serve with &revisses. 

Laitance de Carpe en Caisse 

Poach some roes in white wine and stock, add mush- 
rooms, thyme, bay leaf, onions, and butter to flavour. 

131 



French Household Cooking 

Reduce the sauce [and thicken with two or three yolks of 
eggs and a little fresh butter. Butter some paper cases, 
colour them in the oven, strain the roes on a napkin, 
place them in the cases and cover them with the sauce. 



POULET A LA HeLDER 

Cut a chicken into halves, without quite separating it. 
Season with salt and pepper and place it in a low saucepan 
with a good-sized lump of butter. Cover it hermetically 
and let it cook in the oven, basting it occasionally with the 
butter. When the chicken is nearly ready, add two table- 
spoonfuls of good stock. 



POULET k LA ChAMPEAUX 

Cut a chicken into ordinary pieces, colour them in 
butter ; when a golden brown add chopped parsley, moisten 
with white wine, a glass of sherry, a little strong gravy, and 
let them finish cooking in a covered saucepan. Place them 
in an entrde dish, add fresh butter to the sauce and pour 
it over. Boil in another saucepan some small round 
potatoes. Colour them in hot butter. Prepare some 
small onions in the same way, and serve them in alternate 
heaps round the chicken. 



POUDING DiPLOMATE 

Make a cream composed of the yolks of four eggs, 
powdered sugar, milk, and gelatine. Let it cool, and add 
a cupful of whipped cream, four sponge-cakes cut into pieces, 
and some mixed candied fruits in cubes, a glass of kirsch, 
and a glass of maraschino. Mix well and turn it into a 
fancy mould. Surround it with ice, and in half an hour it 
is ready to be served. 



13* 



Menus 

Menu. {Durand) 

Hors-d'oeuvre Vari& 

Consomme Portugais 

Barbue ^ la Durand 

Rls de Veau R^gence 

Pi^ce de Boeuf braisee Favorite 

Ortolans sur Croustades 

Salade de Saison 

Asperges Sauce Mousseline 

Bombe Victoria 

Dessert 

(Dinner offered by the Marquise de Jancourt to King 
Edward on his last visit to Paris as Prince of Wales.) 

Recipes by the Cbef 

Sole Durand 

Place the sole, which at Durand's, as in all first-class 
kitchens, is always skinned on both sides, in a stew-pan that 
has been well buttered. Season with salt and pepper, add 
a tablespoonful of tomato sauce, a sprig of thyme, a bay 
leaf, chopped parsley, a little white wine, and some fish 
stock. Cover it and let it cook in the oven. When quite 
" done," remove the sole into a hot dish, strain the sauce, 
add a lump of butter and cream to thicken it, and the 
juice of a lemon. Pour the sauce over the sole and serve 
hot. 

Salade Durand 

Cut into thin strips several boiled potatoes according to 
the quantity of salad required. Add truffles, fonds of 
artichokes, asparagus points, celery (also cut into strips) ; 
place them in an ice timbale. Season with a mayonnaise. 



133 



French Household Cooking 

POULET DURANt) 

This is a very simple and excellent recipe for an entree 
of chicken. For eight people take two chickens, carve 
them, and cook in butter, pepper and salt, turning them on 
both sides to colour. They can be browned either in the 
oven or in a sautd-pan on a moderate fire. In the mean- 
while, make a purde of artichokes, using the fonds of a 
dozen ; add a good bechamel to the purde and place it in 
the centre of the dish, surrounded by the pieces of chicken. 
A small bunch of asparagus points surmount the purde like 
a flag. Sometimes the purde is ornamented with carrots, 
turnips and potatoes cut into tiny balls, and cooked in 
butter ; but the simple pur& satisfies epicures. 

Menu (Luncheon). (Voisitt) 

Hors-d'ceuvre Vaiife 

Sole Grillfe Rouvier 

Eatrec6te Sauce Bordelaise 

Ortolan ^ la Caprille 

Petits Pois k la Franyaise 

Parfait au CaK 

Fromage Dessert 

Recipes by the Cbet 

Entrec6te Sauce Bordelaise 

This must not be mistaken for the entrecote "k la 
Bordelaise." The latter is a steak cooked on the grill, which, 
as soon as the side that is " cooked " is turned, is sprinkled 
with chopped shalot and parsley ; and when the steak is in 
the dish, butter, salt, pepper, and a dash of lemon are added. 
The entrec6te "Sauce Bordelaise" is served with small 
rounds of marrow and a. red wine sauce. The marrow bone 
should be placed in cold water for twenty-four hours if 
possible, the water changed several times, as the marrow 
is then whiter and more appetising ; otherwise it is always 
more or less grey. Put the bone into a saucepan full of cold 

134 



Menus 

water without salt. When the water boils, remove the 
saucepan to the side of the fire, to remain hot without 
boiling. Cover it and let the marrow poach for five-and- 
twenty or thirty minutes. It is shaken from the bone and 
cut into slices when the entrecote is ready to be served. 

For the sauce, put a tumblerful of claret, half that quantity 
of very good stock, and a pinch of sugar into a small sauce- 
pan. Boil without covering it, until it is reduced by half. 
Add chopped shalot and a small bay leaf; boil for five 
or six minutes ; pass the sauce through a fine sieve, and 
add the juice of a lemon, salt, pepper, a little cayenne, 
and a lump of butter. 

The entrecote is carved, salted and peppered, and the 
pieces placed one next the other in the original shape ; the 
slices of marrow are cut with a warm knife and arranged in 
the centre, the length of the steak, and the sauce is poured 
lightly over. 

Ortolan A la Caprille 

Stuff a plump ortolan with truffles. Moisten with 
Madeira and place in the shell of a turkey's egg, carefully 
washed and slightly greased with the purest of olive oil. 
This shell is placed in burning cinders with nothing but the 
head of the bird peeping from the top. Here in the shell 
the ortolan melts, little by little, like a lump of butter ; the 
fat rises to the surface, is removed with a teaspoon and 
replaced with a few drops of Alicante. When the bird is 
cooked, there is nothing more delicate, more delicious, more 
original than the Ortolan k la Caprille. 



THK END 



Printed iy R. & R. Clark, Limited, Edinburgh. 



^U these are 




and that implies, the 
best that any money buys. 

FRY'S 

*5 Boys' Milk Chocolate 

FRY'S 

'Alexandra' Chocolate 

FRY'S 

* Victoria Eugenie' and 
* Lotus' Chocolates 

As supplied to Royalty 



RUSSELL'S 

Patent ^HERALD' Range 



1 




is the most perfect and economical Cooking Range at 
present in existence. It contains many patented 
improvements not in any other Range. It has been 
in use for years in many of the principal Residences 
in the Country. 

Send for Catalogues giving full particulars of the 
various qualities made. 

TESTIMONIAL from FRAULEIN NOEDEL, Lady Superintendent to 
H.R.H. Princess of Wales' Technical School, Sandringham. 

" Sahdringham, Norfolk, 

" September 22, 1891, 

" Sirs,— After using the ' Herald ' Range in H.R.H. the Princess of Wales' School 
of Cookery for more than a year, I have pleasure in testifying to its thorough efficiency 
in every way. It uses comparatively little fuel, keeps pots boiling on every part of the 
hot plate, the ovens bake well, and it also supplies us with plenty of hot water. — Believe 
me, Sirs, yours truly, 

"CHARLOTTE NOEDEL, 

" Lady Superintendent to H.R.H. the Princess of Wales' Technical School." 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



TOYS OF OTHER DAYS. 

By Mrs. F. Nevill Jackson. Price 2 is. Net. 

Under the title of " Toys of other Days," Mrs. Nevill Jackson has brought 
together an interesting history of the playthings of children from prehistoric 
times up till the first half of the igA century. Though the book is one of 
absorbing interest to the little ones, it is also a volume for connoisseurs ; 
for fine examples of miniature furniture, toy services of Leeds and Staffordshire, 
salt glaze and specimens of silver toys from famous European collections, 
to take a few examples only, are among the subjects ably described by the 
authoress, and illustrated in superb style. 

EDITION DE LUXE, limited to one hundred and fifty copies, 
with illustrations in colour after Sir Joshua Reynolds, Bartolozzi, 
Thos. Stothard, William Hamilton and N. Colibert. 

Beautifully hound. Price £2 2s. Net, 

WHERE THE FOREST MURMURS. 

By Fiona Macleod, being a Series of Nature Essays. 

65. Net ; by post, 6s. 4^. 

" No other than Fiona Macleod could so have transfigured Nature into 
dream, no other writer could have expressed with such unity of spirit the Celtic 
attitude in terms of country things. She finds t)ie charm of the mountain in 
their contemplation from the valley, the forest most vividly itself when the twigs 
are bare and the mosses shrouded in snow, the most luminous moment of the 
cuckoo's year in its first days of silence, and her love of all things greatest when 
they have just been taken away." — Morning Post. 

' ' There is everywhere a sense of the haunting mystery of the processes of 
the world viewed through the eyes of a simple unsophisticated nature, which, 
from perpetual brooding upon the face of the deep, has caught something of the 
misty air and broken music of the waves. Suggestion, rather than doctrine, is 
the atmosphere of the work ; and in a certain vague, but beautiful suggestive- 
ness, the strange but eager-hearted prose of this writer abounds to the very 
brim." — Daily Telegraph. 

ECONOMIES IN DAIRY FARMING. 

A New and Important Work on Dairying, by Mr. Ernest Mathews 
{the well-known fudge and Expert). ys. 6d. Net; by post, js. lod, 

" The author of this book is so well-known among farmers, especially those 
interested in the selection and judging of cows, that his name and experience 
alone will go far to ensure that his views receive the attention they deserve. He 
has for many years past been judge in all the most important butter tests which 
have been held at our principal agricultural shows." — The Journal of the Bath 
and West of England Society. 

"Mr. Mathews gives sound advice though he avoids going into scientific 
details. The book is full of valuable information, and the excellent illustrations 
supply what no amount of letterpress could explain so well." — Manchester Courier. 

"It would be very difficult to find anyone who is more able to discourse 
with profit on ' Economies in Dairy Farming,' and in this elegantly printed and 

bound volume Mr. Mathews has condensed a world of good advice " Momine 

Post. ^ 

" Mr. Mathews pursues a line almost exclusively his own, and this is to 
place the reader in possession of information concerning outward evidences of 
utility and special capability in cows, which, if rightly interpreted, will enable 
him to effect advantageous purchases and selections. ' ' — The Field. 

Published at the Offices of "Country Life," Limited, so, Tavistock Street, Strand, W C ■ 
and by Gsorge Newnes, Ltd., j-ia, Southampton Street, Strand, W.C. " ' 



COUNTRY LIFE 

THE JOURNAL FOR ALL INTERESTED IN 
COUNTRY LIFE AND COUNTRY PURSUITS 

Subscription Prices per annum (Pest free) : Inland, 29s. 2d. ; 
Foreign, 47s. Weekly, Price, 6d. 

COUNTRY LIFE is a weekly jonrnal addressed to all interested in country 
life and country pursuits. One of its main features is the celebrated 
series of Country Homes and Gardens Old and New ; in each 
number a country seat, remarkable either for its beauty or something 
peculiarly instructive in the architecture of the house, gardens or grounds, is 
elaborately illustrated in a manner that has proved of high service to those 
engaged in building and laying out or improving their estates. Other 
features of rural life are dealt with in an equally thorough manner. The 
methods pursued on our most famous estates and farms are minutely 
described, and photographs of the finest pedigree stock and the best 
machinery are given. All forms of healthy outdoor sport are described and 
illustrated in their season. In no case, however, are the facts set forth dry, 
as the journal numbers among its contributors some of the most graceful and 
accomplished writers of the present day. New books are also described and 
discussed by competent critics, so that altogether the journal is calculated to 
give the best news and views on all subjects that are of interest in cultivated 
circles, and the wholesomeness and fine open-air feeling that pervades its 
pages have almost become proverbial. CoDNTsy Life has, in fact, become 
indispensable. 



Dally TelaKraph.—'" Country Ufa' Is generally admitted to be the most beantiiiilly 
produced of all the weekliei. Its process UlustiatlODS are unmatched, and the letterpress u 
always carefully selected and good in quality." 

Westminster Qazette. — ^<' To say of 'Country ^fs" that it is one of the best of out 

Illustrated productions is stating only half a fact, inasmuch as in some of its features it stands 
alone. Its splendid gallery of stately mansions, beautiful interiors, and grand old gardens are 
incomparable." 

Dally Mall. — " ' Country Life ' hai established itself as the most beautifnlly ptodueed 
weekly journal in the world." 

Dally Newt. — " There is no feature of life in the country that is untouched, and a boand 
volume of ' Country Life ' is a real joy to possess and frequenUy to turn over." 

Spectator. — " ' Country Life " amply fulfils its promise of being ' the journal for all 
Interested in country life and country pursuits.* " 

Liverpool Dally Courier. — "There is scarcely a number without one or more contributions 
of literary or other interest which will stand reading, re-reading and study." 



LONDON ; POBLlSnBD AT THE OFPICBS OV COUNTRY LIFE, LTO., TAVISTOCK ST,, 
COTINT GAXSm ; AHD BT OSOKOS HSWHIS. LTB., SSSTHAUFTON ST., STKAHB, W.CI 




The Leading Gardening Newspaper for Amateur and Professional 
Gardeners. 

PRICE ONE PENNY WEEKLY. 



THE FLOWER GARDEN. 
THE ROSE GARDEN. 
THE WAUL AND WATER 
GARDEN. 



NEW AND RARE PLANTS. 
THE KITCHEN GARDEN. 
THE FRUIT GARDEN. 
ORCHIDS, &c, &C 



Since " The Garden " has been reduoed from threepence to one penny, its 
success has been extraordinary. It meets the requirements of both PROFESSIONAL 
and AMATEUR GARDENERS. It is circulating rapidly amongst BEGINNERS 
IN GARDENING, and the great feature of helping readers by greatly extending the 
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS has been much appreciated. All branches 
of gardening are fully considered, and descriptions and illustrations in colour and 
black and white of new plants, the Flower Garden, Rose Garden, Kitchen Garden, 
Fruit Garden, and Wall and Water Garden are given. 

"The Garden" la THE gardening paper wherein to learn the best ways of 
making a success of the smallest and largest gardens. It is a paper for all to study 
who wish to thoroughly master the art M gardening. 



GARDENING FOR BEGINNERS AND ANSWERS TO 
CORRESPONDENTS A ^FECIAL FEATURE. 



VALUABLE PRIZES OFFERED FOR COMPETITION. 

A COLOURED PLATE IS GIVEN WITH ALTERNATE ISSUES. 



CONSULT THE ADVERTISEMENT PACES 
FOR EVERY REQUISITE FOR THE GARDEN. 



TO BE HAD OF ALL NEWSAGENTS & BOOKSTALLS. 



Speeimcn Copy post free from tKe Manager, "The Garden," 
20, Tavistock Street, Covent Garden, W.C. 



