Over 
Seat 
Oi 




in Use in 
id Every 
adlion 



Til 1 5 

■ S444 3 




tter how good 
pes contained 

>ok, they can- 

Dughly prove 
th except with 
the aid of a properly 
constructed Range, 
such as the GREAT 
c7HAJESTIC. 

This wonderful in- 
vention is rightly built— 
built for economy— built for work— built to endure. 

Skill is required to become proficient in cooking, 
and a GREAT cTWAJESTIC RANGE, together 
with a Cook-book of such sterling merit as the one 
you have in hand, will prove highly effective in 
giving a mastery in the culinary art. 

FREDERICK & NELSON, (Inc.) 



Q=£> ilD 


B21 Zb Aur. *«tttl*. Waalf. 


Largest and best equipped Greenhouses 
in the Northwest 

125 Thousand sq. ft. under glass. 

H. HARRINGTON FLORAL CO. 

Both Phones 2935 912 2nd Ave. 

Choicest cut flowers and plants in the city. 
Stock is received daily fresh from our 
Greenhouses at Vashon Island, Wash. 


(JT> <J^ 


HAYNES 

MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER 

Candies 
Ice Cream 
Light Lunch 

Seasonable Luncheon Favors and Novelties 

813 Second Avenue Phone Main 1111 



pOOD CLOTHES don't grow in 
^-^" every shop. Both the cloth and 
linings of our clothes have been watered 
— not till they sprouted, but till the 
sponging and responging have taken 
every bit of stretch and shrink out of the 
goods. 

^That's the first step in growing these 
clothes. Good materials are first made 
fit to develop into good clothes. ' 
<JWhen the give and take is all out, a 
style and a fit is given the garments that 
you can see here for yourself. If you 
like the clothes you'll be safe in buying 
them because the looks are i here to stay; 
these suits and overcoats are tailored 
throughout by hand. 

$20 to $50 



710 Second Avenue 



Near Columbia 



King Bros. Co. 

Correct Apparel for Men 



OSSEWARD 

Sr 

RUBENSTEIN 



IIP 



THAT'S ALL 



708 SECOND AVENUE 

PHONES 
Main 962 Ind. 1062 



SOMETHING 
DELICIOUS 



NATURAL GRAPE JUICE 

MIGLIAVACCA GO. 



208 SECOND 
AVE. SOUTH 



H. SILVER & CO., Use. 

DEALERS IN 

^Diamonds, Watches, Jeivelry, Sterling Silver 

Out c/lass, Ltmbnellas, Stc. 

FOR FINE GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES GO TO 

H. SILVER & CO., INC. 
715 Second Avenue :: :: :: :: SEATTLE 

G. C. CARMAN 

FULTON MARKET 
dealer i> FRUITS, VEGETABLES, FISH 

Hinckley Blk., Seattle, Wash. •*««] £S£E2', J 8! 



ESTABLISHED 1890 
Sunset East 3001— Phone— Ind. 51 

Madison Street 
Market and Grocery 

Oldest Market and Grocery 
on Madison Street 

Dealers in All Kinds of 

Meats, Poultry 

Groceries, Fruits and 

Vegetables 

1 1 9- 1 02 1 East Madison Street 



W. N. Vandewerker 



A. Z. Hamilton 



\ SUNSET 2210 



The 



VandH 



Co. 



FOOTWEAR 



For Women and 

Men 

1208 SECOND AVENUE 

SEATTLE 



McRae&Branigan 




THREE STORES 
320 East Pike 901-3-5 Yesler Way 433 15th North 



The Puget Sound 
National Bank 



OF SEATTLE 



JACOB FURTH, President 

J. S. GOLDSMITH, Vice President 

R. V. ANKENY, Cashier 



Correspondents in all the Prin- 
cipal Cities of the United 
States and Europe 



GOLD DUST BOUGHT 



Drafts Issued on Alaska and the 
Yukon Territory 




For Cakes and 

Puddings and the 

' 'Dainties' ' that 

go with the 
"Afternoon Tea" 

In hermetically 

sealed tins only 

Ready for 

instant use 

HAS NO EQUAL 

for CHOCOLATE 

ICING 



'.5.0.11 

Is made from the 
largest bed of 

Pure Rock Salt 
in the World 



It s as pure as 

Salt can be 

and is not 

compounded 



wi 



th ch 



emicais 



Costs a Trifle 
More, and 
Worth It 



■: 



q LUNCHEON 

In the Savoy Hotel Grill is really delightful. Cosy 
surroundings, comfort and good taste on every hand. 
Our Chef is from Monte Carlo, our service di- 
rected by head waiters who have had long train- 
ing in large Eastern cafes. Prices are moderate. 
Just the place to take your wife or business friend 
for luncheon. 

q NOTHING 

Could be more delightful than dinner in our ladies' 
cafe. If artistic surroundings, snowy tinen, fine 
crystal, good music, good wine and excellent service 
count, then THE SAVOY can please you. 

qHALF 

The pleasure of going to the theatre is a little tete-a-tete supper after- 
ward. THE SAVOY English Grill has many a cosy nook, where 
the play may be discussed over good food, accompanied by good music. 

SECOND AVENUE, NEAR UNIVERSITY STREET 




"Twelve Stories of 
Solid Comfort" 



?■ 



^ 



M. & K. GOTTSTEIN 

WHOLESALE LIQUOR 
DEALERS 



SEATTLE 



WASHINGTON 



qjT^d 



4 






HHnbn KuapittB of 

®I|P SaMps' Auxiliary 

i 



(Compiled bg 

ilra. 9tgtattusttii Arnnamt 
Mvb. HHUltam (UnttatHn 



&?attl?, fflaa^tngton 
10D5 



MERCHANTS PRfNTINQ CO., SEATTLE 



<\ 



tx? 



5 



A 



:•- 



LIBRARY of CONGRESS 
Two Copies Received 

DEC 26 ^03 

K Copyright Entry 



CLASS 



XXc, No, 



Miti 



Copyrighted 1908 



Card of Thanks 



We wish it were possible to name and thank indi- 
vidually all those who assisted this book. We are deeply 
indebted to those who managed the advertising depart- 
ment — to those who contributed their best and choicest 
recipes — and to all who have lent their support and 
assistance. 



Table of Weights and Measurements 



1 cupful equals half a pint. 

14 tablespoonfuls equal 1 cupful. 

3 teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful. 

1 cupful of butter or lard is 7^ ounces. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter are 1 ounce. 
1 level cupful of flour is 4 ounces. 

1 quart of flour just rounded over is 1 pound. 

1 moderately heaped tablespoon is 1 ounce. 

1 cupful of milk is 8 ounces. 

1 cupful molasses holds 12 ounces. 

1 level cupful of granulated sugar is 7 ounces, a round cupful is 
half a pound. 

1 level cupful of brown sugar is 6 ounces. 



SOUPS 15 



Soups 



Many have been the opinions expressed about the relation of the 
soup to the rest of the meal, some considering it a meal in itself 
and others looking upon it as flavored water, only fit for children and 
invalids. Most of us coincide with the French authority who calls 
soup the preface to the feast, and which is, in fact, a stimulant for the 
more or less elaborate menu to follow. 

As a rule, for a large dinner of many courses, the soup should be as 
light as possible, whereas for a plain dinner it may be much richer 
and more satisfying. In the making of soups there is a difference 
of taste as to which portion of the beef is best for the purpose. The 
shinbone contains the marrow which adds strength and thickness to 
the soup, while the neck makes a more nutritious soup. A piece of 
beef liver imparts a pleasant flavor to many soups. 

In making soup, bring the cold water in the soup pot with the 
meat and bones to a boil slowly, and let it simmer for hours, never 
boiling and never ceasing to simmer. Skim off every bit of fat. Do 
not use too much salt; a little is advisable, as it causes the scum to 
rise. Long soaking in cold water draws out the juices of the meat 
and dissolves the gelatine. Bones, both fresh and those partially 
cooked, meats of all kinds, vegetables of various sorts, all may be 
added to the stock pot, to give flavor and nutriment to the soup. 
There are three classes of soup — clear, thick and purees. The first is 
clear and thin; the second about as thick as cream, but not transpar- 
ent, while in a puree all the ingredients are rubbed through a sieve. 

Beef Soup a la Julienne. 

Cook all the vegetables in a separate kettle. Use a nice piece of 
soup meat, about four pounds, and a large soup bone. Cut up two car- 
rots, two turnips, quarter of a head of cabbage, one head of celery, a 
few tomatoes, some ham; cut up very fine a handful of peas and a 
few tablespoons of corn (you may use canned). When tender pour 
your soup stock over the cooked vegetables. Season to taste and serve. 
You may add some noodles, cut into little squares, but not too many, 
or it will be thick. 

What bank is more reliable than the Pug-et Sound National? 



16 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Beef Tea. 

One pound round steak, have all fat removed, and cut into dice. 
Add one pint cold water, sprinkle salt over meat and allow to 
stand half an hour; then put in a clean kettle and boil slowly for 
twenty minutes, covering with a lid. Strain. Can be used either hot 
or cold. MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Clam Nectar. 

Heat clam nectar (canned or fresh clam juice). Add pepper, salt 
and a little grated onion. Serve in bouillon cups with a teaspoonful of 
whipped cream on top. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Cream of Mushroom Soup. 

Half pound of mushrooms, four cups chicken stock, few slices 
onion, quarter cup butter, quarter cup flour, one cup cream; salt, pep- 
per; two tablespoons Saute rne. Chop mushrooms, add to chicken stock 
with onion; cook twenty minutes and rub through a sieve. Cook flour 
and butter together; then add cream, salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
above stock with this cream sauce and just before serving add wine. 
Serve with croutons. R. LOBE. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

One and a half pounds of lean veal chopped; one moderately young 
chicken, jointed; add two quarts of cold water and simmer until meat 
is cooked. Remove the breast of chicken, and all best parts of the 
meat. Return the bones to the pot and boil hard for one hour. Strain, 
and let cool over night. (The chicken will make a dozen croquettes, 
or nice salad). About an hour before using the soup skim off all the 
fat, and put the stock, which should be a jelly, into a kettle. Let it 
slowly come to a boil, salt and pepper it. Add a cupful and a half of 
good, sweet cream, and two teaspoonfuls of flour made smooth in the 
cream and brought to a boil. Have ready a cupful of celery, chopped 
fine; stew it for half an hour in a little salted boiling water; drain off 
the water and add the celery to the soup. Have a teaspoonful of cracker 
crumbs in the bowl, and serve immediately, before the crackers are 
soaked. MRS. M. M. FREDRICK. 

Cream of Peas or Asparagus. 

Cook peas or asparagus in stock until soft; pass all through sieve. 
Heat one pint cream, pour in tureen, and pour boiling stock 
in. Add custard squares. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 



RELIANCE 3SKS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



SOUPS 17 



Bisque of Crawfish. 

Choose about 40 crawfish and boil. Remove from fire and drain. 
Clean the heads. Keep 30 of the shells and also the remains, which 
you set to boil in a quart of water. Peel the tails and chop them 
fine. Make a paste with the meat, to which add soaked bread, a large 
spoonful of fried onion and chopped parsley, salt and pepper. With 
this fill the 30 shells and put aside. Start the soup by frying onion in 
butter, add some flour for thickening, green onions and minced parsley. 
When browned pour in the bouillon, also the soup made from the re- 
mains of the head seasoned with salt and pepper and two bay leaves. 
Let boil slowly for y 2 hour. When ready to serve take each head, roll 
in flour and fry in butter until crisp all around and put in the soup. Let 
boil 3 or 4 minutes. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Cream of Barley Soup. 

Two tablespoons butter and 2 tablespoons flour browned in a 
pan. Add carefully 3 cups milk. When boiling add y 2 cup pearl 
barley well washed. Let cook for 4 or 5 hours, adding water and milk as 
necessary. Strain when well cooked and add an equal quantity of good 
soup stock, and boil together about an hour. When ready to serve 
add cream to taste, also salt and pepper if not sufficiently seasoned. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Cream of Potato Soup. 

Fry 6 tender leaks, cut in inch pieces, in hot fat until yellow. 
Add 3 pints of water and 3 mealy grated or mashed potatoes while 
hot. Cook this with very little salt and pepper for 40 minutes. Then 
add the crumbs of a stale roll, cook 10 minutes more, strain, season if 
needed, and add 1 cup cream. MRS. N. DEGGINGER. 

Clam Chowder. 

Take some fat and when heated add y 2 onion cut fine. Brown the 
same and add 1 tablespoon flour. Brown a little and add 1 quart of soup 
stock. Take 2 potatoes, 2 carrots, 1 turnip and some celery cut in 
small pieces. Take 3 slices of bacon cut fine and 1 pint of clams. 
Add all to mixture. Season with salt, J teaspoon of chili peka powder, 
some paprika, 1 teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce and y 2 cup of catsup. 
Cook well for \y 2 hours. MRS. S. FRIEDENTHAL. 

Clam Chowder No. 2. 

Cut into cubes 3 carrots, 1 tomato, 1 onion, 2 pieces celery and a 
little parsley, and boil till tender, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
Then add the juice of 1 quart of clams and 15 minutes afterward the 
minced clams. When ready to serve, have ready y 2 a pint of boiled 
milk, in which you drop a pinch of soda. Pour in soup tureen and 
then pour the chowder over the milk. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Lowmau & Hanford carry the most complete line of stationery, books, 
Kodak supplies, etc., in Seattle. 



18 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Cream of Spinach Soup. 

Wash spinach thoroughly. Boil until tender, and then press 
through sieve. Have chicken broth or rich stock ready, seasoned 
highly. Put cup rich cream in with the spinach and add stock or broth 
slowly. Put on stove until heated through and serve immediately with 
croutons. CARRIE A. FORTLOUIS. 

Cream of Almonds Soup. 

Blanch and grind or pound x k pound almonds and simmer slowly 
in 1 pint of milk for 5 minutes. Melt 1 tablespoon butter and 1 of flour. 
Do not allow to bubble. Add 1 cup milk and thicken slightly. Then add 
the almond mixture and simmer again until creamy. Remove from fire 
and add 1 cup cream. Season with salt and pepper or omit as suits 
taste. Cream can be whipped or left plain. 

MRS. N. DEGGINGER. 
Chicken Soup. 

Take an old fat hen, put on with cold water. Then add heart 
and gizzard (add liver a few minutes before serving). Boil chicken 
about 3 hours with parsley root, onion and asparagus cut into small 
bits. Strain and remove grease. Add rice, barley, noodles or dump- 
lings. Beat up yolks of 2 or more eggs with a tablespoon of cold water 
just before pouring into soup bowl. MRS. I. MONHEIMER. 

Green Kern Soup. 
Cook the same as barley soup. Strain. Then beat up 1 egg in 
the tureen, add 1 cup cream to this and pour boiling soup into tureen. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Green Pea Puree. 

Cook about 10 cents' worth of green peas until very tender. Then 
mash through colander. To this amount heat a quart of milk in 
double boiler. Add butter, salt and pepper to taste, and last the 
mashed green peas and some cream. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

Bring to a boiling point 1 quart of milk. Melt 1 tablespoon of 
butter in a pan. Do not burn. Stir into this a tablespoon of flour. 
Pour in part of the hot milk to the butter and flour slowly, so as not 
to lump the mixture. Season with white pepper and salt to taste. Add 
the balance of the milk. This must be prepared in a double boiler. 
Put some cracker dust in the milk. Strain y% can of tomatoes, into 
which add a good pinch of baking soda. Pour that into the boiling 
milk and heat together. Must be served at once. 

MARIA WILZINSKI. 



RELIANCE SHE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



SOUPS 19 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

One calf's head, 6 whole cloves, y 2 teaspoon whole pepper, 6 whole 
all spice, 2 sprigs thyme, 1-3 cup sliced onion, 1-3 cup carrots, 2 cups 
brown stock, % cup butter, y 2 cup flour, 1 cup stewed and strained 
tomatoes, juice of y 2 lemon, Madeira wine. Clean and wash calf's head, 
soak 1 hour in cold water and cover. Cook until tender in quart boiling 
salt water to which seasoning and vegetables have been added. Remove 
head. Boil stock until reduced to 1 quart. Strain and cool. Melt 
and brown butter, add flour, stir well until well browned, then pour 
slowly over the brown stock. Add head stock, tomatoes, 1 cup face 
meat cut in dice, and the lemon juice. Simmer 5 minutes, add custard 
cut in dice and egg balls or meat balls. Add Madeira wine, salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Mutton Soup. 

Wash 2 pounds neck of mutton, cut off fat and cut into small 
squares. Put meat in saucepan with 3 pints of water, set over quick 
fire. Boil and skim frequently. When scum comes up quite white put 
in cup of pearl barley and skim again. Cut up carrot, turnip and celery 
in small pieces and add to the soup, also chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper. Serve without straining. MRS. S. BROWN. 

Ox Tail Soup. 
Put to boil in enough cold water to cover 2 ox tails. When parboiled, 
cut the meat into small pieces and put aside. Melt in the frying pan 2 
ounces of butter, and in this put down to brown 2 small onions, 1 
turnip, 2 carrots, 2 stalks of celery, all cut up fine, and put into the 
liquid in which the ox tail has been parboiled. Add a teaspoon of 
extract of beef of good quality, and when this has dissolved thicken to 
taste with browned flour. Add a dessertspoon of Worcestershire sauce, 
boil up, strain and add the cut up ox tail and a glass of sherry wine. 

MRS.H.ELSTER. 
Oyster Stew. 

After all bits of shell are removed from a pint of oysters and their 
liquor has been strained, let the liquor come to a boil and remove all 
scum, then add a teaspoon of butter, salt and pepper to taste and 1 pint 
milk. After the broth comes to a boil and is free from scum, put in 
oysters, and the moment the edges curl remove from fire and serve at 
once. One cracker rolled fine and added to the broth before serving 
is an improvement. MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Peanut Soup. 

One quart soup stock, 1 cup shelled peanuts boiled and strained, 
1 cup cream, a little parsley, 1 tablespoon butter, salt and pepper. Add 
cream just before serving. MRS. L. M. STERN. 

Puree of Artichokes. 

Boil artichokes until very tender. Scrape leaves and rub through 
colander with the hearts. Boil slowly in 1 cup soup stock, add 1 cup 
sweet cream and a large piece of butter. Season with pepper and salt. 

BELLE BLUM. 

Women who know use Crescent Egg Phosphate Baking 1 Powder. 



20 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Dried Pea Soup With Smoked Beef. 

Soak peas over night. In morning put over the fire in cold water 
and parboil. Then throw off water and pour boiling water over them. 
Add 1 medium sized chopped onion and celery cut fine. If celery 
cannot be had, use celery seed tied in a piece of muslin. Boil con- 
stantly 5 or 6 hours, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Season 
with pepper and salt • before serving. Strain through a colander, 
mashing peas. Boil in another kettle a piece of smoked beef and about 
y 2 hour before serving add this to soup. If soup be too thick add 
boiling water. Serve with small squares of toasted or fried bread. 

Rice Tomato Soup. 

Put V 2 pound of rice into a saucepan with 2 quarts of vegetable 
stock and boil until rice is tender. Mix with a can of tomatoes strained 
and 1 ounce butter. Serve it with sippets of toast or croutons of bread 
fried in butter to a delicate brown. MRS. SAM BROWN. 

Royal Soup. 

One cup stale bread crumbs, y 2 cup milk, iy 2 cups scalded milk, 
%y 2 cups white soup stock, 2y 2 tablespoons flour, 2% tablespoons but- 
ter, yolks of 3 hard ooiled eggs, breast meat from a boiled chicken, 
salt ana pepper. Soak bread crumbs in milk, add yolks of eggs rubbed 
through a sieve, and chicken meat also rubbed through a sieve. Add 
gradually milk and chicken stock highly seasoned. Thicken with butter 
and flour cooked together, and season with salt and pepper. 

MRS. F. ROTHCHILD. 

Tomato Soup. 

Boil slowly for y 2 hour and strain the following: 1 can tomatoes, 
2 bay leaves, 3 or 4 sticks celery (if no celery use seed), % onion, salt 
and pepper to taste, and 1 teaspoon butter. Three slices lemon cut 
fine and 1 hard-boiled egg cut fine, also parsley, are to be added just 
before serving. MRS. L. M. STERN. 

Soup Stock. 

Take about 2 pounds beef, either neck or leg, veal and mutton 
bone, ox tail and beef liver and cover with cold water. Put on a tight 
lid and boil slowly for 6 or 8 hours. Put with this celery, onion, tomato, 
carrot, turnip and parsley, an hour or two before straining. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 



RELIANCE 3SB3? 

* ^NATIONAL GROCERY CO., 



DUMPLINGS, ETC., FOR SOUPS 21 

Split Pea Soup. 

Soak peas in lukewarm water over night. Use a quart of peas to a 
gallon of water. Boil about 2 hours with the following vegetables: A 
few potatoes, a large celery root, a little parsley and a little onion. 
When boiled down to half the quantity, take out vegetables and press 
through colander. If soup be too thin, put a piece of butter in a 
saucepan with flour, and add to the peas already strained through 
colander. Serve with toasted bread crusts. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Dumplings, Etc., for Soups 



To the beaten white of 1 egg add 8 blanched almonds finely 
chopped and a pinch of salt. Drop with teaspoon into hot fat and fry a 
light brown. MRS. FRED ROTHCHILD. 

Potato Einlauf for Soup. 

Beat 1 egg, add salt and grated raw potato and drop into boiling 
soup. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Liver Kloese for Soup. 

For the Kloese, use a small liver chopped fine. Take a small piece 
butter, brown with a half onion, add liver, also chopped parsley, two 
spoons flour. Season with nutmeg, red and white pepper, and add two 
eggs. Drop with teaspoon in the boiling soup. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 
Liver Dumplings. 

One pound liver, .% pound suet chopped fine, 1 onion chopped, 2 
cups bread crumbs, salt and pepper, a little nutmeg, 3 eggs, and mix 
well. If not stiff enough add y 2 cup flour. Take mixture in spoon and 
drop in boiling salt water and let cook for about 15 minutes. When 
cooked drain and fry in fine crumbs. 

Schwemchen for Soup. 

Take 2 eggs and one tablespoon butter and stir together. Add % 
cup cracker meal, pinch of salt and a little nutmeg, few chopped al- 
monds and a teaspoon sugar, y 2 teaspoon baking powder. Heat some 
drippings and drop % teaspoon batter at a time. Fry brown, take each 
out and place on a plate and throw in schwemchen in the boiling 
soup stock. 

Almond Balls for Soup. 

One-eighth pound almonds, chopped fine, yolk 1 egg, well-beaten. 
Add almonds to egg, salt and % grated lemon. Beat white stiff and 
mix. Drop little from end of teaspoon into boiling oil or oil and drip- 
ping mixed. Put in soup just before serving. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 



For the "best table salt use R. S. V. P. Ask your friends, if you doubt it. 



22 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Bread Barley Soup. 

Soak stale wheat bread in cold water, press dry as possible, mash 
dry, add a little ginger, pepper, ^alt, chopped parsley, enough egg to 
make a thin batter, stir into bouillon and boil five minutes. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

"Butterfles" or "Krepchen" for Soup. 

Make dough as per recipe for noodles, cutting into squares about 
2y 2 inches square. Fill each one with the following mixture, folding 
them afterwards into little triangles, when they are ready to be 
dropped into the boiling soup: Chop some cold veal or lamb, y 2 an 
onion, a raw egg, salt and pepper and parsley. 

MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Custards for Soup. 

Make a custard of one cup milk and 1 egg well beaten, adding a 
little salt. Bake. When cold cut into dice and add to soup in tureen. 
Add also few cooked peas and slices of lemon. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Cracker Balls for Soup. 

One tablespoon fat creamed, 1 egg, 4 soda crackers rolled fine, salt, 
and trifle of nutmeg. Make into balls and boil 10 or 15 minutes. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Egg Balls for Soup. 

Rub yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs with a little melted butter to a 
paste, add salt and pepper. Beat 2 raw eggs and add to above, with 
enough flour to make them hold together. Make into balls and put in 
soup and boil up well. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Marrow Balis. 

One tablespoon marrow, y 2 tablespoon dripping, yolk of 1 egg, then 
add stiffly beaten white, cracker meal enough to roil and a little salt. 
Boil about ten minutes in soup. MRS. SAM BROWN. 

Croutons. 
Heat some butter or fat in a spider. Cut up about two Slices of 
stale bread into small dice pieces, put them into a spider and brown 
on both sides. Brown nicely, but do not let them burn. Serve with 
split pea soup, bean and potato soup. 

Egg Einlauf. 
One egg well beaten, add little salt and y 2 tablespoon water and 
mix with a very little flour. Drop into boiling soup. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 



ELIANCE c vS£ 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



DUMPLINGS, ETC., FOR SOUPS 



23 



Egg Barley (for Soup). 

Make a stiff noodle dough, grate it, then dry in the oven until a 
light brown. Half a cup will be sufficient for four plates of soup. 

MRS. S. FRAUENTHAL. 

"Matzo Kloese" or Cracker Balls. 

Cream two tablespoons dripping and add two well beaten eggs, half 
a grated onion, a small cup of water, salt and pepper. After thor- 
oughly stirring add slowly sufficient matzo meal to form a batter 
that will roll easily with the moistened hands. Do not add too much 
meal, or the "Kloese" will be tough. It will improve them if allowed 
to stand twenty minutes before forming into balls. Drop in the boil- 
ing soup. MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Two eggs, butter size of walnut, 3 tablespoons sour cream, flour 
enough to make rather stiff dough. Knead, roll out very thin and cut 
into narrow strips. Cook about 20 or 30 minutes. 

German Noodles. 

Two eggs, half teaspoon salt, flour to make a very stiff dough. 
Beat the eggs slightly, add salt and the flour gradually. Knead until 
dough is smooth and quite stiff. Roll very thin. Cover with a towel 
and set aside to dry about twenty minutes. Fold the dough, or cut 
into broad strips lengthwise, and then into very fine strips crosswise, 
if wanted for soup. About one-half inch wide, if wanted as a vege- 
table. They may be dried and kept in a jar, covered with cheesecloth. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 



GOLD SHIELD COFFEE 
GOLD SHIELD TEA 



ALWAYS GOOD 
ALL GROCERS 



24 



OXE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Fish 



Fish is considered by medical authorities to be the best brain food, 
besides being one of the most easily digested. The first consideration 
in buying fish is its freshness, and it should be cleaned as soon as 
brought to the house, wiped dry, sprinkled with a little salt and placed 
in the ice-box. Fresh fish have firm flesh, plump eyes and red gills. 
Fish must be cooked carefully, as underdone fish is unpalatable as 
well as unwholesome, while too much cooking destroys the flavor. 

Fried Fish. 

Clean fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in flour or crumbs, 
then in egg and again in crumbs. Let stand few minutes. Then fry a 
golden brown in deep fat. 

Broiled Fish. 

Split a thin fish down the back or cut thick fish into slices and 
remove skin and bones. Oily fish need only salt and pepper, but dry 
fish should be spread with flakes of butter before broiling. Use double 
wire broiler and grease it. Cook about 8 to 12 minutes. Move the 
broiler so that it broils evenly. Broil over clean fire or in hot broiling 
gas oven. Remove to a hot platter, spread with slices of lemon and 
garnish with parsley. 

Butter Sauce Fish. 

Wash and salt your slices of fish for several hours. To about 
3 pounds of fish take a good sized onion sliced, a carrot cut in round 
slices, a few sprigs of parsley. Let the water, which should almost 
cover the fish, boil with the vegetables for a few minutes. Place your 
fish in the stewpan. Put in a good piece of butter, some ground white 
pepper, and a dash of cinnamon. Let boil for about 20 minutes, taste 
and add more salt or pepper if desired. Have ready the yolks of 4 
eggs well beaten, with a heaping teaspoonful of flour. Place your fish 
on a platter, strain the sauce, then return to kettle, pour over the 
eggs. When the liqiud boils, pour the egg mixture slowly into the 
kettle, stirring constantly for about 2 minutes. Do not take your spoon 
out of the gravy or your sauce will curdle. Strain into your gravy 
boat, leaving some to pour over the fish. Garnish with the sliced car- 
rots and parsley minced. MRS. M. WILZINSKI. 



:UANCE53KS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



FISH 25 



Planked Fish. 

Fish is planked when baked on a board in the oven. The board 
must be very hot. Place the fish on board, then season with salt and 
pepper and a little butter. Place the skin down on the board. Brush 
with butter and with salt and pepper. Baste often with melted butter 
and bake until golden brown. Serve with parsley, lemon or pickle 
sliced. White fish is best served in this style. 

Cod Fish Balls. 

Put the fish to soak over night in lukewarm water. Change again 
in the morning and wash off all the salt. Cut into pieces and boil 
about 15 minutes, pour off this water and put on to boil again with 
boiling water. Boil 20 minutes this time, drain off every bit of water, 
put on a platter to cool and pick to pieces as fine as possible, removing 
every bit of skin and bone. When this is done, add an equal quantity 
of mashed potatoes, a lump of butter, a very little salt and pepper, 
beat up one or two eggs, a little milk if necessary, and work all in a 
dough. Flour your hands well and form into cakes. Fry in hot butter 
or dripping. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Pickled Carp. 

After cleaning a carp, making as small an opening as possible, tie 
up the head, put the fish in a fish kettle, pour over boiling vinegar. 
After a few minutes add a tumblerful of red wine, seasoning and 
2 carrots and 3 onions, cut into slices, and a small quantity each of 
sage, thyme, laurel leaves, parsley, cloves and garlic, and then set the 
kettle on the fire and allow it to simmer gently for an hour. Let the 
fish remain in this until quite cold, when it will be ready to serve. 

Finnan Haddie. 

Put finnan haddie in pan of cold water. Let come to a boil. Re- 
move and shred. Make a rich cream sauce and add finnan haddie. 
Serve with minced parsley on toast. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Fish Croquettes. 

Any cold fish chopped fine. Make thick cream sauce, using y 2 cup- 
ful cream, thicken with cracker meal, add 1 egg, chopped parsley. Let 
mixture cool, form into cakes, dip in egg and cracker meal and fry. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Fish in Oil. 

For about 3 slices of salmon take 2 tablespoonfuls oil, put in iron 
pan and heat red hot, then stir in 1 tablespoonful flour and rub very 
smooth. Add enough cold water for gravy. Have small piece of onion 
and lots of parsley chopped very fine. Add to this also a pinch of 
garlic, salt, pepper and tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce, put in fish, 
and just shake pot so fish does not burn. Cook about 20 minutes. 

MRS. ABRAMS. 

For quick service, elegant rooms and the best cafe, stop at the Butler 
Hotel while in Seattle. 



26 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Fish au Gratin. 

Wash and clean, salt and pepper fish and put in a buttered 
baking pan. Make a rich well-seasoned tomato sauce, add soup and 
sherry and pour over the fish. Put cracker crumbs on the fish. Ar- 
range oysters, shrimps and mushrooms on fish and put in pan. Bake 
in oven for half an hour, basting occasionally, and sprinkle a little 
finely chopped parsley on a few minutes after taking from the oven. 
Serve in dish in which the fish has been baked. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Fish With Oysters. 

Take sole and make into filets, put an oyster on each filet, roll 
and stick a toothpick through to hold, boil in water well seasoned 
with vegetables, salt and pepper (which has boiled about 20 minutes 
before putting in the fish), about 10 or 15 minues, and serve with a 
cream sauce with yolk of an egg and oysters mixed in. 

MRS. E. MICHAEL, Spokane. 

Fish Louie. 

iy 2 pounds halibut in one piece, 4 large potatoes, 1 onion, a little 
rind of lemon, a pinch of mace and % teaspoonful of pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of anchovy paste, NO salt. Chop onion, fry a light brown in 
butter in a large frying pan, place halibut in center, cut potatoes into 
cubes y 2 inch in size, and place around the dish. Add grated rind of 
lemon, mace and pepper, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Let it 
simmer ten minutes, in cold water, using just enough to cover fish and 
potatoes. MRS. L. A. MORGENSTERN, New York. 

Halibut and Spinach. 

Bake piece of halibut or any white fish with butter and little water, 
and baste often. Sauce — Make rich cream sauce with cheese, flavor 
with paprika and 1 tablespoonful of fish gravy. Make spinach puree, 
and spread on baking platter and put fish in, then sauce, and put in 
oven to heat up thoroughly. MRS. DINKELSPIEL. 

Fish Balls. 

Grind 1 pound halibut, chop fine 1 large onion and simmer it in 1 
tablespoonful butter. Remove crust from % loaf stale white bread and 
soak in cold water. Remove bones and chop 2 sardelles after soaking 
in water. Add white pepper, salt, cayenne pepper and nutmeg. Press 
water from bread and fry a light brown in butter. Scramble 2 eggs 
lightly in butter. Stir all of the above ingredients together and add 2 
raw eggs and mix. Place in buttered custard cups and let steam 1 
hour. Sauce— Mayonnaise with capers. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 



:liance c «e 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



FISH 27 



Fish Balls. 



For six i eople. Take 2 pounds halibut and salmon, equal parts, 
soak 3 slices of bread in water, squeeze out lightly, add 3 whole eggs, 
1 cup cold water, grated onion, pepper and salt to taste. Mix together 
and make into balls. Cook carrot, onion, celery and parsley in a little 
water about 15 minutes, then put in the balls to boil, add a good slice 
of butter, a little sugar and boil slowly l 1 ^ hours. When done lift out 
carefully on platter, stir gravy into the yolks of 3 eggs and stir on 
fire until thick. Don't boil. MRS. J. KOLEMAN. 

Flaked Fish. 

Line a buttered baking dish with flaked cod or halibut, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, cover with layer of oysters (first dipped in melted 
butter, seasoned with onion juice, lemon juice, little cayenne and then 
in cracker meal). Add 2 tablespoonfuls oyster liquor and little milk; 
repeat and cover with cracker crumbs and bits of butter. Bake 20 
minutes in hot oven. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Fish a la Brunswick. 

Cook any large fish in salt water (salmon is particularly nice 
prepared in this style). Add 1 cup of vinegar, onions, celery root and 
parsley. When the fish is cooked enough remove it from the fire, kettle 
and all, letting the fish remain in its sauce until the following sauce 
is prepared. Take 2 hard-boiled eggs, rub the yolks with 2 raw yolks; 
add 1 teaspoonful of prepared mustard, some salt, pepper, sweet butter, 
some vinegar and lemon juice. Take parsley, green onions, capers, 
shallots and 1 large vinegar pickle and some astragon, chop all up very 
fine, as fine as possible; chop up the hard-boiled whites separately, 
and then add the sauce; mix all this together thoroughly, then if nec- 
essary season more highly. 

Baked Halibut. 

Zy 2 pounds halibut in one piece, skin and take out center bone, mak- 
ing two flat pieces. Butter a baking pan, and lay in one piece of fish. 
Add salt and pepper, then the other piece. Pour over the following 
mixture well beaten: A pint of milk, 2 eggs, 2 soda crackers broken 
into bits, a little nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Dot with butter and bake 
from 20 to 30 minutes, basting frequently with the custard as it forms 
in the pan. Serve with a hollandaise sauce made as follows: % cupful 
butter, well creamed, juice of a lemon, 2 eggs beaten in. salt, and pa- 
prika, y 2 teaspoonful flour. Put in double boiler and pour over a cup 
of boiling water, and stir until it thickens. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Fish With Hollandaise Sauce. 

Two pounds raw halibut, 1 cupful cream, V 2 pound butter, 3 eggs 
(whites beaten separately), 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Shred fish from 
skin and bone, chop fine, add cream slowly and pass through a sieve. 
Add other ingredients, whites last. Butter a pudding mold, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley. Boil iy 2 hours and serve with hollandaise sauce, 
for which see above recipe. 

Open a saving's account today with the State Bank of Seattle. 



28 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Deviled Halibut. 

Boil 10 cents halibut the day before in salt water. Shred and add 
stalk of celery chopped fine, chopped parsley, good tablespoonful Wor- 
cestershire and some catsup, cayenne, white pepper and salt. Mix this 
with a cream sauce, previously prepared as follows: Melt piece of 
butter size of walnut. Put in iy 2 teaspoonsfuls flour and enough milk 
to make smooth. A yolk of egg thrown in just before removing from 
fire greatly improves the cream sauce. Butter the ramakins and put 
in above mixture, covering each one with a little cracker meal and a 
small piece of butter. Bake 20 minutes. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Halibut a la Newburg. 

Boil about 1 pound halibut, and run through colander, beat until 
very light, add 5 eggs, 1 at a time, beating continuously. Next add a 
little bread soaked in cream. Season highly. Butter tins and put fish 
in, place in oven about 20 minutes. Serve hot with following sauce: 
Put 2 tablespoonfuls flour in pan with butter size of egg. Place on 
stove, and when well melted, not browned, add about 2 cupfuls cream. 
When about to boil add 3 yolks of eggs (well beaten with a dash of 
water to keep from curdling), let all come to boil and pour over fish. 
Add little chopped parsley and serve either hot or cold. If desired, 
oys^rs, mushrooms and shrimps may be added the last minute. 

CARRIE A. FORTLOUIS. 

Chicken Halibut. 

Boil a piece of halibut in water in which all kinds of vegetables 
have been put. When boiled, shred halibut, add 2 hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine, catsup, chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Put 
thi^ mixture in a poulette sauce to let and heat. MRS. E. MARX. 

Halibut Timbales. 

Boil iy 2 pounds of halibut; remove bones and skin and chop fine. 
Season with salt and pepper. Soak two cups of bread crumbs in milk. 
Drain. Add to fish with three eggs, one quarter cup of melted butter 
and a little thick cream. Chop fine half a can of mushrooms and add. 
Butter timbale moulds and fill with fish. Bake about twenty minutes 
in a pan of hot water. Serve with following sauce: 

Sauce — 1 cup of cream, 1 cup of chicken broth. Put in a double 
boiler. Season and add 2 tablespoonfuls butter, yolk of two eggs 
and two teaspoonfuls flour. Let thicken and add half a can chopped 
mushrooms and a tablespoon chopped parsley. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 



.LIHIiUl. vegetables 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



FISH 29 



Halibut or Salmon Cheeks. 
Season with salt and pepper. Dip in beaten egg and cracker meal 
and fry in butter. Serve with a tartar sauce. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Halibut and Lobster. 
Take iy 2 pounds raw halibut, bone and pick, chop fine, add salt, 
pepper and beaten whites of 5 eggs, 1 cup whipped cream. Pack into 
mould and bake 30 minutes. Serve in the center of a platter with 
lobster a la Newburg all around it. 

Halibut Cutlets. 

Sauce — Take piece butter one-half the size of an egg, 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour, 1 cup milk. Stir and cook until very thick. Let cool, stir in 
yolks 2 eggs, red pepper, little lemon juice, season. Spread this on 
thick slices halibut, dip in cracker meal and fry. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Halibut Cutlets. 
Remove the skin and bone from enough halibut to give 1 pound. 
Pass this twice through a food chopper. Work into the fish, first a 
quarter of a cupful of butter that has been beaten to a cream, then 
3 tablespoonfuls of cream, a generous y 2 teaspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper and a few drops onion juice. Form into cutlets and chill. Roll 
in sifted bread crumbs, cover completely with an egg diluted with a 
little water. Roll again, in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Garnish with 
parsley and thin slices of lemon. Serve with a sauce. 

MRS. ELLIS H. GROSS. 
Mackerel. 

Soak mackerel 48 hours, changing the water once. Put in a pan 
large enough to fit the fish, cover them with cream. Put in oven and 
cook till cream is brown. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Marinirte (Pickled) Herring. 
Take new Holland herring, remove the heads and scales, wash well, 
open them and take out the milch and lay the herring and milch in 
milk or water over night. Next day lay the herring in a stone jar 
with alternate layers of onions cut up, also lemon cut in slices, a few 
cloves, whole peppers and a few bay leaves, some capers and whole 
mustard seed. Now take the milch and rub it through a hair sieve, 
the more of them you have the better for the sauce; stir in a spoonful 
of brown sugar and some vinegar and pour it over the herring. Will 
keep for a long time. 

Baked Fish With Sardelles. 
Take a trout, split it as for broiling and remove center bone. Place 
on a buttered platter, skin side down, cover with one-half cup butter 
one fourth pound sardelles which have been soaked in water and 
chopped fine, cayenne pepper and a little cracker dust. Bake in hot 
oven one-half hour. Serve on small platter. 

Frottas & Levitt Bros, are complete House Furnishers. 2200 First Ave. 



30 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Boiled Salmon Trout. 

To fish covered with cold water, add salt and one cup of vinegar, 
one onion, celery and parsley, boil until tender and let cool. Then 
prepare the following sauce: Put together yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs and two raw eggs, one cup of cream stirred in one cupful vine- 
gar, one teaspoonful of sugar. Be sure and stir cream into vinegar. 
Chop the whites of hard-boiled eggs, parsley, celery, green onions, 
capers and chopped pickles. Mix the whole together. Place the fish 
on platter and allow the sauce to boil until it coats the spoon. Then 
pour over the fish. It may be eaten hot or cold. 

Baked Salmon With Oyster Sauce. 

Take a two-pound salmon, completely cover it with water and sea- 
son with a handful salt. Add one onion, % wineglassful wine, vinegar, 
whole peppers, two cloves and parsley. Place kettle over brisk fire 
and boil for 35 minutes. Remove from fire and drain it well. Dress it 
on a hot dish with a folded napkin. Serve with one pint of hot oyster 
sauce in a sauce boat. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Baked Salmon Trout With Tomato Sauce. 

Put small trout in a flat roasting pan. Rub all over with lemon 
juice. Season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle cracker meal over top 
and put on bits of butter. Pour over a cup of tomatoes and a half 
cup of water. Bake twenty minutes, basting frequently. Put a little 
Worcestershire sauce and tomato catsup in gravy. Just before serving 
add 1 pint of oysters to sauce and let come to a quick boil. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Chaudfroid of Salmon. 

iy 2 -pounds salmon cooked in salted water to which has been added 
y 2 an onion, 2 bay leaves, stalk of celery, few whole peppers. 
When cooked remove bones and skin and flake the salmon. Then 
mix 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon dry mustard, little 
cayenne, add 1 egg slightly beaten, 2 tablespoons vinegar, % cup milk. 
Cook in double boiler until thick, stirring often. Add 2 teaspoons 
gelatine dissolved in cold water and remove from fire. Add to fish and 
put in mold to set. Serve with sliced cucumbers and pimolas on let- 
tuce leaves. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Salmon Loaf. 

To one can of salmon add three beaten eggs, a lump of butter and 
some cracker crumbs; make into a loaf and steam one hour. Cook 
peas in cream and pour over loaf to serve. A little parsley adds to 
the flavor if desired. MRS. E. J. SPEAR. 



•LIANCE'v'SS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



FISH 31 



Pickled Salmon. 
Scale, clean and wash your salmon thoroughly; put in a pot of boil- 
ing water with onion, bay leaves, parsley and salt. When cooked, place 
in a colander and let dry — cut in three or four pieces and place in a 
stone jar; cover witn vinegar; add red pepper, whole allspice and bay 
leaves. This takes about a week or ten days before it is ready to use. 

MRS. I. E.MOSBS. 
Salmon Croquettes. 
One can salmon, a little grated onion, 2 eggs, 2 slices of soaked 
bread, pepper and salt. Take one-third pound butter, melted, add a 
heaping tablespoon of flour, pour about iy 2 cups of milk over this and 
let boil until thick, then add the salmon, and take off to get cool. Then 
add cracker crumbs until stiff enough to mold. Fry in fat or butter. 

MRS. H. ELSTER. 
Stuffed Smelts. 
One pound halibut pounded tine, little sherry and season. Make a 
cream sauce and add to mixture so as to be able to form into cro- 
quettes. Put a little of this mixture in each boned smelt and put tail 
through head, roll in egg and cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat; 
drain on paper and serve with tartar sauce. MRS. SAM BROWN. 

Smelts Bordelaise. 
Two tablespoonfuls butter in frying pan, a clove of garlic and y 2 
an onion cut fine and cooked in the butter until yellow. Add % 
cup water, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 2 bay leaves and a little 
chopped celery. Place the boned smelts in this and cook about 10 
minutes. Smooth 1 teaspoon flour in cup of milk and add to other 
ingredients and boil up well. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Scalloped Fish. 

Three pounds of fish boiled in vegetable water and boned. Butter 
ramakins. sprinkle with bread crumbs and put in layers of fish. 
Sprinkle with grated almonds and add another layer of fish, then cover 
with hot tomato sauce and sprinkle bread crumbs on top. Bake 15 or 
20 minutes. 

Sole au Gratin. 

Season fish, put in buttered pan. Put piece of butter, bread 
crumbs, spoonful catsup or tomato on each sole. When nearly baked 
add y 2 cup oysters, y 2 cup mushrooms, a few shrimps, y 2 cup sherry or 
white wine. If not enough gravy, add % cup soup-stock. Serve hot. 

MRS. E. MARX. 
Sole Gratin. 

Butter pan well, then put the sole in well seasoned, put small 
pieces of butter all over and around fish, some bread crumbs, some 
chopped parsley, also mushrooms, shrimps, oysters. Make gravy of y 2 
can of tomatoes, first frying chopped onion in bit of butter and add- 
ing some oysters and mushrooms, some white wine, bouillon and Wor- 
cestershire sauce. Strain all this and when cool pour over fish and 
bake 20 to 30 minutes.- MRS. A. BASTHEIM. 

L. W. Suter, the Jeweler, will do the most trivial repair work as agree- 
ably as he will sell you a diamond. 



32 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Stuffed Smelts. 

Two pounds of smelts, boned, 1 pound of halibut chopped very fine 
Add to halibut, salt and pepper. Place in pan 1 tablespoonful butter, 
melt and add iy 2 tablespoons flour, when yellow add 1 cup of milk or 
cream, add 2 tablespoons of sherry, smoothing carefully. Take from 
fire and add the halibut, mix well, and add the beaten whites of two 
eggs. Fill smelts with the mixture and place on buttered pan. Season 
with salt and pepper and dust with cracker meal and add bits of butter. 
Bake from 10 to 15 minutes in hot oven. 

Sauce — A large onion chopped very fine. Put in pan with y 2 cup 
butter, cook until this becomes yellow and add two tablespoons chopped 
parsley and juice of a lemon and a little paprika. Remove from the 
fire and beat well, adding % to y 2 a cup of butter gradually. When 
cold form into small balls and serve with the fish, which has been laid 
on a bed of lettuce. MRS. S. ARONSOX. 

Salmon Timbales en Surprise. 

One pound of raw salmon, 1 tablespoon (level) butter, y 2 cup 
cream sauce, y 2 ^teaspoon salt, 1 dash of paprika, *4 teaspoon tabasco 
sauce, white of one egg, a little nutmeg or mace, y 2 cup. cream beaten 
stiff. Remove the skin and bone from salmon, pound to a pulp, add 
the butter, cream sauce and seasoning, pound again, press through a 
sieve, let cool. Lastly, fold in lightly the whipped cream and the 
white of egg beaten stiff. Thoroughly butter the timbale forms, line 
the bottoms with paper and line the molds with this force meat; 
place into the center of each timbale some creamed oyster mixture. 
(See recipe for oyster mixture). Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

MRS. I. BROWN. 
Salmon Turbot. 

One large can salmon, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk, 1 cup sifted flour, y± 
cup butter. Heat milk and half the butter, stir into it the flour which 
has been mixed smooth in a little water. Salt and let cook until 
stiff, stirring to prevent burning. When cold, stir in eggs well beaten. 
Have baking dish ready, fill with layers of mixture and salmon alter- 
nately. Sprinkle layer of rolled crackers on top, moisten with milk 
and put balance of butter in bits over all. Bake 20 minutes. Serve hot. 

Smelts Bearnaise. 

Split 12 large smelts down the back remove backbones, rub them 
with one tablespoonful of oil and season with salt and pepper. Broil in 
double broiler 2 minutes on each side, pour a little Bernaise sauce on a 
dish; arrange smelts on top. MRS. S. ARONSON. 



"1 lAtl^F CANNED FRUITS 
iLIANCb VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



FISH 33 



Stuffed Filet of Sole. 

For 12 persons. One filet of sole for each person, season well. 
Make an incision in each piece and fill with the following mixture: 
4 to 6 filets of sole put through a meat grinder, well mixed with % 
pint thick cream and white of 4 eggs; pound a long time and season 
highly. One boned smelt for each filet, opened out and placed on 
top of filled sole, and a little of the mixture placed in the center. Put 
two button mushrooms and a truffle on top of each. Put filets close to- 
gether in buttered baking pan and cover with white wine with little 
mushroom catsup. Baste often. When baked thicken gravy with little 
butter and flour and add small quantity of anchovy sauce. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Sweet and Sour Fish. 

Wash and salt some salmon. Let stand several hours. Cut the 
slices lengthwise so as to be able to handle the fish. Take \y 2 cupfuls 
white wine vinegar, the juice of 4 lemons, a few whole peppers, allspice, 
cloves, a small stick cinnamon, few bay leaves, large onion, y 2 cupful 
seeded raisins. Put this all in a stewpan and cook with fish. Brown 
y 2 cupful white sugar, pour over it y 2 cupful boiling water. Pour on 
the fish iy 2 cupfuls granulated sugar, then the melted sugar, let boil 
together about 20 minutes. Take off the fire and place slices of fish 
on a platter. Strain the sauce into a bowl and put raisins on the fish. 
Pour the sauce back again into the pan. Have ready the yolks of 4 
eggs well beaten, to which add a little water, when sauce boils add 
gently to the eggs and let boil about five minutes, stirring constantly. 
Then strain. Pour part over fish, the balance in a bowl. Spread sliced 
lemon on top. MRS. M. WILZINSKI. 

Sweet and Sour Fish. 

Salt the fish the previous day. Line a fish kettle with slices of 
onion and celery root. Lay the fish upon this, adding water enough 
barely to cover. Add a piece of fresh butter, 2 slices of lemon, a little 
vinegar and a few cloves. Allow the fish to boil uncovered, and in the 
meantime soak 3 ginger snaps in a little vinegar. Add a few raisins, 
a handful of pounded almonds, y 2 teaspoonful cinnamon. Take a handful 
of brown sugar, place in a tin with few drops of water. Let same get 
a very dark brown, then add to above sauce and add to fish. Allow 
the fish to boil a few moments longer. If necessary, add more 
sugar. MRS. B. BORIES. 

Sharfe Fish. 

A little sweet oil, finely chopped onion browned with a little flour. 
Add water to make the desired quantity, then add pepper and salt 
to taste, chopped parsley and a little garlic finely cut. Put in fish and 
boil until tender. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Shad Roe With Oysters. 

Clean well, wash and wipe, have in frying pan some hot fat, place 
roe in it and fry a nice brown on both sides, taking care not to let 
burn. Cook twenty minutes. Season with salt, pepper. Take up on 
a platter and place around it one or two rows fried oysters. Lay sprig 
of parsley in center and slice of lemon. 

There is a firm out in North Seattle that has a Rangre well worth 
mentioning* — The "Star Estate." 



34 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Stuffed Anchovies. 

Split open anchovies, wash well in white wine and bone them. 
Mince a little cooked fish of any kind, place in a basin with very fine 
bread crumbs. Make into paste by adding yolk of egg. Stuff ancho- 
vies with this mixture. Dip into frying batter. Plunge into a frying 
pan of boiling fat and fry to a light yellow. Take out when done. 
Drain and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. MRS. S. BROWN. 

Baked Shad, Stuffed With Oysters. 

Take 1 large shad, make stuffing of grated bread crumbs, flakes 
of butter, salt, pepper and oysters. Stuff the fish and sew it up. Lay 
it in a baking pan with a cupful of water to keep it from burning. Bake 
an hour, basting often with pieces of butter and the water in pan. 
Bake until brown. When done lay the fish on a hot platter and cover 
tightly while you boil up gravy with a spoonful of brown flour which 
has been wet with a little cold water and the juice of part of a lemon. 
Serve sauce in sauceboat and garnish the fish with sliced lemon and 
parsley. 

Striped Bass. 

Take fish and clean well, and slice in 4 or 5 pieces. Cover with 
water and add 1 onion sliced and seasoned highly. Let boil till you 
have about 1 cup broth. Take out fish. Take 4 yolks of eggs and stir 
well, and add to broth. Then add 1 cup sweet cream and 1 teaspoonful 
sweet butter. Mix well and put on stove to boil. Stir slowly till it 
thickens. Watch carefully not to curdle. Take fish off bones in pieces 
and put in dish. Pour the sauce over the fish and put away to cool. 
To serve turn out on dish, and if desired serve with noodles and white 
potatoes. MRS. K. GOTTSTEIN. 

Trout a la Marguerite. 

Six small sized trout cut in half and seasoned. Boil y 2 an hour in 
2 cups of water, y 2 an onion, a small carrot, few sprigs of parsley, a bay 
leaf, a stalk of celery, salt, pepper, a piece of butter, pinch of sugar, 
pinch of ginger, pinch of cinnamon. Strain and boil fish in this sauce 
for 20 minutes. Remove fish from saucepan and keep hot and put sauce 
back and add to it the juice from a pint of oysters, teaspoonful parme- 
san cheese, teaspoonful flour well mixed with milk, y 2 pint cream, 
yolks of 3 eggs well beaten. When this boils, add the pint of oysters, 
1 can mushrooms chopped fine, 1 pound shrimps and a few truffles. 
Serve hot. MRS. S. ARONSON. 



RELIANCE 3SK3? 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES 35 



Fish and Meat Sauces 



Mock Hollandaise Sauce. 

Two tablespoons of vinegar, y 2 dozer pepper corns, % cup white 
sauce, juice of y 2 lemon, y 2 cup butter. Put pepper corns in vinegar, 
set on fire, boil a few minutes, remove pepper, add cream sauce, % 
cup butter well creamed, and 2 eggs well beaten, boil two or three 
minutes; remove from stove and add % cup butter bit by bit. 

MRS. I. BROWN. 
White Sauce. 

One cup milk or cream, 1 round tablespoon butter, 1 round table- 
spoon flour, salt and pepper to taste, a little lemon juice. Melt butter, 
add flour, rub until smooth; slowly add milk or cream, stirring con- 
stantly, until thick; add seasoning. MRS. I. BROWN. 

Sauce for Baked Fish. 
Melt one heaping tablespoon of butter over fire, add half teaspoon 
dry mustard, one hard boiled egg, the white choped fine and the juice of 
one lemon. Add salt and paprika to suit the taste. Pour over fish. 

MRS. H. W. FRIEDLANDER 

Mushroom Sauce. 
Put a quarter of a pound mushrooms in a saucepan with three 
shallots chopped and some parsley. Pour enough gravy stock to cover 
the mushrooms, and season. Mix some butter and flour and add. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Drawn Butter Sauce for Fish. 
Half cup butter melted with one tablespoon flour. Stir into this one 
pint boiling water, little lemon juice, and season well. Add one egg, 
beaten lightly, and a little minced parsley. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Egg Sauce 

Two tablespoons butter in pan; when hot add two tablespoons flour, 
stir until smooth, and add gradually one cup cold milk. When thick add 
beaten yolks of two eggs and a little chopped parsley. Then add two 
hard boiled eggs chopped fine. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Horse Radish Sauce. 
Grate a good-sized stick of horse radish. Take some soup stock and 
a spoon of fat, salt and pepper to taste, a little grated stale bread and 
a few pounded almonds. Let all boil up. Very nice to serve with soup 
meat. 

Tartar Sauce. 
Mix mayonnaise with chopped pickles, capers and olives; also 
chopped onion, if liked. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

If you want the best scissors, see that you buy a "Colonial" Siake. 



36 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Lemon Sauce for Fish. 

Two lemons, two yolks of eggs, one teaspoon sugar, one cup of hot 
fish stock, salt to taste, chopped parsley. Stir the grated rind of the 
lemons with the well beaten yolks, add the juice and very gradually 
pour on the hot fish stock. Cook until thick, stirring constantly. Add 
the sugar and parsley. Serve with fish cooked in boiling water to which 
salt, onion, whole pepper, parsley and a tablespoon of lemon juice has 
been added. You can add more yolks of eggs or thicken with little 
cornstarch. 

Sauce Allemande. 

To two cups thick white sauce, add gradually the beaten yolk of 
an egg, stirring constantly. Then add half tablespoon lemon juice. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Take three or four filleted anchovies and beat them in a mortar 
with three ounces of butter. Put this anchovy butter into a stewpan 
with a wineglass full of water, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar and a table 
spoonful of flour previously rubbed down smooth with water. Stir over 
the fire until it thickens, and then rub it through a coarse hair sieve. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 
Half cup butter, add salt, cayenne and yolks of two eggs, juice of 
one lemon, one cup boiling water; stir constantly over slow fire until 
thick. Thicken with a little flour and water if necessary. 

MRS. MAX SCHUBACH. 
Italian Sauce for Tongue. 
Little butter, in which brown onion and carrot; add flour, and 
when smooth add the required quantity of soup stock and some chopped 
pickles. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Mustard Sauce. 
Three tablespoons prepared mustard, three tablespoons oil, two 
tablespoons tomato catsup; season with salt, pepper and lemon. Par- 
ticularly nice for artichokes and asparagus. 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Butter creamed, chopped parsley, lemon juice and paprika. Make 
into balls for steak or fish. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Piquant Sauce. 

Chop very fine three mushrooms, one shallot and small carrot; 
melt one ounce butter in saucepan and fry them until nicely browned. 
Stir in two tablespoonsful flour and one-half pint soup stock, add a bay 
leaf, one or two sprigs thyme, one tablespoonful of Panyan sauce. Stir 
over the fire till boiling; then cook over a slow fire for 20 minutes. 
Stir in one-third teacupful vinegar, season to taste with salt, pepper and 
cayenne; strain sauce. MRS. SAM BROWN. 



■LIANGE1SS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO^ 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES 37 



Sauce for Boiled Salmon. 
A teaspoon of dry mustard, yolks of two eggs, stir both together 
until smooth. Then add four tablespoons of best olive oil and stir con- 
stantly. Add the juice of two lemons and a little salt and pepper. Be- 
fore serving add to this a half cup rich cream. 

Cold Salmon Sauce. 
Beat yolks of two eggs with three tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning 
with salt and cayenne pepper. Pour into a lined stewpan; stir sauce 
until thickened and on the point of boiling. Let it get cold; stir occa- 
sionally. Mix with one wineglassful vinegar and serve. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Oyster Sauce. 
Boil oysters in their own liquor; then strain, reserving the liquor. 
Put one ounce butter in saucepan with tablespoonful flour, stir over 
fire. Pour in oyster liquor and stir until boiling, adding as much milk 
as required. A blade of mace and a bay leaf tied together, salt, pepper 
and cayenne. Boil sauce a few moments. Remove mace and bay leaf 
and squeeze in juice of half a lemon and serve. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Sauce for Asparagus or Cabbage. 

Season with nutmeg, pepper and salt about half a teacupful of boil- 
ing water; add the yolks of two eggs and whisk it by the side of a fire, 
but do not let it boil. Add gradually a quarter of a pound of butter, 
broken into small pieces, and continue stirring until it has the ap- 
pearance of smooth cream. Add a small quantity of lemon juice and 
serve in a sauce boat. This is a very good sauce to be served with 
cold slaw. 

Sauce Bearnalse Delmonico. 

Chop one small onion and one clove of garlic and place in a small 
saucepan on hot stove with four tablespoonfuls taragon vinegar and 
four whole crushed peppers. Reduce until nearly dry and put away to 
cool. Strain and mix with six yolks, stirring briskly and gradually, and 
add one and one-half ounces good butter, salt and little cayenne. Put 
the same pan into a large one that has boiling water in it; thoroughly 
heat it, and stir hard. When sauce is firm add one tablespoon of strong 
soup stock. Strain all and serve hot with meat. 



If you are in doubt about the exact etiquette in wording* your invita- 
tions, Lowman & Hanford will help you, and print them very reasonably 
besides. 



38 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Shell Fish 



The principal shell fish obtained on this coast are oysters, crabs, 
shrimps and clams. It is absolutely imperative that they should be 
fresh. The oyster is the most edible, delicious and nutritious of its 
species, and can be served in a great variety of ways. The small 
ones have the finest flavor. Never salt oysters for soups or stews 
until just before removing them from the fire, or they will shrivel 
up, and always serve immediately after cooking. 

Clam Balls. 
Put into bowl 1 cup sifted flour, yolk of 1 egg, little salt, 1 table- 
spoonful butter melted, enough ice water to form batter that will drop 
from a spoon. Mix thoroughly until mixture is full of bubbles; then 
add V 2 pint chopped clams and beaten white of the egg. Fry by 
spoonful in hot lard. Garnish with small pickles and parsley. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Clam Croquettes. 
Chop 1 cupful of drained clams. Add 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, 3 eggs, pepper, salt, a little grated onion, lemon juice and 
enough cracker meal to mould into croquettes. Use as little cracker 
meal as possible so mixture will be light. Fry croquettes quickly in 
butter and serve on lettuce leaves with tartar sauce. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Clams a la Bordelaise. 
Take small little neck clams. Make a brown sauce of large 
slice butter with minced onion, garlic, little water and soup stock. 
Thicken with flour. Put clams in sauce to cook. Season well and 
add chopped parsley. Serve on toast. 

MRP E. MORGANSTERN. 

Crab Poulette. 
Line dish with mashed potatoes. Pick crab into small pieces. 
Melt a good sized piece of butter, and to it add about iy 2 tablespoon- 
fuls flour. Then add a little milk and let it boil until it gets thick. 
Season the dressing with red pepper. Put the crab into the sauce 
and let it boil four or five minutes; then put into the potato-lined 
dish, sprinkle the top with bread crumbs, and put into oven to bake 
for about 20 minutes. MRS. M. PRAGER. 



:UANCE39K3 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



SHELL FISH 39 



Canape Lorenzo. 

Chop a medium sized shallot, fry lightly without coloring in 2 
ounces of butter. Add a tablespoonful of flour and wet with a pint 
of cream. Add 1 pound of crab meat, salt and pepper, and leave on 
the fire until it has just begun to bubble. Cut slices of bread y 2 
of an inch thick, trim in any desired shape, either round, oval or 
square, and toast on one side only. Put your ingredients on the 
toasted side and cover them with a layer one-eighth of an inch thick 
of butter prepared as follows: % of a pound of butter and y 2 pound 
grated Parmesan cheese. Mix well together and season with red and 
white pepper. Put your canapes on a buttered dish and color in the 
oven. 

Deviled Crab. 

Chop considerable celery and green pepper very fine. Add the 
picked meats of 2 crabs and y 2 cup bread crumbs, a little milk, 
melted butter, lemon, salt and pepper, Worcestershire sauce and 4 
tablespoonfuls tomato catsup. Bake in ramekins until brown on top. 

MRS. MONHEIMER. 
Crab Canapes. 

One tablespoonful butter, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion, 2 table- 
spoonful chopped mushrooms, 1 cup stock or liquor from canned 
mushrooms, 2 yolks of egg, 1 teaspoonful salt, cayenne, iy 2 or 2 cups 
crab meat. Heat the butter, saute in it the onion and mushroom 
about ten minutes, add stock and crab. Cook ten minutes, then thicken 
with the egg, season, spread on small slices of toast, sprinkle with 
grated cheese and brown delicately in a hot oven. 

MRS. L. NATHAN. 
Crab Creole. 

For 2 crabs take 1 can tomatoes, boil with green peppers, salt, 
pepper, paprika, onion cut fine, tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce 
and a pinch of baking soda for about half an hour. Then thicken 
with a cream sauce, made of % cup of cream or milk. Beat and stir 
in slowly about 1 tablespoonful each of butter and flour rubbed to 
a cream. Then add shredded crab, few olives cut small; also mush- 
rooms if desired. MRS. ABRAMS. 

Crab Chops. 

Shred one crab. Boil in double boiler with the following till 
quite thick; % cup cream or milk, 1 tablespoonful flour, yolks of 2 
eggs, 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, cayenne, 
parsley, etc. Let it cool, and then form into little chops, roll in cracker 
or bread crumbs and fry in butter. Serve each chop with a tiny claw, 
which set aside when you are dissecting the crab. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Crab Julienne. 
Brown 1 large onion in a big spoon of butter. When brown add 
y 2 can tomatoes. Then add crabs and water enough to cook 1 cup 
rice. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Cook all together. 
MRS. A. KOCH. 

How can you cook or bake on a poor Rang-e? A Star Estate Range 
never fails. 



40 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Deviled Crab. 

Two tablespoonfuls flour, 1 tablespoonful butter; melt the butter, 
add the flour and then let cool. Add to this 1 well beaten egg, 2 table- 
spoonfuls cream and then 2 crabs shredded; also 2 tablespoonfuls cat- 
sup, 1 tablespoonful Worchestershire sauce, salt, pepper, celery and 
juice of y 2 lemon. Sprinkle cracker crumbs and little of the beaten 
egg on top and a bit of butter. Then bake. 

MRS. PAUL BERKMAN. 

Spanish Oyster Stew. 
One slice of butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, a small bunch of celery, 
2 carrots, 2 green onions, 1 leek, a medium sized green pepper (the 
long kind), 1 pint tomato catsup, a speck of garlic, a little salt, the 
oyster juice and as many oysters as required. The very smallest 
oysters must be used. Melt butter and add the flour, then the tomato 
catsup and the oyster juice. Then add all the vegetables, which must 
be chopped up very fine. Let this cook for 1% hours, and when ready 
to serve, add oysters. MISS ROSE CAHEN, S. F. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
Butter a baking dish. Put a layer of oysters, season, sprinkle 
cracker meal and dots of butter on top. Then another layer of oysters, 
cracker meal and butter, until dish is full. Pour over the oyster 
liquor and a cup of milk which has been seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Bake about ten minutes, and serve in baking dish. 

MRS. S. BROWN. 
Oysters on Toast. 
A quick way to serve oysters on toast is to rinse and drain a pint 
of oysters and cook them until they ruffle in a tablespoonful of bub- 
bling butter. Season with salt and paprika, and turn over hot but- 
tered toast. A very little lemon juice added to the butter in which 
they are cooked improves the flavor. 

Oyster Mixture. 

One cup oysters, 1 cup white sauce, yolks of two eggs, salt, pepper, 

and lemon juice. Cover each timbale with more of the force meat. Set 

timbales in a pan of water and bake 15 or 20 minutes. Turn from the 

forms and serve with mock Hollandaise sauce. MRS. I. BROWN 

Oyster Fricassee. 

Put into saucepan 1 ounce butter, juice of half a lemon, cayenne 
pepper, grated nutmeg, and a quart of oysters. Simmer gently a few 
minutes. Do not cook them too much, or they will shrivel up. Beat 
yolks of 3 eggs together with 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry, and pour in 
with the oysters. Toss the whole over the fire for a minute. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 



USE RELIANCE 



iUANGESSKS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



SHELL FISH 41 



Oyster Loaf. 
Scoop out a loaf of bread and toast the loaf. Fry oysters in 
butter, and when nearly finished fry a little chopped green pepper. 
Fill loaf with oysters well seasoned. Pour in some melted butter. 
Serve hot. MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Oysters Kirkpatrick. 
Eastern oysters in the shell, season, salt and pepper, plenty of 
catsup, butter and grated cheese. Bake 10 minutes. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 
Oyster Patties. 
Parboil 1 pint oysters in their own liquor. Put in a pan 1 table- 
spoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour, add 1 cup muk or cream, a 
little salt and pepper. Stir over fire a few minutes and add oysters 
and liquor. Pour over patty shells and serve hot. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Oysters Italienne. 
Drain liquor from oysters, spread a dish with butter, lay the 
oysters on it, strew with finely chopped parsley, salt and pepper and 
sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese. Put in oven to brown and 
serve hot with wafers. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Oyster Rarebit. 
Scald 1 pint oysters in their own liquor until the edges curl. 
Drain and keep oysters hot. Break y 2 pound rich soft cheese into 
small bits; put into saucepan with 1 tablespoonful butter, little salt, 
cayenne and saltspoon mustard. Pour oyster liquor over 2 eggs 
slightly beaten. Place cheese over fire and stir constantly. As It 
melts, add gradually the oyster liquor and eggs. When soft and 
creamy, add the oysters. Heat one minute and turn out on hot toast 
and serve. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Little Pigs in Blankets. 
Select large plump oysters. Wrap each one in thin slices pork or 
bacon, pinning into place with wooden toothpicks. Lay in heated 
baking or chafing dish. Cook until bacon is crisp. Serve on toast 
with parsley and lemon to garnish. MRS. E. MORGANSTERN. 

Oyster Sausages. 
Pour a quart of boiling water over a pint of oysters, drain and 
dry in a cloth. Chop very fine, add one cupful of soft bread crumbs, a 
saltspoonful of salt, a dusting of white pepper and of celery salt, and 
a pinch of nutmeg. Mix to a stiff paste with the yolks of two eggs, 
shape into small rolls and fry in hot butter. Serve with lemon quarters. 

Potage Royale. 
Make a tomato sauce with onion, trifle of garlic, green pepper and 
strain. Make a rich poulette sauce. Add a small quantity of white 
wine. Blend the two sauces and put in crab meat, shrimps, oysters 
and lobster. Put in ramakins, grate cheese over and bake in oven. 
MRS. J. FERGUSON. 

The American Savings Bank of Seattle is taking* care of as many 
savings accounts as any bank in the West. Give them yours. 



42 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Shallot Sauce. 
Chop 3 young onions very fine. Add pepper, 1 small teaspoonful of 
cider vinegar and juice of 3 lemons. For oysters on half shell. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Butter Steamed Oysters. 
Melt a slice of butter brown, throw in oysters with juice. Let 
come to a boil. Cover. Season and serve with lemon juice. 

MRS. E. MORGANSTERN. 

Fancy Pepper Roast. 
Drain oysters. Put oyster liquor in a pan. Add a tablespoonful 
of canned tomatoes, tomato catsup, Worcestershire sauce, juice of y 2 
a lemon, tablespoonful butter, a little chopped green peppers, salt. Let 
come to a boil and throw in oysters. Serve immediately, garnished 
with small slices of toast. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

To Fry Oysters. 
Drain oysters and wipe dry. Beat egg, season with salt, pepper 
and a little cayenne. Dip each oyster in beaten egg and then into 
cracker meal. Fry in butter. Serve with slices of lemon. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Deviled Oysters in Shells. 
Chop a pint of oysters fine. Mix with a little cracker meal, salt, 
pepper, lemon juice, a pinch of mustard and cayenne. Add the oyster 
liquor and a beaten yolk of 1 egg; also %, cup of milk. Put in crab 
shells, sprinkle with cracker meal and bits of butter on top. Bake 
quickly until brown. Serve with slices of lemon. 

MRS. S. BROWN. 

Deviled Oysters in Rice Cups. 
Cook together for five minutes 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 table- 
spoonful of chopped onion, and the same amount of chopped green 
pepper. Add y 2 a cupful of strained oyster juice, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, a teaspoonful of pre- 
pared mustard, a dusting of cayenne and a pint of chopped oysters. 
Simmer for five minutes, fill the rice cups and serve piping hot. 

Rice Cups. 
Into 2 cupfuls of half-boiled rice stir three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter. Wet in cold water small moulds or after-dinner coffee 
cups. Fill with rice and set away until cold. When wanted unmould 
and with a teaspoon remove the centers, leaving a shell of the rice. 
Brush inside and out with melted butter, place on a baking sheet and 
run into a hot oven until crispy brown, when they will be ready 
for filling. 



RELIANCE c v"3S 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



SHELL FISH 43 



Omelette With Oysters. 
Drain a dozen oysters, chop fine. Beat 4 eggs, the whites and 
yolks separately, as for a plain omelette. Add the chopped oysters, pep- 
per and salt. Then put a heaping tablespoonful of butter into the 
omelette pan. When hot put into it the eggs and oysters, stirring 
gently as they are put in, then allow to set, when fold over and serve. 

MRS. I. MONHEIMER. 

Oysters and Sweetbreads. 
Soak and blanch sweetbreads, cut in pieces. Take 3 dozen fine 
large oysters, drain and put sweetbreads in oyster liquor. Add 3 table- 
spoonfuls roast veal gravy, % pound fresh butter cut in bits and 
roll in flour and cook. When the sweetbreads are done, put in the 
oysters. Cook five minutes, then add 2 wine^lassfuls sweet cream. 
Stir well and serve in a hot dish. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Olympia Pan Roast. 
One quart Olympia oysters, wash and put in pan with a little hot 
water for about 2 minutes. Then drain off all the liquor. Melt about 
% a cup butter, add oysters, salt, paprika, 1 cup catsup, a few drops 
Worcestershire sauce, and cook a very short time (until oysters are 
plump). Serve piping hot on toast. 

MRS. MITCHELL HARRIS, Olympia. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
One quart Olympia oysters, washed and drained well through a 
colander. Butter a baking dish, and put in a layer of oysters, then a 
layer of cracker crumbs, sprinkling every layer with salt, pepper and 
pieces of butter. Repeat until all is used. Beat up well 1 egg in a 
cup. Fill the cup with milk and season with salt and pepper, and 
pour over oyster pudding, adding pieces of butter over the top. Bake 
in oven for half an hour. MRS. MITCHELL HARRIS, Olympia. 

Scallops Creole. 
Use only the white hard part. Make a thick cream sauce. Have 
cooked previously a small onion cut fine and sauted in butter, a green 
pepper chopped and 3 tablespoonfuls of tomato (canned will do), salt 
and pepper. Strain and add to cream sauce. Add the scallops and 
a little paprika and tomato catsup, and put into ramakins and sprinkle 
bread crumbs and butter on top. Bake few minutes. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Crawfish. 

To about 4 dozen crawfish take the following ingredients: 2 
carrots, 1 turnip, bunch of celery, 1 onion, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 1 
teaspoonful allspice, y 2 teaspoonful red pepper, parsley, quart of 
white wine and enough water to thoroughly cover mixture. When 
boiling put in the crawfish, and cook 30 minutes. Leave them in the 
juice at least two hours before serving. This greatly improves them. 
MRS. E. L. ALLENBERG. 

J. Reidelsheimer & Co. can meet the demands of the most fastidious 
dressers, whether male or female. 



44 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Lobster Farcie. 
Remove lobster from shell and cut into small pieces. Stir into a 
thick cream sauce, season with salt and paprika, little onion juice and 
Worcestershire sauce. Put into shells and sprinkle thickly with 
bread crumbs, laying slice of lemon on top of each and dot with 
butter. Bake slowly. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Lobster a la Newburg. 
Melt a piece of butter, put in lobster, cut into not too small pieces. 
After stirring a few minutes, add a pint of cream, 1 glass sherry; whip 
all quickly and thoroughly, and while hot add yolks of 3 or 4 eggs. 
Serve very hot. MRS. N. ECKSTEIN. 

Lobster Bordelaise. 
Cut lobster into dice, put in pan with white wine, little garlic, 2 
bay leaves, little parsley, pepper and salt. Boil for 25 minutes, stirring 
often. When cooked take out lobster and place in clean saucepan. 
Fry little onion in butter, and add little flour. Cook and pour in some 
of liquor lobsters were cooked in. Cook ten minutes, add cupful tomato 
sauce, little cayenne, the pieces of lobster. Serve hot. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Baked Lobster. 
Place large slice butter in saucepan, add minced onions, little flour 
and stir. Add sufficient cream to make sauce stiff. Add chopped 
lobster, red pepper, Worcestershire sauce; also yolks 2 eggs. Let 
come to boil. Place in ramekins, sprinkle with bread crumbs and pour 
over a little melted butter. Bake until brown. 

MRS. E. MORGANSTERN. 

Lobster or Shrimp Croquettes. 

One can of lobster or shrimp. Shred. Add 1 cup of grated bread 
crumbs, soaked in milk, 2 eggs, pepper, salt, tablespoonful vinegar, a 
teaspoonful cracker meal. If too soft to make into croquettes, add a 
little more cracker meal, keeping the mixture as soft as possible. 
Make into croquettes, and dip into cracker meal. Fry in butter and 
serve with this tomato sauce: Brown 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Add y 2 
can tomatoes, a tablespoonful vinegar, % cup of water, a little Wor- 
cestershire sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls tomato catsup, salt, pepper, a pinch 
of sugar, and add a tablespoonful of cracker meal. Let cook and pour 
over croquettes when ready to serve. If desired, add oysters to the 
sauce. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Shrimp Wiggle. 

Make a cream sauce with butter, flour and milk. Season with salt 
and add a little Parmesan cheese. Take 2 pounds of picked shrimps 
and a cupful of cooked green peas. Let all come to a boil and serve on 
toast. JULIET ARONSON. 



:liance c v"ss 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



SHELL FISH 45 



Spanish Shrimps. 

One pint shrimps, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 
tablespoonful catsup, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 cup hot soup stock, 2 
yolks of eggs, salt, cayenne and a grated onion. Heat butter, add flour 
and other ingredients in order given, cook until smooth and add 
shrimps. Fill this mixture in ramakins and cover with cracker dust 
and a little butter and bake. MRS. KOCH. 

Shrimps With Asparagus Tips. 

Make a rich cream sauce. Add shrimps and a can of asparagus tips. 
Season. Fill ramakins and put a little grated bread crumbs and bits 
of butter on top. Bake ten minutes. A little grated cheese can be 
added to the mixture before baking if desired. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Shrimp Saute. 

One-half pound shrimps, 1 can mushrooms. Put a piece of butter 
in a pan, melt it and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour. Add a cup 
of milk or cream, a little water, the liquid from a can of mushrooms, 
a dash of Worcestershire sauce. Add shrimps and mushrooms, and 
last some chopped parsley. Serve on warmed crackers. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Shrimps in Aspie. 

Put 1 box gelatine to soak with y 2 cup cold water, add 1 quart 
boiling soup stock and 1 cup tomato sauce, 1 teaspoonful of butter, 
salt and 2 or 3 chili peppers. Strain, pour into forms a little of the 
liquid, add a few shrimps, then liquid, then shrimps, and so on till 
the forms are full. Unmould and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

MRS. L. M. STERN. 

Shrimps in Croutons. 

Cut bread in thick squares, hollow out like patties, cut off crust. 
Fry to golden brown in hot fat. Then make a cream sauce, thick, sea- 
son well and add chopped shrimps. Serve in the crontons. Garnish 
with chopped parsley and sliced lemon. 

MRS. E. MORGANSTERN. 

Creamed Shrimps. 

Pick 2 pounds medium sized shrimps, boil y 2 dozen eggs hard. 
Make a cream sauce and season with 3 tablespoonfuls of bouillon, 
paprika, Worcestershire and salt. Cut up eggs and add together with 
the shrimps. Do not allow to boil after putting in shrimps. Serve on 
toast, in patty shells or in ramakins. 

MRS. CARL SCHERMER. 



Por reliable wines and liquors, especially for medicinal use, you 
should insist that your dealer purchase from M. & K. Gottstein. 



46 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Shrimps With Rice. 

One-half pint shrimps, 1 tablespoonful tomato sauce, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter, y 2 an onion grated, y 2 cup boiled rice, 1 gill cream. Put 
butter in pan. When hot stir in onion and rice. Add cream, shrimps 
and tomato sauce. Stir until it boils and cook five minutes. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Shrimp Saute. 

One-half pound shrimps, 1 can mushrooms, y 2 cup finely chopped 
parsley, 1 cup sour cream, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper. Put 1 
tablespoonful butter in double boiler, add 1 tablespoonful flour. When 
hot add sour cream, y 2 liquid from the mushrooms, parsley and season- 
ings. Cook 20 minutes, then add shrimps and mushrooms cut in half. 
Serve on toast. BELLE BLUM. 



:liance?Sb7£ 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



ENTREES 47 



Entrees 



A good cream sauce is the foundation for many toothsome entrees. 
By the addition of various condiments, as sherry, grated cheese, 
chopped hard-boiled eggs, chicken or meat broth, etc., a pleasing va- 
riety of dishes may be served. A great number of entrees are well 
suited to chafing dish dishes, being quickly and easily prepared. Left- 
overs can be used to good advantage in the preparation of entrees. 
Almost any cold cooked vegetable, meat or fish may be scalloped — 
that is, placing in alternate layers in baking dish with grated bread 
crumbs, seasoning and butter, and half the quantity of liquid, prefer- 
ably white sauce poured over. 

Spaghetti, Spanish. 
Break y 2 box spaghetti into a pot of boiling salted water. Cook until 
tender. Make the following Spanish sauce: Pour a tablespoon of 
olive oil in a saucepan and a little chopped onion. When the onion turns 
yellow add \y 2 cups strained tomatoes (or Campbell's tomato soup), 
chili powder, paprika, salt, green pepper cut up fine, and a little grated 
cheese. Stir well, and when it boils add the drained spaghetti. Bake 
15 or 20 minutes and sprinkle the top with grated cheese. 

MRS. CARL SCHERMER. 

Spaghetti, Italian Style. 

10 cents round steak cut up and browned in fat. Add 1 teacup claret. 
Simmer 10 or 15 minutes. Then add % can tomatoes, 2 bay leaves, 
sprig of parsley, sprig of celery, 1 large onion, 1 chili pepper, pepper, 
salt and paprika, 1 carrot, 3 or 4 dried mushrooms. Simmer gently 1 
to iy 2 hours. Strain. Boil spaghetti in salt water until tender. Add 
to above. Also 10 cents grated parmesan cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 
tablespoons flour. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Calf's Liver and Mushrooms. 
Take part of a calf's liver which has been stewed gently in butter 
and a little water in the morning and cut it into small even squares. 
Mix with y 2 pound of butter the yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs. Put on 
the stove, add salt, pepper and a pinch of dry mustard. When heated 
put in the liver and part of a can of mushrooms. When it has cooked 
5 minutes add a small glass of madeira and serve with hot toast. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 

Fried Chicken Liver. 

Roll in flour, fry in hot butter, put in some chopped onion, cover 
for a few moments and serve on toast. MRS. GUS BROWN. 



The Great Majestic Bang-e is as essential as a g-ood cook book. 



48 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Stuffed Liver. 

Sprinkle salt over a calf's liver and put on oven grate with a pan 
of water underneath to catch the drippings. When half done take 
out and wash clean, and let drip. Take bread crumbs, finely chopped 
parsley, a little garlic and onion, pepper and salt. Mix together. Slice 
liver % way through, and spread with fat between the layers and fill 
in dressing. What is left, put on top, then drop into a little hot fat, add 
soup stock and baste from time to time. Cook about an hour in the oven. 

MRS. A.COBLENTZ. 
Calves' Liver Saute. 

Slice liver and cut in small pieces. Put in colander and scald it. 
Take a good slice butter and a small onion chopped fine with little 
garlic. When onion is yellow, stir in a tablespoon flour and let it get 
quite brown. Then put in liver and stir around few minutes. Then 
add 1 cup soup stock, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, some strained 
tomatoes, teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, y 2 cup Liebig's extract, *& 
teaspoon each of anchovy sauce, mushroom catsup, 5 or 6 drops 
kitchen bouquet. Let all boil 10 minutes. Serve on toast. 

MRS. E. EPSTEIN, San Francisco. 

Leber Klase (Liver Dumplings). 
One pound liver chopped, % pound suet chopped very fine, 1 onion 
chopped, 2 cups bread crumbs, salt and pepper, a little nutmeg, 3 eggs. 
Mix well. If not stiff enough, add y 2 cup flour. Take mixture in spoon 
and drop in boiling salt water. Let cook for about 15 minutes. When 
cooked drain and fry in fine .bread crumbs. MRS. E. BORIES. 

Fried Calves' Brains. 
Soak for y 2 hour in cold water and then remove veins and outer 
skin. Then parboil for 3 or 4 minutes in salted water. Let cool. Roll 
in beaten egg, then in fine cracker crumbs. Fry to golden brown in 
deep fat or butter. Serve on bed of lettuce leaves. 

MRS. A. L. JAFFE. 
Brain Timbale. 
Wash brains well in salt water. Parboil. When cool put through 
colander. Add heart of bread soaked in milk, small can pate de fois 
gras, 4 eggs, pepper, salt. This is a recipe for about 20 cents' worth 
of brains and ^4 loaf of bread. Bake in forms, placed in pan of water. 
Serve with rich poulette sauce or tomato sauce. 

BELLE BLUM. 
Swedish Timbale Cases. 
Beat lightly 2 eggs, y 2 cup of milk. Add slowly 1 cup of flour, % 
teaspoon salt, same of sugar, tablespoon melted butter. Beat very 
well. Dip a timbale mold well greased into this mixture and fry in 
hot lard. MRS. I. BROWN. 



RELIANCE SS 

NATfONAL GROCERY CO. 



ENTREES 49 



Liver Timbales. 
Six raw chicken livers mashed. Add 2 slices of bread soaked in 
milk and squeezed dry, and mash through sieve. Add 6 mushrooms 
chopped fine, little grated onion, 2 tablespoons cream, yolks of 2 eggs 
and fold in the beaten whites. Bake in timbale forms. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Baked Calves' Liver. 

Take a whole calf's liver, wash, season well and flour slightly. Gash 
the top and add onions, chopped garlic and about 4 or 5 tablespoons 
of chicken fat. Add little water and bake in not oven, basting well for 
about y 2 hour. MRS. J. KOLEMAN. 

Brain Patties. 

Parboil brains, pass through sieve, season well, add lime juice, 1 
tablespoon flour, 1 egg. Cut milk bread in slices, take off the crust, 
spread the mixture on, dip in milk but not to soak, and fry in hot fat 
without turning. Serve with tomato sauce and chopped parsley. 

R. LOBE. 
Brain Timbales. 

20 cents' worth of brains, well cleaned. Boil in salted water in 
which a bay leaf and y 2 an onion have been placed for about 15 or 20 
minutes. Mash through a colander and add 2 thick slices of white 
bread soaked in milk, piece of butter size of an egg, 3 eggs, salt, pepper, 
y 2 pint cream, and 1 can pate de foie gras or the livers of 2 or 3 chick- 
ens mashed with a tablespoon chicken fat. Bake in buttered timbale 
forms about 20 minutes. Serve with cream sauce mixed with chopped 
mushrooms, hard boiled eggs and sherry. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Kidney Saute. 
Melt a piece of butter and fry in it a chopped onion till quite brown. 
Add the kidney chopped very fine. Fry quickly. Shake over a little 
flour, add stock, juice of a lime, sherry, salt and pepper and mush- 
rooms if desired. Serve on toast. MRS. CARL SCHERMER. 

Baked Noodles With Cheese. 

Cook broad noodles in boiling salt water until soft. Drain and pour 
cold water over them. Make iy 2 cups of white sauce. Put a layer 
of noodles in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, re- 
peat, pour over white sauce, cover with bread crumbs and bake until 
crumbs are brown. Tomato sauce may be used instead of the white 
sauce and cheese. 

Cheese Souffle. 

Stir 1 heaping tablespoon flour in 2 tablespoons melted butter until 
smooth. Add 1 cup milk, 1 cup grated cheese, yolks of 3 eggs well 
beaten, salt and pepper to taste. Cook 10 minutes. Allow to cool. 
Then fold in beaten whites. Bake in dish to be served in, set in pan of 
hot water about 20 minutes. Serve immediately. 
MRS. CARL SCHERMER. 

The State Bank of Seattle will teach you how to economize by paying* 
your hills by check. 



50 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Brain Fritters. 

Parboil and chop fine. Make batter of 1 egg beaten lightly, 2-3 cup 
flour, y 2 cup milk, level teaspoon yeast powder. Add chopped brains, 
season well, drop in hot fat. Serve with sliced lemon. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat. 

Boil 1 cupful rice until tender. Chop fine 3 cupfuls cold cooked 
meat, add a little chopped parsley, a pinch of salt and pepper, 1 egg, 1 
salt spoon celery salt and 2 teaspoons bread crumbs. If you have any 
soup stock, add sufficient to moisten well. Butter a mold, line with 
rice V 2 inch thick, put in meat, then cover with rice. Cover closely 
and steam 45 miputes. Serve with brown gravy or tomato sauce. 

MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 
Stuffed Milt. 

Skin of milt is removed and veins taken out. Lay milt on chopping 
board or platter. Take iron spoon and scrape off all blood. This do 
carefully to avoid making holes. Scrape evenly so as to have it all 
one thickness. Fold or double, sew all around, leaving open end to fill. 
Filling: Soak y 2 pound wheat bread, squeeze well; 1 or 2 finely chopped 
onions fried in fat until light yellow. Mash soaked bread fine with the 
onions, ginger, pepper, salt, the blood of the milt and 3 or 4 eggs, all 
well mixed together. Stuff milt with this and sew up. Season outside. 
Boil in soup and then brown in oven. MRS. I. MONHEIMER. 

Sausage With Egg. 
Slice bologna. Dip each slice in beaten egg and then in cracker 
meal. Fry in butter. MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Sausage With Rice. 
Cook rice until tender and serve with hot Wiener sausages. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Lamb Chops. 
Cut pieces of bread round and toast. Spread with some pate de foie 
gras or anchovy paste, a little thicker than butter, to taste. Take a 
round chop, broil and place on toast. Steam some mushrooms in butter, 
add salt. This can be done in the oven. Put the dark side of the 
mushroom on chop. Cut thin slices of truffle and add on top of mush- 
room. Boil some cream sauce and pour over chop and surround with 
green peas. MRS. FRED ROTHSCHILD, Portland. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 
Take leaves of cabbage and boil until tender. Take chopped beef 
and veal, season well with salt, pepper. Fill each cabbage leaf and 
steam in butter. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 



RELIANCE SS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



ENTREES 51 



Asparagus and Eggs. 
Cut asparagus into bits y 2 inch long, boil until tender. Drain dry. 
Put in saucepan with a cup of rich drawn butter. Let it ccme to a 
boil. Season with salt and pepper. Pour into a buttered bake dish, 
break 5 or 6 eggs carefully over the top, put a bit of butter upon each, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put into the oven until eggs are set. 
Can put toast under asparagus if wished. 

MRS. ELLIS H. GROSS. 

Asparagus Loaf. 

Butter a mold, quart size, and line it with cooked tips of asparagus 
well drained. Cook together 2 tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, 
adding a teaspoon of salt, a dash of cayenne pepper and 1 cupful of 
cream gradually. Let it boil 5 minutes, remove from the fire, add 1 
cupful asparagus tips and 4 eggs thoroughly beaten. Turn the mixture 
carefully into the mold and set in a pan of hot water and cook in a 
moderate oven about 30 minutes, or until the center is firm. Turn the 
loaf in a hot dish, arrange about it little triangular pieces of bread that 
have been dipped in beaten egg and milk and browned in butter. Pour 
yellow Bechamel sauce around the dish and serve at once. 

Cheese on Toast. 

X A pound cheese cut in pieces, small cup milk, put in double boiler, 
add cheese. When melted add 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 small teaspoon 
sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 egg well beaten, salt and cayenne to taste. 
Serve on toast. 

Cheese Fondu. 

Y 2 cup Dread crumbs, y 2 cup dry cheese grated, 1 scant cup milk, 
1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 egg, yolk and white beaten separately, a 
pinch of bicarbonate of soda, salt and pepper to taste. Soak crumbs in 
the milk, dissolve soda in a little hot water and add to milk. Add bal- 
ance of ingredients, beat well, pour into a well buttered baking dish, 
strew dry crumbs moistened with butter over the top, and bake in a 
hot oven until light brown. Serve at once in the dish in which it is 
baked. 

Boiled Calf's Head With Vinaigrette Sauce. 

Plunge a fresh calf's head into hot water, remove and clean. Re- 
move flesh from the bone. Place in a saucepan 2 tablespoons flour, 1 
gill vinegar, 1 carrot, onion, whole peppers and salt. Add pieces of 
head to broth and let cook for an hour ana a half. Take out meat and 
serve with vinaigrette sauce. Vinaigrette sauce: Chop together 1 
onion, parsley, chives, add salt, pepper and 3 tablespoons vinegar. Stir 
all well together. Add 4 tablespoons oil. Mix well and serve. 

Sardellen Souffle. 
y 2 pint charlotte russe cream beaten, 5 whole eggs, y 2 cup flour, 1 
teaspoon salt. Mix well together. Bake in muffin forms 15 or 20 min- 
utes. Serve with a square of sardellen butter on top. 

MRS. L. SCHWABACHER. 

For the finest sterling", the best cut glass and the most reliable deal- 
ing's g-o to Lawrence Im. Moore & Co., Jewelers. 



52 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Beef Olives. 

iy 2 pounds rump steak, 3 ounces beef suet, 3 ounces bread crumbs, 
1 pint of brown stock, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, % teaspoonful 
of thyme and marjoram, a little lemon rind, pepper, nutmeg, salt. Cut 
the steak in slices y 2 inch in thickness and 4 inches in length; take the 
trimmings that remain, chop them very finely, put them in a basin, 
add to them the suet chopped finely, bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, 
marjoram, grated lemon rind, pepper, salt and grated nutmeg. Mix 
these well together with 1 egg; take each slice of steak, put a little of 
the stuffing in the center, roll up, and tie each roll with twine, then 
place them in stewpan with the brown stock, and simmer % of an hour. 
Place the beef olives on a hot dish, on a bed of mashed potatoes. 

MRS. L. A. MORGANSTERN, New York City. 

Sardine Croquettes. 

After drawing off oil, skin and bone 1 cupful of sardines. Cook y 2 
cup stale white bread in y 2 cup of milk, adding the beaten yolks of 2 
or 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons of butter, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, dash of 
paprika. Mix with sardines, shape and fry in deep fat. 

MRS: FRED ROTHSCHILD, Portland 

Sardine Rarebit. 
Have ready in a dish a dozen sardines, from which oil has been 
drained, and warm carefully without breaking. Put 2 sardines on each 
slice of toast and pour a Welsh rarebit mixture very hot over it. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Cauliflower and Shrimps. 
Boil a whole cauliflower, make a poulette sauce with a couple cups 
strained tomatoes, and put in shrimps to boil about 5 minutes. Then 
pour over cauliflower. MRS. E. EPSTEIN, San Francisco. 

Saute for Various Meats and Vegetables. 
Kidneys, sweet breads, potatoes, mushrooms, leftovers, etc. Fry a 
minced onion in tablespoon butter until color desired. The sauce takes 
its color from this stage. Add the material to be sauted and cook 5 
minutes. Dredge with flour, keep stirring, add salt and pepper, if de- 
sired ginger. Then add a cup of stock or milk. Water can also be 
used. Let come to boiling point, add 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 
the juice cf y 2 lemon, and if wine flavor is desired add sherry to taste. 
Serve hot. MRS. N. DEGGINGER. 

Dried Beef Creamed. 
Take dried beef, pour over boiling water and drain. Make cream 
sauce and add dried beef. Nice for luncheon. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 



.LIMIlUL VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



ENTREES 53 



Rolled Steak. 

Cut round steak into squares and fill each with some of this mix- 
ture: Dry bread crumbs, salt, pepper, chopped onion, fat, all mixed 
well together. Wrap each piece in a cabbage leaf and tie with thread. 
Pot roast in fat and onion, a little flour and soup stock. Remove thread 
before serving. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Ragout of Rabbit. 

Cut rabbit into small pieces. Lay into salted water for 1 hour. 
Then dry. Sprinkle with salt and a little ginger. Stew 2 onions in y 2 
pound of butter. Add a pint of red wine, 2 bay leaves and a few pepper 
corns, and let stew until tender. Remove rabbit and make gravy. 
Thicken gravy with flour, after removing the grease, strain and pour 
over the ragout. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Hamburg Steak in Tomatoes. 
Scoop tomatoes. Fill with Hamburg steak, which has been made 
with ground meat, egg, grated onion and grated bread crumbs. Sea- 
son. Put a lump of butter and a little bread crumbs on each tomato 
and bake in oven. The same recipe can fill green peppers instead of 
tomatoes. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Sweet Breads in Shells. 
Boil 2 pieces sweet breads tender, cut in small pieces, brown in 
butter. Chop mushrooms and truffles, add a pinch red pepper, 3 table- 
spoonfuls Madeira wine. Mix yolks 3 eggs with y 2 pint thick cream. 
Mix all thoroughly. Butter ramakins, fill well and bake in hot oven 
until brown. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Pimento Timbale. 
Take pimentoes, put in timbale forms first, then 1 teaspoon boiled 
macaroni, then teaspoon grated cheese; repeat till full. Boil y 2 hour, 
then turn out. Sauce: 2 yolks of eggs well beaten, pepper, salt, butter 
size of egg melted and put in eggs. Season with little vinegar. Put 1 
tablespoonful sauce on each timbale. ROSE LOBE. 

Leftover Meat. 
Take y 2 cup chopped meat. Make a poulette sauce, put in meat, 
yolks of 2 eggs, and last whites beaten stiff. Butter pan and bake in 
slow oven 20 minutes. MRS. E. MARX. 

Game Pie. 
Cook game and cut up in pieces. Put in baking dish, strain the 
gravy over, put in 1 teacup cream, 1 spoonful butter, 2 tablespoons 
bread crumbs, parsley and salt and pepper, and thicken with a little 
flour. Cover pie with rich crust and bake about 30 minutes. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 
Sweetbreads. 
Parboil and stew in butter, put on dish with toast and asparagus 
tips. Cover with cream sauce, bread crumbs and grated cheese. Bake 
in oven. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

When your cards are engraved or printed at Lowman & Hanford's you 
know you have a style that is up-to-date. 



54 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Scalioped Sweet Breads. 
Slice sweet breads and stew with 1 ounce of butter and ^ wine- 
glass of white wine. Season and cook for 6 minutes, moistening with 
a gill of cream sauce and add a few sliced mushrooms. Pill shells with 
the mixture, sprinkle over with bread crumbs, put on bits of butter and 
brown for 5 minutes. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Sweet Bread Croquettes. 

Parboil sweet breads. Put through a grinder with 1 cup of chicken 
meat. Brown 2 tablespoonfuls flour in % cupful butter. Add 1 cupful 
chicken broth and % cupful cream. Season with salt and pepper and 
add sweet breads and chicken meat and beaten yolks of 2 eggs. When 
cool make into croquettes, dip in egg and cracker meal, fry and serve 
with mushroom sauce. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Chicken Custards. 

Two cups rich chicken stock, dash of cayenne, y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 
tablespoon onion juice and 3 well beaten eggs. Pour into a pudding 
dish or into buttered cups and bake in the oven in a pan of hot water. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Oranged Sweet Breads. 

Cook 1 teaspoonful of scraped onion in 1 tablespoon of butter, then 
add 1 tablespoon of flour. Cook until smooth, add 1 cupful of stock, 1 
orange, juice and pulp, 1 teaspoon of lemon juice and a speck of cayenne. 
Add sweetbreads cut in inch pieces and 1 saltspoon of salt. Cook for 
10 or 15 minutes, until the pink has disappeared from the sweet breads. 

MRS. N. DEGGINER. 
Sweetbreads Stewed. 

Clean 6 sweet breads thoroughly and lay for an hour in a pan of 
water. Put in a stew pan with enough rich milk or cream to cover well 
and a very little salt. Stew slowly until tender and thoroughly done, 
saving the liquid. Take out the sweet breads, cover and set near the 
fire to keep warm. Prepare % pound butter, divide in 4 pieces rubbed 
in flour, put the butter in the milk in which the sweet breads were 
boiled, add a little parsley cut small, 5 or 6 blades of mace, *4 of a 
nutmeg and a little cayenne pepper. Have ready the yolks of 3 eggs 
well beaten, return the sweet breads to the gravy and let it just come 
to a boil, then stir in the beaten eggs (like custard) just before you take 
the fricassee from the fire, or it will curdle. MRS. I. E. MOSES. 

Apple Fritters. 

Beat 1 egg lightly, add y 2 cup milk, 2-3 cup flour, teaspoon baking 
powder. Chop 2 good sized apples into small pieces. Add to batter 
also a little salt. Drop by big spoonfuls into hot fat. Any other fruit 
may be substituted. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 



"I I A US^F CANNEDFRUIT5 
iLIANLC. VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



ENTREES 55 



Sweet Breads and Artichokes. 
Cut some pieces of bread, toast and spread with anchovy paste 
mixed with butter. Heat the hearts of the artichokes. Cook some 
sweet breads and add same to cream sauce. Fill the hearts and sur- 
round with green peas. MRS. P. ROTHSCHILD, Portland. 

Boston Queen Fritters. 
V 2 cup cold milk, % cup butter, *4 pound well sifted flour, 4 eggs. 
Put butter and milk in double boiler. Stir and when boiling add flour. 
Stir briskly for 2 minutes. Take from stove, add 1 egg. Stir well for 1 
minute. Break in second, third and fourth with same process. Drop 
from spoon in deep boiling fat and let puff slowly until light brown. 
Sprinkle with sugar and serve with jelly thinned or maple drips. 

CARRIE A. FORTLOUIS. 

Eggs and Mushrooms. 

Boil hard an egg for each person. Make a cream sauce with but- 
ter, flour and cream. Season with salt and pepper and add a little 
sherry and parmesan cheese to taste. Add y 2 cup strong chicken broth 
or gravy. Cut up 1 can mushrooms and add also the hard boiled eggs, 
sliced. Serve in ramakins. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Potted Eggs. 

Take the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs, 1 ounce of butter, 1 tea- 
spoon of anchovy sauce, a little salt and cayenne pepper. Pound the 
eggs and butter well together in a mortar, then add the anchovy 
sauce last, and fill the whites. 

Mustard Eggs. 

Melt y 2 pound butter and 4 tablespoons French mustard. Add a 
little water, boil 5 minutes and pour over hard-boiled eggs. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Egg a la Hausman. 
Chop some cooked ham or tongue very fine. Add a few bread 
crumbs, some chopped parsley and a little melted butter. Season 
with salt and white pepper, moisten with milk and put in individual 
shells well buttered. Break 1 fresh egg over each shell carefully, so 
as to keep it whole. Put shells in a pan, place in moderate oven and 
bake until the whites are set. MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 

Egg Vermicelli. 
Boil hard 3 eggs. Separate the yolks from the whites and chop 
the whites. Toast 5 slices of bread and butter while hot. Heat 1 
tablespoon butter in a saucepan, stir in 1 heaping teaspoon flour until 
smooth, season with salt and pepper. Add 1 cup hot milk and stir 
until thick. Then add the chopped whites and pour over the toast. 
Rub the yolks through a strainer, sprinkle over the mixture and gar- 
nish the dish with a border of toast triangles and parsley. 

MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 



McRae & Branig-an are surely reliable grocers. They have three 
stores and are happy to serve you. 



56 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Eggs en Marinade. 
Mix equal quantities of water and good meat gravy, 2 tablespoons 
of each, with a teaspoon of vinegar and a seasoning of pepper and 
salt. Put it into a stewp?*n and stir in gradually 2 well beaten yolks of 
eggs. When it thickens and before it boils, have ready half a dozen 
nicely poached eggs, and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with 
parsley. 

Egg Poulette. 
Good slice butter, 2 tablespoons flour, salt, red pepper, Worcester- 
shire sauce, V 2 pint cream. Make sauce of above. Drop raw egg in 
ramakin, cover with sauce, sprinkle top with grated Swiss cheese 
and flakes of butter. Place in pan of water and bake until brown. 

MRS. ROSE LOBE. 
Eggs in Tomato Sauce. 
Make a Spanish sauce by steaming a chopped onion in oil. Add a 
can of strained tomatoes, a little at a time. Season with salt, paprika, 
a little sugar and a green pepper. Then poach eggs in this sauce. 
Serve the eggs on sliced bread which has been previously fried in 
butter. Cover with sauce. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Eggs With Tomatoes. 
Fry bread in hot butter until crisp. Serve on this poached eggs. 
Pour over the whole a sauce made as follows: Some canned tomatoes 
strained and mixed with cream, seasoned well. Let come to a boil. 

BELLE BLUM. 
Eggs Creole. 
Six hard boiled eggs sliced. Take % can tomatoes, 2 small onions 
cut fine, y 2 cup bread crumbs, and saute these in 2 tablespoons of but- 
ter for a few minutes. Add salt and pepper and 1 cup of soup stock. 
Cook and stir well for 10 or 15 minutes. Place the slices of egg in 
this mixture and heat through. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Egg and Potato Cutlets. 

Make thick cream sauce. Add chopped hard boiled eggs (about 6), 

chopped parsley, onion juice, pepper and salt, 1 cupful mashed potatoes. 

Let mixture get very cold and form into cutlets of even shape. Dip 

into beaten egg and. fry. Serve with tomato sauce or poulette sauce. 

Eggs Bechamel. 
Boil eggs hard, cut in halves and put in baking dish. Take about 
a cup of water, let boil, then mix well a little flour and water. Add 
to the boiling water, stirring constantly. Grate about 5 cents' worth of 
cheese into this, also add a good slice of butter. Cover the eggs with 
this and bake until brown. MRS. D. COBLENTZ. 



- L. I M HI UL vegetables 

NATIONAL GROCERY GO. 



ENTREES 



Egg With Cream. 
Boil eggs hard, take the yolks and mix with some chopped parsley 
and onions fried in butter, seasoned with pepper and salt. Mix with 
milk and stuff eggs. Cover with cream and make y 2 hour. 

MRS. D. COBLENTZ. 
Baked Eggs. 
Remove hard boiled eggs from shell, slice and add to thick cream 
sauce. Add parmesan cheese to taste, salt and pepper. Cover with 
grated bread crumbs and dots of butter and bake in oven a few min- 
utes to brown the crumbs. JULIET ARONSON. 

Eggs a la York. 
Make toast and cover with anchovy paste. Over this pour a little 
poulette sauce. Then put all around the toast the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Leave the center space in which you drop the yolks of 
the eggs. Bake in oven. MRS. N. ECKSTEIN. 

Eggs en Casserole. 

Scramble eggs with cream and grated American cheese, salt and 
pepper, chopped green peppers, tomato catsup and paprika. Serve en 
casserole. Before serving cover with parmesan cheese. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Fried Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil hard 10 eggs. Remove from shells and cut lengthwise. Re- 
move yolks and mash them with spoon. Add salt and pepper to taste, 
and piece of butter size of half an egg. Soak 2 slices of white bread 
in milk and drain. Mix with egg yolks and add 1 raw egg. Pill whites 
with this mixture. Dip in beaten egg and then in cracker meal and 
fry a light brown. Serve with tomato sauce made as follows: y 2 cup 
water, 2 tablespoons tomato catsup, y 2 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce, y 2 teaspoon vinegar, salt, pepper, small piece of butter, 1 tea- 
spoon cracker meal. Boil up well. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Hungarian Eggs. 
A piece of butter size of a walnut, small onion chopped fine, pint 
of tomato strained, y 2 pound mild cheese, 3 eggs, salt, cayenne. Place 
the butter in a pan (after having the water boil to heat the pan). Let 
it melt, add onion and cook until soft. Now add the tomato and let it 
come to a boil. Add cheese cut fine and stir until smooth. Break in the 
eggs and stir hard until eggs are done. Serve on buttered toast. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT 

Omelette Souffle. 
One egg for each person, separate whites and yolks. Beat yolks 
first, then whites, and put together. Then add 1 tablespoon hot water 
for each egg. Stir as little as possible after adding water. Put in 
oven and bake until you try with straw and it does not stick. Sauce: 
1 pint tomatoes, add 2 tablespoons Devil Hot, a little cayenne, salt, 
then thicken with butter rubbed with flour. Pour sauce over omelette 
and serve. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

You can not make a mistake if yon use a Great Majestic Rang-e. 



58 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Spanish Omelette. 
Pat finely shred onion, 1 ounce butter, 1 chopped green pepper, 6 
minced mushrooms, 1 large tomato cut fine into a skillet. Add 1 spoon- 
ful of tomato sauce, little salt and pepper. Cook 15 minutes. Make a 
plain omelette with 12 eggs, fold the farther side toward the center. 
Put % of the sauce inside of it. Fold the other side over. Turn out 
on a long dish. Pour the rest of the sauce around and serve. 

Spanish Omelet. 
Mince very fine enough ham fat as well as lean, as will fill a small 
teacup and add two finely chopped tiny onions. Beat six eggs, stir the 
ham into them and fry the omelet, folding over when done. 

Seattle Omelet. 
Let one teacup milk come to a boil, pour it over one teacup bread 
crumbs and let stand a few minutes. Break six eggs into a bowl, stir 
(not beat) till well mixed, then add the milk and bread. Mix, season 
with salt and pepper and pour into a hot skillet in which a large 
tablespoon of butter has been melted. Fry slowly, cut in squares; 
turn, fry to a delicate brown and serve at once. 

Deviled Eggs. 
One dozen eggs boiled hard, shelled and cut lengthwise. Mash 
yolks, add % teaspoon French mustard, 2 large tablespoons cold boiled 
ham minced. 1 spoonful melted butter, salt and pepper to taste. Fill 
whites of eggs and serve on water cress. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Tripe a la Creole. 

Boil tripe until tender with onion, parsley, celery, and season well. 
Take 1 spoonful fat, brown it with 2 tablespoons flour, then add 1 can 
tomatoes strained, 1 can mushrooms, paprika, parsley; cut tripe small 
and add to sauce. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Tripe Lyonnaise. 

Fry 2 onions, brown in butter, add the boiled tripe cut in strips, 1 
spoon flour, season with salt and paprika. Add a little soup stock, 
chopped parsley and lime juice. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Spaghetti Italian. 
One can tomatoes, 1 small onion, cut very fine, 3 cloves of garlic, 
3 chili peppers, little salt. Let same cook slowly for about three hours. 
After same has cooked for about an hour, add a heaping teaspoon of 
beef extract and iy 2 cups soup stock. Cook spaghetti in salt water and 
drain; then add a soup plate of grated American cheese. Add a can of 
mushrooms to tomatoes aiter they are cooked and strained, and about 
a dozen pimento olives. Then add same to spaghetti and when ready 
to serve add grated cheese over same. MRS. FRED BORIES. 



RELIANCE SS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



ENTREES 59 



Macaroni With Eggs. 

One-half cup cold boiled macaroni, 2 tablespoons canned mush- 
rooms cut small, 3 eggs, butter size of a walnut, y 2 cup milk, salt and 
pepper. Heat milk, add butter, then eggs well beaten, then macaroni, 
mushrooms and salt. Stir over pan of boiling water about 8 min- 
utes. Serve with hot toasted crackers. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

Cut 1 pound American cheese fine, add 4 tablespoons butter, 1 salt 
spoon dry mustard, Worcestershire, cayenne, salt; stew this till it 
melts. Add gradually y 2 cup beer or milk. Serve on toast or crackers. 

MRS. CARL SCHERMER. 

Tomato Rarebit. 

Two tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour, % cup thin cream, % 
cup stewed and strained tomatoes; y 8 teaspoon soda, 2 cups finely cut 
cheese, 2 eggs slightly beaten, salt, mustard and cayenne. Put butter 
in chafing dish; when melted, add flour, pour on gradually cream, and 
as soon as mixture thickens add tomatoes mixed with soda, then add 
cheese, eggs and seasoning to taste. Serve on buttered toast. 

R. LOBE. 
Tomatoes Stuffed With Shrimps. 

Silce the top off of the tomatoes and scoop out the inside. Brown 
one tablespoonful of butter, add to the tomato pulp and cook until 
smooth and thick. Season with salt and pepper a few drops of onion 
juice. Set part of this aside. Soak a small slice of bread, squeeze 
dry and add to tomatoes. Chop shrimps, add to the dressing and mix 
well. Fill tomatoes, sprinkle bread crumbs on top, put small lumps 
of butter on top of each tomato, .put in a flat baking dish, add very 
little water and bake till brown. Serve with the remainder of the 
cooked tomato as sauce. MRS. S. PRIEDLANDER. 

Frog Legs a la Poulette. 

Piece of butter, add flour and then cream and salt and pepper for 
cream sauce; add cooked frog legs, mushrooms and truffles. 

MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Fricasseed Frogs' Legs. 

Clean two dozen frogs' legs and put them in a granite sauce pan 
with a little butter. Place on the fire and cook until the butter begins 
to brown, then pour over a teacupful of hot water, cover the pan and 
stew for tewnty-five minutes; skim off most of the butter and add 
salt and pepper to taste. Thicken with the yolks of two eggs and two 
tablespoonfuls of cream. As soon as it begins to boil remove from 
the fire. Serve on hot buttered toast. 

Success is insured if these recipes are tried with the Great Majestic 
Bang-e. 



60 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Sweet Entree of Ripe Peaches. 
Take large solid peaches, pour boiling water over same so that 
skin may be removed smoothly. Have ready thick syrup made of 
granulated sugar and water. When boiling hot add peaches and boil 
about 5 minutes; remove and place in ice chest. When ready to serve 
have a sweet cracker or rosette timbale on dish; put peach on same 
and pour over this a raspberry jelly, slightly thinned, and cover all with 
chopped salted almonds or walnuts. Other fruits may be treated in 
like manner. CARRIE A. FORTLOUIS. 



A Spring Luncheon 



Crab Bisque Puree. 

Radishes. Olives. 

Soft Shell Crabs. 

Chicken Chartreuse. Cucumber Shells. 

Nougat Ice Cream. Coffee. 

Crab Bisque. — A cup of finely chopped crab meat is added to the 
cream sauce as for a tomato bisque. Add the tomatoes as usual just 
before serving. 

The toast on which the soft shell crabs are served should be soft 
and well buttered. A bit of cress and section of lemon is on each 
plate, but neither potatoes nor vegetables are served with the crabs. 

For the chicken chartreuse with mushrooms, line a mould with 
macaroni which has been boiled in bouillon or water seasoned with 
carrots, onions and a dash of Worcestershire. Fill the center of the 
mould with chicken meat, chopped peppers and capers, heated in a 
thick sauce, to which two beaten eggs have been added. Steam half 
an hour and pour a mushroom sauce over the whole. Serve in a border 
of crisp lettuce leaves. 

Good-sized cucumbers. Have the shells hollowed out and filled 
with a small amount of the cucumber, mixed with boiled French beans 
and parsley. Dressed with French dressing and the merest trace of 
onions, this salad is springlike and delicious. 

The desert of nougat ice cream is made of plain cream, to which 
whipped cream has been added, chopped marshmallows and a cup of 
mixed pistachio nuts, English walnuts and blanched almonds, finely 
chopped. Serve with whipped cream seasoned with sherry. 

MRS. L. A. MORGENSTERN, New York City. 



:UANCE3SRS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 61 





FINE TABLEWARE 

IN 

Sterling Silver 

ana Silver Plate 

CHAFING DISHES 

CARVING SETS 

ETC 



Lawrence L. Moore Co. 

JEWELERS 
Leary Building 2nd & Madison Street 





62 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Salads 



Lettuce is the vegetable most commonly used in salad. The 
coarser outer leaves should be removed, and only the tender crisp heart 
used. Look over carefully and wash in cold water all vegetables. See 
that they are freed from every particle of sand and grit. Never com- 
bine the meat, vegetables and dressing of a salad until the last 
moment before sending to the table, and then do so as lightly as 
possible. Do not pack or smooth down in the dish. Serve salad as a 
separate course. The heavy salads, as chicken and lobster, are more 
suitable for luncheon and teas than for dinner. It is an improvement 
to fish, lobster and chicken salad if the meat or fish be allowed to 
marinate for a few hours in a dressing of one-third olive oil and two- 
thirds vinegar with a light seasoning of salt, pepper and mustard. 
All skin, bone and gristle should be removed from fish and meat. 
Then it is to be flaked or cut into small dice and piled upon lettuce 
leaves on a platter, mayonnaise spread over, and garnished with small 
lettuce leaves, slices of lemon, hard boiled eggs, capers, olives, pickles, 
beets, etc. Celery for salad should not be chopped, but sliced fine. 
Always use the very best oil. To fringe celery for a garnish, cut 
into 2-inch pieces; then stick several coarse needles in a cork, draw 
half the stalk of each piece of celery through the needles several 
times. Lay in cold water to crisp. Vegetable salads should be stirred 
as little as possible. 

Boiled Mayonnaise Without Oil. 

Boil y 2 cup of vinegar, butter the size of walnut, salt and paprika 
to taste. Beat 4 yolks of eggs and mix with the boiling vinegar. Then 
let it get cold. After it is cold, or when needed, put in a cup of 
whipped cream and mix well. MRS. JULIUS C. LANG. 

Boiled Dressing Without Oil No. 1. 

Two yolks eggs, y 2 lemon, 2 teaspoonfuls mustard. Mix with a 
little water, butter size of egg, sugar, pepper, and salt to taste. Steam 
over tea kettle. When cool add % cup of cream. 

MRS. J. ROSENBERG. 



:liance c v3S 

NATIONAL CJRQGEf»::Ca « 



SALADS 63 



Boiled Mayonnaise. 
Four yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, y 2 teaspoonful paprika, 1 
tablespoonful mustard, 1 cup oil (drop in slowly), 1 cup cream. Mix 
and boil in saucepan of water. Stir all the while it boils until thick 
as cream. When cold, stir in y 2 cup vinegar. Place in glass jar; 
leave uncovered. Should it curdle, place in cold water and stir until 
smooth. Will keep for months. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Boiled Dressing Without Oil. 

One egg unbeaten in sauce pan. Add y 2 cup of milk. Then add 
very slowly, stirring all the time, y 2 cup vinegar. Cook slowly 
until thick as cream. Add 1 tablespoonful mixed spices. Serve very 
cold. MRS. MANNIB COHEN. 

Egg Salad. 

One dozen eggs boiled and chopped, 1 large or 2 small heads of 
lettuce rinsed and shaken in a cloth to dry. Then chop fine and mix 
with eggs. Salad cream: 3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 
Add slowly 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2-3 cup of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 
mixed mustard, 1 tablespoonful butter, y 2 teaspoonful salt. Mix all 
together, set in a kettle of hot water and cook until it thickens. When 
cold add y 2 cup sweet cream or milk. Then pour it on salad and 
mix well. ' MRS. ELLIS H. GROSS. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Cold boiled asparagus tips. Add y 2 the quantity of any shell fish, 
salt, pepper. Pass through a sieve the yolks of 4 hard boiled eggs and 
beat up with a little oil, vinegar and salt to consistency of cream. Pour 
over the salad. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Egg Salad and Asparagus. 
Hard boiled eggs, cut lengthwise. Take yolks out and mix 
with smallest size can of Spanish peppers. Add 10 cents worth cream 
cheese, mayonnaise dressing, salt and a little red pepper, onion juice, 
and fill the whites of the eggs with this mixture. Put an olive on top 
of each and serve on plate with asparagus. 

MRS. PAUL BERKMAN. 

Stuffed Eggs in Tomato Jelly. 
Boil eggs hard, cut lengthwise and mash yolks with salt, pepper 
and ground chicken livers (which have been previously cooked) and 
chopped celery. Take half a can of tomatoes and put on the stove 
with a tablespoonful of Knox's gelatine. Remove and season with 
salt and pepper. Strain. Fill the eggs with the yolks and other ingre- 
dients, and set each egg lengthwise in a small mould. Fill the mould to 
the top with the tomato jelly, and let stand until set. Remove mould 
and serve on lettuce leaves. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Potato Salad No. 1. 
Boil potatoes and slice. Add chopped celery, green onions, olives, 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt, paprika, vinegar and mayonnaise. Gar- 
nish with shrimps. MR S. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Does your husband bank with the Pug-et Sound National Bank. 



64 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Stuffed Egg Salad. 
Hard boiled eggs, shelled and cut lengthwise. Take out yolks, 
mash well and add salt, pepper, butter and little lemon juice. Add 
small quantity of minced celery and either minced ham or chicken, or 
pounded anchovies, or minced chicken livers, and little mayonnaise. 
Fill whites of eggs with this mixture and serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Potato Salad No. 2. 
Boil potatoes until tender. Mix 2 beaten eggs with goose or 
chicken fat or butter, about iy 2 to 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, salt, pepper, 
1 onion and celery (chopped). Peel and slice the potatoes and mix 
with the aforesaid ingredients. Vinegar to taste must be added. 

MRS. J. R. HILLER. 
Potato Salad With Walnuts. 
Boil and slice potatoes. Add salt, pepper and little vinegar, 
chopped celery and grated onion. Take 1 cup walnut meats, boil in 
water with salt, bay leaves and onion for 15 minutes, and chop. Add 
meats to potatoes. Mix with mayonnaise and little thick cream. Chopped 
parsley and hard boiled eggs for decorating. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Sweet Potato Salad. 
Select 3 large sweet potatoes, boil and peel. When cold, cut into 
^-inch pieces. Clean and cut into small pieces 2 stalks of crisp celery, 
season with salt and pepper, and pour over it French dressing made 
of the following recipe: 3 tablespoonfuls olive oil, 2 tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, 1 tablespoonful onion juice, 1 tablespoonful each of salt and 
pepper. Place the salad in the refrigerator for 2 hours. Garnish with 
beets and sprigs of parsley. MRS. ELLIS H. GROSS. 

Stuffed Tomatoes No. 1. 

Ten or a dozen tomatoes. Pour boiling water over and skin. Cut 
off small piece from one end and scoop out part of the pulp. Salt 
and stand inverted for half an hour to drain. Mash one Neufchatel 
cheese, add a dozen olives or pimolas chopped, and the pulp of the 
tomatoes, a little paprika and salt, and lemon juice to taste; also 2 
tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. Fill tomatoes with mixture and 
put a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. Serve very cold on lettuce 
leaves. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Stuffed Tomatoes No. 2. 

Five tomatoes, 3 hard boiled eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, X A teaspoon- 
ful pepper. Cut a slice off the tomatoes and remove the hard center. 
Cut the whites of eggs in small pieces, and add the yolks mashed 
fine. Add to this the soft parts of the tomatoes, salt and pepper 
and a little mayonnaise. Fill the tomatoes and serve on lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise. MRS. L. R. PLECHjnER. 



RELIANCE 33KE 

NATIONAL GROCERY G0^, : 



SALADS 65 



Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Select tomatoes that are uniform in size. Scald and take off outer 
skin. Scoop out the inside. Set away on ice until ready to serve. 
Fill with the meat of tomato, shrimps, little chopped celery, chopped 
olives and mayonnaise. Serve on individual dishes, putting each on 
a lettuce leaf, and pour a heaping teaspoonful of mayonnaise dressing 
over each tomato. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Tomato Salad. 

Thick slice tomato served on lettuce leaves. On top tomato spread 
caviar, and then pour mayonnaise over. 

MRS. E. EPSTEIN, San Francisco. 

Brain Salad. 

Wash brains, then boil in salt water, adding celery and onion. 
Put on ice to harden. Serve with mayonnaise on lettuce leaf. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Sweetbreads and Pistachio Salad. 
Cut one pair sweetbreads in cubes. Mix with head of finely 
shredded lettuce, 1 cup mayonnaise dressing, to which has been 
added y 2 cup blanched and pounded pistachio nuts. Arrange in mounds 
and decorate with mayonnaise and sections OjI sour oranges. 

MRS. E. MORGANSTERN. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Sweetbreads boiled in salted water with 2 bay leaves and y 2 an 
onion until tender. Cut into dice and mix with equal quantity of 
minced celery, pepper, salt and lemon juice, and a few olives sliced. 
Mix with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce. Any preferred garnish. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Chicken Salad. 

Chicken previously cooked tender. Cut into dice. Mix with two 
hard boiled eggs cut into small pieces, a few olives cut up fine, half 
as much minced celery as chicken, pepper, salt, y 2 cup walnuts cut 
fine, lemon juice and mayonnaise to taste. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Combination Salad. 
Boil peas, asparagus tips, beans and cauliflower. When cold add 
lettuce, sliced tomatoes, celery cut in pieces, and the meat of a crab. 
Season with salt and paprika and mix with a mayonnaise dressing. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Beets Stuffed With Salad. 
Boil large beets in water until tender, but not to pieces. Peel and 
soak the whole beets in vinegar until cold and firm. Then hollow out 
the inside, being careful not to break the beet. Stuff with chicken, 
crab or celery salad, and serve on lettuce leaf with: mayonnaise or 
French dressing. MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 

Tor tl*£ most reliable optical work visit Albert Hansen's Optical De- 
partment, *eoTtter.#&*si and Cherry. 



66 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Waldorf Salad. 

Steam a chicken and let it get cold. When cold, cut in dice. Take 
2 pounds of Malaga grapes, cut in half and remove seeds, and y 2 
pound of English walnuts, cut up, but not too fine. Dressing for 
above: 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful pepper, 1 tablespoonful mus- 
tard, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Put on to boil 
in double boiler on stove until melted and mixed well together, then 
add one teacup of vinegar and let it almost boil. Have the yolks of 4 
eggs well beaten, stir them in, and continue to stir until it begins to 
thicken. Before using, mix as much whipped cream as dressing with 
it, and add to the chicken, grapes and nuts. Dressing must not be 
used until thoroughly cold. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Shell a pound of shrimps and cut each one in small pieces. Also 
cut up 5 or 6 pieces of celery, 2 hard boiled eggs, the heart of the 
lettuce, salt, pepper and enough mayonnaise dressing to make the 
salad of a moist consistency. Serve on a nice crisp lettuce leaf with 
a teaspoonful of mayonnaise dressing on top. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Crab Salad. 
Crack a couple of crabs, extract meat, which shred. Cut up 
celery, which mix with the crab meat and a little greeen pepper. Pour 
a little vinegar over this, and then mayonnaise to taste. Serve in 
platter surrounded with lettuce leaves. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 



Lobster Salad. 



Prepared same as above. 

Salmon Salad. 
Prepared same as above. 

Oyster Salad. 
One quart oysters boiled in their own liquor with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. Let boil up well and drain. Place in ice-box until 
needed. Then mix with equal quantity of chopped celery, few capers, 
salt, pepper and lemon juice. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise. MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Herring Salad No. 1. 
Chop 6 herrings skinned and boned, 1 apple, 2 eggs hard boiled, 
12 walnuts, parsley, and y 2 onion. Season with pepper and vinegar. 

MRS. B. GOTTSTEIN. 
Banana Salad. 
Peel your bananas, spread with mayonnaise dressing, then roll in 
chopped nuts (walnuts or pecans) and place on lettuce leaves. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 



RELIANCE 3E 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



SALAD 67 



Fish Salad. 
Serve to each person 1 Monterey mackerel soused in tomato. 
These come in cans. Serve on lettuce leaf with y 2 hard boiled egg 
and sliced lemon on side. Sprinkle over the fish some chopped green 
pepper, green onions and parsley. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Herring Salad No. 2. 
Six herrings, 3 boiled eggs, 1 red pepper, 2 red beets, 10 walnuts, 
2 apples, 3 salt pickles, capers and olives, a little parsley. Take a 
large onion, grate one-half, the other half cut in small pieces. Make 
milchner of herrings into thick mayonnaise by adding oil, vinegar, 
pepper and a little dry mustard. Cut everything into small pieces 
and mix well. Garnish with lettuce, hard boiled eggs and beets. 

MRS. R. LOBE. 
Macaroni Salad. 
Cook some macaroni until tender. When cool, cut into pieces an 
inch in size. Then chop plenty of celery, some olives, green pepper, 
parsley, hard boiled egg, 1 or 2 vinegar pickles, salt, pepper to taste 
and mix with the macaroni and mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaf, 
and decorate with egg and finely chopped beets. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 
Cucumber Salad. 
Pare cucumbers, lay in salt water for 30 minutes and scoop them 
out. Mix this with very small onions, pepper, salt, oil and vinegar, 
and refill cucumbers. Put on lettuce leaf and serve with mayonnaise. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Cream Dressing for Cucumbers. 
Five tablespoonfuls sour cream, 2 tablespoonful vinegar, y 2 tea- 
spoonful paprika, pinch salt, y 2 teaspoonful chopped chives. Mix 
very well, add to cucumbers and serve. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

. Cold Slaw. 
One head of cabbage cut very fine. Put a good saltspoonful of 
salt into it, mix thoroughly and let stand for a couple of hours. Take 
the potato masher and press it down, then squeeze between the hands 
to get out the brine. Then mix 1 cup of vinegar, y 2 cup sugar, y 2 
teaspoonful pepper, 1 onion cut very fine, and 3 tablespoonfuls olive 
oil. Mix this into the cabbage. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Grape Fruit Salad. 
Remove pulp of grape fruit. Cut pulp with nuts, pineapple, Maras- 
chino cherries. Add white wine and sugar to taste. Replace in grape 
fruit shells. Put on ice until ready to serve. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 

Cherry Salad. 
One can white cherries, y 2 cup hazel nuts blanched. Remove 
stone from cherry and place nut into each one. Serve on lettuce leaf 
with cream dressing. MRS. MOSE LEWIS, Montpelier, Idaho. 



No jewelers more reliable the world over than Lawrence L. Moore & Co. 



68 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Fruit Salad No. 1. 

One dozen white grapes, 1 dozen large red grapes, 2 bananas, 2 
oranges, 1 dozen English walnuts. . Serve with following sweet boiled 
sauce; 1 tablespoonful corn starch, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, a little salt, 
1 egg, 1 level tablespoonful butter, 1 cup cream, 1 tablespoonful lemon 
juice, y 2 cup whiped cream. Stir together sugar and corn starch. 
Add to egg beaten lightly. Add all to scalded milk or cream. Stir 
until thick before removing from fire. Add butter and lemon juice. 
Let cool. Fold in the whipped cream. MRS. I. BROWN. 

Fruit Salad No. 2. 

Cut pineapple and celery in small dice. Add y 2 cup pecan nuts, 
% cup seeded raisins. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

MRS. H. FRIEDLANDER. 



Fruit Salad No. 3. 

Alternate layers of sliced fruits, pineapples, bananas, oranges, 
grapes and some nut kernels. Pour over a wine dressing of y 2 cup 
sugar, 1-3 cup sherry wine and 2 tablespoonfuls Madeira. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Fruit Salad No. 4. 

In a punch glass slice a few red berries, pineapple and bananas, 
or any fruits that will blend. Always have juice of an orange. Just 
before serving, put over it 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar and chipped 
ice. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Cheese Balls for Salad. 

Rub together a package of cream cheese, few drops of 
onion juice and half a lemon. Use butter paddles in shaping the balls. 
A nut meat of the size of each or minced nuts may be mixed with 
the cheese. MRS. H. ELSTER. 

Cheese Puffs. 

Serve with salad. Place y 2 a cup of water and % cup butter in a 
pan. When boiling add 2 rounding tablespoonfuls flour and 1 of corn- 
starch which have been sifted together. Beat thoroughly while cook- 
ing for several minutes. Remove from fire, and stir in y 2 a cup of 
freshly grated cheese. Season with salt and paprika and beat in 2 
eggs singly. Use a spoonful of batter for each puff, and bake in 
moderate oven about one-half hour. Split open and fill with the fol- 
lowing: 1 cup of whipped cream mixed with Neufchatel cheese. 
Season with salt and pepper. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 



USE RELIANCE 



CANNED FRUITS 
VEGETABLES 



NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



SALADS 69 



A Few Simple Salads. 

Lettuce Salad. — Wash carefully each leaf of lettuce, using only 
the nice crisp ones. Serve in salad howl, with 4 hard boiled eggs on 
top sliced, and serve with a dressing made of vinegar, salt, pepper, a 
little sugar and a teaspoonful of French mustard. 

Artichoke. — Put on with enough water to cover, salt and a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil one-half hour. Serve cold with mayon- 
naise dressing on the side. 

Cucumber. — Peel and slice very thin as many as required. Salt 
well and put away with a plate and a weight on top to drain off the 
water. After half an hour or more prepare your salad dish with crisp 
lettuce leaves, and in the center place the sliced cucumbers from 
which all water has been drained. Pour vinegar over same which 
has been seasoned to taste with salt, pepper and a little oil. 

Tomato. — Scald the tomatoes and peel, afterward slicing them. 
Place the lettuce leaves in salad bowl, with the sliced tomatoes in 
the center, pouring vinegar over same which has been thoroughly 
seasoned with salt and pepper and a little sugar. 

Combination Salad. — Prepare cucumbers and tomatoes as above, 
and serve with crisp lettuce, vinegar, etc. Garnish top with chopped 
green onions. 

Cauliflower. — Serve cold with mayonnaise dressing. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 



A little cold chicken, and some gfood bread and butter — a dill pickle 
and a glass of Independent Beer — isn't that a g-ood appetizer? 



70 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Vegetables 



All fresh vegetables should be put on to cook in boiling water, and 
should not be allowed to boil after they are done. 

For onions, cabbage, etc., it is advisable to change the first water 
if the flavor is strong. 

Dried peas, beans and lentils should be soaked over night in water 
and put on the boil in cold water. 

Boil spinach in an uncovered pot to retain the color. 

Add a little sugar to the water in which green corn and peas are 
boiled. 

Never thicken vegetables by adding flour mixed with water. Al- 
ways put butter or fat in a saucepan, then add the flour, allowing it to 
brown a little, and add liquid from vegetables and put all together. 
Put vegetables in cold water about half an hour before cooking. 

The proportion of salt in cooking vegetables is a heaping table- 
spoonful to a gallon of water. A tiny piece of red pepper or a piece of 
bread put into the pot when vegetables or meat begins to cook will 
kill the unpleasant odor. Late in the season vegetables require a longer 
time to cook. Ihe secret of having potatoes mealy and palatable is 
to cook them rapidly. 



Time Table for Vegetables. 



Potatoes boiled 

Potatoes baked 

Sweet potatoes boiled 
Sweet potatoes baked 
Green peas, 
Squash, 
String beans, 
Green corn, 
Asparagus, 15 to 



25 minutes. 
45 minutes. 
45 minutes. 
60 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
25 minutes. 
60 minutes. 
20 minutes. 
30 minutes. 



Spinach, 

Tomatoes, 

Cabbage, 

Cauliflower, 

Onions, 

Beets, 

Turnips, 

Parsnips, 

Carrots, 



30 minutes. 
30 minutes. 

1 hour. 

30 minutes. 
l 1 /^ hours. 

2 hours. 
45 minutes. 
45 minutes. 

1 hour. 



:liance c v a ss 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



VEGETABLES 71 



Potato Dumpling. 
Boil 6 large potatoes the day before using. Grate them and add 
4 eggs beaten, a little ground allspice, salt and a tablespoon sifted 
flour. Stir all together. Bread cut into dice shape and fried in hot 
butter or goose oil can be added if toasted brown. Then shape into 
dumplings or balls. If not stiff enough, add a little more flour. These 
are boiled in hot water with a little salt. When served pour over them 
grated bread browned in butter. MRS. S. FRAUENTHAL. 

Grated Potato Pudding. 

Take \y 2 pints grated potatoes. Add y 2 cup flour, 1 cup fat, a 

grated onion, and season with salt and pepper. Beat up 2 eggs and mix 

all well together. Grease a pudding dish and pour pudding into dish 

and bake until well done. When done serve with any kind of sauce. 

MRS. K. GOTTSTEIN. 

Potato Pancakes. 

Grate about 12 cooked potatoes and 8 raw potatoes. Add 4 eggs, a 
little salt, a little onion sauce or grated onion. Fry in butter or butter 
and soup fat mixed. MRS. N.ECKSTEIN. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Slice potatoes and fill buttered baking dish. Add salt, pepper and 
bits of butter, little flour and fill three-quarters full with milk. Bake 
in oven. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Parsley Potatoes. 

Brown a little onion in butter. Add flour and soup stock to have 
a very thin sauce. Pare and slice potatoes rather thin. Let all boil 
together until potatoes are tender. Season with salt, pepper, a little 
ginger and chopped parsley. MRS. MONHEIMER. 

Schupf Noodle. 
Six boiled potatoes grated or riced, 3 eggs, y 2 cup flour, little salt. 
Mix well. Make into shape of fingers. Boil about 10 minutes in salted 
water. Then fry a nice light brown. MRS. FRED BORIES. 

Potato Timbale. 

Grate four raw potatoes into a pint of milk. Beat 2 eggs separately, 
add the yolks to the milk and potatoes, then stir in the whites. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste. Butter the timbale moulds, sprinkle 
with parsley, chopped fine, and fill with the mixture. Put moulds 
in hot water and steam for 20 minutes. Serve with cream sauce. 

MRS. E. ROSENBERG. 
Potato Stuffing. 

Four cups hot mashed potatoes, 2 teaspoons onion juice, y 2 tea- 
spoon pepper, 2 teaspoons salt, 2 tablespoons butter, yolks 2 eggs, % 
cup cream, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. Mix onion juice, pepper, 
salt and butter with potato. Add cream to beaten yolks. Mix with 
potato. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

"Colonial" is the watchword. Insist that your new carvers hear the 
stamp. 



72 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Escal loped Potatoes. 
Slice potatoes thin. Put in dish in layers, and on each layer put 
pepper, salt and bits of butter. Beat 1 egg in a cup of milk. Pour 
over potatoes. Bake until soft. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Take 2 cups of cold mashed potatoes, season well, add tablespoon 
melted butter. Beat whites 2 eggs stiff. Mix all thoroughly. Make 
into small balls, dip in beaten yolks of eggs. Roll either in flour or 
in cracker crumbs and fry. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Sweet Potato Waffles. 

Mix to a smooth batter y 2 cup sweet potatoes well boiled and 
mashed, together with 4 tablespoons flour and 1 each of butter and 
sugar, a salt spoon salt and a pint of milk. Bake the batter immedi- 
ately in a hot waffle iron on a griddle in form of cakes. 

MRS. SAM BROWN. 
Sweet Potato Croquettes. 

Bake 3 large sweet potatoes, peel and put through colander, add 
butter the size of a large egg, 1 tablespoon sugar, nutmeg to taste. If 
too dry, add a very little milk. Make in croquettes. Roll in egg and 
flour and fry in deep fat. MRS. S. BAUM, Portland. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes. 
Boil sweet potatoes until tender. Mash and run through colander 
while warm. Stir into this lump of butter, couple tablespoons sugar, 
14 cup cream and y 2 cup chopped walnuts. Roll into balls. Dip in 
well-beaten egg, then in bread crumbs. Drop in hot dripping and fry 
until light brown. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Sweet Potato Pone. 

Grate 3 large or 6 small potatoes. Add y 2 cup molasses, y 2 pound 
brown sugar, y 2 pound butter, y 2 cup milk and teaspoon ground ginger. 
Mix thoroughly and put in baking dish with little lumps of butter over 
the top, and bake y 2 hour to 45 minutes in a moderately quick oven. 
Serve hot. MRS. I. E. MOSES. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes. 
Boil 6 large or 12 small sweet potatoes. When done peel and 
slice lengthwise and place in a shallow pan. Cover well with brown 
sugar, y 2 cup molasses and large tablespoon butter, broken up into small 
pieces. Put in a moderate oven, as it burns easily, and baste every 10 
or 15 minutes. When thoroughly candied (which takes about 45 min- 
utes), place on a buttered platter and serve warm. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 



tmHEmttHB 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



VEGETABLES 73 



Savoy or Curly Cabbage. 
Clean and parboil. Then brown a little onion in hot fat. Into 
this drop the cabbage, season with pepper and salt and add a couple 
of white potatoes cut in dice shaped pieces. Steam, and before remov- 
ing add thickening of flour and water. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Savoy or Curly Cabbage. 
Boil curly cabbage in salt water. Drain and press water from 
cabbage. Chop fine. Then take a little fat and brown in it some 
chopped onions. Add the cabbage. Season with salt, pepper, ginger, 
and add soup stock. MRS. I. MONHEIMER. 

Red Cabbage and Sweet Potatoes. 

Cut the cabbage as for slaw, wash and drop into hot drippings. 
Add a little water to prevent sticking to pot. Steam an hour or so, 
then season with pepper, salt, a little sugar, cinnamon and a little 
vinegar, and cut into it a couple of sweet potatoes in cubes. Let boil 
until tender and thicken with a little flour and water. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 
Sauer Kraut. 

Spread well cleaned and washed cabbage leaves to cover the bot- 
tom of a wine or whiskey barrel. Have 25 heads cabbage cut fine. 
For 25 heads cabbage take 1 quart salt and mix well. Put cabbage 
into barrel and press very tightly. Spread on it a clean cloth, then 
over it some hardwood boards, then a stone to weigh it all down. Let 
remain 7 or 8 days. Then wash off all the foam that has gathered on 
the cloth, board and stone. If the washing process is done twice a 
week the sauer kraut will keep one year. 

Fried Cabbage. 

Take large slice butter, get very hot. Then take cold boiled or hot 
cabbage and chop fine. Put into butter and fry light brown, adding 2 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Peppers Stuffed With Corn. 
Scald and hollow green pepers. Fill in with stewed corn and 
bake in oven. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Stuffed Peppers. 

""Trim stem ends of green peppers and scoop out the seeds. Boil in 
salt water 15 minutes. Fill with this mixture. Make thick cream 
sauce, add any cold fish broken into bits, salt, pepper, grated cheese. 
Fill and sprinkle with bread crumbs and bits of butter on top. Bake 
in oven. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Pimentoes. 
Take pimentoes and put in timbale form first. Then put in 1 tea- 
spoon boiled macaroni and teaspoon cheese, and repeat until filled. 
Boil for y 2 hour, then turn out. Sauce: 2 yolks well-beaten, pepper, 
salt, butter size of an egg melted; put in with egg and add little vinegar. 
Put a tablespoon sauce on each timbale. MRS. E. EPSTEIN. 

R. S. V. P. Salt is" always dry' and never sticks to the shaker. 



74 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Stuffed Peppers. 
Remove tops and seeds of green peppers. Set in boiling water. 
While cooking prepare the following: For 8 peppers chop fine V^ cup 
blanched almonds, 1 cup boiled rice, 1 tomato chopped fine. Add 1 
teaspoonful onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. After stuffing pep- 
pers, place in pan and cover with y 2 cup water and tablespoonful 
butter. Bake 30 minutes. Serve with butter sauce. 

MRS. DINKELSPIEL. 

Stuffed Baked Peppers. 

Six green peppers, 1 cup dry bread crumbs, 1 cup chopped cooked 
meat, 3 tablespoons butter or dripping, 1 teaspoon salt. Milk to moist- 
en. Remove seeds and scald peppers 10 minutes. Drain, mix stuffing 
and fill into peppers. Set in a pan with water about an inch deep. 
Bake in rather hot oven until tender 30 to 40 minutes. Boiled rice 
may be used in place of crumbs. Serve with tomato sauce. 

MRS. L. NATHAN. 
Stuffed Sweet Peppers. 

Cut a piece off the part near the stem, scoop out the seeds, parboil 
in salt water. Take out gently. Let cool and fill with the follow- 
ing: Chop either left-over roast beef, tongue, chicken or any nice 
meat; add a few chopped olives, 2 hard boiled eggs chopped fine, piece 
of butter, little white pepper; also paprika, salt to taste, little grated 
onion, some chopped parsley. Mix all well together. Fill the peppers, 
put a piece of butter on the top of each. Place them in a dripping pan 
and bake for about 15 minutes. MARIA WILZINSKI. 

Squash Timbales. 
Take 2 cups cooked and mashed summer squash, add 4 beaten 
eggs, % cup milk, 1 good tablespoon butter, salt, paprika. Turn into 
molds, bake 15 or 20 minutes. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Summer Squash. 
Hollow out small squash, then boil squash. Mash the trimmings 
and season with butter, salt and pepper. Return to shells and bake 
in oven with little butter. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Scalloped Mushrooms. 
Skin and wash well some fresh mushrooms. Put in a saucepan 
with very little water. Let simmer a little while with a silver spoon 
to test poisoning. If the silver turns black, do not use them. Season 
with a good piece of butter, pepper and salt. Butter well a pudding 
dish. Put in a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of mushrooms, then 
more pieces of butter, then bread crumbs and mushrooms and butter 
until all is used up. Beat 3 eggs very light. Pour over all. Put in 
oven until eggs are set. Serve hot. MARIA WILZINSKI. 



•LIANCE'SE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



VEGETABLES 75 



Stewed Squash. 

Peel squash, cut in quarters, put on to boil in cold water and 
cook until tender. Drain water off. Mash fine and smooth. Add % 
cup milk or cream, 1 tablespoon butter, pinch salt and pepper, and 
serve hot. Beat well with a spoon to make light and smooth. 

MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 
Mushrooms. 
Take mushrooms, pare, wash and drain. Put some butter in 
saucepan and steam mushrooms in it. Then add pepper and salt. 
Serve on hot toast. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Mushroom Timbales. 
One cup white bread crumbs, 1 cup milk. Cook together until 
smooth. Take from stove and add whites of 5 eggs well beaten, salt 
and paprika, 1 cup of chopped mushrooms. Bake in buttered timbale 
forms 20 minutes. Serve with stewed fish. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Fried Tomatoes. 
Slice tomatoes thick, season with salt and pepper, dip in flour 
and fry in hot butter. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Chestnut Puree. 
Boil chestnuts until tender. Remove shell and brown skin. Pass 
through a sieve, add butter and salt, cook 10 minutes and serve. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Chestnuts and Prunes. 
One pound of evaporated chestnuts. Wash well and cover with 
boiling water and let stand over night. Next morning pick clean and 
use the water in which they have been soaked for cooking chestnuts, 
and add 2 tablespoons of nice soup fat, a pinch of salt and y 2 CU P °f 
brown sugar. Put on to boil and keep adding water until the chest- 
nuts are soft, which will take about 2% hours. When the chestnuts 
are nearly soft, add 1 dozen prunes and let cook down short. About 15 
minutes before serving, add a handful of raisins, seedless. Be sure not 
to stir the chestnuts with a spoon. Shake the pot if they stick. Each 
chestnut should stay whole. ROSE CAHEN, San Francisco. 

Frijoles or Spanish Beans. 
Boil 2 cups Spanish beans with 1 onion and 1 clove of garlic fried 
in butter until light brown, 1 green pepper, a few pepper corns, 
1 teaspoon paprika and 1 cup tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste. Add 
1 pound round steak cut into dice and fried brown in plenty butter. 
Cook all together 3 hours, well covered with water. 

MRS. FRED BORIES. 
Green Peas and New Potatoes. 
Boil 2 pounds garden peas with salt until tender. Boil iy 2 dozen 
small new potatoes with salt until tender. Make rich cream sauce. 
Pour over potatoes and peas with 2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

> MRS. FRED BORIES. 

If you are in doubt, patronize L. W. Suter, the reliable jeweler. 



76 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Baked Beans. 
Soak white beans over night. Put on to boil seasoned with salt. 
When done or tender put in a pan and sweeten to taste with syrup. 
Bake about 3 hours. Boil a piece of fat smoked beef. When almost 
done put in to bake in the pan with the beans. Beans cannot bake too 
long if sufficiently moistened by the fat of the meat. 

MRS. M. PRAGER. 
Vegetable Hash. 
Soak some lentils over night. In the morning boil until tender 
and mash through a sieve. Chop cold boiled potatoes, raw onions, 
and add to mixture. Also add bread crumbs. Season well with brown 
butter, salt, pepper, mustard. Moisten with milk and make quite soft. 
Heat a frying pan hot with butter. Pour in the mixture and cook 
as ordinary hash about 1 hour. MRS. JACKSON, Los Angeles. 

Carrots and Peas. 
Cut carrots into dice, add salt, pepper, little sugar and lump of 
butter and some water. When half cooked add peas, and thicken with 
a little flour. Cook about % of an hour longer. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Stewed Carrots. 
Cut carrots into small pieces, add a little salt and boil till tender. 
Add butter and flour and add to the carrots and sweeten to taste. 

MRS. J. R. HILLER. 
String Beans. 
Parboil, then strain and drop into hot fat into which onions have 
been browned. Season with pepper and salt and cut white potatoes in 
dice shaped pieces. Drop in and let simmer until done. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 
String Beans. 
Put fat in pan and steam a small minced onion in it. Add 1 tomato 
cut up. Add the string beans and steam until tender, adding a little 
soup stock. Season with salt and pepper. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Sweet and Sour String Beans. 
Take nice beans, and after having cleaned them, boil in water 
with salt to taste until tender. Brown butter and flour and add vinegar 
and sugar to taste and stir into the beans. 

MRS. JACOB R. HILLER. 
Succotash. 
One can corn. Add a pint of cooked lima beans, place in saucepan 
with large piece of butter, salt, pepper and y 2 pint milk. Heat up well 
and add little Worcestershire sauce and 1 teaspoon flour well blended 
with milk. MRS. S. ARONSON. 



DTI I A MA^C CANNED FRUITS 
KtUANLt VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



VEGETABLES 77 



Stuffed Artichokes. 

Take as many artichokes as required and boil until tender. Boil 
4 extra ones, remove hearts with a spoon. Keep artichokes whole. 
Chop extra hearts and pass through sieve; also a few cooked sweet- 
breads. Season with salt and pepper, add y 2 cup cream, 1 egg well 
beaten. Fill in artichokes and put in pot. Steam 1 hour and serve with 
cream sauce. MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Eggplant, Lyonnaise. 
Peel the eggplant and cut it into round slices about one-third of 
an inch thick. Peel and slice a couple of onions. Place them in a 
stewpan with plenty of butter and fry them until lightly browned. 
Then put in the slices of eggplant, season to taste with salt, pepper 
and grated nutmeg. Pour over a small quantity of stock and stew 
gently until tender. When cooked, strew a moderate quantity of finely 
minced parsley over the eggplant, turn it into a hot dish with the 
sauce over it and serve. MRS. S.BROWN. 

Baked Eggplant. 
Cut eggplant lengthwise and parboil. Drain off water, scoop meat 
from eggplant, being careful not to break the skin. Brown a piece of 
butter, add eggplant, some bread crumbs, salt and pepper and yolk of 
1 egg. Mix well together and refill shell of eggplant. Bake in a 
pan in oven and baste with butter. 

MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 
Baked Rice. 
Boil rice, and when done make a sauce of 1 large tablespoon butter 
and 2 tablespoons canned tomatoes. Pour over rice and put in baking 
pan. Put pieces of butter on top, and bake until brown. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Rice Dumplings. 
Left over rice and mix thoroughly with 2 eggs, a pinch of salt 
a little sugar. Add flour enough to make a paste and drop with a tea- 
spoon into boiling hot fat. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 
Baked Asparagus. 
Cut asparagus into equal size pieces and boil in salt water until ten- 
der. Drain. Place in buttered baking dish layer of asparagus, sprin- 
kle with fine bread crumbs, bits of butter, pepper, salt and small pieces 
of hard boiled eggs. Repeat until dish is full, top layer to be bits 
butter and crumbs. Bake Y 2 an hour and serve in dish in which it is 
baked. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Cauliflower. 
Take boiled cauliflower and steam in butter with a little onion. 
Add pepper and salt. MRS. GUS BROWN. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. 
Boil cauliflower in salted water. Make cream sauce, pour over the 
drained cauliflower, add 1 spoon grated bread crumbs, 3 spoons grated 
Parmesan cheese, bits of butter, and bake 15 minutes. 

, MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Order Independent Beer and accept no other. 



78 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Mock Oysters. 
Grate 6 ears of boiled corn, beat whites and yolks of 3 eggs. Add to 
corn with 1 tablespoon flour, 1 of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Drop 
by spoonful into hot fat or lard and fry brown on both sides. Canned 
corn may be used if desired. MRS. SAM BROWN. 

Corn on the Cob. 
Put corn in boiling water mixed with y 2 cup milk and 2 tablespoons 
of sugar. Cook 20 minutes. MRS. J. V. GRUNBAUM. 

Corn Pudding. 

One pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 teaspoon white 
sugar, 6 ears corn. Grate the corn from the cob, beat the whites and 
yolks of the eggs separately. Put the corn and yolks together. Stir 
hard and add the butter, then the milk gradually, beating all the 
while; next the sugar and a little salt; lastly the whites. Bake slowly, 
at first covering the dish, for an hour. Can be made also from a can 
of corn. Serve with stewed tomatoes. MRS. FRANK LOEB. 

Stewed Celery. 
Cut celery stalks in pieces \y 2 inches long, and boil in salt water. 
Then drain off water. Boil in another saucepan 1 cup milk with 1 
tablespoon butter. Add a little flour which has been dissolved in 
milk, pinch salt and pepper. Let boil up, put celery in and let it come 
to a boil together. Serve hot. MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 

Celery Timbales. 
To 1 pint of cooked celery pulp (take enough celery and cook 
soft) add a little salt and pepper, y 2 cup of cream and 4 well-beaten 
eggs. Mix well, butter timbale moulds, fill three-quarters, stand in a 
pan of hot water and bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. Turn out on a 
platter and pour over a cream sauce with the yolks of 2 eggs mixed 
in, or instead of eggs put in oysters or shrimps in cream sauce. 

MRS. E. MICHAEL, Spokane. 

Spinach Croquettes. 
Made from left-over spinach. Mix with 2 tablespoons of butter, 1 
of minced parsley, 1 teaspoon of sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon. 
Add salt and pepper to taste and y 2 cup of milk thoroughly heated. 
Then cook. When cold shape into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs 
and fry in the usual way. MRS. H. W. FRIEDLANDER. 

Spinach — German Style. 
Boil spinach in salt water. Drain and mash fine. Brown flour and 
onion in butter. Add hot soup stock. Season with ginger, salt and 
pepper. Put in spinach and cook until tender. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 



RELIANCE 39KS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



VEGETABLES 79 



Spinach. 
Boil the spinach tender, then strain, press out all the water. Put 
into a chopping bowl and chop until very fine. Flavor with salt, a 
little ginger and pepper. Soak a cracker in cream and add to the 
ingredients. Before putting it in a stewpan heat a good piece of butter 
with a little flour and grated onion. Add the spinach, also a little soup 
stock. When ready to serve, mix in 2 raw eggs and stir briskly. Then 
serve. MRS. S. FRAUENTHAL. 

Spinach Balls to Serve With Fish. 
Wash the spinach thoroughly and put same on to boil until tender. 
Then remove from stove and chop fine. Now have ready a frying pan 
with hot butter, and stir in the spinach. After seasoning same to taste 
drop in yolk of 2 eggs and continue stirring until well mixed. Add 
enough toasted bread crumbs so can handle and form into small balls. 
Roll in egg, then toasted bread crumbs and fry to a delicate brown. 

CARRIE A. FORTLOUIS. 

Spinach Souffle. 
Three tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, % spoon salt,-l cup 
cream or milk, 1 cup cooked spinach, yolks of 3 eggs, % cup grated 
New York cream cheese, whites of 3 eggs, white pepper and paprika 
to taste. Make a sauce of butter, flour and cream. Add seasoning, 
then spinach. Press spinach dry first and pass through sieve. Add stiffly 
beaten yolks, cheese and fold in beaten whites. Bake in a buttered 
pudding dish for 25 minutes or in individual dishes placed in a pan of 
hot water. One-half cup of soft sifted bread crumbs, tablespoon grated 
cheese stirred into % cup melted butter should be spread upon top 
before baking. Ser\>e at luncheon. Cauliflower cooked dry may be 
prepared the same way. MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Lettuce and Peas. 
Mince a head of lettuce and cook with about 3 pounds of peas until 
tender. Season with salt, pepper and butter. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Light Dumplings for Stews. 
One cup flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, y 2 teaspoonful butter, 
enough milk to make soft dough. Sift flour two or three times with 
baking powder added. After preparing in this way, chop the butter 
into above. Wet with milk, making soft dough. Flour hands well to 
handle lightly like biscuits. Form into small balls and drop into boil- 
ing water. Cook 10 minutes and serve immediately or they will be 
heavv. CARRIE A. FORTLOUIS. 



Have you ever eaten Haynes' "Special Chocolates?" They leave a 
taste you don't forget. Ring* up Main 1111 for another box. 



80 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Meats 



Meat should never be allowed to stand in the paper in which it is 
wrapped, as the paper absorbs the juices. 

Meat should not be soaked in cold water, as the blood is drawn out 
and much of the nutriment is wasted. 

Intense heat, as boiling and broiling, etc., hardens the outside, 
keeping the juices in, so in roasting beef have a skillet, very hot, with 
a little fat in, and sear the beef on both sides before putting it into 
the oven, thus preventing the juices from escaping. By cooking slowly 
after the first few minutes the meat will cook tender. 

Prime beef is of a bright red color, dry and elastic to the touch, 
and the fat, which should be abundant, is white and firm. 

The tenderloin and sirloin are the most desirable roasts. A rib 
roast is the most economical for a small family. The bones should be 
removed, as these furnish a valuable contribution to the soup kettle. 

In breading meats be sure that the crumbs are very fine, or they 
will drop off in spots. 

TIME FOR ROASTING MEATS 
Beef — Fifteen minutes to a pound. 

Mutton — Ten to the pound for rare, and 20 for the well done. 
Lamb — Fifteen to 20 mintes to pound. 
Veal — Twenty minutes to the pound. 
Turkey — Medium sized, 3 hours. 
Goose — Medium size, 2y 2 hours. 
Chicken — One and a half to 2 hours. 
Duck — One and a half to 2 hours. 
Wild Duck — Twenty to 40 minutes. 

For boiling meats, allow 20 minutes to a pound for fresh, and 35 for 
salt. Salt meat should be put on in cold water. Boiling or stewing 
fresh meats should be put on in hot water. 



■LIANCE'vSS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



MEATS 81 



Beef a la Mode. 
Brown an onion in butter. Season well with salt and pepper, a 
piece of the sirloin cut off the rump. Put into hot butter in a sauce- 
pan and brown on both sides. Then add a little finely chopped garlic. 
Simmer with as little water as possible for two hours. Then add a 
finely chopped carrot and a slice of rye bread and let cook until done. 
Cook slowly a long time, well covered. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Short Ribs of Beef Spanish. 
Get the small ribs of beef and put on with water enough to cover, 
seasoning with salt, pepper, an onion and a tiny kernel of garlic. Let 
it cook about two hours, and then add a can of tomatoes and season 
highly either with red peppers or paprika or Gebhard's Chili Powder. 
The last is very fine for Spanish flavoring. Short ribs must cook at 
least three hours. MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Short Ribs With Yellow Turnips. 

Get the small ribs and put on with plenty of water, an onion, pepper 
and salt. After boiling about an hour and a half add five or six yellow 
turnips cut in small pieces, and half an hour before serving add six 
or eight potatoes cut in small pieces. Water must be added as neces- 
sary. A little sugar will improve the flavor, and as it simmers the 
turnips will soften and give the whole dish the appearance of a stew. 

MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 
Roast Beef. 

Prime ribs of beef seasoned with pepper and salt and slices of 
onion and put in a very hot frying pan on top of the stove. Sear both 
sides and then place in oven, basting from time to time with a little 
water. Allow 20 minutes to the pound, and when finished take out 
meat and add flour mixed with water to thicken the gravy. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 
Filet of Beef. 

Slice filet of beef into rather thick slices, make incision in each, 
flatten and fill with chopped onions and parsley previously sauted in 
butter. Fry two pieces of bacon slightly for. each piece and place 
around each filet and skewer with toothpicks. Fry quickly in butter. 
For sauce, cook trimmings of filet to a broth, strain and thicken 
slightly and add mushroom catsup to taste. Place fried chicken liver on 
top of each filet, and pour sauce around. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Hamburg Steak. 

Have round steak chopped. Add salt, pepper, grated onions, 
chopped parsley, green peppers, y 2 cup cold water, 2 slices of soaked 
bread (don't drain). Form into balls and fry in hot grease. 

MRS. I. MONHEIMER. 
Round Steak. 
Round steak cut in pieces and rolled in flour, salt and pepper. Place 
in a spider a layer of steak and a layer of onions, and then repeat. 
Cover all with water. Cover tightly and cook in medium oven until 
tender. 

The American Saving's Bank has its own elegant fire-proof building*. 



82 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Rolled Stuffed Steak. 
Take 2 pounds of beef steak, lay it on a chopping board, and pound 
it with a rolling pin 20 minutes. Mix a handful of bread crumbs, a table- 
spoonful of chopped cherries, an ounce of butter, pepper and salt and 
an egg. Mix all together. Put on the steak, tying it tightly. Bake in 
oven for 20 minutes. Serve with horseradish sauce and parsley. 

MRS. S. LEVINSON. 
Steak en Casserole. 
Broil a thick steak a few minutes, then put it into casserole. Add 
1 carrot, 1 onion, some parsley minced, 1 bay leaf, y 2 turnip, 1 tea- 
spoonful catsup, 6 mushrooms, 1 wineglassful Madeira wine. Let cook 
slowly until vegetables are tender. 

Baked Steaks. 
Two porterhouse steaks. Put in a roasting pan with a layer of 
grated bread crumbs, bits of butter, y 2 a cup of tomatoes, chopped 
onion, salt and pepper between the steaks. On the top, put a little 
grated bread crumbs and chopped onion. Add another y 2 cup of to- 
matoes and soup stock. Bake and baste frequently with soup stock. 
Thicken sauce and add chopped parsley. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Brisket with Corn and Tomatoes. 
Cover a choice cut of brisket of beef with boiling water. In another 
pot brown a little onion in fat, scald a few tomatoes, skim, cut up and 
drop in; also cut the corn off six ears, and a half bell pepper. Drop 
meat into this when done, and season well with pepper, salt and 
paprika. Serve meat on platter surrounded by corn and tomatoes. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Brisket of Beef with Beans. 
Boil the end piece of the brisket in water well salted; add pepper, 
onion, celery and two bay leaves. Cook until tender. Meanwhile cook 
one cup dry lima beans in water with salt, pepper and a little fat, until 
tender. Ah hour before serving place brisket in baking pan, pour 
beans around and two cups of the stock and brown in oven. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Brisket of Beef with Bay Leaves. 
Use the "point" of the brisket, and put on with plenty of water, 
skimming before seasoning. Then season with four or five pieces of 
bay leaf, an onion, whole peppers, pepper and salt. Boil three to four 
hours. MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Rosetti. 
Make a rich beef stew, add 1 can strained tomatoes and 1 cup rice. 
Boil all together, and season with salt and paprika. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 



RELIANCE'S"^ 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



MEATS 



Hash Baked. 
Cut an onion up fine and put in dripping pan to brown with a little 
butter and a little fat. When brown, add 1 tomato and the meat, which 
has been chopped fine. Season with salt, pepper and Worcestershire 
sauce. Have your baking dish lined with mashed potatoes and fill with 
the above, which has been well mixed. Let brown nicely. 

MRS. m' PRAGER. 
Mock Birds. 
Take thin veal steak and cut in slices three by five inches. Put 
in the center of each a little chopped boiled ham, a small lump of but- 
ter, salt, pepper, chopped parsley and a little chopped onion. Make 
little rolls of them and tie or pin with a tooth pick. Brown them well 
in hot butter. Add a little soup stock and flour and boil. Add one cup 
sour cream shortly before serving. 

Plain Hash. 

Brown chopped onion in a large spoonful of fat and stir in cooked 
meat hashed, and also a little cold cooked potatoes. Season with 
salt, pepper and paprika and mix together well, adding soup stock or 
left-over gravy to moisten. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Meat Loaf. 

Take 2 pounds ground round steak, add 3 slices soaked bread not 
drained, 1 raw egg, 1 chopped onion, little parsley, very little garlic, 
salt and pepper. Knead very well. Boil 2 eggs hard and place in cen- 
ter of the meat which is made into a loaf. Bake in oven with plenty of 
chicken fat, tomato catsup and sliced onions and a little water, basting 
often. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Mock Roast Duck. 

Make a dressing of bread, season as for chicken and moisten. 
Take two large slices from round of veal, about 3 pounds. Salt the 
meat, cut out the bones, and close the holes with two or three stitches. 
Sew the edges together and put in the dressing. This will give the 
whole the appearance of a smooth oval body. Rub three ounces each 
of butter and flour to a cream and with a knife spread evenly over the 
form, except where it touches the pan. Put one-half a cup of water in 
the pan with the roll, and bake in moderate oven about one hour, or 
until thoroughly done. The crust should be a golden brown, like a 
roast duck. Remove carefully from the pan to platter, so as not to 
break the crust. 

Note — Flank steak may be prepared the same way. 

Veal Fricadelles. 
Chop left-over cold veal very fine, add some cooked rice, season 
well with salt, pepper, paprika, left-over gravy and a well beaten egg. 
Form in cakes, dip in well-beaten egg and then in cracker meal, and fry 
a golden brown in chicken fat or plain fat. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

You are making- a mistake in using- anything* but a Great Majestic 
Range. 



84 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Veal Loaf With Boiled Eggs. 
Two pounds chopped veal, 1 small onion grated, *4 teaspoon 
pepper, 1 teaspoon salt, y 2 cup cracker crumbs, 1 raw egg, 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, y 2 cup soup stock, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Mix all 
together with the exception of the hard-boiled eggs. Put a layer about 
an inch in thickness in a well-greased pan, place the boiled eggs (whole) 
in the center, then fill up the pan with the veal remaining. Place bits 
of butter or drippings over the top and bake, basting frequently. 

MRS. L. R. PLECHNER. 

Fried Veal Cutlets. 

Season well with pepper and salt, dip in a well-beaten egg, and then 
in cracker meal or bread crumbs, then fry in hot fat until well done 
and brown. Serve with tomato sauce. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Veal Stew With Dumplings. 
Cut up brisket of veal into small pieces for stew. When washed 
and drained, season with pepper, salt and paprika. Take a tablespoon 
of fat in which cut up an onion, and brown lightly, then add meat, on 
which sprinkle a couple of tablespoons flour, and stir until it browns a 
little, then add boiling water to cover, a carrot, leek and some celery 
cut up small. Cover, and let cook slowly until not quite done. Then 
add dumplings made as follows. 1 quart flour, y 2 teaspoon salt, iy 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 egg well-beaten, water enough to make a 
thick batter. Then put over the meat (not the gravy) a tablespoonful 
of the batter at a time, and cover closely for about fifteen minutes. 
When ready for serving, remove dumplings, sprinkle stew with chopped 
parsley, which serve in platter, surrounded by the dumplings. 

MRS. PAULINE JOSEPH. 

Fricasee of Veal With Cauliflower. 
The brisket of veal, cut in small pieces. Put some dripping in pot 
and brown the pieces of veal on both sides. Then drain off the 
fat, and put in an onion, cut in small pieces, a small carrot cut fine, and 
a piece of celery. Cover with water (or soup stock), seasoning with 
salt and pepper. Simmer for about two hours. Serve on a platter, sur- 
rounded by nicely cooked pieces of cauliflower. 

MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Boiled Mutton With Caper Sauce. 
Boil from 2 to 3 hours a leg of mutton in water seasoned with salt, 
pepper and an onion. For the sauce boil a pint of milk, thicken with 
flour, add butter, pepper and two tablespoonsful of capers. Pour over 
mutton and serve. 

MRS. S. LEVIN SON. 



.LJHniOCi VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



MEATS 85 



Crown of Lamb. 
Let the butcher arrange the ribs in a crown of lamb, roast it, sea- 
soning with salt, pepper, an onion and a little garlic. Serve with either 
green peas or head lettuce, and surround platter with French browned 
potatoes. 

Boiled Mutton. 
Boil shoulder of mutton iy 2 hours. Then put in potatoes and boiled 
string beans, blend butter and flour, and serve together. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 
Leg of Lamb With Rice. 
Season a leg of lamb. Add water, a little minced garlic, and a 
whole sliced onion. Roast, basting frequently, about one houd and a half. 
Then add half cup of rice. Roast another hour, basting frequently. 
When done strain rice into a separate dish and serve with lamb and 
gravy. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Pot Roast of Lamb. 

Salt and pepper shoulder of lamb. Put fat in saucepan, add onion 
and garlic, and brown meat on both sides; pour off grease and add soup 
stock and cook until tender. Thicken gravy with a little flour. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Lamb Stew With Peas. 
Brown a little onion in hot fat. Have the brisket cut up in small 
pieces. Wash, dry and then drop into the hot fat. Season with salt, 
pepper and paprika, sprinkle over a little flour until all is browned. 
Then add water or soup stock and cover. Boil peas separately, and 
add with chopped parsley before serving. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Sauerbraten. 

Take a solid piece of beef, say about five or six pounds, put it in a 
deep jar and pour enough boiling vinegar over it to cover it; you may 
take one-third water. Add to the vinegar when boiling four bay leaves, 
some whole pepper corns, cloves and whole mace. Pour this over the 
meat and turn it daily. In summer three or four days is the longest 
time allowed for the meat to remain in this pickle, but in winter eight 
or ten days is not too long. When ready to boil, heat some nice poultry 
drippings in a stew pan. Cut up one or two onions in it, add a little 
brine and stew until onions are tender, and then put beef in. Stew 
closely in a covered crock about three hours and thicken gravy with 
flour. 

Pickled Meat. 

Use a piece of brisket of beef about seven pounds, have all bones 
removed, wash clean, pepper and salt well. Boil enough water to cover, 
put in stone jar to cool, and add a piece of saltpetre the size of a 
walnut, four or five bay leaves, a few cloves, allspice and whole black 
peppers, and salt enough to make a brine on which an egg will float 
When perfectly cold, add meat, and cover with plate to keep meat sub- 
merged. Then cover stone jar. Should be ready for use in three days. 
MRS. PAULINE JOSEPH. 

Lawrence L. Moore Co., the Jewelers, may toe relied on implicitly. 



86 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Four Course Dish. 

Take a piece of boiled beef as large as you need. Take carrots 
and slice them across. Put in with meat and cover with water; cook 
till half done. Take 2 eggs, y 2 cup water added to eggs, % cup of fat. 
Grate into this an onion and season with salt and pepper. Mix enough 
flour (a little more than for a cake) as for dumplings and put on top of 
carrots and meat. Take 3 or 4 sweet potatoes. Peel them and put on 
tops of dumplings. Cook slowly and do not let burn. When potatoes 
are nearly done, add one-third cup sugar. Serve meat with the dump- 
lings. The carrots and sweet potatoes may be served together. 

MRS. K. GOTTSTEIN. 
Stewed Tongue With Raisins. 

Put the tongue, after washing, in water enough to cover it with 
a handful of salt. Parboil in order to peel it; then rub well with 
salt, pepper, ginger, mace, cloves and allspice. Strain the water in 
was boiled in and put it back in it to stew. Throw in a large handful 
of raisins (stoned), a tablespoonful brown sugar, y 2 teacup vinegar, 
and one hour before it is done, put in some lemon juice. Let it stew 4 
hours; throw in a few whole cloves, allspice, and a little onion. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 
Smoked Tongue With Split Peas. 

Soak both the split peas and the tongue over night. Cook the 
tongue at least four hours, seasoning with a kernel of garlic and whole 
peppers. Cover tightly. Make a puree of split peas by boiling about 
iy 2 cupfuls with salt, pepper, a small piece of butter and a piece of 
onion in water. Serve the tongue on the platter, surrounded by the 
split peas. MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Goulash. 

One pound shoulder steak or veal, one pound shoulder of lamb cut 
into pieces two inches square. Put into pan some fat and cut into it 
an onion sliced. When very hot add meat. Keep covered and let cook, 
adding salt, pepper and paprika, two large tomatoes and a pinch of 
caraway seed and a little boiling water. Cook iy 2 hours. Half an 
hour before serving add potatoes cut into small pieces and cook until 
tender. 

Goulash No. 2. 

Get a choice piece of beef and cut into small parts. Then cut up 
a good sized onion and let same brown in hot fat, after which add the 
meat, seasoning same well with salt and paprika and leave it simmer 
from 15 to 20 minutes, turning it occasionally so as not to burn or 
scorch on either side. Then let same stew for three-quarters to an 
hour (or just long enough till nearly cooked), adding three potatoes 
quartered and enough water over same to boil. The potatoes should 
not be added until from 15 to 20 minutes before serving. 

MRS. JACOB R. HILLER. 



iLlANCEtS? 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CHICKEN AND OTHER POULTRY 87 



Chicken and Other Poultry 

In choosing chickens, take those with yellow legs. The meat will 
be whiter when cooked, and the flavor is also considered superior to 
that of the dark-legged ones. In a young fowl there is a cartilaginous 
substance at the end of the breastbone which bends easily without 
breaking. If it has become bone, the fowl is old. 

Young geese have yellow feet, slightly tinged with pink, which 
age deepens to a bright red. All fowls should be hung neck down- 
ward, so that they may bleed. Do not allow poultry to soak in water. 

Singe poultry by holding over gas or blazing paper. Remove pin 
feathers with point of a knife. Remove internal organs at once. Make 
an incision at the vent and remove entrails, taking care not to break 
the gall bladder, which is near the liver. Remove windpipe and pull 
out the crop, and take out the oil bag near the tail. Take out the 
lungs and kidneys. Cut open the heart and pres^ out the blood. Cut 
open the gizzard and remove the inner coat. Wash chicken and dry 
well. 

In boiling fowls, put into hot water, unless soup is wanted; then 
put into cold. A little vinegar added to the water in which they are 
boiled makes fowls more tender. 

In stuffing poultry, fill the body a little fuller than the breast, sew 
up the openings with strong white thread. Remove threads before 
sending to the table. 

Stewed Chicken With Noodles. 
Stew a chicken until tender. Season the gravy and add browned 
sliced onions. Boil noodles in salted water, put bits of butter and 
grated parmesan cheese with noodles. Add to stewed chicken. Strain 
chicken gravy, thicken with a little browned flour, y 2 cup tomatoes 
and boil for a few minutes. Pour over chicken and noodles and serve 
in deep dish. MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Spanish Chicken With Macaroni. 
Fry onion in butter. Add red pepper, chili peppers, paprika and 1 
can tomatoes. Cut up chicken and cook in above. Add cracker dust, 
olives and green peppers. Boil macaroni and pour off water. Then 
add one-half of gravy of chicken. When done add Parmesan cheese, 
mushrooms, little garlic and cook few minutes. Serve with chicken. 

MRS. GUS BROWN. 

Albert Hansen's Jewelry Store, at the corner of Pirst and Cherry, is 
perhaps the finest on the coast. Visit it without fail. 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Chicken Goulash. 

Boil chicken until tender. Take chicken out and remove bones. 
Cut chicken into small bits (except liver, heart and gizzard). Put 
back into liquor and add y 2 can tomatoes, 2 onions sliced, salt, pepper, 
pinch of sugar, little butter and cook until tender. Pour over buttered 
toast. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Chicken Paprika. 

Take spring chickens and quarter them, fry in butter, add finely 
chopped onion, a little tomato, little bouillon, salt, paprika and add % 
pint sour cream before serving. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Spanish Chicken. 
Joint 2 chickens, place in stewing kettle, season with salt, pepper 
and paprika. Cut up 1 large onion and 2 cloves of garlic, and brown 
slightly in butter. Add to chicken, also a small bay leaf, a few chili 
peppers, 1 can tomatoes and 1 can of mushrooms. Thicken with meal 
or cream of wheat. When ready to serve, have some French peas 
heated and well seasoned. Draw off all juice and pour over chicken as 
it is served. Also add olives to chicken. MRS. FRED BORI3S. 

Chicken Terrapin. 
One chicken cooked tender in a little water, seasoned with onion, 
celery, pepper and salt. Pick flesh from bones, and add liver and 
gizzard chopped very fine. Add 2 hard boiled eggs, also finely chopped. 
Make cream sauce with butter and cream, add y 2 wineglass sherry and 
chicken broth reduced. Add to other mixture and serve in ramakins. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Chicken la Strange. 
Bone boiled chicken. Butter a bake dish and put a layer of the 
chicken, then a layer of sliced boiled eggs and a layer of mushrooms, 
season and repeat until dish is as full as desired. About 3 eggs are 
required. Then take 1 cup cream and 1 cup of the chicken broth and 
heat with 1 tablespoonful flour. Pour over chicken and bake. 

MRS. JOSEPH FRIEDMAN, St. Paul, Minn. 

Escalloped Chicken. 
Stew chickens until tender. Then shred into small pieces. Put 
skin and giblets through a meat grinder and mix with chicken. Make 
a thick cream sauce, thin with 1 pint rich cream and season well. Put 
in baking pan, and alternate chicken with a very slight sprinkling 
of cracker crumbs. Serve hot. MRS. MOSE LEWIS. 

Chicken Fricassee. 
Cook chicken till well done. Add to gravy 1 pint cream, 1 can 
mushrooms, pinch paprika, piece of butter and thicken with flour. 

MRS. H. W. FRIEDLANDER. 



.LIHIlUL VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY GO. 



CHICKEN AND OTHER POULTRY 89 



Brown Chicken Fricassee. 

Take a fat chicken, cut as for fricassee, and salt and pepper it 
overnight. Add one onion. In the morning put on to boil on slow 
fire, with fat and 1 cup of water. Cook 1 hour. Then ohop the onion 
and 1 kernel of garlic and fry brown in a little chicken fat. Add to 
chicken and cook until soft, turning repeatedly to brown on all sides. 
Now pour off most of the fat, and add can of mushrooms and 1 cup 
of water. Thicken with a little flour. This is very nice served with 
noodles. MRS. A. L. JAFFE. 

Chicken and Asparagus. 

Cut into small pieces the white meat of boiled chicken. Mix with 
it the tips of cooked asparagus. Season well. Add rich poulette 
sauce. Put into ramakins. Grate cheese on top. Bake in pan of 
water until cheese is brown. MRS. L. SCHWABACHER. 

Chicken Chartreuse. 
One cup cooked chicken minced fine, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 
y 2 teaspoon onion juice, y 2 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons tomato catsup, 
1 egg, dash of pepper. Grease well a pudding dish, line it 1 inch thick 
with cooked rice, fill the center with chicken mixture and cover top 
with rice so chicken is entirely covered. Cover dish and cook in 
steamer 45 minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. MRS. L. M. STERN. 

Chicken en Casserole. 

Two chickens disjoined, salt, pepper and flour very slightly. 
Place butter or chicken fat in saucepan, add large onion cut fine and 
a little garlic. Toss chicken in this for a few minutes and pour all 
into casserole with 2 cups of water, a little celery salt and cook cov- 
ered until almost tender. Pour all into a bowl and add y 2 cup of 
canned tomatoes, y 2 pint of pimolas, y 2 can mushrooms and paprika. 
Put all back into casserole and finish cooking. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Creamed Chicken. 
Cook 1 chicken, until very tender. Strain the liquor and dice the 
chicken. Melt 2 tablespoons butter and add 2 tablespoons flour. Mix 
until smooth. Add gradually 1 cup of the strained chicken liquor and 1 
cupful of either cream or milk, salt and pepper to taste. Then add 
the diced chicken and 1 can of mushrooms. Cook until thoroughly 
heated. Serve on toast, rosettes or in timbales. 

MRS. MOSE LEWIS. 
Dressing for Poultry. 
Butter and brown in it onion cut small. Then take gizzard and 
liver and chop fine. Add some soaked bread and brown together, sea- 
son and add parsley minced. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Squab Casserole. 
Squab buttered well and put in crock. Add celery, onion, carrot, 
pepper and salt to taste. Baste continually. Then add can mush- 
rooms and of peas and little flour. Keep covered all the time. Make a 
dressing for squab as for chicken. MRS. GUS BROWN. 

If your dealer doesn't handle "Colonial" Cutlery deal with one who 
does. 



90 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Chicken Timbales — No. 1 
Put 2 cups of chicken meat through a meat grinder. Soak a cup 
of bread crumbs in milk. Drain. Add to chicken meat. Season with 
salt and pepper. Add 2 well-beaten eggs % cup of cream, 2 table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, y 2 can chopped mushrooms. When mixed 
add 2 tablespoons dry bread crumbs. Butter timbale molds, place in 
a pan of water and bake 20 minutes. Serve with following sauce: 
One cup cream, 1 cup chicken broth. Put in double boiler. Thicken 
with yolks of 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons flour. Season, add tablespoon 
chopped parsley, tablespoon of butter and y 2 a can of French peas 
which have been previously cooked and seasoned. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Chicken Timbales — No. 2 
One-half cup cream, 1 tablespoon of finely chopped truffles, whites 
of 4 eggs, 2 cups cooked white meat of chicken, salt and pepper to 
taste. Chop the meat very fine and pound to a smooth paste, adding 
the cream gradually. When well mixed, season and add the truffles, 
then one at a time the unbeaten whites of 2 eggs, mixing the first 
with the paste until it has disappeared before adding the second. 
Beat the remaining whites to a stiff froth, and stir them carefully 
into the mixture. Fill the greased timbale molds half full with mix- 
ture, place in pan of hot waTer, bake in moderate hot oven for 20 
minutes. Serve hot with cream mushroom sauce. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Chicken a la Marengo. 
Cut up chicken, brown in fat, add 1 spoon flour, add soup stock, 
1 glass sherry. Season well. Add mushrooms and olives. Poach 
eggs and dress the chicken on toast. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Supreme of Chicken. 
For 12 persons: Filet the breasts of six large spring chickens, 
taking out also the small filet next to the bone and splitting it. Make 
an incision in each breast and fill with the following mixture: Some 
of the dark meat put through the meat grinder, whites of 3 eggs, y 2 
pint cream, seasoning. Pound very well. Place on top of each the 
small filet opened and place a slice of truffle and 2 button mushrooms 
on top of that. Place all the filets in a buttered baking pan and cover 
with chicken broth. Let simmer on top of stove covered for about 
half an hour; then put pan in oven uncovered half an hour longer. 
Make a sauce with butter, flour and cream. Add sherry, chopped 
mushrooms, 1 pound sweet breads previously cooked and cut up, 1 can 
pate de fois gras and the gravy of the chicken. 

, MRS. S. ARONSON. 



USE RELIANCE 



:UANCE3SK£ 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



rCHLOKEN^ND OTHER POULTRY 91 



Chicken Pot Pie — Southern Style. 
Clean, singe and draw a fat hen or large chicken. Cut in pieces 
as for fricassee, put on with water to cover it, season with salt and 
pepper, and if not very fat a piece of hutter. Let cook until tender 
and thicken with flour. Make a rich pastry as for pies, line a pudding 
pan with some of the dough, put in all of the cooked chicken, 3 hard 
boiled eggs, cut in slices some small pieces of butter, a little more 
salt and pepper. Pour in some of the gravy in which the chicken 
was cooked. Put a crust of the pastry on top, stick with a fork, make 
a hole in the center of the top crust and from time to time add more 
of the gravy if any was left out. MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 

Chicken Tamales. 

Cut up a fat chicken in small pieces. Add salt and pepper, add 
water enough to cover, add a can of tomatoes. When chicken is tender 
pickto small pieces, add corn meal to the stock to thicken, and a 
tablespoon of chili powder, and olives. To fill in corn husks: Soak the 
husks in lukewarm water, cut off the round and pointed ends with a 
scissors. Cook some corn meal mush and spread on the husks, and 
put your tamales on this, about a tablespoonful or more, and roll up. 
Tie both ends and steam for % hour, or until good and hot. You can 
add some lard or butter to the corn meal. You can also use the stock 
from the chicken to boil the corn meal in. 

MRS. EMILY FRANK. 

Squab Casserole. 
Portion for three squabs. Season squabs well, put in covered 
pot with a piece of butter the size of an egg and let brown. When 
browned, add enough soup broth to make a good dish of gravy. Mix 
and use liberally of all seasonable vegetables, cut with vegetable cut- 
ter, so that they will be -uniform. Boil all together; when half done 
put in pot with squabs. Cut potatoes with vegetable cutter and brown 
in fat, when cooked add to squabs. When finished put all in casserole 
dish and add to top % can asparagus tips. Dressing for squabs. Take 
small portion of soaked bread and cook in hot fat with the liver and 
heart of squabs chopped fine. When cooked beat well and add 1 raw 
egg and fill squabs with this mixture. 

MRS. LOUIS RUBENSTEIN. 



If you want to earn 4 per cent, on your money, deposit it -with the 
People's Savings Bank. 



92 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Puddings 



Puddings are of three kinds — boiled, steamed and baked. To 
steam a pudding, put it into a buttered tin or granite dish, tie a cloth 
over the top, first dredging it with flour, and set into a steamer. Cover 
the steamer closely, allowing a little longer than you would for boiling. 
Boiling requires nearly twice the time necessary for baking. 

Puddings should be turned out carefully. 

Puddings that are to be boiled should be put into plenty of boiling 
water and kept at a steady boil. A boiled pudding should be turned 
over once or twice, so that it will not stick to the bottom of the kettle. 
On removing a pudding tied in a cloth, plunge it quickly into a basin 
of cold water. If there is much bread in the pudding tie it rather 
loosely to allow for the swelling, but tie a batter pudding tightly. Use 
a small quantity of salt in all puddings. In baked puddings the cus- 
tard separates into curds and whey if the oven is too hot. When a 
cloth is used for boiled puddings it must be dipped in hot water, 
wrung dry and well coated on the inside with flour before the pudding 
is enveloped in it. In making puddings always beat the eggs separately, 
adding the whites last. If boiled milk is used let it cool before 
adding the eggs. When fruit is added, stir in last. Serve boiled pud- 
dings immediately after taking from bag. Pudding cloths should 
never be washed with soap. Bake custards, in cups set in a pan of 
hot water. 

Maple Charlotte Russe. 
Take 1 good size tablespoon of gelatine in a little cold water until 
soft, add % cup of hot maple syrup and stir until dissolved and cooled. 
Before it begins to thicken add 1 pint of thick whipped cream to the 
gelatine mixture, folding it in carefully to keep from lumping; then 
turn into cups or molds. MRS. E. ROSENBERG. 

Fig Pudding. 
24 figs chopped fine, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups bread crumbs, iy 2 cups 
suet chopped fine, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, a 
little salt. Boil 3 to 4 hours. Serve hot, milk (whipped cream favored 
with cherry brandy) or with a brandy sauce. 

MAUDE T. CARO, San Francisco. 



:LIANCE c v?Sf 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PUDDINGS 93 



Tapioca Cream. 

One-quarter cup tapioca, 2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 1-3 cup sugar, y± 
teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Pick over tapioca and soak 1 
hour in cold water to cover. Add to milk and half of sugar, cook in 
double boiler until tapioca is transparent. Beat egg yolks slightly, add 
remaining sugar and salt, then add hot mixture gradually. Return to 
double boiler and cook until it thickens. Remove and cool and fold 
in whites of eggs beaten stiff. When mixture is evenly mixed pour 
into a glass serving dish or glass cups, cool and serve. 

RENA HERMAN. 
Spanish Cream. 

One quart milk, % box gelatine, 4 eggs, y 2 cup sugar, 10c macaroons, 
flavor with vanilla. Boil milk, dissolve the gelatine in a little cold 
water, add gelatine to milk, beat yolks of eggs and sugar together and 
add to milk, let come to a boil, add beaten whites of eggs, break up 
macaroons and add last. Then beat entire mixture, let get cold and 
serve with whipped cream. MRS. S. FRANK. 

Fig Pudding. 

One-half pound of figs, % pound of grated bread crumbs, 2y 2 
ounces powdered sugar, 3 ounces butter, 2 eggs, 2 teacups milk. Chop 
the figs and mix with butter. Then add the other ingredients. Butter 
and sprinkle a mold with bread crumbs, pour in pudding and boil three 
hours. Serve with a hard sauce of butter and sugar. 

MRS. ELLIS H. GROSS. 
Delmonico Pudding. 

Pour 3 cups of milk over y 2 box Knox's gelatine and let stand 1 
hour. Beat yolks of 4 eggs with 2 cups sugar until creamy. Mix with 
milk in which gelatine has been dissolved and boil in double boiler until 
it thickens. Pour out and cool. Beat 4 whites and stir toegther. Cut 1 
slice candied pineapple into small pieces and pour maraschino juice 
over it. Crush macaroons (about 10 cents' worth) into pineapple; also 
cut small bottle of maraschino cherries up with it. Put in bottom of 
pudding dish 1 layer of fruit and macaroons and then 1 layer of 
boiled mixture, alternating until all is used. Let stand 24 hours. Serve 
with whipped cream. MRS. JACOB R. HILLER. 

A Dainty Dessert. 

One pint thick sweet cream, 1 2-pound can grated pineapple, 1 
tablespoon gelatine, white of 1 egg and y 2 cup sugar. Whip cream to 
stiff froth, add the well-beaten white and the pineapple and sugar, then 
the gelatine, dissolved in a little milk. Serve on slices of angel food 
cake. LOTTIE LEWIS. 

Pineapple Meringue. 

Select a medium sized pineapple, chop, add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
water. Stir until sugar is dissolved and cook until thick and rich. Beat 
yolks of 6 eggs well and pour over 3 cups very hot milk. Mix well and 
cook in double boiler until a little thick, stirring constantly. Pour cus- 
tard into bowl and chill, then add pineapple syrup and 2 teaspoons gela- 
tine. Pack in mold for 8 hours. Serve with whipped cream. For 12 
persons. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

35c buys a 2 oz. bottle of Mapleine — enough for two g-allons of syrup. 



94 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Pineapple Cream. 
Line a fruit dish with lady fingers. Then cover with grated pine- 
apple (sweetened to taste). Cover the whole with whipped cream and 
set on ice until ready to serve. MRS. J. R. HILLER. 

Pineapple Pudding. 

Cook juice of one can pineapple, y 2 glass sherry wine, y 2 cup 
sugar, y 2 box Knox's gelatine; let cool. Whip whites of 2 eggs, also 1 
pint of whipping cream stiff. Mix all together. Cut pineapple in little 
squares, add some chopped walnuts and a few candied cherries. Put in 
mold one layer of the pudding then layer of fruit and so on until mold 
is full. Can use the same with orange juice and oranges. 

Sauce — Yelks of 2 eggs, use little cream of pudding, little brandy, 
y 2 cup milk, a little sugar; boil and when cool, whip. 

MRS. E. BORIES. 
Rice and Fruit Dessert. 

Cook 1 cupful of rice in plenty of boiling salted water 20 minutes, 
drain and steam for 10 minutes — shake lightly into a large high bowl 
while warm; let it mold into shape. Meantime open a can of fruit, 
pears, peaches, anything desired, or use fresh fruit; pineapple is very 
fine; apricots are delicious. Drain juice from fruit and cook with sugar 
until it forms a syrup; in using fresh fruit make the syrup; lay the 
fruit in syrup for a few minutes, then unmold the rice in a large flat 
dish, cover all over with the fruit; then pour syrup over until all is 
used. Served either hot or cold, with whipped cream. 

Macaroons may be used instead of fruit, using maple or wine fla- 
vored syrup. MRS. N. DEGGINGER. 

Nut Loaf. 

One pint chopped nut kernels (walnuts), 1 quart grated bread 
crumbs, or you can soak bread in water; % pound butter. Pour 1 
pint boiling water over all. Add 1 egg well beaten, salt and pepper. 
Butter a baking dish, cover the buttered surface with bread crumbs 
and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. Turn 
out on a platter. Garnish and serve with cranberries. 

MRS. MARTIN JACKSON. 

Matzo Kugel. 
Soak 6 matzos, heat some fat in a spider, press all the water 
out of the matzos and dry in the spider of heated fat. Add about y 2 
pound matzo meal. Stir the matzo and the meal together, add by 
degrees 10 eggs, one yolk at a time, 3 or 4 pounds pounded almonds, 
1 cup sugar and grated peel of a lemon. Add one sour apple grated, a 
pinch of salt, and last beaten whites of the eggs. Add raisins, currants 
and citron. Line pudding dish well with fat and pour about half a 
pound of hot fat over kugel. 



RELIANCE 35KB? 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PUDDINGS 95 



Spanish Pudding. 

Two cups milk put in double boiler, one-third of a package gela- 
tine dissolved in cold water for half an hour, yolks of 3 eggs well 
beaten with y 2 cup sugar. Add gelatine to hot milk, then the yolks, 
but do not boil. Flavor with vanilla. When cold add to stiffly beaten 
whites. Serve with whipped cream or with strawberry sauce made as 
follows: y 2 box strawberries, 1 cup water, boil 20 minutes; add juice 
of a lemon, strain, and add % cup sugar, and % teaspoon corn starch 
dissolved in cold water. Boil a few minutes. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Lady Finger Pudding. 
Line a mold with half lady fingers standing; then put a little cream 
in dish, then lady fingers, then whipped cream and crumbled lady 
fingers, sugar and flavoring. Put on ice and turn out. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 
Neapolitan Pudding. 
Soak y 2 box gelatine in 1 cup cold water for an hour. Bring to a 
boil 3 cups of milk and dissolve in it the gelatine, add % cup sugar, 1 
cup cream. Divide in 3 portions, one portion flavor with \y 2 teaspoons 
vanilla and color with melted chocolate; second portion flavor with 
orange and color with beaten yoke of egg; third portion leave white 
and flavor with y 2 teaspoon lemon. First put white in mold; when 
partly set, add second portion; then first portion. Serve with whipped 
cream. MRS. H. PICKARD. 

Orange Pudding. 
Beat yolks 2 eggs with 1 cup sugar, add juice 6 oranges, chopped 
pineapple and a few drops lemon juice. Add half box gelatine dissolved 
in water and whites beaten to a froth. This makes 12 cups. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Orange Gelatine Pudding. 
Yolks six eggs, beaten 15 minutes with nine tablespoons sugar; 
juice 10 oranges, 1 package gelatine dissolved in half cup white wine. 
Warm, but do not boil. Stir until it gets cold and hard; add beaten 
whites, stir well and put in oiled form. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Orange and Lemon Gelatine Pudding. 
Four eggs, five sheets of gelatine, a small cup of sugar, the juice 
and rind of one orange and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs with the sugar thoroughly, then add the lemon, orange 
juice and rind; beat again. Melt the gelatine in about a half cup of 
boiling water and when cool add drop by drop to pudding and keep on 
beating. Last add the beaten whites and mix lightly. Put into pud- 
ding dish and place in cool place. Either served with a wine and 
jelly sauce or else with fresh or stewed berries. ROSE CAHEN. 

Auflauf. 

Four eggs, 6 tablespoons milk, 3 heaping tablespoons flour, pinch 
salt. Butter pan and bake in quick oven. Serve with preserved fruit 
or jelly. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL . 

If you want a good cup of Chocolate, you must use Gliirardelli's. 



96 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Baked Bananas. 
Remove skin from bananas, cut lengthwise in halves and put in 
baking dish. Sprinkle with sugar, dot with lumps of butter and sprinkle 
little nutmeg on top. Bake in moderate oven 20 minutes, basting 
occasionally. Serve cold with cream. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Peter Pan Dessert. 
Cut a banana in four strips, cross two over two in basket shape, 
fill center square with tablespoon of ice cream and sprinkle over all 
some chopped walnuts, pistachio nuts and marshmallows cut in strips. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 
Banana Pudding. 
Five bananas mashed to a pulp, with five teaspoons sugar, one 
cup whipped cream, one package of lemon jello dissolved in half a cup 
of boiling water. Put in mold. When ready to serve garnish with 
whipped cream and candied cherries. LOTTIE COHEN. 

Baked Pears. 

Take large green pears, put into baking pan with sugar, water, 
little cinnamon, piece of butter and bake until tender. Strew pow- 
dered sugar over before serving and serve with cream. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Jellied Pears. 

Peel and core large green pears. Make a syrup and add to it 
one pint claret, a cinnamon stick, some lemon juice and little vanilla; 
boil pears in this until tender. Take out pears and put into glass dish. 
Mix with syrup iy 2 teaspoons gelatine, dissolved in cold water, and pour 
over pears. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Caramel Custard. 

One tablespoon flour, mix with half cup milk. Place 1% cups milk 
in double boiler and scald; add half cup sugar (browned). Take 3 eggs, 
beat very lightly; add milk and flour and stir all into scalded milk until 
thick. Remove from fire; put into sherbet glasses and allow to chill. 
Serve in whipped cream. To brown sugar, place in frying pan, and stir 
until brown. MRS. I. BROWN. 

Custard Float. 

Yolks of three eggs; one pint milk; two tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
one-half teaspoonful of corn starch beaten in with the yolks. Let milk 
come to a boil, then stir in eggs. Flavor with vanilla. Beat up the 
whites of eggs with 3 teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar just before 
serving. MRS. M. M. FREDRICK. 

Individual Prune Souffle. 

One pound prunes cooked and run through a sieve, 1 cup nuts 
chopped fine, 1 cup sugar, whites of 6 eggs mixed together. Put in form 
or individual dishes, set in water and bake 20 minutes. Serve with a 
thin custard sauce and whipped cream. MRS. FRED BORIES. 



RELIANCE 



NATIGNAl^GROCERY GO. 



CANNED FRUITS 

AND 

^VEGET4EU.ES 



PUDDINGS 97 



Noodle Charlotte. 
Make noodles of 3 eggs. Mix 12 yolks of eggs, \y 2 cups sugar, 
raisins and currants, iy 2 lemons, rind and juice, 1 cup almonds, y 2 cup 
walnuts, 1 orange, 1 grated apple, glace fruit cut fine, and add to boiled 
noodles. Add beaten whites. Bake slowly in hot oven. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Noodle Pudding. 
Take y 2 of the noodles made of 1 egg cut very fine, and boil in 
salted water, and drain in cold water. Yolks 6 eggs, 6 tablespoons 
feugar, rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 grated apple and handful grated 
almonds, a few tablespoons milk, whites of eggs, beaten. Mix all to- 
gether and bake 20 minutes and serve with wine sauce. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 
Plain Custard. 
Prepare in a granite kettle 1 quart milk with sugar to taste and 
a pinch of salt. Let it come just to a boil. Meanwhile beat 4 eggs 
light in a large bowl. Then pour the boiled milk over the eggs gradu- 
ally, stirring it until all is in. Have your custard cups or ramakins 
buttered beforehand. Pour in and add just a little nutmeg over the top. 
place them in a dripping pan with some water in the bottom. Bake 
in moderate oven until stiff. Serve cold. 

MRS. M. WILZINSKI. 
Prune Whip. 
36 to 40 primes boiled, when cold remove pits and chop very fine 
with a few blanched almonds. Beat 6 eggs to a froth, and mix thor- 
oughly with the primes. Bake 20 minutes in a slow oven. Sweeten' 
with a little sugar. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Prune Gelatine. 
One pound prunes. Boil till well cooked and have about 1 pint 
liquor left. Take 6 eggs and separate them, adding 1 cup sugar. Beat 
sugar and yolks very well ; then heat 1 cup milk and stir milk into yolks 
and sugar. Take iy 2 tablespoons gelatine and dissolve in y 2 cup milk. 
Put juice of prunes into milk and yolks and mash prunes well and 
stir them in. Then add gelatine. Beat whites of eggs well and stir 
into the prunes. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

MRS. K. GOTTSTEIN. 
Prune Whip — No. 2 
Thirty primes cooked soft and mashed through a colander, 1 cup 
sugar, y 2 teaspoon baking powder. Add flavoring and whites of 5 eggs 
very stiff, a pinch of salt. Butter a dish placed in a pan of hot water 
and bake in oven y 2 hour. Serve with whipped cream. Add chopped 
nuts if desired. MRS. F. BORIES. 

Chestnut Pudding. 
Take off peel and skin 2 pounds chestnuts and boil in 1 pint milk 
till tender, and put through a colander. Stir well, a little less than y 2 
pound of butter, add gradually 6 yolks, add chestnuts, y 2 pound sugar 
and a handful of almonds, and lastly 6 whites beaten to snow. Boil iy 2 
hours and serve with wine sauce. ROSA LOBE. 

Mapleine Ice Cream's all the go. Make it at home. 2 oz. bottle 
Mapleine for 35c. 



98 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Chestnuts and Prunes. 
Peel 1 pint chestnuts and skin. Then boil until tender. Boil 1 
pint prunes until tender. Mix chestnuts in with prunes, leaving water 
prunes were cooked in, season with sugar, cinnamon and lemon juice 
and cook together. Add a little soup stock, then a wine glass of sherry. 
Serve hot. Be careful not to break the chestnuts or prunes. 

MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 

Summer Pudding. 
Two tablespoons corn starch, \y 2 cups water, y 2 cup sugar, juice 
of 1 lemon. Let come to a boil. Three whites of eggs beaten very stiff. 
Beat up with former mixture. Put in form. Sauce: 3 yolks of eggs, 3 
tablespoons sugar, 1 cup milk, vanilla. Boil until slightly thick. Pour 
over form. MRS. A. L. BARMON. 

Cabinet Pudding. 
Six yolks well beaten, 1 glass sugar (granulated), 1 glass sherry. 
Put all in a double boiler. Stir in y 2 package dissolved gelatine. When 
thick remove from fire and add beaten whites. Line a mold with maca- 
roons and candied cherries and serve with whipped cream. 

CARRIE KOCH. 
Snow Pudding. 
Whites of 5 eggs well beaten, % cup sugar, beat thoroughly. Add 
very gradually and alternately juice of 2 lemons, wineglass of sherry 
and % package gelatine disolved in a little cold water. Beat constantly 
and add the liquids a few drops at a time. Serve with whipped cream 
colored rose and flavored with rose water. Decorate with maraschino 
cherries. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Lady Finger Pudding. 
Take lady -fingers, put jelly between, lay in a deep dish. Then 
make a custard of three eggs and a pint of milk. Let custard cook and 
pour over lady fingers. Beat pint cream, flavor with vanilla and sweeten 
and pour over custard. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Marshmallow Trifle. 
Cut y 2 pound of marshmallows into small pieces and mix them 
with y 2 pint stiffly beaten cream flavored with sherry. Serve in frappe 
glasses with 2 or 3 strawberries or candied cherries on top. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Marshmallow Pudding. 
Whites of 2 eggs, 7 tablespoons bar sugar, 1 tablespoon vanilla, 
1 tablespoon gelatine (granulated), dissolved in 1 cup hot water. Beat 
15 minutes altogether, whisk in 1 small can grated pineapple. Then 
cool 1 hour. Serve with plain or whipped cream. The whites of eggs 
are beaten together with the rest of the ingredients. 

MRS. A. E WILZIN. 



RELIANCE 5S 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PUDDINGS 99 



Easy Dessert for Warm Weather. 

Spread either lady fingers or macaroons on large square platter, 
cover with a layer of grated apples and 1 of whipped cream. Spread 
second layer of cake, apples and cream and garnish with maraschino 
cherries. Place in ice chest and when, well chilled cut in squares and 
serve. MRS. EMAR GOLDBERG. 

Huckleberry Dumpling. 
A loaf stale baker's bread. Cut off the crust and soak in cold water, 
then squeeze dry. Beat 3 eggs light, yolks and whites together; add 1 
quart berries and mix all together with a little brown sugar and a pinch 
of salt. Boil steadily 1 hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 
Rotha Gritze. 
One pint strawberry or currant juice. Boil with sugar 15 minutes. 
Thicken with corn starch. Pour in mold. Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Strawberry Pudding. 
Take strawberries, mash enough through a sieve to make a pint 
of canned or fresh berries. Take y 2 box of gelatine, soften gelatine 
with y 2 cup of cold water. When soft add y 2 cup very hot water, then 
a pint of thick whipped cream, stirred in with gelatine and strawberry 
juice and a cup of sugar. Stir mixture until thick and pour in mold. 
Serve with cream and dot with fresh berries. Put in square mold. 

MRS. M. A. GOTTSTEIN. 

Cuckoo Charlotte. 
Make pie crust. Take as many apples as wanted for use. Take 
out core and fill with sugar, raisins, nuts, citron, cinnamon. Put pie 
crust in spring form, fill with the apples, bake until nearly done. Then 
take 4 eggs, separate yolks from whites, beat the yolks and sugar to- 
gether. Add 3 rolled crackers and last the beaten whites. Pour over 
apples and put in oven again until done. MRS. H. PICKARD. 

Watermelon With Brandy. 

Cut out and remove a piece of the center of a watermelon. Pour 
into the opening 1 pint of brandy or champagne. Replace the piece of 
melon and put melon in ice box for 5 or 6 hours. Serve cut into slices 
with the rind off. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Snow Balls — No. 1 
Swell rice in milk, drain it and lay it around some apples previ- 
ously pared and cored. Put a bit of cinnamon, lemon peel and a clove 
in each. Then tie them in a cloth and boil them well. They are eaten 
with hard sauce. MRS. HILLER. 

Snow Balls — No. 2. 
Pare and core apples, steam for 15 minutes, then fill centers with 
marmalade and chopped nuts; frost outside with white of 1 egg beaten 
stiff with powdered sugar, then cover with shredded cocoanut. 

MRS. H. W. FRIEDLANDER. 

If you are making" a chocolate icing-, save time hy using Ghirardelli's 
Ground Chocolate. 



loo 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Dessert. 

Peel fresh figs and cut in pieces. Add to hulled strawberries, 
with sweetened whipped cream and serve very cold. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 



Mix 



Grated Apple Pudding. 

Grate 4 large apples, add yolks of 4 eggs beaten with 5 tablespoons 
sugar, the grated peel of % lemon, pinch of salt, % cup cracker meal. 
Add beaten whites last, put almonds on top of pudding just before bak- 
ing. Bake in spring form and serve with stewed fruit or wine sauce. 

MRS. S. BAUM, Portland, Ore. 

Grated Apple Pudding. 

Grate 7 large apples, beat yolks of 8 eggs with 2 cups powdered 
sugar, 3 dozen stale lady fingers grated, grated peel of lemon, then 
the whites beaten stiff. Mix all together, strew blanched almonds on 
top. Bake in well greased pan in moderate oven and serve with 
Whipped cream. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Apple Float. 

Stew partially 1 quart apples. Then mash well. Add the whites 
of 3 eggs, well beaten, and a heaping teaspoonful of loaf sugar. Beat 
all together 15 minutes. Eat with cream spiced with nutmeg. 

MRS. M. M. FREDRICK. 

Zwiebach Apple Torte. 

Peel and slice 7 or 8 apples, then cut into sixteenths. Place 2 table- 
spoons butter, 6 tablespoons sugar in a saucepan with the apples and a 
little water and lemon. Steam until apples are soft (about 15 min- 
utes). Beat 6 eggs together well, then add 1 pint sour cream and 2 
tablespoons vanilla, a little cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves. Put with 
apples and steam until it thickens. Stir once in a while. Crumb 10 
pieces of Zwiebach with sugar and cinnamon. Butter tin and line with 
crumbs. Pour the mixture over and then the rest of the crumbs and 
bits of butter on top. Bake until set and brown. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 
Baked Apples. 

Pare and core apples, divide into quarters, dip each piece in flour 
and fry in butter. Put into baking pan, stick a blanched almond in 
each piece, dust with cinnamon and sugar and pour claret, about a pint, 
over the apples and bake in the oven. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Apple Charlotte. 
Soak a couple of matzos, press out every drop of water, add 6 
apples, y 2 pound of finely shaved suet, sugar, raisins, cinnamon, alm- 
onds, yolks of 7 eggs and whites beaten to a froth. Bake ab^ut an hour. 



RELIANCE 



CANNED FRUITS 
VEGETABLES 



NATIONAL GROCERY CO^ 



PUDDINGS 101 



Apple Omelet. 
Peel and halve enough apples to fill a pudding dish. Add any jelly 
or jam in flakes. Also flake some butter and sprinkle with sugar and 
add a little water. Put into the oven until apples are tender. Mean- 
while for 1 omelet separate 3 to 4 eggs, beat lightly the yolks with 
sugar. Add a level tablespoon flour, a little baking powder, vanilla, 1 
lemon, last the whites of eggs beaten light. Pour over the apples and 
bake till brown. Serve at once. R. LOBE. 

Stuffed Apples. 

Make a syrup of sugar and water, not too thick. Take 8 acid apples, 
wash and core. Take 1 pint of shelled pecans, mix with 2 tablespoons 
of granulated sugar and 1 of cinnamon. Stuff the apples with this mix- 
ture, put in a large pan, pour syrup over them and baste till done. 
Can be eaten hot or cold, with or without whipped cream. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 
Brown Betty. 

One cupful bread crumbs, 2 cupfuls chopped apples, y 2 cupful 
sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon and 2 tablespoons butter cut into bits, y 2 
cup chopped walnuts, little vanilla and salt. Butter baking dish and 
spread with alternate layers of apples flavored and sweetened, and of 
bread crumbs with nuts and butter, last layer being crumbs. Bake in 
moderate oven about y 2 hour, the dish being covered. Serve cold with 
cream or hot with lemon sauce. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Cuckoo Charlotte. 
Peel and core apples, fill with sugar and grated almonds, put in a 
pudding dish, add a small piece of butter and steam. Beat yolks 
of 6 eggs with sugar to taste, add % cup cracker crumbs, % cup grated 
almonds; last add whites beaten stiff. Pour over apples and bake 20 
minutes. Serve with wine sauce. MRS. N. ECKSTEIN. 

Dutch Peach Pudding. 

Separate 2 eggs, beat the yolks, add a cupful of milk, y 2 teaspoon 
of salt and a tablespoon of melted butter. Mix and beat in a cupful 
and a half of flour that has been sifted with 3 level teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Stir in carefully the well beaten whites and pour the 
batter into a shallow greased pan. Put halves of canned or fresh 
peaches on top, sprinkle with 6 tablespoons of sugar, and bake in a 
quick oven for y 2 hour. Serve warm with peach sauce, hard sauce or 
cream. Make peach sauce from the liquor in the can. 

MRS. ELLIS H. GROSS. 

Peach Dessert. 

Put layer of sliced and sweetened peaches in deep dish and cover 
with thick layer of sponge cake crumbs, over which sherry has been 
poured. Pour over this a rich custard while warm. Beat whites of 2 
eggs to a froth. Add 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons jelly, vanilla, 
and beat well. Put over top of custard. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

No city can boast of more reliable banks. Take, for instance, the 
Pug-et Sound National Bank. 



102 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Coffee Cream. 

One cup strong coffee, 4 leaves gelatine dissolved in a little coffee 
and added to hot coffee, 2 yolks and 1 white of egg, vanilla* bean cooked 
in coffee about 5 minutes, then taken out; 1 pint cream beaten well. 
Put all ingredients together, let set over night. Eat with strawberry 
jam. MRS. GUST AVE BROWN. 

Ginger Sherbet. 
Juice of 4 lemons, 1 cup sugar boiled with 3 pints of water for a 
few minutes, 1-3 of a package gelatine dissolved in cold water and 
added to the boiling water, whites of 2 eggs well beaten, 1 cup of 
preserved ginger cut fine and the syrup that is with it. Mix all to- 
gether and freeze several hours. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Lemon Dessert. 
Beat the yolks of 12 eggs and a little less than 2 cups of granulated 
sugar together until light and creamy. Dissolve 4 sheets of gelatine 
in y 2 cup of boiling water and stir into the beaten eggs and sugar. 
Add the juice of 3 lemons. Beat the whites stiff and mix all together, 
adding a wineglass of white wine. Place on ice until set. 

MRS. L. N. PLECHNER. 

Cake Pudding. 

Two cups stale cake crumbs, 1 dozen macaroons broken into bits. 
Place in buttered pan. Put iy 2 cups milk on stove to boil. When hot 
add % cup grated chocolate, yolks of 3 or 4 eggs beaten with % cup 
sugar, vanilla to taste. Let come to boiling point and remove from 
fire. Pour over crumbs in baking dish, and bake about y 2 an hour. 
Spread with strawberry or raspberry jam. Beat whites of eggs very 
stiff and add 4 tablespoons of sugar and vanilla to taste. Put on top of 
pudding and brown slightly in oven. Serve cold with whipped cream 
flavored with brandy. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One cup chocolate, 1 cup cracker crumbs mixed with a little hot 
water or milk, 3 eggs beaten separately, 4 tablespoons sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon each allspice, cinnamon and cloves, y 2 teaspoon soda, vanilla; 
add beaten whites last. Boil for iy 2 hours. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

MRS. J. V. GRUNBAUM. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding. 

y 2 pound grated chocolate boiled with 1 cup milk, then cool. Yolks 
of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoons sugar; beat well together and add 3 table- 
spoons cracker meal, pinch salt, vanilla. Mix all together with the 
chocolate, and last add the stiffly beaten whites. Put in a steaming 
form and steam for 3 hours. Serve with whipped cream. Pudding to 
be served while warm. MRS. GEO. W. KIRSKE. 



ELIANCE^SE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PUDDINGS - 'WC 103 



Bird's Nest Pudding. 
Pare enough apples to fill bottom of greased pudding dish. Cut 
round piece off top of each apple for a cover. Remove core. Scrape 
out the inside, put in a dish' with raisins, almonds, sugar and cinna- 
mon. Fill this into apples and cover. Soak 3 matzos in water; when 
soft squeeze dry. Beat the yolks of 9 eggs with 1 cupful sugar, whites 
to a froth; 1 lemon, 2 tablespoons wine. Mix this with matzos and 
pour over apples. Bake y 2 hour in hot oven. Serve with wine sauce 
if desired. MRS. S. ROSENBERG. 

Plain Chocolate Pudding. 

Put on to boil in double boiler, 1 pint milk with pinch of salt, a 
small piece of butter and % cup grated chocolate. Before it starts to 
boil add 1 beaten egg. Now blend 1 tablespoon of corn starch in a 
little milk and stir into pudding until it thickens. Sugar to taste and 
season with vanilla. Strain and put into individual dessert dishes. 
When cold add whipped cream. This is also a dainty dessert without 
the chocolate. MRS. A. L. JAFFE. 

Chocolate Pudding No. 1. 

Melt 2 bars of German sweet chocolate with enough water to 
cover. Add 4 tablespoons sugar. Take off fire and cool. Add yolks 
of 4 eggs, one by one, and lastly the whites beaten stiff. Line bottom 
and sides of pudding dish with lady fingers, pour in the mixture, put 
lady fingers on top and let set for 12 hours. When ready to serve turn 
out of pudding dish and put whipped cream on top. 

MRS. J. H. HILLER. 

Chocolate Pudding No. 2. 

Dissolve 1 package gelatine in 2 cups cold milk and let stand y 2 
hour. Then boil with 1 cup chocolate until thick. Beat whites of 5 
eggs separately, mix yolks with 1 cup sugar and beat to a cream. Mix 
chocolate mixture with yolks and sugar, and then with whites of eggs. 
Serve in glass dish with beaten pastry cream. 

MRS. I. ROSENTHAL. 
Chocolate Pudding No. 3. 

Boil 1 pint of milk with 4 sticks of sweet chocolate grated. Stir in 
1 cup of stale cake crumbs or zweibach grated till quite thick. When 
cold stir in yolks of 6 eggs, 1 cup sugar and the beaten whites of eggs. 
Flavor with vanilla. Boil or steam in mold 1 hour. Serve hot with 
whipped cream sweetened a little and flavored with vanilla. 

MRS. L. R. PLECHNER. 
Macaroon Dessert. ,, 

Six eggs, iy 2 water glasses sherry, iy 2 cups sugar, y± box gelatine 
(granulated), y 2 pound macaroons, 10 cents crystalized cherries. Beat 
the yolks with sugar, cook with wine in double boiler until thick, add 
gelatine which has been dissolved in a little cold water. Take off fire, 
beat until cold; then add beaten whites and put layers into individual 
glasses with macaroons and cherries. Then put on top of each, char- 
lotte russe and a cherry. MRS. E. A. WILZIN. 

G-hirardelli's Ground Chocolate has "been used by every woman who 
g-ave a recipe for this hook. 



104 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Macaroon Pudding. 
15 cents macaroons, 15 cents almonds, both rolled fine; a few 
canned cherries chopped fine, yolks of 3 eggs. Beat yolks with 1 cup 
sugar, add 1 pint cream beaten stiff, vanilla to flavor, y 2 package 
Knox's gelatine dissolved, and last the beaten whites. Stir well and 
mould. MRS. MAX SCHUBACH. 

Macaroon Pudding No. 2. 
Yolks of 4 eggs beaten well with 1 cup sugar, 1-3 box gelatine 
soaked in 1 pint of milk; then add well beaten whites of 4 eggs, 2 table- 
spoons brandy. Add to yolks, beat well together. Boil 5 minutes until 
mixture thickens. Line a mold with macaroons, pour mixture over 
them. Serve with whipped cream. MRS. MOSE LEWIS. 

Strawberry Macaroon Pudding. 
iy 2 cups water with a few whole cloves and a cinnamon bark. Let 
cook a few minutes. While it cooks beat the yolks of 6 eggs and 1 
cup sugar. Add the water from the spices and sherry to taste. Return 
to the fire with a pinch of salt and stir until cnick. Cook enough 
sugar and water to make y 2 a cup of syrup. Add sherry and boil a few 
minutes. Dip each macaroon in this syrup and form a pyramid of the 
cakes and strawberries alternately. An hour before using, pour the cold 
custard over the pyramid, then the 6 whites beaten stiff with powdered 
sugar sifted lightly in, and a pinch of salt. Place in oven a few min- 
utes to tip the meringue with color, return to the refrigerator and 
serve cold. MRS. S. SICHEL, Portland. 

Carrot Pudding. 
One cup grated carrots, 2 cups chopped raisins, 1 cup sugar, 1 
grated potato large size, 2 eggs beaten, butter the size of an egg, 1 
wineglassful of sherry, y 2 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, y 2 tea- 
spoonful of allspice, % teaspoonful of cloves, y 2 teaspoonful of soda, 2 
cupfuls of flour. Stir the soda in with the flour dry. Mix all together 
and steam 3 hours and serve with hard sauce. 

MRS. M. M. FREDRICK. 

Mock Plum Pudding. 
One cup grated carrots, 1 cup grated potatoes, 1 cup brown sugar, 
1 cup raisins, 1 cup suet, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 
water, 1 large teaspoon salt, 1 cup currants. Steam four hours. Nice 
with lemon sauce made of 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, juice of 1 lemon, 
a little corn starch to thicken. FLORENCE BARASH. 

Steamed Coffee Pudding. 
One quart bread crumbs, 3 eggs, 1 cup coffee, 1 cup raisins, 1 
cup currants, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, spices to taste. 
Steam 1 hour. MRS. S. FRIEDENTHAL. 



RELIANCE'S? 

NATIONAL GROCERY GO. 



PUDDINGS 105 



Simple Plum Pudding. 

Take 5 slices of white bread, soak in milk, squeeze out. Then 
take 1 cup of mixed chopped raisins, almonds and citron, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 3 eggs, the whites beaten separately (which add last) ; 1 large 
teaspoon yeast powder, pinch salt. Boil in pudding form about iy 2 
hours, greasing form well. Serve with lemon sauce. 

MRS. J. KOLEMAN. 
Plum Pudding. 

Half pound raisins, y 2 pound currants, % pound citron, y 2 
pound sugar, y 2 pound bread crumbs, y 2 pound suet, % ounce powdered 
almonds, 2 apples chopped, grated rind of lemon. Prepare fruit day 
before. Pour wineglass brandy over it. Next day add suet, bread 
crumbs, salt, cloves, 4 eggs. Mix well. Butter mold and boil from 3 
to 4 hours. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Old English Plum Pudding. 
Suet chopped fine, 6 ounces; Malaga raisins, stoned, 6 ounces; 
currants, nicely washed and picked, 8 ounces; bread crumbs, 3 ounces; 
flour, 3 ounces; eggs, 3; sixth of a nutmeg, small blade of mace, same 
quantity of cinnamon pounded as fine as possible, y 2 teaspoon of salt, 
y 2 a pint of milk, or rather less; sugar, 4 ounces, to which may be 
added candied lemon, 1 ounce; citron, y 2 ounce. Beat the eggs and 
spices well together, mix the milk with them by degrees, then the 
rest of the ingredients. Dip a fine close linen cloth into boiling water 
and put it in a hair sieve. Flour it a little, pour in the mixture, and 
tie it up close. Put it into a saucepan containing 6 quarts of boiling 
water. Keep a kettle of boiling water alongside of it, and fill up your 
pot as it wastes. Be sure to keep it boiling 6 hours at least. 

MRS. HENRY GRUNBAUM. 

Bread Pudding. 

Soak 2y 2 teacups of bread crumbs or stale cake in a quart of sweet 
milk for half an hour. Then mash fine. Beat me yolks of 4 eggs 
with a scant cup of granulated sugar. Add the grated peel of a 
lemon, 1 teaspoon of grated nutmeg and the beaten whites. 

MRS. FRANK LOEB. 

Bread Pudding No. 2. 

Four slices stale bread soaked in water and squeezed dry, 1 cup 
sugar stirred with yolks of 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon 
cloves, % teaspoon allspice, y 2 cup currants and y 2 cup citron, y 2 cup 
chopped raisins, pinch of nutmeg, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Last 
add stale bread and whites of eggs. Steam 2y 2 hours. 

MRS. A. KAUFMAN. 

Bread Pudding No. 3. 

One cup chopped suet, 2 cups bread crumbs, 2 cups stoned dates, 
1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
cloves, cinnamon, sherry wine enough to mix well. Boil 4 hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Keep a case of Independent Beer in the house, and you need never 
dread an unexpected gmest. It's always ready to be served. 



106 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 




macking Good Syrup 



and a rich, creamy maple flavor 
in your cakes, pies puddings, 
etc., if you use 



Crescent ^lapeline" 



2 oz. bottles 35c — enough to 
make two gallons of the most 
delicious syrup you've ever 
tasted. No cooking— no bother 
—just add granulated sugar and 
hot water. Cool and serve 

It's THE Flavoring of To Day 

Ask Your Grocer 



USE 

MADE IN SEATTLE 

BY 

Pacific Coast Biscuit Co, 



MERCHANTS PRINTING CO.. INC., SEATTLE 



PUDDING SAUCES 107 



Pudding Sauces 

For sauces use brown or powdered sugar. 
For sauces, do not boil after butter is added. 

Wine, brandy, grape juice or any fresh or bottled fruit juice can 
be used to flavor sauces. 

Hard Sauce. 
One cup sugar, quarter cup butter, creamed together until white 
and foamy. Add whites of 2 eggs beaten to a froth, and one-third of 
a wine glass of brandy. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Jelly Sauce. 
Half glass jelly dissolved in half glass hot water, sugar to taste, 
juice of half lemon, a little rose water, half a teaspoon corn starch dis- 
solved in cold water. Boil a few minutes and then strain and let cool. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Chandeau Sauce. 
Take a cup of white wine and about half a cup of water and set 
it over the fire in a double kettle. That is, set the vessel that contains 
the wine in another vessel to prevent burning. Add grated peel of 
a lemon and a teaspoonful of potato flour wet with cold water; add 
yelks of 4 eggs and stir constantly until so thick that it coats the 
spoon. Serve immediately or it will get thin again. 

Jelly Sauce. 
One glass jelly dissolved in one cup hot water, put in saucepan 
and thicken with one teaspoon corn starch dissolved in little cold water. 
Add juice of one lemon and sugar as needed, also any desired extract 
to flavor. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Strawberry Sauce. 
One cup sugar and one-third cup butter creamed, whites of two 
eggs beaten, and one cup ripe crushed strawberries. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Vanilla Sauce. 
Two cups boiling milk, iy 2 teaspoons corn starch dissolved in 
cold milk and added to milk; mix yolks of 2 eggs with half cup sugar, 
add little salt and vanilla to taste. Add all to boiling milk, stirring 
until it comes to the boiling point. Remove from fire, and when cool 
add the well-beaten whites of 2 eggs. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Vanilla Sauce No. 2. 

Two cups of milk, 4 eggs, iy 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, 3 drops of vanilla extract, quarter of a teaspoon of corn starch. 
Beat all together, boil like white wine sauce. 

MRS. S. FRAUENTHAL. 

For your next party g-et some appropriate favors from Haynes, 813 
Second Ave. 



108 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Chocolate Sauce. 
Melt one cake Baker's chocolate over tea kettle, add to it half cup 
sugar, half cup milk, piece of butter size of a walnut, a little vanilla; 
boil all together few minutes. Then add small glass of brandy. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

White Wine Sauce. 
One and a half cups of wine, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, the 
yolks of five eggs; use a double boiler. Beat wine, eggs and sugar to- 
gether, then put into boiler, stirring constantly until it thickens. 

MRS. S. FRAUENTHAL. 

Wine Sauce. 
Take a cupful of white wine, half a cup of water, a few slices of 
lemon, a little cinnamon and sweeten to taste and boil. Then wet a 
teaspoonful of corn starch or potato flour and add, stirring constantly. 
Beat up the yolks of four eggs and add the boiling wine gradually to 
the beaten egg. Return to the kettle, stirring constantly, then add 
part of the beaten whites of the eggs, and put the remainder on top 
of the sauce, sweetening the whites also. 

MRS. E. L. ALLENBERG. 

Pineapple Sauce. 
One cup grated pineapple (canned), liquor from one-pint bottle of 
Maraschino cherries. Put on to boil with two tablespoons water; add a 
little sugar if desired and one teaspoon corn starch dissolved in two 
tablespoons cold water. Boil a couple of minutes and let cool. 

MRS. S. ARONSOX. 



.LIHIlljL VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PIES 109 



Pies 



The quicker puff paste is made the lighter. The shortening 
should be ice cold, and the water ice water. The hands should be 
cool, and the pastry board of hardwood or marble. If puff paste is 
allowed to stand in ice-box 24 hours the quality will be improved. A 
brisk oven is needed for all pastry. If a piece of white paper be left 
in an oven for five minutes its color will show the temperature of 
the oven. Wash over the top of pie crust with a glaze made of milk 
and sugar. In making fruit pies, where the fruit is very juicy, a little 
flour will help absorb some of the juice. A little of the white of an 
egg brushed over the lower crust will prevent the crust from becom- 
ing soggy. Do not sprinkle with sugar until fruit is placed in the 
crust, as sugar sets the juices free. Make air-holes in all top crusts, so 
that the air may escape. Meringues for the top of pies are made in 
the proportion of a tablespoonful of sugar to the white of 1 egg. Never 
fill pies until just before putting them in oven. Before putting on 
top crust wet the rim of the lower, so that the pie will not burst. 
Remove pies at once from the tins, or they will become soggy. A few 
white bread crumbs sprinkled on the crust of cheese and fruit pies 
prevent the juices running out. 

Puff Paste. 

One cupful butter well worked out with a knife, so that all water 
is eliminated. Prepare butter the day before it is to be used, and 
put on ice; 1 cup flour mixed with a little water to a consistency that 
it can be rolled out. Place the whole piece of butter in the center, fold 
the dough over it and roll out three times. It is then put on ice for 20 
minutes, rolled out twice again, and then cut out with two cutters, one 
without and one with a hole, the open space to be filled with oysters, 
sweetbreads and mushrooms or jelly. Bake in a moderate oven 
before filling. MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Apple Custard Pie. 

Slice apples thin, half fill your plates, and pour over them a cus- 
tard-made of 4 eggs and 2 cupfuls of milk, sweetened to taste. 

Apple Tart. 

Prepare an ordinary pie crust. Then stew apples like sauce. 
When cooked beat in the yolks of 2 eggs, y 2 cupful sugar and cinna- 
mon to taste. When cold add the white of eggs beaten stiff; pour in 
crust. Whip a cupful of whipping cream real stiff, then grate some 
cheese in cream and spread on apple filling in crust. 
, MRS. H. W. FRIEDLANDER. 

Fine for flavoring- cakes and pies — Mapleine. 2 oz. bottle, 35c. 



110 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Fancy Apple Pie. 

One cupful strained stewed apples, 1 cupful sugar, 1 cupful milk, 
14 cupful butter, 2 eggs well beaten, nutmeg. Bake with under crust 
only. 

Apple Pie. 
Line deep pie pan with rich puff paste, fill with sliced apples, 
strew with sugar, cinnamon, juice of y 2 lemon, bits of butter. Cover 
with crust and wet top with 2 tablespoonfuls milk. Then shake sugar 
over. Bake in rather a slow oven about 45 minutes. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Banana Pie. 
One cupful milk, y 2 cupful sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful 
cornstarch. Boil till thick. Flavor with vanilla. Slice 2 bananas on 
the baked crust and pour the custard on top. Beat the whites stiff 
and add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread on top and brown. 

IONA BARASH. 
Chocolate Pie. 
Bake under crust. Take \y 2 cupfuls milk, boil and thicken with 
iy 2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch dissolved in cold milk, 1-3 cupful choco- 
late, small piece of butter, yolks of 3 eggs beaten with 14 cupful of 
sugar. Let come to a boil and put into crust. Beat whites of 3 eggs 
very stiff with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and vanilla flavor. Put on pie 
and brown slightly in oven. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Cake Pie. 
Line a deep pie pan with rich puff paste, spread thickly with any 
kind of jam, pour over a sponge cake batter and bake in moderately 
hot oven. Make white icing. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Cherry Pie. 

Line pie plate with rich pie crust. Fill half full with ripe stoned 
cherries, sprinkle y 2 cupful sugar, a tablespoonful sifted flour and dot 
bits of butter over that. Cover with upper crust and bake. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Cheese Pie. 

Crust — Cream y 2 cupful sugar, iy 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add 1 egg, 
% teaspoonful baking powder, flavoring, mix firm enough to roll. 
Pie — Take 1 pound cottage cheese, cream through sieve, add 1 cupful 
sugar, 1 tablespoonful flour, yolks of 4 eggs, y 2 pint cream (whipping 
cream), not beaten, and the stiffly beaten whites last, and vanilla. 
Bake about an hour. MRS. SAM BROWN. 

Custard Pie. 

Line pan with rich crust. Mix 3 eggs well beaten with 1 pint milk, 
little salt, sugar, vanilla and nutmeg to taste, and pour over crust. 
Moderate oven. MRS. S. ARONSON. 



:liance c vSE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PIES 111 



Cocoanut-Custard Pie. 

Put 2 eggs in basin, beat them with 2 cupfuls of milk and 4 ounces 
sugar. Add 1 cupful grated cocoanut and y 2 teaspoonful extract of 
lemon. Put mixture into puff paste and bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 
Lemon Pie. 

Take 8 eggs. Stir 5 yolks and 3 whole eggs with \y 2 cups sugar. 
Beat for 15 or 20 minutes. Then cook in double boiler with juice of 
4 lemons. Only heat through well. Then add the other 5 whites 
stiffly beaten. Bake in spring form with rich crust underneath. Bake 
about 15 minutes. MRS. GEORGE W. KIRSKE. 

Lemon Pie. 
Line pie pan with rich puff paste and fill with following mix- 
ture: % cupful butter creamed with % cupful sugar, iy 2 lemons 
juice and grated rind, yolks of 3 eggs, 2 apples grated. Bake about 
30 or 40 minutes in moderate oven. When cold beat whites and add 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar and little lemon juice. Place on pie and brown 
in oven slightly. Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Lemon Pie. 
Grate 1 lemon, add 1 cupful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
yolks of 2 eggs. Stir well and add 1 cupful of boiling water. Boil until 
thickened and pour into crust that has been prepared. Beat whites 
to a stiff froth, add 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and lemon flavoring. 
Let it brown in oven. MRS. E. J. SPEAR. 

Pumpkin Pie. 
One cupful steamed and strained pumpkin, % cupful sugar, 
y 2 teaspoonful salt, % teaspoonful cinnamon, nutmeg and ginger, 
grated rind of y 2 lemon, a little vanilla and milk to moisten. Bake 
until firm in a tin lined with pastry. 

German Strawberry Tart. 
Make a rich crust from 2 cupfuls flour, y 2 teaspoonful baking 
powder, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 3 tablespoonful of butter, 1 egg, y 2 
cupful milk. First mix well the butter and sugar, followed by the rest 
of ingredients. Beat the yolk and white separately. Put this in but- 
tered pie plate evenly, and bake in a quick oven until a light brown. 
Filling: Wash and cut 1 box of large strawberries, then mix with 1 
cup powdered sugar. Put in baked crust and cover with whipped 
cream that has been flavored to taste. 

Orange Pie. 
Grate rind of 1 large orange and use juice of 2. Mix a large cupful 
of sugar and heaping tablespoonful flour. Add to this well beaten 
yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonful melted butter. Put this into your pie 
pan lined with pie paste and bake in quick oven until looks like cus- 
tard. Put beaten whites sweetened with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar on 
top and return to oven to brown. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

These recipes will never fail on the Great Majestic Rang-e. 



112 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Huckleberry Pie. 
Bake under crust first. Wash and pick huckleberries. Cook with 
very little water and sugar and thicken slightly with flour. Pour over 
crust and put upper crust on and wash over with milk and sugar. 
Bake until top crust is brown. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Plum Pie. 

Select large plums. About 15 plums. Cut them in halves, remove 
the kernels and dip each half in flour. Line your pie tin with a rich 
paste and lay in the plums close together and sprinkle thickly with a 
whole cup of sugar. Sift powdered sugar on top. 

MRS. ELLIS H. GROSS. 
Rhubarb Pie. 
Chop thin enough rhubarb to make a good pint. Then mix to- 
gether iy 2 cupfuls sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 beaten eggs and a 
flight grating of lemon peel. Stir with chopped rhubarb. Line pie 
plate with rich pie crust. Add rhubarb mixture. Cover with an 
upper crust and bake in a moderately quick oven at first and then 
reduce heat. MRS. J. S. COHEN. 

Walnut Pie. 
Line pie pan with rich puff paste, and fill with following mixture: 
1-3 cupful butter and % cupful sugar well creamed. Add yolks of 4 
eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls milk, % cupful wal- 
nuts chopped very fine. Bake about y 2 hour. Whites of eggs with 
sugar and vanilla for mermgue on top of pie. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Pineapple Pie. 
One can grated pineapple, y 2 cupful sugar, 1 cupful cream or rich 
milk, yolks of 3 eggs beaten, 2 tablespoonful of butter. Cook in double 
boiler and bake as lemon pie with one crust. Meringue with the whites 
of the eggs, and when cold add a layer of whipped cream and garnish 
with candied cherries and blanched almonds. Makes two pies. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Mince Meat. 
Chop fine 3 pounds of best boiled meat. Scrape fine 1 pound of 
suet that will melt easily. Chop 4 pounds of best tart apples, 2 pounds 
of soft seeded raisins, cut in half, 2 pounds of cleaned currants, 1 
pound of Corsican citron, 2 pounds of brown sugar, 1 even tablespoon- 
ful of salt, y 2 teaspoonful of ground allspice and cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of nutmeg, 3 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 quart of sherry or white 
wine, 1 quart of boiled cider. Boil all well together. When nearly 
cold add 1 pint of good brandy or whiskey. Mix all well together. 
This quantity will make 2 gallons. Fill in glass fruit jars. 

MARIA WILZINSKI. 



:liance c v a ss? 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PIES 



113 



Mince Meat. 

Requires no cooking. 1 cupful chopped meat, 3 cupfuls chopped 
apples, 1 cupful chopped raisins, 1 cupful currants, % cupful seedless 
raisins, y 2 cupful butter or dripping, 2 cupfuls brown sugar, 1 cupful 
grape juice or coffee, 1 cupful boiling water or coffee, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, y 3 teaspoonful cloves. Let it stand in tightly covered jar 
24 hours before using. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 



GOLD SHI ELD COFFEE 
GOLD SHIELD TEA 



ALWAV5 GOOD 
ALL GROCERS 



114 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



IT'S NOT ALL IN THE RECIPE 
OR THE BAKING 

If you use poor baking powder you can' t get good results. 

Crescent Egg Phosphate 

Baking Powder 

IS A GUARANTEE of success in itself. It's abso- 
lutely pure, wholesome and nutritious and pro- 
duces 3 x e per cent, more leavening power than any 
other powder on the market. 

It guarantees you better, lighter Pastry or 
your money back. 

2 5 Cents Full Pound 





Main 1197 
Ind. 387 



FIRE 
PROOF 

BURGLAR 
PROOF 



The Pacific Safety 
Deposit Company 

Erickson Building 
First and University 

Safety Deposit Boxes and Storage 
Rooms at Reasonable Rates. Call 
and Examine Our Eledlrical System 



L. T. WIRSTAD, Manager 



STORES 

New 
Store 

912 Second Ave. 



Carry exclusive line of 
CONFECTIONERY 
and French Pastry 
POPULAR Luncheon 
served in the unique and 
beautiful Egyptian room 



IERCHANTS PRATING CO , INC. SEATTLE 



FROZEN DESSERTS 115 



Frozen Desserts 



In heating milk for custards always use a double boiler. The rule 
for custards is 4 eggs to a quart of milk and a tablespoonful of sugar 
for each egg. Creams and custards that are to be frozen require an 
additional amount of sugar. When mixing eggs and hot milk stir in 
a small quantity slowly at first, so that the eggs may not curdle. A 
very moderate degree of heat must be employed for all sauces, creams 
and custards made of the yolks of eggs. Cream to be whipped should 
be put on ice some time before, as it whips more easily when 
very cold. Coffee ice cream should be thickened with corn starch. 
The flavoring for almond cream is made by pounding the kernels to 
a paste with rose water. For cocoanut cream use freshly grated cocoa- 
nut and add to cream, and sugar just before freezing. The milk 
should not be heated for pineapple, strawberry or raspberry cream. 
Berry flavors are best made by allowing berries to stand awhile well 
sprinkled with sugar, mashing and straining the juice. Canned ber- 
ries may be used in the same way. Water ices are made from fruit 
juices mixed with water sweetened and frozen like ice cream. In 
making them, mix well before freezing or the sugar will sink to the 
bottom. It is best to make a syrup of sugar and water, and when 
cold add the fruit juice. Cream may be frozen without a patent 
freezer by using a tightly covered tin can and a wooden pail, scraping 
the sides and bottom of the can with a wooden spoon as the contents 
freeze. If cream does not whip readily, add a few drops of lemon 
juice. If cream is slightly sour, add a pinch of soda. 

Tri-Color Frozen Pudding. 

One pint cream whipped stiff and sweetened; divide in three parts. 
Flavor one with strawberry jam and add a couple of drops of Price's 
fruit coloring to make pink. Put chocolate in one part, and flavor 
the white or third part with vanilla. Wet pudding mold. Put in the 
chocolate cream, on top of which put a few dice shaped pieces of 
sponge cake, on each of which a drop of rum has been put, a few 
Maraschino cherries; then the vanilla cream with cake and cherries 
on top, and lastly the pink. Close mold and pack in ice three hours. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 



Have, you noticed the superiority of the taste of Independent Beer 
ahove all others? 



116 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Tea Frappe. 
Four teaspoonfuls tea, 1 pint boiling water, 1 cup sugar, rind and 
juice of 3 oranges, juice of 2 lemons, 1 can pineapple chopped fine. 
Steep tea five minutes in boiling water; strain; boil sugar and water 
together and orange rind for five minutes. Strain. Add to the tea, add 
fruit and juice. Freeze like half melted snow. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Lemon Ice. 

For 1 gallon take 5 eggs, 3 cupfuls sugar, 10 lemons, grated rind 
of 3 lemons, 4 cups water. Beat eggs until well creamed. Add sugar. 
Then add juice of lemons and rind and water. Freeze until stiff. 

MRS. MANNIE COHEN. 

Frozen Pudding. 
One cupful sugar, 1 cupful water. Boil until it threads. Add to 
whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Fold in 1 pint of whipped cream. Flavor 
with crushed fruits. Pack in ice and let stand for a few hours. 

MRS. I. MONHEIMER. 

Frozen Peaches and Cream. 

Whip 1 quart cream as stiff as possible. Take ripe peaches and 
mash until you have about 1 pint of pulp. Sweeten well with pow- 
dered sugar. Add to the cream, mixing well, but with as little beating 
as possible. Put in a freezer or in a covered mold and pack well within. 
If used at night it should be put to freeze at noon. After the first 
hour stir well, loosening all that has. frozen and stuck to the sides, 
and repeat at end of second and third hours. Then leave until ready 
to serve. MRS. JULIUS C. LANG. 

Pineapple Mousse. 
One teaspoonful granulated gelatine, y± cupful cold water, 1 cup- 
ful pineapple syrup, 2 tablespoons of pulp, 1 cupful sugar, 1 quart of 
cream. Heat 1 can grated pineapple; drain. To 1 cupful syrup add gela- 
tine soaked in cold water, lemon juice and sugar. Strain, and cool. 
As mixture thickens, fold in whip from cream. Mould, pack in ice 
and salt and let stand 4 hours. RENA HERMAN. 

Mousse. 
One quart cream, 1 pound white sugar, the whites of 6 eggs. Fla- 
vor with vanilla or wine. Whip the cream and sugar till all the cream 
is a stiff mass. Then beat the whites very stiff and add to it flavor 
to taste. This makes 3 quarts. Pack in freezer and let stand from 
two to four hours. In warm weather two hours will be sufficient. 
Allow 2 pounds salt to 6 pounds of ice. Do not churn. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 



-L-IMnlV^C VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. ^ , 



FROZEN DESSERTS 117 



Rum Pudding. 

Beat yolks 2 eggs with y 2 cupful sugar until light; then add 
stiffly beaten whites. Flavor with 1 tablespoonful rum. Whip 1 pint 
cream very stiff; stir into beaten eggs. Line a melon mold with lady 
fingers, split in half. Then put a layer of whipped cream over. Chop 
y 2 pound marron glace fine and sprinkle some over cream. Put an- 
other layer of lady fingers, cream and marrons, and so on until mold 
is filled. Close tightly and pack in rock salt and ice from three to 
four hours. If desired, whipped cream, flavored with a little rum, can 
be put around pudding when it is served. 

MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 

Cold Pudding. 

Mix y 2 pound of stale macaroons grated, % cupful sugar, add 1 
pint stiffly beaten cream, stirring lightly. Flavor with Maraschino 
cherries and liquid. Pack in ice and salt. Freeze 4 hours. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 
Roman Sherbet. 
Juice of 3 lemons and 2 oranges, 2 pints water boiled with 1 cup 
£ugar for a few minutes; 1-3 of a package gelatine dissolved in cold 
water and added to -the boiling water, whites of 2 eggs well beaten, 1 
cup of strong green tea, small glass of rum, and if desired a large 
glass of champagne. Freeze several hours. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Sherbet Adele. 
Three pints of water, 3 cupfuls of granulated sugar, a little orange 
and lemon peel. Boil to gether ten minutes, strain and set aside 
to cool. When cold add juice of 8 oranges, 3 lemons, 1 pint of claret 
and 1 teaspoonful of Eau de Fleurs d'Orange, the beaten whites of 
two eggs. Put in freezer and freeze. 

MRS. L. A. MORGANSTERN, New York City. 

Tortoni Frozen Pudding. 

Six eggs, 1 cupful powdered sugar, y 2 cupful grated macaroons, 1 
pint cream, 1 dessertspoonful vanilla. With the yolks beat sugar, 
add macaroons, add beaten cream, whites beaten stiff. Mix all to- 
gether lightly and add vanilla. Pack in salt and ice for two hours. 

MRS. E. MORGANSTERN 
Frozen Maple Cream. 
One cup maple syrup and the yolks of 4 eggs boiled in a double 
boiler for 10 or 15 minutes. Take off and cool. Beat up 1 pint cream 
and add the well beaten whites of the eggs. Then add the boiled cus- 
tard, jflace in a pudding form, which has to be packed in ice and 
salt for five or six hours MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 

Coffee Frappe. 
Four cupfuls freshly made coffee, scant cupful sugar. Add to hot 
coffee 1 cupful cream. Strain coffee and freeze soft. Put 1 teaspoon- 
ful whipped cream on top of each glass when serving. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 

Tor quick service, eleg-ant rooms and the best cafe, stop at the Butler 
Hotel while in Seattle. 



118 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Coffee Frappe. 

One cup of black strong coffee; boil with 1 cupful sugar. Then 
add yolks of 3 eggs or more if necessary until thick. Let cool. Have 
ready 1 pint of heavy cream. Beat to charlotte russe. Add 15 cents 
worth burnt almonds rolled fine. Then mix with above and pack in 
a bucket with ice and rock salt for three hours. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Frozen Chocolate Pudding. 
One quart milk, yolks of 6 eggs, piece of chocolate the size of an 
egg melted, y 2 dozen macaroons and y 2 cupful raisins soaked in sherry. 
Sweeten to taste. Put milk in double boiler, and when nearly boiling 
add the yolks and stir until thick. Then break in the macaroons, add 
raisins and wine. Place all in mold and pack with ice. Whipped 
cream can be served with it. LOTTIE LEWIS, Pocatello. 

Frozen Chocolate. 
Half pound chocolate dissolved in 1 cupful of milk and a little 
vanilla, and y 2 cupful sugar. When all is melted, add the well beaten 
yolks of 5 eggs, and beat this mixture into 1 quart whipped cream. 
Pack in mold and let stand three or four hoiirs„ 

MRS. MITCHELL HARRIS, Olympia. 

Blum's Frozen Pudding. 
Beat 1 quart charlotte russe cream stiff. Flavor with vanilla. Add 
1 large cup each of grated walnuts, pecans and almonds. Sweeten to 
taste. Put into pudding mold and pack well in ice. Serve with choco- 
late sauce poured over it. MRS. LEO SCHWABACHER. 

Apple Sherbet. 
Boil the apples, pared and cored in sufficient water to float them, 
until they are reduced to a fine pulp. Strain them, and to half a pint 
of water add half pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and if necessary 
a little water. When cold freeze as ice cream. 

MRS. A. L. BARMON. 
Plumbaire. 
Make rich custard. When cold flavor with wine. Put this in 
freezer and when half frozen add chopped citron, brandied fruits, 
blanched almonds, macaroons crumbled and marrons. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 
Two dozen chestnuts, y 2 pound sugar, y 2 pint cream, y 2 glass 
Maraschino, 1 ounce each candied fruit, raisins, citron, 3 eggs, 8 grated 
macaroons. Mix and freeze. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 



iUANCESSKS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



119 



Frozen Plum Pudding. 
Make a rich chocolate custard. Add to it y 2 cupful seedless rai- 
sins chopped, y 2 cupful currants, V 2 cupful chopped walnuts, 14 cupful 
citron cut fine, % cupful candied cherries cut fine, some candied 
orange peel cut into bits, all this fruit previously soaked two hours in 
sherry wine. Add also 1 glass brandy, little cinnamon and vanilla. 
Freeze and serve with whipped cream flavored with rum. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Frozen Pudding. 
One pint whipping cream. Add beaten whites of 3 eggs, powdered 
sugar to taste, vanilla. Put some macaroons in oven to get crisp; 
pound and add also some nuts, candied cherries and pineapple cut in 
pieces. Freeze in baking powder cans three hours. Put cloth on, top 
of cans. Set cans in large pan and pack with rock salt and ice. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Frozen Nut Pudding. 
One cup of chopped walnuts or hazel nuts, 1 pint of table cream, 
y 2 cup of sugar. Boil y^ cupful of watei with the sugar until it thick- 
ens somewhat. Add the yolks of 4 eggs to the sugar gradually, then 
the beaten whites, vanilla extract, nuts and cream. Place in 1 pound 
baking powder cans, close tight, pack in chopped ice and coarse salt for 
3y 2 hours. MRS. M WILZINSKI. 



GOLD SHIELD COFFEE 
GOLD SHIELD TEA 



ALWAYSGOOD 
ALL G ROGERS 



120 ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



WE c^VlAKE cA SPECIALTY 

if LADIES' and GENT'S FINE 14 KARAT 
JEWELRY, and always carry an up-to-date LINE 
^NOVELTIES. 

[DIAMONDS 

Our stock gf fine Diamonds, Emeralds, Rubies and 
Pearls is one of the largest in the city and specially 
priced. 

STERLING SILVER 

Have you ever been into our store to see the fine 
selection of Hollow-ware and Flatware we carry? 
This Line is most complete. 

The same honest price for honest goods to every one. 

L. W. SUTERo, Jeweler, Silversmith, £& Optician 
715 First cA venue 



<^A checking account for personal and household 
expenses is a great convenience to a woman. Noth- 
ing contributes more to economy in the home. A 
woman can buy cheaper if she has the money. Be- 
sides, she learns the value of systematic business 
methods. 

We Pay 4 r A Interest 

On Savings 

STATE BANK 

OF SEATTLE 

On Pioneer Place, Corner First Avenue and Yesler Way. 



CANDIES 121 



Candies 



Chocolate Caramels. 

One and a half cups grated chocolate, 4 cups brown sugar, iy 2 cups 
of cold water, piece of butter size of egg, tablespoon very sharp vinegar; 
if liked, flavor with two teaspoons vanilla just before removing from 
fire. Do not stir, but shake pan very gently while cooking. Boil on 
top of stove over a brisk fire until it becomes brittle when tried in 
water. Pour into a well buttered and floured pan and check off into 
squares while soft. ELSIE BARMON. 

Chocolate Fudge. 

Take 2 cups white sugar, 1 cup milk, piece of butter size of an egg, 
4 tablespoons chocolate, and cook till it makes a soft ball in water. 
Remove from stove and add 1 cup chopped walnuts and a pinch of salt. 
Beat till stiff and pour on buttered platter. JULIET ARONSON. 

Walnut Cream Candy. 

Boil 2 cups powdered sugar mixed with half cup water and half 
cup milk until a thick syrup. Pour in a dish and when cool stir until 
thick. Then add vanilla extract. Roll in little balls and on them place 
half walnut. 

Fudge Nougat. 

Boil 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk, butter size of a walnut 
and pinch of salt until they form a soft ball in cold water. Add juice 
of half an orange. Take from stove and beat few minutes. Then add 1 
cup chopped figs, raisins and nuts. Pour into buttered pan, and when 
cool cut into squares. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Double Fudge. 

Boil 2 cups granulated sugar, y 2 cup milk, 2 squares chocolate, 1 
teaspoon butter until it forms a soft ball when dropped into cold wa- 
ter. Beat until cold and pour into buttered pan. Then boil 2 cups 
brown sugar, 1 cup milk until it will form a soft ball when dropped 
into cold water; add 1 teaspoon butter, 1 cup nut meat, chopped fine, 
half teaspoon vanilla; beat until creamy and turn over other fudge. 
When cool mark into squares. JULIET ARONSON. 

Marshmallow Fudge. 
Cook 3 cups brown sugar, 1 cup cream and a pinch of salt until it 
forms a soft ball in cold water. Stir constantly while cooking. Add 
a lump of butter and a little vanilla extract before removing from the 
fire. Beat until cold and add 1 cup chopped nuts. Pour on buttered 
dish upon which marshmallows cut into halves have been spread. 
When cold mark into squares. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Albert Hansen's Jewelry Store, at the corner of First and Cherry, is 
perhaps the finest on the coast. Visit it without fail. 



122 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Marshmallow Fudge. 

Three cups of white sugar, 1 full cup of milk. Let this boil 10 
minutes and add a lump of butter and two tablespoons of chocolate. 
When this makes a soft ball in water, pour the mixture over a buttered 
platter on which small pieces of marshmallows have been spread. Cut 
in squares when cool. JULIET ARONSON. 

Marshmallows. 

Soak 1 box Knox's Gelatine in 12 tablespoons water; boil 4 cups 
sugar and 1 cup water until it threads; do not stir while boiling. Pour 
slowly into gelatine. Do not scrape pan. Beat 20 minutes, first with 
fiat wire egg beater, then with cake spoon. Dust pans with corn starch 
and powdered sugar and pour in candy. Cool two hours; cut in squares 
and roll in powdered sugar. Flavor as desired. ELSIE BARMON. 

Orange Pinoche. 

Three cups light brown sugar, butter size of egg, 1 cup milk. When 

it comes to a boil add the juice of one orange and boil until it candies. 

Remove from fire and beat until almost cold; then add cup of chopped 

nuts and grated rind of the orange. Cut in squares. CARRIE KOCH. 

Pinoche. 
Three cups brown sugar, butter size of walnut, 1 cup milk. Let 
boil until it forms ball in cold water. Add a little vanilla and cup of 
chopped nuts. Beat until cold. CARRIE KOCH. 

Peanut Candy. 

Dissolve 2 pounds sugar and 1 saltspoon cream tartar in 1 cup cold 
water; put in saucepan and boil until brittle, adding about half ounce 
butter. Shell peanuts, rub off the skin and cover a greased pan thickly 
with them and pour candy over and leave until cold. Break into 
pieces. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Peanut Brittle. 

Chop peanuts; put sugar in frying pan and heat until it becomes a 
thin, light brown syrup, stirring constantly.. Stir peanuts in quickly; 
flavor. Pour in greased plates. ELSIE BARMON. 

Velvet Molasses Candy. 
One cup molasses, 3 cups sugar, 1 cup boiling water, 3 teaspoons 
vinegar, half teaspoon cream of tartar, one-third cup butter melted, 
one-quarter teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Put first four ingre- 
dients in kettle and place over a slow fire. When boiling add cream of 
tartar. Boil until mixture becomes brittle when tried in cold water. 
Stir constantly during last -part of cooking. When nearly done add 
butter and soda. Pour into a buttered pan and pull. W T hen pulling add 
flavoring. RENA HERMAN. 



-L-IHrMlsC VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 123 



Cake 



Use only the best ingredients for cake, and have all the materials 
ready before beginning to mix them. Measure and sift the flour and 
baking powder or soda, then sift again, weigh the butter, and put 
the exact quantity of milk or cream convenient to the mixing bowl; 
weigh or measure the sugar, line the baking tins with buttered 
paper, and see that the oven is being properly heated. Raisins must 
be seeded, currants looked over, washed well, dried and floured, and 
citron cut into small pieces and floured. Butter and sugar are to be 
well creamed first, beaten yolks of eggs stirred in and all beaten; then 
add milk, flour with baking powder and lastly whites of eggs beaten 
to a froth. Stir in whites as lightly as possible; add flavoring; put 
immediately into baking pans and bake at once. Fruit floured is 
added last. Spices should be mixed with the flour to be evenly dis- 
tributed. Cakes baked in loaves require a moderate oven for the 
first 15 or 20 minutes, after which the heat may be increased. Layer 
cakes require a brisk oven. Cheese cakes require a hot oven. Ice 
the cake as soon as it is taken from the oven, using a thin broad- 
bladed knife, which dip frequently into cold water. When sour milk 
is used in a cake, always use soda, never baking powder. If soda 
and sour milk are called for, sweet milk and baking powder may 
be substituted by using 2V 2 teaspoons of baking powder to a quart 
of flour. Avoid stirring the cake after sugar and butter are creamed, 
but beat from the bottom up and over. To test a cake when baking, 
insert a broom straw, if not sticky the cake is done. Do not open 
the oven door often. A dish of water in oven will prevent scorching. 
Another way is to lay a thin sheet of tin at the bottom of the oven 
and a piece of buttered brown paper on top of cake. Don't put cake 
into cake box until perfectly cold. In making icing, all the ingredi- 
ents should be very cold. Always put a pinch of salt into the whites 
of eggs before beating. 

Time table for baking cakes: Sponge cake, % of an hour; 
pound cake, 1 hour; Fruit cake, 3 or 4 hours; cookies, from 10 to 15 
minutes; cup cakes, 30 to 40 minutes; layer cakes, 15 to 20 minutes. 

If you want courteous attention and the best value for the money, 
buy your new suit at J. Redelsheimer's, First and Col.iiwbia. 



124 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Angel Cake. 
Eleven whites of eggs; sprinkle over them a level teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar and beat until stiff; then add gradually \y 2 cups of 
fine granulated sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, and fold in lightly 1 
cup of flour which has been sifted five times. Turn in an ungreased 
pan and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. 

MRS. J. S. COHEN. 
Bund Kuchen. 
Two eggs beaten for 10 minutes with 2 cups sugar, iy 2 tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, iy 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, handful small raisins, 1 teaspoonful vanilla; bake 1 hour. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

A.-Y.-P. Cake. 
Good slice butter creamed with iy 2 cups sugar; 3 yolks eggs; 
Scald 2 tablespoons milk, put in 2 tablespoons sugar and % table- 
spoons chocolate; mix with above. Add 1% cups flour sifted 3 times, 
and 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, beaten whites and va- 
nilla. Bake in 2 sheet tins. 

Frosting. — 2 cups sugar, % cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter; boil 
until it threads, then beat and spread between layers and top. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 
Blackberry Cake. 
One-half cup butter creamed with 1 cup sugar, 4 eggs; take two 
whites out for icing; four tablespoons sour milk, with 1 teaspoon 
soda, or 4 tablespoons sweet milk, with 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
iy 2 cups flour, 1 cup blackberry jam and the stiffly beaten whites 
last; flavoring. Bake in two long pans and put icing between and on 
top. MRS. SAM BROWN. 

Almond Cake. 

One-half pound sugar, y 2 pound butter, y 2 pound of almonds, y 2 
pound flour, yolks of 2 eggs. Melt butter, add sugar, yolks; blanche 
and chop almonds, add flour. This is a stiff dough. Bake in 5 layers 
on paper spread on the back of the tin for fifteen minutes in a slow 
oven. Put jelly and custard between the layers, using the beaten 
whites for frosting. MRS. F. ROTHCHILD, Portland. 

Almond Cake. 
One scant cup butter, 1 cup sugar, % cup almonds (blanched) 
and chopped before measuring), whites of 5 eggs well beaten, \y 2 
cups flour, y 2 teaspoon baking powder. Bake in a sheet so it will 
be about two inches thick when done. Bake slowly. Ice with the 
usual icing and add to it before spreading about y± cup almonds pre- 
pared the same as for the cake. MRS. M. PRAGER. 



:liance3Ske 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 125 



Cream Almond Cake. 

The yolks of 6 eggs beaten very light with 1 cup sugar (y 2 gran- 
ulated and half confectioners') ; then add y 2 eggshell of water and 
flavor with essence of coffee; 1 cup flour sifted twice and 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder. Last of all, fold in the beaten whites of the 
eggs. Bake in 2 layers. 

Filling. — Heat y 2 pint cream, add sugar and vanilla to taste; then 
add 2 eggs beaten (before the cream boils), then stir occasionally 
until thick. Strew grated almonds over this filling. Usually make a 
plain icing for the top. 

Black Coffee Cake. 

Two cups light brown sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 6 eggs, % cup 
melted butter, 1 cup strong black coffee, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 of all- 
spice, 1 of cloves, 1 of cinnamon, 2 teaspoons grated chocolate, a 
pinch of salt, y 2 cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup seedless raisins, 1 of 
currants, 4 generous cups sifted flour and add the last thing, 1 tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in a little milk. Butter and flour pan and bake in 
slow oven nearly 1 hour. Dredge fruit with flour, so it doesn't stick 
together. MRS. MITCHELL HARRIS, Olympia. 

Almond Pound Cake. 

Mix together 1 pound butter and the same of sugar; beat separ- 
ately until perfectly light 1 dozen eggs and stir alternately into 
the sugar and butter with 1 pound of sifted flour; add two nutmegs, 
grated, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 wine glasses wine, the same of bran- 
dy, the same of rosewater; beat well and add 1 pound raisins, picked 
and stoned, rolled in flour; cut 1 pound citron not too fine, and 
lastly 1 pound blanched almonds cut down in four; beat hard and 
pour in a buttered pan and bake for 3 or 4 hours. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 
Date Torte. 

Three eggs beaten lightly with 1 cup sugar. (Do not separate 
eggs.) Add juice and rind of y 2 lemon, a little grated chocolate, 1 
tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 cup dates cut fine, 
1 cup English walnuts chopped (dredge nuts and dates), 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake 50 minutes in a well buttered pan. Serve with sweet 
whipped cream. MRS. MAURICE L. GRUNBAUM. 

French Coffee Cake. 

Scald 1 cup milk; when lukewarm add 1 yeast cake and dissolve; 
add 4 eggs, two-thirds cup butter, y 2 cup sugar, iy 2 cups flour, and 
if liked, the grated rind of a lemon. Beat well for 10 minutes. Let 
rise six hours. Place in ice-chest over night to prevent further 
rising. In the morning roll out x /4 inch thick (on a floured board), 
spread with creamed butter, fold in three layers; cut off pieces and 
form in any desired shape, and place in pans and let rise until light. 
Bake quickly, about 20 minutes, in moderate oven. Can be spread 
with icing or powdered sugar. MRS. N. DEGGINGER. 

The clear type, printing- and compiling- of this book helped the success 
of it. See the Merchants' Printing- Company, Times Building. Main 4134 
Ind. 655. 



126 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Coffee Cake. 
Six cups sifted flour, dissolve 1 yeast cake in lukewarm water. 
Make hole in flour, pour yeast in and cover over; put in 3 eggs, 1 
cup sugar and little essence of lemon and y 2 cup of butter; mix well 
with milk, enough for a stiff dough. Leave over night. Next morning 
butter your pans, spread your dough over the pan, mix the leavings 
in pot with sugar, a little flour and a trifle butter, and make streisel. 

MRS. POLITZ, Sacramento. 

Walnut White Cake. 

One-half cup butter, 1V 2 cups sugar; cream well, then add y 2 
cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 5 eggs, 
stiffly beaten. Bake in 2 layers in a quick oven. 

Filling. — x / 2 cup sugar, good piece butter, cream together, then 
add yolk of 1 egg, % cup of flour; add this to 1 cup boiling milk, V 2 
pound English walnuts rolled, and cook until thick; beat until cool, 
then spread between layers. 

Icing. — 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup water, 1 teaspoon vinegar; boil until 
stringy, then add slowly to white of 1 egg stiffly beaten. 

MRS. GEO. W. KIRSKE. 

Filled Coffee Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 3 eggs, pinch 
salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar, then add the well beaten eggs and 
rest of the ingredients. 

Filling. — Mix together 1V 2 cups brown sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 
1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, iy 2 cups chopped nuts, Cor- 
sican citron, orange marmalade and raisins; spread the batter in a 
well greased spring form, pieces of butter all over, then some of the 
filling; then the rest of the batter, more dabs of butter; then the 
remainder of the filling. Bake about 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

MRS. M. WILZINSKL 
Hazelnut Cake. 

Yolks 9 eggs beaten with 1V 2 cups sugar until thick; add juice 
and rind of 1 lemon, spices to taste, 2 large cups grated hazelnuts; 
beaten whites last. Bake % hour. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Nut Cake. 
One cup butter, 2V 2 cups powdered sugar, 5 eggs beaten separ- 
ately and the chopped meat of 1 pound of walnuts. After stirring 
butter and sugar lightly, add yolks, then nuts; also y 2 cup citron 
chopped fine; juice and rind of 1 orange, rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup milk, 
two teaspoons baking powder and Sy 2 cups of sifted flour. Bake 1 
hour. MRS. J. S. COHEN. 



ELIANCE'v'SE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 127 



Coffee Cake. 
One cup sugar, butter size of an egg, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup 
milk, 2% cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, whites of eggs 
beaten, vanilla. For top of cake: y 2 cup flour, y 2 cup sugar, small 
piece butter, little cinnamon, 5 cents walnuts or almonds, chopped. 
Melt this all in the oven, and sprinkle over top of cake before 
baking. MRS. J. GOLDSMITH. 

Ten-Minute Coffee Cake. 
One cup sugar, 2 eggs and cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, vanilla and pinch salt. Mix all well. 
Grease pan and let mixture run in. Then sprinkle top with sugar, 
cinnamon and some chopped peanuts, and bake in moderate oven. 

CARRIE KOCH. 
Nut Tart. 

(Frost this with plain icing.) 
Grate 1 package of Zwiebach, chop 1 cup walnuts, add 1 teaspoon 
each cinnamon, cloves and allspice, 2 teaspoons baking powder, grated 
rind of 1 lemon; mix all together well; 10 eggs, yolks beaten, with 

2 cups powdered sugar; beaten whites added last. 

MRS. MAX SCHUBACH. 
Mandel Torte. 
Eight eggs, beat yolks and whites separately; 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
whole almonds grated, 4 tablespoons Matzo flour, juice and skin 
(grated) of orange. Beat yolks and sugar % hour. Add other in- 
gredients. Then add whites beaten % hour. Bake in spring form 
I hour. MRS. WM. A. LEWIS. 

Walnut Cake. 
Eight yolks beaten lightly, 8 tablespoons granulated sugar, 8 
coffee beans ground, y 2 teaspoon vanilla, and a little juice of lemon, 
V 2 pound nuts grated (leave about y 2 cup for filling). Last of all, 
the whites of egg beaten, then added. Bake in two layers. 

Filling. 

Three yolks beaten lightly, 2 tablespoons granulated sugar, X A 
cup cream, 1 teaspoon cornstarch mixed together with the eggs; then 
put in double boiler and boiled until thick, when cooled add vanilla 
and the rest of the nuts, and add between layers. 

MRS. E. MICHAEL, Spokane. 
"Matzo Cake"— No. 1. 
Eight eggs, yolks well beaten, with 1 cup sugar, % cup matzo 
flour (or crackers), rind of 1 lemon, % cup almonds, 1 teaspoon 
yeast powder; whites added last. Bake 30 minutes. 

MRS. A. KAUFMAN. 
Matzo Cake — No. 2. 
Yolks 9 eggs, beaten with two cups sugar very light, % cup 
matzo meal sifted very fine, juice and rind 1 lemon and 1 orange, 
4 sticks chocolate, 1 cup almonds ground, 1 glass white wine and 

the stifft^r beaten whites last. MRS. SAM BROWN. 

The best hotel on the Pacific Coast _i ftt-in Seattle. HOTEL BUTLER 



128 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Nut Cake. 

Nine eggs, y 2 pound bar sugar, 1 lb of ground walnuts, to be 
measured before shells are removed. Beat the yolks and sugar until 
very thick, then gradually add the nuts, then the whites, beaten very 
stiff. Last, 2 tablespoons matzo meal, the sugar and meal sifted 
twice. Bake slowly. Ice top of cake and decorate with nuts. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 
Walnut Torte. 

Three-quarter pounds ground walnuts (shelled), 8 eggs, 1*£ cups 
sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Cream yolks 
of eggs and sugar; add walnuts, into which baking powder has been 
mixed; lastly add whites of eggs beaten stiff, and vanilla. Bake in 
loaf in a medium oven for 45 minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 
The above can be made substituting almonds for walnuts. Note the 
absence of flour. MRS. JACOB R. HILLER. 

Dobach Torte. 

(Twelve layer cake.) 

Cream yolks of six eggs with y 2 pound powdered sugar; add 1% 
heaping wooden spoons sifted flour; then add beaten whites of 6 
eggs lightly and carefully into the mixture. Butter pie plates on 
wrong side (under side) and sprinkle with flour lightly over the 
butter and spread the mixture very thin. This amount of dough is 
for 1 cake of 12 layers. 

Filling. — Cream y 2 pound of sweet butter and put on ice imme- 
diately; take y 2 pound sweet chocolate and break it into a cup of 
strong liquid coffee; add 4 cooking spoons granulated sugar and let 
it boil until you pull it almost like candy; remove from fire and stir 
chocolate until quite cold. When cold, add the chocolate mixture to 
the creamed butter. This filling is spread thin between the layers, 
spreading the icing thicker on top and sides of the cake. This is 
very fine, but care must be taken in baking and removing layers, as 
layers are thin as wafers. MRS. MICHAEL, Spokane. 

Linze Torte. 

One-quarter pound butter, % pound sugar, % pound flour mixed 
with % teaspoon yeast powder, 1 egg, 3 or 4 tablespoons cream, 4 
tablespoons grated chocolate, 4 tablespoons blanched almonds chop- 
ped (or walnuts), y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon allspice, and 
the grated rind of a lemon, pinch of salt. Beat butter to a cream, 
then add sugar, egg, chocolate, almonds (or walnuts), spices, cream and 
lastly flour. Roll about y 2 inch thick, line a couple of pans with 
the paste, on which spread any kind of jam, and from the remainder 
of the paste cut narrow strips of which to form a netting over the 
jam. Bake in a moderate oven for about y 2 hour. While still 
warm, cut into small squares. MRS. S. SICHEL, Portland. 



RELIANCE S 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 129 



Brot Torte — No. 1. 
Nine tablespoons granulated sugar, 10 eggs; mix yolks with sugar, 
add 6 ounces ground almonds, 6 ounces ground citron, 3 table- 
spoons cracker meal, 1 lemon grated and juice, 1 apple grated, all 
kinds spices, vanilla; beat whites separately, put in last. Bake for 1 
hour. MRS. E. L. ALLENBERG. 

Brot Torte — No. 2. 

One cup stale rye bread crumbs, x / 2 cup grated almonds, piece 
Corsican citron cut fine, 8 eggs, 2 cups fine granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, V 2 teaspoon allspice, 1 wineglass brandy. Beat the yolks 
of eggs about 20 minutes; put in the balance of ingredients separ- 
ately and gradually. Last, the beaten stiff whites of the eggs, in 
which put a good pinch of salt before beating. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven. MARIA WILZINSKI. 
Brot Torte — No. 3. 

Eight eggs, separate the yolks; 1% cups sugar, 1 cup grated 
black bread, 1 stick chocolate, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
allspice, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 cup milk, V 2 
pound almonds grated. Beat the yolks and sugar 20 minutes. Beat 
whites to a froth and add last. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Quick Coffee Cake. 

One-half cup butter, V 2 cup sugar, 2 eggs, % cup milk, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 2 cups flour; flavor to taste. 

M. T. CARO, San Francisco. 

Orange Torte. 

One cup almonds, not blanched but chopped fine; 1 cup bread 
crumbs (stale), juice 2 oranges and rind of 1, 8 eggs beaten separ- 
ately, beat yolks with 1 cup sugar. Soak bread ■ crumbs in orange 
juice, mix rind with almonds, then put with eggs and sugar 
and beaten whites. Bake in 3 layers, about 15 minutes. 

For Top. — 2 tablespoons granulated sugar and juice y 2 orange 
cooked to syrup. Pour over cake a little while before serving. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 
Orange Cake. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, 5 yolks, whites beaten to 
snow; 1 grated orange, V 2 cup cold water, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. To mix, beat yolks to froth, add sugar, grated 
orange and water, then add alternately the beaten whites and flour 
(sifted with baking powder). Bake 1 hour in very slow oven; when 
cold cut through cake and fill. 

Filling. — Juice I lemon, juice 1 orange, 1 egg, sugar to taste; 
boil until thick. For the icing use 1V 2 cups powdered sugar, mix with 
hot water; boil until syrup and ice cake. 

MRS. S. BAUM, Portland. 

The recipes in this hook are easily read because of their splendid 
arrangement. See The Merchants' Printing- Company, Times Building 1 . 
Main 4134, Ind. 655. 



130 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Uneeda Biscuit Cake. 
Six eggs beaten separately, 7 Uneedas rolled fine and sifted, 
\y 2 cups powdered sugar well sifted, 2 squares sweet chocolate grated, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 of allspice, y 2 cup chopped almonds. Bake 
% hour in moderate oven. CARRIE KOCH. 

Caramel Cake. 

Dissolve 4 cookspoons chocolate in 4 cookspoons boiling water 
and let stand till cool. V 2 cup butter creamed with iy 2 cups sugar; 
beat yolks 4 eggs and add to chocolate; y 2 cup milk, 1% cups flour, 

2 teaspoons baking powder, vanilla; add beaten whites last. 

Icing.— 2 cups brown sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 7 tablespoons 
milk. Boil the above together till thick and then beat till creamy. 

MRS. J. V. GRUNBAUM. 

Caramel Cake or Burnt Cake. 

Caramel Syrup. — Put half cup sugar into a granite pan and stir 
over fire until sugar melts and throws off an intense smoke. It must 
really burn. Have ready y 2 cup boiling water; remove pan from 
fire, throw in water and stir rapidly. Then allow it to boil until it 
is as thick as syrup. Bottle and put away for use. This is enough 
for three cakes. 

For the Cake. — Beat y 2 cup butter and iy 2 cups sugar to a 
cream; add yolks of three eggs and 1 cup water. Then stir in gradu- 
ally 2 cups flour and beat 3 minutes. Add 3 teaspoons caramel 
syrup and 1 teaspoon vanilla and another y 2 cup flour. Beat again 
and stir in carefully 2 teaspoons baking powder and well beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Bake in layers in a moderate oven. 

Filling. — Make boiled icing and when cool beat in 2 teaspoons 
caramel syrup and 1 teaspoon vanilla and 1 cup chopped nuts. 

GOLDIE LEWIS. 
Cocoanut Cake. 
Cream 1 cup sugar and y 2 cup butter; add % cup milk. Beat 
yolks 3 eggs, add to mixture; 2% cups flour and 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Then the beaten whites and 1 cup grated or dessicated 
cocoanut. White icing with little cocoanut and almond extract. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Apple Cake Without Eggs. 
One cup sugar and y 2 cup butter, 1 cup each of raisins and 
chopped walnuts, 1 cup sour apple sauce, 1 2/3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon 
baking soda dissolved in a little hot water; y 2 teaspoon each of cin- 
namon, ginger and cloves, pinch of salt. 

MRS. H. ELSTER. 



RELIANCE 33KS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 131 



Hot Apple Cake. 

One pint flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 
tablespoons sugar, y 2 cup milk, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 apples. 
Sift well together the flour salt, sugar and baking powder; work in 
butter with finger tips; add 2 apples cut in dice, add beaten egg 
and milk to mix a little softer than biscuit. Spread in shallow pan, 
lay slices of apple over top, sprinkle with sugar and bake in hot 
oven. MRS. L. NATHAN. 

Danish Apple Cake. 

One cup flour, 1-3 cup butter, y 2 cup brown sugar, 1 egg and a 
pinch of salt. After they are well blended, mold on a board and 
cut in 3 parts and roll each part to fill a pie plate. Bake 3 cakes 
in a slow oven to a light brown. Cook a few apples — 4 or 5 — as 
for apple sauce, with a little sugar. When this is cool add a little 
cinnamon, and spread between the layers. Cover the top of the 
cake with the following cream, letting it run over the sides until 
the cake is entirely covered: Boil iy 2 cups milk, dissolve tablespoon 
of cornstarch in a little cold milk; add 1 beaten egg, y 2 cup sugar 
and lemon extract to taste. Stir this into the boiling milk and pour 
over cake while warm. Make 24 hours before using. 

GERTRUDE JOSEPH. 
Dutch Apple Cake. 

One pint flour (sifted), y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon cream of 
tartar, % cup butter (mix through above ingredients), 2 tablespoons 
sugar; mix to dough with 1 scant cup milk, to which has been added 
1 well-beaten egg. When well blended add y 2 teaspoon baking soda 
dissolved in 1 tablespoon boiling water. Mix thoroughly and spread 
on shallow pan to thickness of y 2 inch. Core and pare some apples 
cut into one-eighths. Cover the dough well with the apples and 
sprinkle over the top with sugar and grated nutmegs. Bake y 2 hour. 
Serve hot with cream. MRS. L. M. STERN. 

Marsh ma I low Cake. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, cream well; 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder, y 2 cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla; mix all 
together thoroughly and bake in layers. 

Filling. — 1 cup sugar and a little water; boil until stringy, then 
add 10 cents white or pink marshmallows; let dissolve in boiling 
syrup and spread between layers. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Charlotte Russe Cake. 

Bake two sponge layers of 1 cup sugar, 6 eggs, 1 cup flour, rind 
and juice 1 lemon, and fill with following: Whip 1 quart cream 
and add 1 pound grated hazel or walnuts. Flavor with a trifle vanilla 
and sweeten to taste. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Chocolate Tarts. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten with 1 cup sugar; y 2 teaspoon allspice 
and cinnamon, and y 2 cup flour. Lastly, the well-beaten whites and 
\y 2 teaspoons baking powder. Add y 2 cup assorted nuts and same of 
citron. Bake in a moderate oven. MRS. I. ROSENTHAL. 

You can buy your rang-e on the installment plan at Prottas & Levitt 
Bros., 2200 First Ave. 



132 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Ginger Cake. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, pinch salt, 
2 eggs, y 2 cup melted butter, pinch cinnamon, 1 even tablespoon 
ginger, y 2 cup of cold water, in which put scant y 2 teaspoon of bak- 
ing soda, 2 cups flour. Bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. M. WILZINSKI. 

Maraschino Pain Gateau. 

Make 2 sponge cake layers. 

Filling. — Maraschino juice or other liquor juice, juice of 4 lemons, 
sugar to taste; pour this over layers. Put over strawberries or pre- 
serves, then layer of almond paste. 

Almond Paste. — iy 2 pounds ground almonds, % pound powdered 
sugar, juice 2 lemons, little liquor, 1 whole beaten egg, boil all together. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Apricot Cream Cake. 
Line a cake pan with dough; have some apricots cut in half. 
Put them on and sugar. Make a custard of 5 or 6 eggs, % cup 
sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, some juice of fruit, 1 cup sour milk. Add 
the beaten whites last. Pour over cake and bake slowly for 1 hour. 

MRS. F. ROTHCHILD, Portland. 

Spiced Cream Layer Cake. 

Rub to a cream 2 tablespoons butter with iy 2 cups pulverized 
sugar. Add the yolks of 3 eggs, stirring in one at a time; 1 cup 
milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, add 2 tablespoons 
grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 of allspice and cloves and 
y 2 teaspoon mace. Bake in 2 layers and put whipped cream between 
and on top. 

Cheese Cake. 

For crust use either kuchen dough or pie crust. 

Filling. — 1 pound cottage cheese, work until smooth; flavor with 
a few drops of vanilla and lemon. A little flour, 3 eggs and y 2 cup 
sweet cream; sweeten with powdered sugar to suit taste. 

MRS. J. S. COHEN. 
Scotch Cake. 

One-quarter pound best butter, 1 pound dark brown sugar, y 2 
teacup dark molasses, 1 teaspoon ground cloves, 1 lb flour. Mix but- 
ter and sugar in pan, putting in cloves at the same time; beat thor- 
oughly and soften with molasses; then add 1 pint sifted flour. After 
mixing in flour, empty on marble and work as pastry, using the re- 
maining flour. Roll thin and fill the bottom of a shallow pan. Bake 
in a quick oven and cut in squares while hot. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 



USE RELIANCE 



:liance c v a s? 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 133 



Cheese Cake. 
One pint cheese, y 2 pint rich cream, 1 heaping tablespoon flour, 
6 eggs, 1 cup sugar. Stir cheese and cream together until it looks 
like a mass of cream. Sift flour into it; take sugar and yolks and 
beat light. Put all together, flavor with vanilla or the grated rind 
of y 2 a lemon. Lastly, beat the whites of the eggs very stiff and 
mix with the other very lightly. Have your spring-form all ready 
lined with a nice pie crust, and then pour the whole into it 
Sprinkle a little powdered sugar on top and bake in a medium oven 
% of an hour. MRS. CHAS. ROSENFELD. 

Fudge Cake. 

Cream together 1 cup sugar and two-thirds cup butter; add 1 
cup milk. Stir in lightly 2y 2 cups flour, into which 1 heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder has been sifted. Add y± cup melted chocolate 
and y 2 cup walnuts and lastly, 3 eggs, beaten separately. 

For fudge frosting, use iy 2 tablespoons butter, y 2 cup unsweet- 
ened cocoa, 1% cups granulated sugar, few grains salt, % cup 
milk. Boil 8 minutes. Remove from fire and beat until creamy. 
Add little vanilla and pour over cake about % inch thick. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Gingerbread No. 1. 

One cup molasses, y 2 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup boil- 
ing coffee, 1 heaping teaspoon baking soda, 3 cups flour, after sifting. 
Cloves, allspice, cinnamon and ginger (a tablespoon ginger), the 
others to taste; 2 eggs well beaten put in last. Cream butter and 
sugar. Pour in boiling coffee, mix well; then add the flour. Put 
the soda into the molasses; let stand for a few minutes, until it 
looks light. Then put into the mixture. Lastly the well beaten 
eggs. Stir well and add spices and pinch of salt. Bake in a bread 
pan a little over y 2 hour. 

MRS. MARTIN JACKSON, Los Angeles. 

Gingerbread No. 2. 

One cup molasses, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup brown sugar, 1 scant 
teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves and allspice and two of ginger. Put 
this in bowl and pour over 2 teaspoons soda dissolved in 1 cup boil- 
ing water. Add 2% cups flour and 2 well beaten eggs. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Molasses Cake. 
One slice butter 1 inch thick, \y 2 cups of brown sugar, mix to- 
gether; 6 eggs (whites and yolks separated), put yolks with butter 
and sugar (mix), then whites; 1 heaping cup molasses, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, even teaspoon allspice, trifle ginger; 
mix all together. Then add 2 cups milk, 1 sieve \y 2 cups of flour, 
well mixed, 3% teaspoons yeast powder. Mix all ingredients well 
together. Butter pan first, then sprinkle trifle flour on bottom of 
pan. Bake in medium oven for 1 hour. MRS. COHEN, Oakland. 

Seattle may justly boast of the handsomest theatre in the country — 
The Moore. 



134 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Date Cake No. 1. 
Yolks of 10 eggs beaten for y 2 hour, with 1 cup sifted powdered 
sugar, add V 2 teaspoon cinnamon and allspice, \y 2 squares chocolate 
and % cup matzo flour sifted fine, the juice and rind of 1 orange, 10 
cents dates cut fine. Add well-beaten whites of eggs. 

MRS. S. FRIEDENTHAL. 

Date Cake No. 2. 

To 1 pound of chopped dates, 6 eggs beaten separately; juice of 
2 lemons and rind grated, use % teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup chocolate, 6 rolled crackers, y 2 teaspoon 
baking powder. Bake in a slow oven. MRS. I. ROSENTHAL. 

Date Cake No. 3. 

Twelve eggs, whites beaten separately; 2 cups sugar, 2 sticks 
chocolate, grated; 7 crackers rolled fine, y 2 pound chopped dates, 
1 teaspoon baking powder; flavor vanilla, allspice to taste. Add 
beaten whites last. MRS. E. MARX. 

Date Torte. 
Fourteen egg yolks, 1 pound powdered sugar, all beaten y 2 hour; 
y 2 pound chopped dates, iy 2 teaspoons chocolate, grated peel of a 
lemon, juice of 1 orange, 1 cup sifted matzo flour. Add whites, 
beaten y 2 hour. Bake slowly in spring-form. 

MRS. WM. LEWIS. 
Brown Stone Front. 
Dark part: 1 cup brown sugar, y 2 cup milk, 1 cup grated choco- 
late, yolk of 1 egg. Let come to a boil. Light part: 1 cup white 
sugar, y 2 cup butter, 2 cups flour, 2 eggs, level teaspoon soda, y 2 
cup milk. Pour dark part into light part while hot and bake in 
layers. Any preferred filling. Whipped cream is very nice. 

MRS. L. GOTTSTEIN. 

Cocoanut Chocolate Cake. 
Four eggs, yolks are beaten, with cupful of sugar, flavor, add y 2 
cup cold water, 2 teaspoons baking powder mixed with the 2 cups 
flour. Mix all together and bake in 2 jelly tins. The whites of the 
eggs are beaten to a snow, a little jelly stirred in; also, 2 ounces 
grated chocolate, % cup grated cocoanut; flavor. Mix well and 
spread between the layers. MRS. S. LEVTNSON. 

Dutch Chocolate Cake. 
l 1 /^ cups sugar, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup sweet milk, 1% cups flour, 
1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, 4 eggs, 6 heaping teaspoons choc- 
olate grated, 5 tablespoons boiling water. Pour the water over the 
chocolate. MRS. E. L. ALLENBERG. 



.LIHIXUCi VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 135 



Cocoa Layer Cake. 

Three tablespoons butter, iy 2 cups sugar, 1 egg and 2 yolks, 1 
cup water or milk, 2% cups sifted flour, 2% teaspoons cinnamon, 2 
tablespoons cocoa. Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, then the 
eggs, one at a time unbeaten, beating each one in with the butter 
and sugar before adding another. Sift together all dry ingredients 
three or four times and add them, alternately, with the milk (or 
water) ; beat well. Fill three greased layer tins and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. MRS. L. NATHAN. 
Chocolate Potato Cake. 

Four eggs separated, two-thirds cup butter, 2 cups granulated 
sugar, 2 cups sifted flour, 1 cup hot grated potatoes, y 2 cup sweet 
milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 cup 
chopped walnuts. Add little cinnamon, allspice and citron cut very 
fine. Bake slowly. The above makes a large cake. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 
Chocolate Cake. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 cup grated 
chocolate, 1 cup walnuts, 2V 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Filling. — 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 cup milk, 2 cups brown sugar, 
piece of butter, vanilla; boil all together. 

MRS. M. BARASH. 
Chocolate Cake No. 1. 

One-half cup butter, iy 2 cups sugar, yolks 4 eggs, y 2 cup milk, 2 
cups flour, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking powder. Dissolve 1 cup 
grated chocolate in V 2 cup of boiling water, add to the above while 
hot; vanilla and lastly stiffly beaten whites of the 4 eggs. 

Icing. — Four tablespoons chocolate, 4 tablespoons sugar, y 2 cup milk, 
boil 15 minutes, add piece of butter size of egg, when nearly done. 
Beat till cool, spread on cake. Bake cake in spring form % of an 
hour. MRS. A. E.WILZIN. 

Chocolate Cake No. 2. 

One cup sugar, V 2 cup butter, 3 eggs (beaten separately, whites 
added last), 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, V 2 tea- 
spoonful allspice, pinch salt, 1 cup black coffee, iy 2 cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Bake in square tins in moderate oven 
17 to 20 minutes. 

Put jelly between layers and make cream icing of two cups con- 
fectioners sugar moistened with enough cream to make it a proper 
consistency for icing, add enough chocolate or cocoa to darken to 
taste, flavor with a bit of vanilla. KATE GRUNBAUM. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

Slice butter and 1 cup sugar creamed, add 4 eggs, one at a time, 
I teaspoonful cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, % cup chocolate, handful 
chopped almonds, and little citron chopped, \y 2 cups flour, \y 2 tea- 
spoonsful baking powder, 1 cup milk. Bake in layers, spread jelly 
between and chocolate icin g on t op . MRS. E. MO RGENSTEIN. 

You can get a Star Estate Steel Range on thirty days' free trial. 
Frottas & Levitt Bros., 2200 First Ave., Seattle. 



136 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Chocolate Torte. 

Make a rich cookie dough consisting of a cup of butter, yolks of 
2 eggs, % cup sugar, flour, and enough cream to soften a little, add 
grated lemon or vanilla, then roll out dough about y 2 inch thick and 
put in spring form. 

Filling. — Take a quart of milk, put in double boiler, add a little 
lemon juice, nuts and some brandy, also a little cloves and cinnamon, 
and let all come to a boil, meanwhile take about 2 or 3 cups of ground 
chocolate mixed with one cup of flour and one of sugar, add this to the 
milk, also yolks 2 eggs beaten well, let it cook until very thick and 
when cold put into the crust, bake in a hot oven, as it only needs to 
get nice and brown. MRS. EMANUEL ROSENBERG. 

Croquante Cake. 

Three-fourths pound shelled almonds, y 2 pound citron, % pound 
sugar, % pound flour, 6 eggs. Blanch and halve almonds and slice 
citron, mix well together and roll in a little flour, add to them the 
sugar, then the eggs well beaten and last the rest of the flour. But- 
ter shallow pans and lay in the mixture about 2 inches thick; after 
it is baked in quick oven, slice cake into strips % inches wide and 
turn each piece; put back in oven and bake a little; when cold put 
away in tin box. MRS. L. GOTTSTEIN. 

Devil Cake. 

One cup milk, yolks 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, iy 2 cups flour, 3 table- 
spoons melted butter, pinch of salt. Mix yolks and V 2 cup of milk 
and 3 tablespoons of chocolate in a sauce pan and boil until thick, 
stirring all the time, remove and add rest of the milk, sugar, and 
butter, flour, salt, and teaspoon baking soda. 

Chocolate Filing. — Two teacups of sugar, 3 tablespoons chocolate, 
boil without stiring five minutes by the clock, then stir until soft 
enough to put on cake. M. T. CARO. 

Devil Layer Cake. 

Custard Part. — One cup of brown sugar, y 2 cup milk, 1 cup 
Baker's unsweetened chocolate, yolk 1 egg, boil slowly until thick and 
let cool. 

Cake Part. — One cup of brown sugar, y 2 cup butter, 2 eggs, 2 
cups of flour, sifted, 1 teaspoonful soda which is dissolved in a little 
warm water, y 2 cup milk; cream sugar and butter, add yolks of eggs, 
milk, flour, then whites, beat together and stir in custard, and last add 
soda. 

Filling. — One cup graunlated sugar, y 2 cup water, boil until it 
threads, add 10c whole marshmallows, when dissolved beat into the 
stiffened white of an egg until very smooth. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 



USE RELIANCE 



:liance c v a ks 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 137 



Devils Food Cake. 

One-half cup milk, y 2 cup chocolate, y 2 cup sugar, boil and cool. 
2-3 cup sugar, 2 eggs (separate, use yolks only) % cup butter, 2 cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon baking soda, y 2 teaspoon baking powder, y 2 cup 
milk, mix with above and bake in layers. Put whipped cream be- 
tween layers. MRS. JACOBS, Oakland. 

Honey Cake. 

Mix 1 cup honey with 1 cup sugar; add five eggs beaten to- 
gether, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon each of cloves, allspice, 
nutmeg, pinch of salt, 5 flat tablespoons chocolate, 1 handful almonds 
blanched and cut coarse, shake a little flour over them; 2V 2 cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons Dr. Price's or Royal baking powder; spread on 
sheet pans (buttered). Bake in moderate oven. 

Icing. — y 2 cup granulated sugar, 2 tablespoons boiling water; 
boil until it thickens; spread over cake when nearly cool. 

MRS. M. WILZINSKI. 

Plain Two-Egg Cake. 
One-half cup butter, \y 2 cups sugar, cream together 2 eggs (whole) 
added 1 at a time; sift 3 cups flour 4 times with 2 level teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, 1 cup milk, vanilla. Add flour and milk alternately. Bake 
either in loaf or 2 layers. 

MRS. JOSEPH LEVITT, Pueblo, Colo. 

Mountain Cake. 
One cup molasses, y 2 cup brown sugar, y 2 cup melted butter, 1 
teaspoon each cloves and cinnamon, 2 teaspoons soda dissolved in 1 
cup boiling water, 2y 2 cups flour, yolks of 4 eggs well beaten and 
added last. 

For Filling.— 10 tablespoons boiling water and 2 cups sugar; boil 
until it threads and pour over beaten whites of 3 eggs and 1 cup 
chopped seeded raisins. Spread between layers and on top. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Napf Kuchen. 

Rub y 2 pound butter to cream with 1 cup granulated sugar; to 
this add 7 eggs, one at a time; beat % hour; add \y 2 cups flour and 
1 teaspoon yeast powder; a few grated almonds. Mix flour in slowly 
and bake in slow oven. MRS. J. KOLEMAN. 

Tacoma Layer Cake. 
Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 
3 cups flour with 1 teaspoon cream of tartar and y 2 teaspoon soda (2 
teaspons baking powder if preferred) ; flavor to suit taste. Put y 2 the 
above in jelly tins and to the remainder add 1 tablespoon chocolate, 1 
large cup raisins, seeded and chopped, y± pound citron chopped fine, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 of cloves and allspice, nutmeg, a spoonful 
flour. Bake in jelly tins. Put the light and dark layers alternately 
with a little jelly between. Better the second day. 
MRS. ELLIS H. GROSS. 

If there is a book you can not find at Lowman & Hanford's, it hasn't 
toeen printed yet. 



138 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Strawberry Shortcake With Biscuit Dough. 
Three cups flour, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder, y 2 tea- 
spoon salt, 2 heaping tablespoons butter, milk enough to make biscuit 
dough. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into large bowl; put in 
butter until butter is well mixed with flour, add milk; handle dough 
as little as possible after milk is in dough. Roll as for biscuit and 
spread in large pan and bake in hot oven. Mash and sugar 2 boxes 
strawberries and spread on cake when ready to serve. This short- 
cake is eaten warm and served with table cream. 

MRS. EMAR GOLDBERG-. 

Snow Cake, With Pink Marshmallow Filling. 
One-half teacup butter, 1 teacup sugar; beat to a cream and 
add extract to taste; % cup sweet milk; 2 level teacups flour sifted 
4 times, the last time add iy 2 teaspoons baking powder, pinch salt, 
and lastly the whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. Bake in two layers. 

Filling. — 20 cents pink marshmallows, put in bowl and place over 
a steaming kettle and allow to melt; 1 cup sugar and pinch of 



cream tartar, 



cup water, boil until it strings; pour slowly over 



the white of a well-beaten egg and add marshmallows. Spread be- 
tween layers and on top of cake. MRS. LEO L. STOCK, Fresno. 

Sadie's Spice Cake. 

One-half cup butter, \y 2 cups sugar, 5 eggs, iy 2 cups chocolate, 
1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 of allspice and 1 of vanilla, 2 
cups flour, \y 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

MRS. CHAS. ROSENFELD. 

Two-Egg Sponge Cake. 
Two eggs beaten very light, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 cup flour 
sifted with 1 teaspoon baking powder; add very slowly one-third to 
one-half cup boiling water; vanilla flavor; buttered pans. Well heated 
oven. MRS. A. L. JAFFE. 

Sponge Cake No. 1. 
One cup sugar, 4 tablespoons water, boil until it threads; whites 
3 eggs beaten stiff, beat syrup into whites of eggs until very thick, 
add 3 yolks, one at a time; flavor with vanilla, fold in 1 cup flour 
sifted 4 times. Bake V 2 hour. MRS. A. DINKLESPIEL. 

Sponge Cake No. 2. 
Six eggs, 1 cup sugar, beaten 20 minutes; 1 teaspoon lemon ex- 
tract, pinch salt, 2 tablespoons cold water, cup flour sifted 4 times. 
Bake in moderate oven. MRS. D. KOCH. 



USE RELIANCE 



.LIHIlUC VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 139 



Sponge Cake No. 3. 

One and one-half cups sugar, 6 eggs, beat V 2 hour; sift in 1^ 
cups flour sifted several times. Bake about 20 minutes. 

MRS. MANNIE COHEN. 

Sponge Cake Layer. 

Four yolks, 4 tablespoons sugar, beat well; 1 teaspoon vanilla, 3 
tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN 
Striped Cake. 
White part: 2 cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 2V 2 cups flour, 

1 cup sweet milk, 5 whites of eggs beaten very stiff, 2 even tea- 
spoons cream tartar, 1 even teaspoon soda. Dark part: 2 table- 
spoons white dough, y 2 cup molasses, V 2 cup flour. Bake in 3 small 
dripping pans about 8x12. Two white layers and 1 dark. Put to- 
gether with jelly sliced very thin and laid all over the cake, not 
spread. Ice top and sides. MRS. M. PRAGER. 

Sponge Cake Drops. 

Yolks of 4 eggs beaten together with 1 cup fine granulated 
sugar, 1 cooking spoon cold water, pinch salt, % cup (measuring 
cup) flour sifted several times, 1 teaspoon best baking powder; beat 
whites very stiff. Have your muffin tins oiled with olive oil; bake 
in a little more than moderate oven. Do not open oven door before 
20 minutes, then try by touching the cake gently. If the cake 
comes up again, it is done; if it remains down, they must bake 
longer. MRS. M. WILZINSKI. 

Spiced Sponge Cake. 

Four eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

2 tablespoons chocolate, x k teaspoon all kinds of spices; add some 
chopped citron, almonds, according to taste. Bake in sheets or lay- 
ers. Ice with icing made of powdered sugar and boiling water. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Six eggs, separate them, whites beaten half stiff; add V 2 tea- 
spoon cream of tartar, then beat very stiff; 1 cup sugar sifted; beat 
again till thick; then beat yolks; then 1 cup sifted flour, sifted three 
times, and fold in. MRS. SAM BROWN. 

Mocha Torte. 

Four eggs, % cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, % cup 
flour, 1 tablespoon cold water, 1 dessert spoon coffee essence. Beat 
.the whites separately and add last. It makes 2 layers. 

Filling. — y 2 pint cream whipped with 1 tablespoon powdered 
sugar, 1 small tablespoon coffee essence. 

Frost for the Top. — 1 cup powdered sugar mixed with a little 
essence and water to make a paste. 

MRS. GEO. KIRSKE. 

Your rest at nig-ht will never be disturbed if you bank with the Pug-et 
Sound National Bank. 



140 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Mocha Cake. 
Beat 1 cup pulverized sugar with the yolks of 4 eggs; add % 
cup grated chocolate dissolved with 4 tablespoons boiling water, % 
cup flour, 1 level teaspoon yeast powder, spices. Add the beaten 
whites. Bake in 2 jelly tins. Fill and spread on top the following: 
y 2 pound sweet butter beaten to a cream, *4 pound pulverized sugar, 
yolks of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons of very strong coffee. Sprinkle top 
of cake with chopped nuts. MRS. CARL SCHERMER. 

Individual Sponge Cake. 
Beat yolks of 4 eggs about 10 minutes with 1 cup sugar; then 
add juice of small orange and beat until very thick, about 20 min- 
utes more; then add grated rind of orange, 1 cup of flour, teaspoon 
baking powder, whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiff. Grease muffin tins, 
fill % full and bake in moderate oven about 15 minutes. When 
cool cut off top of cakes, pull out some of the center of the cakes 
and fill with whipped cream. Ice tops of cakes with chocolate 
icing and replace on cakes. MRS. MICHAEL, Spokane. 

Potato Flour Cake for Easter. 

Yolks of 6 eggs beaten to a cream, whites beaten to snow, 2 
tablespoons matzo flour, 3 tablespoons potato flour, 6 tablespoons 
sugar, juice of y 2 lemon, a pinch of salt; add whites last. Bake 
in loaf form. 

Roosevelt Spice Cake. 

Cream 1 cup butter and 2 cups sugar; 1 cup milk, 4 whole eggs, 
one at a time; 4 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 tablespoon 
cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon cloves, y 2 teaspoon all- 
spice. Bake in loaf or layers. 

MRS. JOSEPH LEVITT, Pueblo, Colo. 

Ribbon Cake. 
One-half pound butter, V 2 pound sugar, 2 eggs, % pound flour, 
V 2 teaspoon baking powder. Make into a dough; take half and roll 
and put in long pan and spread with jam. Put other half on in strips; 
brush with beaten egg; sprinkle with sugar and chopped almonds. 
Bake and cut in diamond shape. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Deception Cake. 

Cream y 2 cup butter with 1 cup granulated sugar; add yolks 
3 eggs, 1 grated lemon peel (fresh), vanilla extract; chop y 2 cup 
each of raisins and currants very fine and soften with y 2 cup cold 
milk. Add 2 cups flour sifted with \y 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Mix all these ingredients very well, then add the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Bake in large size spring-form. MRS. M. BORNSTEIN. 



RELIANCE 33K5. 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 141 



One-Two-Three Cake. 

Sift flour, then take 1 cupful, add to that scant cup sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder. Take one-third cup melted butter, break in 

2 eggs and fill cup with milk; then mix all together and bake in 
sheet pan. When cool cut into different shapes. 

Icing. — 2 whites of eggs, add powdered sugar and different col- 
oring. 

You can add chocolate, cinnamon, cloves to above recipe, then ice 
with chocolate. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Simple Cornstarch Cake. 

One-half cup butter creamed with 1 cup sugar; add yolks of 

3 eggs, one at a time; y 2 teaspoon lemon extract, V 2 cup milk, % 
cup cornstarch, 1 cup flour, sift 3 times, the last time with 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder. Add the whites of eggs last, beaten stiff. 
Bake % of an hour in moderate oven. Use chocolate icing. 

MRS. LEO I. STOCK, Fresno. 

Rich Cup Cake. 

One and one-half cups butter, 3 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 8 eggs; 
flavor with vanilla and nutmeg. Add flour to make a good batter, 
and iy 2 teaspoons baking powder. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Cup Cake With Walnuts. 

One cup butter, 1 cup sugar, cream well; 4 eggs, add 1 at a 
time; % cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, 1 cup chopped nuts mixed with some of the flour and 
few raisins chopped. Bake % hour. To make citron cake omit nuts 
and add citron. MRS. E. MORGENSTEIN. 

German Cake. 

Three-quarters cup sugar, 1 cup milk, % cup butter, 2 eggs, 
juice of y 2 lemon, a little cinnamon. Beat whites of eggs separ- 
ately; 1 teaspoon baking powder in iy 2 cup flour. Bake in moderate 
oven. MRS. S. WOLF. 

Gesundheit's Kuchen. 

One and one-half cups sugar, % cup butter, creamed; add juice 
and rind of a lemon; add a little flour and beaten yolks of 4 eggs; 
y 2 cup milk and 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder and the 
beaten whites. MRS. E. ROSENBERG. 

Pineapple Torte. 

Three tablespoons sugar, 6 ounces butter, yolks 2 eggs and 1 
whole egg, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, rind of lemon; 
line the pan. 

Filling. — Pare and chop 1 pineapple, sugar to taste; y 2 cup 
farina; mix these two together, allow 20 minutes before using, then 
mix; beat 2 eggs; add slowly y 2 pound powdered sugar, y 2 pound 
grated and blanched almonds, a few drops bitter almond extract and 
vanilla. Mix with the above pineapple and farina. Bake from % to 1 
hour. MRS. L. M. STERN. 

Try Pioneer Brand Evaporated Milk in your cooking*, and note the 

improvement. 



142 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Pound Cake. 
The yolks of 12 eggs beaten to a cream with 1 pound of sugar; 
add 1 pound butter, 1 pound flour. Beat the whites to a froth and 
add a wine glass of brandy. Bake 1 hour. MRS. M. PRAGER. 

Chocolate Fruit Cake No. 1. 
One cup butter, 2 cups brown sugar, 5 eggs, y 2 pound or 3 sticks 
grated chocolate, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon each allspice, cloves and 
cinnamon, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, piece citron, 2V 2 cups flour, 
2 teaspoons baking powder, whiskey. MRS. A. L. BARMON. 

Chocolate Fruit Cake No. 2. 

One-half cup butter, stir to cream; 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, \y 2 sticks 
grated chocolate, y 2 cup milk, V 2 teaspoon allspice, V 2 teaspoon 
cloves, y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 cup raisins, y 2 cup currants, a piece 
citron chopped fine, l 1 /^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, a lit- 
tle brandy. MRS. JOE ROSENBERG. 

Fruit Cake No. 1. 
Three pounds currants, 3 pounds raisins, 1 pound citron, 1 pound 
seedless raisins, ^4 pound orange and lemon peel, 1 pound almonds, 
1% pounds butter, 1 pound flour (browned), 1% pounds brown sugar, 
12 eggs, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup brandy, 1 cup sherry or port wine, 
1 cup currant jelly, 2 grated nutmegs, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 2 tea- 
spoons cloves, 2 teaspoons ginger, little baking soda. Bake four 
hours. MRS. S. FRIEDLANDER. 

Coffee Fruit Cake. 
Four eggs well beaten, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 cup strong coffee, 5 cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 pound each of currants and raisins, % pound citron, 2 tea- 
spoons cloves, 2 of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoon 
allspice. Bake about 1 hour. MRS. S. FRIEDLANDER. 

Fruit Cake No. 2. 

One pound flour browned, iy 2 pounds brown sugar, 1*4 pounds 
butter, 1 cup molasses, 10 eggs, 3 pounds each of raisins and cur- 
rants, V 2 pound citron, 2 pounds dates and 2 pounds figs chopped, 2 
nutmegs grated, 2 teaspoons cloves, 3 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoon soda stirred in the molasses and y 2 cup rosewater. Flour the 
fruit well and bake in slow oven. MRS. SIMON LEWIS. 

White Fruit Cake No. 1. 
One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2y 2 cups flour, 
the whites of 7 eggs, 2 even teaspoons baking powder, 1 pound each 
of raisins, figs, almonds, X A pound citron, all chopped fine. Mix all 
before putting in fruit. MRS. H. ELSTER. 



" 1 I A fc I f* r CANNED FRUITS 
iLIANLt VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 143 



Fruit Cake No. 3. 
Two cups dried apples soaked in water over night, and the 
next morning squeezed dry, chopped fine and cooked with 1 cup mo- 
lasses for 10 minutes. Let this cool. Cream y 2 cup butter, iy 2 cups 
brown sugar; yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 teaspoon soda 
in 8 tablespoons water (cold), 1 teaspoon vanilla, 3 cups flour; beaten 
whites of eggs last. Bake 1 hour. MRS. J. GOLDSMITH. 

White Fruit Cake No. 2. 

Three-quarters pound butter, % pound pulverized sugar, 1 cup 
finely sliced citron, % pound flour, vanilla, whites of 18 eggs, 1 cup 
finely cut blanched almonds. Cream butter and sugar, add flour, 
fruit, almonds; the whites of eggs beaten very stiff last. Almond 
flavoring may be used if preferred. MRS. W. H. HAHLO. 

Fruit Cake No. 4. 
One pound brown sugar, two-thirds cup brandy, 1 pound butter, 
V 2 pound citron, 2 pounds currants, 3 pounds raisins, 1 pound pre- 
served figs, iy 2 pounds flour, 2 nutmegs grated, 12 eggs, 1 even tea- 
spoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup syrup, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 
small teaspoon each cloves, allspice and cinnamon. Divide flour into 
equal parts; into one part mix all the spices and into the other all 
the fruit. Cream the butter and sugar, add eggs beaten lightly, not 
separately; dissolve soda in syrup and add brandy; then the flour 
and spices, and last the fruit and nuts. Bake 3 hours in a moder- 
ately cool oven. This is a very simple cake to make and will keep 
fresh six months. MRS. LEO I. STOCK, Fresno, Cal. 

Fruit Cake No. 5. 

One and one-half pounds seeded raisins, y 2 pound currants 
cleaned, 1 pound Corsican citron and orange peel, 4 cups (heaping) 
flour dried in oven until a light brown, stirring it occasionally; sift into 
it 3 teaspoons Royal or Dr. Price's baking powder; 1V 8 cups sugar, 
lVs cups New Orleans molasses, 1 cup currant or any kind of jelly, 
V 2 cup brandy poured over spices, iy 2 teaspoons each of cinnamon, 
allspice and mace; 1 teaspoon cloves, two grated nutmegs; separate 
the yolks from eggs, add to the yolks 1 cup butter, % cup strong 
black coffee. The above are the ingredients. Now, to mix them, 
beat the 4 eggs very light, then add the sugar by degrees, next the 
molasses, next jelly and black coffee; then the brandy-soaked spices; 
next a few handfuls of the fruit, and a cup of flour. Do this alter- 
nately until all is used. Next the butter, which has been slightly 
melted, and last the whites of the eggs beaten very stiff. Butter 
the pans well and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Oblong pans, as for 
a ten-cent loaf of bread are nice to bake in. Bake about 3 hours 
in a slow oven. MARIA WILZINSKI. 

Doughnuts. 

One small teacup sugar, 2 eggs, 3 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 generous teaspoons melted butter. Fry 
in boiling butter. MRS. S. FRIEDENTHAL. 

Bread like mother used to bake if you use Crescent Egg- Phosphate 
Baking- Powder. 



144 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Old English Plum Cake. 
One pound dry flour, 1 pound sweet butter, 1 pound sugar, 12 
eggs, 2 pounds raisins, stoned; 2 pounds currants, well washed, dried 
and floured; as much spice as you please; a glass of wine, 1 of 
brandy and a pound of citron. Mix the butter and sugar as for 
pound cake. Sift the spice, and beat the eggs very light. Put in 
the fruit last, stirring it in gradually; it should be well floured; if 
necessary, add more flour after the fruit is in. Butter sheets of 
paper and line the inside of 1 large pan or 2 smaller ones; lay in 
some slices of citron, then a layer of the mixture, then of the citron, 
and so on, till the pan is full. This cake resquires a tolerably hot 
and steady oven, and will need baking 4 or 5 hours, according to 
its thickness. It will be better to let it cool gradually in the oven. 
Ice it when thoroughly cold. MRS. HENRY GRUNBAUM. 

Vienna Prater Cake. 

Six eggs, 1 cup sugar, % cup flour, % cup chocolate, l 1 /^ tea- 
spoons baking powder, vanilla extract. Bake in layers and when 
perfectly cold put in the following filling: % cup milk boiled with 
1 cup chopepd walnuts; thicken with yolks of 2 eggs and add brandy or 
rum to taste. Let cool thoroughly and spread between layers. Beat 
the eggs and sugar well. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Vienna Prater Cake. 

Yolks of 2 eggs beaten with 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup hot water, 1 
cup flour and 3 teaspoons chocolate, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, and 
last, the whites of the eggs beaten. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in 
hot oven. 

Filling. — Cup of chopped nuts, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 3 tablespoons 
sugar; just let it thicken, not boil. Flavor with rum. 

Frosting. — 1 cup powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons cream; beat well 
and let it harden on the cake. MRS. S. FRIEDLANDER. 

Crullers. 

One egg, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, 1 tablespoon 
cream, l r A teaspoons salt, 1 teaspoon brandy. Flour to roll. Mix 
butter, salt and sugar with the egg. Add the cream, brandy and 
flour to make a stiff dough. Toss onto a floured board and roll very 
thin in strips 3 inches long by 2 inches wide. Run a fork in. Fry in 
hot fat until light brown, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Doughnuts. 
Two cups mashed potatoes, 2 cups sugar, 3 eggs and 1 cup sweet 
milk; 1 teaspoon butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon baking powder; 
nutmeg and salt; flour to mix very soft. GOLDIE LEWIS. 



:UANCE3SK£ 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



CAKE 145 



Orange Filling. 
Juice and rind of 1 orange, 1 apple grated, 1 egg, 1 cup sugar; 
boil all together 10 or 15 minutes. For lemon filling, substitute 
lemon for orange. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Maple Frosting. 

One pint maple syrup and V* cup butter boiled until it forms 
soft ball. To y 2 pound marshmallows add 3 or 4 tablespoons hot 
water and set pan over boiling water. When marshmallows are 
partly melted beat into maple syrup mixture and beat until smooth 
and cool enough to remain on cake. This is enough for a large 
sheet of cake. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Orange Icing. 

Grated peel of V 2 orange, 2 tablespoons orange juice, 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice. Mix and let stand 15 minutes. Strain and add 
to beaten yolk of 1 egg. Stir in powdered sugar sifted. 

MRS. WM. LEWIS. 

Cream Puffs. 

One cup boiling water, 1 cup flour and V 2 cup butter. Mix together, 
first putting the butter in the boiling water, then stirring in the flour 
and y± teaspoon baking powder.. Let cool. Stir in 3 eggs, and drop 
into buttered pan, and bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. 

Pilling. — 1 cup sweet milk, V 2 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1 tablespoon 
cornstarch boiled together. Dust top with pulverized sugar. 

GERTRUDE JOSEPH. 

Allegretti Frosting For Plain Cake. 
Two cups sugar, 1 cup boiling water, % teaspoon cream of tar- 
tar. Boil until it threads, then pour over whites of 2 eggs, beaten, 
and beat until thick and creamy. Let this dry on the cake, then 
cover with Baker's bitter cholocate melted. 

MRS. MAX SCHUBACH. 

Quick Icing. 

Put the whites of 2 eggs (unbeaten) into a bowl with 2 cups of 
powdered sugar; mix. Add a few drops of lemon juice, then beat 
hard for 4 or 5 minutes. The beating dissolves the sugar in the 
egg and makes a smooth, creamy icing. Spread before cake is en- 
tirely cold. MRS. L. NATHAN. 

Filling for White Layer Cake. 

One-quarter pound raisins, y 2 pound of currants, % pound figs, 
^4 pound pecans. Chop the fruit and nuts very fine and add icing 
made of sugar and whites of eggs. Spread this quite thickly be- 
tween the layers. Spread only icing on top. 

MRS. J. S. COHEN. 

Pioneer Brand Evaporated Milk is always fresh and sweet. Use it for 
cooking*. 



146 ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 

Printing That Counts 

WE WIN WHEN IT COMES TO 

Saving Time — Saving Money — Superior Work 

Bank, Society 
a^ Commercial 

PRINTING 

LITHOGRAPHING a „ d 
BOOK BINDING OF 
SUPERIOR QUALITY 

We are prepared to get your work 
out right, at prices that will get the 
business, if you give us an opportu- 
nity tO figure. This Book was printed by us 



LOUIS R. LURIE ADOLPH CAHEN 

Merchants Printing Co, 

Main 4134 ; Ind. 655 Times Building, Seattle 



COOKIES 147 



Cookies 



These require a quick oven. If pans get cold before you can take 
cookies off, set back on the stove a few minutes, and the cakes will 
slip off easily. Flour pans lightly for baking sponge drops, lady fin- 
gers, anise cakes, etc. Glaze cookies by washing over top with milk 
or beaten egg and sprinkling sugar on top. A whole raisin, an almond 
blanched, a piece of citron or half a walnut may be used to decorate. 
Another way to glaze is, when cookies are about baked, rub over with 
a brush dipped in a syrup made of sugar and water and return to 
oven a moment. 

Anise Seed Cookies. 
Beat 4 eggs and \y 2 cups sugar very light. Then fold in \y 2 cups 
flour, seasoning with 12 to 15 drops anise oil (according to taste). 
Drop in pans and let stand over night to dry. Bake 10 minutes in a 
moderate oven. MRS. J. GOLDSMITH. 

Jelly Cookies. 
Cream one cup butter and 2 cups sugar, add 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, flour 
to roll, 2 teaspoons baking powder, and little vanilla. For the top of 
half of them drop a little jelly in center before you bake. For the rest 
mix chopped nuts, sugar and cinnamon. Brush first with the yolk of 
beaten egg and then the sugar mixture. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 
Sugar Cookies. 
Six eggs, 1 cup sugar, y 2 pound butter, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
teaspoon vanilla and a pinch of salt. Add flour enough to roll, cut out, 
sprinkle with sugar and bake. MRS. D. KOCH. 

Sour Milk Cookies. 

iy 2 cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 6 whole eggs, y 2 cup sour milk. Mix 
with juice of 1 lemon, a little soda on tip of knife and large teaspoon 
baking powder with flour enough to roll. When cut brush with beaten 
eggs mixed with a little milk or anise seed or chopped nuts. 

MRS. D. KOCH. 
Soft Sugar Cookies. 

Beat 6 eggs light, whites and yolks separately. Cream until many 
shades •lighter than when you began the work; 3 even cups of sugar 
and 1 rounded cup of butter. Beat it to a veritable cream, add the 
yolks, and lastly the whites alternately with just enough sifted flour 
for a soft dough. Do not have it stiff -enough to roll in a sheet. Flour 
your hand's and mold into round cakes. Bake in quick oven. Flavor 
as desired. ■ ELSIE BARMON. 

For a cold supper you must have some Independent Beer. Don't neg- 
lect ordering- it. 



148 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Butter Cookies. 

Take 5 eggs and 1 cup granulated sugar and beat well. Add to this 

1 pound butter, which first wash out in cold water, 1 teaspoon yeast 

powder, enough flour to roll. Add a little lemon extract. Then cut 

into cookies with a form and put in sheet pan. Bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. J. KOLEMAN. 
Butter Cookies Number 2. 
One pound butter, \y 2 cups sugar, 3 eggs. Take 2 whites out and 
beat for the top. One pony glass of whisky and flour enough so that 
you can roll in rings, and then dip them in white of eggs, and then in 
sugar, cinnamon and almonds (chopped), then bake. 

MRS. SAM BROWN. 
Cookies Zu Zu. 
Y 2 pound butter stirred with 2 cups sugar. Add 5 eggs, 1 at a 
time, 1 sifter flour, 1 teaspoon Hartshorn powder diluted with % cup 
milk. Add grated rind 2 lemons. Roll out the dough and cut into 
cookies. Brush each one with beaten egg and then spread very thickly 
with the following filling: 2 boxes Zu Zu ginger snaps, 1 pound al- 
monds, 1 pound walnuts, sugar and cinnamon. Chop and mix well. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 
Cookies. 
To a pound and a half of well washed butter use 8 eggs, beaten 
with 2 cups of sugar. Use enough flour to be able to roll the dough; 
iy 2 teaspoons baking powder. Mix well and roll out thin, and bake in 
a hot oven. You can improve by mixing 6 hard-boiled eggs (yolks 
only) with the dough and spread blanched almonds cut fine and 
sugar on top of cookies. MRS. POLITZ. 

Fruit Cookies. 
One cup butter, \y 2 cups brown sugar, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 1 cup currants, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup English wal- 
nuts, 1 teaspoon each cloves, allspice and cinnamon, cracker meal in 
pan. Drop from spoon. CARRIE KOCH. 

Brownies. 
Mix 1 cup sugar, % cup melted butter, 1 egg unbeaten, 2 ounces 
Baker's chocolate (melted), % teaspoon vanilla, y 2 cup flour, y 2 cup of 
walnut meats cut in pieces. Line a 7-inch square pan with parafflne 
paper, spread mixture evenly in pan and bake in slow oven. Turn 
from pan, remove paper and cut in strips, using a sharp knife. 

Ginger Snaps. 
One cup butter, 1 cup sugar. Boil until thick and when cold add 1 
tablespoon cinnamon, 2 tablespoons ginger, a pinch of salt, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, flour to roll. • 

MRS. S. FRIEDENTHAL. 



RELIANCE 3SKE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



COOKIES 149 



Ginger Cookies. 

Two cups molasses, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup fat, 1 cup brown sugar, 
y 2 cup sour milk or cream, iy 2 tablespoons ground ginger. Beat 2 eggs 
put with butter, sugar and fat. Dissolve in cream Sy 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking soda, and use iy 2 sifters flour. Flour board and roll out. Bake 
in hot oven. MRS. H. ELSTER. 

Ginger Cookies. 

One cup brown sugar, 3 cups New Orleans molasses, iy 2 cups but- 
ter, 2 scant teaspoons soda, dissolved in 10 tablespoons boiling water. 
iy 2 tablespoons ginger. Add flour enough so it can be rolled nicely. 
Bake in hot oven until a nice brown. 

MRS. MITCHELL HARRIS, Olympia. 

Preserved Chinese Ginger Cookies. 
% pound butter, y 2 cup of preserved Chinese ginger cut up fine, 1 
pound of flour, % pound sugar, 2 eggs. Mix all these ingredients to- 
gether with hands, and when thoroughly mixed spread into a large- 
sized pan, about % inch thick. This dough cannot be rolled, so it 
must be spread with fingers into the pan, and if necessary apply a 
little flour to fingers. Bake and when almost cool, cut into diagonals or 
squares. ROSE CAHEN, San Francisco. 

London Tartlets. 
Roll puff paste % inch thick. Cut into tartlets and bake, first 
pressing down the center and putting a little jam in the center of 
each. Bake in moderate oven. When baked, cover top with this mix- 
ture: Yolks of 3 eggs mixed with 3 tablespoons each of ground alm- 
onds and powdered sugar, and a few drops lemon essence. Put back in 
slow oven to harden. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Kisses. 
Beat whites of 4 eggs to a firm froth, stir into it y 2 pound sifted 
powdered sugar, 2 teaspoons at a time and flavor. Drop half the size 
of an egg, about an inch apart, on Manilla paper. Place in moderate 
oven. As soon as they begin to look yellowish take them out. 

ELSIE BARMON. 
Meringues. 
Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Add 1 cup granulated sugar, tea- 
spoon at a time. Bake in a very slow oven. 

MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Browned Almond Cookies. 
Beat together two pounds brown sugar and 6 eggs. Add 1 teaspoon 
allspice, 1 teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 3 sticks chocolate 
grated, 1 pound almonds cut fine, 15 cents citron cut fine, flour to 
thicken so you can roll it, using 4 teaspoons baking powder. Blanch 
some almonds and put half a one on top of each cake. When baked, 
have whites of 2 eggs beaten with little sugar and spread on top after 
they are taken from oven. Cut into diamond shape. 
MRS. M. BUCHMAN, Oakland. 

Seattle may justly boast of the handsomest theatre in the country — 
The Moore. 



150 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Pfeffer-nusse. 

One pound flour, 1 pound sugar, 4 eggs, 2 ounces candied lemon 
peel cut fine, 1 nutmeg ground, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Beat eggs and sugar together, add 
spices and baking powder and beat thoroughly. Add flour, mix and 
knead on a board. Shape the dough into small balls and bake in slow 
oven on buttered tins. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Peanut Wafers. 

Shell, skin and chop fine 2 quarts peanuts. Beat to a cream 1 cup 
sugar and y 2 cup butter. Add % cup milk, 2 cups of sifted flour, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 eggs. Butter a tin bak- 
ing sheet and spread the dough over it in a thin layer, using a knife or 
spatula. Sprinkle thickly with nuts and bake. As soon as removed 
from oven, cut in squares and take from tin. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Walnut Wafers. 

Beat yolks of 5 eggs very light, 1 cup brown sugar, y 2 cup New 
Orleans molasses, y 2 cup butter, 1 cup sifted flour, 1 cup chopped 
walnuts. Mix butter and sugar. Add molasses, flour, eggs, nuts. Drop 
on buttered pans. Bake in moderate oven. 

BELLE BLUM, San Francisco. 

Walnut Wafers No. 2. 

Two eggs well beaten with 1 cup brown sugar, pinch salt, 3 table- 
spoons of flour, 1 cup chopped walnuts. Quick oven. y 2 walnut on 
each wafer when ready to bake. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Rocks. 
iy 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs beaten separately, 2y 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm water, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, y 2 pound raisins, y 2 pound currants, 1 pound nut meats (wal- 
nuts). Drop by heaping teaspoonfuls on greased tins. 

MRS. L. GOTTSTEIN. 
Wiebaden Nut Cake. 
One-quarter pound of butter stirred in a speck of potash and y 2 pound 
of sugar. Then add 1 teaspoon of cinnamon, 2 whole eggs and the 
yellow of another egg, and 1 pound of flour. Put dough on board, roll 
and cut in long narrow strips. Then take the remaining white of 
egg and spread it on top of the cake and add chopped nuts. Bake a 
light brown. MRS. MANNIE COHEN. 

Nut Drops. 
One cup chopped nuts, 2 cups powdered sugar, 3 or 4 whites of 
eggs; beat sugar and whites together and steam same. Put nuts in 
after whites of eggs and sugar have been steamed. Drop in buttered 
pan. MRS. E. MARX. 



■LIANCEISS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



COOKIES 151 



Lebknuchen. 

Four eggs, 2 cups brown sugar, % teaspoon cloves, % teaspoon all- 
spice, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup chopped almonds and 1 cup citron, 4 
tablespoons chocolate, 2 tablespoons molasses, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. Frosting — 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons chocolate, % 
teaspoon vanilla with little water. Boil until it threads. Bake in 
square pan. Pour over frosting and cut into squares when cool. 

MRS. A. KAUFMAN. 

German White Leb Kuchen. 
Five eggs, 1 pound pulverized sugar, stir together for y 2 hour, *4 
pound citron and orange peel cut fine, % pound blanched almonds 
ground fine, y 2 lemon rind grated, y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon 
pulverized ammonia, 1 pound sifted flour. Do not roll too thin; cut 
square and let stand in pans over night. Bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. L. GOTTSTEIN. 
Hermit Cookies. 
Two cups brown sugar, 2 cups butter, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup 
currants, 1 cup walnuts, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon allspice, 4 cups flour, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, dissolved in 3 tablespoons whisky. Drop from a teaspoon. 

MRS. SAM BROWN. 
Hermits. 
One cup butter, 1 cup granulated sugar creamed together and add 3 
eggs unbeaten, 1 cup raisins and 1 cup nuts cut fine, 1-3 cup citron 
cut fine. Mix one teaspoonful ground cloves and 1 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon with nuts (marmalade, preserves, cherries, etc., if handy), then 
flour well, add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 1 scant teaspoonful soda with 

1 teaspoonful of hot water. Add enough flour to make very stiff. Put 
in well-greased pans. Drop the size of half-dollar 

MRS. L. GOTTSTEIN. 
Date Cookies. 
Whites of four eggs beaten with 1 cup powdered sugar until stiff 
enough to drop from a spoon, then add 1 pound dates, and 1 pound 
walnuts chopped fine, flavoring with vanilla. Bake in a hot oven until 
brown. MRS. ABRAMS. 

Oat Meal Cookies. 
Two cups rolled oats, 1 cup flour, 1 big cup brown sugar, y 2 cup but- 
ter, and y 2 cup boiling water. Mix and let stand 1 hour, then add y 2 
teaspoon baking soda, dissolved in a little water, y 2 cup raisins, y 2 cup 
chopped nuts. Drop from a spoon. MRS. L. M. STERN. 

Chocolate Fudge Cookies. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs (beat whites separately), 

2 squares Baker's chocolate (melted), % cup flour. Sprinkle chopped 
nuts on top before baking. Bake in a square buttered pan and cut in 
squares or diamonds before removing from the pan. 

If you want your printing- done well and cheaply, go to Lowman & 
Hanford. 



w 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Chocolate Cookies. 
Whites of 3 eggs beaten to snow, % cup powdered sugar, 1 cup 
ground sweet chocolate, 1 cup chopped walnuts (not too small), 3 
tablespoonfuls flour. Drop in pan. 

Chocolate Cookies — No. 2 

Whites 4 eggs, 1 cup powdered sugar, beaten well for 15 minutes; 

1 cup ground chocolate, 1 cup chopped walnuts. Drop from spoon and 
bake in slow oven. MRS. MAX SCHUBACH. 

Chocolate Sticks. 

Three sticks grated chocolate, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoon- 

ful cloves, 1 teaspoonful allspice, 1 teaspoonful syrup, 1 cup brown 

sugar, 1 cup white sugar, vanilla to taste, 1 tablespoonful butter. 

When mixed put in 3 eggs, 1 tea cup chopped almonds, 3 cups flour, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. Mix well; it will be soft. Butter pan, put 
in about the thickness of your finger, bake in moderate oven and 
when baked cut in sticks the size you want. MRS. H. PICKARD. 

Chocolate Sticks — No. 2. 
One-half cup powdered sugar, y 2 cup grated almonds, 1 cake sweet 
chocolate, juice from 1 lemon, 1 egg and one yolk. Mix and roll on 
floured board. Beat one white and thicken with powdered sugar; add to 
the above. Cut into strips and bake on oiled paper. 

MRS. JACOB R. HILLER. 
Cinnamon Stars. 
Beat the whites of 6 eggs stiff, add 1 pound of confectioner's sugar, 
the grated rind of 1 lemon and beat again for 15 minutes (always 
one way). Then add 1-8 of an ounce of ground cinnamon (take out 3 or 
4 tablespoons of this mixture for the icing). Add 1 pound of grated 
almonds, and mix the whole well together. Flour your board well, and 
put the dough on that and dust a little flour on top so you can roll 
them out well — not too thin — and cut with star cutter, putting the 
icing on top. Bake in a moderate oven slowly. 

MRS. S. BAUM, Portland, Ore. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 
Three whites of eggs beaten stiff with 1 cup sugar and enough 
chocolate to darken. Put on stove and stir until melted, putting enough 
cocoanut in to stiffen a little. Add vanilla. Bake on buttered tins. 

MRS. W. H. HAHLO. 
Cocoanut Kisses. 
One cup sugar, 2 cups cocoanut (bulk cocoanut), 4 whites of eggs. 
Beat eggs till stiff, then add sugar and next cocoanut. Bake in very 
slow oven about 40 minutes. Bake on buttered paper. 

MRS. MANNIE COHEN. 



■LIANCE'v'SS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



COOKIES 153 



Cocoanut Kisses — No. 2. 

One-half cup granulated sugar, whites of 2 eggs beaten, y 2 pound 
shredded cocoanut. Mix all together and drop from teaspoon. Bake 
light brown. CARRIE KOCH. 

Cocoanut Hills. 

One and one-half cupfuls sugar and about % of cup of water. Boil 
until it strings. Add this to 1 pound of bulk cocoanut, then add the 
beaten whites of 5 eggs, flavor with vanilla and bake in slow oven. 
Drop from teaspoon. MRS. L. ABRAMS. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 
Mix 1 pound of sugar with the white of 6 eggs, beat until very light, 
add 1 pound of shredded cocoanut, drop on pan the size of a 50-cent 
piece, sprinkle with more cocoanut and bake until brown. 

MRS. H. W. FRIEDLANDER. 

Marguerites or Tea Biscuits. 

Small salted wafers; spread jelly on thick; make meringue of 
whites of eggs, add chopped walnuts and bake to light brown. 

CARRIE A. FORTLOUIS. 

Snow Flakes. 
Make a noodle dough of 2 eggs, add to it some whisky, a little 
sugar, and salt; roll as thin as possible, cut in diagonal strips about 3 
inches wide and about 4 inches long. Drop into deep chicken fat and 
cook quickly. Then let cool on brown paper and sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon. MRS. A. E. WILZEN. 

Honey Cakes. 

Two tablespoons butter, 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup honey, 1 cup 
milk, 3 heaping cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder and 6 eggs 
(reserve whites of two for icing), 1 pound dates y± pound almonds, % 
pound seeded raisins, 15-cent cake sweet chocolate grated, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon each of allspice and cloves. Bake in regular 
baking pans, then cut in small squares and ice. 

MRS. D. KOCH. 

How to Make Two Cakes at One Time. 
Have a long cake tin divided in the middle. When baking the 
cake, put half the quantity in one end of the tin. Add to the remainder 
ppices, raisins, chopped nuts, etc., according to taste, and put in the 
other end of tin. This saves time in making and baking, and the result 
is two kinds of cake. If the family be small, there is less likelihood 
of having dry cake on hand, as would be the case with a large one. 



Fortunate is he who has a bank account in the Fugret Sound National 
Bank. 



154 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



GEORGE J. TURRELL 



WALTER E. TURRELL 



Sunset Main 1245 
Independent 4362 



TURRELL 
SHOE CO. 



903 SECOND AVENUE 

BURKE BUILDING 
SEATTLE 



Gut Flowers 



FOR 



Weddings 
Funerals, Etc, 



WOODLAND SEED 
& FLORAL CO. 



810 Second Ave. 



Best Assortment 



Main 3880 PHONE Ind. 301 



THE HABIT OF COOKING 
THE HABIT OF SAVING - 

HOW ESSENTIAL TO HEALTH AND SUCCESS 

AMERICAN SAVINGS BANK 

AND TRUST COMPANY 

Solicits you to acquire the Savings habit by 
opening an account with it. 4% paid on 
Savings accounts. 

In our own modern fire proof building we 
have installed the finest Safe Deposit Vault 
in the West. Inspection solicited. 



J. A. Murray, President 
Harry Welty, Secretary 



J. P. Gleason, Ma?iager 
M. M. Murray, Cashier 



: BREAD AND BREAKFAST FOODS 155 



Bread and Breakfast Foods 



The more thoroughly bread is kneaded, the whiter and finer the 
texture. Turn the dough constantly, so that every portion is thoroughly 
worked. Knead until it is light and elastic to the touch. Allow it to 
riso to twice its bulk. If bread has become sour by being allowed to 
rise too long, a little soda mixed with warm water and carefully added 
to the dough will help correct the sourness. 

A few mealy potatoes mashed and added to bread sponge will 
make bread lighter and keep fresh longer. Do not allow bread sponge 
to become either chilled or overhea + ed ; but if possible keep at a tem- 
perature of 75. 

More time will be required for bread to rise in cold weather than in 
warm. 

In cold weather cover bread pan with a heavy blanket. 

Bread is lighter if pressed back into the pan and allowed to rise a 
second time. Bake in hot oven, about three-quarters of an hour for 
medium-sized loaves. 

In making baking powder biscuits, etc., do not knead the dough, and 
mix as soft as possible to handle. 

In cooking cereals, add a teaspoonful salt to a cupful of water. 
Cook in double boiler; the longer, the better the flavor and the more di- 
gestible. What is left over of the cereal may be reheated the next 
day or cut into slices, floured and fried. 

In making fritters the ingredients should be put together as 
quickly as possible, and then all beaten thoroughly; add whites of eggs 
last. Clarified drippings, lard or butter, or any two mixed, may be 
used for frying. 

Fritters will be lighter if no sugar be added to the batter. 

Fresh eggs are heavier than stale eggs. If they float in water they 
are not fresh. Eggs are more wholesome when cooked just under the 
boiling point. 

Biscuit, bread or cake that is stale can be freshened by dipping 
for an instant into cold water, then placing in the oven for 10 or 15 
minutes. Use immediately. 

For your kitchen you need the best Cutlery. "Colonial" is the only 
reliable ware. 



156 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Buckwheat cakes made with yeast should not be stirred after 
they have risen. 

If griddle cakes stick to the griddle, sprinkle on salt, and rub with 
a coarse cloth before greasing. 

Potato Yeast. 
Two tablespoons salt, two tablespoons sugar, three tablespoons 
flour; mix and scald with one pint boiling water. When cool add two 
yeast cakes, softened in a little lukewarm water; place in a warm cor- 
ner and let rise till light and frothy. If prepared in the morning will 
be ready early in the evening, or if set in the evening will be ready next 
morning. When ready, boil 12 potatoes, drain and mash fine; add one 
quart boiling water, one quart cold water and let cool. Then add the 
prepared yeast. Let rise in a warm place till very light and frothy. 
Then set away in a cool place and use as needed. Will keep till used 
up. Can be used for anything that ordinarily calls for yeast. 

Proportions for four large loaves of bread: Three cups yeast, two 
cups warm water, one tablespoon sugar, one scant tablespoon salt; mix 
and add exactly three times as much ffour as liquid. Knead and let 
rise in warm place two hours. Knead down and mold into loaves and 
let rise three-quarters of an hour — not longer. Bake in moderate 
oven. MRS. N. DEGGINGER. 

Home Made Yeast. 
Boil eight potatoes and mash fine; save one pint boiling potato 
water. Pour over five tablespoons flour, three tablespoons sugar, one 
tablespoon salt; add two quarts cold water and one pint boiling wa- 
ter. Add two cakes Magic Yeast or Yeast Foam, which has been soaking 
while potatoes were boiling. Use one cup yeast for each loaf. When 
setting bread add one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon salt, one table- 
spoon shortening. MRS. F. BORIES. 
Corn Bread No. 1. 
One pint corn meal, two heaping tablespoonfuls flour, two table- 
spoonfuls sugar, two large teaspoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful 
salt, butter size of egg, one pint sweet milk, one egg. 

MRS. MARTIN JACKSON, Los Angeles. 

Corn Bread No. 2. 

One cup corn meal, 1 cup white flour, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, 2 teaspoons sugar, pinch of salt, iy 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Mix with milk to the consistency of sponge cake. Bake in shallow tin 
and cut in squares before removing. 

MRS. PAULINE JOSEPH. 



RELIANCE 33KE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST FOODS 157 



Boston Brown Bread. 
Two cups corn meal, 2 cups graham flour, 1 cup white flour, pinch 
of salt, 1 cup molasses, 3 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda. Steam four 
hours. MRS. E. L. ALLENBERG. 

Nut Bread No. 1. 

Half cup molasses, y 2 cup sour milk, y 2 cup brown sugar, y 2 tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in the sour milk, y 2 cup chopped nuts, 2 cups flour 
— 1 graham, 1 whole wheat. Bake 45 minutes. 

MRS. PAUL BERKMAN. 
Nut Bread No. 2. 

One cup milk, 1 cup water, 1 cake compressed yeast, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 3 cups whole wheat flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon shorten- 
ing, iy 2 cups walnuts cut fine; more flour to mix stiff. Put milk, water, 
sugar and yeast, crumbled, into a bowl, cover and let stand until yeast 
floats on the surface; then beat in flour, salt and shortening. Beat 
well for 8 to 10 minutes, because this bread has no kneading. When 
the sponge or batter is beaten light, work in as much flour as possible 
with the spoon, but do not make the dough quite stiff enough to knead. 
Let rise until double in bulk, then add the nuts and (if liked) two table- 
spoons sugar. Fill dough into loaf pans and let rise again; then bake 
in hot oven until brown, after which reduce heat to finish baking. 

MRS. L. NATHAN. 
Biscuits. 

Sift flour before measuring; fill four cups with a spoon, a heaping 
tablespoonful of butter, an even teaspoonful of salt, 2 heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder; mix all thoroughly with the hands. Then 
half beat to froth a couple of whites of eggs; pour into this iy± cups of 
milk; mix this all together with a broad knife or spoon and roll out, not 
too thick. Cut with a biscuit cutter; spread each one with plenty of 
melted butter, fold over, place in sheet pan and bake in quick oven. 
Brush over yolks of egg when coming out of oven. 

MRS. M. WILZINSKI. 
Baking Powder Rolls. 

Two cups flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, y 2 
cup butter, enough milk to mix to the consistency of biscuit dough. 
Handle as little as possible. Roll out until about an inch thick. 
Sprinkle over this 1 cup chopped wallnuts, 1 cup raisins, bits of butter 
and about half cup of sugar. Roll up and cut in slices about iy 2 inches 
thick. Bake in a quick oven. SADIE BARASH. 

Poppy Seed Rolls. 

This will make forty small ones: One cake compressed yeast, 2 
eggs, 1 quart milk, y 2 cup sugar, salt to taste. Make sponge and let 
rise; make dough as soft as you can handle. Work several times; 
braid in small loaves and let rise; then put egg and poppy seed on top 
and bake. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Is your pocket knife a "Colonial" make? If not, no wonder it is a 
disappointment. 



153 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Astor House Rolls. 

One pint of sweet milk scalded. While still warm, put in a lump 
of butter the size of an egg, two tablespoons sugar, little salt, half cake 
of compressed yeast. Add to flour. When light, mould for 15 minutes, 
and cut into round cakes; spreach each half with butter and fold 
over on the other half. Put in pans, and when light bake in a 
quick oven. MRS. H. ELSTER. 

German Toast. 
Slices of stale bread dipped in milk to soften; then dip into beaten 
egg with a little cinnamon in. Fry in hot butter; serve with powdered 
sugar or jelly. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Milk Toast. 
Toast slices of white bread and butter them. Put 2 cups of milk in 
saucepan, thicken with iy 2 teaspoons corn starch, add little salt, cin- 
namon and sugar to taste. Boil up and pour over toast. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Left-Over Mush. 

Cold cooked cream of wheat or farina, fried in butter and served 
with syrup makes a very palatable dish. 

Graham Gems. 
To one quart of water add three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; add 
enough graham flour to make a stiff batter. Beat all very hard. Bake 
in a hot oven. 

Pop Overs. 

Two eggs, 2 cups of flour, 2 cups of milk, pinch of salt; mix and 
bake in quick oven. 



MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 



Quick Waffles. 
Two pints of sweet milk, 1 cup of butter (melted), sift flour to 
make a soft batter; add the well beaten yolks of 6 eggs, then the beaten 
whites, and lastly (just before baking), 4 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, beating very hard and fast for a few minutes. 

MRS. E. L. ALLENBERG. 

Waffles. 

Two cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 yolks 
beat well (add whites last), 1 teaspoon butter, about iy 2 or 2 cups milk. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Iron Cakes. 

One cup of milk, 1 cup of flour, 2 eggs, pinch of salt, fried in fat. 

MRS. N. ECKSTEIN. 



•LIANCE^SE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST FOODS 159 

Rice Griddle Cakes. 

One-half cup rice boiled until tender. When cold, mix with 1 quart 
milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 2 cups of flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, little salt. Beat whites of eggs and add last. Bake on hot 
greased griddle. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Griddle Cakes. 

The griddle must be hot and thoroughly greased. Two cups flour, 
1 teaspoon molasses if desired, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 eggs well 
beaten, y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 pint milk. Mix dry ingredients and sift. 
Beat the eggs, add to milk and stir the two mixtures to a smooth batter. 
Pour the cakes on the hot griddle from the end of a large spoon. When 
the cakes are full of bubbles, turn with a broad knife and brown the 
other side. 

Matzo Pancakes. 

Eight eggs beaten separately, y 2 cup matzo flour, 1 lemon, juice 
and rind, y 2 teaspoon salt, sugar to taste, add 6 cold boiled potatoes 
grated. Mix batter evenly, and lastly add beaten whites of eggs. Fry 
in small cakes in hot goose fat or butter. Serve with sweet prunes. 

German Pancakes. 
Two eggs, 1 tablespoon powdered sugar, y 2 teaspoon baking pow- 
der mixed with y± cup flour, y 2 teaspoon vanilla. Add beaten whites. 

MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Soaked Wheat Bread Pancakes. 
Soak wheat bread until soft in cold water. Squeeze out well and 
mash fine with milk. Add a few eggs, very little flour, salt and sugar 
to taste. Make a thin batter to pour from a pitcher. Fry in hot butter 
in thin cakes. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
Heat a pint of water, add y 2 pint of buckwheat flour and a teacup 
of yeast, and let it stand for several hours to sponge. Then add a 
couple of spoonfuls of melted lard, the same quantity of syrup, a little 
salt and mix thoroughly. Make into thin cakes and bake on a hot 
griddle. MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 

Cornmeal Muffins. 

Cream % a cup of butter, add y 2 cup of sugar, then 2 eggs beaten 
without separating until light colored and thick. Into this stir alter- 
nately 1 cup of milk, 2 cups of sifted flour and 1 cup of cornmeal sifted, 
with 4 level teaspoonfuls of baking power and a little salt. Beat thor- 
oughly. Bake 20 minutes in hot greased gem pans. 

Bran Muffins. 

One cup of bran, 1 cup white flour, 1 egg beaten a little, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 2 tablespoons molasses, salt, 1 level teaspoon soda, y 2 
cups of milk, scalded. This recipe makes 1 dozen muffins. Acme bran 
comes in cartons. MRS. PAUL BERKMAN. 

See that your dealer buys his liquors from M. & K. Gottstein. You will 
never have cause to complain if you do. 



160 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Muffins. 
One cup milk, 1 of flour, teaspoon sugar, 2 eggs, a little salt. Beat 
all till light and smooth. Pour in hot gem pans and bake 20 minutes. 

Rice Muffins. 

Two eggs well beaten, 1 cup cooked rice, 2 cups milk, 2 cups flour, 
little salt and little sugar. Quick oven. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Muffins — French Style. 
Dissolve a medium-sized cake of yeast in warm water, put 1 ounce 
of butter into a saucepan with % pint of milk, and warm. Beat 4 eggs 
until they are frothy. Then stir them in with the milk. Mix the yeast 
with the eggs and milk and stir in gradually over quart of flour. Butter 
or lard some muffin rings, and set them on a greased baking dish. Pour 
"some of the batter into each and set them in a warm place to rise. 
When well risen bake the muffins lightly in a moderate oven. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 



•LIANCE^SbTS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



APPETIZERS 161 



Appetizers 



Salted Almonds. 

Pour boiling water over shelled almonds, allow them to stand until 
the skins will slip off easily. Drain at once and skin quickly. Put 
olive oil in a shallow pan, get hot; drop in almonds; shake often and 
brown slightly, then salt. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Hand Cheese. 

Buy skim milk and let sour. Pour off water through a bag. Mix 
curd with salt and caraway seed and thick cream and let stand. Make 
into cheese cakes. Put into crocks and wash off every few days with 
beer until they are done. MRS. H. UHLPELDER. 

Grape Fruit. 

With a sharp knife separate the pulp from the skin, and also 
make several incisions in the center, so that the fruit may be easily 
removed. Pour sherry wine over it, and sugar plentifully, placing on 
ice for an hour before serving. MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Watermelon and Canteloupe Balls. 
Cut the canteloupe and watermelon into small balls with potato 
cutter (used for duchesse potatoes). Put on ice. When ready to 
serve place in fancy glasses, pour champagne or cider or other sweet 
wine over same, and serve before luncheon or dinner. 

CARRIE A. FORTLOUIS. 

Sweetbread Cocktail. 
Soak a pair of sweetbreads in cold water one hour; strain; put 
in salted boiling water and cook slowly twenty or thirty minutes until 
tender. Drain, plunge into cold water, and when cold cut or break into 
pieces the size of small oysters. Put four or five pieces in glass and 
cover with oyster cocktail sauce. 

Merry Widow Cocktail. 
Take meat of crab legs with asparagus tips and add to this mayon- 
naise; put this mixture into individual sherbet glasses, surrounded by 
cracked ice. MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 

Crab Cocktail. 
Add to the meat of two crabs a sauce made of tomato catsup, salt, 
pepper, oyster cocktail sauce, a little Worcestershire sauce and lemon 
juice. Serve in individual cocktail glasses surrounded by cracked ice. 
Shrimps may be served the same way. JULIET ARONSON. 

Crab Leg and Lettuce. 
Take the meat of the crab legs only; put on bed of lettuce and 
serve with nice French dressing. MRS. F. ROTHCHILD. 

Does your husband bank with the Pug-et Sound National Bank? 



162 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Oyster Cocktail. 
Drain oysters, add salt, pepper, lemon juice, oyster cocktail sauce, 
tomato catsup, little of the juice and half the quantity of picked shrimps. 
Serve in glass cups set in ice. MRS. S. AROXSOX. 

Anchovy Toast. 
Have ready slices of buttered toast spread with anchovies; keep 
hot. Put into pan 1 tablespoon butter with which mix 1 teaspoon 
dry mustard, 2 tablespoons tomato sauce, 1 teaspoon mushroom sauce. 
As soon as thoroughly mixed add 4 hard boiled eggs cut into slices and a 
little salt and cayenne. When hot pour over anchovy toast. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Caviar Toast. 
Place in saucepan contents of small can of caviar, add 1 tablespoon 
of cream; heat through, stirring constantly, and pour over hot buttered 
toast. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Ham Toast. 
Chop cold boiled ham fine and place on buttered toast, and put 
in oven. Beat up 6 eggs with 6 tablespoons of milk, salt and pepper. 
Pour into saucepan with lump of butter and stir until thick. Pour 
over ham and toast and serve hot. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Sardine Toast. 
Make paste of one can of sardines, using the oil in the can, juice 
of a lemon, paprika, salt and cream to moisten. Spread between slices 
of white bread buttered, press firmly together and toast a light brown. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Caviar Crackers. 
Spread thin crackers with butter, then with caviar, few drops of 
lemon juice and little finely minced egg. MRS. S. ARONSON. 



Baked Oysters on Ham. 
Cut brown bread into thin slices and toast. Cover each piece 
with a thin slice of cold boiled ham, and arrange over the top raw 
oysters seasoned with salt and pepper. Dot with butter and bake in 
hot oven until oysters are plump. Garnish with parsley. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Seattle Cheese Straws. 
Roll some puff paste thin, sprinkle with grated cheese; fold, roll 
out; sprinkle agava; repeat the process and place on ice to harden. 
When cold roll out into long narrow strips one-eighth of an inch thick. 
Glaze each one with milk or yolk of an egg and bake. 

MRS. W. ROSENBLATT. 



reliance ma 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



APPETIZERS m 

Salted Almonds. 



Blanche the almonds and thoroughly dry the day before using 
Put a large piece of butter in a baking pan, and when very hot drop 
in the almonds. Put in the oven and stir often until they are a golden 
brown. Remove from the oven and throw on brown paper to dry 
sprinkling them with salt. MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN 



See that your dealer buys his liquors from M. & X. Gottstein You will 
never have cause to complain if you do. 



164 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



THE MOORE THEATRE,™" ™«j;j« Seattle, Wash 




LOBBY OF MOORE THEATRE 



Butler Hotel 

The Leading Hotel of Seattle. 

Butler Cafe 

The Epicurean Resort of the Pacific 
Coast. 



SANDWICHES 165 



Sandwiches 



Sandwiches when nicely made are very appetizing. They are in- 
dispensable at picnics, luncheons, teas, etc. White, graham, brown 
bread or rolls may be converted into sandwiches. There is scarcely 
any limit to their filling, for eggs, meat, fowl, fish, fruit, salads, jams, 
cheese and chopped nuts may all be used, according to individual 
taste. The materials used should be sliced or minced as fine as pos- 
sible. Butter should be of the best quality and used sparingly. When 
sandwiches are made a few hours before they are to be used pile on 
dish and cover with a damp nakpin. They will retain their freshness. 

A Few Sandwiches. 
Lettuce leaves with mayonnaise; chopped olives mixed with mayon- 
naise; the yolks of hard boiled eggs, mixed with butter and chopped 
cheese; chopped olives and cottage cheese; any salad. Place any of 
these between slices of buttered bread, rye or white. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 
One pound cheese, one teaspoon raw mustard, one yolk of egg, salt 
and red pepper to taste, three tablespoons vinegar, one table- 
spoon sweet oil, one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. Cream all to- 
gether with a fork and spread on bread or crackers. 

MRS. I. E. MOSES. 

Cheese Paste for Sandwiches. 
One pound soft New York cheese, run through meat grinder. Mash 
with back of spoon; add salt, paprika, juice of a lemon, half teaspoon 
dry mustard, Worcestershire sauce, three tablespoons cream. Mash 
smoothly and spread between thin slices of buttered bread; then 
toast the sandwiches. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Cheese and Sherry for Sandwiches. 
Half pound mild American cream cheese, put through ricer; add 
butter size of a walnut, creaming butter first; paprika, little salt, and 
moisten all with sherry wine to the consistency of paste. 

MRS. PAUL BERKMAN. 

Sweetbread Sandwiches. 
Soak sweetbreads in cold water, drain, cook in boiling salted water 
from 20 to 30 minutes until tender. Drain, plunge into cold water, 
and when cold chop fine. Mix with mayonnaise dressing and spread 
between bread for sandwiches. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

A little cold chicken, and some g-ood bread and butter — a dill pickle 
and a glass of Independent Beer — isn't that a good appetizer? 



166 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Deviled Egg Sandwiches. 
Mash yolks of hard boiled eggs to a powder and moisten with 
melted butter and lemon juice. Work to a paste; add salt, pepper, 
French mustard to taste, a little Panyan sauce; then add the whites 
of the eggs, chopped very finely, and a few pimolas chopped finely. 
Spread between slices of bread, graham preferred. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Egg Sandwich. 
Take two hard boiled eggs, mashing to a paste the yolks only. Mix 
with butter, onion juice, salt, pepper and a little mayonnaise. Spread 
on round pieces of bread; put chopped whites of eggs on the outside. 

MRS. E. MICHAEL, Spokane. 

Chicken Toast. 
Cut bread into very thin slices, remove crusts, butter lightly and 
between two slices lay a thin slice of the breast of a chicken. Press 
slices firmly together and put in oven until toasted a light brown. 
Serve at once. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Chicken and Nut Sandwiches. 
Mince white meat of roast chicken fine, add half a can chopped 
mushrooms, and half a cup chopped walnuts. Add salt and pepper to 
taste and moisten with melted butter. Add few drops of lemon juice if 
desired. Spread between slices of white or rye bread. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Sandwiches — Pate de Foie Gras. 

Spread white bread with pate and cut in wide strips. Put three 
pieces of pimola on top and a row of chopped olives around outside. Cut 
bread round if preferred, instead of strips. 

MRS. E. MICHAEL, Spokane, Wash. 

Liver Pate. 

Cook calves liver in chicken fat and butter and a little water, to 
which slices of onion, a little parsley, a little celery, salt and pepper 
have been added. When tender run liver through meat grinder; add 
strained stock, which should be boiled down very short. Add also 
half an onion grated very fine, and some finely minced parsley. Mash all 
smooth with spoon and add two or three tablespoons of chicken or 
goose fat, salt and pepper to taste. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Scraped Meat Sandwich. 
Scrape raw beef, mix with salt and pepper, spread between two 
slices of bread and toast on toaster until heated through. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 



REUANCE39HE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. '- 



SANDWICHES 167 



Pimola Sandwiches. 
Chop the contents of a fifteen cent bottle of stuffed olives or 
pimolas. Chop two hard boiled eggs. Mix the foregoing with mayon- 
naise sauce and a little salt. Spread on buttered bread. 

MRS. A. COBLENTZ. 
Pimento Sandwich. 
Chop pimentoes, olives and celery, mix with mayonnaise and 
spread on lettuce leaf, and then put between slices of buttered white 
bread. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Caviar and Salmon Sandwiches. 

Take a piece of rye bread, cut round (with biscuit cutter) ; spread 
with mustard; put some caviar in center of the bread, strips of smoked 
salmon around the caviar, and strips of pickle around the salmon. 

MRS. E. MICHAEL, Spokane. 

Oyster Sandwiches. 
One pint oysters; put juice into pan and add oysters chopped; 
then add half cup cream and yolks of two eggs, and enough bread 
crumbs and get it quite thick. Heat well and add salt, pepper and lemon 
juice to taste. Let cool and spread on buttered bread. 

MRS. SAM BROWN. 
Sardellen Butter. 
Soak half pound sardellen bone and mash them; add two table- 
spoons Neuchatel cheese, two tablespoons sweet butter, a little grated 
onion and a pinch of cayenne. Serve on toast. 

Sardellen Toast. 

Butter slices of toast and spread with sardellen butter. Place on 
top a few fresh shrimps, or a few raw oysters, with slices of hard boiled 
egg. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Sardines on Toast. 

Remove skins from half a dozen sardines and mash them to a paste. 
Rub yolks of three hard boiled eggs and add to fish paste, with salt, a 
dash of cayenne and tablespoonful chopped parsley. Mix all well to- 
gether and serve on buttered toast. Stand in a hot oven and then 
serve immediately. MRS. WALLACE ROSENBLATT. 

Salmon Sandwiches. 
Free cold canned salmon from all skin and bone and shred finely 
with a silver fork. Add a little lemon juice, a little paprika and tomato 
catsup. Mix to a paste with melted butter. 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Jam and Cheese Toast. 
Mash a Neufchatel cheese until soft, adding two tablespoons or 
more of thick cream. Spread on buttered toast and then cover 
with strawberry jam. JULIET ARONSON. 

Is your pocket knife a "Colonial" make? If not, no wonder it is a 
disappointment. 



168 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Smoked Salmon Toast. 
Cut as many slices of bread as required, trim crusts, toast to deli- 
cate brown, butter them and lay on each slice a very thin piece of 
smoked salmon; sprinkle with pepper, cover with sheet of buttered 
paper, and place in brisk oven for few minutes. When very hot, arrange 
the pieces of toast on hot dish on which is spread a folded napkin. Gar- 
nish with parsley and serve. MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Shrimp Sandwiches. 
Pick half pint shrimps, put them in a mortar with two or three 
ounces butter, season with salt and cayenne pepper, and pound them 
to a paste; moisten it with a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Cut some 
rather thin slices of bread and butter, spread half of them with paste, 
fold the remaining half over these and press lightly together. Cut 
sandwiches into fingers or quarters; garnish with parsley and serve. 

MRS. WM. GOTTSTEIN. 

Club Sandwich. 
Toast thin slices of bread and butter lightly. Spread one piece with 
thin slice of ham fried well; spread the other with a thin slice of the 
white meat of turkey or chicken; place over this a crisp lettuce leaf 
and spread with mayonnaise. Put both slices of toast together, and 
garnish with slices of tomato and small pickles. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 



ILI ANCE3SKS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



BEVERAGES 169 



Beverages 



x'o make coffee use a heaping tablespoonful of coffee for each 
person and one over. Mix with the whole or part of an egg and pour 
enough cold water on to moisten it. Place in well scalded coffee pot, 
pour over boiling water (1 cupful for each person), and stop the spout 
of the coffee pot with a cloth, to prevent the flavor from escaping. 
Boil five minutes, and then set on back of stove to simmer five or ten 
minutes longer. Pour into the pot y 2 cupful of cold water and serve. 

Make tea with freshly boiled water in a freshly scalded tea pot, 
y 2 teaspoonful of tea to a cup of boiling water. Pour water over tea 
and cover tightly and let it infuse five to seven minutes. Tea should 
never boil. 

Strain strong tea, add lemon juice and sugar; also ice, for iced tea. 

Iced Coffee. 
Prepare a quart of coffee as for black coffee, and have also a quart 
of well heated milk, but not boiled, and pour the coffee and milk into 
an ice cream freezer. Sweeten with a little powdered sugar, cover the 
freezer and place it in a tub of ice and rock salt, a little higher than 
the pot of coffee. Then turn the handle of the cover in various direc- 
tions for five minutes, and serve in coffee glasses, with powdered 
sugar. MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Coffee Cognac. 
Make black coffee and half fill goblets with clear ice. Pour in coffee, 
add pony of cognac to each glass, mixing well with a spoon, then serve. 

Iced Tea — French Style. 
Place in tea pot 3 tablespoonfuls tea, pour over 2% quarts boiling 
water, steep and strain and turn into a freezer. Sweeten with 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, tightly cover the freezer, place it in a tub containing 
broken ice and salt a little higher than the height of the tea. Turn 
it sharply by the handle all round in different directions for five or 
six minutes. Wipe the cover of the freezer well to prevent any ice from 
falling in, and with the aid of a ladle pour it into a cold pitcher or jar. 
Send to the table in glasses with slices of lemon and sugar separately. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Russian Tea. 
Press the juice of a lemon and a wineglassful of brandy into your 
tea. Serve in glasses with powdered ice, and sweeten as you would 
iced tea. 

If you want a g-ood cup of Chocolate, you must use Ghirardelli's. 



170 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Flaxseed Tea. 
Take 1 tablespoonful flaxseed, wash thoroughly, and put it with 
1 cup cold water in a saucepan. Let it simer 1 or 2 hours. Strain. Add 
juice of one lemon and sugar or rock candy to taste. Serve hot. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Apple Water. 
Roast tart apples until soft, put into pitcher and pour cold water 
over and let stand an hour. Strain and sweeten if liked. Good for 
fever patients. Toast water is made the same way, using toast instead 
of apples. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Raisin Wine. 
Stem and cut 2 or 3 pounds of large sized raisins, % ounce 
stick cinnamon. Let soak in four quarts of water for six days. 
Simmer for four hours. When cold, filter and bottle. 

MRS. M. M. FREDERICK. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 
One pint vinegar to 3 pints berries, 1 pound crushed sugar. Let all 
stand two days, then boil 20 minutes, skim well, strain and when cool, 
bottle. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Raspberry Syrup. 

Ten boxes of raspberries, 15 glasses of water (measure this care- 
fully) ; 3 ounces of tartaric acid dissolved in this water, and pour 
same over the fruit. Let stand for 24 hours, and then squeeze through 
£* cloth. Then take 16 pounds of sugar, and boil all about 15 min- 
utes, or until same is thick enough for syrup. Skim this liquid well 
while it is boiling. To test the syrup put a little on a saucer and let 
it cool. MRS. S. ROSENBERG. 

Chocolate Syrup. 
Mix y 2 pound of scraped chocolate cake with 1 quart water. Add 
4 pounds loaf sugar, and stir over a slow fire until the chocolate is 
dissolved and the sugar syruped. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Sherry and Egg. 
To each glass of wine beat up the yolk of an egg and add sugar to 
taste. Add wine gradually and grated nutmeg. Beat white separately 
and mix. 

Egg Milk Punch. 
One egg, 3 teaspoonfuls fine sugar. Fill glass half full of ice. Add 
1 wineglass brandy and 2 tablespoonfuls St. Croix rum. Fill with milk, 
shake well and strain into large glass with grated nutmeg on top. 



:liance?se 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



BEVERAGES 171 



Egg Nogg. 
Stir y 2 cupful white sugar, yolks 6 eggs well beaten into 1 quart 
rich cream. Add y 2 pint brandy, flavor with nutmeg, and lastly add 
whites of the eggs well whipped. 

Egg Lemonade. 
Grate over the sugar the peel of y 2 the lemons you intend to use, 
and squeeze the lemons into it with a squeezer. Then beat up as many 
eggs as you intend glasses of lemonade. If you are making a quantity 
you may take one or two eggs less. Beat up the lemons and the 
sugar. Next add water in proportion, and then shake or beat the whole 
vigorously for a few seconds. Fill the tumblers half full of broken ice. 

MRS. ROSENBLATT. 
Grape Cordial. 
Mix y± cupful grape juice with sugar to taste. Add one teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice and % cupful cold water. A slice of orange or pine- 
apple may also be added. MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Claret Cup — Hot. 

Oi^e quart claret, 2 cups water, stick cinnamon, sugar to taste, juice 
of 2 lemons and of an orange. Let come to a boil and serve hot. 

MRS. S. ARONSON. 
Claret Cup. 
One quart claret, 1 cupful sugar, 1 pint sparkling Moselle, juice 
of 1 orange, 1 slice cucumber rind, 1 pint apollinaris. 

MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Mint and Lemon Cocktail. 

To 1 quart strong lemonade made from 4 lemons add 1 cupful 
cold tea, a few sprigs fresh mint and a tiny sprinkle red pepper. 
Sweeten to taste, pour over crushed ice and serve with a curl of lemon 
on top. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Mint Julep. 

Large thin julep glass. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful fine sugar in water, 
add 1 dash Maraschino, 1 glass whisky or brandy as preferred, 4 or 5 
sprigs mint, held to side of glass, leaves up. Fill up with fine ice and do 
not bruise the mint. Trim with fruits. If preferred, mint can be 
bruised, but above is regular Southern julep. 

Manhattan Cocktail. 

Use the following ingredients in the proportion given: 1-3 whis- 
key, 1-3 vermouth bitters, 1-3 water. Add a dash of Angostura, apri- 
cotine and orange bitters; also a slice of lemon peel. Sweeten to 
taste. 

Pineapple Cocktail. 

For each glass take a tablespoonful each of pineapple and lemon 
or orange juice, and y 2 tablespoonful grated orange peel. Sweeten 
to taste. Pour over a little chipped ice in the bottom of the glass 
and fill with iced water. 

For correct styles in cards, announcements and invitations at reasonable prices* 
call up the Merchants Printing Co.. Main 4134; Ind. 655. Times Building. 



172 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Cranberry Cocktail. 
Cook 3 pints cranberries in an equal quantity water ten minutes, 
or until berries are soft. Strain. Add juice of 3 oranges, 3 lemons 
and 3 cupfuls sugar. Freeze to a stiff mush or simply turn in with 
shaved ice. Serve in lemon cups, the edges of which have been cut in 
tiny points with scissors, then the skins chilled in the ice or in cold 
water. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

West Point Cocktail. 
Fill a glass with shaved ice. Add scant teaspoonful lemon juice, 
2 or 3 dashes of orange or dandelion bitters, and sugar or rock candy 
syrup to sweeten. Shake well, strain into cocktail glasses, put a twist 
of lemon peel on top and serve. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Ginger Ale Punch. 

In pint pitcher put 1 tablespoonful brandy, 1 tablespoonful pow- 
dered sugar, 1 well beaten egg. Fill pitcher half full of shaved ice. 
Then fill the pitcher with imported ginger ale. Stand few minutes 
and serve. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Fruit Punch. 

Juice of 12 lemons, juice of 8 oranges, 2y 2 cupfuls sugar boiled 
with 3 quarts water, and let cool; 1 quart bottle grenadine syrup, 1 
pint bottle raspberry syrup, 1 can grated pineapple, 1 bottle Maras- 
chino cherries, 4 oranges sliced thin. Place in punch bowl with large 
cake ice. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Champagne Punch. 

One pint Maraschino, 1 gallon white wine, 1 quart champagne, y 2 
pint cognac brandy, 1 dozen lemons, 2 quarts apollinaris. Sugar to 
taste. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Sherry Cobbler. 

30 pieces of cut sugar dissolved in 2 tumblerfuls of water. Squeeze 
4 lemons in another tumbler and remove all seeds. Squeeze juice of 
2 oranges in another tumbler and scrape pulp in the glass. Put the 
sweetened water into bowl, add lemon and stir thoroughly. Scrape the 
peel of a lemon over the mixture, add orange and stir rapidly. Add "a 
pint or more of sherry. Beat to fine snow some ice and drop into 
bowl. Cut a lemon in thin slices and two oranges in thicker slices. 

MRS. A. L. BARMON. 
Strawberry Sherbet. 

Crush a quart of ripe strawberries, pour a quart of water over 
them and add the juice of 2 lemons. Let this stand about two hours. 
Then strain over a pound of sugar, stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
and then set upon ice. You may add 1 tablespoonful of rose water. 
Serve with chopped ice. 



RELIANCE 33KE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



BEVERAGES 173 



Apricot Brandy. 

Mix y 2 pound sugar and a little water with every 2 dozen apricots 
used. Boil up and then remove and place in jars, and when cold fill 
up with brandy. Cover over securely and allow them to remain for 
several days, when they are ready for use. They may be carefully 
and thinly peeled before putting into the syrup, although this is not 
generally done. MRS. WILLIAM GOTTSTEIN. 

Blackberry Cordial. 
Squeeze blackberries enough to make a quart of juice. Add to it 
a pound of loaf sugar, and let dissolve, heating slowly. Add to it 1 
teaspoonful each cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg. Boil all together 20 
minutes. On removing from the fire, add a wineglassful of brandy. 
Put in bottles while hot and seal. Use a teaspoonful for a glass of 
iced water. MRS. WILLIAM G&TTSTEIN. 



Order Independent Beer and accept no other. 



174 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



OUR 



Ladies' Cloak $ Suit 

DEPARTMENT 

tJIs the coziest and best appointed de- 
partment of its kind in the Northwest. 

^JCourteous treatment and the greatest 
attention to the requirements of our Iff 
customers, s our policy. 

^[Exclusive assortments of Gowns, Suits* 
Coats, Waists and Skirts. 

J. Redelsheimer Sr Co. 

TWO EMTRJiXCES 
Columbia Street and First Jivenue 




ALBERT HANSEN 

JEWELER and 
SILVERSMITH 



Established 

1883 



FirsT: and 
Cherry 




OPTICAL DEPARTMENT 



Spectacles and Noseglasses accurately fitted by an 
Expert Eyesight Specialist. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 175 



Preserves and Jellies 



Fruit for jellies should be at their prime. If over-ripe, too much 
boiling will be required. Some fruits yield their juices more readily 
than others, but the general rule is a pound of sugar to a pint of juice. 
When cooking fruits of the nature of quince or crab apple, to obtain 
the juice add sufficient water to cover. A good rule is to boil the 
juice 15 to 20 minutes before adding sugar, which has previously been 
heated in the oven, then all boiled a very few minutes together. 

Currants and juicy berries are crushed and cooked without adding 
any water 

Jelly glasses should be kept standing in hot water, and when 
ready to fill wiped dry and filled while still hot. 

Too much boiling makes jelly hard or pasty. 

In making a large quantity of jelly it is better to divide into 
smaller quantities, cooking 2 or 3 quarts at a time, as the jelly will be 
finer, not having boiled too long to secure the necessary evaporation. 

A little may be tried in a small dish first. Do not squeeze through 
the jelly bag, as that makes cloudy jelly. Simply let it drip. 

When jelly is cold, cover with paraffine or with white paper wet 
with brandy. Should jelly not be quite firm enough, it should be allowed 
to stand in the open glasses a few days in the sun. 

Keep preserves in a cool, dark, dry place. 

The juice that is left in the jelly bag may be squeezed out after- 
ward and made into jelly the same way, but it will not be so clear. 

In making preserves, use only porcelain lined or granite kettles. 
Use granite or wooden spoons for stirring. 

Preserves should boil very gently to prevent burning. 

For preserves a good syrup is made in the proportion of y 2 pint of 
water to a pound of sugar. 

Use granulated sugar. If a very little lemon juice be added to 
strawberry or peach juice there will be no trouble in jellying. 

Preserved German Prunes. 
To a pound of fruit take y 2 pound sugar. Let sugar come to a boil 
in water, and pour over the fruit eight times. Then cook syrup till 
thick enough, put in fruit and let come to a boil. 

MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Por your kitchen you need the best Cutlery. "Colonial" is, the only 
reliable ware. 



176 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Spiced German Prunes. 

Wash the prunes, remove the stones, and in place of the stones 
put in almonds. Take the best wine vinegar, water and sugar to taste. 
Tie in a bag some whole cinnamon, cloves and allspice; boil together 
with vinegar. After boiling, let it get lukewarm. Then pour 
over the prunes. Let stand, and each day for nine days let vinegar 
come to a boil and pour over primes. The last day cook the vinegar 
down some, then put in prunes and let come to a boil. There should 
be sufficient liquid to cover them. Keep in stone or glass jar. Grapes 
(black ones) may be spiced the same way. 

MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 
Peach Preserves. 

Remove stones from peaches. Measure 1 pound sugar to 1 pound 
fruit. In preserving kettle put 1 layer sugar, then layer of fruit, until 
all is used. Add a few kernels of the peach stones, and let warm 
slowly until the sugar is melted. Boil slowly for half hour; then re- 
move peaches to a flat dish. Let the syrup boil 15 minutes longer. 
Place in jars % full of peaches, adding syrup to fill. 

MRS. MAX BORSTEIN. 

Brandied Peaches. 
Four pounds of fruit, 4 pounds of sugar, 1 pint of white brandy. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and enough water to dissolve it. Let this 
come to a boil. Put the fruit in and boil five minutes. Having removed 
the fruit carefully, let the syrup boil 15 minutes longer, or until it 
thickens well. Add the brandy and take the kettle at once from the 
fire. Pour the hot syrup over the fruit and seal. If after the fruit is 
taken out and put in jars a reddish liquor oozes from them, drain this 
off before adding the clear syrup. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. 
Boil sugar, vinegar and cinnamon 20 minutes. Dip peaches quickly 
in hot water, then rub off the fur with towel, stick each peach with 
clove. Put in syrup and cook until soft, using one-half of the peaches 
at a time. To y 2 peck peaches take 2 pounds brown sugar, 1 pint 
vinegar, 1 ounce stick cinnamon and cloves. MRS. R. LOBE. 

Bottled Green Gages. 
Select green gages that are not too ripe, make small holes all over 
them, put them in large bottle, fill them with thin syrup, cork and tie 
down. Place them in a saucepan of water, bring gently to a boil, and 
simmer until the fruit turns brown. Take from fire. Leave bottles 
in water for a day. Boil again for 10 minutes, and fruit is ready. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 



■1 lA^iPr CANNED FRUITS 
iLiANLC. VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 177 



Pickled Pineapple. 
Three pounds sugar, 6y 2 pounds prepared pineapples, 1 pint vine- 
gar, 1 ounce stick cinnamon, y 2 ounce cloves. Put the peeled and 
sliced fruit in a jar in layers with the spices, pour over the fruit the 
vinegar and sugar that has come to a boil. Let stand 24 hours. Pour 
off the juice and boil five minutes. Pour over again and let stand 24 
hours more. Then boil fruit and syrup y 2 hour gently and seal. 

MRS. D. KOCH. 
Tomato Jam. 
Skin tomatoes and drip over night. To iy 2 cup tomatoes take U 
cup sugar and cook to jam. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

German Prune Butter. 

Remove pits and wash prunes. To 1 pound fruit add % pound 

sugar and enough water to prevent burning. Do not stir, but remove 

from sides of pan occasionally. Let boil for hours. Place in bottles or 

glasses. Let cool, cover with paraffine. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Raspberry Jam. 

To 6 pounds berries add juice of 1 pound currants and % pound 
sugar to each pound fruit. Boil fruit 20 minutes, add sugar and boil 
just long enough to thoroughly dissolve. MRS. A. DINKELSPIEL. 

Cherry Jam. 
To 2 cups cherries add 1 cup sugar and cook till jam, having first 
removed the pits. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Candied Cranberries. 
Candied cranberries to take the place in cakes, confections or 
decorations of the more expensive cherries: Use for this purpose the 
Cape Cod berries, half as much sugar as berries, and half as much 
water as sugar. Put the berries in a deep agate or porcelain dish, pour 
the sugar on top like a crust and the water on top of that. Cook very 
slowly. When they break into a boil, cover just a few moments— not 
long or the skins will burst— then uncover and cook until tender Take 
up carefully and spread on oiled plates to dry. 

Strawberry Jam. 
Be careful to get best berries, not sandy ones. Pick berries weigh 
them, and to each pound of fruit take % pound granulated sugar. Boil 
together 20 minutes. Remove with skimmer all fruit. Boil juice to 
thick syrup, replace fruit and let come to a boil; then fill in glasses. 

MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 
Spiced Pears Wih Ginger. 
Peel and cut into small pieces 2 gallons Bartlett pears, not over- 
ripe. Arrange in a kettle with 5 pounds of sugar. Allow them to stand 
covered over night. In the morning place over slow fire, adding iv 2 
pounds crystalized ginger, 3 lemons sliced, 1 small cup vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoonful nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, y> dozen cloves. Cook until 
reduced one-fourth, and seal when cold. MRS. F. BORIES. 

No jewelers more reliable the world over than Lawrence I.. Moore & Co. 



178 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Quince Preserves. 
Peel and quarter quinces and boil tender in enough water to almost 
cover them. Remove fruit and spread on dish to cool. Add peeling and 
some of the cores to water. Stew until tender and strain through a bag. 
Take % cup sugar to 1 cup juice. Boil until a rich thick syrup. Put in 
fruit and boil a few minutes. Place in fruit jars. 

MRS. H. NEWBAUER, San Francisco. 

Watermelon Preserves. 
Cut the rind of the water melon and peel off the green outer skin 
and all inside pulp which is the least bit soft. Put in an earthen jar 
and cover with a strong brine. This must stand overnight. To every 
pound of fruit allow 1 pound sugar. Put sugar in preserving kettle, and 
to every 4 pounds sugar add 1 pint water. Let boil until thick and 
clear, and then drop in rind. Do not let cook until sticky. Add a 
few pieces of cinnamon bark and juice of 2 lemons. Boil until rind 
can be cut easily with a knife. MRS. S. A. ROSENFELD. 

Quince Honey. 
Seven large quinces grated, 7 cups sugar, 4 cups water. Boil syrup 
first, then add grated quinces. Boil slowly, 1 hour. 

MRS. DAVE LIPMAN. 

Apricot and Pineapple Jam. 
12 pounds apricots, 5 pounds pineapple, 9 pounds sugar. Peel and 
halve apricots. Peel and cut pineapple into small pieces. Put the 
fruit on to boil slowly for 1 hour, adding a little water, stirring often. 
Then add the sugar and let it all boil together for 15 minutes longer. 

MRS. M. PRAGER. 

Citrus Fruit Marmalade. 

Two grape fruits sliced very thin, 8 oranges sliced very thin, 3 

lemons sliced very thin. Soak 36 hours in 4 quarts of water. Boil 2 

hours. Dissolve 8 pounds sugar with water. Be careful it does not 

burn. Add fruit and boil until it jellies, then add 1 wineglassful brandy. 

MRS. L. GOTTSTEIN. 

Orange Marmalade. 
One dozen oranges, peeled very carefully. Scrape off all the white, 
cut the peel as fine as noodles. Put in dish and pour boiling water over 
twice, allowing water to remain on peel 10 minutes each time. Add the 
peel to pulp of orange, which should be cut in small pieces. Add pound 
of sugar to a pound of pulp and peel. Let stand over night. Cook in 
morning from 2 to 3 hours. Should be clear and thick and a light 
brown. Put in glasses. MRS. L. SCHWABACHER. 



:UANCE3SKS 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 179 



Orange Marmalade. 
Four oranges, 3 lemons, 11 glasses of water. Slice the oranges, 
also lemons, rind and all, in fine shreds, and grate the rind of 1 lemon. 
Add the water and let it stand 24 hours. Cook 1 hour. While hot, add 
8 cups sugar. Stir well and let stand 24 hours more. Then cook iy 2 
hours after comemncing to boil. Put in jars while hot. Don't cover 
until thoroughly cold. MRS. B. JACOBS. 

Orange Marmalade. 
Wipe, slice and cut 2 dozen small oranges. Cover with water at 
night. Pour off this water and renew water in the morning. In separ- 
ate dish wipe, slice and cut 8 lemons, and cover with water, renewing 
twice, first water remaining on over night, then seconrd water remain- 
ing on 2 hours in the morning. In morning when ready to finish drain 
off all lemon water and throw away. Add lemons to oranges with 
their water and cook % hour. Measure pulp and juice together and 
take cupful pulp to % cupful sugar and cook until jelly. Add blanched 
almonds just before ready to remove from fire. 

MRS. H. NEWBAUER, San Francisco. 

Currant and Raspberry Jelly. 
One box red raspberries to about 4 or 5 of currants. Just cover 
with water and cook until soft. Strain. Then for 1 cup of juice add 1 
cup sugar and boil 20 minutes. Never make more than 1 quart at a 
time. MRS. MAX SCHUBACH. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 
Wash, remove stems of crab apples, cover them with water, boil 
until very soft. Put in bag to drain over night. Measure juice; to 1 
cupful juice use 1 cupful sugar. Boil until jelly. 

MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Quince Jelly. 

Peel and cut quinces and with about half the cores and all the 

peeling, cover with water and boil until tender. Drain through a bag 

over night. Boil the juice 20 minutes, and measure. To 1 cupful juice 

add % cupful sugar and boil until jelly. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Cranberry Jelly. 
Cover cranberries with water and cook soft. Then strain and 
let juice boil without sugar 10 minutes. To each quart cranberries 
used add 2 cups granulated sugar and cook 15 minutes. Try if it will 
jelly. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Blackberry and Green Apple Jelly. 

12 boxes blackberries, 25 cents green apples cut up, 2 quarts water, 
let cook until apples are cooked to pieces. Strain through jelly bag. 
Measure juice and take 1 cupful of juice to 1 cupful of sugar. Heat 
sugar in oven while juice comes to a boil. Put both together and boil 
from 20 to 30 minutes. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Pioneer Brand Evaporated Milk is always fresh and sweet. Use it for 
cooking-. 



180 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Gooseberry and Strawberry Jelly. 
Take equal quantities of gooseberries and strawberries, very little 
water, let boil until berries are quite soft, strain through jelly bag. 
Measure cup for cup of sugar and juice. Heat sugar in oven while 
juice is coming to a boil. Then put together and boil 20 to 30 minutes, 
skimming until clear. MRS. S. ARONSON. 

Concord Grape Jelly. 

Set grapes on stove with very little water. Boil soft and press 
through bag. Take 1 pound sugar to 1 pound fruit and boil 25 or 30 
minutes or until jellied. MRS. MAX BORNSTEIN. 

Calf's Foot Jelly. 
Secure an unskinned calf's foot, cut it through the joints, chop the 
long bone and take away the fat, wash it well, place in a saucepan, cover 
with cold water and boil for 10 minutes. Strain off the water and 
wash again. Put in an enameled saucepan, cover with cold water and 
stew for 6 hours, skimming constantly. When done, drain the stock, 
allow it to get cold, skim off fat. In using jelly be careful not to mix 
the sediment with it. MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 



:UANCE%3KE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 181 



Pickles and Relishes 



Use only the best cider or vinegar. Boil pickles in porcelain 
lined, granite or stone vessels. A very small piece of alum added to 
vinegar when scalding pickles the first time renders them crisp and 
tender, but too much alum is injurious. Keep in a dry, cool place in 
glass or stoneware. If white specks appear in the vinegar, drain off 
and scald, adding a handful or two of sugar, pouring hot over pickles 
again. A little horseradish and a few cloves help to preserve the 
vinegar. If put away in a stone crock, put an inverted plate over the 
top and a heavy stone on the plate, to keep the pickles well covered 
with liquid. The brine for pickles should be strong enough to float 
an egg, about a pint of salt to a gallon of water. Before putting 
pickles in vinegar, they should be cold and perfectly dry. Pour vine- 
gar over, boiling hot, as raw vinegar does not keep well. Keep pickles 
from the air and have the vinegar at least two inches over the top of 
the pickles. Use only a wooden spoon. Pickles in open jars should 
be stirred occasionally, and the soft ones taken out, and the vinegar 
scalded and poured back hot. For dill pickles wash off and skim 
every five days. 

Piccalily. 

15 pounds tomatoes, 10 pounds cabbage, 3 bunches celery, 6 large 
green peppers, 6 large onions, 5 cents worth celery seed, 5 cents worth 
mustard seed. Chop fine and salt each separately over night. Squeeze 
out all the juice and mix. Pour enough boiling vinegar over to cover 
and let all come to a boil for 10 minutes. Seal in jars. 

MRS. L. M. STERN. 
Sour Pickles. 

Big yellow cucumbers. Peel, halve and scrape out the soft inside, 
and salt well over night. Dry and cut in pieces lengthwise. Put in jar, 
layer of cucumber, layer of whole white pepper, mustard seeds, few 
bay leaves and small onions. Take vinegar and a little sugar. Boil and 
pour over pickles. Let stand a couple of days and repeat the boiling 
three times. MRS. H. UHLPELDER. 

Small Vinegar Pickles. 

Put pickles in salt water over night. Take out and wipe dry. 
Place in Mason fruit jars and add 4 or 5 small white onions to each 
jar, 4 small dried red peppers, mustard seed and some whole white 
peppers. Place some dill on top and bottom of jar. Boil some white 
wine vinegar, to which has been added a tiny piece of alum. Pour 
over pickles and seal while hot. MRS. D. KOCH. 

There is some satisfaction in using- an evaporated cream that is re- 
liable. That is true of the Pioneer Brand. 



182 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Little Spice Pickles. 
Take little pickles, and make brine so egg will float on top. Put 
in pickles and let stand over night in the brine. Next day take out 
and put in cold water, dry well, then boil vinegar with cloves and 
mixed spices, and arrange pickles in jars with red-hot peppers. Add 1 
cup of brown sugar and some small onions, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt and 
2 of mustard seeds. Arrange in quart jars and fill up with cold 
vinegar. Make jars airtight. Can be used in two weeks. 

MRS. H. ELSTER. 

Mustard Pickles. 
To each gallon of vinegar take y 2 pound mustard, 1 tablespoonful 
ground ginger and 1 tablespoonful sweet oil, and 5 cents worth tu- 
meric. Let come to boil for 5 minutes. Take 300 small pickles, 2 heads 
cauliflower, 5 cents wax beans, 2 quarts small onions, 1 dozen pep- 
pers, and cut all fine. Put in strong brine for three days. Then pour off 
brine and put in the above mixture. MRS. D. KOCH. 

Baltimore Pickles. 

50 large cucumbers, 10 large onions, 25 cents tumeric powder, ^4 
pound mustard seed, % lb. whole peppers. Cut cucumbers in round 
slices % inch thick. Place in pan and salt them over night. In the morn- 
ing dry with a cloth and put them in a jar, alternating with layers 
of onions (cut in slices), and sprinkle over them the powder, peppers 
and mustard seed. Fill the jar with cold vinegar. Stir together salad 
oil, Colman's mustard and a little cayenne pepper into a thick paste, 
and spread this over the top of the pickles before putting on the 
cover of the jar. Place them away for six weeks, and then stir with 
a wooden spoon. They are then ready for use. 

MRS. J. GOLDSMITH. 

Dill Pickles. 

Wash pickles well, then pack tightly in % gallon Mason jars, put- 
ting dill in bottom and top of jar, and add a little pickling spices. Then 
to one cup of salt add 13 cups of cold water. Let come to a good boil. 
Pour over pickles while boiling and seal airtight. These pickles will 
keep the year through. MRS. J. S. COHEN. 

Green Tomato Soy. 
Two gallons green tomatoes, sliced without peeling and not too 
thin. Slice also 12 large onions, 2 quarts of vinegar, 1 quart white 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls each of salt, ground mustard, black pepper, 1 
tablespoonful each cloves, allspice, red pepper, mustard seed. Stew till 
tender. Boil onions and vinegar first till almost tender. Then add rest. 

MRS. ROSE LOBE. 



[LIANCE'vSE 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 183 



Chow Chow. 

Cut into small pieces 2 heads of white cabbage, and boil till tender. 
Take 2 heads of cauliflower, cut up and put in a separate pan, and 
boil; also 1 quart of small onions, a dozen small cucumbers, y 2 gallon 
small tomatoes and 6 roots of chopped celery. Cook all in separate 
pans. Then put 2 gallons. of vinegar, 4 ounces each of ground mus- 
tard and mustard seed, a small pot of French mustard, 2 ounces of 
tumeric and 1 ounce of cloves in a pan, and set this over a fire. When 
it boils, mix the vegetaoles together and pour the liquor over them. 
Let it get cold and put it into jars. Cover over and tie down. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 

Dill Pickles. 

Make a brine (boiled water), so strong that an egg will float upon 
it. Then add to this brine y 2 of its quantity of fresh boiled water and 
y 2 cupful of ground pepper. Wash the pickles and put a layer of 
them and a couple of green peppers in a jar. Cover with layer of 
grape leaves and dill, using leaves and stems. Continue until jar is 
full of alternate layers of pickles and peppers and grape leaves and 
dill. Fill the jar with brine, place a cloth over top layer, and add a 
weight of some kind. Every few days take off the cloth and wash off 
scum, and then replace it. They should be fit to use in 10 to 12 days. 

MRS. PAULINE JOSEPH. 

Green Tomato Pickles or Any Kind of Pickles. 
Two pints vinegar, 1 small lump alum, 1 cupful sugar, mixed 
spices to taste, 1 small root horseradish. Boil together and pour 
over pickles. This is enough for 2 quarts pickles. Seal tight. For 
green tomato pickles slice tomatoes and let stand in strong cold salt, 
water over night. In morning drain and pour boiling water over and 
let boil until tender. Drain and put in glass jars and pour the hot 
vinegar over them and seal. For pickled peaches, pears and any fruit, 
cook fruit in the vinegar until tender. For cucumbers soak in salt 
water over night. In morning pour off brine and pour boling water 
over and let stand about 5 minutes. Drain, put in jars, pour vinegar 
over and seal. MRS. GUSTAVE BROWN. 

Raw Chutney for a Quick Relish. 

Pulp of 1 large tomato, chop fine, then add 1 small Spanish onion 
and one green chili pepper, also chopped fine. Mix with a squeeze of 
lemon juice and a pinch each of salt and sugar. 

Tomato Relish. 
Take 25 very large tomatoes, 8 or 9 green long peppers, 
5 large onions, 1 quart cider vinegar, 2y 2 pounds granulated sugar. 
Put in a bag whole cinnamon, mace, allspice, heaping tablespoonful of 
salt, add little paprika. Now peel tomatoes, melt sugar, add to 
vinegar, chop the onions and green peppers very fine. Mix everything 
together and 'cook about 3 hours. MRS. A. E. WILZIN. 

Call up Main 4134; Ind. 655, Merchants Printing Co. Prices Right. Work the Best. 



184 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Chili Sauce — No. 1 
12 medium sized ripe tomatoes, 1 pepper finely chopped, 1 onion 
finely chopped, 2 cups vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful 
salt, 2 teaspoonfuls cloves, 2 of cinnamon, 2 of allspice, 2 of grated 
nutmeg. Peel tomatoes and slice. Put in preserving kettle with other 
ingredients. Heat gradually to boiling point and cook slowly 2y 2 
hours. MRS. ROSE LOBE. 

Chili Sauce — No. 2. 
Slice 12 large ripe tomatoes, 2 large onions, 6 red peppers; chop 
all fine. Add 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar, 1 
cup or 2 of vinegar, according to strength. Boil slowly 2 hours. 

MRS. DAVE LIPMAN. 

Tomato Catsup. 
One peck tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 2 large onions. Boil 
half hour. Add 1 quart vinegar, 1 pint sugar, 1 tablespoonful ground 
cloves, 1 of allspice, 2 blades mace, 2 teaspoonful red pepper, 1 of 
white pepper, 2 sticks cinnamon. Boil 2 hours. Strain. 

MRS. ROSE LOBE. 

Mushroom Catsup. 
Break up the required quantity of mushrooms, put them in a tub, 
salt over and leave for two days. Afterward take out all the juice 
and strain in a saucepan. For every pint put in 1 ounce of salt, y 2 
teaspoonful of pepper corns, 6 cloves and 1-3 ounce of ginger. When 
boiling move the catsup to the side of the fire and let simmer gently. 

MRS. W. S. ROSENBLATT. 



"I I A I f* C CANNEDFRUITS 
iLlANCE VEGETABLES 
NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



MISCELLANEOUS 1S.3 



Miscellaneous 



Cold Cream. 
One ounce white wax, 1 ounce spermaceti, 2 ounces lanoline, 2 
ounces sweet almond oil, 2 ounces orange flower water, 4 ounces cocoa- 
nut oil, 20 drops benzoin, oil of geranium 10 cents. Melt, beat until 
nearly cold. Add benzoin and last orange flower water. Beat till cold. 
Put into small salve jars and keep in a cool place. 

Washington Fluid (Poison). 
One box Babbitt's potash, 2 ounces Murat ammonia, 1 ounce salts 
of tartar, 1 gallon water (warm). Get at drug store. Directions — 2y 2 
bucketfuls water, 2-3 cupful fluid, y 2 bar Lenox soap (shaved). Soak 
clothes over night in warm water, wring out, boil 20 minutes with 
-fluid, letting water heat well before adding fluid. Soap is put in water 
to melt thoroughly before adding fluid. 

To Rid Plant Jars of Worms. 
Two dozen horse chestnuts pounded fine. Pour over 2 quarts cold 
water and let stand over night. Pour liquid in jars. 

For Moths. 

Saturate furniture with naphtha or benzine. Ammonia will re- 
move white spots from furniture. 

How to Escape From a Burning House. 
Aply a wet cloth to the mouth and nostrils. You can get through 
the dense smoke easily. If possible cover the whole head and face. 

To Remove Stains From Marble. 
Make a paste of powdered soapstone and benzine. Spread it 
thickly over the marble and leave it on overnight, keeping it well cov- 
ered to prevent evaporation. Wash off with clear water. If the stains 
are not removed, repeat the process. 

To Remove Grease From Carpets. 
Use ammonia, almost pure. Cover the spot with white blotting 
paper and iron lightly or rub spot with a white flannel dipped in tur- 
pentine. 

"Colonial" is the watchword. Insist that your new carvers bear the 
stamp. 



186 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Berry Stains. 

The fumes of a brimstone match will remove berry stains from 
book, paper or engraving. 

To Extract Grease From Papered Walls. 
Dip a piece of flannel in spirits of wine, rub the greasy spots gently 
once or twice and the grease will disappear. 



To Remove Stains of Claret Wine. 
As soon as claret is spilled, cover spot with salt, 
few minutes. Then rinse in cold water. 



Let stand a 



To Keep Sink Drain Free From Grease. 
Pour down once a week at night y 2 can Babbitt's potash dissolved 
in 1 quart of water. 

To Remove Grease Stains From Cotton Goods. 
Wash in alcohol. 

To Remove Ink Stains. 
Wash in solution of hydrochloric acid and rinse in ammonia water. 
Wet the spot with warm water, put on sapolio, rub gently between the 
hands and generally the spot will disappear. 



Ivory Handled Knives. 
Never put knives with ivory handles in water, 
them to crack and discolor. 



Hot water causes 



Cut Glass. 

Cut glass should be washed and rinsed in water that is not very 
hot and of same temperature. 



To Clean Your White Felt Hat. 
Rub well with powdered magnesia and leave over night, 
well the next morning, and it will be like new. 



Brush 



To Remove Black from Bottom of Kettles. 
Before putting a kettle directly over the blaze, grease with lard. 
Then the black will be removed easily by rubbing with paper before 
washing. 



:liance c ;ss 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



MISCELLANEOUS 187 



To Clean a Waste Pipe. 

Just before retiring at night, pour into the clogged pipe enough 
liquid soda lye to fill the "trap" or bent part of the pipe. Be sure that 
no water runs into it until morning. The lye will convert all the 
offal into soft soap, and the first current of water in the morning will 
wash it away and clear the pipe clean as new. 

To Remove Iron Rust. 
Mix fine salt and cream of tartar or lemon juice, moisten with 
water, lay on stain and expose to the sun. Repeat application if nec- 
essary. 

In Putting on Milk to Boil 

Always rinse out the saucepan with water. This will prevent the 
milk from burning. 

To Remove Mildew Stains. 
Soak in milk for 48 hours, or rub with lemon juice and salt. Will 
also remove peach stains. 

To Remove Finger Ring. 
Hold hand in very cold water. 

To Clean Ermine. 
Rub with corn meal, renewing the meal as it becomes soiled. 

Coal Fire. 

If your coal fire is low, throw on a tablespoonful of salt and it 
will help. 

Fruit Stains in Linen. 
To remove, rub the part on each side with yellow soap. Then tie 
up a piece of pearl-ash in the cloth and soak well in hot water or boil. 
Afterward expose the stained part to the sun and air until removed. 

To Remove Glass Stoppers. 
A cloth wet with hot water and applied to the neck will cause the 
glass to expand, and the stopper may be removed. 

To Remove Rust From Knives, Forks, Etc. 

Cover with sweet oil, well rubbed on, and let it remain for 48 
hours, then rub with unslaked lime powdered very fine, until the rust 
disappears. 

Blueing. 

Use ball blueing instead of bottle blueing. 

Printing done well and cheaply by the Merchants Printing Co., Times Building. 



188 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Stains. 
Medicine stains may be removed from silver spoons by rubbing 
them with a rag dipped in sulphuric acid, and washing it off with soap- 
suds. Stains may be removed from the hands by washing them in a 
small quantity of oil of vitriol and cold water without soap. 

Grass Stains. 

A simple way to remove grass stains to spread butter on them 
and lay the article in the hot sunshine, or wash with alcohol. 

To Remove Fruit Stains. 
Fruit stains on white goods can very often be removed by pouring 
boiling water directly from the kettle over the spots, or soak them 
in sweet milk. This must be done before putting into water or before 
soap is used. 

To Prevent Rust on Flatirons. 

Beeswax and salt will make them as smooth as desired. Tie a 
lump of wax in a rag and keep for that purpose, and when the iron 
is hot rub it first with the wax, then scour it with the salt. 

Iron rust may be removed from delicate fabrics by covering spot 
thickly with cream of tartar, then twisting cloth to keep cream of 
tartar over spot. Put in a saucepan of cold water and heat water 
gradually to boiling point. 

To Clean Silver and Gold Lace. 
Take a piece of woolen cloth, place the lace on this, free it of 
all dust with a brush, and then apply some alum (which has been 
powdered and sifted through a fine sieve) with a soft brush. This 
will remove the tarnish and restore its former brightness. 

Sapolio removes ink stains. They can also be removed by laying 
the stained part in sour milk over night. 

A pitcher of cold water on a table in your room does much to 
purify the air. 

Open canned fruit and vegetables one hour or so before needed. 
It is richer when the oxygen is thus restored. 

Hot vinegar will remove paint from window glass. 

Stains on the hands can be removed by rubbing with salt moist- 
ened with lemon juice. 

To clean piano keys rub over with alcohol. 



USE RELIANCE 



:LIANCE3SK£ 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



MISCELLANEOUS 189 

A few tablespoonfuls of turpentine added to a bucket of water 
will prevent the daintiest fabric from fading. 

A flannel cloth saturated with kerosene will remove roughness and 
discolorations from porcelain lined bathtubs and bowls. 

Wash wringers are said to wear longer if wiped over with cloth 
saturated with kerosene each week before setting away. 

To remove white spots from furniture dip a cloth into hot water 
near the boiling point. Place over spot, remove quickly and rub over 
spot with dry cloth. Repeat if spot is not removed. Alcohol or cam- 
phor quickly applied may be used. 

Tumblers which have contained milk should be first rinsed in 
cold water before washing in hot water. 

To remove dust from rattan furniture, use a small painter's brush. 

Put some baking soda into the hot water for washing silver. It 
cleanses well and gives a nice polish. 

When boiling eggs, should one rise to the surface, it is not fresh. 

To wash carafes half fill with hot soapsuds to which is added 
1 teaspoonful washing soda. Let stand y 2 hour, occasionally shaking. 
Empty, rinse with hot water, drain, wipe outside. 

After boiling or frying, if any fat has spattered on range, wipe 
surface at once with newspaper. 

To remove fruit stains, pour boiling water over stained surface, 
having it fall from a distance of three feet. This is much better way 
than dipping stain in and out of hot water, or wring articles out of 
cold water and hang out of doors on a frosty night. 

A solution of pearl-ash in water thrown upon a fire extinguishes it 
instantly. The proportion is a quarter of a pound dissolved in some 
hot water, and then poured into a bucket of common water. 

Knives should never be dipped into hot water, as it injures the 
handles. If they do come off they may be fastened on in the following 
manner: Take powdered resin and mix with it a small quantity of 
powdered chalk, whiting or slacked lime. Fill the hole in the handles 
with the mixture, heat the tong of the knife or fork and thrust in. 
When cold it will be securely fastened. 

All sorts of vessels and utensils may be purified from long-re- 
tained smells of every kind by rinsing them out well with charcoal 
powder after the grosser impurities have been scoured off with sand 
and potash. 

Scald your woodenware often and keep your tinware dry. 

The clear type, printing- and compiling- of this book helped the success 
of it. See the Merchants' Printing- Company, Times Building. Main 4134 
Ind. 655. 



1M 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Before sweeping old carpets, sprinkle with pieces of newspaper 
wrung out of water. After sweeping, wipe over with cloth wrung 
out of a weak solution of ammonia water, which seems to brighten 
colors. 

Do not heat butter or fat in any glazed agate or porcelain-lined 
vessel, as it cracks the glazing. 

When making pot roasts, stewing meats of any kind or boiling 
puddings, always use a vessel with a tight-fitting lid. 

A heavy iron pan, called a spider, is best for browning flour in 
fat or butter, as it does not burn so quickly. 

Never fill a vessel more than three-quarters full when cooking, as 
it is apt to boil or fry over, thereby diminishing the food and ruining 
the stove. 

When opening eggs, always have several vessels handy, and open 
each egg into a separate dish, as one drop of a bad egg will make all 
the rest unfit for use. 

When boiling eggs in winter, to prevent them from cracking, lay 
them first in warm water for a few minutes before putting them into 
the boiling water. 

Uses of Sale Bread. 
Never throw stale bread away, as it is best for making stuffings 
for meats, poultry, game and fish. It is also good when put into the 
oven, browned and grated. It can be used instead of flour to roll fish 
in before frying them. Cutlets and liver can be treated likewise. When 
browned and grated it can be used in making bread tart, almond tart 
and grated apple tart. When not grated it is good for bread puddings 
of all kinds, bread pancakes, bread fritters, bread griddle cakes, bread 
balls, etc., also in soups and various other cookery. 

Lemons. 
To get the better of the bilious system, without blue pills, calomel, 
etc., take the juice of a lemon in a glass of water, just before retiring. 
In the morning, about half an hour before breakfast, do the same 
thing. Eating lemons clear irritates the stomach. Keep this up for 
several days — or as long as necessary. 



LLIANCE c v3S 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



HOME REMEDIES 191 



Home Remedies 



Cure for Toothache. 

14 of a pint of best alcohol, y 2 ounce of chloroform, y 2 ounce of 
arnica, y^ ounce of oil of cloves. Mix and apply with a piece of absorb- 
ent cotton; rub also on the gums and upon the face against the tooth. 
Sure cure. 

For a burn apply equal parts of white of egg and olive oil mixed 
together. Then cover with a piece of old linen. If applied at once no 
blister will form. Or apply at once cooking soda, then cover with 
cloth and keep the same wet with cold water. This takes out the pain 
and prevents blistering. 

Tainted Breath. 

Dissolve y 2 teaspoonful of soda in boiling water and drink it. 
Orris root is also good, and charcoal tablets sweeten the breath. 

To Remove Warts. 

Warts may be removed by steeping or soaking a small piece of 
beef all night in vinegar. Cut what will cover the wart and tie it on. 
Strips of sticking plaster will fasten it on. Take the meat off in the 
daytime and put it on at night. In two weeks the wart will die and 
fall off. 

Cough Cure. 

Three-eights of an ounce of anise seed, % ounce of stick (or root) 
licorice, % ounce senna leaves and y 2 pint Jamaica rum. Pour 1 pint 
boiling water on the herbs, let them simmer slowly down to y 2 pint. 
Then strain. When cool add y 2 pint of best syrup and y 2 pint of rum. 
Take as often as required. 

Cough Syrup. 

One ounce each hoarhound and licorice. 2 ounces gum arabic, 1 
pint molasses and 1 teacupful of vinegar. Boil the hoarhound in 1 
quart of water; dissolve the licorice and gum arabic in a little water 
first. Strain the hoarhound before adding the other ingredients. Put 
in vinegar when nearly done. 

How to Cure Nose Bleed. 
Snuffing up powdered alum will generally control bleeding 
from the nose. The best remedy is in the vigorous motion 
of the jaws, as if in the act of mastication, pressing the nose 
firmly between the finger and the thumb for a few minutes. This 
alone will often stop the bleeding. If it should not, then try what 
bathing the nose, forehead and nape of the neck with water quite 
cold will do. 

If you want courteous attention and the best value for the money, 
buy your new suit at J. Redelsheimer's, First and Col iinbia. 



192 



ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Quinsy, Sore Throat. 

Roast 4 large onions. Peel them quickly and slightly pound. Add 
to them a little sweet oil. Place them while hot in a thin muslin bag 
that will reach from ear to ear, first thoroughly rubbing the throat, in 
this way getting a good circulation of blood. Apply as warm as possi- 
ble to the throat. Change when the strength of the onions is exhausted. 
Flannel must be worn around the neck after the onion is removed. 

To Induce Sleep. 
Have the body gently rubbed all over with a towel wrung out of 
hot salt water. 

Palpitation of the Heart. 

A glass of ordinary soda water has been known to be a good cure 
for a bad attack of palpitation of the heart. 

Cold in the Head. 
Inhale spirits of camphor when the first symptoms appear. Put 
1 or 2 drops of the camphor on a lump of sugar, dissolve in a wine- 
glassful of water, and take a teaspoonful every 2 hours. 

To Kill Corns. 
Soak bread in vinegar, bind on day and night, and they will come 
out by the roots. 

Cramp in the Leg. 
A garter applied tightly around the limb affected will, in most 
cases, speedily remove the complaint. When it is more obstinate a 
brick should be heated, wrapped in flannel and placed at the foot of 
the bed. Diligent and long-continued friction is also very good. 

Choking. 
To prevent choking, break an egg into a cup and give it to the 
person choking to swallow. If one egg does not answer the purpose try 
another. The white is all that is necessary. 

Hiccough Cure for Children. 
A lump of sugar saturated with vinegar and given to the little one 
to suck will relieve it instantly. 

Felon Cure. 
Apply a poultice of raw onions 3 times a day, and 4 days will effect 
a cure. 

For Sprains. 
Mix and shake in a bottle the white of an egg, 1 tablespoonful 
vinegar, 1 tablespoonful spirits of turpentine. 



RELIANCE^S 

NATIONAL GROCERY CO. 



FOR THE SICK 



193 



For the Sick 



Tapioca Custard Pudding. 

One even tablespoonful of tapioca soaked for a couple of hours in 
1 cupful fresh milk. Stir into this the yolk of a fresh egg a pinch of 
salt, and a little sugar. Bake in cup for 15 minutes, with a little jelly 

MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Oyster Toast. 

Make some nice toast, then butter and put in hot dish Take 
oyster juice and milk in equal quautities, season with little butter 
pepper and salt. Let come to a boil then add oysters. When done 
pour over toast. MRS. E. MORGENSTERN. 

Foods for Convalescents. 

Fresh milk, slightly cooked eggs, boiled rice, beef tea, mutton and 
chicken broth, light custards, simple fruit or wine gelatines, calf's foot 
jelly, grape juice diluted, the juice of ripe oranges, lemons, straw- 
berries, hot water poured on tamarinds or peaches and allowed to get 
cold and strained, toast water, gruels, rice water, apple water, barley 
water, boiled white fish, sweetbreads, oysters and oyster broth. ' 



GOLD SHIELD COFFEE 
GOLD SHIELD TEA 



ALWAYS GOOL 
ALL GROCERS 



194 ONE THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES 



Index 



Table of Weights and Measures 13 

Soups 15-20 

Dumplings, Etc., for Soups 21-23 

Fish 24-34 

Fish and Meat Sauces 35-37 

Shell Fish 38-46 

Entrees 47-60 

A Spring Luncheon 60 

Salads 62-69 

Vegetables 70-79 

Meats 80-86 

Chicken and Other Poultry 87-91 

Puddings 92-105 

Pudding Sauces 107-108 

Pies 109-113 

Frozen Desserts 115-119 

Candies 121-122 

Cakes 123-145 

Cookies 147-153 

Bread and Breakfast Foods 155-160 

Appetizers 161-163 

Sandwiches 165-168 

Beverages 169-173 

Preserves and Jellies 175-180 

Pickles and Relishes 181-184 

Miscellaneous 185-190 

Home Remedies '. 191-192 

For the Sick 193 



ENGRAVING 



OUR ENGRAVING IS OF A 
STANDARD DESERVING OF 
CONSIDERATION. IN THE 
ENGRAVING OF * FORMS 
USED FOR SOCIAL PUR- 
POSES: INVITATIONS, RE- 
CEPTION CARDS, AND VIS- 
ITING CARDS, OUR STYLE 
AND WORDING IS IN KEEP- 
ING WITH THAT ESTAB- 
LISHED BY EASTERN 
AUTHORITIES :: :: :: :: 



We shall be pleased to quote Prices 
and submit Samples upon request 



LOWMAN & HANFORD CO 

616-620 FIRST AVENUE 

The Leading Booksellers of the 
Pacific Northwest 



THE PURITY 
RICHNESS- 
FLAVOR 



OF 



RoS 






MlB 



PIONEER 

BRAND 
EVAPORATED MILK 



Gives you a Safer, Richer, Purer 
Milk Supply than most so-called 
"fresh milk" ordinarily supplied. 



OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS: 

C. NEUFELDER, President r , p PPI<le v/ 

R. J. REEKIE, Vice President 
JOS. T. GREENLEAF, Cashier 
G. B. NICOLL JAS . s . GQLDSM.TH 



Peoples Savings Bank 

INCORPORATED 1889 

SECOND AVENUE AND PIKE STREET 
SEATTLE, WASH. 



COMMERCIAL AND SAVINGS BUSINESS TRANSACTED 



4% INTEREST ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS 

DRAFTS ISSUED ON ALL THE PR.NCPAL POINTS OP THE UNITED STATES AND EUROPE 



QUALITY Established 1874 



SATISFACTION 




CLOTHIERS, HATTERS, HABERDASHERS 

FOR MEN AND YOUNG MEN 



WINES AND LIQURS 

FOR YOUR HOME 

LEVINSON'S 

1209 SECOND AVENUE 

Quick Free Delivery Telephone (both) Main 644 



STAR ESTATE 



STEEL RANGES 



'%l_ 



Reliability i n 
cooking, best 
material and 
workmanship 
Your Life de- 
pends on what 
you eat, there- 
fore good cook- 
ing and baking 
are essential. 
You get the 
best if your 
meals are pre- 
pared on a Star 
Estate Steel 
Range. We 
guarantee 
every one we 
sell to work 
perfectly; 
moreover, we 
give you thirty 
days free trial. 
We arc the Ex- 
clusive Agents. 
SOLD ON EASY 
TERMS. 



PROTTAS & LEVITT BROS. 

Complete Housefurnishers 
2200 First Avenue ( B £S3£d) Seattle, Washington 

Phones, Main 1144— A 2218 




u 



(Drinking is akin to eating— you are careful \ 
in your selections of foods— so why not I 
use the same precaution in what you drink. / 



MAKE 




D 






your regular drink — nothing better 
for a refreshing, stimulating and 
nutritious beverage. 

YOU'LL FAVOR THE FLAVOR. 

The Independent Brewing Go, 

" MADE IN SEATTLE " 



PHONES \ J-&," 



Order a case for the home. 



DEC 26 19M 



Cutlery is the cause of all 
your troubles. Use 

COLONIAL 

and you will be happy. 
EVERY ARTICLE STAMPED 



RINGS FOR QUALITY 




HMK 



^ 



TRADE MARK 



Made of the Best Quality Steel, Highly Tem- 
pered and Finely Finished. 

Butcher Knives, Kitchen Knives, Scissors, 
Shears, Pocket Cutlery 



Sold Exclusively by 

Schwabacher Hardware Co. 

SEATTLE 

Ask your dealer for Colonial 



No Matter How Good 
the Recipe 

Good Material is Necessary 
to Produce Good Results 



The result is bound to be satisfactory 
wherever the following groceries are 
used. 

(Bold Shield Coffee 

(Bold Shield Cea 

(Bold Shield Spices 

(Bold Shield 5flavorin$£xtracts 

Ibappy 1bome Canned Vegetables 

Ibappy 1bome Canned jfruit 

lhappy % ome Canned jfish 

All goods sold under our Brands are guaran- 
teed to comply fully with the National Pure 
Food Law, as well as the Pure Food Law of 
every state. 



Schwabacher Bros. 8 Co., Inc, 



SEATTLE 



