LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 639 280 5 



831 
42 
py 1 



Superior j^irel 
(.ookery 



ess 



-. SEEUY ( 
SANITARY: 
FJBELES5-; 

..COOKER.'y 



FRANCES A. SEELY 



Copyright 190S by Frances A. Seely. 






COrt«l«HT OFFIOt 



JAK 



18 t913 



Superior Fireless Cookery 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 
All measurements are level. Follow rules for cooking 
given in recipe book. All recipes can he adapted to large 
quantities by substituting the term "quart" for "cup" and 
multiplying the smaller measurements, such as spoons, 
etc. by four. This will give the proper proportions to 
each quart. 

3 teaspoons =^ 1 tablespoon. 

4 tablespoons .= y^ cup = Yz gill. 
Yz cup = 1 gill 2 gills =. 1 cup. 

2 cups = 1 pint. 2 pints ^= 4 cups = 1 quart. 

4 cups flour = 1 pound = 1 quart. 

2 cups granulated sugar = 1 pound. 

2Y2 cups powdered sugar = 1 pound. 

4 tablespoons butter solid and level == 2 oz. = ^4 cup. 

2 cups butter packed solidly =^ 1 pound. 

GENERAL REMARKS. 

Illustrative Recipes — Are given for all branches of cook- 
ery in which superior results can be obtained by the fire- 
less metluxl. Roasting and Baking are not dwelt upon be- 
cause from the nature of these processes the products can- 
not excel and must in some cases fall short of results ob- 
tainable in the usual way. 

No recipes are given for foods which require but a few 
minutes boiling on stove and are not benefitted by the 
fireless method. 

Any favorite recii)e can be successfully adapted to the 
Fireless method if comparison is made with similar illus- 
trative recipes. 

A number of short time foods can be cooked over the 
large lower kettle, by rapidly substituting one small kettle 
for another. 

Remove foods from Cooker at the end of an all day 
or all night period, unless the quantities are very large. 

Before using a recipe read carefully all special notes 
at the head of the group under which it is classed. 

Boil directly in utensils furnished with the Cooker. 

Do not use large utensil for small quantities of food. 

Observe all rules for measuring food and water and 
boil on the stove for the exact time specified. 

All measurements are level. 

Lumps should be crushed and sifted before measuring. 

I 



A cup is any half-pint cup filled full and leveled with a 
knife. 

A measuring cup divided into thirds and quarters may 
be purchased from any dealer. The term part used on 
time table means any unit of measurement. One part 
meal to six parts water may be one cup to six cups; one 
quart to six quarts, etc., according to the quantity desired. 

Place foods in hot dishes if you wish to serve hot at 
the table. 

Hot Food may be kept hot, or Cold Foods warmed 
up without drying by placing in Cooker over a kettle con- 
taining boiling food or water. 

CEREALS. 

SPECIAL NOTES. 

Read carefully before cooking any cereal 

Owing to process of manufacture, rolled or sterilized 
cereals take only the proportions given on package. Stir 
when possible with a fork or wire egg beater. 

Proportions given arc for firm cereals. 

Condensation sometimes settles on top of cooked ce- 
reals in a little clear water and may be poured off or 
stirred in before serving. 

Measure meal first and place it in a shallow dish so 
that it can be shaken lightly into the boiling water. Meas- 
ure water into kettle which accompanies cooker. Place 
directly on fire, add salt, and when bubbling boiling hot, 
add meal, stirring slowly and evenly for several minutes 
until it begins to thickei. This prevents the meal from 
gathering in the center and lumping. Be exact as to boil- 
ing time over fire. If too short the result will be a thin 
cereal, if too long, the water will have boiled away and 
the cereal be thick and stiff 

To prevent lumping in cooking fine grained cereals 

(Cornmeal. farina, etc.), measure water into kettle which 
accompanies Cooker, bring quickly to the boil, then re- 
move kettle to side of rrnge or turn out gas so that boiling 
ceases during the process of stirring in the cereal. Shake 
cereal in lightly, stirring constantly with wire beater un- 
til evenly mixed. Return kettle and contents to fire, 
stir slowly and evenl> until it boils again and begins to 
thicken. Then boil for the time specified, but not too 
rapidly, or over too strong a fire. Stir occasionally to 
prevent settling and sticking. The time required for care- 
ful and close attention during the short preliminary boil- 
ing of cooker foods, is fully repaid bj' the very superior 



results and long care free period, once the food is in the 
Cooker. 

The flavor of Steel Cut or Old Fashioned Oatmeal, is 
preferred by many to the rolled variety. It is also much 
more economical. 1 part expands to a firm cereal in 5 
parts water, whereas the same amount of water would 
require more than 2 parts rolled oatmeal. 

Note. Some grades of oatmeal develop a slight bitter- 
ness from too long a period in the Cooker. In this case, 
do not exceed 10 hours. 

Special attention is drawn to the economy and trans- 
formation of Yellow Cornmeal. It is much better flav- 
ored than the white meal and makes a most delicate 
breakfast cereal. In the case of invalids, it affords a 
nourishing and appetizing gruel. A combination of 2 
parts yellow cornmeal, 1 part farina, makes an agreeable 
change. 

Yellow Cornmeal — Breakfast Cereal — One cup meal, 6 
cups water, 1 level tablespof)nful sugar, 2 level teaspoon- 
fuls salt. Stir meal slowly into boiling salted water, stirr- 
ing constantly until it begins to boil and thicken evenly. 
Boil ten minutes, cover before removing from fire, place 
in cooker, over lower kettle filled with boiling food or 
water, 6 hours or till night. 

Corn Meal Gruel — 1 part meal, 7 parts water, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, 2 teaspoons salt; proceed as for breakfast 
cereal. When cooked this may be still further thinned 
with milk. 

White Cornmeal — To prevent lumping, have the water 
hot, but not boiling. Lift kettle from fire and stir in the 
meal slowly and evenly, then return to fire and boil ten 
minutes as usual. This rule applies also to some of the 
finely milled grades of yellow meal, otherwise stir yellow 
meal into boiling water. One level tablespoonful sugar 
to each cup dry cornmeal greatly improves the flavor of 
ordinary meal. 

Mush to Fry — 1 cup cornmeal, Sl/z cups water, follow 
rule for breakfast cereal. On removing from cooker turn 
the mixture into a shallow square granite pan, previously 
wet with cold water. When cold turn out and cut in 2 
inch squares, roll in flour and place in a croquette basket; 
fry in deep fat until brown; drain a few minutes on brown 
paper and serve as a vegetable with bacon, ham, pork- 
tenderloin or roast pork, or as a dessert with syrup or 
granulated sugar. 

Cracked wheat and pearl hominy expand more fully if 
put over fire in rold water; also improved by soaking. 



Cracked Wheat — One cup meal, A^/2 cuds water 2 level 
teasnoonful.s salt. Place over inre in cold water, heat slow- 
ly and boil 25 minutes. Place in cooker 9 hours, or over 
night. Serve hot with cream or mould aiid serve cold 
with whipped cream or crushed fruit and sug-ar. Delicious 
for hot mornings. 

Hominy — Fine Granulated — One cup fine granulated 

huniiny, 4'/i cups water, 2 level teaspoonfuls salt. Stir 
mto the boiling salted water and boil steadily for 30 min- 
utes. Place in cooker 9 hours or over night; delicious 
fried. 

Hominy, Pearl — One cup hominy, 43^2 cups water, 2 
level teaspoonfuls salt. Soak 9 or 10 hours in plenty of 
warm water. Pour this ofif and add 4>^ cups cold salted 
water. Place over fire and let come slowly to the boil, 
stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Boil gently 1 
hour and place in cooker over night or all day, when it 
will have absorbed all the water and be large and full. 

Another way — Soak as usual. Drain and turn into 3 quarts 
boiling salted water. Boil 30 minutes. Place in cooker 
9 hours or over night. Remove from cooker and drain. 
Serve as a cereal with cream and sugar or fry and serve 
as vegetable. 

Rolled Oats, Mothers' Oats, Quaker Oats, etc. — Rolled 
wheat, Wheat Flakes, Pettijohn — One cup meal to 2^ 
cups water, 1 teaspoonful salt to each cup meal. Add salt 
to water and when boiling bubbling hot add meal. Stir 
with a fork or wire egg beater until it boils again; boil 5 
minutes; place in cooker 6 hours, or over night; on remov- 
ing trom cooker mix lightly with a fork. 

Steelcut Oats — Old fashioned oatmeal — One cup meal, 5 
cups water, \]/2 teaspoonfuls salt; boil 15 minutes; place 
in cooker 8 hours, or over night. 

Farina, Vitos, etc. — One cup meal, 7 cups water, 2 level 
teaspoonfuls salt; stir into boiling salted water; boil 3 
minutes; place in cooker 4 hours, over night. 

Wheatlet, Wheatina, Cream of Wheat — One cup meal, 
6 cups water, follow rule for farina. 

All fine grained cereals make delicious desserts if 
pressed into cups or moulds when warm and allowed to 
set. Serve with cream and sugar, dried fruits, crushed 
fresh fruits, jelly or syrup. 



SOUPS. 
SPECIAL NOTES. 

Read carefully before cooking any soup. 

Cover cooked bones with water, but allow 1 quart of 
water to every 2 pounds of fresh meat. Crack all bones 
very thoroughly and use more meat than bone. A little 
baking soda added to dried peas or beans when put on to 
boil makes them more tender for straining. 

On removing from cooker reheat all soups to the boil- 
ing point before straining, otherwise flavor and strength 
are left in meat. If, however, soup meat is wished for 
croquettes, hashes, etc., allow it to cool in the broth when 
it will be found juicy and savory. 

Unless white stock is desired, the flavor of soup is much 
improved by browning the meat in a little butter or beef 
drippings, and then adding the cold water. Bring very 
slowly to a boil and skim thoroughly for several minutes. 

Cooked Bones from roast pork or chops make a soup 
not unlike chicken in flavor. Cook, strain, cool and re- 
nidve fat. Add tomato flavoring and cooked rice. 

Soup Stock — Two lbs. beef marrow bones, 2 lbs. coarse 
lean beef, 2 lbs. lean veal, 1 large onion, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 
6 coarse stalks of celery, 3 quarts cold water. Have bones 
cracked fine, vegetables cut in pieces and meat cut up as 
for beef tea. Cover with the water and bring very slowly 
to a boil. Skim well when it begins to bubble, boil on 
stove 30 minutes, set in Cooker 9 hours, or over night. 
Reheat to boiling point and strain. Set away to cool. Re- 
move fat before using. This stock will form the foundation 
of any soup. 

Note — If veal meat is desired for croquettes, stews, etc., 
let stock cool a little. Remove meat and then reheat stock 
nnd strain as directed. 

Stock for Clear Soup. — Four lbs. lean beef, 2 quarts wa- 
ter, 1 small onion, 1 carrot, 2 stalks celery, salt and pepper. 
Cut meat up, cover with water, let come slowly to a boil, 
skim very carefully. Boil 20 minutes. Add vegetables, cut 
in pieces. Boil 10 minutes. Cover and place in Cooker 
9 hours, or over night. Remove from Cooker. Reheat to 
t)oiling point and strain first through a colander to catch 
meat -and vegetables, then through an old napkin previously 
wet in boiling water. Set away to cool. Skiin off all fat 
when it will be ready for any kind of clear soun! 

Julienne Soup — Three pints clear stock, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 1 tcaspoonful sugar, ^ cup each of carrots, celery, 
onion, tnrni]>, and peas. Eight fresh or canned string 
beans. Salt and pepper. Cut the beans in thin short strips 



or tiny rings. The other vegetables in even dice. Brown 
the onion in the butter, add sugar and carrot. Stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Add the other vegetables and just 
enough boiling water to cover. Boil ten minutes and place 
in Cooker 3 hours. Remove and add to soup stock. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper to taste, boil 5 minutes and serve. 

Split Pea Soup (Yellow) — Three cups peas, 4 quarts 
stock, ]/4 teaspoonful soda, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, salt and pepper. Wash the split peas, cover 
with plenty of warm water and soak 8 or 9 hours, or over 
night. Drain and add cold stock, or this stock may be 
cooked with peas, using cold water and any kind of 
cooked bones, meat ends or a little fresl or salt pork. 
Add soda. Let come slowly to the boil. Skim well, and 
boil 30 minutes. Place in Cooker 9 or 10 hours or over 
night. Remove from Cooker and rub through a coarse 
strainer. Return to stove. Melt butter, add flour, brown 
slightly, stir into soup. Season to taste with salt and pep- 
per. Boil about 5 minutes, L.irring constantly. If this 
should appear too thick, add a little boiling water and 
b'^il up briskly for a moment. Dice a slice of bread and 
fry to a delicate brown in butter or deep fat. Serve with 
or in the soup. 

Navy bean or lentil soup may be prepared in the same 
way. 

Brosia Meal of ground peas, beans or lentils can be 
used in place of the dried varieties. It is very desirable 
for soups, purees, etc., requiring no more preparation than 
the thickening of ordinary soup stock. To every 2 quarts 
soup add a roux composed of 1 tablespoonful flour and 
1 tablespoon butter, as given in recipe for split pea soup. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup — One bunch asparagus, 3 
cuns salted water, 1 quart milk, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 
tablespoonful flour, yolks of two eggs. Cut asparagus into 
y^ inch pieces and drop into the boiling salted water. Boil 
5 minutes on stove, 2 hours in Cooker. Reserve J/^ cup of 
the most perfect tips and rub the remainder through a 
colander, or coarse strainer, squeezing very thoroughly to 
obtain all the juice. Return the liquid to fire to keep hot. 
Melt butter in a saucepan over hot water and add flour. 
Rub smooth and stir into the milk. Cook and stir until 
smooth. Add asparagus liquor slowly. Have egg yolks 
beaten and ready. Pour the hot soup gradually upon these, 
stiring constantly Return to fire for a minute. Season and 
serve or keep hot in Cooker until wanted. 

Cream of Potato Soup — Six large boiled potatoes, Y2 
cup cream, 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 table- 
spoonful flour, Yi teaspoonful onion juice, 1 teaspoonful 



minced parsley. Biiil potatoes 5 minutes on bre, 2 hours 
in Cooker. Renujve, virain well, and shake over dry heat. 
Mash, add cream and heat until very light. Heat milk to 
boiling point, rub butter and tlour smooth and thin with a 
little of the milk until it can be poured into it. Stir con- 
stantly until it thickens and pour slowly into the mashed 
potato, beating lightly. Season to taste with salt, pepper 
and onion juice. Add parsley just before serving. 

Cream of Rice — One quart chicken stock, y^, cup rice, 
1 quart cream or milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 small onion, 
1 stalk celery. Wash rice carefully and add to stock or 
water in which a chicken was boiled, and to this add 
onion and celery cut fine. Boil 5 ra'nutes on stove, place 
in Cooker 3 hours. Pass through a sieve, add seasoning 
and milk or cream which has just been brought to the 
boil. If cream is used, butter may be omitted. 

Delicious Broth — Equal weights of mutton and veal. 
Allow 1 quart water to 2 pounds meat, 30 minutes on 
stove, 9 or 10 hours in cooker, remove from cooker, reheat 
and strain. Season with salt only. It forms a clear 
jelly when cold. If the meat is allowed to f- ^o\ in broth 
it retains its flavor and may be used for other purposes. 

FISH. 

Special attention is called to the unusually sweet 
Havor of cokcr boiled fish. '1 he flesh is white and firm, 
flaking from the bones without being soft, and in every 
way superior to stove cooked fish. 

Plain Boiled White Fish— Scale and clean fish. Wash 
antl wipe dry. Place in a kettle of boiling salted water. 
Boil 5 minutes, place in Cooker 2 hours. Remove from 
Cooker and drain. Garnish with thin slices of lemon 
and parsley. Serve with plain white or egg sauce. 

Turbot a la Creme — One large whitefish, 1 quart milk, 
4 tablespoonfuls flour, \/\ lb. butter, 2 egg yolks, 1 small 
onion, 1 teaspoonful minced parsley, 1 pinch thyme, salt 
and pepper. Prepare and cook fish as directed for plain 
boiled fish. Drain and let stand until cold. Remove skin 
and pick up fine with two silver forks. Take out all the 
bones. Place milk on fire with onion, parsley and thyrne. 
Scald up and set in CooKcr for two hours. Remove milk 
from Cooker. Mix flour with a little water and strain into 
milk. Stir until it thickens, strain over the egg yolks. Add 
butter, salt and pepper. Pour over fish and mix lightly 
with a fork, taste again, and add more salt if necessary. 
Turn into a baking dish or individual shells or ramekins. 



Cover top with rolled cracker or buttered bread crumbs 
and over all a grating of cheese. Bake 30 minutes, or until 
brown. 

Fresh Codfish — Select a thick piece from the middle 
of the tish, cover with plenty of boiling salted water, boil 
5 minutes, place in Cooker for 2 hours, drain and serve 
with egg sauce, pouring half the amount prepared over 
the fish and the remaining half in a sauce boat. 

Fresh Halibut — Instead of having the halibut cut in 
steaks, have it cut in one thick piece and follow rule 
for fresh cod. Serve with cream or egg sauce. 

. . Cream Sauce — Two tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, 1 cup milk, salt and a dash of red pepper, 
melt butter, stir in the flour until smooth, add cold milk, 
heat gradually, stirring all the time until it boils and 
thickens. 

Egg Sauce — Make as for white sauce, and add the yel- 
low of 1 raw egg to the thicKened milk, and one hard 
boiled egg chopped fine with a silver knife, or add minced 
parsley and omit hard boiled egg. 

Turbot a la Creme — Cod or halibut can be used to 
make turbot a la creme or a plain scalloped fish, using a 
simple white sauce to moisten the flakes. Sprinkle but- 
tered crumbs and a grating of cheese over the top. Bake 
20 to 30 minutes or until brown. 

Codfish Balls — Six potatoes, 1 cup codfish, 2 eggs, 1 
tablespoonful butter. Pare and cut raw potatoes in 
pieces. Shred codfish fine with a fork, without soaking, 
boil with potatoes on fire 5 minutes. In Cooker l}/2 hours. 
Drain, shake dry and mash. Beat in eggs until light, 
add butter, form into balls, roll in flour, and fry in deep 
fat. 

MEATS. 

SPECIAL NOTES. 

Read carefully before cooking any meat. 

Fresh Meats and Fowl should be covered with boiling 
water and boiled rapidly for the time specified on fire to 
harden the albumen and keep in the juices. The simmer- 
iiig which makes them juicy and tender is done in the 
cooker. All small and cut up meats for stews will be 
found thoroughly cooked in four hours, but are not in- 
jured by the longer period which is frequently more con- 
venient. The flavor of stews is improved bj^ searing or 



browning the meat before the boiling process begins. A 
few minutes care in trimming the meat free from fat and 
gristle — the browning of onion for flavoring in a little 
dripping before searing meat in same — the addition of 
carrot or tomato, or both, for flavoring — all serve to make 
delicious stews out of the commonest cuts of ineat. The 
gravy may be thickened and seasoned before placing in 
cooker and should be thicker than usually desired as a 
slight percentage of juice from the meat v^^ill thin it to 
the proper consistency when done. 

Salt Meats It is absolutely essential that all salt 
meats be soaked in plenty of cold water, then scraped, 
trimmed free from discolorations and rust}' edges, rinsed 
and placed over fire in plenty of cold water and brought 
very slowly to the boil. If placed in warm water or al- 
lowed to come to the boil too rapidly, the fiber contracts 
and hardens and no subsequent boiling -will make it 
tender. On the contrary, the longer it boils the harder 
and tougher it becomes. Skim carefully and add boiling 
water if needed before placing in Cooker as kettles must 
be full. 

Ham — It is necessary that a iiam should be soaked 10 
hours, or over night before boiling to soften the hard 
outer surface so that it can be scraped clean and trimmed 
free from brown and rusty edges. The water in which 
it is boiled can then De used instead of meat to flavor 
bean or pea soup. 

If liam, mutton or large meats shrink very much, 
shorten the boiling time on the stove, as great shrinkage 
indicates too long boiling before the simmering process 
of the Cooker begins. 

If shank is too long for kettle, slit skin at the back 
of it with a sharp knife and remove small end bone, then 
push loose meat into cavity and fasten the skin with a 
few stitches neatly to the back of the ham. 

Boiled Ham (10 to 12 lbs.) — Soak 10 hours, or over 
night. Scrape clean and trim free from brown and rusty 
edges. Place over fire in large kettle full of fresh cold 
water. Bring verv slowly to a boil, skim carefully and 
boil steadily 40 minutes. Add boiling water to fill kettle 
full before placing in Cooker. Place in Cooker 10 
hours, or over night. Remove from Cooker, lift edge of 
skin and peel off. Serve hot. Can be served plain or 
covered with 3 tablespoonfuls grated bread crumus mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls brown sugar. Brown in oven or under 
gas broiler. 

A caramel composed of 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, i table- 
spoonful English mustard and just enough vinegar to make a 



smooth paste may be used instead ot bread crumbs and sugar. 
Score ham, spread caramel over top and in each square stick 
a whole clove. Brown and serve. 

Another — After removing skin, stick in cloves, put in 
bakmg pan. C5prinkle with brown sug"ar, add 1 goblet 
full of sherry or sweet cider. Bake in moderate oven 1 
hour, basting frequently. 

If desired for cold ham, let nearly cool in liquor before 
removing skin. Serve plain, or brown as directed. 

Tongue — Wash and place over fire in cold water, 
boil on stove 30 minutes. Place in Cooker over night. 
Remove from Cooker, pour cold water over it and skin 
from tip to end. For sauce 2 tablespoonfuls flour, lightly 
browned with 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 quart water, in 
which tongue was boiled; 1 turnip, 1 carrot, cut fine; some 
parsley, 1 small onion; 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire 
sauce, s'alt and pepper. After boiling, the tongue is placed 
in the above sauce and baked. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton — Place mutton in large kettle 
and cover with boiling water. Add one medium sized 
onion 1 one carrot cut in pieces. Season with pepper 
only. Boil 30 minutes. Then place in Cooker 8 hours or over 
night. After serving hot, season liquor with salt and return 
mutton to it to cool. 

Note — Remove the thin outer skin of mutton, as the 
strong flavor lies in this. If leg is too long, remove small 
end bone, pin loose meat down with a skewer, and it will 
go into kettle easilj'. 

Pot Roast — Trim beef free from fat or gristle. Place 
this fat, dripping or salt pork in stew pan over fire. Add 
1 onion and 2 carrots cut in rounds. Fry gently 5 min- 
utes, stirring to prevent burning. Remove vegetables to 
a dish and put in meat, moving and turning until well 
browned on all sides. Cover with boiling water and re- 
turn vegetables adding more carrots if flavor is liked. 
Season with pepper. Boil gently 20 or 30 minutes, accord- 
ing to weight of beef, boil up hard a minute, before set- 
ting in Cooker over night or all day. Remove from Cook- 
er, take out beef and set liquid over fire, boil up, thicken 
with flour and water nassed through a strainer, add s'alt 
to taste, put meat in, boil 10 minutes, being careful not 
to burn. Serve or set back in Cooker until wanted. 

Fresh Pork is an admirable substitute for chicken in 
making salads, croquettes, etc. Cool in the liquor in 
which it is cooked, then trim free from fat and gristle 
before dicing or mincing. The liquor may be used as 
soup stock. Flavored with tomato, and the addition of 
rice, it is not unlike chicken. 

10 



Spring Chickens may be evolved from old hens. 

For Broihng split down the back, clean very thorough- 
ly and remove all membrane adhering to inside of breast 
and back. Close again and cover with plenty of boiling 
water, boil 30 minutes; in Cooker 4-6 hours according to 
age of bird. Remove from Cooker, spread chicken open, 
broil bone side slowly first, then spread a little butter 
on the meat side and brown quickly; delicious. For roast- 
ing, stuff fowl as usual, plunge into fast boiling water, 
boil 30 minutes, in Cooker 4 or 6 hours. Remove from 
Cooker, spread with a little butter, roast in a hot oven 
until brown. 

Attention is drawn to the great econymy of this 
method. The meat from the mature bird is not only more 
nourishing, but the liquor in which it is cooked can be 
used for soup. Season with pepper and salt, add cooked 
rice and a little tomato. Or both may be omitted and a 
lightly beaten egg stirred in just before serving. 1 egg 
to each quart of broth. In the case of large quantities 
the number of eggs may be lessened proportionately, or 
part of the broth used plain. 

ChicKcn Stew — Cut up chicken, wash and remove all 
the membrane adhering to bone side of back and breast, 
as the strong flavor seems to be- in this, cover with boil- 
ing water and skim carefully as it comes to a boil. Sea- 
son with pepper and boil 30 minutes, place in Cooker for 
6 or 8 hours, according to age of chicken; on removing 
from Cooker, skim chicken out and keep hot. Thicken 
gravy and add salt, boil up and return the chicken, boil 
10 minutis and set back in Cooker for 30 minutes to blend 
with gravy. A little curry powder added to gravy will 
give curried chicken, or chicken may be browned in a 
frying pan before boiling, making a brown fricasee. 

Plain Mutton or Veal Stew — Three lbs. lean meat cut 
in squares, place in Cooker kettle, cover with boiling wa- 
ter, boil 20 minutes, skim well. In Cooker 4^ hours, or 
longer if desired, remove from Cooker, skim meat out 
and keep hot, thicken gravy with flour and water passed 
through a strainer, season to taste with salt and pep- 
per, return meat to gravy, boil 10 minutes and return to 
Cooker for about 30 minutes to blend with the gravy. 

Brown Mutton or Veal Stew — Three lbs. lean meat, 1 
onion, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 3 
tablespoonfuls finely minced salt pork, cut meat in three 
inch squares, slice onion and fry in the butter until it 
begins to color, skim out, put in meat squares, brown on 
all sides, and turn into Cooker kettle, add flour to gravy 
in pan, stir until smooth and add 1 pint of cold water, 

11 



pepper and salt to taste, stir constantly until it thickens, 
pour over meat and add minced salt pork, boil ten min- 
utes, watching carefully that it does not stick. Place in 
Cooker 4 hours or longer if desired. A teaspoonful of 
curry powder may be added to veal if flavor is liked and 
thus make curried veal. 

Beef Stew — Three pounds beef (round) cut in 2-inch 
squares, free from fat or gristle; 3 tablespoonfuls butter 
or beef dripping, 3 level tablespoonfuls flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, y^ teaspoonful pepper, J/^ can tomatoes or 4 whole 
ones. Place onion in frying pan and fry a golden brown. 
Add beef and turn often for about 10 minutes. Remove 
beef to pot, and to gravy in pan add seasoning, tomatoes 
and 1 pint water. Mix flour with a little water and stir 
into gravy. Boil up and pour over beef. Boil 10 min- 
utes and place in Cooker 3 or 4 hours. Veal may be 
cooked in the same way, omitting onion. 

Mock Birds — One and one-half lbs. veal, cut very thin. 
Trim and cut in strips 3 inches wide and 4 inches long. 
Make a dressing of bread crumbs, as for fowl, lyk pints 
bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful salt, a little pepper, ^ tea- 
spoonful sage or summer savory, rubbed fine between the 
hands, 1 tablespoonful butter. Mix very thoroughly, 
pour a little boiling water over hard bits of bread or 
crusts, add to dry crumbs (this binds them together.) 
Spread on strips of meat, roll up and tie with a clean 
white string, then roll in flour. Place salt pork or Deef fat 
dripping over fire. When melted and hot, put in meat 
birds, turning often so that they brown without burning. 
This will take about 10 minutes. Remove from pan and 
place in kettle. Put 2 even tablespoonfuls flour in the 
fat left in the pan, add one level tablespoonful butter. Stir 
until smooth and slightly brown. Add 1 pint cold water, 
stir constantly until it boils. Season with salt, pepper and 
a little tomato. Strain this over meat birds, and boil gen- 
tly 10 minutes. Set in Cooker 5 hours or longer if de- 
sired, over large utensil filled with boiling water or food. 
Cut and remove all strings. Arrange on deep platter and 
pour the gravy over them. Beef mav be prepared in this 
manner. 

Mutton chops may be browned, pork and veal chops 

breaded and browned in hot fat, the gravy made as for 
mock birds and the same general directions followed for 
lire and Cooker. 

Braised Pork Tenderloin — Cut tenderloins open, but 
not quite through, make a dressing as for veal birds and 
fill the tenderloins. If small make one form the cover of 
the other, bind together witli clean white string, roll in 
flour and proceed as for veal birds. 

12 



Beef Olives — One and one-half lbs. beef round, sliced 
thin, trim and cut in 4-in. strips. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley, and a little pepper and salt, roll and fasten with 
toothpick or clean white string. Roll in flour and brown 
in salt pork fat, beef drippings or butter, turn often and 
when well browned remove to Cooker pot. Thicken gravy 
in pan with 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 t-ablespoonful butter. 
Add 1 pint cold water, season with salt and pepper, stir 
until it boils and thickens, pour over beef olives, boil 10 
minutes, and place in Cooker 3j/^ to 4 hours. 

Sweetbreads — Wash and place in cold water for 30 
minutes, then carefully oull off all the tough and fibrous 
skin. Cover with boiling water, boil 10 minutes, place 
in Cooker 3 hours or even all night. Beef sweetbreads 
are rendered delicious by the long period. On removing 
from Cooker drop into very cold water. They are then 
ready to be creamed, fried, etc. 

Creamed Sweetbreads — Cut the boiled sweetbreads in 
very small pieces, season with salt and pepper and moist- 
en well witli cream sauce. Boil 3 minutes and return to 
Cooker to blend with the sauce for 30 minutes. They are 
then ready for patties, etc. 

Breaded Sweetbreads — After being boiled, split them 
and season with salt and pepper, dip in beaten egg and 
cracker crum])s. Fry in deep fat until a light brown. 
Serve with tliin crisp bacon. 

VEGETABLES. 
SPECIAL NOTES. 
Read carefully before cooking any vegetable. 

Winter vegetables require a few minutes longer boil- 
ing than the more tender ones of summer. Drain cauli- 
flower, cabbage, potatoes and onions immediately on re- 
moving from cooker. A dash of cold water on cauli- 
flower will blanch it. Cream or serve cold as salad. All 
other vegetables are sweeter if allowed to cool in the 
water in which they are cooked. They can be drained 
and reheated with butter, pepper and salt, or creamed if 
desired. Potatoes may be cooked dry by boiling 10 min- 
utes, drain and dry over fire for a moment and place 
quickly in Cooker for the usual time over boiling food 
or water. Unpeeled potatoes may be left in Cooker 
8 hours without becoming watersoaked; remove from 
Cooker and shaKe over dry heat as usual. 

Plain Boiled Potatoes — Pare, cut in lialf if large. Cov- 

13 



cr with plenty of boiling salted water. Boil hard 5 min- 
utes, in Cooker 1>4 hours. Drain very thoroughly and 
dry on stove over hot plate or low fire, shaking hard all 
the time. Remove from direct heat and cover with a 
clean napkin for a few minutes when they will be mealy 
and dry. For mashed potatoes, mash thoroughly, add 
milk and a small piece of butter. Beat very light with 
a slit spoon or a fork. The longer they are beaten, the 
fluffier they become. Pile lightly in a hot dish and 
serve at once. 

Creamed Potatoes — Slice or dice cold boiled potatoes, 

cover with milk. Let come to a boil, add butter, pepper 
and salt to taste, add 1 tablespoontul of flour mixed in a 
little cold water, boil up well and place in Cooker 1 hour 
or longer if desired, or make a white sauce and pour 
over potatoes. Boil up and place in Cooker 1 hour to 
blend. 

Cream Carrots — Scrape and cut carrots in rounds, boil 
10 minutes on stove, set in Cooker over night. Remove, 
cool, drain in colander, partly cover with milk, return 
to stove. Boil up, thicken with flour and water passed 
through a strainc;r; butter, pepper and salt to taste. Boil 
5 minutes, stirring to prevent burning, then set back in 
Cooker for at least 30 minutes, to blend with the sauce. 

Plain boiled cabbage, cauliflower, celery or salsify are 
delicious reheated in milk and creamed according to recipe 
given for creamed carrots. 

Reject coarse heart of cabbage and break cauliflower 
into pieces. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that 
the flavor of all vegetables is improved by being returned 
to Cooker to blend with the sauce. 

Cabbage or Caulifllower au Gratin — Take plain boiled 
cabbage or cauliflower and follow rule for creaming car- 
rots. Place in a buttered baking dish or individual shells. 
Cover top with buttered crumbs and over all a grating 
of cheese. Bake in -a. hot oven 20 minutes or until brown. 

Cabbage creamed, or au gratin, is more delicate than 
cauliflower. 

Beets — New beets will cook in 6J/2 hours if covered 
with plenty of boiling water — on removing from Cooker, 
turn into colander and rub skin off quickly, slice across 
and place in a hot dish, season with salt, pepper and a 
generous quantity of melted butter. 

Canned Vegetables are improved by the Cooker. Use 
1/2 the usual quantity of milk on corn. Season with but- 

14 



ter, Dcpper and salt. Thicken and season tomatoes and 
otlier vegetables as if for serving. Boil up on stove 2 
minutes, place in Cooker 1 to 2 hours or longer if desired. 

Macaroni — Macaroni must be removed from Cooker 
and drained at end of two hour period. It may then be 
returned to Cooker and placed over other food or boiling 
water, to keep hot until wanted. Can be prepared at 
noon and kept hot in this manner until evening. 

Special attention it. drawn to the nourishment con- 
tained in Cooker cooked macaroni or spaghetti. The ex- 
pansion is so great that it is as tender cold as hot, thus 
permitting preparation in advance of use. 

It may be served with meat stews as a substitute for 
potatoes, as a separate dish with tomato or cream sauce, 
or baked. 

Macaroni, Plain Boiled — One-half lb. macaroni, 2 quarts 
boiling salted water. Break macaroni in 2 inch lengths 
and drop into the boiling salted water. Stir occasionally 
with a fork until it boils again to prevent settling and 
sticking to bottom. Boil 5 minutes and place in Cooker 
for 2 hours. Drain and serve with tomato sauce, cream 
«auce, or bake. 

Tomato Sauce — Two tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
*ponnfuls flour, !>< cups tomato juice, 1 teaspoonful beef 
extract, 1 cup grated cheese, or if soft cheese 3 heaped 
tablespoonfuls. Season to taste with salt and a dash of 
red pepper. Rub butter, flour and cheese together, warm- 
ing a little to melt, then add cold tomato juice, stirring 
constantly until it boils and thickens. Lastly, add beef 
extract. Pour this sauce over hot macaroni. Mix lightly 
with two forks and serve. If cheese is dry and grated it 
may be added to sauce last. For cream sauce use milk 
instead of tomato juice and omit beef extract. 

Tomato Sauce (2) — -Inexpensive and delicious. 1 small 
onion, Y-z can tomatoes, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon 
flour, salt and pepper. Slice onion thin and fry golden 
brown in the butter, add tomatoes, boil 10 minutes. Mix 
flour smooth in ^4 cup cold water, add to boiling tomatoes, 
boil 2 minutes. Serve with plain boiled macaroni or 
spaghetti. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese — Prepare as for plain 
macaroni. Drain and mix with cream sauce. Turn into 
buttered baking dish. Have ready Yz cup grated cheese, 
V2 cuo bread crumbs. Sorinkle over the macaroni and 
brown in oven about 20 minutes. Or butter the bottorn 
of a baking dish, then alternate layers of plain macaroni 

15 



with layers of grated cheese, dabs of butter, a sprinkle of 
salt and a very little cayenne pepper. Add some buttered 
bread crumbs to the cheese for the last layer. Moisten 
with a little cream or milk poured in at the sides and 
bake 30 minutes. 



Macaroni Croquettes — Break Yz lb. macaroni in Yi. inch 
pieces and follow rule for plain boiled macaroni. Make 
a cream sauce of 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour, 
XYz cups milk, ^ teaspoon salt, a dash of red pepper, 
adding last ^ cup grated cheese. Drain macaroni thor- 
oughly and stir into sauce. Spread on a buttered plate 
to cool, then form into balls or little rolls and dip in fine 
crumbs, then beaten egg and again in crumbs. Fry in 
deep fat. Drain on paper and serve hot. 

Baked Beans — One quart navy beans, XYj, quarts wa- 
ter, 34 teaspoonful baking soda, Y2 lb. salt pork, 4 table- 
spoonfuls molasses 1 tablcspoonful English mustard, 1 
teaspoonful salt. Wash beans and cover with plenty of 
warm water. Soak 9 to 10 hours, or over night. Drain 
and adu the fresh cold water and baking soda. Bring 
slowly to a boil and skim well. Boil 30 minutes. Remove 
rind from pork, cut in two-inch lengths, mix mustard, salt 
and molasses until smooth. Add this and the pork to beans, 
boil 10 minutes longer. Place in Cooker 10 hours, or 
over night. Remove from Cooker and turn into a round 
baking dish, arranging pork in a circle even with top of 
beans. Bake one hour in hot oven, or until brown. C 
sugar may be substituted for molasses, or if New Orleans 
molasses is used, a little more soda is necessary. Golden 
syrup gives a more delicate flavor than New Orleans 
molasses. 

Stewed Beans to be served without baking require Y2 
cup less water. Brisket beef may be substituted for pork 
if desired. 



DESSERTS. 

SPECIAL NOTES. 

Read carefully before cooking any rice. 

Rice should be washed in cold water until the last 

water looks clear. Drain and follow any desired recipe. 

Rice in milk should be placed over fire cold. Let 

16 



come slowly to the boil, stirring occasionally to prevent 
settling and sticking. 

Plain Rice (Chinese Rice) — One cup rice, 9 cups boil- 
in,-:; salted water, .t levispooniuls salt, wash rice in cold 
water, drain and shake into the fast boiling salted wa- 
t'-r. Stir with a fork or wire egg beater to prevent set- 
tling until it boils again, then boi! hard for 5 minutes. 
Place in Cooker for exactly 30 minutes, or 25 minutes if 
broken rice, remove and drain in a clean colander, cover 
with a clean napkin. Set back over the hot kettle or in 
the oven for a few minutes to steam dry, or drain as you 
would potatoes, being careful not to shake, or the 
rice will matt — each grain should be distinct and full. 

Another Way — Wash and soak rice in cold water 8 or 
10 hours. Drain and oroceed as for jdain rice, or follow 
rule for rice in milk. The grains will be abnormally large. 

Note — Rice with chicken or any meat tnust be cooked 
separately in plain boiling salted water as for "Chinese 
Rice " and added to meat when gravy is made, then set 
back in Cooker to blend and ripen. If cooked with the 
meat the expansion is so great that all the moisture is 
aDsorbcd and botli rice and meat remain hard and under 
(lone. 

Rice Croquettes — Take cold boiled rice, allow 1 tea- 
spoonful of buttir and 1 beaten egg to each cup of cold 
boiled rice. Mi.x and roll into oval balls with floured 
hands, dip in beaten egg then in cracker crumbs and fry 
in deep fat like doughnuts. Drain on brown paper and 
serve hot with meat course. 

Escalloped Rice — One cup rice, 9 cups water, 3 cups 
grated cheese, 1 cup rich milk, 4 tablespoonfuls butter, J/a 
cup bread crumbs. Wash rice and drain. Add slowly to 
boiling salted water and boil hard 5 minutes; in Cooker 
30 minutes. Drain in strainer. Place in a buttered bak- 
i'lg dish, a layer of rice, then a liberal layer of cheese, 
» faint dash of cayenne pepper and dabs of butter, then 
mother layer of rice, cheese, etc.. to top of dish. Toss 
the crumbs in a little melted butter and sprinkle on top 
layer. I'our over ;ill, the milk and IraKe '.-^ hour. Serve 
hot. 

Rice or Tapioca in Milk — One cup rice or tapioca, 
554 cups milk or half milk and half water, Ys cup sugar, 
1 teaspoonful salt, flavor with grated nutmeg. Set over 
fire cold and let come slowly (o boil, stirrine with a fork 
to pre\ent sticking, th .i Doil 5 minutes and place in Cook- 

17 



er 2 hours or longer. Some rice is very dry and if the 
center of the grain remains hard, add more liqu.d for 
expansion. Some poor grades of rice never soften in the 
center. 

Rice or Tapioca Custard — Take y^ cup rice or tapioca 
to 5 cups milk, and follow rule for rice in milk. On re- 
moving Irom Cooker set the kettle in boiling water and 
add two well beaten eggs. Bring the water in lower kettle 
to a quick boil, then remove rice to Cooker for 30 min- 
utes. Vanilla flavoring may be used instead of nutmeg 
if preferred. 

Rice and Fruit. — I'ollow rule for ric or tapioca cus- 
tard, but reserve the whites of the eggs for a meringue. 
L^ine a deep dish with the rice, then place a layer of Cook- 
er-cooked fruit on it; whip the whites of the eggs stiff, 
adding a little sugar. Cover rice and fruit mixture with 
this and set it in the oven till light brown. 

Taoioca and Sago, soared and cooked with fruit juices 
instead of water make delicious and dainty desserts. The 
juice of cranberries stewed and strained, currants, rasp- 
berries, cherries, orange or lemon may be used. Sweeten 
juice before measuring. 

When using juice strained from canned or preserved 
fruits, reserve the whole fruit and pour over it the cooked 
fruit tapioca. Chill and serve with whipped or plain 
cream and sugar. 

Pearl tapioca shduld be covered with plenty of cold 
water and soaked not less than 8 hours or more than 
12. Drain and cook according to rule. In using gelatine 
for fruit shapes, it will not set if allowed to boil. If 
desired, sago may be used as a substitute for gelatine. 
Follow rule for sago. 

Tapioca Sponge — Follow rule for tapioca in milk, sub- 
•^tituting vanilla flavoring for nutmeg. Remove tapioca 
from Cooker, place on stove over boiling water, and whip 
into it. the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Beat hard 
until it appears to set. Chill and serve with cream. 

Pineapple Tapioca — 1 cup plain tapioca. Cooker-cooked 
in water_, 3 cups sugar, juice of 1 lemon, 1 can chopped 
or 1 fresh pineapple, shredded, whites of 3 eggs beaten 
stiff. Add sugar, fruit, and last, gradually, the stiffly 
beaten ^^^ whites. Beat well and boil up once. Chill 
and serve. Cranberries may be used in place of pineapple. 

Fresh Fruits — Rhubarb and apple sauce which require 

18 



but a tew minutes (|uick boiling cire not bcnelittod by 
fireless cooking, as they acquire a stronger ilavor and 
turn dark. 

Whole Apples in Syrup — Make a rich syrup, 1 cup wa 
ter to 1 Oi sugar or a plain syrup, J/2 cup sugar to 1 cup 
water, flavored with whole spices tied in a bag. Have 
ready whole apples pared and cored. Remove spice bag 
and pour the boiling syrup over apples, covering fully. 
Boil 5 minutes on stove, place in Cooker 4 or 5 hours, 
filling other utensils with boiling food or water as usual 
One tablespoonful sherry wine may be added just before 
removing from fire or when flavor is preferred use a few 
slices of lemon and omit spices. An inverted plate or 
s'aucer placed over apples before covering will prevent 
them rising out of syrup. Allow apples to cool in syrup 
and serve very cold with whipped cream, adding a red 
cherry to the center for effect. Cover spice bag and bot- 
tle extra syrup for future use. Cook early apples half time. 

Pears — Pare, cut in lialf and follow the apt)le recipe. 

Pears in claret — Make a syrup of 2 cups claret to 1 
cup sugar, 6 whole cloves. Boil syrup 5 minutes, add 
pears previously peeled and cored and proceed as for 
whole apples in syrup. 

Crab Apples — Follow rule for apple syrup. Boil two 
minutes only in syrup without coring or paring. 

Cranberries — One quart berries, 2 cups sugar, IJ/2 cups 
water. Roil 5 minutes, ])lace in Cooker 4 hours, or over 
night if desired. The berries will fill and come out whole. 



DRIED FRUITS. 

SPECIAL NOTES. 

' Read carefully before cooking any fruit.. 

Dried and Evaporated Fruits swell to their natural size, 
tender as jelly and equal to the best home-made preserves. 

NOTE. — Dried and evaporated fruits acquire a strong, 
disagreeable flavor, and turn dark if boiled longer than 
specified. Bring quickly to the boil and follow rules for 
boiling time accurately. 

Acid fruit juices left over from apples, apricots, plums, 
etc., may be used to make a delicious fruit tapioca. Sweet- 
en to taste before measuring. Add a little seasoning of 
lemon and nutmeg or cinnamon to apple juice. 

19 



Preparation — Pick over fruit carefully, cover with 
plenty of cold water, and let stand for aljout ten minutes 
to soften any dirt. Then wash in at least three waters, 
rubbing lightly between the hands. Lastly, turn into col- 
ander or sieve and rinse. Return fruit to kettle, cover 
to twice its depth with ct)ld water, and soak 8 — 10 
hours or over night. Longer than 12 hours destroys the 
flavor. 

Apricots tire especially delicate and desirable when 
Cooker-cooked. The small grade and bright appearance 
have the l)est flavor. 

Pitted Plums make an excellent filling for pies and 
steamed puddings or a delicate tart fruit sauce. 

Prunes — A pitted prune may he had which is not only 
delicious and economical for sauce but very desirable for 
fruit shapes, pies, puddings, etc. The prune fills out as 
perfectly as the prune with a stone. 

Peaches — Some brands of peaches will peel after soak- 
ing. Slip the skin ofT with the fingers and drop each half- 
peach thus peeled into another kettle until all are done. 
Then strain the water in which they were soaked back 
over them. This prevents scraps of skin disfiguring the 
clear juice and the fruit thus carefully prepared quite re- 
pays the extra trouble. On the other hand, evaporated 
and peeled peaches may be had which quite equal the 
fresh fruit preserve. 

Process — Place fruit over fire in water in which it was 
soaked, using Cookei kettles. Add sugar at once and 
more water if necessary, as the liquid should cover the 
fruit about 1 inch before boiling begins. After boiling 
begins, the amount of liquid is not discernible as the fruit 
rises to the surface. 

Frozen Desserts — Cooker-cooked dried fruits will be 
found superior to the canned variety for making frozen 
desserts, sherbets, etc. Use any favorite recipe. 

Process — Strain off juice and rub fruit through a sieve, 
or a more convenient method is to use a flour sifter. Add 
pulp to juice, and to each quart thus prepared allow 1 cup 
sugar, 2 tablespoons lemon juice and 1 tablespoon gela- 
tine, previously dissolved in ]4 cup water. Freeze to a 
mush. 1 pint of stiffly whipped cream beaten into the 
rrappe at this point makes a delicious sorbet, but is not 
necessary. Do not serve for two hours after adding 
cream. 

20 



Fruit Whip — Wlup one pint of cream very stilf and 
stir into it 1 cupful of any kind of finely cut Cooker- 
cooked dried fruit, drained free from juice. Sweeten cream 
for acid fruits. Chill and serve. 

Evaporated Apricot Sponge — Two cups Cooker-cooked 
apricots, 1 cup su.nar. 1 cup apricot juice or juice and 
water, >_> packat;e s^elatine, whites of 3 eggs. Soak gela- 
tine in ^2 cup cold water. Boil juice and sugar for 
ten minutes. Mash the apricots tine and rub through a 
strainer. Add to syrup, boil 2 minutes, stirring constantly. 
I'lace this kettle in another of boiling water, add gelatine, 
.•^tir until it is (juite dissolved. Remove the kettle to a 
dish of ice water and beat the mixture until it begins to 
cool. Then add the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs and 
continue beating until slightly stiff. When it will just 
pour, turn into one large or several small moulds, pre- 
viously wet with cold wate, and serve with plain or whip- 
ped cream and sugar. This rule also applies to Cooker- 
cooked cranberries, evaporated plums or peaches, using 
y'z cup less sugar for peaches. 

Dried Fruits — Apricots, prunelles, pitted plums, 
peaches without skins, 1 lb. fruit, ^ lb. or 1/2 cups sugar. 
I'oil 1 minutes; in Cooker, 8 hours or over night. 

Peaches with skins, prunes without stones, pears, nec- 
tarines, 1 11). fruit, Yi lb. or 1 cup sugar. Boil prunes 
and nectarines 1 minutes, peaches and pears 5 minutes; 
in Cooker, 8 hours or over night. 

Prunes with stones, 1 lb. fruit, V^, lb. or >^ cup sugar. 
Boil 5 minutes; in Cooker, 8 hours or all night. 

Apples — 1 lb. fruit, Yi lb. sugar, J/^ lemon sliced, stick 
cinnamon and a small bit of ginger root. Each 5 minutes 
on stove, 8 hours in Cooker. 

Prunes in Claret — Wash and cover with water 1 pound 
large prunes. Let soak over night or all day. When put 
on to boil they should be covered with about 1 inch of 
water. Boil 5 minutes and add 1 cup claret. When this 
begins to boil, place quicklv in Cooker for 8 or 10 hours. 

Jellied Prunes, AoricotS, etc. — One pound Cooker 
Cooked prunes, ^ box gelatine, Y^ cup sugar, soak gela- 
tine in 1/2 cup cold water, strain juice from prunes into a 
small saucepan, aad sugar and enough boiling water to 
make one pint of liauid, boil 5 minutes. Remove from 
fire and add gelatine. Stir until fully dissolved. Remove 
stones from prunes ;ina pour the jelly over them. Mould 
and chill. Serve with whipned cream and sugar. 

21 



Jeilied Prunes — (2). Use the largest grades of 
prunes, remove stones, fill the cavities with chopped nuts, 
raisins or dates, cover with gelatine mixture as usual and 
set away to harden. Note. — The juice of a lemon added 
to the gelatine mixture makes an agreeable change. 



Prune Whip — One lb. Cooker-cooked prunes, I/2 cup 
sugar, J/2 cup cream, Yz teaspoon vanilla. Drain prunes, 
remove stones, chop or mash till smooth, add cream, 
sugar and flavoring, and beat with egg beater until light. 
Chill and serve with the prune juice as sauce. Prune 
juice may be boiled down to a thick syrup if desired ancl 
a dash of lemon juice added. 



Spiced Prunes (delicious with cold meats) — Two lbs. 
prunes, 4/2 cups sugar, 1 cup prune water, 2 cups vinegar, 
Yi teaspoonful whole allspice, Y^- tcaspoonful whole cloves. 
Use the best grade of prunes. Wash and cover with 
fresh cold water. Soak 8 hours or over night. Drain and 
prepare a pickling syrup of the vinegar and the water in 
which prunes were soaked. Add sugar and spice, boil 10 
m'nutes, pour over nrunes. Boil 5 minutes, in Cooker 
8 hoUij, or all nit?ht. Remove from Cooker, let cool in 
syrup and stand for 24 hours before using. Do not use 
too much water in soaking prunes, as only 1 cup is used 
with the vinegar. The balance mtiy be sweetened to taste 
and flavored with a dash of lemon juice or vinegar. Boil 
10 minutes and use as a fruit syrup +0 serve with cereals 
or puddiiigs. 

Whole Figs— Soak 8 hours, or over night. Boil 5 
minutes. No sugar required. Place in Cooker 8 or 9 
hours, or over night. They should be covered by about 
1 inch of water when placed over fire. 

Figs with Fruit Juice — One lb. figs, juice of 2 oranges 
and 1 lemon, Y2 cu]) sugar. Add enough of the water in 
wliich figs were soaked to cover by nbout an inch when 
placed over fire. Boil 5 minutes. Place in Cooker 6 
hours or over night if more convenient. 



Figs with Ginger — One pound figs, Y2 cup sugar, juice 
of 1 lemon, a little of the yellow rind, green ginger root 
about the length of a finger. Peel ginger and cut in 
shreds. Liquid should cover figs about 1 inch when placed 
over fire. Follow usual rule for cooking. On removing 
from Cooker, drain syrup from figs and simmer gently 
until quite thick. Pour back over figs, chill, and serve 
with cream. 

22 



BROWN BREAD AND STEAMED PUDDINGS. 

Brown Bread and Steamed Puddings are better put on 
to steam in cold water which is then brought to a boil 
and kept constantly boiling for the required time. Place 
a small wire coffee pot stand or inverted perforated pie 
tin in bottom of water kettle under mould, while on 
fire — use regular moulds, baking powder tins or small 
lard kettles, grease well and fill two-thirds full. Steam 30 
minutes on fire and place in Cooker over large lower 
kettle full of boiling food or water. Mix dry soda with a 
little granulated sugar until the soda granules disappear, 
then -add to flour or liquid as usual. 

Brown Bread — Two cups Graham or rye meal, 2 cups 
yellow cornmeal. 1 cup molasses, -}4 cup sour milk, 3 cups 
cold water, I'/t teaspoonfuls soda, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
teaspoonful sugar. Rub soda, sugar and salt together 
until all soda granules disappear, add to meal and sift. 
Then beat together thoroughly with the milk and mo- 
lasses. Pour into a buttered mould or kettle, filling 
two-thirds full. Put on stove over cold water. Boil 30 
minutes, place in Cooker for 6 hours, then in a hot oven 
for 20 to 30 minutes or until brown. 

Brown Bread — One cup flour, 2 cups yellow cornmeal, 
1 cuo molasses, 2y2 cups milk (turned), 1^ teaspoonfuls 
sola, 1 teaspoonful salt, a small bit of ginger. Steam J^ 
hour, place in Cooker for 6 hours. Then bake 5^4 hour, 
or until brown. 

Plain Fruit Pudding — One cup fruit, 3 cups flour, 1 cuj) 
raisins, 1 cup milk, 1 cup New Orleans molasses, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 tcasDOonful salt, 1 teaspoonful ginger, 1 
teaspoonful cinnamon, ]/> teaspoonful cloves. Steam 30 
minutes, in Cooker 6 hours. 

Fruit Pudding No. 2 — '/4 cup butter, J^ cup sugar, 1>4 
cups flour, grated peel of 1 lemon, 3 eggs, 1/2 lb. raisins, 
I'i lb. candied citron, 4 figs, I1/2 cups flour. Cream butter 
and suga.' together, add eggs beaten very light. When 
thoroughly mixed, stir in flour and grated lemon peel, 
mince citron and figs, seed and halve raisins, dust well 
with flour and stir into batter. Pour into buttered motild 
Steam 30 minutes. In Cooker 6 hours. 

Apricot Pudding — One lb. Cooker cooked apricots, l]4 
cups flour, 2 level teaspoonfuls baking powder, i^ tea- 
spoon.^il salt, 2 fablcspoonfuls uutter, 1 cup milk. Put 
baking powder and salt in flour and sift twice, chop fat 
into this with a knife. Add milk and mix to a c'^ugh. 
Strain tlie juice from tlic apricots and reserve it for sauce 

23 



AUG 8 1910 



for the pudding. Butter a mould or small kettle. Cover 
with an inch of dough, then a layer of tipricots, then more 
dough and so on until you have used up all your mate- 
rials, leaving dough for last layer. Cover closely and 
steam 30 minutes. Place in Cooker 5 to 6 hours. 

Sauce — b^train and heat the apricot juice. Ihicken with 
a tablespoonful each of flour and butter. Add one table- 
sponful sugar. Boil 3 minutes. 

Bread raising — Mix yeast batter, set in Cooker over 
warm water for 1 hour. Mix into dough. Return to 
Cooker for 2 hours. Mould into loaves. Raise and hake. 
Or place the larger kettle Hlled with boiling water in 
Cooker; leave until interior is well heated, then remove 
water and set sponge in Cooker to raise. 

ADDENDA. 

Barley Water for Infants Formula given by Miss Grayce 
(j. Welch, Dietitian Jackson Park Sanitarium. One ounce 
pearl barley grains, 1 d'am salt, 1 quart water. Boil 1 hour on 
stove, place in cooker for I2 hours. Remove from cooker and 
strain. This gives a barley water with value of 3 calories per 
ounce. This process takes the place of 10 hours boiling on the 
fire. 




THE SEELY SANITARY FIRELESS COOKER 

24 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH iiiHiiiiin 

014 639 280 5 



The Seely Sanitary Fireless Cooker 

is indispensable to 
Superior Fireless Cookery 

All metal, copper lined, steam tight, 
no cushions or felt. Perfect insulation, 
cooks without reheating, foods com- 
pletely expanded. Compact, five sizes to 
suit every requirement. Made only by 

The Frances A. Seely Co. 

5809 Rosalie Court, Chicago. 



