
THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 





PRACTICAL 

COOK BOOK 




TEACHER OF COOKERY 



SAN FRANCISCO 

PAYOT, STRATFORD & KERR PRINT 
1908 



Copyright 1908 
Miss Susanne Tracy 



PREFACE 

In presenting these pages to the public, I do so at the earnest 
solicitation of many of my pupils who would have in book form my 
recipes and suggestions. I therefore put into print this pamphlet of 
recipes where the formula is given, followed by the explicit directions 
of how to put together the ingredients ; with such notes and hints as 
may be of value to the housewife. 

The directions are not theories, but the fruits of practical experi- 
ence. The arrangement of the subject-matter is designed to make 
the book a household reference book that may be depended upon. 



Soups 



There are two kinds of soup stock : what is known as clear stock 
and mixed stock. To make a clear soup we always use fresh meat 
and bone ; the mixed stock being made from bones and pieces of 
meat left from roasts and cooked meats. 

As this latter is made from bits of meat and bone left over, no 
household should be without a stock-pot. Into the stock-pot should 
go only such meat and bone as is perfectly sweet, the smallest piece 
of tainted meat will destroy the soup. Stock can be cooked on the 
back of the stove while other cooking is going on. It should be 
cooled quickly and not allowed to stand on the stove to cool slowly. 
Stock allowed to cool slowly becomes sour very readily. 

To prepare soup bone for clear stock remove the outer skin from 
the meat and bone, wipe carefully with a wet cloth. (Do not put 
into a pan of water and wash, as the water draws out the juices, 
which should be kept for the soup.) Have the butcher break the 
bone in many pieces. In buying a soup bone buy half meat and 
half bone. 

AVhite stock is made from chicken and veal. 

Allow one quart of water to each pound of meat and bone. 

CLEAR BEEF STOCK. 

Buy a shin or shank of beef, having half meat and half bone 
(about five pounds) ; remove the skin. Have the butcher break the 
bone and cut the meat into small pieces; add five quarts of cold 
water and two teaspoonfuls of salt; let come to a boil slowly; place 
where it will keep just below the boiling point; simmer slowly for 
six or eight hours, or until the meat falls from the bone; strain and 
cool quickly ; when cold skim off the fat. For beef broth heat the 
plain beef stock, season with salt, pepper and a little minced parsley, 
find serve. This is the simplest form of beef soup. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Strain the soup stock, after removing the fat, into a kettle; do not 
allow the sediment to pass. To four quarts of stock add one small 
onion cut fine, one bay leaf, one stalk of celery, two sprigs of parsley. 
a small bouqut of sweet herbs, ten pepper corns, and six cloves; boil 
gently for fifteen minutes; strain through strainer cloth. Serve as a 
simple beef soup. 



MIXED STOCK. 

Cover with cold water the trimmings, tough pieces of meat and 
bone left from roasts and broils; allow one teaspoonful of salt for 
each quart of water; cook slowly for about four hours; then add 
half an onion, six cloves, six pepper corns, two sprigs of thyme, one 
bay leaf; simmer for two hours longer; strain and cool quickly. 
This stock can be used in sauces or served as a simple soup, gar- 
nished with vegetables or some well-cooked tapioca or sago. 

CHICKEN STOCK. 

Select a hen fowl (not as strong flavored as a rooster) ; singe and 
scrub ; prepare as for roasting, omitting the stuffing ; place in a kettle 
and cover with boiling water ; cook slowly until the fowl is tender ; 
remove from broth, cooling the broth quickly; when cold, remove 
the fat. The chicken may be used for salad, creamed chicken, hash, 
or served as cold boiled chicken. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

To one quart of chicken broth add four tablespoonfuls of boiled 
rice and two teaspoonfuls of minced parsley ; heat boiling hot ; sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and serve. 

BOUILLON. 

Five pounds of beef, taken from One tablespoonful of minced 

the round, onion, 

Two and one-half quarts of cold. One small stalk of celery, 

water, One sprig of parsley, 

One level teaspoonful of salt, Four cloves and four pepper corns. 

One carrot. 

Cut the meat into small pieces; cover with cold water and add 
the salt; let come to the boiling point slowly; simmer from six to 
eight hours ; add the seasoning and cook one-half-hour longer ; strain 
and cool quickly ; next morning remove the fat ; heat scalding hot ; 
season with salt and pepper and serve. In making bouillon all the 
seasoning except salt and pepper may be omitted if preferred. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Two quarts of beef stock, One-fourth cupful of barley. 

One carrot, One onion, 

One-half medium-sized yellow Two potatoes, small, 

turnip, Salt and pepper. 
Two stalks of celery, 

Cook the barley in one quart of water for two hours ; add the stock 
and all the vegetables, cut fine, except the potatoes; boil gently for 
an hour, or until the vegetables are almost tender; then add the 
potatoes and cook fifteen minutes ; season with salt and pepper. 



SOUPS 7 

CONSOMME. 

One quart of chicken or veal Two tablespoonfuls of minced 

stock, onion, 

One quart of beef stock, Two cupfuls of carrots, parsnips, 

Four cloves, and yellow turnip, cut fine, 

One inch piece each of mace and One-half bay leaf, 

cinnamon, Four pepper corns, 

Two eggs, One small stalk of celery, 

One sprig of parsley, Rind and juice of half a lemon. 

Brown the vegetables in bacon fat, taking care not to let them burn ; 
add them and the spices to the stock and cook slowly one and one- 
half hours ; strain and remove the fat ; break the whites and shells of 
the eggs into one cupful of cold water and mix thoroughly; add to 
the soup and let come to the boiling point; add lemon, salt and 
pepper ; cook slowly twenty minutes ; strain through a strainer cloth 
which has been wet in cold water; reheat the soup; garnish each 
plate with a thin slice of lemon and three allspice berries; serve very 
'hot. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

One calf's head, Four allspice, 

Four quarts cold water, Four pepper corns, 

One tablespoonful of salt, One blade of mace, 

One carrot, One chili, 

One turnip, One quart brown stock, 

Two onions, Three eggs, 

('elery stalk, One lemon, 

One-half inch stick of cinnamon, Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 

Four cloves, Two tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Wash, scrape and clean the head and soak an hour or more in cold 
water ; remove the brains and tongiTe and let stand in cold water to 
be cooked separately: cut the head in many pieces, put into the 
kettle ; add the cold water and heat slowly ; skim thoroughly ; add the 
salt and simmer three hours, or until the meat slips from the bones ; 
lay the meat fiat on a plate so it can be easily cut when cold ; put the 
bones on to boil again; add the spices and vegetables and simmer 
until reduced to two quarts ; strain and set aside to cool ; when cold 
remove the fat ; half an hour before serving put the stock on to boil. 
In another saucepan brown the butter; add the cornstarch or flour 
and brown ; add one saltspoonful each of ground pepper, thyme or 
marjoram, and one teaspoonful of salt ; add the brown stock and 
cook until it thickens, add to the soup ; cut the face meat into half- 
inch cubes ; add one cup of meat, diced ; boil the eggs twenty minutes 
and cut into slices, or make the yolks into egg balls. Make force meat 
balls with the reserve meat. Put the meat balls and hard-boiled eggs 
into the tureen ; add the soup and serve with slices of lemon, or omit 
the lemon and add half a cup of sherry wine. 



g . PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Two quarts of beef stock, One cupful of vermicelli, 

One teaspoonful of salt, One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Dash of cayenne pepper, 

Cook the vermicelli in boiling water about fifteen minutes ; drain ; 
heat the stock boiling hot; season with salt and pepper; add the 
vermicelli, and serve. The vermicelli may be broken or left whole, 
according to fancy. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

One quart of stock, Two sticks of macaroni, 

One teaspoonful of salt, One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Break the macaroni into small pieces; drop into boiling salted 
water and cook rapidly until the macaroni is tender ; drain and allow 
the cold water to run over it; cut into one-fourth-inch pieces; heat 
the stock boiling hot ; season with pepper and salt ; add the macaroni, 
and serve. 

MULLIGATAWNEY. 

Fowl, three pounds, One-half teaspoonful of pepper, 

Two large onions, Veal, three pounds, 

Three stalks of celery, One small carrot 

One tablespoonful of curry pow- Four tablespoonfuls of butter, 

der. Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

Five tablespoonfuls of flour, Five quarts of water. 

Cut the veal into small pieces ; dress the fowl as if for roasting ; 
put into the soup kettle ; add the water ; cover and let come to the 
boiling point ; simmer for four hours, or until the fowl is tender ; re- 
move the fowl from the kettle ; put butter or chicken fat into a 
saucepan ; cut vegetables very fine ; cook in the butter fifteen 
minutes; skim the vegetables out of the fat and add them to the 
soup ; to the fat add the flour and cook until .brown ; then add the 
curry powder ; add the whole to the soup, and cook for two hours ; 
season with salt and pepper, then strain and skim ; remove skin and 
bone from the chicken ; cut into small pieces ; return the soup to the 
soup kettle after straining ; add the chicken, and simmer gently for 
thirty minutes; serve with boiled rice. 

Note. To skim soup when you cannot allow it to stand until cold. 
Pour the soup into a bowl just large enough to hold it ; set the bowl 
on a plate or in another vessel and fill until it runs over; let stand 
two or three minutes, then slowly pour a little cold water in at one 
side, and the fat will run over into the plate. 



SOUPS 9 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart can of tomatoes, One tablespoonful of minced pars- 
One tablespoonful of sugar, ley, 

Four cloves, One pint of water, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One pint of soup stock or water, 

One tablespoonful of minced Four pepper corns, 

onion, Two teaspoonfuls of salt. 
One tablespoonful of cornstarch, 

To the tomatoes add the water, sugar, cloves, and pepper corn; 
stew slowly until the tomatoes are tender ; press through a strainer ; 
remove only the seeds and skin. To the stewed and strained tomatoes 
add the soup stock or water. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the 
onion and parsley and cook until lightly browned, then add the corn- 
starch and cook together ; slowly add one cupful of the stock, stirring 
until it forms a smooth sauce ; add to the soup and cook fifteen min- 
utes ; season with salt and pepper, strain, and serve with croutons. 

CROUTONS. 

Butter and cut into one-half-inch dice a slice of stale bread one- 
half inch in thickness ; toast until nicely browned ; serve with soup. 

FORCE-MEAT BALLS OF COOKED MEAT. 

One cup of cooked meat, One-half saltspoonful of pepper, 

One teaspoonful of chopped pars- Yolk of one egg, 

ley, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One teaspoonful of lemon juice, One tablespoonful of flour, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, A few drops of onion juice. 

Chop the meat very fine ; add the seasoning ; add the yolk of the 
egg, beaten, and mix until smooth. Make into balls the size of a 
nutmeg; roll in flour; put butter in omelet pan; when brown put in 
the balls and cook until brown ; shake the pan occasionally to pre- 
vent burning. 

EGG BALLS. 

Boil three eggs twenty minutes ; put them in cold water and when 
cool remove the shells; cut carefully through the white and remove 
the yolks whole ; cut into quarters and serve in soup, or rub yolks to 
a smooth paste ; add one teaspoonful of melted butter ; one saltspoon- 
ful of salt ; a speck of pepper. Moisten with the beaten white or yolk 
of one raw egg, using enough to shape easily ; shape into balls about 
the size of a nutmeg ; roll in flour and fry in butter until brown, or 
drop into the hot soup and cook five minutes. 



Cream Soups 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 

Save the water in which the asparagus has been cooked; make a 
cream sauce of two tablespoonfuls of butter; two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, two cupfuls of rich milk and one level teaspoonful of salt ; put 
the butter into a saucepan and melt ; add the flour and cook together, 
being careful not to allow it to brown; add the milk cold, stirring 
constantly until it thickens ; then add the water, about one quart ; 
season with salt and pepper, and serve. The tender tips of asparagus 
may be served in the soup as a garnish. 

CREAM OF CELERY. 

Make a celery broth by stewing some tough bits of celery in water 
until the water is nicely flavored ; cook together one tablespoonful of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour; then add two cupfuls of 
celery broth, cold; stir until it thickens; add another cupful of the 
broth and a cupful of rich milk; heat to the boiling point; season 
with salt and pepper, and serve. 

CREAM OF SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Cook together on tablespoonful of butter and one of flour ; add two 
cupfuls of salsify broth, made by stewing the salsify in water until 
the water is well flavored; stir constantly until it makes a smooth 
sauce ; add two more cupfuls of the broth and simmer five minutes ; 
then add one cupful of milk and half a cupful of cream ; heat boiling 
hot ; season to taste, and serve. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, Two tablespoonfuls of flour, 

One cupful of milk, One cupful of cream, 

Three cupfuls of chicken broth. Salt, pepper and celery salt. 

Cook together the butter and flour ; add chicken broth, cold, stir- 
ring constantly until it thickens; add milk and cream; season to 
taste ; heat boiling hot, and serve. If the broth be added hot, add a 
little at a time until a smooth sauce is formed, then add more rapidly. 



CEEAM SOUPS 11 

CREAM OF TOMATO, OR MOCK BISQUE. 

One quart can of tomatoes, One and one-half cupfuls of rich 

Pour cloves, milk, 

One tablespoonful of sugar, Four pepper corns, 

One tablespoonful of butter, A pinch of soda, 

One pint of water, One tablespoonful of flour. 

Stew the tomatoes, water, cloves, pepper corns, sugar and soda 
together until the tomatoes are tender; then strain, removing the 
skin and seeds; cook the butter and flour together; add the 
milk cold, stirring constantly until it forms a smooth sauce ; add one 
pint of the stewed and strained tomatoes; season with pepper, salt 
and cayenne ; heat scalding hot, and serve immediately ; if allowed 
to stand the soup will curdle; should it curdle beat with a Dover 
egg-beater until smooth. 

PUREE OF GREEN PEA. 

One tablespoonful of butter, Two cupfuls of white stock 
One and one half cupfuls of veal or chicken. 

water, Two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Two cupfuls of green peas, 

Cook the peas in the water until tender ; drain and rub through a 
sieve ; cook together the butter and flour ; add the stock and stir 
until thickened ; add the peas and the water in which they have been 
cooked ; simmer five minutes ; season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

Note. To make puree of any vegetable, cook the vegetable until 
very tender ; rub through a puree sieve, and use to thicken the soup. 
Always use a small quantity of cornstarch, arrow root or flour in 
puree to keep the vegetable from settling and to make the soup 
smooth. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

One cupful dried split peas, One saltspoonful of white pepper, 

Three pints of cold water, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One-half teaspoonful of sugar, One tablespoonful of flour. 
One teaspoonful of salt, 

Soak the peas over night in cold water; put on to boil in three 
pints of fresh cold water and simmer until dissolved; as the water 
boils away add more, keeping three pints in the kettle ; when soft, 
rub through a strainer; add enough water, stock, milk, or cream to 
make it the consistency of thin cream ; cook the flour and butter to- 
gether; add the salt, pepper and sugar; add a little of the strained 
soup, stirring constantly until you have a smooth sauce ; then add to 
the soup and simmer ten minutes; serve with croutons. It must 
always be made with flour to hold the peas in solution, otherwise it 
will separate as it cools. 

This soup may be varied by cooking a ham-bone with the peas, or 



12 PEACTICAL COOK BOOK 

adding a cup of stewed and strained tomatoes just before serving-. 
One small onion chopped and browned in butter and cooked with the 
peas gives a delicious flavor. 

BISQUE OF LOBSTER. 

Two large cans of lobster, Dash of cayenne pepper. 

One quart of milk, One pint of water, 

One teaspoonful of salt, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One saltspoonful of white pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Cut the tender portions of the lobster into tiny cubes, about one 
cupful ; put the remainder into the water and cook twenty minutes, 
adding more water as it boils away; cook the flour and butter to- 
gether, add the milk, and stir until smooth ; add the seasonings ; 
strain in the lobster liquor and cook five minutes ; put the diced lob- 
ster into the tureen and strain the boiling soup over them ; serve im- 
mediately. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Three potatoes, One teaspoonful of minced onion, ' 

One pint of milk, One stalk of celery, 

One teaspoonful of salt. One-half saltspoonful white pepper, 

One-half teaspoonful celery salt, Dash of cayenne pepper, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One-half tablespoonful of flour. 

Pare the potatoes and soak half an hour in cold water; put them 
into boiling water and cook until very soft ; drain and mash ; cook 
the onion ami celery in the milk in double boiler ; strain and add to 
the mashed potato ; cook the butter and flour together, stir it into 
the boiling soup ; let it boil five minutes, and serve very hot. The 
flour thickening keeps the potato from settling and makes the soup 
smooth and creamy. If a richer soup is desired, use one quart of 
milk, and just before serving add two eggs, well beaten. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Two dozen clams, Six potatoes, 

One-fourth pound of salt pork, One onion, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of salt, 

One quart of milk, Six crackers. 
One-half teaspoonful of pepper, 

Buy the clams in the shell ; scrub the shell until clean ; put clams 
into a pan with one cupful of water and cook until the top ones open ; 
take the clams from the shell and cut off the neck with a pair of 
scissors; chop the necks fine, leaving the soft part whole; save the 
clam broth ; pare and cut the potatoes into thin slices and soak in 
cold water one hour; cut the pork in small pieces and fry in a 
pan ; add the onion, chopped fine, and cook until lightly browned ; 
put the sliced potatoes into a kettle ; strain the pork fat into it and 



FISH 13 

add enough boiling water to cover the potatoes; cook until the 
potatoes are tender, or about ten minutes; add the clam broth and 
the same amount of water ; add salt and pepper and clams, and lastly 
add the hot milk and butter; put the crackers into the tureen and 
pour in the chowder; serve very hot. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Remove the bones from a fresh white fish ; cut the fish into two- 
inch pieces ; cover the bones with water and let simmer for fifteen 
minutes; proceed the same as for clam chowder, using the water in 
which the bones have been boiled instead of the clam juice. 



Fish 

Fish should be perfectly fresh and thoroughly cooked. In buying, 
select only those which have firm flesh, clear eyes and the skin and 
scales bright. If the fish looks limp it is not fit to use. It should be 
washed quickly, and not allowed to stand in the water. A little salt 
in the water keeps the flesh firm. 

Clean the fish as soon as possible, washing it in salt and water ; 
remove the scales by scraping with a small knife, beginning at the 
tail and working towards the head; split it down the middle and 
remove the entrails. 

To skin a fish, cut a thin strip down the backbone, slip the knife 
under the skin at the lower part arid slip it up through the bony part 
of the gills ; hold the bony part and pull the skin off towards the tail ; 
remove it from the other side in the same way. 

TO BONE A FISH. 

Clean the fish ; then take a sharp boning knife, and, beginning at 
the tail, slip the knife between the bone and flesh close to the bone ; 
scrape away the flesh carefully; scrape the flesh away from the 
second set of bones and slip the knife under ; treat the other side in 
the same way, then remove the bone, cutting away the dorsal fin. 

BROILED FISH. 

Clean and bone the fish ; grease the broiler with a piece of salt pork 
to keep the fish from sticking; put fish between the broiler and broil 
over the coals until cooked : the thickness of the fish will determine 
the time. 



14 PEACTICAL COOK BOOK 

TO BROIL IN THE OVEN. 

Clean and bone the fish, grease the fish sheet with salt pork (a fish 
sheet is a piece of sheet iron or tin) ; place the fish, skin down, upon 
the sheet; season it with pepper and salt and brush with melted 
butter; then dust lightly with flour; place on the upper grate of a 
very hot oven and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, according 
to the thickness of the fish ; remove from the sheet and put on a hot 
platter; spread with Maitre d' Hotel sauce, and serve. 

BOILED FISH. 

The general rule for boiled fish is to wash in cold water and wipe 
dry; pin the fish in a piece of strong white cotton cloth to keep it 
from breaking ; cover with boiling water, to which one teaspoonful of 
salt has been added, and cook gently. Rapid boiling will break the 
fish. A fish weighing from four to six pounds will require thirty 
minutes ; allow about three minutes longer for each additional pound. 
For boiled white fish a teaspoonful of lemon juice may be added to 
the water. When the fish is cooked remove from the kettle; drain 
well ; serve on a hot platter garnished with sprigs of parsley. Serve 
boiled fish with Hollandaise sauce, drawn butter, or egg sauce. 

BAKED FISH. 

Scrape and wash the fish ; for a fish weighing four to six pounds 
take three cupfuls of stale bread crumbs, moisten them with three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter; add one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of minced parsley 
and one egg beaten light ; rub the fish with salt and pepper ; put the 
stuffing into the body of the fish and fasten together with skewers ; 
butter the fish sheet and place the fish upon it, putting it into a bak- 
ing pan ; dredge with pepper, salt and flour ; cover the bottom of the 
pan with hot water ; bake in a hot oven about one hour, basting every 
fifteen minutes ; when cooked, remove the sheet from the pan and 
slip the fish off carefully into a hot platter; pour around it tomato 
or Hollandaise sauce; garnish with lemon points and sprigs of 
parsley. 

FRIED FISH. 

Fish to be fried should be cleaned, washed and dried ; rub with salt 
and pepper; roll in flour and cornmeal (half of each) ; then dip in 
beaten egg (add one tablespoonful of water to each egg), and roll in 
dry bread crumbs ; fry in very hot fat ; serve very hot, with Beurre 
Noir poured over it, or serve with sauce tartare. 

Any kind of fish can be fried in the same way, cutting large fish 
into serving pieces. 

Note. For temperature of fat see article "Fat for Frying." 



FISH 15 

SALT CODFISH. 

Wash and soak in cold water over night ; change the water and 
cook slowly until it comes to the boiling point ; set back where it will 
not boil, but keep hot for about half an hour ; pick over and remove 
all skin and bones ; it is then ready to be made into different dishes. 

CREAMED CODFISH. 

One tablespoonful of butter, , One tablespoonful of flour, 

One and one-half cupfuls of milk, One-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. 

Two cupfuls of cooked codfish, i 

Cook the butter and flour together; add the milk cold, stir con- 
stantly until thickened; add the fish and pepper; simmer five min- 
utes ; serve on toast. 

Note. Any cold white fish may be used instead of cod. The addi- 
tion of one teaspoonful of minced parsley gives a good flavor. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

One cupful raw codfish, One teaspoonful of butter, 

Four medium-sized potatoes, One-fourth saltspoonful of pepper. 

One egg, 

Wash, pare and cut the potatoes into quarters; let stand in cold 
water; wash the fish and pick into half -inch pieces; remove the 
bones ; put the potatoes and fish into a kettle, cover with boiling water 
and cook until potatoes are soft, about twenty -five minutes ; drain 
off all the w r ater ; mash and beat until very light ; add the butter and 
pepper, and when slightly cooled add the egg and more salt if 
needed ; shape in a tablespoon ; fry in hot fat until a golden brown ; 
use a frying basket and fry only four or five at a time ; more will cool 
the fat. The fat should be hot enough to brown a piece of raw 
potato in forty seconds. Drain on soft paper and serve immediately. 

FISH SOUFFLE. 

Prepare the fish as for fish balls ; add one-fourth of a cup of cream 
and two eggs beaten separately. Bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty-five minutes. 

FISH BALLS. 

One cupful of cold cooked fish, Two cupfuls of mashed potatoes, 

One egg, Two tablespoonfuls of milk, 

Two tablespoonfuls of melted Pepper and salt, 
butter, 

Mix the fish and potato together; moisten with butter, milk and 
egg ; season to taste ; shape into balls and cook in hot fat three 
minutes. 

Note. If cold mashed potato is used, heat the potato and add milk 
enough to moisten it. 



16 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

ESCALLOPED FISH. 

One cupful of cold cooked fish, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One tablespoonful of flour, One cupful of milk, 

One-half cupful of stale bread Pepper and salt, 
crumbs, 

Cook butter and flour together; add milk cold and stir until it 
thickens ; add one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of pepper. Butter baking dish ; put a layer of fish in the bottom, 
then a layer of white sauce, another layer of fish and another layer 
of white sauce; cover the top with bread crumbs moistened with 
melted butter; bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or 
until the crumbs are nicely browned. 

FRIED FISH ROES. 

Wash the roes and cook te/i minutes in boiling water, having added 
one teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of lemon juice or 
vinegar; then plunge into cold water; drain; roll in bread crumbs, 
then in beaten egg, then in seasoned bread crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat until brown. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

One pint of cold cooked fish, One egg, 

One pint of hot mashed potatoes, One-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, 

One-half cupful of hot milk, One teaspoonful of salt, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of minced parsley. 

Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and set aside to cool; when 
cold shape into balls ; roll in fine bread crumbs ; dip in beaten egg to 
which one tablespoonful of water has been added ; roll again in bread 
crumbs ; fry in hot fat ; serve at once. All work except frying may 
be done the previous day. 

FRIED FROGS' LEGS. 

Skin and wash the legs in cold water ; dry them well on a towel ; 
season with salt, pepper and lemon juice; roll in fine dried bread 
crumbs; dip in beaten egg, again into fine bread crumbs; plunge in 
boiling fat and cook five minutes; use a wire frying basket; serve 
very hot with tartare sauce. 

SALMON ON TOAST. 

Drain oft' part of the oil from a can of salmon ; heat the fish, adding 
one-fourth cup of water ; season with salt and pepper ; make a cream 
sauce of one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one 
cup of milk; lay the salmon on the toast and pour over it the hot 
cream sauce ; garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 



Oysters 



Oysters served on the half shell should be opened just before 
serving. Six, on a large plate, with half of a lime in the center, 
should be served to each person. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Two tablespoonfuls of California Three tablespoonfuls of tomato 

oysters, catsup, 

One tablespoonful of lemon or One-fourth teaspoonful Worcester 

lime juice, shire sauce, 

Pinch of salt, One or two drons of tobasco sauce. 

Have all the ingredients cold; mix the catsup, lime juice, Worces- 
tershire sauce, salt and tobasco sauce together ; put the oysters in the 
glass and pour over the sauce ; serve in punch or champagne glasses. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

One tablespoonful of butter, Two dozen Eastern oysters, 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt, Half a saltspoonful of pepper. 

Melt the butter in an omelet pan or chafing dish ; add the salt and 
pepper and then the oysters; cook until the edges curl and the 
oysters become plump ; serve on toast. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Two dozen large oysters, or Pepper and salt, 

three dozen small ones, One tablespqonful of butter. 

One quart of milk, 

Finger the oysters carefully and remove any pieces of shell ; scald 
the milk in double boiler ; cook the oysters in their own liquor until 
the edges curl ; then add the milk and butter ; season to taste ; serve 
with crackers. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Heat patty cases and fill with creamed oysters. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One can of Eastern oysters or One blade of mace, 

fifty California oysters, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One pint of cream or rich milk, One tablespoonful of flour. 

Put the oysters in a saucepan and cook in their own liquor until 
plump; put the cream and mace in double boiler and heat scalding 



18 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

hot; cook butter and flour together; remove the mace and add the 
hot cream slowly to the butter and flour; season with salt and 
pepper; add the cooked oysters, and serve. 

OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. 

Cook one quart of oysters in their own liquor until they boil; 
when they begin to boil, strain; cook together one tablespoonful 
of butter and one tablespoonful of flour; add one cup to the oyster 
liquid and stir until a smooth sauce is formed ; add one pint of 
cream, one level teaspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of white 
pepper, dash of cayenne pepper and a slight grating of nutmeg; 
beat the yolks of four eggs; add one-half cup of cold cream; add 
the oysters to the cooking mixture and then the beaten yolks of the 
eggs; cook two or three minutes, stirring all the time; serve im- 
mediately with puff paste cakes or crackers. If liked, a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice may be added just as the oysters are taken from the 
fire. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Moisten stale bread crumbs with melted butter, and season with 
salt and pepper ; butter the baking dish ; put a layer of bread crumbs 
in the bottom and then a layer of oysters, another layer of crumbs 
and another layer of oysters; cover the whole with the crumbs and 
bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or until the crumbs 
are nicely browned. 

Note. For escalloped oysters a shallow dish or platter should be 
used, ^allowing only two layers of oysters to each dish. If more are 
used the upper and under layers will be overcooked while the inner 
ones may be underdone. 



All fresh meats to be boiled should be plunged into boiling water 
and allowed to boil rapidly for ten or fifteen minutes, to coagulate 
the albumen and thus close the pores, keeping in the juices of the 
meat. After the meat has boiled for ten minutes place it where it 
will just simmer, until tender. Meat that boils rapidly will be 
stringy. 

HAM. 

Scrub a ham with a brush until perfectly clean ; then place it in 
a large kettle with cold water and let it come to the boiling point ; 
simmer gently until tender it requires about twenty minutes to 



STEWING 19 

the pound let it stand in the water until cold, then remove the skin ; 
roll in fine bread crumbs ; stick the fat parts with whole cloves and 
bake in a moderate oven about half an hour. 

TONGUE. 

Cook slowly in boiling water until tender about five or six hours 
then plunge into cold water and peel off the skin. For salt tongue, 
soak over night and cover with cold water instead of boiling water 
when putting on to cook. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Wash and cover with cold water ; simmer slowly five or six hours, 
or until tender ; let stand in the water in which it was boiled if it is 
to be served cold. To press corned beef, remove the bones after it is 
cooked and put it under a heavy weight. 

NEW ENGLAND DINNER. 

Six pounds of corned beef, One small white turnip, 

One pound of salt pork, One small yellow turnip, 

Two or three beets, Six or eight medium-sized pota- 

Two carrots, toes of uniform size. 

One head of cabbage, 

Wash and soak the corned beef and pork in cold water ; put it on 
to boil in fresh cold water; simmer until it is tender; remove from 
the kettle and skim the liquor ; wash and pare the turnips and carrots 
and cut into inch slices ; cut the cabbage into quarters and wash care- 
fully; put the carrots, turnips and cabbage into the boiling liquor 
and cook until tender ; pare and add the potatoes half an hour before 
serving time ; cook the beets in a separate kettle ; remove the skin, 
cut in half-inch slices; when the vegetables are cooked, drain; put 
the beef and pork in the center of a large platter ; serve the carrots, 
potatoes and turnips around the edge, with the cabbage and beets 
in separate dishes; the beets can be cooked the day before and 
covered with vinegar, serving them as pickled beets ; always cook 
the beets in a separate kettle ; the corned beef may be cooked the day 
before and pressed, saving the liquor for cooking the vegetables. 



Stewing 

CHICKEN STEW. 

Singe, draw, wash and cut the chicken, at the joints, into serving 
pieces; cover with boiling water; add one teaspoonful of salt and 
half a saltspoonful of pepper; simmer until tender; remove all the 
large bones and put the chicken, on toast, on a large platter; cook 



20 PEACTICA'L COOK BOOK 

together one tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour ; 
add one and one-half cupfuls of cold milk and stir until smooth ; 
add the chicken broth gradually; season with pepper and salt arid 
celery salt ; pour the hot sauce over the chicken and toast, and serve. 
If you wish to serve dumplings with the chicken stew, ten minutes 
before the chicken is cooked let the liquid boil up. then put in the 
dumplings. When serving dumplings omit the toast. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Cut the chicken as for stew; brown in hot butter before stewing: 
make a brown gravy by browning the butter before adding the 
gravy; serve on toast. 

LAMB FRICASSEE. 

Two pounds breast of lamb or One onion, 
mutton, 

Cut the lamb in small pieces ; dredge with salt and flour and brown 
in drippings ; cut the onion fine and brown in fat ; add to the meat : 
put in a stewpan and cover with boiling water; simmer until the 
bones slip out ; remove the bones ; strain the liquor and skim off the 
fat ; when the liquor boils again add the meat, pepper and salt ; then 
add one quart of green peas or one pint of cooked rice, and simmer 
fifteen minutes. 

VEAL STEW. 

Cut the veal into small pieces ; cover with boiling water ; add one- 
half teaspoonful of salt and one small onion, browned ; simmer until 
veal is tender; add four potatoes, cut in thick slices; cook together 
one tablespoonful of butter and two of flour ; add one cupful of cold 
milk ; stir until smooth ; add the veal broth gradually ; remove bones 
from veal and simmer all together for five minutes, then serve. 

Beef and mutton stew are made in the same way. 

For stewing, the cheapest and toughest meat is used ; by long, slow 
cooking it becomes tender. 

CURRY OF RABBIT. 

Cut the rabbit into serving pieces; brown in hot butter; remove 
from the butter and put into stew kettle ; add one large onion, cut 
into slices; cook one tablespoonful of flour and one of curry powder 
in the butter in which the rabbit was browned : add one cupful of 
water or stock and stir until thickened; then add one cupful of 
strained tomatoes, one teaspoonful of sugar and pepper and salt 
to taste: pour this over the rabbit and stew until tender: add a 
cupful of milk ; heat boiling hot ; serve with boiled rice. 



Broiling 



Broiling is the most perfect way of cooking meat and fish. There 
are three ways of broiling, what is known as broiling proper, pan 
broiling and oven broiling. 

Broiling proper is to broil directly over the coals ; the fire must be 
hot, clear and free from smoke. For meat it must be hotter than for 
fish. Pan broiling is cooking upon a smoking hot griddle. Oven 
broiling is cooking in a very hot oven. The most delicious results are 
obtained by broiling steaks, chops, young chickens, squab, etc., 
directly over the glowing coals. Charcoal is best for broiling, but 
hard wood, coal or gas may be used, provided it is free from 
smoke. The point to be remembered in broiling is to have the fire, 
griddle or oven hot enough to instantly sear the outer surface of the 
meat. 

The best cuts of steak make the most delicious broils, tenderness 
being one of the essential qualities. It must be remembered, how- 
ever, that a second-class cut of steak taken from a first-class bullock 
will make a much better broil than a first class cut taken from a 
second-class beef. When selecting beef see that it has a thick rim 
of fat. that the lean is well marbled with fat and is of a bright red 
color after being exposed to the air for a short time. 

STEAKS. 

Have steak cut thick two inches is the proper thickness for a 
steak; it should never be cut less than one inch. Trim off the suet; 
put between a double broiler and place it as close to the coals as 
possible ; allow it to cook for about a minute, or until the under side 
is well seared, then turn and sear the other side ; remove a little dis- 
tance from the coals and cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, turn- 
ing constantly. A steak that is broiled perfectly should be puffed out 
in the center and should be of a delicate pink color throughout. 
Serve immediately on a warm platter ; garnish with sprigs of parsley 
or watercress. 

PAN BROILING. 

To pan broil a steak, have the griddle smoking hot ; rub with fat ; 
place the steak on the griddle and press close ; let it cook one minute ; 
then, with a knife, loosen from the griddle and turn ; sear the other 
side ; reduce the heat slightly and cook from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes, turning very frequently ; do not prick the steak with a fork or 



22 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

the juice will escape. The steak can be easily turned with two 
knives by slipping one under the steak and assisting to turn with the 
other. Broiled steak is served as soon as taken from the fire, sea- 
soned with pepper and salt. Maitre d' Hotel sauce is sometimes 
served with broiled steak. 

TIME FOR BROILING STEAKS. 

Steak two inches in thickness requires from fifteen to twenty 
minutes; one and one-half inches, from twelve to fifteen minutes; 
and one inch, from eight to ten minutes. 

LAMB AND MUTTON CHOPS. 

Remove the outer skin and all the suet from the chops ; broil over 
the coals or on a hot griddle ; serve with tomato sauce and season 
with salt and pepper ; garnish with parsley. 

Note. Before cooking lamb or mutton always remove the skin. 
It is in the skin that the disagreeable flavor exists. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Only very young chickens should be broiled. Singe and draw the 
chickens, picking out all pin-feathers; split down the back; clean 
and wipe with wet towel ; break the joints ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; grease a double broiler; turn the inside of the chicken to 
the fire first ; turn frequently, being careful the fire is not too hot ; 
broil about twenty minutes, or until the bird is tender and nicely 
browned ; spread with softened butter and serve on a warm plate ; 
garnish with parsley or watercress. 



Roasting 



Roasting and baking are now synonymous terms. We speak of 
roasting meats and baking breads, yet we use the same oven for both. 
Roasting formerly meant to place the meat on a spit before the open 
fire, turn it frequently and baste constantly to keep from burning. 
Roasting to-day means to bake in a hot oven. 

ROAST BEEF. 

There are seven prime ribs in a beef. Any of them will make a 
first-class roast. Do not have the ribs removed, but have them cut 
in two-inch pieces up to the thick muscle ; cut these pieces of bone 
off, to be braised and served as short ribs of beef ; place the cut sur- 
face of the roast on a smoking hot griddle and press close; let cook for 



BOASTING 23 

two or three minutes, or until it is nicely seared ; turn and sear the 
other side ; set the roast, resting upon the edges of the ribs, on a rack 
in a dripping pan ; put into an oven hot enough to bake bread, and let 
cook ; do not season the meat and do not put water in the pan; when 
the oven is at the proper temperature you will hear a gentle sputter- 
ing f .when the oven door is opened if smoke issues from the oven it 
is too hot if you do not hear a gentle sputtering increase the tem- 
perature. The time required for roasting depends upon the thickness 
of the roast ; fifteen minutes is allowed for each inch in thickness ; a 
roast four inches in thickness will cook rare in one hour; measure 
across the thickest part of a roast. A rump roast is seared in the 
same way and placed upon a rack in a hot oven ; allow fifteen min- 
utes to the pound. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of flour, One pint of milk, 
Three eggs, One teaspoonful of salt. 

Sift the flour and measure ; add the salt ; separate the eggs and add 
the yolks, unbeaten, to the flour ; add a little of the milk and mix to 
a smooth paste ; add the rest of the milk gradually ; beat whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the batter ; pour into the roast- 
ing pan forty-five minutes before the roast is cooked ; serve hot with 
the roast of beef; if the roast is very fat pour some of the fat from 
the pan before putting in the pudding. 

BRAISED BEEF OR POT ROAST. 

Six or eight pounds chuck roast or a piece of the rump ; trim and 
rub with pepper and salt ; cut a large onion into dice and brown in 
salt pork fat ; put the roast into a braising pan ; pour over it one 
quart of boiling water; add the onion; cover closely and cook in a 
moderate oven about four hours, turning after two hours, and add 
more water as it evaporates, so as to have three cups of gravy ; when 
tender take up the meat; skim off the fat from the gravy and thicken 
with a tablespoonful or flour wet in a little cold water and strained 
into the gravy ; season with pepper and salt and a little lemon juice. 

VEAL HEART. 

Remove the tough membranes and soak in cold water and salt one 
hour ; wipe and stuff with stale bread crumbs seasoned with salt and 
pepper and moistened with melted butter; rub the heart with salt, 
pepper and dredge with flour; fry brown in a pan with a little fat 
salt pork ; place in braising kettle ; add one pint of water, one tea- 
spoonful of minced onion ; sprig of parsley, three cloves, three pepper 
corns, one small carrot cut fine ; cover tightly and cook two hours in 
a moderately hot oven ; turn three or four times while cooking. 



24 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

ROAST LAMB OR MUTTON. 

Remove the skin from a leg of lamb or mutton; sear the cut sur- 
faces on a hot griddle ; place on a rack in a roasting pan in a hot 
oven. A leg of lamb will roast in one hour and a quarter, while it 
requires one hour and three-quarters to roast a medium-sized leg 
of mutton. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Veal being a dry meat, requires basting to keep it moist and to 
enrichen it; rub the veal with sugar, salt and pepper, using one-half 
as much sugar as salt ; place upon rack in roasting pan and let cook 
in a hot oven until nicely browned, then baste with a thin gravy 
made from one tablespoonful of butter, one of flour and two cupfuls 
of stock or water; season with pepper and salt; baste every fifteen 
minutes ; veal requires longer cooking than either beef or mutton ; 
a five-pound roast will cook in two and one-half hours. 

PORK. 

Fresh pork is seasoned with pepper, salt and sugar. Roast and 
baste the same as veal. 



Poultry and Game 



TO DRAW POULTRY. 

All poultry should be dressed as soon as killed; the feathers come 
out more easily while the fowl is warm; strip them off toward the 
head ; remove the pin-feathers with a knife ; singe the hairs by hold- 
ing it over the gas jet or a piece of lighted paper ; cut off the head ; 
turn the skin back and cut off the neck close to the body ; remove 
the windpipe and crop ; to remove the feet, cut the skin just below 
the leg joint; break the joint; with a skewer pull out the tendons; 
cut away the oil bag in the tail ; make an incision under the side bone 
near the tail large enough to insert two fingers; slip the fingers 
around the entrails; separating the membrane; when everything is 
loosened, get the fingers around the heart and pull out the entrails ; 
then take out the lungs and kidneys; when everything is removed 
hold the fowl under the faucet and rinse well, then wipe dry. 

TO CLEAN GIBLETS. 

Remove the outside sack from the heart ; cut open and press out 
the clot of blood ; cut off the gall bladder from the liver, being care- 
ful not to break it, and cut away any discolored part of the liver; 



POULTRY AND GAME 25 

open the thick part of the gizzard and take out the inner sack with- 
out breaking; wash giblets and put into cold water; simmer until 
tender ; cook the neck with the giblets. 

TO TRUSS POULTRY. 

Draw the thighs up close to the body and pass a skewer through 
the thigh and into the body and out through the other thigh; pass 
another skewer through the wings, fastening them close to the 
body ; fold the skin at the neck over and pin it to the back with a 
skewer; cross the legs over the tail and tie with a stout twine, leav- 
ing two long ends ; pass the twine around the tail, bring it up, cross- 
ing in front and passing around the skewer in the thighs; cross in 
the back and fasten around the skewer through the wings and tie 
firmly. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Singe, draw, wash and wipe ; stuff the body and neck with stale 
bread crumbs moistened with melted butter and seasoned with 
pepper, salt and celery salt; truss and rub with butter; lay the 
turkey, breast down, on the rack in the roasting pan ; put into a hot 
oven and cook until the back of the turkey is nicely browned, then 
turn it over and brown breast; pour one pint of water into the pan 
after the turkey is browned; baste every fifteen minutes, or when- 
ever the skin becomes very dry ; allow about twenty -five minutes to 
the pound for roasting; if the turkey browns too rapidly cover the 
breast with a heavy paper well buttered. Oysters or chopped celery 
may be added to the stuffing if desired. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Prepare the same as roast turkey ; allow twenty minutes to the 
pound for roasting. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Many people prefer young ducks served rare ; when so liked, they 
are not stuffed. 

Pick, singe, draw and wash the duck; wipe, truss and dredge with 
salt, pepper and Hour; roast in a hot oven about thirty minutes. 
Full-grown domestic ducks should be roasted about one hour and 
basted every ten minutes. Make a giblet gravy and serve with a 
grape or currant jelly. 

Ducks and geese have a strong flavor, and are improved by stuff- 
ing the body with apples or onions or coarse bits of celery, which 
absorb the flavor and should not be eaten. 



26 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Nearly all wild ducks have a strong or fishy flavor. To lessen 
this flavor put an onion cut in two into the body of the bird, and let 
stand some hours before cooking. 

Clean the same as poultry and wipe both inside and out with a 
damp towel ; tuck back the wings and truss the legs close to the 
body ; rub with salt, pepper, butter and flour ; place in a baking pan 
and add one cup of boiling water; roast twenty-five to thirty-five 
minutes in a hot oven, basting occasionally with butter; serve very 
hot, with slices of lemon or currant jelly. 



Frying 



Frying is cooking in hot fat deep enough to entirely cover the 
articles to be cooked. When food is properly fried the fat is hot 
enough to instantly sear the outer surface and thus prevent it soak- 
ing into the food. All food to be fried should be thoroughly dried ; 
if water should drop into the hot fat it would cause the fat to boil 
over, and there is danger of it taking fire and causing great trouble. 
Pood that does not contain sufficient albumen to form a coating on 
the outside as soon as immersed into the hot fat should be rolled in 
crumbs, then in egg and again in crumbs to form a grease-proof 
covering. A frying-basket, or a wire basket with a long handle, is 
very convenient for frying purposes. In many cook books we read, 
''heat the fat smoking hot." That depends entirely upon the kind 
of fat you are using ; lard will smoke at a much lower temperature 
than oil. When fat smokes it loses some of its browning properties ; 
never let fat heat without putting a small piece of raw potato into 
it. As soon as the potato begins to brown drop in a fresh piece of 
potato ; if it browns in one minute the fat is hot enough to fry 
potatoes and dough mixtures. For such food as we roll in bread 
crumbs and egg the fat should be hot enough to brown a bit of bread 
in forty seconds. 

The best fat for frying purposes is a mixture of beef suet and oil, 
as both these fats can be heated to a much higher temperature with- 
out smoking than lard. Olive oil is the purest fat for frying, but is 
too expensive for general use. 

For frying the same fat can be used several times if properly cared 
for. The most delicate croquettes can be fried in the same fat with 
fish and not be marred in flavor. When frying several different 
kinds of food at the same time, begin with potatoes, then dough mix- 
tures and lastlv articles rolled in crumbs. 



FRYING 27 

When finished with the fat drop three or four slices of raw potato 
into it ; cool slightly, and strain through a fine strainer or a strainer 
cloth. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes and cut in strips one-half inch in thickness; let 
stand in cold water one hour; heat the fat hot enough to brown a 
thin slice of potato in one minute ; wipe the potatoes ; put into the 
frying basket and lower into the hot fat ; do not put a large quantity 
of potatoes in at one time, as they will lower the temperature of the 
fat and the potatoes will be soggy and greasy. When the potatoes 
are nicely browned lift from the fat and shake free from grease; 
turn onto a piece of cheese cloth to absorb the fat ; dust lightly with 
salt, and serve immediately. French fried potatoes should be crisp 
and mealy. If they stand they become soggy. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Pare the potatoes and slice very thin ; let them stand in cold water 
two or three hours ; wipe dry ; fry in fat hot enough to brown in one 
minute ; when nicely browned remove the basket and shake well ; 
turn chips onto cheese cloth or soft paper ; dust well with salt. 

LAMB CHOPS BREADED. 

Trim the chops and remove the skin ; season with salt and pepper ; 
roll in fine bread crumbs ; dip in beaten egg and roll again in bread 
crumbs ; fry in hot fat. For a chop one inch in thickness it will re- 
quire six minutes to cook rare and from eight to ten to cook well 
done. 

Note. One tablespoonful of water added to beaten egg makes a 
more elastic coating for fried food. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken into ten pieces ; season with pepper and salt ; roll 

in fine bread crumbs; dip in beaten egg; roll in crumbs, and fry in 

fat hot enough to brown a piece of bread in one minute. A young 

chicken will cook in ten minutes. Serve with sauce tartare or cream 

-sauce; garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

Note. For fried fish, see article on Fish. 

CROQUETTES. 

In making croquettes the material must be chopped fine, well 
mixed, and seasoned delicately. The shaping of croquettes can 
readily be acquired by a little practice and care. They are formed 
into cone, ball and cylindrical shapes. 



9g PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

To Shape. Take a tablespoonful of the mixture, roll gently be- 
tween the hands into a ball; have a board well sprinkled with fine 
dry bread crumbs and roll the croquette very gently on this into 
shape ; dip into beaten egg, to which one tablespoonful of water has 
been added; water added to the egg makes a more elastic coating 
than egg alone ; after dipping the croquette into the egg roll it again 
in the bread crumbs and then fry in fat hot enough to brown a piece 
of bread in forty seconds ; cook until nicely browned it will re- 
quire about two minutes; shake free from fat and lay on cheese 
cloth or soft brown paper. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One pint of cooked chicken, One teaspoonful of minced parsley. 

chopped fine, Pepper and salt to taste, 

One tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, One teaspoonful of minced onion. 
One cupful of cream, 

Cook together the butter and flour; add the cream, and stir con- 
stantly until it thickens; season the chicken with pepper, salt, onion, 
lemon juice and parsley ; add to the white sauce and mix thoroughly ; 
spread on a buttered plate and set away to cool; when cold shape 
into croquettes; roll in bread crumbs, dip in egg, and roll again in 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat; drain on cheese cloth, and serve gar- 
nished with lemon points and sprigs of parsley. 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Two sweetbreads, One cup of cream, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, Pepper and salt to taste. 

Cover the sweetbreads with cold water and salt ; let stand two or 
three hours; cover with boiling water; add lemon juice and cook 
until tender; remove the tubes and membranes, and, with a silver 
fork, separate into small pieces ; cook together the butter and flour ; 
add the cream or rich milk and cook until thickened ; add the sweet- 
breads; season to taste; spread on a buttered plate and set aside to 
cool ; shape into croquettes ; roll in fine bread crumbs ; dip in egg 
and roll in crumbs again ; fry in hot fat until nicely browned. 

ROYAL CROQUETTES. 

Royal croquettes are made by using half chicken and half sweet- 
breads. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Six medium-sized potatoes, Whites of two eggs, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One tablespoonful of minced 

Salt and pepper to taste, parsley. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of milk, 



FRYING- 29 

Pare, boil and mash potatoes ; add the butter, milk and seasonings ; 
let cool slightly, then shape ; roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

One and one-half cupfuls of Half a teaspoonful of salt, 

boiled rice, Two eggs, 

Three-fourths of a cupful of One tablespoonful of sugar, 

milk, One tablespoonful of butter. 

Cover the rice with the milk ; add the sugar, butter and salt ; let 
boil three minutes ; add the eggs, well beaten, and cook one minute ; 
set aside to cool ; when cold, shape, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs ; 
fry and serve very hot. 

OTHER CROQUETTES. 

Mutton, veal, lamb, beef or any kind of cooked meat or fish may be 
substituted in place of chicken, and prepared in the same way; or. 
take one cupful of finely chopped meat and add to it one-half cupful 
of stale bread crumbs; moisten with one-third cupful of cream and 
one egg ; season with pepper, salt and a little onion juice ; drop by 
spoonful into hot fat; fry until nicely browned. 

TIMBALES. 

One-half cupful of flour, One egg, 

One-half cupful of milk, One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the ingredients together in a bowl and beat with Dover egg- 
beater until smooth; heat timbal iron in hot fat (the fat should be 
hot enough to brown a piece of potato in one minute) ; dip hot iron 
in batter ; return to the fat and cook until nicely browned ; drain on 
soft paper. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

One cupful of flour, One saltspoonful of salt, 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, One egg, 

One teaspoonful of baking pow- One-third of a cupful of milk, 
der, 

Mix the flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder together; add the 
egg, beaten light, and the milk; beat until light and smooth; drop 
by spoonful into very hot fat; sprinkle with sugar, and serve with 
maple syrup or lemon sauce. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare and core two large tart apples-; cut into slices about one- 
third of an inch in thickness; drop into the fritter batter and fry 
about five or six minutes in very hot deep fat ; serve hot with lemon 
sauce. 



30 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

FRUIT FRITTERS. 

Bannas, oranges, pineapple, peaches, etc., are used for fritters; 
cut into small pieces or slices and add to the fritter batter; fry in 
deep fat heated very hot. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. 

Cut cold boiled or roast chicken into small pieces ; season with salt, 
pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon juice for each pint of chicken ; 
make a batter as for "Batter Fritters," omitting the sugar; stir the 
chicken into the batter; drop by spoonful into very hot fat; drain 
and serve immediately; any tender meat may be substituted for 
chicken. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Prepare the fritter batter, omitting the sugar; for large oysters 
drain and dip into the batter, and fry in very hot fat ; if the oysters 
are small drain and add one cupful of oysters to one cupful of bat- 
ter ; drop by spoonfuls in hot fat and fry until nicely browned ; drain 
on cheese cloth or soft paper, and serve hot. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Cut cold mush into slices three-quarters of an inch in thickness; 
roll in cornmeal and flour (equal parts) ; dip in beaten egg, to which 
one tablespoonful of cold water has been added; roll in cornmeal 
and flour and fry in hot fat; drain on cheese cloth and serve hot. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

One and one-half cupfuls of Dash of cayenne pepper, 

grated cheese, Whites of three eggs. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 

Beat the eggs until stiff ; add the salt, pepper and grated cheese ; 
shape into small balls about the size of a walnut ; roll in fine bread 
crumbs, then in beaten egg and again in bread crumbs ; fry in hot 
fat, and serve with salad. 

V 

CRULLERS. 

One-fourth of a cupful of butter, Two eggs, 

One cupful of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

Two cupfuls of flour, der, 

One-half level teaspoonful of One cupful of milk, 

nutmeg, Three drops of almond extract. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar and egg yolks and cream to- 
gether; add the flour and milk alternately; sift the baking-powder 
and nutmeg with the flour; beat the whites of the eggs stiff and add 



FBYING 31 

to the mixture ; then add the flavoring ; roll very thin ; cut into shape ; 
fry in deep fat heated very hot; cook until nicely browned; roll in 
powdered sugar and cinnamon. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 

One egg, One cupful of sweet milk, 

One-half teaspoonful of ginger, One teaspoonful of soda, 

Grating of nutmeg, One tablespoonful of melted but- 
Enough flour to make a dough, ter. 

Beat the eggs; add the sugar, and beat together; mix the cream 
tartar with one cupful of flour and add to the egg and sugar; dis- 
solve the soda in the milk, and add gradually to the egg and sugar ; 
add the butter, mix the ginger and nutmeg with the flour and add 
enough to make a soft dough ; let stand over night, or several hours, 
before frying ; roll a piece of the dough into a sheet half an inch in 
thickness ; cut into shape and fry in deep fat ; cut all the doughnuts 
before frying, as the frying will require your full attention ; the fat 
should be hot enough to brown a piece of potato in one minute. 



Sauteing is cooking food in a small quantity of fat. Butter, when 
clarified, is the most satisfactory for some things, as it browns nicely 
and gives a delicious flavor to the food, but lard or drippings may be 
used. 

CLARIFIED BUTTER. 

To clarify butter, let it boil gently for about a minute the salt 
will settle to the bottom; the scum which rises to the top should be 
skimmed off, leaving the oil clear. 

MUSH. 

Cut cold mush into thin slices; cook on a griddle buttered with 
clarified butter until nicely browned. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Cut tart apples in thin slices; dust lightly with flour, and fry in 
clarified butter until nicely browned; serve with liver, breakfast 
bacon or pork chops. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Rub the chops with salt, sugar and pepper ; dredge with flour ; heat 
one tablespoonful of clarified butter or drippings in the spider; 
brown the chops nicely on both sides; add two tablespoonfuls of 



32 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

water ; cover the spider closely and let simmer ten minutes ; serve on 
a hot platter; add one-fourth of a cupful of sweet milk to the gravy 
in the spider, and serve with the chops. 

PORK CHOPS. 

Season and cook the same as veal cutlets ; veal and pork require 
long and thorough cooking. 

HAMBURG STEAKS. 

One pound of round steak chopped very fine ; one tablespoonful of 
minced onion ; pepper and salt to taste ; mix the meat and seasonings 
thoroughly together ; shape into cakes about three-fourths of an inch 
in thickness ; grease the griddle or spider well ; brown nicely on both 
sides ; cook about five minutes, and serve. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

Cut in slices one-half inch in thickness ; dust with pepper and salt 
and roll in flour ; cook in bacon fat until nicely browned ; serve with 
breakfast bacon or fried apples, or cover the liver with boiling water 
and let stand five minutes ; season with pepper and salt ; roll in flour 
and frv in bacon fat or clarified butter. 



Salads 

Salads, to be palatable, should always be crisp and fresh and 
served icy cold. It is upon its crispness and the proper mingling and 
selection of ingredients that its success depends; when lettuce is to 
be used it must be washed carefully, taking care not to break the 
leaves. The large dark leaves are not nice for salad. Of celery only 
the white crisp parts are used, the green, tough parts being utilized 
for soups and stews. All fresh vegetables to be used for salads 
should stand in ice water until just before serving time. Vegetable 
salads are served after the meat course at dinner a rich salad, such 
as lobster, chicken, sweetbread, etc., is out of place at a heavy meal. 
These latter are best served at lunches or suppers. In arranging a 
salad on a dish or in a bowl, handle it very gently; do not press it 
into form. The garnishings should be of the freshest and crispest 
kind. 



SALADS ;^:> 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs, One level teaspoonful of salt, 

One level teaspoonful of sugar, One pint of olive oil, 

One-half level teaspoouful of dry Juice of one lemon, 

mustard, Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

When making mayonnaise, have utensils and ingredients very 
cold : a Dover egg-beater or a fork may be used ; beat the yolks of 
the eggs until very creamy ; add the seasonings and beat again ; then 
add the oil very slowly until the mixture thickens ; when it gets too 
thick to beat add one tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar ; then 
more oil until it again thickens, then more lemon or vinegar, and con- 
tinue until the full amount is used. A cup of whipped cream added 
to the dressing- just before using improves the flavor; the whipped 
whites of the eggs added will increase the bulk. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful of sharp vine- One-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, 

gar, One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 

Mix the vinegar, salt, pepper and oil together and beat with a fork 
until the oil and vinegar unite. This dressing may be made at the 
table, and the salad dressed just before serving. 

COOKED MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Four egg yolks and one whole Six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 

egg, One generous teaspoonful of butter. 

Heat the vinegar scalding hot ; beat the eggs until creamy ; pour 
the hot vinegar over the beaten eggs ; cook over boiling water, stir- 
ring constantly until it thickens, then add the butter ; season accord- 
ing to the salad to be served. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One cupful of rich milk, 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, Four tablespoonfuls of vinegar or 

One-half of a cupful of- cream, lemon juice. 

Melt the butter; add flour and -cook together; add milk and stir 
until thickened ; add gradually the vinegar and when cold stir in 
the cream. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Remove the skin and bone from a cold boiled or roast chicken; cut 
into half-inch dice ; to one quart of diced chicken add two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-half 
saltspoonful of pepper; let stand in a cold place; cut into half-inch 
dice enough tender white celery to make three cupfuls ; mix the 



34 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

chicken and celery together; moisten with mayonnaise dressing: add 
one-half cupful of whipped cream; arrange in salad bowl; garnish 
the dish with crisp bits of celery or white celery leaves. 

Equal parts of chicken and sweetbread, or chicken and veal mixed 
with celery make a nice salad. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Cover the sweetbread with cold water ; add one teaspooiif ul of salt 
and stand two or three hours ; drain ; cover with boiling water : add 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice ; cook until tender ; drain ; drop into 
cold water and let stand until cold ; remove the membranes and pull 
apart with a silver fork into small pieces ; mix two cupfuls of sweet- 
breads, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of salt 
and half a saltspoonful of pepper together; let stand on the ice for 
one hour ; cut cucumbers into dice enough to make two cupfuls ; let 
stand in ice water one hour; mix with sweetbreads and moisten with 
mayonnaise ; serve immediately. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the lobster into dice ; season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. 
the same as chicken ; let stand an hour ; separate and wash carefully 
the leaves from a crisp head of lettuce ; let stand in ice water for half 
an hour ; at serving time shake free from water ; arrange two or 
three leaves together in the form of a nest, and arrange the nests on 
a large dish or individual dishes; season the mayonnaise to taste with 
a mixture of one teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt and 
a fourth of a teaspoonful of mixed pepper ; mix one-half the dressing 
with the lobster ; put a tablespoonful into each shell and a teaspoon- 
ful of dressing on top. 

Another way of serving lobster salad is to tear the lettuce into 
small pieces and mix with the lobster, using one-third as much 
lettuce as lobster, garnishing the dish with the whole leaves. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Prepare and serve shrimps the same as lobster; the shrimps may 
be left whole or cut into small pieces. 

Crab salad is also prepared in the same way. 

FISH SALADS. 

All kinds of cold cooked fish can be used for salads. Dress with a 
French or mayonnaise dressing, season to taste, and serve on lettuce 
leaves. 



SALADS ;};-) 

MEAT SALAD. 

One pint of cold meat cut in thin slices and then cut into small 
pieces ; to the French dressing add one tablespoonful of minced pars- 
ley and one teaspoonful of onion juice ; put a layer of meat in the 
salad bowl ; pour orj some dressing, another layer of meat, and so on 
until all the meat and dressing is used; let stand on the ice two 
hours; garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Any kind 
of tender meat may be used. 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil four eggs twenty minutes ; put into cold water ; when cold 
remove shells and cut into halves, lengthwise; remove the yolks, 
taking care not to break the whites; mash the yolks; moisten with 
mayonnaise dressing ; add one tablespoonful of finely chopped olives ; 
put the mixture back into the whites, and serve on a bed of lettuce 
leaves. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Cut about an inch off the blossom end of a cucumber; pare and 
cut in very thin slices ; let stand in cold water until very crisp ; serve 
with a French dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Drop six medium-sized tomatoes into boiling water ; let stand two 
or three minutes ; remove the skin ; cut off about one-fourth of each 
tomato; with a sharp knife cut the pulp loose from the sides and 
scoop out the center ; fill each shell with chipped ice and stand in the 
refrigerator for two or three hours; cut pulp and the upper part of 
the tomato into dice ; add equal parts of finely cut celery ; moisten 
with mayonnaise ; fill the tomato cups with the salad and set on a 
lettuce leaf, or garnish the plate with nasturtium leaves. 

Tomato salad may also be served without the cups. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Six modium-sized potatoes, One teaspoonful of dry mustard. 

Four tablespoonfuls of cooked Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

mayonnaise, One-fourth of a teaspoonful of 
<>:ie tablespoonful of minced white pepper, 

parsley, Dash of cayenne. 

One tablespoonful of minced Sweet cream. 

onion, 

Pare and cover the potatoes with boiling water ; add one teaspoonful 
of salt ; boil slowly until tender ; drain ; remove the cover and shake 
over the fire until the potatoes are dry ; when cool enough to handle 
cut into thin slices; mix the pepper, salt and mustard together; add 



36 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

to the cooked mayonnaise and mix until smooth, then add onion and 
parsley ; slowly add sweet cream enough to make it the consistency 
of thin cream ; put a layer of potatoes in the salad bowl ; cover with 
the dressing, then another layer of potatoes and more dressing until 
the bowl is filled ; pour the remainder of the dressing over the 
potatoes and set in a cold place for two or three hours; garnish with 
parsley. 

BEET SALAD. 

Boil beets ; remove skins and cut -into dice ; season with salt and 
pepper; mix with cream dressing; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and 
serve. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Cook three bunches of asparagus in boiling salted water until ten- 
der ; when cold cut off the tender parts ; mix with a cream dressing, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, or serve six stalks with one teaspoon- 
ful of mayonnaise to each person. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One small head of cabbage, One-half of a teaspoonful of salt, 

One-half of a cupful of cooked One-half of a saltspoonf ul of pepper, 

mayonnaise dressing, One-half of a cupful of sweet cream. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Divide the cabbage in four parts ; wash well in cold water ; take off 
all the wilted leaves and cut out the tough parts from the center; 
shred the cabbage very fine with a sharp knife and throw into cold 
water until crisp ; mix the salt, sugar and pepper together and then 
mix into the dressing; add the cream gradually; shake off all the 
water from the cabbage ; mix w^ith the dressing and serve. Hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped fine, may be added to the salad if desired. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Break off all the leaves carefully from a head of lettuce ; wash and 
throw into ice water for one or two hours; then shake off all the 
water; dress with French dressing, and serve. If the leaves are very 
large, tear into pieces. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Wash and cut the celery into strips ; let stand in ice water for half 
an hour; cut into pieces about an inch long and dress with mayon- 
naise dressing, seasoned to taste with pepper and salt and mustard ; 
arrange in the salad bowl and garnish with choice bits of celery. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 37 

APPLE SALAD. 

Three tart apples, Six. tablespoonfuls of whipped 
One-half pound of English wal- cream, 

nuts, One tablespoonful of sugar, 

One tablespoonful of cooked One-half saltspoonful of salt. 

mayonnaise dressing, 

Fare, core, quarter and slice very thin the apples ; break the wal- 
nuts into small pieces ; add the sugar, salt and cream to the dressing: ; 
mix the apples and nuts and add the dressing; serve immediately. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Six bananas, Juice of two large lemons. 

One cupful of sugar, One-fourth cupful of water. 

Cook the sugar and water together for five minutes ; when cold add 
the lemon juice ; slice six bananas very thin into the salad bowl ; 
pour over them the syrup and let stand one or two hours before serv- 
ing. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One-half dozen oranges, One-half pound of white grapes. 

Three bananas, 

Skill and seed the grapes ; take pulp of the oranges, removing the 
seeds and membrane ; peel and slice the bananas very thin ; mix fruit 
together; moisten with mayonnaise, and serve. 



Meat and Pish Sauces 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Cook together one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour ; add 
one cupful of rich milk ; stir until smooth ; season with pepper and 
suit. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Cook one tablespoonful of butter until it browns ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and cook together until a dark brown; add one 
cupful of soup stock and stir until it thickens; season with pepper 
and salt. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, Four tablespoonfuls of horseradish, 

One tablespoonful of flour, One tablespoonfui of chopped parsley, 

Two cupfuls of stock, Juice of one lemon. 

Pepper aiul salt to taste. One tablespoonful of sugar. 



38 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

Cook the butter and flour together ; add the stock and stir until it 
boils ; add the horseradish, sugar, pepper and salt ; let it boil for one 
minute ; remove from the fire and add lemon juice and parsley. This 
is a nice sauce for roast veal. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Pour tablespoonf uls of butter, One can of mushrooms. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, Pepper and salt. 

Two cupfuls of stock, 

Cook the butter and flour together until a dark brown; add the 
stock and stir until it boils, then add the liquor from the mushrooms 
and let the mushrooms simmer five minutes ; season and serve. This 
is to be served with roast or braised beef. 

BEURRE NOIR. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, One tablespoonful of minced parsley, 

One tablespoonful of vinegar, One teaspoonful of lemon juice, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, One-quarter teaspoonful of pepper. 

Cook the butter in a saucepan until it boils ; add the parsley and 
then the other ingredients and boil up once. This sauce is to be 
poured over fried or boiled fish before sending to the table. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One tablespoonful of flour, 

One cupful of stewed and One tablespoonful minced onion, 

strained tomatoes, Salt and pepper. 

Fry the onion in the butter until a light brown ; add the flour and 
cook together, then the tomatoes, and stir until thickened; season 
with pepper and salt. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

One-half cupful of butter, Juice of half a lemon. 

Yolk of two eggs, Few grains of cayenne. 

One-half cupful of boiling water, 

Cream the butter; add the eggs and cream together; add season- 
ings, and then the boiling water ; cook in double boiler until creamy, 
then add lemon juice. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Two cupfuls of boiling water, Two tablespoonfuls of flour, 

One-half cupful of butter, One tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Dash of cayenne, 

Cream the butter, add the flour and beat together ; add gradually 
the boiling water, stirring constantly ; let come to a boil ; add lemon 
juice and pepper, and serve. 



MR AT AND FISH SAUCRS 39 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, Ono cupful of white stock 

One tablespoonful of flour, chicken or veal, 

One cupful of rich milk or cream. One-half of small onion. 

Put the onion sliced into the milk and heat in double boiler ; cook 
the butter and flour together; add the stock, stirring it until it 
thickens ; remove the onion and add the milk ; season with salt and 
pepper. 

A richer sance is made by beating the yolks of two eggs and pour- 
ing the hot sauce into them just before serving. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One-third of a cupful of butter. Juice of half a lemon, 

One tablespoonful of flour. Pepper and salt and a dash of 

One pint of oysters, cayenne. 

Cream the butter ; add the flour and beat together ; cook the 
oysters in their own liquor until they boil ; skim out the oysters and 
add enough water to the liquor to make one pint ; add to the butter 
and flour and cook until it thickens, then add the oysters and season- 
ings. 

TARTAR SAUCE (HOT). 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter, One tablespoonful of Worcester- 
One tablespoonful of vinegar, shire sauce. 
One teaspoonful of lemon juice, One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Brown the butter; heat the vinegar, Worcestershire sauce, lemon 
juice and salt ; add to the browned butter, and serve hot with broiled 

fish. 

SAUCE TARTARE. 

To one pint of mayonnaise dressing add one teaspoonful each of 
chopped pickles, capers, olives, parsley and onion juice; season with 
one-half teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, one fourth 
of a saltspoonful of pepper and a dash of cayenne; serve with fried 
or broiled fish or fish balls. 

CHAMPAGNE SAUCE. 

Two tablespooufuls of butter, One tablespoonful of flour, 

One cupful of rich stock, One-half cupful of champagne or 

Pepper and salt, white wine. 

(look the butter and flour together until a dark brown; add the 
stock and stir until smooth; season with salt and pepper; remove 
from the fire, and add the champagne or wine. 



40 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

MAITRE D' HOTEL SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, One tablespoonful of lemon juice, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt. One tablespoonful of minced pars- 
One-half saltspoonful of white ley. 

pepper, 

Cream the butter ; add the salt, pepper, parsley and, lastly, gradu- 
ally add the lemon juice. 

MINT SAUCE (For Lamb). 

One cupful of chopped mint, One-half cupful of vinegar. 

Three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Use only leaves and tender sprigs of fresh mint; chop, mix ingre- 
dients and let stand an hour before serving. 



Vegetables 



All green vegetables must be cooked in freshly boiled salted water ; 
allow one teaspoonful of salt for each quart of water. The younger 
the vegetable the more quickly it will cook. 

POTATOES. 

Nearly every housekeeper fancied she can cook a potato, and yet 
we have so many soggy and poor-flavored potatoes brought to our 
tables. The potato is composed chiefly of starch and water. When 
subjected to heat the starch cells burst and the potato becomes ten- 
der. If removed from the water or oven as soon as the starch is set 
free the potato will be mealy and dry, but if allowed to cook longer 
the starch will absorb the moisture and the potato be soggy. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

If cooking new potatoes, boil them in their jackets; old potatoes, 
scrub, pare and let stand in cold water two or three hours to freshen 
them; cover with boiling water, to which a teaspoonful of salt has 
been added, and boil gently from twenty to thirty minutes ; medium- 
sized potatoes will require thirty minutes; rapid boiling will break 
the potatoes; when cooked drain off every drop of water; remove 
the cover and shake the saucepan over the fire until the potatoes 
are dry and mealy; serve immediately. The potatoes should be put 
on to boil just one-half hour before they are to be served. If they 
must stand, set the saucepan on the back part of the stove and cover 
with a towel until serving time. The towel will absorb the moisture. 



VEGETABLES 41 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil six medium-sized potatoes; drain and shake over the fire; 
mash fine ; add one teaspoonful of salt and one level tablespoonful of 
butter and beat well; heat a quarter of a cupful of milk; pour the 
hot milk over the potatoes and beat until light and creamy ; pile on 
a hot dish; do not smooth the mound, but leave it irregular; serve 
immediately. 

RICED POTATOES. 

Prepare the potatoes as for mashed potatoes; press through a 
potato-ricer into a hot dish ; put the dish in the oven for five minutes. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of uniform size ; scrub and remove any imperfec- 
tions in the skin ; wipe dry and put into a hot oven ; bake about forty- 
five minutes, or until the potato feels soft when pressed between the 
fingers; when baked cut a slit lengthwise in the potato and press 
the potato gently ; remove immediately from the oven ; cover with a 
towel until serving time; send baked potatoes to the table covered 
with a doily to protect them from the cold air. 

BAKED POTATOES WITH ROAST BEEF. 

Pare small potatoes and put into the pan with the roast beef about 
half an hour before the meat is cooked ; arrange on the dish with the 
beef. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut into six pieces on the length of the potato ; let stand 
in cold water two or three hours; wipe, and fry in very hot fat; 
drain; dust with salt and serve with steaks or chops. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Pare eight or ten large potatoes ; with a vegetable scoop cut little 
balls from the potato ; drop them into cold water and let stand two 
or three hours ; wipe and put in the frying basket ; lower gently into 
very hot fat ; cook until nicely browned about five minutes ; drain ; 
dredge with salt and serve very hot. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

One quart of cold boiled potatoes cut in half-inch dice ; one pint of 
thin white sauce ; one tablespoonful of minced parsley ; pepper and 
salt; season the potatoes with pepper and salt; add to the white 
sauce and cook slowly until the potatoes are hot ; add the parsley and 
stir carefully ; serve immediately. 



42 PKACTICAL COOK BOOK 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

One quart of cold boiled pota- Two tablespoonf uls minced onion, 

toes, cut into dice, One tablespoonful minced parsley. 

Three tablespoonfuls of clarified Salt and pepper, 
butter, 

Season the potatoes with salt and pepper ; brown the onion lightly 
in the clarified butter: add the potatoes and the parsley, cooking 
until nicely browned, being careful not to break them ; serve im- 
mediately on a hot dish. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and cover with boiling salted water; boil gently until tender, 
or parboil the potatoes; pare and cut in halves; dust lightly with 
sugar, salt and pepper; put two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter 
into a small dripping pan; lay the potatoes on the pan and bake in 
a hot oven. 

BOILED RICE. 

Pick over and wash one cupful of rice; drop gradually into two 
quarts of rapidly boiling salted water, and boil rapidly until the rice 
is soft ; drain in a sieve ; hold the sieve under the faucet and let the 
cold water run through it; shake well; turn out on a shallow pan 
and set in a moderate oven to dry; stir occasionally. 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Two quarts of boiling water ; two teaspoonf uls of salt ; six sticks of 
macaroni ; break the macaroni into inch pieces ; wash and drop into 
the salted water ; boil rapidly for thirty minutes ; drain ; hold colan- 
der under faucet and let the cold water run over the macaroni ; 
shake well and drain. 

MACARONI AND CREAM SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce ; season the boiled macaroni with pepper and 
salt ; mix with the white sauce and simmer for five minutes. 

MACARONI AND TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cook the macaroni as directed; add to one pint of tomato sauce, 
and simmer five minutes. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

One pint of white sauce, Ojie cupful of grated cheese, 

Six sticks of macaroni. One-half cupful of bread crumbs. 

One tablespoonful of butter. Pepper and salt. 

Boil the macaroni ; butter the baking dish ; make the white sauce 
and add the grated cheese to the sauce : put the macaroni in the bak- 



VEGETABLES 43 

ing dish ; pour over it the sauce ; moisten the crumbs with melted 
butter ; spread on top of macaroni and bake in moderate oven until 
crumbs are brown. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak one quart of pea beans in cold water over night; put into 
fresh cold water and simmer until soft enough to pierce with a pin ; 
do not boil them long enough to break ; if desired, a small onion may 
be boiled with the beans ; when they are soft, drain and pour cold 
water over them ; when well drained, put in the bean-pot. 

Pour boiling water over one-fourth pound of salt pork that is part 
fat and part lean ; scrape the rind until white ; bury the pork in the 
beans, leaving only the rind exposed. Mix together one teaspoonful 
of dry mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, and one-fourth cupful of 
molasses. Place these in a cup and fill with hot water; stir until 
well mixed and pour the liquid over the beans and pork ; add enough 
water to cover the beans and bake eight hours; add water to keep 
them covered until the last hour, when the pork should be- raised to 
the surface to crisp. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel ; cover with boiling salted water ; cook slowly for ten minutes ; 
drain off the water and add more ; cook for half an hour, or until 
tender; drain and cover with milk and simmer gently for ten min- 
utes; season with pepper, salt and butter, and serve. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Beets retain their delicate, sugary flavor if baked instead of boiled. 
Turn them frequently while in the oven, but do not pierce the skin 
or the juice will run out. When done remove the skins ; cut in cubes, 
and serve hot, with butter, salt and pepper. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash carefully, but do not break the skin; cover with boiling 
water and boil slowly until tender. If young, they will cook in one 
hour ; old beets require longer time. When cooked put in cold water 
and rub off the skin. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

One quart can of tomatoes, One saltspoonful of pepper, 

One teaspoonful of salt, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Four slices of stale bread, One cupful of bread crumbs. 
' One tablespoonful of butter, 

Butter the baking dish ; cut the bread into small squares ; season 
the tomatoes with pepper and salt; put a layer of bread in the 



44 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

bottom of baking dish; pour over it some of the tomatoes, another 
layer of bread and more tomatoes, until the material is used ; moisten 
the bread crumbs with melted butter ; spread over the top ; bake in 
moderate oven twenty minutes, or until the crumbs are nicely 
browned. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Pare the squash, cutting away little but the outer rind; cut it in 
quarters if small, if large divide into small pieces; if the seeds are 
young and small do not remove them ; lay the squash on a plate and 
put in in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water and steam until 
tender, about thirty or forty minutes ; take it from the steamer and 
drain off any water; place in a stewpan and mash well; add butter, 
salt and pepper to taste; set stewpan on back of the range, un- 
covered, for about fifteen minutes, for the squash to dry; stir 
occasionally ; reheat and serve. This squash may be boiled instead of 
steamed, but it is more wet when boiled. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Pick off the outside leaves ; soak in cold water for about an -hour : 
cook in boiling salted water until tender; drain; cover with cream 
sauce, and serve. 

CABBAGE. 

Remove the outside leaves ; cut into quarters and remove the 
tough portion ; cook in boiling salted water ; drain : chop fine ; season 
with pepper, salt and butter. 

SPINACH. 

Pick over and wash thoroughly ; put into a kettle with just enough 
water to keep it from burning; boil until tender; drain and chop 
fine; season with pepper, salt and butter; garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Scrape the parsnips and boil gently until tender, usually an hour ; 
drain, and when cold cut them into long thin slices about one-third 
inch in thickness; season each slice with salt and pepper; dip in 
melted butter and flour and fry in hot fat until both sides are thor- 
oughly browned ; drain well, and serve. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash thoroughly; scrape off the outer skin; tie into bundles; 
cover with boiling, slightly salted water, and boil for fifteen 



BREAD 45 

minutes, or until the asparagus is tender; drain; season with pepper, 
salt and butter, or pour a white sauce over it and serve on toast. 
Asparagus may be served cold with a mayonnaise dressing. The 
water in which the asparagus is boiled can be used for soup. 

BEANS. 

Remove the strings; cut into inch pieces; wash and cook in boiling 
salted water for two or three hours, or until the beans are tender; 
drain; season with butter, pepper and salt; when very young they 
will cook in much shorter time. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Wash the pods before shelling ; shell the peas ; cover the fresh 
green pods with boiling water ; cook ten minutes ; skim out the pods 
and put in the peas ; boil until tender ; the fresh pods are sweet and 
very highly flavored; let the water boil nearly away; season with 
butter, pepper and salt ; a little sugar and sweet cream may be added. 

GREEN CORN. 

Remove husk and silk; put into cold water and let come to boil- 
ing; boil one minute and serve. 



Bread 



VIENNA BREAD. 

Flour, One compressed yeast cake, 

One pint of wetting (half milk One teaspoonful of salt, 
and water), 

Dissolve the yeast in half a cupful of cold water; add the salt to 
the wetting, which should be lukewarm, or at a temperature of about 
eighty degrees, then add the yeast; stir in flour enough to make a 
stiff batter ; beat thoroughly ; add enough more flour to make a soft 
dough ; turn out on a well-floured bread board and knead until soft 
and velvety ; when it will not stick to the hands or board there is 
sufficient flour; put into a buttered bowl; brush the top with melted 
butter or drippings ; cover with a towel and let rise for three hours, 
or until it is double its bulk ; the dough should be kept at a tempera- 
ture of . seventy-five degrees; when the dough is light, shape into 
loaves or rolls and put in the pans ; butter the top and allow it to 
stand one hour, or until it is light; bake in a hot oven; the oven for 
luiking bread should be hot enough to brown a small quantity of 



46 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

flour in two minutes ; bake until nicely browned all over ; it requires 
from forty-five minutes to one hour to bake a loaf of bread. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take a small piece of bread dough about four inches square ; shape 
it into a ball; roll under the palms of the hands upon the bread 
board into a long roll about one inch in diameter; lay in a 
buttered roll pan; butter the top lightly; cover with a towel and 
let rise one hour, or until double its bulk ; bake in a hot oven twenty 
minutes, or until nicely browned; cool the bread and rolls where 
a draught of fresh air will pass around them. 

SOUP STICKS. 

Take a small bit of Vienna bread dough about one inch and a half 
square; roll into a long stick; lay in buttered soup-stick pans, or 
about half an inch apart in a flat pan ; butter the top lightly ; bake 
immediately in a hot oven until nicely browned ; serve with soup. 

MILK BREAD. 

One quart of milk, Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

One compressed yeast cake, Flour enough to make a soft dough. 

Dissolve the yeast in one-half cupful of cold water, heat the milk 
to about eighty degrees ; add the salt and dissolved yeast ; mix in flour 
enough to make a soft dough ; beat well ; turn out on bread board and 
knead until soft and velvety ; put into a buttered bowl ; brush the top 
with melted fat ; cover and let rise for five hours, or until double its 
bulk ; shape into loaves ; butter the top and let rise one hour ;. bake. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Take a piece of lightened milk-bread dough'; roll into a sheet about 
one-half inch in thickness ; let the dough shrink ; cut the rolls with a 
large cutter; pull into an oval shape; spread with softened butter 
and fold over, having the edges come together; brush the top with 
butter and let rise one hour, or until light ; bake. 

TWIN ROLLS. 

Cut the rolls from a sheet of dough a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness ; put two rolls together, spreading softened butter between ; let 
rise for one hour and bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One pint milk and water (equal One tablespoonful of sugar, 

parts), One teaspoonful of salt. 

One compressed yeast cake, 



BKEAD 47 

Dissolve the yeast in one-half cupful of cold water ; have the wet- 
ting lukewarm and add to it the yeast, sugar and salt ; mix in enough 
graham flour, sifted, to make a soft dough ; flour the board well with 
white flour; turn out the dough and knead until it ceases to stick to 
the board ; let rise for three hours, then shape into loaves ; let rise 
one hour, or until it is light ; then bake. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Make the same as graham bread, using half whole-wheat flour and 
half white flour. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two eupfuls of eornmeal, One teaspoonful of salt, 

Two eupfuls of graham flour, Two teaspoonfuls of soda, 

One cupful of molasses, Three eupfuls of buttermilk. 

Mix the eornmeal., graham flour, salt and soda together; add the 
molasses and the buttermilk gradually; fill mould two-thirds full; 
steam in single mould six hours in small moulds, two or three hours. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

One and one-half yeast cakes, One teaspoonful of salt. 

Three eggs, One pint of milk, 

Three tablespoonfuls of sugar, Three tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cover the yeast with cold water ; beat the eggs until light ; heat the 
milk scalding hot; pour the hot milk over the beaten egg; add the 
sugar and salt and allow it to stand until cool (about 80 degrees) ; 
add the yeast, and flour enough to make a soft dough ; turn out on a 
well-floured bread board and knead until smooth ; put into a buttered 
bowl ; cover and let rise three hours, or until light ; soften the butter 
and mix it thoroughly into the dough ; allow it to rise again for two 
hours ; roll into a sheet one inch in thickness and put into a buttered 
pan; spread with melted butter; dredge with sugar and cinnamon 
and let rise one hour; bake in a moderate oven thirty-five minutes. 

BUNS. 

Take a piece of coffee-cake dough ; shape into round buns ; place 
half an inch apart on a buttered pan ; brush the top with melted 
butter; let rise one hour and bake in a moderate oven. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Roll a piece of coffee-cake dough in a sheet one-fourth inch in 
thickness ; cut into strips ; brush with melted butter ; dust with sugar 
and cinnamon ; roll into shape ; place one inch apart on a buttered 
pan and let rise one hour; bake in a moderately hot oven. 



48 PBACTICAL COOK BOOK 

JENNY LIND. 

Take a large piece of coffee-cake dough and mix with it half a 
cupful of currants or stoned raisins ; roll into a sheet half an inch in 
thickness ; cut in circular shape ; brush the top with melted butter ; 
fold over, having the edges meet ; raise one hour ; bake in a moderate 
oven from thirtv to fortv-five minutes. 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 

Two teaspoonfuls of baking Sweet milk enough to make a soft 

powder, dough. 

One teaspoonful of salt, * 

Sift the flour before it is measured ; add salt and baking-powder to 
flour and sift together ; rub the butter into the flour with the fingers ; 
add the milk and mix to a smooth dough; turn out upon the bread 
board ; dust with flour and roll into a sheet three-quarters of an inch 
in thickness ; cut into small biscuit ; butter the biscuit pan and dust 
lightly with flour; lay the biscuit close together and bake in a hot 
oven ten minutes. 



QUICK SWEDISH ROLLS. 

Roll a piece of baking-powder biscuit dough into a sheet one-half 
inch in thickness ; spread with softened butter ; dust with cinnamon 
and sugar; roll like a jelly roll; with a sharp knife cut off bits from 
the end about one-half inch ; lay the flat side on a well-buttered pan ; 
bake in a hot oven ten minutes. These make a very good substitute 
for cinnamon rolls; to be served hot. 

SHORTCAKE. 

One pint of flour, One egg, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 

One teaspoonful of baking pow- One-half cupful of milk, 
der, 

Sift the flour, salt and baking-powder together ; rub the butter into 
the flour; beat the egg until light; add the milk; beat, do not knead, 
the dough ; turn out on a well-floured board ; roll into sheets one-half 
inch in thickness; butter and flour the baking pan; lay a sheet of 
the cake in the pan ; brush the top with melted butter ; put on- a 
second sheet; bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty minutes; 
when baked separate the sheets ; put a layer of fruit, sprinkled with 
powdered sugar, between, another layer of fruit on top and cover 
with whipped cream; strawberries, raspberries, pineapples, oranges, 
or any kind of fruit desired may be used. 



BEEAD 49 

MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls of flour, One tablespoonf ul of melted butter. 

One teaspoonful of baking Two eggs, 

powder, One-half saltspoonful of salt. 

One cupful of milk, 

Sift the flour, baking-powder and salt together ; separate the eggs ; 
add the yolks and then the milk gradually to the flour ; beat to a 
smooth batter; add the melted butter; beat the whites of the eggs 
stiff and add last; bake in gem pans in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

SALLY LUNNS. 

Two cupfuls of flour, One-half cupful of milk, 

One and one-half teaspoonfuls Two eggs, 

of baking powder, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, One-third cupful of butter. 

Sift the flour, salt, sugar and baking-powder together ; separate the 
eggs and beat separately; add the yolks and milk to the flour and 
beat thoroughly, then the melted butter and lastly the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff; bake in gem pans in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 

RAISED MUFFINS. 

One egg, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

One cupful of milk, One-half yeast cake, 

Two cupfuls of flour, One tablespoonful of melted butter. 
One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

Cover the yeast cake with cold water and let it dissolve ; heat the 
milk scalding hot ; beat the egg, salt and sugar together ; pour the hot 
milk over the beaten egg ; let it stand until lukewarm, then add the 
yeast and flour; beat to a smooth batter; let rise for four or five 
hours ; fill muffin pans two-thirds full ; let rise from twenty to thirty 
minutes ; bake in a hot oven. If muffins raise over night use half the 
quantity of yeast. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One and one-half cupfuls of One tablespoonful of melted butter, 

graham flour, sifted, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

One cupful of milk, One egg, 

One tablespoonful of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Mix the flour, salt and baking-powder together ; beat the egg ; add 
the sugar and beat together, then the milk; mix the flour into the 
egg and milk and beat to a smooth batter; add the melted butter; 
bake in buttered gem pans in a hot oven. 

POPOVERS. 

One cupful of flour, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

Two eggs, One cupful of milk. 



50 PKACTICAL COOK BOOK 

Beat the eggs very light ; add the milk and flour alternately until 
all is used ; heat buttered iron gem pans hissing hot ; half fill with the 
mixture; bake in a hot oven thirty-five or forty minutes. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two eggs, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

One and one-half cupfuls of milk, One-half cupful of flour, 

One cupful of corn meal. One and one-half tablespoonfuls 
Two teaspoonfuls baking powder, of melted butter. 

Separate the eggs and beat the yolks until creamy; sift the flour, 
meal, salt and baking-powder together; add the beaten yolks and 
part of the milk and stir to a smooth batter ; add the remainder of the 
milk and the melted butter; lastly add the whipped whites of the 
eggs; bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 

CORN CAKE. 

One cupful of meal, One and one f ourth-cupt'uls of milk. 

One-half cupful of flour, One tablespoonful of melted butter. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Two teaspoonfuls of baking Yolks of two eggs, 

powder, White of one egg. 

Sift the flour, meal, salt, sugar and baking-powder together: beat 
the yolks of the eggs ; add to the mixture ; add the milk, and lastly 
the whipped white of the egg; bake in a. brick loaf pan half an hour 
in a moderate oven. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One cupful of flour, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

One cupful of buttermilk, One-half teaspoonful of soda. 

One egg, 

Mix the flour, salt and soda together; separate the egg; add the 
yolk to the flour and gradually add the buttermilk ; beat the white of 
the egg stiff ; add to the batter ; if sour milk is used instead of butter- 
milk, add one tablespoonful of melted butter ; have the griddle hot ; 
grease it with a piece of fat pork. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Two cupfuls of flour, Two eggs, 

Cup and a half of milk, One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

One tablespoonful of melted Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
butter, 

Sift the flour, baking-powder and salt together ; separate the eggs ; 
add the yolks unbeaten to the flour and the milk gradually ; beat to a 
smooth batter; beat the whites of the eggs stiff; add the melted 
butter to the batter, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs ; cook on 
a hot griddle. 



EGGS 51 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One-half cupful of fine corn meal, One-half teaspoonful of salt. 
One pint of boiling water, One cupful of buckwheat flour. 

Pour the boiling water on the cornmeal ; add the salt and mix 
well ; when lukewarm add half a cupful of white flour ; one cupful 
of buckwheat flour, and one-fourth cupful of yeast, or one-fourth 
compressed yeast cake dissolved in cold water ; let rise over night ; in 
the morning stir down and beat vigorously ; when risen and ready to 
bake add one-fourth level teaspoonful of soda sifted through a fine 
strainer; beat again and fry on hot griddle. 

WAFFLES. 

Two cupfuls of flour, Cup and one-fourth of milk, 

One teaspoonful of baking Three eggs, 

powder, One tablespoonf ul of melted butter. 
One teaspoonful of salt, 

Mix the flour, salt and baking-powder together ; separate the eggs 
and add the yolks to the flour ; add the milk gradually and beat to a 
smooth batter; add the melted butter and lastly the whites of the 
eggs, beaten stiff; heat the waffle iron hissing hot; butter with 
clarified butter or drippings; fill the waffle iron two-thirds full; 
close the iron and cook one minute, then turn and cook two or three 
minutes on the other side ; serve with maple syrup or caramel syrup. 

CARAMEL SYRUP. 

Cook one cupful of sugar and one-fourth cupful of water over a 
hot fire, without stirring, until it begins to brown ; then stir until of 
a rich golden brown ; add one-half cupful of water and stir over the 
fire until smooth ; serve with waffles. 



Eggs 



SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

Put two eggs in a pint sauce pan ; cover with boiling water ; cover 
and let stand eight minutes. This method will cook both white and 
yolk. If you are cooking a large number of eggs, cover with boiling 
water and let stand three minutes; pour off and add more boiling 
water ; let stand five minutes longer. 

GENERAL RULE FOR BOILING EGGS. 

For very soft boiled eggs, cook in boiling water three minutes ; soft 
boiled, three and one-half minutes ; medium soft, four minutes ; hard 
boiled, twenty minutes. 



52 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

HARD BOILED EGGS. 

Cover the eggs with boiling water and boil twenty minutes. Cook- 
ing eggs ten minutes makes the yolks leathery and indigestible ; 
cooking twenty minutes makes them light and mealy. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Butter a sauce plate ; separate two eggs, taking care not to break 
the yolks ; beat the whites stiff ; pile up irregularly upon the sauce 
plate ; make two nests in the whites ; slip in the yolks ; bake in cool 
oven until the white is lightly browned ; season with pepper, salt and 
a bit of butter, and serve. 

SHIRRED EGGS NO. 2. 

Butter individual plates ; break carefully two eggs into each ; sea- 
son with, pepper, salt and bits of butter ; bake in a moderate oven 
until the white is set. 

POACHED EGGS. 

To one quart of water add one teaspoonful of salt and boil 
slowly; break the eggs carefully and slip into the water; dip the 
water over the eggs ; loosen carefully from the bottom of the pan ; 
when the white is set lift on a skimmer ; trim the edges and slip onto 
toast. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Four eggs, One-half teaspoonful of salt. 

One tablespoonful of butter, 

Break the eggs with a fork ; add the salt ; melt the butter in 
omelet pan ; pour in the beaten eggs ; stir for two minutes over a 
hot fire, and serve. 

FRENCH OMELET. 

Five eggs, Five tablespoonfuls of water. 

One tablespoonful of clarified Pepper and salt, 
butter, 

Break the eggs with a fork; add the water and teat together; 
have omelet pan perfectly smooth : put the clarified butter in the 
pan ; when it begins to sizzle pour in the omelet and shake vigorously 
over the fire until the omelet thickens on the bottom; with a fork 
lift the cooked egg arid let the uncooked run under; season with 
pepper and salt ; loosen from the sides of the pan with a flexible 
knife and slip the knife under the omelet; fold and turn onto a hot 
dish ; serve immediately. Grated cheese, chopped ham, chicken or 
parsley may be sprinkled on before folding the omelet. 



PASTRY AND PIES 53 

LIGHT OMELET. 

Four eggs, Half a teaspoonful of salt. 

Four tablespooiif uls of milk, One teaspoonful of clarified butter. 

Separate the eggs ; beat the yolks and milk together ; add the salt ; 
beat the whites stiff and add to the mixture ; melt the butter in an 
omelet pan; turn in the egg mixture and cook until nicely browned 
underneath ; set in a cool oven until the egg is firm ; loosen from 
the pan ; fold and serve immediately. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 

Boil four eggs twenty minutes ; let stand in cold water ten min- 
utes ; separate the yolks and whites ; chop the whites very fine ; cook 
together one tablespoonful of butter ; one scant tablespoonful of 
flour ; one-half teaspoonful of salt ; half a saltspoonful of white 
pepper; add one cupful of rich milk and stir constantly until it 
thickens; add the chopped whites of the eggs; toast six slices of 
bread ; pour the hot cream sauce over the toast ; rub the yolks 
through a fine strainer over the whole ; garnish with parsley. This 
makes an attractive luncheon dish. 



Pastry and Pics 



FLAKY PASTRY. 

One cupful of flour, One-third cupful of shortening, 

One saltspoonful of salt, One-fourth cupful of ice water. 

Have all the material cold ; put the flour and salt into a chopping 
bowl; add the shortening (half butter and half lard) and chop into 
pieces the size of a pea; moisten the pastry with ice water, mixing 
lightly with a fork; turn out on a floured board; draw together into 
oblong shape; roll back and forth into an oblong sheet; fold into 
thirds ; turn half way around and roll back and forth ; fold again and 
turn half way around and roll out for a third time ; brush off all the 
surplus flour ; roll like a jelly roll ; wrap in a napkin and set on ice ; 
it can be used immediately, or stand on ice until the next day. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One cupful of ice water, One teaspoonful of salt, 

One pound of flour, White of one egg. 

One pound of butter, 

Have material and utensils cold ; wash the butter in cold water and 
knead with a spoon until it becomes waxy ; shape into an oblong 
sheet about an inch in thickness and set it in a pan of ice water; mix 



54 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

the salt and flour together ; rub one-third of the butter into the flour ; 
moisten with the egg and ice water; mix with a knife; stir vigor- 
ously ; dredge the board lightly with the flour ; turn out the paste ; 
sprinkle lightly with flour; roll backward and forward; turn the 
paste half way around and roll from you ; when about one-fourth of 
an inch in thickness wipe the remainder of the butter and lay it on 
the paste ; sprinkle lightly with flour ; fold the paste from each side 
until the edges meet, then fold from the ends; pound lightly and 
roll back and forth two or three times ; double the paste and roll 
down to one-half inch in thickness; fold in thirds and turn half 
way around ; roll down again ; repeat this for six times ; place on 
ice to harden for one or two hours before using ; if the paste sticks, 
place it on ice; when chilled it will roll more easily; use as little 
flour as possible. 

MINCE PIE. 

Lean beef, four pounds, Four pounds of currants, 

Two pounds of suet, Half a pound of citron, 

Four quarts of chopped apples, Juice of six lemons, 

Five pounds of sugar, . One pint of molasses, 

Four pounds of raisins, Three quinces, 

Three quarts of sweet cider, One pint of brandy, 

Cloves, cinnamon, mace, and Three ounces each of candied 
nutmeg three tablespoon- orange and lemon peel, 

fuls of each, One pint of white wine, 

Two cupfuls of meat broth, Two tablespoonfuls of salt. 

Cook and mince the meat fine ; chop the suet fine ; cook the quinces 
in the cider until soft : chop the citron, lemon and orange peel ; mix 
all the ingredients and cook slowly until the apples are soft ; add the 
brandy and wine last; pack away in jars covered tightly; take half 
the flaky pastry ; roll into a sheet one-fourth inch in thickness ; cover 
the pie-pan, putting the pastry on quite full ; fill with mince meat, 
having it about half an inch thick ; roll out the other half of the 
pastry about one-eighth inch in thickness; fold over and cut two or 
three slits ; cover the pie and bake in a moderate oven. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind of one lemon. Three-quarters of a cupful of boiling 
Two level tablespoonfuls of corn- water, 

starch. Yolks of two eggs, 

Three-quarters of a cupful of One teaspoonful of butter. 

sugar, Juice of one lemon. 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar together and add to the boiling 
water, stirring until it thickens; add the grated rind of the lemon 
and cook for ten minutes ; beat the yolks of the eggs until creamy ; 
add slowly to the cornstarch ; cooking two minutes longer ; remove 
from the fire and add the lemon juice and butter; line a pie-pan 



PASTRY AND PIES 55 

with flaky pastry and a rim ; cover with soft paper ; fill with pieces 
of stale bread and bake in a moderate oven; when baked remove the 
paper and bread and fill with the mixture ; beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and beat together; cover 
the pie with the meringue and bake in a cool oven until lightly 
browned. 

APPLE PIE. 

Cover the pie-pan with pastry; slice the apples thin, and do not 
fill too full ; if apples are tart and juicy, no water is needed ; sprinkle 
sugar on top of fruit, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon if liked, and 
scatter bits of butter over the top ; roll the top crust ; make incisions 
in the center to allow the steam to escape; moisten the edge of the 
lower crust with water; press the edges close together; cut a strip 
of pastry half an inch wide; moisten around the edge of pie; lay on 
the pastry and press close to the edge ; trim ; bake in a moderate 
oven forty minutes. 

PEACH PIE. 

Prepare the same as sliced apple pie, using as much sugar as neces- 
sary; chop fine three of four peach kernels and sprinkle over the 
fruit ; put on the top crust and bake half an hour. 

CREAM PEACH PIE. 

Line pie-pan with pastry ; put on rim ; prick with a fork ; bake 
until golden brown ; fill with sliced fresh or canned peaches ; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar ; cover with sweetened whipped cream. Straw- 
berries or any small fruit may be used instead of peaches. 

JUICY FRUIT PIES. 

Line a pie-pan with pastry; fill with a piece of linen or old napkin ; 
put on the upper crust and bake in a moderate oven ; stew the fruit ; 
season to taste; when the pastry is baked, separate with a sharp 
knife ; remove the linen ; fill with fruit ; place the cover on top and 
set aside to cool ; many of these shells can be baked at one time and 
filled when required, but the pastry must be reheated ; remember to 
put the filling into the pie while both are hot. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Line pie-pan with pastry; sprinkle lightly with flour; fill with 
peeled rhubarb cut into inch pieces; sprinkle with flour; add one 
cupful of sugar ; put on the top crust and bake from forty minutes 
to one hour. 



56 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a pie-pan with pastry and a rim; dust lightly with flour: 
scald three cupfuls of milk ; beat three eggs until creamy ; add three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and beat together; pour the scalded milk 
over the beaten egg ; add one saltspoonful of salt and one saltspoon- 
ful of nutmeg ; fill the pie-pan and bake slowly ; as soon as it puffs up 
test with a knife ; if it comes out clean it is done. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Two cupfuls of cooked pumpkin, One-fourth teaspoonful of nutmeg, 

Two cupfuls of milk, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

Two eggs, One level teaspoonful of ginger, 

Two tablespoonfuls of molasses, One-half level teaspoonful of cin- 
One-half cupful of sugar, namon. 

Mix in the order given ; line a pie-plate with paste ; put on a rim ; 
fill with the pumpkin mixture ; bake in a moderate oven forty 
minutes. 



Puddings 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound of stale bread One-fourth pound of figs, 

crumbs, One-eighth pound of citron, 

One cupful of hot milk, One-half pound of suet, 

One-half cupful of sugar, One-fourth cup of brandy, 

Four eggs, One-half teaspoonful each of cin- 
One-half pound of raisins, namon, mace, cloves, nutmeg, 

One-half pound of currants, One teaspoonful of salt. 

Cover the bread crumbs with the milk; separate the eggs; beat 
the yolks until creamy; add the sugar and beat together; add to 
the bread and milk ; chop and flour the figs and suet ; add all the 
ingredients to the bread and milk; beat the whites of the eggs stiff 
and add to the mixture; butter the mould; fill three-quarters full; 
steam in a single mould from five to ten hours; serve with brandy 
sauce. 

STEAMED SUET PUDDING. 

Three cupfuls of flour, One cup of water, 

One level teaspoonful of soda, One cup of molasses, 

One cup of chopped suet, One teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 

One cup of raisins and currants, nutmeg and cloves. 

Mix the flour, soda, spices and suet together; add the molasses, 
fruit and water; steam three hours in a single mould, or one hour 
in small moulds ; serve hot, with fruit sauce. 



PUDDINGS 57 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, Yolks of two eggs, 

Juice and rind of one-half orange, Whites of four eggs. 
One-third cup of sugar, 

Cover the bread crumbs with milk; add the rind and juice of the 
orange and the beaten yolks of the eggs ; beat the whites until stiff ; 
add the sugar and beat and add to the mixture ; bake in a buttered 
mould ; set in a pan of hot water; bake until firm ; serve with golden 
sauce. 

FRENCH BREAD PUDDING. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, One saltspoonful of salt, 

Two cupfuls of milk, One tablespoonful of sugar, 

Two small eggs, One teaspoonful of butter. 

Scald the milk and pour it over the bread crumbs ; separate the 
eggs and beat the yolks with the sugar; add to the bread crumbs; 
and salt and the butter, melted ; pour into a buttered baking dish ; 
set in a pan of hot water ; bake in a moderate oven until firm ; when 
cooked spread with jelly; beat the whites of the eggs stiff; add two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and beat together; cover the pud- 
ding with the meringue and bake in a cool oven until nicely browned. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One-half pound of prunes, Juice of one-half lemon, 

One pint of water, Six level tablespoonfuls of corn- 

One cupful of sugar, starch. 

One quarter teaspoonful of salt, 

Wash the prunes and soak over night ; simmer until tender ; 
remove the pits; add enough water to the liquid to make two cup- 
fuls ; mix the cornstarch with the sugar ; add to the prunes and cook 
fifteen minutes, stirring frequently ; when cooked add the lemon 
juice and one-half teaspoonful of almond extract ; dip the mould in 
cold water and drain; fill with the pudding and set away to cool; 
serve cold with whipped cream. 

DELICATE PUDDING. 

Four level tablespoonfuls of corn- One and one-half cupfuls of boil- 

stareh, ing water. 

One-fourth cupful of cold water, One-half cupful of sugar, 

Whites of three eggs, One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Mix the cornstarch with the cold water; pour over it the boiling 
water and cook fifteen minutes ; beat the eggs stiff ; add the sugar 
and beat together; pour the hot starch over the egg and sugar and 
beat until smooth ; add the vanilla ; dip mould in water ; fill with 
pudding; set on ice; serve with boiled custard made from the yolks 
of the eggs. 



58 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One pint of milk, Three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Yolk of three eggs, One-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk; beat the eggs and sugar together; pour the hot 
milk over the beaten egg ; cook until creamy ; add the vanilla and 
set aside to cool. 

CREAM RICE PUDDING. 

One-fourth cupful of rice, One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Two and one-quarter cupfuls of Saltspoonful of salt. 
milk, 

Wash the rice ; add the milk, sugar and salt and allow it to come to 
the boiling point ; simmer slowly and cook for two or three hours, 
stirring occasionally ; when the rice is tender put on the grate in a 
hot oven and brown ; serve hot or cold. 

BREAD AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Four tart apples, Salt, sugar and cinnamon. 

Two slices of stale bread, 

Butter the baking dish ; pare, core and slice the apples ; soak the 
bread in cold water ; put a layer of apples in the bottom of the bak- 
ing dish ; sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and a little salt ; put a 
layer of bread, another layer of apples and cover the top with stale 
bread crumbs ; moisten with melted butter ; bake in a moderate 
oven for half an hour ; cover dish the first fifteen minutes ; serve hot 
with lemon sauce. 

APPLE ROLY-POLY. 

Two cupfuls of flour, One-half cupful of sugar. 

One teaspoonful of baking powder, Two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 

One teaspoonful of salt, One egg, 

One tablespoonful of butter, Milk. 

Sift the flour, salt, baking-powder together; rub in the butter; 
beat the egg ; add to the flour with enough milk to make a soft 
dough; turn out on moulding board and knead until smooth, using 
flour enough to keep from sticking ; roll into sheet one-quarter inch 
in thickness ; spread thickly with sliced apples ; sift over them the 
sugar and cinnamon; roll like a jelly roll; press the edges of the 
dough well together; place the pudding in baking dish; cover and 
steam over boiling water for one and a half hours; or put in pud- 
ding dish and bake forty minutes ; serve with lemon or wine sauce. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

One-half pound of prunes, Whites of six eggs, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, Six tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Juice of one lemon, 



PUDDING SAUCES 59 

Wash and soak the prunes over night ; stew until very soft ; re- 
move the pits and chop very fine; add the lemon juice; beat the 
whites of the eggs very stiff; add the sugar and salt and beat to- 
gether; beat in the chopped prunes; put in buttered baking dish 
and bake in a cool oven thirty minutes ; serve immediately, with 
creamy sauce. 

BAKED CORNMEAL PUDDING. 

Scald one pint of milk ; moisten one and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
cornmeal with a little cold milk ; pour over it the hot milk and cook 
in a double boiler for two hours, stirring frequently; then add one 
level tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt; two 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, two eggs and one pint of cold milk ; 
butter a baking dish and fill with the mixture ; bake in a moderate 
oven one hour; set the baking dish into a pan of hot water. 

CARAMEL CUSTARDS. 

Three eggs. Two-third cupful of caramelized 

Two eupfuls of milk, sugar. 

Scald the milk; beat the eggs; pour the hot milk over the beaten 
eggs; add the sugar, or rather syrup; pour into buttered custard 
cups ; set the cups in pan of hot water ; bake in cool oven until firm ; 
serve with caramel sauce. 



Pudding Sauces 

GOLDEN SAUCE. 

One-third cupful of butter, One-third cupful of milk, 

One cupful of sugar (powdered). Grated rind of half an -grange. 
Yolks of two eggs, 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar and cream together ; then add the 
yolks of the eggs and orange rind ; heat the milk scalding hot ; pour 
onto the butter; cook until it thickens. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cupful of water, One cupful of sugar, 

Eind of half a lemon, One teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

One teaspoonful of butter, Juice of one large lemon. 

Mix cornstarch with sugar ; cook sugar, water, cornstarch and rind 
of the lemon together for ten minutes ; remove from the fire and add 
butter and lemon juice. 



60 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

WINE SAUCE. 

Cream one cupful of butter; add two cupfuls of powdered sugar 
and cream together ; heat a cupful of wine and add slowly : cook 
over boiling water for two minutes. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Cook together one cupful of sugar and one-fourth of a cupful of 
water ; boil rapidly until it begins to brown ; then stir until of a rich 
golden brown : add one-half cupful of water and stir until smooth. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

Cook one cupful of sugar and half a cupful of water for fifteen 
minutes ; beat the yolks of three eggs and stir them into the boiling 
syrup ; set the bowl into a pan. of hot water and beat until it begins 
to thicken ; add one tablespoonf ul of butter and the whites of three 
eggs beaten stiff; lastly add one-third of a cupful of brandy: stir 
thoroughly, and serve. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream ; gradually add one cupful 
of powdered sugar and beat until creamy ; flavor with one teaspoon- 
ful of any flavoring desired. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

Beat butter and sugar together as for hard sauce ; add gradually 
one-third of a cupful of boiling milk, beating all the time : serve 
immediately. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

Cook one cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour and one cup- 
ful of water together, for five minutes ; add half a cupful of any kind 
of fruit juice ; pour over one-half cupful of butter beaten to a cream. 

BERRY SAUCE. 

One pint of berries (raspberries. One and one-half cupfuls of pow- 

. strawberries or blackberries) . dered sugar. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One egg. 

Put the berries in bowl; add one tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar and mash to draw out the juices ; set the bowl in a warm place ; 
beat the butter to a cream ; add the powdered sugar and the beaten 
white of the egg; just before serving add the mashed berries or 
juice. 



Invalid Cookery 



BEEF TEA. 

Buy the top of the round for beef tea ; it contains the most nutri- 
ment and is the best flavored; remove every particle of fat; cut the 
meat into very fine pieces ; add one pint of water to each pound of 
beef; put into a glass jar and set the jar in a pan of warm water; 
do not heat the water above 110 degrees; let stand for two hours; 
strain through a strainer cloth ; season with salt and serve. 

BROILED BEEF TEA. 

Broil a thick round steak for five minutes ; cut into small pieces 
and press out the juice; salt and serve, or if too strong add half a 
cupful of hot water. 

BARLEY WATER. 

One tablespoonf ul of pearl barley, One-half of a lemon, 
Three cubes of sugar, One quart of boiling water. 

Wash the barley in cold water, then put with the sugar and lemon 
juice into the boiling water ; place where it will keep hot for three 
hours; strain and serve; orange juice may be used instead of lemon. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Cover three tablespoonfuls of oatmeal with one quart of boiling 
water; add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt; boil one hour; put 
into an oatmeal boiler and cook two hours ; strain, and serve with 
cream and sugar. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of flaxseed, Juice of two lemons. 
One quart of boling water, 

Pour the boiling water over the flaxseed and steep three hours; 
strain; add the lemon juice and sweeten to taste. 

TOAST. 

Cut stale bread one-third of an inch in thickness ; remove the crusts ; 
place on the toaster on the back part of the stove, turning frequently 
until it is dry; push to the hottest part of the stove and brown 
nicely; toast should be brown and crisp, not hard or soggy in the 
middle. 



62 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

EGGNOG. 

Beat the yolk of one egg until creamy ; whip the white and beat in 
with the yolk; add one tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
wine or brandy and half a cupful of milk ; lastly, a little nutmeg. 

CHICKEN JELLY OR BROTH. 

Clean a small chicken; cut into small pieces; cover it with cold 
water ; heat very slowly and simmer until the meat is tender ; strain, 
and \vhen cold remove the fat; season with salt, pepper and lemon; 
add the shell and white of one egg and cook for five minutes ; skim 
and strain through a fine towel or napkin; put into cups and cool 
if intended for jelly ; small cubes of the breast meat may be moulded 
in the jelly or served in the broth if the patient can take it ; serve 
hot without clearing, if intended for broth. 



Cake 



NOTES ON CAKE MAKING. 

Have the bowl warm, the butter soft, sugar fine ; use a wooden 
spoon for beating ; never mix cake in tin ; have pans perfectly clean ; 
do not grease the pans ; paper the bottom of the pan, and, for butter 
cakes, butter lightly the upper side of the paper. When baked slip 
a knife around the edges of the cake to loosen it; let stand in the 
pan until you can handle the pan without a holder; let butterless 
cake stand in the pan until cold ; when a cake is nearly baked it will 
shrink from the sides of the pan. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Eleven eggs, One teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

One cupful of flour, One teaspoonful of almond or 
One and one-half cupfnls of gran- vanilla extract, 

ulated sugar, 

Sift the flour and cream tartar five times ; sift the sugar twice ; beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; add the sugar gradually ; fold 
in the flour; add the extract; paper the bottom of an ungreased pan, 
one with a tube in the center is best ; bake from forty-five minutes to 
one hour in cool oven ; when baked invert the pan and let stand until 
cold. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Make the same as angel cake, adding the yolks of five eggs, beaten 
light. 



CAKE 63 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, One cupful of flour, 

One cupful of sugar, Juice and rind of half a lemon. 

Separate the eggs; beat the yolks nntil creamy; add half of the 
sugar and beat ; add the grated rind of the lemon ; whip the whites ; 
add the lemon juice, the remainder of the sugar, then the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, and lastly fold in the flour ; bake in an ungreased 
pan one hour ; when done invert the pan and let stand until cold. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cupful of butter, Two-thirds cupful of egg white, 

One and one-half cupfuls of Three cupfuls of flour and three 

sugar, slightly rounding teaspoonfuls 

Two-thirds cupful of cold water, of baking powder, 

One teaspoonful of lemon juice One teaspoonful of almond and 

or one-fourth teaspoonful of mace extract (one-fourth 

cream tartar. mace). 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar gradually and cream together ; 
add the eggs unbeaten, one-half at a time, and beat together until 
light; add lemon juice; sift the flour before measuring; add water 
and flour alternately; mix the baking-powder with the last half 
cupful of the flour and sift into the cake ; beat thoroughly, and add 
the flavoring; beat the cake for five minutes after everything is 
added ; bake in a moderate oven one loaf, fifty minutes. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

PAET I. 

One-half cupful grated chocolate, One-half cupful of milk. 
One cupful of light brown sugar, 

Cook over the fire, stirring until dissolved ; set aside to cool. 

PAET II. 

One-half cupful of butter, Two eggs, 

One cupful of brown sugar, Two and one-half cupfuls of flour. 

One-half cupful of sweet milk, Two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 
One level teaspoonful of soda, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
if lumpy mash out lumps with potato masher.; add the eggs and beat 
thoroughly ; dissolve the soda in the milk ; add the milk and flour 
alternately; add the vanilla. Add Part I to Part II; bake in three 
layers ; ice with boiled icing. 

LEMON QUEENS. 

One-half cupful of butter, Four eggs, 

One cupful of sugar, One-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 

Rind of half a lemon, One-fourth teaspoonful of soda, 

One tablespoonful of lemon One and one-fourth cupfuls of 
juice, flour. 



64 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the rind and juice of the lemon; add eggs, unbeaten, one at a 
time, and beat until smooth and light ; mix the soda and salt with the 
flour and sift into the batter; bake in muffin pans thirty minutes in 
a moderate oven. 

PLAIN LOAF CAKE. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, Three teaspoonfuls of baking 
One and one-third cupfuls of powder, 

sugar, One cupful of milk, 

Three and one-fourth cupfuls of One teaspoonful of orange and 

flour, vanilla extract (half and half). 

Four eggs, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the eggs, unbeaten, two at a time, and beat until perfectly 
smooth; add the milk and flour alternately, mixing the baking- 
powder with the last half cupful of the flour and sift into the cake ; 
add the flavoring; bake in a moderate oven from forty to forty-five 
minutes. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar. One-half cupful of sour milk, 

Two cupfuls of flour, One level teaspoonful of soda, 

One-half cupful of butter, One teaspoonful each of nutmeg, 
Four eggs, cinnamon and cloves. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs ; add the milk and 
flour alternately, mixing the spices and baking-powder with the last 
half cupful of the flour ; bake from thirty to forty-five minutes ; ice 
with boiled icing. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One-third cupful of butter, One and one-half cupfuls of flour, 

One cupful of sugar, One and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
One-half cupful of milk, baking powder. 

Two eggs, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the eggs, unbeaten, and beat thoroughly ; sift the flour and bak- 
ing-powder together; add the milk and flour alternately; bake in 
layers fifteen minutes in moderate oven. 

COCOANUT ICING. 

Beat the whites of two eggs stiff ; add two cupfuls of powdered 
sugar and beat together; mix cocoanut with one-half the icing and 
spread between the layers ; spread over the top and sides of the cake 
and sprinkle thickly with cocoanut on top and sides. 



CAKE 6 5 

QUEEN VICTORIA'S WEDDING CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, One-half cupful of boiled milk, 

Two pounds of currants, One pound of flour, 
One and one-half pounds of white One pound of almonds, 

sugar. Two pounds of citron, 

One pound of butter, One teaspoonful of nutmeg, 

One cupful of brown sugar, One teaspoonful of cloves, 

One quart of brandy, One teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Hlanch and cut the almonds into strips; slice citron; seed and 
clean raisins; wash and dry currants the day before mixing; flour, 
sujrar and almonds are dried and slightly browned in slow oven; 
separate the eggs and beat; cream the butter; add the sugar and 
cream together; add the flour and eggs alternately, mixing spices 
with the flour ; then the milk ; with wooden spatula beat in the fruit ; 
add one pint of the brandy and bake four hours in a moderately 
heated oven ; raise the pan from bottom of oven ; when baked and 
cold turn over it the remaining pint of brandy ; wrap in paraffine 
paper and box ; once a year remove from box and pour over another 
pint of brandy. 

POUND CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, One cupful of sugar, 

Five eggs, Two cupfuls of pastry flour, 

One teaspoonful of baking pow- One teaspoonful of extract vanilla, 
der, lemon and a few drops of mace. 

Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar and cream together ; 
add the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time, beating at least three minutes 
between each egg; add the flour sifted, mixing the baking-powder 
with the last half cupful of the flour ; lastly add the extracts, beating- 
the cake thoroughly ; bake in a loaf in a moderate oven fifty minutes ; 
if baked in a sheet it may be cut in fancy shapes and iced with con- 
fectioners' icing. 

A white fruit cake is made by adding one cupful of stoned raisins 
or currants, or one quarter of a pound of citron to the batter. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of butter, One pound of sugar, 

One dozen eggs, One pound of citron, 

Five pounds of raisins. Three pounds of currants, 

One cupful of molasses, One tablespoonful each of cinna- 

One pint of brandy, mon, cloves, mace, allspice, 

One-half pint of wine, and nutmeg. 

One pound of flour, Two level teaspoonfuls of soda. 

'Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
beat the eggs until creamy and add to the butter and sugar, then 
add the molasses; sift the flour, soda and spices together and add 
gradually, beating thoroughly ; stone and chop the raisins ; chop the 



66 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

citron ; add the fruit, wine and brandy and mix thoroughly ; line a 
large pan with two thicknesses of heavy brown paper ; butter lightly ; 
bake in a moderate oven three hours. 

ALMOND SLICES. 

Six eggs. Three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, 

Two cupfuls of sugar, One level teaspoonful each of all- 
One-half pound of almonds, spice, and cinnamon, 

Three cupfuls of flour, Ono-half teaspoonful each of cloves 
Three teaspoonfuls of baking and nutmeg, 

powder, 

Blanch and chop the almonds ; separate the eggs ; beat the yolks 
until creamy ; mix the chocolate and spices with the sugar ; sift the 
flour and baking-powder together ; add the sugar to the beaten yolks 
of the eggs, then the flour and chopped almonds ; lastly the whipped 
whites of the eggs ; shape in long narrow strips on a flat pan and 
bake twenty minutes ; while warm cut in slices : will keep a long time. 

HOT WATER GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful of molasses, One tablespoonful of ginger, 

One teaspoonful of soda, One tablespoonful of melted butter. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, Two and one-half cupfuls of fiour. 
One-half cupful of boiling water, 

Mix the molasses, ginger, soda, salt, butter and boiling water to- 
gether ; add the flour, sifted ; bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cupful of boiling water, One cupful of flour, 

One-half cupful of butter, Four eggs. 

Put the water and butter in saucepan and boil slowly until the 
butter is melted; then add the flour and allow it to cook until it 
cleans from the sides of the pan, stirring constantly ; when cool, add 
one egg at a time, beating it in throughly ; drop, by small spoonfuls, 
on a buttered papered pan; bake in a moderate oven until puffed 
and crusty about thirty minutes ; when cold, cut on one side and 
fill with whipped cream, sweetened with powdered sugar and 
flavored with vanilla or with a filling made from "Filling for Cream 
Puffs." 

FILLING FOR CREAM PUFFS. 

Two cupfuls of milk, One-third of a cupful of flour. 

Three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, Two eggs. 
One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk ; mix the sugar and flour together and beat into the 
eggs ; pour hot milk over the beaten egg ; cook in a double boiler until 
thickened; stirring constant^ ; when cool flavor with vanilla. 



CAKK 67 

FROSTING. 

White of one egg, One cupful of confectioners ' sugar. 

One tablespoonful of lemon juice, 

Add the sugar gradually to the unbeaten white of the egg ; when 
all the sugar is added beat in the lemon juice and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla; beat until it will pile up in the bowl when dropped 
from the egg-beater. 

BOILED ICING. 

One cupful of granulated sugar, One-fourth of a cupful of water. 

Boil the water and sugar together until it will form a soft ball 
when dropped in ice water ; beat the white of an egg until stiff ; pour 
the boiling syrup over the beaten white of the egg and stir until it 
thickens; flavor with any desired flavoring. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Two squares of unsweetened One and one-half tablespoonfuls 

chocolate, of milk, 

Three-fourths of a cupful of One egg. 

sugar, 

Scrape the chocolate ; add the milk and sugar ; cook until it boils ; 
beat the egg light and creamy ; pour the chocolate mixture over the 
egg ; cook one minute longer. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Four eggs, One-half of a cupful of powdered 

Three-fourths of a cupful of pas- sugar. 

try flour, 

Separate the eggs ; beat the yolks until creamy ; add the sugar and 
beat together ; beat the whites until very stiff and dry and add to the 
yolks ; sift in the flour and stir quickly ; paper a large shallow pan ; 
bake twenty minutes ; while yet warm cut off the edges, spread with 
any kind of jelly and roll up; pin a towel around it and put in a cool 
place; cut with a sharp knife. 

WAFERS. 

One-half cupful of butter, Two cupfuls of flour, 

One-half cupful of milk, One cupful of powdered sugar. 

Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar and cream together ; 
add the milk and flour alternately and mix thoroughly ; spread on a 
sheet iron or turn baking pans bottom side up and wipe very clean ; 
cut into squares when lightly browned and roll while hot ; the wafers 
must be cut and rolled as soon as thev come from the oven. 



68 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

COOKIES. 

One cupful of sugar, Two eggs, 

Six tablespoonfuls of melted but- Two teaspoonfuls of baking povv- 

ter, der, 

Four tablespoonfuls of milk, Flour to make a soft dough. 

Stir the butter into the sugar; beat the eggs and add to the sugar; 
add the milk; sift the baking-powder with one cupful of flour and 
add to the mixture, then enough more flour to make a dough; roll 
out on well-floured board and cut into shape ; bake in quick oven. 

NUT WAFERS. 

Beat until very light two eggs and one cupful Golden C brown 
sugar; add three tablespoonfuls of flour and one cupful of nuts 
finely chopped ; drop on buttered tins and bake. 

SMALL NUT CAKES. 

One pound of butter, Three eupfuls of flour, 

One and one-half eupfuls of sugar, One and one-half teaspoonfuls of 

Four eggs, baking powder, 

Wine glassful of brandy, English walnuts. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
beat the eggs until very creamy ; sift baking-powder with flour ; add 
the eggs to the creamed butter and sugar ; add flour and brandy ; 
shape into balls; put a piece of nut on top; bake in hot oven. 

CARAMEL ICING. 

One cupful of brown sugar, One-third cupful of milk, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Boil slowly until it thickens ; then beat until thick enough to 
spread. 



Delicate Desserts 



STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, One and two-third eupfuls of 
One-third of a cupful of cold strawberry juice, 

water, .Tuice of one lemon, 

One-third of a cupful of boiling Whites of two small eggs, 

water, Six tablespoonfuls of whipped 
One saltspoonful of salt, cream. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water ; when softened add the boiling 
water and stir until dissolved ; add the strawberry juice, lemon juice 
and salt ; set away to cool until it begins to thicken ; whip the eggs 



DELICATE DESSERTS 69 

until stiff; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and beat together; when 
the gelatine is slightly thickened beat with Dover egg-beater until 
light; add the whites of the eggs, and lastly the whipped cream; 
dip the mould in cold water and drain ; fill with the mixture and set 
away to harden; do not use a tin mould; pineapple, grape, lemon, 
orange, currant, raspberries, cherry, etc., may be used instead of 
strawberry ; cut in slices and serve with cake. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-third box of gelatine, One cupful of sugar, 

One-third cupful of cold water, White of one egg, 

One-third cupful of boiling water, One pint of whipped cream, 

Juice of one orange with water One-half pound of figs, 

enough added to make one Juice of half a lemon. 

and one-third cupfuls, 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let stand until soft; cook 
the sugar and hot water to a syrup ; pour the boiling syrup over the 
gelatine and stir until dissolved ; strain and cool ; whip the egg ; add 
cream to egg and stand the bowl in a pan of ice water; add the 
gelatine mixture and stir until it thickens; chop the figs and cover 
with the lemon juice; let stand while making the pudding; add figs 
to the pudding, and let stand on the ice until thickened. 

PEACHES IN JELLY. 

One-third box of gelatine, One and one-third cupfuls of 
One-third cupful of cold water, peach liquid and water, 

One-third cupful of boiling water, Few drops of almond extract. 
One-third cupful of sugar, 

Cut the peaches in slices; cover the gelatine with cold water and 
let soak until soft; cook the sugar with the boiling water and pour 
the hot syrup over the softened gelatine; strain and add the peach 
liquor and water, then the extract; let stand until it begins to 
thicken; peel and slice the peaches; put into a mould; pour the 
slightly thickened gelatine over the peaches and set on ice until it 
thickens ; serve with whipped cream. 

GINGER CREAM. 

One-third box of gelatine. One-fourth pound of crystalized 

One-half cupful of cold water, ginger, 

One-half cupful of boiling water, One pint of whipped cream, 
One cupful of powdered sugar, Whites of two eggs. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft; add the boiling water 
mid stir until dissolved; let stand until cold; when it thickens beat 
until light: whip the whites of the eggs until stiff; add the whipped 
cream ; place the bowl in a pan of ice water ; sift in the sugar ; then 
mid the gelntine and mix lightly; when thickening add the ginger, 



70 PEACTICAL COOK BOOK 

chopped fine and mixed with a little powdered sugar; dip an ice 
cream brick in cold water and drain ; fill with the cream and let stand 
until thickened ; cut in slices when serving. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Three pints of whipped cream, One-half cupful of powdered sugar, 
One tablespoonful of gelatine, One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Measure the cream after it is whipped ; cover the gelatine with cold 
water and let stand until soft; add one-third of a cupful of boiling 
water, stirring until dissolved ; when cold strain into the cream care- 
fully, stirring all the time to prevent lumping; add the vanilla and 
stir until it thickens ; line the cases or a glass dish with lady fingers ; 
fill with the cream and set on ice until serving time. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

One-third box of gelatine, One and one-half eupfuls of milk, 

One-half cupful of cold water, Eight tablespoonfuls of whipped 

Whites of three eggs, cream. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft ; scald the milk ; pour the 
hot milk over the softened gelatine ; whip the cream ; whip the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth ; add the sugar and beat together ; set the 
bowl into ice water ; stir the gelatine until it begins to thicken ; add 
the beaten white of the egg, the cream and vanilla ; stir until thick- 
ened; the gelatine will thicken very quickly after it begins, so the 
cream and egg must be added instantly ; if the gelatine becomes too 
thick to mix smoothly, set the bowl in a pan of hot water and stir 
until it liquifies, then add the cream and egg ; mould ; serve with cake. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-fourth of a box of gelatine, One-half cupful of boiling water, 

One cupful of sugar, Juice of one lemon with water 

Whites of three eggs, enough added to make three- 

One-half cupful of cold water, fourths of a cupful. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let soak until soft ; add 
the boiling water and stir until it dissolves ; beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff ; add the sugar and beat together ; add the lemon juice and 
water to the gelatine and let stand until cold ; set the bowl into a pan 
of ice water; when it begins to thicken beat with Dover egg-beater 
until light ; add the beaten white of the egg and beat until thickened ; 
pour into a glass dish and set on the ice to harden ; never mould food 
which contains acid in tin; serve the pudding with a custard sauce 
made from the yolks of the eggs ; three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; one 
pint of milk; one teaspoonful of vanilla; one-half saltspoonful of 
salt; scald the milk; beat the eggs until creamy; add the sugar and 
beat together; pour the hot milk over the beaten egg and stir over 
the fire until creamy ; when cold add the vanilla. 



SHERBETS AND ICE CRKAiU 



71 



WINE JELLY. 

One box of gelatine, One cupful of cold water. 

Three cupfuls of boiling water, One pint of sherry. 
One pint of sugar, Juice of one lemon. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let stand until softened ; 
add the boiling water and stir until dissolved ; cook the sugar in one 
cupful of water five minutes ; strain the gelatine into the syrup ; add 
the wine and lemon juice ; strain through a napkin and set "on ice for 
six or eight hours. Orange, lemon, grape, or any fruit jelly may be 
made in this way. 

COMPOTE OF FIGS. 

One pound of figs, Two slices of lemon, 

One-half pound of powdered sugar, Two sticks of cinnamon. 

One pint of water, * 

Cut the figs in small pieces; add the water and sugar and cook 
slowly ten or fifteen minutes, stirring constantly the last five min- 
utes; remove from the fire and add lemon and cinnamon; let stand 
until cold ; serve in punch glasses with whipped cream ; sweeten the 
cream with powdered sugar. 



Shcrbcrts and Ice Cream 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING. 

Pour the mixture into the tin can ; put the beater in and put on the 
cover ; put the can into the tub and see that the point on the bottom 
of the can fits into the socket in the tub ; put on the crosspiece and 
turn to see if everything is in place; break the ice very fine; put a 
layer of about four inches in the bottom of the tub, and then a layer 
of salt, using about three times as much ice as salt ; put on another 
layer of ice and one of salt, and continue until the tub is full : turn 
the crank slowly until the cream begins to harden, then turn rapidly 
for about ten minutes. It will be hard to turn when the mixture is 
frozen ; wipe the salt and water from the cover ; turn back the cross- 
piece and take off the cover without displacing the can ; remove the 
beater and scrape the cream from it ; pack the cream down ; put on 
the cover and cork the hole ; put on the crosspiece and pack the ice 
tightly, adding more ice and salt; let stand two or three hours to 
ripen. To mould cream, fill the mould, pressing the cream into 
every corner ; cover, seal by wrapping a piece of muslin, dipped in 
softened fat. around the mould where the cover and mould join; 
pack in ice and salt for an hour; cover the bucket with an old rug 
or piece of carpet. This will prevent the ice melting rapidly. 



72 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

BRICK ICE CREAM. 

Freeze the cream without any flavoring; when frozen remove the 
dasher; set a bowl in a pan of ice water; take about a pint of the 
frozen cream ; mix it until it is creamy ; add the flavoring desired ; 
mix thoroughly and place in the bottom of the mould ; mix another 
portion of the frozen cream with a second flavoring and spread it 
on top ; continue until the mould is filled ; seal and pack in ice and 
salt for an hour or more. To remove it from the mould, dip into 
pan of boiling water; remove instantly and turn out the cream; or 
wrap the mould in a towel dipped in hot water; cut in slices when 
serving. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, One-half cupful of water, 

One cupful of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Pinch of salt, 

Cook the sugar in the water for five minutes; add to the cream; 
add the vanilla ; let cool and freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, A cupful and a half of caramelized 

One-fourth cupful of water, sugar, 

Boil one cupful of sugar with the water, without stirring, until it 
begins to brown; then stir until a golden brown in color; add one- 
half cupful of water and stir until dissolved. To the cream add the 
salt and caramelized sugar and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

One quart of berries, Half a saltspoonful of salt, 

Two cupfuls of sugar, Three pints of cream. 

Wash the berries; add one cupful of sugar and the salt and let 
stand ; cook the other cupful of sugar in half a cupful of water for 
five minutes; add the syrup to the cream; freeze the cream; when 
nearly frozen wipe off the cover and remove carefully; add the 
crushed fruit; mixing it thoroughly with the cream; finish freezing 
and pack. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream, Two cupfuls of sugar, 

One quart of milk, One-half saltspoonful of salt, 

Six eggs, Two tablespoonfuls of flavoring. 

Beat the eggs until creamy ; add the salt ; cook the sugar in a half 
cupful of water for five minutes ; scald the milk ; add the syrup and 
pour the hot milk oven the beaten egg ; cook over boiling water until 
creamy, but not curdled; when cool add the cream and flavoring; 
freeze. 



SHERBETS AND ICE CREAM 73 

The addition of one tablespoonful of gelatine, softened with a little 
cold water and dissolved in the hot milk, makes the cream smoother 
and richer. 

NUT ICE CREAM. 

Almonds, walnuts, cocoanut or pistachio nuts, blanched and 
chopped fine or pounded to a paste may be added to any of the 
recipes for ice cream. Allow one pint of nuts to each quart of cream. 

MOOSE. 

One quart of whipped cream, One and one-half cupfuls of pow- 

Three teaspoonfuls of vanilla, dered sugar. 

Whip the cream stiff ; drain ; add the vanilla and sift in the sugar. 
Line ice cream mould with white paper ; pour in the mixture ; cover 
and seal the cover by dipping a piece of muslin, about one inch in 
width, into softened fat or grease ; draw it tightly around the mould 
where the cover joins; fasten; pack the mould in a pail of ice and 
salt, using three times as much ice as salt ; cover the pail with an old 
rug or blanket ; let stand five or six hours ; when taken from the ice 
and salt dip quickly into a pan of boiling water or wrap in a towel 
dipped in hot water ; turn out the moose ; cut in slices and serve with 
cake. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

One pint of chestnuts, One pint of sugar, 

One pint of boiling water, One pound of French candies, 

One pint of almonds, One pint of cream, 

Yolks of six eggs, One pint of pineapple. 

One tablespoonful of vanilla, 

Shell, blanch and boil the chestnuts twenty minutes, or until soft ; 
mash and rub through a sieve ; blanch the almonds ; chop fine and 
pound to a paste ; boil the sugar and water together fifteen minutes ; 
beat the yolks of the eggs until creamy; add the syrup; return to 
the fire and cook until it thickens ; beat until cold ; add the chestnuts, 
fruit, candies, almonds and vanilla, and freeze; pack and let stand 
two or three hours to ripen. 

To blanch almonds or chestnuts, shell the nuts and pour boiling 
water over them; let stand two or three minutes; then throw them 
into cold water ; remove the skins. 

TO WHIP CREAM. 

Very thick or very thin cream will not whip ; the former will turn 
to butter and the latter will make a liquid froth. 

Cream that will hardly pour should be diluted with equal quantity 



74 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

of milk before whipping. The cream should be icy cold. If you have 
not a whipping churn, the simplest way to whip cream is to pour 
into a deep bowl ; set in ice water and beat with a Dover egg-beater. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One tablespoonful of gelatine, One pint of water, 

One pint can of pineapple. Juice of one lemon, 

One pint of sugar, 

Boil the sugar in a half cupful of water five minutes; cover the 
gelatine with cold water and let stand until softened; pour the hot 
syrup over the softened gelatine and stir until dissolved; to the 
pineapple add the pint of water' and juice of the lemon ; strain the 
dissolved gelatine into the mixture and freeze. 

The whites of three eggs may be substituted in place of the gela- 
tine, if desired. Any fruit juice may be substituted in place of pine- 
apple. 

LEMON ICE. 

One quart of water, Two cupfuls of sugar. 

Juice of six lemons, 

Cook the sugar in one cupful of water five minutes ; add the quart 
of water and lemon juice and freeze. 

FRAPPE. 

Freeze a fruit ice to a mush and serve in sherbet glasses. 



Beverages 

COFFEE. 

Mocha and Java coffee are supposed to make the best mixture. 
The best grade, however, should be bought. It should always be 
ground just before using and never bought ground, as it quickly 
loses its flavor, even if kept in air-tight tins. 

Coffee should not be boiled longer than one or two minutes ; when 
coffee is boiled for a long time we lose from our beverage the deli- 
cious aroma which permeates the room, leaving the coffee bitter. 
Allow one tablespoonful of coffee for each cupful, and one for the 
pot. 

Five tablespoonfuls of finely One egg white, or two egg shells, 

ground coffee, Two cupfuls of boiling water. 

Two cupfuls of cold water, 



BEVERAGES 75 

Have the coffee ground medium (not too fine) ; mix the dry 
coffee with the egg white ; add the cold water and mix thoroughly ; 
let come to the boiling point, slowly ; boil one or two minutes ; then 
add the boiling water and set on the back part of the stove where it 
will keep hot, but will not boil, for fifteen or twenty minutes ; serve 
with hot milk and cream. Do not boil, simply scald the milk ; boiled 
milk gives an unpleasant flavor. The egg is used to clear the coffee. 

* 

VIENNA COFFEE. 

To one-fourth of a cupful of hot milk add two tablespoonfuls of 
whipped cream ; fill the cup with hot coffee. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape fine an ounce and a half of chocolate ; put into a saucepan 
with one cupful of water ; cook until smooth ; add to it three cupfuls 
of scalding hot milk ; mix thoroughly and serve with whipped cream. 
If unsweetened chocolate is used add two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

TEA. 

In making tea an earthern teapot is best ; fill the teapot with boil- 
ing water and let stand five minutes; empty, and put in the tea; 
allowing one teaspoonful for each cup; cover with freshly boiled 
water and allow it to stand on the stove where it will keep hot, but 
will not boil, for five minutes ; or put in a cosy. 

LEMONADE. 

Juice of three and grated rind Half a cupful of sugar, 
of one large lemon, Four cupfuls of water. 

Cook the sugar and grated rind of the lemon in half a cupful of 
water for five minutes ; let cool squeeze the lemons ; add the syrup 
and the remainder of the water ; strain and serve ice cold. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Apple, Salad 37 

Apples, Fried : 31 

Asparagus, Salad 36 

Asparagus 44 

Bacon 32 

Barley, Water 61 

Bavarian Cream 70 

Beans, Boston Baked 43 

" String 45 

Beef, Boiled , 18 

" Broth 5 

" Corned 19 

" Boast 22 

" Soup ...; 5 

" Steak 21 

" Stew 20 

" Tea : 61 

Beets, Baked 43 

" Boiled 43 

Beverages 74 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 48 

Bisque of Lobster 12 

Boiled Dinner 19 

Boiled Meats 18 

Boning, Fish 13 

Bouillon 6 

I5re;i(l, Boston Brown 47 

" Corn 50 

" Graham 46 

" Milk 46 

" Vienna 45 

" Whole Wheat 47 

Broiled Hamburg Steak 32 

" Steaks 21 

Broiling -. 21 

Broth, Chicken 6 

Buckwheat Cakes 51 

Buns 47 

Cabbage 44 

Salad 36 

Cake, Angel 62 

" Cocoanut 64 

" Corn 50 

" Delicate 63 

" Devil's Food 63 

" Fruit 65 

" German Coffee 47 

" Instructions in Mixing 62 



Cake, Jelly Roll 67 

' Lemon Queens 63 

' Plain Loaf 64 

1 Pound 65 

' Spice 64 

' Sponge 63 

' Sunshine 62 

' W'edding 65 

Cakes, Almond 66 

' Buckwheat 51 

' Flannel 50 

' Griddle 50 

' Short 48 

' Small Nut 68 

Calf's Liver 32 

Caramel Syrup 51 

" Custards 59 

" Icing 68 

Cauliflower 44 

Celery Salad 36 

Charlotte Eusse 70 

Cheese Balls 30 

Chicken, Broiled 22 

Croquettes 28 

Fricassee 20 

Fried 27 

Eoast 25 

Salad 23 

Stew 19 

Chocolate 75 

Chowder, Clam 12 

" Fish 13 

Coffee, Making 74 

" Vienna 75 

Cookies 68 

Corn, Green 45 

Cream, Bavarian 70 

Ginger 69 

Puffs 66 

Sauce 37 

Strawberry 70 

Whipped : 73 

Croquettes 27 

Chicken 28 

Fish 16 

Meat . 29 

Potatoes 28 

Rice .. .. 29 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX CONTINUED 



Croquettes, Eoyal 28 

" Sweetbreads 28 

Croutons 9 

Crullers 30 

Cucumbers '.... '.. 35 

Custard, Boiled 58 

" Baked 59 

" Caramel 59 

Doughnuts 31 

Drawn Butter 38 

Duck, Tame 25 

" Wild 26 

Egg Balls 9 

Salad 35 

Vermicelli 53 

Baked 52 

Boiled 51 

for Invalids 51 

Poached 52 

Scrambled 52 

Shirred 52 

Eggnog 62 

Fat for Frying 26 

" to Clarify 26 

Fish, Baked 14 

" Balls 15 

" Boiled ....: 14 

" To Bone 13 

" Broiled 13 

"' Chowder 13 

" To' Clean...; 13 

Cod 15 

Creamed 15 

Croquettes 16 

Escalloped 16 

Fried 14 

Roes, Fried 16 

Salad 34 

Salt : 15 

Sauces 37 

To Skin 13 

Souffle 15 

Filling for Cream Puffs 66 

Flannel Cakes 50 

Force Meat Balls 9 

Frappe 74 

Freezing 71 

French Dressing 33 

Fricasseeing 20 

Fritters, Apple 29 

" Batter 29 

" Chicken 30 

Fruit 30 

" Oyster 30 

Frogs Legs, Fried 16 

Frosting 67 



Frying 26 

Game, To Clean and Truss 24 

Gelatine Desserts 68 

Gems, Graham 49 

Giblets, To Clean 24 

Gingerbread 66 

Gravy 24 

Gruel, Oatmeal 61 

Ham, Boiled 18 

Hamburg Steak 32 

Hollandaise Sauce 38 

Horseradish Sauce 37 

Ice Cream 72 

Caramel 72 

To Freeze 72 

To Mould 72 

Nut 73 

Neapolitan 72 

Vanilla 72 

Strawberry 72 

Ices, Lemon 74 

Icings 67 

Invalid Cookery 61 

Jelly, Chicken '. 62 

Jenny Lind 48 

Lamb Chops, Broiled 22 

" " Breaded 27 

" Fricassee 20 

" Eoast 24 

Lemon Pie 54 

" Sauce 59 

Lemonade 75 

" Flaxseed 61 

Lettuce 36 

Liver, Calf's 

Lobster, Bisque 12 

" Salad 34 

Materials Served in Soup 9 

Macaroni 42 

' with Cream Sauce 42 

" with Cheese 42 

" with Tomatoes 42 

Maitre d 'Hotel Sauce 40 

Mayonnaise Dressing 33 

" Dressing, Cooked 33 

Meats, 18 

" Corned 19 

" Sauces 37 

Meringue 55 

Mint Sauce 40 

Moose 73 

Muffins 49 

" Sally Lunns 49 

" Raised 49 

Mush, Fried 30 

Mushroom Sauce.... .. 38 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX CONTIM ED 



Mutton Chops 

" Fricassee 20 

" Stew 20 

New England Dinner 19 

Oatmeal Gruel 61 

Omelets, French 52 

" Cheese 52 

" Ham . 52 

" Light 53 

Onions, Boiled . 43 

Orange Pudding 57 

" Jelly 71 

Oyster Cocktail 17 

'" Plant 10 

" Stuffing 27 

" Stew 17 

Oysters, Creamed 17 

' Escalloped 18 

' Fritters 30 

' Fried 30 

' Panned 17 

' Patties 17 

' a la Poulet'te 18 

' Raw 17 

Pan Broiling 21 

Parker House Rolls 46 

Parsnips, Fried 44 

Peas, Green 45 

Paste, Puff 53 

I astry, Flaky 53 

ie, Apple 55 

Custard 56 

Juicy Fruit 55 

Lemon 54 

Mince 54 

Peach 55 

Peach Cream 55 

Pumpkin 56 

Rhubarb 55 

i opovers 49 

Pork and Beans 43 

Pork Chops 32 

" Roast 24 

Pot Roast 23 

Potato Balls 41 

Potato Salad 35 

" Soup 12 

Potatoes, Baked . 41 

Boiled 40 

Browned 41 

Creamed 41 

French Fried 41 

Lyonnaise 42 

Mashed 41 

Rice 41 

Saratoga 41 



Potatoes, Sweet 42 

Poultry, To Clean 24 

" To Draw 24 

" To Dress for Roasting.... 25 

" Gravy 25 

" To Stuff and Truss 25 

Prune Pudding 27 

Pudding, Apple Roly Poly 58 

Bread, French 57 

Bread and Apple 58 

Corn Meal 59 

Delicate 57 

Fruit, Steamed 56 

Fig 69 

Gelatine 68 

Nesselrode 73 

Orange 57 

Plum, English 58 

Prune 57 

Prune Souffle 58 

Rice Cream 58 

Sauces 60 

Snow 70 

Strawberry 68 

Suet 56 

Yorkshire 23 

Rabbit Curry 20 

Rhubarb Pie. 55 

Rice, Boiled 42 

" Croquettes 29 

Roasting 22 

Rolls, Cinnamon 47 

" French 46 

" Parker House 46 

" Swedish 48 

" Twin 46 

Salad 36 

" Asparagus 36 

" Apple 37 

" Banana 37 

" Beet 36 

" Cabbage 36 

" Celery 36 

" Chicken 33 

" Cucumber 35 

" Egg 35 

" Fish 35 

" Fruit 37 

" Lettuce 36 

" Lobster 34 

" Meat 35 

" Potato 35 

" Shrimp 34 

" Sweetbread 34 

" Tomato 35 

Sallv Lunns.... .. 49 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX COXTINIED 



Salmon on Toast 16 

Salsify Soup 10 

Sauces, Meat and Fish 37 

Bechamel 39 

Beurre Noir 38 

Brown 37 

Butter 38 

Champagne 39 

Horseradish 37 

Hollandaise 38 

ivfaitre d 'Hotel 40 

Mint 40 

Mushroom 38 

Oyster 39 

Tartar . 39 

Tartare 39 

Tomato 38 

White 37 

Pudding '60 

Berry 60 

Brandy 60 

Caramel 60 

Custard 58 

Foamy 60 

Fruit 60 

Golden 59 

Hard 60 

Lemon 59 

Wine 60 

Sauteing 31 

Sherbet, Pineapple 74 

Shortcake, Apricot 48 

" urange 48 

" Strawberry 48 

Shrimp Salad 34 

Souffle, jr'ish 15 

" Prune 58 

Soup, Beef 5 

Bisque Lobster 12 

Bouillon 6 

Chicken 6 

Clear Beef 5 

Clam 12 

Consomme 7 

Cream Asparagus 10 

Cream Celery 10 

Cream Chicken 10 

Cream Salsify, 10 



Soup, Cream Tomato 11 

' Fish 13 

' Macaroni 8 

' Muligatawney 8 

' Mock Bisque 11 

' Mock Turtle 7 

' Oyster 17 

' Green Pea 11 

' Split Pea 11 

' Potato 12 

' Tomato 9 

' Vegetable 

' Vermicelli 8 

Spinach 4 

Squash, Summer 44 

Stew, Beef 19 

" Chicken 19 

" Veal 20 

Stock, To Clear 5 

" To Make 5 

" Mixed 6 

Stuffing, Bread 25 

" Oyster '. 

Sweetbreads 24 

" Creamed 24 

" Salad 34 

Tartar Sauce 

Tartare Sauce 

Tea "5 

" Beef 

" Beef Broiled 

rimbales 

Toast 

Tomato Salad 

" Escalloped 

Turkey, Boast 25 

Veal Cutlet 31 

" Heart 2 

" Eoast 24 

" Stew 

Vegetables 

Wafers 67 

Wafers, Nut 

Waffles 

Water Ice 

Wine Jelly 

Yorkshire Pudding 23 



A few of the many reasons why 

CARNATION MILK 



I S BEST 



w 

Carnation Cows 
browse in the 
sun-kissed fields 
and meadows in 
the States of 
Washington and 
Oregon west of 
the mountains 
where the pas- 
tures are green 
the year 'round 




Nature has pro- 
vided numerous 
springs and the 
best of mountain 
streams 

Climatic condi- 
tions are perfect 

Wholesome 
well - bred cows 
and perfect 
sanitation go to 
make up the rest 



SERIAL NUMBER 2205 



On account of its purity, richness in butterfat, etc. Miss 

Tracy recommends and uses Carnation Milk in all her 

lectures and demonstrations 

Pacific Coast Condensed Milk Co. 

OFFICES: SEATTLE, WASH. 

Tactories : KENT. WASH. MOUNT VERNON, WASH. FOREST GROVE, ORE. 

CHEHALIS, WASH. MONROE, WASH. HILLSBORO, ORE. 

JOHN H. SPOHN Co., AGENTS, SAN FRANCISCO 




FOLGERS 



FOIGER'S 






HIGH GRADE HIGH PRICE 

J. A. FOLGER & CO. 

SAN FRANCISCO 



TX 

715 

176 
| I 


Imj tracy's 

"new cook book 


1 


'?-' .' '. "'" " ' ' . "' '    ...;.  ' .. 




Class JIL X H \ 5 

Book X- T XG2, 

GoRiightN 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



PRACTICAL 

COOK BOOK 



BY 



MISS SUZANNE TRACY 

TEACHER OF COOKERY 



h 



SAN FRANCISCO 

PAYOT. STRATFORD & KERR PRINT 

19 8 



UBrtARY of GONGrtESS! 
iwo uooies rttjceivod 

JUN 27 1^08 



QLASSJA- XXc< ** 
107 2S7 

COlW B. 



Copyright 1908 
Miss Susanne Tracy 






PREFACE 

In presenting- these pages to the public, I do so at the earnest 
solicitation of many of my pupils who would have in book form my 
recipes and suggestions. I therefore put into print this pamphlet of 
recipes where the formula is given, followed by the explicit directions 
of how to put together the ingredients: with such notes and hints as 
may be of value to the housewife. 

The directions are not theories, but the fruits of practical experi- 
ence. The arrangement of the subject-matter is designed to make 
the book a household reference book that may be depended upon. 



Soups 



There are two kinds of soup stock: what is known as clear stock 
and mixed stock. To make a clear soup we always use fresh meat 
and bone; the mixed stock being made from bones and pieces of 
meat left from roasts and cooked meats. 

As this latter is made from bits of meat and bone left over, no 
household should be without a stock-pot. Into the stock-pot should 
go only such meat and bone as is perfectly sweet, the smallest piece 
of tainted meat will destroy the soup. Stock can be cooked on the 
back of the stove while other cooking 1 is going on. It should be 
cooled quickly and not allow T ed to stand on the stove to cool slowly. 
Stock allowed to cool slowly becomes sour very readily. 

To prepare soup bone for clear stock remove the outer skin from 
the meat and bone, wipe carefully with a Avet cloth. (Do not put 
into a pan of water and wash, as the water draws out the juices, 
which should be kept for the soup.) Have the butcher break the 
bone in many pieces. In buying a soup bone buy half meat and 
half bone. 

White stock is made from chicken and veal. 

Allow on<' quart of water to each pound of meat and hone. 

CLEAR BEEF STOCK. 

Buy a shin or shank of beef, having half meat and half bone 
(about five pounds) : remove the skin. Have the butcher break the 
bone and cut the meat into small pieces; add five quarts of cold 
water and two teaspoonfuls of salt ; let come to a boil slowly ; place 
where it will keep just below the boiling point; simmer slowly for 
six or eight hours, or until the meat falls from the bone; strain and 
cool quickly; when cold skim off the fat. For beef broth heat the 
plain beef stock, season with salt, pepper and a little minced parsley, 
and serve. This is the simplest form of beef soup. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Strain the soup stock, after removing the fat, into a kettle; do not 
allow the sediment to pass. To four quarts of stock add one small 
onion cut fine, one bay leaf, one stalk of celery, two sprigs of parsley, 
a small bouqut of sweet herbs, ten pepper corns, and six cloves; boil 
gently for fifteen minutes; strain through strainer cloth. Serve as a 
simple beef soup. 



g PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

MIXED STOCK. 

Cover with cold water the trimmings, tough pieces of meat and 
bone left from roasts and broils ; allow one teaspoonful of salt for 
each quart of water; cook slowly for about four hours: then add 
half an onion, six cloves, six pepper corns, two sprigs of thyme, one 
bay leaf; simmer for two hours longer: strain and cool quickly. 
This stock can be used in sauces or served as a simple soup, gar- 
nished with vegetables or some well-cooked tapioca or sago. 

CHICKEN STOCK. 

Select a hen fowl (not as strong flavored as a rooster) ; singe and 
scrub ; prepare as for roasting, omitting the stuffing : place in a kettle 
and cover with boiling water; cook slowly until the fowl is tender; 
remove from broth, cooling the broth quickly: when cold, remove 
the fat. The chicken may be used for salad, creamed chicken, hash, 
or served as cold boiled chicken. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

To one quart of chicken broth add four tablespoonfuls of boiled 
rice and two teaspoonfuls of minced parsley: heat boiling hoi ; sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and serve 

BOUILLON. 

Five pounds of beef, taken from One tablespoonful of minced 

the round, onion. 

Two and one-half quarts of cold One small stalk of celery. 

water, One sprig of parsley, 

One level teaspoonful of salt. Four cloves and four pepper corns. 
One carrot. 

Cut the meat into small pieces; cover with cold water and add 
the salt: let come to the boiling point slowly: simmer from six to 
eight hours: add the seasoning and cook one-half-hour longer; strain 
and cool quickly: next morning remove the fat: heat scalding hot: 
season with salt and pepper and serve. In making bouillon all the 
seasoning except salt and pepper may be omitted if preferred. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Two quarts of beef stock, One-fourth cupful of barley. 

One carrot. One onion. 

One-half medium-sized yellow Two potatoes, small, 

turnip. Salt and pepper. 
Two stalks of celery. 

Cook the barley in one quart of water for two hours ; add the stock 
and all the vegetables, cut fine, except the potatoes: boil gently for 
an hour, or until the vegetables are almost tender: then add the 
potatoes and cook fifteen minutes ; season with salt and pepper. 



SOL' PS 7 

CONSOMME. 

One quart of chicken or veal Two tablespoonfuls of minced 

stock. onion. 

One quart of beef stock. Two cupfuls of carrots, parsnips. 

Four cloves, and yellow turnip, cut fine. 
One inch piece each of mace and One-half bay leaf. 

cinnamon. Four pepper corns. 

Two eggs. One small stalk of celery. 

One sprig of parsley. Eind and juice of half a lemon. 

Brown the vegetables in bacon fat. taking care not to let them burn ; 
add them and the spices to the stock and cook slowly one and one- 
half hours: strain and remove the fat ; break the whites and shells of 
the eggs into one cupful of cold water and mix thoroughly; add to 
the soup and let come to the boiling point ; add lemon, salt and 
pepper: cook slowly twenty minutes: strain through a strainer cloth 
which has been wet in cold water: reheat the soup: garnish each 
plate with a thin slice of lemon and three allspice berries; serve very 
hot. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

One calf's head. Four allspiee, 

Pour quarts cold water. Four pepper corns. 

One tablespoonful of salt. One blade of mace. 

One carrot. One chili. 

( >ne turnip. One quart brown stock. 

Two onions. Three eggs. 

Celery stalk. One lemon, 

Onedialf inch stick of cinnamon. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Four cloves. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Wash, scrape and clean the head and soak an hour or more in cold 
water: remove the brains and tongue and let stand in cold water to 
be cooked separately: cut the head in many pieces, put into the 
kettle : add the cold water and heat slowly : skim thoroughly ; add the 
salt and simmer three hours, or until the meat slips from the bones: 
lay the meat fiat on a plate so it can be easily cut when cold: put the 
bones on to boil again: add the spices and vegetables and simmer 
until reduced To two quarts; strain and set aside to cool: when cold 
remove the fat : half an hour before serving put the stock on to boil. 
In another saucepan brown the butter: add the cornstarch or flour 
and brown; add one saltspoonful each of ground pepper, thyme or 
marjoram, and one teaspoonful of salt: add the brown stock and 
cook until it thickens, add to the soup: cut the face meat into half- 
inch cubes: add one cup of meat, diced: boil the eggs twenty minutes 
and cut into slices, or make the yolks into e^^ balls. Make force meat 
balls with the reserve meat. Put the meat balls and hard-boiled eggs 
into the tureen: add the soup and serve with slices of lemon, or omit 
the lemon and add half a cup of sherry wine. 



g PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Two quarts of beef stock, One cupful of vermicelli, 

One teaspoonful of salt, One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Dash of cayenne pepper, 

Cook the vermicelli in boiling water about fifteen minutes ; drain ; 
heat the stock boiling hot; season with salt and pepper; add the 
vermicelli, and serve. The vermicelli may be broken or left whole, 
according to fancy. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

One quart of stock, Two sticks of macaroni, 

One teaspoonful of salt, One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Break the macaroni into small pieces; drop into boiling salted 
water and cook rapidly until the macaroni is tender; drain and allow 
the cold water to run over it; cut into one-fourth-inch pieces; heat 
the stock boiling hot ; season with pepper and salt; add the macaroni, 
and serve. 

MULLIGATAWNEY. 

Fowl, three pounds, One-half teaspoonful of pepper, 

Two large onions, Veal, three pounds. 

Three stalks of celery, One small carrot 

One tablespoonful of curry pow- Four tablespoonfuls of butter, 

dor. Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

Five tablespoonfuls of flour, Five quarts of water. 

Cut the veal into small pieces; dress the fowl as if for roasting: 
put into the soup kettle ; add the water ; cover and let come to the 
boiling point; simmer for four hours, or until the fowl is tender; re- 
move the fowl from the kettle; put butter or chicken fat into a 
saucepan; cut vegetables very fine; cook in the butter fifteen 
minutes; skim the vegetables out of the fat and add them to the 
soup ; to the fat add the Hour and cook until brown ; then add the 
curry powder; add the whole to the soup, and cook for two hours; 
season with salt and pepper, then strain and skim ; remove skin and 
bone from the chicken ; cut into small pieces ; return the soup to the 
soup kettle after straining; add the chicken, and simmer gently for 
thirty minutes; serve with boiled rice. 

Note.  To skim soup when you cannot allow it to stand until cold. 
Pour the soup into a bowl just large enough to hold it ; set the bowl 
on a plate or in another vessel and fill until it runs over; let stand 
two or three minutes, then slowly pour a little cold water in at one 
side, and the fat will run over into the plate. 



SOUPS 9 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart can of tomatoes, One tablespoonful of minced pars- 
One tablespoonful of sugar, ley, 

Four cloves, One pint of water, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One pint of soup stock or water, 

One tablespoonful of minced Four pepper corns, 

onion, Two teaspoonfuls of salt. 
One tablespoonful of cornstarch, 

To the tomatoes add the water, sugar, cloves, and pepper corn; 
stew slowly until the tomatoes are tender; press through a strainer; 
remove only the seeds and skin. To the stewed and strained tomatoes 
add the soup stock or water. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the 
onion and parsley and cook until lightly browned, then add the corn- 
starch and cook together ; slowly add one cupful of the stock, stirring 
until it forms a smooth sauce ; add to the soup and cook fifteen min- 
utes ; season with salt and pepper, strain, and serve with croutons. 

CROUTONS. 

Butter and cut into one-half-inch dice a slice of stale bread one- 
half inch in thickness ; toast until nicely browned ; serve with soup. 

FORCE-MEAT BALLS OF COOKED MEAT. 

One cup of cooked meat, One-half saltspoonful of pepper, 

One teaspoonful of chopped pars- Yolk of one egg, 

ley, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One teaspoonful of lemon juice, One tablespoonful of flour, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, A few drops of onion juice. 

Chop the meat very fine ; add the seasoning ; add the yolk of the 
egg, beaten, and mix until smooth. Make into balls the size of a 
nutmeg ; roll in flour ; put butter in omelet pan ; when brown put in 
the balls and cook until brown; shake the pan occasionally to pre- 
vent burning. 

EGG BALLS. 

Boil three eggs twenty minutes ; put them in cold water and when 
cool remove the shells ; cut carefully through the white and remove 
the yolks whole ; cut into quarters and serve in soup, or rub yolks to 
a smooth paste ; add one teaspoonful of melted butter ; one saltspoon- 
ful of salt ; a speck of pepper. Moisten with the beaten white or yolk 
of one raw egg, using enough to shape easily ; shape into balls about 
the size of a nutmeg ; roll in flour and fry in butter until brown, or 
drop into the hot soup and cook five minutes. 



Cream Soups 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 

Save the water in which the asparagus has been cooked; make a 
cream sauce of two tablespoonfuls of butter; two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, two cupfuls of rich milk and one level teaspoonful of salt ; pu1 
the butter into a saucepan and melt ; add the flour and cook together, 
being careful not to allow it to brown; add the milk cold, stirring 
constantly until it thickens; then add the water, about one quart; 
season with salt and pepper, and serve. The tender tips of asparagus 
may be served in the soup as a garnish. 

CREAM OF CELERY. 

Make a celery broth by stewing some tough bits of celery in water 
until the water is nicely flavored; cook together one tablespoonful of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour; then add two cupfuls of 
celery broth, cold; stir until it thickens; add another cupful of the 
broth and a cupful of rich milk; heat to the boiling point; season 
with salt and pepper, and serve. 

CREAM OF SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Cook together on tablespoonful of butter and one of Hour: add two 
cupfuls of salsify broth, made by stewing the salsify in water until 
the water is well flavored; stir constantly until it makes a smooth 
sauce; add two more cupfuls of the broth and simmer Ave minutes; 
then add one cupful of milk and half a cupful of cream; heat boiling 
hot : season to taste, and serve. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN. 

'Two tablespoonfuls of butter, Two tablespoonfuls of Hour. 

One cupful of milk. One cupful of cream. 

Three cupfuls of chicken broth. Salt, pepper and celery salt. 

Cook together the butter and flour; add chicken broth, cold, stir- 
ring constantly until it thickens: add milk and cream; season to 
taste; heat boiling hot, and serve. If the broth be added hot, add a 
little at a time until a smooth sauce is formed, then add more rapidly. 



CREAM SOUPS 11 

CREAM OF TOMATO, OR MOCK BISQUE. 

One quart can of tomatoes, One and one-half cupfuls of rich 

Four cloves, milk, 

One tablespoonful of sugar, Four pepper corns, 

One tablespoonful of butter, A pinch of soda, 

One pint of water, One tablespoonful of flour. 

Stew the tomatoes, water, cloves, pepper corns, sugar and soda 
together until the tomatoes are tender; then strain, removing the 
skin and seeds ; cook the butter and flour together ; add the 
milk cold, stirring constantly until it forms a smooth sauce ; add one 
pint of the stewed and strained tomatoes; season with pepper, salt 
and cayenne; heat scalding hot, and serve immediately; if allowed 
to stand the soup will curdle ; should it curdle beat with a Dover 
egg-beater until smooth. 

PUREE OF GREEN PEA. 

One tablespoonful of butter, Two cupfuls of white stock  
One and one half cupfuls of veal or chicken. 

water, Two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Two cupfuls of green peas, 

Cook the peas in the water until tender ; drain and rub through a 
sieve ; cook together the butter and flour ; add the stock and stir 
until thickened ; add the peas and the water in which they have been 
cooked ; simmer five minutes ; season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

Note.  To make puree of any vegetable, cook the vegetable until 
very tender ; rub through a puree sieve, and use to thicken the soup. 
Alwa} r s use a small quantity of cornstarch, arrow root or flour in 
puree to keep the vegetable from settling and to make the soup 
smooth. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

One cupful dried split peas, One saltspoonful of white pepper, 

Three pints of cold water, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One-half teaspoonful of sugar, One tablespoonful of flour. 
One teaspoonful of salt, 

Soak the peas over night in cold water; put on to boil in three 
pints of fresh cold water and simmer until dissolved; as the water 
boils away add more, keeping three pints in the kettle; when soft, 
rub through a strainer; add enough water, stock, milk, or cream to 
make it the consistency of thin cream ; cook the flour and butter to- 
gether ; add the salt, pepper and sugar ; add a little of the strained 
soup, stirring constantly until you have a smooth sauce ; then add to 
the soup and simmer ten minutes; serve with croutons. It must 
always be made with flour to hold the peas in solution, otherwise it 
will separate as it cools. 

This soup may be varied by cooking a ham-bone with the peas, or 



12 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

adding a cup of stewed and strained tomatoes just before serving. 
One small onion chopped and browned in butter and cooked with the 
peas gives a delicious flavor. 

BISQUE OF LOBSTER. 

Two large cans of lobster. Dash of cayenne pepper, 

One quart of milk, One pint of water, 

One teaspoonful of salt. One tablespoonfu] of butter, 

One saltspoonful of white pepper, Two tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Cut the tender portions of the lobster into tiny enbes. aboul one 
cupful; put llic remainder into the water and cook twenty minutes, 
adding more water as it boils away; cook the flour and butter to- 
gether, add the milk, and stir until smooth; add the seasonings; 
strain in the lobster liquor and cook five minutes; put the diced lob- 
ster into the tureen and strain the boiling soup over them ; serve im- 
mediately. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Three potatoes, One teaspoonful of minced onion, 

One pint of milk. One stalk of celery. 

One teaspoonful of salt. One-half saltspoonful white pepper. 

Oik -half teaspoonful celery salt. Dash of cayenne pepper, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One-half tablespoonfu] of Hour. 

Pare the potatoes and soak hall' an hour in cold water; pul them 
into boiling water and cook until very soft; drain and mash; cook 
the onion and celery in the milk in double boiler: strain and add to 
the mashed potato; cook the butter and flour together, stir it into 
the boiling soup; let it boil five minutes, and serve very hot. The 
Hour thickening keeps the potato from settling and makes the soup 
smooth and creamy. If a richer soup is desired, use one quart of 
milk', and just before serving add two eggs, well beat on. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Two dozen clams. Six potatoes. 

One-fourth pound of salt pork, One onion. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of salt. 

One quart of milk. Six crackers. 

One-half teaspoonful of pepper, 

Buy the clams in the shell: scrub the shell until clean: put clams 
into a pan with one cupful of water and cook until the top ones open ; 
take the clams from the shell and cut off the neck with a pair of 
scissors; chop the necks tine, leaving the soft part whole; save the 
clam broth; pare and cut the potatoes into thin slices and soak in 
cold water one hour; cut the pork in small pieces and fry in a 
pan; add the onion, chopped tine, and cook until lightly browned; 
put the sliced potatoes into a kettle; strain the pork fat' into it and 



FISH 13 

add enough boiling water to cover the potatoes; cook until the 
potatoes are tender, or about ten minutes ; add the clam broth and 
the same amount of water; add salt and pepper and clams, and lastly 
add the hot milk and butter; put the crackers into the tureen and 
pour in the chowder; serve very hot. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Remove the bones from a fresh white fish ; cut the fish into two- 
inch pieces; cover the bones with water and let simmer for fifteen 
minutes; proceed the same as for clam chowder, using the water in 
which the bones have been boiled instead of the clam juice. 



Fish 

Fish should be perfectly fresh and thoroughly cooked. In buy i tig, 
select only those which have firm flesh, clear eyes and the skin and 
scales bright. If the fish looks limp it is not fit to use. It should be 
washed quickly, and not allowed to stand in the water. A little salt 
in the water keeps the flesh firm. 

Clean the fish as soon as possible, washing it in salt and water; 
remove the scales by scraping with a small knife, beginning at the 
tail and working towards the head: split it down the middle and 
remove the entrails. 

To skin a fish, cut a thin strip down the backbone, slip the knife 
under the skin at the lower part and slip it up through the bony part 
of the gills; hold the bony part and pull the skin off towards the tail ; 
remove it from the other side in the same way. 

TO BONE A FISH. 

Clean the fish; then take a sharp boning knife, and. beginning at 
the tail, slip the knife between the bone and flesh close to the bone; 
scrape away the flesh carefully ; scrape the flesh away from the 
second set of bones and slip the knife under; treat the other side in 
the same way, then remove the bone, cutting away the dorsal fin. 

BROILED FISH. 

Clean and bone the fish ; grease the broiler with a piece of salt pork 
to keep the fish from sticking; put fish between the broiler and broil 
over the coals until cooked ; the thickness of the fish will determine 
the time. 



j4 PEACTICAL COOK BOOK 

TO BROIL IN THE OVEN. 

Clean and bone the fish, grease the fish sheet with salt pork (a fish 
sheet is a piece of sheet iron or tin) ; place the fish, skin down, upon 
the sheet; season it with pepper and salt and brush with melted 
butter; then dust lightly with flour; place on the upper grate of a 
very hot oven and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, according 
to the thickness of the fish ; remove from the sheet and put on a hot 
platter; spread with Maitre d' Hotel sauce, and serve. 

BOILED FISH. 

The general rule for boiled fish is to wash in cold water and wipe 
dry; pin the fish in a piece of strong while cotton cloth to keep it 
from breaking; cover with boiling water, to which one teaspoonful of 
salt has been added, and cook gently. Rapid boiling will break the 
fish. A fish weighing from four to six pounds will require thirty 
minutes; allow about three minutes longer for cadi additional pound. 
For boiled white fish a teaspoonful of lemon juice may be added to 
the water. When the fish is cooked remove from the kettle; drain 
well; serve on a hot platter garnished with sprigs of parsley. Serve 
boiled fish with Hollandaise sauce, drawn butter, or egg sauce. 

BAKED FISH. 

Scrape and wash the fish; for a fish weighing four to six pounds 
take three cupfuls of stale bread crumbs, moisten them with three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter; add one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of minced parsley 
and one egg beaten light; rub the fish with salt and pepper; put the 
stuffing into the body of the fish and fasten together with skewers; 
butter the fish sheet and place the fish upon it, putting il into a bak- 
ing pan; dredge with pepper, salt and flour; cover the bottom of the 
pan with hot water; bake in a hot oven about one hour, basting every 
fifteen minutes; when cooked, remove the sheet from the pan and 
slip the fish off carefully into a hot platter; pour around it tomato 
or Hollandaise sauce; garnish with lemon points and sprigs of 
parsley. 

FRIED FISH. 

Fish to be fried should be cleaned, washed and dried ; rub with salt 
and pepper; roll in flour and cornmeal (half of each) ; then dip in 
beaten egg (add one tablespoonful of water to each egg), and roll in 
dry bread crumbs ; fry in very hot fat ; serve very hot, with Beurre 
Noir poured over it, or serve with sauce tartare. 

Any kind of fish can be fried in the same way, cutting large fish 
into serving pieces. 

Note.  For temperature of fat see article "Fat for Frying." 



FISH  15 

SALT CODFISH. 

Wash and soak in cold water over night ; change the water and 
cook slowly until it comes to the boiling- point; set back where it will 
not boil, but keep hot for about half an hour ; pick over and remove 
all skin and bones ; it is then ready to be made into different dishes. 

CREAMED CODFISH. 

One tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of flour, 

One and one-half cupfuls of milk, One-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. 

Two cupfuls of cooked codfish, i 

Cook the butter and Hour together; add the milk cold, stir con- 
stantly until thickened; add the fish and pepper; simmer five min- 
utes ; serve on toast. 

Note.  Any cold white fish may be used instead, of cod. The addi- 
tion of one teaspoonful of minced parsley gives a good flavor. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

One cupful raw codfish, One teaspoonful of butter, 

Four medium-sized potatoes, One-fourth saltspoonful of pepper. 

One egg, 

Wash, pare and cut the potatoes into quarters ; let stand in cold 
water; wash the fish and pick into half-inch pieces; remove the 
bones ; put the potatoes and fish into a kettle, cover with boiling water 
and cook until potatoes are soft, about twenty-five minutes; drain 
off all the water; mash and beat until very light; add the butter and 
pepper, and when slightly cooled add the egg" and more salt if 
needed; shape in a tablespoon; fry in hot fat until a golden brown; 
use a frying basket and fry only four or five at a time ; more will cool 
the fat. The fat should be hot enough to brown a piece of raw 
potato in forty seconds. Drain on soft paper and serve immediately. 

FISH SOUFFLE. 

Prepare the fish as for fish balls ; add one-fourth of a cup of cream 
and two eggs beaten separately. Bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty-five minutes. 

FISH BALLS. 

One cupful of cold cooked fish, Two cupfuls of mashed potatoes, 

One egg, Two tablespoonfuls of milk. 

Two tablespoonfuls of melted Pepper and salt. 
butter, 

Mix the fish and potato together; moisten with butter, milk and 
egg; season to taste; shape into balls and cook in hot fat three 
minutes. 

Note.  If cold mashed potato is used, heat the potato and add milk 
enough to moisten it. 



16' PRACTICAL TOOK BOOK 

ESCALLOPED FISH. 

One cupful of cold cooked fish. One tablespoonful of butter, 

One tablespoonful of flour, One cupful of milk. 

One-half cupful of stale bread Pepper and salt. 
crumbs, 

Cook butter and Hour together; add milk cold and stir until it 
thickens ; add one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of pepper. Butter baking dish; put a layer of fish in the bottom, 
then a layer of while sauce, another layer of fish and another layer 
of white sauce; cover the top with bread crumbs moistened with 
melted butter; bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or 
until the crumbs are nicely browned. 

FRIED FISH ROES. 

Wash the roes and cook ten minutes in boiling water, having added 
one teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of lemon juice or 
vinegar; then plunge into cold water; drain; roll in bread crumbs, 
then in beaten egg. then in seasoned bread crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat until brown. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

One pint of cold cooked fish, One egg, 

One pint of hot mashed potatoes, One-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, 

One-half cupful of hot milk, One teaspoonful of salt. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of minced parsley. 

Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and set aside to cool; when 
cold shape into balls; roll in fine bread crumbs; dip in beaten eu:i: to 
which one tablespoonful of water has been added ; roll again in bread 
crumbs; fry in hot fat; serve at once. All work except frying may 
be done the previous day. 

FRIED FROGS' LEGS. 

Skin and wash the legs in cold water; dry them well on a towel; 
season with salt, pepper and lemon juice; roll in fine dried bread 
crumbs ; dip in beaten egg, again into fine bread crumbs ; plunge in 
boiling fat and cook five minutes; use a wire frying basket: serve 
very hot with tartare sauce. 

SALMON ON TOAST. 

Drain off part of the oil from a can of salmon ; heat the fish, adding 
one-fourth cup of water; season with salt and pepper; make a cream 
sauce of one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one 
cup of milk; lay the salmon on the toast and pour over it the hot 
cream sauce ; garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 



Oysters 



Oysters served on the half shell should be opened just before 
serving. Six, on a large plate, with half of a lime in the center, 
should be served to each person. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Two tablespoonfuls of California Three tablespoonfuls of tomato 

oysters, catsup, 

One tablespoonful of lemon or One-fourth teaspoonful Worcester 

lime juice, shire sauCe, 

Pinch of salt, One or two drous of tobasco sauce. 

Have all the ingredients cold; mix the catsup, lime juice, Worces- 
tershire sauce, salt and tobasco sauce together ; put the oysters in the 
glass and pour over the sauce ; serve in punch or champagne glasses. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

One tablespoonful of butter, Two dozen Eastern oysters, 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt, Half a saltspoonful of pepper. 

Melt the butter in an omelet pan or chafing dish ; add the salt and 
pepper and then the oysters; cook until the edges curl and the 
oysters become plump ; serve on toast. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Two dozen large oysters, or Pepper and salt, 

three dozen smail ones, One tablespoonful of butter. 

One quart of milk, 

Finger the oysters carefully and remove any pieces of shell ; scald 
the milk in double boiler ; cook the oysters in their own liquor until 
the edges curl; then add the milk and butter; season to taste; serve 
with crackers. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Heat patty cases and fill with creamed oysters. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One can of Eastern oysters or One blade of mace, 

fifty California oysters, One tablespoonful of butter, 

One pint of cream or rich. milk, One tablespoonful of flour. 

Put the oysters in a saucepan and cook in their own liquor until 
plump ; put the cream and mace in double boiler and heat scalding 



Ig PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

hot; cook butter and flour together; remove the mace and add the 
hot cream slowly to the butter and flour; season with salt and 
pepper ; add the cooked oysters, and serve. 

OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. 

Cook one quart of oysters in their own liquor until they boil; 
when they begin to boil, strain; cook together one tablespoonful 
of butter and one tablespoonful of flour; add one cup to the oyster 
liquid and stir until a smooth sauce is formed ; add one pint of 
cream, one level teaspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of white 
pepper, dash of cayenne pepper and a slight grating of nutmeg; 
beat the yolks of four eggs: add one-half cup of cold cream; add 
the oysters to the cooking mixture and then the beaten yolks of the 
eggs; cook two or three minutes, stirring all the time; serve im- 
mediately with puff paste cakes or crackers. If liked, a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice may be added just as the oysters arc taken from the 
fire. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Moisten stale bread crumbs with melted butter, and season with 
salt and pepper; butter the baking dish; put a layer of bread crumbs 
in the bottom and then a layer of oysters, another layer of crumbs 
and another layer of oysters; cover the whole with the crumbs and 
bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or until the crumbs 
are nicely browned. 

Note.  For escalloped oysters a shallow dish or platter should be 
used, allowing only two layers of oysters to each dish. If more are 
used the upper and under layers will be overcooked while the inner 
ones may be underdone. 



Meats  Boiling 



All fresh meats to be boiled should be plunged into boiling water 
and allowed to boil rapidly for ten or fifteen minutes, to coagulate 
the albumen and thus close the pores, keeping in the juices of the 
meat. After the meat has boiled for ten minutes place it where it 
will just simmer, until tender. Meat that boils rapidly will be 
stringy. 

HAM. 

Scrub a ham with a brush until perfectly clean; then place it in 
a large kettle with cold water and let it come to the boiling point ; 
simmer gently until tender  it requires about twenty minutes to 



STEWING 19 

the pound  let it stand in the water until cold, then remove the skin ; 
roll in fine bread crumbs ; stick the fat parts with whole cloves and 
bake in a moderate oven about half an hour. 

TONGUE. 

Cook slowly in boiling water until tender  about five or six hours 
 then plunge into cold water and peel off the skin. For salt tongue, 
soak over night and cover with cold water instead of boiling water 
when putting on to cook. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Wash and cover with cold water ; simmer slowly five or six hours, 
or until tender ; let stand in the water in which it was boiled if it is 
to be served cold. To press corned beef, remove the bones after it is 
cooked and put it under a heavy weight. 

NEW ENGLAND DINNER. 

Six pounds of corned beef, One small white turnip, 

One pound of salt pork, One small yellow turnip, 

Two or three beets, Six or eight medium-sized pota- 

Two carrots, toes of uniform size. 

One head of cabbage, 

Wash and soak the corned beef and pork in cold water ; put it on 
to boil in fresh cold water; simmer until it is tender; remove from 
the kettle and skim the liquor ; wash and pare the turnips and carrots 
and cut into inch slices ; cut the cabbage into quarters and wash care- 
fully ; put the carrots, turnips and cabbage into the boiling liquor 
and cook until tender ; pare and add the potatoes half an hour before 
serving time ; cook the beets in a separate kettle ; remove the skin, 
cut in half-inch slices ; when the vegetables are cooked, drain ; put 
the beef and pork in the center of a large platter ; serve the carrots, 
potatoes and turnips around the edge, with the cabbage and beets 
in separate dishes; the beets can be cooked the day before and 
covered with vinegar, serving them as pickled beets ; always cook 
the beets in a separate kettle ; the corned beef may be cooked the day 
before and pressed, saving the liquor for cooking the vegetables. 



Stewing 

CHICKEN STEW. 

Singe, draw, wash and cut the chicken, at the joints, into serving 
pieces ; cover with boiling water ; add one teaspoonful of salt and 
half a saltspoonful of pepper; simmer until tender; remove all the 
large bones and put the chicken, on toast, on a large platter; cook 



2() PRACTICAL cooK BOOK 

together one tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour; 
add one and one-half cupfuls of cold milk and stir until smooth ; 
add the chicken broth gradually; season with pepper and salt and 
celery salt; pour the hot sauce over the chicken and toast, and serve 
Tf you wish to serve dumplings with the chicken stew, ten minutes 
before the chicken is cooked let the liquid boil up. then put in the 
dumplings. When serving dumplings omit the toast. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Cut the chicken as for stew; brown in hot butter before stewing; 
make a brown gravy by browning the butter before adding the 
gravy; serve on toast. 

LAMB FRICASSEE. 

Two pounds breast of lamb or One onion. 

mutton, 

Cut the lamb in small pieces; dredge with salt and flour and brown 
in drippings; cut the onion tine and brown in fat; add to the meat; 
put in a stewpan and cover with boiling water; simmer until the 
bones slip out; remove the bones; strain the liquor and skim off the 
fat; when the liquor boils again add the meat, pepper and salt ; then 
add one quart of green peas or one pint of cooked rice, and simmer 
fifteen minutes. 

VEAL STEW. 

Cut the veal into small pieces; cover with boiling water; add one- 
half teaspoonful of salt and one small onion, browned; simmer until 
veal is tender; add four potatoes, cut in thick slices; cook together 
one tablespoonful of butter and two of Hour; add one cupful of cold 
milk; stir until smooth; add the veal broth gradually; remove bones 
Prom veal and simmer all together for five minutes, then serve. 

Beef and mutton stew are made in the same way. 

For stewing, the cheapest and toughest meat is used; by long, slow 
cooking it becomes tender. 

CURRY OF RABBIT. 

Cut the rabbit into serving pieces; brown in hot butter; remove 
from the butter and put into stew kettle: add one large onion, cut 
into slices; cook one tablespoonful of flour and one of curry powder 
in the butter in which the rabbit was browned; add one cupful of 
water or stock and stir until thickened; then add one cupful of 
strained tomatoes, one teaspoonful of sugar and pepper and salt 
to taste: pour this over the rabbit and stew until tender: add a 
cupful of milk; heat boiling hot; serve with boiled rice. 



Broiling 



Broiling is the most perfect way of cooking meat and fish. There 
are three ways of broiling,  what is known as broiling proper, pan 
broiling and oven broiling. 

Broiling proper is to broil directly over the coals ; the fire must be 
hot, clear and free from smoke. For meat it must be hotter than for 
fish. Pan broiling is cooking upon a smoking hot griddle. Oven 
broiling is cooking in a very hot oven. The most delicious results are 
obtained by broiling steaks, chops, young chickens, squab, etc., 
directly over the glowing coals. Charcoal is best for broiling, but 
hard wood, coal or gas may be used, provided it is free from 
smoke. The point to be remembered in broiling is to have the fire, 
griddle or oven hot enough to instantly sear the outer surface of the 
meat. 

The best cuts of steak make the most delicious broils, tenderness 
being one of the essential qualities. It must be remembered, how- 
ever, that a second-class cut of steak taken from a first-class bullock 
will make a much better broil than a first class cut taken from a 
second-class beef. When selecting beef see that it has a thick rim 
of fat, that the lean is well marbled with fat and is of a bright red 
color after being exposed to the air for a short time. 

STEAKS. 

Have steak cut thick  two inches is the proper thickness for a 
steak ; it should never be cut less than one inch. Trim off the suet ; 
put between a double broiler and place it as close to the coals as 
possible ; allow it to cook for about a minute, or until the under side 
is Avell seared, then turn and sear the other side ; remove a little dis- 
tance from the coals and cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, turn- 
ing constantly. A steak that is broiled perfectly should be puffed out 
in the center and should be of a delicate pink color throughout. 
Serve immediately on a warm platter ; garnish with sprigs of parsley 
or watercress. 

PAN BROILING. 

To pan broil a steak, have the griddle smoking hot ; rub with fat ; 
place the steak on the griddle and press close ; let it cook one minute ; 
then, with a knife, loosen from the griddle and turn; sear the other 
side; reduce the heat slightly and cook from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes, turning very frequently ; do not prick the steak with a fork or 



22 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

the juice will escape. The steak can be easily turned with two 
knives by slipping- one under the steak and assisting to turn with the 
other. Broiled steak is served as soon as taken from the fire, sea- 
soned with pepper and salt. Maitre d' Hotel sauce is sometimes 
served with broiled steak. 

TIME FOR BROILING STEAKS. 

Steak two inches in thickness requires from fifteen to twenty 
minutes; one and one-half inches, from twelve to fifteen minutes; 
and one inch, from eight to ten minutes. 

LAMB AND MUTTON CHOPS. 

Remove the outer skin and all the suel from the chops; broil over 
the coals or on a hot griddle: serve with tomato sauce and season 
with salt and pepper; garnish with parsley. 

Note.  Before cooking lamb or mutton always remove the skin. 
It is in the skin that the disagreeable flavor exists. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Only very young chickens should be broiled. Singe and draw the 
chickens, picking out all pin-feathers; split down the hack; clean 
and wipe with wet towel; break the joints; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; grease a double broiler; turn the inside of the chicken to 
the fire first ; turn frequently, being careful the lire is not too hot; 
broil about twenty minutes, or until the bird is tender and nicely 
browned; spread with softened butter and serve on a warm plate; 
garnish with parsley or watercress. 



Roasting 



Roasting and baking are now synonymous terms. We speak of 
roasting meats and baking breads, yet we use the same oven for both. 
Roasting formerly meant to place the meat on a spit before the open 
fire, turn it frequently and baste constantly to keep from burning. 
Roasting to-day means to bake in a hot oven. 

ROAST BEEF. 

There are seven prime ribs in a beef. Any of them will make a 
first-class roast. Do not have the ribs removed, but have them cut 
in two-inch pieces up to the thick muscle; cut these pieces of bone 
off, to be braised and served as short ribs of beef ; place the cut sur- 
face of the roast on a smoking hot griddle and press close; let cook for 



BOASTING 23 

two or three minutes, or until it is nicely seared ; turn and sear the 
other side ; set the roast, resting upon the edges of the ribs, on a rack 
in a dripping pan ; put into an oven hot enough to bake bread, and let 
cook ; do not season the meat and do not put water in the pan ; when 
the oven is at the proper temperature you will hear a gentle sputter- 
ing when the oven door is opened  if smoke issues from the oven it 
is too hot  if you do not hear a gentle sputtering increase the tem- 
perature. The time required for roasting depends upon the thickness 
of the roast ; fifteen minutes is allowed for each inch in thickness ; a 
roast four inches in thickness will cook rare in one hour; measure 
across the thickest part of a roast. A rump roast is seared in the 
same way and placed upon a rack in a hot oven ; allow fifteen min- 
utes to the pound. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of flour, One pint of milk, 
Three eggs, One teaspoonful of salt. 

Sift the flour and measure ; add the salt ; separate the eggs and add 
the yolks, unbeaten, to the flour; add a little of the milk and mix to 
a smooth paste ; add the rest of the milk gradually ; beat whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the batter ; pour into the roast- 
ing pan forty-five minutes before the roast is cooked ; serve hot with 
the roast of beef; if the roast is very fat pour some of the fat from 
the pan before putting in the pudding. 

BRAISED BEEF OR POT ROAST. 

Six or eight pounds chuck roast or a piece of the rump; trim and 
rub with pepper and salt ; cut a large onion into dice and brown in 
salt pork fat; put the roast into a braising pan; pour over it one 
quart of boiling water; add the onion; cover closely and cook in a 
moderate oven about four hours, turning after two hours, and add 
more water as it evaporates, so as to have three cups of gravy ; when 
tender take up the meat ; skim off the fat from the gravy and thicken 
with a tablespoonful or flour wet in a little cold water and strained 
into the gravy ; season with pepper and salt and a little lemon juice. 

VEAL HEART. 

Remove the tough membranes and soak in cold water and salt one 
hour ; wipe and stuff with stale bread crumbs seasoned with salt and 
pepper and moistened with melted butter; rub the heart with salt, 
pepper and dredge with flour ; fry brown in a pan with a little fat 
salt pork; place in braising kettle; add one pint of water, one tea- 
spoonful of minced onion ; sprig of parsley, three cloves, three pepper 
corns, one small carrot cut fine ; cover tightly and cook two hours in 
a moderately hot oven ; turn three or four times while cooking. 



94 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

ROAST LAMB OR MUTTON. 

Remove the skin from a leg of lamb or mutton ; sear the cut sur- 
faces on a hot griddle ; place on a rack in a roasting pan in a hot 
oven. A leg of lamb will roast in one hour and a quarter, while it 
requires one hour and three-quarters to roast a medium-sized leg 
of mutton. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Veal being a dry meat, requires basting to keep it moist and to 
enrichen it; rub the veal with sugar, salt and pepper, using one-half 
as much sugar as salt; place upon rack in roasting pan and let cook 
in a hot oven until nicely browned, then baste with a thin gravy 
made from one tablespoon i'ul of butter, one of flour and two cupfuls 
of stock or water; season with pepper and salt; baste every fifteen 
minutes; veal requires longer cooking than either beef or mutton; 
a five-pound roast will cook in two and one-half hours. 

PORK. 

Fresh pork is seasoned with pepper, salt and sugar. Roast and 
baste the same as veal. 



Poultry and Game 



TO DRAW POULTRY. 

All poultry should be dressed as soon as killed; the feathers come 
out more easily while the fowl is warm; strip them off toward the 
head; remove the pin-feathers with a knife; singe the hairs by hold- 
ing it over the gas jet or a piece of lighted paper; cut off the head; 
turn the skin back and cut off the neck close to the body; remove 
the windpipe and crop; to remove the feet, cut the skin just below 
the leg joint ; break the joint; with a skewer pull out the tendons; 
cut away the oil bag in the tail ; make an incision under the side bone 
near the tail large enough to insert two fingers; slip the fingers 
around the entrails; separating the membrane; when everything is 
loosened, get the fingers around the heart and pull out the entrails; 
then take out the lungs and kidneys; when everything is removed 
hold the fowl under the faucet and rinse well, then wipe dry. 

TO CLEAN GIBLETS. 

Remove the outside sack from the heart ; cut open and press out 
the clot of blood ; cut off the gall bladder from the liver, being care- 
ful not to break it. and cut away any discolored part of the liver; 



POULTRY AND GAME 25 

open the thick part of the gizzard and take out the inner sack with- 
out breaking; wash giblets and put into cold water; simmer until 
tender ; cook the neck with the giblets. 

TO TRUSS POULTRY. 

Draw the thighs up close to the body and pass a skewer through 
the thigh and into the body and out through the other thigh; pass 
another skewer through the wings, fastening them close to the 
body ; fold the skin at the neck over and pin it to the back with a 
skewer; cross the legs over the tail and tie with a stout twine, leav- 
ing two long ends ; pass the twine around the tail, bring it up, cross- 
ing in front and passing around -the skewer in the thighs; cross in 
the back and fasten around the skewer through the wings and tie 
firmly. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Singe, draw, wash and wipe; stuff the body and neck with stale 
bread crumbs moistened with melted butter and seasoned with 
pepper, salt and celery salt ; truss and rub with butter ; lay the 
turkey, breast down, on the rack in the roasting pan ; put into a hot 
oven and cook until the back of the turkey is nicely browned, then 
turn it over and brown breast ; pour one pint of water into the pan 
after the turkey is browned ; baste every fifteen minutes, or when- 
ever the skin becomes very dry; allow about twenty-five minutes to 
the pound for roasting ; if the turkey browns too rapidly cover the 
breast with a heavy paper well buttered. Oysters or chopped celery 
may be added to the stuffing if desired. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Prepare the same as roast turkey; allow twenty minutes to the 
pound for roasting. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Many people prefer young ducks served rare ; when so liked, they 
are not stuffed. 

Pick, singe, draw and wash the duck; wipe, truss and dredge with 
salt, pepper and flour; roast in a hot oven about thirty minutes. 
Full-grown domestic ducks should be roasted about one hour and 
basted every ten minutes. Make a giblet gravy and serve with a 
grape or currant jelly. 

Ducks and geese have a strong flavor, and are improved by stuff- 
ing the body with apples or onions or coarse bits of celery, which 
absorb the flavor and should not be eaten. 



26 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Nearly all wild ducks have a strong' or fishy flavor. To lessen 
this flavor put an onion cut in two into the body of the bird, and let 
stand some hours before cooking. 

(Mean the same as poultry and wipe both inside and out with a 
damp towel; tuck back the wings and truss the legs close to the 
body: rub with salt, pepper, butter and flour: place in a baking pan 
and add one cup of boiling water; roast twenty-five to thirty-five 
minutes in a hot oven, basting occasionally with butter; serve very 
hot. with slices of lemon or currant jelly. 



Frying 

Prying is cooking in hot fat deep enough to entirely cover the 
articles to be cooked. When food is properly tried the fat is hot 
enough to instantly sear the outer surface and thus prevent it soak- 
ing into the food. All food to be fried should be thoroughly dried; 
if water should drop into the hot fat it would cause the fat to boil 
over, and there is danger of it taking- fire and causing greal trouble. 
Food that does not contain sufficient albumen to form a coating on 
the outside as soon as immersed into the hot fat should be rolled in 
crumbs, then in egg and again in crumbs to form a grease-proof 
covering. A frying-basket, or a wire basket with a long handle, is 
very convenient for frying purposes. In many cook books we read, 
"heat the fat smoking hot." That depends entirely upon the kind 
of fat yon are using; lard will smoke at a much lower temperature 
than oil. When fat smokes it loses some of its browning properties; 
never let fat heat without putting a small piece of raw potato into 
it. As soon as the potato begins to brown drop in a fresh piece of 
potato; if it browns in one minute the fat is hot enough to fry 
potatoes and dough mixtures. For such food as we roll in bread 
crumbs and egg the fat should be hot enough to brown a bit of bread 
in forty seconds. 

The best fat for frying purposes is a mixture of beef suet and oil. 
as both these fats can be heated to a much higher temperature with- 
out smoking than lard. Olive oil is the purest fat for frying, but is 
too expensive for general use. 

For frying the same fat can be used several times if properly cared 
for. The most delicate croquettes can be fried in the same fat with 
fish and not be marred in flavor. When frying several different 
kinds of food at the same time, begin with potatoes, then dough mix- 
tures and lastly articles rolled in crumbs. 



FRYING 27 

When finished with the fat drop three or four slices of raw potato 
into it ; cool slightly, and strain through a fine strainer or a strainer 
cloth. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes and cnt in strips one-half inch in thickness ; let 
stand in cold water one honr ; heat the fat hot enough to brown a 
thin slice of potato in one minute; wipe the potatoes; put into the 
frying basket and lower into the hot fat ; do not put a large quantity 
of potatoes in at one time, as they will lower the temperature of the 
fat and the potatoes will be soggy and greasy. When the potatoes 
are nicely browned lift from the fat and shake free from grease ; 
turn onto a piece of cheese cloth to absorb the fat ; dust lightly with 
salt, and serve immediately. French fried potatoes should be crisp 
and mealy. If they stand they become soggy. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Pare the potatoes and slice very thin ; let them stand in cold water 
two or three hours ; wipe dry ; fry in fat hot enough to brown in one 
minute ; when nicely browned remove the basket and shake well ; 
turn chips onto cheese cloth or soft paper; dust well with salt. 

LAMB CHOPS BREADED. 

Trim the chops and remove the skin ; season with salt and pepper ; 
roll in fine bread crumbs ; dip in beaten egg* and roll again in bread 
crumbs; fry in hot fat. For a chop one inch in thickness it will re- 
quire six minutes to cook rare and from eight to ten to cook well 
done. 

Note.  One tablespoonful of water added to beaten egg makes a 
more elastic coating for fried food. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken into ten pieces ; season with pepper and salt ; roll 
in fine bread crumbs ; dip in beaten egg ; roll in crumbs, and fry in 
fat hot enough to brown a piece of bread in one minute. A young 
chicken will cook in ten minutes. Serve with sauce tartare or cream 
sauce ; garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

Note.  For fried fish, see article on Fish. 

CROQUETTES. 

In making croquettes the material must be chopped fine, well 
mixed, and seasoned delicately. The shaping of croquettes can 
readily be acquired by a little practice and care. They are formed 
into cone, ball and cylindrical shapes. 



28 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

To Shape.  Take a tablespoonful of the mixture, roll gently be- 
tween the hands into a ball; have a board well sprinkled with fine 
dry bread crumbs and roll the croquette \erv gently on this into 
shape; dip into beaten egg, to which one tablespoonful of water has 
been added; water added to the 1 egg makes a more elastic coating 
than e^'u' alone; after dipping the croquette into the egg roll it again 
in the bread crumbs mid then fry in fat hot enough to brown a piece 
of bread in forty seconds; cook until nicely browned  it will re- 
quire about two minutes; shake free from fat and lay on cheese 
cloth or soft brown paper. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One pint of conked chicken, One teaspoonful of minced parsley, 

chopped tine, Pepper and salt to taste, 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of lemon juice, 

Two tablespoonf uls of flour, One teaspoonful of minced onion. 
One cupful of cream, 

Cook together the butter and Hour: add the cream, and stir con- 
stantly until it thickens; season the chicken with pepper, salt, onion, 
lemon juice and parsley; add to the white sauce and mix thoroughly; 
spread on a buttered plate and set away to cool ; when cold shape 
into croquettes; roll in bread crumbs, dip in egg, and roll again in 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat; drain on cheese cloth, and serve gar- 
nished with lemon points and sprigs of parsley. 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Two sweetbreads, One cup of cream. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One teaspoonful of lemon juice, 

Two tablespoonfuls of (loin-. Pepper and salt to taste. 

Cover the sweetbreads with cold water and salt; let stand two or 
three hours; cover with boiling water; add lemon juice and cook 
until tender; remove the tubes and membranes, and. with a silver 
fork, separate into small pieces; cook together the butter and flour; 
add the cream or rich milk and cook until thickened; add the sweet- 
breads; season to taste; spread on a buttered plate and set aside to 
cool; shape into croquettes; roll in fine bread crumbs; dip in egg 
and roll in crumbs again ; fry in hot fat until nicely browned. 

ROYAL CROQUETTES. 

Royal croquettes are made by using half chicken and half sweet- 
breads. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Six medium-sized potatoes, Whites of two eggs, 

One tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of minced 

Salt and pepper to taste, parsley. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of milk, 



FRYING 2<) 

Pare, boil and mash potatoes; add the butter, milk and seasonings; 
let cool slightly, then shape; roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 



One and one-half cupfuls of 


Half a teaspoonful of salt, 


boiled rice, 


Two eggs, 


Three-fourths of a cupful of 


One tablespoonful of sugar. 


milk, 


One tablespoonful of butter. 



Cover the rice with the milk; add the sugar, butter and salt; let 
boil three minutes ; add the eggs, well beaten, and cook one minute ; 
set aside to cool; when cold, shape, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs; 
fry and serve very hot. 

OTHER CROQUETTES. 

Mutton, veal, lamb, beef or any kind of cooked meat or fish may be 
substituted in place of chicken, and prepared in the same way; or. 
take one cupful of finely chopped meat and add to it one-half cupful 
of stale bread crumbs; moisten with one-third cupful of cream and 
one egg; season with pepper, salt and a little onion juice; drop by 
spoonful into hot fat; fry until nicely browned. 

TIMBALES. 

One-half cupful of flour, One egg, 

One-half cupful of milk, One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Put the ingredients together in a bowl and beat with Dover egg- 
beater until smooth; heat timbal iron in hot fat (the fat should be 
hot enough to brown a piece of potato in one minute) ; dip hot iron 
in batter; return to the fat and cook until nicely browned; drain on 
soft paper. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

One cupful of flour. One saltspoonful of salt, 

Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, One egg, 

One teaspoonful of baking pow- One-third of a cupful of milk, 
der, 

Mix the flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder together; add the 
egg. beaten light, and the milk ; beat until light and smooth ; drop 
by spoonful into very hot fat; sprinkle with sugar, and serve with 
maple syrup or lemon sauce. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare and core two large tart apples; cut into slices about one- 
third of an inch in thickness ; drop into the fritter batter and fry 
about five or six minutes in very hot deep fat ; serve hot with lemon 
sauce. 



30 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

FRUIT FRITTERS. 

Bannas, oranges, pineapple, peaches, etc., arc used for fritters; 
cut into small pieces or slice's and add to the fritter batter; fry in 
deep fat heated very hot. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS 

Cut cold boiled or roast chicken into small pieces; season with salt. 
pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon juice for each pint of chicken; 
make a batter as for "Batter Fritters," omitting the sugar; stir the 
chicken into the batter; drop by spoonful into very hot fat; drain 
and serve immediately; any tender meat may be substituted for 
chicken. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Prepare the fritter batter, omitting the sugar; for large oysters 
drain and dip into the batter, and try in very hot fat ; if the oysters 
are small drain and add one cupful of oysters to one cupful of bat- 
ter; drop by spoonfuls in hot fat and fry until nicely browned; drain 
on cheese cloth or soft paper, and serve hot. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Cut cold mush into slices three-quarters of an inch in thickness; 
roll in cornmeal and flour (equal parts) ; dip in beaten egg, to which 
one tablespoonful of cold water has been added; roll in cornmeal 
and flour and fry in hot fat ; drain on cheese (doth and serve hot. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

One ;iinl one-halt' eupfuls of Dash of cayenne pepper. 

grated cheese, Whites of three eggs. 

One-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 

Bea1 the coos until stiff: add the salt, pepper and grated cheese; 
shape into small balls about the size of a walnut; roll in fine bread 
crumbs, then in beaten coo, ;ni( i again in bread crumbs; fry in hot 
fat. and serve with salad. 

CRULLERS. 

One-fourth of a cupful of butter. Two eggs, 

One cupful of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

Two eupfuls of flour, der, 

One-half level teaspoonful of One cupful of milk, 

nutmeg, Three drops of almond extract. 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar and egg yolks and cream to- 
gether ; add the flour and milk alternately; sift the baking-powder 
and nutmeg with the flour; beat the whites of the eggs stiff and add 



FRYING 31 

to the mixture ; then add the flavoring' ; roll very thin ; cut into shape ; 
fry in deep fat heated very hot; cook until nicely browned; roll in 
powdered sugar and cinnamon . 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful of sugar, Two teaspooufuls of cream tartar, 

One egg, One cupful of sweet milk, 

One-half teaspoonful of ginger, One teaspoonful of soda, 

Grating of nutmeg, One tablespoonful of melted but- 
Enough flour to make a dough, ter. 

Beat the eggs ; add the sugar, and beat together ; mix the cream 
tartar with one cupful of flour and add to the egg and sugar; dis- 
solve the soda in the milk, and add gradually to the egg and sugar; 
add the butter, mix the ginger and nutmeg with the flour and add 
enough to make a soft dough; let stand over night, or several hours, 
before frying; roll a piece of the dough into a sheet half an inch in 
thickness; cut into shape and fry in deep fat; cut all the doughnuts 
before frying, as the frying will require your full attention; the fat 
should be hot enough to brown a piece of potato in one minute. 



Sauteing is cooking food in a small quantity of fat. Butter, when 
clarified, is the most satisfactory for some things, as it browns nicely 
and gives a delicious flavor to the food, but lard or drippings may be 
used. 

CLARIFIED BUTTER. 

To clarify butter, let it boil gently for about a minute  the salt 
will settle to the bottom ; the scum which rises to the top should be 
skimmed off, leaving the oil clear. 

MUSH. 

Cut cold mush into thin slices; cook on a griddle buttered with 
clarified butter until nicely browned. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Cut tart apples in thin slices; dust lightly with flour, and fry in 
clarified butter until nicely browned; serve with liver, breakfast 
bacon or pork chops. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Rub the chops with salt, sugar and pepper ; dredge with flour ; heat 
one tablespoonful of clarified butter or drippings in the spider; 
brown the chops nicely on both sides; add two tablespoonfuls of 



32 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

water; cover the spider closely and let simmer ten minutes; serve on 
a hot platter; add one-fourth of a cupful of sweet milk to the gravy 
in the spider, and serve with the chops. 

PORK CHOPS. 

Season and cook the same as veal cutlets; veal and pork require 
long; and thorough cooking. 

HAMBURG STEAKS. 

One pound of round steak chopped very fine; one tablespoonful of 
minced onion; pepper and salt to taste: mix the meat and seasonings 
thoroughly together; shape into cakes aboul three-fourths of an inch 
in thickness; grease the griddle or spider well ; brown nicely on both 
sides: cook about five minutes, and serve. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

Cut in slices one-half inch in thickness; dust with pepper and sail 
and roll in flour: cook in bacon fat until nicely browned ; serve with 
breakfast bacon or fried apples, or cover the liver with boiling water 
and let stand five minutes; season with pepper and salt : roll in Hour 
and fry in bacon fat or clarified butter. 



Salads 

Salads, to be palatable, should always be crisp and fresh and 
served icy cold. It is upon its crispness and the proper mingling and 
selection of ingredients that its success depends ; when lettuce is to 
be used it must be washed carefully, taking care not to break the 
leaves. The large dark leaves are not nice for salad. Of celery only 
the white crisp parts are used, the green, tough parts being utilized 
for soups and stews. All fresh vegetables to be used for salads 
should stand in ice water until just before serving time. Vegetable 
salads are served after the meat course at dinner  a rich salad, such 
as lobster, chicken, sweetbread, etc., is out of place at a heavy meal. 
These latter are best served at lunches or suppers. In arranging a 
salad on a dish or in a bowl, handle it very gently; do not press it 
into form. The garnishings should be of the freshest and crispest 
kind. 



SALADS :>:; 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs, One level teaspoonful of salt, 

One level teaspoonful of sugar, One pint of olive oil, 

One-half level teaspoonful of dry Juice of one lemon, 

mustard, Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

When making mayonnaise, have utensils and ingredients very 
cold; a Dover egg-beater or a fork may be used; beat the yolks of 
the eggs until very creamy ; add the seasonings and beat again ; then 
add the oil very slowly until the mixture thickens ; when it gets too 
thick to beat add one tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar ; then 
more oil until it again thickens, then more lemon or vinegar, and con- 
tinue until the full amount is used. A cup of whipped cream added 
to the dressing just before using improves the flavor; the whipped 
whites of the eggs added will increase the bulk. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful of sharp vine- One-fourth of a teaspoonful of sail , 

gar, One-half saltspoonful of pepper. 

Three tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 

Mix the vinegar, salt, pepper and oil together and beat with a fork 
until the oil and vinegar unite. This dressing may be made at the 
table, and the salad dressed just before serving. 

COOKED MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Four egg yolks and one whole Six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 

egg, One generous teaspoonful of butter. 

Heat the vinegar scalding hot; beat the eggs until creamy; pour 
the hot vinegar over the beaten eggs; cook over boiling water, stir- 
ring constantly until it thickens, then add the butter; season accord- 
ing to the salad to be served. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful of butter. One cupful of- rieh milk. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, Four tablespoonfuls of vinegar or 

One-half of a cupful of cream, lemon juice. 

Melt the butter; add flour and cook together; add milk and stir 
until thickened; add gradually the vinegar and when cold stir in 
the cream. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Remove the skin and bone from a cold boiled or roast chicken; cut 
into half-inch dice ; to one quart of diced chicken add two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-half 
saltspoonful of pepper ; let stand in a cold place ; cut into half -inch 
dice enough tender white celery to make three eupfuls ; mix the 



34 PEACTICAL COOK BOOK 

chicken and celery together; moisten with mayonnaise dressing; add 
one-half cupful of whipped cream; arrange in salad bowl; garnish 
the dish with crisp bits of celery or white celery leaves. 

Equal parts of chicken and sweetbread, or chicken and veal mixed 
with celery make a nice salad. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Cover the sweetbread with cold water: add one teaspoont'nl of salt 
and stand two or three hours; drain: cover with boiling water: add 
one teaspoont'nl of lemon juice; cook until tender; drain; drop into 
cold water and let stand until cold; remove the membranes and pnll 
apart with a silver fork into small pieces; mix two cupfuls of sweet- 
breads, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one-half teaspoont'nl of salt 
and half a saltspoonful of pepper together; let stand on the ice for 
one hour: cut encumbers into dice enough to make two cupfuls; let 
stand in ice water one hour; mix with sweetbreads and moisten with 
mayonnaise: serve immediately. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the lobster into dice; season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. 
the same as chicken; let stand an hour; separate and wash carefully 
the Leaves from a crisp head of lettuce; let stand in ice water for half 
an hour; at serving time shake (vvr from water; arrange two or 
three leaves together in the form of a nest, and arrange the nests on 
a large dish or individual dishes ; season the mayonnaise to taste wit h 
a mixture of one teaspoont'nl of mustard, one teaspoont'nl of salt and 
a fourth of a teaspoont'nl of mixed pepper; mix one-half the dressing 
with the lobster; put a tablespoonfnl into each shell and a teaspoon- 
ful of dressing on top. 

Another way of serving Lobster salad is to tear the lettuce into 
small pieces and mix with the lobster, using one-third as much 
lettuce as Lobster, garnishing the dish with the whole leaves. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Prepare and serve shrimps the same as lobster; the shrimps may 
be left whole or cut into small pieces. 

Crab salad is also prepared in the same way. 

FISH SALADS. 

All kinds of cold cooked fish can be used for salads. Dress with a 
French or mayonnaise dressing, season to taste, and serve on Lettuce 

leaves. 



SALADS 35 

MEAT SALAD. 

One pint of cold meat cut in thin slices and then cut into small 
pieces; to the French dressing add one tablespoonful of minced pars- 
ley and one teaspoonful of onion juice ; put a layer of meat in the 
salad howl ; pour on some dressing, another layer of meat, and so on 
until all the meat and dressing is used; let stand on the ice two 
hours ; garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Any kind 
of tender meat may be used. 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil four eggs twenty minutes ; put into cold water ; when cold 
remove shells and cut into halves, lengthwise ; remove the yolks, 
taking care not to break the whites ; mash the yolks ; moisten with 
mayonnaise dressing ; add one tablespoonful of finely chopped olives ; 
put the mixture back into the whites, and serve on a bed of lettuce 
leaves. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Cut about an inch off the blossom end of a cucumber; pare and 
cut in very thin slices; let stand in cold water until very crisp; serve 
with a French dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Drop six medium-sized tomatoes into boiling water; let stand two 
or three minutes ; remove the skin ; cut off about one-fourth of each 
tomato: with a sharp knife cut the pulp loose from the sides and 
scoop out the center ; fill each shell with chipped ice and stand in the 
refrigerator for two or three hours ; cut pulp and the upper part of 
the tomato into dice ; add equal parts of finely cut celery ; moisten 
with mayonnaise ; fill the tomato cups with the salad and set on a 
lettuce leaf, or garnish the plate with nasturtium leaves. 

Tomato salad may also be served without the cups. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Six medium-sized potatoes, One teaspoonful of dry mustard. 

Pour tablespoonfuls of cooked Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

mayonnaise, One-fourth of a teaspoonful of 

* me tablespoonful of minced white pepper, 

parsley, Dash of cayenne. 

One tablespoonful of minced Sweet cream. 

onion, 

Pare and cover the potatoes with boiling water ; add oneteaspoonful 
of salt; boil slowly until tender; drain; remove the cover and shake 
over the fire until the potatoes are dry; when cool enough to handle 
cut into thin slices; mix the pepper, salt and mustard together; add 



36 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

to the cooked mayonnaise and mix until smooth, then add onion and 
parsley; slowly add sweet cream enough to make it the consistency 
of thin cream; put a layer of potatoes in the salad bowl ; cover with 
the dressing, then another layer of potatoes and more dressing until 
the bowl is filled ; pour the remainder of the dressing- over the 
potatoes and set in <i cold place for two or three hours; garnish, with 
parsley. 

BEET SALAD. 

Boil beets; remove skins and cut into dice: season with salt and 
pepper; mix with cream dressing; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and 
serve. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Cook three bunches of asparagus in boiling salted water until ten- 
der; when eold cut off the tender parts; mix with a cream dressing. 
seasoned. with pepper and salt, or serve six stalks with one teaspoon- 
ful of mayonnaise to each person. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One small head of cabbage, One-half of a fceaspoonful of salt, 

One-half of a cupful of cooked One-half of a saltspoonful of pepper, 

mayonnaise dressing, One-half of a cupful of sweei cream. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Divide the cabbage in four parts; wash well in cold water; take off 
all the wilted leaves and cut out the tough parts from the center; 
shred the cabbage very tine with a sharp knife and throw into cold 
water until crisp; mix the salt, sugar and pepper together and then 
mix into the dressing; add the cream gradually; shake off all the 
water from the cabbage; mix with the dressing and serve. Hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped fine, may he added to the salad if desired. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Break off all the leaves carefully from a head of lettuce; wash and 
throw into ice water for one or two hours; then shake off all the 
water; dress with French dressing, and serve. Tf the leaves are very 
large, tear into pieces. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Wash and cut the celery into strips; let stand in ice water for half 
an hour; cut into pieces about an inch long and dress with mayon- 
naise dressing, seasoned to taste with pepper and salt and mustard ; 
arrange in the salad howl and irarnish with choice hits of celerv. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 37 

APPLE SALAD. 

Three tart apples, Six tablespooiifuls of whipped 
One-half pound of English wal- cream, 

nuts, One tablespoonful of sugar. 

One tablespoonful of cooked One-half saltspoonful of salt. 

mayonnaise dressing, 

Pare, core, quarter and slice very thin the apples ; break the wal- 
nuts into small pieces; add the sugar, salt and cream to the dressing ; 
mix the apples and nuts and add the dressing ; serve immediately. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Six bananas, Juice of two large lemons, 

One cupful of sugar, One-fourth cupful of water. 

Cook the sugar and water together for five minutes ; when cold add 
the lemon juice ; slice six bananas very thin into the salad bowl ; 
pour over them the syrup and let stand one or two hours before serv- 
ing. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One-half dozen oranges. One-half pound of white grapes. 

Three bananas, 

Skin and seed the grapes ; take pulp of the oranges, removing the 
seeds and membrane; peel and slice the bananas very thin ; mix fruit 
together : moisten with mayonnaise, and serve. 



Meat and Fish Sauces 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Cook together one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour; add 
one cupful of rich milk; stir until smooth; season with pepper and 
salt. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Cook one tablespoonful of butter until it browns ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and cook together until a dark brown; add one 
cupful of soup stock and stir until it thickens ; season with pepper 
and salt. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Two tablespooiifuls of butter, your tablespoonfuls of horseradish. 

One tablespoonful of flour. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 

Two cupfuls of stock, Juice of one lemon, 

Pepper and salt to taste, One tablespoonful of sugar. 



38 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

Cook the butter and flour together ; add the stock and stir until it 
boils ; add the horseradish, sugar, pepper and salt ; let it boil for one 
minute ; remove from the fire and add lemon juice and parsley. This 
is a nice sauce for roast veal. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Four tablespoonf'uls of butter. One can of mushrooms, 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour. Pepper mid salt. 

Two cupfuls of stock. 

Cook the butter and flour together until a dark brown; add the 
stock and stir until it boils, then add the liquor from the mushrooms 
and let the mushrooms simmer five minutes; season and serve. This 
is to be served with roast or braised beef. 

BEURRE NOIR. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, One tablespoonful of minced parsley, 

One tablespoonful of vinegar, One teaspoonf ul of lemon juice, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, One. jiiarter teaspoonful of pepper. 

Cook the butter in a saucepan until it boils; add the parsley and 
then the other ingredients and boil up once. This sauce is to be 
poured over fried or boiled fish before sending to the tabic 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One tablespoonful of flour, 

One cupful of stewed and One tablespoonful minced onion, 

strained tomatoes, Salt and pepper. 

Fry the onion in the butter until a light brown; add the flour and 
cook together, then the tomatoes, and stir until thickened; season 
with pepper and salt. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

One-half cupful of butter, Juice of half a lemon. 

Yolk of two eggs, Few grains of cayenne. 

One-half cupful of boiling water. 

Cream the butter: add the eggs and cream together; add season- 
ings, and then the boiling water; cook in double boiler until creamy, 
then add lemon juice. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Two cupfuls of boiling water. Two tablespoonfuls of flour, 

One-half cupful of butter, One tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Dash of cayenne, 

Cream the butter, add the flour and beat together ; add gradually 
the boiling water, stirring constantly ; let come to a boil ; add lemon 
juice and pepper, and serve. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 39 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, One cupful of white stock  

One tablespoonful of flour, chicken or veal, 

One cupful of rich milk or cream, One-half of small onion. 

Put the onion sliced into the milk and heat in double boiler; cook 
the butter and flour tog-ether; add the stock, stirring it until it 
thickens ; remove the onion and add the milk ; season with salt and 
pepper. 

A richer sauce is made by beating- the yolks of two eggs and pour- 
ing the hot sauce into them just before serving. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One-third of a cupful of butter. Juice of half a lemon, 

One tablespoonful of flour, Pepper and salt and a dash of 

One pint of oysters, cayenne. 

( Jream the butter ; add the flour and beat together ; cook the 
oysters in their own liquor until they boil; skim out the oysters and 
add enough water to the liquor to make one pint ; add to the butter 
and flour and cook until it thickens, then add the oysters and season- 



TARTAR SAUCE (HOT). 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of Worcester- 
One tablespoonful of vinegar, shire sauce. 
One teaspoonful of lemon juice. One-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 

Brown the butter; heat the vinegar. Worcestershire sauce, lemon 
juice and salt; add to the browned butter, and serve hot with broiled 

flsh. 



SAUCE TARTARE. 

To one pint of mayonnaise dressing add one teaspoonful eaeb of 
chopped pickles, capers, olives, parsley and onion juice ; season with 
one-half teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, one fourth 
of a saltspoonful of pepper and a dash of cayenne ; serve with fried 
or broiled flsh or flsh balls. 



CHAMPAGNE SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, One tablespoonful of flour, 

One cupful of rich stock, One-half cupful of champagne or 

Pepper and salt, white wine. 

Cook the butter and flour together until a dark brown; add the 
stock and stir until smooth ; season with salt and pepper ; remove 
from the fire, and add the champagne or wine. 



40 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

MAITRE D' HOTEL SAUCE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, One tablespoonful of lemon juice, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt. One tablespoonful of minced pars- 
One-half saltspoonful of white ley. 

pepper, 

Cream the butter ; add the salt, pepper, parsley and, lastly, gradu- 
ally add the lemon juice. 

MINT SAUCE (For Lamb). 

One cupful of chopped mint, One-half cupful of vinegar. 

Three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Use only leaves and lender- sprigs of fresh mini ; chop, mix ingre- 
dients and let stand an hoar before serving. 



Vegetables 



AH green vegetables must be cooked in freshly boiled salted water; 
allow one teaspoonful of salt for each quart of water. The younger 
the vegetable the more quickly it will cook. 

POTATOES. 

Nearly every housekeeper fancies she can cook a potato, and yet 
we have so many soggy and poor-flavored potatoes brought to our 
tables. The potato is composed chiefly of starch and water. When 
subjected to heat the starch cells burst and the potato becomes ten- 
der. If removed from the water or oven as soon as the starch is set 
free the potato will be mealy and dry, but if allowed to cook longer 
the starch will absorb the moisture and the potato be soggy. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

If cooking new potatoes, boil them in their jackets; old potatoes, 
scrub, pare and let stand in cold water two or three hours to freshen 
them; cover with boiling water, to which a teaspoonful of salt has 
been added, and boil gently from twenty to thirty minutes ; medium- 
sized potatoes will require thirty minutes; rapid boiling will break 
the potatoes; when cooked drain off every drop of water; remove 
the cover and shake the saucepan over the fire until the potatoes 
are dry and mealy; serve immediately. The potatoes should be put 
on to boil just one-half hour before they are to be served. If they 
must stand, set the saucepan on the back part of the stove and cover 
with a towel until serving time. The towel will absorb the moisture. 



VEGETABLES 41 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil six medium-sized potatoes; drain and shake over the fire; 
mash fine ; add one teaspoonful of salt and one level tablespoonful of 
butter and beat well; heat a quarter of a cupful of milk; pour the 
hot milk over the potatoes and beat until light and creamy ; pile on 
a hot dish; do not smooth the mound, but leave it irregular; serve 
immediately. 

RICED POTATOES. 

Prepare the potatoes as for mashed potatoes; press through a 
potato-ricer into a hot dish ; put the dish in the oven for five minutes. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of uniform size; scrub and remove any imperfec- 
tions in the skin ; wipe dry and put into a hot oven ; bake about forty- 
five minutes, or until the potato feels soft when pressed between the 
fingers; when baked cut a slit lengthwise in the potato and press 
the potato gently ; remove immediately from the oven ; cover with a 
towel until serving time ; send baked potatoes to the table covered 
with a doily to protect them from the cold air. 

BAKED POTATOES WITH ROAST BEEF. 

Pare small potatoes and put into the pan with the roast beef about 
half an hour before the meat is cooked ; arrange on the dish with the 
beef. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut into six pieces on the length of the potato ; let stand 
in cold water two or three hours ; wipe, and fry in very hot fat ; 
drain; dust with salt and serve with steaks or chops. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Pare eight or ten large potatoes ; with a vegetable scoop cut little 
balls from the potato ; drop them into cold water and let stand two 
or three hours ; wipe and put in the frying basket ; lower gently into 
very hot fat ; cook until nicely browned  about five minutes ; drain ; 
dredge with salt and serve very hot. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

One quart of cold boiled potatoes cut in half-inch dice ; one pint of 
thin white sauce ; one tablespoonful of minced parsley ; pepper and 
salt ; season the potatoes with pepper and salt ; add to the white 
sauce and cook slowly until the potatoes are hot ; add the parsley and 
stir carefully ; serve immediately. 



42 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

One quart of cold boiled pota- Two tablespoonfuls minced onion, 

toes, cut into dice, One tablespdonful minced parsley. 

Three tablespoonfuls of clarified Salt and pepper. 
butter, 

Season the potatoes with salt and pepper; brown the onion lightly 
in the clarified butter; add the potatoes and the parsley, cooking 
until nicely browned, being careful not to break them ; serve im- 
mediately on a hot dish. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and cover with boiling salted water; boil gently until tender, 
or parboil the potatoes: pare and cut in halves; dust lightly with 
sugar, salt and pepper; put two tablespoonfuls <>f clarified butter 
into a small dripping pan: lay the potatoes on the pan and bake in 
a hot oven. 

BOILED RICE. 

Pick over and wash one cupful of rice; drop gradually into two 
quarts of rapidly boiling salted water, and boil rapidly until the rice 
is soft; drain in a sieve; hold the sieve under the faucet and let the 
cold water run through it: shake well; turn out on a shallow pan 
and set in a moderate oven to i\ry : stir occasionally. 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Two quarts of boiling water; two teaspoonfuls of salt ; six sticks of 
macaroni; break the macaroni into inch pieces; wash and drop into 
the salted water; boil rapidly for thirty minutes; drain: hold colan- 
der under faucet and let the cold water run over the macaroni; 
shake well and drain. 

MACARONI AND CREAM SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce; season the boiled macaroni with pepper and 
salt; mix with the white sauce and simmer for five minutes. 

MACARONI AND TOMATO SAUCE. 

Cook the macaroni as directed; add to one pint of tomato sauce, 
and simmer five minutes. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

One pint of white sauce. One cupful of grated cheese, 

Six sticks of macaroni. One-half cupful of bread crumbs, 

One tablespoonful of butter. Pepper and salt. 

Boil the macaroni: butter the baking dish: make the white sauce 
and add the grated cheese to the sauce: put the macaroni in the bak- 



VEGETABLES 43 

ing dish; pour over it the sauce; moisten the crumbs with melted 
butter ; spread on top of macaroni and bake in moderate oven until 
crumbs are brown. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak one quart of pea beans in cold water over night ; put into 
fresh cold water and simmer until soft enough to pierce with a pin ; 
do not boil them long enough to break; if desired, a small onion may 
be boiled with the beans ; when they are soft, drain and pour cold 
water over them ; when well drained, put in the bean-pot. 

Pour boiling water over one-fourth pound of salt pork that is part 
fat and part lean ; scrape the rind until white ; bury the pork in the 
beans, leaving only the rind exposed. Mix together one teaspoonful 
of dry mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, and one-fourth cupful of 
molasses. Place these in a cup and fill with hot water; stir until 
well mixed and pour the liquid over the beans and pork ; add enough 
water to cover the beans and bake eight hours ; add water to keep 
them covered until the last hour, when the pork should be raised to 
the surface to crisp. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel ; cover with boiling salted water ; cook slowly for ten minutes ; 
drain off the water and add more ; cook for half an hour, or until 
tender; drain and cover with milk and simmer gently for ten min- 
utes ; season with pepper, salt and butter, and serve. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Beets retain their delicate, sugary flavor if baked instead of boiled. 
Turn them frequently while in the oven, but do not pierce the skin 
or the juice will run out. When done remove the skins ; cut in cubes, 
and serve hot, with butter, salt and pepper. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash carefully, but do not break the skin; cover with boiling 
water and boil slowly until tender. If young, they will cook in one 
hour ; old beets require longer time. When cooked put in cold water 
and rub off the skin. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

One quart can of tomatoes, One saltspoonful of pepper, . 

One teaspoonful of salt, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

Four slices of stale bread, One cupful of bread crumbs. 
One tablespoonful of butter, 

Butter the baking dish ; cut the bread into small squares ; season 
the tomatoes with pepper and salt; put a layer of bread in the 



44 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

bottom of baking dish; pour over it some of the tomatoes, another 
layer of bread and more tomatoes, until the material is used; moisten 
the bread crumbs with molted butter; spread over the top; bake in 
moderate oven twenty minutes, or until the crumbs are nicely 
browned. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Pare the squash, cutting away little but the outer rind; cut it in 
quarters if small, if large divide into small pieces; if the seeds are 
young and small do not remove them; lay the squash on a plate and 
put in in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water and steam until 
tender, about thirty or forty minutes: take it from the steamer and 
drain off any water; place in a stewpan and mash well; add butter, 
salt and pepper to taste; set stewpan on back of the range, un- 
covered, for about fifteen minutes, for the squash to dry; stir 
occasionally; reheat and serve. This squash may be boiled instead of 
steamed, but it is more wol when boiled. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Pick off the outside leaves; soak in cold water for about an hour; 
cook in boiling salted water until tender; drain: cover with cream 
sauce, and serve. 

CABBAGE. 

Remove the outside leaves; cut into quarters and remove the 
tough portion; cook in boiling salted water; drain; chop fine; season 
with pepper, salt and butter. 

SPINACH. 

Pick over and wash thoroughly; put into a kettle with just enough 
water to keep it from burning; boil until tender; drain and chop 
fine; season with pepper, salt and butter; garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Scrape the parsnips and boil gently until tender, usually an hour; 
drain, and when cold cut them into long thin slices about one-third 
inch in thickness; season each slice with salt and pepper; dip in 
melted butter and flour and fry in hot fat until both sides are thor- 
oughly browned; drain well, and serve. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash thoroughly; scrape off the outer skin; tie into bundles; 
cover with boiling, slightlv salted water, and boil for fifteen 



BREAD 45 

minutes, or until the asparagus is tender; drain; season with pepper, 
salt and butter, or pour a white sauce over it and serve on toast. 
Asparagus may be served cold with a mayonnaise dressing-. The 
water in which the asparagus is boiled can be used for soup. 

BEANS. 

Remove the strings; cut into inch pieces; wash and cook in boiling- 
salted water for two or three hours, or until the beans are tender; 
drain; season with butter, pepper and salt; when very young they 
will cook in much shorter time. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Wash the pods before shelling; shell the peas; cover the fresh 
green pods with boiling water ; cook ten minutes ; skim out the pods 
and put in the peas ; boil until tender ; the fresh pods are sweet and 
very highly flavored; let the water boil nearly away; season with 
butter, pepper and salt ; a little sugar and sweet cream may be added. 

GREEN CORN. 

Remove husk and silk; put into cold water and let come to boil- 
ing; boil one minute and serve. 



Bread 

VIENNA BREAD. 

Flour, One compressed yeast cake. 

One pint of wetting (half milk One teaspoonful of salt, 
and water), 

Dissolve the yeast in half a cupful of cold water ; add the salt to 
the wetting, which should be lukewarm, or at a temperature of about 
eighty degrees, then add the yeast; stir in flour enough to make a 
stiff batter; beat thoroughly; add enough more flour .to make a soft 
dough ; turn out on a well-floured bread board and knead until soft 
and velvety; when it will not stick to the hands or board there is 
sufficient flour ; put into a buttered bowl ; brush the top with melted 
butter or drippings ; cover with a towel and let rise for three hours, 
or until it is double its bulk; the dough should be kept at a tempera- 
ture of seventy-five degrees; when the dough is light, shape into 
loaves or rolls and put in the pans; butter the top and allow it to 
stand one hour, or until it is light ; bake in a hot oven ; the oven for 
baking bread should be hot enough to brown n small quantity of 



46 PKACTICAL COOK BOOK 

flour in two minutes ;. bake until nicely browned all over ; it requires 
from forty-five minutes to one hour to bake a loaf of bread. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take a small piece of bread dough about four inches square; shape 
it into a ball ; roll under the palms of the hands upon the bread 
board into a long roll about one inch in diameter; lay in a 
buttered roll pan ; butter the top lightly ; cover with a towel and 
let rise one hour, or until double its bulk ; bake in a hot oven twenty 
minutes, or until nicely browned ; cool the bread and rolls where 
;i draught of fresh air will pass around them. 

SOUP STICKS. 

Take a small bit of Vienna bread dough about one inch and a half 
square; roll into a long stick: lay in buttered soup-stick pans, or 
about halt' an inch apart in a tint pan; butter the top lightly; bake 
immediately in a hot oven until nicely browned; serve with soup. 

MILK BREAD. 

One quart of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of salt, 

One compressed yeast cake Flour enough to make a soft dough. 

Dissolve the yeast in one-half cupful of cold water, heat the milk 
to about eighty degrees ; add the sail and dissolved yeast ; mix in flour 
enough to make a soft dough ; beal well ; turn out on bread board and 
knead until soft and velvety ; put into a buttered bowl ; brush the top 
with melted fat; cover and let rise for live hours, or until double its 
bulk; shape into loaves; butter the top and let rise one hour; bake. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Take a piece of lightened milk-bread dough; roll into a sheet about 
one-half inch in thickness ; let the dough shrink ; cut the rolls with a 
large cutter; pull into an oval shape; spread with softened butter 
and fold over, ha vino- the edges come together: brush the top with 
butter and let rise one hour, or until light; bake. 

TWIN ROLLS. 

Cut the rolls from a sheet of dough a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness ; put two rolls together, spreading softened butter between ; let 
rise for one hour and bake. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One pint milk and water (equal One tablespoonful of sugar, 

parts), One teaspoonful of salt. 

One compressed yeast cake, 



BREAD 47 

Dissolve the yeast in one-half cupful of cold water; have the wet- 
ting lukewarm and add to it the yeast, sugar and salt ; mix in enough 
graham flour, sifted, to make a soft dough ; flour the board well with 
white flour; turn out the dough and knead until it ceases to stick to 
the board ; let rise for three hours, then shape into loaves ; let rise 
one hour, or until it is light; then bake. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Make the same as graham bread, using half whole-wheat flour and 
half white flour. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cupfuls of cornmeal, One teaspoonful of salt. 

Two cupfuls of graham flour, Two teaspoonfuls of soda. 

One cupful of molasses, Three cupfuls of buttermilk. 

Mix the cornmeal, graham flour, salt and soda together; add the 
molasses and the buttermilk gradually ; fill mould two-thirds full ; 
steam in single mould six hours  in small moulds, two or three hours. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

One and one-half yeast cakes. One teaspoonful of salt. 

Three eggs. One pint of milk, 

Three tablespoonfuls of sugar, Three tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cover the yeast with cold water ; beat the eggs until light ; heat the 
milk scalding hot; pour the hot milk over the beaten egg; add the 
sugar and salt and allow it to stand until cool (about 80 degrees) ; 
add the yeast, and flour enough to make a soft dough ; turn out on a 
well-floured bread board and knead until smooth ; put into a buttered 
bowl ; cover and let rise three hours, or until light ; soften the butter 
and mix it thoroughly into the dough; allow it to rise again for two 
hours; roll into a sheet one inch in thickness and put into a buttered 
pan; spread with melted butter; dredge with sugar and cinnamon 
and let rise one hour; bake in a moderate oven thirty-five minutes. 

BUNS. 

Take a piece of coffee-cake dough; shape into round buns; place 
half an inch apart on a buttered pan; brush the top with melted 
butter; let rise one hour and bake in a moderate oven. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Roll a piece of coffee-cake dough in a sheet one-fourth inch in 
thickness; cut into strips; brush with melted butter; dust with sugar 
and cinnamon; roll into shape; place one inch apart on a buttered 
pan and let rise one hour; bake in a moderately hot oven. 



48 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

JENNY LIND. 

Take a large piece of coffee-cake dough and mix with it half a 
cupful of currants or stoned raisins ; roll into a sheet half an inch in 
thickness; cut in circular shape; brush the top with melted butter; 
fold over, having the edges meet ; raise one hour ; bake in a moderate 
oven from thirty to forty-five minutes. 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour. Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 

Two teaspoonfuls of baking Sweet milk enough to make a soft 

powder, dough. 

One teaspoonful of salt, * 

Sift the flour before it is measured ; add salt and baking-powder to 
flour and sift together ; rub the butter into the flour with the fingers ; 
add the milk and mix to a smooth dough; turn out upon the bread 
board ; dust with flour and roll into a sheet three-quarters of an inch 
in thickness; cut into small biscuit; butter the biscuit pan and dust 
lightly with flour; lay the biscuit dose together and bake in a hot 
oven ten minutes. 



QUICK SWEDISH ROLLS. 

Roll a piece of baking-powder biscuit dough into a sheet one-half 
inch in thickness; spread with softened butter; dust with cinnamon 
and sugar ; roll like a jelly roll ; with a sharp knife cut off bits from 
the end about one-half inch ; lay the flat side on a well-buttered pan ; 
bake in a hot oven ten minutes. These make a very good substitute 
for cinnamon rolls ; to be served hot. 

SHORTCAKE. 

One pint of flour. One egg. 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, Two tablespoonfuls of butter. 

One teaspoonful of baking pow- One-half cupful of milk. 
der, 

Sift the flour, salt and baking-powder together; rub the butter into 
the flour ; beat the egg until light ; add the milk ; beat, do not knead, 
the dough ; turn out on a well-floured board ; roll into sheets one-half 
inch in thickness; butter and flour the baking pan; lay a sheet of 
the cake in the pan; brush the top with melted butter; put on a 
second sheet; bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty minutes; 
when baked separate the sheets ; put a layer of fruit, sprinkled with 
powdered sugar, between, another layer of fruit on top and cover 
with whipped cream; strawberries, raspberries, pineapples, oranges, 
or any kind of fruit desired may be used. 



BREAD 49 

MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls of flour, One tablespoonf ul of melted butter. 

One teaspoonful of baking Two eggs, 

powder, One-half saltspoonful of salt. 

One cupful of milk, 

Sift the flour, baking-powder and salt together ; separate the eggs ; 
add the yolks and then the milk gradually to the flour; beat to a 
smooth batter; add the melted butter; beat the whites of the eggs 
stiff and add last; bake in gem pans in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

SALLY LUNNS. 

Two cupfuls of flour, One-half cupful of milk, 

One and one-half teaspoonfuls Two eggs, 

of baking powder, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, One-third cupful of butter. 

Sift the flour, salt, sugar and baking-powder together ; separate the 
eggs and beat separately; add the yolks and milk to the flour and 
beat thoroughly, then the melted butter and lastly the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff; bake in gem pans in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 

RAISED MUFFINS. 

One egg, Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

One cupful of milk, One-half yeast cake, 

Two cupfuls of flour, One tablespoonf ul of melted butter. 
One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

Cover the yeast cake with cold water and let it dissolve ; heat the 
milk scalding hot ; beat the egg, salt and sugar together ; pour the hot 
milk over the beaten egg ; let it stand until lukewarm, then add the 
yeast and flour; beat to a smooth batter; let rise for four or five 
hours ; fill muffin pans two-thirds full ; let rise from twenty to thirty 
minutes; bake in a hot oven. If muffins raise over night use half the 
quantity of yeast. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One and one-half cupfuls of One tablespoonf ul of melted butter, 

graham flour, sifted, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

One cupful of milk, One egg, 

One tablespoonful of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Mix the flour, salt and baking-powder together ; beat the egg ; add 
the sugar and beat together, then the milk; mix the flour into the 
egg and milk and beat to a smooth batter; add the melted butter; 
bake in buttered gem pans in a hot oven. 

POPOVERS. 

One cupful of flour, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

Two eggs, One cujjful of milk. 



50 PE ACTIO AL COOK BOOK 

Beat the eggs very Light; add the milk and Hour alternately until 
all is used ; heat buttered iron gem pans hissing hot ; half fill with the 
mixture; bake in a hot oven thirty-five or forty minutes. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two eggs, One-half teaspoonfu] of salt 

One and one-half eupfuls of milk. One-half cupful of flour. 

One cupful of corn meal. One and one-half tablespoonfuls 
Two teaspoonfuls baking powder, of melted butter. 

Separate the eggs and beat the yolks unlil creamy; sift the flour 
meal, salt and baking-powder together; add the beaten yolks and 
part of the milk and stir to a smooth batter; add the remainder of the 
milk and the melted butter; lastly add the whipped whites of the 
eggs; bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 

CORN CAKE. 

One cupful of meal. One and one f ourth-cupf uls of milk 

One-half cupful of flour. One tables] nful of melted butter 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Two teaspoonfuls of baking Yolks f two eggs, 

powder. Whit.' of on.- egg.' 

Sift the Hour. meal. salt, sugar and baking-powder together; beat 
the yolks of the eggs; add to the mixture; add the milk, and Lastly 
the whipped white of the ego; bake in a brick loaf pan half an hour 
in a moderate oven. 



One cupful of flour. One half teaspoonful of salt 

One cupful of buttermilk. One-half teaspoonful of soda 

One egg. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One cupful of flo 
One cupful of bu 
One egg. 

Mix the flour, salt and soda together; separate the coo; a( lJ the 
yolk to the flour and gradually add the buttermilk ; beat The white of 
the egg stiff; add to the batter; if sour milk is used instead of butter- 
milk, add one tablespoonful of melted butter; have the griddle hot  
grease it with a piece of fat pork. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Two eupfuls of flour. Two eggs 

Cup and a half of milk. One-half teaspoonfu] of salt 

One tablespoonful of melted Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
butter, s ' 

Sift the flour, baking-powder and salt together; separate the eggs; 
add the yolks unbeaten to the flour and the milk gradually ; beat to a 
smooth batter; beat the whites of the eggs stiff; add 'the melted 
butter to the batter, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs; cook on 
a hot griddle. 



EGGS 5j 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One-half cupful of fine corn meal, One-half teaspoonful of salt. 
One pint of boiling water, One cupful of buckwheat flour. 

Pour the boiling water on the cornmeal ; add the salt and mix 
well ; when lukewarm add half a cupful of white flour ; one cupful 
of buckwheat flour, and one-fourth cupful of yeast, or one-fourth 
compressed yeast cake dissolved in cold water ; let rise over night ; in 
the morning stir down and beat vigorously ; when risen and ready to 
bake add one-fourth level teaspoonful of soda sifted through a fine 
strainer; beat again and fry on hot griddle. 

WAFFLES. 

Two cupfuls of flour, Cup and one-fourth of milk, 

One teaspoonful of baking Three eggs, 

powder. One tablespoonful of melted butter. 
One teaspoonful of salt, 

Mix the flour, salt and baking-powder together ; separate the eggs 
and add the yolks to the flour ; add the milk gradually and beat to a 
smooth batter ; add the melted butter and lastly the whites of the 
eggs, beaten stiff ; heat the waffle iron hissing hot ; butter with 
clarified butter or drippings ; fill the waffle iron two-thirds full ; 
close the iron and cook one minute, then turn and cook two or three 
minutes on the other side ; serve with maple syrup or caramel syrup. 

CARAMEL SYRUP. 

Cook one cupful of sugar and one-fourth cupful of water over a 
hot fire, without stirring, until it begins to brown ; then stir until of 
a rich golden brown ; add one-half cupful of water and stir over the 
fire until smooth : serve with waffles. 



Eggs 

SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

Put two eggs in a pint sauce pan ; cover with boiling water ; cover 
and let stand eight minutes. This method will cook both white and 
yolk. If you are cooking a large number of eggs, cover with boiling 
water and let stand three minutes; pour off and add more boiling 
water ; let stand five minutes longer. 

GENERAL RULE FOR BOILING EGGS. 

For very soft boiled eggs, cook in boiling water three minutes ; soft 
boiled, three and one-half minutes ; medium soft, four minutes ; hard 
boiled, twenty minutes. 



52 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

HARD BOILED EGGS. 

Cover the eggs with boiling water and boil twenty minutes. Cook- 
ing eggs ten minutes makes the yolks leathery and indigestible; 
cooking twenty minutes makes them light and mealy. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Butter a sauce plate; separate two eggs, taking care not to break 
the yolks; beat the whites stiff; pile up irregularly upon the sauce 
plate; make two nests in the whites; slip in the 1 yolks; bake in cool 
oven until the white is lightly browned ; season with pepper, salt and 
a bit of butter, and serve. 

SHIRRED EGGS NO. 2. 

Butter individual plates; break carefully two eggs into each; sea- 
son with pepper, salt and bits of butter; bake in a moderate oven 
until the white is set. 

POACHED EGGS. 

To one quart of water add one teaspoonful of salt and boil 
slowly; break the eggs carefully and slip into the water; dip the 
water over the eggs; loosen carefully from the bottom of the pan ; 
when the white is set lift on a skimmer; trim the edges and slip onto 
toast. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Four eggs, One-halt" teaspoonful of salt. 

One tablespoonful of butter, 

Break the eggs with a fork; add the salt; melt the butter in 
omelet pan; pour in the beaten eggs: stir for two minutes over a 
hot fire, and serve. 

FRENCH OMELET. 

Five eggs, Five tablespoonfuls <>t' water, 

<>tic tablespoonful of clarified Pepper and salt, 
butter. 

Break the eggs with a fork; add the water and beat together; 
have omelet pan perfectly smooth; put the clarified butter in the 
pan; when it begins to sizzle pour in the omelet and shake vigorously 
over the fire until the omelet thickens on the bottom ; with a fork 
lift the cooked egg and let the uncooked run under: season with 
pepper and salt ; loosen from the sides of the pan Avith a flexible 
knife and slip the knife under the omelet; fold and turn onto a hot 
dish; serve immediately. Orated cheese, chopped ham. chicken or 
parsley may be sprinkled on before folding the omelet. 



PASTRY AND PIES 53 

LIGHT OMELET. 

Pour eggs, Half a teaspoonful of salt, 

Four tablespoonfuls of milk, One teaspoonful of clarified butter. 

Separate the eggs ; beat the yolks and milk together ; add the salt ; 
beat the whites stiff and add to the mixture ; melt the butter in an 
omelet pan; turn in the egg mixture and cook until nicely browned 
underneath; set in a cool oven until the egg is firm; loosen from 
the pan; fold and serve immediately. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 

Boil four eggs twenty minutes; let stand in cold water ten min- 
utes ; separate the yolks and whites ; chop the whites very fine ; cook 
together one tablespoonful of butter; one scant tablespoonful of 
flour ; one-half teaspoonful of salt ; half a saltspoonful of white 
pepper ; add one cupful of rich milk and stir constantly until it 
thickens; add the chopped whites of the eggs; toast six slices of 
bread ; pour the hot cream sauce over the toast ; rub the yolks 
through a fine strainer over the whole ; garnish with parsley. This 
makes an attractive luncheon dish. 



Pastry and Pics 



FLAKY PASTRY. 

One cupful of flour, One-third cupful of shortening, 

One saltspoonful of salt, One-fourth cupful of ice water. 

Have all the material cold; put the flour and salt into a chopping 
bowl; add the shortening (half butter and half lard) and chop into 
pieces the size of a pea ; moisten the pastry with ice water, mixing 
lightly with a fork ; turn out on a floured board ; draw together into 
oblong shape; roll back and forth into an oblong sheet; fold into 
thirds ; turn half way around and roll back and forth ; fold again and 
turn half way around and roll out for a third time ; brush off all the 
surplus flour; roll like a jelly roll; wrap in a napkin and set on ice ; 
it can be used immediately, or stand on ice until the next day. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One cupful of ice water, . One teaspoonful of salt, 

One pound of flour. White of one egg. 

One pound of butter, 

Have material and utensils cold ; wash the butter in cold water and 
knead with a spoon until it becomes waxy; shape into an oblong 
sheet about an inch in thickness and set it in a pan of ice water; mix 



54 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

the salt and flour together; rub one-third of the butter into the flour ; 
moisten with the egg and ice water; mix with a knife; stir vigor- 
ously; dredge the board lightly with the flour; turn out the paste; 
sprinkle lightly with flour ; roll backward and forward ; turn the 
paste half way around and roll from you; when about one-fourth of 
an inch in thickness wipe the remainder of the butter and lay it on 
the paste ; sprinkle lightly with flour ; fold the paste from each side 
until the edges meet, then fold from the ends; pound lightly and 
roll back and forth two or three times; double the paste and roll 
down to one-half inch in thickness; fold in thirds and turn half 
way around; roll down again; repeat this for six times; place on 
ice to harden for one or two hours before using; if the paste sticks, 
place it on ice; when chilled it will roll more easily; use as little 
flour as possible. 

MINCE PIE. 

Lean beef, four pounds, Pour pounds of currants, 

Two pounds of suet. Half a pound of citron, 

Pour quarts of chopped apples, .Juice of six lemons, 

Five pounds of sugar, One pint of molasses, 

Pour pounds of raisins. Three quinces, 

Three quarts of sweet cider. One 1 pint of brandy, 

Cloves, cinnamon, mace, and Three ounces each of candied 
nutmeg three tablespoon orange and lemon peel, 

fuls of each, One pint of white wine, 

Two cupfuls of meat broth. Two tablespoonf ids of salt. 

Cook and mince the meat tine; chop the suet tine; cook the quinces 
in the cider until soft; chop the citron, lemon and orange peel; mix 
all the ingredients and cook slowly until the apples are soft; add the 
brandy and wine last ; pack away in jars covered tightly; take half 
the flaky pastry ; roll into a sheet one-fourth inch in thickness; cover 
the pie-pan, putting the pastry on quite full; All with mince meat, 
having it about half an inch thick; roll out the other half of the 
pastry about one-eighth inch in thickness; fold over and cut two or 
three 1 slits; cover the pie and bake in a moderate oven. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind of one lemon. Three-quarters of a cupful of boiling 
Two level tablespoonfuls of corn water, 

starch. Yolks of two e^'s. 

Three-quarters of a cupful of One teaspoonful of butter, 

sugar. Juice of one lemon. 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar together and add to the boiling- 
water, stirring until it thickens ; add the grated rind of the lemon 
and cook for ten minutes; beat the yolks of the eggs until creamy; 
add slowly to the cornstarch ; cooking two minutes longer ; remove 
from the fire and add the lemon juice and butter; line a pie-pan 



PASTRY AND PIES 55 

with flaky pastry and a rim; cover with soft paper; fill with pieces 
of stale bread and bake in a moderate oven ; when baked remove the 
paper and bread and fill with the mixture; beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff; add two tablespoonfnls of sugar and beat together; cover 
the pie with the meringue and bake in a cool oven until lightly 
browned. 

APPLE PIE. 

Cover the pie-pan with pastry ; slice the apples thin, and do not 
fill too full ; if apples are tart and juicy, no water is needed ; sprinkle 
sugar on top of fruit, half a teaspoonfnl of cinnamon if liked, and 
scatter bits of butter over the top ; roll the top crust ; make incisions 
in the center to allow the steam to escape; moisten the edge of the 
lower crust with water ; press the edges close together ; cut a strip 
of pastry half an inch wide; moisten around the edge of pie; lay on 
the pastry and press close to the edge ; trim ; bake in a moderate 
oven forty minutes. 

PEACH PIE. 

Prepare the same as sliced apple pie. using as much sugar as neces- 
sary; chop fine three of four peach kernels and sprinkle over the 
fruit : put on the top crust and bake half an hour. 

CREAM PEACH PIE. 

Line pie-pan with pastry ; put on rim ; prick with a fork ; bake 
until golden brown ; fill with sliced fresh or canned peaches ; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar ; cover with sweetened whipped cream. Straw- 
berries or any small fruit may be used instead of peaches. 

JUICY FRUIT PIES. 

Line a pie-pan with pastry ; fill with a piece of linen or old napkin ; 
put on the upper crust and bake in a moderate oven ; stew the fruit ; 
season to taste ; when the pastry is baked, separate with a sharp 
knife; remove the linen; fill with fruit; place the cover on top and 
set aside to cool ; many of these shells can be baked at one time and 
filled when required, but the pastry must be reheated ; remember to 
put the filling into the pie Avhile both are hot. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Line pie-pan with pastry ; sprinkle lightly with flonr ; fill with 
peeled rhubarb cut into inch pieces ; sprinkle with flour ; add one 
cupful of sugar ; put on the top crust and bake from forty minutes 
to one hour. 



56 PEACTICAL COOK BOOK 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Line a pie-pan with pastry and a rim; dust lightly with flour; 
scald three cupfuls of milk ; beat three eggs until creamy ; add three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and beat together; pour the scalded milk 
over the beaten egg; add one saltspoonful of salt and one saltspoon- 
ful of nutmeg ; fill the pie-pan and bake slowly ; as soon as it puffs up 
test with a knife; if it comes out clean it is done. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Two cupfuls of cooked pumpkin, One-fourth teaspoonful of nutmeg, 

Two cupfuls of milk, One-half teaspoonful of salt, 

Two eggs, One level teaspoonful of ginger, 

Two tablespoonfuls of molasses, One-half level teaspoonful of cin- 
One-half cupful of sugar, namon. 

Mix in the order given; line a pie-plate with paste; put on a rim; 
rill with the pumpkin mixture; bake in a moderate oven forty 
minutes. 



Puddings 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound of stale bread One-fourth pound of figs, 

crumbs, One-eighth pound of citron, 

One cupful of hot milk. One-half pound of suet, 

One-half cupful of sugar. One-fourth cup of brandy, 

Four eggs, One-half teaspoonful each of cin- 
One-half pound of raisins, namon, mace, cloves, nutmeg, 

One-half pound of currants. One teaspoonful of salt. 

Cover the bread crumbs with the milk; separate the eggs; beat 
the yolks until ereamy; add the sugar and heat together; add to 

the bread and milk; chop and flour the figs and suet; add all the 
ingredients to the bread and milk; beat the whites of the e^gs stiff 
and add to the mixture; butter the mould; fill three-quarters full; 
steam in a single mould from five to ten hours; serve with brandy 
sauce. 

STEAMED SUET PUDDING. 

Three cupfuls of flour, One cup of water. 

One level teaspoonful of soda, One cup of molasses, 

One cup of chopped suet, One teaspoonful each of cinnamon. 

One cup of raisins and currants, nutmeg and cloves. 

Mix the flour, soda, spices and suet together; add the molasses, 
fruit and water; steam three hours in a single mould, or one hour 
in small moulds; serve hot, with fruit sauce. 



PUDDINGS 57 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, Yolks of two eggs, 

Juice and rind of one-half orange, Whites of four eggs. 
One-third cup of sugar. 

Cover the bread crumbs with milk; add the rind and juice of the 
orange and the beaten yolks of the eggs ; beat the whites until stiff ; 
add the sugar and beat and add to the mixture ; bake in a buttered 
mould; set in a pan of hot water; bake until firm; serve with golden 
sauce. 

FRENCH BREAD PUDDING. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, One saltspoonful of salt, 

Two cupfuls of milk, One tablespoonful of sug;ir. 

Two small eggs, One teaspoonful of butter. 

Scald the milk and pour it over the bread crumbs ; separate the 
eggs and beat the yolks with the sugar ; add to the bread crumbs ; 
and salt and the butter, melted ; pour into a buttered baking dish ; 
set in a pan of hot water ; bake in a moderate oven until firm ; when 
cooked spread with jelly; beat the whites of the eggs stiff; add two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and beat together; cover the pud- 
ding with the meringue and bake in a cool oven until nicely browned. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One-half pound of prunes. Juice of one-half lemon, 

One pint of water, Six level tablespoonfuls of corn- 
One cupful of sugar, starch. 
One quarter teaspoonful of salt, 

Wash the prunes and soak over night; simmer until tender; 
remove the pits; add enough water to the liquid to make two cup- 
fuls ; mix the cornstarch with the sugar ; add to the prunes and cook 
fifteen minutes, stirring frequently ; when cooked add the lemon 
juice and one-half teaspoonful of almond extract ; dip the mould in 
cold water and drain; fill with the pudding and set away to cool; 
serve cold with whipped cream. 

DELICATE PUDDING. 

Four level tablespoonfuls of corn- One and one-half cupfuls of boil 

starch, ing water. 

One-fourth cupful of cold water, One-half cupful of sugar. 

Whites of three eggs, One teaspoonful of vanilln. 

Mix the cornstarch with the cold water ; pour over it the boiling- 
water and cook fifteen minutes ; beat the eggs stiff ; add the sugar 
and beat together ; pour the hot starch over the egg and sugar and 
beat until smooth ; add the vanilla ; dip mould in water ; fill with 
pudding ; set on ice ; serve with boiled custard made from the yolks 
of the eggs. 



58 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 



BOILED CUSTARD. 



One pint of milk. Three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Yolk of three eggs, (3ne-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk; beat the eggs and sugar together; pour the hot 
milk over the beaten egg; cook iinlil creamy; add the vanilla and 
set aside to cool. 

CREAM RICE PUDDING. 

One-fourth cupful of rice, One tablespoonful of sugar. 

Two ;iii<I one-quarter cupfuls of Saltspoonful of salt, 
milk, 

Wash the rice; add the milk, sugar and salt and allow it to come to 
the boiling point; simmer slowly and cook tor two or three hours, 
stirring occasionally; when the rice is tender put on the grate in a 
hoi oven and brown : serve hot or cold. 

BREAD AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Pour tart apples, Salt, sugar and cinnamon. 

Two slices of stale bread. 

Butter the baking dish; pare, core and slice the apples; soak the 
bread in cold water; put a layer of apples in the bottom of the bak- 
ing dish; sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and a little salt; pnl a 
layer of bread, another layer of apples and cover the top with slab' 
bread crumbs; moisten with melted butter; bake in a moderate 
oven for half an hour: cover dish the first fifteen minutes; serve hot 
with lemon sauce. 

APPLE ROLY-POLY. 

Two cupfuls of flour. One-half cupful of sugar. 

One teaspoonful of baking powder, Two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 

One teaspoonful of salt. One egg, 

One tablespoonful of butter, Milk. 

Sift the flour, salt, baking-powder together; nil) in the butter; 
beat the coo; m id to the flour with enough milk to make a soft 
dough; turn out on moulding board and knead until smooth, using 
Hour enough to keep from sticking; roll into sheet one-quarter inch 
in thickness; spread thickly with sliced apples; sift over them the 
sugar and cinnamon; roll like a jelly roll; press the edges of the 
dough well together; place the pudding in baking dish; cover and 
steam over boiling water for one and a half hours; or put in pud- 
ding dish and bake forty minutes; serve with lemon or wine sauce. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

One-half pound of prunes. Whites of six eggs, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt. Six tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Juice of one lemon, 



PUDDING SAUCES 59 

Wash and soak the prunes over night; stew until very soft; re- 
move the pits and chop very fine ; add the lemon juice ; beat the 
whites of the eggs very stiff; add the sugar and salt and beat to- 
gether ; beat in the chopped prunes ; put in buttered baking disli 
and bake in a cool oven thirty minutes ; serve immediately, with 
creamy sauce. 

BAKED CORNMEAL PUDDING. 

Scald one pint of milk; moisten one and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
cornmeal with a little cold milk ; pour over it the hot milk and cook 
in a double boiler for two hours, stirring frequently ; then add one 
level tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt ; two 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, two eggs and one pint of cold milk; 
butter a baking dish and fill with the mixture ; bake in a moderate 
oven one hour; set the baking dish into a pan of hot water. 

CARAMEL CUSTARDS. 

Three eggs, Two-third cupful of caramelized 

Two cupfuls of milk, sugar. 

Scald the milk ; beat the eggs ; pour the hot milk over the beaten 
egg's ; add the sugar, or rather syrup ; pour into buttered custard 
cups ; set the cups in pan of hot water ; bake in cool oven until firm ; 
serve with caramel sauce. 



Pudding Sauces 



GOLDEN SAUCE. 

One-third cupful of butter, One-third cupful of milk. 

One cupful of sugar (powdeied). Grated rind of half an orange 
Yolks of two eggs, 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar and cream together ; then add the 
yolks of the eggs and orange rind; heat the milk scalding hot; pour 
onto the butter; cook until it thickens. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cupful of water, One cupful of sugar, 

Rind of half a lemon, One teaspoonful of cornstarch, 

One teaspoonful of butter. Juice of one large lemon. 

Mix cornstarch with sugar ; cook sugar, water, cornstarch and rind 
of the lemon together for ten minutes ; remove from the fire and add 
butter and lemon juice. 



60 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

WINE SAUCE. 

('renin one cupful of butler; add two cupfuls of powdered sugar 
and cream together; heat a cupful of wine and add slowly; cook 
over boiling water for two minutes. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Cook together one cupful of sugar and one-fourth of a cupful of 
water; boil rapidly until it begins t<> brown; then stir until of a rich 
golden brown; add one-half cupful of water and stir until smooth. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

Coot one cupful of sugar and half a cupful of water for fifteen 
minutes; beat the yolks of three eggs and stir them into the boiling 
syrup: set the bowl into a pan of hot water and beat until it begins 
to thicken; add one tablespoonful of butter and the whites of three 
eggs beaten stiff; lastly add one-third of a cupful of brandy; stir 
thoroughly, and serve. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream; gradually add one cupful 
of powdered sugar and beat until creamy; flavor with one teaspoon- 
ful of any flavoring desired. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

Bea1 butter and sugar together as for hard sauce; add gradually 
one-third of ;i cupful of boiling milk, beating all the time; serve 
immediately. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

Cook one cupful of sugar, <>ne tablespoonful of flour and one cup- 
ful of water together, for live minutes; add half a cupful of any kind 
of fruit juice; pour over one-half cupful of butter beaten to a cream. 

BERRY SAUCE. 

One pint of berries (raspberries, One and one-half cupfuls of pow- 
strawberries or blackberries), dered sugar, 

One tablespoonful of butter. One cov. 

Put the berries in bowl; add one tablespoonful of granulated 
sugar and mash to draw out the juices; set the bowl in a warm place; 
beat the butter to a cream ; add the powdered sugar and the beaten 
white of the egg; just before serving add the mashed berries or 

juice. 



Invalid Cookery 



BEEF TEA. 

Buy the top of the round for beef tea ; it contains the most nutri- 
ment and is the best flavored ; remove every particle of fat ; cut the 
meat into very fine pieces; add one pint of water to each pound of 
beef; put into a glass jar and set the jar in a pan of warm water; 
do not heat the water above 110 degrees; let stand for two hours; 
strain through a strainer cloth ; season with salt and serve. 

BROILED BEEF TEA. 

Broil a thick round steak for five minutes; cut into small pieces 
and press out the juice ; salt and serve, or if too strong add half a 
cupful of hot Avater. 

BARLEY WATER. 

One tablespoonful of pearl barley, One-half of a lemon, 
Three cubes of sugar, One quart of boiling water. 

Wash the barley in cold water, then put with the sugar and lemon 
juice into the boiling water ; place where it will keep hot for three 
hours ; strain and serve ; orange juice may be used instead of lemon. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Cover three tablespoonfuls of oatmeal with one quart of boiling 
water; add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt; boil one hour; put 
into an oatmeal boiler and cook two hours; strain, and serve with 
cream and sugar. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of flaxseed, Juice of two lemons. 
One quart of boling water, 

Pour the boiling water over the flaxseed and steep three hours; 
strain; add the lemon juice and sweeten to taste. 

TOAST. 

Cut stale bread one-third of an inch in thickness ; remove the crusts ; 
place on the toaster on the back part of the stove, turning frequently 
until it is dry; push to the hottest part of the stove and brown 
nicely; toast should be brown and crisp, not hard or soggy in the 
middle. 



62 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

EGGNOG. 

Heat the yolk of one eg-g until creamy; whip the white and beat in 
with the yolk; add one tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
wine or brandy and half a cupful of milk; lastly, a little nutmeg. 

CHICKEN JELLY OR BROTH. 

(lean a small chicken; cut into small pieces; cover it with cold 
water; heat very slowly and simmer until the meat is tender; strain, 
and when cold remove the fat; season with salt, pepper and lemon; 
add the shell and white of one egg and cook for five minutes; skim 
and strain through a fine towel or napkin ; put into cups and cool 
if intended for jelly; small cubes of the breast meat may be moulded 
in the jelly or served in the broth if the patient can take it; serve 
hot without clearing, if intended for broth. 



Cake 

NOTES ON CAKE MAKING. 

Have the bowl warm, the butter soft, sugar fine; use a wooden 
spoon for beating; never mix cake in tin; have pans perfectly clean; 
do not grease the pans ; paper the bottom of the pan, and, for butter 
cakes, butter lightly the upper side of the paper. When baked slip 
a knife around the edges of the cake to loosen it; let stand in the 
pan until you can handle the pan without a holder; let butterless 
cake stand in the pan until cold; when a cake is nearly baked it will 
shrink from the sides of the pan. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Eleven eggs, <>n' teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

One cupful of flour. One teaspoonful of almond or 
One and one-half cupfuls of gran- vanilla extract, 

ulated sugar. 

Sift the flour and cream tartar five times ; sift the sugar twice ; beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; add the sugar gradually ; fold 
in the flour ; add the extract ; paper the bottom of an ungreased pan, 
one with a tube in the center is best ; bake from forty-five minutes to 
one hour in eool oven ; when baked invert the pan and let stand until 
cold. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Make the same as angel cake, adding the yolks of five eggs, beaten 
light. 



CAKE 63 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, One cupful of flour, 

One cupful of sugar, Juice and rind of half a lemon. 

Separate the eggs ; beat the yolks until creamy ; add half of the 
sugar and beat ; add the grated rind of the iemon ; whip the whites ; 
add the lemon juice, the remainder of the sugar, then the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, and lastly fold in the flour ; bake in an ungreased 
pan one hour; when done invert the pan and let stand until cold. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cupful of butter, Two-thirds cupful of egg white, 

One and one-half cupfuls of Three cupfuls of flour and three 

sugar, slightly rounding teaspoonfuls 

Two-thirds cupful of cold water, of baking powder, 

One teaspoonful of lemon juice One teaspoonful of almond and 

or one-fourth teaspoonful of mace extract (one-fourth 

cream tartar. mace). 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar gradually and cream together ; 
add the eggs unbeaten, one-half at a time, and beat together until 
light ; add lemon juice ; sift the flour before measuring ; add water 
and flour alternately ; mix the baking-powder with the last half 
cupful of the flour and sift into the cake ; beat thoroughly, and add 
the flavoring ; beat the cake for five minutes after everything is 
added ; bake in a moderate oven  one loaf, fifty minutes. 

DEVILS FOOD CAKE. 

PART I. 

One-half cupful grated chocolate, One-half cupful of milk. 
One cupful of light brown sugar, 

Cook over the fire, stirring until dissolved ; set aside to cool. 

PART II. 

One-half cupful of butter, Two eggs, 

One cupful of brown sugar, Two and one-half cupfuls of flour, 

One-half cupful of sweet milk, Two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 
One level teaspoonful of soda, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
if lumpy mash out lumps with potato masher; add the eggs and beat 
thoroughly ; dissolve the soda in the milk ; add the milk and flour 
alternately; add the vanilla. Add Part I to Part II; bake in three 
layers ; ice with boiled icing. 

LEMON QUEENS. 

One-half cupful of butter, . Four eggs, 

One cupful of sugar, One-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 

Rind of half a lemon, One-fourth teaspoonful of soda, 

One tablespoonful of lemon One and one-fourth cupfuls of 

juice, flour. 



64 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

(ream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the rind and juice of the lemon; add eggs, unbeaten, one at a 
time, and beat until smooth and light; mix the soda and salt with the 
flour and sift into the batter; bake in muffin pans thirty minutes in 
a moderate oven. 

PLAIN LOAF CAKE. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, Three teaspoonfuls of baking 
One and om-third cupfuls of powder, 

sugar, One cupful of milk, 

Three and one-fourth cupfuls of One teaspoonful of orange and 

flour, vanilla extract (half and half). 

Four eggs, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the eggs, unbeaten, two at a time, and beat until perfectly 
smooth; add the milk and flour alternately, mixing the baking- 
powder with the last half cupful of the flour and sift into the cake; 
add the flavoring; bake in a moderate oven from forty to forty-five 
minutes. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, One half cupful of sour milk. 

Two CUpfuls of Hour, One level teaspoonful of soda. 

Onedialf cupful of butter, One teaspoonful each of nutmeg, 

Four eggs, cinnamon and cloves. 

Cream the butter: add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs; add the milk and 
flour alternately, mixing the spices and baking-powder with the Las1 
half cupful of the flour; bake from thirty to forty-five minutes; ice 
with boiled icing. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One-third cupful of butter, One and one-half cupfuls of flour, 

One cupful of sugar. One and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
One-half cupful of milk, baking powder. 

Two eggs, 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
add the eggs, unbeaten, and beat thoroughly ; sift the flour and bak- 
ing-powder together ; add the milk and flour alternately ; bake in 
layers fifteen minutes in moderate oven. 

COCOANUT ICING. 

Beat the whites of two eggs stiff; add two cupfuls of powdered 
sugar and beat together; mix cocoanut with one-half the icing and 
spread between the layers ; spread over the top and sides of the cake 
and sprinkle thickly with cocoanut on top and sides. 



CAKE 65 

QUEEN VICTORIAS WEDDING CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, One-half cupful of boiled milk. 

Two pounds of currants, One pound of flour, 
One and one-half pounds of white One pound of almonds, 

sugar. Two pounds of citron, 

One pound of butter, One teaspoonful of nutmeg, 

One cupful of brown sugar, One teaspoonful of cloves, 

One quart of brandy, One teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Blanch and cut the almonds into strips ; slice citron ; seed and 
clean raisins; wash and dry currants the day before mixing; flour, 
sugar and almonds are dried and slightly browned in slow oven; 
separate the eggs and beat ; cream the butter ; add the sugar and 
cream together; add the flour and eggs alternately, mixing spices 
with the flour ; then the milk ; with wooden spatula beat in the fruit ; 
add one pint of the brandy and bake four hours in a moderately 
heated oven; raise the pan from bottom of oven; when baked and 
cold turn over it the remaining pint of brandy ; wrap in paraffine 
paper and box ; once a year remove from box and pour over another 
pint of brandy. 

POUND CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, One cupful of sugar, 

Five eggs, Two cupfuls of pastry flour, 

One teaspoonful of baking pow- One teaspoonful of extract  vanilla, 
der, lemon and a few drops of mace. 

Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar and cream together ; 
add the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time, beating at least three minutes 
between each egg; add the flour sifted, mixing the baking-powder 
with the last half cupful of the flour ; lastly add the extracts, beating 
the cake thoroughly ; bake in a loaf in a moderate oven fifty minutes ; 
if baked in a sheet it may be cut in fancy shapes and iced with con- 
fectioners' icing. 

A white fruit cake is made by adding one cupful of stoned raisins 
or currants, or one quarter of a pound of citron to the batter. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of butter, One pound of sugar, 

One dozen eggs, One pound of citron, 

Five pounds of raisins, Three pounds of currants, 

One cupful of molasses, One tablespoonfnl each of cinna- 

One pint of brandy, mon, cloves, mace, allspice, 

One-half pint of wine, and nutmeg. 

One pound of flour, Two level teaspoonfuls of soda. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
beat the eggs until creamy and add to the butter and sugar, then 
add the molasses ; sift the flour, soda and spices together and add 
gradually, beating thoroughly ; stone and chop the raisins ; chop the 



66 



PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 



citron; add the fruit, wine and brandy and mix thoroughly; line ;i 
large pan with two thicknesses of heavy brown paper ; butter lightly ; 
bake in a moderate oven three hours. 

ALMOND SLICES. 

Six eggs, Three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, 

Two cupfuls of sugar, One level teaspoonful each of all- 
One-half pound of almonds. spice, and cinnamon. 

Three cupfuls of flour, Oik -half teaspoonful each of cloves 
Three teaspoonfuls of baking and Qutmeg. 

powder, 

Blanch and chop the almonds: separate the eggs; beat the yolks 
until creamy; mix the chocolate and spices with the sugar; sift the 
Hour and baking-powder together; add the sugar to the beaten yolks 
of the eggs, then the Hour and chopped almonds; lastly the whipped 
whites of the eggs; shape in long narrow strips on a fiat pan and 
bake twenty minutes; while warm cut in slices; will keep a long time. 

HOT WATER GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful of molasses, One tablespoonful of ginger, 

One tc;is| nfnl of soda, One tablespoonful of melted butter, 

One-half teaspoonful of salt, Two and one-half cupfuls of flour.  
One half cupful of boiling water. 

Mix the molasses, ginger, soda, salt, butter and boiling water to- 
gether; add the Hour, sifted; bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cupful of boiling water. One cupful of Hour, 

One-half cupful of butter. Pour eggs. 

Put the water and butter in saucepan and boil slowly until the 
butter is melted; then add the flour and alknv it to cook until it 
cleans from the sides of the pan, stirring constantly; when cool, add 
one egg at a time, beating it in throughly; drop, by small spoonfuls, 
on a buttered papered pan; bake in a moderate oven until puffed 
and crusty  about thirty minutes; when cold, cut on one side and 
till with whipped cream, sweetened with powdered sugar and 
flavored with vanilla or with a filling made from "Filling for Cream 
Puffs." 

FILLING FOR CREAM PUFFS. 

Two cupfuls of milk. One-third of a cupful of flour, 

Three-fourths of a cupful of sugar. Two eggs. 
One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk ; mix the sugar and flour together and beat into the 
eggs : pour hot milk over the beaten egg ; cook in a double boiler until 
thickened; stirring constantly; when cool flavor with vanilla. 



CAKE 67 

FROSTING. 

White of one egg, One cupful of confectioners ' sugar. 

One tablespoonful of lemon juice, 

Add the sugar gradually to the unbeaten white of the egg; when 
all the sugar is added beat in the lemon juice and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla; beat until it will pile up in the bowl when dropped 
from the egg-beater. 

BOILED ICING. 

One cupful of granulated sugar. One-fourth of a cupful of water. 

Boil the water and sugar together until it will form a soft ball 
when dropped in ice water; beat the white of an egg until stiff; pour 
the boiling syrup over the beaten white of the egg and stir until it 
thickens; flavor with any desired flavoring. 



CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Two squares of unsweetened One and one-half tablespoonfuls 

chocolate, of milk, 

Three-fourths of a cupful of One egg. 

sugar, 

Scrape the chocolate ; add the milk and sugar ; cook until it boils ; 
beat the egg light and creamy; pour the chocolate mixture over the 
egg ; cook one minute longer. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Four eggs, One-half of a cupful of powdered 

Three-fourths of a cupful of pas- sugar, 

try flour, 

Separate the eggs ; beat the yolks until creamy ; add the sugar and 
beat together; beat the whites until very stiff and dry and add to the 
yolks ; sift in the flour and stir quickly ; paper a large shallow pan ; 
bake twenty minutes; while yet warm cut off the edges, spread with 
any kind of jelly and roll up ; pin a towel around it and put in a cool 
place ; cut with a sharp knife. 

WAFERS. 

One-half cupful of butter, Two cupfuls of flour, 

One-half cupful of milk. One cupful of powdered sugar. 

Cream the butter and gradually add the sugar and cream together ; 
add the milk and flour alternately and mix thoroughly ; spread on a 
sheet iron or turn baking pans bottom side up and wipe very clean ; 
cut into squares when lightly browned and roll while hot ; the wafers 
must be cut and rolled as soon as they come from the oven. 



68 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

COOKIES. 

One cupful of sugar, Two eggs. 

Six tablespoonfuls of melted but- Two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

ter, der, 

Four tablespoonfuls of milk, Flour to make a soft dough. 

Stir the butter into the sugar; beat the eggs and add to the sugar; 
add the milk ; sift the baking-powder with one cupful of flour and 
add to the mixture, then enough more flour to make a dough; roll 
out on well-floured board and cut into shape; bake in quick oven. 

NUT WAFERS. 

Heat until very light two eggs and one cupful Golden C brown 
sugar; add three tablespoonfuls of flour and one cupful of nuts 
finely chopped; drop on buttered tins and bake. 

SMALL NUT CAKES. 

One pound of butter, Three eupfuls of dour. 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar. One and one-half teaspoonfuls of 

Four eggs, baking powder, 

Wine glassful of brandy, English walnuts. 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually and cream together; 
beat the eggs until very creamy; sift baking-powder with flour; add 
the eggs to the creamed butter and sugar; add flour and brandy: 
shape into balls; put a piece of nut on top; bake in hot oven. 

CARAMEL ICING. 

One cupful of brown sugar. One-third cupful of milk, 

One tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Boil slowly until it thickens: then beat until thick enough to 
spread. 



Delicate Desserts 



STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, One and two-third cupfuls of 
One-third of a cupful of cold strawberry juice, 

water, Juice of one lemon. 

One-third of a cupful of boiling Whites of two small eggs, 

water, Six tablespoonfuls of whipped 
One saltspoonful of salt, cream. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water ; when softened add the boiling 
water and stir until dissolved ; add the strawberry juice, lemon juice 
and salt ; set away to cool until it begins to thicken ; whip the eggs 



DELICATE DESSERTS 69 

until stiff; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and beat together; when 
the gelatine is slightly thickened beat with Dover egg-beater until 
light; add the whites of the eggs, and lastly the whipped cream; 
dip the mould in cold water and drain ; fill with the mixture and set 
away to harden; do not use a tin mould; pineapple, grape, lemon, 
orange, currant, raspberries, cherry, etc., may be used instead of 
strawberry; cut in slices and serve with cake. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-third box of gelatine, One cupful of sugar, 

One-third cupful of cold water, White of one egg, 

One-third cupful of boiling water, One pint of whipped cream, 

Juice of one orange with water One-half pound of figs, 

enough added to make one Juice of half a lemon. 

and one-third cupfuls, 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let stand until soft; cook 
the sugar and hot water to a syrup ; pour the boiling syrup over the 
gelatine and stir until dissolved ; strain and cool ; whip the egg ; add 
cream to egg and stand the bowl in a pan of ice w r ater ; add the 
gelatine mixture and stir until it thickens; chop the figs and cover 
with the lemon juice ; let stand while making the pudding ; add figs 
to the pudding, and let stand on the ice until thickened. 

PEACHES IN JELLY. 

One-third box of gelatine, One and one-third cupfuls of 
One-third cupful of cold water, peach liquid and water, 

One-third cupful of boiling water, Few drops of almond extract. 
One-third cupful of sugar, 

Cut the peaches in slices; cover the gelatine with cold water and 
let soak until soft ; cook the sugar with the boiling water and pour 
the hot syrup over the softened gelatine; strain and add the peach 
liquor and water, then the extract; let stand until it begins to 
thicken; peel and slice the peaches; put into a mould; pour the 
slightly thickened gelatine over the peaches and set on ice until it 
thickens; serve with whipped cream. 

GINGER CREAM. 

One-third box of gelatine. One-fourth pound of crystal i zed 

One-half cupful of cold water, ginger, 

One-half cupful of boiling water, One pint of whipped cream, 
One cupful of powdered sugar, Whites of two eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft ; add the boiling water 
mihI stir until dissolved; let stand until cold; when it thickens beat 
until light; whip the whites of the eggs until stiff; add the whipped 
cream; place the bowl in a pan of ice water; sift in the sugar; then 
;id(l the- gelatine and mix lightly; when thickening add the ginger. 



70 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

chopped fine and mixed with a little powdered sugar; dip an ice 
cream brick in cold water and drain ; fill with the cream and let stand 
until thickened ; cut in slices when serving. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Three pints of whipped cream, One-half cupful of powdered sugar. 

One tablespoonful of gelatine, One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Measure the cream after it is whipped ; cover the gelatine with cold 
water and let stand until soft ; add one-third of a cupful of boiling 
water, stirring until dissolved ; when cold strain into the cream care- 
fully, stirring all the time to prevent lumping; add the vanilla and 
stir until it thickens ; line the cases or a glass dish with lady fingers ; 
fill with the cream and set on ice until serving time. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

One-third box of gelatine, One and one-half cupfuls of milk. 

One-half cupful of cold water. Eight tablespoonfuls of whipped 

Whites of three eggs, cream. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft ; scald the milk; pour the 
hot milk over the softened gelatine ; whip the cream ; whip the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth; add the sugar and beat together; set the 
bowl into ice water; stir the gelatine until it begins to thicken; add 
the beaten white of the egg, the cream and vanilla ; stir until thick- 
ened; the gelatine will thicken very quickly after it begins, so the 
cream and egg must be added instantly; if the gelatine becomes too 
thick to mix smoothly, set the bowl in a pan of hot water and stir 
until it liquifies, then add the cream and egg ; mould ; serve with cake. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-fourth of a box of gelatine. One-half cupful of boiling water. 

One cupful of sugar, Juice of one lemon with water 
Whites of three eggs, enough added to make three- 

One-half cupful of cold water, fourths of a cupful. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let soak until soft ; add 
the boiling water and stir until it dissolves; beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff ; add the sugar and beat together ; add the lemon juice and 
water to the gelatine and let stand until cold ; set the bowl into a pan 
of ice water; when it begins to thicken beat with Dover egg-beater 
until light ; add the beaten white of the egg and beat until thickened ; 
pour into a glass dish and set on the ice to harden ; never mould food 
which contains acid in tin; serve the pudding with a custard sauce 
made from the yolks of the eggs ; three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; one 
pint of milk; one teaspoonful of vanilla; one-half saltspoonful of 
salt ; scald the milk ; beat the eggs until creamy ; add the sugar and 
beat together; pour the hot milk over the beaten egg and stir over 
the fire until creamy; when cold add the vanilla. 



SHERBETS AND ICE CREAM 71 

WINE JELLY. 

One box of gelatine, One cupful of cold water. 

Three cupfuls of boiling water, One pint of sherry. 
One pint of sugar, Juice of one lemon. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let stand until softened ; 
add the boiling water and stir until dissolved; cook the sugar in one 
cupful of water five minutes ; strain the gelatine into the syrup ; add 
the wine and lemon juice ; strain through a napkin and set on ice for 
six or eight hours. Orange, lemon, grape, or any fruit jelly may be 
made in this way. 

COMPOTE OF FIGS. 

One pound of figs, Two slices of lemon, 

One-half pound of powdered sugar, Two sticks of cinnamon. 
One pint of water, 

Cut the figs in small pieces ; add the water and sugar and cook 
slowly ten or fifteen minutes, stirring constantly the last five min- 
utes ; remove from the fire and add lemon and cinnamon ; let stand 
until cold ; serve in punch glasses witli whipped cream ; sweeten the 
cream with powdered sugar. 



Shcrbcrts and Ice Cream 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING. 

Pour the mixture into the tin can ; put the beater in and put on the 
cover ; put the can into the tub and see that the point on the bottom 
of the can fits into the socket in the tub ; put on the crosspiece and 
turn to see if everything is in place; break the ice very fine ; put a 
layer of about four inches in the bottom of the tub. and then a layer 
of salt, using about three times as much ice as salt; put on another 
layer of ice and one of salt, and continue until the tub is full ; turn 
the crank slowly until the cream begins to harden, then turn rapidly 
for about ten minutes. It will be hard to turn when the mixture is 
frozen; wipe the salt and water from the cover; turn back the cross- 
piece and take off the cover without displacing the can ; remove the 
beater and scrape the cream from it ; pack the cream down ; put on 
the cover and cork the hole; put on the crosspiece and pack the ice 
tightly, adding more ice and salt; let stand two or three hours to 
ripen.' To mould cream, fill the mould, pressing the cream into 
every corner; cover, seal by wrapping a piece of muslin, dipped in 
softened fat, around the mould where the cover and mould join: 
pack in ice and salt for an hour; cover the bucket with an old rug 
or piece of carpet. This will prevent the ice melting rapidly. 



72 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

BRICK ICE CREAM. 

Freeze the eream without any flavoring; when frozen remove the 
dasher; set a bowl in a pan of ice water; take about a pint of the 
frozen cream ; mix it until it is creamy ; add the flavoring desired ; 
mix thoroughly and place in the bottom of the mould ; mix another 
portion of the frozen cream with a second flavoring and spread it 
on top ; continue until the mould is filled ; seal and pack in ice and 
salt for an hour or more. To remove it from the mould, dip into 
pan of boiling water ; remove instantly and turn out the cream ; or 
wrap the mould in a towel dipped in hot water ; cut in slices when 
serving. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, One-half cupful of water, 

One cupful of sugar, Two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Pinch of salt, 

Cook the sugar in the water I'm- five minutes; add to the cream; 
add the vanilla ; let cool and freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

One pint of cream, A cupful and a half of caramelized 

One-fourth cupful of water, sugar, 

Boil one cupful of sugar with the water, without stirring, until it 
begins to brown; then stir until a golden brown in color; add one- 
half cupful of water and stir until dissolved. To the cream add the 
salt and caramelized sugar and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

One quart of berries, I fa If a saltspoonful of salt. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, Three pints of cream. 

Wash the berries ; add one cupful of sugar and the salt and let 
stand; cook the other cupful of sugar in half a cupful of water for 
five minutes ; add the syrup to the cream ; freeze the cream ; when 
nearly frozen wipe off the cover and remove carefully ; add the 
crushed fruit; mixing it thoroughly with the cream; finish freezing 
and pack. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream. Two cupfuls of sugar, 

One quart of milk, One-half saltspoonful of salt, 

Six eggs, Two tablespoonfuls of flavoring. 

Beat the eggs until creamy ; add the salt ; cook the sugar in a half 
cupful of water for five minutes ; scald the milk ; add the syrup and 
pour the hot milk oven the beaten egg ; cook over boiling water until 
creamy, but not curdled; when cool add the cream and flavoring; 
freeze. 



SHEEBETS AND ICE CREAM 73 

The addition of one tablespoonful of gelatine, softened with a little 
cold water and dissolved in the hot milk, makes the cream smoother 
and richer. 

NUT ICE CREAM. 

Almonds, walnuts, cocoannt or pistachio nuts, blanched and 
chopped fine or pounded to a paste may be added to any of the 
recipes for ice cream. Allow one pint of nuts to each quart of cream. 

MOOSE. 

One quart of whipped cream, One and one-half cupfuls of pow- 

Three teaspoonfuls of vanilla, dered sugar. 

Whip the cream stiff ; drain ; add the vanilla and sift in the sugar. 
Line ice cream mould with white paper ; pour in the mixture ; cover 
and seal the cover by dipping a piece of muslin, about one inch in 
width, into softened fat or grease ; draw it tightly around the mould 
where the cover joins; fasten; pack the mould in a pail of ice and 
salt, using three times as much ice as salt ; cover the pail with an old 
rug or blanket ; let stand five or six hours ; when taken from the ice 
and salt dip quickly into a pan of boiling water or wrap in a towel 
dipped in hot water ; turn out the moose ; cut in slices and serve with 
cake. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

One pint of chestnuts, One pint of sugar, 

One pint of boiling water, One pound of French candies, 

One pint of almonds, One pint of cream, 

Yolks of six eggs, One pint of pineapple. 

One tablespoonful of vanilla, 

Shell, blanch and boil the chestnuts twenty minutes, or until soft ; 
mash and rub through a sieve ; blanch the almonds ; chop fine and 
pound to a paste ; boil the sugar and water together fifteen minutes ; 
beat the yolks of the eggs until creamy ; add the syrup ; return to 
the fire and cook until it thickens ; beat until cold ; add the chestnuts, 
fruit, candies, almonds and vanilla, and freeze ; pack and let stand 
two or three hours to ripen. 

To blanch almonds or chestnuts, shell the nuts and pour boiling 
water over them; let stand two or three minutes; then throw them 
into cold water ; remove the skins. 

TO WHIP CREAM. 

Very thick or very thin cream will not whip ; the former will turn 
to butter and the latter will make a liquid froth. 

Cream that will hardly pour should be diluted with equal quantity 



74 PRACTICAL COOK BOOK 

of milk before whipping. The cream should be icy cold. If you have 
not a whipping churn, the simplest way to whip cream is to pour 
into a deep bowl; set in ice water and beat with a Dover egg-beater. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One tablespoonful of gelatine, <>m' pinl of water, 

One pint can of pineapple. Juice of one lemon. 

One pint of sugar, 

Boil the sugar in a half cupful of water five minutes; cover the 
gelatine with cold water and let si and until softened; pour the hot 
syrup over the softened gelatine and stir until dissolved; to the 
pineapple add the pint of water and juice of the lemon; strain the 
dissolved gelatine into the mixture and freeze. 

The whites of three eggs may be substituted in place of the gela- 
tine, if desired. Any fruit juice may be substituted in place of pine- 
apple. 

LEMON ICE. 

()m> quart of water. Two cupfuls of sugar. 

Juice of six lemons, 

Cook the sugar in one cupful of water five minutes; add the (piart 
of water and lemon juice and freeze. 

FRAPPE. 

Freeze a fruit ice to a mush and serve in sherbel glasses. 



Beverages 

COFFEE. 

Mocha and -lava coffee are supposed to make the best mixture. 
The best grade, however, should be bought. It should always be 
ground just before using and never bought ground, as it quickly 
loses its flavor, even if kept in air-tight tins. 

Coffee should not be boiled longer than one or two minutes; when 
coffee is boiled for a long time we lose from our beverage the deli- 
cious aroma which permeates the room, leaving the coffee bitter. 
Allow one tablespoonful of coffee for each cupful, and one for the 
pot. 

Five tablespoonfuls of finely One egg white, or two egg shells, 

ground coffee, Two cupfuls of boiling water. 

Two cupfuls of cold wafer. 



BEVERAGES 75 

Have the coffee ground medium (not too fine) ; mix the dry 
coffee with the egg white ; add the cold water and mix thoroughly ; 
let come to the boiling point, slowly ; boil one or two minutes ; then 
add the boiling water and set on the back part of the stove where it 
will keep hot, but will not boil, for fifteen or twenty minutes ; serve 
with hot milk and cream. Do not boil, simply scald the milk ; boiled 
milk gives an unpleasant flavor. The egg is used to clear the coffee. 

VIENNA COFFEE. 

To one-fourth of a cupful of hot milk add two tablespoonfuls of 
whipped cream; fill the cup with hot coffee. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape fine an ounce and a half of chocolate ; put into a saucepan 
with one cupful of water ; cook until smooth ; add to it three cupfuls 
of scalding hot milk ; mix thoroughly and serve with whipped cream. 
If unsweetened chocolate is used add two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

TEA. 

In making tea an earthern teapot is best ; fill the teapot with boil- 
ing water and let stand five minutes ; empty, and put in the tea ; 
allowing one teaspoonful for each cup ; cover with freshly boiled 
water and allow it to stand on the stove where it will keep hot, but 
will not boil, for five minutes ; or put in a cosy. 

LEMONADE. 

Juice of three and grated rind Half a cupful of sugar, 
of one large lemon, Four cupfuls of water. 

Cook the sugar and grated rind of the lemon in half a cupful of 
water for five minutes; let cool squeeze the lemons; add the syrup 
and the remainder of the water : strain and serve ice cold. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Apple, Salad 37 

Apples, Fried 31 

Asparagus, Salad 36 

Asparagus 44 

Bacon 32 

Barley, Water 61 

Bavarian Cream 70 

Beans, Boston Baked 43 

" String 45 

Beef, Boiled 18 

" Broth 5 

" Corned 19 

" Roast 22 

11 Soup 5 

" Steak 21 

" Stew 20 

" Tea 61 

Beets, Baked 43 

" Boiled 43 

Beverages 74 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 48 

Bisque of Lobster 12 

Boiled Dinner 19 

Boiled Meats 18 

Boning, Fish 13 

Bouillon 6 

Bread, Boston Brown 47 

" Corn 50 

" Graham 46 

" Milk 46 

"" Vienna 45 

" Whole Wheat 47 

Broiled Hamburg Steak 32 

Steaks 21 

Broiling 21 

Broth, Chicken 6 

Buckwheat Cakes 51 

Buns 47 

Cabbage 44 

Salad 36 

Cake, Angel 62 

tl Cocoanut 64 

" Corn 50 

" Delicate 63 

41 Devil's Food 63 

" Fruit 65 

' ' German Coffee 47 

Instructions in Mixing 62 



Cake, Jelly Roll 67 

" Lemon Queens 63 

" Plain Loaf 64 

" Pound i^~) 

" Spice 64 

" Sponge 63 

" Sunshine 62 

" Wedding 65 

Cakes, Almond 66 

" Buckwheat 51 

" Flannel 50 

" Griddle 50 

" Short , 48 

" Small Nut 68 

Calf's Liver 32 

Caramel Syrup 51 

" Custards 59 

" Icing 68 

Cauliflower 44 

Celery Salad 36 

Charlotte Russe 70 

Cheese Balls 30 

Chicken, Broiled 22 

" Croquettes 28 

" Fricassee 2() 

Fried 27 

" Roast 25 

" Salad 23 

" Stew 19 

( ihocolate 75 

Chowder, Clam 12 

" Fish 13 

Coffee, Making 74 

" Vienna 75 

Cookies 68 

Corn, Green 45 

Cream, Bavarian 70 

" Ginger 69 

" Puffs 66 

" Sauce 37 

" Strawberry 70 

" Whipped 73 

( Jroquettes 27 

lt Chicken 28 

" Fish 16 

" Meat 29 

" Potatoes 28 

" Rice 29 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX Continued 



Croquettes, Royal 28 

11 Sweetbreads 28 

Croutons 9 

Crullers 30 

Cucumbers 35 

Custard, Boiled 58 

Baked 59 

" Caramel 59 

Doughnuts 31 

Drawn Batter 38 

Duck, Tame 25 

" Wild 26 

Egg- Balls 9 

" Salad 35 

" Vermicelli 53 

" Baked 52 

" Boiled ... 51 

(i for Invalids 51 

11 Poached 52 

" Scrambled 52 

" Shirred 52 

Eggnog 62 

Fat for Frying..! 26 

" to Clarify 26 

Fish, Baked ' 14 

" Balls 15 

" Boiled 14 

" To Bone 13 

" Broiled 13 

" Chowder 13 

" To Clean 13 

" Cod 15 

" Creamed 15 

11 Croquettes 16 

" Escalloped 16 

" Fried 14 

" Roes, Fried 16 

" Salad 34 

" Salt 15 

Sauces 37 

" To Skin 13 

" Souffle 15 

Filling for Cream Puffs 66 

Flannel Cakes 50 

Force Meat Balls 9 

Frappe 74 

Freezing 71 

French Dressing 33 

Fricasseeing 20 

Fritters, Apple 29 

" Batter 29 

" Chicken 30 

" Fruit 30 

" Oyster 30 

Frogs Legs, Fried 16 

Frosting 67 



Frying 26 

Game, To Clean and Truss 24 

Gelatine Desserts 68 

Gems, Graham 49 

Giblets, To Clean 24 

Gingerbread 66 

Gravv 24 

Gruel, Oatmeal 61 

Ham, Boiled 18 

Hamburg Steak 32 

Hollandaise Sauce 38 

Horseradish Sauce 37 

Ice Cream 72 

" Caramel 72 

" To Freeze 72 

To Mould 72 

Nut 73 

" Neapolitan 72 

Vanilla 72 

Strawberry 72 

[ces, Lemon 74 

Icings 67 

Invalid Cookery 61 

Jelly, Chicken ' 62 

Jenny Lind 48 

Lamb Chops, Broiled 22 

" " Breaded 27 

11 Fricassee 20 

" Roast 24 

Lemon Pie 54 

Sauce 59 

Lemonade 75 

fl Flaxseed (51 

Lettuce 36 

Liver, Calf's 32 

Lobster, Bisque L2 

" Salad 34 

Materials Served in Soup 9 

Macaroni 42 

' with Cream Sauce 42 

" with Cheese 42 

" with Tomatoes 42 

 Maitre d 'Hotel Sauce 40 

Mayonnaise Dressing 33 

" Dressing, Cooked 33 

Meats, 18 

" Corned 19 

il Sauces 37 

Meringue 55 

Mint Sauce 40 

Moose 73 

Muffins 49 

" Sally Lunns 49 

" Raised 49 

Mush, Fried 30 

Mushroom Sauce 38 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX Continued 



Mutton Chops 22 

a  Fricassee 20 

Stew 20 

New Jiingland Dinner 19 

Oatmeal Gruel 61 

Omelets, French _'- 

" Cheese 52 

Ham 52 

" Light 53 

Onions, Boiled 43 

Orange Pudding 51 

" Jelly 71 

Oyster Cocktail 17 

'" Plant 10 

Stuffing 27 

Stew 17 

Oysters, Creamed 17 

" Escalloped 18 

" Fritters 30 

" Fried 30 

" Panned 17 

" Patties 17 

" a la .foulette 18 

" Raw 17 

Pan Broiling 21 

Parker House Rolls 46 

Parsnips, Fried 44 

Peas, Green 45 

Paste, Puff 53 

Pastry, Flaky 5^ 

Pie, Apple 55 

" Custard 56 

" Juicy Fruit 55 

lt Lemon 54 

Mince 54 

" Peach 55 

" Peach Cream 55 

" Pumpkin 56 

" Rhubarb 55 

Popovers 49 

Pork and Beans 43 

Pork Chops 32 

". Roast 24 

Pot Roast 23 

Potato Balls 41 

Potato Salad 35 

" Soup 12 

Potatoes, Baked 41 

Boiled 40 

" Browned 41 

" Creamed 41 

11 French Fried 41 

" Lyonnaise 42 

Mashed 41 

Rice 41 

" Saratoga 41 



Potatoes, Sweet - 42 

Poultry, To Clean 24 

" To Draw - 24 

" To Dress for Roasting.... 25 

" Gravy 25 

" To Stuff and Truss 25 

Prune Pudding 27 

Pudding, Apple Roly Poly 5S 

" Bread, French 57 

11 Bread and Apple 58 

" Corn Meal 59 

" Delicate 57 

" Fruit, Steamed 56 

" Fig 69 

" Gelatine 68 

" Nesselrode 73 

" Orange 57 

11 Plum, English 58 

" Prune 57 

" Prune Souffle 58 

" Rice Cream 58 

il Sauces - 60 

" Snow <" 

" Strawberry 68 

Suet 56 

" Yorkshire 23 

Rabbit Curry 20 

Rhubarb Pie ^ 

Rice, Boiled - 42 

" Croquettes 29 

Roasting 22 

Rolls, Cinnamon 47 

" French -. 46 

" Parker House 40 

Swedish 4S 

" Twin 46 

Salad 36 

" Asparagus 36 

Apple 37 

' ' Banana 37 

" Beet 30 

" Cabbage 36 

" Celery 30 

" Chicken ; ^ :; 

Cucumber 35 

" ^gg i*5 

" Fish 3o 

Fruit 37 

Lettuce 36 

(i Lobster 34 

" Meat 35 

" Potato 35 

11 Shrimp 34 

" Sweetbread 34 

" Tomato 35 

Sally Lunns 49 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX Continued 



Salmon on Toast 16 

Salsify Soup 10 

Sauces, Meat and Fish 37 

" Bechamel 39 

" Beurre Noir 38 

" Brown 37 

Butter 38 

Ci Champagne 39 

" Horseradish 37 

" Hollandaise 38 

" Maitre d 'Hotel 40 

Mint 40 

" Mushroom 38 

Oyster 39 

Tartar 39 

<< Tartare 39 

" Tomato 38 

" White 37 

11 Pudding 60 

" Berry 60 

" Brandy 60 

" Caramel 60 

" Custard 58 

" Foamy 60 

" Fruit 60 

" Golden - 59 

" Hard 60 

" Lemon 59 

" Wine 60 

Sauteing 31 

Sherbet, Pineapple 74 

Shortcake, apricot 48 

" urarige 48 

" Strawberry 48 

Shrimp Salad.... 34 

Souffle, r'ish 15 

" Prune 58 

Soup, Beef 5 

" Bisque Lobster 12 

' ' Bouillon j 6 

" Chicken 6 

" Clear Beef 5 

" Clam 12 

" Consomme 7 

" Cream Asparagus 10 

" Cream Celery 10 

" Cream Chicken 10 

" Cream Salsify 10 



Soup, Cream Tomato 11 

" Fish 13 

Macaroni 8 

" Muligatawnev 8 

" Mock Bisque 11 

" Mock Turtle 7 

" Oyster 17 

" Green Pea 11 

" Split Pea 11 

11 Potato 12 

" Tomato 9 

" Vegetable 6 

11 Vermicelli 8 

Spinach 44 

Squash, Summer 44 

Stew, Beef 19 

<* Chicken 19 

" Veal 20 

Stock, To 'lcar 5 

To Make 5 

Mixed 6 

Stuffing, Bread 25 

" Oyster 25 

Sweetbreads 2 1 

li Cnamed 24 

'* Salad 34 

Tartar Sauce 39 

Tartare Sauce 39 

Tea 75 

" Beef 61 

" Beef Broiled 61 

i i mbales 29 

Toast 61 

Tomato Salad 35 

" Escalloped 43 

Turkey, Roasl 25 

Veal Cutlet :n 

" Heart 23 

" Roast 24 

" Stew 20 

Vegetables 40 

Wafers 67 

Wafers, Nut 68 

Waffles 51 

Water Ice "4 

Wine Jelly.., ~ 1 

Yorkshire Pudding 2:; 



A few of the many reasons why 

Carnation Milk 



I S BEST 



Carnation Cows 
browse in the 
sun -kissed fields 
and meadows in 
the States of 
Washington and 
Oregon  west of 
the mountains  
where the pas- 
tures are green 
the year 'round 




STERILIZED! 

rJllfe 




Nature has pro- 
vided numerous 
springs and the 
best of mountain 
streams 

Climatic condi- 
tions are perfect 

Wholesome 
well - bred cows 
and p e r f e c t 
sanitation go to 
make up the rest 



SERIAL NUMBER 2205 



On account of its purity, richness in butterfat, etc- Miss 

Tracy recommends and uses Carnation Milk in all her 

lectures and demonstrations 

Pacific Coast Condensed Milk Co. 

OEFICES: SEATTLE, WASH. 



Factories: KENT, WASH. 
CHEHALIS, WASH. 



MOUNT VERNON, WASH. 
MONROE, WASH. 



FOREST GROVE, ORE. 
HILLSBORO, ORE. 



John H. Spohn Co., Agents, San Francisco 





^FOLGER'S^ 

gOLBHLGATF 




FOLGEtfs I 
fio!denG aie f 




TEAS 

CEYION * 




HIGH GRADE HIGH PRICE 

J. A. FOLGER & CO. 

SAN FRANCISCO 



'N 27 \dos 



