
presented to 

Gbe Xfbrar^ 

of tbc 

Tnniveratt? of Toronto 





HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 



Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. net. 

THE WAY TO KEEP WELL 

PRACTICAL HOME HINTS ON COMMON AILMENTS. 

BY C. STANFORD READ, M.B. (LoND.), 
London County Council Lecturer. 

" One of the best books on hygiene written in a popular 
style for the layman." The Manchester Guardian. 

"The author touches on many useful points and gives 
much sound advice." The Lancet. 

" Eminently common-sense and untechnical, so that any 
reader may readily understand it." T. P.'s Weekly. 

LONDON: T. FISHER UNWIN 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST 

v. 

CANCER 



BY 

ROBERT BELL, M.D., F.F.P.S. 

Formerly Senior Physician to the Glasgow Hospital for Women 

AUTHOR OF 

" CANCER : ITS CAUSATION AND TREATMENT WITHOUT OPERATION," 

"THE CANCER PROBLEM IN A NUTSHELL," AND "THE 

WOMAN IN HEALTH AND SICKNESS " 




T. FISHER UNWIN 

LONDON LEIPSIC 

ADELPHI TERRACE INSELSTRASSE 20 

1908 






(All rights reserved.) 



PBEFACE 



ANY attempt to solve a problem, which, 
so far, has baffled many highly competent 
investigators, cannot but prove laborious. 
In many instances, however, these have 
succeeded in removing certain difficulties 
out of the way, thus affording no small 
assistance to their successors in the field 
of research. Notwithstanding this help, 
however, it is hardly to be expected that 
disappointment after disappointment will 
not have to be encountered, and hopes of 
its solution time after time to be falsified. 
Many plausible theories will be evolved, 
only to be abandoned as untenable, though, 
for the moment, they have appeared to be 
beyond contention. Yet failure in one 



6 PREFACE 

direction often points to success in another, 
and so light gradually begins to penetrate, 
and eventually dissipates, the fog which 
so recently had blurred one's vision. 

This applies in a special manner to the 
efforts that have been made to solve the 
cancer problem. 

How frequently has it been proclaimed 
that a cure has at last been discovered 
for this horrible disease, which experience 
has not been permitted to verify, and yet, 
that a cure must exist no one, I hope, 
will be so pessimistic as to doubt. 

Is it not, however, quite as important 
to endeavour to ascertain its causation, so 
that we may be enabled to indicate what 
preventive measures it would be wise to 
adopt ? for I am convinced this is the 
course we shall be compelled to pursue if 
our desire to stamp out the disease is to 
be realised. It is the realisation of this 
hope becoming an accomplished fact I 
look forward to with every confidence, and 
it is because of this that I have in the 



PREFACE 7 

following pages been guilty of repetition 
in so many instances, which I trust to the 
generosity of my readers to forgive. 

I have found it quite impossible not to 
err in this respect, if error it be, as, deal- 
ing with a subject of such vital importance, 
I feel it is hardly possible to emphasise 
too forcibly those points which, from my 
point of view, bear so essentially upon 
the causation, prevention, and cure of the 
disease under review. 

E. B, 

15, HALF MOON STREET, 
MAYFAIR, W. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

INTRODUCTORY 11 



CHAPTER 

I. HEALTH AT ITS BEST VERSUS CANCER . 19 



II. THE PEEFECTION OF MANHOOD . . 123 

III. CLEANLINESS .... 135 

IV. AN INTERESTING QUESTION . . .143 

V. WHAT IS A COLD ? . . 157 

VI. INFLUENZA . . . . .169 

VII. THE EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL. 183 
VIII. THE ORIGIN AND THERAPEUTICS OF CANCER 225 



10 CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGE 

IX. IS OPERATION JUSTIFIABLE IN CANCER? . 243 



X. THE DIETETICS OP CANCER . . . 251 

XI. THE APPROACHING CONQUEST OF CANCER . 279 

XII. A PROBLEM 301 



INTEODUCTOEY 



Is it not to be regretted that while there 
is so little hesitation in giving publicity to 
evidence that is led in the divorce courts 
and in such cases as the Thaw trial, there 
seems to be erected a sentimental barrier, 
opposing the publication of plain and im- 
portant facts, which, if recognised and 
properly understood, would tend not only 
to ward off disease, but prolong life ? I 
therefore venture to table a protest against 
such prudishness, and in this volume will 
attempt to demolish this crust of false 
modesty, so that my readers may have the 
benefit of knowledge which will prove 
invaluable to them, but which they are at 

present, to a considerable extent, denied. 

11 



12 INTRODUCTORY 

Ours is the only country where such a 
prudish condition of affairs survives, the 
public being the sufferers. This is apparent 
when we acknowledge, as we ought to do, 
that not only would the amount of disease, 
which is so prevalent, be materially modi- 
fied, but the death-rate markedly reduced. 
Were a little more information supplied 
on certain important points which is at 
present not within reach of, or at all events 
not paid sufficient attention to, by the 
general mass of the people, most desirable 
results would speedily follow. 

It is now more than a quarter of a 
century since I first called attention in 
the Lancet which I again refer to later 
on to the fact that constipation is not 
only a disease of serious import, but also 
a most potent factor in predisposing to 
disease of every description. In that paper 
I was able to demonstrate that anaemia, 
so common in young women, and upon the 
existence of which so many diseases 
notably tuberculosis are liable to super- 



INTRODUCTORY 13 

vene, is in 99 per cent, due to this 
cause alone. And no one, who has any 
acquaintance with the subject, will 
deny the fact that it is invariably the 
starting-jpoint of gout, rheumatism, and 
cancer. 

During a lifelong study I have invariably 
ascertained where those diseases were 
present that constipation had been pre- 
existent. 

The views I then expressed, two years 
afterwards, were reiterated in the same 
journal b^a well-known London physician. 
Notwithstanding this, the public to-day are 
little better informed on this vital question 
than they were before the publication of 
these papers. 

When we recognise the fact that 
MetchnikoS one of the greatest bac- 
teriologists of the age has estimated 
that in the intestinal canal there are 
developed, daily, the astounding number 
of 28,000,000,000 of bacteria, can we be 
surprised that with this fauna within us, 



14 INTRODUCTOEY 

if it be retained for an undue length of 
time, its toxic .effect upon the blood will 
prove serious ? It would be unreasonable 
to think otherwise, notwithstanding the 
knowledge we possess, that the evil effects 
of some of these are counteracted by others, 
which are antagonistic to the former. The 
fact, however, remains that the presence of 
these sets up putrefactive changes in the 
contents of the bowel, which results in 
the development of toxins (poisons), which, 
if constipation be present, will speedily be 
absorbed into the blood, producing in it 
changes which are inimical to health. No 
one needs to be told that every organ, 
and every tissue of the body, are dependent 
for their nourishment upon the vital fluid. 
If, then, this is vitiated, as it certainly is 
in these circumstances, does it not stand 
to reason that the functional activity of 
the various organs will be handicapped 
very considerably, and consequently their 
resisting power to disease seriously reduced ? 
The nervous system will probably be the 



INTRODUCTORY 15 

first to manifest the eSects of this con- 
tamination of the blood stream, and this 
will be indicated by depression of spirits, 
irritability of temper, a chilly feeling over 
the body, headache, &c. 

The palpable effects will be a dusky 
complexion, dark rings round the eyes, 
cold feet, bad taste in the morning, foul 
breath, loss of appetite, feeble digestion, 
and disturbed sleep. 

Now if such a state of matters be per- 
mitted to continue for a lengthened 
period, if we persist in neglecting the 
sanitation of the alimentary canal, and 
neglect those dietetic measures which con- 
duce to its hygienic condition, will any 
intelligent person be bold enough to main- 
tain we have any right either to a healthy 
mind or a healthy body ? And why should 
every one not be educated up to the point 
of enabling one to avoid such a con- 
tingency? So far as I can learn the 
young receive no education upon the 
science of hygiene. Time is devoted to 



16 INTRODUCTORY 

instil action in religion, which is right and 
proper, but after our moral culture has 
received the attention deemed essential to 
promote its growth and development, surely 
some thought should be devoted to those 
fundamental principles upon which depend 
a healthy frame and a vigorous old age. 
What ought to be aimed at is instruction 
in the science of hygienics and dietetics, 
with a view to adopting measures which 
shall have a prophylactic (preventive) eSect 
upon disease, and we know that prevention 
is not only better, but much more easily 
accomplished than cure. Moreover, when 
disease has been permitted to assert itself, 
the case must of necessity pass into the 
hands of the doctor. Do not, then, allow it 
to pass into those of the quack. Un- 
fortunately the belief in quackery is born 
of human folly, and will continue to exist 
as long as that endures. The only remedy 
is the spread of scientific light among the 
people. 

Dietetics, as will be readily understood, 



INTRODUCTORY 17 

play a most important part in influencing 
not only the development, but the character 
of intestinal micro-organisms. 

It is beyond doubt that food exerts a 
remarkable influence on the flora of the 
intestines. For example, these organisms 
are vastly more numerous in infants 
receiving their nourishment from cow's 
milk than in those who are suckled by 
their mothers which fact is referred to in 
the following pages. Hence the greater 
amount of gastric troubles prevailing 
amongst children who are reared artificially. 



2 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST VERSUS 
CANCEE 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST v. CANCER 

CHAPTEE I 

HEALTH AT ITS BEST V6TSUS CANCER 

I WONDER if many pause to consider the 
fact for fact it is that so very few die a 
natural death. As a rule it is brought 
about by a slow suicide, the process ex- 
tending over a period of years, more or 
less prolonged according to the mode of 
life pursued by the individual, yet suicide 
all the same. Nature's laws are systemati- 
cally contravened on every hand. Habits 
prejudicial to health and longevity which 
may have been inaugurated and indulged 
in by our ancestors, and adopted by us, 
or, in many instances, acquired by us, are 
persistently being indulged in, not only 

21 



22 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

to our bodily hurt, but also and I say 
this advisedly to our moral detriment. 

Natural History teaches us that the 
normal tenure of the life of an animal 
should extend to eight times that of its 
maturity. Now maturity in man is 
attained at, about, twenty-one years; 
therefore the normal life of man should 
not terminate before 160 years, or even 
beyond that, and disease have nothing to 
do with its termination, for death should 
only consist of an unconscious transition 
from the mortal into an immortal state 
of existence ; the shell of the chrysalis, as 
it were, being left behind, while the dis- 
embodied spirit, traversing the unknown, 
reaches its destined abode. 

As things are at present, this period of 
longevity is never attained, except, perhaps, 
amongst the Bulgarian peasantry, who live 
a simpler life than any other people we 
are acquainted with. Thus proving that 
the human frame was never intended to 
contend against the ill-usage it is con- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 23 

tinuously being subjected to, in consequence 
of errors in diet. 

What we term " High Civilisation " has 
adopted a mode of life and thought which 
quite ignores the fundamental laws, the 
tabernacle of the human body the 
fountain-head of reason must be sub- 
ject to, if its integrity is to be maintained. 
It is the custom of the age to spend 
immense sums upon the study of the 
heavenly bodies and other abstruse pro- 
blems over which we can exercise not the 
slightest control, while the little infor- 
mation obtained is of little practical value 
after it is acquired, for the simple reason 
that it is impossible to apply it to any 
practical purpose. Curiosity may certainly 
be gratified by the theories promulgated, 
but that it can be satisfied, or any benefit 
conferred, is very doubtful. Notwith- 
standing, the study is pursued with an 
ardour which is remarkable, if nothing 
else can be said in its favour, while the 
human frame, which is more complicated 



24 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

and more interesting than any planet, and 
is by far the most valuable asset we 
possess except by a limited number 
receives little or no attention. Indeed, 
a healthy body and a ripe and happy old 
age would appear to count as nothing 
compared to the temporary indulgence in 
luxuries, which would soon cease to appear 
as such were a more simple mode of life 
cultivated and hygienic laws inculcated. 

How few realise the fact that there is 
ample potentiality in man, if he will only 
conform to those laws which have been 
instituted for his guidance, to enable him 
to resist those diseases which wreck his 
health and shorten his life. It was never 
intended that his footsteps should be 
arrested by gout or his joints and muscles 
incapacitated by rheumatism, his blood- 
vessels be the carriers of disease germs, 
or undergo a degeneration which renders 
them liable to rupture. He was never 
intended to end his days in his prime as 
a paralytic, or that his stomach be a source 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 25 

of distress instead of comfort. Yet all 
these results, and many more of an equally 
unwelcome character, might be, and would 
be, avoided were a little more attention 
to, and observance of, Nature's laws to 
enter into his daily routine. 

Man as a rule comes into the world 
a plump, healthy individual, with all 
his organs working harmoniously to- 
gether, and it only requires careful 
attention to enable him to continue 
in his pristine condition, grow up 
to vigorous manhood, and proceed to 
healthy old age. Doubtless he will be 
assailed by many enemies in the shape 
of disease germs, but these he will be 
able to encounter with results favourable 
to himself and he will also be enabled to 
weather the various storms, which he will 
undoubtedly encounter, in the form of 
epidemics, if he be only willing to con- 
form to those laws which a wise Provi- 
dence has laid down for his guidance. 
His body is the ship which is destined 



26 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

to carry him over the sea of life, and he 
is the captain who is responsible for the 
course taken. What would we think of 
the mariner who has been provided with 
a trim, well-built vessel, destined for a 
distant port, who did not take every pre- 
caution against disaster? Would he 
permit his furnace to be supplied with 
improper and useless fuel, his compasses 
to be out of order, or his steering gear 
to be at fault ? Would it be excusable 
were he to neglect to consult his chart 
repeatedly, take his daily reckonings, look 
out for rocks, and consult his barometer, 
so that he may be prepared for, what he 
calls, dirty weather. Otherwise his voyage 
would, sooner or later, come to an untimely 
end, just as the life of a man will who does 
not take advantage of those beneficent and 
easily obeyed instructions laid down for him 
by his Creator, who so constantly manifests 
the keenest interest in his welfare. 

If we consider for a moment those 
substances which are essential to the life 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 27 

of man, viz., air, water, and food, it goes 
without saying that to obtain the most 
satisfactory results these must be pure 
and wholesome. It is essential, however, 
that to be able to obtain satisfactory 
results, the most careful attention be 
devoted to these necessities of our exist- 
ence; that this attention be inaugurated 
at birth by the parents, and continuously 
exercised by them during childhood, and 
that the supervision be uninterrupted until 
the hygienic habits, thus acquired, be 
thoroughly established. 

The first principle to be considered is 
the supply of an abundance of fresh air, 
and the avoidance of stuffy rooms, more 
especially of sleeping apartments. Mothers 
make a great mistake when they suppose 
that an infant is more liable to suffer 
from a free circulation of fresh air than 
an adult. Unfortunately for the child, 
it is a mistake that is almost universally 
made in civilised communities, and 
invariably with disastrous results. 



28 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

I am thoroughly convinced that were 
more common sense displayed in this 
direction, we would in a short time 
cease to hear of tuberculosis, and the 
various chest affections amongst young 
children which have hitherto claimed 
so many victims. No living being can 
possibly maintain its inherent power of 
resisting the attack of disease germs 
and every affection of the air passages 
is due to the invasion of these if it 
is condemned to live in a vitiated atmo- 
sphere ; an atmosphere, moreover, which, 
while it is prejudicial to the vital vigour 
of both animals and plants, thus render- 
ing them a more easy prey to disease, 
has no such debilitating effect upon 
disease organisms, but on the contrary 
would seem to endow them with greater 
potency and virulence. It is only those 
whose vitality has become impaired by a 
persistent disregard of hygienic and dietetic 
laws, who ever need have the slightest fear 
of disease. 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 29 

Man, as a rule, dies of a long process of 
blood-poisoning, if his life is not cut short 
by some acute disease. His organs of 
excretion have been gradually undergoing 
a process of impairment, the consequence 
of an injudicious mode of living, until, 
eventually, they become quite incapable 
of discharging the effete matter which it 
is essential should be uninterruptedly elimi- 
nated from the vital fluid if its integrity 
is to be maintained and life continued. 

Then it must be borne in mind that the 
method of breathing has a great deal to 
do with the preservation of health. The 
natural channel for air to enter the breath- 
ing apparatus is by the nose. This we will 
see exemplified if we observe the breathing 
of an infant. We also know it is the habit 
of all savage races, and animals, to breathe 
by this passage, and it proves beneficial in 
two ways at least. First, the air in its pro- 
gress through the nares, becomes warmed 
before entering the lungs, and second, it is 
freed to a larger extent from impurities that 



30 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

may be contained in the atmosphere, while 
a secretion of the mucous membrane, 
supplementary to that of mucus, named 
mucin, and which possesses antiseptic 
properties, has a destructive effect upon 
disease organisms coming in contact with 
it. Thus it is only possible for a steri- 
lised air to gain access to the lungs when 
the mucous membrane is in a normal con- 
dition. But it is also only possible for 
the secretion of this membrane to continue 
in a normally vigorous condition when an 
otherwise pure atmosphere is supplied, and 
it is only when this is not departed from 
that mucin will be present. Now, as we 
know, any irritant applied to the nostril, 
whether this be in the form of a chemical 
agent, a vitiated atmosphere, or cold, will 
immediately result in a hypersecretion of 
mucus, thrown out to protect the delicate 
membrane from the irritating contents of 
the air inhaled. Immediately, however, 
that the mucus ceases to be normal in 
quantity, the mucin ceases to be co- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 31 

existent, and therefore disease organisms 
are in these circumstances enabled to 
obtain a footing. In consequence of this 
we are able to account for colds being 
contracted in crowded and badly venti- 
lated enclosed spaces, where in all prob- 
ability a draught of cold air also exists, 
which, by reducing the bodily heat, still 
further depresses the vital powers, thus 
favouring the invasion of disease germs.* 
It must be obvious to every one, that 
when one is exposed to cold in the open, 
which invariably produces a more or less 
copious secretion of the mucous membrane 
of the nasal passages, this invariably passes 
off without any ill-effects supervening. 
And the reason is the palpable one that 
the stimulus consists entirely of fresh air, 
cold though it be ; so we may safely con- 
clude that what we designate a cold in the 
head, is not due to cold per se as is popu- 
larly supposed, but to circumstances which 
depress the vital forces, thus rendering the 
* This subject receives special attention in Chap. V. 



32 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

body more sensitive to chill and at the 
same time providing a suitable soil for 
the growth of disease organisms. Now 
a still atmosphere, especially when this is 
associated with an absence of sunlight, is 
always more liable to contamination than 
an atmosphere in motion, and which, if not 
at the moment, at least recently, has been 
exposed to light rays. The former, there- 
fore, provides a suitable nidus for the 
multiplication of microbio organisms. It 
is not difficult, therefore, to estimate the 
value of an airy, thoroughly ventilated and 
well-lighted dwelling, as a prophylactic 
agent ; and were there not in existence 
such a senseless horror of fresh air, 
which, I may add, is altogether engen- 
dered of ignorance, we would very soon 
hear a great deal less of the various chest 
affections which are so prevalent at the 
present day. Cleanliness of the air is quite 
as important as cleanliness regarding food, 
and who would not shudder at the thought 
of unclean food ? 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 33 

We are constantly hearing of people 
suffering from a " chill/' as it is generally 
termed. Sometimes it is designated as a 
chill on the liver whatever that may 
mean; but then we must remember the 
liver is a big organ, therefore it is only 
right that it should bear a lot of blame, 
that is if responsibility is reckoned to be 
commensurate with size, whether it is 
guilty or not. Then we hear of chills 
on the stomach, the lungs, and various 
other organs, which means there has been 
some indiscretion one way or another. 
The blood has become tainted, either by 
vitiated air, contaminated water, unwhole- 
some food, or an unsanitary state of the 
large intestine, when of course the body 
becomes highly sensitive to changes in 
the temperature, and the last straw is a 
current of cold air, which still further pros- 
trates a vitality, already reduced much 
below par, with the result that whatever 
micro-organism happens to be paramount 

at the time, and has already been able 

3 



34 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

to gain an entrance into the citadel, now 
takes possession, claims a hospitality, and 
will take no denial. Nature's recuperative 
forces, however, soon corne into action, 
when the invader is ignominiously expelled 
and in a short time the health of the 
patient is restored. 

Let us hope the evil-doer will take a 
lesson by the mild chastisement that, this 
time, has been inflicted upon him, but let 
him at the same time bear in mind that 
not infrequently the punishment is death. 
Is it not absurd, when we are perfectly 
cognisant of the fact, and have frequent 
experience of it, that the human frame is 
able to withstand any amount of cold, 
to the extent even of becoming benumbed 
by it, without sustaining any evil effects, 
or resulting in what may prove to be a 
serious illness, to attribute this to a passing 
feeling of chilliness ? 

Having considered the art of breathing, 
let us now devote a little attention to 
that of drinking. 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 35 

Drinking is so closely associated with 
health and is not unfrequently a symptom 
of disease that no apology is necessary for 
bringing the subject prominently forward 
for careful consideration. To enable one 
to gain proficiency in the art of drinking, 
a number of physiological facts will require 
to be passed in review. This will become 
apparent when we are reminded that more 
than two-thirds of the weight of the human 
frame is made up of water, and that life 
is dependent upon those vital changes 
which are constantly succeeding each other 
in the various fluids of the body. 

The relative amount of water found in 
the various tissues and secretions varies 
considerably ; the teeth containing only 
10 per cent., whereas the saliva contains 
99-5 per cent, of water. These are the 
two extremes. In bone there is 13 per 
cent, of water, in muscle 75 per cent., 
brain nearly 79 per cent., blood 79'5 per 
cent., bile 88 per cent., milk 88*7 per cent., 
urine 93-6 per cent., and so on. 



36 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

With this information it will not be 
difficult to estimate the importance of 
water as a constituent of the animal frame. 
We have only to drive off the water from 
a tissue such as muscle or tendon to 
find all its characteristics, appearance, and 
properties destroyed. Seeing, then, the 
great preponderance of fluids over solids in 
the animal organism, and the important rdle 
they play, we cease to wonder that hunger 
can be more easily tolerated than thirst, and 
life sustained for a considerable period if 
water alone is supplied in sufficient quantity. 

It has been estimated that an ordinary- 
sized adult will take into his body daily 
about 4J pounds of water and that about 
J pound will be formed by chemical action. 
On the other hand, of the total amount, 
there is excreted from the skin 30 per 
cent., lungs 20 per cent., bowel 4 per 
cent., kidneys 46 per cent. But, of course, 
these proportions will vary in different cir- 
cumstances. For example, in hot weather 
the skin will act more freely and the 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 37 

kidneys will be less active than would be 
the case were the temperature lower, when, 
of course, the conditions will be reversed. 
And as we know thirst is invariably com- 
mensurate with the activity of the skin 
and kidneys, though sometimes, as in 
fever, there is excessive thirst, though 
the functional activity of these important 
organs is then in almost complete abeyance. 
Yet parched nature calls for cold water 
to repair the loss of fluid which is being 
carried off by radiation, for in the circum- 
stances it does not pass by the ordinary 
channels, these, viz., the sweat glands, 
the kidneys and the mucous membrane 
of the lungs, being placed completely hors 
de combat by the poisonous materials, or 
toxins, as they are termed, circulating in 
the blood, and to whose presence there the 
high temperature of fever is due. Fever, 
then, can hardly be described as a disease, 
but rather as a symptom or outcome of 
one form or other of blood-poisoning, these 
varying according to the specific poison 



38 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

present. Various though the causes of 
fever may be, there is one constant effect 
produced, which is an increase of nitro- 
genous products such as uric acid or urea, 
and it is to retention - of the latter in the 
blood that coma so frequently is an accom- 
paniment of the acute febrile condition. 
The art of drinking, then, in such circum- 
stances must be looked upon as of the 
highest importance, as not only the organs 
above mentioned are incapacitated, but 
bile, gastric juice, saliva, &c., cease to be 
secreted. If, then, we can administer fluids 
in such a manner as to dilute the poison 
and reduce the temperature, we will thereby 
succeed in promoting a condition of the 
blood less prejudicial to the functional 
activity of those organs of secretion upon 
which the elimination of impurities from 
the blood entirely depends. And once this 
cleansing process has begun, convalescence 
will speedily be established and will rapidly 
progress if the skin and kidneys are flushed 
by a plentiful supply of fluid and the 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 39 

lungs supplied by an abundance of fresh 
air. 

Now, if the art of drinking is so impor- 
tant in the above circumstances, it is 
equally if not more important in our 
ordinary daily life, as if properly cultivated 
it may and will prove the means of assist- 
ing very materially in the preservation of 
health. The more we encourage the action 
of the skin and the lungs, not only do 
we promote a free escape of heat but 
also of poisonous excretory matter. This, 
of course, can only be accomplished by 
judicious drinking, which will not only 
influence the secretion of the skin and 
lungs which are the principal media for 
regulating the temperature of the body as 
well as being purifiers of the blood but 
of the kidneys also, upon whose healthy 
activity so much depends. 

In dealing with the art of drinking we 
must bear in mind there is also a vice 
of drinking, with which we have nothing 
to do at present, When, then, is the time 



40 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

to drink ? I say any time except during 
meals. The food should never be washed 
down by any other fluid than the saliva. 
Were this rule more strictly observed we 
would hear much less of dyspepsia, and 
fewer people would be overburdened with 
an undue deposit of fat. When the meal 
is finished, the food having been thoroughly 
incorporated with the salivary and gastric 
secretions, you may take what fluid you 
feel inclined for, and there is no limit 
as to quantity. My conviction is we do not 
drink half enough between meals. If we 
keep the skin and kidneys actively em- 
ployed by imbibing freely of non-alcoholic 
beverages and it is impossible to overtax 
them if we confine our drink to what 
nature has provided for us in the way 
of fluid we will be rewarded by enjoying 
all the comforts of a pure and therefore 
healthy blood stream, for the simple reason 
that every organ of the body will benefit 
thereby. The art of drinking may be culti- 
vated with great advantage for two most 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 41 

important purposes at least. The first, 
as will have been inferred from the above 
remarks, to promote health, and the second 
to assist in the restoration of health. 

We should never overlook the fact that 
there is constantly being accumulated in 
the blood not only waste matter resulting 
from chemical changes taking place in the 
upkeep of vital energy, but also toxins 
absorbed from the intestine, these being 
present in larger quantity if constipation 
is coexistent and less so as the sanitary 
condition of the blood approaches per- 
fection. Now the blood can only be freed 
from this noxious material by means of 
the lungs, skin, and kidneys, so it is not 
difficult to see that the more actively 
employed these important organs are kept, 
the healthier the various organs of the body, 
and the individual as a whole, will be main- 
tained. When therefore active exercise is 
withheld, as in sedentary occupations, it 
is not difficult to conceive there will be 
a tendency towards an accumulation of 



42 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

effete matter within the vital fluid, and 
this will be accentuated if the atmosphere 
of the apartment which the person occupies 
becomes vitiated in consequence of defi- 
cient ventilation. Lethargy, loss of appetite 
and dyspepsia will, as a rule, supervene, 
and the health as a whole will sooner or 
later suffer, and if this unhygienic mode 
of life is persisted in, changes in the blood 
will be certain to follow, which in all prob- 
ability will culminate in gout or possibly 
organic mischief of graver import. Now, 
such a catastrophe would be much less 
likely to ensue were the simple precaution 
of drinking from a pint to a pint and a 
half of water during the forenoon and also 
during the afternoon resorted to. It will 
also prove a wise proceeding if men of 
sedentary habits especially would, during 
the process of dressing, slowly sip at least 
a pint of hot water. This would stimulate 
the circulation in the lungs, skin, and 
kidneys, and prove of immense service in 
promoting the secreting power of these 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 43 

important organs, and at the same time 
prepare the stomach for the reception of 
food. While this advice is specially directed 
to those who are deprived of necessary 
exercise, it will also prove of service to 
those who are more fortunately situated. 
Those organs, let me add, can never be 
overworked if they are supplied liberally 
with that fluid which nature has provided 
so liberally for our use. 

On the other hand, when an abundance 
of exercise enters into the daily life, where- 
by the circulation in the skin and mucous 
membrane of the lungs is augmented it 
may be to the full expansion of the net- 
work of blood-vessels which ramify in every 
direction over these surfaces the loss of 
fluid from the blood will create a demand 
for liquids which it will be impossible to 
resist. Thus by flushing the blood by 
means of repeated supplies of water in one 
form or another, while the secreting sur- 
faces are in active operation, the vital 
energy of every organ of the body is bene- 



44 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

fited, as the rnore freely these secreting 
membranes act the greater amount of waste 
material will be eliminated from the vital 
fluid. If, however, the temperature should 
be reduced so far as to interfere to some 
extent with the activity of the sweat 
glands, the benefit of exercise will by no 
means be nullified, as in these circum- 
stances the functional activity of the 
kidneys will receive the stimulus diverted 
from the skin while the lungs will continue 
to act unimpeded. 

That the art of drinking has not received 
the attention it deserves goes without say- 
ing, seeing that not only health may be 
preserved on the one hand and disease 
alleviated on the other by careful study of 
the subject ; and this fact, I fear, has been 
sadly overlooked. Of course, it is not 
obligatory to confine our beverage to water 
as it is provided by nature. It is essential, 
however, that whatever be the source of 
supply this must be uncontaminated. I 
need hardly state that there is even now, 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 45 

though to nothing like the extent what 
formerly was the case, an enormous amount 
of disease contracted from drinking impure 
water. The disappearance of cholera and the 
diminution of typhoid fever and diphtheria 
are entirely due to an improved water supply. 
For the man whose habits are sedentary 
the following routine might with advantage 
be followed : 1. Two tumblerfuls of hot 
water before breakfast, which will, as I 
have mentioned, not only have the effect 
of preparing the stomach for breakfast, but 
will tend to act as a slight laxative and also 
promote a healthy action of the excretory 
organs before mentioned. 2. At breakfast 
a large cupful, or two if desired, of tea 
which has not been infused for more than 
three minutes. This will prove quite 
sufficient to abstract all the aromatic 
constituents of the leaves, which are com- 
paratively innocuous, while the undesirable 
tannin and gummy extracts will be left 
behind, and it is to the latter the injurious 
effects of tea-drinking are chiefly due. I 



46 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

would repeat, however, that this portion of 
the ineal should be left until all the solid 
portion has been disposed of. 3. During 
the forenoon and afternoon either plain or 
aerated water may be the beverage and to 
the amount previously indicated. 4. After 
lunch either a tumblerful of water, a bottle 
of ginger beer, ginger ale, or lemonade, 
soda and milk, or half a pint of cider. 
5. The same after dinner, and 6. Before 
retiring a tumblerful of cold or aerated 
water or milk and soda. Of course there 
will be other fluids partaken of during the 
course of the day. These will consist of the 
watery constituents of the food, of which 
more particular mention may be made of 
milk, fruit, and vegetables, all of which should 
enter to a large extent into the dietary. 

Now, it stands to reason, if we are to 
obtain the full benefit which the lungs, the 
sweat glands and the kidneys are able to 
confer, it will be essential to adopt measures 
to keep them in good working order. The 
lungs, for example, will demand an un- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 47 

limited supply of fresh air. The skin must 
be kept thoroughly cleansed by a bath 
every day, followed by a smart rub down 
with a rough towel. Great advantage will 
also be reaped by a visit to a Turkish bath 
two or three times a week, or, what is not 
a bad substitute, a cabinet bath may be 
used in one's bedroom three or four times 
a week. This should be followed by a 
tepid bath, or a sponge down with tepid 
water, after which great comfort will be 
experienced, to be succeeded by refreshing 
sleep. If there be a tendency to gout or 
rheumatism these hot-air baths will be of 
immense service. 

So much, then, for the art of drinking as 
a preservative of health. Let us now con- 
sider for a little how this may be taken 
advantage of as a restorative to health. 
As a rule we will find that a great propor- 
tion of ill-health has its origin in some 
disorder of the digestive organs, and ample 
experience has taught me that dyspepsia is 
not only one of the commonest complaints 



48 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

that comes under the notice of the phy- 
sician, but also is the origin of a host 
of secondary maladies, a great number of 
these being due to the presence of uric 
acid in the blood. Errors in diet and the 
over-indulgence in stimulants have much to 
answer for in these circumstances. It is 
not, however, my intention to deal with 
dietetics at present, but as uric acid 
poisoning is invariably due to the ignoring 
of nature's demands in this respect, and as 
gout and rheumatism are the direct results, 
it would be hardly fair if I did not call 
attention to the fact. 

Let me, then, point out in what manner 
the art of drinking may prove of service in 
certain disturbances of the stomach, espe- 
cially that condition which is designated 
catarrh. When this is present we know the 
mucous membrane is in a state of subacute 
congestion. The invariable result of this is 
a deficient secretion of gastric juice and an 
excessive secretion of mucus. The conse- 
quence is that when food enters the 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 49 

stomach it does not digest as rapidly as it 
should do. Now, when this is the case 
fermentation is certain to follow, resulting 
in the generation of acid and gas. The 
former will make its presence known by 
acid eructations and the latter by disten- 
sion of the organ. Now, when this gas, or 
flatulence, as it is termed, distends the 
stomach the distress produced does not 
terminate there, but extends to the heart 
and lungs, whose movements are frequently 
considerably impeded, giving rise to palpi- 
tation and breathlessness. It is then im- 
perative that the diet be modified, and 
relief will be afforded by sipping a tumbler- 
ful of hot very hot water about half an 
hour before each meal. 

It would hardly be within the scope of 
this article to enter in detail upon a de- 
scription of the various watering-places 
that are the resort of invalids suffering 
from various complaints. It will, however, 
be found, that at every one of these, the 

physician consulted will give quite as much 

4 



50 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

attention to the diet of the patient as to 
the water he is to drink. But drinking of 
the waters is a most important part of the 
treatment, and this is all directed to the 
flushing of the various excretory organs. 

That the art of drinking in these cir- 
cumstances is most valuable will, I think, 
appeal to every one, but when we come to 
realise that the necessity of visiting such 
resorts might have been obviated had we 
cultivated it as a preventive measure, we 
are bound to admit the paramount import- 
ance of acquiring as great skill in utilising 
this art as it is possible to attain. 

Permit me to add that while one cannot 
but admit that the art of drinking, when 
thoroughly mastered, will prove a valuable 
factor in dealing with those maladies which 
are the outcome of a vitiated blood stream 
and there are few diseases which are not 
dependent to a greater or lesser extent to 
this cause it must be conceded that the 
treatment of disease is a much more com- 
plicated process than its prevention. It 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 51 

therefore will be imperative, when disease 
is an established fact, that the patient 
immediately places him or herself under the 
care of a competent medical adviser and on 
no account to rely upon his own resources. 

The next subject that claims our atten- 
tion is that of food, and I need hardly 
refer to the fact that there exists a variety 
of opinion on this subject. None however 
will, I venture to say, deny that the 
custom of the day is to eat too much, 
thus overtaxing the organs of digestion 
and assimilation to an extent which is 
highly prejudicial to health. Not only is 
too much eaten, but a very large majority, 
unfortunately, indulge in foodstuffs which 
are contra-indicated by our requirements, 
and which our digestive organs are unable 
to utilise as nourishment, the result being 
that the intestinal canal is constantly 
overloaded with effete and readily decom- 
posable material. In consequence of this, 
the lower bowel never ceases to be the 
breeding-place of innumerable noxious, 



52 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

offensive, and dangerous micro-organisms. 
By their means highly toxic materials are 
constantly being generated, and are, without 
intermission, as continually being absorbed 
into and polluting the blood stream. 

I never look into one of our ordinary 
restaurants without commiserating the 
deluded frequenters of these establish- 
ments, who are loading their stomachs 
with luscious, unnecessary, and unwhole- 
some mixtures, thereby committing, from 
my point of view, slow but certain 
suicide. This may appear strong lan- 
guage, but nevertheless it is too true. 

How does an engineer act if he aims at 
preserving the efficiency of his engine, and 
obtaining the best results from it ? Does 
he not first of all make it his business to 
make himself intimately acquainted with 
its construction? Why, then, is there so 
much indifference displayed, by almost 
every one, to the various component parts 
of the most important of all machines 
that of the human body? so that one 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 53 

may anticipate, with certainty, realising 
the very best results. What would one 
think of an engineer who failed to keep 
every part of his engine perfectly clean, 
and attend to his lubricators, with a view 
of avoiding wear and tear to the fullest 
extent? Then, with a view of extracting 
as much power as possible, he prefers 
to supply his boilers with the purest 
water, and thus avoid fouling the parts 
which provide the energy. Again he 
employs the best fuel, knowing that it 
will consume freely, and leave the smallest 
amount of waste material or ash. He 
knows full well that if his bunkers are 
filled with rubbish in place of good coal 
the power of the engine will be dimin- 
ished pro rata, and the work of the 
stokers unavoidably increased. And what 
would an observer think if he saw the 
furnace choked up with debris? Is it to 
be thought for a moment, that if this is 
not thoroughly raked out, and the furnace 
constantly kept free from this useless 



54 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

stuff, that the fire will burn freely, and 
thus be enabled to convey sufficient 
energy to the water in the boilers ? 
Certainly not. And just as the starting- 
point of the power which drives an engine 
is the fuel, so is wholesome food essential 
to the maintenance of health and life in 
man. He requires complete combustion 
just as much as any other machine does, 
and it is equally important that our 
various organs are supplied with an un- 
contaminated blood supply as that the 
boilers of an engine are supplied with 
pure water and the best of fuel. More- 
over, it is indispensable that, as in the 
case of the engine, the utmost cleanliness 
both of our persons, clothes, and environ- 
ment be observed. 

A great display of ignorance on the 
food question has of late flooded the daily 
press. Men, who have made it quite ap- 
parent by their remarks, that they have 
no practical knowledge of the subject, 
have posed as authorities on dietetics, 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 55 

and whose advice cannot but have had a 
most pernicious influence. 

I wonder if these would-be advisers 
have ever given even a passing glance to 
the construction of the human teeth, or 
compared them with those of other 
animals whose habits are well known, and 
which habits are never, of the animal's 
own accord, departed from. Or have 
they ever devoted any attention to the 
digestive apparatus of the human being ; 
or has habit supplanted their intelligence, 
and their palate obtained so complete a 
mastery over them and they have be- 
come so enslaved to it that their com- 
mon sense has thereby been blighted? 
Such certainly would seem to be the 
case, and, as a consequence, millions of 
our fellow - creatures are at the present 
day suffering from diseases which other- 
wise would have been non-existent. 
Surely such a state of affairs should prove 
sufficient to rouse one out of one's 
lethargy and indifference, and direct 



56 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

attention to a subject of the most vital 
interest. 

The construction of our teeth clearly 
indicates the use they were originally 
ordained to be put to. They were never 
intended to crush bones and tear up 
flesh as the carnivora do, but are, what 
Solomon has designated them, "grinders," 
and if we would employ them as such 
upon the food provided for man and other 
animals whose teeth resemble ours, and give 
them plenty of work to do, there would 
soon cease to be so much necessity for the 
dentist, and I am afraid the doctor would 
also suffer. Ease is the condition natural 
to every member of the animal kingdom, 
not ^s-ease, and, as I have observed before, 
disease, as a rule, is Nature's reprimand for 
disobedience to her commands. 

The arrangement and formation of the 
teeth and jaws of man clearly points out 
the kind of food the Creator intended for 
our nourishment. Carnivorous animals 
never masticate their food. Moreover, 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 57 

they could not do so if they wished, so 
they bolt it in lumps, and leave the 
stomach to do its best with it. We must 
bear in mind, however, that raw meat, 
with its vital principle still existing with- 
in it, its albumen, nuclein, and natural 
salts uninjured by heat, is a very much 
more easily digested article than when it 
is transformed by cooking into rank, dead 
matter. I wonder how a lion or other 
carnivora would get along with a certain 
Knight's sirloin, or mutton chops in the 
condition he advocates they should be 
eaten by his fellow-men ? I have no 
hesitation in predicting they would be 
dead in six weeks. Now man's teeth, as 
well as those of all other herbivorous and 
frugivorous animals, are constructed first 
of all to cut the food, hence the incisor 
teeth are provided for the purpose; after 
which the molars, or grinders, come into 
play in mastication, during the process of 
which the food is mixed thoroughly with 
saliva, and converted into a semi-fluid 



58 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

condition, at the same time transforming 
its starchy constituents into glucose. 

The course Nature intended to be 
followed by animals of every description 
is pursued by every member of the animal 
kingdom except man, who certainly ought 
to know better. He doubtless imagines 
he is improving upon Nature by destroy- 
ing the vital principle of his food by heat, 
thus rendering it not only more difficult 
of digestion, less nutritious, and therefore 
making it necessary to partake of a much 
greater bulk to obtain the amount of 
nourishment necessary to keep his body 
and soul together. Does he forget that 
at the same time he is overtaxing his 
digestive organs to an undue extent ? 
Moreover, that in the process he also 
succeeds in loading the intestine with an 
undue amount of effete and highly de- 
composable material, which undergoes a 
dangerous putrefactive change in the large 
intestine, giving rise to innumerable enter- 
otoxins, liable to be absorbed by the blood- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 59 

vessels, and thus positively fosters disease. 
Are we not conscious of the innocence of 
the odour of the excrement of all herbi- 
vorous animals, compared with that of their 
fellow-creature, man? Moreover, do we 
not perceive that the food they subsist 
upon, and the freedom from disease they 
enjoy, together with the immense size in 
many instances they attain, and the 
strength and endurance they develop, that 
their natural food is ample for all their 
needs ? It is only when for their natural 
food an unsuitable artificial diet is sub- 
stituted, and their environment altered, 
that they become victims of disease. 
What would be the result, think you, if 
cattle were fed upon boiled grass, in which 
every element of life had been destroyed ? 
Why, even children who are fed upon 
sterilised milk are thereby rendered prone 
to scurvy, rickets, and anaemia. No; if 
health and longevity are to be promoted 
we must obey implicitly the dictates of 
Providence, which has quite sufficiently 



60 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

cooked our food by the sun's rays, rather 
than undo what Nature has accomplished 
by her own perfect methods. The vital 
principle of all vegetable matter and its 
nutritive value, as well as its digestibility, 
is seriously impaired when it is exposed 
to a temperature of 140 Fahr. It 
stands to reason then, that if we desire 
to obtain the best results of our food, it 
should never be subjected to a higher 
temperature than this. An exception, 
however, may possibly be made in those 
vegetables which are chiefly made up 
of farinaceous material, such as potatoes 
and cereals, but even these would 
be found, not only to be more nutritious 
and more digestible were their vital 
properties left intact. Why, the most 
important constituents of vegetables are 
thrown down the sink, and only the mush 
left for the table, when the prevalent 
method of treating them is adopted. 
Every soluble portion, including the im- 
portant salts they contain and which are 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 61 

essential to nourishment, is removed by 
cooking. 

It is no wonder, therefore, that unthink- 
ing people place such a light value upon 
vegetable food. Another fallacy consists 
in the impression that flesh food contains 
more nourishment in a concentrated form 
than vegetables or fruit or cheese, eggs, 
and milk. To prove the absurdity of this 
let me ask you to refer to the table on 
p. 62, leaving out of consideration the 
greater difficulties the stomach is com- 
pelled to contend against when cooked flesh 
meat is substituted for uncooked vegetables, 
fruit, nuts, milk, eggs, and cheese. 

A glance at this table will make it 
evident to any one of ordinary intelli- 
gence that butcher meat, after all, is not 
richer in protein than many substances 
derived from the vegetable kingdom, and 
in this respect is considerably inferior to 
cheese, and what is of vital importance, 
it is, when cooked, much more difficult 
of digestion than the other foodstuffs 



62 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 



FOODSTUFFS. 


Water. 


Protein. 


i 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


i 


Fuel Value, 
per Ib. 




Per 

Cent. 


Per 

Cent. 


Per 

Cent. 


Per 

Cent. 


Per 

Cent. 


Calories. 


Loin of beef . . 


70'8 


24-6 


3-7 





1-3 


615 


Almonds .... 


4-8 


21-0 


54-9 


17-3 


2-0 


3,030 


Walnuts 
Y Cheese 


2-5 
31-6 


18-4 

28-8 


64-4 
35-9 


13-0 
0-3 


1-7 
3-4 


3,300 
2,055 


tx Eggs . . 


73-7 


13-4 


10-5 




ro 


720 


IX Milk 


87 


3-3 


4-0 


5*0 


0-7 


325 


Cabbage 


91-5 


1-6 


0-3 


3-3 


1-0 


145 


V Potatoes 

V Onions . . 


78-3 

87-6 


2-2 
1.6 


0-1 
0-3 


18-4 
9-9 


1-0 
0-6 


385 
225 


\/ Artichokes .. 


79-5 


2-6 


0-2 


16-7 


1-0 


365 


Figs, dried . . 


18-8 


4-3 


0-3 


74-2 


2-4 


1,475 


Apples, dried 


28-1 


1-6 


2-2 


66-1 


2-0 


1,350 


Apples, fresh 


84-6 

77.4 


0-4 
1-3 


0-5 
1-6 


14-2 
19-2 


0-3 
0-5 


290 
450 

















A calorie is the amount of heat necessary to raise 1 kilo- 
gramme of water 1 degree Cent. 



enumerated in the table. Moreover, it is 
deficient in those agents which are essen- 
tial to the maintenance of animal heat, 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 63 

upon which we know life is quite as 
dependent as upon proteids. Further- 
more, as I have pointed out, the effete 
matter derived from flesh food undergoes 
a much more oSensive, and therefore 
more dangerous, putrefactive change in 
the intestines than that which is the 
residue of vegetables or fruits. 

I have omitted to include in this table 
peas, beans, lentils, and other varieties 
of pulse, which contain not only a large 
percentage of every substance that the 
various tissues of the body depend upon 
for nourishment, but in such beautifully 
conceived proportions that they are capable 
of being adapted to every circumstance 
in which man may happen to be situated, 
either as regards climate, occupation, or 
condition of life. 

Dr. Haig has condemned a great 
number of these articles containing a 
considerable amount of protein, because 
he holds they also contain uric acid. 
Now I am not aware that any vege- 



64 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

table or fruit contains any such sub- 
stance as uric acid, though pulse certainly 
abounds with chemical elements from 
which uric acid and many other un- 
desirable substances may be evolved under 
certain conditions. And there can be no 
doubt that were there no difference in 
the food value of products derived from 
cooked and uncooked vegetables, Dr. 
Haig would be quite justified in dis- 
countenancing the use of vegetables con- 
taining a large amount of proteids in cases 
where there is a tendency for uric acid 
to accumulate in excess within the blood. 
There is, however, a mighty difference 
between cooked and uncooked articles of 
this description. In the former they 
have been transformed from living into 
rank, dead matter, abounding in nitro- 
genous material, capable of undergoing 
rapid fermentation both outside and inside 
the body, and therefore readily con- 
vertible into uric acid, and, as a matter 
of fact, the conditions in such circum- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 65 

stances are highly favourable to this 
chemical change taking place. The reason 
for this is not difficult to decipher, 
when we come to know that the vital 
principle of the article has been destroyed 
by the heat employed, while the impor- 
tant chemical elements have either been 
washed away or transformed into useless 
insoluble, and therefore profitless com- 
pounds. 

As I have before stated, cooked vege- 
tables are much more difficult to digest 
than those which Nature had previously 
brought to perfection. Their nutritive 
properties have also been sadly inter- 
fered with. Therefore fermentation of 
these is liable to commence in the 
stomach ; for whenever digestion does not 
proceed, fermentation invariably takes its 
place. Then there always remains a 
greater proportion of waste material. 
This being rejected by the stomach, 
thereafter finds its way into the lower 
bowel, there to undergo further pute- 



66 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

fractive changes. This gives rise to 
noxious fluids and gases, which will be 
absorbed into the blood. 

Now, when these circumstances prevail 
they will prove favourable to uric acid 
making its appearance. This is to be 
accounted for by the material undergoing 
a chemical change, due to fermentation 
being set up by the presence in the blood 
of a microscopic fungus, named Saccharo- 
mycis, one of the products of which change 
is uric acid. This micro-organism is in- 
variably present in the blood in rheu- 
matic, gouty, and cancerous subjects. It 
is, however, highly sensitive to, and 
readily destroyed by, the salicylates, and 
would seem also to be unable to exist 
when the blood is invigorated, by the 
presence within it of the vital principle 
of uncooked vegetables and fruit, and this 
notwithstanding the fact that they con- 
tain a large proportion of protein. I 
therefore venture to predict that if, in- 
stead of discarding those highly nourish- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 67 

ing articles, we would partake of them 
in the condition Nature has provided 
them for us we would speedily be 
freed from the presence of uric acid in 
our blood, together with the evil effects 
it produces upon every tissue of the body, 
especially those of the joints and nervous 
apparatus, where it gives rise to pain in 
both instances. 

Nuclein is secreted by every cell of the 
animal body, and is essential to the main- 
tenance of its health. Not only is this 
the case with regard to the cellular 
tissues, but it performs a most impor- 
tant office in providing nourishment and 
stimulus to the white corpuscles of the 
blood and to the nervous system, and, with 
the view of supplementing the quantity of 
nuclein, an extra amount is supplied by 
certain glands, such as the thyroid, liver, 
spleen, &c. If, however, the physiological 
activity of these glands is adversely in- 
fluenced by their receiving a vitiated blood 
supply it will not be difficult to perceive 



68 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

that every cell and tissue of the body 
will in consequence suffer, and the 
general health thereby be deteriorated. 

Now the blood stream can only be 
maintained in a pure condition in the 
presence of an unpolluted air, water, and 
food supply, and the continuance of a 
perfect sanitary condition of the large 
intestine. It is therefore of primary im- 
portance that these conditions be fulfilled 
to the letter. It is our duty, then, to 
guard against any infringement of sani- 
tary laws, and adopt a diet which nature 
has allotted to us for our maintenance in 
health, the chief of which is derived from 
the vegetable kingdom. That such pro- 
ducts are essential to our well-being is 
apparent on every hand, but, as I have 
before insisted upon, their nutritive value 
must not be destroyed by their being sub- 
jected to a temperature of over 140 Fahr., 
above which heat their nourishing proper- 
ties are to a very large extent reduced, as 
well as their digestibility seriously inter- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 69 

fered with. As we have seen, the value 
of food is measured by the amount of 
nutriment it is able to afford, and the 
rapidity by which it can be disposed of by 
the digestive apparatus, but in uncooked 
vegetables, fruit, eggs, and cheese, there 
is also present an appreciable amount 
of nuclein, which I am convinced is the 
vital principle of plants as well as animals. 
When this is taken into the stomach, and 
thence finds its way into the blood, it 
becomes a valuable adjunct to the nuclein 
secreted by the various organs referred to. 
Cooking, however, destroys this, as well as 
detracts from the other vitalising compo- 
nent parts of the articles under considera- 
tion. Their intrinsic merits, therefore, are 
to a large extent destroyed, and, pro rata, 
their value diminished. 

When we take into account that the 
nutritive value of peas, beans, lentils, 
nuts, cheese, and many other articles are 
much richer in protein than butcher meat, 
and, moreover, abound in other valuable 



70 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

properties which are either absent, or con- 
tained to a very limited extent in flesh 
meat, have we, knowing the beneficial 
effects of the former and the evil conse- 
quences of the latter, any justifiable reason 
for preferring a carnivorous to a rational 
diet? From my point of view it is, to put it 
mildly, a reckless disregard of common sense. 
It is quite unnecessary for me to refer 
to the Divine ordinance on the subject, 
though this ought to be sufficient for our 
guidance. It has, however, I am sorry to 
say, been characteristic of man since his 
creation, notwithstanding his many advan- 
tages, to disregard in no small measure 
the dictates of his Creator. Had he, how r - 
ever, only obeyed that one mandate, which 
indicated the nature of the food he was 
intended to rely upon as his daily portion, 
I am quite convinced that there would be 
less crime, less immorality, less drunken- 
ness, less insanity, and no disease to 
speak of, and most certainly cancer 
would never have been heard of. 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 71 

Moreover, it would be a move in the 
right direction were lunatics debarred 
altogether from the use of butcher meat, 
when we would speedily see a consider- 
able amelioration in their condition. 

Such treatment would appear to have 
been adopted in ancient times, and to 
have proved eminently successful, as ex- 
emplified in the case of King Nebuchad- 
nezzar, whose mind becoming deranged was 
quite restored by means of a vegetable diet. 

I am quite convinced that a simple, 
natural diet, while it affords all the 
nourishment the human frame is able to 
assimilate with the best results, in every 
instance promotes a higher moral tone in 
those who rely upon it than would be the 
case were a flesh diet indulged in. More- 
over, if a rational dietary be substituted for 
the unwholesome indulgence in the flesh 
of animals, the vice of drunkenness, and 
crime of every description, would cease to 
debase society to anything like the extent 
which at present prevails. I ask, then, 



72 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

are these advantages, not to mention the 
great benefits that would be conferred 
upon the health of the body, not suffi- 
cient to induce every one to fall in with 
Nature's decrees ? 

Were it necessary to quote Scripture in 
support of my views, no difficulty would 
present itself, and it needs no assurance 
from me to substantiate the fact that no 
harm has ever been visited upon man by 
implicit obedience to its mandates. If the 
Creator had intended that man should 
not obey the physiological laws He 
ordained, with the view of enabling man 
to enjoy to the full the life He had con- 
ferred upon him, as an animal, with the 
mental faculties superadded, He would not 
have indicated the food upon which the 
health and sustenance of the most wonder- 
ful product of His creative power was 
intended to subsist. It is all very well 
to refer to many passages in the Bible 
which relate instances of the depravity in 
man, the which induced him to depart 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 73 

from God's commands. We must bear in 
mind that the Bible is a strictly truth- 
ful narrative, and that the Almighty, when 
He lays down a law, leaves the matter 
afterwards to man's intelligence. We 
would never for a moment conclude that 
because the worship of idols is frequently 
referred to in the Scriptures, that we are 
entitled to adopt idolatry. Our domestic 
animals all of which obey their Creator's 
injunctions as to diet, and who therefore 
are superior to us in that respect were 
given to us, not to be mercilessly mur- 
dered, so that their flesh might be utilised 
to give indulgence to our depraved appe- 
tites, and poison our blood, but to be 
useful servants. 

When God created man in His own 
image, and implanted His spirit within 
him, He told him distinctly what his food 
was to consist of, and then left him to 
his own free will ; and now we see the con- 
sequence of disobedience, in disease, crime, 
and early death. 



74 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

Deprive an animal of its natural food, 
and substitute something which is foreign 
to its physiological necessities, and will it 
retain its health, think you ? Certainly 
not. And even though you do not confine 
it to a diet absolutely at variance with 
its natural pabulum, but permit it to 
have a certain proportion of what Nature 
intended to supply its bodily necessities, 
we will find that the health of the 
creature and its longevity will suffer pro 
rata. And this applies to man as well as 
to animals, though man has the advan- 
tage, in that experience has taught him 
the use of remedies which have the effect 
of giving relief to the symptoms of ill- 
health which he has voluntarily brought 
upon himself, but, which, through the 
wonderful recuperative power of Nature, 
together with the abstinence which has 
been enforced by the rebellion of the 
digestive organs induced by indiscretion 
will possibly result in the re-establish- 
ing of health. Mark me, however, every 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 75 

violation of hygienic law, though appar- 
ently pardoned after a slight penalty has 
been exacted, will assuredly leave inde- 
libly behind its impress upon the vitality 
of the culprit. 

Who, I would like to ask, are the most 
robust and healthy people we know of ? 
Are they the civilised nations, or rather, 
the large proportion of them, these being 
meat eaters ? Most assuredly not. In- 
deed, if we glance at the history of 
disease we will find that it was almost 
unknown amongst the aborigines of various 
countries until they were brought in con- 
tact with civilised man, which has almost 
decimated these children of Nature. Is it 
not lamentable that the mode of life of 
our forefathers and their contempt for 
those laws, which were enacted to enable 
them to keep their bodies in a perfect 
condition, should have been followed by 
such disastrous results, all of which might 
have been obviated ? Yet the lesson, 
which ought to have been sufficient to 



76 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

teach wisdom, though repeated daily for 
ages past, has been systematically ignored, 
with the dire result that what is termed 
civilisation has proved to be a hotbed 
of disease and degeneracy. The most 
vigorous, hardy, healthy, and longest-lived 
people on the earth are those who have 
implicitly observed Nature's decrees as 
to diet, and it is only when their contact 
with their more enlightened (sic) fellow- 
men have induced them to adopt degene- 
rate habits that their healthy standard 
has suffered, and that, as a rule, most 
disastrously. 

Butcher meat has no advantage in 
maintaining health ; indeed the very con- 
verse is the case, notwithstanding what 
its advocates say in its favour. It cer- 
tainly has the effect of exciting the 
passions and demoralising the consumer, 
but that its consumption, as it has been 
averred, imparts valour, endurance, or 
brain power is not in accordance with 
fact. That it has the effect of improving 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 77 

the beauty of woman or the valour of 
man is another fallacy. On the contrary, 
it brings on old age prematurely, thus 
causing the freshness and beauty of youth 
to pale before its time and valour to vanish 
in decay. Why, the bravest, most ener- 
getic, and plucky of nations are those who 
live a simple life. Take the Sikhs of 
India or the Japanese for examples ; then 
look at those meat eaters, the Laplanders, 
the Esquimaux, and the natives of Terra- 
del-Fuego, and ask yourselves if you would 
like to depend upon them as soldiers or 
teachers, or can you admire them as 
specimens of humanity ? 

To come nearer home, we will find that 
we have ample opportunity of demon- 
strating the superiority of a rational diet 
over that of one largely composed of the 
flesh and internal organs of animals. In 
every instance where a comparison has 
been made, where physical endurance was 
being estimated, it has been placed beyond 
doubt that the meat eater has failed and 



78 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

the vegetarian succeeded. Let me quote 
from a letter written by a medical man, 
who gives his experience as follows : 

" I was very strong and athletic as a 
young man, and a ( glutton for work.' I 
ate everything that came along and drank 
moderately everything oSered me pro- 
vided it was good. So strong and well 
was I that I rowed and ran long races 
at thirty-eight, after severe training. A 
few years afterwards I began to lose 
energy to put on fat and to get constant 
neuralgias, catarrhs, sciaticas, spots of 
eczema, and which finally culminated in 
an acute attack of gout in both big toes 
at forty-seven. 

"I immediately gave up meat, fish, fowl, 
tea, coffee, cocoa, peas, lentils, oatmeal, 
and eggs ; in fact, any food containing 
xanthines,* and I have never had a touch 

* Had he, however, taken his peas and lentils and 
eggs under-cooked or uncooked, he would have found 
these to be quite innocent and wholesome also. 
"Xanthines" which are referred to may mean any- 
thing of a yellow colour, but here evidently the term 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 79 

of gout or rheumatism since, never a 
neuralgia or spot of eczema ; my energy 
began to return about three years after I 
had been on this diet, and now I am full 
of go and can last on the golf links better 
than many a younger man, especially in 
hot weather. I live chiefly on bread, 
cheese, macaroni, vegetables, and fruit, 
and drink a brandy-and-soda, when I want 
to, which is generally in the evening, 
once or twice a week. 

" These are the facts. Now, can any 
one tell me if tuberculosis is prevalent 
amongst the Japanese, who eat small 
quantities of fish ; the Sikhs, who are 
non-meat eaters ; and the Italian peasants, 
who are non-meat eaters ? The energy 
and intelligence of these peoples are too 
well known to discuss." 

And his experience is that of many. 

It has been argued that long persist- 

is meant to apply to all vegetables containing an 
abundance of flesh-forming material, and therefore 
contain, only when cooked, however, ingredients from 
which uric acid is derivable. 



80 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

ence in incorrect and unnatural habits will 
result in the body accommodating itself to 
these. This, however, is a great mistake. 
The prevalence of disease and early deaths 
prove this absolutely. 

Mr. Oilman Low, of New York, limits 
his bill of fare to vegetable and fruits in 
their elementary condition and he does 
not vary his diet a great deal yet he was 
able, in the presence of several witnesses, 
to lift one million pounds in thirty-four 
minutes, lifting one thousand pounds at a 
time. Here we have the experience which 
constitutes an authority. Now I ask, Can 
any one who is a flesh eater quote an 
authority of equal value ? Every success- 
ful athlete will answer, No. 

So far as I can judge, the majority of 
mankind display a greater amount of 
anxiety to gratify the palate than to 
satisfy hunger. The result is that whole- 
some and readily digested natural food is 
ignored, and its place taken by so-called 
luxuries, which are, with few exceptions, 





HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 81 

made up of ingredients which may truth- 
fully be described as masked poisons. 

What I would designate as the purpose 
of food is to furnish material calculated to 
supply the necessary vital energy to the 
various tissues of the animal economy, 
and renewing these as they are worn 
out by physiological processes. Ingested 
material, which does not fulfil these re- 
quirements, does not come under this 
category, and if, therefore, it is consumed, 
it must necessarily be excreted at the ex- 
pense of vital energy, and, therefore, only 
succeeds in unduly harassing the digestive 
and eliminating organs, thus producing a 
prejudicial effect upon the health. In the 
case of animals we do not find them 
eating anything that comes in their way, 
as man does. They, without hesitation 
and with decision, reject that which in- 
stinct teaches them is unsuitable, and 
only will accept that which is suitable to 
their requirements. Man, on the other 

hand, would seem to receive into his 

6 



82 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

stomach any kind of conglomeration of 
articles, however unsuitable they may 
prove to be, if only they can be made to 
appear pleasant to the eye and savoury 
to the palate. What chemist, I wonder, 
would care to stake his reputation upon 
an attempt to define the component ingre- 
dients of a Lord Mayor's banquet, or 
what guest would consent to partake of 
it if he was cognisant of the various 
manipulations the concoctions had under- 
gone prior to the seductive appearance 
they have assumed when they emerge 
from the cook's laboratory ? Now, Nature 
does not require to condescend to any 
such tactics in providing for our daily 
wants. The habitual indulgence, however, 
in extraneous material has perverted our 
taste for natural food, and therefore we 
are liable to revolt against it at first, but 
rest assured this revulsion will soon dis- 
appear, to be replaced in consequence of 
the appetite, and the palate also, demand- 
ing that which Nature has so amply 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 83 

provided for our use, and to the exclusion 
of all that a vitiated taste has hitherto 
induced us to substitute for Nature's 
provisions. 

When this desirable state of matters 
has become established, and the proper 
dietary has been adopted, so that the 
actual wants of the body are provided for, 
and the vital energy of the various organs 
developed to the full, a new lease of life 
will, with its adoption, appear to have 
been inaugurated. The decrepit martyr 
to gout and rheumatism a martyrdom of 
his own creation, however will throw his 
crutches to one side, and rejoice again in 
the legitimate use of his limbs. The 
emaciated and ill-natured dyspeptic will 
shout for joy, in the consciousness that 
his stomach is no longer a source of pain 
and disturbance to him, but that, on the 
contrary, it has been transformed into a 
source of comfort and pleasure, while his 
nervous depression and irritability of 
temper will have subsided beneath the 



84 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

tide of good health, which has now com- 
menced, and will continue to flow, over- 
whelming in its flood the various maladies 
which have hitherto menaced his health 
and life. It is unfortunately the tendency 
of the age to give heed to men holding a 
prominent position in Society, notwith- 
standing the fact that they have not the 
slightest practical acquaintance with the 
subject they may be dealing with. In this 
way frequently the public are led astray 
and reform retarded. We have at least 
two notable instances of this of recent 
date. One of these has advocated a diet 
which experience daily teaches is a pregnant 
source of disease and early death, while 
the other has made every effort to boom 
an alleged cure for cancer, which, per se, 
has proved a complete failure, and thus 
has been the means of shaking the confi- 
dence of the public in measures which, 
based upon rational principles, have proved 
eminently successful. 

The digestive organs of man, from the 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 85 

teeth downwards, clearly indicate the 
nature of the kind of nourishment that 
the human body is intended to rely upon, 
if health and longevity are to be its 
portion, and assistance given to enable 
man to retain his morality and mental 
faculties in the best condition possible. 
We are told that " the wages of sin is 
death," and I have no hesitation in 
declaring that gluttony is one of the prime 
incentives to sin. What is the use of our 
praying " Lead us not into temptation," 
when we voluntarily, every time we dis- 
obey the Divine injunction as to diet, 
encourage the tendency to lapse into evil 
ways. This may appear to be rather 
severe censure to mete out, but unfortu- 
nately we are surrounded by ample 
proof of the truth of my words. 

The evidence at hand, and experience, 
go to prove that disease is promoted, and 
death accelerated by persistent disobedience 
of dietetic laws. Permit me to draw 
attention to the following statement by 



86 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

one who speaks from personal experience ; 
and I could quote innumerable similar 
instances. 

" As a meat eater I had poor health 
and finally a serious nervous break-down. 
For nearly five years I have lived almost 
entirely on cereals, fruits, and nuts. I 
can do twice as much, mentally and 
physically, as I used to do ; and, more- 
over, I now know, as only one who has 
experienced it can know, that the physical 
change from the stimulating to the non- 
stimulating diet may lead the way to 
a far more important mental and moral 
change, altering the whole outlook on life. 

"I ask the public to believe that those 
who intelligently advocate diet reform are 
leading them upwards to a better and a 
happier state, and that those who would 
lead them along the old paths are leading 
them downward to the abyss of misery 
and wretchedness." 

Having discussed pretty fully the im- 
portance of a natural diet in relation to 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 87 

health, I now, in conclusion, desire to draw 
attention to the importance of obedience 
to those hygienic and sanitary injunctions 
with which we are more or less familiar, 
but which I fear we are sometimes prone 
to treat with an amount of indifference 
which is not to be commended. In the 
early eighties, as I have already stated 
in my prefatory notes, I published a paper 
in the Lancet, in which I pointed out 
the serious effects which were liable to be 
coincident with constipation, and many 
other diseases, which, if not all due to 
its existence, were at least more liable 
to occur when it was present than when 
the bowels were in a healthy state of 
activity. 

Two years afterwards the late Sir Andrew 
Clark followed in the same journal with 
a paper confirming my views in every 
particular. 

It is all very well to say one's bowels are 
in good working order, because there is a 
daily evacuation. The question is, was the 



88 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

evacuation complete, and was it not unduly 
delayed ? That is, had it not been retained 
in the colon for an undue length of time, 
and thus permitted absorption of putrid 
material into the blood? If so, this will 
be evidenced by the stool being hard, and 
more difficult to pass, and therefore there 
is justifiable suspicion that mischief is 
being hatched. Now butcher meat has 
not only the effect of giving rise to most 
pernicious and offensive material, charged 
as it is with ingredients liable to undergo 
noxious decomposition, but it also tends, to 
no small extent, to induce constipation, 
with, in the circumstances, far-reaching 
injurious effects upon the blood stream, 
thereby encouraging the advent of disease. 
A vegetable and fruit diet, on the other 
hand, promotes a healthy action of the 
colon, and, when supplied in their natural 
condition, convey ample nourishment, with- 
out the accompaniment of any prejudicial 
effect upon the blood. Moreover, many 
vegetables, such as peas, beans, lentils, and 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 89 

the like, not to mention nuts and almonds, 
contain quite as much flesh-forming material 
as butcher meat, and they have the ad- 
vantage of being more easily digested and 
assimilated when thoroughly emulsionised 
in the mouth. 

Every necessity of the human body is 
supplied by a combination of plants and 
fruits, in which nuts are included. Suffi- 
cient testimony is borne to the truth of this 
in the strength and agility displayed by the 
anthropoids, whose teeth and organs of 
digestion are identical with ours. The 
gorilla, for example, subsists entirely on 
these simple foods, and so great is its 
strength that it can with the greatest ease 
twist a rifle-barrel into a shapeless mass, 
and there is no evidence that, in its natural 
state, it ever suffers from disease. Indeed, 
argue as we will, we cannot get rid of 
the fact that disease, with perhaps the 
exception of malaria and similar parasitic 
diseases, is the outcome of what we are 
pleased to term civilisation. 



90 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

The primary object a man aims at is 
to find a supply of food and water, knowing 
full well that he is unable to do without 
either. His duty, then, is to select what 
his Creator, from the beginning, intended for 
his use. Moreover, this can be produced 
in abundance, and it is not necessary that it 
should primarily pass through the stomach 
of an animal, and then be consumed with 
all the products of decomposition which it 
must necessarily be charged with, conse- 
quent upon the physiological changes that 
have been proceeding in the victim prior 
to its death. No wonder that, with food 
that is not adapted to the maintenance 
of health, man falls an easy prey to dis- 
ease. 

Nature produces no food either for man 
or other herbivorous animal that does not 
require mastication, and this is essential 
for two reasons, the first being that it be 
thoroughly pulverised and mixed with the 
saliva, which acts as a digestive agent 
upon the starchy material present in the 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 91 

food; and, secondly, that the further 
result will be attained which will permit 
the albuminous portion to be the more 
readily acted upon by the digestive juices 
of the stomach. Mastication, therefore, 
is essential to easy digestion, for other- 
wise the stomach will be overtaxed, and 
sooner or later suffer in its functional 
activity, when the food will tend to ferment 
instead of digest. This will be accom- 
panied by the generation of foul gases 
and acidity, both of which will operate 
injuriously not only upon the stomach 
itself, but, by absorption into the blood, 
will act prejudicially upon every cell and 
tissue of the body, while that which 
ought to have been converted into 
nourishment had the conditions been 
normal becomes effete matter. This, 
upon reaching the colon, will be liable to 
undergo still further putrefactive changes, 
followed by more serious consequences 
than those due to the primary fermenta- 
tion. I need hardly add that if con- 



92 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

stipation is coexistent, the evil will be 
very much accentuated. This, however, 
is only one of the many evils that are 
bound to supervene upon imperfect mas- 
tication, even when the food is wholesome. 
How much more important, therefore, 
will the sequelae prove, if the ingested 
substances be largely made up of mate- 
rial foreign to the stomach's ability to 
deal with in a satisfactory manner. It is 
quite contrary to Nature's decree that 
one organ should do the work of two ; 
on the other hand, she will not tolerate 
with impunity neglect of any organ in 
doing its legitimate duty. If we do not 
use our teeth on the food she has 
provided for us, she will cease to keep 
them free from decay and retain them 
fixed in their sockets. If, instead of 
adopting Nature's diet, we endeavour to 
subsist upon matter from which all the 
nourishment has been removed by mace- 
ration, the vital principle, destroyed by 
heat, and rendered soft and pultaceous 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 93 

in the process of cooking to excess, we 
will cease to put our teeth to the use 
they were intended for, and in conse- 
quence they will tend to decay or fall 
out. This fact, from my point of view, 
is a most cogent argument in favour of 
a rational diet. Nature has provided no 
food that does not require mastication, 
and she has provided the mill by which 
it can be ground and thus prepared for 
its complete digestion. Moreover, she has 
not thought it necessary to encourage one 
to eat more than is good for one by 
exciting unduly the palate through the 
olfactory nerves. Hunger, and easily 
satisfied hunger, has been the only induce- 
ment she offers to make us eat, while a 
healthy digestion and bodily comfort, 
with buoyant vitality, are the results. 

There would be no dyspepsia were we 
to use our teeth energetically upon the 
food which has been provided by a benefi- 
cent Providence for our use, and if there 
were no dyspepsia there would be no 



94 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

gout, rheumatism, neuralgia, or any 
of the thousand-and-one ills man has 
brought upon himself by preferring to 
cater for his palate rather than provide 
simply for his necessities. 

I am quite aware that many otherwise 
sensible people will be inclined to exclaim, 
Life would not be worth living were we 
compelled to subsist upon such a diet ! 
Their motto, they will probably try to 
make themselves believe, is " a short life 
and a merry one." Where, I wonder, is 
the merriment in pandering to disease, 
and being subject to it as a consequence 
of folly ? Does it not appeal to every 
sensible person, that life would prove 
much merrier were disease not such a 
constant handicap upon it? Surely, as 
Solomon says, " Better is a dinner of 
herbs, where love is, than a stalled ox 
and hatred therewith." And, let me add, 
there would be more love, and less 
hatred, were not all that is evil in our 
natures so prone to be excited by the 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 95 

errors of diet so many indulge in, and 
by the maladies induced by these, destroy- 
ing the equilibrium of the nervous 
apparatus, thus permitting passion, instead 
of reason, to dominate their lives. 

Had Nature intended us to cook our 
food one of man's many inventions 
she would not have brought the fruits of 
the earth to the state of perfection she 
has done, but would have provided the 
implements by which this should be 
accomplished. Can we suppose for a 
moment that animals who eat their food 
in its elementary condition, do not enjoy 
it as much as so many of us do who 
cultivate a taste for so-called delicacies, 
which habit and a pernicious habit is 
solely responsible for. 

Moreover, thorough mastication will de- 
velop unknown flavours in natural food 
which will surprise those who have hitherto 
ignored Nature's diet, and this pleasant 
result is the outcome of the changes that 
are developed by the action of the saliva 



96 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

upon the chemical ingredients contained 
therein, being the first stage of the 
process of digestion. For example, starch 
is, by the action of the saliva, changed 
into dextrine and glucose, which, combined 
with the flavouring essences contained, 
develop a delicious taste, and similar 
pleasant results are obtained during the 
masticating of nuts and almonds. In- 
deed, no matter what food one indulges 
in, the full flavour is only developed by 
thorough mastication, and the simpler the 
diet the less danger there will be of 
overloading, and thus incapacitating, the 
stomach, which will in every instance 
lead to disease. Moreover, there will be 
less danger of overtaxing the excretory 
organs, thus lessening if not altogether 
removing the tendency to skin, lung, 
kidney disease and constipation, with 
their attendant evil consequences. Man 
has been endowed with perfect liberty of 
action, and at the same time Nature has 
provided him with ample means to enable 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 97 

him to enjoy perfect health, yet, where 
his physical happiness is concerned, he 
would seem to go contrary to her dictates 
in almost every particular, and to employ 
that liberty to defeat her intentions. 
This is a serious charge to make, yet, 
unfortunately, it is impossible to view 
the actual facts in any other light, for 
does not man detract, to a culpable 
extent, from the pleasure of eating and 
a pleasure it always should be by over- 
loading his stomach with one hand, while 
with the other he endeavours to counter- 
act the evil consequences, which experience 
has taught him are certain to follow, by 
taking nauseous drugs. Hence the enor- 
mous sale of quack nostrums, which are, 
as a rule, composed of more or less irritant 
poisons, and which though, in consequence 
of Nature's effort to get rid of them, also 
purge away redundant material, but they 
are certain to leave their indelible in- 
jurious effects behind. 

The outcome of it all is, that at the 
7 



98 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

age of forty the majority of mankind 
begins to go downhill, instead of being in 
its prime a period that should continue 
for other forty years at least the 
various organs show symptoms of decay, 
the cellular tissue rebels against the ill- 
usage it has been subjected to by the 
fictitious nourishment supplied to it, and 
in consequence adopts a new form of life, 
cancer being the result. The blood-vessels 
undergo fatty or calcareous degeneration, 
until they become so friable that they are 
unable to withstand the blood pressure, 
and eventually rupture, the consequence 
being apoplexy, with its accompanying 
paralysis, followed by premature death. 
I might cite numberless other evil effects 
due to the persistent disobedience to those 
laws which have been enacted for our 
guidance ; but this is unnecessary, as these 
are palpable to all who are not blind to 
their own best interests, and who are 
willing to exercise a little common sense. 
Now, "it is never too late to mend," 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 99 

and many a man has been saved from being 
a physical wreck, even after forty years of 
age, if he has consented to alter his mode 
of life. I need hardly quote that well- 
known example, Luigi Cornaro, a Venetian 
nobleman and a man of great learning. 
He was, at the age of forty, such a martyr 
to disease that it was predicted by the 
most renowned medical men he consulted 
that he would never see the age of fifty. 
Having received such an unfavourable 
prognosis he determined to think for 
himself, and came to the conclusion that 
his sufferings were entirely due to over- 
eating. He therefore, to put his theory 
to a practical test, commenced a reform 
by restricting his dietary to 12 oz. of food 
per diem. As years passed by he reduced 
his daily rations still further, the result 
being that he continued in perfect health, 
and enjoyed his new lease of life to the 
full. Some of his best literary work was 
executed between the ages of 86 and 95, 
and he lived till he was 103 years of age. 



100 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

The result of living upon food, the vital 
principle of which has not been destroyed 
by cooking, is that there is no inducement 
to eat more than is necessary for our 
sustenance, and the organs of digestion, 
never being overtaxed, become normal in 
their activity, and make full use of the 
material to be converted into energy, and 
the maintenance of health. These foods 
require thorough mastication, which is one 
of Nature's safeguards against over-in- 
dulgence. It will be found that a much 
less quantity of uncooked food, thoroughly 
masticated, will have a much more in- 
vigorating effect than double or even 
treble the quantity of the same material 
were it cooked, with the additional ad- 
vantage that the effete matter will neither 
be so offensive or abundant, while in- 
digestion and constipation, with the many 
ills they are responsible for, will come to 
a speedy end. 

It is not likely that at first the palate 
and appetite, which hitherto have been 



X 

HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 101 

pampered by savoury cooking, will at once 
take kindly to uncooked foods, even if one 
is willing to adopt the reformed diet, and 
it may therefore be prudent, in the circum- 
stances, to allow a certain portion, for a 
time, of that which habit has induced one 
to hanker after. But let the staple diet 
consist of a preponderance of articles con- 
taining all their vital elements unimpaired, 
and the reformer will soon get to prefer 
these, when a new world of comfort and 
enjoyment of life will open up to him. 

I hardly need to add that it is incum- 
bent upon us to use our intelligence in 
the selection and mixture of our food, so 
that we do not confine our diet to a class 
of articles which are of similar nutritive 
value; that is to say, our menu should 
be varied. It is our duty to make use of 
farinaceous substances to keep up the 
caloric, mingled with those containing 
albumen or protein, together with the 
phosphates, and other salts, which go to 
nourish and repair the muscles, bones, 



102 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

and nervous system, so that we do not 
confine ourselves to any one thing. It is 
also our duty, therefore, to acquaint our- 
selves with the special nutritive value of 
the various substances that are provided 
for our nourishment. We would thus be 
enabled to choose, intelligently, the dietary 
most suited to our requirements, when 
gradually abnormal appetite would give 
place to healthy hunger. 

When this has been established, and 
the appetite has fallen into line with the 
physical needs, one will not feel inclined 
to lead a sedentary life, but will be im- 
pelled to take active exercise, and thus 
encourage the functional activity of the 
various organs of the body. Deep breath- 
ing will thereby be induced, thus en- 
couraging the elimination of waste material 
from the blood, and at the same time 
promoting a more active circulation in 
these organs, thus still further aiding in 
the process of excretion by bringing more 
oxygen in contact with the blood. Nor- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 103 

mally induced activity would therefore do 
away with the necessity of undergoing 
courses of physical culture, which are 
thought to be so necessary in this enlight- 
ened age. Following these precepts would 
not only prove to be the best insurance 
policy we could take out against disease, 
but also light up the path to perfect 
health. 

A great amount of excellent advice has 
been offered to the public by various 
writers on the question of Food Keform. 
Some of this, however, can hardly be 
quite acceptable, and, from my point of 
view, would seem to have damaged the 
cause the writers have at heart by their 
extremist dogmas. For example and I 
take the liberty of quoting from an 
American writer whose views, on the 
whole, I believe to be in every way quite 
in accordance with truth, yet in the fol- 
lowing extract from his book his state- 
ments, from my point of view, are quite 
at variance with accepted facts. He 



104 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

asserts that bread which, as we know, 
is our staple article of food because of 
the fact that, in the process of making, 
fermentation has one of " the most dele- 
terious processes known in the culinary 
art introduced into it." 

Then he goes on to state and rightly, 
I maintain that the evils which follow 
the cooking or superheating of all other 
articles of food are due to the cooking, 
and that these evils consist principally in 
lessening their food value. Then, he adds, 
bread is not only subjected to the devi- 
talising process of baking, but is infected 
with a germ that converts a large amount 
of the nutritive value of the grain into 
carbon dioxide poison. After this he goes 
on to make a statement which is absurd 
on the face of it, which is, that " fermen- 
tation is Nature's process of disintegra- 
tion that is, the changing of matter 
back into its original elements," and he 
applies this to the conversion, by means 
of yeast, of a certain amount of starch in 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 105 

the dough into dextrine which, as is 
well known, the saliva would accomplish, 
at any rate and the liberation of a cer- 
tain amount of carbon dioxide, which 
raises the bread, and which he looks upon 
as a poison, while it only acts as such 
when it is inhaled in quantity of 2 per 
cent, and over, in the air breathed, but 
can be taken into the stomach with im- 
punity. Moreover, the process of fermen- 
tation is immediately checked by the heat 
of the oven, and the gases generated at 
the same time are driven off. 

He then proceeds as follows: " People 
seem not to be content with subjecting 
their foods to a powerful heat, and rob- 
bing them of their original elements 
devitalising them, changing their life- 
giving carbon into carbonic acid gas 
changing the starch into dextrine, &c." 
(whereas this only proceeds to a hardly ap- 
preciable extent). "But to make sure 
they are thoroughly unfit for use, intro- 
duce yeast germs into dough and allow 



106 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

it to stand overnight in a nice, warm, 
comfortable place, so as to be certain the 
few germs will multiply themselves into 
millions and billions more." 

Then, the still more unscientific state- 
ment is made that " Bread rises when 
infected with the yeast germ, because 
millions of these little worms " which 
are not worms in any sense whatever 
" have been born and have died, and, from 
their dead and decaying bodies, there arises 
a gas just as it does from the dead body 
of a hog, or any other animal." Can any 
one conceive of such a distortion of truth 
being acceptable to any one of ordinary 
intelligence ? 

One other quotation will suffice to 
point out what extraordinary and incorrect 
statements a man will condescend to 
make in support of a fallacy, which is as 
follows : " The process of fermenting 
bread" which in itself is a misnomer 
" is exactly the same as that which is 
carried on in the vat for making beer, or 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 107 

through which the grain passes in making 
whiskey, and through which fruit passes 
in making brandies and wines. It creates 
in the human organism the same set of 
conditions that is created in the produc- 
tion of nearly all intoxicating beverages ; 
therefore what seems the natural appetite 
for intoxicants is a false cry of perverted 
nature, first created and set in motion by 
what we are pleased to call the stall of 
life fermented bread." Now, let me ask, 
if even there were a small amount of 
alcohol produced during the process of 
leavening the dough, where would it be 
when baking is completed? The writer 
seems to have overlooked the fact that 
alcohol is a highly volatile fluid, and 
would be driven oS immediately the dough 
became heated, and long before the bread 
was baked. That theory, therefore, of the 
inducements to lead to drunkenness can 
hardly be entertained. 

There can be no doubt, however, that 
the same writer is correct when he states 



108 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

that " No man or woman who will live 
for six months on pure, clean, elementary 
foods, can possibly keep alive an appetite 
for stimulants and narcotics. From this 
rule there is absolutely no variance. 
There can be no room in the human 
body, a body made of Nature's unchanged 
foods, for such foreign elements as tobacco 
and rum." 

My experience is that one of the best 
aids in the cure of drunkenness is com- 
plete abstinence from a flesh diet, and 
those who are interested in the subject of 
temperance would do well to take this 
fact into serious consideration. 

The Drink Question is one of such vast 
and far-searching importance, pregnant as 
it is with misery, sickness, and death, that 
no apology need be offered in bringing it 
prominently before my readers. Slavery 
to alcohol is not only debasing and 
humiliating to the victim, but degrading 
to his humanity. Moreover, its evil effects 
are not, unfortunately, concentrated upon 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 109 

the drunkard, but are felt, and that most 
keenly, not only by his poor wife and 
children, but by his entire environment. 
As we know to our cost and sorrow, there 
is no one vice which contributes so much 
to immorality, crime, disease, degeneracy, 
insanity, and an early grave as that national 
curse, strong drink. 

Unfortunately legislation has proved 
utterly helpless in combating the evil, nor 
do I believe temporary or even prolonged 
restraint will ever prove of permanent 
value ; dipsomania is a species of insanity, 
and must be dealt with as such. Fortu- 
nately it is rarely of an incurable form, 
though to treat it successfully measures 
must be adopted which aim at restoring 
the tone and vigour of the semi-paralysed 
nervous apparatus, the enfeebled condition 
of which may in the first instance as is 
frequently the case have been due to 
nervous shock, the effects of a previous 
illness, some internal derangement, such as 
dyspepsia, and its concomitants or depres- 



110 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

sion of spirits due to grief or worry. But 
the continued loss of will-power, the 
invariable predisposing cause of alcoholism, 
is in the majority of instances directly 
consequent upon the pernicious habit of 
having recourse to stimulants with the view 
of temporarily bracing up flagging nervous 
energy. No sooner does the desired effect 
induced by stimulants pass off, than the 
debilitated nerve cells, deprived of the 
fictitious energy, fall back into a worse 
condition than that which previously 
obtained. 

In process of time the nerve cells become 
completely demoralised and would appear 
to be rendered incapable of abstracting 
from their normal food supply that whole- 
some stimulus which would enable them 
to perform their functions in a healthy 
manner. This is due to the paralysing 
effect which alcohol, circulating in the 
blood, produces upon cellular tissue, both 
directly by its poisonous nature and 
indirectly by its destructive effect upon 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 111 

the white corpuscles and upon the nuclein. 
The former, we know, act as purifiers of 
the blood by virtue of their destructive 
effect upon toxic material constantly gain- 
ing access to the vital fluid, and the 
latter contributes to a great extent to the 
source of supply from which these white 
corpuscles and the nervous system derive 
their nourishment. 

The consequence is that the whole 
nervous apparatus is rendered incapable 
of maintaining a healthy standard, and, 
therefore, every function of the body, all 
of which are dependent upon nerve energy 
for the performance of their various duties, 
suffer materially. The brain becomes 
muddled, the sensory nerves morbidly 
affected, giving rise to nervous headaches, 
the digestive organs are prostrated, the 
result being dyspepsia, causing bilious- 
ness, nausea, and so on. The general 
effect is one of abject misery from which 
the wretched victim seems only capable 
of gaining relief by having recourse to 



112 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

the very agent which produced the evil, 
and thus the enslaving habit is established, 
and unless some rational measures be 
resorted to to arrest it, a crisis must 
speedily supervene. 

Before considering the various methods 
that have been suggested for the treatment 
of dipsomania, it will be well to dwell 
for a little upon certain incidents which 
may lead up to the contraction of this 
malady, for such it is. It is possible that 
if these were brought prominently forward 
and demonstrated to be factors to a large 
extent in spreading the evil, an enormous 
amount of misery might be averted. As 
we know prevention is always better than 
cure, and very much easier of achievement, 
it behoves every well-wisher of his race 
to point out and endeavour to suppress 
any factor that may tend to render one 
susceptible to the influence of this enemy 
to sanity both of mind and body. I need 
hardly refer to the painful fact that dipso- 
mania is more or less of a hereditary 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 113 

affection. Greater care, then, should be 
devoted to the rearing of children of 
those where the taint exists, and principles 
of total abstinence, during childhood, at 
all events, be carefully inculcated. Un- 
fortunately it is not infrequently the case 
that infants and young children are dosed 
with alcohol unknown to their parents, as 
the following extract from the New York 
Medical Becord will amply demonstrate : 

"THE DANGERS OP ELIXIRS. 

" Simple elixir, so called, has been adopted as a 
common vehicle in prescription intended for children, 
yet it is probable that but few physicians realise that 
this elixir contains a considerable proportion of alcohol 
which under other circumstances they would hesitate 
to administer. It remains for a pharmacist to call 
attention to this fact, and to show that the ordinary 
doses of the preparation may be productive of con- 
siderable harm in those of tender years. Mr. E. F. 
Heffner, in a paper read at the twenty-ninth annual 
meeting of the Pennsylvania Pharmaceutical Associa- 
tion, cited a number of common prescriptions in 
which this might occur. Thus sodium bromide is 
very often administered in the proportion of one 
grain to the teaspoonful of simple elixir, every hour 
or half-hour, which means that the child, often less 

8 



114 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

than a year old, is getting about a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of alcohol at every dose, or the equivalent 
of two teaspoonfuls of wine, or over half a teaspoonful 
of whiskey or brandy. In older children correspond- 
ingly larger doses are given, which are not only 
harmful in themselves, but also counteract the 
sedative effects of the bromide. Another common 
prescription contains chloral and bromides in simple 
elixir, which makes a bright, clear, and palatable 
solution. But the fact is overlooked that, there is 
a chemical incompatability of chloral and alkaline 
bromides in alcoholic solution, for, on standing, the 
chloral alcoholate will come to the top in a clear 
layer of about the same colour as the rest of the 
mixture. Unless the bottle be shaken, the patient 
is likely to get all the chloral in one dose. These 
examples need no comment, for the dangerous effect 
of alcohol in children is of common knowledge, but, 
as Heffner truly states, it is well that the prescribing 
mind be occasionally refreshed in cases of this kind. 
In order to avoid any possible danger he advises the 
use of an aromatic water and simple syrup as a 
vehicle in prescriptions of this nature." Medical 
Record. 



Then it is a painful fact that women of 
the poorer classes are permitted to frequent 
drinking saloons carrying their infants 
with them. But unfortunately the evil 
does not end there, for it is well known 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 115 

that the mothers are in the habit of 
dosing the little ones with drink, the con- 
sequence of which is inevitable. Where 
an early death is not the result, the sequel 
is a stunted growth both of body and 
mind, with a proneness to acquire the 
pernicious habit. 

Patients, too, are frequently prescribed 
alcoholic stimulants in cases of illness, 
and do not discontinue these when necessity 
has ceased to call for their employ- 
ment, if this ever existed. In any 
case they ought to be discontinued like 
any other prescription when health has 
been re-established. Unfortunately this 
does not always follow, and I have known 
several instances where hopeless dipso- 
mania has supervened. 

As we are well aware, a great many 
people who take alcoholic beverages are 
able to, and do, indulge in alcohol regularly 
without doing so to excess, and as has 
been stated by eminent medical authori- 
ties, with benefit. One of these states : 



116 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

" Beer and wine whip up the strength 
given by real food. Every man is not a 
perfectly healthy man : there may be a few 
men or women who can do all that they 
have to do without tasting a drop of beer 
or wine or spirit, but they are very very 
rare." Another asserts that " the liquor 
of grains is one of the most important 
causes of the stamina of the English people 
that is to say, the Beer of Old England. 
To my mind, it is not the alcohol in the 
beer, but it is the salts which are obtained 
from barley wherein lie the merits of the 
beverage/' 

There is one point, however, which I 
think every one ought to be acquainted 
with, and that is, the first symptom which 
indicates that alcohol has been taken to 
excess though this excess may be to a 
very limited degree is indicated by a 
flushing of the face. This is due to the 
fact that in these circumstances the vasco- 
motor nerves, which control the calibre of 
the arteries, have ceased to act in conse- 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 117 

quence of the temporary paralysis induced 
by the toxic effect of the poison imbibed. 
The result is, the blood-vessels expand to 
their full extent and flushing is the symp- 
tom indicating this. The converse is the 
case when pallor results from shock, this 
being due to these nerves being over- 
stimulated, causing an undue contraction 
of these vessels. 

To obtain the benefit of such beverages, 
then, one should always draw the line 
when Nature holds up her hand in this 
unmistakable manner. It is only by acting 
upon this principle that alcohol can ever 
prove advantageous. There is another 
rule that should invariably be followed, 
which is, that when one has once so far 
forgot himself as to go beyond rational 
indulgence in stimulants and become in- 
toxicated, to take his stand there and then 
and become a total abstainer ; otherwise 
he will never be safe. Permit me to 
refer to one circumstance I have observed 
in a long experience, and which I have 



118 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

noted with considerable interest. This is, 
that when a person is fond of sweetmeats 
there does not appear to be the tendency 
either to indulge in alcohol or smoking to 
excess. Indeed, I may go further and 
suggest that substituting sugar will fre- 
quently prove most helpful to any one 
anxious to overcome the drink habit. I 
knew of one remarkable instance where 
this succeeded admirably. This was the 
case of a most intellectual man who sub- 
sequently became a Member of Parliament. 
He was terribly addicted to drink, and 
made every endeavour to overcome the 
evil habit, but without success until it 
was suggested to him to carry always with 
him a quantity of sweetmeats, and when 
the craving came on to put one in his 
mouth. This plan he carried out sys- 
tematically, with the result that he com- 
pletely succeeded in overcoming his failing. 
This circumstance strikes one as remark- 
able, seeing the close chemical relationship 
sugar bears to alcohol. 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 119 

Dipsomaniacs may be divided into two 
classes : 1. Those who periodically suc- 
cumb to temptation and continue the 
debauch for days and sometimes weeks 
together, which may only terminate with 
an attack of delirium tremens. This is 
followed by a period of abstinence accom- 
panied by remorse which unfortunately is 
rarely long-lived. 

2. Those persistent dram-drinkers, who, 
though perpetually tippling, rarely get 
dead drunk and yet are constantly ex- 
haling the fumes of alcohol. They are 
generally sufficiently sober to enable them 
to find their way about, and are rarely in 
such a condition that renders them incap- 
able from a legal point of view. Their 
mental and moral condition, however, 
rapidly suffers, and though their downfall 
may be gradual yet it is certain. Their 
character rapidly deteriorates, which is fol- 
lowed by wreckage of their physical 
stamina sooner or later the heart, liver, 
and kidneys suffer seriously in their 



120 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

functional activity, and as a natural 
consequence organic disease supervenes. 
Eventually the debilitated body succumbs 
to this surely a sorry ending to what 
otherwise might have proved to be a long 
and useful life. Yet the fact is, and this 
is worthy of comment, that the habitual 
tippler, whose mental condition is never 
normal, and who is the cause of untold 
misery to all connected with him, is judged 
with less severity than the man whose 
bouts of drunkenness, though possibly 
more pronounced at the time, are com- 
paratively few and far between. Now the 
very reverse should be the case, as the 
latter is more deserving of pity, care, and 
compassion. Moreover, he will be found 
to be more amenable to treatment than 
the habitual fuddler. The one is the 
victim of impulse, while the other de- 
liberately yields up body and soul to the 
pernicious influence of alcohol. 

I need hardly refer to the various cir- 
cumstances which tend to drive a man to 



HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 121 

drink, such as unhappiness at home, due 
either to the incapacity, carelessness, or 
temper of his wife, or his own lack of 
interest in her and her ofttimes great 
responsibilities to which he may also 
prove callous and unsympathetic. The 
tendency in these circumstances is to 
frequent the public-house or his club, 
preferring these to his own fireside, with 
the inevitable result. 

Nor until the victim of the drink habit 
can be brought to realise the danger which 
besets him, and his moral sense be roused 
so as to give rise to the desire to free him- 
self from the bonds of the slavery he is 
the victim of, can any cure be expected. 
On the other hand, if there arises a sin- 
cere desire on his part, he is entitled to 
look forward with confidence to ultimate 
and complete recovery of his will-power. 



THE PEEPECTION OF MANHOOD 



CHAPTEE II 

THE PEBFECTION OF MANHOOD 

LET us now consider for a moment what 
I would term the perfection of manhood. 
The fundamental principle upon which 
the ancient Greeks based their education 
consisted in devoting special attention to 
those measures which promote the develop- 
ment of the body simultaneously with that 
of the mind. They recognised the fact 
that a healthy and vigorous mind is in- 
compatible with an unhealthy body. Body 
and mind must of necessity work in har- 
mony if the best results are to be obtained. 
The higher the standard of our physical 
strength, the more lofty will be our attain- 
ments, not only because of the greater 

136 



126 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

animal force it yields, but because of the 
additional nervous energy it imparts, and 
thus renders us more fit not only for 
physical but mental work. We can rely 
upon it as a reservoir of power, which 
may be applied in either direction, but 
this can never be exerted at its utmost 
limit in both. If we are engaged in 
arduous bodily work, experience teaches 
us that simultaneous mental work is out 
of the question, and, on the other hand, 
we are aware prolonged mental work in- 
variably produces physical exhaustion. 
Thus, an overtaxed brain acts most 
seriously upon the growth of a child, 
who is thereby rendered less fit for the 
struggle of life than his schoolmate whose 
inclinations have been more towards play. 
Physical strength, as we know, can be 
attained by systematic gymnastic exercise, 
but this should not be aimed at, at the 
expense of some other faculty, for a man 
may be possessed of great strength of limb 
and yet may not be strictly speaking a 



THE PERFECTION OF MANHOOD 127 

healthy man, and it is a well-known fact 
that those who make it a business of 
displaying feats of strength are invariably 
short-lived. On the other hand, we must 
bear in mind that over-mental fatigue 
will wreck the frame of the most robust. 
This was sadly exemplified in the case 
of Herbert Spencer, who, at the age of 
thirty, became a physical wreck, and who 
pathetically wrote : " Chronic bodily disorder 
casts a gloom over the highest prospects ; 
while the vivacity of strong health gilds 
even misfortune." A man must remember 
his limitations, and act up to this know- 
ledge if he aims at doing the best and 
greatest amount of useful work. It may 
be remarked that a vast amount of work 
of the highest class has been accomplished 
by those who were practically invalids. 
These, however, in the majority of in- 
stances have been rendered such by 
ignoring these limitations I speak of. 

The human body is a highly complicated 
piece of mechanism, composed of a 



128 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

variety of organs which bear a close 
relationship to each other, and which in 
a condition of health act as a harmonious 
whole. These various parts are dependent 
for their healthy activity upon that 
wonderful storage battery the brain for 
the force which actuates them, and each 
is only entitled to its fair share of nervous 
energy, so that if one organ is compelled 
to work at higher speed than the normal 
the other parts of the mechanism are 
bound to suffer, and the quality of the 
work performed by these will necessarily 
be reduced. The harmony being thus 
disturbed, the inevitable result will be 
that the whole bodily organism must feel 
the evil effects. 

To gain the full benefits of education, 
it is necessary to associate the training 
of the mind with that of the body, and 
by this we mean the development of the 
powers therein should be aimed at, and 
kept in such a state of harmony that they 
will advance at an equal rate with the 



THE PERFECTION OF MANHOOD 129 

most refined mental and moral attain- 
ments. Harmony must of necessity 
continue throughout, for an over-stimu- 
lated brain reflects itself upon an impaired 
digestion or stunted body, or both. On 
the other hand, an over-developed 
muscular frame will as surely affect 
deleteriously the mental development. 
The aim of muscular training should 
always be directed towards improving the 
functional activity and development of 
the nervous system, and mutual recipro- 
city will then prove of service to both 
mind and body. 

Every beat of the heart, every breath 
we draw, and every movement we make is 
preceded by a discharge of nervous energy, 
and it is essential that the force discharged 
should just be sufficient and in the right 
direction to obtain the most satisfactory 
and economic results. Gymnastic exercise, 
if scientifically conducted, will do much 
to enable a child to attain this result by 

enabling him to be accurate, easy, and 

9 



130 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

graceful in his movements. But from my 
point of view, the happiest method for a 
boy or girl to acquire these benefits is in 
an outdoor life, where they can enjoy 
exercise and sports in a pure atmosphere 
and abundance of sunlight. The determi- 
nation to overcome difficulties is fostered 
by seeing others succeed in feats which 
at first seemed impossible, and thus a 
confidence is engendered which acts as a 
wholesome incentive in after-life. 

Of course the first teachers of physical 
hygiene should be the parents ; and this 
does not only apply to the training of 
the muscles, but to the adapting of the 
food to the requirements of these, and 
also studying the diet which will pro- 
mote the development of mental activity. 
Many a child who appears to be dull and 
stupid would show a very different front 
were more attention devoted to his food 
supply. Pampering of children is one of 
the curses of the age. The physical as 
well as the intellectual development of 



THE PERFECTION OF MANHOOD 131 

the child, then, lies with the parents. 
Doubtless this necessitates a considerable 
amount of knowledge, but is there any 
reason why this knowledge should not be 
acquired? An eminent authority puts 
the subject into a nutshell when he says : 
" A child is usually thought well fed if 
he does not starve; well clothed if he 
does not freeze." 

It must be borne in mind that it is 
only during growth that training of the 
physical and mental capabilities can prove 
of the most intrinsic value, as when 
maturity has been arrived at, though 
mental vigour afterwards does increase 
and will continue to do so when culti- 
vated, the same can hardly be said with 
regard to the muscular system. 

The quality and quantity of the air we 
breathe, the light that surrounds us and 
which we absorb, suitable clothing, our 
food and drink, all exert an influence 
upon us just as their environment affects 
animals and plants, and I am afraid these 



132 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCEK 

have frequently received more careful 
study than is sometimes devoted to the 
rearing of healthy, strong, shapely, and 
well-balanced children. Parents, however, 
are now beginning to plan more carefully 
for their children's future. They are being 
taught both by their own experience and 
that of others the intimate relationship 
between mind and body. We are begin- 
ning to realise the ancient Greek concep- 
tion of the musical harmony of the whole. 
We have to recognise the truth of 
Herbert Spencer's words, that " the mind 
is not as deep as brain only, but in a 
sense as deep as the viscera." This, then, 
should be the foundation on which to 
build the beautiful edifice of a well- 
developed body, illuminated by a highly 
cultivated mind, but this will never be 
attained by over-burdening boys and girls 
with tasks which exhaust both mind and 
body to the extent which I fear is too 
prevalent in this age of strife after wealth 
and distinction. The result in a minority 



THE PERFECTION OF MANHOOD 133 

of instances which parents and teachers 
have aimed at may be attained, but only, 
I fear, at the expense of an enfeebled 
constitution. 

In conclusion, permit me once more to 
quote Herbert Spencer, who spoke from 
sad experience when he said, " What folly 
it is, while finishing the engine, so to 
damage the boiler, that it will not generate 
steam." And "What is the worth of 
distinction, if it has brought hypochondria 
with it ? " * 

* A most able paper in the Dietetic and Hygienic 
Gazette, New York, by Dr. J. F. Eogers, New Haven, 
Conn., has proved of immense service to me in com- 
piling this chapter. E. B. 



CLEANLINESS 



CHAPTEE III 

CLEANLINESS 

IT has been stated that cleanliness is next 
to godliness, and if a clean mind is co- 
incident with a clean body, there can be 
no doubt on the subject. On the other 
hand filth, no matter what it consists of, 
be it mental or bodily, cannot possibly be 
compatible with a desirable standard of 
morality, nor is a man, who does not 
keep his body clean, however lofty his 
professions of religion may be, to be 
trusted. 

The skin is by far the most extensive 
excreting surface of any organ of the 
body, and, to enable it to do its duty 
efficiently it must be kept scrupulously 



137 



138 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

clean, its innumerable glands kept in per- 
fect working order and the healthy con- 
dition of the cuticle be maintained, if we 
aim at its maximum of functional activity 
being attained. Cleanliness will help very 
much in this direction, and it is gratifying 
to note that municipal authorities, both in 
this and other countries, are providing bath- 
ing facilities to further this hygienic neces- 
sity, by providing baths for public use, so 
that there can be no excuse for any one 
who fails to take advantage of them. 

As we know, the ancients paid special 
attention to bathing, and in many in- 
stances this formed a part of their re- 
ligion. One of the Mosaic doctrines was 
purification by water ; and now the symbol 
of admittance into the Christian Church is 
baptism, typifying the cleansing from sin, 
and so admission into the fold of Christ. 

Public baths existed in ancient days in 
almost all Eastern countries. In Japan 
at the present time, and for centuries 
past, daily ablutions have occupied a 



CLEANLINESS 139 

prominent place in their daily life. In 
Tokio alone there are more than 800 
public baths. From 800,000 to 1,000,000 
use these baths daily, and the population 
of the city is not quite 2,000,000. Bathing 
establishments existed centuries ago in 
Egypt, Persia, Assyria, India, and in Kome 
at the present day we have ample evidence 
how numerous and commodious they were 
in the Imperial City. The Hebrew ritual 
insisted upon cleansing the body by water, 
not only before all ceremonies and festivi- 
ties, but before every meal, and in the time 
of Ptolemy baths were provided on an 
ample scale for the use of the populace. 
Indeed, Alexandria is said to have been 
unrivalled for its system of public bathing 
institutions. 

Besides cleanliness being favourable both 
to health physically and morally, the exer- 
cise of swimming has also a most beneficial 
effect upon bodily health and vigour, and 
therefore swimming ponds ought always to 
be a feature in bathing establishments. Of 



140 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

all physical exercises this has been proved 
to be most beneficial. Experiments have 
proved that it has the most valuable effect 
of increasing the number of red corpuscles 
in the blood, whereas indulgence in violent 
exercise such as football, polito, racing, &c., 
is liable to prove injurious to the heart and 
the organs of secretion. Bathing may be 
indulged in in various ways, such as simple 
sponging, the spray, plunge, shower baths, 
etc., but we must not overlook the Kussian 
bath (moist heat) and the Turkish bath 
(dry heat). 

In people who are delicate or plethoric, 
the sponge bath only should be had re- 
course to, and then only when this can be 
followed by a hard rub down with a warm, 
rough towel. 

Cold baths are beneficial when they are 
followed by a good reaction, but I am 
strongly of opinion that they should not 
be indulged in by persons over forty 
years of age. After this period the bath 
should be tepid or even warmer. For my 



CLEANLINESS 141 

part, I take a hot bath every morning, 
which after a brisk rub down is most 
invigorating, and if one remains immersed 
for a couple of minutes or so it is never 
followed by a feeling of chilliness, but the 
reverse. 

Children should be educated to the use 
of the daily bath as soon as they are able 
to take advantage of it themselves. Prior 
to that it should be the care of the 
parents to administer it. If once the 
habit is acquired it will rarely be departed 
from. 

The use of the Eussian or Turkish bath 
should always be subject to medical advice 
if there be any doubt about the condition of 
the heart or blood-vessels. 



AN INTEBESTING QUESTION 



CHAPTEE IV 

AN INTEEESTING QUESTION 

IT would be interesting to ascertain if 
the following question has not often sug- 
gested itself, not only to the man in the 
street but to the medical man in his 
daily routine, the clergyman in his minis- 
terial work, the business man, and the 
man of independent means, not to speak 
of those of the weaker sex upon whose 
devotion both in health and sickness we 
rely so much, and upon whose love and 
care we are ever dependent, viz., How 
does it happen that one or more members 
of a family are prone to disease while the 
remainder continue in the possession of a 
healthy constitution ? 

10 145 



146 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

Again, what are the influences at work 
which, during the prevalence of epidemics, 
and when the environment and other 
conditions seem identical, permit some to 
escape whilst others are prostrated by the 
disease prevailing at the time? How 
does it happen, too, that, out of several 
passengers coming off a long railway 
journey, where they have been pent up 
for hours in a vitiated and disease-laden 
atmosphere, only one or two, perhaps, 
upon their arrival at home will be laid 
up with pneumonia or some other acute 
disease, while the others have escaped ? 
In short, to what are we to attribute the 
susceptibility to disease on the one hand 
and immunity on the other, all things 
being equal, or rather apparently equal? 
The elucidation of such a problem cannot 
fail to be of interest to every one. I will 
endeavour to shed some light, at all 
events, upon the subject. 

We must first assume, and we have 
every ground for doing so, that .the body, 



AN INTERESTING QUESTION 147 

with its functions in full vital vigour, is 
impervious to disease. That such is the 
case is demonstrated every day of our 
lives. And that we are not at all times 
impervious to disease is, in the majority 
of instances, our own fault or the fault of 
others, more frequently than we are in- 
clined to admit. The human frame was 
never intended to be a receptacle of 
disease or to be transformed into a soil 
for the implanting of disease germs, and 
the propagation of their species. If it 
had been there would not be a soul on 
the earth at the present moment. Are 
we not enveloped by microbes, bacilli, 
and bacteria? Yet we do not all fall 
prone before them, nor is there really any 
necessity that any one should do so. If 
one is able to escape from " the pesti- 
lence that walketh in darkness," there is 
no reason why all should riot be able to 
defy it. You may depend upon it, when 
anybody is prostrated by disease, it is not 
because ample provision has not been 



148 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

made to guard aguinst such a contin- 
gency, but because the means provided 
have been either wilfully or in ignorance 
neglected or ignored. 

Laws have been enacted for our guid- 
ance, and, though we are constantly 
being reminded of their existence, how 
few take the trouble to study and obey 
them. It would appear to be of much 
more importance to educate our children 
in every department of science except in 
that of hygiene, and so they grow up 
without any knowledge of that which 
should concern them most and occupy 
the first place in their education. To a 
certain extent, a false modesty is account- 
able for such a state of matters, but this 
can afford no excuse for perpetuating the 
ignorance, which at present prevails, of 
the laws which, when obeyed, contribute 
to the preservation of health and a happy 
and long life. 

The rule would appear to be to court 
disease instead of endeavouring to avoid 



AN INTERESTING QUESTION 149 

it. The sensual enjoyment of the moment, 
though it is usually followed by much 
more than an equivalent of misery, would 
seem to be preferable to a constantly 
happy frame of mind, which is invariably 
the lot of the abstemious and those who 
conform to the laws Nature has laid down 
for our guidance. 

Let us glance at a few of what may be 
designated the more common ailments to 
which our mode of life renders us sus- 
ceptible. 

Will any person, who knows what he is 
talking about, maintain that tuberculosis 
would be as prevalent as it unfortunately 
is were those fallacious notions regarding 
the dangers arising from a superabund- 
ance of fresh air circulating in the bed- 
room and nursery non-existent ? Did 
exposure to the influence of a constantly 
changing atmosphere ever act injuriously 
even upon a new-born infant or any other 
person? Certainly not. But, keep an 
infant in a vitiated atmosphere, whereby 



150 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

its vitality is depressed, and its lungs 
filled with impurities derived from this, 
and then, in its enfeebled condition, 
permit a draught to play upon the little 
one; what is the result? The little 
creature's blood, not being properly oxy- 
genated, is rendered incapable of further 
resistance, and so the increased prostra- 
tion, consequent upon a chill being super- 
added to that due to the impure air with 
which the small frame is already saturated, 
in every way fulfils the conditions which 
enable the germs of disease to give 
tangible proof of their presence and 
activity. 

It is sheer nonsense to suppose new- 
born babes are unable to tolerate a free 
circulation of air, provided they be well 
clad, and, from my point of view, they 
are, as a rule, encased in far too much 
clothing. But to keep them coddled up 
in a badly ventilated room, in my opinion, 
is criminal. Let them have plenty of 
fresh air from their birth, suitable cloth- 



AN INTERESTING QUESTION 151 

ing, and a rational diet, and we will soon 
perceive that tuberculosis as well as other 
maladies will speedily drop out of the list 
of diseases. Of course, we must always 
bear in mind the danger that arises from 
contagion conveyed by diseased animals, 
but there would be no such thing as 
tuberculosis in cattle were the animals 
permitted to live a natural life, and not 
overcrowded in badly ventilated byres. 
There is no evidence whatever to show 
that, in the wild state, animals are 
affected by this disease. 

The prevention of disease is much more 
desirable than cure. While diet exercises 
a powerful influence in attaining this 
object, yet, without an abundance of fresh 
air, which is always available, dietetics 
will prove of little service. Moreover, the 
neglect of any other hygienic law must 
also be condemned, especially that which 
relates to the sanitary condition of the 
intestinal canal. Let us turn our atten- 
tion, for a moment, to a fever which at 



152 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

one time carried off its victims by the 
thousand : I refer to typhus, now extinct 
in localities where at one time, and that 
not so very long ago, it was rampant. 
To what is due this gratifying state of 
things? It is not because the germs of 
this fatal disease are not still present in 
our midst, but because they have been 
deprived of their opportunity by putting 
an end to overcrowding and badly venti- 
lated dwellings. In other words, a pure 
atmosphere has been substituted for one 
that was vitiated. A similarly happy result 
might likewise be attained with regard to 
tuberculosis. 

No doubt, the proclivity to tuberculosis 
may be inherited to a large extent, but 
that it is hereditary I am inclined to dis- 
pute. When a disease is hereditary, we 
usually have evidence of this at the time 
of birth ; yet a tubercular mother fre- 
quently gives birth to a child which has 
all the appearance of robust health, and 
my observation has led me to believe 



AN INTERESTING QUESTION 153 

that the child being brought up in a 
badly ventilated dwelling, the atmosphere 
of which is laden with the emanations 
of the parent, has a great deal more 
to do with the so-called heredity than 
we are inclined to admit. My view is 
that the disease is contracted, not in- 
herited. 

How slight is the prospect of any child 
escaping infection when it is sleeping, 
eating, and living from day to day in 
such an environment ! 

Again, how are we to account for the 
fact that consumption comparatively rarely 
attacks a subject while the vital functions 
are in full sway, and cell prolification in 
full activity, as is the case in the develop- 
ment and growth of the individual? It 
would appear that it is only when this cell 
activity has been modified by maturity 
being established that the tendency to the 
disease manifests itself. Yet it does not, 
as a rule, attack every member of the 
family. Some may and do escape, and 



154 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

the proportion is greater now than it was 
some years ago. Now, there must be a 
reason for this, just as there is a reason 
for the immunity from other diseases which 
obtains in what we imagine to be similar 
circumstances. 

Let us first acknowledge the fact, and 
fact it is, that the lungs require as their 
vivifying agent an abundance of pure air, 
as opposed to a vitiated air, just as much 
as the stomach requires a supply of whole- 
some nourishment or a steam engine 
regular stoking with good fuel. A failure 
to supply these in quantity or quality will 
inevitably result in loss of energy. Now 
pure air can be had for the taking of it, 
and wholesome food is much easier to 
obtain than that which, in ignorance, 
people would seem to long for and deem 
essential to their well-being. Custom has 
led us seriously astray in the matter of 
diet, but what is to be expected when it 
is founded on ignorance ? 

What would we think of a commander 



AN INTERESTING QUESTION 155 

who would decline to use every possible 
effort to thwart the enemy's design to 
enter his fortress, but would rest quietly 
until the foe was within the gate, and 
then, but not till then, feel compelled to 
bestir himself, when the probability of 
success would be seriously reduced ? 
Would he not be much more worthy of 
his command if, on the contrary, he had 
searched for and strengthened every weak 
point ? 

Now this applies equally to the fortress 
of the human body. The prevention of 
disease is much more easily accomplished 
than its cure, and if parents would take 
the trouble to master and obey the funda- 
mental rules of hygiene, they would not 
only save themselves a great amount of 
anxiety and sorrow, but no inconsiderable 
expense as well. 

As a rule every child is born into the 
world with an unblemished constitution, 
and there is no reason whatever that this 
condition should not continue, if those in 



156 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

charge of it would be guided by reason 
instead of being led astray by fallacies 
which are in reality more hereditary than 
disease is. 



WHAT IS A COLD? 



CHAPTEE V 

WHAT IS A COLD? 

Is it because Nature is so lavish in her 
gifts and the blessings she loads us with 
so numerous that, as a rule, so little 
thought is directed to the consideration 
of the many nay, the innumerable 
benefits she freely confers ? Do we, for 
example, ever pause, even for a moment, 
to contemplate the wonderful provision 
she has made, and is ever making, to 
fortify our bodies against the entrance of 
disease ? Do we ever give thought to 
the trustworthy and efficient sentinels she 
has stationed within our bodies, not only 
to warn us of danger, but to subdue the 
enemy when, perchance, he may have 

159 



160 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

succeeded in asserting his presence ? 
Again, are we not prone to overlook the 
fact, even when disease has established a 
footing, that Nature speedily comes to 
the rescue, and rarely fails to re-establish 
the equilibrium, temporarily upset ? To 
take an example of this beneficent power 
of Nature, let us consider that departure 
from the Wealthy standard somewhat 
flippantly designated a "common cold." 

Perhaps there is no ailment of more 
frequent occurrence, and probably none 
treated with so much indifference, and 
this notwithstanding the fact that the 
most evil consequences not only may, but 
frequently do, supervene. How many 
really understand the train of circum- 
stances tending to provoke an attack? 

The popular theory is that a "cold" is 
due solely to the effect of cold playing 
for -a longer or shorter period upon a 
portion of the body exposed to a draught. 
It is to this cause that a cold is gene- 
rally attributed. This, however, is any- 



WHAT IS A COLD? 161 

thing but a satisfactory explanation, as I 
shall amply demonstrate. 

There must needs be other factors in- 
volved, besides the mere exposure to a 
draught of cold air, before the catarrhal 
condition of the nasal muco-membrane, 
which is the prominent symptom of a 
" cold in the head," can be established. 
No doubt if we are so placed that a cold 
draught continues to play for a time 
upon any portion of the body, the ex- 
posed surface will become chilled, and the 
chilling process may extend far beyond 
the area actually exposed. The primary 
effect of this depletion of caloric is to 
depress the vitality of the individual for 
the time being, and this is the only direct 
effect a draught of pure cold air will pro- 
duce. The secondary effects will be 
indirect shivering and sneezing accom- 
panied in all probability by hypersecretion 
of mucus by the nasal muco-membrane. 
These are termed reflex results, the first 

two constituting Nature's method of over- 

11 



162 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

coming the disturbance of the circulation 
which exposure to cold has caused. 

The effects of the chill have been con- 
veyed by means of the cutaneous nerves 
of the exposed surface to those nervous 
centres from which the sympathetic 
nerves emanate, and upon which they 
are dependent for their functional energy. 
Now, it is these sympathetic nerves which 
control the calibre of the blood-vessels, 
and thus regulate the supply of blood to 
the various tissues of the body. If, then, 
these nervous centres have had conveyed 
to them the depressing effects of the cold 
upon the cutaneous nerves, the effect will 
be to reflect this depression upon the 
sympathetic or, as they are termed, the 
vaso-motor nerves, which have their 
origin in these centres or ganglia. Their 
controlling influence over the arteries 
normally under their domination will, 
therefore, cease for the time being ; the 
blood-vessels will expand under the blood 
pressure, and an undue amount of blood 



WHAT IS A COLD? 163 

will be temporarily pumped into the highly 
vascular muco-membrane. The natural 
sequence is congestion of the part, during 
the continuance of which there will be 
observed an excessive secretion of mucus, 
giving rise to what is popularly termed a 
cold or catarrh in the head. So soon, 
however, as the effects of the cold 
draught have passed ofi and the nerves 
have recovered from their temporary dis- 
ablement, the normal circulation in the 
muco-membrane becomes re-established, 
and this will be the end of that cold 
in the head. 

It must be borne in mind that when- 
ever the secretion of any membrane be- 
comes excessive in quantity, its quality 
is pro rata bound to suffer. It loses its 
healthy character, and its usefulness is 
thereby impaired. In consequence of this 
impairment in the character of the secre- 
tion the affected membrane is rendered 
vulnerable to evil influences that may be 
hovering around ; and herein lies the crux 



164 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

of the whole question. This will be 
apparent when we are made acquainted 
with certain properties the secretion of 
the muco-membrane of the air passages 
possesses. 

It is hardly necessary to explain, what 
every one is conscious of, that the muco- 
membranes are dependent upon their 
secretion of mucus to enable them to 
retain their healthy character and per- 
form their normal functions. The secre- 
tion answers the double purpose of 
keeping the muco-membrane moist and 
comfortable, and also of protecting its 
delicate surface from being irritated by 
gaseous or solid matter suspended in the 
atmosphere, which may find an entrance 
into the air passages in the process of 
breathing. It possesses the faculty of 
arresting impurities suspended in the 
inspired air, thus purifying it before it 
reaches the lungs. This property can 
readily be demonstrated during the pre- 
valence of fog. 



WHAT IS A COLD? 165 

If the foreign matter is irritating in its 
nature, sneezing or coughing will be ex- 
cited, and at the same time mucus will 
be secreted more freely, and will continue 
in excess until the foreign matter is ex- 
pelled, after which the muco-membrane 
will tend to resume its normal condition. 

When the mucus is normal in quantity 
and character it differs very materially in 
one of its most important features from 
the secretion when in excess. A perfectly 
normal secretion contains an active and 
potent constituent named mucin, a most 
powerful antiseptic. It is to the pre- 
sence of mucin that we suffer so little 
from the myriads of germs ever present 
in our environment. They gain admit- 
tance to the air passages, but they are 
immediately arrested by the secretion and 
altogether destroyed by the mucin. After- 
wards they, as well as other extraneous 
matter, are ejected by the mucus which 
has entangled them, and is constantly 
being discharged outwards, the current 



166 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

propelled in that direction by the sweep- 
ing movements of the innumerable minute 
hairs, or cilia, with which the air passages 
are provided. 

It would appear, however, that when the 
secretion is increased in quantity, as it 
always is when there is a cold in the 
head, its character is so altered that 
the antiseptic property of the mucus dis- 
appears, or rather ceases to be produced. 
Now is the opportunity for the germ, 
which, when ventilation is deficient, is 
always at hand ready to take any advan- 
tage of the vulnerable condition of the 
usually impervious armour. Once a foot- 
ing has been gained the germ speedily 
establishes itself and succeeds in main- 
taining sufficient irritation to perpetuate 
hypersecretion, which otherwise would 
speedily have subsided. 

It will be readily understood, then, 
how important a thing nay, how para- 
mount from a hygienic point of view 
is efficient ventilation ; disease germs 



WHAT IS A COLD? 167 

are invariably present in an active 
condition in a vitiated atmosphere. 
Sitting in a draught in a crowded 
room is not only liable to give origin to 
a cold, but also to diseases of more 
serious import. On the other hand, ex- 
posure to a similar draught in an 
uncontaminated atmosphere would pro- 
duce no such effect. This is why 
railway carriages, superheated by the in- 
sanitary methods at present in vogue, are 
so dangerous, and prove such frequent 
foci of disease. This also accounts for 
the fact that " colds " are so frequently 
contracted in overheated and badly venti- 
lated places of public resort, where we 
run the risk of being exposed to a 
draught, and superadded to this are 
breathing an impure atmosphere laden 
with disease germs. Thus simultaneously 
all the vital energies of the individual are 
depressed. Disease is thus courted, and 
every encouragement given to its ad- 
vances, whereas prolonged exposure to 



168 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCEE 

cold in a pure atmosphere will produce 
no such disastrous effects, not even if the 
chill appears to have gripped the very 
bones ! 

What we designate a " cold " is only 
in a very small degree due to the effect 
of cold; the real cause of ailment is 
rather to be sought in the presence and 
activity of microbes. This will be ap- 
parent to any one who has been success- 
ful in aborting a cold by the employment 
of suitable antiseptics in the form of 
sprays or inhalations, these only proving 
effective owing to their power of destroy- 
ing the disease-producing organisms. 



INFLUENZA 



CHAPTEE VI 

INFLUENZA 

A GREAT deal of late has been written on 
the subject of influenza, its aspects, its 
prevention, its possible source, and its 
complications. But from my point of 
view, little information of real value has 
been given. Every one is aware that 
influenza is a malady differing in a multi- 
farious manner from every other zymotic 
disease. No organ of the body would 
appear to be invulnerable to its attack, 
while far-reaching secondary effects of a 
serious nature are more the rule than the 
exception, and not infrequently are more 
important than the actual disease that 
is, if the former can be separated from 

171 



172 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

the latter. Moreover, influenza can hardly 
be classified either as an epidemic or an 
endemic, seeing it does not confine its 
ravages to a locality or to a certain section 
of people, but rather as a pandemic, since 
whole countries, even continents, are fre- 
quently submerged beneath its devastating 
tide. 

That influenza is a zymotic disease is 
beyond question, for not only has the 
bacillus been identified, but its infectious 
nature has been generally recognised. 
Yet climatic conditions would seem to 
exert an important influence upon its 
appearance and disappearance, so we can- 
not but infer that our environment is 
accountable to a certain extent for the 
prevalence or absence of the malady. 
My conviction is that there are many 
factors at work which act as predisposing 
causes more important than the weather, 
though this when severe and depressing, 
in consequence of the additional enfeeble- 
ment induced, renders us more prone to 



INFLUENZA 173 

an attack than otherwise would have 
been the case. The question then is, 
How does any one escape ? 

I have had ample opportunities of 
observing this disease in its various 
phases, having frequently had under my 
care at one time forty to sixty cases 
in the acute stage, so that I may say 
that I was really in the very midst of 
the disease every day for weeks at a 
time ; yet, I am thankful to say, I have 
so far escaped it. I can point to many 
similar instances. Now it will, I trust, 
be conceded there must exist a reason 
for this immunity. 

It is generally admitted that the 
tendency of influenza is to fix upon any 
weak part of a person's constitution, and 
there concentrate its virulent energy. 
But a person may have weak parts and 
yet be invulnerable to influenza. We are 
bound to admit, then, that before influenza 
will be enabled to attack a weak part it 
must first of all have obtained a footing 



174 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

within the body, and it will be my 
endeavour to point out how this can be 
obviated. When I was young the term 
" influenza" conveyed quite a different 
meaning from what it implies to-day. 
Then it meant an acute catarrhal attack, 
affecting the lachrymal, nasal, and bronchial 
passages, which, if carefully attended to, 
passed off without leaving any secondary 
effects whatever. Now, however, a very 
different construction must be put upon 
the disease as we recognise it. 

"Influenza " has been described as u an 
acute, specific, infective, febrile affection, 
characterised by its sudden onset, after 
an incubation of three or four days"; 
but the object of this article is not so 
much to describe influenza as to point 
out how it may be averted. An eminent 
authority has suggested the use of quinine 
as a prophylactic, and brings forward 
evidence to prove the efficacy of this 
medicine. Now the very fact that such 
an agent is useful in the prophylaxis of 



INFLUENZA 175 

influenza, as it also is in malaria, and as 
quinine thus acts by virtue of its anti- 
septic properties, would point to the prob- 
ability, if not to the certainty, that the 
blood of those who prove immune to this 
or any other disease, and whose immunity 
is not dependent upon any therapeutic 
agent, is provided with a prophylactic 
property of its own ; and such is really 
the case. In fact, the proneness to 
disease is entirely due to changes within 
the blood, which act perniciously upon its 
vital constituents, and, through its vitiated 
stream, upon the various organs of the body. 
To follow my reasoning, one must bear 
in mind that the blood contains certain 
elements whose numerical strength and 
integrity are essential to the mainte- 
nance of the health of the body and to 
its resisting power against the inroads of 
disease. If these are in a vigorous and 
healthy condition, no antiseptic, however 
potent, can ever prove so efficacious in 
combating disease and promoting a healthy 



176 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

condition of the body. I refer, of course, 
to the leucocytes, or white corpuscles of the 
blood, upon the vital vigour and energy 
of which so much depends. These minute 
bodies, Metchnikoff, who discovered the 
marvellous powers they possess, named 
" phagocytes," or " cell-eaters." They 
have also received the title of " warrior 
cells," as they are hostile to and attack 
all disease germs which may find access 
to the blood. If they are numerous and 
active enough to attend to their scavenger 
duties efficiently, we enjoy freedom from 
disease, otherwise health suffers. One's 
aim, therefore, should be to promote not 
only the health but the numerical strength 
of these minute organisms ; immunity from 
disease depends entirely upon the bacte- 
ricidal power of the blood, derived from 
the presence of these leucocytes in great 
force. Now there is also present in the 
blood a constituent which is derived from 
various glandular organs where cell tissue 
predominates, such as the liver, spleen, 



INFLUENZA 177 

pancreas, and specially the thyroid gland. 
This is named nuclein, and it exercises 
a most invigorating effect upon these 
" warrior cells," increasing not only their 
vigour but their number also. 

In parentheses I may be permitted to 
present to my readers a few interesting 
particulars relative to nuclein. It is a 
substance rich in phosphorus, and is the 
active chemical principle contained in the 
nuclei of all cells, whether of animal or 
vegetable origin. It may be obtained 
from eggs, cheese, and yeast fungus ; it 
is from the latter that the supply for 
medicinal purposes is chiefly derived. It 
is the active agent in the various anti- 
toxin serums jwhich have proved so useful 
in the treatment of infectious disease. 
It is non-poisonous, but its administra- 
tion should always be carefully watched 
and be under the supervision of the 
physician, as undue excitement to cell 
life may result from too frequent or 

excessive dosage. It has been employed 

12 



178 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

with most satisfactory results in the treat- 
ment of diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, 
tonsilitis, tuberculosis, anaemia, and many 
other diseases. It must be borne in mind, 
however, that its utility is sadly impaired 
when constipation is present. 

Nuclein is insoluble in acid fluids, and 
is, therefore, quite inert while it remains 
in the stomach ; but on reaching the 
duodenum, or first portion of the intes- 
tinal canal, it passes into solution, when 
it can be readily absorbed by the blood. 
If it be mixed with dilute acid, phos- 
phoric acid is given oS ; whereas it readily 
dissolves in an alkaline fluid. 

In my opinion nuclein, as I have said 
already, not only acts most favourably upon 
the white corpuscles of the blood as a 
vitalising agent, but also tends to promote 
a marked increase in their numerical 
strength. It is not, therefore, difficult to 
comprehend how its presence in the 
blood will not only prove of the greatest 
service in the prevention of diseases such 



INFLUENZA 179 

as influenza, but also in the treatment 
of the malady. Moreover, upon its 
special properties the nervous apparatus 
is dependent to a large extent for its 
important functional activity. 

When, unfortunately, circumstances arise, 
as they frequently do, which interfere with 
the integrity of the blood to such an 
extent as to completely paralyse the 
minute warriors, disease germs assert 
themselves and take possession of the 
vital fluid, which under other conditions 
the leucocytes would have been quite 
able to defend against such an attack. 
It is then, primarily, to a vitiated state 
of the blood we must trace the prone- 
ness, not only to influenza, but to 
other diseases as well. Our duty, there- 
fore, is to conform as rigidly as possible 
to those laws the observance of which 
is essential if we hope to maintain a 
healthy condition of the blood. 

An impure blood supply acts preju- 
dicially in two ways first, as I have 



180 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

pointed out, by its toxic effect upon the 
" warrior cells " ; secondly, by the depress- 
ing influence it exerts upon the various 
organs of the body, so that in every way 
the tendency to contract disease is in- 
creased pro rata as the resisting power is 
diminished. We must never forget that 
the bacillus of influenza is an inveterate 
and persistent foe, to frustrate which we 
should always be on our guard. To 
carry out this injunction is no hardship, 
but, on the contrary, will conduce, and 
that to no small extent, both to the 
pleasures of life and to a healthy old 
age. My experience has taught me that 
influenza has invariably confined its 
ravages to those whose persistent neglect 
of dietetic, hygienic, and sanitary laws, 
either as a whole or in part, had pre- 
viously produced a vitiated condition of 
the blood, and that, on the other hand, 
obedience to these laws is invariably 
rewarded by continued health. 

Firstly, then, accommodate your diet to 



INFLUENZA 181 

your digestive powers, and see that it is 
composed of substances not liable, when 
in excess, to undergo noxious fermenta- 
tion in the intestinal canal, and lead to 
a consequent development of toxic fluids, 
which, when attention to the sanitary 
condition of the large intestine be neg- 
lected, are certain to be absorbed into 
the blood, in process of time transform- 
ing it from a healthy and disease-resisting 
fluid into a veritable receptacle for disease. 
Attention to this injunction, together with 
thorough ventilation, will prove to be the 
most efficient protective measures against 
influenza we can possibly adopt. A diet 
consisting largely, if not altogether, of 
vegetables, fruit, milk, eggs, bread, por- 
ridge, and cereals of all descriptions will 
not only be found to be easy of diges- 
tion and assimilation, but will also tend 
to promote that sanitary condition of the 
intestines which is so desirable. 

Secondly, in addition to what has been 
recommended, a bath every morning, after 



182 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

which a good rub down with a rough towel ; 
clean and sufficient clothing ; complete 
mastication of the food ; outdoor exercise ; 
well- ventilated sleeping and sitting-rooms. 

Thirdly, a pure water supply; a perfect 
drainage system ; avoiding overcrowding, 
and especially if ventilation be deficient, 
as, for instance, in railway carriages as 
at present constructed and heated, and in 
all public buildings wherein the atmo- 
sphere becomes laden with the emana- 
tions from the people present. 

There is no more potent predisposing 
cause to an attack of influenza than 
being pent up for a length of time in an 
overcrowded and badly ventilated limited 
space, especially if the insanitary condi- 
tion of the alimentary canal above men- 
tioned is coexistent. It must never be 
forgotten that those conditions of the atmo- 
sphere which we should shun on account 
of the pollutions it contains, while they 
open a pathway to an attack, yield potency 
and virulence to the invading bacillus. 



THE EVOLUTION OF THE 
CANCEE CELL 



CHAPTER VII 

THE EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 

IN normal circumstances the newly-born 
babe is an uncontaminated, plump, well- 
nourished, healthy individual. Every cell 
and every organ of the young body 
are in perfect order, and only require 
careful attention and guidance to enable 
them to continue so. The intestines, 
though laden with faecal matter, composed 
of bile and epithelial detritus, as we will 
perceive, is capable of harbouring and 
nourishing bacterial organisms, yet at birth 
is absolutely free from these. Within a 
few hours of birth, however, as Metch- 
nikofl: has pointed out, micro-organisms 
enter the intestine along with the air, 

185 



186 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

and also through the anus. In the 
course of the day, before the infant has 
taken any kind of nourishment, the con- 
tents of the bowel will be found to con- 
tain several varieties of micro-organisms 
of the bacterial order. Metchnikoff 
has demonstrated that under the in- 
fluence of the mother's milk these micro- 
organisms undergo a marked reduction, 
both in variety and number, until even- 
tually they are practically made up of 
only one species. Who, then, after this 
can deny that diet does exert a most 
potent influence upon the intestinal flora, 
and therefore upon the health of the in- 
dividual ? That such is the case receives 
further confirmation from the fact that 
when an infant is fed upon cow's milk, 
or other artificial diet, these organisms are 
not only in greater variety, but are far 
more numerous than when it is depen- 
dent upon the maternal supply. Later 
on, as the food varies in character, the 
numbers and variety of the intestinal bac- 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 187 

teria become still further augmented. It 
is quite evident, therefore, that the bacilli, 
dependent for their growth and prolifera- 
tion upon one kind of food mother's 
milk, for example exert in some mys- 
terious way a bactericidal effect upon 
other varieties, thus proving the powerful 
influence which diet exerts upon the 
presence of toxins within the alimentary 
canal, and, therefore, upon the health of 
the individual. Thus, if we select a diet 
which promotes the growth of an organism 
of a harmless nature, we may succeed in 
preventing the development of those other 
organisms which might prove inimical to 
health. It is evident that milk exerts a 
most beneficial effect in this direction, but 
much more so is this result attained when 
butter-milk, or milk that has been allowed 
to become sour, enters into the dietary. 
You may ask, What has all this to do with 
the evolution of the cancer cell ? I reply, 
It has not only much, but a great deal to do 
with it, as I hope to demonstrate later on. 



188 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

But to return to the new-born babe, 
which, though taking its origin from a 
single cell, and that of microscopic dimen- 
sions, has now become a composite body, 
made up, as some one has estimated, of 
24,000,000,000 cells. Now this is rather 
a large army to discipline and see that 
each unit is maintained in an efficient 
and healthy condition. Yet it is impera- 
tive that each unit of the enormous total 
be healthy and efficient if the healthy 
condition of the body available, which 
has been inaugurated at birth, is to 
continue. 

For the most part our body is made 
up of fluid material, and it is upon the 
physiological changes in the varieties of 
this fluid, which are constantly taking 
place, that maintenance or deterioration 
of health depends. It is hardly necessary 
for me to refer to the fact that by far 
the most important fluid constituent of 
the body, from which all the other fluids 
are derived, is the blood. It is, therefore, 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 189 

k-osolutely essential to the health of every 
individual cell that the blood be uncon- 
taminated by any form of impurity, 
whether such impurity be derived from 
food, water, air, or, what is probably as 
important as any of these, the alimentary 
canal. A merciful Providence .has sup- 
plied us with an unlimited supply of both 
clear water and fresh air, and if we take 
full advantage of these we shall have 
gone far towards the preservation of 
health. Indeed, I have no hesitation in 
affirming that many diseases would be- 
come non-existent were this course studi- 
ously followed. Disease germs are only 
rendered active and prejudicial to health 
when found in air and water contaminated 
by impurities, while the blood becomes 
unable to afford that resisting power to 
disease, which it primarily possesses, when 
it is impregnated by toxic matter absorbed 
from the intestinal canal. The impor- 
tance of pure air is proved by the various 
diseases contracted in the vitiated atmo- 



190 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

sphere so prevalent in badly ventilated 
enclosed spaces, such as railway carriages, 
public meeting-places, and more so in our 
own houses, especially when sewage con- 
tamination is coexistent. So far as pure 
water is concerned, we have only to recall 
such diseases as typhoid fever, cholera, 
diphtheria, and many others which directly 
result from a vitiated water or milk supply. 
Lastly, we have the various diseased con- 
ditions, which, to a large extent, are 
dependent in numberless instances upon 
the absorption of poisons generated in the 
intestines, especially when an unsuitable 
diet has been partaken of and constipation 
is coexistent. When we consider Metchni- 
koffs statement that "the bacteria of the 
human intestine increase at the rate of 
128,000,000,000,000 each day, the greater 
part being found in the large intestine," 
can we wonder that with such a poison 
factory within him man's life is prema- 
turely shortened? 

MetchnikoS's plan for correcting this 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 191 

appalling state of affairs is by a liberal 
supply of sour milk, the lactic acid of 
which is inimical to the growth of putre- 
factive bacteria. In this connection it 
must be borne in mind that lactic acid 
fermentation in milk is due to the pre- 
sence of a certain bacterium, which, as 
has been pointed out, though innocuous 
of itself, has the power of destroying 
that which is pernicious. Hence it would 
appear to be advisable that sour milk 
should enter largely into our dietary. 
Nor must we lose sight of the fact that 
milk, which has not undergone the pro- 
cess of fermentation, also contains bacteria 
which are not only benign in their 
nature, but which have also a destructive 
effect, though to a more limited extent, 
upon those which are prejudicial to 
health. These observations will prove of 
the utmost value if we will only devote 
to them careful consideration, " for man 
at present is out of harmony with his en- 
vironment, and the customs of civilisation 



192 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

have made demands on his animal frame 
beyond its power of contending with satis- 
factorily," the results being that most of 
the ills to which he is plausibly said to 
be heir, but which really are the direct 
consequence of his ignoring the beneficent 
laws of Nature, continue to hurry him to 
a premature grave. 

It will not be difficult to infer from the 
remarks that have preceded that healthy 
cell life is incompatible with an im- 
pure blood stream, from whatever source 
or combination of sources it may be 
derived. Now, if the various cells and 
organs of the body are for a lengthened 
period compelled to derive their nourish- 
ment from a vitiated blood supply, no 
matter what the pollution consists of, is 
it reasonable to expect that they will be 
able to continue in healthy vigour and be 
competent to carry on their various func- 
tions satisfactorily? Need we wonder if 
their physiological harmony is seriously 
interfered with, and that a spirit of 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCEB CELL 193 

mutiny should arise, just as in an army, 
for instance, when the food supply is 
considered defective, and that if matters 
are not speedily rectified this mutiny 
should spread till eventually the whole 
fabric is overthrown ? This condition will 
naturally be most pronounced in that par- 
ticular cellular tissue which possesses the 
most active propensities. Now, perhaps the 
most active, prolific, and versatile cell of 
the whole body is the epithelial cell, and 
it is to this, essentially, we must confine 
our attention in its relationship to cancer, 
as it is to a morbid metabolism of this cell 
that cancer is mainly due. The epithelial 
cell is possessed of enormous powers of 
reproduction, evidenced by the constant 
shedding and renewal of the epithelial layer 
of the skin and mucous membranes, while 
its activity is illustrated by the rapidity 
with which this process can be effected. 
Its versatility is demonstrated by the fact 
that, on the one hand, we are dependent 

upon it for the dense covering of the 

13 



194 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

whole body, which, though sensitive, 
through its nervous supply, to the 
slightest touch, yet is sufficiently protected 
from the hypersensitive soft tissue which 
lies immediately underneath. On the 
other hand, it constitutes the covering of 
the various mucous membranes, providing 
them with a power of secretion, not only 
of mucus to keep them moist, but also, 
in the air passages, with that antiseptic 
substance named mucin, which possesses 
such a potent effect upon any disease 
germs which may find access to the 
respiratory apparatus. In these positions 
the layer of epithelial cells are more or 
less opaque, but in the eye we find it is 
not only protective but absolutely trans- 
lucent. In one respect, however, it is 
always uniform that is, in its power of 
proliferation. 

If the blood be kept in a healthy condi- 
tion, barring accident, the epithelial tissue 
will, by virtue of the -suitability of the 
pabulum it relies upon for its nutrition 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 195 

and the nervous stimulus which is also 
essential to its well-being, continue in its 
healthy vital vigour, and perform its various 
functions in every respect satisfactorily. 
In order that this end may be attained, 
the strictest attention must necessarily be 
paid both to dietetic and hygienic laws, 
and, I need hardly add, if this attention 
is given which is not a difficult matter 
the reward will amply repay the effort 
put forth. 

Let us now consider the various effects 
of a contaminated blood stream upon the 
epithelial cell, the culminating point of 
the pollution resulting in cancer. In the 
first place, we must bear in mind that 
this cell is a highly complex entity, of 
wonderful architectural structure. In its 
normal condition it is enabled to furnish 
a complete armour capable of resisting 
the entrance of any object between its 
minute plates, the density of its surface 
being quite sufficient protection against 
the assaults of certain micro-organisms 



196 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

constantly present in the atmosphere 
which, when the health of the cell has 
suffered from any cause, frequently suc- 
ceed in obtaining a footing. We are all 
well aware of the fact that when one's 
health is below par, whether due to over- 
work or any other cause, the resisting 
power to disease is decreased, and Nature 
calls attention to this fact in various 
ways. Now, as health cannot suffer with- 
out every cell of the body being injuriously 
affected and its vitality lowered, we fre- 
quently find that the first note of warning 
Nature sounds to call attention to the 
fact consists in a loss of functional 
activity of the skin or mucous membranes 
which have suffered, either from impurities 
within the blood, the accumulation of which 
they have been unable to cope with, or 
from an enfeebled nervous stimulus which 
may, and does, arise from the same cause, 
or from a combination of the two. As a 
consequence, the epithelial cells covering 
these surfaces cease to mature properly, 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 197 

the result being an appreciable loss of 
density and compactness. This we see 
forcibly exemplified in that condition of the 
skin which favours the development of boils. 
These distressing affections are caused by 
the entrance of a certain microbe which, 
in the circumstances I have indicated, is 
enabled to penetrate the surface by 
way of the minute orifices through which 
the hairs emerge. Once it has gained 
admission the microbe becomes the parent 
of a colony, which sets up that intense 
irritation of the part and subsequent 
suppuration, a furuncle or boil. If means 
are not now adopted to restore the general 
health, and if friction be not avoided, the 
boil may proceed to a carbuncle. I would 
here like to add that one boil is frequently 
succeeded by a crop of this painful eruption 
in consequence of the practice of treating 
them by poulticing, which not only soddens 
the skin, thereby rendering it more prone 
to infection, but also promotes the develop- 
ment of the invading organism. 



198 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

An enfeebled state of health, as I have 
stated, is due to a loss of vital energy, 
which is reflected upon every cell of the 
body, and in its early stages is accompanied 
by a feeling of discomfort and oppression. 
If Nature's warning is left unheeded, other 
symptoms of graver import may speedily 
follow. This morbid condition may be due 
to many causes, such as mental strain, 
which invariably has a depressing effect 
upon the digestive organs as well as upon 
those of secretion and excretion. The 
body, therefore, ceases to be properly 
nourished, and the blood becomes loaded 
with the products of decomposition which 
are constantly being generated by the 
physiological changes continuously taking 
place in the various tissues of the body. 
The vitiated condition of the blood stream 
which naturally ensues, charged as it is 
with this toxic material, may produce such 
a debilitating effect upon the epithelial 
cells as to render them incapable of 
arriving at maturity, with the result 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 199 

that, instead of acquiring that horny 
character which fortifies them against the 
attack of external morbid influences, they 
succumb to their invasion, erosion of the 
surface of the skin being the result. In 
this way do we account for eczema and the 
intense irritation produced by it. On the 
other hand, certain impurities in the blood 
would seem to excite an undue proliferation 
of the epithelial cells forming the cuticle, 
giving rise to certain squamous diseases 
of the skin, of which Psoriasis is a good 
example. 

Errors in diet will also exercise an 
important influence upon healthy cell 
metabolism, and, therefore, upon the 
integrity of the skin, mucous membranes 
and other tissues. 

This is well exemplified in that bane 
of the sailor's life in years gone by. I 
refer to scurvy a disease of the skin and 
mucous membranes, which not infrequently 
proved fatal and scurvy was mainly due to 
the exclusion of vegetable matter from the 



200 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

dietary, thus proving how largely cell 
metabolism is dependent upon the vegetable 
kingdom for its healthy performance. No 
doubt the unwholesomeness of salt meat 
exerted an important influence also, but 
this only goes to demonstrate more forcibly 
the effect of diet upon healthy cell life. 
Eventually it was discovered that lime and 
lemon juice acted very beneficially both as 
a prophylactic and also as a curative agent 
in scurvy, thus placing beyond doubt the 
fact that the human body relies to a very 
considerable extent upon a fruitarian and 
vegetable diet, especially in an uncooked 
condition. 

Now the health of the body is, as I 
have stated, dependent upon the health 
of the cells of which it is composed. These 
cells, therefore, must be nourished in such 
a manner as will promote to the utmost 
their vital energy, and enable them not 
only to resist the invasion of disease germs, 
with which the human organism is perpetu- 
ally struggling, but also assist them to 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 201 

retain their harmonious relationship with 
each other. An enfeebled system is in- 
capable of withstanding infectious disorders. 
Eobust health is the best safeguard against 
disease, and this condition depends entirely 
upon the healthy vigour of the cells. The 
cells, therefore, must be our prime con- 
sideration, and must be fortified in every 
conceivable manner. Medicine, however, 
will not do this. No ; we must not only 
study, but really conform to those laws of 
Hygiene and Dietetics which Nature has 
instituted for our guidance, for the obser- 
vance of which she, if we are to keep 
ourselves up to the healthy standard, more- 
over, has provided ample means. 

The cancer cell would never come into 
existence at all did we obey these laws. , Ifr 
is important to J?ear in mind^ that, so far 
as our present knowledgejeaches us, cancer 
has not an infectious or contagious origin ; 
scientific investigation has, I think, placed 
this beyond all doubt. The cancer cell 
is primarily a normal cell that has rebelled 



202 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

against the persistent ill-usage it has been 
subjected to. In consequence of this it has 
gradually parted with its loyalty to those 
physiological laws which hitherto have 
regulated its cycle of life. We know it of 
old as an active, prolific, versatile, and 
adaptable cell. It can be successfully 
transplanted from one individual to 
another, and it is even capable of taking 
up a novel position, and carrying on its 
existence within a muscle, for example, 
when it has been carried into such a 
structure through a wound. Is it to be 
wondered at, then, that, as we know to our 
cost, a cell may, and does, frequently throw 
off its allegiance to those laws which 
govern healthy cell metabolism, take up 
a new rdle of existence and adopt cannibal 
proclivities, which it does when it develops 
into a cancer cell ? It then ceases to 
depend entirely upon its normal source of 
nourishment, but attacks and preys upon 
its neighbours, invading their domain and 
overrunning it with its malignant hosts. 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 203 

Eventually, if not arrested, it penetrates 
the lymphatic vessels, and thus reaches 
the neighbouring glands, setting up a new 
colony of cancer cells there, some of which 
make fresh inroads into more distant 
tissues. Not unfrequently it may eat its 
way into a blood-vessel, and thus be con- 
veyed to distant organs, there to set up 
another focus of disease, and so on, until 
the poor victim, worn out and wasted to 
a shadow, falls into a premature grave. 
This is a dark picture to present to your 
view ; but, fortunately, it need never be 
painted now. Even if it has been com- 
menced, it may be rubbed off the canvas, 
if only common sense be carefully exer- 
cised. 

My contention is, it will now be per- 
ceived, that the cancer cell is not due to 
the introduction of any agency, such as 

a microbe, from without, but is the direct 

_. ...... - - ' - - 

result of perverted nutrition ; and we know 
that certain effects upon animal life can 
be, and are not infrequently produced when 



204 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

a certain object is aimed at. Take, for 
example, the evolution of the queen bee, 
which is entirely due to the kind of nourish- 
ment supplied to it. Moreover, there is 
fairly conclusive evidence that every variety 
of plant owes its power of procreation to 
the fact that its progenitor has conveyed 
to the seed the power to select from its 
environment that form of nourishment, 
and no other, which conduces to the 
development of the peculiar form and 
characteristics of its ancestor. That these 
can be improved upon by careful cultiva- 
tion is apparent on every hand, while 
neglect will have an opposite effect. The 
lack of attention, therefore, to those laws 
which regulate healthy cell life cannot but 
result most disastrously, sooner or later, 
and it is only because Nature is so forbear- 
ing that it is not invariably sooner than 
later that she rebels. 

One notable characteristic of animal life 
is the constantly living, growth and death 
of the cells, which is followed by the dead 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 205 

cells being removed and replaced by others 
of a like nature, and fulfilling the same 
functions. This we call cell metabolism. 
To enable this process to be continuous, 
a suitable nourishment must be at the 
disposal of the cell, and not only this, 
but an efficient nerve stimulus must also 
be simultaneously supplied. Wholesome 
food, in fact, is a sine qua non. The 
food is taken into the stomach in a 
fluid or semi-fluid form, or, at any rate, 
this should be its condition before it 
enters the stomach, and this will be its 
condition if complete mastication is en- 
forced. In the stomach and duodenum the 
food undergoes a process of decomposition, 
which we term digestion, after which what 
is superfluous or useless passes through 
the intestines, while that which is to be 
applied to the nourishment of the body 
is taken up by the lacteal vessels and 
transformed into blood. Then, by a won- 
derful network of tubes and tubules, said 
to extend to 2,000 miles in length, the 



206 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

vivifying fluid is distributed to every part 
of the body, supplying nourishment and 
repair to muscle, bone, integument, nails, 
hair, the internal organs, and last, but by 
no means least, to that marvellous and com- 
plex apparatus which we know as the ner- 
vous system, which permeates and exerts 
its potent influence upon every organ and 
cell of the body, receiving from these 
certain important influences in return. 
Another necessity for healthy metabolism 
is an abundance of fresh air, which not 
only purifies the blood, but, in the process, 
supplies animal heat ; to deprive the 
lungs, even for a few minutes, of air 
proves fatal. If to these two favourable 
conditions we add a copious supply of 
pure water, which should be freely and 
unsparingly applied both internally and 
externally, we possess all that is necessary 
to sustain health and life in a perfect con- 
dition with this proviso, that there be 
constantly present an abundance of sun- 
light which, as we know, is just as essential 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 207 

to the well-being of the animal as to that of 
the vegetable kingdom. 

Let us now consider in what consists the 
essential product of this combination of 

"*~~ ' " 'J-U^^ta, - - .-'.."' 

factors, which is the vital agent con- 
cerned in the preservation of healthy 
cell life. There are distributed through- 
out the trunk, head, and neck certain 
glandular organs whose secretion have an 
important influence in this direction. This 
secretion, known as nuclein, is not only W 
essential to the well-Bemg" of the gland 
itself, of which it forms an important con- 
stituent, but also performs an important 
office by virtue of its vitalising effect 
upon the white corpuscles of the blood 
and every other cell of the body, those 
of the nervous system included. More- 
over, the individual cells themselves would 
appear also to possess the power of secret- 
ing nuclein, though perhaps not in suffi- 
cient quantity to supply the full amount 
necessary to meet their requirements. It 
goes without saying, therefore, that, if the 



208 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

cellular tissue is to be maintained in a 
healthy condition, the supply of nuclein 
must be ample. 

I should mention that besides imparting 
vigour and vital energy to the body as a 
whole, nuclein also has an antiseptic effect 
upon toxic matter which may gain access 
to the blood by any channel, be it the skin, 
the air passages, the stomach, or the large 
intestine, thus inhibiting to a large extent 
the evil consequences that might otherwise 
supervene. From my platform of experi- 
ence, I am inclined to look upon the large 
intestine as the most pregnant of all these 
sources of blood contamination, especially, 
as I have frequently pointed out, when 
constipation is present. Now, the con- 
tents of the colon tend to be more or 
less of a noxious character according to 
the diet indulged in. The more simple 
and rational the diet the less menacing 
are the intestinal contents, and, therefore, 
the less liability is there to putrefactive 
infection. There is, however, another im- 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 209 

portant advantage accruing from a diet 
which is in direct accord with what 
Nature has provided for our food which 
is, that it favours not only a more sani- 
tary condition, but a healthier activity of 
the colon. On the other hand, more luxu- 
rious living, especially when a large amount 
of flesh meat is consumed, not only over- 
loads the stomach with an excess of un- 
wholesome material, with which it is 
impossible for its digestive power to con- 
tend efficiently, but, at the same time, 
provides materials which undergo a highly 
noxious fermentation when they reach the 
colon. This invariably results in the 
development of innumerable poisonous 
organisms, which, finding entrance into 
the blood, impair its vital energy to a 
very serious extent, and, when in exces- 
sive numbers, simultaneously prostrate the 
physiological activity of every blood cor- 
puscle, cell, and organ of the microcosm. 
In consequence of this the general health 

becomes impaired, and the resisting power 

14 



210 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

to disease markedly reduced. Now, if these 
conditions are supplemented by an unsani- 
tary environment, in which may be included 
a vitiated atmosphere, a polluted water 
supply, neglect of cleanliness, insufficient 
clothing, exposure to cold, and so on, it 
will not be difficult to comprehend that 
much more disastrous results will, as a 
matter of course, inevitably ensue. 

It is impossible to over-estimate the value 
of nuclein as a pre-eminent factor not only 
in its relationship to the preservation of 
healthy cell life, but as indispensable in 
the struggle that is constantly going on 
against disease germs. It stands to reason 
that if the blood is continuously being over- 
charged with toxic material, from whatever 
source this may be derived and once more 
I maintain most emphatically that the most 
important origin we have to take into 
account is the large intestine the func- 
tional activity of the various organs which 
provide nuclein must of necessity become 
seriously handicapped, and the amount of 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCEK CELL 211 

their secretion be accordingly reduced not 
only in quantity, but in quality also. From 
the same cause the vital energy of the 
nervous system will necessarily become 
impaired, and, therefore, the stimulus 
supplied to organic life, which is essential 
to every organ and tissue, will be seriously 
interfered with. Thus, the whole animal 
organism suSers from the same cause, 
for it should be borne in mind that the 
potentiality of the nuclein is limited. 

For years past various gland substances, 
derived from animals, have been utilised in 
the treatment of disease, and, as we know, 
with considerable benefit, thus proving to 
what an incalculable extent the health of 
the body is dependent upon the abundant 
and healthy secretion of these organs. As 
we have seen, however, that both the func- 
tional activity of these organs, as well as 
that of the nervous system, are entirely 
dependent upon a pure and abundant blood 
supply, and that these desirable conditions 
can only be maintained by a strict adher- 



212 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

ence and obedience to dietetic and hygienic 
laws as we so habitually do ? As I have 
repeatedly affirmed, there is no reason what- 
ever for the amount of disease that at 
present prevails, and is constantly bringing 
life to an untimely end. 

Nature has amply provided the human 
body with means to successfully combat 
disease, but it is essential that we should 
not thwart her mandates. Moreover, she 
has not been parsimonious with her gifts, 
but has furnished sufficient provision to 
guard against risks that may arise from 
accidental infringement of her commands. 
This is every day apparent in the recupera- 
tive and healing powers she bestows, so 
that, really, she cannot be said to draw 
any hard-and-fast lines. She is most 
orderly in her methods, every organ and 
tissue having their particular duty to 
perform. As we have seen, there is a 
common product secreted by the cells of 
various organs, but that it is of uniform 
physiological potentiality is, I think, 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 213 

doubtful, though in two respects it would 
appear to be consistent, and these are its 
antagonism to disease germs and its power 
of affording nourishment to the white 
corpuscles and the nervous system. It 
would appear that while it nourishes the 
latter, the secretion from certain organs 
influences its vital energy in given lines, 
and that which concerns us most at 
present is the effect the secretion of the 
thyroid produces upon those nerves which 
control healthy cell metabolism. That 
the thyroid gland is intimately associated 
with this has been demonstrated times 
without number, and it is interesting to 
note that epitherium depends to a very 
large extent, if not altogether, upon the 
condition of this important organ, and 
therefore upon its secretion. Many 
diseases have been proved to be closely 
connected with the departure of the thy- 
roid gland from the healthy standard, and 
have disappeared under the administration 
of the uncooked gland of other animals, 



214 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

for cooking, be it borne in mind, inva- 
riably destroys the therapeutic properties 
of these substances. It is interesting 
also to note that when the normal epithe- 
lial cell has been deprived of this whole- 
some influence, it manifests a marked 
tendency to adopt a depraved form of 
existence, the most serious of which con- 
sists in a morbid change in metabolism. 
As I have already pointed out, it severs 
itself from those physiological laws which 
hitherto have regulated its cycle of life, 
and, taking advantage of its inherent, 
vigorous, active, and prolific endowments, 
casts off its benign nature, and becomes 
a malignant cell. Thereafter, setting up 
a colony opposed to healthy discipline, it 
prostrates, invades, and transforms into 
its own debased condition the neighbour- 
ing tissues. This we recognise as that 
dreadful scourge cancer. We perceive 
thus that cancer is not the result of a 
microbe or parasite, as some have sup- 
posed, and which not a few continue to 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 215 

maintain, but is due to a perverted cell 
development resulting from a persistent 
ignoring of those laws which otherwise 
would have constrained the now diseased 
cell to retain its loyalty and allegiance. 
Cancer is Nature's protest against disobe- 
dience, and the penalty she imposes upon 
those who, though, perhaps, more from 
the force of habit than knowingly or 
willingly, have ignored her teachings. 

During the period, now extending over 
twenty years, that I have devoted special 
attention to this subject, with ample 
opportunity at my command for observa- 
tion, I have never met with a single 
instance where constipation did not co- 
exist, and, moreover, had not been in 
evidence for a lengthened period prior to 
the manifestation of the disease. Further- 
more, I do not believe that a normal cell 
will ever tend to develop a proneness 
to depart from its wonted integrity, or 
to sever its original relationship to its 
neighbours so long as the sanitary con- 



216 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

dition of the large intestine is main- 
tained. 

Did not Solomon say, "Go to the ant, 
thou sluggard; consider her ways and be 
wise" ? He might have added with ad- 
vantage, Go to the beasts of the field, the 
fowls of the air, the fish of the sea, and 
even crawling things, for a lesson in com- 
mon sense, and take an example from 
them in sanitary matters, and not 
harbour in your insides offensive and 
disease-generating material which you 
would not tolerate for a moment within 
range of your vision or olfactory nerves. 

It will thus be perceived that the 
advent or prevention of cancer is entirely 
in our own hands, and I look forward 
to the time, and that at no distant date, 
when the attention of every one will be so 
forcibly directed to the subject that the 
disease will simply become non-existent. 
Prevention is always better than cure. 
Although I have had ample evidence of 
the curability of cancer during the past 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCEE CELL 217 

fifteen years, what I aim at is to rouse 
the attention of the public, and point with 
every confidence to the fact yes, fact 
that with due attention to dietetic and 
hygienic laws, not only cancer, but other 
diseases as well, will speedily disappear 
from our vocabulary. 

In conclusion, permit me to endeavour 
to reply to a question, which I am con- 
scious some of you may feel inclined to 
put to me, seeing that I have laid so 
much emphasis upon the importance of 
nuclein as a vitalising agent. You would 
ask me, What is nuclein, or, at all events, 
what is your definition of it ? Nuclein 
I would define as the vital principle upon 
which every cell of the body is dependent 
for its existence as a living organism; 
nay, more, nuclein may even prove to 
be intrinsically life itself. It has been 
said that "the blood is the life," and 
doubtless, as being the vehicle by which 
nuclein is conveyed to the various tissues 
of the body, blood may have a claim to 



218 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

be so considered. But when we bear in 
mind that life is capable of existing 
without the presence of blood, it can 
hardly, in truth, be conceded that the 
blood is the life. Consider, for example, 
the germ from which life, both in 
animals and plants, takes its origin. This 
contains blood in no solitary instance, 
but it invariably contains nuclein. It is 
due to the presence of this nuclein, 
this vitalising agent, that the germ, when 
the conditions are favourable, is enabled 
to germinate, and afterwards to develop 
into the animal or tree or plant, as the 
case may be. Moreover, it is due to the 
peculiar proclivities inherited from its 
ancestor that influences reproduction of 
the peculiarities and characteristics of the 
structure that eventually is evolved. As 
development proceeds nuclein increases 
pari passii) but its nature remains stable, 
and never parts with the endowments it 
has received from its progenitor. Thus, 
this subtle essence, if it may not lay 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 219 

claim to be the life, may certainly yet 
be recognised as the medium by which 
life is originated and maintained, and 
not only the life but the characteristic 
attributes of that life. That nuclein is 
capable of reproduction is beyond doubt ; 
also that it is the inherent property of 
each individual cell, and by virtue of its 
nature both emanates from it and again 
reacts upon it in a vitalising manner. 

It must be remembered that nuclein 
pervades everything endowed with life, 
from the tiniest fungus to the massive 
oak, from the microscopic animalcule to 
the monstrous pachyderm of the forest, 
throughout the whole vegetable and animal 
kingdom. Essentially, it retains its identity 
wherever it exists that is to say, it is the 
embodiment of life in all. That it diSers, 
however, in potentiality is evidenced on 
all hands by the variety of animals pro- 
duced and maintained through its influence. 
If we examine certain seeds, such as those 
of the fig and cress, for example seeds of 



220 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

very different members of the vegetable 
kingdom it is impossible to say which 
is which, however rigid may be our 
examination. Yet if these, apparently 
identical, be placed in a similar soil, sur- 
rounded by the same influences, and sub- 
jected to the same sunlight, and watered 
by the same rain, how different are the 
results ! Yet the life of each is dependent 
upon the vivifying influence of an identical 
agent, though endowed with different 
powers in the two instances. These two 
different potentialities continue, from gene- 
ration to generation, to be exercised in the 
direction which has been followed without 
deviation from parent to offspring through- 
out the ages, and in one direction only. 
Notwithstanding this, however, we will 
find that in the human body, where a 
toxic condition of the blood has produced 
a debilitating effect upon those glands 
which secrete nuclein, upon which not 
only the glands themselves, but every 
other cell, depend, to a greater or lesser 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 221 

extent, for assistance in the performance 
of their functional activity, the organs can 
be materially assisted out of their difficulty 
by nuclein, derived from vegetable or other 
sources, being administered. It will, no 
doubt, appear strange to some, at least 
when I state that the most prolific source 
of supply of this agent, for commercial 
purposes, is the microscopic yeast fungus, 
whose power of procreation in a suit- 
able medium only however, is enormous. 
Vegetables of all descriptions, especially 
what w r e may term root vegetables, contain, 
as may be supposed, a considerable amount 
of nuclein, but if these are cooked in the 
ordinary way, not only is this vital prin- 
ciple destroyed, but their nutritive power 
also, and, at the same time, the vegetable 
is rendered more indigestible. The same 
observation applies to fruit and also to 
butcher meat. But, one may inquire, in 
what manner does nuclein act as an anti- 
septic, and thus become of importance as 
a foe to disease germs which may have 



222 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

gained access to the blood ? In reply, I 
would state that this is due to a chemical 
agent produced by nuclein viz., nucleinic 
acid, which not only is powerfully antiseptic 
but also provides a healthy stimulus to the 
cells, and thus promotes in them healthy 
metabolic changes. Moreover, it removes 
effete matter without hurt, but, as we 
have seen, with benefit to the healthy 
structure. 

Thus we perceive that nuclein is not only 
an essential agent in the cycle of life in 
man and beast, but also takes its place 
as a most valuable therapeutic agent when 
derived from other sources. 

From the foregoing remarks it will be 

'***" 1 ^M^* ll "*""""'*'^^* >l ** **"*^ M |^PWWB fc ^^** < "" **' """"""'" 

perceived that the conclusion I have 
arrived at is, that the cancer cell owes 
its origin, and that in a direct line, to 
a normal cell, this having undergone a 
morbid metamorphosis consequent upon 
protracted malnutrition. On the other 
hand, it is maintained by certain writers on 
the subject that the source of cancer is an 



EVOLUTION OF THE CANCER CELL 223 

embryonic cell which hitherto has remained 
in a latent condition. How, then, are we 
to account for the fact that cancer is a 
curable disease when healthy cell meta- 
bolism is restored ? Or is the hypothesis 
based on the fact that, in the condition 
of the blood which promotes the develop- 
ment of cancer this, not infrequently, is 
marked by a tendency for the mature cell 
to revert to its embryonic condition ? 
This, I do not deny, may appear as a 
concomitant in the morbid metamorphosis, 
but that it is primarily the progenitor of 
the active cancer cell I fail to apprehend, 
or how would it be possible otherwise to 
recognise it? It may be, however, that 
those who have advanced this theory have 
been unaware of the fact that in circum- 
stances which prove unfavourable to 
healthy metabolism there is established 
a tendency for certain cells to assume 
the embryonic form, while others arrogate 
to themselves an aggressive form of 
conduct. By this process of reasoning, 



224 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

and this only, -am I able to account for 
the presence of embryonic cells in cancer 
tissue in the few instances in which they 
have been recognised. 



THE OEIGIN AND THERAPEUTICS 
OP CANCER 



15 



CHAPTEK VIII 

THE OEIGIN AND THEEAPEUTICS OF CANCEB 

THE study of cancer, as we know, is one 
of growing importance, and to which it is 
impossible to devote too much careful 
attention. In the endeavour to do justice 
to so momentous a subject it is incumbent 
upon us to make ourselves intimately 
acquainted not only with its aetiology 
(causation) but with those diagnostic 
features which differentiate it from affec- 
tions presenting a somewhat similar ap- 
pearance to the eye and touch. Now this 
is not always quite as simple a matter as 
some may imagine, and more especially in 
the initial stage of the disease. For ex- 
ample, several instances have come under 



227 



228 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

my observation during the past few 
months, where cancer of the mamma has 
been stated to exist diagnosed would be 
an improper term and where immediate 
operation had been urged by well-known 
surgeons, but on further examination the 
tumours proved to be simple adenomata, 
and readily yielded to a much more 
rational line of treatment. It is not 
always wise, therefore, to assume that 
because a tumour appears in an organ 
which is known to be susceptible to 
cancer, that it is necessarily of a malig- 
nant type. There may be a possibility 
certainly though the probability is re- 
mote that, later on, it may develop 
malignancy. It is, I am sure, because 
this mistake in diagnosis is so frequently 
made that we hear occasionally of non- 
recurrence after operation. On the other 
hand, when the diagnosis has proved to 
have been correct, and the tumour to be 
cancer, recurrence is inevitable, and, I 
venture to add, it will be difficult to con- 



THE OKIGIN OF CANCER 229 

test this assertion for the cogent reason 
that it is a fact. How can it be other- 
wise, when we know that in the 
majority of instances an injury is the ex- 
citing cause of cancer the predisposing 
cause being so far latent in each instance 
and when we realise that a much greater 
injury is inflicted by the mutilation of the 
parts, which is necessarily the accompani- 
ment of an operation of such magnitude? 
It is a noteworthy fact that the recur- 
rence invariably manifests its presence 
primarily in the weakest structure, viz., 
the cicatrix, and thence radiates to the 
enfeebled tissues in its immediate neigh- 
bourhood. Having admittedly such ample 
evidence of the mischief the knife inflicts 
in malignant disease, and knowing that in 
no instance can it possibly hold out the 
remotest prospect of conferring any benefit 
whatever, but on the contrary invariably 
shortens life and aggravates suSering, how 
can any right-thinking man deceive both 
himself and his patients by having re- 



230 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

course to it. No ; our line of duty points 
to our employing unremitting effort to 
discover a more rational method of deal- 
ing with this formidable disease. In our 
endeavour, then, to attain this desired end, 
it is essential in the first instance that 
we devote the most careful study to its 
natural history. Doubtless, without fear 
of contradiction, we may now assume that 

cancer is not due to a parasite of one 

- .. .- . . . 

kind or another, as so many, og^jLJl^- 
reMcallyliowever, have persistently main- 
tained. This theory I have no hesitation 
in averring has been exploded by authori- 
ties whose conclusions are based upon 
much more substantial foundations than 
the advocates of the microbic or parasitic 
theories are entitled to build upon. We 
therefore are left no resource but to search 
for an explanation of the incidence of 
cancer in hitherto untrodden fields of in- 
vestigation. In this we must of necessity 
be guided to a great extent by noting the 
pathogenic conditions which, as far as we 



THE ORIGIN OF CANCER 231 

can judge, lead up to its development. 
We will require also carefully to observe 
those surroundings which we know obtain 
where the predisposition to cancer is ab- 
sent. We are aware, for instance, of the 
very striking circumstance that it is un- 
duly prevalent in civilised nations, and 
still more so in proportion to the extent 
that luxury and self-indulgence prevails. 
Metchnikoff says : " The refinements of 
civilisation has made the demands on 
man's animal frame too heavy to meet; 
and to this we may trace at least most of 
the ills man is heir to." Among savages 
cancer has been proved to be non-existent. 
We cannot, therefore, but admit that our 
mode of life exercises a considerable in- 
fluence in its causation. Moreover, in 
wild animals it is unknown, yet it would 
appear to assert its presence in animals 
and even in fish whose lives are spent in 
the neighbourhood or under the influence 
of man. That the tumours in these in- 
stances are identical with cancer in the 



232 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

human subject I am inclined to doubt, and 
for this reason that in store-fed cattle, 
for example, the disease, designated as 
cancer whatever be its nature does not 
seem to afiect the nutrition of the animal, 
whereas in man it always does so very 
markedly. I have known cases where 
attenuation was so rapid that the patients 
lost flesh at an alarming rate. One case 
is present to my mind where the loss of 
weight was three stones in as many 
months. Again, we should not lose sight 
of the fact, that the growths which de- 
velop in animals only occur when they are 
overfed, and upon materials which differ 
substantially from their natural food. This 
applies equally to fishes in a river or 
estuary into which all sorts of extraneous 
matter is emptied, much of which is con- 
sumed by the fish. This being foreign to 
their normal requirements, and therefore 
unsuitable to them as healthy nutriment, 
and, moreover, being superabundant, will 
eventually act detrimentally upon their 



THE ORIGIN OF CANCER 233 

organs of digestion and assimilation, thus 
upsetting their physiological equilibrium 
and so give rise to abnormal cell meta- 
bolism. 

We seem impelled, therefore, to the 
inference at all events, if not to the con- 
clusion, that the mode of life plays a most 
important rdle in the production of cancer. 
That it is a disease quite independent of 
any specific agent from without is beyond 
dispute. We have no choice, therefore, 
but to search for its causation within the 
body itself, and endeavour to ascertain in 
what consists the influences which so inter- 
fere with normal cell metabolism as to 
enable certain cells to assume a character 
altogether at variance with that of the 
normally conducted cells from which they 
sprung and of which they are the direct 
descendants. With this change they would 
appear to have dissociated themselves and 
severed their allegiance to those physio- 
logical laws which regulate those meta- 
bolic phenomena characteristic of normal 



234 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

cell life. Ultimately they develop a morbid 
influence which is inimical to the inte- 
grity of the tissue from which they 
emanate, and by which they are encom- 
passed. 

Having separated themselves from those 
laws which control and govern healthy 
metabolism, they eventually become a law 
unto themselves, and establish a potency 
quite foreign to that of healthy cells. 
Their instincts, it would appear, have 
undergone a complete metamorphosis, for 
in place of deriving nourishment from a 
normal source, they commence to prey 
upon their neighbours, and, devouring 
these, replace them by their own voracious 
progeny, which continue to increase in 
numbers at an alarming rate, involving 
successive areas, and, by the lymphatic 
channels, extend their sphere of influence, 
establishing new centres of disease in 
neighbouring glands and distant tissues. 
Meanwhile the vile juices, which these 
cannibal cells throw off, contaminate the 



THE ORIGIN OF CANCER 235 

blood with their poison, when the con- 
quest becomes complete. 

Now arises the question. What are the 
predisposing causes which, if not sup- 
pressed or overcome in the initial stage 
of their activity, will eventually culminate 
in a calamity ? Can they be restrained, 
and can they be conquered ? I have no 
hesitation in replying in the affirmative to 
both questions. It is needless for me to 
enter fully into the pathogenesis and 
pathology of cancer at this time of day, 
seeing these subjects have been amply 
dealt with in my book, published three 
and a half years ago, but I will just 
touch upon one or two points of interest, 
which I am convinced bear to an im- 
portant extent upon the pathogenesis of 
the disease. 

The organs of the human body are only 
capable of accomplishing a limited amount 
of work, and though more elastic than an 
ordinary machine, yet when persistently 
overtaxed they eventually are liable to 



236 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

succumb, and especially will this prove 
to be the case if they are handicapped 
by certain important hygienic laws being 
continuously ignored which laws, when 
in force, act as safety valves. If, for 
example, an individual and there are 
many such will persist in indulging too 
freely at the table, thereby habitually 
burdening the stomach with more work 
than it can efficiently and advantageously 
perform, the functional activity of the 
organ will, as a matter of course, speedily 
be reduced to a dangerous extent, when 
a larger proportion of the ingested, but 
not digested food, will find its way into 
the colon in a decomposed and highly 
offensive condition. If, however, the 
effete matter is discharged without delay, 
possibly little mischief beyond a slight 
amount of discomfort may result. On 
the other hand, however, if the colon and 
rectum, from lack of expulsive power 
and this is as a rule due to neglect 
should be so tolerant of this foetid 



THE ORIGIN OF CANCER 237 

material as to permit of its retention for 
a longer period than is desirable, then 
absorption of toxic material is sure to 
take place, resulting in contamination of 
the blood stream and deterioration of its 
essential constituents. The consequence 
is, physiological sequence is liable to 
occur in an erratic manner, and the 
various organs are rendered incapable of 
remaining true to their vital relationship 
with those organs and tissues which are 
subordinate to them. Especially does this 
condition of the blood seem to act pre- 
judicially upon the thyroid gland, which 
we know in its active condition exercises 
a most important influence upon cell 
metabolism. Now if this organ, for a 
lengthened period, continues to receive its 
blood supply from a vitiated source, it 
not only loses its functional activity but 
gradually undergoes an atrophic change, 
and consequently is liable to become 
permanently disabled; and it has been 
demonstrated that atrophy, or at least a 



238 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

diminution in size of this gland is, as a 
rule, coincident with the advent of 
cancer. 

Now, from my point of view, if a person 
is a gross feeder, and more so if he indulges 
to excess in animal food, and if there is 
superadded a constipated habit, which 
has such a pernicious eSect upon the 
thyroid gland, we may conclude there are 
present the three most important factors 
whose combined influence is sufficient to 
provoke a tendency to the development 
of cancer. 

"'Recent research, as we have observed, 
has shown that the bacteria of the 
human intestine increase at the rate of 
128,000,000,000,000 each day, the greater 
part being found in the large intestine. " 
Can we be surprised, then, that with such 
a poison factory within him, that the blood 
will become sadly vitiated, and the normal 
processes of the economy be injuriously 
affected, if constipation is coexistent ? The 
longer this offensive material is retained 



THE ORIGIN OF CANCER 



239 



the more obnoxious it will become, and its 
toxic effect increased pro rata. 

Now, it has been demonstrated that 
the secretion of the thyroid gland exerts 
an inhibitive influence upon this toxic 
matter when absorbed, so it is not difficult 
to comprehend that if its vital force is 
reduced, how very serious a menace to 
health constipation will become. jThe 
first principle, then, we must inculcate, 
when both the prevention and tf^Mffigg^ 

of cancer is under consideration, _is to 

insist upon a complete daily evacuation 
of the bowels; second, that the diet be 
restricted to the actual requirements of 
the body and the capabilities of the 
digestive organs ; that butcher meat be 
barred and a vegetarian diet be relied 
upon to a large extent. Thirdly, that the 
defective action ofthe thyroid be supple- 
mented by the administration of the gland 
of healthy animals, or the active principle 
ofjjhe gland, at least three times daily. 
Thyrocol is what I rely upon. This is 



240 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

prepared and dispensed in palatinoids, 
each containing an equivalent of five 
grains of the gland substance. Fourthly, 
as saccharomyces are invariably present in 
the blood in cancer subjects, and as these 
act injuriously in inducing fermentative 
changes upon the absorbed enterotoxins, 
these should be destroyed by giving ten 
to fifteen grains of salicylate of soda ^or 
aspirin thrice daily along with a thyroid 
preparation. ... 

In parentheses permit me to make a 
few observations regarding this thyroid 
gland, the functions of which have only 
been understood within recent years, and 
yet it is now recognised as one of the 
most important organs in the body. Be- 
fore physiological research had demon- 
strated the hitherto undiscovered virtues 
of this gland, which is situated on the 
anterior aspect of the neck, its principal 
interest centred in the fact that it was 
the seat of goitre, this disease consisting 
in an enlargement of the thyroid gland. 



THE ORIGIN OF CANCER 241 

Now, we know that the thyroid is con- 

r-" 

cerned in a great many diseases, the most 
important of which is cancer, when we 
invariably find the gland has become 
atrophied or shrunken. In diabetes, on 
the other hand, it frequently shows 
symptoms of fatty degeneration. 

It exerts a most powerful influence in 
preserving the purity of the blood stream, 
which is accomplished by a destructive 
or neutralising power it exerts upon 
poisonous material that may have gained 
access, by absorption, into the vital fluid. 
To enable it to perform this duty more 
efficiently, as one observer has stated, the 
blood performs two circuits through the 
thyroid before its return to the heart 
thus there is afforded a double opportunity 
to exercise its cleansing effect. 

The thyroid, however, exercises other 
most important sway in the economy of 
Nature. To its healthy influence is due 
the integrity of cell life, and when we 

come to consider that each cell of the 

16 



242 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

body, minute though it be, is a distinct 
entity, and, unless under proper control, 
liable to depart from the normal to an 
abnormal condition, which, as we know, 
means disease, we can readily comprehend 
how important a place the thyroid gland 
occupies in the anatomy of all animals. 

If the uterus is the seat of disease, the 
parts should be kept scrupulously clean 
by douching, after which a tampon, 
saturated in a 10 per cent, solution of 
ichthyol in glycerine, should be introduced, 
and renewed every twenty-four hours for a 
week or two, and afterwards at longer 
intervals. 



IS OPEEATION JUSTIFIABLE IN 
CANCEB ? 



CHAPTEE IX 

IS OPEBATION JUSTIFIABLE IN CANCEB ? 

THE question of the day, with regard to 
cancer, is, Are we to continue to be 
bound hand and foot by prejudice? Is 
the endeavour to solve the problem, which 
for so long a period has exercised the 
scientific world, to be frustrated by such 
considerations? Is the public welfare to 
be sacrificed in order that a few men may 
be permitted to perform operations which 
it is well known only shorten life and 
aggravate suffering ? Why, the very 
nature of the disease contra-indicates 
operation, and this has been amply con- 
firmed by sad experience. Were it a 
local disease and nothing more, were there 
no blood contamination lurking behind, 



245 



246 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

then surgical interference would be war- 
ranted nay, more, it would be wrong not 
to resort to it. But when we know for a 
fact that primarily this fluid is the nidus 
of the disease, and it is to this fact our 
chief attention should be directed, and 
that the surgeon only deals with a local 
manifestation of this, it does not require 
a high intelligence to conclude that tem- 
porary, and often very transitory relief to 
a symptom can in no instance succeed in 
removing the disease, of which the local 
manifestation is only an outcrop. More- 
over, cancer is a preventible disease, 
resulting in every instance from a contra- 
vention of hygienic and physiological laws. 
The local affection, or cancerous growth, 
can only manifest its presence and develop 
its malignancy when the part has been 
previously weakened by injury, or expo- 
sure to other depressing agencies. How, 
then, can we reasonably expect a satisfac- 
tory result, if we still further induce weak- 
ness by cutting and hacking the tissues, 



IS OPERATION JUSTIFIABLE? 247 

which cannot be avoided during the pro- 
cess of removing what can only be looked 
upon as a symptom, though certainly a 
most prominent development, but in no 
instance does it represent the disease as 
a whole. The consequence is, the disease, 
in a very short space of time, reappears 
with renewed virulence in the mutilated 
part, and speedily rages with increased 
potency, the progress of the local mischief 
being much more rapid and painful than 
if the parts had been left alone. The 
suSerings of the patient are, in conse- 
quence, intensified, and life shortened, 
which, in the circumstances, is perhaps 
just as well. On the other hand, had the 
disease been treated by rational measures, 
which consist in endeavouring to restore 
the physiological reciprocity which exists 
between the various organs, and which at 
all times must exist when perfect health 
obtains, how diSerent would the result 
have been to the poor patient ! The sur- 
geon certainly might have suffered in his 



248 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

purse, but, on the other hand, that of the 
general practitioner would have been re- 
plenished, if that is of any moment. But 
what is of paramount importance is, the 
patient would have been delivered from 
all this torment, and his or her life pro- 
longed, had his adviser not been fettered by 
custom and drugged by prejudice. And if 
it is of consequence to the family atten- 
dant, he would be recompensed for services 
rendered, and deservedly so, for he would 
have been enabled to treat his patient, 
himself, hygienically upon lines which 
would hold out infinitely greater hope 
than surgery could ever profess to do. I 
make this statement unreservedly, be- 
cause I maintain that salvation is quite 
possible, even in advanced cases, and 
ahnost certain if the case is brought 
under treatment in the early stages of the 
Disease. I certainly am not acquainted 
with any remedy that will act upon the 
diseased tissue and destroy it by direct 
action, though there are certain agents 



IS OPEKATION JUSTIFIABLE? 249 

which will materially assist in accomplish- 
ing this desirable end. I affirm, however, 
that the constitutional measures which I 
advocate will most assuredly produce a 
most favourable effect upon the normal 
cellular tissue immediately surrounding 
the diseased structure, which will thereby 
be endowed with sufficient vital energy to 
enable it to withstand the cannibal propen- 
sities of the disease. Now, as the spread 
of a cancerous tumour depends upon its 
ability to invade and utilise for nourish- 
ment the tissues immediately in contact 
with it, and which its immediate prox- 
imity to has enfeebled, it is not unrea- 
sonable to infer that, if it is unable to 
avail itself of this, its progress must, as 
a consequence, become arrested, and this 
because it will necessarily succumb to starva- 
tion. In process of time, therefore, it will be 
absorbed and cast off as effete matter. Now 
the line of treatment which I have formu- 
lated and adopted accomplishes this a fact 
which has frequently been demonstrated. 



250 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

Permit me to quote the following 
authorities in support of my contention : 

"Operations for cancer, instead of stopping the 
disease, actually seemed to hasten it." Sir BENJAMIN 
BBODIE. 

" Operations for cancer never arrested, but uniformly 
accelerated the progress of the disease." Professor 

M'FABLANE. 

" The extirpation of cancerous growths with the 
knife can neither be regarded as a means of curing 
cancer nor of prolonging the existence of persons 
afflicted with the disease." Professor WALSH. 

" Operations as a cure for cancer are an illusion." 
Dr. WEEDEN COOKE, who for twenty years was surgeon 
to the Cancer Hospital, London. 

"It would be better for the interests of humanity, 
and the credit of surgery, if operations for the cure of 
cancer were altogether abandoned." Professor SYME. 

" Assuming that the patient survives the risks and 
effects of an operation, I venture to say that the 
number of cases in which the disease does not return 
is not more than one in five hundred." Sir JAMES 
PAGET. 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCEB 



CHAPTBE X 

THE DIETETICS OF CANCEB 

THAT cancer is Nature's protest against 
overindulgence of the appetite and the 
persistent neglect of, or disobedience to, 
those hygienic laws which she has enacted, 
becomes more evident the longer one pur- 
sues the study of this dreadful scourge. 
It is imperative, therefore, that dietetics, 
in relation both to the causation and 
treatment of this disease, also to its pro- 
phylaxis, receive the most unremitting 
attention. I have no hesitation whatever 
in asserting that cancer is a preventable 
disease, and I am sanguine enough to 
predict that before ten years are over our 
heads it will be as rare as it is prevalent 



254 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

to-day. My conviction is, there is enough 
common sense in the world which, when 
exercised, will so influence its fortunate 
possessors that they will no longer con- 
tinue to court disease by following the 
pernicious example of those who have 
preceded them, which they and their 
predecessors have unwittingly been doing, 
not only for generations, but for centuries 
past. What we are pleased to term civi- 
lisation has a good deal to answer for, and 
certainly cancer is an evil which is attri- 
butable to a very considerable extent to 
flagrant errors of diet for which civilisation 
is directly responsible. Moreover, what 
we complacently term the refinements of 
civilisation have had no little influence in 
the past I am glad to say not nearly so 
much so at the present time in inviting 
disease by affecting a modesty which is 
quite out of place, when so much depends 
upon plain speaking, and this applies 
specially to the education of the young. 
Why, I ask, should the young people not 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 255 

be taught to adopt measures to promote 
their health, and to obey those laws Nature 
has laid down for their guidance, when 
their whole future depends so much not 
only upon a healthy body, but what is 
dependent upon this, an active brain? 
Why should our youth not be informed of 
the evil consequences, which will inevit- 
ably supervene, if implicit obedience is not 
given to those fundamental principles upon 
which a healthy constitution depends for 
its existence ? 

We are possessed of appetites of various 
kinds, and if one or other of these are in- 
dulged in to excess, and more especially 
when they are satisfied by unwholesome 
material, not only will the organs directly 
involved, but the whole body, eventually 
suffer. Slavery is ignominious, but when 
it takes the form of gluttony it is con- 
temptible. To preserve health one must 
curb the palate and exercise an amount of 
restraint which presents itself to many as 
one of the great trials which man has to 



\\\ 



256 HEALTH AT ITS BEST 7. CANCER 

contend with. There is one thing certain, 
however, if he does not make up his mind 
to do this, he will most assuredly suffer 
for his temerity. The stupendous amount 
of disease and suffering, which are due 
solely to lack of discipline over the appe- 
tite, is apparent on every hand. It is not, 
however, my aim to moralise, but to 
endeavour_to point out the measures by 
which cancer may be prevented, arrested, 
and even eradicated when it has mani- 
fested its ^presence. 

I fear the value of_diettics, not only in 
the prophylaxis, but in the treatment of 
disease, have not^ received that amount of 
attention which they merit. No matter 
what may be the nature of the disease, 
dietetics must always^. prove a, ^valuable 
auxiliary in the treatment of it. If the 
diet be plain, simple, and wholesome, the 
tendency to overindulgence will be mini- 
mised. No one will dispute that a good 
appetite is a splendid criterion of health, 
so long as it is supplemented by an equally 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 257 

good digestion. It should require no 
secondary or additional stimulus conveyed 
through the olfactory nerves in the form 
of savoury odours emanating from the 
kitchen, which, being reflected upon the 
gustatory nerves, excite the palate, giving 
rise to that fictitious appetite so essential 
to the gourmand, and which he seems 
to live only to gratify otherwise his chief 
object in life would appear to be gone, for 
he is the creature who lives to eat, not the 
man who eats to live. His is a dietary 
which acts as a slow poison, as in its 
preparation it is rendered unsuitable to the 
requirements of the human frame. More- 
over, the digestive organs are incapable of 
dealing with the excessive amount of 
viands which the palate entices its owner 
to thrust into the stomach. Still the pro- 
cess is repeated day after day, and, as 
digestion of the material is impossible, it 
undergoes a process of fermentation, the 
products of which are acrid acids and 

noxious gases, the which irritate and dis- 

17 



258 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

tend this long-suffering organ. But the 
stomach is not the only organ that is 
directly affected injuriously. The move- 
ments of the heart are seriously impeded, 
and the due expansion of the lungs inter- 
fered with, by the pushing of the dia- 
phragm upwards and its mobility being 
restricted. In some instances the stomach 
may reject the whole of the noxious con- 
tents by the act of vomiting, when it will 
obtain relief for the time being. But if 
this happy relief is not forthcoming, the 
decomposing mass is shunted into the 
intestines, there to undergo a further pro- 
cess of decomposition, culminating in the 
development of myriads of enterotoxins. 
Now these, gaining entrance to the circu- 
lation, produce a form of toxaemia which 
renders the blood a fertile receptacle of 
disease, assuming various phases, which 
otherwise it would have had no difficulty 
in repelling. 

How totally different is the effect of a 
plain, rational, and nutritious diet upon 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 259 

the man who eats to live. His appetite 
requires no pampering and yet he enjoys 
his food, and at the same time, what the 
gourmand is deprived of, he is thoroughly 
alive to all the pleasures of life and able 
for its duties. His stomach is not over- 
taxed, and so long as he conforms to the 
demands which are formulated in the code 
of hygiene he will not only continue to be 
proof against the ravages of disease, but 
have confidence in looking forward to a 
healthy old age. He is not harassed by 
the penalties, which invariably are exacted, 
when the capabilities of the stomach are 
overstrained, and if he would conform 
rigidly to those laws which have been 
decreed to regulate the life of man "he 
would not defile himself with the portion 
of the king's meat" (Daniel i. 8). One 
thing is beyond all question, and that is, 
the more simply we live the longer we will 
live and the more pronounced will be our 
enjoyment of life. Who ever heard of a 
gourmand being happy at any other time 



260 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

than when he is gorging himself with 
savoury dishes, and who ever heard of him 
living to a ripe old age ? No, his fate will 
have been suicide by a slow but sure 
process, long before that period was at- 
tainable. 

The^Jhyrc-id^^gland is given to us to 
counteract the evil effects arising from 
accidental or occasional depa^tu^es^Jrom a 
normal jig t, or transgressions against hy- 
gienic laws ; but to expect it to set itself 
up as a fortress against persistent attacks 
of the enemy is demanding too much. 
The consequence is, when the evil course 
is pursued unremittingly, its kindly autho- 
rity is overthrown and cell metabolism, 
which had hitherto been through its in- 
fluence going on harmoniously, breaks out 
into open rebellion, culminating in disease, 
this being the most undesirable form it 
assumes. 

No doubt a savoury meal is very enjoy- 
able, but the enjoyment is very evanescent. 
I do not admit, however, that a man who 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 261 

continually indulges his palate by this 
kind of mess enjoys his lunch, for ex- 
ample, more than I do mine of bread and 
cheese, or my apples and cheese, or salad 
and cheese. 

Perhaps he is not aware that the very 
mode of cooking, nay, the very act of 
cooking his dainties, reduces their food 
value and renders them more useless as 
an article of diet, and, pro rata, a factor 
in the production of dyspepsia and other 
evils. 

The relation of diet to disease is one that 
unfortunately has not received the atten- 
tion it merits, seeing it exerts such an 
important influence not only in the treat- 
ment of disease and this applies specially 
to cancer but in the prevention of it on 
the one hand and superinducing it on the 
other. 

In the earlier pages of the history of the 
human race there is not much mention 
made of disease, nor does the evidence we 
possess tend to indicate that at this period 



262 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

man was subject to those ills which flesh 
is said to be heir to. No, the evidence 
goes to prove that they have all been 
acquired, and afterwards cultivated and 
harvested, until now they are sown broad- 
cast over the face of the earth. 

We have it on the highest authority 
that man in those primeval days attained 
a longevity which is quite incompatible 
with our degenerate frames, and this de- 
generation and incapacity for length of 
days seems to me to be entirely due to 
the natural tendency of man to disobey 
laws, the observance of which is essential 
to his well-being both bodily and spiri- 
tually. So long, therefore, as man obeyed 
those laws which were intended to guide 
him as to his conduct and mode of living, 
he was healthy and long life was ever his 
reward. On the other hand, the artificial 
life we live, and the amount and variety 
of material, quite foreign to the require- 
ments of our body, which is continuously 
being substituted for its normal suste- 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 263 

nance, have brought us to the conditions 
we are at present reduced to. 

Were I asked, What is the secret of long 
life as attained by the patriarchs of old? 
I should reply, living a natural life, and 
subsisting upon the food their Creator 
ordained they should rely upon (see 
Genesis i. 29). 

Now, while I hold that our actual 
necessities, both as regards the supply 
of physical and mental pabulum, are all 
obtainable from the vegetable kingdom ; 
yet were this supply solely relied upon, 
we would not only be happier, healthier 
and longer lived; still I do not go so far 
as to insist that a vegetarian dietary is 
essential to health, happiness, and long 
life. What I do maintain, however, is, 
that as our digestive organs were origin- 
ally constructed to deal with vegetable 
matter only, and our physiological needs 
must rely upon our food being composed, 
to a much larger extent than we are in- 
clined to admit, of uncooked vegetable 



264 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

products, it is incumbent upon us, if we 
aim at fortifying our bodies against the 
onslaught of disease, that we conform 
more rigidly to those laws which Nature 
has laid down for our guidance. It is 
unnecessary for me to recall the many 
palpable instances of disease due to the 
neglect of these laws and which disappear 
when the balance of Nature is restored 
by complying with her demands. Some 
of these have been and will be referred to 
again. 

It is not simply indispensable that the 
vegetable kingdom supplies our daily 
wants to a much greater extent than at 
present obtains, but that it does so in a 
much more wholesome manner than habit, 
more than common sense, has for centuries 
dictated. Hence our susceptibility to dis- 
ease in its varied disguises. Now it must 
be admitted that disease is in every in- 
stance the penalty imposed for infringing 
those laws which were instituted at the 
commencement of the human era. 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 265 

We will ascertain, if we consider the 
subject carefully, that the nutritive pro- 
perties of vegetables and fruits are 
materially modified in the process of 
cooking. Not only is their value as an 
article of diet reduced, but their digestibility 
also. Besides these, in no small degree, 
their nourishing constituents are removed, 
and what is of equal moment, their thera- 
peutic activity is thereby diminished. 

Let us consider what effect boiling 
produces upon vegetables or any other of 
the various articles included in our dietary. 

Does the albumen present remain in its 
natural condition with its latent vital 
energy still unimpaired ? Certainly not ; 
its essential characteristics are entirely 
destroyed, its composition altered and its 
nutritive value reduced pro rata. Then it 
must be conceded the therapeutic and also 
the sustaining value of the vegetable or 
fruit is seriously reduced by the removal 
of the soluble salts which are carried away 
in solution during the process of cooking. 



266 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

The following well-known experiment will 
demonstrate how important is the change 
in character which takes place in the 
component parts of vegetable substances 
during the operation of cooking. Take 
the kernels of a few peach, plum, or cherry, 
stones and crush them in a mortar, when 
we will find that the amygdaline has com- 
bined with the albumen of the seed, the 
result being the formation of cyanogen. 

We will also be able to detect the 
presence of cyanogen in the saliva of 
individuals after they have partaken of 
salads made up of a variety of uncooked 
vegetables. Now take a like number of 
kernels of any kind of stone fruit and 
boil them for an hour, by which time the 
albumen they contain will have become 
coagulated, and notwithstanding the fact 
that their composition has undergone no 
change, yet crush them as you will, this 
catalytic effect will not follow. The vital 
energy of the seed has been destroyed, and, 
pari passu, the chemical, which were the 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 267 

vital properties, it originally possessed. 
Does it not follow, then, that cooking not 
only diminishes the food value of vege- 
tables and fruit, but also destroys those 
qualities which are evidently essential as 
factors in the maintenance of healthy cell 
metabolism? I am certain it does, and I 
say so because I have had ample oppor- 
tunity^ of demonstrating the highly 
beneficial effects an uncooked vegetable 
diet produces upon cancerous growths. 
Indeed, so convinced am I of the value 
of a diet largely composed of uncooked 
vegetables and fruit nuts, of course, being 
included that I have no hesitation in 
proclaiming that if a liberal supply of 
uncooked vegetables and fruit were in- 
cluded in our dietary, cancer would soon 
become a matter of history only. More- 
over, I am convinced that a diet of this 
nature would, unaided, prove a sufficiently 
powerful therapeutic agent to rely upon 
in the Jbreatment of this disease. My 
reason for hazarding such a statement 



268 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

being that it would prove of immense 
assistance in re-establishing healthy cell 
metabolism, and it would accomplish this 
by providing in sufficient quantity that 
pabulum which the blood requires to enable 
it to supply an adequate amount of vital 
energy to the various organs which their 
physiological necessities demand, the supply 
of which had hitherto been deficient. I 
have, however, not deemed it prudent in 
the meantime to rely entirely upon this 
line of treatment, as I firmly believe I am 
quite entitled to do, seeing I have for 
years past obtained most encouraging jre- 
sults by jt in combination with thyjxad 
glandsubstance or its active principle . 
I therefore do not feel called upon to dis- 
continue the latter for the time being. 

I do not wish to dogmatise or insist upon 
one relying solely upon a dietary of fruit 
and vegetables, though I am convinced 
this is what was ordained to be our food 
supply ; but what I do insist upon is, that 
uncooked fruit and vegetables should con- 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 269 

stitute a considerable portion of our daily 
rations. Even if we consider the effect 
of a meat diet, experience teaches us that 
cooking, by coagulating the albumen (and 
a similar effect is produced by pickling), 
not only reduces its food value, but renders 
it more indigestible. Moreover, the albu- 
men of raw meat would appear to be 
capable of supplying the system with that 
special form of nourishment which assists 
cell metabolism even without the aid of 
much vegetable matter. We have only 
to refer to the dietary of the Esquimaux 
in proof of this, whereas we have had 
ample evidence on the other hand to show 
the evil effects produced upon the cell 
development of the epithelium and endo- 
thelium when our sailors were compelled 
to rely upon a pickled and cooked meat 
diet, scurvy being the result. It was then 
lime juice at the time quite an empirical 
remedy was found to be of immense value 
as a prophylactic, and proved unmistakably 
that normal cell metabolism could not 



270 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

proceed upon the meat, and such a meat 
diet as our poor sailors were condemned 
to subsist upon. Comparing, then, the 
different effects produced by a meat diet 
in the case of the Esquimaux, on the one 
hand, where the albumen was left in its 
natural condition, and in that of our sailors 
on the other hand, where the normal 
condition of the albumen was destroyed 
by pickling and cooking, we are bound to 
admit that it is the altered character of 
the albumen which adds to its unwhole- 
someness as an article of food. 

Over twenty years ago, when my health 
suffered at intervals from overwork, I, 
like many others from a similar cause, 
was subject to boils. Now we know that 
the epithelium, when in a healthy con- 
dition, is impervious to all microbic 
influence. On the other hand, if from 
any cause the epithelial cells do not come 
to maturity before being thrown off, the 
succeeding cells lose their horny character 
and permit the entrance of that microbe 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 271 

into the hair follicle, which gives rise to 
what are erroneously termed heat spots, 
and which frequently develop into boils. 
During one of these attacks a friend 
advised me to eat at least half a dozen 
orangesevery__day. I followed his advice 
and the effect was most gratifying, and I 
have acted upon it repeatedly, as well as 
recommended it to my patients, and 
always with satisfactory results. These I 
can only attribute to the beneficial effects 
produced upon cell metabolism by the 
extra quantity of fresh fruit supplied to 
the system. It would appear, therefore, 
that other affections of the skin are due 
essentially to the same cause as scurvy, 
though not perhaps to the like degree. 

There can be no doubt, I think, that 
vegetarians take a most rational view of 
dietetics, but they unfortunately miss a 
most important point when they cook their 
vegetables and fruit. If we look upon the 
subject from a common-sense point of 
view, there can be no reason why we 



272 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

should not eat all our vegetables and fruit 
in the condition it is presented to us by 
nature, when we make exceptions in the 
case of lettuce, endive, radishes, celery, 
young onions, mustard and cress, &c., 
and the various fruits in their ripe con- 
dition. On the other hand, vegetarians do 
not bar milk, cheese, and eggs from their 
regimen. Their principle is to abstain from 
every article of food where life has to be 
destroyed to procure it. But to return to 
the non-vegetable food which vegetarians 
admit into their dietary, as I have observed, 
we will find that cooking in every instance 
has the effect not only of reducing their 
value as nourishment, but also of rendering 
them more indigestible. 

The only^ articles of food which do not 
appear to be affected prejuxticially by cook- 
ing are those which contain a large amount 
of farinaceous material, such as the ^cereals 
and potatoes. In offering these remarks I 
do not for a moment wish it to be inferred 
that I object, from a dietetic point of 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 273 

view, to the cooking of such articles as 
eggs and milk, but my desire is simply to 
point out the effect cooking has upon their 
food value. So long as we adopt a dietary 
composed principally of vegetable and 
fruit, what might be considered^forbidden 
articles, if not too freely indulged in, ^may 
I think, be taken jjvith impunity. What 
I wish to accentuate is, that indulgence 
in these to the exclusion of a sufficiency 
of the former upon which the various 
organs are dependent for the continuance 
of their functional activity, should be/ 
condemned. 

I hope the arguments I have advanced 
in favour of uncooked vegetables will have 
proved fairly conclusive; but there is yet 
another which I hold is of paramount 
importance this is based upon the fact 
that all vegetables and fruit are possessed 
of a latent vitality even after they are 
separated from the parent stalk. This 
vital force we know exists in seeds and 

root vegetables also to a certain degree, 

18 



274 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

and may remain in abeyance for an in- 
definite period providing the circumstances 
are favourable. The essential constituents 
of the seed, however, must continue to 
exist as separate entities, consequently the 
vitality of the seed remains in a latent 
state. These important entities, as has 
been observed, will lose their vital principle 
if they are subjected to heat sufficient to 
coagulate albumen. Now this we know 
is an indispensable part of every seed 
and is essential in the process of germina- 
tion. So long as this remains intact and 
in its original condition it possesses the 
power of parting with its nitrogen and 
combining with the carbon of the amyg- 
daline, also present, to form cyanogen. 
This would appear to be the agent which 
endows the seed with vital energy and 
procreative power. The result is germina- 
tion and subsequently cell proliferation, 
which we term growth; so that cyanogen 
or cyanogen in combination with hydrogen 
forming hydrocyanic acid, though a deadly 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 275 

poison, would seem, when in minute 
quantity, to be essential to the develop- 
ment or at least the continuation of life 
in plants, and in my opinion the functional 
activity which controls the healthy 
metabolism of cells in animals is derived 
from this source. Now, as heat destroys 
the possibility of this catalytic action being 
produced, does it not stand to reason that 
if, by cooking vegetables and fruit we 
deprive these of their vital principles, that 
we, as well as seriously reducing their 
food value what is of equal importance 
destroy that which constitutes a 
physiological necessity. If the presence of 
this nascent vital principle is essential 
to cell life in plants, why should it not, 
if transferred in its active condition to 
animals, exert a like influence ? We have 
indisputable evidence that the thyroid 
gland, when administered in its natural 
condition, assists materially in restoring 
to healthy activity cell life, which 
previously had been prostrated by disease ; 



276 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

but this would prove inert as a thera- 
peutic agent if its albumen were coagu- 
lated by heat in the process of cooking. 
What reason, then, have we to suppose 
that the conditions should differ in the 
case of vegetables and fruit? 

I have no hesitation in stating that had 
we not gone astray in the matter of diet 
and used our teeth unduly upon food they 
were never intended to be employed in 
masticating, but conformed to the regimen 
originally laid down for our guidance, 
there would not exist the tendency to 
decay of these important aids to digestion, 
which is now characteristic of civilisation. 
We have only to look at the mouths of 
savage races to prove the correctness of 
this statement. Pro rat a, as luxurious 
living displaces a normal diet, so, not 
only the integrity of the teeth suffers, 
but the health of the individual deteriorates 
and life is curtailed. It would seem that 
the presence of nascent cyanogen within 
the seed of plants and vegetables which 



THE DIETETICS OF CANCER 277 

are adapted for human food, though in 
infinitesimal quantity, is essential to their 
existence and preservation. We will also 
find it present in the flower and the fruit, 
though not to the extent that it is found 
in the seed, which is the direct and most 
important offspring of the flower. To it we 
owe not only the sweet fragrance of many 
flowers, but also the flavour of a variety of 
fruit. In some it is modified by other 
agents, while in quite a variety it is ac- 
centuated, but in all I am inclined to 
believe it is the predominant influence. 

From the foregoing remarks it will not 
be inferred, I trust, that 1^ advocate a 
dietary entirely composed oj uncooked 
vegetablesand_Jruit, but what I recom- 
mend is that these articles should be 
partaken of in much larger quantities than 
usually is the case. In my opinion cell 
metabolism cannot proceed satisfactorily 
if this is not supplied in a liberal measure. 
Salads composed of vegetables, where a 
sound set of teeth is essential to their 



278 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

thorough mastication, can be passed 
through the mincing machine, which will, 
for the purpose, prove a good substitute. 
For nuts of all descriptions and almonds it 
answers admirably, and even for apples it 
can be usefully employed. 

When vegetables are cooked in the ordi- 
nary way, as I have stated on a previous 
page, a considerable amount of their 
valuable properties are lost by solution in 
the water they are boiled in. To avoid 
this waste of valuable material it is advis- 
able to have them cooked by steam heat, 
which not only provides against any loss, 
but also improves the flavour. There are 
several appliances which serve this purpose; 
but what I employ is called a boilerette. 
This is made either of tin, copper, or 
aluminium. In conclusion, permit me 
again to call attention to the necessity 
of a complete evacuation of the bowels 
every twenty-four hours. I need hardly 
add that the diet recommended will assist 
materially in this direction. 



THE APPEOACHING CONQUEST OF 
CANCEE 



CHAPTEE XI 

THE APPROACHING CONQUEST OF CANCER 

WHILE all who are interested in the treat- 
ment of cancer will hail with satisfaction 
and pleasure the record of those gratifying 
results said to have been obtained by the 
introduction of trypsin into the blood 
stream by certain enthusiasts, it would 
be foolish in the extreme to imagine for 
a moment that trvjpsin or any other 
isolated agent will ever per se, prove an 
antidote to cancer. 

It is not my intention at this time to 
extol any other method of treatment of 
this disease, .though 1^ am well . acptainted 
with such and have observed many 
instances where cancer has not only dis- 



282 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

appeared but did not recur for a period of 
ten year_s and has shown no^tendency to 
recurrence so far. My objective will 
rather be to discuss the rationale of this 
line of treatment in what I consider to 
be a fair and unbiassed manner. 

Dr. Beard, the author of the trypsin 
treatment of cancer, if I understand him 
aright, was led to infer, from experiments 
he made, that the disease had some con- 
nection with a deficient production of 
trypsin. I say production of trypsin, as I 
think it can hardly be termed a secretion 
of the pancreas, seeing it may not be 
present at all in the gland at the time 
of its removal from the body. Yet, when 
this is allowed to remain exposed to the 
air for some hours, trypsin makes its 
appearance in considerable quantity. In 
short, it is a conversion of zymogen into 
this ferment, and, as we know, this 
change takes place in circumstances 
where it is an impossibility for secretion to 
be coincident. We are bound to admit that 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 283 

it is a derivative of one of the most 
important constituents^ of_Jhe pancreatic 
juice. This fact does not, of course, detract 
in the least from its value as a digestive 
agent, but it points to the conclusion 
that if cancer is due to the absence or 
deficiency of trypsin, then we must look 
upon a disabled condition of the pancreas 
as the primary cause of cancer. To^ggk. 
at the root of the matter, however, we 
will be under the necessity of going 
further back jstill,. and ascertain the cause 
of this morbid condition of the pancreas. 
In this way we may possibly arrive at 
the source of the disease, and thus be 
enabled to deal with it satisfactorily as a 
whole, and not confine ourselves to the 
treatment of a symptom whicji the local 
manifestation of cancer undoubtedly is. 
It is this shortsightedness which has been 
the stumbling-block to previous methods 
of treatment, and will continue to prove 
fatal to all methods which do not aim at 
removal of those factors which have been 



284 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

insidiously sapping the integrity of those 
organs which exert such an important 
influence upon healthy cell life. It is to 
this oversight that thousands of painful 
deaths are annually due, and which will 
continue to be perpetuated, no matter 
what local treatment be devised, if this 
does not go hand-in-hajid with dietetic 
and general measures, which hold in view 
the relief of, and restoration to health 
of those organs whose functional activity 
has been prostrated by the persistent 
neglect of hygienic laws. 

It cannot fail to be obvious to every 
observer, how miserably surgery has failed 
to give relief in cancer, and the result 
has been very much the same whatever 
local measures have been adopted and 
sole reliance placed upon them. For 
example, I have known of cases when 
the subcutaneous injection of a 1 per 
cent, solution of caustic potash has had 
a temporary marked beneficial effect in 
epithelioma, and Dr. Webb has re- 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 285 

ported several cases of breast cancer 
which have been arrested by the injection 
of a solution of soap into the tissues, but 
I have not heard of any permanent relief 
being obtained by these measures. 

It is not my intention to mention at 
this time my own method of dealing with 
this disease. This has been freely dilated 
upon elsewhere. What I wish to avoid, if 
possible, is the booming of a treatment which 
has not been in existence for anything like 
a long enough period to place it beyond 
the experimental stage. The public have 
had so many disappointments that it 
would be a pity to add another to the 
number, and though treatment by trypsin 
may, and will, I trust, prove a valuable 
adjunct to dietetic and constitutional mea- 
sures, fail to apprehend how it can possibly, 
by its sole influence^jiave anyjgermanent 
effect. Cancer is not a disease, so far as 
I can judge, due to any one cause, but 
to a chain of causes and effects made up 
of many links, each of which requires 



286 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

special attention. Two circumstances have 
impelled me to communicate my views 
on this important subject. First the opti- 
mistic article, entitled " The Approaching 
Conquest of Cancer," which appeared in 
the Pall Mall Gazette of December 10th. 
Second, the fact of a lady coming to my 
consulting rooms two days afterwards, 
viz., on December 12, 1906, who was 
suffering from recurrence of cancer in the 
right side, upon 



operations bad been performed within one 
year, and when the condition of the parts 
were infinitely_^worse than they would 
have been had the breast been left alone. 
Well, this lady had just returned from 
Edinburgh, where she had been under 
the t^sin^__keatment for ten weeks, 
during which period the other breast had 
become involved, while the original site of 
the disease could hardly look worse than it 
did that day. This, however, being the 
only case I had up to that date seen 
after this treatment had been employed, 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 287 

I certainly would not condemn it on that 
account. Indeed I am convinced there 
may be some value in it, as I have stated 
in my last book on the subject, but only 
as an adjunct to other methods which 
are of proved value, and the manner in 
which I trust it will prove of immense 
service is that the ferment, by attacking 
the weaker cells of the morbid growth, 
may destroy them, and thus arrest the 
local increase of the disease. If this can 
be accomplished while the healthy condi- 
tion of the neighbouring tissue is improved 
by judicious measures, an important ad- 
vance will have been made, because the 
colony or colonies of malignant cells, being 
thus rendered innocuous, will disappear 
by absorption. The vitality of the tissues 
will not, therefore, be diminished as would 
be the case if the disease had been 
removed by the knife. 

It would be well, I think in this con- 
nection, to glance for a little at the 
functional utility of the pancreas, espe- 



288 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

cially in relation to the incidence of 
cancer. 

This gland, as we know, is possessed of 
certain important functions, these being 
supplementary to those of the salivary 
glands and the stomach, so that it, as it 
were, is placed as a sentinel to watch 
over the contents of the stomach as they 
escape into the duodenum and complete 
the process of digestion where it has been 
deficient. This it will succeed in accom- 
plishing, provided the food has not been 
in excess of the requirements of the body 
and of such a character as can be effici- 
ently dealt with by the digestive organs. 
On the other hand, it should be borne in 
mind that if the blood is in a vitiated 
state, the pancreas, as well as other im- 
portant organs, will, in consequence, have 
their functional activity seriously reduced, 
and, if this continues indefinitely, they 
may possibly be rendered incapable of 
fulfilling their duties, even to a limited 
extent. If the food is in excess in 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 289 

quantity or contains a superabundance of 
albumenous material in an indigestible 
form, such as butcher meat, then, as a 
matter of course, that portion which is 
not dealt with by the digestive fluids will 
pass into the intestines as effete matter in 
a highly decomposable form. There, we 
know, it will be liable to undergo fermenta- 
tion of a most noxious description. Now 
if this putrid mass is retained in the colon 
for an undue length of time and this is 
invariably the case in persons prone to 
cancer absorption of the fluid portion 
takes place and autotoxaemia is the result. 
The various organs of the body are, there- 
fore, deprived of their normal pabulum 
and instead are supplied by a vitiated 
blood stream. Is it to be wondered at, 
then, that they fail to fulfil their 
important duties ? And when it is remem- 
bered that the nervous system is neces- 
sarily handicapped from the same cause, we 
can easily conceive to what extent the 

resisting power to disease of any descrip- 

19 



290 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

tion is reduced. We are unable, therefore, 
to look upon trypsin as an antitoxin so 
far as cancer is concerned, though we are 
aware that the secretion of the pancreas, 
like that of the stomach and liver, is 
antiseptic to a certain extent. This anti- 
septic property, however, is quite incapable 
of preventing the formation of toxins in 
the intestine for the reason that, as a 
rule, the quantity of the food consumed 
is far in excess of the requirements of 
the body, and of a character which the 
various gastric secretions are quite unable 
to deal with in a satisfactory manner. 

It would therefore, I think, be inaccurate 
if trypsin were described as an antitoxin, 
which I am informed has been suggested. 
The thyroid gland, on the other hand, 
possesses decided antitoxic properties, 
which fact has been frequently demon- 
strated. It was only a short time ago I 
was told by a gentleman, a surgeon had 
said that a motion of the bowels was only 
necessary once in three days. One can 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 291 

hardly imagine it possible that any intelli- 
gent man would countenance so flagrant a 
contempt of such an important hygienic 
law as the daily evacuation of the 
intestinal canal most assuredly is. The 
very idea of carrying about in one's inside 
for three days a putrescent mass, which he 
would not tolerate for three minutes were 
it in sight, is beyond my comprehension. 
Depend upon it, it is ignorance regarding 
this maxim, and wanton disobedience to 
it, which constitute the primary factor to 
disease of all kinds and to cancer in 
particular. When, superadded to this, the 
most flagrant errors in diet are of daily 
occurrence, the danger is accentuated to 
a most serious degree. It is to these 
causes must be attributed to a great extent 
the failure of the organs of nutrition and 
the blood glands to perform in an efficient 
manner the important duties that have 
been allotted to them. The result is a 
departure from the healthy to a morbid 
condition of cell life in various parts of 



292 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

the body, and we know this morbid 
tendency appears to be increased at the 
seat of an injury or prolonged irritation, 
by which the cellular tissue has been still 
further weakened. It is in such circum- 
stances that cells which have departed 
from the normal standard are enabled to 
assert their depraved individuality and 
commence a new role of existence. 

Now the effect trypsin is said to exercise 
upon these morbidly affected areas goes 
to prove the correctness of the views 
advanced by those who, for a long period, 
have maintained that a malignant cell 
is intrinsically weaker than a normal cell. 
It goes without saying, therefore, that if we 
can by any means instil an increase of 
vigour into the latter, we will be enabled 
to subdue that of the former, and this is 
one of the chief objects we should aim at in 
our endeavour to subjugate cancer. But by 
far the most desirable object to attain is its 
prevention, and this I hold is within the 
grasp of any one who will obey implicitly 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 293 

those laws which nature has so explicitly 
formulated for our guidance. 

The question naturally arises, Does 
trypsin only act on the local manifesta- 
tion of the disease, and does it exert 
such a beneficial influence as to reduce 
the tendency to recurrence of the disease 
at a more or less remote period ? Does it 
favour cell metabolism to the extent of 
removing the tendency to revert again to 
any future manifestation of malignancy 
either in its previous seat or any other 
locality ? I fear not, as, so far as is known, 
trypsin or any other ferment is incapable 
of exercising this power. It is, then, to 
restoration of the functional activity of 
the thyroid gland, together with a 
judicious diet, abundance of fresh air, 
and careful attention to the hygienic con- 
dition of the lower bowel we must depend 
upon for recovery and maintenance of 
vigorous and healthy cell life. So far, we 
have no grounds for assuming that trypsin 
is capable of exerting any influence what- 



294 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

ever upon cell metabolism, whereas we 
have the most conclusive evidence to prove 
that the thyroid gland not only possesses 
the power of inhibiting the effect of auto- 
toxsemia, but also exercises a most potent 
influence upon healthy cell metabolism. 
It is, therefore, of the first importance 
in the treatment of cancer to aim at 
restoring the functional activity of this 
gland, and at the same time to adopt 
measures which will reduce the tendency 
to the introduction of toxic material 
from the intestines. Now the latter can 
only be accomplished by adapting the 
dietary to the requirements of the body, 
and the capability of the digestive organs 
to effect its complete digestion and 
assimilation, together with the thorough 
evacuation of the effete matter at least 
once in the twenty-four hours. By this 
means the blood will be relieved of an 
incubus which otherwise would exist, 
and the various organs be enabled to 
obtain an uncontaniinated blood supply, 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 295 

which would enable them to resume their 

functional activity, and possibly restore 

their wonted efficiency. That the thyroid 

has an important relationship to the 

incidence of cancer is borne out by the 

fact that in cancer subjects it is invariably 

1 1 found to be more or less atrophied, hence 

1 1 it is necessary to supplement the modified 

dietetic measures recommended by the 

administration of either thyroid gland 

\ substance or its active principle jjhvro- 

col. By these means, we have reason to 

\ tope, the gland may so far recover its 

lost power as to be enabled to resume its 

physiological activity ; and this is quite 

within the range of possibility. 

It must not be inferred, howeve^, ' that 
the thyroid is the only orppn whose utility 
is impaired in these circumstances. The 
salivary glands as a rule become more 
active, while hydrochloric acid is present 
in the stomach in very much diminished 
quantity, if it does not disappear entirely, 
and it is only reasonable to suppose that 



296 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

the pancreatic secretion is likewise to a 
certain extent in abeyance from the same 
cause. In this way we may account for 
the serious loss of weight which is so 
prominent a feature in cancer, seeing the 
digestion must obviously be seriously 
handicapped, and therefore the products 
available for assimilation reduced in 
quantity. And if the proteids have not 
been converted into peptones, but have 
passed into the intestines in a condition 
which favours decomposition, and therefore 
the development of enterotoxins, these, 
finding their way by absorption into the 
blood, will assist largely in giving rise to 
that condition which we term the cancerous 
cachexia, and as a matter of course will 
perpetuate the disease process by depriving 
the various organs 01 Dueli healthy blood 
supply by substituting a toxic fluid. It is 
not the first time that I have sought to 
draw attention to the importance of this 
factor as a most potent predisposing cause 
of cancer, though perhaps not exactly 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 297 

in connection with the treatment of this 
disease as suggested by Dr. Beard. And 
I am convinced that no treatment can ever 
prove successful without it is removed 
and not permitted to reassert itself. It 
matters not what treatment we adopt, even 
though it may appear to prove of service 
for a time, if we fail to restore the func- 
tional activity of those organs which have 
been permitted to lapse into an unhealthy 
condition. 

No machine can possibly act efficiently 
unless all its parts are in good going 
order. So it is with the human organism. 
Doubtless it is capable of submitting to 
considerable ill-usage with an elasticity 
which is marvellous, but the breaking 
strain will assuredly be reached sooner or 
later, and, coincident with it, those 
morbid changes which we term disease, 
be it malignant or otherwise. 

On December 12, 1906, Dr. Edmund 
Owen delivered a lecture at the Eoyal 
College of Surgeons on " Cancer : its Treat- 



298 HEALTH AT ITS BEST V. CANCER 

ment by Modern Means," in which he 
did not mention any of the " modern 
means " even by name. The_only method 
referred to was that of surgery which, 
every one knows, has never in one 
isolated case given permanent relief, but 
has only succeeded in aggravating the 
suffering and shortening the life of the 
patient. He also spoke in anything but 
a charitable manner of those who have 
studied not only the local symptom of the 
disease which is all the surgeon takes 
cognisance of but the conditions which 
have led up to this. He would appear to 
apply the term " quack" to those who are 
just as wellj^are as he is that surgery 
has proved quite incompetent to deal 
successfully with cancer, but who have 
relied upon dietetic and 



measures^ and who in consequence have 
received much more encouraging results 
thanjsurgery has ever been able t o_ achie ve . 
For my part, I would feel much more 
inclined to apply the term "quack" to a 



THE APPROACHING CONQUEST 299 

man who takes a fee for an operation 
which he knows for a certainty will only 
result in failure. The surgeon ought to 
be aware of the fact, if he is not, that 
long prior to the local tangible appear- 
ance of the disease the conditions 
which have permitted this to assert itself 
were latent in the system, and that, in 
the majority of instances, a direct injury 
or prolonged irritation, weakening the 
part, permitted the disease to proclaim its 
presence in the enfeebled tissue. How, 
then, may I ask, can it be reasonably 
expected if no measures are adopted to 
remove the casus morbi, that the greater 
injury, caused by the knife, will not have a 
much more disastrous effect upon the 
vitality and resisting power of the muti- 
lated tissues ? thus inviting recurrence 
which invariably is the sequelum. 

We have now learned that cancer, as 
we recognise it, is the culminating point 
of a series of changes which have taken 
place, seriatim, in certain important organs, 



300 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

consequent, in the first instance, upon 
their being compelled to rely upon a 
vitiated blood supply, this having been 
brought about to a great extent by gross 
negligence of hygienic laws and over- 
indulgence in articles of diet which are 
unsuitable to our digestive apparatus. 



A PEOBLEM 



CHAPTEE XII 

A PROBLEM 

IT has been assumed that trypsin must 
necessarily be of no avail in the treat- 
ment of cancer from the fact that the 
pancreas, from which it is derived, is 
frequently the seat of this disease. That, 
however, is no argument against the jjossi- 
bility of this ferment being of value in 
the treatment of the local outcrop of 
cancer, because, before the malignant 
tendency has developed, the secreting 
power of the gland will have practically 
ceased in consequence of the long-con- 
tinued toxic condition of its blood supply, 
which has for some time been gradually 
undermining its physiological integrity. 

303 



304 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

Now it is impossible for this to continue 
for any length of time without a serious 
falling away from the healthy standard 
being the result, and eventually a patho- 
logical condition being established. In 
such circumstances, then, the pancreas 
will be just as liable as any other gland, 
subject to similar conditions, to become 
the seat of malignant disease. 

Until we make up our minds to acknow- 
ledge the fact that cancer takes its origin 
in a faulty condition of the alimentary 
canal, induced, firstly, by burdening it 
with work which it is incapable of per- 
forming, and, secondly, by permitting the 
retention of a noxious, decomposing, and 
toxic mass to remain for an undue length 
of time within its walls, through which 
its toxins gain access to the blood, and 
there exert a most pernicious influence 
upon its essential constituents, we can 
never hope for physiological harmony to 
continue, and disease will be the inevit- 
able consequence. Will any one be so 



A PROBLEM 305 

bold as to deny this ? Why, then, do we 
persist in ignoring what, after all, is only 
common sense? 

Since writing the above a paper has 
been sent to me containing an article 
inspired by Dr. Senn, one of America's 
most famous surgeons. In lecturing on 
"Cancer and its Cure" to his students at 
the University of Chicago, he brands men 
who hold views on the treatment of cancer 
which differ from his own as " men with 
consciences irremediably blunted," and he 
dogmatises in a way which demonstrates 
most clearly that he has not given much 
attention to the natural history of the 
disease. At the same time he ignores the 
fact for fact it is that in no single 
instance has either he or any one else 
known the knife to succeed in removing 
cancer or preven/fcing__jt^^^currence. On 
the other hand, I can produce a number 
of instances where medicinal and dietetic 
measure^ have succeeded in accomplishing 

this happy result, aye, and in cases which 

20 



306 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

have been refused operation in consequence 
of the disease being too far advanced to 
warrant such a proceeding. During a 
period of fifteen years I had innumerable 
opportunities of operating upon cancer 
patients, and it was because I never had 
a case where recurrence did not take 
place nor could I hear of any other 
surgeon being more fortunate that I 
determined, in 1894, never to operate in 
malignant disease again. Since that 
period, notwithstanding what Dr. Senn 
has stated, I_have seen many cases re- 
cover from the disease, whilst, on the 
other hand, those who have been treated 
surgically have, without exception, had 
their sufferings aggravated and their lives 
shortened. 

Dr. Senn, for whom, as a surgeon, I 
have the greatest respect and admiration, 
has arrived at certain conclusions, which 
are as erroneous as they are contradictory, 
from his own showing. He, like other 
surgeons, confines his treatment to a 



A PROBLEM 307 

symptom, ignoring the disease, and only 
takes cognisance of the local manifestation 
of its presence in the system. Would he 
for a moment suggest that by the removal 
of a tubercular gland he would succeed in 
curing tuberculosis ? And this is a para- 
sitic disease, which he is bold enough to 
affirm cancer is also. This, however, is 
only an assertion on his part, as this 
source of cancer has never been proved, 
nor will this ever be found to be account- 
able for its existence. No parasite has, 
nor will be discovered in connection with 
this disease. Its natural history excludes 
the probability even of such a theory 
being verified. Besides, what benefit can 
possibly be conferred by operating for a 
parasitic disease ? Surely it does not 
require a surgeon to answer that question, 
and yet Dr. Senn proclaims it to be a 
parasitic disease, and declares at the same 
time that operation is the only remedy. 
Unfortunately Dr. Senn does not stand 
alone in thus dogmatising. So much the 



308 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

worse for the poor victims ! Then Dr. 
Senn makes a statement which is abso- 
lutely correct, viz., that " primitive races 
are exempt from cancer. " He does not 
explain, however, why this is the case, 
though he must know that the exemption 
is due to their diet and simple mode of 
life being more in conformity with those 
fundamental laws which, when observed, 
tend to promote healthy cell life. 

He next goes on to state that " civilisa- 
tion and luxurious living appear to have 
a decided influence in increasing the fre- 
quency of cancer." I would go further 
and say that " luxurious living," not 
civilisation per se, has not only " a decided 
influence in increasing the frequency of 
cancer/' but is in every instance, when 
combined with the neglect of hygienic 
laws, the direct cause of its incidence. 
This, and not a parasite, is the source of 
cancer, and it is because there is more 
indulgence of the appetite and more neglect 
of the sanitary condition of the intestinal 



A PROBLEM 309 

canal in America and Europe than else- 
where, that the disease is more prevalent, 
as Dr. Senn avers it is, in these regions. 

Furthermore, after having pronounced 
that cancer is a parasitic disease, Dr. Senn 
goes on to say, " the real cause and true 
nature of cancer are unknown, and will 
have to be ascertained by further obser- 
vation and research." How are we to 
reconcile such paradoxical statements as 
these? I must confess I am unable to 
do so. 

The only way to arrive at any correct 
scientific conclusion is to begin at the 
bottom and work upwards, not to com- 
mence at the top as has hitherto been 
the case in the study of cancer by sur- 
geons. To obtain a correct view of this 
or any other disease, we must of necessity 
master their natural history and not jump 
to conclusions prematurely, and found 
these conclusions upon a single symptom. 
What would one think of a physician 
who, if he, finding a patient suffering from 



310 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

a high temperature, treated the case in a 
routine way, and only gave heed to this 
universal symptom of fever, without for a 
moment going into the subject of its 
causation ? Yet this is exactly how sur- 
geons act in their treatment of cancer. 
They only treat a symptom, and, what is 
more, leave the patient in a worse position 
than he or she was in before. 

But to return to Dr. Senn, who goes on 
to make a statement, which every one is 
cognisant of, viz., that "cancer manifests 
a decided predilection for advanced life, 
the majority of patients afflicted with this 
disease being from forty to sixty years of 
age." With this bare statement he leaves 
the subject, and does not explain in any 
way whatever why such should be the 
case, as it undoubtedly is. It is this 
superficial and perfunctory method of view- 
ing a terrible disease, and yet one, I am 
convinced, which is not only curable, with- 
out^ the knife, but preventable also, that 
makes one so indignant. As a rule no 



A PKOBLEM 311 

measures are adopted or recommended 
whereby recurrence might be averted, and 
thus possibly a happy result be attained. 
On the contrary, the surgeon has jkme 
the operation, has pocketed his fee, com- 
placently mollifying his conscience by 
making himself believe that he has jlone 
all surgery can do in the circumstances, 
though he knows, all the time, that he 
has not succeeded in conferring one particle 
ofjbenefit on the patient, and that sooner 
or later but more cert ainly ^sooner than 
later, when surgery has had its innings 
the disease will reassert itself, and that in 
a more virulent form than would have 
been the case had the parts been left 
alone. Moreover, the sufferings of the 
patient will in consequence have been 
aggravated, and his or her life shortened 
in the majority of instances. Yet this 
blunting of the conscience goes on year 
after year, and if one lifts up his voice 
and proclaims there is a more rational, a 
more successful, a less painful and a less 



312 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

humiliating method of treating cancer, and 
that without mutilation, the man is set 
down either as a madman or a quack. 
All I can say is, I would, for the sake of 
all concerned, there were more such mad- 
men and quacks. Fortunately, however, 
they are neither the one nor the other, 
but men who not only know what they 
are talking about, but who are able to 
substantiate every statement they make. 

I know I am at present like one crying 
in the wilderness, but it is a wilderness 
of error, perversity, prejudice, and ignor- 
ance the only vegetation it can boast of. 
Be assured, however, that the good seed 
sown will ere long make that same wilder- 
ness, like the desert, blossom as the rose. 

But why has cancer a decided predilec- 
tion for advanced life ? Just because that, 
like everything else, there is not so much 
elasticity when maturity has been attained 
as there existed during the process of 
growth. Notwithstanding this, however, 
the mature plant, or tree, or animal can 



A PROBLEM 313 

be maintained in a healthy condition if it 
be subjected to fair play, and its physio- 
logical activity is encouraged by judicious 
measures; otherwise the tendency will be 
towards a departure from the healthy 
standard. And it is because the human 
body does not obtain fair play when this 
becomes more essential to its integrity, 
than was the case during its period of 
growth, that cancer tends to manifest its 
presence at a later period of life. It is 
when maturity is established, and cell life 
becomes more routine in its existence, and 
therefore more dependent upon the healthy 
and constant physiological activity of those 
organs which preside over normal cell 
metabolism. This duty, however, these 
organs are unable to fulfil in a satis- 
factory manner if they on their part are 
deprived of a healthy blood supply, and 
receive a toxic fluid in its place. Now it 
is entirely due to the persistent contra- 
vention of dietetic and hygienic laws that 
is accountable for this depraved condition 



314 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

of the blood stream, and the pernicious 
effects upon the functional activity of not 
only the blood glands, but also upon the 
organs of digestion and assimilation and 
the nervous system. How, then, is it 
possible in such circumstances to expect 
normal cell life to continue ? Then when 
we consider how seriously the blood itself 
is affected by the continuous absorption 
of enterotoxins, which are produced in 
such enormous numbers where an excess of 
highly decomposable substances have been 
thrust into the stomach, which it cannot 
possibly digest, therefore, for the most 
part, these must of necessity pass into 
the intestines, there to undergo putrefac- 
tive changes. Can we wonder, then, that 
disease is the result? Not only are the 
red corpuscles rendered incapable of per- 
forming their important duties in a satis- 
factory manner, but in many instances are 
destroyed in large numbers ; while those 
important organisms the leucocytes, are 
also seriously affected and handicapped, 



A PROBLEM 315 

and to such a degree that it is impossible 
for them to perform their scavenging duties 
to anything like an efficient extent. And 
so matters go on from bad to worse, till 
eventually pathological changes supplant 
those of a physiological and normal cha- 
racter. Cancer, then, is one of the inevit- 
able results, if a halt is not called before 
the mischief has proceeded too far. In 
other instances it may be rheumatism, 
gout, eczema, or dyspepsia, any of which 
may prove a blessing in disguise. 

Dr. Senn goes on to assert but it is 
only an assertion without the slightest 
foundation in truth that " cancer is a 
local disease in the beginning, becoming 
general by its extension through the lymph 
channels and the general circulation." It 
is hardly necessary for me to confute such 
a statement at this time of day, seeing I 
have dwelt so frequently upon its patho- 
genesis on many previous occasions. I 
must confess, it is far beyond my compre- 
hension to understand how a man can 



316 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

stand up and dogmatise in this manner, 
when it has been demonstrated over and 
over again, as Dr. Senn admits, that 
primitive races are exempt, and that 
luxurious living has a decided influence 
in increasing a tendency to cancer ; then, 
that it is a parasitic disease which, how- 
ever, is a mistake; then again, that its 
true nature and cause is unknown. What 
authority, I ask, has he for stating it is a 
local disease in the beginning ? I admit 
he is right so far, when he states that it 
may and does extend through the lymph 
channels and the circulation. This how- 
ever can be, and has frequently been, 
averted, even after its local manifestation 
has taken place, and not only that, but 
it can be, and frequently has been com- 
pletely eradicated by the very means Dr. 
Senn contemns, and this I assert without 
any fear of contradiction, and am willing 
to prove any day. 

Furthermore Dr. Senn makes the sweep- 
ing assertion that " internal medication" 



A PROBLEM 317 

by which I hope he includes dietetics 
and the strict observance of hygienic laws 
" is useless in inhibiting, arresting, or 
curing the disease." Now, how does he 
know this ? Is he aware that cancer Jaas 
frequently been known to disappear with- 
out any treatment^ jj^ all ? How, then, is 
it impossible, if we can ascertain what the 
favourable conditions were, which tended 
to promote this happy result, and en- 
deavour to produce these, that cancer can 
be not only arrested but cured ? We 
certainly are quite unable to force Nature 
in these circumstances, just as we might 
make a purgative act ; but we are not 
without the means of assisting her, and 
I am thankful to say we are in the posses- 
sion of such means, and that these means 
have proved successful not only in my 
experience, but in that of others also. 
Where would we be, I wonder, if every 
one were content to sit with their hands 
on their knees, looking before them into 
vacancy, and quietly give acquiescence to 



318 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

dogmas promulgated and insisted upon by 
men who have palpably given little or no 
attention to an analysis of the subject 
on which they express so emphatic an 
opinion ? Is it because they have not 
succeeded, or possibly never tried to 
succeed, that it is, in their opinion, impos- 
sible for any one else to be successful ? 
Dr. Senn replies to this question in a 
manner which, on the face of it, is contrary 
to common sense. Here is his reply : 
" The only rational and successful treat- 
ment of cancer during its early stages " 
the italics are mine " consists in the 
radical removing by excision every vestige 
of cancer tissue." Now, as Dr. Senn him- 
self states as his opinion and it is only 
an opinion that " the real cause and 
nature of cancer are unknown," how can 
he satisfy himself that the cause does not 
remain after the removal of the local 
mischief ? Indeed, we know it does 
remain, and I will challenge Dr. Senn 
or any other surgeon to point to a single 



A PROBLEM 319 

case of cancer which has been operated 
upon, in which recurrence has not taken 
place at the very seat of operation, and 
usually, in the first instance as I have 
stated, in a tissue which was non-existent 
prior to the operation, viz., the cicatrix. 
As I have affirmed on many occasions 
there is no one cause of cancer. It is 
due to a chain of circumstances, which 
have led up to a culminating point which 
is a departure from normal cell metabolism, 
for which there has been substituted 
cannibal proclivities and this has been 
brought about in the first instance by a 
vitiated condition of the blood, this 
having upset the physiological equilibrium 
of every organ of the body, but more 
especially that of the blood glands. There- 
fore the cause remains, even if one is 
successful in " removing every vestige of 
cancerous tissue," which is highly im- 
probable, though the incision be ever so 
wide. 

Dr. Senn proceeds to condemn the 



320 HEALTH AT ITS BEST F. CANCER 

various caustics, clover, violet leaves, &c., 
and with him there I cordially agree. 
But afterwards ; yes, immediately after- 
wards, he makes the statement which is 
extraordinary after having previously 
affirmed that cancer is a parasitic disease 
that " Cancer is not a microbic disease." 
Is a microbe not a parasite, then ? He 
then proceeds to condemn X-rays, but he 
does not refer to radium as being of 
assistance as a local measure which other 
observers have pronounced it to be. 
Lastly, he asserts that " trypsin was of 
no importance," though I learn from 
another American paper he has never tried 
it. Whence, then, has he his authority ? 



UNWIN BROTHERS, LIMITED, PRINTERS, WOKING AND LONDON. 



00 

to 

CO 

to 



-p 

CO 

Q) 



-P 

* 



PQ 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED 



