A SYSTEM 



IET AND DIETETICS 



EDITED BY 

G.A.SUTHERLAND 



OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 



A SYSTEM OF DIET 
AND DIETETICS 



V 

OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 

A SYSTEM 

OF 

DIET AND DIETETICS 



EDITED BY 

G. A. SUTHERLAND, M.D., F.R.C.P. 



LONDON 

HENRY FROWDE HODDER & STOUGHTON 

OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS WARWICK SQUARE, E.G. 

1908 





Editor's Preface 



THIS book is not a reflection of the fancies of the public on the 
subject of their food, or of the methods of the individual who 
believes in an infallible system for the dieting of his patients. 
Until our knowledge of physiology is more perfect than at present 
the scientific basis of dietetics must be an unstable one. Never- 
theless patients must be dieted, and the physician must be guided 
by the teaching of history, by experimental physiology, and 
by clinical experience in the proper regulation of their diet. 
All that has been attempted in this book is to set down the prin- 
ciples and practice of men who have had special experience of 
the subjects on which they write. 

Each contributor is responsible for the whole of his own 
section or sections. It may have followed that a certain clashing 
of views is to be found, but this may be taken as reflecting the 
divergence of opinion which exists in the profession on the sub- 
ject of diet. Contributors were asked to give their own views 
and experiences, rather than to make a collection of all the views 
of different authorities. Although the book is thereby rendered 
more dogmatic in tone, it may prove of more value to the prac- 
titioner, and serve as a guide in his work rather than be a mere 
cyclopaedia of facts and opinions. At the same time the views 
of the leading authorities have been included and critically con- 
sidered. My best thanks are due to all the contributors for 
the manner in which they have carried out the plan of the book, 
and for the time and labour they have so ungrudgingly given, 
often at great personal inconvenience. The readiness with 



vi PREFACE 

which they responded to my request for assistance has rendered 
my own task an easy and pleasant one. 

The publishers have aided me in every way and have pro- 
duced a book which is eminently readable. Not even the most 
ardent student of these pages will be likely to injure his eye- 
sight by their perusal. In the correction of the proofs I have 
received much assistance from my brother, Dr. C. D. Sutherland. 

29B, WIMPOLE STREET, 

CAVENDISH SQUARE. 



List of Authors 



NOEL DEAN BARDSWELL, M.D., M.R.C.P., F.R.S.Ed., Medical Superin- 
tendent of the King Edward VII Sanatorium. 

FRANCIS D. BOYD, C.M.G., M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Assistant Physician, Royal 
Infirmary, Edinburgh ; Physician to the Deaconess Hospital, Edin- 
burgh. 

J. ROSE BRADFORD, F.R.S., M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P., Professor of Medicine, 
University College Hospital Medical School ; Physician to University 
College Hospital. 

SIR LAUDER BRUNTON, Bt., LL.D., F.R.S., M.D., F.R.C.P., Consulting 
Physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. 

HARRY CAMPBELL, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the West End Hospital 
for Nervous Disease ; President of the Society for the Study of 
Inebriety. 

EDMUND CAUTLEY, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the Metropolitan Hos- 
pital, and the Belgrave Hospital for Children. 

JOHN ELLIS CHAPMAN, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Medical Superintendent, 
Coppins Green Sanatorium. 

JOHN M. COWAN, M.D., D.Sc., Professor of Medicine, Anderson's College 
Medical School ; Physician, Royal Infirmary, Glasgow. 

CHARLES WILBERFORCE DANIELS, M.B., M.R.C.S., Director of the London 
School of Tropical Medicine ; Lecturer on Tropical Diseases at the 
London Hospital. 

T. COLCOTT Fox, M.B., F.R.C.P., Physician for Diseases of the Skin, 
Westminster Hospital ; Dermatologist to the Metropolitan Asylums 
Board Schools. 

WILFRED J. HADLEY, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician and Lecturer on Medi- 
cine, the London Hospital ; Physician to the City of London Hos- 
pital for Diseases of the Chest. 

HERBERT P. HAWKINS, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician and Lecturer on Medi- 
cine, St. Thomas's Hospital. 

CLAUDE B. KER, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Medical Superintendent, City Hos- 
pital, Edinburgh ; Lecturer on Infectious Diseases in the University 
of Edinburgh. 

vii 



viii LIST OF AUTHORS 

ARTHUB P. LUFF, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to St. Mary's Hospital. 

SIB PATRICK MANSON, K.C.M.G., F.R.S., M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to 
the Seamen's Hospital Society ; Medical Adviser to the Colonial 
Office. 

EDMUND IVEN SPRIGGS, M.D., F.R.C.P., Senior Assistant Physician and 
Lecturer on Pharmacology, St. George's Hospital ; Physician to 
the Victoria Hospital for Children. 

G. A. SUTHERLAND, M.D., F.R.C.P., Senior Physician to the Hampstead 
and North- West London Hospital ; Physician to the Paddington 
Green Children's Hospital. 

JAMES TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the National Hospital for 
Paralysis and Epilepsy ; Physician to the Royal London Ophthalmic 
Hospital. 

W. HALE WHITE, M.D., F.R.C.P., Senior Physician and Lecturer on 
Medicine, Guy's Hospital. 



Contents 

CHAPTER I PAGE 

INTRODUCTION, GENERAL PRINCIPLES ...... 3 

(Sir Lauder Brunton, Bt.) 

Classification of Diets, p. 4 Cooking, p. 7 Condiments, p. 10 Con- 
stipation, p. 13 Assimilation, p. 14 Stimulants, p. 16 Metabol- 
ism, p. 18 Dyspepsia, p. 18. 

CHAPTER H 
THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET ...... 25 

(Dr. Harry Campbell) 

The Diet Epochs, p. 32 The Simian Period, p. 34 The Homo-simian 
Period, p. 35 The Early Hunting Period, p. 35 The Pre-cibicul- 
tural Cookery Period, p. 37 The Cibicultural Period, p. 50. 

CHAPTER HI 
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ABSORPTION, AND NUTRITION . 71 

(Dr. E. I. Spriggs) 
Digestion, p. 73 Absorption, p. 87 Nutrition, p. 96. 

CHAPTER IV 

THE RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET . . . 107 

(Dr. E. I. Spriggs) 

Composition of Food Materials, p. 115 Graphic Representation of 
Diets, p. 121 The Cost of Food, p. 127 The Effect of Cooking, 
p. 127 The Construction of Diets in Health, p. 129 Standard 
Diets, p. 151 Certain Conditions which influence the Diet, p. 154 
Water, p. 158 Mineral Substances, p. 165 Nutrition in Disease, 
p 169. 

CHAPTER V 
DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS ...... 175 

(Dr. Edmund Cautley) 

Milk Cure, p. 175 Whey Cure, p. 178 Koumiss and Kephir Cures, 
p. 179 Lactobacilline Treatment, p. 182 Purin-free Diet, p. 183 
Meat Diets, p. 188 The Salisbury Diet, p. 188 Zomotherapy, 
p. 189 Vegetarian, Fruitarian, and Nutarian Diets, p. 192 The 
Grape Cure, p. 202 Tufnell's Diet, p. ^203 Weir Mitchell Diet, 
p. 204 The Training Diet, p. 205. 

iz 



x CONTENTS 

CHAPTER VI PAGE 

PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS ... . 209 

(Dr. Edmund Cautley) 

Prepared from Cows' Milk, p. 218 Cows' Milk with Cereal Additions, 
p. 226 Carbo-hydrate Foods, p. 227 Nitrogenous Foods, p. 229 
Fatty Foods, p. 238 Combination Foods, p. 239. 

CHAPTER VII 
THE INVALID'S DIETARY ...... . 243 

(Dr. Edmund Cautley) 

CHAPTER VILE 
ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE . . . . . .251 

(Dr. Harry Campbell) 

Racial and Individual Effects of Alcohol, p. 253 Is Alcohol a Food T 
p. 258 Action on the Digestive System, p. 260 Degenerations 
from Chronic Alcoholism, p. 262 The Therapeutics of Alcohol, 
p. 278. 

CHAPTER IX 

ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION ..... 283 
(Dr. Francis D. Boyd) 

Rectal Alimentation, p. 283 Subcutaneous Feeding, p. 296 Feeding 
by the Stomach Tube, p. 300. 

CHAPTER X 

DIET IN FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIOUS DISEASES . . . 303 
(Dr. Claude B. Ker) 

Enteric Fever 308 

Diphtheria 337 

Scarlatina 342 

Measles 349 

Whooping Cough ......... 351 

Influenza .......... 354 

Other Infectious Diseases ....... 356 

CHAPTER XI 

DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS .....>.. 359 
(Drs. Noel D. Bardswell and J. E. Chapman) 

Diet in Tuberculosis Generally, p. 360 The Standard Diet, p. 367 
Forced Feeding, p. 369 The Construction of Diets, p. 370 Diets 
for the Leisured Classes, p. 373 Diets for the Working Classes, 
p. 379 Concentrated Diets, p. 391 Diet in Laryngeal Tubercu- 
losis, p. 398 Diet in Haemoptysis, p. 400 Diet in Intestinal 
Tuberculosis, p. 402 Special Food Preparations, p. 405. 

CHAPTER XII 

DIET IN GOUT, ACUTE RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM, AND 

RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS . . . . . . .411 

(Dr. A. P. Luff) 



CONTENTS xi 

CHAPTER Xm PAGE 

DIET IN DIABETES ......... 441 

(Dr. J. Rose Bradford) 

CHAPTER XIV 

DIET IN OBESITY ....... . 455 

(Dr. Edmund Cautley) 

CHAPTER XV 

DIET IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS ....... 479 

(Dr. Harry Campbell) 

CHAPTER XVI 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH ...... 489 

(Dr. Herbert P. Hawkins) 

Gastric Ulcer .......... 494 

Duodenal Ulcer ......... 505 

Hyperacidity . ......... 506 

Hypersecretion . . . . . . . . .515 

Motor Insufficiency and Dilatation . . . . . .518 

Gastroptosis .......... 524 

Gastritis 525 

Carcinoma .......... 532 

Flatulence .......... 534 

CHAPTER XVII 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES . . . . .541 
(Dr. Herbert P. Hawkins) 

Enteritis ........... 548 

Nervous Diarrhoea ......... 548 

Colitis 549 

Ulceration .......... 550 

Constipation . . . . . . . . . .551 

Enterospasm .......... 555 

Mucous colic .......... 556 

Appendicitis . . . . . . . . . .562 

Obstruction .......... 563 

Haemorrhoids .......... 564 

CHAPTER XVIII 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LIVER AND PANCREAS . . . 569 
(Dr. W. Hale White) 

Jaundice ........... 569 

Gall-stones . 572 

Congestion of the Liver ........ 574 

Tropical Liver . . . . . . . . . BM 

Cancer, Cirrhosis and Suppuration of the Liver . . . 575 

Diseases of the Pancreas . ...... 575 



Xll 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XIX 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 

(Dr. G. A. Sutherland) 

Asthma ....... 

Bronchitis ...... 

Lobar Pneumonia ..... 

Pleurisy ....... 



PAGE 
579 



580 
582 
588 
598 



CHAPTER XX 

DIET IN DISEASES AND DISORDERS or THE HEART 
(Dr. W. J. Hadley) 

Functional Disorders 
Organic Diseases 

Acute Heart Disease . 

Chronic Heart Disease 

Aneurism . 

Angina Pectoris. 



603 



603 
612 
612 
614 
619 
621 



CHAPTER XXI 
DIET IN DISEASES or THE BLOOD AND BLOOD-FORMING ORGANS 



(Dr. John M. Cowan) 



Chlorosis 

Pernicious Anaemia 

Splenic Anaemias 

Secondary Anaemias 

The Leukaemias 

Scurvy 

Purpura . 

The Thyroidal Diseases 



625 



625 
635 
639 
641 
642 
644 
647 
649 



CHAPTER XXH 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS . 

(Dr. J. Rose Bradford) 

Acute Nephritis 
Chronic Nephritis 
Granular Kidney 
Amyloid Kidney 
Functional Albuminuria 
Calculous Affections 



655 



666 
670 
678 
682 
683 
685 



CHAPTER XXIII 

DIET IN DISEASES or THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

(Dr. James Taylor) 

Hemiplegia 

Myelitis .... 

Alcoholic Peripheral Neuritis 

Chorea .... 

Epilepsy . 

Graves' Disease 

Neurasthenia . 



693 



696 
697 
698 
699 
701 
705 
706 



CONTENTS 



xiii 



CHAPTER XXIV 

DIET IN DISEASES OP THE SKIN 

(Dr. T. Colcott Fox) 



PAOE 

715 



DIET IN OLD AGE 



CHAPTER XXV 



(Dr. Harry Campbell) 



CHAPTER XXVE 

THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHELDBEN IN HEALTH 
(Dr. G. A. Sutherland) 



731 



. 743 



Breast-feeding, p. 744 Feeding with Cows' Milk, p. 749 Regulations 
as to Feeding, p. 758 Mixed Feeding, p. 764 Modifications of 
Cows' Milk and Special Foods, p. 767 Diet after Weaning, p. 784 
Diet during the Second Year, p. 787 Diet during School^Life, p. 794. 



CHAPTER XXVH 
DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN . 

(Dr. G. A. Sutherland) 

Disorders of the Stomach 
Chronic Intestinal Indigestion . 
Food Fever ..... 

Acid Intoxication .... 

Diarrhoea ..... 

Constipation ..... 

Abdominal Tuberculosis . 

Congenital Pyloric Stenosis 

Rickets ...... 

Scurvy ...... 



803 



805 
808 
816 
818 
822 
826 
828 
833 
838 
846 



CHAPTER XXVHI 
DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES . 

(Sir Patrick Manson and Dr. C. W. Daniels) 

Malaria .... 
Blackwater Fever 
Yellow Fever . 
Beri-beri .... 
Cholera .... 
Acute Dysentery 
Chronic Dysentery . 
Sprue .... 



853 



861 
862 
863 
865 
870 
872 
874 
878 



INTRODUCTION 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES 



CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION-GENERAL PRINCIPLES 
BY SIR LAUDER BRITNTON, BT., M.D., F.R.S. 

THE subject of food is one upon which countless experiments 
have been made by myriads of men during thousands and per- 
haps millions of years. In all parts of the world, from prehistoric 
times until now, men have been constantly engaged hi finding out 
what things were good for them to eat and what things they had 
better avoid. The tendency to make such experiments begins 
at a very early period in life, and the first thing that a baby does 
with anything new is to carry it to its mouth so as to find out 
whether it is eatable or not. Nor must we forget that man is 
the last link in a chain whose beginnings reach to the earliest 
geological epochs, and that previous to man's appearance on 
earth those lower animals, from which he is in all probability 
descended, were also making experiments upon the subject of 
food. 

Some animals developed completely into carnivora living 
upon flesh alone, like the lion ; while others, like the ox, became 
entirely herbivorous. Man, however, is not restricted in his 
diet to either flesh alone or vegetables alone, but can live, when 
compelled by circumstances, on either of these dietaries or on a 
mixture of both. 

The Indians of the Pampas, for example, are said to live for 
many months together entirely upon flesh, while many Hindoos 
are entirely vegetarians. The great majority of men, however, 
have a mixed diet, a large amount of it being of vegetable origin, 
but mixed, as circumstances allow, with the flesh of animals 
killed in the chase, or domestic animals, of birds, fishes, reptiles, 
insects and molluscs. 



4 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Classification of Diets. Although experiments on food have 
been going on for ages, it is only within a few decades that the 
results of these experiments have been classified scientifically. 
To exemplify such a classification we may take a meal such as is 
quite common in this country. A man sits down to a steak or 
chop, attached to which is probably a piece of fat ; he has along 
with it potatoes or bread, and if there is no fat upon the steak 
or chop he probably has a pat of butter extra. He seasons the 
meat with salt, and drinks a glass of water during or after the 
meal. On analysing such a meal we find it contains : 

1. Proteins, represented by the lean of the steak or chop. 

2. Fats, represented by the fat of the meat or butter. 

3. Carbo-hydrates, represented by the potatoes or bread. 

4. Mineral matters, like the salt, 
o. Water. 

Salt is not the only mineral matter which he takes at such a 
meal, for if the steak or chop were burned to ashes the residue 
would contain potassium salts, and rarely indeed is drinking 
water absolutely free from lime, so that in addition to the sodium 
contained in the salt, he obtains potassium along with small 
quantities of phosphorus, from the meat and potatoes, and lime 
from the water. 

In order to understand the uses of these different constitu- 
ents we may utilize the hackneyed comparison between a steam 
engine and a human bod}^. The motor parts of the steam engine 
consist of iron ; carbo-hydrates in the form of coal yield the motive 
force ; water in the boiler is absolutely necessary for the working 
of the engine, and its movements are facilitated by the applica- 
tion of oil or fat. If it were not for the question of expense, fat 
would be the best fuel wherewith to feed the engine, and it is 
said that in the old days when there was so much racing between 
the steamers on the Mississippi, the furnaces were sometimes 
fed with bacon hams, while the captain sat on the safety 
valve, a proceeding which frequently ended in a tremendous 
explosion ! 

In the human engine the bones, which may be likened to the 
cranks of the locomotive, are mainly composed of phosphate 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 5 

of lime and protein matter. The driving machinery consists of 
the muscles, which are chiefly composed of proteins, and the 
energy is supplied partly by carbo-hydrates, and partly by fat, 
which has also a lubricating function in the body as well as in the 
locomotive. 

Half a century ago it was thought that the energy exhibited 
by the muscles of the body was derived from combustion of the 
muscles themselves, and so a large amount of flesh was thought 
to be necessary, or at least advisable, in the dietary of those who 
had to undergo great muscular exertion. Men about to enter 
for athletic contests were then usually fed on beef steaks and 
beer. Fick and Wislicenus in their celebrated ascent of the Jaul- 
horn in 1865, made some observations which led to the over- 
throw of the old ideas. The amount of urea in their urine, which 
served as an index to the quantity of protein waste in their bodies, 
underwent such a slight increase even during their long continued 
and severe exertions as to show that the energy necessary for the 
work which they had done could not have been derived from the 
destruction of proteins, and that its source must be locked for 
elsewhere. 

Following on these experiments came many other scientific 
researches which have shown that the protein waste in the body 
may be likened to the wear and tear of the cranks and wheels of 
the engine, and that quite a small quantity of protein in the diet 
is sufficient to supply the waste. But there is a difference be- 
tween the engine and the body, for the cranks and wheels of a 
locomotive are quite incombustible under any circumstances, 
but the proteins of the body, whether they be in the muscles or 
elsewhere, are capable of combustion and undergo destruction 
to a great extent during exertion, especially if the supply of hydro- 
carbons and fats is insufficient for the energy necessary for the 
exertions. 

A careful consideration of the dietaries in use amongst various 
peoples, in various classes of society, and engaged in various 
occupations, has confirmed the results of scientific experiments, 
and it is now universally acknowledged that upon vegetable 
diet men are capable of very great and long continued muscular 
exertion. On the other hand the Indians and Guachos can live. 



6 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

as I have said, on an exclusively meat diet. But in both the 
vegetable and animal diets the five constituents of food which I 
have already mentioned (p. 4) must be present. 

The Hindoo, who obtains most of his energy from the carbo- 
hydrates of rice, must add a certain amount of fat in the form of 
melted butter, and protein in the form of millet, a seed which 
contains a large proportion of albuminoid matter. A certain 
proportion of salt is also indispensable, and water is so necessary 
that death from thirst is a great deal worse than death from 
hunger. Nor is this to be wondered at when we consider that 
three-quarters of the weight of the body consists of water, and 
that all our tissues, as Claude Bernard has well put it, live in a 
fluid medium, namely, the lymph in which they are bathed, 
from which each tissue draws its nutriment, and to which it 
returns the products of its waste. 

In the same way the Pampas Indians obtain from meat, and 
the fat which accompanies it, the carbo-hydrates which will 
yield the energy they need, although with this difference : that they 
have to consume a quantity of protein far above that which they 
actually need for the repair of albuminous waste. 

The typical dietary is that which will give a proper proportion 
of the different ingredients to supply the needs of the body with- 
out any one of them being in excess. Frequently the circum- 
stances under which men live render it impossible for them to 
obtain the typical dietary, and then they must make the best 
approach to it that is possible for them. The quantities in a 
typical dietary, such as the one I have already mentioned, would 
be: 

13 oz. Beef Steak. 
3 oz. Butter. 
6 oz. Potatoes. 
22 oz. Bread. 

This quantity is sufficient for twenty-four hours, and it is obvious 
that few men could eat it at one meal, but they can divide it into 
two, or perhaps still better, into three similar meals. But typical 
diet tables are made out on the assumption that the body is all 
to be worked equally in its different parts. There is, however, 
a very great difference between the work of the navvy and that 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 7 

of the railway director. The navvy works hard with his muscles, 
but very little with his brain, while the railway director has very 
little muscular work, but a great deal of thought and anxiety. 
The navvy's work consumes a great deal of energy, and his muscles 
produce much waste, while the brain, which is an incomparably 
finer instrument, requires much less energy to work it, and pro- 
duces far fewer waste products. The two may be likened to the 
steam engines and the chronometer on board a ship. Both are 
equally requisite for a safe voyage, but, while the engines con- 
sume thousands of tons of coal, all the energy needed for the 
chronometer is that supplied by a few turns of the key which winds 
it up. The food required to supply energy to the muscles of the 
navvy is not only much larger in quantity, but different in kind 
from that demanded by the brain of the director. Muscular 
work, as I have already said, can be done, to a great extent, on 
a diet consisting chiefly of carbo-hydrates, with only a very small 
proportion of nitrogenous matter, but it would appear that brain 
work requires food in a larger proportion of a nitrogenous nature, 
and if associated with muscular inaction a great quantity of 
carbo-hydrates is inadvisable. The comparative effect of a non- 
nitrogenous and a nitrogenous diet in nervous energy has been 
well expressed (I think by Butler) in the lines : 

, Was ever Tartar fierce or cruel, 
Upon the strength of water gruel ? 
But who withstands his rage and force, 
When first he kills, then eats his horse ? 

At the same time, it must be remembered that the amount of 
fuel required by the brain is very small, and that if much nitro- 
genous food be taken by a sedentary man, he is unable to utilize 
it properly and his brain becomes clogged by the products of 
waste, so that it may, on too rich a diet, be less active and 
vigorous than on one that is too meagre. 1 

Cooking. In considering the value of a dietary we must remem- 
ber that it is not the food which is actually eaten which nour- 
ishes the patient but only those portions of it which are digested 

1 A number of other typical dietaries are given by Dr. Hutchison in 
his excellent book on Food, in which he shows not only the equivalents 
of various kinds of food but their actual cost. 



8 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

and absorbed. By prolonged boiling with sulphuric acid and 
water sawdust may be converted into grape sugar, which is a 
most useful nutrient, but the digestive powers of a man are 
quite insufficient to convert the cellulose, of which sawdust con- 
sists, into soluble sugar which can be absorbed, and any one 
feeding upon sawdust alone would certainly die of starvation, 
although the quantity consumed might contain as much carbon, 
hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen as would supply a sufficient 
dietary provided only they could be utilized. 

Various definitions have been given to distinguish man from 
the lower animals. Plato's definition of " a biped without fea- 
thers " was turned into ridicule by Diogenes, who plucked a fowl 
and then let it loose to walk through the streets of Athens, and 
the definition of man as a speaking animal does not distinguish 
him from other animals, many of whom have a language of their 
own intelligible to each other, although we can understand it as 
little as we can the clucks of a Hottentot. The definition of man as 
" a cooking animal " is perhaps the best that has ever been given, 
for man is the only animal that uses fire. By the process of 
cooking a number of vegetable products that would be too hard 
to be readily digested in their native state are softened and made 
available for food. Protein foods are rendered more palatable 
and more digestible by cooking and noxious microbes with which 
the food may be infected are killed by the process so that they 
cannot set up an injurious kind of fermentation after they have 
entered the digestive canal. The alterations produced by the 
cooking of food are partly mechanical and partly chemical. The 
grains of the starch which is the most important constituent 
of carbo-hydrate food are broken up, so that they are more readily 
digested by the digestive juices, and they are also partly converted 
into soluble dextrine. The albuminous matters are coagulated, 
and this process not only renders them more easily disintegrated 
by the grinding action of the teeth but renders them more easily 
soluble in the juices of the stomach, so that the white of an egg 
is much more easily digested by the gastric juice when boiled 
than when raw. It must be remembered, however, in regard to 
this particular substance, that subdivision is of the utmost im- 
portance in digestion, and thus raw white of egg when beaten up 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 9 

may be mechanically so subdivided as to be more soluble than 
the same substance when hard boiled and swallowed in lumps. 
One peculiarity of starch is that when thrown into hot water it 
is apt to form lumps, in whose interior the starch is apt to remain 
unaltered, but if it be mixed into a thin paste with cold water 
which is afterwards stirred into boiling water an even mixture 
is produced. This rule not only holds good for the making of 
starch paste, but for the baking of bread and the boiling of pud- 
dings. In boiling meat the process varies according to the result 
which is desired. If the soup is the more important, then the 
meat must be put into cold water and gradually brought up to the 
boiling point. In this way time is afforded for all the flavouring 
ingredients of the meat to soak out before the outside layer 
becomes coagulated and therefore more or less impermeable. 
If, on the other hand, it is desirable to retain all the flavour in 
the boiled meat it must be put into boiling water so as to coagu- 
late the surface and retain the flavouring matters as much as 
possible in the interior. In some parts of the Continent oxen 
are much used for ploughing and are slaughtered for food only 
when they are too old to work. The meat is therefore tough and 
requires prolonged boiling, in which case the soup which is made 
from it is more important than the meat itself which is afterwards 
served up with some piquant sauce to render it less insipid and 
more palatable. On the other hand, when young mutton is boiled 
in this country for the sake of the meat rather than that of the 
soup it is put at once into boiling water and thus its flavour is 
retained. 

While cooking is, on the whole, an advantage and renders 
most foods more palatable and more digestible, there are in- 
stances in which the reverse occurs. For example, oysters con- 
tain a large quantity of a digestive ferment, enough to digest 
themselves when they are taken into the stomach, but when 
they are cooked, not only is this ferment destroyed, but the flesh 
of the oyster becomes considerably tougher, and so cooked 
oysters are, on the whole, less digestible than raw. Many plants 
also contain digestive ferments. This is notably in the case of 
the pineapple, which is now largely used for making pre-dige-ted 
foods, and fruits in the process of ripening also contain ferments. 



10 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Fresh milk is said to contain no less than seven ferments, some 
of which split up sugar, others digest proteins and others digest 
fat. When milk is boiled, the activity of these ferments is des- 
troyed, and some authors have considered that, in consequence 
of the change in the milk thus produced, boiled milk is apt to 
produce a form of scurvy. On the other hand, as I have already 
mentioned, thorough cooking destroys all the microbes that may 
be present in food and thus not only prevents danger from their 
causing putrefaction in the intestine, but also prevents the spread 
of disease by a specific virus such as that of enteric fever. 

Change of Diet. Pawlow showed that the pancreas pours out a 
secretion whose digestive properties vary with the food supplied. 
If the animal is fed on flesh the pancreatic juice becomes rich in 
trypsin ; if the diet be starchy the proportion of amylopsin in the 
juice becomes greater. Allan Macfadyen and I showed that 
bacteria have a similar power of adapting the ferment they ex- 
crete to the soil on which they grow. But the power of adapta- 
tion is more rapid in the animal body than in bacteria, so that it 
is possible by rapid changes in diet from a completely protein 
to a completely farinaceous diet, and vice versa, to starve out 
bacteria, and this is sometimes useful as in the diarrhoea of infants. 

Condiments. The experience of mankind has shown them 
that food unpleasing to the palate is apt to produce disgust or 
even vomiting, while palatable food is eaten with pleasure, retained 
with ease and digested with comfort. But it is only recently that 
the experiments of Pawlow have demonstrated scientifically that 
appetizing food, even when it simply passes through the oeso- 
phagus without entering the stomach, excites the secretion of 
gastric and pancreatic juices as well as that of saliva, so that a 
food which per se is less digestible than another may be more 
readily digested if it is more palatable. In accordance with 
their experience men have everywhere tried to render tasteless 
and unappetizing food more palatable by the addition of savoury 
substances. Thus the Hindoo eats curry along with his insipid 
rice and the Spaniard eats onions with his bread. 

Even when food is already palatable, its taste is heightened 
by the Englishman who takes mustard with his beef, red cur- 
rant jelly with his roast mutton or venison, caper sauce with 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 11 

boiled mutton, and apple sauce with roast pork, duck, or goose. 
It is curious to note that even in condiments there is a tendency 
to bring about the proper relation between the various kinds of 
nutriment. Thus onions and strong tasting cheese are not only 
powerful flavouring matters but they contain a large amount of 
nitrogen and are thus most useful adjuncts to a dietary of which 
bread forms a large portion. Fried bacon, herrings, sardines, etc., 
not only render potatoes or bread more palatable, and butter 
sauce gives a richer flavour to boiled fish, but they supply the 
fat which would be deficient in these articles of diet. Red currant 
jelly supplies the carbo-hydrate which is deficient in the mutton, 
and the apple sauce seems to counteract the excess of fat in pork, 
duck, or goose. It would almost seem, too, as if vegetable acids 
were useful in the digestion of fat because the Italian peasantry 
who live much upon bread and oil drink sour wine along with 
them. The palatability of food is not to be regarded as a mere 
question of gratifying the sense of taste and thus affording plea- 
sure, which some people are apt to look upon as being in its nature 
sensual and debased. It is a matter of every-day observation 
that appetizing food, or even the idea of it, is sufficient to make 
the mouth water, that is to increase the flow of saliva. Saliva 
is not only a powerful digestive of starchy matters but it tends to 
stimulate the secretion of gastric juice, and this acts in its turn as 
a stimulant to the intestine when the gastric juice enters the 
duodenum and a body is produced in its mucous membrane to 
which the name of secretin has been given by its discoverers, 
Bayliss and Starling. This is absorbed and carried by the blood 
to the pancreas, to which it acts as a stimulant and causes it to 
secrete an active digestive juice. The activity of the pancreas 
may, as will be mentioned hereafter, increase the metabolism 
in the muscles and thus food which from its composition ought 
to be readily digested, may, if unappetizing, be of very much less 
nutritive value than other food less easily digestible in itself 
but pleasing to the palate. 

It may be objected that hot buttered toast, which is very 
palatable, is often found to be indigestible while crisp toast on 
which butter is spread may be digested with ease. The probable 
reason of this is that the hot buttered toast is soft and is swallowed 



12 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

without much mastication, while the crisp toast must be well 
chewed before it can be swallowed. There may possibly be 
another reason also, viz. that the butter which is spread on the 
crisp toast becomes more completely subdivided into minute 
particles, and thus is more easily digested, while the melted butter 
of the buttered toast runs together more readily into oily masses 
in the stomach and thus becomes indigestible. When fat is 
overheated irritating products are apt to be formed from it such 
as acrolem, which causes the disagreeable smell from a badly 
extinguished candle. In cooking pastry some such decom- 
position occasionally occurs and symptoms of irritant poisoning 
may occur from eating it. Inferior qualities of butter which 
have such a strong and disagreeable flavour that they cannot be 
eaten in the usual way are sometimes used under the name of cook- 
ing butter to make pastry, and such butter, although not detected 
by the palate in pastry, may give rise to sickness and vomiting. On 
account of such liabilities to cause illness pastry has a bad name, 
but from my own experience I am inclined to think that pastry, 
if well made and from the best materials, is wholesome and 
digestible. 

Pawlow's demonstration that savoury food, in the mouth, or 
even when simply showed to an animal without being eaten at 
all, will excite the secretion of all the digestive juices explains 
why the Irish peasantry in time of famine when they were com- 
pelled to live on potatoes alone hung up a red herring and pointed 
their potato at it so as to obtain the suggestion of savoury food. 
This is probably also the reason why cheese savouries and fruit 
are eaten at the end of a large dinner which by its amount might 
overtax the digestive powers of the individual if the digestive 
secretions did not receive an additional stimulus. 

Another function of condiments is to relieve the flatulent 
distension which often occurs from fermentation in the intestine, 
especially when large quantities of hydro-carbons are consumed. 
The substances employed for this purpose are chiefly derived 
from the natural orders Labiatae and Umbelliferse, especially the 
latter. Thus we find that it is the custom to sprinkle caraway 
seeds upon cakes and to use fennel, dill and garlic both as a relish 
and to relieve distension. 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 13 

Constipation. Although one would say that the typical diet 
ought to be one which is entirely digested, is completely absorbed 
and simply suffices for the wants of the system, yet in practice 
this is not so. The intestinal canal of man, and of the precursors 
of man, has not been developed at all under theoretically perfect 
external circumstances, but has been so developed as to deal with 
the more or less imperfect foods which could be obtained. In the 
course of this development the appendix, which is in the horse 
a large and useful part of the gut, has in man become atrophied 
and now appears to be only a source of danger, although it is 
quite possible it may have some function of which we are at present 
ignorant. The fact that cooking is so common, and that the hard 
parts of the food which would stimulate the intestine mechanic- 
ally are softened and deprived of their irritating power, tends to 
render the movements of the bowel more sluggish, and civilized 
peoples are very apt to suffer from constipation. I think one 
may safely say that more than one half of the inhabitants of this 
country require a certain amount of aid to the action of the 
bowels. This may be afforded by taking more or less indigestible 
articles of food in the dietary, so that the whole cannot be ab- 
sorbed, but must pass through the intestine and be evacuated. 
In the long practice I had at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, I found 
that a fortnight was by no means an uncommon period for patients 
to go without evacuation of the bowels. Many of those lived 
upon a dietary consisting chiefly of fine white bread, butter and 
tea, which, of course, left very little residue. But the intestine 
is not merely an absorbing viscus, it also excretes, and some of the 
substances that ought to be eliminated by it are apt, in cases of 
constipation, to undergo absorption and to cause weakness, 
discomfort and ill-health. For this reason, therefore, it is neces- 
sary to have a dietary which is not typically perfect, but contains 
seeds, husks, or vegetable fibres, and if these do not keep up the 
peristaltic action sufficiently,, they need to be supplemented by ex- 
cess of sugar, by salts, especially sulphates, or by resins orglucosides 
having a purgative action. Many people object to the constant 
use of purgatives, and say that their employment is not natural, 
totally forgetting that the necessity for them arises from the un- 
natural mode of life which the patients lead, and the fact of their 



14 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

having well-cooked and soft food from which all the naturally 
irritating properties have been removed. If such patients were 
to go back to the habits of primitive man, and live in the woods 
upon such berries or other edible things as they could pick up, 
they would probably not want any aperient pills. 

Assimilation. In the intestines the insoluble starches and 
protein matters are converted into soluble dextrines, albumoses 
and peptones. These are absorbed and pass in the portal blood 
to the liver. Albumoses and peptones are deadly poisons if 
injected directly into the circulation, but they appear to undergo 
synthesis in the walls of the intestine and to be again built up 
into albumins, while a great part, at least, of the sugar undergoes 
synthesis into glycogen in the liver. From this organ the glycogen 
is gradually removed by conversion into sugar and passes into 
the blood, by which it is carried to every organ in the body. In 
1863, I pointed out that much of it was probably destroyed in the 
muscles by a glycolytic ferment, which I succeeded in separating, 
although only imperfectly in isolating. It has only recently been 
shown, however, that this ferment is probably rendered active by 
some substances secreted by the pancreas, just as the pancreas 
itself is rendered active by secretin formed by the duodenum. 
Thus destruction of the pancreas prevents the utilization of 
sugar by the muscles, and gives rise to muscular weakness and 
glycosuria. The albuminous substances formed by synthesis 
in the intestine are also carried by the circulation to all parts of the 
body and are utilized either to build up tissue or to furnish energy 
by being broken down. The products of their decomposition 
are known by the name of " purin bodies " from a hypothetical 
substance, " purin," which stands in the same relation to the 
products of muscular waste that the benzine nucleus does to the 
aromatic compounds. The final product of muscular waste is 
urea, and although the name of uraemia was given to a form of 
auto-intoxication characterized by coma and convulsions, yet 
urea is now looked upon as not only innocuous, but rather advan- 
tageous by enabling the patient to withstand the inroads of cer- 
tain pathogenic organisms, such as the tubercule bacillus. But 
very different are the views which are commonly held regarding 
uric acid. This is looked upon by many as the cause of the pains 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 15 

and swelling, and of the circulatory, nervous, digestive and cutane- 
ous disturbances which are known as gouty. Some writers look 
upon uric acid as a substance that is either formed in the tissues of 
the body, or absorbed from the intestine during the consumption of 
foods which yield it and after its absorption to be either deposited 
in the tissues or excreted unchanged. This view is incorrect, for 
uric acid, like other products of albuminous waste, can be des- 
troyed in the body, and the liver seems to be one of the chief 
places where such destruction takes place. It was pointed out 
many years ago by Stokvis that if urates be mixed with the 
pounded liver taken from an animal in full digestion, the urates 
disappear and are transformed into urea. These results have 
recently been confirmed by Bokenham and myself as well as by 
a number of other observers, so that the old view that gout is, 
to a great extent, due to disordered function of the liver has been 
rehabilitated. But the fasting liver either does not possess the 
power of destroying uric acid at all, or possesses it only to a very 
slight extent, and this power probably varies very much in amount 
in different species of animals, and in different individuals of the 
human race. In some persons, it is largely developed, and they 
have the power of eating great quantities of butcher's meat without 
any bad effects whatever. Others, again, possess the power to a 
very slight extent indeed, and a very little excess in albuminous 
food creates symptoms of discomfort. Although there are no 
direct experiments to show the effect of alcohol on the transforma- 
tion of uric acid in the liver, yet it is probable that alcohol lessens 
the power considerably. At any rate, gout is rare in Russia and 
in Sweden, where alcohol is consumed to a large extent, but 
where very little flesh is eaten. Swedes who have come to this 
country and have taken flesh in addition to alcohol have developed 
gout, although it was unknown in their family. Bor persons with 
inadequate livers, the best dietary is one which contains a mini- 
mum of purin bodies, and the use of butcher's meat by them 
should be to a great extent interdicted. Yet purin bodies 
are by no means altogether useless. The ashes in a fire are of 
little use and tend to choke the grate and prevent combustion, 
but cinders are capable of being utilized and may be very useful 
indeed. In the same way urea may have some use in the organ- 



16 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

ism though not very much, and may be likened to the ash of 
nitrogenous tissues. But other purin bodies, uric acid, creatin, 
creatinin, sarkosin, etc., may be regarded as cinders, and although 
they contain very little energy they are useful as stimulants. 
It is these substances which form meat extract and are present 
in beef tea and soups. They were shown by Pawlow to have a 
powerful stimulating action on the secretion of gastric juice by 
the stomach, and thus the practice of beginning a meal with soup 
is shown to have a good physiological reason. If the feelings of 
the person who takes beef-tea are to be trusted, it is a powerful 
stimulant to the nervous system, and frequently removes the 
depression, weakness and faintness which come on after long 
continued exertion or abstinence. But though a part of these 
substances may undergo utilization and destruction in the body, 
a considerable proportion is secreted unchanged and probably 
this is the reason why urine is employed in some parts of India, 
where the cow is a sacred animal and beef-tea impossible to 
obtain, in the same way that we use beef-tea. 

Stimulants. The experiments of Pawlow, Starling, and others 
show that when food is taken the stimulation of the salivary 
glands which it produces is passed on to the stomach, intestines 
and other organs, the action of each one serving to start the 
activity of the next. But mankind has everywhere felt the neces- 
sity for a stimulant to the central nervous system other than that of 
food, and in the most diverse countries and from the most diverse 
plants has obtained stimulants of some kind. These fall into two 
chief classes : (1) they either contain ethylic-alcohol or some 
alkaloid having an allied physiological action, or (2) they belong 
to the purin bodies like the constituents of beef-tea, already 
mentioned. The alcohol may be present in a more or less dilute 
form in fermented juices, or infusions, or may exist in a tolerably 
concentrated form in the distillate which these yield. The general 
action of alcohol is that of a local irritant, and after absorption 
it quickens the circulation and lessens the excitability of the 
nervous system. It thus acts as an anaesthetic both physical and 
mental, and renders the person who is under its influence less 
conscious of unpleasant conditions affecting either his body or 
mind. Painful stimuli such as blows, pricks, cuts or burns are 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 17 

felt less acutely ; sensibility to the sensation of fatigue is 
deadened and mental pain, whatever its origin, may for the time 
being be abolished. It is this property of temporarily rendering 
people unconscious of weariness, pain or depression, and of impart- 
ing to them a feeling of well-being, hilarity and comfort that has 
rendered the desire for alcohol so universal. It is evident that 
such a power may render it a very potent agent either for good or 
evil. When used in moderation, and on appropriate occasions, 
I think it is certainly useful, but the very pleasure it gives and the 
temporary unconsciousness of discomfort or misery which it 
induces are a temptation to take it again and again in larger quan- 
tities, to the destruction of the consumer. The anaesthetic action 
of alcohol on body and mind was first described by Solomon, 
who makes the drunkard say in relation to its anaesthetic action 
on the body : " They have beaten me and I felt it not ; I will 
seek it yet again." And for its effect on the mind he says : 
" Give wine to him that is of heavy heart, and strong drink to him 
that is ready to perish that he may drink and forget his misery." 
Healthy people, as a rule, do not need alcohol, and are better 
without it ; but in the press of circumstances or with advancing 
years, when the digestive functions become less active, some form 
of alcohol with a meal is in some persons, I think, though not in 
all, advantageous. Morphine and cocaine have a similar anaes- 
thetic action to alcohol, but they are more powerful and more 
liable even than it to abuse and to an even greater extent. The 
other class of stimulants, viz. those belonging to the purin bodies, 
are tea, coffee, cocoa, guarana and mate. These do not have 
the same anaesthetic action as alcohol, morphine or coca, but 
they stimulate the central nervous system, increase energy and 
quicken the mental processes. 

Excretion. Some of the purin bodies act as powerful diuretics. 
Urea has a distinctly diuretic action, but this power is much more 
marked in caffein, and its allies, theobromin, theocin, which 
stimulate the excreting powers of the renal tubules. They not 
only increase the amount of urine, but also of the products of 
tissue waste it contains, and thus tend to quicken the metabolic 
processes and stimulate the functions of all the organs of the 
body. 

2 



18 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Metabolism. We have thus far followed the food through 
the intestine, the circulation and the excreting organs, but, as I 
mentioned before, all our tissues live in a fluid medium, namely, 
the lymph in which they are bathed and not in the blood which 
circulates through them. The lymph passes through the capil- 
laries from the blood into the lymph spaces. Here it nourishes 
the tissues, and after it has f ulfilled its office it is either re-absorbed 
into the venous radicals or conveyed by the lymphatics directly 
into the larger veins. Various substances have the effect of quick- 
ening the flow of lymph from the blood into the lymphatic spaces. 
Amongst these are : egg-albumin, Witte's peptone, extract 
crayfish, mussels and leeches, nuclein, urea, sugar and salts. 

It is probable that a number of others have also this action, 
and it has lately been found that it is possessed to a large extent 
by strawberries. The effect of such substances on tissue-meta- 
bolism in health and disease is at present unknown, sometimes 
it may be for good, at other times for harm. I once saw a patient 
who had some obscure disease which resembled pernicious anaemia 
more than anything else. Drugs seemed to do little good, but 
many strawberries eaten all through the day produced very 
marked benefit. On the other hand I knew a lady in whom the 
power of strawberries to quicken the effusion of lymph was so 
great that a single strawberry produced such swelling of the 
eyelids as almost to blind her. 

Salts of potash and soda have a lymphagogic action, and 
when it is desirable to lessen the exit of lymph from the blood 
vessels, as in the dropsy of cardiac disease, a diet free from sodium 
chloride is frequently useful. Calcium salts have an opposite 
action and lessen the flow of lymph into the lymph spaces. 
Magnesium appears to have a similar effect, and thus salts of these 
metals are useful in oedema and localized lymphatic swelling 
such as urticaria. 

Dyspepsia. The functions of digestion ought normally to be 
carried on without any pain or inconvenience. On the contrary, 
satisfaction of the appetite should be a source of pleasure, and 
digestion should be productive of comfort, but in many instances 
this is not the case. Weight, distension, pain, flatulence, oppres- 
sion, palpitation and other discomforts frequently follow the 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 19 

ingestion of food, and these discomforts are generally included 
under the name of dyspepsia. A great deal of dyspepsia is due 
to want of proper mastication. Either the teeth are bad 
and proper mastication is impossible, or the food is hurriedly 
swallowed without the person taking either the time or the 
trouble to chew it. The consequence is that little saliva is 
secreted, starchy foods go into the stomach unchanged, protein 
foods are imperfectly broken up and are thus more slowly acted 
upon by the gastric juice. The gastric juice itself is more spar- 
ingly secreted from want of the stimulus afforded by the saliva 
and of the nervous stimulus given by the sapid taste in the mouth. 
The first link in the process of mastication is thus imperfect and 
the others follow suit. Here it may be worth while to give a 
hint about the preservation of the teeth, because many people 
are under the impression that if they brush their teeth thoroughly 
they will save them from decay, but this is not the case, because 
a tooth-brush does not penetrate between the teeth, and it is 
between the teeth that particles of food stick, especially particles 
of meat. There they afford a lodgment to microbes and generate 
acid, and it is between the teeth that caries usually begins. 
This lodgment can only be removed by the use of a tooth-pick. 
The movements of the lips act as a brush to the external surface of 
the teeth, and the tongue does the same for the internal during the 
day, but during sleep their movements cease and time is afforded 
for the decomposition of food. A tooth-brush should therefore 
be used before going to bed, and if milk be drunk either by adults 
or children at bedtime the mouth should be well rinsed after- 
wards. But in many cases neither the lips, tongue nor a tooth- 
brush can thoroughly remove the food from between the teeth, 
and a tooth-pick should be used. It may be quill or wood, and 
a very useful and cheap one can be made by simply cutting the 
end of a lucifer match into a wedge shape. Gobbling the food 
is very frequent amongst busy people or those who are of active 
habits, and whenever they think of something to be done, they 
are apt to eat more quickly than ever, and it is difficult for them 
to remember that they ought to eat slowly. Sometimes the 
only way to break them of the habit is to make them count the 
bites. The advice given by the late Sir Andrew Clark in this 



20 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

respect was very good : " Thirty -two teeth in one mouth, thirty- 
two bites to every mouthful, and for any tooth that is gone the 
number of bites must be proportionately increased." The con- 
ditions under which a meal is taken greatly affect its digestion. 
I have frequently had patients say to me : " It is very odd that 
if I eat a bit of plain mutton and stale bread at home I suffer 
dreadfully from dyspepsia, whereas if I go out to dinner and eat 
and drink everything that is put before me I have no trouble 
at all." The reason of this is evident in the light of the experi- 
ments of Pawlow, for when at home the nervous stimulus to the 
secretion of the digestive juices was absent, while it was present 
in the case of the dinner outside, and, consequently, in the first 
case dyspepsia occurred and not in the second. 

Depressing emotions and fatigue also interfere with digestion. 
We have no experiments to show their effect upon the secretion 
by the stomach or intestine, but their effect upon the secretion of 
saliva is very marked. Thus, one plan of detecting a thief in 
India is to make all the suspected people sit round hi a circle. 
Each one is then made to chew a little "rice and again spit it out. 
This process is accompanied by some oaths, incantations or invo- 
cations, and the effect is that the fear of detection dries up the 
secretion of saliva, and the guilty person spits his rice out dry, 
while the others all put it out moist. Worry has a somewhat 
similar, though less marked, effect. It was pointed out to me by 
my friend, Dr. Rayner Batten, that a line of froth along each 
side of the tongue when it is first put out is an almost infallible 
sign of worry, and I have proved the truth of this upon many 
occasions. By attention to chewing and by resting a little while 
before and after a meal, and by refusing to think at meal times of 
worrying subjects, nervous dyspepsia may frequently be greatly 
lessened. 

Many cases of dyspepsia depend on the presence of micro- 
organisms in the alimentary canal which give rise to abnormal 
processes of decomposition in the food with the production of toxins 
and gases. Metschnikoff has proposed to cure those cases on the 
old principle of " setting a thief to catch a thief " and destroying 
these " wild " and harmful bacteria by the introduction of a 
large number of " tame " and harmless bacteria. To this latter 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES 21 

class belongs the bacillus acidi lactici and Metchnikoff's plan is to 
give a pure cultivation of this bacillus either in the form of tablets 
or of milk already soured by its presence. 

The dietaries appropriate either for general diseases or for 
diseases of special organs will be considered under the appro- 
priate headings, but the dietary for a healthy man may be summed 
up very shortly in the words of Professor Chittenden : " The best 
dietary for a healthy man is a mixed diet, and not too much of it." 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 



CHAPTER II 

THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 
BY HARRY CAMPBELL, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

A KNOWLEDGE of the changes which man's diet has undergone 
from early times cannot but be of great value to the physician ) 
whether in enabling him to construct a rational dietary in 
health and disease or in helping him to interpret the many 
disorders which result from unsuitable food. 

In respect of diet the mammalia fall into three classes the 
carnivora, the herbivora, and the frugivora. 

The carnivora subsist on an animal diet pure and simple, 
and this being highly concentrated, their digestive system is 
correspondingly small in relation to body weight. 

The herbivora, of which the horse, the ox, and the rabbit may 
be cited as examples, subsist for the most part on bulky, uncon- 
centrated vegetable food, such as grasses, leaves, and the like, 
and have a correspondingly bulky digestive system. Animal 
food they avoid. 

The frugivora, which include animals like the squirrel, the 
rat, and the monkey, consume vegetable food in its more con- 
centrated forms, such as seeds and nuts. Being generally more 
intelligent than the herbivora, and gifted also with no incon- 
siderable prehensile powers, they are able to pick and choose 
their food more cleverly ; and hence securing it in much more 
concentrated forms, they are provided with a much less bulky 
digestive system than the herbivora. Their intelligence and 
nimbleness moreover, often enable them to procure a certain 
amount of animal food of all foods the most nutritious. Thus 
we find squirrels consuming eggs as well as nuts, and many 
of the monkeys, as also the great apes, supplementing their 
vegetable food by small birds, eggs, lizards, grubs, and the like. 



26 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Man, now essentially a mixed feeder, belongs by virtue of 
his descent, and as might be expected from his high mental and 
bodily development, to the frugivora. 



FOOD OF THE EVOLVING MAN 

Vegetable Food. The vegetable food of the evolving man 
was drawn from the following sources : 

Seeds. Seeds constituted his most important vegetable food, 
on account of the large amount of protein they contain. 

Fruits. When seeds are contained in an exposed brightly 
coloured, fleshy envelope, they constitute fruits. In the case 
of most fruits these envelopes, consisting in the ripe state of 
little more than dilute solutions of sugar and salts, furnish a 
comparatively small amount of energy, while the contained seeds 
do not, for the most part, admit of being digested by the mam- 
malia, unless laboriously masticated. 

Fleshy roots. The term "fleshy root " may conveniently be 
made to include any underground part of a plant (e.g. tuber, 
rhizome, tap-root) serving as a storehouse of nutriment. The 
nutrient value of such " roots " depends chiefly upon their richness 
in starch. 

Green vegetables. Under this head are included leaves and 
the young shoots of plants. They afford little energy-yielding 
nutriment, and their chief food value lies in then* watery and 
saline constituents. 

Mushrooms, seaweed, the bark of certain trees, gum. These, 
though of little nutrient value, must also be included among the 
foods of the evolving man. 

It is important to bear in mind that the products of the 
uncultivated vegetable kingdom are by themselves totally in- 
adequate to man's nutritive needs. The popular belief to the 
contrary is perhaps in some measure due to the mistaken notion 
that fruits like the fig, the date, and the banana grow wild in 
abundance, and constitute even in their natural state highly 
nutritious foods ; whereas, as a matter of fact, they are. as 
supplied to our markets, the finished products of a cultivation 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 27 

dating back into an impenetrable past and scarcely to be 
identified with their wild and barely edible congeners. The 
sugar-cane and the cocoa-nut are other instances of fruits brought 
to their present perfection by centuries of careful cultivation : 
wild, they furnish but a meagre supply of nutriment suitable 
to man. Even our simian and post-simian ancestors were not 
able to subsist entirely on the vegetable food with which nature 
provided them. 

One's mind, influenced no doubt by the poets, is too apt to 
picture early man as surrounded by a profusion of luscious fruits 
and sweet-tasting seeds, as living in a veritable lotus-land of 
plenty, where an abundance of delicious food was to be had 
for the mere trouble of gathering it. But the reality was far 
otherwise, as is proved by the fact that even now no existing 
race of man, hi spite of most elaborate methods of preparing 
and thus increasing the nutritive value of its vegetable food, 
is capable of subsisting on it alone. 

Animal Food. As regards the animal food of the evolving 
man, it may safely be said that prior to the period of food culture 
it was acceptable to him in practically any form in which it 
could be procured. Some kinds would naturally be preferred 
before others, but there can be no doubt that, at any rate in 
times of dearth, all kinds weregreedily devoured, from mammals, 
fish, birds, and birds' eggs of every description, to shell-fish, 
lizards, snakes, frogs, grubs, worms, snails, insects, and cater- 
pillars. 

Honey. This seems the proper place in which to mention 
honey, inasmuch as it is an animal product ; from simian times 
onwards wild honey undoubtedly afforded a valuable source 
of nutriment to our progenitors. 

FACTORS DETERMINING THE FOOD OF EVOLVING SPECIES 

The factors which determine the food of a species are three 
in number : 

1. The kind of food available, i.e. the character of the local 
flora and fauna. 



28 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

2. The specific attractiveness of certain kinds of food, as 
determined by instinctive prompting for them and by their 
digestibility. 

3. The ability to secure the desired food. 

1. The kind of food available. As to this factor nothing 
need be said here, except perhaps to remark that it is a matter 
chiefly determined by latitude. 

2. The instinctive liking for certain kinds of food. While 
an instinctive desire for certain foods is peculiar to each species, 
it will be found that all animals in their choice of food are 
influenced, consciously or unconsciously, by three main con- 
siderations : the richness of the food in nutrient material, its 
digestibility, and its taste. In other words, the tendency of every 
animal is to seek out food of the most concentrated, and, to 
it, the most digestible and palatable kind. 

The advantages of a concentrated and easily digestible 
food he in the fact that the needful amount can be procured 
and assimilated with the minimum expenditure of energy. 
Of vegetable foods, seeds and roots are the most concentrated, 
but of all natural food animal tissue is at once the most con- 
centrated and, by those possessed of the proper digestive organs, 
the most easily digested, so much so that, given the necessary 
facilities, even herbivorous species tend to become carnivorous, 
while the reverse seldom, if ever, occurs : thus in winter the rein- 
deer eats flesh and in seasons of dearth farmers have been known 
to feed their cattle and even their horses on fish, but the carni- 
vora cannot digest vegetable food unless it has been artificially 
prepared. 

It need scarcely be said that the palatableness of any given 
food varies for different species : what may be highly palatable 
to one species may excite disgust in another. Thus there may 
be species which revel in bitter and sour foods, such as aloes and 
sloes, but probably the tendency of all mammals, and certainly 
the tendency of the higher ones, is to avoid what is bitter and acrid 
hi favour of what is sweet and possessed of delicate flavour. Within 
limits, sourness is tolerated by man, who sometimes manifests 
an actual craving for sour and even bitter things, such as lemons 
and various bitter herbs. No doubt the apes in their natural 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 29 

state subsist largely on bitter and acrid substances from which 
the human palate would recoil in disgust, but we may be 
sure that even with them the tendency is in the direction 
indicated. 

That man tends to seek out concentrated, digestible, and 
delicately flavoured food in preference to food that is bulky, 
indigestible, and acrid, is shown by the directions in which he 
has modified his food-stuffs by cultivation. If we contrast wild, 
uncultivated vegetable foods with the corresponding cultivated 
varieties, we find the former differing from the latter chiefly 
in containing a smaller proportion of nutrient material and a 
larger proportion of cellulose, and in being less palatable owing 
to the presence hi them of bitter and acrid substances ; whence 
it is clear that the chief objects aimed at in cultivation have 
been, on the one hand, to diminish the proportions of the indi- 
gestible cellulose and of the disagreeable ingredients, and on 
the other, to increase the proportion of nutrients starch, sugar, 
proteins, and fats. Other things being equal, those vegetable 
foods which contain the smallest proportions of cellulose (especi- 
ally of the denser kind) and of bitter and acrid constituents, are 
the most nutritive and palatable, and therefore the most 
eagerly sought after. This is an important principle, explaining 
as it does how the evolving man gradually came to leave certain 
vegetable foods out of his dietary. 

3. The ability to secure the desired food. Obviously the 
higher the intelligence and the more efficient the bodily equip- 
ment for securing food (e.g. that making possible the climbing 
a tree or the grasping an object), the more successful is the 
animal likely to be in obtaining its food supply. Thus among 
the rodents, the stupid rabbit, unable to climb and with little 
prehensile power, has to be content with a bulky diet of com- 
paratively innutritions herbs, while the more intelligent squirrel, 
a nimble climber and possessed of considerable prehensile power, 
is able to procure highly nutritious seeds and a considerable 
amount of animal food as well. The intelligence and nimbleness 
of rats, again, enable them to procure highly concentrated and 
palatable foods, and to place under contribution even those that 
man has stored for his own use. 



30 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

All the changes which the diet of our ancestors has under- 
gone since pre-simian times are traceable to the influence of 
these three factors. We shall see that the food of the great 
apes and the monkeys is for the most part condensed, consist- 
ing of the more concentrated vegetable foods, with the addition 
of that most concentrated of all food animal tissue. The 
fact that many of the monkeys are provided with a large caecum, 
and the further fact that all the great apes possess a vermiform 
appendix, indicating their descent from ancestors having a 
very capacious caecum, show that apes and monkeys are alike 
derived from beings whose diet was more bulky than their own. 
Evidently with the advance hi intelligence and dexterity the 
evolving primate gradually abandoned the herbivorous for a 
more concentrated frugivorous diet, becoming also in part an 
animal feeder. That monkeys and apes, hi spite of their 
great intelligence, are not more carnivorous than they are is 
probably to be explained by their essentially arboreal habits 
and their lack of the necessary bodily equipment for securing 
an abundance of animal food. 



THE DIET OF THE PRIMATES BELOW MAN 

Zoologists include under the Order Primates, besides man 
himself, the lemur-like animals (Lemuroidea) and the man-like 
animals (Anthropoidea). The latter include the great tailless 
apes (gorilla, chimpanzee, orang, and gibbon), of all animals the 
nearest akin to man, and the monkeys, of which the baboons are 
the highest representatives and the marmosets the lowest, the 
latter, as Huxley pointed out, being actually farther below the 
great apes than the great apes are below man. Nuttall has 
shown that, tested by the blood, the great apes are the most 
closely allied to man, the baboons standing next closest of kin, 
while the lemuroids give no indication of any blood relationship. 
The lemurs are the most carnivorous of the primates, while 
the guerezas and the langurs are the most vegetarian. 

The monkeys. Summarizing our knowledge of the diet of 
the monkeys we may say that while it is in the main frugivorous 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 31 

it is also partly animal. Their animal food includes birds, 
birds' eggs, mice, lizards, frogs, shell-fish (on which certain 
species subsist almost entirely), grubs, scorpions, centipedes, and 
insects. Honey is devoured by some of the baboons and by the 
guenons, and gum by the baboons and probably many other 
monkeys. Their vegetable food comprises fruit, seeds, roots, 
tender shoots, and leaves. All the monkeys appear to rob plan- 
tations when they get the chance. The fact that baboons are 
known to dig up roots and search under stones for insects and 
grubs is of interest as showing the high degree of intelligence 
they bring to bear on the food quest, and as suggesting that 
man's precursors began early to use their hands in these ways. 
It is also worthy of note, in passing, that several varieties of 
monkeys employ stones and other missiles against their enemies : 
baboons hurl stones ; guenons repel intruders with stones and 
branches of trees ; there is even evidence that pitched battles 
may take place among certain species of langurs for the posses- 
sion of feeding grounds probably the chief casus belli throughout 
man's entire history. 

The great apes. Coming now to the diet of the great apes 
we find that, as in the case of the monkeys, they are mainly 
frugivorous their vegetable diet, that is to say, consists 
chiefly of vegetable food in its more concentrated forms 
though they are also to some extent animal feeders. The 
gorilla is apparently the most, and the orang the least, 
carnivorous of the great apes. It seems likely that animal 
food is chiefly sought after by them when vegetable food 
is scarce : insects, grubs, vermin, lizards, snakes, rats, 
mice and other^ small mammals, birds' eggs, and birds are 
then devoured. We have seen no mention of their con- 
suming fish in their natural state, yet it may well be believed 
that they do so upon occasion. Nor have we met with any 
evidence of their eating honey, though seeing that this valuable 
and toothsome food enters into the dietary of many monkeys 
which are much below the apes in intelligence, it is scarcely to 
be doubted that the latter indulge in it when opportunity offers. 
Their vegetable food consists, like that of monkeys, of seeds, 
fruits, young shoots and leaves, succulent barks, and possibly 



32 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



also of roots and gums, though of this there is no direct evidence. 
One definite conclusion we can draw from the study of the 
vegetable food of the apes namely, that since much of it is 
from its coarseness and acridity unfit for human 
consumption, the coarser and less palatable 
varieties must have been gradually discarded 
MM by the evolving man as the means of procuring 
other and better kinds increased. 



To summarize then : the diet of the pri- 
mates below man (i.e. of the monkeys and 
the great apes) is mainly vegetable, and so far 
as these animals are vegetable feeders they are 
essentially frugivorous, their food consisting, 
not mainly as in the case of the herbivora, of 
grasses, leaves, and young shoots, which in 
order to afford a sufficiency of nutriment must 
be consumed in large quantities, but of the 
more concentrated fruits and seeds : in short, 
the diet of these primates, as of all highly intel- 
ligent animals, is a concentrated diet, consist- 
ing of concentrated vegetable foods and to a 
less extent of the yet more highly concentrated 
animal foods. 



- -t 

- 

- -7 

-* 
-i-* 



FIG. 1. The Evo- 
lution Ladder, 
showing Man's 
Ascent from 
the Ape. 

The third rung, 3, 
represents the posi- 
tion of man's primi- 
tive anthropoid pre- 
cursor, with a cranial 
capacity of 300 c.c. 
The highest rung, 15, 
represents the posi- 
tion of modern civi- 
lized man, with a 
cranial capacity of 
1,500 c.c. The dig- 
nity of manhood was 
attained, it is as- 
sumed, at the tenth 
rung i.e. when the 
cranial capacity was 
1,000 c.c. The simian 
stage, or stage of the 
man - like apes, ex- 
tend xl from the third 
to the fifth rung ; the 
homo-simian stage, or 
stage of the ape-like 
man, from the fifth to 
the tenth ; and from 
the tenth rung on- 
ward is represented 
the stage of man. 



THE DIET EPOCHS 

The dietetic career of the evolving man 
from simian times onwards has been charac- 
terized by three signal advances, each of which 
has greatly augmented his supply of food. 
Before considering these a word may be said 
as to a convenient method of denoting the 
successive grades, or stages, in man's evolution 
from his simian ancestors. This is by reference 
to cranial capacity (see Fig. 1). Assuming the 
latter hi the common ancestor of man and the 
great apes to have been 300 c.c., and in the 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 



33 



average European of to-day to be 1,500 c.c., we may mount 
upwards to the 1,500 c.c. by successive grades of 100 c.c., or, 
striking out the noughts, from 3 to 15. Thus we may speak of 
a third-, fourth-, and fifth-grade Simian ; of a sixth-, seventh-, 
eighth-, and ninth-grade Homo-simian ; and of a tenth-, 
eleventh-, twelfth-, thirteenth-, fourteenth- and fifteenth-grade 
Man. 

The first great dietetic advance made by the evolving man 
occurred (say, at the tenth grade, see Fig. 2) when the genuine 
hunting and fishing stage was entered upon when man began, 
i.e. systemically to employ artificial 
aids in capturing his animal food, 

j .1 ,1 . Artificial production) 

and thus came greatly to increase of food by .gricm. 

tore and breeding^ 

its supply, and to be correspondingly oi 
less dependent upon vegetable food. 

Preparation of food 

Until he had in this way developed by Cook07> eu 

. , , . , . 1^1 i Employment of 

into a skilled hunter and fisher, he ^J^tf af^ j 



Seccod great adraace 



Tint great advance 



--8 



- -1 



FIG. 2. Diagram indicating the 
Three Great Dietetic Ad- 
vances made by Man in the 
Course of his Philogeny. 



could procure none of the larger 
game, except by an occasional lucky 
chance, and only a very limited 
quantity of fish. 

The second advance came (say, 
soon after the eleventh stage) when 
he began to subject his vegetable 
food to preparation, such as sun- 
drying, grinding, maceration, and 
above all cooking, the last process 
probably not being adopted until 
after he had learnt to employ the three more primitive methods. 
The employment of cookery, by converting the innutritious into 
the nutritious, led to a considerable increase in the supply of 
vegetable food and opened the way to the cultivation of grain 
and roots otherwise comparatively useless. 

The third advance preceded by the minor step of learning 
the secret of storage against seasons of dearth occurred when 
man began (at about the thirteenth stage) to cultivate the plants 
and to breed the animals he had come to value. Once he had 
fairly entered on this stage he in one bound increased his food 

3 



(The period of Migratory Agricul- 
ture and 



34 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

supply a thousandfold, and became able to multiply and progress 
in a manner hitherto quite impossible. 

We are now in a position to tabulate the following epochs 

and periods. Thus : 

/The Simian period (3rd-5th grade ). 

1. The pre-cookery epoch. The Homo-simian period (5th- 
Prom the ape stage to the invention 10th grade). 

of cookery, 3rd-ll '25th grade. The Early Hunting period (10th- 

l 11 -25th grade). 

2. The pre-cibicultural cookery 
epoch. From the invention of 
cookery to the introduction of 
agriculture and the breeding of 
animals for food (ll'25th-13-5th 
grade). 

the time man began to produce his { The period of Stationary 
food artificially to the present day. A ,u (Early. 

These diet periods we will now consider seriatim. 

1. THE SIMIAN PERIOD 

Our study of the food of the primates enables us to draw 
the following deductions regarding that of our simian pre- 
cursors (3rd-5th grade), beings akin to the surviving great apes. 
The descendants of animals of herbivorous habits, they were 
themselves in the main frugivorous, subsisting chiefly on concen- 
trated vegetable food, such as seeds, nuts, and berries, as well 
as on the less concentrated luscious fruits, leaves, and young 
shoots, and probably also on roots (which were scratched or 
pulled up), gum, honey, and the bark of certain trees. Much 
of the vegetable food, owing to the large admixture of cellulose, 
was dense and coarse, and of a kind which would be highly 
disagreeable to the palates of their human descendants from 
the predominance of sour, bitter, and acrid principles. The 
animal food consisted of grubs, caterpillars, ants, ants' eggs, 
snails, insects (e.g. spiders, grasshoppers, beetles, and the like), 
reptiles (e.g. lizards, snakes), birds, birds' eggs, the smaller 
mammals (e.g. rats and mice) ; possibly also of shell and other 
fish from the lakes and streams. 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 35 

2. THE HOMO-SIMIAN PERIOD 

The next period (5th-10th grade) saw the simian pre- 
human struggle upwards from ape to man. He gradually 
spread from his cradle-land in Southern Asia or Northern Africa 
over the then existing Indo-African continent, leading, we 
may conjecture, a comparatively stationary or non-nomadic 
life, and subsisting chiefly on raw vegetable food. As his intel- 
ligence increased, however, and with it the means of procuring 
animal food, he became less and less a vegetable feeder and 
more and more carnivorous, though he was at this time able 
to secure only the smaller animals and a limited quantity of 
fish, being as yet without hunting weapons and fishing tackle. 
With this animal addition to his food he naturally came by 
degrees to abandon, and thus to lose the power of digesting 
the most indigestible and unpalatable forms of his vegetable 
supply. 

3. THE EARLY HUNTING PERIOD 

The hunting period (10th-ll'25th grade) 1 may be said 
to have begun with the employment of special weapons and 
devices in hunting and fishing such as are employed by 
extant pre-cibiculturists. Until these had been devised none of 
the larger animals and only small quantities of fish could 
be secured as food. While, therefore, the diet of the homo- 
simians was always becoming more and more animalized as 
their evolution advanced, it was not until he had become an 
adept in the arts of the chase that the evolving being (whom 
we may now suppose to have attained the dignity of manhood 
the invention of hunting and fishing appliances and the con- 
triving of trapping surely constituting a title to this distinction) 
became perhaps even more carnivorous than vegetarian. What 

1 Though the writer dates the commencement of the hunting period from 
about the 10th stage of man's evolution, he has no doubt that man 
had attained to considerable skill as a hunter long before this. He 
probably began to fashion hunting and other implements quite early in 
the homo-simian period. 



36 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

makes this probable is the fact that the diet of the extant 
pre-cibiculturists consists on an average of equal parts of animal 
and vegetable food. (We exclude from consideration the 
Esquimaux who live under exceptional climatic conditions.) 
Now all these people are skilled in cookery, and are able by its 
means greatly to increase their supply of vegetable food; from 
which we may conclude that without the aid it affords they 
would of necessity be more carnivorous than vegetarian, and 
we may fairly assume that such was the case with man in the 
period immediately preceding the advent of cookery. It must 
not, however, be forgotten that the introduction of cookery 
led our progenitors, as we have just seen, to abandon many of 
the coarser and less palatable varieties of vegetable food, and 
that the pre-cookery semi-human was thus presumably more 
capable of subsisting on raw uncultivated vegetable food than 
is any pre-cibicultural man extant, and this capacity may have 
been handed down unimpaired as late as the early hunting 
period. 

Another effect of the enhanced skill in hunting was that 
it enabled man to spread into regions which without it would 
not have provided him with sufficient food : we may, in fact, 
date his dispersal far and wide over the earth from the beginning 
of this period, though it is quite possible that no very general 
migration took place until he had learnt to prepare his vegetable 
food artificially and so had greatly increased its supply. There 
can be little doubt that the ability of man to spread over the 
earth was a question of food supply rather than of climate. 

During the whole of these pre-cookery periods the evolving 
man had, like all other vegetable-feeding mammals, to subject 
his vegetable food to thorough mastication. All raw vegetable 
foods, except the luscious fruits, of which the nutrient constitu- 
ents consist mainly of soluble salts and saccharides, 1 require 
prolonged mastication in order that the non-digestible cellulose 
chambers in which their starch, protein, and fat are contained 
may be broken up. Even herbivorous animals, which are 
provided with special means of digesting cellulose, need to 

1 The term " saccharide " is used as s ynonymous with "carbo-hydrate." 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 37 

masticate their food laboriously if it is to yield its full comple- 
ment of nutriment. This is testified by the phenomenon of cud- 
chewing and by a variety of other facts, such as the frequency 
with which grains of corn pass intact through the alimentary 
tract in the case of old horses with worn-down teeth, or of 
younger horses given to bolting their food. 

It is therefore evident that throughout these periods the 
masticatory apparatus of our progenitors must have been put 
to constant and arduous use, with the result that all the starch 
ingested was thoroughly masticated. Now inasmuch as the 
intake of starch in those far-off times, before man had learnt 
to cook or to improve his vegetable food by cultivation, was 
limited, it is obvious that most of it was digested into dextrine 
and maltose within the mouth, and that comparatively little 
passed into the stomach in the crude state. It will thus be 
seen that until the invention of cookery the stomach of the 
evolving man had but little acquaintance with undigested starch, 
saccharide material entering it for the most part in the soluble 
form, either as grape sugar, fruit sugar, cane sugar, or, finally, 
as the products of salivary digestion, i.e. dextrines and maltose. 

4. THE PRE-CIBICULTURAL 1 COOKERY PERIOD 

The importance of the invention of cookery relates almost 
entirely to its effect on vegetable food. It is probable that 
before man learnt the art he had already begun to prepare his 
vegetable food in other ways, as by sun-drying, grinding, and 
burying-processes which in many cases increase its digestibility, 
and by maceration, whereby poisonous and acrid ingredients 
may be got rid of. When he learnt to subject it to these 
various methods of preparation, but still more when he began 
systematically to apply artificial heat to it, i.e. to cook it, he 
greatly augmented his supply, for there are many highly nutri- 
tious vegetable substances which in the unprepared state, either 
on account of the large proportion of dense cellulose they contain 
or of their admixture with noxious substances, are of little or 

1 The terra " cibiculture " is convenient as signifying the cultivation of 
food, animal as well as vegetable. 



38 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

no food-value to him, but which by cooking and other means 
can be converted into valuable nutriment. Hence with advances 
in the art of cookery and it is surprising to what a degree of 
excellence that art had attained hi the latter part of this period 
the supply of vegetable food steadily increased, and the 
hunter found himself to some extent released from the chase 
and freer to devote himself to other pursuits. These changes 
continued throughout the periods under consideration, until 
vegetable food came to constitute one-half, or more, of the 
total dietary. 

The chief effect of cooking on vegetable food is to cause 
the starch granules to swell up and rupture the non-digestible 
cellulose chambers in which they, as well as the protein and 
fats, are contained. It is for this reason, and also because 
starch is more digestible cooked than raw, that cooking greatly 
adds to the digestibility of all vegetable substances containing 
an abundance of cellulose, while at the same time it relieves 
the organs of mastication of much of their work. The system- 
atic adoption of cookery, therefore, led man to subject his 
vegetable food to less mastication than before, with the result 
that its starchy ingredients underwent so much the less oral 
digestion, and inasmuch as with the advent of this period more 
starch was consumed than previously, it is clear that more 
undigested starch entered the stomach than had hitherto been 
the case. 

The abandoning of, and the corresponding loss of power to 
digest hi the raw state, the less digestible and less palatable 
kinds of vegetable foods which characterized the homo-simian 
and early hunting periods, went on with accelerated rate after 
man had once begun to subject his food to artificial preparation. 
Thus he came to depend less and less upon raw vegetable 
produce and finally to limit himself to the easily digested kinds 
only. 

COOKERY 

The antiquity of cookery. There can be little question that 
one of the earliest uses to which man put fire was to cook his 
food. Cookery was doubtless hi the first instance practised in 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 39 

a desultory fashion, and not until it was employed system- 
atically can the genuine period of cookery be said to have 
begun. The most primitive peoples now living cook their 
food, and that they have for ages done so is shown by the fact 
that, though now widely separated both ethnologically and 
geographically, they employ identical methods of cookery : thus 
the aboriginal Australians and Californians, the Bushmen, 
the Andamanese, and the Ainus all know how to extract noxious 
principles from their vegetable foods, and all employ under- 
ground ovens. These ovens, as well as the methods employed 
for extracting noxious ingredients, are so remarkably alike 
amongst present-day pre-cibiculturists as to make it prac- 
tically certain that they had a common origin, and the circum- 
stance that some of these peoples, e.g. the Australian natives 
and the American Indians, were for long ages cut off from the 
rest of the world, points to their having taken their methods 
of cookery with them at that remote time when they first migrated 
from a common centre ; nor can there be much doubt that those 
methods had been hi use long before that migration took 
place. 

The evolution of cookery. The simplest method of cooking, 
and doubtless that first employed, is by holding the food over, 
or actually placing it on, the fire, or in hot embers. Vegetable 
food does not as a rule allow of this process, because of the 
readiness with which it burns, but some kinds, e.g. roots and 
large seeds, may be roasted in hot embers, and existing pre- 
cibiculturists sometimes resort to this method. 

The first great advance in the art of cookery was the inven- 
tion of the underground oven, by means of which food, especially 
the vegetable varieties, can be cooked much more efficiently 
than by the primitive methods just described. Oven-cookery 
was probably suggested by the custom, still occasionally prac- 
tised, of kindling a fire over the food to be cooked. It was but 
a step from this to digging a hole in the ground, into which to 
put the food, and, then making a fire over or around it. The 
next step, we may assume, was to heat the walls of the hole 
by means of a fire and, having raked out some of the ashes, to 
place the article to be cooked inside and then cover it up in 



40 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

order to retain the heat. Finally, we arrive at the most advanced 
phase of underground oven-cookery, i.e. by means of heated 
stones. These and the food are placed in alternate layers within 
the oven, forming a pile above the level of the ground, the whole 
being covered with matting, leaves, grass, or the like. This 
method may be described as " stone-baking." Generally, 
however, the oven is lined with, and perhaps also the layers 
of food and stones are separated by, some vegetable substance, 
so as to generate steam, which then becomes the active agent 
in the cooking, a method which may be described as " stone- 
steaming," and a very admirable one it is. Without metals or 
pottery which among us could devise a better ? 

The next great development in the art came when man 
discovered how to boil water. In some parts of the world, 
e.g. in the neighbourhood of the once famous terraces of New 
Zealand, nature has provided boiling pools which afford a ready 
means of cooking food, and the Maoris do in fact use them for 
this purpose. The food is placed in a basket or netting, which 
is lowered into the water by means of a string made fast to some 
fixed object, and there left until it is cooked. It was not, how- 
ever, until a comparatively recent period, probably not until 
long after he began to employ underground ovens, that man 
taught himself to boil water wherever he might be. That the 
method of boiling food post-dated that of baking or steaming 
it in ovens is shown by the fact that certain pre-cibiculturists 
have not yet attained to it. Such is the case with the Australian 
aborigines, and their ignorance of the device seems to show 
that it was not thought of until late in the cookery period. The 
Fuegians and Bushmen are also said to be unacquainted with 
it. < 

The great obstacle to the boiling of water which presented 
itself to primitive man lay in the fact that he possessed 
no vessel capable of resisting the action of fire. Pottery, it 
should be remembered, is of quite recent introduction : it is un- 
known to present-day pre-cibiculturists and belongs, in fact, to 
the cibicultural period. With the exception of shells, the 
only fireproof vessels in pre-pottery days were those made 
of hewn stone, but the making of such vessels entails great 



41 

labour, and they do not appear ever to have been widely 
employed for cookery of any kind. How, then, did man 
first boil water ? Before answering this question let us first 
consider what vessels he employed for holding water. The 
most primitive were those fashioned by nature, such as segments 
of gourd-rind, the shells of shell-fish and eggs (e.g. those of the 
ostrich), the bamboo cane, and even the human skull. At a 
later stage he learnt to make vessels of skins and closely 
plaited rushes. It is obvious that none of these can be 
used as saucepans, though the Botocudos are said to have 
boiled water in bamboo vessels held over the fire. A water- 
tight vessel which does not admit of being placed over a fire 
may, however, be used for heating water by filling it with water 
and then dropping in heated stones. This ingenious method 
no doubt the earliest was widely practised among primitive 
peoples and is still employed by some of the pre-cibiculturists, 
such as the Calif ornians, the Esquimaux, and the Andamanese. 
It was in use also in isolated parts of Europe until within com- 
paratively recent times. In Ireland hot stones were used for 
warming milk in the seventeenth century, and in Finland in 
the making of beer as late as the eighteenth century. In the 
earliest times the vessels most frequently employed for stone- 
boiling by the Californians, the Fuegians, the Kaffirs, and the 
native Australians were made of closely plaited rushes. 

Cookery first employed for vegetable foods. The question 
whether at the beginning of the cookery epoch the process was 
employed equally for animal and vegetable food, or for the one 
more than for the other, is of great interest. We believe that 
it was in the first instance chiefly, if not entirely, applied to 
vegetable food. There were many reasons why man should cook 
the latter, and few inducements for him to cook his animal food. 
We have seen that cookery promotes the digestibility of all 
vegetable substances, the luscious fruits only excepted. On 
animal food it has no such effect : true, the connective tissue is 
gelatinized by heat, but on the other hand, the proteins are 
coagulated and, if anything, rendered less digestible than in the 
raw state. W T hy, then, should early man have been prompted 
to cook his animal food ? It is true that cooked flesh is to us 



42 

more savoury than raw, but it is very doubtful whether it was 
to him, and whether he would be at great pains to cook it merely 
for the sake of improving its flavour. He was a hunter and 
largely carnivorous for long ages before he learnt to cook at 
all, and what he strove after so eagerly we may be sure he 
devoured with no less avidity, and with all the savage relish of 
the genuinely carnivorous animal. 

Strange to say, Cuvier held that man became an animal 
feeder by virtue of cookery, and quite recently the same view 
has been put forward by Dupont, Boidier, and Berge. " It can 
be asserted with complete assurance," observes the last-named 
writer, " that if man has been able to include flesh foods in 
his dietary it is essentially because he has been enabled to submit 
them to the action of fire. Unless cooked, these foods are very 
difficult of assimilation (sic) and cannot therefore enter into 
his dietary." This view is altogether untenable, for not only 
is raw animal food without question very readily assimilable, 
but man was a hunter long before he employed cookery. 

As further suggesting that cookery was in the first instance 
mainly, if not exclusively, employed for vegetable food we may 
cite the fact that all the surviving pre-cibiculturists (with the 
exception of the Esquimaux, who are necessarily almost entirely 
carnivorous) spend much time and care in cooking their vege- 
table food, often putting it through processes truly amazing 
in their complexity, while their animal food is either eaten 
actually raw or cooked in an altogether casual and haphazard 
fashion. Not less significant is the fact that the practice of 
eating raw, or semi-raw, animal food can be traced down to 
modern times in peoples who have entered upon the cibicultural 
stage. Thus the Andorobos of Africa sit round the carcass of 
their quarry and devour it raw, while other cibicultural African 
tribes are known to drink the blood of animals, both living 
and dead, a practice which is even to this day not unknown in 
Europe. We have it from an eye-witness that a Swedish sports- 
man, having shot a stag, put a flask to its cut throat and, filling 
it, drank off the blood with gusto, and the custom clearly survives 
among deer-stalkers in Scotland, when they drink to the words 
" more blood " a jorum of whisky by the body of the quarry. 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 43 

Nor must we forget that neo-man does not refuse raw animal 
food :' oysters and other shell-fish are eaten raw, raw ham is 
a common article of food on the continent, and a dish in which 
raw steak is the chief ingredient is by some gourmets greatly 
esteemed. Moreover, there is abundant evidence that the 
most delicately nurtured will in extremity devour raw animal 
food with avidity. 



THE FOOD OF EXISTING PRE-CIBICULTURISTS 

There still survive many peoples who are genuine pre-cibi- 
culturists, i.e. who neither cultivate the vegetable kingdom 
nor breed animals for food. They go naked, or nearly naked, 
spend most of their time in the food quest, are without metals 
or pottery, and ignorant of all but the most rudimentary 
arts. As might be expected they are found in the most inacces- 
sible parts of the world, where they have for long ages been 
more or less isolated from their fellows. They include the abori- 
ginal Australians, the Andamanese, the Californian Indians, 
the Esquimaux, the Bushmen of South Africa, the Veddahs of 
Ceylon, and the Hairy Ainus. 

ANIMAL FOOD 

With the exception of certain kinds which are to some 
tribes taboo for superstitious reasons, every species of animal 
food may be said to be acceptable to pre-cibicultural man. 

Grubs, insects, and reptiles. Grubs are eagerly sought after, 
nor are they to be despised as sources of nutriment, as they 
often attain considerable dimensions. Worms, scorpions, moths, 
grasshoppers, sandflies, crickets, locusts, centipedes, cater- 
pillars, and pediculi are also consumed. White ants are in 
great demand and considerable ingenuity is displayed in catching 
these and other insects. The Calif ornians catch ants by placing 
upon the ant-hill a piece of bark or fresh hide on which the ants 
swarm and from which they are brushed off into a bag : grass- 
hoppers are caught in nets, or by being driven into pits, either 
by beating the surrounding grass or by setting it on fire. Frogs, 



44 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

toads, lizards, and snakes are, when available, devoured by 
all pre-cibiculturists. 

It will be observed that we found all these varieties of animal 
food entering into the dietary of the great apes. 

Terrestrial mammals. The most notable mammal on which 
the pre-cibiculturist feeds is man himself, but on the whole he 
is but little addicted to cannibalism. Big game forms his 
chief supply of animal food, deer, antelope, and elk being the 
favourite objects of the chase. The inland tribes of Australia 
depend mainly for their animal food upon the kangaroo and 
other marsupials. As might be expected from the difficulty 
in procuring them, the carnivora seldom serve as food, though 
the Bushmen are said to eat the lion and the hyaena. 

The methods employed for hunting game would afford material 
for a large volume, and cannot be gone into here. 

Aquatic mammals. Among the Esquimaux the seal, the 
walrus, and the whale constitute the chief sources of food, while 
the Fuegians at the other extremity of the same continent live 
largely on seals and porpoises. 

Birds. Owing to the difficulty in procuring them, birds 
do not enter greatly into the dietary of pre-cibiculturists. 

Fish. All pre-cibicultural maratime tribes, such as the 
Fuegians and the Ainus, subsist largely on salt water fish, 
while inland tribes living near lakes and rivers procure fresh 
water fish, of which the most important, especially among 
the Calif ornians and the Esquimaux, is salmon ; there are 
times when the rivers of California are said to be actually 
" darkened with the swarms of salmon." 

Shell-fish. Both fresh water and salt water shell-fish, par- 
ticularly the latter, are eagerly sought after. Clams are con- 
sidered a great delicacy by the Californians, who display much 
skill in diving for them. The Fuegians also are expert divers, 
both sexes diving for sea-eggs. It is curious that the succulent 
oyster should be taboo to the aboriginal Australians. 

Methods of preparing animal foods. Among the pre-cibi- 
culturists animal food is, as we saw when considering the devel- 
opment of cookery, not infrequently eaten raw, and it is rarely 
more than very partially cooked. The Esquimaux indeed derive 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 45 

their name from their raw-flesh-eating propensities : frozen flesh 
they never hesitate to devour raw, and they consider the raw 
viscera of the ptarmigan a great delicacy. The Veddahs fre- 
quently devour raw animal food, and in any case cook it but 
slightly, often merely scorching it over the fire. The Fuegians 
readily eat raw fish : one of them, when given a live fish, instantly 
killed it by biting it near the gills, and then proceeded to de- 
vour the whole. Among the native Australians raw flesh is not 
objected to, though when time permits it is subjected to slight 
roasting. 

Grubs and insects are frequently eaten in the raw state. 
" It was not a pleasant sight to see an Australian woman divest of 
wings and legs the gigantic fly (cicula) and then gobble it alive." 

Animal food is sometimes boiled by the Esquimaux and the 
Californians, and occasionally more elaborate methods of cooking 
it are resorted to. Not infrequently it is eaten " high." The 
Esquimaux sometimes consume it in a state of actual putrefac- 
tion, when it is known as " mikiak " ; one dish highly esteemed 
by them consists of " rotten seals' heads." 

Insects are dried in the sun, after which they can be stored 
for some time. Flesh food and fish are also sun-dried and stored. 
Another plan, widely adopted, for preserving animal food is 
by smoking it ; the Californians store large quantities of smoked 
salmon. The Veddahs employ honey as a preservative. 

VEGETABLE FOOD 

Roots. Root-digging is an important industry among the 
pre-cibiculturists and furnishes a surprisingly large store of 
food. The task of digging falls to the women, and since the 
sole implement employed is a fire-hardened stick, it is, as may 
be imagined, no light occupation. 

Small seeds. Of the various kinds of vegetable food 
collected by the pre-cibiculturists perhaps the most interesting 
are grass seeds, for it was doubtless the recognition of their 
high nutritive value that led to the cultivation of cereals (maize, 
wheat, barley, oats, rice, and millet), a step which was in all 
likelihood a necessary forerunner of civilization. It is probable 
that all the pre-cibiculturists collect grass-seeds, when these are 



46 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

procurable : certainly the native Australians and Calif ornians do, 
the former harvesting the seeds of silver grass, bower grass, 
and millet, and the latter (among others) those of sand grass, 
bunch grass, wild rice, oats, and wheat. 

The larger seeds and nuts. Among the larger seeds may be 
mentioned those of the oak (acorns), sunflower, cactus, water- 
melon, and several species of pine and leguminous plants. Acorns 
entered into the dietary of the early European races, and are 
to this day largely consumed by the Calif ornians and the Ainus. 
Among the former the acorns are gathered by the squaws and 
the old men in deep conical baskets, and Powers describes how 
the invariable sound which salutes the ear as one approaches 
a village " is the monotonous thump thump of the pestles used 
by the patient women in pounding the acorn." So highly do 
the Californians prize the acorn that they dedicate to it a special 
dance. 

Fruits.~~ Many varieties of luscious fruits and berries are 
eaten. 

Green vegetables. These are chiefly valued for their 
component salts and water. The aboriginal Australians consume 
large quantities of the " pig's face " and sow-thistles, which are 
highly prized for the sake of the large amount of salt they con- 
tain". The Calif ornians eat much green food in the spring, 
especially ".clover, the early gathering of which is celebrated by 
the " clover' dance : " we read how a whole village may some- 
times be seenV ( l uat ' tm S * n a c l ver meadow plucking the blossoms. 
The wild lettu 106 i s a l so a favourite with them. 

Fungi. Th\ ou g n f little nutritive value fungi, when available, 

appear to be e**en largely by the pre-cibiculturists. 

Seaweed. Those living near the sea coast eat certain kinds 

of seaweed. 

Gum. Natu rft l vegetable gum is freely partaken of by 
some pre-cibicu Jturists, e.g. the Bushmen and the natives of 
Australia. 

The storage $ vegetable food. Vegetable food being much 
more easily storedV tnan animal, it is not surprising that the pre- 
cibiculturists shoulV^ store the former more commonly than the 
latter, though in tlv s respect they are surprisingly improvident. 



47 

Vegetable foods consumed in the raw state. Pre-cibicultural 
peoples consume their vegetable food both raw and cooked, 
but as might be expected, a larger proportion of it is eaten raw 
by them than by the cibiculturists. We moderns cook all our 
vegetable foods except the luscious fruits, nuts, and those 
which are eaten under the name of salads, the latter being gener- 
ally taken with vinegar, which helps in digesting them. On 
the other hand, pre-cibicultural man consumes a large quantity 
of vegetable food in the raw state, not only the luscious 
fruits, nuts, and green foods, seaweeds, and mushrooms being 
eaten uncooked, but also a considerable number of seeds and 
roots, the latter fact suggesting that before man began to cook 
he already grubbed up roots to eat just as we know baboons 
to do. 

It is an interesting fact that the pre-cibiculturists some- 
times put their vegetable food through processes of preparation 
other than cooking, notably crushing and maceration, the food 
thus prepared being eaten in the raw state. This strongly 
supports the conclusion already suggested that even before the 
invention of cookery man had begun to submit his vegetable 
food to artificial processes. To this day the Highland gillie 
is content to eat his oatmeal, mixed with a little water, in the 
raw state. 

The preparation of vegetable food. The pre-cibiculturists 
display, in the search and preparation of their vegetable food, 
a knowledge, resourcefulness, and ingenuity which cannot but 
excite our admiration. Sheer necessity has made them good 
practical botanists, well versed in the nature and characteristics 
of every species of plant likely to serve them as food, and 
their ingenuity has taught them to prepare these natural pro- 
ducts in a variety of ways. They know how to harvest and 
hull the wild cereals, how to dry and to grind various seeds and 
roots and to make of the flour biscuits, cakes, and puddings, 
and most remarkable of all how from a number of disagree- 
able and even deadly vegetable substances to prepare whole- 
some and palatable foods. The latter feat they chiefly accom- 
plish by maceration and the application of heat. 

As with the ingathering of the vegetable food, so, too, its 



48 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

preparation falls to the lot of the women : they it is who pull 
the grain, grind the seeds and roots, free them from acrid and 
poisonous matters, and undertake all the complex details of 
cooking. Cooking is, indeed, with them no light task, in proof 
of which it is only necessary to refer to the fact that roots are 
often cooked in rush baskets which rarely serve for more than 
two cookings. 

Sometimes vegetable foods are buried underground, and 
allowed to remain there until they have undergone partial 
decomposition, when they are dug up and consumed. 

Starch- and sugar-extraction unknown to the pre-cibicul- 
turists. It is somewhat remarkable that in spite of the 
elaborate processes through which certain of the pre-cibiculturists 
put their vegetable foods, in spite also of the fact that many 
of these foods are rich in starch and sugar, no pre-cibicultural 
people has learnt how to extract these substances. This is 
probably to be explained by the want of vessels suitable for 
holding water and resisting fire. 

Honey. No account of the food of the pre-cibiculturists 
would be complete without a reference to honey, which con- 
stitutes an wnportant source of nutriment for all of them, Esqui- 
maux and Fuegians only excepted. The quantity of honey 
obtained is often considerable. The Australian natives carry 
away in baskets specially made for the purpose what they cannot 
eat on the spot, and so large is the quantity which the Anda- 
manese obtain that they realize a respectable sum annually by 
selling it to the residents at Port Blair : they store it in bottles 
and barrels and are generally able to provide a continuous supply 
throughout the year. A common way of eating honey with 
the Australians is to smear a piece of porous bark with it. 
The honey then becomes partially absorbed, and the primitive 
sweetmeat is handed round, to be eagerly sucked and 
chewed by all the company in turn ; when sucked dry it 
is again replenished with honey and again sent round. 

DRINKS 

Water. The drink of the pre-cibiculturists consists of water 
obtained from pool, lake, spring, or stream. Though the 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 49 

Australians are known to dig wells down to a depth of eight 
feet, primitive tribes rarely resort to this method, partly 
because with their rudimentary implements it entails great 
labour, but chiefly because they seldom remain for any length 
of time in one place, and wandering about, select spots for 
encampment where water can readily be procured. In regions 
where water is scarce the Australian is sometimes able to 
slake his thirst by piercing the bark of certain succulent trees 
and tapping them for their watery sap. 

Inasmuch as the pre-cibiculturists are continually on the 
move and do not congregate in large numbers, the water they 
drink is probably but seldom tainted with sewage, and they 
consequently rarely, if ever, suffer from such water-borne 
diseases as enteric and cholera. 

Pre-cibicultural man generally drinks by bending down to 
the water's edge and applying his mouth directly to the liquid, 
in this resembling the anthropoid ape ; or he may use his hands 
as a cup, a method never employed by the apes, though they 
sometimes adopt the expedient of immersing one hand in the 
water and then licking off the liquid. Mr. Hillier informs us 
that certain Australian tribes employ a mode of drinking which 
may be described as " hand lapping," the water being shot by 
one hand with remarkable accuracy into the mouth, which is 
held from twelve to eighteen inches above the pool, the hand 
travelling to within about six inches of the mouth. Drinking 
vessels, such as shells, are only occasionally used. It would 
therefore seem that primitive man seldom, if ever, drinks with 
his meals, in this respect resembling the lower animals. 

Therapeutics of water. The pre-cibiculturists are not wholly 
ignorant of the therapeutic uses of water. The Australians 
imbibe large quantities for the cure of dyspepsia and sometimes 
prescribe the cold bath ; the Fuegians, when ill, drink freely 
of it in order to promote perspiration, while the Northern Cali- 
fornians employ it for the cure of a variety of maladies in that 
primitive form of Turkish bath to which the Franciscan Fathers 
gave the name of " temescal." 

Artificial drinks. Although the drink of the pre-cibiculturists 
is mainly confined to water, they do occasionally make artificial 

4 



50 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

drinks. The Australians prepare a beverage by dissolving 
" manna " and gum acacia in water, manna being a sweet sub- 
stance which exudes from the leaves of certain gum trees. The 
Californians soak crushed manzanita berries in water and imbibe 
the liquor by means of " the shaggy knob of a deer's tail," which 
thus does duty as a spoon. Doubtless they make other similar 
drinks. 

Ignorance of alcohol. The pre-cibiculturists are wholly 
ignorant of the art of making alcohol. That discovery be- 
longs to the agricultural period. 

5. THE CIBICULTURAL PERIOD 

The cibicultural epoch began, we may conjecture, some 30,000 
years ago. One of the first advances in the direction of vegetable 
food culture was the storage of supplies to provide against sea- 
sons of dearth ; a second was the protection of plants valuable 
as food, both of which agricultural foreshadowings are to be 
observed among the Australian pre-agriculturists. In the 
same way man had learnt to preserve and to store animal 
food long before he began to breed animals. Whether he 
cultivated plants or bred animals first we need not discuss, 
but it is certain that, in the New World at least, plants 
were first cultivated. In any case a great forward step 
was taken when man began to produce food artificially, 
when, instead of having to search laboriously for fruits, 
roots, and seeds, he took to cultivating them ready to his hand, 
and when, in place of spending long hours in the hunt which at 
best could yield but a very limited supply of animal food, he 
learnt to raise on his own account flocks and herds of oxen, sheep, 
goats, and pigs, and to breed birds of many varieties ; and when, 
again, he increased his supply of fish by building fleets of fishing 
vessels. 

The total effect of food culture has been to make man more 
vegetarian than carnivorous, inasmuch as it has increased the 
supply of vegetable more than that of animal food ;a given 
acreage of land yielding far more of the former than the 
latter. 



THE EVOLUTION OF MA.VS DIET 51 

So far as agriculture is concerned the epoch under considerar 
tion falls into two sub-periods : 

(a) The period of migratory agriculture, in which limited 
patches of virgin soil were planted, after little or no prepara- 
tion, and abandoned for new ones when the harvest had been 
reaped. During this, period man still remained a hunter, 
combining hunting and fishing with the desultory agriculture, 
and he still subsisted largely on the products of the uncultivated 
vegetable kingdom, some of which he cooked while others he 
ate raw. 

(6) The period of stationary agriculture our own when 
the ground is carefully tilled, manured, rolled, and, if neces- 
sary, irrigated. At the beginning of -this period man con- 
tinued to obtain a certain proportion of his animal food from 
the chase, but most of it was derived from the animals he had 
domesticated and from fishing ; similarly, while his vegetable 
food was obtained chiefly by cultivation, he still continued to use 
a small proportion of uncultivated vegetable food, eating it both 
raw and cooked. Even in Europe several species of wild plants 
and fruits are to this day gathered for food. 

It is important to distinguish between the period of migratory 
and the period of fixed agriculture, for so long as the human 
community was wandering and occupied almost entirely with the 
food quest, substantial progress in any direction was barred. 
It was only when agriculture had become stationary say some 
15,000 years ago and an abundance of highly nutritious veget- 
able food and, in some cases, of artificially reared animal food 
also, had been secured by the labour of a limited section of the 
community, it was only when in this way a large amount of the 
total sum of human energy was liberated and made available for 
other purposes than the food quest, that that complex division 
of labour which is essential to social progress became possible. 

Now we have seen that cookery led the way to agriculture, 
and it may therefore fairly be claimed for it that it opened the 
road to all the subsequent great discoveries of man and may 
thus be regarded as one of his greatest. 

It seems probable that man first cultivated fruits, next roots, 
and finally the cereals, the latter requiring more careful tilling 



62 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of the soil than either fruit-trees or roots. The cereals are much 
the most important of the three classes, owing to the large amount 
of protein they yield and the readiness with which they can be 
stored. Thus their cultivation paved the way for civilization. 
Payne indeed holds that without it civilization would have 
been impossible, but he perhaps underestimates the fact that 
there are other highly nutritious and easily stored vegetable 
foods, among which the pulses occupy a prominent place. 

Of the luscious fruits the most nutritious are the banana 
which contains a goodly proportion of protein the grape, the 
fig, and the date, all of which have been improved from their 
wild congeners almost beyond recognition. The food value 
of the cereals and the roots has been similarly augmented. 

We have seen how the quantity of starch available for food 
increased with the introduction of cookery ; it has been, of course, 
still further increased by means of agriculture, and starch is 
at the present time actually extracted and consumed in the pure 
state. Similarly with the supply of soluble saccharides grape 
sugar, fruit sugar, and cane sugar. Before the agricultural 
period these were only available in comparatively small quanti- 
ties which were derived mainly from the luscious fruits and 
from honey. With the progress of agriculture, however, and 
the cultivation of the date, fig, and banana, and in later 
times of the sugar cane and beetroot (from both of which 
cane sugar is now extracted in enormous quantities), the 
supply of soluble saccharide has reached astounding proportions. 

From the beginning of the agricultural period there has been 
a progressive abandonment of raw vegetable food, the power of 
digesting which, after steadily waning during the previous diet 
epochs, has consequently still further declined. 

Very few uncultivated vegetable foods are now eaten raw, 
and with the exception of the fruits very few of the cultivated 
varieties either. The tendency moreover is to prepare veget- 
able foods in forms exciting to less and less mastication. 
Vegetable food when boiled can be swallowed after less masti- 
cation than when baked, and when finely ground than when 
coarsely ground. Thus boiled suet pudding does not get so 
much chewing as unleavened bread made from coarse flour. 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 53 

Nevertheless, some soft vegetable foods tend to excite mastica- 
tion. Thus the mealies of the South African, and to a less extent 
the boiled rice of the Hindu, are so prepared as to give rise to 
considerable mastication ; on the other hand, certain kinds of 
bread and biscuits excite very little. If we glance at the vegetable 
food of the English people at the present time we shall find that 
hardly any calls for mastication. Boiled vegetables are all 
soft, and most of our farinaceous food takes a liquid, pappy, pul- 
taceous, or spongy form, such as potatoes (often mashed), bread 
(mostly new and with little well-baked crust), bread and milk, 
rusks soaked in milk, porridge, gruel, milk puddings (rice, tapioca, 
vermicelli, sago), other puddings (butter, suet, plum), cakes 
(caraway seed, currant), scones, buns, muffins, crumpets, pastry, 
(in forms too numerous to mention), macaroni, blanc-mange, 
biscuits. Of all these only bread-crusts and biscuits tend to 
excite mastication, and they very insufficiently, for the crusts 
are often soft and not rarely avoided, and the biscuits are gener- 
ally of a kind that readily crumbles between the teeth. The rest 
slide down into the stomach with pernicious ease, and afford 
little or no exercise for jaws or salivary glands. From the point 
of view of dietetics the present age may, in this country at least, 
be characterized as the " Age of Pap." 

The general effect of agriculture upon man's diet has there- 
fore been to accentuate the effects already noticed as following 
on the invention of cookery. There has been a further increase 
in the amount of starchy foods and, owing to diminished mastica- 
tion and insalivation, an increase also in the amount of crude 
starch entering the stomach. 

Concentration of diet. We have seen the diet of the evolving 
man becoming epoch after epoch more and more concentrated- 
At the present time this process has reached its acme, so that a 
high degree of concentration is perhaps the most characteristic 
feature of the neo-man's diet. 

How very condensed modern diet is does not seem to be ade- 
quately realized. Writers on treatment are constantly recom- 
mending a " highly nutritious diet," and the energy values 
of various foods are carefully estimated with a view to indicating 
their several nutritive values. Yet, as a matter of fact, it is no 



54 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

easy matter to prescribe an innutritious diet, unless it be one 
consisting of green vegetables or luscious fruits. That all kinds 
of animal food milk, eggs, fish, game, and " meat " are 
highly nutritious needs no insistence. The like is true of our 
most important source of vegetable food, the cereals, which 
contain a high percentage of protein and starch. Moreover, 
man has learnt to separate all the energy-yielding food-stuffs 
protein, fat, starch, and sugar from their natural combinations, 
and much of our modern food consists of these substances in what 
is practically the pure form. Thus fat is separated from milk as 
butter, and fat and casein in the form of cheese. Large quantities 
of starch, again, are extracted from vegetable substances, yielding 
such highly nutritious food as sago and tapioca, while enormous 
quantities of pure sugar are obtained from sugar-cane and beet- 
root, to say nothing of the large supply of vegetable fat and 
protein now placed on the market. 

This extreme concentration of modern diet has three con- 
sequences : (a) It is chiefly responsible for the present prevalence 
of constipation, a prevalence so great that man has actually been 
defined as " the constipated animal." (6) It promotes over-eating: 
a concentrated diet especially when at the same time it is soft, 
as so much modern vegetable food is, and thus slips easily into 
the stomach is apt to be consumed in excess before the sense of 
satiety is produced. (It does not seem unlikely that a type of 
person is being evolved capable of coping with an excess of food.) 
(c) It is rendering some extent of the alimentary tube, notably 
of the larger bowel, redundant. 

The artificial rearing of children. Another striking feature 
of the cibicultural age is the practice of bringing children up by 
hand. Among the pre-cibiculturists no infant can survive unless 
the mother can suckle it. Indeed, recognizing that if the mother 
dies during child-birth or if she cannot suckle her infant, it cannot 
be reared, they deliberately destroy it. Thus it came about that 
prior to cibiculture all mothers with defective nursing capacity 
were racially eliminated, i.e. prevented from leaving offspring 
who might inherit their defect, just as were those who were 
deficient in maternal instinct in the love of, and willingness 
to sacrifice themselves for, their offspring. For this reason the 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 55 

mammary function and the maternal instinct were, and still 
are, kept at a high level of efficiency among the pre-cibiculturists- 
The like is true of the early agriculturists. Not until man 
learned to obtain the milk of certain animals he had domesti- 
cated, such as the goat, the mare, and above all the cow, was it 
possible for mothers defective in nursing capacity to rear their 
offspring ; but these defective types being no longer racially 
eliminated, or at least not to the same extent as before, there 
has necessarily been taking place a lowering in the racial standard 
of mammary function. Similarly, when in the course of social 
evolution many mothers were able to relegate the care of their 
offspring to hirelings, it became easier for mothers defective in 
respect of the maternal instinct to leave behind them offspring 
all tending to inherit the like deficiency. It is not therefore 
surprising that in many respects the neo-woman should be 
maternally less well equipped than her primitive ancestors. 

We may observe the same kind of process at work among 
domesticated animals. Their breeding instincts are found to 
have been warped by man's interference. For instance, under 
natural conditions only those hens which are good sitters could 
rear a brood of chickens, but man places the eggs of the bad 
sitters under good sitters, or he artificially incubates them 
in a " foster mother," and the bad sitters being thus enabled 
to have offspring, this type is becoming more and more common. 
The like is true of the artificially reared pheasant, which now 
rarely lays its complement of eggs in a single nest, but generally 
deposits them in several separate places. 

Much as we may regret the fact, one can hardly doubt that 
women, whether from maternal incapacity or disinclination, 
will tend more and more to bring up their children by hand, 
and that the mammary function will in consequence undergo 
a progressive atrophy. Side by side with this maternal 
devolution we may look for a corresponding evolution to 
take place, by natural selection, in the digestive organs 
of the young human. Seeing that cow's milk has come to 
be the chief food on which artificially fed infants are reared, 
we may expect the infant's stomach to evolve the power 
of digesting this particular milk, and one cannot but wonder 



56 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

whether some enterprising person may not one day attempt 
the task of breeding an animal of which the milk shall approxi- 
mate in composition to human milk, so that the two evolutions, 
digestive in the infant and mammary in the animal, shall proceed 
towards the same point and eventually meet. 

Artificial drinks. On this subject it must suffice to observe 
that whereas the drink of pre-cibicultural man is almost entirely 
confined to natural water, neo-man relies almost entirely on arti- 
ficially prepared beverages. 

SUMMARY OF THE CHANGES WHICH HAVE TAKEN 
PLACE IN THE DIET OF THE EVOLVING MAN 

We may now rapidly review the chief changes which have 
taken place in man's diet during the successive phases of his 
evolution. 

1. Relative quantities of animal and vegetable food. Our 
ancestors were mainly vegetarian during the simian and homo- 
simian stages, but with increasing intelligence they natusally 
became able to obtain more and more of the much coveted 
animal food, such as insects, grubs, eggs, and the smaller game, 
and there took place in consequence a steady rise in carnivorism 
during these stages (see Fig. 3). With the advent of the early 
hunting period, and the ability to secure larger game and a 
considerable quantity of fish, man soon became actually more 
carnivorous than vegetarian. Then cookery, by increasing the 
supply of vegetable food, set the tide in the opposke direction, and 
by the end of the early cookery period man was about equally 
carnivorous and vegetarian. Thenceforward, with the develop- 
ment of agriculture, he became more and more vegetarian. 

2. Increased concentration of vegetable food. Vegetable 
food has become increasingly concentrated since the simian 
era (see Fig. 4). As the evolving man grew in intelligence 
he became more and more dainty in his choice, discard- 
ing the coarser and more bulky kinds in favour of the 
more concentrated. This was the easier seeing that with his 
increasing carnivorism he became correspondingly more inde- 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 



57 



pendent of vegetable food. The introduction of cookery 
tended in the same direction. It was not, however, until the 
agricultural period that his vegetable food reached a high 
degree of concentration. To attain this has, indeed, been the 



Agricultural 



Early cookery 



Early hauling 




Fio. 3. Diagram showing the Rela- 
tive Quantities of Animal and 
Vegetable Food Consumed dur- 
ing the Various Phases of Man's 
Evolution. 
The unshaded area indicates the 

quantity of vegetable food ; the shaded 

area that of animal food. 



Agricultural 



Erly oookCTy 




FIG. 4. Diagram showing the In- 
creasing Concentration (i.e. dimi- 
nution in bulkiness as repre- 
sented by the shaded area) of 
Vegetable Food from the Simian 
Era onwards. 



chief object of agriculture. At the present time, when all the 
food-stuffs starch, sugar, fat, etc. are extracted in their pure 
state from vegetable substances, the process of concentration 
has probably reached its limit. 

3. Change in the consistence of vegetable food. Just as the 
vegetable food of man has become more and more concentrated, so 
also has it become progressively softer. Before the adoption of 
cookery these two changes progressed at equal rate, but from 
the first employment of that process right up to the present 
time there has been a progressive abandonment of raw in favour 
of the softer cooked vegetable food (see Fig. 5). Agriculture, 



58 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



by diminishing the quantity of cellulose in vegetable food, has 
operated in the same direction. In this present neo-agricultural 
age the softness of our vegetable food has assuredly reached its 
limit, for in the first place only a small quantity of raw veget- 
able food is consumed, and that almost wholly of the com- 
paratively soft cultivated kind, and in the second place the 
cooked vegetable food is for the most part soft. 



Agricultural 



Early Cookery 



Early bunting 




Agricultural 



FIG. 5. Diagram showing the Rela- 
tive Quantities of Raw and 
Cooked Vegetable Food con- 
sumed during the Various Phases 
of Man's Evolution. 
The shaded area indicates the quantity 
of raw vegetable food consumed ; the un- 
shaded area that of cooked vegetable 
food. 



Early cookery 




Fio. 6. Diagram showing the In 
crease in the Quantity of Sugar 
consumed during the Various 
Phases of Man's Evolution. 
Xo attempt is here made to indicate 

the proportion of sugar to other fo~d- 

stuffs consumed. 



There can be little doubt that dental caries and pyorrhea 
alveolaris were practically unknown in pre-cookery times. They 
have increased in direct proportion with the softness of the 
vegetable food. 

4. Increased consumption of sugar. The quantity of sugar 
consumed has undergone a steady increase from simian times 
(see Fig. 6). Prior to the agricultural period sugar was derived 
from honey, the luscious fruits, and to a less extent from 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 59 

other vegetable substances. As the evolving human grew in 
intelligence we may assume that he secured an ever-in- 
creasing supply of luscious fruits, but it was not until he 
learnt to gather wild honey that he was able to obtain sugar 
in the pure form. When he first did this we cannot say, but 
it is not likely that he obtained honey in any quantity until the 
early hunting period, for the gathering of it demands considerable 
ingenuity. That he was able to obtain quite large quantities 
in the early cookery period is evident from our knowledge of 
extant pre-agriculturists. 

With the development of agriculture and the cultivation of 
such highly saccharine fruits as the date, the fig, the grape, and 
the banana, man's supply of sugar underwent rapid augmentation, 
and when he learnt to extract it from the sugar-cane and the 
beetroot the supply went up by leaps and bounds. At the 
present time thousands of tons of sugar are annually extracted. 
In our own country its consumption has within recent years 
increased enormously. 



INFLUENCE ON FUNCTION AND STRUCTURE OF THE 

SUCCESSIVE CHANGES IN THE DIET OF 

THE EVOLVING MAN 

The dietetic changes which we have been considering have 
been met by corresponding changes in function and structure. 

Function. The ability to digest animal food rose and fell 
with the quantity consumed during the various diet epochs, and 
was thus greatest during the early hunting period. The Esqui- 
maux may be regarded as being still in this stage, and doubtless 
their capacity to digest large quantities of animal food greatly 
exceeds that of the average man. 

The ability to digest vegetable foods in the raw state, especially 
the coarser kinds, has steadily diminished from the simian stage 
until the present time. One can scarcely doubt that our simian 
ancestors had special powers of coping with cellulose, as well as 
with the bitter and acrid constituents met with in many vegetable 
foods. 



60 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Since before the discovery of cookery most of the vegetable 
food was subjected to prolonged mastication and in consequence 
intimately mixed with saliva, we may presume that in pre- 
cookery times salivary digestion was correspondingly active, 
and that the amylitic power of the salivary glands was greater 
than it is in the neo-man who, owing to its softness, masticates 
his vegetable food very little. We must suppose that during 
the entire cookery period there has been a waning of the function 
of mastication. 

Seeing, moreover, that up to this period very little crude 
starch entered the stomach, we may assume that in pre-cookery 
times the digestive organs were intolerant of large quantities 
of starch, but that after the introduction of cookery their ability 
to deal with it steadily increased, becoming ultimately greatest 
in those communities which, like the Hindus, subsist mainly on 
vegetable food. 

The recent large increase in the consumption of sugar is 
probably leading to a similar increase in the power to digest 
sugar. 

These adaptations have taken place by natural selection, 
e.g. by the survival of certain types, a process which, indeed, we 
may see going on under our very eyes. Tens of thousands of 
starch-deluged and bottle-fed children are in our own country 
yearly weeded out, those best adapted to this mode of feeding 
surviving and handing down their peculiar digestive traits to 
their offspring. 

The adaptations referred to are congenital and racial, but in 
considering man's digestive capacity we must not lose sight of his 
extraordinary personal adaptability to different kinds of food, a 
characteristic which has doubtless been acquired in the struggle 
for existence, and has given him considerable advantage over other 
animals in that struggle. 

Of all animals the frugivorous mixed feeders exhibit the great- 
est adaptability to different kinds of diet. The herbivora have 
difficulty in digesting any food other than vegetable, while the 
carnivora experience a similar difficulty in digesting (in the raw 
state at least) any but animal food ; among the mixed frugi- 
vorous feeders, on the other hand, the range of digestive capacity 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 61 

is considerable, being widest in that most omnivorous of mixed 
feeders, man, and it is largely on this account that he has been 
able to range far and wide over the earth, and adapt himself to 
the different kinds of food afforded by different regions. Thus 
some, like the Esquimaux, have come to be almost pure animal 
feeders, and others, like the high caste Hindus, to be pure 
vegetarians. 

That man quite early in his philogenesis acquired great 
digestive adaptability is suggested by the fact that the anthro- 
poid apes can be made to subsist on a diet very like that of 
neo-man, though doubtless man's capability in this respect 
has considerably increased since simian times. 

This readiness of adaptation needs to be constantly borne in 
mind, for it shows that there is no fixed stereotyped dietary 
normal to man, as there is in the case of animals like the herbivora 
and the carnivora, but that he is capable of adapting himself 
to many and widely varying systems of diet, as is well attested 
by the very different dietetic customs prevailing in different 
countries. 

Nor must it be forgotten that individuals differ greatly in their 
digestive idiosyncrasies. We meet with some, e.g. who exhibit 
a natural tendency to vegetarianism and a dislike of animal 
food, and others who, though not objecting to animal food, have 
some difficulty in coping with any but small quantities, especi- 
ally when in the form of " meat." Such persons, arguing 
from themselves, are too apt to assume that man is by nature 
vegetarian and to decry all animal food as poisonous to him, the 
real truth probably being that their vegetarian leanings are 
atavistic in character survivals from a far-off frugivorous past. 

Structure. Though the functional changes which have taken 
place in the digestive system of the evolving man have neces- 
sarily a structural basis, those changes are, as far as they can 
be detected, far less marked than might perhaps be expected. 
There is a notable general resemblance between the digestive 
organs of man and of the great apes, a fact which shows that 
these organs in man have undergone very little visible change 
since simian times. One of their most striking anatomical 
differences is in the valvulae conniventes, which in the apes are 



62 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

rudimentary only. Another pronounced difference is the greater 
muscularity of the simian stomach, a character which fits it to 
cope with the coarse varieties of vegetable tissue which enter so 
largely into the food of the apes. 

We are, unfortunately, not able to state minutely in what 
respects the digestive organs of existing pre-cibiculturists differ 
anatomically from those of the neo-man. It is probable that the 
digestive tube is larger and more muscular in the former case. 

The dental formula of the apes is the same as for man, though 
the teeth of the former are larger and stronger than those of the 
latter, and therefore adapted for coarser and more vigorous work. 
Since man, before he learnt to break up the cellulose frame- 
work of his vegetable food by cooking, grinding, and other 
means, was compelled to make vigorous use of his maxillary 
apparatus, we may be sure that in the pre-cookery period his jaws 
and teeth were correspondingly strong and massive, but when, 
with the discovery of artificial means of disintegrating the cellulose, 
mastication was in great measure relieved of one of its chief func- 
tions, they began to get smaller, while dental caries, hitherto 
almost unknown, became less rare, invading chiefly the third 
molars (" wisdom " teeth). Again, as the effect of agriculture 
was to reduce the cellulose constituents of vegetable food and thus 
to render it more easy of mastication, we find the jaws and teeth 
further diminishing in size during the agricultural period and 
diseases of the teeth increasing in frequency. These effects 
were not, however, pronounced during the early agricultural 
epoch, partly because man still continued to eat freely of raw 
vegetable food, and partly also because much of his cooked 
vegetable food needed, owing to its coarseness, considerable 
mastication. It is not until we arrive at the neo-agricultural 
stage that the effect upon jaws and teeth of food artificially 
produced and prepared becomes pronounced. In consequence 
of the softness of modern food the jaw does not grow to its 
normal size, with the result that the teeth, whose growth is not 
affected to the same extent, are often unable to take up their 
normal positions. For these and other reasons associated with 
the softness of the modern vegetable dietary dental diseases 
have assumed alarming proportions. 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 6S 

THE SEASONAL ROTATION OF FOOD 

A minor point, but one which should not be overlooked, ia 
that change of season once had, and on the diet of the pre-cibi- 
culturists still has, a much greater influence than on our own to-day . 
The food of the former varies from month to month, nay, even 
from week to week. Thus we find the Californians in the early 
part of the year eating the bark of trees, then clover, next roots, 
and about the middle of summer, salmon ; after that various 
kinds of seeds come into season, then manzanita berries and pinon 
nuts, and finally acorns, while game and vermin of various kinds 
are consumed throughout the year. There is no such pronounced 
seasonal rotation of food among communities living in the modern 
cibicultural age. With the manifold facilities at our disposal 
for artificially producing, storing, and rapidly conveying food 
from place to place, we moderns are able to subsist upon much 
the same kind of food throughout the year. Butcher's meat, 
birds, fish, bread, rice, milk, cheese, butter, eggs, sugar, and some 
vegetables e.g. potatoes are available at all seasons. It is 
only in respect of highly perishable vegetable foods, such as 
green vegetables and certain fruits, that the influence of season 
makes itself decidedly felt, and this influence is every year 
becoming less and less, as new methods of storage are devised and 
more rapid means of transit provided. 

CONCLUSIONS 

We can now summarize some of the more important practical 
truths which the study of man's dietetic past teaches us. 

1. The fact that man has evolved from the ape on a highly 
carnivorous diet at once disposes of the contention so constantly 
put forward by the unreflecting, that he is essentially vegetarian 
by nature, arid that " meat " and other animal foods are neces- 
sarily harmful to him. Doubtless there are some who cannot 
tolerate meat, and to whom a diet largely, if not entirely, vege- 
tarian is the most suited, but such persons are exceptional, 
and it may be added subnormal, in respect of digestion and meta- 
bolism. " Meat " and other kinds of animal food are often 



64 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

credited with being the cause of ill-health when the saccharide 
constituents of the diet are equally, if not more, responsible, for in 
many cases in which improved health follows upon the curtailment 
of animal food an equally good, perhaps even a better, result 
could be obtained by cutting down the saccharides. Again, it 
is often contended that centenarians owe their great age in large 
measure to the fact of their having always eaten sparingly of 
meat, whereas it will generally be found that they have been 
just as moderate in regard to the other items of their food indeed, 
that they have observed moderation in most things. 

2. The fact that right up to the beginning of the agricultural 
period man's supply of sugar was scanty, whereas during it and 
especially within recent times, it has been enormously increased, 
suggests that ill-health may often result from its excessive con- 
sumption. Experience proves this to be the case ; we are often 
able to effect great improvement in health simply by reducing 
the intake of sugar. 

3. Since in pre-cookery times practically all the starchy 
food had to be laboriously masticated in order to break up the 
non-digestible cellulose portion, any "starch ingested underwent 
thorough insalivation, with the result that it was to a large extent 
digested in the mouth and only a small quantity entered the 
stomach in the crude form. At the present time, owing to the 
combined influences we have seen at work, not only is the propor- 
tion of starch in vegetable food much higher than it used to be 
some foods consisting, indeed, of practically pure starch but 
this substance is for the most part consumed in a form so soft 
that it slips into the stomach without having undergone any 
buccal digestion whatever. As a result the stomach is apt to 
be burdened with an excess of crude starch leading to disturbance 
of digestion, disorder of the blood, and impairment of nutrition. 

4. The facts that within recent times the supply of vegetable 
food has increased more than that of animal food, that the soft- 
ness of modern vegetable food favours its excessive consumption, 
and that enormous quantities of pure sugar are accessible, prepare 
us for the conclusion that the neo-man is more likely to suffer 
from an excess of highly saccharide vegetable food than from an 
excess of animal food. As a matter of experience we can, on 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 65 

the whole, do more good by curtailing saccharides than by cut- 
ting down animal food, and this even in such diseases as gout 
and megrim. 

5. Animal and vegetable food stand in sharp contrast as 
regards the need of mastication. In the raw state the former 
does not require any mastication while the latter needs 
a great deal. The carnivora do not masticate their food ; 
their teeth are adapted to tear flesh and crush bone, 
and are prevented by their shape from executing the lateral 
movements necessary to mastication. On the other hand, all 
the herbivora masticate their food laboriously, with the object, 
there can be no doubt, of breaking up its cellulose constituents. 
In the case of the ruminants food which has been swallowed is 
actually regurgitated for the purpose of being re-chewed at 
leisure, so essential in their case is efficient mastication to proper 
digestion. 

Again, the effects of cookery on animal and on vegetable food 
are opposite as regards the need of mastication. By coagulating 
the albumen of animal tissue cooking may so harden it as to make 
mastication necessary ; whereas by rupturing the non-digestible 
cellulose compartments of vegetable food (and thus liberating 
the contained starch, etc.), and also by its softening influence, 
cooking largely does away with the mechanical need of masti- 
cation. Hence cooked vegetable foods, especially the softer 
varieties, can be, and often are, swallowed without any more than 
a pretence at mastication, with the result that the jaws are not 
properly exercised nor the starch properly insalivated. We 
should therefore insist that some at least of the vegetable food, 
especially during the years of development, should be taken in 
forms which compel adequate mastication, such as stale bread, 
bread-crusts, and hard biscuits. Only in this way will oppor- 
tunity be afforded for the normal masticatory instinct to develop, 
an instinct too often stifled at its birth by the prevalent system 
of pap-feeding. 

6. The fact that during the entire period of his evolution from 
the simian man's vegetable food was eaten raw, whereas at the 
present time almost the whole of it is cooked, suggests that good 
may often result from increasing the proportion of raw vegetable 

5 



66 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

food, such as apples, bananas, nuts, and salads, all of which 
should be thoroughly masticated. 

7. The fact also that our vegetable food is so very much more 
concentrated now than it was in the time of our ancestors suggests 
the advisability of including a due proportion of bulky vegetable 
foods in our dietary. 

8. The food of primitive man was simple, consisting of animal 
and vegetable tissues in their natural state ; in other words, it 
was not subjected to elaborate processes solely for the purpose 
of pleasing the palate. Though it is not desirable on this point, 
any more than on any other, to aim at a rigid simplicity, yet the 
ideal dietary is in the main a simple one. 

9. Before the period of fixed agriculture the quantity of food 
was not in excess of physiological requirements, for though primi- 
tive man doubtless had his bouts of gourmandizing, he also had 
his intervals of enforced starvation ; moreover the constant 
food quest entailed an active mode of life which rendered chronic 
over-eating impossible. There might be abundance of game, 
but it had to be hunted ; the rivers migjit teem with fish, but 
the fish had to be caught ; seeds and roots might be plentiful, 
but they had to be gathered. Hence, though in seasons of plenty 
primitive man may have grown plump, obesity was practically 
unknown. These considerations suggest that though man is none 
the worse, and may, indeed, be all the better, for occasional 
dietetic indulgence, strict moderation in eating is the ideal to be 
aimed at. 

10. The fact that man is descended from an ancestry whose 
diet has for long ages varied considerably throughout the year 
in all temperate latitudes, helps to explain the evil effects of 
monotony in diet, and emphasizes the importance of introducing 
variety into it. 

11. It is evident from a study of his dietetic past that the 
digestive system of man is highly adaptable, and that conse- 
quently his dietary is not stereotyped as it is for the most part 
in the case of the lower animals, but is capable of being modified 
to an almost unlimited extent. 

To put briefly the chief lessons to be learnt from man's 



THE EVOLUTION OF MAN'S DIET 67 

dietetic history : The ideal dietary should be simple in quality 
and moderate in quantity. It should contain a certain propor- 
tion, say from a quarter to a third, of animal food. Animal 
food requires little chewing ; most raw vegetable food, and all 
cooked starchy foods require a great deal. Hence it is advisable 
to give most of the starchy foods in a form compelling vigorous 
mastication, and a certain proportion of vegetable food should be 
consumed uncooked. Care should be taken to guard against an 
excess of sugar. The diet should not be monotonous. Water 
should be the staple drink and should not be taken with food. 

But while these are safe general rules it must not be forgotten 
that marked dietetic idiosyncrasies are met with, and that 
men individually display considerable adaptability as pegards 
different kinds of food. Hence it is not possible to attempt the 
construction of a stereotyped dietary for man, nor if it were would 
it be advisable, since his dietetic adaptability is an advantage to 
the race. 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, 
ABSORPTION, AND NUTRITION 



CHAPTER III 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ABSORPTION, 
AND NUTRITION 

BY E. I. SPRIGGS, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

THE energy needed for the various activities of the body is 
furnished by the processes of oxidation which take place in 
every living cell. The oxygen used is obtained from the atmo- 
sphere. The chemical substances oxidized are derived from 
materials taken into the body, which we call food. The consti- 
tuents of the food are, however, seldom in a suitable condition 
for absorption into the blood, and before this can be effected 
they undergo a series of chemical and physical changes known 
as digestion. The products of digestion are then taken up by 
cells lining the alimentary canal, and passed into the blood in 
the process of absorption : this is not a simple transference of 
a given substance across the alimentary mucous membrane, 
but itself includes chemical change. Further, the material:, 
absorbed from the intestines into the circulating blood are 
not even then in a form entirely suitable for oxidation in a 
cell, but have to suffer later transformations which are comprised 
in the term assimilation. The molecules finally presented to 
the living protoplasm may be oxidized rapidly for the sake of 
the energy thus set free, or may be built up for a longer period 
of time into the tissues of the cell. 

The term metabolism is used to designate all the chemical 
processes occurring in the tissues of the body ; it includes build- 
ing up, assimilative, or anabolic processes, and breaking down, 
or katabolic processes, whether they take place in the essential 
protoplasmic structure or in the tissue fluids which bathe the 
cells. 

71 



^2 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Since the body is continually oxidizing its own substance, 
the materials supplied to the cells must, besides being capable 
of oxidation, contain the elements necessary to replace the 
tissues as they are broken down. The degree to which a cell 
Uses its own substance will vary with the needs of the body 
&fid the supplies of new material. If nutrition is adequate 
-and the calls made upon the cell not excessive, the cell will be 
able to furnish energy from the oxidizable substances avail- 
able, and the demand upon its own tissue will be minimal. In 
starvation, on the other hand, the body is obliged to fall back 
upon its own substance, using the less essential tissues first. 
tfhe food has thus to fulfil two functions, first, to supply the 
necessary elements for the structure of the body, and secondly, 
to furnish energy for the activities of the body. We may refer 
to these by speaking of the metabolism of structure and the 
metabolism of function. 

In the study of dietetics it is of great importance that these 
two purposes to which food may be put should be clearly borne 
in mind. 

The metabolism of structure includes the building up of 
the tissues and organs, the replacement of such portions of 
them as are continually being disintegrated, and the transforma- 
tions which these portions undergo before they are excreted. 
Both inorganic and organic substances are required for this 
purpose ; the inorganic, such as mineral salts and water, furnish 
no energy, but are as essential to the maintenance of the struc- 
ture of the body as the organic proteins which are built up 
into living protoplasm. 

The metabolism of function is concerned with the furnishing 
of energy for the performance of the normal functions of the 
various organs. For this, one or more of the organic food-stuffs, 
protein, carbo-hydrate, or fat is necessary. 

- Protein can therefore play two parts : it is essential to the 
structure of the body because the animal can obtain the nitro- 
genous materials necessary to form protoplasm from no other 
source ; and, on the other hand, when it is not needed for 
the growth or repair of tissue it can be oxidized and set energy 
free. 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 73 



DIGESTION 

The term digestion is applied to all those processes by which 
the food substances are converted into a convenient form for 
absorption. Digestion is carried on in the alimentary canal. 
This, regarded simply, is a hollow muscular tube richly supplied 
with blood vessels, having its mucous surface bathed with juices 
yielded by glands, and lined by epithelium from which these 
glands are developed and which along a great part of its length 
is possessed of the special property of absorbing nutritive matter. 
The food is exposed to the digestive juices at particular regions 
in its passage along the muscular tube, and the chemical changes 
which it undergoes are brought about by the action of ferments 
contained in these juices. The structure of the alimentary 
canal as well as the ferments provided in the secretions differ 
in various animals according to the nature of the food. A 
diversity of structure is shown at the very commencement of 
the digestive tube by the teeth. Carnivorous animals have 
long canines for securing and tearing their food. The herbi- 
vora are' provided with more molars, having a broad grinding 
surface suitable for the prolonged chewing which vegetable 
foods require to bring them to a semi-fluid consistence and to 
separate the fibre so that the digestive secretions may thor- 
oughly permeate the mass. Animals feeding on insects have 
upper and lower incisors which accurately fit one another. In 
man the teeth are of the omnivorous type and are suited both 
for cutting and tearing and for grinding. The importance of the 
thorough mastication of the food is shown by the frequency 
with which indigestion follows when the food is eaten too 
rapidly or the teeth are lost. 

The food, in the process of chewing, is brought into intimate 
relation with the saliva, produced from the parotid, sub-maxil- 
lary and sub-lingual glands and from numerous small glands in 
the mucous membrane of the mouth. The salivary glands 
are of especial historical interest, for their ducts were the first 
channels from pure secretory digestive glands to be discovered. 
That of the sub-maxillary gland was found by Wirsung in 1642, but 



74 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

its significance was first recognized by Wharton ten years later 
and described in a lecture before the Royal College of Physicians. 
The mixture of saliva from the different glands is an alkaline 
fluid containing 1 per cent of solids, consisting of mucin, 
a little protein and inorganic salts and a ferment ptyalin 
belonging to the class of amylases, which have the power of 
effecting the conversion of starch to sugar. The uses of saliva 
are mechanical and chemical. The solid food is mixed with it 
in mastication and made into .a semi-fluid mass which can easily 
be swallowed. In the whale, whose food and pharynx do not 
need to be lubricated by a secretion, the salivary glands are 
rudimentary. The saliva, by keeping the mouth moist, is 
also a great aid to articulation. 

The time which the food stays in the mouth is so short in 
man that the chemical action of the saliva cannot be at all com- 
plete, in spite of the fact that the action of ptyalin upon boiled 
starch is a rapid one. We shall see, however, that salivary 
digestion proceeds in the stomach for a considerable time after 
the food has been swallowed. 

The secretion of saliva is brought about reflexly by food, and 
this before any of it is put into the mouth. The sight, the smell, 
and even the thought of food is sufficient to excite a flow, pro- 
vided that the individual be hungry. Mechanical stimulation of 
the mucous membrane of the mouth has no effect, but food, and 
other substances with a strong taste, produce a copious -secretion. 
Of the four primitive tastes, acids are the most effective, then 
salts, then bitters and then sugar. Pawlow has found in the 
dog that the nature of the saliva differs with that of the food 
meat, for instance, calls forth a juice which is rich in mucin ; 
the dog does not thoroughly masticate meat but simply lubri- 
cates it with this mucinous fluid and swallows it. If some dry 
material be put into the mouth, the saliva produced is watery 
and contains but little mucin. These differences are due to 
the fact that the different salivary glands produce different 
kinds of secretion, that from the sub-maxillary gland, containing 
much mucin, being poured out when meat is taken into the 
mouth, whilst when a plentiful supply of fluid is required to 
dilute some dry material, the watery secretion of the parotid 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 75 

gland is provided. Malloizel reports that the psychical flow 
of juice which follows the sight of food also varies with the nature 
of the food, a secretion rich in mucin being poured into the mouth 
of a hungry dog at the sight of meat. 

The act of deglutition is begun by an ordered contraction 
of the muscles of the tongue, the soft palate and the pharynx, 
which surround the mass of food or of fluid and force it into 
the oesophagus. No other route is open, for the naso-pharynx 
and the larynx are both shut off by special muscular arrange- 
ments. The food is then grasped by the muscular wall of the 
gullet and passed down into the stomach. In the case of fluid 
the expulsion into the cardiac 'end of the stomach can be heard 
with the stethoscope over the lower dorsal spine, or the epigas- 
trium, and by this means it was ascertained that the course 
down the oesophagus occupies about 6 seconds. This has 
been confirmed by watching the passage of a bismuth mixture 
with the X-rays, the average time between the commencement 
of swallowing and the expulsion into the stomach having been 
found by Hertz to be between 5 and 6 seconds, though there 
is considerable variation in this time both between different 
individuals, and in the same person. The transit is much quicker 
in the upper part of the oesophagus, the muscle of which 
is striated, and slower below where it is unstriated, about half 
the time being taken up in going through the cardiac orifice. 
Hertz found that a solid dry mass, such as a cachet of bismuth 
carbonate, was passed down very slowly indeed, unless well 
lubricated with saliva, and on one occasion took as long as 15 
minutes to reach the cardia, the subject of the experiment being, 
however, under the impression that it had been successfully 
swallowed, and quite unconscious of its presence in the oeso- 
phagus. Such a delay does not take place with ordinary 
masticated food. 

As soon as the 'food reaches the stomach digestion proper 
begins. In this process the food is first rendered soluble and 
secondly converted into a form suitable for absorption. It 
is not sufficient for the materials to be broken down and 
dissolved. They will not be absorbed by the intestinal 
walls unless certain definite compounds are formed. Thus, 



76 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

all the carbo-hydrates, such as starch, glycogen, dextrin, maltose, 
cane sugar, and milk sugar, must be hydrolyzed to monosac- 
charides, such as dextrose, levulose, and galactose. Fats are 
broken up into glycerine and fatty acids. Proteins are hydro- 
lyzed to a large number of products belonging to the class of 
aminoacids. 

These changes are effected by ferments. Proteins are 
attacked in the stomach by pepsin which hydrolyzes them to 
the hydrated proteins, albumoses and peptone. These substances 
would be broken down still further by pepsin but the passage 
of the chyme into the small intestine removes them from its in- 
fluence and brings them under that of the powerful proteolytic 
ferment trypsin, which is more far reaching in its effects than 
pepsin, breaking down protein through albumoses and peptone 
into the aminoacids of which the molecule is built. A third 
ferment, erepsin, is contained in the succus entericus and aids 
in the disintegration of albumoses and peptone to aminoacids. 

Starches are attacked by the ptyalin of the saliva with the 
formation of the polysaccharide dextrin and the disaccharide 
maltose. Very small quantities of dextrose are also formed. 
In the small intestine the carbo-hydrates are digested by the 
powerful amylase (amylopsin) of the pancreatic juice which 
forms maltose and a little dextrose. The succus entericus 
contains a maltase converting maltose to dextrose, an invertase 
converting cane sugar to dextrose and levulose, and a lactase 
converting lactose to dextrose and galactose. 

Fats are split into fatty acids and glycerine by a lipase of 
weak action in the stomach and by a much stronger one, steapsin, 
in the small intestine. 

The ferments are of the highest importance, for not only 
do they play the chief part in the chemical changes which 
food suffers in the digestive canal, but it is in all probability 
by similar agents that the nutritional processes of the body 
as a whole are carried on. We must, therefore, consider 
briefly their general properties. Ferments have not been 
separated in a pure form, and we know little of their 
structure. This is because the actual amount of the ferments 
present in any solution is extremely small and because they are 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 77 

very unstable ; even if a large quantity of a fluid having a 
strong ferment action be taken for analysis, by the time that 
the proteins and other bodies accompanying the ferment are 
removed a large part of it has been lost or destroyed. As far 
as has been ascertained ferments generally contain nitrogen, 
and it is probable that they are similar in structure to the 
bodies upon which they act. They are extremely sensitive to 
external influences, being easily destroyed by heat, and very 
susceptible to dilute acids and alkalies ; pepsin, for instance, 
is only active in an acid medium and trypsin in an alkaline. 
All these ferments act by a process of hydrolysis, that is to 
say, the molecules upon which they exert their influence take 
up water and break down into simpler bodies. This method of 
disintegration is not in any way peculiar to ferment action. 
Weak acids or alkalies will cause hydrolysis of proteins and 
starches. At ordinary temperatures the change is small but it 
is much greater at boiling point. Boiling water alone will 
hydrolyze many substances, and even cold water does so, 
although very slowly. But the characteristic of ferment action 
is that the hydrolytic change is produced with great rapidity 
and at ordinary temperatures, each ferment having an opti- 
mum temperature which, in the cases we are discussing, is 
that of the body. This may be illustrated by the following 
experiments. The hydrolysis of a solution of muscle pro- 
teins in 4 per cent hydrochloric acid is accompanied in 
the early stages of the digestion by a fall in the viscos- 
ity of the solution which may be measured by the time taken 
by a given quantity of the fluid to flow through a capillary 
tube. In some observations of this kind the writer found that 
the change produced by pepsin in a few hours at body tempera- 
ture was greater than that produced by hydrochloric acid alone 
in days at the same temperature or in months at ordinary tem- 
peratures. Substances which possess the property of hastening 
chemical reaction without being themselves affected are known 
as catalyzers. To this class the ferments belong. They 
act by rendering the transition from one molecule to another 
easy, and have been likened to a ladder by the help of 
which it is possible to get over a wall. The ladder does 



78 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

not supply any energy and can be used an indefinite number 
of times without suffering change, and the same is true in a 
general sense of the whole class of catalyzers. It is to be noticed 
that the ferments are specific in their action ; each one can 
only attack substances of a definite chemical structure and 
moreover, in the case of isomeric substances, only those having 
the same stereo-chemical arrangement of their molecules. The 
way in which these substances act is the subject of research 
at the present time. It seems probable that a ferment com- 
bines with the material it affects, known as the substrate, and 
that this combination then takes up water and breaks down 
into simpler molecules, setting free the ferment which can then 
combine with another portion of the substrate. This is sup- 
ported, as Bayliss has shown, by the time relations of ferment 
action at different concentrations. The likelihood of such 
a combination is also upheld by the fact that a ferment can 
resist the action of heat to a much greater degree when in 
the presence of its substrate. Invertase, for instance, is 
destroyed at 60 C., but when mixed with cane sugar can 
survive a temperature 25 higher. 

The products of ferment activity have a retarding effect 
upon the reaction ; it is interesting to note that only those 
products exert this inhibition which have a definite stereo- 
chemical structure and it is supposed that this may be similar 
to that of the ferment. Thus the activity of the lactase which 
hydrolyzes lactose to glucose and galactose is hindered by 
galactose but not by glucose. 

It is possible that the combination between a ferment and 
its substrate is similar to that occurring between a toxin and 
an anti-toxin or a lysin and anti-lysin. According to the theory 
of Ehrlich a toxin is a molecule with a side chain, called the 
haptophore group, which can hook on to a tissue molecule, and 
another side chain, the toxophore group, to which the poisonous 
action of the toxin is due. The anti- toxin is supposed to 
neutralize the toxin by combining with the haptophore group 
which is therefore prevented from attaching itself to the 
tissues. Evidence has been brought forward to show that 
the combination between a toxin and an anti-toxin is not 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 79 

simply a chemical one. For instance, a certain quantity of 
toxin may be neutralized by a definite quantity of anti-toxin, 
but if the solution be diluted the neutralization is no longer 
complete. This and other considerations suggest that the 
combination may belong to a class of reactions partly physical 
in nature, known as the phenomena of adsorption, which have 
been observed in substances in the colloid state, that is to say, 
consisting of aggregates of molecules with a very large amount 
of surface. Near the surface of such suspended aggregates 
the concentration of molecules dissolved in the solution is dif- 
ferent to that elsewhere and this affects the velocity of reactions 
taking place between them. Now the food-stuffs upon which 
the ferments act are colloid in nature, and it is probable that 
the ferments are too, and if this be so, it may be found that the 
mode of operation of the ferments of the body belongs to this 
physico-chemical group of reactions. 

We may now follow the food-stuffs through the stomach 
and intestines. The food material passed from the gullet into 
the stomach lies in the cardiac part or fundus. In this mass 
salivary digestion goes on for a considerable time. Hensay found 
that in healthy young people 60-80 per cent of the carbohydrate 
food taken was dissolved in the stomach in one-half to three- 
quarters of an hour. It has also been shown that in rabbits, 
guinea-pigs, and cats salivary digestion goes on for a considerable 
time in the cardiac part of the stomach. In horses, pigs, and rats, 
the same is true, but in these animals the cardiac glands do 
not secrete acid. The action of ptyalin is stopped by the 
hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, and the juice begins to 
be secreted even before food is taken into the stomach. It 
does not, however, permeate the mass of food lying at the 
cardiac end for half an hour or more, only attacking the outer 
portions which, as they become semi-fluid, are squeezed on into 
the pyloric part of the organ. 

The gastric juice is a clear fluid containing water, salts, 
ferments, and *2--4 per cent of hydrochloric acid. Probably 
the acid is combined loosely with protein, for it does not behave 
to reagents as a pure solution of the same strength. The 
presence of acid is necessary to enable the ferment pepsin to 



80 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

hydrolyze protein to acid albumin, albumoses and peptone ; 
and the combination of hydrochloric acid with protein is still 
able to exert this favourable influence upon peptic action. 

The secretion of gastric juice takes place in two phases. 
In the first place the thought of food, the introduction of food 
into the mouth, and the chewing of food all call forth a flow 
of juice in a hungry individual, known as the appetite juice. 
In a dog with an oesophageal fistula, through which the food 
swallowed drops out, large quantities of juice may be collected 
from a fistula in the stomach when the animal is allowed to 
chew meat. Thorough mastication has also been shown to 
increase the amount of juice in man. The great importance of 
appetite has always been recognized and is well illustrated 
by Pawlow's observation that if a dog has been fasting, the 
sight of any food will produce gastric juice, whereas if it has 
been recently fed, and its appetite abated, there is only a flow 
if food be shown to which it is specially partial. The obser- 
vations made many years ago by Beaumont upon Alexis St. 
Martin anticipated much of the work which has since been done. 
More recently, experiments on man have confirmed many of 
the results obtained by Pawlow on dogs. If food be introduced 
into the stomach of a dog without its knowledge, no juice flows 
for a considerable time. For example, a piece of meat was 
placed in the stomach of a dog through a gastric fistula, and 
6 grammes of it were dissolved in an hour and a half. When, 
however, the appetite was excited by sham feeding, the food 
given passing out through an oesophageal fistula, 30 grammes, 
or six times as much, of the meat placed in the stomach was 
dissolved in an equal time. Schule has found that patients to 
whom food was given without their knowledge through a sound, 
after washing out the stomach, digested but little of it. By 
a similar procedure Lang found that some secretion was pro- 
duced by meat, but none by carbohydrate. The flow of appetite 
juice is excited reflexly through the vagus nerve ; it is important 
to note that any pain or discomfort inhibits the secretion. 

The second phase of the secretion of gastric juice is called 
forth in the stomach itself (Edkins), and is probably independent 
of all nervous connexions. The products of digestion appar- 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 81 

ently cause the formation of some substance in the mucous 
membrane which is carried by the blood to the glands and 
stimulates them to secrete. This method of exciting secretion 
has been called a chemical reflex, and the substance producing 
it is known as a hormone (Bayliss and Starling), from opuau, 
arouse or excite. The bodies which most easily cause this 
second flow of juice are the products of protein digestion, and 
it follows that the appetite juice is necessary to start digestion 
in order that they may be formed. Similar bodies are, however, 
contained in meat broth, and this has been shown to stimulate 
the second flow of juice in man and in dogs. When the appe- 
tite juice is wanting, broth or soup may, therefore, act in some 
degree as a substitute. 

The total amount of gastric juice produced is proportional 
to the amount of food, but the rate of flow varies with the nature 
of the food ; a dry food, such as bread, exciting more flow in the 
first hour, whereas with meat and with milk the maximum 
is reached later. 

The mass of food lying in the fundus of the stomach is gradu- 
ally dissolved by the gastric juice. The muscular wall of the 
cardiac end is at this time in a state of tonic contraction ; as 
the solid material becomes fluid it is squeezed by this pressure 
into the pyloric end. The division between the cardiac and 
pyloric parts is known as the pyloric antrum, and is easily dis- 
tinguishable during life, though not in dissecting room specimens ; 
it may often be seen in the post-mortem room ; indeed, the pyloric 
part is sometimes so contracted as to be similar in appearance to 
the duodenum. About half an hour after the food has passed 
into the stomach waves of constriction begin at the antrum and 
pass towards the pylorus. Each wave takes about half a minute 
in its passage, and as a wave starts about every ten seconds two or 
three can be seen in the pyloric part of the stomach at once. 
These energetic contractions of the pyloric end can exert a con- 
siderable pressure and have the effect of moving about and rubbing 
down the food. When the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice 
has combined with all the protein present the further secretion 
of juice results in the presence of free acid, and this acid appears 
to stimulate the muscular walls to yet more active contractions. 

6 



82 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

These movements of the stomach have been observed in the 
exposed organ, in normal animals and man, and by means of 
the X-rays, food mixed with nitrate or carbonate of bismuth 
having been previously given. They have also been seen in the 
excised organ and are therefore independent of its nervous 
connexions. Nevertheless, the muscular walls of the stomach 
are influenced by nerves, for stimulation of the vagus has been 
shown to increase the movements ; and in animals in which these 
nerves have been divided the passage of food out of the stomach 
is much delayed. As the stomach contracts the body of the 
organ is lifted up towards the fixed cardiac orifice, so that the 
pylorus is the lowest point, and when it opens the chyme will 
pass out of it by gravity. Link found in a number of obser- 
vations on man that the food was discharged more rapidly if 
the patient lay on the right side. 

The rate at which food leaves the stomach varies according 
to its nature. Cannon found with the X-rays that carbo-hydrate 
foods, such as potatoes, begin to pass through the pyloric ori- 
fice without much delay. Proteins, except egg white, do not 
leave at all in the first half hour, and pass out more slowly. 
Fats begin to leave before proteins, but take a still longer time 
to be completely discharged. The explanation of these facts 
is of considerable interest. It appears that the pylorus begins 
to open as soon as a certain proportion of free acid is present. 
Carbo-hydrate food has no neutralizing effect upon the gastric 
juice and consequently the degree of acidity required to bring 
about relaxation of the pylorus is soon attained. Proteins, on 
the contrary, combine with hydrochloric acid and the acid first 
poured out must satisfy the affinity of the protein before any 
can be free in the stomach and stimulate the pyloric mucous 
membrane. It must be remembered that the proteolytic activity 
of pepsin can go on without free acid provided that the combina- 
tion of acid with protein be present. If this explanation be the 
true one we should expect that the discharge of food from the 
stomach would be delayed by the addition of alkali and hastened 
by acid, and this was found by Cannon to be the case. 

When a sufficient degree of acidity has been reached the 
pylorus opens and allows a small portion of the chyme to pass 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 83 

into the duodenum. The presence of acid in the duodenum 
causes a closure of the pylorus (Hirsch and Serdjukow) so that 
each portion of acid chyme which is squirted into the duodenum 
will, until it has been neutralized by the alkali of the bile and 
pancreatic juice, inhibit the passage of any more. The interval 
between the discharges is longer with protein than with carbo- 
hydrate, because not only has the free acid to be neutralized but 
also that in combination. As soon as the chyme is rendered 
neutral the inhibition is suspended, the pylorus again opens in 
response to the stimulus still acting in the stomach and a new 
consignment of chyme is forwarded. While this is going on 
the food remaining in the cardiac end of the stomach is being 
gradually dissolved in its turn and passed on to be churned in 
the pyloric end. The amount of acid juice does not increase 
indefinitely, for hydrochloric acid in sufficient quantity inhibits 
the secretion of more. 

Fat leaves the stomach very slowly ; its presence in the 
duodenum has, like acid, the effect of causing the pylorus to 
close. Consequently fat does not accumulate in the small 
intestine, but is dealt with by the bile and the pancreatic 
juice in small quantities at a time. 

Water does not appear to be absorbed in the stomach but 
is passed on quickly into the duodenum. 

In the small intestine the chyme is mixed with the pan- 
creatic juice, the bile, and the intestinal juice, which are poured 
out into the lumen of the gut just at the time that the material 
upon which they are to act arrives. This is brought about by 
a most interesting mechanism for the discovery of which we 
are indebted to Bayliss and Starling. The acid of the chyme 
as it passes into the duodenum acts upon a substance in the 
mucous membrane known as prosecretin, with the result that 
a body, named secretin, is formed and carried by the blood 
vessels to the pancreas which is thereby stimulated to produce 
its digestive juice. At the same time, and by the same means, 
a flow of bile and of the intestinal juice of the upper part of 
the small intestine is also excited. All these secretions are there- 
fore stimulated by the hormone secretin, the mechanism 
being chemical and not nervous ; for in the case of the pancreas 



84 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

it has been shown that the secretion is independent of any 
nervous connexions ; all that is necessary is that acid shall be 
introduced into the duodenum and that the blood vessels shall 
be intact. 

The pancreatic juice is a clear, strongly alkaline albuminous 
fluid, containing ferments. These are, however, only brought 
to their full activity by mixture with the succus entericus 
and bile, and this is especially the case with the proteolytic 
ferment. Pancreatic juice has very little action on protein, but 
is converted into a powerful agent by the addition of a small 
quantity of intestinal juice. This is due to a ferment in the 
succus entericus, known as enterokinase, which has the property 
of activating the trypsinogen of the pancreatic juice to form 
trypsin. Trypsin has, in an alkaline medium, a strong pro- 
teolytic action, forming first alkali-albumin, then albumoses, 
peptone, and aminoacids. Pancreatic juice also contains an 
amylase, called amylopsin, and the fat splitting ferment steapsin. 
The alkalinity of the juice is proportional to the acidity of the 
chyme which it neutralizes. Pawlow has brought forward 
evidence that the amount of each ferment in the pancreatic 
juice varies with the nature of the food, but these results have 
not yet been fully confirmed by other workers. 

The albumoses and peptones of the chyme are broken down 
by trypsin, to a large number of bodies belonging to the class 
of aminoacids. The action is a far reaching one and is a process 
of hydrolysis, although the products show some differences from 
those of hydrolysis by acid. It is found experimentally that 
the digestion of protein by pancreatic juice is most complete 
when, as is the case in the body, the protein has been first sub- 
jected to the action of the gastric juice. The following (from 
Aders Plimmer) are some of the chief substances formed : 

Monoaminocarboxylic acids : 
Glycine 
Alanine 
Leucine 
Phenylalanine 

Serine ) 

. loxy-aminoacids 
Tyrosme j 

I ortho-aminoacids 
Cysteine j 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 85 

Monoamino-dicarboxylic acids : 

Aspartic acid 

Glutamic acid 
Diaminomonocarboxylic acids (hexone bases) : 

Orni thine 

Lysine 

Arginine 

Histidine 
Heterocyclic compounds : 

Proline 

Oxyproline 

Tryptophane 



These bodies are the fractions of which protein is made. 
We shall see later that the proteins of the body have a charac- 
teristic structure which is by no means the same as that of 
those in the food. In the process of digestion the complex 
molecules of the food proteins having been broken down into 
simpler ones, these are picked out in certain proportions to 
build up the tissues of the body, in the same way as the stones' 
which have served for one house may be used again to con- 
struct a new building of a different architecture. 

The amylolytic ferment of the pancreatic juice has a similar 
action upon starches to that of ptyalin, the chief product being 
maltose with a little dextrose. Its activity is doubled, accord- 
ing to Pawlow, by the presence of bile. In young animals a 
lactase is also present which converts lactose to dextrose and 
galactose. 

The lipase, or fat splitting ferment, converts fats into fattjr 
acids and glycerine : bile increases its action threefold. 

Both pancreatic and gastric juice contain ferments which 
throw caseinogen out of solution, the rennin ferments. It* 
is probable that their action is not identical in the two cases. 
These ferments are closely connected with pepsin and with 
trypsin. They do not exist for the sole purpose of clotting 
milk, for they are present in animals which take none, for in- 
stance, in fishes. Some observers have put forward the view 
that they play a part in the synthesis of protein, but this is 
by no means proved. 

Glaessner, in a case of pancreatic fistula, has investigated 
the properties of the juice in man and was able to confirm the 



86 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

facts which had been established by experiment upon animals. 
Five to eight hundred cubic centimetres of juice were secreted 
daily by his patient. 

The bile contains water, mucin, the bile salts sodium 
taurocholate and glycocholate the bile pigments, cholesterin, 
lecithin, and inorganic salts. The assistance given by the 
bile in the digestion of fat is due to the tauro- and glycocholate 
of soda, which have the property of lessening the surface tension 
between the fats and the intestinal fluids and by this means 
aiding emulsification. and enabling the lipase to come into 
closer relationship with the fat. The bile salts, by dissolving the 
fatty acids or soaps produced, also aid their absorption. The 
function of the cholesterin is not understood. It has been 
regarded as an excretory product of nervous tissue, but J. A. 
Gardner has recently shown that if there be no cholesterin 
in the food there is none in the faeces, although it is still con- 
tained in the bile ; it has long been held that the bile salts 
are absorbed from the intestine and re-secreted in the bile 
to help again in the digestion of fat, and it appears probable 
from these researches that cholesterin is also re-absorbed. 
Lecithin has been found by Parker and Moore to aid the 
solution of soaps by bile salts. The pigments of the bile are 
true excretory products derived from the haemoglobin of the 
blood. 

The succus entericus is an alkaline fluid containing small 

quantities of protein, mucin, leucocytes and epithelial cells, 

and at least three ferments. We have already referred to one 

of these, enterokinase. Another ferment called erepsin (Cohn- 

heim) breaks down albumoses and peptones to the various 

aminoacids enumerated above, and its presence in the small 

intestine ensures that any protein not fully disintegrated by 

pepsin and by trypsin shall not escape. Erepsin is also able 

to attack fibrin and caseinogen. An invertin ferment or 

invertase is also present which inverts cane sugar to dextrose 

and levulose ; a maltase which converts maltose into dextrose ; 

and, in young animals, a lactase. The carbo-hydrates are by 

these means entirely hydrolyzed to dextrose, levulose or gal- 

actose. It is not, however, certain that this takes place 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 87 

entirely in the lumen of the gut, for it is probable that the 
ferments, to some extent at least, produce their effect within 
the mucous membrane. 

The digestion and absorption of the food is materially aided 
by the movements of the small intestine. It has been shown 
by direct observation and by the X-rays that during digestion 
the gut is continually kept in motion by the passage along its 
muscular walls of circular constrictions which have the effect 
of dividing up the contents into small lengths without moving 
them onwards. These short sausage shaped pieces are then 
further divided into two, each of which joins with a similar 
piece lying above or below it. The movements are repeated 
again and again with the result that the food materials and 
the digestive juices are thoroughly mixed, and every part of 
the whole is brought into intimate relation with the absorbing 
wall of the gut. At intervals a different kind of movement 
is seen, the peristaltic wave, which, by a prolonged constriction 
of a part of the intestine with a relaxation of the region lying 
immediately below it, propels the contents along the tube. 



ABSORPTION 

We have now traced the food materials through the upper 
part of the small intestine. However various in appearance 
and in composition the ingredients of the diet may have been, 
they are now, in a healthy person, reduced to a uniform semi- 
fluid consistence, and their proteins, fats, and carbo-hydrates 
have suffered chemical change under the influence of the 
digestive juices and are, in large part if not entirely, converted 
into a number of simpler chemical bodies, suitable for absorp- 
tion by the epithelium of the villi. This process of absorption 
is most active in the ileum, although it takes place to some 
extent along the whole of the small and large intestine. 

The means by which the epithelial cells of the gut are able 
to take up food substances and transfer them to the lymph 
and blood are imperfectly understood, and the experimental 
study of the problem is hedged about by difficulties. In 



88 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the first place it is clear that absorption is selective, some 
substances being taken up much more readily than others. 

In the case of inorganic salts this may perhaps be explained to 
a considerable extent on physical grounds, for those salts which, 
when dissociated, liberate slowly moving ions, are slowly absorbed. 
This is the case with magnesium sulphate and is one explana- 
tion of its action as a purgative, the Mg and S0 4 ions thus re- 
maining in the intestine and attracting fluid by their osmotic 
tension until the gut is distended, and stimulated to pass 
the whole on. Solutions of salts in the intestine do, in great 
measure, follow the laws of osmosis through semi-permeable 
membranes, a hypertonic solution attracting water from the 
blood and lymph and a hypotonic losing water, with the result 
that the saline solution in the gut becomes isotonic with the 
blood and lymph ; it is then gradually absorbed, presumably 
because the partial pressure of that particular salt is less 
in these fluids than in the solution, and because the epithelium 
is more permeable to that salt in the direction from the 
lumen to the blood. Osmosis through a semi-permeable 
membrane will not, however, fully explain the absorption, 
for salts which have similar physical properties, such as rapidity 
of movement of their ions, are not taken up at equal rates. The 
facts that an animal can take up water and salts from its own 
serum, and that the excised gut when placed in the defibrinated 
blood of the same animal will take up fluid into its mucous 
membrane, also indicate that even in the case of inorganic salts, 
and probably of water, the epithelium has some direct selective 
activity, and that there is a general tendency for water and 
some salts to pass inwards. This does not imply that 
physical factors are not of great value. Nature uses all 
the means at her disposal. No one doubts that when water 
is taken into the intestine of a thirsty person the raised osmotic 
tension of the water-poor fluids of the body accelerates 
its absorption. Nevertheless the facts at present available as 
to the absorption of salts are not fully explained by physical 
conditions, and it is as well to speak plainly of a selective absorp- 
tion as to shelter the same idea behind the phrase of a membrane 
possessing special permeabilities. 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 89 

The absorption of the food-stuffs is a different matter, for 
it is probable that each of them is altered in its passage through 
the epithelium. 

In the case of the proteins the former hypothesis that they 
are taken up in the form of albumoses and peptone is giving place 
to the view that the object of digestion is to break them down 
still further to the aminoacids which we have enumerated above, 
and that these bodies are absorbed, and either oxidized to fur- 
nish energy or rebuilt into fresh protein. It is still possible on 
this view that some protein is taken into the epithelial cells 
as albumose or peptone, for the ferment erepsin which is believed 
to complete the disintegration into aminoacids probably acts 
in the mucous membrane as well as in the lumen of the gut. 
It is important to note that protein loses but little potential 
energy in the course of its transformation into these amino-bodies. 

If the assumption that proteins are absorbed in this form 
be correct, it should be possible to maintain nitrogenous 
equilibrium upon a mixture of the aminoacids ; this has 
been shown to be the case. The nitrogenous needs of dogs 
and rats have been satisfied for considerable periods by the 
material obtained by the digestion of casein in vitro until no 
albumoses or peptones remained. In such a diet it is neces- 
sary that all the essential fractions required to build up the 
body protein shall be present. A diet of gelatine, for 
instance, cannot play the part of protein because, although 
gelatine yields many aminoacids on hydrolysis, it cannot 
furnish tyrosine, or tryptophane, or cystine, ail of which 
are needed to form the higher proteins ; if, however, those 
bodies be added there is evidence that gelatin can replace true 
protein in the diet. Zein, again, a protein obtained from 
maize, has been shown by Willcock and Hopkins to be more 
efficient as a food if tryptophane, which is missing from its 
decomposition products, be added to it. 

If we conclude that the epithelial cells take up aminoacids 
from the gut, we have still to inquire whether these bodies are 
passed into the blood in this form. A portion of the amino- 
bodies at least must be built up somewhere into the body 
protein. Some authorities, for instance Abderhalden, have 



90 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

expressed the view that this is done in the wall of the intestine. 
Leathes has, however, brought forward evidence to show that 
there is a definite though small increase in the non-protein 
nitrogenous bodies in blood flowing from the absorbing intestine, 
and v. Bergmann has found amino-bodies in such blood. If 
the amino-bodies pass into the portal blood we should 
suspect that their elaboration might take place in the liver ; 
this is supported by the fact that if the portal blood be led 
into the vena cava without going through the liver (Eck's 
fistula) symptoms of poisoning occur when the animal is fed 
upon meat, indicating that the liver plays an essential part 
in the assimilation of such food. It is also possible that 
some, or a great part, of the aminoacids may be taken, as 
such, directly to the various body cells. It is interesting to 
note that in plants nitrogen is absorbed into the sap in the form 
of aminoacids, formed by the breaking down of the seed proteins. 

Nitrogenous material is taken up entirely by the blood 
and not by the lymph, for even on a rich protein diet the 
amount of nitrogen in the chyle is not materially raised. 

Carbohydrates are absorbed entirely in the form of the mono- 
saccharides and, on an ordinary diet, chiefly as dextrose, with 
small quantities of levulose, and as galactose. The conversion 
of maltose to dextrose is probably completed in the intestinal 
wall. The sugar is taken up by the blood, for it does not appear 
in the lymph of the thoracic duct. The passage of dextrose 
from the cell is, no doubt, aided by osmosis, for there will be 
a fall of pressure from the bowel to the blood. The portal 
blood carries the sugar to the liver where it is stored as 
glycogen. 

We have seen that the fats are prepared for absorption by 
being emulsified in the mixture of juices in the small intestine, 
with the help of the bile ; they are then more easily attacked 
by the fat splitting ferment of the pancreatic juice. The pro- 
cedure is probably as follows. The ferment splits about five 
per cent of the emulsified fat into fatty acid and glycerine. In 
the presence of the alkaline juices the fatty acid combines 
with the base present, for example, sodium, and forms a soap ; 
both soap and fatty acid are dissolved by the bile salts and 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 91 

are therefore presented to the epithelial cells in solution and 
taken up by them. In the usual case the contents of the gut 
are alkaline and the fat will be absorbed as soap ; when the 
reaction is acid, as it is sometimes, the absorption will take 
place of the fatty acid. The removal of the fatty acid or soap 
will leave the steapsin free to split another five per cent of the 
fat in the intestine and this will go on until all is converted and 
absorbed. 

The absorbed fatty radicle, whether acid or soap, is re-united 
with glycerine somewhere in the wall of the gut to form again a 
neutral fat (Munk). This is probably effected by a reversible 
ferment action working in the opposite direction to the lipase in 
the pancreatic juice, though no ferment could be separated by 
B. Moore from an extract of the mucous membrane. The same 
observer has shown that after a fatty meal the mucous mem- 
brane of the intestine contains 15 to 35 per cent of its fat in 
the form of fatty acid, whilst in the lymphatics of the mesentery 
only 5 per cent is in that form, the remaining 95 per cent being 
neutral fat which has, therefore, been re-synthesized before leaving 
the wall of the bowel. No loss of energy is involved in the 
transformation either way between fat and fatty acid. The 
microscopical appearances of the epithelial cells when stained 
with osmic acid do not enable us to distinguish between fatty 
acid and fat, as both of these take the stain. 

Fat is absorbed by the lymphatics and passed into the thoracic 
duct, and thence into the subclavian vein, reaching, therefore, 
the general circulation without having been through the liver. 
About 60 per cent of that absorbed can be recovered from the 
duct ; the fate of the remainder is not clear, but as the blood 
of the portal vein has not been found, during digestion, to contain 
more fat than that of the systemic arteries it is supposed that it 
is not taken up into the blood. 

Water is absorbed along the whole length of the small intestine, 
but probably not in much greater quantity than is poured out 
in the intestinal juices, for the contents of the ileum remain in a 
semi-fluid condition until the caecum is reached. It is in the 
colon that the absorption of water chiefly takes place. If the food 
be mixed with bismuth the first part of it can be observed to arrive 



92 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

at the caecum four or five hours after the meal. As it passes out 
of the ileum it fills up the ascending colon, and this excites waves 
of contraction which pass backward from the transverse colon 
to the caecum and keep the semi-fluid mass from moving along : 
this delay in the colon enables water to be taken up, as well 
as the residue of food-stuffs. 

As the faeces become drier and fill up the transverse colon, 
true peristaltic waves are from time to time excited which 
pass the distal portions of the mass into the descending colon 
and sigmoid flexure, whence they are periodically discharged 
in defsecation. Hertz found that food mixed with bismuth 
reached the hepatic flexure in 6J hours, the middle of the transverse 
colon in 8, and the splenic flexure in 9 hours after the meal. This 
refers to the daytime. During sleep the movements of the 
intestine are more sluggish. 

THE DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD-STUFFS 

The unabsorbed parts of the food are discharged from the 
body in the faeces, which do not, however, consist solely of such 
matter but also contain products derived from the intestine. 
The undigested residue consists of the remains of tendon, 
ligament, elastic fibre, blood vessels, muscle fibre and other 
cells of animal food ; of fat, cholesterin, and the cleavage 
products of protein ; of vegetable fibre (cellulose), starch granules, 
and derivatives of chlorophyll ; of calcium and magnesium 
salts of fatty acids, and magnesio-ammonium phosphate. The 
metabolic products in the faeces, derived from the intestines, 
are epithelial cells, mucus, and the residue of the digestive 
juices. 

We may find out how much of any given food is absorbed by 
a study of the composition of the dejecta, because any portion 
of it not taken up by the gut will be found in them. It is clear 
that this method of determining the absorbability or digesti- 
bility of foods is not quite accurate unless we can recognize how 
much of the faeces is composed of the metabolic products, and 
this cannot at present be done. Nevertheless the results are 
sufficiently near to be of great value : no carbo-hydrate is excreted 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 



93 



from the intestine and therefore all the vegetable fibre in the 
faeces is derived from the food : the amount of nitrogen passed 
out as metabolic products, such as digestive juices and epithelial 
cells, is small and can be allowed for ; and the same applies to 
the non-fatty ethereal extractives of the faeces, which add to 
the apparent amount of fat. It is of obvious importance in the 
study of dietetics to know how much of the food ingested is 
actually taken up and made available for the needs of the- body. 
The following table (from Atwater) summarizes the' results ob- 
tained from a number of ordinary foods. These figures are 
obtained by experiments in which a healthy individual \fas fed 
upon one food-stuff only, with condiments, usually for at least 
three days. Allowance is made for the metabolic products and 
the figures ^e therefore higher than those of many published 
tables. 



Animal Foods. 


Percentages Digested. 


Vegetable Foods. 


Percentages Digested. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo - 
hydrate 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate 




P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 




P. ct. 






Beef and Veal . 


100 


95 





Wheat flour, 








Mutton 


100 


95 





fine 


85 


. 




Pork . . . 


100 


95 





Wheat flour, 




=3 


^ 


Fish and Oy- 








medium 


81 


.2 





sters . 


100 


95 





Wheat flour, 




"S 


*5 


Milk . . . 


100 


96 


100 


coarse . 


75 


1 





Cheese 


100 


95 


100 


Rice . 


85 




5 


Butter . . 


96 




Macaroni . 


So 


i 


i 


Oleomargarine 95 





Rye flour. 


78 


4) 


c 


Tallow . . . 


95 





Maize meal . 


85 





S 


Lard . . . 


95 





Potatoes . 


75 


$ 


fc 


Oils . . . 


95 





Cabbages, tur- 




& 


1 7 


Eggs ... 100 


98 





nips, etc . 


80 


00 


5 










Beans 


85 














Peas . 


85 







Magnus Levy found that on the average 8 per cent of the 
total dry substance of milk was lost, 7 per cent of meat, and 5 per 
cent of bread. On pure vegetable foods the loss was 10 percent. 

These figures show that the protein and fat of animal foods 
are much more completely absorbed than those of vegetal 
with which there is a loss in the faeces of 1 5 to 25 per cent of the 



94 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

protein. In calculating the value of a vegetable diet allowance 
should be made for this, and more than the apparent needs sup- 
plied. The reason for the loss is that the nitrogenous matter of 
vegetables is mixed with masses of cellulose and starch which 
render it difficult for the digestive juices to reach the protein and 
dissolve it. Observations on the digestibility of foods in vege- 
tarians have shown that the waste does not diminish in those who 
have been accustomed to such a diet for years. Hence on a 
purely vegetarian diet, to quote Chittenden, " an excess of work is 
thrown upon the alimentary organs which not only causes discom- 
fort but is a physiological loss, entailing the working over by the 
system of large quantities of material in order that the required 
amount of protein matter may be obtained." This does not mean 
that it is desirable to take our carbo-hydrates entirely in the more 
absorbable forms of fine meal or sugar, for a moderate admix- 
ture of vegetables with other food is an advantage on account 
of the stimulus to the alimentary movements which their bulk 
and fibrous nature afford. Of the animal foods, those meats 
which have short and delicate fibres are the most digestible, such 
as the breast of young chickens : strong and tough fibres resist 
disintegration. Again, muscle fibres which are intimately mixed 
with fat, as are those of the eel and lobster, are not so easily 
attacked by the digestive juices. 

Similar considerations apply to vegetable foods : thus Rubner 
found that the digestibility of starch depends upon the ease with 
which the juices can reach it ; with fine meal the loss of carbo- 
hydrate was only Tl per cent, with coarse meal 2' 6 per cent, 
with whole corn 7' 4 per cent, and in carrots 18 per cent. Such 
high figures as this last do not occur when other foods are taken 
as well. 

Indeed, results obtained by studying the digestibility of one 
food at a time, valuable as they are, do not necessarily apply 
to a mixture of foods, and we must now look at the results which 
have been obtained on various dietaries. 

Atwater found the absorption of an ordinary mixed diet, in 
a large number of observations, to be as follows : 

Protein, 90-93 per cent, Fat, 95-96 per cent, Carbo-hy- 
drate, 97-98 per cent, Calories used, 90-93 per cent. 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 95 

The digestibility is equally good with large amounts of food. 
In a patient in bed undergoing special feeding upon an enormous 
and varied diet Hale White and the writer found the utilization 
of protein and of fat to be 96 per cent. 

Muscular work does not diminish the digestibility of foods, 
for in training Atwater and Sherman found the following absorp- 
tion figures : 

Protein, 93 per cent, Fat, 93 per cent, Carbo-hydrate, 
99 per cent. 

On a fruitarian diet the digestibility is lower, as we should 

expect from the studies on individual foods. Jaffa found that 

the average of 30 digestion experiments on fruitarians gave : 

Protein, 75 per cent, Fat, 86 per cent, Sugar, starch, 

etc., 95 per cent, Fibre, 79 per cent, Calories, 86 per cent. 

These figures are not markedly different in childhood, for a 
child of seven years, feeding on apples, bananas, oranges, dates, 
honey, olive oil, almonds, pignolias, and walnuts, digested the 
following proportions : 

Protein, 82*5 per cent, Fat, 87 per cent, Sugar, starch, 
etc., 96 per cent, Fibre, 80 per cent, Calories, 87 per cent. 

The results of digestion experiments as a whole may be sum- 
marized in the following words (after Atwater). Animal protein 
is readily and completely^ digested, that of vegetables less com- 
pletely. Of potatoes and beans, for instance, one third may 
escape digestion and thus be useless as nourishment. Fats are on 
the whole well digested. The carbo-hydrates in general are 
digestible except the crude fibre or cellulose, but the amount 
of this in an ordinary diet is small. 

The digestive powers of different individuals differ less than 
is commonly supposed. We are here referring to the utilization 
of the food and not to the length of time which it remains in the 
stomach or the symptoms it may excite there, for the relative 
ease of digestion and the time it takes vary in different individuals 
to a considerable degree. Flavouring materials appear to have 
but little effect upon the utilization of the food. 



96 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

NUTRITION 

We must now consider briefly the fate of the food-stuffs 
after absorption and the way in which they serve to nourish the 
body. When we attempt to trace the course and the transforma- 
tions of these materials from the time that they disappear from 
the intestine to the final reappearance of their elements as urea 
and water in the urine, and carbon dioxide and water in the expired 
air, we find ourselves plunged at once into the most difficult 
problems of physiology, a full discussion of which, however 
interesting to the student of dietetics, would not in the present 
state of our knowledge,or rather our ignorance, yield any practical 
information bearing upon dietetics. We shall therefore confine 
ourselves to a brief summary of the modern view as to the 
processes by means of which foods are oxidized to furnish 
energy, or built up into tissues. 

When a meal of protein is taken the major part of the nitrogen 
which it contains is excreted in the urine in a short time ; if pro- 
tein be introduced directly into the intestines of an animal the 
same is true ; as much as 40-50 per cent of the nitrogen may 
appear in the urine within a couple of hours. These facts, which 
were formerly supposed to show that the tissues preferred pro- 
tein food and therefore used it up at once, are now regarded as 
evidence that the nitrogenous part only of the protein molecule 
is thus rapidly passed out, and that the rest of the molecule is 
kept in the body for immediate or future use (Folin) ; it is not 
oxidized simultaneously with the excretion of the nitrogen, for 
the heat given off is not greater after a meal of protein. Since 
protein foods are absorbed in the form of aminoacids we must 
suppose that the nitrogen is split from these bodies as ammonia. 
It is not known for certain where this splitting takes place but it is 
probable that it is within the intestinal wall. Nencki has shown 
that there may be four times as much ammonia in the portal 
blood during digestion as in the systemic circulation, and this 
ammonia may be that split off from the aminoacids on its way 
to the liver to be converted into urea and passed out in that form 
in the urine. The denitrified remainder of the aminoacid would 
still possess a considerable caloric value. A gramme molecule of 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 



97 



leucin, for instance, furnishes on combustion 130 calories ; and 
the oxyacid which may be supposed to be formed by the 
denitrification of leucin gives 110 calories. The denitrification 
of glycocoll, again, would only involve a loss of about 15 per 
cent of its heat value. The steps in the oxidation of the denitri- 
fied oxyacids are not understood but it is theoretically possible 
that sugar may be elaborated from them. This would explain 
the formation of the large quantities of sugar that are believed 
to be derived from protein, for although the carbo-hydrate 
derivatives, such as glucosamine, obtained from protein by com- 
paratively simple methods, may give rise to some sugar, the 
total quantity of these glycoproteins is small and is inadequate 
to furnish the amount which may under special circumstances, 
in diabetes, for example, be formed from protein. It is also 
theoretically conceivable that fat may be synthesized from 
these oxyacids. 

The above considerations only deal with that proportion of 
the nitrogenous food which is not required for building up protein 
tissues, for which purpose there must be a synthesis of protein 
from the aminoacids absorbed. Many facts speak in favour of 
such a synthesis, though it is not known whether it takes place 
in the intestinal wall, in the liver, or elsewhere. The proteins 
we eat are different in composition from those of our own 
tissues ; they do not on hydrolysis yield the same proportions 
of the various aminoacids. The following table (adapted from- 
Aders Plimmer) shows what great differences exist between 



Proteins. 




Arginine. 


Glutamie 
Acid. 


Lysine. 


Histidine 


Tyros ine. 


Cyst ine. 


Caseinogen. 
Egg albumin . 
Serum albumin 


4-8 


11-0 

8'0 


5-8 


2-6 


4-5 
11 
2-0 


o-i 

0-2 
2-1 


Gelatine . . . . 7'6 


0-9 


2-7 


0-4 








Zein (from maize) . 


1-8 








0-8 









various proteins. It is reasonable, therefore, to suppose that 
the body may select in certain proportions the aminoacids pre- 

7 



98 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

sented to it in order to build up any particular tissue. We 

have already referred to the experiments of Kaufmann and of 

Willcock and Hopkins upon diets of gelatine and zein, which 

show that particular aminoacids are needed in the diet. It 

appears that, whatever is supplied, the body makes its proteins 

of a particular type. Abderhalden bled a horse severely so 

that a considerable quantity of the serum protein was lost. 

The animal was then fed upon gliadine, which contains four times 

as much glutamic acid as the serum protein ; but in spite of 

the absorption of gliadine the composition of the serum 

protein remained the same. Again, when the vegetable protein, 

zein, is given as food it cannot be recognized in the tissues and is 

therefore completely broken down, its constituents, or part of 

them, being built up into other proteins. Hence it is always 

desirable to supply protein in the diet in excess of the actual 

requirements, in order that there may be plenty of choice ; and 

especially when the protein of the food is derived from vegetables, 

for if the aminoacids resulting from the hydrolysis of the protein 

of the food are not present in the same proportions as are needed 

to build up tissues, and this is likely to be the case with vegetable 

proteins, it is clear that in the selection of the suitable groups 

many will be rejected and can only serve for oxidation 

purposes. 

A diet may therefore be deficient in the quality of its protein 
constituents whilst sufficient in their quantity. In mothers' 
milk it is probable that the necessary ingredients are present in 
exactly the right proportions, in which case the digestive breaking 
down and the subsequent building up may be supposed to go on 
with a minimal waste. Abderhalden suggests that in such a dis- 
ease as rickets it is possible that there is a deficiency of a quali- 
tative nature and that the cells of the growing tissues suffer be- 
cause they are not supplied with a particular material. Some 
substances are especially necessary to healthy existence. Adrena- 
lin, for instance, is essential ; it is derived from an aromatic 
precursor, and Hopkins points out that " it is probable that the 
suprarenal gland requires a constant supply of some one of the 
aromatic groups of the protein molecule to serve as an indispens- 
able basis for the elaboration of adrenalin." In starvation such 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 99 

a precursor would have to be obtained by tissue breakdown 
outside the gland. 

It appears then that the cells of the body are offered protein of 
a constant form, that of the serum albumin and serum globulin 
of the blood and lymph. It is possible, and even probable, that 
a second process of digestion now takes place and that the cell 
breaks down their material and rebuilds it into its own tissue. 
It is also possible that some aminoacids are conveyed by the blood 
directly to the cells, and that the cells select what they require. 

Lastly, we must inquire by what means the constant disin- 
tegration of living tissue is carried out. If an organ taken from 
the body be kept under aseptic conditions it undergoes a chemical 
dissolution known as autolysis, and the products found are 
similar to those obtained by the hydrolysis of protein in other ways. 
This liquefaction is attributed to ferment action. It is probable 
that the removal of inflammatory products, such as the exuda- 
tion into the pulmonary alveoli in pneumonia, takes place by this 
means. But even in the healthy body portions of cells are always 
dying and there is a good deal of evidence to show that this normal 
disintegration of tissue is also due to enzymes and is analogous to 
or even identical with the autolytic action observed after death. 
The blood serum appears to contain an anti-ferment inhibiting 
this action, and may be supposed to prevent a too general 
autolysis. On such a view the anabolism and the katabolism 
of the tissues is the result of antagonistic ferment actions the 
balancing of which results in perfect health. 

The aminoacids formed by the breaking down of cells are 
carried to the liver, where their nitrogen is converted into urea 
and excreted, probably in just the same way as the surplus nitro- 
gen from the food is got rid of immediately after its absorption. 
A proportion of the nitrogen of the urine, however, is not in the 
form of urea but of uric acid and other purin bodies, and of 
ammonia and creatinine. These nitrogenous substances, especi- 
ally the creatinine and uric acid, result from ceil metabolism 
or the metabolism of structure, and, with part of the urea, repre- 
sent the " endogenous " metabolism of nitrogen. The remainder 
of the urea is regarded as derived from the nitrogen of the protein 
which is rapidly excreted, and may be called exogenous. 



100 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The special metabolism of purin bodies will be reviewed 
in another part of this volume. 

The creatinine in the urine has generally been regarded as 
mainly derived from muscle, and although some doubt has been 
thrown upon this, the writer has brought forward pathological 
evidence supporting the original view, having confirmed the 
observation, made long ago, that in muscular atrophies the 
excretion of creatinine is greatly diminished. 

The fat absorbed in the intestine and passed into the thoracic 
duct is carried into the general circulation, and, if not at once 
needed for oxidation, is deposited in connective tissue cells in the 
fat depots of the body, especially in the subcutaneous tissue, in 
the omentum and around the kidneys. The fat stored in this 
way is of the same kind as that in the food. This has been 
shown by feeding animals upon special forms of fat, which have 
then been recognized in the tissues either by their melting points 
or by their powers of combining with iodine, which differ in 
different fats. Hence fat is deposited without undergoing any 
fundamental assimilative change. This is the direct opposite 
to what we have seen occurs with protein. The two cases 
are not, however, really analogous, for the depot fat cannot 
be regarded as actually forming part of the living tissues ; and 
we shall see later that when fat is built up into tissues there is 
evidence that it undergoes considerable change. This deposited 
fat is used in lactating animals to furnish the fat of the milk, 
for the melting point of butter may be definitely altered by 
feeding a cow upon cotton seed oil or palm oil. Again if much 
linseed oil be given the milk will be of an oily nature ; and 
sesame and almond oil have been shown to be present in the 
butter fat of a cow fed upon these foods. The fat of the 
sebaceous glands is also identical with that ingested. 

The fat in the body, besides being derived from that in 
the food, may be formed from carbo-hydrate as was first 
proved by Lawes and Gilbert. In the formation of fat from 
carbo-hydrate we should expect that an excess of C0 2 would be 
liberated, which would appear in the expired air, and as a matter 
of fact a rise of the respiratory quotient above unity has been 
observed in man and animals fed, after fasting, upon an abund- 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 101 

ant carbohydrate diet (Hanriot, Pembrey). In the vegetable 
kingdom oils are of course synthesized and probably from car- 
bo-hydrate. The steps of such a transformation are not yet 
worked out, but we may mention that sugar, under the influence 
of a ferment, can easily give rise to lactic acid, and that the 
liver appears to have the power of forming butyric acid, which 
is a lower member of the fatty acid group, from lactic acid. 
Experimentally, also, some of the lower fatty acids can be 
synthesized from bodies of a carbo-hydrate nature (Harden). 

The evidence for the formation of fat from protein is con- 
flicting ; it was formerly thought that protein could form fat, 
but a repetition of the old experiments has undermined a good 
deal of the evidence. For instance, in the case of animals fed 
for long periods upon protein only it had been found that fat 
was laid on, but it has since been pointed out that the small 
amount of fat remaining among the fibres of the meat given as 
food was sufficient to account for this. Again, the large droplets 
of fat which are to be seen in osmic acid preparations of the 
liver in phosphorus poisoning were taken as evidence of fatty 
degeneration, the fat being regarded as formed from the protein 
of the cells. This conclusion was not, however, justified, for in 
the first place the microscopical evidence of fat is an unsafe guide 
to the actual quantity present, as there may be less fat in a tissue 
which is apparently full of it than in a normal organ showing 
none in the form of droplets : secondly, the fat contained in such 
a poisoned liver has been shown by Rosenfeld to be derived, 
not from the liver, but from the connective tissue ; in the case, 
for example, of a dog first fed on mutton fat and then poisoned 
with phosphorus it was found that the fat in the liver was 
mutton fat. In an organ, then, which shows fatty infiltration 
the fat is not necessarily formed from the protoplasm of the 
organ but may accumulate in droplets because the poisoned 
cells are unable to utilize that which is brought in the blood. 

The changes which take place when fat is oxidized are imper- 
fectly understood. Although fat may be deposited in the tissues, 
and even excreted in the milk unchanged, recent work by Leathes 
and by Hartley suggests that it undergoes important assimila- 
tive changes before it is finally oxidized to furnish energy. The 



102 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

fats isolated from active organs such as the heart and the liver 
have a higher iodine value (that is contain less hydrogen) than 
those in the food. The iodine value of connective tissue fat, 
for instance, is 64 ; the fat of a degenerated liver has a value 
of 70; but that of a normal liver has a value of 120. It 
is probable, therefore, that the ordinary fats are transformed in 
the tissues into more complex substances, of which lecithin may 
serve as a type ; and several lecithin-like bodies of great com- 
plexity have been found in the heart muscle. The study of these 
will probably yield information as to the mode of utilization 
of fat. 

When fat is burnt in the body the respiratory quotient is low, 
for much of the oxygen taken in is required to oxidize the large 
amount of hydrogen which fats contain and this oxygen is 
excreted as water and does not appear in the expired air, with 

C0 2 

the consequence that the ratio -^-~ is depressed below unity, its 

^2 

theoretical value under these circumstances being - 7. The 
oxidation of protein gives a respiratory quotient of '8, whilst if 
carbo-hydrate is alone being used the quotient observed should 
be unity. 

Fate of carbo-hydrate. The dextrose taken up in the intes- 
tinal capillaries passes by the portal vein into the liver. During 
digestion the portal blood contains from '2 to '4 per cent of sugar, 
whilst during fasting the amount is the same as in the general 
circulation, '05 to '2 per cent. The sugar taken to the liver is 
deposited there as the polysaccharide glycogen. The muscles 
also contain glycogen, and must have the power of forming it 
from the sugar carried to them in the blood, for no glycogen can 
be found in the plasma. The liver synthesizes dextrose, levulose, 
and probably galactose, that is the monosaccharides, to glycogen, 
which appears to be an identical product in each case. It is 
assumed that levulose is not first converted into dextrose and 
then into glycogen because in pancreatic diabetes levulose can 
form glycogen whilst dextrose cannot. Protein has long been 
regarded as a source of glycogen, although careful feeding experi- 
ments do not prove the point satisfactorily. Nevertheless, even 
if food proteins cannot be shown to increase the quantity of gly- 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION, ETC. 103 

cogen in the liver, it appears that the body protein can ; for if 
rabbits are subjected to strychnine poisoning, which leads to the 
disappearance of all the glycogen from the liver and muscles, 
and are then put under the influence of chloral, glycogen is found 
to re-accumulate. 

It is certain that sugar can be formed from protein, and 
though it is not known how far this takes place in health, or 
whether glycogen is a necessary intermediate stage, in diabetes 
a large part of the dextrose in the urine is known to be derived 
from the nitrogenous tissues. 

There is a difference of opinion as to whether sugar is formed 
in the body from fat. We have already seen that when fat is 
being formed from sugar the respiratory quotient is above unity. 
Pembrey has shown, conversely, that in hibernating animals 
respiratory quotients as low as '3 or '4 may be observed. Since 
the normal oxidation of fat gives a quotient of '7, such a figure 
as '4 means that much oxygen is retained in the body, and it 
is reasonable to suppose that this is being used in the formation 
of carbo-hydrate, which contains much more oxygen than fat. 
Leathes suggests as another explanation that fat is imperfectly 
oxidized in the hibernating state. Further argument in favour 
of the formation of sugar from fat is derived from the study 
of diabetes. In this disease the ratio between the dextrose and 

the nitrogen in the urine, known as the ^. ratio, when the 

patient is on a strict diabetic diet, there being no carbo-hydrate 
in the food, has frequently been found to be 11 or 12. Now 
supposing that all the carbon of protein could be excreted in 
the form of sugar, excepting that of the urea arising from the 

D 

nitrogenous part of the protein molecule, the theoretical ^ ratio 

could not be greater than 7. A higher figure, such as 11, means, 
therefore, that sugar has been derived from some other source 
than protein : as no carbo-hydrate is being taken, and the 
glycogen in the body is insufficient to explain the large excess 
of sugar, it is concluded that it is formed from fat. 

The glycogen stored in the liver is discharged as dextrose 
into the hepatic blood to supply the carbo-hydrate needs of the 



104 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

body. The conversion of glycogen to dextrose takes place very 
rapidly after death, and is effected by an intra-cellular ferment, 
which can be extracted by suitable methods. The liver may be 
made to discharge glycogen experimentally by cold, by fasting, 
and by severe exercise, all these being conditions which call for 
a good supply of energy, and this carbo-hydrate food can furnish. 
The liver also loses its glycogen under abnormal experimental 
conditions such as after the diabetic puncture and under the 
influence of various poisons. We possess very little direct 
evidence as to how and where dextrose, whether it be formed 
from glycogen, or directly from protein or fat, is oxidized ; the 
blood itself contains a weak glycolytic ferment, but it is im- 
probable that this is responsible for the great destruction of 
carbo-hydrate which takes place in the body. The muscles are 
certainly the seat of oxidation of non-nitrogenous matter, but 
no glycolytic ferment can be extracted from muscle. Very 
suggestive, however, is the observation of Cohnheim that a mix- 
ture of muscle juice and pancreatic extract gives a strong gly- 
colytic ferment. This would explain the occurrence of diabetes 
after excision of the pancreas, for then the combustion of sugar 
would presumably fail owing to the absence of the pancreatic 
constituent of this ferment. If Cohnheim 's observations were 
fully confirmed we should conclude that sugar is oxidized in the 
muscles under the influence of an activating ferment from the 
pancreas. As the matter stands at present, however, those who 
have repeated these experiments have obtained conflicting 
results. 

It is evident that our knowledge of the fate of food-stuffs 
in the tissues is very imperfect. Nevertheless great strides 
have been made in the last ten years in the study of this inter- 
mediate metabolism. These researches are of vital importance 
to the science of dietetics. Only as we understand the exact 
uses to which foods are put can we expect to adapt the diet 
wisely to all the varied needs of the individual, and to guide 
public opinion, both in respect to food and to general hygiene, 
along such paths as shall lead to the perfect development of 
the body and of the mind. 



THE RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK 

ON DIET 



CHAPTER IV 

THE RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON 

DIET 

BY E. I. SPRIGGS, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

General Considerations. Protoplasm can only live under 
certain narrow conditions, of which the presence of oxygen, 
a moderate degree of warmth and of moisture, and a more or 
less regular supply of food are the most obvious. In the highly 
developed mammalia, and especially in man, these conditions 
are far more stringent than in lower creatures, many of which 
are possessed of great powers of resistance, whereas man can 
only survive the absence of oxygen for a few minutes, of water 
for a few days and food for a few weeks. On the other 
hand the range of temperature in which man can exist and 
be active is wider than that of any animal, owing partly 
to the capacity which his body has of automatically main- 
taining itself at a constant temperature, a capacity shared 
with birds and mammals, and partly to the artificial protections 
against extremes of cold with which he has learned to provide 
himself. 

In the matter of food man is entirely dependent upon animals 
and plants. Plants, by means of their chlorophyll, use the 
energy of the sun's rays to build up their tissues from 
inorganic matter, but, if we exclude oxygen, water and salts, 
all the essential constituents of a man's dietary are the 
products of the protoplasmic activity of other organisms. 
When we consider the almost universal distribution of man 
upon the face of the earth, and that the plants and animals 
which flourish in different regions vary to an enormous degree, 
it is clear that the races of mankind are able to exist upon 

107 



108 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

dietaries which must differ widely from one another. The 
difference is, however, more apparent than real, for the 
animals and plants consumed all owe their value as food 
to the fact that they are composed of one or more of three sub- 
stances, protein, fat and carbo-hydrate. So that the contrast 
between the diets of different peoples, though very obvious 
when we regard the source and the appearance of their food, 
is less marked if its actual composition be ascertained. Yet 
when this has been done, and the diets of various races have 
been expressed as containing on the average such and such 
proportions of the three main food-stuffs it will still be found 
that these proportions, as well as the total amounts of food 
taken, are far from identical. The variations are caused by 
numerous factors, such as the nature of the plants and animals 
available for food, and the degree of intelligence shown in 
securing a regular supply. The quality and sufficiency of 
the diet has, conversely, a far-reaching influence upon the 
development of the race, an influence which is directly seen in 
the physical well-being associated with an adequate supply of 
suitable food. The progress of any nation will be hampered if 
its citizens are ill fed, for upon food depends not only life itself, 
but the power to work and to resist disease. Further, the 
development of the race is indirectly affected by diet through 
the sharpening of the wits and the social co-ordination which 
arise in the course of evolution from the necessity for the 
provision of food. For the supply of food depends upon the 
exertions of the individual, and its regular distribution upon 
the organization of the race. 

In this chapter we shall pass in review some of the experi- 
mental data upon which the science of dietetics is founded. 
In so doing we must not neglect the evidence already provided. 
In the experience of mankind we have spread before us the 
results of the experiment of ages. That experiment shows that 
the human race can live a healthy life under dietetic conditions 
of great variety. This single consideration indicates with what 
care conclusions should be drawn. Wisdom does not find her 
dwelling place exclusively in this or in that system. Only by 
a careful and open-minded examination of the teachings of 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 100 

experience, as well as of the results of scientific experiment, 
can principles be enunciated which will form a basis upon 
which Dietaries may be constructed for the varying conditions 
of health and of disease. 

The problems of dietetics are of great intricacy, for no definite 
food or combination of foods can be regarded as suitable for 
different people, or for the same person under different circum- 
stances. The application of the experimental method has, 
however in this, as in other branches of science, yielded some 
insight into the general principles which govern the nutrition 
of the body. 

Innumerable examples could be gathered from the veget- 
able and animal worlds to illustrate the great effect of food 
variations upon growth and development, of which we may quote 
two or three. Brennan's experiments show the influence of a 
nutritive soil upon the evolution of a plant. In 1872 that 
observer set some plants of Tradescantia Virginia in good soil 
and carefully tended them. The ovary of this flower is 
trimerous, there being three petals, three sepals and six 
stamens. In seven years a number of the blossoms showed 
five segments, and in fourteen years an ovary with eight 
segments was detected. On the other hand, a bad soil, as 
every farmer knows, will yield a poor growth. The dwarf 
plants of the Japanese have been produced in the course of 
time by keeping them in poor soil and pruning the roots. 
A good instance of the effect of under-nutrition upon the 
development of animals is furnished by de Varigny, who 
kept tadpoles in the gill-bearing stage for two years by with- 
holding suitable food. When flesh was given the limbs were 
evolved in three weeks, the long tail gradually disappeared, and 
the tadpoles became toads at last. But perhaps the most striking 
example of the effect of food upon development in the animal 
world is afforded by the queen bee, which grows from a larva 
in all respects similar to that of the worker bee, but is dif- 
ferently treated in the one respect that it is assiduously fed 
upon a rich diet. 

The state of nutrition may also influence the determination 
of sex, particularly in many of the lower organisms. Prantl 



110 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

observed that the spores of ferns developed chiefly prothallia, 
the male elements, if placed in a soil poor in nitrogenous 
material, especially if there was much crowding ; with better 
soil and fewer spores, most of them were found to contain the 
female archegonia. Yung found that frogs fed upon meat 
produce a greater percentage of females. Many quadrupeds 
and birds multiply more freely upon a plentiful diet, al- 
though a change from a natural supply to an excess of food may 
have the opposite effect, and even produce sterility. 

The nature of the food may modify the structure of the 
alimentary tract. John Hunter demonstrated, in a specimen 
preserved at the Royal College of Surgeons, that in a gull 
which had been fed for a year upon grain the muscular coat of 
the stomach became thickened. It has since been shown that in 
certain gulls this takes place annually ; for half the year grain 
forms the dietary, and at this time the stomach wall takes on 
gizzard-like characters, whilst when the animal is feeding on 
fish these features disappear. It is not within our scope to 
discuss here the effects which changes of diet produce in the 
domestic animals, in the composition, for instance, of the wool 
of the sheep, of the flesh of the ox and pig, and in many other 
respects. The annals of institutes of experimental agriculture 
in this country, in Canada, the United States, and on the Con- 
tinent, record a great number of such observations and abound 
in material of the greatest interest, to some of which we shall 
have occasion to refer. 

Definition of food, and conditions which food-stuffs must 
satisfy. A food has been defined by C. Voit as a " substance 
which can cause the addition of a necessary element to the body 
or prevent or diminish the discharge of such material." To 
this is added that the substance must not be injurious or cause 
a greater loss of energy than it brings in. 

This definition includes oxygen, water and mineral salts, 
as well as protein, fat, and carbo-hydrate. It expresses the 
conception of food as matter supplied to the body, without 
verbal mention of the potential energy with which some of that 
matter must be endowed. Those foodstuffs which yield energy 
are, however, clearly designated in the words " substance which 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK OX DIET 111 

can . . . prevent or diminish the discharge of material " from 
the body. We have discussed the twofold function of the food 
in the last chapter and have seen that oxygen, water, salts, 
and that amount of protein which is needed to replace the wear 
and tear of tissues, supply the material needs of the body, whilst 
fat, carbo-hydrate and any excess of protein furnish energy for 
the activities of the muscles and other organs. It may seem 
unfortunate that the same term should be used for that which 
furnishes material and that which furnishes energy. But a 
separation of the two classes offers difficulties, for the energy 
yielding foods, especially protein, also provide material for the 
structure of the tissues, and any definition restricting the term 
food to substances capable of giving up energy to the organism 
would exclude water and salts, without which life cannot 
be supported. Oxygen is not commonly regarded as a food- 
stuff, and may be excluded by limiting the definition to 
materials taken in from the alimentary canal. We shall find 
occasion to discuss the part played by water and salts in the 
diet of man. The science of dietetics is, however, chiefly 
occupied with the study of those foods which are oxidized in 
the body and provide power for the activity of the muscles, 
glands, and other organs. 

We have considered, in the previous chapter, the three classes 
of food-stuffs, protein, carbo-hydrate, and fat, and have referred 
to the decompositions which they undergo in the tissues. 
Each of them when oxidized by burning the dry material 
gives out a definite quantity of heat for every gramme burnt. 
This is known as the heat value, or caloric value, and is ex- 
pressed in kilocalories. A kilocalorie, large calorie, or Calorie,i 
is a thousand small calories. A small calorie is the amount of 
heat required to raise a gramme of water through 1 Centi- 
grade. This unit is inconveniently small for physiological 
values. The caloric value of any food can be determined by a 
calorimeter, and is a measure of the energy which is given 

1 When the word calorie is used alone it should, strictly speaking, 
be spelt with a capital letter if large calories are denoted. This rule is, 
however, commonly observed in the breach, and in works on metabolism 
the term calorie may always be presumed to refer to large or kilo-calories. 



112 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



out by the complete oxidation of the substance under any 
circumstances. That is to say a gramme of fat oxidized in the 
body to carbon dioxide and water yields exactly the same energy, 
manifested as work or as heat, as if it were burnt in the calorimeter. 
The following table gives the heat evolved by a few repre- 
sentative food-stuffs when burnt in a bomb calorimeter. 



1 gramme of casein 

1 egg albumen 



yielded 



protein (average). 
animal fat . 
butter fat . 
cane sugar . 
sugar of milk 
grape sugar 
starch 



5'9 kilocalories. 

5-7 

5-7 

9-5 

9-2 

4-0 

3-9 

3-7 

4-2 



(From Hammarsten's Physiol. Chem., Transl. by Mandel.) 



The carbo-hydrates and fats are completely burnt in the 
oody, and therefore give up all their available energy. With 
protein the case is different, for the nitrogen it contains is 
excreted as urea and other bodies which are not completely 
oxidized and therefore have themselves a heat value. By sub- 
tracting the value of the nitrogenous excreta from that of the 
protein in the food a figure is reached which is a measure of the 
energy actually yielded to the body, and this is knpwn as the 
" physiological heat value " of protein. Taking the average 
of the heat of combustion of different carbo-hydrates, fats, and 
proteins, and allowing for the incomplete oxidation of protein 
the physiological caloric values according to Riibner are 



1 gramme of protein 

1 fat . 

1 carbo-hydrate 



4'1 calories. 

- 9-3 

- 4-1 



On a vegetable diet the physiological heat value of protein 
is a little lower than the above, because absorption is less 
complete, and is given at 3*9. The value of animal 
protein is, however, about 4' 2, so that on a diet of which 
60 per cent of the protein was derived from animal sources 
and 40 from vegetable the figure would remain at that given 
by Riibner, namely 4'1. 

From these figures it is possible to calculate approximately 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 113 

the fuel value of any diet if the composition of its constituents 
be known. A more accurate method is to determine in a calori- 
meter the heat of combustion of the actual foods and that of 
the dried excreta, the difference between the two giving the 
energy which the body has retained. This has been done 
in some recent researches. For calculating the value of 
diets in medical work, Riibner's averages are sufficiently 
accurate. We can therefore ascertain by these means how 
much energy is taken in by an individual over any period 
of time. This energy is used in the activities of the body or 
else stored up in fat, protein, or glycogen, to be available for 
use in the future. Careful experiments have shown that there 
is a balance between the energy taken in as food and that given 
out by the body in the form of work or heat, and that the body 
has no other source of energy but the food. 

We see then that the food-stuffs, except water and salts, are 
substances which are capable of being oxidized to give up energy. 
But if this were all, any combustible substance, such as coal or 
wood, would be available as a food-stuff, and this is not the case. 
A food must therefore possess certain other qualifications. Of 
these the chief is that it must be capable of digestion, that is 
to say, of being broken down by the chemical activity of the 
digestive juices into such a form as can be absorbed, and further, 
the substances absorbed must be such as can be oxidized in the 
tissues. 

In health the process of digestion is carried on without any 
conscious sensation except of well-being. In ill-health unpleasant 
sensations arise which we call indigestion. These feelings are 
almost always connected with that part of the digestion which 
takes place in the stomach. In a person of " weak digestion " 
a food may be indigestible in the sense that it gives rise to pain 
from the stomach, but may nevertheless be successfully dealt 
with by the juices of the small intestine, where the major part 
of digestion takes place. For this reason the term digestibility 
is often limited to mean digestibility in the stomach without 
undue delay or painful sensation, and the length of time which 
food remains in the stomach is taken as a measure of its " digesti- 
bility." This criterion is of use in disease but of much less value 

8 



114 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

in health, and it is a mistake to conclude that foods which remain 
long in the stomach should be avoided by normal people on that 
account. In its true sense the term " digestibility " refers to 
the whole process of digestion, and an indigestible food is one 
a great part of which passes out in the faeces without having 
been disintegrated and absorbed. Most ordinary foods are in 
this sense digestible, the least so being vegetable foods con- 
taining much fibre. A table showing the digestibility or 
absorbability of a number of food-stuffs has been given in the 
last chapter under the heading of absorption. 

The following table, representing the experiments of various 
authors and compiled from Hutchison's Food, and the Princi- 
ples of Dietetics, gives the length of time which various foods 
were found to remain in the stomach. 

Beef, raw ....... 2 hours. 

boiled . ... 3 

half roasted . . 3 

,, roasted . . . . . . . 4 ,, 

The digestibility of mutton has been found to be about the same as 
that of beef. Pork requires a longer time than mutton and beef, and 
veal appears to occupy an intermediate position. 

Bread, 2 ozs. . . . . . 2J hours. 

Eggs, two, lightly boiled . . . . If 

raw . . . . 2J 

,, poached with butter . . . . 2J 

hard boiled . . . . . 3 ,, 

as an omelette . . . . 3 

'Fish, 7 ozs. . . . . . . . 2 

Salt Fish . . .... 4 

Apple, raw, 5J ozs. . . . . 3 ,, 

Cabbage, 5J ozs. . .... 3 

Cauliflower, 5J ozs. . . . . . 2J 

Potatoes, 5J ozs. ...... 2-2J 

Lentils, boiled, 5J ozs. . . . . . 4 

Peas, 7 ozs. . . . . . . 4J 

Rice, boiled, 2 ozs. . . . . 3 ,, 

These figures must be regarded as examples and too much 
reliance must not be placed upon them. The time taken for 
dealing with a simple food-stuff does not necessarily apply to 
that food-stuff when taken with others. Individuals also differ 
widely in their digestive powers. We may expect the skiagraphic 
method to furnish us with exact information as to the length of 
time which meals remain in the normal and the diseased stomach. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 115 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

The composition of the chief foods used in this country is 
given in the following tables. The foods are arranged in alpha- 
betical order under the headings 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



Meat 

Poultry 

Fish 

Eggs 

Dairy product^ 



VEGETABLE FOOD. 



Flours and meals 

Bread and pastry 

Sugars and starches 

Vegetables 

Pickles 

Fruits 

Nuts 



page 115 

-. 116 

117 

., 117 

117 



118 
119 
119 
119 
120 
120 
120 



These analyses are selected from Atwater & Bryant's Com- 
position of American Food Materials, Bulletin 28, issued by the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture, from the Office of Experiment 
Stations. The caloric or fuel value of the foods, given in the 
last column of the tables, represents the " physiological " value, 
that is to say the available, not the total, energy. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATEBIALS. 
In all cases the edible portion of the food is referred to. 



Food Materials. 


Water. 


Protein. 
Nx6-26. 


Fat. 


Total 
Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Ash. 


Fuel 
value per 
pound. 


ANIMAL FOOD. 
Beef, Fresh. 
Ribs lean 


P. ct. 
71-3 


P. ct. 
19'5 


P. ct. 
8-3 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 
1-0 


Cab. 
715 


medium fat . 
fat 


62-7 
52-0 


18-5 
16-5 


18-0 
31-1 





1-0 

0-8 


1,105 
1,620 


Loin, lean 
medium fat . 
fat 


67-0 
60-6 
54'7 


19-7 
18-6 
17-5 


12-7 
20-2 
27-6 





1O 

1-0 
0-9 


900 
1,190 
1,490 


Round, medium fat 
Sweetbreads as purchased. 
Tongue 


65-5 
70-9 
70-8 


20-3 
16-8 
18-9 


13-6 
12-1 
9-2 





1-1 
1-6 
1-0 


950 
8SB 

740 

















116 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



Food Materials. 


Water. 


Protein. 
Nx6-25. 


Fat. 


Total 
Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Ash. 


Fuel 
value per 
pound. 




P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


Cals. 


ANIMAL FOOD, continued. 














Beef, Cooked. 
















48-2 


22-3 


28-6 





1-3 


1,620 


Loin steak, broiled . 


54-8 


23-5 


20-4 





1-2 


1,300 


Beef, Corned. 














Corned beef 


51-8 


26-3 


18'7 




4-0 


1,280 


Tongue, whole .... 


51-3 


19-5 


23-2 





4-0 


1,340 


Veal, Fresh. 














Loin, medium fat . 


68-9 


20-5 


10-4 





1-0 


820 




73-0 


19-0 


5-3 




1*3 


575 


Lamb, Fresh. 














Foreouarter ..... 


55-1 


18-3 


25'8 




1-0 


1,430 


Lamb, Cooked. 










X Vf 




Chops, broiled .... 


47-6 


21-7 


29-9 





1-3 


1,665 


Mutton, Fresh. 














Leg, hind, medium fat . 


62-8 


18-5 


18-0 





1-0 


1,105 


Shoulder, medium fat . 


61-9 


17-7 


19-9 





0-9 


1,170 


Mutton, Cooked. 














Leg, roast 


50-9 


25-0 


22-6 





1-2 


1,420 


Sheep's kidneys, as pur- 














chased 


78-7 


16'5 


3-2 




1-3 


440 


Pork, Fresh. 














Ham fresh 


50'1 


15-7 


33-4 




0'9 


1,700 


Loin chops .... 


50'7 


16'4 


32'0 




0-9 


1,655 


Pork. 














Liver 


71-4 


21'3 


4-5 


1*4 


T4 


615 


Pork, Salted and Smoked. 














Ham, smoked, medium fat . 


40-3 


16-3 


38-8 





4-8 


1,940 


Bacon, smoked, lean 


31-8 


15-5 


42-6 





11-0 


2,085 


Bacon, smoked, medium fat 


18-8 


9-9 


67-4 





4-4 


3,030 


Bacon, smoked .... 


20-2 


10-5 


64-8 





5-1 


2,930 


Sausage. 














Pork 


39'8 


13'0 


44-2 


i .1 


2'2 


2,125 


Poultry, Fresh. 














Chicken 


74'8 


21'5 


2'5 




ri 


505 


Fowls 


63'7 


19-3 


16'3 




ro 


1,045 


Goose, young .... 


46-7 


16-3 


36-2 





0-8 


1,830 


Turkey 


55-5 


21-1 


22-9 





1-0 


1,360 


Poultry and Game, Cooked. 














Capon 


59-9 


27-0 


11 -5 




1-3 


985 


Turkey, roast .... 


52-0 


27-8 


18-4 





1-2 


1,295 


,, roast, light and dark 














meat and stuffing 


65-0 


(17'P) 


10-8 


5-5 


1-6 


870 



1 By difference. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 117 



Food Materials. 


Water. 


Protein. 
Nx.6-25 


Fat. 


Total 
Carbo- 

hydrates. 


Ash. 


Fuel 1 ' 
value per 
pound. 


ANIMAL FOOD, continued. 
Fish, Fresh. 
Cod 


P. ct. 
82'6 


P. ct. 
16'5 


P. ct. 
0*4 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 
i-2 


MK 

325 


Eels, salt water, head, skin, 
and entrails removed 
Hake, entrails removed 
Haddock, entrails removed 
Halibut, steaks or sections . 
Herring .... 


71-6 
83-1 

81-7 
75-4 
72-5 


18-6 
15-4 
17-2 
18-6 
19-5 


9-1 
0-7 
0-3 
5-2 

7-1 





1-0 
1-0 
1-2 
1-0 
1-5 


730 
315 
335 
565 
660 


Mackerel 


73-4 


18-7 


7*1 




1-2 


645 


Mullet 


74-9 


19-5 


4*6 




1*2 


555 


Salmon 


64-6 


22-0 


12*8 




1*4 


950 


Smelt 


79-2 


17-6 


1-8 




1-7 


405 


Trout, brook .... 
Turbot 


77-8 
71-4 


19-2 
14-8 


2-1 
14-4 





1-2 
1*3 


445 

885 


Fish, Preserved and Tinned. 
Haddock, smoked . 
Herring, smoked 

Mackerel, salt, dressed 

Salmon, tinned .... 
Sardines, tinned .... 

Shellfish, etc., Fresh. 
Crabs, whole 


72-5 
34-6 

43-4 

63-5 
52-3 

77-1 


23-3 
36-9 

17-3 

21-8 
23-0 

16-6 


0-2 
15-8 

26-4 

12-1 
19-7 

2-0 


1-2 


3-6 
132 

chiefly 
NaCL 
12-9 
chiefly 
NaCl. 
2-6 
5-6 

3-1 


440 
1,355 

1,435 

915 
1,260 

415 


Crayfish, abdomen . 
Lobster, whole .... 
Mussels, in shell .... 
Oysters, in shell .... 
Scallops 


81-2 
79-2 
84-2 
86-9 
80-3 


16-0 
16-4 
8-7 
6-2 
14-8 


0-5 
1-8 
1-1 
1-2 
O'l 


1-0 
0-4 
4-1 
3-7 
3-4 


13 
2-2 
1-9 
2-0 
1-4 


340 
390 
285 
235 
345 


Turtle, green .... 

Shellfish, etc., Tinned. 
Lobster 


79-8 

77-8 


19-8 
18-1 


0-5 
1-1 


0-5 


1-2 
2-5 


390 
390 


Eggs (Hen's). 
Uncooked 


73-7 


13-4 


10-5 




1-0 


720 


With shells 
Boiled 


65-5 
73-2 


11-9 
13-2 


9-3 
12-0 





0-9 

0-8 


635 
765 


White, boiled .... 
Yolk boiled 


86-2 
49-5 


12-3 
15'7 


0-2 
33-3 





0-6 
1-1 


250 

1.7^.-) 


Dairy Products, etc. 
Butter 


11-0 


1-0 


85-0 




3-0 


3,605 


Cheese, American, pale 
American, red . 
,, Cheddar 
Cheshire 


31-6 
28-6 
27-4 
37-1 


28-8 
(29-6) 1 
27-7 
26-9 


35-9 
38-3 
36-8 
30-7 


0-3 

4-1 
0-9 


3-4 
35 
4-0 
4*4 


2,055 
2,165 
2,145 
1,810 



1 By difference. 



118 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



Food Materials. 


Water. 


Protein. 
Xx6'25. 


Fat. 


Total 
Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Ash. 


Fuel 
value per 
pound. 


ANIMAL FOOD, continued. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


Cals. 


Dairy Products, etc., continued. 














Cheese, Dutch .... 


35-2 


(37-1) 1 


17-7 





10-0 


1,435 


Limburger . 


42-1 


23-0 


29-4 


0-4 


5-1 


1,675 


Roquefort . 


39-3 


22-6 


29-5 


1-8 


6-8 


1,700 


Swiss .... 


31-4 


27-6 


34-9 


1-3 


4-8 


2,010 


Milk, condensed, sweetened 


26-9 


8-8 


8-3 


54-1 


1-9 


1,520 


whole 


87-0 


3-3 


4-0 


5-0 


0-7 


325 


skimmed .... 


90-5 


3-4 


0-3 


5-1 


0-7 


170 


Whev 


93-0 


1-0 


0'3 


5-0 


0-7 


125 


Miscellaneous. 














Gelatin 


13-6 


91-4 


O'l 





2-1 


1,705 


Calf 's-foot jelly .... 


77-6 


4-3 




17'4 


0-7 


405 


Lard, unrefined .... 


4-8 


2-2 


94-0 





o-i 


4,010 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION or FOOD MATERIALS. 



Food Materials. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Total 
Carbo- 
hydrates 
including 
fibre. 


Ash. 


Fuel 
value per 
pound. 


VEGETABLE FOOD. 
Flours, Meals, etc. 
Barley meal and flour . 
Barley, pearl .... 
Corn flour 


P. ct. 

11-9 
11-5 
12-6 


P. ct. 

10-5 

8-5 
7-1 


P. ct. 

2-2 
1-1 
1-3 


P. ct. 

72-8 
77-8 
78-4 


P. ct. 

2-6 
1-1 
0*6 


Cals. 

1,640 
1,650 
1 645 


Hominy 
Oatmeal 
,, boiled .... 
gruel .... 
Rice 


11-8 
7-3 
84-5 
91-6 
12-3 


8-3 
16-1 
2-8 
1-2 
8-0 


0-6 
7-2 
0-5 
0-4 
0-3 


79-0 
67-5 
11-5 
6-3 
79'0 


0-3 
1-9 
0-7 
0-5 
0'4 


1,650 
1,860 
285 
155 
1 630 


boiled 
flaked . ... 


72-5 
9-5 


2-8 
7-9 


o-i 

0'4 


24-4 
8T9 


0-3 
0'3 


525 
1 685 


Wheat flour, California, 
flue 


13-8 


7'9 


1-4 


76-4 


0*5 


1 625 


Wheat flour, entire wheat . 
Wheat Preparations. 
Shredded 
Macaroni 
cooked 
Vermicelli 


11-4 

8-1 
10-3 
78-4 
11-0 


13-8 

10-5 
13-4 
3-0 
10-9 


1-9 

1-4 
0-9 
1-5 
2-0 


71-9 

77-9 
74-1 
15-8 
72-0 


1-0 

2-1 
1-3 
1-3 
4-1 


1,675 

1,700 
1,665 
415 
1,625 

















1 By difference. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 119 



Food Materials. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Total 

Car IN,- 
hv.lrat. * 
ncluding 
fibre. 


Alb. 


Fuel 

value j* r 
pound. 


VEGETABLE FOOD, contd. 
Bread, Pastry, etc, 
Bread, Brown .... 
Rolls, French .... 
Vienna .... 
White bread 
Toasted bread .... 


P. ot. 

436 
32-0 
31-7 
35-3 
24-0 
18*8 


P. ct. 

5-4 
8'5 
8-5 
9-2 
11-5 
5*8 


P. ct. 

1-8 
2-5 
2-2 
1-3 
1-6 
9-0 


P. ct. 

47-1 
55-7 
56-5 
53-1 
61-2 
fl^-5 


P. ct. 

2-1 
1-3 
11 
11 
1-7 
2-9 


Cab. 

1,060 
1,300 
1,300 
1,215 
1,420 
1 ft7O 




15'3 


6'3 


10-7 


65 -9 


1-8 


1 T f r > 


Lady fingers 
Macaroons 


15-0 
12'3 


8-8 
6*5 


5-0 
15-2 


70-6 
65'2 


0-6 
0-8 


1,685 
1 975 




42'5 


3-1 


9-8 


42*8 


1*8 


1 270 




41-3 


5*8 


12-3 


Qfl-l 


2-5 


1 OOK 


Pudding, tapioca . 
Sugar, Starches, etc. 


64-5 
18-2 


3-3 
0*4 


3-2 


28-2 

01 -0 


0-8 
0-2 


720 
1 520 


Starch, arrowroot . 


2-3 
12'2 


9-0 


0*4 


97-5 
78-1 


0-2 
n-3 


1,815 
1 635 


tapioca .... 

Vegetables. 
Artichokes ..... 


11-4 
79-5 


0-4 
2'6 


o-i 

0'2 


88-0. 
16-7 


o-i 

1-0 


1,650 
365 


Asparagus ..... 


94-0 


1'8 


0'2 


9-3 


0-7 


105 


Beets fresh 


87'5 


1-6 


O'l 


9-7 


ri 


215 


Cabbage 


91-5 


1*6 


0-3 


5*6 


ro 


145 


Carrots, fresh .... 
Cauliflower 
Celery 


88-2 
92-3 
94-5 


1-1 
1-8 

ri 


0-4 
0-5 
O'l 


9-3 

4-7 
3*3 


1-0 
0-7 
1-0 


210 
140 
85 


Cucumbers 


95-4 
91-8 


0-8 
1-2 


0-2 
0'5 


31 

5'8 


0-5 

0'7 


80 
150 


Lentils, dried .... 
Lettuce 


8-4 
94-7 


25-7 
1'2 


1-0 
0-3 


59-2 
2-9 


5-7 
0*9 


1,620 
90 


Mushrooms . 


88'1 


3-5 


0*4 


6*8 


1'2 


210 


Onions, fresh .... 
Parsnips . 


87-6 
83'0 


1-6 

re 


0-3 
0'5 


9-9 
13'5 


0-6 
T4 


225 

300 


Peas green 


74-6 


7-0 


(V5 


16-9 


1-0 


465 


,, dried 
Potatoes, raw .... 
cooked, boiled . 
cooked, chips 
,, cooked, mashed 
and creamed .... 
Radishes . . ... 


9-5 
78-3 
75-5 
2-2 

75-1 
9T8 


24-6 
2-2 
2'5 
6-8 

2-6 
1-3 


1-0 

o-i 
o-i 

39-8 
3-0 

o-i 


62-0 
18-4 
20-9 
40-7 

17-8 
5'8 


29 

10 

10 
4-5 

1-5 
1-0 


1,655 
385 
440 
8,670 

608 

135 


Rhubarb 


94-4 


0-6 


0-7 


3-6 


0-7 


105 


Spinach, fresh .... 
Tomatoes, fresh ... 


92-3 
94-3 
89-6 


2-1 
0-9 
1-3 


0-3 
0-4 
0-2 


3-2 
3-9 
8-1 


2-1 
0-6 
0-8 


110 
105 
185 

















120 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



Food Materials. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Total 
Carbo- 
hydrates 
including 
fibre. 


Ash. 


Fuel 
value per 
pound. 


VEGETABLE FOOD, contd. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


P. ct. 


Gals. 


Vegetables, Tinned. 
















85'3 


3'6 


0'2 


9'8 


1-1 


255 


Tomatoes .... 


94-0 


1-2 


0'2 


4'0 


0-6 


105 


Pickles, Condiments, etc. 














Olives, green .... 


58-0 


1-1 


27-6 


11-6 


1-7 


1,400 


,, ripe 


64-7 


1-7 


25-9 


4-3 


3-4 


1,205 


Pickles, mixed .... 


93-8 


1-1 


0-4 


4-0 


0-7 


110 


Fruits, Berries, etc., Fresh. 














Apples 


84-6 


0-4 


0-5 


14-2 


0-3 


290 


Apricots 


85-0 


1-1 





13-4 


0-5 


270 


Bananas, yellow 


75-3 


1-3 


0-6 


22-0 


0-8 


460 


Blackberries 


86-3 


1-3 


1-0 


10-9 


0-5 


270 


Cherries 


80-9 


ro 


0-8 


16'7 


0-6 


365 


Cranberries 


88-9 


0-4 


0-6 


9-9 


0-2 


215 


Currants 


85-0 


1-5 





12-8 


0-7 


265 


Figs, fresh 


79-1 


1-5 





18-8 


0-6 


380 


Grapes 


77-4 


1-3 


1-6 


19-2 


0-5 


450 


Oranges 


86-9 


0-8 


0-2 


11-6 


0-5 


240 


Pears 


84-4 


0-6 


0-5 


14-1 


0-4 


295 


Pineapple 


89-3 


04 


0-3 


9-7 


0-3 


200 


Plums 


78-4 


1-0 





20-1 


0'5 


395 


Strawberries .... 


90-4 


1-0 


0-6 


7-4 


0-6 


180 


Watermelons .... 


92-4 


0-4 


0-2 


6-7 


0-3 


140 


Fruits, Dried. 














Apples 


28-1 


1-6 


2-2 


66-1 


2-0 


1,350 


Apricots 


29-4 


4-7 


1-0 


62-5 


2-4 


1,290 


Currants, Zante .... 


17-2 


2-4 


1-7 


74-2 


4-5 


1,495 


Dates 


15-4 


2-1 


2-8 


78-4 


1-3 


1,615 


Figs . 


18-8 


4-3 


0-3 


74-2 


2-4 


1,475 


Prunes 


22-3 


2-1 




73-3 


2-3 


1,400 


Raisins 


14-6 


2-6 


3-3 


76-1 


3-4 


1,605 


Peaches 


88-1 


0-7 


o-i 


10-8 


0-3 


220 


Pears 


81-1 


0-3 


0'3 


18-0 


0'3 


355 


Nuts. 


* 












Almonds 


4-8 


21-0 


54-9 


17'3 


2-0 


3,030 


Brazil nuts 


5-3 


17-0 


66-8 


7'0 


3-9 


3,265 


Chestnuts, fresh .... 


45-0 


6-2 


5-4 


42-1 


1-3 


1,125 


dried .... 


5-9 


10-7 


7-0 


74-2 


2-2 


1,875 


Cocoanuts 


14-1 


5-7 


50-6 


27-9 


1-7 


2,760 


Filberts 


3-7 


15-6 


65-3 


13'0 


2-4 


3,290 


Walnuts, California 


2-5 


18-4 


64-4 


13-0 


1-7 


3,300 


Miscellaneous. 














Chocolate 


5-9 


12-9 


48-7 


30-3 


2-2 


2,860 


Cocoa ... 


4-6 


21-6 


28-9 


37-7 


7-2 




















RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 121 



GRAPHIC REPRESENTATION OF DIETS 

The greatest hindrance to the practical study of dietetics 
is the troublesome arithmetic which has to be done, to 
-calculate the heat value and the composition of an ordinary 
meal. Even if a diet is to be only roughly estimated over any 
length of time the labour involved is almost prohibitive, unless 
precisely the same foods are taken, and any means of simplifying 
the prescribing of diets is therefore to be welcomed. Irving 
Fisher has suggested that food should be served in portions repre- 
senting 100 calories or a multiple of this quantity. A table is 
subjoined (p. 125) in which the quantity of food corresponding to 
this value is given. It is well worth while for any medical man 
to weigh out the commonly used foods, according to the table, 
in order to see the amounts of each which are of equal food 
value. An impression gained in this way by the eye is more 
lasting than the memory of figures gathered from the printed 
page, and it will be found that when these helpings have been 
weighed out once or twice it is easy in future to give the 
approximate quantities and to serve foods at table in portions of 
100, 200, or 300 calories. This method should prove of value in 
sanatoria and other institutions, and in treating patients in 
their homes whose diet it is necessary to control. In the third, 
fourth and fifth column of the table is stated how much of the 100 
calories in each portion is furnished by protein or fat or carbo- 
hydrate. This proportion is represented graphically by Irving 
Fisher on a triangle (Fig. 1), one angle P, representing protein, 
another F, fat, and the third C, carbo-hydrate. A right angled 
triangle is employed for convenience instead of an equilateral 
one. A food the caloric value of which is entirely due to protein, 
such as the white of egg, would be represented by a dot on the 
point P ; butter, the heat of combustion of which is all derived 
from fat would fall on the point F, and starch on the carbo- 
hydrate point C. Foods containing various proportions of 
these three food-stuffs may be represented by dots in the triangle ; 
the more protein, for instance, a food contains, the nearer will 



122 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



the dot be to P, whilst a food containing no protein would be 
located upon the line CF. In marking the points it is only 
necessary to consider the proportion of two of the elements, say 
protein and fat. For instance, in bread we see from the table 
that 13 per cent of its caloric value is furnished by protein, and 
6 per cent by fat. The point representing bread will therefore 
be placed 13 hundredths from the line CF to P, and 6 hundredths 
of the distance from CP to F, as shown in Fig. 1. If the lines 
CP and CF be divided into ten parts as in the figure it is easy 
to find this point. 

We at once have a graphic representation of bread as a food 




BUTTER 
tO 2O 50 4O 50 60 70 80 90 100 p" 

FIG. 1. 



and can see at a glance that it is comparatively poor in protein 
and fat whilst rich in carbo-hydrate, as is evidenced by the nearness 
of the point to the angle C, or its distance from the line PF. 
In order to represent a mixed food such as bread and butter on 
the chart, we should mark in a dot for bread in the approximate 
place, representing 1*3 oz. of bread, or 100 calories ; 100 
calories in the form of butter would be *4 oz., and this would 
be represented by a dot on the point F : a point halfway between 
the two will represent the composition of the bread and butter. 
If one portion of bread is combined with half a portion of butter 
the bread and butter point will be one-third of the way from 
the bread point to the butter point, it will in fact be at the centre 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 123 

of gravity of the two points supposing the bread point to be 
twice the weight of the butter point. 

Milk is represented (Fig. 1) by a point above that of bread 
and butter since 52 per cent of its heat value is in the form of 
fat and 19 per cent as protein. In this way every food may be 
represented by a point on the triangle, and if each portion given 
be worth 100 calories, or a multiple of it, it is easy to find the 
point which will represent the meal as a whole. 

Thus if, as in Fig. 2, the different points represent 300, 400 
and 500 calorie portions respectively of three different foods, 
" the point representing the combination may be found by 



100 
90 
80 
70 
60 
50 
40 
50 
20 
10 



C 


P 

N 


\ 


\ 


\ 


\ 


\ 


\ 










r 






1 






M 


^. 








/ 


~^ 


^ 


12 






44 








^s 


^ 


X 














P X 














\F 


10 20 30 40 5O 60 70 8O 90 100 



FIG. 2. 



joining the points 3 and 4, and finding their centre of gravity, 
7, situated nearer the point 4 than the point 3, and dividing 
the line between them in the ratio of 3 to 4. The first two 
points, 3 and 4, may be considered as concentrated at 7 with 
their combined weight, 7. We then find the centre of gravity 
of this new point 7 and the remaining point, 5. The centre of 
gravity of this point 7 and point 5 will be a point, 12, on the 
straight line between them, situated nearer the 7 than the 5, 
and dividing the distance between them in the ratio of 5 to 7. 
At the point 12 the whole combination of 12 portions may be 
considered to be concentrated. It is evident that we could find 



124 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



the centre of gravity of the same three points by combining them 
in a different order, but the result would be the same " (I. Fisher). 
This process when it has been once or twice practised is easy. 
The central point may also be found still more quickly by an 
arrangement by which a triangular card is pierced by heavy- 
headed pins representing the foods, pins of half or quarter the 
weight being used to represent half or a quarter of a standard 
portion. The card and pins are then hung in a mechanical 
device and adjust themselves in such a position that the centre 
of gravity lies beneath a pointer which can be pushed down to 
mark the spot. The caloric value of the diet is found by adding 
up the number of whole portions of 100 calories each. 

The proportion of protein in the food, if 100 grammes be 
taken as a normal quantity, should be above the 10 line, for 100 
grammes in a diet of 3,000 calories represents 13 per cent of 
the total calories. A diet suitably provided with protein will 
be somewhere in the rectangle represented in Fig. 3. The foods 
or diets lying within this rectangle are well balanced. Low 
protein diets will be on or below the lower boundary. As an 
illustration the positions of diets in the navy and army, and in 
prisons are shown. 



Navy (cells), --. 
1,400 cals. 



1 

DO 

so 

70 
60 

50 
40 
30 
20 
10 


D 

\ 


\ 


\ 


\ 


\ 


.] 

% 


5 rison, 3,070 cals. 

Navy, 
,-' 3,280 cals. 










































' 


\ .-Army 
X 3,300 


cals. 

V 








,-' 








u 


' 


* 








s 

















10 ZO 30 40 50 6O 70 80 90 100 

c 

FIG. 3. 



The following table gives the data necessary for serving diets 
which can be graphically represented by this method. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 125 



THE QUANTITIES OF ORDINARY FOODS WHICH YIELD 100 CALORIES WITH 
THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE HEAT VALUE BETWEEN PROTEIN, FAT 
AND CARBO-HYDRATE (!RVTNO FISHER). 



Food Materials. 


Weight of 
Food 
yielding 
100 Calories. 


Percentage of total 
Caloric Value yielded 
by Protein, Fat or 
Carbo-hydrate. 




Cooked Meats. 


Grras. Oza. 


P. 


F. 


C. 




Chicken .... 


90 3-2 


79 


21 





Ordinary serving. 


Beef, boiled, lean 


62 2-2 


90 


10 





Large serving. 


,, roast, fat . 


32 1-2 


25 


75 





Small serving. 


Sirloin .... 


40 ; 1-4 


31 


69 








Mutton, boiled . 


34 1-2 


35 


65 





t 


Ham, boiled . 


32 1-1 


28 


72 





Ordinary serving. 


fat . . 


27 1-0 


19 


81 





Small serving. 


Bacon .... 


15 


0-5 


6 


94 





Ordinary serving. 


Uncooked. 














Mackerel. 


57 


2-0 


50 50 





Ordinary serving. 


Oysters .... 


100 


3-6 


10 1 


89 


One dozen. 


Dairy Products. 












Milk 


140 


4-9 


19 


52 


29 


Small glass. 


skimmed. . 


255 


9-4 


37 


7 


56 


l glass. 


,, condensed, 














sweetened . 


30 


1-1 


10 


23 


67 


tt 


Whey .... 


360 


13-0 


15 


10 


75 


2 glasses. 


Butter .... 


12-5 


0-4 


0-5 


99-5 








Cheese .... 


22 


0-8 


25 


73 


2 


1 cubic inches. 


Eggs 


59 


2-1 


32 


68 





1 large egg. 


Cream .... 


49 


1-7 


5 


87 


8 





Cereals, Vegetables, 














Nuts and Fruits. 














Bread, white 


38 


1-3 


13 


6 


81 


Thick slice. 


brown 


43 


1-5 


9 


7 


84 





Wheat flour . 


27 


1 


15 


5 


80 





Rice 


28 


1 


g 


1 


90 




boiled . 


87 


3-1 


10 


1 


89 


Ordinary serving. 


Cream rice pudding. 


75 


2-6 


8 


13 


79 


Small serving. 


Tapioca, cooked 


108 


3-8 


1 


1 


98 


Ordinary serving. 


Potatoes, boiled 


102 


3-6 


11 


1 


88 


1 large serving. 


baked 


86 


3 


11 


1 


88 


1 good sized serv- 


Cabbage .... 


310 


11 


20 


8 


72 


[ing. 


Lettuce .... 


505 


18 


25 


14 


61 




Peas 


178 


6-3 


25 


3 


72 


2 servings. 


Beans (tinned), baked 


75 


2-7 


21 


18 


61 




Chestnuts 


40 


1-4 


10 


20 


70 





Brazil nuts . 


14 


0-5 


10 


86 


4 


3 nuts. 


Almonds. 


15 


0-5 


13 


77 


10 


8 almonds. 


Dates (edible portion] 


28 


1 


2 


7 


91 


3 large dates. 


Figs, dried . 


31 


1-1 


5 





9o 


1 large 6g. 


Prunes, dried 


32 


1-1 


3 





97 


3 large prunes. 


Raisins .... 


31 


1-1 


3 


9 


88 





Grapes .... 


140 


4-8 


5 


15 


80 





Bananas. 


100 


3-5 


5 


90 


1 large banana. 


Apples .... 


206 


7-3 


3 


7 90 


2 large apples. 


baked . 


94 


3-3 


2 


93 





Apple pie 


38 


1-3 


5 


32 63 


^ ordinary serving* 


Oranges .... 


270 


9-4 


6 


3 91 


1 very large. 


Water melon 


760 


27 


6 


6 88 





Tomatoes 


430 


15 


15 


16 69 


4 ordinary size. 


Marmalade . 


28 


1 


0-5 


2-5 97 


3 teaspoonfuls. 


Sugar 


24 


0-9 





100 


1} lumps. 



126 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



In the following list, the more common foods are arranged 
in the order of their richness in potential energy. 

COMMON FOODS IN ORDER or THEIR CALORIC VALUE. 



Amount con- 
taining 100 
Cals. in 
Ounces. 




Amount con- 
taining 100 
Cals. in 
Ounces. 


Butter 0'4 


Mackerel .... 


2'0 


Brazil nuts . . . 0'5 


Eggs 


2-1 


Bacon 0'5 


Boiled rice 


3-1 


heese 0'8 


Chicken 


3-2 


Sugar 0-9 
Fat ham .... 1 
Beef or mutton with fat 1 "2 
Bread , 1-3 


Baked apples . 
: Bananas .... 
Boiled potatoes 
Milk . . 


3-3 
3-5 
3-6 
4-9 


Cream ' 1'7 


Apples (raw) 


7-3 









The following tables classify the common foods accord- 
ing as their energy is due to protein, carbo-hydrate or fat. It 
will be noticed that milk is the only food in the lists which con- 
tains a good proportion of all three. Cheese, Brazil nuts, and 
bread are represented in each list and contain a fair proportion 
of at least two of the food-stuffs. 

COMMON FOODS ARRANGED nsr ORDER ACCORDING TO THEIR VALUE IN 
PROTEIN, CARBO-HYDRATE AND FAT. 



Percentage of Total Heat 
Value of Food furnished 
by its 
PROTEIN. 


Percentage of Total Heat 
Value of Food furnished 
by its 
FAT. 


Percentage of Total Heat 
Value of Food furnished 
by its 
CARBO-HYDRATE. 


Per cent. 
Lean beef (boiled) . 90 
Chicken. ... 79 
Mackerel ... 50 
Skim milk ... 37 
Eggs .... 32 
Beef with fat . . 25 
Cheese .... 25 


Per cent. 
Butter ... 99 
Bacon ... 94 
Cream ... 87 
Brazil nuts . . 86 
Fat ham ... 81 
Fat beef ... 75 
Cheese ... 73 


Per cent. 
Tapioca (cooked). 98 
Prunes (dried) . 97 
Figs (dried) . . 95 
Rice (boiled) . . 89 
Oysters ... 89 
Potatoes (boiled) . 88 
Bread .... 81 


Fat ham ... 19 
Milk 19 


Eggs .... 68 
Boiled mutton . 65 


Peas .... 72 
Milk .... 29 


Bread .... 13 


Milk .... 52 


Cream .... 8 


Potatoes . . .11 


Mackerel. . . 50 


Brazil nuts . . 4 


Boiled rice ... 10 


Chicken . . .21 


Cheese. ... 2 


Brazil nuts. . . 10 


Boiled lean beef . 10 




Bacon .... 6 


Bread ... 6 




Cream .... 5 


Bananas ... 5 




Bananas ... 5 


Potatoes ... 1 




Butter .... '5 







RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 127 

THE COST OF FOOD 

The cost of food is of prime importance, both to families 
and to institutions. It should be conside*d in relation to the 
fuel value, and to the values in protein, rather than to the price 
per pound. Atwater's invaluable studies included an examina- 
tion of this question, the results of which are embodied in tables 
and diagrams showing the amount of fuel value of each food 
constituent which could be purchased for 25 cents, about a 
shilling. The following tables (from Hutchison) show the 
purchasing value of a shilling for fuel and protein, applied to 
our ordinary food-stuffs. 

QUANTITY or FUEL VALUE OBTAINED FOR A SHILLING IN COMMON FOODS. 
Bread, at IJd. per pound .... 10,764 cals. 

8,921 
3,796 
3,000 
2,884 
2,856 
2,638 
953 
839 
829 

QUANTITY OF PROTEIN OBTAINED FOR A SHILLING IN COMMON FOODS. 
Peas . . . 572 grammes. Milk . . .114 grammes. 

Bread . . .283 Eggs . . 79 

Cheese. . . 272 Potatoes 54 

Fish . . . 218 Apples. . 27 

Beef . . .127 Butter. . . 3'5 

It will be seen that bread holds the first place for fuel value 
and peas (dried) for protein. 

THE EFFECT OF COOKING 

Cooking sterilizes the food and renders it more palatable. 
It also alters its composition in various ways, according to the 
method employed. 

The effect of cooking upon the composition of meat has been 
the subject of numerous researches. In a recent paper by Grindley 
and Emmet describing experiments under conditions which were 
carefully controlled, the following conclusions were drawn. 
Cooking has but little effect upon the total nutritive value of 
meat, whether it be roast or boiled. The method of cooking, 
however, influences the quantity of the nitrogenous and non- 



Peas, 


2d. 





Potatoes, ,, 


K 


,, 


Milk, 


IJd. 


pint 


Butter, ,, 


Is. 3d. 


pound 


Apples, 


Id. 


ii 


Cheese, 


6d. 


> 


Fish, 


4d. 


> 


Eggs, 


Is. 


dozen 


Beef, 


9d. 


pound 



128 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

nitrogenous extractives, to which the flavour is chiefly due, for 
by boiling about two-thirds of these substances, on the average, 
together with a part of the salts of the meat, some fat and a 
very little protein, are transferred to the broth. The longer a 
piece of meat is boiled the richer is the broth, but even after 
many hours the amount of nutritive matter extracted is small. 
The larger the piece of meat the smaller is the relative loss. 
There is of course no economic disadvantage in boiling if the 
broth be served for soup. In raw meat about one-eighth of the 
protein is in a soluble form ; boiling converts most of this into 
insoluble protein. Whether the meat be put first into hot or 
cold water makes very little difference to its final composition. 

In roasting, broiling, or cooking by any form of dry heat 
there is a slight loss of extractives and salts, but much less than 
with boiling, for it was found that dry-cooked meats contain twice 
as much of those soluble organic and inorganic flavouring sub- 
stances as boiled meats. There is also a smaller loss of protein 
and fat in cooking meat by dry heat, but from the nutritive 
standpoint the difference is so slight that it is not of importance. 

The cooking of vegetables breaks up starch grains and bursts 
the walls of the cells, enabling the digestive juices to penetrate 
the mass. The usual method, boiling, involves a great loss of 
nutritive material. Snyder, Frisby and Bryant have shown 
that with potatoes the loss is greatest when they are peeled and 
soaked in water before cooking, the shortage of total nitrogenous 
matter amounting, under these circumstances, to 50 per cent 
and of protein 25 per cent. The loss of mineral matter is 38 
per cent. The loss of total nitrogenous matter and protein is 
about half the above if the peeled potatoes are put at once into 
boiling water : if they are boiled in the skins it is negligible. 
In boiling carrots about 40 per cent of the total nitrogen and 26 
per cent of the sugar is lost, equal to about a pound of sugar in 
a bushel of carrots. At least a quarter of the nutritive material 
is therefore extracted. There is less waste if the carrot be in 
large pieces, and if the boiling be rapid and very little water be 
used. Cabbage does not contain much nutritive matter to begin 
with and it loses about a third of it in boiling. This loss is 
avoided if the cabbage be cooked with meat as a stew, the fluid 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 129 

part of which is also consumed. It is better to steam vegetables 
than to boil them. With cooking by dry heat these losses are 
obviated. Potatoes baked in their skins are therefore an 
economical food. 

On the whole cooking renders meats slightly less digestible 
and vegetables more digestible. 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF DIETS IN HEALTH 

In constructing diets we have first to determine what amount 
of food is required for each individual in order that the body 
may be supplied with sufficient energy to keep it in health and 
vigour ; and secondly, to consider what the composition of that 
food should be. 

I. THE AMOUNT OF FOOD NEEDED. 

Under this heading we shall refer to the total quantity of 
food, expressed in terms of its fuel value and independent of 
its constituents. The amount of food necessary to keep any 
person in a natural state of health and activity depends upon a 
number of circumstances. No definite rule can be laid down, 
for the energy required will of course depend upon how much 
is being used in keeping the body warm and in doing work. 
If more heat is lost and more work is being done, more food 
must be supplied, or the body would be obliged to use its 
own tissues and the weight would fall. The principle of the 
conservation of energy applies to the human being as it does to 
the rest of the natural world, animate and inanimate. We have 
no experimental evidence of exceptions to this rule, know of 
no subtle method by which one individual can, over any long 
period of time, do double the work of another upon half the 
food : although to the unconsidering eye this may sometimes 
seem to be the case, we shall see that many factors besides the 
actual external work, have to be taken into account in estimating 
the energy used by any person ; factors of build, of extent of 
surface, of restlessness or placidity when not actually working, 
of the skilled action of trained muscles or the energy wasting 
contractions of unaccustomed movements. 

9 



130 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

In the first place the food must be proportional to the weight 
of the body. Other things being equal big people will require 
more than those of smaller build. In comparing different 
individuals the weight must, therefore, be taken into account 
and this is done by speaking of the fuel value required for each 
unit of weight, expressed as calories per kilogramme. The 
average fuel value required by adults is about 40 calories per 
kilogramme, but it is possible to support existence upon much 
less than this ; on the other hand, under special circumstances, 
much more is required ; for instance, when weight is being laid on, 
or a great amount of work is being done, as much as 110 to 120 
calories per kilogramme has been known to be taken. 

Since the body cannot produce energy which is not derived 
from the oxidation of the food or of its own substance, it is 
clear that there is an irreducible minimum of food which is required 
if the body tissue is not to be used up. This may be regarded as 
about 35 calories per kilogramme for a person living a sedentary 
life ; 4 pints of milk would furnish this amount of energy ( 1 750 
calories) for a person of 8 stone, or 1 Ib. 2 oz. of bread and 8 oz. 
of meat. For an individual resting entirely in bed it may be as 
low as 25 calories per kilogramme, which would be given by 
3 pints 2 oz. of milk, or by 5J oz. of meat and 13 oz. of bread. 
The extent Of surface which the body presents has a con- 
siderable influence upon the quantity of food required. Thin 
and angular people have a very much greater surface relatively 
to their weight than those of rounded contour, and small people 
have a greater surface, relatively to their weight, than large. 
One of the main sources of loss of energy from the body is the 
radiation of heat from the skin, and this varies directly as the 
area of surface : a whale, for instance, is materially aided in 
keeping its temperature constant in icy waters by the fact that 
its surface is small compared to its bulk. Small mammals, 
having a relatively great surface, have a more active metabolism 
and require very much more food per kilogramme than large 
ones. As an illustration the following figures may be quoted, 
showing the amounts of urea excreted by a man, a dog, and a 
rabbit during fasting, when all the energy used is being supplied 
from the fat and protein of the body. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 131 

A fasting man weighing 70 kilos excreted "6 g. urea per kilogramme. 

dog 30 l'6g 

rabbit 1 3*6 g. 

The amount of energy derived from the protein is six times 
as great for each unit of weight in the rabbit as in the man. A 
better way of estimating the metabolism is to measure the oxida- 
tion going on in the body as shown by the carbon dioxide excreted 
from the lungs. In dogs it has been shown that this is more 
proportional to the surface than to the body weight. Richet 
found that dogs varying in weight from 2' 2 to 28 kilogrammes 
excreted the same amount of carbon dioxide per hour for each 
square centimetre of surface. Now the heat lost from the skin 
is automatically supplied by the generation of heat in the muscles, 
and the temperature thus kept constant. In anaesthesia this 
regulation fails and the temperature falls, since the loss of heat 
from the surface is no longer co-ordinated with its production 
in the muscles. Richet accordingly found that in dogs under the 
influence of chloral the excretion of carbon dioxide was no 
longer proportional to the surface of the animal but simply to its 
weight. 

These considerations are of special interest in connexion with 
the feeding of premature and thin infants, who will require more 
food than plump ones, since a small thin child has a very large 
surface relatively to its weight. As it grows, and especially as it 
lays on fat and becomes rounded, the weight increases more 
rapidly than the surface. Accurately expressed the mass in- 
creases as the cube, the surface as the square. Various researches 
could be quoted to illustrate this point. The amount of milk 
taken at the breast can be ascertained by weighing the child 
before and after it is fed. This has been done over long 
periods, and at the same time analyses have been made to 
determine the heat value of the mother's milk. In this way it 
has been found that an ordinary new-born child, excluding the 
first week when it is losing weight, requires about 100 calories 
per kilogramme, whilst when the child is six months old it uses 
80 or less, the lessened requirement being largely due to the 
diminution of surface relatively to bulk. The actual amount of 
milk taken by the older child is, of course, greater ; we are 



132 A SYSTEM OF DIET AKD DIETETICS 

here referring to the amount taken for each unit of weight. 
We may assume, therefore, that a child weighing 8-9 Ib. should 
receive, after the first week or two, a minimum of 100 calories 
per kilogramme. In English measure this is equal to 2J oz. of 
cow's milk to each pound, or a pint for a child of 9 Ib. For a 
child of six months the minimum of 80 calories per kilo- 
gramme is equivalent to 1| oz. of milk for each pound. Arti- 
ficially fed children have been found to require in some instances 
more than this heat value if they are to grow at the usual rate. 
To illustrate the greater quantities required by thin children, 
Heubner's case may be quoted of a premature child receiving 
11 0-1 25 calories per kilogramme which failed to increase in weight 
until it obtained 150 calories per kilogramme. This is equivalent 
to 68 calories, or about 3 oz. of cow's milk, to the pound. 
In an infant whose weight is stationary, the protein tissues 
continue to grow but the child losss fat. Although the chief reason 
why thin infants require more food per pound is the loss of 
heat from their greater surface, there is another factor, namely, 
the rate of growth ; this is greater in the early months of 
life, but it will only account for a small proportion of the 
great metabolic activity at this time. If this be so, and 
the loss of heat from the surface be so great a drain upon the 
energy of the body in small animals, we should expect that a 
saving to the metabolism would be effected if the temperature of 
the external air were raised. This has been found to be the 
case. If a child be kept in an incubator the loss of heat from the 
surface is lessened, or entirely prevented, and it has often 
been possible to keep premature children alive in this way. 
The premature child, with its small bulk and relatively great 
surface, cannot deal with enough food to make up the loss of heat 
from its skin ; but it can often assimilate enough for nutrition 
and growth if that loss be prevented. 

Even in adults the extent of surface should be considered 
with the diet. Stout people have a relatively smaller surface 
than thin, and this is one reason why they often have 
a smaller appetite. Another reason is that fat is an inert 
tissue and is not undergoing active metabolism and does not 
need nourishing as do the active tissues. A fat man, therefore, 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 133 

having relatively a smaller amount of active tissue, and a 
smaller loss of heat from the surface than a thin man, requires 
less food for each pound of weight. 

Growing animals naturally require more food to form the 
tissue which is being developed from day to day. We have 
already mentioned that the younger the animal the greater is 
the rapidity of growth. Heubner found that the rate of growth 
in a baby in the first three months of life was seven times that 
from the sixth to the ninth month. No weight is added unless 
the food supplied is above a certain amount, which is seldom less 
than 70 calories per kilogramme, or 1 oz. of cow's milk to the pound 
per day, and is, as stated in the last section, usually much 
more. It is true that instances have been recorded in which 
infants have grown naturally with this supply, but they are un- 
common. The excess of food above this figure must be greater 
than the weight to be put on, for the actual amounts of food 
retained each day form only a small proportion of the extra 
food taken. 

In adults increasing in weight there is a definite limit to 
the amount which can be laid on daily, with the exception 
that after long periods of fasting and in convalescence from 
wasting diseases a more rapid increase may be for a time 
maintained. 

Rest and activity. In the ordinary life of adults the amount 
of food needed depends more closely upon the muscular activity 
than upon any other factor. Certain muscles are always active, 
such as those of the circulatory and respiratory apparatus ; the 
tone of the voluntary muscles is being constantly maintained, ex- 
cept in sleep, and during digestion the muscles as well as the glands 
of the alimentary canal are working ; all this work is usually 
designated as " internal work," and it is essential ; a man lying 
in bed upon a minimum diet would expend the energy of his 
food upon the performance of these functions, and the heat 
manifested would be employed in maintaining his temperature. 
Individuals who are moving about in the ordinary course of life 
and employing their skeletal muscles naturally use more energy 
and require more food. Thus At water found in his admirable 
observations that a subject confined in the small calorimetric 



134 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

chamber, even when not doing any definite work, used 80 per 
cent more energy than when lying asleep ; a demonstration in 
figures of the recuperative powers of sleep. Slight unnoticed 
movements are responsible for a considerable expenditure of 
energy ; it has been found by Johannsen that by sitting 
perfectly still and controlling such movements the oxidation as 
measured by the carbon dioxide expired could be reduced by 
nearly a third. The taking of food itself causes a definite expendi- 
ture on the part of the glands and muscles of digestion. In a 
resting man it has been found that the excretion of carbon dioxide 
is over 20 per cent greater when food is taken than upon a fasting 
day. That this is due to gastric and intestinal activity is sup- 
ported by the observation that a similar increase follows the 
administration of purgatives. A meal of protein is followed 
by a greater and more prolonged rise of oxidation than one of 
fat or carbo-hydrate, and this is in accordance with the fact 
that protein takes longer to digest. 

A much greater increase in the oxidation processes is caused 
by the exercise of the voluntary muscles and is followed by a 
corresponding demand for more food. The relation of work to the 
diet of man is of great practical importance, and many experi- 
mental studies have been made upon it. We shall here discuss 
the subject so far as it bears upon the total amount of food, and 
shall have occasion later to consider the constituents of which this 
food should be composed. It is clear that unless the tissues are 
to be drawn upon additional energy must be furnished to supply 
that which is manifested as mechanical work. In Atwater's 
experiments a man working a stationary bicycle against resistance 
evolved as much as 1,000 calories in a couple of hours. The 
same subject working moderately hard evolved 500 calories in 
that time, and when resting in the night 150 only. The point 
of importance in fixing a dietary for stringent conditions, as for 
soldiers on active service, is to determine how much more food 
need be given. The following figures compiled from bulletins 98 
(1901) and 149 (1904) issued from the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions of the United States Department of Agriculture, shows the 
heat value taken in the food by various men doing severe muscular 
work. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 135 





Cal. ' 
per 

y. ! 


I'rot'-iri. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Brickmakers, New England 


8,569 


180 


365 


1,150 


Lumbermen, Maine, U.S.A., working in 
winter and sometimes in cold water. 
Football teams 


r,,9!)5 
6 590 


182 
226 


337 
354 


812 
634 


Bicyclist (Albert) in six days' endurance 


6095 


179 


198 


859 


Bavarian lumbermen 


6,015 


130 


292 


724 


Bicyclist (Miller) in six days' endurance 
contest (winner) 


4 770 


169 


181 


585 




3 955 


155 


177 


440 


Ordinary standard for man with light to 
moderate work 


3,050 


112 






Ordinary standard for man with sedentary 


2,700 


100 

















The amounts of food taken by some of these workers are enor- 
mous. We cannot, however, conclude that they are excessive 
unless the food were not absorbed, or the subjects were putting 
on weight, and neither in the Maine lumbermen nor in the bi- 
cyclists was this the case. These quantities are far in excess 
of those required by ordinary workmen, and they show strikingly 
how extraordinary demands must be met by extraordinary 
supplies. It is surprising that the bicyclists Albert and Miller, 
who rode for six days an average of 1 8 and 20 hours respectively, 
did not take more food, but their nitrogen balance showed that 
there was a considerable daily loss of protein, and it is probable 
that their stores of body-fat were called upon. That the bicyclists 
and the rowing men should come low down on the list may be 
partly due to the fact that their work was done in spells, the 
body recuperating in between ; it also suggests that the body 
may be able to act much more efficiently as a work producer 
when one definite series of muscular movements is repeated over 
and over again, as in bicycling or rowing. According to Atwater's 
experiments an ordinary individual doing muscular work does 
not yield more than about 20 per cent of the energy expended 
as actual work. That is to say, in working a bicycle 100 
calories are expended in the body in order to get the mechanical 
equivalent of 20 calories of heat actually delivered on the 
pedal. The most economical oil engine yet devised is said 



136 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

to yield 33 per cent of its energy as work ; ordinary good oil 
and steam engines have an efficiency of 15 to 22 per cent. 
Zuntz has concluded on experimental grounds that men, horses, 
and dogs have an efficiency of 35 per cent and Kellner and 
Wolff found the same for the horse, a figure much higher than 
Atwater's. It is clear that if by training the efficiency of a man 
could be increased from 20 per cent to a much higher figure he 
would need proportionally less food. This would be more likely 
to take place where only one series of movements was involved. 
The football team in the above series took much more food than 
the oarsmen or bicyclists. Success in rowing or bicycling depends 
on learning to use certain muscles so as to get the greatest possible 
mechanical advantage from the levers represented by the oar and 
the pedal, and upon being able to keep these muscles supplied 
with blood. In playing football, as in hard labouring employ- 
ments, most of the muscles of the body are called upon and in 
various combination with other muscles, and in such a case we 
should not expect them to work with the same neatness and 
economy. 

We may say then that experimental investigation in a 
calorimeter, and experience, teach that, as we should expect 
from the principle of the conservation of energy, the muscular 
work done by any individual cannot be increased over any long 
period without an increase of food, and that the amount of food 
added must always be very much greater than the heat equiva- 
lent of the actual work done. In ordinary individuals about one- 
fifth of the added food will be furnished as work, the rest being 
dissipated as heat ; under special circumstances probably a greater 
efficiency may be attained. When work is carried on under adverse 
conditions of climate and is exhausting, so that tired muscles 
are called upon to contract, no doubt the efficiency is much 
lowered, and this is probably why such an extraordinary supply 
of food was consumed by the lumbermen. Whatever may 
be said later about the need for protein, there can be no 
question as to the greater caloric requirements of workers. This 
is recognized in the regulations for the army rations of various 
nations in peace and in war, as is shown in the following table. 
We must remember, however, that exposure to cold, as on 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 137 



active service, is an additional factor calling for an increase in 
the food supply. It will be seen that the peace ration is raised 
by at least 1,000 calories in war time. 



CALORIC VALUE OF RATIONS. 





Peace. 


War. 


Great Britain 
Regulation diet 


2,946 


3,987 


1 Actual diet obtained 


3 319 




Germany 


2,592 


small 3 613 


France 


2,310 


large 4,213 
small 3,079 






large 3,413 



Revue de Science de VEntendance MUitaire, Aug., 1907, vol. 20. 

We have seen above that the requirements of a moderately 
active man may be taken as 3,000 calories. The usual rations 
in the navy slightly exceed this. In severe weather, or on night 
duty, the value is raised to about 4,400 calories. It appears 
then that ordinary severe labour is met by the addition of 
about 1,000 calories to the diet. This amount is contained 
in Ib. of bread and 2 oz. of meat, or in Ib. of bread and 3 oz. 
of cheese. When an extraordinary amount of work and endur- 
ance is required, the caloric value of the food must be further 
increased. 

Effect of climate upon the amount of food required. We 
have seen that in cold climates, owing to a greater loss of 
heat, more food will be necessary, other things being equal, than 
in the temperate zone, and in the temperate zone more than in 
the tropics. The difference, however, in civilized races under 
ordinary conditions is far less than might be expected, and this 
is because the heating of houses indoors and the thickness of 
the clothing out of doors is so arranged that most of the surface 
of the body is kept at about the same temperature, so that as 
Riibner has said, we all live in a temperature of about 90Fahr., 
which is that of the air between the skin and the clothes. In 
very hot weather the appetite diminishes and less food is taken f 
but weight is often lost, showing that the needs of the body 

1 Calculated by Pembrey and Parker. 



138 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

are not entirely met by the food. The performance of work 
needs the same supply of food in hot and cold climates. When 
the worker is so exposed to cold, or to wet and cold, that the clothes 
cannot prevent great loss of heat from the skin, then much more 
food will be required. This is a partial explanation of the large 
quantities of food, amounting to 7,000 calories, taken by the Maine 
lumbermen referred to on p. 135. In arctic regions those foods 
which have the greatest heat value, that is, the fats, are 
especially serviceable. 

II. THE PROPORTIONS OF THE FOOD-STUFFS REQUIRED IN THE 

DIET or MAN. 

We have seen that the common experience of mankind and 
the evidence of scientific inquiry agree that a sufficient amount 
of food must be taken daily to yield from 2,500 to 3,000 calories. 
When we come to inquire of what constituents this food should 
consist, we find a general agreement upon fundamental points, 
but a great deal of difference of opinion upon others. It is 
established that the dietary of man should include all three 
food-stuffs, protein, fat, and carbo-hydrate. The protein is essen- 
tial : no other material can supply the loss involved in the wear 
and tear of living organs. No other food-stuff can entirely supply 
the needs of an animal as protein can those of the carnivora. 
In the case of man, a healthy existence cannot be supported upon 
protein without carbo-hydrate, and it is a great advantage to 
him to have fat in his diet as well, since fat gives a greater pro- 
portion of energy, weight for weight, than carbo-hydrate or pro- 
tein. We have seen that protein furnishes material for the 
metabolism of structure, whilst carbo-hydrate and fat, and 
any protein in excess of that required for structure, furnish 
energy for the metabolism of function, or put in another way, 
fuel value to supply heat and work. Two points arise for 
consideration, first, what is the minimum amount of protein 
which is essential for existence, and secondly, what is the 
amount which is desirable in order to maintain the body in 
the highest degree of efficiency ? The first question we can 
answer upon the evidence before us, but there is considerable 
disagreement on the second. Provided that a certain minimum 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 139 

of protein be supplied, and sufficient caloric value, an active life 
can be supported upon very varying proportions of the three 
elements. This fact must be clearly borne in mind. Any experi- 
ments showing that men can live and work for long periods upon 
this diet or upon that, provided that the constituents satisfy the 
above fundamental condition, show us nothing new. Men have 
existed in the past, in the vicissitudes of wealth and poverty, 
freedom and captivity, upon dietaries as varied in both quantity 
and quality as will ever be designed by experimentalists. The 
main object of our inquiry must therefore be not to determine 
upon how much or how little a man can live, but what are 
the proportions of the food-stuffs upon which he can live with 
the greatest efficiency and economy. 

The amount of protein. The amount of protein regarded by 
Voit as a standard was 118 grammes, or just over 4 oz., for a 
man of 11 stone taking 2,800 calories a day. This is T7 grammes 
of protein per kilogramme. This figure, designated as Voit's 
standard, was arrived at by striking the average of a large number 
of observations, and may be taken to represent the diet chosen by 
a European of 11 stone doing a moderate amount of muscular 
work. Many people living sedentary lives take less both of 
protein and of caloric value, and of course those of smaller 
weight require a correspondingly smaller ration, other circum- 
stances being equal. This may be illustrated by the following 
diet which was taken by a man just under 9 stone, and contains 
90 grammes of protein, 67 of fat, and 385 of carbo-hydrate, total 
2,300 calories : 

Bread, 19 oz. ; meat, 4 oz. ; potatoes, 8 oz. ; milk, a pint ; 
butter, 1 oz. : milk pudding, 4 oz. ; tea, 1 pint. 

This is as liberal in protein as Voit's diet for an 1 1 stone man 
being T6 grammes to each kilogramme. The pint of milk could 
be replaced by 3 oz. of cheese, which would slightly raise the 
proportions of fat and protein. Those living more active lives 
and those of greater weight commonly take a larger proportion 
of protein as well as of caloric value. A diet of 3,500 calories 
and containing about 130 grammes of protein is given by : 

Bread, 16 oz. ; beef, 10 oz. ; potatoes, 16 oz. ; milk, a pint ; 
butter, 1 oz. ; oatmeal, 4 oz. ; sugar, 3 oz. 



140 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



In all dietary studies which include any large number of 
people we find that the quantity of protein amounts to 100 
grammes or more. It is seldom below 90 grammes per day for 
an adult. 

The following table of diets, arranged in order of protein 
value, will illustrate this point. 

COMPILED BY BENEDICT AND ATWATER FROM VARIOUS SOURCES 





Protein in 
Food. 


Caloric Value 
of Food. 


English weavers 


151 


3,475 


Chinese laundrymen, United States .... 


135 


3,480 


Tailor, England 


131 


3,053 


Professor, Japan 


123 


2,343 


Printer, United States 


117 


3,554 


Physician, Germany 


111 


2,511 


Students, men 


110 


3,496 


Machinists, United States 


102 


3,470 


Business men, United States 


93 


2,947 


Students, Japan 


94 


2,712 


Physicians, Franco 


92 


1,851 


Students, women 


85 


2,696 


Poor families in New York 


75 


2,087 


Sewing girl, London, earning 3s. 9d. per week . 


53 


1,820 


Factory girl, Leipsic, earning 5s. per week . 


52 


1,940 



It appears from these figures that in Europe, Asia, and America 
those who are free to choose their diet choose such food as shall 
include about 100 grammes of protein. It is uncommon to find 
less than 90 grammes taken except in conditions of poverty. 
Foods containing protein such as meat, eggs, milk and cheese are 
dearer than foods which contain a greater proportion of carbo- 
hydrate such as bread, potatoes, rice, and macaroni, and accord- 
ingly in the lowest social strata we find that there is, perforce, a 
scarcity of protein. It has, however, been urged with consider- 
able force and by some whose opinions are worthy of great 
attention that it is not necessary or desirable for man to take 
so large a quantity of protein as 100 grammes a day. This 
view is founded upon experimental considerations which we 
may now examine. 

If a man receives a diet the caloric value of which is sufficient 
but which contains little or no protein, for instance, a diet of 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK OX DIET 141 



starch matter with cream, the excretion of nitrogen in hia urine 
sinks to a low figure, even to 3 grammes a day. This nitrogen is 
in the form of urea, creatinin, uric acid and ammonia, with small 
quantities of other bodies, and may be regarded as representing 
the lowest possible level of nitrogenous metabolism resulting 
from wear and tear of tissue. The patient is not in nitrogenous 
equilibrium because little or no protein is being given. If from 
30 to 40 grammes of protein (1 to 1 J oz.) be added to the diet, the 
caloric value being still made up by fat and carbo-hydrate, the 
individual can be kept in nitrogenous equilibrium excreting 4 
to 5 grammes of nitrogen in the urine. If a further quantity of 
protein be given the nitrogen of this is excreted in the urine in a 
very short time. This does not necessarily mean that the extra 
protein has been used at once, but implies that the nitrogenous 
part of the protein molecule was not wanted and was therefore 
excreted rapidly. This nitrogen is turned out as urea ; the 
residue of the extra protein is retained in the body for oxidation, 
and is referred to as the non-nitrogenous moiety. It is suggested 
as a deduction from these facts that 40 or 50 grammes of protein 
is all that is needed, and that when more is taken the rapid 
excretion of its nitrogen shows that it was in excess, and that 
its non-nitrogenous moiety is of no more advantage to the 
organism than fat or carbo-hydrate furnishing an equivalent 
amount of energy. These experiments were carried out by 
Folin. Many observations show that it is possible to live upon a 
diet containing only 40-50 grammes of protein. The following 
table from Jagerroos (Skand. Arch. /. Physiol. 13.375, 1902) sum- 
marizes a few of them. 





Weight. 


Food. 


Protein 


Calorie* 














Kilos. 


Nitrogen. 


Protein. 


Kilogramme. 


Kilogramme* 


Hirschfeld 


73 


7-44 


46 0-63 


47 


Kumagawa . 


48 


8-25 


55 1-14 


54 


Klemperer . 


64 


5-28 


33 0-52 


28 


> ... 


65-5 


5-28 


33 0-50 


27 


Peschel .... 


74-5 


5-88 


37 0-49 


46 


Siven 


58-9 


4-52 


28 


0-48 


41 


Voit's standard . 


70 


18-9 


118 


1-7 


40 



142 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

For short periods still greater reductions can be sustained, but 
since we know that a man can live for a few days on a diet con- 
taining no protein at all, this is of no importance to our present 
inquiry. 

The most thorough series of experiments upon a low protein 
diet has been made by Chittenden, who showed that a number 
of men of varying occupations and social position were able to 
live efficiently and carry out their ordinary work on a diet con- 
taining about 50 grammes of protein per day, which is - 7 grammes 
per kilo for a man of 11 stone and '9 for a man of 9 stone. These 
observations were made upon scientific men, soldiers working in a 
gymnasium, and students practising athletics. The latter were 
for five months in nitrogenous equilibrium upon a diet containing 
from 44 to 56 grammes of protein. Chittenden himself took 
remarkably small quantities of food and protein. One diet, for 
instance, consisted of : 

Milk, 2 oz. ; cream, 5 oz. ; sugar, 1 oz. ; biscuit, 3 oz. ; bread, 
2| oz. ; butter, oz. ; meat pie, 7J oz. 

The conditions of the experiment must receive attention. The 
subjects were living quiet lives with regular work, sleep and food. 
The work was that to which they were accustomed and was per- 
formed at set times and rarely, if ever, to fatigue, and they were 
led to take a personal interest in the experiment. All these con- 
ditions, which apply also to most of the earlier experiments on 
this subject quoted above, are favourable to a minimal expendi- 
ture. Similar values have been found in a vegetarian married 
couple whose metabolism was investigated by Caspari and Glsess- 
ner. The protein in the food varied from 33 to 49 grammes per 
day. Hamill and Schryver found that a number of scientific 
men in London excreted about 9' 6 grammes of nitrogen a day, 
equivalent to an intake of about 70 grammes of protein, a figure 
higher than those we have been dealing with, but lower than the 
Voit standard. Such results as these call for serious considera- 
tion. Voit set up a standard based upon experience gathered 
from those free to choose their own diet, of 1*4 to T7 grammes of 
protein to a kilogramme for an adult. The experiments detailed 
above give a standard of '7 to '9 grammes, roughly about half. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 143 

It is clear that on the one hand the theoretical reasoning 
from the fact that an excess of nitrogen is so rapidly eliminated 
from the body, and on the other the result of experiment, show 
that about 50 grammes of protein is sufficient to supply the 
needs of a man of average weight and to keep him in health 
for a considerable period of time. It is claimed by some, for 
instance, by Chittenden, that health is improved by such a 
diet, and the view has been put forward that a larger amount 
of protein is harmful, and involves the doing of an unnecessary 
amount of work by the kidney in excreting the extra nitrogen, 
and may cause disease. If this is so we ought to reduce by more 
than half the quantities of meat and eggs usually taken. The 
protein contained in the remainder and in the bread, puddings, 
and other foods would be ample to supply all our requirements. 
Such a course would also effect a considerable reduction in the 
cost of food. 

No doubt a great many people eat meat to excess. That 
is, however, outside the question which is, is 100 grammes of 
protein per day, being that contained in a moderate English 
dietary, of benefit or the reverse ? 

In discussing this question we may first point out that it 
cannot be said to be proved that any benefit to health results 
from a low protein diet. Most physicians know some who have 
tried it and given it up, having thought after some months that 
they were less energetic than before, and were more liable to 
contract colds and other infections, and others who have con- 
vinced themselves that they are better on it, but have not con- 
vinced those who knew them on the old regime and on the new. 
Chittenden's subjects have many of them returned to an ordinary 
diet. This may be regarded by some as a backsliding, a moral 
delinquency, a yielding to the pleasures of the palate, but by 
others as evidence that a larger protein ration was more satis- 
factory to them. The influence of suggestion must also be 
borne in mind in considering the above figures. If a man knows 
that his nitrogenous metabolism is being investigated he is 
likely to unconsciously limit his protein food. The fact that 
most of the nitrogen of a liberal protein diet is rapidly eliminated 
is certainly of great interest, but cannot in the present state of 



144 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

our knowledge be said to prove that the protein which contained 
it was redundant. The suggestion that the excretion of this 
nitrogen is harmful to the healthy kidney is totally without 
foundation. Carnivorous animals live entirely on protein and 
fat, and no evidence has been produced to show that their kidneys 
suffer on this account. It has been said by Chittenden that 
the universal choice of a liberal protein diet by man cannot 
be taken as evidence that that food-stuff is beneficial in quantity 
any more than the very general taste for alcohol proves jt to 
be a desirable food-stuff. This analogy is a false one. Alcohol, 
though physiologically capable of acting as a food-stuff, is not 
at all comparable to either protein, carbo-hydrate, or fat. Before 
it can be classed with them, it must be shown that a man or 
animal can exist for long periods of time, in health, while drawing 
a large proportion of his energy needs, say a third, from alcohol. 
This has been shown for protein innumerable times. 

We may now consider some experiments on animals bearing 
on this question. Rosenheim, in 1891 and in 1893, found 
that dogs fed upon meat, fat and rice in which the proportion 
of meat, 2 grammes of protein per kilo with a total food 
value of 1 10 calories per kilo, was low for this animal, suffered 
from digestive disturbances, such as vomiting and poor appetite, 
which were relieved by giving meat, and from an incom- 
plete absorption of the food, and, after several months, died in an 
apathetic condition. Bad results had previously been obtained 
by Munk in dogs fed upon a low protein diet. Hagemann 
also reported similar observations. Jagerroos believes that the 
deductions made from these experiments are not valid, and 
kept two bitches 6J months upon a low protein diet without 
any disturbances of digestion. He states that T2 grammes of 
protein per kilogramme is sufficient quantity for these animals ; 
dogs, as we have seen above, require mere food per kilo than 
man, on account of their greater relative surface, and this must 
be allowed for in comparing the figures. Jageroos' two bitches, 
however, succumbed rapidly to an acute infection contracted 
after the premature delivery of one of them, a fact which 
may have no bearing on the point at issue, but does not 
inspire confidence as to their power of resistance to disease. All 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIETS 145 

these experiments on dogs are open to the criticism that the 
dog is a carnivorous animal and cannot be expected to do well 
on a diet so far removed from its natural habit. The pig, being 
like man omnivorous, is free from this objection. Benedict, 
in his valuable paper on this subject, quotes the following experi- 
ments. Shutt found that when the pig is fed upon Indian 
corn, which contains a low proportion of protein, the pork is of 
inferior quality, which is improved by the addition of skim 
milk, or beans. Pork butchers find that the intestines of hogs 
fed on low protein rations tear more easily when the carcass is 
dressed. A bad quality of pork is also produced if too much 
protein be given. Skinner also showed that in pigs a low protein 
diet of corn-meal caused impairment of the digestive capacity, 
especially if continued for a long time. The diet resulted in 
" poor appetites, light bone, deficient development in 
valuable portions of the carcass and a general state of unthrift, 
as shown by the hair, skin, and hungry look of the animals." 
The addition of a small amount of protein to the food resulted 
in a natural growth, and a healthy condition. In herbivorous 
animals, Benedict goes on to say, we should expect less marked 
effects, as they are accustomed to a low protein diet. 
Haecker, however, has found that cows do not thrive on 
a diet poor in protein. Ten cows were fed on their natural 
food and ten others on a diet containing less protein : for two 
years very little' difference could be observed, but in the latter 
part of the third winter the second group of animals became thin 
and their coats harsh, and in two months it became necessary to 
increase the protein. These observations are not directly trans- 
ferable to man, but are of considerable importance. Especially 
should it be marked that the effect of a low protein diet on pigs 
and cows was a very gradual one, but one which, nevertheless, 
led in time to a general deterioration of health. They do not 
give us information as to the level of daily protein intake suitable 
for a man, but they teach definitely, first, that in case of doubt 
it is better to be above that level than below it, and secondly, 
that experiments on man to be conclusive and show that men can 
live and work on a low protein diet as well as on the usual one, 
should last for several years, since in animals the reduction of 

10 



146 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the protein in the diet below that to which they are accustomed 
is harmful, if continued over a sufficiently long period, which in 
the case of cows is two or three years. 

The experiments upon man show that men can live in health 
for several months and do routine work on a diet containing 
about 50 grammes of protein per day, or half the usual quantity. 
It is not shown that this diet is advantageous, or that it would 
do no harm taken permanently. 

We have now to consider whether as much work can be 
done upon a low protein diet as upon a more plentiful supply. 
We have seen that muscular activity involves the using up of 
energy, and that if the work of any given individual be increased, 
he will require more food. Should this extra food contain pro- 
tein ? Or will the addition of carbo-hydrate and fat meet all the 
needs of a man subjected to severe exertion ? Physiological 
experiment has shown that when energy is used in the contraction 
of muscle there is not a corresponding breakdown of protein 
material, for the nitrogen in the urine is only increased to a 
slight extent. For example, one of Atwater's subjects did in a 
day external work equivalent to 543 calories. This would neces- 
sitate the using up of probably at least 2,000 calories. The 
excretion of nitrogen, however, was practically unaffected. The 
energy for this work was therefore furnished by the oxidation 
of non-nitrogenous material, presumably carbo-hydrate or fat. 
It would therefore appear that when severe work has to be 
done the addition of carbo-hydrate or fat is all that is necessary. 

It is not safe, however, in the present condition of our 
knowledge, to take this as proven, for we are faced with the 
fact that those doing really heavy and continuous work are usu- 
ally found to take a diet which not only is high in caloric value, 
but is also rich in protein. We are not now referring to feats 
of strength or athletic tests which may be done at the tem- 
porary expense of the tissues, which afterwards recuperate, 
or to such work as that of Chittenden's soldiers or athletes, 
whose every exertion would be followed by an appropriate rest, 
and whose muscles would arrive at a state of proficiency in which 
they may be supposed to work with a minimum of waste and 
damage to their cells ; but to work such as that done by labourers, 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 147 



who are toiling daily to the point of fatigue and exercising various 
groups of muscles in all kinds of movements. The table already 
given on p. 135 shows the proportion of protein taken by such 
workers. These and other results are summarised by Benedict 
as follows : 



Subjects. 


Protein in 
Food. 


Caloric 
Value. 


People doing severe muscular work, lumbermen, 


175 


5,500 


People doing ordinary muscular work, carpenters, 
labourers, etc 


115 


3,300 


People doing light muscular work, business men, 
etc 


100 


2,700 









An interesting remark on this point is made by Darwin in The 
Voyage of a Naturalist round the World. He visited the Chilian 
copper mines, where at that time the ore was carried up a 450 
foot shaft in loads of 200 Ibs. at a time, by men who climbed 
up notched tree trunks placed zigzag in the sides of the shaft. 
The men -were pale, and some of them with but little muscular 
development. They were fed on beans and bread, and them- 
selves preferred bread which was in that country a luxury, but 
the masters, says Darwin, " finding that they cannot work 
so hard upon this, treat them like horses and make them eat the 
beans." In beans about 20 per cent of the energy is in the form 
of protein, in bread 9 to 13 per cent. Livingstone found in Cen- 
tral Africa that the grain-eating tribes could not endure fatigue 
so well as beef-eaters, who scorned " the idea of ever being tired." 
Carnivorous animals are capable of greater efforts and have more 
courage than the herbivorous. Irving Fisher, however, claims 
that a diet on the Chittenden scale is favourable to endurance, 
as measured by such actions as holding the arms horizontally as 
long as possible, or raising and lowering a dumb-bell. Observations 
were made upon nine students three times in the coarse of five 
months. During this time the protein was gradually reduced, 
but not so low as in Chittenden's experiments. The endurance 
was found to be much greater at the end than at the beginning 
of this period. The strength was, however, less, the grip of the 



148 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

right hand, for instance, being weaker at the end of the period 
in seven out of the nine men. No control experiments on other 
students are given. The loss of strength and loss of weight 
which these students suffered was attributed to overstudy, but 
the increase of endurance to tke food. These considerations 
do not inspire confidence in the diet. Feats of endurance such 
as long walks have been done upon a vegetarian diet, but this 
is not necessarily deficient in protein. The great and undoubted 
increase in endurance as well as in mettle of a horse fed on beans or 
oats, as compared to one fed on grass or on hay seems to point 
to an opposite conclusion, namely that the increase of protein is 
beneficial to prolonged muscular exertion. Such horses can not 
only go more quickly, but can go much further than those on the 
low protein dietary, and horses fed on hay have more staying 
power if the hay have plenty of seed in it, which means more 
protein. Professor Dunstan, of the Wye Agricultural College, 
has kindly informed the writer that beans contain 23 per cent 
of digestible protein, oats 9 per cent, good hay (that is with 
plentiful seed in it) 7'4, and poor hay 3'4 per cent. 

We may sum up the relation of protein to activity by saying 
that frhe bulk of the calorie value required for muscular work 
should be supplied by carbo-hydrate or fat, but that it 
is an advantage to also increase the protein in the food, and 
that a diet containing a fair amount of protein is likely to be 
favourable to an energetic existence. Since the actual energy 
for the contraction of muscle is supplied by non-nitrogenous 
material, we may suppose that a muscle can work more efficiently 
when the tissue lymph surrounding it is rich in protein molecules, 
or, again, the hypothesis may be put forward that it is an advan- 
tage to the body to have some of its non-nitrogenous oxidizable 
material derived from protein, the nitrogen of which may have 
been previously excreted. 

We have considered the problem of the proportion of pro- 
tein in the daily diet at some length on account of its great 
importance. The question must now be asked, Does a careful 
consideration of the experimental evidence lead to the con- 
clusion that a reduction in this constituent of the food is desir- 
able ? Are the observations detailed above sufficiently con- 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 149 

vincing to justify us in regarding the consumption of protein 
by the average man as excessive or still more as harmful ? It 
must be remembered that the dietetic habits of mankind are 
the result of a process which has been going on for ages ; when, 
therefore, we find that both progressive nations and successful 
individuals take a fair proportion of protein, we must treat 
this fruit of accumulated experience with respect. The old idea 
that protein was the food par excellence, and that the more of it 
that was taken the better, has been succeeded by a more moderate 
and scientific view. In the opinion of the writer we shall be 
acting wrongly if we now go to the other extreme and adopt 
dietary standards in which the amount of protein is so low 
as to lie close to the physiological limit. Facts have been adduced 
above to show that such a course is not without danger to 
the individual and the nation. 

A great excess of protein is not readily tolerated. A man 
cannot, as has been mentioned in a former chapter, exist in a 
natural state without a supply of carbo-hydrate in his food. The 
quantity of protein necessary to supply his caloric needs, if no 
other food be taken, is intolerable to the digestive system, and 
therefore a protein diet such as the Salisbury diet, is not exclusive 
of other foods for any length of time. Diaceturia and aceto- 
nuria occur, probably from the call on the body fat being so 
great that its oxidation is incomplete. The addition of fat to 
protein, without carbo-hydrate, will lessen the amount of protein 
required, but aggravates the acetonuria, whilst carbo-hydrate 
abolishes it. The amount of carbo-hydrate required is variable, 
but a small quantity, such as 70 grammes (2| oz.), is insufficient 
if much fat is being taken (Rosenfeld). In a diet containing 
plenty of carbo-hydrate as well as fat, a large quantity of protein 
can be dealt with, especially if severe work is being done ; as 
much, for instance, as 250 grammes a day has been found to 
be eaten by miners in Russia. Or in treatment by " forced 
feeding," in which small quantities of food are administered at 
frequent intervals, the amount may be as great. A patient 
observed by Hale White and the writer, took an average of 
243 grammes for thirty -eight days, with a maximum of 292 
grammes in a day. In diabetes still greater quantities are con- 



150 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

sumed in the effort to meet the caloric needs of the body, 
which is partially or completely unable to utilize carbo-hydrate. 
To the rule that protein and fat alone cannot maintain man in 
health without carbo-hydrate, there appears to be an exception 
in the case of dwellers in arctic regions who have became accus- 
tomed to such a diet. These are all extraordinary conditions. 
In ordinary life excess in the consumption of protein is harmful 
and leads to digestive disorders, as we should expect from the 
experimental evidence : it is also regarded as leading to arterio- 
sclerosis and chronic nephritis, though it is not often easy to dis- 
sociate this factor from others such as alcohol and bacillary toxins. 
In diseases of the kidney and liver, organs especially associated 
with the metabolism of nitrogen, it is obvious that particular care 
should be taken to avoid excess of protein. We may apply the 
results of the above-mentioned observations upon low protein 
to such cases, and prescribe a diet which shall include about 50 
grammes of protein (contained, for instance, in 2 pints of milk) ; 
care must be taken, however, that the caloric value of the food 
is made up with carbo-hydrate and fat. In acute nephritis a 
diet containing no protein may be given for three or four days. 

The form in which protein is taken is of importance. 
Experience shows that it is not advantageous to take more 
than about half the protein ration in the form of meat, and 
this applies with special force to those living sedentary lives. 

The amount of carbo-hydrate and fat. In a diet of 2,800 
calories per day, if 410 calories be furnished by 100 grammes of 
protein there remain 2,390 to be supplied by carbo-hydrate or 
fat, or both. 583 grammes of carbo-hydrate, or 257 of fat, would 
give this value. The proportion in which the two elements 
enter into the daily food is usually determined by the amount 
of fat which can be used. This may depend upon how much 
fat can be procured, for it is dearer than carbo-hydrate, or, 
supposing expense is not a matter of importance, upon how 
much can be borne by the digestive system. In ordinary diet- 
aries we find that the fat varies between 50 and 100 grammes ; 
100 grammes of fat will supply 930 calories which, with 410 
from protein, makes 1,340, leaving 1,460, which would be supplied 
by 356 of carbo-hydrate. In adults it does not seem of great 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 151 

importance whether there is much fat or not, provided that the 
heat value of the food is maintained. The most recent work 
shows that fat and carbo-hydrate are about equal in value, calorie 
for calorie, as protein sparers. If there is any difference it is 
in favour of carbo-hydrate. The advantage of a fair quantity 
of fat is that of its small bulk, since 1 gramme of it is equal in 
food value to 2- 27 grammes of carbo-hydrate. The ease with 
which a considerable quantity of food can be introduced into 
the body in such forms as butter, bacon, dripping and cream 
should always be borne in mind in prescribing a diet for a 
convalescent patient who is not putting on weight satisfactorily. 
Under special circumstances much larger quantities of fat than 
100 grammes may be taken, for instance, with severe labour 365 
grammes (with r,150 of carbo-hydrate) (see the table on p. 135). In 
forced feeding, in the diet under the writer's observation mentioned 
above, an average of 250 grammes of fat per day was taken for 
38 days, with a maximum of 31 1 grammes in one day. In children, 
fat cannot be entirely replaced by carbo-hydrate without harm 
resulting. The maldevelopment of rickets is by many believed 
to be chiefly due to a deficiency of fat in the food. Whether 
or not this is the main factor, it is certain that great improve- 
ment follows the administration of fat in the form of good milk, 
cod liver oil or dripping. 

The table on p. 126 shows the forms in which fat and carbo- 
hydrate are taken in ordinary foods. 



STANDARD DIETS 

The consideration of the principles upon which diets are 
constructed has led us to the following proportions of food- 
stuffs for a man of 1 1 stone of moderate activity : 

Protein .... 100 grammes equals 410 calories. 
Fat .... 100 930 

Carbo-hydrate. . . 360 1,480 

Total heat value equals .... 2,820 

In this 14 per cent of the heat value is derived from protein, 
33 per cent from fat, and 53 per cent from carbo-hydrate. It 
supplies 40 calories and 1*4 grammes of protein per kilogramme. 



152 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

1. This is almost exactly given by : 

Bread, 1 Ib. ; meat, 4 oz. ; eggs, 4 oz. (two small ones) ; cheese, 
2 oz. ; potatoes, 1 Ib. ; butter (or other fat), 2 oz. ; milk, J pint ; 
sugar, \ oz. ; tea, coffee. 

which works out to Protein, 99 ; fat, 97 ; carbo-hydrate, 362. 

2. For a man or woman of 9 stone an adequate supply 
would be : 

Bread, 12 oz. ; meat, 6 oz. ; potatoes, \ Ib. ; butter, 1 oz. ; milk, 
1J pints ; sugar, 1 oz. ; milk pudding, 8 oz. ; soup, a pint. 

This is the " ordinary " diet at St. George's Hospital, and 
contains : 

Protein, 90 ; fat, 75 ; carbo-hydrate, 330 ; calories, 2,400 ; 

-giving 40 calories and T5 grammes of protein per kilogramme. 

3. A similar diet actually taken by a man of 9 stone has 
been given above and may be repeated here. 

Bread, 19 oz. ; meat, 4 oz. ; potatoes, 8 oz. ; butter, 1 oz. ; 
milk, 1 pint ; milk pudding, 4 oz. ; tea, a pint. 

This contains : 

Protein, 90 ; fat, 67 ; carbo-hydrate, 385 ; calories, 2,300 ; 

and gives 40 calories and r6gramm.es of protein per kilogramme. 

4. The following diet was that taken by the French soldiers 
in the trenches during the siege of Paris (1870-71) (Gautier). 

Bread, 9 oz. ; meat, 6J oz. ; rice, 2 oz. ; biscuit, 9 oz. ; fat, 
-f oz. ; coffee, 2 oz. ; sugar, \\ oz. ; wine and brandy equivalent 
to 3J oz. of carbo-hydrate. 

This contains : 

Protein, 83 ; fat, 32 ; carbo-hydrate, 457 ; calories, 2,510 ; 

and gives for a man of 10 stone 40 calories and T5 grammes of 
protein per kilogramme. 

This diet, owing to the scarcity of food, was lower in protein 
and fat than that taken by hard workers, and finds its place 
among the diets for sedentary occupations. The soldiers suffered 
a little from hunger, but were generally in good health, although 
the winter was a cold one. 

The diets of those doing muscular work show a considerable 
increase, especially in protein. We may take as an example 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK OX DIET 153 



the ordinary diet in the French Army in order to compare it 
with the last example. 

Bread, 1 Ib. 10 oz., or biscuit bread, 1 Ib. 9 oz. ; or biscuit, 1 
Ib. 5 oz. ; meat, 14 oz., or preserved meat, 7 oz. ; dried vegetables 
or rice, 2 oz. ; lard, 1 oz. ; sugar, | oz. ; coffee, oz. ; salt, j oz. 

This contains : 

Protein, 129 ; fat, 69 ; carbo-hydrate, 440 ; calories, 2,956. 

For a man of 10 stone this is 46 calories and 2 grammes of 
protein per kilogramme. For a man of 11 stone the figures 
are 42 and 1*8 respectively. 

5. Ration of the British Army in the Crimea (from Gautier). 

Bread, 24 oz. ; meat, 17 oz. ; rice, 2 oz. ; sugar, 2 oz. ; coffee, 
1 oz. ; tea, J oz. ; rum, the equivalent of oz. of carbo-hydrate, 
lemon juice, salt and pepper. 

This contains : 

Protein, 154 ; fat, 31 ; carbo-hydrate, 457 ; calories, 2,793 ; 

and for a man of 11 stone gives 40 calories and 2*2 grammes 
of protein per kilogramme. This ration was much lower in 
caloric value than is desirable for men undergoing severe exertion, 
and was especially deficient in fat. 

The caloric value of modern war rations is much greater and 
has already been given on p. 137. 

Various dietary studies of workmen doing moderately severe 
work have given the following results : 





Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Calories 


Author. 


English labourer .... 


184 


71 


570 


3,655 


Smith & 
Plavfair 


,, blacksmith 
German farm labourer 


176 
143 


71 
108 


666 4,007 
788 4,696 


Playfair 
Ranke 


French farm labourer 


149 


79 


830 4,560 , 


Gautier 



Some studies of the diet of those doing especially severe work 
have already been referred to on p. 135. 

In conclusion, we may adopt Atwater's standards as em- 
bodying the results of modern investigations into the diet of 
adults. 



154 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



Protein. Calories. 



Woman with light muscular exercise . . . . I 90 2,400 

Woman with moderate muscular work ... I 100 2,700 

Man without muscular work 100 2,70) 

Man with light muscular work 112 3,000 

Man with moderate muscular work . . . . 125 3,500 

Man with hard muscular work I 150 4,500 



CERTAIN CONDITIONS WHICH INFLUENCE THE DIET 

Childhood and youth. The large amount of food required 
by infants relatively to their weight has been referred to above 
in the section dealing with the relation between diet and the 
extent of surface and rate of growth and some of the experi- 
mental data discussed. The proportions of the three food 
elements which are required may be taken to be those which are 
provided by nature in the mother's milk. 

As the infant grows into the child, although the rate of growth 
becomes less, there is a much greater expenditure of energy 
in the muscles owing to the constant activity of a child, and 
the supply of food per kilogramme requires to be kept at 
about the same level. A boy of four weighing 2 stone 4 lb., 
just recovered from a slight surgical operation, who was kept 
in the hospital for a time, and whose food was weighed, was 
found to be taking 121 calories per kilogramme, which was 
made up as follows : 

Bread, 8 oz. ; butter, 1 oz. ; eggs, 6 oz. (3 small eggs) ; milk, a 
pint ; cream, 1 oz. ; milk pudding, S oz. ; jam, 1 oz. 

This contains : 

Protein, 63; fat, 72; carbo-hydrate, 202; calories, 1,7" : 

and gives 4' 3 grammes of protein per kilogramme. 

A boy suffering from amyotonia congenita of nearly the 
same age and weight took a similar diet containing 110 calories 
and 4 grammes of protein per kilogramme. In this case mus- 
cular activity was almost at a minimum, but the boy was very 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 155 

thin, and a plentiful diet would be required to make up for 
the loss of heat] from his relatively greater surface. 

The amount of protein per kilogramme is much greater than 
is taken by adults, but it is difficult to compare the figures, 
and it is clearer to express the percentage of the total heat 
value of the diet which is derived from protein ; this is 15 per 
cent in each of these boys, which is a little above the propor- 
tion of protein in our standard diet for adults. About 40 per 
cent of the total heat value was furnished by fat. It would be 
obviously unwise at a period of rapid growth to limit the protein 
and, as a general rule, it may be said that the proportion 
both of protein and fat in the food of children should be 
kept up. 

Children of school age again take a high proportion of calo- 
ries. The writer is indebted to the Governor of the Duke of 
York's Royal Military School and to Major Dyke for parti- 
culars of the food taken by 540 boys in that school for a week. 
The average age was 12A years ; the boys were weighed during 
the period, and their average weight was 5 stone 4' 85 Ib. The 
time of year was June. In this week the food supplied was 
equivalent to 94 calories per kilogramme ; 13 per cent of the 
total energy was derived from protein, and about 8 per cent 
from fat. The ration is therefore a liberal one, but would be 
improved by a larger proportion of fat. 

Mr. C. H. S. Frankau, F.R.C.S., has kindly furnished par- 
ticulars of the dietary of an orphan school near London. 
The food taken by 401 children of the average age of 11 
years and 10 months, of whom 260 were boys and 141 girls, 
amounted to 2,300 calories for each child per day. If the 
average weight be assumed to be about 5 stone, this is 
equivalent to 73 calories per kilogramme. The quantity of 
food is therefore less than is provided in the Duke of 
York's School. Probably the children in the latter school take 
more exercise, especially as they are all boys. The proportion 
of the total energy derived from protein, 15 per cent, is about 
the same, whilst that from fat, 23 per cent, is higher than in 
the Duke of York's school. 

In general terms it has been calculated that a child about 



156 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

8 years old requires half the food of an adult, and that a child 
of 16 years old will eat nearly, or quite as much, as an adult of 
ordinary weight and of sedentary occupation. 

Influence of sex. It is not certain that sex has any direct 
influence upon the amount of food needed. Women require 
less than men because they are commonly smaller, have a 
larger proportion of fat than the average man, and usually do 
less muscular work. When these points have been allowed 
for, there does not seem to be much difference. In a healthy 
woman in bed in hospital awaiting an operation the amount 
of food taken, reckoned as calories per kilogramme, was about 
the same as in men under similar circumstances. The diet 
in pregnancy should be liberal, but need not be excessive. It has 
been calculated that the average daily deposition of material in 
the foetus during the last three months of pregnancy is not more 
than about 3 grammes of protein and 3J of fat, with *7 grammes of 
salts. Material is also required for the development of the 
uterus and mammae ; and there is often a general deposition 
of fat at this time, to be called on later to meet the demands 
of lactation. The oxidation processes are increased during preg- 
nancy because the weight is increasing ; the excretion of carbo- 
dioxide per kilogramme remains at the same level. 

Observations on animals show that the loss of protein in 
parturition is often greater than the gain during pregnancy : 
that is to say, the mother does not store as much protein 
from the food as is laid down in the foetus and, therefore, 
supplies some to the foetus from her own tissues. This was 
not invariably the case, however, and it is possible for the 
mother with a sufficient supply of suitable food to assimilate 
and retain sufficient protein for the foetus without any drain 
upon her own tissues. During and after delivery there is a 
considerable loss of protein, but with a rich diet nitrogenous 
equilibrium may be attained towards the end of the first week 
of the puerperium. 

During lactation from 500 to 1,000 calories is given out 
from the body daily in the form of milk, and an equivalent 
amount of food should be added to the ordinary diet. It 
has been shown in animals that the mother may retain sufficient 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK OX DIET 157 

protein from the food to make up that lost in the milk. The 
diet should include abundance of protein and fat. 

Training. It is probable that the question of diet in^train- 
ing has been considerably over-discussed. Certain it is that 
diet will not produce muscular efficiency, whereas regular grad- 
uated exercise upon an ordinary sufficient diet may do so. The 
constant practising of any series of movements such as running, 
walking, rowing, or bicycling is likely in itself to lead to a more 
economical performance of the mechanical work involved, so that 
the store of energy available will last a longer time. The heart 
and circulation are of prime importance, for the smooth working 
of a muscle is dependent upon the removal of waste products 
by the blood, and upon the regular absorption of sufficient oxygen 
and elimination of carbon dioxide by the lungs. The enforced 
rests, the regular meals, and the general discipline of a period 
of training is also of very great value in bringing the neuro- 
muscular system into a perfectly healthy condition. The diet 
in training must be an easily digested one, for indigestion in 
any form is fatal to success. This is one reason why a large 
amount of protein is preferred by athletes. Carbo-hydrate 
foods are often bulky, though not necessarily so, and fatty 
foods in excess are liable to be borne badly by the stomach. 
It appears also from the most recent work that protein is not 
converted into fat, and one object of the athlete is to have as 
little fat in his body as possible. The amount of food should 
always be increased : this is found to be so in dietary studies 
on training, with the exception of those of Chittenden, and 
according to Benedict, the athletes observed by Chittenden 
have returned to their former and more usual diet. We have 
already considered the relation of food to muscular work, and 
have given on p. 135 the diets taken by football men, rowing 
men, and professional bicyclists. 

A number of experimental studies (Mosso, Harley) has 
shown that sugar is of great value when muscular exertion is 
severe. Locke has demonstrated the beneficial effect which 
dextrose has upon the perfused heart ; when it is added 
to the perfusing solution the force of contraction is favourably 
influenced within a few seconds. In training, sugar should be 



158 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

freely taken, either dissolved in fluids such as cocoa, or in such 
a form as chocolate. 

During the performance of prolonged feats of muscular 
exertion the diet should be such as to call for a minimum of 
digestive work on the part of the alimentary canal ; fluid, easily 
assimilable foods will be readily absorbed and rapidly available 
for use. In his six days' ride, the bicyclist Miller, referred to on 
page 135, took his food hi the form of eggs, milk, meat extract, 
boiled rice, boiled oatmeal, Charlotte russe, custard pie, tomato 
soup, sugar, apples and oranges, with a little bread on one day. 

Intellectual work has not been found to have any demon- 
strable quantitative effect upon the metabolism of man : the 
energy of cerebral activity is not measurable by the most 
accurate calori metric methods. A man doing hard mental 
work in Atwater's respiration chamber gave the same results 
as when he was resting. Neither has mental activity been found 
in health to produce any qualitative change in the metabolism. 
The diet of such workers does not, therefore, need special 
consideration in this chapter. 

In advanced age the amount of food required is less than 
in the more active years of life. Various studies of the meta- 
bolism in old people have shown a food value of 21-38 calories 
per kilogramme (von Noorden). The proportion of protein 
varied from *7 to 2 grammes per kilogramme. The diet should 
be simple, and of a nature which can be properly masticated ; 
and the less digestible foods should be avoided. 



WATER 

The body is made up of about 60 per cent of water, about 
20 per cent of fat, and 40 per cent of dry substances. Water 
is, therefore, an essential constituent, and must be constantly 
supplied to replace that which is being lost. The chemical 
changes taking place in the tissues are reactions between dis- 
sociated molecules in a weak saline solution. Hence any con- 
siderable drying of the body would arrest all vital processes. 
When a man is deprived of food he is able to live for a con- 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 159 

siderable period upon his own tissues ; this is not the case 
with water, total deprivation of which can only be survived for a 
short time. Atwater and Benedict found that, upon an ordinary 
diet, an individual not doing muscular work took on an average 
about 4 pints of water a day in a 49 days' experiment ; this 
includes that taken in the solid food as well as in liquids. 

The elimination of water takes place in the urine and faeces, 
and from the skin and lungs. The tissues retain approxi- 
mately the same quantity in health, so that with a sufficient 
supply the amount of water lost is determined by the amount 
taken in : if enough water is not available to make up the 
minimal loss thirst arises. Variations in the loss of water are 
chiefly due to evaporation from the skin, for this is the means 
by which any excess of heat is dissipated, and the temperature 
kept constant. The amount of water in the urine, if the diet be 
the same, will vary inversely as the loss from the skin, and there- 
fore in hot weather the urine is scanty, and in winter abundant. 
The total loss of water from all sources is rather more than the 
quantity taken in the food, for the oxidation of the hydrogen 
of the solid food produces a half pint or more which must be 
eliminated. The average quantity evaporated from the skin and 
lungs in a day is about a pint and a half, two-thirds of which 
is given off from the skin ; this total increases very much with 
active movement and may be over half a pint in an hour, i.e. 
ten times as much as is lost in that time during rest. The 
fluid taken must therefore be greater when much work is being 
performed ; thus, in an individual working daily for 66 days 
the average intake of fluid (including that in the solid food) 
was found to be six and a half pints. The drinking of an in- 
creased quantity of water does not, apart from muscular exertion, 
lead to a greater evaporation from the skin, but the extra 
quantity appears in the urine, that is to say, other things being 
equal, water has a direct diuretic action. The evaporation 
from the skin is determined during rest by the needs of the 
regulation of heat and not by the amount of water taken in. 

The amount of water vapour in the atmosphere has an 
important bearing upon the loss of water from the skin and 
lungs, for it is obvious that in moist air evaporation is hindered 



160 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

or suppressed, and the loss of heat from the skin therefore limited. 
This might cause a rise of temperature, and must be remembered 
in prescribing a steam kettle for a febrile patient, especially 
upon a damp day. 

The nature of the diet has a considerable influence upon the 
amount of water passed out in the urine. If much protein 
is contained in the food the quantity of water excreted is in- 
creased and correspondingly more must be drunk. This is 
because the nitrogen of the protein is excreted in the urine in 
the form of urea, uric acid, and other bodies, and it involves 
less work to the kidney for these bodies to be passed out in a 
weak solution. On the contrary, a diet which is poor in protein 
will involve but little excretion of nitrogen, and the amount 
of urine will be considerably diminished. This may be exempli- 
fied by the following case. A patient in bed under the care of 
the writer, taking a mixed diet containing about 15 grammes 
of nitrogen, passed out 1,100-1,200 c.c. of urine a day. When 
placed upon a diet containing practically no protein, the. quantity 
of urine sank on the first day to 530 c.c., and on the second 
day to 350 c.c. and on the three following days was about 500 
c.c. On a vegetarian diet containing but little nitrogenous food 
less water will therefore be required than upon a diet containing 
plenty of meat. 

We may now consider what experimental evidence we have 
as to the effect of an increase or diminution of the amount of 
water supplied in health and in disease. 

The drinking of a large quantity of water by an ordinary 
man, not doing excessive work or living in a tropical climate, 
leads, as we have seen, to a considerable increase in the quantity 
of urine. This urine will be of low specific gravity, that is to 
say, the greater flow of water from the kidney is not accom- 
panied by a corresponding excretion of solids. There is, how- 
ever, some increase, for the total amount of nitrogen in the urine 
is raised. The amount of extra nitrogen in one day rarely exceeds 
1 gramme, and in a number of careful experiments has not been 
found to be greater than 2' 8 grammes. After a day or two, or 
at most a few days, the excretion of nitrogen returns to its 
ordinary level. Neumann found that about 6 grammes of 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 161 

nitrogen could be washed out in 9 days, but on returning to an 
ordinary quantity of fluid nitrogen was rapidly retained equivalent 
to that which had been eliminated. It appears, therefore, that 
although the flushing of the body with a large quantity of water 
washes^out temporarily a certain limited amount of nitrogenous 
matter, the metabolism of protein on the whole is unaffected. 
The drinking of much water does not affect the oxidation pro- 
cesses of the body, as shown by the excretion of carbon dioxide. 
The same is true of waters containing small quantities of salts. 
Hence the statements made in the advertisements of various 
watering places that their waters increase metabolism is not 
supported by exact observation. 

In fevers water should be supplied freely, with the object of 
replacing that in the perspiration or with the hope of promoting 
that secretion if it is deficient. Matzkevich observed a number 
of patients with typhoid fever to whom large quantities of water 
were given for four days at a time. During this period the 
amount of nitrogen in the urine was slightly increased, but not 
more than we have seen is the case in normal people. The 
copious draughts did not appear to have any influence on the 
temperature, pulse, or respiration. Gruzdiev also found an 
increase in the nitrogen in the urine when much water was 
drunk, in some cases amounting to several grammes. His 
experiments, again, only lasted four or five days at a time, 
and do not show whether it would be possible to continue to 
wash out nitrogenous material from the tissues in fever if the 
treatment were persisted in. Sollmann and Hoffmann's results 
indicate that the effect would fail after a few days as it does 
in health. They gave patients with typhoid fever 4 oz. of dis- 
tilled water every quarter of an hour for a great part of the day, 
the average for the twenty-four hours being nearly 9 pints, and 
found that the excretion of nitrogen and of chlorides was 
unaffected ; sweating was favoured, but the treatment was 
without obvious influence on the progress of the disease. In 
fevers there is reason to believe that bacterial toxins cause a 
breakdown of protein, and a good supply of water may assist in 
the elimination of these products. It is not, however, proved 
that there is any advantage in supplying such quantities of 

11 



162 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

fluid as were given in these cases amounting sometimes to 10 
pints in a day. In phthisis and pneumonia, Gruzdiev found 
only a slight increase in the nitrogen of the urine when much 
water was given, similar to that which occurs in health. In all 
the above experiments, the absorption of food was improved 
rather than diminished. 

The restriction of fluid is often used as a therapeutic means, 
especially in aneurism, nephritis, heart disease and obesity. 
In health, if fluid is entirely withdrawn, the body receives only 
that contained in the solid food, about four-fifths of a pint, and 
that derived from the oxidation of the hydrogen of the food 
or tissues, about half a pint ; the total may reach a pint and 
a half. The evaporation of water from the skin is controlled 
but that from the lungs goes on ; the quantity of urine falls to 
half a pint or less ; but in spite of the restriction of the loss 
of water from the skin and the kidneys, the total output is 
greater than the intake, and water is lost from the body. In 
" cures " by deprivation of water the tissue fluids are reduced 
by 6 to 8 per cent, and the blood serum has been found to lose 
over 10 per cent of its water. If the reduction became greater 
than this, we should expect harm to follow, for in animals 
a loss of much over 10 per cent of the total water is incom- 
patible with health. In such restriction cures the appetite is 
lessened : the absorption of food is normal. The oxidation 
processes as shown by the respiratory exchange are not affected ; 
nor, in animals, is the amount of fat in the body reduced. 
The experimental evidence is therefore against the statement 
that the oxidation of fat is favoured by the restriction of water. 
In obesity cures with limitation of fluid the reduction in weight 
is largely due to the loss of water. There is, however, 
also a loss of nitrogen in the urine, and this may. persist 
for a time after the intake of fluid is increased again to the 
normal. We may sum up by saying that the restriction of fluid 
causes a diminution in the total water in the body, with a corre- 
sponding " thickening " of the body fluids, a lessening of the 
appetite, and a loss of protein. 

The quantity of water which should be allowed in nephritis 
requires careful consideration, and has been the subject of many 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 163 

experiments. Dropsy may be due either to an inability of the 
kidney to pass out water, or to the retention of water by the 
tissues ; in kidney diseases the blood appears to contain an 
excess of non-protein nitrogenous and saline molecules, and, 
supposing the same to be the case in the tissues, water would 
be retained by osmotic attraction in greater quantity than 
normal. 

In acute nephritis drinking much water does not usually 
lead to diuresis, and the quantity taken should therefore be 
limited to that necessary to satisfy thirst. 

In parenchymatous nephritis experiments show varying 
results corresponding, no doubt, to different types of the disease. 
It has sometimes been found that an increase in the fluid is 
followed by a similar increase in the urine : in such cases it 
may be assumed that it is advisable not to restrict fluid. If, 
on the other hand, the quantity of urine is unaffected, any 
extra water taken in is likely, in the absence of free sweating, 
to increase oedema. 

In cases of chronic granular kidney there is usually a free 
secretion of urine. Bradford, and Ribbert, found the same to 
occur when the kidney substance was artificially reduced. We 
may regard this natural diuresis as advantageous to the kidney, 
for less work is involved in passing out the solids of the urine 
in a weak solution than in a strong one, and this being so it is 
undesirable to restrict fluid in this form of the disease, 
v. Noorden believes that the large amount of fluid dealt with is 
harmful to the circulation, and he limits the intake of water 
on this account. Dealing with much greater quantities of 
fluid does not, however, affect the circulation in diabetes, 
and it is probably more important to bear in mind the tendency 
to the accumulation of the non-protein nitrogenous and saline 
molecules in the blood in nephritis. We have already seen 
that restriction of fluid, unless very moderate, is likely to lead 
to a still greater increase in the solids of the blood and tissues, 
and that in animals there is a very definite limit to the degree 
of concentration which can be sustained without harm. This 
appears to be an indication that whenever the kidney can 
excrete water it should be encouraged to do so, with the 



164 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

object of washing out this material. Such a conclusion is sup- 
ported by the observations of Frey, that in diuresis produced 
by water, the osmotic concentration of the urine may sink below 
that of the blood. This would greatly favour excretion by the 
kidney. The estimation of the molecular bodies in the tissues 
and blood in nephritis offers considerable difficulties, which 
are not, however, insurmountable, and it is desirable that a 
larger number of analyses should be made. 

In the dropsy of heart disease the blood appears to be more 
watery than normal, but regains its proper composition when 
compensation is re-established. Although in circulatory 
failure the excretion of water from the kidney is diminished, 
this is not the cause of the oedema, which must be looked for 
in the conditions obtaining in the vessels of the affected tissues. 
Changes in the capillary walls probably have an important 
influence, especially in the peripheral parts of the circulation, 
for, the blood tending to stagnate in these regions, its oxygen 
is soon used up and the cells lining the capillary walls become 
insufficiently nourished, and fail to regulate the passage of 
both fluids and solids from blood to tissues and vice versa. It 
must be remembered that water is constantly being produced 
in the tissues, and it is only necessary to suppose that this water 
is not taken up by the blood vessels in order to explain the pro- 
duction of oedema. With an improvement in the heart's 
action, oedema is relieved from both sides ; the abnormally 
high venous blood pressure sinks to its proper level, whilst on 
the arterial side the pressure rises and the circulation through 
the kidney is increased. We should not expect these conditions 
to be closely related to the amount of water taken in heart- 
disease, and in experiments dealing with the supply of water 
it is often difficult to separate the results of the restriction of 
that supply from those of other treatment employed at the 
same time, such as rest and digitalis. The cause of the whole 
condition is the failure of the heart, and treatment must be 
directed primarily to that organ. The restriction of water 
will do no good of itself. Experiment shows that a moderate 
limitation aids the heart, but, according to Minkowski, it should 
be very gradually carried out, 2 pints being prescribed at 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 165 

first and reduced by a small amount daily, but not below a 
pint and a half. Thirst is lessened if no salt be allowed. 

In the treatment of aneurism, the restriction of fluid is 
intended to be carried to such a degree that the blood becomes 
inspissated. We have seen that the water in the blood may 
be reduced by as much as 10 per cent, but that any greater 
reduction than this is attended with risk. The sensation of 
thirst may usually be taken as a guide. Most patients will 
not suffer extreme deprivation for long, but in the case of a 
very determined subject the danger of causing an increase in 
the breakdown of body tissues and of general failure must be 
kept in mind. 



MINERAL SUBSTANCES 

A great deal of attention has been paid by experimentalists 
to the metabolism of inorganic salts. With the exception of 
the part played by sodium chloride in the causation of some 
forms of oedema, it cannot be said that clinical medicine has 
been enriched to any great extent by the enormous number 
of researches made on this subject. The effect of added 
salts upon the metabolism of the body as a whole is negli- 
gible. The foods commonly taken in this country contain 
a sufficiency of salts. The beneficial effects of the various and 
much vaunted mineral waters upon metabolism, effects which 
have often been supported by imperfect metabolic experiments, 
are mainly due to the regular life, judicious diet, and graduated 
exercise enforced at the establishments where these water cures 
are carried out, and to the relief of constipation. 

The body contains 100-140 grammes of sodium chloride, 
the proportion being greater in the blood than in the tissues ; 
this amount varies little in most diseases, and about half of 
the osmotic pressure of the blood is due to it. Probably not 
more than 3 or 4 grammes a day are needed, but the quantity 
taken in the food is generally much greater than this. If it 
be reduced, the secretion of salt in the urine will fall until equili- 
brium is established at a lower level. If no salt be taken, chlo- 
rides will still be excreted in the urine, so that there will be a 



166 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

loss from the tissues, which may amount to 15 per cent of the 
total amount in the body. When salt is again added to the food, 
this quantity is quickly regained. Constant vomiting or repeated 
washing out of the stomach may lead to a considerable loss of 
chloride in the form of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice. 
The restriction of salt in man leads to a loss of weight because 
the chlorides which continue to be passed out are accompanied 
by water. In this way the deprivation of salt may be said to 
cause diuresis. Large doses of salt produce diuresis directly, 
in health, because the flow of blood through the kidney is in- 
creased and salt is excreted together with water ; the tissues 
also contain more water, for the salt in them holds water by 
osmotic attraction. The quantity of water excreted in the 
urine is, however, greater than that retained by the tissues. 

In many cases of nephritis, the kidney does not excrete 
salt so easily as in health. A normal man will pass out 
any excess of salt in a day or two, but a nephritic may not 
do so for several days. This behaviour of the kidney is, 
however, not constant : the excretory powers for salt, as for 
water and nitrogen, vary from time to time, and for this reason 
observations only extending over a few days may give unreliable 
results. Failure to excrete salt is most marked in acute 
nephritis and in severe cases of parenchymatous nephritis. 
In granular kidney the excretion may be normal, except during 
an exacerbation or when the heart is failing. 

Although we usually speak of the excretion of the 
chlorides, it is the base, sodium, which is retained, at all 
events in many cases, whilst potassium may be passed 
out. Herringham made observations upon cases of nephritis 
in which the sodium and the potassium were estimated in the 
food, the urine and the faeces. In a girl aged 17, suffering 
from severe parenchymatous nephritis, the following total 
figures were obtained in a nine days' experiment : 





Potassium. 


Sodium. 


In food 


1 3 grammes 


5 grammes 


In urine and faeces 


13 


2-4 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 167 

On three days no sodium at all was excreted. The patient 
died about a month later. Similar analyses carried out in a 
man aged 47 in the last stages of interstitial nephritis with a 
dilated hypertrophied heart gave in four days, 





Potassium. 


Sodium. 


In food 


10'2 grammes 


6 grammes 


In urine and faeces 


13 


o 



This retention of sodium, as several workers have noted, 
is commonly, but not necessarily, associated with oedema. On 
the other hand, Avhen oedema is present there is frequently a 
retention of salt. Widal and Javal and others have found 
that diminishing the salt in the 3 food in nephritis lessens the 
oedema, and adding salt increases it. Herringham found this 
to be the case also in ascites, and demonstrated the presence 
of a considerable quantity of sodium in the fluid. Cantineau 
found in a case of tuberculous peritonitis with effusion that a 
salt free diet was followed by the disappearance of the fluid, 
whilst at a later 'period, when at the patient's wish salt was 
added to the diet, the oedema and ascites recurred. Achard 
has used the diet in the ascites of cirrhosis. Whether the 
retention of salt is secondary to that of water or the converse 
is a disputed point. According to Bainbridge, in some cases 
at least, the retention of salt is primary. But, whether or no 
either view is correct to the exclusion of the other, experiment 
shows that in dropsy from renal disease, and from many other 
causes, and even in severe cases of nephritis without dropsy, 
the salt in the diet should be restricted. (Edema is lessened 
because salt continues to pass out in the urine and draws 
water with it. A limitation of salt is safer and less open to 
objection than a restriction of water. The amount may be 
reduced to 2 or 3 grammes. Milk contains about a gramme 
to a pint. Ordinary bread contains 5-7 grammes to the pound, 
and, on this account, bread must be specially baked without 
salt. Meat, fresh-water fish, most vegetables, eggs, butter 
and sweets are allowed, with not more than 3 pints of fluid. 



168 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Carducci does not recommend a salt free diet in cardiac 
dropsy, though others report good results. In mild cases of 
chronic granular kidney without oedema it is not necessary to 
reduce the salt in the food. 

Lime is an important mineral constituent of the food. Chos- 
sat showed in 1842 that pigeons fed upon a diet poor in lime 
suffered from disarrangement of the feathers, diarrhoea and 
thirst, and died in 8-10 months with soft bones. Subsequent 
experiments with a lime free diet have confirmed this result. 
Voit, Seemann, and Baginsky found that dogs fed upon flesh, 
fat and distilled water, appeared to be normal for a considerable 
time and increased in weight, but ultimately became weak and 
suffered from changes in the bones accompanied by a disap- 
pearance of inorganic material. In zoological gardens it has been 
found impossible to rear lion cubs until bone dust has been added 
to their dietary, in imitation of the natural state of carnivorous 
animals in which the bones are eaten with the meat. In 
some recent experiments by Chalmers Watson, changes in the 
bones have been described as the result of feeding rats upon a 
meat diet ; the present writer has put forward the suggestion that 
these may be due, not to the meat as such, but to the fact that 
the diet is deficient in inorganic material, and has found that 
the general condition of rats fed upon meat is improved by the 
addition of a small quantity of calcium phosphate to the food. 
The amount of calcium absorbed from the alimentary canal 
is very small and is practically all deposited in the bones : human 
muscle only contains '01 grammes per cent (Katz). Experi- 
ments which have been made to determine the part played by 
calcium in rickets have not led to very definite conclusions. 
When there is digestive disturbance it has been found that 
less calcium is absorbed. Arndt found that calcium was less 
freely absorbed from boiled milk than from unboiled. The 
bones in rickets are deficient in calcium, but it is stated that 
the tissues are not, whereas in animals upon a lime free diet, 
both bones and tissues show a diminution. Calcium lessens 
the muscular activity of the intestinal tract, as was experi- 
mentally shown by MacCallum. This explains the well-known 
fact that hard water is liable to produce constipation. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 169 

The metabolism of phosphates has been supposed to be 
specially connected with that of nervous tissues, but up to the 
present experiment has shown little foundation for this conjec- 
ture. Mental work has no influence upon the excretion of 
phosphoric acid. Folin and Shaffer showed that in cyclic insanity 
the phosphates in the urine were increased during the attacks. 
Beddard and the writer have found (in an unpublished re- 
search) that in migraine there is an increased excretion of 
phosphates in the urine in the early part of the attack. This 
increase is, however, rapidly followed by a corresponding 
diminution, so that the total amount excreted is not 
influenced. Ordinary food contains a sufficient proportion of 
phosphates, and no evidence has been brought forward that 
the addition of more is of any advantage to the organism. 



GENERAL REMARKS ON NUTRITION IN DISEASE, 
INCLUDING FEBRILE CONDITIONS 

Before considering in detail the effect of disease upon the 
nutritional needs of the body, it may be premised that a con- 
sideration of experimental work on this subject shows that, on 
the whole, the energy exchanges of the body follow the same 
rules in disease as in health. Diseases seldom exercise a direct 
influence upon the oxidation processes. Magnus Levy, in a 
paper published in 1906, has ably reviewed this subject. The 
most marked exceptions to the above statement are found, on 
the one hand, in myxcedema, in which the respiratory exchange 
may be reduced to half its normal value, and on the other in 
exophthalmic goitre, in which the oxidation is increased by 40- 
80 per cent, a fact which amply explains the wasting so often 
seen in patients suffering from the latter disease, and indicates 
that a rich diet should be prescribed. Even in these two cases 
the effect of the absence or the excess of the thyroid secretion 
is probably, in part at least, exerted indirectly, through muscular 
movement. In leuchaemia oxidation is increased, and in fevers, 
though seldom more than 20 per cent ; and in the last stage 
of exhaustion from any cause the energy exchange is naturally 



170 

lessened. In diabetes, gout, obesity, syphilis, tuberculosis and 
cancer the oxidation, in the absence of marked fever, is normal. 
Alimentary diseases affect the exchange of energy only by 
causing less food to be taken. Diseases of the heart, lung, 
kidney, and skin also have no specific effect on metabolism. In 
all these conditions, therefore, the food requirements will be 
influenced only indirectly. If a disease enforces rest less food 
is needed. If, on the other hand, it is accompanied by an 
increase of muscular action, as in the respiratory movements 
of dyspnoea or the restlessness of some fevers, this leads to a 
greater use of energy. Again, when the body suffers a loss of 
material, as in severe haemorrhage, this requires to be made up. 
Magnus Levy, hi the paper already referred to, points out that 
we cannot expect drugs or other therapeutic measures to affect 
metabolism in any subtle way, and must look for the beneficial 
action of medicines to be brought about by their influence upon 
the ordinary physiological processes which make up the activities 
of the body. For instance, by allaying restlessness, improving 
appetite, conserving the heat of the body or promoting the 
loss of heat, and so on. The only drug which seems to directly 
affect the oxidation processes is thyroid extract when given 
in myxcedema. On normal people its effect is far less marked. 
Such physical agencies as sunlight, air, cold water all work 
indirectly through the nervous, muscular and other systems 
of the body. 



FEVERS 

Many experiments have been made in man and animals 
to gain information as to the actual disturbances of metabolism 
in fevers and to determine how recovery may be aided by 
diet. 

Fevers are commonly due to bacterial toxins. These pro- 
duce a disturbance of the regulation of heat, of which the most 
marked feature seems to be a diminution of the loss of heat 
from the skin. In many cases there is an increased production 
of heat, but it is much less in degree than was formerly thought. 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON DIET 171 

The amount of oxygen used is not commonly raised more than 
10-20 per cent, and some authorities regard this increase as 
due solely to muscular activity, evidenced in the restlessness 
of a feverish patient. The excretion of nitrogen in the urine 
is much greater than is normal for a healthy person fed upon 
a similar diet, and this is due to the breakdown of protein tis- 
sues. This breakdown appears to be, in some cases at all events, 
independent of the increase of oxidation, and in some degree 
independent of the temperature, for it may occur in septic infec- 
tions when there is no rise of temperature. Artificial pyrexia 
does, however, produce both increased oxidation and protein 
breakdown. The destruction of protein is considered to take 
place chiefly in the muscles because potassium salts, neutral 
sulphur and creatinine, which are regarded as derived from muscle, 
are also passed out in greater quantity. The writer has pub- 
lished some evidence to show that uric acid is probably chiefly 
derived from non-muscular protein tissues : if this be also true 
in pyrexia, we may conclude that all the protein tissues share 
in the disintegration, for the uric acid excretion is greater in 
fever. 

With these considerations in mind we may now look at 
the experiments upon diet in febrile conditions. In the first 
place, it has been shown that animals suffering from fever cannot 
endure deprivation of food so well as normal animals. This 
seems obvious enough, but strikes directly against the old prac- 
tice of putting fever patients on as low a diet as possible, and 
shows that food should be supplied in fever so far as is com- 
patible with the condition of the patient. The idea has been 
current that the food taken in fever is not properly utilized, 
but analyses of the faeces show that the absorption of protein, 
fat, and carbo-hydrate does not materially differ from that in 
health : various experimenters have found this in typhoid 
fever, pneumonia, tuberculosis, recurrent fever and diphtheria. 
It might be thought that carbo-hydrate and fat, although 
not appearing in the faeces, are broken up in the intestines 
by bacterial action, and their energy lost to the tissues, 
but this has not been shown to be the case. On the contrary, 
it has been proved that it is possible to supply sufficient 



172 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

food in fevers to prevent a loss of weight in some cases 
and to greatly diminish the loss in others. The heat value 
should amount, if possible, to about 25 calories per kilogramme, 
a quantity sufficient to maintain the weight of a resting person. 
Three pints of milk, containing 1,150 calories, would be ade- 
quate for a person of 46 kilogrammes or 7J stone, and is there- 
fore less than should be supplied to persons of greater weight. 
Milk should form the basis of the diet, because it appears that 
it is digested with the least expenditure of energy on the 
part of the intestines, but it should be thickened by the 
addition of other foods. 

Protein may be added to the milk in the form of plasmon 
or some similar product, or given as meat juice, or minced meat, 
or pounded fish. Experiment has shown that the loss of nitro- 
gen from the body is much less when a fair quantity of protein 
is taken, but it has not been found possible in pneumonia or 
typhoid fever to attain nitrogenous equilibrium. It is, how- 
ever, an advantage to supply protein freely, and Moraczewski, 
who observed the metabolism in eighteen cases of pneumonia, 
believes that convalescence is thereby shortened. Puritz came 
to the same conclusion as the results of his experiments on cases 
of enteric fever. 

Fat is a valuable constituent of the food, but requires to 
be given with caution, since an excess so readily excites disgust, 
and hinders the patient from taking a sufficiency of other foods. 
Milk fat is easily absorbed, and as much cream and butter 
as possible should be taken. The cream may be given in soups 
or added to the milk. Butter may be taken on bread, in 
puddings, and with a little potatoes. Two ounces of butter 
and pint of cream will add 750 calories to the daily ration. 

Carbo-hydrate must necessarily form part of the febrile 
diet. It has been shown, both in animals and in man, that 
dextrose saves protein from being broken down in fever, as it 
does in health. It is clear, therefore, that starches and sugars 
should be given as freely as possible. Arrowroot is often well 
taken by patients with cream and sugar. Cornflour may be 
added to the milk, and, in the less severe cases, thin 
bread and butter or biscuits allowed. 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 



CHAPTER V 

DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 
BY EDMUND CAUTLEY, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

VARIOUS systems of diet have been devised to meet the require- 
ments of disease, the fancies of the faddist, and the desire of the 
layman to teach the members of the medical profession things 
of which they are thoroughly well informed. Some of these 
systems are based on the elimination of articles of food from the 
diet list, on aesthetic or humanitarian grounds. Others depend 
on theories about that bugbear of the lay imagination, " the 
uric acid diathesis." In many instances the particular modifi- 
cation is due to purely medical reasons, such as the desire for 
simplicity, the wish to give the digestive functions a complete 
rest from dealing with some one or other of the various food 
constituents, or the necessity for limiting the amount of nutriment 
in the diet without reducing the actual quantity thereof. Often 
it is merely a question of partial starvation for the time being. 
Many of the diets, which carry out this object, are those used 
in the treatment of obesity, and are referred to in that section. 
The diets dealt with in the present chapter are of use in various 
conditions of health and disease, in different climates, and for 
different individuals or the same individual under different con- 
ditions of life. 



THE MILK CURE 

A simple milk diet is one hi which milk alone is given fresh, 
uncooked, boiled or peptonized, whole or diluted with a simple 
diluent. This is the method of feeding in many febrile and 

176 



176 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

digestive disorders, and is so well known that it needs no further 
comment. As a definite " cure " milk may be added to the 
ordinary diet or given as the only article of food. For infants 
it forms a complete food, but for adults it is wofully deficient 
in carbo-hydrates. As a simple addition to the ordinary diet, 
a tumblerful of milk may be given at 11 a.m. and at bed- 
time. It is the most suitable plan for the treatment of 
malnutrition. 

As an exclusive diet milk may be recommended for all kinds 
of dropsy, functional and organic disorders of the alimentary 
tract, hepatic and renal diseases, chronic bronchitis and emphy- 
sema, alcoholism, neurasthenia, rheumatic and gouty affections, 
and for arterial disease. Possibly in the latter it may be dis- 
advantageous, because of the amount of lime salts present, unless 
it is given in the form of buttermilk. In my experience the 
treatment is chiefly valuable for chronic affections of the colon 
and small intestine, associated with toxaemic states. It is 
useful, too, in the cure of anaemic obesity, when the patient is 
kept in bed, provided it is only used as a preliminary method 
of treatment, with a view to reducing the general watery engorge- 
ment of the tissues and relieving the strain on the circulation 
and the heart. 

Technique of treatment. The milk should be obtained fresh 
twice a day and be thoroughly skimmed. Occasionally it is 
advisable that the fat be entirely removed by centrifugaliza- 
tion, but this complete separation of fat is not often beneficial. 
It should be given at a temperature of about 60 F. to 70 F., 
the room temperature in summer, and warmed in winter. It 
must not be boiled, unless there is diarrhoea. It must be drunk 
slowly, sipped. Begin with small doses. They are less likely 
to cause nausea and disgust, and the semi-starvation at once 
begins to afford rest and relief to the organs. Karrell recom- 
mends a dose of 3-6 oz. four times a day, at intervals of four 
hours, and no other food. Weir Mitchell recommends 4 oz. 
every two hours, and that as the dose is increased the interval 
should be increased to three hours. One dose, with a little 
lime water, is allowed during the night. As soon as small solid 
stools indicate that the milk is well digested, the amount may 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 177 

be increased, until finally the patient is taking from 10-20 oz. 
for each meal. The amount should never exceed six pints 
daily ; and the duration of the treatment must not be prolonged 
more than six weeks. Slight modifications may be permitted. 
Thus, the milk can be flavoured with tea, coffee, pure cocoa, 
salt or burnt sugar. To counteract acidity, lime water or 
Vichy water may be added. Or the milk may be scalded by 
the addition of one-fourth its bulk of boiling water, and salt and 
carbonate of soda added ; or it may be mixed with barley, rice 
or oatmeal water. 

It is essential that the patient be kept in bed at first, for 
the diet is small, insufficient, and leads to loss of weight and 
strength. Sleeplessness may be troublesome in the first week. 
Later on drowsiness is not uncommon. The tongue becomes 
coated with a thick creamy fur ; the mouth has a nasty taste 
in it ; and there is constipation, showing that the milk is absorbed. 
Flatulence and diarrhoea may arise from too great a quantity, 
lack of freshness, or insufficient skimming. Thirst can be relieved 
by plain or aerated water. The mouth should be washed out 
after each meal. Constipation should be treated by simple 
enema, castor oil, rhubarb powder, liquorice powder, or the 
addition of baked apples or stewed prunes to the diet, according 
to the nature of the case. If in two or three weeks there is keen 
desire for solid food, a little stale bread and salt, or a salted herring, 
is given, and once a day some soup made with milk and thickened 
with groats. In another fortnight it is generally necessary to 
make some further modification, such as the addition of Benger's 
food or some other starchy proprietary food. 

While on the pure milk diet the stools should vary in colour 
from yellowish to orange, have a peculiar odour, and be devoid 
of the typical faecal smell. The bowels should act every two or 
three days. The secretion of urine is increased by the lactose 
in the milk, for it acts as a mild diuretic. The urine assumes 
" a singular greenish tint," and contains little uric acid. 

Milk is a purin-free digestible nutritious fluid, which 
turns sour readily, but does not undergo putrefaction easily. 
It is, therefore, a most suitable diet in many intestinal affec- 
tions. 

12 



178 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



THE WHEY CURE 

Whey differs from milk in containing much less protein and 
that in the form of lact-albumin, about 0'85 per cent, a slightly 
higher proportion of sugar, and a mere trace of fat, 0'04 per 
cent. Its value depends on its characters as a dilute mildly 
nutritious fluid, easily digestible, non-irritating, and somewhat 
diuretic. It is especially useful in some of the acute gastric 
and intestinal affections of infancy, in marasmus, and for pre- 
mature or debilitated babies who cannot obtain breast-milk 
and are unable to digest the diluted milk of other animals. 
Curiously, in infants, it very commonly gives rise to green stools. 
Whey is, also, useful as the sole diet in enteric fever, as a substi- 
tute for milk in jaundice, in renal and other dropsical affections, 
in abdominal plethora and in some pulmonary diseases. 

In enteric fever it may be given in doses of 4-6 oz. every 
two hours, according to the state of the patient and the alimen- 
tary tract. Many typhoid cases come to a bad end because of 
over-feeding and resulting intestinal fermentation, abdominal 
distension, the passage of undigested stools, and sometimes 
ileus, haemorrhage or perforation in consequence of the disten- 
sion. This state of intestinal distension is rarely developed on 
a diet of whey. When it has arisen on other diets it may often 
be relieved by complete starvation, a liberal allowance of water, 
or a diet of whey only. 

In abdominal plethora whey is given in amounts up to ten 
tumblerfuls a day, with a diet of fruit and vegetables. It is 
best to begin with one glass night and morning and increase 
by an extra glass daily. It should be taken warm, and given 
alone or with a mineral water. 

The so-called " whey cure " is carried out at Ems, Ischl and 
Reichenhall, for the treatment of chronic laryngeal and bronchial 
catarrh, and chronic phthisis. It consists of 20 oz. of whey 
daily and a modified diet, in which animal foods are reduced 
and vegetables increased. The benefits which may be derived 
from such a course of treatment are mainly due to the place, the 
change of scene and climate, and the regular habits and mode 






DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 179 

of life. It is barely conceivable that the course is a justifiable 
one for a case of chronic phthisis, for the benefits derived from 
the climate and mode of life are likely to be more than 
counterbalanced by the insufficiency of the diet. For catarrhal 
states, associated with plethoric conditions, the result of high 
living, the treatment is likely to be beneficial. 

The preparation of the whey. Curdle 30 oz. of milk at 105 F. 
with rennet. Break up the clot thoroughly and strain through 
muslin. This should yield from 20-22 oz. of whey. It con- 
tains more protein and fat, when made by this method, than if 
the whey is simply 'allowed to separate out by contraction of the 
curd after clotting. 



KOUMISS AND KEPHIR CURES 

Koumiss is the fermented milk of mares or asses. It is 
used largely by the Tartars and Khirgis tribes and other nomadic 
tribes of the South-eastern Steppe country of Russia. It is 
given as a cure for phthisis in the districts where it is made, with 
good results, which more probably depend on the climate than 
the koumiss. It is also made and used in Moscow and St. 
Petersburg. 

The " koumiss cure " is carried out in the Steppes of Oren- 
berg and at AnnaefFs and PostnikofFs establishments in Ssa- 
mara. AnnaefFs place is on the banks of the Volga, three versts 
from Ssamara. It is situated in a park on a hill and is pro- 
vided with a library and theatre. Patients should only go there 
in summer, for the winter climate is too severe. 

Patients are made to rise early and to take a glass of koumiss 
every half hour, except during the two hours before dinner and 
supper. Meats and fats form the chief part of the diet. Sweets, 
fruits, salads, ices, coffee and spirits are forbidden. At first 
only a few glasses of koumiss are given, until the patient is 
accustomed to it, and lime water is added to stop diarrhoea. It 
is well digested, even in large quantities, relieves constipation, 
and acts as a diuretic or diaphoretic, according to the temperature 
of the external air. 



180 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Mode of preparation and composition. The milk is fermented 
by means of kephir grains. Alcoholic and lactic acid fermenta- 
tion occur. Milk of mares is the best, because it is rich in sugar. 
The milk sugar is converted into alcohol, carbonic acid gas and 
lactic acid. Fat is liable to butyric acid fermentation, and for 
this reason, too, mares' milk is the best, because it is poor in fat. 
The resulting fluid varies in composition with the duration of 
fermentation. A good sample contains about one to two per 
cent of alcohol and less lactic acid, and is a milky, frothy liquid 
with a slightly acid taste. The amount of alcohol is not greater 
than in many temperance drinks. It is more readily digested 
and more completely absorbed than milk, and can be taken in 
huge quantities, from 10-15 pints in the 24 hours. As much as 
three or four gallons may be taken on a hot day in the Steppes. 
Hence, a considerable amount of nutriment is taken. It is 
diuretic, mildly purgative, and limits intestinal putrefaction by 
virtue of the lactic acid and bacilli which it contains. The alcohol 
is a mild stimulant and food. The carbonic acid encourages 
gastric secretion. The casein is finely divided, digestible, and 
does not curdle in the stomach. 

Kephir is the product of a similar fermentation of cows' 
or goats' milk, and has been used for ages among the Caucasian 
tribes. Kephir grains or beans consist of masses of dried fer- 
ment held together by a gelatinous substance. The active agents 
are the saccharomyces mycoderma and the lactic acid bacillus. 
In composition it is practically the same as koumiss. A modi- 
fication of koumiss is made by various dairy companies from 
cows' milk, by the addition of sugar and yeast. The use of kephir 
grains was soon abandoned. It is sold under the names of 
kephir and koumiss. The milk is skimmed or diluted to reduce 
the amount of fat. The casein is partially predigested, dis- 
solved, precipitated in a state of very fine division, and a small 
amount of peptone is formed. The taste for these preparations 
is an acquired one. The artificial product costs about Is. a 
champagne quart. Begin with small doses, about one pint 
daily, and increase gradually. 

An ordinary amount of koumiss per day would be about 
seven pints, or 4,000 c.c. Obviously the addition of this amount 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 



181 



of food to a diet rich in protein and fat, combined with an open- 
air life in the pure air of the Steppes and freedom from anxiety, 
is likely to prove very advantageous in suitable cases of early 
phthisis or mild fibroid cases. In comparison with the whey 
cure, in which there is marked underfeeding, the results are 
likely to be excellent. Koumiss and kephir are practically 
identical in composition, but in each the actual percentages 
of the various constituents depend on the duration of fermen- 
tation. 






Kephir. 


Koumiss. 


Dujar- 
din- 
Beau- 
metz. 






After 2 
days. 
Hartier. 


Analysis by Stange. 


6 
hours. 


18 
hours. 


30 
hours. 


Protein .... 
Fat 


3-8 
2-0 
2-0 
0-9 
0-8 


3-1 
2-0 
1-6 
0-8 
2-1 


2-2 
2-1 
1-5 

0-9 
1-7 


1-12 

2-05 
2-20 
1-15 
1-65 


2-25 
1-89 
1-88 
0-39 
1-85 


2-26 
2-00 
1-63 
0-56 
1-95 


2-00 
1-90 

o-oo 

0-64 
3-00 


Carbo-hydrate 
Lactic acid 
Alcohol .... 



Mental and bodily languor and excitement of the sexual 
organs have been noted as sequels of the treatment. The " cure " 
is suitable for gastric and pulmonary catarrh, when conjoined 
with a hot dry climate. Sometimes it is beneficial in anaemia, 
malnutrition and convalescence from illness. It has been 
recommended for delirium tremens and hepatic cirrhosis. 
Chiefly, the artificial product in this country is useful for severe 
vomiting and gastric and intestinal diseases, associated with 
putrefaction. Thus, it may be tried with fair hopes of success 
in chronic infantile ileo-colitis and in the colitis of adults. Apart 
from these latter disorders koumiss and kephir must be looked 
upon as aids to treatment rather than as definite curative 
agents. 



182 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

LACTOBACILLINE TREATMENT 

Analogous to the koumiss or kephir cures, dependent as they 
are on the presence of lactic acid and lactic acid bacilli, is the 
treatment of intestinal and other affections by buttermilk or by 
lactobacilline. Buttermilk should be made from sour cream or 
milk, and be less than 24 hours old. According to Salge, when 
made from sour cream it contains protein 2-5-2*7, fat O'S-l'O, 
sugar 3-0-3-5 per cent ; the decrease in the sugar being due to 
the lactic acid fermentation. It is best made from sour milk 
previously skimmed. Churn one pint at a temperature of 60 F. 
to 70 F. for 15 minutes in a glass churn of two pints' capacity. 
Stand it on ice and use it during the next 24 hours. The casein 
is finely divided by centrifugalization and separated from its 
calcium base, and the calcium is transformed into soluble salts, 
chiefly lactate, about 1'85 grammes per litre. 

The acidity is about 0'5 per cent., and the caloric value 300- 
450 per litre. On heating, the finely divided casein clots in 
large masses like ordinary sour milk. This can be prevented by 
constant stirring or by adding carbonate of soda up to slight 
alkalinity. The clots are composed of casein lactate. Butter- 
milk is not often taken raw. Usually it is sweetened and 
sterilized, or is mixed with 10-25 grammes of flour and 35-90 
grammes of sugar per litre and brought to a boil three times. 
The following is another method of preparation. Add one 
teaspoonful of wheaten flour and four of granulated sugar to a 
quart of buttermilk, with constant stirring. Then heat to boil- 
ing point in a double saucepan, stirring often, and taking care 
not to curdle the mixture by too much heat. Cool rapidly and 
keep it in bottles. A condensed buttermilk is sold under the 
name of " Nutricia " Condensed Buttermilk. 

Obviously, fresh buttermilk differs from the cooked prepara- 
tions in the presence of numerous active lactic acid bacilli which 
are so easily destroyed by heat. The effects, therefore, will differ 
according to the mode of preparation. 

Another mode of treatment has been devised whereby these 
bacilli can be given in compressed tablet form, or can be added 
in the form of powder to milk, with the view to turning it sour 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 183 

by inoculating it with huge numbers of the bacilli. In Paris 
the " Milk curdled a la Lactobacilline " and *' Lactobacilline 
Broth " can be obtained ready for use, or a lactobacilline liquid 
for the preparation of such milk. In London it can be obtained 
from Wilcox, Jozeau and Co. in the form of powders, together 
with the necessary apparatus for the preparation of the milk, 
or as tablets which can be given separately. Similar tablets 
of active lactic acid bacilli are sold by Allen and Hanbury 
under the name of " Sauerin." The indications for the use 
of these foods, that is, for the administration of lactic acid or 
of bacilli, which will produce lactic acid in the intestines, are 
the same as those of the koumiss cure. They limit intestinal 
putrefaction and are useful in most forms of enteritis, the green 
diarrhoea of infants, typhoid fever, colitis, and diseases which 
can be ascribed sometimes to intestinal putrefaction or the 
absorption of toxins from the alimentary tract. They may 
possibly be useful in rheumatism, gout and allied affections, 
and in arteriosclerosis. 

THE PURIN-FREE DIET 

A few preliminary remarks on purins and purin metabolism 
are necessary in order to form a due appreciation of the value 
of the purin-free diet. Purins are bodies with a base C 5 N 4 H 4 
(purin) and include : 

Oxy-purins or Oxides of purin. Amido-purins. 

Hypoxanthin C 6 N 4 H 4 O Adenin C 5 N 4 H 4 -NH (amide of 

hypoxanthin). 
Xanthin C 5 N 4 H 4 O 2 Guanin C 5 N 4 H 4 O-NH (amide of 

xanthin). 
Uric acid C 6 N 4 H 4 O 3 

Methyl-pur ins 

Thein and Caffein C 5 H (CH 3 ) 3 N 4 O, 
Theobromin C 5 H 2 (CH 3 ) a N 4 O a 

Xanthin, hypoxanthin, adenin and guanin are called purin 
bases. The amount in the urine is estimated by the purino- 
meter. About 3 per cent of the nitrogen of the food appears in the 
urine as purin and 86 per cent as urea, in mammals, so purirs 
are quite of secondary importance to urea. Mammals and bir^g 
are not comparable in their nitrogenous metabolism. In mam- 



184 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

mals uric acid by the mouth appears as urea in the urine ; in 
birds urea, amido-acids, and ammonia appear as uric acid. Urea is 
an end product of metabolism in mammals, and never forms uric 
acid, but in birds it is converted into uric acid before excretion. 

Laboratory experiments show that uric acid can be split 
up into alloxan and urea ; that alloxan can be converted into 
parabanic acid and C0 2 ; and that oxaluric acid is derived 
from parabanic acid and can be split up into oxalic acid and 
urea. Hence, uric acid appears to contain two urea molecules, 
one of which is easily liberated, while the other is only 
freed with difficulty. There is another way in which uric 
acid can be split up into the ultimate products, urea, oxalic 
acid and carbonic acid, but allantoin, a somewhat similar 
body to alloxan, is formed in the intermediate process. On 
mild oxidation uric acid yields allantoin and C0 2 . On 
powerful oxidation it splits up into oxalic acid and urea. By 
hydrolysis uric acid yields glycin (amido-acetic acid), ammonia 
and C0 2 . Glycin plus urea forms uric acid. Glycin is found in 
the tissues and is undoubtedly a decomposition product of purins 
in herbivora, and probably so in man. Allantoin and oxalic 
acid in minute traces are normal constituents of urine. Both 
glycin and allantoin can form urea. In cats and dogs the purin 
of purin decomposition is only oxidized as far as allantoin, while 
in man it is further changed into urea. Glycin, allantoin and 
oxalic acid may all be produced during the disintegration of purin. 

Purins are called exogenous when they are taken into the 
body as food, and endogenous when they are formed in the 
body. Vegetable purins are said to be less injurious than animal 
ones. Exogenous purins are present in meat and meat extracts ; 
glandular organs, especially the liver, thymus, pancreas and 
kidneys ; many cereals ; some fruits, e.g. strawberries ; vege- 
tables, such as peas, beans, lentils, spinach, asparagus and onions ; 
fungi, e.g. mushrooms ; malt liquors ; tea, coffee and cocoa. 

These exogenous purins are in the form of oxy-purins, amido- 
purins or methyl-purins, according to the food, and are com- 
bined or free. They vary in their effects. Any purin by the 
mouth increases the purin excretion and always to the same 
extent, varying with the nature of the purin. Thus, in man, 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 185 

about one-half of the oxy-purins ingested, pure or in muscle, 
liver or spleen, reappears in the urine as uric acid. In dogs 
only one-twentieth reappears in this form. Of the amido- 
purins one-fourth of the nitrogen reappears as uric acid. Of 
the methyl-purins one-third reappears as basic purin-X. 
These methyl-purins are peculiar in that they cause an increase 
in the excretion of purin bases, but not of uric acid. Yet they 
are oxidized into oxy-purins, and it is known that oxy-purins 
give rise to uric acid. 

That portion of the exogenous purins which is not excreted 
must be either stored up or disintegrated. Probably it is dis- 
integrated, for it has been found that when uric acid and 
hypoxanthin are injected subcutaneously, in each case one- 
twentieth part appears in the urine, although hypoxanthin is 
much more soluble than uric acid and ought to be much more 
readily excreted. 

In order to study the metabolism of endogenous purins a 
purin-free nitrogenous diet must be given. On such a diet 
it is found that the excretion of endogenous uric acid remains 
stationary and uninfluenced by the nature or amount of the diet, 
provided that it be sufficient. But the amount of urea excreted 
varies with the amount of protein given. Therefore, the uric 
acid does not come from protein. The total purin excretion 
on the diet is practically that of endogenous purin and a 
measure thereof. It varies in different individuals, and is con- 
stant in the same individual under the same conditions. It is 
supposed to come chiefly from the muscles and to.be increased 
by muscular work. Recent work by Spriggs has led him to 
maintain that the greater part of the endogenous uric acid 
does not come from the muscular tissue, but that endogenous 
creatinin is mainly, if not entirely, derived from muscle and 
is the product of its structural metabolism. 

The formation of uric acid. Nucleinic acid, from the nuclei 
of cells, is split up by a ferment (nuclease) into and sets free 
purin bases, especially adenin and guanin. The nucleins vary 
in the nature of the amido-purins to which they give rise. Adenin 
comes from the thymus, guanin from the pancreas, and both 
from salmon sperm. By means of a hydrolytic ferment adenin 



186 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

is converted into hypoxanthin and guanin into xanthin. Possibly 
there are two ferments, adenase and guanase ; or only one, in 
which case guanin is more resistant than adenin to disamid- 
ation. Subsequently the xanthin and hypoxanthin are con- 
verted by oxidase into uric acid, perhaps in the muscles and before 
getting into the blood. 

Part of this uric acid is destroyed by a ferment in the liver, 
undoubtedly the purin destructor in dogs, and part is excreted 
before it is transformed. Thus, the amount of endogenous 
purins excreted is likely to bear a definite relation to the amount 
produced in the tissues, as has already been stated to be the 
case. About half of both the exogenous and endogenous purins 
is disrupted in the tissues and sets free urea molecules. 

We may conclude from the above statement, based on the 
most recent work on the subject, that the uric acid excretion 
bears no relation to protein metabolism ; that in man it is in- 
creased by oxy-purins in the diet ; that oxy-purins are derived 
from adenin and guanin, and these bodies from nuclein ; that 
nucleins in the food give rise to uric acid in the urine, although 
adenin and guanin by the mouth have apparently little effect ; 
and that the conversion of oxy-purins into uric acid is due 
to a ferment action. 

The purin-free diet in gout is based on the theory that there 
is retention of uric acid in the system in consequence of abnormal 
chemical affinities or blockage of the excretory channels, the 
kidneys. Possibly gout depends on an abnormal endogenous 
metabolism ,pf purins with which there may or may not be 
associated a specific insufficiency of the renal epithelium to 
excrete uric acid. It is difficult to accept the theory of renal 
inadequacy, for at times the gouty excrete uric acid extremely 
well. In favour of the retention theory are the presence of uric 
acid in the blood ; the lessened elimination of endogenous uric 
acid and the large variations therein ; the delayed reaction of the 
urine to the intake of purins ; and the formation of tophi. Uric 
acid exists in the blood as a salt and also as a firm combina- 
tion with some unknown substance. Possibly the formation 
of excretable uric acid depends on ferments, or the excess is 
due to deficiency of uric acid destroying ferment. In gout it is 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 



187 



worth while to try the effect of a purin-free diet ; to estimate 
the toleration for purins ; and to regulate the intake of protein. 
The relief of gout by drugs, which prevent intestinal putrefaction 
or eliminate the products thereof, suggests that it is due to toxins. 
The large amount of indican often, but not always, present 
in the urine in acute gout supports the view that the toxaemia is 
due to intestinal putrefaction of protein. 

The diet. A purin-free diet can be devised from a combina- 
tion of the various purin-free foods. Nuts are the most nutri- 
tious and contain much fat ; chestnuts being the most digestible. 
Macaroni, dates, raisins, and cheese are all purin-free and are 
mentioned in order of nutritive value. White bread, potato 
and milk contain minute traces, but so minute that they may be 
regarded as purin-free. Cream, butter, fats, eggs, apples, grapes, 
figs and honey are also purin-free. The fruits mentioned are 
those best for food. The following table shows what foods are 
rich in purin. 

THE PURIN-CONTENT OF FOODS IN GRAIXS PER POUND, PlNT, OB TEACUP. 

Sweetbread 70'43 
Liver . 19'26 
Beefsteak 14'45 
Sirloin . 9'13 
Chicken . 9 -06 
Loin of pork 8*48 
Veal . . 8-13 
Ham. . 8-08 
Mutton . 6-75 

(Potts : Lancet, 1906, vol. ii, p. 933, based on Walker Hall's work.) 

The purin-free diet may be tried for gout and gouty condi- 
tions, renal disease, headaches and neuralgias, bilious attacks, 
recurrent vomiting, and chronic affections of all kinds. There is 
no proof that it is of any decided value, either in modifying or 
curing these constitutional states. Practically it will be found 
that the benefit derived from this diet is mainly dependent on its 
simplicity, on efficient mastication, on the limitation of intestinal 
putrefaction, and on the prevention of over-eating, which the 
return to a simple and limited diet involves. Too much, there- 
fore, must not be expected, but it may be justly recommended in 
conjunction with other therapeutic measures. Even if we accept 



Salmon . 


8-15 


Beans 


4-16 ' Porter. . 


1-35 


Halibut . 


7-14 


Lentils . 


4-16 Ale . . 


1-27 


Plaice 


5-56 


Oatmeal . 


3*45 Lager beer 


T09 


Cod . . 


4-07 


Asparagus 


1-50 


Coffee. . 


1-70 






Onions . 


0-06 


Ceylon tea 


1-21 










Indian tea 


1-05 










China tea. 


0-75 



188 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the view that gout is connected with anomalous purin meta- 
bolism, we must remember that this is due to a disorder of the 
tissues or special organs, and that it is a sequel, not a cause. 
There is no proof that either uric acids or purins by mouth can 
give rise to gout, or that they possess toxic properties of impor- 
tance. On a purin-free diet indicanuria may disappear. 



MEAT DIETS 

The ingestion of large quantities of meat has been recom- 
mended for tuberculous affections because of the infrequency 
with which they are associated with gouty states. That is 
to say, it is assumed that the gouty or uric acid diathesis is an- 
tagonistic to the tuberculous one, and that it can be induced 
by a liberal meat diet. A meat diet is also recommended for 
obesity, setting up a species of starvation ; for dyspeptic affec- 
tions, because of its simplicity and freedom from carbo-hydrate 
fermentation ; and for chronic articular gout, diabetes and 
psoriasis. 

The Salisbury diet is the typical meat diet and consists of 2-4 
pounds of meat, beef for preference, and 3-5 pints of hot water 
daily for 4-12 weeks. The meat is chopped up quite fine with 
an American chopper, and all gristle, bone, fat and visible con- 
nective tissue are removed. It is made into patties, sufficiently 
firm to hold together, three to four inches in diameter, and half 
to one inch thick. These are placed in a frying-pan, without fat 
or water, and rapidly heated, first on one side and then on the 
other. On removal from the fire they are allowed to stand near 
it until of a drab colour. Salisbury recommends that they should 
be broiled slowly and moderately well. Butter, pepper, salt, 
Worcester sauce, mustard, horseradish, celery salt and lemon 
juice may be added as condiments. Advocates of this diet have 
recommended three pounds of rump steak and one of cod-fish, 
with six pints of hot water daily, for two weeks. For the next 
three weeks the hot water is reduced to four pints and other 
kinds of meat are allowed, with a little green vegetable and un- 
sweetened rusks. During the next four weeks the hot water is 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 189 

further reduced to two pints ; hock and claret with seltzer are 
permitted, and grilled meat, poultry or game, crusts of stale bread 
and captain's biscuits. The meat must not be raw and must be 
quite fresh. 

The hot water should be given in doses of J to 1 pint, four or 
more times a day, say at 6 and 11 a.m., and 4 and 9 p.m., 
one or two hours before meals and hah* an hour before retiring. It 
should be of a temperature of 110 F. to 150 F. and should be 
sipped slowly in J to hour. If it nauseates, a little tea, coffee, 
lemon juice, salt or sal volatile (m xxx ad oz. xx) may be added. 

Five grains of bicarbonate of potash are sometimes given 
night and morning. 

There are obvious objections to this diet. It is absolutely 
unphysiological, a starvation diet in respect of fat and carbo- 
hydrates. The quantity is much too large for most people. 
It throws a great strain on the organs which have to do with 
the metabolism of protein. It is essential to be sure that the 
kidneys are sound before adopting this treatment. 

Zomotherapy is the name given to the treatment of disease 
by a diet of muscle juice or raw meat. A diet of raw meat and 
alcohol was recommended for phthisis and pyogenic infections 
by Fuster of Montpellier in 1865. C. Richet and J. Hericourt 
in 1889 experimentally determined the value of a raw meat 
diet for tuberculosis in dogs, and subsequently showed that the 
benefit was derived from the muscle juice and not from the 
muscle fibre, deprived of its juice by expression. They found 
that it was not a matter of hyper-alimentation, for only 50-100 
c.c. of the juice, as a daily dose, were sufficient to cure the dogs, 
whereas hyper-alimentation with the washed muscle fibres had 
no beneficial effects. The juice contains 2*5 per cent of albumi- 
noid material. 

The technique of the feeding is so complex as to render it 
quite impracticable. The best rump steak of cattle must be 
obtained, for it is richest in juice. Mutton yields less juice and 
often has a disagreeable odour and unduly high taste. Horse 
flesh is cheaper, less efficacious, more toxic and liable to set up 
enteritis. 

The juice must be prepared from perfectly fresh meat If 



190 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the muscle has undergone rigor mortis it has lost its glycogen, 
and contains lactic acid and more or less toxic products of decom- 
position. Hence, the juice should be prepared within two or 
three hours of the animal's death. If it is prepared from com- 
mercial meat it is less beneficial, more toxic and perhaps infective. 
The animal should be neither overworked nor underfed before 
death. The meat must be finely minced, wrapped in stout linen, 
put in a sieve and subjected to slow pressure. Small household 
presses will yield about 20 and larger presses 30-60 per cent of 
juice. If one-fourth the weight of sterilized water is added 
and the meat allowed to stand for an hour or two before com- 
pression, more fluid is obtained, but the bulk and the increased 
decomposition are disadvantages. Presses, mincer and linen 
should be well boiled or washed in boiling water before use. In 
hot weather the juice should be collected in a vessel surrounded 
by ice. Even in winter the juice should be taken at once, because 
of its liability to decomposition. It is repulsive to the patient 
and should be given in a coloured glass or with warm beef -tea. 
It is liable to set up alimentary, hepatic or renal troubles. Intes- 
tinal disorders are due to neglect of some detail in the technique, 
generally to the impossibility of getting the meat sufficiently 
fresh. 

The dose should be 9-15 ounces daily, with or between 
meals, in water, aerated water, tepid beef-tea, with or without 
salt or sugar. Three to six ounces is sufficient for early cases. 
If raw meat is given as much as a pound a day can be ordered, 
but few patients can take more than one-fourth to one-half 
pound. Raw meat and muscle juice can be combined in the 
dietary. No cooked meat should be allowed. 

Possibly the muscle juice contains a substance which is anta- 
gonistic to the tubercle bacillus and its toxin, for muscle fibres 
are not invaded by the organism, and during the course of the 
disease they waste, perhaps being sacrificed in the defence of 
the body. More probably the good effects depend on the nutri- 
tive value of the fluid as a stimulant of the nervous system or 
of thyroid activity. 

There is evidence that defective thyroid activity predisposes 
to tuberculous affections. These are apt to follow rapid growth 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 191 

at puberty, infectious diseases, prolonged lactation, sexual 
excess and alcoholism, in all of which the thyroid secretion is 
liable to be used up and the gland to atrophy from over-stimula- 
tion. Raw meat and milk stimulate thyroid activity and, accord- 
ing to Galeottiand Lindermann( 1897), the decomposition products 
of raw meat increase the colloid material of the thyroid. In fowls 
fed on raw meat the thyroid and parathyroids become enlarged 
(Chalmers Watson, 1904). No such change was found by D. 
Forsyth in similar experiments (1907). Milk probably contains 
some of the internal secretion of the thyroid, for iodine can reach 
the infant through the breast-milk. Infantile myxoedema rarely 
develops until after weaning and, moreover, the infant thyroid 
contains little colloid. 

Zomotherapy is indicated in latent, pre-tuberculous and early 
stages of tuberculosis. If we accept the view that the disease 
is due to infection in early life, through tuberculous cows' milk, 
it follows that undercooked meat should enter largely into the 
diet of young children. Meat juice and raw meat are valuable 
in anaemia, dyspepsia, neurasthenia, debility, convalescence, 
typhoid fever and after haemorrhage. Raw meat is contra- 
indicated, on account of its stimulating properties and its com- 
position, in excitability of the nervous system, haemoptysis, 
arthritis, liver and kidney disease, and pyogenic intoxication. 
In some of these, muscle juice may be given if the effects are 
carefully watched. 

Improvement is indicated in tuberculosis by increased mus- 
cular power, rise of blood pressure, increased haemoglobin, 
better digestion, and decrease in physical signs. In the very 
young the prognosis varies directly as the gain in weight, especially 
in the first month. Treatment should be continued for a 
period varying with the extent of the disease and the im- 
provement, and may be resumed at intervals if the health 
again fails. 

On account of the difficulty in obtaining fresh muscle juice a 
preparation, Carnine Lefranc, has been introduced to take its 
place. It claims to be made from freshly killed healthy animals 
by a cold process, without the aid of heat of any kind, without 
any added drug or chemical, and to accurately represent fresh 



192 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

muscle juice. One kilo of beef yields 250 grammes of the juice. 
It is a sweet syrup, agreeable to the taste, and keeps well. Dose : 
one to six tablespoonfuls daily, alone or in any fluid, except 
beef-tea, cold or tepid. 



VEGETARIANISM AND ITS MODIFICATIONS 

The strict vegetarian takes no animal food and no tubers or 
foods grown underground, limiting the diet entirely to fruits 
and vegetables grown in the sunlight. Others live on a diet 
of fruit and nuts, with milk. In a third class may be placed 
those who exclude fish, flesh and fowl ; and in a fourth those 
who merely exclude food obtained by the infliction of pain. 
Those who live on fruit, nuts and milk, are sometimes called 
fruitarians or nutarians. Those who take a mixed diet of milk, 
milk products, eggs, vegetables, fruits and nuts are often called 
lacto-vegetarians. 

Cereals, vegetables and fruits differ from animal foods in 
containing comparatively much carbo-hydrate and little protein. 
Starch is derived from cereals, bananas and chestnuts. Many 
fruits are rich in sugar. The animal kingdom supplies man with 
protein food, and the vegetable kingdom provides carbo-hydrates, 
except honey, fats being derived about equally from both sources. 
The carbo-hydrates are stored up as starch and circulate, during 
the life of the plant, as sugar. In the uncooked state the starch 
is indigestible, for it is enclosed in envelopes of insoluble cellulose. 
During cooking the granulose of the starch cell swells and bursts 
its cellulose envelope. Dry heat dextrinises starch. In some 
plants, e.g. the sugar-beet, the carbo-hydrate is mainly in the form 
of sugar. Another carbo-hydrate present, especially in fruits, is 
pectose or a pectin body. It is convertible into pentose, which 
is partially assimilable. This body is sometimes called vegetable 
gum. It causes the jollification of fruit on boiling. 

The percentage of carbo-hydrates varies in different vegetables 
and is highest in the tubers. Much is dissolved out in the 
process of boiling. Such vegetables should be cooked by 
steaming. 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 193 

THE PERCHNTAGE OF CARBO-HYDRATES IN TUBERS. 





Raw. 


Boiled. 


Onion 


6-3 


0-70 


Turnip 


5-0- 8-1 


0-65 




7-0-10-1 


3-40 


Beetroot 


9-7-1 TO 


2-81 


Parsnip ........ 


13-8 


T43 


Artichoke 


14*4 


4-60 


Potato 


19-1-24-4 


16-9-18-7 


Radish 


4-6 




Yams 


15-3 




Sweet potato 


22-5 











In the above-mentioned tubers the protein and fat are neglig- 
ible quantities. Obviously many of them are most innutritious, 
when boiled in the ordinary way. Ninety per cent of the carbo- 
hydrate of the sugar-beet is sugar. 

Green vegetables are practically fat-free ; contain very little 
protein, and of that one-tenth is lost in cooking ; and contain 
from 2-8 per cent of carbo-hydrate, of which one-third is lost 
in cooking. They possess the advantage of being able to take 
up a great deal of fat on cooking. They are liable to set up 
intestinal fermentation unless quite fresh. The proteins are 
not as readily absorbed as animal ones. They are chiefly globu- 
lins, soluble in dilute saline solutions and consequently largely 
dissolved out during cooking. 

Extractives are plentiful in vegetables and fruits, chiefly in 
the form of amides. It is generally asserted that vegetable 
purins are less injurious than those of animal origin, because they 
are not combined with the toxic products of decomposition. 
Of this there is no proof. It is more reasonable to suppose that 
the evil effects, if any, of the animal purins are due to the decom- 
position products rather than to the fact that they are of animal 
origin. 

Fats are negligible constituents of vegetables and fruits, 
except nuts. These, in the dried state, contain a percentage 
varying from ten in chestnuts to sixty or more in walnuts, filberts 
and hazel nuts. Olein is the predominant fat. Vegetable fats 

13 



194 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



are apparently quite as nutritious and more digestible than 
animal fats. 

Water is present in huge proportions in green vegetables, 
many tubers, and almost all the fruits, with the exception of 
nuts. The proportion is increased by cooking and decreased 
by drying and compression. The chief feature of the saline 
constituents is the excess of potassium salts. 

THE GENERAL COMPOSITION OF FRUITS AND NUTS. 





Fruits. 


Nuts. 


Fresh. 


Dried. 




80-0-90-0 
0-5- 1-0 
0-5- 1-0 
5-0-20-0 
2-5- 7'5 
0-5- 1-0 


38-48 
5-12 
28-35 
10 
1-2 
1-5 


3-5-7-0 
10-24 
50-65 
7-14 
3-5 
2-0 




Fat 


Carbo-hydrates 


Cellulose 


Mineral ash 





For practical purposes it is worth while stating roughly the 
amount of carbo-hydrates in the various fruits. 

0-5 per cent. : Blackberry, cranberry. 

5-10 ,, Bilberry, raspberry, peach, water melon, strawberry, 
currant, gooseberry, orange, lemon, pine-apple, 
cherry. 

10-15 Mulberry, pear, apricot, apple, greengage, plum. 
15-20 Grape (varies from 10 to 30), nectarine, fig, prune. 
20-25 Banana. 

Dried fruits contain still more ; a percentage varying from 
60 to 75 in dates, figs, prunes, currants and raisins. These 
are particularly valuable as food. 

From half to three-fourths of the carbo-hydrate is in the form 
of sugar, usually Isevulose. Apricots, apples and pine-apple 
also contain cane sugar. The remainder is in the form of pectin 
bodies or vegetable gum. The amount of cellulose is variable. 
The fruits also contain organic acids, in combination with potash, 
which increase the alkalinity of the blood, and urine. 

Bananina is a proprietary food made from bananas. It is 
a flour, the fibrous portions of the fruit being extracted, and 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 



195 



in composition is analogous to rice flour. It contains about 
one-half per cent of fat, and about half the amount of protein, 
and rather more carbo-hydrate than is present in wheat flour. 
A kind of bread is made from it. The richness of nuts in fat 
has led to the preparation of butter substitutes from them, 
e.g. albene (9d. per lb.), of which one ounce is said to be equiva- 
lent to 1 oz. of butter; nucoline (6d. per lb.), 1 oz. equal to 
1 oz. butter ; vegsu, or vegetable suet ; nut butter or nuttolene, 
equivalent to cream and containing protein ; cocoa butter, COCO- 
leum, cocolardo ; nucoa and Loder's cacos, substitutes for cocoa 
butter. Fromm's extract is made from crushed nuts, the cellu- 
lose and excess of oil being removed, (price 3s. Qd. per lb.). The 
percentage composition is : water 25*3, protein 21/9, fat 31'6, 
carbo-hydrates and cellulose 8'3, salts 12- 8. Malted nuts contain 
water 4'5, protein 23*6, fat 20'4, maltose 49'3, salts 2'2. Nuttose, 
broniose and nut meal are similar foods. 

Almonds and pistachio nut kernels are valuable, for they 
contain protein 20, fat 50, carbo-hydrates 10 per cent, or even 
higher proportions. Chestnuts yield the largest amount of car- 
bo-hydrates of any of the nuts. 

ANALYSIS OF CHESTNUTS (BAT.LAND). 





Freeh. 


Dried. 


Water 
Protein 


52-8 -62-6 
2-1 - 4-3 


4-45-11-05 


Fat 


0-45- 1-73 


1-17- 3-74 




31-54-40-74 


82-17-88-61 


Cellulose 


0-74- 1-36 


1-76- 3-29 


Mineral ash 


0-57- 1-22 


1-24- 3-06 









Boiled chestnuts contain 70, and roast ones 40 per cent of 
water. The tomato is so common a food that its composition 
should be known. Albahary (Comp. Rend, de 1'Acad. des Sciences, 
1907) gives the analysis as : water 93*5, carbo-hydrates 3*6, 
insoluble organic matter 1*69, nitrogenous matter 0'95, fat 0'2, 
insoluble inorganic matter O'll, ash 0'74 (calcium phosphate 0*12), 
citric acid 0'69, malic acid 0'48, and traces of oxalic, tartaric 
and succinic acids. Its nutritive value is evidently small. 



196 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

In a vegetarian diet the proteins must be obtained mainly from 
the pulses. These contain much nitrogen, which, except about 3-5 
per cent, is in the form of legumin or vegetable casein. They 
are well digested if properly prepared but, if cooked in the ordinary 
way and in hard water, they are indigestible. The protein com- 
bines with the lime. Such foods should be finely powdered before 
cooking. Some of the pulses, notably beans, are rich in sulphur, 
and cause flatulence from the formation of sulphuretted hydrogen 
gas. Lentils contain very little sulphur. Revalenta Arabica 
is an expensive kind of lentil flour and less nutritious than ordin- 
ary lentil flour, being poorer in nitrogen. Another feature in 
the composition of the pulses is the relatively high proportion of 
lime. It may possibly be a disadvantage to their free use, as 
liable to lead to premature calcification of the arteries. Pulses 
are poor in fat and are usually taken with fatty foods, e.g. beans 
and bacon ; and they are comparatively poor in phosphates. 

The composition of pulses as regards protein, in ascending 
order from 20-32 per cent, is as follows : butter beans, dried 
peas, Soy beans, broad beans, horse beans, peanuts, lentils, and 
haricot beans. Green peas contain 4, scarlet runners 1*7, and 
French beans 1'5 per cent of protein, when cooked. Carbo- 
hydrates are present in most of them in amounts exceeding 50 
per cent., while Soy beans contain 28, peanuts 17, green peas 
12-16, French beans 7, and scarlet runners 3'5 per cent. The 
amount of fat does not exceed 2 per cent, except in Soy beans 
18 and peanuts 44 per cent. 

The consideration of the constituents of the above food-stuffs 
shows that one of the chief advantages of the vegetarian diet, 
pure and simple, is the reduction in the nutritive value of the 
food, although as large or a larger bulk is taken. Proteins are 
especially deficient. The abolition of animal foods, except eggs, 
milk and milk products, from the diet has its advocates among 
those who consider the slaughter of animals unjustifiable or 
have aesthetic objections to flesh foods. No doubt this is a 
charming fancy of delicate and highly sensitive women and 
among sentimentalists. Carried out thoroughly to its logical 
conclusion it would have a most profound effect on life generally. 
Under such a scheme of diet all animals, except those used for 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 197 

draught purposes and pleasure, would gradually be abolished. 
Were fowls only kept to supply eggs and feathers, the price of 
eggs would rise considerably. So, too, the supply of milk would 
be insufficient and its price prohibitive, for cattle could not be 
kept profitably for the supply of milk and leather alone. Woollen 
clothing would become the luxury of the rich. The bulk of the 
grass grown would be absolutely wasted unless the science of 
the vegetarian were able to prepare from it a food for man. 

The productive value would be, however, increased if grass 
were converted into arable land for the growth of cereals and sugar 
beet, and into orchards for fruit and nuts. We should have an 
insufficient and expensive supply of milk, milk products and 
eggs, wool and leather. We should be dependent on cotton 
and linen for clothing and on compressed cellulose for boots and 
many other purposes. 

But although universal vegetarianism is opposed to the scheme 
of nature, there are cases in which the diet, or one modified by 
the addition of milk and eggs, is particularly suitable for some 
individuals and in certain diseases. Notably, as has been stated 
above, its advantage largely depends on a relative starvation, 
when compared with the previous diet. The patient no longer 
overeats. Vegetarians claim that they live longer and are healthier, 
physically and morally, than flesh-eaters. They may be healthier 
physically, if they have been subject previously to ailments due 
to an excess of nitrogenous food or overeating generally. The 
diet is more suited to those engaged in hard physical work, for 
they sweat freely and get rid of the excess of water in the diet, 
and they require much carbo-hydrate food to provide for muscular 
energy. A sedentary person on a vegetarian diet is liable to 
develop a distended flatulent abdomen, watery blood, and diar- 
rhoea from the excessive peristalsis set up and the excess of waste 
products to be got rid of. A nutarian diet, is, on the other 
hand, more liable to cause constipation. 

The relative value of the vegetarian and the mixed diet is a 
question of protein digestibility and absorption. Practically 
all carbo-hydrate, except honey and the sugar in milk, is derived 
from the vegetable world. Fat comes from both sources. Can 
the vegetable world supply the necessary protein in a suitable 



198 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

form ? The protein derived from the animal world is in a concen- 
trated, digestible and assimilable form. That from the veget- 
able world is in an unduly bulky form or, if concentrated, very 
indigestible. Dried lean beef will contain as much as 87, and 
fat beef 51 per cent of protein. Pea flour contains at most 27 
per cent, wheat flour 16 per cent, and rice flour 7 per cent. If 
an average man lived on pea flour containing protein 20, carbo- 
hydrate 60, fat 1*5 per cent, he would have to consume twenty 
large bowls of pea-soup, each containing one ounce of the flour, 
in order to take 120 grammes of protein a day. This would 
provide 9 grammes of fat, 360 of carbo-hydrate, and a calorie value 
of about 2,000. If the soup were made with milk, the number 
of bowls might be reduced to six, each containing one ounce of 
flour and half a pint of milk. The total yield would be ; pro- 
tein 110, fat 75, carbo-hydrate 190 grammes, calories 1,900. 
This is more of a milk diet than a vegetarian one. The calorie 
value of three pints of milk is about 1,200. By adding eggs, 
cheese, bread and butter the amount of pea-soup could be still 
further reduced. 

By choosing suitable pulses, nuts and cereals, a diet can be 
devised which is devoid of animal food and not very bulky. The 
nuts would have to be relied on for fats. Vegetarian, fruitarian, 
or nutarian diets are much better when combined with eggs, milk 
and milk products. 

Animal proteins appear to develop mental energy and in- 
crease the bodily resistance to disease better than vegetable 
ones. The meat-eating races are physically more powerful, more 
intellectual and more progressive than others. Carnivorous 
animals seem to have a vital energy which is more alert than that 
of the herbivorous and cereal feeders. 

The digestibility of foods depends on composition and bulk. 
A diet of bread and vegetables is more bulky than a mixed diet 
and mechanically interferes with digestion. Green vegetables, 
many tubers and most fruits have been shown to contain little 
nutriment in comparison with their bulk. Cellulose is indigest- 
ible, innutritious, and interferes with the mixing of the digestive 
juices with the nutritive materials in the food. Mechanically, 
a large amount of material has to be dealt with, driven through 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 199 

the alimentary canal, and got rid of. Hence arise the large 
abdomens of vegetable feeders, e.g. cattle, horses at grass, 
etc., the " potato-belly '" of the Irish, and the large stools. 
The increased bulk needs increased peristalsis, a liberal blood 
and nervous supply to the viscera, and an undue expendi- 
ture of nervous energy on the digestive processes. To com- 
pensate for slow digestion herbivorous animals have huge 
caeoums and a longer alimentary canal than carnivora and 
mixed feeders. . 

Absorbability varies inversely as the amount of cellulose 
present and directly with the quality of the cooking. An Ameri- 
can observation on a diet of fruit and nuts showed that the follow- 
ing percentages were absorbed : protein 82'5, fat 86' 9, non-nitro- 
genous substances 96. Tofu, a Soy bean preparation made in 
Japan, consists chiefly of bean protein precipitated in combination 
with magnesium and calcium salts, and has a co-efficient of digesti- 
bility for protein of 96, fat 97, carbo-hydrate 88 per cent. These 
must be compared with the absorbability of (1) Animal Diet : 
protein, 100 ; fat, 80-90 ; (2) Mixed Diet : protein, 92-5 ; fat, 95 ; 
carbo-hydrate, 97*5. The results are in favour of the mixed or 
animal diet, but depend partly on the preparation of the food. 
Prolonged vegetarianism does not improve the absorptive capa- 
city and the waste of nitrogen is considerable, much being lost 
in the faeces. 

The cost of cooking is a serious item in the vegetarian diet. 
Although many of the foods are cheap, in comparison with 
animal foods, they may contain so little nutriment that from 
the point of view of nutritive value they are very expensive. 
Cooked celery and onions contain hardly any nutriment. The 
cost of cooking and the fuel bill is very much greater. 

Protein food is essential for growth during early life, and the 
effect of deficiency is shown in the relatively stunted development 
of the poor as compared with those who obtain a proper food 
supply. That animal protein is the proper kind to take is sug- 
gested by the fact that the proper diet for the infant is the mother's 
milk or that of some other animal. Under a system of universal 
vegetarianism it has been shown that the supply of milk would 
be small and quite out of reach of the poor. Later on in life 



200 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

it is probable that quite two-thirds of the necessary protein can 
be taken in vegetable forms. 

The lack of resistance to disease is obvious when the diet is 
devoid of sufficient protein or of animal protein. Thus, phthisis 
and epidemics are common among the Irish poor and the lower 
classes of large towns. Possibly this would not be so evident 
if the diet could be enriched in protein and fat by means of pulses 
and nuts. The protein value of a fruit and nut diet is small. Jaffa 
in California found that in two subjects 8 grammes of nitrogen, 
and in two others 10 grammes, were sufficient to maintain nitrogen- 
ous equilibrium. Such figures have been found by Chittenden 
sufficient for all classes of people and, if we accept his conclusions, 
the amount of protein required for the daily ration can be reduced 
to one-half the accepted standard. The amount varies in different 
individuals and in the same individual at different times. Further, 
it is doubtful whether it is wise to live on a minimum diet of 
protein food, for protein tissues are only built up slowly from 
the protein consumed, and loss of nitrogen is only slowly replaced. 
Nevertheless, the subjects of Jaffe's observation had maintained 
excellent health for years, though they did not look robust. 

A fruitarian diet is very suitable during an acute illness, such 
us pneumonia, and should consist of : 

Milk, 2 oz. every 2 hours ; cold, warm, never boiled ; diluted- 
The juice of grapes, oranges and pine-apple ; grapes, bananas* 
cooked apples, etc. 

White of egg. Egg lemonade, i.e. the whole of one egg, half a 
lemon, half a pint of water, and sugar. 

The ordinary fruitarian diet of fruit and nuts must be modified 
in accordance with the foods in season and their composition. 
Nuts supply the protein and fat. Chestnuts and bananas pro- 
vide the carbo-hydrates. All fruits will yield some carbohydrates 
.and protein. Acid fruits should be taken in moderation. 
Stone fruits sometimes disagree. Lemon juice should be used 
in preference to vinegar for salads, as less likely to cause dyspepsia. 
The excess of potassium salts must be counteracted by common 
salt. Nuts should be well ground up in a nut mill. Food should 
be eaten slowly and not more than three meals a day taken. 
Two meals are sufficient. It is not advisable to omit milk. 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 201 

Chittenden made observations on a man, aged sixty-three, a 
fruitarian for 20 years, who did a little gardening and walked 
four to eight miles daily. At times he took a little vegetable 
and cereal food. The average daily intake of fruit and nuts 
yielded protein 40, fat 54, carbo-hydrate 286 grammes, crude 
fibre 56 ; calorie value 1,700. 

Vegetarian diet (Chittenden) of a man, aged 38, weight 
61 kilos : 

First meal : Oatmeal, 227 grammes ; butter, 10 ; sugar, 35 ; milk, 

60, coffee, 210. 
Second meal : Macaroni, 142 ; cheese, 10 ; bread, 71 ; sweet potato, 

119; milk, 250. 
Third meal: Bread, 80; butter, 20; mashed potato, 176; string 

beans, 77 ; apple-pie, 82 ; milk, 250. 
Total nitrogen, 10 grammes. N-excretion in urine 8.5 grammes. Calories 

over 2,000. 

Caspari and Glaessner found the nitrogen was 8' 27 grammes, 
fat 21 8 - 9 grammes, and the calorie value 4 - 554, of a vegetarian 
diet which consisted of coffee 20, sugar 40, grapes 230, nuts 
113, oil 154, potatoes 1,005 and carrots 30 grammes. 

Fletcher, weighing 57' 3 kilos, took ten meals daily, and gained 
O 1 2 kilos in spite of considerable exercise, on a diet containing 1,300 
calories of heat. It consisted of potatoes 159' 4, eggs 124*7, 
milk 710, cream 237 grammes. While under Chittenden's observa- 
tion and weighing 165 Ibs. he took a diet of protein 45, fat 38, 
carbo-hydrate 25' 3, calories 1,600, in the shape of milk, cereal food 
and maple sugar. Weight and nitrogenous equilibrium were 
maintained and he was capable of hard exercise. Such cases 
support the contention that the limitation of the diet is one 
reason of the success of vegetarianism and allied methods of 
feeding. 

These diets are suitable for the constipated and the corpulent, 
because of the large residue and the small nutriment. If they 
do not remedy the constipation they do harm by increasing the 
amount of waste matter. They are sometimes useful in the 
rheumatic and gouty diatheses ; for migraine, recurrent head- 
aches, neuralgias ; for neurasthenia, epilepsy and hysteria, if 
dependent on intestinal toxins derived from meat ; in nervous 
insomnia, exophthalmic goitre, chronic alcoholism, functional 



202 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

cases of dyspepsia and intestinal disorders ; and in some skin 
diseases. 

Diets of this nature should be commenced gradually and 
may be continued for six weeks at a time, if beneficial, and in a 
more or less modified form for the remainder of life. 



THE GRAPE CURE 

The grape cure is usually carried out at places like Meran 
and Montreux, but is available wherever grapes can be obtained. 
It is a mode of treatment which depends for its good results on 
change of diet and manner of life, the climate and surroundings, 
and the aperient effect of the grapes. When aided by a good 
supporting diet it is suitable for the overworked, the weak and 
the convalescent. In conjunction with a spare diet, limited 
particularly as to fat and carbo-hydrates, it is valuable in obesity. 
The laxative effects render it suitable for cases of abdominal 
plethora ; for passive congestion of the abdominal viscera due 
to heart disease, chronic bronchitis and emphysema, and hepatic 
affections ; for piles and for chronic constipation. It may also be 
of value in the treatment of gastric and intestinal catarrh, vesical 
catarrh, calculus, gouty concretions, and malarial cachexia. 
As a cure for phthisis its value depends on climatic conditions 
and liberal feeding. 

Konig gives the composition of grapes as : water, 78*19 ; nitro- 
genous matter, 0'59 ; free acids, 0'79 ; sugar, 14- 36 ; other non- 
nitrogenous substances, T96 ; cellulose and pips, 3' 60, mineral 
ash, 0*53. The salts are chiefly potash salts, and salts of lime 
and magnesia. The percentage of sugar varies considerably 
in different grapes and is often as much as to 20 to 30. 

Mode of treatment. Begin with half a pound of grapes when 
fasting, or an hour or two after a light breakfast, and again at 
5 p.m. In three days give a third half pound at noon, or after 
the midday meal, it there is dyspepsia. Gradually increase the 
dose to one pound at a time. The aperient effects are manifest 
in a few days. It is rarely advisable to give more than two 
pounds in lung cases ; three pounds in gastric and intestinal 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 203 

catarrh, the diet being carefully regulated at the same time ; 
and four pounds in other conditions ; but the amount may be 
increased to five or six pounds for abdominal plethora, hepatic 
constipation and chronic constipation. Figs and prunes can be 
added to relieve the monotony of the diet. The course of treat- 
ment lasts for six weeks. Small quantities of white bread may 
be eaten after the grapes to remove acids from the teeth and, 
if the gums become irritated, the mouth should be rinsed out 
with bicarbonate of soda solution. 



TUFNELL'S DIET 

Tufnell's treatment of aneurism is a modification of the 
methods adopted by Albertini and Valsalva, who treated their 
patients by bleeding, rest and modified diet. Bellingham omitted 
the bleeding and devised the method of treatment in 1852, and 
it was continued by Tufnell, who published a monograph on it 
in 1875. The objects are the reduction of the force and frequency 
of the heart's action, and to favour the deposition of fibrin on 
the wall of the aneurismal sac. The coagulability of the blood 
is not increased. The treatment is only suitable for cases of 
saccular aneurism, unassociated with disease of the aortic valve, 
and for patients who are sufficiently intelligent to understand 
the importance of carrying it out strictly, and have sufficient 
strength of will to put up with its discomforts. 

Valsalva kept his patients in bed for forty days, on a limited 
diet, and bled them frequently. Tufnell recommended 8-12 
weeks recumbency. Bellingham's diet is much the same as 
Tufnell's. 

Bellingham. Tufnell. 

First meal. Milk or tea, 2 oz. Milk or cocoa, 2 oz. 

Bread, 2 oz. Bread and butter, 2 oz. 

Second meal. Liquid, 2-4 oz. Water or light claret, 4 oz. 

Bread, 1-2 oz. Bread or potato, 3 oz. 

Meat, 1-2 oz. Boiled or broiled meat, 3 oz. 

Third meal. Liquid, 2 oz. Milk or tea, 2 oz. 

Solid, 2 oz. Bread and butter, 2 oz. 

Tufnell's diet contains 8 ounces of fluid and 10 of solids. These 
amounts need not be strictly adhered to. Thus, a suitable diet 



204 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

for a nine stone man would be meat 3-4 oz., bread 2 oz., potato 
| oz., butter oz. A heavier patient might have double the 
quantity of all the different articles mentioned, except the meat. 
Occasionally the treatment results in complete cure. The 
patient should rest on a water bed and remain absolutely still, 
doing nothing whatever for himself, a restriction which few 
people have the strength of will to adhere to. The mouth may 
become so dry and parched that even the limited amount of 
solids cannot be taken. Sucking a pebble or button will 
relieve the thirst a little. Another great trial to the patient 
is painful micturition, because of the extreme acidity of the 
urine. It can be reduced by alkalies. Constipation must be 
relieved by oil enemata, if necessary. There is so little waste 
matter in the food that an action of the bowels once a week 
is sufficient. The heart and aneurism must be carefully watched. 
If the pulse becomes more and more frequent, the patient restless, 
and the dryness of the mouth so great that he is unable to take 
food, the treatment must be modified. It has largely fallen into 
disuse because good results are so infrequent. Hospital patients 
are particularly unsuited. The aneurism is usually dependent 
on atheroma from strain or syphilis, is frequently associated 
with aortic disease, and self-control, especially in the matter 
of drink, is lacking. Judging by the results of hospital treatment 
the diet is almost useless, and for this reason most physicians 
condemn it. The principle may be adopted to a less severe 
extent. Much benefit is derived from limitation of the fluids to 
about one pint and of food to half, or less than half of the usual 
allowance. 



THE WEIR MITCHELL DIET 

Weir Mitchell's treatment for neurasthenia and disorders 
of malnutrition, independent of organic disease, depends on 
isolation, massage and overfeeding. The isolation and the 
moral effect which can be exerted on the patient, to stimulate 
the will power, are the main factors. A liberal diet is given 
consisting of milk 3-4 pints, meat - pounds, eggs 4-6, bread, 



DIET CURES AND SPECIAL DIETS 205 

potatoes, sweets, vegetables and butter ; enough to yield protein 
150-200 grammes, fat 75-100 grammes, carbo-hydrates 400-500 
grammes, and calories 3,500-4,500. 



THE TRAINING DIET 

A few words may be added about the diet of athletes. Usually 
it has been based on an excessive supply of meat, on the assump- 
tion that the wear and tear of muscular tissue is great and that 
meat is the source of strength and less fattening than other 
foods. The nervous energy of carnivora is quoted in this con- 
nexion. Although the race-horse is the fastest animal for a 
reasonable distance, the carnivora can maintain a short burst 
of speed which is even greater. Possibly a liberal meat supply 
may be good for the short distance runner, but it certainly is 
not a suitable diet for prolonged exertion. The general principles 
of training are the reduction of weight by the removal of super- 
fluous fat, and the improvement of the tone of the muscles and 
heart, inducing " long wind " and endurance. 

Chittenden's experiments on athletes strongly support the 
view that a high protein diet is unnecessary. The average 
daily N-excretion of eight athletes on a reduced protein diet 
was 8" 81 grammes for the lot. The average for each individual 
ranging from 7'39 to 10'07 grammes. This 8*81 grammes of 
urinary nitrogen is obtained from a protein intake of 55 
grammes. The results were much the same as in soldiers on 
a prescribed diet. The strength of the athletes was markedly 
increased. They all felt more efficient. The meals were selected 
from the articles mentioned below. 

Breakfast. Coffee, rolls and butter; bananas, fruit; hominy with 
sugar and cream, farina, Indian meal, baked potato, boiled rice, or 
oatmeal. 

Lunch. Coffee, bread and butter ; spaghetti, potato, stewed tomato, 
boiled onions, string beans, fried hominy and syrup, oysters, 
cold tongue, baked apple. 

Dinner. Soup : pea, cream of celery, bean, tomato ; fish, bacon, 
sausage, chicken, lamb chop, steak ; fried or boiled potatoes, spinach, 
lettuce, celery, apple salad, Lima beans ; cream puffs. 



206 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



Such a diet, when compared with some of the diets taken 
by boat crews, football teams and " strong men " is extraordin- 
arily small and suggests that the latter are grossly overfed. 





i 

Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Calories. 


Boat crew (America) 


Grms. 
. . . 155 
. . . 224 


Grms. 

177 
151 


Grms. 
440 
502 


Grins. 
4,085 
4,462 


Football team ... 


. i 181 


292 


557 


5 740 




. . ; 270 


416 


710 


7,885 













The training diet should be a mixed one of proteins, fats and 
carbo-hydrates ; divided into three meals a day which should 
be of simple, easily digestible food, and should be eaten very slowly 
so as to ensure efficient mastication. There is no objection to 
the use of tea, coffee, cocoa, beer and light wines in moderation. 
On the whole, water is better than stimulants. No one food 
should be decreased unduly, except that in hot weather, and 
to a less extent in cold, the fats should be reduced and partly 
replaced by carbo-hydrates. Sugar is a most valuable source of 
muscular energy. Miners in hard work consume large quantities. 
Probably coffee and sugar is the best stimulant and food to take 
before entering on a prolonged trial of endurance. 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 



CHAPTER VI 

PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 
BY EDMUND CAUTLEY, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

A "proprietary" or "patent" food is one which is made 
from one or more simple articles of diet, and is more or less modified 
in the process of preparation. These foods may be made from 
milk or milk products ; from carbo-hydrates, with or without 
a basis of milk ; from meat, fish, or eggs ; from vegetables, 
fruits, or nuts ; and occasionally from fatty substances. In 
some cases the food is merely modified, in the relative percentages 
of its component parts. In others, one or more of the different 
constituents are separated and altered. In some, partial or 
complete predigestion of the natural food is carried out. Most 
of them are subjected to the action of heat. A few are pre- 
pared by what is known as " the cold process." Judging by 
the huge sums of money spent on advertising these food special- 
ties, there must be an enormous sale, and it becomes necessary 
to investigate the claims which are made on their behalf from 
the standpoints of nutritive value, economic worth, and aesthetic, 
mental, and social considerations. The majority of these foods 
are advertised as specially valuable for the feeding of infants. 
These will be considered in conjunction with other foods of 
similar composition and their value then commented on. Some 
foods are merely altered sufficiently to render them more diges- 
tible, palatable and nutritious ; or to make them less bulky, 
for the purposes of travelling. 

The value of reduction in bulk is considerable in the case of 
condensed milk, dried and compressed vegetables, meat powders 
and pemmican. The claims of meat preparations are generally 
based on the theory that there is a great concentration of 
nutriment in little bulk. Many well-known advertisements 

409 14 



210 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

make an appeal to the imagination and lack of intelligence of 
the public. It is an appeal which is described in philosophy as the 
suggestio falsi. 

It may be definitely and positively stated that proprietary 
foods are not necessary, either in sickness or in health. They are 
neither more nutritious nor more easy to take than the home- 
made modifications, which can be easily prepared from the 
common articles of diet, except in the case of some foods which 
are predigested or contain partially converted starch. Nor can 
they be regarded as of special value because of their appetising 
properties. The meat preparations are powerful stimulants 
of the secretion of gastric juice, but they have no more value 
in this respect than ordinary beef -tea and clear soups. 

Nevertheless, proprietary foods are sometimes useful on account 
of their high cost, their pleasant flavour and their variety. A 
patient can generally be induced to take regularly some special 
oat food, in the form of porridge for breakfast, or some pro- 
prietary carbo-hydrate food at bedtime, instead of the ordinary 
porridge, milk, or gruel. Some of the meat jellies are indirectly 
useful, when it is advisable to partially starve a patient, for 
they are regarded by the public as extremely nutritious foods. 
Partial predigestion of starchy foods is valuable for children 
and adults, but is of doubtful service when applied to meat 
foods. The peptonization of protein in the stomach is depen- 
dent on pepsin and hydrochloric acid. If the gastric digestion 
of protein fail, it is due to deficiency of hydrochloric acid and 
not to lack of pepsin. When the pepsin is deficient it will be 
found that the secretion of acid is also defective. Apart from 
this it must be remembered that gastric digestion is not essential 
and that the stomach may be regarded merely as a receptacle 
of food. All foods can be digested fully in the intestines. On 
the other hand, the physiological arguments against the necessity 
for the predigestion of food are to a certain extent upset by 
practical experience. Partial predigestion, more especially 
in the case of milk proteins, is undoubtedly of very great ad- 
vantage in many diseases. From the economic point of view 
all these foods are much more expensive than common articles 
of diet of equal or greater nutritive value. So also the ordinary 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 211 

articles of diet, which are the most appetising and most delight- 
ful to the trained palate, are often enormously expensive in 
proportion to their nutritive value. The price is by no means 
everything, but is nevertheless a most important consideration 
for the poor. 

PURE FOODS 

Proprietary foods are sometimes ordered with a view to 
increasing the quantity of some particular primary food-stuff 
in the diet, whether protein, fat, or carbo-hydrate. Yet there 
are ordinary articles of diet, almost universally available, which 
will provide all that is needed. 

Assuming that an extra amount of protein food is required, 
it can be given in the form of white of egg, dried meat powder, 
or junket made from skimmed milk. The egg and junket are 
purin-free foods. Meat powders can be bought with advan- 
tage in the form of a proprietary food. The extra cost is out- 
weighed, perhaps, by the trouble involved in making such a 
food at home. So, too, milk proteins can be obtained, in a 
purer form than junket, from the makers of the various prepara- 
tions of dried milk casein. As a general rule it is unnecessary 
to increase the amount of protein in the diet beyond what is 
being taken in the ordinary diet. Three pints of milk will 
supply enough protein for most people when in bed. Occa- 
sionally meat powders or dried milk foods are useful additions 
to the diet of patients who can only take liquid or semi-solid 
foods, as in the case of cesophageal obstruction. Fats are 
available in the form of pure olive oil, butter (80 per cent fat), 
margarine, dripping and cream. Mutton fat is less easily digested 
and absorbed than other fats, especially when hot, more passing 
out in the stools. 

Extra carbo-hydrates can be given in the form of cane sugar, 
milk sugar, honey, treacle or golden syrup, and maple syrup. 
Barley sugar and sugar candy are practically pure preparations 
of sugar. Toffee, too, is a valuable sweet, being a mixture 
of butter and sugar, the latter considerably inverted in cooking 
rendered more apt for digestion. 



212 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

THE COMPOSITION OF HONEY. 

Water - 13-16 

Invert Sugar ....... 74-78 

Cane Sugar .... ... 2'69 

Protein ... . 1'30 

Mineral ash . . . . . . . 0'12 

Malt extract contains from 60 to 70 per cent of carbo- 
hydrates, of which about three-fourths is sugar. It costs four 
times as much as honey and its calorific value is less. 

Proprietary foods may be classified as follows : 

L Prepared from cows' milk. 

A. Condensed milk, without added sugar. 

B. Condensed milk, with added sugar. 

C. Dried milk preparations. 

D. Predigested milk. 

E. Modified milk. 

n. Cows' milk with carbo-hydrate (cereal) additions. 

A. The starch practically unchanged. 

B. The starch partly or entirely converted into soluble 

carbo-hydrates, viz. dextrins, maltose and dextrose. 

C. The milk partially digested, or the food contains fer- 

ments which partially or entirely convert the protein 
and starch during preparation. 

III. Carbo-hydrate foods. 

A. Starch, practically unchanged. 

B. Starch, partially changed into soluble carbo-hydrates. 

C. Starch, completely changed. 

D. Malt extracts. 

IV. Nitrogenous foods. 

(1) From meat. 

A. Meat Teas. 

B. Meat Extracts. 

C. Meat Juices. 

D. Peptone Preparations. 

E. Meat Powders. 

(2) From fish. 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 213 

(3) From vegetable foods. 

(4) From vegetable and animal substances. 

V. Fatty foods. 

VL Combination foods. 

A. Fat and protein. 

B. Fat and carbo-hydrate. 

C. Fat, protein and carbo-hydrate. 

The composition of the different foods is given in the 
following tables arranged in alphabetical order, for the purpose 
of reference. The analyses are those deemed most reliable, but 
must not be taken as being absolutely accurate. 



214 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 















H 




d 


































O 




1 


































| 






































IS 




S 


































1 




-3 
S 


































-3 




^3 



































s 




i 








. 
















J 















Ai 








bC 














i 

03 


S 

i 


j 




1 
1 


i 


< 












.S 


. 












M 







a 


n 


H 

3 


* 













1 


3 
c 






JS 




^ 


3 






y 


-* 


s 






*2 








ft 


03 






o 




tL 


i 

s 

i 
|i 




00 

03 
bfi 

O 


s 


1 

05 

1 
f 

"I 

1 


s 

1 


Analysis by Freseni 
Food. 


1 

Is 

i"^ Q 


Much cane sugar. 


Much cane sugar. 


a 
1 

c 

X! 


& 

1 

D 
T3 

g 
i 


Much unchanged st 


A wholemeal flour. 


Contains much star 


"3 

a 


Much unaltered stai 


" 05 


. 




00 V 


: c 


: 


l-H O 


O O 


l-H 


<N 


f- 


CO 





o 


CO 


IQ 


o 


2 


a 


5J 


O r- 


- 


5 


OO tf 


5 




"N 


o 


o 


CS 


o 


OS 


00 






< 73" 


< 


O 


* CO O 


CO CO 





i-H 


(M 


(N 


o 


CO 


6 


l-H 


(N 





EH 






































K +1 

>-l CO 


JJS 




O 






* 




I-H 


O 


00 




o 


o 


o 








PH "S 


I 




i-H 






?' 




OS 


o 


Tt* 




co 




CO 




1 




o 


t 3 


O 


l-H 






i-H 




C^l O 


6 


CS 


O 


CO 


I-H 


6 


s 




1 


o 


03 
'S 


U s 


T* 1 












co oo 


CO 


<N 


o 


CO 


-* 


r- 




. 




00 


* 


OS 












G^ 






^4 















CD 


^ 


n 5 




. 


: c 


5 


-$ c 


> 


"^ oo 


o 


CO 


00 


^^ 


l-H 












fc o 


^ 3 




K5 





^ 




H 


(N 


CO 


^ 




os 


i-H 












"S 


1 -2 




l CO t-- 


t- <N 


<N 


IO 


cb 




OS 


00 








|i. 




2 


j 
w 00 




co co 


co f 




CM 


* 


"* 






<N 








00 




i 1 




O 


os o O 


T* O 




i-H 


i-H 


o 


o 


CO 


o 


<N 


t^ 


O 


B J 


-4J 


l-H 


l> C 


5 c 





os e< 


5 




00 


OS 






*o 


c 


3 


CS 


(N 


oo 


oo -r 

O ^ 


K 


<N 


CO T^ C^J 

l-H i-H 


l-H I-H 


i 1 i-H 


U5 


* 


o 


I-H 


U3 


(N 


CO 


O 


<N 


& *~ 
























o ^ 


| 


g 


O O co 
1> t 1C 


CO O 


CO O 
CO <M 


TP 




CO 


o 

I-H 


CO 


05 
CO 





o 


o 

CO 


O 


H . 


1 


OS 


O CS l-H 
|"H 


O OS 

i-H 


CS 

l-H 




l-H 


o 

i-H 


* 




i-H 


CO 




OS 


CD 


ib 


(N 

l-H 


r, ^ 
~ 00 


I 


S 


(MOO 
OO t^* CO 


<M OS 





00 
CO 


O 





OS 





o 


o 

<N 


o 
o 


O 

OS 


l-H 


CB 


00 


i 1 U 


3 C 


Q 


CM CO 


CO CD 


3 


CO 


os 


i-H 


JQ 


00 


f 


4^4 


f-. 


1 


^ 






00 










1 1 















. 




. 















. 


. 






















3 






































"8 




































1 


1 




, 


1 


O 

1 




73 
O 

1 


1 




( 


, 


fe 


^0 


1 


^ 

& 


1 









F 


H 




-.] 




CO 




o 






(*) 






03 


0) 


T* 




i 


o 


d 

fe 


1 






I 

CO 


& 
$ 

-H 





i 
1 


'o 

QC 

CO 


,c 

E 

00 


4> 

1 

_ 


"3 


"3 






fe 

1 


" 


1 




'1 




JB 

c 


i 

_o 


| 

6 


03 

.S 



r. 00 

03 
bC 




1 


03 

_c 
'-3 


03 

_c 


CO 

ja 

Q 









o 

3 








1 


1 


1 


03 

M 


6 


1 




'o 

6 


6 


I 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 



215 





| 










i 
















. 


00 






1 




a, 






























c" 






E 











O 




o 
















* 






-M 


C 




" 






J5 




i 

























a 




5 






3 




<N U5 














M 


3 




S 

Q 


- 




lade sol 




00 


claimed 




O 

, 


o 
6 












T3 


(N 
CO 

FH 




1 

"8 


g 
1 




B 






3 




|; 


2 


i 






1 






:i 


t 







O 




3 


S' 


a 


^03 
ji 

(H 




o 


s 
a 


"3 












i 


a 







a 


1 

i 


o 


Carbo-hydrates said 
tion. 


Practically milk sug 


o 
o 
I 


ee 

1 

^2 
15 



a 


I 

.S 

J3 
O 

09 

O 


i 

OQ 

O 

c 

"o 

3 

a 


Desiccated milk, 50- 
malt, 23-00 ; and 


Almost completely i 


-3 

a 

i 


1 

ip 

o 
hi 




Is 
'3 


J 

(N 

CO 

cH 


o 

CO ^ 


Made in Germany. 


Made from nuta and 


L 

ii 

u 

jj 

5| 

<; 







1 C 


S 


o 


CO 
OS 


^ 


O OS 
00 (M 


1 


00 





8 





(M 

CO 


S 


eo 
d 


S 


i 


l-H 


I-H 


FH 


M 


o 


l-H 


CO O 




I-H 


l-H 


i-H 


i-H 


U5 


r* 


<N 


FH 


N 










CO 


CD 


00 




o 






(M 








o 


CD 










1 




os 


00 


FH 




(M 


1 




(M 








CO 


t^ 




1 


f,. 


O 


1 




^t* 


O 







O^ 


1 


O 


O 


O 






eo 


O 


o 


1 


9 






cs 


to 


CO 










i-H 


t- 


ip 






* 


to 


00 




5' 


00 


8 


OS 


CO 
CO 


OS 

o 


i-H 00 

(N CO 


CO 
00 


s 


O 
OS 





o 

00 





CO 


FH 


5 


CO 
* 






cq 




<M 


CD 


OS tf 


t 


CO 


eo 




U5 




1 


( 


t^. 


CO 




O 






os 




(M 




CD 






00 








>o 


CO 


<N 




<* 


eo 


o 

CO 


o 


g 


^ 


O 

f- 


r- o 

00 CD 


co 


O 
<N 


o 

i-H 


CD 



CO 


r- 

00 


00 
CO 


OS 
CD 


8 


M 
eo 


o 


I-H 


o 


CO 


o 


co 


00 O 


o 


O 


o 


O 


* 


s 





1-1 


s 


12 


o 


o 

CD 


os 


o 


OS 

CO 


g 


O O 











os 



CO 


8 


CO 

o 


<N 


o 


CO 

o 


CO 


*? 


** 


00 


CO 

1^ 


CO 

FH 


>O I 

1 1 




i-H 


t- 


>0 




i-H 


o 

l-H 


s 


FH 
FH 


CO 

FH 


t- 


00 


CO 


O 
CO 


S 


8 


(M 

CD 


CO 


S3 


o 


o 
t> 


o 





g 


00 

os 


00 
CO 


CO 


s 


eo 


<M 


00 


*o 


t>. 


t^. 


*< 


(M O. 


i 


OS 


co 


gq 


i-H 


10 


eo 


FH 


00 


4j> 


*f 


01 












O* 








l-H 








OI 


M 


















































l 


. 


, 


. 




. 






. 










c 














a 
























a 














. T 













t 










JC 


C 






n 




























-i 


1 





Farina . 


T3 

1 

1 

09 








I 

.i 

E 


J*.t5 

So 

^3 ~, 

Q CD 

ll 


g 



"3 


g 



1 

A 


<N 


1 


PH 


T3 

1 

i- 

cS 




6 

fc 


g 

FH 

1 
1 t 


's Vegetable 


S 
1 


Cremalto 


Diastased 


Fairchild' 


Falona . 


a 

cS 




Franco-Si 


Horlick's 
(ready 


Horlick's 


<a 


O 

S 


[3 

M 


M 

1 

M 


3 
C 
1 


s 

m 

o 


Kufeke's 


i 


Looflund' 



216 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 







1 


i 




S 

O 




co* 

CO 




3 -a 
i 












"o 






1 
1 


I 

00 

a 

2 


9 

c 


B 




cc 
-fe 




as 
2 S 

aj 






"S 






1 

CO 








o 




/n 




X 




a 






<*^ 






TJ . 






& 


.* 


o 


1 


vV 


. 






1 






3 S8 
eg o 






rH 


o 


^^3 
S 

"5 T3 
O 


1 

^ 


mixing 


1 & 
jjg> 






(S 
V 

1 






a 

r. 
3 

5)0 
3 O 
co 5iO 




a 


S 


rrt 




-4J 






bO 


Q* t+^ 















DS (continued). 


Remarl 


Lancet analysis : Composi 
cereals ; no starch. 


Desiccated milk and malte< 


Analysis by makers. The 
sources. It is a desiccs 
wlieat and barley. 


Desiccated milk with malt 
and cane sugar 25 per cei 


Complete conversion durin 


Analysis by Stutzer and ] 
milk, powdered white o 
lactose. 


Practically all stardh. 


Mainly starch. 


j 

d 

i 



"3 

6 


A granulated wheat flour. 


tf 

I 

OQ 


Calcium phosphate, cane 
potato, rice, arrowroot, f 


o 






























o 


. 


00 OS 




u 


5 t- O 


eo 


(M 


CO OS 


OS 


>o 




o 


^ 


<N 


fe 


o3 


00 OS 




^ 


. rH 00 


O 




T}< CO 


p 


t> 




* 


' 


<N 





^ 


eo <jci 


^ 


c< 


5 CO CO 


M 





o^ o^ 


rH 


rH 





6 


CO 


* 


5 




1C A 












OS 


co 


eo 


^ 






o 


t^ 


00 


H 


-^ o 








CO 




CO 


p 




O} 






CO 


o 


OS 


S 


| 1 

1 


OS P 
00 O 


o 

OS 




9 s 

CO 




2 


os 


S3 


s 


i 


8 


00 


(N 


CO 


o 

s 

PH 


H . 

<c 

1 1 


to co 


o 


00 O O 


CO 
OS 





^3 


i-M 


* 


CO 


1 


o 


00 










6 


owe 


} 


00 





- 


"*"*" 






1 


cb 


CO 


o 


OQ 






CO t"- 00 




(M 


w 










t> 


o 





O OS 
9 T" 


? 


OO OS Q 
rH (M t) 


s 


00 


00 

rH OO 


g 


o 


o 

eo 


8 


00 
OS 


a 




A 


rH t> 


IQ 


66 g 


IO 


PH 


>O 1O 


rH 


1 ( 


6 


rH 


rH 


rH 


B 




rH rH 






43 





















GO 

2 




c 

1 


I> OS 

O 7"* 


O 

IT- 


O OO OS 


CO 


00 


OS *# 

rH CO 


i 


o 

t> 


o 

OS 


O 




O 


CO 


1 
o 


1 


PH rH 


00 


6 i> t- 

rH 


rt 


rH 


rH rH 


CO 


^ 


>h 

rH 


OS 


rH 


<N 


H 


fe 


5O CO 


o 


t^ CO C 


rH 


* 


CO CO 


CO 


o 


O 


o 


O 


10 


= 


-2 


CO CO 


OO 


e 


O rH S 





00 


00 


t- co 


p 


Os 


00 


os 


CO 


00 


.H 


I 


<NrH 


do 


(53 co CD 


CO 


6 


** 


to 




PH 


CO 


6 

rH 


CO 


b 












I 








' 































rfl 














. 
















9 











CO 




i 




1 











' 


K 











.'2 







. 


fe 


. 


5 


. 




*o 











7 s 

rH 






r^ 


43 

1 




2 




fc 


O 

CO 


I 


| 


1 








CD" 






.8 

9 
-3 


S 

rC 
1 


& 

o 


-2 


i 

a 


eaves 


^00 

"o 
_o 


" 


s 

a, 


j 

Ja 
g 


1 
1 






r? 




s 


S 


3 


fc 


r? 





O 


O ! & 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 



217 














O 






o 


o 























I 






i 


H 




1 


9 
5 
















T3 






13 


. 




i 


I 


























1> 




I 


i 


















1 






1 


i 




i 


1 


















bo 

41 






4 


| 




g 


i 


















o 




_ 


w 






> 


JS 












J 


i 




S 




3 

g 


s 


F 

.5 r- 




a 


1 












I 


1 








E 






















1 


! 









O 





18 = 










1 






1 




"s 


. 


13 

s 




S 





11 




1 


c 












o 

5 




"i 


73 




g 




-3 


O 

11 




.2 
.2 


1 












1 


: 


^2 






B 


^ 


= . 




CO 












1 

"3 

'3 


1 

o 

T) 
S 


T3 

o 
E 


o 

- 3 
II 


-*i 




esiccated mil 
sugar. 


ore concentr 
fat is partly 


JS 

i 

go 


-3 



i 


1 

1 

73 ^ 










^ 





o 


^ 






Q 


E 


1 


H 


PH 










8 


o 


CO 
OS 


9 




? 


5 


10 


g 


00 O 
O 00 


FH 

CO 


1 









6 


p- 


4 


FH 


6 




FH 


CO 


CO 


FH 


6 * 


(N 


1 






6 


eo 

OS 


8 


s 


O CO 
O CO 


o 





CO 
CO 




1 1 


5 


t 
o 


i 







ha 


e 


1 


(U 


Tf CO 


00 


b 


^, 




1 1 


CO 


CO 


t- 


o 


** 


r- 




* 


*O CO | t** 




FH 


t* 




CO 


** 


CO 


*p 




















Ifi 








OS 

FH 


CO 


OS 






FH 


FH CO 

00 00 


1 


FH 

to 





** 


FH >O 

CD (N 


8 


CO 


00 


>o 






^ 


r- -r 


H 


1 


CO 


OS 




FH OS 


OS 


b 












<N r 


h 




5 






CO ^O 


CO 






CO 

co 


FH 





2 C 

O T 


< 


8 


8 


o 


o 


(M iO 


CO 


FH 




F> 

T 


4 

h 


8 


6 


6 


~6 





uo 


6 


(N 


OS O 


FH 


FH 


6 


6) 


SI 


o 

CO 


CO 

FH 


OS CO 


o 


FH 


s 


? 


CO CO 


W5 

00 


T* 1 






o 

FH 


OS 


F" 

- 


4 
4 





6 6s 

FH 


OS 


cb 


FH 


2 


eb * 


FH 
FH 


*" 









CO 
<N 


O 


o 


CO CO 


o 

00 


CO 

o 


E 


S 


ep Q 


CO 


9 


00 


o 


C5 


6 


6 


10 01 


5 


IQ 


IQ 


* 


00 


FH CQ 


* 


OS 







N 










5^ 


13 
















Pn 



















1 

w 


1 







1 s 








a 

a 





1 


1 


on's Groats 


43 

1 

00 

"c 


& Moore's 






s 

o 


EU-t's Infant 


1 

i 

w 


"9 

1 





1 

4 


1 


a Perfect F 


CO 

9 




t^ 


3 


1 


b 




jn 


1 


-g 


B 







t? 


j- 


fco 
-o 


IS 




I 


1 




1 


'S 

p 


1 

H 


'S 




1 


1 


1 


1 



.5 



218 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



I. FOODS PREPARED FROM COWS' MILK 

A. Condensed milk, without added sugar. This may be made 
from skimmed milk, whole milk, or milk enriched by the addition 
of cream. The milk is condensed to about one- third of its 
original bulk. 

THE COMPOSITION OF UNSWEETENED CONDENSED MILK. 



Brand. ! Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Lactose. 


Ash. 




Ideal . . 


62-00 


8-3 


12-4 


16-00 


1-3 




First Swiss . 


62-15 


9-9 


11-38 


14-44 


2-1 


Average of 4 analyses 














by skilled analysts. 


Peacock . 


64-05 





10-04 





T28 Lancet analysis. 


Viking 





8-9 


9-9 


13-3 





Chemical and Assay 














Laboratory. 


Hollandia 


57-00 


11-3 


9-8 


18-5 


3-4 






The Ideal brand is stated to be enriched 20 per cent by 
the addition of cream and is preserved by heat. The Viking 
brand is said to be made from absolutely pure fresh milk of 
cows grazed on the Norwegian Highlands. The analysis of 
the Hollandia milk shows that it is relatively poor in water 
and made from a milk which was poor in fat. 

These foods are valuable for travellers who do not like sugar 
in tea or coffee or who are debarred sugar. Sometimes they 
are useful in the treatment of infantile diarrhoea and other 
alimentary disorders, in which cane sugar is contra-indicated 
or only permissible in small amount. A dilution with two 
parts of water makes the mixture like cows' milk. Further 
dilution and the addition of cream and sugar are essential to 
make the fluid at all like human milk in percentage composition. 
It is generally necessary to add sugar in order to get the child 
to take the mixture. The addition of grape juice to the diet 
will counteract the evil effects due to the heat used in the prepara- 
tion of the food. 

If no chemical preservative is added, the milk soon turns 
sour when the tin is opened. This is a serious drawback to 
its use among the poor. Further, in proper dilution it is a 
much more expensive food than ordinary cows' milk. 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 



219 



B. Condensed milk with added cane sugar. The bulk of 
the samples of condensed milk in the market are made from 
milk, with the addition of large quantities of cane sugar to act 
as a preservative. The composition is very variable, for the 
original milk is skimmed milk, whole milk, or milk enriched by 
the addition of cream. Leeds gives the composition of fifteen 
varieties and the mean of 41 analyses of a good brand, as : 

THE COMPOSITION OP SWEETENED CONDENSED MILK (LEEDS). 





Minimum. 


Maximum. 


Average. 


Mean of 41 

Analyses. 




7'87 


10-91 


8'82 


16-07 


Fat 


7*64 


12-13 


8'67 


12-10 


Milk sugar 


10-00 


16-98 


11-66 


16-62 


Cane sugar ....... 


36-09 


42-65 


40-39 


22-26 


Mineral ash 


1-82 


2-15 


1-83 


2-61 


Milk solids 


28-37 


36-92 


31-71 


30-34 


Original milk fat 


3-06 


4-52 


3-69 















The average number of times condensed 2 '27 

These results show great variation in composition, but a 
still more serious defect is present in many samples, namely, 
a marked deficiency of fat in those made from skimmed milk. 
An analysis of seventeen samples by Bernard Dyer yielded 
the following percentages of fat in the various brands examined : 



Marguerite 
Tea . 
Gondola . 
Cup . . 
Goat. . 
Calf . 



0-42 
0-48 
0-48 
0-49 
0-56 
0-60 



Wheatsheaf . 
Swiss dairy 
Daily 
Clipper . 
Shamrock 
Cross. 



0-62 


Home . 


1-02 


0-63 
0-69 


Handy . 

Nutrient 


1-49 
2-36 


0-73 


Cow .... 


2-84 


0-79 
0-96 


As you like it . 


4-23 



Such brands as these may be useful as food, for culinary 
purposes, and for addition to tea, etc., but should certainly 
never be given for infants, unless it is temporarily advisable 
to omit fat from the diet. 

Some of the best sweetened condensed milks are Xestle's 
and the Anglo-Swiss Milkmaid brand, made both in England 
and Switzerland. Since the amalgamation of the companies 
making these brands, the Milkmaid Swiss and Nestte's Swiss 
milks have a similar composition, differing a little from that 



220 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



made in England. They are prepared under most careful super- 
vision from whole milk, which is obtained fresh from local in- 
spected farms, under stringent regulations as to proper cooling 
of the milk and general cleanliness. The sugar added is the 
purest obtainable and is still further purified at the factory 
to get rid of any dirt present. All the processes of conden- 
sation and tinning are carried out in the best possible manner, 
and in every respect these varieties are excellent specimens 
of condensed milk. There are other good brands. One of 
them, the Peacock brand, should be mentioned, for it contains 
only about half the amount of cane sugar usually added. The 
protein, lactose and cane sugar amount to a total of 43' 32 per 
cent (Lancet). Peacock condensed milk is made from whole 
milk and skimmed milk, so the two kinds must not be confused. 

THE COMPOSITION or SWEETENED CONDENSED MILKS. 





Total 
Solids. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Lactose. 


Sucrose. 


Ash. 


Nestle's 


73-7 


9-7 


11-5 


13-0 


37-5 


1-9 


Milkmaid (S) . . . 


73-7 


9-7 


11-5 


13-0 


37-5 


1-9 


(E) . . . 


75-5 


9-6 


10-1 


12-5 


41-5 


1-9 


Rose 


76-3 


9-7 


11-0 


14-6 


38-7 


2-3 


Full Weight . . . 


76-5 


12-3 


11-0 


13-5 


37-2 


2-5 


Anglo-Swiss 


74-4 


8-8 


10-8 


16-0 


37-1 


1-7 


Peacock .... 


63-3 





10-0 








2-0 



(S) Made in Switzerland. 



(E) Made in England. 



Humanized condensed milk is prepared by the addition 
of cream and lactose, before condensation, in such quantities as 
to form a solution, when suitably diluted, equivalent to human 
milk in percentage composition. 

The composition of condensed milk shows that it is a valuable 
article of diet. For adults and children beyond the period 
of infancy it is a safe and useful food, provided plenty of fat 
is obtained from other sources. It is, however, in its wide 
use as a food for infants, in the place of the maternal milk or 
the fresh milk of some other animal, that it causes widespread 
injury and deserves most serious criticism. 

The analyses of the best brands show that condensed milk, 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 221 

in the ordinary dilutions made use of, is grossly deficient in 
fat. If diluted beyond one part hi eight, it will also be deficient 
in protein and sugar, when compared with average human 
milk. And it is not a fresh food. It is generally much too 
diluted, forming a weak sugary solution, deficient in fat and 
protein. The weakness of the mixture is to some extent com- 
pensated by the greater quantity taken, and its easy diges- 
tibility and absorption. The digestibility is partly due to 
the weakness of the fluid and partly to the action of the heat 
on the casein, which is rendered uncoagulable by rennet. Its 
wide popularity among the poor is due to the ease with which 
the baby's meal is prepared. The milk is less liable to go sour 
than cows' milk which, in addition, is difficult to obtain fresh 
and clean. Cows' milk causes more trouble in preparing each 
feed, and the curd is difficult to digest and liable to set up vomiting, 
colic or diarrhoea. The baby usually likeis the sugary fluid, 
takes it well, digests it, is satisfied, and grows fat. The evil 
effects develop slowly, as a rule, and are not recognized as due 
to the diet, being more readily ascribed to vaccination, the 
bite of a dog, or some such cause. 

An infant fed on condensed milk becomes anaemic, fat and 
lethargic. The deficiency of protein, and the alterations pro- 
duced in it by heat, lead to weakness and flabbiness from the 
impoverishment of the blood and impaired nutrition of the 
muscles. The excess of sugar causes a deposition of fat and 
is liable to set up intestinal derangements from fermentative 
changes. The deficiency of fat, in addition to other defects 
in the food, causes rickets. It is extremely rare for a babe fed 
on condensed milk not to develop some degree of rickets. Fre- 
quently the disease supervenes in a severe form. Further, 
the child, though large and fat, is far from strong and has little 
vital resistance to intercurrent disease, such as attacks of bron- 
chitis or gastro-intestinal derangements, to which these infants 
are peculiarly liable. Another danger is the appearance of 
scurvy, for the milk is deprived of its anti-scorbutic properties 
by the heat used in condensing it. The alterations in the salts, 
due to heat, have probably a deleterious effect on metabolism 
and nutrition. 



222 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Although the milk is condensed at a high temperature it 
is not invariably sterile. Cultivation experiments have fre- 
quently demonstrated the presence of micro-organisms. It 
will keep remarkably well in the unopened tin, but after a time 
is liable to decompose. It may become slimy, cheesy, or semi- 
solid. It may become quite solid or " go hard." It may undergo 
putrefaction, in which case the tin becomes " blown." Any 
of these changes renders it an unsuitable food, especially for 
babies. Needless to say, the people who commonly use it are 
the ones least likely to pay attention to these changes or notice 
any alteration in the taste or smell. Although the sweetened 
variety keeps better than the unsweetened, when the tin has 
been opened, it will decompose pretty rapidly in hot weather 
unless ice or a refrigerator is available. Furthermore, con- 
densed milk is more expensive than ordinary fresh cows' milk, 
diluted and sweetened, if it is given in a solution of equivalent 
strength or in the proportions appropriate for infant feeding. 

It is a valuable substitute for cows' milk when travelling, 
in very hot weather, and when good cows' milk is not available. 
In many marasmic conditions and in some affections of the 
alimentary tract it is also useful. Given under medical advice 
and as a temporary expedient, there is nothing to be said against 
its use. One may go further and state that it is quite possible 
to bring up a baby perfectly satisfactorily on condensed milk, 
provided that extra fat is given in the form of cod-liver oil or 
olive oil, extra protein in the form of egg albumin, and fruit 
juice to counteract the tendency to scurvy due to a prolonged 
diet of cooked food. I have obtained extraordinarily good 
results in some instances by feeding infants on one or other 
variety of condensed milk, when all other methods of artificial 
feeding have failed and a wet-nurse has not been available. 
Unfortunately it is the abuse of this method of feeding which 
has rendered condensed milk obnoxious to the medical pro- 
fession. Nevertheless, it must be candidly admitted that there 
are many cases in which a diet of condensed milk is infinitely 
superior to ordinary cows' milk, notably so in hot weather, among 
the poorer classes, and in some cases of marasmus. The diffi- 
culties which the poor have to contend with in obtaining fresh, 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 



223 



clean, pure milk, and in keeping it in their insanitary, stuffy, 
crowded tenements, often render condensed milk a much less 
dangerous diet for a baby than cows' milk. The nutritive value 
depends on the quality of the original milk, the degree of con- 
densation, the addition of cream (if any) and the amount of 
cane sugar added. Of the different varieties the sweetened 
ones are the best for infant feeding, and only the best brands 
should be used. The unsweetened should only be used under 
medical advice. Those which are made from skimmed milk 
should only be given when specially ordered, but may be used 
as a cheap substitute for milk for adults and children who get 
plenty of fat and protein in other forms. The value of separated 
milk is not nearly sufficiently realized. It is a rich nitrogenous 
food and contains lactose, whether fresh or condensed, but 
there is practically no fat in it. 

C. Dried milk preparations. A large number of preparations 
of dried milk are now obtainable. Some of them are prepara- 
tions of pure casein ; some are derived from separated milk, 
and contain a little fat and more or less sugar ; some are derived 
from whole milk ; and others are in the form of milk powders, 
composed of milk modified by abstraction of casein or addition 
of sugar, or both. 

COMPARATIVE ANALYSES or DRIED Mmc PREPARATIONS. 





Protein. 


Fat. 


Other Substances. 


Salts. 


Water. 


Biogene 1 . 
Casumen 2 . 


78-75 
86-47 


1-58 
3-60 


4'04 (organic) 


4-73 
2-93 


10-00 

7-00 


Lacvitum 1 


28-04 


29-40 


31-26 (lactose) 


5-96 


534 


Lacumen 1 . 


40-00 














Plasmon 1 . 


80-00 


Traces 





7-00 


10-5 


Protene 


80-00 














Tilia .... 


76-37 


0-17 


5-70 


9-25 


8-51 



Biogene, is a soluble, tasteless, odourless casein, free from 
starch and sugar. Prideaux's Casumen (2s. per Ib.) is a white, 
flake-like powder, odourless, tasteless, soluble, and miscible 
with ordinary foods and drinks. The salts consist of phosphates 
of calcium and potassium 1'92, and salts of sodium 1*01. It 

1 Analysis given by the makers. 2 Analysis by The Lancet. 



224 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

is free from starch and sugar and keeps indefinitely. It is com- 
bined with other foods in the form of arrowroot, chocolate, 
cocoa, cornflour, biscuits, bread and macaroni. A diabetic 
milk can be made from^it by the addition of water, a weak alkali, 
and saccharin. Plasmon is almost identical with casumen, 
practically free from fat and sugar. It is a white, finely granular, 
odourless, tasteless powder, rendered soluble by the addition 
of bicarbonate of soda, miscible with ordinary foods and drinks, 
and useful for rectal feeding. It is combined with other foods 
in the form of arrowroot, chocolate, cocoa, biscuits, beef, tea, 
oats, etc. Protene is almost identical with plasmon. Tilia 
is also practically pure casein, which mixes with water and 
forms an almost transparent and tasteless solution. It con- 
tains 11 "97 per cent of nitrogen and 1'83 per cent of phosphoric 
anhydride. 

Casein is combined with ammonia under the name of Eucasin ; 
with sodium, as Nutrose ; with 5 per cent of sodium glycero- 
phosphate, as Sanatogen ; and with 20 per cent of albumose, 
made from egg albumin, as Sanose. 

Desiccated whole milk is sold under the names of Glaxo 
(Nathan and Co.) ; and Lacvitum (Prideaux) at Is. to Is. 3d. 
per Ib. The latter company provide La-eumen, at 5d. to 9d. per 
lb., the desiccated product of skimmed milk ; and another 
powder made from a milk deprived of half its fat. 

Dried casein is a very nutritious food, on a par with cheese 
made from skimmed milk. It is enormously valuable in that 
it can be added to other foods, thus improving their protein 
value. The casein is purin-free, does not clot, and is easily 
digested and absorbed. It is indicated in all affections in which 
additional protein is needed, and is useful as a means of giving 
phosphorus in organic combinations. It is especially valuable 
in the treatment of acid dyspepsia, for the protein fixes the acid. 
Protene and plasmon arrowroot are beneficial in the treatment 
of diarrhoea. 

Alleribury No. 1 Food may be classed in this group. It 
is a dry powder, made from cows' milk from which the excess 
of casein has been removed and the deficiency in fat and sugar 
corrected. It is free from starch and is often very useful as 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 225 

a temporary food for infants in the first three months of life. 

D. Predigested or peptonized milk. It is advisable that milk 
of this nature should be made at home by means of the 
Allenbury peptonizing powders, Fairchild's zymine powders, 
or Fairchild's peptogenic milk powder, which is chiefly com- 
posed of milk sugar (vide table of analyses). Such milk can 
be bought ready made from some of the larger milk companies. 
Other predigested varieties are sold under the name of Loeflund's 
peptonized milk and Backhaus'a milk. Some of the so-called 
humanized milks are prepared by partial peptonization or pan- 
creatisation of the milk proteins. Savory and Moore supply a 
condensed peptonized milk. 

E. Modified milk. Various companies and municipal bodies 
are supplying, for the use of infants, milk which is simply pas- 
teurised or sterilised, or is modified in the relative percentages 
of its component parts before being heated. The Pagefs Milk 
food Company supply a milk which has a percentage com- 
position, when diluted with one to two parts of water, of : 

Protein, T33-2-0; fats, 2'5-4'0 ; lactose, 5'0-7'0 ; salts, 
0*27. Apparently a considerable amount of the casein is re- 
moved from the original milk, for the food hardly clots with 
rennet. Various preparations are sold under the name of Fac- 
simile Human Milk. Sometimes this is a complete misnomer. 
At others it has a certain amount of justification in that the 
composition more or less approximates to that of human milk. 
Frankland's Artificial Human Milk is made by adding cream 
and whey to whole milk, and this is the basis of many trade 
preparations sold as humanized milk. Milk is also modified 
by the reduction in the amount of casein and the addition of 
lact-albumin and albumoses or peptones. Somatose Milk and 
Rieth's Albumose Milk are of this nature. 



H. COWS' MILK WITH CARBO-HYDRATE (CEREAL) 
ADDITIONS 

A. The starch practically unchanged. e.g. Anglo-Swiss, 
American-Swiss, and Franco-Swiss foods. These all appear to 
be made from condensed milk, baked wheat flour, and sugar. 

15 



226 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Analysis shows them rich in starch and cane sugar, and deficient 
in fat and protein. Possibly the gluten of the flour is rendered 
somewhat more digestible in the process of preparation. These 
foods are unsuitable for infants under the age of six months, 
because of the high percentage of starch and deficient fat. After 
this age they are quite unnecessary, for the child should be able 
to take fresh cows' milk, to which starch can be added in the 
form of a cereal decoction, and sugar if required. Muffler's 
Food, sold by the Aylesbury Dairy Company at Is. 6d. a bottle, 
is very much the same and not much more valuable. It is 
composed of desiccated milk, powdered white of egg, wheaten 
flour and lactose, and contains very little fat. 

B. The starch partly or entirely converted into soluble carbo- 
hydrates. e.g. Allenbury No. 2 Food, a combination of the No. 1 
Food with a malted meal ; Horlick's Malted Milk ; John Bull 
No. 1 Food ; Loeflund's Cream Emulsion ; Maltico ; Manhu 
Infant Food ; Milo Food ; Theinhart's Infantina and Hygiamaj 
The composition of these foods is given in the table of analyses, 
and reference thereto will show which contain the least un- 
converted starch. On the whole, if a mixture of condensed 
milk and a malted flour is desired, reliance can be placed on 
those foods in which there is little unchanged starch. The 
functions of starch digestion can be trained by gradually changing 
to foods which contain a higher proportion of starch. As infant 
foods these possess all the disadvantages of condensed milks, 
in respect of lack of freshness and deficiency of fat. The main 
difference lies in the character of the soluble carbo-hydrates 
present, in place of an excess of cane sugar. 

C. The milk partially predigested, or the food containing fer- 
ments which act on the protein of the milk and the starch in the 
food during the process of preparation. Benger's Food and 
Carnrick's Soluble Food are of this type. Benger's Food is, 
in my opinion, the most valuable proprietary food on the market. 
It consists of a wheaten meal, cooked and impregnated with 
a suitable proportion of the natural digestive ferments of the 
pancreas. On mixing the food with warm milk, the ferments 
convert the carbo-hydrates into soluble dextrins and sugars, 
and partially peptonize the proteins. The fat is not changed. 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 227 

The main objections are that the amount of predigestion of 
the starch cannot be accurately determined or regulated, and 
that a considerable amount of starch is unchanged. These are 
not serious drawbacks when the food is used under medical 
advice. The food is especially valuable for marasmic infants 
over six months of age, and it may be given with advantage, 
if cautiously watched, to much younger infants who cannot 
digest ordinary cows' milk. The addition of half a teaspoonful 
to a couple of ounces each of milk and water for a child of three 
or four months is sometimes most beneficial. It is useful also 
for other young animals, such as puppies and kittens. It is a 
valuable food in typhoid fever, gastric and intestinal troubles, 
anorexia from any cause, convalescence from acute illness 
and in malnutrition generally. Given in the form of thick 
gruel at bedtime it has a remarkably fattening effect, and should 
not be allowed for middle aged or old people with a tendency 
to obesity. 

Carnrick's Soluble Food consists of desiccated milk 37 ! 5, 
malted wheat flour 37'5, and milk sugar 25'0 per cent. In the 
process of preparation the casein is partially digested by extract 
of pancreas, but much starch remains unchanged. It is greatly 
inferior to Benger's Food in that it is not prepared with fresh 
milk. 



HI. CARBO-HYDRATE FOODS 

A. Practically unchanged starch. Many of these foods are 
made from wheat flour or mixed flours which are practically 
unchanged. Some are said to be baked, but the effect of baking 
is very slight. Baked flour only differs from ordinary flour 
in containing a small amount of soluble carbo-hydrates, due 
to the action of the heat on the starch. Perhaps the heat ren- 
ders the starch granules more susceptible to the action of digestive 
juices and diastasic ferments. The chief foods of this nature 
are : Albany, Chapman's Whole Flour, Imperial Granum, 
Neaves, Ridge's, Opmus, Robinson's Patent Barley, Robin- 
son's Groats, Scott's Oat Flour, Ho vis Oats, Quaker^Oats, etc. 



228 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Falona is composed of well-baked cereals and a bean flour 
containing fat in small amount. Nutroa is made from cereals 
and a peanut flour containing fat. It is richer in fat than Falona 
is, and the starch is said to be partly converted in mixing. Frame 
Food is a mixture of baked flour, sugar, and an extract derived 
from the bran of wheat. According to the makers the extract 
contains albuminoids, 220 ; phosphates, 10*5 ; carbo-hydrates, 
58-0 ; water, 9-5. These foods are only suitable, except in ex- 
tremely weak decoctions, for infants who are well able to digest 
starch, for older children and adults. 

B. Partially malted foods. The starch is partly converted 
into dextrins, maltose and dextrose. In foods such as I. and 
I. Food, Nichol's Food of Health, Triticumina and Worth's 
Perfect Food, the stauch is not much changed. In others con- 
siderable conversion has taken place and more is changed in 
the process of preparation, e.g. Allenbury No. 3, Cheltine Infant's 
Food, Coombs Malted Food, Hovis Babies' Food No. 2, John 
Bull No. 2, Kufeke's Infant Food, and Moseley's Food. Phos- 
phatine Fattier es is of a similar nature. It consists of the starch 
of potato, rice, arrowroot, sago and cocoa, with the addition 
of cane sugar and calcium phosphate. Perhaps it would be 
better to place it in the previous group, because of the small 
amount of soluble carbo-hydrates, apart from cane sugar. 

C. Completely malted foods. The best of these are Mellin's, 
Horlick's, and Paget's Malted Farina. Others of a like nature 
are the Cheltine Maltose Food, Diastased Farina, Hovis Babies' 
Food No. 1, and Racia. Some of the partly malted foods are 
said to be completely changed during mixing and, if so, might 
be included in this group, e.g. Coombs malted food, Moseley's 
food, and Nutroa. 

D. Malt extracts are malt infusions evaporated down in 
vacuo, at a low temperature in order to preserve the diastasic 
ferment. This ferment is of doubtful value, and the expense 
of preparation of these extracts could be greatly reduced if 
they were made at a higher temperature and the ferment de- 
stroyed. Klemperer gives the average percentage composition 
of malt extracts as : protein, 5-6 ; sugar, 50-55 ; soluble starch, 
10-15; ash, 1-2; water 22-34. In the desiccated malt extracts 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 229 

all the water is removed ; e.g. Curtis'* Desiccated Malt Extract 
and Gramalt (Christy and Co). Haft's Malt Extract is a liquid 
preparation, with the taste and smell of beer. It does not 
mix well with cod-liver oil, making a gruesome mixture which 
is unpleasant to take. The oil mixes well with maltine, especially 
the thick treacly kinds such as Kepler's Malt Extract. Maltova 
is a mixture of malt and eggs, with no special advantages over 
maltine and eggs taken separately. 



IV. NITROGENOUS FOODS 

(1) Foods prepared from meat are sold under the name of 
meat teas, meat extracts, meat juices, peptones and peptonoids, 
and dried meat powders. Some are supposed to have mar- 
vellous nutritive value because of the evaporation of a watery 
extract of the meat, or of the juice expressed from meat, into 
a fluid which is stated to contain the nutritive elements of the 
original muscle fibre in a concentrated form. Others base 
their claims on the predigestion of the protein before concen- 
tration. It is not invariably true that these preparations are 
made from meat. The absence of creatinin, in some specimens, 
suggests that these particular ones are purely artificial products. 

Analyses of various meats show that the average percentage 
of protein is about 20 and that it is, therefore, impossible to 
concentrate meat down to less than a fifth of its bulk, if the 
total nutritive value of the protein is to be retained. Reference 
to the tables of analyses of these nitrogenous foods shows that 
in few instances does the percentage of protein equal that of 
the original meat from which the food is made, while in many 
it is very considerably less, even if undiluted. In those cases 
in which the percentage of protein is high, the food is usually 
given diluted with a large quantity of water. 

The high percentage of extractives in many of these prepara- 
tions proves that they are fluid extracts of meat. These ex- 
tractives are of no nutritive value, throw an extra strain on 
the liver and kidneys, and are probably actively injurious. 
The high proportion of salts and extractives leads to thirst 
and diarrhoea, if these foods are given in large quantities. 



230 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



A. In the ordinary process of making beef tea and clear 
soups the product is strained and the protein, coagulated by 
heat, which forms the nutritious sediment, deprived of its stimu- 
lating taste, is usually thrown away. A weak gelatinous fluid 
is left which is converted into a firm jelly on cooling, if the gelatin 
amounts to one per cent. Beef tea is often made in institutions 
from some one or other of the various meat extracts, instead 
of from fresh meat, so it is worth while to consider the nutritive 
value and the expense of these different preparations. 

APPKOXIMATE COMPOSITION OF BEEF TEA PBEPARATIONS. 





Water. 


Proteins. 


Extrac- 
tives. 


Mineral 
Ash. 


Mason's strong beef tea . 
Bovril Co. Vril, albuminous beef 
tea 


89-02 
84-00 


6-86 
10-17 


2-47 
4-17 


1-65 
1-66 


Brand's fibrous beef tea . 


83-21 


11-40 


4-52 


0-86 



According to the Lancet analysis Mason's beef tea contains 
meat fibre 3-74 per cent, soluble albuminoids and extractives 
10-58, mineral salts 2-37. 

A comparison of the above preparations with beef tea, as 
ordinarily made, is distinctly to their advantage. Home made 
beef tea contains about 1-5 per cent of protein and, if made by 
the boiling process, may contain considerably less. An analysis 
of a sample of that made at St. Thomas's Hospital yielded the 
following results (The Hospital, June 11, 1904) : 



Water 

Fat 

Insoluble protein and meat fibre 
Soluble proteins and gelatin 
Meat bases .... 
Non-nitrogenous extractive matters 
Mineral matters 



96-030 
0-199 
0-208 
1-342 
0-608 
0-843 
0-770 



The total dry solids amounted to 3-97 per cent and of that 
1-55 per cent only, inclusive of gelatin, was of value as food. 

The price of beef tea made from various foods is given in 
the following table (The Hospital, June 1, 1907) : 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 



231 



Name of Food. 


Price. 


Amount Required. 


Cost per Pint. 


Lemco .... 


6s. 6d. per Ib. 


1 Ib. for 60 pints 


Id. and a 








fraction 


Ramornie 1 . 


5s. 


1 oz. 3 


Ditto 


Oxo 


3s. 9d. 


lib. 22 


2d. 


Nursing Oxo 2 . 
Invalid Bovril . 


4s. 
4s. 6d. 


lib. 22 
3oz. 4 


|| 


Mason's beef tea 








3Jd. 


Brand's beef tea 


Wd. 


31b. 7 


A|A 


Oxvil .... 








5d. 


Foreign meat . 


2d.-3d. 





lid.-2d. 



These results are based on institutional prices. The price 
per pint is not an absolute criterion of the value, unless we 
regard these preparations as of such little use for nutritive pur- 
poses that the actual percentages of protein can be neglected. 
Probably this is true, for the amount of protein which can be 
taken in this form is really remarkably small. 

These foods may be restorative and stimulant, but they are 
certainly only feebly nutritive and are an expensive form of 
diet. Probably the use of beef tea and meat extracts depends 
on the fact that in digestive disorders and in fevers, in which 
digestion is impaired, the appetite is bad, and the tongue 
furred, the patient dislikes food, but can take a hot, clean, non- 
cloying fluid which by virtue of the heat has some stimulating 
properties. Put plainly, the patient is better without food, and 
really derives benefit from the comparative starvation and 
not from the constituents of the extract which he is induced 
to swallow. These preparations have a great influence on 
the minds of the patient and friends, who are apt to dread absti- 
nence from food as a source of extreme danger and have an 
abounding faith in the nutritive value of beef teas, jellies and 
meat extracts. As a food milk is infinitely superior. There 
is one advantage in these foods which must not be overlooked. 
They encourage appetite and the secretion of gastric juice. 
A few tablespoonfuls of clear soup or of a diluted meat extract, 
taken at the beginning of dinner or just beforehand, will improve 



1 Liebig's Extract of Meat as prepared by the Australian Meat Co. 

2 Peptonhed. 



232 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



both appetite and digestion. A large amount may be harmful 
by unduly diluting the gastric juice. They may be regarded 
as concentrated flavouring substances of meat the nutritive 
matters being extracted. Liebig's Extract was the first and 
remains the most typical of these meat extracts. As originally 
made it is practically free from protein and fat. It is a con- 
centrated watery extract of meat, heated under pressure, filtered 
and evaporated. 

THE APPROXIMATE COMPOSITION OF MEAT EXTRACTS. 





Water. 


Pro- 
teins 
and 
Gelatin 


Extrac- 
tives. 


N.-free 
Sub- 
stances 
etc. 


Mineral 
Ash. 


References and Remarks. 


Armour's Extract 1 


24-30 
15-55 


16-08 
10-89 


20-55 
43-23 


20-06 
4-122 


19-03 
25-91 


Food and Sanitation, 1893 


Bovril 


44-40 
39-58 


16-94 
9-12 


20-32 
34-10 


1-292 


18-32 
13-52 


Stiitzer, 1897 
Chittenden 


Bovril Fluid Beef 1 


38-10 


12-24 


12-04 


19-75 


17-87 





Invalids' Bovril 1 


21-82 
21-16 


21-42 
16-66 


39-60 
16-13 


29-23 


17-16 

16-82 


Allen's commercial 
analysis 


Bouillon Fleet . 


61-95 


11-81 


9-87 


3-87 


12-50 


Tatlock 


Brand's Beef 
Bouillon * 


36-27 


9-58 


19-34 


19-75 


15-07 





Brand's Essence . 


87-17 


10-433 


1-01 




1-39 


Candy, vide Hutchison, 
1904. The juice of 
beef, mutton, veal or 
chicken, without any 
addition 


Hipi .... 


42-00 


43-00* 





6-60 


8-40 


Medical Press, 1899. A 
mutton extract 


Lemco 1 . 


17-80 


16-48 


38-12 


6-00 


21-50 





Liebig's Extract 


20-06 
18-30 


0-06 
9-40 


55-72 
30-00 


0-912 
18-602 


24-04 
23-60 


Chittenden. Fat and 
protein free. 
Tankard 


Mason's Essence 


77-07 


3-03 


7-47 


2-92 


9-51 


Food and Sanitation,1896 
(Hehner) 


Oxine Extract 1 . 


62-90 


13-00 


4-54 





19-60 


Hutchison 


Oxoi . . . 


38-10 


18-93 


20'31 


5-35 


17-31 


Meat extract, albumin 
and fibrin, without fat 


Viking Beef 
Essence 


90-68 


3-63 


1-85 


2-41 


1-43 


Tankard 



1 Analysis given by the manufacturers. 

2 Ether extract. 



3 Half gelatin. 

4 Including extractives. 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 



233 



According to Liebig 34 Ib. of beef should yield 1 Ib. of extract, 
which should contain extractives 56-60 per cent, salts 18-24 
per cent and water. It should be practically free from fat, 
protein and gelatin. Gelatin is sometimes added. It would 
be a valuable food if the extractives were tissue builders, energy 
producers or stimulants. As energy producers they are prac- 
tically valueless, though some undergo further oxidation. They 
are certainly not tissue builders, and they are not true stimulants, 
either of the circulation or the nervous system. Modifications 
of Liebig's process were soon introduced, when it was recognized 
that the fluid had no nutritive value. Most of these modifica- 
tions depend on the addition of some of the meat fibre which 
is previously separated. The meat fibre is in the form of in- 
soluble protein. Although it is present in Bovril Fluid Beef 
and Bovril for Invalids to the extent of 8-9 per cent, the total 
percentage of protein and gelatin is, according to some analyses, 
less than that of fresh beef. The comparative analyses of dried 
meat, dried bovril and a yeast extract, called Marmite, must 
be noted, for the latter resembles meat extract and has been 
used in its adulteration. 





Pro- 

teins. 


Extrac- 
tives. 


Ash. 


Water. 


Organic 
Matter. 


Reference. 


Dried meat . 


86-70 


7-80 


5-3 


5-4 


94-6 


Voit 


Dried Bovril. 


49-70 


25-60 


24-7 


24-7 


75-3 


Voit 


Marmite (1) . 


4-10 


46-90 


18-9 


30-1 


69-9 


Hutchison 


(2) ... 


10-50 


34-67 


26-95 


26-84 


73-16 


Makers 



B. Meat Juices differ from meat extracts in that they are 
supposed to consist of the blood and fluid substances obtained 
by compression of the muscle fibres. Strong pressure is used 
to extract the juice which is subsequently concentrated by 
evaporation in vacuo. Heat must be avoided for it coagulates 
the protein. Hence the process is an expensive one and the 
product is liable to decomposition, unless preserved by the 
addition of glycerine, salt or some chemical preservative. 

Many of these foods form a red solution on adding water, 
look like blood and are consequently repugnant. Some give 



234 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



the spectrum of haemoglobin. Bovinine appears to be a mixture 
of blood and glycerine, and gives the spectrum of methsemo- 
globin. There is considerable doubt as to the absorbability 
and nutritive value of haemoglobin. Puro depends for its 
nutritive value on egg albumin. If such a food is required, 
it is simpler and cheaper to take the white of egg and 
flavour with meat extract or home made beef tea. Valen- 
tine's Meat Juice is the most expensive and, according to 
Ohittenden's analysis, the least nutritious of these foods on 
the market. 

The composition of the various meat juices is shown in the 
table of analyses. The nutritive value of each depends on 
the amount of protein and varies enormously. 

THE APPROXIMATE COMPOSITION OF BEEF JUICES. 





Water. 


Pro- 
teins 
and 
Gelatin 


Extrac- 
tives. 


N.-free 
Sub- 
stances 


Mineral 
Ash. 


References and 

Remarks. 


Armour's Beef Juice . 


74-10 


8-30 


9-54 





7-51 


Attfield 


Armour's Soluble Beef 


23-07 


33-382 


13-44 


6-75 


13-27 





Bovinine .... 


81-09 

78-42 


13-98 
13-32 


3-40 
0-55 


6-01 


1-02 
1-60 


Chittenden 
Hehner 


Bovril Beef Juice 1 


62-01 


7-23 


14-03 


20-763 


5-97 





Brand's Meat Juice . 


59-15 


15-45,4 


16-55 





8-85 


No chemical pre- 
servatives 


Burgoyne's Meat Juice 


49-51 


13-00 5 


8-10 





14-20 


Candy 


Esco Beef Juice . 


52-43 


7-60 


5-90 


13-62 


20-39 


Tankard 


Lipton's Fluid Beef . 


42-91 


22-13" 


18-70 





16-26 


Lancet, 1898 


Liquor Carnis 1 


56-06 


6-96 


5-01 


28-42 


3-55 





Puro 


36-60 


30-33 


19-16 




9-79 


Leyden's Handbuch. 














Contains much 
egg albumin 


Valentine's Beef 
Juice 


60-31 
51-21 


0-55 
9-65' 


29-15 
11-16 





11-30 
10-84 


Chittenden 
Candy 


Vitalia Meat Juice 


66-50 


21-00 


6-00 





6-50 


Lancet, 1895 


Wyeth's Meat Juice . 


44-87 


38-01 8 








17-12 


Lancet 



1 Analysis given by manufacturers. 

2 32-05 soluble. 

3 Carbohydrates. 

4 5-28 coagulable. 



5 3'71 coagulable. 

8 6-87 coagulable. 

7 0-53 coagulable. 

8 Including extractives. 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 235 

Other preparations. Curtis's Meat Juice, prepared from fresh beef by the cold 
process and supplied in glass bottles, contains haemoglobin, 2 "3 per cent of 
coagulable albumen, 6'54 per cent of mineral matter, and 63'53 per cent of 
water. Vinsip is made of blood, boric acid and a little alcohol, and contains 
16 per cent of protein. Alcoholic compounds of meat extracts must be severely 
condemned, even if enriched by addition of maltose or other sugars. They are 
very apt to set up the alcoholic habit. 

Fresh meat juice is cheaper than these preparations and 
more valuable by reason of its freshness and its composition. 
From broiled rump steak, slowly pressed, a fluid can be ob- 
tained which contains from 5-7 per cent of protein. It contains 
a relatively small quantity of extractives, and can be given 
in considerable amounts without causing either diarrhoea or 
thirst. If the meat is minced, covered with about hah* its weight 
of water, allowed to stand for a few hours, and then squeezed 
through muslin, a fluid is obtained which contains from 2-4 
per cent of protein. Meat juice can be given mixed with beef 
tea or in a coloured glass to hide the colour. The proprietary 
meat juices should be supplied in glass bottles or porcelain 
jars, and not in tins, for some of the tin may be dissolved out 
and cause symptoms of poisoning. 

C. Predigested meat foods are generally sold under the name 
of peptones, fluid meat, or peptonoids. They usually contain 
more albumoses than peptones. The value of predigestion, 
partial or entire, has already been referred to. In the case 
of meat foods one great disadvantage is the tendency to induce 
diarrhoea, due to the albumoses and peptones. The amount 
of soluble protein varies greatly in the different foods, from 
only 3 per cent in Armour's Wine of Peptone to 80 per ,cent 
in Somatose. The next table gives the composition of these 
foods. 



236 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

THE APPROXIMATE COMPOSITION OF PEPTONE PREPARATIONS. 





Water. 


In- 

soluble 
Pro- 
teins. 


Pep- 
tones. 


Extrac- 
tives 
Albu- and 
moses. other 
Sub- 
stances 


Mineral 
Ash. 


References. 


Antweiler's 
Peptone 


6-92 


3-22 


60-15 


14-54 1-74 

1 


13-31 


Konig 


Armour's Wine of 
Peptone 


83-00 





3-00 


12-90 


1-10 


*"' ' -'... .*; 
Hutchison 


Benger's Pepton- 
ized Beef Jelly 


89-68 





4-75 


2-41 


2-27 


0-89 


Konig 


Brand's Beef 
Peptone 


84-60 





7-00 





1-40 


Hutchison 


Camrick's Liquid 
Peptonoids 


5-40 





24-00 


65-40 

(sugar 
chiefly) 


5-20 





Camrick's 
Peptonoids 


2-13 


12-22 


0-88 


3-17 


77-03 


4-57 





Darby's Fluid 
Meat 


25-71 





30-60 


30-18 


13-50 


Leyden's Hand- 
buck ; Konig ; 
Horton Smith, 
Journal of 
Physiol., 1891 


Denaeyer's 
Peptone 


78-45 





12-15 


4-32 


2-54 


Leyden's Hand- 
buck and Von 
Noorden 


Fairchild's 
Panopepton 


81-00 





3-00 


15-00 
sugar 
chiefly] 


1-00 


Hutchison 


Kemmerich's 
Meat Peptone 


33-30 


1-10 


32-57 


14-56 


10-27 


7-73 


Konig 


Koch's Meat 
Peptone 


40-16 


1-42 


18-83 


15-95 


16-75 


6-89 


Konig 


Liebig's Peptone 


31-90 





33-40 


24-60 


9-90 


Leyden's Hand- 
buck 


Mosquera Beef 
Meal 





48-00 


29-00 


13-00 
(Fat) 








Savory & Moore's 
Fluid Beef 


27-01 





2-74 


5-42 


52-73 


12-10 


Konig 


Somatose 


14-25 

9-20 





62-25 
80-00 


2-62 


5-30 
6-70 


Tankard 


Valentine's Meat 
Juice 


59-07 





4-87 


1-81 


22-73 


11-52 






PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 237 

Other peptone preparations may be mentioned : 
Gerrard's Liquid Peptone : a predigested protein and 
carbo-hydrate mixture, made from whole meat, malt peptone 
and detannated wine. Leube-Rosenthal Meat Solution : a pre- 
paration of meat which has been partially digested by hydrochloric 
acid, pounded up in a mortar, neutralized by alkali, and mixed 
with water to the consistency of a thin paste. It looks and 
tastes like salt cooked meat. Containing albumin 11 - per 
cent, peptone 6-5, and fat 6-0, it is nearly as nutritious as and 
is more digestible than ordinary meat. Ju-Vis : a mixture 
of vegetables and meat extract. Its composition is given as 
water, 28-8; albumin, 1-10; peptone, 4-76; albumose, 9-92 ; 
nitrogenous bases, 20-63 ; non-nitrogenous matter, 9-37 ; mineral 
ash, 25-42. Ju-Vis Tablets are composed of extract of meat, 
gelatin, and Ju-Vis extract. One is sufficient to make a cup 
of beef tea, obviously of small nutritive value. Sanose : a 
preparation of casein 80 per cent and albumose 20 per cent, 
from white of egg. Brand's peptone preparations are made 
from beef, mutton, veal and chicken. Carnrick's Liquid Pep- 
tonoids are made from beef, wheat and milk. The manufacturers 
have recently stated that the total protein amounts to 6-89 per 
cent, of which 4-62 per cent is pure peptone. Their peptonoids 
contain meat bases, 2-87 ; fat, 2-00 ; lactose, 48-52 ; and starch, 
23-64. The Mosquera Beef Meal is a meat which is partially 
digested by the ferment of pine-apple juice. Savory and Moore's 
Fluid Beef contains little peptone. Ordinary peptonized milk 
yields about 1-75 per cent of peptone, a sufficient amount for 
clinical purposes. Somatose is a grey powder, made from meat, 
soluble in water and almost devoid of taste and smell. A milk 
somatose is made from milk, with the addition of 5 per cent 
tannic acid ; dose one to four drachms daily. Apart from 
the liability to cause diarrhoea, the possible weakening of the 
digestive functions from disuse, and the cost, these foods are 
unnecessary. If simple proteins, such as white of egg, dried 
casein foods, fresh meat or dried meat powders cannot be digested. 
then recourse may be had to the various forms of predigested 
foods which can be made at home from fresh food-stuffs, by 
the aid of peptonizing powders and pancreatic extracts. 



238 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

D. Dried meat powders can be made at home by mincing 
cold boiled beef, drying it thoroughly in a slow oven, and grinding 
it up in a coffee-mill. Or it can be bought in the form of Meatox, 
Brand's Nutrient Powder, or a powder made by M'Call of London, 
containing 12 per cent of moisture and flavoured with salt 
and pepper. The composition of Meatox is : water, 5-0 ; pro- 
teins, 73-8 ; fat, 12-1 ; extractives, 7-7 ; salts, 2-0. It is a powdered 
beef, without preservatives. Meat powders can be added to 
other foods. Egg albumin is usually better. Dried casein 
foods are cheaper and purin-free. Powdered pulses are rich 
in protein. 

Meat lozenges, beef tea tabloids, and combinations of meat 
extracts with other food-stuffs are to be absolutely condemned. 
Such lozenges and tabloids are quite innutritious and are prac- 
tically concentrated salts and extractives. 

(2) Fish foods are not plentiful. Marvis is a dried fish 
powder, made in Greenock N.B. from white fish, and mainly 
protein. 

(3) Vegetable protein is sold in the form of Aleurone, a 
colourless, odourless, tasteless, fairly soluble powder, from 
the protein of wheat ; or as Aleuronat, a yellowish-brown powder, 
almost insoluble in water, containing 80-90 per cent of protein. 
Legumin, or vegetable casern, is made from pulses ; Plantose, 
from rape seed ; and Roborat from cereals. Roborat contains 
83 per cent plantose, is tasteless, the most soluble and the 
best. Marmite, Falona and Nutroa have already been referred 
to. 

(4) Tropon is derived from waste vegetable and animal food* 
chiefly from fish and cheap vegetables. It is not very soluble 
and has a rather sandy taste. Vegox is a compound of essence 
of beef and vegetables, containing water 42-8, extractives 494> 
fibre and vegetable matter 7-8 (Hutchison). 

V. Fat foods. Substitutes for cod-liver oil are sold : e.g. 
Pilchard Oil ; Cotton Seed Oil with 6 per cent oleic acid ; Lipanin, 
olive oil with 6 per cent oleic acid ; and various cod-liver oil 
emulsions, containing one or more of the constituents, mucilage, 
alkali, glycerin, and malt extract. Pancreatic Emulsion is a 
mixture of emulsified lard, pigs' pancreas and oil of cloves. 



PATENT AND PROPRIETARY FOODS 239 

Petroleum Emulsions are also sold. They merely act as lubricants, 
for petroleum is a hydrocarbon, not a fat, and is not absorbed. 

A study of the composition of the various proprietary foods 
shows that some may be regarded as more or less pure foods, 
while others are combinations of fat and protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate, protein and carbo-hydrate, or all three constituents. 

VI. Combination foods. Pemmican is a good instance 
of fat and protein in combination. It is the dried product of 
the best beef and fat, 50 parts of the former to 40 of the latter, 
and is most nutritious. Everton Toffee is a fat and carbo-hydrate 
food : so, too, is Chocolate, containing fat 20, and carbo-hydrate 
50 per cent, but it is hardly a proprietary food. Cremalto 
is a mixture of Devonshire cream and malt. Virol is made 
from malt extract, marrow fat, yolk of egg and lemon juice. 
Its composition is stated to be : fat 20, malt extract 60 per 
cent. Virvis is much the same. 

Mostelle Grape Juice is the pure fruit of the grape, preserved 
by pasteurisation before the least fermentation can take place. 
It contains no alcohol, and its acidity, reckoned as tartaric acid, 
is 0-50-0'68 per cent. The sugar amounts to about 25 per 
cent. Diluted, it forms a wholesome non-alcoholic drink. It 
is very useful for marasmic and ill-nourished infants and seems 
to possess valuable antiscorbutic properties. It can replace 
fresh fruit and is moderate in price (Is. to Is. Qd. per bottle). 

The greater the knowledge possessed by the individual of 
the composition of natural and proprietary foods, and of the 
various means of modification by simple home methods, the 
less will he find it necessary to have recourse to the manufactured 
article, and the better will be the results of his dietetic treat- 
ment. Although unnecessary, it must nevertheless be clearly 
realized that such foods are sometimes of the greatest value. 
It is equally important to realize that a knowledge of the com- 
position is essential to the proper utilization of any proprietary 
food. 



THE INVALID'S DIETARY 



16 



CHAPTER VII 
THE INVALID'S DIETARY 

BY EDMUND CAUTLEY, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Albumin water. Take the white of a fresh egg and cut it 
in numerous directions with scissors. Shake it up in a flask with 
a pinch of salt and six ounces of pure cold water. Strain through 
muslin. Assuming that the white of one egg weighs an ounce, 
the albumin water will contain rather less than two per cent of 
protein. It is chiefly useful for infants, for vomiting, and as a 
weak, easily digestible protein food. It can be made with thin 
barley water and cream or sugar added. 

Arrowroot gruel. Rub up two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot 
with a little cold water into a smooth paste and pour on it, while 
stirring, half a pint of boiling water. It may be boiled for three 
minutes to make it more digestible. If a protein and starchy 
gruel is desired, make it with plasmon or protene arrowroot. 
Milk arrowroot is made with boiling milk instead of water. 
Sugar, nutmeg, or other spices can be used for flavouring, and 
brandy added, if necessary. 

Barley water. (1) Thin. Put a teaspoonful of prepared or 
pearl barley, previously washed in clean cold water, into a jug 
and pour on it half a pint of boiling water and add a pinch of 
salt. Stand it by the fire for an hour, stirring occasionally, and 
then strain through fine muslin. Similar thin cereal decoctions 
can be made from rice, arrowroot or oatmeal. 

(2) Thick. Put a heaped tablespoonf ul of washed, prepared or 
pearl barley into a clean saucepan and add a quart of water and a 
pinch of salt. Boil slowly until it has evaporated down to about 
two-thirds of a quart, and strain. It can be flavoured as desired. 
The addition of a little lemon peel, while boiling, is best. 

Beef juice (1). Cut up some rump steak or undercut of the 
sirloin of beef into pieces which will fit into a lemon squeezer. 

243 



244 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

It is better to use a proper meat press. Broil the meat rapidly 
before a hot fire or in a frying pan, on both sides, to keep in the 
juice. Forcibly express the juice, with slow pressure. Season 
with salt and other condiments if necessary, and give it warm, 
in a coloured glass or mixed with other foods. 

(2) Chop up finely or scrape with a fork or meat scraper, to 
separate the connective tissue, lean beef and put it in a jar or 
cup, with a pinch of salt and enough cold water to cover it. Allow 
it to stand from one to six hours and then squeeze well through 
coarse muslin. It may be given alone or mixed with other 
foods, warm or cold, but not hot. It should be warmed by heating 
the vessel in hot water. The main drawback to this mode of 
preparation is the liability to decomposition, especially in hot 
weather. 

Beef pulp. Scrape a piece of raw lean rump steak or sirloin 
with a fork or meat scraper until as much as possible of the mus- 
cular tissue has been obtained, separated from the tendinous 
parts. Pound it up in a mortar into a pulp and then rub it 
through a hair sieve. Season with salt and pepper. It may be 
given to infants in doses of one teaspoonful three times a day, 
rubbed up with water into a thick cream. Older patients can take 
it in the form of sandwiches, or rolled up into small rissoles and 
lightly grilled or fried. It is a very nutritious protein food. Like 
meat juice it possesses the defect of being liable to decomposition 
and to transmit the cysticercus of tapeworms. 

Beef-tea. (1). Mince up one pound of lean beef and add 
to it one pint of pure cold water and ten drops of dilute hydro- 
chloric acid. Let it stand for two or three hours, with occasional 
stirring, and then simmer for ten to twenty minutes. Do not 
let it boil. Skim well. 

(2) Mince up one pound of lean beef as finely as possible 
and pound it up in a mortar with a small teaspoonful of salt. 
Add the meat and its juice to one pint of water at 170 F. in an 
earthen vessel, and stand it for an hour by the fire, stirring at 
times. Then strain it through muslin, taking care to squeeze 
all the juice out of the meat. 

Broths. General method. Broth can be made from any kind 
of meat, in the proportion of one pound, minced, to the pint of 



THE INVALID'S DIETARY 245 

water. It should be stood by the fire for four or five hours and 
then cooked slowly over the fire, until it has evaporated down to 
half a pint. Cool, skim off the fat, and strain. It contains 
about one per cent of protein. Vegetables can be added with 
advantage. All broths can be thickened by the addition of a 
farinaceous food, a dried casein preparation, or a meat powder. 
Clear soup. Cut a shin of beef into small pieces and put it in a 
saucepan with just enough water to cover it. As soon as it boils, 
skim it, and add a bundle of sweet herbs, turnip, carrot, celery, 
salt and pepper. Add more water and let the whole boil for three 
hours. Strain and stand it on one side until the next day. Skim 
off all fat, add browning to taste, and heat it again. Beat up 
two eggs to a froth and put them into the soup with a whisk. 
Boil gently for ten minutes and strain through a cloth. 

Caudle. Beat up an egg to a froth, add a glass of sherry and 
half a pint of gruel. Flavour with lemon peel, nutmeg and sugar. 

Cornflour mould. Put one pint of milk, or equal parts of milk 
and water, into a clean milk saucepan or enamelled pan, and 
bring it to a boil ; add a pinch of salt. Mix a quarter of an ounce 
of cornflour into a thin paste with a little cold water and stir it 
into the milk, when nearly boiling. Boil gently for ten to twenty 
minutes. Other cereal moulds can be made in a similar manner. 
Egg-nog. Scald some new milk by putting it in a jug into 
a saucepan of boiling water, but do not let it boil. Beat up a 
fresh egg with a fork in a tumbler with some white sugar. Add 
a dessertspoonful of brandy and fill up the tumbler with the scalded 
milk when cold. 

Egg and brandy. Rub up the yolks of two eggs with one 
tablespoonful of white sugar, four of brandy and eight of cinna- 
mon water. Dose : one teaspoonful to one tablespoonful every 
two hours. 

Frankland's artificial human milk. Allow one-third of a pint 
of cows' milk to stand for twelve hours ; remove the cream and 
mix it with two-thirds of a pint of fresh milk. Add to the milk, 
from which the cream has been removed, a small piece of rennet or 
a lit tie liquid rennet, and keep it in a warm place until fully curdled, 
usually in about ten to fifteen minutes. Break up the curd 
thoroughly and separate the whey, which should then be rapidly 



246 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

brought to a boil to destroy the rennet ferment. Strain through 
muslin and add 110 grains of milk sugar. Mix this with the 
original two-thirds of the milk to which the cream was added. 

Gelatin. Soak a piece of plate gelatin, two inches square, in 
cold water for three hours and then dissolve it, with stirring, 
in half a pint of boiling water. It forms a jelly on cooling. One 
or two teaspoonfuls may be added to the milk for a baby's feed 
to prevent the formation of large curds. 

Imperial drink. Pour a pint of boiling water on to a large 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a little sugar and some lemon 
peel. Strain when cold. It is cooling and diuretic. 

Junket. Heat a pint of milk to a temperature at which it 
can just be comfortably sipped and add, with gentle stirring, one 
of the preparations of rennet, two teaspoonfuls of wine of pepsin 
or an essence of pepsin. Let it stand until firmly curdled and 
serve with sugar, nutmeg, cream, or stewed fruits. It can be 
enriched by the addition of one or two eggs before curdling. 

Lemonade. (1) Pare the rind off a lemon thinly and cut the 
lemon in slices. Put the whole in a jug with one ounce of white 
sugar and pour on a pint of boiling water. Cover the jug closely 
and strain when cold. 

(2) Rub two or three lumps of sugar on the rind of the lemon, 
cut it in half and squeeze out the juice. Add one-half to three- 
fourths of a pint of cold, iced or aerated water. 

(3) Effervescing. Make the lemonade with cold water as in 
the second method and add half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate 
of soda or potash. 

Linseed tea. Add to a pint of water two tablespoonfuls of 
linseed, a quarter of an ounce of bruised liquorice root or a piece 
of liquorice as big as a filbert, and sugar candy to taste. Boil for 
half an hour and strain. 

Oatmeal gruel. Made like arrowroot gruel ; q.v. 

Oatmeal porridge. Add half a teaspoonful of salt to a pint of 
boiling water in a saucepan and sprinkle in three or four ounces 
of oatmeal, until sufficiently thick, keeping it constantly stirred 
with a porridge stick. Boil gently for fifteen minutes ; add a 
little more water and boil for another five minutes. Serve with 
salt, milk, cream, sugar, golden syrup, maple syrup, etc. 



THE INVALID'S DIETARY 247 

Oatmeal water. Made like barley water, q.v. ; or put a large 
tablespoon! ul of oatmeal porridge into a quart of cold water and 
heat, with constant stirring, to boiling point ; strain. 

Peptonized meat. Add four ounces of minced meat to half 
a pint of water and gradually bring to a boil. Then add half a 
pint of cold water, so as to reduce the temperature to about 140 
F., and add thirty grains of zymine and twenty of bicarbonate 
of soda. The latter need not be added if Fairchild's zymine 
powders are used. Keep warm for three hours and the meat will 
be peptonized. 

Raw meat emulsion. Take two ounces of beef pulp, half 
an ounce of blanched sweet almonds, half a bitter almond, and 
half an ounce of white sugar. Pound them up in a mortar and 
add enough water to make an emulsion. 

Rice pudding. Cover the bottom of a dish with clean rice, 
nearly fill with milk, and add sugar ; put it in a slow oven for three 
hours and in the hottest part of the oven for fifteen minutes. 

Rice and egg pudding. Take three ounces of rice and swell it 
gently in one pint of new milk. Let it cool, and stir well into 
it one ounce of fresh butter, two ounces of powdered sugar, the 
yolks of three eggs and some grated lemon peel. Pour into a 
well-buttered dish and put on the top the whites of the three 
eggs, beaten up with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Bake for twenty minutes, until lightly browned. 

Rice water. Made like barley water, q.v. 

Toast water. Pour a pint of boiling water on to two or three 
slices of well toasted bread. Let it stand until cool ; strain. 

Treacle posset. Add a pint of boiling milk to two or three 
tablespoonfuls of treacle or golden syrup. Boil well and strain. 

Whey. Curdle milk as in the making of junket and allow the 
curd to stand until by contraction it squeezes out the whey. Or 
break up the curd with a fork and strain. Or, in addition, 
squeeze the curd finally through muslin or a coarse cheese cloth. 

Wine whey. Add two ounces of best cooking sherry to half 
a pint of boiling milk, without stirring, and continue the heating 
until the milk again boils up. Remove from the fire, stand it 
for three minutes and strain. 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 




BY HAKRY CAMPBELL, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

THE term " alcohol " in popular language refers to the ethylic 
variety of the di-carbon series (C 3 H 8 OH). Alcoholic drinks, 
however, contain other substances besides alcohol, and the effects 
of these latter upon the human organism have to be taken into 
account as well as those of the alcohol itself. 

Ethyl alcohol is obtained by the fermentation of grape sugar, 
whereof a single molecule yields two molecules of alcohol and 
carbonic acid respectively (C 6 H 12 6 =z 2C a H 5 OH + 2C0 3 ). 
During the process most of the carbonic acid escapes as gas, 
only a small part remaining in solution, but if the alcoholic 
solution is bottled up before fermentation is complete, a large 
amount of the carbonic acid may be held in solution, escaping 
with effervescence when the pressure is removed. 

The grape sugar from which alcohol is derived is ob- 
tained from a variety of vegetable substances. The chief are 
grain (especially barley) and the grape, but numerous other sub- 
stances are employed in its manufacture, including potatoes 
and even sawdust, the latter being converted into fermentable 
sugar by means of acids. 

Antiquity of alcohol. The discovery of alcohol probably 
does not date further back than the time when man first began 
to cultivate the vegetable kingdom for food. Certain it is that 
all extant pre-agricultural peoples were ignorant of it until they 
came into touch with agricultural man ; while, on the other hand, 
practically all the early agriculturists the red-skins of America, 
the negroes of the vast continent of Africa, the inhabitants of 
the numerous islands scattered throughout the Pacific have 
long brewed alcohol, a fact not, we think, generally known. 

251 



252 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The absence of alcohol among the pre-agriculturists cannot 
be explained by their lack of substances especially suitable for 
fermentation, such as barley, maize, and the grape, for apart 
from the fact that the uncultivated vegetable kingdom yields 
many fermentable materials, almost all the pre-agriculturists 
are abundantly supplied with honey, the source of that once so 
popular British drink known as mead. Curious though it may 
seem, it is therefore probable that their non-use of alcohol is due 
simply to the fact of their having no vessels suitable for brewing 
it. Such vessels as they have consist of shells, gourds, bottles 
made from skins or closely plaited rushes, and the like all un- 
fitted for the retention of large quantities of fermenting liquor. 
It was not until the introduction of agriculture that man began 
to make pottery, while the manufacture of glass vessels and 
wooden barrels is of much later date. 

Assuming, then, that man began to brew alcohol about the 
same time that he began to cultivate the soil, we may estimate 
the antiquity of alcohol by reference to that of agriculture. Now 
though we have no means of gauging with precision the date at 
which agriculture arose, we shall probably not be far wrong 
in placing it some thirty thousand years back, i.e. about fifteen 
thousand years before the rise of the Egyptian civilization ; 
and if we suppose that man's evolution from his anthropoid 
precursor occupied a million years, the discovery of alcohol 
must, in the light of those unchronicled ages, be regarded as 
of comparatively recent date. In any case it is clear that man 
had come well within reach of the highest rung of his long evo- 
lution ladder before he learnt to brew intoxicating liquors. 

But while possibly acquainted with alcohol for so long a period 
as three thousand decades, it was not until he had attained a 
civilized state, say fifteen thousand years ago, that chronic drunk- 
enness was possible for him. For early agricultural man, even 
though knowing how to make alcohol, had no adequate means of 
storing and distributing it, and not being able to get a contin- 
uous supply, he consequently was unable to indulge in systematic 
drinking. Such drunkenness as he did, or does (for it is 
well to remember that the early agricultural stage is still repre- 
sented among the races of mankind) indulge in, apart from the 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 253 

influence of the white man, was, and is, essentially spasmodic, 
and connected for the most part with special festivals or cere- 
monials, for each of which the alcohol must be specially brewed. 

It is necessary to insist upon this point because alcohol could 
not have exerted any marked racial effect on man until he had 
the opportunity of becoming not merely occasionally, but con- 
tinuously, drunk. 

The racial effects of inebriety. Before discussing the racial 
effects of inebriety, that is to say, before asking how far 
drunkenness in the parents influences the offspring a subject 
of great importance, and one regarding which much misappre- 
hension prevails it will be necessary to refer to certain facts of 
heredity. It has long been known that inebriety runs in families, 
and that the children of drunkards are often degenerate, displaying 
a tendency to drunkenness, epilepsy, and other neuroses, even 
if they are not actually imbecile. Medical men, noting these 
facts, have too readily attributed this degeneracy to the parental 
drunkenness, overlooking the possibility that the latter might 
itself be the result of inborn defect in nervous organization. 

We now know, however, that acquired characters, i.e. char- 
acters impressed upon the soma by environmental influences, 
are not inheritable. No matter how profoundly the parental 
tissues are injured by drink, the effects cannot be transmitted 
to the offspring. So much might be postulated d priori. How, 
for instance, is it possible for a nervous system which has 
undergone alcoholic degeneration so to influence the reproductive 
elements that these latter shall give rise to a nervous system 
presenting the same degenerative tendencies ? No doubt chronic 
drunkenness in the pregnant woman may produce specific effects 
on the tissues of her child, but in such a case we have to do, not 
with the hereditary effects of parental drunkenness, but with an 
alcoholized foetus, and to reason otherwise is to confuse the 
issues. 

This position may be made clear by reference to the mechan- 
ism of heredity. That heredity depends upon the continuity of 
the germ plasm may be regarded as certain ; we may even go 
further than this and assume with Beard for convenience of 
demonstration, at all events that there is an actual continuity 



254 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of germ cells. According to this observer the zygote, or cell formed 
by the union of germ and sperm, divides and subdivides until a 
colony of several hundreds of cells is produced. This cell colony, 
however, is not the embryo. The latter is formed from one special 
cell belonging to the colony : the cell signalled out for this dis- 
tinction itself multiplies by division, like the zygote, and in this 
way forms the soma of the new being, while the remaining cells 
of the colony are enclosed by the soma of which they constitute 
the reproductive cells. It will be observed that these cells 
are thus sister-cells of the primitive cell whence the new 
being is derived, a fact which explains how it is that they share 
the same hereditary tendencies. 

This view, which we have little doubt is essentially correct, 
renders the mechanism of the hereditary process so far at least 
as its broader features are concerned perfectly intelligible. 
From it we see that, inasmuch as the soma merely houses and 
nourishes the reproductive cells, impressions made upon that 
soma cannot possibly be inherited. 

It may, however, be argued that the constant soakage of the 
reproductive elements in an alcoholized plasma necessarily 
injures them, and thus interferes with the normal development 
of the new being arising from them. It must suffice here to point 
out that all the evidence bearing upon the matter tends to show 
that germ and sperm are phenomenally resistant to outside in- 
fluences, nocuous or otherwise : their chromosomes, i.e. those 
nuclear elements which are the bearers of hereditary tendencies, 
are singularly stable in constitution. And, indeed, this strong 
resisting power of sperm and germ might have been postulated 
a priori. No one can pass through life with a constantly normal 
plasma ; every passing illness tends to affect that fluid injuri- 
ously, and were the reproductive cells readily injured by nocuous 
plasma, the effects accumulating from generation to generation 
would soon result in racial extinction. The same result would 
follow were injurious somatic impresses (acquired characters) 
inherited. From birth onwards the tissues are constantly under- 
going disorganization, microscopic and macroscopic, in conse- 
quence of the operation upon them of nocuous agencies, and in 
this way they may at quite an early period of life be abundantly 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 255 

scarred ; from which it is manifest that were these effects inherited 
they would in a few generations accumulate to a degree incompat- 
ible with life. Their non-inheritability enables each individual 
to start life with a more or less clean chart, and is thus a primal 
essential to biological evolution. To Dr. Archdall Reid belongs 
the credit of enunciating this important truth. 

These considerations must influence our views not merely 
of the degeneration produced by unmistakable drunkenness, 
but also of the evil effects of lesser degrees of intemperance, 
and it must not be forgotten that a large number of people 
who are accounted strictly temperate consume more alcohol 
than is good for them. Such reflections make it evident that 
were the acquired effects of alcohol inherited, all civilized 
communities would long since have become extinct. 

While therefore chronic alcoholism produces profound indi- 
vidual deterioration, it does not cause racial deterioration. It 
does, however, produce a racial effect, but this, far from being 
an injurious one as some, and among them Dr. Ford Robertson, 
assume, is, on the contrary, beneficial, for drunkenness, tending 
as it does to fasten upon congenital degenerates, hastens their 
elimination ; and this from a racial point of view is an advantage. 
In short, those lacking in moral grit or unmistakably degenerate, 
tend by means of alcohol to be eliminated more speedily than 
they would otherwise be. 

Not only does alcohol, with cruel kindness, perform a service 
in purging the race of its undesirables, but it produces, in the 
language of Dr. Archdall Reid, " an evolution against itself." 
By the elimination of those who are least capable of resisting 
alcohol the race is becoming increasingly resistant to alcohol. 
This resistance is of twofold nature : (a) physical, and (6) psychical, 
(a) People differ in the resistance which their tissues, notably 
those of the nervous system, offer to alcohol. In some, for 
example, the brain is very easily affected by it, and, as we shall 
see, in many cases of insanity which are attributed to alcohol 
there has been no alcoholic excess as judged by the ordinary 
standard. Members of this class tend to be weeded out by means 
of alcohol. (6) Those who are highly susceptible to what we 
may call the charm of alcohol run much greater risk of inebriety 



256 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

than those for whom it has no attraction, and by their elimina- 
tion through successive generations the race tends to become 
more and more soberly inclined. 

Since this " evolution against alcohol " can only take place 
in communities possessing the means of chronic intemperance 
i.e. having a constant supply of alcohol it could not have begun 
until the advent of civilization. It is further obvious that it 
has been longest in operation among those communities which 
possess the most ancient civilizations. These we must therefore 
expect to be the most temperate by disposition, and such actually 
appears to be the case. Civilization in all probability began in 
the north of Africa, spreading eastwards to Babylonia and 
Assyria, and northwards into Southern Europe, and it is a remark- 
able fact that the Jews and the inhabitants of Southern Europe 
display a high degree of sobriety. On the other hand, among 
the northern Europeans, whose civilization is of more recent 
date, the evolution against alcohol has made less way, and as a 
consequence we find these much more addicted to drunkenness ; 
while primitive peoples, who have had no opportunities for sys- 
tematic drunkenness, even though among many of them there 
has been desultory drinking for thousands of years, show no 
resisting power whatever against the ravages of drink, but suc- 
cumb with terrible facility when a constant supply of alcohol is 
put within their reach. 

Inasmuch as it may now be looked upon as impossible to 
banish alcohol from the world, or to ensure national temperance 
either by legislation or by private effort though doubtless 
much may be done in these directions by judicious action Dr. 
Reid contends that the only way to fight the drink fiend with any 
hope of lasting success is by the continual elimination of those 
who, alcoholically considered, are unfit, so as to allow the evolu- 
tion against alcohol steadily to proceed. While using every 
legitimate means to protect this unhappy class from the misery 
and degradation which drunkenness entails, he would seek to 
make them realize their responsibility to the race, and abstain 
from propagating their kind. Doubtless this is a counsel of per- 
fection, but it is well that the medical profession should clearly 
understand the racial aspect of the drink question : 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 257 

The fact that the degeneration caused by alcohol is not 
inherited ; 

The fact that civilized peoples tend to become racially re- 
sistant to alcohol ; 

The impossibility of banishing alcohol from the world, or of 
effectually protecting the born drinker from the poison which is 
his doom ; 

And, above all, 

The responsibility placed upon the medical man of prevent- 
ing, as far as in him lies, the propagation of congenital inebriates . 
The physiology of chemical stimulation. We may now 
touch upon a different aspect of the drink problem. How are 
we to account for the deep-rooted and widespread love of alcohol 
shown by mankind ? One fact stands out prominently in this 
connexion, namely, that man all the world over displays an in- 
stinctive liking for stimulating substances generally. This is 
shown by such practices as betel chewing in the East and 
pitcheree chewing among the Australians. 

Can we bring this love of things stimulating into line with 
any physiological principle ? We would suggest that the blood 
normally contains materials having an action on the nervous 
system not unlike that of alcohol and kindred substances. We 
now know that this remarkable fluid the most subtly complex 
in nature contains, besides nutrient materials and useless waste- 
products, substances (hormones) whose special purpose it is to 
stimulate function. Our knowledge of their action on the nervous 
system is at present limited, but it may well be that they play 
a much larger part in this direction than has hitherto been sus- 
pected. It is probable that some hormones exercise a sedative, 
others a tonic, and others, again, a stimulating, or even slightly 
intoxicating, effect upon the brain, much in the same way as do 
morphia, strychnine, and alcohol, and that the sense of exuberant 
well-being sometimes experienced is in large measure due to the 
combined action of such substances, just as the opposite con- 
dition of lassitude and depression may be due to the accumula- 
tion in the blood of others having a contrary effect. We may, in 
short, think of the brain as an instrument played upon by a num- 
ber of chemical agencies which may be roughly grouped into 



258 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

stimulants and depressants, i.e. those which cause a sense of 
well-being and those which cause malaise, and we may conceive 
of this mind-instrument as yielding harmonies joyous or sad 
according as the one or the other group of agencies strikes the 
tune. 

Now, given that the blood normally contains mildly sedative, 
tonic, and stimulating substances, and that the sense of exuberant 
well-being and joyous emotion is largely due to them, is it any 
wonder that man, having discovered an essence capable of pro- 
ducing similar effects, should, all ignorant of the danger he runs, 
fly to it with the blind impetuosity of the moth rushing into the 
destroying flame ? 

We must not be misunderstood here. We are very far from 
arguing that, because the tissue fluids normally contain sub- 
stances which engender feelings of health and happiness, man 
therefore stands in need of artificial stimulants. The normal 
nerve stimulants are of such nature and present in such pro- 
portions, as to promote rather than to injure health, whereas 
alcoholic drinks, even when taken in moderation, are apt to be 
harmful, and are but too often imbibed in quantities which are 
unmistakably poisonous. It is even possible that an excess of 
the normal blood stimulants would be injurious. W T e have merely 
sought to offer a physiological explanation of the all but universal 
liking of men for artificial stimuli of one sort or another. 

Here we are tempted to raise the question whether the impul- 
sive craving for alcohol sometimes observed in the congenital 
neurotic may not possibly be due to the deficiency in the blood 
of its normal proportion of stimulants. That dypsomania show- 
ing itself in paroxysmal craving for alcohol owns such a patho- 
logy seems not unlikely. Be this as it may, we feel assured that 
the nervous diathesis is essentially dependent upon the composi- 
tion -of the blood that an individual is nervously disposed 
because his blood makes him so. 

Is alcohol a food ? The question whether alcohol is a food 
has been much debated. Like sugar, to which it is chemically 
allied, it is capable of furnishing energy by its oxidation ; the 
alcohol in a pint of Guiness' stout, for instance, is equivalent 
to 230 calories. Now there can be no doubt that alcohol under- 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 259 

goes oxidation in the tissues : taken in moderate quantities 
the whole of it suffers oxidation, though taken in larger, some, 
no doubt, escapes unoxidized with the breath and the urine. It 
is therefore evident that ingested alcohol furnishes some energy 
to the organism. Whether this energy is manifested entirely as 
heat, or whether some of it may, like that evoked by sugar, be 
converted by the muscles into " work," we do not know. But 
in deciding the question whether alcohol is to be regarded as a 
food, it has to be remembered that the actual amount of energy 
yielded by permissible doses of alcohol is very small no more 
than can be furnished by a quite insignificant amount of starch, 
sugar, or fat ; further, that alcohol promotes the dissipation of 
heat from the body, a loss which must be set against the heat 
gain resulting from its oxidation ; and, finally, that there is 
evidence to show that even if alcohol is capable of furnishing 
a spurt of energy for muscular work, its administration far from 
enhancing the capacity of the muscles for sustained activity 
tends, in point of fact, to lower it. 

On the other hand, there can be no question that the con- 
sumption of alcohol promotes fat formation, and diminishes the 
amount of food needful to sustain the body weight. Thus it will 
often be found that when a person accustomed to alcohol sud- 
denly leaves it off, he eats more. Naturally, malt liquors are 
fattening owing to the large amount of saccharides they contain, 
but spirits may sometimes be observed to produce the same effect. 
We have seen an abstainer rapidly increase in weight after adding 
to his dietary a daily allowance of two glasses of whisky. It is 
probable, however, that when alcohol is taken in physiological 
quantities its influence in augmenting body weight or in curtailing 
the needful amount of starch, sugar, fat, or protein, is very 
small. 

To sum up : the consumption of alcohol leads to an increase 
in the production of heat, which, however, is met by a corre- 
sponding, or even greater, heat loss; it may possibly furnish energy 
for muscular contraction, but, on the other hand, it diminishes the 
capacity for sustained muscular work ; it promotes the laying- 
on of fat, and diminishes the amount of food needful to sustain 
the body weight, but when taken in physiological quantities its 



260 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

effect in these two directions is, under normal conditions at least, 
exceedingly small. 

There is yet one other consideration. It has to be remem- 
bered that alcohol differs from all other foods in the rapidity 
with which it is absorbed, in that it undergoes immediate 
absorption without requiring any preliminary digestion. 

Influence on metabolism. Alcohol has a strong affinity for 
oxygen, and consequently its ingestion checks the process of oxi- 
dation within the body, either of the food-stuffs before they have 
been built up into protoplasm, or of the protoplasm itself. It 
is probably largely on this account that it promotes the lay- 
ing-on of fat and when taken in excess leads to widespread 
fatty degeneration. It is worthy of note that in this respect 
alcohol acts like some other vegetable poisons, such, for in- 
stance, as certain of the diphtheritic toxins, which also, curiously, 
further resemble alcohol in their tendency to set up neuritis. 
The fatty degeneration of chronic alcoholism is perhaps most 
characteristically seen in the liver and the heart. The fatty 
heart of chronic alcoholism is, according to Dr. Wynn Wescott, 
the well-known coroner, the most common cause of sudden 
death. 

Action on the digestive system. Experiments show that al- 
cohol retards digestion in vitro, but we cannot conclude from 
this that a moderate quantity of it has a similar effect in the 
living stomach : in this case we have to take into account not 
only its influence on ferment action, but also on secretion and 
on the movements of the stomach. We can, indeed, only judge 
of its action on digestion by experience, and experience shows 
that, in many cases at least, a sound alcoholic beverage taken in 
moderation does not appreciably injure digestion, while in the 
feeble and delicate it may promote the process, both by its 
psychic effect and by its more direct action on the gastric mucous 
membrane. 

But whatever view be held as to the effect on digestion of a 
moderate quantity of a sound alcoholic drink, it is certain that 
when taken immoderately, or in impure forms, alcohol upsets 
digestion and leads in course of time to degenerative changes 
in the whole of the alimentary tract. Most conspicuous among 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 261 

these is catarrh of the mucous lining. This leads to an exces- 
sive outpouring of mucus and to a gradual atrophy of the 
epithelium, with concomitant fibrosis. 

The mucus being thus in excess and the digestive juices at 
the same time deficient, not only is normal digestion interfered 
with, but the development of saprophytic organisms is favoured : 
the alimentary tract in consequence becomes a veritable labora- 
tory for the manufacture of poisons which, rushing the defences 
provided by the alimentary mucous membrane and the li ver, gain 
entrance into the blood, and thus set up a condition of " indiges- 
tion toxaemia," as we may term it. Dr. Ford Robertson contends 
that it is to this secondary toxaemia, rather than to the alcohol 
itself, that the degenerative changes of chronic alcoholism are 
mainly due. 

That the absorption of poisons from the alimentary tract 
may cause widespread tissue-degradation there can be no doubt. 
Now the more perfect the digestion in stomach and bowel, but 
especially in the latter, the less is the tendency to indigestion 
toxaemia and to the consequent degeneration of the tissues 
at large ; and it is therefore not surprising that centenarians 
generally give a history of sound digestion. Metchnicoff has 
suggested that the absorption of poisons from the large bowel 
plays a prominent part in bringing about senility. Whether 
or not this is the case there can be no doubt that the living or- 
ganism does not simply wear out, but that it becomes senile 
just as it becomes adolescent essentially by the operation 
of definite vital mechanisms, though what, precisely, those 
mechanisms are we do not yet know. Probably the absorption 
of poisons from the alimentary tract though rather, we would 
suggest, from the small than the large bowel is one, but only 
one, among many such mechanisms. The view that the posses- 
sion of a colon is an important factor in the induction of senility 
has, in our opinion, obtained wider circulation and credence than 
it deserves, but be this as it may, it is certain that sound digestion 
promotes sound nutrition and therefore tends to delay the onset 
of senile decay, while it is equally certain that the abuse of 
alcohol, by disturbing digestion and thus inducing toxaemia, 
favours its premature occurrence. 



262 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The well-known " morning sickness " of the drunkard is 
due to gastritis. His gastric indigestion results not only from 
disease of the gastric mucous membrane, but also from atony 
of the muscular coat of the stomach, in consequence of which 
the food tends to linger in it unduly. A similar atony may 
affect the bowel. 

Degenerations from chronic alcoholism. The most character- 
istic degenerative changes met with in chronic alcoholism are 
fatty change and atrophy of the parenchyma, with a correspond- 
ing increment of connective tissue. These changes, as might 
be expected, are generally most pronounced in the alimentary 
tract and in the liver, but no tissue is exempt from them. Their 
distribution varies in different subjects : sometimes the liver 
is most affected, sometimes the nervous system, sometimes, again, 
it is the cardio-vascular system a fact which lends support to 
the view that the changes in question are produced, not by the 
direct action of the alcohol only, but by the indigestion toxaemia 
which it sets up, the exact nature of this toxaemia differing, we 
may suppose, in different subjects. 

The liver in the chronic alcoholic tends in the first instance 
to become congested. Later, fibrosis occurs, together with fatty 
degeneration of the liver cells, though it is doubtful whether 
fibrosis culminating in" hob-nailed liver " is so characteristically 
associated with deep potations as has been thought. Not only 
is its occurrence among hard drinkers infrequent, but it is met 
with in those who have led perfectly healthy lives. 

The heart of the alcoholic tends to undergo fatty degenera- 
tion and frequently exhibits fibroid change. It has also been 
definitely shown that excessive drinking favours arterial 
sclerosis. 

While chronic alcoholism predisposes the kidneys, in common 
with all other organs and tissues, to inflammatory affections, 
it cannot be regarded as more than a subsidiary factor in the 
causation of granular kidney. 

The nervous system is peculiarly susceptible to the action of 
alcohol, and tends in the inebriate to degenerate throughout 
its entire extent. The changes may be acute, as in peripheral 
neuritis, or, as more frequently happens, chronic. In the latter 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 263 

case the neurons atrophy, their place being taken by fibrous 
tissue. One of the first changes observable in the body of the 
neurons is a diminution in the number of their dendrites, and 
this interferes not only with the more organic aspects of neura) 
function, such as muscular co-ordination and vaso-motor action, 
but with the proper association of ideas on which memory, 
judgment, and all the higher operations of mind depend. These 
dendritic changes are accompanied and followed by changes 
in the body of the neuron : the nucleus travels towards the 
periphery, the protoplasm ceases to take up stains in the normal 
way, and finally, the whole cell shrinks, becoming the mere 
ghost of its former self. In addition to these parenchymatous 
changes an abundant fibrosis occurs throughout the brain and 
spinal cord, while an inflammatory thickening of the meninges 
especially those of the brain is often met with. 

Action in weakening the defences of the body. It has long 
been observed that intemperance renders the tissues vulnerable 
to disease, that in the sot wounds are apt to fester, that he is not 
only more liable than his temperate brother to contract pneu- 
monia, but to die if he does contract it, and that gonorrhoea is 
aggravated by even moderate quantities of alcohol. 

Such facts as these we now explain by saying that alcohol, 
when taken in excess, weakens the natural defences of the body 
against certain bacteria. This is now known to be true of a 
large number of microbic affections, foremost among which is 
tuberculosis, and recent researches further show that cancer 
also possibly parasitic in nature is more common among the 
drunken than the sober ; again, it has been experimentally 
demonstrated that alcohol weakens the defences against the 
microbes of hydrophobia, tetanus, and anthrax. So greatly, 
indeed, do even small doses interfere with the process of immuni- 
sation against hydrophobia that it has been advised to forbid its 
use by patients while undergoing immunising treatment against 
this disease and for some time after. 

This disarmament of the body by alcohol must not be for- 
gotten in our treatment of the specific fevers, though doubtless 
alcohol is much more rapidly burnt off during fever than other- 
wise. Not only does the drunkard offer a subnormal resistance 



264 

to the microbic battalions, but he is placed at a great disadvantage 
by reason of the degenerated condition of his heart : even a sound 
heart is sorely taxed in battling through a severe fever ; one 
which enters upon the struggle in a state of advanced fatty degen- 
eration has small chance of emerging successful. 

Action on the cardiovascular system. (a) The arteries. 
On entering the stomach alcohol causes the gastric blood-vessels 
to dilate. Absorption is rapid, the maximum amount being 
present in the blood about fifteen minutes after ingestion. Once 
in the blood alcohol produces a dilatation of the cutaneous arteri- 
oles, thus diverting a large quantity of blood to the surface of 
the body and giving rise to a feeling of warmth. This is especially 
noticeable in the hands and feet, should these have been cold 
previously. In some alcohol is liable to cause flushing of the 
face, and, if freely indulged in, it may in such subjects lead to a 
permanent dilatation of the vessels of the cheeks and nose, at 
the same time predisposing to acne rosacea. The latter affection, 
however, it should in justice be observed, is not infrequently met 
with in the strictly temperate, just as, contrariwise, inveterate 
drinkers may retain pale faces. 

By diverting a large quantity of blood to the surface of the 
body alcohol tends, while producing a temporary sensation of 
warmth, to reduce the body temperature. A lowering of several 
degrees may in this way be effected ; the lowest body tempera- 
tures met with in the living subject have, in fact, occurred in 
the drunken. It is largely for this effect that alcohol is employed 
in febrile states. It may sometimes be given with advantage 
as a preliminary to the cold bath when the superficial vessels 
are strongly contracted, for it relaxes these and thus promotes 
the cooling of the blood by the bath. 

Seeing that alcohol dilates the cutaneous vessels, those who 
are exposed to great cold should abstain from it. This fact has 
long been recognized by the inhabitants of cold regions and by 
arctic explorers ; for them alcohol spells death. Nansen would 
not allow a single drop of alcohol in his expeditions, not even for 
medicinal purposes. It is probable that most of the cases of 
death from cold recorded in the newspapers would be more 
correctly described as deaths from drink : a man falls down 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 265 

drunk on a cold night and sleeps his drunken sleep for the last 
time ; under the influence of the alcohol his temperature is 
lowered beyond the point compatible with life. 

(6) The heart. Large doses of alcohol paralyse the heart. 
Smaller doses may cause an increased frequency of the beat, in 
part reflexly, by stimulating the gastric mucous membrane, 
and in part, perhaps, by acting directly upon the nerves and 
muscle of the heart itself. Alcohol can hardly, however, be 
said to be a genuine cardiac stimulant under normal conditions, 
though in fainting and in debilitated states of the body it may 
act as such. 

Action on the nervous system. The nervous system consists 
of a sort of hierarchy of centres, of which the highest subserve 
the highest functions of mind reason and judgment and the 
lowest (in immediate connexion with the non-nervous tissues) 
the more purely organic functions, such as muscular contraction 
and secretion. 

In this hierarchy each level is in some degree dominated by 
that next above it, all levels below the highest being thus in some 
measure under the control of the highest. Now, speaking generally, 
it is found that the susceptibility of the various levels to the action 
of alcohol is in direct proportion to their hierarchal rank, the 
highest (psychic) centres being the most readily, the lowest 
(organic) centres, such as those presiding over the functions of 
the heart and the voluntary muscles, the least readily, affected. 
Thus we find that alcohol very early affects the mental activities. 
When the supreme psychic centres are in unrestrained activity, 
the emotional nature is under fullest control, and least apt to 
dominate thought and action ; then it is that mental vision is 
clearest, judgment keenest. Alcohol, by weakening the sway 
of the highest centres and allowing the emotional nature to assert 
itself, blurs the judgment. When a man indulges in it his 
ideas may flow more readily, his tongue be loosened, and 
there may be a show of brilliancy, but it is brilliancy of the 
spurious and superficial kind, appraised at its true value by 
severely sober companions and often by his own cooler judgment 
the following day. The successful man of business does not act 
on judgments formed under the influence of the convivial glass, 



266 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

but is careful to check them subsequently by the cold, clear light 
of undrugged reason. 

The alcoholized individual is apt to form an exaggerated 
estimate of his own powers, and on this account we must not 
too readily accept the opinion of people as to the effect of alcohol 
on their working capacity. They may be under the impression 
that alcohol increases their capacity for muscle and brain work 
when all the time it is actually having an opposite effect. 

It is largely because alcohol relaxes the control over the emo- 
tions that its so-called" stimulant " action is due. If we define 
a stimulant as that which unlocks pent-up energy and renders 
it available for use, then alcohol may be said to act as a stimulant 
when it arouses the combative instinct and incites to acts of 
violence ; but it should be noticed that in this case the liberated 
energy is misdirected not turned to useful account and being, 
moreover, followed by a period of reaction, we have scarcely 
here to do with a genuine instance of stimulation. 

It is now, indeed, generally admitted that the action of 
alcohol is sedative and narcotic rather than stimulant. Its 
power to soothe is well shown in the case of the jaded and irritable 
brain-worker and in the muttering delirium of typhoid fever. 
Alcohol may, however, act as a genuine cardiac stimulant in 
fainting, while its effect is certainly stimulant in many cases of 
general debility with feeble digestion, in which it operates essen- 
tially by improving digestion. 

We have seen that the highest psychic centres exercise control 
over the lower. There are occasions when it is good to relax 
somewhat this inhibitory influence. Some people, be it from 
natural temperament or as the result of deliberate self -repression, 
suffer from an excess of psychic inhibition, always reining them- 
selves in, never " letting themselves go," as we say. An occasional 
relaxation of control may in such cases be of benefit. It may be 
brought about by congenial social intercourse, by going away 
for a holiday, when many a man casts off his habitual reserve 
and surprises his friends by his unwonted geniality, or again by 
recourse to alcohol, under the influence of which the most reserved 
natures will sometimes expand astonishingly. We are naturally 
chary in recommending alcohol for the purpose of diminishing 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 267 

psychic inhibition, but it cannot be denied that a little 
stimulant may sometimes do real good in this way. Take such 
a case as the following : A sensitive, retiring, self-conscious, 
and somewhat taciturn man loses, after a couple of glasses of 
champagne, all his self-consciousness and becomes the life and 
soul of his party. We cannot, of course, advise a man of this 
type habitually to indulge in alcohol in order to break down his 
excessive reserve, but it must be admitted that the condition of 
mind induced by it in him, and which finds expression in joyous- 
ness and the abundant flow of pleasing thoughts, is yet, though 
certainly not that in which the intellect is most discriminating, 
in many respects superior to his habitual mental state. Such 
a case is interesting to us because it raises the question whether 
those who are naturally vivacious and chatty may not owe their 
mental temperament to the habitual presence in the blood of 
substances so far similar to alcohol as to be productive of 
similar results. 

The aphorism in vino veritas is only partly correct. True, 
alcohol by weakening restraint allows many potential character- 
istics to reveal themselves, but if the real man is to be estimated 
by all his psychic potentialities, by all the emotions, thoughts, 
and acts of which he is capable under drug influence, then assuredly 
none of us would see salvation. Rather should we take the 
measure of the man when his will has undisputed sway and 
when the baser part of him slumbers in the depths of his un- 
conscious being. 

V. Kraepelin has submitted the influence of alcohol on mental 
operations to a variety of ingenious tests. He finds that even 
a moderate quantity interferes with mentation (e.g. with the 
rate of arithmetical calculation), that it causes a lengthening 
of the reaction time (i.e. the period intervening between the 
occurrence of a stimulus, such as the disclosure of an object 
to vision or the sounding a bell, and the voluntary response to 
that stimulus), and that it renders less precise movements requir- 
ing delicate manipulation, such as those employed in playing 
musical instruments, billiards, golf, or in shooting. Thus it 
has been shown that compositors can work more rapidly without 
alcohol than with it, although when under its influence they may 



268 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

themselves be firmly convinced that they are getting through 
more work than they could without it: 

This is the place to consider the part played by alcohol in the 
causation of insanity. In asylum reports, inebriety easily heads 
the list among the causes stated, and most authorities regard 
it as responsible for at least 20 per cent of all cases of insanity ; 
some go so far as to attribute to it, directly or indirectly, 50 per 
cent of them. There can be no doubt that alcoholism, on 
account of the poverty which it entails and the syphilis which 
follows in its wake, is indirectly responsible for a large amount 
of insanity, but recent researches tend to show that its role 
as the direct cause has been over-estimated. Mott has noticed 
that while on the one hand the insane but rarely exhibit the 
tissue degeneration of the drunkard, on the other their minds 
are often peculiarly susceptible to the influence of alcohol, 
many pillars of society imbibing with apparent impunity an 
amount which would make the susceptible raving lunatics. 
It would appear, therefore, that those whose insanity is attribut- 
able to alcohol are by nature predisposed to insanity, and 
that they are so organized that a very small quantity of the 
drug suffices to upset their mental balance : many of this class 
would no doubt have become insane, even had they never tasted 
a drop of intoxicating liquor. That chronic alcoholism of a pro- 
nounced kind is not per se greatly productive of insanity is borne 
out, we think, by daily experience. Among the large number 
of inveterate inebriates one meets in the ordinary social way, 
how many, we would ask, become insane ? We ourselves can- 
not recall a single instance. The chronic alcoholic certainly 
degenerates mentally : his memory fails, he becomes suspicious 
and untruthful (largely on account of his defective memory and 
his inability to visualize his mental images clearly) ; he loses 
self-respect and will-power, or at least will-power directed to 
virtuous purpose, for he often displays abundant strength of 
will in gaining his own drunken ends but he only exceptionally 
becomes insane. 

Persons afflicted with so-called alcoholic insanity can, then, 
only in exceptional cases be described as genuine inebriates : it 
is rare for them to indulge in large quantities of alcohol. On 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 269 

the other hand, there is a class of congenital inebriates who readily 
take to alcohol but who do not become insane. Indeed, so high 
an authority as Dr. Branthwaite, His Majesty's Inspector 
under the Inebriates' Act, maintains that the sot becomes a sot 
essentially because he possesses a defective nervous organization, 
either congenitally or as the result of shock or illness, and that 
the normally constituted person rarely takes to drink. Alcohol, 
he contends, is, in fact, an effective test of soundness of nervous 
organization, and the circumstance that so many of our hardest 
workers and profoundest thinkers partake of it liberally without 
becoming drunkards is ipso facto evidence of the stability of their 
nervous systems. We accept Dr. Branthwaite's dictum if 
stated thus : a person who under average exposure to temptation 
becomes a drunkard is probably defective as regards his nervous 
system. This qualification seems needful, for assuredly the 
large percentage of drunkenness among publicans and potmen 
is due to excess of temptation rather than of proclivity. 

Nor even among those who become drunkards under an 
average exposure to temptation must we overlook the influence 
of the personal liking for alcohol, which liking has no necessary 
relation to unsoundness of nervous constitution. For though 
an inordinate love of alcohol is probably strongest among nervous 
degenerates, persons of sound nervous constitution may have 
it, and we can conceive of its leading such occasionally into 
intemperance, just as, on the other hand, pronounced degenerates 
often remain sober under ordinary temptation simply because 
alcohol has no special attraction for them. 

Action on the muscular system. We have seen that alcohol 
through its action on the nervous system interferes with the 
accurate performance of delicate movements. Here we have 
to consider its influence on the muscles themselves on the 
capacity of the muscle-machine to perform work. Does the 
taking of alcohol increase that capacity ? Can a man, e.g. 
do more brickmaking or platelaying, or can a soldier march 
better, with alcohol than without it ? This question can be 
answered definitely. It has been proved incontestably that 
while the taking of alcohol may doubtless, by its action on 
the nervous system, lead to a temporary spurt in muscular 



270 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

activity, it reduces the total daily output of work, and the fact 
is so well recognized by employers of labour that when it is 
urgently necessary to get the maximum of work out of their men, 
they do their best to keep alcohol from them. When, e.g. 
the gauge of the Great Western Railway had to be altered within 
the short time of 24 hours the contractors were careful to take this 
precaution. The testimony of experienced generals, again, 
is unanimous against allowing alcohol to the soldier on campaign, 
and their opinion is confirmed by that of Sir Frederick Treves : 
" As a work producer alcohol is exceedingly extravagant, and 
like all other extravagant measures, leads to physical bankruptcy. 
It is also curious that troops cannot work or march on alcohol. 
I was, as you know, with the relief column that moved on Lady- 
smith, and of course it was an exceedingly trying time by reason 
of the hot weather. In that enormous column of 30,000, the 
first who dropped out were not the tall men, or the short men, 
or the big men, or the little men they were the drinkers, and 
they dropped out as clearly as if they had been labelled with a 
big letter on their backs." 

Such experiences prepare us for the conclusion that alcohol 
should be avoided by the athlete in training. Professor Wood- 
head, himself in his day a noted athlete, is emphatic on this 
point. That all, however, do not share his view is shown by 
the fact that the University crews while in training are allowed 
a limited quantity. 

What constitutes a moderate quantity of alcohol? It is 
very necessary to define what we mean by " moderation " in 
regard to alcohol, for the term is an elastic one and susceptible 
of widely different interpretations. Presumably the physician 
means by a moderate quantity of alcohol one which is harmless. 
Hence the important question we have to decide is What con- 
stitutes the maximum daily amount that can be taken without 
injury ? Is it, say, two wineglasses of whisky, or their equiva- 
lent ? Or is it some smaller quantity ? At best this question 
can only be answered approximately. Even if we had at our 
command which we have not the data to furnish an answer 
to it, that answer could not state a rigidly fixed amount. 

It would not suffice to say, categorically, that exactly so much 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 271 

alcohol is the maximum daily quantity that this, that, or any 
man can take with impunity. Our answer must take into account 
a number of points. For example, alcohol acts much more 
injuriously on the sedentary than on those leading an active 
outdoor life. Again, the effects of alcoholic drinks depend largely 
upon the kind of beverage consumed ; malt liquors, wines, spirits, 
all have their peculiar effects, effects which cannot accurately 
be measured by the mere amount of alcohol they contain. More- 
over, the effects of these various drinks vary with their quality. 
Three glasses of a well matured whisky are less injurious than 
one glass of the raw spirit, and several glasses of good old port 
than a single glass of adulterated stuff. Finally, the important 
factor of idiosyncrasy has to be reckoned with. Some people 
are made ill by even moderate quantities of alcohol in any form, 
and the wiser among them soon get to recognize the fact ; on the 
other hand, there are those who can imbibe quite large quantities 
with apparent impunity. We meet with men of fourscore years 
and upwards who continue to take their daily bottle of champagne 
or port, and although most, if not all, of them would probably 
enjoy better health on a less liberal allowance, it is evident 
that they belong to a cla,ss which is peculiarly tolerant of alcohol. 
Thus it is clear that, even if we possessed accurate data regarding 
the effects of alcoholic drinks on health and longevity, the term 
" moderate drinking " does not admit of a rigid definition appli cable 
to all. We cannot say, for instance, that one glass of whisky, 
or a pint of ale, or two glasses of port, even supposing them to 
be of sound quality, will constitute moderation for all alike, seeing 
that one person may be intolerant of all of these drinks, another 
may be intolerant of the port but not of the champagne, a third 
may tolerate port and champagne, but not ale, and a fourth may 
be able to take all three alone, or combined, and yet seemingly 
remain quite well. Our definition must therefore be couched 
in some such terms as the following : A moderate daily allowance 
of alcoholic drink for any given person is the maximum quantity 
(or any quantity below this) of such alcoholic drink as best suits 
him that can be taken without producing any appreciable harm. 

This definition is, however, of little use for practical purposes, 
because very few people will take the trouble to test whether 



272 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the alcohol they take is doing them harm. It should be remem- 
bered that our feelings are not a safe guide in this connexion, 
and that even though a person may claim to feel perfectly well 
while drinking alcohol, his tissues may all the time be undergoing 
insidious injury. 

The only available method of estimating what constitutes the 
harmless maximum is by studying the influence of alcohol 
on length of life. Obviously the harmless maximum, as judged 
by this test, is the largest daily quantity of alcohol which can 
be taken without shortening life. That the inordinate consump- 
tion of alcohol shortens life is well known : no Insurance Com- 
pany will accept the life of a confirmed drunkard. Insurance 
tables show that the average expectancy of total abstainers is 
considerably greater than that of non-abstainers, and many 
offices insure the latter at a reduced premium. We cannot, how- 
ever, draw any conclusion from this as to the influence on 
length of life of the strictly moderate indulgence in alcohol, for 
many of those who are insured as non-abstainers but who regard 
themselves as moderate drinkers, certainly take very much more 
than is good for them perhaps three-quarters of a bottle of 
whisky, or its equivalent, daily. It has to be remembered that 
nothing short of unmistakable inebriety would, so far as alcohol 
is concerned, be considered a bar to the acceptance of a life, and 
further that not a few who are strictly temperate when first 
insured subsequently drift into excess. It is evident that what 
we want is a comparison between total abstainers and strictly 
moderate drinkers. 

An eminent physician, many years medical adviser to an 
Insurance Company, assures us that at its offices the greatest 
care is taken not to accept the lives of any non-abstainers but 
the most severely temperate, and that in spite of this the mortality 
of the total abstainers is found to be considerably below that 
of the temperate drinkers. This shows that what is regarded 
as strictly temperate drinking tends to shorten life, but it gives 
us no indication of what constitutes the harmless maximum for 
the average individual. 

One way of discovering this would be for some Insurance 
Company to split up the insurable non-abstainers into two classes 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 273 

the moderate and the very moderate drinkers, and then to 
compare the mortality of the two. Of course in order to carry 
out this experiment successfully, the term " very moderate 
drinker," would have to be accurately defined, those insuring 
under this head having to guarantee, say, never to take more 
than one glass of sound whisky, or its equivalent, daily. 1 

The position of the medical man in regard to the question 
of alcohoL The public look to the medical man for guidance 
on the thorny question of the use of alcohol, and it is very desir- 
able that he should be able to speak ex cathedra in regard to it. 
Unfortunately, medical opinion is much divided on this subject, 
some authorities holding that alcohol is an altogether evil thing, 
to be avoided at any cost, others that in moderation it actually 
does good. 

We must be careful not to approach the question in any. 
partisan or prejudiced spirit a not altogether easy matter, since 
those who have been brought up among total abstainers are apt 
to regard alcohol as an unmitigated curse, while those who have 
been accustomed to its use from early years are apt to think 
that no self-respecting person should go without it. Opinions 
thus founded are, however, mere impressions ; they have no 
scientific basis ; they must not content the medical man, who, 
casting aside all prejudice, must endeavour to arrive at the truth 
by scientific methods. But at whatever opinion he arrives, let 
him be careful not to take up an extreme or impracticable position. 
If he sees reason to uphold the use of alcohol he must not denounce 
the abstainer as a mere crank ; nor, on the other hand, should 
he press his views extravagantly, though he be convinced that 
in total abstinence lies the only safety. If he is wise he will 
bear in mind the fact that alcohol has " come to stay " among 

1 We ourselves regard the plan here suggested as practicable. If 
it is possible to rely upon the good faith of the total abstainer, it is surely 
possible to rely on that of the very moderate drinker. There are ninny 
such who are all but total abstainers, but who do not wish to be deprived 
of the liberty of taking alcohol upon occasion, and who cannot therefore 
be insured under the more liberal terms granted to total abstainers. It 
would be more equitable if the premium on such lives were reduced and 
that on the lives of the less temperate of the non-abstainers increased, for 
there can be no doubt that among these latter there are many who shorten 
their days considerably by immoderate drinking. 

18 



274 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

civilized mankind and that no amount of coercion or persuasion 
can banish it from our midst ; and he will also reflect that even 
if it could be proved up to the hilt that alcohol in small quantities 
is harmful, it is very doubtful whether an unreserved condemnation 
of it is justifiable. Granted that it does some harm, it cannot 
justly be denied that it also possesses the virtue of creating 
pleasurable emotions, and we should assuredly think many 
times before we decide to rob a creature, born, like man, inevitably 
to a certain share of pain and sorrow, of the temperate employ- 
ment of any means of mitigating these and adding to his joy 
in life. While, therefore, the medical man should fight with all 
his might against the abuse of alcohol, he should, even though 
a firm believer in the advantages of total abstinence from a 
severely hygienic standpoint, look with a kindly eye on the 
moderate drinker, bearing in mind that while the abuse of alcohol 
leads to misery, degradation, and crime, the temperate employ- 
ment of it may add not a little to the fund of human happiness. 

Taking then, this general attitude to the question, our sum- 
ming up as to the advisability of the use of alcohol by the 
average individual will be somewhat as follows : Alcohol does 
not in the healthy promote health, and while it is doubtful 
whether, when consumed in a quantity short of what is mani- 
festly injurious, it can justly be regarded as a food, its food 
value is in any case no more than the equivalent of a very small 
amount of sugar or fat. Since, though not yet experimentally 
proved, it is probable that the daily consumption of aay but 
very moderate quantities tends in most cases, if it affect health 
one way or the other, to affect it injuriously and to shorten life, 
we can only sanction the use of alcohol on the clear understanding 
that, except in disease, it is as a luxury, not as a necessity. Pro- 
vided this fact is clearly recognized, we may countenance the 
moderate employment of sound alcoholic beverages in the case 
of those who can afford them, always supposing that no appreci- 
able ill effects (the results of idiosyncrasy) are observed to follow 
their use. 

Circumstances under which alcohol should be forbidden. 
The use of alcohol as a matter of routine should not be sanctioned 
before the age of twenty-one years. Certainly none should be 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 275 

taken at school. A glass of wine may perhaps be allowed on 
festal occasions at home, such occasional indulgence not only 
teaching the value of moderation and restraint, but affording 
opportunity for discovering the existence of a congenital suscep- 
tibility towards alcohol and to be forewarned is to be forearmed. 

Except in special cases, those who are already abstainers 
should be encouraged to remain abstainers. 

Degenerates of all kinds, and those, whether degenerate or 
not, with a family history of inebriety, should be urged to be 
lifelong abstainers. 

In advising as to the use of alcohol the question of expense 
must not, as it too often is, be ignored. With many it is a con- 
sideration of the first importance. A married man earning, 
say, a pound a week, can ill afford the luxury of alcohol. If he 
and his wife spend four pence a day on drink, an amount which 
represents very moderate drinking, the weekly drink bill totals 
two shillings and four pence, or nearly an eighth of the entire 
earnings. The spending of so large a proportion of the income 
on alcohol is injudicious, even when there are no children ; 
when there are children, it is unjustifiable. Much, perhaps three- 
fourths, of the poverty and misery of the masses is the result 
of their improvidence, and while it is very generally recognized 
that drunkenness is in large measure responsible for the distress, 
it is not so well recognized that even the temperate drinkers 
among the poor spend far more money on drink than their wages 
justify. It has been calculated that the average sum of money 
spent each year on alcohol by the working classes in this 
country, per family of four, is over fifteen pounds. This with 
interest represents nearly 100 in five years. 

While sanctioning the use of alcohol with the above reserva- 
tions, we insist always upon the importance of drinking none 
but sound beverages. The poor should avoid spirits. The gin 
which is largely consumed by the poor women of this country is 
for the most part of inferior quality, and the whisky, which is 
the more popular spirit with the men is, as obtained on draught 
at the public house, a still more pernicious drink, seldom being 
much more than a year old, whereas it is not fit for consumption 
until at least eight years after distillation. Beer, again, the 



276 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

most popular of all alcoholic drinks with the English proletariat, 
often leaves much to be desired in the matter of purity. With 
this, as with their other alcoholic beverages, the poor show their 
customary improvidence. If obtained by the barrel a prac- 
tice contrary to their hand-to-mouth methods a sound beer 
can be got for a shilling a gallon, which is at the rate of three 
halfpence a pint, i.e. less than half that charged at the public 
house, where they get an inferior and often adulterated article. 
Similarly, by buying his whisky by the bottle the working man 
could secure the very best kind at a lower price than he gives 
for his nips of raw poisonous spirit at a bar. Unfortunately 
he often has so little self-restraint that even if he possesses the 
foresight to store his own liquor, he cannot trust himself with 
a supply always ready for use. 

Quantity of alcohol permissible. Speaking generally, we may 
say that a daily allowance of a wine-glass of whisky, or a couple 
of glasses of port, or a pint of mild ale, constitutes strictly moderate 
drinking. Many who would indignantly repudiate the charge 
of excess greatly exceed this amount ; indeed, it is possible for 
a person to be a heavy drinker without in any way realizing the 
fact. We have been informed that a large number of English- 
men in India daily consume, in repeated nips, three-quarters of a 
bottle of whisky, though probably but a few of them realize that 
they are taking so much : it is surprising how occasional drinks 
mount up. No one should be under any kind of misapprehension 
as to the quantity of alcohol he takes, but should have the pre- 
cise amount clearly present to his mind : self-deception on this 
score must be carefully guarded against. 

But even when the moderate daily allowance for the many has 
been arrived at, a variety of circumstances still demand con- 
sideration. 

Thus, idiosyncrasy has to be taken into account ; some, as 
before said, can consume with apparent impunity an amount 
which is manifestly injurious to others. Here personal experience 
has to be appealed to, care being taken that no self-deception is 
practised. The allowance should be limited to a quantity that 
does not, so far as can be observed, produce any ill effect. The 
influence of climate and mode of life has also to be considered ; 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 277 

in the tropics and in very cold regions it is best to avoid alcohol 
altogether. To those living an active out-door life a more liberal 
allowance can be permitted than to the sedentary and confined. 
Nor in this connexion must the dietetic factor be neglected : 
those who over-eat are less able to tolerate alcohol than those 
who eat moderately. It is therefore even more incumbent 
on the gourmands than on the moderate eaters to be strictly 
temperate. Generally it will be found, we think, that those who, 
in spite of free indulgence in alcohol, live to a ripe old age are 
abstemious in the matter of diet. It is scarcely necessary to 
observe that chronic alcoholic excess is more harmful when an 
insufficient quantity of food is taken than when the dietary is 
sufficient, but any food beyond the physiological quantity tends 
to accentuate the evils of alcoholic excess. 

The time to take alcohol. Though in this country it is the 
custom to take alcohol chiefly with meals, such is not the 
universal practice. In Australia, for example, it is the exception 
rather than the rule, and in America the practice is far less 
common than it is on the continent of Europe. Nevertheless, 
the best time to take alcohol is undoubtedly with the meals : 
alcohol is much less apt to do harm when allowed to enter the 
blood in company with digested food than when it passes into the 
circulation alone. The practice of taking alcoholic drinks, especi- 
ally the stronger kinds, on an empty stomach is most injurious. 
Nor should alcohol be taken early in the day even with food : 
most people are certainly best without any before the mid-day 
meal, and those who have to do brain work in the afternoon will 
generally find it a good plan to go without any at lunch. As 
to the " night cap," while not condemning it unreservedly, we 
have no doubt that improvement in health often follows its 
abandonment. It is scarcely necessary to insist upon the un- 
wisdom, from every point of view, of doing business over a drink. 

Kind of beverage to be recommended. When we sanction 
the use of alcohol it is, of course, on the distinct understanding 
not only that the beverages taken are sound, but that they suit 
the individual. In other words, in advising as to the kind of 
alcoholic drink to be taken, due regard must be paid to the 
personal factor ; to some we may find it advisable to recommend 



278 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

malt liquor, to others wine, and to others, again, spirits. Our 
advice to a patient should be somewhat as follows : "If you 
have a mind to take alcohol and can afford the luxury, you must 
be sure that the drink you take is a sound one, but as to the 
particular kind, you yourself should be the best judge ; what 
you find suits you best is the best for you." Not only do people 
differ in their toleration of different alcoholic drinks, but it is 
a common experience that a beverage which agrees at one period 
of life, does not agree at another. Thus people often find it 
necessary to abandon malt liquor as they get older, and later? 
perhaps, champagne as well. They will say, " I cannot take 
such and such a drink now ; I still like it, but it no longer 
likes me." 

Individual experience is, we repeat, the only criterion as to 
the most desirable form in which to take alcohol. The difficulty 
of establishing any surer one is shown by the diversity of 
medical opinion and the influence of fashion in this matter. 
At one time whisky is all the rage, at another light wines are 
in vogue ; for long past port wine has been taboo, though if 
properly matured it often agrees well. 

In the selection of wines, spirits, etc., it is well for those who 
are not good judges and very few are to get the help of a dis- 
interested expert. 



THE THERAPEUTICS OF ALCOHOL 

As a cardiac stimulant alcohol is of use in syncope and in certain 
cases of acute fever, such as enteric and pneumonia. In the latter 
class of case it is chiefly of service in tiding the patient over 
a temporary danger ; it should on no account be given as a 
matter of routine. The test of its value in such cases is its influ- 
ence on the pulse, the temperature, and the general condition 
of the patient : if it slows the pulse, lowers the temperature, 
and calms delirium, we conclude that it is doing good ; but unless 
there is distinct evidence that it is doing these things, it is best 
to withhold it, for it must never be forgotten that alcohol not 



ALCOHOL IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 279 

only tends to poison the heart muscle but also to weaken the 
natural defences of the body against pathogenic bacteria. 

When with hyperpyrexia there is considerable constriction 
of the superficial arterioles, as may happen, e.g. in enterica, 
a preliminary dose of alcohol, by dilating these vessels, may 
facilitate the reduction of the temperature by means of the cold 
bath. 

Simple uncomplicated cases of pneumonia are best without 
any alcohol. The like is true of acute bronchitis, especially 
if the patient is middle-aged and obese ; much more good results 
from judiciously restricting the food than from plying the patient 
with alcohol. 

While alcohol may be of some service in acute disease, its 
chief therapeutic use is in chronic states of debility, such as are 
met with in the anaemic, in the overworked, and in those ex- 
hausted by chronic suppuration, or by such diseases as influenza 
and malaria. It is probable that in all such cases alcohol essen- 
tially benefits by stimulating appetite and digestion. It is true 
that in some it may be quite useless, nay, even harmful, causing 
headache, flushing, and other disagreeable symptoms, but in 
others, under the judicious administration of champagne, stout, 
or port wine, the patient at once begins to make headway. 

The following is an illustration of the value of alcohol in pro- 
moting digestion in a case of debility from overwork. A busy 
professional man finds that after a good holiday he is able quite 
well to dispense with alcohol, but when the effects of his holiday 
have worn off he generally appears at the luncheon table pale, 
weary, and overwrought, with no relish for his food, which he 
swallows mechanically and without feeling any the better for it. 
If, however, he takes a glass of port early in the meal all this is 
altered ; he enjoys his food, the blood comes back to his lips 
and cheeks, and the irritable mood is replaced by one of serene 
geniality, resulting in a flow of easy and agreeable conversation. 
In such a case alcohol not only acts as a sedative but also 
as a stimulant ; it allays irritability and stimulates function. 
Exactly the same experience is repeated at dinner. 

Though alcohol may undoubtedly be useful in cases like this, 
where the weakness of digestion is part of the general bodily weak- 



280 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

ness resulting from fatigue, much may be done to revive the flagg 
ing energies by other means, such as complete rest of mind and 
body for twenty minutes before the meal, the slow sipping 
of some hot stimulating soup or even simple hot water, the taking 
of a dose of quinine or other vegetable bitter, and finally by 
bathing the face and neck, or even the entire head, in hot water. 
The formality of dressing for dinner may go a long way to remove 
fatigue and to give a zest for the meal. 

In fatal diseases which are not likely to run a long course, 
such as carcinoma and many cases of phthisis, alcohol may often 
be given with advantage. In so far as it is capable of soothing 
the incurable patient and giving him a passing sensation of well- 
being, it should be allowed without hesitation, even though 
in other respects it may be detrimental. 

Alcohol in the form of whisky or gin is often given to relieve 
dysmenorrhcea, but other and more efficacious remedies are 
available, and it is not wise to prescribe it for this purpose. Nor 
should we sanction its use for the relief of " windy spasms," or 
for the " sinking " feeling at the pit of the stomach so frequently 
experienced by women, especially at the climacteric. Alcohol 
undoubtedly relieves these symptoms for the time being, but 
the practice of flying to it for relief not infrequently eventuates 
in hopeless inebriety. Most women are best without any alcohol 
whatever during the climacteric. And here it may be remarked 
that great caution should be observed in regard to alcohol by 
lonely childless women. Much alone all day, with perhaps little 
to occupy them, they form a class peculiarly liable to drift uncon- 
sciously into habits of intemperance. 

Dosage. In prescribing alcohol, it is very necessary to give 
precise directions as to quantity and as to the length of time 
during which it is to be taken, otherwise we may find the patient 
taking a larger amount and for longer than we intended. 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 



CHAPTER IX 

ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 
By FRANCIS D. BOYD, C.M.G., M.D. 

IN a number of diseases of the alimentary canal the administra- 
tion of food by the natural channel is either impossible or inadvis- 
able, and the physician must have recourse to methods of artificial 
nourishment. The entrance of food into the stomach may be 
prevented from mechanical causes, changes in the mouth, e.g. 
excessive thickening of the tongue or of the gums the result of 
inflammatory changes or tumour growth, obstruction of the oeso- 
phagus either from the pressure of a tumour or from organic 
changes in the gullet itself, most frequently from carcinoma, or it 
may be from diverticulum, spasm, or the presence of a foreign body. 
Again, though there may be no obstruction, the act of swallowing 
may be so inefficiently carried out through muscular paralysis 
that some form of artificial nourishment becomes a necessity if 
nutrition is to be maintained. In certain acute diseases of the 
stomach the physician desires to secure the diseased organ a period 
of physiological rest for recovery and repair, and it is sought 
during this period to maintain general nutrition by means of 
artificial alimentation. 

Artificial feeding may be carried out by the rectum, subcu- 
taneously, or by means of the stomach tube. 

RECTAL ALIMENTATION 

Nutrient enemata date back to the days of Galen, but it is on 
the work of Voit and Bauer, of Leube and of Ewald, that most of 
the modern practice is based. In the early days nutrient enemata 
were composed of meat broth, milk, eggs, or any other article 
of food which the physician fancied, and very little trouble was 

is 3 



284 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

taken to establish the capacity of the intestine for the assimilation 
of the substances thrust upon it. Now we have more exact 
metabolic observations on which to base our treatment, and 
modern pharmacy has given us a number of predigested foods 
which are more or less easily absorbed. 

The composition of nutrient enemata. Voit and Bauer 
seem to have been the first to carry out observations on the 
nitrogenous metabolism of rectal feeding. Working with dogs 
they found that the absorption of albumin by the bowel was 
greatly aided by the presence of common salt. Eichorst con- 
firmed these results, and it is now generally admitted that common 
salt forms an essential ingredient of every rectal injection. 

Leube in 1872 published a paper on meat and pancreas 
enemata by which he claimed to get very favourable results. The 
enemata consisted of 150 to 300 grammes (4 to 9 oz.) of finely 
chopped or scraped meat ; 50 to 100 grammes (1 to 3 oz.) pan- 
creas, finely chopped and freed from fat ; 150 c.c. (5 oz.) warm 
water were added, and the whole stirred into a mushy mass. 
This was injected by means of a pressure syringe. Leube claims 
to have got good results ; in one case the patient was nourished 
for six months on the enemata. Riegel speaks highly of Leube' s 
meat pancreas enemata. The writer's experience has been 
that they are difficult to administer, that the pancreatic value of 
fresh pancreas is very variable, and that the putrefactive decom- 
position set up in the intestine is marked and is liable to give rise 
to unpleasant results. On the whole the method is complicated 
and not to be advised at the present day. 

Huber and Ehrstrom obtained relatively good results by the 
use of milk, grape sugar and protein, a sugar casein preparation. 
The composition and method of preparation of the nutritive 
enemata which have been advised vary greatly. Nearly every 
writer on disease of the stomach has a formula of his own. 

Ewald recommends the following : two or three eggs are 
mixed with a tablespoonful of cold water, a small quantity of flour 
is boiled in half a cup of 20 per cent solution of dextrose, and to 
this mixture a wineglassful of red wine is added ; the egg solution 
is then stirred in, care being taken that the mixture is not suffi- 
ciently hot to coagulate the albumen. The whole mass should 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 285 

amount to about J of a litre. The caloric value of such a mixture 
would amount to 230 to 300 calories. 

Boas uses 250 grammes (8 oz.) milk, 2 egg yolks, a small 
quantity of salt, a tablespoonful of red wine and a tablespoonful 
of flour. Riegel employed 250 c.c. (8 oz.) milk, two or three 
eggs, a little salt, and one or two spoonfuls of red wine. The use 
of peptone has been recommended by some writers, but clinical 
experience seems to show that it is apt to irritate the intestine 
and cause diarrhoea. The writer has found the following mixture 
to give good results : the yolks of two eggs, 30 grammes (1 oz.) 
pure dextrose, '5 grammes (8 grains) common salt, pancreatized 
milk to 300 c.c (8-10 oz.). The nutrient value of such an enema 
equals 300 calories, and given every six hours the total nourish- 
ment injected would equal 1,200 calories. Absorption under 
most favourable circumstances might equal 500 calories, but would 
most probably be much less. The caloric value might be in- 
creased by the addition of an artificial protein preparation such 
as sanatogen, plasmon, or protene, preparations for which rapid 
absorption is claimed. 

The patient. In carrying out a course of rectal feeding the 
preparation and adequate nursing of the patient are very essential 
factors. Under the conditions where rectal feeding is used, thirst 
is a prominent feature, and the patient should be allowed a mouth 
wash, or water to rinse out the mouth, but should be cautioned 
against swallowing the water. If gastric rest is desired the sucking 
of ice and the swallowing of water must interfere with gastric rest, 
for water is not absorbed from the stomach and must be passed 
on for absorption in the intestine. If thirst be a distressing symp- 
tom a normal saline injection should be given. In cases of gastric 
haemorrhage oral sepsis is common, the patient should therefore 
be provided with an antiseptic mouth wash, and great care taken 
in the cleansing of the buccal cavity. The products of decompo- 
sition in the mouth if swallowed are apt to interfere seriously 
with gastric rest, and to prolong gastric irritation. The rectum 
and lower bowel must be washed out daily with a simple saline 
injection ; indeed some writers advise this should be done before 
en rh nutrient enema, but this seems scarcely necessary. If, during 
the treatment, rectal irritation and diarrhoea should supervene ? 



286 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

a drachm or two drachms of laudanum may be added to each 
injection, or a morphia suppository used. The method of ad- 
ministration and size of the enema are important points. The 
enema should be given with the patient lying on the left side and 
the hips elevated, or on the back with the buttocks raised. A 
syringe should not be used, as a substance rapidly injected into 
the bowel will be as rapidly returned. The enema should be very 
slowly syphoned in by means of a soft rubber catheter and a 
small sized filter funnel. The retention of the nutrient material 
is not then a matter of difficulty. The patient should be cautioned 
to remain very still after the nutrient injection has been given. 
The amount of the nutrient injection commonly used is four to 
six ounces (1 12 to 168 c.c.), which is possibly too small an amount. 
If the enema be given slowly 8 to 10 oz. (250 to 300 c.c.) can often 
be retained, the patient absorbs at least some water, and does not 
suffer thirst, which is a prominent difficulty when small injections 
are used. Large injections do not require to be so frequently 
repeated, a distinct advantage when gastric rest is desired, for 
it must be remembered that the injection of nutrient material 
into the lower bowel excites gastric secretion. This gastric 
secretion, long recognized clinically, has been clearly demon- 
strated by Umber on a patient on whom gastrostomy had been 
performed. After a nutrient rectal injection it was found that 
there was free gastric secretion with a total acidity of 30, free 
hydrochloric acid equalling 20. Gastric secretion is accountable 
for the gastric pain and vomiting which are sometimes such 
prominent features during a course of rectal feeding. Some 
clinicians have advised that with every rectal injection a small 
quantity of milk and bicarbonate of soda should be given by the 
mouth to satisfy the acid secretion and obviate pain. 

It is a popular belief that substances injected into the lower 
bowel are absorbed below the ileo-ccecal valve, but this does not 
seem invariably to be the case. Insoluble substances injected 
into the rectum may, under favourable circumstances, reach 
the stomach. Cannon's observations would support this view. 
Grutzner has shown that if starch emulsion be injected into 
the rectum, along with normal saline solution, starch 
granules can be washed out of the stomach four to six hours 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 287 

afterwards. Church records a case of duodenal fistula where 
the soap and water of the enema invariably flowed through the 
fistula. The passage of the nutrient material through the ileo- 
coecal valve may account for the favourable results in some cases 
of rectal alimentation, and is an argument in favour of increasing 
the size of the nutrient enemata when the patient can tolerate 
the larger injections. That the ileo-coecal valve will permit the 
passage of fluid in every case cannot, however, be expected ; in 
fact the writer has frequently failed to find insoluble particles, 
such as charcoal, in the stomach washings in cases where charcoal 
was added to the nutrient enemata. 



THE METABOLISM OF RECTAL FEEDING 

Absorption Of albumin. Most of the teaching on the absorption 
and metabolism of albumin is based on Ewald's work. Ewald's 
results are expressed in the form of a graphic chart, which, though 
at the first glance it appears very convincing, is in reality very 
complicated and difficult to follow. The data given do not seem 
sufficient to form a metabolic profit and loss account, and by 
recent work the results claimed seem to be quite exceptional. 
Plantenga found a very small absorption of albumin from the 
bowel even when salt was added, and Markwald came to the 
same conclusion. Plantenga in a second communication investi- 
gated the absorption of somatose from the lower bowel of a 
dog, and found an absorption averaging from 10 to 24 per cent. 
Edsall and Miller studied two patients very fully and found that 
the nitrogen absorption per diem equalled in the first case 3 '04 
grammes nitrogen or 19 grammes of protein, while in the second 
it equalled 3'8 grammes of nitrogen or 23'816 grammes of protein. 
There seems thus to be a concensus of opinion that albumen 
is but poorly absorbed even when predigested and when salt is 
added. 

The writer in conjunction with Miss Robertson carried out 
a series of observations on six cases of gastric ulcer treated by 
rectal feeding, when a period of complete gastric rest seemed 
necessary as a therapeutic measure. In these cases the nutrient 



288 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



enema was carefully pancreatized before administration, and a 
complete analysis was made of the nutrient injections and of 
the urine and bowel contents. In every case the period of obser- 
vation lasted over six days. On these observations the tables 
given are based. The figures in tables show the averages over 
the periods of observation expressed in grammes per cent. 

TABLE I. 

Table to show protein and nitrogen of food and protein and nitrogen 
absorbed, with caloric value of absorption as average per diem : 



Enema. 



Absorption. 1 



Observations. 


Protein. 


Nitrogen. 


Protein. 


Nitrogen. 


Caloric 

Value. 


I. . . 


71-43 


11-43 


9-52 


1-54 


39 


II. . . 


41-62 


6-66 


6-87 


1-098 


27 


III. . . 


49-06 


7-85 


10-52 


1-7 


43 


IV. . . 


46-75 


7-48 


3-86 


0-618 


15 


V. . . 


29-71 


4-69 


8-62 


1-38 


35 


VI. . . 


30-6 


4-9 


13-87 


2-22 


56 



In observations 1 to 4 inclusive considerable amounts of pro- 
tein were given (two eggs in each injection). In observations 5 
and 6 the white of one egg was used along with milk. In all the 
observations the amount of protein absorbed is remarkably small. 
In observation 4, a poorly nourished and somewhat nervous 
subject, the amount absorbed is particularly small. In observa- 
tions 5 and 6 where a smaller amount of protein was given in the 
injection, the absorption was just as good as when a larger amount 
was given ; in fact, in observation 6 the absorption of protein 
was better than in any of the preceding cases, and this notwith- 
standing the fact that milk was used in the enema. Milk is 
generally considered, except by Aldor, to be a food-stuff very 
poorly assimilated by the bowel in rectal feeding. 

1 Caspar! in a recent physiplogical study on Vegetarianism (Pfliiger's 
Archiv, Bd. 109, 1905, s. 533) calculates that the amount of nitrogen 
contained in the digestive secretions equals 0'38 grammes per diem. If 
this observation be correct, and if it applies to cases under rectal feeding, 
it would increase the nitrogen absorption by that figure. The tables 
have not been calculated on this basis, as we have no sufficient evidence 
of the digestive secretions under rectal feeding. 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 289 



TABLE II. 
To show absorption of nitrogen per kilo of body weight : 



Observation. 


N. absorbed. 


Body Weight. 


N. absorbed per Kilo. 


I. ... 


1*54 grm. 


51-5 


0-029 grm. 


II. ... 


1-09 


46-5 


0-0234 


III. . . . 


1-7 


48-9 


0-035 


IV. ... 


0-61 


50 


0-012 


V. ... 


1-38 


45 


0-03 


VI. ... 


2-22 


45 


0-049 


Average . 


1-42 




0-0297 



When the absorption of nitrogen is considered as per kilo of 
body weight per diem, it is seen to be very small indeed. When 
one looks into the literature of the subject it is remarkable on 
what a small absorption of nitrogen, nitrogenous balance can be 
kept up in individuals who have become accustomed to a nitro- 
gen-poor diet. Thus in six individuals on a nitrogen-poor diet 
observed by Hirschfeld, Kumagawa, Klemperer, Siven, and Albu, 
the average nitrogen absorption per kilo of body weight amounted 
to 0'116 grammes per diem, and these individuals were kept in 
nitrogenous balance. In Siven' s own case indeed the intake of 
nitrogen was only 0'08 grammes per kilo of body weight, and 
nitrogen balance was kept up for a short time at least. 

Table II shows the nitrogen absorption obtained per kilo of 
body weight. It averages 0'0297 grammes over the six cases, a 
figure far below even the minimum absorption, when nutrition 
balance was kept up in individuals used to a nitrogen-poor diet. 

Table III shows the nitrogen balance in six cases of rectal 
feeding. In all it is seen to be markedly negative. The patients 
were losing nitrogen from the tissues. 

TABLE III. 
Nitrogen balance : 



Observation. 


N. absorbed. 


N. of Urine. 


Balance. 



I. . . . 


1-54 grm. 


3-27 grm. 


- 1-73 


II. . . . i 


1-098 


5-5 ,, 


- 4-408 


III. . . . i 


1-7 


2-4 


-0-98 


IV. ... 


0-61 


6-31 


- 5-69 


V. ... 


1-38 


6-87 


- 5-49 


VI. .' . . 


222 


8-12 


-5-89 



19 



290 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

From these observations it may be concluded that : 

1. Protein food, even when predigested and with salt added, 
is very poorly absorbed in rectal feeding. 

2. The albumin of eggs, as generally used in rectal feeding, 
is a very expensive and unsatisfactory food-stuff. 

3. There is no relation between the amount of protein injected 
and the amount absorbed. Absorption seems to depend more on 
the patient's individual capacity for absorption than on the 
amount of protein food given. 

Absorption of fat. Much of our knowledge of the absorption 
of fat is based on the work of Munk and Rosenstein. Their 
observations were made on a patient with a lymph fistula through 
which the absorbed chyle could be collected. The patient was 
kept on a fat-poor diet, and then given enemata of an emulsion 
of 15 grammes of lipanin, in 0*4 per cent saline solution. The 
lymph showed a rise in fat contents of from 0'18 to 0'45, that is 
to say, 3*7 per cent of the oil was absorbed. In the second ob- 
servation the fatty content of the hunger-lymph was estimated, 
a cleansing injection was then given followed by an enema of 20 
grammes of lipanin in soda solution. The lymph showed a rise in 
fat from 0'06 to 0'37 per cent, and after 9 hours was still 0*23 
per cent. There was absorption therefore of 5 per cent of the 
fat of the enema. Robert and Koch found that emulsified fat was 
slowly absorbed in small quantities, while unemulsified fat was but 
little absorbed. Munk and also Armschink found that the lower 
the melting point of the fat the better it is absorbed. Deucher 
concludes that 10 grammes of fat per diem are absorbed with 
difficulty even in favourable circumstances, and that the best 
results are got by the use of small quantities retained in the colon 
a long time, and with salt added to the injection. 

TABLE IV. 
Table to show absorption of fats as average per diem. 



Observation. 


Fat of Enema 
in Grm. 


Fat absorbed 
in Grm. 


Percentage 
of Absorption. 


Caloric 

Value. 


I. . . 


103-37 


45-85 


44 


426 


II. . . 


47-44 


23-87 


51 


222 


III. . . 


40-24 


14-46 


35 


134 


IV. . . 39-61 


5-45 


12 


50 


V. . . 


9-18 


-2-55 





-23-71 


VI. . . 


14-35 


3-47 


24 32 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 291 



In these observations the fats were estimated by weight after 
extraction with ether, so that the resulting figures may be more 
correctly termed ether soluble bodies. The results obtained 
differ materially from those of Deucher. They show a definite 
relation between the amount of fat given and the amount absorbed. 
The maximum of absorption, 45 grammes in observation l,was 
where the maximum 103 grammes were given in 24 hours. Con- 
siderable fat absorption was got whenever a large amount of 
fat was used in the enema. In observation 4 a small amount was 
absorbed, namely, 5'45 grammes, equal to 13 per cent., as compared 
with observation 3, where, with practically the same amount, 
in the enema, a considerably larger quantity was absorbed. It 
is to be noted that the patient in observation 4 was poorly nour- 
ished and exceedingly emotional and that albumin was equally 
badly absorbed. Observation 5 is difficult to explain ; the amount 
of fat recovered from the stool was greater than the amount 
injected by an average of 2- 5 grammes per diem. The patient 
was a very well-nourished but somewhat chlorotic young woman. 
One can only conclude either that her fat absorption was prac- 
tically nil and that the surplus amount recovered was accounted 
for by the digestive secretions, or that some unauthorized article 
of food was taken by the mouth. The latter explanation was 
indignantly denied by the patient, and considered impossible 
by the nurses in charge, and is not borne out by the figures of the 
nitrogen and sugar metabolism. 

TABLE V. 

Table to show loss of nitrogen of tissues and loss of weight in relation 
to fat and sugar absorption as average per diem by the patient. 



Observation. 


Nitrogen of 
Tissues. 


Loss in Weight 
in Kilos. 


Fat 
absorbed. 


Sugar 
absorbed. 


Caloric Value 
of Absorption 


I. . 


1-73 


0-378 


45-85 


43-8 


606 


II. . 


4-4 


0-245 


23-87 


38 378 


III. . 


0-98 


0-405 


14-46 


61-85 388 


IV. 


5-69 


0-518 


5-45 5061 258 


V. 


5-49 


0-583 


-2-55 


81-1 308 


VI. 


6-89 


0-778 


3-47 


36-96 


184 



In glancing at Table V it is interesting to note that fat absorp- 
tion seems to~play~animportant role as a nitrogen-saver. The 



292 A SYSTEM OF DIET AKD DIETETICS 

loss of tissue nitrogen for the six observations is very much larger 
in those where the fat absorption is poor. Taken as a whole the 
figures show that emulsified fat is a very useful ingredient in 
rectal enemata, and is very much better absorbed than is generally 
considered. 

Absorption of sugar. The absorption of sugar has been 
studied by Voit and Bauer, Schoenborn, Strauss, Leube, Plantenga, 
Deucher, Zehmisch, and others. Deucher gave a patient during 
nineteen hours five enemata containing each 40 grammes sugar, 
and got an absorption of 77 per cent, that is to say, 154 grammes 
were absorbed. Plantenga working with smaller quantities 
got good results. Zehmisch giving 152 grammes per rectum 
got an absorption of 103 grammes. In these observations con- 
clusions were drawn from the amount of sugar or dextrine re- 
covered from the stool, that is to say a known quantity of sugar 
was given by the bowel, the sugar in the fceces estimated and the 
difference taken as the measure of absorption. Exception has 
been taken to this method of observation. It has been urged 
that under the influence of micro-organisms sugar is split up, 
and is absorbed or passed in the stool as the products of bacterial 
action, so that what disappears from the bowel contents has 
provided no nutriment for the patient. This view is supported 
by Reach. He shows that 60 grammes dextrine given by the 
mouth has the effect of raising the respiratory quotient, while 
the same amount given by the bowel does not definitely raise it. 
He considers that the amount of sugar absorbed by the bowel 
is very considerably below the amount absorbed when given by 
the mouth. Dextrine, he finds, is better absorbed by the bowel 
than sugar, and does not irritate the bowel to the same extent. 

It seemed of interest to ascertain how far sugar was broken 
up by the influence of the micro-organisms of the bowel, and 
especially the bacillus coli communis, the most important micro- 
organism of the intestine. It was found that the loss of sugar 
reached a maximum after four or five hours of incubation. A 
large number of observations were carried out. In all the loss 
of sugar was below 1 per cent ranging from 0'49 per cent to 0'77 
per cent. With the exception then of Reach's observations, 
which cannot be accepted as conclusive, the objections to the 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 293 

use of sugar as not being utilized, but as being split up before 
absorption, are wholly theoretical. The amount lost by bacterial 
action seems in reality but small, in fact, below 1 per cent. In 
support of this view, one may cite the observations of Kausch 
and Socin, who have demonstrated on animals that milk sugar 
and galactose, when given by the bowel, appear to enter the liver, 
and are converted into glycogen. 



TABLE VI. 
Table to show absorption of sugar as average per diem. 



Observation. 


Sugar of Enema. 


Sugar Absorbed. 


Caloric Value. 


I. ... 


47-75 


43-8 


179 


II. ... 


38 


38 


155 


III. . . . 


61-85 


61-85 


253 


IV. ... 


57-12 


50-61 


207 


V. ... 


88-14 


81-1 


332 


VI. ... 


39-08 


36-96 


151 



In the clinical cases pure dextrose was used. Table VI shows 
the results obtained. In all the cases the absorption appeared 
good. In observation 3 where 61 '85 grammes were given daily, 
all appeared to be absorbed. In observation 5, 88 grammes were 
given, and 81 absorbed. The absorption seems to vary in the 
different cases, not with the amount given but rather with the 
varying capacity of the individual for absorption. 

The caloric value obtained from the use of sugar ranged from 
151 calories as a minimum to 332 calories as a maximum. In 
none of the cases was there any irritation produced by the dex- 
trose, a disadvantage which has been urged against its use. In 
no case did alimentary glycosuria result. 1 

Table VII shows the relation between the caloric value of the 
food given, the caloric value of the food absorbed, and the loss 
in the patient's weight. The table seems to show fairly con- 
clusively that the observation data may be considered accurate. 

1 The absence of bowel irritation was probably due to the use of pure 
dextrose. Commercial dextrose may contain impurities, such as sulphuric 
acid, which would induce bowel irritation. 



294 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

TABLE VII. 

Relation between food calories vised and loss in patient's weight 
average per diem. 



Observation. 


Food Calories. 


Calories Used. 


Loss of Weight in 
Grammes. 


I. ... 


1,777 


645 =35 per cent. 


367 


n. . . . 


939 


405 = 48 


246 


in. . . . 


869 


431 = 49 


405 


IV. . . . 


894 


273 = 30 


519 


v. ... 


567 


344 = 60 


584 


VI. ... 


428 


240 = 56 


892 



The figures in column 1 diminish from above downwards, so that 
in observation 1 a much larger amount of food was given than 
hi observation 6. Column 2, showing the calories used, diminishes 
from above downwards, but it is to be noted that the percentage 
absorption is not in proportion to the amount given. In observa- 
tion 1 while 645 C. were absorbed (equivalent to only 35 per 
cent of the food given), the wastage was large. In observation 5 
while only 344 C. were absorbed, the absorption equalled 60 per 
cent of the food given. The loss in the patient's weight increases 
from above downwards in the table. When little food was 
absorbed, as in observation 6, in which only 240 C. were absorbed, 
the loss hi weight is greatest, equalling 392 grammes per diem. 
Clinical deductions. The important point for the clinician 
is, Can rectal feeding be relied on as a means of nourishing a patient 
if gastric rest is indicated as a therapeutic measure, or can it 
be relied on to improve nutrition in a case where buccal feeding 
is inefficient or impossible ? The caloric value of the food ab- 
sorbed in the investigations quoted varied from 645 calories as a 
maximum to 240 calories as a minimum, giving an average of 389 
calories. Thus we get from rectal feeding only about a quarter 
of the nourishment required to maintain equilibrium, even if a 
reduced standard of nutritive requirements be accepted. In 
considering these cases it must be remembered that they were 
all cases in which rectal feeding was well borne, so that the con- 
ditions were in fact favourable to food absorption. If the rectal 
feeding was not well borne, if diarrhoea or vomiting was at all a 
prominent symptom, or if the patient's nutrition was obviously 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 295 

suffering under the rectal feeding, other methods of treatment 
were adopted and the observation was not included in the series. 
From the metabolic work which has been done on rectal feeding 
it must be concluded that even under the most favourable circum- 
stances it is sub-nutrition of a most pronounced character. 
Given a patient in poor condition it cannot be relied on alone 
to produce any material improvement in nutrition. This seems 
an important point to emphasize. The surgeon frequently wishes 
to have a patient suffering from cesophageal or pyloric obstruc- 
tion brought into a condition of improved nutrition before opera- 
tion. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that rectal feeding 
cannot be relied on to produce this result. It will at once be 
urged that patients have been known to gain weight under rectal 
feeding. In considering this the absorption of water from the 
intestine must be remembered. After severe haemorrhage or 
persistent vomiting, as in pyloric obstruction or gastric ulcer, the 
tissues are suffering markedly from want of water. On placing the 
patient on rectal feeding, water is absorbed and there may be a 
gain in weight. In one case which the writer studied, where 
rectal feeding was begun after a very severe haemorrhage, though 
the nitrogen balance was markedly negative, yet there was a 
distinct gain in weight after nine days rectal feeding. 

If the physician desires to make use of rectal alimentation, 
it seems that the best results will be got from the carbo-hydrates 
and fats. The absorption of protein food from the bowel is so 
small as to make it of little value as a food-stuff. 

Folin has recently enunciated a theory of protein metabolism 
which would place protein on a much lower plane as a food than 
it has up to the present occupied. He regards proteins, in fact, 
as of secondary importance, insomuch as their nitrogen is split 
off and eliminated, leaving the carbon and hydrogen containing 
part to be oxidized, and thus to yield energy as it is yielded by the 
carbo-hydrates and fats. Folin's views have not so far met with 
general acceptance (Paton), but even without accepting Folin's 
views, we may evidently with advantage abandon much of the 
nitrogenous material which is at present used in rectal alimenta- 
tion. 

There remain then the carbo-hydrates and fats. The best 



296 

carbo-hydrate to use is pure dextrose, but failing it dextrine is 
always available, and is probably better than a crude sugar, 
in that the latter may contain impurities which may cause bowel 
irritation. Fat is best given in the natural state, as in yolk of 
egg. If prepared fat is used, it should be in the form of a fine 
emulsion of a fat of low melting point. Pure olive oil can be used, 
a little being saponified and used to emulsify the whole. The 
.difficulty in regard to fat in rectal feeding seems to be the wide 
difference in the absorptive power of different individuals for fat. 
When well absorbed it is a most valuable source of energy, but 
*he absorption cannot be foreseen in any given case. 

The conclusion to which a study of the metabolism of rectal 
feeding leads seems to be that its field of usefulness is more limited 
than is at present recognized by clinicians. In acute gastric 
diseases it must interfere with complete gastric rest by inducing 
gastric secretion. It must, however, be remembered that while 
the amount of nourishment absorbed is not sufficient to keep the 
patient in nitrogen balance, it may be sufficient to tide over a 
critical period and to prevent an undue strain upon the tissues. 
It is a dietetic means of treatment which, used with intelligence, 
will prove helpful alike to the patient and to the physician. 



SUBCUTANEOUS FEEDING 

When nourishment by the ordinary channel is contra-indi- 
cated or impossible, rectal alimentation may be impracticable 
from disease of the bowel preventing the retention of the nutrient 
injections, or, as in the case of the insane, from the inability of the 
patient to aid the physician in carrying out the treatment. Under 
such circumstances it has been sought to maintain nutrition by 
the subcutaneous or intravenous injection of food-stuffs. There 
are a number of early and tentative observations on this method 
of feeding. Thus in 1850 Hodder made intravenous injections 
of milk in cholera patients apparently with favourable results. 
In 1869 Menzel and Perco experimented with the subcutaneous 
injection of food-stuffs both in dogs and in man. These observers 
were followed by Karst, Krueg, Whittaker, Pick and others, but 



ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 297 

it is to Von Leube that we owe the demonstration of the apparent 
utility and simplicity of the method, both from the experimental 
and from the clinical aspect. It is at once obvious that certain 
food-stuffs are incapable of use by this method, either because 
they are not directly assimilable, or because their solutions are 
incapable of proper sterilization. Thus though Leigh has claimed 
good results from the injection of white of egg, there is no proof 
of its assimilation, and the sterilization of the solution presents 
great practical difficulties. Albumoses and peptones, while 
their solution is easily sterilized, are foreign bodies in the blood, are 
toxic, and are excreted by the kidneys and produce much irrita- 
tion during their excretion. Leube found that albumoses were 
assimilable up to a certain point, but beyond this produced tox- 
aemia and albuminuria. The injection of a solution of 270 grains 
of somatose into a large dog produced a lowering of the general 
health with albuminuria and nephritis, Alkali-albumin when 
injected is apparently assimilated, but its injection causes marked 
irritation, and the solutions are difficult to sterilize. Blood serum 
has been used by a number of observers, but the nutritive result 
obtained from the injection has not been great. It was found 
experimentally that if the serum of one animal were injected into 
another it proved toxic, but if the serum had previously been 
treated by prolonged heating at a temperature of 58 to 60 C. 
it became opalescent, but did not coagulate, and no longer produced 
toxic symptoms when injected. Clinically serum injections have 
been made use of by Reinach and by Salter, but while the serum 
seems to have been metabolized and no ill effects have followed 
the injection, the nutritive result obtained has never been suffi- 
ciently great to justify their extensive use as a method of artificial 
feeding in clinical work. So far then the use of protein solutions 
for subcutaneous injection has not proved encouraging. Until 
we get a protein body which in solution is non-irritating, and is 
capable of sterilization and of assimilation after injection,protein 
must be abandoned for subcutaneous nourishment. 

The use of carbo-hydrate solution would at first sight appear 
both promising and rational, but the result obtained has not 
been much more satisfactory than in the use of protein. Voit 
found that subcutaneous injections of sugar were slowly absorbed, 



298 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

and hence the tissues were saved from sudden flooding with carbo- 
hydrate, and that even with large injections glycosuria was but 
trifling. Two ounces of dextrose could be injected with only 
traces of sugar appearing in the urine, while if three ounces were 
injected only about half a drachm of sugar passed out by the 
kidneys. The injections of concentrated solutions of sugar are, 
however, liable to cause marked pain, and necrosis of the skin has 
resulted. Strong solutions of sugar cannot, therefore, be used. To 
be free from pain and discomfort a subcutaneous injection must 
be isotonic with the blood. This in the case of glucose is a 5 per 
cent solution. A pint of this solution can be injected without 
subsequent discomfort. The nutrient value of such an injection 
is approximately 102 C. Barker claims very good results from 
the use of such injections in exhausted surgical cases as regards 
the condition of the pulse, the general strength, and the relief 
of thirst. Considering the nutrient value of the injection, much of 
the benefit obtained must, however, be attributed to the water 
infused. A patient's nutrition cannot be kept up on injections 
the value of which in the twenty-four hours may reach 204 C. 
Still, such injections may be of use in tiding over a critical period 
of illness. 

The use of protein and of carbo-hydrate for subcutaneous 
injection having proved of no great nutritive value, it is natural 
to turn to fats in the hope that better results might be obtained. 
Fat has a high energy value. In starvation the fat depots are 
called upon to provide energy and to save tissue protein. By 
increasing subcutaneous fat by injection good results might be 
hoped for in cases of subnutrition, where food could not be taken 
in sufficient quantity by the mouth. Much work on this line has 
been done by Leube. He found that fat injected under the skin 
was slowly absorbed in the form of a soap and that fat embolism 
was not to be feared. Working with dogs, he proved that butter 
injected under the skin was stored in the omentum as dog fat. 
Koll, working at the gaseous interchange and nitrogenous excre- 
tion after fat injections, showed that the fat acted as a protein 
sparer and was for the most part used by the animal. Leube has 
used the method extensively in clinical work, and claims that if 
not more than 40 grammes (10 drachms) be injected at a time 




ARTIFICIAL METHODS OF ALIMENTATION 299 

there is no pain, no inflammatory reaction, and if antiseptic pre- 
cautions be observed, no untoward after-effect. Absorption of 
the fat takes place in 12 to 24 hours. Jakob injected much 
larger doses, 7 to 10 oz., without pain, and similar results were got 
by Du Mesnil de Rochemont. He used large injections of olive 
oil and satisfied himself that the fat was absorbed, slowly un- 
doubtedly, and was made use of in the body, so that it could 
be counted on to spare protein metabolism. These larger injec- 
tions have, however, the disadvantage of causing considerable 
pain and discomfort to the patient. 

Much of the value obtained from fat injections must depend 
upon the rapidity of absorption, and it is in this that the method 
seems to fail. Winternitz has recently discussed the question 
from this aspect. The observations were carried out with a 
combination of fat and iodine (iodipin). The metabolism of the 
fat resulted in the liberation of the iodine which could be recovered 
from the urine. The results seem to show that fat is very slowly 
metabolized when injected under the skin, and that even after 
large injections and when absorption is relatively rapid only half 
a drachm to one drachm can be metabolized per diem. Thus 
if a large injection be given, months may be required for its meta- 
bolism. The most that can be expected is a daily energy value of 
20 to 25 calories from fat injections. Winternitz's results if con- 
firmed tell heavily against the usefulness of fat injections in clinical 
work where rapid results are desired, and prove the uselessness of 
large injections. 

The technique of fat injections is very simple. Elaborate 
apparatus is unnecessary. The oil, preferably pure olive oil, is 
sterilized by heat. The point selected for the injection, the sub- 
cutaneous tissue of the mammary region, of the abdomen, or 
thigh, is carefully cleansed. The injection is given very slowly 
by means of a large syringe, two or three ounces being injected 
daily. It is of great importance to give the injection slowly ; 
for this reason some advise the use of a pressure bottle and 
trochar. The trochar is introduced, the pressure is raised in the 
bottle and the oil slowly flows into the tissues. However the 
injection is given, it is not free from considerable discomfort to 
the patient, which may last for some hours, even if the oil is dif- 



300 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

fused by gentle massage. It must always be remembered that 
the material injected is a nitrogen-free food, and in spite of the 
apparent favourable results obtained by some observers accurate 
metabolic observations show that the injections have but little 
nutritive value. 



FEEDING BY THE STOMACH TUBE 

Feeding by the stomach tube is employed in mental cases 
where food is refused, for sufferers from muscular paralysis, when 
swallowing becomes impossible, and in certain affections of the 
tongue, of the pharynx, and of the oesophagus which render 
deglutition painful or impossible. 

By means of the tube food is poured directly into the stomach 
two or three times in twenty-four hours. Eggs, milk, soup, beef 
juice, and solutions of peptone are suitable foods. The stomach 
can easily take a quart of such liquid nourishment, but it is most 
desirable that the food should be introduced slowly. 

Gavage is a term first used to signify the introduction of food 
into the stomach by means of a tube in cases of severe vomiting. 
Food thus introduced is often retained when food taken in the 
rdinary way is immediately returned. A good mixture to em- 
ploy in forced feeding of this description is 1J pints of milk, two 
eggs, four ounces of milk sugar, and a little common salt. The 
caloric value of such a mixture may be reinforced by a protein 
preparation such as sanatogen, plasmon, etc. Such a mixture 
administered twice or thrice daily should be ample to maintain 
nutrition in a patient at rest in bed. 



DIET IN FEVERS 



CHAPTER X 

DIET IN FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIOUS 
DISEASES 

BY CLAUDE B. KEE, M.D., F.R.C.P. ED. 

General considerations. The increased metabolism and con- 
sequent tissue waste involved in the febrile process makes the 
consideration of the diet in acute infectious disease a matter 
of great importance, of greater importance, indeed, than any 
method of treatment. Except in the case of diphtheria, for 
which we have a really scientific remedy in antitoxic swim, 
we cannot hope by drugs or otherwise to limit the course of 
the disease. We can only stand by and put the patient in the 
best possible condition for combating it. The primary necessity, 
then, is to support the patient's strength, which can only be 
done by a suitable system of feeding and stimulation. If the 
fever is prolonged, this may be a matter of considerable diffi- 
culty, as there is no doubt that the gastric digestion is often 
much impaired by continued pyrexia and toxaemia, and sali- 
vary digestion is liable to be reduced to a minimum, the saliva 
being often much diminished and occasionally assuming an 
acid reaction. Pancreatic digestion also suffers, and in a pro- 
longed fever it is chiefly upon intestinal digestion that the patient 
depends. Mastication, again, cannot be counted on in patients 
who may be much exhausted and often delirious. There is 
always, moreover, in the early stages of an acute fever loss of 
appetite, and only too often disgust for food. Under these 
circumstances there is not much difficulty in concluding that 
the food given should be easily assimilable and, for the most 
part at least, fluid. The second great necessity in treating a 
case of fever is to assist, so far as possible, the processes of elimi- 

303 



304 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

nation. It must be remembered that the increased tissue waste 
must lead to an increase of the amount of urea in the blood 
which also contains, perhaps in large quantities, the toxins of 
the disease. The regime prescribed should favour, if possible, 
the elimination of these deleterious substances, and there is 
probably no better way than by supplying the patient with an 
adequate amount of fluid, preferably cold water. 

When the patient reaches the convalescent stage, our object 
is to restore him as rapidly as possible to his full strength, and 
to repair the inevitable waste of tissue caused by the fever. 
A liberal diet is therefore in most cases indicated, although in 
certain diseases the amount of food allowed may have to be 
limited in view of the various complications which are liable 
to appear in this stage. In any case the transition from fluid 
to solid food must be made gradually, and the effect of each 
addition to the diet carefully watched. 

Diet in the acute stage. If a patient is to profit by his food, 
it is highly necessary that his desire for it be so far as possible 
stimulated, and that he be put in the best possible condition 
for appreciating it. In this connexion no point is of more 
importance than the toilette of the mouth. A fever patient, 
with dry baked tongue and sordes on lips and teeth, will enjoy 
his food far better if his mouth is carefully cleansed. Regular 
cleaning, moreover, helps to check the irregular fermentative 
processes which occur in the mouth, and which are liable to 
render the salivary secretion acid instead of alkaline. In severe 
cases, the mouth and tongue should be carefully cleaned every 
four hours with a soft piece of clean rag, and afterwards anointed 
with some mildly antiseptic ointment. A mixture of equal 
parts of glycerine and boro-glyceride is useful for this purpose, 
as is also the ointment which I am accustomed to use at the 
Edinburgh City Hospital, and which consists of one drachm 
of boracic acid to the ounce of vaseline, flavoured with five 
drops of peppermint oil. An adequate supply of fluid drinks, 
water for choice, does much also to keep the tongue moist and 
clean. The serving of the food is also of importance. The 
glass and crockery used should be scrupulously bright and 
clean. Neglect of this is quite sufficient to disgust a fastidious 



DIET IN FEVERS 305 

patient, and render him consequently much more difficult to 
feed. 

The food should be given in measured quantities at measured 
intervals, and the amount given at one time should be small. 
The rule should rather be " little and often." An interval 
of two hours between the feeds is a convenient time, but this 
may be in some cases more prolonged, the amounts given being 
slightly larger. As a general rule, the feeding should be con- 
tinued throughout the night, but it will usually be sufficient 
to wake the patient at four hour intervals. As a matter of 
fact, fever patients are often so restless and have their sleep so 
much broken, that a good nurse finds no difficulty in supplying 
them with sufficient nourishment without finding it necessary 
to wake them. If a feed has been missed, it is advisable not to 
increase the next one to such an extent that the loss is made 
up. It is extremely easy to overload the stomach, and as a 
rule, the patient stands the loss perfectly well. In special 
cases, where, for instance, a hypnotic has been given, or when 
sleep has been previously insufficient, it would be madness to 
wake the patient to feed him, unless his colour becomes very 
bad or his extremities cold. Sleep in such a case probably 
conserves his energy better than food. 

In ordinary cases, where the fever is not unduly prolonged, 
there is little or no advantage in giving more than fluid food. 
In a prolonged fever like typhoid, or in the severe secondary 
fever of smallpox, this may have to be supplemented by soft 
solids, especially if the wasting is extreme, or if for any reason 
the patient enters upon the disease in an especially debilitated 
condition. But in diseases in which the febrile process is usually 
of short duration, as in measles or in lobar pneumonia, a fluid 
diet will be found perfectly adequate in the acute stage. The 
most satisfactory form of fluid feeding in the long run is unques- 
tionably a rnilk diet, and in children particularly this need be 
seldom exceeded. Milk, containing as it does protein, fat and 
carbo-hydrates, at first sight would appear the ideal form in 
which to administer fluid food, but, as will be seen later, when 
the feeding of enteric fever is discussed, many theoretical objec- 
tions to its exclusive use have been raised. Clinically, however, 

20 



306 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS % 

it is by far the best fluid food we can command and, if given 
properly, it is perfectly well digested by most patients. The 
safest way of giving it, and the precautions which its use de- 
mands, will be found in the section on enteric fever, the dieting 
of the acute stage of which may be taken as applying to all 
acute febrile conditions. The milk may, under certain cir- 
cumstances, be supplemented by the various meat broths, beef, 
mutton, veal or chicken, and an occasional change in the basis 
of the broth given does much to vary the monotony of the diet. 
The food value of these additions to the diet is, no doubt, very 
small, but they are usually much appreciated by the patient. 
The different extracts of meat and meat juices may also be em- 
ployed with advantage, if the use of the fresh juice of raw beef 
is not preferred. Another useful adjuvant to a milk diet is 
albumin water. This may be prepared by shaking up the beaten 
white of a fresh egg in about 8 oz. of water to which a little 
crushed ice has been added. The whole may be flavoured 
with lemon or orange juice or with a small amount of sherry 
or brandy. Its employment may possibly to some degree pro- 
vide compensation for the great loss of nitrogenous substances. 
I seldom, however, employ it myself except in prolonged cases. 
In such cases, also, protein preparations of the class of somatose, 
sanatogen, or plasmon may be suitably added to the diet. Often 
a patient who dislikes one of these foods will quite readily tolerate 
another, and the medical attendant also may have his own pre- 
ferences regarding them. I have always found Benger's food 
a most useful preparation, and employ it perhaps more fre- 
quently than any of the others named, though the cheapness 
of plasmon does much to commend it for hospital practice. 
If, in spite of the addition of these various food substances 
to the milk, the patient appears inadequately nourished, raw 
eggs beaten up in milk and flavoured with brandy may be added 
to the dietary. Bread and milk, arrowroot, and other starch 
preparations, and jellies are also often admissible. As regards 
the latter, gelatine has a good reputation as compensating tissue 
waste. The jelly may be prepared from calves' feet or from 
commercial gelatine. It may be flavoured either with wine 
or with fruit juices. 



DIET IN FEVERS 307 

As regards drinks, pure cold water is probably in the long 
run the most satisfactory, and should always stand at the pa- 
tient's bedside. If he is unconscious or delirious, it must be 
forced upon him. Aerated waters are, of course, largely used, 
and without any enthusiasm for them, I must admit that a 
mildly alkaline water is probably often of advantage. They 
tend occasionally, however, to the production of too much 
wind, and in conditions where the digestion is upset they are 
better avoided. A little lemon or orange juice in large quan- 
tities of water sometimes assists in allaying thirst, and in any 
case is grateful to the patient. But it is a question if we should 
endeavour to allay thirst, as it is by ingesting large quantities 
of fluid that the patient facilitates the elimination of toxins 
and waste products. Tea may be allowed in moderation in 
most fevers, and is best given with plenty of milk. Cocoa is 
tolerated if the digestion remains fairly good, and a little strong 
coffee made with a very large proportion of milk is occasionally 
useful for patients who have a great dislike to milk given alone. 

Diet in convalescence. With the return of the temperature 
to normal the first solids may be given, if the prolonged nature 
of the illness has not made their previous use permissible. Sponge 
cake or sponge biscuit, given with a cup of tea or a glass of 
milk, is a useful first addition to a fluid diet. Milk puddings, 
fish soups, meat soups flavoured with vegetable juices and 
thickened with rice or oatmeal, finely minced raw meat sand- 
wiches, oysters, well stewed fruit, and potatoes, well boiled 
and mashed with meat gravy or butter, are all suitable for the 
dietary of early convalescence. Thereafter fish, whiting for 
choice, sweetbreads, and in a few days white meat such as 
chicken. From chicken the patient may progress to a chop, 
after which his digestion may reasonably be regarded as capable 
of dealing with any ordinary diet. 

The above suggestions indicate very briefly the diet which 
may usefully be employed in pyrexial conditions. Each disease, 
however, has its own peculiarities, and may from the nature 
of its pathology and complications demand special treatment. 
The dietary suitable for each is discussed in more detail in the 
following pages. As regards stimulation, the indications for 



308 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

its employment differ very considerably in the different fevers. 
Suffice it to say here that as a rule it is unnecessary in the acute 
infectious diseases, that children particularly are often better 
without it, but that in some conditions its use is indispensable. 



DIET IN ENTERIC FEVER 

It is universally admitted that in no acute infectious disease 
must more care be exercised with regard to the diet than in 
enteric fever. The conditions presented by this fever are such 
as to force upon the practitioner's attention various problems 
in connexion with the feeding of the patient. When we con- 
sider how extremely protracted the illness may be, and how 
enormous is the amount of tissue waste involved in the process, 
our tendency is to be liberal in our dietary with a view to main- 
tain the strength of the patient and to shorten his convalescence. 
On the other hand, when we remember the state of the small 
intestine, often deeply ulcerated, always more or less impaired 
in its digestive power, we are rather inclined to cut down supplies 
of nourishment to the lowest possible amount, in the fear lest 
by giving too much we may but aggravate the condition. The 
result is that the dietaries which have been recommended for 
enteric fever vary from what might be fairly described as a 
full diet to what might, without injustice, be termed no diet 
at all. Between these extremes there is an extraordinary choice 
of dietetic systems, all of which are claimed as having given 
admirable results. 

The results obtained by systems, very different in theory, 
but apparently equally successful in practice, almost lead us to 
the heretical conclusion that diet, after all, is not a matter of 
such supreme importance in enteric fever. Patients often do 
admirably with large quantities of solid food. Others do equally 
well on a diet from which all solids are excluded, or which may 
be even limited to small quantities of water alone for days 
at a time. If any deduction is to be made from this it is, I 
think, that the condition of the food when it reaches the small 
intestine is a matter of much more importance than its con- 



DIET IN FEVERS 309 

dition when it is offered to the patient. The residuum left by 
milk may be, and often is, far more irritating to the intestine 
than the residuum of a mutton chop. Another point worth 
considering in this connexion is that in many cases of enteric 
fever the bowel is very slightly affected. In many cases, fatal 
from toxaemia, the intestinal lesions are most insignificant, 
and occasionally are wanting altogether. Probably, a con- 
siderable proportion of the patients who recover have but little 
ulceration, and of them it would be certainly fair to conclude 
that they would get through the fever whether their diet was 
solid or fluid. 

The most reasonable course to take in prescribing a diet 
for an enteric patient is, I think, to treat him as a patient and 
not as a case, and to modify the dietary according to his per- 
sonal idiosyncrasies and the character of his illness. On the 
other hand, it is highly desirable to have some definite line of 
treatment, and the diet must necessarily be such as not to inter- 
fere in any way with the theory on which that treatment is based. 
It is my intention in this article first to describe a dietary which 
may be used with advantage whether the patient is treated 
expectantly, with antiseptics, or with cold baths ; secondly, 
to discuss the modifications which may be called for in the 
presence of certain complications ; and lastly, to give some 
account of special dietaries which have been suggested by various 
writers, and which seem to me to be worthy of notice. The 
practitioner, however, whose experience of treating this fever 
is limited, will do well to rely, at first at any rate, on a dietary 
more or less on the lines indicated below. 

Diet for ordinary cases in the acute stage. The value of 
milk as a food in any fever is, of course, beyond all question, 
and it is still recognized by most authorities as the most suitable 
form of diet for cases of enteric fever. Still, if the greatest care 
is not taken, there are few foods which are capable of doing 
more harm. The famous epitaph of Graves has, perhaps, been 
responsible for a tendency to overfeed fever patients. Over- 
feeding, if the staple article of diet is milk, may be very danger- 
ous, as if more is ingested than the patient's alimentary system 
can adequately deal with, large masses of undigested curd are 



310 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

left to irritate the ileum and the lower bowel. The result is 
meteorism or diarrhoea, which are always dangerous and too 
often fatal. On the other hand, it is not enough to merely 
limit the amount of milk which is to be given in the twenty-four 
hours. Even moderate and reasonable quantities, given im- 
properly, may cause much mischief. The most common error, 
one far too frequently met with, is to allow the milk to stand 
at the patient's bedside. As a result, it is used to quench his 
thirst, and small amounts are taken at very short intervals. 
Undigested milk is mixed with partially digested and com- 
pletely digested milk in the stomach, and the whole mass may 
be passed on into the duodenum very imperfectly treated by 
the gastric juices. The consequence is that the stomach gets 
no rest, and the intestine is asked to deal with masses of curd. 
Under such circumstances it is quite impossible to expect good 
results. 

Rules for the administration of milk. Milk, however, still 
remains, in my opinion, far the best staple food for the enteric 
patient, and all that is necessary to render its employment 
perfectly safe is to lay down sufficiently rigid rules for its admi- 
nistration. The first of these is that on no account is it to be 
used to quench the patient's thirst. Rather is it to be regarded 
as the solid part of his food, water being supplied freely when 
he requires it. Secondly, the milk should be supplied in measured 
quantities and at regular intervals. Each supply should be 
looked upon as a definite meal. As regards the length of the 
interval between these meals I am accustomed to make it two 
hours. In many cases, no doubt, a large amount of milk every 
three hours would be equally satisfactory, and at night it will be 
often found advisable to prolong the intervals so as to disturb 
the patient's sleep as little as possible. It would be imprudent, 
however, to leave the patient without nourishment for more 
than four hours, even at night. As regards the amount of milk 
given, I am convinced that the power of milk digestion in the 
average patient is much overrated. I never start a case on 
more than 3 oz. every two hours, that is to say, somewhat under 
two pints daily. It is seldom of advantage to increase this amount 
beyond 4 or 4 ozs, two hourly. Personally, I make 4 oz. my 



DIET IN FEVERS 311 

maximum amount, and do not often exceed 3J. Larger quan- 
tities are often very imperfectly digested. 

The milk is always the better for being diluted, and for this 
purpose hot water may be added in the proportion of 1 to 4, 
or 1 to 3, of milk. The warmth of the mixture assists the diges- 
tion, which is also aided by the dilution, the curd being probably 
less firm. If more drastic methods of moving the bowels are 
objected to, fluid magnesia may be added to the water used 
as the diluent. Lime water is also very useful in this connexion, 
should there be a tendency to diarrhoea. 

Another rule of great importance is that the portion of milk 
must be consumed within a reasonable limit of time, certainly 
within a quarter of an hour. On no account is it to be allowed 
to stand at the bedside. It is very necessary that the stomach 
should have an adequate rest before the next meal. 

As long as milk is given as the staple article of diet, it i.< 
highly desirable for the stools to be carefully examined daily. 
The presence of undigested curd, whether in large masses or 
small flakes, proves that either more milk is being given than 
the digestion can tolerate, or that proper care is not being exer- 
cised in its administration. The deduction of half an ounce 
from the two hourly allowance is often sufficient to cause a com- 
plete disappearance of curds from the motions, and as a result 
to check that looseness of the bowels so often occasioned by the 
presence of undigested food in the intestine. If it is found that 
milk is badly tolerated by the patient, even when given care- 
fully, an admirable substitute may be found in whey. 

Supplements to an exclusive milk diet While many patients 
are quite sufficiently nourished by milk alone, it is advisable 
to supplement such a diet by the use of beef tea, meat extracts, 
and similar preparations. As regards the first, it is well to wait 
till the patient has been twenty-four hours under observation. 
Should diarrhoea be present, the use of hot beef-tea would only 
aggravate it ; should there be blood in the stools, anything 
tending to loosen the bowels is to be deprecated. On the other 
hand, if after a short period of observation it is found that the 
patient is not suffering from diarrhoea and that the condition of the 
stools is satisfactory, the use of one or other of the meat broths 



312 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

is of distinct advantage. A purely milk diet is terribly mono- 
tonous, and a reasonable allowance of chicken or beef -tea is much 
appreciated by the patient, even though its food value may 
be very small. These preparations should be given well salted. 
They form, indeed, an admirable vehicle for the salt which 
is so much craved for by patients who are kept upon an exclusive 
milk diet. Much of the hunger, in fact, which is so character- 
istic of enteric fever is probably due to the deprivation of salt 
which a strict milk regime entails. The first articles of food 
desired are usually those which have a salt flavour, such as 
ham, kippered herrings, and the like. And this " false appe- 
tite " often disappears completely if a sufficiency of salt is added 
to the chicken or beef tea. I prefer this to salting the patient's 
milk which, however, may be done in moderation if it is con- 
sidered undesirable to use the meat preparations. Taste is 
often so blunted in enteric fever that an amount of salt, which 
would be nauseous to an individual in health, is readily tolerated. 
Still, it is necessary to take the greatest care not to disgust the 
patient with milk if he is to depend on it as his chief article of diet. 

Value of beef-tea, etc. It has been said above that the actual 
food value of beef or chicken tea is probably extremely small. 
They are much more useful as stimulants and hypnotics. Pro- 
fessor Wyllie, to whose teaching and example I owe this particular 
system of dieting, was accustomed when at the Edinburgh City 
Hospital to recommend that the daily allowance of beef-tea, 
usually a pint, should be divided into three equal portions, the 
first of which, given at midday, broke the monotony of the con- 
stantly repeated milk, the second, given very hot at night, assisted 
the patient to get to sleep, and the third, given in the early 
hours of the morning as a stimulant, helped to tide the patient 
over the period of his greatest depression. I am certainly^con- 
vinced that by a rational use of hot chicken or beef- tea in"this 
manner, hypnotics and alcoholic stimulants can be often dis- 
pensed with. The distinct laxative effect of beef- tea, moreover, 
is occasionally very useful. 

In cases of diarrhoea it may be found advantageous to make 
use of the many meat extracts which are nowadays available, 
or to employ raw meat juice. As a rule, the former preparations 



DIET IN FEVERS 313 

are the most convenient. They should be given cold and mixed 
with a little water. I usually prescribe bovinine, in the nutri- 
tive value of which I have a very firm belief. Valentine's 
meat juice is also admirably tolerated by patients with severe 
diarrhoea, and a very pleasant and sustaining preparation is 
Brand's chicken jelly, which is the most agreeable of the three 
from the point of view of the average patient. There is a wide 
choice of meat extracts, and the practitioner will do well to 
employ the one in which he has reason to feel most confidence, 
always provided, of course, he is satisfied that it will not aggravate 
the diarrhoea. 

Through the whole of the acute stage much may be gained 
by the careful inspection daily of the patient's mouth and tongue. 
The toilette of the mouth is most important and if, when this 
is -carefully attended to, the tongue still remains very dry, the 
suspicion should be aroused that fluids are not being given in 
sufficient amount. 

Additions to the above diet in prolonged cases. While in 
my experience the average enteric patient maintains his strength 
satisfactorily on the limited diet outlined above, in certain 
cases it will be found advisable to supplement it. When the 
fever is very prolonged and there is excessive wasting, such 
substances as plasmon, somatose, sanatogen and similar pre- 
parations may be added. Half an egg beaten up in a little 
milk with a teaspoonf ul or two of brandy can be given twice in 
the twenty-four hours. Albumin water may also be found useful. 
A small amount of very well boiled rice may be added to the 
beef or chicken tea allowed to the patient. Jelly with various 
fruit or wine flavourings may also be safely employed to supple- 
ment the diet. This greater liberality is also advisable in cases 
of relapse, especially if the first attack has been at all prolonged. 
Wasting is, of course, to be expected in every case of enteric fever 
but it may unquestionably be allowed to go too far. Any of 
the above additions to the dietary may also be made in cases 
where the hunger of the patient appears to remain unaffected 
by an increase in the amount of milk given, or by the addition 
of more salt to the food allowed. This is particularly the case 
during the stage of defervescence. 



314 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Indications for increasing the diet in convalescence. Assum- 
ing a patient has satisfactorily passed through his fever, and 
his temperature is approaching the normal line, when is the 
first increase of diet to be made ? Much must depend upon 
the circumstances of the individual case. Unless he is really 
hungry, there is no particular advantage in making any addition 
to the diet till the temperature is steadily normal. By " real 
hunger " is to be understood a genuine craving for food ; that 
is to say, it is not enough for the patient to reply that he is hun- 
gry when asked. He must volunteer the information himself. 
If his hunger is real and all precautions to satisfy a false appe- 
tite have already been taken, some addition to his food may be 
allowed when his temperature is normal in the mornings, the 
evening readings being disregarded. Should his diet, up to 
this point, have consisted exclusively of milk and meat broths, 
with the few extras that may have been permitted in prolonged 
cases, it is obvious that, before he is allowed solid food, he must 
be content with semi-solids and " sloppy " materials. Benger's 
food or boiled bread and milk are usually my first additions, 
and the effect of even this slight increase of diet on the tempera- 
ture of the patient should be carefully noted. If the morning 
temperature remains normal, the bread and milk is continued 
for two or three days, the amount given being gradually increased 
and a little well-made oatflour porridge being added to give 
variety. By this time the evening temperature has also fre- 
quently settled, but even if not another increase may be safely 
tried, always provided there has been no rise above normal in 
the mornings. At this stage the first solids may be given, a 
sponge biscuit or a small amount of light sponge cake being a 
quite suitable substance to experiment with. If this is toler- 
ated, I am accustomed next day to allow a very small quantity 
of white fish. This should be boiled or steamed, and all skin 
should be carefully removed. The best fish for this purpose 
is whiting, but in hospital practice fresh haddock forms an 
admirable substitute. A very thin finger of bread, from which 
all crust has been cut, may be given with the fish. On the 
following day, always assuming the morning temperature re- 
mains steadily normal, a little thin bread and butter may be 



DIET IN FEVERS 315 

allowed at breakfast and tea time, the patient still receiving 
a reasonable quantity of milk at definite intervals, and beef or 
chicken tea being continued exactly as before. For three or 
four days this diet may be continued, the amount of food given 
being cautiously increased, and such additions as a little baked 
custard pudding or some well boiled milk -pudding may be per- 
mitted. Should the morning temperature rise above normal, 
it is wisest to go back to the fluid diet at once, until at least 
the cause of the pyrexia has been ascertained. It is quite pos- 
sible, of course, that the cause may lie elsewhere than in the 
diet. Constipation, for instance, is often troublesome at this 
stage, and the temperature of the enteric convalescent, being 
extremely mobile, is very readily affected by it. Such complica- 
tions, moreover, as phlebitis, otitis media, and superficial skin 
abscesses may supervene in convalescence and cause some 
degree of fever. In such instances it is rarely necessary to 
make much modification in the diet and, the pyrexia being 
satisfactorily accounted for, the appetite of the patient may 
be taken as a rough guide for the amount of food required. 

Should, however, the addition of solids to the dietary leave 
the temperature quite unaffected, after a few days of steady 
increase in the amount of food given, a further step may be 
taken and the patient allowed a little of the breast or wing of 
a chicken. My patients, as a rule, receive this from three to 
five days after their first allowance of fish. With the chicken 
may be given a little mashed potato, which, indeed, I frequently 
allow to be added when the diet is still limited to fish. Chicken 
having been allowed, except for the addition of stewed fruit, 
the diet is kept well in hand till all chances of relapse are over, 
after which (say after a fortnight's normal temperature) there 
is no reason why meat should not be allowed in moderation. 
In moderation, indeed, success in the dieting of an enteric patient 
usually lies. As much variety of food as possible should be 
given, but at first only in small amounts. 

The temperature in convalescence and relapses. It will 
be noticed that very little attention is paid to the evening tem- 
perature. As a matter of fact it cannot be regarded as a reliable 
guide. A temperature which is normal in the morning .and 



316 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

swings up one or two degrees at night sometimes depends upon 
inanition. It is a " starvation temperature " and the longer 
one waits for it to settle the less likely is it to do so. Extra 
feeding often brings it down to normal in a couple of nights. 
A point of more importance to notice is whether the temperature 
is subnormal rather than normal. A case in which the tem- 
perature is steadily subnormal after the. completion of the 
lysis seldom relapses. If, on the other hand, it runs along the 
normal line, as it is usually marked on clinical charts, there 
is a considerable chance of relapse. In the latter circumstance 
it is wiser to be moderate with the feeding and to advance the 
patient less rapidly, restricting him rather to the stage of fish 
and light farinaceous foods. 

As to the effect of diet on the occurrence of relapses it is, I 
think, very problematical. An injudicious addition to the 
diet may cause a rise of temperature most undoubtedly, but such 
a rise will subside on the removal of the cause. In some patients, 
especially in those who have been very rigidly dieted, the first 
addition of solid food occasionally causes some elevation of 
temperature, possibly from a reflex cause. To others again 
the first allowance of solids is such an event that their excite- 
ment is quite sufficient to account for the subsequent pyrexia. 
But these rises of temperature are not repetitions of the original 
fever. In other words, they are not relapses. They are due 
merely to local irritation or to nervous excitement as the case 
may be. They are also often due to constipation. The fact 
that, in cases which relapse, the spleen remains markedly enlarged 
during the apyrexial interval would point to the cause of relapses 
being connected with that organ, and it may be added that 
relapses occur at least as frequently in those cases which are 
dieted rigidly as in those which are fed liberally. This is shown 
by the fact that the percentage of relapses in a series of 397 
consecutive cases of enteric fever, who were fed less liberally 
and less early in convalescence than is suggested above was 
5*79, whereas out of a subsequent series of 758 cases, whose 
diet was on the exact lines I have indicated, only 3-95 per cent 
relapsed. Both series were treated by myself in the Edinburgh 
City Hospital. The fact that the general treatment differed 



DIET IN FEVERS 317 

considerably is of little importance. The figures go far to show 
that relapses are at least not increased by early and liberal 
feeding in convalescence, as do also those published by Kinnicutt, 
which are quoted later in this article. 

Drink of the patient during the fever. In the acute stage 
of the fever we have seen that the patient is restricted to a fluid 
diet. But it was emphasized that the milk is to be regarded 
as the solid part of the patient's food and must be given in regular 
meals. It cannot, then, be used to quench the patient's thirst. 
For the latter purpose there is nothing more suitable than cold 
water, which must always be kept standing at the bedside so 
that the invalid can help himself. The greatest attention 
must be paid by the nurse to unconscious and delirious patients, 
and water should be offered them frequently and forced upon 
them when necessary. Much good, in fact, can be done by forcing 
large quantities of water upon patients. All will probably 
agree that 3 or 4 pints a day should be a minimum allowance.i 
As regards greater amounts than this the reader is referred 
to the discussion on a subsequent page of the subject of systematic 
treatment by the ingestion of large quantities of cold water. 

We are accustomed to see large quantities of aerated waters 
given in the various fevers, usually in conjunction with milk. 
In enteric fever I cannot but think that they are a most un- 
desirable addition to the liquids allowed. They are most liable 
to cause more or less distension, and there are few conditions likely 
to do so much harm in the course of enteric fever. Meteorism, 
indeed, is one of the complications which, when it occurs, calls 
for some modification of the diet, and it seems reasonable to 
prevent its occurrence, as far as possible, by avoiding anything 
which may cause accumulation of gas in the intestines. It 
may be admitted that the average British patient, unlike his 
American cousin, seems to have the most rooted objection to 
drinking plain cold water, unless, of course, he suffers from intense 
thirst. To induce him to drink more a lemon acid drink may 
be prescribed, composed of a few drops of dilute hydrochloric 
acid and syrup of lemons very freely diluted, but retaining 

1 The 3 or 4 pints of water recommended are in addition to the flui.l 
diet already prescribed. 



318 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

a sufficient taste of acid to be refreshing to the patient. It is 
always easier to induce a patient to drink something which has 
a definite flavour, and moreover hydrochloric acid has a certain 
classical reputation in the therapeutics of fever, and has been re- 
commended as a mild febrifuge both by Murchison and Fagge. 

Under ordinary circumstances it is only reasonable to allow 
tea to those patients who appreciate it. A cup of tea given 
to a female patient at about 4 o'clock in the afternoon is usually 
rather good for her than otherwise. It is an event in the dreary 
monotony of the day and has, as a rule, a good effect mentally. 
It is needless to say it should be freshly infused, not too strong, 
and given with plenty of milk. The only contra-indication is marked 
insomnia, although it is very doubtful if tea exercises much effect 
in keeping awake those who are thoroughly accustomed to it. 

Alcohol in enteric fever. It is entirely a mistake to suppose 
that enteric fever patients need alcohol necessarily as a routine. 
On the contrary, it is certain that much harm may be caused 
by its indiscriminate use. The too liberal employment of stimu- 
lants in this fever is associated in my mind with such conditions 
as restlessness of the patient, irritability of the bowels, and 
increased liability to haemorrhage, and other ulcerative accidents. 
The vast majority of patients are able to dispense entirely with 
alcoholic stimulants throughout the whole course of their fever. 
Of my own patients not more than one in ten is systematically 
dosed with alcohol. A slightly larger number get occasional 
doses should necessity arise. 

As regards the indications for stimulation, patients who 
are alcoholic will probably require it. Elderly patients, again, 
persons over forty years of age, are much more likely to benefit 
by the use of alcohol than children or young adults. When 
the pulse becomes rapid, exceeding 120 hi an adult, when the 
first sound of the heart is almost or quite inaudible at the base, 
and when the tongue is severe and very dry, the advisability 
of prescribing stimulants must be seriously considered. In 
cases, also, where there is marked pulmonary congestion alcohol 
is often of great advantage. Even in these circumstances, 
however, its systematic and regular use may not be necessary 
and often very small amounts once or twice repeated may have 



DIET IN FEVERS 319 

the effect desired. In every case the result of the dose of alcohol 
must be carefully noted, and if it does not favourably affect 
the rate and character of the pulse there is little use in persisting 
with it. If, again, the patient becomes restless and excited, 
it is probably doing him more harm than good. It is always 
well to remember Jenner's advice on this subject. If in any 
doubt about stimulating, don't ! 

Stimulants may be found useful in small quantities on certain 
special occasions. If the cold bath treatment is being sys- 
tematically used a small dose is prescribed by most authorities 
immediately after the patient is removed from the bath. Again, 
after irrigation of the large intestine, a prolonged and some- 
what exhausting operation, it may be occasionally advisable 
to give a small quantity of spirits. Under certain circum- 
stances, again, a little whisky in the form of hot toddy may be 
found useful as a soporific if a cupful of hot beef- tea has failed, 
and if a hypnotic drug is not thought necessary. 

As regards the choice of the stimulant employed, during 
the acute stage there is probably nothing more useful than 
sound Scotch whisky. This may be started in doses of even 
such small amounts as one drachm every four hours, and should 
rarely be increased beyond half an ounce at similar intervals. 
If there is much diarrhoea, or any tendency to sickness, brandy 
is more useful and is likely to be better tolerated. In con- 
valescence many patients are much the better of a glass of 
port wine with their dinner and at night, and in private practice 
a good Burgundy may be employed at this time with great 
advantage. 

Modifications of diet to meet various conditions. In a case 
in which care has been taken with the dieting it is unusual for 
troublesome diarrhoea to occur. On the contrary, this symptom 
usually subsides when the patient is fed suitably. Occasionally 
severe diarrhoea may persist, or may indeed even supervene 
in a properly treated case. If the patient is having beef or 
chicken tea these should be at once stopped. If any substitute 
for these is desired, raw meat juice or one of the patent meat 
extracts may be given. The milk should be boiled and diluted 
with lime water instead of with water alone. If this is in- 



320 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

sufficient to check the condition the amount of milk should 
be considerably reduced, and it may be peptonized or pancreatized. 
If whisky is being given it should be withdrawn and brandy 
substituted. Again, in cases of meteorism much may be done 
by reducing the amount of milk and by peptonizing it if necessary. 
The desirability of avoiding aerated waters has been already 
alluded to. When constipation is troublesome the addition 
of beef-tea, if it is not already being used, will often have the 
required laxative effect. If the patient is already supplied 
with it the quantity given may be considerably increased, or 
it may be made stronger. A little fluid magnesia may also 
be added to the milk. If haemorrhage should occur an absolute 
starvation is indicated for the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours, 
the object being to entirely rest the intestine and to avoid en- 
couraging peristalsis. Neither milk nor water should be allowed 
even in the smallest quantities. The apparent cruelty of this pro- 
ceeding is much diminished by the fact that in such cases morphia 
or opium is usually given freely, also with the object of checking 
peristalsis. The patient, then, is too much under the influence 
of the opiate to notice the withdrawal of his food and water. 
After twenty-four or thirty-six hours, according to the strength of 
the patient and the occurrence, or not, of further haemorrhage, I 
usually order a half teaspoonf ul of bovinine in two or three drachms 
of iced water as the first food, and this may be repeated every 
two or four hours. Twelve or twenty-four hours later peptonized 
milk may be added, given in teaspoonful doses at first, and given 
every hour if the patient is awake. The amount of milk may be 
rapidly increased if the bleeding does not recur, the patient usually 
receiving one ounce every two hours within seventy-two hours of his 
haemorrhage, in addition to meat juice or chicken jelly. If this is 
well borne, double that amount may be given on the following day. 
It is almost unnecessary to add that if the patient has been 
previously on some alcoholic stimulant this must be with- 
held, unless the haemorrhage has been so profuse as to render 
him practically pulseless, in which case it will be necessary 
to administer brandy very cautiously in half teaspoonful doses 
at frequent intervals, taking the greatest care not to improve 
the pulse too much or too suddenly. 



DIET IN FEVERS 321 

If perforation has occurred it is obvious that recovery can 
hardly be considered as possible unless an operation is per- 
formed, so the question of diet is of little practical importance. 
It is advisable, however, to cease feeding by the mouth for the 
few hours which elapse before the perforation is surgically dealt 
with. On the other hand free stimulation may be necessary, 
and brandy must be given by the mouth or rectum as circum- 
stances dictate. After the operation the nourishment should 
be very cautiously administered, as it is exceedingly important 
to prevent the occurrence of vomiting. Small quantities, say 
half an ounce, of iced peptonized milk, may be given hourly, 
and raw meat juice or chicken jelly will be found useful. Rectal 
feeding may be preferred and in any case small saline injections 
of from 6-10 oz. are often of great service. If the case is re- 
garded as inoperable very similar treatment to that of haemorrhage 
is necessary, as it is only by checking peristalsis and keeping 
the intestine empty that that exceedingly rare result, the natural 
cure of a perforation, may be brought about. 

Of other conditions likely to complicate the course of 
an enteric fever persistent vomiting may require a modification 
of the diet. In this case peptonizing the milk may be first tried. 
If that fails iced albumin water may be given. Raw meat 
juice is sometimes taken well when milk is not tolerated by 
the stomach. As a last resort rectal feeding may be necessary. 
In convalescence such conditions as phlebitis, periostitis, or 
skin abscesses call rather for an increase than a diminution 
of the diet, always provided the pyrexia is not so decided as 
to interfere much with the gastric digestion. 

General considerations. The above lines of dieting have 
answered very well in my experience, and they are recommended 
especially to those who, having only a limited experience of 
enteric fever, are anxious to adopt a perfectly safe method. 
Like all other systems, this one demands considerable super- 
vision on the part of the medical man, and much care and atten- 
tion on the part of the nurse. It is well to remember that the 
more strictly a patient is dieted the more he is liable to suffer 
from any sudden irregularity in his diet. The physician should 
inspect the stools frequently, to see whether the milk has been 

21 



322 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

well digested and any appearance of curds, after the first few days 
of treatment, should arouse the suspicion that the milk may 
have been given improperly. The abdomen, also, should be 
inspected and palpated daily. Any increase of tumidity or 
tenseness suggests either imperfect digestion or some want 
of care in the feeding. The first can be usually remedied by 
modifying the diet. 

As has already been stated, other methods of dieting, chiefly 
on more liberal lines, have been strongly advocated, and the 
success which they have met with at the hands of competent 
physicians has been such as to demand our most earnest atten- 
tion. It has been thought well, therefore, to mention some 
of the more important. Their study is instructive as, when 
dealing with patients who cannot tolerate milk, we are often 
perplexed to know what may be safely substituted for it. 

Diet for children. It is obvious that except in the youngest 
children the diet, as recommended for adults, can in most cases 
be given. Any modification of it should be in the direction of 
caution rather than liberality. Children as a rule tolerate 
milk and thrive on milk much better than adults, and a milk 
diet in the acute stage, gradually increased to soft solids in 
convalescence and solids a little later than is recommended 
for adults, will in most instances be found quite satisfactory. 
Stimulants are better avoided, especially in the case of younger 
children. 

The diets suggested on p. 323 may of course be much modified. 
They are merely included to express graphically the progress 
of a case. The amounts of milk given must of course depend 
on the patient's inclination for food and his toleration of milk. 
Thus 4 oz. may be given in a prolonged case with much wasting 
provided it is well digested. If porridge is not liked, bread and 
milk may take its place, or the patient may prefer Benger's 
food, or a beaten-up egg in milk at the corresponding times 
of the day. The changes may be rung with these foods for 
patients whose appetites are capricious. A few methods for 
preparing such foods are appended. 

Oat flour porridge, or gruel. Soak the oat flour in a little 
cold water for at least two hours. Then strain through a fine 



DIET IN FEVERS 



323 



ence 
tem 



arly Conva 
days of nor 



~ -a 




8> 

T3 T3 

'P S 

w 

1 1 



I 

12 

:- - 

:* 



3 



i 



* .s 

Js "^ 

^ & 1 3 

3 



g X! ^ 

9 "2 S 

s . 



5 S 5 -^ 
C JS .M 
.g ,3 a C 

O B 



ri 
^ -2 

5| 

3 ^ 

$ 

|- 

3-3 

fc 8 



c s 

1 

s "8 

o g.* 
o x a 
^ .2 S 





f 



2 S, 



at flo 
ea, thin b 



OH il 



N ,2 

O a <fl 

05." 

jf 



o 






O, O 



, c 

"i 



fc -S -^ 

& i I 

* cfl 

S ^ 8 

08 tM 



aS 55 12 

O S 



S 



c8 

^ 



o S o o 
- _, 4S o ., 
5 ? bb 3 -i 





S ^ 
JS O 

o eo 



- ^3 



PH N 



c8 z5 



i 

5 



-a r 4s 

0) S i 



. 

^ CO CO CO 



J3 



- - 1 

si I 



^ 

.r 



SS 









^ { S 



g T3 T3 

{ *S -S -S J3 
133 3 



" N N N 

.. O O O 



c 

~ 



CO CO 



g 
* * * 1 1 S 1 

Ml 

: r | g r 

CO W CO 



: "o t- : u - 

?; ; s S 1 s 



S 5 eS "S ^ 1S8 

% 3 C J5 J5 '3 

M M 4> M 



*.'- 

r = '= T = 

- s - 
a = ce 

w . J g " w 

- -e ^. ^ a 

a & a 





eS c8 ~ ~ 

to oo ~ "M 



E E = 
ii d 

<N * 



E E 

z. z. 

00 O 



DC 



324 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

sieve. Bring some cold water to the boil and add a liberal 
allowance of salt, making the water more salt than a person 
in health would find agreeable. Stir in the strained oat flour 
and stir steadily till the mixture again boils. Then keep it 
at the boil for half an hour, stirring at intervals. A small 
teacupful of this porridge with milk added to fih 1 a breakfast 
cup is a reasonable allowance for an adult patient to start 
with. 

Plasmon. Put a dessertspoonful into a cup with a little 
lukewarm water and stir into a cream. To make a small teacup- 
ful put a little milk in a saucepan. Bring it to the boil. Stir 
in the plasmon. Boil again. Have the white of an egg ready 
switched. Stir it in and add sugar to taste. 

Bread and milk. Grate bread crumbs very finely. Bring 
milk to the boil. Stir in the crumbs slowly, letting them fall 
constantly from the hand. Let it boil twenty minutes. Add 
if desired some switched egg or the switched white of an egg. 
Add sugar to taste. 

Liberal feeding in enteric fever. There is no doubt that 
theoretically much is to be gained by giving a liberal and varied 
diet. When we consider the extreme wasting which often occurs, 
even when the patient is taking freely all the fluid nourishment 
which we are accustomed to consider desirable for him, the 
reflection is forced upon us that the heart and intestinal walls 
may be suffering almost equally with the muscles. The bowel 
wall of a patient who has succumbed to a prolonged fever is 
often found at the autopsy to be extremely thin. Is it possible 
that by restricting unduly the food supply of the patient we 
are weakening the resistance of his bowel wall to the ulcerative 
process ? I am convinced that the use of solid food early in 
convalescence does much to shorten the duration of the case. 
Does the more liberal supply of food at this period help to pro- 
mote the healing process in the ulcerated intestine as well as 
to repair the waste caused by the fever ? That it prevents 
to some extent such sequelae as periostitis, abscesses, and otitis 
media is certainly probable. If such additions are justifiable 
from the moment the patient's temperature touches the normal 
line, would they not be equally so at an earlier period, say at 



DIET IN FEVERS 325 

the commencement of the lysis when he is beginning to show 
signs of returning appetite ? 

The only argument against giving solid food throughout 
the fever, say the advocates of a mixed diet, is the inability of 
the patient to take it. Other objections are mainly theoretical, 
such as that it is liable to cause such accidents as perforation 
and haemorrhage, or that it increases the tendency to relapse. 
We have seen above that early solid feeding in convalescence 
has little or no influence on the frequency of relapses. There 
is therefore no reason to believe that relapses should be more 
frequent in cases which have been fed on a mixed diet during 
the acute stage. It is possible, however, that such a treatment 
might prolong the original fever, but this, according to the sup- 
porters of solid diet, is not the case. 

Theoretical objections to milk. On the other hand, although 
most physicians" will agree that milk is the most convenient 
food to use during the acute stage of enteric fever, it is not alto- 
gether an ideal diet. The patient who is fed exclusively upon 
it gets more fat than is necessary and probably too little protein. 
The carbo-hydrates are certainly insufficient from the theoretical 
point of view. It is said, and no doubt so far as laboratory 
experiments go the statement is correct, that to make good 
the waste caused by the increased metabolism in such a fever 
as enteric it is necessary for the patient to take 8 oz. of milk 
every two hours. Such an amount it is obviously impossible to 
give, and if, therefore, the waste is to be considered the milk 
must be supplemented by other articles of food. 

It has also been suggested that, as milk is extremely deficient 
in iron salts, the prolonged anaemia which often follows enteric 
fever may be in part due to the fact that a milk diet is used. 
Digestion, moreover, is rendered more easy by the refiV 
excited by the mastication of solid food in the mouth, and on 
the other hand suffers when the food given excites disgust, 
as the long-continued monotony of a milk diet is apt to do. 
Milk, again, becomes a semi-solid in the stomach and there- 
fore cannot properly be considered as a fluid food. The curds 
are not always easily broken up and digested in the small in- 
testine. We have seen that this difficulty can. as a rule, be 



326 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

obviated by proper care being taken in its administration, but 
at the same time we must admit that the undigested residuum 
of milk is often most irritating to the bowel. Again, it has 
been asserted that rnilk acts as an admirable culture medium 
for the typhoid and intestinal germs, and that its employ- 
ment should be limited on that account. This objection is 
probably slightly more valid than the identical one which has 
been raised with regard to the use of beef-tea, which can 
leave practically no residuum for the benefit of the intestinal 
bacteria. 

The acute stage : suggestions for dieting with solid food. 
No account of the dietetics of enteric fever can be considered 
adequate without some reference to the interesting dietary 
suggested by the Russian physician, Bushuyev. His pub- 
lished results did much to stimulate experiments in the direction 
of a more liberal diet, especially in America, and if few have 
followed his plan in its completeness many have modified it 
and have been satisfied with the results obtained. Bushuyev's 
treatment is to give solid food to all who can take it from the 
moment they come under observation. Meat, bread, and 
boiled eggs are all allowed. The number of patients treated 
was 398, and only four of them suffered from haemorrhage and 
one from perforation. It would appear, therefore, that the 
ulcerative complications of the fever were very much less fre- 
quent than is ordinarily the case, and even allowing that the 
type of the disease may have been less severe than usual, it is 
fair to conclude that solid feeding does not predispose to these 
dangerous conditions. No figures relating to the occurrence 
of relapses are given by Bushuyev, which is unfortunate, as 
it is particularly alleged against solid feeding that it renders 
relapses more common. The mortality of the cases was 8'2 
per cent. The Russian physician is convinced that, once the 
patient's interest can be stimulated in his diet, his general con- 
dition is rapidly improved. Even patients, extremely ill, with 
temperatures exceeding 102 F., sit up in bed and are able to 
feed themselves, only few requiring the help of the nurses. Every 
effort must be made to stimulate the appetite and to avoid 
disgusting the patient with his food. 



DIET IN FEVERS 327 

The following ia the dietary suggested by Bushuyev for the acute stage : 

7 a.m Tea with a roll. 

8 a.m Oatmeal, barley, or wheat liquid porridge with 

butter (about 13 fluid oz.). 

9 a.m One or two boiled eggs, hard or soft, as the patient 

prefers. 
10-11 a.m. ... A glass (about 7 oz.) of milk, a roll, half a cutlet 

and a piece of boiled meat. 
12-12.30 p.m. . . A plate (7 oz.) of chicken soup, or ordinary soup, 

and a cupful of jelly. 

3 p.m Tea with a roll. 

6 p.m A cup of chicken or beef-tea, semolina pudding 

or milk, a -bit of chicken. 

8 p.m Milk with a roll. 

During the night . Coffee or tea with milk two or four times, coffee 
with cognac. 

In addition to the above the patients receive from 1-3 oz. 
of wine in the morning and half an ounce of Stoke's mixture of 
egg and brandy every two hours. The diet altogether seems 
excessive, but it is interesting to know that it can be given with- 
out harming the patient. To most of us it would appear adequate 
to nourish a healthy man in full exercise. 

In England Barrs, whose results were published a year earlier 
than those of the Russian physician, while believing equally 
in the value of solid food, takes a less pronounced and more 
rational view of the question. He does not recommend that 
the patient's appetite should be forced. " To give a patient 
with dry and shrivelled tongue, teeth covered with sordes, semi- 
comatose from pyrexia, and utterly indifferent to all around 
him, and especially to food, meat, or any other solid would be 
to my mind as silly and as cruel as to withhold it from a patient 
who expresses himself as genuinely hungry and who looks so, 
because his temperature curve is not normal, or because his 
bowels are acting a little too frequently." The appetite of 
the patient, once the physician has satisfied himself that the 
hunger is really genuine, is to be regarded as the indication 
for solid food. Barrs considers, from a study of his cases, that 
there is no reason to believe that diarrhoea is rendered worse 
by a liberal diet, or that perforation occurs more frequently 
in liberally fed patients. Meteorism, again, is less likely, he 
thinks, to occur on a diet which contains a reasonable quantity 
of solids than on one exclusively fluid. Meat and bread are 



328 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

allowed throughout the acute stage. The meat is usually minced 
at first, as otherwise it is difficult to take, unless the patient is 
allowed to sit up, which it is certainly most dangerous, not- 
withstanding the views expressed by Bushuyev, to allow any 
enteric patient at the height of his fever to do. 

The acute stage : soft solids and mixed diet. Shattuck 
in the Massachusetts General Hospital feeds his enteric fever 
patients on the following lines. 

1. Milk, hot or cold, with or without salt, diluted with lime 
water, soda water, Apollinaris, or Vichy ; peptogenic and pep- 
tonized milk ; cream and water ; milk with white of egg, 
buttermilk, koumyss, matzoon, milk whey, milk with tea, coffee 
and cocoa. 

2. Soups : beef, veal, chicken, tomato, potato, oyster, mutton, 
pea, bean, squash ; carefully strained and thickened with rice 
(powdered), arrowroot, flour, milk or cream, egg, barley. 

3. Horlick's food, Mellin's food, malted milk, carnipeptone, 
bovinine, somatose. 

4. Beef juice. 

5. Gruels : strained corn meal, crackers, flour ; barley water, 
toast water, albumin water with lemon juice. 

6. Ice cream. 

7. Eggs, soft boiled or raw, egg-nog. 

8. Finely minced lean meat, scraped beef. The soft part 
of raw oysters. Soft crackers with milk or broth. Soft puddings 
without raisins. Soft toast without crust. Blancmange, wine 
jelly, apple sauce and macaroni. 

This diet may be accepted as that favoured by American 
physicians who believe in varied feeding. Manges, Fitz, and 
Kinnicut, from whose admirable paper on the " Principles 
of Feeding in Typhoid Fever " I have abstracted it, have 
all had success with a diet very much on the above lines. Vaquez 
in France has also had good results with a diet consisting of 
milk, soups thickened with oat or rice flour, meat jelly, the yolks 
of three eggs daily, and somatose during the period of advance, 
and during the lysis grated meat, mutton for preference, in- 
stead of the meat jelly. Marsden at the Manchester Fever Hos- 
pital allowed bread and milk, custard, and minced meat to 



DIET IN FEVERS 



329 



those patients who were hungry, and added fish in very many 
instances before the temperature reached the normal. His 
relapses numbered 13 per cent and had apparently no con- 
nexion with additions to the diet. The haemorrhage rate was 
low, only 3 per cent, and among the 200 cases there was no 
instance of perforation. 

Marsden's conclusion is that on such a diet there is more 
rapid recovery, less risk of surreptitious feeding with undesirable 
substances, and a lessened tendency to asthenic complications. 

My own experience of liberal feeding throughout the fever 
is a somewhat limited one, but I must confess that I saw no 
harm result from the use during the acute stage of milk puddings, 
bread and milk, and beef-tea thickened with well-boiled rice, 
the diet which was given by my predecessor at the Edinburgh 
City Hospital at the time I worked there as house physician. 
At present, however, as I have already stated in the earlier 
part of this article, I prefer to postpone semi-solids and solids 
to the period of early convalescence. The interesting figures, 
however, published by Kinnicutt go far to prove that it is quite 
safe to give a liberal dietary. He has collected records of 4,654 
cases treated with fluid and of 733 with liberal diet, and the 
results are as follows : 






Cases. 


Relapses 
per cent. 


Haemor- 
rhages 
per cent. 


Perfora- 
tions 
per cent. 


Mortality 
per cent. 


On liberal diet 


733 


11-38 


4-77 


1-36 


9-47 


On fluid diet .... 


4,654 


10-89 


8-83 


2-40 


10-55 



It is of course difficult to draw conclusions from statistics 
of this sort, but the greatest care has been taken by Kinnicutt 
to secure that the test should be a fair one. The most inter- 
esting feature is the larger number of ulcerative accidents in 
the second group. It may fairly be asked does a low diet by 
starving the bowel walls help to increase rather than limit the 
process of ulceration ? 

Liberal feeding in convalescence. As the diet which I per- 
sonally feel most justified in recommending, and which has 
been already described in detail, includes the use of solid foods 



330 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

early in convalescence, it will be unnecessary to add much on 
this subject here. It is, however, interesting to note that both 
Barrs and Marsden were led to use solids during the acute stage 
by the success which they had obtained by the employment of 
liberal diet in the period of early convalescence. Most physicians, 
with much experience of enteric fever, will agree that nothing 
reduces a prolonged swinging temperature in the convalescence 
of a patient more than the use of solid food, always provided 
the patient is really hungry. As an instance of what may be 
done in the direction, I may quote the daily menu of a patient 
of Barrs', who after eight weeks' fever was getting into a 
dangerously exhausted state, the temperature having assumed 
the remittent type, with evening rises to 100 F. and over, the 
morning readings being somewhat above the normal line. She 
had been very strictly dieted and was extremely hungry. She 
was placed on the following diet : 

First day. Morning temperature, 99 F. Breakfast : coffee, 
bread and butter, bacon and egg. Dinner : sweetbread, part 
of a chop, potato, stewed plums and sago pudding. Tea with 
bread and butter and sponge cake. Supper : porridge and 
milk. Evening temperature, 99' 8. 

Second day. Morning temperature, 98'8. Breakfast : 
coffee, toast, bacon, bread and butter. Dinner : lamb, potato, 
peas, custard pudding and stewed plums. Tea with bread 
and butter and tomatoes. Supper : porridge and biscuits. 
Evening temperature 100. 

Third day. Morning temperature 97' 8. Breakfast : coffee, 
toast, bacon, bread and butter. Dinner : cold lamb, potatoes, 
peas, rice pudding. Tea with bread and butter, a boiled egg, 
and tomatoes. Evening temperature 98 - 8. 

Thereafter the patient had the ordinary food of the family 
and the evening temperature was steadily normal after two 
days. 

Without quite admitting the desirability of commencing 
by allowing such a large supply of food to a patient who had 
been strictly dieted, I should never hesitate in a case, where 
the fever had been prolonged, to give solids such as fish in small 
quantities, and potatoes well mashed in gravy as soon as the 



DIET IN FEVERS 331 

morning temperature has touched the normal line, or even 
sooner ; and during the lysis, as recommended by Marsden, 
should the wasted and exhausted condition of the patient appear 
to call for it. The vast majority of patients, however, will do 
very well with a more gradual increase of diet at this period, 
especially if they have been carefully dieted throughout the 
fever. The general conclusion to be drawn from the study of 
these liberal dietaries is that they may be occasionally very 
useful but are not always necessary. The good rule is to treat 
the patient as an individual and not to be too much hampered 
by theories of dietetics. I may add here that, without being 
a keen supporter of intestinal antiseptics, such as salol, guaiacol, 
or naphthol, I think they may be especially useful in helping 
to limit any undue fermentation in patients who are being liberally 
fed. At a time when most of my 'cases were being treated with 
a liberal soft diet, those who had also intestinal antiseptics 
undoubtedly did better than those who had not. 

The empty bowel theory. Attention has recently been called 
by Ewart to the advantages of a diet which leaves little or no 
residuum. The object here is to give plenty of food to the 
patients, but to dispense with the faeces so far as possible. It is 
obvious that there are many advantages in such a method. 
There should be an absence of any irritating residue which may 
increase the process of ulceration, and Ewart throws out the 
hope that just as we have learned that phagedenic chancre and 
hospital gangrene are no longer held to be normal developments 
in pathology, so we may yet learn that severe typhoid ulceration 
is a preventable condition. That it may be so is indeed very 
probable but, so far as regards hospital patients, the mischief 
will usually have commenced before they come under observa- 
tion. Any diet, however, which claims to limit the severity of 
the process, demands careful consideration, and the dietary 
outlined by Ewart contains many most interesting and valuable 
suggestions. 

The staple food is whey given in quantities from 2J-4 pints 
in the twenty -four hours. This has, of course, been much used, 
especially in severe cases, by many practitioners, and is always 
worth trying when a patient cannot digest milk however care- 



332 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

fully the latter is given. Ewart adds 10-15 grains of common 
salt to each half pint, with a view of correcting the deficiency 
in mineral salts which the ordinary milk diet entails. He ad- 
vises that the deficiency in phosphates should be made up by 
giving periodical doses of one of the medicinal syrups. Sugar is 
also added to the whey, being useful as a food and having no 
residuum. The organic acids and essences contained in fruit and 
vegetables may be given in the form of watery extracts, carefully 
strained. Fruit jellies, especially apple jelly, are well taken by 
the patient, and vegetable soups should be given daily. The 
meat preparations and extracts are not recommended. To 
secure sufficient nitrogenous material white of egg is added to the 
whey, which is then peptonized. The yolk of one egg daily is 
allowed in divided portions. Clarified honey may also be used 
and is a valuable addition to the carbo-hydrate supply. Maltine 
is also useful in this connexion. As regards the fats, cream is 
the most useful and acceptable, either taken alone or added to 
the whey. One ounce is a sufficient daily allowance. 

It is to be understood, for the first few days that the patient 
is under observation, that whey alone should be given, salted 
but with no other addition. When any meteorism has subsided, 
sugar, albumin, and cream may be added to it successively, the 
state of the patient and the condition of the stool determining 
each addition. Thereafter the vegetable soups, the fruit juices 
and jellies, and the honey are brought into use. Such a diet is cer- 
tainly likely to leave little or no residuum. Ewart employs it 
in conjunction with an antiseptic treatment consisting chiefly 
of the use of paraffin and powdered charcoal. This it does not 
come into our province to discuss. 

Starvation treatment. The same idea which underlies the 
" empty bowel theory " is no doubt responsible for the attempts 
made to treat enteric fever with either no food by the mouth 
at all, or at the most with very small quantities. Thus Queirolo 
has recommended that feeding should be entirely rectal, a lemon- 
ade made up with a little hydrochloric acid being the only drink 
allowed. Provided that the bowel of a patient so treated was 
first emptied by a dose of calomel or other suitable purgative, 
such a method of dieting should secure complete rest for the 



DIET IN FEVERS 333 

affected parts and absolutely exclude the possibility of ferment- 
ing masses of partially digested material lying in the gut. The 
nutritive value, however, of rectal feeding in a prolonged disease 
is so limited that this method may fairly be regarded as a treat- 
ment by starvation. 

Similar in its object and effects is the method suggested by 
Williams, who, believing that the exhausting diarrhoea of the 
fever is due to improper feeding, endeavours to secure that the 
bowel shall, as far as possible, remain empty. Only water is 
allowed in severe cases, sometimes for days at a time, and he 
regards half a pint of milk in the twenty-four hours as a liberal 
diet, seldom apparently exceeding this amount until the tem- 
perature is normal. The method seems drastic, but I have 
reason to know that the cases do remarkably well. I have 
often marvelled at the amount of starvation which a typhoid 
case can safely tolerate after a haemorrhage, and it is only 
rational to suppose that the patients would support starva- 
tion even better before such a depressing complication had 
occurred. Under such a regime Williams probably more nearly 
attains the ideal of the " empty bowel " than any other observer. 
It seems almost incredible that patients so treated should occa- 
sionally gain in weight and that they do not in any case waste 
more than patients more liberally fed ; but it is, after all, obvious 
that, if food is not assimilated there is no benefit to be derived 
from it, and in many cases of enteric fever assimilation is un- 
doubtedly extremely poor. 

The theoretical objection to both these methods of treatment 
is that, if ulceration has once started, such a remarkably low 
diet would apparently give the intestinal lesions only a poor 
chance of repair ; on the other hand, it is possible that the absence 
of irritation would go far to counterbalance this defect, especially 
as the patients seem to stand their starvation so well. If plenty 
of water was supplied this would be more easily understood, but 
some of Williams' patients were limited, for a time at least, to 
one pint of water per diem, which seems a most inadequate 
amount. 

The above are instances of a treatment which has often been 
attempted, and which is known in France as " Traitement a 



334 

vide." While not prepared to recommend its adoption, I think 
that from it, as from the experiments in feeding with solids, 
there is much to be learned. It encourages us to starve, for two 
or three days if necessary, severe cases with marked gastric and 
intestinal disturbance, probably very much to their advantage. 
It is, however, unnecessarily severe for the average patient, even 
while we admit that in enteric fever there is no certainty as to 
what may happen from day to day. 

Value of large quantities of water in enteric fever. It has been 
seen above that a liberal supply of cold water to drink may be 
fairly considered as a necessity for the enteric patient, and that 
three or four pints should be the minimum allowance. The 
forced ingestion, however, of much larger quantities of water 
than this has been recommended as a systematic method of treat- 
ment, and therefore deserves separate consideration. About 14 
years ago Debove succeeded in forcing 10 to 12 pints of water 
daily on his patients and his results were extremely good. More 
recently Gushing and Clarke have given 4 oz. of water every 15 
minutes during the waking hours to their patients, and in this 
way amounts, varying from 8 to 14 pints were comparatively 
easily ingested. Besides this their patients had at least 3 pints 
additional fluid in the form of milk and albumin water in the 
course of the day. The effect of such a treatment is a very marked 
diuresis, and by this method it is hoped that the elimination 
of toxins is very much increased. While I have seldom, person- 
ally, succeeded in persuading patients to take more than 8 or 9 
pints of water in addition to their other fluids, I have, like Gush- 
ing and Clarke, noticed a very marked diminution and improve- 
ment in such symptoms as headache, restlessness, delirium and 
other toxic manifestations, and such results certainly point to a 
clearing out of the toxins from the blood. It was found by Gush- 
ing and Clarke that their cases, which were being treated system- 
atically on the usual hydro-therapeutic lines, required the cold 
bath less frequently, and when we remember that the chief merit 
of systematic cold bathing is the increased diuresis which it 
secures, such a result was only to be expected. They state that 
complications under this form of treatment, generally speaking, 
are rare, but that meteorism appeared to occur a little more 



DIET IN FEVERS 335 

frequently than usual. The latter has not been observed by 
myself, but I have not succeeded in giving quite so much water 
to my cases as have the American physicians. A lower mortality 
rate was observed in those patients whose daily elimination of 
urine exceeded 160 oz. The ingestion of this large amount of 
water has the effect of increasing considerably the excretion 
of chlorides which are usually, in enteric fever, retained. 
Thus assuming the average income of chlorides, when the diet 
is restricted to milk, to be 36 grains, the normal individual 
retains 15 grains, the ordinary typhoid patient 27 grains, and 
the typhoid patient who is receiving large quantities of water 
only 11 grains. The conclusion seems justified that the poly- 
uria is able to counteract the excessive chloride retention in 
fever. Thus both clinically and experimentally it would 
appear that this free supply of water to the patient is of 
real advantage. 

It would be interesting to know if there was any risk of pro- 
tective substances in the blood being eliminated together with the 
toxins under this method of treatment. Such an objection is 
probably only theoretical, for as we have seen, the improvement 
of the toxic symptoms is such as to make us doubt that the resist- 
ance of the patient to the toxins is in any way weakened. Todd, 
however, considers that free diuresis, which he admits to be 
desirable, soon exhausts the system of its salts, which are neces- 
sary to preserve the integrity of the blood plasma and for the 
function of the leucocytes. He considers that the exhaustion 
of the salts from the blood tends to cardiac arrest. He therefore 
advocates the use of saline beverages, 10 grains of sodium 
chloride with 5 grains of potassium bicarbonate being dissolved 
hi 8 oz. of water, the whole being flavoured with a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. Five pints of this mixture is given in the day. 
The main object of the treatment is to maintain the alkalinity of 
the blood. It is interesting to note that Sollmann and Hoff- 
mann, who investigated the cases treated by Gushing and Clarke, 
found that in these cases any addition to the chloride income 
was promptly balanced by an increased chloride output, so that, 
after all, the added saline is promptly excreted. But this, of 
course, in no way invalidates Todd's contention that it is useful 



336 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

while it is actually in the blood. Todd also holds that sodium 
chloride solution is better absorbed in the stomach than water, 
and that the dissipation of heat is very much assisted by the 
elimination of large quantities of water by the skin, lungs, and 
urine. 

I consider that the free administration of water is of very 
great importance in the treatment of any case of enteric fever, 
but I am accustomed to regard 6 pints as a satisfactory allow- 
ance, anything over that figure usually involving the employment 
of special nurses and considerable worry to the patient. Any 
patient, on the other hand, who is willing to drink more I would 
certainly encourage to do so, but as a rule the severe toxic cases 
which require fluid most are those to whom it is most difficult to 
administer it. 

General conclusions on diet in enteric fever. Enough has been 
said to show that the practitioner has a wide choice of dietaries 
for typhoid patients. Each system has something in its favour, 
and it is by the judicious application of the suggestions we gather 
from each to our individual cases that we are likely to obtain the 
most satisfactory results. Thus, while following the rule that 
safety usually lies in moderation, and that extremes both in the 
direction of starvation and of Liberal feeding may be with advan- 
tage avoided, we may not infrequently be confronted with cases 
in which the complete stoppage of all food substances on ftie one 
hand, or the early administration of solid food on the other, may 
do much to secure the successful recovery of the patient. My 
own feeling is that a fluid diet, chiefly consisting of milk, as indi- 
cated in the first part of this section, is the safest and, in the long 
run, the most advantageous in the acute stage of the fever, and 
that this diet should be rapidly increased in the early days of 
convalescence, due care being exercised in watching the effect 
of each addition. I can see no benefit whatever in starving 
patients with practically normal temperatures, clean tongues, and 
good appetites, and in any case we learn from the good work done 
by the modern disciples of the famous Graves, who " fed fevers," 
that food may be supplied with considerable liberality and with- 
out risk in the early convalescence of enteric fever. 



DIET IN FEVERS 337 

DIET IN DIPHTHERIA 

The extremely depressing character of this infection, and the 
great exhaustion which it entails, would appear to mark it out as 
a disease in which liberal feeding is especially indicated. On 
the other hand it is well to remember that the forcing of too much 
nourishment on the patient may easily induce vomiting, and in 
no disease is vomiting to be regarded as more dangerous, owing 
to the strain it is liable to put upon a heart which is too often 
much debilitated. In selecting, then, a diet for diphtheria it is 
as well, while fully recognizing the importance of maintaining 
the strength of the patient, to be very careful that the food allowed 
is light and easily digested. All patients, moreover, and children 
particularly, should be watched for any sign of difficulty in degluti- 
tion, a complication which may appear comparatively suddenly, 
and occasionally has been responsible for death by choking. 

Diet in the acute stage. As long as the temperature remains 
elevated, which as a rule is only for a few days, a fluid diet is 
perfectly sufficient, and this may be continued for some days 
after complete defervescence should the throat remain swollen 
or painful. The diphtheria patient, however, can usually swallow 
without muchVliscomf ort, and the difficulty of feeding in the acute 
stage is not nearly so great as is the case with a quinsy or as 
ordinary septic spotted throat. As in the other infectious dis- 
eases milk is by far the best and most convenient food. It must, 
of course, be given regularly and with due precaution, and it 
may be supplemented by the free use of ordinary beef or chicken 
tea. Should the pyrexia be prolonged, one or two beaten-up eggs 
may also be allowed in the twenty-four hours, as may calves' 
foot jelly and such foods as Benger's, plasmon, and other similar 
preparations. Remembering the importance of not overloading 
the stomach and causing an irritability which may be dangerous 
later on in the disease, it is usually better to wait till the tempera- 
ture has fallen before making these additions. In the very severe 
cases, whether the temperature is elevated, normal, or subnormal, 
the simpler the diet is kept the better, and on the slightest sign 
of gastric irritability the milk may be with advantage peptonized. 
Should the patient appear much poisoned and the character of the 



338 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

pulse suggest a failing heart, the question whether to wake him 
every two hours for nourishment during the night may have 
to be seriously considered. In any case it is wiser to give some- 
thing every four hours at least. Fortunately, in many cases of 
this sort the patient is drowsy, and is little disturbed by being 
frequently fed. Albuminuria at this stage need not, as a rule, 
modify the above diet. It frequently disappears early, and I 
cannot say that I have noticed that it is in any way affected by 
the food allowed. In diphtheria, as in the other toxic diseases, 
water and diluent drinks should be supplied liberally. 

In the comparatively rare cases in which the inflamed and 
swollen condition of the throat is so marked as to prevent a reason- 
able amount of nourishment being taken, nasal feeding must be 
resorted to. Some suggest rectal feeding in preference, alleging 
the risk of the nasal tube inoculating the pharynx and oesophagus 
with diphtheritic material from the upper passages. In these 
days of serum treatment we may confidently assume that no such 
spread of the local condition is in the least likely to occur, and the 
value of rectal, as against nasal, feeding is so extremely limited 
that the latter should always be preferred. Unless there is very 
much septic, as well as diphtheritic infection, such cases may be 
said almost never to occur. 

Diet in convalescence. So far as diphtheria is concerned 
the term convalescence must be held to imply the period after the 
throat is free from membrane, a period in which the patient runs 
many of the most serious risks of the disease. In the majority of 
patients, however, the food may be increased from the mo- 
ment the temperature touches normal, even if there is still some 
patching visible in the throat. Soft solids may first be given, 
milk puddings, baked custard pudding, oat flour porridge and 
farinaceous food generally. A little stewed fruit given with rice 
pudding encourages a child's appetite and may be safely allowed, 
as may fresh fruit such as oranges and bananas in moderation. 
Strong soups may now take the place of beef-tea, and eggs may 
be given with advantage either lightly boiled or served in a clear 
consomme^ Fish may be added in one or two days and the 
patient's meals may be arranged as in health, milk or beef-tea 
being occasionally supplied in the intervals. The dietary might 



DIET IN FEVERS 339 

run on the following lines. First breakfast, porridge and milk. 
Second breakfast, two hours later, tea or coffee, bread or toast 
and butter, a boiled egg. Some time during the morning a glass 
of milk. Dinner, a good soup, fish and potatoes, milk pudding 
or cornflour with stewed fruit. Tea with bread, butter and jam 
if desired a boiled or poached egg. Supper, a glass of milk, bread 
and milk, oat-flour porridge, or Benger's food, as preferred. 
During the night hot beef-tea once or twice as considered neces- 
sary. If this diet is well taken, chicken or rabbit or a cutlet can 
be given at dinner time. 

It is not, of course, to be expected that every patient will 
manage to take so liberal a diet, but as a general rule diphtheria 
patients do best if they are well fed. The average convalescent, 
who feels quite well but who is kept rigidly in bed for fear of the 
appearance of sequelae, can be trusted to assimilate the dietary 
indicated. Those who, though their acute symptoms have sub- 
sided, still look " poisoned " and who have markedly irregular 
pulses are best restricted to soft solids. I am not accustomed 
to make much modification of the diet even if albuminuria is 
well marked, unless the amount of urine is very much decreased. 

The significance of vomiting in convalescence. It is well to 
regard vomiting in diphtheria as of serious import until it has been 
proved to be the contrary. It may be merely the result of in- 
judicious feeding, of a bilious attack, or of some other trivial 
cause. It may also be, and too often is, an early symptom of 
fatal cardiac failure. Even if this is not the case, the strain of 
vomiting, be the cause ever so trivial, may be too much for the 
heart muscle, which seldom escapes some degree of deterioration. 
The rule, then, is first to treat the vomiting as a serious event, 
and secondly to speculate as to its cause. All food by the mouth 
must be stopped at once. After a few hours' interval, if the vomit- 
ing has not recurred, a cautious attempt may be made to give a 
little peptonized milk. If this is vomited it is best to resort to 
rectal feeding without further delay, as to persist in attempts to 
feed by the mouth will only make matters worse. Rectal feeding 
is at best unsatisfactory, but with care it may tide the patient 
over the dangerous period. The bowel must be first thoroughly 
emptied by a simple enema. The nutrient injection may, of course, 



340 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

vary in composition according to the views of the physician. I 
usually prescribe the yolk of an egg in 2 or 3 oz. of milk, the whole 
peptonized. To this -1 oz. of cream and a dessertspoonful of 
brandy are added. Occasionally instead of the egg a few drachms 
of some meat juice such as bovinine are given. Boyd has recently 
drawn attention to the value of dextrose in nutrient enemata. 
This supplies the deficiency in carbo-hydrates. His prescription 
for a good nutrient injection is, the y oiks of two eggs, 450 grains 
pure dextrose and 7 grains common salt in about 10 fluid ounces 
of pancreatized milk. Commercial dextrose is unfortunately 
too irritating to the bowel. 

The nutrient enema should not exceed 4 oz. for a child. Adults 
can retain much more, and Boyd considers there may be some 
advantage in giving a large quantity, as some of the material 
occasionally passes above the ileo-ccecal valve. The syringes 
usually employed are not suitable for the purpose. It is better 
to use a funnel with a soft rubber tube and pour the fluid in very 
slowly. The administration of sufficient fluid is of great import- 
ance, as thirst is a most distressing symptom in these cases. 
A saline injection of 6-8 oz. in a child, or of 10-20 oz. in an adult 
is usually well retained, if given rectally one or two hours before 
each nutrient enema. The enemata may be given every four 
hours, or less frequently if the patient's strength appears to be 
well maintained. At least once hi the twenty-four hours the 
lower bowel must be thoroughly cleansed by a large injection of 
hot saline, or of hot water with a very little soap. Occasional 
attempts at mouth feeding may be tried, iced brandy or iced 
champagne being often tolerated when nothing else will lie on the 
stomach. 

Feeding in cases of paralysis. When only the palate is affected 
the adult patient is usually able to swallow his food satisfactorily, 
without regurgitation through the nose, if he takes it sufficiently 
slowly. Children, even with slight degrees of palatal palsy, 
should never be allowed to feed themselves. They cannot, as a 
rule, be trusted to take sufficiently small quantities at a time, 
and should have their nourishment administered in teaspoonfuls 
by the nurse. Soft solids are often swallowed with less difficulty 
than fluids, and custard pudding and jellies are usually readily 



DIET IN FEVERS 341 

taken. In the more severe form of paralysis, affecting the phar- 
yngeal muscles, which appears later in convalescence, nasal 
feeding must always be used. Even if the patient does not abso- 
lutely choke in attempting to swallow, particles of food are 
liable to reach the lungs and set up a septic pneumonia. 

Feeding in tracheotomy and intubation. I must confess to 
preferring nasal feeding after both these operations. Children 
very often swallow perfectly after tracheotomy, but it is as well 
to run no risks. After intubation infants as a rule swallow well, 
but older children are often nervous, especially with fluids, and 
are liable to have fits of violent coughing. The Casselbeny 
position, with the child's head and shoulders lower than the 
rest of the body, undoubtedly makes swallowing much easier ; 
but children tolerate nasal feeding so well that there is little to 
be gained by using any other method. The food, of course, must 
be fluid and will consist chiefly of milk, custard and meat juices. 
After the canula or tube is removed the child may be fed in the 
normal manner. 

Alcoholic stimulants in diphtheria. In my opinion diphtheria, 
if of average severity, is depressing enough to make the moderate 
use of stimulants advisable. It is doubtless the case that many 
patients can survive even a sharp attack without the use of alco- 
hol, but it is also true that it is often impossible to predict with 
any certainty in which individuals a sudden heart failure is likely 
to occur. This being so, I cannot resist the feeling that, should 
such a tendency to syncope appear quite suddenly, those patients 
who have had comparatively recently even a small dose of alcohol 
will be less likely to succumb than those who have not had a 
similar advantage. The value of free stimulation in cases which 
have shown signs of a failing heart from the onset of the disease is 
unquestionable, and was often very well seen hi the days before 
serum treatment. Nowadays, perhaps, we are a little too apt 
to attribute every improvement to the use of antitoxin. Believ- 
ing, then, that alcohol may be of great value, it is my custom to 
prescribe it systematically to all cases which we would have 
unhesitatingly classed as classical diphtheria in the days before 
bacteriological examination was the rule, that is to say, to both 
severe and moderate cases of diphtheria. Cases, on the other 



342 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

hand, the diagnosis of which depends more directly on the result 
of the culture, do not receive alcoholic stimulants as a routine. 
Whisky is probably the most satisfactory form in which to give 
alcohol, and very small doses are given, unless the heart shows 
signs of failing, the routine dose being often as small as 30 
minims every 4 hours for a child of 4 or 5 years of age, and a 
drachm for older children or adults. This is usually continued 
for the first 10 days and, if the pulse is not quite satisfactory 
by that time, for a week or so longer. If there is any tendency 
to sickness brandy is preferable, and if signs of definite heart 
failure with vomiting appear, there is nothing better than cham- 
pagne. During the convalescence of adults port or a good Bur- 
gundy in suitable quantities is occasionally very useful. 



DIET IN SCARLATINA 

In our treatment of any of the acute fevers it is necessary to 
keep in view the conditions which may complicate its course and 
convalescence. Were it not for this there would be but little 
to say respecting the diet of scarlatina, and, even as it is, many 
take the view that this fever may be dieted on the same lines as 
any other acute infection. For many years physicians in planning 
a diet for scarlatina patients have been influenced by the com- 
parative frequency with which acute nephritis and albuminuria are 
liable to occur in its convalescent stage, and many of the dietaries 
suggested have been therefore devised to act as a prophylactic 
measure against this particular complication. As in the case of 
the other fevers, I propose to state briefly the method of dieting 
which I am personally hi the habit of employing. Thereafter 
diets which are more liberal or more restricted may with advantage 
be discussed. 

Diet in the acute stage. This stage is in the majority of cases 
brief, seldom lasting more than a week in the simple forms of the 
disease. Any elaborate or complicated diet would appear, 
therefore, to be out of place, as the patient may be expected to 
maintain his strength quite satisfactorily on a fluid regime. 
During the first twenty-four hours of the fever vomiting is so 



DIET IN FEVERS 343 

frequent a symptom that the patient may well be left alone. Later, 
after the appearance of the rash, milk is, as a rule, quite sufficient . 
The milk should be given with the same precautions as were 
indicated in the section on enteric fever. As the temperature 
falls the amount given may be increased gradually if the patient 
takes it well and is at all hungry. I am not accustomed to give 
meat broths at this stage. If given at all they should be weak. 
Water should be supplied freely to the patient, and there is no 
objection as a rule to alkaline aerated waters should he prefer 
them. Fruit juices to flavour the drinks given are often very 
refreshing and their use may be encouraged. Weak tea may 
also be allowed in moderation. 

In the more prolonged forms of the fever, in septic scarlatina 
(scarlatina anginosa) for example, it may be necessary to allow 
somewhat more than a purely milk diet. Arrowroot and other 
starchy foods, thin oatmeal gruel, Benger's food and other similar 
preparations may all be given, as may well-stewed fruit if it can 
be swallowed. The difficulty indeed often is, in the septic form 
of the fever, for a patient with an acutely inflamed and ulcerated 
throat to swallow anything but fluids. Occasionally fluids them- 
selves cannot be swallowed in sufficient quantity to adequately 
nourish the patient. In such cases nasal feeding must be resorted 
to, and its systematic use often has a very beneficial effect on the 
condition of the mouth and fauces which, being thoroughly 
rested and also relieved from the fermentative action of food 
substances clinging to them, sometimes clean up with remarkable 
rapidity. Broadly speaking, I consider the use of meat extracts 
and beaten-up eggs undesirable in the acute stage of scarlatina, 
but there is no need to hesitate to prescribe either should the 
patient not appear to be adequately supported by the above diet. 
Stimulants, again, are usually undesirable, but in this type of the 
fever often necessary. 

The malignant or toxic type of scarlatina offers few oppor- 
tunities for dietetic treatment. Its course to a fatal termina- 
tion is usually rapid, and vomiting is so often persistent that we 
are frequently reduced to rectal feeding. As, however, diarrhoea 
is also present in many cases, even this may be found to be im- 
possible. Everything should be done to force fluids on the 



344 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

patient and to favour the elimination of the toxins. If water is 
vomited saline injections by the rectum, under the skin, or into 
a vein may occasionally save an apparently hopeless case. Stimu- 
lation, preferably with brandy, or perhaps champagae, should 
be very freely resorted to. 

Diet in convalescence. When the temperature of a simple 
case has reached normal, the milk diet may be supplemented 
by farinaceous foods. In the morning thin oatflour porridge 
with plenty of milk. A little later a second breakfast of tea 
and bread and butter. At dinner time, rice and other milk 
puddings, stewed fruit with plenty of milk, and, if enjoyed, 
milk soups flavoured with vegetable juices. In the afternoon, 
tea with plenty of milk, bread and butter and jam. At supper 
time bread and milk, or porridge with milk, and a slice of bread 
if desired. A good allowance of milk, a pint at least, and prefer- 
ably more, should be taken in the twenty-four hours. Water 
should also be supplied freely. If febrile complications, such 
as arthritis, should occur, this diet may still be given if the 
patient has sufficient appetite. 

There is no necessity in my opinion to increase this dietary 
till the period at which nephritis occurs most frequently is safely 
passed. Exceptions can be made in the case of adults, fish 
being allowed from the commencement of the third week. Other- 
wise it will be withheld till the middle of the fourth, when it 
may be allowed, as may white meat, chicken or rabbit, meat 
soups and, a little later, meat and eggs. In young children, 
eight years and under, it will seldom be necessary to give more 
than white fish. Potatoes may be given at any time in the 
stage of convalescence, as may fresh fruit. I am far from saying 
that a much more liberal diet might not be given with perfect 
safety, as indeed the practice of many authorities proves, but 
the above appears to me to be quite sufficient and is not likely 
to overtax the kidneys. 

Liberal diet in scarlatina. Those, on the other hand, who 
believe that the kidneys may safely be disregarded and that 
the occurrence of nephritis is in no way influenced by early 
feeding, are more liberal in their supply of food to the patient. 
Foord Caiger, holding that there is no evidence that nephritis 



DIET IN FEVERS 345 

has ever been induced by the administration of a diet containing 
a moderate amount of nitrogenous food, gives a quite liberal 
diet, even in the acute stage. Soup, beef-tea, and beaten-up 
eggs are all permitted in the febrile period. Solids are given 
as soon as the temperature is normal, and the condition of the 
patient's throat permits. Bread and milk, custard, milk pud- 
dings, lightly-boiled eggs, and thin bread and butter with the 
crust removed are the first additions to the diet. In two or 
three days he extends this diet so as to include fish, poultry, 
and meat. A similar dietary is recommended by Goodall, and 
it appears that meat is usually given comparatively early in 
the great fever hospitals of the Metropolitan Asylums Board. 
Green vegetables are recommended in the early days of con- 
valescence. The value of fruit is also insisted on. 

Restricted diets. Jaccoud, Moizard, and many of the French 
writers attach much importance to a purely milk diet (regime 
lacte absolu). This should be invariably used in the febrile 
stage, and should be continued with only slight addition, such 
as chocolate and coffee, for a full week after the temperature 
is normal. Thereafter eggs, meat and vegetables are allowed. 
Fish, which in this country we usually prescribe in preference 
to meat, is excluded altogether, being placed in the same cate- 
gory as pork. Even after the diet has been thus extended the 
patient is expected to drink from 2-4 pints of milk daily. A 
weak point in this diet is the fact that the nitrogenous addi- 
tions are first made in the third week, at the very time, in other 
words, that we are beginning to expect nephritis. Jaccoud 
claims, however, that this condition never follows in cases so 
dieted. This is not in accordance with my own experience, 
as I have seen nephritis supervene in cases in which nothing 
but milk has been given. The method of Forchheimer is more 
logical. He allows fairly liberal feeding during the febrile 
stage when most of us are content with a fluid diet. From the 
beginning, however, of the second week until the end of the 
fourth, he restricts the diet to milk alone. He insist* on the 
importance of supplying much fluid to assist the elimination 
of waste products, and considers that milk. " when subjected 
to the action of bacteria, will produce fewer harmful end pro- 



346 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

ducts of digestion than any other article of food." At the end 
of the fourth week carbo-hydrates are first tried. If no harm 
results meat is added, and normal diet is resumed. Even stricter 
dietaries than the above have been suggested, such as milk and 
milk alone for six weeks, or milk with carbo-hydrates, such as 
rice and arrowroot. 

Influence of diet in producing nephritis. There is certainly 
little evidence that the occurrence of nephritis is in any way 
influenced by the use or by the restriction of nitrogenous sub- 
stances. On the other hand, it would appear only reasonable 
in a disease in which nephritis is liable to occur to put as little 
tax as possible on the excretory powers of the kidney. The 
complication may occur at any time during the fever and con- 
valescence, but the usual period at which it appears is from 
the sixteenth to the twenty-sixth days. For instance, in a 
series of 134 consecutive cases of nephritis, 88 occurred within 
the 10 days named ; and of these 68 had their first symptoms 
between the twentieth and twenty-fourth days inclusive. 
Whether we regard the cause of the inflammatory process as 
due to the direct invasion of the kidney by the streptococcus, 
and that micro-organism has undoubtedly been demonstrated in 
the organ, or whether we prefer to believe that for some reason 
or other there is a specially plentiful discharge of irritating 
toxins about this particular period, the excretion of which proves 
too much for the kidney, any efforts to prevent the renal tissue 
becoming depressed either by chill or by hard work, seem per- 
fectly logical. We do not believe nowadays that chill alone 
will cause nephritis, but it may certainly facilitate its occurrence 
by lowering the resistance of the kidney. May not the work 
entailed by the excretion of large quantities of nitrogenous 
food have a similar effect ? Recently it has been suggested 
by those who hold the streptococcus responsible for the inflam- 
mation that prophylaxis is best directed to the antiseptic treat- 
ment of the throat. This is no doubt excellent, but, to my 
mind, the difficulty of accepting this theory of causation is 
the extraordinary regularity with which nephritis occurs at a 
definite period of the fever, the end of the third week. The 
streptococcus has been in the blood from the first. Why has 



DIET IN FEVERS 347 

it not attacked the kidney earlier ? It has shown no such 
delay in causing arthritis, usually a much earlier complication. 
Inflammations of the middle ear occur throughout the fever, 
early and late, but do not group themselves into a particular 
period of about 10 days. The connexion of the throat and 
ear, moreover, is much more apparent than that of the throat 
and kidney. I am therefore inclined to regard nephritis as due 
to an excretory difficulty and, as such, likely to be influenced 
by the diet employed. Still, it is only fair to admit that, as 
far as statistics go, there is no proof that diet exerts such an 
influence in prophylaxis, for whereas Foord Caiger reports an 
incidence of 11'9 per cent of nephritis and late albuminuria 
in 10,983 consecutive cases of scarlatina, dieted presumably 
on the liberal lines indicated above, of 4,436 patients of my 
own, who had a more restricted dietary, 11 '02 per cent deve- 
loped nephritis or albuminuria, a difference which can be totally 
disregarded. 

If, however, the more moderate diet is considered both 
sufficiently adequate and theoretically safer, it is always as 
well to consider the age of the patient. Most cases of nephritis 
occur between the ages of 3 and 8 years, and in older children 
and young adults more latitude may be allowed in increasing 
the amount and character of the food allowed. 

Diet in complications. On this question there is little to 
be said. With the exception of nephritis, the complications 
which are liable to occur in the convalescence of the fever demand, 
as a rule, no modification in the diet. Should considerable 
pyrexia accompany any of them, it is only reasonable to return 
to fluid food, or even to restrict the patient entirely to milk. 
If the appetite remains good, a slight degree of pyrexia may 
be disregarded and the ordinary diet of convalescence continued. 
In nephritis, however the patient has been fed previously, a 
milk diet should at first be insisted on. For a day or two, even, 
a little arrowroot and water with no milk may be given, or it 
may be advantageous to limit the patient to whey. As long 
as the urine is restricted in amount, or blood remains in it, it 
is wiser not to go beyond the milk diet. Fluids must be liberally 
supplied in order to assist the elimination of waste material 



348 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

by the skin and bowels. A useful drink to give is the so-called 
"Imperial drink," which is made by dissolving a drachm of 
acid tartrate of potash in a pint of boiling water, and flavouring 
with lemon juice and sugar. The mixture is allowed to cool 
before use. Barley water may also be used. Recently the 
question of limiting the amount of chlorides given to the patient 
has been much considered, and if the food is increased as the 
complication continues, it is probably wiser to limit the amount 
of salt taken. I am not, however, in the habit of adding much 
to the milk diet if the amount of albumin remains considerable, 
unless the condition is prolonged beyond three weeks. If at 
that time the albuminuria still persists, the best way to prevent 
it becoming chronic is undoubtedly to feed. Assuming that 
the patient has hitherto had nothing more than milk and milk 
puddings, the addition of one or two boiled eggs to the day's 
diet is my first step. Caiger points out that in this way the 
loss of albumin may be to some extent replaced, and since first 
trying his method some years ago I have always used it, being 
entirely satisfied with the great improvement hi the colour 
and strength of the patients and the rapid disappearance of the 
albuminuria. It is just at this time, also, that we are accus- 
tomed to prescribe iron, and it is probable that the comparative 
richness in iron possessed by eggs may have something to do 
with the good results obtained. 

The question of providing a diet in nephritis from which 
chlorides are, so far as possible, excluded may be worth con- 
sidering. Del6arde recommends such a regime for scarlatinal 
nephritis and considers that milk, containing as it does 15 grains 
of salt, or more, to the pint, is by no means an ideal diet for 
this complication. He suggests as a prophylactic against 
nephritis a dietary containing eggs, dried or fresh vegetables, 
and even a little meat. Fish, fats, jam, and bread made with- 
out salt are also allowed. As the diuretic effect of milk may be 
missed, other diluent drinks must be given freely. When the 
nephritis has occurred a very similar dietary may be employed, 
one of Delearde's patients receiving two eggs, puree of rice 
with sugar, and potatoes. A diet so elaborate as to require 
the bread being especially made is too troublesome to give 



DIET IN FEVERS 349 

when so comparatively few cases develop nephritis. In the 

presence of the complication, however, especially if there is 
much oedema, the system deserves a trial. 



DIET IN MEASLES 

Diet in the acute stage. The usual rules for feeding in fever 
may be observed as long as the temperature remains elevated. 
Milk in regular quantities at regular intervals is usually quite 
sufficient. If looseness of the bowels is present, it may be modi- 
fied by the addition of suitable quantities of lime-water. The 
short duration of the febrile period, lasting as it does seldom 
more than a week, renders it quite unnecessary to attempt to 
feed up the patient, who, as a rule, has little or no inclination 
for food. In very feeble or badly nourished children, or in 
those who may have contracted measles after some exhausting 
disease it may, of course, be necessary to be more liberal. In 
such cases the suggestions for dieting in the acute stage of enteric 
fever may be found useful. Water must be supplied liberally 
to all patients, and there is no objection to orange or lemon juice 
being used freely to flavour it. 

Diet in convalescence. When the temperature has touched 
normal, eggs, farinaceous food, milk puddings and similar pre- 
parations may be given, and one or two days later the diet 
may be increased by the addition of white fish, potatoes, and 
stewed fruit in moderation. There need be little or no limita- 
tion put upon the dietary of healthy adults in this stage. In 
their case digestive complications are uncommon. With chil- 
dren, on the other hand, and particularly young children, it 
is well to exercise some caution in making additions to the diet. 
Diarrhoea may occur at any period of measles, and may be 
sometimes very intractable in convalescence. How far the 
enteritis of a dysenteric type, which is not infrequently seen 
a week or ten days after the eruption, is due to the measles 
poison itself, or how far to a superadded infection affecting a 
weakened mucous membrane need not be discussed. But as 
long as we recognize that diarrhoea of this type is often a real 



350 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

danger in convalescence, it is obviously foolish to give anything 
to the patient which is likely to encourage looseness of the bowels 
or to be badly digested. I have seen an ugly outbreak of what 
might fairly be described as dysentery occur in a group of chil- 
dren who were allowed a thick vegetable soup, the other children 
in the same ward, who had been more rigidly dieted, escaping. 
Undigested vegetable matter was found mixed with the blood 
and mucus in the stools. A diarrhoea of this sort once set up 
is exceedingly difficult to keep in check, and in weakly children 
may be fatal. Strong meat or vegetable soups, therefore, should 
not be allowed, and vegetables and fresh fruit, except oranges, 
are usually undesirable. Especially harmful may be the grapes 
which parents often seem so desirous of giving to their children. 
On the other hand, weak chicken-broth, with a little rice added, 
may be allowed, and this with white fish, mashed potato, milk 
puddings, jellies and bread and butter will be amply sufficient 
for a fortnight after the disappearance of the eruption, when 
normal diet may be resumed. 

As regards the complications of measles there is little to be 
said. It is often not easy to maintain adequately the strength 
in broncho-pneumonia. The dyspnoea and the tendency to 
cough make mastication and swallowing a matter of consider- 
able difficulty, and it requires careful attention on the part 
of the nurse to see that the child receives enough nourishment. 
The marked wasting which often accompanies this condition, 
and the tendency of the lungs to become tubercular, renders 
liberal feeding almost a necessity. In addition to milk, or 
whey, albumin water, beaten-up eggs, raw meat juice, and such 
foods as plasmon, sanatogen, etc., should be given. I have 
found the open air treatment of broncho-pneumonia of the 
greatest service in increasing the desire for food on the part 
of the patient. Only too often the appetite is entirely lost, 
and everything should be done to encourage it. Half the success 
of open air treatment depends on this increased willingness 
to take nourishment. 

Of the other complications enteritis alone requires mention. 
This also may last a considerable time and cause much wasting. 
I usually restrict these patients to milk and lime-water, with 



DIET IN FEVERS 351 

occasionally a little raw meat juice or bovinine. Albumin water 
may also be given. 

Alcoholic stimulants in measles. These are seldom required 
in the acute stage, and are only necessary in the prolonged 
complications. Cases of broncho-pneumonia are often bene- 
fited by free stimulation, but there is no need to prescribe 
alcohol as a routine. In enteritis, again, it may be necessary 
to stimulate, and brandy should be given for choice. Young 
children take white wine whey very well, and I have found it 
useful in both the complications mentioned. 



WHOOPING COUGH 

Diet in the catarrhal stage. As the appearance of the whoop 
is usually the first certain sign of the disease, the question of 
diet in this prodromal period needs little or no discussion. It 
is only seldom that patients in this stage come under our observa- 
tion. If there is any fever a fluid diet is indicated, and this 
should be of as bland and unstimulating a character as possible. 
Milk, supplemented occasionally by meat broths, is all that 
is required. 

Diet in the paroxysmal stage. It is when this period of the 
disease commences that we have seriously to consider the best 
means of feeding the patient. We have often two difficulties 
to contend with. Firstly, a paroxysm, coming on shortly after 
food has been given, is very liable to empty the stomach hi the 
act of vomiting, which so frequently follows the whoop. Secondly, 
some children learn by bitter experience that the giving of 
food excites the cough, and as a result firmly resist any attempt 
made to feed them. To force food upon such patients usually 
results in their acquiring an unpleasant habit of deliberately 
rejecting from the stomach whatever is given. 

It is not only, however, the risk of the food being vomited 
or refused which has to be considered. We must also recollect 
that gastric irritation, whether from overloading the stomach or 
from unsuitable food, undoubtedly excites the cough and, there- 
fore, whatever is allowed must be given only in small quantities, 



352 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

and must be also very digestible. The stage of the paroxysm 
is, moreover, often so prolonged and so apt to exhaust the 
patient, that it is highly desirable to supply a liberal amount 
of nourishment, in order as far as possible to prevent the wasting, 
which is frequently a striking feature. In hospital practice, 
particularly, liberal feeding may be of paramount importance 
from the very first, as the majority of patients have suffered 
from much vomiting and from improper dieting before admis- 
sion. The difficulty of giving them sufficient food is made no 
easier by the fact that their digestion has often been temporarily 
ruined before they come under observation. 

There is, of course, a clear distinction to be drawn between 
children of different ages. Children of over five years of age 
are, as a rule, not difficult to feed. They are able to run about 
and often enjoy a healthy appetite. Unless they have been 
debilitated by a complication or by previous illness, they are 
perfectly capable of assimilating an ordinary light diet. I find 
in hospital practice that the admirable rule laid down for feeding 
in whooping cough, namely, to feed immediately after a paroxysm 
so as to allow time for digestion before the next spasm, is impos- 
sible to carry out for all cases, unless a very large nursing staff 
is employed. When a fairly liberal diet, including a consider- 
able proportion of cooked food, is given, such a method is impos- 
sible for a large number of patients. Even if an otherwise 
healthy whooping cough patient vomits the greater part of his 
dinner at once, he is usually perfectly ready to take it over 
again and retain it, if he is given the chance, as he should be. 
All children, then, who are able to be out of bed and who are 
over two years of age are allowed ordinary meals as in health, 
suitable to their age, and usually consisting of white fish, pota- 
toes, occasionally minced meat, eggs, milk puddings, oatflour- 
porridge, and bread and butter. As long as the patient does 
not appear to be losing weight, and if the paroxysms are not 
unduly frequent or severe, the fact that the food is to some 
extent vomited, is a matter of very small importance. In private 
practice, where it may be possible for a nurse to devote her 
whole time to one patient, even in these sthenic cases the meals 
may be so arranged as to be given just after a whoop, as the 



DIET IN FEVERS 353 

interval between the paroxysms is often fairly definite. In 
this way some loss by vomiting may be avoided. 

If, however, the case is more severe, the greatest care must 
be taken. It may be found, for instance, that the paroxysms 
are exceptionally frequent, and that a large proportion of the 
food ingested is vomited. Or the patient may appear to be 
losing weight and, perhaps, is not properly assimilating the 
food which he retains. In such cases, and in the prolonged 
broncho-pneumonias which are so frequently the cause of death 
in this disease, it is wiser to restrict the food to fluids and to 
give small quantities at frequent intervals, if possible, just 
after the whoop. A certain amount of this is usually digested, 
even if the vomiting with the next paroxysm is severe. I usually 
feed my patients chiefly on milk, often given with lime-water 
to correct any gastric acidity, and on small amounts of meat 
juices or extracts. Malt foods appear to be sometimes of advan- 
tage, and most of the children take Benger's food and other 
similar preparations well. The milk is always peptonized in 
the worst cases, and occasionally albumin water is added. In 
the less severe cases, milk puddings and starchy foods may be 
given, but as Eustace Smith points out, anything which is liable 
to cause fermentation or acidity is better avoided. Under 
this heading he classes farinaceous puddings, jam and fruit, 
all of which are harmless enough in older children, and mild 
cases, but are certainly better dispensed with in the type of 
case we are at present discussing. It must be remembered 
that gastric disturbance may do much to curtail the short 
snatches of sleep which such patients enjoy between the spasms, 
and so increases the nervous irritation which is so marked a 
feature in a bad case of whooping cough. 

Individual cases may present very marked differences. 
Trousseau held that solid food was better digested than liquid, 
and occasionally even in severe cases this dictum may be remem- 
bered with advantage. I seldom, however, allow solids in a 
really bad case, whether pyrexia is present or not. In cases 
of moderate severity, if solid food seems to make the patient 
worse, soft solids may be used, such as porridge, rusks or sponge 
biscuits soaked in milk, bread and milk, and so on. Dry, solid 

23 



354 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

food which may leave irritating crumbs in the fauces is very 
liable to excite the cough. Again, in the worst cases, if milk is 
not tolerated, it is always worth while to make a trial of whey. 
This is often most useful in infants. 

If the patient refuses food altogether, everything should be 
done to persuade him to eat, and I often am willing to tempt 
such a child by allowing him anything in the way of food that 
he fancies, even if the article demanded does not appear very 
suitable. Rectal feeding is so unsatisfactory that we should 
try everything possible before resorting to it. Occasionally, 
however, it is our only resource. As regards the dieting in 
broncho-pneumonia, which should, generally speaking, be fluid, 
I have noticed, as after measles, that treating the patients in 
the open air makes them much easier to feed, a remark which, 
after all, applies to all cases of whooping cough. The disease 
is, in my opinion, far too frequently nursed hi close rooms and 
artificial atmospheres, and under such conditions the difficulty 
in inducing the patient to take sufficient nourishment, always 
great, will be appreciably increased. 

INFLUENZA 

The manifestations of influenza are so exceedingly variable 
that it is difficult to lay down hard and fast rules for the dieting 
of the disease. It is, however, so remarkably depressing in its- 
effects that, generally speaking, a generous dietary and a certain 
amount of stimulation would appear to be indicated. This 
may be started from the first in cases which have little or no 
pyrexia. In those, however, in which the fever is consider- 
able, the usual rules for feeding in the acute stage of fevers 
must be observed, the milk diet being freely supplemented 
by meat extracts, beef -tea, and suitable protein preparations. 
In the gastro-intestinal form of the illness it may be necessary 
to add lime-water to the milk or to peptonize it, and to limit 
the meat preparations to those which are not liable to increase 
the diarrhoea, such as raw meat juice, bovinine, or Brand's 
essences. Cases in which the diarrhoea is almost choleraic will 
require free stimulation with brandy. 



DIET IN FEVERS 355 

Diet in convalescence. It is not every patient whose appetite 
requires to be tempted in convalescence after influenza. Many, 
indeed, have an appetite which is quite inordinate and are 
ready to eat much more than they would in health. There is 
no reason to limit the diet in such cases. A liberal dietary in 
normal lines, with a glass of milk or a cup of beef-tea given 
between meals, may be safely allowed. But for the average 
patient, especially for those who have suffered from that pro- 
longed form of the disease which is not infrequently mistaken 
for enteric fever, it may be necessary to increase the dietary 
gradually, encouraging the appetite by the variety of the food 
prescribed, and sustaining the strength by frequent small meals. 
Oysters, sweetbread, and white fish, such as whiting, are all 
suitable in the early days of convalescence. Later chicken, 
game, or a well-cooked cutlet may be permitted. Strong soups, 
plenty of fresh milk, eggs lightly boiled, poached, or beaten up 
with milk and brandy may be given between the principal meals. 

Alcoholic stimulants in influenza. As is the case in diph- 
theria, it is probably safer to over-stimulate patients suffering 
from influenza than to allow too little alcohol. While quite 
admitting that there may be some risk of a patient acquiring 
an alcoholic habit in the period of prolonged depression which 
so often follows the disease, I am convinced that this depres- 
sion may be often warded off by the judicious administration 
of alcohol in the acute stage and in the early days of convales- 
cence. A little alcohol, moreover, given in convalescence aids 
the digestion and stimulates the desire for food, and if its amount 
is carefully regulated and its use strictly limited to meal times, 
I have seen no harm whatever result from its employment. 
In the febrile stage good whisky or brandy are preferable ; 
later, it is wiser to prescribe wine with lunch and dinner. Port 
or Burgundy will probably be found most suitable if they are 
well taken. In very depressed cases a little champagne some- 
times works wonders. Many physicians must have noticed 
the extraordinary toleration for alcohol which some patients 
appear to have after influenza, and if its administration is not 
too long postponed, there will be little difficulty in persuading 
the convalescent to dispense with it afterwards. 



356 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

Very little need be said regarding the dieting of other infec- 
tious diseases. All may be safely treated more or less on the 
lines indicated in the preceding pages. The continued fevers, 
such as typhus and relapsing fever, should be handled very 
much as enteric fever. At the slightest sign of diarrhoea in 
the former, it is well to stop beef-tea or other meat broths at 
once, and to add lime-water to the milk, substituting brandy 
for whisky if the patient has been previously stimulated. 
Diarrhoea, when it does occur in typhus, is apt to be most intract- 
able, and sometimes appears to determine a fatal result. Small- 
pox is one of the diseases which should be liberally fed, especi- 
ally in the secondary fever, which is usually most exhausting. 
There is no reason to keep solids from patients in this stage, if 
the condition of the mouth permits mastication and if the diges- 
tion remains fairly good. A good time to take the opportunity 
of feeding liberally in this disease is the comparatively apy- 
rexial interval between the primary and secondary fevers. This 
gives the patient a good start for the suppurating stage, and 
is likely to be of much benefit to him if later on there is a real 
difficulty in providing sufficient nourishment. Chickenpox and 
German measles are such mild infections and have, as a rule, 
such a short febrile period that normal diet need seldom be 
stopped for more than two or three days. In mumps the only 
difficulty is a mechanical one, the pain which is caused by attempt- 
ing to open the jaws. The diet should be fluid and, if neces- 
sary, may be sucked through a tube. In erysipelas, unless the 
pyrexia is very considerable, patients usually take soft solids 
well in the febrile stage, and if suppuration occurs, it is as well 
to be liberal in the dietary. Cerebro-spinal meningitis may 
offer difficulties partly owing to the frequent vomiting, partly 
mechanical from the extreme retraction of the head. The 
vomiting seems to be of nervous origin, and between the attacks 
the patients may take a practically normal diet, particularly 
if the case is chronic, as the wasting is often extreme. The 
mechanical difficulty in swallowing is best combated by the 
nasal tube. Liberal feeding, whenever possible, should be 
the rule in this disease. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 



CHAPTER XI 
DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 

BY NOEL DEAN BARDSWELL, M.D., M.R.C.P., AND JOHN 
ELLIS CHAPMAN, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. 

TUBERCULOSIS is one of the wasting diseases, and the rationale 
of its treatment consists in improving general nutrition, repairing 
waste, and in increasing what we know as the resistant and re- 
cuperative powers of the human body ; in this treatment dietetics 
form one of the most important factors at our command. It 
is not a simple matter to generalize when speaking on the subject 
of the dieting of tuberculosis. The disease may manifest itself in 
such varied forms ; it may be very acute, for example, as a general 
infection, or the morbid process may be quite localized and give 
rise to little or no constitutional symptoms ; very often, as in the 
case of pulmonary tuberculosis, for instance, the disease runs 
a protracted and chronic course with intervals of more acute 
exacerbations. The signs and symptoms, then, of tuberculosis 
differ considerably, according to the character of the infection, 
and the part, or parts, of the body affected ; for this reason, the 
dietetic indications in patients suffering from this disease may 
vary a good deal. The diet, for example, which is in every way 
adequate for a patient with a limited and quiescent lesion in the 
lung, and whose body weight is in excess of his normal, will 
usually be found to be quite unsuitable for a patient with exten- 
sive and active disease in the same situation, associated with 
high fever and general constitutional disturbance. Tubercu- 
losis of the larynx, associated with dysphagia, and the common 
complication of consumption, haemoptysis, both require special 
dietetic treatment ; tuberculosis of the intestines and kidneys, 
and the various dyspepsias due to tubercular infection, also have 



360 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

their special dietetic indications. Speaking generally, the princi- 
ples underlying the dietetic treatment of all types of tubercular 
disease are the same, but in the case of disease of certain organs, 
there are special indications to be considered. We may, then, 
conveniently discuss the subject of dietetics in tuberculosis in 
two sections (1) the dietetic treatment in tuberculosis generally, 
and (2) the special dietetic indications in tuberculosis of various 
organs. 



THE DIETETIC TREATMENT IN TUBERCULOSIS 
GENERALLY 

Our researches upon the dietetics of tuberculosis have been 
carried out in the course of some eight years' residence in sana- 
toria for the treatment of this disease. The patients we have 
treated, although they have been for the most part patients 
suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, have included a good 
number of those suffering from tuberculosis of other organs, 
more especially of the larynx and of the intestines ; a fair pro- 
portion of cases of surgical tuberculosis, such as bone and joint 
disease, lupus, etc., have also been observed. Our conclusions, 
then, as to the broad lines upon which the dieting of tuberculosis 
should be based have been formed as the result of observations 
upon a large number of patients suffering from tuberculosis in 
various regions, and for this reason we think that they may be 
taken as having a general application in the treatment of the 
disease. Opinions as to the best principles upon which diets 
for the treatment of tuberculosis should be constructed have 
differed very much, and at the present time the practice of 
physicians in this respect varies very considerably. An interest- 
ing illustration of the fact is afforded us by the statistics collected 
by Irving Fisher of Newhaven, in America, for the annual meet- 
ing of the National Association for the Study and Prevention 
of Tuberculosis held at Washington in May, 1906. The results 
of his inquiry are published in the Transactions of this Society 
(1906). Fisher states that "Letters of inquiry were sent out 
to 95 of the leading sanatoria of the world of which 63 were in 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 361 

the United States, 2 in Canada, 13 in Germany, 11 in Great 
Britain, and the remainder in France, Austria, Norway, Switzer- 
land, and Russia. Very few " (less than 20 apparently), he 
continues, " supplied any measured data, and in most cases the 
statement of the food consumed was given only in a general 
way." 

In regard to the question of the quantity of food consumed, 
Fisher found that of 64 sanatorium physicians, 28 were distinctly 
in favour of the system of forced feeding, and 29 were distinctly 
reactionaries against it. In the table of measured data which 
will be found in Fisher's Appendix, it will be seen that the dietaries 
range all the way from 2,500 calories to 5,500 calories, and have 
a protein value of from 1 60 to 300 grammes. Commenting on 
these facts, Irving Fisher writes : " Naturally, not all of these 
standards can be correct, and if we are to believe that there is 
any virtue in physiological economy, we must conclude that 
those sanatoria which use the lowest standards consistent with 
weight-gaining must be more nearly on the right track." 

In conclusion, Fisher sums up the present position with 
regard to the question of the dieting of consumptives in the fol- 
lowing words : " There is as yet very little known with certainty 
as to the most efficient diet in the treatment of tuberculosis 
or the extent to which this diet should be individualized. In 
order to determine either the standard or individual diet, much 
study and accurate observation are needed." 

The object of our researches was to determine (1) the best 
principles upon which to construct diets for the treatment of 
tuberculosis and (2) if possible, to arrive at a standard diet suitable 
for the treatment of the average tubercular person. 

We may say that it is clearly impossible to construct a dietary 
which is suitable for the treatment of all types of tuberculosis 
and for every individual sufferer from this disease. To attempt 
to do so would be to attempt as impossible a task as that of con- 
structing a dietary which would be suitable for every one enjoy- 
ing normal health, irrespective of sex, age, or occupation. How- 
ever, in the same way as it has been possible as the result of pro- 
longed scientific research and observation to formulate the essen- 
tial principles upon which diets for normal individuals should 



362 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

be constructed, so it should be possible to determine the princi- 
ples upon which diets should be constructed for the use of those 
suffering from tuberculosis. Further, it seems reasonable to 
assume that by continued accurate observations upon a large 
number of patients, a standard diet can be determined which is 
suitable for the treatment of the average tubercular patient, and 
which, with slight modifications, either by way of increase or de- 
crease in some of its constituents, should be suitable for any 
individual suffering from this disease. 

Method of observation. Every patient on admission was 
carefully examined and observed for a day or two. This enabled 
us to estimate the extent and activity of the disease, and to 
ascertain the amount of fever present, the degree of emaciation, 
and to some extent the general constitution of the patient, and 
more especially the condition of his alimentary tract. We next 
estimated the nutritive value of the diet which was physiological, 
i.e. adequate for the requirements of the individual patient when 
in normal health and up to his normal weight. We then con- 
structed a diet for the patient, in which the chief constituents 
of his physiological diet, viz., protein, fat, and carbo-hydrate, 
were increased in certain definite amounts. During the course 
of our observations we varied the amounts of the increase in 
protein, fat, and carbo-hydrate considerably in different cases, 
and in many individual cases we observed their progress on diets 
of varying nutritive value. 

As a matter of routine practice we increased the physio- 
logical diets of patients in the several chief constituents accord- 
ing to the degree of activity of the disease and the amount of 
emaciation present in any individual case. 

In every instance the physiological diet for the individual 
patient when up to his normal weight and in normal health was 
taken as the basis for his sanatorium dietary. The diet as pre- 
scribed thus represented the physiological diet, with the addition 
of certain definite amounts of protein, fat, or carbo-hydrate. The 
diet prescribed was given to the patients in accurately weighed- 
out and measured amounts, and after the completion of every 
meal, any food-stuff that was left was also accurately weighed. 
By this means we obtained definite data as to the exact amount 



DIET IX TUBERCULOSIS 363 

of the various foods taken by each patient throughout the whole 
course of treatment. 

Careful clinical observations were always made with regard 
to the progress of the lung disease, alterations in body- weight, 
improvement in general health, etc. 

In many cases, metabolic examinations were also made. 
Sometimes these observations were made during a four-day 
period once a month ; in other cases, they were made daily for 
periods varying from a week to three months. The points especi- 
ally studied were (1) the absorption of fat and nitrogen, (2) the 
amount of excreted nitrogen, (3) the form in which the nitrogen 
was excreted, viz., whether simple or in the more highly elaborated 
form, and their percentage relation. (4) The amount of intestinal 
putrefaction as evidenced by the ratio between the aromatic and 
the alkaline sulphates excreted and the amount of indican. 

General principles regarding increase of protein, fat, carbo- 
hydrate and calorie value. Generally speaking, a person suffer- 
ing from tuberculosis requires a more generous diet than is 
physiological for him when in ordinary health. There are, as 
has been already noted, three chief constituents of a diet, viz., 
protein, fat, and carbo-hydrate. The question is, in which con- 
stituent and to what extent should the increase be made ? Some 
physicians with considerable experience in the treatment of 
tuberculosis advise that the increase be made in protein sparers, 
especially fat, while others advocate a very generous increase 
of all the constituents. Our experience is that the morbid process 
clears up better and general health improves more rapidly when 
patients are treated with diets richer in protein than those usually 
taken in health. We have, for instance, in the case of patients 
whose progress has been somewhat stationary, noticed distinct 
improvement immediately follow the addition to their diets 
of more protein. In similar cases, when a comparable increase 
has been made in the carbo-hydrate and fat, the protein intake 
remaining the same, there has not been the same improvement. 
Theoretically, one might expect equally good results to be asso- 
ciated with the increased use of protein sparers, and an 
actual increase of protein ; in practice we have not found this 
to be so. It seems possible that the beneficial effects of an 



364 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

increased protein intake may be in part accounted for by the 
extractives contained in the meat. We have found, however, 
that when using a diet containing no meat at all, and in which 
the protein is given chiefly in the form of milk, pulse and oatmeal 
in which the amount of extractives is negligible we obtain 
results as satisfactory as when prescribing protein chiefly in the 
form of meat. Protein produces a stimulating effect upon the 
general body metabolism, and thus has a beneficial influence upon 
general nutrition ; the value of an increased protein intake in the 
treatment of tuberculosis is probably thus explained. 

With regard to the amount of the increase of protein we have 
observed the course of tubercular disease in a large number of 
patients treated upon diets containing daily amounts of protein 
ranging from 150 grammes to 250 grammes, and our experience 
has been as follows : excellent results both from clinical and meta- 
bolic standpoints have been obtained when using diets containing 
150 grammes of protein daily. Increasing the intake of protein 
beyond this point, viz., 150 grammes daily, is not associated 
with any better clinical or experimental results ; on the other 
hand, we have found that large amounts of protein may do 
actual harm. Metabolic investigation shows that with a very 
large protein intake, a very large proportion of the nitrogen in- 
gested is immediately excreted, and throws a considerable strain 
upon the alimentary and excretory organs, the amount of nitro- 
gen excreted in less completely oxidized form is increased, and 
there is evidence also of increased intestinal putrefaction. Our 
experience is, then, that the increase in protein in any individual 
case should be some 25 to 30 per cent on the amount of protein 
contained in his physiological diet ; this, on an average, works 
out at some 150 grammes daily. 

Fat and carbo-hydrates. The necessity for increasing the 
energy-giving foods of the dietary when treating tuberculosis has 
frequently been insisted upon, indeed, a good deal more stress 
has been laid upon this point than upon the desirability of in- 
creasing the protein. As a matter of interest, we would point 
out that the way in which the increase in energy-giving food is 
usually made, viz., by the addition of milk, means that a consider- 
able increase is at the same time made in the amount of protein. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 365 

In a large majority of cases of tuberculosis, it is undoubtedly 
desirable to increase the amount of energy-giving foods, especi- 
ally so in the case of patients who have much fever or who 
are considerably below their proper body- weight. Fat is a less 
bulky form of energy-giving food than carbo-hydrate, and for this 
reason is much more readily taken ; a patient with anorexia will 
take a considerable amount more nourishment in the form of fat 
than in the form of carbo-hydrate. Fat, then, is rightly recognized 
as a very valuable item in diets for the tubercular. Fat, also, by 
experimental observations, we have found to be extremely well 
absorbed, even by patients with high fever and acute constitu- 
tional symptoms ; for example, 96- 4 per cent was absorbed by a 
patient who took 231 grammes of fat daily. An increase of energy- 
giving foods beyond a certain point is prejudicial, just in the same 
way as an increase of protein beyond a certain point does harm 
rather than good. The taking of an excessive amount of fat and 
carbo-hydrate results in the putting on of too much body- weight, 
largely in the form of fat, a condition which is associated with 
dyspnoea, flabbiness, poor general muscular tone, and often 
anorexia and dyspepsia. 

It is difficult to state the amount of the increase which should 
be made in fat and carbo-hydrate, as this depends a great deal 
upon the amount of physical exercise which the patient is allowed 
to take, as well as upon the other factors which we have previously 
referred to. On an average, the tubercular patient at physiological 
rest, viz., not engaged in actual muscular exertion, appears to do 
best upon a diet which represents an increase of 30 per cent in 
total calorie value upon his physiological diet. On diets of such 
a value, and assuming that the protein value has been increased 
1 50 grammes, our patients have regained lost weight at the rate of 
from 1-2 Ib. a week until they are a few pounds in excess of their 
normal body-weights, a condition which is usually associated 
with all-round satisfactory progress. In the case of tubercular 
patients who have quiescent lesions and are restored in general 
health, and who may be engaged in actual manual work, a still 
larger amount of energy-giving food will be required ; for example, 
to patients with arrested pulmonary tuberculosis engaged in 
heavy gardening work such as digging, we prescribe diets with a 



366 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

calorie value, up to 4,500 grammes, with most satisfactory results. 
A very fair and " rough and ready " guide, as to whether a patient 
is taking a proper amount of energy-giving food, is given us by 
his weight. A steady gain of weight of from 1-2 Ib. a week in 
the case of a patient with active disease who is considerably below 
his weight is satisfactory. A steady increase of body-weight 
in the case of a patient already some pounds in excess of what is 
deemed his normal body-weight, is an indication that he is taking 
too much energy-giving food, or not taking sufficient exercise. 
Our practice is to make a reduction of 15 per cent in the energy- 
giving foods when a patient has reached a body-weight slightly 
in excess of his normal. 

To summarize, then, the general principles for the dieting of 
the tuberculous are as follows : 

1. The amount of protein in the physiological diet should 
be increased by 30 per cent, and this increase should be main- 
tained until the disease is obsolete. 

2. If the patient is under weight, the physiological diet should 
also be increased 30 per cent in the purely energy-giving foods, 
viz., either in fats or carbo-hydrates, or partly in each. This 
increase should be maintained until the weight becomes stationary 
at a point a few pounds in excess of the patient's highest known 
weight before becoming infected with tuberculosis. 

A decrease of 15 per cent may then be made, and the diet, 
thus altered, should be continued until the disease is obsolete. 

Individual and class habits will determine the relative amounts 
of fat and carbo-hydrate prescribed. 

(3) Patients with constitutional disturbance associated with 
anorexia or dyspepsia usually require a somewhat concentrated 
diet, so as to give the comparatively large amount of nourishment 
hi a but slightly increased bulk of food-stuffs. 

(4) The meals should be well cooked, varied, and given as far 
as possible at considerable intervals, and reliance should be placed 
upon plain food-stuffs whenever possible ; invalid food should 
only be used when ordinary foods cannot be taken. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 367 



THE STANDARD DIET 

To arrive at a standard diet suitable for the treatment of the 
average adult suffering from tuberculosis, we have worked out 
the average nutritive value of the diets taken by 200 of our 
patients who made very satisfactory recoveries. We have, in 
this analysis, considered the diets taken by the men and women 
patients separately, and from them we have calculated the stan- 
dard diet for each sex respectively. The 200 patients by whom 
these diets were taken, as has previously been mentioned, repre- 
sented many types of tubercular disease both as regards the 
exact nature of, the extent of, and the severity of the morbid 
process. The nutritive value of the average diet taken by the 
men patients works out at approximately 150 grammes of protein 
and 3,200 calories daily, the average diet taken by the women at 
128 grammes of protein and 2,700 calories. These are standard 
working diets, and as such will be found very useful, and to give 
very satisfactory clinical results. They will, of course, require 
modification in individual cases ; for example, a man of large 
physique will require quite 10 per cent more protein and 20 per 
cent more calorie value than a small man, other things being 
equal. As a matter of experience, however, we do not often 
prescribe to patients with active tuberculosis diets with a lower 
nutritive value than those of our standard dietary. 

It is of interest to compare our standard diets with the standard 
diet worked out by a careful observer on this subject, Dr. H. M. 
King of the Loomis Sanatorium in America. In his paper, 
" Diets in Tuberculosis " published in the Transactions of the 
National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tubercu- 
losis (Washington, 1906), Dr. King thus describes his observations : 

" With a view of establishing a working diet, so to speak, for 
certain classes of tubercular invalids the following experiment 
was recently made at the annex of the Loomis Sanatorium. 
Twelve patients equally divided as to sex were selected with refer- 
ence first, to similarity of conditions, all but one with quiescent 
or arrested lesions, and that one with but a very moderately active 
lesion ; secondly, with reference to similarity of weight, the men 



368 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

averaging 11 or 1 2 kilos more tharTthe women ; and thirdly, with 
reference to a close approach of each patient to his or her normal 
weight. In all but one case the patients were but slightly below 
the indicated standard ; nevertheless, the appearance was that 
of a very well-nourished group of individuals. These patients 
were placed at a table by themselves, and their food, while not 
differing from that of the other patients, either in quality or quan- 
tity, was accurately weighed and recorded for a period of 14 days. 
The average diet taken by these patients throughout this period 
worked out at 166 grammes protein, 179 grammes fat, 322 grammes 
carbo-hydrate, with a calorie value of 3,667." 

Commenting on this average diet, Dr. King states that " This 
dietary has seemed to us to meet in a fairly satisfactory manner 
the requirements of the class of tuberculous invalids treated in 
the annex division of the Loomis Sanatorium. Nevertheless, 
I felt that the protein constituent of the dietary has been in 
excess of the tissue needs, and if so, that an unnecessary and 
perhaps harmful tax was thus imposed upon the organs concerned 
in protein metabolism and elimination." 

The diet taken by King's patients at the Loomis Sanatorium 
is somewhat larger than our standard diet for men, both in pro- 
tein and calorie value, the average daily intake of protein in 
King's diet being 166 grammes compared with 150 grammes in 
our standard diet. 





Grams, of Protein. 


Cals. 


King's standard diet .... 
Our standard diet for men . 


166 
150 


3,667 
3,200 



In a letter to us on the subject, King writes : " The question 
of establishing the minimum protein food constituent which 
would give a plus nitrogen balance in cases of tuberculosis is of 
much interest to me, and I have not by any means reached 
satisfactory conclusions with regard to it. For the present, 
the average diet which we find, for practical purposes, most 
useful, is almost identical with that which you quote as having 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 369 

been found most satisfactory with you, except that we probably 
average a greater consumption of carbo-hydrates, bringing the 
total calories to from 3,000 to 3,700." 



ON THE TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS WITH VERY LARGE 
DIETS, OFTEN SPOKEN OF AS FORCED FEEDING 

The treatment of tuberculosis, especially of pulmonary 
tuberculosis, with very large diets has been so frequently advo- 
cated, and is still so widely practised, that it is necessary to refer 
to it. 

The routine treatment of consumption with diets of a very 
high nutritive value is very often associated with most satisfac- 
tory clinical results, as evidenced by arrest of the tubercular 
process and restoration of health and strength, although this 
method of treatment results in a considerable strain being thrown 
upon the digestive system and the body metabolism. In the 
case of patients who have good constitutions, and especially good 
digestions, continued high feeding may produce no permanent 
and indeed little or no temporary ill-effects, except some dyspnoea 
due to excess of body-weight. Such a patient becomes obviously 
too fat, often a stone or two above his normal weight, but his 
digestive and excretory organs may successfully cope with the 
strain imposed upon them. On return to ordinary life, on com- 
pletion of his course of treatment, such a patient loses a good 
deal of his excess weight, and the net result may be satisfactory 
enough. In many instances, however, and notably in the case 
of patients with naturally weak digestions and in those who con- 
tinue the high feeding for a long time after their normal body- 
weight has been well exceeded, the taking of a very large diet 
is attended with very serious disadvantages. One of the earliest 
symptoms is failure of appetite, amounting to a positive loathing 
of food ; very often also there is flatulent dyspepsia. 

This impairment of the alimentary system is often associated 
on exertion with a degree of dyspnoea out of all proportion to 
the extent of the lung disease ; this dyspnoea is no doubt due 
to the loss of the physiological balance between the cardio-respira- 

24 



370 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tory functions and body-weight. An individual in such a con- 
dition looks obviously too fat, and not infrequently, in addition to 
some degree of anorexia and flatulent dyspepsia, he complains 
of a feeling of heaviness throughout the day, but especially 
marked after meals, and a general inaptitude for physical and 
mental exertion. If the administration of very large diets be 
continued after the condition just described has been established, 
vomiting and diarrhoea may follow, representing, as Sir Douglas 
Powell suggests, " the attempts of nature to rectify our want 
of foresight." The result is that the individual, for a time at 
least, takes a smaller diet and loses some weight, and his alimen- 
tary tract benefiting from this rest usually soon recovers its normal 
tone. It is to be said in favour of the system of continued very 
high feeding that, in spite of the discomforts and digestive dis- 
orders from which many patients suffer when thus treated, it 
often results in the tubercular disease becoming arrested. Exces- 
sive feeding is clearly a vastly .better method of treatment than 
under-feeding, for it at least ensures the patient taking enough 
to repair his waste. The point to realize is that such over-fee<ling 
is quite an unnecessary hardship for a patient to undergo, and 
that it may do positive harm. 



ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF DIETS HAVING THE SAME 
NUTRITIVE VALUE AS OUR STANDARD DIETS 

The diet prescribed to patients suffering from tuberculosis 
should contain the food-stuffs generally used by people in ordinary 
life. To construct any dietary of a certain definite nutritive 
value it is necessary to have a knowledge of the percentage 
composition of the various food-stuffs contained in it. 

The following table gives the approximate nutritive values 
of the food-stuffs commonly used and will be found of considerable 
practical value. The analyses of the uncooked foods are taken 
from Attwater's tables. The nutritive value of the cooked foods 
mentioned in the table we have ourselves determined by a series 
of analyses. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 



371 



Approximate Nutritive Value per Ounce of 
Food-stuffs. 


P. 

Grammes. 


P. 

Grammes. 


C.H. 

Grammes. 


Beef, roasted as served 


7 


2 




Mutton, game, chicken, etc 


6 


1 





Boiled fish 


4'5 


1 




Raw meat, scraped 


4 


Trace 




Milk puddings, blancmange, custard, etc. . 
Boiled suet puddings 


1-2 
1-7 


1-2 
36 


4 
142 


Boiled potatoes 


0-6 




6 


Eggs 


6 


4 






2'3 




14 


Butter, dripping, margarine, etc. 
Milk (per oz.) 


1 


22 
1-2 


1-5 


Benger's food (made entirely with milk) . 


1-2 


1-2 


34 



Milk. Milk is a very valuable food-stuff, since by its use a 
considerable amount of nourishment can be prescribed in a very 
easily-taken form. The inclusion of 3 pints of milk in a patient's 
dietary means that a third of the necessary protein and calorie 
value is thus given. Milk, however, is not an essential constituent 
of the diet, especially in the treatment of patients who have normal 
digestions and can take solid foods. When, on grounds of economy, 
milk is not advantageously included in the diet, the patient does 
perfectly well, so long, of course, as the nutritive value of his 
diet is kept up to the requisite standard. 

When whole milk cannot be afforded, use should very often be 
made of skimmed, or separated, milk. 

It must be admitted that whole milk is much more palatable 
than separated (or skimmed) milk, but, at the same time, sepa- 
rated milk, as a drink, is by no means so unpalatable as to contra- 
indicate its use. The main use, however, for which we recommend 
separated milk is in cooking. 

In puddings it is almost impossible to distinguish those made 
with whole milk from those made with separated milk. 

Again, separated milk can be used advantageously in making 
cocoa, oatmeal porridge, and, in general, most articles which 
require milk. 

It may be said that the use of separated milk, which is con- 
fessedly of lower nutritive value, bulk for bulk, than whole milk, 
lowers the nutritive value of the diet. This is, of course, quite 
true, but it is of little or no importance to the healthy man, who 



372 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

can make up the deficiency easily enough in other ways. In the 
case of persons with poor appetites, the fat lost by separation 
can readily enough be restored by the use of an equivalent amount 
of margarine, which, for cooking purposes, is quite as satisfactory 
as butter and less expensive. A gallon of whole milk loses 168 
grammes of fat by the process of separation, and this 168 grammes 
of fat costs 8d. One hundred and sixty-eight grammes of fat, 
in the form of the best margarine, costs about 3d. In other 
words, we save 5d. per gallon if we use separated milk and mar- 
garine in place of whole milk without affecting either the nutri- 
tive value in the slightest degree or the palatability, provided 
the materials are used for cooking only. 

These economic properties of milk, though not generally 
made use of, appear to us to be worthy of the consideration of 
those responsible for the construction of dietaries for the poor. 

Meat. Meat should always be included in the dietary as one 
of the chief sources of protein. Meat, also is not an essential, 
when treating patients with normal appetites and digestions ; 
we have obtained excellent clinical results when treating tuber- 
cular patients upon entirely meat-free diets, in which the protein 
was given in milk and vegetable foods. These meat-free diets, 
though very cheap, are difficult to make really palatable and, in 
the long run, it is better economy to include a certain amount of 
meat. 

The amount of meat included in the average standard dietary 
should be quite reasonable, viz., from 9-1 2 oz. of meat, as purchased 
daily. An ill-balanced diet containing a large excess of meat, 
is as prejudicial to the tubercular as to the normal individual. 
In some cases with marked dyspepsia or high fever, and also in 
tuberculous enteritis, we have found raw meat to be very bene- 
ficial ; this may be, in part, accounted for by raw meat being 
very easily, and completely, absorbed by the alimentary canal. 

When prescribing raw meat, there is some risk, however, of 
introducing parasites. 

Cod-liver oil, etc. Cod-liver oil, malt and oil, etc., are to be 
considered more in the light of food-stuffs than of drugs. They 
have a very distinct value, especially in private practice, as the 
amount of fat given daily can be readily increased by prescribing 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 373 

them as a medicine to be taken with meals. It is quite possible 
that these oils have a beneficial effect, quite apart from their food 
value, but this point is uncertain. 

In sanatorium practice they are but rarely used, as fat can be 
given in adequate amounts in more palatable ways, for instance, 
in butter and milk. Oils are very valuable indeed in the dieting 
of tuberculous children, as they are readily taken by them. 
In the case of out-patients, also, they are a very useful means of 
increasing the value of the diet. 

AlcohoL There is a considerable difference of opinion as to 
the value of alcohol hi the dietetic treatment of tuberculosis. 

We do not advise the inclusion of alcohol in a routine diet for 
a sanatorium for tubercular patients or as a regular constituent 
of a tubercular dietary. Alcohol, however, is often of use ; 
in patients with considerable debility, a glass of Burgundy, or 
some good wine with luncheon and dinner, often improves the 
appetite and digestion of such patients ; in the case, too, of people 
who have always been used to a certain amount of alcohol, it is 
sometimes advisable to allow small amounts to be taken at the 
usual times. A glass of beer at meals in place of milk can often 
be given to convalescent patients with advantage. Alcohol is 
often of great service in treating patients who are acutely ill, or 
considerably exhausted ; brandy, in doses of 1-3 oz. daily, in 
our experience is the most satisfactory form in which to prescribe 
it. In the treatment of night sweats, also, -! oz. of brandy, 
given in hot milk, often gives great relief, and not infrequently, 
the taking of such a draught in the early hours of the morning 
will altogether prevent the occurrence of this depressing symptom. 

DIETS FOR THE LEISURED CLASSES 

The diets prescribed to people suffering from tuberculosis 
should be as far as possible similar to those taken by the same 
individuals when in ordinary health ; the nutritive value, how- 
ever, must be somewhat larger on an average, some 150 grammes 
protein and 3,200 calories daily. An examination of the diets 
usually taken by the leisured classes shows us that their aver- 
age intake of 120 grammes of protein daily is taken approxi- 



374 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

mately in the following way : in meat and fish, 60 per cent, 
in dairy produce, such as milk and eggs, 16 per cent, the remain- 
ing 24 per cent, being taken as vegetable protein, for instance, 
in bread, potatoes, etc. Energy is mostly taken in the form 
of bread, cakes, pastry, etc., butter, puddings of various sorts 
(which contain milk, suet, eggs and butter in their composi- 
tion), bacon, and, to a less extent, in fruit, vegetables, jams, 
marmalade, sugar, etc. Approximately speaking, the propor- 
tion of fat to carbo-hydrate in the ordinary diet of the leisured 
classes is 3 parts of fat to 5 parts of carbo-hydrate. It will be 
remembered that fat is a more expensive, but a more palatable 
and less bulky form of energy-giving food than carbo-hydrate ; 
this fact explains the preference of the leisured classes for fat 
as a source of energy. 

When constructing dietaries for use by tubercular patients 
of the leisured classes, the increase of 30 per cent of protein 
and calorie value is best made by adding to an average normal 
dietary the requisite amount of food-stuffs of a similar nature 
to those which are already included in the dietary. Supposing 
that on inquiry we find that any particular patient's diet when 
in normal health has been adequate from a nutritive stand- 
point, an addition of 3 pints of milk daily will often be sufficient 
to bring this dietary up to the necessary nutritive standard for 
the efficient treatment of tuberculosis. Three pints of milk 
means an addition to the dietary of 

Protein. Fat. Carbo-hydrates. Calories. 

50 60 75 1,070 

In short, of one-third of the diet necessary. 

It must not be forgotten, however, in this respect, that the 
diets of patients when they are first found to be tubercular 
are often inadequate, the patient having unconsciously materi- 
ally reduced his dietary in consequence of gradually increasing 
anorexia. The diet, then, of any patient when he first comes 
under observation very often does not represent the individual's 
ordinary diet when in normal health. This construction of a 
diet for the tubercular by the addition of 3 pints of milk to an 
individual's ordinary diet when in health is a very simple method 
and is often satisfactory ; in actual practice, however, many 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 375 

people find some difficulty in taking an extra 3 pints of milk in 
addition to the milk they are already taking in tea, coffee, pud- 
dings, etc. The extra milk may be taken, a pint at each meal, 
or half a pint may be taken at each meal, the other three half- 
pints being taken at other times preferably, perhaps, on waking, 
in the middle of the morning, and in the middle of the after- 
noon, or the last thing at night. The majority of people prefer 
the latter method, viz., taking the milk in half -pints distributed 
over the day, but, in our experience, the one method is quite 
as satisfactory as the other from a clinical standpoint. A 
certain number of people are unable to take milk in its natural 
form on account of dyspepsia and other alimentary disturbances 
which it gives rise to ; in some of these cases, the symptoms 
appear to be due to a real dyspepsia ; in others, and more often 
in people of a nervous temperament, the difficulty appears to 
be simply an idiosyncrasy. It is very rarely, however, that 
milk cannot be satisfactorily taken by these patients if its taste 
be disguised somewhat. The best methods of altering the milk 
are as follows : (1) by the addition to it of a small quantity of 
very strong tea or coffee ; (2) by making it into a rather fluid 
Benger's food preparation ; (3) by having it completely or 
partially pancreatized ; (4) by flavouring the milk with bovril, 
in the proportion of a teaspoonful of bovril to a half a pint of 
milk ; this last method results in a richly flavoured and very 
nutritive beef- tea, from which the taste of milk is absent. A 
certain amount of milk can be given in the shape of junket, 
custard, egg-flip, etc., but these preparations are only subsidiary, 
and must not be relied upon as the chief means of prescribing 
milk. 

The value of milk, as a constituent of diets for the tuber- 
cular has long been recognized, and many people think that a 
dietary for a consumptive cannot be adequate and efficient if milk 
is not included in it. This, as already explained, is a fallacy. Milk, 
in short, has no specific value from a clinical standpoint. 

Detailed description of diets for the leisured classes. 
The following dietary has the nutritive value of our standard 
diet for the treatment of the average tubercular man, viz., protein 
155, calorie value, 3,250. 



376 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 





Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Milk 3 pints 


Grms. 
57 


Grms. 
70 


Grms. 
87 




16 


2 


88 






32 







1 


6 







20 


10 







44 


22 





Milk pudding 4 oz. ....... 


) 






Suet or sponge pudding, 3 oz 


r 9 
i 


16 


50 
30 


Eee 1 . 


6 


4 




Stewed fruit, green vegetables, soups, etc., 
from time to time Q s ..... 


1 


1 


7 




1 


2 


12 










Totals 


155 


160 


275 



Total calorie value 3,250. 

In the above table the nutritive values of the majority of 
the food-stuffs have been calculated from the tables of the per- 
centage composition of food-stuffs of Attwater, and in the case 
of the food-stuffs from original analyses. 

In practice this dietary may conveniently be given in the 
following way : 



Man. 




Woman. 




BREAKFAST. 




Two breakfast cups. 


Milk (usually flavoured 


Two breakfast cups. 




with coffee). 




Four ordinary-sized 


Toast (or bread). 


Three ordinary-sized 


" triangles." 




" triangles." 


A piece the size of 


Butter. 


A piece the size of a 


a walnut. 




walnut. 


One egg. 


Egg. 


One egg. 


An ordinary sized 


Bacon, cold ham, tongue, 


An ordinary sized 


helping. 


a herring, or a fillet of 


helping. 




fish, etc., etc. 




Four tablespoonfuls. 


Porridge (in place of half 


Three tablespoonfuls. 




the bread) and milk or 






cream. 






11 A.M. 




A tumblerful. 


Milk. 


A tumblerful. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 



377 



Man. 




Woman. 




LUNCH. 




A tumblerful. 


Milk. 


A tumblerful. 


An ordinary sized 


Fish or entree. 


An ordinary sized 


helping. 




helping. 


2 J oz. (a large helping). Meat. 


2 oz. (a large helping). 


Two, the size of a 


Potatoes. Two, the size of a 


hen's egg. 


hen's egg. 


According to taste. 


Green vegetables. According to taste. 


Half a round (thick). 


Bread. Half a round (thick). 


A piece the size of a 


Butter. 


A piece the size of a 


walnut. 




walnut. 


A large helping 


Milk or other pudding, A large helping 


(4 or 5 oz.). 


stewed fruit and custard (3 or 4 oz.). 




or creams, etc. 




Tea, a slice of thin 


TEA. 


Tea, a slice of thin 


bread and butter and 




bread and butter and 


a piece of cake, 




a piece of cake, 


pastry, etc. 




pastry, etc. 




DlNNEK. 




A tumblerful. 


Milk. 


A tumblerful. 


If desired. 


Soup. 


If desired. 


An ordinary helping. 


Fish or entree. An ordinary helping. 




(Meat. ^ 




As at lunch. 


Potatoes and vegetables, j- 


As at lunch. 




Pudding, etc. 




Half a round. 


Bread or toast. 


Half a round. 


A piece the size of 


Butter. 


A piece the size of 


a walnut 




a walnut 


If desired. 


Savoury or cheese, etc. 


If desired. 




Dessert. 






AT BEDTIME. 




A tumblerful. 


Milk. 


A tumblerful. 



N.B. The essential food-stuffs in the above dietary are printed in 
Roman letters ; those which may be left to the discretion of the patient in 
italics. 

Approximate value of the above diets : 

Men . . . .155 protein 160 fat 275 carbo-hydrate. 
Women . . .135 protein 140 fat 230 carbo-hydrate. 

If the above diets are compared with those taken by people 
in ordinary health, it is seen that there is no great difference 
between them, the additional milk, perhaps, being the principal 
feature. It is essential, of course, that these diets be varied 
and well cooked. 



378 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



When varying the puddings, it must be remembered that 
they should always be made of highly nutritive food-stuffs. 
Fruit should be given at least three times a week in the form 
of stewed fruit, tarts, etc. ; vegetables, also, are an important 
item in the diet ; and a fair amount of potatoes and greens 
should be given at each meat meal ; beans and peas and, to a 
less extent, carrots and parsnips, are also of great value. 

The diet can be conveniently reduced in amount, when 
required, by reducing the amount of milk to 1 pint daily. 

There are a very large number of people what one may 
perhaps term the lower middle classes who take a large mid- 
day meal and a meat tea followed by a light supper in place 
of the luncheon and dinner of the more well-to-do classes. Others, 
again, are in the habit of taking a fairly substantial sit-down 
tea (without meat) and also a substantial supper. To people 
who are accustomed to meals of this kind we can recommend 
the following diets : 



Men. 




Women. 




BREAKFAST. 




A soup-plateful. 


Porridge (oatmeal, rolled 


Four tablespoonfuls. 




oats, etc.), sugar and 






cream. 




One pint. 


Milk. 


One pint. 


\ oz. A piece the size 


Butter. 


J oz. A piece the size 


of a walnut. 




of a walnut. 


Three triangles of toast 


Bread or toast. 


Two triangles of toast 


or a round and a 




or a round of bread. 


half of bread. 






An ordinary helping. 


Egg, bacon or sausage, etc. 


An ordinary helping. 




DINNER. 




4 oz. (a large helping). 


Meat (hot or cold). 


3oz. (a large plateful). 


5 oz. (four the size of 


Potatoes. 


3 oz. (two the size of 


an egg). 




a hen's egg). 


As desired. 


Green vegetables. 


As desired. 


5 oz. (a large helping). 


Milk or suet pudding. 


4 oz. (a large helping). 


1 pint. 


Milk. 


1 pint. 


1 \ oz. (half a round). 


Bread. 


1 oz. (half a round). 


| oz. (a piece the size 


Butter. 


oz. (a piece the size 


of a walnut). 




of a walnut). 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 



370 



Man. 



Woman. 



Three slices thin bread 
and butter. 



3 oz. (a large helping). 



5 oz. (a fair-sized 
helping). 

1 pint. 

2 oz. (half a round, 

thick). 

J oz. (piece the size of 
a walnut). 



TEA. 

Bread. 

Butter. 

Jam, cake, cress, etc. 

SUPPER. 

Cold meat, boiled ham, 
tongue, fillets of fish, 
brawn, sausage, maca- 
roni, cheese, etc., etc. 
Cold sweet such as cream, 
blancmange, fruit and 
custard, trifle, etc. 
Milk (possibly made into 

cocoa). 

Bread or biscuit (with 
cheese if preferred). 
Butter. 



Two slices thin bread 
and butter. 



2 } oz. (a large helping). 



4 oz. (a fair-sized 
helping). 

1 pint, 
oz. (half a round). 

oz. (a piece the size 
of a walnut). 



The above dietary has the following nutritive value : 
Men . . . .156 protein 168 fat 
Women . 



. 130 protein 145 fat 



283 carbo-hydrate 
calorie value. 

235 carbo-hydrate 
calorie value. 



In the above table the essential articles are printed in 
Roman type, and the non-essentials in italics. 



DIETS FOR THE WORKING CLASSES 

When prescribing diets for the working classes, we have to 
bear in mind the following important points: (1) the diet, in 
its general lines of construction, must be similar to the meals 
which the poorer classes habitually take ; for instance, it must 
contain considerably more carbo-hydrates than fat, roughly 
in the proportion of 5 parts of carbo-hydrate to 1 of fat. (2) 
The diet must be cheap, generally speaking, not costing more 
than one shilling a day. 

Principles of construction of the average working class diet 
The general lines of construction of dietaries taken by the work- 



380 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



ing classes are well shown in the following table. This table 
represents an analysis which we have made of 100 efficient diets 
taken by working class families. The average nutritive value 
of these 100 diets works out at protein 127 grammes, fat 114 
grammes, and carbo-hydrate 417 grammes, giving a calorie value 
of 3,290, the average cost, excluding a small amount spent on 
beer, being Wd. a day. 



TABLE SHOWING THE AVERAGE OF 100 EFFICIENT DIETARIES TAKEN BY 
WORKING-CLASS FAMILIES. 



Food- 
stuffs. 


Amount 


Price (retail). 


Cost in 
Pence. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Milk . 


Grammes. 
pt. 280 


@ \\d. per pt. 


0-75 10 


11 


14 


Meat 1 . 


9 oz. 250 


@ Id. per Ib. 3"93 38 


48 


Butter . 


f oz. 20 


@, Is. per Ib. 0-50 


16 


Fish. . 


2 oz. 56 


@ 4d. per Ib. 


0-50 5 


1 


Cheese . 


\ oz. 14 


@ 6d. per Ib. 


0-20 


4 


5 





Egg- . 


one one 


@ 3 for 2d. 


0-66 


6 


4 





Bacon . 


2 oz. 56 


@ 6d. per Ib. 


0-75 


6 


24 





Total animal food 


7-29 


69 


109 


14 


Bread 2 . 14 oz. 400 @ 2Jd. per 2 Ib. 


1-14 


36 


4 


200 


Flour . 1 oz. 28 |@ Is. 4d. per st. 0'08 


3 





21 


Oatmeal ^ oz. 14 @ 2d. per Ib. 0'07 


2 


1 


10 


Potatoes 9 oz. 250 @ 8d. per st. 0'32 


4 





52 


Sugar . 3 oz. 85 @ 3$d. per Ib. 


0-70 








85 


Rice, etc. oz. 10 @ 2%d. per Ib. 


0-03 








6 


Sundries, vegetables, etc. 3 : 0-43 


6 




20 














2-77 


51 


5 


394 


Beverages and unnecessary articles of 










low nutritive value .... 


0-75 


7 




9 












Total 




10-81 


127 


114 


417 





As shown by the above analysis, the average working man 
takes some 33 per cent of his protein in the shape of meat and 
fish (as compared with 60 per cent taken by the leisured classes 
in the same food-stuffs), 20 per cent in the form of dairy produce, 

1 Includes beef, mutton, pork, liver, sausage, etc. 

2 Includes cakes and buns. 

3 Includes green vegetables, onions, tomatoes, currants, etc. ; fruit, 
tea, coffee, condiments, etc. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 381 

30 per cent in the shape of bread, and 17 per cent in other 
vegetable forms. 

The average working man's diet is a distinctly bulky one 
owing to the large amount of carbo-hydrate it contains. It is 
perhaps worth mentioning that we once prescribed a thoroughly 
adequate dietary, such as we would give to the leisured 
classes, to some working class patients, and they told us it 
did not satisfy their hunger. The very high nutritive value 
of the diet prescribed made it clear that it was perfectly 
adequate from a nutritive standpoint, and further observation 
showed us that it was lack of bulk wherein lay the fault. Appar- 
ently, in the case of many of the healthy working classes, a 
diet of considerable bulk, in addition to an adequate nutritive 
value, is necessary to satisfy hunger. 

The exact construction of a diet for use by the working 
classes depends upon the amount of money available for food. 
In most working class families when the bread winner has full 
work, from five to eight shillings are usually available for the 
purchase of food per week for each adult of the family. When 
a patient can afford a shilling a day for his food his diet can be 
very closely modelled on the average diet shown in our analysis 
of diets taken by the working classes when in health. 

The necessary increase of 30 grammes of protein can be 
conveniently given either as : 

(1) New milk, 2 pints ; this will cost 3d. or 4d. per day. 

(2) Meat ; this will cost 3d. or Id. per day according to the 
kind of meat used. 

(3) Pulse food, 4 oz. ; this will cost %d. per day. 

, f pint new milk or 
4 Pulse food, 3 oz. with\ 

[$ pint separated milk ; 

this will cost 2d. per day, or less. 

Of these various methods of increasing the protein, the 
giving of pulse and milk is perhaps the most economical and 
satisfactory, and the actual diet prescribed to the patient can 
thus be bought for a shilling a day. 

The following diets, which have the requisite nutritive value 
and which can be bought for a shilling a day, we have found to 
be most satisfactory. 



382 



Men. 




Women. 




BREAKFAST. 




Soup-plateful. 


Porridge (sugar and milk). 


Four tablespoonfuls. 


1J oz. (ordinary help- 


Bacon (cooked) or egg. 


1 J oz. (an ordinary 


ing). 




helping). 


5 oz. for tea and por- 


Milk. 


5 oz. for tea and por- 


ridge. 




ridge. 


3 oz. (a round). 


Bread. 


2 oz. (half a round, 






thick). 


J oz. 


Butter. 






DINNER. 




5 oz. (=9 oz. as pur- 


Meat (cooked). 


4 oz. (a large helping). 


chased) (a large 






plateful). 






5 oz. (four the size of 


Potatoes. 


3 oz. (two the size of 


an egg). 




an egg). 




Green vegetables. 




5 oz. (a large helping). 


Suet pudding. 


A large helping. 


pint. 


Milk. 


pint. 




TEA. 




6 oz. (two thick 


Bread, cake, etc. 


4 oz. (a round and 


rounds). 




a quarter). 


1 or 2 oz. (a table- 


Jam. 


1 or 2 oz. 


spoonful). 






oz. (a piece the size 


Butter. 


J oz. (a piece the size 


of a walnut). 




of a walnut). 




SUPPER. 




Soup-plateful. 


Pulse soup, or 


Soup-plateful. 


2 oz. 


Sausage, ham or cold meat. 


2 oz. 


Soup-plateful. 


Or oatmeal porridge and 


Soup-plateful. 




milk and cheese, 2 oz. 




5 oz. 


Milk or light pudding. 


4 oz. 


2 oz. (half a round). 


Bread. 


2 oz. (half a round). 


J oz. 


Butter. 


J oz. 



These diets have the following approximate nutritive values. 



Men . 
Women 



P. 156 
P. 130 



F. 120 
F. 100 



C.H. 468 
C.H. 380 



Cals. 3,674 
Cals. 3,021 



The cost of the above diets works out at about Is. Id. a day 
for men, and a little less for women. 

Cheaper diets for the working classes. When the amount 
of money available for the purchase of food is below Is. per 
week, cheaper diets than those just described must be given, 
it beyig absolutely essential that a diet prescribed for a patient 
should be compatible with his means. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 383 

Our standard working class diet can be reduced in cost in 
various ways without impairing its nutritive value, viz. : 

(1) By reducing the amount of whole milk, and replacing it 
either in part or entirely by separated milk. 

(2) By using the cheaper forms of meat. 

(3) By increasing the amount of bread or pulses. 

(4) By the substitution of margarine for butter. 

In the following table we give, in parallel column, details 
of four dietaries, all of which are adequate in nutritive value, 
for the efficient treatment of tuberculosis, and the cost of which 
varies from 4s. 6d. to 7s. per week. 

The palatability and variety of these diets vary directly 
with their cost ; the cheapest of these diets, costing 1'ld. per 
day, can be made quite sufficiently palatable with a little care. 
It is scarcely possible to prescribe a really adequate diet which 
will cost less than 4s. Qd. per week ; to be efficient, such a diet 
would have to contain a very large amount of vegetable protein, 
viz., pulses, etc., and to make such a diet palatable requires very 
careful, almost skilled, cooking. 

Diet 1 on our table we know by experience to be in every 
way satisfactory. The amount allowed for the purchase of the 
several items of food allows of a considerable variation being made 
from time to time in the diet. Thus, purchasing meat at an 
average price of Id. per pound allows of the inclusion of every 
joint of foreign beef at l^d. per pound, Canterbury lamb or 
mutton at Id. per pound, meat for meat puddings at 4d. or 5d . per 
pound, and of liver, kidney, sausage, etc. Findon haddock, cod, 
etc., and especially tinned salmon, to which the working classes 
are particularly partial, may also be included in the list of food- 
stuffs from which selection can be made. The composition of this 
diet also allows for a suet or milk pudding every day. It will be 
noticed that a pint of milk and an ounce of butter are also included. 

The prices of the various food-stuffs from which the total 
cost of this diet (lT74rf. per day) has been calculated are 
those at which we have actually bought the various articles 
at ordinary shops and in retail amounts. 

In Diet 2, which costs lO'l&Z. per day, economy has been 
effected by giving only half a pint of whole milk and replacing 



384 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



s 

Jj 

I 

o 

h 
O 



*! 
a 

3 



g 5 



3s 



O 
O 

H 

I 



n 
H 



O 
< 
H 
<! 



3 

x^l I I 
23 



\ r i- i 



II 



mm *" IQJ s 

G) (D O ^^ 

1 " J IT M 

Q 



1*9*0 "B *e 
-< o oo -30 



^ a< l 1 1* 

2.2 -3 



00 -N 10 

IO (N CO * 
^ rt ^J( 10 



I I 



I I 



i '8 - 
2 

3 g 
03 



^ -rt . . <D 



S-? S 

f 11 

feOO 



I I 






d^ 

T)^ 

S5 . -ill 

-) C 00-g 

i -si i 

a^ *. , o -3 > 
s. 5 * 



3 ? 

L, - 



o. 
tein 
pe 

. of 
tio 
d 



No 
Ra 
an 



A'ouaionjg; oimouoog 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 



385 



the other half-pint by separated milk. The ounce of butter at 
Is. per pound is replaced by 1 oz. of margarine at Sd. per 
pound, and Qd. per pound is allowed for meat instead of Id. 
This means that, for the most part, the cheaper forms of meat 
will have to be bought. 

In Diet 3, which costs 9~l2d. per day, no whole milk is in- 
cluded, a pint of separated milk being used instead, and only 
5d. per pound is allowed for meat. 

Still further economy, as shown by the fourth diet at a cost 
of 1'ld. per day, is obtained by reducing the amount of separated 
milk to 5 oz. per day, and the amount of meat to 6 oz. per day. 
As compensation, the daily amount of cheese is increased by 1 
oz., the amount of bread by 4 oz., and the amount of pulses by 
1 oz. Such a dietary as this will only be necessary when dealing 
with the very poor. 





Amount. 


Price Retail. 


Nutritive Value. 


Cost. 


Oz. 


Grms. 


Pro- 
tein. 


Fat. 


Car.- 
Hyd. 


Pence. 


Separated milk 
Meat, etc. . 
Margarine . 
Suet 


20 
6 
1 

2 
2 


570 
170 
30 

56 
56 


@ Sd. per gal. 
@ 5d. per Ib. 
@ 6d. per Ib. 

@ 5d. per Ib. 
@ 6d. per Ib. 


19 
31 

18 
4 


1 
20 
22 

11 
24 


28 


i-oo 

1-88 
0-38 

0-63 
0-75 


Cheese (Dutch) . 
Eee . 


Bacon .... 


Total animal food 




72 


78 


28 


4-64 




Bread .... 
Potatoes 
Pulses .... 
Oatmeal 
Sugar .... 


16 
8 
4 
2 
2 
1 
i 


460 
230 
112 
56 
56 
28 
14 


@ 2%d. per 2 Ib. 
@ Sd. per st. 
@ 2d. per Ib. 
@ 2d. per Ib. 
@ 2d. per Ib. 
@ 3$d. per Ib. 
@ 2Jd. per Ib. 


41 
2 
27 

8 

1 
5 


5 

2 
4 


.230 
32 
71 
37 
56 
16 
10 

10 


1 25 
0-28 
0-50 
0-25 
0-31 
0-22 
0-08 

0-20 
0-50 


Rice, etc. 
Flour .... 
Green vegetables . 
Sundries 


Total vegetable fooc 


[ 


84 


11 


462 


3-59 




Total food .' 


156 


89 


490 


8-23 



Calories bought per penny, 409. 

No. of grammes of protein bought per penny, 18'9 

Total calorie value, 3,476. 

Ratio of cost of animal to vegetable food, 56'3 : 43'7. 



25 



386 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The above dietary, which costs just over 8d. per day, will 
also be found adequate for the treatment of tuberculosis. 

Diets for use in sanatoria for the working classes, where the 
patients are employed in various forms of manual labour. In 
sanatoria where the convalescent patients are employed in 
actual manual work, a diet of higher calorie value must be given. 
After considerable experience, we have adopted the following 
dietary as our standard for the treatment of this class of patient. 

Breakfast. Tea. 

Porridge, pt. (=oatmeal, 2 oz.). 

Bacon (cooked), 1J oz. 

Milk for tea and porridge, 5 oz. 

Loaf sugar, f oz. 

Moist sugar for porridge, 1 oz. 

Bread, 3 oz. 

Butter, J oz. 
Dinner. Roast joint, etc., 5 oz. = 9 oz. as purchased. 

Potatoes, 5 oz. = 8 oz. as purchased. 

Suet pudding, 5 oz. 

Green vegetables, q.s. 
Tea. Tea. 

Bread, 8 oz. (three rounds). 

Butter, oz. 

Jam, lettuce, etc., q.s. 
Supper. Pulse soup, pt. (=3 oz. dry pulse). 

Or bread, 3 oz. and cheese, 2 oz. 

Or sausage, liver, fish, ham, etc. 

Milk or cornflour pudding, fruit, etc., 8 oz. 

Cocoa or milk, pint. 

Milk may be added if thought desirable in any individual 
case, but if the whole of the above diet can be taken, milk will 
be unnecessary. 

The protein value of this diet works out at 150 grammes, 
and the total calorie value at about 4,000. 

The use of whole milk and butter, rather than of margarine 
and separated milk which would make the diet appreciably 
cheaper, is advised ; joints of meat are also given daily. An 
important feature in this diet is that the extra amount of 
nourishment required, especially the increase of protein, is given 
in the cheap form of vegetable protein. This vegetable protein, 
however, is given in comparatively small amounts and in a 
palatable form. 

The diet, as a whole, is a palatable one, and readily taken 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 



387 



by the working classes. From a clinical standpoint, also, we 
have found it most satisfactory. Its economic efficiency is 
well shown by the fact that it costs only 6s. Sd. a week, and 
for every penny spent 13- 2 grammes of protein and 336 calories 
are bought. This diet should be reduced 15 per cent in its- 
value when prescribed to women patients. 

The following is a good weekly menu which can be given 
when using the diet just described. 

WEEK'S MENU. 





Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Sunday . 


Porridge and 
milk, cold 
ham, tea, 
bread and 
butter. 


Roast beef, 
baked pota- 
toes, boiled 
peas, fruit 
tart. 


Tea, bread, 
butter, cake. 


Tinned sal- 
mon, sponge 
cake and cus- 
tard, bread 
and cheese. 


Monday . 


Porridge and 
milk, fried 
bacon (rest 
as above). 


Boiled mut- 
ton, pota- 
toes and 
greens, date 
pudding. 


Tea, etc., 
jam. 


Bean soup, 
macaroni 
pudding. 


Tuesday . 


Porridge and 
milk, fried 
bacon. 


Cottage pie, 
suet roll 
and jam. 


Tea, etc., 
cake. 


Fried liver, 
blanc-mange, 
stewed fruit. 


Wednesday . 


Porridge and 
milk, fried 
bacon. 


Stewed steak 
and onions, 
potatoes, 
boiled ginger 
pudding. 


Tea, etc., 
lettuce. 


Pea soup, 
boiled rice 
and jam. 


Thursday . 


Porridge and 
milk, cold 
ham. 


Roast mut- 
ton, boiled 
beans, bread 
pudding. 


Tea, bread, 
butter, and 
jam. 


Sausage or 
fish, bread 
and butter 
pudding. 


Friday . 


Porridge and 
milk, bacon. 


Boiled beef 
and vege- 
tables, 
potatoes, 
plum duff. 


Tea and cake. 


Lentil soup, 
baked lemon 
pudding. 


Saturday 


Porridge and 
milk, Find on 
haddock. 


Beef steak 
and kidney 
pie, boiled 
peas, milk 
pudding. 


Tea, etc., 
jam. 


Stewed kidney 
and maca- 
roni, blanc- 
mange, 
stewed fruit. 



388 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Directions for poor tubercular patients living at home, for 
instance, those attending out patients' departments at hospitals, 
etc. It is by no means easy efficiently to direct the dietetic 
treatment of tubercular people belonging to the working classes 
unless they are immediately under supervision, e.g. in an insti- 
tution. In our experience, the prescription of a definite diet 
to consumptive patients among the poorer classes is not satis- 
factory, as, for the most part, they have not the means at home 
of carrying out instructions at all accurately. 

We have obtained more satisfactory results in such cases 
after giving general directions, as under : 

"You require to take much more food than you did before 
you became consumptive. Do not hurry over your meals ; 
you will feel satisfied frequently before you have eaten enough, 
and you must continue to eat even when you do not want more 
food. Your appetite is no guide as to the amount you need. 
The best way to find out whether you are eating enough is to 
weigh yourself every week, always at the same time of day and 
in the same clothes. If you have not gained at least one pound 
during the week, you will know you have not been eating enough. 

" What food to buy and how to cook it. The following is 
intended to give you a rough idea as to how you can arrange 
your meals most satisfactorily, and the amounts of the various 
foods you require. 

; ' Breakfast. Half a pint of porridge with milk and sugar, a 
rasher of bacon or a herring, etc., a round of bread. Tea or coffee. 

" Dinner. Two large chops or a large plateful of meat, with 
plenty of potatoes. A teacupful of milk pudding, or a large 
slice of suet pudding, half a round of bread, and a glass of milk. 

" Tea. At least three rounds of bread and butter with jam, 
or, if you can afford it, other relish. 

" Supper. Half a pint of pea, bean, or lentil soup, or half a 
pint of porridge ; two rounds of bread, with sufficient cheese 
for both pieces ; and a glass of milk. 

" If you take this diet, you ought to gain at least a pound a 
week in weight, but if you do not, your best course is to take 
more milk until your weight increases. 




DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 389 

" The above diet should cost you about Qs. 6d. per week, but 
you will require to be careful as to what you buy, and the follow- 
ing notes will probably be of service to you in showing you how 
to spend your money to the greatest advantage. 

"Meat. If you cannot afford to buy English meat, buy the 
best foreign, which contains just as much nourishment and 
will not cost you more than 6d. per pound for the best joints. 
If you cannot afford to buy joints you must be content to buy 
' pieces.' Make full use of tripe, sausage, bullock's liver and 
kidney, which are cheap and nutritious, but do not waste money 
on veal and lamb. 

" Butter. Buy butter at Is. a pound if you can afford it, but 
if money is scarce buy good margarine instead, at Qd. or Sd. 

" Milk. You can always get new milk at l%d. or 2d. per pint, 
but if you cannot afford to buy much new milk, buy what you 
can afford and make up with separated milk, which will cost 
you Id. or l^d. per quart. 

" Cheese. Dutch cheese will cost you tyd. to 6%d., and Ameri- 
can Qd. or Id. Do not buy more expensive cheese, as you will 
get no more nourishment for the extra cost. 

" Eggs. Except during the early summer, eggs are always 
an expensive form of food, therefore do not spend more on them 
than you can help. 

" Oatmeal. Oatmeal is one of the very best and cheapest 
foods you can have. Buy coarse Scotch oatmeal, Provost or 
Quaker oats, and have a plateful of porridge every morning 
and, if you like it, occasionally at supper instead of the 
soup. 

" Dried peas, beans, and lentils. These, like oatmeal, are 
most valuable foods for you, and should be used every day either 
boiled as a vegetable for dinner or as a soup for supper. You 
can buy them at the grocer's ; the peas and haricot beans will 
cost you 2$d. per pound or pint, and the lentils 2d. 

" Potatoes. These are required every day, and you will save 
money if you buy at least a stone at a time. 

" Fish. Buy fish instead of meat occasionally for the sake 
of a change, either cod, plaice, herrings, bloaters, Findon or 
fresh haddocks, or whatever fish is in season and cheap. Tinned 



390 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

salmon at 5d. a tin is a cheap and nutritious food, and makes a 
good change for supper. 

" The following rough directions for cooking may be of use : 

" Porridge. Stir oatmeal gradually into boiling water, add 
a pinch of salt, and cook gently, stirring occasionally for an 
hour (Quaker and Provost oats take only 20 minutes to cook). 
Allow two teacupsful of water and two level tablespoonsful of 
oatmeal to each man. 

" Lentil, pea or bean soup. Soak the seeds in cold water over 
night. Boil gently in plenty of water until soft ; the cooked 
seeds may either be eaten as a vegetable, or they may be beaten 
to a fine paste, or, better still, rubbed through a sieve ; add a 
little of the liquid in which they were boiled, and a flavouring 
if required, to form a highly nutritious soup. Allow three level 
tablespoonsful of the raw seeds for each man. 

" Suet puddings. (1) Allow one level teaspoonful of dripping, 
three level tablespoonsful of flour, and a large pinch of baking 
powder per man. Mix the dripping thoroughly with the flour 
and baking powder. Make the whole into a paste with a little 
water, form into a roll, flour the surface, tie up tightly in a pud- 
ding cloth, and boil for 2 or 3 hours. Serve with syrup, gravy, 
or jam. 

" (2) Or the above paste may be rolled out flat, and jam or 
syrup spread upon it. Roll, fold in the ends, flour the surface, tie 
tightly in a cloth, and boil for 2 or 3 hours. 

" (3) Allow one level teaspoonful of dripping, three level 
tablespoonsful of flour, a large pinch of baking powder, and a 
little sugar and fruit for each man. The fruit may be either 
currants, figs, or dates chopped up finely, or raisins. Mix the 
flour and dripping and sugar, add the fruit and make into a 
paste with a little water, flour the surface, and tie tightly in a 
cloth ; boil 2 or 3 hours. Instead of the fruit, a little syrup 
and a pinch of ground ginger may be used in the above mixture. 

" Milk pudding. Allow for each person two level teaspoonsful 
of rice, sago, tapioca, etc., and two-thirds of a pint of milk 
and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Put the rice, sugar and 
milk, with a pinch of salt, into a pie-dish, and bake slowly 
in the oven for 2 or 3 hours." 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 391 

The above directions have stood the test of experience ; 
they have been given to patients and used by them, the results 
being carefully tested. The improvement in the state of the lungs 
and general health, gain in weight, etc., prove them (in most 
cases we have followed) to be most satisfactory. 



CONCENTRATED DIETS 

The maintenance of a high level of nutrition is of essential 
importance for the efficient treatment of tuberculosis, and 
inability on the part of a patient suffering from this disease to 
take a fairly generous diet, such as one of our standard dietaries, 
materially prejudices his chances of recovery. Anorexia is a 
very common symptom in tubercular patients. In some cases 
it is of small importance and requires no special treatment. Not 
infrequently, on the other hand, it requires the most careful 
dieting. 

Anorexia of a very marked character is often met with in 
patients suffering from early tuberculosis ; this anorexia has 
usually been of gradual onset and associated with progressive 
loss of strength and weight. The patient is anaemic and obvi- 
ously run down, and on inquiry is found to be taking a diet 
altogether inadequate for a person in ordinary health, much 
less for a person suffering from tuberculosis. 

Consumptives suffering from the earlier stages of the 
disease, especially those living under unfavourable hygienic 
conditions (for instance a clerk working in a badly venti- 
lated city office), very commonly have this anorexia of early 
tuberculosis. A certain amount of dyspepsia is sometimes 
associated with loss of appetite, but examination of the ali- 
mentary track shows that the digestive organs are perfectly 
normal. 

The treatment of this type of anorexia consists in placing 
the patient under good hygienic conditions and giving him a 
generous diet which he should be strongly encouraged to 
take, in spite of the absence of appetite. There are few things 
more striking than the immediate improvement in appetite 



392 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

which follows the removal of a patient suffering from early pul- 
monary tuberculosis from unfavourable conditions to a sana- 
torium. If the patient takes the generous diet, as advised, it 
is seldom that this course of treatment is not completely suc- 
cessful. 

Within a week of his arrival the patient usually has entirely 
regained his normal appetite, and indeed, if urged to do so, will 
eat enormously, an experience which many a sanatorium patient 
has unfortunately suffered from. 

A much more serious type of anorexia is that very often 
met with in patients suffering from active tuberculosis associated 
with pronounced constitutional disturbance, such as high fever, 
etc. A patient with a considerable amount of fever, whatever 
be its cause, rarely retains a normal appetite. In a large number 
of febrile diseases, especially in those running a short course, 
comparatively speaking, the normal diet of health can be appre- 
ciably reduced without disadvantage to the patient. In the 
case of tuberculosis this cannot be done ; at all costs, the patient's 
diet must be kept up to a high standard of nutritive value. 
The same principle holds good for another type of anorexia, 
commonly met with in tubercular patients, viz., the chronic 
loss of appetite associated with slowly progressive disease of 
long duration. Patients who suffer from long standing pro- 
gressive tuberculosis usually have their constitutions permanently 
damaged ; vascular and muscular tone are poor, and the ali- 
mentary track is generally impaired. This impairment, in our 
experience, is very largely atonic in character, the most pro- 
nounced symptoms being persistent loss of appetite, fulness 
and abdominal discomfort after meals with nausea and vomit- 
ing if large meals are taken. We have been interested to observe 
that stomach analyses and metabolic investigations in these 
cases show that digestion and absorption are almost invariably 
normal. 

The dietetic treatment of the anorexia of acute constitutional 
disturbance, and of the digestive impairment of disease of long 
standing are very similar. In the case of patients with acute 
symptoms, such as high fever, etc., it is a good practice to 
encourage the patient to make an effort to take an ordinary diet, 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 393 

such as one of our standard diets, and to remind him that 
his illness is likely to be a protracted one and that he 
must take a good supply of food daily if he wishes to get 
better. 

We have found that many patients with high fever, especi- 
ally those in whom the infection is of a recent date, and in whom 
the constitution has not been impaired, take an ordinary diet 
quite well and with most satisfactory clinical results. Our 
experience inclines us to think that the patients who manage 
to take an ordinary diet, for the most part, make more rapid 
progress. An ordinary diet, however, should not be continued 
if it gives rise to much dyspepsia, or if the patient, after some 
ten days' trial of it, takes an inordinate time over his meals. 
In a similar way, patients suffering from long standing chronic 
disease and who have marked anorexia and dyspepsia, can 
sometimes be persuaded to take an ordinary diet and do remark- 
ably well ; general health improves, and with this improvement 
the dyspepsia gradually disappears and appetite returns. Such 
a happy result is most likely to follow this treatment in the 
case of such patients who have just given up work and exchanged 
life in a town for the favourable conditions afforded by resi- 
dence in a sanatorium. To prescribe generous diets to the 
same class of patients who are still at work in a city, or who 
have already enjoyed the advantages of a sanatorium for some 
time, is much less likely to prove a success. Considerable judg- 
ment must be exercised in determining how long to urge the 
taking of ordinary diets despite the existence of loss of appetite 
and dyspepsia, both in the case of patients with acute and chronic 
disease ; gradually increasing anorexia and dyspepsia, and 
especially onset of nausea and vomiting, however, certainly 
indicate that the diet should be modified by way of concentrating 
it. 

In constructing what we term, for convenience, concentrated 
diets, we aim at two things. 

(1) To give the necessary nutritive value in an appreciably 
smaller bulk than that of our ordinary diets. 

(2) To give the diet generally in a more easily taken form, 
for which purpose the amount of solid food is diminished. 



394 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Method of concentration. The first thing to do is to diminish, 
or even to eliminate, the amount of food-stuffs which have 
little or no nutritive value, for instance, soups, potatoes, green 
vegetables, also the amounts of those food-stuffs which are 
somewhat bulky, for instance, porridge, pulses, bread and suet 
puddings. The nutritive value of the food-stuffs thus eliminated 
must be replaced by the inclusion of other food-stuffs which 
give the same nutritive value in a smaller bulk. To keep up 
the protein intake to the requisite standard, the milk should 
be " fortified," i.e. its nutritive value should be increased by 
the addition to it of a soluble casein preparation such as casu- 
men, plasmon and similar food-stuffs. This is easily done. 
It is also a very good thing to fortify milk puddings and soups 
in the same way. 

We find that as much as an ounce and a half of such a casein 
preparation, which represents some 32 grammes of protein, 
may be taken daily without giving rise to the slightest disturb- 
ance of the alimentary tract. The advantage of being able to 
increase the protein value of a diet by 30 grammes with so 
little trouble is obvious. 

Milk is altered in taste by the addition to it of a casein 
preparation so that patients usually prefer to take this food- 
stuff disguised in puddings, etc. Bread and biscuits fortified 
in the same way are also very useful, and can be bought 
ready prepared, for instance, as plasmon bread and plasmon 
biscuits. 

Another good method of keeping up the protein intake is 
by increasing the eggs in the diet, as egg-flip, for example, 
which can replace some of the plain milk. Protein also can be 
taken by some patients very well as raw meat given either in 
sandwiches or in milk. 

The calorie value of the diet can be conveniently maintained 
at the requisite level by the use of various food-stuffs. Cream, 
for instance, is very useful, and 5 oz. of cream can be readily 
given partly in the milk and partly with the puddings. Benger's 
food and similar starchy food preparations are also very 
useful. 

Dislike of sugar. A practical point to bear in mind is that 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 395 

patients with anorexia are mostly intolerant of sweet foods, 
and it is a good practice to reduce the amount of sugar contained 
in their food-stuffs by one-half. More or less unsweetened 
puddings will be well taken by febrile patients much longer 
than sweet puddings. 

Variety. Variety is always essential when diets of consider- 
able nutritive value have to be taken for a very long period. 
Plenty of variety is especially important in the dietetic treatment 
of patients with fever. Free use should be made of all the 
ordinary roast joints and meats, of poultry, game, etc., varied 
by made up dishes such as mince, hashes, stews, etc. ; sweetbreads 
and sausages also make a change. Puddings may be readily 
varied, so long as their ingredients are of a high nutritive value, 
such as egg, milk, cereals, bread, flour, etc. Blancmanges, 
cream, gelatine, junket, custards, etc., are very useful puddings 
with which to vary the diet. 

It is perhaps not out of place for us to say that the controlling 
of fever by the use of sponging or various antipyretic drugs, is 
often a very great aid in the dieting of patients with febrile 
anorexia. The reduction of temperature by some such methods 
in the course of the hour before meal, often sufficiently improves 
the condition of the patient, if only temporarily, to allow of his 
taking his food with much less difficulty. The prescription, 
also, of an ordinary bitter tonic half an hour before meals is 
often of considerable service in all types of anorexia. 

The following two dietaries which are examples of the con- 
centrated diets we are in the habit of prescribing will be found 
very useful. 

The first, which is our ordinary standard diet fortified 
and somewhat concentrated, is suitable for patients with a 
moderate degree of anorexia. The second is a more or less 
fluid diet and is suitable for patients with continuous high 
fever. 

These two diets are illustrative and show the principles 
upon which concentrated diets should be constructed ; to be 
thoroughly satisfactory they should be constantly varied, as 
patients with anorexia very soon tire of any food if continuously 
given in the same form. 



396 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

ANOREXIA DIET 1. 





Men. 


Women. 


Breakfast 
Milk 


1 pt. 


1 Pt. 


Tea or coffee (chiefly for flavour- 


Small quantity 


Small quantity 


Bacon, etc. ....... 


11 oz. 


H oz 


Ess 






Bread or toast 


2 oz. 


1J oz 


Butter 


i oz. 


i oz 


11 a.m. 
Milk and casein 


1 pt. 


1 nt 


Lunch 
Milk 


pt. 


1 Pt. 


Fish or entree 


2 oz. 


2 oz. 


Meat, fowl or game .... 
Potatoes, etc 


2 oz. 
Small amount 


2 oz. 
Small amount 


Bread or toast 


2 oz. 


1J oz. 


Butter 


J oz. 


i oz. 


Milk pudding, stewed fruit and 
custard, junkets, creams, etc. 
(perhaps containing casein) 

4 p.m. 
Tea, bread and butter, etc. . 

Dinner 
Milk 


Ordinary helping 

Small quantity 
if desired 

i nt. 


Ordinary helping 

Small quantity 
if desired 

1 nt 


Fish 


2 oz. 


2 oz 


Entree, fowl, game, etc. . 
Bread or toast 


2-3 oz. 
2 oz. 


2-3 oz. 
1J oz. 


Butter 


i OZ 


I OZ 


Light pudding, jellies, fruit, cus- 
tard, etc. (perhaps containing 
casein) 


Ordinary helping 


Ordinary helping 


Dessert 


Q.S. 


a s. 


Bedtime 
Milk and egg 


i pt. 


i pt. 









8 a.m. (on waking) 

9 a.m. Breakfast. 



11 a.m. 



ANOREXIA DIET 2. 
For Men or Women. 

Milk, J pt. 

Milk (with casein) made into tea or coffee, pt. 

Boiled bread and milk, $ pt. 

1 egg poached or scrambled on small piece of 

buttered toast. 
Benger's food with casein, J pt. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 397 

I p. in Milk, pt. 

Toast (or rusks) and butter, $ oz. 

Pounded chicken, etc. \ 

Steamed fish or raw meat -2 or 3 oz. 
sandwiches 

Thin custard, J pt. 

4 p.m Tea made with milk, J pt. 

6 p.m Milk, i pt. 

Fish or pounded chicken, etc., 2 or 3 oz. 

Toast (or rusks) and butter, J oz. 

Junket, light pudding, etc., 5 oz. 

p.m Benger's food with casein, | pt. 

During night .... Milk and egg (with or without alcohol), J pt. 

l oz. of casein should be worked into the diet daily and 5 oz. of cream 
added to the day's supply of milk. The nutritive value of this dietary is 
P. 175, F. 160, C.H. 200, Cals. 3,025. 

If the anorexia is very persistent and severe it is often advis- 
able to give the diet more often and in smaller amounts ; some- 
times, also, especially in the case of those who are very acutely 
ill, it is good practice to give some of the food during the night. 
The following is an example of a fluid diet given in small amounts 
fairly frequently. This diet which we have found in practice to 
be readily taken by patients who are very ill has a high nutritive 
value, viz., protein, 160; fat, 165; carbo-hydrate, 213; and 
calories, 3,063. 

FLUID DIET. 

8 a.m Milk, i pt. 

9 a.m Milk with casein (coffee for flavour), J pt. 

Bread and milk, pt. 

II a.m Benger with casein, J pt. 

1 p.m Milk with casein. Bovril, ^ pt. 

or 
Raw meat, milk. 

or 
Raw meat sandwiches, 2 oz. 

3 p.m Egg and milk or thin custard, pt. 

5 p.m Milk tea, $ pt. 

7 p.m Leube Rosenthal meat solution, J tin. 

or , 

Raw meat, milk, J pt. 

or 
Milk bovril, J pt. 

or 

Milk and arrowroot pancreatized, | pt. 
10 p.m Benger with casein, $ pt. 

4 a.m Milk and egg (with or without alcohol), $ pt. 



398 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



Laryngeal tuberculosis with dysphagia. The general principles 
which we have laid down for the dieting of tuberculosis generally 
apply to tuberculosis of the larynx. In disease of this organ, which 
is nearly always co-existent with tuberculosis of the lung, there 
is the same necessity for maintaining a high level of nutrition. 
The treatment of patients with laryngeal tuberculosis who have 
no difficulty in swallowing requires no special notice, but the 
existence of dysphagia calls for very special treatment. In many 
cases the dysphagia is of quite slight degree and far from being 
severe enough to prevent the patient taking an ordinary diet. 
In general terms it may be said that when a patient can take 
an ordinary diet without appreciable inconvenience, he should be 
advised to do so, as the taking of a generous diet is thus 
rendered much easier and will often bring about rapid im- 
provement in the laryngeal condition with loss of the pain on 
swallowing. In the case of such patients, however, it is a good 
plan to inquire whether there is any particular food-stuff which 
causes pain and if there is to omit the same from the diet. When 
the dysphagia is severe enough to prevent the patient taking 
an adequate diet in an ordinary form semi-solids or fluid diets 
must be relied upon until such time as improvement in the general 
condition and the condition of the larynx makes it possible to 
return again to ordinary diet. 

When semi-solids and fluid diets are prescribed considerable 
care must be exercised in the arrangement of the meals to ensure 
a sufficient amount of nutriment being taken. As a matter of 
experience, we have found that semi-solid diets are often taken 
more readily than fluid diets, the latter having more tendency 
to " go down the wrong way." This tendency can, however, be 
considerably lessened by the patient taking a fluid diet in the 
Norris-Wolfenden position. Another advantage of the semi- 
solid diet is that a high nutritive value can be given in this form 
in a good deal smaller bulk than in a fluid diet. The bulkiness. 
of a fluid diet is very apt to give rise to dyspepsia. 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 399 

Constant slight variations should be made in the diet whether 
fluids or semi-fluids are used, as patients soon tire of either 
of them. In practice, it is usually best to compromise between 
a semi-solid and a fluid diet or to alternate them. In no form of 
tubercular disease is there the same necessity for the constant 
close attention to dietetic detail as exists in these cases of laryngeal 
tuberculosis, and the secret of success in treating such cases lies 
in making a close study of every individual case, carefully see- 
ing what solid foods, if any, can be taken, building up the neces- 
sary diet round these food-stuffs, allowing the patient at the 
same time to indicate his own preferences and then varying 
the diet judiciously day by day. All food-stuffs should be given 
cold and very often if the fluids are iced they are taken more 
easily. Anything of an irritating nature, such as pepper and 
similar condiments, should be omitted. 

When the pain in swallowing is very severe it may be 
necessary to give food in small amounts every four, or three, 
or even two hours during the day. At all costs the taking of an 
adequate diet must be secured. There are several measures at 
our command which are often of the greatest assistance to these 
patients. The insufflation of the larynx with orthofonn or anas- 
thesin between meals will often allay pain sufficiently to allow of 
food being taken much more readily. The application, also, of 
cold to the larynx preferably by the use of a Leiter's laryngeal 
coil is often of distinct service in this respect. Again, taking 
the food when in the Norris-Wolfenden position, i.e. when lying 
on the side, the food, if liquid, being taken through a tube from a 
vessel placed slightly below the level of the mouth, or in the 
Wolfenden position, viz., the patient lying on his chest with 
the head somewhat dependent and taking the food in the same 
way, may help considerably. 

In the construction of diets for patients with dysphagia many 
of the concentrated foods which we have described in the article 
on the treatment of anorexia, etc., will be found very useful. 
Full use should be made of all the various foods from time to 
time, so as to get plenty of variety. The following examples 
of diets which we have used with satisfactory results may perhapa 
be of value as showing how they should be constructed. 



400 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

FLUID DIET SUITABLE FOB PATIENTS WITH DYSPHAGIA. 

8 a.m Thin Benger's food, 1 pt. 

10 a.m Egg, 1 ; milk, 5 oz. 

11 a.m Milk and sanatogen, or soluble casein prepara- 

tion, 1 pt. 

1 p.m Milk cocoa, 1 pt. 

3 p.m Junket, 1 pt. 

5 p.m Thin Benger's food, 1 pt. 

7 p.m Milk bovril, 1 pt. 

9 p.m Egg, 1 ; milk, 5 oz. 

10 p.m Thin Benger's food, 1 pt. 

During night .... Milk and sanatogen, etc., 1 pt. 

Total Benger's food, 3 pts. 

Milk and sanatogen, etc., 2 pts. 
Milk in other forms, 3 pts. 
Eggs, 2. 

Approximate nutritive value : Protein, 180; Fat, 210 ; Carbo-hydrate, 
280 ; Calorie value, 3,940. 

Dysphagia patients constantly fail to take the prescribed diet 
well at some time every day. As the nutritive value of the above 
diet is very considerable a certain amount of latitude may be 
allowed in this respect, and at the same time the patient should 
be encouraged to persevere with the full diet. 

The fluid diet mentioned in discussing the treatment of 
anorexia, etc., is also frequently suitable. 

SEMI-SOLID DIET SUITABLE FOR PATIENTS WITH DYSPHAGIA. 

7 a.m Egg and milk, 1 pt. 

9 a.m Arrowroot or cornflour milk, or typhoid bread 

and milk, 1 pt. 

1 1 a.m Gelatin blancmange or cream (flavoured). 

1 p.m Steamed fillets of fish, or 4 eggs scrambled 

with 1 oz. butter. 

3 p.m Junket and cream, 1 pt. 

5 p.m Milk and raw meat juice, 1 pt. 

7 p.m Velvet soup, 1 pt. 

During night .... Benger's food or milk, cocoa etc., 1 pt. 

Approximate nutritive value : Protein, 164 ; Fat, 210 ; Carbo- 
hydrate, 220 ; Cals., 3,013. 

Haemoptysis. It is very difficult to dissociate the dietetic 
treatment of haemoptysis from the general treatment of this 
complication. The dietetic treatment of haemoptysis varies 
very considerably with the cause and severity of the bleeding 
and the condition of the patient. 

It must be remembered that haemoptysis may be any- 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 401 

thing between slight discolortaion of the sputum to a loss 
of blood amounting to several pints. Slight discoloration of 
the sputum is by no means uncommon among consumptives 
and is probably the result of some local congestion. Such 
cases rapidly clear up if kept at rest for a day or two and 
usually require no special dietetic treatment. If, however, the 
discoloration continues or if the bleeding is from the commence- 
ment rather more marked it is desirable to restrict the diet 
somewhat particularly in the amount of fluid taken, in order to 
reduce blood pressure to some extent. This is easily accom- 
plished by cutting off all tea, coffee, etc., reducing the amount 
of milk taken to 1 pint a day, and for a day or two reducing the 
amount of solid food taken to a slight extent. 

In the case of severe haemoptysis, due probably to the erosion 
of a blood vessel or the rupture of a pulmonary aneurism, the 
indication is to reduce blood pressure as quickly as possible and 
to maintain it at a low level for some days after all bleeding has 
ceased. For this purpose the diet should be small in bulk and 
should contain but very little fluid. For the first 24 hours after 
a severe haemorrhage little or no food should be given, milk in 
small amount, 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls at a time, being allowed to allay 
thirst more than for any other purpose. Milk should be iced 
and the mouth should be washed out at intervals with iced water, 
or small lumps of ice may be given to suck. Such patients suffer 
a great deal from thirst, especially if they are treated by free 
purgation with salts ; ice relieves the thirst better than any- 
thing else, but care must be taken that the patient does not 
swallow a considerable quantity of fluid in this way. 

During the next few days the diet should be small in amount, 
unstimulating, and should not contain an excessive amount of 
fluid ; 1 pints of milk, and 3 or 4 oz. of toast and butter, and an 
egg or shredded meat sandwiches will be ample and should be 
taken cold and in small quantities at a time. 

The diet should be increased on the third or fourth day after 
the attack and the original diet may in most' cases be resumed 
in ten days' time. The following diet which was taken by a patient 
with haemoptysis on the fourth day after the attack is a good 
example of the kind of diet we prescribe. 

86 



402 

. 8 a.ra One egg beaten up \vith milk, 1 oz. 

Toast, 1 oz., buttered. 

'10 a.m Raw meat sandwich, bread, 1 oz. ; meat, 1 oz. ; 

butter. 

12 noon Custard pudding, 3 oz. - 

,2 p.m Benger's food, 3 oz. 

-4 p.m Pounded chicken or fish, 3 oz. 

Bread or potatoes, 1 oz. 

6 p.m Milk and casumen, 2 oz. 

Toast, 1 oz., buttered. 

'S p.m Poached egg on toast. 

10 p.m Junket, custard, 3 oz. 

2 a.m Benger's food, 3 oz. 

4 a.m Milk and casumen, 4 oz. 

Such a dietary is easily taken, has a very fair nutritive value, 
and is small in bulk. If the patient's condition is satisfactory 
it is advisable to continue the use of a diet of this kind, but 
gradually increasing the amount and the intervals for giving 
food, until the sputum is clear, at which date an ordinary diet can 
usually be safely resumed. Throughout the week or ten days 
following the haemoptysis, and prior to the clearing up of the 
sputum, a careful watch should be kept upon the blood pressure, 
which can be controlled to a very considerable extent by careful 
dieting and the exhibition of saline purgatives. With a satis- 
factory low blood pressure the diet can often be gradually approxi- 
mated to the normal diet before the sputum has completely 
cleared. Where there is much exhaustion or high fever a few days 
after the haemoptysis, it is wiser to increase the diet more rapidly, 
controlling the blood pressure as much as possible in other 
ways. In patients who have a succession of haemorrhages, the 
dietetic indications are very similar, viz., the strength of the 
patient must be maintained at all costs, but at the same time 
the pulse rate and the blood pressure should be controlled 
as far as possible. It is impossible to lay down more precise 
instructions in the dietetic treatment for such cases. 

Tuberculosis of the intestines. The special indications in 
the treatment of this condition are : 

1. To prevent irritation of the diseased area. 

2. To prevent excessive peristalsis. 

To fulfil these conditions the diet must be composed of food- 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 403 

stuffs which are fairly completely absorbed and leave only a small 
amount of unirritating residue ; the total bulk of food taken 
must be small and the diet fairly dry. 

The following food-stuffs are of service in this condition : 

Raw meat either in milk or better still in sandwiches ; raw 
meat is very readily absorbed and leaves little residue. 

Underdone meat is suitable for the same reasons. Well done 
meat should be avoided as irritating fragments are apt to be left 
undigested. 

Leube-Rosenthal meat solution is a very useful food-stuff 
in these cases ; half a tin may be given daily in addition to other 
meat. 

Milk. Milk should not be given in excessive amount as the 
hard curd which is frequently formed unless the milk has been 
specially prepared is apt to irritate. It is better to give a con- 
siderable proportion in the form of Benger's food which, when 
prepared, is partially digested and incapable of producing a hard 
curd ; or the milk may be pancreatized. 

Eggs are most useful and should be used freely. 

Cheese is a suitable food-stuff if carefully dissolved and the 
free acid neutralized by the aid of bicarbonate of soda ; the 
solution can then be used in the preparation of various savoury 
dishes. 

Butter and cream should be given freely in place of much of 
the carbo-hydrate of the ordinary diet. 

Bread is best taken toasted and plain biscuits may be given 
with advantage. 

Most puddings, particularly the custards, blancmanges, creams 
and some milk puddings will be found satisfactory. 

The following food-stuffs should be avoided : 

Porridge, soups, potatoes, green vegetables and fruit (except 
in very small amounts), tea and coffee (except for flavouring). 
Casein preparations tend to set up diarrhosa and should be used 
very carefully. 

Finally, food should be given in small quantity at fairly short 
intervals in the majority of cases. 

The following dietary may be found useful and serves to 
illustrate the main points. 



404 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

g a-rn Two eggs scrambled. 

Steamed fillet of fish, 2 oz. 
Toast, 2 oz. 
Butter, i oz. 
Milk coffee, pt. 
11 a.m. .... Leube-Rosenthal meat solution. 

j p m Underdone meat (minced), 3 oz., or raw meat 

sandwiches. 

Toast and biscuit, 2 oz., butter, | oz. 
Blancmange, milk pudding, etc., 5 oz., with 

cream, 2J oz. 
Tumbler of milk. 

4 p.m Milk tea, \ pt. (or Benger's food). 

Toast, 2 oz. 
Butter, oz., egg. 

7.30 p.m Steamed fish, 2 oz. 

Underdone meat, 3 oz. 
Toast, 2 oz. 
Butter, \ oz. 

Sweet pudding, 5 oz., with cream, 2J oz., 
or cheese custard. 

10 p.m Benger's food, \ pt., or Leube-Rosenthal meat 

solution. 

Approximate nutritive value of above dietary : Protein, 163 ; Fat, 165 ; 
Carbo-hydrate, 220 ; Calories, 3,100. 



SUPERVISION OF PATIENTS' DIETS 

It is a very important matter, in the treatment of tuber- 
culosis, to make sure that the diet prescribed for any patient 
is taken properly. When insisting that a patient should 
eat the whole amount of food ordered for him, it is absolutely 
essential that the diet be most carefully constructed. Un- 
doubtedly diets are often prescribed which are obviously too 
large, on the principle that the patient will certainly leave 
some of the food. This is a very unsatisfactory method of trying 
to make sure that a patient takes an adequate diet ; at the best, 
it is quite haphazard, and, indeed, often fails in its object. 
It is clearly far more satisfactory to work out very carefully the 
necessary diet ; the physician can then with confidence urge 
upon the patient the necessity for taking it all. As a matter 
of fact, the necessary diet is by no means a big one, and can be 
readily taken by the ordinary patient, whereas the sight of a very 
large diet disheartens him. In sanatorium practice, it is best to 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 405 

practise those people who serve the prescribed meals in determin- 
ing the weights of various food-stuffs. If the meals are weighed 
regularly for a little time, the eye gets very well trained to various 
weights, and diets of definite nutritive values can thus be readily 
given as prescribed. In private practice, we advise patients to 
buy a light pair of French scales and, at first, to weigh out the 
various food-stuffs, as prescribed, very carefully. After a little 
practice, patients become sufficiently experienced to guess the 
amounts with quite sufficient accuracy to ensure the taking of 
the prescribed amounts. If patients are in the habit of leaving 
a material amount of their meals, what is left should also be 
weighed and recorded by some responsible person. The mere 
fact that such a record is kept, is often a very wholesome 
stimulus to the patient. 



DIRECTIONS FOR THE PREPARATION OF CERTAIN FOODS 

USEFUL IN THE TREATMENT OF ANOREXIA, HIGH 

FEVER, DYSPHAGIA, ETC. 

Milk Bovril. 

Milk may be completely disguised by making " Invalid 
Bovril," or other meat extract preparation, as directed upon 
the bottles, but using boiling milk instead of water. 

Milk Tea. 

Place several teaspoonfuls of tea in a hot jug and pour upon 
them three or four tablespoonfuls of boiling water ; stand three 
minutes and add a pint of boiling milk ; stand another minute 
and then strain off the leaves and serve. 

Milk fortified with sugar of milk is too sweet for the liking of 
most tuberculous patients, but the carbo-hydrates may be in- 
creased considerably by fortifying with starch. 

Milk fortified with Starch. 

Ingredients : Milk, 1 pint, cornflour, arrowroot or farina, 
2 oz., Benger's liquor pancreaticus, 1 teaspoonful. 

Mix the cornflour into a thin paste with a little milk, boil 



406 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the rest of the milk and pour it upon the mixed cornflour, stirring 
continually until the whole mass thickens. Now add the liquor 
pancreaticus, stirring continually until the preparation is as 
thin as ordinary milk, which should occur in 1 or 2 minutes. 
The preparation is immediately boiled to prevent further change 
occurring. Essence of lemon, etc., tea, coffee, bovril, etc., may 
be used for flavouring. 

Milk fortified with Casumen or other Soluble Casein. 

Ingredients : Milk, 1 pint, 3 tablespoonfuls ( oz.) moderately 
heaped of casumen. 

Mix the casumen with the milk by dredging the powder into 
the milk while stirring and bring to boiling point, stirring vigor- 
ously all the time to prevent " burning." 

It is possible to get double this amount of casumen into 
solution but this process requires more care. 

This fortified milk may be used for the preparation of the 
cornflour above mentioned or the milk may be flavoured with 
tea, coffee, cocoa, bovril, Benger's food, etc., or may be taken 
as it is. 

Milk fortified with Casein. 

The most palatable result is obtained by adding dilute HC1 
to 1 pint of separated milk in sufficient amount to precipitate 
the casein ; then strain through muslin and wash well to free the 
precipitate from lactose and acid. Dissolve in the required 
amount of new milk (1 or 2 pints) with the aid of a small 
qua-ntity of soda bicarbonate and warmth. 

Meat Juice with Milk. 

Ingredients : Ib. rump steak or fillet of beef free from fat, 
1 pint of milk, bovril or Brand's essence to flavour. 

Pass the steak through a fine mincing machine or scrape very 
finely, this gives 7 oz. of meat pulp. Mix thoroughly with the 
milk and pass through a fine strainer or muslin, not a hair sieve. 
This should yield about a pint of fluid of the consistency of cream. 
Half a teaspoonful of bovril or some Brand's essence may be 
used for flavouring. Care should be taken to squeeze as mujch 



DIET IN TUBERCULOSIS 407 

meat pulp as possible through the strainer. The preparation 
may be warmed by standing in a vessel of hot water, but excessive 
heating causes coagulation. 

Meat Solution. 

Leube-Rosenthal meat solution, to be obtained of Messrs. 
Poths and Co., of 4, Berry Court, St. Mary Axe, E.G., at 20. 
per doz. Ib. tins. 

Two or three teaspoonfuls should be stirred with a very little 
hot water in a wineglass and the glass filled with Burgundy or 
port according to medical direction. The preparation may be 
served at any desired temperature. Half a tin of this solution 
may be taken daily. 

Raw Meat Sandwiches. 

Scrape finely a sufficient amount of fillet of beef, pound it 
in a mortar, adding pepper, salt and any flavouring such as bovril 
or some sauce. Cut very thin bread and butter and make as 
thick a sandwich as possible. One oz. of bread should be suffi- 
cient for 1J-2 oz. of meat and | oz. of butter. 

Albumin Water. 

Beat up the whites of two eggs without making froth, add 
14 oz. of water and \ glass of sherry. Flavour with lemon and 
essence of lemon. A few crystals of citric acid may be added 
if the patient suffers greatly from thirst. Sugar, etc., to taste. 
Put the fluid into a Sparklet syphon and aerate. This is- 
useful when high fever is present. 

Artificial Koumiss. 

Ingredients : 3 quarts skimmed milk, 1 quart buttermilk, 6 oz. 
sugar. A small amount of yeast is occasionally required. 

Keep at a temperature of 80 Fah. until separation com- 
mences, then bottle in Sparklet syphon. 

Milk may be still further fortified with cream to the extent 
of 2 oz. of single cream to the pint without making the milk too 
rich. This is useful when vomiting is very persistent. 



408 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The following preparations are specially useful in dysphagia. 

1. Custards. Heat pint of milk and add 2 beaten up eggs 
and stir until thick. The milk used may contain milk casein 
at the rate of 1 tablespoonful to the pint or may have been pre- 
viously flavoured with meat extract, e.g. invalid bovril, in which 
case a savoury custard results. 

2. Cheese custard. Dissolve 2 oz. of old cheese grated in 
\ pint of milk with the aid of a pinch of bicarbonate of soda and 
gentle heat. Make into a custard with eggs in the usual way 
and bake. 

3. Velvet soup. Clear soup or stock (without salt) containing 
a tablespoonful of casumen to the pint, should have one or two 
beaten eggs stirred in when very hot immediately before serving. 

4. Steamed fish. Place a few scraps of butter on a fillet of 
fish, cover with grease paper and cook between two plates for 
15 to 20 minutes. Fish so treated is practically a semi-solid. 

5. Scrambled eggs. Use four eggs and \ oz. of butter for 
each meal. 

6. Creams and blancmanges made with gelatin are much 
better taken by patients with dysphagia than those thickened 
with farinaceous materials. 

7. One third of an oz. of gelatin will thicken milk sufficiently to 
make it possible for the patient to take it satisfactorily when 
plain milk can only be taken with great pain. 

8. Egg and milk is sometimes more easily taken if slightly 
thickened with gelatin. 

9. Benger's food may be made of any degree of consistency, 
while milk fortified with casein may be used instead of plain milk. 

10. Junket is frequently well taken but should be prepared 
shortly before it is required. 

11. Typhoid bread and milk is frequently appreciated by 
patients. Boil half a round of bread without crust in half a pint 
of milk for 10 minutes, strain through fine muslin and serve. 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM AND 
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 



CHAPTER XII 

DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM AND RHEUMA- 
TOID ARTHRITIS 

BY ARTHUR P. LUFF, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

DIET IN GOUT 

General principles. No hard-and-fast lines as to dietary can 
be laid down in the treatment of gout. Each individual 
must be carefully considered as regards his habit of body, 
his capacity for the digestion of different articles of food, the 
amount of exercise he is able to take, and the nature of his work. 
Derangements of the gastro-intestinal tract constitute a most 
important factor in the development of acute, chronic and irregu- 
lar gout ; in all forms of gout, whether regular or irregular, there 
is one invariable symptom, viz., digestive disturbance. It is, 
therefore, of the utmost importance to secure and maintain a 
healthy condition of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, 
and a normal daily evacuation, in order to guard against auto- 
intoxication, which is undoubtedly an early factor in the develop- 
ment of the gouty condition. The individual who is subject to 
gouty attacks can certainly diminish the number and severity 
of the attacks, and in many cases can prevent their recurrence, 
by careful attention to diet, to the quality and the quantity of 
fluid taken, to exercise, and to a sufficient daily action of the 
bowels. 

Gouty people may for the purposes of the consideration of 
diet be roughly grouped into three classes : 

(1) Those who suffer from more or less frequent attacks of 
acute gout ; (2) those who have never suffered from an acute 
attack, but who are constantly subject to some chronic form 
of regular or irregular gout, especially after slight indiscretion 
in diet ; and (3) those who are only affected with gouty symptoms 
(generally of the irregular kind) when they eat or drink certain 

411 



412 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

articles, and who therefore in order to avoid these gouty symptoms 
have to be specially watchful over their diet. As Mouillot has 
observed, it will usually be found that patients in classes 2 and 3 
are the offspring of those who have suffered from acute gout. 

In advising as to the diet of any particular gouty individual 
the personal factor is a most important one to consider, and 
it is wise to gain some knowledge as to the likes and dislikes of 
the individual with regard to food. In this connexion it is well 
to remember the saying of Sydenham, that " more importance 
is to be attached to the desires and feelings of the patient, 
provided they are not excessive, than to doubtful and fallacious 
rules of medical art." 

It is well known that the excessive consumption of rich nitro- 
genous food, combined with excesses in wine and malt-liquors, 
both induces and excites gout. The comparative immunity 
of females and young people from gout is mainly explained 
by the absence of such determining causes of the gouty attack, 
combined, in the case of young people, with the absence of pre- 
disposing cause, and also with the fact that the secreting functions 
are in full activity. The subjects of gout are generally persons 
who live well and consume a large amount of animal food. Budd, 
speaking from a long and extensive professional connexion 
with a large rural district, states that he never knew an instance 
of gout occurring in an agricultural labourer. 

Digestibility of food. Gout, which is a toxaemia originating 
to a great extent in the alimentary tract, derives its toxic products 
from the improper digestion of food-stuffs. Whatever articles 
of food can be properly digested by the gouty, are therefore 
suitable articles for their dietary. The physical condition of 
an article of food to a very great extent determines its digestibility. 
By digestibility is meant not necessarily the extent to which 
it is absorbed into the blood, but the power of disposing of the 
food by the stomach, without the production of discomfort or 
pain. The digestibility of the various kinds of fish, and of the 
flesh of birds and animals, depends on the length of the muscular 
fibres, and on the amount of fat deposited between the fibres. 
The shorter the fibres, and the smaller the amount of fat deposited 
between them, the more digestible will the article of food be. 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 413 

If an article of food tends to be swallowed in a solid lump, such 
for instance as new bread or new potatoes, so as to prevent the 
ready permeation of the substance by the digestive juices, it 
tends to be indigestible purely by virtue of its physical condition. 
If such article were first reduced to minute subdivision by thorough 
mastication and insalivation, its indigestibility, as far as ordinary 
individuals are concerned, would disappear. 

It is not so much a matter of importance to know "whether 
any particular article of food contains uric acid or its antecedents 
or not, as it is to know what its properties are as regards digestibi- 
lity and as regards its influence on the processes which are con- 
cerned in the conversion of food-stuffs into body-stuffs. The 
researches of Pawlow have shown that the food value of any 
particular article of diet must depend to a large extent upon the 
amount of energy necessary for its digestion. 

If gouty persons partake of meals of too complex a character, 
then, owing to the abnormal intestinal and hepatic metabolism 
of such subjects, excessive production and imperfect elimination 
of toxic products may result. Although both excessive produc- 
tion and imperfect elimination of these abnormal products of 
digestion go more or less together, yet it is a matter of fairly 
frequent observation that some gouty persons seem to be specially 
the victims of excessive production of toxic products, and others 
to be mainly affected by defective elimination. 

In regulating diet it is very important to bear in mind that 
it is in many cases not advisable to change too suddenly the 
diet to which the patient is accustomed. The composition of 
the various digestive secretions is adapted to the food they 
have to digest, so that the individual who habitually eats an 
excess of protein in time comes to have gastric and pancreatic 
secretions which will digest protein well, and if the carbo-hydrates 
of the food have been limited he will also have a limited capacity 
for their digestion ; so that if a sudden change of diet is ordered, 
it takes a little time for the constituents of the digestive secretions 
to adapt themselves to the altered food, and in the meantime 
the patient may feel worse for the change of diet which will ultim- 
ately benefit him. The diet suitable to any patient will depend 
on the digestive capability of that patient, and should be regulated 



414 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

accordingly ; it is important to remember to treat the individual 
as well as the disease. 

Maintenance of a healthy alimentary tract. If, as is probably 
the case, the toxin or toxins of gout are produced in the intestinal 
tract, it is obvious that the first efforts at treatment should be 
directed to obtaining a healthy alimentary tract, and to modifying 
those habits of living which have caused gastro-intestinal derange- 
ment. 

Before deciding how these objects can be obtained, it is 
first necessary shortly to consider some points in the digestive 
processes which take place in the small intestine. Under normal 
conditions bacterial decomposition does not take place in the 
upper part of the small intestine, as the duodenum and upper 
portion of the jejunum are practically sterile. The conditions 
which favour increased bacterial growth in the intestine are (1) 
increase in the amount of protein food (the number of bacteria 
in the intestine varying directly with the amount of protein 
food), and (2) the reaction of the intestinal contents. As long 
as the contents are acid, bacterial growth is inhibited, but when, 
owing to gastric or intestinal dyspepsia, the intestinal secretion 
is changed, the reaction of the intestinal contents changes, and 
great increase in the number of intestinal bacteria takes place, 
while at the same time their pathogenicity is increased. There- 
fore, the growth of bacteria in the intestinal tract and their 
pathogenicity will vary directly with the amount of protein food 
and the amount of catarrh present. 

These facts obviously have a great bearing on the treatment 
of gout, and explain how it is that excess of protein food, and 
those forms of alcohol which tend to produce intestinal catarrh, 
have such a strong influence on the production of gout. 

As regards the amounts of protein, fat, and carbo-hydrate 
that the ordinary individual of average body weight needs during 
the twenty -four hours to satisfy the normal nutritive requirements 
of the body, it may be answered in a general way that he requires 
enough of these food-stuffs to establish physiological and nitrogen 
equilibrium sufficient to keep up that strength of body and mind 
that is essential to good health, to maintain the highest degree 
of physical and mental activity with the smallest amount of 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 415 

friction and the least expenditure of energy, and to preserve and 
heighten if possible the ordinary resistance of the body to disease 
germs. Chittenden's opinion is that the smallest amount of 
food that will accomplish these ends is the ideal diet. There 
must be enough to supply the true needs of the body, but any 
surplus over and above what is really called for may in the long 
run prove an undesirable addition. It is therefore necessary to 
have definite and concise knowledge of the amount of protein, 
and the total calorific value needed by the body to maintain the 
latter in the highest state of efficiency, before any very exact 
estimate of what constitutes over-nutrition or under-nutrition 
can be found. 

It must be understood that no diet contains an adequate 
amount of protein food that does not keep up a condition of 
nitrogenous equilibrium. If the nitrogen output persistently 
exceeds the nitrogen intake, it is obvious that the body is feeding 
on its own tissue, which means that the protein of the food is 
insufficient in amount. On the other hand, a diet that suffices 
to maintain body weight, with establishment of nitrogen equili- 
brium should, so far as our present knowledge goes, be quite ade- 
quate to meet all the wants of the body for protein matter. 

Chittenden considers that the daily consumption of protein 
food, far beyond the amount required to maintain health, strength, 
mental and physical vigour, body weight, and nitrogen equilibrium, 
constitutes a form of over-nutrition as serious in its menace to 
the health and welfare of the human race as many other evils 
more striking in character. He believes that there are more 
people suffering to-day from over-eating and over-nutrition, 
than from the effects of alcoholic drink. He maintains that if 
people, as shown by experiments, can maintain nitrogen equili- 
brium and body weight, gain in strength, show greater freedom 
from muscular fatigue, lose their rheumatic and gouty symptoms, 
regain a smooth and soft skin, exhibit greater freedom from colds, 
retain the normal haemoglobin content of their blood, and in 
every recognizable way manifest a good condition of health 
on a low protein diet, there should be no hesitation in accepting 
the teaching which the scientific data point to. Chittenden's 
experiments show that it is quite possible to maintain body 



416 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

weight, and keep up nitrogen equilibrium and preserve strength, 
vigour, and good health on from 34 grammes to 56 grammes of 
protein matter per day. My own experience is that, on a diet 
containing this amount of protein, gouty persons maintain their 
nitrogen equilibrium and body weight, become free from most 
of their gouty symptoms, and generally enjoy a good condition 
of health. 

Animal food. As regards the question of meat, it must be 
remembered on the one hand that animal foods constitute to 
the majority of people the most attractive and appetizing forms 
of diet, and are therefore likely to be taken in excess ; hence the 
necessity for limiting the amount to be taken. But, on the 
other hand, it must be borne in mind that it is most desirable to 
increase the combustion and the oxidative powers within the 
tissues. In my opinion it is absolutely erroneous to exclude 
from the dietary of the gouty such articles as meat, fish, and 
tea, because they are assumed to contain uric acid. 

The so-called estimations of uric acid in those articles of diet 
are not, as I have elsewhere pointed out, estimations of uric acid 
at all. Moreover, the deduction is an erroneous one that because 
uric acid is a nitrogenous body, it must therefore be directly 
derived from nitrogenous constituents of the food, the con- 
sumption of which must consequently be avoided. 

The contention that a meat diet is poisonous to the human 
body, on account of the uric acid that it contains, or produces, 
is preposterous, in view of the facts that many races have main- 
tained robust health on such a diet, and that, for centuries, 
the beef -eating Englishmen have managed to spread and advance 
knowledge and civilization, and to acquire territory in all parts 
of the world. Surely, if meat is the poison which a certain 
class of enthusiasts and fanatics maintain it to be, we as a nation 
should have ceased to exist long ere this. Harry Campbell, 
in his interesting series of articles on " The Evolution of Man's 
Diet," has shown that man has evolved from the ape on a highly 
animalized diet, and that it was on such a diet that the intellectual 
faculties, and the faculty of language, which distinguish him 
from the beast, were developed. It is interesting to note that 
the recent remarkable advance of the Japanese to the position 




DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 417 

of a first-class power amongst the nations is concurrent with 
the adoption of a more animalized diet by them. The fact that 
many races in the past have been largely carnivorous as regards 
their diet, and that some are so even at the present time (Esqui- 
maux, Andamanese, etc.) shows that the assumption that animal 
foods are necessarily poisonous to man is an entirely erroneous 
one. No class of food-stuff gives so great an amount of energy 
and produces so much heat as animal food, and no class is more 
easily digested by the majority of gouty people. On the other 
hand, the tendency with most people in this country, as I shall 
have occasion to remark later on, is to eat too much, and to 
masticate too little, and this applies not only to the consumption 
of meat, but of all other solid articles of diet. 

On the whole, it may be stated that animal food, such as 
fish, chicken, game and meat, is best suited to the majority of 
gouty cases, whilst foods of the farinaceous class are most likely 
to disagree. White meats, such as chicken and fish, are more 
digestible than red meats. The quantity of meat, and especially 
of red meat, must be restricted in those cases in which the kidneys 
are imperfectly performing their eliminating functions, as evi- 
denced by a pale urine, of low specific gravity, and deficient in 
urea and purin-bases. 

Purin-free diet. A purin-free diet is one selected from milk, 
cheese, butter, white bread, cereal foods, nuts, and fruit. Milk 
suits gouty people very well, and milk has a special effect in 
reducing the number of intestinal bacteria, their number being 
less with a milk diet than with any other. 

It is true that a purin-free diet has proved of benefit in certain 
cases of disease, but there is every reason to believe that in 
such cases an equal benefit would be obtained by a mixed 
diet, in which the protein consumption is kept down to a 
minimum. So long as temperance in the ingestion of protein 
is observed, it matters but little from what source the protein 
is derived. 

From Walker Hall's experiments it would appear reasonable 
to administer sweetbread to gouty patients, since its nuclein 
portion is only slightly absorbed, for thymus sweetbread contains 
principally adenin, which is rapidly excreted, and pancreas 

27 



418 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

sweetbread contains mainly guanin, an amino-purin incapable 
of increasing the urinary purin output and of exerting any 
injurious effects upon the tissues. 

Vegetable food. A fair proportion of vegetable food should 
be taken with two meals each day. The choice of vegetables 
will depend upon the digestive capacity of the patient ; but 
excepting the potato, as a rule those vegetables that grow above 
ground are preferable to root-vegetables. Whereas the mineral 
constituents of meat exercise a marked effect in diminishing 
the solubility of a gouty deposit, the mineral constituents of 
most vegetables exercise a marked power in increasing its solubil- 
ity. The vegetables, the mineral constituents of which I find 
are most efficacious in this respect, are spinach, Brussels sprouts, 
potatoes, cabbage, and French beans. At the same time, it 
must be borne in mind that with certain patients some of these 
vegetables may tend to produce some form of dyspepsia ; and 
I cannot too strongly urge that in the dieting of the gouty no hard- 
and-fast rules can be laid down, but the idiosyncrasy of each 
patient to various articles of diet must be made the subject of 
careful observation and study. Due consideration should also 
be given to the patient's experience of what articles of diet 
disagree with him. 

Starchy and saccharine foods. A diet that too largely consists 
of bread and starchy material leads to gravel in a number of 
cases. The frequency of uric acid gravel and stone among the 
rice-fed Hindoos is well known. 

Starchy articles of food should be especially limited in amount 
in those gouty individuals who are subject to gastric hyperacidity 
(hyperchlorhydria). This condition is not due to gastric fermenta- 
tion, but to an excessive secretion of hydrochloric acid by the 
gastric glands, and is a common cause of dyspepsia, and ultimately 
of gastric dilatation. It is due to an acid dyscrasia, as the result 
of which the secretion of gastric juice does not cease with the 
digestion of the protein materials of the food, but continues 
after they have been disposed of. The result is that a considerable 
portion of the starchy materials is kept back in the stomach, 
and this retained starch keeps up the gastric secretion, without 
at the same time giving it any work to do. 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 419 

When intestinal fermentation and putrefaction occur, as 
evidenced by a sense of discomfort after a meal, I attach great 
importance to the reduction of the starchy articles of food, but 
not to the total exclusion of, what I believe to be comparatively 
harmless, the potato. It is remarkable how frequently one hears 
from gouty patients the emphatic statement, " I never eat pota- 
toes." I must confess that I do not know of any good and suffi- 
cient reason for this wholesale condemnation of this common 
article of diet. Undoubtedly amongst those gouty patients 
who suffer from inability to digest starchy articles of diet hi 
other words, who suffer from amylaceous dyspepsia a reduction 
for the time in the amount of starchy foods taken, including 
potatoes, is desirable ; but the recognition of the existence of 
amylaceous dyspepsia is a fairly easy matter, and when present 
it can be suitably treated. Certainly those who are gouty and 
fat should be very sparing in the use of potatoes, as of other 
carbo-hydrate forms of food. I wish, however, to protest against 
the too general exclusion from the food of the gouty of so common 
and useful an article of diet as the potato. The best form in 
which potatoes can be taken by the gouty is the crisp form, which 
requires thorough mastication and insalivation. Boiled new 
potatoes should be absolutely interdicted to the gouty. 

Equally wrong, in my opinion, is the total exclusion of sugar 
from the dietary of all gouty individuals. Undoubtedly in 
certain individuals sugar may do harm, as in the cases of gouty 
persons who are fat, or who suffer from glycosuria, or who are 
prone to attacks of eczema ; and in such it should be cut off ; 
but that is no reason for the exclusion of it from the dietary of 
all gouty patients. I know of many gouty individuals who 
take sugar with absolute impunity. Some gouty subjects undoubt- 
edly digest very badly all starchy articles of diet, and in such 
fats may well take the place of starches. Fat bacon, properly 
cooked, is generally well digested by gouty individuals. 

Subjects who are both gouty and fat should avoid sugar, 
but undoubtedly sugar may be taken with advantage by those 
who are gouty and thin, and such subjects may also take in 
moderation marmalade and wholesome jams. Bread may advan- 
tageously be given as crisp toast, or in the form of rusks, or in 



420 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the " Zwieback " or twice-baked form, as in these conditions 
it requires thorough mastication and insalivation. 

In those cases in which it is desirable to reduce the carbo-hy- 
drate intake such restriction may be achieved : (1) By cutting 
off sugar, and all articles containing any form of sugar ; (2) 
by carefully graduating (by weight) the daily intake of starch- 
containing foods, so as to attain the minimum consistent with 
adequate nutrition in each individual case ; (3) by similarly 
graduating the intake of fats if necessary ; and (4) by throwing 
the onus of nutrition to a considerably greater extent than previ- 
ously upon fish, lean meat, green non-starchy vegetables, and 
gelatinous soups. 

Fruits. Any fruit which from experience is known to agree 
with the individual may be taken by gouty subjects. Apples 
and oranges generally agree best. Uncooked fruit should never 
be taken at a meat meal, and is best consumed fasting fairly 
early in the day, as between breakfast and lunch. It should 
always be thoroughly masticated. 

Strawberries are frequently avoided by the gouty owing to 
then' producing in some subjects a certain amount of temporary 
irritation of the skin, but such irritation generally passes off 
in a short time. In a few subjects strawberries produce eczema 
or some other rash, but such cases merely represent idiosyncrasy 
to the special fruit, and necessarily such individuals, whether 
gouty or not, should not eat strawberries. I am, however, 
strongly of opinion that the indiscriminate banishment of straw- 
berries from the dietary of the gouty is unnecessary. Except 
in those cases in which there is an idiosyncrasy to their use they 
constitute a good article of diet for the gouty, on account of their 
delicious flavour, their antiscorbutic properties, and their richness 
in potassium salts. It is, however, very necessary that they 
should be ripe and fresh. They are soon prone to decomposition, 
and in such a state they aid in the development of those intestinal 
fermentations which are so inimical to the gouty. 

Beverages. It is my custom to question closely each gouty 
patient that I see, not only as to the nature of the beverages 
taken, but also as to their amount ; and my general experience 
is that the great majority of people suffering from gout take 




DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 421 

an insufficient quantity of water to drink. Consequently there 
is an insufficient flushing of the liver, kidneys, and other organs 
and tissues, and therefore imperfect removal of waste and toxic 
products. More especially does one find this insufficient consump- 
tion of fluid among female patients, in many cases due to the 
absurd and erroneous belief that a diminution in the amount 
of fluid taken tends to keep down the body weight and to prevent 
the occurrence of obesity. Taking from my casebooks ten 
consecutive cases of gout occurring in ladies whom I carefully 
questioned as to the amount of fluid consumed per diem, I find 
that amongst these ten the amount averaged only 26 fluid ounces ; 
this included all fluid, whether taken as water, tea, coffee, soup, 
wine, ale, etc. The amount is obviously insufficient for the 
proper flushing of the system. For the treatment, as well as 
for the prevention, of the gouty condition the free consumption 
of water apart from meals is most desirable. 

Only a small quantity of fluid should be taken during meals, 
but during the day from two to three pints of some pure water 
should be taken. Tn many cases the ordinary tap water answers 
perfectly well , but if it should happen to be too hard a water, 
or of doubtful purity, then some simple water, such as still 
Salutaris, Contrexeville, etc., may be taken. 

" Imperial drink " constitutes an excellent febrile drink 
for the gouty, and in cases of chronic gout may advantageously 
be taken when the urine is high coloured and when it deposits 
amorphous urates on cooling. It is made by dissolving a tea- 
spoonful of powdered cream of tartar (potassium bitartrate) in 
an imperial pint of water or barley-water, and then sweetening 
to taste with loaf-sugar which has been flavoured by rubbing 
against the rind of a fresh lemon. In place of the sugar, an 
ounce and a half of syrup of lemon may be added to the pint 
of liquid. In cases of obese individuals the drink should be 
sweetened with saccharin or saxin in place of the sugar. The 
question of alcohol is fully dealt with later on. 

Simplicity of meals. The diet of gouty patients should be 
simple, that is, the meals should not be made up of too many 
articles. Simplicity of food means facility of digestion. Modera- 
tion in both eating and drinking is perhaps one of the most 



422 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

essential points to insist on in the dietary of the gouty. Certainly 
meat, even red meat, should not be excluded from the diet. No 
class of food-stuff is so productive of energy as animal food ; 
and as most cases of chronic gout are suffering from lowered 
vitality and want of tone, animal food, at all events in moderate 
quantity, is distinctly indicated. My experience supports the 
truth of this view, as I advise, in the great majority of cases of 
chronic gout, the taking of one meat-meal a day. The exclusion 
of any article of diet or of any class of food, without taking 
into account the surroundings of the case and the peculiarities 
of the individual, is unscientific. Those articles of diet that 
are known in the individual to favour intestinal f ermentation and 
putrefaction should certainly be avoided, and, speaking generally, 
a sense of discomfort after a meal indicates that some article 
or articles of food have been taken which are not beneficial to 
the 'individual in his present condition. 

If the gouty symptoms are due to over-production of toxic- 
material from faulty intestinal and hepatic metabolism, and 
if at the same time the kidneys are sound, then a diet which 
mainly consists of animal food is indicated, and in extreme 
cases of this class even the so-called " Salisbury diet " may be 
useful. If, on the other hand, the symptoms are due to defective 
elimination on account of diseased kidneys, then a diet which 
is more vegetarian will be best. The value of the so-called " Salis- 
bury diet " consists in the small amount of energy necessary 
for the digestion of so simple a diet, and in the fact that it contains 
little which can set up intestinal fermentation or putrefaction. 
On the other hand, a strictly vegetarian diet requires more digest- 
ive energy than a purely animal one, and a much larger quantity 
of vegetable food must be taken to produce an equal nutritive 
effect. 

In connexion with the question of the amount of food necessary 
for the maintenance of the most perfect health, it is very import- 
ant to bear in mind the necessity of the adoption of the habit 
of thorough mastication and insalivation of food. This applies 
not only to the gouty, but to every one. The thorough mastica- 
tion and insalivation of food has a very striking effect upon the 
appetite, leading to the choice of a more simple dietary and 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 423 

enabling it to be satisfied with a diet which is considerably less 
in amount than the ordinary habit of incomplete mastication 
demands. 

If, during the treatment of gout, an attack of gouty dyspepsia 
should at any time intervene, then a milk diet should be em- 
ployed until the dyspeptic symptoms have abated. 

The " Salisbury diet" As previously stated, as little com- 
plexity as is possible in the meals is the main desideratum in the 
dietary of the gouty, and in a few intractable cases of chronic gout 
it may even become necessary to reduce the dietary for a time to 
the simplest possible condition, namely, to two articles of food 
lean meat and water. There are a few cases of chronic gout which 
undoubtedly improve, and even recover, on an exclusive diet 
of red meat and hot water. These are generally cases of chronic 
gouty arthritis which have failed to yield to the ordinary methods 
of treatment, and which are accompanied by dyspepsia, flatulence, 
acid eructations, pyrosis, and offensive stools. I have successfully 
treated a few such carefully-selected cases of chronic gout by 
the employment of this, the so-called " Salisbury " treatment. 
It is essential, before placing a patient on such diet, that the 
urine should be carefully examined, as any advanced condition 
of kidney disease centra-indicates the employment of such a 
dietary. If the evidence of kidney derangement is only slight, 
the adoption of the dietary is not contra-indicated ; but the 
urine must be carefully examined every two or three days, as 
any considerable increase in the albuminuria would at once be 
an indication for the discontinuance of this special diet. Gouty 
patients suffering from organic heart-disease with any failure 
of compensation should never be placed on this dietary. The 
dietary consists in the patient drinking from three to five pints 
of hot water daily, the water being taken from one to one hour 
and a half before each meal, and half an hour before retiring 
to rest, and eating from two to four pounds of beefsteak daily. 
The meat should be freed from fat, gristle, and connective tissue, 
thoroughly minced, mixed with a little water, and then warmed, 
through with gentle heat until it becomes brown in colour. A 
little salt and pepper may be added, and the meat eaten in this 
form or made up into cakes and cooked on the grill. Later on 



424 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

in the treatment, part of the steak may be taken grilled, or a 
grilled lean mutton chop may be substituted for one of the daily 
meals. The course of treatment should last for from four to 
twelve weeks, after which a gradual return to ordinary diet 
should be made. 

Articles of diet to be avoided by the gouty. Rich meat-soups : 
Ox-tail, turtle, mock turtle, kidney, mulligatawny, hare, 
giblet. 

Salmon, mackerel, eels, lobster, crab, mussel, salted fish, 
smoked fish, preserved fish, tinned fish. 

Duck, goose, pigeon, high game. 

Meats cooked a second time. Hare, venison, pork, lean 
ham, liver, kidney, salted, corned or cured meats, pickled meats, 
preserved and potted meats, sausages : all articles of food pickled 
in vinegar ; all highly-seasoned dishes and rich sauces. 

Tomatoes, beetroot, cucumber, rhubarb, mushrooms, truffles. 

Rich pastry, rich sweets, new bread, cakes, nuts, dried fruits, 
ices, ice-cream. 

Diet in acute gout. It is preferable that no food be taken 
for the first twenty-four hours of an acute attack of gout, but 
water should be drunk freely. During the acute attack the 
patient should be restricted to a milk diet, which may consist 
of milk, bread and milk, and tea made with boiling milk instead 
of with water. Weak tea with cold toast thinly buttered may 
also be taken. The free drinking of hot or cold water, of salutaris 
water, or of some simple mineral water, should be encouraged. 
The milk diet should be continued until the acute inflammation 
is subsiding, which stage is indicated by the lessening of the 
pain, and by the pitting on pressure of the affected parts. No 
alcohol in any form should be given during this stage, unless 
there are strong reasons for its administration, such as a weak 
action of the heart and a feeble, irregular pulse, when a little 
well-matured whisky diluted with salutaris water will prove 
the best form of alcohol. Beef-tea and any of the meat extracts 
or essences should be avoided at all times by gouty patients, owing 
to the tendency they have to irritate the kidneys, and to the 
fact that they are loaded with waste nitrogenous products. With 
the subsidence of the acute attack the patient may return to a 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 425 

more liberal diet, but care should be taken to avoid anything 
indigestible. 

Diet in chronic gout and for gouty subjects. The following 
plan gives an indication of the diet to be recommended to gouty 
subjects : 

Morning. Half a pint to a pint of hot water, flavoured with 
a slice of lemon-peel, should be slowly sipped immediately on 
rising. 

Breakfast. A selection may be made from the following 
articles of diet, according to the taste of the patient : Porridge 
and milk, whiting, sole or plaice, fat bacon, eggs cooked in various 
ways, dry toast or " Zwieback bread " thinly buttered, and tea 
infused for three minutes and then strained from the leaves. 
Fat bacon is digestible when grilled, but less so when boiled. 
Eggs should not be taken hard-boiled. 

Lunch and Dinner. Soups suitable for the gouty are vegetable 
purees, and soups made by boiling beef and mutton bones with 
vegetables, and subsequently removing the fat which separates 
on cooling. These soups should not be thickened with farinace- 
ous substances. 

The varieties of fish most suitable to the gouty are whiting, 
sole, turbot, plaice, smelt, flounder, grey mullet, and fresh haddock. 

The birds that are admissible as articles of diet are chicken, 
pheasant, turkey, and game (not high). 

Butcher's meat, mutton, lamb, and beef should be taken at 
only one meal in the day, and then in moderate quantity. Two 
vegetables may be taken at both lunch and dinner. Any of 
the ordinary vegetables may be taken, except those previously 
mentioned as best avoided ; but those that I consider most likely 
to prove beneficial to gouty subjects are spinach, Brussels sprouts, 
French beans, winter cabbage, Savoy cabbage, turnip tops, 
turnips, and celery. Potatoes may also be taken in moderate 
quantities. Stewed fruits, or baked apples or pears, may be 
taken every day at one meal. 

Green vegetables as salads may be taken, provided oily dress- 
ings are avoided. A simple savoury may, if desired, be taken 
at the end of dinner, or a small quantity of cheese, if well masti- 
cated, and if free from the penicillium fungus or mould. 



426 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Night. Half a pint to a pint of hot water, flavoured with 
a slice of lemon-peel, should be slowly sipped before retiring 
to bed. 

With regard to persons who are disposed to gout, but are 
not actually suffering from it, the usual mixed diet may be taken, 
but they should limit the starchy articles of food, and should 
avoid all rich sweets, rice, tapioca, and sago. Thin and ill- 
nourished subjects require modifications in their diet as compared 
with people who are stout, while those who take plenty of exercise 
can take food forbidden to the indolent. 

Individuals who especially benefit by a reduction of diet, both 
as regards quantity and quality, are those overfed people who are 
past middle life. 

Dietetic treatment of gouty glycosuria and gouty diabetes. 
Careful dietetic treatment should be resorted to, without, how- 
ever, restricting the diet too much. An excessively nitrogenous 
diet is to be avoided as tending to accentuate the gouty condition, 
but no hard and fast rules as to the amount of diet can be laid 
down. Each case must be treated by ascertaining what amount 
of proteins, fats, and carbo-hydrates is best borne by the indivi- 
dual. Toasted bread, milk, and milk puddings made with 
rice, sago, and tapioca are generally permissible in this form of 
glycosuria. The best test of the suitability of the diet is the 
fact that the weight of the patient is not diminishing, while, 
at the same time, the excretion of sugar is becoming less. The 
patient should, therefore, be weighed once a week, and the 
whole of the urine for twenty-four hours should be collected 
once a week, measured, and the quantity of sugar determined 
in a sample of the mixed urines, so that the total output of sugar 
for the twenty-four hours may be known. 

Alcoholic drinks. Stated as a general principle, a person 
who is subject to gout is better without alcohol in any form. 
There are, however, some who require a little alcohol, either 
to aid digestion or to enable them to get through their work ; 
and here I am entirely in accord with the advice given by Good- 
hart, that, if a man requires any stimulant at all, it is a matter 
he must decide by experiment for himself, for no medical man 
can tell him. If alcohol is necessary or desirable, the form in 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 427 

which it is to be taken is frequently a matter which the patient 
can decide better than the medical man ; but I would insist 
upon the importance of definitely limiting the amount to be 
taken, and of restricting its consumption absolutely to meals. 
Some patients find that a little whisky or brandy suits them best ; 
others find a light still Moselle preferable ; a few, but in my 
opinion only a very limited number, find a light claret agrees best 
with them. Champagne is a wine which is seldom suited to the 
gouty, especially if taken daily. In elderly people, or in the 
feeble, a moderate amount of pure whisky undoubtedly does 
good ; but the indiscriminate ordering of whisky to gouty 
subjects is, I am sure, wrong. 

It is well known that certain alcoholic drinks injuriously 
affect the gouty process, whilst others exert a less injurious influ- 
ence. Alcoholic drinks which have been obtained by fermenta- 
tion, but which have not been submitted to distillation, such as 
wines and beers, appear to exercise a more harmful influence than 
if the same amount of alcohol be consumed in the form of one 
of the distilled spirits, such as whisky, brandy, etc. Sir Alfred 
Garrod considers that the reason for the prevalence of gout in 
the south of England and its rarity in Scotland is chiefly to be 
found in the difference between the beverages drunk in the two 
countries. 

Acidity of wines and beers. Distilled spirits contain little 
or no acid, whilst wines and beers are distinctly acid ; and to the 
acids contained in these drinks many physicians have attributed, 
and still do attribute, their gout-producing properties. The acids 
present are tartaric, succinic, malic, acetic, formic, propionic, 
butyric and cenanthic. The acidity of wines is mainly due to 
tartaric, malic, and succinic acids. The amount of free acid in 
sound wine, reckoned as tartaric acid, varies between 0'3 and 
0'7 per cent. I found the acidity of some 1847 port, reckoned 
as tartaric acid, to be 0'6 per cent. Cider owes its acidity mainly 
to malic acid. Its total acidity is usually O'l per cent. If we 
arrange the various wines in (a) their order of acidity and (6) 
the order of their gout-inducing power, we find that the most 
acid wines are not those which most predispose to gout. The 
arrangement of wines and beers in the order of acidity, beginning 



428 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

with the most acid, is that given by Bence Jones, while the 
arrangement in order of their gout-inducing power is that given 
by Sir Alfred Garrod. 

Hock, Moselle and the weaker kinds of ales have comparatively 
little gout-inducing power. 

The acidity of alcoholic liquors cannot have much influence 
in determining an attack of gout, as port, sherry and malt liquors, 
which are the most powerful predisposing agents, are amongst 
the least acid, whilst the more acid wines are comparatively 
harmless in this respect ; moreover, it must be remembered 
that the organic acids and their salts contained in wines are 
converted in the body into alkaline compounds, and are excreted 
in the urine as such. 

WINES AND BEERS ARRANGED IN ORDER or ACIDITY AND GOUT- 
INDUCING POWER. 



(a) Acidity (beginning with the 
most acid). 



(b) Gout-inducing power (beginning 
with the most powerful). 



Moselle. 

Rhine wines. 

Burgundy. 

Madeira. 

Claret. 

Champagne. 

Port. 

Sherry. 

Malt liquors. 



Port. 

Sherry. 

Other stronger wines. 

Champagne. 

Stout and porter. 

Strong ales. 

Claret. 

Hock. 

Moselle. 

Weaker kinds of ales. 



Gout-inducing properties of alcoholic drinks. The question 
is To what constituent or constituents of wines and beers are 
their gout-inducing properties due ? They are not due to the 
alcohol alone, for in countries such as Scotland, Norway, Sweden, 
and Poland, where distilled spirits are, or were, freely consumed, 
gout is almost unknown. Moreover, several experiments that 
I have made indicate that alcohol, in such quantities as are ever 
likely to be present in the blood, has no effect either upon the 
conversion of sodium quadriurate into biurate or on the solubility 
of the latter. The gout-inducing properties are most probably 
not due to the acids of the wines and beers, for the reasons which 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 429 

have already been given. It is also very doubtful whether 
the sugar present in wines is per se harmful ; but as a rule the 
sweet wines are fortified wines, while the natural wines are gener- 
ally dry. It is very probable that the sweet fortified wines are 
prone to produce fermentative and catarrhal changes in the 
gastro-intestinal tract, and are on that account harmful to the 
gouty. 

The gout-inducing properties are certainly not directly due 
to the oenanthic ether and other ethereal salts of wines exerting 
any effect either on the rate of decomposition of the sodium 
quadriurate or on the solubility of the biurate. To demonstrate 
these points, I have extracted from old port wines the ethereal 
salts to which the bouquet of the wines is due, and have experi- 
mented with these ethereal compounds on the quadriurates 
and biurates. Using quantities far in excess of those likely 
to be present in the blood after the moderate, or even immoderate, 
consumption of such wine, I find that none of these volatile 
constituents exercise the slightest effect either in hastening 
the decomposition of the sodium quadriurate or in diminishing 
the solubility or hastening the precipitation of sodium biurate. 
As to the modus operandi of certain wines, such as port, etc., 
in hastening an attack of gout, I incline to the opinion that the 
influence of wines on the development of gout is hi great part 
due to the effect they exercise in producing fermentative and 
catarrhal changes in the gastro-intestinal tract, and in also injuri- 
ously affecting hepatic metabolism. At the same time, it must 
be remembered that those accustomed to drink wine are also 
able to indulge in other luxuries of the table which greatly favour 
the development of gout. 

As Woods Hutchinson has pointed out, the experiments of 
Boix appear to have shown that, in the case of alcohol, it is 
not the direct toxic effect of the drug, so much as the catarrhal 
and other irritative changes set up by it in the intestines which 
produce the poisonous products that are carried to the liver 
and cause irritation and degeneration of that organ. In other 
words, unless alcohol is taken in sufficient amounts to disturb 
gastric and intestinal digestion, it will not produce the hob-nail 
liver. 



430 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

It must also be borne in mind that the rapidly fermentable 
fruit and malt sugars, the esters, and the higher alcohols, which 
are present in wines and beers, are more closely concerned 
with fermentative changes in the stomach and intestines than 
is the alcohol itself. 

Port is a wine which is especially unsuited to the majority 
of gouty subjects. The gout-inducing properties of the wine 
are, I believe, mainly dependent upon the ethereal compounds 
which give the aroma or bouquet to the wine, although these 
bodies do not act directly on either the quadriurate or biurate 
of sodium. If this view is correct it would explain the well- 
known fact that old and matured ports are much more provoca- 
tive of gout than comparatively new ports taken direct from 
the wood. The development of the ethereal compounds in the 
wine extends over many years, and especially progresses after 
the wine is laid by in bottles. In a few cases of asthenic gout, 
especially in old people, a moderate amount of comparatively 
new port taken direct from the wood undoubtedly does good. 
In my opinion the wines which are least injurious as a rule 
to gouty subjects to whom it is found necessary to order a small 
amount of wine are the light still white wines, such as Moselle, 
certain French wines, certain Austrian wines, hock, and a few 
of the lighter Australian and Qalifornian wines. These last, 
owing to their greater alcoholic strength should be taken diluted 
with water or some mineral water. 

Gouty subjects suffering from glycosuria or diabetes should 
entirely abstain from alcoholic drinks, unless marked debility 
and loss of appetite necessitates the restricted administration 
of them. Gouty persons subject to attacks of eczema are also 
much better without alcohol in any form, and certainly entire 
abstention from alcohol is most desirable during the treatment 
and persistence of the eczema. It is best that any form of alcohol 
should be abstained from, but the prohibition applies more 
especially, in my experience, to the red wines. I have met with 
several cases occurring among gouty individuals past the middle 
age of life in whom two or three glasses of claret or Burgundy 
will in the course of a few hours cause the development of an 
eczema. 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 431 

" Rough " cider, that is the completely fermented apple- 
juice, taken in moderation, agrees well with most gouty subjects. 
It contains but a small percentage of alcohol, is free from sugar,, 
and its acidity is chiefly due to malic acid, which passes into 
the circulation in the form of alkaline malates, which in their 
turn are converted in the kidneys into alkaline carbonates and 
excreted as such, thereby increasing the elimination of urates. 
The bottled or " champagne " cider, which is imperfectly fer- 
mented, should never be used by gouty individuals, owing to 
its undoubted liability to set up gastro-intestinal fermentations. 
Dry or " rough " cider mixed with an equal quantity of an aerated 
water is an excellent beverage for the gouty. Dry perry is also 
a suitable drink for the subjects of gout. 

Water and mineral waters. The free employment of water in 
the treatment of gout dates from ancient times. At the Temples 
of Asklepios at Epidaurus and Athens, water was used extensively 
both internally and externally, and active gymnastic exercise, 
riding, friction of the skin, massage, and counter-irritation were 
prescribed. 

Spa treatment is a complex treatment made up of several 
factors, and on the correct apportionment of these different 
factors depends much of the successful issue of the treatment. 
These several factors are : (1) Hydro therapy, which includes the 
taking of, and the bathing in, the water ; (2) diet ; (3) exercise ; 
and (4) accessory forms of treatment, such as electric light 
baths, electrical treatment, massage, etc. With regard to the 
drinking of a water at a spa there is a tendency with some medical 
men to consider that the efficacy of a natural mineral water is 
due solely to its watery constituent in other words, that its 
one therapeutic use is that of a flushing agent. Even so astute 
a physician as the late Sir William Roberts appears to have held 
this view. In his Croonian lectures, referring to the employment 
of the waters of certain spas in the treatment of gout, he said : 
" Now there can be no reasonable doubt that the efficacy of 
these springs has nothing to do with their scanty mineral ingred- 
ients but depends on their watery constituent .... Their 
action would be to temporarily dilute the blood and lower its 
percentage of urates and sodium salts. This effect would tend 



432 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

to retard or prevent uratic precipitation, and thus give the 
defective kidneys additional time to overtake their arrears in the 
task of eliminating uric acid." 

Ionic theory and radio-activity. If the efficacy of a natural 
mineral water depended solely on its watery constituent I do 
not for one moment think that the resort of sufferers to the 
various natural springs would have successfully stood the test 
of centuries, as it undoubtedly has. The fact is that in judging 
of the effect of natural mineral waters we have been too much 
under the domination of analytical chemistry, and that our 
deductions from these results have been consequently biased 
and cramped. The more I consider the therapeutic effects of 
the natural mineral waters the more convinced I am that chemical 
analysis, although it can inform us what are the mineral constitu- 
ents of the natural waters, is yet unable to determine exactly 
the state of the salts dissolved in them. The " ionic or electrical 
dissociation theory " and the existence of the mineral constituents 
of natural waters as " ions " are leading our thoughts to a new 
and, I believe, correct appreciation of the therapeutic values 
of these waters. 

An element or a group of elements divorced from the rest 
of the original molecule is an " ion." According to the ionic 
theory metallic salts in very dilute solutions are completely split 
up into their " ions " so that all the properties of these solutions 
must be the sum of the properties of the separate " ions." In 
concentrated solutions much of the salt remains in the undisso- 
ciated state and only a small proportion in the form of dissoci- 
ated " ions," whereas in most of the natural mineral waters, 
which are weak solutions of salts, the mineral constituents are 
mainly, if not entirely in many waters, in the form of " ions," 
and in this form the therapeutic effects and potency may be 
quite different from those of the undissociated salts. Ionic 
dissociation does not, therefore, alter the percentage composition 
of a salt, but may very materially alter its therapeutic properties, 
so that in all probability the " ions " rather than the salts are 
responsible in great part for the effects of mineral waters. 

In intimate relation with this aspect of the matter is the ques- 
tion of radio-activity in hydro therapy. Our conception of the 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 433 

atom as an indivisible and finite body is disappearing, and, in 
view of the recent discoveries that have been made in connexion 
with radio-activity, the atom must be conceived as consisting 
of an aggregate of corpuscles, and each atom has associated 
with it a definite charge of electricity, such an electrically charged 
atom being an " ion." The smallest unit of electric charge is 
known as an " electron " and the atom is charged with a number 
of these electrons, which are in a state of vigorous motion among 
themselves within the atom. Radio-activity consists in the 
flinging away with great violence of actual atoms. The substance 
left is also radio-active, and ultimately one of the residues seems 
to discharge electrons instead of atoms of matter, thus effecting 
a transmutation of matter. 

Now, most, if not all, of the natural mineral waters which 
have been examined have been found to be distinctly radio- 
active, and the lower the mineralization of the water, the more 
intense is its radio-activity. In this, I think, lies the explanation 
of the fact that an artificially prepared mineral water, although 
it may be made identical in chemical composition with the 
natural one, does not possess the same therapeutic effects as 
the natural water, since it is lacking, at all events to any extent, 
in the property of radio-activity. A natural water at the moment 
of its discharge from the earth is radio-active, whereas an ordinary 
drinking water does not possess this property to any appreciable 
extent. Hence also the desirability of drinking the water at 
its source, since by the bottling and keeping of a natural water 
the radio-activity is to a great extent lost. When we consider 
the marked influence of radio-active emanations on new growths 
and various morbid tissues, is it too remarkable to conceive that 
a radio-active mineral water will exercise a potent effect on 
those morbid changes within the body which are connected with 
abnormal tissue metabolism ? 

Uses of mineral waters in the treatment of gout. If gout is 
primarily due to the absorption of toxins from the intestinal 
canal dependent upon a catarrh of the intestinal mucosa, many 
of the natural mineral waters must be efficacious in altering 
the catarrhal condition and in improving the digestive processes ; 
also the secondary effect of increasing the flow of bile and of 

28 



434 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

thoroughly washing out all the tissues, so as to get rid of toxic 
accumulation, is important. 

The value of a given mineral water in the treatment of gout 
depends greatly on the main object with which it is taken. For 
instance, it may be taken to remove gouty deposits, or to stimulate 
the action of a sluggish liver and to relieve portal congestion, 
or for the treatment of gouty dyspepsia, or to relieve the bowels 
in cases of torpor and gastro-intestinal catarrh, or to act on the 
kidneys, or to relieve gouty affections of the skin. Now it is 
manifest that any one mineral water is not likely to produce all 
these effects and it is also obviously conceivable that a mineral 
water which might be most useful to effect one of these purposes 
might prove injurious if employed to effect another. No doubt 
considerable error has arisen from indiscriminately sending 
gouty patients to a particular spa, without giving due considera- 
tion to the question as to whether the water of that spa is suitable 
for the treatment of the specific gouty disorder from which the 
patient is suffering. It is well to bear in mind that a patient 
should not be sent to a spa during the acute stage of gout, 
nor if suffering from marked organic disease of the heart or 
kidneys. 

It is especially in cases of chronic gout, of gastro-intestinal 
catarrh and torpor, of gouty dyspepsia, sluggish action of the 
liver, gouty eczema, gouty glycosuria, and of other forms of 
irregular gout, that mineral waters prove so valuable, whilst the 
various baths, combined with massage, are so useful in producing 
softening and absorption of the deposits in the joints and other 
tissues. 

The explanations given as to the modus operandi of a particular 
mineral water must sometimes be received with a certain amount 
of caution. For instance, the advocates of one mineral water 
will extol its efficacy in the treatment of gout on account of the 
lime salts contained in it and its freedom from sodium salts, 
whilst, on the other hand, the advocates of another mineral water 
will insist that the large quantities of sodium salts present in 
it and the absence of lime salts are the potent factors in its 
usefulness in the treatment of gout. 

All gouty individuals should avoid localities in which there 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 435 

are hard chalky waters, or, if they have to reside in such localities, 
should avoid drinking the water of the district. In such cases 
they should drink distilled water, plain or aerated, or some of 
the simple natural mineral waters. 



DIET IN ACUTE RHEUMATISM 

The diet daring the acute stage should consist mainly of milk, 
to which some common salt (about 15 grains to each half 
pint of milk) may be added with advantage. Vegetable soups 
may also be given, but meat soups, and the various meat essences 
and meat extracts should be avoided during the acute stage. 
Barley water, lemonade, infusion of tamarinds, or imperial drink 
should be given freely to allay the thirst. " Imperial drink " 
constitutes an excellent febrile drink. It is made by dissolving 
a teaspoonf ul of powdered cream of tartar (potassium bitartrate) 
in an imperial pint of water or barley water, and then sweetening 
to taste with loaf-sugar which has been flavoured by rubbing 
against the rind of a fresh lemon. 

Another useful drink is prepared by roughly tearing a lemon 
to pieces, boiling it for ten minutes in a pint of water, straining 
through muslin, and then adding 20 grains of potassium bicar- 
bonate, and some ice to cool. 

" Tamarind tea " is another excellent febrile drink. It is 
prepared by stirring a heaped-up tablespoonful of tamarind 
pulp with a pint of hot water for a few minutes, straining through 
muslin, and then adding some ice to cool. 

As convalescence is established, the patient may be put on a 
fuller and more liberal diet. With regard to alcohol there is 
no necessity to administer it in the majority of cases, but if 
there is severe prostration small quantities of brandy may be 
given. In cases complicated with severe endocarditis or pericar- 
ditis stimulants are more frequently required, and in such cases 
brandy may with advantage be given in the milk. 



436 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

DIET IN CHRONIC RHEUMATISM (FDBROSITIS) 

Under this heading are included not only the chronic joint 
affections, which may be left as sequelae of acute or subacute 
rheumatism, and which may certainly and correctly be called 
true chronic rheumatism, but also that larger class of cases 
-which are so commonly met with in practice, which are called 
" rheumatic," but which are not connected at all with what we 
know as true rheumatism. These are the cases in which the 
essential pathological change is an inflammatory hyperplasia 
of the white fibrous tissue in various parts of the body, to which 
the term k< fibrositis " has been very aptly applied. They include 
the various forms of muscular rheumatism lumbago, stiff neck, 
deltoid rheumatism, intercostal rheumatism, and also rheumatic 
neuralgia, Dupuytren's contraction, and chronic villous synovitis 
of the joints. 

{ Unlike gout, no special dieting is required in these affections. 
Moderation should be the keynote of all prone to the various 
forms of fibrositis, and especially should they avoid foods which 
their experience has taught them to be apt to produce gastro- 
intestinal fermentation. It is quite unnecessary to prohibit 
such articles as red meats, sugar, jams, bread, fruit, etc., in the 
cases of sufferers from the various forms of fibrositis. All these 
articles of food, if they do not produce indigestion, are perfectly 
wholesome. It has become of late years a fashionable craze 
to attribute many of the forms of " chronic rheumatism " to 
uric acid. That by-product of the human economy has no 
part or parcel in the production of any of the morbid conditions 
generally known as " chronic rheumatism." 



DIET IN RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

The not infrequent mistake of diagnosing rheumatoid arthritis 
as gout, and the consequent placing of the patient on a restricted 
and spare diet, has undoubtedly led to the development of severe 
and incurable forms of the disease. It is essentially a disease 
that requires good and nutritious feeding, and I have seen many 



DIET IN GOUT, RHEUMATISM, ETC. 437 

cases of rheumatoid arthritis which had gone thoroughly to 
the bad through the initial error of mistaking the disease for 
gout, and treating it with a spare diet. The diet should be as 
liberal and as good as the patient can digest, and animal food 
should be partaken of freely, though not to the exclusion of veget- 
ables. The exclusion of the red meats, and of such articles as 
sugar, potatoes, cauliflower, peas and beans, on the assumption 
that they do harm in rheumatoid arthritis, is, in my opinion, 
not only unnecessary but is absolutely opposed to the treatment 
I have adopted and the careful observations I have made, in the 
dieting of patients suffering from this disease. 

A moderate quantity of wine or stout should be taken with 
lunch and dinner. Any kind of wine that agrees with the patient 
may be taken ; but perhaps a generous red wine, such as Bur- 
gundy, is the most suitable. If the tempero-maxillary joints 
are so much affected as seriously to interfere with mastication 
it is necessary to give meat in a minced or pounded form. In 
such cases as much generous liquid nourishment as possible 
should also be given. 



DIET IN DIABETES 



CHAPTER XIII 

DIET IN DIABETES 
BY J. ROSE BRADFORD, M.D., F.R.S. 

OF recent years the dietetic treatment of diabetes has been 
recognized to be not quite so simple as it was thought to be 
formerly, inasmuch as it is now recognized that different varieties 
of the affection require different dietetic treatment, and that it 
is not sufficient simply to cut off all carbo-hydrate foods in all 
cases. Formerly the treatment consisted simply in restricting 
to as great an extent as possible the intake of carbo-hydrates. 
It is now recognized that at any rate in some cases it is desirable 
to allow carefully regulated amounts of carbo-hydrates, even 
where their ingestion is followed by some increase in the glycosuria, 
and thus it is often a matter of considerable difficulty to deter- 
mine what is the most suitable dietetic treatment, especially 
in some of the more severe forms of the disease. Again, it is 
somewhat difficult to draw a hard-and-fast line between the 
different varieties of the malady, and especially with regard to 
the exact relation of certain forms of intermittent glycosuria to 
true diabetes. 

Intermittent glycosuria is seen in a number of conditions, 
but the most important variety from a dietetic standpoint is 
that where the glycosuria occurs in relation to food, the so-called 
alimentary glycosuria. There are various grades of severity of 
this affection. In the slighter forms sugar is only present in the 
urine after a meal containing a large quantity of sugar as such. 
In others, the glycosuria is present to a moderate extent so long 
as any considerable quantity of carbo-hydrates is present in the 
food, but it disappears so soon as these are cut off. In the 
slighter forms of glycosuria the presence of sugar is the only 



441 



442 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

abnormality in the urine. On the other hand, in the more severe 
forms where the glycosuria is more persistent, other abnormal 
substances, and more particularly acetone and diacetic acid, are 
also present. Three cases merge into those of more severe 
diabetes where the glycosuria is not only persistent and accom- 
panied by the excretion of acetone diacetic acid and oxybutyric 
acid, but it is influenced far less by dietetic restrictions. To this 
group of cases the term composite diabetes has been applied by 
some, inasmuch as the glycosuria persists to some degree even 
when the carbo-hydrates are excluded to as great an extent as 
possible from the food. 

It is essential from the point of view of treatment to differen- 
tiate between the different forms of diabetes and to attempt to 
diagnose, so far as is possible, the particular variety that is present. 
For this purpose observations should be made on the patient to 
determine whether the glycosuria is only present after the inges- 
tion of an excessive quantity of sugar or carbo-hydrate, or whether 
it is present with an ordinary mixed diet such as a healthy adult 
is in the habit of taking, or whether it is still present after the 
diet has been cut down so as to exclude, either partially or entirely , 
carbo-hydrate food. These facts can be expressed in another 
way by saying that the| diabetic and the glycosuric vary in their 
tolerance of carbo-hydrates, or in the degree to which they can 
metabolize carbo-hydrate food. In severe cases the organism would 
seem to have lost all power of metabolizing carbo-hydrates and the 
whole of the ingested carbo-hydrate is excreted. Further, in these 
cases the non-carbo-hydrate tissues of the body, especially the 
proteins and also the non-carbo-hydrate constituents of the food, 
may give rise to the formation of sugar, as such patients excrete 
large quantities of sugar in the urine at a time when no carbo- 
hydrate is being ingested. In this severe type of the malady 
protein disintegration is so great as to lead to a notable increase 
in the nitrogenous extractives in the urine, particularly the urea, 
and there is obviously a very complex disturbance of the metabolic 
processes. 

A very important group of cases is that in which a slight 
trace of sugar is present in the urine from time to time, but 
where a test meal rich in carbo-hydrate is immediately followed 



DIET IN DIABETES 443 

by the excretion of sugar in appreciable quantity. These cases 
are important because usually they are discovered accidentally 
in the course of a routine examination, as for instance for life 
insurance, and although the patients may maintain a condition 
of good health for long periods, it would seem that a certain pro- 
portion of such cases ultimately become diabetic. This type of 
case is important to recognize and treat, inasmuch as they are 
very amenable to suitable dietetic treatment, and very commonly 
only slight restriction in the diet is necessary in order to lead to 
the disappearance of the glycosuria. 

Although it is of the first importance in the dietetic treatment 
of diabetes for a careful examination of the urine to be made, 
both from the point of view of the amount of sugar present and 
its relation to the character of the food, and also to determine 
the presence or absence of such substances as acetone and diacetic 
acid, yet attention must not be concentrated exclusively on the 
urine, and the diet must not be regulated entirely by the effects 
produced on the urine. Thus a rigid diet may lead to a diminu- 
tion in the quantity of urine and in the amount of sugar present, 
and the patient's symptoms, especially his thirst, may be relieved 
to a greater or less extent. Yet such a patient may not be im- 
proving when tested in other ways, and more especially when 
observations on the body-weight are made at regular intervals. 
A progressive loss of weight may often be observed where a rigid 
diet is being given, and yet where the quantity of sugar excreted 
has diminished as a result. In these cases, however, the serious 
nature of the disease can often be recognized by the presence of 
considerable quantities of diacetic acid and oxybutyric acid in 
the urine. Some amelioration in these severe cases may be often 
observed as the result of allowing carefully regulated quantities 
of carbo-hydrates in the food. 

The different varieties of diabetes may not only be separated 
from one another by the differences alluded to above in the com- 
position of the urine and in the degree to which the urine responds 
to dietetic treatment, but they may also be differentiated by 
their morbid anatomy and also to some extent by their clinical 
course. Thus the more severe forms of the disease are commonly 
associated with lesions of the pancreas, and hence are spoken of 



444 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

as pancreatic diabetes, and such cases commonly run an unfavour- 
able course accompanied by much emaciation. A totally different 
type is that seen in middle-aged obese patients where the quantity 
of sugar excreted is far less, and where some of the more character- 
istic features of the disease, such as great thirst, are absent. In 
these cases of fat diabetes the clinical course of the malady is 
often much more prolonged and less severe. Again, there is a 
very distinct type seen in middle-aged persons associated with 
more or less advanced arteriosclerosis, where the amount of sugar 
excreted is usually small, but where in addition albumin is present, 
and the clinical course of this variety is very different to that of 
the other forms of the disease, and such patients are far more 
liable to complications dependent on the vascular degeneration 
that is present, e.g. cerebral haemorrhage, thrombosis, gangrene 
of the extremities, etc. 

It is obvious that these different types of diabetes must neces- 
sarily require very different dietetic treatment ; thus to take the 
arterio-sclerotic form of the malady, it is clear that a highly nitro- 
genous protein diet cannot be partaken of in such cases without 
very considerable risks being incurred. 

In regulating the dietetic treatment of this malady many fac 
tors have therefore to be taken into consideration. First the 
type of the disease as determined by the age, duration and clinical 
course of the malady, as for instance on the one hand the severe 
type seen in young adults characterized by great wasting and the 
excretion of a very abundant urine containing a very high per- 
centage of sugar, together with acetone and diacetic acid, and on 
the other hand, the type seen in middle-aged or elderly fat patients 
where the symptoms are slight and the amount of sugar excreted 
far less. 

The second most important point is the degree to which the 
excretion of sugar can be affected by dietetic measures. In all 
cases of diabetes, before any treatment is undertaken, medicinal 
or dietetic, the patient should be put on an ordinary diet, and 
careful determinations made of the total quantity of sugar passed 
in the twenty -four hours, together with determinations of the 
presence or absence of diacetic acid, acetone, etc. When these 
facts have been ascertained the diet should be gradually restricted 



DIET IN DIABETES 445 

until all carbo-hydrates are eliminated from the food. During this 
period no medicines, such as opium, antipyrin, etc., should be 
given. When the patient has been given a rigid diet for several 
days a further analysis of the urine should be made and the quan- 
tities of sugar excreted on this rigid diet compared with those 
passed on an ordinary diet. It will be found that the cases 
fall into one of three groups : in the majority of instances the 
sugar will undergo a notable diminution and the daily excretion 
will fall to half or one-quarter of that previously existent. To- 
gether with this fall in the output of sugar there will be a notable 
improvement in many of the symptoms, especially the thirst. 
In a certain proportion of cases, more especially where the quan- 
tities of sugar voided on the full diet were not large, the rigid 
diet will lead to a complete disappearance of the glycosuria. 
Lastly, in a third group of cases the rigid diet produces com- 
paratively little effect on the sugar output and the patient con- 
tinues to pass large, and sometimes very large quantities of sugar 
on the most rigid diet that can be devised. These three groups of 
cases indicate different degrees of severity of the malady, and 
perhaps in some instances differences in the nature of the lesion. 
They at any rate indicate very clearly that different dietetic 
treatment is necessary. 

Lastly, the third factor that has to be taken into considera- 
tion in the dietetic treatment of the disease is the influence of 
the diet on the body-weight. Observations should also be made 
on the temperature, as a subnormal temperature is always a 
danger signal. 

Another general principle applicable to all cases of diabetes is 
that changes in the diet in either direction should be made gradu- 
ally. There would seem to be some risk of the production of 
diabetic coma, so-called acetonsemia, as a result of sudden changes 
in diet in either direction. Instances of the occurrence of diabetic 
coma have been known as the result of suddenly putting a patient 
on an extremely rigid diet, and it is also well known that indul- 
gence in forbidden articles of diet has also been followed by 
the development of this fatal complication. Although the 
diabetic is unable to metabolize most forms of carbo-hydrate, this 
disability is not equally marked with all carbo-hydrates, and 



446 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

lactose and laevulose are less harmful than dextrose. Lsevulose 
is more easily assimilated than lactose, the main objection to 
its administration in diabetes is the difficulty in obtaining it pure, 
and it is expensive ; but appreciable quantities can be given to 
many diabetics without its administration being followed by any 
increase in the glycosuria. Although the diabetic cannot usually 
metabolize carbo-hydrate material, it is of some interest that if 
pyrexia occurs as the result of some intercurrent illness complicat- 
ing diabetes, the excretion of sugar in such a case may undergo 
a great diminution. This may be seen where diabetes is compli- 
cated by even such a prolonged febrile illness as enteric fever, and 
it would seem that during the pyrexial process the altered meta- 
bolism is capable of oxidizing sugar. 

I. Where the restricted diet leads to the disappearance of 
sugar from the urine, as in the well-known so-called alimentary 
type of the disease, the restricted diet should be maintained 
for prolonged periods, and when the urine has remained free 
from sugar for some months, small quantities of carbo-hydrate, 
such as 2 oz. of bread, may be allowed daily. The urine should 
be tested to see if it remains free from sugar, and if it does the 
quantities of carbo-hydrate allowed should be gradually increased, 
the amount given being determined by the effect on the urine. 
In many of these cases it has been found that as a result of the 
withholding of carbo-hydrate food for some time the patient has 
subsequently been able to metabolize at any rate moderate 
quantities of carbo-hydrates without the development of any 
glycosuria. The dietetic treatment of these cases presents no 
great difficulty, although special ways of cooking the food are 
often necessary, at any rate in the earlier stages of the treatment 
inasmuch as flour and other carbo-hydrate materials are so con- 
stantly used in the cooking of a very large number of articles 
of diet, e.g. soups, meat, fish and vegetables. The amount of 
carbo-hydrate allowed in the form of bread or potatoes in 
this type of case is entirely determined by the effect on the 
urine. 

II. In the second type of case, where the greatest restriction in 
the diet leads only to a diminution in the quantity of sugar excreted, 
there is considerable difficulty in the successful dietetic treatment 



DIET IN DIABETES 447 

of the malady. It is especially in this type of case that harm 
may be done by adhering too strictly to a carbo-hydrate free diet, 
and the degree to which carbo-hydrates are allowed must be 
determined not so much by the amount of sugar present in the 
urine as by other considerations, such as the general condition 
of the patient, the state of the body-weight, and the presence or 
absence of considerable quantities of diacetic acid and oxybutyric 
acid in the urine. Further, in this type of case the sugar is derived 
partly from the abnormal metabolism of proteins, and hence it is 
not advisable to unduly increase, as is so often done, the amount 
of protein in the diet. In this type of case the patient should be 
given a diet containing a moderate quantity of meat, fish, and 
eggs, together with liberal allowance of green vegetables and 
some bread substitute such as casoid bread. The subsequent 
course of the case should determine whether carbo-hydrates should 
be allowed or not. If, as is often the case, the sugar excretion 
does not fall materially and the patient begins to lose weight 
progressively, a definite quantity of carbo-hydrate food in the 
form of bread or potatoes should be ordered. Although in this 
way the amount of sugar excreted daily may be somewhat in- 
creased, the general condition of the patient may improve and the 
body-weight increase, and further, the quantity of acetone and 
diacetic acid in the urine undergo diminution. 

There is some difference of opinion with reference to the 
kind of carbo-hydrate that may be given in these cases. Some 
authorities give definite quantities of ordinary bread, others 
advise oatmeal, others potatoes. It is not probable that the 
differences observed with these different carbo-hydrates are due 
to any inherent differences in the starch, but rather that they 
depend on the actual quantities of carbo-hydrate in any given 
quantity of the food-stuff. Thus, roughly, bread contains three 
times as much carbo-hydrate as potatoes, and hence the patient's 
desire for carbo-hydrate food can often be more easily satisfied 
with potato than with bread. 

In this type of diabetic, where the excretion of sugar is not 
prevented but only diminished by a rigid diet, the quantities of 
carbo-hydrate given must be strictly moderate and kept under 
supervision. 



448 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

It is not sufficient for the successful dietetic treatment of 
these cases to carefully limit or exclude, as the case may be, carbo- 
hydrate food, but it is most important to encourage as much as 
possible the taking of fatty food. To supply the energy that is 
required in the absence of carbo-hydrates, fat should be given 
to as great an extent as possible in the form of butter, cream, and 
oil. Considerable quantities of butter may be taken with veget- 
ables and, speaking generally, vegetables that are ordered in cases 
of diabetes should be cooked with butter or served with butter. 
Considerable quantities of fat may be also given in the form of 
salad oil. 

III. The third type of case where the rigid diet leads to but 
little diminution in the sugar excreted is a most severe form of 
the affection, and is that seen more especially in early life. In 
these cases but little benefit is obtained by rigid dieting, and the 
treatment should be very similar to that advocated in the second 
type of case, that is to say, carbo-hydrates may be allowed, the 
amount given being determined by the state of the nutrition, 
the body- weight, and the extent to which diacetic acid and similar 
products are present in the urine. It is especially in this type 
of case that much harm may be done by sudden changes in the 
diet, and there can be no question that a rigid diet, if persisted 
in, may lead to the development of acetonaemia and coma. 

In some cases of diabetes renal lesions are present, more espe- 
cially chronic nephritis and granular kidney. It is difficult to lay 
down any rules for the dieting of such cases, as with the exception 
of the glycosuria seen in some forms of arterio-sclerosis, all such 
cases are of very great severity and but little influenced by treat- 
ment. Still, it is usually impossible where renal lesions are 
present, to diet the patient according to the rules suitable for 
uncomplicated diabetes, inasmuch as the large quantities of pro- 
tein suitable for the diabetic are very unsuitable for the treat- 
ment of the renal complications. As a rule these cases will 
require dieting rather from the point of view of the renal lesion 
than from the mere diabetic standpoint. 

Renal disease is not the only complication of diabetes that 
interferes with the usual dieting necessary. Phthisis occurs fre- 
quently as a complication of diabetes, and it is not as a rule 



DIET IN DIABETES 449 

advisable to treat such cases with the rigid diet employed in 
ordinary diabetes. 

When it is desired to restrict the input of carbo-hydrates to 
as great an extent as possible, the food must be limited to meat, 
fish, green vegetables, nuts, and some bread substitute. Almost 
all varieties of meat and fish are allowable, with the exception of 
liver, sausages and oysters. Oysters contain a considerable 
amount of glycogen, and are not thus desirable in cases where 
extreme rigidity of the diet is advisable, as for example in cases 
of alimentary glycosuria. The diabetic can take a great variety 
of green vegetables, but peas and beans are usually excluded, 
inasmuch as these also are much more rich in starch than the 
ordinary green vegetables. Most blanched vegetables should 
be forbidden, but celery and asparagus are allowable. Further, 
rhubarb, tomatoes and cucumber, contain relatively little starch, 
and thus may be allowed. 

One of the great difficulties in the treatment of the disease 
with rigid diet lies in the fact that in the cooking of food so much 
carbo-hydrate material in the form of flour is so often used. Many 
meat and fish dishes are served with sauces containing very con- 
siderable quantities of starch. Meat and fish will, therefore, 
usually have to be roasted, boiled, grilled or baked, and in the case 
of fish will usually have to be served with butter. The same 
difficulty applies to a modified extent in the case of vegetables, 
and it is usually advisable to cook these in butter or to serve 
them with butter. Meat soups may be allowed in the treatment 
of the disease, but most vegetable soups are not permissible, as 
here again they are so frequently thickened with flour. 

The diabetic is unable to partake of mgst fruits, as these are 
rich in carbo-hydrate material, but the amount of sugar in straw- 
berries and gooseberries is very small, and the same remark applies 
to early oranges, so that these fruits may be taken in great modera- 
tion. The diabetic can take nuts freely, except chestnuts, and 
nuts form a particularly valuable article of diet in these cases, as 
they are rich in fatty materials. 

The main difficulties in the treatment of the severe cases arise 
from the restriction in the taking of bread, potatoes and milk. 
It is probable that the small quantities of milk required by an 

29 



450 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

adult in tea are not prejudicial, more especially when it is borne 
in mind that lactose is not such a harmful form of carbo-hydrate 
as dextrose, and that some diabetics can metabolise lactose. 
The great difficulty undoubtedly is the substitution of some 
-article in the place of bread. A great variety of substitutes 
prepared from cocoanut, almond-flour, bran and casein are made 
by the manufacturers of diabetic articles of diet. Many of the 
preparations recommended as bread substitutes contain appre- 
ciable quantities of starch, and in some of them the amount may 
be very large. Hence it is always advisable when using a bread 
substitute to test it for the presence of starch and sugar. In many 
instances it is advisable to boil the substances with dilute sulphuric 
;acid, neutralize with a caustic alkali, and then test for sugar with 
Fehling's solution. Much may be done by encouraging these 
patients to eat nuts as a substitute for bread with the heavier 
meals such as lunch and dinner, but at breakfast probably one 
of the bread substitutes will have to be employed. The popular 
idea that although bread is harmful, toast is harmless, is of course 
entirely erroneous, and bread should only be allowed when ordered 
in definite quantities for cases where it is considered desirable to 
allow a certain quantity of carbo-hydrate. The same remark 
applies to the use of potatoes. These should only be given in 
those cases where the food is not going to be restricted so as to 
exclude all carbo-hydrates. Potatoes and oatmeal are very suit- 
able kinds of carbo-hydrates to give in certain forms of diabetes, 
inasmuch as it is so usual to take them with large quantities of 
fat, either in the form of butter with potatoes, or cream with 
porridge. This form of dieting, however, as already stated, is 
only suitable to those cases of diabetes where for the 
reasons given above it is not considered desirable to entirely 
exclude carbo-hydrates from the food, and there is no reason for 
thinking that either potatoes or oatmeal contain carbo-hydrates 
that are less prejudicial to the diabetic than bread and other 
carbo-hydrate foods. It is merely a question of convenience of 
administration and percentage amount of carbo-hydrate material 
present. 

There is some difference of opinion with reference to the use 
of alcoholic drinks in the treatment of diabetes. Some author- 



DIET IN DIABETES 451 

ities consider that all forms of alcohol should be forbidden. Others 
consider that alcohol may aid in the absorption of fat and, further, 
that it may to some extent replace sugar. Probably if the 
patient's appetite is good and the digestion efficient, there is no 
necessity for ordering alcohol. On the other hand, in some 
instances where the nutrition is poor and there may be some dis- 
taste for food, it may be advisable to order small quantities of 
alcohol. Malt liquors and sweet wines and liqueurs are, of course, 
to be avoided, as they contain considerable quantities of sugar 
as such. Whisky and gin are usually free from sugar and the 
lighter hocks, Bordeaux and Moselle wines contain very little 
sugar. Champagne and the stronger wines, such as port and 
sherries, are unsuitable. 

Tea and coffee may be allowed freely, and cocoa specially pre- 
pared so as to contain but little starch is also permissible. 

There are a large number of articles of food prepared in a 
special manner so as to be free from starch and sugar that can be 
obtained from the firms manufacturing diabetic articles of diet. 
For instance, some of these manufacturers have prepared jams and 
marmalade for the diabetic which may suit the taste of some 
patients. As a rule, by care in the selection of the food and by 
employing special methods of cooking, the diabetic can be pro- 
vided with a variety of palatable diet. 



DIET IN OBESITY 



CHAPTER XIV 

DIET IN OBESITY 

BY EDMUND CAUTLEY, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

THE deposition of fat in the body is the result of a food supply 
in excess of that required to provide for the loss of energy in the 
production of work, heat, and other metabolic changes constantly 
taking place in the tissues generally. Obesity, therefore, may 
depend on an excess of food supply combined with a normal or 
a diminished energy-loss. Or the food supply may be less than 
normal, or normal, while the energy-loss is reduced, either in 
consequence of diminished muscular activity or because of dimin- 
ished oxidation due to disease. Obesity is spoken of as exogenous 
when metabolism is normal and the fat deposition depends on 
the disproportion between food and work. It is called endo- 
genous when there is no such apparent cause. 

It is doubtful whether there is a true endogenous type of 
obesity, that is, one which depends for its causation on an abnor- 
mal cellular activity, a defective protoplasmic metabolism, either 
inherited or acquired. Experimental observations, on the oxygen 
consumed and on the total exchange of gases in the obese, do not 
indicate any diminution of cellular activity. Allowing for the 
fat, some of these experiments appear to indicate that in the obese 
tissue-metabolism is even more active. But the estimation of 
the food supply shows that the calorific requirements and, there- 
fore, the food requirements are less for the obese than the normal 
individual, that is, their metabolism is less active. This deficiency 
in metabolic activity is due mainly to mechanical causes. The 
increased weight of the body leads to decrease in active exertion 
and diminution of muscular activity. The muscles become 

455 



456 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

weaker and their metabolism is reduced. The superincumbent 
layer of fat in the panniculus adiposus acts as a conservator of 
body-heat, still further reducing the metabolism of heat-producing 
materials. Alcohol encourages obesity for, by its ready oxida- 
tion, it is a source of energy and a sparer of fat. The thyroid 
glands and the sexual organs have been thought to have some 
influence on the energy-exchange and consumption of fat. Thy- 
roid extract stimulates metabolism, increasing the consumption 
of oxygen and the excretion of carbonic acid and nitrogen. In 
myxcedema the adiposity may be the result of thyroid deficiency 
but, more probably, it depends on the inertia and muscular 
inactivity. Possibly the obesity which follows on convalescence 
from infectious disease may be due to deficient oxidation, the 
result of degenerative changes in the thyroid. This idea is based 
on the assumption that the gland is stimulated during fever to 
increased activity, causing increased oxidation and wasting. 
Here, too, we must bear in mind that during convalescence the 
diet is liberal and muscular activity is limited. 

Similarly, the increased development of fat, in animals and 
birds which have been castrated, has been ascribed to a reduc- 
tion in the oxidative activity, whereas it is due more probably 
to diminished muscular activity, a placid existence and a liberal 
food supply. The fact that obesity is frequently associated with 
impotence is no proof that it is the result thereof. Other factors 
come into play, notably age and inactivity. Monks and nuns 
are often quoted as illustrative of the influence of the sex organs, 
but, even assuming that their activities are in abeyance, it is 
probable that obesity in this class is due to their sedentary life 
and excess of fattening foods. 

Certain types of morbid obesity are pathological or associated 
with degenerative changes. In children we sometimes see obesity, 
signs of degeneracy, a tendency to giantism, early menstruation, 
premature development of the sex organs, hirsuties, and pre- 
cocious puberty. Boys assume the " John Bull " or " Infant 
Hercules " type of figure, with a somewhat feminine aspect in the 
shape of enlarged mammae and deficient hair. Girls have an 
unduly masculine aspect, blotchy skin, bloated cheeks and pendu- 
lous mammae. This blotchy aspect of the skin is absent in simple 



DIET IN OBESITY 457 

obesity. Many cases of precocious puberty, obesity and adrenal 
tumours are associated. 

Another type of fatty degeneration has been described under 
the name of " Lymphatic Infantilism." It is more common in 
boys than girls. Up to the age of about ten years they develop 
rapidly and are precocious. Then they grow fat, but not taller. 
The mammae enlarge, the energies and testicular development 
are arrested, and the boy becomes a mere bag of fat. 

In older subjects pathological adiposity is seen in chlorotic 
girls and in the fat ansemics of later life. 

Thus we may recognize three types of obesity. The first is 
the plethoric type, characterized by simple obesity, high colour 
and good circulatory powers. In the second or anaemic type the 
circulatory powers have failed to a greater or less extent, either 
as a sequel of the plethoric variety or the result of disease. The 
third type is purely a pathological and degenerative one which 
occurs in children. The second type passes into a hydraemic 
variety in which the circulation still further fails and the tissues 
are more or less waterlogged. 

The influence of heredity is very marked in simple obesity. 
Just as we find a tendency to the prolongation of life to extreme 
old age in some families, so we may find a constitutional tendency 
to obesity in others. In quite half the cases such an inherited 
tendency is present. Some individuals will get fat on a 
limited diet, whereas others will eat largely of all kinds of 
food and yet remain thin. The fattening process is not merely 
a question of diet. In the animal world these inherited 
tendencies are developed by selective breeding. 

Age, sex, temperament, occupation and climatic conditions 
are all factors affecting obesity. A dietary which is sufficient 
for the needs of the body in a cold climate or during vigorous 
bodily labour, will prove much too liberal during idleness or in 
hot weather, and the extra food is liable to be deposited in the 
tissues as fat. It is quite rare to see a fat agricultural labourer, 
for his diet is limited and his output of energy large. It is quite 
common to see a fat brewer's drayman, for his work is compara- 
tively light and his consumption of beer is usually excessive. 

In infancy a moderate degree of obesity is natural, for the food 



458 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

supply is good and bodily activity small in the early months of 
life. Excessive fatness in the breast-fed babe is almost invariably 
due to an excess of lactose or fat in the milk supply. Sometimes 
there is an inherited tendency also. Dr. G. A. Sutherland found, 
in the case of a baby who weighed 28 Ib. at seven months of age, 
that the mother's milk contained 8' 2 per cent of lactose. The 
excess of fat rapidly disappeared after weaning. In bottle-fed 
infants the diet is generally too rich in fat, from added cream, or in 
carbo-hydrates due to the addition of some one or other of the 
proprietary foods, usually a malted preparation. This excessive 
fatness is regarded by many mothers as a sign of health and 
strength. As a matter of fact it is distinctly injurious. It pre- 
disposes to eczema and other skin diseases, to bronchitis, and to 
bowing of the legs from the undue weight of the body. These 
very fat babies seem to have deficient vital resistance and to 
stand acute disease badly. Another danger is that of acidosis 
or acetonsemia on the administration of anaesthetics. Some 
are anaemic and others may show signs of scurvy. 

In youth, especially about puberty, a moderate degree of 
fatness should be present as an indication that the food supply 
is sufficient for growth as well as nutrition. Undue fatness is 
generally combined with the hereditary tendency, excessive 
greediness, eating between meals and a large consumption of 
sweets. It is more common in girls than boys because of their 
more sedentary life and the feminine tendency to a general 
deposit of fat, aesthetically charming in moderation. Yorke-Davis 
reported the case of a boy, five years old, weighing 117 Ib., who 
was fairly intelligent and ate all day. His parents and their 
other children were normal. Many similar cases are on record. 

In the animal world it is difficult to produce fatness during 
the period of growth. Calves and lambs are easily kept fat while 
taking milk, but when they are turned out to live on the ordinary 
diet of the fields they do not store up fat as a rule, any excess of 
food being devoted to growth. After full growth has been attained 
they can be readily fattened if the diet is suitable ; so, too, in 
the human race. Once full growth is attained, fat will be deposited 
if any excessive intake of potential energy in the form of carbon- 
containing foods is not counterbalanced by the output of kinetic 



DIET IN OBESITY 459 

energy in the form of exercise or work. Up to middle age life 
is active and metabolism correspondingly rapid. After forty 
the adult tends to become less energetic, more placid in his mode 
of existence, and to put on fat because of the deficient metabolism. 
This is still more evident in the female than in the male. Increase 
in age is often accompanied by increase in material prosperity, 
greater luxury in diet, and reduction in work or exercise. The 
working-class woman eats more, drinks more, and works less. 
She is better clothed and takes a tram or 'bus instead of walking. 
Among the richer classes the tendency of increased prosperity 
is towards a reduction in the expenditure of energy in moving 
about, a diet which is certainly no less liberal and nutritious and 
often more dainty and tempting, and frequently an increased 
consumption of alcoholic drinks. 

People who eat largely and take little exercise without getting 
fat may be fortunate in that they can indulge freely in the plea- 
sures of the table. The individual with a tendency to obesity 
must not be tempted to follow such an example and will have 
to be rigidly careful. Instinct and craving are untrustworthy 
guides. The digestive, absorptive and assimilative capacities 
vary very greatly in different subjects, but the final conclusion 
on the study of obesity is that, with rare exceptions, it is mainly 
due to an excess in the food supply, and that it is only on these 
lines it can be successfully treated. The general principles of 
diet which will now be considered are those appropriate to simple 
obesity, and must be modified in accordance with the particular 
patient, the age, the mode of life, and especially in those instances 
which are pathological in origin or have developed pathological 
changes. Occasionally it is necessary to reduce the excessive 
fat quickly. More often it is quite sufficient and much safer to 
reduce it slowly. 

Treatment resolves itself, therefore, into strict limitation of 
the diet, exclusion or limitation of alcoholic drinks, light cloth- 
ing and cool rooms, cold bathing, and plenty of exercise. Exer- 
cise augments consumption, but it increases appetite and is in- 
sufficient, by itself, to counteract excessive eating. The loss of 
heat from the surface of the body is an adjunct, though not a 
very powerful one, in the consumption of fat. Finally, having 



460 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

reduced the obesity to reasonable limits, a minimum diet must be 
established to prevent re-accumulation. 

Fat is a carbon mixture. All the food-stuffs, viz., proteins, 
fats, and carbo-hydrates contain carbon. That fat in the body 
can be derived from protein in the food is shown by the deposition 
of fat in carnivorous animals and the fattening properties of nitro- 
genous foods in the feeding of cattle. In the ripening of cheese 
some of the protein is converted into fat. Chiefly, however, the 
fat is derived from the fats and carbo-hydrates in the diet. As a 
rule, it is the latter rather than the former which are to blame in 
excessive obesity, but the effects vary in different individuals. 
The essential feature in the diet is a diminution in the carbon in 
the food, either in the form of fat or carbo-hydrate. It is not 
necessary to combine this with an increase in the consumption of 
proteins. The excess of protein food may lead to ills worse than 
mere obesity. An excessive protein dietary has been supposed 
to cause increased oxidation and consumption of fat. There is 
no reliable proof of this supposition. More probably the wasting 
of the patient fed on such a diet is due to the deficient supply of 
carbon-containing food and to disordered metabolism, a patho- 
logical rather than a physiological mode of reducing obesity. 
An increase in the consumption of green vegetable food is advis- 
able, for such foods are comparatively innutritious and by their 
bulk give a feeling of fullness. 

Alcohol should be avoided, for it is a fat-sparer. The malt 
liquors are particularly unsuitable, for they contain a distinct 
amount of carbo-hydrate, some of them, e.g. AUsop's lager, cider 
and champagne perry, in the very considerable amounts of 5 to 11 
per cent. 

It is obvious that no diet can be at once devised which will 
suit every patient. We must take into consideration several 
facts. The weight of the individual varies and his metabolism 
varies under different conditions of life and environment. The 
metabolism of different people is variable. The tendency to 
obesity is not entirely dependent on the food supply. It is quite 
possible to reduce the supply of carbon-containing foods to a 
considerable extent and yet to find an actual increase in the 
obesity, because of improved digestion, absorption and assimila- 



DIET IN OBESITY 461 

tion. Such a result shows that deposition of fat can only take 
place at a certain rate, and cannot be regulated so as to vary 
directly with the food supply. Some of these cases of obesity 
in people on a limited diet have been regarded as morbid, the 
result of defective metabolism and imperfect oxidation, but they 
should rather be looked upon as resembling animals who thrive 
on little food. In the farmyard it is constantly found that some 
breeds of pigs fatten much more quickly and on much less food 
than other varieties. Further, we have to consider the effects 
of age, sex, temperament, occupation, climate and environment. 

Hence, each case must be treated on its merits. Primarily 
it is essential to weigh the patient ; to make a thorough physical 
examination, paying special attention to the circulatory and 
excretory organs, general health, vigour and absence of disease ; 
to inquire into the family and the past history ; and to ascertain 
carefully the habits as to food, sleep, work and exercise. Examine 
the urine, for a deficient excretion of urea and uric acid contra- 
indicates a liberal protein diet. The hereditary cases are the ones 
which benefit least from dietetic treatment. The self-indulgent 
individuals of the richer classes are the ones least likely to stick 
sufficiently long and rigidly to the dietetic restrictions necessary 
for permanent cure. 

There are two methods of limiting the diet. In the first, the 
ordinary daily diet for a week must be weighed and then the 
quantities of the various constituents, according to which are 
excessive, must be reduced and the patient weighed weekly. 
In the second method, the number of calories of heat required 
for the patient, according to the age, weight and occupation, 
must be calculated. A diet containing food-stuffs to supply this- 
amount is given for a week, and the amount is then reduced 
weekly in accordance with the effect on nutrition. It will be 
necessary to consider the calorific requirements of the normal 
diet. 

I. The mildest cases of obesity, namely those of middle-aged 
men or women who are getting fatter than they care about, 
can be treated on very simple lines. It may be quite sufficient 
for the patient to omit sugar from the diet, replacing it by sac- 
charin or saxin for sweetening purposes. The next step is reduc- 



462 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tion in the amount of bread, potatoes and other starchy foods. 
Alcoholic drinks should be limited or reduced in amount, and the 
total amount of fluids should be kept within reasonable limits. 
The omission of fluids at meal times may be an advantage. Next, 
the amount of fat taken should be reduced and cream entirely 
omitted. Finally, white bread can be replaced by the less 
nutritious wholemeal bread or partly by gluten bread or other 
anti-diabetic products. 

Treatment on these lines is suitable for mild cases in people 
who can live an open air life, taking plenty of exercise, and not 
needing supervision ; for those who can or must continue their 
usual avocations ; in the presence of any morbid state which 
renders rapid reduction inadvisable ; and as a preparation for 
more serious methods. 

II. The majority of patients who apply for treatment are 
not satisfied with such simple advice. Though they may realize 
its value they will not control their appetites sufficiently to carry 
it out. Some of these can be more strongly influenced by rigid 
directions as to diet, the nature and amount of each meal, the 
weighing of the food and the record thereof, the weekly visit to 
the doctor, and the weekly weighing. Considerable reduction 
in the amount of fluid should be insisted on at first so that the 
loss of weight may be considerable and the patient favourably 
influenced, though the actual reduction in fat is slight. Still 
more likely are they to carry out directions if they pay in advance 
an unnecessarily high and inclusive fee for a course of treatment 
lasting for six weeks to three months or more. Unfortunately, 
even under these conditions, the favourable results are often 
merely temporary, for the obese seem much less able than the 
ordinary individual to resist the pleasures of the table. Most 
of the special diets are more or less starvation ones. 

The calorie value and food requirements of a normal diet. 
The calorie value of protein is 4*1, fat 9*3, and carbo-hydrate 4'1 
(Rubner) per gramme. More recently Atwater has calculated 
these values at protein 4'4, fat 9'1, carbo-hydrate 4'1. Rubner's 
figures are the ones generally adopted. On a basis of these 
figures 100 grammes of fat are equivalent to 227 grammes of 
protein or carbo-hydrate. 



DIET EN OBESITY 



A man weighing 70 kilos (11 stone) requires 40 calories of 
heat per kilo, or a total of 2,800 calories. This would be supplied 
by such diets as : 



Calories. 


Grms. 


Diet. 


Grms. 


Calorie*. 


410 


100 


Protein 


120 


492 


837 
1,640 


90 

400 


Fat 
Carbo-hydrate 
Alcohol 


160 
170 
30 


1,395 
697 
210 


2,887 


2,794 



Rubner has estimated the number of calories required by a 
man of 70 kilos weight as 32'9 per kilo when resting, and 34'9, 
41 -0, 48'0, or 68'4 per kilo, according to the increase in the 
amount of the daily labour ; the total number of calories rising 
from 2,303 to 4,790. 

These figures afford a useful basis of computation for the 
suitable diet of any particular case. Anything beyond this 
may be stored up as fat, even an extra daily food supply of 200 
calories taken in the form of about \ pint of milk, 1 oz. of butter, 
2 of cheese, 3 of bread, 3 or 4 of meat, or f of a pint of beer. 

A study of experimental dietaries shows that the food taken 
daily should supply from 2,500 to 3,000 calories of heat ; that in 
many circumstances a smaller amount is sufficient ; that with 
increased work an increased amount is made use of. The total 
diet depends on the physique, the work and the result. In apply- 
ing these facts to a case of obesity the calorie value of the food 
should be reduced at first by one-fifth, by the omission of sugar 
and alcohol from the diet and an increase in the exercise 
taken. By reducing the amount of bread and potato the 
calorie value can be reduced a further one-fifth. If it is 
desired to reduce the calorie value three-fifths, to 1,000 to 1,500 
per diem, the patient at first must be kept in bed. Chittenden 
found 1,600 calories sufficient for a man of 5 7' 5 kilos weight, 
that is, less than 30 calories per kilo of body-weight. As shown 
above, the number of calories needed per kilo, of body-weight 
varies with the output of energy of the individual, the external 
temperature, and other factors. 



464 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Certain special diets have been advocated for the treatment 
of obesity. Their description, advantages and drawbacks must 
be considered carefully before adopting any one of them. 

1. Banting's diet was devised for him by Dr. Harvey. It 
consisted of animal food, 13-16 oz. ; bread, 2 oz. ; fruit and vege- 
tables, 6-12 oz. ; total fluid, 35 oz. 

9 a.m A large cup, 9 oz., of tea without milk or sugar. 

One oz. of toast or a little biscuit ; 4-6 oz. of 
beef, mutton, kidneys or broiled fish. 

2 p.m Two or three glasses, 10 oz., of claret, sherry or 

madeira. One oz. of dry toast ; 5-6 oz. of 
lean meat, poultry, game or fish ; any vegetable 
except potato, parsnip, carrot, turnip or beet- 
root ; unsweetened cooked fruit out of a pudding. 

6 p.m A large cup of plain tea, 9 oz. ; 2 or 3 oz. of cooked 

fruit, and toast or a rusk or two. 

9 p.m A glass or two, 7 oz., of claret or sherry and water ; 

3 or 4 oz. of meat or fish as at dinner. 

A glass of grog, without sugar, or a glass or two of claret or sherry 
was allowed as a nightcap. 

Not allowed. Pork or veal ; eels, salmon and herrings ; cham- 
pagne, port and beer ; certain vegetables above mentioned. 

There is no apparent reason for not allowing veal, its calorie 
value being little higher than beef and much lower than mutton. 
According to some analyses the percentages of fat in meats are : 
veal 16, mutton 5, beef 3. If this is always so veal is the least 
suitable. The amount varies in all meats with the fatness of the 
animal or bird. Water is not limited and should be taken in 
considerable quantities to aid in the elimination of the products 
of protein metabolism. The excessive amount of protein food 
throws an unnecessary and serious strain on the kidneys. A pro- 
longed diet of this nature is liable to set up dyspepsia and intes- 
tinal disturbance, debility, nervousness, depression and insomnia. 
Metabolically it is unsound, for an excessively high amount of 
protein has to be taken and broken up to supply heat and energy, 
in place of the fat and carbo-hydrate foods which are so strictly 
limited. Even then only about 1,100 calories of heat are pro- 
duced, and protein tissue metabolism will prove insufficient and 
fail. Another objection is the alcohol. It is unnecessary. 
Unless the wines recommended are of good quality they are liable 



DIET IN OBESITY 465 

to impair the digestion and cause rapid loss of weight. Probably, 
unless there are special indications for its use, it would be better 
to omit them entirely and allow instead some fat and more carbo- 
hydrates. Sufficient fat and carbo-hydrate should be given to 
maintain nitrogenous equilibrium. Then, any increase in the 
metabolism of non-nitrogenous substances, the result of exercise 
or cold, etc., would reduce the amount of fat in the body. 

2. Ebstein's diet is a modification of Banting's, containing 
more fat and less protein. The carbo-hydrates are much res- 
tricted, but a liberal allowance of fat is given on the grounds that 
it is more satisfying and less fattening. 

6-7.30 a.m. . . Plain tea, 8-9 oz., and 2 oz. of well-toasted bread 

with plenty of butter. 
2 p.m Soup, made with beef marrow ; fat meat, 4J to 

5 oz., with fat sauce ; green vegetables ; 

fresh fruit ; 2 or 3 glasses of a light white wine. 
Tea Same as at breakfast. Or merely a cup of plain 

tea is allowed after the midday meal. 
7.30 p.m. . . . Tea ; one egg ; fat roast meat or ham ; smoked 

fish ; 1 oz. of bread with plenty of butter ; 

a little cheese ; fresh fruit. 

About 3 oz. of bread is allowed daily ; of vegetables, asparagus, 
spinach, cabbage and legumes are permitted ; potatoes, sugar 
and sweets are forbidden. 

3. Hirschf eld's diet is much like Ebstein's, except in contain- 
ing only half the quantity of fat. 

Breakfast. . . . Plain coffee and 2 oz. of bread. 

Forenoon .... Two eggs. 

Dinner .... Soup with 2 oz. of rice, weighed before cooking ; 

8 oz. of lean meat, boiled or roasted, with a 

little fat. 

Afternoon . . . Black coffee. 
Supper .... Cream cheese, 2 oz. ; bread, 4 oz. ; butter, $ oz. 

4. Oertel's diet : 

MINIMUM DIET. MAXIMUM DIET. 

7-8 a.m. Coffee, 120 ; milk, 30 ; This contains the same as tho 

2 soft-boiled eggs or lean meat, minimum diet and certain additions. 

50-100 ; bread, 25. Meat, 100 ; Butter, 12 ; bread, 

35-70. 

10-11 a.m. Clear soup or water, Or light wine, 100. 
100, or port wine, 50. Cold 
meat or lean ham, 50 ; rye 
bread, 20. 

30 



466 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

MINIMUM DIET. MAXIMUM DIET. 

1 p.m. Wine and water, 200 ; Wine, 250. 

soup, 0-100 ; roast beef, 150 ; Beef, 50 more. 

or beef boiled with fat, 150 ; Salad, 25 more. 

green salad, 25 ; green vege- Roll of bread, 25. 

tables, 50 ; f arinaceous pudding, 

100 ; or rye bread, 20 ; fresh 

fruit, 100. 

4 p.m. Coffee, 80 ; milk, 20. Coffee, 120 ; milk, 30. 

Evening. Wine, 200 or water, Wine, 250 ; water, 100-150 ; 

250 ; 2 soft-boiled eggs or Caviar, 12, or smoked salmon, 

lean roast meat, 150 ; salad, 18 ; game, fowl or beef -steak, 

25 ; rye bread, 20 ; cheese, instead of roast beef, 150. 

15; fruit, 100. 

Note. The quantities are given in grammes. One ounce is equivalent 
to 30 grammes. Saccharin is used for sweetening. Fruit is not always 
allowed. The diet is combined with exercises, active or passive, to 
strengthen the heart. In fatty accumulation about this organ the amount 
of liquid, fat and carbo-hydrates in the diet are still more reduced. 

5. Schweninger modified this diet a little, chiefly in respect 
of fluids, which he only permitted to be drunk one to two hours 
after meals, and he allowed more carbo-hydrates, but less fat. 

Morning .... Tea or coffee, 6 oz., with a little milk ; bread, 3 oz. 

Noon Soup, 3-4 oz. ; beef, veal, game or poultry, 7-8 

oz. ; salad or light vegetable ; sometimes a 
little fish cooked without fat ; bread, 1 oz. ; 
farinaceous pudding, 1-3 oz. ; fresh fruit, 3-6 
oz. ; light wine, 6-8 oz. (not necessary in cold 
weather or if fresh fruit is taken). 

Afternoon . . . Tea or coffee, 6 oz. ; occasionally bread, 1 oz. 

Supper .... One or two soft-boiled eggs ; bread, 1 oz. ; per- 
haps a small slice of cheese, salad and fruit, wine, 
6-8 oz. with water, 4-5 oz. 

6. Schleicher's diet is on the same lines, but fluid is not abso- 
lutely excluded at meals, and more meals are taken. 

7 a.m Mutton or veal cutlet or a portion of sole, as big 

as the palm of the hand, and as much bread. 

8 a.m A cup of tea with sugar. 

10.30 a.m. ... A sandwich of bread and meat or sausage. 
Noon .... Meat, eggs, green vegetables, cheese, orange. 
Two glasses of white wine. 

4 p.m Tea with sugar. 

7 p.m A small quantity of bread and cheese. 

9 p.m Cold meat, eggs, salad, and two glasses of wine. 

7. The Salisbury diet is sometimes adopted. Towers Smith 
advocated a diet on these lines, viz., rump steak 3 Ibs., cod-fish 
1 lb., and 6 pints daily of hot water for period of two weeks. 
During the next three weeks the hot water is reduced to 4 pints, 



DIET IN OBESITY 



467 



and other kinds of lean meat and fish are allowed, also green vege- 
tables and unsweetened rusks. Subsequently, for months, the diet 
should consist of hot water 1 pint, crusts of stale bread, captains' 
biscuits, grilled meat, poultry or game, and hock or claret with 
seltzer water. Five grains of bicarbonate of potash are given 
night and morning. 

This diet is open to the same objections as the Banting diet. 
The Salisbury cure is described in the chapter on Special Diets 
and Diet Cures. 

8. von Noorden prefers numerous small meals. 

8 a.m Cold lean meat, 3 oz. ; bread, 1 oz. ; tea or coffee, 

with a spoonful of milk and no sugar. 

10 a.m One egg. 

12 a.m A cupful of strong soup without fat. 

1 p.m A small plate of clear soup ; lean meat or fish, 5 

oz. ; potato, 3 oz. ; green vegetables ; fresh 
fruit, 3 oz. 

3 p.m A cup of black coffee. 

4 p.m Fresh fruit, 7 oz. 

6 p.m A glass of skimmed milk. 

8 p.m Cold lean meat, 4 oz., with pickles ; Graham 

bread, 1 oz. ; 2-3 spoonfuls of fruit cooked 
without sugar. 
Two glasses of wine are allowed daily. 

9. Hoffman's diet consists of protein and fat, in four meals. 
Plasmon, nutrose, etc., can be added. Calorie value 2,000-2,500. 

1. Milk, 200 ; cream, 50 ; meat, 100 ; 2 eggs, butter. 

2. Meat, 200 ; peas and greens. 

3. Milk, 200 ; cream, 50. 

4. Ham and 4 eggs. 

ANALYSIS OF SPECIAL DIETS. 
(Amounts are given in grammes.) 





Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Calorie*. 


Oertel (maximum) 
Hirschfeld (maximum) .... 
von Noorden 


170 
139 
155 


45 
65 
28 


120 
167 
112 


1,608 
1,400 
1,366 


Ebstein ' 


102 


85 


47 


1,300 


Oertel (minimum) 


156 
172 


25 

8 


75 
81 


1,180 
1,100 


Hirschfeld (minimum) .... 


100 


41 


50 


1,000 



The obvious objection to all these diets lies in the high pro- 
portion of protein. Average diets such as those of v. Ranke, 



468 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



Moleschott, and Pettenkofer and Voit contain from -100 to 137 
grammes of protein, or 15' 5 to 19' 5 of nitrogen. Chittenden has 
shown that in professional men, soldiers and athletes, a diet 
containing about half the above amounts of protein and nitrogen, 
or even less, is sufficient to maintain nitrogenous equilibrium. 
It is, therefore, a most irrational proceeding to give the obese an 
excess of protein food to provide the calories of heat required. 
It is much more rational, besides being physiologically sound, to 
reduce all the different constituents of the diet to such an extent 
that the relative proportions are maintained, but the calorie value 
is brought down to 1,500-2,000, or even lower in suitable cases. 
In order to meet these requirements recourse must be had to a 
free supply of foods containing very little nutriment, such as the 
vegetables, and the calorie value of different foods must be studied. 

THE CALORIE VALUE OF COMMON FOODS PER OUNCE. 
Meat, fish and cereals are cooked. Vegetables are boiled. 



0-5. 


5-10. 


10-20. 


20-30. 


30-40. 


40-50. 


50-60 


Vegetable 


Asparagus 


Leeks 


Potatoes 


Baked 


Dried peas 


Sprats 


marrow 


Broccoli 


Salsify 




beans 




Salmon 


Spinach 


Artichoke 


Green 


Cherries 


Lentils 


Whole egg 


Herring 


Seakale 


Broad 


artichoke 


Prunes 






Tunny 


Onion 


beans 


Petit pois 


Figs 


Macaroni Mackerel 




Turnip 


Green peas 


Haricot 


Grapes 


Scotch 


Brill 


Chicken 


Savoy 


Brussel 


beans 


Bananas 


oatmeal 


Lobster 


(fricasseed) 


cabbage 


sprouts 


Beetroot 






(potted) 




Cauliflower 




(uncooked) 


Crab 


Haddock 


Crab 




Parsnip 






(tinned) 


Gurnet 


(potted) 




Beetroot 




Strawberry 


Lobster 


Trout 






Carrot 


Water 


Pine-apple (tinned) 


Roach 






Scarlet 


melon 


Lemon 


Smelts 


Red mullet 






runner 




Cranberry 


Dory 


Halibut 






(Uncooked) 




Orange 


Sole 








Celery 




Raspberry 


Whiting 








Cucumber 




Blackberry 


Plaice 








Lettuce 




Apricot 


Turbot 








Tomato 




Apple 


Cod 








Radish 




Pear 


Lemon 












Nectarine 


sole 








Butter- 


Whey 












milk 




Benger's 














food 














(cooked) 














Most farin- 


Tea 






Coffee 






aceous 


Jam 


Jam 










foods 


Milk 












Koumiss 














Egg-white 














Hake 











DIET IN OBESITY 



469 



60-70. 


70-80. 


80-90. 


90-100. 


100-125. 


Over 125. 


Breads 


Arrowroot 


Sardines 


Roast pork 


Egg yolk 


Bacon (ribs) 


Daren 


Breads 


Roast turkey 




Polony 




Manhu 


White 


Mutton(legs 


Brie cheese 


Roastmutton 


Stilton 


Cytos 


Bermaline 


roast or 


Parmesan 


Uncooked 


cheese 


Hovis 


Graham 


boiled) 


cheese 


cereals 


Neuchatel ,, 


Brown 




Ham 










Pork sausage 




Currants 


Milk 


Pea-nuta 


Salt herrings 


German 


Cheese 


(dried) 




Sweet 


Eels 




Dutch 


Figs 


Cream cheese 


almonds 


Roast lamb 




Camemberl 


(dried) 


Gorgonzola 




Roast beef 






Filberts 


Cheddar 


Cocoas 


Veal cutlets 




Chestnuts 




Guyere 


Chocolate 


Roast veal 








Cheshire 






Toffee 


Treacle 


Maple sugar 


Gloucester 


Butter 










American 












Roquefort , 












Raisins 












Dates 












Walnuts 












Cocoa-nut 












Cane sugar 












Beet sugar 












Honey 





In urgent cases and in fat anaemic women complete rest in 
bed, milk and massage should be tried. At first skimmed milk 
is added to the ordinary diet and then finally substituted entirely 
for it. The quantity is reduced until the patient loses about half 
a pound daily. The pulse, temperature and weight must be care- 
fully watched and the diet increased, if necessary. The milk 
cure, really a starvation method, may be adopted (vide p. 175). - 

Reference to the preceding table enables one to draw up a 
diet suitable for the obese in quantity and variety and yet not 
containing an undue proportion of nutritive material. The 
following dietary may be adopted as a basis, being modified 
according to the bulk and age of the patient, the mode of life, 
and the progress of the case. 

A SPECIAL DIET. 

7-7.30 a.m. . . . One orange, apple or pear. Half a pint of water. 

8-8.30 a.m. . . . Tea, 5-6 oz. ; milk, $ oz. ; sweetened with saccharin. 
One or two boiled or poached eggs. Dry 
toast or bread, 1-li oz. ; butter, J oz. 

11-11.30 a.m. . . Clear soup or butter-milk, 8-10 oz. 

1-1.30 p.m. . . . Cold fowl, game, lean meats, ham or tongue, or 
hot lamb cutlet or sweetbread, 3-4 oz. ; salad, 
1 oz. ; Dutch cheese, J oz. ; celery, radishes, 
etc. ; rye, brown, bran or gluten bread, J to 1 
oz. ; butter, $ oz. ; fresh fruit or water, 4-6 oz. 



470 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

4.40 p.m. ... A large cup of plain tea, with a dessertspoonful of 
milk ; one piece of dry toast or bread and jam, 
or eaten with lettuce, mustard and cress, or 
tomato. 

7.30 p.m. . . . Clear soup, 4 oz. ; fish, cooked without butter, 
or any kind of meat, game or poultry, except 
pork, 4-6 oz. ; green vegetables, of a calorie 
value not exceeding 5 per oz., ad lib., or smaller 
amounts of those with a higher calorific value, 
say 1-2 oz. ; farinaceous pudding, 3-4 oz. ; 
water melon or the cooked unsweetened fruit 
out of a tart ; dry toast or various breads, 1 oz.; 
butter, J oz. ; water, 4-6 oz. ; a glass of hot 
water at bed-time. 



If white bread is used in the above diet, the calorie value will 
vary from a minimum of about 1,100 to a maximum of about 
1,500. The chief protein-containing foods are rather high, varying 
between 8 and 10| oz. (240-300 grammes). Ranke gives as a nor- 
mal diet, meat 240, fat 100, bread 400, water 300-400 grammes. 
This is a very simple diet, supplying between 2,000 and 2,500 
calories. It is easy to regulate, for the quantities can be reduced 
at will, but its sameness renders it unpalatable after a short time. 

On the whole it is advisable to make use of the diet above 
recommended, as a start. Grilled fish can take the place of eggs. 
If N-excretion is defective, if the patient is not fond of meat or 
can do with less, or if satisfied with a more vegetarian diet, the 
meat can be reduced in quantity at the evening meal and altogether 
omitted with advantage at the midday meal, and a liberal help- 
ing of cooked string beans, celery, onions, cabbage and such like, 
be given instead. It is important to remember that the nutri- 
tive value of vegetables depends greatly on the system of cooking. 
It is lowest when they are boiled and the fluid in which they are 
cooked is drained away. This applies especially to the tubers, 
many of which are rich in carbo-hydrates, which are dissolved 
out by hot water or weak saline fluids. Fats and carbo-hydrates 
can be allowed more liberally to the plethoric than in anaemic 
and hydraemic patients. 

General directions must be given to each patient No sugar 
should be used ; even an ordinary lump has a calorie value of 
15-20. Food should be masticated very slowly. This ensures 
thorough insalivation and is especially necessary to render cellu- 



DIET IN OBESITY 471 

lose foods digestible. It has the further and important effect 
of considerably reducing the appetite and encouraging a taste 
for the simpler foods. In choosing the particular articles of 
food, those should be avoided which contain much fat, e.g. eels, 
salmon, lobster, crab, sardines, herrings and mackerel among 
fish and Crustacea ; pork and goose, and fat meats among flesh 
foods ; nuts and fats, such as butter, cream, olive oil. Potatoes 
should be omitted, or taken in very small quantities. Milk must 
not be used as a drink. Most fresh fruits, except bananas, can 
be taken in moderation, and many of the green vegetables in large 
quantities. The ligamentum nuchae of the ox is recommended 
by Sternberg as an additional food which is appetising, filling 
and innutritious. It should be boiled in saline solution until 
quite soft, minced very finely and dried into a fine grey powder, 
which can be made up into tablets or small loaves. Many anti- 
diabetic foods are also of value. Meals should be small and 
numerous. 

For a few days it is advisable to weigh the different articles 
of food, but after that an intelligent individual can estimate suffi- 
ciently accurately what are the quantities ordered of meat, 
bread, etc. Rigid accuracy is not essential, for the conditions 
of life vary from hour to hour and day by day. It is best to keep 
to a simple diet, with comparatively little variety, for variety is 
a stimulant to appetite. 

Clear soups are unnecessary and innutritious, but may be 
taken fairly often ; so, too, plain tea and coffee. Their stimulat- 
ing effects are often useful, provided there is no centra-indication 
to the taking of purins. In a few instances, though expensive, 
it may be possible to estimate and establish nitrogenous equili- 
brium and then regulate the amount of fat and carbo-hydrate 
foods. The calorie value of the diet can be reduced to one half 
without causing any material increase in N- excretion. The 
reduction in the diet must be combined with exercise to maintain 
the nutrition of protein tissues. 

The minimum amount of nitrogen required in food should 
be three to four times the amount excreted during hunger. But 
a minimum amount is not desirable, as it leaves no store for 
emergencies, and protein tissues are only built up slowly. In 



472 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

addition, the protein foods contain phosphorus and sulphur salts 
which are essential. Fat, carbo-hydrates and gelatin are protein 
sparers. Hence a diet liberal in these constituents need only 
contain a minimum, or slightly greater amount of protein. 

The methods of computation of food requirements are based 
on the percentage composition of the various foods or on their 
calorie value per ounce. Irving Fisher has recently devised a new 
system in which he takes a unit of food value, called a standard 
portion, of each kind of food. This standard portion is the 
amount of the particular food which will yield 100 calories. Thus, 
on a basis of 3 - 3 per cent of protein in milk a standard portion 
of milk is 4*9 fluid oz. and of the 100 calories in it 19 are from 
protein, 52 fat, and 28 carbo-hydrate. By comparison, nuts 
contain 11 per cent of protein, but \ oz. of nuts forms a standard 
portion and the calorie-protein in it is only six. Fisher has 
drawn up tables of the calorie values of the protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate of standard portions of different foods and has devised a 
diagrammatic map of these foods and their values. 

Fluids and alcoholic drinks. Dancel devised a diet in which 
the amount of fluid ingested was much reduced, on the assump- 
tion that excess of fluid increased corpulence. He only allowed 
from 6-12 oz., gave purges, ordered much exercise, and abstinence 
from fatty and farinaceous foods. There is no doubt that the 
amount of fluid should be limited, but not very rigidly. Limita- 
tion does not affect the metabolism of fat. The interdiction of 
fluid at meal times leads to less food being taken, because mastica- 
tion takes longer and the patient is more easily satisfied. It 
may impair 'appetite unduly. Liquids with food dilute gastric 
juice and may affect protein digestion. From 1| to 3 pints may 
be allowed in twenty-four hours, and it should be reduced to the 
smaller amount, if possible without injury. Small quantities at 
meals and a glassful night and morning are satisfactory amounts. 
The quantity must not be unduly reduced if the weather is hot 
and there is much sweating, or if a large amount of protein food 
is taken. Strict limitation is valuable if the circulation is feeble 
in chlorotic and hydrsemic cases, and for the sake of the mental 
effects at the commencement of treatment. Saline, alkaline 
and effervescent drinks, unsweetened ; hot weak china tea, coffee 



DIET IN OBESITY 473 



and occasionally cocoa, are admissible drinks. Alcohol should 
not be given unless there are special indications, such as an 
enfeebled circulation and general debility. It is a fat sparer, 
causes deficient oxidation and favours fatty degeneration of pro- 
tein tissues. Dry hock, Moselle and claret are the most 
suitable wines. Sweet wines and malt liquors are not permitted, 
and spirits in only small quantities. 

Subsidiary methods. Saline cathartics and the aperient 
waters of various health resorts, such as Kissingen, Homburg, 
Marienbad and Carlsbad, act chiefly as starvation cures. They 
are often useful at the beginning of treatment in plethoric patients. 
Many of these keep well for years on an annual course of spa- 
treatment. The peptones and fats are evacuated before full 
absorption has had time to take place. Unfortunately the effects 
are rarely more than temporary, for the patient feels weakened 
by the drain on the system, is often sent to a bracing place to 
recover, and builds himself up with a liberal diet. In the 
hydrsemic cases, kept in bed, moderate purgation is useful. 

Bed treatment is essential in the hydrsemic patients, in many 
anaemic ones, and when the calorie value of the diet is suddenly 
much reduced, especially in the milk cure. Estimations of the 
number of red cells, the haemoglobin and the specific gravity 
of the blood serum will assist in the diagnosis of the progress of 
the case. Thyroid treatment is only justifiable when there is 
evidence of myxoedema. It may cause toxic symptoms. On 
account of it increasing N-excretion, it is dangerous except as a 
temporary measure. It should never be relied on as a substitute 
for diet. 

Proprietary remedies. There is no drug which will reduce 
the body-weight except by its effects on metabolism, usually 
acting by impairing the functions of the digestive organs. The 
expensive remedies advertised for the cure of obesity are useless 
and generally harmless, unless they upset the digestion. An 
immediate reduction in weight is not guaranteed, and it is often 
stated that no marked loss will occur for two to four weeks. In 
fact the treatment must be prolonged in order to benefit the pro- 
prietor. Fortunately thyroid extract is not used, its dangers 
are too great for even the most reckless advertiser. For some 



474 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 


reason or other the bladder- wrack or common seaweed (fucus 

vesiculosus) has a great reputation and enters into the compo- 
sition of several specifics. It may be given in doses of 3 to 6 
drachms daily of the liquid extract, or grs. x-xxx of the extract. 
Cases have been reported in which it has proved beneficial and 
harmless. Citric acid is frequently used, perhaps because of the 
popular idea that lemons, vinegar and acid substances generally, 
prevent obesity. Sulphur and iodide of potassium are often used. 
The composition of many of these specifics and their value have 
been estimated with the following results (British Medical Jour- 
nal, 1907) : 

1. Absorbit Reducing Paste and Zobeide are used by inunc- 
tion and contain five per cent of ox-bile : price 3s. Qd. per 2 oz. 
jar ; value 3d. Amiral soap is a similar substance. 

2. Allan's Anti-fat contains potassium iodide, grs. 0'3, sali- 
cylic acid, gr. 1, and 70 minims of bladder-wrack in each fluid 
ounce : price 65. 6d. for a bottle of 6J oz. ; value 3d. 

3. Antipon consists of citric acid, grs. 40 to the oz. ; dose 
\ oz. three times a day : price 2s. 6d. a bottle of 6 oz. ; value 



4. Mrs. Frost's Anti-Obesity Remedy is an extract of bladder- 
wrack (Hutchison). 

5. Grey's Specific contains 47 per cent of sulphur (Hutchi- 
son). 

6. Hargreave's Reducing Wafers consist chiefly of fucus : 
price Is. l^d. for 21 ; one to be taken three times a day. 

7. Hughes and Hughes's XL Reducing Lotion is for outward 
application and contains iodide, bromide and chloride of potas- 
sium ; price 4s. Qd. for 2 oz. ; value $d. 

8. Hughes and Hughes's Reducing XL Pills contain potassium 
iodide, iron and fucus, two to be taken twice a day ; price 2s. 9d. 
for 28 ; value ld. 

9. J. Z. Obesity Tablets contain 24 per cent of sulphur; price 
2s. for 25 ; value %d. 

10. Russell's Anti-Corpulent Preparation consists of citric 
acid, grs. 37 to the ounce, dose oz. three times daily : 
price 6s. for a 12| oz. bottle ; value 2d. The pink tablets are 
made of saccharin. ^-e 



DIET IN OBESITY 475 

11. Trilene Tablets contain bladder- wrack 3 parts, starch 7, 
and sugar 87 in 100, dose three times daily : price 2s. Qd. for 66, 
value -fad. 

Of course it is impossible to be absolutely accurate in the 
analyses of preparations which may contain vegetable substances, 
but the above results are sufficiently reliable. 



are 



DIET IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS 



CHAPTER XV 

DIET IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS 
BY HARRY CAMPBELL, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS is -a term used to signify a thickening of the 
arterial wall, from whatever cause arising. It may occur in 
either a focal or a diffuse form. 

In the focal form it is known as atheroma. This begins as a 
cellular infiltration of the subendothelial portion of the intima ; 
the cells undergo fatty degeneration, and often the patch becomes 
infiltrated with lime salts. By the running together of several 
such patches the condition known as endarteritis deformans is 
produced. 

Concerning the pathology of atheroma we know next to 
nothing. It was once thought to be due to the obliteration of the 
vasa vasorum, but Cowan has shown this view to be incorrect. 
One factor in its causation stands out, i.e. protracted high blood 
pressure. Except as a senile change it is, indeed, rarely met 
with in subjects displaying low blood pressure. 

The diffuse form of arterio-sclerosis differs from atheroma 
in that it involves the entire circumference, and considerable 
portions of the length, of the vessel. Though it includes several 
distinct varieties, such as syphilitic endarteritis, the term for 
most physicians connotes a generalized thickening of the sys- 
temic arteries, either in consequence of a primary calcareous infil- 
tration some would not include this condition under the 
meaning of the word or an increase in the actual tissue of the 
vessel wall. This increase involves essentially the muscular media. 
When the media only is affected we have the arterial hyper- 
myotrophy of Savill : in the majority of cases, however, the 
intima is thickened ; less frequently, the adventitia. 

Though we are still very ignorant of the pathology of arterio- 

470 



480 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

sclerosis, this much can be postulated of it : it is essentially due 
to the action of some poison, or poisons, circulating in the blood - 
plasma. These poisons may lead to vascular thickening in one 
of two ways : either directly, by causing irritative hyperplasia 
of the fibrous elements of the vessel wall, or indirectly, by induc- 
ing arterial hypertonus. This hypertonus involves the systemic 
arterioles chiefly, though it tends to implicate the entire systemic 
arterial tree, and, if long continued, necessarily leads to hyper- 
trophy of the muscular media. In some cases the structural 
changes in the vessel wall would appear to stop here ; generally, 
however, other changes ensue as the result of the vascular strain 
which is the inevitable outcome of the hypertonus, for it is obvious 
that the contraction of the minute arteries must send up the blood 
pressure in the arteries proximal to them. The strain will 
necessarily be felt chiefly by the media one of the chief func- 
tions of which, indeed, is by its active contraction to resist the 
distensile effect of the blood pressure on the vessel wall and by 
the intima, which in consequence of the pressure to which it is 
subjected not only thickens but tends to undergo atheromatous 
degeneration. The adventitia, on ' the other hand, protected 
as it usually is from the distensile pressure of the blood by the 
actively contracting media, may remain for the most part un- 
changed, even with long-continued hypertonus. It has to be 
remembered, however, that systemic hypertonus is rarely, if 
ever, quite general, 1 and that when, with a widespread systemic 
hypertonus, certain of the arteries remain comparatively relaxed, 
the adventitia of those arteries will, owing to the heightened 
blood pressure, be subjected to considerable stretching of a 



1 It is noteworthy that in the cases of diffuse arterio-sclerosis examined 
by William Russell, the muscular coat of the intra-renal arteries showed 
evidence of atrophy. From this we may conclude that these vessels do 
not share in the generalized arterial hypertonus so frequently met with 
in this condition, but remain, on the contrary, dilated. Such an 
arrangement secures a maximum supply of blood to the kidneys, for 
with the augmented systemic blood pressure there is diminished vascular 
resistance in the kidneys which, being thus abundantly flushed with blood, 
are so much the better able to eliminate the poisons the presence of which 
in the blood is the fons et origo of the arterial phenomenon under considera- 
tion. We have here, in fact, the raison d'etre of the hypertonus and high 
blood pressure met with in arterio-sclerosis. 



DIET IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS 481 

rhythmic character, and will tend in consequence to undergo 
fibrous hyperplasia. 

While insisting on this factor of strain in the production of 
intimal and adventitial thickening, we are not, of course, over- 
looking the direct irritative effect on the vessel wall of morbid 
blood-plasma. That this may be an important factor in the 
etiology of arterio-sclerosis is abundantly shown by the fact that it 
is possible to get a widespread arterial thickening in subjects of 
comparatively low blood pressure. That, however, profound 
changes in the vessel wall necessarily result from the strain of 
long-continued high blood pressure is certain, and this, it need 
scarcely be said, is a fact of great therapeutic importance : prac- 
tically speaking, there is but one cause of supernormal blood- 
pressure, namely, arteriolar hypertonus, and again but one cause 
of sustained hypertonus, namely, some plasmic defect. Wherefore 
it is manifest that in cases of arterial thickening, whether occur- 
ring in connexion with hypertonus or independently of it, our 
aim is to correct the morbid condition of the plasma which is 
responsible for the thickening. 

In each class of case the dietetic indications are the same, but 
it is easier to test the efficacy of our treatment when hypertonus 
is present than when it is absent, seeing that our success in the 
former case is in direct proportion to the degree to which we can 
reduce the hypertonus, and this, happily, we now have ample 
means of gauging. 

While there is no doubt that arterio-sclerosis is essentially 
due to a morbid blood state, we have still much to learn regarding 
the exact plasmic defects capable of producing it. Two classes of 
defect, however, stand out prominently in this connexion 
those which occur in association with chronic renal disease and 
those which result from dietetic errors. It is because the con- 
stitution of the blood-plasma, and through it the condition of the 
blood-vessels, can be profoundly influenced by regulating the 
diet, that the dietetic treatment of arterio-sclerosis is of prime 
importance. 

That arterial hypertonus may be the result of dietetic errors 
there can be no doubt. The latter may operate in one of two 
ways : by causing the blood to be poisoned by the products of 

31 



482 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

disordered digestion, and (when too much food is taken) by 
burdening the tissues with an excess of nutrient material. 

When, as the result of defective digestion in the stomach or 
bowel, the blood is contaminated by the absorption of poisons 
from the digestive tract, the condition may be spoken of as 
indigestion toxaemia, and seeing that the chemistry of indiges- 
tion differs for each of its multitudinous varieties, it is obvious 
that there must be many different varieties of this kind of tox- 
aemia. Of the numerous poisons with which the blood may in 
this way be contaminated some exercise a hypotonic, others a 
hypertomc, or constrictory, effect upon the arteries. 

There can be no doubt that these vaso-constrictor poisons 
play a prominent part in the production of arterio-sclerosis. 
Russell, indeed, contends that they are responsible for most 
cases occurring independently of chronic renal disease, an 
association which gives to indigestion, " especially when asso- 
ciated with constipation, a significance which has not commonly 
been appreciated." The poisons most pernicious in this respect 
are, according to this authority, those resulting from the putre- 
faction of animal protein, a process which in his opinion is greatly 
favoured by constipation. Hence, in order to guard against that 
hypertonus which is the central feature in a large number of cases 
of arterio-sclerosis, the paramount importance of avoiding an 
excess of animal food and of securing a free daily evacuation of 
the bowels must be realized. Vegetable protein and carbo- 
hydrates he deems far less capable of inducing hypertonus than 
animal protein. 

The personal factor has, of course, to be taken into account in 
this connexion, for, as Russell rightly insists, " If the big feeder 
and moderate drinker has a good digestion and free bowel evacua- 
tion daily, he may not develop arterio-sclerosis until late in life, 
while if the spare feeder and teetotaller is a dyspeptic or the 
victim of chronic constipation, he will suffer from premature 
arterial degeneration." 

While emphasizing the prominent part played by indigestion 
toxaemia in the production of arterial hypertonus and the asso- 
ciated sclerosis, we venture to think that Dr. Russell attributes 
to it a too exclusive influence in this direction, and that, apart 



DIET IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS 483 

from renal disease, there are many species of morbid plasma 
capable of inducing protracted hypertonus besides those asso- 
ciated with diet and indigestion. Nor do we share his extreme 
views as to the role of animal as against vegetable food in 
the production of this condition. On the one hand we meet 
with persons who, although eating freely of animal food and 
habitually suffering from indigestion and constipation, yet exhibit 
quite low blood pressure readings ; and, on the other hand, we 
encounter, independently of renal disease, instances of protracted 
hypertonus among persons who consume little animal food, who 
do not suffer from constipation, and who, to all appearances > 
seem to digest their food quite well nay, whose blood pressure 
continues high during complete starvation. 

In considering the effect of diet on vascular tonus we must 
assuredly take account of the vegetable as well as of the animal 
food. There is no reason to suppose that the behaviour of veget- 
able protein in the body differs essentially from that of animal 
protein. Nor can we exonerate the carbo-hydrates from all share 
in the production of hypertonus. They are, as is well known, a 
fruitful source of indigestion, and may, in this way, cause tox- 
aemia, and so hypertonus ; possibly also by giving rise to that 
condition of the blood which Dr. Francis Hare has termed hyper- 
pyrsemia. In any case gouty conditions can often be benefited 
by curtailing the supply of starch and sugar, and although, as 
Sir Clifford Allbutt and others have rightly insisted, there is not 
necessarily a rise of bloodpressure in gout, yet there often is, 
and as a matter of fact it is almost as important to pay attention 
to the carbo-hydrates as to the animal food in the treatment of 
high blood pressure due to dietetic causes. In treating hypertonus 
we may sometimes get better results from a highly animalized 
diet into which starch and sugar enter but sparingly than from a 
purely vegetarian diet, always providing that the total quantity 
of food is moderate. Moderation in diet is, indeed, a prime essen- 
tial in the treatment of high blood pressure, not only because 
it favours efficient digestion and thus tends to minimize the 
danger of indigestion toxaemia, but because the tissues are less 
likely to be clogged with waste products on a moderate diet than 
on one which is excessive. 



484 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

In obstinate forms of hypertonus it may be advisable to put 
the patient on a milk diet. This treatment, especially if conjoined 
with rest in bed, bleeding, and free purgation with mercurials 
and salines, constitutes the most efficient means of reducing a 
dangerously high tension. Milk diet is, however, apt to pall 
after a time ; so also is a milk and farinaceous, or milk, farin- 
aceous, and fish diet ; and we may find that we get better results 
from an ordinary diet, if it is relished, than from any of these, 
always providing that it is moderate in quantity. It is possible 
that fish is less conducive to hypertonus than bird or butcher's 
meat. Some maintain that boiled meat is less objectional in 
this respect than roast, containing as it does a smaller quantity 
of extractives. For a similar reason soups are by some supposed 
to be contra-indicated in subjects of high blood pressure. 

As regards liquors, alcoholic drinks should be either entirely 
avoided or taken very sparingly. It has been definitely proved 
that their immoderate use is a potent cause of arterio-sclerosis, 
as well as of fatty degeneration of the heart. It may not be 
unfitting to mention here that tobacco smoking tends to cause 
arterial hypertonus. 

Water is the best drink for the subjects of high blood pressure. 
It should be moderately soft or distilled, and non-aerated. 
Weak China tea, unsweetened, may also be allowed. In some 
cases it may be necessary, especially in women, to increase the 
daily allowance of fluid ; in others it may be advisable to reduce 
the quantity. The patient should not drink much with his meals 
but should take most of his drink on an empty stomach, about 
an hour before meal time, so as to allow the fluid to be absorbed 
into the blood before a fresh supply of food enters the stomach. 
This plan not only conduces to good digestion by preventing 
an undue dilution of the gastric juices, but allows any excess 
of fluid that may be absorbed to be eliminated from the body 
before a fresh meal passes into the blood. 

How far calcification of the arteries can be averted by dietetic 
measures is, as Sir Clifford Allbutt has said, a contestable point : 
" In the first place calcification of the media is not ' arterio- 
sclerosis ' in the usual sense of this name . . . ; secondly, I do not 
know that if the media has entered upon the stage of necrosis 



DIET IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS 485 

leading to calcification this change is any further detriment. 
Indeed, Ludwig Weil's experiments indicate that thereby the 
vessel is even fortified. In any case, to try to prevent it by 
niggling at the lime in the food is like taking away a man's cash 
and leaving him his cheque-book." 

Inasmuch as in certain affections of the kidney, notably Bright's 
disease, there is an undue retention of chlorides in the system, the 
question suggests itself whether it may not be possible to reduce 
a supernormal blood pressure by means of a saltless diet. All 
that we can say at present is that this plan of treatment appears 
worthy of trial. 

Summary. By arterio-sclerosis is meant either atheroma or 
a diffuse thickening of the arterial wall. Setting aside primary 
calcareous infiltration of the media, which is essentially a senile 
change, most cases of diffuse arterial sclerosis centre round arterial 
hypertonus. This latter, when protracted, indicates a morbid 
condition of the plasma and one which, if long continued, will 
certainly lead to arterio-sclerosis. Hence the importance of 
recognizing hypertonus early. Just so far as we succeed in 
relieving the hypertonus, and so far only, shall we be suc- 
cessful in preventing or checking the occurrence of arterio- 
sclerosis. 

There are probably many morbid conditions of the plasma 
capable of causing hypertonus. One of the most familiar is 
that which occurs in association with granular kidney. Over- 
eating and indigestion may also operate powerfully in the same 
direction, and hence, by careful attention to diet much may be 
done to guard against arterio-sclerosis. 

Accordingly, when this condition is present we prescribe 
a diet which is easily digestible and no more than sufficient to 
meet the demands of nutrition, our object being to secure sound 
digestion and to avoid burdening the tissues with an excess 
of nutriment. Hence our advice to the subject of hypertonus 
practically amounts to this : " Eat in strict moderation what- 
ever plain food you are capable of digesting easily." If this 
advice is stringently followed the patient is not likely to harm 
himself with animal food. We should, however, always inquire 
into the exact amount of animal food taken, and be careful 



486 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

to keep its supply within due limits. On the other hand, we may 
find it needful to curtail the quantity of starch and sugar. 

There can be no doubt that by suitably dieting subjects of 
high blood pressure much may often be done to reduce the pres- 
sure to within normal limits, and that, provided treatment is 
begun sufficiently early, we may in this way prevent the 
occurrence of arterio-sclerosis. Sir Clifford Allbutt, Dr. William 
Russell, and Dr. George Oliver are emphatic on this head. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 



CHAPTER XVI 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STO:vIACH 
BY HERBERT P. HAWKIXS, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

General considerations. The prescription of a diet in gastric 
disorder has a scientific basis. In the first place there is required 
a knowledge of the whole process of digestion and absorption in 
health. It must be realized that digestion and absorption are 
chiefly effected in the intestine, and that the functions of the 
stomach are to prepare the food for intestinal digestion and in 
some degree to disinfect it. For the performance of these func- 
tions food must enter the stomach suitably cooked, and thor- 
oughly divided and mixed with saliva. These elementary points 
should be impressed on all patients. It is important to remember 
that scarcely any absorption takes place in the stomach, only 
alcohol, small amounts of sugar, dextrin, albumoses and salts 
being taken up, but little or no water. In many cases of impaired 
gastric digestion, such as chronic gastritis, gastrectasis, and 
carcinoma of the stomach, it would be extremely useful if we 
could increase the amount of nutriment absorbed in the stomach. 
Very little, however, can be effected in this direction. But in 
most of these conditions intestinal digestion still has its full 
value, and it is wise, therefore, to aim at giving such food as will 
be most quickly discharged from the stomach into the duodenum. 
Only in pyloric obstruction is the increase of absorption in the 
stomach a real necessity. 

In the second place it is necessary to have a knowledge of the 
secretory, motor, absorptive and sensory powers of the stomach 
in the particular diseased condition which is under treatment. 
Opportunities for actual inspection of diseased stomachs are 
rare, but from a chemical examination of the contents, from 

estimation of the size of the stomach (preferably by C0 2 dis- 

n 



490 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tension), and from a study of all sources it is possible in most 
cases to gain a fairly clear idea of the state of the stomach-wall 
in all its elements. For practical purposes the secretion of hydro- 
chloric acid may be taken as an index of the total secretory power. 
Of this secretion there may be an excess or a deficiency, and both 
these alterations can be met with appropriate food. As regards 
the treatment of an insufficiency of motor power, the mode of 
preparation is nearly as important as the choice of food. In such 
conditions the consistence of the food must be considered with 
the idea of ensuring a quick emptying of the stomach. The 
sensory power of the stomach requires no estimation. If it is 
normal, it is not considered. If it is abnormal, it is obtrusive 
and will not be concealed. Thus in some cases of gastric disorder 
not necessarily severe in themselves, a secondary hyperassthesia 
of the gastric mucosa is engendered. In prescribing a diet we 
are then hampered by the fact that even easily digested foods 
produce pain and sometimes vomiting upon their entrance into the 
stomach. The normal unconsciousness of digestion is lost and 
it is hard to restore. In neurasthenia the task may be hopeless, 
unless the general condition can be improved. This hyper- 
sesthetic state or nervous dyspepsia may develop without any 
previous illness. The patient, commonly a female, may have 
reduced herself to a small liquid diet barely sufficient to sustain 
life although the functions of the stomach are adequately per- 
formed. It may be necessary in some cases to resort to enforced 
administration of food (cp. Diseases of the Nervous System). 

The causation also must be appreciated if dietetic treatment is 
to be complete. The common disorders of the stomach are 
mostly self-inflicted, and it is quite as important to correct all 
vices of eating, diet and life as to cure their results. Excess of 
food and drink, improper food, imperfect mastication through 
defective teeth or hurry, and a general tendency to quick meals 
and immediate movement thereafter, play a large part in gastric 
disturbance. A routine examination of the teeth should always 
be made. I doubt if the importance of good teeth and a clean 
mouth is sufficiently recognized. With reference to excess of 
food and improper food, a preliminary stage of starvation is the 
first necessity in the treatment of many cases of gastric disorder. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 491 

To miss an occasional meal or to pass one day in seven on a meagre 
diet is good for many people of leisure. Above all it is necessary 
to estimate correctly the actual amount of food that is being 
consumed daily by patients after middle life. The nutritional 
requirements lessen progressively with increasing years, but the 
appetite is not necessarily adjusted to this decline, or, if it is so 
adjusted, custom and example prevail and in spite of diminishing 
appetite the diet of robust middle life is maintained. Sometimes 
it will be found that the gastric symptoms of an elderly patient 
depend entirely on this persistence in the habits of his youth. 
Sometimes, on the other hand, an old and reluctant patient, who 
has naturally made the necessary change in his diet proportionate 
to his age, is brought before a physician by over-zealous relatives 
on the ground that he is eating nothing. For an old man who 
has done his life's work a supply of 15 calories per pound of body- 
weight is an ample allowance. 

Beyond this point empiricism begins. All articles of food have 
been divided by Leube into groups of digestibility by the ascer- 
tained times within which they leave the stomach in health. This 
test of digestibility is not a complete guide in the choice of food, 
as it is concerned chiefly with the motor power of the stomach, 
and it does not take fully into account the state of the secretory 
function. Such a grouping, however, may be utilized in framing 
a diet, but experience shows that it is not entirely applicable to 
states of disease. Moreover modifications and allowances must 
be made for the likes and dislikes of patients. These idiosyn- 
crasies are real but they cannot be foretold, and it is never wise 
to give a rigid diet to a patient without some discussion of details. 
All diet-lists are merely suggestive, and as regards both kind of 
food and amount of food they must be adapted to the patient. 

Complete rest lying down after meals is, I think, beneficial 
in all forms of gastric disorder. It is absolutely necessary in all 
conditions of diminished motor and secretory power, especially 
in gastrectasis and gastroptosis. I think it is of equal service 
in hyperacidity, although there is experimental evidence to show 
that in health the acidity of the stomach-contents is greater at 
rest than during movement. Sleep, however, should not be 
permitted. 



492 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Examination of the contents of the stomach must be made 
when possible. A few simple tests are at the command of all. 
Vomit may sometimes be used for the purpose, but a test-meal 
is generally necessary. In ordinary practice Ewald's test- 
breakfast is most suitable, as it involves little discomfort. It 
consists of 1^ oz. of white bread with 10 oz. of water or weak tea 
without milk or sugar. In this every class of food is represented, 
viz : protein, starch, sugar, fat, non-nitrogenous extractives 
and salts. It should be given in the early morning on an empty 
stomach, and the residuum should be removed exactly one hour 
later. The contents of the stomach should then be from 20 to 
40 c.c. of clear yellowish fluid when filtered. This test-meal is 
especially useful when the question of the presence or absence 
of free hydrochloric acid arises. 

For the settlement of questions of delayed digestion and of 
hyperacidity Riegel's test-meal is more trustworthy. It consists 
of 12 oz. of soup, 5 oz. of beef, 1 oz. of mashed potato and a roll, 
with 8 oz. of water. It should be taken at midday fasting, and 
after it the patient should remain at rest. Five hours later the 
contents of the stomach should be acid, and peptones are present 
with some undigested muscle and starch. Seven hours after 
this meal the stomach should be empty or contain a little neutral 
liquid. 

The fluid removed after the test-breakfast should be acid. 
It should show free hydrochloric acid but no lactic acid, and the 
total acidity should be between 40 and 60 on Ewald's scale (cp. 
later). It should contain peptone and sugar, pepsin and rennin, 
but no starch or erythrodextrin. 

The reaction may be tested with litmus paper, which is red- 
dened by acid, free or in combination. That the acid is free, is 
shown if Congo paper is rendered blue or violet (filter paper 
saturated with a watery solution of Congo red 1-1,000 and dried). 
But this alteration is produced both by free hydrochloric acid 
and by organic acids, and the further test of Topfer and Giinzburg 
is necessary to distinguish between them. 

Topfer's dimethyl-amido-azo-benzol test. A few drops of a 
0'05 per cent solution of this substance in alcohol gives a cherry- 
red colour to the filtrate or even to the unfiltered stomach-contents 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 493 

if free hydrochloric acid is present. A yellow colour is produced 
in the absence of free hydrochloric acid. It is true that a red 
colour is produced if as much as 0'2 per cent of lactic acid is 
present, but this amount of organic acid is rarely found and the 
test is generally efficient, and certainly easy. 

Gunzburg's test requires more care. A few drops of the fil- 
trate are evaporated slowly in a porcelain dish with a few drops 
of Gunzburg's solution (vanillin 1, phloroglucin 2, absolute alcohol 
30 parts). As it nears dryness, a red colour quickly appears 
along the edge. The evaporation must be slow, and care must be 
taken to avoid charring. This test will demonstrate 0'05 per 
cent of free hydrochloric acid and it is not given by organic 
acids. 

The presence of lactic acid, which is the organic acid of most 
common occurrence, may be shown by Uffelmann's test. If lactic 
acid above O'Ol per cent is present, the addition of a few drops 
of the filtrate will change the blue colour of Uffelmann's solution 
(carbolic acid 5 per cent 10 c.c., water 20 c.c., liq. ferri per- 
chloridi 2 drops) into a yellow or greenish-yellow. For perfect 
accuracy, when vomit and not the test-residuum is examined, 
it is necessary to extract the filtrate with ether, evaporate, and 
use a solution of the residue in water. 

The total acidity may be thus determined. Ten c.c. of the fil- 
trate with three drops of a saturated alcoholic solution of phenol - 
phthalein are diluted with distilled water to 100 c.c. This is 
divided into two equal parts, and each part is placed in a beaker 
standing on white paper. To one part decinormal solution of 
sodium hydrate (4 grms. of sodium hydrate dissolved in a litre 
of distilled water) is added drop by drop until a red colour 
appears. The unused part serves for comparison. The total 
acidity may now be expressed by a figure (commonly 40-60) 
which represents the number of c.c. of the alkaline solution which 
are requirecf to neutralize 100 c.c. of the filtrate. Thus if 5.5 c.c. 
are required to neutralize 10 c.c. of the filtrate, the total acidity 
is expressed by the figure 55 on Ewald's scale. 

For examination for organic acids (other than lactic acid), 
for peptones, starch, sugar, erythrodextrin, and for the methods 
by which the activity of pepsin and rennin, and the motor and 



494 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

absorptive powers of the stomach are estimated, reference should 
be made to a systematic work on the subject. 



GASTRIC ULCER 

The illness entailed by an ulcer of the stomach is usually 
a long one, and patients come before us at different stages in 
this long career. At all stages the dietetic treatment is of the 
greatest importance. There is good reason to believe that 
the number of cases of "chronic" ulcer and "recurring" 
ulcer might be reduced if a more rigid diet were maintained 
for a much greater length of time than is now customary. But 
it must be allowed that such a plan is often found to be diffi- 
cult or impossible, considering that the bulk of the cases of 
gastric ulcer are drawn from the class of working girls, who 
have little choice as regards food, and no opportunity for rest. 

For the purpose of dietetic treatment cases of gastric ulcer 
may be arbitrarily divided into several classes : (A) Very com- 
monly the patient comes under treatment within a few hours 
after an attack of haematemesis ; ( B] sometimes days or weeks 
have elapsed since the haematemesis ; (C) there is often a long 
antecedent stage during which (in the absence of haematemesis) 
an ulcer is suspected but cannot be recognized with certainty ; 
(D) often haematemesis has occurred on several occasions in 
the past, or with one previous haemorrhage there has been con- 
tinual pain after food, so that the story may run back for years. 
Though gastro-enterostomy should always be performed in 
such cases, dietetic treatment still remains a necessity. One 
cannot help thinking that in these cases the chronicity or 
recurrence of the disease is often due to defective treatment 
at their outset ; (E) the patient may come before us suffering 
entirely from one or more sequelae consequent on the healing 
of an ulcer, such as pyloric stenosis, perigastric adhesion and 
hour-glass contraction ; (F) in a small proportion of cases (about 
10 per cent of hospital admissions) perforation occurs without 
previous symptoms of ulcer, and after recovery from operation 
(with or without gastro-enterostomy) dietetic treatment is 
as important as in any of the other classes. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 495 

The dietetic treatment in all these classes is directed to the 
affording of rest to the stomach. Movements of the stomach- 
wall delay cicatrization of the ulcer, and in the few days fol- 
lowing hsematemesis movements may disturb the thrombus 
upon which safety depends. But rest to the secretory as well 
as to the motor function of the stomach is needed, and the food 
given (especially in the later stages of treatment) must be such 
as will reduce the secretory requirements to as low a level as 
possible, and this choice of food will at the same time tend to 
keep down the hyperacidity (q.v.) which is such an important 
accompaniment of gastric ulcer. These principles are matter 
of general agreement, but in points of detail it will be seen that 
there is room for difference of opinion. 

(.4) IMMEDIATELY AFTER H^MATEMESIS 

I do not doubt that for the first few days after haBmatemesis 
no food or fluid should be given by the mouth and that strict 
rectal feeding should be adopted. I feel sure that even the 
giving of small pieces of ice is pernicious. During these few 
days we are not concerned with the healing of the ulcer. Our 
object is to avoid mechanical disturbance of the thrombus during 
the few days necessary for the beginning of its organization. 

Opinions differ, however, as to the duration that should 
be prescribed for this strict rectal feeding. The principle of 
rest to the stomach is good, and there are those who carry it 
out to the extreme by employing it for two or three weeks. On 
the other hand it must be recognized that rectal feeding is always 
a state of semi-starvation, which is not calculated to promote 
the healing of an ulcer. Moreover, during prolonged rectal 
feeding it is probable that further disadvantages occur, which 
militate against cicatrization. The oral and gastric secretions 
are absent or small. The mouth is apt to become dry, and 
the tongue foul, so much so that parotitis occasionally sets in. 
It is probable that owing to the lack of acidity there is an abnor- 
mal growth of bacteria in the stomach, as there certainly is on 
the tongue. Presumably also, as in the case of all disused organs, 
there is some degree of bloodlessness of the stomach during 
deprivation of food. So that even if we possessed a method of 



496 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

maintaining the general nutrition, while keeping the stomach 
empty and at rest, I doubt if it would be wise to employ such a 
method for long. It is a matter of opinion and admits of no 
proof, but I believe not only that the gastric ulcer is formed 
suddenly by necrosis to a varying depth of the stomach-wall 
and the immediate digestion of the necrosed area, but also 
that there is from the first a strong natural tendency to rapid 
healing of the ulcer, if during this early stage the local and general 
conditions are favourable. 

Impressed by the necessity of procuring stomach rest at all 
costs, some physicians maintain strict rectal feeding for long 
periods, two or three weeks in some cases. But there is an op- 
posite extreme, and Lenhartz, influenced by the malnutrition 
and other evils which attend rectal feeding has discarded it. 
Even on the day of haemorrhage he allows 7-10 oz. of iced milk 
in spoonfuls, and from 2-4 beaten eggs in the 24 hours. For my 
part I think that strict rectal feeding for a certain time is necessary 
after haemorrhage and that the advantage gained, if it is not 
too prolonged, outweighs any possible malnutrition. As regards 
the duration of this stage of treatment, each case must be con- 
sidered on its merits, and no definite rule can be laid down. In 
all cases I think that at least three or four days should elapse 
after haemorrhage before any food or fluid can be safely given 
by the mouth. As a matter of fact after an interval of four clear 
days haemorrhage seldom recurs. During the actual occurrence 
of haematemesis, the rule of course must be absolute. In cases 
of recurring haemorrhage, this practice of allowing three or 
four days to elapse without food or fluid by the mouth after 
the last appearance of blood, necessitates in some cases a much 
longer period of rectal feeding than is desirable. But it is a 
choice of evils and for the moment stoppage of bleeding and 
organization of clot are more important objects than healing of 
the ulcer. 

The technique of rectal feeding is discussed elsewhere. I 
prefer 10 oz. or 15 oz. injections of normal saline solution con- 
taining 1 oz. of dextrose at 100 F. every 4 or 6 hours, as being 
more cleanly and quite as useful as nutrient enemata. Moreover 
though it is not proved, there is evidence to show that the use 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 497 

of nutrient enemata may excite the secretion of gastric juice, 
which tends to prevent that complete functional rest of the 
stomach which it is our object to attain. 

After the lapse of these few days of stomach-rest, small 
quantities of milk may be given by the mouth, while rectal 
feeding is continued. But even now mouth feeding must be 
tentative and on a small scale. Each case requires careful 
supervision, and the stages of treatment described can only be 
taken as affording a rough guide. Of a mixture of 21 oz. of 
milk and 9 oz. of lime-water or barley-water, 2 oz. may be given 
every 2 hours for 9 doses in the first 24 hours. On the second 
or third day if no pain occurs, while rectal feeding is continued, 
perhaps on a reduced scale, 30 oz. of this mixture may be given, 
in 5 oz. doses every 3 hours for 6 doses. It should be given at 
the body-temperature, and should be taken slowly, preferably 
with a spoon. From this time onwards the dose of food and 
the time of taking it should be methodically recorded. Thus 
within 6 or 7 days of the last sign of bleeding, the patient should 
be taking food to the value of about 420 calories. The increase 
of milk must be made with caution. As we have no direct means 
of ascertaining to what degree healing of the ulcer is taking 
place, it is necessary to take pain and vomiting as our guide. 
Recurrence of pain or vomiting requires a reduction of the dose, 
or a slower rate of increase. It is wise always to proceed on 
the supposition that the ulcer is large and deep. As a rule there 
is no necessity to peptonize the milk. 

After three or four days of this diet rectal feeding can gene- 
rally be discontinued, as the milk is increased. The calorie- 
value of the diet may be raised to 560 by giving 6 oz. of milk 
mixture (28 oz. of milk with 8 oz. of diluent) for 6 doses every 
three hours. And in a day or two the value of 800 calories 
may be reached by giving 8 oz. of milk mixture (40 oz. of milk 
with 8 of diluent) for 6 doses every 3 hours. This however is 
still a starvation diet. To supply the nutriment necessary for 
restoration of health by continual increase of milk alone, requires 
milk in such quantity that its bulk and weight have disadvantages. 
Some casein preparation may well be added. Any one of the 
numerous preparations such as sanatogen, protene, nutrose, etc., 

32 



498 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

may be used. But plasmon is especially useful, and three tea- 
spoonfuls will yield 70 or 80 calories. The day's supply of 
three teaspoonfuls should be converted into a thick paste, before 
it is added to the milk, by stirring it with 5 oz. of tepid water. 
Junket may be used instead of plasmon to supply the extra 
-protein. As a change one or two doses of milk may be made 
into jelly (1 oz. of isinglass to 1 pint of milk with 5 oz. of cream 
added and a flavouring of lemon). 

This first stage of milk and plasmon-milk diet should generally 
be completed about 14 days after mouth feeding was commenced, 
but its duration must vary with the severity and special character 
of each case, and it is sometimes necessary to prolong it. 

As regards the second stage of treatment there is some differ- 
ence of opinion as to the relative merits of carbo-hydrates and 
protein. The Continental practice consists mainly in the addition 
to the milk diet of eggs and bouillon. As will be shown later, 
Lenhartz gives eggs freely with the excellent purpose of neu- 
tralizing excess of acid in the gastric juice and apparently with 
excellent results. But there arises here the same question which 
is discussed in connexion with " hyperacidity," viz., the relative 
advantages of a carbo-hydrate and a protein diet, the former 
tending to minimize the secretion of acid, the latter tending to 
increase the secretion, but at the same time to neutralize it. I 
believe that the use of eggs and meat-extracts should be still 
further postponed, and that for this second stage, which should 
certainly be of 14 days duration at least, carbo-hydrates alone 
should be added to the diet. There is no proof that more protein 
will hasten cicatrization and in my experience a recurrence of 
pain or discomfort is often noted on the addition of eggs at 
this stage. 

A calorie value of at least 1,200 should be reached, and this 
can be attained with some variety of fare. At least two pints 
of milk should still be given diluted as before, but milk may also 
be used in combination with carbo-hydrate food. Two teaspoon- 
fuls of plasmon may be retained and there is no necessity to add 
further protein. Carbo-hydrate food to the weight of 2 oz. may 
be used. This can be given as arrowroot, bread and milk, rusks 
and milk, cornflour blancmange, Benger's food, cornflour pudding 



409 

or even thin white bread and butter without crust. The diet 
of this stage may be arranged on the following plan : 

6 a.m Milk and plasmon, 8 oz. 

8 a.m Milk-mixture, 6 oz. 

Arrowroot, 2J oz. 

Thin bread and butter, 1 oz. 
noon Milk and plasmon, 8 oz. 

Thin bread and butter, 1 oz. 
4 p.m Cornflour blancmange, 2J oz. 

Milk-mixture, 6 oz. 

Thin bread and butter, 1 oz. 
8 p.m Milk-mixture, 6 oz. 

Arrowroot, 2J oz. 
10 p.m Milk-mixture, 8 oz. 

The extra protein required may be given by junket instead 
of by plasmon. 

If at the end of four weeks from the beginning of mouth 
feeding this amount of food can be taken without any discom- 
fort, it is very unlikely that further trouble will occur in the 
next stage. Presumably cicatrization of the ulcer is proceeding 
satisfactorily, but the actual condition of the ulcer is unknown 
and all extensions of the diet must be made as cautiously as 
before. Two or three eggs may now be added, cooked or in 
custard or beaten up in milk. Bread or rusks and butter are 
permitted, and other varieties of starchy food such as sago, 
tapioca and potato-puree. Milk-soup flavoured with onion, 
celery or turnip can be given, and any clear soup, chicken- 
broth, mutton-broth or beef -tea, if their low nutritive value id 
remembered. 

A sample diet supplying 1,800 calories may be thus con- 
structed : 



7 a.m Two rusks. 

Milk, 8 oz. flavoured with coffee. 
9 a.m. . . . . Cocoa made with milk, 8 oz. 

1 egg lightly boiled or poached. 

Thin bread and butter, 1 oz. 
1 p.m Milk-soup, 8 oz. 

Milk pudding or custard with one egg, 2J oz. 

Thin bread and butter, 1 oz. 

Milk, 8 oz. 
4 p.m Two rusks and milk, 8 oz. 



500 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

6 p.m Chicken-broth, 6 oz. 

Milk pudding or custard with 1 egg, 2 oz. (or 1 
egg lightly boiled or poached and junket made 
from 10 oz. of milk). 
Thin bread and butter, 1 oz. 
Milk, 8 oz. 
8 p.m Two rusks and milk, 8 oz. 

Such a diet consisting of milk, eggs, carbo-hydrate and fat 
should be maintained for at least 14 days, and in many cases 
this third stage may be further prolonged with advantage. I 
think that extra days spent on this diet mean an increased chance 
of sound and permanent healing. 

Fish and chicken should not be allowed until at least six 
weeks have elapsed since mouth feeding was commenced. The 
diet in this final stage should have a value of about 2,500 calories, 
and considerable variety becomes possible and there is much 
scope for cookery. The meals should be small, all hard particles 
should be avoided and cellulose should be kept at a low level. 
On resuming such a liberal diet it is especially important to 
inculcate the habit of thorough mastication and slow eating. 
If, as is usual at this point, the patient is up for part of the day, 
at least half an hour of complete rest lying down should be taken 
after every meal. When some fish, preferably a piece of boiled 
sole has been taken on two or three occasions at the midday 
meal without discomfort, the patient can be advanced to some 
such diet as is detailed below. Milk, carbo-hydrates and eggs 
must still form a large part of the diet. Fish (sole, plaice, whiting 
or haddock), sweetbread, chicken, pigeon and pheasant may 
be added with potato or cauliflower. This diet admits of con- 
siderable variation and need not be monotonous. It should 
not be materially altered for at least three months, and the 
longer the patient can be made to abstain from meat, tea and 
alcohol the better is the result. For the working classes such 
a diet can be obtained while the patient remains in hospital. 
On her departure from hospital, which is generally premature, 
the patient should be provided with some such diet-list, and 
though fish and chicken are often beyond her reach it is possible 
for her to resume work on a diet of milk, carbo-hydrates, butter 
and eggs. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 501 

In this late stage of treatment the food must be suited to 
the patient as carefully as before. Occasionally even now there 
is complaint of pain or discomfort after certain articles of food. 
This will necessitate some alteration in details of the diet, but 
it need not lead to the idea that the ulcer is still unhealed. For 
it is clear that after the healing of an ulcer, especially in neuras- 
thenic subjects, a veritable hyperaesthesia of the gastric mucosa 
may persist, so that certain articles produce pain immediately 
they enter the stomach. 

FINAL DIET FOR GASTRIC ULCER 

8 a.m Milk flavoured with coffee, 8 oz. (or cocoa made 

with milk). 

One or two eggs lightly-boiled, poached or scram- 
bled. 

Thin bread and butter, 2 oz. (or rusks and butter). 
10.30 a.m. . . . Milk, 8 oz. 
A rusk. 

1 p.m Sole boiled, fried or filleted or fishcake, 3 or 4 oz. 

(or quenelles of haddock or sweet-bread with 
white sauce). 

Cauliflower, 2 oz. (or potato-puree or both). 
Milk pudding made with egg, 2 or 3 oz. (or custard 

or savoury omelette). 
Thin bread and butter, 2 oz. 
Milk, 8 oz. 

4.30 p.m. . . . As at 10.30 a.m. 

7 p.m Clear soup, or milk-soup, chicken-broth, mutton- 
broth, 6 oz. 

Chicken panada or soufflee, 3 oz. (or veal quenelles). 
Potato-puree, 2 oz. 
Milk pudding, 2 or 3 oz. (or custard or junket and 

cream). 

Thin bread and butter, 2 oz. 
Milk, 8 oz. 
10 p.m As at 4.30 p.m. (or Benger's food, 6 oz.). 

The plan of graduated feeding which has been described is 
of considerable antiquity. In 1901 a protest against its con- 
tinuance was made by Lenhartz. In his view healing of a gastric 
ulcer is not promoted by stomach-rest and proceeds but slowly 
under a strict milk diet. He considers that the high acidity 
of the gastric juice which is so commonly associated with gastric 
ulcer, is not lessened by milk feeding, and that such feeding 
tends to maintain the anaemia and may even produce such 
serious inanition as to delay or prevent the cicatrizing pnx 



502 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



Further he believes that nutrient enemata excite an intestinal 
peristalsis, which spreads to the stomach and may induce re- 
newed bleeding. Finally he is alive to the defect of continual 
increase of milk (up to 1,600 or 1,800 calories) which is generally 
admitted, viz., that the weight and bulk of 3 or 4 or more pints 
of milk constitute serious drawbacks to their use. 

He recommends therefore immediate feeding and a rapid 
increase of food, so that the patient receives the value of 3,000 
calories 14 days after haemorrhage or after the commencement 
of treatment. On the first day, even on the day of haemorrhage, 
the patient receives 8-10 oz. of iced milk given in spoonfuls 
and two beaten eggs. The eggs are beaten up entire (with a 
little sugar) and before use they are surrounded with ice and 
are thus given cold. The following table shows this rapid method 
of treatment : 

DAYS AFTER LAST H^MATEMESIS. 





j^ 




4 


5 


6 


7 


8 9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


Eggs 1 . 


2 


3 


^ 


5 


6 


7 


8 


8 


8 


8 


8 


8 


8 


8 


Sugarwith 






























eggs.gnns. 








20 


20 


30 


30 


40 


40 50 50 


50 


50 


50 


50 


Milk, c.c. 


200 


300400 


500 


600 


700 


800 


900 1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


1,000 


Raw chop- 






























ped meat, 






























grms. . 

















35 


70 


70 70 


70 


70 


70 


70 


70 


Milk rice . 




















100 


100 


200 


200 


300 


300 


300 


300 


















20 = 














Zwieback 























one 


two 


2 


3 


3 


4 


5 


















piece 


pieces 












Raw ham 





























50 


50 


50 


50 


50 


Butter . 


























20 


40 


40 


40 


40 


Calories . 


280 


420 


637 


777 


956 


1,135 


1,588 


1,721 


2,138 


2,478 


2,941 


2,941 


3,00713,073 



1 From the first to the seventh day inclusively the eggs are beaten ; from 
the seventh to the fourteenth day inclusively half are beaten and half are cooked. 

(B) DAYS OR WEEKS AFTER H^SIATEMESIS 

In these cases again the question of rectal feeding comes 
up, and the advantages and disadvantages of such a course need 
not be repeated. 

Here there is presumably no question of disturbance of an 
organizing thrombus in an open vessel. But we have no means 
of knowing the exact state of the ulcer. Often after haemate- 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 503 

mesis the patient has struggled on with something like her 
ordinary diet, and the early tendency of the clean-edged ulcer 
to heal quickly has been impaired or lost. I think it is wise 
therefore to start with two or three days of saline injections 
per rectum and an empty stomach. Milk feeding may then 
be proceeded with on the plan already described. But if, in 
the time that has elapsed since the haematemesis occurred, the 
patient has been efficiently treated, it may be possible to shorten 
the early tentative period of milk feeding and to reach the second 
stage of milk-carbo-hydrate diet in a few days. 

(C) SUSPECTED ULCER 

In cases which present the history and signs of ulcer without 
haematemesis, we can be guided in the question of rectal feeding 
by the urgency of the vomiting. A short period of an empty 
stomach may be necessary, but the patient can often be placed 
at once on a milk diet to the value of 560 calories, and can 
proceed with the treatment from that point. 

(D) CHRONIC ULCER 

In some cases months or years have been spent in illness. 
With intervals of improvement, the patient has seldom been 
able to take solid food without pain, vomiting has become a 
habit and its recurrence is welcomed, malnutrition and secondary 
anaemia are obvious, and there has commonly been haeinatemesis 
on one or more occasions. The treatment of such patients in 
the early and curable stage of the ulcer is generally found on 
inquiry to have been half-hearted and imperfect. 

If for any reason surgery cannot be employed, the best chance 
of cure is afforded by a milk-carbo-hydrate diet, which must be 
liberal from the first in view of the malnutrition. In many 
cases improvement will follow a prolonged course of such a diet, 
but there is no ground for being sanguine as to an ultimate 
cure. 

I believe that gastro-enterostomy should be urged on all 
such patients and that dietetic treatment should follow, and 
that only by the conjunction of surgical and medical treatment 
is there any real prospect of recovery. The healing of even a 



504 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

chronic ulcer may be comparatively rapid under these conditions, 
as is shown by the following case. " A man aged 42 in St. 
Thomas' Hospital had suffered from the symptoms of gastric 
ulcer for six years with hardly any intermission. Haematemesis 
had occurred on several occasions, the last occasion being the 
day before operation. Posterior gastro-enterostomy was per- 
formed and an ulcer was found on the anterior wall of the stomach 
which was adherent to the liver. No pain or vomiting occurred 
thereafter, and the patient was soon able to take a full diet in 
perfect comfort. He died two months after the operation from 
rapid tuberculosis of the lungs, and at the autopsy the ulcer 
seen at the time of operation was found to be completely healed." 
After the performance of gastro-enterostomy the diet must 
be arranged with the knowledge that a thick-walled ulcer is 
present. But in these cases there is commonly such malnutrition 
that feeding should be from the first as liberal as is compatible 
with safety. On the first day after operation milk diluted (2 to 1) 
with lime-water or barley-water may be given in 1 oz. doses 
every hour. On the second day milk-mixture (4 to 1) may be 
given in 5 oz. doses every 2 hours, and on the third day some 
carbo-hydrate may be added in the form of Benger's food or 
arrowroot. A full milk-carbo-hydrate diet may be reached in a 
week, and in many cases fish and chicken can be taken at the 
end of the second week. But for many months thereafter the 
patient should adhere to the final diet-list already detailed. 
The rapid gain of weight that commonly follows the opera- 
tion is sufficient proof of its value. The relief that is afforded 
to the stomach by the shortening of the period of gastric digestion 
far outweighs any disadvantage which may accrue from deficient 
absorption. As a matter of fact metabolism is practically 
unaffected. In Paterson's observations " in none did the un- 
absorbed nitrogen amount to more than 2 per cent above the 
amount usually passed in the faeces by a healthy individual, 
while the amount of fat passed unabsorbed did not on any occasion 
exceed 7' 7 per cent of the fat taken in the food, that is, just 
over 2 per cent above the amount usually passed in the faeces 
by a healthy man." 

In all cases where one genuine and sufficient course of dietetic 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 505 

treatment has failed to effect a complete cure, I think the opera- 
tion should be strongly recommended to the patient. 

(E) SEQUELS OP GASTRIC ULCER 

Pyloric stenosis is easily recognized and must be dealt with 
by a surgeon. The subsequent line of dietetic treatment will 
depend on the presence or absence of an unhealed ulcer. In 
many cases of cicatricial contraction of the pylorus a chronic 
ulcer is situated in the neighbourhood. 

Perigastric adhesions and hour-glass contraction of the 
stomach are matters of greater difficulty. On a slender milk- 
carbo-hydrate diet patients suffering from these conditions may 
continue to live without much discomfort, but there can be 
no return to a sufficient full diet without surgical relief. A 
suspicion of the existence of these sequelae requires exploration 
and their treatment by gastrolysis, gastro-enterostomy or other- 
wise. The diagnosis of adhesions is extremely difficult and 
there are no pathognomonic signs, by which their presence can 
be recognized. The pain that results from them does not differ 
materially from the pain which is sometimes experienced by 
neurasthenic women even after the cure of an ulcer. Such cases 
require careful observation, and, inasmuch as in the hyperaes- 
thetic state of neurasthenia operation can do no good and often 
does harm, exploration should not be hastily recommended. 



DUODENAL ULCER 

This general plan of the treatment of a gastric ulcer can be 
adopted when the ulcer is on the duodenal side of the pylorus. 
The same rules hold good, but there is one important difference. 
The duodenum is disturbed only at intervals by the passage 
of food-stuffs from the stomach, and it has none of the churning 
movements that tend to prevent the healing of an ulcer in the 
stomach. Consequently the rate of progress in the steady 
increase of food may be rather more rapid. In the final diets 
special care must be taken to keep down any tendency to hyper- 
acidity. 



506 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

HYPERACIDITY 

(Syn. Hyperchlorhydria, Acid dyspepsia) 

This condition must be considered as a secretory neurosis, 
either inborn or provoked by errors of diet and life. In cases 
of long duration it is possible that secondary glandular proli- 
feration may occur, and it is certain that a secondary slight 
gastric dilatation sometimes ensues. It is the commonest form 
of indigestion. The characteristic symptom is a burning or 
gnawing pain in the epigastrium, which begins one or two hours 
after a meal, or sometimes even later, so that it is described 
by the patient as " preceding " a meal. It seldom occurs at 
night. The patient has generally discovered that the pain is 
relieved by food, by bicarbonate of soda, or by vomiting. Natural 
vomiting is uncommon, but some patients have been taught by 
experience to provoke it with the finger. Flatulence (the gas 
being partly derived from the carbonates of saliva and bile), 
substernal heartburn, and acid eructations are common. Occa- 
sionally severe attacks of gastric (probably pyloric) spasm occur, 
generally associated with paroxysmal pyrosis. 

These symptoms are due to a rapid and excessive secretion 
of gastric juice. Free hydrochloric acid is found earlier after 
a test-breakfast (even within ten minutes) than under healthy 
conditions ; the total acidity at the height of digestion, expressed 
in terms of hydrochloric acid, commonly rises to 0'3 per cent, 
occasionally even to 0'6 per cent, or it lies between 70 and 100 
on Ewald's scale. It is probable, also, that in some severe cases 
secretion continues even after digestion is completed (cp. hyper- 
secretion). Before dietetic treatment is undertaken, it must 
be made clear that the symptoms are due to hydrochloric acid 
and not to organic acids. Though organic acids set free by 
bacterial or toruloid action can notably increase the total acidity 
of the contents of the stomach, this occurs on a large scale only 
in cases of pyloric obstruction and gastric dilatation, a condition 
which as a rule is sufficiently obvious. A total acidity above 
normal (above 60 on Ewald's scale) after a test-dinner establishes 
the diagnosis. 

If this perversion of secretion is considered in relation to 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 507 

digestion, it will be clear that the normal allowance of time 
during which starch digestion can continue in the stomach is 
curtailed by this premature rise of acidity. It ceases when 
hydrochloric acid amounts to 0'12 per cent. Protein-digestion 
however is usually well performed, but Boas has recorded cases, in 
which pepsin was absent and protein-digestion delayed. Theoret- 
ically it might be supposed that in consequence of the excessive 
acidity of the chyme as it enters the duodenum the pancreatic 
digestion of fat would be delayed, but in practice I do not think 
that there is evidence of this, though a dislike for fat is occasionally 
noted. As a rule the stomach is emptied at any rate within 
normal limits of time, but in severe cases there is delay, which 
is probably due to pyloric spasm, and occasionally some degree 
of dilatation results. Perhaps the delay of digestion, which 
occurs when much starch is taken, may also tend to produce 
this result. After long continuance of hyperacidity some de- 
gree of chronic gastritis may supervene, manifested by a greater 
tendency to vomit and the appearance of mucus in the vomit. 
These points, which must be realized in prescribing a suit- 
able diet, present the malady only in its simplest form. Many 
cases however are complex, and the associated conditions and 
antecedents must be reckoned up and weighed. Associated 
with hyperacidity there is often a real gastric hyperaesthesia, 
either a primary sensory neurosis or a secondary result of con- 
tinued hyperacidity, and the mere contact of food with the 
gastric mucosa will then excite pain or discomfort. A loose 
right kidney and gastroptosis in women are not uncommon 
associations and add greatly to the difficulty of treatment. 
Although hyperacidity is commonly associated with gastric 
ulcer, hyperacidity does not in that association present the char- 
acteristic symptoms described above, and gastric ulcer is rarely 
present and need seldom be suspected, when those typical symp- 
toms are clearly marked. In pure hyperacidity it may be noted 
that easily digested foods are as likely to produce pain as in- 
digestible articles, and that a large meal may be better borne 
than a small one. From duodenal ulcer there is greater difficulty 
of distinction, and the symptoms of such an ulcer and those 
of hyperacidity may have a close resemblance. The possibility 



508 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of the co-existence of the two conditions must always be borne 
in mind, and the occurrence of haematemesis or melsena in a 
patient who has long suffered from hyperacidity should cause 
no surprise. The occurrence of pain in the back and rigidity 
of the right rectus should be noted in this connexion. 

Further if treatment is to be precise, some idea must be 
gained as to the cause of the hyperacidity. It is clear that it 
arises in some cases from gross causes, such as imperfect masti- 
cation, food bolting, hurried meals immediately followed by 
active movement, excess of protein in the diet, abuse of alcohol, 
of gastric stimulants and I believe of tobacco. Habitual over- 
feeding certainly plays a part in the causation in some cases. 
Some go so far as to regard hyperacidity as being mainly due to 
long continued excess of protein food. Hemmeter for example 
suggests that it is an " adaptive process," meaning that the 
power of the glandular structures to secrete acid has been in- 
creased in response to the excessive stimulus of excess of meat 
in the diet. Certainly it is not a common condition in hospital 
classes, of whose diet bread and butter are the chief constituents. 
Such cases as seem to arise from one or more of these avoidable 
causes afford great satisfaction in treatment. But a history 
of such a faulty life is by no means so commonly obtained as 
in cases of dilatation and chronic gastritis. Hyperacidity 
often occurs without any obvious avoidable cause. 

The general health is usually good. But in many cases an 
obvious nervous defect underlies the condition. Though it 
is more common in men than in women, its subjects are usually 
high-strung and excitable, apt to hurry when no haste is needed. 
They may belong to the leisured class and voluntarily adopt 
a strenuous life, but commonly they are tied to an occupation 
which entails quick meals, train-catching, excitement and worry. 
This is often found to be a serious obstacle to successful treat- 
ment. It is aggravated by shock, emotion or work under pres- 
sure, and in some patients it occurs in attacks only under such 
influences, so that in quiet times any kind of food can be taken 
with impunity. As in all gastric and intestinal neuroses, idiosyn- 
crasies as regards certain articles of diet may come to light 
when treatment is begun, and these will add to the difficulty. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 509 

Constipation also is generally a source of trouble. If the con- 
dition is of long duration and does not yield to treatment, it 
usually leads to pessimism and depression. Even after a com- 
plete cure I believe the patient should be warned that his days 
for large promiscuous meals are over, and he should be furnished 
with a rigid diet list and an outline of a healthy life. 

The dietetic treatment of hyperacidity is difficult, but it 
is always promising, because, unlike the sufferer from some 
other abdominal neuroses, the patient has a genuine desire to 
be quit of his trouble. 

In severe cases of long standing, when the patient is seldom 
free from pain and has begun to lose weight, it is wise to give 
him two weeks of complete rest in bed. If on C0 2 distension of 
the stomach, any real dilatation is found to be present, lavage 
may be performed on the first three days of this time, but it 
should not be performed unnecessarily. During the first week 
there should be semi-starvation, milk to the value of 560 and 
later of 800 calories being given as in the case of gastric ulcer 
(q.v.) with a large dose of Carlsbad salt in hot water every morning 
on an empty stomach. During the second week of complete 
rest the diet may be gradually extended. If as is usual the 
gastric mucosa has now lost its extreme sensitiveness, one or 
two eggs, lightly-boiled, poached or even buttered, may be 
tried, and later the addition of 4 oz. of milk pudding or rusks in 
milk may be made, so that at the end of the second week the 
patient is receiving sufficient food to supply nearly 1,500 calories. 
He will probably be found to have lost some more weight. During 
the third week he may be allowed out of bed, to drive and to 
take short walks and to prepare for a resumption of ordinary 
life. During this third week the degree of secretion-response 
to the stimulus of food may be further tested by the addition 
of fish (sole, plaice, whiting) or chicken to the diet. Milk should 
still form a large part of the diet, viz., 40 oz. with 8 oz. of diluent, 
and the meals may be arranged on the following plan : 

8.30 a.m. . . . Milk diluted, 8 oz. 

One or two eggs cooked in any way. 

Toast or rusks, 1 oz. 

Butter, $ oz. 
11 a.m. . . Milk as before. 



510 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

1 p.m Milk as before. 

Fish (sole, plaice or whiting) or chicken, 4 oz. 

Custard or jelly or blancmange with cream, or 
savoury omelette, 4 oz. 

Toast or rusk and butter as before. 
4.30 p.m. . . . Milk as before. 
7 p.m Milk as before. 

One or two eggs cooked in any way. 

Toast or rusk and butter as before. 
10 p.m Milk as before. 

Rusk. 



The duration of this stage and the subsequent course must 
depend on the result obtained. As a rule he is now able to 
resume an ordinary life and he will soon be able to embark on 
the correct diet which, with few alterations, should serve him 
for the rest of his life. 

In one group of cases, as already mentioned, the immediate 
cause of the hyperacidity becomes plain, when the patient's 
manner of life and feeding is grasped. There may be much to 
correct. In some such cases it is sufficient to set matters right 
as regards the teeth, to explain the importance of prolonged 
mastication, slow eating and early hours, to enjoin at least thirty 
minutes of complete rest lying down after each meal, to cut 
off or diminish alcohol and tobacco, and to increase the amount 
of exercise in the open air. Furnished with a simple diet he 
can then see the end of his trouble. But though the cause 
may be plain, its correction may be an impossible counsel of per- 
fection in the case of a man, whose lif e and habits are necessarily 
dominated by his work. In these cases over and above the estab- 
lishment of a correct diet, we must fall back on the use of antacid 
medicinal remedies which palliate but do not cure. However in 
all cases an attempt must be made on general principles to remove 
any causative factor and to minimize the nervous predisposition. 

When we consider the details of a diet which shall be suitable 
(1) for the partly cured patient who has been through the short 
rest cure described ; (2) for the patient who is half cured as 
soon as the exciting cause is discovered and, (3) for the patient 
whose chance of improvement is small so long as his livelihood 
depends on the continuance of an unhealthy and hurried existence 
we find general agreement on many points. All condiments 



\ 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 511 

and spices, mustard, pepper, vinegar, horseradish, ginger, curry, 
etc., must be forbidden, as well as all vegetables containing 
much cellulose and salads. No article of food should contain 
hard material such as pips and seeds. Coffee should be excluded, 
cocoa or tea freshly made with half milk being allowed. At 
first no alcohol in any form should be taken, but as time goes 
on without the recurrence of symptoms its use may be safely 
resumed with the limitations mentioned later. All starch 
(if it is used) should be dextrinized by dry heat as in thin toast 
and rusks, or thoroughly gelatinized by moist heat as in milk 
puddings. Pastry must be avoided. Fresh uncooked butter 
and cream may be taken freely and perhaps tend somewhat 
to lessen the secretion of gastric juice. Sugar may be freely 
used, preferably dextrose or honey. Jellies are useful, gelatine 
fixing a good deal of hydrochloric acid in its digestion : they 
may be flavoured with lemon, orange or fruit- juice if necessary, 
but fruit itself should be avoided. Milk, eggs, and grated cheese 
are always correct articles of diet. Junket flavoured with 
cocoa can be taken. Soup may well be avoided, in view of 
its stimulant effect and its small nutritive value. Fluid may 
be given freely at meals, if there is no dilatation, and either 
milk and soda-water or any mineral water such as Perrier and 
Apollinaris should form the staple drink. The temperature 
of food should be considered and extremes avoided by preserving 
a minimum of 55 F. and a maximum of 130 F. ; a temperature of 
100 F. may serve to minimize the stimulus to the secretion of acid. 
On certain other points however there are divergent views. 
In the first place inasmuch as the acid of the gastric juice is 
solely derived from the chlorides of the blood, it has been sug- 
gested that in hyperacidity this supply should be diminished 
by forbidding the use of common salt both as a condiment and 
in the cooking of food, so that the patient becomes dependent 
for his chloride supply on the salts naturally present in his food. 
It has been shown experimentally by Cahn and by Hemmeter 
that the acidity of the gastric juice is materially reduced in dogs, 
if they are fed on meat, from which the salts have been largely 
extracted by boiling with distilled water. Moreover Cahn by 
further means so reduced the chloride-content of the blood 



512 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

that the stomach secreted a neutral inactive fluid. This fluid 
however if acidified at once became active and digested fibrin, 
so that we may conclude that the secretion of pepsin is inde- 
pendent of that of the acid. Without actual observation of 
the point no patient can state how much salt he is in the habit 
of taking. I have seen a few patients suffering from hyper- 
acidity who confessed that they took exceptional quantities 
of salt, but I think that the majority of patients are moderate 
in its use. It may be argued from the universality of the practice 
that salt eating is in some way beneficial or even necessary. 
But some people take no salt apart from that naturally con- 
tained in their food or introduced by the cook, and suffer no 
harm. On the whole I believe that it is wise to eliminate salt 
from the diet in this condition, though I have seen no immediate 
beneficial results in patients who have so excluded it. 

In the second place there are different views on a more im- 
portant point, viz. the relative advantages of an amylaceous 
and a protein diet. The dilemma may be stated thus. (1) It 
is certain that in hyperacidity digestion of starch in the stomach 
is quickly brought to an end by the early rise of acidity and 
the appearance of free acid. In fact in some cases the discomfort 
is largely due to the presence of large quantities of starch in 
the stomach which cannot be dealt with. On the other hand 
protein food is not only quickly digested, but it fixes and com- 
bines with acid in the process, and protein food will often relieve 
the discomfort, which is the chief feature of the malady. So 
that it would appear obvious at first sight that the diet should 
be mainly protein, carbo-hydrate food being administered only 
as sugar or, if as starch, only in very small quantity. (2) On 
the other hand it is equally certain that protein is a far greater 
stimulant to the acid secretion than carbo-hydrate food. Gar- 
ni vora have more acid in the gastric juice than herbivora. 
Hemmeter has shown that the acidity of the secretion in car- 
nivora can be diminished by feeding on a carbo-hydrate diet 
for a long time. It has been said also that hyperacidity is rare 
among Eastern races who live mainly on carbo-hydrates. So 
that it may be argued that by insisting on a protein diet, we 
relieve the symptoms, but perpetuate the malady. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 513 

It is clear that the amylaceous diet has a curative aim, while 5 
the protein diet is directed to relief of a symptom. There are 
advocates for both diets in their entirety. It is possible to take 
a middle course. I believe that the protein diet, dealing as 
it does with symptoms alone, is the most suitable for, and should 
be confined to the third class of patient mentioned above, generally 
a clerk, who is so placed in his work that no attempt at a com- 
plete cure can be made. But even to him some starch should 
be allowed and I do not think he suffers from the addition of 
| oz. of thin toast or rusk at his three chief meals, or from 2 
oz. of milk pudding at his evening meal. To him also may 
be recommended the palliative taking of milk, meat lozenge, 
bicarbonate of soda or the bismuth lozenge when the pain comes 
on at his work. Chewing gum with resulting flow of saliva and 
consequent neutralization of some acid in the stomach is per- 
missible with the same object. But as a curative line of treat- 
ment I believe that in the long run a simple mixed diet with 
preponderance of milk gives the best result, if it is remembered 
that no meal should be a large one, that several small meals 
are better than two large ones, and that good mastication, 
slow eating, rest, exercise and moderation in the use of alcohol 
and tobacco are essential parts of the treatment. 

The following 'is an outline of such a diet : 

DIET FOR HYPERACIDITY 

Half an hour before breakfast hot water 8 oz., with a small dose of 
Carlsbad salt. 

8.30 a.m. . . . Cocoa made with milk, 10 oz. (or freshly made 
tea with half milk). 

Graham or wholemeal bread toasted, 2 oz. 

Butter, f oz. 

Honey, oz. 

One or two eggs cooked in any way. 

11 a.m Milk diluted (6 to 1) with soda-water, 6 oz. 

1 p.m Meat (preferably veal, mutton or ham). 2 oz. 

(or fish, chicken, game, sweetbread or savoury 
omelette). 

Milk pudding, 2 oz. (or custard). 

Toast, 1 oz. 

Butter, J oz. 

Cheese, J oz. 

Milk diluted, 6 oz. (or water plain or aerated). 

33 



514 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

5 p.m Milk diluted, 6 oz. 

Toast, 1 oz. (or rusk). 

7.30 p.m. . . . Milk-soup flavoured with celery, turnip or onion, 
6 oz. 

Fish or meat as at lunch. 

Potato-puree, 1 oz. (or lentils). 

Milk pudding, 2 oz. (or blancmange, jelly, cus- 
tard). 

Toast, butter, cheese as at lunch (or cheese-straws). 

Milk diluted, 6 oz. (or water plain or aerated). 
Bed time . . . Milk diluted as at 11 a.m. 

Finally when it appears that gastric secretion has returned 
to normal limits the diet may be tentatively altered and ex- 
tended. Fish or fat bacon may be added to the breakfast. 
The 11 o'clock milk may be omitted. A variety of vegetables 
may be taken such as vegetable marrow, Brussels sprouts, lettuce, 
cauliflower, spinach. Savouries may be added and more elaborate 
puddings. But simplicity, though it is monotonous, should 
still be the object. Only when a cure is complete should any 
alcohol be allowed. Whisky 1| oz. diluted with at least 7 oz. 
of soda-water may be taken at lunch and dinner, or claret, 
hock or Moselle diluted with one third part of soda-water, or 
light lager beer. Under no circumstances should any alcohol 
be used in greater strength than in these drinks, and no alcohol 
is permissible apart from meals. 

As an example of a diet based on the use of protein for hyper- 
acidity, that of Wegele may be quoted : 

Morning . . . Tea with milk, 100 grms. 

Two soft-boiled eggs. 
JForenoon . . . Raw ham, 100 grms. 

Cream, 50 grms. 

Aleuronat meal broth, 200 grms. 

Or oatmeal broth, 250 grammes. 
Noon .... Beef -steak, 150 grms. 

Mashed potato, 200 grms. 

White wine with Saratoga, Vichy or Biliner water, 

100 grms. 
Afternoon . . . Tea, 100 grms. 

Cream, 150 grms. 
Evening . . . Cold meat, 50 grms. 

Two scrambled eggs. 

Wine, 100 grms. 
10 p.m. . . . Milk, 250 grms. 

At meal times aleuronat toast, 100 grms. 
This diet yields 2,400 calories. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 515 

HYPERSECRETION 

In considering the subject of hyperacidity it was stated 
that at the height of digestion the degree of acidity rises to 70 
or 100 on Ewald's scale, that the resulting pain and discomfort 
abate as the stomach empties itself, and that when the stomach 
is empty the patient is free from all trouble. Hence it is that 
his symptoms so rarely occur at night. . 

(a) CONTINUOUS HYPERSECRETION. 

In some severe cases, however, the secretion of gastric juice 
continues after digestion is complete and after the stomach 
is empty. It occurs apparently in the absence of any stimulus, 
except such as is afforded by swallowed saliva and mucus. 

This form of secretory neurosis, " continuous hypersecretion," 
is uncommon. It occurs I believe only as a late stage in cases 
of long-continued hyperacidity which have been imperfectly 
treated. There is usually a history of many years of gastric 
illness of the hyperacid type. It requires no separate des- 
cription, but a few points may be mentioned. In the first place 
cross-examination of the patient will probably reveal the fact 
that the pain does not cease when the stomach is empty, but that 
it runs on to the next meal, so that it is sometimes described 
by the patient as being at its worst " just before a meal." As 
in the case of simple hyperacidity, it will have been noticed 
by the patient that it is relieved to some extent by food or bi- 
carbonate of soda. In the second place the pain is very apt 
to occur at night, commonly between 12 and 2 o'clock. Thirdly, 
vomiting and consequent emaciation are more marked than 
in simple hyperacidity, so much so that a suspicion of carcinoma 
may be aroused in spite of the long history. Finally some degree 
of dilatation of the stomach is usually present. 

The actual proof, however, of the existence of this con- 
tinuous hypersecretion can only be reached by washing out the 
stomach clean over night, and aspirating the stomach in the 
morning while still fasting. In well marked cases there are 
obtained from the stomach 4-8 oz. of clear yellowish-green 



516 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

fluid with a specific gravity of about 1,005 and a total acidity 
between 60 and 80. 

As regards the dietetic treatment nothing need be added 
to the outline given under hyperacidity, and the same question 
discussed under that heading as regards the relative advan- 
tages of an amylaceous and a protein diet comes up again here. 
But hypersecretion is a more severe condition than hyperacidity 
and much less tractable. It is more than ever important to 
start a course of treatment with a period of semi-starvation 
and the minimizing of gastric stimulation. And as there is here 
no healing process required, as in the case of gastric ulcer, mal- 
nutrition may be disregarded and some loss of weight need 
cause no anxiety. The patient will generally submit to any 
restrictions in his desire to recover. 

The slight rest cure recommended as the first step in the 
treatment of hyperacidity should be extended. In certain 
cases it may be wise even to proceed on the lines laid down 
for the treatment of gastric ulcer, and to maintain an empty 
stomach for two or three days with the use of saline injections 
per rectum, while lavage is performed daily. Milk to the value 
of 560 calories may then be commenced, and with complete 
rest in bed the full milk-carbo-hydrate diet described in con- 
nexion with gastric ulcer may be reached at the end of a month. 
As regards the continuance of lavage, one must be guided by 
the degree of discomfort which persists and especially by its 
occurrence at night. Thenceforward the treatment must be 
such as has been described for hyperacidity, attention being 
paid to the rectifying of all the errors of diet and life which 
have often contributed to the production of this state. But 
progress will often be slow and great patience is necessary. 

(6) PAROXYSMAL OR INTERMITTENT HYPERSECRETION 

This condition may be mentioned here, though it has not 
necessarily any connexion with hyperacidity. In its pure 
form it lies quite apart from that condition, having only this 
in common, viz., that it is clearly a neurosis independent of 
any change in the stomach, a manifestation in fact of some dis- 
turbance arising elsewhere, which produces its end-effect through 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 517 

the vagus. It may bear a close resemblance to migraine and 
in some cases the distinction cannot be made. Its resemblance 
to the gastric crisis of tabes must always be borne in mind. A 
single attack might be mistaken for the result of some indigestible 
food or an irritant poison. 

Sufferers from this condition are usually young. Attacks 
are often met with in schoolboys. They are said to be pre- 
cipitated by emotion. Certainly there is sufficient evidence 
to warrant the prohibition of tobacco in these patients. The 
boy's first attempt to smoke will often result in an attack which 
at any rate has the superficial character of this form of hyper- 
secretion. I have known it to follow the smoking of an unusually 
strong cigar by an adult. In many cases no dietetic or other 
error can be discovered, and the occurrence of attacks is capricious 
and inexplicable. 

As the name indicates, the trouble occurs in isolated attacks, 
the general health and the digestion being often perfect in the 
intervals. Occasionally there is a history of co-existing hyper- 
acidity. It has been mentioned in connexion with hyperacidity 
that attacks of severe gastric pain probably due to pyloric spasm 
with profuse pyrosis sometimes occur. It is probable that 
these attacks are due to sudden purposeless secretion of gastric 
juice, but I know of no exact observations as to the contents 
of the stomach at this time, and opportunity for examination 
is rare, as vomiting is uncommon. In fact the proof of the 
nature of an attack can only come from examination of the 
vomit. But if an attack occurs (as is common) with an empty 
stomach, especially at night, the presumption is strong that 
it is an instance of paroxysmal hypersecretion and not a mere 
digestive disturbance. 

The attack usually begins rather suddenly, often in the 
night, and in typical instances with an empty stomach. Dis- 
comfort in the epigastrium soon rises to actual pain, which 
may be severe. Flatulence and eructations are common, prob- 
ably due to the interaction of gastric juice and swallowed saliva. 
Pyrosis is usually the next event, and saliva may stream from 
the mouth. Vomiting sets in and generally gives some relief 
for a time. A highly acid fluid is evacuated as in the case 



518 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of continuous hypersecretion, and acid has been found to the 
amount of 0'5 per cent. Not only is there epigastric and sub- 
sternal burning and pain, but in many cases from the character 
of the pain one must conclude that some part of the stomach- 
wall, probably the pylorus, is in a state of violent spasm. It 
may be so severe that the hands grow cold and the face pale, 
and the mistake may be made of confounding it with a biliary 
colic. Thirst is often experienced and relief may be gained 
by drinking alkaline water. 

Such an attack usually passes off in a few hours or in a day 
or two, and good health is resumed, though a weakly patient 
may be left somewhat prostrate. It may not recur for weeks 
or months. Sometimes the attack is associated with or fol- 
lowed by severe headache, so that the resemblance to migraine 
may be close. I know of no case where visual phenomena 
have occurred. 

If hyperacidity coexists, the line of dietetic treatment has 
already been indicated. But in the pure form of paroxysmal 
hypersecretion with intervals of good health there is little to 
be done. The diet, however, must be examined and if necessary 
simplified. Without any reasons to advance in favour of such 
a view, I believe it is well to diminish the meat taken by such 
patients, allowing it only at one meal in the day, preferably 
at the midday meal. Tobacco and alcohol should be curtailed 
or forbidden. Opportunity may be taken to ensure good teeth 
and slow mastication. I think the tendency to this condition 
wears out with increasing years and wisdom, as is certainly 
the case with migraine. 

MOTOR INSUFFICIENCY AND DILATATION 

Under this head are included a large number of conditions 
which have this point in common, that the stomach is not emptied 
within the normal limits of time. With this defect there is 
often associated a secretory insufficiency, but this is not always 
the case. Motor insufficiency may exist without dilatation, 
but of all cases of dilatation of the stomach, motor insufficiency 
actual or relative is the immediate cause. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 519 

The group may be divided into three classes : 

(1) Pure motor insufficiency (gastric myasthenia) without 
dilatation, an impairment of the expulsive power, which results 
in an abnormal tarrying of food in the stomach and a conse- 
quent shortening of the rest-periods of that organ. This may 
be regarded as the initial stage of the next class. 

(2) Dilatation (primary gastrectasis) without any pyloric 
obstruction. This results from continued motor insufficiency, 
delayed digestion and yielding of the stomach-wall, and it must 
not be confounded with mere temporary distension by gas. A 
knowledge of the causes of this condition will show that it pre- 
sents a great field for dietetic treatment. In some cases it 
clearly arises from over-indulgence in food and drink, from 
sheer bulk and weight of material taken with short intervals 
into the stomach, which is often associated with imperfect mas- 
tication and rapid swallowing. Both on the motor and on the 
secretory side enormous demands are thus made on the stomach. 
The condition of the teeth must always be examined. In many 
such cases alcoholic drinks are also taken in excess, and in these, 
as is described elsewhere, a chronic catarrhal gastritis is often 
present. A moderate degree of dilatation may also occur in 
connexion with hyperacidity, and its mode of origin is mentioned 
under that heading. In all cases, therefore, of dilatation result- 
ing from abuse of food and drink, from chronic gastritis, and 
from hyperacidity, the mere regulation of diet and the teaching 
of the principles of digestion will often go far to effect a cure. 

In another class the myasthenia underlying the dilatation 
is the expression or result of some general condition. Thus it 
may follow many of the specific fevers. It occurs in connexion 
with tuberculosis, malaria, renal disease, and anaemia of all 
kinds, and, in fact, with any state of profound impairment of 
health. 

Finally, it may occur as a part of neurasthenia, and it is 
probable that the same quick fatigue, slowness of repair, and 
absence of reserve are to be noted in the stomach as in the general 
musculature of such patients. The effect is liable to be greatly 
aggravated by strong emotion or strain. The treatment of 
such cases presents great difficulty. 



520 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

(3) Dilatation (secondary gastrectasis), due to pyloric ob- 
struction. In this class the actual muscular strength of the 
stomach is often increased, but owing to the narrowing of the 
exit there is a relative motor insufficiency. Under this head 
are included such matters as pyloric carcinoma, cicatricial stenosis 
of pylorus or duodenum, pyloric adhesions, hypertrophic stenosis, 
and perhaps some instances of pyloric ulcer with spasm. 

On meeting with a case of gastric dilatation, the first neces- 
sity is to settle the question of its obstructive or non-obstructive 
character. In the former case treatment by dieting may be 
necessary, but it can only be palliative and surgical treatment 
should be adopted as early as possible. 

In dealing with a case of non-obstructive dilatation a 
clear idea must be gained as to its origin, and in many directions, 
hygienic and therapeutic, a way may be seen by which some 
improvement can be quickly effected. The principles of die- 
tetic treatment are plain. In many cases of slighter degree they 
are easily carried out, and are quickly effective. But the matter 
is one of much greater difficulty, when with the motor insuffi- 
ciency there is defective secretion of hydrochloric acid. In 
such cases, which form the most severe type, the trouble is 
aggravated by fermentation and development of gas. The 
treatment of a neurasthenic woman of middle age with slow 
digestion, some dilatation of the stomach, and a moderate degree 
of gastroptosis is a most difficult task. 

The immediate need is the use of food in minimal quantity 
and of minimal weight, of such a character that it shall be most 
easily prepared for intestinal digestion and expelled from the 
stomach. But there need be no fear of passing the patient if 
necessary through a preliminary period of malnutrition, so as 
to evoke by a period of stomach-rest such natural tendency to 
recovery as may be possible. And in severe cases a few days 
of complete rest of body and stomach with the use of rectal saline 
injections should be the first step. 

Food must be of small bulk and weight. Consequently fluids 
should be cut down to the minimum compatible with comfort, 
and a pure milk diet which would otherwise be desirable is out 
of the question. In severe cases it has been recommended that 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 521 

a really dry diet should be adopted, and that the required fluid 
should be administered per rectum. But a certain quantity of 
fluid is absolutely necessary in the stomach to ensure fluidity 
and ready expulsion of digested food, and 20-30 oz. of fluid by 
the mouth in twenty-four hours, taken in small quantities at a 
time, is essential for this purpose. Some patients can take less 
without discomfort. Alcohol should be entirely forbidden. 
There is evidence to show that its absorption from the stomach 
is followed by a secretion of fluid into the stomach. No spices 
or condiments should be allowed. Tea and coffee should be 
forbidden, as tending to delay digestion. Food should be hot 
rather than cold, and a temperature of 110-130 F. is safe and 
useful. Meals should be small and frequent, and in laying down 
details of the diet it must be remembered that every article 
should be of maximum nutritive value, and that digested food 
leaves the stomach in the shortest time if it is readily converted 
into semi-fluid or pultaceous form. Green vegetables are there- 
fore excluded. If there is evidence to show that gastric secre- 
tion is of full value, protein may be freely given, but meat should 
be finely divided, and so slightly cooked as to be easily digested. 
Sweetbread and oysters may be given. Raw meat is often of 
use. If, on the other hand, secretory insufficiency is present, 
carbo-hydrates in the form most easily digested must form a 
larger proportion of the diet, notwithstanding their liability to 
undergo fermentation. Fat is of use, and fresh butter and cream 
are usually well taken. All food should be taken slowly and 
with deliberation, so that mouth digestion should have full time, 
and even in the slighter cases, an hour of complete rest lying 
down should be taken after the chief meals. A preliminary 
period of lavage is always necessary, and the result obtained 
will give a guide as to the necessity of continuing it. Massage, 
douching and electrical treatment are most useful. 

In the first stage of treatment complete rest in bed is advis- 
able. The diet, which allows of some variety, should consist of 
milk, plasmon, toast, rusks, butter, cream, eggs, raw meat or 
beef juice and perhaps pounded fish. Considering the great 
fall in the value of gastric digestion, one may be tempted to use 
the trade-preparations of peptones or rather albumoses, as 



522 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

calculated to take the place of protein. There is no doubt that 
such preparations can replace protein in the diet, and that the 
nitrogen-equilibrium can be so maintained. But though such 
articles as somatose, Denayer's albumose-peptone mixture, and 
Carnrick's peptonoids may be used in some cases with advan- 
tage (especially when the stay of food in the stomach is so pro- 
longed that decomposition of protein may occur), it is better 
as a rule to depend entirely on intestinal digestion and to aim 
at giving such protein-food as shall be quickly discharged from 
the stomach. Oysters, sweetbread, raw scraped beef, pounded 
fish and chicken with a few ounces of milk fulfil this require- 
ment. 

A diet to supply about 1,500 calories may be arranged as 
follows : 

8 a.m Milk (5 oz.) one or two eggs, two pieces of thin 

toast with butter. 
10.30 a.m. . . . Milk (5 oz.) with plasmon (for use cp. gastric ulcer), 

a rusk, two raw meat sandwiches. 
1 p.m Milk (5 oz.) fish-cake or fish-soufflee, custard, toast 

and butter. 

4.30 p.m. . . . As at 10.30 a.m. 

7.30 p.m. . . . Milk (5 oz.) one or two eggs, toast and butter. 
10 p.m Cup of arrowroot with cream. 

In a later stage the diet may be extended by the addition 
of chicken panada or soufflee, raw oysters, sweetbread, minced 
mutton, milk-jelly, potato-puree, other forms of carbo-hydrates, 
and cocoa. And if the results are favourable, a claret glass of 
water, plain or aerated, may be allowed at lunch and dinner. 
The following is an outline of such a diet, which is sufficient 
for a patient taking light exercise. Rest after the chief meals 
should still be adhered to. 

DIET IN DILATATION OF THE STOMACH. 

8 a.m Cocoa made with milk, 5 oz. (or milk and plas- 
mon). 

One or two eggs (or fish-cake, 1 oz.). 

Thin toast, 1 oz. 

Butter, J oz. 
10.30 a.m. . . . Milk, 5 oz. 

Rusk. 

Raw meat sandwich, J oz. of meat. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 52S 

1 p.m Milk, 5 oz. 

Fish-cake or fish-soufflee, 2 oz. (or oysters). 

Chicken panada, 2 oz. 

Potato-puree, 1 oz. 

Blancmange, 2 oz. (or custard). 

Toast, 1J oz. 

Butter, $ oz. 

4.30 p.m. . . . As at 10.30 a.m. 
7.30 p.m. . . . Milk-soup, 5 oz. (or milk). 

Sweetbread, 2 oz. (or minced mutton). 

Blancmange and cream, 2 oz. (or grape-nuts). 

Toast, 1 oz. 

Butter, i oz. 

Water, 6 oz. 
10 p.m Arrowroot with or without cream, 6 oz. 

The following diet, supplying about 1,600 calories, is recom- 
mended by Wegele in gastric myasthenia with reduced secretory 
activity : 

Morning .... Leguminose cocoa, 150 grms. 

Cream, 50 grms. 
Forenoon . . . One soft egg. 

Toast, 20 grms. 
Noon .... Scraped beef -steak, 100 grms. 

Mashed potato, 200 grms. 

Malt extract, 20 grms. 
Afternoon . . . Leguminose cocoa, 150 grms. 

Cream, 50 grms. 
Evening . . . Tapioca pulp, 250 grms. 

Diastase malt extract, 15 grms. 
During the day . Toast, 50 grms. 
10 p.m Milk, 200 grms. 

Cognac, 10 grms. 

Finally, in the stage of convalescence and for long thereafter, 
the diet must be simple and spare, and the meals small and 
slowly eaten. The amount of fluid should be kept in check, 
30 oz. being an ample allowance in the twenty-four hours in 
most cases, 40 oz. being the outside limit. 

In the non-obstructive form of dilatation we are concerned 
mainly with the ensuring of quick emptying of the stomach, 
and we rest content with intestinal digestion. But in the ob- 
structive form, whatever may be the cause of the pyloric stenosis* 
our object is to ensure the greatest absorption of food products 
in the stomach itself. Here peptonized and predigested foods 
find their chief use. Peptonized milk, somatose, panopepton, 
Benger's peptonized beef-jelly, Valentine's meat-juice, maltine, 



524 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

and many other preparations are useful. The non-fermentable 
lactose should be substituted for other carbo-hydrates, and J 
oz. of it can be given in 8 oz. of milk. But dietetic treatment 
in this condition should only be a temporary measure pending 
operation. 



GASTROPTOSIS 

Dietetic treatment can have no influence on the position of 
the stomach, and any attempt at a cure can only be made by 
exercises, mechanical support, and surgical treatment. But 
something can be done to relieve the symptoms. As a rule the 
actual complaint of the patient arises from stagnation of the 
contents of the stomach. A sensation of weight, fullness and 
oppression, and eructation, nausea and vomiting are the usual 
clinical features. These troubles result in the discarding of one 
food-article after another, until malnutrition becomes obvious. 
The aim of dietetic treatment here is the same as in dilatation 
of the stomach, and we have to provide an adequate supply of 
food which shall be most easily digested and shall leave the 
stomach in the shortest time. Efficient mastication and slow 
eating are of the utmost importance. All meat should be finely 
minced and rubbed through a sieve. Vegetables such as cauli- 
flower, spinach and asparagus may be allowed. Butter, cream 
and honey may be taken freely. Meals should be small and 
frequent, and, as in dilatation, only such an amount of fluid 
should be taken as is necessary to produce the requisite con- 
sistence of the contents of the stomach. In all cases it is im- 
portant that the patient should lie down for an hour after meals 
with the thorax at any rate on the same plane as the abdomen, 
and occasionally further benefit is obtained if the body is slightly 
inclined to the right side. 

In some severe cases when the lesser curvature of the stomach 
is near the umbilicus, if surgical treatment cannot be obtained 
or has failed to give relief, the condition is hopeless. One sees 
women occasionally who have gravitated to a diet of milk, 
Benger's food and Brand's essence, by taking which at frequent 
intervals they preserve life without pleasure. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 525 

In a few cases, only I think with a moderate degree of 
descent of the stomach, the actual symptoms depend on hyper- 
acidity, and in these fortunate patients the line of treatment 
suggested in that condition will commonly give some relief. 



GASTRITIS 

A. ACUTE GASTRITIS 

In the common form of acute gastritis the changes are almost 
entirely limited to the mucosa. The condition is therefore often 
termed (1) simple gastritis or gastric catarrh. It is thus dis- 
tinguished from the rarer and more severe inflammations, in 
which the changes involve a greater depth of the stomach-wall 
such as (2) the toxic gastritis resulting from the swallowing of 
irritant poison, and (3) infectious gastritis due to various bacteria, 
especially streptococcus. 

Simple gastritis is marked off from the other common forms 
of dyspepsia by its acute onset following on some generally 
recognizable cause, by the prominence of vomiting as a symp- 
tom, and by the appearance of mucus in the vomit. It is often 
associated with a similar condition in the small intestine, and 
it is sometimes followed by catarrhal jaundice. 

In considering the treatment of simple acute gastritis, it is 
necessary in the first place to understand the origin of the con- 
dition, inasmuch as it is generally avoidable ; and in many 
cases it is easy to lay down a few wholesome regulations which 
will serve to prevent subsequent attacks. It may follow any 
error of diet. The taking of a large quantity of indigestible or 
irritating food is a common cause, and an attack is the more 
likely to occur if this is bolted either from carelessness or as a 
result of defective teeth. This is a common cause in children. 
Indulgence in ices on a large scale may produce it. It is a com- 
mon result of alcoholic debauch, and it is the natural ending 
which closes each drink-attack of the dipsomaniac. It may be 
produced by decomposing food, and is then usually associated 
with a catarrhal enteritis. It is sometimes noted as an early 



526 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

symptom of some specific fevers. Occasionally attacks of 
considerable severity occur with fever, pain and tenderness, 
and it is probable that these are of bacterial origin, though they 
may end in speedy recovery. It is clear that some people have 
a natural tendency to develop gastric catarrh on slight provo- 
cation, and in these more particularly a regulation of diet is 
important. In the second place it is necessary for the purpose 
of treatment to realize, that during the acute stage the gastric 
secretion is scanty and the power of digestion is imperfect or 
absent for a time, so that complete starvation is both necessary 
and physiologically correct. Nearly complete rest to the stomach 
leads to a rapid recovery. This should be obtained without 
regard to opposition from relatives. 

In severe cases with some collapse a few saline injections 
per rectum may be given, but this is seldom necessary, as ab- 
stinence from food need not be maintained for more than a 
day or two as a rule. Thirst is a prominent symptom at first. 
Ice, iced water, or iced champagne are often allowed in small 
doses at this stage ; but though they are grateful to the patient, 
I think it is better to give hot water in teaspoon doses to the 
amount if necessary of 10-15 oz. in the first 24 hours. The 
vomiting is not altogether harmful, and it may be disregarded. 
Alcohol should be avoided, unless it is absolutely necessary in 
weakly subjects. In 24 or 36 hours feeding may be resumed 
on a small scale, milk diluted (4 to 1) with lime-water, soda- 
water or barley-water being tried at first. Of this mixture 20 
or 30 oz. can commonly be taken in the first day. From this 
time onwards it is a matter of graduated increase of food, until 
a normal full diet can be established. The materials used at 
first should be milk with a decreasing amount of dilution, albumin- 
water (the white of one egg stirred up in 10 oz. of water with 
a little salt) and whey ; and to all of these a little brandy or 
sherry may be added if necessary. As a rule on the fourth or 
fifth day carbo-hydrates can be added in the form of arrowroot, 
toast or rusks, and these with 30 oz. of milk (some of it preferably 
in the form of blancmange), one or two eggs poached or lightly 
boiled and some beef -tea or clear soup will form a sufficient diet. 

About the third day Boas recommends the following diet : 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 527 

8 a.m Milk (with tea), 200 grms. 

Zwieback, 50 grms. 

10 a.m Bouillon with egg, 200 grms. 

Noon .... Milk-soup, 200 grms. 

Toast, 60 grms. 
3 p.m Milk, 130 grms. 

Cakes, 50 grms. 
7 p.m Milk-soup with rice, 200 grms. 

Zwieback, 50 grms. 

Subsequent extensions by the addition of fish and chicken 
may be quickly made. At this point if the origin of the attack 
is clear, final injunctions should be given as regards a healthy 
diet and the avoidance of future attacks. 

In the toxic and infective forms of acute gastritis, both of 
which involve immediate risk to life, the problem consists in 
the maintenance of strength with abstinence from food over a 
much longer period of time. During the early days of imminent 
danger rectal feeding must be adopted in its most efficient form. 

(B) CHRONIC GASTRITIS 

This term was formerly used to denote nearly every form 
of chronic dyspepsia. Now that the great gastric neuroses 
and functional disorders are defined and separated off, chronic 
gastritis, though still an important matter, becomes a com- 
paratively infrequent disease. In practice, however, the old 
loose usage of the term is still occasionally met with. 

As in the case of acute gastritis, prophylactic treatment 
requires a knowledge of the causation, (a) The primary form. 
It is possible that repeated attacks of acute gastritis may lead 
to this chronic state, but I believe that this sequence is only 
met with when the acute attacks are due to alcoholic excess. 
The causes, however, that have been mentioned as producing 
acute gastritis are also responsible for the chronic condition, 
but this chronic gastritis has a slow and insidious beginning and 
is seldom preceded by acute attacks except in alcoholic subjects. 
It can be set up by long-continued over-eating and overdrinking, 
by habitual hurry and food-bolting. The amount and character 
of the food, and the pace of eating, all play a part. Richness 
of food, generally synonymous with indigestibility, abuse of 
spices, condiments and ices, and perhaps of tea and coffee, should 



528 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

be noted. Tobacco-chewing will certainly produce it, and it 
is thought by some that excessive smoking can contribute to 
the causation. It is possible that carious teeth may have an 
influence through the swallowing of bacterial products in pyor- 
rhoea alveolaris as well as through defective mastication. It is 
said that every one has the stomach which he deserves, and all 
these causes of what may be termed a primary chronic gastritis 
are avoidable. 

(b) The secondary form. But chronic gastritis may be 
secondary to other conditions. It is especially apt to occur in 
cirrhosis of the liver. In fact, the most typical examples are 
met with in that disease. Similarly it occurs as the result of 
the passive hyperaemia due to cardiac failure, and it often turns 
the scale in the final stage of valvular disease. It supervenes 
occasionally in long standing cases of hyperacidity, and some 
degree of chronic gastritis is commonly present with carcinoma 
of the stomach. Finally it may appear in various conditions 
of impaired health, such as tuberculosis, anaemia and chronic 
nephritis. 

It will be seen on reference to the subject of motor insuffi- 
ciency and dilatation of the stomach, that all these same causes 
are there in operation. And it is true that, given the same 
vicious diet or habits, or the same enfeebled health, one patient 
may develop a chronic gastritis and another a motor impairment 
and dilatation. It is not possible to separate these two con- 
ditions as sharply in practice as in theory, and they often co-exist. 

The establishment of a suitable diet requires a knowledge 
of the state of the gastric secretion. As regards this point, Boas 
recognizes four varieties : (1) Gastritis acida, (2) anacida, (3) mu- 
cipara, (4) atrophicans. As regards the first of these forms, it 
has been already stated that a chronic gastritis may occasionally 
supervene on hyperacidity. Putting this uncommon occur- 
rence on one side, we may say that in chronic gastritis the secre- 
tion of hydrochloric acid is diminished. On examination the 
acid is found to be present in combination with protein, but 
as free acid it is greatly diminished or absent. This deficiency 
and an increased production of mucus are, in fact, the main 
clinical features of the disease. In the atrophic variety, a late 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 529 

stage of great rarity, both combined and free acid may be absent, 
and even the gastric ferments become scanty or cease to appear. 
In a case of chronic interstitial nephritis with persistent vomiting 
under my care, the contents of the stomach an hour after a test- 
breakfast were neutral, and pepsin was entirely absent. Motor 
impairment is common in chronic gastritis, and some dilatation 
may take place, but in some cases muscular power is certainly 
normal, and peristalsis may even become visible. 

In slight and early cases the recognition of the cause and its 
removal may allow a return to health, though a short course of 
milk diet will probably be necessary. But in severe cases it 
may be taken as certain that, if the diagnosis is correct, con- 
siderable changes have already occurred in the gastric mucosa, 
and the dietetic treatment will be a long and wearisome process. 
It should be pointed out to the patient that half measures are 
useless. He must devote himself entirely to his cure and must 
retire to bed. Lavage is always necessary. 

If there is fair digestive power and free acid is found after 
a test-breakfast, it is sometimes possible to start with the diet 
which is suggested as the first step in the treatment of dilata- 
tion. But as a rule it is wiser to begin with a milk diet, and I 
think that milk alone should be given in spite of the disadvantages 
of its bulk and weight. Forty oz. of milk should be diluted with 
8 oz. of lime-water, soda-water or barley-water, and of this mix- 
ture 8 oz. may be taken slowly every three hours for 6 doses in 
the day. It should not be cold, but the patient may have some 
choice in the temperature. Koumiss or kephir may be used, 
but many patients dislike them. The duration of this stage 
must vary with the results, but it is well to proceed very slowly, 
and a week or 10 days on this 800 calorie diet is certainly not 
too severe as a rule. If vomiting occurs, it will be necessary 
to peptonize the milk and to begin with smaller doses. The 
amount of milk may be gradually increased to 50 oz., and not 
until this amount can be taken without discomfort should any 
extension of diet be made. This point may not be reached for 
two or three weeks. 

As regards the next step, it must be remembered that diges- 
tion of protein is at a low level and that carbo-hydrates, on the 

34 



530 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

other hand, are apt to undergo fermentation with development 
of injurious organic acids, though something can be done to 
check bacterial and toruloid action by medicinal remedies. 
Both protein and carbo-hydrate food should be added to the 
diet, but both of these in small quantities. The treatment 
throughout must be tentative and cautious. Extra protein 
can be obtained by giving one or two eggs beaten up in milk, 
or from plasmon, or from raw beef juice, beef-tea, or somatose. 
The carbo-hydrate element is best given in the form of Benger's 
food or arrowroot. The following is an outline of such a diet, 
supplying about 1,200 calories : 

8 a.m Milk, 8 oz. with plasmon. 

10 a.m Milk and egg. 

Noon Beef-tea, 6 oz. or meat-jelly. 

2 p.m Milk and plasmon. 

4 p.m Milk and egg or junket and cream. 

7 p.m Benger's food, 8 oz. 

10 p.m Milk and plasmon. 

Boas recommends the following diet at this stage, amounting 
to 2,200 calories : 

8 a.m Milk and flour soup, 200 grms (milk, 100 

grms). 

Bread, 50 grms. 

Butter, 30 grms. 
10 a.m Eggs, 2. 

White bread, 50 grms., butter, 30 grms. 

Or with this scraped beef, 60 grms. 
Noon Farina milk-soup, 200 grms. 

Milk and rice, 200 grms. 

Prunes, 100 grms. 

3 p.m Milk and tea or coffee 200 grms. (J milk). 

White bread, 50 grms. 

7 p.m Rice and milk-soup, 200 grms. 

Zwieback, 50 grms. 

Later the same diet can be adopted as is recommended as 
the first step in cases of dilatation of the stomach, eggs, fish, 
raw meat, toast and butter being permitted, while alcohol, tea, 
coffee, sugar, spices and condiments are still forbidden. Ewald's 
diet-list is as follows : 

8 a.m Tea, 150-200 grms. 

Stale wheat-bread, toast or zwieback, 100 grms. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 531 

10 a.m Wheat-bread, 50 grms. 

Butter, 10 grms. 

Cold meat or ham, 50 grms. 

Milk, | litre or one glass of light wine. 

2 p.m Water, milk, or bouillon of white meats, 150-200 

grms. 

Meat or fish, 100-125 grms. 

Vegetables, 30-100 grms. 

Compote, 80 grms. 
4.30 p.m. . . . Warm milk or chocolate or milk and coffee (half 

and half) litre. 
7.30 p.m. . . . Soup, 300 grms. 

Wheat-bread, 50 grms. 

Butter, 10 grms. 

10 p.m Occasionally one cup of coffee and 50 grms. of 

wheat-bread, biscuit, or zwieback. 

In a later stage the final diet recommended in dilatation of 
the stomach is suitable, a moderate mixed diet in six meals. 
And from some such diet there should be no hurry to depart. 
Alcoholic subjects should be urged to become total abstainers. 
In others a glass of Rhine or Moselle wine may be permitted at 
lunch and dinner, but under no circumstances should alcohol 
be taken except with meals. 

For chronic gastritis with impairment of digestive power 
Wegele recommends the following diet, having a value of 2,400 
calories : 

Morning .... Pepton-cocoa, 150 grms. 

Butter on toast, 25 grms. 
Forenoon . . . One soft-boiled egg. 
Noon Oatmeal soup, 200 grms. 

Fowl, 150 grms. 

Carrot, 200 grms. 
Afternoon . . . Pepton-cocoa, 150 grms. 

Butter and biscuits, 25 grms. 
Evening .... One egg. 

Scraped ham, 100 grms. 

Macaroni with toasted bread-crumbs, 100 grms. 
During the day . Wine, 200 grms. 

Toast, 75 grms. 

For cases with complete loss of digestive power, reference 
may be made to the food-stuffs mentioned under Carcinoma of 
the Stomach. 



532 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

CARCINOMA OF THE STOMACH 

The prescription of a suitable diet in carcinoma of the stomach 
presents great difficulties and no one dietary will suit all cases. 
But there are certain general principles which should be observed. 
In the first place it must be confessed that we are dealing with an 
incurable disease, and consequently great freedom of choice 
should be allowed to the patient. The fancies and cravings of 
the patient should be gratified as far as possible. It is curious 
how, even in an advanced stage, a patient may ask for and digest 
some article of food which one would have thought was beyond 
his power. In the second place when the clinical picture is one 
of pyloric obstruction (cp. obstructive dilatation), we can only 
aim at ensuring the greatest absorption of nutritive material 
from the stomach itself, and this is always of small value. Gastro- 
enterostomy or other surgical measure should be undertaken at 
once. If this is refused or from any cause is impossible, lavage 
is the only alternative. Though nutritive material is wasted by 
lavage, it is better to introduce new absorbable food into a clean 
stomach than to continually add fresh portions to a fermenting 
mass. The articles which may be found useful in such cases are : 
thin toast or rusks, peptonized milk, plasmon and plasmon pre- 
parations, somatose, Fairchild's panopepton, Benger's pep- 
tonized beef -jelly, Brand's nutrient powder, Carnrick's peptonoids 
Leube-Rosenthal meat solution, Valentine's meat-juice, kefir 
or koumiss, Benger's food, Grape-nuts, the " Allenbury " food, 
maltine, honey, Biedert's cream mixture (4 oz. of cream with 
90 grains of lactose) and raw meat-juice. Alcohol should be 
given if possible, preferably as brandy. A diet can be con- 
structed from these materials which shall allow of some choice 
on the part of the patient. 

In the third place when the pylorus is patent, the conditions 
are the same as in chronic gastritis, but they are of greater severity 
and do not contain the same prospect of improvement. In fact 
some gastritis is commonly associated with carcinoma. Free 
acid is absent and there is often some motor insufficiency. Though 
attention may be paid to providing such predigested food-stuffs 
(mentioned above) as may be most readily absorbed from the 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 533 

stomach, we must realize that gastric digestion is a thing of the 
past. The administration of hydrochloric acid, pepsin, and 
gastric stimulants is singularly inefficient. Consequently we 
must rely chiefly on intestinal digestion and our object is not so 
much to increase gastric absorption as to ensure by a suitable 
diet a quick emptying of the stomach. Here also help may often 
be obtained from gastro-enterostomy. Reference may be made 
to the diets suggested under the headings of dilatation and chronic 
gastritis. Alcohol should be added. A mixed protein and Carbo- 
hydrate diet should be maintained as long as possible. 

The following diet giving 1,260 calories may be quoted as 
recommended by Wegele in cases of carcinoma without pyloric 
obstruction : 

Morning .... Malto-leguminose cocoa, 150 grms. 

Forenoon. . . . Kefir, 200 grms. 

Noon .... Malto-leguminose soup, 150 grms. 

Scraped beef -steak, 100 grms. 

Afternoon . . . Malto-leguminose cocoa, 150 grms. 
Evening .... Scraped ham, 100 grms. 

Tapioca, 150 grms. 

10 p.m Kefir, 200 grms. 

During the day . Toast, 50 grms. 

With the cocoa honey, 30 grms. 

With the kefir cognac, 20 grms. 

As an outline of a diet supplying 2,300 calories, which is pos- 
sible in an early stage of carcinoma, Biedert recommends : 

6 a.m Milk, 250 c.c. ; toast, 30 grms. 

8 a.m 2 eggs ; toast, 20 grms. 

10 a.m Cream, 125 c.c. ; 2 zwieback. 

Noon Meat, 140 grms. ; toast, 40 grms. ; soda-cake, 

cinnamon-cake, coffee-cake, biscuit, 25 grms. 
4 p.m Milk-cocoa, 250 c.c. ; 3 zwieback with fruit -jelly. 

7 p.m Rice-mush, 2 zwieback. 

10 p.m Milk, 250 c.c. ; 2 zwieback. 

Finally, in some cases of highly cellular carcinoma with rapid 
ulceration, from the dietetic point of view the characters are 
those of gastric ulcer, and haemorrhage may be a prominent 
feature. As in gastric ulcer we are compelled to employ rest to 
the stomach and rectal feeding. 

In cases of carcinoma of the cardiac end of the stomach or 
of the oasophagus, if operation is refused or impossible, it is neces- 
sary to depend entirely on rectal feeding. Subcutaneous feeding 



534 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

may be combined with this, but its value is very small. Sterilized 
olive oil (or sesame oil) 30-40 c.c. may be injected subcutaneously 
or into muscle with a 10 c.c. syringe at various spots once a day. 



FLATULENCE 

If flatulence is defined as discomfort arising from an abnormal 
amount of gas in the stomach with or without eructation of gas, 
it is a symptom in many conditions. It is so frequently placed 
in the front of the patient's complaint, that it deserves separate 
consideration, especially as dietetic measures are generally 
needed in treatment. For so common a matter, its origin is 
curiously obscure. In some cases the origin of the gas has never 
been demonstrated. The cause is often to be found in faulty 
eating and errors of diet, and these cases are easily rectified, 
though they are not so easily explained. In other cases the 
origin is a matter of guess-work and the whole subject presents 
difficulties. 

(1) A considerable amount of air is swallowed with food and 
saliva. Under normal conditions no discomfort results and 
presumably the air is passed on into the bowel, though there is 
no evidence to disprove that it may not also be absorbed by 
the stomach-wall. Such absorption of gas certainly occurs in 
the intestine. Flatulence, however, as defined above may be 
produced from air so swallowed. It is commonly a result of the 
quick eating of a large meal, especially if large quantities of fluid 
are taken. A feeling of distension and some gaseous eructation 
may then be experienced long before the meal is over. Whether 
more air is then swallowed or whether its normal disposal is pre- 
vented by closure of the pylorus or otherwise is uncertain. The 
remedy is obvious. It is especially important to diminish the 
amount of fluid taken at meals. 

Some people, mostly middle-aged women, are plagued with 
gastric noises and eructations apart from meals and at awkward 
times. It has been thought that they have acquired the habit 
of swallowing air apart from saliva. I have seen nothing to 
support this theory, and I believe that the gas has the same 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 635 

origin as in some obscure conditions mentioned later. But one 
cannot help thinking that in these women the noise is quite out 
of proportion to the amount of gas, and it may be produced in 
the oesophagus. 

(2) In health some C0 3 is added to the air in the stomach by 
the action of hydrochloric acid on the carbonates of the food and 
saliva. In disease, especially in conditions of motor insufficiency, 
gastrectasis and chronic gastritis, this is greatly increased by the 
fermentation of carbo-hydrates, especially the butyric acid fer- 
mentation of which hydrogen also is a product. In slight 
degree it is a common complaint in the obese. The dietetic 
treatment has been already described. 

(3) In hyperacidity flatulence is often a prominent feature, 
but its origin is not quite certain. It is possible that when, as 
often happens in this condition, the flow of saliva is increased 
the amount of swallowed air may also be increased. It is possible 
also that there is an increased evolution of gas by the action of 
hydrochloric acid on the saliva, for as was shown by Sir William 
Roberts, the saliva in hyperacidity is more alkaline than in health. 
He found the alkalinity equal to 0*04 per cent of hydrochloric 
acid. It is not unlikely that gas is regurgitated into the stomach 
from the duodenum, being evolved there by the action of the 
excessively acid chyme on the carbonates of the bile and pancreatic 
secretion. Carbo-hydrate-fermentation may add its quota to the 
flatulence, for considerable stagnation of the stomach-contents 
may occur in hyperacidity, and fermentation is always more 
influenced by delay of food in the stomach than by the degree of 
acidity reached. In the treatment of hyperacidity these con- 
siderations should be borne in mind. 

(4) Putrefactive decomposition of protein, which is abnormal 
process in the colon and which occasionally occurs under patho- 
logical conditions in the small intestine, is rarely met with in the 
stomach. It is limited to cases of long-standing and neglected 
gastrectasis. The gases formed are marsh-gas, hydrogen, carbon 
dioxide, and sulphuretted hydrogen. It is possible that in some 
such cases the gases may enter the stomach from the bowels. 
The diagnosis is not difficult and the line of treatment is plain. 

(5) There is a group of conditions, which present flatulence 



536 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

as a great source of trouble but which perhaps have little else 
in common. In all of these the stomach may quickly or sud- 
denly become distended with gas. Sometimes only a subjective 
feeling of distension is produced : more commonly there is actual 
distension and not only does the area of stomach-resonance 
encroach on the cardiac area, but the epigastrium is protruded 
and clothes must be loosened. It may be taken as certain that 
the gas in these cases is not evolved from any food in the stomach. 
Its evolution is too rapid, it has no constant relation to meals, it 
may occur with an empty stomach, and it is sometimes a regular 
precursor of other phenomena. It is possible that the gas is 
discharged into the stomach from the bowel, but this is very 
unlikely inasmuch as there is no evidence in such cases of any 
intestinal disorder which could lead to such an abundant develop- 
ment of gas. I think there is no other possible explanation than 
that the gas is C0 3 derived from the venous blood in the stomach- 
wall, and in the whole group there exist indications of some form 
of neurosis or nervous disturbance in which the vagus and its 
branches share. 

This form of sudden and voluminous flatulence occurs in 
some people of nervous temperament, as an isolated phenomenon, 
occurring at odd times and having no apparent relation with any 
previous factor or any event to follow. The type of person so 
affected is, I think, the industrious woman who takes life hardly 
from choice or necessity. But such an occurrence may be asso- 
ciated with a sense of cardiac oppression and pain or aching in 
the left arm. It is also a well known precursor of an attack of 
asthma. I have seen a nurse in whom it often occurred without 
other symptoms, though it was sometimes followed by a mild 
pseudo-angina and sometimes by an attack of true asthma. 

This same trouble, though less sudden and more lasting, is 
not uncommon in cardiac failure from any cause. Perhaps the 
associated venous hyperaemia of the stomach may contribute to 
it. But it occurs also in valvular disease, both of rheumatic 
and of arterio-sclerotic origin, when there is no sign of car- 
diac failure and when nothing in the history or appearance 
of the patient would lead one to suspect the existence of such 
disease. A still more serious matter is its occurrence in con- 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 537 

nexion with true angina. It may be the first symptom of an 
attack, and if the pain is placed centrally both physician and 
patient may fall into the error of regarding the case as one of gas- 
tric disorder. Apart from true angina, it occurs also in old people 
with considerable arterio-sclerosis, often in nocturnal attacks, 
and queer flatulence in such cases should always be treated 
with respect. 

The importance of this group from the dietetic point of view 
lies in the negative facts that the gas is not evolved from carbo- 
hydrates and that radical alteration of the diet is useless. Such 
treatment as is possible consists in the institution of small simple 
mixed meals, eaten slowly without excess of fluid, and followed 
by rest. The evening meal should be a light one. In the old 
man, who through ignorance retains the eating habits of his 
youth, some relief may be expected. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 



CHAPTER XVII 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 
BY HEBBERT P. HAWKINS, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

General considerations. Dietetic treatment is not so impor- 
tant in intestinal as in gastric disorder, inasmuch as the common 
errors of diet produce their effect in the stomach, and the intestine 
is shielded to some extent. It is more difficult and less exact, 
because the process of digestion in the small intestine is not fully 
known. Moreover, we have no direct means of ascertaining the 
state of the bowel as regards either its secretory or its motor 
power, and in order to estimate the value of intestinal digestion 
in any case we must be content with an endeavour to interpret 
the symptoms and physical signs. Examination of the stools 
gives some further evidence and it should always be practised. 
But minute examination is exceedingly difficult, and a rough 
examination is likely to afford more information as to the state 
of the colon than as to the digestive power of the small intestine. 
It is important to realize how completely the bowel is at the mercy 
of the stomach, and how any impairment of the preparatory and 
protective functions of the stomach may disturb the action of 
all parts below. This dependence of the intestine on the stomach 
is often a serious drawback in prescribing a diet, and an otherwise 
correct diet must often be modified owing to the coincidence of 
some gastric failure. 

DISEASES ASSOCIATED WITH DIARRHOEA 

Our knowledge of diarrhoea, its causes and varieties, is far 
from exact, but a classification is useful, even though it may not 
carry us far towards a diagnosis in individual cases. 

611 



542 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

(1) Diarrhoea may arise from the ingestion of irritating, 
indigestible or decomposing food. The actual cause of the diar- 
rhoea in such cases will be considered later. 

(2) It may result from defective gastric digestion. In most 
examples of gastric disorder there is constipation, and particu- 
larly is this the case in hyperacid states. But diarrhoea is some- 
times noted as occurring when the secretion of hydrochloric acid 
is diminished. This diarrhoea of gastric origin is probably due 
to the entrance into the bowel of material that has not been suffi- 
ciently prepared in the stomach, and it is not improbable that this 
insufficient preparation consists partly in insufficient disinfection 
of the food. At any rate an important preparatory and protec- 
tive function of the stomach has failed. 

(3) Theoretically, diarrhoea can result from defects in quantity 
or quality of bile, pancreatic secretion, and succus entericus. 
The first two of these secretions are considered elsewhere. Succus 
entericus probably plays a very important part in intestinal diges- 
tion, but little is known of the results that follow its failure. 
Besides its action on cane sugar and maltose, it seems to reinforce 
all the ferments of pancreatic secretion. Its alkalinity may also 
be of use, and a decrease in its secretion may thus have ill effects 
by allowing increased acidity in the small intestine. 

(4) Inflammation of the bowel, catarrhal or croupous, and 
ulceration of any origin are important causes. Generally speak- 
ing the diarrhoea is more violent in disease of the colon than in 
disease of the small intestine. 

(5) The effect of an abnormal growth of bacteria in the bowel, 
with alteration in numbers, virulence or species (as in typhoid 
fever, cholera and some forms of colitis) and the effect of toxaemia 
(bacterial as in septicaemia or toxic as in uraemia) may be allowed. 

(6) Finally, we may feel sure that in some cases diarrhoea 
depends on nothing more serious than a perversion of peristalsis, 
either of central nervous origin, or as a result of an abnormal 
sensibility of the intrinsic nervous mechanism in the intestinal 
wall. 

If dietetic treatment is to be accurate, some attempt must be 
made to utilize these theoretical considerations. But there are 
many difficulties. These causes often interact, they may be 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 643 

conjoined in various groupings, and one may lead to another, so 
that they defy analysis. 

No doubt diarrhoea can result from chemical or mechanical 
irritants such as mercury, decomposing meat or a meal of unripe 
apples. But it is exceedingly likely that even such simple causes 
produce their effect not directly but through bacterial agency, and 
that the bacteria normally present in the bowel undergo rapid 
development upon the introduction of such material. At any 
rate I think it must be allowed that whenever there is actual 
inflammation of the intestinal wall the immediate cause is the 
abnormal growth of bacteria and the products of their activity. 
It appears from Strasburger's observations that in all forms of 
diarrhoea the output of bacteria in the stools is greatly increased. 
The weight (dried) may reach 14 grammes or more per diem, as 
compared with an average of 8 grammes in health. Consequently 
the dietetic treatment of diarrhoea is largely bound up with the 
question of the possibility of influencing bacterial growth in the 
intestine by alteration and manipulation of food. 

Roughly speaking there are two classes of bacteria in the bowel, 
each of which occupies its own territory. In the small intestine 
the bacteria are mostly such as produce organic acids (lactic, 
acetic, and succinic) by their action on carbo-hydrates. The lower 
two-thirds of the colon hold the bacillus coli communis, and other 
protein-decomposing organisms. It seems to be established 
that both classes inhabit the caecum and first part of the colon : 
at any rate bacterial fermentation of carbo-hydrates has been 
demonstrated in this intermediate area. Only under pathological 
conditions do the protein-decomposing bacteria of the colon ap- 
pear or become obviously active above the ileo-ccecal valve. 

As regards the colon it must be remembered that here digestion 
proper is at an end. I do not think that the character of the 
food can have any material influence on bacteria of the colon, 
save indirectly by the choice of a diet leaving little residue and 
containing no hard or irritating particles. 

But as regards the small intestine it is probable that diet has 
some influence on bacterial growth, though it does not follow 
that we can use this influence satisfactorily in practice. In 
consequence of the steady production of acids by bacterial 



544 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

action on carbo-hydrates, the contents of the small intestine 
remain acid, notwithstanding the constant neutralizing effect 
of the alkaline succus entericus. It seems probable that this 
acidity has its use in restraining the growth of putrefactive 
protein-decomposing organisms, which, normally inhabiting the 
colon, might otherwise overrun and flourish in the small intestine. 
It is clear that under abnormal conditions such an invasion by 
putrefactive bacteria does actually occur. It is probable that by an 
increase of the carbo-hydrate element in the diet we can increase 
the degree of this protective acidity in the small intestine. In 
fact, the stools which are normally alkaline may become faintly 
acid on a free carbo-hydrate diet. There are cases in which a 
milk-carbo-hydrate diet based on these considerations should be 
used. Theory and practice, however, are not always in agree- 
ment. And it must be realized that beyond a certain point the 
increased acidity, with the inevitable development of gas, may 
itself act as an irritant and lead to increased peristalsis and fre- 
quent stools. This is the source of the gas in most cases, when 
intestinal flatulence is the chief complaint. 

In fact, this state of excessive fermentation and acidity in 
the small intestine can be recognized with some certainty. Diar- 
rhoea, colic and flatulence are its chief features. The term " acid 
jejunal diarrhoea " has been applied to it by Nothnagel. 

It is probable also that a similar excess of acidity of a more 
complex type may arise through deficiency of the alkaline succus 
entericus, which is a specialized secretion and is likely to fall off 
in amount under inflammatory conditions. Schmidt and Stras- 
burger recognize an " intestinal fermentation dyspepsia " as 
having such an origin. The symptoms of this condition are 
obscure pain in the abdomen, fullness and hyperaesthesia of the 
abdomen, a feeling of malaise, loss of appetite, furred tongue, and 
frequent loose stools, the faeces being frothy, yellow and acid, 
but containing no mucus. 

It will be seen, therefore, that there are cases of diarrhoea 
where the fermentation in the small intestine becomes undesir- 
able. Rapid improvement will sometimes occur when milk and 
carbo-hydrates are dropped and protein-feeding is begun. 

It must not be thought, however, that the influence of diet 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 545 

on the intestinal flora turns only on the rise and fall of the activity 
of the acid-producing bacteria in the small intestine. The con- 
ditions are probably far more complex, though it is impossible 
to trace their effects with accuracy. It is probable that other 
factors exist, such as the consistence of the food, the amount of 
fluid taken, the nature and number of the bacteria taken with 
the food, the value of the upper digestive secretions, and the motor 
power of stomach and intestine. An example showing the com- 
plexity of the problem is given by the undoubted fact that the 
stools in jaundice are often loose and offensive, and suggest that 
an abnormal bacterial decomposition of protein is taking place. 
It is certain that this condition is not due, as was thought at one 
time, to the loss of some antiseptic property contained in the bile. 
It is probably due to the fact that the normal pancreatic 
digestion of protein is in some way interfered with by the excess of 
fat which in the absence of bile escapes absorption. This interfer- 
ence is possibly of the nature of a mechanical envelopment of 
protein-particles by fat. At any rate in jaundice with loose stools 
fat should be discarded from the diet. 

I think that in most cases of diarrhoea (except perhaps those 
of purely nervous origin) dietetic treatment involves (1) a recog- 
nition of the cause, (2) a choice between a milk-carbo-hydrate and 
a protein diet. This choice must be made on the lines indicated 
above. The decomposition of protein is best met by a milk diet 
or a milk-carbo-hydrate diet in which milk is the chief article. 
On the other hand, irritative and inflammatory conditions of the 
small intestine require a reduction of carbo-hydrates and their 
replacement by protein and fat. But it must be confessed that 
in many cases the guides are uncertain and the best treatment 
must come from experience. Particularly is this the case in the 
various ulcerative conditions of the bowel. 

A pure milk diet is sometimes of use, but there is no reason to 
believe that it has any influence upon intestinal bacteria, except 
in so far as the bacterial fermentation of the contained lactose 
may tend to maintain the acidity of the small intestine. I think 
its merit lies in the small residue which enters the colon, and it is 
in diseases of the colon that it finds its chief use. Koumiss and 
kephir may be similarly used. 

35 



546 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Finally, in all forms of diarrhoea it is well to avoid ail articles 
containing cellulose, vegetables, fruit, coarse bread-stuffs and 
grains, sugar, and meat-extracts. 

Though we may draw up a list of the conditions under which 
diarrhoea occurs, we have no working classification. Certain 
forms of diarrhoea, however, stand out as having some constant 
characters. 

A. CATARRHAL ENTERITIS 

For the causes of this condition and for the prophylactic 
treatment based on a knowledge of these causes, reference may 
be made to catarrhal gastritis. The gastric and the intestinal 
disease arise in much the same way and they are often combined. 
But as might be expected from its position at the upper end of 
the alimentary canal, the stomach usually suffers first, and in 
greater degree. Toxic substances, however, in decomposing 
food may produce their greatest effect in the small intestine, the 
stomach escaping or being but slightly affected. Catarrhal 
enteritis may certainly arise under some unintelligible weather 
conditions, and little epidemics thus occur, presumably of 
bacterial origin. 

Acute catarrhal enteritis is easily recognized. Its sudden 
beginning, often following a recognizable cause, its violence and 
the rapid recovery are characteristic features. Repeated attacks 
may occur, and some patients show a special liability. A chronic 
catarrhal enteritis is by no means common. The term was for- 
merly applied to nearly every form of chronic intestinal disorder, 
but increasing knowledge has narrowed it down to a compara- 
tively infrequent occurrence. 

In the acute condition, if the stomach is simultaneously af- 
fected, abstinence from food should be practised as in acute gas- 
tritis. When diarrhoea is the prominent symptom from the first, 
food and drink may be given, but should be such as to leave little 
residue. Albumin-water and whey, with cold tea or barley-water 
to relieve thirst, are most suitable in the first stage. To these, 
brandy or sherry can be added if necessary. Raw meat-juice may 
also be needed in some cases. 

As regards the next step, in slight cases the tendency to> 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 547 

recovery after complete evacuation of the bowel is so strong that 
we may proceed rapidly by the addition of milk diluted with 
lime-water, and carbo-hydrates such as Benger's food, arrowroot, 
toast and rusks. Later eggs, pounded fish and sweetbread can 
be given with further varieties of starch, so that a plain full diet 
is often reached in a few days. The subsequent diet should be 
regulated with the idea of avoiding a recurrence. 

But some cases are more prolonged and greater care is neces- 
sary. Though we speak of catarrhal enteritis as a clinical entity, 
it is probable that bacteriological varieties are included under this 
head. An important difference is to be noted in the character 
of the stools. They may be almost of rice-water appearance 
and nearly odourless, or they may be exceedingly offensive and 
suggest putrefaction of protein-material. In the former case 
it may be well to withhold milk and to allow very little carbo- 
hydrate until the trouble is abating. The diet then will consist 
of albumin-water, whey, raw meat-juice, panopepton (which 
may be made into a jelly) barley-water, tea, arrowroot made with 
water and boiled flour-gruel, in all of which alcohol can be given, 
if required. 

Various irregularities of the bowels are grouped together under 
the term " chronic catarrhal enteritis " on the authority of Noth- 
nagel. There may be difference of opinion as to their nature and 
there may be a strong suspicion of a nervous element in some of 
them, but they are recognized conditions. Briefly, there are 
included here, (1) cases in which constipation regularly alternates 
with diarrhoea, the diarrhcaic stools being thin or soft, mixed with 
mucus and attended with pain, (2) cases in which there is a daily 
evacuation of unformed and pultaceous faeces, and (3) a continu- 
ing diarrhoea attributed by Nothnagel to an irritating excess of 
acidity in the small intestine, which occasions increased peri- 
stalsis, so that the contents of the small intestine are hurried 
to the anus, as is shown by the presence of unaltered bile-pigment 
in the stools. 

In all such cases an attempt must be made to ascertain the 
actual defect, bacterial or otherwise, on which the diarrhoea 
depends. I doubt if the origin and nature of this group are suffi- 
ciently constant to warrant any dogmatic statement as to an 



548 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

appropriate diet. The history must be carefully examined. 
In chronic cases something can be learnt from the experience 
of the patient. He has often found out for himself the relative 
merits of a milk-carbo-hydrate and a protein diet. In every case 
the articles, which have been already mentioned as being harmful 
in diarrhoea, should be excluded. Certainly in some cases of 
continuing diarrhoea improvement will set in on such a nearly 
pure protein diet as the following : 

8 a.m Cocoa made with water, one or two eggs. 

10 a.m Bouillon with an egg. 

Noon Chicken or fish, piece of toast, custard. 

Claret glass of Burgundy. 
4 p.m Panopepton, one egg, piece of toast. 

7 p.m Sweetbread, chicken, or fish, piece of toast. 

Claret glass of Burgundy. 
10 p.m Raw meat sandwiches or panopepton. 

The diet recommended by Wegele may be quoted : 

Morning .... Cocoa, 200 grms. 

One egg. 

Forenoon . . . Kefir (4 days old), 240 grms. 
Noon .... Soup, 250 grms. 

One egg. 

Roast chicken, 150 grms. 

Mashed potato, 250 grms. 

2 p.m Cocoa, 250 grms. 

6 p.m Kefir, 250 grms. 

8 p.m Soup, 200 grms., one egg. 

Sweetbread, 100 grms. 

10 p.m Kefir, 250 grms. 

During the day . Zwieback or toast, 75 grms. 

Butter, 20 grms. 

Whortleberry wine, 250 grms. 

B. NERVOUS DIARRHOEA 

This condition seldom needs any elaborate dietetic treatment, 
but it may be mentioned here as contrasting with the chronic 
inflammatory state already described with which confusion is 
possible. It is by no means uncommon. Its oddness should 
lead to its recognition. Though we can only guess at the actual 
mechanism by which in this condition an evacuation of the bowel 
is so mysteriously evoked, no one can doubt that it is of nervous 
origin, and that the intestine, apart from its intrinsic nervous 
mechanism, is perfectly healthy. The motor element predomi- 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 549 

nates, but in some cases it seems certain that there occurs also 
at times a sudden influx of fluid into the bowel, either serous 
fluid or succus entericus. Many forms are met with. In some 
people, whose bowels act regularly, a hurried uncontrollable 
stool will occur under shock, emotion, fright, excitement, or even 
the ordeal of speaking in public. Such a stool, moreover, may 
be profuse and liquid. In other cases the bowels habitually 
act two or three times in the day at irregular intervals, and such 
patients complain of the violent (though painless) peristalsis 
and the noisy gurgling that attend such evacuations. The 
seriousness of this state lies in the fact that any unwonted hurry, 
annoyance, or excitement means a call to stool. Even the know- 
ledge that no lavatory is at hand may be sufficient to produce 
distress. The opium or morphine habit is often the result. 
Frequent as the stools are in such cases, they are curiously bulky. 
All the instances that I have seen were in strong men who be- 
trayed no other neurotic tendency, and in some of these the 
trouble began in boyhood. There are some people in whom 
certain articles of food will quickly excite purging. Verification is 
easy and dispels the doubt that this story at first inspires. Finally 
lientery is a genuine ailment. It appears as if the entrance of 
food into the stomach excites a general movement throughout the 
whole intestine, and sometimes every large meal is immediately 
followed by an action of the bowels. This condition is not as a 
rule continuous, but it occurs in bouts which yield to treatment. 
As regards the dietetic treatment of these various forms of ner- 
vous diarrhoea, it may be said that in one form the patient is the 
best judge, and that in the others nothing can be done except 
the establishment of a healthy diet, regular hours, and an increase 
of confidence. 

C. COLITIS 

(a) Primary. The colon no doubt is often affected as well as 
the small intestine in the catarrhal conditions already described. 
But in some cases the physical signs and the appearance of blood 
and mucus in the stools indicate affection of the colon alone. 
Numerous varieties are described, but they cannot be classified. 
Nothing is known as to its causation, but it can hardly be doubted 



550 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

that it is of bacterial or parasitic origin. It is possible that some 
instances of it own the same cause as ulcerative colitis, and that 
they may be regarded as slight attacks of that disease, differing 
from it only in degree, in the slightness or perhaps even the absence 
of ulceration. Occasionally a previous history of such attacks 
ending in recovery is obtained from patients suffering from the 
fully developed ulcerative disease, and I think that the unusually 
long story of some cases of ulcerative colitis is thus explained. 
The occurrence of such slight attacks strengthens the general 
view of the identity of ulcerative colitis with bacillary dysentery, 
in which similar grades of severity are observed. 

(6) Secondary. Colitis is readily set up by errors of diet in 
those who have previously suffered from dysentery. It occurs 
under many conditions of severe illness, such as septicaemia, 
toxaemia of any kind, renal disease and pneumonia. 

In all cases, primary and secondary, milk alone is permissible, 
either diluted (4 or 6 to 1 of lime-water, soda-water or barley- 
water) or as blancmange made with isinglass. It is starvation 
diet, but 70 oz. (1,400 calories) may be given and occasionally even 
more. Any departure from a milk diet should be postponed as 
long as possible. The final additions to the diet should be a 
small allowance of carbo-hydrate (especially Benger's food) the 
yolk of eggs, and plasmon. A return to meat, meat-extracts and 
vegetables must be made with the greatest caution. 

D. INTESTINAL ULCERATION 

Three of the various forms of intestinal ulceration need to be 
considered in relation to diet. As regards ulcerative colitis 
nothing need be added to the recommendations made in the 
preceding section. As far as possible milk alone should be given. 
The same recommendation applies to those cases of carcinoma 
of the colon, of which ulceration, rather than stenosis, is the chief 
feature with diarrhoea and bleeding. As regards tuberculous 
ulceration, it is held by some, I believe with truth, that if profuse 
diarrhoea is the chief symptom, we may feel sure that the colon 
is at any rate as much affected as the small intestine. In such 
cases I think a milk-carbo-hydrate diet affords the best chance of 
relief. Of carbo-hydrate foods rice, tapioca, and arrowroot are 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 551 

to be preferred. But it is possible that, when the small intestine 
is chiefly diseased, the acid fermentation resulting from such a 
diet may have an irritating effect. Though milk need not be 
entirely withheld, it may be well to try the effect of replacing 
the carbo-hydrate element by protein food. 



CONSTIPATION 

Constipation is due to many causes, which are separate or 
combined, and every case requires examination before dietetic 
treatment can be considered. It is very commonly present in 
association with gastric disease of all kinds, often owing to the 
diet which is necessary in such disease, sometimes perhaps owing 
to an atonic intestinal condition which is associated with a similar 
state of the stomach. Generally speaking it is more common 
with hyperacid than anacid conditions. It may depend on de- 
fects of any of the intestinal secretions. It occurs in all manner 
of conditions in which the general health and nutrition is im- 
paired, as anaemia, fever, neurasthenia and debility. Painful 
conditions of the anus produce it. In some cases one can hardly 
doubt from the history that it has been present from birth, and 
is the outcome of a congenital neuro-muscular defect in the 
colon. It is often aggravated by enteroptosis. Its association 
with mucous colic and enterospasm is referred to elsewhere. 
But constipation produced by these and such-like causes forms 
a very small part of the disease. As a rule it is the direct result 
of a defective diet, and contributory causes are to be found in 
other avoidable adverse conditions, such as a sedentary unhealthy 
life and matutinal hurry. 

The main error is one of diet. The condition of the nervous 
mechanism on which defaecation depends is a matter of the 
greatest importance. In some cases we must conclude that it 
has been sluggish from birth. More commonly it shows signs 
of failure in early adult life. Sometimes it seems to become 
defective only in old age. We have no certain means of raising 
its excitability and power, but much can be done by an appro- 
priate diet to provide an increase of stimulus to its action. 



552 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

For the due performance of the function certain things are 
necessary. We may presume that the actual cause of peristalsis 
is either, (1) direct excitation of movement by mechanical dis- 
tention of the bowel by solids, fluids or gas, or (2) a local reflex 
action (subject to central nervous control) set up by chemical 
stimulation ofthe sensory nerves in the mucosa. Probably 
both forms of stimulus are at work. For the former a certain 
bulk of residue after digestion is necessary, and this will obviously 
vary greatly on different diets. Of milk 2,438 grm. produced 
96 grm. of fseces with a dry residue of 24' 8 grm. ; of meat 1,435 
grm. produced 64 grm. with a dry residue of 17'2 grm. ; of black 
bread 1,360 grm. (roughly 46 oz.) produced 815 grm. with a 
dry residue of 115'8 grm. (Rubner). Rapid distension of the 
bowel excites strong peristalsis, and is often attended with pain. 
As regards chemical irritation, there is every reason to believe 
that the acids produced by bacterial fermentation of carbo- 
hydrates and cellulose are the important factors. Certainly, as 
is mentioned in connexion with diarrhoea, violent and painful 
peristalsis may be produced by excessive acidity. But pro- 
bably the products of the decomposition of protein by bacteria, 
which normally occurs in the colon, are also to be regarded as 
stimulants of peristalsis in that part of the bowel. And it is a 
noteworthy fact in this relation that, as Strasburger has shown } 
the average daily weight of dried bacteria in the stools is only 
5' 5 grm. in constipation, as compared with 8'0 grm. in health. 
Perhaps it may be concluded from this observation that protein- 
decomposition is actually less in constipation than in health. 
This is certainly in agreement with clinical experience. I think 
the evil effects of constipation, the toxaemia, anaemia and mal- 
nutrition which are often ascribed to it, are greatly exaggerated. 
There are no facts which will justify the use of the term " auto- 
intoxication " in this connexion. 

Though no statistics are available, it will be generally allowed 
that constipation is increasingly prevalent in the upper classes. 
It is probable that this tendency is mainly due to the steady in- 
tentional elimination from food-stuffs of all particles which are 
not nutritious. In this way the bulk of the residue is diminished. 
Further, it is possible that there has been an undue substitution 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 553 

of protein for carbo-hydrate material, which results in a decreased 
formation of organic acids and gas. 

That defective diet is an important factor in the production 
of common constipation is shown by the good result which some- 
times quickly follows the resumption of simple and less artificial 
food. But such an immediate result is seen only in slight cases 
of short duration. In the majority of patients who seek help 
the trouble is of long standing, aperients have been freely used, 
and the reflex is blunted or lost. In such cases no immediate 
benefit results from the establishment of a proper diet, and it 
is consequently often dropped as useless. It is wise, therefore, 
to be beforehand and to explain to the patient that the diet will 
at first produce no obvious effect, but that it must nevertheless 
be considered (with slight variations) as a permanent regime, 
while dependence is placed on massage, electricity and improve- 
ment of life-conditions to wean him from aperients. 

The alterations which are generally necessary in the diet are 
an increase of cellulose, a decrease of meat, an increase of fat, 
a sufficiency of water, and an avoidance of astringents. 

Consequently Graham or whole-meal bread should be sub- 
stituted for white bread. Porridge is useful, especially Scotch 
oatmeal and Quaker oats. Vegetables such as cabbage, sprouts, 
scarlet runners, tomatoes, haricots blancs, salsify, Spanish 
onion and asparagus should be freely used, though the two last 
'are unsuitable in some cases. Fruit should be taken at least 
three times a day, the most useful varieties being apples, baked 
or raw, pears, currants, raspberries, cranberries, prunes, dates 
and figs. Butter should be taken at all meals. An increase of 
fat in the dejecta is a material aid. Many people have a strong 
aversion to oil. If it can be taken, olive oil is certainly of use, 
even in such small quantity as is commonly employed with 
salads. But if there is no such aversion, it should be taken 
more freely either with salads or alone. I think that the patient 
is fortunate, though rare, who can take one or two tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil three times a day. The free use of water should be 
insisted on. It is thought by some that cold water is more effi- 
cient than hot. Tea should be avoided. There is no reason 
to forbid alcohol, but the choice should be limited to whisky 



554 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

diluted with soda-water, or Hock or Moselle wine, and even these 
latter may well be diluted with one-sixth of soda-water. Cider 
is often recommended, but it is not always welcome at meals. 
Light lager beer is a harmless drink. 

An outline of a wholesome diet is appended. But in the 
treatment of constipation it is necessary to suit the diet to the 
patient and to make allowance for idiosyncrasies which we can 
recognize without understanding. It is quite possible at first 
to overdo the alteration in the diet and to forget that a cure 
must be the work of time. Though many patients can take 
vegetables and fruit in abundance, others experience considerable 
discomfort from the intestinal flatulence engendered by .bac- 
terial action upon the cellulose. Though this is not an unmixed 
evil, it may necessitate some modification in the diet. Again, 
if obesity co-exists with constipation, as often happens, the 
carbo-hydrate allowance must be reduced, and protein, and if 
possible more fat must be added. Further, it is obvious that 
the dietetic treatment of constipation may be rendered difficult 
or impossible by the co-existence of some form of dyspepsia or 
actual gastric disease. 

DIET FOR CONSTIPATION. 

Half an hour before breakfast 10 fluid oz. of hot water with a small 
dose of Carlsbad salt (dissolved in it) insufficient to produce an obvious 
aperient effect : or the juice of an orange made up to 10 oz. with cold water. 
Breakfast . . . Coffee with milk and sugar, 10 oz. (or cocoa). 
Graham or whole-meal bread or toast, 3 oz. 
Porridge with milk or cream (2 oz. of Scotch 

oatmeal). 

One egg (or fish or fat bacon). 
Butter, 1 oz. 

Honey, oz. (or treacle or home-made marmalade). 
Two apples baked or raw (or bananas, pears, and 

other fruit in season). 
Lunch .... Bread or toast as above, 2 oz. (or whole-meal 

biscuits). 

Fish, 2 oz. (or chicken or meat). 
French beans, 4 oz. (or Spanish onion, celery, 

cabbage, Brussels sprouts). 
Salads with oil, 2 oz. (lettuce, potato, tomato, 

beetroot). 

Stewed fruit with cream, 2 oz. (prunes, figs, apple- 
charlotte or puree). 
Butter, $ oz. 
Lager beer, 10 oz. (or cider, Hock, Moselle, Bern- 

castler). 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 555 

5 p.m Coffee, milk, and sugar, 8 oz. 

Bread, toast or whole-meal biscuits as above, 2 oz. 

Butter, J oz. 
Dinner .... Clear soup, 6 oz. 

Otherwise as lunch. 
Bed time . . . Water plain or aerated, 10 oz. 

Whole-meal biscuit. 

A diet recommended by Wegele is as follows : 

Morning .... Milk and coffee, 200 grms. 

Butter, 30 grms. 

Honey, 30 grms. 

Forenoon . . . Buttermilk, 300 grms. 
Noon Bouillon, 200 grms. 

Mutton, 200 grms. 

Cabbage, 300 grms. 

Plums, 200 grms. 

White wine or cider, 300 grms. 
Afternoon . . . Buttermilk, 300 grms. 
Evening . . . Meat, 150 grms. 

Butter, 30 grms. 

Stewed apples, 300 grms. 

Graham bread, 250 grms. 
After evening meal Lager beer, 750 grms. 



ENTEROSPASM 

Common constipation, due to sluggishness of the intestinal 
movement and of the rectal reflex, is painless. There may be 
some slight sensation of discomfort, but there is no pain. Con- 
stipation produces its undoubted effect on the consciousness by 
the feeling that a necessary function is in abeyance or is im- 
perfectly performed. When pain or aching is experienced, I 
think it is probable that a spastic condition of the colon is 
present. Such pain is often associated with mucous colic, and 
enterospasm is, in fact, the chief cause of the pain in that con- 
dition. But enterospasm, a pure motor disturbance, may occur 
without the conjoined secretory perversion, which is character- 
istic of mucous colic, and from its long duration and its profound 
effect on the mental state it is a matter of some importance. 
The pain or ache may be felt at any part in the course of the 
colon, but it is most common in the right or left iliac fossa, and 
in the former position it may arouse a suspicion of disease of 
the appendix. 



556 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

To the patient enterospasm is constipation, and constipation 
is his complaint. When spasm is present, it is even more neces- 
sary than in common constipation to be chary in the use of 
purgatives. Without entering into details as to the best line 
of treatment, it may be said that dependence must be placed 
on general measures, such as diet, massage and regulation of 
the life and habits, and that little good (and sometimes even 
harm) will result from any attempt at energetic treatment ap- 
plied to the interior of the bowel. 

As in the case of mucous colic, a rather coarse cellulose diet 
should be aimed at, but it must be carefully adapted to the 
patient. Occasionally the diets that are suggested elsewhere 
for constipation and the less severe forms of mucous colic can 
be borne, and will prove of service. They should be given a 
full trial with the intelligent co-operation of the patient. But 
in consequence of flatulence and discomfort the amount of cellu- 
lose must often be diminished, and recourse should be had to 
the second diet recommended for mucous colic. Butter and 
oil are extremely useful, and every effort should be made to 
overcome the distaste for olive oil which is so commonly ex- 
perienced. 



MUCOUS COLIC 

(Syn. Mucous colitis, Muco-membranous colitis) 

The diet in this condition is an important part of the treat- 
ment. From the evidence I think we must regard the con- 
ditions as a perversion of secretion, a secretion-neurosis. If any 
actual change in the colon-wall occurs, it is of secondary origin. 
But, as is seen from the synonyms above mentioned, the alter- 
native view of an inflammatory origin was held at one time, and 
perhaps it is still in existence. From the dietetic point of view 
this difference of opinion is of some importance. On the in- 
flammatory hypothesis one could hardly recommend the coarse 
diet which experience shows is often of service. 

The belief in the neurotic explanation is founded on the 
peculiar temperament which (like that associated with asthma) 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 557 

is characteristic of the patient, on the known fact that an attack 
of mucous colic may be precipitated by shock or emotional dis- 
turbance, on the negative findings in the few cases in which an 
opportunity for post-mortem examination has arisen, and on 
the fact that in no definite inflammation of the colon is there 
any such abundant appearance of mucus as is commonly seen 
in even slight cases of this disease. The inflammatory explana- 
tion arose from the d priori idea that excess of mucus must mean 
catarrhal inflammation. 

Mucus is the natural lubriant of the colon, and its secretion 
in due amount is necessary for the passage and expulsion of 
faeces. I think a diminution or absence of mucus is a small 
contributory factor in some cases of constipation. Mucus is 
often seen in small thin pellicles upon hard scybala, and in such 
cases its excessive secretion may be taken as a natural purposeful 
process, and it is not disease. Excessive mucus-secretion be- 
comes a disease when it is purposeless and out of proportion 
to any lubricating effect required. In many cases painful entero- 
spasm is associated with this secretory perversion. 

Without attempting to describe the whole condition, it may 
be said in brief that two classes of cases can be recognized. The 
distinction is useful in determining the line of treatment. These 
two classes, however, are not separate. They represent the 
two extremes of one scale. There are intermediate grades, 
and in regulating the diet the position of individual patients 
must be appreciated. In nearly all cases constipation is a 
prominent feature. 

In the first class are cases which may be considered as a 
pure secretion-neurosis. With obstinate constipation there is 
the passage from time to time of considerable quantities of 
mucus, generally as small sheets, pellets or masses, seldom as 
tubular casts. There is discomfort or aching in some part of 
the course of the colon, generally on the left side, seldom amount- 
ing to actual pain, which if it is long continued obtrudes itself 
more and more upon the consciousness, and may induce hypo- 
chondriasis. Such a condition is often of long duration ; it 
may be continuous for months at a time, and sometimes, with 
intervals of peace, it is spread over several years. In this case 



558 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

constipation is the main trouble, and it is aggravated by most 
aperients. 

In the second class are cases to which the term mucous colic 
is more correctly applied. With the secretory perversion there 
is associated motor and sensory disturbance. There is added 
evidence of violent spasm of colon, probably combined with 
inhibition in other sections of the bowel. The case presents a 
history of attacks of pain, generally on the left side, always 
severe, sometimes so severe that colotomy has been performed. 
With each attack is the production and passage of large quan- 
tities of mucinoid material, often in tubular casts, sometimes 
in rods, which on transverse section and microscopical examina- 
tion show evidence of having been subjected to compression. 
The stools at this point may be exceedingly frequent. Some 
oozing of blood may occur as the casts are detached. True 
intestinal sand (mostly calcium carbonate and phosphate) is 
occasionally found in the stools. After long treatment by a 
coarse cellulose diet this appearance of sand may be imitated 
by vegetable residue. Such attacks last for a few days, and 
occur at varying intervals. During the intervals there may be 
fair health, but constipation is generally a source of trouble. 

Two opposed lines of dietetic treatment are recommended 
by different schools in this condition, viz. : a coarse cellulose 
diet (von Noorden), on the one hand, and a diet leaving a scanty 
residue on the other. This apparent divergence of practice 
seems to be explained by the differences which have been men- 
tioned in the form of the malady. At one end of the scale we 
have cases of constipation and mucus-passing, in which the 
constipation is the most important matter. At the other end 
are cases which, though they are in other respects identical 
with the first group, present pain as the prominent feature, 
such pain, moreover, as would legitimately need morphia for its 
control in any other than this neurotic class of patient. I think 
that both plans, the coarse diet and the bland diet, have their 
uses, and that each case must be treated according to its pre- 
vailing character. 

If the case approximates to simple constipation with mere 
excess of mucus and little or no evidence of spasm, a diet such 



as is recommended in constipation may be found equally suitable 
here. And the same diet may sometimes be used during the 
quiescent intervals of fair health in those patients who suffer 
from paroxysms of pain and mucus-passing, if these intervals 
are of sufficient duration. In all cases an attempt should be 
made to diminish the use of meat and to substitute a larger 
allowance of fat, and it is important to ensure that an abundance 
of fruit is taken. 

I doubt if many cases occur in which it is wise to employ 
von Noorden's diet in its full severity. It consists of " half a 
pound of Graham bread, all manner of leguminous vegetables, 
including the husks and all vegetables containing much cellulose, 
fruits, especially those which have thick skins and seeds, such as 
currants, gooseberries and grapes, with large quantities of fat, 
butter and bacon." With such a diet he reports a permanent 
cure in 50 per cent and incomplete success in 28 per cent. 

The following is an outline of a modified cellulose diet : 

MODIFIED CELLULOSE DIET IN Mucous COLIC. 
Half an hour before breakfast, 8 oz. of hot water. 
Breakfast . . . Milk, 8 oz. (or cocoa made with milk. 

Graham or whole-meal bread or toast, 3 oz. 
Butter, 1 oz. 
Honey, J oz. 
One egg (or fat bacon). 

A baked apple (or fruit in season, pears, currants, 
gooseberries, blackberries, raspberries, grapes). 
Lunch .... Scrambled eggs (or savoury omelette). 
Bread or toast as above, 2 oz. 
Butter ; J oz. 
French beans, 4 oz. (or artichokes, beet-root, 

parsnips, turnips, cabbage). 
Water plain or aerated, 8 oz. 

5 p.m Freshly made tea with half milk, 8 oz. 

Bread or toast, 2 oz. 
Butter, i oz. 

Dinner .... Milk-soup, flavoured with celery or turnip, 6 oz. 
Fish (sole, plaice or whiting), 3 oz. 
Vegetables as at lunch. 
Apple-fritters or puree with cream (or stewed 

apples, prunes, figs). 
Bread or toast, 2 oz. 
Butter, $ oz. 

Water as at lunch (or whisky diluted 6-1). 
Bed time . . . Water plain or aerated, 8 oz. 
Toast or whole-meal biscuit. 



560 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

In the more severe type of case in which pain is the chief 
feature, occurring either continuously or in frequent attacks, 

I think that the diet must be modified so as to lessen the amount 
of residue that shall enter the colon. In such cases a very coarse 
cellulose diet will sometimes even precipitate an attack, or 
at any rate is apt to increase the discomfort. Milk should 
be used in some quantity. The following scheme may be of 
use : 

DIET IN MORE SEVERE TYPE OF Mtrcous COLIC. 
Half an hour before breakfast, 8 oz. of hot water. 

Breakfast . . . Milk (perhaps slightly diluted), 8 oz. 
White bread or toast, 3 oz. 
Butter, 1 oz. 
Honey, \ oz. 
Baked apple with cream. 

II a.m Milk hot or cold, 8 oz. 

Lunch .... Milk soup flavoured with vegetables, 8 oz. 

Milk-pudding, especially rice, tapioca or macaroni 
(or custard), 2 oz. 

Bread or toast, 2 oz. 

Butter, f oz. 

Water plain or aerated, 6 oz. 
5 p.m Freshly made tea with half milk (or cocoa), 8 oz. 

Bread or toast, 1 oz. 

Butter, \ oz. 
Dinner .... Lentil-soup (or milk-soup), 6 oz. 

Fish, 3 oz. 

Potato-puree (or potato-salad with oil), 2 oz. 

Spinach or cauliflower, 2 oz. 

Milk pudding with cream (or blancmange with 
fruit-juice), 2 oz. - 

Bread or toast, 1 oz. 

Butter, J oz. 

Water plain or aerated, 6 oz. 
Bed time . . . Milk, 6 oz. 

Rusk. 

Finally, there are cases of still greater severity. Paroxysms 
of pain and mucus-passing are long and frequent. The outlook 
is sometimes so hopeless that a right-side colotomy has been 
performed. Periods will then occur in which the diet must be 
still more simple, and the residue entering the colon must be 
still further reduced, although constipation is thereby increased. 
Milk diluted with lime-water or as blancmange, or flavoured 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 561 

with coffee should be the main article of diet. It may be strength- 
ened with plasmon. Eggs lightly-boiled or as custard may be 
taken in some cases, with carbo-hydrate food, in the form of 
toast, rusks, arrowroot, rice or tapioca. 

Though the principles involved in the preparation of the 
diet in cases of this disease may be theoretically correct, the 
practice is beset with difficulty. Modifications must often be 
made to suit individual patients. The difficulties are often 
greatest in those who are least ill. As in the case of common 
constipation, the expectation entertained by the patient as to 
immediate benefit from the diet is usually placed too high. This 
should be explained at the outset. Some patients, for whom 
the full cellulose diet would seem entirely suitable, are unable 
to continue it owing to the flatulence produced. Other points 
must be considered and allowed for, or in some cases disregarded. 
The general state of nutrition must be considered. These 
patients are generally ill-nourished, but continued loss of weight 
may require at first a simple diet of milk, carbo-hydrates and 
fat (with massage), to which articles containing much cellulose 
may be subsequently added by degrees. In some cases there 
is associated with the colon-condition a gastric neurosis, of such 
a character that genuine pain in the stomach is produced by 
all but the simplest and most digestible articles of food. Con- 
siderable inanition and feebleness of body and mind may follow. 
A gain of weight is a hopeful sign. Moreover, the patient who 
suffers from this colon-neurosis in its slighter grades is the very 
type of person who quickly declares that such and such articles 
of diet cannot be taken but always disagree. While a real idiosyn- 
crasy as regards food-stuffs does certainly exist, in most cases 
these likes and dislikes are due to preconceived and baseless 
ideas. They are the more troublesome, inasmuch as the 
patient's wish to get well is often curiously ill-developed, and they 
must then be ignored. Finally, an insuperable difficulty may 
be met with in the association of such a degree of gastroptosis 
as will forbid any attempt at a curative diet. 



36 



562 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



APPENDICITIS 

In cases which are seen and recognized from the first, food 
should be given sparingly. The ideal state, in which a per- 
forative lesion of the appendix may be best sustained, requires 
an empty, motionless stomach and a stationary intestine. The 
dissemination of bacteria throughout the abdominal cavity is 
greatly influenced by the degree of peristaltic activity. Starva- 
tion is the lesser of two evils. In every case, however slight 
the early symptoms may be, the treatment should be conducted 
on the hypothesis that perforation or gangrene has certainly 
occurred. Such fluid, however, may be given as will serve to 
maintain the secretion of saliva. A complaint of thirst should 
not lead to extravagance, and it may be met if necessary by 
small injections (6 oz.) of saline solution by rectum. Water 
hot or cold (the former if there is much vomiting), in 1 oz. doses 
every hour is ample at this stage, or a similar amount of barley- 
water or of milk diluted with one-half of soda-water. If the 
patient is fortunate enough to come under treatment at the 
onset of symptoms and the appendix is at once excised, the 
subsequent feeding will be conducted as after any other abdominal 
operation. 

If the first 48 hours have elapsed without operation and 
without signs of general peritoneal infection, milk can be given 
in greater quantity, perhaps 4 oz. diluted (4-1) with soda-water 
every 2 hours for 9 doses in the day. And there should be but 
little extension of this diet in the next few days, during which 
observation is directed to the appearance of signs of localized 
suppuration or of a late general infection of the peritoneum. 
When this period of danger is past, the diet can be rapidly in- 
creased by the addition of more milk in less dilution, of carbo- 
hydrates, beef-tea and clear soup, and later of eggs, custard and 
fish. 

After the subsidence of an attack, if for any reason excision 
of the appendix is refused, a request is often made for a diet 
which shall prevent subsequent trouble. The prevalence of 
appendicitis in all its grades has greatly increased in the last 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 563 

twenty years. Severe perforative and gangrenous lesions of 
the appendix have shown a greater increase of frequency than 
the milder types, so that notwithstanding better and quicker 
surgery, the percentage mortality is higher or shows no fall. 
The cause of this increase and change of type is unknown, but 
it is not more mysterious than the rise of influenza in 1888 and 
its subsequent fluctuations and decline. There is no reason to 
suppose that these changes have any dependence on alterations 
in the national diet, and they are not confined to this country. 
I believe that, if a patient declines to have a diseased appendix 
removed, his best chance for the future lies in the prevention 
of constipation and the avoidance of all causes of catarrhal 
enteritis. Some such healthy diet as is suggested in the treat- 
ment of constipation should serve him well. Considering the 
possibility of checking the activity of putrefactive organisms in 
the caecum by means of the acidity of the contents of the small 
intestine, carbo-hydrates and vegetables should be taken freely, 
while meat is diminished. 



INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 

In acute forms of obstruction all food should be withheld 
until the surgical treatment is completed. The mouth may 
be washed out with water acidified with lemon- juice, but little 
or nothing should be swallowed. The entrance of fluid into the 
stomach will nearly always provoke vomiting, so that nothing 
is gained. If it passes on into the bowel it will only serve to 
increase the distention. 

In chronic cases, however, some food may often be given 
with advantage, and it should be such as will be digested and 
absorbed as quickly as possible. The cause of the obstruction 
in such cases is generally carcinoma of the colon, and both 
gastric and intestinal digestion are therefore impaired. Small 
quantities at short intervals of peptonized milk, somatose, 
panopepton, peptonised beef-jelly and alcohol are the most 
useful articles. 



564 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



HAEMORRHOIDS 

It must be allowed that there is little or no opportunity 
for the prevention of haemorrhoids by dietetic treatment. It 
is doubtful whether any errors or peculiarities of diet have any 
relation to their occurrence ; in fact their causation is curiously 
obscure, and the old theories of a hsemorrhoidal diathesis, of 
plethora, and of hepatic congestion may be discarded. 

We have these anatomical facts, that the veins which undergo 
this dilatation are those veins which in all positions of the body, 
sitting, standing, or lying, are always in a dependent state, that 
the outgoing veins from the hsemorrhoidal plexus have no valves, 
and that the tissue in which they lie is subjected daily to ex- 
pulsive pressure. Though these phlebectasies arise in veins 
which communicate both with the portal and with the general 
venous systems, it is clear that they are not the result of a rise 
in pressure in either of these systems. As regards the portal 
system, it is the general experience that haemorrhoids are by 
no means common with cirrhosis of the liver, and as regards 
the general venous system it is equally certain that they do not 
occur in cases of backward pressure resulting from failure of 
the right side of the heart. It is possible that in some cases 
habitual excess of food and abuse of alcohol may be contributing 
factors, but it must be allowed that haemorrhoids are common 
enough in spare energetic men leading a clean and active life. 
Haemorrhoidal formation is in fact mainly a local condition 
due to local causes. A sedentary life, especially if this is com- 
bined with the use of soft cushions and chairs, seems without 
doubt to have some part in the causation. The connexion 
with pregnancy is undoubted. Constipation often co-exists with 
haemorrhoids, and it was formerly thought to be an important 
cause, but even here the connexion is neither close nor constant, 
and in many cases it is found that the haemorrhoids are the 
cause rather than the effect of the constipation. 

Though haemorrhoids do not seem to be due to any gross error 
of diet, it is necessary to inquire into the habits of a patient 
in whom a haemorrhoidal tendency exists, and to ensure the 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES 565 

establishment of a spare and temperate diet, perhaps with 
such alterations as may tend to relieve constipation. In many 
cases, however, there is little or no room for improvement in 
these respects. 

When haemorrhoids are already formed and have begun 
to give rise to discomfort from time to time, there is greater 
opportunity for dietetic treatment. Especially is this the 
case when inflammation has set in. The correct line of treat- 
ment is shown by the aggravation of the trouble which inevitably 
results from a continuance of full meals with alcohol, and such 
a diet should be adopted as will provoke but little gastro-intestinal 
hypersemia. Meals should be small and simple, and five 
small meals in the day are better than three large ones. Meat 
should be diminished in amount, and in an acute stage may 
well be discarded altogether. All spices and condiments should 
be forbidden. No alcohol should be allowed, and except in 
small quantities the patient is better without tea or coffee. 
It is recommended by some that the amount of fluid taken 
should be diminished, but it is doubtful whether any advantage 
is so gained. The diet, therefore, should consist largely of milk 
slightly diluted or as blancmange or in weak tea, with butter, 
eggs, carbo-hydrates as toast, milk puddings, potato and honey, 
stewed fruit and green vegetables such as spinach and cauliflower. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LIVER AND 

PANCREAS 



CHAPTER XVIII 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LIVER AND 
PANCREAS 

BY W. HALE WHITE, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

JAUNDICE 

IT might naturally be thought that the exclusion of bile from 
the intestines would seriously modify the processes of digestion, 
and therefore it will be well to give a summary of the effects 
upon the alimentary tract of the exclusion of bile from it. 

According to A. Schmidt when the bile cannot reach the 
intestines the amount of gastric juice is increased, and hence 
there is considerable hyperacidity. It is not known whether 
there is any change in the pancreatic secretion or the succus 
entericus. The view is commonly held that jaundice causes 
constipation, but clinical observations made with especial care 
teach the reverse and show that the motions may be copious 
and loose. This certainly is my own experience, and it is what 
would be expected, considering the presence of fat which would 
be absorbed were it not for the absence of bile. F. Muller from 
clinical observations, which it may be mentioned agree with 
those reached by experiment upon animals, concludes that 
the absence of bile from the intestines does not interfere with 
the assimilation of carbo-hydrate, protein, or inorganic matter, 
but the absorption of fat is greatly impaired. The stools are 
consequently fatty. Their amount, provided that the diet is 
unaltered, is three or four times the normal. The proportion 
of water is not altered. The specific gravity falls below 1,000, 
the fatty material floats on water, the reaction becomes strongly 
acid from the presence of free fatty acids, the needle-shaped 
crystals of which may be seen under the microscope and cause 

M 



570 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the greyish-white fatty stool to scintillate. By far the 
greater part of these crystals are the calcium salts of palmitic 
and stearic acids. The proportion of fatty acids or soaps to 
neutral fat is the same as in health namely 3-1. We learn, 
therefore, that one function of bile is to render fatty acids and 
soaps capable of absorption, and that therefore when it is 
absent they are not absorbed. 

Bile itself has no antiseptic properties, for it does not hinder 
the growth of micro-organisms, indeed, as is well known, it 
often becomes infected in the gall-bladder, and there is no evi- 
dence that the absence of bile from the faeces leads to decom- 
position of them ; indeed, one observer finds a remarkable 
diminution of bacteria in the faeces, and if the absence of bile 
led to an abnormal decomposition of faeces we should expect 
jaundice to be followed by enteritis, but this is not the case. 
The peculiar smell of the faeces when no bile is present is 
probably due to fatty acids. The wasting, often extreme, which 
is seen in those who have been jaundiced for some time, even 
when the cause of the jaundice is not malignant disease, is due 
chiefly to the failure to absorb fat. Lastly, it should be added 
that there is some evidence that bile circulating in the blood 
increases the protein decomposition in the body. 

Clinical experience teaches us that persons who have jaun- 
dice have a great repugnance to fats, and that is what would 
be expected, seeing the large amount of unused fat which 
is present in the stools. Hence, whatever be the cause of the 
jaundice, the patient should take no fat. It might be thought 
that it would be a good thing in such cases to inject olive oil 
under the skin. I have injected three drachms, night and morning, 
of sterilized olive oil under the skin of a patient who had an 
intestinal fistula high up in the jejunum, so that much of his food 
taken by the mouth passed out unutilized, and in whom it was 
impossible, owing to a kink, to inject food into the lower piece of 
ileum. All the oil was absorbed, and the patient, by dint of feed- 
ing this way, by the mouth, and by the rectum, gained weight 
and strength until he reached such a condition that it was possible 
by resection to restore the continuity of the gut. He made a 
complete recovery. The oil was injected under the skin of one 



DIET IN DISEASES OF LIVER AND PANCREAS 571 

thigh each morning and under the skin of the other each evening. 
It would be worth while to try in a case of long lasting jaundice 
whether fat could be introduced this way, but it must be remem- 
bered that only 300 calories of food a day can be thus given, 
for a very bulky injection is too painful. 

The wasting seen in those who are jaundiced, even when 
the jaundice is not due to malignant disease, is often in excess 
of that which can be attributed to the absence of fat from the 
food. There are several reasons for this. The bile in the blood 
leads to dyspepsia, often the cause of the jaundice gives rise to 
dyspepsia, and perhaps the bile in the blood leads to an exces- 
sive protein decomposition, but this is not certain. 

It is clear, therefore, that the patient should take plenty of 
carbo-hydrates and proteins, as much indeed as his limited powers 
of digestion will allow, and his feeding should be little and often, 
especially as we have seen that he suffers from an excessive 
secretion of gastric juice. Many vegetables are either difficult 
of digestion or contain so much water that their nutritive value 
is low, but lentil flour, which contains 22 per cent of protein 
and 65 per cent of carbo-hydrate and only 1*5 per cent of fat, 
is a very good food for those with jaundice. Potatoes properly 
cooked are desirable, for they contain about 20 per cent of car- 
bo-hydrate and very little fat. They should be steamed or 
cooked with their skins on, for if not they lose a considerable 
part of their proteins and salts. Bread, toast and biscuits are 
excellent, especially with jam and marmalade. If it does not 
cause indigestion maltine is valuable. Rice and tapioca, sago, 
arrowroot, grapes and bananas may all be given. Most infants* 
foods contain very little fat, and so they, too, may be used, and 
as whey and buttermilk are each of them milk from which 
the fat has been removed, they are useful to drink. The patient 
will get some protein in each of the articles of food already 
mentioned, but he may in addition take fish, meat, chicken and 
game. Inasmuch as the degree of indigestion varies much 
in different cases, it is difficult to lay down any exact rules, but 
the attempt must be made to keep up the patient's weight by 
foods judiciously chosen from among those just mentioned. 
Tea, coffee, and a moderate amount of alcohol may be taken. 



572 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



GALL-STONES 

If these are in the common or hepatic ducts they will almost 
certainly cause jaundice, and then the diet that has already 
been recommended for that condition will be appropriate. 

As far as we know no article of diet has any influence upon 
the formation of gall-stones or their absorption, but it stands 
to reason that if the patient is eating too rich food or too much 
food he should be advised to take plain ordinary food. If once 
a gall-stone, however minute, has formed, stagnation of bile 
will favour its increase in size. We know that the taking of 
food into the stomach leads to a flow of bile, and therefore patients 
liable to gall-stones should not go long without meals ; at least 
four meals a day should be taken and these at regular intervals. 
As few people take food during the night, the stagnation of the 
biliary flow is greatest at that time. On rising, therefore, break- 
fast should be taken early and should be abundant. It is said 
that, even apart from jaundice, patients suffering from gall-stones 
take fats with difficulty, therefore butter is sometimes forbidden ; 
but there is no direct evidence that this is necessary. 

There is no doubt that many persons who pass gall-stones, 
or who suffer from them, are benefited by going to Carlsbad, 
where the patients before breakfast drink warm water, the chief 
constituent of which is sodium sulphate. It is improbable 
that this acts on the bile, indeed how it does good is not known, 
but it is supposed to aid the expulsion of the stone by increasing 
the peristaltic movement of the bile-duct and duodenum. Be 
that as it may, the success attained at Carlsbad suggests that 
similar warm water may be taken at home. Carlsbad salts 
can be bought and dissolved in water. A close imitation of 
Carlsbad water is made by dissolving 22 grains of sodium sul- 
phate, 12 grains of sodium bicarbonate, and 10 grains of sodium 
chloride in a pint of water. Twelve fluid ounces of warm Carlsbad 
water should be drunk before breakfast, 3 oz. each quarter of 
an hour. Some patients can take double this quantity, and 
some apparently improve by drinking an equal amount of warm 
water. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF LIVER AND PANCREAS 573 

There is much divergence of opinion as to whether olive 
oil is useful in aiding the expulsion or solution of gall-stones. 
A gall-stone placed in olive oil at the temperature of the body 
slowly loses weight, because cholesterine, the chief constituent 
of gall-stones, is soluble in olive oil. It is the oleic acid, of 
which olive oil contains 72 per cent, that is the chief agent 
in effecting this solution, and it is suggested that when olive 
oil is taken by the mouth, the oleic acid is excreted by the 
liver or the mucous membrane of the biliary passages, and so 
slowly diminishes the size of the gall-stone. To some extent also 
the expulsion of the stone may be aided, because the intestinal 
peristalsis set up by the oil extends to the bile-ducts. This 
method of treatment is well worth a trial, for many patients 
say they derive considerable benefit from it. From 2-8 fluid 
oz. of the oil should be taken daily. The best way is to drink 
it after meals. Some persons do not mind doing this, but to 
many it is very disagreeable. The best method of flavouring the 
oil is to add a few grains of menthol and a little brandy to each 
8 oz. of oil. Some of it may be mashed up with potatoes, salad, 
or fish. Pure olive oil should be used, as it is often adulterated, 
especially with sesame oil and cotton-seed oil, for the pure oil 
is expensive. If olive oil causes so much nausea that it is im- 
possible to take it, seven grains of oleic acid best prescribed 
in capsules may be given two or three times a day. A few 
patients who suffer from gall-stones find they cannot take butter 
or the fat of meat. This is what we should expect if they are 
jaundiced, but if they are not it is difficult to understand why 
they should not take fats as easily as in health. It must be 
remembered that if medical treatment does not relieve the 
symptoms of gall-stones very considerable risk is run by leaving 
them. A study of a series of cases of gall-stones and a series 
of cases of malignant disease of the biliary passages leaves no 
doubt that gall-stones are a serious cause of malignant disease 
of the gall-bladder and biliary passages. Probably somewhere 
between 15 and 20 per cent of persons with gall-stones 
develop malignant disease of the gall-bladder or biliary passages 
as a result of the gall-stones. Further, about 4 per cent of all 
persons with gall-stones sooner or later suffer from infective 



574 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

cholangitis, empysema of the gall-bladder, sloughing of the 
gall-bladder, or abscesses in the liver. 



CONGESTION OF THE LIVER 

Congestion of the liver is a term applied by the public to ex- 
plain many symptoms, but we have no exact knowledge of any 
congestion of the liver which occurs in temperate climates except 
that which is associated with backward venous pressure from 
diseases of the heart or lungs, and the diet for these is given 
elsewhere. If, however, when a patient says he has congestion 
of the liver it appears from his history that he has been taking 
more food than he should, and especially too rich food, all the 
dietetic directions that are necessary are to give him plain simple 
food in small quantities at frequent intervals. He probably 
will not obey general directions, and hence it is a good thing 
to write down on paper precisely what he may have for each 
meal. Often these patients have many social enjoyments and 
dine too well when in this country, and therefore their diet cannot 
be effectually controlled unless they are sent to Carlsbad, Marien- 
bad, Vichy, Ems, or some such place where strict care is taken 
about their diet. In these cases the stomach and intestines 
are probably more at fault than the liver, and the reader is referred 
to the article on diseases of the stomach and intestines. Patients 
often say they are bilious because, as a result of gastro-intestinal 
disturbances, they are sick and the vomit contains bile. Also, 
many patients who say they are bilious really suffer from migraine, 
although they persist that they are bilious. 



TROPICAL LIVER 

If a European lives for many years in the tropics he is 
likely to suffer from an illness in which the liver becomes enlarged. 
Post-mortem examinations show that this is because it is con- 
gested. Those physicians whose residence in the East makes 
them familiar with this disease are of opinion that the most 



DIET IN DISEASES OF LIVER AND PANCREAS 575 

important causes of it are exposure to great heat and errors 
in diet. Certainly they are supported in this view by the fact 
that lately the trouble has become much less frequent. Of 
late years the European residents in India have been taking 
leave from time to time, during which they have returned to 
England and also as a class they have been more careful in 
their diet, especially they have drunk less whisky. Plain 
simple food with very little alcohol and very little of highly 
spiced articles of food such as curry is important for those living 
in India. Failure to remember this increases the liability to 
hepatic congestion. During an acute attack the patient should 
take only milk, and in a chronic case the only dietetic direc- 
tions that are necessary are that the food should be very plain 
and easy to digest. Unless the patient is careful about his food, 
improvement is impossible. Alcohol should not be taken. 

Cancer of the liver. No special diet is necessary for this 
condition, but the patient should take as abundantly as possible 
of such food as he will eat, for probably there is no disease which 
causes more rapid wasting, because there is the wasting due to 
cancer anywhere and frequently the primary seat of the cancer 
is in the stomach, and the indigestion produced by this con- 
tributes to the wasting. Further, if jaundice is present there is 
the wasting caused by the failure of the bile to reach the intes- 
tines and the consequent retardation of the absorption of fat ; 
then, too the bile circulating in the blood causes indigestion. 
It has been shown that cancer anywhere in the body and 
especially in the stomach leads to a diminution of the hydro- 
chloric acid in the gastric juice, and therefore it is desirable to 
prescribe this acid for these patients. 

Cirrhosis of the liver. Here also no special diet is necessary, 
but as cirrhosis of the liver is commonly accompanied by gas- 
tritis, the dietetic directions should be the same as for this con- 
dition and they are given elsewhere. It goes without saying 
that the patient should not take any alcohol. 

Suppuration in the liver. The diet should be the same as 
that given for any fever, whatever its cause. The other diseases 
of the liver do not require any special dietetic directions, and the 
only diseases of the pancreas that can be diagnosed are diabetes, 



576 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the diet for which is given elsewhere, and cancer of the pancreas. 
The diet for the latter is the same as that for cancer generally, 
quite apart from its locality, but with this exception, that those 
who have disease of the pancreas cannot digest and absorb 
fats properly, and therefore the food should not contain much 
of them. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 



37 



CHAPTER XIX 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 
BY G. A. SUTHERLAND, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

General considerations. Diet in diseases of the lungs is of 
importance, not so much from its curative effect as from the 
point of view of mitigating the symptoms and relieving the dis- 
comfort of the patient. In other words, much harm may be done 
through a wrong or an excessive diet. The guiding principle 
should be to regulate the quality and the quantity of the food 
in such a way as to avoid throwing an increased amount of work 
on the lungs, which are already overtaxed. For example, if 
through unsuitable feeding the intra-abdominal pressure is raised 
by flatulent distension, the free action of the lungs will be im- 
peded. Again, the excretory action of the lungs is interfered 
with in most pulmonary affections, and if by overfeeding and 
improper feeding the excretion of C0 2 is increased, the work of 
the lungs will be rendered still more difficult. The circulation 
of the blood through the lungs must also be considered. In 
pulmonary disease this is always interfered with, more or less 
obstruction being present. As healthy blood flows more easily 
than unhealthy, it is clear that if the blood is loaded with an ex- 
cessive amount of food products and if it is increased in amount, 
the circulation through the lungs will be still further impeded. 
These conditions of the blood must be avoided if possible, for they 
tend also to bring on the chief danger in all pulmonary affections, 
namely, cardiac debility and exhaustion. For these reasons the 
regulation of the feeding the amount of the food at each meal, 
the regularity of the meals, and the food materials is of great 
importance in all acute pulmonary affections. In chronic affec- 
tions, where a state of equilibrium has been established between 
the lungs and the other systems, the diet does not as a rule prove 



679 



580 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

such a disturbing factor. In many of the chronic conditions more 
direct benefit can be produced through the diet than in the acute 
diseases. 

The chief disease of the lungs, namely, pulmonary tubercu- 
losis, has been fully considered in another section (vide TUBERCU- 
LOSIS) and will not be referred to here. 



ASTHMA 

Asthma is a chronic disease with acute exacerbations. The 
nervous idiosyncrasy which is present in the subjects of this 
affection is usually accompanied by certain idiosyncrasies as 
regards diet. An attack may be precipitated by some article 
of food, not in itself indigestible to ordinary people, such as an 
egg, oatmeal, etc., or by some of those foods which more fre- 
quently induce gastric disturbance, such as pork or lobster. 
These peculiarities are common to asthmatic patients as a class, 
but the special peculiarity varies with the individual. In some 
of these cases the food may really act as a poison, and its toxic 
effects are manifested by an attack of asthma after absorption 
into the system. In other cases, however, the effect is produced 
so quickly, while the patient is still at the meal, that there ap- 
pears to be some stomach reflex set up by a certain article of diet, 
which precipitates an attack. One cannot say beforehand what 
special article of food will induce asthma in an ordinary case, 
but when the sufferer has discovered this for himself, it is clearly 
indicated that he should avoid this food in the future. 

Asthma is a disease which can be very greatly ameliorated 
but cannot be cured by diet. The asthmatic subject must be 
taught to regard his digestion, and the selection of suitable food, 
as of the first importance. The pleasures of the table are not for 
him. The treatment of a case will commence with the ordering 
of a diet of simple, wholesome, well-cooked food. Perhaps it is 
better to say what he should not take rather than what is to be 
allowed. In the forbidden list will be placed rich sauces, pastry, 
sweetened puddings, cooked butter, cheese, nuts, dried fruits, 
pickles, salmon, pork, sausages, and all re-cooked meats and 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 581 

made-up dishes, because of their liability to cause digestive 
disturbance. To this list will be added the stronger wines, such as 
port, sherry, and Burgundy, except in strictly limited amounts. 
There will also be included any article of food which tends to induce 
an attack, as observed by the patient himself. The aid of the 
sufferer must be obtained in watching the effect of this simple 
diet and noting any bad effects from special food materials. For 
it is only by close observation of each individual case that any 
correct conclusions can be drawn as to the effect of treatment. 
In some there will be found a difficulty with the digestion of pro- 
teins (meat more especially), in others with the carbo-hydrates 
(bread and puddings), and in others with the fats. This will lead 
in one case to the trial of a meat-free diet, and in another to a 
reduction in the carbo-hydrates or fats. The conclusion, however, 
must not be drawn that because one patient has definitely im- 
proved on a vegetarian diet that therein lies the chief hope for all 
sufferers from asthma. In the majority of cases the fault will be 
found to lie not in the food material, but in the idiosyncrasy of 
the patient. Gout is the underlying cause in many cases of 
asthma, and for these a special regimen may be required (vide 
GOUT). At the same time one must not too readily ascribe every 
case of asthma to this origin, even if some of the patient's rela- 
tives or ancestors have had gout, or if the patient has been 
informed that he is suffering from " suppressed gout." 

In addition to rendering the food suitable for the digestive 
powers of the patient one must also regulate the quantity at a 
meal, and the meal-times. A full meal will often precipitate an 
asthmatic attack, and if too much is taken at one time the breath- 
ing will almost invariably be affected. The patient must, there- 
fore, be warned to avoid eating much at a time. Three moderate 
meals a day can be taken in many cases without disturbance, 
but in other cases it is advisable to order four meals a day, so 
as to avoid overloading the stomach. A heavy meal in the even- 
ing is especially apt to induce an asthmatic attack during some 
period of the night. The evening meal should be light and should 
be taken at least three hours before going to bed. A little fish 
or chicken or a cutlet, with one vegetable, and toast, followed by 
biscuits and butter, will supply the needed nourishment in a 



582 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

digestible form. The midday meal should be the most substantial 
one. Tea, coffee, and cocoa may be allowed to form part of the 
dietary, provided that they are not found to increase the difficulty 
of breathing. 

In an acute attack the diet must be very limited and as digest- 
ible as possible. Fluids are preferably employed in the form of 
plain meat-soups, bread-and-milk, or milk and Benger's food. 
It is at this stage that a demand for stimulants is usually made 
by the patient, as he has experienced relief from whisky or brandy 
already supplied by the home authorities. There is no doubt 
that alcoholic drinks relieve an asthmatic attack, but this fact 
only makes their use the more dangerous. This is not the case 
of an attack of passing illness, but of a disease which tends to re- 
turn, often with increased frequency. If alcoholic stimulation 
is prescribed, the tendency will be for the patient to resort to it 
whenever his breathing becomes troublesome. In but too many 
cases one finds that large amounts of alcohol are consumed by the 
sufferer from asthma, and that in time he becomes a confirmed 
tippler, on the ground that he cannot get on without regular 
alcoholic stimulation. For these reasons, and considering the 
responsibility of the medical adviser, it is probably wiser not to 
order alcohol in any form for the relief of asthma. Other means, 
unattended by the same risks, can be employed, such as strong 
tea or coffee, and various drugs. In chronic cases it is not neces- 
sary to forbid the lighter alcoholic beverages, such as beer, Hock, 
or claret, provided the patient has been in the habit of taking 
them in moderation and without harm to his digestion. It is 
never wise to order them, or to approve of their being taken, to the 
extent of marked stimulation. 



BRONCHITIS 

I. Acute bronchitis. An attack of acute bronchitis is to be 
treated as regards the diet on the same lines as any other febrile 
illness. The foods ordered will be milk, soups, egg in milk or 
coffee, fluid puddings, and milk with small amounts of Benger's, 
Mellin's, or Savory and Moore's food. The food must be so 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 583 

regulated as to prevent fermentation and flatulent distension in 
the stomach and bowels. This condition will often follow from a 
mistaken idea of feeding up the patient. A low diet will be much 
more beneficial. Milk should be given with lime-water, or mixed 
with some solid, so as not to form large curds in the stomach. 
Whey is a form of milk which is specially indicated if there is a 
tendency to flatulence. Milk foods should be taken slowly, with a 
spoon, and in small quantities, 4-5 oz. at a time. Drinks of 
milk should not be given when the patient is thirsty. All soups 
should be weak, for if concentrated they tend to cause indigestion 
and overloading of the blood. Regular hours of feeding should 
be adhered to, every two or three hours according to the severity 
of the case and the quantity taken at a time. 

In the dry stage of pulmonary catarrh, when coughing is per- 
sistent and the expectoration thick and scanty, much relief is 
afforded by the drinking of hot fluids freely and apart from 
meal times. Hot lemonade (not too much sweetened), linseed tea, 
weak tea, or hot barley-water may be given freely. 

Lemonade may be prepared as follows. Peel a lemon very 
thin and put the rind into a jug ; add the juice of the lemon, 1 oz. 
(about five lumps) of sugar, anda pint of boiling water. Stand until 
it is cold and then strain. Instead of plain boiling water, barley- 
water (made thin) can be used, and if a little additional nourish- 
ment is wanted, the white of an egg well beaten up may be added, 

Linseed tea may be prepared as follows. Put 1 oz. of linseed 
oz. of liquorice and half a lemon into a jug, and pour over them 
a quart of boiling water. Let this infuse by the fire for two or 
three hours, and sweeten with castor sugar or sugar candy. Then 
stir, strain, and heat the infusion before serving. 

On the other hand, when the expectoration is free and loose the 
intake of fluid should be limited. Even the diet given above 
may be partly replaced by pounded chicken or fish, with bread 
crumb, and toast. Alcohol is better avoided during the acute 
stage of bronchitis, as it tends to increase the pulmonary catarrh, 
but it may be called for by the supervention of cardiac weakness. 

II. Chronic bronchitis. While the treatment of bronchitis 
during an acute attack will always proceed on the same lines, there 
are various modifications of the diet called for in the convalescent 



584 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

stage and in chronic cases owing to the different factors which 
may induce and maintain the disease. Treatment may have to 
be directed to some other underlying affection, such as cardiac 
disease, renal disease, or gout, and the diet will have to be ordered 
according to the indications thus afforded. In these secondary 
forms of bronchitis it will be found best to leave the pulmonary 
condition out of consideration and to treat the primary disease. 

A common type of chronic bronchitis is that induced and main- 
tained by an excessive amount of alcoholic stimulation. This 
is seen not only in drunkards, but in many individuals who are 
never intoxicated, but who habitually take more alcohol than is 
good for them. It is not necessarily a question of absolute 
excess, but of excess relative to the powers of the patient to deal 
with alcohol. The excretion of alcohol through the lungs leads 
to pulmonary catarrh, bronchial secretion and coughing. In 
some individuals this will be produced by a smaller, and in others 
by a larger amount of alcohol. Many people take alcoholic 
stimulants as they take bread, without noticing the amount taken. 
Careful inquiry should be made in a case of chronic bronchitis 
as to the amount of alcohol taken, and if this is beyond the phy- 
siological allowance, it must be reduced. In other cases it will 
be found that alcohol has been taken because the patient has 
chronic bronchitis, and because of the temporary relief afforded 
by the stimulation. This, however, is only adding fuel to the 
fire. Alcohol should never be regarded as part of the treatment 
of chronic bronchitis, and under medical supervision only some 
light beer at meals, or wine well diluted, should be allowed. 

Another type of chronic bronchitis frequently met with will 
have a history somewhat as follows. After passing the age of 
forty the patient noticed a tendency to put on flesh, and this had 
been progressive. With the increasing stoutness it was observed 
that an ordinary cold, which formerly did not pass beyond the 
naso-pharynx, had a tendency to affect the bronchial tubes. 
There was also an increasing frequency about these colds. Later, 
the ascent of a slight incline produced a shortness of breath to 
which the patient had been unaccustomed. Then, even on a 
level road, the rate of walking gradually became slower and slower, 
and the amount of daily exercise became considerably diminished. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 585 

There was also noticed a slight or marked wheeze about the chest, 
along with shortness of breath on any exertion, even when talk- 
ing, and at night a desire to have the chest propped up in order 
to secure easy and quiet breathing. Perhaps no more acute 
symptoms had developed, or it may be that a run to catch a 
train had produced an attack of acute and alarming dyspnoea. On 
examining a patient with such a history we shall often find signs 
of chronic bronchitis and emphysema. The heart may be diffi- 
cult to define owing to the thickness of the fat in the chest wall, 
but there are no evidences of cardiac degeneration or of valvular 
disease. The pulse is regular and good when the patient is at 
rest, and the arteries and kidneys appear to be healthy. 

The patient will admit that his weight has increased two, four, 
or more stones above his normal. There is a direct relation be- 
tween the increase of the fatty tissue and the bronchitis. With the 
development of fat, the peripheral resistance to the flow of blood 
has been much increased. The difficulty in the circulation is 
not in the arteries or in the arterioles but in the capillaries, which 
are increased generally in number, and are everywhere sur- 
rounded by soft resistant fat. The pressure exerted by the dense 
masses of fat on the capillaries hampers very much the flow of 
blood through these vessels. The result is that the venous pres- 
sure is lowered, the propulsive power of the heart being dissipated 
in driving the blood through the capillaries, and the blood returns 
to the right side of the heart with difficulty. The venous stasis 
thus induced affects also the pulmonary circulation, and a catarrhal 
condition of the lungs is readily set up. The heart is clogged with 
deposits of fat in its walls, and can but imperfectly carry on its 
work. The oxidation of the tissues is not complete, and the blood 
contains an excessive amount of carbonic acid, which throws 
extra work upon the lungs. These factors will all tend directly 
to the production of bronchitis. 

As regards the treatment of such cases we shall only consider 
the dietetic part. The first and essential thing is to remove the 
excess of adipose tissue, and to relieve the lungs of the work of 
carbo-hydrate excretion which has been beyond their powers. It 
may be taken for granted, without making any objectionable 
inquiries, that too much food is being taken, and that the excess 



586 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

has been in the form of carbo-hydrates and fats. They must be 
mercilessly cut down, and a diet consisting largely of protein 
material must be substituted. Three meals a day may be ordered, 
to be selected from the following : beef or mutton plainly cooked, 
chops, steak, fish, game, fowl, kidneys, tongue and veal. These 
are to form the main part of the dietary, and must be partaken of 
in moderation, so as to avoid the evils of an excessive amount 
of nitrogenous food. If signs of indigestion or gastric discomfort 
appear, the patient has probably been taking too much. In 
addition to the above, there may be allowed at each meal 
two small pieces of dry toast, or two breakfast biscuits, or two 
tablespoonfuls of dinner biscuits ; at one meal a tablespoonful 
of spinach or other green vegetable, and at another meal a raw 
apple. One cup of tea or coffee, or one claret glassful of water 
(with ^ oz. of brandy or whisky if desired) represents the amount 
of fluid allowed with meals. This may be called the rigid dietary, 
which is modified according to the progress of the patient. While 
the amount of fluid taken at meals is strictly limited, the patient 
may be encouraged to drink at other times from 1-2 pints or 
more daily. Plain water is as good as any other, but soda or 
potash water may be taken if preferred, and Contrexeville water 
will be found useful if the urine contains much uratic deposit. 
The excretory organs will carry off the superfluous tissues more 
rapidly if supplied with plenty of plain fluid. 

As a result of this treatment the patient should lose in weight 
from 2-3 Ib. per week. He will also in a short time report the 
disappearance of the chronic wheeze, and of the shortness of breath 
on exertion, and an increased power of walking up an incline. 
He or his friends may become anxious as to the effects of this 
diet on his gout, for many of these patients are gouty, or are 
believed to be so. As a matter of clinical experience it will be 
found that " gouty bronchitis " in a fat subject usually turns 
out to be fatty bronchitis in a gouty subject. The diet, however } 
is both digestible and nourishing, and will not affect a gouty 
tendency unless indulged in immoderately. More urgent will be 
the patient's cry for his wine, the champagne or port which 
had been ordered him as " strengthening." He may be assured 
that his diet is a sufficiently strengthening and stimulating one, 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 537 

and that alcohol will only increase the tendency to pulmonary 
catarrh. The severe protein regimen does not require to be 
continued for the rest of the patient's life. When he has been 
sufficiently reduced in bulk, as shown by the amelioration of the 
symptoms, a gradual return may be made to an ordinary diet. 
What must be insisted on is that his meals in future should be 
moderate in amount, and that the carbo-hydrate element especially 
should not be in excess. 

The addition of some animal fat to the diet in the form of 
milk, cream, butter, etc., is useful in all forms of chronic bron- 
chitis, provided that the digestion is not overtaxed. The patient 
who has bronchitis every winter will probably benefit more from 
cod-liver oil taken throughout the cold months than from any 
other therapeutic measure. 

In the chronic bronchitis of elderly people, which may be de- 
scribed as that due to cardiac weakness and respiratory difficulty, 
a more stimulating form of treatment may be called for. The 
employment of small and frequent meals of nourishing food will 
be found beneficial generally, and will not cause indigestion and 
flatulence. Alcohol may be used more freely in this form than 
we have felt justified in recommending at the earlier periods of 
life. The cardiac and respiratory centres will benefit from the 
stimulation which alcohol supplies. Two to three ounces of 
brandy, or a couple of glasses of port or Burgundy may be taken 
daily. 

In infancy bronchitis is for the most part associated with 
rickets, and is often of a most acute kind. In the acute stage the 
diet is that of a feverish attack, but afterwards much may be 
effected by diet both in the prevention of further acute attacks 
and in the cure of chronic bronchitis. Rickets is a disease which 
leads directly to a catarrhal condition of the bronchial tubes. 
The tendency is still further increased by the fact that the preced- 
ing diet has usually been one containing an excessive amount of 
carbo-hydrate material. An excessive carbo-hydrate diet throws 
extra work on the pulmonary powers of excretion, and produces 
an excessive amount of flabby adipose tissue which interfere- 
with the circulation through the lungs. These conditions must 
be altered by the adoption of a full anti-rachitic diet (see RICKETS). 



588 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The leading measures are to reduce the carbo-hydrate intake, and 
to increase the amount of animal fat and proteins. 



LOBAR PNEUMONIA 

It is now generally recognized that lobar pneumonia is a fever, 
with local manifestations in the lungs, and complicated in many 
cases with inflammation in other tissues. The diet during the 
attack, therefore, will be on the same line as that of fevers gener- 
ally. It is important to remember that the duration of the dis- 
ease is usually limited to from 7-10 days, and that cardiac failure 
is the most common cause of death in fatal cases. 

The food materials to be used are milk, or preferably whey, 
beef, mutton, or chicken-soup, and coffee or tea with an egg in it. 
As a rule thirst is marked, appetite is lost, and digestion is very 
much impaired owing to the high temperature and the toxaemia 
present. One and a half pints of whey or milk, one pint of 
soup and one egg daily will represent a sufficiently full dietary. 
The milk may be rendered more palatable and digestible by the 
addition of lime-water, barley-water, or Apollinaris water. It 
may also be thickened by the addition of Benger's food, or boiled 
bread or rusk, which renders it more digestible for many patients. 
Farinaceous preparations and sugar must be given in small amount 
owing to the tendency they have to induce indigestion and flatu- 
lence. Sugar of milk may be given (from -1 oz. daily), as it is 
nourishing, digestible, and not so apt to induce flatulence as other 
forms of sugar. The soups should not be concentrated, and 
should be made from fresh meat or fowl rather than any pre- 
served essence or jelly. The latter substances serve a function 
in forming a change for the patient, and being easily taken when 
the appetite flags, but they have not the nutritive value of the 
freshly made preparations, and many of them have no nutritive 
value at all. It is sometimes pathetic to see the implicit confi- 
dence of the patient's friends in some bottle or tin of meat 
essence, while they despise such foods as milk and eggs. 

The meals should be small in amount, and given frequently, 
every 2 or 3 hours during the day, and every 4 hours during the 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 589 

night. The danger is not from underfeeding but from overfeeding. 
Nature has taken away the appetite because the digestive organs 
are weakened. As the fever is a short one, no harm will follow 
from allowing only a small amount of food, and the patient will 
be much more comfortable. Instead of increasing the patient's 
natural powers of resistance to the disease, which, after all, will 
prove his chief safeguard, we are only weakening them by pouring 
into the system more food than he can properly assimilate. In 
the full-blooded healthy pneumonic subject one can do more good 
by what is practically a starvation diet than by giving the most 
nutritive foods in excess. In debilitated subjects and in elderly 
people the low state of vitality is an indication for the employ- 
ment of as much nourishing food as the patient can take. More 
concentrated soup, egg and milk, raw meat-juice, and even cream 
may be given, but the digestion must be carefully watched and 
must not be overtaxed. Above all things, flatulent distension 
of the stomach and bowels must be avoided, as the effect on the 
heart and lungs from upward pressure may prove most pre- 
judicial to the patient's chances of recovery. If gastric disturbance 
is present, the food should be peptonized and given in small 
amounts frequently, 2-3 oz. every hour during the day. 

Thirst may be relieved by drinking freely of water, lemonade, 
barley-water, etc. These may be given cold, but should not be iced 
unless they are taken in sips, so as to avoid chilling the stomach. 
The action of the skin will be aided by the plentiful use of fluids, 
hot or cold, and in addition the elimination of the poison in the 
blood will be largely helped by free diuresis. If water is not 
taken freely by the mouth, and if the secretions are scanty, hot 
saline injections by the rectum, or subcutaneously, should be 
employed. Elimination of the poison is most desirable, and this 
can best be effected by the passage of plenty of water through the 
system. A careful distinction should be made between the fluids 
which are given as food and those which are given as drinks. 
The times of feeding are to be rigidly adhered to, and the drinks 
given between meals should not have any milk or soup added, 
or anything which will call for digestion. 

During the first four or five days of the illness feeding on the 
above lines can usually be carried out satisfactorily, but in the pre- 



590 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

critical stage some extra precautions are called for. Exhaustion 
may now be showing itself, delirium or semi-consciousness may 
be present, the appetite may be lost entirely, and a condition of 
general toxaemia may be present. What the friends notice is the 
increasing weakness, and what they demand is more food for the 
patient. This natural desire on their part must be strongly com- 
bated. For the time being the patient's power of digestion has 
gone, and even if predigested food were given, his powers of assi- 
milation are in abeyance. The stimulation which he requires 
at this time cannot, therefore, be given by food, or only to a very 
slight extent. The period on which he is entering is not a long 
one, and a plentiful supply of water, with very small quantities 
of milk, beef-juice, or white of egg, is all that is really called for. 
During the pre-critical stage and at the crisis the question of food 
may be left out of consideration, and attention directed to the 
temporary stimulation of the patient by means of alcohol, etc. 
After the crisis has passed more food can be taken and should be 
given, but the food materials should be the same as during the 
fever for a few days at least. Returning appetite will soon indi- 
cate the return of digestive powers, and more solid food may be 
given. Within a week the patient is usually able to take fish, 
fowl, and meat. 



ALCOHOL IN THE TREATMENT OF PNEUMONIA 

Amidst the uncertainties that still surround the subject 
of pneumonia one fact seems to be generally accepted, namely, 
that the chief danger is death from cardiac failure. In con- 
sidering the question of the value of alcohol in this disease one 
is met at the outset by two difficulties, first, that there is no 
agreement as to the cause of the cardiac failure, which is the 
reason for giving alcohol, and secondly, that there is no agree- 
ment as to the action of alcohol on the circulatory and nervous 
systems. For instance, it has been held by different writers 
that the cardiac failure is due to some form of inflammation 
of the heart, to obstruction of the pulmonary circulation, to 
poisoning of the medullary centre, and to the general toxaemia. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 591 

Now if alcohol in any form and in any amount is a poison to 
the system, as some maintain, and if the patient is already 
suffering from a toxaemia which is depressing the heart, it is 
plain that the combination of two poisons will not prove bene- 
ficial, unless one is the direct antidote of the other. Such a 
view is not commonly held, but Dr. A. H. Smith, writing in the 
Twentieth Century Practice of Medicine on the excessive amount 
of alcohol which may be given in pneumonia without producing 
toxic effects says : "It seems scarcely possible that the benefit 
in these cases comes from the stimulant effect alone. It is 
more likely that the alcohol acts directly upon the microbe by 
mingling with the medium in which it grows, or that it has 
an antidotal effect upon the poison already in the circulation." 
This suggestion appears to be altogether too speculative to call 
for further notice. 

It may be urged that plenty of time and opportunity has 
now been afforded to settle the question as to the use of alcohol 
in pneumonia, but the question is not so simple as it appears. 

It is not a case of treating pneumonia, it is a case of treating 
a patient suffering from pneumonia, and patients vary in their 
susceptibility to alcohol just as they do to other drugs. One 
class of patient may respond well to alcohol as a stimulant, in 
another it may act as a depressant, in a third it may provoke 
gastro-intestinal disturbance, and so on. Each observer will 
tend to be influenced in his judgment by the results which occur 
most frequently under his own observation, and as the experiences 
of various observers may differ very considerably, their con- 
clusions may appear to be diametrically opposed. Again, the 
cardiac weakness may be due in one case to pre-existing heart 
disease, in another to pneumococcal carditis, in another to 
pulmonary obstruction, and so on. These are complications 
and not the ordinary conditions of pneumonia, which we are 
now discussing. 

Regarding the use of alcohol in the treatment of pneumonia 
we are not justified in laying down any dogmatic rules which 
will apply in all cases. We must, however, have certain views 
as to the nature of the cardiac failure, and as to the action of 
alcohol, if our treatment is to be anything but empirical. For 



592 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the sake of clearness two assumptions will be made in the fol- 
lowing remarks, first, that the commonest cause of cardiac failure 
in pneumonia is poisoning and paralysis of the medullary centre, 
and secondly, that alcohol is in the majority of cases a stimulant 
of that centre. These are assumptions, and space will not 
allow of my going fully into the reasons for adopting them, 
but the following points may be briefly alluded to. 

As regards the first it may be pointed out that pneumonia 
differs from most other acute fevers in the tendency to fatal 
cardiac failure within a brief period. Even in the case of rheu- 
matic fever, which is the disease in which the heart tends to be 
affected early and in an indisputable form, we find no such liability 
to rapid failure. As a rule no post-mortem changes are found 
in the heart in pneumonia other than those common to pyrexial 
and toxic conditions. A condition of pericarditis, endocarditis, 
or myocarditis, of pneumococcal origin, must be regarded as 
exceptional, and as previously stated rather as a complication. 
The pyrexia is not in itself a sufficient cause, for in other affections 
pyrexia of equal degree does not rapidly induce fatal cardiac 
failure. The embarrassment of the pulmonary circulation is 
not sufficient to produce the conditions seen in pneumonia. 
Dilatation of the right heart may occur, but it is by no means 
the characteristic feature of cardiac failure in this disease. There 
is no apparent obstruction in the circulation which would account 
for death in most cases. Both on clinical and post-mortem 
evidence we are unable to trace the fatal result to the heart 
or to the circulation. 

When we turn to the nervous system we find evidence early 
in the disease that the medullary centres are affected. The 
rapid breathing so characteristic of the disease is not a sign 
of pulmonary embarrassment, but of stimulation of the respira- 
tory centre. It is rapid, involuntary, unconscious, and diaphrag- 
matic. There are no signs of pulmonary distress. The cardiac 
action also would seem to indicate stimulation of the medullary 
centre. It is slow in proportion to the pyrexia and the rapidity 
of breathing, a condition which appears to be the result of the 
inhibitory action of the vagus under stimulation. These are 
the changes seen in the early days of the disease when stimulation 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 593 

of the cardio-respiratory centres in the medulla by toxins is 
present. The pulse may be full and bounding. The later 
stages of an attack show a different picture. The breathing 

O * V 

may still be rapid, but becomes laboured, conscious, voluntary, 
and costal, with all the accessory muscles of respiration brought 
into play. The check action is removed from the heart, and 
the pulse runs up to 120, 140, 160, or more, with marked weaken- 
ing of the cardiac action. These signs point to increased poisoning 
of the cardio-respiratory centres in the medulla, to gradual 
failure, and to complete paralysis in one or both when a fatal 
result follows. Why the cardiac failure should precede re- 
spiratory failure appears to be due to the fact that a patient 
possesses accessory muscles and methods of respiration, while 
he has no such means of aiding the circulation. 

The second assumption, that alcohol is in the majority of 
cases a stimulant to the medullary centres, is one based on 
the clinical experience of many observers. 

In any given case of pneumonia we must take into considera- 
tion (1) the proper time for giving alcohol, (2) the indications 
for its use, (3) the contra-indications, (4) the form and dosage, 
and (5) the conditions of the patient, apart from the pneumonia, 
which may affect the treatment. 

(1) The proper time for giving alcohol At the beginning 
of an ordinary attack of pneumonia in a previously healthy, 
or moderately healthy subject, there is no occasion to give 
alcohol. Some commence the routine treatment of pneumonia 
with 3 or 4 oz. of brandy a day, and assert that cardiac 
debility must be averted by early treatment with alcohol. A 
special characteristic of alcohol is that it acts quickly, so that 
one has not to wait a few days for its effects to be perceptible, 
as in the case of digitalis. In the early days of a pneumonic 
attack alcohol should be withheld, and the patient's strength 
should be sustained by suitable food. After the fourth day, 
or when the signs of the pre-critical stage present themselves, 
alcohol may with advantage be given and continued through 
the exhausting period of the crisis, until recuperation has set 
in. The period during which alcohol may be beneficially given 
will thus be limited in ordinary cases to from three to six days. 

38 



594 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Its action is strictly comparable to that of the other stimulants 
which may be used at the same time. After the crisis has passed, 
the amount of alcohol may, as a rule, be rapidly diminished. 

(2) The first indication for the use of alcohol is given by 
the pulse. When the pulse becomes small or irregular or com- 
pressible, and runs up to 110 or more per minute, alcohol is 
called for. The more suddenly this change takes place, the 
more urgent is the call for alcohol, as the whole system is in- 
juriously affected by a sudden impairment of the circulation. 
Confirmatory evidence will be found on examining the heart, 
when the first sound at the apex may be found to be weakened 
or blurred, and some dilatation of the left ventricle is present. 
Unless some evidence of cardiac weakness is recognized it is 
not advisable to give alcohol. Other associated disturbances 
of the system may indicate a case for stimulation, for instance 
sleeplessness. This can often be relieved by a full dose of alcohol. 
Again, the cardiac weakness may induce a disturbed state of 
the secretions, as shown by a dry mouth and tongue. Here 
also alcohol may afford relief. There may be low muttering 
delirium, with restlessness, owing to the weakened circulation 
through the brain, a condition which is often benefited by alcohol. 

Having decided to use alcohol for one or other of the above 
indications, one must give it a fair trial and watch the result 
closely. The stimulant is not to be continued on any general 
principles, but on the indications which the progress of the 
patient affords as to whether it is acting beneficially or not. 
If the pulse is slowed and the cardiac action improves, if the 
secretions become re-established, and if the delirium or rest- 
lessness or sleeplessness is removed, then the alcohol is probably 
doing good and is to be continued as required. If, on the other 
hand, one fails to perceive any improvement under the use of 
alcohol in sufficient amount, it is better to discontinue it and 
trust to other forms of stimulation. It should be kept in mind 
that many cases of pneumonia can be successfully treated with- 
out alcohol at all, and that the indications for its use should 
be as clear as in the case of any other powerful drug. 

(3) There are certain centra-indications which must be 
referred to. In the presence of a full and bounding pulse it 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 595 

is folly to give alcohol as a cardiac stimulant, or for any symptom 
such as restlessness or sleeplessness, or delirium, or loss of appetite. 
If there is reason to suppose that pneumococcal myocarditis 
or endocarditis or pericarditis is the cause of the cardiac weak- 
ness, alcohol will not be called for in large doses, and it is question- 
able whether under these conditions stimulation by alcohol will 
benefit the heart. My own experience has been that in acute 
inflammation of the heart the less alcohol one gives the better. 
If there is considerable blockage of the pulmonary circulation, 
and embarrassment of the right side of the heart, these conditions 
should be relieved by other measures, cupping, leeching, etc., 
before alcohol is used. The place of alcohol is to strengthen 
the action of the left ventricle after the state of the pulmonary 
circulation has been relieved. If there is much pulmonary 
oedema or bronchial catarrh, the free use of alcohol will rather 
tend to aggravate the condition unless it is traceable to weak 
action of the left ventricle. If the patient is prostrated by 
profound toxaemia, any attempt to revive him by large doses 
of alcohol will probably prove useless. His blood and tissues, 
already saturated with the poison of pneumonia, will neither 
be purified by means of alcohol, nor rendered more capable of 
throwing off the toxins. As already stated, it is the collapse 
produced by failure of the cardiac centre, and not that caused 
by general toxic infection, which will be benefited by alcohol. 
If the effect of alcohol is to excite and disturb the patient, to 
increase the distress, or to fail in producing an improvement 
in the cardiac embarrassment, it is advisable to reduce the 
amount or to discontinue it altogether. 

(4) The form in which the alcohol is supplied is important. 
Some have advised the use of the stronger wines, port and sherry, 
because of the special ethers they contain, and of the added 
nutritive effect as compared with a plain spirit such as brandy. 
The ethers can hardly be determined beforehand by the doctor, 
and the chief point to be considered is the stimulating effect of 
alcohol. In the case of wines the strength in alcohol varies so 
much that one cannot regulate accurately the amount of alcohol 
which is to be given. A sound brandy or whisky is to be pre- 
ferred as allowing of exact alcoholic dosage, and as supplying 



596 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the stimulant in a form which is suited to most stomachs. If 
the patient or his doctor has a preference for rum or gin, equally 
good results may be obtained from either of these. On the 
grounds of palatability and quickness of effect champagne has 
also distinct claims, and it may sometimes act better than 
brandy in disturbed states of the stomach. After the crisis 
has passed and the stage of convalescence has been entered 
on, port or sherry or Burgundy may be employed in place of 
the spirit. 

The question of dosage is one to be determined by the special 
requirements of the case. Speaking generally, one may say that 
a mild amount of stimulation will be secured by 3 oz. of brandy 
or whisky in the day, a moderate amount by 6 oz., and a full 
amount by 9 oz. If it be said that these would be large amounts 
for a person in perfect health it may be replied that the con- 
ditions in pneumonia are quite different. It is well known 
that many patients suffering from pneumonia can take large 
quantities of alcohol without the production of those symptoms 
which would certainly follow from the same amount taken in a 
condition of good health. The object of the stimulation is to 
raise the force of the circulation as nearly as possible to that 
existing in health, and the dosage is to be regulated on this 
principle. Again, it may be said that the effect of large doses 
of alcohol on the tissues generally has been found to be injurious. 
To this it may be replied that such an effect depends upon the 
length of time during which the absorption of alcohol has been 
going on. The question of alcohol in pneumonia differs from 
that in most other affections in that it is a self limited disease, 
and in that the period of stimulation may be put down as from 
three to six days. It is a case of treatment during a critical 
period, and we are justified in pushing our remedies in a way 
which would not be possible or advisable in a case of prolonged 
illness. From this point of view the above-mentioned amounts 
are not excessive, and if the stimulating effect is beneficial, no 
permanent harm can be done to the system by the alcohol. 
These amounts will not, in the vast majority of cases, require 
to be exceeded. At the same time, if the physician is convinced 
that the alcohol is benefiting the patient, and that more is 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 597 

called for, he should have the courage of his convictions and 
increase the quantity. 

It is advisable to give the brandy or whisky in doses of from 
2-4 drachms, at regular intervals, and diluted with at least 
twice the amount of water. The aim is to produce a steady 
and continuous stimulative effect. Larger doses tend to upset 
the digestion and to produce a temporary over-stimulation 
followed by a reaction. Sometimes, however, a condition such 
as sleeplessness or delirium may be best treated by one full dose- 
of from 1-2 oz. 

(5) Certain personal factors in the patient modify the treat- 
ment by alcohol. Age is one of these. In the majority of 
cases of lobar pneumonia in infancy and childhood alcohol is- 
not called for. In certain cases the threatening of cardiac failure, 
at or about the crisis, may be best met by alcohol. As a rule- 
from half to one ounce of brandy in the twenty-four hours will be 
sufficient. In elderly people the pneumonic poison tends to 
affect the cardiac action at an early stage so that alcohol is called 
for early. There is more general agreement about the benefit 
derived from alcohol in the pneumonia of advanced life than at 
any other age. While alcohol is called for early, it is seldom 
required in such full doses as at the more robust period of middle 
life. The reserve powers of the nervous centres and of the 
heart are weakened by age, so that they cannot respond to stimu- 
lation to the same extent as in earlier years, and the full amount 
of stimulation possible is produced by smaller doses. 

The chronic alcoholic patient is a bad subject for pneumonia, 
but he must be treated with alcohol freely. To discontinue the 
alcohol by which his nervous system has been sustained, and to 
allow the poison of pneumonia to take its place, is not a wise 
policy. He cannot be fed up during acute illness, and the omission 
of his accustomed stimulant will probably precipitate a fatal 
termination. It is not much use ordering 3 oz. of whisky in the 
twenty-four hours to a person who has been in the habit of taking 
a pint or more daily, so that the amount of stimulant which is 
required will depend largely on the quantity which the patient 
has been in the habit of taking. It is not necessarily as much, 
but it will probably be considerably in excess of that which 



598 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

would be considered sufficient for a previously abstemious 
subject. 



PLEURISY 

In an attack of acute pleurisy the ordinary diet for a febrile 
illness is to be employed. When effusion takes place, either 
as the result of an acute attack or in a chronic form, more special 
treatment as regards the diet has sometimes been carried out. 
Attempts have been made by means of a dry diet, i.e. with the 
fluid elements reduced to a minimum, to check further effusion, 
and to procure absorption of the fluid. As a rule this process 
is an extremely irksome one to the patient. The therapeutic 
results do not seem to justify this mode of treatment. In the 
case of pleurisy one is dealing with an active inflammatory 
process, and an excess of secretion goes on in spite of a limited 
fluid intake. In cases of chronic effusion, after the subsidence 
of active inflammation, the fluid can be removed much more 
quickly by other measures, and with much less discomfort to 
the patient than by deprivation of fluids and fluid food. On the 
other hand it is not advisable to encourage a large fluid intake 
on the part of the patient during the stage of effusion, but rather 
one will try to keep the amount of fluid given in strict modera- 
tion. Again, the employment of a salt-free diet, however useful 
it may be in certain cases of renal oedema, is not to be regarded 
as a remedial measure in pleural effusion. Diuretic drinks are, 
as a rule, of no effect. With reference to the diet, the only 
clear indications are to maintain the patient's strength by as 
full a diet as the state of the temperature and digestion will 
allow of. 

The other diseases of the lungs do not call for any detailed 
notice. Broncho-pneumonia or catarrhal pneumonia is to be 
treated as a fever of varying length and with the same pre- 
cautions as lobar pneumonia. That is to say, the diet must be 
regulated so far as possible with a view to leave the pulmonary 
action unimpeded. In the case of infants it may be regarded 
as a specific fever, or as a complication of specific infection, 
and the diet should be regulated accordingly (see Chapter X). 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 599 

Hay fever is an acute febrile disorder, which does not as a 
rule call for any special dietetic treatment, except in that form 
which is associated with asthma.. In the latter case the pre- 
cautions and limitations already described ought to be fully 
carried out (see ASTHMA). 

Emphysema is not very amenable to direct treatment by 
means of diet, but the comfort of the patient will be maintained 
by a regimen similar to that described in connexion with Chronic 
Bronchitis (q.v.). 



DIET IN DISEASES AND DISORDERS OF 
THE HEART 



CHAPTER XX 

DIET IN DISEASES AND DISORDERS OF THE 

HEART 

BY W. J. HADLEY, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

IT is well to remember that the dietetic treatment of heart troubles 
includes prevention as well as alleviation ; the treatment of 
functional disorders as well as those attended by actual disease 
of the organ. In many of the functional disorders, the considera- 
tion of the diet, and the treatment directed to the digestion, are 
all that is needed for the relief of the symptoms ; whilst, when 
the heart is actually diseased, the back-pressure congestion in 
the stomach, liver, and digestive organs generally, constantly 
makes digestive disturbance the first symptom for which the 
patient comes to seek relief. 



FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS 

Functional disorders present such symptoms as pain, cardiac 
distress and pseudo-angina, rapidity, palpitation and irregular 
or intermittent action of the heart. 

We will consider the treatment of such functional disorders 
under the following headings : 

1. Functional troubles due to dyspepsia and hepatic engorge- 
ment. 

2. Functional troubles due to errors in diet or abuse of 
food, drink or drugs. 

3. Functional troubles due to nervous disorders functional 
or organic. 

4. Functional disorders due to anaemia and debility. 

603 



604 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

5. Functional troubles due to febrile conditions and tox- 
aemia. 

N.B. It will be noticed in the above list how frequently the 
trouble is due to something that the patient is doing wrong. 
One cannot too strongly insist on the necessity for inquiring 
carefully into the life and doings of such patients. Otherwise 
the dyspepsia, or the heart trouble alike, will be treated unsuc- 
cessfully, the actual cause not having been discovered and 
removed. 

1. Dyspepsia and hepatic engorgement. It is well to recog- 
nize the fact that more patients come complaining of heart trou- 
ble when the digestion is at fault than do those whose hearts are 
actually diseased. The dietetic treatment of dyspepsia will be 
considered under its proper head (to which the reader is referred) ; 
but it is necessary here to draw attention to the frequency of the 
complaints, as to the heart, occurring in dyspeptics, and also to 
emphasize the necessity in all such cases for particular care 
being paid to the healthy condition of the mouth and teeth and 
even more to the removal of worry, hurry or irregularity in 
taking of meals, work in too close proximity to meals and so forth. 
It is to be noted that it is chiefly those whose dyspepsia is caused 
or complicated by some of the above mentioned conditions that 
complain loudest of their hearts, and that the heart symptoms 
frequently become relieved by attention to such matters long 
before the dyspepsia is quite gone. 

2. Errors in diet and abuses of food, drink or drugs. 

(a) ERRORS IN DIET are as frequent causes of heart symptoms 
as dyspepsia itself, and although such errors usually cause dys- 
pepsia this is by no means always the case, and heart troubles may 
be caused by such errors without there being any obvious dys- 
pepsia. It is only necessary to indicate the various ways in which 
patients do err in order to make the treatment obvious. What 
has been said above as to hurry, worry, irregularity, etc., should 
be repeated here, as they are, perhaps, the most common errors. 
We have also the taking of meals, or drinks, which are too large, 
too indigestible, too hot or too cold (iced) ; too much or too little 
fluid taken, or too great a frequency in meals. Of course, the 
majority of such errors cause cardiac symptoms by causing dys- 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 605 

pepsia, but not all. A stomach which is simply acutely or 
chronically over-distended will cause some or other of the cardiac 
symptoms mentioned above : and we have seen very serious 
symptoms occur as the result of swallowing very hot food, and 
another case of syncope from taking a big iced drink ; both 
occurring in people with perfectly healthy hearts and without a 
symptom of dyspepsia. In both these cases the effects were 
probably reflex, through the nervous system. 

The treatment consists wholly in removing the cause and in 
regulating the diet to suit the particular case. 

(6) ABUSE OF DRINKS AND DRUGS. We must here consider 
the treatment of abuse of tea, coffee, alcohol, tobacco, morphia 
and other drugs. 

Tea and coffee can conveniently be taken together. Xo- 
thing is commoner than to find some functional disorder 
resulting from abuse of one or both of these beverages, occur- 
ring either with or without dyspepsia. The symptoms are 
sometimes immediate or may be delayed until some hours after 
the ingestion. It is quite easy to forbid their use altogether, 
but such an order is frequently not obeyed, and although it may 
be necessary in some instances, it is well to try and find a middle 
course between abuse and abstinence. Tea, taken once a day, 
can sometimes be borne, when, used more frequently, it causes 
heart trouble. Similarly very weak tea, or China tea, can often 
be tolerated when stronger, or Indian, tea causes symptoms. 
Coffee usually causes less trouble than tea, but some people have 
a peculiar susceptibility to it. Much the same may be said with 
regard to its limited use as has been said of tea. In the case of 
both tea and coffee, they sometimes only cause cardiac trouble 
when taken alone, whilst they can be borne if taken with food. 
Wherever they have caused symptoms, they should be used, in 
future, more as flavourings than taken as beverages in the ordinary 
way. It is important to remember that tea frequently causes 
dyspepsia and heart symptoms if taken with a meat meal. 

Tobacco. Perhaps there is no more alarming condition 
with reference to the heart than acute or chronic nicotine poison- 
ing. It has long been recognized that the dose likely to produce 
harm differs in individuals : that some are very sensitive to even 



606 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

small doses, while others seem practically immune to even large 
doses of the poison. 

Some of these cases are purely functional, entirely due to the 
abuse of tobacco, whilst others are a combination of old morbus 
cordis and abuse of alcohol in addition to the nicotine poisoning ; 
for it is not uncommon to find the abuse of tobacco one of the chief 
hindrances to the establishment of proper compensation in cases 
of true heart disease. In such cases the heart will be found with 
irregular and feeble action, often dilated, whilst the patient will 
complain of many of the symptoms of heart failure, though there 
is rarely oedema unless the abuse is complicating true heart 
disease. 

Here again we have only to discontinue the use of tobacco 
to get rid of the symptoms altogether if they are entirely due 
to tobacco, and to get a marked improvement if the condition 
is one in which tobacco plays a part only. In most of the cases 
dyspepsia has also resulted from the abuse, and care will be needed 
in the management of the diet, with treatment, as well as abstin- 
ence from the tobacco. 

Alcohol. Abuse of alcohol is a most frequent cause of heart 
trouble, with or without its usual attendant, dyspepsia. Palpita- 
tion, faintness, pain over the precordium, shortness of breath are 
frequently complained of. Sometimes the patient describes 
sudden attacks of oppression and distress of breathing, waking 
him in the night, very much resembling cardiac asthma or even 
angina pectoris ; whilst in the morning he is sick and faint and 
the pulse is often small, weak and occasionally irregular and 
rapid. In cases of long standing abuse, myocardial degeneration 
results with dilatation and cardiac failure with all the signs and 
symptoms pertaining thereto. There are few cases which are 
so difficult and unsatisfactory to treat. In many of them the 
digestion is ruined, the liver diseased and the general health 
undermined. The question between total abstinence and modera- 
tion will have to be considered, but in the majority of such cases 
nothing short of total abstinence will be of any permanent good. 
It is not always possible to attain this at once, but it is the goal 
to be aimed at. There is" usually loss of appetite, occasionally 
sickness and a loathing of food, and one of the great difficulties 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 607 

is gradually to substitute food for the alcohol as it IB diminished. 

In the worst cases it is far the best course to put them to bed 
under skilled nursing, because, first, they are often so weak and 
feeble that they are unable to digest even small quantities of 
nourishment while up and about and, second, it is the only way of 
insuring that alcohol is diminished or abstained from as desired. 
In such cases it will frequently be found that milk, soups, broths 
or meat extracts are the only forms of nourishment that can be 
borne, and it may be necessary even to peptonize the milk for a 
time. 

The diminution or total withdrawal of the alcohol habitually 
taken often necessitates the use of some cardiac stimulant in the 
shape of strychnine or digitalis preferably the former or small, 
and ever diminishing, quantities of alcohol may have to be 
returned to for a time. As the power to take food returns these 
stimulants can be discontinued. In these cases sleep is all im- 
portant, because it soothes the mental excitement so common in 
such patients, but also because it gives the heart a much needed 
rest. It will be necessary, however, to use great care in the 
exhibition of hypnotics, especially morphia, because of the fre- 
quency of the presence of renal disease in such cases. It will 
generally be found that systematic and good feeding will insure 
the necessary rest, and it is here that the skilled nurse is so help- 
ful, always being able to do so much more than relations or 
untrained servants. Later, when the patient has sufficiently 
recovered, and from the first in those who have never been so ill, 
exercise and open air are important in order to increase the appe- 
tite and general vitality. Finally will come the question " What 
am I to drink ? " The abnormal craving for some " nip," or 
stimulant between meals has sometimes to be catered for, at any 
rate for some time, and if tea and coffee can be borne, they are 
often the best substitutes though, as we have seen, their immo- 
derate use may be attended by cardiac symptoms ; and although 
they constitute a lesser evil, their habitual and prolonged use is 
not to be advised. With meals, water, milk, barley-water, 
lemonade and ginger beer are the best, or a light claret, or lager 
beer, may be allowed in some cases. Highly spiced foods, 
strong sauces and an excess of meat will often be found useful 



608 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

stepping stones between alcoholic abuse and a more healthy 
appetite, and although their habitual use cannot be recom- 
mended, they may be found very useful for a time. 

Morphia, chloral and other hypnotics, antipyrin, etc. The 
abuse and in some cases even the use of these and other drugs 
may be attended by symptoms of cardiac failure. When 
the cardiac failure is acutely manifest, appropriate treat- 
ment for the poisonous effects of the drug (morphia, e.g.), 
with the exhibition of stimulants, will be necessary. This 
is not a question of dietetics ; but in mentioning the cardiac 
symptoms frequently presented by such patients, one must 
emphasize, from the point of view of treatment, the great im- 
portance of food. In most of these cases the taking of proper 
nourishment has been neglected, and frequently the digestion 
is wofully deranged by the abuse of the drug. They are often 
wasted and feeble, and the heart symptoms complained of are 
often caused as much by the dyspepsia and debility present, as 
by the drug taken. What has been said in speaking of alcoholic 
abuse may be repeated here. Such cases should be put to bed 
under skilled nursing, and while their particular drug is gradually 
diminished, food should be carefully and systematically increased. 
The importance of skilful feeding cannot be ranked too highly. 
3. Nervous disorders functional or organic. 
Under this heading we shall first consider the heart troubles 
of hysteria, neurasthenia, mental strain and worry, and then 
mention must be made of those occasionally attending true 
cerebro-spinal disease. 

HYSTERIA AND NEURASTHENIA, etc. The functional heart 
troubles occurring under these conditions are well known, and 
the complaints made by such patients as to their hearts often 
form a large part of their symptoms. Many of them are convinced 
that they have " heart disease," and most of the symptoms of 
organic disease and cardiac failure are faithfully presented. 
Thus, cardiac pain and oppression, palpitation and shortness of 
breath are usual complaints. In many there is undoubtedly 
an attendant cardiac debility, as witnessed by the almost con- 
stant great increase in rapidity, on even slight mental or physical 
exertion, which is so commonly a feature in neurasthenic subjects, 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 009 

but it is obvious that this debility is only part of a general, and 
not a special, cardiac debility. 

In no class of cases has treatment by rest and judiciously 
increased feeding shown such good results as in these hysterical 
and neurasthenic patients. In many of them, from nervous 
debility, unwise management of their lives, fear of getting fat, or 
fear of dyspepsia, food has been neglected or improperly assi- 
milated, and although many are not wasted, all their symptoms 
cry out for better nourishment. It would be out of place here 
to give the details of what is now known as the " Weir-Mitchell " 
treatment ; it will be discussed fully elsewhere. It will be suffi- 
cient to say that, under such treatment, the cardiac as well as the 
other symptoms of the patient gradually disappear. After con- 
valescence these cases must be advised to regulate their lives, and 
more especially with regard to food, for in this matter they are 
most likely to err ; a nourishing diet and regular life must be 
insisted upon. 

CEREBRO-SPIKAC, DISEASE. There are but few disordered 
cardiac states directly connected with organic disease of the brain 
and spine. The bradycardia of some meningeal cases, is an 
instance of the connexion, as is also derangement of the heart 
with some affections of the pneumogastric and sympathetic 
nerves, but there is nothing to be said as to the dietetic treatment 
in such cases. 

CARDIAC FAILURE is a prominent feature in some cases of injury 
to the skull, brain or spine. The only indication, in these cases, 
is the great care necessary in the use of alcohol, remembering 
that, although the heart may show the need for stimulation, such 
stimulation may do great harm to the cerebral lesion (e.g. haemor- 
rhage). 

In LOCOMOTOR ATAXY we have, occasionally, heart crises, 
but such conditions call for no special dietetic treatment. 

4. Anaemia and debility. The treatment of anaemia and 
debility will be described elsewhere. Many of these cases com- 
plain more of their heart symptoms than of anything else. In a 
number of them, all that has been said regarding cases of neuras- 
thenia might be repeated. In a great many the anaemia itself 
is the result of dyspepsia and improper feeding, and whether 

39 



610 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the full "Weir-Mitchell" treatment is thought advisable 
or not, all of them are improved by the careful regulation of 
their diet and an increased amount of nourishment. As a 
rule, milk forms the best addition to an ordinary dietary, be- 
cause of the ease with which it is generally taken and digested. 
In other cases it may be found that the patients are taking large 
quantities of starchy food and little or no protein, and it seems 
that to some individuals at any rate some form of meat food is 
essential for the formation of good blood. In other cases again 
the anaemia is largely, if not wholly, caused by constipation, and 
in such instances the regulation of the diet and the amount of 
fluid taken is a far better, and generally more permanently 
effectual, means of overcoming this trouble than habitual drug 
taking. 

5. Febrile states and toxaemia. Probably all febrile con- 
ditions are attended by a state of toxaemia, but there are other 
toxaemias which are afebrile. 

Amongst the febrile conditions we have all the infectious 
troubles including pneumonia, typhoid, etc. In a vast majority 
of these cases death is, more or less, directly due to cardiac failure. 
The old adage says, " Stuff a cold and starve a fever," but we 
find that in many of the cases now under consideration starving 
is a most unwise policy. Most of us have seen cases of pneu- 
monia, and other septicaemias which owe their recoveries entirely 
to their extraordinary powers of taking nourishment, whilst, on 
the other hand, cases are often met with in which we see the in- 
ability to take nourishment well inevitably followed by cardiac 
failure. The dietetic treatment of fevers, etc., will receive atten- 
tion elsewhere, and we need do no more here than emphasize 
the importance of the use of plenty of suitable nourishment, as 
a preventive of cardiac failure in such cases. The dry, unwhole- 
some state of the mouth and lips in febrile cases is often a cause of 
the anorexia, and careful attention to their toilet will frequently 
increase the amount of food taken. Another important point 
is the regulation of the diet so as to prevent what is so common 
in many cases, viz., abdominal distension. This condition is 
apt to occur in all febrile and toxaemic states ; it is necessary, 
therefore, to use great care to prevent the nourishment increasing 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 611 

this tendency, because the pressure caused by the consequent 
raising of the diaphragm is a potent element in bringing about 
cardiac failure. The diminution or total withdrawal of aerated 
waters may be all that is necessary in some, whilst the peptonizing 
of all the milk taken may have to be resorted to in other cases. 
The discontinuance of all medicines by the mouth is often of 
importance, so as to leave the stomach undisturbed by possibly 
irritating drugs. All necessary medication must be carried out 
subcutaneously or per rectum. Great care must be used in the 
supervision of the milk, its storage for instance, and to see that 
it is alkaline when given. The addition of lime-water, bicarbonate 
or citrate of soda, to the milk will often help in its digestion. 
Sometimes the substitution of junket, or curds and whey, or whey 
only, with or without the addition of a little cream, is found 
helpful : or it may be necessary to discontinue milk altogether 
giving weak meat, veal or chicken broths instead. It seems 
sometimes as though the copious use of fluid food is the direct 
cause of the abdominal distension; concentration of the milk 
by evaporation will, in some cases, be found effectual in removing 
this troublesome condition and so in relieving cardiac symptoms. 
The giving of solid food too soon, however, is another cause of 
distension, and its occurrence should warn us of the necessity 
for returning to fluid food for a time. 

In considering the afebrile toxaemias, mention must be made 
of the cardiac failure attending the last stages of such diseases as 
hepatic cirrhosis (cholsemia ?) Bright's disease (uraemia ?), diabetes 
(acetonaemia ?) and Addison's disease. One must refer the reader 
to the articles on these diseases for their treatment. The cardiac 
failure, in all of them, is more manifest towards the close of the 
case, when dietetic treatment can be of but little avail. 

Exophthalmic goitre. This seems the best place to consider 
the treatment of the heart trouble occurring with exophthalmic 
goitre. It is a noticeable feature in this disease that a hopeful 
issue may almost always be expected so long as the patients do 
not waste. The disease is characterized by periods of activity 
alternating with periods of quiescence, during which symptoms 
are more or less in abeyance and an ordinary active life can be 
led by the patient. During the quiescent stages, as a prevent- 



612 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

ive, but especially during the active stages, rest and generous 
feeding are important points in the treatment, indeed a modified 
" rest cure," with all its increased nourishment, is the best means 
at our disposal for treating the active stages and distressing 
cardiac symptoms of this disease. 



ORGANIC DISEASES 

In considering the treatment of organic diseases of the heart 
it will be well to divide them into acute and chronic. 

Acute heart disease. Acute endocarditis and pericarditis 
can conveniently be taken together. The indications for treat- 
ment are : (1) To feed without loading the excretory organs with 
work. (2) To give plenty of fluid in order to promote fluidity of 
blood and sweating. (3) To increase or alter the nourishment 
under certain circumstances, such as cardiac failure, etc. (4) 
To be careful in selecting the most appropriate nourishment during 
convalescence. 

1. In order to give the excretory organs, and the heart, as 
little work to do as possible, the diet should be fluid and consist 
chiefly of milk. Remembering that the function of the kidneys 
is impaired in these febrile, often rheumatic, conditions we should 
refrain from using strong meat essences. Moreover they un- 
doubtedly stimulate the heart, and, in the majority of cases, we 
want to rest it. On the other hand, there are certainly some 
cases where the patient is weakly, anaemic and delicate, or where 
milk causes vomiting or distension, in which we must have 
recourse to essences and meat broths rather than an entirely 
milk diet. 

2. We regard the free use of alkaline drinks as an important 
point in the treatment of acute endocarditis. They lessen the 
toxaemic state of the blood and probably diminish the tendency 
for thrombi to form on the valves, whilst, at the same time, they 
promote sweating. 

3. In some cases where the cardiac action is very weak, we 
must overlook the rheumatic element in the case and give a more 
liberal diet, consisting of beaten up eggs, meat juices and the 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 613 

lighter kinds of white fish. The greatest necessity for careful 
consideration of the diet occurs in those cases (mostly of peri- 
carditis) where great cardiac depression, vomiting or a collapsed 
state supervenes. Here we must stop the exhibition of all drugs 
by the mouth, reserving the stomach for nourishment only. 
Digitalis is especially harmful ; if necessary it (or strychnine) can 
be given hypodermically. The milk should be peptonized or 
well diluted with alkaline water, or citrate or bicarbonate of soda 
added in the proportion of 2 grains to the ounce. The feeds should 
be small and frequent, the actual amount and frequency regulated 
by the tolerance of the stomach. Strong meat juices and broths 
are often most useful to take the place of milk for a time. Stimu- 
lants may be necessary, brandy and champagne will generally 
be found most suitable. If there is absolute intolerance of the 
stomach for food, all feeding by the mouth must be discontinued 
for a time and recourse be had to nutrient enemata. This is 
most important, as vomiting throws a great strain upon the 
already embarrassed heart. 

4. During the convalescence of acute endo and pericarditis 
the food must be increased cautiously. Increase of fatty food 
will be the first addition, such as cream, butter and fat of bacon. 
At the same time one may give farinaceous and milky puddings 
and custards. Eggs, fish and chicken may soon be added, with 
a little potato, well cooked green vegetables, and stewed fruit. 
Whilst admitting that, in exceptional cases, where the patient is 
very anaemic and debilitated, we do well to allow red meat rather 
early in the convalescence, one feels that its stimulating effect 
upon the heart, and its possibly acid producing properties are 
not usually desirable and that, in most cases (especially those of 
rheumatism), it should be the last item restored to the ordinary 
diet. 

N.B. One must emphasize the great difference between the 
treatment of acute and chronic heart troubles. In the chronic 
form so much of the treatment turns upon the judicious use of 
cardiac stimulants, whilst in the acute form stimulants, whether 
as food or drugs, except in quite rare instances, are best avoided. 
It has been pointed out that the food in acute endo and pericar- 
ditis should be selected for its non-stimulating characters. Fur- 



614 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

ther with regard to the use of alcohol, it must be laid down that, 
though it has been mentioned above as occasionally necessary 
in cases where there is imminent danger of cardiac failure, as a 
rule it is not advisable to use it at all ; whilst the routine practice 
of giving it in all, or nearly all, cases of acute heart trouble is to 
be condemned as most harmful. 

Chronic disease morbus cordis. Dietetic treatment of 
chronic heart disease will be influenced by the following con- 
siderations : 

1. The cause, e.g. rheumatism, gout, Bright's disease, etc. 

2. The age of the patient. 

3. The nature of the particular lesion present. 

4. The condition of the heart as to : 
(a) Perfect compensation. 

(6) Disturbed compensation, 
(c) Extreme failure. 

1. THE CAUSE. It is unnecessary here to discuss the best 
dietary for cases of rheumatism, gout, Bright's disease and so 
forth. They will receive full attention elsewhere. But it is 
necessary to emphasize the point that, when heart trouble has 
been caused by one of these diseases, it becomes more than ever 
important in its treatment to insist upon the appropriate diet 
being adhered to. If we wish the heart condition to get better, 
or at any rate to get no worse, we must see that its cause is not 
allowed to be a progressive one ; and there can be no doubt that 
the course of such conditions as gout, rheumatism and Bright's 
disease can, amongst other things, be influenced profoundly by 
diet. 

The reader is referred to the articles on the various diseases 
indicated, and is reminded that although the condition of the 
patient, or his heart, may need some modification from time to 
time in the regime there laid down, the main rules are usually 
applicable. 

2. THE AGE OF THE PATIENT. In adult cases a limitation of 
food is often beneficial and sometimes essential. Limitation 
of food is not, as a rule, wise in the case of children. The growth 
and development of the body has to be maintained, and a fairly 
liberal dietary will be found the best for them. Children under 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 615 

ten years of age are notoriously bad subjects for heart disease ; 
and although everything would seem to be in their favour, it is 
frequently the case that complete compensation is never attained. 
The formation of hypertrophy is often well carried out in children, 
the coronary vessels are healthy, there is no general arterio- 
sclerosis, and yet we constantly see compensation only temporarily 
effected, soon to give way to dilatation and failure. The double 
call upon the vital powers for growth and development and at the 
same time for the establishment of a compensatory hypertrophy, 
and the extra work thrown upon the heart by the general develop- 
ment of the body prove too great a strain. It is a noticeable fact 
that this failure to create a permanent compensation is much more 
common among poor children than among those of the well-to-do, 
and although it may in part be accounted for by lack of care in 
other ways, insufficiency of proper nourishment is the main cause. 
What is true of acquired disease is even more so of congenital 
heart disease, and the prevalence shown for such cases to drift 
into acute or chronic tuberculosis makes a liberal supply of 
nourishment even more important. 

It is important, therefore, in the case of children, not to keep 
them too long on a low diet when recovering from acute endocar- 
ditis, or when compensating after a temporary breakdown. 
When the trouble is over they should be fed liberally during the 
time compensation is forming. It is often necessary, in the case 
of adults, especially in those of full habit, to keep them on a 
somewhat low diet, though, except in cases of fatty infiltration, 
plethoric states and gout, starvation methods may easily be pushed 
too far. In the case of old people, a fixed regime is often harmful. 
It must be remembered that few real heart cases live to over 
sixty years of age, and if they do, they are generally feeble and 
debilitated, and need a free and liberal diet with a certain amount 
of alcohol. The general question of the use of alcohol in heart 
cases will be dealt with more fully later. 

3. THE NATURE or THE LESION. Probably in most cases of 
chronic heart disease it is wise to limit the consumption of fluids ; 
but this is especially necessary where there is stenosis of a valve 
or extreme dilatation of one or more of the cavities. In such cases 
soups and broths should be avoided, the meals should be taken 



616 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

as dry as possible and a limited amount of fluid, as drink, taken 
with or preferably in between them. The same rule holds good 
where the arterial tension is excessive or where dropsy is present. 

In cases of fatty heart where there is infiltration rather than 
degeneration, and where the heart is more incommoded by the 
presence of the fat than actually diseased, a modification of the 
diet is generally necessary. Such patients are the victims of 
general adiposity. Fats and starches must be reduced to a 
minimum, and their diet should consist chiefly of fish, chicken, 
green vegetables and a limited amount of butcher's meat. It is 
generally advisable for such cases to take a rather increased amount 
of fluid in the form of water, and to avoid the use of alcohol. 
As a warning one must add that the depletion of the body fat 
must not be carried out too rapidly, and that as the fat on the 
body and round the heart is removed, it should be replaced as 
far as possible by muscle, and in order to attain this end massage, 
gymnastics and exercises are most helpful. Copious water drink- 
ing, a much restricted diet, various kinds of baths and a regular 
amount of exercise are remedies very easily enumerated, but 
nothing needs more careful thought and supervision than the 
decision as to how much each of these remedies should play a 
part in the treatment of any individual case. It is obvious 
that a patient cannot be drenched, starved and worked without 
very careful supervision, and much harm has been done by th e 
reckless use of these methods of treatment without skilled advice. 
Further, although some cases of true heart disease are benefited 
by a somewhat modified course of such remedies, such a form of 
treatment is much more applicable to obese patients who are 
suffering from functional heart trouble only than to the victims 
of real morbus cordis. 

For the sake of completeness the following dietary is given as 
suitable for a case of weak heart, especially when due to fatty 
overgrowth, and in patients whose heart trouble is due to over- 
eating, overdrinking and deficient exercise : 

Breakfast. About 6 oz. of weak tea or coffee, with a little milk, and 
3-4 oz. of bread. 

Midday Meal. 3-4 oz. of soup, 7-8 oz. of meat, bird or fish, salad 
or light green vegetable, 1 oz. of bread, toast, or milk pudding, 4-6 oz. 
of fruit. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 617 

Afternoon Meal. About 6 oz. of weak tea or coffee and 1-2 oz. of 
bread or stale sponge cake or rusk. 

Evening Meal. 1 or 2 soft-boiled eggs, 1-2 oz. of bread, cheese and 
salad and a little fruit. 

With this diet, it will be found that some cases do better when 
restricted in the amount of fluid taken to between 30 and 40 oz. 
altogether, whilst others do better when taking an increased 
amount of fluid (chiefly water), better taken between meals. 

As already stated exercise forms an important element in the 
treatment of these cases. 

4. THE CONDITION OF THE HEART. 

(a) Perfect compensation. Under these circumstances the 
patients are well, living an ordinary life, more or less, and in some 
of them no special care in diet seems necessary. It is always 
wise, of course, to avoid excess in either eating or drinking, and 
what has been said when speaking of the regulation of the diet 
according to the cause of the heart lesion is applicable to those 
whose hearts, although diseased, are causing no symptoms. In 
many compensated cases, however, probably in most, rather 
special care in matters of diet becomes necessary. Even where 
there are no symptoms, or when they are so slight as not to 
interfere seriously with the daily life, there is sufficient back- 
pressure to cause a chronic engorgement of the stomach, intestines 
and liver. Catarrh, arising from various causes, is very apt to 
occur under such conditions. It is, therefore, important to insist 
upon special attention being paid to the care of the teeth, pre- 
vention of oral sepsis, regularity and digestibility of food and to 
the avoidance of excess in eating or drinking, as well as the avoid- 
ance of mental or physical work in close connexion with a meal. 

(6) Disturbed compensation. It constantly happens that 
indigestion is one of the first signs to warn us that failure of com- 
pensation is imminent, or may first draw attention to the true 
state of the heart. All that has been said with regard to care in 
dietary becomes more important under these circumstances. 
In some cases there is intolerance of food, or such an amount of 
dyspepsia that the diet has to be chiefly fluid for a time. The 
continued use of irritating drugs, such as digitalis, may have made 
matters worse and it may be necessary to discontinue their 



618 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

administration by the mouth in order to get the stomach into a 
condition fit to digest food. As soon as possible solid, easily 
digestible food should be given in place of fluids, as better nourish- 
ment is needed, and it is often necessary to limit the amount of 
fluid taken. What has been said with regard to distension of 
the stomach and intestines with wind must be remembered here ; 
and if fluid food, especially milk, is found to be causing it, mea- 
sures must be taken to render it more easily assimilable by the 
addition of lime-water; bicarbonate or citrate of soda, peptonizing 
it, or it may be necessary to discontinue its use altogether for a 
time. However careful we may be with the diet, the symptoms 
will not be relieved unless, and until, the back pressure congestion 
is relieved by returning compensation aided by free purgation, 
so that the whole of the portal circulation may be eased by 
copious evacuations. 

(c) Extreme failure. There are no heart cases so difficult to 
feed as some of those in which there is complete failure of com- 
pensation, though fortunately this is not always so. The need 
for nourishment in order to promote returning strength is great ; 
but such is the state of the digestive tract that the greatest care 
must be used so as to prevent complete intolerance of food. The 
tongue is frequently thickly coated, reflecting the condition of the 
stomach, and in some cases there may be vomiting or even hsema- 
temesis. It is well not to pay too much attention to the state of 
the tongue, as it will often be found that patients are able to take 
and digest their feeds well, although the tongue is very coated. 
Attention has already been drawn to the wisdom of feeding acute 
cases in young subjects liberally and rather early in the convales- 
cence. Similarly in some instances of complete failure of com- 
pensation, where the state of the digestive tract would seem to 
contra indicate food, nevertheless it will be found that food is 
well borne and that improvement results from an increased 
amount of it. Where, however, there is definite intolerance of 
food, it is best, for the time, to stop all food and^drugs by the 
mouth and to resort to hypodermic medication and rectal feeding. 
Later predigested food (peptonized milk and beef-tea) may be 
tried, but the return to ordinary food must be attempted very 
gradually indeed. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 610 

Alcohol. It is in these cases of failing heart that we have the 
greatest need for alcohol. Many will prefer to use such drugs as 
digitalis, strychnine, aether and ammonia Ijefore resorting to its 
use, but most of us must admit that there are a good many cases 
which will not respond to the drugs mentioned above, and in 
which we are forced to have recourse to alcohol in some form or 
another. 

Its advantages may be summarized as follows : 

1. It will sometimes raise the force and quiet the tumultuous 
action of a failing heart when drugs have failed. 

2. It frequently eases pain and distress as nothing else will. 

3. In many cases it promotes sleep better and more safely 
than hypnotics. 

4. Although it cannot be counted as a food, it often takes 
the place of and, temporarily at any rate, does away with the 
necessity for food. 

Its dangers are these : 

1. It sometimes irritates the stomach and causes intolerance 
of food, at the same time engorging the liver. 

2. It occasionally produces an exciting rather than a soothing 
effect on the nervous system. 

3. Its prolonged use instead, or at the expense, of food will 
eventually precipitate and intensify complete cardiac failure. 

It must not be understood that the indiscriminate use of 
alcohol is here advocated, but it is attempted to put it in its 
proper place as a most useful drug, to be used with discretion 
under circumstances where nothing that we know of answers 
quite the same purpose. 



ANEURISM 

The dietetic treatment of aneurism has undergone many 
changes, and a good deal of difference of opinion exists as to 
whether the diet should be particularly modified or not. We 
think that the starvation regime, so strongly recommended by 
Tufnell, is certainly unsuitable in many cases, and in some we 
believe it to be distinctly harmful. At the same time, there is 



620 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

no doubt in our mind that, in very many cases, a certain amount 
of restriction in food and drink is most beneficial. We must not 
condemn such measures as wholly useless because they are not 
absolutely curative. In such a progressive, and almost invariably 
fatal, disease as thoracic aneurism it is well if we find any method 
of treatment which arrests progress for a time and relieves the 
patient of some of his pain and symptoms. The rigid Tufnell 
diet consisted of : Morning meal : 2 oz. of bread and butter with 
2 oz. of milk or cocoa. Midday meal : 3-4 oz. of meat with 2-3 
oz. of potato or bread and 3-4 oz. of water. Evening meal : 
2 oz. of bread and butter with 2 oz. of milk or tea. Poor, half- 
starved, anaemic and debilitated patients, or those broken down 
in health by syphilis (and most are syphilitic), or again, patients 
with bad heart disease and failing compensation in addition to 
their aneurism, especially aortic cases, do badly under such starva- 
tion measures, and should not be subjected to any such regime. 
But even in such debilitated cases, and certainly in others better 
nourished, and still more so in plethoric cases, certain modifica- 
tions and careful selection in both the quality and quantity of the 
food and drink taken will be found beneficial. In some weakly 
individuals it will be found that a wholly milk and farinaceous 
diet is best at first ; and this in spite of the somewhat increased 
amount of fluid taken. Soon, as their powers of assimilation 
increase, a drier and more strongly nitrogenous diet may be sub- 
stituted, but it must be understood that a diet rich in animal food 
is not recommended, because it is more stimulating to the heart, 
whilst our object is to obtain as quiet a circulation as possible. 
It must be remembered that just as we inculcate complete rest 
of body in such cases, so we must be careful not to put any un- 
necessary work upon the digestive organs, and, therefore, it is 
essential that all food should be carefully selected as to digesti- 
bility and given at such intervals as to allow a proper rest between 
meals. 

Alcohol is not to be allowed in such cases, unless it be evident 
that digestion fails without the habitual stimulant. In such 
cases it must be our aim gradually to diminish the amount taken 
until the patient can do without it altogether. As anginal symp- 
toms are so frequent in cases of aneurism, the reader is referred 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 621 

to what is said under that heading for further points in the dietetic 
treatment of aneurisms. 



ANGINA PECTORIS 

In the treatment of patients suffering from " heart pang " 
the careful management of the diet is second in importance only 
to the need for rest. True angina will be treated here : anginoid 
attacks (or pseudo-angina) come more rightly under functional 
disorders, to which the reader is referred for its dietetic treatment. 
The frequency with which an attack of angina is caused by some 
dyspeptic attack or the ingestion of some indigestible food must 
have been the common experience of all, and it is only by the 
greatest attention to diet that patients who are liable to such 
attacks can be kept free from them. In many cases errors in 
diet have to be corrected and dyspepsia treated, for flatulent 
distension of the stomach or bowels must be carefully guarded 
against. All irritating food such as peppers and spices must be 
avoided. Strong alcoholic drinks come into this category and 
should not be allowed as a routine, though their efficacy in the 
treatment of the immediate attack must be allowed. In some 
cases the patients are weak and feeble and their powers of diges- 
tion much impaired ; and with such cases a purely milk and soup 
diet is best to begin with. Indeed we shall have to peptonize 
even this form of nourishment in some instances. As they get 
stronger it is important to give flesh and fish, thoroughly minced 
and well cooked, rather than starchy foods. With those who 
are able to take, more or less, ordinary food the principles to be 
followed are these : 

1. These patients need good nourishment. 

2. They need nourishment in small bulk that will promote 
vigorous action of the heart. 

3. The food must be most digestible, quickly digestible, and, 
above all, not such as will cause flatulent distension. 

Of our mixed diet undoubtedly flesh in some form or other 
(meat, bird or fish) answers the above requirements most closely. 
Further, one must again urge the limitation of starchy foods, 



622 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

because of their slow digestibility and the flatulent distension 
so often caused by their use. Thus we have : 

Milk, good strong soups (not spiced), meat, bird, fish (all 
carefully selected and well cooked). Eggs are permissible, as 
well as well cooked green vegetables (preferably rubbed through 
a wire sieve), the pulp of cooked fruit with cream, custards, 
junket and plain jellies. Tea and coffee are best avoided, and in 
any case, excess in their use must be looked for and strictly 
prohibited. Stimulants can only be allowed in a weak form and 
very small quantities. For drink water or any of its disguises, 
such as barley-water, toast-water, home made lemonade and so 
forth, with milk, is much the best, and in many cases fairly 
copious drinks of hot water are directly beneficial, by aiding 
digestion and elimination and preventing stasis, fermentation 
and flatulent distension. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD AND 
BLOOD-FORMING ORGANS 



CHAPTER XXI 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD AND BLOOD- 
FORMING ORGANS 

BY JOHN COWAN, M.D., D.Sc. 

THE dietetic treatment of the anaemias is in many cases one 
of the most important therapeutic indications, for pathological 
conditions of the gastro-intestinal tract and the blood as a whole 
react upon each other with, sometimes, notable intensity. The 
relations of the two may, however, vary in different cases. In 
some instances the general condition is dependent on a gastro- 
intestinal cause ; in others the connexion is the reverse ; while 
in a third group both the general and the local symptoms own 
a common origin. 

Empirical treatment is always unsatisfactory to the prac- 
titioner, but in this group of diseases must often be prescribed, 
as our knowledge of the causes which produce them is peculiarly 
meagre and deficient. Recent research has, however, thrown 
considerable light on some of the conditions which I have to 
consider, although the information available is still suggestive 
rather than definite ; and at the present time a rational line 
of treatment can more often be dictated than was possible a 
few years ago. 

In this article I shall consider chlorosis and pernicious anaemia 
at some length, and will refer to these sections for details in the 
subsequent paragraphs, so as to avoid reiteration as far as it is 
possible. 

CHLOROSIS 

We have still little knowledge of the causes of chlorosis, though 
innumerable theories as to its origin have been propounded at 
different times. Its onset has been ascribed to gastric indiges- 

62o 40 



626 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tion, to constipation and auto-intoxication, to defective develop- 
ment of the sexual or of the vascular organs, and to functional 
nervous disturbances of various kinds. 

The disease occurs mainly, if not exclusively, in girls, and as 
a rule in the years immediately following the onset of menstrua- 
tion, though relapses are not uncommon during the succeeding 
decade. It affects all ranks of society from the highest to the 
lowest, and an hereditary tendency may be noticed, the women 
of successive generations being sometimes affected, and often 
more than one member of an individual family. Chlorotics are 
not necessarily unfertile, indeed they are often the reverse ; and 
an attack, if fully recovered from, seems to have no influence on 
the duration of life. 

It is manifest that a disease of this description can hardly be 
related to defective development of the sexual or vascular viscera, 
and digestive disturbances, however important they may be, and 
no one doubts their influence, can evidently have no essential 
bearing, or they would produce similar symptoms in the opposite 
sex. The cardinal factor in the etiology must be a sexual one, 
and any theory which assumes the contrary necessarily falls at 
once. But, although many theories have been brought forward, 
the evidence available is still insufficient to supply a satis- 
factory answer. 

Although the essential factor is still unknown, a large mass of 
information is now available with regard to the secondary, or 
contributory, causes. In probably the majority of cases the 
personal hygiene is found to have been defective. 

Chlorosis is thus peculiarly common among domestic servants, 
perhaps as a result of their long hours of indoor work, of physical 
exertion out of proportion to their physique, of insufficient amount 
of sleep, or imperfect ventilation of their living or sleeping rooms. 
But it is by no means infrequent among girls reared in comfortable 
homes, where these causes should apparently be inactive. The 
comparison may however be apt ; lawn tennis and riding may 
represent the physical strain ; balls and entertainments may 
allow little time for sleep ; and the hot air of the theatre or 
crowded drawing-room may be even more vitiated than that of the 
kitchen. Overwork may be mental as well as physical, and long 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 627 

school hours and constantly recurring examinations may exert 
their own pernicious influence. 

At this particular stage of development dietetic errors are 
apt to occur, for the girl is passing from the strict supervision of 
the schoolroom to the freer habits of the adult, and " the likes 
and dislikes " of the child are apt, in consequence, to be per- 
petuated, and even accentuated. Schoolroom routine, too, may 
prove disadvantageous, for although, as Pawlow has shown, 
suitable digestive secretions are elaborated for each individual 
meal, still gross variations in the diet cannot at once be accommo- 
dated, and digestion in such cases is necessarily imperfect ; and 
the consequent discomforts may provoke still further deviations. 

The diet of chlorotic girls thus almost invariably requires 
close supervision. In the majority of cases it will be found to be 
defective, and as a rule the protein and fatty intake is deficient, 
while the carbo-hydrate consumption may be excessive ; the 
total quantity, too, is sometimes insufficient. In a small number 
of cases the diet is actively injurious, such substances as vinegar, 
dry rice or coffee, or highly spiced and seasoned foods, forming 
the large proportion of the daily diet. 

Dietetic errors may, of course, arise from other causes than the 
mere whim of a growing girl, and among hospital patients, poverty 
and ignorance are probably the most important. 

In another large group of cases gastro-intestinal symptoms 
occur, and exaggerate any initial error. In many cases they 
seem to precede the onset of the disease, and they have been 
considered by some as its cause rather than as its result ; but 
they not infrequently ensue subsequent to the onset, and in other 
cases again may be wholly absent throughout the whole illness. 

Gastric symptoms are the most frequent, and may be of varied 
severity. In the slighter degrees a feeling of fulness after food, 
flatulence and eructations, are the main features, but actual pain, 
more or less severe, and vomiting, sometimes persistent and 
repeated, may be experienced ; and in a small proportion, definite 
evidence of gastric catarrh or ulceration may obtain. 

Intestinal symptoms are also common. Constipation occurs 
in greater or less degree in probably more than hah* of all cases ; 
diarrhoea is comparatively rare ; while flatulence and colic are not 



628 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

uncommon, and are usually associated with stools that are offen- 
sive in their odour, and abnormal in their colour and consis- 
tence. 

Various explanations of these symptoms have been brought 
forward, and careful examination usually reveals some abnor- 
mality in the gastro-intestinal tract. The teeth, for example, 
are often wanting, and thorough mastication may be impossible ; 
or they may be carious and septic, with surrounding inflammation, 
or even pyorrhea alveolaris. It is always advisable to examine 
the mouth thoroughly after the removal of any artificial teeth. 
The cheap dentists, whom servants girls attend, often saw off 
carious teeth flush with the gums, and apply a plate on the top ; 
and a row of ivory white incisors may conceal a hidden septic 
focus, which, however, generally gives evidence of its presence 
by the offensive odour of the breath. 

Careful examination of the stomach may reveal abnormal 
conditions. It is sometimes enlarged, or displaced downwards 
or to the side ; and the gastric secretions are very frequently 
imperfect. There is still some discussion as to the usual findings, 
but the hydrochloric acid is often excessive, rarely of average 
amount, and occasionally deficient or even wholly absent. 

Several writers have endeavoured to prove that the abdominal 
symptoms are the result of ill-fitting or too tightly laced corsets, 
which interfere with the proper position and action of the 
muscular viscera ; but while extreme examples may produce 
such interference, the general weakness of the muscular walls 
must also help, and the symptoms are sometimes notable without 
-any gross fault of this kind. 

In another group of cases, the most careful examination fails 
to reveal any abnormality in the gastric functions, and the 
symptoms must be ascribed to mere gastric hypersesthesia. 

It is evident from the above that the dietetic treatment of 
chlorosis is one of the main indications which has to be followed, 
and a satisfactory result is little likely to occur until the gastro- 
intestinal functions are performed easily and well. A gastric 
ulcer or gastritis of course requires treatment of its special kind, 
which, however, is considered in detail elsewhere. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 629 

Whenever the gastric symptoms are severe, the patient should 
be kept in bed at absolute rest ; for the defective intake entailed 
by their presence, tends to exaggerate the prevailing malnutri- 
tion, which, however, is minimized by the cessation of active 
exercise. Rest, too, is an excellent therapeutic measure in almost 
all gastric disturbances, and the symptoms are often rapidly 
lessened or abolished, quite apart from any special medication. 

If vomiting is frequent, oral alimentation should be stopped 
for a few days, only sips of hot water containing bicarbonate of 
soda ( 10 gr. to 1 oz.) being allowed ; and a mustard plaster may be 
applied to the epigastrium. Nutrient enemata may be utilized, 
but large saline injections (3 to 4 pints in the 24 hours) are usually 
sufficient to tide over the few days required. If vomiting is not 
severe, some oral alimentation is generally possible even at the 
outset. Milk, when diluted, is as a rule well borne and may be 
given at first in ounce doses every hour. Bismuth carbonate 
and soda bicarbonate may be given in addition, with hot applica- 
tions to the epigastrium. As the symptoms subside, the quantity 
of milk should be rapidly augmented, hourly feeds being continued 
until two pints of milk are taken in the 24 hours, the interval 
between doses being thereafter slowly increased. Four to eight 
pints of milk can frequently be digested easily and without dis- 
comfort, but the "stools should be examined regularly for un- 
digested curd. In some cases the vomiting is persistent, or 
the milk is ill borne. It may be made more digestible by being 
citrated, " soured," or peptonized, and more palatable by the 
addition of weak freshly infused tea or coffee as flavouring agents, 
or in the form of curds or junket. Whey, mixed with white 
wine, and albumin water are sometimes of value in severe cases. 

Gastric ulcer is so frequent an accompaniment of chlorosis 
that its presence should be suspected in every case where acute 
pain accompanies the ingestion of solid food, even without the 
characteristic vomiting and epigastric tenderness. It is always 
wise to keep such patients on a purely fluid dietary until the 
bowels have been freely emptied, and the absence of blood from 
the stools determined. In many cases it takes several days to 
ensure such a result, as the constipation is often obstinate and 
scybalous material continues to be present in the stools. 



630 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

In every case where the pain is acute, oral alimentation should 
be entirely stopped, and gastric sedatives, with opium if necessary, 
given in adequate doses. In the less severe cases the symptoms 
as a rule rapidly abate with absolute rest and a fluid diet. It is 
generally wise, however, to refrain from the administration of 
solid food of any kind until undiluted milk is utilized without 
discomfort, or the administration of gastric sedatives. 

During this period any notable oral defects should be rectified. 
It is of course impossible to thoroughly empty the mouth of all 
carious stumps ; but repeated and thorough cleansing of the 
teeth with mild antiseptic solutions (glycerine of carbolic acid, 
boroglyceride, hydrogen peroxide) speedily alters the complexion 
of affairs. 

The gastric symptoms being in complete abeyance, the mouth 
moderately clean, and the bowel thoroughly emptied, solid food 
may now be commenced, but advances should be made gradually. 
The less coarse forms of farinacea (semolina, arrowroot, tapioca, 
bread and milk) should be used, and in the absence of 
symptoms their quantity may be fairly rapidly increased, though 
large amounts are rarely permissible as long as sedatives are re- 
quired for gastric comfort. Dry toast, rusks, ground rice, Robin- 
son's patent oat flour, may be added for the sake of variety, the 
quantity of milk consumed being still four or five pints. On such a 
dietary the patient's weight as a rule begins to increase within 
two or three weeks. 

The next addition to the dietary should be made as gradually 
as the first. Small whiting, soles or haddock, plainly boiled with a 
white sauce, or as a soufflee, and lightly boiled or poached eggs, 
are usually well borne, and as soon as a fair quantity is being taken 
the carbo-hydrate and milk intake may be correspondingly de- 
creased ; but a couple of pints of the latter should be still con- 
tinued. A small tumblerful may be taken with the solid meals, and 
the rest at appropriate intervals. 

An unrestricted dietary is rarely permissible until the blood 
count is normal. The tendency to hyperacidity must be borne in 
mind, and any excess of carbohydrates, especially the coarser 
varieties, is apt to rewaken the symptoms. Potatoes, pastry and 
vegetable soups are particularly unsatisfactory in this respect. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 631 

There is, however, no centra-indication to the finer meats, such 
as chicken, tripe, rabbit, fresh young birds, and even mutton, 
provided that they are plainly cooked (roasted or boiled) and 
thoroughly masticated. If mastication is impossible from the 
absence of teeth or tenderness of the gums, these foods may be 
given in the form of cream or mince. 

The common deficiency in the fatty foods requires attention. 
Milk of course contains a fair proportion of fat, but it should be 
reinforced with cream as early as possible, and butter should 
be taken freely. Fat bacon and sardines are other food-stuffs 
which can often be made use of. Pears and apples, if thoroughly 
stewed without an excess of added sugar, are often well borne, 
and can be taken with cream. 

In the more severe cases four to six weeks of a milk and 
carbo-hydrate diet may be required to allay the symptoms, but 
in the large majority of patients in whom dyspeptic symptoms 
obtain, a much shorter period is sufficient, if the patient is kept 
from the outset at absolute rest in bed ; and the rapidity with 
which abdominal symptoms disappear under this regime is some- 
times very striking. Even in cases where gastric symptoms are 
wholly absent, rest in bed is advisable for a week or two at any 
rate, particularly in those patients whose appetite is defective 
or capricious ; and the initial improvement may be rapidly 
continued when a fair amount of outdoor air and exercise is 
subsequently allowed. 

Few chlorotics require such a lengthy and careful restriction 
of their diet. In many but little restriction need be imposed, 
a plainly cooked diet of fresh foods with a suitable proportion 
of carbo-hydrates, fats and proteins being successfully utilized ; 
but, on the other hand, few of these patients can be allowed to 
continue their old habits, as the quality or the quantity of their 
food-stuffs is generally found to be defective. And the diet must 
be supervised for several months after recovery, if relapses are to 
be avoided. 

The dietetic treatment of chlorosis is of course subsidiary to 
the administration of iron. It is rarely judicious to administer 
iron in any form so long as a milk and carbo-hydrate dietary is 



632 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

required ; and digestive disturbances should be in complete 
abeyance. 

Constipation, when present, requires very special attention, 
and drugs may be needed to ensure the daily evacuation of the 
bowels. If gastric symptoms are absent dietetic measures may 
be sufficient, a bulky and more or less irritating food residue 
securing the desired result. Brown bread, porridge, marmalade, 
fresh or stewed fruits (especially apples, pears, prunes, figs), the 
green vegetables, bananas, etc., may be employed ; but it should 
always be remembered that the last named is the not infrequent 
cause of a mild form of colitis. It is usually well borne if cooked. 

Drugs are generally required so long as the patient is upon a 
milk or farinaceous diet. Large enemata, frequently repeated, 
defeat the end in view, and should only be given as occasional 
helps ; but glycerine enemata are often successful. Of drugs, 
Carlsbad water, sulphate of soda, castor oil, liquid extract of 
senna pods or of cascara, and the B.P. Pil. aloes et ferri, are those 
most useful. The saline sulphates have been decried on theo- 
retical grounds, but practical experience seems to contradict 
the theory. 

In a very small proportion of cases the digestive symptoms 
seem related not so much to actual gastric disability as to a 
hypersensitiveness, the result of the anaemia ; and a successful 
issue can only be attained by improvement of the condition of 
the blood. Such cases are, however, the exception. There is 
generally a notable disproportion between the severity of the 
symptoms and the complaints ; the patients are, as a rule, 
palpably neurotic ; and there is an entire absence of objective 
evidence of gastro-intestinal wrong-doing. 

The majority of patients suffering from gastric symptoms, 
however, require careful attention, and are speedily relieved by 
such a course of treatment as is indicated above, and any measures 
adopted on the supposition that the symptoms are neurotic in 
their origin should be carried out tentatively and with care. 

The main difficulty in the treatment of chlorosis is the decision 
as to how radical the treatment should be. Is it necessary to 
confine this patient to bed and to a fluid diet ? Or may a limited 
amount of exercise and a solid dietary be adopted from the start ? 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 633 

It is as a rule far more satisfactory to err on the safe side in such 
cases, and if the symptoms disappear rapidly, an equally rapid 
transition through the various stages can easily be made. On 
the other hand, continuance of the symptoms and a retrogression 
in the treatment is always disappointing from the patient's point 
of view. 

Whenever sedative drugs are required, the dietary should be 
restricted to milk, or at any rate, the finer farinacea. There is 
no objection, however, to such aids to digestion as alkalies, pepsin 
and bitters, and small doses of these are often of value in promoting 
appetite or digestion. 

DIETS 

MILK DIET 

4 a.m Milk, 10 oz. (hot or cold). 

8 a.m Bread and milk, 15 oz. 

11 a.m Egg flip, 10 oz. 

I p.m Milk pudding with milk, 15 oz. 

(Cornflour, ground rice, semolina, sago, tapioca, 
arrowroot, custard). 

3 p.m Benger's food, 10 oz. 

5.30 p.m. . . . Milk pudding or bread and milk, 10 oz. 
8 p.m Milk, 10 oz. 

The quantity of milk may be increased to 4-6 pinte in the twenty-four 
hours. 

LIGHT DIET 

4am Milk, 10 oz. 

8 a.m Milk or weak tea with milk, 10 oz. 

Bread and butter, 2 oz. 

White fish,' boiled, with white sauce, 4 oz. 

Or an egg, lightly boiled or poached. 

II a.m Milk, or Benger's food, 10 oz. 

1 p.m Chicken or white soup, 10 oz. 

Chicken or white fish, 4 oz. 

Bread, 1 oz. 

Potatoes, 2 oz. 

Vegetables, 1 oz. (cauliflower, cabbage, sprouts, 
etc.). 

Milk pudding, 10 oz. 
5.30 p.m. . . . Milk or weak tea with milk, 10 or. 

Bread and butter, 2 oz. 

An egg, or white fish, 4 oz. 
8 p.m Milk, 10 oz. 

Cream, 10 oz. per diem. 



34 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

FTJLL DIET 

4 a.m Milk, 10 oz. 

5 a.m Milk or weak tea with milk, 10 oz. 

Bread and butter, 4 oz. 

White fish, 4 oz. 

Or an egg. 

11 a.m Milk or Benger's food, 10 oz. 

1 p.m Soup, 10 oz. 

Meat, boiled or roasted, 6 oz. (chop, steak, mince, 
mutton, chicken). 

Bread, 2 oz. 

Potatoes, 2 oz. 

Milk pudding, 10 oz. 
5.30 p.m. . . . Milk or weak tea with milk, 10 oz. 

Bread and butter, 4 oz. 

An egg, or white fish, 4 oz. 
8 p.m Milk, 10 oz. 

Cream, 10 oz. per diem. 

These diets, which are in use in my wards, have proved satis- 
factory in the large majority of anaemic cases. In private prac- 
tice they have usually to be modified, but the general idea is 
maintained. The meals are taken at comparatively short inter- 
vals, and the chief meal is in the middle of the day, and is followed 
by a relatively long interval. 

Patients, when on full diet, should rest quietly for at least 
half an hour after the larger meals, and for the same period be- 
fore them ; and efficient mastication must be insisted upon. 
Every effort should be made to ensure a sufficient variety in the 
food-stuffs so as to encourage appetite. 

When constipation is persistent, the chief alterations in the 
diet are the substitution of brown bread for white, an increase 
in the amount of the green vegetables, and the addition of por- 
ridge and such fruits as are in season, in particular apples, pears 
and bananas. The fruit jellies, marmalade, dried or stewed 
plums, prunes and figs may also be used. 

The following " card " of " fresh foods " is often useful. 

Bread, unsweetened biscuits, scones. 

Butter, jellies, marmalade. 

Milk puddings (cornflour, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, semolina, rice). 

Thick soups (white, potato, barley, etc.). 

White fish (sole, whiting, haddock, cod). 

Fresh young birds (chicken, pheasant, partridge, grouse). 

Beef, mutton, tripe, rabbit. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 635 

Potatoes, cabbage, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, peas, beans, lettuce, 

tomatoes. 
Grapes, strawberries, melons, bananas (in moderation), oranges, apples, 

pears. 

Milk, cream, curds and whey. 
Eggs, custard. 
Tea, to be infused for three minutes, and mixed with nearly an equal 

quantity of milk. 
No dried, salted, tinned, or preserved foods of any kind are allowed, 

save food, which may be added to th milk, and 

bacon. 

The food must be roasted, boiled, stewed, or broiled. Sauces must 
not be highly seasoned. Condiments are to be used sparingly. 

Fish Souffle" 

Six oz. haddock or whiting ; 2 oz. butter ; the yolks of three eggs 
and the whites of four ; 2 oz. flour ; 8 oz. fish stock ; pepper and salt. 

Remove the skin and bones from the fish, and after pounding the flesh 
thoroughly, pass it through a fine sieve. Put the butter and flour into a 
saucepan and rub together over the fire ; add the fish stock, and stir until 
it boils. Add in order, pepper, salt, the fish pulp, the egg yolks and lastly 
the egg whites, which have already been beaten up stiffly. The mixture 
is poured into a well buttered tin, and baked in a moderate oven for 45 
minutes. 

Chicken Cream 

The breast of a young chicken ; pepper ; salt ; a small teacupful of 
cream. 

Pound the chicken thoroughly and pass it through a fine sieve. Place 
the pulp in a small basin, with the pepper and salt, and beat with a fork 
for ten minutes, adding the cream very gradually. Place the mixture 
in a well wetted mould, cover with paper, and poach for twenty minutes 
in boiling water. 



PERNICIOUS AMEMIA 

Pernicious anaemia contrasts in many ways with chlorosis. 
It is not confined to the female sex, occurring as it does a little 
more frequently among men than among women ; nor to any 
particular age, as it has obtained at the ages of 5 and 73, though 
it is most common in the third and fourth decades. Heredity, 
so far as is known, has but little influence, and while chlorosis 
scarcely interferes with the duration of life, unless from accidental 
complications, the tendency in pernicious anaemia is generally 
towards a fatal issue, though temporary rallies may prolong the 
patient's life for, sometimes, a period of years. 

It is extremely probable that the disease is the result of an 



636 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

abnormal haemolysis in the portal tract. The deep colour- 
ation of the skin, urine, and stools all point to increased 
destruction of red blood cells, and the fact that post-mortem 
examination reveals the presence of iron hi abnormal amount 
hi the periphery of the hepatic lobules, indicates the special 
site. Changes, too, are often found hi the gastro-intestinal 
tract. Both the stomach and the intestines may be affected. 
The mucous membrane is pale and perhaps shows even numerous 
capillary haemorrhages. It may be thinned, atrophic, or the 
site of fibroid changes, though these latter are uncommon ; or 
present evidence of catarrhal processes of varying extent and 
intensity. 

The exact character of the primary fault is, however, as yet 
undetermined. Dr. William Hunter is the chief advocate of the 
theory that pernicious anaemia is the result of a specific gastro- 
intestinal infection. He has pointed out the general resemblance 
of the disease to the chronic infections, and has emphasized the 
frequency with which gastro-intestinal symptoms and lesions 
are met with. In his early papers he drew attention to the lesions 
that might be present hi the mouth ; cario-necrosis of the teeth, 
gingivitis, pyorrhoea alveolaris, and glossitis, often of peculiar 
severity and persistence ; and he has isolated micro-organisms 
from both the gastric and the intestinal contents. The febrile 
paroxysms, he thinks, correspond to exacerbations of the infect- 
ive process, while the intoxication is at any rate subacute during 
the afebrile periods. 

In the present state of knowledge, the question cannot be 
considered as settled, as a specific organism has not as yet been 
isolated, or the exact site of the process determined. It may be 
in the stomach or bowel, or in both, or these may be simply the 
portal of the infection, and the actual site may be visceral. 

If Dr. Hunter's theory is correct, the indications for 
treatment will vary during the different stages of the malady. In 
the quiescent periods, the main indication is the improvement of 
the general nutrition, the abdominal condition being more or 
less ignored ; while during the febrile paroxysms, attention should 
be paid to the gastro-intestinal tract in particular, and the local 
irritation allayed as a preliminary step. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 637 

Our present state of ignorance concerning the bacterial pro- 
cesses in the bowel as a whole, even during health, entails a line of 
treatment which is necessarily empirical and tentative. But 
certain indications seem sufficiently clear, and the question must 
be considered from the standpoints of the bacteria themselves 
and the nutritive materials on which they grow. 

It is evidently advisable to limit, so far as may be, the 
entrance of additional'bacteria into the parts. It is manifestly 
impossible to completely sterilize the food-stuffs, and such a pro- 
cedure is contra-indicated for other reasons ; but care should be 
taken that obviously infected material (high game, dirty milk, 
etc.), is not ingested ; and any septic focus about the mouth should 
be attended to, in the way already described. 

If there is any evidence of gastric infection, the stomach 
should be washed out regularly. Antiseptic drugs, such as sul- 
phocarbolate of soda, carbolic acid, etc., are also of use, but the 
mechanical douching of the mucous membrane is much more 
efficacious. Herter and others have recommended similar 
treatment, when the symptoms point to infection of the large 
bowel. The^former recommends the passage of the soft tube 
as high as is possible, and the slow introduction of fluid in 
quantity ; and he states that he has seen notable improve- 
ment in the blood counts after such measures. 

It is, of course, impossible to apply treatment of this char- 
acter to the small bowel ; and the results of the administration of 
antiseptic drugs, such as naphthol, salol, etc., are usually disap- 
pointing, even when such measures as keratin capsules and the 
like have been utilized. An occasional purge will of course assist, 
but frequent purgation will inevitably lead to defective nutrition 
from the loss of food material. The condition can be best 
attacked in other ways. 

The degree of bacterial infection (that is to say the numbers of 
bacteria present) depends very largely upon the amount of 
nutritive material that is available for them. In the absence of 
food-stuffs, their numbers rapidly lessen. The food should, in 
consequence, be presented to the small intestine in such a 
form as will lead to its rapid digestion and absorption. 

It may be urged that the lesion in pernicious anaemia is an 



638 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

infection of the tissues and not an intoxication derived from 
decomposing food. There is but little direct evidence in 
favour of either supposition ; and even supposing that the 
former theory is correct, tissues freed from the continuous 
absorption of the products of decomposing food are surely much 
more likely to cope successfully with an infection than tissues 
exposed to such influences. 

Anorexia or gastric symptoms of any kind may prove a seri- 
ous hindrance to the administration of food. In these cases it is 
generally advisable to confine the patient to bed, though as much 
fresh air as is possible should be provided. The dietary should 
then be largely fluid, but it is probably wrong to restrict the 
variety or the amount of food-stuffs to the degree that may 
be necessary in the case of such a disease as chlorosis. The 
anaemia tends to impair the digestive secretions ; the imperfect 
absorption of food leads to further deterioration of the blood ; 
and the vicious circle perpetuates itself. 

Milk is sometimes badly borne by these patients. The gastric 
juice is often defective in HC1 and pepsin, and both may be 
wholly absent and gastric digestion in abeyance. But an attempt 
should always be made to ensure the consumption of a certain 
amount, and any of the artifices already suggested may be utilized. 
Peptonized milk rarely gives rise to symptoms, but the taste may 
interfere with its consumption. White wine whey, whipped eggs, 
egg-nog, meat soups, beef -tea, etc., may be utilized if milk 
cannot be taken, and their nutritive value may be increased by 
the addition of extra protein in the form of protene, plasmon, 
etc., or of some of the finer farinacea. 

It must be acknowledged that a fluid dietary is much less 
frequently successful in pernicious anaemia than it is in chlorosis ; 
and if the symptoms continue, variations in the diet should be 
made. Much help may be got by careful examinations of the 
stools for undigested food debris, etc. ; and by the analysis of the 
gastric contents after a test meal, if such a procedure can be 
adopted ; but the weakness of the patient may interdict the 
passage of the stomach tube. 

A small easily digested solid dietary should next be essayed. 
Oysters, eggs, lightly boiled or poached, the finer white fish, 



f DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 639 

underdone meat, if necessary finely minced or scraped, raw meat 
juice, scraped raw meat, preferably given as sandwiches, raw or 
lightly cooked ox marrow, are sometimes tolerated when a more 
bulky fluid diet is ill borne. The cooking, however, must be of 
the plainest variety, and rich sauces or large amounts of 
condiments must be prohibited. On such a dietary intestinal 
symptoms sometimes subside with great rapidity. 

A largely protein dietary of this kind is almost invariably at- 
tended by great fcetor of the stools, and the amount of indican and 
aromatic sulphates in the urine is generally notably augmented. 
The bowel should in these patients be flushed out at intervals, so 
as to limit as far as possible the intestinal decomposition. The 
administration of antiseptic drugs has on the whole proved 
unsatisfactory. Mercury in small doses is probably the most 
generally useful. 

The chief objections to the use of raw meat are the disagreeable 
flavour, and the impossibility of ensuring a sterile diet. The 
former may be overcome by a partial cooking ; the latter by 
utilizing the central parts of the flesh. The tapeworm parasites, 
etc., may of course be conveyed in such a way, but the danger 
in this country is probably less than elsewhere. In India it is 
said to be considerable. 

The cases in which gastro-intestinal symptoms are in abeyance 
should be fed on ordinary lines. A fairly varied mixed diet of 
fresh food, with a maximum of the red meats and a fair propor- 
. tion of milk, is usually well digested ; but a careful watch should 
be kept upon the stools to ensure that digestion is complete. 
Fever per ae is no centra-indication to even over-feeding, if the 
digestion is good, but the coincidence is, Unfortunately, often 
lacking. 

THE SPLENIC ANAEMIAS 

The association of anaemia of a severe type and enlargement of 
the spleen has been recognized clinically for many years. In a 
considerable proportion of these cases the enlargement of the 
spleen is due to some well recognized cause, such as hepatic 
cirrhosis or amyloid disease, but in a certain number the recog- 



640 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

nized causes are absent, and it seems probable that we have to 
deal with a specific disease of unknown origin. The disease is 
essentially chronic, and is not incompatible with fair health for 
many years (25-30). It may occur at any age, but the infantile 
and adult types vary to some extent, and had better be con- 
sidered separately. 

In the adult form, the disease seems to occur most frequently 
between the ages of 20 and 40, and does not affect either sex in 
particular. In well marked cases the spleen is notably enlarged 
and the liver may also be increased in size. The patient is anaemic, 
and the skin is often diffusely pigmented. Gastro-intestinal 
symptoms are not uncommon, in particular gastric haemorrhage 
which is often profuse, and diarrhoea. The course of the illness 
is very chronic, but the anaemia on the whole progresses, and death 
ensues from haemorrhage, complications or asthenia. A terminal 
cirrhosis of the liver with ascites (Banti's disease) is not unusual. 

Splenic anaemia may also occur during infancy, though we are 
still ignorant as to whether it is the same disease as the adult 
form, or sui generis. It is met with most frequently in the 
second year of life, and is generally associated with some degree 
of rickets. The infants are notably emaciated and anaemic, and 
sometimes of lemon yellow complexion. The liver and lymphatic 
glands may be enlarged as well as the spleen. Gastro-intestinal 
symptoms are the rule, vomiting and diarrhoea being the most 
frequent. 

The general resemblance between splenic anaemia and perni- 
cious anaemia is somewhat striking, but the lack of information 
on a large scale prevents any close comparison. The colour of 
the skin is sometimes very suggestive, and a megaloblastic type 
of blood is the rule in the infantile cases, and sometimes occurs 
in adult cases. Oral sepsis and gastro-intestinal symptoms may 
also occur. 

With our present knowledge treatment in the adult cases 
should be based on the lines suggested in the pernicious anaemia 
section, and the diet should be bland and suited to the digestive 
power. The tendency to gastric haemorrhage must be remem- 
bered, a tendency which is probably due to mechanical derange- 
ments of the venous supply produced by the splenic tumour, 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 641 

and any distension of the stomach by large quantities of food, 
flatulence, etc., or unnecessary irritation by irritating viands, 
should be avoided so far as is possible. 

The gastro-intestinal symptoms in the infantile form are 
usually well marked and call for special treatment. Diarrhoea 
is probably the most common, although vomiting may be per- 
sistent and severe. The stools are generally offensive, often 
green in colour, and may contain much mucus and undigested 
food. The dietary suitable for these symptoms is considered in 
the section on Diseases of Children. When gastro-intestinal 
symptoms are hi abeyance, the diet should be that suited to the 
particular age, but special care must be taken to prevent infec- 
tion of the milk ingested, and to prevent or remove any septic 
condition in the buccal cavity, which may be as marked during 
the first dentition as during the second. 



THE SECONDARY ANAEMIAS 

The diet in the " secondary " anaemias requires but brief 
consideration. It is essential to recognize the wide range of 
conditions which may produce anaemia. General and local 
infections, intoxications of divers kinds, starvation relative or 
absolute, overwork mental or physical, worry, insanitary sur- 
roundings and defective personal hygiene, may be the active 
agents, and recovery in any case is not likely to occur until the 
particular cause no longer operates. When this is fulfilled, the 
results of treatment are usually satisfactory. 

A full mixed diet is rarely if ever permissible unless the tongue 
is clean, the stools normal, and digestion easy and active. The 
dietary should be prescribed on the lines laid down in the section 
on Chlorosis. 

The secondary anaemias of infancy and childhood may of 
course result from causes of the same kind and variety as those 
active in adult life ; but dietetic errors and gastro-intestinal dis- 
turbances play on the whole a more important part than is the 
case in adult life. The growing child shows the effects of relative 
starvation very rapidly, and the slighter faults produce a more 

41 



642 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

serious result. The dietary should thus in every case be 
carefully revised and any defects rectified ; while gastro-intestinal 
symptoms must be treated on the lines required. 



THE LEUK32MIAS 

The symptoms in the leukaemias are in the main of a general 
kind, the direct result of the associated anaemia ; and in the later 
stages of the disease, may, as in any severe cachexia, be related 
to the alimentary tract. Such symptoms, however, occasionally 
arise at an early period, and are then usually connected with 
abdominal lesions. 

Enlargement of the spleen, which is so often extreme in the 
myelogenic cases, or of the abdominal lymph glands in the lymph- 
atic cases, may thus produce, by their mechanical interference, 
pressure symptoms of varying degree ; and in both forms specific 
lesions may occur in the tract. 

Any section of the bowel may be involved, and the lymphoid 
tissue is particularly affected. The tonsils and pharyngeal lym- 
phoid tissue may thus be notably enlarged ; the solitary glands 
of the stomach are occasionally implicated ; but the most 
common site is the Peyer's patches and solitary follicles of the 
bowel, particularly in the vicinity of the ileocaecal valve. 

A diffuse leucocytic infiltration is sometimes met with, most 
commonly in the acute lymphatic cases and affecting the gums. 
The tissues become swollen and may even hide the teeth, around 
which ulcerative processes arise ; and the ulceration may become 
extreme, with great foetor of the breath, a foul smelling ichorous 
discharge, and sometimes severe haemorrhage. The lymphoid 
enlargements in the bowel may also ulcerate, and diarrhoea 
may be severe and persistent, and occasionally associated with 
haemorrhage. 

Alimentary symptoms are often absent in the early stages of 
the chronic leukaemias, the appetite being satisfactory and the 
digestive functions easily and well performed. But even at this 
stage, splenic enlargement may occasion discomfort or a feeling 
of fullness after meals. Anorexia and flatulence may be trouble- 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 643 

some, and the bowels may be difficult to regulate, periods of 
constipation alternating with spurts of diarrhoea. 

As the disease progresses, the symptoms may become severe. 
Appetite may be wholly lost and the ingestion of food accom- 
panied by nausea and occasional vomiting. Diarrhoea may be 
persistent and severe. Haemorrhage may occur even without 
the formation of ulcers, though it is most profuse when this 
obtains. Haematemesis is comparatively rare and is seldom 
extreme ; bleeding from the bowel is more common, and is not 
infrequently the immediate cause of death. 

In acute lymphatic leukaemia the haemorrhagic tendency is 
often well marked at an early stage. Haemorrhage may occur 
from the nose or the mouth, more particularly in those cases 
where local necroses or ulcerations are present, and may be pro- 
fuse and continued. Gastric haemorrhage is more common than 
in the chronic cases, and intestinal haemorrhage is frequent. 
Vomiting may be troublesome ; diarrhoea occurs in the majority 
of cases. 

As we are still wholly ignorant of the causes of the leukaemias, 
the dietetic indications must be based upon our knowledge of the 
general tendencies of the disease, and on the actual condition 
of the patient. 

A generous diet is thus indicated in cases where the alimentary 
symptoms are slight or in abeyance, the meals being composed 
of the more easily digested foods, and irritating items prohibited. 
The meals should be moderate in amount, so as to avoid undue 
distension of the stomach, and must thus be fairly frequent, and 
a diet with a large food residue should be avoided. Laxative 
medicines must always be of the milder varieties. 

Special attention should be paid to the toilet of the mouth 
in those cases where oral symptoms are present, and the food must 
be fluid or semi-solid. Milk will form the main staple, and should 
be given in as large quantities as can be tolerated, predigested in 
whole or in part if gastric digestion is difficult or delayed, and 
reinforced, if possible, by the addition of the finer farinacea or 
some of the protein preparations. Meat extracts, raw meat juice, 
etc., are sometimes well borne. 

When gastric symptoms are severe, the food must necessarily 



644 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

be fluid and administered in small quantities at a time, but every 
effort should be made to ensure the retention of as large a quantity 
as is possible, for starvation is badly borne, and rectal feeding 
can rarely be carried out satisfactorily for any length of time. 
Peptonized milk, "soured" milk, buttermilk, citrated milk, or 
whey, are often of value. 

Diarrhoea, when severe, is sometimes very intractable and 
persistent ; but if gastric digestion is fair, a considerable amount 
of nourishment may be afforded. The farinacea are probably of 
less use than protein foods in such cases, and the finer fibred 
fishes (whiting, soles, etc.), chicken, sweetbreads, oysters, may be 
utilized as well as milk and eggs. The pancreatized carbo-hydrate 
preparations, such as Benger's food, are to be preferred to the 
malted articles. 

The usual drugs may afford help ; and while the astringent 
preparations are sometimes of value, opium is probably the most 
generally useful, and is usually well tolerated, even in consider- 
able doses. 



HODGKIN'S DISEASE 

The lesions in Hodgkin's disease are in many ways comparable 
to those which may occur in the leukaemias. The spleen and the 
abdominal lymph glands may be enlarged and the lymphatic 
tissue of the bowel may be involved, and symptoms of a similar 
nature may thus be invoked. 

Gastro-intestinal symptoms are, however, less frequently met 
with and need scarcely be discussed in detail. Treatment must 
be conducted on ordinary lines. 



SCURVY 

At the present day scurvy presents few terrors to the inhabit- 
ant of the civilized world, for the means of inter-communication 
are now so rapid and cheap that practically every variety of 
vegetables and fruit can be procured at any season of the year, and 
the possibility of a vegetable famine is remote. To the explorer, 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 645 

however, and the resident in besieged cities, the problem of the 
prevention of scurvy will always remain, and its effects are writ 
large in the cemeteries of Port Arthur and of Paris. 

Sporadic cases of scurvy do, however, now and then occur 
even in English towns, and may escape detection on account of 
their rarity, and there is little doubt that some cases of prolonged 
fever (enteric, for example) are followed by a protracted convales- 
cence from their complication by this disease, usually the result 
of the prolonged use of sterilized or boiled milk. Frontier 
medical officers are well acquainted with the association which is 
of necessity more common among their patients, and are in con- 
sequence accustomed to seek for its effects in their malarial and 
dysenteric patients. 

The essential point in the etiology of scurvy is the undis- 
puted fact that a plentiful diet of fresh vegetables cures the disease. 
The converse proposition is not, however, equally true, and a 
dietary wholly devoid of vegetable elements is not necessarily 
provocative of the disease. Many of the residents in Arctic 
regions, for instance, live exclusively on an animal diet during 
the winter months, and Nansen and his companion lived with- 
out harm for nine months on Frederick Jackson Island on a 
diet of fresh walrus or bear's meat, without any fresh vegetables 
or lime juice. Babies at the breast, too, rarely if ever develop 
the disease, though it is not uncommon after the infant has been 
weaned. 

The exact nature of the fault is, however, undetermined. 
Garrod suggested that the disease was due to a deficiency in the 
potash salts, while Buzzard considered that the organic potash 
salts were the vital factors. Ralfe thought that the disease was 
due to a deficiency in the alkalinity of the blood, and Sir A. E. 
Wright has recently investigated the point. He has shown by 
direct measurement that the alkalinity of the blood is lowered in 
cases of scurvy, and that the normal is regained with the cessa- 
tion of symptoms. Vegetable food-stuffs contain an excess of 
bases over mineral acids, while meat and cereals contain an 
excess of mineral acids over bases ; such foods as corned meat 
containing even less base from the abstraction of the blood and 
lymph during the process of preservation. The acid intoxica- 



646 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tion which results is, in his opinion, the immediate cause of the 
symptoms, and the essential treatment consists in the administra- 
tion of oxidizable organic salts to restore the normal alkalinity. 

Several writers have considered the disease to be the result 
of ptomaine poisoning or a specific infection. Jackson and Harley , 
from their experience in the Windward expedition, think that 
scurvy is the result of eating tainted food, the use of lime juice 
failing to prevent its occurrence while the subjects were on a diet 
largely composed of tinned and salted meat. Torup had already 
propounded a similiar theory. 

Babes has isolated a micro-organism from cases of scurvy, and 
has produced a somewhat similar disease by injecting cultures of it 
into animals ; and Coplans strongly supports the infective theory, 
as he found that the incidence of the disease in the concentration 
camps in South Africa varied in the different camps according 
to the habits of their occupants and the general sanitary 
arrangements. 

If infantile scurvy is considered to be the same disease as the 
adult form, its lessons must also be considered. It may undoubt- 
edly result from the use of boiled milk, and may be cured by the 
simple addition of fresh lime or lemon juice, without any other 
alterations in the food. 

This fact seems conclusive evidence against any infective or 
toxic theory, and according to Dr. Hutchison, is in favour of the 
acidosis theory, as the process of boiling converts the amorphous 
soluble citrate of lime which it contains into a crystaUizable and 
less soluble form, some of which is thrown out of solution, and 
so lost. 

Gastro-intestinal symptoms are not very prominent in the 
majority of cases of uncomplicated scurvy. The sepsis and 
tenderness in the mouth necessarily render mastication imperfect, 
and dyspeptic symptoms are not uncommon, though they are 
rarely severe ; a defective quality of food-stuffs will magnify the 
tendency. 

Constipation is the rule, but diarrhoea, which may be of the 
dysenteric type, may occur. The combination of dysentery and 
scurvy has not infrequently been observed, and it is necessary to 
recognize their association. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 647 

It is important, in the treatment of scurvy, to limit the infec- 
tion of the food-stuffs and of the stomach from the buccal cavity ; 
and the food must be fluid or semi-solid as long as mastication 
is impossible. 

The dietary should, if practicable, be composed wholly of fresh 
foods, and contain a large proportion of vegetables. Lettuce, 
cabbage, potatoes, yams, onion, cress, are probably the most useful 
vegetables, and apples, oranges, lemons, limes, the best of the 
fruits ; but the variety seems a matter of relative unimportance, 
and I have seen good results follow the administration of carrots 
and vegetable marrow, which were the only fresh vegetables 
available at the time ; and, in another case, of strawberries and 
cream ! Sauerkraut and potatoes are said to be the best form of 
preserved vegetables ; and of the fruit juices those of the lemon 
and lime. All of these, however, lose their anti-scorbutic pro- 
perties in time, though they are probably of value for at least two 
years. Milk, malt and claret are also said to be anti-scorbutic. 

In cases where vegetables are not available, fresh animal 
foods may be utilized, the blood being probably the most import- 
ant factor. Strong meat soups, raw meat juice, pounded raw 
meat, etc., may be given. 

Any error in the personal or general hygiene should at the same 
time be corrected. Starvation, overwork, mental depression,, 
insanitary surroundings, may all play their part in the causation 
of the disease. And on the assumption that the theories of 
Ralfe and Wright are correct, alkalies should be administered 
in full doses. 



PURPURA 

In the majority of cases with purpuric eruptions, the symptoms 
do not implicate the alimentary tract, and there is no reason to 
connect it with the origin of the disease ; but in a minority such 
symptoms may obtain, or a gastro-intestinal origin may be 
suspected. 

In purpura hsemorrhagica, for example, haemorrhage may 
occur from any part of the tract, epistaxis and intestinal haemor- 
rhage being the most common, and the loss of blood in either 



648 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

case may be copious and prolonged ; and both may occur without 
any special gastro-intestinal symptoms or with such as are 
evidently the results of a general and widespread affection. 

Cases of the type which are known as Henoch's purpura may, 
however, be associated with severe gastro-intestinal symptoms, 
though their relationship is somewhat ill-defined. It occurs 
mainly among children, and attacks are apt to recur over a period 
of years. The principal feature is the paroxysmal occurrence of 
purpuric eruptions with arthritis and abdominal symptoms, the 
chief of which are colic, which is usually severe, vomiting and 
diarrhoea, blood being often present in the vomit and the stools. 
The initial symptoms vary, the abdominal disturbance sometimes 
preceding the eruption and sometimes succeeding it, while both 
may arise at the same time. Dr. Osier has emphasized the variety 
of the cutaneous lesions that may be met with, purpura, erythema, 
angioneurotic oedema and urticaria, sometimes appearing in 
successive attacks ; and he apparently considers that the 
symptom-complex is most frequently the result of some 
general condition, the visceral manifestations being the result of 
gastro-intestinal lesions comparable to those that occur on the 
cutaneous surfaces. A haemorrhagic nephritis is an occasional 
complication, but one, however, which frequently leads to a fatal 
termination. 

In certain cases purpura is of toxic origin and may follow the 
administration of such drugs as quinine, belladonna, iodide of 
potassium, etc., and in another group seems to be associated with 
hepatic or pancreatic lesions. It thus seems possible that in some 
cases of Henoch's purpura the abdominal disturbances may be the 
cause of the illness, and on general grounds the condition of the 
alimentary tract should be given particular attention. 

It is always wise, at the onset of an attack, to ensure that the 
bowel is emptied of any irritant by the administration of a 
laxative, unless the diarrhoea has been severe and continued, 
or haemorrhage has occurred. Milk is in these cases the most 
suitable food, and may be diluted or predigested, if necessary. 

In the sub-acute cases and in those where intestinal symptoms 
are absent, the dietary should be bland and unirritating, but the 
maximum of food that is possible should be given to replace, so 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 649 

far as may be, the loss of blood. The finer farinacea, Benger's 
and Mellin's foods, eggs, white fish, etc., can often be utilized. 

During convalescence a more nourishing diet should be ordered, 
the items consisting of the " fresh " foods, and containing a 
suitable proportion of the red meats. 

The diet between attacks should be carefully supervised, and 
the ingestion of irritating articles prevented ; but it must be 
acknowledged that the most careful regulation often fails to pre- 
vent a recurrence of the attacks, and their origin must be sought 
elsewhere. 



ADDISON'S DISEASE 

The symptoms in Addison's disease are mainly of a general 
kind, the result of the altered nutrition which the loss of the 
suprarenal function entails, and local disturbances are secondary 
to the general asthenia. 

In the earlier stages abdominal symptoms are rarely experi- 
enced, though anorexia may be extreme and persistent ; but later 
on both gastric and intestinal symptoms may be severe, and they 
are not infrequently the immediate cause of the fatal issue. They 
often occur in a paroxysmal manner, and may be excited by 
apparently trivial causes. 

Nausea and vomiting may thus be violent and repeated, and 
interfere greatly with the taking of food ; while diarrhoea is 
apt to occur spontaneously and may follow the use of laxative 
medicines, or the ingestion of indigestible articles of food. 

Care should therefore be taken to prevent the possibility 
of such disturbances. 

The treatment of gastric or intestinal symptoms must be 
conducted on general lines, and has already been considered in 
sufficient detail. 



THE THYROID AL DISEASES 

It has been known for long that the origin of endemic goitre 
may be closely associated with a particular water, and that the 
disease may disappear with the introduction of a fresh and 



650 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

pure supply ; but all the attempts to bring it into relation 
with particular mineral constituents have so far failed, and the 
available evidence points strongly in favour of some infective 
agent. 

Captain McCarrison's recent observations in Gilgit and Chitral 
have led him to this conclusion. The disease is endemic in these 
parts, and villages with the same water supply suffer compara- 
tively from it, while others under similar circumstances, but with 
a different water supply may be wholly exempt. In a village 
where goitre was unknown, it became endemic shortly after the 
arrival of a goitrous family, all the other social conditions re- 
maining unchanged ; and its incidence along a common water 
supply became increased the further the village from the source, 
presumably as the result of continued contamination from affected 
communities upstream. 

There is, however, evidence that infection may arise in other 
ways. The use of boiled water may in some cases be a sufficient 
protective, but in other instances wholly fails, and goitre may, as 
in an instance narrated by Dr. Mackenzie, be endemic in one 
village and not in another, though the water supply is common 
to both. Goitre too seems to attack in particular communities 
whose social circuntstances are poor, and to disappear with the 
introduction of improved sanitation. 

From the individual standpoint goitre is more prevalent among 
the poorer classes and among persons engaged in agricultural 
pursuits ; and is, for example, practically unknown among the 
European residents in Gilgit and Chitral. There is there a 
distinct seasonal prevalence of the disease. 

The evidence then is strongly in favour of an infective origin 
of endemic goitre, and points to the alimentary tract as the 
probable site of entrance of the parasite. But investigations have 
so far failed to isolate the active agent, though organisms have 
been found in the faeces of goitrous patients, and recovery in 
recent cases follows the administration of thymol. 

It is at least possible that exophthalmic goitre may prove to 
be the result of a similar infection, though evidence is so far 
almost wholly wanting. Myxcedema and cretinism may also 
presumably be in some cases associated with an infective etiology, 







DIET IN DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 651 

though other causes have been shown to produce functional 
destruction of the gland. 

It seems reasonable, on the evidence available, to make cer- 
tain that infective agents no longer gain access to the alimentary 
tract in cases of endemic goitre and Graves' disease ; and even 
in the myxcedemas similar precautions should be observed, though 
in all probability the damage to the gland is already irretriev- 
able. A pure water supply is the essential factor, and rain water or 
boiled water should be utilized, not only as a beverage but for 
culinary and domestic uses, until the infected supply can be re- 
placed. Captain McCarrison's evidence of other possible methods 
of infection should lead to renewed precautions with regard to 
the possible contamination of other articles of diet. In all cases 
removal to non-affected areas is preferable, at any rate for a time. 

The appetite in the thyroidal diseases is apt to be defective, 
and it may be, especially in cretins, perverted. A due supervision 
of the diet must be maintained in consequence. Alimentary 
symptoms are, as a rule, absent in cases of goitre and the 
myxcedemas, though constipation may require attention. 

In exophthalmic goitre, however, both gastric and intestinal 
symptoms may be severe, and may even lead rapidly to death. 
Attacks of vomiting and diarrhoea occur, sometimes in conjunc- 
tion, sometimes isolated. Nausea may be intense and vomiting 
persistent and violent, following the ingestion of everything, 
whether fluid or solid ; epigastric pain is sometimes acute, or, 
on the other hand, may be absent. The diarrhoea is usually 
painless, but large loose stools may be passed frequently, and if 
continued, prostration becomes extreme. The tachycardia be- 
comes exaggerated, the cardiac power fails, and death ensues 
from cardiac exhaustion. Death may occur within four or five 
days, but the duration of fatal attacks is usually longer. 

In some instances the symptoms follow notable indiscretions 
in diet, but in others their origin is obscure. Acetonaemia often 
co-exists, and both acetone and diacetic acid may be recognized 
in the urine. 

The diet in these cases then must be carefully regulated, and 
the ingestion of irritating food-stuffs prevented. The food should 
be bland and easily digested, and any minor digestive symp- 



652 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

toms should be promptly attended to. Thirst is sometimes 
extreme, and the constant imbibition of fluids seems at times 
provocative of such attacks. In cases with acute gastric or 
intestinal symptoms treatment is rarely of much avail. It 
should be conducted on the lines already laid down. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 



CHAPTER XXII 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 

BY J. ROSE BRADFORD, M.D., F.R.S. 

General considerations. The place of diet in the treatment 
of affections of the kidney is one of considerable importance 
inasmuch as so many renal affections run a prolonged and chronic 
course and many of them are not capable of being very directly 
influenced by drugs. Further, a large number of renal affections 
are of toxic origin and dependent upon the action of poisons on 
the renal elements and on the blood vessels, and some of these 
toxic agents may be consumed as food, and thus diet is of import- 
ance not only in the treatment but also in the prevention of 
renal disease. Again the composition of the urine can be pro- 
foundly affected by diet and even such a fundamental character- 
istic as the reaction of the urine can be altered by suitable diet. 
The part played by changes in the composition of the urine in 
the production of renal disease is no doubt to some extent uncer- 
tain, but at any rate the composition of the urine is a factor of 
considerable importance in some affections as, for example, 
calculus disease. It may well be that the production of a 
calculus is not solely dependent on the amount of the particular 
calculus forming ingredient present in the urine, but still in 
all cases this must be a factor of some importance. Thus the 
formation of a uric acid calculus may perhaps take place when 
the actual percentage amount of uric acid in the urine is not 
necessarily high, yet the formation of such a calculus in any 
given patient may be influenced to some extent by the quantity 
of uric acid present, and perhaps still more so by the form in 
which it is present, in other words, the relation of the uric acid 
to the other salts of the urine, as for example, the phosphates 



656 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

and the chlorides. Modifications in the composition of the urine 
may therefore affect such a process as the formation of a calculus, 
not only by increasing or diminishing the amount of the calculus 
forming ingredient present but also by modifying its chemical 
relationships with other urinary constituents and especially 
its solubility. 

An excessive meat diet may lead to a deposition of uric acid 
in the urine, not only by increasing the amount of uric acid 
excreted, owing to the large quantity of purin bases present in 
the food, but this diet may also bring about a deposition 
of uric acid as a result of increasing the acidity of the urine, 
since the meat food will lead to an increase in the acidity of the 
urine, dependent on an increased excretion of acid phosphate 
of soda. This illustrates very well the complex effect that may 
follow a given diet. These alterations in the composition of 
the urine are produced directly, owing to the presence in the food 
of certain substances, or owing to certain bodies, e.g. uric acid, 
being formed as the result of the normal metabolism of the 
food. Indirect effects, however, are perhaps of greater import- 
ance and may also follow the use of certain diets under abnormal 
conditions. A familiar instance is afforded by the study of 
gout, there would seem to be but little doubt that gout, at any 
rate in some individuals, is brought about by a particular diet, 
and in the gouty an attack of acute gout may be seen to follow 
certain indiscretions in diet, and it is at any rate possible that 
gout is associated with and dependent on the production during 
metabolism of abnormal and toxic substances. These toxins 
subsequently produce organic disease of various organs and 
amongst others the kidneys. A better illustration may perhaps 
be afforded by some instances of oxaluria. A certain degree of 
oxaluria may be produced in the healthy by the ingestion of cer- 
tain articles of food, more especially rhubarb,' but there are a 
number of individuals where large quantities of oxalates are 
passed in the urine associated with disturbance of the gastric 
functions and the presence of a certain degree of dilatation of 
the stomach and fermentation of its contents. In these instances 
the oxalic acid is not present as such in the food, but is formed 
as the result of decomposition in the stomach, and the oxaluria 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 657 

results from the absorption of these bodies from the gastro- 
intestinal tract. The diet in these patients produces oxaluria, 
although in the healthy it would fail to do so, the urinary effects 
being entirely dependent on the abnormal decomposition of the 
food. Such an oxaluria may be treated by dietetic measures, 
although these must necessarily be somewhat different from those 
employed where the oxaluria is merely dependent on the inges- 
tion of oxalates as such. 

Thus it may be said that diet may affect the urinary excretion 
in one of three ways. It may modify the composition of the 
urine owing to the direct excretion of substances present in the 
food as such, as for example, the increased acidity of the urine 
on a flesh diet dependent on the excretion of increased quantities 
of acid phosphate of soda. Secondly, the composition of the 
urine may be modified as the result of the excretion of increased 
or diminished quantities of the normal products of metabolism 
of the food constituents as, for example, the increased excretion 
of urea and of uric acid seen in the flesh diet ; and thirdly, the 
urine may be modified in its composition owing to the presence 
of substances formed as a result of abnormal metabolism of the 
food constituents owing to the presence of some pathological 
condition, e.g. the oxaluria in gastric dilatation. 

In employing diet in the treatment of renal disease, it is im- 
portant to bear in mind that the influence of the diet on the renal 
lesion may be either direct or indirect. 

Renal diseases cannot very well be regarded as a whole from 
the point of view of their treatment by diet, inasmuch as there 
are such great differences in the effects produced by different 
renal lesions. Not only is this true with regard to different 
diseases, but also, to a certain extent, with regard to one and 
the same disease at different periods of its course. Dropsy is 
present in some renal diseases, absent in others, and even in 
the diseases where it is usually present, it may be absent during 
long periods of time. A diet suitable where dropsy is absent 
may not be suitable where it is present. The same is true of 
other phenomena, such as uraemia. Putting aside such con- 
ditions as these, renal lesions may be divided into the following 
groups for the purpose of diet and treatment : First, nephritis 

42 



658 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

in its acute form ; secondly, chronic nephritis ; thirdly, granular 
kidney ; fourthly, amyloid kidney ; fifthly, calculous disease ; 
and lastly, other renal affections which may be grouped either 
with acute or chronic nephritis. There is no great difficulty 
with reference to most of these groups, but there is some in regard 
to chronic nephritis, inasmuch as so many different lesions are 
included under this term. In one variety dropsy may be pre- 
sent, together with other severe symptoms, and the patient may 
be profoundly ill ; in a second form dropsy may be absent, but 
albuminuria, with profound disturbance of the general nutrition, 
and possibly ursemic symptoms may be present ; and lastly, in 
a third variety the patient may present few or no symptoms 
other than an albuminuria persistent and prolonged. All these 
different forms are frequently included under the general term 
of chronic nephritis, but there is at any rate a profound differ- 
ence between the third group and the other two, inasmuch as 
in the former the albuminuria is practically the only marked effect 
present. It is obvious that all these three categories of cases 
of chronic nephritis cannot be satisfactorily, treated on one uni- 
form plan, but it is really in the third group of cases that the 
greatest difficulty in determining the course of dietetic or other 
treatment arises. 

In many of these cases of persistent albuminuria the con- 
dition is not one of progressive disease, but rather the result of 
a former attack of nephritis, and such patients often live for 
many years without suffering from any marked impairment 
of general health, although doubtless they run considerable risks 
of contracting fresh attacks of nephritis. This class of case 
illustrates very well that treatment should not be determined 
solely by considerations of the state of the urine, or even by 
the amount of albumin present. 

In most renal diseases the excretory activity of the 
kidney is impaired to a greater or less extent, and this is re- 
vealed by the small amount of nitrogenous extractives present 
in the urine, and by the dilute character of the urine with its 
well-known low specific gravity, so characteristic of chronic 
renal disease. The imperfect elimination leads to the retention 
not only of the nitrogenous extractives, but also of the salts of 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 659 

the urine, and it is possible that this retention may be a factor 
of great importance in determining the occurrence of some of 
the complications of renal disease, as, for example, dropsy. 
Too much attention is sometimes paid to the retention of nitro- 
genous extractives, and but little to that of the retention of the 
salts. In the dietetic treatment of the disease it may be of 
greater importance to regulate the ingestion of the saline con- 
stituents of the food than to concentrate attention on the 
cutting down of proteins. In many renal diseases the quantity 
of water is also considerably diminished, and in some, suppression 
may occur ; but even when the quantity of urinary water is 
normal or above the normal in amount, the excretory activity 
of the organ may be greatly impaired, as is shown by the dilute 
urine that is excreted. This is more especially true of chronic 
degenerative diseases of the kidney, especially granular kidney 
and cystic degeneration, and it is also the case in other chronic 
inflammatory affections where there is a large overgrowth of 
fibrous tissue. 

Another point of considerable importance is the fact that 
the excretion is also often extremely slow, so that substances 
introduced into the blood stream that normally appear in the 
urine within a few minutes are not excreted until after the lapse 
of half an hour, or even longer. This delay in the excretion is 
often an index of the degree of inefficiency of the excretory 
mechanism. The deficiency of the urine in solid constituents 
in chronic renal disease affords clear evidence of imperfect 
excretory activity, but the problem in the case of the excretion 
of water is a little more complex, owing to the relationship 
existing between the production of renal dropsy and the flow 
of urine. This is also a point of considerable importance in the 
dietetic treatment of renal disease. Renal dropsy is sometimes 
looked upon as directly dependent on the deficient excretion 
of urinary water, but on the other hand there are many who 
consider that the deficient excretion is the result rather than 
the cause of the dropsy. It is obvious that the advisability of 
regulating the amount of fluid in the diet must depend largely 
upon which of these two views is accepted. The incidence of 
dropsy in renal disease is always accompanied by a diminution 



660 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

in the quantity of urinary water excreted, and conversely a 
subsidence of the dropsy is accompanied by an increased urinary 
flow. Dropsy is however only present in some renal diseases, 
more especially in some forms of acute and chronic nephritis, 
but it is not an invariable accompaniment of either of these 
diseases. Further complete suppression of urine may occur in 
a considerable number of renal diseases without the development 
of any dropsy. This is not only true of the suppression accom- 
panying calculous obstruction, but also with the suppression, 
partial or complete, that is so often seen in the more severe forms 
of acute nephritis. These facts are strong arguments in favour 
of the view that the diminution in the flow of urine, so constantly 
associated with the development of dropsy, is rather a result 
than the cause of the dropsy. At the same time it must be 
admitted that, especially in acute nephritis, the state of the 
circulation in the kidney, and especially in the glomeruli, is not 
favourable to the elimination of water by the organ, and that 
it must be undesirable to produce a condition of plethora by the 
ingestion of large quantities of fluid. 

In most renal diseases, but especially in acute and chronic 
nephritis, a toxaemic state exists, and this toxaemia is doubtless 
in part dependent on the retention of normal products of meta- 
bolism which ought to be excreted, but it is possible that, owing 
to disordered metabolism, other abnormal substances are also 
present in the blood stream. Just as dropsy does not neces- 
sarily occur as the result of complete urinary suppression, so 
uraemia is not necessarily seen in the same conditions. Com- 
plete suppression, occurring as a result of calculous obstruction, 
or in the rare cases where a single kidney has been excised, or 
where the circulation has suddenly been arrested as the result 
of thrombosis in the renal arteries of both kidneys, is not fol- 
lowed by the development of the ordinary type of uraemia 
that is such a familiar complication of acute and chronic 
nephritis and of granular and cystic degeneration of the kidneys. 
It would thus seem that uraemia can scarcely be looked upon 
as due to the toxic action of some normal constituent of the 
urine that is retained as the result of deficient renal elimination. 
It may well be, however, that the cause of uraemia is some toxic 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS GfH 

substance formed as a result of abnormal metabolism. In- 
efficient excretion may play a part in the development of uraemia, 
and a possible hypothesis is that, as the result of such inefficient 
excretion, an abnormal toxic substance is retained. 

The toxaemia of renal disease shows itself not only in the 
development of uraemia, but also by other manifestations, as, 
for instance, the well known gastro-enteritis that is so frequently 
present in these diseases. There is some evidence to show that 
where the excretory efficiency of the kidney is impaired, excretion 
of some of the urinary constituents, as, for example, urea, may 
take place from the gastric and intestinal mucosa and be 
associated with symptoms of severe vomiting and diarrhoea. 

The presence of toxaemia as the result of renal disease must 
necessarily be a factor of considerable importance in regulating 
dietetic treatment. 

Malnutrition, shown by wasting, anaemia, and frequently the- 
development of a regular cachexia, is the frequent accompani- 
ment of the more serious, and especially the chronic, forms of 
renal disease. This malnutrition is doubtless in part dependent 
on mere loss of appetite and on the gastric and intestinal com- 
plications that are so often present. But great wasting may 
be seen as the result of chronic renal disease, and especially, 
perhaps, as the result of certain forms of chronic nephritis and 
granular kidney, without the presence of marked vomiting or 
other gastro-intestinal symptoms. This malnutrition, together 
with such a phenomenon as pigmentation, which is also not 
uncommon in chronic renal disease, would also seem to show 
that these maladies produce in some ill-understood manner 
grave disturbances of the nutritive processes of the body. The 
importance of considering these factors in the treatment of the 
disease, and especially in the dietetic treatment, cannot be over- 
estimated. There is often a tendency to regulate the treatment 
by considerations based largely, and sometimes entirely, on the 
state of the urine. Thus the diet may be cut down, owing to 
a high degree of albuminuria present, and this notwithstanding 
the fact that the patient's aspect and body weight may show 
grave impairment of nutrition. Very often much better results 
are obtained by not concentrating the attention solely on the 



662 

state of the urine, but rather by directing the treatment, and 
especially the diet, to remedying if possible the malnutrition. 

Albuminuria in greater or less degree is usually present in 
renal disease, and in some renal lesions the quantity of albumin 
lost daily is very considerable, and may amount to as much as 
40 grms. per diem. In most diseases, however, the loss is much 
less than this, but still, inasmuch as many of these maladies 
are of very prolonged duration, there is a considerable wastage 
of the proteins of the body. That this is the case is shown by 
the low percentage of protein matter present in the blood of 
patients suffering from chronic renal disease, even where dropsy 
is absent, and there is no fallacy owing to the presence of 
hydraemic plethora. 

The large amount of albumin present in the urine has often 
led to attempts being made to restrict the loss by diet and by 
medicine. In some instances dietetic treatment, and especially 
perhaps the administration of a milk diet, is followed by an 
apparent great diminution in the daily loss. In some instances 
this diminution is more apparent than real, and is really de- 
pendent on an increased flow of urine due to the liquid diet 
and large quantity of fluid ingested causing a percentage diminu- 
tion, but the total quantity lost in the twenty-four hours may 
remain much the same as with a drier and more solid diet. 

Albuminuria is a most important means of recognizing the 
presence and sometimes the variety of renal disease present, 
but the degree of albuminuria is not a safe guide for dietetic 
treatment. This is more especially so as in some of the most 
serious renal diseases, e.g. granular kidney and some forms of 
chronic nephritis, the albuminuria is slight in amount, and it 
is even possible for serious and fatal renal disease to be present 
without any albuminuria ; this absence of albumin no doubt 
is often only temporary, but still this fact may cause very serious 
errors of diagnosis and of treatment. In most instances the 
degree of albuminuria is only roughly estimated by the amount 
of deposit in a given sample, and observations on the twenty- 
four hours' urine are but rarely undertaken. This is most mis- 
leading, as the degree of albuminuria, even in chronic renal 
disease, may vary within wide limits at different periods of 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 663 

the day, and estimation should always be based on an examina- 
tion of the twenty-four hours' sample. 

Many renal diseases are accompanied by secondary effects 
in the cardiovascular system. High tension, cardiac hypertrophy 
And arterial degeneration are frequent accompaniments, especi- 
ally of chronic nephritis and of granular kidney. High tension 
may, however, exist without any notable degree of arterial degen- 
eration, and further, the arterial degeneration when present may 
not be universal in its distribution, thus in some instances though 
the vessels of the body generally present marked changes charac- 
teristic of arterio-sclerosis the cerebral vessels may be relatively 
healthy. In other cases, on the other hand, they may be pro- 
foundly sclerosed. 

In determining the treatment of the disease it is important 
to take into consideration the degree of high tension present and 
also the presence or absence of marked arterial lesions. Some 
of the most serious complications of renal disease are dependent 
on the presence of these lesions. Thus epileptiform seizures 
of great severity may be due apparently to arterial spasm associ- 
ated with high tension, and such a serious lesion as cerebral 
haemorrhage may owe its origin to the arterial degeneration 
associated with renal disease. 

In regulating the diet in renal disease attention must be 
directed to all the factors mentioned above, and although the 
state of the urine must be allowed due weight, the effects of 
the renal disease on the circulation and on the general state of 
nutrition must also be considered. The main objects aimed at 
should be : (1) To diminish the work of the kidney so far as is 
possible ; (2) to maintain the general nutrition and to counter- 
act, if possible, the weakness and wasting present ; (3) to regu- 
late, so far as is possible, by diet the arterial tension ; (4) to be 
careful that the diet should not be such as to promote a condi- 
tion of hydrsemic plethora which may not only tend to aggra- 
vate any dropsy present, but may also seriously affect the circu- 
lation, and especially the heart, owing to the frequent presence 
of cardiac dilatation in nephritis. 

It is clear that in different renal diseases these varying factors 
are of greater importance in some than in others ; thus in calculous 



664 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

disease the main efforts must be directed to modifying the com- 
position of the urine ; in acute nephritis the great aim will be 
to diminish the work of the kidney ; in chronic nephritis and in 
granular kidney attention will often have to be directed mainly 
to the state of nutrition, the regulation of arterial tension'and 
the amelioration or prevention of dropsy. 

It must be borne in mind in all the attempts made to diminish 
the work of the kidney that a considerable proportion of the 
nitrogenous extractives of the urine are derived from'the break- 
ing down of the tissues of the body and that no limitation in diet 
will affect the quantity of this portion of the nitrogenous excreta, 
and that therefore to diminish the diet for long periods of time 
owing to a deficient excretion of urea may be followed by 
aggravation of the patient's general weakness. Further, the low 
percentage of urea in the urine is not entirely dependent on imper- 
fect elimination as a varying proportion of protein matter repre- 
senting non-metabolised protein is passed out in the urine. Again 
these patients have often a poor appetite and may suffer from 
diarrhoea and vomiting and these will also tend to diminish the 
metabolism of protein and the excretion of nitrogen. The diminu- 
tion of the protein ingesta is especially indicated in acute renal 
disease such as acute nephritis, and in this malady there can be 
no objection to reducing the protein taken to as small an amount 
as possible or even, in some cases, to withhold it altogether for 
short periods of time. In chronic nephritis, on the other hand, 
much care should be taken in determining accurately the signifi- 
cance of the scanty urea excretion that may be present, due 
weight being attached to the presence of such symptoms as 
diarrhoea and vomiting, and the degree of albuminuria present 
and the amount of nitrogen ingested in the form of protein. 
When all these factors are duly considered it will often be found 
that although the percentage amount of urea and other extract- 
ives is low, the total amount excreted in the twenty-four hours 
is not such as to imply that there is necessarily any material 
retention of these substances in the blood stream, since the 
quantity of urine is often much increased. On the other hand, 
in severe cases of chronic renal disease and especially in those 
accompanied with uraemic symptoms there may not only be 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 665 

very considerable retention of these normal nitrogenous extract- 
ives, but they may also be present in undue amount in the blood 
owing to increased production. 

The regulation of diet is probably most important of all in 
cases of chronic disease such as granular kidney where, notwith- 
standing the appearance of health, the excretory activity of 
the kidneys may be very seriously impaired. Many of these 
patients have often been large meat-eaters, and owing to their 
passing considerable quantities of urine it is often difficult to 
persuade them that there is any serious renal lesion. In such 
cases the deficient excretion of urea is a factor of the first import- 
ance in regulating the diet since none of the conditions men- 
tioned above, such as diarrhoea, vomiting, or marked albuminuria, 
are present to minimize the significance of the deficient urea 
secretion. 

Although the proteins are the food constituents on which 
most stress is laid in regulating the diet of renal disease, the 
ingestion of common salt is also a matter of considerable import- 
ance. It would seem to be clearly established that the taking 
of large quantities of salt may play a very considerable part 
in the degree of development of dropsy in certain renal diseases, 
especially chronic nephritis. Where dropsy is present it often 
increases materially in amount when a diet rich in salt is given. 
This applies not only to the dropsy of renal disease, but also to 
that of cardiac affections. Further, it can be shown that in 
chronic parenchymatous or chronic diffuse nephritis the quantity 
of sodium chloride present in the urine may sometimes be small, 
and this is the chronic renal lesion that is most often accom- 
panied by dropsy. On the other hand, in granular kidney the 
excretion of sodium chloride may be large in amount and 
some have attributed the increased urinary excretion to this 
factor. The diminution of salt in the food may lead to the 
most marked improvement in, or even subsidence of, dropsy 
in cases where it is present, and very often better results are 
obtained by treating such cases with a relatively dry salt-free 
diet than by prescribing a milk diet as is so often done in a 
routine fashion. 

A question of considerable difficulty is that of the admin Is- 



666 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tration of simple fluids. There is much to be said in their favour 
as flushing agents, more especially in some inflammatory affec- 
tions of the kidney where the tubules are blocked to a greater 
or less degree by detritus and products of degeneration, such as 
casts and blood corpuscles, etc. Water in considerable quantities 
is often advised as a diuretic. On the other hand, the state 
of the kidney may be such that the elimination even of water 
is carried on with great difficulty and the administration of large 
quantities may lead to the development of a hydrsemic plethora 
that tends to aggravate any dropsy or any cardiac dilatation 
that may be present. 

The importance of cardiac dilatation in acute and chronic 
renal disease is often under-estimated. In acute and sub- 
acute nephritis death may result from cardiac dilatation in cases 
where dropsy is not marked and where the ursemic manifesta- 
tions are only slight. It is perhaps in this type of case that the 
most serious risks are run from aggravating the condition of 
plethora by the administration of excessive quantities of fluid. 
Cardiac dilatation running a more chronic course is also a very 
familiar feature in chronic renal disease associated with more 
or less extensive cardio-vascular degeneration. In these cir- 
cumstances the regulation of the quantity of fluid ingested may 
also be of great importance. 



ACUTE NEPHRITIS 

From the standpoint of treatment two varieties of acute 
nephritis may be recognized. In the one, dropsy is present 
in addition to marked changes in the composition of the urine. 
In the other dropsy is absent and unless uraemia or such compli- 
cations as secondary inflammations develop, the main phenomena 
presented are the morbid changes in the urine. Although these 
two forms of nephritis are closely related, the one does not neces- 
sarily pass into the other, nor is the one necessarily a less danger- 
ous malady than the other. In some cases of acute nephritis 
death may result from the severity of the local lesion without 
the development of any dropsy whatever, and on the other 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 667 

hand, in the dropsical cases, complete subsidence of all the 
pathological phenomena may take place in the course of time. 
In all forms of acute nephritis, however, the main indication in 
dietetic treatment is to diminish to the utmost the work ol the 
kidney. Unfortunately, acute nephritis is of very uncertain 
duration, and hence the diet cannot be restricted to the full 
extent desirable for any very prolonged period. There is much 
to be said in favour of cutting off all food for twenty-four to 
thirty-six hours at the onset of a really acute nephritis unless 
this complication occurs in the course of some infective disease 
where the general strength of the patient has already been much 
diminished, and where it is not desirable therefore to further 
weaken him. In many cases the restriction to this extreme ex- 
tent is not difficult owing to the great distaste for food and the 
presence of considerable nausea and vomiting. Such patients 
should simply be allowed water in moderate amount during the 
twenty-four or thirty-six hours during which the food is stopped. 
The bulk of cases of so-called acute nephritis are not of a suffi- 
ciently severe type to require this treatment, which is really 
mainly indicated in those severe cases of acute nephritis which 
are ushered in with almost complete suppression or, at any rate, 
with the secretion of a very scanty highly blood-stained urine. 
Although the water is beneficial from the point of view of flush- 
ing out the kidney and getting rid of the detritus, care must be 
taken not to administer it in excessive amount, as it is precisely 
in this form of acute nephritis that the excretion of water by the 
kidney is most seriously compromised. In cases of acute nephritis 
where dropsy is present and where usually the suppression of urine 
is not developed to such a high degree as in the first type of case, 
there is not the same necessity for cutting off all food. The 
diminution in the excretion of urine in the dropsical type of case 
is, in part, dependent on the development of the dropsy, and 
although no doubt the excretory activity of the kidney is more 
or less seriously impaired, yet it is not so extensively affected 
as in the first type of case. 

In the anasarcous variety of acute nephritis and in the other 
less severe cases of acute nephritis, the diet should consist essen- 
tially of milk. It is desirable, however, not to give this in large 



668 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

quantities as it is essential to maintain the principle of cutting 
down the work of the kidney to as great an extent as possible. 
Three pints of milk per diem is probably about the minimum 
amount required by a normal adult, and even on this quantity 
it is impossible to maintain normal nutrition for any prolonged 
period. In acute nephritis, however, far smaller quantities 
than this may be given, at any rate for a time, as no great harm 
will result from a temporary cutting down of the diet below the 
normal quantity required. Hence the diet may be restricted 
with advantage to one pint or one pint and a half of milk in the 
twenty-four hours. In many cases there is such distaste for 
food and so much nausea that there is no advantage in attempt- 
ing to increase the quantity or the kind of food given ; but in 
others where these symptoms are not marked there can be no 
harm in giving food-stuffs such as carbo-hydrates and even fats 
which do not increase to any material extent the work of the 
kidney. Thus there is much to be said in favour of diluting 
the milk with barley-water or gruel, or even if the patient desires 
it allowing bread and butter in small quantities. Better re- 
sults will be obtained by giving a moderate quantity of milk 
with the addition of small quantities of bread or of bread and 
butter than by increasing simply the quantity of milk. In those 
cases where dropsy is marked and where there is only diminution 
in the amount of urine rather than actual suppression some 
departure from the milk diet may be advisable, and such patients 
may take larger quantities of bread and butter, or even vegetable 
food, such as mashed potato, if they have sufficient appetite 
or desire and taste for such food. Several observers have ob- 
tained good results in the treatment of acute nephritis by giving 
a relatively dry diet of this type than by the indiscriminate 
administration of milk. Better results still are obtained if 
salt is entirely eliminated from the food. This, however, is 
difficult as it involves the necessity of special methods of prepara- 
tion as, for example, production of a salt-free bread and the 
restriction of salt in the food is perhaps of more importance in 
the treatment of chronic than in the treatment of acute renal 
disease. 

In all cases where the food given is fluid, as for example, 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 669 

milk and gruel, care should be taken that the total amount of 
fluid given in the twenty-four hours is not unduly large in cases 
where there is obvious difficulty in the excretion of water as 
shown either by the state of the urine, or by the presence of 
dropsy. Various fruits may be given even in acute renal disease, 
as very often they will give much relief by obviating thirst and by 
relieving the unpleasant taste in the mouth that is so often associ- 
ated with the different forms of acute and chronic renal disease. 
Fruit juices are also of considerable nutritive value, and although 
many fruits contain diuretic substances it is not probable that 
these will produce any injurious effect in the small quantities 
that are likely to be taken in the course of such a malady as acute 
nephritis. The juice obtained from pine-apples, peaches, grapes, 
oranges, grape-fruit, are all useful. On the other hand, meat 
extracts, animal broths, beef-tea, should not be given. The 
nutritive value of many of these is very low unless they are made 
in such a fashion as to retain the protein constituents of the flesh, 
and if this be done there is no class of food-stuff that is more unsuit- 
able for the treatment of acute renal disease. Such extracts are 
always rich in nitrogenous extractives and salts and as already 
stated, may contain considerable quantities of protein ; thus they 
greatly increase the work of the kidney and should on no account 
be allowed. 

Patients often object to milk, more especially on account of 
the nausea that is such a constant feature in renal disease and 
further, in many instances, vomiting may also be present. If 
these symptoms are marked it would probably be advisable to 
partially digest the milk prior to its administration, and the best 
results are frequently obtained by pancreatizing a mixture of 
equal parts of milk and gruel. 

Alcohol should not be given in acute renal disease unless 
there is urgent need for its administration owing to the develop- 
ment of some complication requiring cardiac stimulation. 

With the subsidence of a nephritis the diet can be gradually 
increased in amount and more solid food in the form of bread and 
butter, bread and milk, milk puddings, can be given. 



670 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



CHRONIC NEPHRITIS 

In the dietetic treatment of chronic nephritis we meet with 
the greatest difficulties because many factors have to be taken 
into consideration. In the first place the presence or absence 
of complications such as dropsy, uraemia, and the more serious 
effects produced by high tension. Secondly, the degree of im- 
pairment of the general nutrition as shown by wasting, cachexia, 
and the presence of anaemia, is a point of the greatest import- 
ance. Lastly, the variety of the renal affection that is present 
and the state of the urine, both as regards quantity, specific 
gravity, and to some extent the mere amount of albumin present 
must also receive attention. 

The presence of certain complications such as uraemia and 
secondary inflammations is an indication for a diet similar to that 
ordered in acute nephritis except that in long-standing cases it 
is clearly impossible to maintain such a low diet as that ordered 
in acute nephritis for prolonged periods of time. Still little can 
be given except milk, gruel, bread, fruit, and possibly in some 
instances, milk puddings. Animal broths and meat ex- 
tracts are probably still more inadvisable in this type of case 
than in acute nephritis. In cases where uraemia, and more 
especially uraemia of a gastro-intestinal type, is present, the 
food will probably have to be artificially digested and given in 
very small quantities. The treatment of these cases, however, 
is necessarily very unsatisfactory, inasmuch as where uraemia 
supervenes in chronic renal disease the malady is usually far 
advanced. 

The dietetic treatment of dropsy is more successful than that 
of the other complications of renal disease just alluded to. Dropsy 
is seen in chronic nephritis in two main forms. Thus it is a 
frequent accompaniment of chronic tubular or chronic diffuse 
nephritis and then has the ordinary characteristics of renal 
dropsy. In cases of contracted kidney the dropsy is sometimes 
of a slightly different type and resembles that seen in cardiac 
disease. From the point of view of diet no distinction need be 
made between these two varieties. The usual diet ordered for 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 671 

these patients is a milk diet, and not uncommonly they are re- 
stricted entirely to milk, which is given in considerable quantities 
of from 3 to 5 pints a day. There are many arguments in 
support of such a diet. Thus it is readily digestible in cases 
where there is no natural disinclination to milk, and in addition 
many of the constituents of milk have a distinct diuretic action 
and the flow of urine under such a diet even in advanced chronic 
renal disease is often materially increased. The percentage 
amount of albumin in the urine falls and it cannot be denied 
that many of the symptoms of the disease undergo amelioration 
and cases are on record where after prolonged administration 
of such a diet there has been notable improvement. On the 
other hand there are certain practical and theoretical objections 
to such a diet being ordered as a matter of routine in all cases 
of chronic renal disease accompanied by dropsy. In the first 
place, many patients are very intolerant and dislike an exclusive 
milk diet, and this perhaps is especially the case in those 
instances of chronic renal disease where there may be much 
nausea and anorexia and dislike to all food. Again, it is difficult 
to maintain the body-weight and the normal nutrition in an 
adult on a milk diet for a prolonged period. Such food is unduly 
rich in protein and contains insufficient carbo-hydrate and fatty 
materials and theoretically an excessive protein diet is unsuit- 
able for chronic renal disease. Further, where large quantities 
of milk are taken there must be considerable risk of producing 
hydrsemic plethora and thus there may be a danger of aggra- 
vating any existing dropsy. All these objections are of consider- 
able force and there is another dependent on the richness of milk 
in saline ingredients and thus there is the further danger of aggra- 
vating the dropsy owing to the retention of sodium chloride 
if the elimination of this by the kidneys is deficient. The risk 
of milk containing an excess of protein matter loses some of its 
force, owing to the loss of albumin, and hence the waste of protein 
matter that is such a constant accompaniment of chronic nephritis 
accompanied with dropsy. Although some patients with chronic 
renal disease improve under milk diet there can be no question 
that a very large number do not and that notwithstanding the 
increase in the flow of urine, and the diminution in the percent- 



672 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

age amount of albumin present, there is no real improvement 
when the patient is tested either by his own feelings or by the 
state of the general nutrition. As already mentioned above the 
diminution in the albuminuria is often more apparent than real 
owing to the increased flow of urine resulting from the fluid in- 
gested. This fallacy of observation is one of the reasons why 
attention should be directed to the general condition of the 
patient rather than to the mere analysis of the urine alone. It 
is probable that an exclusive milk diet is mainly of service in 
chronic nephritis where complications are present or where there 
is reason to think that sub-acute nephritis is superadded to the 
chronic disease. 

Where no complications are present it is probable that better 
results can be attained by a modified diet containing larger 
quantities of carbo-hydrates and for this purpose farinaceous 
foods prepared with milk may be given with advantage such as 
bread, corn-flour, rice, etc. 

The question of more fundamental importance, however, 
is whether better results cannot be obtained in cases where dropsy 
is present by the administration of a drier food and also by 
restriction in the ingestion of sodium chloride. Some striking 
results have been obtained, especially in France, in the treat- 
ment of chronic renal disease by the administration of a diet 
containing considerable quantities of vegetables prepared 
and cooked and taken without salt. In many such cases there 
is really no objection to the giving of eggs, although there is 
much prejudice against this article of diet in renal disease. Egg 
albumen is readily digestible and very large quantities must 
be taken in order to produce any irritating effect on the kidney, 
and the albuminuria that results from the indiscriminate adminis- 
tration of raw eggs is an albuminuria apparently produced by 
a toxic action on the renal structures. It may therefore be 
advisable in chronic nephritis accompanied by dropsy to re- 
place an exclusive milk diet by one consisting of bread and 
milk, eggs, arrowroot, rice milk, and vegetables plainly cooked 
without salt. In some instances milk may be omitted altogether 
and the diet consist of farinaceous food-stuffs, vegetables and one 
or two eggs in the twenty-four hours. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 673 

In a considerable number of cases, however, even where dropsy 
is present, the diet may be with advantage more liberal than this, 
and small quantities of poultry, meat and fish given. The 
articles selected should be chosen from the point of view especially 
of their digestibility, and owing to a large part played by psychi- 
cal influences in the digestive process much advantage may be 
gained by consulting the patient's wishes and tastes. 

In selecting meat in cases of renal disease attention should 
be directed rather to the digestibility of the different varieties 
than to questions of whether the meat is red or white, thus 
mutton is preferable to beef on account of its greater digestibility. 
Further it is probably more important to regulate the quantity 
than to lay undue stress on the kind, thus patients may derive 
more benefit from small quantities of readily digestible red meat 
than from larger quantities of white meat. In the past too great 
stress has apparently been laid on the distinction between red 
and white meats. It must be also remembered that fish, although 
very useful in these cases as in other diseases where the digestive 
processes are impaired, is as a matter of fact singularly rich in 
nitrogenous extractives, and thus more work may be thrown on 
the kidneys with a diet containing large quantities of fish than 
with a diet consisting of a moderate quantity of meat and a con- 
siderable amount of vegetable. It is especially in cases of 
chronic renal disease where a high degree of anaemia is present 
and where little or no improvement has taken place on a milk 
diet that an ordinary mixed diet with moderate quantities of 
red meat produces the best results. Although in these cases 
it is advisable to order meat, the amount given should be strictly 
regulated and it is probably always advisable to limit the meat 
to once a day at the outside. Further, the practitioner must 
be guided by the results and should pay especial attention to 
the general condition of the patient as gauged by the colour of 
the mucous membranes and the body-weight as well as by the 
state of the urine. In estimating the body- weight, however, 
care must be taken so far as is possible to avoid the fallacies 
dependent on the variations in the amount of dropsy. Both 
the incidence and the subsidence of dropsy produce often great 
and sudden changes in the body-weight. Thus a sudden increase 

43 



674 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

in the body-weight is much more likely to be dependent on an 
increase in dropsy than on an improvement in the nutrition, and 
similarly a sudden loss of body-weight may often be due to sub- 
sidence of the dropsy. The fact that the fluctuations in the 
body-weight are dependent on changes in the amount of dropsy 
may usually be ascertained by observing the increase or diminu- 
tion in the flow of urine and also by the fact that these varia- 
tions in the body-weight are much more sudden and marked 
than those due to an improvement in the patient's nutrition. 
Although a meat diet may be and often is most suitable for cer- 
tain cases of chronic renal disease, there are certain forms of meat 
food that are highly objectionable in such cases. First and fore- 
most great care should be taken that all meat should be abso- 
lutely fresh, as there is little doubt that very severe symptoms 
of a gastro-intestinal type may result from the consumption 
of tainted foods. An attack of gastro-enteritis which in a healthy 
person may give rise to only temporary discomfort may in chronic 
renal disease be not only very serious, but may even cause death. 
Gastro-enteritis would seem to be very easily produced in cases 
of chronic renal disease, and this complication may lead to the 
development of uraemia. Preserved and especially smoked, 
concentrated, and salted meat foods are also unsuitable in these 
cases inasmuch as such foods are necessarily very rich in protein 
constituents and thus throw an undue strain on the excretory 
activities of the kidneys which are impaired to a greater or less 
degree. It has long been recognized that smoked and salted 
foods are unsuitable and the observations on the influence of 
sodium chloride on the production of dropsy afford an explana- 
tion of one of the injurious effects that such articles of diet may 
have. For these reasons smoked ham, tongue, and preserved 
meats and fish are undesirable. Twice cooked food is also un- 
suitable, mainly owing to its relative indigestibility and also 
probably owing to the fact that such food may have undergone 
decomposition. Meat extracts, meat essences, soups and broths 
are also unsuitable, the meat extracts and essences owing to 
their richness in extractives and their concentrated character, 
meat soups and animal broths are also not advisable since their 
nutritive value is low and they tend to produce looseness of the 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 675 

bowels or even actual diarrhcea. A diet containing a moderate 
or small quantity of fresh meat or poultry with occasionally fish 
with plenty of vegetables and fruit, together with milk puddings 
and farinaceous food, is most suitable for many forms of chronic 
Blight's disease. Even in these cases the bulk of the food should 
undoubtedly consist of vegetables and farinaceous articles of 
diet provided the patient's digestion is such that he can readily 
deal with it. 

Where there is much wasting and the general nutrition much 
impaired, vegetables should be if possible cooked with butter 
in what is often called " the French fashion." 

In that form of chronic Blight's disease where dropsy is 
absent it is not necessary to restrict the amount of salt in the 
food as is so advisable in the dropsical cases, but otherwise the 
dietary should be on the same general lines and inasmuch as these 
patients are particularly prone to suffer from uraemia care 
should be taken that the diet is not too liberal in proteins. Fur- 
ther, many of these patients suffer from the effects of high ten- 
sion and marked arterial degeneration, and there can be no 
question that a diet rich in animal food is extremely prone to 
increase if not to produce high tension. In such cases the 
animal food in the dietary should be limited as much as possible 
with due regard to the degree of anaemia present. Many patients 
with chronic renal disease have been accustomed, as it is said, 
to live well and to take during long years a highly nitrogenous 
diet. If the diet be too suddenly restricted to milk foods they 
experience a great loss of strength and of energy, and although 
it is imperative in cases where marked high tension is present, 
and where the other symptoms of chronic renal disease may be 
slight, to limit the diet, this must be done cautiously, and in 
many of these cases it is advisable to allow butcher's meat either 
once daily or two or three times a week. If symptoms of uraemia 
develop or if symptoms resulting from high tension become 
marked, the diet must be still further limited and probably in 
these cases it is wise to greatly diminish solid foods and to 
order milk in small quantities, milk puddings, stewed fruit 
and farinaceous foods generally. Such patients often run 
great, if not greater, risks from the effects of high tension than 



676 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

from any of the other complications associated with renal 
lesions. 

Alcohol is probably inadvisable in all forms of chronic Blight's 
disease, at any rate as a routine. It may be necessary from 
time to tune to order small quantities as a cardiac stimulant, 
possibly sometimes as a soporific, and in a few instances it may 
be necessary for the patients to take small quantities with their 
meals, more especially in the chronic renal disease of the elderly. 
It is often difficult to carry out these principles inasmuch as 
many of these patients have been accustomed to take alcohol, 
often in large quantities and for long periods, but it is very harm- 
ful in chronic renal disease for many reasons, and more especially 
from the effects of alcohol as an excitant of the circulation when 
it is remembered what extensive cardio-vascular lesions are so 
often present in chronic renal disease. If alcohol be given at all 
it must be freely diluted, and this is probably more important 
than the particular form of alcohol prescribed. The evil effects 
liable to be produced by alcoholic stimulants in this disease, and 
for the matter of that in many others, are probably mainly de- 
pendent on the actual amount of alcohol in the particular drink 
consumed. The light wines are more advantageous than the 
heavier ones for the reason that they contain a less percentage 
of alcohol. For many years gin has been held in repute as a 
suitable form of alcohol in renal disease ; this is very doubtful 
and probably owes its origin to its diuretic action which it shares 
in common with other alcoholic drinks, although perhaps to a 
somewhat greater extent. If spirits are taken at all they should 
be freely diluted, and it is essential that only small quantities 
should be given. 

The use of tea and coffee in chronic renal disease is often 
forbidden owing to the diuretic action of the active principles 
of tea and coffee. This is done on the general principles that 
it is inadvisable to stimulate a damaged organ. On the other 
hand it must be remembered that in chronic renal disease the 
lesions in the kidney are not uniformly distributed and that not 
uncommonly considerable areas of the kidney present com- 
paratively little pathological change. Further, the use of diur- 
etics, especially citrate of caffein, is sometimes followed by very 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 677 

beneficial results in cases where dropsy is marked. Both tea 
and coffee have a very considerable diuretic action and there does 
not seem really to be any valid objection to their use in cases of 
chronic renal disease in the absence of gastro-intestinal or uraemic 
complications. Certainly the mere presence of dropsy should not 
be regarded as an objection. Coffee is perhaps superior to tea 
not only from the fact that more milk is taken with it, but also 
since it produces a less injurious action on the stomach. 

There is a variety of chronic nephritis that is associated with 
syphilis and this form of the disease frequently does not require 
such rigid dieting as the more ordinary forms of chronic Blight's 
disease. In the syphilitic variety one of the main characteristics 
is an intense albuminuria and such patients may present few 
symptoms of illness beyond general weakness. In some instances 
even this is not well marked, and were it not for the intense albu- 
minuria the condition might escape observation. This albumin- 
uria is not only very marked in amount, but is often of prolonged 
duration lasting many months. In some instances dropsy and 
the other accompaniments of renal disease may be present, and 
where this is the case the diet should be similar to that ordered 
in other forms of chronic nephritis. In the large group of cases 
where the sole manifestation is an intense albuminuria with no 
signs of uraemia, no dropsy, and no obvious cardio-vascular 
involvement the less strict diet is more advisable and such 
patients improve more rapidly if they are allowed a mixed diet 
containing moderate quantities of meat. 

The nephritis of pregnancy unless complications are present 
also scarcely requires a very rigid diet as here also the course of 
the disease is often favourable so soon as delivery takes place or 
the uterus is emptied. 

Where the nephritis of pregnancy is of a severe type and 
accompanied by eclamptic or uraemic phenomena the diet must 
be similar to that suitable for acute and sub-acute nephritis. 

The last group of cases that merits consideration is that in 
which an albuminuria persists after an attack of nephritis. In 
many of these cases there are no marked symptoms of renal 
disease beyond the presence of a persistent albuminuria and 
casts. Many of these cases are looked upon as examples of 



678 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

chronic nephritis, and no doubt this is correct if the words are 
used in the sense that an organic lesion of the kidney is present. 
Such a lesion, however, is not necessarily progressive, and such 
patients may live for years, sometimes even forty years, excreting 
all the time a more or less highly albuminous urine, but without 
presenting any persistent dropsy or any cardio-vascular degenera- 
tion, or any ursemic symptoms. In the absence of these 
complications, no beneficial results will be obtained by putting 
these patients on a restricted and rigid diet with the idea of 
thereby diminishing the albuminuria. In fact, much harm may 
be done by lowering their general health by a milk diet insisted 
on for too prolonged a time. Doubtless the efficiency of the 
kidney in these cases is somewhat impaired, but the albuminuria 
may be regarded rather as produced by a lesion that is the result 
of the attack of the nephritis, than as the result of a slowly pro- 
gressive and destructive kidney lesion. There is no class of 
cases of renal disease where it is more important to diet the patient 
on general considerations, and such patients should be ordered 
a simple mixed diet with plenty of vegetables, fruit, and a moder- 
ate quantity of fish and meat. 



GRANULAR KIDNEY 

Diet is of great importance not only in the treatment of 
granular kidney, but also much may be done by suitable food to 
prevent the development of this disease in those prone to it. 
Further, there can be little doubt that severe as the affection is, 
life may be prolonged by a suitable dietary in these cases. 

Granular kidney affords one of the best illustrations of the 
principle that the diet should be based not so much on the con- 
dition of the urine as on the general state of the patient. Dietetic 
treatment is peculiarly important in this variety of chronic renal 
disease owing to the fact that the malady is prone to occur in 
those who have been accustomed to indulge in the pleasures 
of the table. Further, granular kidney is peculiarly associated 
with arterio-sclerosis and cardio-vascular degeneration, and 
arterial disease would also seem to have a very similar etiology* 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 679 

that is to say, arterio-sclerosis and granular kidney may have 
a common factor in their etiology, although the one is not a 
necessary and invariable accompaniment of the other. 

From the point of view of treatment several different varieties 
of granular kidney may be recognized. In some cases the 
patients present obvious renal symptoms similar to those seen 
in chronic nephritis, but a large proportion of cases come under 
observation with other symptoms dependent upon the degree of 
involvement of the cardio- vascular system, or even perhaps with 
symptoms due to malnutrition. 

From the point of view of treatment by diet, perhaps the most 
important group is that where, with the appearance of health, 
the occurrence of some symptom as, for example, dyspnoea on 
exertion, has led to the discovery of the underlying disease. In 
some cases the disease is discovered purely accidentally as a 
result, it may be, of a routine examination for life insurance, when 
the patient has not developed any marked symptoms of ill-health . 
In these cases, also, much benefit may result from the mode of life 
being altered and a suitable diet ordered. 

In the cases where marked renal symptoms are present and 
where the patient is more or less seriously ill, the dietetic treatment 
should be similar to that ordered in chronic or sub-acute nephritis, 
the degree of restriction depending on the presence or absence 
of toxic symptoms, gastro-intestinal disturbance, etc. 

The dropsy of the so-called cardiac type that is apt to arise 
in granular kidney, should be treated on the same lines as renal 
dropsy. There is some risk in cases of granular kidney associated 
with dropsy of the patient taking or being ordered an excessive 
quantity of fluid, owing to the large quantities of urine which 
may be excreted in this disease. The patient often has an ex- 
aggerated idea of his renal efficiency, and it must be remembered 
that although large quantities of water may be excreted, the urine 
is very poor in solids, and the excretory activity of the kidneys 
is often notably diminished. It is inadvisable to order these 
patients, especially if dropsy is present, large quantities of fluid 
food, as there can be little doubt that hydraulic plethora is 
thereby increased and better results are often obtained by giving 
a semi-solid, and therefore, drier food and an allowance of enough 



680 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

fluid to check thirst. No useful purpose is served by undue 
restriction of the fluids ingested, as dropsy cannot be treated 
successfully on these lines. In the ordinary case of granular 
kidney with secondary cardio-vascular changes and where the 
patient seeks advice, probably owing to the development of car- 
diac symptoms, and yet where he is not obviously ill, the two 
main principles of dieting are in the first place to cut down the 
amount of food, and secondly, to diminish as much as possible 
the proteins without impairment to the general nutrition. 

Granular kidney is a malady especially of the latter half of 
life, and very often sufferers from it have not with advancing 
years diminished their intake of food, and they remain large 
eaters. Hence, very strikingly beneficial results can often be 
obtained by the mere diminution in the quantity of food. 

The amount of fluid consumed requires to be somewhat regu- 
lated, but it is difficult to lay down rigid rules with reference to 
this, as on the one hand it is undesirable to produce hydraemic 
plethora owing to the high tension which is so often present, and 
on the other hand, it is advantageous, especially in gouty cases, to 
give sufficient fluid to procure adequate flushing of the kidneys. 

The diminution in the quantity, and especially in the quality, 
of nitrogenous food taken, the alteration in the character of the 
food, and especially the substitution, so far as is possible, of vege- 
table and carbo-hydrate food for the highly nitrogenous animal 
food, and, thirdly, the judicious administration of diluents are the 
main principles in the regulation of the diet in these cases. 

Although it is essential to cut down the nitrogenous articles 
of diet, especially meat, it is probably inadvisable to exclude meat 
altogether, unless complications are present. If the general 
health be lowered by too rigid and too low a diet there is some 
risk of producing cardiac dilation and what is usually spoken of 
as failure of compensation. Many of these patients complain 
bitterly of the feeling of illness and general weakness produced by 
too low a diet. It has been the custom to advise, especially in 
this class of case, replacement of red meat by white meat. It is 
doubtful, however, whether this is really followed by striking 
benefit, except in so far as poultry may be more digestible in 
some instances than ordinary red meat. The main thing to 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 681 

insist on is the regulation of the quantity of meat eaten, and al- 
though white meats are poorer in protein than red meat, yet some- 
times if the patient be given a free hand, large quantities of white 
meat may be taken under the idea that it is relatively harmless, 
whereas better results would be obtained by smaller quantities 
of ordinary meat of different kinds being allowed. Concentrated 
meats and preserved, smoked, and salted meats should certainly 
be forbidden. In the opinion of the writer the best results are 
obtained by ordering a mixed diet carefully restricted in quantity, 
and the patient's appetite should be satisfied so far as possible, 
with vegetables and farinaceous articles of diet. Meat essences, 
strong animal soups, should certainly be forbidden and replaced 
by vegetable soups. The quantity of fluid ingested should also be 
regulated, and especially the taking of large quantities of fluid 
at any one time. There is considerable risk of increasing the 
plethora and the blood tension by the sudden ingestion of large 
quantities of fluid. At the same time it must be remembered 
that the tension of these patients is necessarily above the normal, 
and that if it be reduced too suddenly to the normal, serious 
effects may follow. In other words, regard should be had rather 
to the condition of the individual patient than to theoretical 
considerations as to what is the normal pressure, and it must be 
remembered that such patients have become to some degree 
accustomed to an abnormally high blood pressure. 

Patients with granular kidney not only run dangers from 
sudden increase of the pressure in the vessels, but it is almost as 
dangerous for the pressure to undergo sudden diminution. The 
one effect may be brought about by a too highly stimulating nitro- 
genous diet with the too frequent ingestion of fluid, and the other 
danger may result from a too rigid limitation of the diet. It is 
for these reasons that the diet and the administration of fluids 
should be regulated to a great extent by the signs and symptoms 
presented by the patient rather than by any arbitrary rule 
dependent on the exact height of blood pressure as measured in 
millimetres of mercury. 

Stimulants and condiments of all kinds are inadvisable in 
these cases, partly on account of their action on the vascular 
system and partly on account of the very frequent co-existence 



682 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of gastric and hepatic disorders in such patients. There is not r 
however, the same objection to the taking of salt that exists in 
cases of chronic nephritis. On the other hand, where the granular 
kidney is associated with the gouty state, there may be some 
objection to the taking of large quantities of sodium chloride 
in the food, as it would seem that this ingredient has some influ- 
ence on the deposition of urates, and therefore on the production 
of the gouty paroxysm. Proposals have been made from time 
to time to replace sodium chloride in the food by salt prepared 
from vegetables and especially from spinach, in other words, 
to replace the base sodium by potash (see GOUT). 

Inasmuch as the excretory activity of the kidney is more or 
less seriously impaired in cases of granular kidney, it is most 
important for these patients to avoid all highly-flavoured and 
elaborately cooked food. 



AMYLOID KIDNEY 

Amyloid degeneration of the kidneys is not such a common 
lesion as it used to be, owing to the improvement in the treat- 
ment of septic cases. Still, from time to time amyloid disease 
is still found associated either with phthisis or as a result of long- 
continued suppuration. There is a considerable clinical resem- 
blance between these cases and those of chronic Bright's disease, 
and even of granular kidney, but the dietetic treatment of 
amyloid disease of the kidney is quite different to that of either 
of these other lesions, and hence it is important that an accurate 
diagnosis should be made. This is more especially necessary, in- 
asmuch as in cases of phthisis, for instance, both amyloid disease 
of the kidney and nephritis may exist as complications. In 
amyloid degeneration the excretory functions of the organ are not 
compromised to the same serious extent that they are in nephritis, 
unless the amyloid disease is very far advanced or, as not infre- 
quently happens, the two lesions are co-existent in the same 
kidney. 

One of the most striking effects produced by amyloid disease is 
albuminuria, and the daily loss of albumin may be very consider- 
able. In some instances, however, the type of urine excreted is 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 683 

more like that seen in granular kidney, being abundant and dilute, 
and containing but a trace of albumin. 

In amyloid disease, as a rule, the renal lesion should not 
materially influence the dietetic treatment, in other words, the 
diet ordered should be that suitable for the underlying disease, 
and no undue stress should be laid on the presence of the renal 
complication. Much harm may be done by restricting the diet 
owing to the existence of albuminuria, with the mistaken idea 
that the diet suitable is similar to that ordered in other forms of 
chronic kidney disease. It is quite hopeless to attempt to restrict 
the albuminuria by dietetic measures ; both in nephritis and in 
amyloid kidney a solid diet, containing considerable quantities 
of meat, may not materially increase the daily loss of albumin, 
and inasmuch as the underlying disease associated with amyloid 
degeneration is usually one where there is very great malnutrition, 
it is obvious that the diet should not be restricted unless there 
is very urgent necessity, such as the development of uraemic 
symptoms, or the occurrence of marked renal dropsy ; the former 
is a more important indication for dietetic restriction than the 
latter. 

Thus cases where albuminuria results from amyloid disease 
should be treated quite differently to any other renal lesion 
accompanied by albuminuria, since a liberal diet in no way 
restricted is probably the most suitable, and hence the patient's 
tastes and inclinations can be allowed far greater play than in 
other affections. Again, there is not the same objection to the 
use of stimulants in amyloid disease, and they may be ordered 
where it is considered advisable either from a point of view of 
the general weakness, or where it is thought advisable to give 
them from the point of view of aiding digestion or increasing 
appetite. 

FUNCTIONAL ALBUMINURIA 

Various types of functional albuminuria have been recog- 
nized in the past and attributed to different causes, such as exer- 
tion, cold bathing, dietetic causes, and the most important of 
all, that dependent on the assumption of the erect posture, also 
called the postural or orthostatic variety. Of late years more 



684 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

importance has been attributed to posture as a cause than to diet, 
and certainly in most cases of functional albuminuria, and especi- 
ally in those with well-marked postural characteristics, diet has 
little or no effect in influencing the degree of albuminuria. In 
postural cases albuminuria disappears when the patient is put 
in the recumbent posture even when the diet is not restricted, 
and such albuminuria may disappear within half an hour of the 
assumption of the recumbent posture. On the other hand, 
certain articles of diet if taken in great abundance, more especially 
eggs in a raw state, may give rise to albuminuria, and hence 
it is impossible, perhaps, to exclude dietetic causes as an occasional 
cause of some varieties of functional albuminuria ; nevertheless, 
diet is not an important cause of the common form of functional 
or postural albuminuria seen in adolescence. Further, it must 
be remembered that some constituents of the urine present in 
abnormal quantity may apparently irritate the kidneys and lead 
to slight albuminuria ; thus traces of albumin may be found associ- 
ated with oxaluria and excess of uric acid, or the excretion of urates 
in an abnormal form, as, for instance, the spicular crystals of acid 
ammonium urate. Albuminuria dependent on these causes may 
require dietetic treatment to restrict the output of oxalates or 
of uric acid, but in the ordinary cases of functional albuminuria 
little benefit is to be expected from dietetic measures, and cer- 
tainly the low diet suitable for certain forms of nephritis is quite 
inapplicable to such cases. 

The principles of diet in other renal affections, such as cystic 
kidney, tuberculous disease, pyelonephritis are much the same 
as those applicable to nephritis, but in some of these conditions, 
especially where pyelitis is present, attention should be directed 
to the reaction of the urine, as much of the discomfort produced 
by frequent micturition may be relieved by ordering a diet rich 
in vegetable matter so as to render the urine less acid. In most 
of these other renal affections, the general condition of the 
patient should be an important factor in determining the diet. 
Thus in tuberculous kidney, it may be far more important to diet 
the patient from the general point of view of tuberculosis rather 
than from the point of view of the urinary changes. In such a 
malady, although the urine may contain considerable quantities 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 685 

of pus and albumin, yet large areas of renal substance may exist 
in a more or less healthy condition, and the renal efficiency of the 
patient may not be seriously impaired, and thus there may be 
no real necessity for limiting the quantity of food taken. Similarly 
in cases of cystic kidney, although the urine excreted may be 
dilute, still in many cases, a considerable amount of healthy renal 
substance is still present. On the other hand, in some cases of 
cystic kidney the renal tissue between the cysts has become 
fibroid, and such patients present signs and symptoms similar 
to those of granular kidney, thickening of the vessels, cardiac 
hypertrophy, with high tension being also present. When this 
is the case dietetic treatment similar to that suitable for granular 
kidney should be ordered, and probably in all cases of cystic 
kidney, owing to the dilute character of the urine excreted, it is 
wise to limit the nitrogenous ingesta to some degree. 



CALCULOUS AFFECTIONS 

There are probably at least three factors concerned in the 
formation of calculi. In the first place, the composition of the 
food must play a part of some importance, but in addition to 
this two other factors influence the formation of calculi. First, 
the amount of the particular calculus forming ingredient in the 
urfne and its chemical relationship with other urinary constitu- 
ents, and secondly, the presence of some inflammatory affection, 
sometimes very slight in amount, in the renal pelvis. The forma- 
tion of a calculus does not depend solely on the mere amount 
of uric acid or oxalic acid present in the urine. It is well known, 
for example, that urines that deposit uric acid are very often 
relatively dilute, and that, on the other hand, urines containing 
a large percentage of uric acid frequently only deposit urates 
owing to the excess of other urinary salts present. Thus the 
formation of the uric acid calculus cannot be correlated simply 
with the amount of uric acid present in the urine. Still the 
amount may influence the formation of the calculus to some 
degree, and hence the regulation by diet of the amount excreted 
so far as possible becomes important. 

The part played by slight pyelitis in the production of calculi 



686 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

is probably of considerable importance, since the formation of 
a calculus may often depend on an irregular mode of cystalliza- 
tion, such as the formation, for example, of a large crystal under 
the influence of the presence of some colloid material such as 
blood, pus, or albumin in the urine. Doubtless the pyelitis 
may sometimes arise from the action of micro-organisms, and 
although pyelitis cannot be controlled purely by dietetic measures, 
yet it can be influenced to some extent by modifying the composi- 
tion of the urine, especially as regards its acidity. 

Where it is desirable to modify the reaction of the urine for 
prolonged periods, dietetic measures are more suitable than the 
mere administration of drugs. 

Alteration in the reaction of the urine may also be of import- 
ance in influencing the formation of calculi, inasmuch as highly 
acid urines are more prone to deposit uric acid, for instance, than 
less acid urines. Although the excretion of uric acid in the urine 
cannot be prevented by any system of dieting, since uric acid 
is a product of the metabolism of the tissues and is excreted during 
starvation, yet the deposition of uric acid in the urine either in 
the form of gravel or calculi may be materially influenced by 
dietetic measures that act, not only by restricting the output of 
uric acid, but also by altering the reaction of the urine. Atten- 
tion is often far too much concentrated on the quantity of uric 
acid in the urine, rather than on the conditions leading to its 
deposition. 

In the case of deposition of uric acid, diet then may influence 
the process in at least two ways, by affecting the quantity of 
uric acid present, and secondly, by affecting the reaction of the 
urine and so either increasing or diminishing the rapidity of 
the deposition of uric acid, and, as already pointed out, the latter 
process may be the more important of the two. In the case of 
the deposition of oxalate of lime the determining conditions are 
somewhat different, inasmuch as the great bulk of the oxalic 
acid excreted in the urine in the form of oxalates is derived solely 
from the food or from products of the decomposition of the food 
in the alimentary canal. It is probable that at the most only 
traces of oxalic acid are formed during the metabolism of the 
tissues, and thus the amount of oxalates in the urine can be affected 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 687 

far more by diet than is the case with uric acid. Approximately 
one half of the uric acid excreted is of endogenous origin, i.e. 
produced by the metabolism of the tissues. The formation of 
calculi containing oxalates depends, however, on other factors 
than the mere quantity of oxalic acid excreted, since the essence 
of the process lies in the formation of the relatively insoluble 
oxalate of lime in greater or less abundance instead of the excre- 
tion of soluble oxalates. Certain articles of diet, especially 
rhubarb and tomatoes, contain considerable quantities of oxalates, 
and it is not unusual for oxaluria, due to the ingestion of con- 
siderable quantities of these substances, to give rise to symptoms 
such as pain and haematuria. Oxalates, however, may be formed 
in abundance in the stomach, especially in cases of dilatation 
of the stomach, and in other conditions where the secretion of 
hydrochloric acid is deficient and fermentation and decomposi- 
tion of the gastric contents takes place. This diet may give rise 
to oxaluria either directly owing to the presence of considerable 
quantities of oxalates actually in the substance ingested, or 
indirectly owing to abnormal decomposition taking place as a 
result of fermentation of the gastric contents. 

The regulation of the diet in cases of calculous disease is 
more important from the point of view of prevention than of 
cure. No dietetic measures can affect a stone already formed, 
but it is probable that careful regulation of the diet may prevent 
the formation of subsequent stones where one has been passed 
or removed. 

Uric acid calculi. The uric acid present in the urine is, as 
mentioned above, of twofold origin, partly derived from the 
metabolism of the tissues endogenous and part derived from the 
decomposition of the foods exogenous. The former quantity 
would seem to vary in amount in different individuals, but to 
be constant for the same individual and to be uninfluenced 
by diet. The exogenous moiety, on the other hand, can be 
profoundly influenced by diet. Formerly it was thought 
that the quantity of uric acid was directly dependent on the 
amount of the nitrogenous ingesta, in the same manner that 
urea is, and that a relationship existed between the quantity 
of urea and the quantity of uric acid excreted. It is now 



688 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

recognized that the uric acid of exogenous origin is derived 
from certain protein constituents of the food, but not from all, 
in other words, that it is a disintegration product of the purin 
bases such as xanthin, hypoxanthin, etc. These purin bases 
are not present in equal amount in all varieties of protein food. 
They are, however, especially abundant in certain glands, as, 
for instance, the thymus and the pancreas, and to a considerable 
but less degree in ordinary muscle or flesh. Thus a meat diet 
may greatly increase the excretion of uric acid, not simply be- 
cause it is rich in protein, but because it contains considerable 
quantities of purin bases. On the other hand, a diet of milk or 
eggs, although it may contain an equal amount of protein matter 
will not yield a corresponding excretion of uric acid, as such a diet 
is poor in purin bases. Vegetable diet may also, although con- 
taining an equivalent quantity of protein matter, fail to yield 
any notable uric acid excretion because it is poor in purin bases. 
The uric acid excretion may thus be considerably cut down, by 
giving a diet in which purin bases are scanty, and yet such a diet 
may contain considerable quantities of protein. 

In the treatment of the uric acid diathesis, whether giving 
rise to gout or to gravel and stone, it is a point of great practical 
importance that the kind of protein matter in the food should 
be regulated and that attention should not be concentrated merely 
on the amount. Milk, eggs, cheese, bread, rice and vegetables 
generally, and fruit, form the main ingredients of such diet, and 
the quantity of meat should be reduced to a minimum. In this 
way the uric acid excretion may be cut down to a very consider- 
able extent. It must, however, be remembered that the de- 
position of uric acid in the urine does not depend solely on the 
percentage amount present, but also very largely on the chemical 
relationships determining the formation in which the uric acid 
is excreted, and that in order for it to remain in the urine in a 
state of solution the reaction of the urine must not be unduly 
acid, and further, salts must be present in abundance to provide 
the necessary bases to combine and form biurates. A diet rich 
in vegetables is peculiarly useful in the treatment of uric acid 
gravel, inasmuch as vegetables are rich in alkaline salts, especially 
potash salts. With a liberal diet of vegetables, the reaction of 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 689 

the urine can be rendered far less acid or even neutral, and the 
deposition of uric acid greatly hindered. In cases of gravel it 
is advisable for the patient to drink large quantities of water in 
order to flush out the kidneys as much as possible. At the same 
time this water should be taken at other times than with the meals, 
inasmuch as it is not advisable for a dilute urine to be passed at 
a time when the products of metabolism have to be excreted. 
The free ingestion of water is also desirable in the treatment of 
pyelitis, and pyelitis, especially in its slighter forms, may play 
a great part in determining the production of a stone. 

Oxaluria. In the dietetic treatment of oxaluria, care must be 
taken not to admit in the dietary food containing an abundance of 
oxalates, and the diet should be regulated from the point of view 
of treating any gastric disturbance that is present, and all articles 
of food liable to undergo decomposition in the stomach should be 
forbidden. Further, it is essential, as in the treatment of many 
other gastric disorders, that the food should be given in small 
quantities, as the stomach is so often dilated. Oxalic acid is in 
some respects chemically allied to uric acid, and thus may owe 
its origin to abnormal decomposition of protein. 

Care should be taken in the dietary that the food ordered is 
of the simplest and freshest, and inasmuch as the gastric diges- 
tion is often inefficient, it is desirable to limit the ingestion of 
fluid within meals, since large quantities of fluid may seriously 
weaken the action of the digestive juices. 



44 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS 
SYSTEM 



CHAPTER XXIII 



BY JAMES TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

NERVOUS diseases are best divided, for the purposes of the 
consideration of this subject, into organic and functional. In 
organic disease structural changes are present which are the 
result of inflammatory change, of vascular disease, or of de- 
generative conditions, some of which, at least, are toxic in origin. 
Others are spoken of as degenerative simply ; but in some, possibly 
all, of these there is probably some toxic condition which deter- 
mines the degenerative change. In a certain class of cases, 
especially those of the so-called condition of myelitis, it is not 
easy to discriminate between the different causal factors of the 
condition, for inflammatory phenomena are present, vascular 
occlusions are also met with, and degeneration of nervous struc- 
tures is a constant sequel ; and it is not easy to disentangle 
these different conditions in any given case. It may be said 
at once that for all such organic diseases no special dietetic rules 
can be laid down. The usual principles to be observed in the 
treatment of any acute disease are equally applicable to the 
acute diseases of the nervous system ; for it must be remem- 
bered that those diseases are, to a large extent, not diseases of 
nervous tissue primarily, but really a condition in which disease 
in other structures leads to the impairment of function of parts 
of the nervous system. Thus, a case of hemiplegia, the result 
of occlusion or rupture of a vessel, is really a disease of the vascular 
system, or of the blood, and the consequent hemiplegia is the 
result of impaired function of certain nervous structures due 
to the cutting off of their blood supply. And even later, when 
actual degenerative changes have taken place in the nervous 



694 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tissues, these are really of necrotic character, the defective supply 
of blood leading to the death of the tissues which it supplies. 
Thus, in malignant endocarditis we may have infarcts in the 
kidney and in the spleen ; we may also have infarcts in the 
brain, and, as a consequence of that, a condition of hemiplegia. 
But such a condition is not, strictly speaking, a nervous disease, 
any more than an infarct of the spleen is a splenic disease, or 
a fracture of the skull with an injury to the Rolandic region, 
which causes hemiplegia, a nervous disease. Thus the treat- 
ment of the condition of hemiplegia, including the dietetic 
treatment, is the treatment of the condition which has given 
rise to the paralysis : and the treatment of the condition of 
myelitis, or other inflammatory diseases of the nervous system, 
is the treatment, so far as diet is concerned, to be observed in 
the treatment of any acute inflammatory affection of any organ 
or tissue. If the paralytic condition is the result of such con- 
ditions as render care in diet essential, for example, kidney 
disease, then, of course, the dietetic treatment of the nervous 
disease, so-called, is determined, or at least modified, by the 
kidney disease. Similarly the dietetic, and indeed the general 
treatment of such a condition as embolic hemiplegia in a patient 
the subject of heart disease is determined, to a large degree at 
least, by the condition of the heart. 

Most degenerative diseases of the nervous system are pro- 
bably toxic in origin. We know that such a condition as diph- 
theritic paralysis is definitely so. There are strong reasons for 
supposing that tabes dorsalis and general paralysis of the insane 
are a late result of syphilitic intoxication. It would seem, as 
Gowers has said, as if tabes and general paralysis have a relation 
to the microbe of syphilis analogous to that which alcoholic 
peripheral neuritis has to the yeast plant, only that the poison 
alcohol which gives rise to the peripheral neuritis is formed 
outside the body, whereas the presumed toxine which causes 
degeneration in the nervous system associated with tabes and 
general paralysis of the insane, is formed inside the body. Of 
the disease known as sub-acute combined sclerosis, so often 
associated with profound anaemia, there is good ground for 
suspecting that some toxic condition of the blood leads to the 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 695 

very interesting, and not infrequently symmetrical, changes in 
the spinal cord which are invariably found present in the dis- 
ease. In pellagra, in which similar spinal cord changes are 
found, we know the condition to be the result of a poison present 
in unripe maize. In disseminated sclerosis no poison has yet 
been isolated, yet the nature of the clinical history of the con- 
dition and the conditions found post-mortem lead to the sus- 
picion that the changes in the nervous system are the result 
of some toxic influence. Such considerations as those are im- 
portant in reference to the dietetic treatment of the diseases 
only in so far as they may indicate that good, abundant, and 
easily-assimilated food must be given in order to maintain the 
health of the nervous structures, and so enable them to withstand 
the influence of poisons. 

There is a class of nervous disease in which the obvious con- 
dition is one of slow, steady wasting or degeneration in certain 
structures. The cause of this is still obscure. It may be, as 
has been suggested, that these structures are endowed with a 
low vitality, and simply die young. If this is so, the condition 
may truly be called an abiotrophic one. It may be, on the 
other hand, that some toxic condition underlies this degeneration 

and determines it. In some cases such a view would seem to 



be favoured by the clinical history of the cases. In certain 
instances, for example, of progressive muscular atrophy, after 
a certain number of muscles have wasted, the result, no doubt, 
of wasting of the anterior horn cells, which subserve them, the 
process comes to an end and the disease ceases to be progressive. 
In such cases and they are not very uncommon it would 
seem as if the supply of the poison had been exhausted, no more 
being available to affect the still unaffected nerve cells. But 
even if we suppose that it is a poison which gives rise to those 
changes, we are still very much in the dark as to its origin. 
Whether it is a poison generated in the body, or whether it is 
imported from outside and in this consideration the question 
of food will be of the greatest importance we do not know. 
In another disease, exactly analagous to progressive muscular 
atrophy, namely, bulbar paralysis, we are confronted with the 
same problem. Those diseases are really identical in nature, 



696 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

and are frequently combined. There is another curious disease 
which Waren Tay first described in which there is a degeneration 
of the optic nerve and retina, and also a universal degeneration 
of the motor cells of the nervous system. In this condition, 
which appears to be invariably fatal, and which occurs in the 
first two years of life, almost invariably in children of Jewish 
parentage, we do not yet know whether the condition is one of 
simple early decay and death abiotrophy or whether it may 
be toxic in origin. Searching inquiries have been made into 
the feeding and dietary of these children. They have not all 
been breast-fed, but some have been. So that inquiries into 
the influence of diet would have to be extended further back 
than the period of lactation so as to discover any peculiarities 
in the diet of the mother during her pregnancy. At present 
we are quite ignorant of the determining cause of this condition, 
so that no special rules as to diet, with the view of averting or 
curing the condition, can be laid down. 

Thus, then, in cases of organic nervous disease, no special 
rules are required as to diet, for we do not^know of any diet 
which materially modifies the progress of those diseases. Still, 
there are certain conditions which occur in such diseases capable 
of being modified by special diet. It may be well to say a few 
words about some of those. In the early stage of hemiplegia, 
for example, whether it is the result of haemorrhage, thrombosis, 
or embolism, the diet must be light, easy of digestion, and 
especially if some difficulty of deglutition exists capable of 
being easily swallowed. If unconsciousness be present, liquids 
are the only kind of food that can be administered. Occasion- 
ally swallowing is quite impossible, and then recourse must be 
had to rectal feeding. When this is necessary, there must be a good 
rectal wash-out at least once in twenty-four hours, and it is best 
to give small enemata of not more than half a pint every six 
hours. These should consist of peptonized milk or peptomzed 
beef- tea, and an egg may also be given in the enema. One 
ounce of brandy should be added if conditions are present render- 
ing stimulation necessary, as is frequently the case when throm- 
bosis is the cause of hemiplegia, or when any condition of cardiac 
weakness is present. Such rectal feeding sometimes serves to 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 697 

bridge over the time of unconsciousness, but the outlook is always 
bad if the patient is unable to take some food by the mouth 
within thirty-six hours of the onset of paralysis. As soon as 
consciousness is recovered, milk should be given first, and during 
some days a dietary of milk, egg and beef-tea is all that can be 
permitted. Mastication is often difficult, and when the time 
comes to try solid food, it must be remembered that the food 
often tends to lodge on the paralysed side of the mouth, and 
to remain there for some time. 

When unconsciousness is not present, there is no difficulty 
in feeding the patient, and the only point to remember is that, at 
first at least, the food should be light, for the most part liquid, 
and chiefly milk. If there be no rise of temperature, recourse 
may soon be had to bread and butter, fish and chicken. It is 
well to refrain from giving red meat for at least a week after 
the commencement of the illness. 

With reference to myelitis, of whatever kind, whether trans- 
verse or limited to the grey matter polio-myelitis it need 
only be said that the diet to be adopted in the early stage is 
the light, easily-digested food suitable for any feverish con- 
dition. 

Reference has already been made to tabes dorsalis. There 
is no diet which seems to modify the progress of the disease in 
its essential characters. It must always be remembered that 
in many cases there is a natural tendency to a condition in which 
the disease ceases to be progressive, a condition in which, appar- 
ently, the supply of the poison causing the degeneration seems 
to be exhausted. In such cases, abundant, easily-assimilated 
food, like milk, is of great advantage, and this is especially 
true of cases in which there is, as is frequently seen, a great 
tendency to wasting. Many tabetics, if left to themselves, 
become excessively thin ; yet if this tendency be early recog- 
nized, much can be done by the use of milk, cream, and fat bacon, 
and any other fats which can be taken and digested, to prevent 
the wasting going on to the undoubtedly harmful degree which 
it may attain. And in reference to tabes, it is well to remember 
the tendency, in certain cases, to the occurrence of gastric crises. 
Although it cannot be said that careful attention to diet will 



698 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

altogether prevent such attacks, yet it is undoubtedly true 
that any indiscretion may bring on a severe attack of vomiting, 
so that such patients have to be warned against the use of pastry, 
of much starchy food, or of anything in the nature of greasy 
or highly spiced food. Their dietary should consist of toast, 
fish, chicken, well-cooked meat, and very little vegetable. A 
little stewed fruit is sometimes advisable, and alcohol should 
be completely avoided. Yet, in spite of the greatest care, a 
crisis may come on in such a case, and as a rule it is not cut 
short by anything except morphia. Sometimes repeated small 
doses by the mouth are quite effective, but in the severe attacks, 
the use of the drug hypodermically is necessary. And when the 
vomiting has ceased, great care must be used in the resumption 
of food. It is advisable to put the patient, for the first 
two days, on milk in small quantities frequently repeated. Six, 
or even as little as four, ounces every two or three hours is usually 
quite enough, and during the first week after a crisis, milk and 
milk food should still remain the sole constituent of the diet. 
Sometimes, in spite of great care, there is a return of the vomit- 
ing after a day or two, but this tendency to the recurrence of 
sickness is certainly favoured by any indiscretion in diet. 

There is one organic nervous disease in which diet is of much 
importance, namely, alcoholic peripheral neuritis. Although 
patients suffering from this disorder, when they first come under 
observation, are fat and apparently well nourished, occasion- 
ally they are emaciated quite out of proportion to the degree 
of paralysis. And even the fat ones not infrequently, after a 
few weeks of rest in bed and abstinence from alcohol, become 
actually wasted. In some of these cases, whether they are 
thin in the early stages or in the later, pulmonary tuberculosis 
may be actually present. It has been suggested that such a 
condition is possibly predisposed to by an actual neuritis of the 
vagus branches to the lungs : but whether that be so or not, 
there is no doubt of the fact that pulmonary tuberculosis is a 
not uncommon complication of peripheral alcoholic neuritis. 
Such a fact gives, of course, a very clear hint as to feeding, only 
the misfortune is that so frequently in such cases the appetite 
is capricious and the stomach irritable, so that it is very difficult 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 699 

to administer such food as is necessary, in sufficient quantity. 
It is often desirable to put such a patient on milk diet, and to 
gradually combine with such milk-feeding, the administration 
of good beef -tea, of fish, and, later, of well-cooked chicken or 
game, until the stomach is gradually brought to a condition in 
which it can tolerate a generous diet. Often the progress to 
this consummation is exceedingly slow, and such patients fre- 
quently dislike milk. But it must be persisted in, and when 
vigorous massage of the affected limbs is at last tolerated, such 
treatment will, of course, favour the administration of larger 
quantities of food. It is of the essence of treatment in such 
cases to try to keep up the weight. Occasionally one is disap- 
pointed with the result in a patient who came under observation, 
apparently of good colour and well nourished, but it must be 
remembered that such a patient has actually been living on 
alcohol, and taking very little food, so that the wasting which 
takes place under the changed conditions is only what might 
be expected. Yet it is essential in such cases to try, by such 
dietetic regulations as have been indicated, to prevent such 
wasting, and so remove what is undoubtedly a danger, namely, 
the tendency to the development of pulmonary phthisis. When 
this is definitely present, then the treatment of the peripheral 
neuritis should be combined, if possible, with the appropriate 
treatment for this condition. 

Besides the organic diseases of the nervous system, there 
are certain morbid conditions in which the nervous symptoms 
consist mainly of disturbances in the functions of certain organs, 
no doubt determined by disease, yet in which the diseased con- 
dition is of uncertain character. Of these, one of the most 
important is chorea. It is necessary merely to allude to the 
pathology of this condition, in which fresh interest has recently 
been aroused by the work of Drs. Poynton and Payne. Their 
conclusions would seem to point to the existence of a microbe 
of acute rheumatism. On this hypothesis the phenomena of 
chorea are traceable to the presence of those microbes in the 
cerebral vessels. Such a pathology would bring the most modern 
views as to chorea into line with the views of Hughlings Jack- 
son, Broadbent, and others, according to whom chorea has, as 



700 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

its underlying morbid anatomy, the presence of occluded small 
vessels in the cerebrum. Whether this view be adopted, or 
the other, which would regard chorea as the result of some toxic 
condition of the blood acting upon cerebral structures, the 
disease is frequently so severe in its effects as to make the feed- 
ing of the patient a matter of both difficulty and importance. 
In discussing chorea in this relation, it must be understood 
that we are considering the disease as apart from any mani- 
festations of actual acute rheumatism. Frequently, of course, 
cardiac disease is present, but so long as it is not in an active 
stage of endocarditis or pericarditis, the treatment of the con- 
dition is the treatment of the chorea. Where active rheumatic 
conditions are present, the dietetic treatment of the condition, 
as well as the treatment by drugs, is determined by the condition 
of the acute rheumatism present. Little need be said of the 
treatment of chorea by drugs. The use of arsenic and other 
tonic drugs in small doses is probably not without a certain 
amount of good influence. The use of arsenic in large doses 
is frequently harmful, and is never justifiable. Rest, seclusion, 
and abundant feeding are the essentials for the successful treat- 
ment of chorea. In an ordinary case it is sufficient to give a 
full diet suitable to the age of the patient, with one or two added 
pints of milk. In severe cases the food is to be entirely liquid, 
and it may have to be given by the nasal tube. In such a case, 
milk, eggs, and strong beef-tea are the chief articles of diet, 
and alcohol should always be added in considerable quantity, 
as much as an ounce, or even 2 oz., to each feed. This is especi- 
ally important in those cases which are admitted into hospital 
actually in a state of starvation, because the violence of the 
movements has prevented proper feeding. In such cases it is 
important to give no sedatives, especially of the chloral class, 
at least until the patient has had a good meal, with added alcohol. 
In some cases in which this rule has been neglected, severe 
and even fatal collapse has followed the administration of the 
sedative : and indeed in those cases, if such a meal as has been 
indicated, of milk, eggs, or beef-tea, with 1 or 2 oz. of whisky or 
brandy, be given, the sedative will probably be unnecessary, 
as the food itself will induce a sleep at once more wholesome, 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 701 

more natural, and more refreshing than any kind of sedative. 

The quantity to be given will depend upon the age of the 
patient, but if any error is to be made, it had better be made 
on the side of giving too much rather than too little. An adoles- 
cent male or female and such are usually the subjects of the 
severer form of chorea should have at least 4 pints of liquid, 
beef-tea or milk, with three or four eggs, and as much as 6 oz. 
of alcohol in twenty-four hours. For a younger patient, a 
smaller quantity will be sufficient. It is desirable, again, to 
insist upon the need for using alcohol in those cases, and upon 
the necessity of always feeding a patient suffering from chorea, 
after admission to a hospital before any sedative is administered. 
As has already been said, the administration of a good meal 
will often obviate the need for any sedative. The nasal tube 
will only be used if the patient cannot swallow, and if it has to 
be used, it must be discontinued at the earliest possible moment. 

Epilepsy. It might be expected that in a disease like epilepsy, 
which shows itself in the definite if irregular recurrence of con- 
vulsive phenomena, the influence of diet might have been accu- 
rately ascertained. Yet it is apparently of so little consequence, 
in the opinion of those who have studied it and investigated it 
most closely, that in Sir William Gowers' classical work, which 
investigates over 3,000 cases, the subject of dietetic treatment 
is discussed and dismissed in little over a page. And when we 
consider our ignorance of the causes of epilepsy, this is scarcely 
to be wondered at. We know^the disease only in its manifesta- 
tions, the occurrence of convulsive seizures or attacks of uncon- 
sciousness of varying duration, and we know little or nothing 
of its underlying causes. Apparently, the necessary condition 
of the epileptic fit is an unstable state of certain cells in the 
brain cortex, a tendency in those cells to discharge, so as to 
give rise to convulsive movements of the muscles which they 
subserve, or to discharge in such a way as to leave other cells 
on a lower level of development free from the restraining influ- 
ence of the higher cells. Further, these irritable cells seem to 
act as a fulminant, and so cause discharge in cells which are 
contiguous to them, cells in every respect healthy, yet which 
are induced to discharge by their unstable and excitable neigh- 



702 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

hours. It can readily be understood that their excitability is 
rendered obvious by different conditions. 

There seems to be little doubt among different observers 
that emotional disturbance is one of the most common excitants 
of an epileptic fit. Any fright, any unusual excitement, any 
depressing emotion may determine a fit ; yet it would not be 
correct to say that such an emotion might cause it. Similarly, 
a blow or a fall, that is, a physical shock as well as a psychical 
effect, may determine an attack, and so may any influence 
which modifies the circulation either by stimulating or depres- 
sing it. And this consideration probably explains the occur- 
rence and recurrence of so-called nocturnal fits of epilepsy. 
Nothing is more striking, in investigating such nocturnal attacks, 
than the fact that, although they nearly always occur during 
the night, there are occasional diurnal attacks. Yet, on investi- 
gation, these diurnal attacks will be found to occur almost 
invariably during sleep, a chance sleep in which the patient 
has indulged during the day. So that such attacks of what 
is usually called nocturnal epilepsy are much more correctly 
to be described as attacks of epilepsy occurring during sleep, 
and the fact that they do so is, in all likelihood, to be ascribed 
to some modification of the circulation which occurs during 
sleep, giving rise to a condition of things which leads to a dis- 
charge from the unstable cortical cells. A curious confirma- 
tion of this view of epileptic fits occurring during sleep is to be 
found in the marked efficacy of cardiac stimulants like digi- 
talis and nux vomica, in combination with bromides, in the 
treatment of those attacks. 

Toxic conditions also are frequently an effective agent in 
evoking epileptic fits. Absinthe we know in experimental 
researches as one of the most effective producers of convulsion. 
It is not unlikely that, taken, as it frequently is, as a pick-me- 
up or appetizer, it may have a similar tendency to cause dis- 
charge in cells already predisposed. So also in uraemia, con- 
vulsions occur in no way distinguishable from epileptic convul- 
sions. These two the poison of absinthe and the poison of 
uraemia are characteristic examples of exogenous and endo- 
genous poisons producing convulsions. One cannot help asking 




DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 703 

the question Does diet, or does any article of diet, especially 
in excess, produce some poison which may conceivably act in 
the same way as either of those ? Much has been said and 
written about uric acid and its effects in producing nervous 
symptoms. Latterly, the pendulum has swung in the opposite 
direction, and now carbo-hydrates and purin bodies are the 
fashionable noxious agents. At different times, and by different 
observers, milk diet, a diet of milk, starchy food and vegetables, 
a purely vegetarian diet, a purin-free diet, and an ordinary 
mixed diet of bread and milk and vegetables have been vaunted 
as the diet most suitable for epileptics. The only point upon 
which all observers seem to be agreed is, that an excessive meat 
diet is bad for epileptics, just as it is probably injurious for 
other people. 

There are certain general considerations to be dealt with 
in discussing the diet suitable to any particular disease such 
as epilepsy. First of all must be considered the individual 
idiosyncrasy. There is no doubt that some patients can take 
with impunity more animal food than others. The same is 
true, in a less degree, of starchy food. Some patients, even 
epileptics, are better with a considerable quantity of animal 
food : others are undoubtedly best without it and thrive on 
milk, eggs and vegetables. The vegetarian diet alone is, in my 
experience, bad. It leads to weakness, anaemia, and general 
debility, and through this, not infrequently, to an increase in 
the number of fits. But in reference to any dietary it must 
always be remembered that an epileptic is very often not only 
hungry and greedy, but frequently voracious, and that much 
care and judgment have to be used in reference to his food, no 
matter what diet is decided upon. My own experience has 
led me very definitely to believe that epileptics, as a rule, are 
best with a good mixed diet of meat, milk and vegetable food. 
I am also strongly of opinion that care must be used to prevent 
the patient from overe-ating, and to ensure that the food shall 
be good, simple, and well cooked. Beef, as a general rule, is 
to be avoided, but mutton, chicken, game, milk, and starchy 
food may be given in fair quantity. Pastry should be avoided. 
Cheese may be given in moderate quantity, but alcohol is prac- 



704 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tically inadmissible. A purin-free diet has lately been advo- 
cated, but is by no means a panacea, though probably useful 
in certain cases, and in those probably only for a certain time. 
The exclusion of salt has also been urged, especially in patients 
taking bromides. It has been said that such an exclusion tends 
to make bromides more effective in their action, but this is 
doubtful, and in the series of cases which I observed at Queen 
Square some years ago it could not be stated that patients de- 
prived of salt did better with similar doses of bromide than did 
those who took salt regularly. Yet in reference to this also, 
considering the claims that have been made for the effects of 
this omission of salt, it is probable that individuals do occa- 
sionally progress better under such a regime. 

In some cases of epilepsy the fits occur only in the early 
morning, often while the patient is dressing. When this is the 
case, the patient should have a light meal a cup of milk and 
a biscuit, or a cup of tea and a biscuit, or some coffee and milk 
half an hour before getting out of bed. This meal should 
be immediately followed by a dose of bromide ; and in such 
cases, which are by no means uncommon, this mode of treatment 
is usually crowned with complete and permanent success. 

My experience, then, of diet in epilepsy has led me definitely 
to conclude that it is necessary, in order to get the best results, 
to treat each case of epilepsy on its merits. In certain cases 
it will be found best to give a light diet, consisting of milk, eggs, 
starchy food, and vegetables, and whatever dose of bromide is 
necessary to control the attacks. In other cases and these 
I believe to be so numerous as to constitute a large majority 
a mixed diet, of meat, fish, milk, eggs, and vegetables, well 
but simply cooked, will be found best : while in others it may 
be found advantageous to give a dietary as free as possible from 
purin bodies. It is impossible to lay down a definite rule for 
all epileptics, yet in the majority, a simple mixed diet, by no 
means too abundant, will be found best. In some cases the 
omission of common salt may be found to allow the bromide 
which is given to act with advantage ; but in this, even more 
than in most morbid conditions, one has to remember that the 
patient has to be treated, as well as the disease. 




DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 705 

Graves' disease is one of the diseases which, on account of 
the obvious derangement of certain parts of the nervous system, 
is usually included amongst nervous diseases. The diet, in some 
cases of this disease, assumes much importance because of the 
rapid wasting which takes place. And this is especially true 
of cases in which violent attacks of diarrhoea, occur repeatedly. 
Such cases are probably the most serious of all cases of this 
disease ; they are certainly the most anxious that we have to 
deal with. When diarrhoea is present, the simplest milk food 
is practically all that is admissible, and this should be combined 
with lime-water, and in cases in which the diarrhoea is very 
severe, should even be peptonized. In ordinary cases of Graves' 
disease it has not been usual to pay any greater attention to 
diet than the general or special symptoms render necessary. 
Lately, however, a substance called Rodagen, an extract of 
milk obtained from goats from which the thyroid gland has 
been removed, has been used in the treatment of Graves' disease. 
Apparently it is not very effective in controlling the symptoms, 
although, according to Dr. Hector Mackenzie, it was seen in 
some cases to be followed by improvement, at least, in the general 
condition of the patient. Its use, however, and its mode of 
preparation have suggested to Dr. Mackenzie the desirability 
of trying the effect or helpfulness of a dietary in those cases, 
obtained from sources into which thyroid secretion does not 
enter. So he does not give his patients with Graves' disease 
milk in any quantity, and they have no beef, mutton, or veal. 
They are allowed all kinds of fish, fat bacon, chicken, eggs, 
fresh fruit, cream, butter, bread, and carb-ohydrates generally. 
And under this dietary free, it will be seen, from anything 
into which thyroid secretion can enter, he believes that his 
patients do well. And, of t course, if the practical effect is good, 
it certainly has theoretical considerations to recommend it. 

So far as dietetics are concerned, a most important class of 
nervous diseases is that large class, perhaps increasing in numbers; 
under the strain and stress imposed upon the nervous system 
in present day modes of life, of disorders of the function of dif- 
ferent parts of the nervous system without any organic or struc- 
tural change appreciable by our present methods, in the anatomy 

45 



706 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of that system. To this large class of cases the term " neu- 
rasthenia" is now generally applied, but it is almost certain 
that as our experience of such cases enables us to recognize 
the different directions in which disorder of the nervous system 
may distribute itself, this class will naturally subdivide itself. 
into several groups or varieties. Even now we are able to per- 
ceive varieties, somewhat indistinctly it is true, and to trace 
a gradation from comparatively trivial, unimportant disturb- 
ances of the nervous system, through profound and prolonged 
disorder, to cases in which it is difficult to draw a distinct line 
between so-called neurasthenic states and the grave functional 
disturbances of the nervous system which we know as mental 
disorders. It is desirable to refer briefly to the varieties of neu- 
rasthenia, in order to discriminate, as clearly as may be, between 
those cases in which dietetic rules and regulations are useful, 
and even curative, and those in which they are of comparatively 
little use. 

Cerebral neurasthenia is that variety in which a condition 
of incapacity for work and for responsibility has been induced 
by excessive mental work, by constant and onerous responsi- 
bility, usually associated with much worry and anxiety, and 
emotional strain, perhaps, in reference to family or financial 
affairs. The patient usually complains of constant headache, 
yet when the headache is analysed, it is found to consist rather 
in abnormal cephalic sensations, not of a strictly painful char- 
acter. Weight at the top of the head is frequently complained 
of, and pain and discomfort at the back of the head and in the 
neck is another frequent symptom. Unusual sounds on move- 
ment of the head are complained of, and some degree of tinnitus 
is often present. The patient is seen to be in a curiously sensi- 
tive condition. He is conscious of 9 sensations which in the 
healthy are not perceived at all ; ordinary duties assume an 
exaggerated aspect ; he hesitates to come to any decision, being 
pulled first in one direction and then in another by the various 
considerations which come before him. He not only sees things 
through an enlarging medium, he sees them also distorted out 
of their true relations and their relative importance, and he is 
quite unable to use his judgment. Such a condition, from its 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 707 

very nature, is apt, unless forcibly interrupted by a complete 
cessation of work and by a change of environment, to perpetuate 
and intensify itself. The patient's bodily condition suffers, he 
becomes thin, loses his appetite and his sleep, and is in danger 
of becoming a chronic invalid. 

In the so-called spinal form of neurasthenia the symptoms 
are mostly of the nature of what might be called spinal irrita- 
tion. There is frequently pain of a severe character in the 
back, often throughout the length of the spine, but in many 
cases much intensified in the cervical region and in the region 
of the coccyx. With this pain is frequently associated weakness 
in the lower limbs, and a tendency to jerking and irritability 
of them. The knee-jerks are usually very active ; there may 
be some pseudo-clonus present, but the plantar reflex is not 
of the extensor type, and indeed it may be difficult, or even impos- 
sible, to elicit any reflex at all from the sole. Such cases as 
this are frequently traumatic in origin, the so-called " railway 
spine." Yet it must be acknowledged that frequently all those 
signs and symptoms are present, yet without any previous acci- 
dent, and without any pending action for damages. So that 
it is very important not to be misled into considering such cases 
in which an action is pending as necessarily or inevitably " con- 
structive " in character. Head pains, especially in the occipital 
region, are frequently associated with these spinal symptoms, 
and this fact goes to show that the classification which is at- 
tempted here is, in a great degree, artificial in character. 

Although those two classes of neurasthenia are fairly dis- 
tinct, numerous cases occur in which both sets of symptoms 
are present, one set, perhaps, predominating. And in reference 
to cases of so-called sexual neurasthenia, in which the patient's 
thoughts are much occupied with the misinterpretation of sexual 
sensations, or with the fear and apprehension of sexual impo- 
tence, or with remorse for some form of sexual depravity and 
dread of its consequences in these cases also the sensations 
and symptoms described in the cerebral and spinal types may 
be present. So that in neurasthenia it must be recognized 
that we are dealing with a malady of numerous phases, and 
that the symptoms depend upon a condition of weakness or 



708 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

exhaustion of the nervous system, in any or all its parts, and 
that this is associated with a strong introspective tendency 
which exaggerates and perverts and distorts any symptoms 
which may be present. 

There is a large and important group of cases to which Weir 
Mitchell first called attention, consisting of the most part of 
women, who have become thin, dyspeptic and anaemic, who 
are unable to take exercise without excessive fatigue, in whom 
slight exertion causes palpitation or actual distress, or who are 
frequently " highly-strung " and emotional. In many such 
cases the determining cause of ill-health has been some pro- 
longed strain of anxiety in reference to illness of a near and 
often a dear relation, frequently combined with the actual 
nursing of the relation. When one considers the frequently 
exacting character of the duties which such a one imposes upon 
herself the irregular and often scanty meals, the long hours 
of devoted duty in a sickroom, the absence of fresh air and of 
exercise and the ever present anxiety it is not to be wondered 
at that ill-health is often the result. And one also has to remem- 
ber how frequently chronic illness breeds selfishness and how 
such a patient often becomes an actual " vampire," as Oliver 
Wendell Holmes puts it, to all about her, and most of all to 
those most devoted to her. It is not to be wondered at that 
so often the termination of such an illness leaves several of the 
household in a condition of almost complete prostration. No 
doubt, it is the case that occasionally under judicious manage- 
ment by means of change, and variety, and care, such cases of 
exhaustion get well without any recourse to special treatment. 
Yet in others the condition does not improve, pain and dyspepsia 
and even local uterine trouble may be superadded, too much 
attention may be paid to this as a cause of illness when it is 
merely a symptom, and salvation may be sought at the hands 
of the gynaecologist. But it must be added that nowadays 
many gynaecologists recognize the condition and take steps 
to remedy it" by the general line of treatment which will be 
alluded to presently. 

There is one variety of the condition to which particular 
attention should be called. It was first described by Sir Wil- 



liam Gull under the name of anorexia nervosa, and the trying 
conditions alluded to above as so frequently productive of the 
condition are by no means an invariable precursor in this variety. 
The subject of it is usually a girl between the ages of seventeen 
and twenty-five, although I have known it occur in a woman 
over thirty. The patients are usually energetic, and not infre- 
quently have some particular hobby to which they are devoted. 
Carelessness about food and the absence of any compelling 
appetite lead to irregularity in feeding, the meals become scrappy 
and meagre and the patient gradually wastes. The loss of 
appetite grows, food becomes positively distasteful, and even 
moderate indulgence in it leads to nausea or actual retching, 
and the vomiting of a little mucus. The patient becomes still 
thinner, weakness is superadded, walking becomes more and 
more difficult, but even when extreme emaciation has occurred 
the patient may still be able to walk about. But she is then 
nothing more than a living skeleton, and she seems to be in the 
last stage of phthisis, although there is no cough and no evidence 
of lung disease. Such a patient may actually die, apparently 
simply exhausted, or she may become infected with some malady 
which will bring about death. Yet if she is taken in hand and 
treated properly, she will become quite well, and any one who 
has watched such a case get well will confess that no more grati- 
fying experience can be met with in medicine than the cure of 
such a condition. 

In reference to all those varieties of neurasthenia and it 
must be remembered that either sex may suffer rest, change 
of environment, abundant feeding, and such drugs and food 
as will improve the condition of the blood, comprise the methods 
of treatment. Yet it is only by working out the details of such 
treatment with judgment and care, and adapting them to the 
individual case, that success will be obtained. In many cases 
it will be sufficient to send the patients away to a bracing place 
with some suitable companion who will see that the directions 
as to fresh air, exercise and abundant food, are carried out. 
Those are the milder cases in which no prolonged building up 
may be necessary men and women who still retain their recu- 
perative capacity, who have not developed the achings, the 



710 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tiredness, the actual inability to walk and the restlessness and 
sleeplessness which characterize the worst cases ; they are 
simple cases to deal with, although even in such it is often a 
good plan to put the patient to bed for a week, to feed her up, 
and if she fails to assimilate her food to let her walk for an hour 
each day or have massage for two hours. 

In severe cases of neurasthenia, however, such a simple 
plan is inadmissible. The various aches of the patient, her 
weak and ansemic condition, her inability to walk even, without 
experiencing disagreeable and trying palpitation, all make 
such an active treatment impossible. For such patients what 
has to be done is to adopt some means of getting them into good 
condition. This can only be done by rest and by abundant 
feeding. Yet rest with abundant feeding and without exercise 
in such cases will soon bring discomfort and dyspepsia, and so 
make the condition worse. So that a substitute has to be found 
for the exercise which the patient is too weak to take but which 
is necessary if the food is to be assimilated. This substitute 
for active exercise is found in passive exercise massage of the 
muscles rubbing and kneading and pinching them, forcing 
blood through them and leading to such changes in their meta- 
bolism, and in that of the organs generally, as would be effected 
by vigorous active exercise. Another adjuvant in this matter 
is electricity. The use of a strong but not painful faradic cur- 
rent in such cases is helpful. It causes muscular action without 
fatigue, and although it is certainly not so useful as massage, 
it is by no means to be despised for its active physical effects. 

It will now be desirable to go into some detail with refer- 
ence to the care and treatment of one of these severe cases. 
The patient must, of course, be separated from her friends and 
her habitual environment, and she must have as a nurse a capable, 
kind, and sympathetic but unemotional person. All letters 
must be forbidden, even the daily paper stopped, and the treat- 
ment should be carried out in a large, well-lighted, airy room. 
Absolute rest in bed is essential. The patient is not, at first 
at least, allowed out of bed for any purpose, and for the first 
three days nothing is to be given except milk and rusks. The milk 
should be given in quantities of 4 oz. every two hours at first, but 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 711 

the total quantity in twenty-four hours should be increased in 
three days to 2 quarts. It is undesirable to wake the patient in 
the night, but her milk should be placed by her bed and she must 
drink it if she wakes. After three days of this simple diet of 
milk and rusks a small morning meal is given a little fish and 
bread and butter, and bread and butter with milk in the evening. 
Then two days later, i.e. on the fifth day of treatment, a cutlet 
may be given in the middle of the day, and in two or three days 
more three light meals should be taken in addition to the 
2 quarts of milk. The character of the meals can be left to the 
patient and nurse, but fat bacon and an egg in the morning, a 
chop or cutlet and stewed fruit and cream in the middle of the 
day, and fish with butter-sauce in the evening, will indicate 
the kind of meals desirable. 

All this time, of course, the massage and electrical treat- 
ment go on, the first day twenty minutes' massage morning and 
afternoon or evening should be given, next day half an hour 
twice daily, and on the fifth day an hour twice daily. The 
faradic current should be used twice daily for a quarter of an 
hour at a time. At the end of ten days raw meat- juice should 
be given, 1 oz. daily. If it is very unpalatable to the patient, 
it can often be easily given in milk, or the meat may be quickly 
cooked on the outside and the juice squeezed out. Such juice 
from partly-cooked meat is much less unpalatable than the 
real raw meat- juice. 

There is, of course, often trouble with the bowels. A dose 
of calomel is usually desirable about the third day, but after 
that it is usually easy to regulate the bowels with the fruit and 
butter and cream, or if that is insufficient, a small nightly dose 
of cascara and nux vomica will usually suffice. 

Difficulties are, of course, encountered in most cases, but 
with the rationale of the treatment the combination of rest 
with the assimilation of much nourishing food before one's 
eyes, these difficulties will usually vanish. The patient's objec- 
tions to going on have sometimes to be overcome, but as a rule 
they are not serious the chief difficulty being usually, in the 
first place, to obtain consent to the treatment. When a patient 
has once definitely made up her mind to go through with it, 



712 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the occasional objections that she afterwards raises are, as a 
rule, easily overcome. 

Such are the methods to be followed in cases subjected to 
this treatment, and in many of them the results are most satis- 
factory and striking. Yet there are others in which disappoint- 
ment is met with. These are cases usually in which the habit 
of absence of effort and initiative is deeply ingrained, and although 
temporary success is sometimes met with in those, a relapse into 
the old condition is apt to occur. 

With reference to the cases of anorexia nervosa to which 
reference has been made, these must be treated on exactly the 
same lines as those just described. The desideratum in these 
cases, as in the others, is to fatten the patient and to improve 
the condition of the blood. The fattening process is usually 
rapid, and I have known a case of this character weighing 4| 
stone on admission to the Home go out in eight weeks' time 
weighing just twice as much. 

This treatment by rest, isolation, massage and abundant 
feeding is also of the greatest use in most cases of traumatic 
neurasthenia whether with predominating cerebral or spinal 
symptoms. In the severer cases, as a rule, such treatment is 
inefficacious, although occasionally modified success is met 
with. And it may be stated, as a general rule, that in all cases 
of depraved and lowered nerve function treatment of this char- 
acter, the object of which is by improving nutrition to restore 
a normal condition of the nervous system, is to be strongly 
urged. It may not be invariably successful, but it will succeed 
in the majority of cases of neurasthenia in effecting a complete 
'Cure, and in the others it nearly always leads to very definite 
improvement. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 



CHAPTER XXIV 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 
BY T. COLCOTT Fox, M.B., F.R.C.P. 

General considerations. In a discussion of the dietetic 
treatment of diseases of the integumentary system we are faced 
with the uncertainty or complicated etiology of many of them. 
To enable the reader to attack the problems under discussion 
with the knowledge that we at present possess, it will be con- 
venient to survey the morbid processes according to the etio- 
logical classification arranged by Louis Brocq of the Hopital 
St. Louis in Paris. It will be apparent that in a large number 
of cases the diet, though not without importance, is a secondary 
or minor factor in the treatment, yet it has to be adjusted in 
relation to the different stages of the malady or complicating 
lesions of important organs. But there are affections, such 
as pellagra and some forms of urticaria, directly associated 
with a diet which is noxious to the patient, and it is very neces- 
sary to realize that in many skin eruptions the predisposition 
or vulnerability of the soil is an all important factor, and may 
be contributed to by improper diet or imperfect metabolism 
of foods. Then again the excessive use of alcohol notoriously 
helps to render eruptions aggressive and intractable, and in 
some people leads to the excessive formation of fat, diffuse or 
in peculiar tumours, and such persons are liable to acquire a 
vulnerability of the skin leading to rupture of the elastic tissue 
and the condition known as linear atrophy. 

I propose in this chapter to indicate chiefly the general 
principles on which dieting in the various skin diseases should 
be arranged, for the details of diets proper for gouty, obese, 

diabetic and other subjects will appear elsewhere in the book. 

m 



716 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The important thing is to grasp the principles on which special 
diets are indicated, and then the observer can fill in the details, 
for as will be seen some cases differ greatly in the complexity 
of their etiology. 

GROUP I, entitled the trae morbid entities, includes the class 
of artificial dermatoses due to external causes such as trau- 
matisms, mechanical, physical, chemical ; irritating secretions 
as in intertrigo and the dermatitis genitalium from diabetic 
urine ; artefact lesions ; and the huge group of occupation 
dermatoses. It is important to realize the fact that damage 
and reaction may vary with the vulnerability of the soil, and 
a well regulated bland diet is desirable in the treatment, and to 
prevent recurrences, for some irritants are only effective when 
acting on a vulnerable soil. It is our daily experience to see a 
washerwoman or scrubber go unscathed for years, and then 
her health deteriorates from some cause, and the irritants encoun- 
tered in her occupation excite a dermatitis. We shall have 
something more to say on this point when we speak of eczema. 
In chilblains we see the vulnerable soil due to a weak circulation, 
which is often associated with poor nutrition, and the excitant 
in the onset of cold weather. It is evident that the general 
nutrition should be fostered by generous feeding, including 
much fatty diet. 

The dermatoses excited by ingested aliments and medicaments 
are next to be considered. Here an inherited or acquired vulner- 
ability often comes into play. It is well known that certain 
articles of diet disagree temporarily or persistently with some 
people, e.g. strawberries, or tea or coffee, and again certain 
foods may on occasion contain special poisons, as diseased maize, 
mussels, tinned foods and pies. 

The second class of Group I comprises the numerous and 
important diseases excited by animal and vegetable parasites. 
Some are superficial and unassociated with any toxic poisoning 
which we can trace, such as the mould parasitic affections of 
the epidermis, and it is not known that diet can in any way 
influence the growth of the parasites, although certain local 
conditions favour their growth. For instance, the microsporon 
loves the child's hair, and the parasite causing tinea versicolor 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 717 

likes covered warm perspiring parts of the body, and it thus 
not infrequently attacks delicate people who clothe warmly, 
such as those predisposed to tuberculosis. Hence the presence 
of this disease may give a hint for good feeding to improve the 
general nutrition. Of the microbic infections streptococci, 
causing the common impetigo contagiosa, and the so-called 
pemphigus neonatorum, and staphylococci causing the pustular 
impetigo, boils and carbuncles, may set up a notable toxic poison- 
ing, and rarely a general infection. There are qualities of the 
soil which offer a diminished resistance to the growth of these 
organisms, which may vary in virulence, and therefore it is 
important in addition to the specific treatment to strengthen 
the nutrition by plenty of good food. The existence of diabetes 
or glycosuria is well known to favour the growth of staphylo- 
cocci, and demands the appropriate dieting for these conditions. 
Though the proof of its parasitic nature is not absolutely assured, 
I mention here the very common phases of pityriasis of the 
scalp and other parts including the " flannel rash," states, 
nowadays often described as eczema seborrhoeicum or seborr- 
hoeides. I do not recognize that any special diet influences 
these eruptions. Then we come to the more formidable infective 
granulomata, such as tuberculosis, syphilis and leprosy. There 
is no special diet indicated in these infections, but a building 
up, as far as possible, of the general nutrition. Modifications 
are of course called for in different stages, such as acute febrile 
phases, implication of important organs, and so on. 

The phase of tuberculosis known as lupus vulgaris, constantly 
illustrates for us the importance of attending to the deficient 
resistance of the soil. It often occurs in persons who have 
inherited a deficient standard of nutrition with a feeble circula- 
tion, and there is added to this a chronic poisoning from the 
tubercle bacilli and the wounds which may be produced. Such 
patients require to be placed under the most favourable con- 
ditions as regards diet, in order to increase the resistance of the 
tissues as far as possible. Fatty foods are an important indica- 
tion. In regard to syphilis a special point to be noted in regard 
to diet is that the state of the gastro-intestinal tract must be 
carefully supervised and green vegetables given with caution 



718 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

whilst mercury is being pushed. Lastly, there are acute febrile 
infections, such as acute pemphigus, and the infective purpuras 
which must be dieted like the acute specific fevers. 

GROUP II includes a huge heterogeneous group of derma- 
toses which Brocq characterizes as cutaneous reactions. An 
eruption very similar hi appearance may be excited by several 
causes, and possibly one and the same cause may set up different 
types of reaction. The etiology is often complicated or obscure 
and some of the factors determining the phase of reaction often 
escape our recognition. It is in some of these reactions that 
dermatologists most strongly advocate special diets, and though 
such treatment has a sure foundation in some cases, in others 
the dieting is largely due to the belief arising from exclusion of 
other agencies that a metabolic disturbance must be the cause. 

Class I of this group consists of the cutaneous reactions 
proper, and includes a series of reactions with pruritus as a lead- 
ing symptom, e.g. the functional disorder known as pruritus, 
.uncomplicated or associated with a special vulnerability of 
the skin leading to inflammatory or other reactions known as 
lichenification, urticaria, acute circumscribed oedema, auto- 
graphism, lichen urticatus and the prurigos, eczema, dermatitis 
herpetiformis, and generalized erythrodermias. 

Pruritus, or the symptom of itching, is due to disturbance 
of function of the sensory nerves, and may occur quite apart 
from any co-existent eruption which involves these nerves. 
The conditions determining the pruritus may be innate or 
acquired in the nervous system, and in certain persons whose 
sensory nerves are, so to speak, on edge all sorts of slight influ- 
ences may excite itching, such as undressing, the warmth of 
bed, a bath, cold, etc. Then the symptom may be excited 
reflexly as exemplified in the nasal and anal itching due to thread 
worms in the lower bowel. The sensory nerves again may be 
disturbed by the circulation in the tissue of noxious products 
elaborated in the system, as in diabetes and jaundice, or accu- 
mulated by faulty elimination. Sometimes people have an 
idiosyncrasy against certain articles of diet, and tea and coffee 
are not infrequently incriminated. In the common senile 
pruritus it is often difficult to estimate the relative potency of 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 719 

such factors as atrophic skin changes, metabolic disorders, and 
inefficient elimination. Obviously where the diet or digestive 
organs are in any way at fault or the elimination of waste pro- 
ducts imperfect, we must meet the difficulties by an appro- 
priate diet. In some intractable cases it is advisable to try 
for a period some special diet, such as the milk, or lacto-vege- 
tarian, or Salisbury cure. 

Urticaria is the result of a special kind of reaction of the 
skin in which the vaso-motor nerve system is specially involved, 
and may be excited by external or internal irritants, directly 
as in a nettle sting, or reflexly in some visceral irritation (stomach 
and genital organs). It is well known that some poisons, e.g. 
that formed in certain mussels, may be powerful enough to 
induce the vaso-motor trouble in any one ingesting the food. 
There are persons also who, temporarily or persistently, have 
an idiosyncrasy against certain articles of diet, or whose digest- 
ive power is, at any rate for a time, imperfect for such food, 
and in them this special reaction is excited, though such articles 
of diet are innocuous to the general run of people. Toxins 
formed in the intestines are also incriminated. On the other 
hand, the cutaneous vaso-motor nerve system seems to be in 
a very unstable condition, and then the slightest stimuli produce 
the wheals. A striking example of this is seen in autographism ; 
and in the effects of undressing or getting warm in bed in certain 
subjects. Of late years the state of the blood has been investi- 
gated in cases of urticaria, and in some instances found deficient 
in coagulation power, readily allowing " serous haemorrhages." 
Alcoholism has a special tendency to impair the tone of the 
vaso-motor nerves, and also acts by causing gastro-intestinal 
and liver troubles. From these remarks the lesson will be 
learnt that in urticaria we must thoroughly investigate the 
state of the nervous system, inherited or acquired, and look 
carefully for an exciting cause in the food intake and digestion, 
and examine the urine for evidences of imperfect elimination, 
and correct what is wrong by insisting on a diet simple in quan- 
tity and quality. In some distressing chronic cases it will be 
found expedient to experiment for a time with a special dietary, 
as milk, lacto-vegetarian, etc. 



720 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Lichen urticatus and the prurigos are closely related to urti- 
caria, and here again we meet with a highly susceptible vaso- 
motor or sensory nerve system set in action by a variety of 
excitants, which often elude our investigation. Lichen urti- 
catus is a recurrent eruption of early childhood, and often 
proves most intractable. It especially evolves in the evening. 
After the exclusion of all possible external excitants, such as 
irritating and heating clothing and fleas, it is desirable to minutely 
investigate the functioning of the gastro-intestinal tract with 
a view to seeing that the digestion is well performed, and that 
no poisonous excitants are elaborated. The quantity and 
quality of the food must be carefully adjusted according to the 
age of the child. Some French authors insist on the frequency 
of dilatation of the stomach. The prurigos are characterized 
by the repeated formation of itching papules with many analo- 
gies with the wheal, and the reaction is met with under several 
conditions. In the commoner form beginning in childhood, 
there seems to be an ingrained state of cutaneous nerve insta- 
bility, so that the eruption may be lifelong. The subjects of 
this eruption are characteristically pallid and spare. Here, 
again, as for lichen urticatus we protect the skin from all external 
excitement, and endeavour to prevent any possible source of 
irritation by careful dieting, and seeing that the gastro-intestinal 
functions are perfectly carried out. As in the other reactions 
in which the cutaneous nervous system is especially involved, 
a protection of the skin by an occlusive dressing goes far to 
stop the evolution of eruption, and seems to point to the import- 
ance of external irritation. Nevertheless the existence of 
dyspeptic and metabolic troubles has a strong hold on the 
profession, at any rate as a predisposing cause. 

Eczema is an inflammatory reaction of the skin of a different 
type, and probably due to a diversity of causes, often compli- 
cated. For a patient may inherit a state of nutrition predis- 
posing to it, or acquire such by his habits and mode of life, 
and then various exciting causes come into play and complete 
the story. Eczema is not a parasitic disease, although the 
pyogenic cocci find a congenial soil in the inflammatory area, 
and are frequently a cause of the persistence of the trouble. 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 721 

To repeat what we have said about other reactions it is important 
to bear in mind that, although many irritants are potent enough 
to inflame any skin (see ARTIFICIAL DERMATOSES), there are 
states of malnutrition brought about by inherited or acquired 
influences which make the skin abnormally vulnerable. In 
such cases external irritants of little potency, such as a cold 
wind or sun exposure, will suffice to excite an eczema. Thus 
we constantly observe masons, bakers, polishers, lauodry- 
women, scrubbers, etc., who suddenly become attacked with 
eczema, because the resistance of their skin tissues has diminished 
from various causes. These causes comprise all the factors 
that go to make up the mode of life and inherited tendencies. 
Thus we find associated with the eczema reaction such states 
as anaemia, gout, liver and gastro-intestinal disorders, oxaluria, 
lithiasis, diabetes, obesity, asthma, chronic bronchitis and 
interstitial nephritis. It is almost universally held that various 
disorders of metabolism, the excessive intake of foods or certain 
foods especially with a sedentary life, and deficient elimination 
may strongly predispose to eczema, and it is possible that 
certain toxic products may actually be the excitants, but our 
knowledge is not very sure on this point. Certain it is that 
we meet with many cases in which no clue to external excite- 
ment can be traced, and on the other hand it is sometimes impos- 
sible to detect any metabolic disorder. The state of the nervous 
system probably has a marked influence, either directly or 
indirectly, in the causation of certain cases of eczema. We 
meet with it in neurotic individuals who live carefully, and 
attacks seem to be excited sometimes by strong mental strain. 
It will be gathered from these remarks that in planning a 
treatment for a case of eczema it will be desirable to make an 
exhaustive examination into the general health of the subject, 
and the functioning of the various organs, especially the gastro- 
intestinal tract, liver and kidneys ; to note the mode of life 
and habits, especially as regards the quality and quantity of 
the diet, the consumption of alcohol and amount of tobacco 
smoked. The diet arranged must obviously depend to some 
extent on the condition present, whether gout, diabetes, etc. 
Eczema may occur in low states of nutrition from want of proper 

46 



722 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

food ; on the other hand, in most cases it is well to impress 
the necessity of slow mastication ; to diminish the quantity 
of food ; to take easily digestible bland foods such as, for dinner, 
a sole, chicken and milk pudding ; to avoid pig flesh, sweets, 
pastry, and fruits, piquant sauces, oily fish, curries, and to cut 
off alcohol or greatly limit its use. A little sound whisky, if 
any alcohol, is usually allowed. Salted foods are very commonly 
prohibited, and tea and coffee may not agree. In acute and 
obstinate cases it is useful to cut down the meals to a minimum, 
and even for a time put the patient on special diet (milk, lacto- 
vegetarianj etc.), the details of which are given elsewhere. 

As for the very common and troublesome infantile eczema 
we ought to be in a position to understand the etiology, for 
many complicated factors acquired by the adult are absent. 
Nevertheless, we are very far from thoroughly understanding 
the etiology. Allowing that the cutaneous nervous system 
is in an excitable condition in the infant, we have two cate- 
gories of provocatives, external irritants of various kinds and 
gastro-intestinal troubles often due to improper feeding as 
regards quantity and quality. It is therefore of the first import- 
ance to have the child fed on proper principles in every respect. 
Some of the most troublesome cases are those in which infants 
seem to have idiosyncrasies against certain foods. Having 
spent a large portion of my life in observing babies suffering 
from eczema, I have watched many who were apparently, apart 
from their eczema, perfectly healthy in every respect and pro- 
perly fed ; and in my opinion a great deal of so-called infantile 
eczema belongs to the pityriasis group and is purely a skin 
disease, except that the susceptibility of the soil is important. 
It is notable that the eczema so frequently commences by the 
scalp, and descends over the face and elsewhere. It is often 
characterized by pityriasic patches which become readily " ecze- 
matized " by external irritation, and is then indistinguishable 
from true eczema. 

Dermatitis herpetifonnis, formerly included with pemphigus, 
is an uncommon eruption of which the etiology is often obscure. 
Some cases are thought to be from nervous breakdown, or from 
intestinal auto-intoxication inferred from the eosinophilia of 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 723 

the blood and indicanuria. However that may be, a careful 
nutritious diet is called for. 

Lichen planus of E. Wilson is also generally considered to 
be dependent on the state of the nervous system. This opinion 
is founded on the facts that the subjects are often obviously 
neurotic, and not infrequently the eruption follows marked 
shock, emotion, worry, etc., or coincides with the climacteric 
period. The general health may be unsatisfactory, and nervous 
dyspepsia exist, which calls for careful dieting. Sometimes 
very acute cases occur, and demand a simple bland diet with 
absence of any stimulating food. 

Generalized erythrodermia is rare, and the etiology often 
obscure. It is known that various chronic skin eruptions, such 
as eczema and psoriasis may take on this severe phase, and 
such a skin condition has been seen in tuberculosis, lymphade- 
noma, and other conditions. The cutaneous vaso-motor system 
seems to lose all tone. Here again a simple, nutritious, bland 
diet is called for. 

The second section of the proper cutaneous reactions is char- 
acterized by the absence of pruritus as a dominant feature, 
and it includes such disorders as the great group of erythemata, 
herpes simplex and zoster, pemphigus, psoriasis, and pityriasis 
rubra pilaris. 

The erythemata, which vary in type from the rashes simu- 
lating those of some of the acute specific fevers to macular, 
papular, nodular, and bullous eruptions, haemorrhagic or not, 
are probably all of toxic origin. Many are certainly so, e.g. 
the serum and antitoxic rashes, the drug rashes, the pre-emptive 
and secondary rashes of the acute specific fevers, the erythemata 
of rheumatic fever, the so-called " surgical scarlet fever " and 
septicasmic eruptions, and the eruption in late Bright's disease. 
Sometimes there is only one passing attack, but it may be febrile 
and severe, and demands an appropriate diet. At other times 
the outbreaks are recurrent at irregular intervals for years, as 
in erythema (herpes) iris and the remarkable recurrent scarlati- 
niforni desquamative erythema. Obscure as the etiology of 
many of these cases is, it is important to carefully investigate 
the state and functioning of the gastro-intestinal tract, and 



724 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

to pay especial attention to the diet with a view to discover 
some error or idiosyncrasy, and so put a stop to the recurrent 
attacks. 

Lupus erythematosus may be discussed here. It is believed 
by many dermatologists to be intimately connected with tuber- 
culosis, i.e. brought about in some way by the products of 
tubercle bacilli. My own view is that it is of toxsemic origin, 
not necessarily tuberculous, but occurring in people with poor 
nutrition and weak circulation, and often no doubt with tubercu- 
lous glands. The usual indications for dieting are that these 
patients want building up and supporting by a generous and 
fatty diet. 

Herpes simplex or febrilis is well known to be excited, probably 
reflexly, about the muco-cutaneous orifices chiefly by a multi- 
tude of recurrent causes, such as the catamenia, sexual congress, 
febrile movement in colds, pneumonia, etc., and often without 
obvious cause. Herpes zoster, on the other hand, is caused by 
an inflammation of the nerve ganglia, and this may be set up 
by traumatism, or the ingestion of arsenic, but usually, it is 
thought, by a special infection. These eruptions do not call 
for special dieting. 

Pemphigus is a term applied to a collection of bullous erup- 
tions of uncertain etiology, after exclusion of the bullous phases 
of such eruptions as streptococcic impetigo, erythema multi- 
forme and lichen planus, potassium iodide dermatitis, etc. 
The only thing to be said is that, apart from the severity of 
the attack calling for special diet, it will be advisable to carefully 
investigate for any source of toxic poisoning in the intestinal 
tract. 

Pityriasis rubra pilaris is another rare relapsing eruption, 
the pathogeny of which is unknown, but there are no special 
indications for any particular diet. 

Psoriasis again, a recurrent eruption of daily observation, 
has a very obscure etiology, and it is consequently in obstinate 
cases that all sorts of diet and spa treatment are tried. Its 
parasitic origin is unproved. It has been thought to be a local 
disease of the skin which may be inherited. Many observers 
consider it symptomatic of a neurosis, but most frequently of 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 725 

some dyscrasia. The fact is psoriasis seems to be a reaction 
predisposed to or due to many kinds of causes, and consequently 
we meet with it in all sorts and conditions of people, whether 
apparently healthy and even robust, or rheumatic and gouty, 
alcoholic, plethoric, obese, and what not. The complication 
by trophic joint changes in a proportion of old-standing cases 
suggests a toxaemia, but perhaps not for all cases. Apart from 
the exciting cause or causes of psoriasis we may note the effect 
of constitutional states on it, for a fever may clear it off for a 
time. The excessive use of alcohol makes it incurable, and 
the demand on a woman's strength, when suckling, has a marked 
effect in making a psoriasis intractable or causing it to evolve. 

The upshot of all this is that, as in other reactions, a most 
careful investigation must be made into the constitution of the 
patient, the functioning of the organs, the habits and mode of 
life, and anything that is wrong should be corrected as far as 
possible. The patient should understand that any disturbance 
of the health will probably " discover " the eruption. The 
diverse states of health, such as various metabolic disturbance^ 
which may be associated with this psoriasis reaction, explains 
the benefit sometimes derived from a course at various spas 
and from strict dieting, such as is carried out at various German 
health institutes. In presence of a case of psoriasis then, it 
is desirable to prescribe a diet in relation to any improper feed- 
ing or any disordered condition present. But, although we 
have no proof that any particular diet is a cause of psoriasis, 
some dermatologists as a routine treatment recommend an 
absolutely vegetarian diet ; eggs, fish and pastry are forbidden, 
sweets limited, milk not taken with meals, and often coffee 
and tea interdicted. In severe cases, especially with trophic 
bone changes, it is certainly expedient to judiciously experiment 
with a strict vegetarian or lacto-vegetarian, or Salisbury treat- 
ment, as most favourable results have unquestionably resulted 
on occasion. 

Xanthoma is considered by some to be a neoplasm, but to 
my mind it is a special reaction of the skin brought about by 
one or more agents. We see one form occurring in various 
liver affections associated with jaundice, e.g. gall stones, and 



726 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the xanthoma may disappear with the removal of the gall stones 
and jaundice. I have seen a hypertrophic cirrhosis of the liver 
become quiescent and the liver diminishing with gradual dis- 
appearance of the xanthoma, suggesting the cessation of manu- 
facture of some toxic agent. Then we have forms of xanthoma 
associated with glycosuria and diabetes, and lastly eruptions 
without evident cause. What the toxic agent common to all 
these conditions is we do not know. The xanthoma of glyco- 
surics and diabetics is strikingly affected for the better by special 
diet. 

Acne rosacea is a term which includes so-called seborrhceic 
dermatitis of the face, but especially recurrent and the stereo- 
typed hypereemia of the face caused by constant external pro- 
ducers of local blood congestion such as sun, wind, fire, heat, 
etc., and frequently reflex from gastro-intestinal, and in the 
female, genital disorders. In the gastro-intestinal cases a 
careful dieting, and exclusion of large quantities of badly made 
tea, and excess of alcohol is most essential. 

We now come to Class II of cutaneous reactions in which the 
nervous system is prominently involved. The reaction may 
occur in course of a defined nerve lesion, as syringomyelia, 
hysteria, and dermatophobia ; or as secondary to internal secre- 
tory troubles, as exophthalmic goitre and myxcedema and Addi- 
son's disease ; or as trophoneurotic syndromata illustrated 
by such conditions as Raynaud's symptoms, erythromelalgia, 
erythromelie, scleroderma, nerve panaris, hemiatrophia facialis, 
ainhum, perforating ulcer, recurrent phylctenosis of the extre- 
mities, epidermolysis, alopecias, and secretory troubles of the 
sweat and sebaceous glands ; or as the pigmentary disturbance 
known as vitiligo or leucoderma. None of these troubles seem 
to be directly affected by diet, and, as a rule, only a rational 
diet is called for. I have often seen leucoderma in spare, delicate- 
looking children, which suggested the importance of a specially 
nutritious diet to avert .tuberculosis. In the sweat secretory 
troubles it is advisable to avoid stimulating food, and excess 
of fluid, which are apt to increase the trouble. Opinions differ 
as to the cause of acne vulgaris. It is a reaction of the period 
of evolution of puberty, and is associated with excessive out- 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE SKIN 727 

put of sebum, plugging of the sebaceous follicles, and secondary 
papulo-pustular complications from the growth of staphylococci. 
The plugs consist of a proliferation of epidermic cells in the 
mouths of the follicles enclosing, and caused by, myriads of 
micro-bacilli. Whether these bacilli, which certainly cause 
the plugging of the mouth of the follicle, are the cause of the 
seborrhcea and consecutive changes, or whether the seborrhcea 
is a functional disorder of puberty affording a congenfal soil for 
the bacilli is in dispute. These acne patients are often debili- 
tated generally, and frequently are dyspeptic and constipated, 
so that a simple bland and laxative diet is called for. Some 
French dermatologists cut off all fatty food. 

Class in comprises the cutaneous reactions characterized 
by nutrition troubles, and includes (A) changes characterized 
by exaggeration of nutrition, (a) of the epithelium as in kera- 
tosis pilaris, lichen spinulosus, keratosis follicularis vegetans, 
acanthosis nigricans, porokeratosis, and keratosis palmaris et 
plantaris ; (&) of pigment, (c) of hairs, (d) of the dermis, as 
in dermatolysis and soft naevi ; (e) of subcutaneous cellular 
tissue as in many naevi ; (B) changes characterized by 
diminution of nutrition, as in albinism, canities, alopecia, tricho- 
rexis nodosa, monilithrix, primary nail and cutaneous atrophy ; 
and (C) mixed acquired dystrophies of the hair and nails ; of 
epidermis and dermis, as in ichthyosis, xeroderma pigmentosum 
and colloid milium ; of the elastic tissue, as in pseudo-xanthoma 
elastica. There are not any special diet indications in this 
class. 

Lastly, there is Class IV of cutaneous neoplasms which need 
not be discussed. 



DIET IN OLD AGE 



CHAPTER XXV 

DIET IN OLD AGE 

BY HARRY CAMPBELL, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

The teeth of the aged. All are familiar with the toothless 
gums of the aged. In advanced age the teeth tend to loosen 
and drop out, from atrophy of the alveolar processes. This 
occurs sooner among civilized than among primitive peoples, 
owing to the insufficient use to which the teeth are put in the 
former case (whence results atrophy of the alveolar wall) and 
to the prevalence of pyorrhoea alveolaris. Complete absence of 
teeth must, indeed, have been practically unknown before the 
introduction of cookery, inasmuch as most vegetable food in the 
raw state needs abundant chewing, and it may therefore be 
regarded as certain that before the practice of cooking be- 
came common man rarely, if ever, reached the stage of edent- 
ulism. Long before his teeth had a chance of dropping out from 
senile decay, we may be sure that they were ground down to the 
gums (as may be observed in other vegetable-feeding animals) 
by the laborious chewing of dense vegetable substances, and 
by this time it must already have been very difficult to support 
life. It is probable that before the introduction of cookery the 
old were able to assist the work of their teeth by artificial 
means, such as grinding and maceration means which, it may be 
remembered, are found of great service in the feeding of old 
horses with teeth much ground down. 

In the pre-cookery period dental caries, it should here be 
observed, was practically unknown in man. 

Then came a change. With the advent of cookery survival 
was no longer so closely dependent upon dental efficiency as it 
had been, inasmuch as cooking, by breaking up the nondigest- 

7S1 



732 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

ible cellulose meshwork of the denser varieties of vegetable food, 
relieved the work of the teeth, and it became possible for people to 
survive with very inefficient teeth, or indeed, without any teeth 
at all. Nevertheless it is very doubtful whether in the early 
period of cookery before i.e. the introduction of agriculture 
life was long maintained after the teeth began to give out. 
Certain it is that edentulism must have been very rare in pre- 
agricultural times : we do not remember to have seen a single 
toothless jaw among the numerous skulls that we have examined 
of extant pre-agricultural peoples, all of whom were skilled in 
cookery. 

When the age of agriculture was reached the supply of soft 
vegetable food underwent an enormous increase, especially in the 
late or neo-agricultural period, and this rendered man in a large 
degree independent of his teeth, at the same time that it promoted 
the tendency to disease of these organs. Sound teeth being no 
longer necessary to life, and the causes of dental disease having 
greatly increased, it is not surprising that dental disease is now so 
common. Long before the teeth have an opportunity of being 
ground down to the roots, or of falling out from sheer old age, 
they are, among modern peoples, but too often rendered inefficient 
by caries, pyorrhoea alveolaris, or other causes. So much is this 
the case that, were we to lose the art of preparing our vegetable 
food, a large proportion of the people in such a country as 
our own would, without the dentist's help, either have to become 
almost wholly carnivorous or perish from starvation. 

The masticatory capacity of the edentulous. People who have 
no teeth at all are often better able to masticate than those with 
a few only, for in the former case the gums are allowed to come 
together and harden, enabling them to cope with many kinds 
of food, whereas if the mouth is furnished with teeth, no two of 
which are opposed, they are useless for purposes of mastication. 
Sometimes, indeed, a single tooth, by preventing the gums from 
meeting, may render mastication impossible. 

Crusts and hard biscuits may present some difficulty to the 
edentulous, but one which is readily overcome by soaking them 
in tea or coffee. The toothless should however be encouraged 
to retain all their starchy food in the mouth as long as possible, 



DIET IN OLD AGE 733 

and to work it about, so as to mix it thoroughly with the 
saliva. Though a good deal of the animal food can be tackled, 
it is generally found advisable to mince the meat. 

Artificial dentures for the aged. It has been suggested that the 
senile shedding of the teeth is an indication for a return to the 
diet of the toothless infant, and that the use of artificial teeth by 
the aged is apt to do harm by encouraging them to take foods 
unsuited to their years ; but though this argument seems plau- 
sible enough prima facie, when examined critically it will be 
found, like so many other plausible arguments, to have no basis 
in fact. If senile edentulism has any biological meaning at all, 
it indicates, not that nature desires a return to the diet of infancy, 
but rather that the time has come to cease eating altogether 
and to lie down and die ; for, as we have seen, under natural 
conditions edentulism implies death from starvation. 

Properly fitting dentures cannot but be of advantage to the 
aged. Modern cookery has rendered it quite as easy for unsuit- 
able food to be indulged in by the toothless as by others, whereas 
artificial teeth may be of great service by promoting the adequate 
mastication of the harder forms of desirable starchy foods. 

The period between partial and complete edentulism may be 
one of considerable difficulty as regards mastication, and here 
the dental surgeon can be of great help : directly the teeth begin 
to fall out they should be replaced one by one, if need be by 
artificial ones. This is advisable not only for the purpose of 
maintaining masticatory efficiency, but also because in this way 
the mouth is enabled gradually to become adapted to the artificial 
dentures. If the patient waits until he has lost most or all of 
his teeth before resorting to artificial ones, he will have to pass 
through a period perhaps a long one of masticatory ineffi- 
ciency, and in the end he may find it difficult, if not impossible, 
to accustom his mouth to them. 

The ideal dietary. The most suitable diet for the aged is that 
which constitutes the ideal diet for man in general. Such a 
dietary demands (a) moderation in quantity, (6) simplicity in 
quality, and (c) the avoidance of those starchy foods which are 
apt to slip into the stomach without having been first adequately 
insalivated. 



734 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

(a) Moderation. A moderate diet is one just sufficient 
(supposing the various food-stuffs fats, proteins, etc. to be 
properly balanced) to maintain a person at the lightest weight 
consistent with the most perfect health of which he is capable. 
It is manifest that any food over and above this sufficiency can 
do no good and may do harm. 

(6) Simplicity. By a simple diet is meant one consisting of 
such items as bread, plain biscuits, plain puddings, plainly cooked 
vegetables, fruit, meat, bird, fish (all plainly cooked), milk, butter, 
cheese (such as Cheddar), tea, coffee, cocoa, salt. Dishes calcu- 
lated to tickle the palate are not included in the simple diet. 
A simple diet excludes alcohol and all condiments other than salt 
and, occasionally, pepper and mustard. 

(c) Avoidance of soft starchy foods. All through life starchy 
foods should, as far as possible, be taken in a form compelling 
thorough mastication. Soft starchy foods, such as puddings, 
are only admissible on condition that they be thoroughly 
masticated. 

It is worthy of note that the diet of early man conformed to 
these three requirements. It was simple, consisting as it did of 
unprepared animal and vegetable substances ; the quantity 
was not on the whole in excess of physiological needs ; and all 
the starchy food being raw, it had to be abundantly masticated 
in order to break up the non- digestible cellulose framework and 
thus liberate the contained food-stuffs. 

When we come to compare the ideal with the actual in the 
present day, the contrast is sufficiently discouraging. Too often 
stomach and bowel are burdened with an excess of food, and 
harassed by a too great variety of it. Efficient digestion is 
rarely possible under these circumstances, and consequently 
the blood is surcharged with nutrient matter, much of which is 
in an imperfectly digested form. The tissues being thus bathed 
in an over-rich and perverted plasma, metabolism fails to proceed 
normally, and health suffers. 

In order to show the application of these remarks to the subject 
in hand, it may be well briefly to survey the changes which the 
food undergoes in its passage through the body. These changes 



DIET IN OLD AGE 735 

may be considered under three phases : digestion (i.e. the con- 
version of the ingested food into nutrient plasma), metabolism 
(i.e. the nutritive changes which the absorbed food undergoes 
in the tissues), and excretion (i.e. the removal of waste-products). 

These three functions, as we may term them, are most vigor- 
ous in youth and early adult life. Then it is that digestion is 
most vigorous, metabolism most active, and excretion most 
efficient. At forty, or thereabouts, the digestive function often 
begins to show signs of failure, and greater care has to be exercised 
in the selection of food than was before necessary. Apart from 
this there is now a greater disposition to prudence the reckless- 
ness of youth tends to depart with maturer years. Young people 
who have unrestricted choice of luxurious foods are very apt to 
upset themselves : the " stomach-ache " of Christmas time 
is as proverbial as the "dose" which follows it. This dietetic 
imprudence may survive childhood, adolescence, early adult 
life, nay, it may persist into old age, but most people have ac- 
quired some sort of dietetic wisdom by the time they have reached 
middle age. 

At this period not only does digestion often begin to lose its 
former vigour, but metabolism also shows signs of flagging ; the 
vital fire no longer blazes as it did in the days of youth. Conse- 
quently the products of katabolism are not burnt off as readily 
as they used to be, and if excretion is defective they may accumu- 
late and cause trouble. As yet, however, excretory activity 
does not show any decided signs of waning. 

With the gradual onset of old age there is a further waning of 
digestive and metabolic activity, in consequence of the degenera- 
tive changes which are set up in the tissues. With the digestive 
organs showing an appreciable increase in their fibrous elements 
and a corresponding atrophy of their epithelium, it is not surprising 
that digestion should lack its early vigour. Similar changes are 
observed throughout the tissues generally, and there is a corre- 
sponding sluggishness of metabolism the vital fire, which has 
long since ceased to blaze, now smoulders feebly, less oxygen is 
absorbed and less carbonic acid given off. Except in the case 
of definite disease of the excretory organs, it is doubtful whether 
the aged suffer in any marked degree from their inefficiency ~ 



736 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Inasmuch as after early adult life there is a steady waning 
in the ability of the organism to digest and metabolise the 
food taken, it follows that the need to conform to the 
requirements of the ideal dietary becomes with advancing years 
increasingly pressing. In early life the majority of people can 
cope with a dietary which departs widely from the ideal 
they are able to consume with comparative impunity not only 
far more food than is required, but also all sorts of foods which 
in later years cannot be tolerated. We say with " comparative 
impunity," because chronic dietetic delinquencies, even in early 
life, cannot but be harmful in the long run, although an occa- 
sional lapse from a severely correct diet may, in the case of the 
habitually abstemious, be actually beneficial, and this even 
after middle life. 

Respecting the capacity of the organism to cope with different 
kinds of food, the influence of custom and of idiosyncrasy, as well 
as of age, has to be reckoned with. 

As to the first of these influences while one should be cautious 
in recommending to an aged person a diet very different from that 
to which he has for many years been accustomed, the experi- 
ence derived from prisons, workhouses, and similar institutions 
shows that the ability of the aged to adapt themselves to novel 
kinds of diet is by no means small. It is, indeed, astonishing 
what can be achieved in this direction if the necessary pressure 
can be brought to bear. Unfortunately in private practice this 
is not often possible, but if we can only secure his co-operation 
we may often succeed in getting an aged person to tolerate a 
dietary very different from that to which he has accustomed 
himself. 

The factor of idiosyncrasy is an important one. Individuals 
differ greatly, quite irrespective of age, in their digestive and 
metabolic capacities. We meet with children who are unable 
to tolerate foods which old people can digest quite easily, and, 
again, with others who are made ill by even a slight excess, while 
their grandparents can perhaps consume a large excess with 
comparative impunity. Some old people have, in fact, prodigious 
powers of digestion and metabolism, and we may look upon them 
as corresponding, in the physiological sphere, to the Shakespeares 



DIET IN OLD AGE 737 

and the Newtons in the realms of mind : they are physiological 
geniuses. Most of these remarkable old people would doubt- 
less enjoy better health, be more amiable and have greater con- 
sideration for others, on a more abstemious diet ; nevertheless, 
in regulating their food we must make due allowance for their 
prodigious powers. 

It may be observed in passing that the capacity to cope with 
an excess of food differs in different races. The Jews appear to 
be pre-eminent in this respect, possibly because for longer than 
any other people they have been able, by reason of their pros- 
perity, to obtain an habitual excess of food, and have in this way 
become racially adapted to it. 

Those who even in early life are feebly endowed in respect of 
digestion and metabolism, are, continuing our former comparison, 
physiological imbeciles. The wiser among them soon find this 
out for themselves ; others only learn the lesson late, and 
even if they learn it, may be deficient in prudence and un- 
willing to forego the immediate pleasure of indulging in 
what are for them at least indiscretions. This class of patient 
offers the physician fruitful scope in the matter of dietetic 
treatment. 

Making due allowance, however, for the personal element, our 
rule obtains, that while all should endeavour to conform as far 
as possible to the ideal dietary, allowing themselves no more than 
an occasional excess, it becomes with advancing years increasingly 
necessary for the majority of people to eat moderately of simple 
foods, and not to swallow starchy foods without having first 
insalivated them thoroughly. If we add to these rules the 
further ones that old people should take full advantage of 
dental surgery, that in the case of the toothless, certain of the 
tougher varieties of food should be broken up mechanically 
before being taken, and finally that due regard should be had to 
the influence of idiosyncrasy and habit, we have said all that 
is worth saying concerning the diet of the aged. 

Only in the case of the very feeble is it needful to predigest 
the food, though material help may often be got from the adminis- 
tration of amylolytic and peptic ferments. 

The dietetic indiscretions of the aged. Some people, unfor- 

47 



738 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tunately, and more especially men, tend as they get older to 
care more and more for the pleasures of the table. As the 
mental horizon narrows and other interests wane, the subject of 
the daily meals is apt to bulk larger and larger in their thoughts, 
until it may become the dominant interest in life, and the daily 
planning of the meals assume the importance of a great event. 
All are familiar with the rotund bald-headed old gentleman met 
with in a certain class of hotel, who appears to have some 
difficulty in killing time between meals, but rarely fails to turn 
up when they are due, and then consumes much more food than 
is good for him. 

Though some gourmands of this description manage to dispose 
of their excess fairly satisfactorily, most of them would enjoy much 
better health, and get far more pleasure out of life, if they ate 
and drank in accordance with their physiological requirements, 
for their excesses generally lead to a long train of disagree- 
able symptoms, such as irritability, depression, pains, and not 
infrequently to serious disease. 

By restricting the diet in cases of this kind to within reason- 
able limits, we can often effect a great improvement in health. 
In order to enlist the co-operation of our patients we should 
endeavour to bring home to them the gravity of their physiological 
delinquencies. If, for example, we find a man of 65 or 70 
consuming as much food as, or perhaps even more than, he did 
forty years previously, we should explain to him the folly of ex- 
pecting his senile tissues to cope with an excess of food as suc- 
cessfully as in the heyday of their youthful vigour. 

In no class of case can more good be got from dietetic restric- 
tion than in the bronchitis of the aged, and especially when this 
affection is complicated by obesity. A large number of these 
patients are allowed to die through non-enforcement of strict rules 
of diet. It is not merely that over-eating begets bronchitis : 
the bronchitis, and the emphysema which goes along with it, 
curtail the respiratory capacity, and so prevent the excess of food 
from being burnt off. In cases of this kind life can often be pro- 
longed for many years simply by restricting the total quantity of 
food taken. The only hope of saving the obese bronchitic patient 
is by systematic semi-starvation, while in cases of acute bron- 



DIET IN OLD AGE 739 

chitis, whether in the old or young (but especially the former), 
this plan should always be adopted. 

Another class of elderly or aged patient greatly benefited by 
the cutting down of the diet is that in which there is high arterial 
blood pressure, in conjunction with flushing, giddiness, and per- 
haps epitaxis. If a patient of this kind has been over-eating we 
can, unless advanced granular kidney be present, practically 
always greatly improve his condition by curtailing the diet. 

In contradistinction to the usual view, we hold that for 
elderly and aged gourmands it is generally even more necessary 
to cut down the allowance of starch and sugar than of animal 
food, though this should of course also be curtailed if excessive. 
It is especially in those cases in which the patient, besides 
partaking liberally of animal food, has been indulging freely in 
starch and sugar, that we can do most good. 

The dietetic instincts of the aged. Though doubtless the ap- 
petite for plain food tends to lose its keen edge with advancing 
years, and the dietetic instinct the liking for different kinds 
of food to alter somewhat, the changes in these respects are 
often less marked than might perhaps have been expected. 

The appetite for plain food may last to extreme old age. We 
have found from inquiry at several workhouses that the aged 
inmates have, for the most part, right good appetites for the 
simple fare provided, and that their dietetic instincts are much the 
same as those of their younger companions. 

At one of our large London workhouses the daily diet for men 
over 60 years of age is as follows : bread l 20 oz., margarine 1 oz., 
sugar 1 oz., meat 4 oz., potatoes 8 oz., greens 4 oz., pudding once 
weekly, stewed fruit once weekly. Tea 2 pints. Salt and pepper 
daily, mustard once a week. No alcohol. 

It must be admitted that this is an ample allowance, probably 
in excess of actual requirements. Nevertheless, most of the 
inmates, even the very old ones, consume the whole of their 
portion and appear to enjoy it thoroughly. The toothless among 
them seem to manage quite well ; the bread crusts they soak 

1 The bread is made from corn ground on the premises ; most of it 
is from " whole-meal," but a small portion consists of two parts of white 
flour and one of whole-meal. 



740 A SYSTEM OF DIETETICS AND DIET 

in their tea, and the meat is generally, though by no means in 
every case, minced for them. 

It is noteworthy that these old people complain very little 
of indigestion, and what is even more surprising suffer little 
from constipation. Thus in one large workhouse each inmate 
gets on an average no more than three doses of aperient in the 
year. Doubtless this comparative absence of indigestion and 
constipation is to be explained by the simplicity and good quality 
of the food provided, by the clock-like regularity of the daily 
routine, and by the high hygienic standard prevailing in the 
workhouse. 

Perhaps the most notable change which the dietetic instinct 
undergoes with advancing years is expressed by the gradual 
curtailment of starchy and sugary food during early and middle 
adult life. Most children are very fond of sugar and cakes, but 
this liking often suffers a marked diminution when adult life 
is reached. This is more noticeable in the man than in the 
woman, probably because alcohol and tobacco which are more 
liberally indulged in by the former tend to diminish the liking 
for sweet things. After middle life the saccharides are often still 
further cut down : the " sweet " becomes the least welcome 
part of the meal and is frequently passed by. This arises partly 
from disinclination, but largely because an abundance of sac. 
charide food is found to disagree, causing acidity, flatulence and 
other unpleasant phenomena, such as lumbago and arthritic 
pains. It must not, however, be assumed that saccharides are 
in themselves necessarily injurious. It will often be found 
that those with whom they disagree not only indulge liberally 
in animal food, but take very little exercise. By curtailing 
the one and increasing the other, their tolerance of saccharides 
may be considerably augmented. We have been assured 
that the aged inmates of workhouses are very fond of sweet 
things. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND 
CHILDREN IN HEALTH 



CHAPTER XXVI 

THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN IN 

HEALTH 

BY G. A. SUTHERLAND, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

THE great difficulty in connexion with the question of diet in 
adult life is that we have no authoritative standard which will 
command general acceptance. For infants, on the other hand, 
we have both a standard diet and a food supplied by nature 
in the shape of breast milk. Experience has shown that 
this natural food for infants is also the best food, and further 
that when artificial feeding is called for, the more closely 
the food approximates to breast milk, the better will be the 
result. Breast milk is becoming more and more of a luxury 
for infants, at least amongst certain sections of the popula- 
tion, and the unanimous voice of the medical profession 
on the importance of breast-feeding is but too little heeded. 
Nevertheless the young practitioner, however diffident he may 
be on other subjects, is fully justified in dogmatically asserting 
the immense importance and necessity of breast-feeding for the 
welfare of the infant. It is a matter on which the medical pro- 
fession has made up its mind once for all. Certain cases arise 
in which Abreast-feeding cannot be carried out and some artificial 
food must be used. Here again experience has shown that fresh 
cows' milk, suitably modified so as to resemble breast milk as 
closely as possible, is the best substitute at present known. Its 
use, however, is accompanied by many difficulties and dangers 
unknown in connexion with breast-feeding. In other cases, 
where the supply of breast milk is deficient, it is beneficial to 
supplement this source of supply with a certain number of meals 
composed of cows' milk. This is known as mixed feeding. These 
three methods, breast-feeding, mixed feeding, and feeding with 

713 



744 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

cows' milk are the ones in common use in this country and we 
shall now consider them more in detail. 



I. BREAST-FEEDING 

Breast milk. Milk when freshly drawn from the breast is 
a warm, sweet, sterile, alkaline fluid with a specific gravity 
of about 1030. The chief solid ingredients, 1 which amount 
to 13 per cent, are proteins (1-2 per cent), fat (3-4 per 
cent), sugar (5-7 per cent), and salts (about 0-2 per 
cent). While the fluid part (87 per cent), of milk is most 
essential to the infant, it may be disregarded at present as 
.not possessing any properties other than those of water. The 
solids on the other hand are the chief tissue builders, and the 
source of heat and energy. For the proper growth and develop- 
ment of the infant a certain proportion of each of these solid 
constituents must be present. For the growth and repair of 
tissues, proteins and mineral salts are essential ; for the pro- 
duction and storage of heat, fat is necessary ; and the source of 
energy lies in the sugar. The proteins are in the form of caseinogen 
and lactalbumin, the fat is represented by cream, and the carbo- 
hydrate present is milk sugar. Breast milk contains these sub- 
stances in the proportion which is best suited to an infant's 
digestive powers, which with the large demands of a growing child 
are to be kept fully employed but must not be overtaxed. The 
proteins are much more digestible than those of cows' milk which 
form dense hard curds, and consequently protein-indigestion is not 
a common trouble in breast-fed infants. The fat is in the form of 
a fine emulsion which as a rule is easily digested and absorbed. 
The sugar is very easily absorbed, and is seldom the cause of any 
gastric disturbance. There is considerable difference of opinion 
as to the exact chemical composition of milk, and both the nature 
of the proteins and the effect produced on them by the acids and 
ferments of the stomach are not yet thoroughly understood. 

The, quantity of milk secreted by the breast varies according 

1 The term " composition of milk " refers to the chemical composition 
as far as it can be ascertained. There are of course many other ingredients, 
organic compounds, etc., which have not been determined, but which play 
an important part in the human economy. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 745 

to the requirements of the infant. The secretion is not established 
usually until the third day after parturition. It differs for a few 
days from the normal standard and is called colostrum. The 
colostrum contains some special protein substances, and is also 
supposed to act as a laxative. The amount of milk is gradually 
increased to meet the requirements of the child. The following 
estimates by Pfeiffer as to the daily amount are quoted from Holt. 





Oz. 


Grma. 


At the end of 1st week .... 


10-16 


300- 500 


During the 2nd week .... 


13-18 


400- 550 


3rd .... 


14-24 


430- 720 


4th .... 


16-26 


500- 800 


From the 5th to the 13th week . 


20-34 


600-1,030 


,, 4th ,, 6th month . 


24-38 


720-1,150 


,, 6th ,, 9th ,, 


30-40 


900-1,220 









With this may be compared the amounts required as estimated 
by Feer (quoted by Hutchison). 

At the end of 1st week . . . .291 grms. 
During the 2nd week .... 549 
During the 3rd week .... 590 
During the 4th week .... 652 ,, 
From the 5th to the 13th week . . 687-828 grms. 
From the 4th to the 6th month . . 893-980 

The rapid increase in the amount secreted during the first 
few weeks of life is very striking, but corresponds with the rapid 
growth of the infant at that period. 

Variations in breast milk. The chemical composition of 
breast milk, after the first week, does not appear to vary 
much during the normal period of lactation. Although the 
composition of breast milk has been given above, it must not 
be considered that an absolute standard has been fixed. As a 
matter of fact breast milk is constantly varying from day to day in 
the same woman, and even from hour to hour, under the same 
conditions of life and diet. Nature has fixed her own limits and 
the lesson to be drawn is that any artificial food should be within 
those limits also, but need not be of an absolutely uniform chemical 
composition. Even at a single nursing the milk at the beginning 
is often different from that at the close, so that an infant at the 
breast obtains not only a food but a meal which may be regarded 



746 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

as a series of courses. In artificial feeding therefore the same 
principle may be acted on and we may vary the composition of 
the food at the different feeding times, as long as the limits 
established by nature are not departed from. Too frequent suck- 
ling increases the solids in the milk and is thus a frequent cause 
of indigestion. The indigestion induces pain and crying, and 
the breast is given still more frequently, with disastrous results. 
The habits of life of the mother as regards exercise, diet, and 
alcohol have an important influence on the quality of the milk. It 
is generally agreed that the fatty element in the milk is the one 
chiefly affected by diet. The amount of fat can be increased by a 
full protein diet, composed of beef and mutton, fish, eggs, etc., 
while it can be diminished by a carbo-hydrate diet composed of 
vegetables, fruits, and farinaceous puddings. If a woman under- 
goes a course of stuffing with food and at the same time takes no 
exercise, the protein element in the milk tends to increase. The 
quantity of the milk will vary with the amount of fluid drunk, 
and the proportion of solid contents may be regulated to a certain 
extent by the fluid intake. 

Hutchison quotes experiments of Baumm and Illner as to 
the effects of various diets on the milk of nursing mothers. They 
employed the following diets : (1) An abundant mixed diet, (2) 
a highly nitrogenous diet, (3) a diet rich in carbo-hydrates and fats, 
(4) a very fluid diet, (5) an ordinary diet with two to three pints 
of lager beer daily, and (6) a diet with much salt fish, pickles, and 
other salt foods. The result was that fat was the only ingredient 
of the milk on which the diet produced any appreciable effect. 
The amount of fat was sometimes increased 1 per cent on the first 
and second diets only. This may be regarded as the chemical side 
of the question, but one must also consider what may be called 
the biological aspect. Experience has shown that a healthy 
mother will probably rear an infant with much less trouble than 
one who is in a weak state of health. The diet and habits of the 
mother are therefore of the first importance in maintaining her 
health at the highest possible level, especially considering the 
extra strain which suckling imposes on her system. The mother's 
diet should be a mixed one, plain well cooked food being partaken 
of three times a day. It is not necessary to make any. great 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 747 

change in her usual dietary supposing that to have been of an 
ordinary character. Fresh cows' milk and oatmeal porridge or 
gruel are always to be recommended as part of a nursing woman's 
diet. All highly spiced or seasoned dishes which would tend to 
impair her appetite or digestion should be avoided, but within 
these limits she should be allowed freedom to consult her own 
tastes. Her appetite will usually be increased during the nursing 
period and is the best guide as to the quantity she should take. No 
stuffing with food, which will probably lead to digestive disturb- 
ances, should be practised. As regards increasing the amount of 
her milk, should this be advisable, the addition of one or two 
pints of fresh cows' milk to her dietary will be the simplest 
and most efficient method. 

It is popularly believed that the addition of alcohol to 
the diet, in the form of stout or beer or wine, is beneficial 
in improving the quality of the milk, as some say, and in 
strengthening the mother for her extra duties, as others think. 
This phase of the alcohol question is met by certain writers with 
the statement that as alcohol cannot be distilled from breast 
milk, even when considerable quantities of alcohol have been 
taken by the mother, the effect on the quality of the milk is nil. 
Holt as the result of some experiments found that the quality 
of the milk was altered and the quantity increased by giving 
nursing mothers an alcoholic extract of malt. The alteration 
in the milk consisted in an increase of the fat and to a less 
extent of the proteins. Probably exactly the same result 
would have followed the use of malt extract without the alcohol. 
Physicians generally have been led by experience to refrain 
from ordering alcohol during lactation either for the benefit of the 
mother or the improvement of her milk. If, however, the mother 
has been in the habit of taking alcohol in moderation, such as is 
represented by a glass of beer or stout or claret or port twice a 
day with meals, there seems no scientific justification for for- 
bidding it. The practice by those not accustomed to alcohol of 
taking it freely during lactation will probably prove deleterious 
to both mother and child, and should be strongly condemned. 

Variations in the quality of the milk during menstruation 
have not been determined chemically, and as a rule no bad effects 



748 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

can be traced clinically. In some cases it may be found that the 
infant suffers from convulsions or diarrhoea when the mother is 
menstruating, and only at those times. If any such disturbances 
occur one will naturally adopt some other method of feeding 
during menstruation. As a rule menstruation is not to be re- 
garded as an indication for stopping nursing. The occurrence of 
pregnancy during lactation does not necessarily change the 
character of the milk or injuriously affect the child. On the 
other hand it is very questionable whether a woman can success- 
fully perform the double function at the same time. In 
exceptional cases she may, but as a rule it is advisable to cease 
nursing if pregnancy occurs. 

Worry, anxiety, and mental distress of any kind may so alter 
the milk as to render it unsuitable for an infant, as shown by 
digestive disturbances. Acute bodily illness in the mother will 
often necessitate the cessation of suckling. If such illness be 
brief and without after effects it may be possible to carry the 
infant through this period by artificial feeding and resume the 
breast-feeding later. During the acute illness the milk should 
be drawn off regularly by a breast pump. In the presence of 
constitutional disease on the part of the mother, such as tuber- 
culosis or syphilis, it is not advisable to encourage breast-feeding. 
If on the other hand the infant is born with signs of active syphilis, 
there is no reason why the mother should not suckle it provided 
she is herself in a healthy state. 

Wet nursing is not a popular institution owing to the many 
drawbacks attending its use. At the same time when the breast 
milk of the mother fails, and the best possible food seems neces- 
sary, there is no substitute equal to the milk of another woman. 
Sometimes, also, after a trial of artificial feeding without 
success or for an infant debilitated by acute illness the best 
method of treatment is by wet nursing. A wet nurse should 
be a healthy young woman of between twenty and thirty years 
of age, with an infant of about the same age as the one she is to 
nurse. The milk ought to be analysed in order to see that it 
conforms to an average standard. Her own infant, if alive, must 
be healthy and present no evidence of constitutional disease. 
The wet nurse must also be protected from possible infection 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 749 

through the infant she is to nurse. If syphilis be suspected or 
be definitely present in this infant wet nursing is not justifiable. 



H. FEEDING WITH COWS' MILK 

Cows' Milk. In the absence of breast milk, the substitute 
which has gained universal acceptance and approval is pure, fresh, 
cows' milk. It is not however to be regarded as a perfect substi- 
tute, and while one may usually look forward to a placid career, 
free from digestive troubles, for a breast-fed infant, the child who 
is started early on cows' milk will probably encounter many 
troubles in connexion with the digestive organs. Cows' milk 
is meant primarily for the calf, and amongst other features its 
composition is such as to suit the rapid growth and activity of 
that animal. This explains the richness of cows' milk in proteins 
and mineral matters (Hutchison). A calf doubles its weight in 
the first forty-seven days of life while an infant takes four times 
as long. The following table shows the differences between 
average breast milk and average cows' milk. 



Woman's Milk (fresh). 



Cows' Milk (fresh). 



Reaction . 

Water . . 
Mineral matter 
Total solids . 
Fats . 



Milk sugar . 
Proteins . 

(1) Caseinogen 

(2) Whey-proteins 
Coagulation of 

proteins by 
acids and salts 

Coagulation of 
proteins by ren- 
net 

Action of gastric 
juice 



Amphoteric (more alka- 
line than acid). 

87 to 88 per cent. 

0'20 per cent. 

13 to 12 per cent. 

4 "00 per cent, (relatively 
poor in volatile glycer- 
ides). 

7 '00 per cent. 

1'50 per cent. 

J to ^ of total proteins. 

! to I 

With great difficulty. 
Curds small and floc- 
culent. 

Do not coagulate readily. 



Proteins precipitated but 
easily dissolved in ex- 
cess of the gastric juice. 



Amphoteric (more acid 

than alkaline). 
86 to 87 per cent. 
- 70 per cent. 
14 to 13 per cent. 
4'00 per cent (relatively 

rich in volatile glycer- 

ides). 

4 '75 per cent. 
3 - 50 per cent. 
2'66 per cent. 
0'84 per cent. 
With less difficulty. Curds 

large and tenacious. 

Coagulate readily. 



Proteins precipitated but 
dissolved less readily. 



From Rotch's Pediatrics. 



750 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The differences between the two milks call for careful examina- 
tion for certain modifications of cows' milk, based on these differ- 
ences, have to be employed. The great problems of infant feeding 
centre around the question as to how these modifications may be 
most satisfactorily carried out. We shall first consider the 
differences in the two milks, and then pass on to the modifications 
in common use. The specific gravity and the amount of water 
are practically the same in the two fluids. 

(1) The proteins. The proteins in breast milk amount to 
about 1*50 per cent, while those in cows' average 3-50 per cent. 
The excessive amount of protein in the latter is an important 
difference, and calls for reduction in artificial feeding. Both 
milks contain caseinogen and lactalbumin, but while in cows' 
milk the caseinogen markedly predominates, in breast milk the 
proportions of the two are nearly equal. As lactalbumin is a 
much more digestible protein than caseinogen the difference is 
an important one. Further the caseinogen of the two milks 
reacts differently to acids, the curd formed by breast milk being 
soft and flocculent, and soluble in excess of acid, while that of 
cows' milk consists of large masses which do not easily dissolve 
in excess of acid. 

(2) The fat. The chief difference between the two milks as 
regards the cream is that fat globules of breast milk are smaller 
and form a finer emulsion than those of cows' milk. Hutchison 
states that the fat in breast milk has a lower melting point 
and is therefore more easily digested. The amount of fat in 
average' breast milk is 4 per cent and in cows' milk 3-75 per cent. 

(3) The carbo-hydrates. In both milks sugar is the carbo- 
hydrate but there is from 2 to 3 per cent more in breast 
than in cows' milk. The amount of sugar in the latter must be 
increased to bring it up to nature's standard. In both cases 
lactose is the sugar present. 

(4) Breast milk is sterile, and as it passes direct to the 
infant there is no opportunity for contamination with micro- 
organisms. Cows' milk, on the other hand, as commonly employed 
is invariably infected with many organisms which develop in it 
with great rapidity. These organisms may be pathogenic or non- 
pathogenic, the latter however considerably altering the quality 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 751 

of the milk. The pathogenic organisms are the tubercle bacilli, 
derived from tuberculous cows or deposited in the milk during 
transit, and those of typhoid fever, scarlet fever or diphtheria, 
from infected water, utensils, or hands with which the milk 
has been brought in contact. These are accidental con- 
taminations and are by no means necessarily present in cows' 
milk. The observation of proper precautions as regards the 
health of the cows and of those dealing with the milk, and of 
cleanliness in the whole management of the milk supply, will 
serve to prevent such contamination. Unfortunately the neces- 
sary precautions and cleanliness are but seldom observed, and 
many modifications of milk have been adopted to meet this 
danger. The non-pathogenic bacteria are chiefly of the lactic 
acid forming group which cause the souring of milk by their 
action on the milk sugar. These and other organisms reach the 
milk during the time the milk is exposed to the air or from infected 
vessels in which it is placed, and increase with great rapidity. 
Under present conditions it seems impossible to exclude them 
altogether, and our efforts must be directed to keeping down 
their numbers as much as possible. Holt states that in one of 
the finest dairies in America, a Walker-Gordon farm, it was found 
possible to limit the number of bacteria present in the milk to an 
average of 5,000 per cubic centimetre at the end of sixteen hours. 
The bottled milk from high-class dairies was found to contain 
from 10,000 to 100,000, while from mixed dairies the milk in 
cans was found to contain from 100,000 to 400,000 bacteria per 
cubic centimetre, the latter estimate being often reached in very 
hot summer weather. It is plain that no modification will render 
such milk a proper food for infants. The question is rather one 
for the public health authorities, who should regulate the sale 
of milk in such a way that milk containing more than a 
certain number of bacteria would be declared unfit for human 
use. 

(5) A certain amount of coarse contamination is present in 
cows' milk which does not occur in breast milk. This takes the 
form of hairs and surface filth from the cows, of dirt from the hands 
of the dairy workers, and of dust which is deposited during the 
exposure of the milk. A certain amount of this can be and ought 



752 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

to be removed by filtering through fine cloth, as it is by no means 
a desirable addition to the milk. In the best dairies the amount 
of contamination is much reduced by the observation of strict 
cleanliness in the whole process of milking and the immediate 
storing of the milk in airtight vessels. 

(6) Human milk is alkaline, while the reaction of cows' milk 
is acid, and the acidity increases with the formation of lactic acid. 
It is probable that the slight degree of acidity present in cows' 
milk is not of great importance, as gastric digestion is carried on 
in an acid medium, and the sab" vary secretion is slight. If the 
milk is soured by the excessive development of lactic acid, it is 
not fit for use. The practice of adding an alkali simply to render 
cows' milk alkaline has rather fallen into disuse in the feeding 
of healthy infants. The addition of lime-water as a routine 
proceeding is not to be recommended as cows' milk contains 
normally a large amount of lime salts. 

(7) Mineral matter. There is from three to four times as 
much mineral matter in cows' as in breast milk. The chief salts 
are those of calcium and phosphorus. Hutchison states that in 
human milk nearly all the phosphorus is in organic combination, 
while in cows' milk less than half is. Calcium salts are much more 
abundant in cows' milk than in breast milk, and this difference 
has an important bearing on the question of protein digestion, as 
will be seen later. 

Modifications of cows' milk in infant feeding. It may be 

stated as a generally accepted axiom that the more closely the 
artificial diet of an infant approaches in composition that of breast 
milk, the more likely is it to be a successful substitute. Certain 
modifications are called for in connexion with cows' milk in order 
to secure this object. We shall now deal with these, taking first 
those which are simple and easily carried out at home, and 
next those which are more elaborate and require skilled super- 
vision. It will be necessary to consider the effect of these modi- 
fications, and whether the avoidance of certain dangers may 
not be accompanied by a tendency to others. For example, the 
sterilization of cows' milk in order to prevent the danger of tuber- 
culous infection may remove entirely from the milk the quality 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 753 

of freshness or vitality in which lies its antiscorbutic property. 
The questions raised are not purely chemical ones and cannot be 
determined by laboratory experiments ; they are also biological 
and can only be settled by testing them on many infants over 
prolonged periods. At present there is no consensus of opinion 
as to the best modification of cows' milk, and each writer on the 
subject must be guided to a large extent by his own experience. 
He should also pay due attention to the experiences of others with 
different methods, and should write without dogmatism. 

(1) The essential difficulty about cows' milk lies in the quantity 
and quality of its protein matter. Dilution with fluid is the 
simplest manner of reducing the quantity to the standard of 
breast milk, while as a matter of clinical experience the quality 
of the proteins is not found to require modification in the case of 
healthy children. It is different with delicate or ailing infants, 
who will be considered later. For the first fortnight of life the 
dilution may be of the strength of milk : diluent as 1:3, and 
then on to the age of three months 1 : 2. From the age of three 
to six months, equal parts may be given, and from six to nine 
months two parts of milk to one of diluent. The diluents in 
common use are plain water, barley-water, and lime-water. 

Plain water may be used, either boiled or unboiled, according 
to the purity of the water supply, but as a rule custom dictates 
some other diluent. Barley-water has come into very common 
use. It is supposed to diminish the density of the milk clot 
formed in the stomach and thereby to make digestion more easy. 
The nutritive value popularly attached to it by mothers is 
mythical, for if properly prepared, barley-water will contain 
less than 1 per cent of starch. It should be prepared as follows : 
A tablespoonful of pearl barley is washed and put in a saucepan 
with one pint of cold water. This is brought to the boil and then 
allowed to simmer beside the fire for half an hour. The water is 
then strained off and used as required. Barley-water should be 
prepared twice daily as it does not keep well. Strong decoctions 
of barley, or those made from ground barley, are not to be recom- 
mended for infants until after the age of nine months. Before 
that they are the cause of much intestinal disturbance as the 
digestive apparatus for starch is not sufficiently developed. The 

48 



754 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

chief benefits in using barley-water are that it is a bland fluid, 
less irritating to the stomach than tap water, and that as it has 
been boiled the fluid is sterile. Lime-water is also less irritating 
in the stomach than plain water. The lime has probably a slight 
effect in delaying the curdling by the acids in the stomach, but 
its antacid power is very feeble. It may be used quite safely as 
the regular diluent, but as a rule is better reserved for cases with 
gastric disturbance. 

(2) The dilution of the milk renders the addition of some 
fatty matter necessary, as the fat has been reduced to one-third 
the amount in breast milk by the addition of two parts water. 
It is often advisable, however, to begin bottle feeding in the 
first week without the addition of any cream, as the fatty material 
so often causes digestive disturbances. One can thus ascertain 
first of all whether the protein contents of the artificial food 
are going to be well tolerated by the infant, and can add the fatty 
material in gradually increasing amount as toleration is estab- 
lished. Digestive disturbances are but too often started by the 
tendency to feed up an infant from birth, which usually means 
overfeeding, and the tendency to give an excessive amount of 
fat at this age is specially marked. The extra fat is usually 
added in the form of cream, butter, or cod-liver oil. A pint of 
good cows' milk will yield from 1| to 2 oz. of gravity cream. 
Gravity cream contains from 15 to 20 per cent of fat and the 
same amount of proteins and sugar as the milk. If 7 oz. of 
milk diluted with twice that amount of water are used, 1 oz. 
of cream must be added to the mixture to bring the milk 
to the proper standard, i.e. 4 per cent of fat. The exact 
strength of the cream in fat is an important matter and Holt has 
found by careful experiments that he can get a standard 20 
per cent cream as follows. If cows' milk from a mixed herd is put 
into a pint vessel soon after it is drawn and rapidly cooled, it 
will be found that after four hours the upper 4 oz. will contain 
20 per cent of fat. Unless, however, one is dealing with a milk of 
known strength it is impossible to estimate the amount of fat in 
gravity cream with absolute accuracy. Still it serves well enough 
in ordinary circumstances and gravity cream has the advantages 
of being digestible and easily made at home in four hours from 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 755 

fresh milk. Separated cream can be made of any definite 
strength in fat, although as commonly sold the fatty contents 
may vary from 40 to 60 per cent. It has the disadvantages of 
being less easily procured in many places, of being often stale 
from keeping, and of being less digestible than gravity cream 
from a change in the fat globules through the action of the 
centrifuging machine. 

Cream is a very expensive luxury for the poor and cannot 
always be obtained of good quality even by the well-to-do. 
Butter or margarine may be used in place of it to supply the 
extra fat. Butter and margarine contain about 82 per cent of 
fat, i.e. twice as much as separated cream and four times as much 
as gravity cream. In infant feeding, if butter or margarine is 
used, one must add one quarter the amount as compared with 
gravity cream and one half the amount as compared with separ- 
ated cream. Both butter and margarine are easily digested and 
possess great nutritive value. If good butter is sometimes rather 
expensive, the price of margarine places it within the reach of 
all. Cod-liver oil is a cheap and efficient substitute for cream, 
and is easily digested by most infants. 

(3) The dilution of cows' milk reduces the amount of sugar 
from 4*50 per cent to 1*50 per cent when two parts of water are 
added. Some additional sugar must therefore be added to bring 
it up to the necessary standard. Sugar of milk is the best for 
this purpose in that it is the same as exists in breast milk, but for 
common use it is too expensive. Maltose in the form of extract 
of malt may be used as it has stood the test of experience well. 
Malt extract contains about 50 per cent of maltose, and in addition 
soluble starch (10 to 15 per cent), proteins (about 5 per cent), 
ash (1 to 2 per cent), and an important diastatic ferment. It has 
a marked sweetening power, much more so than sugar of milk, 
and is easily digested and absorbed by an infant. It not only 
renders the milk very palatable but will convert any starch 
present, as when barley-water is added, and is believed to render 
the curd in the stomach less dense and indigestible. Honey 
contains from 74 to 78 per cent of invert sugar, which is really 
a predigested form of sugar and ready for immediate assimilation 
(Hutchison). It is well suited for infants, who relish it also as 



756 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

a " sweetener." Fresh honey is to be preferred, and those who 
keep bees as well as babies should not fail to employ this source of 
nutriment. Regarding the honey which is bought in shops, one 
has to exercise some care in securing a pure article, as adul- 
teration is common. The price of honey, about Qd. a pound, 
compares favourably with that of malt extract, which is 3s. 
Cane sugar may also be employed with safety, and although 
not so digestible as the other forms of sugar, and more apt to 
produce fermentative disturbances, it usually acts well and has 
the advantage of being very cheap. The amount of sweetening 
matter to be added will vary with the age of the infant, but 
for the first month the addition of \ oz. of sugar of milk or malt 
extract or honey, or of 3 drms. of cane sugar, to each 15 oz. 
of milk as prepared for use will be found sufficient. 

(4) The risks of bacterial contamination in connexion with 
cows' milk have led to certain precautions which are not called for 
in the case of breast-feeding. Those who keep their own cows 
or who can obtain the milk direct from the cows do not require 
to take any special measures. Some dairies also very few in this 
country unfortunately will deliver the milk under such con- 
ditions of purity and kept at such a low temperature, that the 
milk may be safely given to an infant without any treatment 
for the destruction of micro-organisms. Here it may be stated 
that in all probability fresh pure cows' milk, untouched by heat- 
ing or preservatives, is the best artificial food for infants. Under 
the conditions of town life such milk is rarely to be obtained, 
and we have to consider what means may be safely taken to pre- 
vent the development of pathogenic and non-pathogenic organisms 
in milk. The use of preservatives such as salicylic acid, boric 
acid, formalin, etc., may be mentioned but only to be condemned. 
The ingestion of such chemicals, even in small quantities, over a 
prolonged period may affect the growing infant most injuriously 
and is certainly not indicated by nature's teaching. Further, the 
purpose of this method of preservation which is carried out by 
the milk dealer is not to maintain the purity and freshness of the 
milk but to prevent it from becoming noticeably bad. As to 
any weakening of its nutritive power he is entirely careless and is 
concerned only that the milk should be kept in a saleable condition 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 757 

by this means. The method then has many dangers and no 
advantages. What is preferable is that the milk should be 
delivered as fresh as possible and that the necessary treatment 
should be carried out at home. In this country the treatment 
takes the form of raising the temperature of the milk sufficiently 
high to destroy the micro-organisms present. 

The heating must be carried out in such a way as to interfere 
as little as possible with the chemical composition and nutritive 
value of the milk. This is best secured by boiling the milk. The 
usual plan is to put the milk in a clean pan and boil it for one or 
two minutes. The drawback to this method is that it so alters the 
taste of the milk as to render it unpalatable for some infants. A 
better plan is to put the milk-containing pan into another contain- 
ing water and to bring the water to the boil. The boiling should 
be continued for five minutes, at the end of which the milk will 
have been raised to the same temperature and should be removed 
and cooled rapidly. The milk itself has not been boiled because 
the boiling point of milk is higher than that of water, and thus 
the change in the taste is not induced. The milk should then be 
transferred to a clean glass vessel, fitted with a lid, or covered 
with fine muslin, or plugged with cotton wool, and placed in a cool 
place, for instance the outside ledge of a window. In hot weather 
the milk should always be kept on ice. 

By this method of heating the pathogenic as well as the non- 
pathogenic organisms will be destroyed, although some spores 
may still remain untouched. Possibly some ferments in the 
milk have also been destroyed. Milk thus treated will un- 
doubtedly " keep " better than unboiled milk, but should not on 
that account be kept for more than twelve hours, or else the 
quality of freshness will be lost. It must also be remembered 
that although boiled milk is sterile, it remains a suitable culture 
ground for bacteria if exposed to fresh contamination. 

A considerable amount of controversy has taken place over the 
question of the relative digestibility of boiled and unboiled milk. 
Clinical experience seems to show that there is very little difference. 
Boiled milk is said to be more constipating than unboiled but 
this effect is by no means constant. On the whole it may be 
said that the boiling of milk, especially in hot weather, is a 



758 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

great safeguard and does not injuriously affect the nutritive 
properties of the food. 



REGULATIONS AS TO FEEDING 

The number of meals. The number of feeds in the twenty-four 
hours must be arranged according to the age of the infant, and the 
times fixed must be closely adhered to. It is very rarely that one 
meets with an infant who is not being fed often enough, while one 
is constantly coming across infants who are being fed much too 
frequently. The interval between meals should be long enough 
to allow of complete digestion, and of emptying of the stomach, 
and of a period of rest for the stomach. As a rule during the first 
month of life these requirements will be met by feeding every 
two hours during a day of sixteen hours, i.e. from 7 a.m. to 
11 p.m. It is beneficial for the child that during the night of 
eight hours only one feed should be given, at 3 a.m., thus giving 
two intervals of four hours for a little extra rest to the stomach. 
While a minimum of two hours' interval should be insisted on, 
in the case of healthy children the maximum may often be ex- 
tended to two and a half or three hours during the day, even in the 
early weeks of life. If it is found that a child will sleep for this 
longer period and will then take a feed, without any sign of over- 
loading of the stomach, the individual tendency should be con- 
sidered rather than any hard and fast rule. It is of extreme im- 
portance that the times of feeding, after having been fixed, should 
be rigidly adhered to. Habit is easily established, in the breast 
as regards the secretion of milk, and in the infant as regards the 
desire for food, and much trouble will be spared to mother and 
child by forming regular habits early. If the infant be asleep 
when the feeding time comes he should be wakened and fed. 
If he cries before feeding time he is not to be fed, but an examina- 
tion should be made as to other causes of discomfort, local or 
general. A nurse should be able to distinguish between the 
peevish or irritable cry of discomfort or pain, and the healthy 
piping with which an infant demands more food. In hot weather 
more especially a common cause of crying is thirst and not hunger, 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 759 



and to relieve this plain water or barley-water may be given 
between meals. As the infant grows the intervals between 
meals should be lengthened and the number of meals diminished. 
The following table shows approximately the indications as to 
feeding times in a healthy infant. 

NUMBER OF MEALS AND HOURS OF FEEDING FOR BREAST- OR 
BOTTLE-FED BABIES. 





By Day. 


By Night Number of 




(16 hours). 


(8 hours). Meals in 24 






Interval. 


Interval. Hours. 


Up to 3 


months .... 


2 -2 hours 


4 hours 


10-8 


Between 


3 and 6 months 


2J-3 


4 


8-7 


> 


6 9 


3 


8 


6 


M 


9 12 


3J-4 


9 


5 



The Quantity of food. A newly born infant should be put to 
the breast within a few hours, and afterwards at regular intervals. 
The quantity of nourishment at first may be small but it is suf- 
ficient for the purpose until nature increases the supply. The 
average amounts of breast milk at different periods of lactation 
have already been given. In any individual case one must 
judge by the size of the breasts, the ease with which milk is 
expressed, and more especially by the satisfaction or otherwise 
of the infant after a feed as to whether a sufficient amount of 
milk is present. If the infant fails to gain in weight, and is rest- 
less and dissatisfied after a meal, without showing definite signs 
of indigestion, one will naturally feel doubtful as to whether a 
sufficient amount of milk is present. The exact amount taken 
may be ascertained by weighing the infant before and after a 
feed. The best test as to the quantity at a meal is the infant's 
appetite, for under regular hours of feeding he will usually take 
as much as is good for him and no more. If he falls asleep while 
taking the breast he has had enough, and should not be roused to 
take more. If vomiting occurs soon after a meal he has probably 
taken too much. Some infants tend to drink the milk very 
quickly, a habit that must be checked by limiting the rate of 
outflow through the nipple. If an infant has been from ten to 
fifteen minutes at the breast, he should usually have obtained a 



760 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

sufficient quantity. The contents of one breast are usually 
sufficient for a meal, and the breasts should be used alternately. 
In the case of bottle-fed babies the amount at a feed must be 
fixed. Here what we have to fix is the maximum and not the 
minimum. The minimum amount to be taken is to be decided by 
the infant's appetite at each meal, which will prove the best guide. 
When a child has had enough it will usually stop and no coaxing 
should be employed to make it take more. The painful scenes 
in which an infant is worried to drink more, has the teat pushed 
repeatedly into its mouth, and finally in despair of securing rest in 
any other way, sucks down the surplus milk, should not be 
enacted in a well regulated nursery. It is especially in the case 
of sterilized or pasteurized milk, when the amount for each meal 
is supplied in separate bottles, that this evil prevails. Mothers 
get the idea that a fixed amount must go down at each meal, 
irrespective of age, size, strength, illness, hunger or thirst. We 
hold that there is more scientific accuracy in determining the 
minimum amount a baby should take in that baby's appetite 
than in any system of feeding which can be devised. Automatically 
the various influences referred to above, age, size, strength, and 
special requirements are brought into play in adjusting the 
appetite so as to meet the demands of the infant. The maximum 
amount at a feed must be fixed, not according to any general 
standard but according to the needs of the infant. The amount 
which different infants of the same age will take varies greatly. 
We begin with small amounts at first and gradually increase 
them as toleration is established. When a proper amount 
has been reached, which will be determined by having regard to 
the size of an infant's stomach, its age and weight, and when 
the infant is growing satisfactorily on this amount and is com- 
fortable after a feed, it is advisable to regard this as a maximum. 
There is no doubt that many infants, under slight encouragement, 
will swallow down more food than the capacity of the stomach 
and the powers of the digestive organs will justify. In practice 
one will often find that this encouragement is but too readily 
given by the mother who believes in the feeding up process, and 
is ignorant of the bad results. It is better to be beforehand in 
preventing these results by fixing the maximum amount at a 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 761 

meal than to have to adopt a long course of curative treatment 
later. In the present day many babies find themselves classed 
among those who " cannot take cows' milk." This class is largely 
composed of those who have been overfed and have broken down 
under the process. 

One must be able to state the approximate amount of food 
suitable for infants of different ages. In the following table are 
given the amount of food at a meal, and the proportion of milk and 
water in the mixture, the estimates being of an average character. 





Amount at each 
Meal. 


Proportion of Millt 
and Water. 


During 1st month 


1-1 i OZ. 


1-3 


2nd 


2-3 


1-2 




3-4 


1-2 


4th 


4-5 


1-1 




4-5 


2-1 


6th , 


5-6 


2-1 


From 7th to 9th month 
9th to 12th ... 


6-7 
8-9 


3-1 

All milk. 



In the next table are given the total quantities of food material 
in twenty -four hours, with the proportion of each ingredient. 

QUANTITIES OF FOOD MATERIAL IN TWENTY-FOUR HOURS. 







Plain or 


Gravity 


Sugar or 


Milk. 


Barley- 


Cream. 


Malt Extract. 




water. 










Oz. 


Oz. 


Oz. 


Oz. 


During 


1st month . . 3-6 


10-15 


i-2 


H 





2nd . . 6-8 


12-16 2-2J 


i-U 


M 


3rd . . 8-10 


16-20 


2-3 


i-U 


> 


4th . . 10-15 


10-15 


2-3 


1-41 


> 


5th . . 


15-20 


7-10 


2-3 


i 


,, 


6th . . 


20-25 


10-12 


1-2 


l 


7th to 


9th . . 


25-30 


8-10 


1-2 


i 


9th to 


12th 


30-40 





.-2 


~ 



Necessarily these are but approximate estimates, but enough 
has been said above to show that other factors than age must be 
taken into account. A premature infant will require smaller and 
more dilute feeds than a full term child. Another point to be 



762 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

considered is the variation in the amount and quality of the food 
at different seasons. Less food is required during the hot months 
than in cold weather, as will be indicated also by the infant's 
appetite. Without reducing the amount of diluent, it will be 
found advisable in hot weather to reduce the amount of milk 
and cream, as given above. 

It may be said that the amount of proteins in the milk 
feeds is steadily increased up to the ninth month by a diminu- 
tion of the amount of diluent, and that in this respect nature's 
method is not followed. Chemical analysis shows that the 
proteins of breast milk do not increase in amount as the infant 
grows ; it is only the amount of rm'lk which becomes greater. 
This criticism may be admitted as correct. If from any reason 
breast-feeding were suddenly stopped at eight months, one would 
not put the infant at once on to milk diluted with one-third water. 
The food would probably be too strong, and a weaker dilution 
would be ordered. On the other hand when the infant has been 
fed from the early months with cows' milk of gradually increasing 
strength, the stomach becomes accustomed to it and digests the 
food. The difficulty is met by increased digestive action on the 
part of the stomach which can be carried out, as a rule, without 
any sign of distress. If the dilution of the early months were 
kept up, the total amount of fluid required would be in excess of 
an infant's requirements and would produce dilatation of the 
stomach. 

Bottles and bottle-feeding. The dangers of the milk are 
frequently added to by those of the bottle. The old-fashioned 
flat bottle with long india-rubber tubing attached has now been 
reformed out of existence. It has been replaced by one of oval 
shape, with at least two openings, and with a rubber nipple 
attached at the end. While the cleaning is thus rendered easier 
it still requires a good deal of skilled attention. The question 
as to whether all feeding bottles may not be reformed out of 
existence can be answered in the affirmative. At Paddington 
Green Children's Hospital, and probably in other hospitals, 
no bottles are used but the infants are fed out of ordinary feeding 
cups with rubber teats attached to the end of the spout. The 
advantages of these over any form of bottle are very great. They 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 763 

can be cleaned with the greatest ease simply by running boiling 
water through them in a shorter time and with more thoroughness 
than any form of bottle. In order to allow of cleaning, there 
should not be a strainer in the neck of the cup. These feeders 
require, as is right, that the nurse should hold the cup and attend 
to the feeding throughout the meal. The nipples are of a larger 
size than were formerly used for feeding bottles. At first sight it 
might appear likely that some deformity of the mouth might 
follow from the use of these larger teats, but they really seem 
to reproduce more exactly nature's method, in which an infant's 
mouth is filled with the nipple and part of the breast. The 
rubber teat is removed after feeding, turned inside out, and 
cleaned in hot water ; it is then kept in cold water until required 
again. The teats must not be kept too long in use as they soon 
begin to show small cracks. The feeding cups should be made 
of china, and not of any porcelain-lined metal, as the lining of the 
latter tends to chip off and leave an uneven surface which renders 
thorough cleaning impossible. By these means the risk of the 
milk becoming contaminated with organisms in the feeding 
apparatus is reduced to a minimum. 

The palatability of the milk mixture. One desires to make 
the food palatable to an infant and as varied as possible. The 
addition of milk sugar or malt extract or cane sugar will usually 
give the sweet taste which is most appreciated. Some infants 
will take one of these flavouring agents more readily than either 
of the others, and this can be found out by actual trial. An 
infant will have a distinct preference for one flavouring, to which 
it has been accustomed, and show clearly if that flavouring is not 
present. It is not advisable to over-sweeten the milk at times 
or the less sweetened milk may be refused. Although custom 
has prescribed the use of warm milk for infants, there is no harm, 
especially in hot weather, in trying a feed of cold milk, and if the 
child prefers it in continuing the same. Naturally one will not 
try iced milk or milk just off the ice. Even with the sweetening 
added there must be a monotonous sameness about an infant's 
diet, and if any such flavouring as cinnamon water or dill uater 
is liked, there is no harm in mixing a little of one or other of these 
with the milk. Barley-water as a drink will often be taken better 



764 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

if one of these flavouring waters is added. A slight variety in 
the diet may be secured by giving one or two cream feeds in the 
day in place of the ordinary milk mixture, as follows : Gravity 
cream, oz. ; malt extract, 1 drm. ; barley-water, 2 oz. This 
also varies the work to be done by the stomach inasmuch as the 
fat digestion is here tested in place of the casein digestion of the 
ordinary mixture. 



III. MIXED FEEDING 

In many cases a mother with the best intentions finds herself 
unable to supply a sufficient amount of breast nutriment for the 
infant. The defect may be either in the quantity or the quality 
of the milk. If the infant is always dissatisfied after a meal, 
always ravenous, and is not gaining weight, an examination of 
the breast milk is called for. If the quality is up to the average 
standard, then probably the quantity is at fault. The quantity 
may be increased by more suitable diet, or if necessary the num- 
ber of breast feeds may be reduced. If the mother is healthy, 
the quality can usually be improved by attention to her diet and 
habits. Other causes may be present which demand some extra 
supply of food, such as the mother's absence at work, or the state 
of her health. 

In such cases mixed feeding, i.e. partly breast milk and partly 
cows' milk, is to be encouraged. As a rule mothers are quite 
willing, nay anxious to adopt this method, especially amongst 
the lower classes. Possibly the present writer may have been 
unfortunate in his experience, but he has been much impressed 
by the frequency with which breast-feeding is stopped by medical 
advice. If there has been the slightest trouble with the infant's 
digestion, or if it is not thriving well, the first remedy suggested 
seems to have been to stop breast-feeding. Now, although healthy 
children can be reared on cows' milk, the infant who has to depend 
entirely on artificial feeding is heavily handicapped in the struggle 
for existence. The mortality statistics of breast-fed and bottle- 
fed infants show this clearly. Consequently it is of the greatest 
importance to encourage breast-feeding whenever possible and 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 765 

to search for and correct every other possible cause of failure 
before falling back on the breast milk as at fault and stopping 
the nursing. A popular prejudice against mixed feeding exists 
in some quarters, but experience has shown that it can be carried 
out with perfect safety and success. When mixed feeding is 
necessary the nature of the artificial substitute must be carefully 
thought out. In the case of infants under a month one will give 
a preference to peptonized milk or whey. The disadvantages 
of these as a whole diet do not apply when breast milk is also 
being used, and they supply a food very similar as regards digesti- 
bility to human milk. Less care in the preparation is required 
for condensed milk or dried milk, which will usually be well tolerated 
if given well diluted. After the age of one month cows' milk, 
modified as previously described, will be found perfectly efficient 
in most cases. Where special difficulties are met with in con- 
nexion with the digestion, the cows' milk must be given in greater 
dilution or citrate of soda may be added to the milk. 



SIGNS OF SUCCESSFUL FEEDING 

By many the only test employed as to the success of the diet 
is the gain in weight. This is too limited a view. An infant 
may be gaining in weight but may not be thriving. Fat in in- 
fancy is easily produced by an excessive amount of carbo-hydrate 
in the diet, but the nutrition usually suffers. To estimate cor- 
rectly the progress of a child under a given diet several things 
have to be noted. The signs of success are : 

(1) A steady increase in weight, combined with firmness of 
the muscles and active movements of the limbs. 

(2) A regular and good appetite, and satisfaction after a 
meal. 

(3) An absence of vomiting, and flatulence, and anaemia. 

(4) Regular actions of the bowels, with healthy stools. 

(5) A condition of comfort and happiness in the infant when 
awake, and regular periods of unbroken sleep. 

If these conditions exist and persist one may usually conclude 
that the diet is satisfactory, and that illness, near or remote, is 



766 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

not to be feared as a consequence of the food employed. The 
weighing machine is a curse in many nurseries. The anxious 
parents hang around to hear the weekly report, and if it is an 
ounce short of what was expected gloom settles over the house- 
hold. Probably the nurse has made a mistake in the weighing. 
The infant's digestive powers may next be overtaxed in the effort 
to make up lost ground. As a rule, therefore, it is better to avoid 
weighing machines in private work, and to judge by the appear- 
ance of the infant, which will be a sufficient guide to any one with 
a little experience. The steady gain which is desirable amounts 
on an average to about 4 oz. per week during the first six months 
of life. 



A CHANGE OF DIET 

Before jumping to the conclusion that some other food must 
be tried for an infant it is extremely important to make sure that 
the food employed is the element at fault. In the vast majority 
of cases it will be found that pure milk simply modified will suit 
the infant perfectly well. A change of diet should not be adopted 
until the following points have been thoroughly inquired into 
and corrections made if necessary. 

(1) The purity and freshness of the milk at each feeding. 
If the milk is swarming with organisms, or sour, one cannot expect 
satisfactory results. 

(2) The strength of the milk as regards solid elements. The 
tendency is to give as rich a milk as possible, to add cream, 
or some starchy food, in accordance with the popular belief 
that the stronger the food the stronger the infant. This usually 
leads to disastrous results as regards digestion and nutrition. 
The opposite mistake, namely the giving too weak a food, is but 
rarely met with, but may be the explanation in certain cases 
where the weight is not being maintained. 

(3) The quantity at each meal. Both the feeding up tendency 
of the mother and the appetite of the infant may require regulat- 
ing. Overfeeding causes more digestive troubles in early life 
than all the other causes together. Every cry of an infant is 
interpreted as being due to hunger, and food is poured in. If 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 767 

the bottle is not finished readily, much time is devoted to coaxing 
the infant to swallow more. If vomiting occurs, the next meal 
is hurried on to make up for the previous fluid and curd lost. 
Then the physician is solemnly assured that the infant cannot 
digest cows' milk ! 

(4) The regularity of the meals. It is essential even in the 
earliest months of life that a proper interval for digesting a meal 
should be allowed. The minimum length in health should be 
two hours. Water can be given between meals to allay thirst. 

(5) The presence of local or constitutional disease in the 
infant. In the case of congenital pyloric stenosis one usually 
finds that a great variety of foods have been tried but that the 
disease has not been recognized. In the case of congenital 
syphilis wasting may have led to a trial of various foods in the 
belief that the suitable food had not been hit upon. If is of the 
first importance to make a careful physical examination in every 
case of supposed food disorder so as to determine the presence 
or absence of any disease in the infant which may have an influence 
on the disturbances present. 

Were these questions always carefully considered it is our 
belief that the number of children who are supposed to require 
specially modified milk would be greatly reduced, and that the 
infantile stomach would be found to be an organ capable of accom- 
modating itself to the digestion of cows' milk. 



OTHER MODIFICATIONS OF COWS' MILK AND SPECIAL 

FOODS 

The more elaborate methods of modifying milk require careful 
consideration because they represent attempts to overcome 
difficulties in connexion with this food material. Some of them 
are of a scientific nature and are based on chemical and bacteriolo- 
gical investigations. Others are of a commercial nature with a 
pseudo-scientific claim attached to them by the manufacturers. 
There are two standards by which these preparations must be 
judged, first as to how closely they approximate in composition 



768 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

to breast milk, and secondly as to their effects, immediate and 
remote, on the growth and nutrition of the infant. It will be 
found that in correcting one fault or defect in cows' milk, the 
result too often is that others are produced. In other words, 
clinical experience has shown that scientific modifications of 
milk are not to be relied on as the sole guides in infant feeding. 
Test tube experiments in the laboratory are not the same as 
digestive experiments in the human stomach. Chemistry and 
bacteriology are not enough without considering the biological 
needs of an infant, and these can only be determined by prolonged 
observations on a living child. 

We have already considered certain modifications of milk 
which are simple and can be carried out in any household. They 
have stood the test of experience and may be regarded as leading 
to the production of a diet which will carry the infant safely 
through the first nine months of life, and will not tend to ill-health 
or disease afterwards. There are certain other modifications, 
more elaborate as a rule, which have been evolved with the 
object of meeting certain difficulties in connexion with feeding 
with cows' milk. These will now be considered in detail, atten- 
tion being directed to the method of preparation, the advantages 
which are claimed, and the disadvantages which may accom- 
pany the use of milk thus modified. We shall deal here only with 
the use of these modifications of milk in the feeding of healthy 
children, and shall defer the question of their application to the 
treatment of diseased conditions to a later section. 

1. Sterilized Milk. There are various methods of sterilizing 
milk. We have already referred to the sterilizing action of 
boiling the milk, but by the term " sterilization " is meant the 
exposure of milk to a temperature of 212 F. or higher for a 
period varying from half an hour to an hour and a half. By 
some it is boiled and by others it is treated by steam. It may be 
carried out at home when a special sterilizer is used, such as 
Soxhlet's, Arnold's, Cathcart's, etc. The milk may be sterilized 
in bulk on delivery and afterwards modified by the addition of 
cream, sugar, etc., or, the necessary dilution and additions 
having been made, the prepared milk for twenty-four hours is 
put into bottles, each containing enough for one meal, and all 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 769 

the bottles are put in the sterilizer and heated ; the bottles are 
then put aside on ice and are opened as required. They are 
usually made so that a rubber teat can be fixed around the 
opening, and the child fed direct from the bottle. 

The advantage claimed is that all organisms, pathogenic as 
well as non-pathogenic, are destroyed in a much more thorough 
manner than by boning the milk for one or two minutes. The 
object aimed at is to prevent the occurrence of disease by specific 
contagion in the milk or by fermentative changes in the milk. 
By some it is claimed that the milk is rendered more digestible, 
by others this is denied. Hutchison states that sterilization 
alters the taste of the milk, destroys the fine emulsion of the fat, 
coagulates the lactalbumin, and renders the casein less easy of 
digestion. In all probability the digestibility of the milk is not 
altered to any marked extent. Holt states that the constipating 
effects of sterilized milk are soon noticed. 

The advantage of destroying the organisms in cows' milk 
has already been emphasized, and sterilizing will effect this object 
more fully than simple boiling, although certain spores may still 
resist the effects of the high temperature. Milk which has been 
sterilized will also keep from souring longer than milk not so 
treated, but it will none the less become stale. Milk which has 
been swarming with organisms will not be rendered pure by 
sterilizing, and the various toxins produced in milk which has 
already been kept too long will not be destroyed by prolonged 
heating. There is also a biological aspect to the question. Ex- 
perience has shown that sterilized milk is apt to lead to anaemia, 
rickets, and more especially scurvy. Out of 379 cases of infantile 
scurvy collected in America, the previous diet in 107 cases was 
sterilized milk. This means that some vital property in fresh 
milk has been destroyed. Milk which has been sterilized has 
not only been boiled, it has been boiled to death. So generally 
has this been recognized that the process is now considerably 
shortened, and many consider that from ten to twenty minutes 
is a sufficient length of time. As a complete diet for infants 
sterilized milk is not to be recommended, and its use might with 
advantage be reserved for special conditions of ill-health which 
only the physician can determine. It will be found useful as a 

49 



770 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

temporary resort when milk has to be transported a long distance, 
or when the suspicion of infection in the milk (typhoid, tubercu- 
losis) renders special precautions advisable. It has no advan- 
tage over boiled milk in the prevention or cure of infantile 
diarrhoea. 

Sterilized milk is also supplied by the dairy companies. The 
same objections which have been urged above apply here, and 
there are others. The process of sterilization requires skilled 
supervision, and one can never depend on dairy milk having been 
prepared according to exact scientific methods. There are but 
too many opportunities of scamping the work. Again, while 
one can usually tell as to the freshness of untouched milk, it is 
impossible to form an estimate as to how many days sterilized milk 
has been kept and how many times it has been re-sterilized. 
Sterilization forms an excellent method of preserving for future 
sale the surplus supply of fresh milk at the end of the day. For 
these reasons if sterilization is employed it is very much better to 
carry out the process at home. 

2. Pasteurized milk. In the process of pasteurization the milk 
is subjected to a temperature of from 158 F. to 170F. for half 
an hour or longer. It may be carried out at home in an apparatus 
specially constructed for the purpose. Milk thus treated will 
keep sweet for two or three days if stored on ice, the heat employed 
being considered sufficient to destroy pathogenic organisms 
although not their spores, and to prevent fermentative changes. 
Some deny that all organisms are destroyed, and regard the 
process as incomplete sterilization. If it is desired to secure 
tubercle-free milk it will be safer to sterilize or boil the milk than 
to trust to pasteurization. The changes in the taste and in the 
solids of the milk after sterilization are avoided by the use of the 
lower temperature employed in pasteurizing. 

The objects aimed at in pasteurization are to destroy the 
organisms in milk, and by means of the lower temperature used 
to overcome the disadvantages which were found to follow the 
prolonged use of sterilized milk. The risks of anaemia, scurvy, 
etc., are said to be avoided. 'It seems probable that pasteurized 
milk, which has been properly prepared, is a perfectly safe diet 
for infants. The temperature should not be higher than 158 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 771 

F. and the time not longer than twenty minutes, if the nutritive 
value of the milk is to be preserved intact. After pasteurization 
the milk is quite as liable to contamination and fermentative 
changes as fresh milk, and the same precautions must be taken 
to prevent fresh infection, e.g. enclosure in air-tight vessels, stor- 
age on ice, etc. The exact carrying out of the process will usually 
require more skill and time than are available in an ordinary 
household. Cases of scurvy have been reported after the pro- 
longed use of pasteurized milk, but probably the heating had not 
been properly carried out. It is questionable whether anything 
is really gained by this process which cannot be more simply 
secured by boiling the milk. 

By many dairy companies milk is now pasteurized in bulk 
and supplied to customers. So far as my own knowledge of 
this system goes, it has not been adopted with the view of preserv- 
ing the customers' health but for the protection of the dairy 
company against legal liabilities from the sale of infected milk. 
Stale milk which has been pasteurized may contain many active 
poisons although few living organisms. Again, as Crozier Griffith 
has pointed out, while pasteurization destroys the bacteria, the 
spores of the subtilis group are unaffected. Unless the milk is 
carefully preserved on ice these spores, unchecked by the presence 
of living lactic acid germs, will multiply even faster than in raw 
milk, and may cause severe diarrhoea. In many cases the pur- 
chaser is unaware that the milk has been pasteurized and at 
once boils the milk on delivery. This double treatment of the 
milk will tend to the production of the drawbacks mentioned in 
connexion with sterilized milk. In the feeding of infants it is 
extremely important that the whole treatment which, the milk 
has undergone before delivery should be knoivn. The dairy 
pasteurization of milk may or may not be properly carried out, the 
milk supplied may or may not be fresh, and the result as 
regards the infant may or may not be successful. For these 
reasons the home modification of milk is to be preferred, and a 
guarantee should be obtained from the dairy as to the state of 
the milk provided. 

3. Laboratory milk. The most scientific modification of milk 
which has ever been attempted is that known as the " American 



772 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

or percentage " method. It has been evolved by the genius and 
enthusiasm of Dr. T. M. Rotch of Harvard. Every precaution 
is taken which human ingenuity could suggest to render the source 
of the milk supply as good as possible, and to preserve the milk 
from contamination during the period between leaving the cow 
and reaching the infant. As a result of the special method of 
feeding the cows, the milk has an almost uniform percentage of 
the solid contents all the year. The process through which the 
milk passes is a somewhat prolonged one, consisting of separation, 
recombination according to the physician's prescription, bottling 
and sterilizing. The modifying materials are kept for use in glass 
vessels at a temperature of 40 F. to prevent the growth of bacteria. 
The milk is delivered at the laboratory within a few hours of 
milking, being conveyed in ice-chests in which the temperature 
does not rise above 45 F. On arriving at the laboratory the 
milk is divided by the separator into cream, separated milk, and 
any dirt or foreign matter which may have found entrance. The 
cream has a fixed percentage of fat, namely 16 per cent. In mak- 
ing up the milk for an infant in accordance with the physician's 
prescription, the clerks have the following materials ready in 
glass vessels ; (i) The 16 per cent cream obtained from the 
separator, (2) the separated milk to be used for securing the 
proper percentage of proteins, (3) a 20 per cent solution of 
milk-sugar in distilled water, and (4) lime-water. With these 
materials the modifying clerk combines each infant's food accord- 
ing to the prescription before him, and then pours it into the glass 
tubes from which the infant is to be fed. These tubes, each of 
which contains the milk for one meal, are closed with a plug of 
non-absorbent wool, and placed in baskets with compartments 
equal in number to the meals which the infant is to receive daily. 
The baskets and their contents are placed in the sterilizer, and 
after having been subjected to the required temperature, are 
taken to the cooling tank where the temperature of the food is 
reduced to 28 F. They are then ready to be sent to the custo- 
mer's house. 

As an example of how laboratory milk is ordered by the physi- 
cian, Dr. Rotch gives the following prescription for a healthy 
infant of four months. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 773 

Per cent. Reaction slightly alkaline. 

Fat 4 Number of feedings, 7. 

Milk Sugar .... 7 Amount at each feeding, 4J oz. 

Proteins T50 Heated for, 20 minutes. 

Heated at, 167 F. 

More recently by the use of whey, the protein constituents 
can be split up and ordered as casein and lactalbumin in the 
percentage desired. 

The advantages claimed for this method are that the composi- 
tion of the milk is exactly determined so that it may be made the 
same as healthy breast milk, or may be altered by the physician 
to suit the infant's requirements. The milk is sterile, free from 
dirt, and has not lost its quality of freshness, unless sterilized at 
too high a temperature or for too long a time. It is said to be 
suitable for healthy infants and to prevent digestive disturbances, 
as well as cure them, in those who have not had a similiar diet. 
It is possible that in America the infantile stomach does re- 
quire some such milk, for one cannot but be struck by the amount 
of writing and the diversity of opinion in that country on the 
subject of infant feeding. In this country there are but few milk 
laboratories, and the need for them does not appear to be very 
urgent. When pure fresh milk is obtainable the needs of the 
infant can be met by simple home modifications, and when it is 
not obtainable no laboratory treatment will render stale milk 
wholesome. The retail price of laboratory milk, about Sd. 
per quart, will tend to put it beyond the reach of most. 
Opinions still differ as to the effects of this mechanical 
treatment of milk, the splitting it up and the recombination. 
Some hold that both the proteins and the fats are rendered 
less digestible. It is admitted by all that a considerable 
amount of practice is required before the exact percentage 
amounts necessary for different infants can be learned. Many 
clinicians find themselves unable to determine those minute per- 
centage differences in the proteins, fats, etc., which are placed at 
their disposal by this method. Many hold that such minute 
differences are not called for in infant feeding. In the pre-labora- 
tory days, the differences of opinion as to milk feeding were as- 
cribed to the want of any definite composition in the milk, now 
the differences of opinion seem to take place over which standard 



774 

to select, when the various solids of milk can be differentiated to 
two decimal points. The tendency in this country, and we think 
it is a wise one, is to have as little tampering with the milk as 
possible, and this system of separating, recombining and sterilizing 
milk opens the door to many possibilities of error in the prepara- 
tion. No one can tell that the milk supplied is the same as the 
milk ordered. One ignorant or careless dispenser may be pro- 
ductive of much mischief. 

Before recommending the use of laboratory milk we should 
like to see some more evidence of the necessity for it in this coun- 
try, and some more unanimity of opinion as to its advantages in 
America. 

Many dairies in this country subject the milk to a process of 
separation and combination with cream and sugar in order to 
form a mixture which is known as " humanized milk." It is 
supposed to resemble breast milk in chemical composition. This 
preparation has no advantages over milk which has been modified 
at home, and the composition of the mixture cannot be regarded 
as uniformly the same. 

4. Municipal milk. Within recent years the feeding of 
infants has been taken up by some municipal authorities as a 
means of preventing the great mortality during the first year of 
life. The French, led by the late Professor Budin of Paris, have 
been the pioneers of this work, and in France each milk distribut- 
ing centre, known as a " Consultation de Nourissons " or " Goutte 
de Lait," is either self-supporting or is aided by the funds of the 
charitable. At first these centres were started by the energy 
and enthusiasm of some medical man who was familiar with the 
problems of infant feeding, but more recently some of the muni- 
cipalities have taken up the work. In England the municipal 
milk depots have been modelled on the French system and are 
under the supervision of the district medical officer of health. 
Special measures are taken to ensure that the milk supplied shall 
be from a well kept farm and of good quality. After being cooled 
at the farm it is sent to the depot in sealed churns and is there 
strained, modified according to the age of the infant, bottled and 
sterilized. Each bottle holds enough for one meal, and the mother 
receives a sufficient supply of these bottles for one day. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 775 

With the excellent intentions of those who have introduced 
these municipal depots, and with the undoubted benefits conferred 
on the mothers by the advice they receive, we have not here to 
deal. If this system is to spread medical men will wish to know 
whether the infants are fed in a proper manner. The chief aim of 
the supporters of the system is to prevent the great mortality 
in infants under twelve months of age caused by infantile diarrhoea, 
as is known, and by tuberculosis, as is believed by many. This 
is secured by supplying sterilized milk direct to the infant. Tables 
have been put forward which profess to demonstrate a great 
reduction in the infantile death rate throughout the areas supplied 
by municipal milk. In these reports diseases which are not 
fatal, but which may be traceable to the method of feeding, are 
not considered, nor will fatal results after the age of twelve months, 
although traceable to dietetic faults in the earlier months, be 
tabulated. 

Cases of scurvy from the use of municipal milk have been 
reported. The advantages and disadvantages of sterilization 
have been already discussed, and we have pointed out that steril- 
ized milk does not appear to be a safe diet for infants. Nor does 
it appear advisable to modify the milk for infants according to 
an age standard only, to give one and all the same food in the 
same amount with the same regularity. Their minds later on 
will be fed on this system at the board schools, but it is not 
asking too much to request a little more attention to the indivi- 
dual requirements of their bodies during the earliest months of 
life. If municipal authorities could only ensure a supply of fresh, 
pure, unadulterated^milk through the districts which they control, 
by the direct supervision of farms and dairies, they would un- 
doubtedly lower the death rate and raise the standard of health 
amongst infants to a far greater extent than the milk depots can 
ever do. 

5. Budin's method. Professor Budin introduced the method 
of feeding infants on sterilized milk, without dilution or 
addition. He was led to adopt this plan because in his experience 
infants fed on diluted milk were obliged to absorb great quanti- 
ties of fluid which caused them to pass a large amount of urine, 
and because they were almost always crying from hunger. On the 



776 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

other hand he found the feeding was greatly simplified by 
using undiluted sterilized milk. During the first month of life 
it may be necessary to use a slight amount of dilution owing to 
the larger amount of casein or fat that may be present in cows' 
milk, but his custom has been to avoid dilution unless under 
special circumstances. If the food did not agree he considered 
that the ill effects were due to too much food having been given. 
The amount of whole milk to be ordered for an infant varies from 
400 to 600 grammes (14 to 21 oz.). He claimed to get most satis- 
factory results ; amongst others " no tumid abdomens, no undi- 
luted milk dyspepsia, no rickets, no eczema, no tuberculosis, no 
scurvy, and no weakness or flabbiness." His method has received 
the support of some distinguished accoucheurs in this country. 

The first thing that strikes one about this method is the fact 
that infants should thrive on it at all, as cows' milk differs so 
markedly in chemical composition from breast milk. Apparently 
it has been possible in Paris to rear infants on undiluted 
cows' milk. The sterilization employed is probably an import- 
ant factor, as the curd formed in milk after exposure to a high 
temperature is soft and may more easily slip through the pylorus. 
Dr. Cautley suggests that in such cases the digestion must be 
mainly intestinal. It is generally recognized that whole cows' 
milk is not suited to an infant's digestive powers owing to the large 
protein content. If these proteins are chemically altered by 
heating so as to be tolerated in large amount the stomach has 
probably got to deal with some unnatural food. The effects of 
sterilized milk on an infant's nutrition have been already con- 
sidered, and the experience of most has condemned it. It will 
therefore require a good deal more proof of the advantage of 
Budin's method than has been forthcoming so far before physi- 
cians will adopt this system. In weakly infants and in diseased 
conditions the dilution of the proteins has been found an important 
part of successful feeding with cows' milk. Universal experience 
of this kind cannot be upset by dogmatic statements. Professor 
Budin seems to have been particularly unfortunate in his experi- 
ences with simple modification of the milk, a method which has 
firmly established itself as suitable for the majority of infants. 

6. Top milk. The importance of securing a full amount of 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 777 

fat in the dietary, and especially in the natural form of gravity 
cream, has led to the adoption of top milk mixtures by many. 
The upper portion of the milk after standing is separated from 
the lower and used for the infant. This is done by using a glass 
vessel with a* large opening and syphoning off the lower portion 
of the milk, which is to be used for puddings, etc., or the upper 
half or third of the milk, as may be considered best for the in- 
fant, may be ladled off. Chapin's dipper may be used for this 
purpose. 

Dr. Ashby's plan is as follows : Thirty ounces of fresh milk 
are placed in a glass bottle and allowed to stand for four or five 
hours in a cool place, the opening of the bottle being closed with 
cotton wool. At the end of this time the upper 10 oz. will 
contain an average of 10 per cent, fat while the upper 15 oz. 
will contain 1\ per cent fat. The lower two-thirds (20 oz.), 
or the lower half (15 oz.) should then be syphoned off, according 
to the strength required, and replaced by water with 1 oz. of 
sugar-of-milk dissolved in it. 

The mixture is pasteurized and then cooled rapidly in running 
water or ice. The weaker mixture will contain protein 1-1-3 
per cent, fat 3-3*5 per cent, and milk sugar 6 per cent, while 
the stronger will contain protein 1-75 per cent, fat 3-35 per cent 
and sugar 6 per cent, i.e. a slightly larger amount of protein. 
Infants at the age of three weeks should be able to take top milk 
containing 10 per cent fat diluted with two parts of sugar- water, 
and at the age of three or four months, top milk with 7 per cent 
cream, diluted with an equal quantity of sugar-water. The 
strength of the cream mixture can be diminished for weakly 
infants, or those suffering from digestive disturbances. 

Dr. Cautley gives the following details. Fresh cows' milk is 
allowed to stand for three hours, and the top half is separated. 
This contains about 8 per cent of fat and the usual percentages 
of protein and sugar. For an infant under three months 
he takes 5 oz. of this top milk, and adds 1 oz. of lime-water, 
6$ drachms of sugar and 14 oz. of water. The mixture will then 
have the following composition : protein 1 per cent, fat 2 per cent 
and sugar 5 per cent. If the mixture is well digested, the strength 
can be gradually increased by adding 1 oz. of top milk and sub- 



778 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

tracting 1 oz. of water, once or twice a week, until the mixture 
consists of top milk 10 oz., lime-water 1 oz. and water 9 oz. 
(or a percentage of the solids given above, 2-4-6). If more 
fat is required in the food, all that is necessary is to use the 
top third or the top fourth, in making the mixture. He finds that 
by this method with very little trouble and with sufficient accur- 
acy the diet can be altered in details in any particular case, pro- 
vided that a milk of fairly steady average composition is used 
and that the details are carefully carried out. 

More elaborate variations in the use of top milk have been 
described, but the above methods are simple and efficient. The 
advantage in maintaining a full amount of fat in the dietary in 
the form of natural cream is evident. In families where time and 
brain power are available for carrying out the details this method 
will be found most useful. The quality of the milk is not inter- 
fered with in any way and it may be boiled or not according to 
the conditions previously discussed. There are no drawbacks 
associated with this method which might prove prejudicial to 
the infant's health at a later period. At the same time the 
strength of the milk in cream must be regulated by the physician. 
Experience has shown that the natural instinct of the mother is 
to make the mixture as strong as possible and that fat indiges- 
tion is apt to follow. A mixture containing from 6 to 8 per cent 
of fat is not readily tolerated for long, and such mixtures will 
often be made by the use of top milk unless the precise directions 
of the physician are correctly carried out. Owing to the varying 
strength of cows' milk in cream, it is advisable to take rather less 
top milk than the above mathematical calculations would suggest, 
so as to avoid indigestion from excess of fat. 

7. Whey. This is sometimes employed as a modification of 
milk by which the insoluble proteins are removed. Whey is 
prepared by adding a drachm of liquid rennet to half a pint of 
warm milk (104F.). After the mixture has been stirred it is 
allowed to stand until coagulation has taken place. The curd is 
then broken up thoroughly and the whey is strained off through 
muslin or a strainer. Half a pint of milk yields 7 oz. of 
whey. The approximate composition of whey is as follows : 
proteins '8 per cent, fat 1 per cent, and sugar 4 g 75 per cent. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 779 

The chief protein is lactalbumin, the casein having been sepa- 
rated in the curd. Sometimes whole milk and sometimes sepa- 
rated milk is used, the difference in the result consisting of the 
larger amount of fat from the former. When whey is kept any 
time or is to be mixed with other food it is necessary to heat it 
to a temperarture of 160 F. or boil it in order to check further 
changes from the rennet ferment. When used as a food for 
infants the deficiency in fat must be made up by the addition 
of cream. 

The advantages claimed for whey are that the proteins are very 
digestible, and although in small quantity they are sufficient, 
with the addition of those in cream. For ordinary cases it is 
doubtful whether the trouble of preparation is justified by the 
result, and whether the normal stomach should not be employed 
more actively in doing its proper work. As a temporary measure 
in cases of difficult digestion or disease whey is most useful, and 
its application in such cases will be considered later on. 

Dr. Still considers that whey may be used with great benefit 
as a diluent of cows' milk in infant feeding. The proportion of 
curd-forming caseinogen is reduced without reducing the propor- 
tion of lactalbumin, and the mixture approximates more nearly 
to human milk in respect of its lactalbumin than is possible with 
any other diluent. He shows this in the following table. 



. 


Mixture. 


Resulting Percentages. 


Milk 


6 drachms. 


Casein, 0'81 per cent. 


Whey 


18 


Lactalbumin, 0'75 .. 


Cream (48 per cent fat) 
Milk sugar ... 


1 drachm, 
i level teaspoonful. 


Fat . . . 3-87 
Sugar . . 6-50 



This is a very close imitation of breast milk as regards the 
chemical composition, but it requires very careful supervision 
of the ingredients and their preparation to ensure correct results. 

8. Citrated milk. Attempts have been made to overcome 
the casein difficulty in cows' milk by the addition of citrate of soda. 
In 1893 Wright drew attention to the importance of the calcium 
of cows' milk in producing the dense curd. Human milk con- 
tains '03 per cent of lime, while cows' milk contains '17 per cent. 



780 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The chief base in human milk is potash, while in most other milks 
it is lime. This excess of lime in cows' milk can be dispensed with 
without injury to the nutrition of the infant, as the lime is pre- 
sumably there with a view to the calf's walking powers being 
called into play almost immediately after birth, and an infant 
does not walk for a year. Rennet coagulation is delayed and 
curdling becomes less and less firm as an increasing proportion 
of the lime salts of the milk becomes precipitated as insoluble 
salts. Wright found that the addition of a solution of citrate 
of soda sufficed to prevent any coagulation by rennet, by precipit- 
ating the lime as an insoluble salt, and he suggested the use of 
citrate of soda as a means of " humanizing " cows' milk for infants- 
The chemical changes involved are not exactly known, but are 
thus explained by Poynton. The caseinogen of milk is acid, and 
in the process of clotting combines with the calcium salts in the 
milk to produce the thick casein clot (calcium casein). Sodium 
citrate, when added to the milk, combines with the caseinogen, 
and a sodium compound is formed (sodium casein). The latter 
is of lower molecular weight than the calcium compound and 
hence of less density. The calcium salts of the milk combine 
with the citric acid to produce calcium citrate, which is absorbed 
into the system and so the lime is not lost to the economy. The 
density and toughness of the clot varies inversely with the 
amount of citrate of soda used, so that by increasing the amount 
a very fine coagulum is produced. For ordinary cases Poynton 
uses a solution of the strength of one grain of citrate of soda in a 
drachm of water. Of this 1 drachm is added for each ounce 
of milk in the food as prepared for use. Thus if an infant is 
taking 20 oz. of whole milk in the day, it will receive 20 
grains of citrate of soda. In cases in which a finer curd seems 
to be required he uses two or even three grains of citrate of soda 
to the ounce of milk. The amount of citrate of soda required 
by the infant can be determined after trial with a small dose by 
the moaunt of curd passed in the motions. When the solution is 
prepared in bulk, say 12 oz., a few drops of chloroform should 
be added to prevent a mould forming. The citrate of soda may 
also be obtained in the form of tabloids of one, two, or three 
grain strength, for convenience in travelling. Poynton has 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 781 

recommended his method chiefly in connexion with the weaning 
of infants, and for the correction of milk dyspepsia, but it has 
also enabled him to increase the amount of milk which can be 
taken in the twenty-four hours. He finds that the milk thus 
treated is palatable, is somewhat constipating, is well tolerated 
by most infants, and is followed by no bad effects, so far as he 
has seen. The method is a cheap one, citrate of soda costing about 
2d. an ounce, and it can be carried out in every domestic circle. 
Citrated milk has also been used as a method of feeding healthy 
infants by other physicians, who report favourably on its use. 

The advantage claimed here is the diminished denseness of 
the casein and the increased digestibility of the milk. A sufficient 
time has not elapsed to test thoroughly the results of this 
method. The addition to the diet of citrate of soda in the doses 
prescribed is not probably injurious in itself, although such chemical 
treatment of milk should preferably be avoided. As Poynton 
states, citrates are a normal constituent of cows' milk and are 
not known to act injuriously on the body. There is no evidence 
that the stomach is not called on to do a proper amount of work 
in digesting the milk, and the excessive dilution which is called 
for by some forms of modification is here unnecessary. We think 
that this method is worthy of a full trial at the hands of the 
profession, both as regards healthy infants and those who do not 
take kindly to diluted cows' milk. 

9. Predigested milk. Another method of overcoming the 
difficulty in digesting the casein of cows' milk is to employ some 
digestive ferment to peptonize the milk before use. The stomach 
is then not called on to perform the whole process of digestion, 
and gastric disturbances may be avoided. Various powders and 
fluids are employed as peptonizing agents, but for infants' use 
Fairchild's peptogenic milk-powder will be found most suitable. 
Each powder contains the ferment necessary for a certain amount 
of milk, cream and water, along with bicarbonate of soda, to 
render the mixture alkaline, and milk-sugar to bring the carbo- 
hydrate material up to the normal standard. The milk, cream, 
water and powder are mixed according to the directions supplied, 
and the mixture is kept at a temperature of 104F. for ten, twenty, 
or thirty minutes, according to the degree of peptonization 



782 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

required. It is then quickly brought to the boil in order to check 
the further action of the ferment. Chemical analysis shows that 
milk thus prepared resembles breast milk very closely, and the 
similarity is seen also in connexion with the stomach, where 
peptonized milk forms a soft flocculent mass like the curd of 
foreast milk. 

The value of this method of treating milk does not lie in the 
feeding of healthy infants. The plan is not physiological, for the 
stomach is meant to do its own work of digestion and not to 
have predigested food supplied. One cannot expect the stomach 
to develop normally unless it performs its own proper functions. 
Further, we are dealing here with foods which form a safe diet for 
infants, and predigested milk does not come into this category. 
Many cases of ansemia and scurvy and failure of nutrition have 
been traced to the prolonged use of predigested milk It is 
probably the case that these occurred when prolonged peptoniza- 
tion had been carried out, say for an hour or longer, but the fact 
remains that perfect nutrition cannot be expected when the 
food is artificially predigested. The value of peptonized milk is 
seen in connexion with the special feeding required by premature 
or weakly infants and in cases of disease. This subject will be 
referred to later 

10. Addition of decoctions of cereals. We have already re- 
ferred to the use of barley-water as a diluent. This, if made as 
directed for infants, is not of any nutritive value, but is a bland 
fluid which diminishes, to a slight extent, the denseness of the 
curd in the stomach. Some able writers (Jacoby, Chapin, etc.) 
have recommended that stronger decoctions of cereals, barley, 
wheat, or oats, should be added to the milk not only as an aid to 
digestion but also for their nutritive properties. As with many 
other substances, it may be possible to rear infants on these 
decoctions, but the method is not in accordance with nature's 
teaching. The only carbo-hydrate in breast milk is milk-sugar, and 
starches do not occur in any form. Another practical difficulty 
in connexion with the use of these decoctions is that, although 
they may be prescribed in a dilute form, the tendency of the nurse 
will be to make them stronger and stronger, in the belief that 
they are so much more nourishing than milk. In the case of 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 783 

healthy children they are not required, and in the case of infants 
with weak digestion they are probably injurious. 

We have now considered the various forms of modifying cows' 
milk which are employed in the feeding of infants. There are 
other food preparations on the market, each of which is recom- 
mended by the makers as a complete food for infants. There are 
dried milk preparations, condensed milk, and the so-called 
" infants' foods," usually containing more or less starch. They 
have been fully described in another section of this volume. 
Every opportunity has been seized by the public to try these 
food substitutes, and consequently the medical profession has 
also been able to test their value. All have been proved and 
have been found wanting. Many forms of disease are directly 
traceable to their prolonged and exclusive use. As regards 
healthy infants, therefore, these foods should not form part of the 
diet up to the age of nine months. After that age they may be 
employed in moderation as a part of the diet. The question of 
their employment in certain cases of disease and debility will 
be considered later. 

In connexion with the subject of these proprietary prepara- 
tions we may consider the meaning of the term " a complete 
food for infants." From the medical standpoint a complete 
food for infants, during the first nine months, must fulfil the 
following requirements. It must contain the various elements, 
proteins, fats, and carbo-hydrates, which are found in breast milk, 
in a proportion suited to an infant's digestive powers, and in 
amount sufficient for the requirements of all the growing tissues. 
Per contra, it must not contain elements which are not found in 
breast milk, and which are not suitable to an infant's digestive 
powers. It must consist of fresh or living food, which means 
that it must not have lost its freshness through keeping, or pro- 
longed heating, or drying, or predigestion. It must be free from 
extraneous organisms, or contain them only in such numbers 
as not to affect injuriously the food or the gastro-intostinal 
mucous membrane. It must not, in the process of preparation, 
be treated by mechanical or other means, as to alter the compon- 
ent elements and render them unsuitable for digestion. 



784 A 

Were some such standard adopted in connexion with the feed- 
ing of healthy infants, a number of foods which are now largely 
used would be entirely abolished, with great benefit to the rising 
generation. 

THE DIET AFTER WEANING 

Diet from Dine to twelve months. We have been considering 
hitherto the food materials suited to an infant during: the first 

O 

stage of life which terminates at nine months. This epoch is 
marked by the eruption of the first tooth, which is supposed to 
indicate the time for weaning. 

In the case of breast-fed children the ordinary time to com- 
mence weaning is at the age of eight or nine months. At the 
same time if the mother has plenty of milk and is healthy, and 
if the infant is thriving and satisfied, there is no harm in continu- 
ing the process until the child is twelve months old. Under 
certain conditions it may be advisable to do so, for example in 
the middle of the hot season, when it is so difficult to obtain 
fresh pure cows' milk. Also if there have been serious feeding 
difficulties in the earlier stages of the nursing, the weaning may 
be deferred as it will probably be a time of further difficulties 
which the infant will be better able to meet later on. 

If it has been decided on medical grounds that weaning is 
advisable it should not be deferred because " the baby won't 
take anything but the breast." This is purely a figment of the 
maternal imagination, and history does not relate any example 
of a healthy infant committing suicide by refusing bottle food. 
The weaning process should be carried out gradually and may 
be spread over three weeks or a month, so as to accustom the 
infant and its digestive organs to the change of food. Cows' 
milk, in one of the modifications described, should be given. A 
mixture of milk, cream, and malt extract will be found suitable, 
diluted with an equal amount of plain water or barley-water to 
begin with. The time selected for the first bottle should be one 
when a healthy appetite is present, increased perhaps by an 
added feeling of hunger from a longer fast than usual. The infant 
will then be less critical about the change of nourishment and 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 785 

feeding apparatus. In some cases a considerable amount of 
patience and perseverance will be called for. After weaning other 
foods may be added as in the case of bottle-fed babies. 

The bottle-fed baby has no weaning process to pass through 
at this age. By some it is held that before the age of nine months 
an infant should have some farinaceous food in addition to cows' 
milk, but as a rule this is neither necessary nor desirable in the 
case of healthy infants. In some cases such food may be ordered 
medically, as for example in the presence of indigestion or con- 
stipation. Cows' milk supplies all the physiological requirements 
of an infant up to the age of nine months. For the following 
three months no other food is absolutely necessary, but the digest- 
ive organs are now capable of dealing with carbo-hydrate material 
in some other form than sugar alone. The great change at this 
age is the addition of other carbo-hydrate material to the diet, but 
this is to supplement and not to replace cows' milk. While 
both the quality and the quantity of the added carbo-hydrate are 
important, the chief danger lies in the latter. The tendency of 
mothers and nurses is to increase the amount of carbo-hydrate 
too rapidly, in the belief that the more it takes the stronger will 
the child be. Thus the digestive organs may be overtaxed and 
the tissues may be loaded with an excessive amount of carbo- 
hydrate material. 

The cereals in common use at this stage are wheat, barley, and 
oats. Oatmeal porridge, although largely used in Scotland, seems 
to be regarded with distrust in England. It is considered to be 
" heating " a somewhat vague term and to be responsible for 
the production of spots on the skin. The real drawback to its 
use is that it requires prolonged boiling to be thoroughly digestible 
and this may explain its unpopularity in certain quarters. The 
question of easy and rapid preparation is an important one in 
many households and largely determines the nature of the food 
to be used. As a first addition to the diet, we may begin with 
one of the good proprietary foods for infants, in which the starch 
has been converted, e.g. Mellin's, or Savory and Moore's, or 
Benger's. When this is tolerated, we may change to wheat flour 
or prepared barley, or bread, or bread jelly prepared according 
to Dr. Cheadle's formula, or milk pudding. 

50 



786 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The preparation of wheat flour, according to Dr. Eustace 
Smith, is as follows : A covered earthenware jar filled with the 
flour is put in a slow oven. From time to time it is removed, 
and the contents stirred up from the bottom and sides so as to 
prevent the formation of hard lumps. When thoroughly baked 
the flour forms a soft greyish-coloured powder. For each meal 
one teaspoonful of the prepared flour is rubbed up with a table- 
spoonful of cold milk into a smooth paste. A second spoonful 
of cold milk is then added, and the rubbing is repeated until the 
mixture has the appearance of a perfectly smooth cream. A 
quarter of a pint of hot milk or milk and water is then poured 
upon the mixture, to the accompaniment of brisk stirring, and 
the food is ready for use. It may be sweetened with extract of 
malt instead of sugar. 

Prepared barley is cooked as follows : A tablespoonful of the 
ground barley is added to a pint of cold water and the mixture 
slowly boiled down to half a pint. Of this a dessertspoonful 
may be added to 6 oz. of milk for a meal. It is preferably 
sweetened with malt extract. It will be noted that barley-water 
as a diluent of milk for infants is different from the above and 
is not used for its nutritive properties. 

Bread and milk is prepared as follows : A slice of stale bread 
without crust is soaked in a basin of cold water for two hours ; 
the water is then poured off, the bread is beaten up, and over it 
is poured a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. This may be sweet- 
ened with sugar or malt extract. 

Dr. Cheadle's formula for bread jelly is more elaborate but 
produces a very digestible food. A thick slice of stale bread 
(4oz.) is soaked in a basin of cold water for six or eight hours 
and then squeezed out. The pulp is gently boiled in a pint 
of fresh water for an hour and a half. The thick gruel 
thus made is strained, rubbed through a fine hair sieve, and 
allowed to cool, when it forms a smooth jelly. Enough of this 
is mixed with warm water to make a food of the consistence 
of thick cream (about one tablespoonful to eight oz. of water) ; 
a little white sugar may be added. 

The full dietary at this age may be said to be reached when the 
infant is taking from one and a half to two pints a day of undi- 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 787 

luted cows' milk, and two meals a day of thin oatmeal porridge 
and milk, or boiled bread and milk, or milk pudding. Dilution 
of the milk is not necessary, but one or two oz. of gravity cream 
may be given in the case of healthy and strong infants. The 
farinaceous material should be given at first in small quantity 
and later on in increasing amount, but never more than twice 
daily. The total number of meals in the day should not exceed 
five. Spoon-feeding should be begun as soon as possible, but as 
regards that matter, and also the addition of solids, due deference 
must be paid to the infant's own ideas, which are sometimes very 
decided. In some cases it will be found that solids are persist- 
ently refused, and that anything of a greater consistency than 
milk will not be swallowed. This peculiarity passes off in time. 
A few teaspoonfuls of orange- juice or grape- juice daily in water 
will be found serviceable all through infancy in supplying the 
antiscorbutic element in food which modern methods of treatment 
rather tend to destroy. Dr. Sim Wallace recommends that 
when the incisor teeth have been cut, the infant should be given 
some fresh sugar-cane, or fruit, or a stale crust to bite and gnaw at. 
He is firmly convinced of the faulty nature of a prolonged 
" pappy diet " and of the bad results in the shape of dental 
caries. Although many infants do not take early to biting we 
believe that some such biting process is an excellent training for 
that thorough chewing which is so essential later on. 



DIET DURING THE SECOND YEAR OF LIFE 

The same guiding principle is to be observed here, namely, 
that the child should have an amount of the three chief elements, 
proteins, fats, and carbo-hydrates, sufficient for the nutrition 
of the body, the repair of tissues, and the more active movements 
which are now developing. The digestive organs are now capable 
of dealing with more concentrated material so that more solid 
food can be given. The food must be of a nature suited to the 
young child and must be selected according to the guidance of 
experience. It is not to be inferred that the strengthening food 
-of a healthy adult is equally strengthening to the young and 



788 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

developing digestive organs of the infant. The teeth are present 
for a definite purpose, so that a certain amount of the food should 
be hard, and biting and chewing be rendered necessary. There 
should be no bottle-feeding after the first year as the infant can 
now take solids out of a spoon and fluids out of a cup. The meals 
should not exceed four in number and there should be no night 
feeding. The foods to be advised are those which are plain, 
wholesome and nourishing, and which at the same time call for 
the exercise of all the digestive powers. The foods to be avoided 
are the patent preparations of predigested or partially digested 
materials, the tinned and preserved foods of all kinds, whose only 
recommendation is that they are rapidly prepared, and the meat 
juices and beef soups which are popularly regarded as very nour- 
ishing. All these foods, which may serve a purpose in restoring 
a temporarily disabled digestion, are only a means of reducing 
the efficiency of a healthy stomach and preventing its develop- 
ment on normal lines. A considerable amount of variety in the 
meals is desirable, and is easily obtained within the limits of 
suitable food. 

Breakfast (to be selected from the following). Milk, por- 
ridge, boiled bread and milk, an egg, bread and butter, fat 
bacon. 

Half a pint of milk should be taken at breakfast. It may 
be given plain (hot or cold) or flavoured with cocoa, or along 
with porridge or bread. The porridge should at first be made 
of fine oatmeal or groats, or rolled oats, and should be of semi- 
fluid consistency. Later it should be thicker and made of coarser 
oatmeal. The refined preparations of oatmeal are more rapidly 
cooked and more easily digested, but they do not possess the same 
amount of nitrogenous and mineral matters as the coarse. Boiled 
bread and milk is palatable and nutritious, and can be made 
thicker, as the child grows. An egg contains a large amount of 
nutriment, which as a rule is suited to most infants, but in a 
certain number produces disagreeable results. This can only be 
determined by experience, but if really fresh eggs could always 
be obtained, the results would probably be more generally 
favourable. The yolk of an egg can be given, beaten up in milk. 
After fifteen months of age the whole egg can be given, lightly 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 789 

boiled, or poached, or scrambled, with bread and butter. At 
this age also a piece of fat bacon supplies the fatty element in 
a digestible and palatable form. 

Dinner (to be selected from the following). Milk, potato, 
gravy, milk pudding, suet pudding, stewed fruit, biscuit, rusks, 
bread, raw fruit, pounded chicken or fish. 

From 5 to 10 oz. of milk should be taken at dinner. 
Potatoes are much relished by children, and mixed with milk or 
gravy or butter they form a useful part of the diet. Potatoes 
should be boiled until of a floury consistency and then put through 
a sieve. Beginning with a teaspoonful of this the amount may 
be gradually increased until two tablespoonfuls are taken. All 
the milk puddings are useful. At first they should be of a creamy 
consistency and watery but gradually they are to be made thicker. 
A milk pudding may be made as follows. One tablespoonful of 
rice or tapioca, after being thoroughly washed, is put into a pie 
dish with a pint of milk and allowed to stand for an hour. It 
is then sweetened, and baked in a slow oven for an hour. Suet 
puddings supply a large amount of fatty material, and some jam 
or golden syrup or stewed fruit may be combined with them. An 
orange or a banana or some grapes form a pleasant finish to the 
meal. During the latter half of the second year some pounded 
fish or chicken may be given occasionally at this meal. Plain 
biscuits or rusks should be eaten as they call into play the mas- 
ticatory apparatus more than soft bread does. There should 
not be more than two courses at dinner time. 

Tea. Milk (half a pint), cocoa and milk, bread and butter, 
biscuits, rusks, honey, jam, an egg occasionally. 

As regards intermediate meals at this age, one will allow at 
first some milk or boiled biscuit and milk between breakfast 
and dinner, and some hot milk before going to bed if desired. 
Dr. Sim Wallace points out that a drink of milk is not the best 
thing before going to bed as it leaves a suitable nidus about the 
teeth for micro-organisms to develop in. This may prove a 
factor in dental caries. He recommends instead some tooth- 
cleaning food such as a piece of stale bread or dry biscuit, and 
this should preferably be given as soon as the child has reached 
the chewing age. This age is reached much sooner if the child 



790 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

is accustomed early to hard foods, which call into play the 
masticatory powers. 

Dr. Eustace Smith recommends the following dietaries 

Prom twelve to eighteen months of age. 

First meal, 7.30 a.m. A rusk, or a slice of stale bread, well 
soaked in a breakfast cupful of new milk. 

Or the yolk of a lightly boiled egg, a slice of thin bread and 
butter, and a cupful of new milk. 

Second meal, 11 a.m. A drink of milk, with a slice of thin 
bread and butter or a biscuit. 

Third meal, 1.30 p.m. A teacupful of good beef-tea (1 Ib. 
of meat to the pint) or of beef gravy, with rusk. A good table- 
spoonful of light farinaceous pudding. 

Or a mealy potato, well mashed with a spoon, moistened with 
two tablespoonfuls of good beef gravy. A cupful of new milk. 

Fourth meal, 5.30 p.m. Same as the first. 

Or a rusk or slice of stale bread, well soaked in a breakfast 
cupful of milk. 

Fifth meal, 11 p.m. (if required). A drink of milk, 

From eighteen months to two years old. 

First meal, 7.30 a.m. A breakfast cupful of new milk, with 
a rusk, or half a slice of bread soaked in the liquid fat of hot fried 
bacon. 

Or a breakfast cupful of new milk, with the lightly boiled yolk 
of one egg, and thin bread and butter. 

Second meal, 11 a.m. A cup of milk and a biscuit. 

Third meal, 1.30p.m. Underdone roast mutton (pounded in 
a warm mortar), a good tablespoonful, with one well mashed 
potato, moistened with two or three tablespoonfuls of gravy. 
For drink, filtered water or toast water. 

Or a breakfast cupful of beef -"tea, containing a few well boiled 
asparagus heads when in season, or a little thoroughly stewed 
flower of broccoli. A good tablespoonful of plain custard pudding. 

Fourth meal, 5.30 p.m. A breakfast cupful of milk, with thin 
bread and butter. 

Dr. Edmund Cautley recommends the following diet from 
twelve to eighteen months of age 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 791 

First meal, at 6 to 7 a.m. 6 oz. of boiled milk, hot or 
cold ; a slice of stale bread, or a rusk broken up and soaked in 
the milk, or a slice of thin bread with dripping or butter. 

Second meal, at 8 to 9 a.m. One of these daily : A small 
basin of bread and milk. A little fine oatmeal porridge, with 
cream or milk. A basin of thick milk gruel. A cup of thin 
cocoa made with milk, and a little thin bread and butter. 

Third meal, at 1 p.m. First course : One of the following : 
Mashed baked old potato moistened with milk, chicken or mutton 
broth, the red gravy of undercooked meat, or meat juice (1-3 
oz.). Lightly boiled or poached yolk of egg mixed up with stale 
bread crumbs, or mashed potato and gravy. Stale bread crumbs 
soaked in gravy or meat juice. 

Second course : One of the following : A large tablespoonful 
of custard, tapioca, cornflour, ground rice, or semolina pudding, 
blancmange, or junket. 

Cold boiled water or milk and water to drink. 

Fourth meal, at 5 p.m. The same as the first, or thin cocoa 
with bread and butter. 

Fifth meal, at 9 p.m. A large cupful of milk gruel, made with 
rice, sago, tapioca, or hominy. Or, a rusk or sponge finger 
soaked in milk. 

Experience has shown that certain dangers are present in 
connexion with the feeding at this age. It is very common to 
find that the young child is supplied with too much carbo-hydrate 
and too little fatty food. The excess of carbo-hydrate is often 
supplied in the form of bread and butter or sweet pudding. It 
may be from pressing on the part of the parent or from the 
palatability of the food that too much is taken, but a limit must 
be placed on the consumption of these popular articles. A child 
with a healthy appetite will not as a rule eat too much plain 
food, but sweetened up articles of diet may prove too attractive 
from their sweetness. When a sufficient amount has been taken 
it is better to offer a dry biscuit or a piece of dry bread, which 
will satisfy any remaining appetite without disturbing the diges- 
tion. Many children do not get a sufficient amount of fat. By 
some young people fat is avoided in certain forms from a natural 



792 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

distaste which, however, passes off as a rule in the course of 
time. Children should not be compelled to eat the forms of 
fat they dislike, for a positive repugnance may thus be established. 
As a rule, amongst the various forms of food in which fat is present, 
such as cream, butter, bacon, oil (cod-liver or salad), dripping, 
suet, and yolk of egg, it is possible to find some palatable 
variety. The most marked dislike is to beef and mutton fat. As 
fat is most important for the growth of the body, and carbo-hy- 
drates fail to meet this demand, a sufficiency of animal fat must 
be administered. The tendency to like certain articles of food 
and to dislike others must be checked, as it simply means that 
the more palatable are preferred. This evil is often started by 
giving infants milk which has been too much sweetened and a dis- 
taste follows for less highly flavoured foods. Some young children 
will take very readily to beef and mutton, but these must be 
given in strictly limited amounts. Coaxing to take more food at 
meals should never be indulged in. Healthy children do not 
require coaxing, and loss of appetite is often nature's method 
of securing a curative fast for some temporary disturbance. If 
coaxing to eat is employed when the stomach and liver are 
upset by too much food the result will simply be an aggravation 
of the disturbance. It is a bad plan to bring young children to 
the family table. They are much better placed in the nursery 
where they can eat without distraction. At the family table 
there are many things which they should not eat, which they 
promptly demand, and which they too often get. As the meals 
become more solid, young children should be encouraged to drink 
water freely between meals. Effervescing waters are not palat- 
able at this age, but fresh water should always be at hand. Tea, 
coffee, and all forms of alcoholic fluids are to be strictly forbidden. 



DIET IN CHILDHOOD 

Diet from the second to the seventh year. The alterations 
in the diet at this period are as regards the quantity rather than 
the quality of the food materials. The active exercises which 
characterize a child at this age call for an increased amount 
of carbo-hydrates and of proteins, in other words of energy- 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 793 

producing and muscle-forming material. The meals should be 
three in number and no feeding between meals should be encour- 
aged. At the same time if the child is really hungry, a piece of 
dry bread or biscuit with an apple may be given occasionally. 
It is a parent's duty to satisfy the appetite of the child, not 
to try and coax it with sweets and strongly flavoured delicacies. 

Milk should still be an important part of the diet, either plain 
or in puddings or with cocoa. Tea and coffee should be deferred 
until the latter part of this period, and then should only be used 
as a flavouring to the milk. Eggs and butter and cream should 
also form a regular part of the diet. 

The proteins of meat are very digestible and very appetizing 
but must not be given in excess owing to their stimulating pro- 
perties. A little minced or finely cut beef or mutton may be 
given every second or third day. Fish in the form of boiled or 
steamed sole, whiting, haddock, herring, or cod is more suitable. 
Chicken, rabbit, calf's head, and game which is tender but not 
high, will be found to be palatable and to lend a sufficient amount 
of variety in the diet. Meat soups should not be made strong. 
A small amount of meat stock may be used as flavouring to make 
vegetable soups with carrots, turnips, rice, cabbage, potatoes, etc. 
For a few years these may be given after straining, but later all 
the vegetables present in the soup may be taken. Beef essences, 
meat juices, and prepared concentrated foods are not required 
by children in health. The training in mastication should be 
perse veringly continued by the use of some hard articles of food. 
Until this is learned it may be necessary to give meat in a 
pounded, minced, or shredded form. The habit of bolting the food, 
acquired from the fluid diet of infancy, must be checked, and 
a slow methodical habit of eating should be acquired early in life. 

Bread forms a most important element in the diet. The 
amount of bread and butter or jam that an active four year old 
child will consume at a meal is astonishing. Care must be taken, 
however, that the butter or jam is not the element which makes 
the bread go down. White or brown bread may be used and 
it should be at least twenty-four hours old. It may be plain, 
or toasted. All plain biscuits are also to be allowed, sweetened 
ones being regarded as an occasional luxury. 



794 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

All the cereals are useful. Porridge, oatmeal or hominy, with 
milk, syrup, or sugar. Farinaceous puddings of all kinds. If 
well cooked, puddings are readily taken by children. 

Of fresh vegetables the potato is the most popular, and in 
fact it is the only one which young children do not tire of. Pota- 
toes may be given plain boiled, or mashed, or fried. Cauliflower, 
cabbage, spinach, asparagus, tomatoes, and peas may be given. 
All tinned vegetables are to be avoided. 

The natural demand of the organism for sugar must be fully 
satisfied, and it is better to do so by the use of sugar in the food 
than by the artificial products of the manufacturer, which are 
often taken in excess apart from meals. Puddings and stewed 
fruit can be suitably sweetened. Honey, syrup, and jam can be 
taken with bread, biscuits, and puddings. At the same time 
it is not advisable to ruin the taste for plain foods by oversweeten- 
ing a number of the dishes. 

Fruits contain a considerable amount of sugar in a very assimil- 
able form. They also contain certain elements which are of 
especial importance in maintaining a healthy condition of the 
blood. Grapes, oranges, apples, bananas, pears, cherries and 
plums are suitable. They should form part of the regular diet 
of the child, so that some fruit is taken every day. In hot 
weather it will be found useful to reduce the amount of the more 
substantial elements of the diet and to increase the amount of the 
fruit and vegetables. Special care must be taken to ensure that 
the fruit is in proper condition, i.e. neither unripe nor too ripe, as 
unwholesome fruit disturbs the alimentary tract most seriously. 
Tinned fruits should not be used as a sufficiency of fresh fruit 
is always obtainable. 

DIET DURING SCHOOL UFE 

The child has now reached an age when, in addition to the 
requirements of the body for growth, repair and exercise, we have 
to consider the work of the brain in connexion with the diet. 
It is recognized by all that a growing boy or girl requires a large 
amount of nourishing food, and that at the same time the amount 
varies very largely with the individual. Consequently it is not 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 795 

advisable to stuff the child who does not appear to come up to 
an imaginary standard, nor to starve the child who seems to go 
beyond it. If the child is having a duly apportioned amount 
of work and play, of sleep and out of door exercise, his appetite 
will be the best guide as to the amount of food required. The 
appetite must be a healthy one, i.e. trained on a diet of wholesome 
plain foods, for a pampered appetite, previously developed on 
dainty highly seasoned dishes, cannot be regarded as of any value 
whatever as a test. Children with a debased appetite of this 
sort, which is of course due to faulty feeding at home, had better 
be sent to a boarding school at once where the social customs will 
soon effect a perfect, if at first a somewhat painful, cure. At 
this age one often meets with the child who cannot take this and 
cannot take that at home, although on physical examination 
no defects are visible. He or she had better also be sent to board 
at school. It cannot be too strongly impressed on parents that 
the inability of healthy children to take ordinary food is imaginary, 
is produced directly by previous erroneous feeding, and is fostered 
by parental weakness. The proof of this is shown by the fact 
that when the child is placed amongst other children who are 
eating ordinary food, the inability promptly disappears. On 
the other hand one must remember that there is not infrequently 
met with the neurotic boy or girl with certain idiosyncrasies as 
regards diet. These require special study and special treatment. 
The amount of exercise which a child takes in the open air will 
have a direct influence on the appetite, and also on the quantity 
of food he should take. Exercise before food should not be 
pushed to the extent of producing exhaustion, or both the appetite 
and the digestion will be impaired. The natural man tends to 
rest after a meal but the healthy child will be eager for exercise. 
Consequently it is not necessary to forbid such exercise, provided 
that it is of the nature of play, and not of a tiring character. A 
strenuous game of football immediately after dinner is distinctly 
injurious. 

The quality of the diet should be such that a due proportion 
of proteins, carbo-hydrates, and fats enter into it. The chief 
difference from the feeding in the earlier years is that a larger 
amount of beef and mutton is called for. Although the proteins 



796 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

required can be supplied in other foods, meat has the advantages 
of being the most concentrated, the most digestible, and the 
most palatable form in which they can be given. Meat should be 
given twice a day, once to provide for the wear and tear of the 
body and a second time to supply the means for growth, as Dr. 
Clement Dukes rather quaintly expresses it. Additional proteins 
are to be supplied in the form of milk, eggs, oatmeal, etc. 

The freshness of the food is a most important consideration. 
A preference is to be given to freshly killed English beef and 
mutton over the imported and frozen meats. Salted meats and 
tinned meats are useful as supplying a variety in the dietary, 
but if used too frequently they fail to supply the proper amount 
of nutrition, become monotonous, and lead to positive dislike 
and loss of appetite. Similarly tinned vegetables and fruits 
are to be reckoned as very inferior to fresh ones for regular use. 
If from any reason, such as the frequent use of preserved foods, 
a distaste for meat or vegetables is produced, the result will be 
that the feeling of hunger will lead the boy to satisfy it by eating 
undesirable things such as sweets, pastry, etc., in excess. These 
latter appeal to the boyish appetite at all times, and are not in 
themselves injurious when given in moderation at meals. It is 
when wholesome and appetizing food is not supplied at table 
that the habit of eating unwholesome things between meals is 
developed. 

The quality of the food depends greatly on the cooking. As 
plain cooking is all that a healthy boy's appetite demands, it 
is not asking too much to say that the food ought always to be 
well cooked. " Take what you get and be thankful " used to be 
a common saying in the domestic circle, but now we think that 
a boy who refuses to eat a raw steak or a charred piece of roast 
beef is justified, and the seniors who insist on his eating badly 
cooked food are unworthy of their position of responsibility. 

Tea and coffee may be added to the dietaries hitherto given, 
but should not be taken in excess or too strong. Milk at this 
age will be taken much more readily if flavoured with tea or coffee. 
With regard to alcohol for schoolboys, two questions may be 
asked : first, is it necessary, and secondly is it beneficial ? The 
consensus of medical opinion has decided both these questions 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 797 

in the negative. If then, on physical grounds, alcohol has been 
considered unnecessary and not beneficial, on moral grounds 
one can urge with confidence that alcohol should not form part 
of a youth's diet during school life. The use of alcohol for 
medical reasons is considered elsewhere. 

A system in vogue at certain boarding schools calls for notice. 
It is that of supplying only light articles of food at certain meals 
and allowing the boy to supplement those from home hampers 
or stuff bought at the tuck shop. The youth of twelve or fourteen 
is allowed to regulate his diet in accordance with his mature 
experience and likings. As a test of what a boy can eat and digest 
and still live this method is instructive and interesting, but on 
every other ground it is strongly to be condemned. While 
undoubtedly many parents are foolish as regards the way they 
feed boys and girls, one expects in an educational institution, 
where the development of the mind is presumably under careful 
supervision, that the development of the body will be equally 
carefully supervised. No one has yet suggested that at this 
mature age a boy should be allowed to decide what his lessons 
are to be and when he is to do them. But the choice of what 
and when he is to eat is left to the boy, without experience, 
without self-control, and without any knowledge of dietetics. 
School customs die hard, but the early death of this custom would 
be welcomed by all who have at heart the welfare of schoolboys. 

The chief meals of the day should be three in number, break- 
fast, dinner and supper. Of these the first two should be the 
substantial meals, while supper should consist of less stimulating 
material. Both on physical and moral grounds, as Dr. Clement 
Dukes has pointed out, it is inadvisable that the schoolboy should 
have a meal of stimulating and strong food a short time before 
going to bed. A boy should not be set to do any lessons in the 
morning before partaking of some food, although he may be 
allowed half an hour in the open air. If at least an hour is to 
elapse before breakfast he should have, after dressing, a break- 
fast cupful of hot milk and weak tea or coffee, equal parts, and 
a plain biscuit or piece of dry bread. A substantial breakfast 
should follow not more than an hour and a half after dressing. 
There should be no hurrying over meals, no bolting of the food, 



798 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

and no reading or conning of tasks, but conversation should be 
encouraged. Three-quarters of an hour at least are to be devoted 
to breakfast and the after breakfast functions, so that the brain 
is not taxed at all during that time. The dinner hour will usually 
follow four or five hours after the breakfast hour. This may 
prove too long an interval without food for the youthful appetite 
and, if desired, a piece of bread with an apple, or some such light 
food, may be given at 11 a.m. The dinner should be composed 
of two or three courses, and one of these should consist of a good 
supply of meat and vegetables. The later meals of adult life, 
afternoon tea and dinner, are at this age to be replaced by supper, 
which should be taken at least two hours before going to bed. 
The basis of this meal should be bread and butter, with honey, 
syrup, or jam, and there may be given in addition an egg, or 
fish, or plain salad in the case of strong appetites. With three 
good meals in the day no boy should suffer from hunger or from 
failure of nutrition from lack of food. While greediness as regards 
food must be checked in certain cases, as it breeds physical ills 
if tolerated, one must not allow a healthy appetite to remain un- 
satisfied on the ground that moderation is a desirable virtue. 
At many schools in the past the rule was to allow the minimum 
of food compatible with health ; in other words the children were 
kept in a state of chronic starvation. While certain strong con- 
stitutions might stand this without future ill-health accruing, 
in many cases the future growth and development were per- 
manently stunted. If error there is to be, then at the growing 
age under discussion let the error be on the side of allowing 
the maximum rather than the minimum amount of food. 

The value of a liberal diet during school life is strongly em- 
phasized by Dr. Clement Dukes, who can speak with authority 
on the subject. The following articles of food are selected from 
those given by him as suitable at this age (School Diet, 1899) 

Breakfast. Porridge. Bread. Hot rolls. Butter. Bacon, fried or 
boiled. Cold boiled ham. Ham or bacon and eggs. Eggs boiled, 
poached, buttered or fried. Kidney and bacon. Sausages. Fresh 
fish, boiled, fried or pickled, such as cod, flounder, haddock, halibut, 
herring, salmon, smelt, sole, turbot and whiting. Cold meat or 
cold meat pies. Mutton chops and beef steak. Brawn. Ox-cheek 
jelly. Milk, tea, coffee, and cocoa. 



THE FEEDING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN 799 

Dinner. Soups made with ox-kidney, sheep's head, shin of beef, ox-tail, 
meat stock, lentil, pea, artichoke, tapioca, vegetable marrow, or 
tomato. 

Meats beef, roast or boiled, mutton, veal, pork, steak, haricot 
mutton, Irish stew, rissoles, curry, rabbit, hare, steak pudding or pie. 

Vegetables all the ordinary vegetables, boiled. Plain salad of 
lettuce, cucumber, radishes, tomatoes, and watercress. 

Puddings. Fresh fruit tarts of all kinds in season. Jam tarts 
and puffs. Cheese cakes. Mince pies. Apple dumplings. Baked 
jam or treacle roll. Baked plum pudding. Boiled suet puddings 
with fresh or dried fruits or jam. Baked milk puddings, such as 
bread and butter, rice, sago, etc. Shapes, with jam. Fruit jellies. 
Apple charlotte. Curds and whey. Baked apples. Stewed fruit 
and rice or tapioca. Pancakes. Macaroni cheese. Cheese, e.g. 
Cheddar, Dutch, Gruyere. Water to drink. 

Supper. Eggs. Fish. Potted meat. Bread. Butter. Jam. Honey. 
Marmalade, Treacle. Buns. Cakes. Radishes, lettuces, water- 
cress. Milk, tea, coffee, cocoa. 

It will be admitted that the above supplies a sufficiently 
liberal and varied diet. It should meet all the requirements 
of the growing body, and even the special weakness of the school- 
boy in the matter of sweet things. Although fresh fruit is not 
included in the above dietary it is to be regarded as an essential 
part of the daily diet. As regards boarding schools Dr. Clement 
Dukes says that fresh fruits, cooked or uncooked, might be pro- 
vided more frequently than they are as an article of school diet. 
The nutritive value of fresh fruit is not great but the carbo-hydrate 
matter which chiefly abounds is in a form which appeals to the 
youthful palate. If fruit were more regularly given to boys 
there would be less trouble from the consumption of the more 
injurious articles of the tuck shop. The action of fresh fruit on 
the bowels and on the blood renders this food material specially 
suitable for growing boys. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 



51 



CHAPTER XXVII 

DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 
BY G. A. SUTHERLAND, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

General considerations on disorders of digestion. On 

entering on the subject of disorders of digestion in early 
life it may be stated at once that diet plays the chief part 
both in the causation and in the treatment. So generally is 
this recognized to be the case that not infrequently a physical 
examination of the child is not made, and definite disease 
may be overlooked. Although one will usually be correct in 
regarding the diet as the important factor in digestive disorders, 
it is well to remember that similar symptoms may be induced 
by organic disease, and to exclude any such possibility before 
proceeding to dietetic treatment. Digestive troubles are largely 
preventible by the use of proper foods, properly adminis- 
tered. Unless the symptoms come on acutely and, from the 
point of view of the mother, alarmingly, medical advice is seldom 
sought at the beginning. Hence, it often happens that a digestive 
disturbance which might have been easily cured at the onset is 
allowed to progress so far before advice is sought that prolonged 
and careful treatment is necessary. Certain domestic beliefs 
tend to develop gastric disorders in early life. One of these is 
that, if an infant is not gaining flesh or is wasting, more food 
should be given. Another is that if vomiting occurs, the food 
cannot be suitable, and another should be tried. The criterion 
of health in the domestic circle is not always in accordance with 
medical views, for it is summed up in one word fat. A fat 
baby in a neighbourhood is responsible for much trouble amongst 

803 



804 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the surrounding infants. Mothers look with envy on this fat 
child, and promptly proceed to stuff their own babies so as to 
produce a similar result. A mother will sometimes seek advice 
about her infant on the ground that it is wasting, which simply 
means that it is not as fat as some baby she has seen in the street 
or in a picture. The so-called wasting infant will often be found 
to be in the best of health. It may be stated generally that ignor- 
ance of the simple rules of infant feeding and neglect of them are 
the chief causes of gastric troubles. 

In the treatment of the various symptoms of indigestion, 
namely, vomiting, flatulence, colic, diarrhoea, and constipation, 
one will naturally attend first of all to the diet. The food at first 
should be such as to give rest temporarily to the disturbed diges- 
tive system, which is done by regulating the quantity and quality. 
Later, a normal diet is to be gradually led up to, as the disordered 
functions are restored. It is as well in the treatment to ignore 
any statements as to what the child can and cannot take. No 
one will deny that there is such a thing as idiosyncrasy as regards 
food in infancy, but cases of this nature are far fewer than is 
commonly believed, and certainly far fewer than stated by nurses. 
The stomachs of most infants and children are quite capable of 
dealing with ordinary food, and the common forms of indigestion 
are not due to hereditary tendencies or to acquired diseases, 
but to improper feeding. 

In the following pages it will not be necessary to split up the 
digestive disorders into a large variety of ailments. We shall 
consider the more common disturbances and the temporary 
dietetic measures which are called for before a full physiological 
diet can be used. Special foods may be ordered for special dis- 
orders, and it is necessary to limit their use to the period of disease. 
Many diets will be referred to which, while beneficial in illness, 
cannot be employed permanently without serious injury to the 
child. The physiological diets for infants and children in health 
have been given in a previous section and will not be treated of 
again in this connexion. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 805 

DISORDERS OF THE STOMACH 

The stomach is the source of much trouble in infancy, and 
the leading symptoms of disturbance are vomiting, flatulence, 
and pain. The belching of wind and the regurgitation of food 
are not necessary post-prandial sequelae during infancy, although 
many nurses hold a contrary opinion. Such errors as too rapid 
or too frequent feeding, which are apt to induce vomiting, must 
be corrected. The regular regurgitation of food after a meal 
implies that too much has been taken, and that the stomach has 
been over-filled. If this is allowed to become habitual, dilatation 
of the stomach will follow. The treatment should be to reduce 
the amount given at each meal. In cases of acute indigestion 
in infants, with pain and vomiting, all food should be stopped, 
and only sips of hot water or hot barley-water given until 
some hours after the vomiting has ceased. In all cases of vomit- 
ing in infants no food should be given until the stomach has 
been thoroughly rested for some hours. 

When vomiting occurs an hour or two after a meal, it is pro- 
bably due to incomplete digestion of the food which is refused 
exit by the pylorus. This is a condition which, if it becomes 
chronic, is apt to be accompanied by pain, flatulence, and wast- 
ing. The fault may lie in the nature of the food, or possibly in 
some idiosyncrasy in the infant's stomach. When these evidences 
of gastric irritation are present, a condition which is often called 
gastritis or gastric catarrh, it is essential to find out the cause. 

In the case of breast-fed infants this may entail an examination 
of : (1) the mother, (2) the breast milk, and (3) the infant. 

(1) It is but too common to find that a woman who does not 
habitually take alcohol will consume a couple of pints of beer 
or stout daily when she is nursing, in the belief that she thereby 
increases her nursing power. The alcohol thus taken may lead 
directly to indigestion and vomiting in the infant. The sub- 
stitution of cows' milk for alcoholic beverages in the mother's 
dietary will often enable the infant to digest the breast milk 
satisfactorily. If the mother is leading too strenuous a life, as 
represented in the upper classes by social gaieties, and in the 
lower by severe physical labour, the milk may be so altered as to 



806 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

become indigestible. The habits of the mother must be care- 
fully inquired into and regulated. Sometimes the anxiety of the 
mother over any disturbance in her infant may so react on the 
milk as to make it indigestible. It is well to reassure her, if 
possible, as to the nature of the disturbance, and to secure for 
her that tranquillity of mind which is necessary for successful 
nursing. One must also make careful inquiries as to whether 
any other food besides the breast is being given. Many mothers 
have lost faith in breast milk as a complete diet for infants, 
and think some " food " is necessary. The cause of gastric 
irritation in the healthy child of a healthy nursing mother will 
often prove to be some thick barley-water or patent food or other 
unsuitable nutriment given with the view of strengthening the 
infant. When this has been stopped the gastric irritation soon 
ceases. 

(2) An examination of the breast milk may show that it 
is too rich in proteins, in which case Dr. Eustace Smith recom- 
mends plenty of farinaceous and vegetable food for the mother, 
and a few ounces of barley-water for the infant before taking 
the breast. If the milk is found to be too rich in fat, a diminution 
in the amount of food taken by the mother is indicated. In 
somewhat rare instances the gastric trouble arises from an un- 
usually large size of the fat globules, a fault which cannot be 
remedied. Overfeeding on the part of the mother is another 
possible source of trouble in the infant. 

(3) An examination of the infant is always called for in order 
to find out whether there is any local or constitutional disease 
present which is the cause of the gastric symptoms. It is mani- 
festly useless to expect successful results from diet if organic 
disease is overlooked. Congenital pyloric stenosis may be taken 
as an example of local disease, and syphilis as an example of 
constitutional disease 

As regards bottle-fed infants one must inquire into the quantity 
and quality of the meals and the frequency of the feeding times. 
In many cases when these are properly regulated the stomach 
disturbance will cease. A common fault is to give the milk too 
concentrated. The use of improperly prepared barley-water 
is a frequent cause of gastric disturbance. In some cases whole 



807 

barley is used and boiled down into a thick mass which is added 
to the milk. In other cases ground barley is boiled and added 
to the milk. Both these methods are unsuited for infants under 
the age of nine months, who cannot digest a quantity of uncon- 
verted starch. The barley will not only remain undigested itself 
but will cause so much gastric disturbance as to interfere with 
the digestion of the milk. The use of tinned foods and " infants' 
foods " is also a common cause of gastric trouble, although as a 
rule they are more apt to induce intestinal indigestion. Refer- 
ence may also be made to the habit in certain classes of giving 
young infants a taste of what is going at the family table, some 
potato, or sausage, or a drop of beer. This method of feeding 
must be put a stop to. 

In other cases it will be found that neither a cessation of 
improper feeding nor a return to physiological feeding will relieve 
the gastric symptoms. Other measures will then be called for 
and will be discussed in connexion with chronic gastro-intestinal 
indigestion. 

In children over two years of age acute gastric irritation is 
usually traceable to some error in diet. This may take the form 
of a surfeit of raw apples, ice-cream, strawberries, pineapple, 
sweets, etc. one cannot tell what the vagaries of a boy's appetite 
may be. 

The stomach should be rested by a total abstinence from food 
for twelve hours, only sips of hot water being given. At the end 
of that time food may be resumed, in small quantities at first, 
and should consist of some weak chicken or mutton soup. 
An attack of acute gastric catarrh may sometimes be induced 
by a severe chill, as from a wetting or cold feet, or prolonged 
exposure. In such cases all appetite is lost, the digestion is 
much weakened, and any strong food leads to vomiting. In the 
acute stage it is not advisable to give much food, as it will simply 
increase the gastric disturbance. Peptonized milk, albumin 
water, and weak chicken or veal soup may be given in feeds of 
three or four ounces at a time. If food of this character is re- 
jected, champagne may be given in doses of half an ounce every 
four hours, and sips of hot water frequently, if desired. Rectal 
feeding is rarely called for, as the disturbance is only temporary. 



808 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

CHRONIC INTESTINAL INDIGESTION 

[Syn. Chronic gastrointestinal catarrh. Chronic indigestion. 
Marasmus.] 

We pass from the more acute disturbances of the stomach 
to those more chronic affections in which the functions of the 
stomach and bowels are interfered with. In many cases the 
correction of errors in diet will serve to restore the disordered 
functions. In others one has to employ for a time a special diet, 
suited to the individual case, in order first of all to rest the stomach 
and bowels and allow of the gradual recovery of the disordered 
secretions. 

I. In infancy. In the case of breast-fed infants chronic 
gastro-intestinal indigestion is not common, save from gross 
neglect of the rules of feeding. In the case of bottle-fed 
babies the condition is an extremely common one, and may call 
for much skill and patience in treatment. The great cause of 
chronic indigestion in babies is overfeeding. Whenever the 
infant cries the tendency is to assume that he is hungry and to 
give more food. The very temporary relief produced by this 
is soon followed by more discomfort, more crying, and more food. 
Even if the food is vomited, it is thought that the loss must be 
made up, and so more food is given. The marvel is not that the 
child does not thrive, but that he manages to survive. Sooner 
or later the overtaxed digestive powers break down. The infant 
wastes, becomes restless and peevish, and sleeps badly. Colicky 
pains, vomiting, flatulence, diarrhoea or constipation, and offen- 
sive motions with mucus or undigested milk are common accom- 
paniments. 

One must make a thorough inquiry into the history of the 
past feeding. The freshness of the milk, the cleanness of the 
feeding-bottles, the amount of diluent, cream, and sugar used, 
the temperature of the milk, the frequency of the meals, the time 
spent at a meal, the state of the appetite all these points must 
be inquired into so as to detect any fault which may have origin- 
ated or maintained the indigestion. One of the most prolific 
sources of intestinal trouble in infancy is the use of condensed 
milk and proprietary " infants' foods." These foods are easily 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 809 

prepared, do not quickly go bad, and " stay down " as a rule 
without much difficulty, so that by a large number of ignorant 
mothers they are preferred to fresh foods. The infants appar- 
ently thrive on them for a time, become fat and beautiful in the 
maternal eyes, and are duly admired by relatives. They are 
not, however, suited to an infant's digestive powers, and being 
largely composed of sugar and starch, they tend to ferment in 
the intestine, so that flatulent indigestion is a common result. 
As we are not yet able to adapt an infant's digestion to the ideas 
of artificial food manufacturers, the best plan for the present is 
to follow the guidance of nature as far as possible. The safest 
and the simplest method of treatment in these cases of patent 
food indigestion is to discard the food altogether and to return 
to physiological feeding. 

In the presence of chronic gastro-intestinal catarrh which 
does not yield to simple dietetic treatment, or which is in an 
advanced stage, some modifications in the ordinary feeding are 
called for. Further dilution of the milk may be tried. One 
part of milk may be mixed with two or three or four parts of lime- 
water, and given in small quantities every two hours by day and 
every four hours by night. In some cases it will be advisable 
to give nothing but lime-water during the night so as to rest the 
alimentary tract more thoroughly. As toleration is established, 
the strength of the milk mixture may be gradually increased. 
In other cases the citrate of soda method, as suggested by Wright 
and practised by Poynton, seems to be of service. It consists 
in the addition of citrate of soda to the milk, one or two grains 
to each ounce of milk in the mixture as diluted for use with plain 
or barley-water. The curds formed in the stomach are believed 
to be rendered more digestible, and the vital properties of the 
milk are not injured in any way. 

Special measures may be required to overcome the indigesti- 
bility of the proteins of cows' milk. For this purpose whey may 
be used. It is prepared by adding a drachm of liquid rennet 
to half a pint of warm milk. After the mixture has been 
thoroughly stirred it is allowed to stand until firmly coagulated. 
The curd is then broken up thoroughly and the whey is strained 
off through muslin or a strainer. When whey is kept any time, 



810 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

or is to be mixed with other food, it is advisable to heat it to 
160 F. in order to destroy the rennet ferment. One can begin 
with equal parts of whey and water, and give small quantities 
every two hours by day. Whey is usually well tolerated by the 
youngest infants, and one can gradually increase the strength 
of the food by giving it undiluted, then by the addition of some 
sugar or malt, and later of cream. The protein element in the 
diet may be increased by adding ten to fifteen drops of raw meat 
juice or white of egg to each feed or alternate feed. Another 
method of meeting the difficulty which these patients have in 
digesting the milk albumins is by the use of peptonized milk. 
This may be done by a pancreatic extract, or by peptonizing 
powders, or by peptogenic milk powders. The details of the 
method of preparation are supplied with each packet. The last 
named is the most suitable for young infants, as the resulting pro- 
duct resembles closely breast milk in its chemical composition. 
As a rule the peptonizing process should not be prolonged beyond 
half an hour, and whole milk without any extra cream should be 
used. Infants take and digest peptonized milk well, but its 
nutritive properties are certainly inferior to those of fresh milk. 
As the digestion improves the peptonizing time should be gradu- 
ally reduced from thirty to twenty and ten minutes. 

Sometimes the fatty element in the food is the cause of indi- 
gestion. This may arise either from an excessive amount of 
fatty material having been given, or from the special difficulty 
which the infant has in digesting fat. In the former case a 
reduction in the amount of fat in the diet will probably effect a 
cure. The symptoms associated with fat indigestion are vomit- 
ing, toxaemia, and possibly convulsions. An excess of fat may 
be found in the stools, which are offensive, white or grey in colour, 
and contain small yellowish masses which are often mistaken for 
curds. These masses may be distinguished from curds by the 
facts that they are soluble in ether and burn readily with an 
odour of butter (Holt). The fat of cows' milk may be the source 
of trouble, and Finley Bell suggests in such cases the use of goats' 
milk, in which the fat more closely resembles that of breast milk. 
Stern believes that the high percentage of volatile fatty acids in 
cows' milk as compared to human milk is the cause of fat indi- 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 811 

gestion. He recommends the addition of yolk of egg to skimmed 
milk suitably modified. Yolk fat yields very little fatty acid, 
and the large amount of lecithin which it contains acts as a stimu- 
lant of the whole nervous system. An average yolk contains 
about six grammes (90 grains) of fat, so that roughly speaking, 
an ounce of (20 per cent) cream corresponds to one yolk as re- 
gards fatty content. The yolk should be perfectly fresh and 
given raw. 

Cases of fat indigestion may also be treated by means of 
buttermilk, which is very similar in composition to skimmed 
milk. It differs in the markedly acid reaction, due to the lactic 
acid fermentation, and in the casein formed in the stomach, which 
is casein lactate instead of calcium casein. Casein lactate is not 
acted on by rennin and consequently does not form dense curds 
in the stomach. Lactic acid is believed to check the growth of 
certain putrefactive and pathogenic bacteria in the gastro-intes. 
tinal tract, and to aid in the peptonization of the milk. These 
combined advantages have led to the successful employment of 
buttermilk in cases of chronic indigestion. Buttermilk may be 
obtained in many country places fresh from the churn, and this 
is probably the most efficient form in which it can be given. In 
towns it is sold by many of the large dairy companies, or it may 
be artificially prepared at home by the use of " lacto-bacilline." 
Lacto-bacilline is fluid milk which contains the bacillus acidi 
lactici. It is used in the following way to prepare " lactated 
milk " (Batten). Fresh milk is boiled, and then cooled down 
in a sterilized stoppered bottle to 96 F. One tube (about 
3 drachms) of lacto-bacilline is added to 11 oz. of milk. 
The milk is kept in a water bath at a temperature of 96 F. for 
seven hours, during which time it becomes sour, and a slight clot 
is formed. It is next cooled on ice for twelve hours, at the end 
of which time it has become a creamy fluid and is ready for use. 
Batten found that children who could not take any other form of 
milk could retain and digest lactated milk. When fat indigestion 
is the source of trouble one can use either fresh buttermilk or the 
lactated form made from skimmed milk. In both cases the 
buttermilk is only a temporary measure, and fat in some form 
must be added to the diet later on. The addition also of large 



812 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

quantities of lactic acid is believed to affect injuriously the 
chemical metabolism of the system, if this method of feeding is 
unduly prolonged. Separated milk, i.e. milk with all the cream 
removed, may also be employed as a temporary measure in 
cases of fat indigestion. 

One or other of the above measures will usually prove effec- 
tive, but in exceptionally difficult cases of chronic indigestion 
one may employ condensed or dried milk. A good brand of 
sweetened condensed milk, with all the original cream present, 
should be obtained. It must be given well diluted, one tea- 
spoonful of the milk to 4 or 6 oz. of water to begin with, 
according to the age and state of the infant. The strength 
is to be gradually increased as toleration is established. Again 
one of the dried milks, such as plasmon, or somatose, or 
sanatogen may prove useful. The dilution, to begin with, 
should be one teaspoonful of the powder to 6 oz. of water. 
Why it is that milk in these forms should apparently be better 
tolerated than fresh preparations is difficult to explain, but 
it is probably due to some change in the proteins which are 
rendered more digestible. In the case of infants under six months 
starchy foods are not to be recommended for digestive troubles. 
After that age they may sometimes be found useful, possibly from 
their mechanical action in reducing the size of the curds. The 
flour of barley or oatmeal or wheat may be used. A tablespoonful 
of one of these is to be boiled in a pint of water for an hour. Of 
this half to one ounce may be mixed with an ordinary feed of 
milk and water. At this age also one may sometimes aid the 
digestion of the milk by adding a small quantity of one of the 
converted starch preparations, such as Mellin's food, care being 
taken that not more than a half to one teaspoonful be given as 
a meal. 

These are some of the more common dietetic methods now 
employed for meeting the digestive difficulties of infancy. At 
the outset one must not only decide on the food, but proceed 
to give it a fair trial. The effect will not be seen all at once, and 
if the food is varied every few days there will probably be no 
improvement. At least a week or ten days are required to test 
the effect. At the same time it is often quite a good plan to 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 813 

combine two of the methods, giving for instance a diet of pep- 
tonized milk by day and of whey by night. Both of these prepara- 
tions are for the same purpose, namely, to reduce the amount 
of protein digestion in the stomach, and one may be able to tell 
from the symptoms which is most effective and to act accordingly. 
A little variety in the diet may also aid the stomach and bowels 
in recovering their tone. 

Perhaps more important than the food is the degree of 
dilution. The digestive powers are weakened and inactive, 
and only the weakest foods will be tolerated. Hence the 
most excellent foods may prove useless simply because they 
are too strong. At the same time the stomach must not be 
flooded by large quantities of fluid food. Small amounts 
frequently repeated are better than larger quantities less often. 
It is best to begin with 1-2 oz. every hour, or 2-3 oz. 
every two hours. 

One may sometimes be at a loss to know whether the food 
is really agreeing with the infant. Favourable signs are a 
cessation of the whining and restlessness, the recurrence 
of smiling, and longer and quieter periods of sleep. The 
subsidence of the active gastro-intestinal symptoms, flatulence, 
colic, etc., and an improvement in the quality of the stools are 
favourable indications. A gain in weight is not to be looked 
for at once, as the diet in the early stage is one to rest the ali- 
mentary tract, not to fatten the child. It is not until all active 
signs have subsided and a more nourishing food has been adopted 
that the nutrition of the infant will improve. In the early stages 
also the amount of fat must be reduced to a minimum, owing to 
its indigestibility. In the convalescent stage, on the other hand, 
cream and cod-liver oil are of the greatest benefit in building up 
the patient. 

The duration of the special feeding will depend on the 
severity and length of the illness. It must always be kept 
in mind that however useful as temporary measures, these 
methods of feeding should not be prolonged further than is 
necessary, because dangers lurk in the way. As soon as possible 
the infant should return to a diet of fresh cows' milk and other 
materials suitable to its age, as already described. The return 



814 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

to normal diet must be made gradually, by introducing one or 
two feeds of fresh milk in the course of the day. 

The extreme form of malnutrition from gastro-intestinal 
catarrh is known as marasmus. Some infants are born with 
very low vitality and with an alimentary tract which is appar- 
ently incapable of dealing with any form of food, but such cases 
are rare. In the great majority of marasmic patients the under- 
lying cause is improper food and feeding. The vital powers of 
the infant may be at the lowest before advice is sought, and a 
diagnosis of tabes mesenterica is often erroneously made. 
The methods of feeding, as already described, may fail. In such 
cases a wet nurse is the best line of treatment. If the infant is 
too weak to take the breast, the milk may be drawn off and given 
with a spoon. Failing to obtain a wet nurse one has to depend 
for a time on brandy and meat juice. A drachm each of brandy 
and fresh meat juice may be mixed with 6 oz. of water. Of 
this mixture 1 oz. may be given every hour for an infant 
of three months, eighteen feeds being given in the twenty-four 
hours. In place of the meat juice one may use weak chicken or 
veal soup. After a few days' trial of this some whey or pep- 
tonized milk may be given occasionally, and an attempt made 
to establish toleration of milk food. Another mixture which 
may be tried in these cases is composed of white of egg, 
2 drachms, brandy and malt extract, of each 1 drachm, and 
water to 6 oz. This may be given in the same quantities 
as the meat juice mixture. White-wine whey may also prove 
serviceable in these cases, as used by Myers and Still. Ten 
ounces of milk are brought to the boil and 2| oz. of cooking 
sherry are added. The mixture is again boiled, removed 
from the fire, and allowed to stand for three minutes. 
The curd is then strained off and the whey is ready for use. 
Analysis of this whey shows the following composition : protein 
(almost entirely lactalbumin) 0-45 per cent ; fat, 0-95 per cent, 
and sugar, 5-00 per cent. The amount of alcohol in 1 oz. 
corresponds to that in twenty-five drops of brandy. Myers and 
Still give one tablespoonful of the whey every half -hour or three- 
quarters of an hour to an infant of six weeks, and gradually 
alter the amount and times until 2 oz. are taken every two 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 815 

hours. The maximum at a feed is 2J oz. The acidity 
(tartaric and acetic acids), the nature of the protein, the 
carminative ethers of the sherry, and the stimulating effect of 
the alcohol render this whey suited to the weak digestion and 
exhausted vital powers of a marasmic infant. It should not be 
given as the sole food for more than a week or ten days. The 
effect of the alcohol in the mixture must be carefully watched, 
as it is intended to act as a stimulant and not as an intoxicant. 
When, as often happens, the mucous membrane of the alimentary 
tract has become atrophied and functionless, the results of treat- 
ment are very disappointing. 

II. After infancy. In the case of chronic gastro-intestinal 
indigestion in children beyond the age of infancy, one must also 
recognize that probably the same factors are at work, namely, 
overfeeding and improper food. The course of events is often as 
follows : A child with a healthy appetite is allowed too full a 
diet, with an excess of farinaceous foods and sugar. This excess 
of carbo-hydrate material is often given in such fluid form that 
the teeth are not used, the food is swallowed rapidly, and goes 
down so easily that much larger quantities are consumed than if 
thorough mastication had been necessary. By and by symptoms 
of intestinal indigestion appear. The child looks pale, and begins 
to lose flesh. A course of feeding-up is begun, and beef juices, 
patent foods, cream, etc., are added to the already over-full 
dietary. Finally there comes a complete breakdown of the entire 
digestive system. The course of treatment to be adopted is to 
give the overtaxed intestine as much rest as possible. Peptonized 
milk, or whey, and freshly-made mutton, veal or chicken soup are 
to be given in small quantities every few hours. A word of 
warning must be given to the cook that she is not to make the 
soup as " strong " as possible, but of the strength of ordinary 
dinner soup. When the intestinal rest has led to the recovery of 
appetite, solids may be begun in the form of fish, chicken, or 
mutton, plainly cooked, with a little bread crumb or bread sauce. 
After toleration for these has been established, some carbo-hydrates 
may be added to the dietary, toast, milk pudding, and plain 
biscuit. Last of all the stage of fatty foods is reached butter, 
yolk of eggs, cream, and cod-liver oil and the building-up process 



816 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

will then go on rapidly. The length of time taken to secure com- 
plete recovery will depend on the time during which the improper 
feeding has lasted. 

To prevent a recurrence of the condition one must arrange 
for the future a dietary which contains (1) a sufficient amount 
of hard food which requires chewing, and (2) a limited amount 
of farinaceous foods and sugar. For the former purpose beef 
or mutton or chicken should not be given to children in a 
minced or pounded form, but plainly cooked. Toast, rusks, 
biscuits, raw apples entail an amount of chewing which is good 
for the digestion and the teeth. Further, the child's appetite 
will be satisfied more readily after chewing food thoroughly, and 
there will not be the same tendency to swallow down large 
quantities of food as in the case of fluid milk puddings. When a 
child has had a sufficient amount at a meal and still complains of 
hunger, a raw apple or a hard biscuit will be better than another 
helping of sweet pudding. The excessive use of carbo-hydrates 
is very marked in the present day. Many children are allowed 
to consume far too much bread and butter and sweets. These 
must be strictly limited. Finally, the coaxing of a child to eat 
more food must be absolutely forbidden. No child should ever 
be coaxed to eat, and much harm is often done by this line of 
treatment on the part of over-anxious parents and nurses. 



FOOD FEVER 

This is a disorder which has been specially described by Dr. 
Eustace Smith as consisting of "an attack of fever which comes 
on suddenly, is accompanied by signs, more or less pronounced, of 
digestive disturbance, lasts in its acute form for several days, 
and may linger on in a modified degree for some weeks." The 
subjects of this affection, according to Dr. Smith, are usually 
children of either sex between the ages of three and twelve years, 
of a neurotic temperament, and liable to chills and acute gastric 
catarrh. These accompanying conditions may be ignored here, 
as apparently the important element both in the preventive and 
the curative treatment lies in the diet. An attack begins with 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 817 

headache and is frequently characterized by vomiting or diarrhoea, 
always by some kind of digestive upset. The child shows a dis- 
inclination for play or exertion of any kind ; the temperature is 
raised to 101, or it may be much higher ; the face is dull and 
pasty in appearance, and the tongue is dirty. Examination 
shows extension of the stomach resonance upwards, enlargement 
of the liver, and thick, very acid, or high-coloured urine. The 
children, as a rule, make no complaint of bodily discomfort, but 
are fretful and irritable in the day, and at night lie awake or sleep 
badly, groaning and tossing from side to side. Often they do not 
care about their food, and sometimes it is most difficult to make 
them eat anything at all. 

Although the attack may be started primarily by acute gastric 
catarrh, Dr. Eustace Smith believes that the fever is maintained 
by reabsorption from the bowel of injurious products of decom- 
position. The appearance of the stools shows that fermentation 
has been taking place, and it is a natural inference that some of the 
products of this fermentation must be absorbed into the blood. 
Dr. H. Davy also concludes that the fever is due to an auto- 
intoxication from the products of fermentation of particular 
mixtures of starchy foods. 

All are agreed that the diet is of the greatest importance, 
and the following are the lines of dietetic treatment recommended 
by Dr. Eustace Smith. Articles of food which are capable of 
undergoing an unwholesome fermentation in the bowels must be 
forbidden. Starches and sweets should be given with caution, 
and a combination of starch with milk, such as is found in the 
ordinary milk pudding of the nursery, rice, sago, tapioca, etc., 
should be strictly forbidden. Milk itself, except in very limited 
quantity, is harmful, because of its tendency to ferment, and in 
persistent cases milk should be excluded entirely from the diet. 
Acids, such as are found in baked apples, grapes, oranges, and 
lemonade, must be condemned, as they tend to promote fermen- 
tation. " The proper diet for these children consists of mutton, 
poultry, white fish, well-boiled green vegetables, and eggs. They 
may have plenty of butter, with stale bread, toast, and rusks. 
The salted foods are good, such as bacon, ham, and tongue ; 
bloaters also and sardines, and the pastes made of anchovy, 

52 



818 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

bloater, and shrimp may be allowed." Although these foods are 
not all in common use in the nursery, Dr. Smith finds that they 
are harmless, and that the pastes make good substitutes for 
marmalade and jam. 

It is plain that such a diet cannot be continued permanently 
nor does it appear necessary that it should. Dr. H. Davy has 
found that after a time farinaceous and other starchy foods may be 
given in small amounts and gradually increased as toleration is 
established. He is inclined to trace the attacks of fever to the 
fact that the pancreatic digestion is not proportionate to the age 
of the child. As the child grows older the power of his pancreatic 
digestion increases, and so the cause of the fever gradually ceases. 
The special dietary required may be carried on for six or twelve 
months until the pancreatic secretion is properly established. 



ACroOSIS OR ACID INTOXICATION 

The condition of acidosis or acid intoxication may be con- 
sidered here, first because it is believed by many to be the result 
of faulty metabolism associated with the diet, and secondly, 
because the symptoms are largely concerned with disturbance 
of the gastro-intestinal tract. Clinically, the form of toxaemia 
under consideration is recognized from the smell of acetone in 
the breath, from the presence of acetone in the urine and in 
the vomit, and in severe cases from the presence of diacetic 
acid in the urine. The symptoms of poisoning may be mild 
or severe, and probably many mild attacks are recovered from 
without the condition being recognized. These milder attacks 
are frequently put down to " biliousness," or constipation, or 
acute gastric catarrh. In severe cases the leading symptoms 
are sudden and uncontrollable vomiting, persisting for some 
hours or days, and accompanied by constant nausea, retching, 
and great prostration. One form of acidosis in childhood is of 
unknown origin, and is variously described as " periodic vomit- 
ing," " cyclic vomiting," or " recurrent vomiting." Another 
occurs after the administration of an anaesthetic. We shall 
consider only the former condition here. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 819 

The subject of the dietetic treatment, preventive and cura- 
tive, of these attacks of periodic vomiting is a very difficult 
one, owing to our ignorance of the pathology of the affection. 
This is shown by the number of different views which have been 
brought forward. At one time the acids in the system were 
ascribed to the excessive breaking down and imperfect meta- 
bolism of proteins. More recently it has been held that the 
imperfect oxidation of fat in the system is the cause of acidosis. 
This faulty metabolism may affect both the fat stored in the 
tissues and that taken in the food. As the carbo-hydrates con- 
tain a large amount of oxygen, they should be useful in acidosis 
from faulty metabolism of fats. This is what actually happens 
in the acidosis of diabetes, which can be checked by giving 
carbo-hydrates. On the other hand, Dr. Eustace Smith believes 
that many cases of periodic vomiting are due to excess of carbo- 
hydrates, and the accompanying intestinal fermentation. Dr. 
Holt also recommends that, in the intervals between attacks, 
all sugar and sweets should be excluded from the diet, and that 
the amount of starchy food should be carefully limited. Thus 
the condition of acidosis has been ascribed by different writers 
to (1) an excess of proteins, (2) an excess of carbo-hydrates, and 
(3) an excess of fats in the diet. The excess, however, is not 
an absolute one, but only relative to the power of the individual 
to deal with these substances. 

Brackett, Stone, and Low say that the formation of acetone 
is due to faulty metabolism with the formation of free fatty 
acids, and is largely dependent on a reduction of the carbo- 
hydrates and proteins in the diet, and general subnutrition. 
It may be the body-fat or the food-fat which is the source of the 
acetone, but the immediate cause is the disturbance of the 
metabolism. J. A. Kelly says there is some toxaemia present, 
but whether it is due to the presence of volatile fatty acids, 
to the rapid destruction of protein matter, or to the rapid elimina- 
tion of the alkalies it is impossible to say. Langdon Brown 
says that in acidosis there is a relative starvation of the tissues, 
and that, broadly speaking, they are being starved of carbo- 
hydrates. As a result of this there is excessive disintegration 
of the fatty tissues in the body. The further production of 



820 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

these acid bodies should be prevented as far as possible by 
cutting off fat in the diet, and by adding carbo-hydrates. 

From the diversity of the views which have been referred 
to, it is plain that the time has not yet come for any definite or 
dogmatic statement as to what the diet ought to be in a case 
of periodic vomiting. During an acute attack the question of 
diet hardly arises, because the vomiting is so severe that all 
appetite is lost, and no food can be retained. At this stage 
thirst is the chief complaint, and the patient may be given 
frequent sips of hot or cold water, soda-water, or barley-water. 
Even plain fluids are usually quickly vomited, but there is a 
certain relief supplied to the patient. If after twenty-four 
hours the patient is still unable to retain any food by the mouth, 
nutrient enemata composed of peptonized milk (1 oz.), glucose 
(half an ounce of a 10 per cent solution) and brandy (half a 
drachm) may be given every four hours. As soon as food can 
be retained in the stomach it seems advisable to avoid all fatty 
material, and to give only digestible proteins and carbo-hydrates. 
Plasmon, Allenbury's food, and peptonized milk may be given 
at first, and later one may go on to oatmeal-gruel or porridge, 
bread, farinaceous puddings, and sugar. As a matter of clinical 
experience it may be stated that there is no gradual return of 
the appetite in typical cases of periodic vomiting, but the attack 
ceases suddenly, and the patient after sleeping wakes up raven- 
ous and demands food. Further, whatever food is given will 
be eaten and retained and digested. It is none the less advisable 
to maintain the above diet for a few days, and thus aid the 
elimination of the acids from the system. 

After an attack has subsided, and in the intervals between 
attacks the diet usually recommended is one containing an 
average amount of proteins and carbo-hydrates, and a small 
amount of fats. All the foods should be simple and digestible, 
and should be given in such amount as not to overtax the diges- 
tive organs. This line of treatment cannot be said to be very 
efficacious in curing the affection. The fact that in many cases 
the attacks are slight and pass off after a few days' tow diet, or, 
if more severe, recur only once in six or twelve months, render 
any exact conclusions as to the effects of diet very difficult. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 821 

The present writer has had the opportunity of watching closely 
two cases in children aged seven and twelve years. In them 
the attacks were very severe and very frequent. The patients 
were both extremely emaciated and extremely neurotic. Various 
diets were tried, including those of an almost purely protein 
character, and those of carbo-hydrates only. Again, various 
articles were omitted from the diet for a time, such as milk, 
then eggs, then meat, etc. No benefit from these various dietetic 
changes could be observed. When the patients were put on 
an ordinary full hospital diet they seemed to do just as well as 
on a restricted one, and further, they gained some flesh. It 
was then thought that the latter advantage might be still further 
increased by the Weir-Mitchell system of overfeeding, massage, 
rest and isolation. The following was the diet taken during a 
period of six weeks. 

FOOD IN TWENTY-FOUB HOURS (patient 12 years old). 

5 a. in Cocoa and milk, ad lib. ; bread and dripping. 

7 a.m Cream 5 ; milk, 5"j 5 water, Jj. 

9 a.m Milk, 5 V ; malt extract 3i > water, Jij bread 

and dripping. 

11 a.m Cream, J ; milk, Jiij ; water, Jj. 

1 p.m Meat ; pudding, with cream, 5j ; bread and 

dripping. 

3 p.m Milk, 5 V ; malt extract, 3i 5 water, Jij. 

5 p.m Cocoa and milk ; one egg ; bread and dripping. 

7 p.m Cream, 5J 5 milk, 5* v ; water, Jj. 

9 p.m Raw meat juice, 5J ; water, 5j ; bread and jam. 

1 a.m Raw meat juice, 5j ; water, 5J- 

During this course of treatment the patient increased in weight 
from 43 Ib. to 56 lb., a gain of 12 Ib. There were no attacks 
of vomiting, and she looked the picture of health. This was 
the longest interval she had had of freedom from vomit- 
ing attacks for some years. The patient was not cured, for 
on her return to the home surroundings the vomiting re- 
turned, and the wasting again set in rapidly. The above experi- 
ence in two cases is rather against the view that any special 
food element (protein, carbo-hydrate, or fat) is the cause of the 
trouble, and supports the view, held by many, that the affection 
is really to be classed as a neurosis, comparable to migraine. 
That metabolism is at fault may be admitted, and more especi- 



822 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

ally the action of the liver, but it would appear, in some cases 
at least, to be dependent primarily on a disturbance of the 
central nervous system. One may do harm rather than good 
by a spare diet, or by a non-nutritive diet, or by any diet based 
purely on the chemical problems of this affection. If a chronic 
case fails to improve under a rigid and limited diet, it may be 
advisable to try the effects of a full diet as outlined above. 

DIARRHOEA 

Diarrhoea is one of the commonest signs of intestinal dis- 
turbance in infancy and childhood. A large number of cases 
will be found to be associated with improper feeding. Diarrhoea 
may be one of the chief symptoms of chronic intestinal indi- 
gestion, which has already been considered. In infants over- 
feeding, too frequent feeding, and improper food will often 
cause diarrhoea, with or without the addition of gastric symp- 
toms, vomiting, etc. 

The preventive treatment consists in the use of proper food 
for infants and children. Of special importance is the freshness 
of the food, milk, fruit, etc., for the most severe cases are those 
in which some decomposition has taken place in the food. This 
is the cause of the most fatal form of diarrhoea in early life, 
namely, the acute summer diarrhoea of infants. It is inad- 
visable in the case of breast-fed babies to wean during the hot 
season, as diarrhoea is very easily induced by a change of diet 
at this time. Whatever views one may hold as to the relative 
advantages of boiled and unboiled cows' milk, it may be safely 
asserted that in hot weather all cows' milk for children's use 
should be boiled for two or three minutes and then kept on ice 
in a closed or covered vessel. The greatest cleanliness should 
be observed in connexion with the feeding-bottles, and no 
" dummy " soothers should be allowed in the infant's mouth. 
The tendency to give young infants some fruit, which is so 
common amongst nurses during the hot season, should be severely 
discouraged as being distinctly dangerous. In older children 
the indiscriminate use of sweets and sweet cakes is responsible 
for many cases of diarrhoea. While fruit is good for them, 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 823 

care must be taken to see that it is ripe, as both unripe and too 
ripe fruit is a fertile source of diarrhoea. 

The treatment of slight attacks of diarrhoea in breast-fed 
babies consists in diminishing the frequency of the feeding 
times, or the amount given at each meal. Sometimes, although 
rarely, the maternal milk does not suit the child, and chronic 
diarrhoea results. If one cannot correct the breast milk by 
treating the mother, it may be necessary to put the child on 
some other food. In the case of bottle-fed babies diarrhoea is 
often due to an excessive amount of starchy material in the diet. 
One must therefore remove this source of trouble, which usually 
takes the form of some patent food, and put the child on to a 
proper dietary. A few days of low feeding and plenty of water 
to drink will cure these mild or chronic cases of diarrhoea in 
infants. The same applies to the case of older children where 
the dietetic element will be found at fault. 

The most severe form of diarrhoea in early life is the acute 
summer diarrhoea of infants. It is essentially a disease of bottle- 
fed babies, or of those who are receiving some food in addition 
to the breast milk. The origin of the disease is traceable to 
certain organisms in the food, chiefly in cows' milk, which multiply 
and cause intense irritation in the stomach and intestines. The 
exact method by which the milk is contaminated is unknown, 
but there is much evidence in support of the view that flies are 
the chief means by which the milk is infected. In many houses 
milk, whether fresh or tinned, is open to this source of contami- 
nation owing to its being left in an exposed condition, and 
wherever milk is there flies will gather. 

During the summer printed papers containing the following 
instructions are given to all the mothers attending the Paddington 
Green Children's Hospital. 

" In hot weather milk quickly turns sour or becomes tainted 
by dust, dirt, and flies, and may easily bring on diarrhoea unless 
the following precautions are taken : 

" Buy the milk twice a day not once only and get the 
best cows' milk you can, as cheap milk is always dangerous. 

u Boil it at once for one or two minutes. 



824 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

" Then place it in a covered vessel in a basin of cold water 
and keep cool. The jnilk must be covered over to prevent dust 
and flies from reaching it. 

" Always taste the milk, in a spoon, before putting it in the 
bottle, to see that it has not turned sour. Do not put the teat 
in your own mouth at all. 

" Do not keep any milk left in the bottle for the infant's 
next meal. Use it for yourself or the' rest of the family. 

" The bottle should be boat-shaped with an india-rubber 
teat, but wo long rubber tube. 

" The bottle should be scalded out after use, and cleaned 
with a bottle brush, which should be boiled immediately before 
using. 

" After each feed the nipple should be turned inside out 
and washed, and kept with the bottle in cold water. 

" Good milk is often spoiled by dirty bottles. 

" When fresh cows' milk cannot be obtained, or the milk 
has turned sour, use the best sweetened condensed milk. 

" Get small tins, as after the tin is opened the milk will soon 
go bad. 

" Cover an opened tin with clean muslin or butter cloth to 
protect it from dust and flies, and keep in a cool place. 

" In any case of sudden diarrhoea or vomiting stop the milk 
at once, and give only plain water which has been boiled, or 
barley-water. 

" In hot weather do not keep bones, stale vegetables or 
fruit, and other rubbish for the dustbin in the room or house. 
Rubbish breeds flies, and flies poison the food they settle on." 

In acute summer diarrhoea milk in any form must be 
stopped at once. It is especially dangerous in this disease, 
because it usually conveys the poison which is the starting-point 
of an attack, and is a good medium for the further growth of 
the organisms in the alimentary tract. We have therefore 
to find some temporary substitute during the time that 
attention is being devoted to thoroughly clearing out the gastro- 
intestinal tract. In very acute cases the best plan is to stop 
all food entirely and to give only boiled water or barley-water 






DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 825 

or rice-water for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. This usually 
meets with a strong protest in the domestic circle on the ground 
that the infant will be starved to death. The anxious mother 
may be assured that the infant is incapable of digesting or absorb- 
ing any food, and her attention may be directed to the motions, 
where the milk given has appeared quite undigested. As the 
thirst is usually very great, water should be administered fre- 
quently, every hour or two hours, but in small quantities as vomit- 
ing is so easily induced. If the vomiting is very severe it may 
be necessary to give only one or two teaspoonfuls of water at inter- 
vals of fifteen or twenty minutes. The great loss of fluid pro- 
duced by the diarrhoea often leads to a condition of collapse, of 
shrivelling up of the tissues, and of cardiac weakness. Fluids 
cannot well be administered per rectum to infants, but the sub- 
cutaneous injection of normal saline fluid (1 drachm of common 
salt in a pint of boiled water) will prove beneficial. A Southey's or 
other small trocar may be used, and the hot sterile fluid should 
be allowed to flow by gravitation into the loose tissues of the 
axilla or abdominal wall. From 6-8 oz. may be injected at a 
time, and the fluid should be allowed to enter slowly, so as to 
avoid the risks of sloughing or haemorrhage. The tissues will 
absorb the fluid rapidly, and the restorative effect on the patient 
is often marvellous. 

A little brandy is probably beneficial as a stimulant if 
given well diluted a teaspoonful in half a pint of water during 
the day, and the same amount during the night. 

At the end of thirty-six or forty-eight hours, or when sufficient 
time has been allowed for the thorough emptying of the bowels 
by medicine, a beginning should be made with food in the shape 
of albumin water, or weak veal, mutton or chicken soup. Here 
the rule must be to proceed very slowly and gradually, watching 
the effect. Albumin water may be made at first of the strength 
of half an ounce of the white of egg to half a pint of water or 
barley-water, and this may be rendered more palatable by the 
addition of 2 drachms of extract of malt. Similarly an ounce 
of soup may be diluted with 5 oz. of water. As regards the 
feeding the rule should be to feed every two hours by day and 
not oftener than every four hours by night, and only to give small 



826 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

quantities at first say 1 or 2 oz. If the thirst is great, no 
harm is done by giving the infant water freely between the 
feeds. This modified diet may be carried on for one or two 
days, until the diarrhoea is somewhat lessened, and the motions 
are not of a purely mucous character. If the albumin water 
is found suitable there is no occasion to give the soup, but in 
some cases the soup seems better tolerated. 

The third stage is reached when we commence tentatively 
a return to milk food. A trial of milk in one or other form 
should be made by alternating it with the albumin water. Of the 
various forms in which milk may be used at this time the follow- 
ing represents a scale of digestibility : (1) peptogenized milk (with- 
out added cream), (2) whey, (3) condensed milk (diluted with 
twenty-four parts water), (4) equal parts of cows' milk, lime- 
water, and barley-water. Citrated milk (gr. 1 of citrate of soda 
to each ounce of milk) may also be found suitable. It is not 
necessary to take every infant through these four stages, but in 
one patient one form of milk will be found to agree best, and in 
another patient some other form. If the milk provokes a recur- 
rence of vomiting or diarrhoea, it must be at once stopped. 
Toleration will not be readily established and in no case must 
an attempt be made to feed up the patient rapidly. The chief 
points about the dietetic treatment are : (1) to give no food 
until the stomach can retain and digest it, (2) to begin with 
very weak foods, and very small meals, and (3) to let the patient 
have as much water as he can retain, so as to help in washing 
out the bowels. 



CONSTIPATION 

Constipation is a common trouble in infants, both breast- 
fed and bottle-fed. Without being immediately injurious to 
the child's health, it is the source of much discomfort, and may 
induce a permanent weakening of the bowel and of the digestive 
functions. The most common cause of constipation is some 
fault in the quality or quantity of the food, and as a first step 
in the treatment the dietetic habits must be carefully inquired 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN S27 

into and regulated. In the case of breast-fed babies this will 
also include an investigation into the mother's habits and dietary. 
Very often in the case of young infants the drinking of some 
plain water or barley-water between feeds may serve to relieve 
constipation. In the case of bottle-fed babies a little extra 
fat may be added to the diet in the shape of a teaspoonful of 
cream or olive oil thrice daily, which has a lubricant action on 
the bowel contents. In other cases some additional sugar in 
the shape of malt extract will prove effective. The juice of 
grapes or oranges, a tablespoonful diluted with water, and given 
in divided doses, will often relieve constipation. After the 
age of six months some farinaceous food in the shape of oat- 
meal or barley gruel may have a beneficial stimulating effect 
on the bowel wall. 

In older children the prolongation of a soft, pappy diet 
after the teeth have been cut, and the use of too refined foods, 
are apt to be followed by constipation. Intestinal peristalsis 
is weakened when there is no solid residue in the bowel to call 
it into action. The fluid, non-irritating contents of the small 
intestine fail to stimulate the colon, and accumulate there as 
soft masses, which tend in time to become inspissated. Hence 
it will be found useful in many cases of constipation to order 
foods which contain some irritating particles, such as porridge, 
whole-meal bread, figs, etc., or which contain a considerable 
amount of indigestible residue, such as salads, green vegetables, 
tomatoes, and raw apples. Care must be taken that these 
substances, vegetables and fruits, are not given in excess, as 
the digestion may be impaired in the attempt to relieve con- 
stipation. Many growing children are constipated because 
they do not drink enough water. They never complain of 
thirst and so no fluid is given them save at meal times. Fre- 
quently at meals very little fluid is taken. In such cases from 
a pint to a pint and a half of water should be drunk daily between 
meals, commencing with a cupful of cold water on rising. Fresh 
fruits such as oranges and grapes may be regarded as fluids, 
and the organic acids in them lend an additional aperient action. 
Fats and oils have a lubricating effect in the intestine, and 
prevent the inspissation of faeces, so that plenty of beef or mutton 



828 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

fat, salad oil, and nuts may relieve constipation, especially 
when the motions are hard and dry. 



ABDOMINAL TUBERCULOSIS 

There are three chief forms in which abdominal tuberculosis 
is manifested in early life. First, there may be tuberculous 
enteritis, an ulcerative form of inflammation affecting chiefly 
the lower part of the small intestine, the caecum and the colon ; 
secondly, there may be tuberculous mesenteric glands, a con- 
dition which is known clinically as tabes mesenterica ; and thirdly, 
there may be tuberculous peritonitis. It is possible that any 
one of these types may occur alone, but as an isolated condition 
tuberculous enteritis or tabes mesenterica is distinctly rare in 
childhood. The commonest form met with clinically is tuber- 
culous peritonitis. At the same time, while tuberculous peri- 
tonitis overshadows the others by its frequency and by the 
prominence of its symptoms, it is to be viewed as a result of 
tuberculous infection of the bowel. In some cases it may be 
that infection comes from the thoracic glands along the lym- 
phatic channels, or from other tuberculous deposits via the 
blood stream, but such are not examples of abdominal tuber- 
culosis, pure and simple. 

Abdominal tuberculosis as a primary disease is not often 
met with during the first two years of life. Tabes mesenterica 
is not a common disease of infancy. " Consumption of the 
bowels," which is such a popular diagnosis, is most frequently 
a misnomer for chronic intestinal indigestion and diarrhoea 
the results of improper food and overfeeding. At the same 
time, from the age of six months one may meet with typical 
and severe cases of abdominal tuberculosis. The majority of 
the cases occur after the age of two years. The symptoms of 
tuberculous enteritis may be very slight, or there may be severe 
and persistent diarrhoea, with the passage of blood and mucus, 
and with a considerable degree of irregular pyrexia. The symp- 
toms of tabes mesenterica may be wasting only, and unless 
one can make out definitely a mass of enlarged glands about 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 829 

the mesentery, the diagnosis must remain uncertain. Tuber- 
culous peritonitis, on the other hand, is usually a well marked 
affection, and as it is usually accompanied by the other two 
conditions, we shall in the following remarks discuss abdominal 
tuberculosis under the name of tuberculous peritonitis. 

The preventive treatment of tuberculous peritonitis consists 
in the use of wholesome fresh food as the diet, and of the main- 
tenance of a healthy condition in the alimentary canal. The 
dread of tubercle-laden cows' milk has affected the profession 
and the public for some years, and elaborate methods of steriliza- 
tion were introduced to destroy not only every tubercle bacillus, 
but also every spore. This was probably effected, but at the 
same time the nutritive value of the milk was destroyed. For 
practical purposes it has been found that boiling the milk for 
one or two minutes will destroy the bacilli, which as a rule are 
not abundant in cows' milk, unless the cow's udder is the seat 
of active disease. As a matter of clinical experience, it has 
been found that tuberculous peritonitis may occur later in 
children who have been fed entirely at the breast for nine or ten 
months. While it is most important that children should have 
tubercle-free food as far as possible, there is no evidence to show 
that the subjects of tuberculous peritonitis have been swallow- 
ing more tubercle bacilli than their neighbours who have escaped. 
It may be assumed that in town life and in crowded areas every 
child consumes in the food a considerable number of tubercle 
bacilli, both living and dead. The real risk lies in an unhealthy 
condition of the alimentary canal, which may allow of the pene- 
tration of the bacilli. Consequently the troubles of infancy 
and childhood flatulence, diarrhoea, chronic intestinal catarrh, 
and other disturbances of the gastro-intestinal tract in so far 
as they weaken the self-protecting and resisting power of the 
bowel, may predispose to abdominal tuberculosis. With a 
history of a stormy period from the above disturbances in early 
life, and also a family predisposition to tuberculosis, one has 
to regard the danger to the child of tuberculous peritonitis as 
a real one. So far as the preventive treatment of tuberculous 
peritonitis is concerned, we shall probably do more by the regula- 
tion of the diet, so as to avoid gastro-intestinal disturbance, 



830 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

than by the attempt to destroy tubercle bacilli in the milk. 
If the mucous membrane of the stomach and bowel is in a healthy 
condition, it will be able to protect itself from the invasion and 
penetration of any tubercle bacilli. 

In all acute cases, and in all cases with pyrexia, rest in bed 
should be maintained for a time. The natural tendency is to 
put such cases on a " sloppy " diet milk, bread and milk, and 
pudding. Experience has shown that this is the worst possible 
form of treatment. The abdominal swelling which is present 
is largely due to the intestinal catarrh or ulceration, with con- 
sequent flatulent distension and atony of the bowel. These 
conditions are increased on a diet of farinaceous foods and milk, 
which ferment in the bowel. The first part of the treatment 
is to clear out the bowel thoroughly, and the next to put the 
patient on a non-fermentable diet. A drachm of castor oil 
may be given twice daily until four doses have been taken, or 
some other simple evacuant may be used. The diet selected 
should be one which will allay intestinal catarrh, which will 
not decompose readily in the bowel, which will be easily digested 
and absorbed, and which will supply the system with the im- 
portant constituents calculated to combat the affection. These 
conditions are best fulfilled by a protein diet. At the outset, 
if pyrexia and loss of appetite are present one can order a diet 
of mutton, beef, veal, or chicken soup. Small quantities of 
these should be given at frequent intervals during the day. 
For children, these soups should never be made strong, as con- 
centrated soups are apt to produce indigestion. They may, 
however, be made more nourishing by the addition of raw meat 
juice, 1-2 oz. daily in divided doses, or plasmon powder, or 
somatose. It is to be noted that diarrhoea is no contra-indica- 
tion to this diet. Diarrhoea in these cases is usually due either 
to the fermentation of food or to the presence of ulceration in 
the bowel, and the protein diet will be found suitable in both 
conditions. The important point is to give only small quantities 
of food at first. As soon as possible, that is to say, when the 
patient will take it, more solid food is to be ordered in the form 
of pounded fish or chicken, or mutton, with some breadcrumb 
and white of egg to make it more savoury and appetizing. This 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 831 

is to be given quite irrespective of the condition of the tempera- 
ture chart, provided the patient's appetite is good. In some 
cases one will find that during the morning apyrexial stage the 
patient is ready for solid food, while during the evening pyrexia 
he is feeling ill and is disinclined for anything but fluids. Ad- 
vantage should be taken of the fluctuations of the temperature 
chart to feed accordingly. Often one will find that although 
pyrexia continues, the patient's tongue is clean and the appetite 
is rapidly improving. Advantage is taken of this to put him 
on to a meat diet, which he can chew thoroughly. It must be 
recognized that in children over three years of age a diet of 
plainly cooked food is more digestible and more nourishing than 
any forms of invalid cookery. The following dietary therefore 
may be ordered as suitable both for the later stages of an acute 
case, and for those chronic cases in which the temperature has 
never risen above 100 F. 

Breakfast. Fresh fish ; tongue, freshly boiled or tinned ; 
white of egg, raw or lightly boiled ; two small pieces of crisp 
toast ; one teacup of weak cocoa, with 1 oz. of milk. 

Dinner and Supper. Fish, chicken, sweetbread, tripe, hot 
or cold boiled or roast mutton or beef ; chops and steaks. These 
must be plainly cooked, and served without any fat and without 
any sauce or gravy. A small quantity of breakfast or dinner 
biscuits (one tablespoonful), or two plasmon biscuits. Half a 
glass of claret. 

If the appetite is good, as it usually is, three meals a day 
are better than frequent small meals. If, on the other hand, 
the patient is not inclined for a good meal, then the same 
materials should be given more frequently in smaller quantity. 
Raw meat sandwiches, made of scraped beefsteak and thin 
slices of stale bread, are usually readily taken by children, 
and may be given between meals. The amount of carbo- 
hydrate material is to be strictly limited, but a small quantity 
is probably not injurious and is much appreciated. Only a 
small amount of fluid is to be allowed at meals, as a dry diet is 
more digestible, but water may be given freely between meals. 
Claret acts as a tonic, and as an astringent when diarrhoea is 
present. 



832 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The benefit derived from one or other form of this protein 
diet is usually striking. The patients take it with relish and 
without discomfort. The abdominal distension usually sub- 
sides markedly within a week or ten days. The motions become 
more healthy in character, and if diarrhoea has been present it 
usually passes off. If there is no improvement under this treat- 
ment, one is led to suspect that there may be some grave lesion 
present, such as extensive ulceration of the bowel, or a mass 
of caseous and suppurating glands, or a rupture of some intestinal 
ulcer, with leakage and abscess formation in the surrounding 
tissues. It is plain one cannot expect improvement from dietetic 
treatment under such conditions. 

The above diet, while it is strengthening and tends to main- 
tain the vital powers of the patient, is not fattening. As soon 
as possible, one goes on to add some fatty food in the form of 
cream or cod-liver oil to increase the nutrition. This is a much 
more severe test of the digestive powers, and the fatty food 
must be commenced tentatively and in small quantities at first. 
I have frequently found digestive disturbances follow at once, 
so that one had to fall back on the protein diet. One drachm 
of cream or the same amount of cod-liver oil and malt may be 
ordered three times a day. Some children will take by prefer- 
ence a sardine with some of the accompanying oil, and this, or 
the yolk of an egg, may be substituted. The amount may be 
gradually increased, and some beef or mutton fat may also be 
allowed as the convalescent stage is reached. At this period 
also one may allow a return to milk and farinaceous foods, care 
being taken that the quantity given is small at first. 

I do not say that a protein diet is a cure for tuberculous 
peritonitis, but I believe that it places the patient in a better 
position to resist and conquer the attack of the tubercle bacilli. 
As fresh air tends to check pulmonary catarrh, and thus allows 
of pure air entering the pulmonary blood vessels, so a protein 
diet tends to check intestinal catarrh and allows the pure pro- 
ducts of digestion to enter the blood stream. These are all 
the advantages that are claimed for it, but if the disease is not 
too advanced the result is usually satisfactory. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 833 

CONGENITAL PYLORIC STENOSIS 

This is an affection of early infancy to which attention has 
only recently been directed. Cases are still being frequently 
overlooked, the proper treatment is not carried out, and the 
infants die. As the disease is not fully described in many text- 
books, we shall refer first of all to the clinical symptoms, which 
are as a rule clearly defined, and allow of an early diagnosis 
being made if the possibility of pyloric stenosis be kept in mind. 

The history is usually as follows : An infant, healthy at 
birth, seems to progress satisfactorily for two, three, or five 
weeks, and then vomiting comes on. It does not matter what 
the food is, breast or artificial feeding, the vomiting persists. 
Frequently it is suggested in such a case to try another food, 
and the baby is started on a career of different diete. A most 
misleading occurrence in this connexion is that a change of 
diet has often a temporary effect in checking the vomiting. It 
may be only for a day or a week, but the cessation of vomiting 
suggests that the disturbance is due to the food, that the appro- 
priate food has not been found, and so the hunt continues. 
The result is usually the same failure of the treatment and 
death of the child. The vomiting is really a regurgitation of 
the food, without any of the signs of nausea, gastric catarrh, or 
acute disease. At the beginning it is moderate in amount, not 
specially violent, and only occasional. As time goes on and 
time is measured by days in this affection the amount of vomited 
material becomes larger, representing two or three feeds, and 
the violence of the vomiting is much greater, the food being 
shot out through the mouth and nose for some distance. The 
vomited matter consists only of the food, partly digested. Occa- 
sionally blood is present, but never bile. The amount vomited 
may be considerably greater than a normal stomach oould 
contain at this age, showing that dilatation has taken place. 
The frequency of the vomiting varies, sometimes occurring only 
once a day, and at other times more frequently. The act of 
vomiting does not distress the patient, in fact it often brings 
relief, and the child is at once ready for another feed. It is 
almost characteristic of these cases that the infants are always 

53 



834 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND. DIETETICS 

ready for a feed, being in a chronic state of hunger. The infant 
wastes rather rapidly at first, and then more slowly, but steadily. 
A careful physical examination will usually reveal either marked 
peristaltic contraction of the stomach, or an enlarged and 
hardened pylorus, or both. 

All are agreed as to the clinical symptoms, but a good deal 
of difference of opinion exists as to the pathology. A hyper- 
trophic condition of the muscular tissues of the pylorus is always 
found at operations or on post-mortem examination in typical 
cases, although occasionally in practice one meets with atypical 
cases in which probably spasm is present without hypertrophy. 
The latter are much more amenable to medical treatment. The 
hypertrophy is believed by some to be due to a congenital hyper- 
plasia of the pyloric muscle (Cautley), and by others to be the 
result of persistent spasm. From the therapeutic point of view 
it is important to note that the pyloric spasm is the chief factor, 
as owing to the spasm the food is unable to pass the pylorus. 
A condition of hyperplasia or hypertrophy should not, and pro- 
bably does not, of itself prevent the pylorus from relaxing, but 
it may tend to render spasm more easily induced, and more 
persistent than under normal conditions. There is clinical 
evidence in favour of the view that such spasm is caused by 
the irritation of food in the stomach. However carefully an 
infant may be fed, some gastric disturbance or indigestion must 
happen at times, and this may be the starting point of a pyloric 
spasm which tends to persist. Hence we find that although 
the lesion is probably congenital, the symptoms may not appear 
for two, three, or even six weeks. The sequence of events 
would appear to be, first gastric irritation, secondly pyloric 
spasm, and thirdly hypertrophy and dilatation of the stomach 
from its efforts to drive the food through the pylorus. The 
vomiting is induced by the irritation of the stagnant gastric 
contents, and sometimes by the large quantity of food which 
accumulates in the stomach. 

The important medical measures are, first, suitable feeding, 
and secondly, washing out the stomach (lavage). The food 
requires to be such that it can be completely digested in the 
stomach, so as to leave no solid residue to induce pyloric spasm. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 835 

The difficulty therefore lies in the casein and the fat of milk. 
No food is better than breast milk, provided it is of normal 
quality and contains no excess of fat. This should be deter- 
mined by chemical examination, and if necessary the mother's 
diet can be altered so as to bring her milk to the proper standard. 
In any case the breast milk should not be discarded until a 
strong effort has been made to use it successfully. Fresh cows' 
milk as commonly used in infancy is not as a rule well tolerated 
in this affection, at least for some time, and one has usually 
to commence with some substitute in which the casein is more 
digestible and the amount of fat is kept small. Peptogenized 
milk or whey may be used. In such cases also life can be main- 
tained by the use of certain foods which are of themselves incom- 
plete, but which are capable of being digested in the stomach, 
such as Allenbury's food (No. I), Mellin's food, or malted milk. 
Whatever the diet is, the food must be given well diluted at 
first, and gradually increased in strength as toleration is estab- 
lished. A method which will be found useful is to alternate 
weak whey or peptogenized milk with one of the foods men- 
tioned above. Sugar in the form of malt extract may be given 
in excess of the normal requirements, as it is very digestible. 
A little orange or grape juice may be given in water. A few 
drops of raw meat juice may be added to each feed or alternate 
feed. 

To ensure complete digestion in the stomach the quantity 
given at a time must be small, and the frequency of the 
meals must be increased. From 2-3 oz. is usually as much as 
should be given at a time, and less may be called for if 
vomiting persists. The feeding will often require to be carried 
out every two hours during the day and night, and sometimes 
one will obtain better results by feeding every hour during 
the day. Both the quantity and the frequency of the feeds 
must be regulated according to the results of experience in indi- 
vidual cases. One must not expect that the fattening up process 
will go on rapidly. Every attempt to increase the fatty element 
in the diet is often followed by gastric disturbance and increased 
pyloric spasm. The administration of cod-liver oil by inunction, 
if it be of any value, would appear to be specially suited to the 



836 

conditions present, owing to the difficulty of getting fat into 
the system by the natural channel. Rectal feeding in the case 
of young infants cannot be carried out with any success. In 
many cases the tissues are dried up from the loss of fluid, and 
the use of saline injections, both subcutaneously and per rectum, 
is beneficial. From 4-10 oz. of normal saline solution may 
be injected subcutaneously every day, and will act as a restora- 
tive until the improvement of the pyloric function allows of 
the entrance of a sufficient amount of fluid by the natural route. 
In cases in which the infant is much reduced or has a subnormal 
temperature, brandy, up to a drachm daily, will be found of 
service as a general tonic. 

Gastric lavage is useful in two ways, first in removing all 
irritating remnants of food from the stomach, and secondly in 
showing the physician how to regulate successfully the food 
and feeding. For the latter reason it must be carried out under 
the supervision of the physician, and not left to a nurse. The 
stomach should be washed out once a day for a prolonged period, 
and in bad cases this proceeding may be required twice daily 
for a time. It should be done when under normal conditions 
the stomach is empty, i.e. two or two and a half hours after a 
meal as the case may be. The wash-out should show a small 
amount of soft, flocculent matter, which tends to get less in 
successful cases as time goes on. If, on the other hand, a large 
amount of matter is washed out, or undigested curds, it is clear 
that the food is not being properly digested, and will maintain 
the pyloric spasm. The food materials must be changed, or 
at any rate that food which is not properly digested, and it 
may be that the quantity of food and frequency of feeding will 
have to be altered. Dr. Cautley has pointed out that in many 
cases the mere washing out of the stomach systematically will 
check the vomiting, and that this may prove misleading. This 
is true, and enforces the importance of examining carefully the 
nature of the stomach contents in order to judge whether they 
are likely to pass the pylorus. If the residue is of the soft floccu- 
lent nature described above, one may reasonably expect that 
it can and will prove non-irritating, and will eventually pass 
through the pylorus. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 837 

The signs of successful feeding in these cases are as follows 
The vomiting ceases. The bowels come to act naturally. This 
is in marked contrast to what happens in untreated cases, where 
marked constipation is the rule, artificial aids per rectum being 
very often required, and the motions contain little faecal matter. 
The stomach peristalsis becomes less marked, and gradually 
passes off. This is due to the absence of irritating food material 
which the stomach had previously been trying to drive through 
the pylorus. The discomfort, pain, apathy, and constant whin- 
ing of the infant cease. This is owing to the appetite being 
satisfied by the entrance of food into the system. The nutri- 
tion of the infant is improved, as shown by the healthier colour, 
the increased activity of the limbs, and a slow gain in weight. 
It is very important to remember that these infants cannot be 
fattened rapidly, that any attempt to secure this will probably 
end in disaster, and that the less weighing there is the better, 
especially if there are anxious relatives about. The most suit- 
able foods are not fattening ones, and any excess of food is apt 
to produce disturbance in the stomach and bowel. On the 
other hand, the vital powers of the infant can be very much 
improved, and the disordered functions restored to healthy 
action, by a simple diet, and the fattening materials can be 
reserved to a later period. The increase in weight of the 
infant is somewhat fluctuating at first, and tends to become 
steady as time goes on, but is always slow. 

A common complication in the course of treatment is diar- 
rhoea. In cases of pyloric stenosis the bowel has been out of 
use for some time, and is consequently unprepared for the food 
material which now passes through the pylorus. Hence arises 
what is probably a form of irritative diarrhoea, which is always 
serious and may prove fatal. In such cases it is advisable to 
reduce the amount of food by one-half, and to give sips of hot 
water frequently. After an attack of vomiting no food should 
be given for at least two hours, so as to rest the stomach. Intes- 
tinal flatulence is to be treated, like diarrhoea, by a temporary 
reduction in the amount of food. 

We have entered rather fully into this somewhat rare con- 
dition of pyloric stenosis, but believe that the importance of 



838 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the dietetic treatment fully justifies it. Until recently opera- 
tion was regarded as the only possible method of cure ; but 
within the last two years many cases have been cured by means 
of dieting and lavage. At the same time it may be stated that 
no disease will tax the practitioner's powers and resources in 
the matter of dieting more than congenital pyloric stenosis. 



RICKETS 

The exact aetiology of rickets is still unsettled, but certain 
factors in its production have been determined. We are not 
concerned here with all the causes, but there is a consensus of 
opinion as to the importance of the diet. As Dr. Cheadle well 
expresses it ; " The only constant factor, always present, is 
the food factor. Sometimes it is the only factor. The chief 
cause, this fault of diet, is the commonest, the most potent, and 
dominant of all." An amount of clinical evidence has now 
been collected on this subject which is perfectly conclusive. 
The well-known experiments of Mr. Bland Sutton at the Zoo 
showed that the lower animals might suffer from rickets from 
exactly the same causes as infants. Artificial feeding for the 
young lion whelps had to be employed owing to the failure of 
their mother's milk supply. They were fed solely on the flesh 
of old horses, almost entirely destitute of fat, with some goats' 
flesh occasionally. On this they became extremely rickety 
and one died. Mi*. Bland Sutton then continued the meat 
diet, but added to it milk, cod-liver oil, and pounded bones. 
The change which followed was remarkable, for in three months 
the animals had lost all signs of rickets, and they grew up per- 
fectly healthy. In the present day one does not usually find 
that it is the quantity of food which is at fault in cases of rickets, 
but the quality. There will be found in the previous diet an 
absence of certain food materials and an excessive amount of 
others. Expressed otherwise, there is an error of defect as 
regards the fatty elements a constant factor ; and an error 
of excess as regards the carbo-hydrate elements a variable 
factor. Further analysis shows that the primary factor in 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 839 

the production of the pure clinical picture of rickets is a deficient 
amount of fat in the diet. If in addition the protein element 
is defective, there will be added weakness and impairment of 
nutrition. If in addition the carbo-hydrate element is in excess, 
there is apt to bo gastro-intestinal disorder, followed by toxaemia 
from the absorption of improperly digested food or the products 
of the decomposition of the food. 

The development of rickets takes place slowly as the result 
of the prolonged use of an improper diet. The beginnings of 
the disease are not readily recognized by the public. In certain 
classes of society rickets is so common that its leading features 
have come almost to be regarded as physiological in infants, and 
some rachitic babies are viewed as types of health and beauty. 
The disease frequently arises from the prolonged use of a food or 
a diet which had been ordered for some passing disorder. The 
food factors in the production of rickets will vary in different 
countries just as the feeding of infants does, but the general 
principles given above will hold good everywhere. In connexion 
with the subject of diet we shall have to consider both the preven- 
tive and the curative treatment. 

The preventive treatment. The special preventive treatment 
of rickets lies in the adoption of and persistence in a proper diet. 
This has already been fully discussed in connexion with the feed- 
ing of infants. Custom, cheapness, advertisements, etc., have 
brought into common use many articles of food which are not 
suitable for infants, and which induce rickets when exclusively 
used. 

The various forms of condensed milk, when diluted for use. 
are notoriously deficient in fat, and many of them contain an 
excess of sugar. This deficiency of cream is present in the best 
condensed milk, which is made from the whole milk, and is there- 
fore much more marked in that made from separated or skimmed 
milk. There are other defects in connexion with condensed milk, 
which render it unsuitable as a complete food for infants, but 
only its influence in inducing rickets need be considered here. 
The chemical analysis which is often attached to the various 
brands of condensed milk is misleading, because it shows the 
composition of the milk when condensed, and not its composition 



840 



A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 



when diluted for an infant's use. Huchison quotes from Pear- 
main and Moore the following analysis of some of the best brands 
of condensed milk when diluted as recommended for the use of 
infants. 



Dilution recommended 
for Infants' use. 


Fat in such product. 


A 


1 t 
1 
1 

1 
1 
1 


o 5 
14 
14 
15 
14 
14 
14 


1-8 per 
0-7 
0-6 
0-7 
0-8 
0-7 
0-7 
3-5 


cent. 


B 


c 


D 
E 


F 


G 


Human milk 



Both clinical experience and chemical analysis show that 
condensed milk from its deficiency in fat should not be used as 
the diet for an infant if rickets is to be prevented. Another 
factor in the production of rickets is the excessive amount of 
sugar which is present in many condensed milks. This makes 
a baby fat but not healthy, and is frequently the cause of gastro- 
intestinal indigestion. In all cases in which indigestion is present 
-any tendency to rickets which arises from the nature of the diet 
will be much increased. Rickets will also be developed on other 
forms of milk in which the fatty element is deficient, such as 
separated milk, skimmed milk, and buttermilk. These also 
stand condemned as a complete diet for infants. 

The tinned starchy foods, whether converted or unconverted, 
are largely responsible for the production of rickets. They are 
characterized by a deficiency in fat and protein, and by an excess 
of carbo-hydrate material. In those in which the starch is un- 
converted there is the additional drawback that gastro-intestinal 
disturbance will probably be induced at an early stage, and the 
nutritive value of the food will be still further diminished. These 
" infants' foods " make fat, flabby children, but the fat is of an 
unhealthy character, and is quite different from the product of a 
diet rich in animal fat. The physiological needs of infants would 
be better met by a diminution in the use of " infants' foods," 
which might be prohibited entirely without any loss to the infan- 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDRKX 841 

tile population. If their use for infants under twelve months of 
age were allowed only under medical advice there would probably 
be a great fall in the infantile mortality from rickets in large cities. 
Other starchy foods, not of a proprietary nature, such as ground 
barley, arrowroot, and cornflour are equally effective in the pro- 
duction of rickets, but they have rather fallen into disuse in the 
present day, having been replaced by the " infants' foods." 

It is sometimes stated as regards these foods, condensed milk 
and starchy preparations, that if deficiency of fat is the source of 
trouble, this can easily be remedied by adding some cream or 
butter. This, however, is not sufficient, and there are other 
drawbacks to such a system. One must recognize the tendencies 
of the female mind, and one of these is to regard any advertised 
food as possessing special virtues. The average mother has 
much more belief in a food that comes out of a tin, with a label 
extolling its good qualities, than in ordinary dairy milk. She 
will naturally concentrate her attention on what she believes to 
be the important article of diet, and will tend to neglect the 
precautionary additions, of the value of which she knows nothing. 
Many of the proprietary foods are sold with instructions appended 
as to the addition of fresh cows' milk. One finds, however, as a 
matter of experience that as time goes on the amount of fresh 
milk is not increased, and is possibly lessened, while the amount 
of the patent food is steadily increased. In the preventive treat- 
ment of rickets it is not sufficient to give from a quarter to hah* a 
pint of cows' milk daily, along with some other food, but there 
must be a proper amount of fresh proteins and fats. Again, 
one constantly meets with cases in which some months pre- 
viously a medical man had ordered condensed milk or some 
patent food for a temporary digestive disturbance, and this food 
had been continued until the symptoms of rickets led the 
mother to seek medical advice again. It is of the grea 
importance that a time limit should always be imposed in the 
case of such substitute feeding, lest its undue prolongation lead 
to the production of rickets. 

The question is sometimes raised and it is a very important 
one as to whether an infant, nourished entirely at the breast, 
ever develops rickets. The answer must be in the affirmative, 



842 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

but with qualifications. If a healthy mother, with plenty of good 
milk, feeds her infant at regular intervals and uses no other food 
whatever, we may safely assert that the infant will not become 
rickety during the normal period of lactation. The cases of rickets 
in breast-fed infants in the writer's experience have occurred 
as follows : In some cases there has been too frequent feeding, 
which resulted in the production of a milk deficient in fat, and as 
regards the infant in gastro-intestinal catarrh. The milk being 
deficient in fat and the digestion being imperfect, the conditions 
for the development of rickets were present. In other cases an 
excessive amount of unconverted starch, either in the form of 
thick barley-water, or of some proprietary food, was given to the 
infant in addition to the breast milk. The disturbance of diges- 
tion which accompanies the use of improper food may render the 
assimilation of the best milk impossible. Again, lactation may 
have been carried on beyond the normal period, and the nutriment 
supplied has become deficient in fat. In some cases, from too 
frequent child-bearing, the breast milk after two or three months 
may be of such inferior quality that rickets develops. Dr. 
Cheadle has found that if a mother becomes pregnant while 
suckling, the foetus in utero may flourish, but the infant at the 
breast may dwindle into a condition of rickets and marasmus. 
This he ascribes to the diversion of the nourishment from the 
breast to the foetus. These exceptions in no way affect the general 
rule that sound breast milk is the best food for infants. 

In the case of infants over a year old, the same general causes, 
namely, a deficient amount of fat and an excessive amount of 
carbo-hydrate, must be avoided in the preventive treatment of 
rickets. Carbo-hydrates are cheap and easily prepared, while 
fatty foods are dear and are not in such common use. Tea, 
bread, jam, potatoes, and perhaps a " penn'orth of milk " repre- 
sent a common dietary for young children, and it is one specially 
conducive to rickets. Such a diet is so deficient in fats and pro- 
teins that its unsuitableness is at once apparent. These deficien- 
cies must therefore be avoided. 

The curative treatment. In an ordinary case of rickets there 
are two stages in the curative treatment, first to relieve the gastro- 
intestinal disturbance by a spare diet of weak and digestible 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 843 

food, and secondly to cure the constitutional affection by a 
dietary in which fats and proteins are fully represented. 

It is useless to commence with a large amount of fatty food 
because the already impaired digestion would only be still further 
weakened. There are usually present intestinal catarrh, a 
dilated and weakened condition of the wall of the stomach and 
bowel, and fermentation of the intestinal contents. It is advis- 
able, therefore, to begin with simple plain food in small quantities. 
An infant of twelve months may be ordered a mixture of milk, 
lime-water, and thin barley-water in equal proportions, of which 
4| ounces may be taken every three hours during the day. After 
some days of this dietary, it may be less than a week, or more, 
according to the conditions present, the strength of the food may 
be increased by giving equal parts of milk and lime-water. If > 
on the other hand, the signs of gastro-intestinal fermentation 
persist, it is advisable to stop all milk for a few days, and to give 
only weak mutton or chicken soup. This, along with suitable 
medication directed to the bowel condition, will soon allow of a 
return to milk. The quantity and strength of the milk mixture 
are to be gradually increased until the patient is taking a pint 
of milk and half a pint of barley-water daily. 

In the second stage of the treatment a fuller dietary is called 
for so as to procure proper nutrition and remove the rachitic 
debility. The fatty element comes first in importance. Fat 
may be given in the form of cream, butter, dripping, yolk of egg, 
beef, mutton, or bacon fat, or cod-liver oil, the chief essential 
being that it is animal fat. Vegetable or mineral oils do not seem 
to be nearly so efficacious. It may appear at first sight super- 
fluous to give a large fat baby more fat in its diet, but experience 
has shown that the fatty tissues of a rickety infant, derived as a 
rule from carbo-hydrates, are merely a burden. Under the use 
of a diet rich in animal fat these flabby tissues melt away and are 
replaced by healthy tissues. Further, there is required for the 
growth and nutrition of most of the organs an abundant supply of 
fat, and in rachitic babies these organs may be said to be starved 
in this respect. As a result their function is much impaired and 
their powers of resistance much lowered. Hence we find that 
many of the disorders of rachitic infants do not yield readily to 



844 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

an ordinary diet, nor to ordinary medication, but do yield to a 
full amount of fat in the food. In the employment of fat, there- 
fore, in the treatment of rickets, in order to procure the full effect 
as speedily as possible, we must not be content with a normal 
amount of fat, but should push it to the full degree of toleration, 
as judged by the digestive powers, and the nature of the stools. 
The form in which the fat is administered is not unimportant, 
and gravity cream, bacon fat, and cod-liver oil will be found the 
most suitable for young children. Fresh milk, containing as it 
does a fine emulsion of fat and a large amount of protein, is to 
be regarded as the chief article of diet during the whole of the 
rachitic period. It is of the first importance that it should be 
whole milk, and uncontaminated by preservatives or sterilized 
by excessive heating. To a slight extent by boiling and to a 
marked extent by sterilizing, the fat of milk is altered as regards 
its digestibility. Probably unboiled milk is more rapidly effica- 
cious in rickets than boiled, and the former should be used when- 
ever the purity of the milk can be relied on. If additional pro- 
tein food seems called for, it maybe given in the form of white of 
egg or raw meat juice, half to one ounce to be added to the milk 
daily. The raw meat juice is especially useful when the anaemia 
of rickets is pronounced. The supply of carbo-hydrate material 
may be temporarily diminished during the active stage of treat- 
ment. Just as the tissues have been described as being starved 
of animal fat, so they may be said to have been saturated with 
carbo-hydrates. The history of the previous diet will usually 
show that clearly. Both the digestion and the system generally 
will benefit from a strictly limited amount of sugar, bread, and 
puddings. Hutchison, speaking of the dietetic treatment of 
rickets, says that " a rickety child must be mainly carnivorous, 
as rickets might be said to be due to premature vegetarianism." 
Rickety infants have often a great liking for salt, and this probably 
implies a demand on the part of the organism. One to two 
drachms of common salt may be given daily in the milk. It will 
also be found beneficial to give some fresh fruit, such as orange or 
grape juice, and a small quantity of mashed potato occasionally. 
These will supply the anti-scorbutic elements, which have often 
been markedly deficient in the previous diet. This addition is 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 845 

specially called for in all cases where tenderness of the limbs is 
present. 

A dietary suitable for different ages may be drawn up as 
follows : 

Between nine and twelve months. Cows' milk which has been 
brought to the boil, and slightly sweetened and salted (1-1 
pints daily). 

Half a teaspoonful of butter, or two to three teaspoonfuls 
of cream may be given three to four times a day in the milk. Cod- 
liver oil. 

Two meals in the day may consist of (1) porridge made with 
milk, or (2) any plain milk pudding, or (3) boiled bread and 
milk. 

The child should be fed every three hours by day and only 
once during the night (10 p.m. to 7 a.m.). 

Between twelve and eighteen months. The milk may be 
increased to two pints a day. In addition there may be given 
an ounce of cream, or the yolk of one egg, or bacon fat, daily. 
Bread and butter are allowed, the former in strictly moderate 
amount. Cod-liver oil. 

After eighteen months. In addition to the above, boiled fish, 
chicken, mutton, biscuits, and green vegetables are allowed. 
The quantity of milk must be lessened when other foods are 
added, but the fatty material must be in sufficient amount. Cod- 
liver oil. 

Cod-liver oil holds a prominent place in the dietetic treat- 
ment of rickets from its being one of the most convenient forms of 
giving fat. In one or other form it is usually taken readily by 
the youngest rachitic subjects, and is easily digested. While it is 
really to be regarded as a food, it appeals also to the lay mind 
from the fact that it is sold in medicine bottles. The variety of 
preparations on the market show that all differences in taste 
have been consulted. The oil may be given either in the crude 
form, or in the refined preparation which is commonly sold. 
As a rule, a good emulsion is to be preferred, as being more 
palatable, and therefore probably more digestible. The follow- 
ing is the preparation in use at the Children's Hospital, Padding- 
ton Green. 



846 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

EMTHLSIO MORBHU^E ET HYPOPHOSPHITUM. 

E. 

Sodii Hypoph., Calcii Hypoph. . aa gr J 

Olei Morrhuse . . . . TT|xxx 

Olei Cassiae . . n\iV 

Glycerin! ......... Tl|yi 

Tragacanthse ......... q.s. 

Aquam destill. ad ........ 3J 

This emulsion contains 50 per cent of cod-liver oil, and the 
dose is from 1-2 drachms three times a day. The great advan- 
tage about cod-liver oil as a fat is that it can be obtained of 
reliable quality at a moderate price. Yolk of egg is also an admi- 
rable fatty substance, but eggs are frequently expensive and of 
doubtful freshness. It is not advisable to give a rickety baby the 
yolks of " cooking eggs " or of eggs which have been preserved 
for six months. When the freshness of the egg is beyond sus- 
picion, there is no better fatty food for the youngest rickety in- 
fant. The yolk may be given raw and mixed in the milk, or may 
be lightly boiled. 



SCURVY 

It is found that over 75 per cent of the cases of scurvy occur- 
ring during the whole period of childhood arise between the sixth 
and twenty-fourth months, and hence the term "infantile scurvy" 
is fully justified. Scurvy is essentially a disease of diet, as a 
faulty diet will invariably be found to be the primary cause. Dr. 
Cheadle, who was the first to recognize the condition of infantile 
scurvy in this country, says : " In no instance have I seen the 
disease arise in an infant at the breast, or when fed on an ample 
supply of good cows' milk. Oatmeal and water, bread and water, 
various patent farinaceous and desiccated foods, peptonized milk, 
condensed milk, sterilized milk, ' humanized ' milk, German 
sausage, bread and butter and tea, beef-tea, gravy and bread, in 
most cases with no fresh milk at all, in a few with a very small 
amount only, are the dietaries on which I have seen scurvy 
develop, and, latterly, most often on the peptonized and pan- 
creatized foods now so much in vogue." 

The following facts in connexion with the aetiology of 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 847 

scurvy may be borne in mind: (1) Scurvy is a disease of 
defect, not of excess. (2) The defect consists in the absence 
from the. diet for a prolonged period of a sufficient amount 
of the anti-scorbutic element in food. (3) Although the exact 
element is not known, the foods which contain it are known. 
(4) The anti-scorbutic element is found most abundantly in fresh 
or living food, more especially in fruits and vegetables, and the 
further we get from fresh food as the regular diet, the greater 
is the tendency to scurvy. (5) There is a class of prepared foods 
for infants (tinned foods, " proprietary foods," " infants' 
foods ") in which, during the process of preparation, the anti- 
scorbutic element has been entirely destroyed. 

The preventive treatment of scurvy may be briefly summed up 
as the employment of a fresh food diet, suitable in quantity and 
quality to the age of the child. This has already been described. 
If cows' milk is the diet, the milk must be fresh, of sufficient 
quantity, and not altered by prolonged boiling or pasteurizing. 
Many cases of scurvy have been traced to the use of sterilized or 
pasteurized milk. This risk has been increased recently by the 
action of several of the large dairy companies, which are supply- 
ing pasteurized milk to all their customers, without any intima- 
tion that the milk has been so treated. As many of the customers 
proceed to boil the milk on delivery, the vital element in it will be 
in an extremely attenuated condition by the time the milk reaches 
the infant. The custom referred to is a recent one, but Dr. Coutts 
has already recorded a case of an infant suffering from scurvy who 
failed to improve on the dairy milk supplied. It was then dis- 
covered that this milk had been pasteurized, and on changing to 
fresh cows' milk, rapid improvement took place. Cases have also 
been traced to the use of milk from municipal depots, where un- 
doubtedly the milk had been treated in an injurious way by pro- 
longed heating. While the risk of scurvy is increased by pro- 
longed pasteurizing or sterilizing, the domestic method of boiling 
the milk for a few minutes, or scalding it, is probably harmless. 
Sometimes over-dilution of the milk leads to scurvy. It is said 
that a quart of milk contains as much citric acid as an orange, 
and this citric acid is looked on by many as the anti-scorbutic 
element. But if an infant receives only one quarter or one half 



848 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of a pint of milk daily, the amount of anti-scorbutic material 
may be so small that scurvy develops. It is therefore necessary 
to see that there is a sufficient quantity of fresh milk in the dietary, 
namely, 1 to 2 pints daily. Another curious fact about scurvy 
is that it often develops as the result of the prolonged use of some 
special food ordered for the cure of another disease or disorder. 
Thus, owing to indigestion of some form, an infant may have been 
put on peptonized milk, and after some months of this diet scurvy 
is produced ; or condensed milk has been prescribed for gastro- 
intestinal disturbance, and after some months scurvy appears. 
It must be remembered that predigested milk and condensed 
milk are liable to induce scurvy if employed as the sole diet 
for any length of time. 

The direct connexion between the employment of a diet con- 
sisting of condensed milk and other patent " infants' foods," 
and the subsequent appearance of scurvy, has led all writers on 
the subject to regard such a diet as the chief cause of scurvy. 
Some of these foods are more frequently associated with scurvy 
than others, but this pre-eminence is due (1) to the larger sale of 
the food, or (2) to its use during the earliest months of life, or (3) 
to its exclusive use without the addition of any fresh milk. It is 
daily becoming clearer that these artificially prepared and pre- 
served foods are not to be depended on in the feeding of infants, 
and in the preventive treatment of scurvy they must be abolished 
entirely from the diet, as it is practically impossible to confine 
their use within safe limits. After the age of two years scurvy 
becomes much less common because fruit and vegetables 
almost invariably form part of the diet. In rare cases one finds that 
there is a positive dislike to fruit and vegetables in any form, and 
in the absence of any anti-scorbutic material in the diet, scurvy 
may appear. In such cases the special dislike must be overcome 
by firm treatment. 

The curative treatment proceeds on the same lines as the 
preventive. In the case of infants, fresh milk is to be given, 
and in order to secure the most prompt effect, it should not be 
treated by heat in any way. There is little doubt that unboiled 
milk is a more efficient anti-scorbutic than boiled, and whenever 
the purity can be relied on milk should be given unboiled. At the 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN 849 

same time the anti-scorbutic element in cows' milk is small, al- 
though sufficient to ward off scurvy, and in the curative treatment 
larger amounts of the anti-scorbutic element are called for. 
Raw meat juice has been recommended by Dr. Cheadle and Sir 
Thomas Barlow for the anaemia which is usually present. It is 
not of great anti-scorbutic value, as hung meat only is used in 
this country, but is easily retained and digested. For an infant 
of twelve months, half an ounce of expressed meat juice may 
be given daily, in divided amounts and well diluted with milk or 
water. 

The more special part of the dietetic treatment consists in the 
free administration of fresh fruits and vegetables, whose anti- 
scorbutic value is great. The full list of these is a large one, but 
the following will be found the most useful, namely oranges, 
lemons, grapes, potatoes and cabbages. In the case of infants 
under one. year, the juice of oranges or grapes may be expressed, 
and half an ounce may be given in water three times a day. For 
older infants, boiled and sieved potato, mixed with milk, is a 
most effective anti-scorbutic. Dr. Hutchison recommends that 
the potato should be boiled in its skin, and that the floury part 
just beneath the skin should be used, as this is richest in potash 
salts. Another plan, suited to those with weak digestive powers, 
is to administer the vegetable juices through the medium of 
beef-tea or chicken-tea, in which potatoes and carrots have been 
boiled and strained off (Cheadle). 

Care must be taken that the amount of fruit or vegetables is 
not in excess of the infant's digestive powers, in which case sick- 
ness, flatulence, diarrhoea, etc., may follow and interfere with the 
recovery. 

The effect of this special treatment is one of the most striking 
in medical therapeutics. Improvement is often noted within a 
couple of days, and recovery from acute manifestations within a 
week, provided that the disease has not progressed too far. The 
child begins to brighten, milk is taken with avidity and relish, 
the haemorrhages cease, the swelling of the gums subsides, the 
tenderness in the limbs becomes less marked, and there is not 
that look of anxiety, from fear of movement, on the approach of 

an attendant. 

64 



850 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

We have pointed out in connexion with rickets that scorbutic 
symptoms may be associated with that disease. So it will often 
be found that scurvy is complicated by rickets. In other words, 
a double defect, absence of fat and of the anti-scorbutic element, 
is often present in the dietary at the same time and leads to the 
production of the two diseases. This fact must be borne in mind 
in connexion with the treatment, for a rachitic infant will not 
recover so rapidly if the scorbutic element is overlooked, and vice 
versa. 

It has been held by some that if only the anti-scorbutic 
element is wanting in the diet, the same food may be continued 
in cases of scurvy with the addition of some orange juice. 
This is false reasoning, and a complete change of diet is almost 
invariably called for. In some rare cases it may be only over- 
dilution of the milk and starvation which has produced the 
disease. Dr. Colman has specially emphasized the fact that rapid 
improvement is not to be looked for in scurvy unless all preserved 
foods are omitted from the diet. He has seen three cases in 
which, although fresh milk, raw beef juice, and orange juice were 
freely administered, the pains did not subside until the patent 
food, which had been persisted with, was stopped. As soon as 
this was done, the subsidence of all scorbutic symptoms was 
immediate. An explanation of this failure of the treatment while 
the previous diet was continued may be found in the toxic theory 
of scurvy. According to this view there is not only an absence 
of fresh food material but there are toxic properties in the food 
used. Nansen found that scurvy did not arise in his Arctic 
expedition as long as the tinned provisions were wholesome, but 
the preservation was imperfect and scurvy broke out. Now 
tinned foods are largely associated with the occurrence of infantile 
scurvy, and although the food may be sound when the tin is opened, 
it is very liable to decompose after being exposed to the air. The 
contents of a tin have usually to last for some days, and it may be 
that during this time contamination and decomposition take 
place. For these reasons our aim should be to employ not the 
minimum amount of change in the diet which may bring about a 
cure, but to secure the maximum of benefit in the shortest time 
by a radical change of diet. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 

BY SIB PATRICK MANSON, K.C.M.G., M.D., F.R.S., Ain> 
C. W. DANIELS, M.B. 

General considerations. Some tropical diseases, such as 
sprue and dysentery, are in the main best treated by modifica- 
tions in diet, whilst in other tropical diseases diet is of sub- 
sidiary importance, and in others again errors in diet are causes of 
relapse or of grave complications. 

In tropical countries the normal diets of the European and 
native inhabitants respectively differ more than do those of the 
various classes of the inhabitants of temperate climates. The 
effects of dietetic errors in Europeans in the tropics are, on the 
whole, more marked than would be the case from similar errors 
in temperate climates ; this is specially so as regards the abuse 
of alcohol and condiments, and also as regards deficiency of 
fresh vegetables, of fruits, and occasionally of meat. 

Frequently the European in the tropics does not modify 
his diet sufficiently, and does not make adequate use of the local 
vegetables and other native material. The meats and fruits 
there are sometimes comparatively dry and tasteless, and the 
vegetables are apt to be indigestible and of inferior quality. 
More thorough cooking and also higher spicing of the dishes are 
frequently resorted to and a larger variety of methods of pre- 
paration employed. As a result the bulk of food taken is as 
much or even more than in Europe, and protein material, not 
always in a very digestible condition, forms too large a proportion 
of the dietary. 

Moreover, as less active physical work is usually performed, 
and as the heat production required to maintain the body tem- 

853 



854 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

perature is less, the result is that an excess of food material is 
ingested which has to be excreted or more or less injuriously 
assimilated. The excretory organs are thus unnecessarily 
taxed and owing to the usual free diaphoresis the fluids taken 
are insufficient to flush the kidneys properly, or to secure ade- 
quate excretion of the solid products by that channel. The 
liver may become abnormally congested and in many cases 
nervous symptoms, similar to those attributed to uric acid 
poisoning, may develop. In other cases the digestive organs 
fail and chronic atonic dyspepsia, dilated stomach, chronic 
constipation, or less commonly chronic diarrhoea, sometimes 
of a lienteric character, are the consequences. Copious draughts 
of water, of aerated waters, and iced drinks are also a fruitful 
source of dilatation of the stomach and of gastric catarrh. 

Another potent cause of tropical dyspepsia is the use and 
abuse of drugs, such as quinine. As a prophylactic this drug 
is still necessary in the more malarial districts where other 
preventive measures have not been instituted or are ineffect- 
ive. Its persistent employment in this way may lead to a 
form of atonic dyspepsia, or of gastric catarrh. 

Many of the conditions known popularly as " tropical liver " 
are due to dyspepsia produced in one or more of these ways, 
possibly in some instances complicated by alcoholism. 

Many tropical diseases, such as repeated attacks of malaria, 
bring about mental depression and indifference to food. Under 
such conditions food may be taken irregularly and in insufficient 
quantities, and little attention may be paid to the quality or 
the cooking. These circumstances may lead to alcoholism, 
as the sinking feeling so commonly felt is temporarily relieved 
by stimulants. 

Some of the effects of these various conditions are slight 
in young and healthy adults. In others, even in those who 
live an open-air life, and who take plenty of active exercise, 
although they may not be seen at first, they may manifest 
themselves after several years of apparent immunity. In 
persons living a sedentary life, and particularly in many 
women, there is no such counterbalancing physical activity; 
these suffer early and usually severely. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 855 

The treatment of such dyspeptic conditions is difficult if 
one is restricted solely to dietetic measures. Patients rarely 
consult the medical man in the early stages when regulation 
of the diet and life would result in speedy cure. Even when 
the condition is well established, a simple nutritious diet con- 
sisting mainly of milk, fish and fresh vegetable food (native if 
fresh European vegetables are not to be had), and such fruits 
as can be obtained, together with temperance or total abstinence 
in the matter of alcohol, will often result in marked ameliora- 
tion. Change to a temperate climate is in the majority of cases 
necessary, and even without restriction of diet marked improve- 
ment usually follows, whilst with a carefully regulated plain 
liberal dietary, complete recovery may be anticipated. The 
worst cases, however, should be sent to such health resorts as 
Harrogate, Carlsbad, Homburg, Vichy, and the like, where 
the combination of a regular life and restricted diet together with 
carefully regulated exercise, aided perhaps by the waters, 
will usually restore the health completely. Dyspeptics of this 
description should not return to the tropics if it can be avoided. 

With wealthy natives a similar condition is not uncommon. 
The actual diet will be different, and the excess of food taken 
will be not in protein only but in fatty substances also. Although 
such natives will probably use more highly spiced and flavoured 
condiments, they are less likely than the European to abuse 
alcohol. The effects, however, are similar, except that in the 
native the tendency to obesity is greater and, as little active 
physical exercise is taken, appears early. Such patients do 
not submit readily to restrictions in their diet or course of life. 
The indications, however, are clear ; these are to reduce the 
amount of fats and proteins and to increase the amount of un- 
cooked vegetable food. If this course can be combined with 
increased exercise, or, if this cannot be done, with long carriage 
drives, amelioration frequently results. 

With the mass of the native population the dietetic errors 
are mostly due to poverty. As a consequence, there is more 
or less deficiency in the more expensive protein and fatty 
foods. The protein and fats consumed are in the main derived 
from the comparatively cheap vegetables, whilst the bulk of 



856 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

the diet consists of the cheapest cereal available. Rice is the 
main support of a large portion of the population, and in times 
of scarcity may be absolutely the only food taken. On such 
a diet life can be maintained and even vigorous work performed, 
but the relative proportions of protein, fat, and carbo-hydrate 
are such that a great strain must be thrown on the digestive 
powers. In some districts even rice is too expensive for the 
impoverished population. Sweet potatoes, yams and similar 
innutritions vegetables become the staple food, with the result 
that enormous quantities are of necessity ingested, and the 
stomach becomes permanently dilated from recurring over- 
distension. 

Thus diet may be an actual cause of disease. Excess of protein 
material in Europeans, and deficiency of proteins in the poorer 
classes of natives and in some institutions, are instances of this. 

A native prison dietary, in use in one of the crown colonies, 
on which, as regards physical conditions, health may be main- 
tained with little or no loss of weight, will serve to illustrate 
some of the points above referred to : 

Rice. Beans. Vegetables. Salt fish. Fresh meat. 

Penal diet . 154 oz. 14 oz. 35 oz. per week. 

Ordinary diet . 147 14 49 24 oz. 18 oz. 

Certain special articles of food are at times causes of definite 
diseases. Pellagra is reputed to be closely associated with the 
consumption of Indian corn, maize, in a diseased condition, 
especially when affected by fungi such as aspergillus fumigatus. 
Lathyrism is produced by the continued use of Lathyrus sativus 
and possibly of L. clymenum and cicera. Possibly rice 
in some of its forms may contain the poison of beri-beri. 
Ergotism occurs in the tropics as well as in temperate climates. 

Certain articles in common consumption are at times poison- 
ous, or may be so if insufficiently cooked. Cassava-manioc 
(Mainhot utilissima) contains a glucoside which in the presence 
of acids breaks up, setting free hydrocyanic acid. The amount 
of this glucoside varies with the age of the tuber, and also in 
different varieties of the plant. In the bitter cassava the amount 
is considerable, and if the root be eaten only partially cooked, fatal 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 857 

prussic acid poisoning may rapidly occur. Boiling breaks up 
the glucoside and prolonged boiling expels so much of the hydro- 
cyanic acid that no poisonous effects will be produced. Cassa- 
reep, which forms the basis of so many sauces, is obtained by 
pressing the juice from the bitter cassava and allowing complete 
fermentation to take place whilst the juice is exposed to the 
air. If not properly mature a poisonous amount of prussic 
acid may be contained in this substance, though when fully 
mature it has all been destroyed. 

Articles of food may be contaminated by flies with the 
organisms of various diseases. Flies are under some circum- 
stances very prevalent and active in the tropics, and as human 
excreta are less thoroughly dealt with there, these insects are 
an important factor in the spread of disease. Cholera, as well 
as typhoid fever, has been shown to be carried in this manner. 
Cold meats therefore, are dangerous foods, for it may well be 
that they get contaminated by flies or other insects after they 
have been cooked and have cooled. Rats, again, may con- 
taminate food with the plague bacillus. 

Tinned foods are extensively consumed in some tropical 
countries. They are frequently more used than they should 
be as, at the best, their nutritive value is less than that of 
fresh meat ; moreover there is some risk of metallic poisoning. 
The most serious objection to the indiscriminate use of tinned 
meats is that it is not always easy to determine whether or not 
any given tin has been stocked too long. Some of those sent 
abroad are already old, and others are kept too long in the 
tropics. The better class of firms do not stock tins very long, but 
sell off surplus stock to small traders, and so in the remoter 
districts where these small traders are principally to be found, only 
very old tins may be procurable. In some cases there is obvious 
evidence of decomposition, the formation of gas having caused 
the tin to be " blown," i.e. the concave end to be bulged out 
and convex. Frequently the vendor perforates and reboils 
such tins, subsequently soldering up the puncture made. The 
contents of tins showing two soldered points, therefore, should 
not be used for food. It is to be regretted that, with the excep- 
tion of Australasian goods, the stamping of tins with the date 



858 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of preparation is not compulsory. Ptomaine poisoning from 
stale tinned food is by no means rare. 

The main articles of food used in the dietetic treatment of 
acute diseases are milk, broths, barley, arrowroot, rice, and 
oatmeal ; to these may be added various proprietary articles 
such as bovril, Liebig's extract, Valentine's meat juice, and 
many kinds of malted foods. 

Milk. In many tropical countries, such as West Africa, 
milk cannot be obtained except in a preserved form. In other 
countries, cows', goats' or buffalos' milk can be readily procured. 
The nutritive values of these vary. 

Buffalos' milk is very rich in fat, there being nearly twice 
as much as in cows' milk ; it is also richer in proteins though 
not so rich in lactose. It is less digestible, has a peculiar smell 
and flavour, and, as a rule, is not suited for invalids. 

Goats' milk differs less from cows' milk ; but as the goat is 
susceptible to Malta fever, and the Micrococcus melitensis is 
discharged in the milk of infected animals, it is better not to 
use the milk of these animals unless efficiently pasteurized or, 
better, well boiled. 

Where cows' milk is available, it should be used in prefer- 
ence to preserved milk. In the tropics, unless milk can be con- 
sumed fresh from the cow, it must be boiled, and thus rendered 
slightly less digestible. 

It is necessary to boil milk in the tropics because : 

(1) Under tropical conditions the growth of organisms is 
so rapid that milk quickly turns sour. 

(2) The natives frequently add water to the milk and are 
apt to be careless as regards the washing and scalding of the 
utensils used. 

(3) The water used for such dilution and for washing utensils 
is usually drawn from shallow wells or pools liable to contami- 
nation. Inspection and regulation of the milk supplies in the 
tropics are very lax. 

(4) Obvious impurities are strained off with old rags or 
articles of clothing actually in use. 

(5) Cattle are often fed on garbage of all kinds. 

The obvious plan for minimizing the necessity for boiling 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 859 

where the milk is intended for consumption by Europeans, or 
for use in hospital, is to keep cattle under the best possible 
sanitary conditions and to ensure that they are milked with 
due hygienic precautions. This must be done under European 
supervision. 

Fresh milk is better diluted if for use by invalids. In most 
febrile diseases thirst is excessive, and if considerable quantities 
of milk are rapidly swallowed, the hard and massive curd which 
then forms in the stomach is difficult to digest and may tend 
to increase or induce vomiting, dyspepsia or diarrhoea. 

In the acute fevers of short duration, such as malaria and 
blackwater fever, where the demand for fluid is greater than 
the immediate necessity for food, the milk given should be freely 
diluted with soda-water. Where it is less desirable to supply 
fluid, and nourishment in a concentrated form is required, 
dilution with barley-water or rice-water is better. The amount 
added need not be more than half the amount of milk. 

Where fresh milk is not available, tinned milk has to be 
used. The sweetened milks should be avoided. The best 
tinned milks are those in which the milk is not reduced to a 
paste but merely concentrated and is still in fluid form. The 
tin must be carefully examined to see that there has been no 
second puncture or bulging. The contents must be odourless. 
A tin once opened must be used quickly. The highly sweetened 
milks will keep fairly well, but with the unsweetened, and these 
only should be used for invalids, immediate consumption is 
necessary. 

In making either rice-water or barley-water it is essential 
that the rice or barley should be washed with many changes of 
water until the water comes away quite clear, and then boiling 
water should be poured on and poured away to complete thor- 
oughly the cleaning of the grains. Finally the barley (4 table- 
spoonfuls to the quart, or rice 2 tablespoonfuls) should be placed 
in cold water which is slowly brought to the boil and maintained 
at that temperature for one hour. Till native servants are 
well trained, much supervision is required, and the washing of 
rice before making rice-water is apt to be neglected or imperfectly 
performed, especially by the Chinese. 



860 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

Broths. Chickens or fowls can always be obtained, and. 
chicken broth is on the whole the form of broth best suited for 
invalids. In certain countries custom or religion interdicts 
the use of several kinds of animal food, but chicken broths 
can be taken by nearly all natives whatever their religion may 
be. 

At times various meat preparations, Liebig's extract, bovril, 
etc., have to be used, but they should be relied on as little as 
possible. They apparently keep well, and but few cases of 
ptomaine poisoning have been attributed to their use. 

The dietary during convalescence is most important. Many 
relapses in diseases both of the alimentary canal and of other 
organs are due to dietetic errors. The appetite of patients 
varies ; with some after a single short attack of illness it is vora- 
cious, and with natives it often takes the form of an intense 
craving for a heavy meat meal which, if gratified, will usually 
prove injurious, and may produce a fatal relapse. Part of 
this craving is due to a too slow return to a liberal dietary, and 
particularly to unnecessarily prohibiting solid but easily digest- 
ible foods. Fish, eggs, milk puddings, bread and fresh vege- 
tables can be allowed early in convalescence in most febrile 
diseases. Large meals should not be permitted ; frequent small 
feeds are safer. Some food should be provided for the middle 
of the night, if desired, as an interval of twelve hours between 
meals is too long for a convalescent who is inclined to be ravenous. 
In other cases, although the actual disease is over, there is 
a disinclination for any food ; in such convalescence is much 
retarded. This disinclination may be the result of some com- 
plication which requires treatment. Sometimes, as in malaria, 
it is due to quinine and the consequent atonic dyspepsia. 
In other cases it is due to anaemia. Change of air has 
often a markedly beneficial effect. Drugs given by the 
mouth should be used as little as possible. Forced feeding or 
undue pressure are not to be employed. Small but tasty and 
nutritive meals should be provided, and more should not be 
given at any one time than the patient can easily digest. 
Fruits are often readily taken under such conditions, and bananas 
and various other fruits are actually beneficial. Alcoholic 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 861 

stimulants, except light wines, should be avoided. The fluid 
from the interior of the cocoanut cocoanut milk can be taken 
when quite fresh, but not when there is acute disease of the 
alimentary canal. It is contra-indicated also where there is 
flatulence. It must not be drunk in large quantities. 

The dietary in most of the tropical diseases is to be regulated 
largely by the tastes, inclinations and resources of the patient, 
and controlled by the exercise of common sense and the applica- 
tion of general principles. 

Natives of the poorer classes may be assumed to be under- 
fed, particularly as regards nitrogenous food. In chronic, more 
or less incurable diseases, such as leprosy, the effects of a liberal 
dietary including abundant fatty substances are most marked, 
the general condition improving greatly and the disease for a 
time appearing to retrogress. 

Europeans more often have overfed on a highly nitrogenous 
diet, combined sometimes with the consumption of alcohol in 
excess of the physiological standard. In such a light, sufficient, 
but not excessive diet results in an improvement in the 
general condition. 

It is, as a rule, useless to attempt to feed during an acute 
febrile condition where there is an actual disinclination for 
food. During convalescence, restraint is necessary ; at the 
same time the patient must not be starved. 



MALARIA 

The benign malarial fevers call for no special dietary. During 
the febrile paroxysms food need not be given ; if given it would 
probably not be retained. Fluids may be taken freely, and such as 
promote diaphoresis are to be recommended. Hot tea is often 
retained better than cold drinks, and if given weak is beneficial. 
Various hot drinks, such as lemon decoction, infusions of lemon 
grass or other faintly aromatic substances are also useful. In 
the apyrexial intervals, light but not slop diet may be taken 
freely, unless there is persistent gastric irritation. 

In the so-called malignant malarial fevers the pyrexial attacks 



862 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

last longer, but as the attack can usually be treated effectively in 
two or three days, it is not necessary to force much food on the 
patient. Any food that is given should be in a fluid form. 
Milk and soda-water, if given in small quantities at a time, 
is usually retained even when there is a considerable amount of 
vomiting, Food that is not vomited is usually digested. 

In all cases of malaria a light diet, consisting of fish, fowl 
and vegetables, with a little red meat, may be taken during 
convalescence. Care must be exercised to vary the diet, as there 
is often distaste for food, partly from the disease and partly 
from the effects of the quinine used in the treatment. Stimulants 
are not required during an ordinary attack of malaria. In the 
graver cases and in young children they must be used if there 
be any sign of cardiac failure. 



BLACKWATER FEVER 

As in malaria, the individual attack is of short duration, 
nevertheless during this brief period an extreme degree of 
anaemia is attained. The greatest danger is suppression of urine ; 
consequently the main dietetic requirement is the maintenance 
of an abundant supply of fluid in order to flush the kidneys. 
Nutriment, though important even during the acute stage, is 
less so than water. 

Vomiting is a marked symptom in most cases, and is often 
a precursor and concomitant of suppression of urine. Every 
care, therefore, must be taken that fluid and diet be so arranged 
and administered as not to provoke this symptom. Food in 
liquid form, such as milk and soda-water or cooled broth, may 
be given frequently in 1 or 2 oz. doses, whilst the patient is 
kept perfectly still and hot applications are made to the epigas- 
trium. If vomiting supervene, food must be discontinued, 
although plain fluids may still possibly be given by the mouth. 
Rectal alimentation can be employed, but as frequent saline 
enemata must be given, the bowel may become irritated, in 
which event there is little chance of absorption taking place ; 
recourse must then be had to frequent subcutaneous injection 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 863 

of normal saline fluid. Stimulants will be required to combat 
the tendency to cardiac failure ; they should not be resorted 
to at first, although they may be required by the second day. 

The obstinate hiccough that sometimes occurs is difficult to 
treat. In some cases it may be relieved by solid food, such as dry 
biscuits. Occasionally what is known as the " prairie oyster " has 
a good effect. It is made by turning out the unbroken yolk of 
an egg into a wineglass, into which a teaspoonful of Worcester 
sauce and half a teaspoonful of whisky have been poured. The 
unbroken yolk should be well covered with black pepper. The 
wineglass is then rotated so that the whole surface of the yolk 
is wet with the sauce. The yolk should then be swallowed 
whole. 

If food be retained it is well digested. During convalescence 
a light ordinary diet can be adopted. No restrictions, beyond 
care as regards the amount, quality and digestibility of the 
food (so as not to cause any attacks of dyspepsia or gastric 
dilatation) need be enforced. 



YELLOW FEVER 

In this disease gastric irritability, shown at first by acid 
vomiting and later in the grave cases by the vomiting of altered 
blood black vomit, is usually present. The early vomit may 
be bilious, or consist simply of more or less digested food. The 
later vomits are excessively acid. Strength must be maintained 
and fluids should be freely supplied to combat the tendency to 
suppression of urine. Haemorrhage occurs readily from all 
mucous surfaces, and therefore rectal alimentation cannot be 
relied on. 

The method of administration of food is important. It 
must not be in a solid or too concentrated a form and should 
be given frequently in very small quantities and well iced. 
Milk well diluted, preferably with soda-water, to which is added 
some carbonate of soda, 2 grains to the ounce, is as suitable as 
any. Iced soups, coffee and stimulants in the form of a light 
white wine, may be given. 

The intense congestion that is present in the mucous mem- 



864 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

branes during the acute stage of the disease may pass off rapidly, 
but it does not always do so. A strict and very spare diet 
therefore must be maintained for at least a week after 
apparent convalescence, the amount given at a time being 
gradually and cautiously increased. 



RELAPSING FEVER 

During the febrile paroxysm, which lasts up to a week, light 
fluid diet only can be taken. The tendency to collapse at the 
time of the crisis renders it necessary that nourishment be 
systematically administered. Towards the end of the fifth or 
sixth day when the crisis may be expected, stimulants are neces- 
sary, and may have to be given in large quantities if marked 
collapse occurs. 

The jaundice, so common during the attack, will disappear 
spontaneously ; the critical diarrhoea, though often dysen- 
teric in character, will also subside soon after the crisis. 
When purging ceases, ordinary light diet may be resumed 
till the next febrile attack. Constipation, as well as vomiting, 
usually precedes and is associated with the onset of the fever, 
so that towards the time when relapse is due a return to fluid 
diet is indicated. 



DENGUE FEVER 

No special diet is necessary. The ordinary dietetic treat- 
ment of a febrile condition may be followed. If the articular 
pains are severe or persistent, meat should be avoided. 



MALTA FEVER 

A liberal dietary is requisite as this irregular fever may 
last for months or even years, and great debility and anaemia 
ensue. When the temperature is high, fluid diet only can be 
taken, but as soon as possible this must be supplemented with 
eggs, fish, and light farinaceous food. Meat must be avoided, 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 865 

and also heavy meals, even during the intervals when there is 
little or no pyrexia, as any gastro-intestinal disturbance may 
precipitate a relapse. 

Prevention. In visiting any port where Malta fever is 
endemic practically most ports on the Mediterranean special 
precautions with regard to milk are necessary. Cows' milk is 
safe ; but as goats' milk is so largely used in these places, it 
should be made a rule that only boiled milk be consumed. It 
is advisable during brief visits not to take milk at all not even 
with tea or coffee unless thorough boiling can be relied on. 



KALA AZAR AND TKYPANOSOMIASIS 

In these chronic febrile conditions, no special diet is required. 
Although light, the food must be abundant, nutritious, and 
varied, as in both diseases wasting and debility occur. In the 
apyrexial periods, solid food can be taken with impunity, but 
it should not be bulky or indigestible. In the later stages of 
kala azar, there may be intestinal ulceration or simply diarrhoea ; 
in such cases, or even at an earlier stage, if intestinal symptoms 
are present, a light fluid diet, mainly of milk and barley-water, 
arrowroot, etc., should be adopted. 



BERI-BERI 

Diet in beri-beri has to be considered mainly as to its effect 
in causing any embarrassment of the heart. The nerve supply 
to the stomach is usually impaired, and there is a great tendency 
to dilatation of that organ. This may occur however carefully 
the patient is fed, and will increase the tendency to the cardiac 
failure which is the usual cause of death in this disease. 

Therefore, bulky food and any food which is likely to remain 
long in the stomach and be slowly digested must be avoided. 
In serious cases milk, mixed with barley-water in equal parts 
and given in small quantities at a time, is the safest diet. Soda- 
water should not be given with the milk. Egg and milk is a 
good mixture. Strong soups or broths given in small quan- 

55 



866 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

titles are also permissible. Bulky farinaceous foods, such as 
rice and potatoes, should not be given, even when -the acute 
stage appears to have been passed. Milky puddings, custards, 
and bread may be added to the diet as the acute symptoms 
pass away ; when convalescence sets in fish, eggs, meat and 
small quantities of potatoes (mashed) may be added. Even 
for a convalescent the total amount of food or fluid taken at a 
time must be carefully regulated, seeing that some impairment 
of the innervation both of the heart and the stomach may still 
be present. 

As the actual bulk of ingested material is so important in 
serious cases of beri-beri, the restrictions as to the amount taken 
must be extended to fluids as well as solids, even to water. The 
patient must never be allowed free access to food or fluid of any 
kind. An additional reason for restriction of fluid lies in the 
circumstance that in all cases there is more or less oadema, and 
in some an excess of fluid in the serous cavities, slight it may 
be in some cases but excessive in others. Some authorities 
attach much importance to the restriction of the total 
amount of fluid, as well as to the amount given at a time. 
One pint of fluid in twenty-four hours is by them considered to 
be sufficient. 

Vomiting in this disease is usually a sign of a fatal termina- 
tion. It is not so, however, from anything special about the 
vomiting, but as an indication of the extent of the nerve lesions, 
especially as regards implication of the pneumogastric. 

In many cases there is marked congestion of the mucous 
membrane of the stomach and intestines, and also of all the 
abdominal viscera and particularly of the liver. The degree 
of congestion is greater than can be attributed merely to back 
pressure from cardiac dilatation and failure ; it is probably 
due to a combination of this and of vasomotor paralysis. The 
condition, however, renders the restriction of diet and the avoid- 
ance of any irritating foods, stimulants or drugs, still more 
necessary. 

A further reason against the use of rice as an article of food 
in beri-beri, is that there is some reason to suspect that the 
poison which causes the neuritis is contained in certain kinds of 



rice, and that the injurious effects in acute cases are not due 
merely to the bulkiness of this food. 

In the case of Europeans it is mainly on board ship that 
beri-beri occurs. Usually, under such circumstances, there is 
little choice of diet. 

As compared to Europeans beri-beri is much more common 
amongst the coloured races, and particularly amongst rice 
eating natives, such as the Chinese. Economical considerations, 
as well as the craving that such people have for rice, may render 
it impossible to prevent its use to some extent after the 
acute symptoms have subsided. Under such circumstances, 
it is better to allow only freshly husked rice or such rice 
as has been previously treated in the Indian manner by boiling 
or steaming on garnering and before husking. In these forms 
it is considered by some that rice does not contain the toxin 
of beri-beri. Cheap bread and biscuits are sometimes made in 
part with rice instead of wheat flour, and must therefore be 
viewed with some suspicion when they become a staple of diet, 
as on board ship and in large institutions. In beri-beri coun- 
tries the dietaries in fleets, military camps, gaols, mining camps, 
schools and charitable institutions must be so arranged that 
they shall include an adequate amount of nitrogenous and 
fatty material and fresh vegetables. 

ANCHYLOSTOMIASIS 

In uncomplicated cases, no special dieting is required except 
that preliminary to the treatment for expulsion of the worms. 
The patient after treatment should be well fed ; a liberal diet 
including meat is indicated. In some cases, undigested food is 
passed per rectum, probably as a consequence of catarrhal enteritis 
or of fatty degeneration of the pancreas. In such cases, careful 
dieting may be necessary. Meat finely divided and lightly 
cooked may be better digested than the same article of diet 
cooked in the ordinary manner. Milk diluted with barley- 
water, so that only small curds are formed, may be given ; 
if this is not properly digested it should be peptonized or pan- 
creatized. 



868 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

The dieting preliminary to the active treatment for the 
expulsion of the worms varies to some extent with the anthel- 
mintic to be employed. In all cases, however, the diet should 
be light and mainly fluid for forty-eight hours before the treat- 
ment is commenced, and no food should be taken for twelve 
hours before the anthelmintic is administered. Usually the last 
meal is taken at 6 p.m., and no food is given till after the full 
course of the drug treatment has been carried out early on the 
following morning. 

If the anthelmintic selected has been thymol, no alcohol 
and no oils should be given before, or for at least twelve hours 
after, the exhibition of the drug. 

FILARIASIS 

In the febrile conditions associated with this group of diseases 
light fever diet is all that is required, or that the patient would 
care to take. 

In chyluria the amount of discharge in the urine and the 
milkiness of it vary with the character of the food taken. A 
too fatty diet, therefore, should be avoided, as it distresses the 
patient without benefiting him in the least. Repair of the 
ruptured lymphatic, which is the immediate cause of the pre- 
sence of the chyle in the urine, is facilitated by temporarily 
eliminating all fatty material from the diet, and restricting the 
intake of fluid. 



BILHARZIASIS 

The actual discharge of blood is due to local lesions, and no 
special dieting is required in many cases. It is, however, so 
often associated with cystitis and still more frequently with 
irritability of the vesical mucous membrane, that those articles 
of diet which act as stimulants or irritants of the bladder wall 
should be avoided. Red meats, alcohol, salted meats, coffee, 
vegetables containing oxalates, very acid fruits, spices, etc., 
should be interdicted and a diet such as would be suitable in 
chronic cystitis habitually observed. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 869 

PLAGUE 

During the acute stages of the disease food in a concentrated 
fluid form such as strong soups, broths, and milk should be 
given. As cardiac failure may occur during convalescence, 
stimulants must be administered early, and increased when 
cardiac failure appears imminent. The patient requires good 
nourishing food during convalescence, but it must be given in 
small quantities so as to avoid any over-distension of the stomach. 

During an epidemic all articles of food must be carefully 
preserved from contamination by rats, as the plague bacillus 
may be introduced by the mouth and infection may take place 
through trivial lesions in the buccal or intestinal mucosa. Such 
contamination is prevented by keeping the food in a rat-proof 
store. During an epidemic, also, all the food should be thor- 
oughly well cooked so as to destroy any plague bacilli which 
may have found access to it. 



GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISEASES 

General principles. Regulation of the dietary plays an 
important, if not the most important, part in the management 
of the various morbid conditions to which the alimentary canal 
is so peculiarly prone in the tropics, and which constitute a 
principal feature in tropical pathology. Although in conse- 
quence of diversity in the circumstances of the individual cases, 
as well as of the diseases and in the degree of their severity, the 
details of dieting and management necessarily vary, there are 
certain general principles which serve as guides in elaborating 
these details. In proportion to the care and thoroughness 
with which these principles are applied will be the success 
of the practitioner. 

In treating the diseases of the alimentary canal the condition 
and functions of the affected organs must ever be kept in view, 
and this more especially when the physician is directing the 
dietetic part of the treatment. He must not be influenced too 
much by the name of the disease ; he must rather picture to 
himself the exact physical condition of the affected organs, 



870 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

recognizing that they are congested, inflamed, or ulcerated and, 
it may be, functionally perverted. At the same time he must 
not forget that their operation is necessary for the nutrition of 
the body ; and, seeing that the diseased organs themselves are 
a part of the body, he must bear in mind that their recovery 
cannot be effected unless they themselves, as part of that whole, 
are also adequately nourished. 

Such considerations suggest the leading indications for the 
dietetic as well as for the more strictly therapeutic manage- 
ment of the various forms of acute and chronic disease of the 
alimentary canal special to the tropics, and of which intestinal 
flux is usually a leading clinical feature. These indications 
may be summarized as follows 

1. The removal or suppression by drugs quinine, ipecacu- 
anha, calomel, purgatives, antiseptics, anthelmintics, etc. of 
such specific organisms as are either the primary and sole cause 
of the disease, or which may be contributory agents in the pro- 
duction of and continuance of secondary morbid conditions. 

2. Rest of the affected organs so far as is consistent with 

3. Adequate local and general nutrition. 

It is with the second and third alone of these indications 
that we are here concerned. They are best met, first, by the 
selection of the appropriate kind, quality and amount of food ; 
and, second, by insisting on warmth and strict rest in bed in 
order to allow of reduction of the amount of that food to the 
lowest possible minimum compatible with the general and 
local physiological necessities. These are golden rules for the 
management of the grave tropical intestinal fluxes, whether 
acute or chronic ; they can seldom be disregarded with impunity. 



CHOLERA 

During the acute stage of cholera food is out of the question. 
If swallowed and retained it can only do harm, for in the con- 
dition of the stomach at this period of the disease digestion and 
absorption are in abeyance and all foods, whether liquid or 
solid, are no better than foreign bodies ; their administration 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 871 

therefore can only do harm. Water is the only thing permis- 
sible. This may be drunk ad libitum. If absorbed, even in 
small amount, it will help to dilute the thickened blood and 
flush the kidneys ; if vomited it will carry out with it myriads 
of cholera vibrios and their products and to that extent pro- 
portionately improve the chances of recovery. If the patient 
can be got to take the water he craves for slightly warmed so 
much the better. 

At a later stage of the disease when vomiting and purging 
subside and the pulse is returning and when urine begins to 
be secreted the question of food and drink becomes important. 
The epithelial layer of stomach and intestine has been com- 
pletely shed, the blood vessels are nearly empty, the patient is 
in a state of collapse or of great prostration. In such circum- 
stances to give food or stimulant in large amounts would only 
tend to interfere with the process of repair necessary for re- 
establishment of the digestive and absorbing faculties, and 
would very likely precipitate a severe gastro-enteritis. Food 
and fluid, therefore, must be very cautiously introduced. Milk, 
peptonized if possible, and freely diluted, thin barley or rice 
water, egg-albumin water, and very weak chicken, mutton or 
beef-tea are indicated, beginning with teaspoonfuls every quarter 
of an hour and gradually increasing the amount and strength, 
the interval between the feeds being at the same time lengthened 
pari passu with the Improvement in the condition of the patient. 
But there must be no attempt to force feeding or at returning 
to solid food, more especially if there be indications in the 
form of the slimy or bloody stools of enteritis. Until all such 
evidences of enteritis have completely disappeared, and appetite 
and digestion are thoroughly re-established, solid food must be 
withheld, and even then care must be exercised for a time, 
both as regards the quality and quantity of the meals. 

Should the condition known as cholera typhoid supervene 
on the acute stage of the disease, fluid diet of as nutritious and 
concentrated a character as can be digested and at the same 
time not aggravate any existing enteritis, must be sedulously 
administered every two or three hours, or at shorter intervals, day 
and night. If the urine is scanty or suppressed, the patient should 



872 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

be encouraged to drink water freely but not in such quantity 
as to induce vomiting. If vomiting is present, the water should 
be given by enema of weak salt and water, a teaspoonful of the 
former to a pint of the latter ; or, if this be rejected, by sub- 
cutaneous or intravenous injection of sterilized physiological 
salt solution. Wine or other alcoholic stimulants may have 
to be given ; they should be well diluted and administered in 
small amounts at short intervals. 

In all cases of recovery from cholera the return to ordinary 
diet should be gradually effected. 

During an outbreak of cholera great care should be taken 
to avoid any articles of food that would cause dyspepsia or 
reduce the normal acidity of the stomach contents. For this 
reason, fruits should be taken in great moderation or not at 
all. Melons are by some believed to be particularly unsuitable 
and to predispose to an attack. As water passes through 
the stomach without exciting secretion of acid it should not 
be taken between meals, and not in large quantities with 
them. In all circumstances it should be thoroughly and 
recently boiled and not filtered afterwards. 



ACUTE DYSENTERY 

In the suddenly developed and urgent types of dysentery 
usually bacillary in origin it is advisable, unless the patient 
from some special cause, such as starvation, is in a very prostrate 
condition, to withhold all food with the exception of very thin 
barley-water or rice-water for the first twenty-four or thirty-six 
hours, and until the first burst of the disease has to some extent 
spent itself. Fluid, however, must be supplied and may be given 
as plain water, or egg-albumin water, or in the form of the highly 
diluted farinaceous drinks mentioned. It is important that the 
amount administered at a time be small and, also, that it be at an 
appropriate temperature. Large draughts of fluid, especially of 
very hot or very cold fluid, tend to provoke peristalsis and 
thereby irritate the inflamed colon and aggravate the tenesmus 
and tormina from which the patient is doubtless suffering. It 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 873 

is advisable, therefore, during the first day or two of acute dysen- 
tery to direct that the patient shall receive a wineglassful of 
slightly warmed fluid of the description named every two hours, 
that it be administered in teaspoonfuls, and that no other food 
or drink whatever should pass the lips. 

By the second or third day of the disease provision will have 
to be made for the regular and adequate nutrition of the patient. 
In arranging for this the state of the colon inflamed, possibly 
about to ulcerate or slough must ever be present to the prac- 
titioner's mind. It must be kept at rest as far as possible, and 
irritated by the passage of faeces as little as possible. Usually 
at this early stage of acute dysentery the entire alimentary 
tract apart from the colon is in a state of catarrh, the tongue 
coated, the gastric digestion feeble. It is evident, therefore, 
that liquid diet has to be continued, and it becomes an urgent 
question as to what form of liquid diet is the best. 

Experience has generally shown that so long as the tongue 
is thickly coated, milk unless highly diluted is not well digested, 
curd appearing in the stools and doubtless aggravating the 
griping and purging. As a rule, until the tongue cleans, barley 
water, rice water, egg-albumin water, very thin chicken or mutton 
broth, rice or barley water in which chicken has been boiled, 
or chicken jelly constitute the most appropriate foods, the pre- 
cautions already mentioned as regards quantity and tempera- 
ture being observed. When the tongue has cleaned and when 
it may be inferred that gastric digestion has improved, milk, at 
first well diluted and peptonized, or raw egg and milk may be 
gradually introduced, and along with rice or barley-water should 
constitute for many days the staple and only food. As an all 
round food in dysentery, whether acute or chronic, when it is 
desired to give the patient the maximum amount of nourish- 
ment with the minimum amount of irritation, there is no food 
better adapted or more readily procurable than milk and rice 
or barley-water, in the proportion of two of the former to one 
of the latter. If desired a little salt may be added, or the mix- 
ture may be peptonized. It should be given slightly warmed, 
sipped with a teaspoon, and in quantities of from 5 to 10 oz. every 
two or three hours. If the monotony of this diet is complained 



874 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

of, one of the many malted foods on the market may be given 
occasionally as a substitute. 

Later, as the stools improve and are free from blood, well 
boiled arrowroot, cornstarch, semolina, tapioca, revalenta and 
the like may be added. When the stools are formed hot milk 
and bread, chicken panada, rusk, boiled white fish, underdone 
egg, custard, light milky pudding, and well boiled rice will gradu- 
ally pave the way to a slow return to ordinary diet. Fresh 
vegetables sooner or later are a necessary element in every 
dietary, but their introduction into that of the dysenteric patient 
must be cautiously effected. Coarse vegetables of the cabbage 
kind are injurious. Well boiled, mashed and then baked potato, 
stewed or roasted apple, well boiled Spanish onion, and fresh 
cauliflower appear to be the most suitable. They must not be 
given in large quantity, and their influence on the stools must 
be carefully watched. 

For a long time after convalescence has been thoroughly 
established the diet must be attended to and carefully restricted 
as to quantity as well as to kind. Red meat and alcohol in 
every form must be sedulously avoided, as well as the coarser 
foods such as are mentioned under the section of chronic dysen- 
tery. On a threat no matter how trifling of relapse all solid 
food must be at once discontinued, and a milk and barley or 
rice-water diet resumed, together with rest and warmth and 
appropriate medicinal treatment. 



CHRONIC DYSENTERY 

For some time after recovery from acute dysentery, and in 
the various types of sub-acute relapsing dysentery and of chronic 
dysentery of tropical origin, and which are usually associated 
with the presence of Entamosba histolytica in the stools, diet 
is of the utmost importance, but, unfortunately, to lay down 
a dietary which would be suitable to every case is impossible. 
Almost every case has its special features requiring consideration ; 
hard and fast rules, therefore, are not applicable. In regulating 
the diet of these cases the effect of the various foods we intro- 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 875 

duce should be watched most carefully, not only on the stools 
which, if possible, should be inspected daily, but also on the 
general nutrition of the patient. 

Idiosyncrasies in the matter of food are not uncommon and 
have to be taken into account. Mental peculiarities have also 
to be considered and care may have to be exercised by avoiding 
a too sedulous interest in every little article of diet, or by too 
particular an inspection of the stools, to avoid fostering, or 
creating even, hypochondriacal tendencies not at all uncommon 
in chronic dysenteries. Some patients attach little importance 
to a moderate degree of chronic dysentery and consequently 
may be foolishly careless ; on the other hand, there are not a 
few who become morbidly sensitive about the slightest irregu- 
larity, whether it be in the colour, consistence or smell of their 
dejecta, and are thrown into a fever of alarm by the appearance 
of the slightest looseness or streak of slime. Such people are 
apt to become a nuisance to the physician and a burden to them- 
selves. They are over-careful. They live by theory ; ignoring 
the promptings of their natural appetite they not infrequently 
land themselves in a condition of physiological starvation far 
from conducive to recovery. Patients with this tendency 
should not be instructed to watch their stools ; they should be 
instructed rather to attend to a reasonable extent to any healthy 
natural appetite they may develop. 

Circumstances may compel some chronic dysenteries to 
work hard, whereas others may be under no such obligation ; 
some may be naturally robust, others delicate ; some, apart 
from the disease of the bowel, may be constitutionally sound, 
others may be the subjects of tuberculosis, syphilis, malaria 
and so forth. The possibility of the existence of hepatic abscess 
must also be borne in mind. In prescribing a dietary in chronic 
dysentery all these things have to be considered and allowed 
for. 

There are certain drinks and foods which all chronic dysen- 
teries should avoid. Chief of these is alcohol ; this, under every 
form, unless in very exceptional circumstances, should be strictly 
forbidden. Partially fermented drinks, such as gingerbeer, 
and sweet effervescing drinks, as bottled lemonade, perry, and 



876 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

so forth are dangerous ; strong tea and black coffee are in the 
same category. Iced drinks or large draughts of fluid, especially 
at meal times, should also be avoided. 

The following articles of food are generally inadmissible : 
Rich soups, strong beef-tea ; oily fish such as salmon, trout, eel, 
mackerel, herring, smelt ; shell fish such as lobster, crab, shrimp, 
prawn ; dried, salted or otherwise preserved fish such as Bombay 
duck, smoked salmon, red herring, dried haddock, salted cod, 
sardines ; red meats as beef, mutton, pork, venison, hare ; all 
birds of the duck tribe as duck, goose ; rich sauces, curries, 
potted or otherwise preserved meats ; coarse vegetables such 
as cabbage, Brussels sprouts ; dense vegetables such as peas, 
beans, carrots ; nuts of all kinds ; raw vegetables and salads ; 
dried, candied, or otherwise preserved fruits such as raisins, 
currants, orange peel, crystallized fruit, preserved ginger, jams 
and pickles. 

Although interdicting certain foods, in prescribing a dietary 
in chronic dysentery, we must bear in mind that the disease 
may run a very long course, and that too monotonous or re- 
stricted a diet if persisted in for many weeks or months may 
induce scorbutic conditions, or, if not actual scurvy, at all events 
depraved conditions of nutrition not conducive to recovery. 
It will generally be found that these cases do best on a mixed 
diet with short courses of a more rigid dieting and more energetic 
medicinal treatment interpolated from time to time. 

Thus in those cases of chronic or recurring tropical dysentery 
so frequent among our countrymen from India, if the general 
condition be fairly satisfactory, and if there be no evidence of 
liver abscess or of tuberculosis of an advanced character, we may 
prescribe with advantage a course of ipecacuanha hi large doses. 
At the same time we insist on rest in bed and a diet of milk and 
barley-water only, to the amount of 3 pints in the twenty-four 
hours. This course of active treatment is to be continued for 
a week or ten days. Thereafter the diet should be gradually 
changed and eggs, rusks or thin toast, arrowroot, well boiled 
rice, chicken broth, boiled fish, pounded chicken, mashed potato, 
milky pudding, stewed apple and so forth gradually introduced, 
one article at a time. So soon as it is found that the patient 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 877 

on this increasing diet has begun to gain weight the further 
increase of food is suspended as being unnecessary, but care 
must be taken to vary as much as possible the kind of food and 
the way in which it is cooked. A rule of great importance 
should be insisted on, namely, that food must never be taken 
in the absence of appetite. 

As effective mastication is indispensable the physician must 
see to the teeth and gums, and the services of the dentist be 
invoked if indicated. Oral sepsis must be corrected. 

In time some such diet as the following may be gradually 
worked up to : Breakfast : One or more of the following : Hot 
milk and toast or bread, lightly cooked egg, boiled sole or other 
white fish, thin toast, rusk or pulled bread, a little fresh butter, 
small cup of weak China tea or of chocolate. Lunch : Slice of 
fowl with bread sauce, or a piece of boiled fish, mashed potato, 
cauliflower, milky pudding or stewed apples. Five o'clock : 
A glass of milk and a rusk. Dinner : The same as lunch. Bed 
time : A glass of hot water, or of hot milk, or a cup of some 
malted food. Small quantities of fresh fruit may be taken, in 
many instances with great advantage. 

On such a diet the patient may thrive and gain weight. 
Should this prove to be the case there must be no undue haste 
to change the regimen ; at the same time, when any particular 
article of food begins to pall a substitute should be found, a 
too rigid monotony being carefully avoided. In some very 
chronic and persistent cases with marked tendency to relapse a 
good plan is regularly, and as a matter of routine, to suspend the 
mixed diet for one day a week, give the patient some mild aperient 
and place him for twenty-four hours on milk and barley-water 
only. Relapse is anticipated in this way, and it may be averted. 

Whenever a relapse is threatened the diet of milk and barley- 
water must be at once resumed, the patient being sent to bed 
and active medicinal treatment instituted. By prompt action 
of this description and by persistent care in the feeding and 
general hygiene, most chronic dysenteries can be got rid of, 
if not promptly, at all events in time. 

Other methods of dieting will be alluded to in the section 
on sprue. 



878 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

There is one fact, with important practical bearings, that is too 
generally overlooked in the management of the various forms of 
dysentery, namely, the capacity for prolonged latency possessed 
by the germs responsible for the specific lesion. Once estab- 
lished in the colon these germs may be difficult to uproot 
completely ; especially is this the case with the amoeba. A well 
directed treatment may have brought about apparent recovery, 
but on slight provocation, i.e. anything tending to cause intestinal 
irritation or congestion, such as alcohol, strong coffee, bad food, in- 
appropriate food, too much food, especially red meat, chill, etc., the 
parasite may find its opportunity in the irritated tissues or deranged 
secretions, and after perhaps months or even years of quiescence 
once more start into activity and produce dysenteric lesions 
and symptoms. In some cases there appears to be a rough 
periodicity about the recurring relapses, as if these were deter- 
mined by definite periodical biological changes in the parasite. 
In time, as with the malaria parasite, the infection appears to 
die out, but as in many cases this may be a long time, several 
years, one cannot be too careful in pronouncing a chronic dysen- 
tery as cured, or in relaxing dietetic and other precautions. 

SPRUE 

In no other disease is it more necessary to enforce the prin- 
ciples of physiological rest together with an adequate supply 
of digestible non-irritating food than in sprue. The patients, 
as a rule, are wasted and anaemic, the mucosa of the alimentary 
canal from mouth to anus is inflamed, eroded in places and 
exquisitively sensitive, the stomach and intestine are distended 
with gas, the glandular and absorbing tissues of the bowels are 
inflamed and perhaps partially destroyed, the muscular coats 
are wasted, the liver small, and the pancreatic and biliary ducts 
are catarrhal ; whilst the stools are pale, phenomenally abundant, 
fermenting, loaded with fat globules and air bubbles, and usually 
loose and frequent, especially so in the morning and early forenoon. 

The disease is very persistent and generally progressive and, 
unless arrested or cured, will terminate sooner or later in death 
by inanition, even if no secondary infection supervene. 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 870 

Experience has shown that drugs play an insignificant part 
in the management of this disease, which as regards the Euro- 
pean is one of the commonest and most fatal of tropical maladies. 
Its etiology is unknown. The specific germ, if there be one, 
has not been recognized, nor has any remedy which might be 
regarded as specific been discovered. Drugs, therefore, play 
a very secondary role in its management ; nevertheless, if pro- 
perly taken in hand and at a stage sufficiently early and before 
the digestive apparatus has been hopelessly destroyed, and if 
the patient is otherwise of sound constitution and under fifty 
years of age, much may be effected by proper treatment. 

Various methods of dieting have been advocated and are 
used either singly or in combination. They may be classified 
as follows : 

I. The milk diet. 
II. The meat diet. 

III. The fruit diet. 

IV. The mixed diet. 

I. The milk treatment Of these methods the most generally 
applicable and effective is the first the treatment by an exclu- 
sively milk diet. It ought always to be tried in the first instance. 
Its success depends, in great measure, on the strict observance of 
the minutest detail, a fact that must be thoroughly impressed on 
and apprehended by the patient and his responsible attendants. 

The patient is sent to bed in an airy sunny room, in which 
the temperature is kept uniformly above 60 Fahr. He should 
be clothed in flannel, and during the day when reading should 
wear a long sleeved shoulder wrap. The abdomen should be 
covered with a large cotton-wool pad firmly kept in position by 
a flannel binder. He must not be allowed to get up, but must 
use the bed pan when necessary. 

Should pyorrhoea alveolaris or other condition of oral sepsis 
be present, as is often the case in this disease, appropriate local 
treatment must be instituted. 

The bowels, in the first instance, had better be cleared by a 
small dose of castor oil or of pulvis rhei composita, the patient 
abstaining from all food pending the action of the aperient. 
Written directions are then given as follows. 



880 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

1. Fresh milk, slightly warmed, to be the only food and 
drink. 

2. The milk to be taken at intervals of two or of three hours, 
in divided quantities up to the aggregate amount of 3 pints in 
the twenty-four hours. 

3. The milk must never be drunk down hurriedly, but slowly 
sipped with a spoon or sucked through a straw or fine glass 
tube in imitation of the natural way of ingesting milk. 

4. After each feed the mouth must be rinsed out with an 
alkaline or antiseptic wash, and the teeth lightly brushed. 

5. Unless the patient is very weak sleep must not be disturbed 
for feeding purposes. 

6. If at any time there is a feeling of nausea or a want of 
appetite, one or more feeds should be intermitted. 

7. Throughout the treatment the patient's weight should 
be taken every three or four days and accurately recorded. 

If after a thorough trial of this treatment for a week there 
is no marked improvement, the diet must be modified. If, on 
the contrary, as is usually the case, improvement is marked 
attempts to increase the amount of milk must not be made too 
soon, not, indeed, till the patient clamours for more food and 
the motions are solid. In this case increments to the extent of 
half a pint per diem may be conceded every two or three days. 
When in this way the patient is taking 6 pints of milk, he usually 
begins to gain weight and may now be allowed to get on to the 
sofa or sit up for a few hours at a time, carefully clothed and in 
a warm room. Later, when he is on 7 or 8 pints a day, he may 
get out of doors on fine days with the usual precautions against 
chill, but he must not be allowed to take anything approaching 
active exercise. 

Not until six weeks after the stools are formed and the 
soreness of the mouth and the abdominal distension have dis- 
appeared may any attempt be made to add to the dietary. It 
is well to put this off as long as possible, preferably until some 
indication of bile has appeared in the stools. When it is deemed 
advisable to add to the dietary such additions must at first be 
made tentatively and in small quantities, a corresponding amount 
of milk being deducted and the effect on the tongue and stools 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 881 

carefully observed. Any tendency to relapse must be at once 
regarded as indicating that the added food is unsuitable or 
premature, in which event a gentle aperient should be given 
and the exclusively milk diet reverted to until the temporary 
disturbance has subsided. 

Provided that things are going well the following may be 
carefully introduced : Fruit, especially strawberries or bananas 
mashed up with a portion of the milk ; raw or underdone eggs ; 
well-boiled arrowroot, rice-water or barley-water ; rusk, crisp 
thin toast, or pulled bread ; custard, malted artificial food, 
stewed apple, chicken broth in which rice has been boiled and 
strained out ; pounded chicken, chicken cream or panada ; 
boiled sole or turbot ; boiled, mashed and afterwards baked 
potato ; and so gradually after several months reverting to 
regular meals and ordinary diet, but for a long time interdicting 
everything but the simplest and most digestible of food, and 
avoiding alcohol and beef, and unnecessary fluid at meals. 

As already directed, the patient's weight must be frequently 
and regularly ascertained with the view not merely of avoiding 
underfeeding, but of obviating, what is equally dangerous, over- 
feeding. There must be no attempt, as is so often done, at push- 
ing the milk or extras. A small weekly gain in weight of a 
pound or two indicates that nutrition is being efficiently con- 
ducted. To give more food in such circumstances is not merely 
unnecessary but it is dangerous, risking as it does an interruption 
of the physiological rest which our measures are directed to 
secure as far and as long as possible. For the same reason, as 
it obviates the necessity for large quantities of heat producing 
food, clothing should be warm ; and, because it obviates the 
necessity for muscle-forming food, exercise should be reduced 
to a minimum. It seems hardly necessary to insist on what 
seems so obvious, were it not that experience shows that it is 
in consequence of the ignoring of these rudimentary principles 
that the milk treatment so often fails, in some instances, to cure 
or, at all events, to ameliorate the disease. 

It sometimes happens that the milk treatment in this form 
fails from the outset ; symptoms instead of abating increase 
and the patient rapidly runs down hill ; or it may happen that 

56 



882 A SYSTEM OF DIET AND DIETETICS 

after a period of temporary improvement the milk seems no 
longer to suit him ; or, again, that it agrees with him so long 
as only 3 or 4 pints are consumed, but so soon as attempts are 
made to increase the amount diarrhoea and sore mouth return. 
Notwithstanding this apparent initial failure, it is inadvisable 
altogether to abandon the milk treatment without further 
effort. Reducing the amount, peptonizing or boiling the milk, 
diluting it with water or barley-water, condensing it by evapo- 
ration in a shallow dish placed on boiling water, and stirring 
the milk to prevent the formation of scum which should it 
form must be discarded, giving it in the form of skimmed 
milk, or koumiss, or whey, or buttermilk, or in some form of 
clotted milk may be tried. In one or other of those ways 
success is sometimes attained. Not infrequently the addition 
of a little fruit, especially of strawberries, succeeds when milk 
alone fails, and certainly should be tried when possible. 

In certain cases, so long as the total amount of milk consumed in 
the twenty-four hours does not exceed 3 or 4 pints, it is digested 
and absorbed, but whenever this inadequate amount is exceeded 
relapse occurs. In a proportion of instances the failure appears 
to depend on inadequate absorption of the watery element in 
the milk. In such instances the requisite amount of nourish- 
ment may be supplied by evaporating say 6 pints of milk to 
4 or 3. Recently the use of buttermilk, and of living lactic 
acid ferments, etc., introduced with each feed of milk, and 
in other ways have been strongly advocated in sprue and 
chronic dysentery. It is claimed that by acidifying the contents 
of the alimentary canal, these organisms suppress the bacteria 
of putrefaction and so, being themselves harmless, conduce to 
recovery. This method is well worth a trial when milk in its 
ordinary form has failed. 

One or other of these modifications of the milk treatment 
should be tried before the method is definitely abandoned. 
Should they fail one after the other, recourse must be had to 
some other method of feeding, the same careful observance 
of rest and warmth still being insisted on. 

IL The meat treatment. When it is deemed advisable to 
have recourse to this system of dieting, either from the outset 



DIET IN THE DISEASES OF HOT CLIMATES 883 

or in consequence of failure of the milk treatment, it is well to 
commence with teaspoonful, gradually increase^ to tableapoonf ul, 
doses of carefully prepared meat juice. If this is well borne 
scraped meat and, later, minced and lightly cooked meat may 
be gradually introduced. When the latter is given, the meat 
should be reduced to a pulp by repeated passages through a 
mincing machine and warmed by floating for five or ten minutes 
in a saucer placed on boiling water, the warming being repeated 
several times and until the meat loses its raw appearance. In 
this condition it is not unpalatable. 

At first an ounce or two of meat so prepared is given every 
three or four hours, but if it agrees the quantity should be gradually 
increased and the intervals between the meals lengthened, until 
a pound or more is consumed in the twenty-four hours in three 
or four meals. 

Very dry, thin, crisp toast may be added to these meals 
but water should not be drunk until at least two hours after the 
meal. It is advisable to give the water as hot as can be swal- 
lowed ; in no case should it be taken in large draughts at a time ; 
it must be sipped slowly. 

After several days or weeks of this diet it may be tempo- 
rarily suspended, and an attempt made once more to resume 
the milk or a mixed diet, but it is well to allow several hours to 
intervene between the abandonment of the one and the intro- 
duction of the other. When given together meat and milk 
seldom suit ; but alternating the two every few days sometimes 
proves successful when the prolonged insistence on one alone 
proves a failure. 

The return to normal diet after a course of meat treatment 
should be as gradual and tentative as after the milk treatment. 

HI. The fruit treatment One of the most important recent 
advances in the practical management of sprue is the intro- 
duction of the strawberry as an adjuvant to the milk treatment. 
A diet of milk and strawberries, the amounts of both being 
gradually raised to 6 pints of the former and 3 Ib. of the latter, 
together with the precautions already insisted on, constitutes 
on the whole the most generally successful treatment of sprue, 
sometimes, apparently, leading to a rapid and permanent cure. 



8S4 A SYSTEM OF DIET- AND DIETETICS 

When good strawberries are not obtainable the best, though 
a somewhat inferjpr, substitute is the banana. Only ripe fruit 
must be chosen ; rotten and unripe fruit being carefully rejected. 
The fruit must be reduced to a pulp and thoroughly incorporated 
with the milk. 

In Java, where sprue is endemic and particularly virulent, 
a diet of fruit alone is sometimes employed, and it is said with 
success. In Europe what is known as the grape cure is occa- 
sionally practised. 

In Java, when the fruit treatment is adopted most fruits, 
including bottled fruits, are allowed, the very acid fruits such 
as pineapples, the members of the citron family, and extremely 
fibrous, hard, or dense fruit alone being interdicted. No other 
food is permitted until all symptoms of the disease disappear 
or the treatment has proved manifestly unsuitable. We have 
had no experience of this apparently somewhat heroic method, 
but van der Burgh and others vouch for its efficacy in a proportion 
of cases that had resisted other methods. 

IV. The mixed diet treatment is a combination of the pre- 
ceding methods on the lines already indicated. 



HILL DIARRHCEA 

The treatment of hill diarrhoea is practically the same as for 
sprue. Bichloride of mercury is generally prescribed as an 
intestinal antiseptic, and the milk is peptonized or lactopeptin 
or ingluvin given along with it. The buttermilk or lactic acid 
ferment treatment seems worth a trial in this disease, for it is 
one in which bacterial decomposition of food is a specially pro- 
minent feature. 



INDEX 



Absorption, 87 

nutrition and digestion, physi- 
ology of, 71 
Acid dyspepsia, 506 

intoxication, 818 
Acidosis, 818 
Addison's disease, 649 
Agriculture and man's diet, 53 
period of migratory, 51 

period of stationary, 51 
Albene, 195 
Albumin, rectal absorption of, 287 

water, 243 

in fevers, 306 

Albuminuria, functional, 683 
Alcohol, action of, 16 

anaesthetic action of, 16 

and cardio- vascular system, 264 

and digestion, 260 

and insanity, 268 

and metabolism, 260 

and muscular system, 269 

and nervous system, 265 

as cardiac stimulant, 272 

as food, 258 

discovery of, 251 

dosage of, 280 

ethyl, preparation of, 251 

gout-inducing properties of, 428 

in diphtheria, 341 

in enteric fever, 318 

in gout, 426 

in health and disease, 251 

in influenza, 355 

in measles, 351 

in pneumonia, 590 

in tuberculosis, 373 

quantity permissible, 276 

secondary toxaemia of, 261 

therapeutics of, 278 

time to take, 277 
Alcoholic peripheral neuritis, diet 
in, 698 

885 



Alcoholism, chronic, effects of, 255 

degenerations from chronic, 262 
Alimentation, artificial methods of, 
283 

rectal, 283 
" American or percentage " method 

of modifying milk, 771 
Anaemia, pernicious, 635 
Anaemias, secondary, 641 

splenic, 639 
Anaesthetic action of alcohol, 16 

of cocaine, 17 

of morphine, 17 
Anchylostomiasis, 867 
Aneurism, 619 
Angina pectoris, 621 
Anorexia, tuberculous, diet in, 405 
Anorexia nervosa, 709 
Antitoxic serum and diphtheria, 

341 

Apes, frugiverous, 31 
Appendicitis, 562 
Arrowroot gruel, 243 
Arterio-sclerosis, 479 

diabetes associated with, 444 

personal factor in, 482 
Artificial methods of alimentation, 
283 

rearing of children and evolution, 

54 

Assimilation. 14 
Asthma, 580 



Bananina, 194 
Band's disease, 640 
Banting's diet, 464 
Barley-water, 24.S 
Beef juice, 243 

pulp, 244 

tea, 244 

in enteric fever, 312 
Benger's food in fevers, 306 



886 



INDEX 



Beri-beri, 865 

and rice, 856, 866 

Bile, composition of, 86 

Bilharziasis, 868 

Blackwater fever, 862 

Bottle-feeding and bottles, 762 

Breast-feeding, 744 

Breast milk, 743 

and cows' milk, differences be- 
tween, 750 
variations in, 745 

Bromose, 195 

Bronchitis, 582 

Broncho-pneumonia, 598 
in measles, 350 

Broths, 244 

Budin's method of infant feeding, 
775 

Bushuyev's dietary for enteric fever, 
327 

Calculous affections, diet in, 685 
Caloric value of food-stuffs, 111 
Calorie, 111 

Carbo-hydrate foods, 227 
Carbo-hydrates of diet, 4 
Carcinoma of stomach, diet in, 

532 

Cardiac stimulant, alcohol as, 278 
Cardio-vascular system and alcohol, 

264 

Carnivora, food of, 25 
Catalyzers, 77 
Caudle, 245 

Cerebro -spinal meningitis, 356 
Chicken cream, 635 
Chickenpox, 356 
Childhood, diet in, 792 
Chlorosis, 625 

constipation in, 632 

gastric ulcer in, 627, 629 

iron in, 631 
Cholera, 870 

typhoid, 871 
Chorea, 698 
Chromosomes, 254 
Cibicultural epoch, 50 
Cirrhosis of liver with ascites, 640 
Citrated milk, 779 
Civilization and cultivation of 

cereals, 62 

Clinical deductions on rectal feed- 
ing, 294 



Cocaine, anaesthetic action of, 17 
Cocos butter, 195 
Cod-liver oil hi rickets, 845 

in tuberculosis, 372 
Colic, mucous, 552 
Colitis, 549 
Condiments, 10 

Congenital pyloric stenosis, 833 
Constipation, diet in, 13, 551 

in children, 826 

in chlorosis, 632 

in enteric fever, 320 
Cookery, 38 

and agriculture, 51 

evolution of, 39 
Cooking, antiquity of, 38 

effects of, 7, 127 
Cornflour mould, 245 
Cows' milk and breast milk, differ- 
ences between, 750 
Cows' milk, feeding with, 749 

modifications of, 752 

risks of bacterial contamination, 

756 

Cultivation of cereals and civiliza- 
tion, 52 
Cystic kidney, 684 

Degenerations from chronic alco- 
holism, 262 
Dengue fever, 864 
Diabetes, 441 

alimentary type of, 446 

associated with arterio-sclerosis, 
444 

composite, 442 

fat, 444 

pancreatic, 444 

renal lesions in, 448 
Diarrhoea, hill, 884 

in children, 822 

summer, of infants, 823 
Diarrhoeal diseases, diet in, 541 
Diet, change of, 10 

changes in man's, 56 

concentration of, 53 

conditions which influence, 154 

cures and special diets, 175 

during school life, 794 

during second year, 787 

epochs, 32 

experimental work on, results of, 
107 



INDEX 



887 



Diet for children in enteric fever, 

322 

Foster's, 189 
in arteriosclerosis, 479 
in cerebro-spinal meningitis, 356 
in chickenpox, 356 
in childhood, 792 
in constipation in enteric fever, 

320 

in convalescence from fevers, 307 
in diabetes, 441 
in diphtheria, 337 
in diseases of blood, 625 
in diseases of blood-forming or- 
gans, 625 

in diseases of children, 803 
in diseases of heart, 603 
in diseases of hot climates, 853 
in diseases of intestines, 541 
in diseases of kidneys, 655 
in diseases of liver, 569 
in diseases of lungs, 579 
in diseases of nervous system, 

693 

in diseases of pancreas, 575 
in diseases of stomach, 489 
in enteric fever, 308 

modifications of, 319 
in erysipelas, 356 
in fevers, 303 
in fevers, continued, 356 
in gout, 411 

acute, 424 

chronic, 425 
in gouty glycosuria and gouty 

diabetes, 426 
in haemoptysis, 400 
in haemorrhage in enteric fever, 

320 

in influenza, 354 
in marasmus, 808, 814 
in measles, 349 
in measles, German, 356 
in meteorism in enteric fever, 

320 

in mumps, 356 
in obesity, 455 
in old age, 731 
in relapsing fever, 356 
in rheumatism, acute, 435 

chronic, 436 

in rheumatoid arthritis, 436 
in scarlatina, 342 



Diet in scarlatinal complications, 

347 

in smallpox, 356 
in tuberculosis, 359 . 

of intestines, 402 
in typhus, 356 
in whooping cough, 351 
milk, in fevers, 305 
mixed, 21 

of infant after weaning, 784 
of man, proportions of food- 
stuffs required in, 138 
of primates below man, 30 
purin-free, 183 
in gout, 417 
Salisbury, 423 

standard, for tuberculosis, 367 
Diets, classification of, 4 

concentrated, for tuberculosis, 

391 
construction of, for tuberculosis, 

370 

graphic representation of, 121 
in health, construction of, 129 
in tuberculosis for leisured classes, 

373 

for working classes, 379 
large, for tuberculosis, 369 
standard, 151 

supervision of patients', in tuber- 
culosis, 404 

Dietary, ideal, historically con- 
sidered, 67 
typical, 6 
Dietetic treatment in tuberculosis 

generally, 360 
in tuberculosis of various organs, 

398 
Dieting of tuberculosis, general 

principles for, 363 
Digestibility of food-stuffs, 92 
Digestion, 73 

absorption and nutrition, physio- 
logy of, 71 
Digestive disorders in children, 

803 

Diphtheria, alcohol in, 341 
diet in, 337 

nasal feeding in, 338, 341 
vomiting in convalescence, 339 
Diphtheritic paralysis, feeding in, 

340 
Disease, nutrition in, 169 



888 



INDEX 



Diseases of blood, 625 

of blood-forming organs, 625 

of hot climates, 783 
Diuretic action of purin bodies, 17 
Drinks, artificial, 56 

artificial, of pre-cibiculturists, 49 

of pre-cibiculturists, 48 

in fevers, 307 
Duodenal ulcer, 505 
Dysentery, acute, 872 

chronic, 874 
Dyspepsia, 18 

acid, 506 

from micro-organisms, 20 

lactic acid treatment of, 21 

Early hunting period, 35 
Ebstein's diet, 465 
Eczema, 720 

infantile, 722 
Egg and brandy, 245 
Egg-nog, 245 
Emphysema, 599 
Enemata, Leube's, 284 

nutrient, 284 
Enteric fever, administration of 

water in, 334 
alcohol in, 318 
Bushuyev's dietary for, 327 
constipation in, 320 
convalescence from, 329 
diet for children in, 322 
diet in, 308 
drink during, 317 
empty bowel theory of, 331 
haemorrhage in, 320 
meteorism in, 320 
modifications of diet in, 319 
otitis media in, 315 
phlebitis in, 315 
" starvation temperature "in, 316 
starvation treatment in, 332 
temperature in convalescence and 

relapses, 315 

toilette of mouth in, 313 
*' traitement a vide," in, 333 
value of large quantities of water 

in, 334 

vomiting in, 321 
Williams' feeding in, 333 
Enteritis, tuberculous (hi children), 

828 
Enterokinase, 84 



Enterospasm, 555 

Epilepsy, 7J1 

Epoch, cibicultural, 50 

pre-cibicultural, 37 
Epochs, diet, 32 
Ergotism, 856 
Erysipelas, 356 
Erythemata, 723 
Evolving man, dietetic advances 

of, 33 
food of, 26 

" Evolution against alcohol," 256 
Evolution and changes in man's 

diet, 56 
of cookery, 39 
stages of man's, 33 
Excretion, 17 

Exophthalmic goitre, 611, 705 
Experimental work on diet, results 

of, 107 

Fat foods, 238 

rectal absorption of, 290 

subcutaneous injection of, 298 
Fats of diet, 4 
Fatigue, effect of, 20 
Feeding, breast, 744 

by stomach tube, 300 

forced, for tuberculosis, 369 

in tracheotomy and intubation, 
341 

mixed, of infants, 764 

nasal, in diphtheria, 338, 341 
in scarlatina, 343 

of infants and children in health, 
743 

of infants, regulations as to, 758 

subcutaneous, 296 

with cows' milk, 749 
Ferments, gastric, 76 

intestinal, 86 

pancreatic, 84 
Fever, blackwater, 862 

dengue, 864 

food, 816 

Malta, 864 

relapsing, 356, 864 

yellow, 863 
Fevers, albumin water in, 306 

assist elimination, 303 

continued, 356 

diet in, 303 

diet in acute stage of, 304 



INDEX 



8SO 



Fevers, diet in convalescence, 307 

drinks in, 307 

meat broths in, 306 

meat extracts in, 306 

meat juices in, 306 

milk diet in, 305 

protein preparations in, 306 

stimulation in, 308 

toilette of mouth in, 304 
Filariasis, 868 
Fish souffle, 635 
Flatulence, 534 
Food, cost of, 126 

definition of, 110 

experiments on, 3 

fever, 816 

materials, composition of, 115 

of evolving man, 26 

of monkeys, 30 

of pre-cibiculturists, 43 

-stuffs, digestibility of, 92 

seasonal rotation of, 63 
Foods, combination of, 239 

in anorexia, high fever, dysphagia, 
etc., in tuberculosis, direc- 
tions for preparation of, 396 

prepared from cows' milk, 218 

proprietary, 209 

pure, 211 
Frankland's artificial human milk, 

245 

Fromm's extract, 195 
Frugivora, food of, 25 
Fruitarian diet, 192 
Functional albuminuria, 683 
Fuster's diet, 189 



Gall-stones, 572 

Gastric lavage in pyloric stenosis, 
836 

juice, 79 

ulcer, 494 

in chlorosis, 627, 629 
Gastritis, 525 

Gastro-intestinal catarrh (in chil- 
dren), 808 

diseases (tropical), 869 
Gastroptosis, 524 
Gavage, 300 
Gelatin, 246 

General principles of diet, 3 
Glycosuria, alimentary, 441 



Glycosuria, gouty, and gouty dia- 
betes, 426 

intermittent, 441 
Goitre, exophthalmic, 611, 705 
Gout, acute, 424 

alcohol in, 426 

and excess of protein food, 414 

animal food in, 417 

diet in, 411 

maintenance of healthy alimen- 
tary tract in, 411 

mineral waters in, 433 

purin-free diet in, 186, 417 

simplicity of meals in, 421 

starchy and saccharine foods in, 
418 

vegetable food in, 418 
Gouty glycosuria and gouty dia- 
betes, 426 
Grape cure, 202 

Haemoptysis, 400 

Haemorrhoids, 564 

Hay fever, 599 

Heart, action of alcohol on, 262 
diseases and disorders, 603 
value of food-stuffs, 111 

Hemiplegia, 696 

Henoch's purpura, 648 

Herbivora, food of, 25 

Hill diarrhoea, 884 

Hirschfeld's diet, 465 

Hodgkin's disease, 644 

Hoffman's diet, 467 

Homo-simian period, 35 

Hormones, 81, 257 

Humanized milk, 774 

Hunting period, 35 

Hyperacidity, 506 

Hyperchlorhydria, 506 

Hyperpyrexia, alcohol in, 279 

Hypersecretion (of stomach), 515 

Imperial drink, > 24< > . 

Indigestion, chronic (in children), 

808 

Inebriety, racial effects of, 253 
Infant diet after weaning, T 4 
feeding, regulations as to, 758 

Budin's ineth-Hl of, 775 
Infantile scurvy. 846 
Infants, acute diarrhoea of, 823 



890 



INDEX 



Influenza, alcohol in, 355 
diet in, 354 

Insanity and alcohol, 268 

Intestines, diseases of, 541 

Intoxication, acid, 818 

Intubation and tracheotomy, feed- 
ing in, 341 

Ionic theory and radio-activity, as 
regards mineral springs, 432 

Iron in chlorosis, 631 

Jaundice, 569 
Junket, 246 

Kala azar, 865 

Kephir cure, 179 

Kidney, amyloid, diet in, 682 
granular, diet in, 678 
granular, in diabetes, 448 

Kidneys, diseases of, diet in, 655 

Kilocalorie, 111 

Koumiss cure, 179 

Lactated milk, 811 

Lactic acid treatment of dyspepsia, 

21 
Lacto-bacilline treatment, 182 

treatment (in children), 811 
Lacto-vegetarian diet, 192 
Lactose and laevulose, assimilation 

of, in diabetes, 446 
Lavage of stomach in pyloric 

stenosis, 836 
Lemonade, 246 
Leube's enemata, 284 
Leukaemias, 642 
Lichen .urtica^tus, 720 
Linear atrophy, 715 
Linseed tea, 246 

Liver and pancreas, diseases of, 569 
Liver, congestion of, 574 

hob-nailed, 262 

tropical, diet in, 574 
Lung, diseases of, 579 

Malaria, 861 
Malta fever, 864 

and goat'a milk, 858 
Mammalian diet, 25 
Man's diet and agriculture, 53 

diet, mixed, 3 
Marasmus, 808, 814 



Measles, alcohol in, 351 

diet in, 349 

German, diet in, 356 
Meat broths in fevers, 306 

diets, 188 

emulsion, raw, 247 

extracts, 229 
in fevers, 306 

foods, predigested, 235 

juices, 233 
in fevers, 306 

powders, dried, 238 
Meningitis, cerebro-spinal, 356 
Metabolism, 18 

experiments on, 5 

of function, 72 

of rectal feeding, 287 

of structure, 72 
Meteorism in enteric fever, 320 
Micrococcus militensis in goats' 

milk, 858 

Micro-organisms and dyspepsia, 20 
Milk, addition of cereals to, 782 

administration of in enteric fever, 
310 

citrated, 779 

condensed, 218 

cows', modifications of, 767 
with carbo-hydrate additions, 
225 

cure, 176 

humanized, 774 

laboratory, 771 

lactated, 811 

municipal, 774 

pasteurized, 770 

predigested, 781 

preparations, dried, 223 

sop, 776 

sterilized, 768 
Mineral matters of diet, 4 

springs, tonic theory and radio- 
activity as regards, 432 

substances, 165 

waters in gout, 433 
Monkeys, food of, 30 
Morphine, anaesthetic action of, 17 
Motor insufficiency and dilatation 

(of stomach), 518 
Muco-membranous colitis, 556 
Mucous colitis, 556 
Mumps, 356 
Municipal milk, 774 



IXDEX 



891 



Muscular system, action of alcohol 

on, 269 
Myelitis, 697 

Nephritis, acute, 666 
chronic, 670 

in diabetes, 448 
Nervous system, action of alcohol 

on, 265 

diseases of, 693 
Neurasthenia, 706 
Neuritis, peripheral alcoholic, 698 
Nitrogenous foods, 29 
Nursing, wet, 748 
Nut butter, 195 

meal, 195 
Nutarian diet, 192 
Nutrient enemata, 284 
Nutrition, 96 

digestion and absorption, phy- 
siology of, 71 
in disease, 169 
in fevers, 171 

Oatmeal gruel, 246 

porridge, 246 

water, 247 
Obesity, 455 

Obstruction, intestinal, 563 
Oertel's diet, 465 
Old age, diet in, 731 
Oven, underground, 39 
Oxaluria, diet in, 689 

Pancreatic diabetes, 444 

juice, 84 
Paralysis, diphtheritic, feeding in, 

340 

Pasteurized milk, 770 
Patent foods, 209 
Pellagra, 715 

and maize, 856 
Peptonized meat, 247 
" Percentage or American " method 

of modifying milk, 771 
Period, hunting, 35 

cibicultural, 50 

homo-simian, 35 

of migratory agriculture, 51 

of stationary agriculture, 51 

pre-cibicultural cookery, 37 

simian, 34 
Peripheral alcoholic neuritis, 698 



Peritonitis, tuberculous, 828 
Pernicious anaemia, 635 
Phlebitis in enteric fever, 315 
Physiology of digestion, absorption 

and nutrition, 71 
Plague, 869 
Plasmon in fevers, 306 
Pleurisy, 598 
Pneumonia, alcohol in, 590 

lobar, diet in, 588 
Pre-cibicultural cookery period, 37 

epoch, 34 

Pre-cibiculturiste, food of, 43 
Pre-cookery epoch, 34 
Predigested milk, 781 
Primates below man, food of, 30 
Proprietary foods, 209 
Prosecretin, 83 

Protein food, excess of, and gout, 412 
Protein preparations in fevers, 306 
Protein synthesis, 97 
Proteins of diet, 4 
Prlirigo, 720 
Pruritui, 719 
Psoriasis, 724 
Pulses, 196 
Purin bases, 183 
" Purin bodies," 14 

as stimulants, 16 

diuretic action of, 17 
Purin-free diet, 183 

diet, in gout, 186 
Purins, endogenous and exogenous, 

184 

Purinometer, 183 
Purpura, 647 

Henoch's, 648 
Pyelo-nephritis, 684 
Pyloric stenosis, congenital, 833 

Rectal absorption of albumin, 287 
of fat, 290 
of sugar, 292 
alimentation, 283 
feeding, clinical deductions, 294 

metabolism of, 287 
Relapsing fever, 356, 864 
Renal lesions in diabetes, 448 
Rheumatism, acute, 435 
chronic (fibroaitis), 436 
Rheumatoid arthritis. 436 
Rice and egg pudding. 1247 
pudding, 247 



892 



INDEX 



Rice-water, 247 

Rickets, 838 

cod-liver oil in, 845 

curative treatment of, 842 

dietary for, 845 

milk unboiled or boiled in, 844 

preventive treatment of, 839 

yolk of egg in, 846 

Salisbury diet, 188, 423, 466 
Saliva, 73 

Sanatogen in fevers, 306 
Savoury food, excitation of secre- 
tion by, 10 

Scarlatina anginosa, diet in, 343 
Scarlatina, diet in, 342 

diet in complications of, 347 

diets, restricted, in, 345 

septic, diet in, 343 

nasal feeding in, 343 
Schleicher's diet, 466 
School life, diet during, 794 
Schweninger's diet, 466 
Scurvy (in adults), 644 

(in children), 846 

acidosis theory of, 646 

curative treatment of, 848 

preventive treatment of, 847 

raw meat juice in, 849 
Seasonal rotation of food, 63 
Secretin, 11, 83 
Secretion, excitation of, by savoury 

food, 10 

Senility in alcoholism, 261 
Sickness, morning, of drunkard, 

262 

Simian period, 34 
Skin, diseases of, 715 
Smallpox, 356 
Somatose in fevers, 306 
Soup, clear, 245 
Splenic anaemias, 639 
Sprue, 878 
Sterilized milk, 768 
Stimulant, cardiac, alcohol as, 278 
Stimulants, 16 

of " purin " class, 17 
Stimulation in fevers, 307 
Stomach, carcinoma of, 532 

diseases of, 489 

disorders (in children), 805 

hyperacidity of, 506 

hypersecretion of, 515 



Stomach, motor insufficiency and 

dilatation of, 518 
Stomach tube, feeding by, 300 
Subcutaneous feeding, 296 
Succus entericus, 86 
Sugar, rectal absorption of, 292 

Tabes dorsalis, 697 
mesenterica, 828 
" Temescal " 49 
Therapeutics of alcohol, 278 
Thyroidal diseases, 649 
Toast water, 247 
Toilette of mouth in enteric fever, 

313 

Tracheotomy and intubation, feed- 
ing in, 341 
Training diet, 205 
" Traitement a vide " in enteric 

fever, 333 
Treacle posset, 247 
Trypanosomiasis, 865 
Tuberculosis, abdominal (in chil- 
dren), 828 
alcohol in, 373 
cod-liver oil in, 372 
diet in, 359 

diets, concentrated, 391 
construction of, 370 
for leisured classes, 373 
for working classes, 379 
dietetic treatment in, generally, 

360 
dieting of, general principles for, 

363 
foods in anorexia, high fever, 

dysphagia, etc., 396 
forced feeding, 369 
large diets for, 369 
of intestines, diet in, 402 
of various organs, dietetic treat- 
ment in, 398 
standard diet for, 367 
supervision of patients' diets hi, 

404 
Tuberculous enteritis (in children), 

828 

mesenteric glands in children, 828 
nephritis 684 
peritonitis in children, 828 

preventive treatment of, 829 
Tumell's diet, 203 
Typhus, 356 






Ulcer, duodenal, 505 

gastric, 494 

Uric acid, formation of, 185 
Urticaria, 719 

Vegetarianism , 192 
Vomiting, cyclic, 818 

periodic, 818 

recurrent, 818 
Von Noorden's diet, 467 

Water in health and disease, 158 
free administration of, in enteric 
fever, 334 



Water, therapeutic u*e* of, 49 
Weir-Mitchell diet, 204 
Wet nursing, 748 
Whey, 247 

cure, 178 

feeding (in infancy), 778 
Whooping cough, 351 
\Vine whey, 247 



Yellow fever, 863 



Zomo therapy, 189 



J pn 




AHVHfln 
OINOaOi dO IUSUHAINQ 



