Cobalt Souvenir 
and Cook Book 



A COLLECTION OF 

CHOICE TESTED RECIPES 

CONTRIBUTED AND COMPILED BY THE LADIES 

OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 

COBALT. ONTARIO 



<S&> 



FOR BOOKS APPLY TO 

LADIES' AID." PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 

COBALT. ONTARIO 



<^S=* 



1908-09 



COBAl_T NUOaer PR) 




BREAKFAST IN THE BUSH. 




THE MID-DAY MEAL. 






BISCUITS FOR TEA (Not Like Mother Used to Make). 




PROSPECTOR ON THE WINTER TRAIL. 



ousckccpcrs 

using the recipes in this 
book should 

Visit Moore's 
Drug Store 

and if the pies are not as good 
as mother' made, give " Hubby" 
a dose of 

Moore' s Celebrated 
Tonic Bitters 

Headquarters fop 

Kodak Supplies School Books 
Cobalt Souvenirs Magazines 

and a well assorted Library 
Also finest assortment of 

Toilet Requisites in "Silver Land" 
DRUGS— Wholesale and Retail 



C. H. MOORE 

On the Busy Corner, Cobalt 



SPECIAL WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



DRY MEASURE. 



One quart (full measure) sifted flour equals one pound. 

One pint (heaped) granulated sugar equals one pound. 

Two teacups (level) granulated sugar, equal one pound. 

Two teacups (well heaped) coffee or sugar equal one 
pound. 

One and one-third cups powdered sugar equal one pound. 

Two and one-half teacups (level) best brown sugar, 
equal one pound. 

Two teacups soft butter (well packed) equal one pound. 

One tablespoon (well rounded) soft butter equals one 
ounce. 

Three teaspoons equal one even tablespoon. 

Eight even tablespoons equal one gill. 

Four heaping tablespoons equal one gill. 

One dozen eggs should equal one and one-half pounds. 

Butter, size of an egg, equals two ounces. 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

Three even teaspoons equal one tablespoon. 
Two tablespoons equal one ounce. 
Pour ounces equal one gill. 
Ten ounces equal one cupful. 
Sixteen ounces equal one pint. 

PROPORTIONS. 

One teaspoon of salt to one quart of soup. 
One teaspoon of salt to two quarts of flour 
One teaspoon extract to a loaf of plain cake 
One teaspoon soda to one pint of sour milk. 
One teaspoon soda to one cup of molasses. 
One teaspoon baking powder to one cup of flour 

RULES GIVEN BY FRENCH COOK FOR TESTING HEAT 
OF OVEN. 

Try oven with a piece of white paper. If too hot the 
paper will become black or blaze up. If the paper becomes 
a light brown, oven is fit for pastry. If it becomes dark 
yellow, oven is fit for bread and heavier kinds of cake. If 

5 



it is light yellow, oven is ready for sponge cake and lighter 
kinds of desserts. 

TIME REQUIRED FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes, boiled, thirty to forty minutes. Potatoes, 
baked, about one hour. 

Asparagus, fifteen to thirty minutes. 

Spinach (use hot water) twenty minutes. 

Summer beets (use hot water) thirty to sixty minutes. 

Winter beets (soak in cold water) put in hot water to 
boil three hours. 

Green corn (use hot water) twenty minutes. 

Onions (use hot water) one to two hours. 

Summer squash (better steamed) three-quarters hour. 

Early peas (put in cold water) three-quarters hour. 

Turnips (cut in slices) forty-five minutes to one hour. 

Cabbage (boiled) one to two hours. 

Lima beans (hot water) one hour. 

Winter beans, one and one-half to two hours. 

Carrots, one to two hours. 

TOMATO SOUP (On Beef Stock). 

Take shank of beef and boil for two hours. Put in two 
onions, chopped, two sticks of celery and one can of toma- 
toes. Strain and add two teaspoons flour and water. Season 
to taste and serve. — A. K. McArthur. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Six medium-sized potatoes, three cups milk, half cup 
water, one and one-half small onions, three teaspoons salt, 
pinch pepper, three tablespoons dripping or butter. Boil po- 
tatoes till soft, drain and mash. Add milk, salt, pepper. 
Melt butter on saucepan, add flour and a little of the soup. 
Let this boil three minutes, add to soup, strain and serve 
v/ith crutons. — E. MacEwen. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart tomatoes, cooked and strained. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper and put on to boil. Into a 
quart( of milk put a tablespoon of butter and bring to the 
boiling point. Stir one teaspoon soda into the hot toma- 
to and add the hot milk and serve. A few cracker crumbs 
rray be added if desired - Mrs. Byrnes. 

6 



The Pandora Range 



No matter how good the recipe is, the 
most essential part of the success of the 
cake is the baking. 

A poor stove is not cheap at any price. 

The first cost of a coal stove does not 
make it cheap or expensive; it is the fuel 
it afterwards consumes and the repair bills 
that really make the difference. 

You may save |5 or $10 when buying a 
stove, by taking one which looks all right 
or very nice, but you cannot judge a stove 
entirely by appearance with any greater 
certainty than you can an individual. 
The grates, fire box, and flues are the 
heart and lungs of a range, and no 
matter how many excellent external feat- 
ures are embodied in its construction, sat- 
isfactory action and economy cannot be ob- 
tained if these vital parts are not scientifi- 
cally correct. If they are not, the first sav- 
ing of $5 or $10 will be eaten up in a sea- 
son or two. These features in the "Pandora" 
are the results of nearly 60 years' experi- 
ence. They are fully explained on Pages 3, 
4, and 6 of the "Pandora" catalogue, 
which we will mail to you for the asking. 

An elegant external appearance and com- 
pleteness of labor-saving devices combined 
with its successful working and durable in- 
ternal parts places the "Pandora" without 
a rival as a cooking and baking range. 



The George Taylor Hardware Co., Limited 

COBALT NEW LISKEARD MATHESON 

Sole A<ent» or tke amou» McClary Stoves aaJ Ranges in the 
Temiskaming District. 



DELICATE CELERY SOUP. 

Break three stalks celery into inch pieces and pound in 
a mortar. Cook twenty minutes in a double boiler with 
three cups of milk and a slice of onion. Melt three table- 
spoons butter and cook in it three tablespoons flour. Gradu- 
ally add one cup of cream and when boiling stir into the 
celery mixture. Strain and season, then serve immediately. 
—Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One pint oysters, one quart milk, one tablespoon butter, 
two rolled crackers, season with pepper and salt to taste. 
Bring all to the boiling point except the oysters. Add oys- 
ters, let come to boiling point as quickly as possible, and 
Serve at once. — Mrs. Byrnes. 

BAKED SALMON. 

One can salmon, two small onions, four soda biscuits. 
Place alternate layers of salmon, onions, rolled biscuits and 
butter in dish until amount required is used. Season with 
pepper and salt and bake in oven. — A. K. McArthur. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon (remove bones and oil), two eggs, two 
tablespoons milk, salt and pepper, four sifted soda bis- 
cuits, a small piece of butter. Make into a loaf and roll in 
two rolled biscuits. Bake half an hour. To be eaten cold, 
sliced thin. 

BAKED WHITEFISH. 

Clean and wash fish, wipe dry and rub inside with 
salt. Make a dressing as for chicken and stuff the fish, sew 
up and put in roasting pan with some hot water. Be sure 
to have the fish a nice brown when done. Allow about fif- 
teen minutes to a pound. — Mrs. Mortin. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Two dozen oysters, one tablespoon horseradish, one table- 
spoon vinegar or juice of two lemons, one tablespoon Wor- 
cester sauce, one tablespoon tomato catsup, half teaspoon 
tobasco sauce, half teaspoon salt. Chill oysters and sauce. 

8 



Allow three or four oysters to one or two tablespoons of 
sauce for each. Serve in glasses. 

SALMON A LA NEWBURG. 

One can of salmon boned, cream, one tablespoon butter, 
and one tablespoon flour. Add one cup of milk and salmon. 
While heating add one beaten egg. Flavor with sherry or 
lemon. Serve with toast. — Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

COD PISH BALLS. 

One cup shredded codfish, one teaspoon butter, two cups 
well mashed potatoes, one egg well beaten. Save a tea- 
spoonful of the egg, to which add a little water, then roll 
each ball in egg before rolling in flour. Fry nice brown. — 
Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

LEMON FISH SAUCE. 

Rub half-ounce butter to a cream, add yolks of two eggs 
and beat well, stir in juice of half lemon and salt and pep- 
per. When ready to serve, add half cup boiling water. Cook 
until thick custard. — A. K. McArthur. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Cut in nice pieces, season, dip in egg, throw in cracker 
crumbs. Have a lump of butter and lard mixed hot in pan. 
Put in meat and cook slowly. When nicely browned on both 
sides serve with rich brown gravy. — Mrs. H. Wallace. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds beef chopped fine, three eggs, two cups of 
bread crumbs, one cup sweet milk, one or one and one-half 
cups suet or butter, pepper, salt and sage to taste. Bake 
till leaves the pan. — Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds of chopped or minced beef, six soda crack- 
ers rolled fine, salt and pepper to taste, mix thoroughly, 
add one beaten egg, one cup hot water, butter size of an 
egg melted in hot water. Shape in loaf and bake one hour. 
■ — Mrs. J. Ralph Gordon. 

9 



The 

Cobalt 

Daily 

Nugget 



Cobalt, Ontario 



Send for a sample copy of our 
Illustrated Saturday Edition. 



CHICKEN FOR SANDWICHES. 

One-half teaspoon mustard, two eggs, one-half cup 
cream, one chicken boiled and chopped. Smooth mustard 
in beaten eggs, add salt and pepper. Mix chicken and cream 
and boil altogether for five minutes. Let cool and spread. — 
Mrs. J. Ralph Gordon. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds veal off the round, chop-ped fine, one cupful 
cracker crumbs, three eggs beaten, one tablespoon butter, 
one teaspoon salt, one level teaspoon sage, one level tea- 
spoon pepper, two tablespoons milk. Mix and bake one 
hour. While baking baste often with drawn butter, one table- 
spoon flour, with one slice butter and boiling water added 
to make sauce. — Mrs. Walker. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of uncooked veal minced fine, four soda 
biscuits crushed fine, one egg, one cup milk, butter size of 
an egg, one tablespoon each of salt and pepper, one tea- 
spoon of summer savory, half pound of uncooked ham, 
minced. Work all together, mold in shape of loaf, spread 
with butter and bake in slow oven for two and one-half 
hours, basting frequently. — J. M. Freer. 

SPANISH STEAK. 

Fry brown a medium-sized onion, add to this four to- 
matoes and two green peppers sliced thin and stew down to 
a thick sauce. Heat another pan, fry steak, place on hot 
platter and turn sauce into frying pan for two minutes. 
Pour over the steak and serve at once. — Mrs. Walker. 

ROAST BEEF AND POTATOES. 

Take a nice roast of beef. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, 
and a little flour. Place in pan with some boiling water. 
About half an hour before the meat is done put peeled po- 
tatoes in the pan with the roast. In fifteen minutes turn 
potatoes. Serve on a hot platter with the roast. — Mrs. 
B-'-nes. 

11 



BEEFSTEAK. 



Take porterhouse or sirloin steak, pound well and season 
with salt and pepper. Flour, patting the flour in well. Put 
suet or butter into a pan and when very hot, add the steak. 
Brown both sides quickly and then cook more slowly until 
done. — ^Mrs. Byrnes. 

CHICKEN OR TURKEY CROQUETTES. 

Scald a cup of rich milk in a double boiler, add one 
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour, rubbed smoothly 
together, and stir until thick. Season to taste and add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, add a pint of finely chopped 
chicken or turkey and set away until cold. Flour the hands 
and mold, dipping each croquette in slightly beaten eggs, 
then put in bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot lard — Mrs. 
M. Carr. 

VEGETABLES. 

Green above-ground vegetables should be cooked in boil- 
ing salted water, uncovered, one teaspoon salt to one quart 
water preserves color and flavor. 

VEGETABLES TO USE WITH MEATS. 

Fish — Potatoes, tomatoes, cucumbers and green peas. 
Roast Beef — Potatoes, rice, hominy, cauliflower, parsnips, 
celery, spinach, tomatoes and onions. Mutton or Lamb — 
Peas, onions, beans, asparagus, and corn. Veal — Carrots, 
spinach and turnips. Boiled Turkey — Cauliflower, Stewed 
celery, macaroni, parsnips and onions. Roast Fowl — Beans, 
mushrooms and corn.— Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

CREAM CABBAGE. 

Cut one small cabbage in quarters, cut off tough stalk, 
and soak one half hour in cold salted water, then boil un- 
til tender in boiling salted water. Drain, cut fine and put in 
baking dish, cover with white sauce and buttered bread 
crumbs. Brown in oven. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter, add three of flour, thin 
slowly, add one pint , of boiling milk, season with one half 
teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. 

12 



A. T. Short 

Office and Warehouse - - Cobalt Street 

Phone 118 p. 0. Box 437 



Coal to Burn 

You cannot have success with 
your cooking unless you use 
good coal. Buy our COAL 
and the rest will be easy. NUT, 
STOVE and FURNACE coal in 
large or small quantities. 



Dressed and Undressed Lumber 
always on hand. Pipe, Pipe 
Fittings, Steam and Air Hose. 
Cement, Firebrick and Lime in 
sto^k. Boilers, Hoists, Pumps, 
Ore Cars, Ore Buckets and all 
Mining Machinery dealt in and 
kept in stock. Ore Bags and 
Twine for immediate delivery. 



DICED POTATOES. 

One tablespoon butter melted and hot, one tablespoon 
flour sprinkled in hot butter, two cups milk stirred in but- 
ter and flour, two cups of cold potatoes (previously cut in 
pieces like dice). Allow to heat thoroughly and perve at 
once. — Mrs. Walker. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Six ears of corn, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of 
flour, two well beaten eggs, butter the size of an egg. Pry 
as oysters. 

MACARONI AND TOMATOES. 

Take half package macaroni, break into fine pieces, cover 
with boiling water, add pinch salt, boil twenty minutes. 
Prepare can tomatoes, piece butter size of egg, little grated 
onion, then strain macaroni and add to tomatoes. Let sim- 
mer then turn into hot dish. Sprinkle with cup grated 
cheese. Serve hot. — Mrs. Geo. Mitchell. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

One pound white beans, pick over and wash, place in 
kettle with enough cold water to cover. Leave over night 
drain off in morning, cover again with cold water and boil 
until skin cracks on being exposed to air; put in colander 
and pour cold water over them. Now place in bean pot one- 
quarter pound of salt pork, cover with beans, put another 
quarter pound near surface, rest of beans. Take one-half 
teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon molasses, one-half or one 
teaspoon salt according to saltiness of pork, and boiling 
water to cover the beans. Bake seven hours in medium oven. 
Serve with brown bread and chili sauce. — Mrs. Walker. 

CORN FRITTERS. , 

To one pint grated corn add two eggs well beaten, one 
teacup flour, half teacup butter, salt and pepper. Mix well 
and fry till brown. — Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

CORN SOUFFLE. 

One teaspoonful of sugar,, one teaspoonful of flour, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, beaten yolks of two eggs, one pint 

14 



of milk, one can of corn (or one dozen ears of fresh corn), 
one tablespoonful of melted butter, beaten whites of two 
eggs. Put in greased baking dish, bake one-half hour in 
moderate oven. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Two cups sliced cheese, four tablespoons milk, two eggs. 
Put on milk in double boiler, then add cheese and stir until 
all dissolved, then add eggs and a little red pepper or mus- 
tard. Let cook until smooth and dish on cornmeal crackers 
or toasted bread and serve individually. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE (with cold roast beef). 

Melt four tablespoons butter, blend it over the fire with 
two tablespoons flour sifted with one-quarter teaspoon mus- 
tard, one-quarter teaspoon salt and dash of cayenne. When 
smooth, add to it gradually three-quarters cup of milk. 
When it begins to thicken, add one-half cup grated cheese and 
one-quarter cup cracker dust. Take from fire and stir into 
it beaten yolks of three eggs. Stand aside to cool. Then 
fold in the whipped whites of the eggs. Pour into a butter- 
ed dish and bake in a steady oven. Garnish with parsley 
and serve at once. — Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

One-half pound macaroni broken into one-inch lengths, 
cooked in three pints boiling salted water twenty minutes. 
Turn into a colander and pour over it cold water. Drain, 
make a sauce of one tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
and one and one-half cups of milk; salt to taste. Put a lay- 
er of grated cheese, then a layer of sauce, then a layer of 
macaroni into the dish till full. Cover top with bread 
crumbs and a little cheese. Bake half an hour. — ^Mrs. H. 
Wallace. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Ten ears of corn cut fine, salt and pepper to taste. Then 
take two tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
one egg, and put in a pint cup, then fill the cup up with 
milk, stir all together thoroughly and bake two hours in a 
moderate oven. — Mrs. F. L. Cody. 

15 



The Cobalt Light 
and Power Co. 

(Controlled by the Cleveland-Cobalt Silver Mines, Limited.) 



SUPPLIES POWER for 
electric lighting in the 
Town of Cobalt. Nearly 
5.000 lights now installed. 



Also supplies air and elec- 
tric power for mining and 
all manufacturing purposes. 
Capacity of power plant is 
200 K.W. 

For prices of electric cur- 
rent or air power, address 

F. L. CODY, 

Manager. 



Cobalt Light & Power Co. 

COBALT, ONT. 



BAKED POTATOES ON HALF-SHELL. 

Clean and dry medium-sized potatoes. Bake in a hot 
oven until soft. When done, cut each potato in half length- 
wise, remove ' contents from shell carefully and mash. To 
each potato add one tablespoon butter, two tablespoons 
milk, a little chopped meat, salt and pepper to taste. Beat 
until light. Pile mixture in shells and brown in oven. — Mrs. 
Stevens. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of three eggs, half teaspoon salt, half teaspoon 
mustard, one teaspoon sugar, piece of butter size of a wal- 
nut, half cup of vinegar. Beat the eggs, add the salt, mus- 
tard, sugar and butter. Let vinegar come to a boil, then 
add it slowly to the mixture, stirring constantly. Cook un- 
til thick. When cold add one cup cream. — Mrs. Stevens. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One teaspoon mustard, two teaspoons flour, two tea- 
spoons sugar, one of salt, half cup cold water. Stir until 
dissolved, then add two eggs well beaten, half cup vinegar 
and a lump of butter and cook slowly until it thickens, 
stirring all the time. Take off, beat thoroughly with an egg 
beater or spoon. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Put in double boiler one and one-half cups milk. When 
hot, add butter size of egg in which one tablespoon flour 
has been well mixed. To three well beaten eggs add five 
tablespoons sugar, two teaspoons mustard, one teaspoon 
salt. Mix well. Then add hot milk, slowly stirring all the 
time. Lastly, half cup vinegar. Keep in cool place. — Mrs. 
W. H. JeSery. 

SALAD DRESSING (Will Keep for Some Time). 

One cup milk, three tablespoons butter, one tablespoon 
flour. Put this to boil. Mix six teaspoons mustard, one cup 
vinegar, three eggs, half cup white sugar, a little cayenne. 
Add to boiled mixture. Thin with cream, as required. — Mrs. 
S. H. Logan. 

17 



THE CANADIAN RAND CO, 



limited: 



Nevy Warehouse 

Foot of Cobalt Street, COBALT, Ont. 

All Types of Air Compressors 

Tappet and Adjustable Stroke Rock Drills 

Pneumatic Stope Drills and Air Appliances 



GET OUR PRICES SEE OUR GOODS 
g^S'^lolc'gy C. C. HOYT, Agent 

Don't Knock Cobalt 

BY GOING OUTSIDE TO GET YOUR 

Household Supplies and 
Cooking Outfits 

Give us a trial and let us prove to you that we can 
lay down hardware at your home at a saving to you 
of time and money. We are doing so with others. 
Why not with you ? 

COBALT HARDWARE CO. 

Hear Prospect Hotel Phone 91 



SALAD DRESSING (To Keep). 

Pour eggs, one pint milk, one and one-half teaspoons 
mustard, two tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon cornstarch, 
half teaspoon salt, two tablespoons butter, one cup vinegar. 
Mix mustard, sugar, cornstarch and salt. Melt butter. Heat 
milk to boiling point in double boiler. Beat eggs well and 
stir in the milk with other ingredients, adding vinegar last. 
Beat all thoroughly. When cold, put in glass jar and set 
away. — E. MacEwen. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small dice, add one-half 
the quantity of chopped blanched almonds and mix well 
together with the following dressing : One egg, half a tea 
spoon salt and mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper, two 
tablespoons melted butter, four tablespoons cream, one 
third cup of vinegar. Cook until it thickens and set away 
to cool. — Mrs. J. D. Byrnes. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD. 

One-half tablespoon salt and mustard, two tablespoons 
sugar, two teaspoons flour, one egg, one cup milk, one-half 
tablespoon melted butter, one-quarter cup vinegar. Mix al- 
together until smooth and cook until it thickens. Let cool. 
Chop fine one cup each of celery, apples an:l walnuts and 
add the dressing. — Mrs. J. D. Byrnes. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Chop tine equal quantities of cold chicken and celery. 
Add salt and pepper to taste and salad dressing. Garnish. 
— Mrs. Mortin. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Three oranges, threa bananas, two apples, one cup nut 
meats, one bunch celery. Chcp all into pieces, not too fine. 
Mix all together carefully with mayonnaise. 

PEANUT SALAD. 

One stalk celery cut fine, three-quarters cup blanched, 
chopped peanuts, two apples, chopped fine. Mix all together 
with mayonnaise dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves.— 
Mrs. W. H. Jeffery. 

19 



MANITOBA WHITE BREAD. 

Six potatoes, boiled and washed, three-quarters cup 
sugar, one-quarter cup salt, three-quarters cup flour, one 
yeast cake, two or three quarts water as desired (boiling). 
Max flour, sugar and salt, add to mashed potatoes and pour 
over the mixture two quarts of boiling water. (You may 
use three quarts without increasing other ingredi- 
ents, except salt). When lukewarm add yeast cakes. Let rise 
in moderately warm place until light (generally over night). 
Then add three measures of flour to one of water. Let rise 
two or three times, then put in pans, rise and bake as usu- 
al. Note — Yeast cake must be dissolved in lukewarm water 
before adding.— Mrs. Geo. Dean. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Half cup flour, half cup corn meal, one and on-; half 
graham flour, one-half pint sour milk, one-half cup molasses, 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in molasses, stir all together. 
Steam three hours in three one-pound baking powder tins, 
each half full.— Jessie Pringle. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One cup cornmeal, two heaping cups graham flour, one 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt. Mix well then one cup of 
molasses. Add to it one pint hot water and stir well, then 
add to meal and flour. Beat and put in basin. Set in a 
steamer two hours. Set in oven and dry fifteen minutes.— 
Mrs. Geo. Mitchell. 

■; MUFFINS. 

^'■'. 

Two cups buttermilk, two cups sugar, one cup lard, two 
teaspoons soda, mix as for biscuits, roll out three-quarters 
inch thick, spread with butter, sprinkle with sugar, roll, 
then slice from end about half inch thick and bake. — J. B. 
Hawkshaw. 

MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls of well sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Stir together 
one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter, yolks 
of two eggs, then the flour, and, lastly, the whites of two 
eggs thoroughly beaten to a stiff froth. Put in gem pans. 
Bake in hot oven. 

20 



Headquarters for Souvenirs and Post Cards of Cobalt 

R. D. Devlin & Co. 

THE RELIABLE 

DRUGGISTS 

Kodaks, Films and Supplies 

THE BRICK BLOCK, - SILVER STREET, COBALT 



CROWN BAKERY 

COBALT STREET. - COBALT. ONT. 

Here the rich Those who can afford the Best buy^'*' 

and poop meet crown Bread. Those who cannot"" 
when it comes afford to use butter also buy CROWN''"' 



to wanting 
bread. 



Our Buns, 



Bre^d, for. it can be had as cheaply 
as the other kinds — Costs a little 
more to produce — that's all, but in 
Cakes Pies and ^^^^ lies the secret of its popularity.' 
other Pastrv "^^^ fact' that it is mixed by machin-''' 

are equally e^y may have something to do with"" 

popular. it. ' 



JAMIESON & HARMER, iTZT": : '^i 



MUFFINS. 

One tablespoon of butter creamed with two tablespoons 
sugar^ add one egg and one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons 
baking powder in two cups of sifted flour and a pinch of 
salt. Bake £fteen to twenty minutes in a good oven. — J. M. 
Freer. 

JOHNNIE CAKE. 

One cup flour, one cup cornmeal, half a cup sugar, one 
cup sweet milk, three small tablespoons melted butter, three 
teaspoons baking powder, two eggs unbeaten, one teaspoon 
salt. Mix flour, meal, baking powder, sugar and salt to- 
gether. Break into this the eggs, then add milk and lastly 
the melted butter. — Mrs. J. D. Byrnes. 

SPOON CORN BREAD. 

Pour cooking spoons of white cornmeal (if you can get 
the white). Scald the meal by pouring on boiling water, let 
it cool, but not get cold. Then stir in one tablespoon of 
shortening (butter preferred), one teaspoon of salt and two 
well-beaten eggs; beat well. Then put into a well greased 
pan, a deep pan is best, but not too deep. Bake one-half 
hour in a moderately heated oven. 

TEA BISCUIT. 

Eight cups flour, three teaspoons soda, four teaspoons 
cream of tartar, one cup shortening, a little salt, sweet 
milk to make a nice dough. Pinch dough off with thumb 
and fingers; this makes nicer biscuits than cutting them.— 
Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Cup brown sugar, piece butter size of egg, let scorch to- 
gether, then add tablespoon flour and stir into butter and 
sugar until smooth. Add boiling water, stirring till it has 
the thickness of cream and add dessertspoonful vanilla — very 
fine. — ^Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 

MARMALADE PUDDING. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, two 
tablespoons marmalade (orange or pear), one-half teaspoon 

22 



baking soda, one and one-half cups flour. Steam two hours. 
— Mrs. J. Ralph (Jordon. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Five soda biscuits, rolled fine, one quart milk, yolks of 
three eggs, one cup sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, half cup 
raisins, bake about one and one-half hours. Frost with the 
whites of three eggs beaten until stiff, with sugar to taste. 
Brown in the oven. — ^Mrs. Stevens. 

SMALL CHEAP PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup suet, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup 
molasses, one cup milk, four cups flour, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful cinnarfion and cloves. Steam 
or boil three hours. — Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon gin- 
ger, one teaspoon soda, one egg, butter size of an egg. Dis- 
solve soda in sour milk and mix with molasses, then add 
egg and flour to make a stiff batter. Steam about two and 
one-half or three hours. — Jean Haggart. 

SAUCE FOR GINGER PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, one small piece of butter, beat to£'ether 
with yolk of one egg, pour on a small cup of boiling water, 
then beat the white of the egg very light and put on top. — 
Jean Haggart. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

One cup brown sugar, one tablespoon butter (browned 
together). Add one tablespoon flour mixed with a little 
milk. Stir in sugar and butter while boiling, add enough 
water to thin it. 

COBALT FOAM SAUCE. 

One cup boiling water, one cup sugar, one tablespoon 
"butter, one dessertspoon cornstarch, one tablespoon vinegar, 
one 5gg beaten and whipped in when ready for use. — A. K. 
M. 

23 



JOE M. HENRY GERALD M. DEMING 

HENRY & DEMINQ 

JEWELER5 

ENGRAVERS 
OPTICIANS 



Diamonds Watches Clocks Jewelry 

Cut Glass and Silverware 

Cobalt Agents for the Celebrated Regina Watch. 
Marriage Licenses I^^ued. ^,i„_^,j ; 



FIN LAN 4& WALLACE 

BROKERS 

Cobalt Stocks antr iEintitg ^voptttm 

BOUGHT AND SOLD 
P. O. BOX 618 COBALT. ONT. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound each of raisins and currants, one-half 
pound suet, one-quarter pound flour, one-quarter pound 
bread crumbs, one-half grated nutmeg, one-quarter teaspoon 
salt, two ounces mixed peel, one-quarter pound brown su- 
gar, three eggs well beaten, one-quarter cup brandy. Mix 
all together thoroughly, adding eggs last. Steam five hours. 
Mrs. J. Ralph Gordon. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Two eggs, half cup butter, three teaspoons baking pow- 
der, . two . tablespoons sugar, two cups flour, one cup sweet 
milk, one cup of seeded raisins, steam three-quarters hour 
in small cups. Serve with lemon sauce. — Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

STEWED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Three cups of graham flour, one cup of New Orleans mo- 
lasses,, one cup of raisins, one cup of sweet milk, one egg, 
pinch of salt, and two teaspoons of baking powder. Steam 
two hours and serve with hard sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of suet, chopped fine, one cup of sweet milk, one 
cup of molasses, one cup raisins, three cups flour, one tea 
spoonful of soda, steam two hours. 

SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, two tablespoons butter, one table 
spoon flour. Pour over this one pint boiling water. Add one 
tablespoon of vinegar and let come to a boil. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Three eggs, juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, three 
tablespoons flour, two cups hot water. Beat yolks, add lem- 
on, sugar, flour, and lastly, hot water. Cook till it thick- 
ens. Beat whites stiffly and place on top. Put in oven to 
brown. — Mrs. Presley. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Soak one cup tapioca in one pint milk for three hours. 
Stir in one pint milk and let come to a boil Add yolks of 

25 



three eggs, one and one-half caps sugar, well beaten to- 
gether. Add a little salt and flavoring. Use whites of eggs 
with two tablespoons sugar for top. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Three tablespoons cornstarch made smooth in a little 
water. Add one pint boiling water and beaten whites of 
three eggs. Steam fifteen minutes and flavor with vanilla. 

SAUCE. 

One cup milk, yolks of three eggs, one cup sugar, onQ 
tablespoon butter. Boil until thick and flavor with vanilla. 

BANANA CUSTARD.' 

One cup milk, one egg, half cup sugar, one teaspoon van- 
illa, pinch salt. Put on milk and bring to boil, beat egg and 
sugar, add vanilla, take off milk and stir In the mixture. 
Cut in bananas when cold. This may be used for other 
fruits. — Mrs. Presley. 

JUBILEE PUDDING. 

One scant cup of butter creamed with one-half cup of 
brown sugar, then add two eggs well beaten and two table- 
spoons of preserved strawberries (or any preserved fruit 
preferred) then add one teaspoon of baking soda sifted in 
one cup of flour. Put in mold and steam one hour. 

BROWN SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 

One-half cup of brown sugar carmellized, piece of butter 
as big as a walnut, then add one cup of boiling water and 
thicken with cornstarch moistened in water to the desired 
consistency. Flavor with 'vanilla. — J. M. Freer. 

ICE CREAM PUDDING. 

Put a small pint of boiling water in double boiler, add 
a small cup of ' granulated sugar, then add two level table- 
spoons of cornstarch made smooth in a little cold water. 
Remove from fire and fold into 'it the stiflfly beaten whites 
of two eggs and one cup of pineapple marmalade. Pour in- 
to mold and set away to cool. — J. M. Freer. 

26 



DELMONICO PUDDING. 

One quart milk, four eggs, leave out whites of three, 
three tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons cornstarch, one 
cup of cocoanut, pinch of salt. Put milk in a farina kettle 
to scald, mix the starch in a little cold milk, beat the eggs 
and sugar and stir all into the scalding milk, add the co- 
coanut and pour the whole into a pudding dish. Whip the 
three whites dry with three tablespoons of sugar, flavor 
with lemon or vanilla, spread over the pudding and bake a 
light brown. Serve hot or cold, with hard sauce. — Jessie 
Pr ingle. 

HARD SAUCE. 

One cup powdered sugar whipped to a cream with two 
tablespoons butter, flavor with currant jelly and cinnamon, 
stir and mix well, heap on a shallow dish or saucer and 
set in a cool place to harden. — Jessie Pringle. 

COTTAGE FRUIT PUDDING. 

Put in a deep baking dish a layer of fresh berries; mix 
one cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one egg, one cup 
milk, three cups flour and two teaspoons baking powder. 
Pour over the berries and bake until brown. Remove from 
oven, turn top side down and serve with sauce. — Mrs. W. E. 
T. Barton. 

GOOD PIE PASTE. 

One and one-half cups flour, pinch salt, one-half cup 
shortening. Mix these together by squeezing shortening 
through the fingers a few times, then add just enough water 
that will use the flour up nicely and not have dough too 
dry. Adding too much water makes dough tough. Don't roll 
too much.— Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Pour eggs, one quart of milk, a little salt and one-half 
cup sugar. Bake with under crust only. — Mrs. A. Munroe. 

LEMON PIE. 

The juice and grated rinds of two lemons, three and 
three-quarters tablespoons cornstarch, four and one-half 

27 



cups boiling water, one and three-quarters cups sugar, four 
eggs. Beat yolks of eggs till light, add other ingredients, 
use whites for icing with two tablespoons sugar. — J. B. 
Hawkshaw, 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, two eggs, one cup granulated sugar, two 
tablespoons cornstarch, one tablespoon butter, one cup 
boiling water. Beat yolks of eggs until light, add sugar, 
cornstarch, butter, lemon (grated rind and juice), and, last- 
ly, the water stirring until smooth. Cook until thick. 
Turn this into the crust already baked and use the whites 
for frosting. — Mrs. .f. D. Byrnes. 

LEMON PIE. ' 

One cup boiling water, piece of butter, yolks of two 
eggs, tieat and add one cup white ' sugar, one tablespoon 
cornstar(Ch dissolved in water. Add juice of one lemon after 
taken from stove. Put in baked crust. Frost with whites. — 
Mrs. M. Carr. 

CREAM PIE. 

Two eggs, one cup milk, three tablespoons flour, two 
teaspoons vanilla, pinch salt, cook like custard. Have shell 
cooked. Put in filling. — Mrs. Presley. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

One coffee cup milk, two tablespoons grated chocolate, 
three-quarters cup sugar, yolks three eggs. Heat chocolate 
and milk together; add the sugar and yolks together, beat 
to a cream, flavor with vanilla, bake with under crust. 
Spread meringue of the whites over the top. — Mrs. W. E. T. 
Barton. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Half cup grated chocolate, one cup hot water, two table- 
spoons cornstarch, one cup brown sugar, yolks of three 
eggs (beaten), one tablespoon butter, a little vanilla. Whip 
whites of eggs and spread on top. Brown in oven.— Eliza- 
beth MacEwen. 

28 




H. H. LANG 



DEAUER rN 



Real Estate and 
mining properties 




DATE CUSTARD PIE. 

For two pies, stew half pound dates in a little water. 
Remove stones. Add three beaten eggs, two tablespoons 
sugar, two cups milk. Put crust in oven for a few minutes 
before adding the filling. Cook until it thickens. — E. Mac- 
Ewen. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Three-quarters cup stewed pumpkin, one cup milk, one- 
half cup sugar, one egg, one-half teaspoon ginger, nutmeg 
and cinnamon and pinch of salt. — Mrs. Byrnes. 

PRUNE DESSERT. 

One-half pound prunes stewed until soft, then chopped 
fine. Then the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
and one-half cup pulverized sugar, and the chopped prunes; 
put in mold and set in oven in pan of hot water. Bake one- 
half hour. Must be served right from the oven, with cream. 

BURNT ALMOND CREAM. 

One quart fresh milk, one cup brown sugar (scorched), 
four tablespoons cornstarch, three-quarters cup blanched 
almonds, little salt and butter, vanilla to taste, two eggs. 
Pour into molds when cold and eat with cream. — Mrs. J. 
Howard Campbell. 

RHUBARB CREAM. 

One quart of rhubarb cut in one-inch pieces, one-half 
ounce gelatine, one pound sugar, some grated lemon rind or 
a few drops of lemon juice. Place the rhubarb in a stew- 
pan with sufficient water to cover and stew to a pulp. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in a small quantity of hot water, then 
add it to the rhubarb pulp. Stir in the sugar and, lastly, 
the lemon. Rinse a mold out in cold water, pour in the 
rhubarb mixture and leave till firm. Turn out on a glass 
dish and serve with boiled custard around it. — C. J. Mc- 
Ewen. 

BURNT CREAM. 

Two cups brown sugar, four cups milk, four tablespoons 
cornstarch, small piece of butter, one-quarter pound chopped 

30 



walnuts. H«at milk, add the sugar, carmellized, then corn- 
starch, then butter. Boil until thick, flavor with vanilla and 
put in mold. — E. MacEwen. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One pint cream whipped light, add one cup sugar and 
flavoring. Soak one-half box gelatine until soft. Pour water 
off and dissolve in milk. Then beat it into the mixture. 
Line mold with lady fingers, and put mixture in. 

APPLE CREAM. 

Take one cup apples which have been cooked in as little 
water as possible, and mash very fine. When very cold add 
one-half cupful of sugar and white of one egg and beat all 
together for about twenty minutes until white and stiff. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla. This will serve four. — Mrs. 
Mortin. 

PINEAPPLE SNOW. 

Soak one-half package gelatine in one-half cup cold 
water, add one-half cup boiling water to dissolve, add one- 
and one-half cups canned pineapple juice and suflficient sugar 
to make quite sweet. Set aside to cool Whip whites of 
three eggs and pinch of salt. Add to thickened mixture and 
beat slowly but steadily until it holds its shape when drop- 
ped from spoon. Then turn into wet molds and when firm 
unmold and serve with whipped cream or the egg yolks 
made into soft custard with pint of milk and sugar. — T. 
Olive Mitchell. 

ALMOND BLANC MANGE. 

Make a paste of four tablespoons cornstarch, wet with 
a little cold water. Stir this into a quart of milk, with 
four tablespoons sugar, and boil until thick. Flavor with 
a drop or two of almond extract and stir in one cupful of 
chopped blanched almonds. Pour into a mold and serve 
very cold (with whipped cream, when possible). — Mrs. 
Byrnes. 

MAPLE MOUSSE. 

One quart cream, yolks three eggs, one cup maple syrup. 
Let syrup boil. Whip cream lightly. Beat yolks of eggs 

31 



and add gradually one cup syrup. Stir slowly into cream. 
Pack in freezer with ice and salt and let stand three hours 
when it should be frozen. — Mrs. Stevens. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

Two tablespoons gelatine, one-quarter cup cold water, 
two ounces Baker's chocolate, two cups scalded milk, one 
cup sugar, three eggs, one-quarter teaspoon salt and vanil- 
la. Soak gelatine in cold water; mix sugar, chocolate and 
eggs, add scalded milk and cook in doubfe boiler until coat- 
ing is formed on a spoon; add soaked gelatine when dis- 
solved; add salt and vanilla; pour into mold and chill. 
Serve with soft custard.— Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

One-third box gelatine in one-half cup water, bring to 
boil juice one can pineapple, dissolve gelatine in this while 
hot, add sugar to taste, set away to cool and when it be- 
gins to thicken whip until it turns white, then add one pint 
whipped cream and the pineapple, cut up fine. — Mrs. W. H. 
Jeflery. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Nine eggs, three pounds raisins, two pounds currantSj 
one pound dark brown sugar, one-quarter pound lemon and 
citron peel, one-half cup fruit juice or brandy, two tea- 
spoons soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon nutmeg, 
one teaspoon cloves, one-quarter pound almonds, one pound 
butter, figs if you choose, and two and one-half cups flour.— 
Mrs. Geo. Mitchell. 

COLD WATER CAKE. 

One egg, two tablespoons butter, one cup sugar, one cup 
cold water, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, salt, essence, flour to mix not too stiff; bake. — J. B, 
Hawkshaw. 

HOT GINGER BREAD. 

One Egg, one cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon ginger, one-half 
cup boiling water, two cups fiour, salt. — Mrs. Jeffery. 

32 



Pictorial Cobalt 



THE LATEST AND MOST COMPLETE COLLECTION OF 

HALF-TONE REPRODUCTIONS 

OF THE GREATEST SILVER MINING 
CAMP IN THE WORLD. 



1908-09 




COBALT, WINTER OP 1905. 



r 1 '^'^^^'^ 


. ■ - 






i 1 ^4r^P?S* * 














i 


I 1' ^r 1 


■ 


■ 


<i 




% 




J 


^^tmJtu^^mWSmtBK^tLma^^^it^t 


lalt 


1 


i 




MhL 


mm 





COBALT, SUMMER OF 1905. 



■rri'i iiMf 







Q 
a 

u 



Q 
<J 
OQ 

Q 

< 

C5 
J 

P 
<J 

CO 

H 
J 
<! 

o 

o 




COBALT STATION. 




CANADIAN BANK OF COMMERCE. 




' 1 ■? S S ^ H 



SI 




r::^-?' 



— ™"^-^ 



STREET SCENE, SHOWING PROSPECT HOTEL. 




DRILLING CONTEST IN COBALT SQUARE. 




SHAMROCK MINE. 




r ' COBALT CENTRAL MINE. 




^ '.^fj, 



''^*^J 



At 



i^^^. 




g v■..^^>i..•.-w^m'.^^-.^ ■ ^-», . ■ >.'fftja!jfesai^g...ii(iJ»ito. - y^. 




BUFFALO MINP]. 




SILVER QUEEN. 




TEMISKAMING AND HUDSON BAY MINE. 




McKINLEY-DARRAGH MINB. 




TEMI SKA MING MINE. 




O'BRIEN MINE. 




CROWN RESERVE MINE. 




CHAMBER S -FERL AND . 




PRACTICALLY SOLID SILVER AT CROWN RESERVE 




NANCY HELEN MINE. 



COBALT LAKE MINE. 




CITY OP COBALT MINE. 




DRUMMOND MINE. 




FOSTER MINE. 




NIPISSING MINK. 




TOWNSITE MINE. 




LA ROSE (Showing Large Ore Dump). 




THE COLONIAL MINE. 




KING EDWARD MINE. 




SILVER CROSS MINE. 




\ CONIAGAS MINE. 




KPJRR liAKE MINE. 



* 


^ 


ii^i^Ju..^ 




f 
J ■■*• 


'1 


1 




aBi^ 


fP«'^ 


1IL. .iWIMW 




■f ' 7 


^/ 




^«» 


,■ .v/ 


' # V^* 








r^ 






w:V 


. 


-:-^^^ 



SILVER LEAF MINE. 




TRETHEWEY MINE. 





x'*^""" 




-^ ^-.-.^__ ■: i^ "^' ■ '^ -- . ^ ....--''''■ ■ I- 



BEAVER MINE. 




NOVA SCOTIA MINE. 



LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, three 
eggs, one-half cup milk, two and one-half cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder. Bake in layers. — Mrs. McEwen. 

JELLY. 

One cup sugar, one egg, juice and grated rind of one large 
lemon, one tablespoon water, one teaspoon flour. Place the 
dish in boiling water. Let mixture thicken, spread when 
cool. — Mrs. McEwen. 

PEACH SHORT CAKE. 

Mix one quart sifted flour, .three teaspoons baking pow 
der, one-half cup butter, one-half teaspoon salt, then add 
beaten yolks of two eggs and milk to make a soft dough 
only stiff enough to be easily rolled out to fit a high pan 
When done, split with a hot knife. Spread with butter and 
lay on pared, quartered peaches, dust with pulverized sugar 
place other crust on top. Spread with whipped cream, then 
lay halved, pared fruit on top, and dust with pulverized 
sugar. — C. J. McEwen. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

White part, two cups white sugar, two-thirds cup but- 
ter, two-thirds cup milk, three cups flour, whites of five 
eggs, one teaspoon soda and two teaspoons cream of tar- 
tar. Red part, one cup red sugar, one-half cup milk, one 
half cup butter, two cups flour, one cup raisins, whites of 
five eggs, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream of tar- 
tar. Stone and roll the raisins in powdered sugar, stir in- 
to the cake and turn into middle of pan and pour the white 
part over and around it. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, the yolks beaten with one cup sugar, two 
tablespoons sweet milk. Beat the whites to a froth, mix 
them thoroughly with the sugar. Mix one heaping teaspoon 
of baking powder with one cup of flour, add to the other 
ingredients, flavor with lemon and bake immediately in 
moderately hot oven. While hot remove from pan and lay 
on a cloth, wet with cold water, spread with jelly and roll 
-quickly. Sprinkle with powdered sugar.— Mrs. A. Munroe 

65 



GO TO THE 

COBALT 
HOTEL 

When Visiting Cobalt 



We have 100 rooms supplied with 
running water, steam heat and 
telephones. Special attention to 
the traveling public. Visitors to 
the Cobalt Country we study to 
please and entertain. 



e^ 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Three-quarters cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, one- 
half, cup butter, one cup sour milk, three eggs, three cups; 
flour, one tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon soda. Cream the butter and sugar, add the mo- 
lasses, then the eggs, one at a time, and beat thoroughly. 
Put the soda in the sour milk, mixing it well; sift the flour 
and spices and add to the other mixture. Beat well. Bake 
in ginger cake tin. — Miss Jean Haggart. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of twelve eggs, two cups sugar, sifted, one and 
one-half cups flour, measured after sifting four times, one 
scant teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons vanilla. Beat whites to a stiff froth, add sugar 
gradually, then flour and flavoring. Add the cream of tartar 
to the whites of eggs when partly beaten. — N. Stevens. 

OUR IMPROVED ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of nine large fresh eggs or ten smaller ones, one 
and one-quarter cups granulated sugar, sift?d, one cup of 
sifted flour, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, a pinch of salt 
added to eggs before beating. After sifting flour four or five 
times, measure and set aside one cup, then sift and measure 
one and one-quarter cups granulated sugar, beat whites of 
eggs about half, add cream tartar and beat until very stiff. 
Stir in sugar, then flour, very lightly. Put in pan and in 
a slow oven at once, will bake in fifty minutes. Have the 
pan wet with cold water, don't grease it. — Mrs. W. E. T. 
Barton. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Part I. — Three eggs, two yolks and one whole, one and one- 
half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, two 
cups flour, one teaspoon soda. Part II. — Two-thirds cup choco- 
late, unsweetened, one-half cup brown sugar, one-half cup 
milk, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Boil, cool, and add to part 
one. Icing — Two whites beaten stiff, one small cup granu- 
lated sugar, four tablespoons water. Boil until it threads, 
pour in two whites and continue beating five minutes. — Mrs.^ 
Walker. 

67 



<5liS:^ <Sl&><Sl&><S&x <Sg> <Sg=r <S&. <Sk&><S&>r 



Adaip N. Davi5 



Coal Dealer 



-WHOLESALE AND RETAIL- 



COBALT, ONTARIO 

Phone 102 - P. 0. Box 335 




REPRESENTING 

Lehigh Vaiiey Goal Go.'s Anthracite 
Bixter Goal & Goke Go.'s Bituminous 



ICE CREAM CAKE (Three Layers). 

Five eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, three-quarters 
cup of boiling water, two and one-half teaspoons of baking 
powder, one and one-half cups flour. Flavor to taste. Beat 
the five yolks together for five minutes, add sugar, beat 
again gradually adding the boiling water. Sift flour and 
baking powder together three times. Stir in slowly and add 
the whites of eggs beaten stiff the last thing and flavoring. 
Bake in moderate oven and use boiled icing. — Mrs. J. Ralph 
Gordon. 

SPANISH BUN. 

Three eggs, one cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one cup milk, one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, two 
cups flour. Beat sugar, butter and eggs to a cream, add the 
other ingredients having the soda and cream of tartar well 
sifted through the flour. Bake in moderately hot oven. — 
Mrs. H. Wallace. 

CHRISTMAS FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds seeded raisins, one pound currants, one 
pound brown sugar, one pound butter, one and one-quarter 
pounds flour, ten eggs, one wine glass brandy, one wine 
glass wine (may be left out if desired) one teaspoon cloves, 
one and one-half teaspoons nutmeg, one heaping teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-half pound mixed peel, one cup dark molas- 
ses, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in a very little warm 
water. Mix fruit and butter together and break in egg. 
Beat well together and add other ingredients, flour last. 
Bake three hours. — Mrs. H. Wallace. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, four eggs beaten separately, two and 
one-half cups flour, two-thirds cup water, one teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, pinch salt, flavoring, whites beaten to a froth 
stirred in last thing. — Mrs. W. E. T. Barton. 

WEBSTER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one-half 
cup milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Take one-half of the cake batter, add a cup of well floured 

69 



raisins, two tablespoons molasses, some spice, place fruit 
part in the cake tin and bake about twenty minutes or un- 
til a slight crust has formed on top of the cake, then draw 
the cake tin to the edge of the oven, being careful not to 
jar the cake, then turn the yellow part very carefully upon 
the fruit part. Bake until done. The fruit part and the 
yellow part should not mix together. — J. B. Hawkshaw. 

EAGLE CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar, half cupful butter, one cupful sour 
milk, one cup chopped raisins, two, cups flour, one egg, one 
teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-quarter 
teaspoon ground cloves, one-half nutmeg. Cream butter and 
sugar, add egg, then milk with soda dissolved in it. Stir 
in flour and spices and raisins well floured. Bake slowly in 
deep pan.— Mrs. Stevens. 

STRAWBERRY LAYER CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, three 
cups flour, whites of three eggs, yolks of five,, three tea- 
spoons baking powder. Beat well. — Jessie Pringle. 

FROSTING FOR STRAWBERRY LAYER CAKE 

One scant cup of strawberries mashed, one cup powdered 
sugar, white of one egg. Mix all together and beat twenty 
minutes. Put on top and between. (Canned berries may be 
used). Strain, but don't mash. — Jessie Pringle. 

DATE CAKE. 

One-half pound butter, one and one-half cups sugar. 
Cream butter and sugar. Yolks of three eggs, one pound 
raisins, one-quarter pound almonds, two and, one-half cups 
flour, the stiffly-beaten whites of three eggs, one teaspoon 
soda in a little lukewarm water. — E. MacEwen. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

Cream together one cupful of sugar and one-half cupful 
of butter. Add one cupful of raisins, seeded and chopped, 
dredged lightly with flour, one salt spoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and 
one-half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg mixed together. Dis- 
solve one teaspoonful of soda in a little warm water, and 

70 



To Secure tl)e Best Results 
in tl)e Cooking Line 



PATRONIZE 



The Gordon-Davies Co. 



FOR 



Government Inspected Meats 

Fresh Caught Fisli 

Poultry (our own dressing) 

New Laid Eggs 

Choicest Creamery Butter 

Fresh Vegetables arrivmg daily 

NO ORDER TOO LARGE. NONE TOO SMALL. 



117 Rue de la Opera, Cobalt, Ont. 

Formerly Haileybury Road 



beat into a cupful of apple sauce (rather sour) letting it 
foam over in the bowl containing the other ingredients. 
Beat all thoroughly, add two cups of well sifted flour, turn 
into a breadpan, lined with greased paper. Bake in moder- 
ate oven about forty-five minutes. 

RASPBERRY CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, two eggs, one cup sugar, one and 
three-quarters cups flour, one cup berries, one-half nutmeg, 
one teaspoon soda. — Mrs. M. Carr. 

COFFEE ICING. 

Take strong essence of coflfee and add pulverized sugar 
until cream j"^ enough to spread on evenly. — Mrs. McArthur. 

RASPBERRY CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, 
one cup raspberry preserves, (or other small fruit), one and 
three-quarters cups flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half 
nutmeg grated, two tablespoons buttermilk, one teaspoon 
soda. Dried currants, boiled and thickened slightly with 
cornstarch are a good substitute for raspberries. Use same 
between layers. Ice with brown sugar boiled icing. — Mrs. 
George Deane. 

MOLASSES SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup molasses, one and one-half cups flour, three 
eggs, one teaspoon soda. Bake in a quick oven. — ^Mrs. F. 
Munro. 

COOKIES. 

Soft cookies, one heaping cup of butter, one and one- 
half cups sugar, two eggs, three tablespoons sour milk, a 
small teaspoon soda, and as little flour as will roll them 
out. Do not roll them thin. Sprinkle over with sugar be- 
fore cutting out and press it in slightly with rolling pin. — 
Mrs. F. Munro. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, two cups of 
grated cocoanut, two eggs, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 

72 



^0^ 



R A. JAMIESON ALEX. SCOTT WM. JAMIESON 

PrcsiJcDt Vice-President Managing Director 



The 



Jamieson Meat Co. 

LIMITED 

BUYERS AND SELLERS 

LIVE STOCK 'J DRESSED MEATS 



rnHE firm 


that 


IS known all 


over 


-*- New 


ntano 


for handlin 


g the 


Best of Everything in the 


Meat 


and Produce 


Lines. 




Come and get acquainted 


with 


us and you 


will 


be sure to 


he a 


steady customer. 


Satisfaction 


guar- 


anteed. 









HEAD OFFICE AND ABATTOIR, ■ - RENFREW, ONT. 

BRANCHES 

COBALT HAILEYBURY NEW LISKEARD 

AND ENGLEHART 

J. Howard Campbell, Manager* 

COBALT BRANCH 



der, and mix with enough flour to roll easy. Roll very 
thin, bake in a quick oven, but not brown. 

MACAROONS. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a stifE froth, beat in one 
cup of granulated sugar. Set this over boiling kettle tc 
steam for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Mix with 
two heaping cups of shredded cocoanut, one tablespoonful of 
dry cornstarch, one-half teaspoon extract of almond and 
one-half cup of chopped walnuts. Then add whites of eggs, 
mix thoroughly, form in small balls and bake on buttered 
paper about forty minutes in slow oven. — J. M. Freer. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Two eggs, one-half cup butter, two teaspoons baking 
powder, two tablespoons sugar, two cups flour, one of 
milk, one of raisins, chopped very fine ; steam one-half hour 
in small cups, serve with sauce. — Mrs. W. B. T. Barton 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup grated cheese, one cup flour, one-half cup but- 
.ter, one-half teaspoon salt, a little cayenne pepper. Moisten 
with ice water. Roll out thin and cut in half -inch strips 
Bake in a hot oven. — ^Mrs. Stevens. 

COCOANUT HILL CAKES. 

Whites of three eggs beaten until stiff, add two cupfuls 
of shredded cocoanut, three-quarters of a cupful of sugar. 
Bake a few minutes in a quick oven. — Mrs. Walker. 

PIN WHEELS. 

One pint flour, one-half cup butter, two small teaspoons 
baking powder, mix as for biscuit with sweet milk, spread 
when rolled out to one-half inch thickness with butter, 
sugar, cinnamon, currants. Roll like ' jelly roll, cut in 
slices and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. Walker. 

PEANUT DROPS. 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons milk, one- 
quarter cup sugar, one egg, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder, one-half cup peanuts chopped fine, one-half 

74 



Q 



M. McKinnon ^ 



WHOLESALE and RETAIL 

r. u m: IB E R 

MERCHANT 



^^ 



All kinds of timbers suitable for 
mining purposes and buildings 
of every description. 

All kinds of Rough and Dressed 
Lumber. 

Doors and Windows of all kinds 
complete. 

Kiln Dry Interior Finish a 
Specialty. 



Office, Storehouse and Yards : 

COMMISSIONER STREET, ■ • COBALT, ONTARIO 

OFFICE PHONE 72 RESIDENCE PHONE 105 

P. O. Address Box 337 Cobalt Inquiries Solicited 



4 



teaspoon lemon juice, a little salt. Drop from a teaspoon 
on buttered tins. Bake twelve or fifteen minutes. — Mrs. 
Stevens. 

NUT CAKE MACAROONS. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to stifi froth and mixed 
with cupful of chopped walnuts. Add one-quarter cupful of 
sugar and one-half cup grated chocolate. Drop in spoon- 
fuls and bake five minutes in quick oven. — Mrs. Walker. 

DATE COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one-half 
cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, flour to make a 
stiff dough, cream butter, add sugar, then the eggs one at 
at time. Roll very thin and put together with the follow- 
ing filling and bake : One package dates, half a cup water 
and a cup of sugar. Boil until soft and cool before using. 
— Mrs. Byrnes. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two eggs, two-thirds cup butter, one cup sugar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, two tea- 
spoons milk. — Mrs. W. H. Jeffery. 

MACAROONS. 

Beat whites three eggs with one cup sugar and one 
tablespoon corn starch, place bowl in boiling water ; stir 
constantly. Then add two cups cocoanut flavoring, drop 
on oiled paper, bake slowly. — Mrs.iW. H. Jeffery. 

BACHELORS' BUTTONS. 

One-half cup butter beaten with three-quarters cup 
brown sugar, add one egg well beaten, one-half teaspoon 
soda and one-half teaspoon cream of tartar sifted with two 
cups of flour. Mix soft, roll out, cut with quite small cake 
cutter. Bake in quick oven. Spread jelly on one and cover 
with another. — Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

NUT CAKES. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, one cup sugar, three eggs, pinch 
of cinnamon, two small cups flour, two heaping teaspoons 
baking powder. Mix well and add one-half cup chopped 

76 




STOVE ^ 
RANGE 

TALK 



"Baking Bread on the Canada B." 

IT is quite possible to possess a cooking range, bright wjth uicke 
plating, fitted with all sorts of improvements, and yet be practically 
useless because of its unsatisfactory working qualities — an every 
day annoyance. Such ranges exist. But did you ever hear of 

Moffat's National STOVES or RANGES 

being unsatisfactory ? Ever hear anything but praise of their baking 
performance, of their economy in fuel, of their fire being easily kept 
going? In short, did you ever hear a disparaging word against them 
in any shape or form ? They have been on the market for years and 
today stand (as always) without an equal in Canadian stovedom. 
Thousands are in daily use, a source of pleasure in the kitchen. 

There is no other 
stove nor range quite as 
good or as satisfactory. 

Made only by 

The 
Moffat 
Stove 
Co. 

WESTON, Ont. 

Send for circular giving 

full particulars. "Broiling a steak on the Canada B. 




walnuts, one-half cup chopped raisins and one-quarter cup 
currants. Roll, into small balls and drop on buttered tins. 
Bake in moderate oven. — Mrs. H. Wallace. 

ROCKS. 

One cup white sugar, one-half cup brown sugar, one cup 
shortening, three eggs, six tablespoons milk, one teaspoon 
soda, two cups flour, one cup rolled oats, one pound seeded 
raisins and one cup walnut meats chopped fine, and flour 
to make as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon. Drop on 
a greased pan from a teaspoon, leaving space between. — B. 
MacEwen. 

OAT CAKES. 

Three cups rolled oats, two and a half cups flour, one 
cup butter and lard mixed, pinch of salt, one cup sugar, 
one teaspoon soda, one-half cup buttermilk. Cream short- 
ening and sugar, add salt. Dissolve soda in milk, add to 
the mixture, stir in ,rolled oats and lastly the flour. Bake 
quickly. — Mrs. J. Ralph Gordon. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One cup flour, two cups oatmeal, one-half cup butter, 
one egg, three-quarters cup sugar, one-quarter cup milk; 
one teaspoon soda. — ^Mrs. W. H. Jeflery. 

OATMEAL NUGGETS. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, butter the size of an egg, one- 
quarter pound nuts, three cups rolled oats, one teaspoon 
baking powder, one pinch salt, flour to make a stiff batter. 
Drop with a teaspoon. — E. MacEwen. 

OATMEAL OR ROLLED OATS MACAROONS. 

One tablespoon of butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs 
beaten separately, one tablespoon of milk, one tablespoon 
of flour, two teaspoons baking powder, three and one-half 
cups rolled oats, one teaspoon almond extract.. Mix butter 
and sugar to a cream, add eggs when beaten light. Mix 
baking powder with flour, butter bottom of pan and drop 
one spoon of batter to each macaroon. — A. K. M. 

78 



Hot Rolls 2il^ Wheat Bread 

FRESH EVERY DAY 



COBALT 
BAKERY 



PASTRY OF ALL KINDS 



The Most Central Up-to-Date Bakery In the Town of Cobalt 



COBALTS 



Departmental 



STORE 



MILTON GARB & SON 



GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, half cup lard 
and melted butter together, one large teaspoon ginger and 
cinnamon, half a teaspoon cloves, one teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in half a cup of boiling water. Stiffen with flour. 
Roll and bake — ^Mrs. F. Munro. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup butter and lard, one cup molasses, one cup 
brown sugar, one teaspocn soda, one teaspoon ginger, one 
teaspoon cinnamon. Mix altogether and let it boil up ]ust 
once and stir in soda. When cool enough to handle, mix in 
flour enough to roll nicely. — Mrs. H. Wallace. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup water, one teaspoon ginger, two teaspoons soda. 
Bring the water, ginger and soda to a boil, melt the but- 
ter in it, and add the other ingredients. Flour enough to 
roll out very thin. — ^Mrs. Stevens. 

FRIED CAKES WITHOUT EGGS. 

Take one and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of thick 
cream, two cups sour milk, one teaspoon of cinnamon and 
soda, and flour to stiffen roll, cut into rings, and fry in 
very hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one table- 
spoon of melted butter, two teaspoons of baking powder, a 
pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg. Cut out round and fry 
in hot lard. 

FRITTERS. 

Two eggs, one cup milk, one tablespoon butter, one 
soda, two tablespoons cream of tartar, flour to make a 
thick batter, cut in two apples and fry on hot lard in 
spoonfuls. — ^Mrs. Presley. 

80 



A. J. YOUNG 



LI MITED 



WHOLESALE 



GROCERS 



Dealers in Hay, Oats and all kinds 
of Provisions 

NORTH BAY, ONT. 



American 

Queen Quality 
SHOES 

For Women 

ALL KINDS OF FINE AND FANCY HOSIERY 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

One egg, a quarter cup of sugar, one cup thin cream or 
milk, one and three-quarters cups of Graham flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, one tablespoon butter, pinch of salt. 
Bake in a hot oven in gem tins. — Mrs. Mortin. 

KANAS PUFFS. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, c>ne cup 
chopped raisins, one cup currants, flavor with cloves and 
cinnamon, make a little stiffer than you would for cake. 
Bake in little gem pans. — J. B. Hawkshaw. 

VANILLA WAFERS. " 

Take one cup sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, four 
tablespoons milk, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one and one- 
half teaspoonful of baking powder, flour to make soft dough 
roll very thinly. Cut in any shape desired. — Mrs. J. How- 
ard Camubell. 

VANILLA COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, two eggs, one 
tablespoon vanilla, one teaspoonful soda, flour enough to 
roll out. — Mrs. M. Carr. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cupful hot water, one-half cupful butter, one cup 
sifted flour, three eggs. Put water and butter on stove, 
when boiling mix in sifted flour ; take from stove and stir 
to a paste. When cool, stir in the eggs without beating, 
one at a time ; stir flve minutes. Drop in tablespoonfuls in 
a buttered pan, allowing some little space between each 
cake. Bake in a hot oven twenty-five minutes, being care- 
ful not to open the door too often. When done and cold, 
cut a slit in cake and fill either with whipped cream or the 
following made custard. 

CUSTARD. 

One cupful milk, one-half cupful sugar, one egg, three 
tablespoons flour, vanilla. Stir sugar and egg well to- 
gether ; heat milk in double boiler and when scalding hot 

82 



take from stove and pour gradually over the sugar and 
egg, stirring all the time ; return to fire, and add flour wet 
up in a little milk ; cook until thick, being careful to re- 
move before it curdles ; add flavoring and when cold put 
into cakes. — Mrs. Walker. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Take marmalade oranges weighing three pounds. For 
every pound fruit add three pints water and five pounds 
sugar. After cutting the fruit thinly, add water and let 
stand for twelve hours, then boil one hour, after which add 
sugar and let stand over night, then again boil till jells. 
Grape fruit used in this* way makes equally as nice marma- 
lade. — Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Twelve oranges and three lemons (slice very thin and 
remove all seeds), add one gallon water and let stand 
thirty-six hours. Simmer three hours, add eight pounds 
BUgar and cook two hours. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Wash and cut out any imperfections, set on the stove 
and cover with water, cook slowly until soft enough to 
strain. Then take them off and strain through a jelly bag. 
To every four pints of juice use three pints of sugar ; heat 
the sugar very warm in the oven. Boil the juice fourteen 
minutes, stir in the warm sugar and boil together three 
minutes. Turn into moulds. — Mrs. A. Munroe. 

MANSE MARMALADE. 

Six naval oranges, two lemons, eight- pounds granulated 
sugar and four quarts water. Slice oranges and lemons 
very thin, pour the water over them and let stand thirty- 
six hours. Then boil about two hours. Add the sugar and 
boil quickly until it will jelly (about half an hour). — Mrs. 
J. D. Byrnes. 

ORANGE MARMALADti;. 

One dozen oranges, one-quarter dozen lemons, thre? 
quarts water, eight pounds sugar. Slice fruit very thir, 
cutting each slice into three or four pieces, remove seeds, 

83 



tlj^ ^vtat ^tavt iav iEm 



ON THE SQUARE 

King and Borsalino Hats 

Campbell's Clothing, made to your individual measure. 

Stanfield's Underwear. 

Slater and Walkover Shoes for miner and prospector. 

Our "Strong & Garfield" and "Witch Elk" Boots are the 

only waterproof boots made. 
We stock an 1 1-inch top Hobnailed Boot that can't be beat. 
A full line of Khaki Overalls and Smocks always on hand. 
Our goods at all seasons are always the best. 



©'Olarman ^ €amt,§^ 

When you visit the SILVER BELT stay at the 

Prospect Hotel 

ilobert (Fkiflna. proprietor. df-obnlt, danaba 

•The best hotel in Northern 

Ontario. - 75 bedrooms. 

Steam heated. Good 

sample rooms. 



EVERYTHING FIRST CLASS 



RATES: $2.50 per day and up 



turn water over it, let stand twenty-four hours, then boil 
two or three hours, until tender. Add sugar and boil one- 
half hour longer, turn into tumblers. When cold cover and 
keep in cool place. — Mrs. Geo. Mitchell. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Four cups water, two cups sugar, two cups orange 
juice, one-quarter cup lemon juice, grated rind of two 
oranges, one teaspoon gelatine to one pint liquid. Make a 
syrup by boiling water and sugar twenty minutes. Add 
gelatine soaked in a little cold water, then fruit juice and 
grated rind. Cool, strain and freeze. Fill mould with 
orange ice and fill centre with Italian Meringue. — Mrs 
Btevens. 

ITALIAN MERINGUE. 

One-half cup sugar, one-third cup water, one-quarter tea- 
spoon gelatine, one teaspoon cold water, whites of three 
eggs, one cup of thin cream, one teaspoon vanilla. Boil 
sugar and water until syrup will form a soft ball in cold 
water. Add whites of eggs beaten stiff, then dissolved gel- 
atine. Set in pan of cold water and beat until mixture is 
cold, then add whipped cream. — Mrs. Stevens. 

GINGER WINE. 

Three drams essence of ginger, two drams essence of 
cayenne, one-half ounce tartaric acid, three pounds granu- 
lated sugar, three quarts boiling water, brown three table- 
spoons sugar, add one-half cup water. Put all ingredients 
into a large kettle and pour boiling water over them. Bot- 
tle when cold. — E. McEwen. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Juice of six lemons, rinds of three lemons grated, four 
ounces citric acid, five pounds granulated sugar, four pints 
boiling water. Stir thoroughly several times in twenty- 
four hours. Strain, bottle. Use for lemonade. — Mrs. Geo 
Mitchell. 

BANANA SHERBET. 

Boil together for five minutes one pint sugar and one 
quart of water, let cool, add juice of one lemon and twc 

85 



oranges and one dozen fine ripe bananas peeled and mashed 
very fine. Freeze until begins to thicken, then add beaten 
whites of three eggs. Freeze like ice cream. Serve in 
glasses, with cherry on top. — Mrs. Geo. Mitchell. 

LEMON ICE. 

Two quarts milk, one quart sugar, juice of five lemons, 
put sugar and lemon juice in freezer. Add the milk and 
freeze.— Mrs. Stevens. 

LEMON FOAM. 

One cup of boiling water, the rind and juice of two lem- 
ons, three-quarter of a cup of white sugar, two dessert 
spoons of cornstarch moistened in cold water. Remove 
from fire and fold in whites 'of two eggs beaten stiffly. 

Custard for same — One pint of milk, yolks of two eggs, 
sweeten to suit taste and flavor with vanilla. Let come 
to boll and set away on ice. — J. M. Freer. 

LEMON ICE. 

Two quarts water, two pounds sugar boiled and skim- 
med, when cold add juice of six lemons,; sliced rind of four, 
infuee one-half hour, strain into freezer without pressing 
and stir in, lightly beaten, whites of six eggs. — A. K. Mc- 
Arthur. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Fill a bowl or pan with chopped ice and place on top 
of it a smaller bowl ; cover closely with newspapers and 
let it stand until the smaller bowl becomes thoroughly 
chilled, (then put a pint of rich sweet cream into the bowl. 
Whip the cream until it becomes a firm froth. Continue to 
whip until the cream is all changed, keeping the bowl on 
the ice all the time. Sweeten with two ounces of pulver- 
ized sugar and a teaspoonful vanilla. Whip constantly 
while adding the sugar and flavoring. Place on ice or in 
the refrigerator until ready to serve on any fruit or pud- 
ding. — Mrs. M. Carr. 

GINGER BEER. 

Eight pounds sugar, four pails water, seven ounces gin- 
ger root well pounded, one ounce tartaric acid, one ounce 

86 



Tl)c Jenckcs Machine Co. Ltd. 



COBALT, ONT. 



High Class Mining Machinery 

Best Prices on Ore Buckets, Cars, &c. 

Let us quote on your plant. 



Office— COBALT STREET, near Nipissing Ore Dock 
Phone 51 P. O. Box 395 



N. C. QROCH, Representative 



Mrs. S. A. Campbell 

Corner Silver and Prospect Streets 
COBALT, ONTARIO 



Mrs. J. A. MacDougall 

€)jt plaa for Iriglr-clasa jEtUiner^, wa&iJ-mabi 
Clotljing anb Itahics yurnisljxngs 



cream of tartar, four lemons or more, one pint yeast, let 
stand twelve or fifteen hours, then bottle tightly ; fit for 
use in two weeks. Put on ice before using. Delightful 
drink. — Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 



CANDY 

SEA FOAM. 

Three cups of light brown sugar, one-half cup of water 
Boil until it threads. Pour into the well beaten white of 
one egg, beat well, add one cup of chopped walnuts. Put 
dn buttered plates to cool. 

FUDGE. 

Two squares of Baker's chocolate, two cups of sugar, 
one cup of milk, one scant tablespoon of butter. Boil 
until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water 
Take from fire, beat well, pour on buttered plates and set 
out to cool. Flavoring may be added if desired. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Take two cups of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of water, 
piece of butter the size of an egg. Boil without stirring 
until it hardens on a spoon. Pour out on buttered plate? 
to cool.— E. A. S. 

CHOCOLATE CANDY. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup white, one cup molasses 
one cup milk, one cup chocolate, butter the size of a valnut 

MAPLE CREAM. 

Four cups of brown sugar, two cups of milk, boil till it 
hairs, then whip until firm and flavor with vanilla. — A. K 
McArthur. 

TURKISH DELIGHT. 

Four cups granulated sugar, two ounces sheet gelatine 
(five sheets to ounce), two tablespoons orange flower water, 
juice of one lemon, two cups boiling water, melt gelatine 

88 



MINING CLAIMS AND COBALT STOCKS BOUGHT 
AND SOLD 

Dealer in Real Estate, Rents Collected. 

E. I>. RO^WE 

Member Cobalt Stock Exchange. 

Phone 8. Office Silver St., Cobalt, Ont. Box 138. 

C. St. G. Campbell, M.E. H. J. Deyell, C.E., M.E. 
Graduate of McGill. Graduate R.M.C., McGlll. 



1L.U1VIBER 

And building material of all kinds. Shingles, Scant- 
ling, Joists and Bill Stuff. Moldings, Casings and all 
kinds of finish. 

P. J. HASSETT 

Telephone No. 1 Cobalt. 



CKarles Reckm Of Sons 

COBALT, ONT. 



Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

MANITOBA & DOMESTIC 

WHEATS 

AND ALL KINDS OF COARSE GRAINS 



Manufacturers of High-Grade Flour 



add ingredients, boil five minutes, dip dishes in cold water, 
turn on candy. Next day cut in squares, roll in Jowdered 
sugar.— Mrs. W. H. Jeffery. 

HICKORY NUT CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup water, one cup nuts, boil 
without stirring the sugar and water 'until thick enough to 
thread. Flavor and set the pan in which it has boiled in 
cold water. Stir until • it becomes white. Add nuts. Turn 
into flat tins and cut in squares when cold. 

PATIENCE CANDY. 

Carmellize one cup of granulated sugar until very brown 
then add one of milk and stir until sugar is dissolved, 
when add piece of butter the size of walnut and two cups 
of granulated sugar. Let boil until it just begins to 
string, take from fire and beat until it cools, flavor with 
vanilla and, add one cup of chopped walnuts. — J. M. Freer. 

COBALT BLOOM. 

Three cups brown sugar, three-quarters cup milk, two 
tablespoons butter, one cup chopped peanuts or walnuts. 
Boil sugar and milk until it threads. Add butter and nuts, 
and let cool. Beat until it hardens, and cut into squares. 
— ^Mrs. Stevens. 

TOMATO SAUCE TO SERVE WITH BEEF LOAF. 

Strain one-half can of tomatoes and heat. Cream one 
tablespoon butter and one tablespoon flour. Add to this 
heated tomato and season with salt, pepper and parsley. — 
Mrs. S. H. Logan. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

One can tomatoes, one tablespoon sugar, a small onion, 
two stalks celery, salt to taste, one small package gela- 
tine. Cook tomatoes, onion and celery for about fifteen 
minutes. Add sugar and salt and strain. Then add the 
gelatine dissolved in water. Let boil and set in 
mould to harden. Serve with salad dressing. — Mrs. Stevens. 

W 



GEORGE MITCHELL 

Barrister, Solicitor, Notary Public 

Cobalt, Ont. 



J. W. EVANS 

Consulting Mining Engineer and Assayer. 

Cobalt, Ontario. 

THE TRIPP LIVERY AND TRANSFER COMPANY 

We buy and sell good horses. 
Call and See us. Cobalt, Ont. 



G. L. BREWER 

Livery and Peed Barn 

General Contracting with Teams 

Moving Machinery our Specialty 

Phone 72 Cobalt, Ont. 



J. J. ANDERSON 

Mining Broker 

Room 11, Hunter Block Cobalt, Ont. 

Mining Claims inspected and reported on. 
Applications for staking out a Mining Claim and 
Transfers executed and Titles examined. 



H. B. MUNROE 

Broker 

Mining Properties a Specialty. 



TOMATO JELLY. 

Strain through a cloth a can of tomatoes. Dissolve 
one-half box of "Knox's Gelatine" in part of the tomato 
juice ; heat the remainder of juice and when hot pour it on 
the dissolved gelatine. Season with salt and pepper and 
pour into a mould. — Mrs. Walker. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

Ten pounds of tomatoes peeled and cut fine. Add one 
quart vinegar. Cook until thick (like jam). Add three 
pounds brown sugar, one tablespoon of salt, one-half tea- 
spoon cayenne pepper, one dessert spoon ground cloves, one 
dessert spoon allspice, one dessert spoon cinnamon. Mix 
spices in the sugar, add vinegar and put into tomatoes 
when they are beginning to thicken. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

One can tomatoes, cover with vinegar over night. Put 
on stove. Add three cups light brown sugar, one-quarter 
teaspoon red pepper. Boil four hours. — E. McEwen. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Wash, thoroughly, simmer till soft in just enough water 
to cover them, press through a sieve to remove stones and 
skins. To ten pounds fruit add five pounds sugar, two 
quarts vinegar, one tablespoon ground cinnamon, two tea- 
spoons ground cloves, one allspice, grate one nutmeg, re- 
turn to fire and boil down. — J. B. Hawkshaw. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Five pounds grapes, three pounds sugar, one pint vine- 
gar, one teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and black pep- 
per, half a teaspoon salt. Let grapes come to a boil, put 
through a sieve to remove skins and seeds ; return to 
stove, add sugar, vinegar and spices and let boil till thick 
as desired. Very nice with cold meats. — Mrs. Mortin. 

GRAPE BUTTER, 

Prepare fruit same as for preserves, allowing one pound 
sugar to one pound fruit, one-half pint vinegar to three 
pounds sugar. Add one teaspoon each of cloves, nutmeg, 

92 



DR. MUNRO 

Edinburgh University Graduate and Medallist 

for Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children 

May be consulted in the 

Hunter Block Room 14 Cobalt. 



DR. T. W. STODDART 
DENTIST 

Will be in Cobalt Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday 
of each week, from 2 to 6 p.m. 

ROOM 6, HUNTER BLOCK. 



FURNITURE OF ALL KINDS. 

Crockery, Bedding, Children's Chairs, Carriages, etc. 

H. MAGNER 
Silver Street ----- Cobalt. 

W. O. TAYLOR, M.D. 

Phone 114 

Galoska Building : : : : : Cobalt. 

DR. G. A. SCHMIDT 
Phone No. 10 Office — Opera House Block. 



DR. E. F. ARMSTRONG 

L.D.S. 

Next Imperial Bank 

Cobalt. 



cinnamon and allspice. Boil until it jellies, stirring often. — 
B. McBwen. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Six pounds sweet apples, three pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar, peel apples, take out blow, put clove in place of 
it, steam well covered tightly, stir very little. — J. B. 
Hawkshaw. 

PICKLED PEARS. 

For one pound fruit take half a cup vinegar and half a 
pound 'brown sugar and a little stick cinnamon. Let sugar 
and vinegar come to a boil. Pare the fruit and if large cut 
in half, removing the core. Stick cloves in it and add a 
layer to the syrup and cook until tender. Remove the fruit 
and add another layer until all are done. Pill the jars with 
the syrup and seal. — Mrs. Mortin. 

INDIAN SAUCE. " 

Eight ripe tomatoes, six sour apples, four oniopis, one 
red pepper, one-half pound raisins (chopped fine), .two tea- 
spoons salt, one quart vinegar, one-quarter teaspoon cay- 
enne pepper, one tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon gin 
ger, one and one-half pound sugar. Boil all these together 
and stir often. — A. K. M. 

GOVERNOR SAUCE. 

One basket green tomatoes, one-half basket . potato 
onions sliced in alternate layers, sprinkle with salt and let 
stand over night, and pour the liquid off. Add white wine 
vinegar to cover, one pound brown sugar, one-half ounce 
each cloves, cinnamon and mace, one tablespoon mustard, 
two horse radish. Boil till soft. — Abbie K. McArthur. 

CHUTNEY SAUCE. 

Twelve green sour apples, two green peppers, six green 
tomatoes, four onions, one cup of raisins, one quart of 
vinegar, two tablespoons of salt, two tablespoons of mus- 
tard seed, two tablespoons of celery seed, one cup of white 
sugar and one cup of brown sugar, seed raisins and pep- 
pers, add tomatoes and onions and chop fine. Put vinegar, 
sugar and spices on to boil. When to the boil add chopped 

94 



mixture and let simmer one hour, then add apples chopped; 
cook slowly until done. — J. M. Freer. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Two quarts small cucumbers, two quarts small onions, 
one cauliflower, one head of celery, six green peppers. Soak 
over night in a weak brine made of equal parts of vinegar 
and water, let stand twenty-four hours and then scald in 
this liquid and drain thoroughly. Make a paste of six cups 
of brown sugar, two cups of flour, one-half ounce of 
tumeric, one-half pound of mustard and one gallon of vin- 
egar. Let scald five minutes, taking care that it does not 
burn and pour hot over pickles while hot. — J. M. Freer. 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Select small cucumbers and onions, put them in pickle 
over night, put them in jars and put following preparation 
over them and seal tightly. Quart vinegar, cup sugar, tea- 
spoonful tumeric sauce of curry powder, two tablespoohs 
flour and salt, spoon red pepper. Mix all together and boil, 
stirring while cooking to keep smooth. Pour over pickles 
and seal. — Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 

RAW PICKLE. 

Take equal, parts of cabbage, onions and ripe cucuiiibeis, 
mince all together, sprinkle with salt, let stand over niirht 
In morning drain, put into jars, and cover with cold vin- 
egar and a little pepper. — Mrs. J. Howard Campbell. 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel the tomatoes, cut them in two and < )ver each 
piece with mayonnaise. Place them on one side of a vege 
table dish, and on the other side place sliced jucumbers wet 
with French dressing. Separate the two with crisp lettuce 
leaves. — C. J. McEwen. 



95 



Go to 

MRS. A. MONTSON 

Bay Lake Restaurant 

For Good Meals. Latchford, Ont. 

C. P. CAMPBELL 

Undertaker and Embalmer 

Dealer in First-class Cheap Furniture. 

Silver Street .. .. .. Cobalt. 

CAMPBELL & DEYELL 

Mining Engineers and Assayers 

Cobalt :: :: :: :: Canada. 

R. S. Code, O.L.S., C.E. T. G. Code, O.L-S., C.E. 

CODE & CODE 

Ontario Land Surveyors and Civil Engineers. 

Room 12, Hunter Block. Cobalt, Ont. 



E. B. Ryckman, K.C. C. S. Maclnnes, K.C. 

Charles W. Kerr. J. W. Mahon. 

RYCKMAN, KERR, MacINNBS & MAHON 

Barristers, Solicitors, Notaries, etc. 

Cobalt ----- Canada. 



CHAS. H. HAIR, M.D.C.M., F.T.M.O., M.C.P.S.O. 
Late House Surgeon in 

Toronto General Hospital. 

Office — Devlin's Drug Store. Surgery a Specialty. 



TEMISKAMING & NORTHERN ONTARIO RAILWAY 

The People's Line 

The Settler, the Lumberman, the Prospector and the Tourist find their Mecca 
on this route, now completed as far north as Cochrane. 



ri^^HE Temiskaming and Northern Ontario Railway starts from North 
-L Bay, a junction point with the Grand Trunk and Canadian Pacific 
Rys., 227 miles from Toronto, and 360 miles by Canadian Pacific from 
Montreal, and running north passes through New Ontario's great belts of 
forest, mineral and clay. It is a provincial-owned and operated road, and 
was built for colonizing purposes. The Commission that controls its man- 
agement has kept this original intention plainly in view, and month after 
month, the steel of the T. & N. O. opens new township after nev,- town- 
ship of good agricultural lands, new deposit upon deposit of the richest of 
mineral, and stretch after stretch of valuable timber. The intending set- 
tler, miner or lumberman can now get entrance to this wonderland of 
Ontario's wealth as far. north as Matheson, formerly McDougall's Chutes, 
on the Black River, in the township of Carr, 205 miles north of North 
Bay. Beyond this the construction is being rapidly pushed forward to 
the junction with the Grand Trunk Pacific north of and beyond the lakes 
of Abitibi. 




jm^^^ Chase & Sanborn's 
■Ma win your heart. 




BONSALL CREEK, MILLER LAKE, MONTREAL RIVER. 




SAMPLE OF ORB. 



INDEX 

(RECIPE SECTION). 

. Page. 

Weights and Measures 5 

Time for Cooking Vegetables 6 

Soups 6-8 

Fish 8-9 

Meats 9-11-12 

Vegetables and Salads 12-14-15-17-19 

Breads 20-22 

Pies and Creams 27-28-30-31-32 

Puddings and Sauces 22-23-25-26-27 

Cakes and Cookies 32-65-67-69-70-72-74-76-78-80-82 

Marmalades 83 

Drinks, Icings, etc 85-86 

Candies 88-90 

Pickles 94-95 

Miscellaneous , 90-92-94-95 

(ILLUSTRATED SECTION). 

Frontispieces 2-3 

Cobalt Street Scenes and Public Buildings 34 to 44 

Cobalt Churches 45 to 48 

Cobalt Mines 49 to 64 

Views of District 98 to 101 



We are indebted to Messrs. Bogart 
and Seligman, and other friends, for 
photographs taken and assistance 
given in compilation of this book. 



^'''^^'.J^Mih'^Mi'^ 



'f. ■y,ir 

'•^ "i^t"' 
:r W\,' 






