PRINCIPLES AND METHODS 

OF 

'HYSICAL EDUCATION AND HYGIENE. 



ZTetX)Boofe8 on ; Education, 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF TEACHING. By J. 
WELTON, M.A., Professor of Education in the Univer- 
sity of Leeds. 4s. 6d. 

CONTENTS. - General Function of Teaching Material of Instniction 
Form of Instniction The Teaching of English : Preparatory : Reading ; 
Literature ; Composition and Grammar; Summary The Teaching of Music 
The Teaching of History The Teaching of Geography The Teaching of 
Natural History The Teaching of Mathematics The Teaching of Form- 
The Teaching of Needlework. 

"A well-written and full presentation of the best educational methods 
of the time. Not only to college student but to skilled and experienced 
practitioner we commend this suggestive and very helpful volume." 
School i in I. <t < r. 

"We have no hesitation in placing Professor Welton's book among the 
best."- Education. 



VOICE TRAINING IN SPEECH AND SONG. By H. H. 

HULBKRT, M.A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Lecturer in Voice 
Production at the London County Council Day Training 
College, Guildhall School of Music, etc. Is. 6d. 

This treatise is based on the results of latest investigations. Voice 
Training has been treated as a special branch of Physical Education, and 
the breathing exercises have been co-ordinated with exercises for ordinary 
physical development. Most emphasis has been laid on securing complete 
flexibility of the muscles of the chest and of the articulatory organs. 

" Dr. Hulbert speaks with authority on this subject of vital importance 
to teachers. It will pay any teacher to get this book and read it care- 
fully. " Schoolmaster. 



THE SCIENCE OF SPEECH: an Elementary Manual of 
Phonetics for Teachers. By B. DUMVILLE, M.A. 

[In the press. 



UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL PRESS, 
LONDON : W. B. CLIVE, 157 DRURY LANE, YV. C. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS 



OF 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND 
HYGIENE. 



BY 



W. P. WELPTON, B.Sc., 

MASTER OF METHOD IN THE UNIVERSITY OF LEEDS. 




LONDON: W. B. OLIVE 

(Unit>er0ifj> ufortaf ( 



157 DKURY LANE, W.C. 
1908 




PREFACE. 



SOME apology is needed at this time for presenting 
to the public a work on physical education. So much 
has been said and written on the hygienic and medical 
aspects of school life that it would seem that little more 
needs to be said. Yet the thought of the present day on 
these particular aspects of education, thorough as it is in 
its details and scientific in its outlook, leaves much to 
be desired. To a great extent it lacks that well-balanced 
judgment which comes only from viewing school life in all 
its aspects, intellectual, social, and moral, as well as hygienic 
and medical. 

The theory and practice of education suffer from a 
multitude of experts regarding the child and the school 
from a multitude of points of view. Some consider the 
child only as a thinking machine ; others as possessing only 
a body. A well-balanced theory and practice must look 
at child life as a whole, at the various bodily activities 
developing in correlation with mental powers by the child 
entering fully into the practical duties of life through boy- 
hood and youth to manhood. It is in the practical activities 
of life intellectual, social, aesthetic, recreative, utilitarian, 
or whatever they may be that the bodily and mental 
powers act together in the attainment of definite practical 
ends, and it is through such practical pursuits, varied, 
advancing in the skill required, and valuable in the ends 

v 6 



vi PREFACE. 

attained, that the child will most fully develop all parts of 
his nature, physical as well as mental, in harmonious 
relation to each other. From such a point of view the 
social, moral, intellectual, and physical aspects of educa- 
tion coalesce, and the method and procedure of education 
present a consistent, harmonious, and well-balanced unity. 

Throughout the following work an attempt is made to 
regard physical education from this single unifying stand- 
point, so that the physical and the mental aspects of edu- 
cation are brought into harmony. School life is regarded 
as a whole in which physical and mental training merge in 
the pursuit of practical duties in which spirit, intelligence, 
and skill are more than brute strength. 

Feeling that a full understanding of the development of 
skill and physique could not be grasped without a some- 
what extensive and deep knowledge of the physical and 
physiological bases of human activities, I have devoted 
some space to expounding certain fundamental principles 
with regard to the energy of life, cell activity, and nervous 
function. The chapters dealing with these topics may be 
somewhat difficult to the unscientific reader, and it may 
be well for him to pass over them lightly on a first 
reading. I am confident, however, that when he returns 
to them he will find that a knowledge of these principles 
gives a deeper understanding of bodily activities and a 
clearer insight into the method and procedure of physical 
education. 

The opening chapter deals with the historical develop- 
ment of the theory and practice of physical education. 
This I felt to be the best way of approaching the subject 
from its human aspect. Modern thought is " heir of all 
the ages," and we can only fully grasp the tendencies of 



vii 



the present day by seeing them as the outcome of thos3 
of the past. But especially in physical education is a 
knowledge of its historical development valuable, for life in 
the past was not so specialised as it is now, and it was 
viewed more as a whole and less from abstract points 
of view. Hence there is found in the theory and tli3 
practice of past ages a more comprehensive and unifying 
principle than pervades the educational thought of to-day. 
Particularly is this the case in the system of physical 
education of the Ancient Greeks and in the revival of 
Greek thought during the Renaissance. 

An account of tlie history of physical education, how- 
ever, needed an author who by the depth and extent of his 
grasp of the life and education of the different ages could 
picture and describe the thought and practice of those 
times with living form and colour. Knowing my short- 
comings in this respect, I approached the subject with 
much hesitation, yet convinced that the historical outlook 
was the only rational starting point. My difficulty was 
overcome by my friend and chief, Professor Welton, of the 
University of Leeds, who with his usual kindness and 
self-sacrifice volunteered to write the opening chapter. 
In the wealth of illustration presented, and in the compre- 
hensive grasp of the underlying principles of life and 
education that pervades a vast diversity of detail, I have 
found much inspiration, and I cannot too heartily acknow- 
ledge my indebtedness to him for his kindness to me and 
to my readers. 

My debt to Professor Welton is yet deeper, for he has 
read through the whole of the remaining chapters both in 
manuscript and in proof. It is not too much to say that 
his thought and inspiration are on every page, directly in 



Vlll PREFACE. 

the very many suggestions he has made in reading the 
chapters, indirectly through my association with him for 
the past sixteen years, first as my teacher, later as my 
colleague, and always as a friend to inspire and encourage. 

The final chapter on the medical aspect has been very 
thoroughly revised by Mr. 0. T. Williams, M.D., B.Sc., 
M.R.C.P., Pathologist to the Children's Infirmary, Liver- 
pool, who has made many suggestions and removed several 
flaws in medical details. Dr. Williams has had much 
experience of children's ailments, both mental and physical, 
and as the chapter has met with his approval I feel that 
although it is" but a brief and condensed account of the 
medical aspect of school life, yet it is an accurate one. 

Finally, I must express my thanks to the several pub- 
lishers who have kindly granted me the use of diagrams. 
Many of the plates are taken from Dr. Lyster's School 
Hygiene (Univ. Tutorial Press). Figs. 1, 2, and 3 are 
copied from Wundt's Principles of Physiological Psychology 
(Sonnenscheiii) ; Figs. 10 and 10A from Mark's Educational 
Theories in England (Sonnenschein) ; Fig. 9 from Donald- 
son's The Growth of the Brain (Scott). The diagrams and 
curves add much to the value of the book, and the kindness 
of the publishers has saved me much labour. 

W. P. W. 

THE UNIVERSITY, LEEDS. 
September 1908. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.- 

SECTION PAGE 

1. Early Physical Education ... ... ... ... ... 1 

2. Xenophon's Picture of Persian Education ... ... ... 3 

3. Physical Education in Ancient Greece ... ... ... 5 

Religious Games in Homer ... ... ... ... 5 

The Olympic Games ... ... ... ... ... 6 

Physical Education at Sparta ... ... ... ... 10 

Aim of Education at Athens ... ... ... ... 12 

Education in Early Youth ... ... ... ... 14 

An Athenian School Day... ... ... ... ... 14 

Physical Training in Athens .. ... ... ... 15 

Gymnasia ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 15 

Palaestrae ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 16 

Greek Exercises ... ... ... ... ... ... 17 

TheEphebei 20 

Education of Athenian Girls ... ... ... ... 22 

Decline of Greek Education ... ... ... ... 23 

4. Physical Education in Ancient Rome ... ... ... 23 

5. Physical Education in the Middle Ages ... ... ... 26 

The Barbarians 26 

Sports in the Middle Ages 28 

Official Encouragement of Archery ... ... ... 29 

The Church and Physical Education 30 

Punishments in Mediaeval Schools ... ... ... 32 

General Survey of Mediaeval Physical Training ... 33 

The Education of Chivalry 34 



X TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

SECTION PAGE 

6. Physical Education in the Renaissance 37 

The Theory 37 

The Practice 39 

Mulcaster ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 41 

7. Physical Education in the Seventeenth and Eighteenth 

Centuries... ... ... ... ... ... ... 45 

General Decadence ... ... ... ... ... 46 

The Courtly Academies 49 

Locke 51 

Helvetius 52 

English School Sports ... ... ... ... ... 52 

8. Revival of Physical Education ... ... ... ... 53 

Rousseau ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 53 

Basedow ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 54 

Gutsmuths ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 54 

Pestalozzi 60 

Fellenberg ... 60 

9. Physical Education in the Nineteenth Century 60 

Germany ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 60 

Denmark 63 

Sweden 63 

France ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 64 

England ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 65 



CHAPTER II. 
PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 

1. Pli3 T sical in Relation to Intellectual and Moral Education 72 

2. The Relation of Mental to Bodily Activities 75 

Function of the Mind 75 

Function of the Body 77 

The Cerebrum the Organ of Mind ... ... ... 78 

The Senses 79 

The Motor Machinery ... ... ... 81 

The Coordination of Muscular Mo Yemen ts ... ... 83 

The Correlation of Sensor}' Stimuli and Motor Im- 
pulses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 8.5 

The Nervous Organisation of Correlation and Co- 
ordination ... ... ... ... ... 86 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. XI 

SECTION PAGE 

3. The Organic Life of the Body ... 87 

4. The Organism as a Complex Machine 90 

5. The Aim of Physical Education 91 

(a) with regard to the Body ... ... ... ... 92 

(b) with regard to the Mind 92 

6. The Means of Physical Education ... ..." ... ... 93 



CHAPTER III. 
THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 

1. The Energy of Life and Movement ... ... ... ... 95 

Transformation of Matter and Energy... ... ... 96 

Potential and Kinetic Energy ... ... ... ... 96 

Chemical Energy ... ... ... ... ... ... 97 

Food the Source of Bodily Energy ... 98 

2. The Body a Community of Living Cells 99 

3. Structure of the Cell 101 

4. Life Processes of the Cells 102 

5. Influence of Stimuli on the Activity of Cells ... ... 105 

6. Unifying Function of the Nerve Cells 109 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

1. The Nerve Cell or Neurone the Unit of Nervous Organi- 

sation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 112 

The Nerve Fibre 113 

Dendrites 114 

The Cell Body 115 

2. The Nervous System a Complex Organisation of Neurones 115 

3. Excitatory and Inhibitory Impulses ... ... ... 117 

4. Nerve Centres 119 

5. The Different Orders of Nerve Centres 120 

Centres for Simple Reflex Action ... ... ... 121 

Centres for Complex Automatic Action ... ... 122 

Centre for Intelligent Conduct ... ... ... 123 

6. General Structure of the Central Nervous System ... 12fi 



Xll TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

SECTION PAGE 

7. Structure of Spinal Nerve Centres ... ... ... 129 

8. Nerve Tracks connecting Spinal and Brain Centres ... 132 

(a) Motor Tracks 132 

(6) Sensory Tracks 133 

9. Centres for Cranial Nerves ... ... ... ... ... 134 

10. The Centres 6f the Brain 134 

The Cerebellum and its Connexions ... ... ... 134 

Function of the Cerebellum ... ... ... ... 135 

Connexions and Function of the Centres of the Mid- 
Brain 137 

The Centres in the Cerebrum ... ... ... ... 1 38 

11. Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 140 



CHAPTER V. 
THE EDUCATION or THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

1. The Development of Nerve Cells 142 

in Size ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 142 

in Functional Power ... ... ... ... ... 143 

2. The Development of Nerve Centres 143 

Hereditary Nervous Organisation 143 

Acquired Nervous Organisation ... ... ... 144 

Correlative Development of Mental Life ... ... 144 

Time for Training the Centres ... ... ... ... 145 

Order of Development of Motor Centres ... ... 147 

3. The Influence of the Play and Imitative Instincts on the 

Development of the Centres ... ... ... ... 147 

4. The Formation of Habit 149 

Action of Intelligence and Will ... ... ... 149 

Influence of Repetition ... ... ... ... ... 150 

Influence of Lapse of Time ... ... ... ... 150 

Intensive Study ... ... ... ... ... ... 151 

Precautions against Mistakes ... ... ... ... 152 

Preparatory Practice in the Elements of Action ... 153 

Advance from Simple to Complex Forms of Activity 154 

5. The Perceptual Element in Practical Activity ... ... 157 

Muscular Impressions ... ... ... ... ... 157 

Visual Impressions ... ... ... ... ... 158 

Tendency of Teaching to rely on Visual Impressions 159 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. Xlll 



SECTION PAGE 

6. Perceptual and Motor Training combined in Practical 

Activities 160 

7. The Nature of the Practical Pursuits of School 162 

Dual Aspect of Practical Pursuits 162 

The Motor Aspect of Practical Pursuits of the School 163 

Practical Activities of Young Children ... ... 163 

Practical Activities of Older Pupils ... ... 164 

Intensive Practice of each Branch of Practical 

Activity 165 

Wide Range of School Practical Activities ... 165 

Drill Preparatory to Practical Pursuits ... ... 166 

The Mental Aspect of Practical Pursuits of the School 167 

Practical Pursuits as a means to Knowledge . . . 167 

Practical Pursuits in Art ... ... ... ... 167 

Practical Pursuits and Moral and Social Develop- 
ment 168 

8. Organisation of Instructors of Practical Activities ... 170 

CHAPTER VI. 
THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

1. Health and the Organic Functions ... ... ... ... 174 

2. The Blood 175 

The Blood Plasma 176 

The Red Corpuscles 176 

The White Corpuscles 1 77 

3. The Circulation of the Blood 177 

The Arteries 177 

The Capillaries 178 

The Veins 178 

4. The Respiratory System ... ... ... ... ... 179 

The Air Cells of the Lungs 179 

Properties of Expired Air ... ... ... ... 179 

The Mechanism of Respiration ... ... ... ... 180 

5. The Digestive System 182 

The 'Process of Digestion 182 

Reserve Food Substances 183 

6. The Excretory System 184 

The Skin 185 

The Kidneys ... . 186 



XLV TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



SECTION PAGE 

7. The Nervous Centres for the Control of the Organic 

Functions 187 

The Sympathetic Sj^stem ... ... ... ... 187 

The Organic Centre in the Bulb 188 

The Control of the Heart 1 89 

The Control of the Arterial Circulation 190 

The Control of Respiration 191 

8. Conditions for Healthy Life and Growth 193 



CHAPTER VII. 
FATIGUE. 

1. Continued Work followed by Fatigue ... ... ... 197 

2. Nature of Fatigue 198 

Loss of Tissue Energy 198 

Toxic Action of Waste Products 198 

Nervous Tissue most sensitive to Toxic Agents ... 199 

Effects of Toxic Agents on Consciousness ... ... 200 

3. Experiments of Professor Mosso ... ... ... ... 200 

Muscular Fatigue ... ... ... ... ... ... 200 

Fatigue of the Nerve Centres ... ... ... ... 201 

4. Fatigue and Exhaustion ... ... ... ... ... 202 

5. Recovery from Fatigue ... ... ... ... ... 204 

Change of Work 205 

Sleep 206 

G. Conditions for Healthy Work 208 

The Nourishment of the Body 208 

The Supply of Oxj'gen ... ... ... ... ... 209 

The Circulation of the Blood 210 

Bodily Exercise 211 

7. The Organisation of School Work ... ... ... ... 212 

Hygienic Surroundings ... ... ... ... ... 213 

Changes of Work 213 

Intervals for Recreation ... ... ... ... ... 214 

HomeWork 214 

Conditions of Healthy Sleep 215 

Precautions during Periods of Rapid drowtli .,. 217 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. XV 



CHAPTER VIII. 

EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

SECTION PAOE 

1. Exercise in Relation to Functional Power and Health ... 218 

Local Effects of Exercise 218 

General Effects of Exercise 219 

2. The Effect of Exercise on Nutritive Changes ... ... 221 

Effect on the Nutrition of Working Tissues ... ... 222 

General Effect on the Organic System ... ... ... 223 

3. Exercise and Fatigue ... ... ... ... ... ... 225 

4. Growth Measured by Increase of Weight and Stature ... 226 

Normal Increase in Weight and Stature ... ... 227 

Conditions of Life affecting Growth ... ... ... 229 

Measurement of Weight and Stature ... ... ... 232 

5. Physical Training and Health 233 

Exercises that develop the System Generally... ... 234 

Exercises that strengthen the Heart ... ... ... 235 

Exercises that develop the Chest 236 

Deep Breathing Exercises ... ... ... ... 237 

Exercises that promote Control of the Breath ... 238 
p]xercises for training a Correct Attitude in 

Breathing 239 

Games that develop the Chest 239 

Chest Measurement ... ... ... ... ... 240 

6. Educative Value of Physical Pursuits ... ... ... 241 

Training in Health, Strength, Skill, Intelligence, 

and Character ... ... ... ... ... ... 241 

Pursuits should be based on the Natural Impulses of 

the Young 242 

7. Systems of Physical Training ... ... ... ... 243 

Swedish Drill 243 

German Gymnastics ... ... ... ... ... 244 

English Games ... ... ... ... ... ... 244 

Games, Contests, and Exercises Compared ... ... 245 

8. Physical Training for Schools ... ... ... ... 246 

( James and Contests ... ... ... ... ... 246 

Physical Exercises... ... .., ... .., .,. 248 



XVI TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

SECTION PAGE 

9. Organisation of School Life for Games and Exercises . . . 250 

Country Excursions ... ... ... ... ... 250 

Holiday Camps 250 

Playing-fields and Playgrounds ... ... ... ... 251 

Dress and Dressing-rooms ... ... ... ... 252 

10. Physical Training after School Life 252 

CHAPTER IX. 

CLEANLINESS. 

1. The Excretions from the Skin ... 254 

Sebum 254 

Sweat 255 

Effect of Excretions on the Atmosphere ... ... 255 

2. Cleanliness of Rooms 256 

3. Cleanliness of Clothing 256 

4. Cleanliness of the Skin 258 

Necessity for Cleanliness ... ... ... ... ... 258 

Washing and Bathing ... ... ... ... ... 259 

5. Education in Cleanliness ... ... ... ... ... 260 

6. Training in Cleanliness in School ... ... ... ... 262 

Necessity for School Training 262 

Example and Environment ... ... ... ... 263 

School Tone 264 

Lavatories ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 265 

Shower Baths 266 

Swimming ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 269 

7. Instruction in Cleanliness ... ... ... ... ... 270 

in the Primary School 270 

in the Continuation School ... ... ... ... 271 

8. Skin Diseases 273 

Ringworm ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 273 

Verminous Children ... ... ... ... ... 274 

CHAPTER X. 

FRESH AIR. 

1. Impurities due to Breathing and their Effect on the Body 276 

Carbonic Acid ... ... ... ... ... ... 276 

Temperature and Moisture ... ... ... ... 277 

Organic Impurities ... ... ... .,. ,.. 281 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. XV11 

SECTION PAGE 

2. Examination of Class Room Air ... ... ... ... 281 

Subjective Symptoms ... ... ... ... ... 281 

Measurement of Carbonic Acid ... ... ... ... 28 1 

Measurement of Humidity ... ... ... ... 282 

Measurement of Temperature ... ... ... ... 282 

3. Principles of Ventilation ... ... ... ... ... 285 

Ventilation a Difficult Practical Problem ... ... 286 

The Unit of Ventilation 288 

Law of Flow 289 

Circulation of Air In the Room ... ... ... ... 290 

Draughts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 292 

4. Ventilating Appliances ... ... ... ... ... 295 

Outlets 295 

Inlets 297 

Mechanical Ventilation ... ... ... ... ... 298 

Plenum and Vacuum Systems ... ... ... ... 299 

Zero-Potential System ... 301 

Advantages and Defects of the Mechanical Systems 302 

5. Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 304 

6. Instruction of Pupils in Ventilation ... ... ... 305 

CHAPTER XL 
BODILY ATTITUDES. 

1. School Life and Bodily Activity 307 

2. Evils attending a Sedentary School Life ... ... ... 310 

Narrowness of Mental Life ... ... ... ... 310 

Injury to Eyes and Powers of Movement ... ... 311 

3. Bodily Activity in the various School Subjects ... ... 311 

4. Conditions of a Healthy Desk Life ... 314 

Sitting and Writing Postures ... ... ... ... 315 

Form of Desk 315 

for Sitting ... ... ... ... ... ... 315 

for Writing 316 

for Reading ... ... ... ... ... ... 317 

for Standing ... ... ... ... ... ... 317 

Desks Suited to Stature of Pupils 318 

Training the Habit of Sitting and Writing in Correct 

Postures 319 

Upright Style of Writing 320 



XV111 TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

SECTION PAGE 

5. Position in Standing ... ... ... ... ... ... 322 

6. Remedial Exercises 323 

CHAPTER XII. 
THE CARE or THE EYE. 

1 General Law of Growth ... ... ... ... ... 325 

2. School Life and Eye Defects 326 

3. Structure of the Eye ... 328 

The Eye an Optical Instrument ... ... ... 328 

Protective, Absorptive and Sensitive Coats of the E} 7 e 328 
Refractive Media The Lens, Aqueous Humour, and 

Vitreous Humour ... ... ... ... ... 329 

4. Movements of the Eye 330 

Convergence of the Axes ... ... ... ... ... 330 

Focussing Adjustment ... ... ... ... ... 331 

5. Types of Eyes 333 

The Normal Eye 333 

The Short-sighted Eye 334 

The Long-sighted Eye 334 

6. Causes of Defects of Vision 335 

Use of Eyes in Near and Delicate Work 335 

Poor Health 336 

Unhealthy Conditions of Work 336 

Care Needed during Period of Rapid Growth ... 337 

7. Prevention of Eye Troubles ... ... ... ... ... 337 

General Conditions of School Life ... ... ... 337 

Precautions against Eye Troubles ... ... ... 340 

Lighting 340 

Arrangement of Work ... ... ... ... 342 

8. Eye Testing 343 

CHAPTER XIII. 
ABNORMALITIES. 

1. Study of the Physical and Mental Condition of Children 347 

2. Mentally and Physically Defective Children 353 

Signs of Mental Deficiency 353 

Aphasia and Agraphia ... ... ... ... ... 355 

Intellectual and Emotional Expression ... ... 359 



TABLE OF CONTENTS, XIX 

SECTION PAGE 

Structural Defects 360 

Treatment of Mentally Defective Children ... ... 361 

Nervous Exhaustion ... ... ... ... ... 362 

Deficient Vitality 363 

Anaemia ... ... ... ... ... ... 363 

Heart Weakness 364 

Improper Feeding ... ... ... ... ... 364 

Consumption ... ... ... ... ... ... 365 

Rickets 366 

Chorea 367 

3. Infectious Diseases 368 

Source of Infection ... ... ... ... ... 369 

Precautionary Measures ... ... ... ... ... 369 

Detection of Infectious Disease ... ... ... 370 

Difficulty of Detection 370 

Period of Incubation ... ... ... ... ... 371 

Signs of Illness 371 

Closing the School 372 

4. Accidents 376 

Cuts and Bleeding Wounds ... ... ... ... 377 

Bruises 379 

Burns ... 380 

Fractures 380 

Fainting, Epilepsy, and Hysteria ... ... ... 381 

Drowning ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 382 

INDEX .. 384 



CHAPTER I. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 1 

1. EDUCATION in all its forms and aspects lias a more 
or less consciously designed purpose. It 

Earl y always implies that the adult members of 

Physical 

Education, a community endeavour to prepare the young 

to live a more effective life than they would 
live without such guidance. It is only when a people 
has advanced far on the way toward civilisation that 
the educative process is clearly conceived as a whole and 
its various parts deliberately fitted into each other; and 
even then this clear insight is reached only by the most 
thoughtful. With the majority always there is but a 
vague idea, never definitely formulated in words, of life as 
a unified whole, and, consequently, of education as a 
systematised process. Each particular piece of training 
given to the young is designed to attain a limited end to 
give some special aptitude which is seen to be desirable ; 
but there is no enquiry into the relation of these aptitudes 
to each other, or into the importance of each in the work 
of life as a whole. Such an enquiry begins to attract men's 
thoughts only when the pressing needs of existence are 
easily provided for, so that there is leisure to meditate 
upon the meaning of life and its ultimate purposes. 

1 By Professor J. Welton, M.A. 
PHY. ED. 1 



2 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

Among peoples, then, which have advanced but a little 
way in the conquest of the physical world and whose 
existence is a continual struggle to obtain the bare neces- 
saries of physical existence, we shall expect to find attention 
concentrated on those physical activities such as hunting 
and fishing which directly subserve the bodily life. Life 
to a savage is little more than eating, drinking, sleeping, 
and the exertions necessary to ensure a continuance of 
those desirable modes of existence. Among these exertions 
will probably be included fighting with neighbouring tribes, 
and this gives satisfaction also to those pugnacious instincts 
which are as inherent in human beings as in many of the 
lower animals. This mode of life determines the education 
given to the young, which is essentially a training in those 
forms of physical skill which are of direct importance in 
the tribal life. Often, indeed, he who is most skilful in 
them is chosen chief. 

But even savages demand amusement for their hours of 
leisure, however few these may be. Such amusements are 
always relative to the life they live. The bards relate 
tales of war and of hunting, and celebrate the more than 
human prowess of the heroes. The tribe generally joins 
in the dance, itself a representation of scenes of hunting 
or of battle. And these dances have usually a religious 
significance. They are, therefore, bound up with the 
savage life both on its spiritual and on its material side, 
and learning the dances is an essential part of the education 
of the youths. 

There is, then, among even the most savage races, de- 
liberate education, or training of the young for life, and 
this takes a predominantly physical form because life itself 
is essentially physical. But it must be noted that the 
training is far from being merely physical, even in its 
intention. Of course, intimately bound together as are 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 3 

the mental, moral, and physical sides of our nature, it 
could never be merely physical in its effects. But the 
adult savage desires that his son should develop such 
qualities as bravery, fortitude, perseverance, wiliness, 
quickness of apprehension, and loyalty to his fellows. 
As these qualities will be shown in the physical activities 
of life, so they will be trained through the progressive 
exercise of those activities. And both song and dance 
help to cultivate such qualities ; the one by raising in 
imagination a model to be imitated, the other by giving 
immediate occasion for the feeling thus raised to find 
expression in forms of activity so closely imitated from 
those of the actual contests of life, that the feelings 
aroused by the former would easily pass over into the 
latter. 

This education is, however, only for the boys, as the life 
activities for which it prepares are those of the manhood 
of the tribe. The training of the girls is on quite different 
lines, but is equally practical. To the women fall all forms 
of labour required about the hut and the settlement of the 
tribe : in these, then, the girls are trained, and the qualities 
of character sought are patience, obedience, and industry. 

2. From such beginnings education will take on more 
and more elements as the meaning of life is 
Xenophon's more and more comprehended. But the pro- 
Persian f cess ^^ ever k oue ^ development, never 
Education. one of mere accretion. Always certain quali- 
ties of character will be aimed at through 
certain forms of life activity. We may note a more 
advanced though still early stage in the largely imaginary 
account given by Xenophon of the education of the youth 
of Persia in his historical romance of the early years of 
Cyrus : 

" The boys who attend the schools spend their time in 



4 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

learning justice," which they do by observing their rulers, 
who " during most of the day are continually deciding 
cases amongst them. . . . They teach the boys self-control 
also, and the sight of their elders living a daily life of self- 
control contributes greatly to their learning this virtue 
themselves. They teach them likewise to render obedience 
to those in authority, and the sight of their elders rendering 
strict obedience to the authorities contributes greatly to 
this also. They teach them, too, self-restraint in eating 
and drinking," both by example and by allowing them only 
the simplest fare. The boys " learn moreover both to shoot 
with the bow and to hurl the dart." 

Such is the practice of the boys till they are sixteen or 
seventeen years of age ; after this they pass into the ranks 
of the youth. The training of the latter for ten years is 
twofold keeping guard over the city, and hunting, which 
the Persians esteem highly " as the truest of all trainings 
for war. For, in fact, it inures them to early rising and 
to endurance of heat and cold, while it gives them exercise 
in marches and in running too ; they must both use the 
bow and shoot the dart against a wild beast wherever it 
falls in their way. Their courage, too, must be often 
sharpened, whenever any of the strong wild beasts con- 
fronts them." Half the youths go hunting at once "many 
times every month " under the leadership of the king. 
" The divisions that remain behind, on the other hand, 
spend their time in practising the other exercises which 
they learnt as boys, shooting with the bow and hurling the 
javelin, and are contending all the time with one another 
in these pursuits. There are likewise public contests in 
these exercises, and prizes are offered." l 

Whatever amount of idealisation there may be in this 
account, there was, doubtless, a substratum of fact, and it 
1 Cyropaedeia, I., i., 6-12. Translation by W. H. Balgarnie. 



HISTORY OP PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 5 

represented the Persian educative aim at its best. In this 
education we see an intermediate stage between that of 
savage peoples and the highly organised system prevalent 
generally throughout Greece, and found in its fullest 
perfection in Athens. There is full recognition that the 
training of the young is a matter of public concern, and, 
consequently, one for public regulation. The training is 
practical in the highest sense, aiming primarily at the 
development of a certain type of character, and cultivating 
those aptitudes through which that type of character 
would in actual life find scope. There is little trace of 
intellectual culture either as of value in itself or as a guide 
to practical conduct. Example and practice are the two 
means of training. The girl is still left to the private 
training of the home. 

3. In Greece the philosophical conception of a unified 

life first grew up among European peoples, 

Physical and as a consequence the deliberate con- 

AnciTnt 011 "* sideration of llow best to unif J education as 
Greece. a training for such a life. Such an idea did 

not spring up full-grown, but was a gradual 
development, and always it was in close touch with the 
national religion. 

In the Homeric poems life is still prepoiideratiiigly 

physical, and it is in them that we have the 
Religious first account of those religious games and 

Homer in athletic contests which played so large a 

part in Hellenic life, and so directly deter- 
mined the form of physical training given to Greek youths. 
The contests described most vividly and at considerable 
length by Homer are summed up in the reminiscences of 

Nestor : 

" In the boxing match 

I took the prize from Clytomedes, son 
Of Enops, and in wrestling overcame 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

Aneaeus, the Pleuronian, who rose up 
Against me. In the foot race I outstripped, 
Fleet as he was, Iphiclus, and beyond 
Phyleus and Poly do re I threw the spear. 
Only the sons of Actor won the race 
Against me with their chariot, and they won 
Through force of numbers." 1 

Such games added dignity to every important ceremony 
in ancient Hellas, and not much later than 
es. yr ^ e su PP se( l date of the Trojan War they 

were held periodically at several centres in 
Greece. To each was assigned a mythical origin con- 
nected with the presiding god, and always their religious 
character was prominent. Such games were the Delphian, 
the Isthmian, and the Nemean. 

But by far the most renowned were the Olympic G-ames. 
So important were these that they were made the basis of 
Greek chronology. The space of four years between suc- 
cessive games was called an Olympiad, and the first 
Olympiad was the period following B.C. 776, from which 
time the names of the Olympic victors were enrolled in the 
public registers. So Greek historians recorded events 
which to us seeni of infinitely greater importance by 
reference to the winners of these contests. For example, 
Thucydides refers to an important event in the Pelopoii- 
nesian War as occurring in " that Olympiad wherein 
Dorieus of Rhodes was the second time victor." - And in 
such an important State document as the Articles of the 
famous League between the Athenians and the Argives 
there are two references to these games : " This oath shall 
be renewed by the Athenians, who shall go to Elis, and to 
Mantinea, and to Argos thirty days before the Olympian 

1 Iliad, Book XXIII., 11. 632-640. Translation by W. C. Bryant. 

2 Book III. 



HISTORY OP PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 7 

Games. . . . And at the Olympian Games now at hand, 
there shall be erected jointly by [the States forming the 
league] a brazen pillar in Olympia" [recording "the articles 
of this league and peace, and the oath "J. 1 

Olympia was thus a kind of centre of national life 
where important records of events of interest to more than 
one State were preserved. This character was emphasised 
by the fact that during the month given up to the games 
a sacred armistice was established throughout Hellas, and 
Greeks from all the States nocked to Olympia as com- 
petitors or as spectators. The games were held in honour 
of the Olympian Zeus, to whom, as to the other gods of 
Hellas, the display of the beauty, strength, agility, and 
skill of the human body was held to be specially pleasing. 
They included all the modes of athletic contest enumerated 
in Homer, with several later developments. Thus there 
were all forms of running and leaping, of racing on horse- 
back and in chariots, of throwing javelins and quoits, of 
boxing and wrestling, and the " Pancratium," a combina- 
tion of the two latter of so severe a character that it was 
judged unfit for boys. The " Pentathlon " was a five-fold 
contest in leaping, hurling the javelin, racing on foot, 
throwing the quoit, and wrestling, the exercises being 
taken in that order, and the weaker competitors being 
eliminated at each step, so that in the wrestling only two 
engaged, and the result decided the whole contest. 

The victor in the various games received from the judges 
a symbolic wreath cut from the sacred olive-grove of Zeus, 
but this was far from being his only reward. His native 
city heaped honours upon him, poets and orators cele- 
brated his praises, statues were erected to him not only at 
home, but in the sacred groves of Olympia, amid other 

1 Thucydides, Book V. 



8 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

records of events of general Hellenic importance. So, as 
Lucian says, " tlie prizes are not of small account, nor is 
the praise of the spectators, nor that the victor becomes 
the most honoured of the Greeks, be pointed at with the 
finger by the multitude, be regarded as the noblest of 
equals in rank." l It is not surprising, then, to read in 
Herodotus : " Callias, indeed, deserves to be frequently 
mentioned by everyone ; as well for his zeal, which I before 
mentioned, in restoring the liberty of his country, as for the 
actions he performed at the Olympian exercises. He won 
the race with a single horse, and was second in the quadri- 
jugal course." 2 Distinction in the games was, we see, 
esteemed as highly as the greatest political services. 

In the days of Greek freedom and greatness the com- 
petitors were all free-born youths of Hellas, unstained by 
sin against the gods or crime against the State, and care- 
fully trained in the gymnasia for the contests in which 
they were to engage. But the excessive rewards heaped 
upon the victors led later to the growth of a class of pro- 
fessional athletes, and so to the gradual degradation of the 
games from being one of the highest expressions of national 
life to mere gladiatorial spectacles. This degradation 
was not finally accomplished till after the conquest 
of Greece by the Romans, though it had begun several 
centuries earlier. But at length none but professional 
athletes competed, and they drawn from any and every 
barbarian nation. So the games had long ceased to fulfil a 

1 Anacharsis, translated by Lowrey. Though Lucian wrote 
towards the end of the second century after Christ, when Greek 
life and education had lost their vitality, yet in this dialogue 
between Solon, the great Athenian lawyer, and the Scythian, 
Anarcharsis, he puts into the mouth of Solon the old Greek views 
on physical training. 

2 History, VI., 122. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 9 

vital function in Greek life when they were suppressed in 
A.D. 394 by the Emperor Theodosius. 

In the earlier days, however, their influence on Greek 
life and character was of the utmost importance. The 
friendly gathering at these contests of men from every part 
of Hellas, dominated by the same interests and engaging 
in the same religious observances, did much to break down 
the walls of isolation between the different Greek races 
which the physical configuration of Hellas and the political 
organisation into small and independent city-states did so 
much to build up. 

Beyond all this, the games were of the first importance in 
determining the Greek conception of the perfect life, and 
so in influencing Greek education. As Lucian puts it : 
" We have established these exercises . . . not simply that 
the young men be able to take prizes in the contests, for 
but very few from the whole number procure the rewards. 
But we have gained, however, from this practice a far 
greater good to the State and to the individuals themselves. 
For let me remind you there is a common contest of another 
sort set for all good citizens. Its crown is woven not from 
pine, nor from the branch of the olive, nor from parsley ; 
but whoever has a part in it sustains human happiness, 
and, I may say furthermore, he upholds the liberty of each 
private individual and that of the common Fatherland, he 
preserves wealth, honour, the joys of ancestral festivals, the 
safety of his family, and, in fact, he vouchsafes all those 
blessings which we would pray the gods to bestow upon us. 
All these delightful objects have been woven in that garland 
of which I speak and are the result of that contest towards 
which these exercises and these labours lead." 1 

No plainer statement could be made of the position that 
the ultimate end sought was the development of a certain 
1 Op. cit. 



10 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

type of character, and that this could be attained best 
through engaging the young in certain forms of those 
physical contests to which boys and youths are naturally 
prone. It is not meant that this more remote educative 
aim was present to the minds of the youths themselves. 
By no means. This would have vitiated the whole system. 
Then, as now, boys and youths must enter into the con- 
tests for the sake of the contests themselves and with a 
single eye to victory therein, or the full absorption of 
energy into the work in hand is wanting, and as a conse- 
quence the essential end of doing what is to be done with 
all one's might is not secured. But it is the very essence 
of a really educative process that an end not apprehended 
by him who is being educated should guide the efforts of 
those who are educating him. 

Nowhere in Hellas was this conception of education 

through physical exercise carried out so ex- 
Physical clusively as at Sparta. The Spartan ideal of 
Sparta. 101 ** human worth was essentially military. The 

town had no protective walls, for it was held 
that the true bulwarks of a city should be the breasts of 
its citizens. The whole training of the youth of Sparta 
was, then, directed to developing hardihood of character 
and hardness of body. 

Only those babies that gave promise of strength were 
allowed to live, the others were cast out on the moun- 
tains to die of cold and neglect. At seven years of age 
every boy was sent to the public training school, where 
he was lodged hardly, clad in only one thin garment, and 
given insufficient food that he might learn to forage 
successfully in war by stealing without detection what he 
needed in peace. He was constantly trained in gymnastic 
exercises, and, as he grew older, in those of war. His only 
intellectual education was music, and that .of a stirring, 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 11 

warlike nature. At the age of twenty he went to military 
barracks, and became essentially a soldier, and throughout 
life his first duty was to the State. 

Not content with the fortitude and hardihood which such 
a training would naturally produce, the Spartans made 
occasions for practice in bearing pain. The boys were 
beaten yearly before the altar of Artemis till their blood 
soaked the ground. Lucian gives us a picture of these 
customs which is valuable in showing how a training, 
which, in most of its essential features, runs counter to 
the love of ease and pleasure which a modern is apt to 
think one of the most important springs of human con- 
duct, may yet be gloried in when it expresses as thoroughly 
as did that of Sparta the national ideal. In the Anacharsis 
Solon is made to say : 

"If ever you come to Lacedaemon, bear in mind not to 
ridicule, nor to think that they labour to no purpose. Either 
if while at ball in the theatre they come to blows and strike 
down one another, or if when they come into an open space 
surrounded by water they divide lines and work against one 
another, even while naked, the deeds of war, until one party 
throws the other out of the inclosing line, until the party 
of Heracles thrusts into the water that of Lycurgus, or the 
reverse, you will learn that this is a signal for peace, and no 
one would strike after that. But especially guard lest you 
ridicule if you see young men beaten upon a trestle and 
flowing in blood, while fathers and mothers stand hard by, 
and are not undone by that which occurs, but, rather, if 
their children do not endure the blows, they chide, and they 
pray their offspring to be adequate for their toil as long as 
possible, and to be patient under suffering. Many, indeed, 
in the past, because they have not deemed it honourable 
while still alive and under the eyes of their relatives to 
become weary and to yield to their bodies, have died in the 



12 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

contest. You will see the statues of such heroes set up by 
Sparta and their names publicly honoured. 

" When you see these customs, neither suspect that they 
are mad nor say that they endure suffering without ade- 
quate cause, nor that a tyrant compels them, nor that their 
enemies enforce this upon them. Lycurgus, their lawgiver, 
will speak many rational words in behalf of their customs ; 
how from a plain understanding of the necessities of the case 
he chastises the youth ; how he is no enemy ; that he does this 
not from hatred, nor does he institute it to waste to no pur- 
pose the youthful energy of the body politic, but he does this 
because he considers that those who shall save their father- 
land must be most patient and superior to all suffering." 

We could not have a more explicit statement of the 
actual attainment of a moral end definitely conceived by the 
educators, through means deliberately adopted as calcu- 
lated to attain that end and accepted willingly by the young 
through the influence of the national sentiment. 

In Sparta, too, the girls received a full course of physical 
training, in order that both in physical strength and in 
hardihood of character they might become fitted to be the 
mothers of soldiers. 

Nowhere else in Hellas was so single an eye kept upon 
one side of life and one type of character. 

Aim of Elsewhere, and especially at Athens, a wider 

Education at J ' 

Athens. an more adequate conception ot lite as a 

whole became more and more dominant, till 
in the heyday of Athenian greatness men in general reached 
a more complete view of the relations of the spiritual and 
physical aspects of life, and embodied that view in a more 
harmonious scheme of education than has been seen else- 
where. This education was a combination of literary and 
musical and artistic culture, called generically 'Music,' 
and of physical training, known as ' Gymnastic.' 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 13 

No doubt the first answer given by an Athenian citizen 
to a question as to the functions of these two would have 
been, as Plato puts it, " Gymnastic for the body and music 
for the soul." l But just as an English father of to-day, 
though he would think first of the physical effect of games 
on his son, yet would grant at once to an enquirer that he 
wishes and expects him to grow in pluck, sportsmanship, 
and other manly virtues through his games, so an Athenian 
would quite have accepted the argument by which Plato 
leads up to the position that " neither are the two arts of 
music and gymnastic really designed, as is often supposed, 
the one for the training of the soul, the other for the train- 
ing of the body," but "that the teachers of both have in 
view chiefly the improvement of the soul." 2 

On the evils of excessive devotion to each Plato also 
voices common Athenian opinion : " The mere athlete 
becomes too much of a savage, and the mere musician is 
melted and softened beyond what is good for him." 3 The 
true aim of education is, therefore, a judicious blending of 
the two, " and he who mingles music with gymnastic in 
the fairest proportions, and best attempers them to the 
soul, may be rightly called the true musician and har- 
monist. . . . Such are our principles of nurture and 
education." 4 

The actual education in Athens was free from State 
control. Anciently the laws had laid down regulations for 
the conduct of schools and for securing the attendance of 
boys at them. But the Athenian father did more for his 
son than the law commanded, and consequently the State 
regulations fell into desuetude. Plato and Aristotle 
objected to this practical freedom as giving insufficient 
security for the maintenance of the national type of 

1 Rep. 376, Jowett's translation. 
2 Rep. 410. 3 . Ibid. 4 Ibid. ,412. 



14 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

character, but their objections were really retrograde and 
had no practical result. 

Till about the age of seven the Athenian boy was at 

home, engaging in those childish sports and 
Education in , -> -, -, * -, 

Early Youth, occupations which seem to be found in every 

age and in every country. About the age of 
seven he began to attend school, where the poetical and 
heroic literature of Greece supplied the material for his 
culture. But it was not till the age of twelve or thirteen 
that systematic physical training began. Before this his 
physical development had been left to free play, which was, 
of course, only a negative educative proceeding on the part 
of his guardians, but not the less wise on that account. 
At about thirteen the boy attended also at a school of 
physical training, called a palaestra, and 
thereafter till about the age of eighteen he 
divided his day pretty evenly between the 
two schools ; or, perhaps, between three, as literature and 
music were commonly taught in separate establishments. 
Lucian gives us a charming picture of the boy's day : " He 
gets up at dawn, washes the sleep from his eyes, and puts 
on his cloak. Then he goes out from his father's house, 
with his eyes fixed upon the ground, not looking at any 
one who meets him. Behind him follow attendants and 
paidagogoi, bearing in their hands the implements of virtue, 
writing- tablets or books containing the great deeds of old, 
or, if he is going to a music school, his well- tuned lyre. 

" When he has laboured diligently at intellectual studies, 
and his mind is sated with the benefits of the school 
curriculum, he exercises his body in liberal pursuits, riding 
or hurling the javelin or spear. Then the wrestling- school 
with its sleek, oiled pupils, labours under the mid-day sun, 
and sweats in the regular athletic contests. Then a bath, 
not too prolonged ; then a meal, not too large, in view of 



DISTORT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 15 

afternoon school. For the schoolmasters are waiting for 
him again, and the books which openly or by allegory teach 
him who was a great hero, who was a lover of justice and 
purity. With the contemplation of such virtues he waters 
the garden of his young soul. When evening sets a limit to 
his work, he pays the necessary tribute to his stomach and 
retires to rest, to sleep sweetly after his busy day." 1 

It is only with the physical side of this education that 

we are concerned, and it should be noted 

Physical that in addition to the formal and systematic 

Athens* "" training in the wrestling- school, or palaestra, 

it included exercise uncontrolled by the 

master of gymnastics, or, in other words, free play. The 

inclusion of this essential element of physical education 

in the Athenian scheme seems to have been frequently 

overlooked. 

Similar plans of education prevailed generally through- 
out Hellas except in the States modelled upon Sparta. In 
every city was at least one gymnasium, in every hamlet at 
least a palaestra ; and in these boys, youths, and men 
followed with assiduity the exercises which entered into the 
Olympic and other national games. 

In Athens and some other of the larger cities the gym- 
nasia were public institutions of considerable 
Gymnasia. g ^ ze ^ an( ^ con t a i ne <} not only exercise grounds 
but porticoes and other buildings and shady groves in 
which the citizens could walk and talk. For the gymnasia 
became, as has been aptly said, "the centre-points of 
Greek life." In them, besides the youths and young men 
engaged in the exercises, were to be found philosophers 
expounding their systems, rhetoricians teaching their art, 
citizens discussing politics or exchanging the gossip of 
the day. No women, of course, were present, but every 

1 Loves, 44-45 ; quoted by Freeman, Schools of Hellas, pp. 79-80. 



16 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

occupation which filled the abundant leisure of the 
Athenian citizen of means was there represented. 

In such a varied concourse it would not have been 
possible to keep the attention of young lads 
fixed on the exercises they had to learn, and 
so, though boys at times were to be found in the Athenian 
gymnasia, yet their physical education was carried on in 
the palaestrae, or open-air wrestling -schools to which 
reference has already been made. Here it was under the 
superintendence of an instructor called a paedotribe, a word 
meaning literally "boy-rubber," and so suggesting the 
important part rubbing the skin with oil and dust played 
in Greek physical training. The exercises were based 011 
those practised in the gymnasia, just as the latter were 
determined by the contests of the national games. Of 
course they were graduated both in amount and in severity, 
and the utmost care was taken to adapt each to the strength 
of the individual. All were carefully watched by the paedo- 
tribe or his assistant, who checked any ungainly or ineffec- 
tive motions. Frequently, to secure greater rhythm of 
movement, some of the exercises were performed to the 
sound of the flute. This was especially the case with 
dancing, to which as a means of developing a graceful 
carriage and a modest demeanour the Athenians attached 
considerable importance. 

All exercises were performed naked, whether in palaestra, 
in gymnasium, or in the national games. Thucydides tells 
us that the Spartans " were the first that, when they were 
to contend in the Olympic games, stripped themselves 
naked, and anointed their bodies with ointment : whereas, 
in ancient times, the champions did also in the Olympic 
games use breeches ; nor is it many years since this custom 
ceased." 1 Among the advantages claimed for this custom 
1 History, I. 6. Thucydides wrote in the fifth century B.C. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 17 

was that the trainer could the better see the action of the 
muscles in the trained. It appealed moreover to the pas- 
sionate love of the physical beauty of the youthful form 
which was so marked a Greek characteristic. 

On the careful adaptation of means to an ultimate aim 
at once moral and practical in the physical 
Exercises training Lucian is quite explicit: "We de- 

velop their bodies somewhat as follows : We 
strip them of their clothing ; as I remarked before, they 
are no longer delicate, and yet are not sufficiently compact 
for their life work. We consider that the first step is to 
accustom them to the air ; to render their bodies inured to 
each season, that neither with the heat they may be troubled 
nor may become exhausted from the frost. Next, we 
anoint their bodies with oil to soften them and to make 
them more sinewy. . . . After this, we devise various 
kinds of gymnastic exercises and place directors over each. 
We teach one to box and another the pancratian contest. 
We do this that they may become accustomed to endure 
hardships manfully and at the same time to avoid blows, 
and that not from fear of wounds they be turned back 
from their purpose. 

" This discipline works out in them two very important 
qualities that are of great value to us. They are prepared 
to be courageous in danger and to take little account of 
their bodies, but above all their bodies become stout and 
capable of endurance. Further, those who catch falls in 
wrestling learn to fall with safety, easily to rise again, to 
push, to embrace, to twist, to be able to endure strangling, 
and to send their antagonists into the air ; nor do those 
who exercise regard this part as useless, but without 
hesitation they grasp the first strong man they meet, even 
the very strongest. In this way their bodies are hardened 
to suffering and by constant toil become more robust. . . . 
PHY. ED. 2 



18 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

" Our young men . . . are tinged a dusky red by the 
sun, are masculine, have much spirit, show great zeal and 
manly courage, and furthermore enjoy excellent health. . . . 
You may depend upon it, only after long labour would he 
who has been subject to this training sweat, and very rarely 
would he show signs of weakness. ... So likewise, if 
disease and fatigue should unexpectedly attack such a body 
as our young men possess, they could neither readily dis- 
honour it nor easily conquer it. ... In fact, previous toil 
and pain have produced no loss of strength, but an increase, 
and that strength by being rekindled has become still greater. 

" We train our young men to run also ; we accustom 
them to endurance in a long race and encourage them to 
make a short distance in the quickest possible time. The 
course is not formed upon firm ground that will resist, but 
in the deep sand, where it is easy neither to step with firm- 
ness nor to lean forward, and where the foot is burdened 
with the yielding path. In addition to this, we exercise 
them in leaping ditches, if thought necessary, or any other 
impediments, even with their hands filled with leaden 
weights. They contest, further, in throwing the javelin 
to a long distance. Now, I believe you noticed something 
else in the gymnasium. The object was of brass and was 
rounded somewhat like a small shield, but it was without 
either handle or band. You examined it as it lay in the 
court. You thought it heavy, and from its smoothness 
hard to grasp. That, too, they raise in the air and throw 
to as great a distance as possible. Him who, by throwing 
the plate [i.e. the discus or quoit] the farthest, surpasses 
the others we honour. This exercise strengthens their 
shoulders and puts sinews in their toes. 

" Now, my friend, if you will listen, I shall explain why 
the mud and the dust, which at first seemed to you very 
ridiculous, were thrown down. In the first place, that the 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 19 

fall of the young men may not be hard, but that upon a 
soft surface they may be thrown with safety. Then it is 
necessary that the slipperiness of men sweating in the mud 
become greater a slipperiness which you likened to that 
of eels. We regard this also neither useless nor ridiculous. 
Whenever the contestants are compelled in this condition 
to seize one another with the vigour of antagonists and to 
hold those who are slipping from them, this effort lends 
not a little to the development of their strength and sinew. 
To grasp a person that is sweating in mud and oil, and to 
throw him while he is slipping hastily from your hands, is 
not a small thing to do. And, as I said before, all these 
practices are especially useful in time of war against our 
enemies ; for instance, if it be necessary at any time to 
catch a wounded friend and at once to bear him away, or 
to come upon an enemy unawares, to grasp him while 
surprised, and to secure him. That, while anticipating 
harder trials, our young men may bear smaller tasks with 
far greater contentment, we train them somewhat to excess. 

" Then, on the contrary, we regard the dust of service in 
preventing them from slipping their embrace. For while 
they were training in the mud to hold the one who tried 
to escape by reason of his slipperiness, they also became 
accustomed to slip from the hands of those who seized 
them, and that, too, even when cornered. And the dust 
likewise seems to hold in check the perspiration and to 
stop an excessive or sudden flow ; it thus husbands their 
strength for a longer time, and prevents injury from the 
winds that might blow upon their bodies while exposed and 
weakened. Furthermore, it scours off the filth also, and 
makes the man more glossy. . . . 

" These are some of the reasons why we subject our 
young men to exercise. We expect them to become a noble 
guard to our body politic, and that through their protection 



20 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

we shall live in the enjoyment of liberty. Should our 
enemies invade our territory, these will conquer them. In 
fact, to such an extent are they now a fear to our neighbours 
that most of the States are in awe of us and pay tribute. 
In time of peace we can manage much better those who are 
elated by nothing disgraceful. Nor are our young men 
thus turned from idleness to wantonness, but in such 
pursuits as these they wear away their leisure. Finally, 
whenever we can say that our youth, both in peace and in 
war, are fitted to do the noblest deeds, that they appear 
zealous for our highest honour, then we. possess that which 
I spoke of as the common weal, as the happy culmination 
of our civil prosperity." 1 

We have quoted at such length because Lucian gives us 
so vivid a picture of the strenuousness of the Greek train- 
ing, and at the same time shows us how carefully thought 
out it was even in its smallest details. Although the 
Greeks had no scientific knowledge of physiology, yet by 
careful observation of the effects of this or that exercise 
they produced a general system that has never on the 
whole been surpassed, while in the thoroughness with which 
they recognised physical training as an essential part of 
education they have never yet been equalled. Our future 
path will lead us to no such harmonious system. 

The gymnastic system was indirectly a training for 

war, and, as Lucian urges, the best training, 
The Ephebei. . ' . , . 

because it inured the body to fatigue, 

gave it the power of endurance, and developed spirit 
and persistence. Training for war by actual combats with 
arms as, for example, the mediaeval tournaments he 
condemns. " Away with your desire to try our young men 
in armour and to see them wounded. It is savage, terribly 
cruel, and, furthermore, utterly useless to slay our bravest 
1 Anacharsis. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 21 

and noblest men, any one of whom we might better use 
against our enemies." 1 

However, the necessity of accustoming the future citizen 
soldiers to military life and to military discipline was 
recognised. At Athens, as in Greek states generally, the 
young men, from about the age of eighteen to that of 
twenty, lived in garrison and performed the duties of 
frontier guards, having first taken a solemn oath of alle- 
giance to their country. That at Athens was as follows : 
" I will not disgrace my sacred weapons nor desert the 
comrade who is placed by my side. I will fight for things 
holy and things profane, whether I am alone or with others. 
I will hand on my fatherland greater and better than 
I found it. I will hearken to the magistrates, and obey 
the existing laws and those hereafter established by the 
people. I will not consent unto any that destroys or dis- 
obeys the constitution, but will prevent him, whether I am 
alone or with others. I will honour the temples and the 
religion which my forefathers established. So help me 
Aglauros, Enualios, Ares, Zeus, Thallo, Auxo, Hege- 



These 'ephebei,' as the young men were called, were 
under the direct supervision of the State, and special officers 
were placed in charge of them. In the earlier days their 
training was nearly entirely physical and military, but 
with the growth of intellectual interests in Athens a cul- 
tural element was introduced, and this grew continually 
larger. After the loss of Athenian independence the 
military organisation remained only in form, and the 
ephebei spent their time in studying rhetoric, philosophy, 
and other branches of knowledge. Finally, by amalga- 
mation with the established philosophical schools, the 

1 Anacharsis. 

2 Translation from Freeman's Schools of Hellas, p. 211. 



22 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

ephebic college became merged into the university of 
Athens. 

It appears then that the physical education of boys in 

Ancient Greece was, at its best, singularly 

Education complete, admirably adapted to the state of 

Girfs. henian life there and then to be lived > and desi g ned 
to co-operate with other parts of education 

so that the whole process might develop the Hellenic ideal 
of a man, self-reliant, loyal to his fatherland, and well- 
proportioned and harmonious both in body and in mind. 
When we turn to the training of girls, however, we find a 
very different system. The Athenian woman was essentially 
a house- wife who spent her time at home. Nor was she 
to any great extent a companion to her husband, who spent 
by far the greater part of his life abroad, or a guide to her 
sons, who after the age of seven were removed from her 
care so far as their education was concerned and were also 
but little at home during the day. Usually married early, 
her full training in household duties was regarded as the 
task of her husband, who thus had a better chance of 
moulding her to his wishes. 

We may gather an impression of the usual custom from 
the description of his wife given by Ischomachus in the 
(Economicus of Xenophon. " What could she have learnt, 
Socates, he said, when I received her ? for she came to me 
when not yet fifteen years old, and during the time pre- 
ceding that had lived under strict surveillance, in order 
that she might see as little as possible, hear as little as 
possible, and speak as little as possible. For do you not 
think that one must be content if she came merely knowing 
how to make a garment if she had wool given her, and 
having observed how the spinning tasks are apportioned to 
handmaids ? For certainly, he added, as to what concerns 
the appetite, Socrates, she had been thoroughly well brought 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 23 

up, and that seems to me to be the chief point of instruc- 
tion both for a man and for a woman." 1 

Again we see how the conception of life in this case 
narrow dictated the form of education. 

With the loss of Hellenic independence came a sterilisa- 
tion of Hellenic education. Life had been 

Decline of so bound up with public affairs that when 

Greek 

Education ^ e mana g em ent of these was taken out of 

the hands of the citizens, thought largely 
lost its content, and oratory its purpose. Thus a formal 
rhetoric usurped the place of living thought, and the way of 
saying a thing became of more value than the thing said. 
Similarly, on the physical side, the real aim and purpose 
was devitalised. No longer a preparation for the defence 
of the fatherland, the gymnastic exercises became more 
and more of the nature of recreation, and thus lost their 
strenuousness and with it their value as means of training 
character. They occupied, too, less and less of the time 
given to education, especially after the years of boyhood 
and early youth. The ephebei devoted themselves exclu- 
sively to rhetoric and cognate arts, and sought recreation 
more and more in sedentary amusements such as drinking 
and gaming. The national games were, then, bound to 
decay, as we have seen they did. In a word, with the loss 
of real national life, the national education ceased to have 
a distinct object, and became effete, even though it showed 
much intellectual brilliancy and sparkle. 

4. In the early Roman Republic the education of the 

children was entirely domestic, with a de- 
Physical finitely moral and very narrowly practical 
Education in . ~ ,, T . , . n ., , . in 
Ancient Rome aim - ^ n *" e physical side it was essentially 

a preparation for the life of a soldier, and 
included running, wrestling, swimming, throwing the 
1 (Economicus, VII. ; translation by Hayes. 



24 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

spear, and horsemanship. The adult citizens were trained 
in military evolutions in the Campus Martius, and after 
the exercises would swim across the Tiber to free them- 
selves from dust and sweat. A picture of this earlier 
education is given by Plutarch in his account of Cato. 
" Not only did he show him, too, how to throw a dart, to 
fight in armour, and to ride, but to box also and to endure 
both heat and cold, and to swim over the most rapid and 
rough rivers." 1 

When the Romans conquered the Macedonian Empire 
they came into very direct contact with Greek culture and 
education, both, however, as we have said, in a decadent 
form. But even so it was too idealistic and aesthetic in 
intention especially on the physical side to be assimi- 
lated perfectly by the practical Roman mind. 

Aemilius Paulus, the conqueror of Macedonia, is said to 
have been among the first to adopt for his son a form of 
physical training not purely military, and to entrust his 
intellectual education to learned Greeks. The fashion 
spread rapidly, and higher instruction in Rome became 
essentially Greek both in its content and in its rhetorical 
form. But the system of gymnastic training was never 
fully acclimatised. It is true that small private gymnasia 
were erected by some of the wealthier citizens, and that 
a public gymnasium was established by Nero, but the 
physical training had lost its vital purpose, and was little 
more than recreation, with none of the streuuousness, and 
consequently with none of the moral value, which had been 
so characteristic of it in Hellas. Indeed, in Rome the 
gymnasium was a mere adjunct to the baths, in which 
the Romans delighted to pass their time in an agreeable 
idleness. 

1 Quoted by Wilkins : Roman Education, p. 14. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 25 

The Eoman boys doubtless had sports, especially various 
games with balls, which promoted their physical develop- 
ment and cultivated agility, but as time went on physical 
training with any really serious purpose fell more and 
more into the background, and the idea of recreation 
reigned supreme. With growing luxury, too, recreation 
was increasingly sought by those beyond boyhood in more 
exciting, if less healthful, forms of amusement, such as 
dicing and other modes of gambling. 

Dancing, which had been a serious part of education 
among the Greeks, was by the Romans looked upon as 
unworthy the children of a free citizen. A passage from 
a speech of Scipio, delivered in B.C. 133, makes this clear. 
" They are taught unseemly tricks when they go with 
dancing boys and a lute and psaltery to the actors' training 
school. They learn to sing songs which our ancestors would 
have regarded as a disgrace to free-born lads. Free-born 
boys and girls, I say, go to a dancing school with pro- 
fessional dancers. When any one told me this, I could 
not get myself to believe that noblemen taught their 
children such things : but I was taken to the dancing 
school, and there upon my word I saw more than fifty 
boys and girls : among them one and this made me more 
sorry for my country than anything a boy of good family, 
the son of a candidate for office, not less than twelve years 
of age, dancing with castanets a dance which a vile slave- 
boy could not have danced without discredit." 1 

The Greek games, too, were in a sense imitated in their 
outword form, but their inward spirit was always absent. 
In Rome they were mere shows in which hired gladiators 
or prisoners engaged in contests, often to the death, with 
each other and with wild beasts, for the entertainment 

1 Quoted by Wilkins : Roman Education, pp. 34-35. 



26 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

of a populace growing ever more callous and more 
brutalised. 

Further, under the autocratic tyranny of the later Empire 
even this artificial and devitalised education borrowed froni 
Greece became more and more empty of any serious pur- 
pose ; more and more on the intellectual side the cultiva- 
tion of mere rhetorical display, while on the physical side 
it was nothing but amusement. The want of purpose in 
life and the want of purpose in education reacted upon 
each other, and in regarding the conjoint process we cease 
to wonder at the decline and fall of the great Roman 
Empire. 

5. The external instruments of this fall were the bar- 
barian races which for several centuries made 
Physical irruptions and settlements in various pro- 

^Middle 111 vinces of the Empire. These peoples were 
Ages. generally in a low stage of civilisation 

indeed, some were not far removed from 
the lowest savagery. 

An old Eoman soldier, Ammianus Marcellinus, towards 
the end of the fourth century thus described 
Barbarians ^ e -^- uus : " ^ e People called Huns, barely 
mentioned in ancient records, live beyond the 
Sea of Azof, on the border of the Frozen Ocean, and are a race 
savage beyond all parallel. At the very moment of birth 
the cheeks of their infant children are deeply marked by an 
iron, in order that the hair, instead of growing at the proper 
season on their faces, may be hindered by the scars ; 
accordingly the Huns grow up without beards and without 
any beauty. They all have closely knit and strong limbs 
and plump necks ; they are of great size, and low legged, 
so that you might fancy them two-legged beasts, or the 
stout figures which are hewn out in a rude manner with an 
axe on the posts at the end of bridges. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 27 

" They are certainly in the shape of men, however un- 
couth, and are so hardy that they neither require fire nor 
well-flavoured food, but live on the roots of such herbs as 
they get in the fields, or on the half -raw flesh of any animal, 
which they merely warm rapidly by placing it between their 
own thighs and the backs of their horses. 

" They never shelter themselves under roofed houses, but 
avoid them, as people ordinarily avoid sepulchres, as things 
not fit for common use. Nor is there even to be found 
among them a cabin thatched with reeds ; but they wander 
about, roaming over the mountains and the woods, and 
accustom themselves to bear frost and hunger and thirst 
from their very cradles. . . . 

" There is not a person in the whole nation who cannot 
remain on his horse day and night. On horseback they 
buy and sell, they take their meat and drink, and there 
they recline on the narrow neck of their steed, and yield to 
sleep so deep as to indulge in every variety of dream. . . . 

" None of them plough, or even touch a plough handle, 
for they have no settled abode, but are homeless and law- 
less, perpetually wandering in their waggons, which they 
make their homes." 1 

But soon, through contact with the Roman civilisation, 
they were greatly changed, and adopted some of the out- 
ward forms of a more refined life. The same was true, in 
varying degrees, of the Germanic tribes that poured into 
the Empire from northern Europe. But wherever they 
went they carried fire and desolation with them. St. 
Jerome, at the beginning of the fifth century, tells us : 
" Nations innumerable and most savage have invaded all 
Graul. . . . Mayence, formerly so noble a city, has been 
taken and ruined, and in the church many thousands of 

1 Quoted by Robinson : Readings in European History, vol. i. , 
pp. 35-36. 



28 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

men have been massacred. Worms has been destroyed 
after a long siege. Rheims, that powerful city, Amiens, 
Arras, Speyer, Strasburg all have seen their citizens led 
away captive into Germany. Aquitaine and the provinces 
of Lyons and Narbonne, all save a few towns, have been 
depopulated ; and these the sword threatens without, while 
hunger ravages within. . . . Spain, even, is in daily terror 
lest it perish, remembering the invasion of the Cimbri ; and 
whatsoever the other provinces have suffered once, they 
continue to suffer in their fear." l 

Among such peoples, and in such times, it is obvious 
that the training of the boys would be essentially in 
physical hardihood and endurance and largely given 
through early participation in the life of war and plunder 
led by the tribe. 

Even when, in the course of centuries, the barbarians 
had settled down more or less thickly in the 
Middle A ^ various P arts o tne Empire, and had adopted 
the culture and religion, and in many cases 
the speech of those they had conquered, this ideal of hardy 
manhood, and of the need of a training in youth adapted to 
secure it, remained. So throughout the Middle Ages life 
was largely an outdoor life, and all kinds of manly sports 
were the delight of me'n as well as of children. In our 
own land hunting, fishing, and hawking were favourite 
amusements. Boys were taught archery and slinging, 
and were encouraged to practise exercises, such as run- 
ning, leaping, wrestling, and swimming, which developed 
strength, agility, and power of endurance. 

Nor was this thought merely a matter of private interest. 
Especially was archery enjoined by authority, and it was 
part of the duty of the magistrates to be present at the 

1 Quoted by Robinson : op. cit., p. 44. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 29 

sports held on village green or at the town butts on 
Sundays and holy days, and to see that 
Official shooting with bow and arrow was not ne- 

gkcted. Apparently less serious games were 
more popular, for in 1363 the king, Edward 
III., wrote to the lord-lieutenant of Kent : 

" Whereas the people of our realm, gentle and simple 
alike, were wont formerly in their games to practise skill in 
archery, whence, by the help of Grod, it is well known that 
high honour and advantage came into our realm, and no mean 
advantage to ourselves in our feats of war, and that now, 
the said skill in archery having fallen almost wholly into 
disrepute, our people give themselves up to the throwing of 
stones and of wood and of iron ; and some to handball and 
football and hockey ; and to coursing and cock-fighting ; 
and some even to other unseemly sports that be less useful 
and manly ; whereby our realm which G-od forbid will 
soon, as it appeareth, be stripped of archers : 

"We, wishing that a fitting remedy be found in this 
matter, do hereby command you that, in all places in your 
county, liberties or 110 liberties, wheresoever you shall see 
fit, you have proclamation made to this effect : that every 
man in the same county, sobeit he be able-bodied, shall, 
upon holidays, make use, in his games, of bows and arrows, 
and learn and practise archery : 

" Moreover, that you prohibit all and sundry in our 
name from such stone, wood, and iron throwing ; handball, 
football, or hockey; coursing and cock-fighting; or other 
idle games; under penalty of imprisonment." 1 

In the next reign (1388) it was enacted that " Servants 
and labourers shall have bows and arrows, and use the 
same the Sundays and holydays, and leave all playing at 

1 Rymer: Foedera, iii. 704. Quoted in English History from 
Original Sources, 1307-1399, Part II., pp. 10-11. 



30 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

tennis and football and other games called coits, dice, cast- 
ing of the stone, skittles, and other such importune games." 
In every village two acres of land near the church were re- 
served for this purpose, and long after the fourteenth century 
it was held to be by custom unlawful for the lord of the 
manor to plough them or in any other way to break them up. 
Physical training was evidently conceived by the authori- 
ties in the narrowest practical way as a direct 
The Church training for war, and by the populace as 
Educatfon Cal essentially recreative. This latter was, on 
the whole, the practical doctrine of the 
Church, though always with a tendency to limit the 
amount of recreation considered necessary. In the earliest 
ages of Christianity life was generally viewed from an 
ascetic standpoint. The force of bodily appetites was 
fully recognised, the effects of unbridled licence were only 
too visible in the corrupt society of the later Empire, and 
the great aim of the Christian, who though in the world 
was not of it, was to " keep under the body and bring it 
into subjection." The highest ideal of life, then, was one 
that aimed at the negation of all bodily delights and the 
voluntary infliction of all kinds of bodily vexations. The 
extravagances of some of the earlier hermits and monks 
exemplified this in its most extreme form. 

The adoption of Christianity as the official religion of 
the Roman Empire, however, wrought a great change. 
Multitudes joined the Church without any deep conviction 
of the truth of her doctrines or any real attachment to her 
views of life. An ideal which had seemed attainable to a 
persecuted and zealous few was unsuited as a model for the 
very moderately enthusiastic many. Moreover, the Church 
soon had to face the flood of barbarism which flowed over 
the Empire, and was, perforce, content if she induced her 
rough converts to lead a moderately decent life, and to 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 31 

accept as the rule of conduct the prohibition of open and 
notorious evil-doing. A kind of two-fold conception of 
life was the inevitable outcome of the conditions of the 
time. For clergy, monks, and nuns, who devoted their 
lives to religion, the Church laid down, as the rule of life, a 
modified form of asceticism, in which austerities were com- 
mended, though solely for the sake of spiritual advance- 
ment. For the mass of the people she showed toleration 
of a much more material and much less spiritual life, 
content if they accepted her teaching, and gave heed to her 
admonitions. 

For the former the training had an entirely religious 
aim, and an essential part of it was that negative but very 
real form of physical education which consists in the 
denial of bodily appetite, the avoidance of bodily ease, and 
the infliction of bodily austerities. But this ascetic training 
was enforced upon none save those who voluntarily sought 
the ' religious ' life, and even among them the only 
compulsory rule was mild, though freedom was given for 
individual attempts to attain greater sanctity through 
increased physical privations. 

For the latter the Church undertook the teaching of 
religion, morals, and secular learning, and to the scholars 
in her schools she gave times of leisure for recreation. But 
in the nature of the recreation she did not interfere, so 
long as it was innocent and did not encroach on the time 
apportioned to study. For example, the early statutes 
of the colleges at Oxford and Cambridge contain nothing 
which encourages or authorises physical exercises, but 
much intended to restrict them. Even "playing with a 
ball or a bat " is at times forbidden as an " insolent " 
game. Doubtless many of the students in practice indulged 
in hawking and other forbidden amusements with all the 
greater zest on account of such prohibitions. Nothing 



32 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

could restrain the exuberant vitality of the Middle Ages, 
with its love of outdoor sports, the gratification of which 
was easy on account of the smallness of the towns and the 
accessibility of open country and of forest. 

In one way, indeed, mediaeval schools, like those both in 

ancient Rome and many in more modern 
Punishments times, gave a real physical training, though 
Schools. on ^ e scholar's part it was passive in its 

character. The severity and frequency of 
the punishments were certainly calculated to cultivate 
fortitude in bearing pain. Of course, this severity was, 
much more in the Middle Ages than in later times, a reflex 
of the roughness of manners generally ; but it was deliber- 
ately adopted even by the most kindly teachers of children 
as designed to advance their moral good. " Spare the rod 
and spoil the child " was a universally accepted maxim 
was it not the advice of Solomon, the wisest of men ? Nor 
do the boys seem to have regarded these punishments as 
cruelties. They all came in the day's work, and to many 
doubtless were no more repugnant than the Latin and 
Logic which were the chief articles in their mental diet. 
In Germany the annual school festival was called the 
Procession of the Eod. " Led by the teachers, and accom- 
panied by half the town, the schoolboys went into the 
woods, where they themselves procured the materials for 
their own castigation. When this was done they amused 
themselves with gymnastic feats and other sports under 
the trees, and ended up with a feast, given by their parents 
and teachers, and then returned to the town, laughing and 
joking, and laden with the instruments for their punish- 
ment." l 



1 Janssen : History of the German People at the Close of the 
Middle Ages, Vol. I., p. 76. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 33 

Reviewing the common life of boys in the Middle Ages, 
then, we see that though there was much 
General physical exercise and many games, and 

Survey of though none was debarred from taking part 
Phys?c^J a in them by being immured in a dense town 

Training. extending for miles in every direction around 

him, and with little or 110 open space for 
play ; and though, on the other hand, schools were 
numerous and well attended; yet that intellectual and 
physical training were not welded into one harmonious 
whole. 

In comparing this with ancient Athens it must be borne 
in mind that in the latter the full education we have 
sketched was only the heritage of the sons of the free 
citizens, who were a minority of the total population. Yet 
it is evident that the Christian distrust of the body " the 
flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the 
flesh ; and these are contrary the one to the other " ] took 
in the Middle Ages a form which in fact defeated its own 
object. For physical vitality must find a vent, and if the 
superabundant energies of youth are not directed into 
desirable channels they will expend themselves in un- 
desirable ways, and the fact that they are indulged in, 
though forbidden, is evidently antagonistic to the develop- 
ment of a law-abiding spirit. Plato saw the dangers of 
appetite that " many-headed monster," as he called it 
as plainly as did mediaeval monks and clergy, but he also 
saw clearly, what was not evident to them, that it is by 
regulation and control, not by attempted negation and 
annihilation, that the battle of the spirit against the flesh 
is to be won. 

The education of girls was, throughout the Middle 

1 Gal. v. 17. 

PHY, ED. 3 



34 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

Ages, essentially domestic, though ladies went riding and 
hawking, and peasant women worked much in the fields. 
There was, however, one mediaeval institution and that 

an essentially educative one which in its 
The m theory did regard life as a whole, however 

Chivalry 11 much in its practice it may have made it 

little but physical and military. That was 
Chivalry, which in its essence was an order of merit. The 
knight was not born to the honour he had to attain it by 
valour and other chivalric virtues. The whole institution 
enjoyed the benediction of the Church, and the ceremonies 
of initiation into knighthood were largely religious. 

Under chivalry the castle of every noble was a school to 
which sons of gentlemen were sent soon after seven years 
of age. As pages they learned the rules of courtesy and 
the usages and amusements of polite society from the 
ladies of the house, were taught to read and write by the 
chaplain, and at the same time took the first steps in 
their military training. All kinds of exercises were taught 
them, such as wrestling, boxing, leaping, running, riding, 
throwing darts and spears, and perhaps tilting at ring or 
quintain. Their instructors were the squires, who were 
required " to learn them to ride cleanly and surely, to draw 
them also to jousts, to learn them wear their harness, to 
have all courtesy in words, deeds, and degrees . . . more- 
over to teach them sundry languages and other learnings 
virtuous, to harping, to pipe, sing, dance . . . with cor- 
rections in their chambers." l 

At fourteen the boy became a squire and his attendance 
was thenceforth on his master, though he might still play 
chess or sing verses in his lady's bower. On the physical 
side the training was essentially military, and to learn the 

1 Liber Niger in Household Ordinances, p. 45, quoted by Furni- 
vall: Forewords, E.E.T.S., 1867, p. ii (spelling modernised). 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 35 

management of the long lance, which was so characteristic 
an arm of the armoured knight, was no small part of it. 
The chief mode of acquiring this skill was by tilting at a 
suspended ring so as to carry it away on the point of the 
lance, or at the quintain, a target turning on a pivot and 
taking many fanciful forms, not infrequently that of a 
man, but always so contrived that if not struck fairly in 
the centre it swung round and gave the unskilful striker a 
clout on the back, a smothering with meal, or a sousing 
with water. 

In the history of Boucicaut, a marshal of France who 
was one of the prisoners taken at Agincourt, we have a 
vivid, if in parts somewhat highly coloured, picture of the 
exertions of a young squire to make himself worthy of 
knighthood: "Now cased in armour, he would practise 
leaping on to the back of a horse ; anon, to accustom himself 
to become long-winded and enduring, he would walk and 
run long distances on foot, or he would practise striking 
numerous and forcible blows with a battle-axe or mallet. 
In order to accustom himself to the weight of his armour, 
he would turn somersaults whilst clad in a complete suit of 
mail, with the exception of his helmet, or would dance 
vigorously in a shirt of steel ; he would place one hand on 
the saddle-bow of a tall charger, and the other on his neck, 
and vault over him. . . . He would climb up between two 
perpendicular walls that stood four or five feet asunder by 
the mere pressure of his arms and legs, and would thus 
reach the top, even if it were as high as a tower, without 
resting either in the ascent or descent. . . . When he was 
at home he would practise with the other young esquires 
at lance-throwing and other warlike exercises, and this 
continually." 1 

1 Quoted by Lacroix : Military and Religious Life in the Middle 
Ages, p. 146. 



36 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

But chivalry was essentially an institution suited to a 
continuous state of war. It had regulated the warlike 
spirit and made it amenable to the laws of honour, and, so 
far as was possible, to the dictates of religion. As con- 
ditions changed, and feudal fiefs were consolidated into 
kingdoms, the opportunities for war became fewer. More- 
over the conditions of war were totally altered by the 
invention of gunpowder, though the supremacy of the 
armoured knight had for some time before been challenged 
by pike and bow. So the tournament, which had been a 
real field for training and practising the knightly ideal, 
degenerated into mere amusement, and ceased to be a true 
school of war. The signs of decay which were evident in 
the fourteenth century became more and more strongly 
marked in the fifteenth, and in the sixteenth chivalry may 
be said to have died. 

On its general influence Mr. Cornish well says : " Chivalry 
taught the world the duty of noble service willingly 
rendered. It upheld courage and enterprise in obedience 
to rule, it consecrated military prowess to the service of 
the Church, glorified the virtues of liberality, good faith, 
unselfishness, and courtesy, and, above all, courtesy to 
women. Against these may be set the vices of pride, 
ostentation, love of bloodshed, contempt of inferiors, and 
loose manners. Chivalry was an imperfect discipline, but 
it was a discipline, and one fit for the times. It may have 
existed in the world too long : it did not come into exist- 
ence too early : and with all its shortcomings it exercised a 
great and wholesome influence in raising the mediaeval 
world from barbarism to civilisation." l 

6. Not only chivalry but the whole of the mediaeval 
organisation of European society was breaking up under a 

1 Chiralry, pp. 27-28. 



HISTORY OP PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 37 

new spirit of enterprise and of individual independence. 

To this that revived interest in the ancient 
Physical literatures and arts of Greece and Borne 

in the 1<m which we know as the Eenaissance contri- 
Renaissance. buted in no small degree. As the old pagan 

spirit was absorbed, the dignity and worth of 
man's life here on earth was again recognised, and at first 
it seemed as if the Italy of the fifteenth century might 
evolve a conception of education as harmonious as that 
of ancient Athens. The princely Eenaissance schools 
notably that at Mantua over which Vittorino da Feltre 
presided from 1423 to 1446 made physical training an 
essential part of education, and insisted on exercise in 
riding, running, leaping, fencing, and games of ball being 
taken in the open air daily, regardless of the weather. 
This practice was quite in harmony with the writers 011 

education, whose tracts, indeed, were little 

more than reproductions of classical treatises. 
They had in view very largely the education of princes and 
nobles, and partly on this account, partly because war 
was still so common, partly because of the chivalric tradi- 
tion, training in military exercises plays an important part 
in their schemes. The general spirit of their teaching is 
best represented in English in Sir Thomas Elyot's Boke 
named the Governour, published in 1531, which owed 
much to the Italian writers of the preceding century. 

Elyot devotes considerable space to physical exercises, 
which are " apt to the furniture of a gentleman's personage, 
adapting his body to hardness, strength, and agility, and 
to help therewith himself in peril, which may happen in 
wars or other necessity." 1 The exercises are examined in 
detail, the possible advantage of each in war is brought 
out. Hunting is commended, especially if most " of the 
1 Chapter XVI. 



38 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

disport be iii pursuing with javelins and other weapons, in 
manner of war." 1 On dancing Elyot has much to say, 
and from its practice he anticipates many worthy results, 
such as the development of magnanimity, constancy, honour, 
wisdom, continence, and prudence, provided only that the 
two sexes dance together. 

In 1557 Andrew Borde in his tract on Sleep, Rising, and 
Dress advises his reader : " Before you go to your refection 
moderately exercise your body with some labour, or playing 
at the tennis, or casting a bowl, or poising weights or 
plummets of lead in your hands, or some other thing, to 
open your pores and to augment natural heat." 

In France, Rabelais, in his Gargantua, first published in 
1532, advocates the fullest physical culture, and gives his 
giant hero a surfeit of every exercise known at the time, 
pupil and tutor " gallantly exercising their bodies as before 
they had done their minds." Nor were military exercises 
omitted. Gargantua " did cast the dart, throw the bar, 
put the stone, practise the javelin, the boar-spear or 
partisan, and the halbert." He also did wonderful feats 
with the cross-bow, and in climbing, poising weights, 
and other exercises "for the strengthening of his nerves." 
Amid all the exaggeration everywhere present in Rabelais, 
the doctrine that physical training is an essential part of 
education is evidently asserted. 

Some half a century later Montaigne taught the same 
doctrine. In his essay Of the Education of Children he 
says " it is not enough to fortify his soul, you are also to 
make his sinews strong ; for the soul will be oppressed, if 
not assisted by the body, and would have too hard a task 
to discharge two offices alone. . . . Inure him to heat and 
cold, to wind and sun, and to dangers that he ought to 
despise. Wean him from all effeminacy in clothes and 
1 Chapter XVIII. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 39 

lodging, eating and drinking ; accustom him to everything, 
that he may not be a Sir Paris, a carpet-knight, but a 
sinewy, hardy, and vigorous young man." And again, " Our 
very exercises and recreations, running, wrestling, music, 
dancing, hunting, riding, and fencing, will prove to be a 
good part of our study. I would have his outward be- 
haviour and mien, and the disposition of his limbs, formed 
at the same time with his mind. It is not a soul, it is not 
a body, that we are training up ; it is a man, and we ought 
not to divide him into two parts ; and as Plato says, we 
are not to fashion one without the other, but make them 
draw together like two horses harnessed to a coach." 

In theory, then, the Renaissance writers on education 

fully recognised that the body as well as the 
The Practice, mind needed culture, and that the latter 

could not be properly developed unless the 
former was also trained. And in the life of the gentry, 
especially in England, outdoor sports continued to play an 
important part. In the time of Queen Mary, the Venetian 
ambassador, Griacomo Soranza, writes that the English 
nobility live much in their country houses, where " they 
occupy themselves Vith hunting of every description, and 
whatever else can amuse or divert them," and towards the 
end of the century the secretary of a German prince who 
had visited England bears similar testimony. "But," 
goes on our Venetian, " the English do not delight much 
either in military pursuits or literature, which last, most 
especially by the nobility, is not held in much account, and 
they have scarcely any opportunity for occupying them- 
selves with the former, save in time of war, and when that 
is ended they think no more of it, but in battle they show 
great courage and great presence of mind in danger, but 
they require to be largely supplied with victuals." 1 
1 Quoted in Illustrated History : Tudor Period, p. 154. 



40 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

The custom of wearing swords and daggers led, of course, 
to the learning of fencing and sword play, and in 1565 
Elizabeth found it necessary to issue a proclamation to 
limit and control " the schools of fence," in which not only 
gentlemen but "the multitude and the common people" 
were being taught " to play at all kinds of weapons," and 
to regulate the size of dagger and rapier. 

We get a glimpse at the common sports in Scotland in 
James Melville's account of his boyhood at Montrose, about 
1570, where he tells us he was taught archery and single- 
stick, and to run, leap, swim, wrestle, and play golf. 

In a contemporary poem by Johnson, Headmaster of 
Winchester from 1560 to 1571, we have an account of life 
at that famous old school in the middle of the sixteenth 
century. Among other things he describes the " Pro- 
cession " up St. Catherine's Hill which the boys made three 
times a week, the only occasions on which they were not 
confined to the college meadow. When " the top of Hills 
is reached, they break off, but must not go beyond Trench, 
nor dare to sit on the ground for fear of fever. Then they 
play games, quoits, hand-ball, bat-ball, or tennis, or foot- 
ball, and other games." 1 

Other evidence of the recognition of games in English 
schools is afforded by the ordinances made by the bailiffs 
of the town on the re-foundation in 1549 of Shrewsbury 
School, after the destruction of the old Church schools by 
the dissolution of the monasteries and by the Chantry Acts. 
These ordinances " direct that the scholars shall play only 
on Thursday, unless there be a holy-day in the week, or at 
the earnest request of some man of honour, or of great 
worship, credit, or authority. Their play was to be ' shoot- 
ing in the long bow, and chess play, and no other games, 

1 Leach : History of Winchester College, p. 270. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 41 

unless it be running, wrestling, or leaping, and no game to 
be above Id., or match over 4d.' It is further provided 
that on every Thursday 'before they go to play,' the 
scholars ' shall for exercise declaim and play one act of a 
comedy.' " l 

Similar evidence of the attempt to maintain archery as a 
school sport is found in the provisions made for Harrow 
School by its founder, John Lyon, in 1571. These required 
all parents sending boys to the school to " allow them at 
all times bow-shafts, bow-strings, and a bracer." Long 
after archery had ceased to have a military significance it 
was continued as one of the recognised sports at Harrow, 
and annual shooting matches were held. " Originally six, 
but subsequently twelve, boys contended for a silver arrow. 
These competitors were all habited in fancy dresses, usually 
of silk or satin, spangled ; the colours white and green, or 
white and red, with sashes and caps of silk to match. He 
who shot within the three circles of the target was saluted 
with a nourish of French horns, and he who first sent 
twelve arrows nearest the central mark was proclaimed 
victor, and carried home the silver arrow amid the accla- 
mations of the school." 3 However, the artificiality and 
indifference of the eighteenth century were too strong for 
the old custom, and after 1771 the Harrow shooting matches 
are heard of no more. 

The best testimony to the fact that in the sixteenth 

century some English school authorities 
Mulcaster. r , , , . ,. 

were interested in physical education is 

furnished by the writings of Richard Mulcaster, the 
first Head Master of the school founded in 1561 by 
the Merchant Taylors' Company. He retained that posi- 
tion for a quarter of a century, and was afterwards High 

1 Staunton : The Great Schools of England, p. 426. 
- Ibid., pp. 332-3. 



42 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

Master of the yet more famous school of St. Paul's. In 
1581 Mulcaster published his Positions, certainly one of 
the soundest treatises on education produced by the 
Eenaissance. " This work," as he says in his Dedicatory 
Epistle to Queen Elizabeth, " pretendeth a common good, 
because it concerneth the general train and bringing up 
of youth, both to enrich their minds with learning, and to 
enable their bodies with health." 

About one-third of the whole treatise is devoted to the 
physical side of education. First the necessity of physical 
training is emphasised : " For as the powers of the soul 
come to no proof, or to very small, if they be not fostered 
by their natural train, but wither and die, like corn not 
reaped, but suffered to rot by negligence of the owner, or 
by contention in challenge : even so, nay much more, the 
body being of itself lumpish and earthy, must needs either 
die in drowsiness, or live in looseness, if it be not stirred 
diligently to the best." l On the other hand, if due 
exercise be taken much advantage ensues. " Be not these 
great benefits ? to defend the body by defeating diseases ? 
to stay the mind, by strengthening of her mean ? to assist 
nature being both daily, and dangerously, assailed both 
within and without ? to help life to continue long ? to 
force death to keep far aloof ? " 2 But to secure these 
benefits " the exercises must alter and be appropriate to 
each," because " all constitutions be not of one and the 
same mould." 3 

Mulcaster divides exercises into three main classes. 
" All exercises were first devised, and so indeed served, 
either for games and pastime, for war and service, or for 
surety of health and length of life, though sometime all 
the three ends did concur in one, sometimes they could 

1 Positions, Chapter 6 (spelling modernised). 

2 Ibid. 3 Ibid. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 43 

not." l He then discusses the exercises in detail, telling 
us that " out of the whole heap I have picked out these 
for within doors loud speaking, singing, loud reading, 
talking, laughing, weeping, holding the breath, dancing, 
wrestling, fencing, and scourging the top. And these for 
without doors walking, running, leaping, swimming, 
riding, hunting, shooting [i.e. archery], and playing at the 
ball." To the objection that " some of them may be said 
to be most proper to men, and far above boys' play," he 
answers, " you must remember that I deal for all students, 
and not for children alone, to whom it is in choice, besides 
all these to devise other for their good, as circumstance 
shall lead them." 2 

As to laughing and weeping, Mulcaster includes them, 
" seeing that they are thought to stir and clear some 
parts," but he values them inversely to the custom of the 
schools of his day. " The more children laugh for exercise, 
the more lightsome they be ; the more they weep, if it be 
not in jest, so much the worse in very good earnest." 3 

Football was then popular, but was played in so rough 
a fashion that Elyot had condemned it as a game " wherein 
is nothing but beastly fury and extreme violence ; whereof 
proceedeth hurt, and consequently rancour and malice do 
remain with them that be wounded ; wherefore it is to 
be put to perpetual silence." 4 Towards this game Mul- 
caster takes his usual sane and judicious attitude, urging 
for reform and not abolition. " Football," he says, " could 
not possibly have grown to this greatness that it is now at, 
nor have been so much used as it is in all places, if it had 
not had great helps both to health and strength, and to 
me the abase of it is a sufficient argument that it hath a 
right use ; which being revoked to his primitive will both 

1 Positions, Chapter 8. ~ Ibid., Chapter 9. 

3 Ibid., Chap. 14. 4 The Gorcrnour, Book I., Chap. XXVII. 



44 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

help strength and comfort nature: though as it is now 
commonly used, with thronging of a rude multitude, with 
bursting of shins and breaking of legs, it be neither civil, 
neither worthy the name of any train to health." l 

To obtain full value from exercises Mulcaster insists 
that, so far as possible, they should be performed in the 
open air, and that the most profitable time is the morning 
" somewhat before meat." There should be neither excess 
nor defect. " All they which use exercises use them either 
not so much as they should, and that doeth small good ; 
or more than they should, and that doeth much harm ; or 
so as they should, and that doeth much good." 2 Much 
depends on age. " Men of middle age must of necessity 
keep the mean limit, because too much offends them, too 
little doeth them little good; both hinder the state of 
their bodies. Youth from seven till one and twenty will 
abide much exercising very well : wherefore they are 
allowed without danger to be hot and chafe, to puff and 
blow, to sweat, to be weary also to some degree of lassi- 
tude. . . . And yet there must be great eye had to them 
that they keep within compass, and so much the more the 
less they be above seven year old." 3 

To secure this, the physical training of school boys should 
be under supervision, and in order that it may be fitted as 
an integral factor into one educative process Mulcaster 
would place it under the schoolmaster. " In this my train 
I couch both the parts under one master's care. For while 
the body is committed to one, and the soul commended to 
another, it falleth out most times that the poor body is 
miserably neglected, while nothing is cared for but only the 
soul." 4 

1 Positions, Chapter 27. 

2 Ibid., Chapter 33. 3 Ibid. 

4 Ibid., Chapter 35. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 45 

Of course this requires skill in the master, " for if he be 
skilful himself it almost needs not to give precept," and 
" your skill is small to think that any small skill can do 
anything well." But this will be attained if once the 
schoolmaster " be ravished with the excellence and worthi- 
ness of the thing which he is to execute " and believe that 
" he may very easily attain unto some singular knowledge in 
so noble a subject." 1 In nothing will real skill be more 
shown than in that discretion which adapts the exercises to 
each individual case. 

Throughout, the discussion is of the utmost interest, and 
from the intimate way in which Mulcaster speaks of the 
details of the training and the earnestness with which he 
recommends it it is not a violent inference to suppose that 
something of the kind was practised in his time at the 
Merchant Taylors' School, though there were no signs of it 
in the next century. He acknowledges his indebtedness to 
the work of " Hieronymus Mercurialis, a very learned 
Italian physician now in our time, which hath taken great 
pains to sift out of all writers whatsoever concerneth the 
whole Gymnastical." 2 The treatment of the subject in 
Mercurialis' De Arte Gymnastica was, indeed, more exhaus- 
tive than that of Mulcaster another instance that Eenais- 
sance theory recognised the importance of the subject. 

7. Mulcaster himself, however, has hinted at an 

increasing practical neglect of the subject 

cation In the m scno l s " most times the poor body 

Seventeenth is miserably neglected." This neglect 

Centurfes teentl1 was y et more universal on the con- 
tinent. 

Both in Germany and in England an immediate effect 

of the Eeformation had been the suppression of many 

1 Ibid. 2 Ibid. 



46 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

schools, especially those connected with monasteries and 
chantries, and thus the cessation of formal 
Decadence education for many boys. No longer united 
by the bond of fellowship involved in being 
schoolmates, they roamed the streets of the towns and the 
lanes of the villages, developing a lawlessness of which 
there are many and bitter complaints in the writings of 
the time. When schools were re-established, or new ones 
founded, they were dominated by the later Renaissance 
worship of literary form, and made it their one aim to teach 
their pupils to speak and write Latin as nearly as might be 
in the style of Cicero. It is true that Luther commended 
physical exercises as preventives of drunkenness and other 
vices, and that Trotzendorf, the disciple of Melancthon, 
permitted the boys in his school to wrestle and run, though 
he forbade them to skate or slide on the ice or to throw 
snowballs in the winter, and to bathe in cold water in the 
summer. But the fashion for the schools of Protestant 
Europe was set by Sturm, rector of the gymnasium at 
Strasburg from 1537 to 1584, into whose conception of a 
complete education physical training did not enter. 

In Catholic Europe the great educators were the Jesuits, 
who regarded bodily exercise mainly as a means of recrea- 
tion, to be encouraged only so far as it was necessary to 
enable the mind to do the most efficient intellectual work. 

Moreover, there was spreading throughout Protestant 
Europe a form of Puritan asceticism which differed from 
the asceticism of the middle ages in that, while the latter 
was individual and voluntary, the former aimed at being 
universal and compulsory. First seen in its severest form 
at Geneva under the rule of Calvin, it spread north, domi- 
nated Scotland under the Kirk, and established a short- 
lived reign in England under the Commonwealth. Drawing 
their inspiration in this, as in other matters, largely from 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 47 

the Old Testament, the Calvinists transferred to the 
Christian Sunday the regulations imposed in quite other 
conditions by the Mosaic law for the observance of 
the Hebrew Sabbath. Sunday had in mediaeval times 
been a holy day, and, like other holy days, had been 
marked by attendance at church. But after that duty was 
performed it was considered quite consistent with the 
" keeping holy " of the day to engage in those physical 
exercises which conduced to health both of body and 
mind. This was abhorrent to the Calvinists, to whom, 
indeed, innocent enjoyment at any time was looked upon 
at the best with suspicion. 

The gradual spread of these opinions led naturally to a 
decay of physical exercise among adults, for Sunday was 
the only day available to the majority for such pursuits. 
This reacted on the minds of the youths, ever anxious to 
imitate their elders. " The Lord's Day," says Fuller, 
" began to be precisely kept, people becoming a law to 
themselves, forbearing such sports as were yet by statute 
permitted ; yea, many rejoicing at their own restraint 
herein. On this day the stoutest fencer laid aside his 
buckler ; the most skilful archer unbent his bow, counting 
all shooting beside the mark ; nay, games and morris - 
dances grew out of request." 1 

James I. made an effort to check this movement by 
issuing his Declaration of Sports in 1618. In the course of 
this document he says : "As for our good people's lawful 
recreation, our pleasure likewise is, that after the end of 
Divine service, our good people be not disturbed, letted, or 
discouraged from any lawful recreation, such as dancing, 
either men or women, archery for men, leaping, vaulting, 
or any other such harmless recreation. . . . But withal, we 

1 Quoted in Social England, Vol. IV., p. 33. 



48 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

do here account still as prohibited all unlawful games to 
be used upon Sundays only, as bear and bull-baitings, 
interludes, and at all times to the meaner sort of people, 
by law prohibited, bowling." l However, the Puritan outcry 
which followed caused the Declaration to be withdrawn. 
It was reissued by Charles in 1633, but when the 
Puritans obtained the ascendency ten years later it was 
ordered to be burnt publicly, and "all persons were for- 
bidden under heavy penalties, to be present on the Lord's 
Day at any wrestling, shooting, bowling, ringing of bells 
for pleasure, masques, wakes, church-ale games, dancing, 
or other pastime." 2 Next year all games and sports, 
all buying and selling, and all worldly labour except 
the " dressing of meat in private families " were for- 
bidden. 

Under the Commonwealth these laws were strictly 
enforced, and games and amusements on other days than 
Sunday were regarded with the utmost disfavour by the 
authorities. In Scotland the feelings of the Calvinist 
preachers were shared fully by the people, the majority 
of whom became noted for gravity of manners, but in 
England there was a considerable reaction after the 
Restoration. Some of the old games and sports were 
again indulged in, but the tendency was rather to partici- 
pate in the more undesirable of the old amusements, such 
as cock-fighting, bear-baiting, and prize-fighting, than in 
those which are of value in promoting health and manli- 
ness. Moreover, the sabbatical tradition as to Sunday 
remained sufficiently strong to keep people from harmless 
sports if it was not efficacious in restraining them from 
vicious indulgences. 

An idea of the games played by children in Germany, 
and probably in England, in the middle of the seventeenth 
1 Somers Tracts. 2 Social England, Vol. IV., p. 229. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 49 

century may be gathered from tlie list given by Comenius 
in the Orbis Pictus, a school book intended to teach Latin 
and at the same time to draw attention to the common things 
of life. After chapters describing fencing, tennis, dicing, 
and racing, Comenius gives one to Boys' sports : " Boys 
use to play either with bowling- stones or throwing a bowl 
at nine-pins ; or striking a ball through a ring with a 
bandy ; or scourging a top with a whip ; or shooting with 
a trunk and a bow ; or going upon stilts ; or tossing, and 
swinging themselves upon a merry-rotter." l 

The gradual declension even of the gentry of England 
during the seventeenth century from the standard of 
physical life of their fathers is shown in Peacham's 
Compleat Gentleman, a treatise on education published in 
1634, which gives a trustworthy record of the manners, 
education, and way of thinking of the cavaliers of the 
time. Peacham complains of " that effeminacy of the 
most, that burn all day and night in their beds, and by 
the fireside." 2 He recommends the practice of running, 
leaping, swimming, hawking, hunting, and above all 
archery, which "is a very healthful and commendable 
recreation for a gentleman ; neither do I know any other 
comparable unto it for stirring every part of the body." 
But he objects to throwing and wrestling as " exercises 
not so well beseeming nobility, but rather soldiers in a 
camp or a prince's guard." Nor is he inclined to " run- 
ning at the tilt," for though it " is a generous and martial 
exercise," yet it is " hazardous and full of danger." 3 

No clearer proof can be given of the dislocation between 
the studies of the schools and universi- 
ties with tlieir arid scholasticism and the 
actual life of the world than the establish- 
ment of the Courtly Academies in France. Chivalry was 

1 Chapter 136. 2 Chapter 16. 3 Ibid. 

PHY. ED. 4 



50 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

dead, but these academies were glorified successors of the. 
schools which chivalry had maintained. They were first 
founded by great nobles in the closing years of the six- 
teenth century essentially as schools of arms, but before 
long they developed into schools of liberal culture as well. 

In Evelyn's Diary we have brief notices of two of these 
academies. He tells us 1 : "I often went to the Palais 
Cardinal, bequeathed by Richelieu to the king, on condi- 
tion that it should be called by his name. . . . Here 
I also frequently went to see them ride and exercise the 
great horse, especially at the Academy of Monsieur du 
Plessis, and de Yeau, whose schools of that art are 
frequented by the nobility ; and here also young gentle- 
men are taught to fence, dance, play on music, and some- 
thing in fortification and the mathematics. The design is 
admirable, some keeping near an hundred brave horses, all 
managed to the great saddle." Five months later he 
visited the* Academy at Richelieu which the Cardinal 
himself had founded in 1640. In this Academy " besides 
the exercise of the horse, arms, dancing, etc., all the 
sciences are taught in the vulgar French by professors 
stipendiated by the great Cardinal." 2 

Similar academies were established in Germany under 
the name of Ritterakademien, which from the middle of 
the seventeenth to the middle of the eighteenth century 
gave the young German nobility a courtly and military 
education calculated to fit them to lead the life to which 
manhood would call them. 

In England Academies did not nourish, though Milton 
wrote his Tractate on Education to advocate their estab- 
lishment and to suggest how they should be organised. The 

1 Under date April 6, 1644. 

2 Under date September 14, 1644. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 51 

day's work was to be divided into three parts, " their 
studies, their exercise, and their diet." Their exercises 
were to be both military and general, and the whole 
scheme was designed to give "a complete and generous 
education, that which fits a man to perform justly, skil- 
fully, and magnanimously all the offices, both private and 
public of peace and war." 

English education, then, never felt the stimulating in- 
fluence of academies which, by their atten- 
tion to the real demands of life, did much to 
awaken the secondary schools of France and Germany 
from their scholastic lethargy. The young English gentle- 
man finished his education by making "the grand tour" 
and visiting the chief countries of Western Europe. At 
home, no doubt, schoolboys played games, but there was 
no positive care by the schools for their physical training. 
The writers on the subject of bodily education treat it 
more and more as essentially a matter of hygiene and 
medicine. Locke, for example, whose Thoughts concerning 
Education was published in 1692, has much to say on 
securing healthy conditions of life, but very little about 
exercise. He recommends " playthings . . . as tops, gigs, 
battledores and the like, which are to be used with 
labour" 1 for young ' children. As to youths, "fencing 
and riding the great horse are looked upon as so necessary 
parts of breeding that it would be thought a great omission 
to neglect them." 2 Locke would personally prefer wrest- 
ling to fencing, which he thinks " a good exercise for 
health, but dangerous to the life." " But," he concludes, 
" since fencing and riding the great horse are so generally 
looked upon as necessary qualifications in the breeding of 
a gentleman, it would be hard wholly to deny any one of that 

1 130. 2 198. 



52 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

rank these marks of distinction." 1 But of an adequate 
conception of physical training as an integral part of 
education and of its nature if it is to be successful there 
is little or no trace in Locke. And the writers of the early 
eighteenth century who advocate physical exercises do so 
mainly on the ground of their medicinal effect in remedying 
disorders. 

In the seventh decade of that most artificial and con- 
ventional century the French philosopher 
Helvetius. , . , J . . 

Helvetms wrote : " Corporeal education is 

neglected by almost all European nations : not that 
governments directly oppose improvements in this part of 
education ; but that exercises of this sort being no longer 
in vogue, are no longer encouraged. 

" There is 110 law that forbids the laying out of a 
suitable ground in a college, where the students of a 
proper age may exercise themselves in wrestling, running, 
leaping, swimming, throwing or lifting of weights, etc. If 
in this ground, constructed in imitation of the gymnasium 
of the Greeks, prizes were to be decreed for the conquerors, 
there is no doubt but they would rekindle in youth the 
natural disposition they have for such games. ... A child 
may consecrate every day seven or eight hours to his serious 
studies, and four or five to exercises more or less violent, 
and thus he will at once invigorate both body and mind." 2 

The English plan of educating the boys of the higher 

classes in boarding schools no doubt led to 

School Sports ^ nere being a greater zest for games among 

English boys than among their continental 

fellows. If the schoolmasters took no part in the physical 

training but the negative one of not interfering with the 

1 199. 

2 A Treatise on Man, his Intellectual Faculties, and his Education. 
Section X. , Chapter 4. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 53 

boys' leisure, yet that was in itself no small gain ; it was 
seed out of which our system of public school athletics has 
grown. In a " manuscript drawn up by some boy, in 1765 
or 1766, and entitled Nugae Etonenses" there is " a list of 
games in vogue" at Eton: "Cricket, Fives, Shirking 
Walls, Scrambling Walls, Bally Gaily, Battledores, Peg-top, 
Peg in the Ring, Goals, Hopscotch, Headimy, Conquering 
Lobs, Hoops, Marbles, Trap-ball, Steal Baggage, Puss in 
the Corner, Cut Gallows, Kites, Cloyster and Flyer Gigs, 
Tops, Humming-tops, Hunt the Hare, Hunt the Dark 
Lanthorn; Clmck, Sinks, Starecaps, Hustlecap, Football, 
Slides in School, Leaping poles, Slides down the sides of 
the stairs from Cloyster to College Kitchen." l Many of 
these are obviously games played by the younger boys, and 
as provision for a full physical training the whole collection 
is inferior to the sports of earlier centuries. 

8. The advocacy of physical training by Helvetius was 
quite in line with the idea of a return to 
Phvsieal nature in education and in life- so eloquently 

Education. voiced by Rousseau in the Emile. 2 False as 
is the fundamental conception of the purpose 
and value of life which underlies that book, 
yet in its denunciations of the artificialities of the eighteenth 
century, and in its appeals to men to live as men and to 
bring up their children to be men, it was abundantly 
justified. Its essential teaching on physical education is 
perhaps nowhere more clearly stated by Rousseau than in 
the passage : "If you wish to cultivate the intelligence of 
your pupil, cultivate the powers it should rule. Exercise 
his body continually ; make him strong and healthy that 
you may make him wise and reasonable ; let him work, let 
him act, let him run, let him shout, let him be always on 

1 Lyte, History of Eton College, 3rd Ed., p. 328. 

2 Published in 1762. 



54 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

the move. Let him be a man in vigour, and soon he will 
become one in reason." 1 

The Emile became immediately famous, and its influence 

on education for the past century and a half 
Basedow. J 

has been enormous. Even the great ladies 

of France began to nurse their own children. But it was 
in Germany that the return to more natural conditions 
was first attempted. In the Philanthropinum 2 at Dessau, 
Basedow, amid many eccentricities and not a little char- 
latanism, endeavoured to give a more national and practical 
education than did the schools of the day, and as one 
means to that end he introduced a definite set of physical 
exercises dancing, riding, turning, planing, carpentry, 
and walking all under the direction of the teachers. 
There were also races and wrestling in the open air. To 
Basedow belongs the honour of first, since the days of 
Greece, making physical training a definite part of the 
curriculum of the ordinary school, as distinct from such 
special schools as those of chivalry and the Courtly 
Academies. 

Salzmann, one of the teachers of the Philanthropinum, 

in 1784 founded the institute at Schnep- 
Gutsnmths. , ,, , ., . 

tenthal, where he followed the Dessau prac- 
tice in physical exercises. Next year he associated with 
himself Johann Gutsmuths and put the school gymnastics 
into his charge. Gutsmuths gave much thought to the 
matter, and may be said to have laid deep and sure the 
foundations of modern German school gymnastics. Under 
his charge, says von Eaumer in" his History of Pedagogy, 
" the children played, not only for the sake of relaxation 
from the labour of the school, but their bodily exercises 
were made a necessary part of their intellectual training 

1 Emile, Book II. 2 Established in 1774. 



HISTORY OP PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 55 

and an indispensable department of instruction in the 
school." 

After eight years' experience Grutsmuths published his 
Gymnastics for Youth, a book which attracted much at- 
tention and exercised a wide influence, translations being 
made into English, French, and Danish. 1 

In the Preface the key-note is struck : " Learning and 
refinement are to health and bodily perfection what luxuries 
are to necessaries. Is not then our education depraved 
when it aims at a luxury and neglects our greatest and 
most essential want. This thought is the foundation of my 
work : may it not only be laid to heart, but have a practical 
effect on education in general." 2 

He does not claim to have based his work on deep 
researches into physiology, though he grants that " a 
genuine theory of gymnastics " should be so based ; such a 
system would require deep physiological and medical know- 
ledge on the part of schoolmasters, which they certainly 
did not possess. His own work is " built solely on the 
genuine experience of eight years' practice." 3 But he 
thinks this is no drawback to its practical utility. " How 
far the physiological knowledge of the ancient Greeks 
extended, it is not for me to determine : but this at least 
is certain, that long practice had convinced them of the 
advantage and utility of gymnastics to youth, and to the 
nation at large, before they thought of applying medical 
theory to the subject." * 

The first part of Grutsmuths' book is taken up with 
arguments to convince his age of the practical importance 
of the subject. He gives a gloomy picture of eighteenth 
century practice. The training of the well-to-do led to 

1 The English translation is anonymous, and the translator has 
erroneously ascribed the work to Salzmann. 

2 Eng. Trans., p. viii, 3 Ibid. 4 Ibid., pp. ix-x, 



56 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

effeminacy of character and weakness of health. The 
young boy " is muffled up from head to foot ; he reposes on 
a heating feather bed ; his diet consists of the complicated 
dishes in which adults indulge themselves." : On the 
contrary "the time is now arrived when his body, be it 
ever so delicate, ought to be exercised the greater part of 
the day in the open air, in heat and cold, in wind and rain, 
to fortify it against the influence of the weather; to 
strengthen his limbs by strenuous exertions in walking, 
running, jumping, throwing, etc., and foster in his mind 
the germs of courage, perseverance, activity, and reflection 
on the objects of nature." 2 

At school " everything is calculated for the formation of 
the mind, as if we were altogether without bodies." 3 This 
"is an unpardonable fault : it is a bad sign that no one 
can discover the idea of bodily improvement in the com- 
pound idea expressed by the word school." 4 It is true the 
richer boys learn to dance and to fence. But the former 
" contributes little or nothing, as a bodily exercise, to the 
attainment of a nobler end; to the attainment of that 
which we would call in a single word, manhood." 5 And 
as to fencing, it "is an exercise of admirable utility in 
itself : it strengthens the body and infuses courage, but it 
is applicable only in later years and has a connexion too 
dangerous with what is called the point of honour." 6 The 
poor are still worse cared for. " In the present situation 
of things, teaching, not education, being the office of school- 
masters, the class of working people can do nothing for the 
bodily formation of their children." 7 

But it is not simply neglect of positive bodily training 
which is bringing about deplorable results, everywhere only 

1 Ibid., p. 7. - Ibid., pp. 7-8. 3 Ibid., p. 9. 

* Ibid., p. 10. 5 Ibid., p. 13. 6 Ibid. 7 Ibid., p. 15. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 57 

too apparent. " This want of bodily exercise, it is true, I 
consider as a prime cause of debilitation, but our luxurious 
tables, and the clothing of our youth, are assuredly power- 
ful auxiliaries." 1 

These positions G-utsinuths develops at considerable 
length. He grants that " since the appearance of the 
modern mode of education, as it has been called, but 
which the learned know may be found in Plato and other 
Greeks ; since the promulgation of the principles of Locke, 
Rousseau, Basedow, and Salzmann ; the night of monastic 
education, as everyone knows, has gradually dispersed." 2 
Yet the advance has been one-sided. " The improvements 
of our great public schools deserve much praise : but they 
are confined to the methods of teaching, new sciences, more 
regard to health in the construction of the appropriate 
edifices, and greater economy of expense." 3 Of smaller 
schools and private education similar remarks may be made. 
Indeed, only a " short view is sufficient to discover the few 
steps that have been made towards the physical improve- 
ment of education in private families and public institu- 
tions : almost all the improvements that have been suggested 
lie dormant, properly speaking, in books ; a few of them 
only have been carried into practice in private families, so 
that they are yet by no means to be considered as forming 
a part of general education." 4 

Nor can physical development be safely left to "the 
natural propensity of children to play about in the open 
air." 5 Though the children of the poor have much free- 
dom, yet at an early age " many are obliged to perform 
labours above their strength. On the other hand, the sons 

1 Ibid., p. 18. 2 Ibid., pp. 88-89. 

3 Ibid. , p. 92. The reference is, of course, to German schools. 

4 Ibid., p. 94. 5 Ibid., p. 95. 



58 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

of the superior classes are denied these means of improving 
their health, and in consequence remain more feeble." 1 

This all leads up to a positive advocacy of gymnastics. 
" The consequences of our education and mode of life . . . 
may be expressed by a single word, softness. . . . If we 
harden the body more, it will acquire more stability and 
firmness of nerve ; if we exercise it, it will become strong 
and active : in this state it will invigorate the mind, it will 
render it manly, energetic, indefatigable, firm, and courage- 
ous ; serenity will be diffused over it ; it will be active as 
nature ; it will never experience the poison of ennui. All 
this is to be accomplished by educating the body more 
hardly, and in particular by exercising it." 2 

Gutsmuths then considers and answers possible objec- 
tions against his proposal : that there are no places suitable 
for the purpose ; that there are no teachers ; that time 
cannot be found ; that such exercises will bring ridicule on 
the schools ; that they are dangerous ; that they will culti- 
vate dislike of sedentary occupations ; that they will 
develop rudeness of mind and self-assertion. The whole 
discussion throws much light on the general attitude of 
the later eighteenth century towards physical training. 

The first part of the book concludes with a clear setting 
forth of the objects a good school gymnastic should aim at 
securing. The conclusions are thus summed up. " To 
facilitate the contemplation of them, I shall just repeat 
the desirable parallel between the qualities of the body and 
mind. 

Health of body . . . Serenity of mind. 

Hardiness ... Manliness of sentiment. 

Strength and address ... Presence of mind and 

courage. 

1 Ibid., p. 97, 8 Ibid,, pp. 101-102, 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 59 

Activity of body . . . Activity of mind. 

Excellence of form . . . Mental beauty. 

Acuteness of the senses . . . Strength of understanding. 

" Now let me ask : are not these objects suited to our 
political institutions, to our manners, and to our state of 
civilisation? and are they not worthy the most ardent 
endeavours of a cultivated people ? "* 

In the second part of the work G-utsmuths describes in 
detail the exercises he recommends. They should be, as 
far as is practicable, in the open air. They should be en- 
joyable : " Were I to give a definition of these exercises, it 
would be : gymnastics are labour in the garb of youthful 
mirth." 2 As they are "to act as preservatives against effe- 
minate sensuality and to steel both the physical and moral 
man : and therefore they must be connected with labour ; 
require patience and perseverance ; admit not of enervating 
rest ; inure the pupil to more or less pain, that he may 
learn to contemn it ; and expose him to the weather and 
the elements, to harden the integuments, which are de- 
signed to protect the whole body." 3 

The exercises discussed are leaping, running, throwing, 
wrestling, climbing, balancing the body, lifting, carrying, 
drawing objects with a cord, skipping, dancing, walking, 
military exercises, swimming, reading aloud, and exercise 
of the senses. These are then divided into four classes 
according as they operate generally, on the upper part of 
the body, on the lower part of the body, or on special parts 
of the body. 

Then follow some general rules to be observed, the chief 
of which are, " Gymnastic exercises should never be per- 
formed after a meal, till the food is digested." 4 " Never 
let bodily exertion, or your attempts to harden the frame, 

1 Ibid., p. 184. Ibid., p. 187. 3 Ibid., p. 188. 4 Ibid., p. 422. 



60 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

be carried to excess." : " Distinguish the feeble from the 
athletic, and measure them not by the same standard." 2 
" Observe what limbs of each young gymnic are the feeblest, 
and let these be particularly exercised." 3 

There is obviously much of the Greek spirit in Gutsmuths, 
and a good deal that reminds us of Mulcaster. 

Pestalozzi also advocated physical training, but he had a 

very inadequate conception of its nature. In 
Pestalozzi. ,. J . . ,. , 

his opinion " the essence 01 elementary gym- 
nastics consists in nothing else than a series of exercises 
for the joints." His general advocacy, however, helped to 
advance the cause. 

Another pioneer was Fellenberg, whose agricultural 

school at Hofwyl exerted a great influence 

both in Europe and America. Fellenberg 
sums up his position in the words : " Voluntary exercise is 
to be encouraged by providing suitable games, by affording 
opportunities for gardening, by excursions, and by bathing. 
Regular gymnastic exercises should be insisted on as a 
means of developing the body. A healthy action of the 
bodily frame has an important influence on both mind and 
morals." 4 

9. Physical training was, then, in the air in Germany at 

the dawn of the nineteenth century. It yet 
Education in wante( ^ a practical impulse. This was given 
the Nineteenth by Frederick Jahn, a schoolmaster of Berlin, 
Century. w h o h as ]3 een called the " Father of Modern 

Germany Gymnastics." It was in the spring of 1810, 

he tells us, writing in 1816, that " a few of 
my pupils began to go out with me into the woods and 

1 Ibid., p. 424. 2 Ibid. 3 Ibid., p. 425. 

4 Quoted by Mr. Boykin in a paper on "Physical Training," 
printed in the Report, of the U.S.A. Commissioner of Education, 
1891-1892, Vol. L, p. 486. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 61 

fields on the holiday afternoons of Wednesday and Satur- 
day and the habit became confirmed. Their number 
increased, and we had various youthful sports and exer- 
cises. ... At the present time many exercises are practised 
in company, in open air, and before the eyes of all, under 
the name of turning. But then the names turning system, 
turning, turner, turning ground, and the like, came up all 
at once and gave occasion for much excitement, scandal, 
and authorship. ... In the summer of 1812, both the turn- 
ing ground and system of exercises were enlarged. They 
became more varied from turning day to turning day, and 
were mutually developed by the pupils in their friendly 
contests of youthful emulation. It is impossible to say in 
detail who first discovered, tried, investigated, proved, and 
completed one or another exercise." 1 

The turning movement spread, but gradually lost its 
immediate connexion with the schools, though its members 
were young men who usually had not long ceased to be 
scholars. From the first a strongly patriotic impulse had 
been given to it by Jahn. This seems to have developed 
into excessive and premature demands for political reform. 
Certainly the turner societies were looked upon with dis- 
favour by the reactionary governments, until at length all 
turning establishments were ordered to be closed and Jahn 
himself imprisoned. Though again allowed, yet in 1832 
and 1848 the societies were again repressed. 

Since 1860 the associations have ceased to concern them- 
selves with politics and have flourished undisturbed, 
playing a part in German life somewhat analogous to 
that played in England by cricket, football, and other 
athletic clubs. 

1 In Die deutsche Turnkunst : translation in Barnard's Journal 
of Education, Vol. VIII., p. 196. Cited by Boykin, op. cit., pp. 
486-487. 



62 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

Though proposals had been made as early as 1804 
for the introduction of physical training into the schools 
of Prussia, yet it was only in 1837 that a permissive order 
was issued allowing gymnastics to be taught in the 
schools. Five years later " the King of Prussia on the 
combined recommendation of the ministers of education, 
of war, and of the interior, approved a cabinet order that 
' bodily exercises should be acknowledged formally as a ne- 
cessary and indispensable integral part of male education, 
and should be adopted as an agency in the education of 
the people.' The same order authorised the establishment 
of gymnastic institutes in connection with the 'gymnasien,' 
the higher middle schools, the training schools for teachers 1 
and the division and brigade schools in the army." 2 

Into the elementary schools gymnastics were not intro- 
duced till 1860. No general provision is yet made for girls, 
though in some towns they are required to follow the 
gymnastic course. 

In Saxony gymnastics were introduced into the higher 
schools and training schools for teachers in 1837, and were 
made compulsory in 1876. In 1863 the introduction of 
gymnastics into the lower schools was recommended, but 
without much effect for some years. In 1878 it was 
made compulsory. 

In Hesse the organisation of school gymnastics was due 
to Spiess, who from 1848 till his death ten years later held 
high office in the department of education of that duchy. 
For fifteen years previously he had been teacher of 
gymnastics at Burgdorf, in Switzerland. There he had 
introduced gymnastics for girls such as exercises with 
dumb-bells, running, jumping, and swinging, and also a 

1 I.e. the highest class of secondary schools. 
~ Boy kin, op. cit., p. 490. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 63 

system of simultaneous class gymnastics, performed with- 
out apparatus at the word of command. Both these 
features marked his administration in Hesse, and to carry 
it out more perfectly he himself in 1849 and 1850 con- 
ducted training courses for teachers. 

Similar steps were taken by other German states, and 
now gymnastics is an integral part of the course in all 
schools. 

In Prussia three hours a week in the secondary schools 
and two hours a week in the primary are given to gym- 
nastics ; each class having its own special time. Each 
school has usually its own exercise hall, and in some of the 
larger cities playgrounds are also provided. The exercises 
are graduated and include a great variety of movements 
both with and without apparatus. The girls have arm 
exercises with wands and dumbbells, skipping, marching, 
dancing, balancing, jumping, swinging, climbing, and 
games of ball, and even go through some of the easier 
exercises on the parallel and horizontal bars. 

Of late years, too, there has been shown in Germany an 
increasing desire to introduce out- door games and sports 
into the training of the young. 

To Denmark really belongs the honour of setting the 

example to other European nations in the 
Denmark. , ; r , , . . 

matter ot regular physical training, as she 

introduced gymnastics into her schools as early as 1828. 
In Sweden the impulse towards gymnastics was given by 

Lingr who was born as early as 1776. He 
Sweden. , , , . jm / 

early devoted his attention to physical train- 
ing and urged his views so successfully that in 1814 the 
Government established a Royal Central Institute of 
Gymnastics and appointed Ling its director. Ling wrote 
various practical works setting forth his system, but school 
gymnastics do not appear to have become a regular part of 



64 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

the work of Swedish schools till some years after his death 
in 1839. 

The characteristic feature of Swedish gymnastics is 
their semi-military character. Each movement is executed 
at the word of command by the whole body of students. 
The exercises are based on a physiological analysis of 
muscles, and in every drill it is held essential that a 
sequence should be kept and that the drill itself should 
fall into its proper place in the whole series of drills. 
Thus gradation can be secured, and change and variety are 
not eliminated. 

The system has been adversely criticised by German 
writers, especially on the ground that it has no moral aim 
and no tendency to form character. It has, however, 
spread a good deal both in Europe and in America, where 
the preponderance of women teachers debars the school 
from attempting any full physical training of boys. 

In France gymnastics has been generally introduced 
into the schools within the last few years. 
So recently as 1883 Dr. Mahaffy could com- 
pare " on the one hand, the neat and well-regulated French 
boys of a boarding school, walking two and two with 
gloves on and toes turned out, along a road, followed by a 
master ; on the other, the playgrounds of any good Eng- 
lish school during recreation time." l There has been 
much improvement since then ; now the French code 
requires attention to be given to games and gymnas- 
tics, and the schools are usually furnished with the 
necessary appliances. The idea of the need of continual 
supervision and regulation is, however, still practically 
universal, and the French youth's attitude towards games 
is mainly one of contempt, or, at the best, of patient 
tolerance. Moreover, the demands 011 time and energy 
1 Old Greek Education, p. 36. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 65 

made in the secondary schools both in France and in 
Germany are much heavier than is common in England. 
As a result games which demand much time are 
crowded out, and formal gymnastics remain practically 
supreme in physical training. 

In our own country the advance has been on quite 
England different lines. As has been seen in the 

course of our brief survey, boys at the old 
public boarding schools have always played games. Doubt- 
less they were in the past left too much to themselves, and 
the younger and weaker suffered more or less from the 
bullying of those older and stronger than themselves. As 
late as the early years of the nineteenth century a head- 
master " declared that it was his duty to teach Greek but 
not morality "j 1 and the record of Thring's life as a scholar 
at Eton between 1832 and 1842 shows how much the boys 
were left to themselves and how little care was taken for 
their physical comfort. 2 

The more careful organisation and supervision of the 
prefect system which Arnold began at Rugby about the 
time that Thring was a boy at Eton did much to put 
the government of boys by boys on a more satisfactory 
footing, and to a large extent to secure the advantages 
of self-reliance and power of initiative without the draw- 
backs of cruelty and injustice. 

As the century advanced, more and more cognisance was 
taken by the schools of the sports which occupied so much 
of the time and attention of the boys. Of Rugby in 1865 
Staunton reports that "contiguous to the school is the 
' school-close ' of more than thirteen acres of grass on a 
light soil. It is open on three sides, and contains a 
gymnastic ground, good racquet courts, and on one side of 

1 Russell: Life of Dr. Pusey, p. 11. 

2 See Parker : Life and Letters of Edward Thring, Chapter II. 

PHY. ED. 5 



66 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

it a cold bath of spring water which for many years has 
been kept for the use of the boys. 

" The management of this close, and the regulation of the 
sports, are commonly committed to an Assembly called the 
' Big- Side Levee,' consisting of all the boys iii the Upper 
School, led by the Sixth. The games most popular at 
Rugby are football, cricket, and racquets. Football is 
played there under different rules from those of other 
public schools, and with extraordinary vehemence and 
spirit." 1 

Similar remarks apply to the other great boarding 
schools. The great day schools were not so fortunate. 
At Merchant Taylors "the only playground is a paved 
space, called the Cloister, in the rear of the school, quite 
inadequate to the recreation of so many boys." But until 
it could be enlarged " the Company pay twenty guineas a 
year for the hire of a suitable ground for cricket." 2 

At Charterhouse, after recounting the usual sports, 
Staunton adds : " No athletic exercises are taught as a 
regular part of the education ; but a Drilling and Fencing 
Master attend, and there was, we believe, a rifle-corps in 
the school, numbering 60 boys." 3 

The example of Edward Thring at Uppingham did much 
to improve the physical surroundings of the public school 
boy. On nothing did that great headmaster insist with more 
emphasis than on the influence of buildings on the life of 
the boys. At Uppingham in 1859 was opened the first 
public school gymnasium, and there too the experiment was 
begun of establishing carpentry and metal workshops, and 
school gardens. 

At present the games of the great Public Schools are 
elaborately organised. Several of the masters are always 

1 The Great Schools of England, p. 388. 2 Ibid., p. 239. 

3 Ibid., p. 287. 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 67 

adepts in them, and there are in addition professional 
'coaches.' In cricket one of the masters is usually in 
joint authority with the captain of the eleven, but the 
management of the other sports is left in the boys' hands, 
though the interest and participation of the masters 
secure that they are in touch with all that is done. Games 
are generally compulsory, unless forbidden by the school 
doctor. Inter-school matches were made possible by the 
building of railways, and have done much to raise the level 
of play, of sportsmanship, and of school patriotism. 

The charge most frequently brought against Public 
School Athletics is that they play too large a part in the 
boys' life, but not infrequently that charge is made by 
those who, following the evil tradition of the seventeenth 
and eighteenth centuries, identify education with schooling 
and limit schooling to intellectual exercises. 

The smaller secondary schools have usually followed the 
lead of the great public schools, with such modifications 
as are demanded by differences of circumstances. With 
younger boys it is obvious that the management of sports 
must be more in the hands of the masters, who give more 
actual instruction in the games. This is, of course, the 
case with the many excellent boarding schools which prepare 
boys to enter the great public schools at about thirteen 
years of age. 

The day schools have always had more difficulties to 
overcome than the boarding schools owing to the facts that 
the home life of the boys makes considerable demands on 
their time and that it has often been difficult to secure 
sufficient and suitable ground. But as a rule these difficul- 
ties have been more or less perfectly overcome, and the 
introduction of the 'house' system into day schools, 
whereby the pupils are organised into small ' houses ' or 
groups, each under the charge of a master, has done much, 



68 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

by inter-house matches, to develop the public school tone 
among the boys. Most secondary schools, too, have gym- 
nasia and gymnastic instructors. 

In the last half-century the physical education of girls 
has been made the object of more thought and care than it 
had received for two thousand years. To no one do the 
girls of England owe a deeper debt for eloquent and success- 
ful advocacy of their right to receive a full physical training 
than to Mr. Herbert Spencer. G-irls' secondary schools 
now often organise their games as carefully as do those 
for boys. 

When we turn to the primary schools the picture is 
not so bright. The nineteenth century inherited from the 
eighteenth a terrible legacy of ignorance among the poor. 
The industrial revolution which began in the last decades 
of the eighteenth century accentuated this in England. 
Children of both sexes and of the most tender years were 
' apprenticed ' to the mill-owners of Lancashire and York- 
shire, and spent a life at which the imagination shudders, 
and which called for the repeated intervention of the State. 
As Mr. de Montmorency says, speaking of the opposition 
to the Factory Act of 1802 : " One can only wonder at the 
rare calibre of a manufacturer who could style as ' injurious,' 
' harsh,' ' oppressive,' or ' impracticable ' a measure that 
required, in mills where three or more apprentices were 
employed, the mill rooms to be ventilated ; that ordered the 
rooms to be whitewashed twice a year ; that an apprentice 
should have one suit of clothes a year ; that an apprentice 
should not work more than twelve hours a day exclusive of 
meal times ; that 110 work by apprentices should be done 
between nine at night and six in the morning ; that male 
and female apprentices should sleep in separate rooms, and 
that not more than two apprentices should sleep in any case 
in the same Jbed ; that the master should call in medical 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 69 

attendance for his resident apprentices in case of infectious 
disease ; that the mills should be inspected by visitors 
appointed by the justices; that the children should be 
taught the elements of knowledge and the principles of 
Christianity." 1 

After seventy years of effort England succeeded, by the 
Education Act of 1870, in securing to every child the 
opportunity to be taught. Six years later attendance at 
school was made compulsory, and in 1891 it was enacted 
that primary instruction should be free to all. Enormous 
sums were spent both by voluntary agencies and by the 
local authorities in providing the requisite buildings, and 
in keeping them abreast, as far as possible, of the teachings 
of modern hygiene. But the conception of education which 
guided these efforts was essentially the scholastic tradition, 
that education and instruction are synonymous. So schools 
were provided but no playing fields, and very often most 
inadequate playgrounds ; laboratories were built and fur- 
nished at great cost, but few gymnasia and still fewer baths. 

Nor is the truth yet generally recognised that physical 
training is as essential as mental cultivation. Healthy con- 
ditions of school buildings are rightly insisted upon, and 
in 1907 it was made obligatory on the local authorities to 
appoint medical officers to examine the physical condition 
of the school children. All this is good, for it is well 
to know our weaknesses. But, after all, these are only 
auxiliary and even preparatory steps, and if the further and 
more important step of training the children be not taken, 
much labour and money will have been expended with little 
result. 

Nor can such training be given through instruction in 
hygiene and physiology. The fashionable cry for such 

1 State Intervention in English Education, p. 213. 



70 HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

instruction is only another outcome of the scholastic 
fallacy that instruction is the one thing needful in life, 
and of the yet more common confusion between knowing 
a thing and knowing about it. No knowledge about a 
practical act is of effect without the direct knowledge of it 
which comes from doing it. It is useless for me to be 
able to describe in theory the mode in which forces should 
be applied to divert a moving cricket ball into any one 
desired direction, if when I am at the wicket I inevitably 
get out first ball. And it is equally useless for a boy to 
have theoretical knowledge of the physiological effects of 
cleanliness, or of exercise, or of fresh air, if no occasion 
be given him to wash and bathe, to run and jump, and to 
breathe the untainted air of heaven. Very simple and 
very practical are the rules of the hygienic life ; and these 
the child must apprehend by his intellect. But he must 
make them his own by practice. In that way, and in that 
way only, will he ever really and truly know what they 
mean. Any instruction in physiology or hygiene which 
goes beyond this may have an intellectual value, but has 
no more practical bearing on conduct than has the study 
of any other branch of science, say chemistry or geology. 

It follows that the schools cannot truly teach hygiene 
until they can send their pupils to practise hygiene. It is 
useless to talk to children who are never washed of the 
pleasures and advantages of cleanliness. Schools attended 
by such children cannot teach cleanliness unless they are 
supplied with baths, and use them regularly. It is in the 
bath, not in the class-room, that the true lesson on cleanli- 
ness is taught. 

Equally futile is it to talk to children of the advantages 
of exercise when their only places for play are crowded 
streets and a minute school playground. Doubtless the 
provision of adequate playing grounds will be expensive ; but 



HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 71 

so have the school buildings been, and may it not be that 
the former are at least equally important with the latter ? 
Moreover, if such playing grounds were adequately used 
some children would always be in them, and so the amount 
of school accommodation required would be lessened. Of 
course there should be covered sheds for use in very wet 
weather, and dressing rooms should also be provided. For 
the children should be required to change into simple 
flannel suits for their exercises, and, when the parents 
cannot supply these, there seems no reason why they 
should not be provided as part of the school apparatus as 
readily as are books and other material used inside the 
school. 

To one who really appreciates the full doctrine of 
education, and of physical training as an essential part of 
it, which it has been the object of this chapter to enforce, 
the most crying need in English and indeed in European 
and American education of to-day must appear to be 
adequate provision for physical training, and the full 
recognition of it as part of the teacher's work. 



CHAPTER II. 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN RELATION TO MIND 
AND BODY. 

1. THE problem of physical education is both a wide 

and a complex one, for it is an aspect of the 

relation to wider problem of education in general, of 

Intellectual which physical, intellectual, and moral train- 

Educatkra * n ^ are co ^ a ^ era l an< ^ overlapping branches. 
Clearly to grasp the full extent of its mean- 
ing we need to ask ourselves what the work of the whole 
human being is in life and then to understand to what 
extent and in what way the body plays a part in that 
work. From such general considerations only can the 
teacher attain a real and comprehensive insight into the 
significance of physical training. 

" The purpose of Education should be to lead the child 
into the fullest, truest, noblest, and most fruitful relations 
of which he is capable with the world in which he lives." l 
The child life should lead progressively onward to an 
adult life full of generous and varied activities. Life, 
however, is always life in a particular environment of 
people and things. It is essentially, for the majority of 
men and women, a practical doing of things, the attaining 
of practical ends in a practical way. Practical ends, 

1 Welton, Principles of Teaching, p. 9. 

72 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 73 

however, are not necessarily utilitarian ends. Profes- 
sion, or business, or craft is one of the concerns of life, 
but complete life is not confined to so narrow a sphere. 
Man's nature includes other elements than the desire to 
provide for himself and his family. Intellectual, social, 
and aesthetic impulses cry out for development, and unless 
stifled by the demands of utilitarian life will take up a 
large part of leisure time. Education, to attain its com- 
plete and highest end, must develop all sides of human 
nature, must make the most and the best of all that is 
in man. It should lead the child through boyhood and 
youth not only to be a just, honest, and well-balanced 
citizen, a good father, an intelligent skilled worker, but 
should also cultivate his tastes and train his intelligence 
and skill so that he can use his leisure time in ways 
profitable to his mind and body. Into all aspects of life 
utilitarian, social, or aesthetic practical activities enter. 
Health, strength, practical skill, practical judgment, and 
those practical elements of character that are demanded 
in personal dealings with people and things are as much 
required in the earnest and thorough pursuit of intel- 
lectual, social, and aesthetic ends as in those that are 
distinctly utilitarian. Education, then, has a thoroughly 
practical end in view. It aims at forming a man fully 
capable and efficient in performing all the practical duties 
implied in the term manhood. 

It must not be thought that physical education is some- 
thing apart from this. This high, broad, and complex aim 
is as much the end of physical as of intellectual and 
moral education; There are not three aims, but one aim. 
The three aspects of education are but factors in one 
process. The physical does not purpose a merely physical 
end, the development of the body. Its end is more 
human. It seeks to prepare for that aspect of life's work 



74 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

in which practical activities take a prominent share. It 
thus embraces intellectual and moral elements, for though 
the physical enters largely into practical activities yet judg- 
ment and character are equally essential. So it is with 
the intellectual aspect of education. The physical and the 
moral enter into it. Strenuousness, patience, honesty, and 
self-control are learnt even in arithmetic and grammar 
lessons, and we frequently learn better by doing than by 
the more theoretic contemplation of things. 

Life cannot be divided into watertight compartments, 
one labelled physical, another intellectual, a third moral ; 
and the preparation for life will fail just in so far as 
artificial boundaries are erected to make the occupations 
and pursuits of school life solely intellectual, or moral, or 
physical in their character. School life will find its deepest 
roots in the pupil, it will have its greatest effect in mould- 
ing his habits and desires, when it approximates to the 
conditions of real life of the child progressing through boy- 
hood and youth to manhood. Artificiality and formality are 
monotonous and deadening. Pursuits that do not appeal to 
the human nature that is in children as much as in men 
become drudgery, to be cast on one side when authority 
no longer compels. Only those occupations that appeal to 
human feelings, desires, and impulses will have a perma- 
nent place in life, and will to any great extent influence 
intelligence and character. 

Physical education, then, if it is to be anything more 
than a mere formal and artificial adjunct to school life 
must be founded on the natural desires and instincts of 
childhood. The pursuits and occupations included under 
physical education, whilst they are physical in their 
character and promote health, strength, and skill, must 
have intellectual, social, and aesthetic factors, and hence 
train judgment and character. They will, in short, be the 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 75 

practical aspects of intellectual, social, and aesthetic school 
life. 

2. There is, thus, brought forcibly home to us the inter- 
relation of the physical with the other aspects 
The Relation of education. This problem is at bottom 
to Bodily tln&t of the relation of mind to body and 

Activities. the work of each in effective life. It is im- 
portant, therefore, at the outset clearly to 
grasp the connexion between mental process and physical 
process and to understand the dependence of each in all 
life activity. 

Life is a continual struggle with one's physical and social 
environment to bring oneself into proper relations to it, to 
know it, and to turn it to use. In this work mind and body 
each plays its own part. 

The work of mind is rationally to control our actions in 
the world around us. To do this we must 
know the world, construct by our intelligence 
the world in idea, as truly and as fully as 
the impressions with which our senses provide us will 
allow. Knowledge so gained, however, is only a means to 
life. The real, true life consists in the ceaseless striving 
after ends, the overcoming of difficulties, the continual 
satisfying of the demands of our nature. Bodily, intel- 
lectual, social, aesthetic, and religious cravings all demand 
realisation, and all have reference to something outside 
ourselves. All involve the continual adaptation of 
people and things around us. The function of intel- 
ligence is to transform these impulsive cravings into 
rational purposes, to know in the varying and conflicting 
circumstances of life as they crowd upon us wherein lies 
the welfare of the whole organism, a welfare permanent, 
lasting, and continuous throughout life. When intelligence 
forms such a conception of life's good, then in the midst 



76 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

of the strife of inclinations and desires it becomes possible 
to choose the higher and to .prefer the permanent and 
lasting good to the impulse of the moment. 

Impulse is thus by intelligence subjected to purpose, 
which the mind sets before itself as its highest, best, and 
most permanent welfare. Impulses and desires, however, 
continually arise in conflict with the ideal good, and the mind 
must hold to the better and the more rational and pursue 
it with strenuousness and persistency. Conflict with the 
self, with the physical world, and with human society is 
inevitable, and conquest demands qualities of character 
that may be summed up in the word ' power ' power to 
subdue and to endure. Courage, fortitude, hardihood, and 
endurance are required to conquer in the physical, the 
social, and the personal struggles of life. But to begin 
the strife needs a consciousness of one's power and a fore- 
sight of success, and such confidence and faith in one's 
ability to bear and to subdue is only born of success. It is 
only in the successful strife with the physical world and 
with material objects, in the human contests with one's 
fellows and with oneself, when one's strength, skill, in- 
telligence, and spirit are matched against physical and 
human forces, that there develops that manly and manful 
outlook on the world, that feeling of self-confidence, self- 
reliance, and self-respect that indicates one's power to 
conquer the world, and undaunted by it to pursue one's 
purposes faithfully to the end. 

Much of the work of the world, however, is done by 
man in co-operation with his fellows, all working towards 
a common end, and each seeking his own good through 
the good of the whole community. For this co-operative 
work to be successful, the mind must possess knowledge of 
human nature, extend sympathy to others, obtain an insight 
into their views, and show tolerance. Power to co-operate, to 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 77 

enter willingly into common ends, to deny one's own purely 
individual good and give obedience to law and constituted 
authority is necessary to harmonious social life. 

In this rational control of conduct and in this power to 
conceive and to strive for the individual and the common 
good lies the marked distinction between man and the 
lower animals. The latter certainly seek their own welfare 
as far as they know it, but they seek it blindly. They are 
guided by instinctive impulse, but they cannot conceive of 
life stretching ahead, and think of and work for the welfare 
of generations yet unborn. They live from moment to 
moment. Impulse is there, but no purpose, no moral will, 
because there is no thought of a permanent and continuous 
good to which impulse and inclination must be subjected. 
The peculiar and distinctively human function of the human 
mind is conscious self -direction, the ability to conceive an 
ideal good, the power to choose and hold to the better, and 
freely and willingly to bear physical and mental hardships 
in the struggle to attain it. 

The position of mind in the human organism, then, is 
that by intelligence and character it constitutes itself the 
controlling, governing, and directing member. Its duty 
is to know wherein lies the true welfare of the whole being, 
to be in touch with the physical and social environment, 
and to direct the behaviour of the whole organism in that 
environment so as to secure the welfare of the whole. The 
question then which opens up before us is : How is mind 
brought into relation with the external world so as to 
know it and use it for the attainment of human purpose ? 

The body is the instrument by which the mind is 
brought into relation with external things. 

the n Body. f Onlv though the medium of the body can 

mind execute its function of knowing the 

world and adapting that world to the welfare" of the whole 



78 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

being. It is, then, as an instrument of mind that educa- 
tion must seek to train the body so as to make it an 
instrument strong and efficient for its service. 

To think of the body as something apart from the mind, 
to train the bodily activities separately from their rela- 
tion to mental activities, is to take a narrow and false view 
of education. In this we are at one with the ancient 
Greeks, who held that the object of gymnastics was " rather 
to stimulate the spirited aspect of man's nature than to 
gain strength." A true and comprehensive conception of 
physical training is only possible to one who regards 
mental and bodily activities as being in inseparable rela- 
tion with each other. The mind is that element of the 
organism which conceives the welfare of the whole organ- 
ism and intelligently adapts and controls the environment 
to that welfare ; the body is the instrument through which 
the mind works. 

The mind is not in direct relation with every part of the 
body. Popular opinion connects it with the 
The Cerebrum brain, and this in the main is true. To speak 
Mind. rgan correctly, however, the seat of consciousness 
is only a part of the brain, viz. the two 
large lobes of the fore-brain, the cerebrum or cerebral 
hemispheres, that overlap the smaller middle and hinder 
segments. Destroy the cerebrum and all consciousness 
ceases, and self-direction of bodily activity by intelligence 
and will is no longer possible. In the cerebral hemispheres 
is that connexion between mental and bodily process by 
which almost all parts of the body are brought under the 
control of the wiU, and by which the things external to the 
body are made to serve human purposes. 

The connexion between bodily and mental process is a 
most mysterious one, and has occupied the thoughts of 
man ever since he began to try to understand his own 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 79 

nature. For all practical purposes, however, the cerebrum 
may be regarded as the organ of mind, and mental activity 
as having a correlative cerebral activity. The healthy life, 
growth, and energetic working of the mind involve the 
healthy life and growth and the active vigorous function- 
ing of the nervous tissue of the cerebral hemispheres. If 
the cerebrum be badly nourished, whether from defective 
circulation, poor blood, or weak digestion, mental activity 
becomes correspondingly feeble. Press for a few seconds the 
carotid arteries in the neck that supply the cerebrum with 
its life fluid and consciousness ceases. If the blood supply 
to the cerebrum be poor in oxygen, or impure in character, 
the effect is seen in headaches, languor, confused, thought, 
irritation, and weakening of self-control and self-con- 
fidence. 

The cerebrum, then, is the organ of mind ; the supreme 
bodily centre through which the mind con- 
trols the rest of the body and the external 
world. The function of the mind being to know its environ- 
ment and to adapt it to its own ends, the relations of the 
mind to the world must be of two kinds. On the one hand 
the cerebrum must be in connexion with the sense organs. 
To effect this, from every sense organ there pass to the 
cerebrum numerous nerve fibres called ' sensory.' The sense 
organs themselves are special structures peculiarly adapted 
to the reception of physical impressions. The eyes are 
sensitive to waves of light, the ears to vibrations of the air, 
the skin to molecular motion of heat and to contact, the 
palate and nose to the chemical activity of bodies dissolved 
in the mucus covering the membrane of the nasal passages 
and the palate. Each sense organ possesses a structure 
which specially fits it to receive one particular form of 
external force and to transmit as a consequence a nervous 
stimulus to the cerebrum. The nervous stimulus reaching 



80 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

the cerebrum, consciousness is affected in the form of 
sensations of light, sound, touch, temperature, smell, taste, 
pressure, and movement. Such sensations, however, do 
not constitute knowledge of reality. They are but the way 
the world is presented to our consciousness. To ha"ve a 
knowledge of the world intelligence must so work on this 
presented material and bring it into relation with past 
experience, that it is recognised, classified and named, and 
judgments are passed upon it. Sensations are only the raw 
material from which knowledge is constructed by the 
activity of intelligence. During every moment of life 
multitudes of such sense impressions are being received. 
Many, however, pass unheeded. A few, from their own 
intensity, or from the amount of feeling they evoke, or 
because the intelligence seizes on them as valuable and so 
drags them into fuller light, are recognised and interpreted 
in the light of past experience and of present needs. 

Some sense organs such as the eyes, ears, and nose are 
so constructed as to receive impressions from distant 
objects. Others, as the sense organs of taste and touch, 
require to be in actual contact with objects before they 
are affected by them. Still others record the state of rest 
or movement of the body itself and are not directly con- 
cerned with external objects, but only with the attitude of 
the body, in rest or motion, towards such objects. Thus, 
the muscles, tendons, and joints of the body are each 
supplied with sensory nerves, by which impressions of 
movement and of pressure are conveyed to the cerebrum. 
Intelligence can thus become aware, apart from the senses 
of sight and touch, of the position of the limbs, of the 
movements of any part of the body, and of the amount of 
resistance that is being overcome. 

All these different sense organs united in combined action 
on any object give the mind a great range and variety of 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 81 

impressions of that object, and they may lead it to initiate 
conduct that can deal effectively with it whether it be 
near or distant. With the hands and eyes the surface 
and shape of an object can be explored, and sometimes 
its structure can be examined by pulling it to pieces and 
putting it together again. By movements of the eye- 
balls and head the extent of large objects can be grasped 
when the hands fail. Walking round a large object such 
as a building adds experience of leg movements to that 
of sight. The sense of muscular exertion in overcoming 
resistance and counterbalancing pressure adds still further 
to the information gained by the active use of hands and 
eyes. Hands, eyes, ears, muscles, all thus assist each other, 
each filling out and perfecting the impression given by 
others and providing together a wide variety of impressions 
as a basis for intelligent adaptation. 

Such is a brief outline of the sensory connexions of the 
cerebrum. On the other hand, the cerebrum 

The Motor must be in connexion by means of 'motor' 
Machinery. J 

nerves with the organs of movement, that is, 

the muscles, in order that intelligence may adapt movement 
to the impressions of the external world supplied by the 
senses. Intelligence, interpreting the sense impressions in 
the light of past experience and of present purpose, issues 
commands for certain movements to take place. Thereupon 
impulses originating in the cerebrum flow outward along the 
motor nerves to this or that set of muscles and the appro- 
priate movement takes place, intelligence becoming aware of 
the movement and its result by the continuous activity of 
the various sense organs. The muscles in themselves have 
no power to originate movement. They only contract and 
relax when nerve stimuli prompt them. They contain the 
energy of movement, the energy to overcome resistance, to 
put forth force, but muscular energy is only released and its 
PHY. ED. 6 



82 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

action controlled by the nerve centres which govern the 
muscles. 

All movement, however, is not due to the activity of the 
will. Many movements take place independently of the 
will. Over some, such as the beating of the heart, we 
have no control ; we are not even directly aware of their 
taking place. Of others we know what is happening, but 
do not initiate and can hardly control their performance. 
For example, if the hand touch a hot surface or be pricked 
by a pin it is immediately withdrawn, almost before we 
realise what has taken place. The eyes blink instinctively 
in a strong light. The arms are thrown out and the 
head jerked back when our balance is upset. Such move- 
ments as these are not conscious intelligent adaptations. 
The will does not originate them. Intelligence may 
be aware of what is taking place, but it is a spectator 
rather than an active participant. Evidently, then, there 
is a mechanism apart from consciousness, apart from intel- 
ligence and the will, that brings about definite responsive 
movements under certain particular conditions. 

Even in actions that are initiated and controlled by the 
mind there is much with which consciousness does not 
concern itself. Consider, for example, such an action as 
writing a letter. Intelligence is engaged with the subject- 
matter and with choosing fitting phrases to express it. 
The command to write is then issued, and forthwith the 
fingers grasp the pen and the point moves, forming the 
strokes into letters and the letters into words, without the 
slightest attention being paid to many of the great variety 
of movements that make up the whole action of writing. 
The action as a whole is under the direction of intelligence 
and will, for the hand writes what the mind directs, and 
writes it quickly, or slowly, or carefully, according as 
commands are issued. The single detailed movements that 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 83 

go to make up the whole action, however, are performed 
automatically. The mind acts like the engine-driver who, 
to start his engine, pulls a lever and sets the whole ma- 
chinery into motion of a most complicated yet harmonious 
character. In a way somewhat analogous intelligence deter- 
mines the end to be attained, and the will gives the signal 
for the action to begin, whereupon the nervous and muscular 
machinery begins working and continues in an appropriate 
manner until the desired result is attained. Throughout 
the whole action, however, intelligence critically watches 
the work performed, and issues orders to augment, to lessen, 
or otherwise to modify the movements, and in this way 
keeps a general control over the movement as a whole. 
Any mistake or hesitation in a movement, too, immediately 
directs attention to the movement itself. Thus, to return 
to our example of writing, if the pen be clogged by a hair or 
splutters and scratches on the paper our thoughts are at 
once brought down from the higher flights of fancy to the 
more lowly and irritating task of overcoming mechanical 
difficulties. So long, however, as the action proceeds suc- 
cessfully and smoothly intelligence cares little about the 
mechanism of it. The important thing for consciousness 
is the result. 

Let us now carry our analysis into the details of each 
separate movement. In each individual 
The movement in the act of writing many 

of Muscular 1 musc l es of the fingers, hand, and wrist are 
Movements. brought into play. Some muscles are con- 
tracting, others relaxing. One set tends to 
counterbalance the other so as to secure greater delicacy 
and fineness of action. There is, however, a wonderful 
harmony in the coordination of all the muscular contrac- 
tions and relaxations. Each muscle must contract, or 
relax, just at the right moment, for the appropriate length 



84 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

of time, and with suitable intensity. The action of each 
separate muscle must fit harmoniously into the action of 
all the others, or confusion will result. The order and 
harmony in such movements as writing, carving, paint- 
ing, walking, and talking is, indeed, wonderful. In the 
simplest of them the complexity of the coordination in 
the action of all the muscles is very great. In the con- 
tinued action in writing a word, a sentence, and a letter 
the coordination becomes increasingly complex. When 
movements are successively combined into an activity 
lasting for a considerable period of time there is a series of 
ever- varying coordinations, of wonderful delicacy and har- 
mony, in which the actions of the many separate muscles 
are simultaneously and serially combined together to 
produce the desired result. Such coordination of muscular 
movement is of still wider range in such an act as fencing, 
where there is not only coordination of the movements 
within a muscular group, but a coordination of the action 
of groups of muscles working together. Fingers, wrist, 
arm, shoulder, body, and legs are all engaged in making 
a stroke, in assisting its force, and in maintaining the 
equilibrium of the body. 

Such coordination of movement, harmonious, without 
confusion or conflict in the play of the various muscles, is 
necessary at every moment of practical activity. It is seen 
in its highest form in such skilled actions as playing the 
piano, carving, and painting, but it is present to a greater 
or less extent in every piece of practical conduct. 

Coordination of movement is not performed by intel- 
ligence, though in a general way it is under its guidance, 
and that in some detail if occasion requires. Coordina- 
tion of movement is normally performed automatically 
through the action of the lower centres of the central 
nervous system ; that is, by those centres of bodily 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 85 

control in the spinal cord and brain the activity of 
which is not accompanied by consciousness. Though not 
directly concerned with intelligence and will these lower 
centres are, however, indirectly under their influence. 
For the original impulse to start the movement comes 
from the will, and similar impulses are continuously 
operating in the varied combining and modifying of move- 
ments which are the characteristic marks of intelligent 
action. However automatic may be the coordination of 
the elements of the action, yet in the integration of these 
elements to meet the varied circumstances of the environ- 
ment intelligence and will find their place. 

The central nervous system, then, contains the mechanism 

by which the many and various orderly and 

tion ofSensory harmonious movements of life are performed 

Stimuli and automatically, and also the mechanism by 

which such movements are combined and 

modified by intelligence to suit the varying 

situations of life. Such a nervous mechanism is the 

physical basis of skilled action. 

So far only the motor aspect has been examined. Prac- 
tical activity, however, has a dual aspect, a sensory as well 
as a motor. In all actions that are adapted to meet the 
varied circumstances of life movement is guided to its end 
by a series of perceptions. A skilled craftsman working 
in clay, wood, or stone cannot relax his attention. But 
his attention is not so much on the movements being 
made as on the material being manipulated and on the 
progress of the work. Eyes, fingers, and sense of move- 
ment supply a continual stream of impressions which his 
intelligence interprets as demands for this and that move- 
ment, and accordingly the movement is willed. 

Practical activity, then, consists of a series of move- 
ments directed to an end by a series of perceptions. There 



8S PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

is a continual correlation of sense impressions and move- 
ments. Such correlation marks all skilled conduct, for 
only by such correlation can movement be appropriate to 
varying external conditions. 1 

The work of correlating the action of senses and muscles 

and of coordinating movements of the 
The Nervous n ,, -, , , n n 

Organisation muscles is performed by the central nervous 

of Correlation system. Those elements in practical activity 
ordination ^ ia ^ are performed under the direction of the 
intelligence and the control of the will have 
their correlating and coordinating centres in the cerebral 
hemispheres. Those other elements that go on automati- 
cally have their correlating and coordinating centres in 
those parts of the brain and spinal cord the activity of 
which has no conscious accompaniment. 

Part of the nervous organisation for correlating the 
action of senses and muscles, and for coordinating the 
movements of muscles is present at birth ; it is a hereditary 
endowment, as witness such automatic action as sucking. 
Part develops as a hereditary endowment during growth, 
as in such actions as starting back from a blow or throwing 
out the arms in falling. The greater part, however, of the 
nervous organisation for skilled practical action has to be 
acquired by constant practice under the guidance of intel- 
ligence, directed by imitation and profiting by experience. 
The degree of perfection of such organisation is determined 
by the extent to which coordination of movements is per- 
fectly harmonious and appropriate to securing the end in 
view and by the extent to which the mechanism of movement 
is correlated with the action of those senses that are most 
appropriate for guiding action. The basis of such coordina- 
tion and correlation should become automatic, leaving 
intelligence free to work out higher and more complex 
1 Cf. Welton, Principles of Teaching, pp. 483-486. 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 87 

combinations, and so to adapt conduct to the changing 
conditions of the external environment and to progressive 
ideals conceived by the intelligence. 

3. The bodily machine besides containing the senses, the 

muscles, and the nervous system that corre- 

Life of S thQ C ^ ates ^ e ^ r action contains many other organs. 

Body. The body must not only deal with its external 

environment ; it must live. Hence there must 

be organs that minister to the vital needs of the tissues. 

The life of every tissue consists in the building up of 
living substance from the nutrition and oxygen supplied 
by the blood stream, and in the continual destruction of 
living substance to supply the energy of life and work. 
All work muscular, nervous, or glandular performed by 
the tissues involves an expenditure of energy. This energy 
comes from the decomposition of the living substance, just 
as the energy of a steam-engine comes from the decomposi- 
tion of the fuel. Living substance is the fuel of the energy 
of life and work. The decomposition of living substance, 
however, gives rise to certain simple substances, such as 
carbonic acid and urea, that from their action on the 
nervous and muscular tissues are harmful to life and 
functional activity. Blood fouled by an excess of urea or 
carbonic acid paralyses both muscle and nerve. These 
waste products, then, need to be removed from the system 
before their accumulation can result in harm. 

Life is thus a dual process of building up and breaking 
down. Hence the organic system of the body must contain 
two sets of organs, those that subserve the building up of 
tissue and those that remove the waste products of tissue 
decomposition. Together these organs make up the diges- 
tive, respiratory, circulatory, and excretory systems. 

The digestive system transforms the solid and liquid 
food taken through the mouth into such a form that it can 



88 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

be absorbed by the blood. The air cells of the lungs permit 
the rapid passage at every breath of a large amount of the 
oxygen of the air into the blood surrounding the air cells. 
The blood, thus supplied with nutrition and oxygen, is 
forced by the heart which is only a living pump through 
a vast and extensive system of arteries and capillaries 
which ramify and penetrate every tissue of the body. 
Every tissue is thus bathed in a continuously flowing 
vital fluid, which parts with its nutrition and oxygen 
according to the demand of the tissues for these com- 
modities. In this close contact with the tissues the blood 
receives from them the harmful waste products of decom- 
position, r and*carries them away to the excretory organs 
the lungs, skin, and kidneys which remove them from 
the blood and so keep it pure. 

Healthy life and vigorous functioning of all the living 
organs will depend, then, on the power of the digestive, 
respiratory, circulatory, and excretory systems to satisfy 
the vital demands of those organs. Should digestive 
system or lungs fail in providing sufficient and suitable 
tissue-building material, or the blood be too poor and the 
circulation too feeble to carry nutrition and oxygen in 
sufficient quantities to the tissues, then both the life of 
the tissues and their power of performing their work will be 
enfeebled. Should the excretory systems the lungs, skin, 
and kidneys be unable to cope with the effects of tissue 
decomposition the blood will become fouled with waste 
products and every organ will feel the harmful paralysing 
consequences. Poor health or weak constitution means 
the feeble or faulty action of some one or other of the 
systems subserving organic life, and is followed by a 
weakening of vitality and a loss of power throughout the 
body. The body in such a condition is but an inefficient 
instrument for controlling its environment. The nervous 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 

system is enfeebled. Work rapidly brings on fatigue and 
exhaustion. Muscular coordination is imperfect. More- 
over, since the nervous tissue of the cerebral hemispheres 
is the seat of mental processes, intellectual and volitional 
power is weakened, memory becomes feeble, and there 
ensues a disinclination to mental exertion and a loss of 
self-control. 

It has already been seen that the nervous system contains 
an organisation whereby the action of the senses and 
muscles is brought into harmonious correlation in carrying 
on the work of life with respect to external environment. 
Besides controlling this life the nervous system also 
governs the activity of the organs that administer to 
internal organic needs. Not only does the nervous system 
stimulate the life processes and the active functioning of 
the organic system, but it also regulates their activity 
according to the varying demands of the body. The need 
for nutrition and oxygen and for the removal of waste pro- 
ducts varies with the activity of the tissues. When the 
nervous and muscular systems are in energetic action there 
is a large and continuous demand for tissue-building 
material to replace that destroyed. Eapid tissue-destruc- 
tion, too, means an increasing need for rapid excretion of 
waste products. These demands must be met by a corre- 
sponding energetic action of the organs that subserve 
life processes. Such regulatory power lies in the central 
nervous system. Nerve centres exist that control the 
activity of respiration, circulation, digestion, and excretion 
in accordance with the varying needs of any organ or of 
the body as a whole. 

The centres that regulate the life processes of the body, 
however, are not directly under the control of intelligence 
and will. Consciousness is mainly concerned with the 
intelligent adaptation of conduct to external conditions. 



90 PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

The machinery of organic life runs automatically like much 
of the machinery of movement. The nervous organisa- 
tion of organic life is so attuned to the ordinary conditions 
of existence that the activity of each organ and the 
adaptation of that activity to the needs of the body 
proceed without conscious interference. Only when irre- 
gularities occur and the machine runs awkwardly do 
we become definitely aware of our organic life. Fatigue, 
physical pain, and disease force themselves upon conscious- 
ness. In good health the mind is hardly aware directly of 
what organs exist in the body. 

4. The body, then, may be conceived as a complex 

machine of many organs, each having its 

The Organism definite work to do and each dependent on 

MacMne nPleX everv other for its well-being. This com- 
munity of organs is not, however, a re- 
public, but a hierarchy having as its head the central 
nervous system. This system, by means of its nerves 
ramifying to and from every part of the body, regulates 
the action of each to the well-being of the whole, and so 
secures within limits the harmonious correlation of the 
action of all the organs to internal and external con- 
ditions. It constantly receives messages from each 
member and issues in response organised series of im- 
pulses to those parts of the machine that are best fitted 
to deal with the situation. 

Many of the nerve centres are so organised and consti- 
tuted that many of the outgoing impulses are issued as 
automatic responses to the incoming messages, and con- 
sciousness, even if it is aware of what is taking place, does 
not concern itself with coordinating the outgoing impulses 
and correlating them with the incoming ones. 

On the other hand, many of the situations of life cannot 
be dealt with in this automatic, machine-like manner. It 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 91 

is obvious that automatic machinery can only deal with con- 
ditions relatively fixed. Conduct that is adapted to the 
permanent welfare of the organism throughout life in 
an ever-changing environment demands an intelligence 
capable of rationally conceiving an ideal good and a will 
that can assert the claims of that ideal. An automatic 
machine acts blindly, and can only act well in the habitual 
conditions to which its organisation is attuned. Only 
intelligence and will can direct the behaviour of the 
organism through the changing scenes of life to ends that 
are remote and to a welfare ideally conceived. 

Over all, then, is the mind controlling the organism by 
intelligence and will. Through the cerebrum, the seat 
of mind, it is brought into connexion with the organs of 
sense and movement, and thus into touch with the external 
world so as to know it and use it for its ends. Through 
the cerebrum, too, the mind is dependent on the body for 
its well-being, since the healthy and vigorous activity of 
the mind has for its basis the healthy and vigorous physical 
life of the cerebral hemispheres. 

5. Having thus formed a conception of mind and 
body in their relation to each other, we 
The Aim of are now in a position to define more fully 
Education. ^ ie a * m ^ P nvs i ca l education. Physical 
education, it has already been seen, seeks 
to fit the child for that practical aspect of life in which 
mental powers act in conjunction with physical powers in 
practical action. To this end there must be trained those 
qualities of intelligence and will and those powers of the 
body that will make practical action effective and successful 
in the co-operative and competitive work of life. 

The first consideration of all is that the body as a 
body must have a sound and vigorous constitution. The 
nerves must be well nourished, the heart strong, and the 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

circulation vigorous, the blood pure and nourishing, the 
lungs sound and capacious, the digestion good, 

(a) With an( j the skin and kidneys energetic in action. 

Regard to the A , ..,, , . IT- - i , 

A healthy and vigorous body is essential to 



a healthy and vigorous mind. A strong and 
active intellect, and a manly, confident, and courageous 
outlook on life mean at bottom a vigorous and healthy 
constitution. The old physicians, indeed, had some reason 
in their ascription of courage to the circulation of the 
blood. 

In the next place the body must be a capable instrument 
in the service of mind. The organs of sense and movement 
must be sound and serviceable tools. The eyes, as far as 
possible, must be good instruments for seeing, and the 
ears for hearing. The muscles must be strong and capable 
of resisting fatigue, the bones hard and firm, and the 
joints free and smooth in action. The senses and muscles, 
too, must be trained to work in harmonious correlation in 
skilled action. To sum up, we may say that health, 
strength, and skill are the virtues of the body as a service- 
able instrument of mind. 

The mind, however, is the controlling factor in the 
practical affairs of life, and certain qualities 

& W ^ +1, * intellect and character are requisite for 
Regard to tne . . 

Mind. success. In practical action a different 

quality of intelligence is needed from that 
demanded by theoretic study. In the classroom and study 
judgment should be calm, quiet, and deliberate. In the con- 
stant and frequently rapid change of conditions that practical 
life presents there is often, however, no time for calm and 
deliberate contemplation. There are rather demanded 
alertness of mind to seize 011 opportunities that once lost 
may never come again, keen insight and ready ingenuity to 
make the most of one's chances, coolness yet quickness of 



IN RELATION TO MIND AND BODY. 93 

judgment, and promptness of action. Life, too, always 
includes struggle with physical nature and with one's 
fellows. In this contest above all is required that power 
of self-reliance, independence, and self-assertion that does 
not readily admit defeat. The weakly in the physical and 
human battle of life must go to the wall. Success is to 
the strong in character as well as in body. To face the 
battle of practical life needs self-confidence and courage, 
to pursue it strenuously demands hardihood and endurance 
to bear trials, and the issue calls for the power to master 
the self, to win without triumph, and to lose with a smile. 
In many aspects competitive, in others life is co-operative, 
and here different qualities of intellect and character are 
demanded. In co-operative action each participant must 
play his part manfully and loyally, show a readiness to 
subordinate the self, exercise tact and sympathy in his 
dealings with others, and give cheerful obedience to law 
and constituted authority. 

6. The aim of physical education is thus seen to be a 
very complex one and to be more intimately 
The Means of bound up with intellectual and moral training 
EducaSon than appears on the surface. Its end, so far 
as the body alone is concerned, is health, 
strength, and skill, but it seeks also to draw out, foster, 
and develop those qualities of intelligence and character 
that are required for effective and successful co-operative 
and competitive practical action. It is not by mere 
theoretic instruction in either hygiene or morals that 
this end can be attained. Contemplation of what is 
demanded by healthy, strong, and clean mental and 
bodily life is in no way a sufficient preparation for the 
active realisation of such a life. Nor is such contem- 
plation the beginning but rather the end of training. The 
mental and bodily aptitudes required by a certain type of 



94 PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

life are only evolved by leading a life that encourages 
those aptitudes in a form suited to the immature though 
growing powers of boyhood and youth and leading up to 
the fuller and more vigorous practical life of manhood. 
The school life, then, must have a practical aspect. Its 
conditions of work must make for health and strength. 
Some of its pursuits must train skill. Above all, there 
must be occupations that call for free co-operation and 
competition in practical activities requiring strength, skill, 
intelligence, and spirit. 

The pursuits and occupations of the physical aspect of 
school life must be tested by this criterion. Exercises that 
merely develop health and strength, though good in them- 
selves, cannot fully attain the desired end. They must, 
if it is found advisable to include them, be subsidiary 
to pursuits and occupations demanding intelligence and 
spirit. Modelling, carving, and handicraft are good, since 
in them skill and intelligence are exercised in relation to 
aesthetic and practical ends. Co-operative games and con- 
tests should be included, for they train not only health 
and strength but intelligence and character. It is to a 
judicious combination of physical exercises, manual crafts, 
contests, and games that the problem of physical education 
must look for its fullest and truest solution. 



CHAPTER III. 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 

1. THE body is a very complex machine whose function is 

to do work in the physical world in adapting 

The Energy itself to its surroundings and its surround- 

Movement ^ n & s ^ ^ s own nee( ^ s - Every movement of 



the body, the constant inhaling and exhaling 
of air, the continual flow of blood, and the replacement of 
the heat lost by radiation involve a continuous expenditure 
of bodily energy. Such energy is derived directly from 
the working tissues, which in turn have stored it from the 
nutriment of the blood, and the blood in its turn has taken 
it from the food and oxygen of the external world. The 
tissues in action undergo a constant diminution of their 
stock of energy which is replenished during rest. The body, 
then, may be regarded as a machine for transforming the 
energy of food into the energy of life and work, just as a 
locomotive is a machine for transforming the energy of coal 
into the energy of motion. Such a simile holds in broad out- 
line, for it is by the combustion of the coal into carbonic 
acid and water that heat is given off and ultimately work 
is done, though the details of the two processes are vastly 
different from each other. Ultimately the work done by 
the bodily machine is due to the decomposition of the food 
into simpler products such as carbonic acid, water, and 
urea. The matter and energy of the food, however, go 

95 



96 THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 

through many transformations in different parts of the 
body before the simpler substances such as carbonic acid, 
urea, and water are passed off from the body, and before 
the energy of the food appears as bodily heat and work. 
Though different from a mechanical machine the body is 
like one in that in its physical life it accords 
Transforma- with the laws of physical science. Science 
Matter and assumes that the sum total of matter and 
Energy. energy in the universe is constant : matter 

and energy, it asserts, cannot be destroyed. 
Under changing conditions each may change its form, but in 
the transformation from one form to another none is either 
lost or gained. The solid coal, that to superficial observation 
disappears as it burns in the furnace of the locomotive, is 
simply turned into gaseous vapours, and if all these vapours 
could be collected their weight would be found to be greater 
than the weight of the coal by the weight of oxygen taken 
from the air by the coal in burning. The energy of the 
moving train and of the heated and expanding steam also 
comes from the energy stored in the coal. By burning, the 
pent-up energy of the coal is released and appears as the 
energy of heat and motion. For energy may take many 
forms, such as heat, chemical force, electricity, mechanical 
motion, and cohesion. 

The energy of coal, however, is obviously very different 
from the energy of the moving train, just as 
Potential and the energy represented by a weight placed on 
Energy a table is different from the energy repre- 

sented by the same weight falling to the 
floor. The moving train and the falling weight are clearly 
doing work. Energy is in the act of changing its form. 
But the energy of a lump of coal is not of this active 
kind. While the coal remains a lump of coal no work is 
being done. There is, however, the potentiality of work- 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OP LIFE. 97 

But as long as changing conditions do not alter the state 
of the coal its energy will remain in the passive form. 
Only when the state of the coal is altered will its potential 
energy change to an active kinetic form and work be done. 

When a weight is lifted from the floor to a table, work 

is done on the weight which can be exactly 

Chemical recovered by allowing the weight to fall from 

the table to its original position. The weight 

while on the table represents a store of energy energy 

due to the position of the weight. In the same way the 

energy in coal is energy due to position ; not, however, to 

the position of coal in the mass, but to the position of its 

component elements relative to each other. 

Coal, as all know, is made up of extremely small particles 
called molecules, which in turn are composed of a number 
of still more elementary bodies called atoms. When the 
coal changes its form, as in burning, the atoms are merely 
rearranging themselves and, with the atoms of the oxygen 
of the air, are forming different kinds of molecules. Every 
chemical change is merely a rearrangement of atoms, in 
which none are destroyed and none are formed. Molecules 
may change their form, become decomposed, and new mole- 
cules be built up, but the elements of which the molecules are 
formed do not change. They simply rearrange themselves. 

In this rearrangement, however, energy is also changing 
its form. The arrangement of atoms in the molecules of 
the coal represents a fund of energy. When the coal is 
burning the atoms of the coal and those of the oxygen of 
the air rearrange themselves into molecules of carbonic 
acid and water, but in the change some of the energy of the 
coal appears as heat and as the motion of expanding gases. 
There is, however, an exact debit and credit account. The 
energy of heat and motion expresses just the difference 
between the energy of the coal and the oxygen of the air 
PHY. ED. 7 



98 THE PHYSICAL BASIS OP LIFE. 

and the energy of the resultant products of the combustion 
of these bodies. If carbonic acid and water were to be 
changed back to coal and oxygen, exactly the same 
amount of energy would have to be supplied to them as 
was given out in the reverse process of turning coal and 
oxygen into carbonic acid and water. 

A molecule of coal, then, has in a potential form more 
energy than have the molecules of carbonic acid and water 
that result from the decomposition of the coal. It may 
be said, therefore, that coal has high potential energy in 
comparison with the energy of carbonic acid and water. 
Bodies composed of molecules of a more or less unstable 
character usually have relatively high potential energy. 
The atoms constituting the molecules of such substances 
easily tend to rearrange themselves, and in the change 
energy is given off in the form of heat or motion. On the 
other hand, bodies of a stable character have usually low 
potential energy. The atoms composing their molecules 
rearrange themselves with difficulty, and, when they enter 
into chemical changes, energy frequently is absorbed rather 
than given out in forming the new molecules. Nitro- 
glycerine, oils, coal, and food substances are bodies of the 
former kind, whilst water, carbonic acid, and urea are 
substances of the latter type. . 

The body, as has been said, is a machine for transform- 
ing the matter of food into living tissue, and 
Food the its energy into the energy of life and work. 

Bodily 6 f The food su PP lied is tlie source of a11 in - 

Energy. creases in living substance. All growth is 

due to the nourishment supplied to the 
tissues by the blood, which is simply the transformed food 
that enters the mouth. On the other hand, all decrease of 
weight is due to the excess of the excreted waste products 
over the nourishment absorbed into the system. The body 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OP LIFE. 99 

is using up its living tissue faster than this is being 
replenished by the food. 

The various food-stuffs are substances of relatively high 
potential energy. They undergo many changes in the 
digestive system before being absorbed into the blood. 
Still further changes take place when the nutrition of 
the blood is built up into living tissue. Finally, how- 
ever, the matter of the food reappears in the form of 
waste products, such as carbonic acid, water, and urea, 
which are excreted from the body. These bodies have low 
potential energy. The difference in energy has been con- 
sumed in heating the body and in the performance of the 
tasks of breathing, circulation of the blood, and muscular 
movement. The energy of life and movement has its 
source entirely in the oxygen we breathe and the food we 
digest. How the body transforms the food and oxygen 
into living tissue and its energy into heat and motion is 
another question, to answer which something must be 
known of the structure of living substance. 

2. Microscopic examination shows that the tissues and 
organs of the body are collections of bodies 
The Body a o f extremely small size called cells. Every 
living plant and animal, however small or 
large it be, has this cellular structure. Many 
plants and animals consist of only one cell. Such is the 
amoeba. Its single cell performs in itself all the offices of 
life. It inhales oxygen, takes in food, secretes digestive 
fluids, excretes indigestible particles, responds by move- 
ment to the stimuli of its environment, and performs every 
kind of life process. 

Higher types of animal and plant life are really commu- 
nities of cells joined together to form a single individual. 
As in a community of men and women, there are in such 
forms differentiation and centralisation of function. Each 



100 THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 

particular form of life activity is carried on by special cells 
grouped into organs. The work of movement, for example, 
is confined to the muscle cells, which are brought together 
into solid masses to form the muscular framework of the 
body. The work of secretion is peculiar to glandular cells 
grouped together into organs. The salivary glands of the 
mouth, the gastric glands of the stomach, the liver, and the 
sweat glands of the skin are constructed of cells whose 
special function is to absorb certain substances from the 
blood. 

The more physiology penetrates into the mystery of 
animal life the more it is forced to the conclusion that the 
various activities of the organs of the body can only be 
explained by an intimate knowlege of the life and action of 
the separate cells composing these organs. The activities 
of the body, as they appear to us in the beating of the 
heart, in the inspiration and expiration of breath, in the 
movement of the limbs, in nervous conduction and control, 
in the action of the sense organs, are the mass effects of 
organs acting as wholes. Each of these activities, how- 
ever, is but the aggregated effects of the action of many 
cells of the same and of different kinds working in 
harmony, and its explanation is only to be found in the 
study of the life processes and of the special functional 
activity of each kind of cell. The explanation, for ex- 
ample, of such a movement as coughing or sneezing is 
to be sought in a knowledge of the different processes 
going on in the cells experiencing the irritant stimulus, 
in the muscle cells contracting and relaxing in response, 
and in the nerve cells that bring these two classes of cells 
into correlation. 

Whether a cell be a free, living, independent, organism 
like the amoeba, or a member of a cell community as those 
that compose the organs of a human being, the funda- 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 101 

mental life processes are, in the main, the same. Each cell 
has to live, and to live it must absorb food and oxygen, build 
these into living substance, and excrete the waste products 
which result from its life and work. Whatever be the cell 
muscle, sense, nerve, or gland cell these vital activities 
are fundamental and essential to its life and to its special 
work. The muscle cell cannot contract nor the nerve cell 
originate nerve- stimulus without also performing the vital 
processes of respiring, absorbing food, building up living 
tissue, and excreting waste products. Thus, in the special- 
isation that cell life and activity exhibit in cell communi- 
ties the cells do not lose the essential vital characteristics 
of cell life. Each kind of cell simply develops to an ex- 
treme some one form of possible cell activity. In one case 
it is contraction, in another secretion, and it is this special 
form of activity that gives to each cell its peculiar function 
and name. 

3. The cell, then, is the physiological unit. To grasp 
* the vital processes and the special activity of 

th^Cen 6 f tne various cells of tlie human body in their 
relation to each other is to understand how 
the human machine lives and does its work. Cells are 
microscopic bits of living substances, called protoplasm, 
which is sometimes surrounded by a cell wall and some- 
times not. Contained in the protoplasm is a body, called 
the nucleus, of greater refractive power, which, therefore, 
appears darker when seen through the microscope. Em- 
bodied in the interstices of the protoplasm may be various 
other substances, as oil droplets, starch grains, glycogen, 1 
pigment grains, and granular bodies of various kinds. 

Though never larger than a few millimetres in diameter, 
the cells have a variety of shapes. Some, like the amoeba 
and the white corpuscles of the blood, possess no 
1 A form of starch. 



102 THE PHYSICAL BASIS OP LIFE. 

constant shape, and change their form from minute to 
minute. Those enclosed by a cell membrane have of 
necessity a definite shape. The usual form is polyhedral, 
like the chambers of a honeycomb. Cells of this shape 
are found in the skin and in the various glands. It is 
a shape most convenient for the close packing of many 
cells in small space. There are many cells, however, 
whose shape diverges widely from the polyhedral form. 
Nerve cells, for example, have very irregular shapes, and 
send out numerous branching processes from their main 
bodies. The cells of muscles are enormously elongated, so 
that they give the appearance of long slender spindles. 

The living cell contains a liquid of a semi-viscous char- 
acter like the raw white of an egg, though its consistency 
may vary from that of a watery liquid to that of a stiff 
jelly. This is the living substance. Besides this, how- 
ever, the cell almost always contains other substances 
that are not living, but are of great importance in its life. 
These are : (1) food substances on their way to being built 
up into living tissue, (2) substances that have been 
formed by the vital processes going on in the cell, as fat 
droplets and glycogen, (3) waste products of the life and 
functional activity of the cell waiting to be exuded, as 
creatin and lactic acid. 

4. In every cell, then, is to be found both living and 

non-living substances, and it is important 

of the^eu? 68 * g ras P the physical difference between the 

one kind of matter and the other. Living 

substance is composed of the same elements as are 

found in non-living matter. Carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, 

and nitrogen are its main ingredients, and sulphur, 

phosphorus, calcium, and sodium are present in lesser 

quantities. The great size and the complexity of the 

molecule of living substances, however, are very striking 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 103 

features. Though comparatively few elements enter into 
its construction, yet the number of atoms of those elements 
and the complexity and the variety of their arrangement 
within the molecule are very great. It is to these qualities 
of the molecules that their instability is mainly due. The 
number of atoms and the complexity of their arrangement 
make many rearrangements an easy matter. Living 
matter, as everyone knows, readily decomposes into simpler 
substances. 

Nor are the chemical changes that continually take place 
in living protoplasm different in character from those that 
are to be found in the inorganic world. Molecules are 
broken up, and atoms rearrange themselves into new mole- 
cules, in living tissue, according to the action of the same 
kind of physical forces that are operative in changes in 
non-living matter. In the perpetual rearranging of atoms 
that goes on in living substance energy is constantly 
changing its form. Potential and passive in its form in 
living substances it appears as heat and motion on the 
resolution of the tissue into waste products, and every 
change is in strict accord with the fundamental laws that 
govern physical and chemical changes -in the non-living 
world. 

The peculiar property of living substance, however 
the quality that marks it as living is its power of con- 
tinually absorbing into itself new substances from the 
bodies that surround it, of building these substances into 
its own constitution, and of as continually decomposing 
and giving off waste products. Perpetual change is the 
mark of the molecules of living tissue, which must be 
regarded as having no fixed and definite constitution. The 
living molecule exists in a state of continual flux. Sur- 
rounded by the blood fluid which bathes the cells of all the 
tissues, it is continually entering into combination with 



104 THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 

groups of atoms taken from the nutritive fluid, and build- 
ing itself into an increasingly higher state of complexity. 
At the same time the atoms within the molecules are as 
continually undergoing rearrangement, and groups of 
atoms are broken off. The nutriment and oxygen of the 
blood are, then, not merely absorbed into the cell; they 
enter into chemical union with the atoms of the living 
protoplasm and become part of the living tissue; the waste 
products are the result of the decomposition of the mole- 
cules of living substance. 

In the continual rearrangement of the atoms of the mole- 
cules of living substance, either in the elaboration of the 
food and oxygen into living tissue or in the decomposition 
of living tissue into waste products, many substances are 
formed which accumulate in the cell and may be called 
by-products of cell activity. Some of these by-products 
are stored in the cell for future use and may at some time 
be absorbed again by the living tissue or by the blood. 
They thus act as reserves of nutrition. The glycogen 
formed by the liver cells and the fatty globules present in 
nearly all cells are of this kind. 

Other of the by-products may be exuded from, the cell 
and deposited round it as a framework. In this way hard 
supporting structures like bone and cartilage are built up. 

Still other of the by-products are used in the economy 
of the body. The various digestive juices belong to this 
class. The saliva formed by the protoplasmic activity of 
the cells of the salivary glands, and the gastric juice formed 
by the cells lining the walls of the stomach, have as their 
work the digestion of food substances. 

The final products of tissue decomposition are of no 
further use and are indeed harmful to cell life. It is, 
therefore, necessary for them to be excreted from the body 
before their accumulation leads to harmful consequences. 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 105 

The most important of the waste products are carbonic 
acid, urea, water, and lactic acid, the last being a substance 
that is also found in sour milk. 

It is seen, then, that the living cell manufactures many 
kinds of substances from the blood that bathes its surface. 
Some act as reserve foods, some are used in the frame- 
work of the body, some are necessary to the bodily 
economy, while some are harmful and must be got rid of. 
All, however, are the result of the ceaseless changes taking 
place in the living tissue. Some are formed in the ascend- 
ing stage, when food is being built up into living sub- 
stance ; others in the descending stage, when living 
substance is undergoing decomposition ; others may never 
have been part of the living substance at all, but formed as 
remainder products from the action of the living substance 
on the food. 

5. We have now traced in main outline the essential 
features of the vital processes of all living 

Influence of cells, whether they be muscle, gland, nerve, 
Stimuli on the n ^ r , i i -i 

Activity of or Sensor 7 cells. Jiiach particular kind ot 

Cells. cell has its own form of living tissue which 

undergoes changes peculiar to itself, but all 
are alike in that the molecules of their protoplasm are in a 
state of continual flux, building themselves up from the 
food and oxygen of the blood, decomposing into waste pro- 
ducts, and forming by-products. 

This building up and breaking down, assimilation and 
dissimilation, or to give one name to the dual process, 
metabolism, is the essential activity of life regarded in its 
physical aspect. However the cell behaves changing its 
form as in the muscle cell when it contracts, secreting 
ferments as in the digestive gland cells, storing glycogen 
as in the liver cells, excreting waste products as in the 
sweat glands of the skin, receiving stimuli from the 



106 THE PHYSICAL BASIS OP LIFE. 

external world as in the cells of sense organs, transmitting 
impulses from one part of the body to another as in the 
nerve cells its behaviour is an expression of the metabolic 
activity of the living substance of the cell. The explana- 
tion of the nature of the life of the cell and of its particular 
functional activity is to be found only in the kind of 
changes that are taking place in its living tissue, con- 
tinually and ceaselessly in the case of the vital processes, 
under special conditions when the cell is performing its 
particular function. 

A cell performs its special function only when stimu- 
lated to do so by conditions external to itself. Functional 
activity is, therefore, a response to something acting on the 
cell. The stimulus acting may be physical forces in the 
external world, or may be changes in the nature or flow of 
the blood bathing a cell, or may be the direct action of one 
cell upon another with which it is in connexion. 

Naturally the cells facing the external world are liable 
to have their metabolism modified by forces acting on the 
world outside. Waves of light, vibrations of sound, contact 
with other bodies, heat and cold, all have their first effect- 
on the body in modifying the metabolic activity of the 
cells in the eye, ear, skin and membranes of the nose and 
palate. The modified activity in the sensory cells acts 
as a stimulus to the processes of nerve cells in contact 
with them, and these in consequence have their cell ac- 
tivity modified. From nerve cell to nerve cell the stimulus 
passes, spreading itself over the nervous system as a wave 
of modified protoplasmic activity, especially in those 
directions where the connexions between the nerve cells are 
the most close and intimate. Finally it may pass from 
the nerve cells to muscle cells or gland cells, causing 
alterations in their tissue life and giving rise to contrac- 
tion or secretion. 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 107 

In the passage of the stimulus, however, from sensory 
cell to muscle or gland cell there has been no conveyance 
of energy from one part of the body to another. Each 
cell is its own storehouse of energy, and, according to the 
influences at work upon it, is either increasing or expending 
its own energy by an altered metabolism. There is only a 
conduction of stimulus by which changes occurring in one 
kind of cell produce changes it may be of a very different 
character in other cells. 

Cell activity is naturally very dependent on the nature 
of the blood that supplies it with the means for its 
metabolic changes. Any change in the amount or character 
of the blood is likely to produce very considerable modi- 
fication in the way the cell functions. An increase in the 
flow of blood through an organ stimulates the vital pro- 
cesses of the cells. Tissue changes, therefore, take place 
more rapidly, and their effect is seen in more vigorous life 
and enhanced functional power. For example, if the 
circulation of blood through the brain be increased, the 
nerve cells are stimulated to more vigorous life and 
brighter spirits and keener mental power result. On the 
other hand, if the flow of blood through the brain be, 
for a few moments, reduced by pressure on the carotid 
artery in the neck, consciousness is lost, showing that there 
is considerable modification in the metabolic activity of 
the living substance of the nerve cells. Similarly, fainting 
is frequently caused by a sudden cessation or weakening of 
the heart's action. 

The quality, no less than the quantity, of the blood 
bathing the cells has a great effect on cell metabolism. 
After a hearty meal the blood is surcharged with nutritive 
substances, and this excess stimulates all the cells of the body 
to increased tissue changes. This is shown by the fact that 
after a meal there is a considerable increase in the quantity 



108 THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 

of waste products excreted. An excess of nutrition in the 
blood, too, stimulates the cells of the liver and of the 
muscles to manufacture reserve products which they store 
up in the form of glycogen or animal starch. Should the 
blood fall below its normal standard, however, the reverse 
action of the liver and muscle cells parting with their 
reserves to enrich the blood is exhibited. In the same way 
many cells are stimulated to manufacture fat, or to part 
with it, according to the excess or defect of nutrition in 
the blood. 

The waste products of tissue life and work have a 
considerable influence on cell activity. Their action is 
harmful in that they reduce metabolic activity, and, if 
they be present in more than certain proportions, paralyse 
it altogether. The reduced mental power and force of will, 
the feelings of languor and inertness, that are the mental 
signs of a state of bodily fatigue, are examples of the 
action of waste products. The waste products derived 
from the vigorous and prolonged activity of nervous or 
muscular tissue, accumulating in the blood, act on the 
nerve cells of the cerebral hemispheres, and the modified 
activity of these cells is seen in the mental signs of 
fatigue. 

It is evident, then, that in considering the healthy life 
and active functioning of the organs of the body two 
kinds of influences have constantly to be kept in mind. In 
the first place, the quality of the blood and the vigour of 
its circulation have an important bearing 011 health and 
power. It will be the work of later chapters to show how 
good nourishment and fresh air the sources of cell energy, 
appropriate exercise to stimulate circulation, respiration, 
and excretion, and rest, sleep, and relaxation to encourage 
recuperation, are essential to healthy life and growth. In 
the second place, the condition of the nervous system has 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 109 

an important influence on organised action. In the work of 
life, senses and muscles must work together in harmonious 
action, and, as we have seen, the correlation of their activity 
and the coordination of movement is performed through 
the medium of the nerve cells that bind senses and muscles 
into one organic system. Later chapters will show that 
the nature of the nervous connexions between senses 
and muscles determines the degree of skill with which 
the organism can attain its ends in the physical world. 

6. The human organism is a vast collection of cells, 
each of which lives its own life. Yet each 
Unifying lives its life in thorough dependence on the 

he n Nee f activity of all the others. For the collection 
Cells. of cells constitutes a single individual that 

lives and acts as a whole. Hence, though 
each cell has its own life, yet each cell has apportioned to 
it some special function by which it contributes its quota 
to the life and work of the individual. The life of the 
organism as an individual is not the aggregation of the 
lives of its component cells, but the harmonious integra- 
tion of the special activities of the various groups of cells. 

Such an individual life of a collection of cells would 
not be possible without some central governing and con- 
trolling power by which the special activities of all the 
groups of cells are subordinated to the welfare of the 
whole. Such a power is exercised by the cells of the 
nervous system. The nerve cells of the brain and spinal 
cord, by their thread-like processes that ramify through 
the body, bring every cell directly or indirectly into con- 
nexion with every other cell. The function of these special 
cells is to transmit stimuli, so that conditions affecting 
one group of cells may influence the activity of groups 
of cells widely distant. The cells of the nervous system 
thus bind the community of cells into a single individual, 



110 THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. 

and, by their means, the individual can act as a whole with 
respect to its external environment or its inward needs. 
Without such a unifying system the response to stimuli 
would be confined solely to the cells directly affected, 
whereas by the connecting links of nerve cells external or 
internal conditions affecting one group of cells may be re- 
sponded to by the organism as a whole. 

One group of nerve cells stands out pre-eminently above 
all the others as having the widest and most extensive 
control over the organism throughout life. These highly 
specialised cells are those whose activity is accompanied 
by consciousness. They are, directly or indirectly, in 
connexion with all the groups of cells of the body, and 
especially with those whose peculiar function is to receive 
external stimuli and with those that execute movements. 
Hence, in particular, does this group of cells exercise a 
control over the behaviour of the organism with respect to 
its external environment. By means of the activity of 
consciousness the organism can know its present circum- 
stances, make use of its past experience, and determine 
its future welfare. Hence through consciousness the 
organism ceases to be the mere sport and plaything of its 
environment. In accordance with its idea of its own 
welfare, it can adapt itself consciously to its environment, 
or its environment to its own needs. Clearly, then, 
consciousness gives the organism still further unity, an 
added power to act as a single individual throughout 
life, for by consciousness unity of purpose and of action 
becomes possible over long periods of time. 

These highly specialised cells, however, do not differ in 
the physical aspect of their life and activity from those of 
any other cells of the organism. They absorb nutrition and 
oxygen, build up new living tissue, and excrete waste pro- 
ducts. Their special activity is, on its physical side, only 



THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE. Ill 

the modification of protoplasmic metabolism. Their health 
and power are dependent on the vigour of the circulation 
and the character of the blood. Good nourishment, fresh 
air, and vigorous circulation stimulate them to enhanced 
activity, which shows itself, in the mental side of the life of 
these cells, in higher spirits and increased mental power. 
On the other hand, poor food, foul air, stagnant circula- 
tion, and anaemic blood diminish the activity of these 
cells, and irritation and a weakening of mental power 
result. 

The health and vigour of conscious life are thus re- 
flexes of the physical health and vigour of these highly 
specialised nerve cells, and their life and activity in turn 
depend on the healthy life and the harmonious and 
vigorous activity of all the other cells of the organism. 



CHAPTER IV. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

1. THE last chapter showed that the body is a community 
of cells in which there is specialisation and 
or Neurone the centralisation of function. Groups of cells, 
Unit of Ner- collected together into organs, are specially 
vous Organisa- adapted to t]ie performance of particular 
kinds of work. The whole is brought into 
harmonious relation to inward needs and external con- 
ditions by the mass of nervous tissue called the Nervous 
System. 

The essential work of the nervous system was seen to 
be that of correlating the various activities of the dif- 
ferent parts of the organism. Nerve currents pass con- 
tinually from the sense organs, the muscles, and all the 
various tissues to the central nerve centres, and impulses 
coordinated in an orderly manner are sent to the muscles, 
heart, lungs, arteries, glands, and other organs to stimulate 
them to an activity adapted to the conditions that originated 
the initial impulses. 

Our next step is to consider the structure of the nerve 
tissue and its organisation, and to discover how these are 
adapted to perform that supreme work of correlation and 
coordination on which the orderly life and functioning of 
the whole organism depend. 

112 



THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. 



The physiological unit of body tissue is the cell, and the 
nerve cell is the unit of the 
nervous system. Its structure / 

is specially suited to the work 
of bringing distant parts of 
the body into relation with 
each other, so that excitations 
arising in one part may in- 
fluence many widely distant 
parts. 

The distinctive feature of the 
nerve cell is the 
nbre^^ 6 prolongation of 
its protoplasm 
into numerous branching, 
thread-life ' processes.' One 
such process in each cell is dis- 
tinct in structure, and probably 
in function, from all the others ; 
it is called the nerve fibre or 
axis cylinder. At intervals the 
nerve fibre sends out lateral 
branches, and both fibre and 
branches end in branching 
' fibrils,' i.e. little fibres, of 
extreme delicacy. The nerve 
fibres of the cells vary in length. 
Some are very short; others 
very long, stretching in some 
cases from the brain to the 
bottom of the spinal cord, or 
from the cord to the ends of 
the limbs. 

The other processes, called dendrites, radiate from the 
PHY. ED. 8 




Fig. 1. PYRAMIDAL CELL FROM THE 

CEREBRAL CORTEX, STAINED BY 

THE SILVER METHOD. (After 

Ramon Y. Cajal. 

pp, Dendrites ; n, Nerve Fibre ; cc, 

Collateral Branchings of the Nerve 

Fibre. 
Copied from Wundt : Principles of 

Physiological Psychology. (Sonnen- 

schein.) 



114 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



cell in all directions and are marked by an immensity 
of branching ramifications. So frequent and 
intertwining, and so delicately fine is the 

branching of the dendrites and the endings of the nerve 



Dendrites. 




Fig. 2. NERVE CELL FROM THE CORTEX OF THE CEREBELLUM, WITH RICHLY 
BRANCHING DENDRITES. (After Kollicker). 

n, Nerve Fibre ; k, Collateral Branches. 
Copied from Wundt : Principles of Physiological Psychology. (Sonnenschein.) 

fibres that, in the central system, the cell bodies seem to be 
embedded in a continuous fibrous network that knits the 
whole into a compact organ, from which issue collections 
of fibres, called the nerves, going to various parts of the 
body. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 115 

The living substance from which the processes arise is 
sometimes spoken of as the nerve cell, but 
dy ' more correctly as the cell body. It must, 
however, be clearly grasped that the processes are as vital 
a part of the cell as the cell body itself, and are simply a 
prolongation of its living substance. Sometimes, indeed, 
the nerve fibre is so long, and the dendritic processes so 
numerous and branching, that the substance of the pro- 
cesses far outweighs the substance of the cell body. It is 
convenient, therefore, to avoid confusion, and to fix the 
idea that the cell body with its nerve fibre and dendrites 
constitutes a nerve unit, to speak of the whole as a neurone. 
Most of the cell bodies are grouped together in the brain 
and spinal cord, and from these centralised masses bands 
of nerve fibres pass to the various organs. This arrange- 
ment accounts for the marked difference in the appearance 
of the central system from that of the nerves. The nerves 
are distinctly white in colour, owing to each fibre being 
surrounded by. a white sheath called the medulla. The cell 
bodies and the network of fibrillar processes have no such 
sheath, and, being plentifully supplied with blood capil- 
laries, present a pinkish grey appearance. In the central 
system the brain and the spinal cord both white and 
grey nervous tissue are to be seen ; there are pinkish grey 
territories, where cell bodies are massed in a network of in- 
terlacing fibrils, and columns and strands of white matter, 
where bands of white fibres connect one part with another. 
2. The nervous system consists of an immense number 
of neurones varying both in size of cell body 
and processes and in the extent of their 
Complex branching dendrites. In such a vast collec- 

Organisation tion it ig onl natura i to expect differentiation 
of Neurones. . J . * 

and specialisation or function . By means ot 

their nerve fibres some neurones are attached to the cells 



116 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

of sense organs, some to the cells of muscles, some to the 
cells of glands ; other neurones serve simply as connecting 
links between different groups of neurones. The cell bodies 
attached to the sense organs are open to stimuli travelling 
inward along the nerve fibres. Those attached to muscles 
or to glands originate impulses which travel outward, con- 
trolling the action of those end organs. Hence the former 
kind of neurone is termed afferent or sensory, and the latter 
efferent or motor, while the third class, which serve as con- 
necting links, are termed intercalary neurones. 

The structure of a single neurone is fairly simple, but it 
is impossible for the mind to picture in any detail the com- 
plexity and intricacy of the arrangement and organisation 
of the vast number of neurones composing the human 
nervous system. Knowledge of this arrangement is very 
far from complete, and it will be sufficient for our purpose 
to set forth a broad outline without endeavouring to fill in 
the details of the complex organisation. 

The branching processes play a most important part in 
organising the neurones into a united system. Their 
function is to bring each neurone into intimate relation 
with many other neurones. Through such connexions an 
excitation passing along one neurone can stimulate to 
action many other neurones passing to distant and diverse 
parts. Thus conditions affecting one part of the body 
may through a chain of connecting neurones call out 
responses in various parts of the body. For example, the 
neurones controlling the action of a muscle are by their 
ramifying dendrites open to excitations from many direc- 
tions. A pin prick, an object seen, heard, tasted, or 
smelled, an impulse originating in the cerebrum, each may 
cause the same muscle to function. The efferent neurones 
directly attached to muscles or glands serve, by means 
of the many connexions established by the branching 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 117 

dendritic processes, as common paths for excitations arising 
in very various and distant parts. 

On the other hand, a sensory stimulus passing inward 
may discharge itself along many paths. The excitation 
caused by a pin prick ultimately reaches many destinations 
either by direct or by roundabout paths. We have a 
consciousness of pain, we utter sounds, we withdraw the 
limb affected, we may even in severe cases stamp our feet 
and contort our bodies, we hold our breath, the heart-beat 
is affected. The incoming stimulus travelling along the 
afferent fibres reaches the central system and spreads itself 
out, by means of the various connexions established by the 
branching processes, in many diverse paths. Of course, 
the wave does not travel indiscriminately over the whole 
system. It can only travel where connexions are established, 
and it travels most easily along those paths where the con- 
nexions are most close and intimate, and where there is, 
consequently, least resistance to conduction. It is natural 
to expect, then, that the stronger the stimulus the more 
widely will the wave spread over the various paths open to it. 
A stimulus of weak intensity will cause a slight response, as 
when the eye blinks to a ray of sunlight or the head turns 
to a slight noise. A bright intense flash of lightning and 
a loud clap of thunder may, however, cause violent starting 
and trembling of the whole body and even in some cases 
general convulsions. 

3. A stimulus that induces activity in a neurone can 

cause excitations of two distinct kinds in the 

Excitatory living protoplasm of the nerve cell. Cell 

Inhibitory ^ e ' ^ ^ ias been seen, consists of combined 

Impulses. ascending and descending metabolism of the 

molecules of the living substance. There is 

a building up and a breaking down of the molecules. 

Ordinarily the two balance each other, so that, >in the 



118 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

cell as a whole there is equilibrium. As much energy is 
being stored up as is given off. Stimuli acting on the 
cell can, however, influence this metabolic activity in two 
ways. They may cause an increase in the building up 
process, i.e. in the storing up of energy, or an increase 
in the breaking down process, i.e. in the giving out of 
energy. Whichever of the two processes any given stimulus 
influences we may expect its effect to be of an opposite 
character to that of the other. If the one results in the 
contraction of muscle or in gland secretion, the other will 
tend to produce inhibition of movement or secretion. 

That two kinds of nerve impulses, one of an excitatory 
character, the other inhibitory, can be generated is easily 
illustrated. Almost all cases of restraint of such instinctive 
movements as coughing, sneezing, starting at sudden 
sounds, and subduing emotional expression are instances 
in which inhibitory impulses wholly or partially over- 
come impulses to movement. Both kinds of nervous 
impulse are exemplified in muscular movement. Every 
movement is executed by the harmonious action of two sets 
of muscles, the flexors and the extensors. One set bends a 
limb on itself, the other straightens the limb out. When 
one set contracts, the other relaxes. So that in a complex 
movement a series of waves of impulses is proceeding to 
the muscle group, causing at one moment certain muscles 
to contract and others to relax, and at another moment the 
former to relax and the latter to contract. The waves 
proceeding to the muscles are thus coordinated series of 
excitatory and inhibitory impulses. One set produces con- 
traction, the other relaxation. 

We must imagine, then, that every afferent stimulus 
influences many sets of neurones according to the con- 
nexions that exist, and spreads itself out over many paths, 
in some as an excitatory impulse, in others as an inhibitory 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 119 

one. Since many such stimuli are passing inward from 
the sense organs every moment, it is easy to understand that 
the same set of neurones may be influenced by stimuli from 
two or more different quarters. Impulses, in that case, 
will interfere with each other. Those of the same charac- 
ter, by combining in their action, will produce an increased 
effect : those of opposite character will neutralise each other. 
The former case is exemplified when both the sight and 
the smell of an object lead to the action of grasping it ; 
the latter is seen when we force ourselves to touch an un- 
pleasant surface or to swallow a distasteful draught. 

4. The nervous system, it has been seen, has the supreme 
function of correlating and coordinating the 
action of the many organs of the body. It 
is natural to expect, then, that the junctions 
between the various sets of neurones from the organs of 
the body are important places for the correlating and 
coordinating of nervous excitations. The junctions of sets 
of neurones are called centres. They usually consist of 
collections of cell bodies with their interlacing dendritic 
processes. Connexions with other sets of neurones are 
made by the latter, which mingle with the branching 
endings of the fibres of other neurones. 

The centres, however, are more than mere junctions. To 
borrow an analogy from the telephone, they are receiving 
and transmitting stations for the control of the activities of 
definite bodily areas. Messages are received along the 
incoming neurones, and appropriate orders are transmitted 
along the outgoing neurones to the end organs. We must 
not, however, regard the neurones as mere conductors of 
nerve currents, nor think that an incoming current is 
merely deflected at a centre into an outgoing one. An 
excitation in one neurone induces excitations in those 
neurones that are in connexion with it. 



120 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

At a centre, then, where many neurones are brought into 
connexion, the incoming excitation will induce outgoing 
waves in those neurones that radiate from the centre. 
Some of these waves may be inhibitory, others excitatory, 
according to the character of the initial wave, the nature 
of the connexion, and the state of the neurones. For 
example, when the hand is withdrawn from a pin prick 
there are sent out from the centre controlling the action 
both inhibitory and excitatory impulses that cause some 
muscles to contract and others to relax. Usually the 
resulting movement is an action appropriate to the circum- 
stances that initiated the incoming stimulus, as in the case 
of coughing or sneezing when the nose or throat is irritated, 
or when, in willing the hand to write, appropriate move- 
ments of grasping the pen and making definite marks on 
the paper result. The outgoing waves to the muscles are 
definitely coordinated in a perfectly orderly manner so as 
to produce the movement required. 

Thus, a nerve centre contains the organisation for 
adaptive action. It not only controls the activity of certain 
parts of the body, but controls it so as to produce definite 
actions appropriate to the circumstances that initiate the 
incoming stimuli. 

5. The activity of the body, then, is controlled from the 
nerve centres. The correlation of the activity 
The Different of the organs, however, presents very different 
Nerve 8 * degrees of complexity. On the one hand, such 

Centres. simple actions as blinking the eye in response 

to a flash of light exhibit a relatively low 
degree of correlation. On the other, an artistic perform- 
ance on the violin, where the movements vary from 
moment to moment and yet the whole action is a har- 
monious and artistic unity, shows a correlation of a vastly 
higher and more complex nature. We may, then, expect to 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 121 

find in the nervous system different orders of centres for 
controlling actions of different degrees of complexity. 

The simplest form of nerve centre is seen in those centres 
that control such simple instinctive actions 
Centres for as sneezing, coughing, blinking, and with- 
Action! drawing the hand or foot from a noxious 

object. Such actions are termed reflex, be- 
cause the incoming stimulus, at first sight, appears to be 
deflected, or reflected, at the centre into an outgoing im- 
pulse. The action, however, is not so simple as mere 
reflexion. The centre contains some form of organising 
machinery. The afferent neurones are in such relation to 
the efferent neurones that incoming stimuli induce a coordi- 
nated series of excitatory and inhibitory impulses that 
result in an action of a definite kind. 

Such actions as these are usually very localised in their 
character, and are not the response of the organism acting 
as a whole. Blinking, sneezing, and coughing are certainly 
not general responses of the whole body. In each case the 
action is confined to a very limited group of muscles which 
responds to a stimulus of a strictly local and definite 
character. It is not, then, remarkable that actions of this 
kind take place, to a large extent, independently of the 
intelligence and the will, since the function of the mind is 
rather to deal with the welfare of the organism as a whole 
than with the separate and independent needs of one part. 
No doubt, as a rule, the mind is aware of what is going on. 
In sneezing, for example, we are only too painfully conscious 
of the irritation of the membrane of the nasal passage and 
of the violent exertions of the respiratory machinery to 
effect a cure. Yet we do not will the sneeze; we may 
rather be said merely to witness and suffer it. The centres 
for this kind of simple reflex action, then, are largely 
independent of the centres of intelligence and will. 



122 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

But they are not wholly independent. Though we fre- 
quently fail entirely to check sneezing and coughing, yet 
many of the local reflex actions are lessened in intensity 
and modified in character by the supervising action of the 
higher centres of voluntary action. Much of good manners 
consists in the strict voluntary control of emotional expres- 
sions of a reflex character. Society demands that the 
young be trained to preserve a calm exterior whatever be 
the agitation within. In such cases the centres of voluntary 
control seek to inhibit the excitatory impulses flowing from 
the simpler and more local centres controlling limited areas 
of the body. 

These centres of reflex action are examples of the simplest 
form of nerve centre. Those that govern 
Centres for more complicated actions, such as walking, 
Automatic talking, and fencing, are much more complex. 
Action. Such movements, though largely automatic in 

character, are not confined to one local group 
of muscles, but involve the concerted action of many groups 
in various parts of the body. The organism, in such actions, 
acts as a whole. In fencing, for example, not only are the 
muscles of the fingers, wrist, and arm employed in con- 
trolling the movements of the foil, but the muscles of the 
eyes, head, neck, body, and legs are brought into action in 
watching one's opponent and in continually altering the 
poise of the body. Thus there is required not only a coordi- 
nation of impulses issuing to the muscles within a single 
muscle group, but, to produce harmonious and concerted 
action in many groups of muscles acting simultaneously 
and serially, a coordination of a much higher order. 

Moreover, the correlation of incoming with outgoing 
currents is of a more complex nature than is exhibited in 
simple reflex action. Incoming impulses originate in many 
sense organs in different parts of the body. Not only 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 123 

does the fencer watch his opponent, but his movements 
are guided by the pressure of the foil, and his poise 
is determined partly by sight, partly by his sensations of 
movement, and partly by the pressure of his feet on the 
ground. The sense organs as a whole, in such an action, 
must be united in correlated action, and, further, must 
be correlated with the coordinated movements of the body 
as a whole. The nerve centres controlling actions of this 
kind must, then, have nervous representations from all the 
sense organs and all the muscles involved. They must be 
centres in which the sense organs as a whole are brought 
into intimate relation with the muscular system as a whole, 
in such a way as to produce harmonious action of the 
organism as a whole. 

The highest form of nerve centre is seen in the cerebrum, 
the centre involved in intelligent action. Its 

Centre for work is of a most complex character. The 
Intelligent . . ,, ., , . . . 

Conduct. activity ot its nervous tissue is, in some un- 

known way, related to mental activity. The 
perception of things, the conception of abstract qualities 
and relations, the performance of voluntary movements, the 
emotions all have some counterpart in physical activity 
in the nervous tissue of the cerebrum. The nature 
of the connexion that exists between mental states and 
nerve states is beyond our knowledge, but the fact is 
familiar. 

The function of intelligence in life is to secure unity of 
purpose and of action. In a previous chapter it has been 
seen that the essential characteristic of the human mind 
is its power of conceiving the lasting and permanent 
welfare of the organism and of adapting the conduct of 
the organism as a whole to that ideal in the varying cir- 
cumstances of life. In such conduct past experience is an 
essential factor in securing unity of purpose and of action. 



124 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

Intelligent adaptation of means to an end necessitates 
memory and the power to guide present conduct in the 
light of memorised experience. Such conduct is well 
exemplified in the mental aspect of such an act of skill as 
fencing. In fencing a man has his attention occupied not 
only with incoming impressions but also with past ex- 
periences. His attention is fixed on his opponent. He 
watches his eyes and movements. He feels the pressure 
of his foil. These impressions of sight, movement, and 
pressure are, however, but signs which he has to interpret. 
They are only the raw material out of which he will, by 
his past experience, construct an idea of his opponent's 
strength and weakness and of his plan of attack and line 
of defence. His intelligence, moreover, goes beyond the 
present into the future. With the knowledge he has 
gained of his opponent, together with the knowledge of his 
own skill, he plans for himself a system of attack and 
defence suited to the circumstances. Conceiving the future 
in' this way, he lays traps for his opponent. He watches 
for openings and chances that are already foreseen, and is 
thus ready to seize on them and turn them to his 
advantage when the first sign of them is presented to his 
perception. 

Intelligence thus builds up a complex mental structure. 
It endeavours, out of the impressions from the many 
sense organs and with the memory of past experiences, to 
construct an idea of what is and what might be, and to 
form plans of action by which the former may develop 
into the latter. Intelligence thus forms correlations and 
coordinations of various kinds of activities on a plane much 
wider and more extensive than is seen either in simple 
reflex action or in purely automatic action. All the senses 
and organs of movement are involved not only in present 
action, but also in past conduct and with regard to future 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 125 

conduct. Intelligence correlates the past with the present 
and anticipates action in the future. In this way the con- 
duct of the organism is unified over considerable periods of 
time. 

The unifying action of the cerebrum is still further 
brought home to us when we consider the nature of mental 
life. The mind is essentially a unity. It is the same mind 
that perceives the yellow roundness of an orange, wills to 
seize it, guides the movements in grasping and feeling, and 
experiences the pleasure of tasting the sweet juice. This 
oneness of mental life is further exemplified when we 
distinguish the elements that may exist in any experience. 
Various kinds of sensations of sight, of touch, of taste, 
of movement with their accompanying pleasurable or 
painful tone, may all be brought together in one experience 
of an object, and in the recollection of that experience 
any one element reproduced may be the means of recalling 
the rest. Furthermore, all movements are under the con- 
trol of the will, and intelligence may guide them to their 
end by means of impressions received from any of the 
sense organs, or by the sense of movement. 

It is clear, then, that in the cerebrum, the centre of 
intelligent action, every bodily function that has a mental 
correlative will be represented. Nerve paths from the 
sense organs will terminate in this centre, and from it will 
originate paths that end in the executive organs whose 
actions can be controlled by the will or affected by conscious 
states. Though so many sets of neurones terminate, or 
find their origin, in the cerebrum, yet they are bound 
together into one central organ, for, as we have insisted, 
the cerebrum's main function is to secure unity of action. 
The activity of any of the senses can be correlated with 
the action of any of the muscles, and any one group of 
muscles can function at will in coordination with any other 



126 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

group. The cerebrum, therefore, is the supreme head 
centre for controlling the organism throughout life. It 
correlates and coordinates in accordance with an intelligent 
purpose the action of senses and muscles, and through the 
power of memory and reason secures unity of conduct over 
long periods of time. 

It is seen, then, that the central nervous system consists 
of a large number of nerve centres which, however, are 
bound together by connecting strands into one organ. 
Some of the centres are simple, controlling the functions 
of limited bodily areas. Others are complex, governing 
the concerted action of parts widely distant. All act 
under the supreme centre, the cerebrum, which unifies the 
conduct of the whole organism with respect to a welfare 
ideally conceived. 

6. Before considering the definite function of the various 
nerve centres it will be convenient to have some general 
notion of the build of the central system. 

The brain is contained within the skull, and the spinal 

cord within the vertebral columns. In the 

Structure of embryo, that mass of cells which is to 

the Central develop into the nervous system shows 

itself as a hollow tube ' the fore end f 
which undergoes considerable development 

to form the brain. 

At an early stage this portion enlarges into a bladder- 
like formation which divides into three parts, fore, mid, 
and hind brains. From the anterior portion of the fore 
brain grows the olfactory nerve, and the optic and auditory 
nerves develop from the mid and hind brain respectively. 
The great development of this portion of the neural tube 
is probably due to the important part the three organs of 
smell, sight, and hearing play in controlling the actions 
of the organism as a whole with respect to its environment. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



127 



To effect such a purpose these centres must not only 
contain nervous elements from these three important sense 
organs, but also representations from every part of the body 
with which these sense organs have to work in correlation. 
Hence it comes about that the brain contains nervous 



Cm 



Th 




Cb 



Fig. 3. MEDIAN SECTION OF THE HUMAN BRAIN. Copied from Wtindt : Principles 
of Physiological Psychology (Sonnenschein). 

C, Cerebral Hemisphere ; Th, Thalamus ; Q, Quadrigeminum ; Cb, Cerebellum ; 
Cm, Band of Commissural Fibres ; P, Pons ; B, Bulb. 



representations of all parts of the body and governs the 
conduct of the organism as a whole. The brain, indeed, 
represents the organism as a single individual. 

Of the three segments of the brain the fore and hind 
undergo the greatest development. Two large lobes, the 
cerebral hemispheres, grow from the sides of the fore 
brain. These lobes enlarge to such an extent in all 



128 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

directions, forward, backward, downward, and upward, 
that finally they entirely overlap the mid brain and even 
project over the hind brain. 

In the hind brain the floor of the hinder portion thickens 
to form the bulb, while its roof remains entirely unde- 
veloped and is seen as a lozenge- shaped opening. The 
roof and sides of its fore portion expand, and form the 
cerebellum or little brain which overhangs the hinder 
portion. The floor of this fore portion thickens to form 
the pons or bridge, so called because it consists largely 
of strands of fibres joining the right and left lobes of the 
cerebellum. The fibres of the bulb pass through the pons 
interlacing with its transverse fibres, and, enlarged by fibres 
from the pons, they proceed forward into the floor of the 
mid brain, forming two distinct bands the crura cerebri, 
or legs of the cerebrum in the floor of the mid brain. 
These strands diverge, and each enters the cavity of the 
cerebral hemisphere of its own side, and, with its fibres 
radiating fan-like, passes into the substance of the cerebral 
walls. 

The roof of the mid brain grows into four globe-like 
bodies, the corpora quadrigemina or the four twin bodies, 
while the walls of the fore portion develop into two large 
masses, the optic thalami, which project into the cavity of 
the fore brain. 

We have continually insisted on the fact that the 
central system is a collection of nerve centres. These 
centres consist of a collection of cell bodies in a network of 
interlacing fibrils from the dendritic processes and nerve 
fibres. The centres are joined together into one compact 
system by an extensive network of similar grey matter com- 
posed of ramifying and interlacing fibrils. Besides this 
column of grey matter extending throughout the whole 
central system, bands of white fibres, which pass upwards 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, 2 

and downwards and across, bind the centres together and 
form the means whereby centre can act with centre, and 
the whole function in harmonious action. 

7. The centres in the spinal cord are the simplest in 

structure, and it would be well to under- 

Structure of stand clearly the arrangement of the afferent 

Centres **** an( ^ e: ^ eren ^ neurones in these centres before 

considering the arrangement in the more 

complex centres of the brain. 

The spinal cord is cylindrical in shape, with a small 
neural canal running through its whole length, a continua- 
tion of the larger vesicles of the brain. It is brought into 
relation with the bodily organs which its centres control by 
thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves. Each spinal nerve joins 
the cord by two roots : one, the dorsal or posterior, con- 
sists of afferent sensory fibres ; the other, the ventral or 
anterior, of efferent or motor fibres. The two roots remain 
separate for a short distance, during which the sensory root 
passes through a ganglion of nerve cells. Beyond this the 
roots unite into one nerve, which distributes itself over 
that part of the body whose activity it governs. 

The arrangement of the grey and white matter in the 
cord is fairly regular throughout its own length. The 
grey matter is situated in the centre of the column and is 
in the form in cross section of a double crescent joined by 
a narrow isthmus which encloses the neural canal. Outside 
this are bands of white fibres passing lengthwise up and 
down, while one thin strand of fibres, called the white 
commissure, anterior to the neural canal, joins one side 
with the other. 

At the junctions of nerve and cord the cells in the grey 

matter are more numerous. In the intervals between the 

junctions the cells are scarcer and the grey matter is 

largely composed of the interlacing network of branching 

PHY. ED. 9 



130 THE NERVOTJS SYSTEM. 

dendrites and fibre endings. The grey matter of the cord 
may, then, be conceived as a number of paired ganglia, each 
receiving an afferent and giving off an efferent nerve root. 
Each pair of ganglia is joined by an isthmus of grey 




Fig. 4. SECTION OF SPINAL CORD SHOWING DOUBLE CRESCENT OF GREY MATTER 
AND SENSORY AND MOTOR NERVE ROOTS WITH SPINAL GANGLION. 



fibrillar network, while the pairs are joined longitudinally 
by the grey column and the white bauds of fibres lying on 
the outside of the cord. 

Each ganglia is a nerve centre, and its function is to 
bring various sets of neurones into definite connexion, so 
that stimuli reaching the centre either from the periphery 
of the body or from some other part of the central system 
can induce definitely coordinated outgoing impulses. The 
connexions it makes are, therefore, of two distinct kinds. 
First, afferent neurones connected with some sensory area 
of the body are brought directly and immediately into 
relation with efferent neurones proceeding to muscles or 
other bodily organs. Second, the efferent neurones are 
brought into connexion with fibres from the higher centres 
in the brain. In the front horns of the crescent are 
numerous and large cell bodies. Each gives off a fibre, 
which passes into the efferent root, and so to the glands or 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



131 



M, 



muscles, the action of which the centre governs. The 

deiidrites of these cells ramify largely in the grey matter, 

and, as will be seen, are 

brought into connexion with 

the terminal fibrils of the 

nerve fibres coming to the 

centre. 

The fibres of the sensory 
root follow a different course. 
Their cell bodies make up the 
ganglion of the sensory root. 
Each of these cell bodies 
gives rise to a fibre that soon 
divides into two portions. 
One passes to the sensory 
region in the periphery of 
the body ; the other enters the 
cord and divides at once into 
an ascending and a descend- 
ing part, Each of these gives 
off lateral branches which 
terminate in the grey matter 
in branched endings. The 
main stems, after travelling 
some distance, finally end in 
a similar way in the grey 
matter. 

By means of these several branchings the sensory fibres 
are brought directly into relation with many sets of motor 
neurones (1) with those of the same segment and 011 the 
same side, (2) with those of the same segment, but on the 
opposite side, (3) with those of segments situated above 
and below. Stimuli, therefore, which enter the cord from a 
sensory area can thus directly induce discharges to organs 




Fig. 5. DIAGRAM SHOWING ARRANGE- 
MENT OF NEURONES IN SPINAL 
CENTRE. 
S, Sensory Neurone ; S, , Conduction 

Path to Higher Centres; M, Motor 

Xeurone ; 3/,, Conduction Path from 

Higher Centres. 



132 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

controlled from the same segment or from segments higher 
up or lower down. The spinal centres, then, do not act in 
isolation. Many can be thrown into action by the same 
sensory stimulus ; the result is movement in several bodily 
areas. It is clear that though the afferent and efferent 
fibres of each segment are correlated, yet, by the distribution 
of the sensory fibres, the cord can act as a whole. It is 
not a mere collection of independent centres, but a united 
system of centres. 

8. Each centre, besides bringing its efferent neurones 

into connexion with its own afferent neur- 
Nerve Tracks ones, brings them into connexion with fibres 
Spinal and coming from the higher centres in the brain. 
Brain Centres. Bands of fibres descend from the cerebrum, 

the mid brain, and the cerebellum, and give 
off to each ganglion fibres whose branched endings make 
connexion with the dendritic processes of the motor 
neurones that leave the cord. 

The most distinct descending path is from the cerebrum. 

Two large bands of fibres pass from the two 
Tracks cerebral hemispheres, through the crura 

cerebri and the pons to the base of the bulb. 
Here the majority of the fibres cross from side to side. 
The crossed fibres then descend in two distinct paths, the 
pyramidal tracts, down the whole length of the cord, giving 
off fibres to the efferent motor neurones in each segment of 
the cord. The uncrossed fibres also pass downward and 
cross in various parts of the cord, forming the transverse 
white commissure previously mentioned. Hence the motor 
areas of the right hemisphere control the muscles of the 
left side of the body, and those of the left hemisphere the 
muscles of the right side. 

Besides this direct path from the cerebrum to the various 
spinal centres there are other paths from the brain centres 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 133 

in the cerebellum and mid brain, so that all the main brain 
centres, which govern the conduct of the organism as a 
whole, make connexions with the spinal centres, and 
stimuli from these higher centres can thus induce co- 
ordinated discharges from the spinal centres to the 
muscles and other organs controlled directly from the 
cord. 

It has been seen how sensory fibres entering the cord 
distribute themselves upward and downward 
an( ^ so ma ^ e connexion with several spinal 
centres. It now remains to be seen how 
sensory stimuli entering the cord by these fibres reach the 
higher centres in the brain. Ascending paths to the 
brain consist of chains of neurones forming many links 
before they finally terminate in the sensory areas of the 
cerebrum. This chain structure seems to be specially 
suited to securing the divergent distribution of sensory 
stimuli in many directions. Each junction in the series 
presents an opportunity for the ascending stimulus to 
induce excitations in neurones converging on, or rather 
diverging from, the junction. In the bulb and mid brain 
in particular are nuclei of cell bodies whose special function 
seems to be that of distribution. On the one hand, these 
cell bodies are in connexion with the endings of the sensory 
fibres entering the cord ; on the other, with fibres that pass 
to the cerebellum and the centres of the mid brain, from 
which further continuations proceed to the cerebrum. 
Besides this interrupted afferent path there are two bands 
of fibres that bring the sensory fibres of the cord into 
direct connexon with the cerebellum. 

Thus, on the sensory side afferent impulses entering the 
cord may set into action (1) the simple centres of the cord, 
(2) the higher centres in the bulb, mid brain, cerebellum, 
and cerebrum, and this because of the interrupted structure 



134 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

of a chain of neurones forming many links and thus giving 
ninny opportunities for divergent distribution. 

9. The bulb and pons, besides being the highway through 

which ascending and descending fibres pass 
Centres for between the cord and the centres above the 
Nerves. bulb, and besides possessing nuclei of nerve 

cells which act as centres for the distribution 
of afferent stimuli to the different higher centres, contain a 
number of centres from which originate the majority of 
the cranial nerves. 

These in their general plan follow the structure already 
described with respect to the spinal centres. They bring 
afferent and efferent neurones from the bodily organs 
directly into connexion with each other and with fibres 
passing along the main sensory and motor tracts already 
mentioned, and thus connect them with the higher centres 
above. 

10. The cerebellum, the mid brain, and the cerebrum are 

the most important centres of a higher order 
of the^rSn ^J which correlations and coordinations of a 

more complex kind are carried out. 
The cerebellum, as has been seen, is the enlargement of 

the roof and sides of the fore part of the 
The Cerebellum hi n( j brain, and consists of three lobes a 
Connexions. central and two lateral. The arrangement of 

white and grey matter in this centre differs 
from that in all other parts of the nervous system except 
the cerebrum. The grey matter, consisting of cell bodies 
and interlacing network of fibrils, is situated 011 the outside, 
and is called the cortex. Fibres in three masses pass from 
the cortex to the centres above and below. First, as has 
been already described, afferent fibres pass from the cord 
in two bands, some directly, others by way of the dis- 
tributing centres in the bulb. In the second place, motor 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 135 

fibres pass from the cerebellum to nuclei in the pons, by 
which they make connexions with the motor tracts passing 
from the cerebrum to the cord. Lastly, fibres pass forward 
to the centres in the mid brain and to the cerebrum. The 
cerebellum is, therefore, a kind of shunt from the main 
sensory and motor tracts which connect the cerebrum and 
the cord, and its function is that of acting as a kind of 
automatic regulator of complex actions of the body as a 
whole. 

In actions such as walking, dancing, and lifting weights, 
which involve movements of the body as a 

Function whole, the balance of the body is continually 

of the _ ,, J 

Cerebellum. being disturbed and many muscles of the 

trunk and limbs are as continually being 
exercised to maintain a correct attitude. The maintenance 
of equilibrium, even for a moment, is a very complex 
muscular act, while in a prolonged movement it is only by 
the harmonious concerted action of the whole muscular 
framework that the balance is continuously maintained 
through constantly changing attitudes. Usually the 
balance of the body is kept by entirely automatic impulses 
to the muscles. Only under special difficulties, as in 
walking on a tight rope, is the automatic control assisted 
by voluntary effort. The automatic nature of the main- 
tenance of equilibrium is well exemplified when a man 
suddenly loses his balance. If a man suddenly stumbles 
forward, his arms are shot out and his head and body are 
jerked back with a suddenness that is little consonant with 
intelligent action. The attempt to recover the balance 
is thus on the same level of automatism as is starting 
back from a blow or blinking the eyes to a flash of 
light, 

Since the maintenance of equilibrium is automatic, the 
sensory impressions that are primarily instrumental in 



136 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

stimulating the muscles to action are largely those that 
do not figure in full conscious life. As a matter of fact 
they are those that, as a rule, are in the background of 
consciousness and only come into the foreground of mental 
life when specially attended to. The best known of the 
impressions that stimulate the muscular frame to preserve 
its balance are impressions of sight from surrounding 
objects, especially from the floor and ground and from 
vertical walls, impressions of the movements of the body 
and limbs and of the pressure of the body, and impressions 
of the contact of the soles of the feet with the ground. 
Besides these there are others less known. In the in- 
ternal ear are three structures, called the semi-circular 
canals, placed at right angles to each other and filled with 
liquid. Any change of position of the body, to right or 
left, forward or backward, causes some movement of 
the liquid in one or other of these canals, and the canals 
being well supplied with sensory nerves, impressions that 
are largely used in the automatic maintenance of balance 
are conveyed to the brain. 

The continuous and automatic maintenance of equili- 
brium of the body in its constantly changing attitudes is, 
it is generally thought, the work of the cerebellum. The 
connexion of this centre with the principal sensory and 
motor tracts from and to the cord is thus explained. It 
has to receive impressions from the feet, from all the 
muscles, from the eyes, and from the ears, and to send 
impulses to the muscles of the whole frame. It must thus 
stand in almost as central and dominant a position with 
respect to the body as the cerebrum itself. On the other 
hand, since equilibrium has to be maintained in voluntary 
movements, its connexion with the cerebrum must be 
intimate and close. Its position as a kind of shunt 
between the cerebrum and the cord is thus clear, since the 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 137 

voluntary control of the cerebrum over the muscles of the 
body must be in harmony with the automatic preservation 
of equilibrium by the cerebellum. 

The centres in the mid brain act as intermediary stations 

for both sensory and motor paths. They 

and^unetion t&ke U P fibres from all the centres below 

of the Centres them, and pass fibres forward to the cerebral 

of the Mid hemispheres. Their function is an important 

one in the control of conduct, involving 

activities of several sense organs and many groups of 

muscles. 

In a voluntary action much of the coordination and 
correlation of the elements out of which the action is 
constructed is of an automatic character. Whatever part 
of the control of the action is performed by intelligence 
has undoubtedly its seat in the centres of the cerebral 
hemispheres. But these centres function over those in the 
mid brain and the spinal cord. They do not act directly 
on the muscles. It is only through the lower centres that 
those in the cerebral hemispheres can act on the organs of 
movement. It is natural, therefore, to expect the centres 
in the cerebral hemispheres to make use of whatever 
organisation for movement exists in the lower centres. 
Hence, some part of automatic coordination and correlation, 
especially that which is simple and confined to activities of 
a limited bodily area, is the work of the spinal centres. 
Some, of a wider and more complex character, is carried 
out by the centres in the mid brain. Probably, also, 
some part of the automatic element is due to the activity 
of the centres in the cerebrum. Thus, in any piece of 
intelligent conduct, control is not centred solely in one 
part of the central nervous system, but is distributed 
throughout the centres in an ascending order of com- 
plexity, 



138 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

The cerebral hemispheres, with the enlargements in the 
floor of the fore-brain, are the final terminal 
The Centres stations of the sensory and motor paths of 
Cerebrum conduction. The grey matter, called the 

cortex, and consisting of cell bodies and a 
network of infinitely interlacing and branching fibrils, lies 
on the outside. The white matter is in the interior and 
consists of bands of nerve fibres that come from and pass 
to the centres beneath. Besides these bands of fibres there 
are numerous connecting or commissural strands that bring 
the various parts of the cortex into intimate relation with 
each other. So numerous and intricate are these con- 
necting bands that it is evident that their function is so 
to bring all parts of the cerebral cortex into relation that 
the cerebrum can act as a whole and not merely as a 
number of more or less independent centres. 

Through the cerebrum the behaviour of the organism is 
controlled in an intelligent and voluntary manner. Hence, 
every sensory and motor activity that is concerned in 
voluntary conduct must be represented in the cortex of the 
hemispheres. This representation of bodily activities is 
very markedly shown in the division of the cortex into 
area's corresponding to the different bodily activities. The 
main division is into a sensory and a motor area; the 
former being chiefly instrumental in the life of sensation, 
the latter in the control of movement. Each of these areas 
is further divided : the sensory into areas of vision, touch, 
taste, sound, and the other sensory activities, the motor 
into areas corresponding to the different movements of the 
body. 

The cortex of the cerebral hemispheres may thus be 
regarded, not as one centre, but as a collection of centres 
representing the different bodily activities. And each of 
these cortical centres is a true centre, for it is not so much 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 139 

organs as activities that are represented. Each area is, in 
the full sense of the term, a centre for correlating and co- 
ordinating activities into a definite action. The centre of 
vision, for example, not only contains representations from 
the organ of sight, but from all the other organs, sensory 




Fig. <3. DIAGRAM OF THE LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN SHOWING MOTOR 

AND SENSORY CENTRES. 
Cb = Cerebellum ; B = Bulb. 

and motor, with which it has to work in correlation. 
Though mainly containing nervous elements concerned 
with vision, fibres radiate from it to the other sensory 
areas and to the motor areas, so that visual activity can 
be brought into correlation with other forms of sensory 
and motor activity. 

The motor areas still further exemplify the fact that the 
centres represent activities and not organs. Each area 
does not so much represent a muscle group as the move- 
ments the group can make. Hence the many skilled 
movements of the arm have much larger representation in 
the cerebral cortex than the less numerous movements of 
the leg, though the size of the former muscles is consider- 
ably less than that of the latter. Hence, too, each area 



140 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

for the control of any muscle- group is divisible into smaller 
areas corresponding with the different movements of that 
group flexion, extension, or whatever other movements are 
made. 

Each area is, then, a true centre for the correlating and 
coordinating of elements of activity into a whole. Although 
each cortical area contains chiefly the representations of 
some one element of sensory or motor activity, yet it- 
contains also representations of all others with which it 
can act in correlation. Fibres radiate from it to all the 
other sensory and motor centres. The various centres are 
thus brought into united action by means of the immense 
number of fibres that pass from centre to centre. The 
cerebrum, therefore, although a collection of centres, can 
act as a whole and this unity is reflected in the unity of 
mental life and of voluntary action. 

11. Briefly revising the main outline of this complex 

structure, the following points stand out as 
Summary. import&nt _ 

The cerebro- spinal system consists of a vast number of 
neurones placed side by side or in ascending series and so 
organised as to form a number of -centres where different 
stimuli can induce discharges in efferent neurones. 

The centres in the spinal cord are simple centres that 
bring the afferent and efferent neurones from the bodily 
organs directly into relation, but with the afferent neurones 
so distributed that the spinal centres can, to a large extent, 
act in concert with each other. 

The centres in the brain are more complex. By means 
of distribution centres and bands of nerve fibres they are 
brought indirectly, through the medium of the sub-centres 
in the cord, into connexion with all the organs of the 
body, so that correlations and coordinations of a more 
complex character can be established. Lastly, above all 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 141 

stands the supreme centre, the cerebrum, containing 
representations of all the sensory and motor bodily 
activities, acting on the regions of sense and movement 
not directly, but only through the complex centres in the 
mid brain and the simple centres in the spinal cord. 

There is thus a series of centres of ascending complexity 
beginning with the spinal centres and ending with the 
cerebrum, each higher one acting through those below. 
By this means correlations of incoming stimuli with out- 
going impulses of various degrees of complexity can be 
established and coordination of a simple or high order 
becomes possible. 



CHAPTER V. 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. 

1. Like every other organ in the body the nervous system 
is imperfect at birth. Its size and weight 
are but a Action of what they will be- 
Nerve Cells : come, and its functioning power is largely 
in Size. undeveloped. Though the nervous system 

increases rapidly both in size and in weight, this increase 
is not due to the addition of any new nerve elements, for 
after birth no new cells are formed. The increase is solely 
the result of the development of the nerve cells present 
when the child is born. 

Many of these cells, at birth, are in quite a rudimentary 
state. They are small in size, mere granules in fact, and 
possess neither dendrites nor fibres, and hence are incapable 
of performing any nervous function. Such cells are only 
the seed out of which, under proper conditions, will be 
developed to the full, by the growth of nerve fibres and 
dendritic processes, cells capable of performing their func- 
tions. The increase in size and weight, then, though 
in part due to the enlargement of the cell body, is in a 
large measure the result of the development of nerve pro- 
cesses and is, therefore, a sign of an advancing functional 
power. 

142 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 143 

Though increase in size and weight is some indication of 
developing power, it does not give the exact 
measure of it- For example, the brain attains 
its greatest weight at the early age of fifteen, 
yet it is not until long after that year that it acquires 
its full functioning power. Development in functioning 
power, indeed, continues rapidly up to the age of twenty- 
five, and less noticeably up to the age of forty ; after that 
age it is doubtful whether any further advance takes place. 
It is the growth of processes and the making of neurone 
connexions that bring an advance in the control over the 
activities of the organism. Where processes do not exist 
or are rudimentary in character, control is impossible. 
Where connexions are loose and embryonic, activities will 
be awkwardly and clumsily carried on. Only where the 
connexions have become definite, fixed, and intimate will 
activities proceed easily, quickly, and without hesitation. 
2. Necessarily, many of the centres at birth are almost 
perfectly organised, or even vegetative life 
The Develop- i n such a complex organism as the human 
C^ntres. 1 * child would be im P<>ssiMe. The child can 
breathe, suck, digest his food, and perform 
similar actions essential to his organic welfare. Such 
actions, however, involve more or less complex correlations 
and coordinations at the centres that control them. In- 
coming stimuli must evoke definite and 
Hereditary orderly series of outgoing impulses in order 
Organisation. to P ro( l uc e appropriate activity in muscle 
or gland. Certain neurone connexions of a 
definitely organised character must, then, be inherited by 
the child, and must be in full going order at birth. In 
other words, definite and fixed conduction paths for nervous 
discharge between sensory areas and muscles exist at 
birth, whereby the organism can respond by appropriate 



144 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

movement to certain particular external and internal 
conditions. 

On the other hand, many centres are, at birth, in a 
state of rudimentary organisation, and only 
Acquired gradually attain during the years of growth 

Organisation. ^ e ^ u ^ measure of their functional power. 
The various centres, however, do not all be- 
gin to develop their organisation immediately after birth. 
Some begin to acquire the power of controlling activities 
early in life; others lie dormant for years. Nor is the rate 
of development equal in all cases. Some centres only 
attain their full power slowly and gradually through easy 
stages; others develop rapidly a large measure of their 
capacity and in a short time change markedly the character 
of the child's conduct. 

Each centre, then, has its own appointed time for its 
development to begin. When this time arrives the cells 
of the centre begin to grow in size, to push out processes 
and to make connexions with other neurones. For some 
time development progresses rapidly, the line of growth 
being determined by hereditary tendencies and by the 
nature of the child's occupations and pursuits. The period 
of growth is not, however, indefinitely prolonged. In some 
cases it may extend over many years, in others only over a 
few months. Sooner or later, however, there comes a time 
when the power of spontaneous growth gradually declines 
and finally fades away. 

The development of functional power in the various 

centres has its counterpart in the mental life 

Correlative of the child. From infancy to manhood 

of 6 MentS ent there is seen the gradual awakening in suc- 

Life. cession of spontaneous instinctive impulses 

to engage in different kinds of activity. At 

one period the child is impelled by its nature to sensory, 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 145 

at another to practical, and later to intellectual activity. 
These signs of advancing mental life are the mental 
expression of the growing physical life of the centres for 
these activities. As each centre in turn awakens to 
growing life, and its cells begin to grow in size and to 
push out processes to make connexions, new lines of 
sensory, practical, and intellectual impulse show them- 
selves. For example, the appearance of the impulse of 
curiosity, which is so spontaneous and intense, and governs 
for so many years the life of the child, is but an indication 
that the centres of sight, hearing, taste, and touch are 
filled with growing life. Similarly, when the child is 
impelled to handle objects, to tear things to pieces, to 
endeavour to talk or to walk, the centres for these activi- 
ties are in active physical development. 

Since each centre has its own appointed time for 
beginning its development it will be useless 
Time for to attempt the education of any centre until 

Centres!* ^ ne nrs ^ g ig lls of awakening life show them- 

selves. An over- anxious mother may begin 
too early to teach her offspring to walk and to talk. When 
the child begins to show that he wants to learn to talk and 
to walk is the time to take measures to educate the centres 
of these activities to an effective and valuable control. No 
earlier efforts will be of any avail. Much time may be 
wasted and much harm done by premature attempts to 
induce children to learn to do things before their nervous 
organisation is ready. Only too frequently in school are 
children forced to try to exercise their fingers in delicate 
and intricate movements which the immature state of the 
centres for these actions will only permit them to perform 
in an awkward and clumsy manner. 

Just as training can be begun too early, so it can be de- 
layed until too late. The power of spontaneous development 

PHY. ED. 10 



146 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

has its spring and summer, but winter comes at last, 
when the power, if not dead, is at a low ebb. To delay 
training beyond the period of growth is fatal to the 
acquirement of skill. Training will have its greatest effect 
in producing an organisation for the skilful and effective 
control of valuable practical activities when the centres are 
developing rapidly and the cells are spontaneously pushing 
out processes and making connexions with the fibrils of 
other cells. 

During this time, too, there will appear the impulsive 
longing to engage in those activities the centres for which 
are in their period of rapid growth, and such instinctive 
desire should be seized and turned to good account. 
Education should follow the line of least resistance, and 
make use of the natural forces urging the child to active 
life. Yague longing should by experience and guidance 
become particularised into concrete interests. The general 
impulse to do something should develop into clear and 
definite purposes of value. Should this period of spon- 
taneous growth and activity pass without the centres being 
moulded by exercise to an organisation of value, then the 
power of spontaneous growth and impulsive desire will 
wane and die. Future efforts will then meet with no 
innate internal force to make learning a pleasure and to 
aid the acquirement of skill, and no permanent interests or 
fixed habits will have been formed. In the life of a youth, 
for example, the period from twelve to twenty-five years of 
age is a time when the centres for the control of such larger 
bodily movements as are employed in running, walking, 
and wrestling are rapidly developing. This growing life is 
exhibited in the impulse to engage in sports and games 
that dominates this period of life. Football, cricket, 
swimming, and other violent exercises are desired with 
intense avidity. If, however, this period pass with few or 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 147 

no opportunities for playing games, then the spontaneous 
longing for outdoor exercise will fade, and the grown man 
will be all the poorer in health, in interests, and in power. 
Speaking generally, the centres for the control of the 

larger and less complex movements of the 
Order of body and limbs develop first ; those for the 

of^otor 161 finer, more delicate, and intricate movements 
Centres. develop later. The child kicks his legs, flings 

his arms about, and wriggles his body before 
he acquires the power of grasping an object with his fingers 
and of guiding an instrument with precision. During 
adolescence, however, when the muscular and bony frame- 
work is rapidly growing, there is a tendency for the muscles 
to outgrow the power of control. It is a fact of common 
observation that a youth at this age is markedly awkward 
and clumsy in his general movements. The centres for 
general bodily movement are called on to adapt themselves 
to rapidly growing executive machinery, and naturally 
their action is far from perfect. What is needed, then, at 
this period of life, is some system of exercises by which 
these centres will be aided to attain a more perfect control. 
3. During the early development of a centre of motor 

control the movements that are spontaneously 
The Influence . . \ 

of the Play made are of an indefinite kind and are charac- 

and Imitative terised by no purposive objective. Such are 
thflDevelop- the kicking and flinging movements of the 
ment of the young child, which are evidently the result of 
Centres. ^e exc itation of centres in which connexions, 

though existing, are unorganised for the control of definite 
purposive actions. Such an organisation has to be acquired, 
and the process of learning must consist in the making of 
such connexions at the centres that definite and fixed con- 
duction paths are formed by which particular afferent 
stimuli will evoke definitely coordinated efferent impulses. 



148 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

The organisation for the control of definite purposive 
movement is of gradual growth. The development of its 
early stages is due to the prompting of the natural impulse 
that is one aspect of the growing life of the centre. The 
active, practical play instincts of the child are his first 
educators, and education can but follow in their footsteps 
and by guidance turn instincts into interests of value, and 
the machinery of movement into an instrument for skilled 
work. The first training, however, is by the constant and 
varied exercise that the child, boy, and youth ceaselessly 
indulges in during the period of growth. In the early 
years he gains his first training in motor organisation by 
flinging his arms about and kicking his legs ; later it is by 
crawling, balancing, walking, climbing, jumping, grasping 
at objects, pulling them to pieces and rolling them about ; 
later still it is by making things with his fingers or with 
tools and trying to imitate the doings of his elders ; then 
by running, catching, throwing and wrestling games. These 
spontaneous forms of activity are his natural modes of ac- 
quiring skill ; instinctive longing and desire his stimulus ; 
experience and imitation his guides. 

The ceaseless and varied exercise of every new power as 
it appears results in the indefinite and vague movements 
becoming definite purposive actions. The main forces at 
work developing the former movements into the latter are 
experience and imitation. The constant grasping, handling, 
throwing, rolling, pulling to pieces that go on with every 
object within reach of the young child lead to a body of 
experience being gained with respect to the objects so 
experimented on. Each object is acquiring a meaning, 
indeed many meanings ; the meanings being the stored-up 
experiences of grasping and handling and of the endeavours 
to get this or that control over the object. Out of the 
many actions performed, some are chosen for repetition, 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 149 

others for inhibition. The sugar is grasped and hurried to 
the mouth ; the hot tea-pot is carefully avoided. Definite 
modes of response by experience take the place of vague 
indiscriminate action. With growing knowledge of actions 
and of their consequences the child can foresee the results 
of his movements, and the control over his experimenting 
becomes more intelligent and deliberate and hence more 
effective. 

Imitation of others, too, is a great factor in the develop- 
ment from indeterminate to definite motor responses. The 
child spontaneously and unconsciously copies actions he 
sees just as he instinctively exercises his growing powers, 
and in this way his motor development proceeds more 
quickly and easily along the lines that tradition and 
custom mark out as being the most useful and valuable. 
4. The learning of all new forms of activity is marked 
by the need of attending to the details of 
correlation and coordination. The early trials 
are almost always random efforts made on 
the chance of their being successful, or crude attempts to 
imitate the actions of others. Naturally, awkwardness 
and clumsiness mar their success. Through- 
Action of out the action intelligence is watching in- 
an/wfu. 1106 tently each detail of movement and its 
results, and continually the will is exerted 
to intensify, inhibit, or otherwise modify this or that part 
of the action until some measure of success is attained. 
Progress is only made by repeated trials through failure 
to success. Each repetition removes some awkward or 
redundant movement, until there comes a time when the 
action proceeds smoothly, quickly, and confidently. 

What, however, is of greater importance in the develop- 
ment of motor control is that repetition gradually removes 
the necessity for attention being paid to the details of 



150 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

coordination and correlation. The intelligence, when skill 
is acquired, needs simply to conceive the end 

to be attained - The will tlien issues the com - 
mand to start the movement, and, except 
for the most general of guidance and control, the action 
proceeds in an automatic manner. It is evident that 
repetition combined with intelligent control has resulted in 
the formation and fixing of definite conduction paths of 
motor discharge. The intelligence and the will have in 
some way determined the lines of motor discharge and 
repetition has fixed them as a permanent nervous organi- 
sation. An organisation of neurone connexions has thus 
been formed in the various centres, by which certain 
afferent stimuli will evoke readily and quickly definite and 
harmoniously coordinated outgoing impulses without the 
interference of the will or the definite guidance of intelli- 
gence. Each passage of a wave of nervous excitation must 
leave behind it traces in a permanent modification of nerve 
substance and of closer and more intimate nerve con- 
nexions, by which the resistance to nervous conduction 
along that path is lessened for the future. When a similar 
excitation occurs again it finds prepared a more or less 
organised and fixed path of least resistance, and so the 
wave spreads through the system from sensory area to 
muscles or glands along definite lines marked out for it as 
the result of previous action. Continued repetition streng- 
thens such paths and leads to more automatic discharge 
of efferent impulses in response to afferent stimuli. 

The lapse of time, however, without any repetition of 
a particular form of excitation, weakens 
tlie conduction path for that form of excita- 
tion. Living tissue is constantly undergoing 
change, and the connexions between the neurones become, 
so to speak, looser and weaker as time passes without that 



THE EDUCATION OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 151 

conduction path being used. Want of practice deteriorates 
the nervous organisation acquired by practice. 

The bearing of all this on the learning of a new form of 
activity is obvious. Frequent practice, with 
short intervals of time between each occasion, 
is essential to the formation of an efficient 
nervous organisation for the performance of skilled move- 
ments. Long periods of time without practice only gives 
an opportunity for the organisation acquired during prac- 
tice to become weak and loose. Greater ease and quickness 
of movement and more advanced skill, for example, can be 
acquired by four lessons a week for a year than by one 
lesson a week for four years, though the total time spent 
in learning is the same in each case. On the former plan 
the skill acquired during one lesson has not time to de- 
teriorate to any extent before the next exercise strengthens 
and advances it. On the latter much time is wasted in 
renewing and reviving the skill lost in the long intervals 
between successive lessons. The pupils are, on this latter 
plan, kept continually in the lower stages of the art, and 
interest is consequently lost. They never attain that 
degree of skill which will lead them to find a high and 
lasting pleasure in the work they do and induce them to 
undertake work of difficulty and value. 

Intensive practice is, then, the only high road to the 
acquirement of skill of a high value, and it is the most 
economical of school time. Once, however, an organisation 
for the control of certain kinds of movement has been 
acquired and fixed, a diminishing amount of practice will 
maintain in its perfection the skill acquired. It is in the 
early stages that intensive practice is of the highest value. 
Later, the frequency of the lessons can be diminished. 
Hence, in teaching such practical activities as speaking 
a foreign tongue, reading, writing, drawing, handicraft, 



152 THE EDUCATION OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

needlework, and practical cookery, lessons during the first 
year of learning should be frequent, so that an initial foun- 
dation of skill may be laid. Practice should take place if 
possible every day, certainly not less than three times each 
week. After the first year the number of lessons may be 
reduced, and the reduction can go still further as skill 
advances year by year. It is, therefore, not a wise distri- 
bution of time for children to be learning many practical 
activities at once. It is more economical, and advance is, in 
the long run, more rapid, if one or two kinds be practised 
intensively each year of school life, so that in each form of 
activity some reasonably high degree of skill can be reached. 
After one year of intensive practice a much less amount 
of exercise will maintain the skill without deterioration. 
It is important, however, in learning a practical occupa- 
tion that wrong modes of performing the 
Precautions work be not indulged in. As has been seen, 

Tfastakes ^ ie ^ rst nerve P atn carved out by an ex- 

citation leaves its traces, so that the next 
occurrence of that form of stimulus finds a path pre- 
disposed for its conduction which only the lapse of time 
can obliterate. Voluntary effort and persistent repetition 
can, of course, form an alternative path of greater con- 
ductivity, but so long as both paths persist there will 
always be a liability to error. 

It is very desirable, then, to take every precaution to 
avoid wrong modes of doing tilings from the first moment 
of learning. It is in the early exercises that bad habits 
may become fixed and require endless trouble to eradicate. 
Moreover, bad methods of work only too frequently taint 
the whole future practice and prevent progress to a high 
degree of skill. In the early training, then, the proper 
attitudes and movements should be carefully shown and 
practised one by one under efficient supervision. 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 153 

The careful teaching and practice of the details of a move- 
ment have another object besides the one discussed above. 
Advance from simple to complex forms of activity is made 
only by the elementary forms becoming automatic. The ele- 
mentary movements out of which a complex act of skill is 
constructed should then be taught and practised first. If the 
complex action be attempted without such preparatory prac- 
tice it is only too likely that imperfect and wrong forms of 
movement will creep into the action, and much time and 
trouble will be needed before they are finally got rid of. 

In learning an activity of any complexity the pupils 
should have preparatory teaching and prac- 
Preparatory tice in its elements. In the teaching of 
the^Elements rea( ii n g f r instance, examples of distinct 
of Action. enunciation and correct pronunciation should 

be carefully put before the pupils. The 
points of special difficulty should be emphasised, and if 
necessary the action of the vocal organs demonstrated. Col- 
lective and individual practice should then follow during 
which the teacher should be on the alert for wrong sounds 
and indistinct utterance. Careful demonstration, followed 
by frequent practice of good modes of speech and constant 
correction of wrong modes at all times, will, in the long 
run, result in distinct and correct speaking becoming 
habitual. Similarly in writing, drawing, painting, handi- 
craft, walking, running, and jumping, the correct attitude in 
sitting, standing, or moving, and the best methods of using 
the different tools should be demonstrated and practised. 

In view of the importance of careful demonstration and 
intensive practice, it is wise before each lesson to devote 
some ten minutes or so to some form of drill by which the 
execution of some one particular movement can be perfected. 
The action chosen for practice should, of course, be one 
that would receive constant application in the lesson to 



154 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

follow. In such, drill it may be in the writing of an ' s,' 
the drawing of an ellipse or spiral, the enunciation, of a 
final 'ng,' the correct mode of controlling the breath in 
singing and running, the lunges, parries, and attitudes of 
fencing the movement should be carefully examined by 
the pupils and intensively practised by them until some 
degree of proficiency is attained. 

Such drill, organised in character, advancing in difficulty, 
and carried out methodically and thoroughly through the 
years of school life with respect to each form of practical 
activity, will create so effective and permanent an organisa- 
tion for the control of those kinds of movements that their 
performance will become almost instinctive, and advance to 
higher forms of skill and to more permanent and valuable 
interests will be possible. Such thorough and methodical 
drill is recognised as an essential preliminary in the train- 
ing for an artistic career in music, painting, or sculpture. 
It is only after years of practice at scales and exercises 
that the aspirant to success obtains sufficient control over 
his fingers to be able to devote his whole mind to the 
emotional effects he wishes to arouse. Although so great 
a skill is not possible in the practical activities of school 
life, yet the same principles of prevention of mistakes, 
and of continued and repeated practice in the elements 
of skill should underlie the teaching of these, if anything 
but merely rudimentary and childish forms of skill are 
to be attained by the pupils. 

By the practice of certain forms of activity the nervous 
system becomes adapted to the easy, quick, 
conn< lent, and automatic control of move- 
Complex ments. Intelligence is thus left free to bring 
Forms of about correlations and coordinations of a 
broader and more complex character, which 
are only possible when those of a lower order have, through 



THE EDUCATION OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 155 

repetition, been made automatic. Consciousness is not 
concerned with the mechanism of movement, but only with 
the necessity for it and with the result attained by it. As 
long as the nervous and muscular machinery works smoothly 
and successfully, intelligence and will are directed to the 
wider and more important aspect of the progressive 
realisation of purpose. Progress from simple to complex 
forms of activity, therefore, is made on a continually 
broadening basis of automatism or habit. Practice of 
simple elementary movements is the necessary preparation 
for the intelligent synthesis of those movements into com- 
plex actions, which in turn become automatic by repetition 
and give a basis for further construction. 

The essence of skilled practical activity, however, is the 
constant intelligent adaptation of movement to continually 
changing conditions. In actions like walking, swimming, 
and cycling, and, to some extent, knitting and sewing, 
where the conditions remain fairly constant, this is not so. 
These, however, are only activities of a low order of skill. 
In these cases there is only the monotonous repetition of 
one kind of movement, and a nervous organisation can 
soon be formed that can, within certain limits, act apart 
from intelligence and will. In such pursuits as carving, 
fencing, or playing games, constant attention is required 
on the material or on one's opponents to observe the pro- 
gressive change of the conditions. No fencer, sculptor, or 
painter, no matter how skilled in his art, can for one 
moment relax his attention. The fencer, for example, is 
continually on the alert, watching every movement of his 
opponent's eye and foil, keenly 011 the look out for any 
spot not thoroughly guarded, and thinking out some feint 
by which he can disclose his opponent's mode of attack or 
the weakness of his defence. 

The whole action, though highly adaptive and requiring 



156 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

keen attention and acute intelligence, is constructed on a 
basis of automatic movements. The strokes of an artist's 
pencil, the feints, guards, and lunges of a fencer are per- 
fectly mechanical in character. The lunge of an opponent 
calls out without deliberate thought the appropriate parry 
and riposte. The idea of a curve is followed without 
mental effort by the movements of the hand and arm in 
making it. The perception or idea has acted as a kind of 
trigger to let loose the mechanism of movement, which then 
goes on smoothly and easily with only the most general 
mental control. 

Such a basis of automatic action is absolutely essential 
in all advanced forms of skill. It is only when the artist 
has by practice perfected his hand to the drawing of 
many kinds of forms that his mind is free to combine 
these in the production of a work of art. In all practical 
arts attention must be on the end and not on the process 
of attaining it. Only when such a stage is reached can 
results of really artistic merit be produced, and such a 
stage is only arrived at by thorough and systematic 
practice in the elements of skill. 

The intelligence and the will, however, have their physi- 
cal aspect in the activity of the centres of the cerebrum, 
and are, therefore, subject to the law of habit. The direc- 
tion of conduct by the will follows certain general lines 
which repeated practice has fixed as permanent tendencies. 
At first the will is exercised in each piece of conduct in 
securing honesty of purpose, persevering and persistent 
effort, critical care and caution, and neatness and precision 
of execution. Continual efforts to secure these qualities in 
conduct, however, leave their traces 011 the nervous system, 
especially on the higher centres which direct conduct as a 
whole. Such qualities then become habitually operative in 
directing all conduct. Thus, conduct in its general direction 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 157 

by the will, as well as in the elements from which it is 
constructed, is under the influence of habit. The executive 
habits may be regarded as the servants of mind, the 
machinery by which it works out its ends ; but the mind 
itself is not entirely free, for in all its operations it is guided 
by habitual tendencies of a general character suited to 
dealing with situations varying considerably in detail but 
similar in general characteristics. 

5. In practical activity, it has been seen, a series of 

movements is guided to its end by a series of 

The Perceptual perceptions. Prominent among the percep- 

Element in tions usually relied on in skilled occupations 

Practical . . 

Activity. are those ol vision and touch. Hearing, or 

course, is an important sense in such actions 
as reciting, singing, and playing a musical instrument. 
Less obvious, but of at least equal importance in guiding 
movement, are muscular impressions produced by the 
movements themselves. The muscles are 
Impressions no ^ on ^ execu ^i ve instruments for carrying 
out movements, but also sensory areas. 
Afferent nerves pass from all the muscles to the central 
nervous system, and convey sensory stimuli by which the 
intensity and nature of each movement can be 'sensed.' 
Each movement is thus followed by a series of return 
stimuli by which we become aware of the nature of the 
movement made. 

Much of our experience of objects their size and weight, 
the resistance they offer to force, and the pressure they 
exert is thus gained in terms of movement. Such experi- 
ence constitutes a most valuable part of our knowledge of 
objects from a practical point of view, because it is know- 
ledge which is indispensable when action with these objects 
is contemplated. For example, it is little use for a 
bowler to possess the information that he has to pitch a 



158 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

cricket-ball twenty yards and break it to the right or left, or 
simply to watch another man perform the feat. He must 
not merely have some knowledge about bowling, but must 
know what bowling means in terms of muscular energy 
and muscular movement ; and this he can only experience 
by bowling many balls, and so through many trials and by 
continual effort attaining success. Again, in drawing it is 
more important from a practical point of view to judge 
a curvature in terms of the sweep of the arm or turn of 
the hand and wrist in producing it than to interpret it 
solely by the eye. Motor experience is, then, indispensable 
to successful action. It is that experience which is most 
intimately and closely associated with the movement itself, 
for it is the direct outcome of that movement, and becomes 
essential to its proper guidance. 

Visual experience is necessarily of great importance too, 

and this to some extent can be acquired at 
Impressions second hand. Watching an artist draw, and 

a bowler bowl, or even reading or hearing a 
description of how they do their work, provides some data 
with respect not only to the end to be attained, but also to 
the process of attaining it. It is on experience of this kind 
that imitation has to rely. Example and precept are im- 
portant educators and appeal to sight and understanding. 
By these means the nature of the work to be done, the 
mode of doing it, and the mistakes to be avoided can best 
be demonstrated. They cannot, however, be the only means 
employed in teaching practical activities. Personal experi- 
ence of a practical motor kind is essential when practical 
skill is the aim of teaching. Not only is the motor 
experience which is indispensable to the successful guidance 
of movement gained in that way, but the impressions of 
sight and touch are more thoroughly and intimately corre- 
lated with those of movement and with the movements 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 159 

themselves than can be the case when precept and example 
only are relied on. 

In a superficial analysis of our experience muscular 

impressions are apt to be overlooked. They 
Tendency of do not stand out so prominently as our im- 
reT^on 1 Visual P ress i ns f s ig nt > sound, or touch, and hence 
Impressions. there is a tendency to ignore them unless we 

begin with set purpose to seek for them. In 
drawing an ellipse on a blackboard our eyes are so intent 
on the shape being produced that the impressions of touch 
and of muscular exertion in holding the chalk, in over- 
coming the resistance of the surface, and in moving the 
arm fall into an undiscriminated background of conscious- 
ness. By closing our eyes and then endeavouring to draw 
the ellipse our attention is forced on to the impressions 
previously overlooked, and we are driven to guide our 
movements solely by the senses of touch and movement. 
Even impressions of touch can be eliminated by making 
the movements of drawing the ellipse in the air instead of 
on the surface of the board. We then become distinctly 
aware of muscular impressions that indicate, without doubt, 
the kind of figure which is being made. 

So prominent usually is our visual experience and so 
clearly has it been analysed, so definitely organised, and so 
precisely expressed in language, that we can best describe 
objects and actions in terms of visual elements. On the 
other hand, our muscular impressions are so obscure and so 
little differentiated that there are few terms descriptive of 
purely motor experience. Hence teaching has too great a 
tendency to rely on the eye and on verbal description of 
visual impressions. This, at any rate so far as teaching 
practical activities is concerned, is a mistake, since in pur- 
suits of that nature both visual and motor experiences are 
required to guide actions to a successful issue. 



160 THE EDUCATION OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

It is clear, then, that in teaching practical activities, 
although much can be done by demonstration and by 
instruction to give a good understanding of the nature of 
the task and how to set about accomplishing it, yet it is 
also true that a thorough knowledge of practical problems 
can only be attained through practical experience. The 
knowledge of the form of objects which is really valuable 
for practical purposes is most thoroughly acquired by 
drawing, painting, modelling, and carving similar forms. 
Precept and example will show what should be done and 
what is to be avoided, but there must be ample opportunity 
for practical work. Practice alone can give that element 
of practical experience and that basis of automatism that 
are essential to skilled action on things. 

6. Practical activity, it is seen, has both its perceptual and 

its motor aspects, and these in skilled action 

Perceptual are j n most intimate and thorough correla- 

Traming r ^ on - Indeed, as has just been shown, they 

combined in are to some extent interdependent on each 

other> Xt is obvious > tnen > tliat tnese two 
aspects should not be separated in teaching, 

but should be brought into closest relationship. Both 
aspects are essential to skilled action on the objects of 
one's environment, and both should be trained by means 
of practical action on such objects. The perceptual ex- 
perience that is to be of value in practical activity is that 
which results from practical conduct and bears on practical 
conduct, and the movements to be trained must be corre- 
lated with such perceptual experience. 

Hence, as Professor Royce says, " If you are to train 
the powers of perception, you must train the conduct of 
the person who is to learn how to perceive," l and the 

1 Outlines of Psychology, p. 226. 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 161 

evident corollary is that if you wish to train the power of 
acting skilfully with things you must train it in connexion 
with the perception of those things. Perception isolated 
from action leads to theoretic knowledge that has no appro- 
priate motor responses correlated with it, and will result in 
a youth who may have encyclopaedic information about the 
things around him, but in the practical affairs of life is an 
awkward and inefficient bungler. In a word, he does not 
know the things ; he only knows about them, and that is a 
very different matter. Similarly, to train movement apart 
from the endeavour to gain knowledge of objects and to 
turn them to some purpose of value will secure a motor 
machinery that has little or no bearing 011 the needs of 
life. 

A system of physical exercises, such as free exercises, 
exercises with dumb-bells and wands, cannot, then, give a 
complete training in practical activity. Systems such as 
these seek by means of a complicated and systematic 
series of movements of arms, body, and legs to exercise 
every muscle in the body so that the motor centres can 
acquire the organisation for quick, easy, and orderly move- 
ment. Coordinated movements of the various muscles and 
muscle groups, it is true, can be acquired by such exer- 
cises. But it is an organisation that is isolated and 
disconnected from a knowledge of things and of practical 
purposes with reference to them. It is a nervous mechan- 
ism for the control of movement that has been trained in 
vacuo. A fencer practises lunging and parrying, but 
mere drill of this kind will not make him a fencer. 
Such mechanical exercises can only train the coordinat- 
ing machinery of movement. It can teach him to make 
these movements, but not when to do the one and when 
the other. This latter can only be learnt by the actual 
engaging with an opponent whose actions have to be 
PHY. ED. 11 



162 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

watched and whose skill and intelligence can be defeated 
only by constructing some plan of attack or defence 
suited to the circumstances. The intelligent use of the 
mechanism of movement can be thoroughly trained only 
when it is exercised in gaining control over material, or 
objects, or opponents, whose continually changing state 
necessitates close perceptual attention, and when construc- 
tive imagination is required in the progressive attainment 
of the end. 

7. It is evident, then, that the practical activities of 

school life should be pursuits and occupations 
The Nature of i n which intelligence and skill are required 
the Practical in the manipulation of some material, or in 
o^School ^ e con ^ es ^ with some antagonist. Nature 

herself indicates the lines education should 

follow. 
As has been seen, there is a special period of growth for 

each centre, during which training will have 

Dual Aspect its best effect. The development of each 

of Practical , . -, n , ., . .. 

Pursuits. centre is marked by the instinctive impulse 

to exercise it. The child, boy, and youth 
is unceasingly and spontaneously active in handling 
objects, pulling them to pieces, constructing things, imita- 
ting the occupations of his elders, making crude repre- 
sentation of the forms of objects with paint or pencil, 
running, jumping, climbing, struggling with his com- 
panions, or joining with them in social games. Every 
object seems to impel him to exercise his activities upon 
it. Yet it is important to note that in such spontaneous 
pursuits it is not only his motor centres and muscles that 
are being developed. His intellectual, emotional, and 
social nature is expanding by means of these pursuits. 
He advances in knowledge of objects, and interests are 
aroused to give definite concrete form to his future efforts. 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 163 

Shapes, colours, and sounds stir his admiration and lead 
him to express in some physical form his thoughts and 
emotions with respect to them. In the contests and 
games with his companions personal and social feelings 
are being awakened and exercised. 

The spontaneous activities of childhood have, then, a 
dual aspect. On the one hand there is the mental side of 
interest, curiosity, admiration, self-assertion, and sympathy, 
out of which will develop the child's intellectual, aesthetic, 
moral, and social nature ; on the other is the aspect of 
physical action by which he is impelled to realise the 
cravings of his nature and to express them in some physical 
form. These two sides of spontaneous activity must not, in 
training, be separated, if life through childhood and youth 
to manhood is to be an organic unity. The practical activi- 
ties of school must be in close and intimate relation with 
the expanding intellectual, aesthetic, moral, and social life 
of the child, and must aid him in realising and in expressing 
that life to the full. 

Since the centres for the larger movements of the body 

and limbs develop before those for the finer 
Aspect of 1 anc ^ more delicate movements it is evident 
Practical that the practical pursuits of early childhood 

snoul(i be mainly those that call for the 

former kind of action. Before the age of 
seven children should not be allowed to engage in any 
work of a fine and delicate character. Children so young 

can only perform such movements slowly 
Practical an d awkwardly, and the time spent is out 

young* 16 of a ^ proportion to the advance made. More 

Children. rapid advance in skill of this kind will be 

made when the children are older. Hence, 
writing, figuring, drawing on paper, and fine sewing 
should not be much in evidence in the infant school. The 



164 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

young children should be taught to write and to draw on 
upright blackboards, with large free movements of the 
arm from the shoulder, and should continue on these lines 
for some considerable time until they have made some 
progress in the use of fingers and wrist. Larger move- 
ments of the body and limbs should be trained by action 
songs and recitations in which imitative and emotional 
gestures are used, by simple dances, by imitative and other 
games, and by simple modelling in sand and clay. 

When the child leaves the infant school fine and delicate 
work with the hand should begin to take an 

Practical increasingly prominent place in the practical 

Activities of -A i, i,n ,f 

older Pupils. exercises, though at no time should the larger 

movements of the arm and body and legs be 
neglected. Writing, figuring, and drawing on paper with 
pen and pencil should be begun and should be practised 
intensively, so that skill in these branches can be rapidly 
acquired. After this, drawing with coloured chalks 
should give place to drawing with the brush. Clay model- 
ling should advance to finer forms of work, and cardboard 
modelling may begin as a preliminary to the more difficult 
wood-carving and handicrafts which should come later. 
Free-arm drawing should not be discontinued, but should 
be carried on side by side with pencil drawing and 
painting. 1 

Larger movements of the body should be trained by 
games and contests. For the younger pupils there should 
be running, jumping, catching, and ball games. For the 
elder fencing, wrestling, fives, hockey, cricket, and football. 

Grace and ease of movement should also receive atten- 
tion. Too many of the pupils of our schools are allowed 
to form bad habits of walking, sitting, and standing. The 

1 See Welton, Principles and Methods of Teaching, Chap. XIV., 8. 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 165 

action songs and simple dances of the kindergarten begin 
the training which should be continued in the upper school 
by gesture in recitation, by dramatic acting, and by slow 
and graceful movements performed to music. Quoit 
throwing and fencing, too, will do much to train ease and 
grace, if attention be paid to the attitudes and movements 
of the pupils in these exercises. 

Each year, as has been seen, there should be one or two 
branches of practical activity intensively 
studied so that a considerable degree of skill 



each branch may be acquired in a short time. The early 

of Practical p er i o d o f practice is the time for intensive 
Activity. * 

study, so that each year should see begun 

some new form of practical work which should be made 
the prominent feature of that year's training. No valu- 
able form of activity, however, should be dropped. Some 
of the exercises, such as cardboard modelling, are entirely 
of a preparatory character and so will give place to others, 
but those that can advance to higher and more difficult 
forms of skill should be continued. 

It is essential that the skill trained should not be of any 

narrow or limited character, but broad and 
Wide range various, and capable of advancing to higher 
Practical an( ^ more complex forms. The hand should 

Activities. be given control over chalk, pencil, pen, and 

brush ; over clay, hard and soft woods, and 
metals ; in working with instruments or with the fingers 
alone. Football, cricket, hockey, fives, swimming, fencing, 
wrestling, dancing will give great diversity of leg, arm, and 
body control. Moreover, all these occupations, games, and 
contests give ample scope for continuous development to 
more difficult forms of skill and for the exercise of 
intelligence. In none of them is there any monotonous 
repetition of a simple movement easily learnt as there 



166 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOTTS SYSTEM. 

is in such exercises as paper cutting and folding and free 
arm drill. 

Careful instruction in the elements of movements and 

frequent practice of these elements to acquire 
Drill prepara- automatic and perfect action have been seen 
cal^ursiSs * ^ ^ e essential to advance in skill. Hence, 

drill in the elements of movement is a 
necessary part of the instruction in practical activity. 
Such exercises, however, if they are to be of real value 
in practical pursuits, should bear as closely as possible on 
and lead up to the movements required in real occupations, 
games, and contests. There should be breathing, walking, 
running, jumping, fencing, and wrestling drill to give 
instruction in the elements of attitude and movement used 
in the games and contests and to perfect them by repeated 
practice. These formal exercises should be thorough and 
methodical, and should advance in difficulty and complexity, 
but, as has been emphasised already, should only be re- 
garded as preparatory to real practical activities to follow. 
Breathing exercises, for example, should at -first be taught 
and practised by themselves, but afterwards should be 
combined with exercises in running and jumping, and with 
recitation and singing. Similarly, walking, running, jump- 
ing, balancing, bending, and lunging will at first be 
practised independently, but the function of these exercises 
is to train a skill which can be used and should be practised 
in the real activities of games and contests. It is in this 
latter form of activity that the training in skill is fully 
and completely perfected. Formal exercises only train 
the elements which afterwards should be combined into 
practical activities carried on under the guidance of the 
intelligence. 

The development of the mental side of practical activity, 
moreover, is as important as is the development of the 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 167 

motor element. The skill which is being gradually acquired 
should be used as a means of furthering 
intellectual, aesthetic, and social ends, and 

Practical of making the most and the best of the in- 

SO 1 *^* , f tellectual curiosity, the admiration for shape, 
the ocnool. ^ A 

colour, and sound, and the personal and 

social elements that are actively showing themselves. 

In handicrafts and practical measurements a knowledge 

of exact form and of materials should be aimed 

Practical at as well as practical skill. In drawing and 

Pursuits as painting, the forms and colours of flowers, 

a means to 

Knowledge. leaves, stems, and roots, of butterflies and 

moths, of the feathers, claws, and beaks of 
birds, and of shells and pebbles should be examined, 
and the knowledge gained will be all the more exact and 
thorough because of the care induced by the drawing and 
painting. 

Plants and animals, however, appeal not only to intellec- 
tual curiosity, but also to the innate sense of 
Practical the beautiful. Painting and drawing, there- 

i^A^rt S fore, besides being the instruments of know- 

ledge should be a means of encouraging the 
appreciation of the beautiful in form and colour. Of these 
qualities, Professor Welton says, "a child has an apprecia- 
tion, but his appreciation is crude. He loves gaudy colours 
and strong contrasts, and his feeling for grace of form is 
even more embryonic than that for beauty of colour. But 
he delights in a beautiful flower, or butterfly, or bird, and, 
indeed, his expression of delight when he names such 
things 'pretty' is generally well deserved. He does not 
know why they please him: he only feels the gratification. 
But there is a germ from which an educated taste may 
spring. In a few souls it springs spontaneously and irre- 
sistibly ; they are the great artists of the world. In the 



168 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

majority of souls it requires careful training, or it will 
develop but little, if at all especially in a life passed 
amidst the generally grimy and ugly features of too many 
modern towns. It is not meant that the school should 
attempt to turn all its pupils into artists, but simply that 
it should aim at leading each to a higher level of taste, and 
thus should give an added value and interest to life." 1 

The training of a taste for beautiful forms and colours 
should thus be an aspect of the practical activities of the 
school, and the expression of beauty in thought and emotion 
should, in no less a measure, be a part of their aim. In a 
simple way, the action songs and recitations and the dances 
of the infant school lead the child to realise more fully the 
meaning of the words and to enter more whole-heartedly 
into the emotions. In a more refined and restrained way, 
by means of the modulation of the voice and by appropriate 
gestures, should the older pupils give expression to thought 
and feeling and so gain a fuller appreciation of the noble 
literature of our country. In reading dramatic literature 
the pupils should at times act a scene with appropriate 
gestures and movements. 

It is, however, in the contests and games that the social 

and moral nature of the pupils is most 

PursuiSfand com pletely and fully stimulated. Contests 

Moral and and games demand hardihood, courage, and 

Social patience. The power to take a beating with 

Development. ., . 

a smile and to win without a display of 

triumph is soon acquired when a healthy spirit of sports- 
manship prevails. 

Above all, games and contests are essentially at once 

competitive and co-operative. In manual occupations skill 

is exercised in gaining control over inanimate soulless matter, 

but in games and contests there is the strife of opposing 

1 Principles of Teaching, p, 488. 



THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 169 

skills and intelligences and the blending of many minds 
into a united company. From this co-operation and com- 
petition of human elements valuable experience of human 
nature is acquired. Just as by manual occupations the 
pupils acquire a thoroughly practical experience of the 
material they are working on, so by games and contests 
do they gain an intensely practical knowledge of the many 
aspects and modes of human nature, and thus learn tact 
and judgment in dealing with their fellows. In no other 
way than in earnest and keen, yet friendly, competition and 
co-operation in games and contests that arouse feelings and 
demand an exercise of intelligence and skill can there be 
obtained so practical, so thorough, and so intimate a know- 
ledge of human nature in many aspects a knowledge that 
will stand the pupils in good stead in the keener com- 
petition and more strenuous co-operation of real life in the 
future. 

It is good that contests and games should arouse feelings 
of all kinds, some good and some of a baser kind. Control 
over feelings is necessary for social well-being, and control 
can only be trained if there are opportunities for the 
display of feeling with encouragement and inducement to 
restrain the display. When there is a good, healthy, sports- 
manlike tone among the boys, and when the contests and 
games are under the more or less general supervision of a 
tactful yet firm instructor, displays of conceit and temper 
will meet with universal ridicule and contempt, and offen- 
ders will quickly learn that hearty good- will and friendli- 
ness are the most potent paths to social welfare. 

It may, indeed, be truly said that the games of a school 
give an apprenticeship to real life such as no other school 
pursuit can give. In no other study or occupation is a 
pupil at such close grip with opposing human nature, and 
in no other occupation is there so great a demand for 



170 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

self-control, self-denial, patience, firmness, good temper, and 
hearty good-will. The class-room studies and the manual 
occupations are largely individualistic in their tendencies. 
They train each pupil to make the most of himself by 
himself and for himself. The essential factor of many 
games is that each member of a side must work in friendly 
rivalry with others under a properly constituted authority 
and for the common weal. 

G-ames and contests, then, should form part of every boy 
and girl's education. We have seen that they are essential 
to a comprehensive training in practical skill. It will be 
shown in a later chapter that they are a means to vigorous 
health and growth. It is, however, on the moral and social 
ground that we would now urge their inclusion in the 
school curriculum. They are, above all other pursuits, the 
most suitable means for training many of the elements of 
a strong, self -reliant, yet self -controlled manhood. In the 
contest of mind with mind, skill against skill as well as 
strength against strength, are developed those human quali- 
ties that are essential in the battle of life. Surely, then, 
games and contests should form an important element in 
the life of every kind of school, not only because of the 
physical and practical benefits that accrue therefrom, but, 
what is of greater importance to our national character, on 
account of the moral and social training given by them. 

8. The practical activities of the infant and the lower 
school will be of so elementary a kind that 

Organisation the class teacher will be well able to give 
of Instructors . . . . nl /. ,-1 1 ,-, ,-\ 

of Practical instruction in all of them, and thus the 

Activities. singleness of life which is so characteristic 
of the young can be maintained. Those of 
the upper school, however, should be so advanced and so 
technical as to require for each group of allied activities 
a teacher who has a keen interest in one special branch 



THE EDUCATION OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 171 

and has made a special study of it and of the modes of 
teaching it. The instruction in practical measurements 
and plan-making should be given by the teacher of mathe- 
matics. Voice- training, elocution, and music should be 
taken by the teacher of English literature. Drawing and 
painting from objects will be partly taught by the teacher 
of natural history, but, especially on its artistic side, will 
be taken in conjunction with carving, modelling, and 
handicraft by the instructor in art. Each main group of 
subjects should, in the upper school, have its special 
teacher, and in some cases its special room. In a large 
school there should be an art room specially equipped with 
blackboards, easles, drawing desks, and other apparatus 
needed for thorough instruction in drawing and painting. 
Handicraft and carving must of necessity have their own 
workshop furnished with benches and supplied with the 
necessary tools. 

Where all the subjects of the school curriculum are 
taught by the class teacher, unity of discipline and to some 
extent of teaching method are secured, at least during 
each successive year while one teacher stays with a class. 
Usually, however, the end of each school year finds the 
old discipline, methods, and interests torn up by the roots, 
and a new discipline, new methods, and new interests 
planted in their place. The harmonious and regular 
development of the child is thus subjected to an annual 
disturbance, and his mode of thought and line of interest 
in several subjects may suffer a very considerable up- 
heaval. 

When a specialist teacher gives instruction in one 
branch of activities throughout the school, there is to set 
against the unity of discipline and of method in each 
successive year a keener interest, a more extensive and 
deeper knowledge, and a higher degree of practical skill 



172 THE EDUCATION OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

on the part of the teacher, which should bear fruit in a 
greater freshness, vivacity, and life in the teaching. But 
above all, since each branch of studies will be taught at all 
its stages by the same instructor, there will be no break of 
methods, of interests, and of thought at the end of each 
year. Instead, there will be secured in each group of 
subjects a consistency of method, a continuity of interest, 
and a methodical and regular advance on definite lines 
throughout the whole course, which are of greater educa- 
tional value than a somewhat hypothetical correlation of 
the different branches of study in each successive year. 

In a small school, where there are only one or two 
teachers, specialisation in the teaching on these lines is 
difficult, but even where there are only two teachers a 
grouping of subjects according to the aptitudes of the 
teachers is better than a permanent division of the school 
into two parts, each of which suffers from the special 
weaknesses of its own teacher and does not benefit by the 
special proficiency of the other. In large schools, where a 
large staff is engaged, each teacher should be appointed on 
account of his knowledge of and aptitude for some one 
branch of activity. In this way only will the most and 
the best be made of the few years of school life and a wide 
knowledge, generous and fruitful interests, and a high 
degree of physical skill be attained by the pupils. 

Where such specialisation of teaching is carried out the 
pupils should be divided into ' houses ' for social pursuits 
and each house placed under the charge of a member of 
the staff. Each house should contain pupils of all ages, 
so that the older boys may feel some responsibility for 
the younger, and the younger learn the lesson of social 
obedience by being under the authority of one of their own 
order. The teacher in charge should interest himself in 
each boy, talk to each boy of his school life and the 



THE EDUCATION OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 173 

employment of his leisure time, and give encouragement and 
stimulus by kindly advice. He should organise the social 
life of the boys of Ms house by promoting societies for 
leisure hour pursuits, and should supervise and encourage 
their sports and games. 

Though each member of the staff should interest himself 
in the sports and games of the boys of his house and 
exercise general supervision over them, yet in a large 
school there is need for a special teacher to give instruc- 
tion in games. The games instructor should be keenly 
interested in games and contests suitable for pupils of all 
ages and should have a wide knowledge of them. He 
should organise simple games suited to the strength and 
skill of the young pupils, and he should give instruction in 
batting, bowling, fielding, football, hockey, and fives to the 
older boys. 

In the gymnasium or school yard he should give instruc- 
tion and frequent practice in the elements of action, in 
breathing, walking, running, jumping, climbing, fencing, 
and wrestling. While allowing the pupils to organise and 
manage their sports and games as much as possible for 
themselves, he should frequently be present as general 
adviser and mentor. He, 110 less than the master of each 
house, should endeavour to introduce into the sports, 
games, and contests, no spirit of mechanical routine or 
forced drudgery, but one of keen sportsmanship, healthy 
rivalry, and an enthusiasm for higher proficiency. He 
should, while making use of the natural sporting and 
play instincts, see that the games and contests are not 
merely recreative play, but a serious training of skill, of 
practical intelligence, and of character. 



CHAPTER VI. 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

1. THE first aim of physical education, it has been stated, 
is the development of a sound and vigorous 

Health and constitution. Health is the first necessity, 

tne Organic 

Functions. for on it depends not only the vigour of our 

physical labour, but also the strenuousness 
of our moral and intellectual life. It must, therefore, be 
a consideration of the first importance to discover those 
conditions that will promote a healthy life and, for the 
young, a vigorous and harmonious growth. 

The mental and physical vigour of the organism has 
been shown to be dependent on the harmonious activity of 
all the organs of the body. Each organ has its own special 
work. Some aid in siipplying the tissues with the nutri- 
ment and oxygen from which living substance is con- 
structed and the energy for life and work is obtained ; 
others help in the removal of the waste products which 
result from the vital processes and functional activity of 
the bodily organs. Each organ is dependent on all the 
others for its life and functional power. The faulty action 
of any one organ is reflected in the disordered life and 
action of all. Hence, in considering the conditions for 
healthy life and growth, it is necessary to know, at least 

174 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 175 

in broad outline, the action of each part of the bodily 
machine, how the parts work in relation to each other and 
how the activity of each and all is adapted to external con- 
ditions and to internal needs. The anatomical structure 
of the body as a whole, and of each separate organ, does not 
greatly concern us. In considering~conditions for health it 
is the work of each organ, not its appearance or structure, 
that is important. It is assumed, however, that the reader 
knows the position in the body of such organs as the heart, 
lungs, liver, and kidneys. 

2. Every organ feeds on the blood. Each draws from it 
the substances necessary for building up its 
own peculiar form of living tissue, and hands 
back the waste products of tissue decomposition. The 
blood is thus the common source of life and energy for 
all the tissues, and the common sewer for draining away 
their impurities. Yet, though each organ feeds on the 
blood, each contributes something to the power of the blood 
to support life and assist growth. The digestive system 
gives it nutrition, the lungs oxygen, the heart circulates it 
through the body, and the kidneys, lungs, and skin 
cleanse it of its impurities. Just as the central nervous 
system unites the senses and muscles into harmonious 
action with respect to the external world, so in some 
measure does the blood bind the tissues into a common 
organic life. For by means of the common channel of the 
blood every organ lives and functions by the activity of all 
the others. The work of each of the organs, then, centres 
in its action on the blood. Hence it is desirable to begin 
the discussion of the organic functions by considering the 
nature of the blood, and throughout that examination to 
keep in mind that the blood is one medium through which 
the activity of any organ can influence the life and growth 
of the body in general. 



176 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

The blood consists of an almost colourless liquid, the 
plasma, in which float a large number of 
Plasma, 00 ** small bodies, called the red and white cor- 
puscles. The plasma contains the nutriment 
of the blood the albumen, sugars, and fats from which 
the cells build their living tissue and replenish their energy. 
It also contains waste products that have been poured into 
the blood, the principal of which are kreatin, urea, and 
lactic acid. 

The red corpuscles give the blood its red colour. They 
are extremely small, biconcave discs, composed 
Cor uscles ^ a grou^work f protoplasm which con- 
tains a red-coloured substance called haemo- 
globin. The red corpuscles are the oxygen-carriers for the 
tissues, taking oxygen from the air in the lungs and giving 
it up to the tissues. They have this function on account 
of the peculiar action of haemoglobin with respect to 
oxygen. Haemoglobin has a strong affinity for oxygen, 
and in the presence of free oxygen unites with it, forming 
oxy-haemoglobin. The change is denoted by an alteration 
in colour. The purple haemoglobin becomes the bright 
scarlet oxy-haemoglobin. Oxy-haemoglobin, however, is a 
very unstable compound and readily parts with its surplus 
oxygen in the presence of substances that have a strong 
affinity for oxygen. 

This double action, of taking up oxygen and parting 
with it, is performed in the body by the haemoglobin of 
the red corpuscles. When the blood is passing around the 
air cells of the lungs, the red corpuscles take up the free 
oxygen from the air in the lungs, and the blood becomes 
bright scarlet in colour. But when the oxygenated blood 
flows through the tissues, the reverse action takes place. 
The tissues are demanding oxygen for building up living 
substance and rob the red corpuscles of their surplus store. 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OP THE BODY. 177 

The bright scarlet colour of the blood thereupon changes 

to purple. Thus, the blood flowing from the lungs to the 

tissues is oxygenated and of a bright scarlet colour, and is 

called arterial ; that flowing from the tissues to the lungs 

is de-oxygenated and purple in colour, and is called venous. 

The white corpuscles are far less numerous than the red . 

They are typical living cells with protoplasm 

Corpuscles an( ^ nuc ^ eils - ^ot mu ch is known about the 
work of the white corpuscles, though there is 
much conjecture as to its nature. Their presence in the 
blood seems in some way to influence the process by 
which the tissues absorb nutriment from the blood. It is 
also thought that they feed on the germs of disease that 
have entered the blood. If that be so the activity of the 
white corpuscles is an important factor in resisting disease. 
3. The blood flows through the circulatory system, which 
consists of the heart, arteries, capillaries, and 
The Circula- veins. Its flow is due to the action of the 
Blood* the heart, which is a double pump forcing the 
blood in two main streams through the body. 
One stream flows from the right side of the heart to the 
lungs and back to the left side of the heart. The other 
leaves the left side of the heart, flows through the tissues of 
the body generally and back to the right side of the heart. 
In the former stream the venous blood is oxygena/ted ; in 
the latter it parts with its oxygen and nutrition to the 
tissues and receives in their place waste products. Branches 
of this latter stream, too, flow through the digestive system, 
where nutrition is absorbed into the blood ; and through the 
kidneys and skin, where impurities are withdrawn. 

The blood is carried to the tissues by the arteries, which 

break up into smaller and smaller vessels 

The Arteries. | 3ef()re ^^ enter t k e g^stance of the tissues. 

The arteries are not passive channels. By the action of 
PHY. ED. 12 



178 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

their walls they influence very largely the quantity of 
blood flowing through them. In the walls of the arteries 
are two layers of tissue of considerable importance : one is 
a band of muscular fibres wrapped round the artery, the 
other is a layer of elastic tissue. By the contraction or 
relaxation of the muscular fibres the size of the artery can 
be diminished or increased; but always the elastic fibres 
tend to bring the artery back to its normal position. The 
arteries thus have a structure by which the flow of blood 
to the body generally, or to any particular organ, can be 
regulated. It will be seen later how this regulation of 
flow by the arteries is automatic and depends on the needs 
of the tissues. 

In the tissues the arteries break up into a network of 
hair-like capillaries which permeate every 
Capillaries. P ar ^ ^ their substance. It is in the capil- 
laries that the blood performs its function of 
nourishing the cells and removing their waste products. 
The walls of the capillaries are extremely thin, and readily 
permit the plasma to pass through them. The plasma 
thus directly surrounds the cells and fills up the interstices 
between them. It is here known as lymph. A continuous 
interchange of material takes place between the cells and 
the blood in the capillaries by way of the lymph as inter- 
mediary. Oxygen and nutrition pass from the blood to 
the cells, while the cells hand back creatin, lactic acid, and 
carbonic acid to the blood. 

The blood having passed through the capillaries, where 

The Veins ** ^ aS ^ een ^ es P^ e( ^ ^ ^ s ox yg en an ^ some 

part of its nutrition and fouled by waste 

products, is collected into the veins, which bring it back to 
the heart again. 

4. In its passage through the lungs the blood takes up 
oxygen from the air. It also loses there the carbonic acid 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 179 

which it has absorbed from the tissues. Thus in the lungs 
there is a mutual exchange of gases between 

J he . the air and the blood. The air loses oxvgen 

Respiratory . . ., 

System. an d takes up carbonic acid : the blood gams 

oxygen and loses carbonic acid. In the 
lungs, then, the blood is both oxygenated and partly 
purified. 

The structure of the lungs is suited to a rapid exchange 
of gases, for in the lungs a large surface of 
a * r * s Bought i nto proximity to a large sur- 
face of blood. The wind-pipe, or trachea, 
divides first into two bronchial tubes, called the bronchi. 
These divide repeatedly into smaller and smaller tubes, 
which finally become fine twig-like passages. Each of these 
twig-like passages expands at its end into a collection of air 
cells or chambers, in appearance like a cluster of grapes. It 
is in these air cells that the exchange of gases takes place. 
The air cells have extremely thin walls, and surrounding 
each air chamber is a fine close network of capillaries. The 
blood is thus separated from the air only by the thin walls 
of the capillaries and air cells. Interchange of gases can, 
then, take place by diffusion through the thin medium 
separating blood and air. 

The air which leaves the lungs thus contains more 
carbonic acid and less oxygen than the air 
Expired* Air which enters. It is also saturated with 
moisture, and its temperature approximates 
to the internal temperature of the body. Moreover, 
organic substances are carried by the air from the sides of 
the air passages. These organic substances in the heat and 
moisture of a badly ventilated room rapidly decompose aad 
give rise to a fetid, stuffy smell. These properties make 
air which has been breathed highly injurious to health, and 
it will be the work of a later chapter to show how foul air 



180 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

is to be removed from the rooms of a school and fresh air 
brought into them. 

Oxygen is a vital necessity to the vigorous life and 

growth of the tissues, especially during active 

Mechanism of exerc i se - Hence it is desirable to encourage 

Respiration. the growth of the chest and to train in our 

pupils the habit of deep breathing. In doing 

this, whether by breathing exercises or by active games, the 

teacher should know how the walls and base of the chest 

act in inspiration and expiration. 

The air is drawn into the lungs by an enlargement of the 
chest. The air cells expand, and consequently air rushes 
into the lungs. Expiration is mainly the result of the 
collapse of the chest to its original position. 

The chest is enlarged by the combined action of the 
intercostal muscles that is the muscles between the ribs 
and the diaphragm, which is a large muscular plate separat- 
ing the cavity of the chest from the abdomen. 

The diaphragm is convex towards the chest. The con- 
traction of its muscles, therefore, will cause it to become 
natter. By this action the cavity of the chest is enlarged, 
and air is drawn into the lungs. At the same time, the 
contraction of the diaphragm presses it down on the con- 
tents of the abdomen. Consequently the walls of the 
abdomen are forced out. Hence it comes about that the 
abdomen moves outward and inward to the inspiration 
and expiration of the air. 

The intercostal muscles act on the walls of the chest. 
The ribs are fixed at their spinal end and incline in a 
downward sloping arch towards the breastbone, to which 
they are attached by means of cartilage. There are twelve 
ribs 011 each side, and they increase in length, in slope, 
and in curvature from above downward as far as the 
seventh or eighth rib. The chest thus has its greatest 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 181 

cross section across the line of the seventh or eighth rib. 
Between the ribs are muscular fibres running obliquely 
downward. 




Fig. 7. THE SIDE OF THE CHEST. 

.Showing the twelve Ribs, attached to the twelve Dorsal Vertebrae: Note how the 
Cartilages increase in length. The muscles joining the ribs are the Intercostals, 
the External Intercostals in the first four intercostal spaces, the Internal 
Intercostals in the second four intercostal spaces and between the Costal 
Cartilages. 

The contraction of the intercostal muscles pulls the ribs 
upward and forward. Consequently the chest is enlarged 
from behind forward, and from right to left, especially in 
the line of the seventh or eighth rib. Since the middle and 
lower parts of the chest have a greater air capacity than the 
upper part, the action of the diaphragm, and of the middle 
and lower ribs is most important in securing deep breath- 
ing. Later we shall consider how chest capacity should 
be developed and the habit of deep breathing formed. 

5. The digestive system provides the nutritive element 
of the blood plasma the albumin, sugars, and fats from 
which the tissues build up their living substance. The 



182 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

principle of its action is to change the various food sub- 
stances into a form in which they can be 
readil 7 diffused through the walls of the 
digestive organs, and so pass into the blood. 
Such action is known as digestion. The process of diges- 
tion is a chemical action on the food substances, and is 
performed by various digestive juices secreted from the 
blood by the digestive glands in different parts of the 
digestive system. 

The food substances consist mainly of organic substances, 
and of water and salts. The organic food- 
of Digestion. stuffs are divided into nitrogenous or proteid 
substances, such as flesh and the albumen of 
an egg; carbohydrates, such as sugar and the starches of 
flour and potatoes ; and fats, such as suet and butter. 
The digestion of the proteids, of the carbohydrates, and of 
the fats is performed in different parts of the digestive 
system. The solid food is first masticated in the mouth, 
where it should be thoroughly reduced to small pieces by 
the incisor and grinder teeth. Mastication is aided by the 
saliva from the salivary glands inside the lower jaw and 
underneath the tongue. The saliva, besides helping masti- 
cation, acts on the carbohydrates of the food. It changes 
them into a more diffusible form known as grape sugar. 
The first process of digestion, then, begins in the mouth. 

The masticated and partly digested food is passed down 
the gullet into the stomach. Here it undergoes further 
change. It is churned to and fro by the muscular action 
of the walls of the stomach, and in this way is thoroughly 
mixed with the gastric juice which is secreted by glands in 
those walls. The gastric juice acts on the proteid foods and 
changes them to simpler substances, called peptones, which 
can pass through the walls of the intestines and so into 
the blood. 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 183 

The food leaves the stomach in a thick pea- soup-like 
form and passes into the small intestine. Here it mixes 
with the bile from the liver and with the pancreatic juice 
from the pancreas. These act on the carbohydrates and the 
fats. The digestion of the carbohydrates, which had been 
arrested in the stomach, then recommences, while that of 
the fats begins. 

The digestion of fats is different from that of the proteids 
and carbohydrates. It proceeds, not so much by changing 
the fats into chemically simpler bodies, but by breaking 
the globules of fat into extremely small particles. A similar 
action is seen when drops of oil are violently shaken in 
water. The liquid becomes white and creamy owing to the 
drops of oil breaking up into an extremely large number of 
very small droplets. In this form the liquid is called an 
emulsion. The digestion of fats is of this nature. The 
bile and pancreatic juices act on the globules of fat and 
turn them into a white creamy emulsion. In this form, the 
fats are passed into the blood. 

The food, having been digested in this manner, is passed 

into the blood and enriches the plasma. The 

Substances nutriment, however, is not wholly retained in 

the blood. Part of it, especially the sugars 

and fats, is absorbed by some of the tissues and converted 

into a reserve supply for future use. The liver, the muscles, 

and the connective tissues that bind the organs together 

are the tissues principally concerned in the storing of 

reserve foods. 

The blood, rich with its absorbed food, passes straight 
from the digestive tract to the liver, through the substance 
of which it permeates in a network of fine capillaries. The 
liver cells absorb the excess of sugar from the blood and 
convert it into glycogen or animal starch. This remains 
stored in the cells of the liver until the nutritive condition 



184 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

of the blood so changes that the glycogen is taken back 
again into it for the purpose of general nutrition. In a 
similar way glycogen is stored by the cells of the mus- 
cular tissue. 

Reserve food is largely stored in the form of fat. 
Almost all the tissues take part in this action, and con- 
nective tissue is especially prominent in the work. Fatty 
tissue is formed not only from the emulsified fats passed 
into the blood, but also from the carbohydrates and even 
from the proteids. It is well known, for example, that 
porridge, bread, potatoes, and sugar, which are carbo- 
hydrates, are fattening. The fat globules stored in the 
cells must, then, be manufactured by the cells themselves 
from the nutritive plasma, just as glycogen is manu- 
factured by the liver cells from the sugar of the blood. 

The body, then, contains reserve stores of carbohydrates 
and fats which can be drawn upon when the nutritive 
quality of the blood deteriorates. At such times these 
substances are the first to disappear. Thus, during pro- 
longed fasting, or during illness, or at those times of 
energetic work when the tissues are using up food material 
faster than the digestive system can supply it, these food 
reserves are drawn upon to enrich the blood. A periodic 
supply of nutrition is by this means converted into a 
constant one. 

6. The impurities resulting from the life and work of 
the tissues are constantly being drained into 
Tlie the blood and must, therefore, be constantly 

System. removed unless the activity of the tissues is 

to be hindered. The most important im- 
purities are carbonic acid and urea. Besides these the 
decomposition of the living substance results in the forma- 
tion of water, heat, and a variety of salts. The carbonic 
acid is removed by the lungs, by which channel some 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 185 

of the water and heat also escape ; a small quantity of 
salts and a large amount of water and heat are dis- 
charged through the skin ; while practically all the urea, 
most of the salts, and a large proportion of water are 
removed by the kidneys. 

The action of the lungs in removing the carbonic acid 
has already been considered. It remains to examine the 
action of the skin and kidneys. 

The skin consists of a number of layers. The outside 

layer is hard and horny, and protects the 

body from injury. The outermost scales of 

this layer are constantly being shed or rubbed off in the 

form of flakes. Underneath is a softer layer of cells that 



HAIR 

STRATUM CORNEUM 




SEBACEOUS GLAND 
X ./" 



SWEAT-GLANDS BLOOD-VESSELS 

Fig. 8. 

are continually growing in size and increasing in number 
by division. The cells of this layer are thus gradually 
thrust outward, and are transformed into hard, flattened 
plates to replace those shed from the outer skin. 

The innermost layer is a soft uiiderskin of connective 
tissue which binds the skin to the structures underneath. 
It is plentifully supplied with blood vessels, which break 
up into a system of capillary networks and loops. In 
connexion with this capillary network is a large number of 



186 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

sweat glands. These are tube-like structures curled up 
into knots, from eacli of which a duct passes through 
the outer skin to the exterior of the body. Round the 
knot is the close network of capillaries, so that a large 
surface of blood is subjected to the action of the gland, 
which extracts water and salts. These are exuded through 
the duct and form sweat or perspiration. 

Excretion from the skin is constantly going on, though 
it varies in amount from time to time. During active 
exercise, for example, when the skin is suffused with 
blood, excretion proceeds rapidly, so rapidly in fact that 
the sweat collects into visible drops. Usually, however, 
the sweat evaporates as quickly as it is formed, but leaves 
behind on the skin a small deposit of salts. 

The skin also removes the greater part of the excess 
of heat produced by tissue decomposition. The skin, being 
plentifully supplied with blood-vessels in the form of net- 
works of capillaries, brings a large amount of blood into 
proximity to the cooler air. Heat is thus lost ; the 
amount depending partly on the difference between the 
temperature of the blood and that of the air, and partly 
on the quantity of blood circulating through the skin. 
In this way the temperature of the body is kept fairly 
constant. 

The kidneys remove practically all the urea, most of the 

salts, and a large portion of water. Urea is 
The Kidneys. 

a nitrogenous compound and is the only form 

in which the nitrogenous' element of tissue decomposition 
leaves the body. It is not, however, formed by the tissues 
themselves. It is probable that a more complex nitro- 
genous substance is formed in the tissues, which is trans- 
formed into urea by the action of the liver cells. The 
urea is then removed from the blood by the cells of the 
kidneys. 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 187 

7. The digestive, respiratory, and excretory systems, 
then, by their action on the blood minister 

CentreTfor the to tlie wants of a11 tne tissues. There is, 
Control of the however, one other organ whose action is of 

Organic extreme importance in the organic life of the 

Functions. 

body. This organ is the nervous centre or 

rather collection of centres which adapts the activity of 
the organs to external conditions and internal needs. 

The conditions of tissue life are not always the same. 
A change in the temperature of the air affects the action 
of the skin. A change from rest to active mental or 
physical labour increases the quantity of waste products 
produced and the demand of nerve or muscle cells for 
oxygen and nutrition. Periodically, digestive juices are 
required to deal with the food. Under such constantly 
changing conditions the organs of the body should not 
work in a uniform manner. Unless the bodily machine 
is to become deranged, there must be some mechanism 
by which the activity of the various organs can be 
adapted to the changing conditions. If such adapta- 
tion did not take place, if the circulation, respiration, 
and other organic functions were not regulated to the 
ne3ds of the system, the same uniform stream of blood 
would flow to each organ irrespective of local and general 
needs. Brain or muscle, digestive organs, or skin, whether 
at work or at rest, whether needing much or little, would 
receive the same uniform ration of oxygen and nutrition 
and the same uniform removal of waste products. 

The nervous system for regulating the organic functions 
of the body is, in some respects, separate 
^ rom ^ ie svstem that controls the organs of 
sense and movement, and is called the 
Sympathetic Nervous System. It consists of two nerve 
cords, interrupted by ganglia of nerve cells lying in front 



188 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

of the backbone and passing down the whole length of it. 
The nerves passing from these cords and ganglia join with 
the spinal nerves and with a large nerve from the bulb 
called the pneumo-gastric. The whole forms a complicated 
network of nerves, which finally pass to the viscera of the 
chest and abdomen, and especially to the muscular walls 
of the arteries of the body. The sympathetic system is 
thus in close connexion with the cerebro-spinal system, 
and it is highly probable that some form of local control 
of the organic functions is exercised by means of the 
ganglia of the sympathetic system and the spinal centres 
of the cerebro-spinal system. 

The general control of the whole organic functions, 
however, lies in the bulb. This centre is 
The Organic situated on the main sensory and motor 
th^ Bulb 1 paths to the cerebral hemispheres. It is 

thus in connexion with every muscular 
and sensory area of the body. On the other hand, by 
means of the piieumo-gastric nerve and the distributive 
nerves of the sympathetic system, it is in connexion with 
all the viscera and the blood-vessels. Afferent stimuli, 
then, from any part of the body can, through the organic 
centre in the bulb, influence respiration, circulation, or 
other organic functioning. 

The organic centre, with the exception of that part 
which controls respiration, does not act under the control 
of the cerebral hemispheres. We cannot will to make the 
heart beat faster or to digest our food. We can, however, 
control our breathing to some extent, though we cannot 
entirely suspend it at will. The organic centre, however, 
is in some kind of connexion with the cerebral hemispheres, 
for conscious states influence the beating of the heart, the 
arterial circulation and respiration, and afferent stimuli 
from the viscera contribute largely to the organic feeling 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 189 

of health or illness that forms so important, yet so undis- 
criminated, a background to conscious life. 

The most important function of the organic centre is to 

control the circulation of the blood in ac- 

o?theHeari cordance with the needs of particular organs 

or of the body as a whole. The circulation 

is modified by altering the beating of the heart and by 

contracting or relaxing the arteries which supply the 

organs with blood. 

The heart is composed of muscular tissue, and its beat 
is the contraction of its walls, by which the enclosed space 
is reduced in size and the blood is forced out. Usually 
muscular contraction is due to a nerve stimulus, but the 
rhythmic beating of the heart is not caused in this way. 
The muscular substance of the heart possesses in itself the 
power to contract rhythmically. The continuance of this 
power will, of course, depend on the regular supply of 
oxygen and nutrition to provide for the nutritive changes 
and to supply the energy necessary for rhythmic con- 
traction. Any falling off in the nutrition of the muscular 
substance of the heart at once affects the beating. It 
becomes irregular and weak. A similar result follows if 
the blood contains toxic substances, such as an excess of 
waste products. These substances have a numbing, 
paralysing effect on tissue action, and so, by diminishing 
nutritive changes in the heart, impair its beating. 

Though the rhythmic beating of the heart is not due 
to the action of the organic centre, yet it may be modified 
by nervous stimuli from that centre. The organic centre 
supplies the heart with two sets of nerve fibres. By means 
of one set the beating of the heart can be made quicker 
and stronger, by the other slower and weaker. The 
organic centre can thus augment or inhibit the activity 
of the heart. In what way the centre acts depends, of 



190 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

course, on the kind of nerve currents reaching it. A 
severe pain, an intense emotion, a blow on the stomach, 
each results in inhibitory impulses which may become 
so intense as actually to cause cessation of the heart beat 
and so produce fainting. Mental and muscular exercise, 
on the contrary, affects the centre so as to augment the 
activity of the heart and bring about a more vigorous 
circulation. So intimately is the organic centre in relation, 
directly or indirectly, with the whole bodily organism that 
the heart responds to almost every change that takes place 
in any part of the body. 

The flow of blood through the arteries is regulated on a 

slightly different plan from that by which the 
The Control of heart-beat is affected. The muscular coating 
Circulation ^ ^ e ai 'teries i g plentifully supplied with 

nerve-fibres from the sympathetic system. 
Ordinarily the arteries are in a state of slight contraction 
due to continuous nerve stimuli, probably from the spinal 
centres or from the ganglia of the sympathetic system. Ex- 
citatory impulses will thus cause further contraction and 
produce a diminished flow of blood through the artery. A 
weakening of the nervous stimulus, on the other hand, will 
have the opposite effect of relaxing the artery and produc- 
ing an increased flow of blood through it. 

The flow of blood to any organ can be adapted to the 
needs of that organ by means of this action of the organic 
centre. The presence of food in the mouth, the sight or 
smell of food, or even the thought of it, affects the organic 
centre in such a way that the arteries to the digestive 
glands in the mouth and stomach are relaxed and the 
circulation through the digestive tract is greatly increased. 
The digestive glands are also stimulated to activity by 
efferent impulses from the organic centre. Hence, digestive 
juices are secreted and poured into the digestive tract in 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 191 

readiness for the food about to be eaten. In a similar way 
the flow of blood to an organ in vigorous action is increased. 
The increased circulation through the working organ thus 
meets the demand for an improved nutrition and for a 
more rapid removal of waste products. 

The circulation is thus modified according to the needs 
of the various organs. During a meal, and immediately 
after it, much of the blood stream is diverted to the digestive 
organs ; during physical labour to the muscles ; during 
mental work to the brain. It is not advisable, therefore, 
in the interests of digestion, to play games or to study 
immediately after a good dinner. 

One of the most important of the functions of the 
organic centre is to keep the body at a uniform temperature 
by regulating the supply of blood to the skin. Heat is 
continually being produced by the decomposition of living 
tissue. During exercise, however, the amount formed is 
much greater than that produced when the body is at rest. 
Also during hot weather radiation from the skin tends to 
diminish, and during cold weather to increase. Hence there 
is a need for adapting the radiation from the skin to the 
temperature of the air and to the condition of the tissues. 
In cold weather the arteries to the skin are contracted ; 
consequently, less blood circulates in the skin and less heat 
is lost. In warm weather and during active exercise these 
arteries relax and the skin is suffused with blood ; hence, 
radiation of heat increases. In this way, whether the body 
be at work or at rest, whether the weather be cold or hot, 
the temperature of the body is kept more or less uniform. 

Respiration, as well as circulation, is under the control 

of the organic centre. The exchange of 

Respiration g ases between the tissues and the air through 

the medium of the blood depends partly on 

the circulation of blood through the tissues and the lungs, 



192 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

and partly on the amount of air brought into the lungs, 
that is on the frequency and the depth of breathing. 
Hence, to adapt the exchange of the gases to the needs of 
the system both the circulation and the respiration have 
to be modified coordinately. 

Unlike the beating of the heart, respiration is the direct 
effect of nervous stimulation. Rhythmic inspiration and 
expiration are produced by rhythmic nervous impulses from 
the organic centre. Respiration, therefore, is open to 
many influences from all parts of the system. Emotion, 
pain, concentrated intellectual work, a dash of cold water 
on the skin, irritation in the nasal or bronchial passages, 
all cause modifications in breathing. In these cases afferent 
stimuli reach the organic centre and result in modifying 
the rhythmic impulses to the lungs. 

The organic centre, however, not only responds to 
afferent stimuli, but also to the condition of the blood. 
Just as the quality of the blood affects the activity of the 
muscles of the heart so it influences the activity of the 
cells of the organic centre. Venous blood, that is blood 
uiideroxygenated and containing an excess of carbonic 
acid, causes an increased activity in that part of the 
centre which controls breathing. As the venous character 
of the blood increases, the activity of the centre becomes 
more and more violent. Such a state is seen in breath- 
lessiiess, when, it is evident, the centre is convulsively 
attempting to deepen and quicken the breathing. 

The state of the blood thus affects respiration. But 
the venous character of the blood is a measure of the 
activity of the tissues. Hence respiration adapts itself, 
through the medium of the blood and the organic centre, 
to the state of rest or action of the body. When the body 
is in repose breathing is quiet ; with exercise it quickens ; 
with violent exertion it becomes laboured. Breathlessness 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 193 

is, then, a sign that the system has reached its limit of 
adaptability. It means that the respiratory mechanism is 
being strained beyond its capacity in trying to oxygenate 
the blood and to remove the carbonic acid with sufficient 
rapidity to meet the demands of the tissues. 

8. Sufficient account has been given of the organic 

functions and of the way in which they are 

Conditions adapted to the needs of the system to indicate 

Life and ^ ne conditions for healthy life and growth. 

Growth. Primarily healthy life and growth depend 

on the quality of the blood and the vigour of 

the circulation. Hence whatever measures are taken for 

developing the body physically, they should all aim at 

bottom at improving the life-giving properties of the vital 

fluid. 

The heart should be a sound muscular organ able to 
respond by vigorous and strong beating in times of ener- 
getic action. The blood should be nourishing. This 
depends on the food and digestion. Nourishment should 
be sufficient for life and growth. It should provide varied 
material for building up nerve, muscle, and bone. It 
should be easily digested, for the energy of food cannot 
become the energy of life and growth unless the food enters 
the blood and is built into living tissue. A child may 
become physically weak and mentally defective as much 
from bad feeding as from under-feeding. 

The blood should be well oxygenated. For this the 
blood should be plentifully supplied with red corpuscles, 
the oxygen carriers for the tissues. Anaemic children are 
wanting in physical and mental vitality. They cannot 
respond with the boisterous energy that is a sign of 
healthy childhood. They are pale, hollow-eyed, and dull. 
Their nervous and muscular systems are starved for want 
of oxygen. The heart, too, is weakened, and circulation 
PHY. ED, 13 



194 THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 

suffers. Digestion is enfeebled. The slightest exertion 
brings on breathlessiiess and exhaustion. With such a 
condition of the blood vigorous growth is impossible. 

The lungs, too, should be capacious and the breathing 
deep and well controlled. Energetic action should not 
easily bring on breathlessness ; for breathlessness, if easily 
produced, is a sign either of poor lungs, weak heart, or 
anaemic blood. Respiratory failure may be due either to 
the lungs not bringing the air in sufficient quantities to the 
blood, or to the heart not forcing the blood sufficiently 
rapidly through the lungs, or to the inability of the blood 
to absorb sufficient oxygen. Hence, for oxygenating the 
blood during active work, and for the continuance of work 
in an energetic manner, capacious lungs, a strong heart, 
and blood rich in red corpuscles are essential. 

It is needless to enlarge on the importance of breathing 
pure fresh air to oxygenate the blood. 

The purity of the blood depends on the energetic action 
of the skin, lungs, and kidneys. Hence mental health and 
vigour depend on the health of these organs. Much of the 
languor, listlessness, and irritability that attend a seden- 
tary life result from the faulty action of the excretory 
organs. 

Thus, in the physical development of the young, food, 
fresh air, and the development of good lung capacity, a 
strong heart, and vigorous digestive and excretory systems 
are of great importance. Some of these concern the 
teacher and require, therefore, more detailed treatment. 

The activity of the organs is under the control of the 
organic centre, which responds to external conditions and 
to internal needs. The conditions of a child's life, however, 
are to a large extent under the control of teachers and 
parents. Hence measures can be taken for promoting the 
activity of digestion, circulation, and excretion. Nutritive 



THE ORGANIC LIFE OF THE BODY. 195 

changes throughout the whole body can thus be stimulated, 
and health and growth fostered. The kind of life favour- 
able to the energetic functioning of the organic system is, 
then, of vital importance in physical education. Its general 
character has, in some measure, already been suggested. 
Exercise, it has been seen, promotes respiration and cir- 
culation and results in improved nutritive changes. It 
also increases the circulation through the skin and so tends 
to purify the blood. It will, however, be seen that relaxa- 
tion, rest, and sleep are also important agencies in the 
development of the body. Hence, the kind and amount of 
exercise and of relaxation necessary to healthy life and 
growth should be fully considered in organising the life 
of a school. 

Finally, there should be emphasised the connexion be- 
tween the vigour of the organic activities and the mental 
development of the child. Mental life has its physical 
basis in the activity of the nerve cells of the cerebral hemi- 
spheres. Consequently, its vigour will depend on the 
quantity and the quality of the blood circulating through 
the brain. Impure blood, blood poor in oxygen and in 
nutriment, or a feeble circulation, have their effect in 
producing feebleness of conscious life. Under such con- 
ditions fatigue is more easily brought on and more slowly 
recovered from, and the vigour of mental life is never very 
great. 

The organic life of the body, however, is reflected in 
consciousness in another way. Through the afferent fibres 
of the sympathetic system consciousness is influenced by 
the state of the body. These organic impressions are 
largely of an emotional character. They give us little 
precise knowledge concerning the state of the organs of 
the body, but they have a great influence on the general 
emotional tone of consciousness. Irritability, low spirits, 



196 THE ORGANIC LIFE OP THE BODY. 

mental depression, and even melancholia pervade our mental 
life during ill health and bodily weakness, while bright 
and happy spirits and cheerfulness attend vigorous health. 
It is evident, then, that the pervading mental tone is 
largely the outcome of bodily states. And the kind of 
mental tone determines very largely the lines of mental 
development. Feebleness of mental life, irritability, and 
low spirits beget a timid outlook on the world, and the 
child grows up lacking in that manliness, self-assertion, 
and self -confidence without which is no effective and suc- 
cessful living. On the other hand, cheerfulness, mental 
elasticity and vigour beget that - boisterous, courageous, 
and manly outlook that welcomes difficulties and struggle 
and finds its greatest pleasure in hard-earned victory. 



CHAPTER VII. 



FATIGUE. 

1. THE life of the tissues consists in the double process 
of elaborating complex living molecules from 
Continued the nutrition and oxygen supplied by the 
blood and of the destruction of those mole- 
cules. At every moment of life, energy has 
to be supplied to the cells of the tissues to replace the 
energy lost by tissue decomposition. But during the active 
functioning of an organ energy is expended at a much 
more rapid rate than when the organ is at rest. The living 
substance is the storehouse of the energy of bodily work, 
and during muscular contraction and nervous excitation 
muscular and nervous tissue is rapidly decomposed to 
supply the energy for these forms of activity, just as coal 
must be continually burnt to supply the energy for the 
working of a steam-engine. Since, however, neither muscle 
nor nerve cells have an indefinite fund of energy, function- 
ing must, if continued long enough and with sufficient 
vigour, result in a gradual exhaustion of tissue energy, 
and lead to a total disability to continue either muscular or 
nervous work. 

Such a condition of the tissues would be one of total 
collapse, and recovery would involve the gradual rebuilding 
of the tissue substance, a process that would be very slow. 
Before such a state of exhaustion is reached, however, there 
are many obvious signs of discomfort, of strain, and of 
overwork. 

197 



198 FATIGUE. 

After vigorous work lias been prolonged for some time 
we become aware of a growing feeling of tiredness and 
inertia, a disinclination to continue, and a desire for rest. 
Our efforts lack that elasticity, brightness, and ' go ' that 
mark our work when the mind and the body are fresh. 
Best comes as a distinct relief. Attention to our work, 
however, though it begins to flag, can be forced. Work 
can still be carried on by deliberately ignoring these warn- 
ings, until a stage is reached in which both mind and body 
refuse to be driven. Attention can 110 longer be forced, 
nor the signs of distress ignored. Work then comes to an 
end from total inability to continue. 

2. It is evident that these sensations of fatigue and 
strain are produced by bodily conditions 
resulting from prolonged cell activity. The 

activity of the nerve cells of the cerebrum is 
influenced either through the blood stream or by incoming 
stimuli through the afferent nerves from the bodily organs. 
At a first glance one is apt to suggest that 
Energy "* ' ^ e Bodily conditions of fatigue are due. to 
increasing loss of power in the organs working, 
and there can be little doubt that loss of power is a factor 
in fatigue and yet more in exhaustion. But besides loss 
of power as a result of cell activity there is a continual and 
unceasing accumulation of waste products, the outcome 
of tissue decomposition. It is very probable that these 
products exercise some harmful influence 011 the activity of 
the cells in which they are present. 

Many substances affect in one way or another the meta- 
bolism of the cells. Some stimulate the cell 
Toxic Action to increased activity ; others have a paraly- 
Products sm e:n?ec t an< l decrease cell activity. Most 

drugs act on the system in one of these 
two ways. Strychnine, for example, stimulates the action 



FATIGUE. 199 

of the nerve cells, and when taken in large quantities leads 
to violent convulsions. On the other hand, tobacco dimi- 
nishes the activity of the cells. It has already been shown 
how the waste products of tissue destruction affect the 
action both of the heart and of the centre of respiration. 
Hence it is very probable that the waste products of tissue 
life and functioning have a harmful effect on the activity 
of nerve and muscle cells, exerting a numbing influence, 
and, in large quantities, altogether paralysing their func- 
tioning power. That the waste products are harmful is 
suggested by the facts that the excretory system of lungs, 
skin, and kidneys exists for the purpose of ridding the body 
of them, and that any weakness or disease which causes 
deficient excretory action has very pronounced mental and 
bodily symptoms. 

Since the life processes of all kinds of cells are in the 

main very similar to each other, it is very 
Nervous likely that the harmful effects of waste 

sensitive to* products is felt by all tissues. But since 
Toxic Agents, differentiation of function is so marked a 

feature in the human organism it is a 
reasonable supposition that some kinds of cells are more 
sensitive than others to the action of toxic substances. Of 
all the cells of the body those of the nervous system are 
peculiarly sensitive to conditions external to them. The 
quantity and character of the blood circulating through the 
nervous system immediately influence the nature of the 
metabolism within the nerve cells. Fainting, delirium, 
convulsions, lassitude are some of the many symptoms of 
an abnormal action of the blood on the nerve centres. 
Such sensitiveness to bodily conditions is what we should 
expect in a system which regulates and controls the activity 
of all the other systems of the body, diminishing or 
increasing it according to internal or external conditions. 



200 FATIGUE. 

Since, too, the cells of tlie cerebral hemispheres are the 
most highly differentiated and developed of 
Effects of Toxic a u the cells, these are peculiarly liable to 
Consciousness. ^e affected by toxic agents present in them 
or in the blood stream, and the effects of 
such agents will immediately be felt in consciousness. 
Those agents that stimulate metabolic activity will produce 
a heightened conscious tone ; those that diminish such 
activity will induce a lowered tone. It is well known that 
many drugs, such as chloroform and ether, have a very 
marked influence on the nerve cells of the cerebrum, and 
produce important changes in consciousness without affect- 
ing materially the functional activity of the rest of the 
system. Alcohol, tobacco, or opium, too, has each its 
stimulating or soporific influence on the nerve cells. 

It can now be conceived how prolonged and vigorous 
activity in any tissue, whether nerve or muscle, may lead 
to conditions which render the further continuance of work 
increasingly difficult, and how these conditions may be 
reflected in consciousness by sensations of lassitude, tired- 
ness, and fatigue. 

3. With a view to gaining some data for working out 
this problem, Professor Mosso, of Turin, 
Experiments performed a series of experiments on living 
Mosso 6S muscle. Taking a muscle with the nerve 

attached from a newly-killed frog, he stimu- 
lated the muscle to periodic contraction by a series of 
electric shocks passed through the nerve. By means of a 
short style fastened to the end of the muscle, 
an( ^ mar ^ m a moving sheet of smoked glass, 
each contraction and relaxation was re- 
presented on the glass by a curve. The curve marked after 
the first shock showed that the contraction proceeded 
rapidly up to its maximum point. Then the muscle 



FATIGUE. 201 

began to relax, quickly at first, but afterwards with in- 
creasing slowness, until its original position was reached. 
With each successive shock the contraction proceeded more 
and more slowly ; the extent of the contraction also dimin- 
ished and the relaxations became more and more prolonged. 
Finally, after from 1,000 to 1,500 shocks, the limit was 
reached and the muscle failed to respond. 

From this experiment it is clear that from the first 
beginning of active functioning there is a gradually in- 
creasing inability to respond, leading finally to total dis- 
ability. But the experiment does not establish whether 
this increasing inability is due to loss of energy or to the 
toxic effects of the accumulating waste products. To 
decide this point Professor Mosso washed the blood 
vessels of the muscle thoroughly in saline solution, so as 
to remove the waste products, and then subjected the 
muscle to further experiment. It was found to respond 
again, though neither so readily nor to so great an extent 
as at first. Still, it had regained much of its former 
power. Consequently, it was clear that much, though not 
all, of the inability to respond was due to the toxic in- 
fluence of the waste products produced by the contraction 
of the living substance of the muscular fibres. 

In normal bodily activity, however, muscular action is 
stimulated and controlled from the nerve 
Fatigue of centres, and this experiment, so artificial in 
Centred ^ s character, gave no information as to what 

effects might be produced 011 the nerve 
centres directing the muscles. To throw some light on 
this point the hand and arm of the experimenter were 
strapped to a table, so that no group of muscles could be 
moved but that of the middle finger, to which was attached 
a weight by means of a string passing over a pulley. The 
experiment consisted in raising the weight by voluntary 



202 FATIGUE. 

effort at regular intervals ; the results being recorded by 
means of a style attached to the weight marking a moving 
sheet of smoked glass. 

In this case not only muscular energy but also nervous 
energy in the various nerve centres controlling the muscles 
was expended. As the experiment proceeded, the height to 
which the finger could raise the weight began to diminish, 
and the contraction of the finger became more and more 
prolonged, until finally the strongest impulse of the will 
failed to produce any result. Was the fatigue, however, in 
the muscular tissue or in the nervous centres directing the 
muscles ? To decide this point electric stimulus was 
resorted to, the shock being applied to the nerve passing 
down the arm to the fingers. As a result, the muscles that 
previously had failed to respond to voluntary effort now 
contracted, showing plainly that the inability to respond 
was not in the muscular substance but in the motor centres. 
Nervous substance, then, is more liable to fatigue than 
muscular tissue, and we are thus led to conclude that in all 
cases of fatigue, even from physical exertion, the fatigue is 
largely of a nervous character. 
4. These experiments, and others of a similar nature, rough 

as they are, suggest beyond doubt that the 
Exhaustion physiological cause of fatigue, particularly in 

its initial stages, is not so much the exhaus- 
tion of tissue energy as the paralysis of tissue activity by the 
toxic action of the waste products of that activity. These 
waste products act as a kind of safety valve, causing dis- 
ablement of the tissues before their store of energy is 
reduced to a dangerously low point. There can be no 
doubt, however, that, as functioning is prolonged, the 
living substance of the cells begins increasingly to feel the 
effects of the diminution of energy. As vigorous activity 
continues, fatigue is rapidly followed by exhaustion, the 



FATIGUE. 203 

effects of which are much more serious and lasting than are 
those of the initial stages of fatigue. This indicates that 
in exhaustion there has been a drain on vital energy which 
can only be compensated by the slow building up of new 
tissue and the storing of new power. In the initial stages 
of fatigue, however, relief is obtained when the toxic sub- 
stances have been removed from the system. 

The first signs of fatigue, then, must be regarded as a 
warning that the nervous and muscular tissues have 
reached the point beyond which further work will make 
a considerable strain on their vital energy. The system, or 
some part of it, is functioning beyond the capacity of the 
body to deal with the results of that functioning by remov- 
ing waste products and by restoring the energy expended. 
As has been suggested, the more sensitive higher centres 
of consciousness first feel the effects of the toxic waste 
products, and the first signs of strain are given by the 
feelings of tiredness and lassitude, by the want of bright- 
ness and elasticity, a considerable time before the lower 
centres and the muscles are materially affected. As work 
continues, the effect on consciousness increases, thought 
becomes more laboured, voluntary actions are less skilfully 
performed, the power of making persistent, strenuous, and 
patient effort decreases, and disinclination to work becomes 
increasingly intense. The conscious control of thought 
and of voluntary movement is thus impeded, and finally it 
ceases, either voluntarily or through incapacity to continue, 
before the nervous and muscular systems as a whole have 
become utterly exhausted. 

But when initial fatigue is pushed to exhaustion the 
body increasingly suffers from loss of energy, and recovery 
then involves the slow building up of new tissue and 
energy. The further work is carried beyond the point of 
initial fatigue, the greater is the drain on vital energy, the 



204 FATIGUE. 

more harm is clone, and the slower is the recovery. It is, 
then, more economical of bodily energy to cease work when 
the first signs of fatigue show themselves, in order to take 
a brief recuperative rest, than it is to continue work and 
push fatigue to exhaustion. During a brief rest taken in 
time the system rapidly recovers, toxic waste products are 
removed, energy is restored, and work can be begun again 
with renewed zeal. Regular successive periods for re- 
cuperative rest throughout the day will thus defer the time 
when work should cease, altogether. More work can be 
accomplished with less harm under such a plan than when 
work is continued without regular intervals for rest. On 
the latter plan, when fatigue sets in increasing efforts of 
will to maintain attention and to force work have to be 
made; and this means a further expenditure of nervous 
force, which aggravates the evil. 

5. As the cause of fatigue is the toxic. action of waste 
products together with the loss of energy 
ft-om^Fati in the functioning cells, rest is essential to 

recovery. Continued activity can only 
augment the evil. During the whole time of function- 
ing, however, the system, by means of the blood stream, is 
endeavouring to cope with the bodily conditions. Waste 
products are being poured into the blood and circulated 
through the body and so through the excretory system, 
and nourishment is continuously being supplied to the 
working organs. Fatigue, however, means that the body 
cannot remove waste products and supply nourishment 
rapidly enough to meet the demands, and thus, so to 
speak, the bodily machinery is thrown out of gear. Time is 
needed, during which work ceases, for the blood stream to 
restore the tissues to their former healthy condition by 
removing the waste products and by offering supplies of 
nutriment. The blood, however, though relieving the 



FATIGUE. 205 

working tissues of the waste products, is fouling itself, 
and circulating these toxic agents throughout the whole 
system. Hence, though th working tissues are the first 
organs to be fatigued, yet, as the waste products accumu- 
late in the blood, all the tissues begin to feel their evil 
effects, and fatigue begins to be general. As the nervous 
tissue is the most sensitive to the action of toxic agents 
this fatigue is mainly felt in the nerve centres, especially 
in the higher centres of consciousness, which are the most 
sensitive of all. 

When fatigue is purely local it is obvious that change 

of work will rest those tissues that are 
Worif 6 C fatigued. Change from one kind of mental 

work to another, or from mental to physical 
labour, will bring distinct relief and produce good resiilts. 
Regular changes of this kind throughout the day will 
bring all the nerve centres into action, and yet will give 
periods of relaxation for each, during which recuperation 
can take place. Strain and over-pressure evils so common 
at the present day are largely due to badly adjusted 
burdens, and would be prevented if changes of work were 
more frequent. 

Although recovery from local fatigue is taking place 
when the nature of the work is altered, yet general fatigue 
is increasing. The blood stream still continues to gather 
in the waste products. Hence, as the day goes on, general 
lassitude and a desire for total rest denote that the nervous 
system as a whole is feeling the effects of the day's activity. 
The system is permeated with the waste products of the 
continued work, the nervous system in particular responds 
with diminishing vigour and energy, and feelings of lassi- 
tude, tiredness, and fatigue colour our consciousness. 
Total rest, alone, can remove general fatigue, and this rest 
is given in sleep, 



206 FATIGUE. 

Sleep is the rest of consciousness. The whole system, 
however, is not asleep. Reflex and auto- 
matic actions ajid organic life go on much 
the same as during waking life. Dreams, sleep walking, 
and talking indicate that even some cerebral activity is 
possible. Yet the essential mark of sleep is the cessation 
of conscious life and of those bodily activities that depend 
on conscious control. During sleep, then, we must consider 
that cerebral activity is reduced below that point at which 
consciousness appears. Hence, whatever reduces the activity 
of the nerve cells promotes sleep. 

Fatigue is almost always one of the factors in the on- 
coming of sleep. Continued cerebral activity, involving ex- 
penditure of cerebral energy and the accumulation of waste 
products, reduces the power of functioning, and hence pro- 
motes the state of sleep. Reduction of circulation through 
the brain by lessening cerebral activity is also conducive 
to sleep. Experimental observation has shown that before 
sleep sets in at nightfall there are considerable modifica- 
tions in the bodily circulation. The arteries of the brain 
contract, while those to the skin relax. Hence less blood 
flows through the brain and more through the skin; a 
state of things that promotes cerebral inactivity. Hot- 
water bottles and warm rooms and clothes, therefore, by 
promoting circulation in the extremities and skin favour 
sleep. Cold rooms and insufficient bed clothes are un- 
favourable. After a meal, too, blood is withdrawn from 
the brain to the digestive organs. An empty stomach 
frequently causes a restless night, while a heavy meal 
induces drowsiness and torpor. A horizontal position and 
the relaxation of all voluntary muscles cause a slow heart 
beat, and this is favourable to reduced cerebral action. 

The cessation of incoming stimuli and the stoppage of 
thought mean cessation of cerebral functioning. So in 



FATIGUE. 207 

settling ourselves to sleep we cease active thinking and 
shut as many as possible of the avenues for incoming 
stimuli. The room is darkened and quiet and we endeavour 
to think of nothing. In every way we seek to reduce 
cerebral activity to a minimum. Pain, noise, light, and 
whatever promotes thought such as joy, sorrow, remorse, 
pricks of conscience, hope, fear, excitement of any kind 
by promoting cerebral action with the attendant cerebral 
circulation delay sleep. 

Sleep is necessary to health. Continued want of sleep 
is, indeed, fatal sooner than prolonged want of food, and 
the brain suffers far more in the former case than in the 
latter. Loss of sleep results in marked cerebral changes. 
There is a steady decrease in the power of attention, 
memory becomes defective, and the control and intensity 
of voluntary movement are lessened, all indicating a 
steady decline in cerebral power. We must conceive, 
then, that during conscious life the expenditure of cerebral 
energy is greater than its repair, and sleep is needed as a 
period when elaboration of tissue and energy can proceed 
more rapidly than its destruction. 

The changes in cerebral tissue during the day's work 
and during sleep are very well summed up by Professor 
Donaldson in the following passage : " From the beginning 
of the day the process of running down goes on, all the 
constant stimuli hasten it, meals retard it, drugs modify 
it, according to their nature. In general there is a tendency 
to run down in the middle of the afternoon, with a return 
to vigour later in the day. On this long rhythm is super- 
posed one by which in the evening the blood supply to the 
brain diminishes at the accustomed hour of retiring. This 
change in the blood supply appears to depend on the waste 
substances produced by the active cells. These accumulate 
faster than they are removed and render activity more 



208 FATIGUE. 

difficult. At the beginning of sleep these substances are 
abundant, the stored material in the cells is small, and the 
cells themselves are shrunken in various ways. Slowly 
the toxic products of metabolism are removed, and at the 
end of two or three hours the sleeper is in a state to be 
readily wakened, though physiological recuperation has 
just begun. The circulation has become better, the con- 
structive changes in the cells continue, and at the end of the 
interval the nerve cells are restored, and the body prepared 
for the next period of work." 1 

6. From this analysis of the causes of fatigue and 

recovery from fatigue it is easy to point out 

HeafthyWork! tllose conditions of living that will most 

readily induce fatigue and those that will 

best retard its appearance. 

Since one element in fatigue, and the most important 
factor in exhaustion, is the loss of energy in 
The the functioning cells, it is clear that a well- 

ofthe S Body nourished body is a good safeguard against 
fatigue. It has already been seen that the 
liver and the muscles store from the blood surplus nutri- 
tion which can be drawn upon in times of excessive and 
long-continued work. The presence of reserve material of 
this kind, ready at hand to be transferred to the blood and 
to replenish the energy of the working tissues, is a great 
help in delaying fatigue and in preventing the exhaustion 
which follows if work be continued. 

Although reserve material of this kind is a great help 
in times of active prolonged work, yet a well-nourished 
body is rather one whose nervous and muscular tissues are 
replete with nervous and muscular energy. The energy of 
digested food is then present not simply in the form of 

1 The Growth of the Brain, p. 322. 



FATIGUE. 209 

reserve nutriment, but actually in the tissues in the form 
of nervous and muscular power, upon which large demands 
can be made without harm resulting. Such tissue, more- 
over, is full of vigorous life, is capable of more intense 
activity, and can renew itself with greater energy than 
tissue of a weak, flabby, and debilitated character. 

Especially should the nervous system be thus strong, 
vigorous, and well-nourished, since fatigue is first felt 
in it. On its activity depend, moreover, the life processes 
and the harmonious functioning of all the other organs in 
the body, and on the tone of the higher centres depends 
the vigour of mental life. A vigorous and well-nourished 
nervous system is thus essential to health, to vigorous 
physical labour, and to sustained mental work. It is well 
known that after serious illness, when the nervous system 
is completely debilitated, the slightest mental or physical 
exertion rapidly brings on fatigue, and, if continued, results 
in a serious relapse due to exhaustion. 

The life and activity of the tissues is also dependent on 
sufficient supplies of oxygen. So, blood rich 
in the oxygen carrier, haemoglobin, is ob- 
viously' an aid to vigorous and prolonged 
activity without fatigue. Anaemic persons soon succumb to 
fatigue, and easily become exhausted. All the organs of 
the body experience the evil effects of the poor vital stream. 
They are always more or less devitalised. They fail more 
rapidly, and recovery must be slow, since the building up 
of tissue is dependent on oxygenated blood. There is, 
under such conditions, a permanent tendency for fatigue 
to become chronic, as the tissues are always in a state 
of reduced energy. Blood rich in haemoglobin is, then, an 
essential condition for vigorous and prolonged 'mental or 
physical exertion. 

Fresh air is another important factor in postponing 

PHY. ED. 14 



210 FATIGUE. 

fatigue. The mere breathing of air charged with carbonic 
acid and organic refuse from the air passages will in itself 
bring on a physiological state analogous to fatigue. The 
blood, under such circumstances, can never become 
thoroughly oxygenated and cleared of carbonic acid, while 
the noxious organic substances decomposing in a room, 
superheated and surcharged with moisture, act as poisonous 
toxic agents on the blood. To such conditions the tissues 
react by decreasing activity. The languor, lassitude, and 
headache produced by breathing foul air indicate that the 
action on the higher nervous centres is very similar to 
that resulting from the action of the waste products of 
the tissues. "Well ventilated rooms, then, are a neces- 
sary element of the school economy, so that the greatest 
output of work may be obtained without detriment to the 
body. 

The rapidity with which fatigue is produced and is re- 
covered from depends also on the circula- 
TJ 16 tion of the blood. The rate at which the 

of the Blood, tissues replenish their energy both during 
and after functioning, and at which the 
waste products are removed from the working tissues to 
the excretory organs, is determined entirely by the vigour 
of the circulation. A sluggish flow of blood is conducive to 
the oncoming of fatigue. Such a circulation is the natural 
outcome of a sedentary occupation. The heart is less active 
during rest than during muscular activity. Hence, if life 
is of a sedentary kind, the heart becomes adapted to the 
work it is called on to do, and poor circulation becomes the 
normal condition. The continued poring over books while 
sitting in desks, for example, leads naturally to weak cir- 
culation, the blood stagnating in the larger blood-vessels of 
the abdomen, whilst the circulation in the extremities be- 
comes feeble. Cold hands and feet are a sign of enfeebled 



FATIGUE . 211 

circulation. Under such conditions the tissues are in- 
capable of offering a strong resistance to the onset of 
fatigue. Active exercise is essential if we would secure 
vigorous work at school, for it is only by means of active 
exercise that a powerful heart can be developed and circu- 
lation made vigorous. 

Active physical exercise during some considerable part 

of the day should, therefore, be part of the 
Exercise daily life of pupils, and if this is not obtained 

out of school hours, it should be included in 
the school curriculum. For younger pupils the amount of 
class-room work demanded at present is certainly too 
great. Much more of their time should be spent in active 
physical exercise in the open air. During winter gymnastic 
exercises and open-air games should be taken in school 
hours, for Jby the shortness of the days play after school is 
much curtailed. 

After each lesson there should be at least five minutes 
vigorous physical activity. Circulation is thereby im- 
proved, and the tendency to fatigue lessened. These 
intervals throughout the day are suitable opportunities for 
practising drill, breathing exercises, and indulging in 
recreative singing. During vigorous muscular exercise, 
however, respiration is increased, and there is a greater 
amount of carbonic acid expired. The air of the room 
is thus being more rapidly fouled than during the more 
sedentary class-room studies. Consequently it is advisable 
that during such exercises the rooms should be flushed 
with fresh air from open doors and windows. 

It should hardly be necessary to point out that the 
rapid removal of waste products prevents the oncoming of 
fatigue, and also aids in recovery from it. The excretory 
system must, then, be in a healthy condition. It will be 
seen in the next chapter that muscular exercise, appropriate 



212 FATIGUE. 

in amount and in kind, promotes the healthy activity 
of the skin and kidneys. Moreover, habits of cleanliness, 
by keeping open the pores of the skin, maintain it in a 
healthy condition, and aid the excretion of waste products 
through this channel. 

7. Since a large part of the daily life of the child is 
spent in school in active mental or physical 

The Organisa- wor k the question of fatigue is very im- 
tion of School . J 

Work, portant in school economy; particularly as 

the period of school life is also the period 
of growth. The aim of the teacher should always be the 
development of the child both mentally and physically. 
Hence the organisation of the school pursuits and occupa- 
tions should be such that the body, as well as the mind, 
develops its full capacity by means of such life. No school 
life is satisfactorily organised if the school conditions lead 
to physical deterioration or require long periods of rest 
for recuperation. The school life is out of harmony with 
the natural line of child growth if the whole being, body 
and soul, is not harmoniously developed. In a later 
chapter it will be seen that mental or physical work, if 
performed under proper conditions, improves the system 
generally, except when carried beyond the point where 
fatigue ensues. Beyond this point there is a drain on the 
vital energy of the system, and positive harm results to 
health and growth. The teacher, then, must aim at ob- 
taining the greatest amount of activity without harm 
resulting. Each pupil should be regarded as a living 
machine with a certain amount of energy to be expended 
on daily work and with definite powers of recuperation. 
This living machine is to be worked in the most economical 
manner. The utmost development must be secured by 
means of vigorous mental and physical work, yet the 
occupations should be so organised, and should be 



FATIGUE. 213 

performed under such conditions, that no injury is done 
to the growing system. 

Hygienic external conditions of work will be the first 
consideration. Healthy, well ventilated 
SummmUneg rooms, bright and cheerful in appearance, 
well lighted and suitably heated, are the first 
necessity. The school attitudes in sitting, writing, and 
reading should be such that if they do not directly promote 
physical development they yet do not lead to positive harm 
in spinal curvature, contracted chest, enfeebled circulation, 
and weak eyesight. Indeed, active measures should be 
taken, by means of exercises to develop the chest and 
back, to promote circulation and to counteract any evil 
effects that may accrue from such positions. Change from 
sitting to standing, from physical rest to active muscular 
exercise is essential to health and growth. A school life 
of a markedly sedentary character will lead to physical 
weakness and a stunted bodily growth. 

In organising the school 'occupations the most vigorous 
work should be demanded when the system 
Worlf e ' * s mos t fresh. The first part of the morning 

is the best time for mental work requiring 
close attention and concentrated application. After recre~ 
ation and meals, too, the body is in a condition to with- 
stand fatigue. A complete change in the kind of work 
from lesson to lesson, so that different nerve centres are 
brought into action in successive lessons, is the most 
economical of energy. The risk of fatigue is still further 
diminished when the occupations become more mechanical 
and recreative as the day advances. 

Intervals for recreation of a spontaneous and physical 
character bring relief and promote vigour. This recreative 
play should be energetic but not violent, and should be 
carried 011 in the open air. It should promote active 



214 FATIGUE. 

circulation through the whole system and should thoroughly 
oxygenate the blood. The tissues by that 
lneans will be stirred to vigorous life, while 
the higher centres of thought will be 
resting. Recuperation of nervous energy is thus going on 
under the best conditions. After such recreative play the 
pupils should feel refreshed, bright, and eager for further 
steady work. The interval for recreation to be of real 
value should be sufficiently long ; at least from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. Every possible moment should be spent 
in recreative play. Teachers should organise suitable 
games for their pupils and encourage all to participate 
actively in them. Lounging about the playground should 
not be permitted. 

Besides the longer intervals for recreation there should 
be shorter breaks between successive lessons. These breaks 
of a few minutes should be used for recreative singing, 
breathing exercises, and drill. In that way both circulation 
and respiration are promoted, a few minutes' rest is 
obtained, and the next lesson is begun with increased 
vigour and energy. 

The end of the school session should not find the pupils 
thoroughly fatigued, for the evening should 
bring other occupations for body and mind. 
Home lessons should not make heavy demands either in 
time or energy. It should be remembered that the pupils 
need to enter into the home life, and that reading, indoor 
amusements, and outdoor games should find a place in 
their lives. Bedtime should find the child healthily tired, 
but not exhausted. A fagged, exhausted, or excited brain 
is not conducive to sleep, and sleep is needed to restore the 
energy of the nervous system. 

The bedroom should be spacious, well ventilated, and 
neither too warm nor too cold, During sleep respiration 



FATIGUE, 215 

is changed, inspirations are longer, the amount of oxygen 
inhaled is increased, and the amount of car- 
Conditions bonic acid removed is diminished. Hence, 
there should always be sufficient ventilation 
to provide the oxygen necessary for thorough 
recuperation and to remove the carbonic acid and heated air 
which will otherwise accumulate and render proper recovery 
impossible. Sleeping in a foul, stuffy, ill-ventilated room 
is followed by heaviness and a sense of fatigue, indicating 
that the blood and tissues have not been thoroughly cleansed 
of waste products nor their energies renewed. 

Draughts, however, should be avoided, as the skin 
during sleep is more active in perspiring and therefore 
more liable to chills than during the day. On the other 
hand, the room should not be too warm, as warmth tends 
to increase the action of the skin and leads to enfeeble- 
ment of the system by excessive perspiration. Sleep in too 
hot a room never gives that feeling of freshness and 
elasticity which follows healthy sleep. 

Sleep, moreover, should not be longer than is necessary 
for thorough recuperation. Sleep means reduced cerebral 
activity, and activity is necessary for healthy life and 
growth. Too prolonged sleep may, then, lead to enfeeble- 
ment of consciousness ; and this explains why those whose 
sleep is heavy and long are often dull-witted and unintel- 
lectual. It must be admitted, however, that some of the 
ablest men have been long sleepers. But beyond doubt 
the circulation of the blood and the expiration of carbonic 
acid are reduced during sleep. Hence the life processes 
of the tissues are proceeding less vigorously than during 
waking life. Therefore, to prolong sleep beyond the amount 
necessary for thorough recuperation of the system is to 
hinder growth, for it is by exercise and activity that both 
body and mind develop. 



216 



FATIGUE. 



The amount of sleep required depends on the age and 
the state of health. Dr. Dukes gives the following table 
of the amount of work and sleep desirable for boys at 
various ages : 

Hours of Hours of 

Ages. Work. Sleep. 

20 



Nursery 



Infant School 



Primary School 



Secondary 
School and 
University 



From to f 

i 

2 

3 

4 
5 
6 

7 



From 



From 



9 

M 10 

12 
From 14 

M 18 

19 

21 



9 

10 
12 
14 
16 
18 
19 
21 
23 










1 

H 

2 
2i 

3 
4 

5 
6 

7 



18 
17 
16 
15 
14 

13* 
13 

12 2 

II 2 
10 



It is noticeable in the above table that Dr. Dukes woulc] 
only require the oldest pupils in a primary school to work 
five hours a day. There can be no doubt that the younger 
pupils work far too long a time at mental tasks. The 
school life as a whole is of too sedentary and too exacting 
a character. Many of the school occupations for the 
younger children should be of a recreative character, and 
a considerable portion of the time should be spent in 
practical pursuits in the open air. Strenuous mental work 



FATIGUE. 217 

should not exceed the limits proposed by Dr. Dukes, 
though such work should not make up the whole of school 
life. 

Especially necessary is it to watch most carefully the 

state of health of the pupils during the 
Precautions periods of rapid growth. The body during 
o?Rapid 6ri * these times needs all the good nourishment 
Growth. and fresh air it can procure to build up its 

growing tissues. Large demands are made 
by growth on the energy of the system, and to make 
further large demands by physical or mental work is to 
burn the candle at both ends. During these periods the 
system may easily be run down, the nervous system de- 
bilitated, the blood become anaemic. Any predisposition 
to weakness of heart, lungs, digestive system, or nerves 
will then show itself in an active and malevolent form 
During these periods of rapid growth the conditions of 
life should be as favourable as possible to health and 
growth. The pupils should have good nourishment, fresh 
air, physical exercise appropriate in amount and in kind, 
and periods of relaxation and recreative rest. G-ood sound 
sleep is essential, and the day's work should be followed by 
an evening of gentle and recreative employment, in the 
open air if weather permits. Intellectual work, if per- 
formed under proper hygienic conditions, is beneficial, but 
care should be taken that it is not excessive and that 
it is not followed by fatigue and exhaustion. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

1. THE natural outcome of organs working beyond their 
power of recuperation and beyond the ability 
to ^ ^ ne S 7 s ^ em t replenish their energy and 
Functional remove the waste products of their activity is 
Power and fatigue, advancing with continued work to 
exhaustion. The exercise of an organ within 
these limits, however, produces other effects of an opposite 
character, effects equally remarkable and general in their 
consequences on the system as a whole. The exercise of 
an organ is followed by an increase in its functional 
capacity. Exercise, in some way, stimulates the cells of 
the organ to develop the power of doing their own special 
work. 

A man who accustoms himself to regular vigorous 
mental labour finds his powers of concentra- 
tion and application growing. He can as 
time goes on put forth more prolonged and 
more vigorous efforts without suffering from fatigue. 
Similar results follow from muscular exercise. Daily work 
with the arms, back, and legs results in the whole apparatus 
of movement becoming larger and stronger. The muscular 
fibres grow harder and firmer and become capable of 
stronger contractions and more prolonged activity. The 
joints become easier and freer, the tendons stouter and 
tougher, and the bones larger and denser. The whole 

218 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OP THE BODY. 219 

mechanism of movement becomes by exercise more effective 
for vigorous work and for resisting fatigue. 

Continued inactivity 011 the other hand reduces effective- 
ness. Mental idleness renders the cerebral centres in- 
capable of strenuous and persistent work for any length of 
time. Attention quickly flags and fatigue readily sets in 
proofs that nervous vitality in these centres is diminished. 
The effects of muscular inactivity are equally obvious. 
The muscles become soft and flabby, the joints stiff; 
movements are executed with less intensity, effectiveness, 
and grace ; active exercise is soon followed by fatigue. 
Total disuse of any organ, indeed, leads to an increasing 
loss of functional power. Inactivity begets degeneration. 

Just as fatigue has its effects on the whole system, so 
exercise not only influences the functional 
General power of an organ, but also modifies the life 

Exercise processes of the whole organism. The general 

effects on the system as a whole are more 
immediately apparent in the case of muscular exercise than 
in that of nervous activity, because the muscles form by far 
the largest proportion of the body both by weight and by 
volume. Any tissue changes taking place in such a large 
mass cannot but have a marked influence on the life 
and functional activity of every other organ in the body. 

The general effects of muscular exercise are most readily 
realised by contrasting one who lives a sedentary life with 
one living an active physical life. In the case of the 
former there is a general tendency to poor physique, though 
the actual result in the case of individuals is not the same. 
People differ in their power of adapting themselves to 
physical conditions. The tendency to poor physique is, 
however, the normal result of a sedentary life. The blood 
tends to become poor in quality and fouled with impurities, 
and this state of the blood is reflected in the impaired 



220 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

vitality of all the tissues. The beat of the heart becomes 
feeble and irregular, the chest flat, the appetite poor, the 
muscular frame soft and flabby, the kidneys and liver weak 
and irregular in their action. Vigorous exercise quickly 
induces breathlessiiess, perspiration, and palpitation, and 
prolonged work brings on fatigue. Mental life, too, is 
affected. Headache, languor, irritability, want of control, 
and diminished power of strenuous and persistent intel- 
lectual labour show that the nervous system is as reduced 
in vitality as is the muscular. Recuperation after fatigue 
or exhaustion becomes increasingly slow. Both nerve cells 
and muscular fibres seem to have less vitality. Their life 
processes go on less vigorously, and this shows itself in a 
lowered tone in nerve and muscle, and in a feebler power 
of recuperation. Continued physical inactivity, evidently, 
results in disorders as general and as marked as those that 
follow exhausting work. 

In almost every particular the physique of the man 
engaged in active physical labour differs from this. The 
blood is richer and purer, the heart stronger and less liable 
to irregular action, the chest broader and deeper, the 
appetite keener, kidney and liver troubles less frequent, 
the muscular frame larger and firmer, and continued 
physical work is carried on with greater power of endur- 
ance. Recuperative power after illness, fatigue, or exhaus- 
tion is more vigorous, and this shows that vitality of the 
cells of the tissues is more intense and that the living sub- 
stance of nerve and muscle has greater powers of recon- 
struction and elaboration. 

A life of considerable physical activity seems, then, 
essential to good physical vitality. One would be led to 
expect this from a consideration of the body as a living 
machine made up of parts functioning in relation to each 
other. The life of the body as a whole must be suited to 



EXERCISE AND GfKOWTH OF THE BODY. 221 

its structure, and the large proportion of muscle it con- 
tains would seem to indicate that that life should be, in a 
large measure, a physical one. Within limits, it is true, 
the body has the power of adapting itself to changing 
circumstances. A reduction in the amount of physical 
exercise and an increase in mental labour can, within 
due limits, be endured without disorder of a serious or 
permanent nature ensuing. The system, however, seems 
incapable of adapting itself to a life of almost total 
physical inactivity. The mass of muscle, under such cir- 
cumstances, hangs on the system like a drag, and the 
physical disorders that follow its inactivity emphasise its 
demand for exercise. Every organ responds up to a cer- 
tain point to the needs of the system as a whole, and the 
heart, lungs, digestive and excretory systems are adapted 
to supply the needs of a nervous and muscular system 
capable of doing certain work. If the demands made 
by either the nervous or the muscular system be exces- 
sively large or unduly small, the whole machine is thrown 
out of gear. The muscular system may, by excessive 
work, make demands on heart, lungs, and excretory organs 
greater than they can adapt themselves to, and breathless- 
ness, fatigued and strained heart, or general fatigue and 
exhaustion follow. On the other hand, by inactivity the 
response of the heart, lungs, and excretory system may be 
so reduced that the activity of these organs is not sufficient 
to serve the rest of the system, and disorders ensue. 

2. The effects of exercise on functional activity and on 

health generally are entirely due to altered 

The Effect nutrition. Exercise not only increases the 

onJhit^t" 6 nutritive changes going on between living 

Changes. substance and the blood, but it alters their 

nature, so that tissue of a different character 

is elaborated during activity from that constructed during 



222 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

rest. Any organ that is in functional activity stimulates 
the nerve centre of organic life in such a way that the 
arteries supplying the organ with blood relax, the heart 
beat is increased, and respiration becomes more frequent 
and deeper; the amount of such response of course de- 
pending on the extent of the activity. Consequently, during 
activity an organ is supplied with blood in greater quan- 
tities and more oxygenated than when it is at rest. The 
increased circulation, too, persists for some time after 
activity ceases, so that recuperation can more thoroughly 
take place. 1 

The increased flow* of highly oxygenated blood to the 

working tissues during and after activity 

Effect on necessarily results in more active nutritive 

th .e Nutrition changes. Tissue elaboration proceeds more 

of Working 

Tissues. rapidly. What is ot greater importance, 

however, is that it is of a different character 
from that which obtains when the organ is at rest. During 
rest there is a tendency for the cells of the tissues to trans- 
form the nutriment of the blood into by-products of the 
nature of reserve foods such as glycogen and fats. 1 It is 
well known, for example, how an inactive life tends to the 
accumulation of fats in and about all the organs. The 
cells when not regularly performing their own special 
function, revert to the general type of cell that merely 
feeds and stores food, but does not elaborate that special 
form of living substance necessary for the performance of 
a special function. 

When actively functioning, however, the cells build 
up the material used in supplying the energy for their 
special form of activity. Muscle fibres elaborate real 
contractile muscular substance, and nerve cells real 

1 Vide Chapter VI., 7. 3 Vide Chapter VI., 5. 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 223 

excitatory nervous substance. The cells are stimulated 
to this special form of metabolism by their own activity. 
Hence, active functioning leads to the increase of functional 
power. 

It can now be seen how a change from disuse to regular 
activity of an organ is followed by very marked changes in 
that organ. During disuse the cells degenerate, their special 
functional vitality is reduced, they are more prone to 
fatigue, and have a diminished power of recuperation. 
Degeneration, for example, is commonly observed when a 
man after a life of intellectual labour retires to spend his 
remaining years in peaceful rest. Before long nervous de- 
generation frequently sets in, and is followed by disorders 
such as paralysis and softening of the brain. When a change 
is made from inactive to active life the reserve substances are 
used up, but they are not lost. They are transformed into 
real muscular and nervous substance. The cells gain in 
functional power, they are capable of more strenuous and 
prolonged activity, and have an increased power of recu- 
peration. The functional power of an organ, then, can only 
be maintained and developed by the continued exercise of 
that organ. 

The effects of exercise on the system generally are simi- 
larly due to more active nutritive changes of 
General a general character consequent on increased 

OT 6 anic n ^ circulation and respiration. Since both heart 
System. and lungs are stimulated by exercise, the cir- 

culation through the whole" system is more 
vigorous and the blood more oxygenated. Hence the 
nutritive changes throughout the whole of the tissues 
nerves, muscles, and glands proceed more intensely during 
exercise than during rest. Life throughout the whole 
system is lived at a more rapid rate. There is a greater 
general demand for nutrition. Reserve materials are 



224 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

freely drawn on, and the appetite is improved, and this 
simply means that the system is ready and willing to 
absorb more nutrition. In spite of the reduction of reserve 
substances the weight of the body is increased, because the 
body as a wnole is living a more vigorous nutritive life. 
Every organ thus benefits, and the vitality of the whole 
system is improved. 

Besides the increase in nutritive changes there is a 
greater activity in the excretory organs. The increased 
circulation through skin, kidneys, and lungs improves the 
excretory activity of these organs. Moreover, through 
the organic centre, exercise stimulates the action of these 
organs. But just as exercise results in an altered nutrition, 
so it changes the character of the waste products formed. 
The cells during activity are living not only a more rapid 
life but a changed life, and this is seen in the formation of 
different waste products as well as in the elaboration of a 
different kind of tissue. Fats and glycogen contain an 
extremely large proportion of hydrogen and carbon, and, 
when reduced, form carbonic acid and water with a great 
evolution of heat. These products are removed by the 
lungs and skin. Hence a man leading a sedentary life, 
with a strong tendency to the accumulation of waste 
products, finds that vigorous exercise soon affects his 
breathing, makes him perspire, and renders him uncom- 
fortably warm. One living an active physical life, how- 
ever, keeps reserve substances at a minimum, and the life 
processes of the cells being different in character, breath- 
lessness, fatigue, and uncomfortable perspiring do not so 
readily appear. 

The total result of the improved action of the skin, 
lungs, and kidneys is to purify the blood. All the tissues, 
and especially the nervous tissues, feel the beneficial results. 
Mental life becomes brighter and more elastic. Languor 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 225 

and lassitude disappear. Fatigue is more easily resisted, 
and both body and mind are invigorated. 

3. A sedentary life, then, means that, through the relative 

inactivity of circulation, respiration, diges- 
Yatigue * tion, and excretion, the life processes of the 

whole system proceed at a lower pitch. In- 
dolence, physical or mental, begets the seeds of disease. 
Exercise stimulates these organic processes, and so long as 
the heart, lungs, digestive and excretory organs can meet 
the demands of a vigorously active system, the whole 
system benefits by the increased life. The body lives the 
best and healthiest life and develops most during the time 
of growth if brain and muscle are exercised to the limit 
which their powers can bear, and at which the system as a 
whole responds to their organic demands. For full de- 
velopment the need of unrelenting activity of every power 
presses upon us from the cradle onward. 

But if this activity be too great or too long continued 
temporary injury results, and if the strain be still further 
prolonged this becomes permanent. Fatigue and ex- 
haustion indicate that work is carried beyond the point 
at which work benefits the body. Tissues exhausted of 
their energy need to be built up again, and may never 
thoroughly recover their lost vitality and power of recu- 
peration. There always remains a tendency to break down 
more readily under strain in the future. Fatigue is only 
temporary ; rest, fresh air, and nutrition speedily remove 
it. Exhaustion tends to become a permanent injury. 

Breathlessness is one sign that physical activity is 
being carried beyond the limits of safety. In breathless- 
ness heart and lungs are being excited to the limit of their 
capacity in bringing air and blood together in the lungs. 
When breathlessness sets in rest should be taken or serious 
injury may result. 

PHY. ED. 15 



226 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OP THE BODY. 

4. In active physical life a greater quantity of food and 
oxygen is capable of being absorbed into the 
Measured by svs tem and built into the tissues than in a 
Increase of sedentary life. Hence, besides an increase in 
Weight and functional capacity and organic vitality, an 
active life brings an increase in weight. In- 
crease in weight may be taken as a rough measure of the 
vitality of the organism. Growth, however, though pro- 
moted by nutrition and exercise, is an innate power of the 
organism during a period of life, a power that differs in 
individuals. Some people are destined by nature to be tall 
and well built ; others to be of small stature and weight. 
Yet it is well to know the average rate of growth in 
order that variations from it may be explained by re- 
ference either to innate capacity or to conditions of life. 

Since increase in weight and in stature is in some degree 
a rough measure of the vitality of the system it may be 
taken as a criterion of health during the growing period. 
But stature is primarily dependent on a lengthening of 
the bony structure, and after all only gives one dimension, 
while the body is increasing in three. Increase of weight, 
then, furnishes the best indication of development. 

Growth, as measured by stature and weight, proceeds 
rapidly from birth to the age of twenty-five and continues 
but very slightly to thirty-five or even forty. It is not, 
however, regular from year to year, or from month to 
month. Variation even occurs from day to night. Statis- 
tics show that from August to December is the period of 
greatest increase of weight, though this may be explained 
as coming after a period of active outdoor life in summer 
and autumn. Sunshine, too, has beneficial effects on 
vitality. Stature, on the other hand, is increased most 
rapidly from the middle of April to the middle of August. 
A similar divergence is noticed when increases of weight 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 227 

and stature during the day and night are compared. " The 
various and careful observations of Camerer show that a 
child of ten years is 700 grammes lighter and 2 cms. taller 
in the morning after a night's rest, and during the day it 
is losing in stature and gaining in weight." 1 Food, sun- 
shine and activity promote vitality ; repose in a position 
in which the body presses most lightly on the growing 
tissues seems to be the condition most favourable to in- 
crease in stature. 

The most important irregularities in increase both of 

stature and of weight are those that obtain 

Normal at certain times in periods of growth from 

Wei^htTand birth to twenty-five. The accompanying 

Stature. diagram (Fig. 9), constructed from statistics 

obtained by Eoberts from observations on 

the general population of Great Britain, shows the average 

or normal rate of increase in stature and weight for both 

sexes from birth to the age of twenty-five. 

" Glancing at the curve for males it is seen that for the 
first year of life increase in weight is rapid. This is fol- 
lowed by a period of slower increase up to seven years of 
age. From here the weight increases again more rapidly up 
to sixteen years, with a maximum rate between sixteen and 
seventeen years. The rate then falls to twenty-five years, 
and from that time on, if the curve were continued up to 
fifty years, the increase would be slight although con- 
tinuous." 2 

The curves for females are very similar to those for 
males, though showing less absolute gain on the whole 
than in the case of males. Especially is this similarity 
marked up to the age of about ten or eleven. Then, after 
a period of considerable divergence, the curves finally show 

1 Donaldson, The Growth of the Brain, p. 83. 

2 Ibid., p. 52. 



140 




30 



Fig. 9. HEIGHT AND WEIGHT CURVES. Donaldson The Growth of the Brain. 
(Scott.) 

228 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 229 

the female at maturity some twenty-five pounds behind 
the male in weight and some four inches less in stature. 
At about the age of eleven the girl begins rapidly to 
increase in stature and then in weight, while the boy 
still maintains the same steady increase that prevailed 
from the end of the first year. At about the age of 
twelve the girl outstrips the boy and continues her rapid 
increase until about sixteen years of age. From twelve 
until sixteen, indeed, the average girl is both heavier and 
slightly taller than the average boy of the same age. After 
sixteen comes for girls a period of steady though greatly 
diminished increase until maturity is reached. The period 
of rapid increase for boys does not begin until a year or 
two later than that for girls. When, however, the period 
does arrive the increase is both greater and longer con- 
tinued, and although from twelve to sixteen years of age 
girls are generally heavier and taller than boys, yet at 
sixteen, so rapidly are the boys gaining, the girls are 
outstripped, and the boys gain the foremost place, 
and they continue to improve their position onward to 
maturity. 

Growth is a sign of organic vitality, and the power of 
growth is innate. It may, however, be 
Conditions of hindered or promoted by the conditions of 
Growth. ^ e< r ^ ne conditions of life then will show 

their traces in the weight and stature of the 
growing child. Food, fresh air, and appropriate exercise 
with periods of rest promote health and growth ; under 
these conditions the weight and stature of the child should 
attain their fullest capacity. On the other hand, chronic 
conditions of fatigue and exhaustion, food poor in quality 
or small in quantity, foul air, poor blood, weak digestion, 
all hinder growth. The natural capacity for growth under 
these conditions receives a check, and the body never attains 



230 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 



59 
58 
57 
56 
55 
54 
53 



i;: 



49 
48 
47 



HEIGHT CURVES. 



s 



10 II 12 13 



Fig. 10. HEIGHT CURVES. Mark Educational Theories in England. 
(Sonnenschein.) 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 231 



WEIGHT CURVES. 



90 
87 
84 
81 
78 
75 
72 

1., 



60 



57 



54 



v/ 






8 9 10 II 12 13 
AGES 

Fig. 10 A. WEIGHT CURVES. Mark Educational Theories in England. 
(Sonnenschein.) 



232 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

the standard of perfection marked out for it by its innate 
constitution and power of growth. 

Careful observations on growing children confirm the 
above principle. During serious illness increase of stature 
ceases, whilst weight actually diminishes, 1 though these 
may be more than counterbalanced by the rapid increases 
during convalescence. The underfed or badly fed children 
of our sunless and foul-aired slums are as a class small in 
stature and below the average weight for the country. On 
the other hand, the public school boy, who is well nourished 
and whose life includes plenty of exercise in the fresh air, is 
above the average stature and weight for the country, and 
far beyond those of the average youth of our factory towns 
of the North (see Figs. 10 and 10A). 

The period of rapid growth, from twelve to sixteen 
for girls, and from fourteen to eighteen for boys, is a 
time when great care is needed. At this time of life 
boys and girls have a tendency to outgrow their strength, 
a state of fatigue may easily become chronic, and any 
tendency to weakness of heart, lungs, nerves, and digestive 
organs may easily become accentuated and serious mischief 
result. Physical exercise or mental work during this 
period should never be so great as to strain the system. 
Gentle exercise should be freely taken, and with fresh air 
and good nourishment this period of stress will be passed 
without mischief resulting. 

Seeing how important weight and stature are as indica- 
tions of healthy growth it is important that 
Measurement parents, teachers, and school doctors should 
and Stature. periodically measure their children in these 
respects. The weight and stature of each 
child should be taken on entering school and with strict 

1 See Donaldson, The Growth of the Brain, Fig. 11, p. 57. 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH- OF THE BODY. 233 

regularity every six months after. Increase of weight, 
though absolutely less or greater in any particular case, 
should in the main follow the curve of increase for 
healthy boyhood and girlhood. Any marked or sudden 
stoppage or diminution of increase is a sign that some- 
thing is interfering with the general nutrition of the 
system. These effects may be the results of insufficient 
food or of malnutrition. Improper food, bad teeth, or 
disordered digestion as well as insufficient food may 
cause a falling off of weight. Overwork, either physical 
or mental, insufficient sleep, want of exercise, or positive 
weakness or disease may also result in a falling off of 
weight or stature. 

Equally important signs of vitality are the general 
demeanour and the attitude in walking, standing, and 
sitting. Vitality shows itself in a bright, happy, and 
energetic mental and physical life. Energetic life is the 
normal condition of the healthy child. Disinclination to 
do anything vigorously, moping, irritability of temper, 
unhealthy colour, want of appetite, stooping when 
walking, bending forward in sitting are symptoms of 
weakness. 

5. Since the effects of physical exercise on the system 
as a whole depend on the stimulus it gives 
Physical to the action of the heart, lungs, and skin, 

H^alth^ ai the amoim t of benefit resulting will be 
proportional to the increase in activity of 
these organs, provided that the exercise does not result 
in too great fatigue either general or local. Speaking 
generally, the heart, lungs, and skin are stimulated in 
proportion to the rate at which energy is expended. The 
more quickly bodily energy is expended the more rapidly 
is tissue broken down, and the more are the centres of 
organic life in the bull) driven to excite the heart, lungs, 



234 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

and skin to increased action. It follows then that, 
if physical exercise is to produce its most beneficial 
effects on health and functional capacity, it must be 
sufficiently vigorous and prolonged to influence appreci- 
ably the action of the heart, lungs, and skin, though it 
should not be of such a nature as either to exhaust 
the tissues engaged in movement, or to fatigue the 
heart by compelling it to do more work than its strength 
can bear. 

Groups of large muscles can, of course, do more work, 

and do it more easily and rapidly, than 
Exercises that groups of small muscles. When the large 
Systera muscles of the legs, thighs, and body are 

generally. doing active work the effect on the system 

generally is much more pronounced than 
when only small muscles, like those of the hand or arm, are 
used. Climbing a hill, running upstairs, wrestling, playing 
football, running races, quickly induce breathlessness and 
perspiration, simply because energy is being rapidly 
expended in doing work. But, as many large muscles 
are in action, the work is done easily and without 
fatigue to the muscular and nervous tissues engaged in it. 
On the other hand, the muscles of the hand or arm, work 
they never so vigorously, are fatigued long before respira- 
tion and circulation are sensibly affected. The smaller the 
group of muscles brought into play the more violently 
and strenuously must they work to produce the same 
general effect as many and large muscles working easily 
and steadily. It follows then, that such games as 
football, hockey, and fives, exercises such as running, 
rapid walking, swimming, and skipping, contests such 
as wrestling, are more beneficial to general health and 
vigour if judiciously pursued than those that employ 
few muscles. 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OP THE BODY. 235 

The heart and the lungs, being stimulated to increased 
activity, share in the benefits obtained from 
Exercises that exercise. Not only do they share in the 
^ g enera l increase of vigour, but they are 
strengthened in their functional power by 
the increased work they are called on to do. 

The muscles of the heart become larger, firmer, capable 
of stronger contractions and more resistant to fatigue, and 
they gain increased power of recuperation. Benefit to the 
heart will result from exercise so long as the increased 
activity does not lead to heart fatigue or exhaustion. Long 
continued or violent physical exertion may strain the 
heart, and permanent weakness of that organ may follow. 
Fatigue of the heart, gradually approximating to exhaus- 
tion, is always a possible risk in vigorous and prolonged 
physical exercise, especially if such exercise be taken with- 
out preparatory training, or in sudden violent spurts. A 
holiday spent in mountain climbing, after a year's sedentary 
life, finds the heart little prepared to withstand the strain 
involved in climbing steep slopes. The heart quickly falls 
into a state of chronic fatigue and requires very prolonged 
rest for its recovery. Before violent exercise, like football 
and running and wrestling, is indulged in, the heart should 
be gradually strengthened by regular exercise increasing in 
amount and vigour. 

Certain exercises are peculiarly apt to place a very con- 
siderable strain on the heart and larger arteries. Sudden 
violent movements, like many of those in wrestling or in 
lifting weights, require a firm and rigid body, in order 
that the arms may be used to the utmost advantage. 
The necessary rigidity of the bodily frame is obtained by 
filling the lungs with air and forcibly holding the breath. 
This action places the heart and great blood-vessels in the 
chest under considerable pressure. The heart has not only 



236 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

to force the blood against the normal pressure of the 
system, but also against the added pressure of the lungs 
on the large arteries and veins. This tendency to stop 
circulation impels the heart by reflex action to violent 
efforts to restore it, and strain and weakening may result. 
That a violent and physical effort of this kind does seriously 
affect circulation is evident from the swollen veins in the 
face and neck that accompany such exertion, the flow of 
blood from the head into the great veins of the chest being 
checked. During physical exercise, then, it is well that 
breathing should proceed freely, naturally, and as regularly 
as possible. Bursts of extreme violence should be avoided 
and holding the breath discouraged. Breathlessness should 
be a warning that rest is needed. 

It is necessary, too, to emphasise the importance of rest 
in developing a strong heart action. Activity, followed by 
rest, is the golden rule of development. But the heart 
must always be active. It can never secure complete 
repose. Relative rest only is possible through the 
diminished beating that obtains during sleep and when 
the body is in a resting position. Resting the body, by 
sitting or lying down, rests the heart, and gives it a chance 
to recuperate its strength. Persons whose hearts are weak 
should never indulge in violent exercise. Moderate exer- 
cise, with many opportunities for rest, however, is good for 
them, as it will gradually strengthen the heart, and render 
it more capable of bearing the strain of an active life. 

Chest capacity is an important factor in healthy life, 
and is especially necessary to vigorous and 

Exercises that prolonged physical activity. 1 A football 
develop the 11 j -,-, , 

Chest. player plays and a runner runs with his 

lungs and his heart as much as with his legs 
and body. If a man has good chest capacity and a strong 
1 See Chapter VI., p. 8. 



EXEBCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 237 

and sound heart he is capable of greater and more pro- 
longed exertion than if his lungs are small and his heart is 
feeble. 

The lungs may, by appropriate exercise, be made larger 
and more capable of performing their function of gaseous 
exchange. In ordinary breathing the whole of the air cells 
of the lungs are not used, and even those used are not 
expanded to their fullest extent. Full expansion of all the 
air cells only occurs during extraordinary breathing, when 
the lungs are filled to their utmost capacity by the full 
action of the diaphragm and the muscles of the chest and 
shoulders . It is , then, by the encouragement of extraordinary 
breathing that the capacity of the chest will be enlarged. 
When all the air cells are expanded to their fullest extent 
the walls of the chest are thrust out with greatly increased 
pressure. Occasional deep breathing, however, can effect 
little. The muscular and bony elements in the chest walls 
will only gradually adapt themselves to stresses and strains 
if the pressure be regularly and constantly applied. The 
most opportune time for developing chest capacity is 
when the body is growing. The muscles and bones are 
then growing and are more pliable, and the chest capacity 
under such conditions can be rapidly improved by appro- 
priate means to the great benefit of health and growth. 

Since breathing is, to some extent, under the control 
of the will, direct means can be adopted to 
Deep develop chest capacity by deep breathing 

Exercise? exercises. The exercises should aim at ex- 
panding the lower part of the chest where 
the cross-section is the greatest. Hence, the exercises 
should mainly bring into play the diaphragm and the 
muscles of the lower ribs. Shoulder breathing, which 
expands the narrow upper part of the chest, should be 
discouraged. 



238 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

Besides aiding the expansion of the chest, breathing exer- 
cises should also induce the habit of correct breathing- 
through the nose, so that the breath will be warmed and 
the air purified in its passage through the nasal channels. 
Breathing through the mouth is apt to cause serious throat 
and lung troubles. Frequently, mouth breathing is due to 
growths, called adenoids, in the nasal passage at the back of 
the throat. Sufferers from adenoids may easily be recognised 
by the undeveloped nose and the open mouth, which give 
the face a somewhat vacant expression, and by deafness, 
which frequently accompanies adenoids. A very simple 
operation is necessary to remove them. 

Formal breathing exercises, however, are very artificial 

in character, and should quickly advance to 
Exercises that exercises in which the pupils are taught how 
Control f th ^ con ^ r l ^ ne expenditure of breath in such 
Breath. occupations as singing, reciting, walking, 

running, jumping, and climbing. In all 
these occupations, and especially in singing and running, 
the lungs require to be filled to their utmost capacity and 
the expiration of air controlled in such a way that words 
can be uttered sweetly, softly, and steadily in the case of 
singing, and that breathlessness is not induced in the case 
of running. Singing, indeed, is a great aid to the growth 
of the chest, as are all occupations that require the lungs 
to be filled to their utmost capacity. Thus, instead of 
taking formal breathing exercises at odd moments during 
the day, it is a more interesting and valuable occupation 
to arrive at the same result by means of voice-training 
exercises, which, while expanding the chest, are at the 
same time training the voice. The same principle should 
hold in the physical exercises in the school yard or 
gymnasium. Deep breathing should always be combined 
with walking or running exercises, so that breathing is 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 239 

not practised in vacua, but in connexion with some definite 
occupation. 

The attitude of the body in standing, sitting, walking, 
and running is an important element in 
framing a f r effective breathing. The body should be 
Correct held in such a way as to free the action of 

Attitude in ^ e chest and give the diaphragm and ribs 
full play. Stooping attitudes, with the 
shoulders bent forward and the abdomen pressing on 
the diaphragm, hinder the downward movement of the 
diaphragm and the upward and outward movement of 
the chest and walls. Hence, exercises for developing 
an upright carriage in sitting, standing, walking, and 
running are of great importance. Such exercises should 
strengthen the muscles of the back and shoulders by 
movements that involve an upright carriage, or that bend 
the body backwards and bring the shoulders as far back as 
possible. Raising and lowering the body on the toes with 
the hands on the hips and the elbows forced back, arm 
exercises that force the arms slowly behind the back, and 
other exercises of a similar character are good for this 
purpose. Continued stooping and sitting in desks tend to 
make habitual those attitudes that hinder free breathing. 
Especially, then, is it necessary to insist on erect attitudes 
in writing and sitting, and to counteract the tendency to 
round shoulders and slouching induced by work in desks by 
games and exercises that will develop the lungs, straighten 
the figure, and hold the shoulders in a proper position. 

Chest capacity, however, can be increased by means less 
formal and artificial than these. Any phy- 

Games that sicsil work that involves a considerable ex- 
develop the . _ 
Chest. penditure ot energy in a short time afreets 

breathing. The more violent the exercise 
the more the lungs are stimulated to deep breathing. 



240 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

Hence, running, jumping, rapid walking, skipping, wrest- 
ling, football, fives, liill-climbiiig, and any other exer- 
cise the vigorous performance of which is likely to 
induce breathlessness will develop chest capacity if regu- 
larly and actively pursued. Mere arm exercises, on the 
other hand, are not so beneficial, since, as the muscles 
of the arm are small, they must work very violently 
indeed before breathing is affected. Such exercises, 
however, do strengthen the shoulder muscles, and when 
they are of the right kind they tend to develop an upright 
carriage. 

In the more violent games and exercises, such as running, 
football, and walking, breathing shows a tendency to get 
out of control. The breathing is apt to become shallow 
and rapid instead of deep and slow. The pupils should 
be shown how to take in breath and how to control its 
expiration when engaged in violent exercise like running. 
Inspiration should be deep, full, and slow, and expiration 
should let the air escape gradually. Panting should, if 
possible, be prevented. 

In watching the physical development of the pupils it 
is of great importance to observe the growth 
Measurement ^ ^ e chest. Opportunities should be taken 
when the pupils are stripped for swimming 
and bathing, or during and after physical exercises, to 
examine the shape and size of their chests. When the 
chest is poor in shape and capacity, special exercise* 
should be given. Regular chest measurements should 
be taken, so that not only is the physical development 
of the pupils tested by the increase in weight and sta- 
ture, but also by the increase in their power of deep 
breathing. 

6. Up to the present we have had mainly before us 
the physiological aspect of exercise. Physical exercise, 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 241 

however, is not merely a matter of physiological impor- 
tance. Almost any form of exercise, if 
Educative pursued sufficiently vigorously and regularly, 
Ph^ical wil1 P romote health and strength, and, if 

Pursuits. these qualities alone constituted the end in 

view, then the system of physical training 
that was founded on a thorough knowledge of the structure 
of the body, the functions of the various organs, and the 
conditions of their development would be the best. Such 
a system would be suited to every type of character and to 
every nationality, for only physiological, and not mental, 
grounds need be considered. Physical education, however, 
aims not only at a physical but at a mental result. Besides 
training health and strength, it seeks to train skill and 
those aspects of intelligence and character that are neces- 
sary to the effective performance of the practical activities 
of life. 1 Mere health and strength we seek in our beasts 
of burden ; skill in our acrobats and gymnasts ; but the 
essentially human qualities required in the practical 
activities of life are intelligence, courage, hardihood, 
resolution, the personal virtues of self-reliance, self- 
confidence, and self-respect, and those qualities needed in 
free, willing, and earnest co-operation and competition with 
one's fellows. 

In any comprehensive system of physical training, then, 

there must be found : 

Health^" 1 W Factors that make for health and 

Strength, strength. 

Skill, Intelli- (2) Factors that make for skill. 
Character (^) Factors requiring the continuous play 

of intelligence. 

(4) Factors of danger and hardship. 

(5) Personal and social factors, by which the strength, 

1 See Chapter II. , 5. 
PHY. ED. 16 



242 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

skill, intelligence, and spirit of a pupil or body of pupils 
are pitted in friendly, though earnest, rivalry against the 
strength, skill, intelligence, and spirit of another pupil or 
body of pupils. 

A true system, moreover, should be founded on the 

natural impulses of youth, and appeal to 

should be based man y sides f human nature the practical, 

on the Natural individual, social, and aesthetic. The best 

Impulses of practical pursuits for school are those that 
the Young. . 

approach most nearly in character, and so 

lead naturally . into, the occupations, recreative or other- 
wise, of real life. Such occupations have the most meaning, 
and appeal to the young as being of real value, just because 
they are based on so many fundamental impulses of human 
nature. They are not artificial and peculiar to school life, 
invented and bolstered up by the ingenuity of one who 
regards life as made up of separate and independent com- 
partments, and is blind to the evils that must follow if life, 
either in school or in the world at large, is viewed piece- 
meal instead of as a whole. 

Practical pursuits that appeal to many spontaneous 
impulses of the young are just those that will maintain 
their interest and value throughout a great part of life, 
though of course they should advance in form as the skill 
and interests of the youth develop. Interests and habits 
once formed by such school pursuits can continue, out of 
school and after school days are over, to influence the 
development of the youth physically, intellectually, socially, 
and aesthetically. Indeed, it may truly be said that a 
school exercise is valuable in its bearing on life's activities 
just according to the number and the importance of the 
aspects of human nature to which it appeals. An exercise 
that trains strength and skill is of greater value and has a 
stronger hold on life than one that merely trains strength. 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 243 

One that further appeals to intelligence, aesthetic taste, or 
the competitive and co-operative spirit has still further 
value. Such an exercise is anchored by many chains to 
the life of the boy and girl, and will continue to hold its 
place and influence the life of the man and woman long 
after artificially devised forms of activity have ceased to 
interest. The practical pursuits of school, then, should 
do more than merely amuse or furnish exercise. They 
should be of such a character as to be capable of develop- 
ing into forms of skill and interests which are of value in 
after life. But it must be remembered that the recreative 
side of future life has claims to be considered as well as 
the utilitarian, and a comprehensive education will secure 
that the recreation of the man and woman benefits the 
body and mind. 

7. Several systems of physical training have grown up in 

various countries, but for purposes of dis- 

Systems of cussion they can all be brought under one 

Training. or otner ^ ^ ie three main types represented 

by Swedish drill, German gymnastics, and 

English games. 

Swedish drill consists largely of exercises of the arms, 

body, and legs without apparatus. The 
Swedish Drill. .-. n -i -n -i i ^ 

pupils are usually drilled in large classes, 

and the movements are performed at the word of command. 
The exercises are so devised as to develop the muscular 
frame, improve the health, and assist physical development 
generally. Considerable ingenuity has been exercised in 
their invention, and their advocates claim that they are 
based on a thorough knowledge of anatomy and physi- 
ology. That they are ingenious, methodical, and systematic 
everyone who knows them must admit. These qualities, 
indeed, are apt to carry away the mind and to induce an 
admiration and enthusiasm for them that render one blind 



244 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

to those qualities that should be present in every compre- 
hensive scheme of physical training, but are absent from 
Swedish drill. Method, indeed, so far vitiates the whole 
course of exercises and the procedure on which they are 
conducted, that practically nothing is left to the initiative 
and originality of the pupils. 

German gymnastics generally consist of exercises that 
are performed with apparatus in a gym- 
GyimSstics nasium. They include exercises on hori- 
zontal and parallel bars and vaulting horse, 
exercises with Indian clubs and dumb-bells, and such 
contests as fencing and wrestling. Some of these are per- 
formed individually ; others by the pupils in classes at the 
word of command. 

English games hardly need description. They mostly 
involve running, catching, and struggling 
ames. movemen ^ s S ome are played with a ball, 
some without. Some need implements and a special 
ground, others can be played in any open space. Unlike 
Swedish drill and German gymnastics, they are not the 
invention of educationists, but have grown up through the 
ages as the common, every-day play of the boys and youths 
of the country. Physiological principles, therefore, have 
not determined their construction, although physiological 
principles are not thereby broken in their pursuit. We 
may gain health and strength from games, although we do 
not play them for that purpose and they were not invented 
with that object. They appeal mainly to the love of 
movement, of strife and struggle, of emulation and rivalry, 
of competition and co-operation, of boyish fun and high 
spirits that are so eminently characteristic of the youth 
of all ages. 

If the principles of physical training that have here 
been insisted on be applied to a comparative examination 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 245 

of the exercises, games, and contests of the three systems, 
very marked and fundamental differences in 
Games, the educational value of the three systems 

Exercise's ""* are repealed. The exercises of Swedish drill 
Compared. mainly develop health and strength, though 
certain elements of skill also enter into them. 
They cultivate the power of quick, smooth, and easy move- 
ment at the word of command. It is obvious, however, 
that they fail to cultivate initiative. The will of the 
pupil is not freely and willingly exercised either for 
personal or for social ends. It is under authority, pas- 
sively submissive or unwillingly dominated. Into these 
exercises also enter 110 continuous play of intelligence 
and no individual or social strife demanding courage, 
endurance, self-denial, self-reliance, and determination. 
Intelligence and character in the conduct of the practical 
affairs of life can in no wise be trained by exercises so 
mechanical and monotonous in their nature. 

In German gymnastics with apparatus, courage, hardi- 
hood, and skill are certainly trained, while into the contests 
of wrestling and fencing, intelligence and spirit enter. 
Fencing and wrestling are thus clearly of greater educative 
value than exercises 011 the horizontal and parallel bars. 
In the latter, once the skill, the ' knack,' is acquired, the 
feat can be performed almost automatically, and tricks on 
the bars differ only in degree from the more simple exer- 
cises with dumb-bells and wands. In fencing and wrestling, 
on the other hand, two intelligences and characters are 
opposed to each other. Automatic skill and strength, 
though factors in the issue, are by themselves useless. 
They are but instruments of which intelligence and char- 
acter have to make use. Each mind has constantly to be 
011 the alert, watchful and observant, and coolness, presence 
of mind and quickness of judgment, determination and 



246 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

self-control often defeat mere strength and automatic 
skill. 

Higher still in the educational scale come social games 
such as football, cricket, hockey, etc. It will be interesting 
to examine for a moment the winter pastime of football 
the Kugby game since for educational purposes, with boys 
at any rate, the Rugby game is distinctly superior to the 
Association. As the game is played in the open air and 
in the damp and cold of winter, the body is hardened to 
inclemencies of the weather. All parts of the body are 
exercised in the various movements of running, scrum- 
maging, tackling, kicking, and throwing, and considerable 
skill is demanded in many of these actions. During the 
game there is a need for continual alertness, keen observa- 
tion of the state of the game, insight into the tactics of the 
opponents ; and a cool head, ready wit, and quick decision 
are great factors in success. Courage, hardihood, and 
resolution are brought into play in tackling and scrum- 
maging, while self-control, self-denial, free, active, and 
unselfish co-operation, a sense of responsibility and of 
honour and sportsmanship are encouraged. 

8. It is evident, then, if school life is to cultivate those 
aspects gf intelligence and character that are 
Physical necessary in the effective performance of the 

fo^Schools practical work of life, that games and con- 
tests, both of an individual and of a social 
character, should form the main element in the course of 
physical training. They should, of course, be suited to 
the strength and skill of the pupils, but they 
Con-tests* 10 should also develop that strength and skill 
along broad and generous lines. The games 
and contests must be so combined as to develop the whole 
body and to train skill in many kinds of movements. The 
little ones should play simple children's games with simple 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 247 

dancing movements accompanied by singing, such as may- 
pole dancing, imitative action songs and recitations, and 
games like 'ring-a-ring of roses.' With children from 
seven to ten years of age running, catching, jumping, 
hopping, and skipping games are valuable. Ball games, 
too, should form part of a course. They develop strength 
in the arms and train skill in throwing with accuracy. In 
all ball games the teacher or instructor should emphasise 
the throwing element. In the upper classes of the school 
these simpler pastimes should advance to games and con- 
tests of a sterner and more vigorous character, such as 
wrestling, boxing, fencing, quoits, football, hockey, fives, 
cricket, and running, jumping and leaping games such as 
leapfrog. 

The pupils should receive instruction in the elements of 
the game in order that the utmost benefit in skill and in 
strength may be obtained from the practice. A game 
regarded as part of the school life is more than mere 
amusement. Though it gives enjoyment and pleasure and 
appeals to many natural impulses, it should be pursued 
strenuously and with a desire to attain as much proficiency 
as possible. Fortunately it is not difficult to get boys to 
take games seriously. They are only too eager to play 
games and to desire to excel in them. It is, indeed, no 
uncommon thing for them to take their sports and games 
too seriously. 

As an example of the kind of instruction that should be 
given, let us consider an afternoon spent on the cricket field. 
The first part of the time should be spent in practice under 
the direct instruction of the teacher. All the pupils should 
take part in throwing, catching, and stopping the ball. 
First there might be practised throwing at the wickets 
from long and short distances, an exercise requiring 
strength, skill, and judgment. Next, catching a skied 



248 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

ball or a hot return, and stopping balls coming quickly 
along the ground or half -volleys could be practised, either 
hand or both hands being used. Such practice will en- 
courage alertness, agility, and steadiness. Then should 
come practice at the wickets. Several pitches and many 
balls should be in use, and all the pupils should take their 
turn in batting, bowling, and fielding. The instructor 
should give directions how to stand and play the ball, and 
how to bowl and field. Practice finished, a game among 
the pupils is organised. Captains are chosen and the 
instructor takes his place as a spectator who may give 
advice and counsel when asked, or who may even give 
directions when occasion demands. The instructor should 
see that the captains take their full share of responsibility 
in directing the game, placing the field, and in encouraging 
and stimulating their teams to do their best. 

Though games should form the main element in physical 
training, yet there is need for exercises of a 
Exercises more formal character. 1 These should be of 

a preparatory nature, to give instruction and 
practice in the movements required in the games and in 
life. The exercises should give practice in walking, run- 
ning, jumping, leaping, and climbing. These are best 
performed in the school yard or in the gymnasium, where 
also such contests as boxing, wrestling, fencing, and tug- of - 
war can be taught and practised. 

Running and walking are too often performed with 
awkwardness of gait and with a slouching carriage. In 
walking the body should be poised firmly but freely 011 the 
hips, so as to be capable of free and easy movement. The 
body should not ' wobble ' to and fro, nor the shoulders 
move up and down in time with the movements of the 
legs. The head should be held erect to give freedom to 
1 See Chapter II., 2 ; Chapter V., 4. 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 249 

breathing, the chest out, the abdomen in, the shoulders 
square to the front and drawn back. The arms should 
swing easily by the side, with the elbows to the rear. 
The movement in walking should be from the haunch, 
and should be free, easy, and springy. The knee should 
be braced back when the foot is supporting the body, 
but should bend easily when the leg is moved from rear 
to front. To secure an elastic and springy movement the 
various joints in the foot, ankle, knee, and hip should be 
used freely and easily. No part of the body should be 
held stiffly. 

In running, the same principles should be exemplified. 
The body should be inclined forward, but the head, chest, 
abdomen, and shoulders should be in the same relative 
positions as in walking. The arms should be raised, the 
fists be clenched and should move backward and forward 
with freedom. The pupils should spring lightly and easily 
from the toes, with the joints in the foot, ankle, knee, and 
hips working quite freely. The feet should be well raised 
from the ground. 

Walking and running exercises should form a part of 
every physical training lesson, and similar instruction and 
practice should be given in jumping, leaping, and climbing. 
The exercises should also include some designed to culti- 
vate grace and ease in attitude and movement. These 
will be largely slow movements of the arms, body, and 
legs in bending and balancing. They should be performed 
to music, and the pupils themselves should sing. Agility 
and alertness will be developed by means of exercises 
quickly and rapidly performed. Lunging movements are 
suitable in this form of exercise. 

9. There is little doubt that the kind of school life 
seen in our modern primary and municipal secondary 
schools is too largely of an indoor character. Practical 



250 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

pursuits, especially those that can be taken in the open 
air, do not form a sufficient part of the 
Organisation school occupations. If school life is to 
for S Games Llfe a * m at S^ v ^ n S a practical training in health, 
and Exercises, strength, skill, and those qualities of intelli- 
gence and character required in practical life, 
then the arrangements of school work need to undergo con- 
siderable modification. Some form of outdoor physical 
exercises should occupy a part of every school day, even 
if the school day for the older pupils has to be lengthened 
for that purpose. All authorities agree that the present 
class-room day for the younger pupils is too long. 

Country excursions should be organised in connexion 
with nature study, physical geography, and 
Excursions history. 1 These excursions should develop 
such intellectual and aesthetic interests in 
country life as will lead the pupils to use the country as 
a means for intellectual and physical recreations in their 
leisure time and after school days are over. Several such 
excursions should take place each year. During a class 
excursion brisk running and walking should be indulged 
in, and the afternoon might well end in half an hour 
spent in running, jumping, and wrestling contests, or in 
some vigorous ball game. 

Holiday times, too, might be made of more use than 
they are at present. In too many cases holi- 
days are merely intervals for loafing, loung- 
ing, and general idleness, which will only 
lead to moral, physical, and mental degeneration. Holiday 
camps for the older pupils are a valuable means for turning 
holidays to an educational use in training physique, charac- 
ter, and country tastes. A spot should be chosen for the 



1 See Welton, Principles of Teaching, Chap. XI., 4 5 Chap. XII., 



5. 



EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 251 

camp that gives free scope for nature study and geographical 
excursions and for roaming, climbing, and swimming. 
Good plain food and hard work should be the rule. Part 
of the day should be spent in outdoor instruction in 
land surveying, carpentry, drawing, painting, nature study, 
and physical geography. Most of these involve excursions 
and constant roaming and rambling. Another part of the 
day should be given over to games and contests. During 
a third part of the day the pupils should be left to their 
own devices to engage in whatever outdoor pursuit takes 
their fancy. Such a regime during a holiday could hardly 
fail to benefit the pupils of our crowded towns both in 
physique and in character. 

If games are to form a real part of the school life 

playing-fields are desirable. Wise education 
Playing-fields authorities would endeavour to provide each 
Playgrounds school with opportunities for using some 

open space during some days of each week. 
In the country access to fields should not be difficult. In 
the towns recreation grounds should be used as fully as 
possible. Most schools have at least playgrounds, though 
in few cases are these used to the best advantage. The 
playground should be in constant use for games or physical 
exercises. There should always be some class using the 
playground, and care should be taken that undue noise is 
not made. Part of the playground should be under cover 
and, if there is no school gymnasium, there should be 
provided in the playground mats for jumping and wrest- 
ling, hurdles and stands for jumping, ladders for climbing, 
and ropes for tug of war. Blank walls in the playground 
should be used for some form of fives. 

Every game and exercise should be carried on strenuously 
and vigorously. No exercise has its full benefit on the 
body unless it appreciably affects breathing and circulation. 



252 EXERCISE AND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 

Hence, though breathlessness should be regarded as a 
warning to rest, the exercises and games 
Dress and should tend towards breathlessness and free 

perspiring. Cleanliness demands that 
special clothing should be used during the 
exercise and that bathing the whole body should follow 
it. Many parents, of course, would prefer to provide the 
special dress themselves. Where parents cannot, or do not, 
provide it the school should lend a dress in the same way 
as it lends books and writing material. Boys should wear 
a simple shirt and knickerbockers. Waistcoat, coat, and 
braces are out of place when free and agile movements are 
wanted. A similar dress with skirt added should be worn 
by girls. After the games and exercises the pupils should 
pass to the dressing-rooms, where they should strip and 
wash. Hot and cold water sponge baths should be sup- 
plied if shower baths cannot be obtained. Brisk and smart 
rubbing with a coarse towel should follow. 

10. Though much can be done by including games, con- 
tests, physical exercises, and other practical 
Physical pursuits in the life of the school, yet the 

Schoo^Life ^ P er i Q( l f l^ 6 after school is equally important 
in training physique and character. Unfor- 
tunately, too many pupils leave school at an age before 
very much permanent good can be done in establishing 
interests, habits, and moral stamina. The ex-pupils are 
left from the age of about fourteen to manhood to drift 
as their inclinations may lead, without any attempt to 
encourage and stimulate them to continue to develop the 
interests and habits formed during school life. Lounging, 
loafing, and feebleness of character are thereby, if not 
encouraged, at least not discouraged. It seems not only 
desirable but necessary to establish some system whereby 
the ex-pupil can continue after school life to reap the 



EXERCISE ND GROWTH OF THE BODY. 253 

benefits to health and character that come from the 
practice of games. Clubs for ex-pupils should be estab- 
lished in connexion with each school, and teachers should 
show great interest in them and give every encouragement 
to them. School patriotism will by such means be greatly 
strengthened and a more powerful tradition maintained 
than at present pervades primary schools. Continuation 
schools should have a strong sports side organised, and this 
would tend to make them more popular institutions than 
they often are at present. The various religious bodies 
would do well to strengthen the games and sports side of 
their social clubs for young men. The authorities in 
charge of the public affairs of our large towns should 
provide recreation grounds, which can be placed at the 
disposal of all clubs of ex-pupils, of the pupils of con- 
tinuation schools, and of the members of religious bodies. 
These grounds could be used during the week days by the 
pupils of the day schools. It is in such ways as these, by 
encouraging educational and social activity, that youths 
from fourteen years onward may be retained under organ- 
ised discipline, greatly to the benefit of the national 
physique and character. 



CHAPTEE IX. 



CLEANLINESS. 

1. THE skin is an important excretory organ for the 

removal of waste products. It has been com- 

The Excre- puted, though with how much accuracy it is 

thTskin m difficult to say, that a greater quantity of 

matter leaves the body through the skin than 

by way of the lungs. However that may be, the amount of 

waste matter exiided through the pores of the skin during 

the course of the day is very considerable, and the foulness 

and odoriferous nature of a badly ventilated living room 

are perhaps due as much to the activity of the skin as 

to that of the lungs. Some idea of the importance of the 

skin as an excretory organ may be formed when it is 

realised that the average number of sweat glands per 

square inch is over two thousand, and in some parts, as for 

example the palm of the hand, reaches three thousand. 

Besides the sweat glands there are in the skin other 

glands that secrete an oily waxy fluid called 

sebum. These sebaceous glands are found in 

connexion with the hairs of the skin, for which the oily 

sebum serves as a natural pomade, besides keeping the 

skin soft and moist. The hairs of the skin are set in long 

narrow pits or follicles, which project downward from the 

surface to the under skin, from the blood-vessels in which 

they obtain their nourishment for growth. Into the neck 

of the hair follicle the sebaceous glands pour the oily 

254 



CLEANLINESS. 255 

fluid, which exudes slowly to the surface of the skin 
through the mouth of the follicle. 

The sebaceous glands are fairly constant in their action, 
but the activity of the sweat glands varies with the con- 
dition of the atmosphere and the state of the body. 
During warm weather perspiration is increased and during 
cold weather it is decreased. Active exercise and mental 
excitement are among the numerous bodily conditions that 
increase the amount of sweat given off. 

The sebum is an oily fluid. The sweat, on the other 

hand, is mostly water, which under normal 
Sweat. . J ,. , , . , 

circumstances evaporates immediately into 

the air or is absorbed by the fibrous substance of the 
clothing. About two per cent, of the sweat, however, consists 
of inorganic salts and organic substances of which sodium 
chloride and fatty acids are the chief. The peculiar smell 
of sweat is due to the volatile fatty acids and to the oily 
sebum. It is largely to the diffusion of these substances 
through the air of a room that the foul odour of a badly 
ventilated living room, of a dormitory in the morning, or 
of a class-room containing many children, is due, though, 
as has been seen, the organic substances passed into the 
air by the breath contribute their share. 

The presence of these organic substances in the air of a 
room is highly detrimental to health. They 
Effect of form an excellent breeding ground for the 

on the 10nS germs of disease, which, stimulated by the 
Atmosphere. warmth and moisture of breathed air, live 
and multiply rapidly on the organic refuse 
of the body diffused through the air or deposited on the 
walls and clothing of the inhabitants. Thus, badly 
ventilated and infrequently washed class-rooms are ad- 
mirable forcing-houses for the propagation of disease 
microbes, and there is no doubt that the rapid spread 



256 CLEANLINESS. 

among children of such infectious diseases as measles and 
scarlet fever is due to large numbers of children being 
brought together in confined spaces favourable to the 
rapid multiplication of germs. Especially is the spread of 
tuberculosis favoured by these conditions. The air of a 
room foul with organic refuse and containing the germs 
of the disease is breathed over and over again by the 
pupils, and the weakly and badly nourished fall victims. 
Since prevention is better than cure the remedy is to be 
sought in cleanliness cleanliness of the air, of the room, 
and of the bodies of the pupils. The first, being a problem 
of considerable magnitude, is perhaps better considered 
in a chapter dealing with ventilation. The cleanliness 
of the person and of the room is now to be discussed. 

2. The walls of a room should be constructed of a 

material that will not facilitate the deposit 
^ ^ r ^ or ^ ie Absorption of organic sub- 
stances diffused through the air of the room. 
The surface of the wall should, moreover, be washable, 
though this quality is not a virtue if only passively con- 
templated. Papered or whitewashed walls are, therefore, 
undesirable. Smooth glazed tiles, polished cement, paint 
or varnish, and washable distempers form good hygienic 
surfaces for the walls. It is, however, advisable to 
wainscot the room to the height of about six feet with 
varnished wood. All rooms require thorough and regular 
cleaning and washing. Disinfectant soap or fluid should 
be used and the rooms thrown open to the air. Fresh 
air and sunlight are excellent piirifiers. 

3. Remembering that excretion from the skin is constant, 

we must look upon the body as being 
wrapped in an invisible mantle of heated 
air, saturated or almost saturated with 
moisture, and permeated with volatile organic substances. 



CLEANLINESS. '257 

There, thus, seem to be some valid grounds for the firm 
belief of the ancient Greeks that it is good to expose the 
skin to the free action of sun and air. It is certainly 
essential to the healthy action of the skin, and conse- 
quently to the general health of the body, that the per- 
spiration should be freely carried away. The necessity for 
clothing, however, does not render this entirely possible. 

One function of the skin is to secure a uniform and 
constant bodily temperature of about 98 F. Heat is being 
constantly produced by the decomposition of tissue, and 
the body is kept at a uniform temperature by the loss of 
heat from the skin. It must be remembered, however, 
that all the heat lost has to be produced by tissue com- 
bustion. If, therefore, owing to low atmospheric tem- 
perature the loss of heat is great, there must be a 
corresponding increase in the production of heat by greater 
tissue decomposition, which will necessitate larger quan- 
tities of food, especially of heat-producing foods. Within 
limits, it is true, the loss of heat can be regulated by the 
reflex relaxation and contraction of the blood-vessels of the 
skin. Yet in climates such as that of England the balance 
of income and loss of heat during the varying seasons of 
the year must be maintained partly by modifications in 
food and exercise, and partly by regulation of the amount 
of clothing to meet the variations of the atmospheric 
temperature. 

The clothing, then, should be of such a nature and so 
worn as to allow perspiration to escape as freely as possible, 
and yet such as not to chill the body. Tight clothing and 
many wraps are not good for health. During summer, 
and especially during vigorous exercise when perspiration 
is freely produced, clothing should be loosely worn. There 
is much to be said for the wearing at these times of a 
simple woollen shirt and loose trousers that give fairly free 
PHY. ED. 17 



258 CLEANLINESS. 

play to the air and yet do not permit of too rapid a loss 
of heat from the skin. The substance of the clothing 
should be permeable to air, absorb moisture without be- 
coming wet, not retain organic substances, and yet be a bad 
conductor of heat. Woollen clothing best satisfies these 
conditions. Cotton and linen material are conductors of 
heat, less permeable to air, and are quickly wetted by the 
perspiration, and so chill the body. The underclothing 
worn during the day should be exposed to the air at night 
to purify it, and the night clothes should for similar 
reasons be thoroughly aired during the day, especially as 
the skin is more active at night than during the daytime. 
Underclothing, too, should be frequently changed, since 
moisture, inorganic salts, and organic impurities tend to 
accumulate in the fibres of the substance. 

4. Although the moisture and some of the fatty acids are 

carried away by the air or absorbed by the 

th^Skhf SS clothing, yet much of the dissolved substance 

of the sweat and the oily fats of the sebum 

are left behind on the skin. This residue, oily in character, 

softens the superficial scales of the outer skin which are 

ready to be cast off, and the whole forms what might well 

be termed the natural dirt of the skin. 

It is very desirable that the dirt of the skin be frequently 
and regularly removed, as it is not only a 
dan S er to the health of tlie individual him- 
self, but also to that of others who are com- 
pelled to be in his society. If allowed to accumulate on 
the skin, the dirt would quickly block the pores of the 
sweat glands and, by interfering with their activity, harm 
the general health of the body. There can be no doubt 
that the skin of an unclean person fails to perform its 
function of cleansing the blood ; the lungs and kidneys are 
then constrained to endeavour to do its work together with 



CLEANLINESS. 259 

their owii. Good health, bright cheerful spirits, unclouded 
intellect, and power of self-control, as has already been 
shown, depend largely on the purity of the blood stream 
which nourishes the cells of the brain. Unless, therefore, 
all the excretory organs thoroughly carry out their part in 
the bodily economy, the imperfectly cleansed blood exercises 
a paralysing effect on the life processes of all the tissues, 
and impairs the vigorous activity of mind and body. 

The constant accumulation of organic substances on the 
skin, moreover, affects the atmosphere of living rooms. 
Organic substances, especially when warmth and moisture 
are present, tend to decompose, and nauseous vapours are 
diffused into the air. Unclean skins mean foul putrid air 
to breathe. It has been pointed out as one of the most 
pleasant results of the regular bathing of children in some 
of the German schools that the air of the class-rooms at 
once became purer and sweeter. Lastly, the organic sub- 
stances left on the skin form excellent feeding grounds for 
vermin and for the propagation of disease germs. Most 
of the skin diseases prevalent among children of a certain 
social class are due solely to uncleanliiiess. 

Cleanliness, then, is essential to health and to vigorous 
work, and frequent and regular washing is 
Bathiiu? ai no ^ O11 ty desirable but a duty to oneself and 
to others. Being oily in character the dirt 
of the skin is not easily removed by pure cold water. The 
most suitable solvent is a combination of hot water and 
soap. The soap forms with the oily substances an emulsion 
which is rapidly washed away by the hot water. Brisk, quick 
rubbing with a rough towel then removes any of the residue 
and scales which are softened by the hot water, and com- 
pletes the thorough cleansing of the skin. Friction with a 
towel, moreover, by increasing the blood supply to the 
skin, promotes the activity of the sweat glands. 



260 CLEANLINESS. 

The whole of the skin should be cleansed daily, and 
the parts exposed to the dirt of the air more frequently. 
The most effective bath for cleansing purposes is the warm 
or hot bath, the water in the former being from 95 to 98 F., 
and in the latter from 98 to 105 F. Bathing in water at 
these temperatures, however, causes a greatly increased 
flow of blood to the skin. Hence, after a warm or hot 
bath there is considerable danger of catching a chill. It is 
advisable, therefore, to take warm baths before retiring at 
night or to follow them by a rapid sponging of the body 
with cold water and brisk friction with a rough towel. 

If the morning bath is preferred and there is much to 
be said for starting the day clean, refreshed, and invigorated 
by a bath and a brisk rub down the cold or tepid bath is 
most suitable. Though not so efficacious for cleansing 
purposes as the warm bath, yet the cold or tepid bath acts 
as a stimulant to the skin, that is, if immersion is followed 
by the warm glow due to the rapid return of the blood to 
the skin. If an after glow is not obtained the temperature 
of the water should be raised, and under no circumstances 
should the body be chilled by a stay of more than a few 
seconds in the cold water. It is claimed that the cold bath, 
by rendering the blood-vessels of the skin more responsive 
to changes of temperature, diminishes the tendency to 
catch chills. 

5. It will hardly have needed the foregoing discussion to 

have convinced educated Englishmen that 

Cleanliness 111 bodily cleanliness is a most desirable virtue. 

Its inculcation, however, is largely a matter 

of home customs and home conveniences. All houses 

should have baths with hot and cold water. But though 

you can lead a horse to the well you cannot make it 

drink, and the presence of baths in houses may be no 

assurance of their daily use. In training young children 



CLEANLINESS. 261 

to a cleanly life lectures and formal instruction in hygiene 
are of small value, especially if set against home customs 
and ingrained habits. The clean Englishman is clean not 
because he knows the scientific reasons for cleanliness for 
it is possible he knows less of the hygiene of the skin than 
the ordinary primary school child, but he keeps himself clean 
from self-respect and a punctilious abhorrence of dirt and 
because he takes a delight in the invigorating and refresh- 
ing * feel ' of a clean body. He has been trained to this 
throughout his youth. Abhorrence of dirt and a pride in a 
clean body were his daily moral food, the tradition of the 
family life into which he was born as truly as into the air 
he breathes. Habits of washing and bathing practised for 
years become as natural as his habits at meals. To create 
such an attitude to cleanliness, to inculcate a hygienic con- 
science, to awaken a repugnance to an unclean body, and to 
train habits of daily washing and bathing should be one 
aim of physical education. 

This aim can only be attained by training the conduct of 
the child and developing his moral and aesthetic feelings. 
Instruction in cleanliness by itself is a sowing of seed 
which will only be choked by the tares and weeds of bad 
tradition and habit. There is no harm in instruction. But 
by itself it is useless, a waste of time which would be more 
wisely spent in the practice of cleanliness. It will do good 
if there is a basis of feeling and habit to be strengthened, 
for then it will give reasons for feelings and habits that 
are there. But it is the end of training, not the beginning, 
the coping stone of the structure, not the foundation stone. 
Two thousand years ago Plato laid it down as a principle 
that the child should be trained, not at first to a know- 
ledge, but to a love, of the beautiful and good, and to 
a hatred of the ugly and bad, so that he " will approve all 
that is beautiful, and enjoying it and absorbing it into his 



262 CLEANLINESS 

soul will grow up in the strength of it and become a good 
and noble man ; whereas all that is ugly he will censure 
and loathe in his very youth, before he is able to apprehend 
a principle; but when the principle comes before him, he who 
is thus nurtured, above all others, will welcome it with the 
recognition due to that which is his own." l 

This principle is as applicable to the English child of 
to-day as to the youth of Ancient Greece. If education 
authorities and teachers are really desirous of inculcating 
cleanly habits, a pride in cleanliness, and an abhorrence of 
dirt, they must give up all hope of salvation through mere 
instruction, and anchor their faith on training the pupils 
by means of a cleanly life. 

6. It may seem out of place for the school to undertake 

this duty, but there is every reason why it 

Training in should. The pupils spend a considerable 

P art ^ ^ e ^ a ^ a ^ scnoo l an ^ * ne uncleanly 

habits of any portion of the scholars are a 
danger and an unpleasantness to the rest. When children 
are compelled to attend school it becomes the manifest 

duty of the authorities to see that the school 
Necessity i s no t a hot-bed of disease and a foul 

Training. noisome chamber to self-respecting teachers 

and scholars. Bathing and washing at 
school, too, become all the more necessary if physical exer- 
cises, drill, gymnastics, or games form any effective part of 
the school pursuits. To be of use, these exercises must 
stimulate the circulation, respiration, and perspiration. 
The effects, obvious to the eye at the end of a gymnastic 
lesson, should be increased breathing, heightened colour of 
the skin, and perspiration. Cleanliness demands that the 
exercise be followed by a thorough wash and brisk rubbing 
with a towel. 

1 Plato, Republic, Book III., 401e-4O2a (italics mine). 



CLEANLINESS. 263 

The school, if it undertakes the work of training in 
cleanliness, must, then, endeavour to inculcate habits and 
arouse moral and aesthetic feelings. This is all the more 
necessary in those neighbourhoods where home influences 
are likely to be antagonistic to this end. The whole efforts 
of the staff and the arrangements of the school must aim 
at creating a proper ' tone ' on the subject of cleanliness, 
Tone is the key to the whole problem, and its dominant 
note must be pride in the cleanliness of the person and the 
surroundings, and a scrupulous, almost quixotic, abhor- 
rence of anything approaching uncleanness. The more the 
home circumstances set a bad example, the more nice and 
particular must be the school attitude on this question. 
Unfortunately the facilities for home bathing are not 
universal. Many of the houses in villages and in the slums 
of our large towns have no bathing accommodation. Pro- 
vision for bathing at school in these places thus becomes 
imperative; The school must make up for the deficiencies 
of the home. 

Necessarily the first care of the teachers must be their 
own example. Teachers cannot be too par- 
Example ticular in this respect. Their appearance and 

n habits should pointedly show their repug- 



nance of dirt. Then every effort must be 
made to keep the school itself scrupulously clean. Walls, 
floors, windows, desks, books, everything should point the 
obvious moral. In their attitude to the cleanliness of 
pupils, teachers should show the most particular discrimi- 
nation. A dirty child should not mix with his companions. 
Dirty hands, face, boots, and untidy, uiibrushed clothes, 
should call forth immediate and certain disapproval. Every 
offender against cleanliness should remove himself instantly, 
and cleanse himself before taking his place as a member of 
the school society. 



264 CLEANLINESS. 

Much, however, depends on the attitude adopted by the 

teacher in carrying out these measures. The 
School Tone. . , J . , . , , , 

offence is not mainly against the teacher or 

his authority, but against the school society. To disap- 
prove of uncleanness, or to punish it by an appeal to 
personal authority, is to place the teacher above the 
school and the school society. " Clean children in a clean 
school" should be the pride of the pupils, a part of 
the school reputation ; uncleanness an offence against the 
school honour, and the pupils should care for the honour 
and reputation of the school equally with the teacher. 
The attitude of the teacher to an offender should imply 
that he is unfit to mix with his fellows until he has 
cleansed himself, and that he has had no care for the 
honour of the school. The teacher, too, should exercise 
the utmost tact and judgment in securing the approval of 
the class in the measures he takes. He should endeavour 
to create and strengthen a school conscience that will 
instinctively disapprove of uncleanness. If, then, the 
teacher acts throughout by appealing to his own authority, 
if he does not voice the opinion of the class or school, if 
he has not behind him the public and private assent of 
the body of pupils, if he does not base his judgment 
on pride in the reputation and honour of the school, then 
he may dominate the offender, but his influence in creating 
a public conscience on the subject of cleanliness will be 
but little and is too likely to be actually a negative 
quantity. 

A formal inspection of the pupils is not to be recom- 
mended. Such is not the most effective way to gain their 
tacit approval. Bat constant watching of a less formal 
character is very necessary, and those unclean in person or 
clothes should be sent away to cleanse themselves. For a 
first offence a private talking to is advisable. The teacher 



CLEANLINESS. 265 

should lay the motto of the school before the pupil, appeal 
to his pride in its reputation, and to his self-respect, 
and encourage him to show exemplary scrupulousness in 
endeavouring to be worthy of his school. In cases of 
frequent uiicleanness the parent should be asked to come 
and see the head teacher. Gently and persuasively, for it 
is a delicate subject, the head teacher should point out that 
her child is the black sheep of the flock whose habits are 
meeting with the disapproval of his school fellows. The 
virtues of cleanliness and tidiness should be hinted at and 
the mother advised to supervise personally his daily ablu- 
tions and to make her child a respectable member of the 
school. 

For the carrying out of remedial measures washing 
accommodation, hot water, soap, and towels 
should be amply provided. The soap should 
be carbolic disinfectant, and the towels should be removed 
when wet. There should be a towel for each child, an ideal 
which is realised in the best Continental and American 
schools. The washing accommodation should be sufficient 
for many of the pupils to wash themselves after play. A 
large number of pupils after recreation are sure to have 
dirty hands, and they should be trained to proceed at once 
to wash themselves before beginning class-room work. 
Slackness in these matters cannot but be fatal to the forma- 
tion of an active hygienic conscience. It is most important 
that pupils do not wash in water that has already been 
used, or use towels someone else has used, for in that way 
skin diseases and ophthalmia rapidly spread. Several kinds 
of wash-hand-basins have been designed to secure this end. 
Perhaps the most satisfactory arrangement is one by which 
the pupils wash in the spray from the tap. An illustration 
of the Doultoii Improved Trough Lavatory in use in the 
schools of the London County Council is given. 



266 CLEANLINESS. 

Washing in the lavatories should be under the careful 
supervision of a member of the staff, who should see that 
pupils thoroughly cleanse themselves, use clean water, and 
their own towels. 




Fig. 11. DIAGRAM OF WASHING TROUGH FOR PUPILS TO WASH IN THE SPRAY. 

The washing of the whole body is, however, as important 
as the keeping clean of the hands and face, 
though it is more often neglected. If the 
school undertakes a crusade against unclean- 
ness, the whole and not a superficial part of the problem 
of cleanly habits should be grappled with. The difficulties 
raised with respect to school bathing are largely those of 
expense, yet the outlay in providing baths and bathing 
rooms is not really large, and it would meet with its due 
rewards in brighter and healthier pupils, in purer and 
sweeter air in the class-rooms, and in improved work. 

The most convenient arrangement for bathing large 
numbers of children is by means of a system of hot and 
cold showers. The children should first be well lathered 
with soap. Each child then needs only to be under the 
shower for a few minutes to rub himself briskly all over. 
The shower should be warm to begin with, but become pro- 
gressively cooler. The bath should be followed by brisk 
friction with a course towel. With a system of from ten to 



CLEANLINESS. 



267 



twenty showers a class of forty pupils can be undressed, 
washed, dried, and dressed in a few minutes. School 
bathing of this kind is now practised with great success in 
many schools in America and on the Continent, and the 
example set might well be copied by a country that prides 
itself on its cleanly ways. An illustration of a system of 
showers is given below. 




Fig. 12. DIAGRAM OF SPRAY BATU FOR BATHING A LARGE NUMBER 
OF CHILDREN. 



A convenient arrangement for bathing a number of 
children at one time is in use at the Poor Law Schools 
belonging to the Edmonton Union at Enfield. The arrange- 
ment is as follows : " There is a circular trough formed in 
the floor of white glazed bricks, round which runs a seat of 
similar material, the whole being enclosed with a circular 
wall about 4 ft. 6 ins. high covered with cement in which 
there is an opening for entrance. Over the raised centre 
portion, about 7 ft. in diameter, enclosed by the trough, 
is arranged a large rose spray fed by water from a special 
gas water-heater and controlled by an attendant. At the 
bottom of the trough is a copper tube pierced with small 
holes. The modus operandi is as follows : The boys, ten 
at a time, when undressed enter through the opening in 
the centre of the wall, each boy receiving as he enters a 



268 



CLEANLINESS. 



small dab of soft soap on the head ; they then sit on the 
edge round the trough ; the water conies into this trough 
through the perforated tube, and they proceed to wash 
their feet. Upon the completion of this they stand in a 
group in the centre, the water is turned on, and, by means 




Fig. 13. 

of the conveniently placed soap, a thorough cleansing is 
rapidly effected." 1 A diagram showing the trough, seat, 
central stand, and rose spray is given in Fig. 13. 

One of the most appropriate and opportune times for 
school bathing is immediately after gymnastic exercises 
and school games. Indeed these exercises demand a bath 
to follow. Exercise when of value promotes vigorous 
activity of the skin, and the resultant perspiration should 
be removed immediately. The pupils should be trained in 
the custom of regarding bathing after active exercise as 
4 the proper thing.' There is little doubt that once the 
pupils experience its stimulating and refreshing effects the 
practice will recommend itself to them in a way far more 

1 Clay, Modern School Buildings, p. 468. 



CLEANLINESS. 269 

effective than will talking about the invigorating conse- 
quences of a bath. 

It is obvious, however, that if the habit of bathing is 
trained in the above way it is trained only in connexion 
with school life. It will still be possible that bathing at 
home and after school days are over will fall into disuse. 
The difficulty would be partly met by the authorities 
providing public bathing houses where hot and cold 
showers could be obtained at a nominal charge, and by 
bathing and dressing rooms being established in connexion 
with continuation schools and young men's social clubs. 
And, indeed, such measures are the only means that can 
be employed to establish cleanly habits in that part of the 
population which is unprovided with bathing accommoda- 
tion in the home. Where there is provision for bathing at 
home it is very desirable that the daily bath should become 
a habitual institution. The habit of bathing daily, though 
largely a matter of home training, can be much encouraged 
at school. The class teacher in talking about cleanliness, 
particularly to the older pupils, should recommend the 
daily morning bath, and should endeavour to induce as 
many as possible to begin the practice. From time to 
time he should ask how many are continuing the practice, 
and should reward the virtuous with meet praise and the 
neglectful with pitying disapproval. A ' morning bath 
brigade ' so formed in a school would be a happy influence 
in leavening the whole. 

During the summer months swimming should be one 

of the weekly exercises, and it should be 

thoroughly taught. The exercise is not only 

cleanly and healthy, but is admirable for training all the 

muscles of the body and developing the lungs. Young 

pupils first need to become accustomed to being in the 

water. Afterwards they require to be shown how the 



270 CLEANLINESS. 

body is kept afloat by the downward pressure of the hands 
and arms and driven forward by the backward thrust 
of the feet and legs. Instruction in this can very well 
take place in the gymnasium, but its application requires 
the swimming bath. Where a pupil is timid, or has 
difficulty in the harmonious action of arms and legs, he 
should have swimming practice in the swimming belt. If 
the instructor makes clear what the action of the arms 
and hands should be the learner will quickly acquire the 
art of keeping afloat, and confidence once gained it will 
not be long before he can swim alone. No unclean pupil 
should be allowed to enter the swimming bath until he 
has washed thoroughly under the shower. 

Many education authorities encourage swimming among 
school children by giving certificates of merit, and teachers 
should interest themselves in the exercise by encouraging 
swimming clubs and competitions. The same counsel 
should prevail in the case of continuation schools and 
young men and women's social clubs. There is little 
doubt that if the young become accustomed to exercises in 
which the naked skin is exposed to the public gaze, self- 
respect in keeping the skin clean will not be long in following. 

7. It has been our endeavour throughout to lay the 

main stress on the formation of cleanly 
Instruction in , , . , . , , . 

Cleanliness: habits, on arousing and strengthening a 

in the Primary hygienic conscience, and on inculcating feel- 
ings of self-respect and pride in connexion 
with personal habits. These aspects must be the foun- 
dation of the training. After this is well laid, instruction 
finds a place in giving the pupils an intelligent under- 
standing of conduct that has become second nature. 
Instruction in cleanliness has, however, not only a hygienic 
but a moral aspect, for to be clean is a duty to oneself and 
to others. Both aspects of the instruction lose their value if 



CLEANLINESS, 271 

given in any formal and merely theoretical way. What 
is taught should arise out of, and bear directly on, the 
practice of the school and the moral and aesthetic attitude 
of the school tone. The value of the instruction, indeed, 
depends 011 its incidental and practical character. 

The most appropriate time for considering the functions 
of the skin is when the pupils are perspiring freely after 
exercise. The pollution of clothing and of the air could 
then be discussed and the duty of cleanliness in its health 
aspect established. The moral questions of self-respect and 
duty to oneself and one's fellows should only be examined 
when favourable opportunities present themselves. They 
will, so to speak, always be in the air in the daily work- 
ing of the school. When, however, some flagrant case of 
uncleanliness demanding public censure arises, this is the 
time for brief, well-weighed words uttered in all serious- 
ness. Opportunities for occasional discussion, too, may 
present themselves in the Scripture, history, geography, 
or literature lessons. In such incidental talks and in the 
more serious disciplinary oration the term ' cleanliness ' 
should be given the widest of meanings. On its physical 
side, it should include cleanliness of person, clothes, air, and 
surroundings ; on its spiritual side, cleanliness of thought, 
word, and deed. Dirty habits, foul air to breathe, and 
unclean bodies should be classed for condemnation with a 
dirty trick, a foul word, and an unclean thought. Cleanli- 
ness of body and of mind are the good and beautiful ; 
uncleanness of body and mind the ugly and vicious. 

The educator of well-balanced mind, however, will 
always have before him the fact that the 

in the discipline and influence of the primary 

Continuation , , , .. ., *,. ,," 

School. school cease to aftect its pupils, directly 

at any rate, at the early age of fourteen, 
or even earlier. The years from fourteen to manhood, of 



272 CLEANLINESS. 

great importance as they are in the formation of character, 
remain as a period when the good done by the school is, 
in many cases, lost for ever. Many reformers, more 
enthusiastic than wise, more noisy than discreet, in their 
haste to cleanse the world and to revolutionise its habits, 
strenuously advocate the inclusion of all manner of in- 
struction in the primary school curriculum. Cookery, 
laundry, household management, the duties of mothers, 
the care of babies, hygiene, are all forced one after the 
other on the young primary school girl or boy. It matters 
not that the young girl will in all probability spend the 
next few years in a factory, shop, or office, and that the 
young boy will be thrown into the world, where custom 
and tradition will be a thousandfold stronger than the 
weak bonds forged by instruction. There are, indeed, 
very grave doubts whether pupils from ten to fourteen 
years of age will benefit much by instruction in the sub- 
jects mentioned above, and the doubts become almost 
certainties when the time from fourteen to twenty years of 
age is a period of educational neglect. 

All observers of human nature agree that the period of 
life from sixteen to twenty years of age is a time of moral 
and religious stress. At this age there are intense 
searchings of heart, and the mind is probing for solid 
foundation for moral and religious sanctions. It is during 
this period that the rising generation needs the wisest 
guidance, the most sympathetic influence, and firm but 
tactful and cautious discipline. Primary school instruc- 
tion and training only touches the fringe of the education 
problem. It is to the continuation schools that we must 
look for that wise and sympathetic influence, that training 
in habits, and that broad-minded instruction that will 
lead our maidens to be good mothers, and our youths 
to be manly, honest men, healthy in mind and body. 



CLEANLINESS. 273 

Instruction, then, in the moral and hygienic aspects of 
cleanliness could very well form part of the teaching in 
continuation schools. Even there it should be of a broad 
and general character. It should not be technical or 
detailedly scientific, but rather generous and inspiring, 
appealing not so much to scientific curiosity as to the 
growing feelings of citizenship and self-respecting manhood. 

8. There now remains to be considered the disagreeable 
subject of children suffering from skin 

in iseases. ^j seageg an( j f rO m verminous heads and 
clothing. Cases of this kind, happily rare in many schools, 
are only too common in the schools situated in the slums 
of our large towns. 

The skin disease most frequently met with is ringworm. 
Ringworm is caused by a fungus, or vegetable 
parasite, that attacks the skin, and especially 
the roots of the hairs. It is therefore most frequently 
found on the hairy scalp, though any part of the skin is 
liable to be attacked. The disease shows itself in the form 
of circular patches, red and inflamed and covered with dry 
scales. When present on the scalp the hairs break off and 
leave circular bare patches. The disease is extremely con- 
tagious, especially among children, and can be carried from 
child to child by means of hats, towels, or hair-brushes. 
It should be remembered that any scale from the ring- 
worm patch is capable of transmitting the disease to an 
unaffected child. In its early stages ringworm, if treated 
thoroughly, may be cured in a comparatively short time. 
But when it has obtained a firm hold on the skin it is very 
obstinate to ordinary treatment. When, therefore, a case 
of ringworm is found teachers should immediately adopt 
strict measures. Laxity may result in the rapid spread of 
the disease throughout the school. The affected child 
should be dismissed at once, and the case reported to the 
PHY. ED. 18 



274 CLEANLINESS. 

school nurse and the medical officer, who will advise the 
parents as to treatment. The child should not be read- 
mitted until certified by the medical officer as fully cured. 
In the case of verminous children the following measures 
adopted by the London County Council have 
proved efficacious. 

"The nurses visit the schools and select 
all children with unclean heads. A card, enclosed in a 
sealed envelope, with a -part easily separable (line of per- 
foration), is given to each child to take home. 

" The card has on it simple directions for treatment, and 
a statement that children not treated after a few days will 
be separated from the others. The parent is requested to 
read the instructions, and sign and return the attached 
portion, or the child will be separated from the other 
children forthwith. 

" On the front of the card there is printed : 
PRIVATE NOTICE. 

Your attention is drawn to the condition of this child's head, 
which has been noticed in school. The school nurse has examined 
it, and states that by attention to the directions given on the other 
side it can be rendered permanently clean within a week. If 
cleaning is not effected by that time the child will have to be kept 
separated from the others in school until the unclean condition is 
remedied. 

" On the back of the card : 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR CLEANSING HEADS. 

Where there are sore places, scabs, or enlarged glands, these will 
generally get better on removing all lice and nits. 

It is possible to effect a cure in about a week. 

All hairs with nits and all hair within a quarter of an inch of a 
sore must be cut off. 

The head must be washed and scrubbed daily with paraffin oil, to 
which an equal quantitj^ of olive oil may be added. If there are 
scabs, these when softened should be removed. 



CLEANLINESS. 275 

Repeat this treatment daily for a week, then weekly till all signs 
of lice are gone. 

Where there is difficulty in keeping a child's head clean the hair 
should be worn cut short. 

Iron the collars of the clothes with a hot iron. 

Caution. Do not use paraffin near a fire or naked light. 

" The attached portion reads : 

I have read the instructions on the back of the card and will 

endeavour during the ensuing week to get - into a healthy 

and clean condition. 

Signed . 

" At the end of a week from the nurse's first visit all 
cases not treated or not returning the card are separated 
from the other children, and cases not returning the card 
signed by the parent have a home visit by the nurse ; if at 
the nurse's fourth school visit no attempt at treatment has 
been made, the case is notified to the School Attendance 
Officer, and a second card left at the home by him on 
which the treatment is again set forth, the failure to adopt 
remedy pointed out, and a statement that if at the end of a 
week (nurse's sixth visit) the child has not had treatment 
it will be excluded from the school, and that the parents 
or guardians will be liable to immediate prosecution." 1 

In school areas where school nurses do not exist the 
teachers should, with the consent of the school managers, 
carry on a similar crusade against personal uncleanliness. 
Children suffering from vermin should be separated at 
once from the others. The parents should be immediately 
communicated with and instructed how to treat their 
children. Failure to comply with the instructions should 
be followed by instant removal from the school, when the 
case falls naturally into the hands of the attendance 
department of educational administration. 

1 Quoted from Lyster, School Hygiene, pp. 223-225. 



CHAPTER X. 



FKESH AIR. 

1. FREE interchange of gases between air and blood and 
between blood and tissues is essential to vital 
toXetthing Ue P rocess and factional activity. Fatigue we 
and their have seen to be primarily a condition in 

Effect on the wn i cn there is a clogging of tissue activity 
by the accumulation of waste products ; the 
cells of the higher nervous centres being particularly sensi- 
tive to their baneful influence. If, then, the oxygen of 
the blood be not renewed and its carbonic 
acid fully removed, symptoms of fatigue and 
of diminished vital power show themselves in headache, 
languor, lassitude, irritability, and a weakened power of 
mental concentration and of physical endurance. The 
free exchange of gases between the air and the blood is 
necessarily largely dependent on the character of the air 
breathed, that is, on the proportion of oxygen and of 
carbonic acid it contains. Usually the air contains "04 per 
cent, of carbonic acid, but continued breathing in a confined 
space decreases the proportion of oxygen and increases 
that of carbonic acid. The latter ingredient may, however, 
be increased by '02 per cent, of impurity to '06 per cent, 
before any marked effect on the life and activity of the 
tissues becomes noticeable. Continued breathing of air 
vitiated to this extent will in the course of time, however, 
weaken mental power and physical endurance, and make 
the oucome of conditions of fatigue more rapid. 

276 



FRESH AIR. 277 

When this measure of impurity is exceeded breathed air 
begins to have more marked effects on the system. To a 
person coming from the fresh air it smells close and stuffy, 
though perhaps its condition is not noticeable to one who 
has become accustomed to it. When above 1 per cent, of 
impurity is present headache and faintness are produced, 
and with increasing impurity there arrives a point at which 
the activity of the higher nervous centres is interfered with 
so seriously that insensibility follows. From a large mass 
of practical experience of the effect of carbonic acid impurity 
on vitality it has been generally agreed to consider '02 per 
cent, the limit of permissible added impurity ; though 
some observers as Carnelly, Haldane, and Anderson place 
it considerably higher, at '09 per cent. 

Breathing, besides increasing the proportion of carbonic 
acid in the air, also increases the temperature 
auc ^ ^ e amoun ^ ^ moisture. Expired air is 
saturated with moisture and its temperature 
approximates that of the body. Hence the results of the 
continued breathing of the air of a confined space are a 
gradual approach to saturation, shown frequently by the 
deposit of moisture on the cold surfaces of windows and 
walls, and a steady rise in the temperature of the air. 
Both these consequences have a marked effect on vitality. 
Tissue activity, as has been shown, produces heat, and the 
body is kept at a uniform temperature mainly by the loss 
of heat through the skin. It follows, then, that a rise in 
temperature, by diminishing the radiation from the skin, 
will hinder the life processes' of the tissues, and this result 
will be all the more marked owing to the increasing 
humidity of the air diminishing the activity of the sweat 
glands. The debilitating and relaxing effects of a warm, 
' muggy ' day and the invigorating influence of a clear, 
dry, and moderately cold atmosphere, well illustrate the 



278 FRESH AIR. 

action of moisture and warmth on the vitality of the 
system. 

It is thus evident that the continued increase of carbonic 
acid, of temperature, and of moisture all play their part in 
the evil effects that breathed air has on the power of life 
and work, the symptoms of those effects being seen in 
lassitude, restlessness, and declining powers of attention. 
Dr. Kerr, Medical Officer of Schools to the London County 
Council, in his " Report on the Condition of the Schools 
and Scholars of London for the year 1907," gives the 
results of a number of experiments made with the object 
of observing the effects of increase of carbonic acid, of 
moisture, and of temperature on the work of the pupils. 
To quote from his report : " The London child takes little 
notice of variations of temperature between 56 F. and 
64 F., and apparently does its best work about 58 F., 
but in this regard there are considerable individual differ- 
ences. There seems to be no advantage whether the air 
at these temperatures is dry or saturated, or whether at 
rest or in gentle movement. A fall below 55 F. gives 
rise to comment, and a rise above 65 F. to unpleasant 
subjective symptoms in some persons. . . . With high 
temperatures, 65 F. or more, whatever other factors may 
be present, high or low proportions of carbonic acid gas, 
moisture or not, movement of air or rest, the high 
temperature alone has an evil influence in determining 
deterioration in the mental work in the children. 

" On two occasions boys attributed headaches to the 
noise of the fan, but restless-ness, inattention and listless 
attitudes were noticeable. Above 70 F., three or four 
children in the class got headaches, and others flushed 
faces, and this whether the carbon dioxide was in high or 
low quantity, or the air fresh, or unpleasantly stuffy 
from human exhalations. The only occasions with high 



FRESH AIR. 279 

temperature where no mental deterioration was determined 
was when, with high carbon dioxide, and unpleasantly stuffy 
condition, the air was kept pleasantly moving by the fan. 
On occasions with 77 dry and 74 wet bulb readings, no 
subjective signs or mental deterioration was noticed when 
the fan in the room was thus kept working. 

" It was found impossible under school conditions to 
obtain a high temperature, 70 or more, with considerable 
humidity, that is over 60 per cent. Possibly this may be 
obtained in suitable weather, and help to solve the 
question of what part humidity plays. Meanwhile, the 
conclusion seems justified that below 65 F. relative 
humidity plays no important part in affecting mental 
work. But humidity appears intimately related to high 
temperature and loss of body heat from the surface. The 
nearer the wet bulb temperature comes to the body heat, 
the more important physiologically it seems to be, as the 
difficulty of getting rid of heat increases disturbance in 
the metabolism, probably setting up toxic symptoms, first 
in diminished working capacity, flushing, and restlessness, 
and later by headache, sickness, and rapidly increasing 
and marked failure of working power. 

" Carbonic acid gas in the usual concentration seems to 
exert no appreciable effect on mental capacity. Above 35 
or 40 parts in 10,000, this may not be true. Dr. Briiicker 
and Dr. Hogarth personally experienced subjective feelings 
as of a light band round the forehead and temples and 
round the chest, and although no effect in change of 
atmosphere was apparent to teacher or scholars the test 
showed, and the teacher actually noticed at the time, that 
after about an hour there was a remarkable collapse in 
the mental capacity of the children. They appeared ex- 
hausted mentally, whilst at the same time there was 
entire absence of the headache, oppression, and nausea, or 



280 FRESH AIR. 

of the laziness, restlessness, and irritability shown in a hot 
close atmosphere alone. It yet remains to be determined 
whether there are not two trains of symptoms capable of 
disentanglement, due to different toxic causes, one from 
so-called 'heat retention,' the other 'an ultimate effect of 
carbon dioxide poisoning." 

Dr. Kerr summarises the result of the whole series of 
observations in the following statements, which are borne 
out by the conclusions arrived at as to the cause of fatigue 
and reduced vitality : 

" (i) Mental alertness and accuracy are improved by two 
or three hours of school work, provided that the atmosphere 
is satisfactory. 

" (ii) Temperatures above 65 F. give rise to definite 
subjective symptoms ; slackness and inattention in some, 
headaches in others. Although it is not easy to assert 
definite mental alteration till about 70 F. 

" (iii) Symptoms do not appear at 65 if the air is 
kept in gentle movement by a fan in the room. At higher 
temperatures the symptoms and mental conditions are 
ameliorated by such movement of the air. 

" (iv) With temperatures 70 F. and above, other factors 
being normal, there are marked symptoms, and very evident 
deterioration in mental alertness and accuracy. 

" (v) Eelative humidity does not affect the mental capa- 
city of children at low temperatures. Increase of humidity 
appears to increase the effects of high temperatures. 

" (vi) Carbonic acid gas in considerable excess, although 
not producing symptoms found in a hot and close atmo- 
sphere, seems to produce, after a time, considerable fatigue 
in the performance of mental functions by the children." J 

1 Report of the Education Committee of the London County 
Council submitting the report of the Medical Officer (Education) 
for the year ended 31st March, 1907, p. 63. 



FRESH AIR. 281 

It lias been noticed already that breathed air contains 

organic impurities from the lining of the 

Sfurities bronchial tubes, which together with the 

volatile organic substances exuded from the 

skin are responsible for the offensive smell and close stuffy 

' feel ' of breathed air. The effect of these impurities on 

the atmosphere and on health has already been considered 

and therefore need not trouble us here. 1 

2. Seeing the effect that foul air has on health, and on 
the power of continuous effective work, it is 

Examination important that the teacher should know 
erf Class Room frQm time fco time during tlie dav tlie state 

of the air in the class -room in order that he 
may take measures to flood the room with fresh air if the 
foulness pass beyond the permissible limit. It is of little 

use, as has already been hinted, to rely on 
Symptoms ^e sense f smell or the feeling of closeness 

and stuffiness. Those living in a room becom- 
ing gradually fouled fail to notice the state of the air until 
marked symptoms such as headaches, faintness, and sick- 
ness show themselves. It would, however, be wise, when 
listlessness, inattention, or bad work is observed, to con- 
sider whether it is not an indication that the state of the 
air in the room is not all that is to be desired. 

The teacher has no direct means at his disposal for 

measuring the amount of carbonic acid and 
Measurement organic impurity ill the air, though appara- 
of Carbonic ^ i i T, fi n i *. i 

Acid tus invented by Dr. bcurneld does exist by 

which the measure of impurity can with con- 
siderable accuracy be ascertained. It may be considered, 
however, that the rise in temperature, and the increase in 
humidity due to breathing, are roughly proportional to the 
amount of carbonic acid and organic impurity. As has been 
1 See Chapter IX., 1. 



282 FRESH AIR. 

shown, too, rise iii temperature and in humidity are, in them- 
selves, factors in bringing on fatigue and reduced vitality. 

The degree of humidity can be measured by means of a 
wet and dry bulb thermometer. The mois- 
of tumidity ^ ure on ^e we ^ bulb evaporating into the 
air absorbs heat, and thus causes the reading 
on the wet bulb thermometer to be lower than that on the 
dry bulb thermometer. The dryness of the air is, then, 
proportional to the difference of readings. The greater 
the difference between the two readings, the greater is the 
evaporation from the wet bulb, and the drier is the air of 
the room. The less the difference, the less is the evapora- 
tion, and the more nearly does the air of the room approach 
the point of saturation. When there is no difference in 
the readings, the air is saturated, and there is no evapora- 
tion from the wet bulb. 

Every class-room in a school should be tested from time 
to time on typical days, about the middle and near the end 
of each school session, to ascertain exactly the condition 
of the atmosphere as regards its humidity. Though few 
teachers can at all times command the use of a wet and 
dry bulb thermometer, there should be one in use in every 
school for periodic testing of the class-rooms. Especially 
is such testing necessary when the rooms are warmed by 
heated air or by hot pipes. On ordinary occasions any 
deposit of moisture on the cold surfaces of windows or 
walls should be taken as a sign that the humidity of the 
air has passed beyond the health limit. 

The rise in the temperature of the air can always be 

readily measured, and can be taken as a more 

Measurement or less accurate indication of the carbonic 

ure empera " acid and organic impurities and the degree of 

humidity. The continuous breathing of the 

air of rooms, even when it is regularly renewed, raises its 



FRESH AIR. 283 

temperature. With a flow of air necessary to keep the im- 
purities and humidity below the permissible limit, the rise 
of temperature due to breathing will be about 4F. Any 
increase of temperature of more than 4F. must be con- 
sidered as a sign of defective ventilation. Of course the 
temperature may rise from causes other than breathing, 
such as fires, stoves, hot pipes, and sunshine. It is desir- 
able, however, in cold weather, that the air- of the class- 
rooms be warmed to near the proper temperature before 
the children enter. 

It has been seen that temperatures from 55 F. to 64 F. 
are the most suitable for effective work, and it is generally 
held that the best work is done when the air is at a tem- 
perature of about 62 F. Hence, since the permissible 
warming of the air by breathing is 4F., the temperature 
of the air at the beginning of the school session should be 
about 58 F. and not less than 55 F. With these initial 
temperatures the ventilation should be such as not to raise 
the temperature above 62 F. A temperature above 64 F., 
at any rate in cold weather, should be considered both as 
injurious in itself and as indicating too high proportions of 
carbonic acid and organic impurities. 

If, however, fresh air at a low temperature is entering 
the room, it is impossible to keep the interior temperature 
between 55F. and 64 F. without heating the air by breath- 
ing to an extent that will render it injurious to health. 
The incoming fresh air in winter, then, should be warmed 
to a temperature approximating to 58 F. There are 
further reasons why the difference between the temperature 
of the interior and that of the incoming air should not be 
much greater than 4 F. It will be seen later that draughts 
and cold feet are caused by too great a difference between 
the temperature of the air in the room and that of the air 
entering. 



284 



FRESH AIR. 



Thermometers, then, should be regarded as essential 
parts of the equipment of every class-room, and the 
teacher should be strict in his constant and regular use of 
them. One thermometer for each class-room is not sufficient. 
At least three are required : one for taking the temperature 
of the outside air ; a second for taking the temperature of 
the lower stratum of air in the room, where the incoming 
fresh and colder air will most likely be found ; the third for 
taking the temperature of the upper stratum of air, where 
the heated breathed air will tend to accumulate. 

It has been seen that it is necessary for each teacher to 
know the ventilating power of his room on typical days in 
different seasons of the year. To effect this each room 
should be tested by means of the thermometers over 
intervals of a week at different hours until the ventilating 

Class Room No. of Pupils present Date 



u 

a, 75 
g 70 
* 65 
o> 60 

1 50 
H 45 
40 




















Remarks. 

































































































































Time of Day 



10 11 noon 12345 
Fig. 14. DIAGRAM OF CHART FOR TEMPERATURE. 



capacity of every class-room is intimately known. Readings 
of the three thermometers should be taken at regular 
intervals throughout the day. The most convenient times 
for taking readings will probably be at the change of 
lessons. Particularly should the temperatures be taken at 
the beginning and end of the school session, and before 
and after the recreation interval. The most suitable mode 
of recording the readings is by means of a chart such as 
the one above. 



FRESH AIR. 285 

Three curves will thus be obtained expressing the read- 
ings of the three thermometers throughout the day. It is 
important, however, to note down the number of children 
present, the length of the recreation interval, whether the 
room was flushed with fresh air during this period, during 
what periods gas-burners had to be lighted, whether the 
lessons demanded physical activity, as in music and drill, 
or quiet sitting, as in writing exercises, and what modifica- 
tions were made in the means of ventilation. Any signs 
of fatigue or of collapse in attention, general throughout 
the class, should be noted. 

Charts giving information such as the above would 
prove valuable in giving a thoroughly practical insight 
into the state of the room and its effect on health and 
work. They would be still more valuable if at certain 
times in the year the increase in humidity was tested 
by means of a wet and dry bulb thermometer, and 
the carbonic acid impurity by means of a Scurfield's 
Apparatus. 

Such thorough testing is only necessary at intervals 
throughout the year, but observation of the thermometer 
should be part of the daily routine. Especially is this 
necessary when the tone and work of the class show that 
fatigue has set in. The effect of various lessons on the 
rise in temperature should also be noted, for during 
singing and drill breathing is quicker and deeper and 
the air is more rapidly fouled than during more reposeful 
lessons. 

3. The teacher, then, must consider the continual observa- 
tion of the state of the class-room air as part 

Ventilation* of llis ^^ routine duty, a duty as necessary 

to effective work as the preparation of his 

lessons. The observations, however, should always be 

made with a view to adapting the means of ventilation of 



286 FRESH AIR. 

the class-room to the needs of the pupils. It is true that 
the appliances for ventilating the rooms of a 
Ventilation school are matters of school structure and 
Practical hence rest with the architect, but it is no less 

Problem. true that a great part of the success of the 

means provided will depend on whether the 
teacher makes the most and best use of the system. 
Undoubtedly a bad system can never be made to work well, 
on the other hand it is certain that a good system can 
through neglect or ignorance be rendered most ineffective. 
There are still many teachers who, even in summer, fail to 
open the class-room windows, and who, during the recreation 
intervals, never think of flushing the rooms with fresh air 
by means of open windows and doors. 

It is the duty of a teacher to know the needs of his class 
with respect to fresh air, by definite and well-considered 
examination to understand the problems of ventilation 
presented by his own class-room, and to make the most and 
best of whatever means exist. Head teachers in particular 
would be well advised to explain to their colleagues the 
system by which the school is ventilated, and to inform 
them of the measures that in the past have been found to 
be most successful. The problem of ventilation lies in 
removing the fouled air at such a rate, and supplying fresh 
air in such quantities, as to keep the temperature, the 
humidity, the carbonic acid, and the organic impurities 
below the limits permissible for health. 

It is a matter of no great difficulty to compute the 
amount of fresh air each child should receive in order to 
keep down the proportion of harmful products, and quite 
easy to provide inlets of sufficient size to bring in fresh air 
and outlets of dimensions necessary to take away the foul 
air. It is, however, one of the most difficult of practical 
problems to secure that the fresh air from the inlets 



FRESH AIR. 287 

spreads itself out through the room so that each child 
receives his proper share, and then that the foul breathed 
air flows directly to the outlets and is at once got rid of 
without accumulating in any part of the room or mixing 
unduly with the incoming fresh air. The problem is still 
further complicated when it is considered that the flow of 
fresh air must be sufficiently great to provide for a large 
body of children, and yet must not enter with such 
momentum as to cause unpleasant draughts. The problem, 
moreover, is never a constant one. It varies with the 
difference between the temperature of the outside air and 
that of the room. Winds considerably interfere with the 
ventilation, sometimes aiding, sometimes hindering. The 
means used to heat the room, whether by open fires, 
stoves, hot pipes, or heated air, present a further com- 
plication. Breathed air, too, has a distinct motion of its 
own. In the presence of so many forces, some hindering, 
some aiding, all more or less variable, it is obvious that 
the problem of ventilation is a complex one, and it is little 
wonder that in practice ventilation is so often unsuc- 
cessful. 

Dr. Shaw, in his valuable book on the problem of 
ventilation, states the difficulties in his humorous way as 
follows : "I suppose the greatest social enemy from the 
ventilation point of view is the individual who sneezes ; 
the person who merely breathes is bad enough, the person 
who sneezes adds a special difficulty because he distributes 
a cloud of fine particles which may or may not be dele- 
terious. Imagine such an enemy in a remote corner of a 
large room and consider what must be done to wash away 
the respirable impurity. Some benevolent authority may 
have decided, perhaps, that 1,000 cubic feet of air per hour 
is sufficient for the work, because no signs of exceptional 
discomfort or illness have manifested themselves when 



288 FRESH AIR. 

that amount of air has been supplied on the average. So 
every second a quarter of a cubic foot of air is duly 
provided for our enemy and delivered for him through an 
opening in the wall, which some say should be high up, 
others low down. At the same time the quarter cubic 
foot which was supplied for him some fifteen minutes 
previously is called for at another opening in another wall, 
which again some say should be low down and others 
high up. But how is our enemy with the sneezing cold 
to be sure of getting his quarter cubic foot, and how shall 
he be sure of giving it up when he has used it in such a 
way that it shall reach the proper opening for its removal ? 
As a matter of fact, the distribution of the air supply 
between the occupants of a room is a matter of scrambling 
between them ; and in the course of the scramble there is 
much scope for the exercise of various physical laws that 
are not much regarded in deciding the general practice of 
ventilation. Certain it is that, with a single opening in 
one wall for delivery and a single opening in another for 
extraction, if every occupant of a school class-room does 
get his fair share and use of the fresh air supply, it is a 
result that one could not anticipate." l 

The first question that arises in ventilation is the 
amount of fresh air required for each child. 
The Umt^of j^ mav ^ t a k e n as a f a j r })&${$ f or computa- 
tion that each child on the average breathes 
out *4 cu. ft. of carbonic acid per hour. The quantity, of 
course, varies. When the child is at rest the amount is 
less, when physically active it is greater. It is less than 
the amount given out by an adult, which may be taken on 
the average as '72 cu. ft. per hour. As the permissible limit 
of added impurity is '02 per cent., the amount of air fouled 

1 Dr. Shaw, Air Currents, Preface, p. vii. 



FRESH AIR. 289 

per hour will be - - cu. ft., or 2000 cu. ft. in the 

case of a child and 3600 cu. ft. in the case of an adult, 
which means that the flow of air must be f cu. ft. and 
1 cu. ft. per sec. in each case respectively. 

The velocity of this flow will depend on the air space of 
the room. If the air space per child be small the neces- 
sary amount of air must enter more rapidly than if the 
air space per child be large. The velocity of the flow, 
however, must not be too great. It has been calculated 
that with an air space per child of 200 cu. ft. the velocity 
of the incoming air will not be noticeable and will not 
give rise to chills. It is interesting to note that the Board 
of Education, by its regulations, considers 120 cu. ft. suf- 
ficient for a primary school child, while the minimum for a 
secondary school child is much greater. It is evident that 
the Board considers that the capacity of the average child 
to withstand the effects of suffocation is great, and greater 
in the case of a child in a primary school than in that of 
one in a secondary school. 

The temperature of the incoming air has much to do with 
the presence or absence of draughts. If the temperature 
of the fresh air be near the temperature of the air of the 
room a much greater velocity would be less noticeable than 
a less velocity in the case of air considerably colder. It 
is important, then, for efficient ventilation of rooms con- 
taining many children to have the incoming air warmed in 
winter in order that the inward flow may be sufficiently 
rapid and yet not noticeable. We have seen already that 
the temperature to which it should approximate is 58 F. 
The first law of ventilation is that whatever quantity of 
air comes into a room the same quantity 
should flow out. Consequently, both inlets 
and outlets must be provided. Moreover, the amount 

PHY. ED. 19 



290 FRESH AIR. 

of air coining in or going out is determined by the size of 
the openings. It is obvious, therefore, that small inlets will 
restrict the flow out as well as the flow in, whatever be 
the size of the outlets, and small outlets will restrict the 
flow in, whatever be the size of the inlets. Theoretically 
it would seem that inlets and outlets should be the same 
in area, but it is found in practice that it is preferable 
to have slightly larger outlets. It is necessary to insist 
on the provision of both inlets and outlets of sufficient size, 
because in many people's minds there is an impression 
that if you make provision for air coming in the air will 
find its way out somehow, or that if outlets are provided 
for getting rid of foul air the chinks and cracks of 
windows and doors will be quite enough for the delivery 
of fresh air. 

The problem, however, is something more than simply 
bringing air in or taking air out. The circu- 
Circulation lation of air throughout the room and the 
Room L velocity of its flow are important consider- 

ations. Taking these points into account 
the first practical principles of ventilation are that large 
inlet and outlet spaces should be provided so that large 
quantities of air can come in and go out with small momen- 
tum, and that the inlets and outlets should be distri- 
buted over as large an area of the room as possible and in 
such a way as to cause movement of air across the room. 
It will be readily seen that windows widely open will 
cause less draught than windows slightly open, and that 
it is better to open all the windows than only one. A 
current of air distributed over the whole side of a room is 
preferable to its concentration between the door or fireplace 
and one open window. Account must be taken, however, 
of the outside temperature. As will be more fully explained 
later, the admission of cold air in large or small quantities 



FRESH AIR. 291 

high up or low down will cause draughts due mainly to 
difference of temperature. 

The circulation of the air within the room is a difficult 
problem. It is complicated by the facts that there are at 
least two distinct sets of currents momentum currents of 
incoming and outgoing air ; and convection currents, that is 
those due to differences of temperature and that these con- 
siderably interfere with each other. Many of the draughts 
which are supposed to be due to incoming air are really 
due to the action of convection. Convection, indeed, is an 
all-pervading influence in the circulation of the air in the 
room. Dr. Shaw specially emphasises its importance : "It 
is at once the condition of success and the cause of most 
failures. Without convection ventilation would be impos- 
sible ; in consequence of convection nearly all schemes of 
ventilation fail." 1 

The law of convection is that heated air rises and 
cooled air sinks in the surrounding air. Hence every 
source of heat in a room causes upward currents, and every 
object colder than the air of the room causes downward 
currents. Fires, stoves, hot pipes, the warm walls around 
the chimney, warmth of skin, heated breathed air all 
give rise to upward movements of air. Cold walls and 
windows, cold air entering give rise to downward move- 
ment. 

Convection thus causes a vertical distribution of air in 
the room and also horizontal currents along the ceiling and 
floor, and since these currents are due to difference of 
temperature their velocity will be proportional to the 
amount of that difference. Hence, in a room occupied by a 
class of children there will be a general movement of breathed 
air upward, with a velocity dependent on the relation be- 
tween the temperature of the room and the temperature of 
1 Op. cit., p. 38. 



292 FRESH AIR. 

the air coming in to take its place. This general move- 
ment will be interfered with by the action of fires, hot 
pipes, cold windows, and incoming fresh air. Cold windows 
on a frosty day give rise to very appreciable down draughts. 
Incoming air considerably colder than the interior air falls 
rapidly to the floor, whether the original current be directed 
upward or not, and whether it enter high up or low down. 
The further course of these currents will depend on where 
upward convection currents are taking place. Each 
person breathing is making his own upward current, besides 
which fireplaces and hot pipes are special sources. A fire 
will cause a direct draught along the floor between windows 
and fireplace. 

Draughts, then, are not necessarily due to the moinen* 
turn of the incoming air, but they may be, 
and often are, the result of the admission of 
air much colder than the air of the room, or they may be due 
to the existence of very cold and extensive window surfaces. 
The remedy for draughts may not be, then, to diminish 
the amount of incoming air, but rather to supply that air 
warmed, and to supply more of it, so as to reduce the 
general temperature of the room. "If complaint is made 
of draughts the proper remedy may be to supply more 
air perhaps a little warmer not less air a little colder 
or of the same temperature. The explanation of the 
paradox is that air is required to wash away the surplus 
heat as well as the surplus impurity, that the draught 
may be due to the united effort, in the way of convection, 
of the assembly of people, and that the effects of con- 
vection are less if there is more air with which to work " l 
and, we may add, more uniformity of temperature. 

It is generally considered that a difference of more than 
4 F. between the temperature of the incoming air and 
1 Shaw, Op. cit., Preface, p. ix. 



FRESH AIR. 



293 



that of the air of the room will give rise to undesirable 
convection draughts. This is further confirmation of the 
principle of supplying air at a temperature approximating 
to 58 F. The incoming air will then be warmed through 
4 F. by breathing and so keep the temperature of the 
room about 62 F. 

In winter, when cold outside air is brought in, draughts 
cannot be avoided, no matter what contrivances are used 




4 I \HEATING 

/ I \ \ BATTERY, 

1 OR COIL. OR FAN. 

Fig. 15. THE MOST EFFECTIVE FORM OF AIR OUTLET. 



to direct the current upward. Cold air must fall to the 
floor. At such times there is an almost irresistible im- 
pulse to decrease the ventilation to a minimum in order 
to shut off draughts, an impulse strengthened by the 
desire to warm the room. There is thus a danger of the air 
being heated from a low to a high temperature mainly by 
being breathed, a process that on grounds of health and 
effective work is to be avoided at all costs. Warmth must 
not be obtained at the cost of health and work. "It is 
futile," Dr. Shaw remarks, "to try to keep a room up to 



294 



FRESH AIR. 



60 F. with an open window supplying at 28 F. the unit 
of ventilation for each occupant. The law of convection 
insists in such a case that an extremely cold layer will be 
found near the floor and the reversed correlative of the 
therapeutic action of putting one's feet in hot water will 
be set up. If you depend on unwarmed air in very cold 
weather adopt the open-air system at once and provide 
appropriate clothing. Uniform and draughtless cold is 




TTT 



I I 



Fig, 16, CHIMNEY BREAST AIR OUTLET, 



not disagreeable to persons suitably clad. But marked 
differences of temperature applied to different parts of 
the body, like some other drastic remedies, should only be 



Aiii. 



295 



used by special prescription of a duly qualified medical 
man." 1 

4. The structural appliances for ventilation concern the 
architect and builder rather than the teacher, 

Appliances 5 ? et {i is desirable tnat the teacher should 
be fairly well acquainted with the various 
systems and devices adopted in order that, in any par- 
ticular case, he may make the most and best use of the 
system with which he has to work. 

The positions of the outlets and inlets is the first point 
to consider, and in determining this the 
natural flow of air in the room should be 
borne in mind. Breathed air rises toward the ceiling, and 



Outlets. 



ca 



Mica Flap 



lica Flap 



Mica Flap 



Fig. 17. BOYLK'S MICA FLAP VENTILATOR. 

it is good that it should do so, for it contains over one 
hundred times as much carbonic acid as fresh air. But 
since carbonic acid is a very heavy gas, the result of cooling 
will be the gradual descent of foul gas to the floor. It is 
desirable, therefore, that the heated foul air should escape 
before it cools and settles downward to the floor, and it is 
convenient to make use of the upward momentum of the 
air to help in its removal. 

Outlets, then, should be near the ceiling. These may be 
perforated bricks, ventilating shafts through the ceiling or 

1 Op. cit., p. 58. 



296 



FRESH AIR. 



passing up alongside the chimney stack, or open windows. 
The escape in the case of rooms occupied by large numbers 
of pupils should be aided by an additional motive power. 
Gas jets or small fans in the ventilating shafts, or a 
ventilating shaft warmed by being contiguous to the 
chimney, will induce a continuous flow. An opening into 
the chimney shaft itself may be provided, by which the 





Fig. 18. HINGED TOP TO WINDOW. 

strong upward current in the chimney will give rise to a 
continuous escape if the possibility of down draughts be 
avoided by the use of mica flap valves. 

Figs. 15, 16, and 17 are illustrations of the devices men- 
tioned above. 

For purposes of light, as well as for ventilation, the 
windows should extend to the top of the room. If ven- 
tilating shafts or perforated bricks be not provided near 
the ceiling, all the space above the windows simply acts as 



FRESH AIR. 



297 



a receptacle for heated foul air, which, when cooled, sinks 
gradually downward towards the scholars. Figs. 18, 
19, and 20 indicate some of the possible contrivances when 
windows are relied on for ventilation. Where no such 
devices exist the windows should be drawn down from 
the top. 

S/deV/eiv Front inside view 




Fig. 19. LOUVRE VENTILATOR. 

It must be remembered, however, that the cold surfaces 
of the windows in winter will create a considerable down 
draught, and if the windows extend to the ceiling the air 
coining down will be just the air that is not wanted in 
the lower part of the room. Hence it is advisable to place 
hot pipes under the windows to counteract the down draught 
by an upward current of warm air, or to double-glaze the 
windows. 

The inlets for fresh air should be in the lower part of 
the room, so that the incoming fresh air may 
not mix with the foul air in the upper part 
of the room. Obviously they should be above the pupils' 



Inlets. 



298 



FRESH AIR'. 



heads, and the current should be directed upward in order 
to minimise the draught, although convection will bring 

the air down if its tempera- 
ture is less than that of the 
air of the room. 

The devices adopted for 
inlets are usually Tobin's 
tubes or Sherringhani valves 
(see Figs. 21 and 22). If 
the lower sash of the window 
is opened, then a thick glass 
plate inclined from the win- 
dow should direct the current 
upward (see Fig. 23). 

Where rooms contain large 
numbers of 
children reli- 
ance cannot be 
placed solely on the natural 
flow of air due to the heat 
of breathing or of fires. 
Continuous flow and a con- 
tinuous source of energy are 
essential. If 2,000 cu. ft. be 
taken as the proper amount 
of fresh air per child every 
hour, then sixty children will 
require four tons of fresh air 
to be brought in, and four 
tons of foul air to be taken 
out every hour. Some of the motive force for this task is 
more or less constantly supplied by winds and heated air. 
But such forces are not always sufficient to cause a thorough 
and continuous exchange, especially in winter, when open 




Mechanical 
Ventilation. 



Fig. 20. THE C HADDOCK WINDOW. 



FRESH AIR. 



299 



Plenum and 

Vacuum 

Systems. 




Fig. 21. TOBIN'S TUBE. 



windows cannot always be relied on. Special motive force 
can sometimes be supplied by small fans and gas jets in the 
separate ventilating shafts 
for each room. In large 
schools, systems of mechan- 
ical ventilation by which 
the air is driven into all 
the rooms, or drawn out 
of them, by means of a 
large centrally-placed fan 
have been widely adopted. 
These systems of ventil- 
ation involve 
considerable _ 
structural 
accommoda- 
tion, and are, therefore, 
expensive to instal. The structure for mechanical ven- 
tilation consists of a large main inlet shaft, from which 
smaller ducts branch to each room. From each room 

there passes a second 
smaller duct, which 
enters a large main 
outlet shaft. The single 
fan can be placed either 
in the main inlet, and 
so drive air into all the 
rooms, or in the main 
outlet and draw air out 
of all the rooms. The former is known as the Plenum, the 
latter as the Vacuum, system. 

Obviously if air be driven in, its entrance is under control, 
but it will escape by any opening there may happen to be 
a special outlet, an open window, an open door, or 




Fig. 22. SHERRINGHAM VALVE. 



300 



FRESH AIR. 




miscellaneous chinks. On the other hand, if air be drawn 
out its entrance into the room is not under control. It 
will come in by any possible opening, 
specially constructed or otherwise. 
Where the air mainly escapes on the 
Plenum system, and mainly enters on 
the Vacuum system, depends on which 
openings offer least resistance to the 
flow of air. Open windows and doors, 
on account of their size, will naturally 
be preferred to the smaller openings 
specially provided. Little thought is 
needed to recognise the superiority of 
the Plenum system. It is obviously 
better to control the supply of in- 
coming air in order that it may be 
warmed, purified, and moistened, than 
merely to regulate the outgoing air 
and trust to chance to provide the air 
which is to be withdrawn. 

One grave defect of both systems is 
the ease with which the equitable dis- 
tribution of air to each room can be 
deranged. The main current of air 
entering divides into a number of 
streams, one for each room. These 
streams then unite into the main outgoing current. Ob- 
viously the resistance to the flow of air determines the 
amount of air-stream in each room, and this resistance 
varies inversely with the size of the openings. Where 
there is relatively small resistance the flow will be rela- 
tively great, and where the resistance is great the flow will 
be small. If, then, in any room the resistance to the flow 
is made unduly small by the largeness of the inlets and 





Fig. 23. DIAGRAM SHOW- 
ING AIR CURRENTS 
WITH WINDOWS OPEN 
AT TOP AND BOTTOM. 
INWARD CURRENTS 
DIRECTED UPWARDS 
BY INCLINED GLASS 
PLATE, 



FRESH AIR. 301 

outlets, or by open windows and doors, that room will at- 
tract by its small resistance an unduly large share of the 
air current. This is why the opening of windows and doors 
in schools ventilated by the Plenum and Vacuum systems 
immediately deranges the whole ventilation of the school ; 
for the room with an open window attracts the flow to the 
detriment of the remaining rooms. It has been found 
advisable, therefore, to have sealed windows, and to issue 
strict injunctions against leaving doors open in schools 
where either system is installed. 

The sealing of windows is one of the greatest defects 
of the mechanical systems of ventilation. In spring and 
summer the fresh air from open windows is a great boon. 
Air passing along shafts and flues seems to lose some of 
its freshness and invigorating properties. Moreover the 
flooding of rooms with fresh air from open windows and 
doors is an important means of purifying not only the 
air of the school, but its walls and furniture. Fresh 
air and plenty of it is a great purifier and invigorator. 
There are times, too, when the air in the school becomes 
too hot from injudicious warming, and the reduction of 
temperature when open windows and doors cannot be 
commanded is very slow and gradual. On all grounds it 
seems desirable to hold fast by our open windows and 
doors. 

This disadvantage of the Plenum and Vacuum systems 
can to a large extent be overcome by placing 

a motive P ower in both tne main inlet and 
the outlet shafts one to drive air in, the other 

to draw air out. It is clear that by such means air must both 
come in through the inlets and go out through the outlets. 
Both incoming and outgoing air are under control. Open 
doors and windows will not under such a system cause 
any serious derangement. Such a double system, called by 



302 FRESH AIR. 

Dr. Shaw the Zero-Potential, is much to be preferred to 
either of the single systems. 

The advocates of mechanical systems of ventilation 
claim for them many advantages. There 

and Defects is no doubt that > if tlie difficulty of open 
of the windows can be overcome, there is much to 

be said in their favour ' provided they are 
efficiently constructed and managed. The 
income of fresh air in the Plenum and Zero-Potential 
Systems is under control and can, with almost mathematical 
accuracy, be suited to the needs of each room by regu- 
lating the size of the inlets and outlets and the revolutions 
of the fans. The incoming air, too, can be heated to the 
desired temperature of 58 F. by being passed over hot pipes 
or through hot chambers. It can furthermore be purified 
by being passed through screens of rough hemp or jute or 
through coke filters, an operation much to be desired in 
some of the schools in our large manufacturing towns. 
Yet these benefits may through bad design or mismanage- 
ment become sources of serious trouble. 

The screens, unless cleansed and disinfected daily, become 
sources of disease and dirt. The conducting shafts, too, 
should be regularly cleaned, and it is better that they be 
lined with glazed bricks to prevent the undue accumulation 
of dust. 

The heating of the air may give rise to much trouble. 
Air passed through very hot chambers or over very hot 
pipes loses much of its vitality. It is uncertain what 
changes take place. Yet there is no doubt that the air so 
heated becomes deadened and devitalised. It has few of 
the stimulating properties of fresh air, and when breathed 
often causes headaches and more or less pronounced feel- 
ings of depression. 

Heated air, too, becomes very dry, even though it con- 



FRESH AIR. 303 

tains the same quantity of moisture as cold air. Humidity 
does not depend on the actual quantity of moisture in 
the air, but on that amount relative to the quantity re- 
quired to saturate the air, and the amount required to 
saturate air rises with the temperature. Air at 70 F. 
will hold four times as much moisture as air at 30 F. and 
twice as much as air at about 50 F. Hence if saturated 
air at 30 F. be heated to 50 F. it will contain only 50 per 
cent, of the moisture possible, and if further heated to 
70 F. only 25 per cent. Though at each temperature the 
actual amount of moisture present is the same, yet the 
saturated air at 30 F. would feel unpleasantly damp, the 
air at 50 F. a little dry, and that at 70 F. excessively dry. 
As has already been shown the relative humidity of the air 
influences the amount of evaporation from the skin. Too 
moist or too dry air disturbs tissue changes and affects 
health and vitality. Too dry air, moreover, gives to the 
skin a dry, rough feeling that is very unpleasant, and by 
its action on the delicate membrane of the throat and nose 
causes colds and catarrhs. Experience has shown that 60 
per cent, of humidity is the most suitable for health. 

A great disadvantage of ventilating rooms by means of 
heated air, then, is that the air is rendered too dry. Often 
the humidity of the air of schools warmed by heated air is 
reduced as low as 25 per cent. There are few people 
indeed who, working in rooms heated by hot air, do not 
have disagreeable feelings in the skin, and who are not 
liable to chills and to throat troubles owing to the great 
change of humidity and temperature experienced in passing 
from the inside to the outside air. Most people after living 
in the heated dry air of mechanically ventilated rooms 
on reaching the fresh outside air draw their breath with 
evident feelings of relief. Special means for moistening 
the heated air of mechanically ventilated buildings have 



304 FRESH AIR. 

generally to be provided. Usually water is kept running 
over the hemp screen or through the coke filter. Even 
then it is seldom that the air attains the necessary degree 
of humidity. 

When the ventilation is mechanical the teacher must 
always be a mere observer and often a passive sufferer. 
The system is essentially a centrally controlled distributing 
agency, and attempts at local adjustment only throw the 
whole arrangement out of gear. The central control of air 
and of heat should be in the hands of a capable man. 
Something more than a mere mechanic is needed. It is not 
mere engine- tending that is required, but the adjustment 
of a delicately balanced system that needs constant modifi- 
cation to the climate and to the needs of each class-room. 
There should, then, be appointed to control the system a 
man who thoroughly understands it and the various 
possibilities of air supply and of temperature. Managers 
should always keep in view the painful consequences of a 
breakdown or of any mismanagement of the system. 

The teacher, as has been said, can only be a passive 
observer. He must never interfere with the system him- 
self. But he can be of much help in giving information 
necessary for the adjustment of the distribution of air and 
heat. He should keep a constant watch on the temperature 
and the stuffiness of his room, and report immediately to 
the man in charge any deficiency of air or any undesirable 
temperature. It is his task, too, to test from time to time 
the humidity of the air by means of a wet and dry bulb 
thermometer. 

5. Throughout this discussion on ventilation we have 
endeavoured to keep before the teacher's 
mind the importance of fresh air in the 
school economy. Health, vitality, cheerful tone, and suc- 
cessful work may be jeopardised by ignorance or by neglect. 



FRESH AIR, 305 

We cannot too strongly urge all teachers to interest them- 
selves practically in the ventilation of their class-rooms 
and to know its utmost possibilities in all states of the 
weather. The following practical rules should earnestly 
be laid to heart : 

Open the windows at the top whenever the outside tem- 
perature is above 50 F. In warmer weather open them 
at the bottom as well. 

After each lesson give the pupils some active drill, during 
which the windows should be widely opened. 

During the recreation intervals and after school session, 
morning and afternoon, flush the rooms with fresh air 
from open doors and windows. 

Finally, watch carefully for listlessness, restlessness, 
inattention, and other signs of fatigue in the pupils, and 
constantly refer to the thermometers to estimate the 
condition of the air in the room. 

6. Important as it is to convert the teacher into a fresh- 
air enthusiast, it is equally important that 
Instruction of the pupils should share his enthusiasm. Un- 
VentilaSon. doubtedly the constant and unremitting 
attention of the teacher to fresh air will 
have its effects in the attitude of the pupils. They will 
become accustomed to breathing fresh " air, an experi- 
ence which, if sufficiently firmly established, will end in the 
longing for fresh air. The teacher should seize the many 
opportunities that are sure to present themselves to impress 
on his pupils the necessity of fresh air. He should train 
them to regard fresh air as being as essential to their well- 
being as food, cleanliness, and honesty. 

It must be remembered, however, that the whole question 

is a moral one. " Thou shalt not breathe foul air " has no 

doubt its scientific justification, but as far as conduct is 

concerned it is a moral injunction which must be impressed 

PHY. ED. 20 



306 FRESH AIR, 

upon the pupils' minds in every practical way, but mainly 
by the habits of the teacher and his attitude to the 
presence of foul air if it be discovered. No doubt instruc- 
tion on the effects of breathing and on ventilation will 
strengthen these educational forces, and pupils may be led 
to be deeply interested in carbonic acid gas and the laws 
of convection if suitable practical demonstrations are 
exhibited to them. But if such instruction only tends to 
awaken intellectual curiosity it is doing no good, but harm ; 
for it is training the pupils in the habit of regarding know- 
ledge as something intended only to satisfy intellectual 
curiosity, whereas the only knowledge worth having is 
that which influences conduct. 

The pupils should become co-workers and partners with 
the teacher in managing the ventilation of the room. By 
turn the older pupils should be responsible for opening 
the windows during recreation intervals and at the end of 
lessons. By turn, too, they should be allowed to observe 
the thermometers, the readings of which they should write 
publicly on the blackboard for all to see ; the teacher, of 
course, should explain why such readings are taken. The 
variations in the thermometer will provide good material 
for the teaching of graphic representation, after which a 
thermometric graph can be constructed daily by some 
responsible pupil and pinned in some public place. It is 
by entering fully and rationally into the * fresh air ' life of 
the school, by becoming convinced of its importance by the 
constant precept and example of all the teachers, by learn- 
ing its aim and methods by practical experience, that the 
pupils will come to make fresh air not merely something to 
write learnedly about, but a principle and an ideal woven 
into the woof of their daily habits. 



CHAPTER XL 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 

1. SCHOOL life has become largely life in a class-room 
in which the pupils spend most of their time 
School Life sitting in desks engaged in reading, writing, 
Activity 1 y drawing, sewing, or receiving oral instruction. 
They seem always to be chained by strong, 
though invisible bonds, to their desks. True, the monotony 
of it is at times varied by an excursion to the drill hall 
or to the workshop, and occasionally a teacher strives to 
still the restlessness of his charges by a few minutes' 
physical exercise, but in the main the custom of the schools 
is to do everything possible at the desks. What cannot 
be done there is too often looked at askance as a dis- 
turbance of the regular orderly routine of the school, 
something to be tolerated as the whim of an inspector or 
the fad of an official. There is unfortunately too much 
ground for the charge that school life is not so much 
adapted to the growing activities of the child as to the 
possibilities of the desk at which he sits. 

Some teachers there are, too, who, not satisfied with the 
unnatural repose of desk life, seek to prohibit all movement 
of tongue or limb, all motion of mind or body, except that 
expressly performed at the command of the autocrat of 
the class-room. They seek to impose a gloomy silence and 
a statuesque immobility by an iron rule. The Red Indians, 

307 



308 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

we are told, were trained to stand like statues, and the 
monks of the Middle Ages voluntarily adopted a life of 
asceticism in which the body was subjected to the soul. 
The methods, if not the ideals, of the Indians and the 
monks seem yet to be with us. Many are the children 
who, for five hours a day for ten years of their growing 
lives, sit mute and motionless, hardly daring to move lip 
or eyelid, to turn face or body, or even to think except 
when expressly bidden. The child life which should be 
one of gradually expanding powers of mind and body 
becomes one of repression of all activity, a life cramped 
and confined to a few mechanically performed motions that 
custom has handed down as traditional. 

With such a school life can it be wondered at that many 
of our children grow up stunted in body and with minds 
from which every spark of initiative has been stamped 
out ? Fortunate it is that Nature has implanted in the 
child an 'impulse to mental and bodily activity which is 
hard to kill. Repress it in school and, like a stream 
dammed back, it will burst forth with greater violence 
and with irresistible licence when school time is over. Let 
the school life be as unnatural as it will, the child, out of 
school, will find some vent for his pent-up curiosity and 
his instinctive love of action. 

" Order," some teachers say, " must be preserved in 
school." What a distorted and perverse idea of order it 
must be which rests on the negation of activity, of initiative, 
and of all the natural impulses of the child towards a life 
of action ! Order of any human kind surely is a method of 
doing, not of refraining from doing. School discipline should 
be the orderly activity of mind and body, not the Dead Sea 
stillness of mental and bodily stagnation. Work, action 
of mind and body, is the essence of a school life in touch 
with real life, and the orderly methodical direction of 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 309 

work and action towards ends of value is the spirit of its 
discipline. 

The child is not naturally silent and motionless. When 
left to his own instincts he is ever on the move, pulling 
things to pieces with a restless curiosity, probing with eyes 
and fingers into everything, exercising his powers of in- 
stinctive imitation and invention at every turn, making, 
constructing, playing the man in so far as he conceives him. 
His eyes and fingers are never idle, his body never still. 
Only the mentally dull and the physically sickly desire 
repose of mind and body. It is by the continual exercise 
of all his powers that the child develops, and fortunate it is 
that nature, in granting him powers of mind and body, 
has also instilled in him the impulse to use them. 

In the child and youth these instinctive powers develop 
mainly through bodily action in the active perception of 
things and in the using of them. If school life is to make 
the most and the best of youth it must not run counter to 
this natural tendency. School life should be largely a life 
of action. It should, however, seek to be more than play. 
If left to himself the child seeks pleasure and enjoyment ; 
incidentally his play may educate and develop his physical 
and mental nature. That is the way of unaided nature. 
The school, on the other hand, makes the development of 
his physical and mental powers of primary importance, but 
should develop these in such a way that the child gains 
pleasure. The school should not only draw out and 
exercise his active self, but should develop it to something 
higher, better, more rational and more self-conscious. 

Restless activity, curiosity, initiative, action, movement 
of body and mind are, then, the very breath of a school 
life in harmony with natural development. With the very 
young these begin in play for play's sake, but the school 
early seeks to turn play into work, aimless curiosity into 



310 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

educative interest, impulsive originality into rational pur- 
posive invention, random action and movement into skilled 
work. Such an aim cannot be fully realised by the seden- 
tary desk life of the class-room. 

2. Sedentary occupations, it has been seen, are hurtful 

to the body. 1 Circulation and respiration 
Evils .are thereby reduced to a minimum and the 

a S^Jntar vital processes of the body stagnate. The 
School Life. skin, liver, and kidneys become sluggish and 

the blood, retaining its impurities, paralyses 
the life processes and functional activity of all the tissues. 
Listlessness and irritability consequently result, and fatigue 
soon follows mental or bodily exertion. Harmful as a 
sedentary life is to the adult whose body is fully formed, 
it is doubly harmful to the growing child and youth. If, 
then, growth is not to be weak and stunted, if the body is 
to develop to the utmost of its capacity, it must be kept in 
active motion. 

Stunted in its vigour as the body becomes by the desk 

life of the schools, the injury to the mind is 

ec l ua % g reat - The bodv > & has been seen > 
is the servant of the mind, and the mind can 

only develop by the proper use of bodily activities. It is 
by the active use of his senses in seeing and handling and 
moving objects, and in the endeavour to gain this or that 
control over things in forming them to his will, that the 
child develops in mental power. Knowing a thing and 
knowing about a thing are not the same, though often mis- 
taken for each, other. 2 To know a thing is to be able to use 
it. Much of this kind of knowledge can only be obtained 
in practical action, in dealing with things in a practical 

1 Vide Chapter VIII., 1 and 2. 

2 Of. Welton, Principles of Teaching, Chapter I., pp. 9-10. 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 311 

way by an exercise of practical skill, a way not altogether 
consonant with, desk life. 

A desk life cramps the pupil's field of perception and 
action and thus warps his body and mind. 
Injury to By it his powers of sense and movement are 

Powersfof on ^ exerc i se( l i n tne narrow field of actions 
Movement. that can be performed in desks. Larger and 
stronger movements of the body and limbs, 
with their correlative perceptions, cannot come within the 
scope of desk life. It results that in the school life of to-day 
there is an over-encouragement of fineness in seeing and in 
doing. The eyes are too often and too long exercised over 
small and delicate work, the hand is too early used and too 
closely confined to small and fine work in writing, drawing, 
and sewing. Statistics only too plainly show the evil of 
such a course. Eye troubles are found to become increas- 
ingly prevalent as the school age advances evils that are 
mainly attributable to the long continued use of the eye 
over near and fine work at desks. Were all the bodily 
powers of sense and movement fully exercised in a judicious 
mixture of delicate and of broad larger actions, such evils 
would not follow. 

3. School life, then, should not be limited by the pos- 
sibilities of the desk. It should become 
Activity in broader and more active, and lend itself to 
the various the development of the larger skilled actions 

School ag wa Q as Q f fa e smaller and more delicate. 

Subjects. . 

Almost every subject has some part or aspect 

that calls for an active mode of learning. Arithmetic and 
geometry are essentially practical, though the practical 
side seldom finds its place in the school curriculum. The 
pupils should often l)e busy measuring the desks, the floor, 
the walls of class-room, hall, and staircase, and finding the 
area of the playground, the height of the school walls and 



312 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

of trees. For larger measurements excursions should be 
made to a neighbouring field or recreation ground. 

The progressive study of the country side, of its trees, 
shrubs, and flowers, and the surface of the land, presents 
numerous opportunities for out-of-door work. Visits to 
castle, church, abbey, and museum should bring history 
into real touch with the world. Carving, modelling, and 
handicraft are necessary branches of school study. Not 
only do they train the senses and skilled movement 
of both the larger and the finer orders, but they develop 
a sense of beauty and a knowledge of f orm that is very 
desirable. 

The school-yard, the gymnasium, and playing-field, if 
such exist, should be in constant use by some class or 
other for organised games and the more regular and 
intensive gymnastic exercises. There is thus very little 
reason, if the teacher takes a broad enough view of his 
work, uses his native ingenuity and initiative, and makes 
the most of his opportunities, why school life should be 
at all sedentary. The remedy lies in the teacher breaking 
away from traditional desk methods and taking a little 
trouble to encourage and to make use of the children's 
instinctive love of action. 

School life, then, if looked on widely as a practical 
training for a practical life cannot be wholly a life 
in the class-room. Indeed there should be no day in 
which the whole time is spent within its walls. Nor 
need the class-room life itself be wholly sedentary, with 
the consequent bodily stagnation. It should be the aim 
of the teacher not to have two consecutive lessons wholly 
desk lessons. Certainly no two consecutive lessons should 
be devoted to fine desk work such as reading, writing, 
drawing, or sewing. We have already recommended 
that every lesson should be followed by a few minutes' 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 313 

drill or music, both that the room may be flushed with 
fresh air, and that the bodily processes may be quickened 
and stimulated. 

Many exercises can be carried on as well standing 
as sitting. Breathing, enunciation, and pronunciation 
exercises in both music and reading lessons may with 
advantage be taken standing. Often, too, in oral lessons 
standing for a few minutes is a decided relief. Arithmetic 
and drawing lessons should not always be carried on 
with the children in desks, where the more delicate 
hand movements are employed and the eye is exercised 
over fine work. Wise authorities would provide suitable 
writing and drawing surfaces, by preference not black in 
colour, in some of the school class-rooms, so that pupils 
could take their places there standing for arithmetic and 
drawing practice. 1 Bolder, freer arm movements- would 
thus be trained, and the eye would not be injured by 
prolonged use over smaller and finer paper work. 

By such means the harmful desk life, so prevalent in 
our schools to-day, would be greatly reduced in amount. 
It cannot be wholly abolished, nor is that desirable. It 
has its place. The aim of the wise teacher should be to 
give it its proper place. Everywhere we should endeavour 
to bring school life into harmony with the natural forces 
urging the child to action. Thus school life would be 
freer and more active, and mental and bodily powers 
would develop more broadly and harmoniously than under 
the desk life so common in the schools of to-day. 

4. Pages have been written about the evils of school desks, 
and much ingenuity has been expended in endeavouring 
to devise a perfectly hygienic form of desk. It has, how- 
ever, been generally taken for granted that the prevalent 

1 See Welton, Principles of Teaching, Chap. XIV., 12. 



314 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

system of desk life will continue without modification. 

If school life is to be largely a desk life, 
Conditions then every means must be taken to prevent 
Healthy as manv evils as possible, and remedial 

Desk Life. measures must be devised to counteract 

those that cannot be removed. The main 
evil, however, lies in too prolonged and continuous use 
of desks. No ingenuity in desk adjustment or care in 
counteracting evils can turn what is eminently a sedentary 
life into an active one. We must chiefly urge that the 
nature of the school life should be changed. From being 
mainly a sedentary it should become largely an active one. 
No rational person can approve of a system of education 
that stunts the mind and deforms the body. The remedy 
for such a system is not to be found mainly in adjustable 
desks and in medicinal gymnastics, but rather in a funda- 
mental change in school life itself. 

Nevertheless, a wise care should be exercised in the choice 
and use of desks. Besides the general physical stagnation 
that follows from an abuse of desks, special bodily deformi- 
ties attend their careless use, especially when they are 
faulty in construction. These deformities are lateral cur- 
vature of the spine, restriction of the chest and abdomen, 
eye troubles, and a slouching and round-shouldered gait. 
It must be held, however, that these evils come from an 
abuse and not from a proper and careful use of desks, and 
the chief abuse is the long continued sitting and writing 
attitude. Cramped and strained attitudes do no harm if 
indulged in only occasionally. Yet it is obvious, in view 
of the evils arising from improper sitting, writing, and 
reading postures, that every care should be taken to choose 
suitable desks and every persistence used to train the pupils 
to sit and work at them in attitudes that will not lead to 
positive physical harm. 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 315 

In sitting and working at desks the body should be held 
upright to give freedom for the chest to ex- 
Sitting and paiid, and to prevent restriction and press- 
Writing , , . / , . m . 
Postures. ure ou the abdominal viscera. The abdomen 

contains many large arteries and veins, and 
pressure placed on these by stooping attitudes hinders the 
circulation and may lead to serious digestive troubles. To 
maintain an erect attitude with comfort and ease the body 
requires to be firmly supported by the back-rest, the seat, 
and the floor. Sitting upright without adequate support 
quickly tires the muscles of the back and shoulders. Even 
when the body is adequately supported long continued 
sitting will fatigue these muscles, and the shoulders 
will gradually become rounded and the back bent. 
Relief is sought in change of attitude by which the 
fatigued muscles can be rested. Standing, walking, 
moving the arms and body, are antidotes to long con- 
tinued sitting. 

The seat of the desk, then, should be of a form 
to aid upright postures. The back-rest 
sllou J d be sna pe<l to support the back and 
should hold it firmly just below the shoulder- 
blades. Grirls, it should be noted, need a higher support 
than boys. The thighs should be horizontal and the feet 
placed firmly on the floor, from which it is obvious what 
the height of the seat from the floor should be. The arms 
should hang loosely by the side or be placed loosely in 
front or clasped loosely behind. The evil practice of 
folding the arms tightly in front cannot be too strongly 
condemned. Yet, though its effects on breathing are plain 
to the slightest thought, the practice is still common. The 
arms folded behind is a position that is beneficial during 
short periods ; if long continued, however, it becomes very 
fatiguing. 



316 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

The form of writing- slope and its relation to the seat 

are extremely important if physical evils are 
for Writing. , -, -, i .T i 

to be avoided when the pupils are working 

at the desks. Stooping, lateral curvature, constriction of 
the abdomen and chest, and eye troubles, all arise from a 
neglect of these particulars. To encourage an erect carriage 
when the child is working at the desk, the writing- slope 
must not be too distant from the seat. The edge of the 
slope must almost abut on the abdomen when the body is 




Fig. 24. DESK AND SEAT AKRANGED IN MINUS POSITION. 

held upright. It will then be found that a line drawn 
vertically down from the edge of the slope will pro- 
ject over the edge of the seat by an inch or so. This 
is called the ' Minus Position ' (see Fig. 24). 

The height of the writing- slope from the floor should be 
such that the writing arm can be placed comfortably on 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 317 

the slope without raising the shoulder or stooping forward. 
If it be too high the spine is curved to the left, if too low 
the body is bent over the work. To prevent still further 
this latter posture the slope should be inclined at not less 
than 15 to the horizontal. 

A desk with seat and slope overlapping is clearly more 

suited for writing purposes than for reading, 
for Reading. . 

and standing movements in it are very much 

restricted. For reading purposes our aim should be to 
diminish the risk of eye troubles by preventing stooping 
and bending the head. The book should be inclined at 
about 60 to the horizontal, and should be at least twelve 
inches from the eye. To fix this position for reading 
many desks are arranged so that the front half of the top 
turns up into a reading- slope at a suitable angle and at an 
appropriate distance from the eye. Such a form has many 
objectionable features. A slope with a marked crack 
across it is undesirable in writing, and necessitates a 
writing-pad when sheets of paper are used. The danger 
to children's fingers is considerable. Such a reading- slope, 
too, is unsuited to the methods of work the older pupils 
should adopt. Much of their desk work requires reading 
and writing to go on together. For work of this kind a 
light metal reading- slope which can be moved to any dis- 
tance is to be preferred. For ordinary reading lessons 
the pupils can hold their books in their hands, as they 
and other people do in ordinary life, keeping them 
well away from the eyes. 

For the pupils to stand at the desks with comfort and to 

get in and out of them with ease some device 

must be adopted. Some forms of desk attain 

this end by a writing- slope that moves backwards and 

forwards in a horizontal direction ; others by means of a 

seat that can revolve upward. Difficulty, however, only 



318 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

presents itself in an acute form in dual desks. With 
single seats the possibility of free movement is much 
greater. Dual desks are on several grounds objectionable. 
Doctors condemn them in that they conduce to the spread 
of disease ; teachers in that they make independent work 
difficult. Single desks are on all grounds but expense 
much to be preferred, failing which the form of a long 
desk with a separate seat for each pupil has a great deal 
to be said for it. It is more convenient to the teacher 
in examining work to be able to pass behind every pupil 
than to pass up the rows between the desks. 

The form of desk, then, must satisfy many requirements. 

It must be suited to the stature of the pupils, 
Desks suited b e convenient for writing and reading, and 
of Pupils. allow freedom of movement in standing. 

The greatest difficulty lies in providing desks 
to meet the various statures of pupils in the same class. 
Pupils of the same age may vary even as much as twelve 
inches in stature. Many desk-makers supply desks with 
adjustable slopes, seat, and back-rest, and many educational 
experts recommend them. Their recommendation, how- 
ever, is generally on the assumption that school life is to 
be largely a sitting life. Sitting and writing at desks, as 
has been seen, should not form so large a part of school 
routine, and hence the necessity for fine and precise adjust- 
ment to stature does not arise. It is wise to fit the desk 
approximately to the pupils. Exactitude to an inch or 
so is immaterial if the desks are not in constant use. It 
is long-continued postures that fix in the physical frame 
the evils of sitting and writing. At least four sizes of 
desks should be provided in an elementary school, and 
three of them should be found in every class-room, so that 
the large and small children may find equal comfort and 
health with those of medium size. 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 319 

However accurately the desks be fitted to the pupils, 
physical evils will still follow a bad use 

?^ in f the of them. Unhealthy postures are, in practice, 
Habit of . -i-ii i -i 

Sitting and as frequent in good desks as in bad ones. 

Writing in The enthusiasm of the doctors, the ingenuity 
Postures. ^ tne desk-makers, and the money of the 

ratepayers seem to be of little avail in face 
of the neglect of the teacher and the perversity of the 
scholar. 

Symmetry of attitude is alien to the instincts of the 
young, who love continual motion and change. The 
natural genius of the child finds its delight in curious 
contortions and strained positions. In his efforts at 
writing and drawing he screws his head round, works his 
tongue in and out, curls up his legs, and twists his body. 
An erect attitude, square to the desk, seems the last one 
he will adopt of his own accord. Such contortions and 
postures, however, are largely involuntary and unconscious. 
The motor impulse to write spreads itself out over his 
frame without control or restraint. There is wasteful 
profusion of movements, many of which hinder each other. 
In learning to write and to draw the child has not merely 
to gain control over the muscles that are directly concerned 
in making the strokes and curves, but has also to inhibit 
the involuntary motor impulses to the rest of the body. 
Perfection in inhibition is as slow and as gradual of 
attainment as in direct control of movement. The inhibi- 
tion of irregular movements and improper postures must 
go on persistently and continuously until control over the 
general bodily attitude is automatic. 

Training in correct posture must begin and proceed 
with the teaching of writing. It is as important a part 
of the teaching of writing as is the training in the control 
of the pen and pencil. In the early years of school life 



320 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

the correct attitude should be shown to the pupils at the 
beginning of each writing lesson. Posture drill is at 
least as necessary as pen drill. But, as in teaching all 
other kinds of practical conduct, merely talking about 
a thing is of little use, and the formal and somewhat 
artificial practice in preparatory drill is by itself not much 
better. These are but preventive and precautionary 
measures. The real learning by the pupils is done in 
their practice under actual writing conditions, when their 
attention is divided between making the letters and 
maintaining the correct attitude. During the learning to 
write, then, constant and persistent effort must be made 
by the pupils in maintaining the correct position, and 
this demands as constant and persistent an effort by 
the teacher in watching and correcting each individual 
child. 

The training of a good writing posture rests almost 
entirely with the teacher. We are firmly of the belief that, 
though some of the common evils are due to imperfect desks, 
more are the result of the neglect of the teacher. Certainly, 
if stooping and slouching are at all general throughout a 
class, we should be inclined to attribute the fault to the 
carelessness of the teacher rather than to the imperfection 
of the desks. 

An erect position, square to the desk, necessitates the 
adoption of an upright style of writing. 

AU sl p in g st ^ les tend to twist the bod y 

and to hinder direct vision, and in them the 
pen is held in a more cramped and fatiguing way than is 
required by the upright style. Sloping styles, moreover, 
have the further disadvantage of not being as legible as 
the upright style. 

In writing the latter style the paper should be placed 
square with the desk and directly in front of the pupil. 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 321 

The right arm should rest comfortably on the desk and 
the hand lightly on its side. The support provided in this 
way by the hand, wrist, and little finger will not only 
make writing less fatiguing, but give freedom of move- 
ment to the pen. It will be seen that the pen, instead of 
pointing to the shoulder as in writing the sloping style, 
points outside the shoulder. 

The muscles of the fingers should not be strained in 
grasping the pen. Straining the fingers and gripping the 
pen only result in stiff, cramped, and stilted writing. 
A light easy hold gives freedom of movement. No 
strict rules concerning the holding of the pen should be 
laid down to be rigidly followed. Each individual, though 
conforming to some general form of posture, has his own 
peculiar way of obtaining ease, comfort, and freedom of 
movement. Moreover hands are not all formed on one 
model. Proportions vary a good deal, and this gives a 
strong reason for individual variations of the general mode 
of holding the pen. Thus, provided the posture be a 
healthy one and the writing legible, it matters little what 
idiosyncrasies of position and holding the pen each pupil 
adopts. 

The position of the left arm is an important factor in 
maintaining a healthy erect attitude. The left arm should 
help to support the body and is needed to keep the paper 
firm for writing. For these purposes the arm from the 
elbow to the wrist should be placed near to and parallel 
with the front edge of the desk, with the hand lightly 
spread over the bottom of the paper or book. Only with 
the left arm in this position can an upright attitude be 
maintained for long. On no account must the pupils 
be permitted to slide the left elbow up the desk or to lean 
the head on the left hand. Both these attitudes are lazy, 
slouching, and harmful. 

PHY. ED. 21 



322 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

5. Standing, as has been suggested, should be an attitude 

in frequent use in the class-room. Indeed 

<?t sit i? n "* there are many kinds of work that are better 

performed when the pupils are standing than 

when sitting. During singing and oral reading the chest is 

more free to expand when a standing posture is adopted. 

In the larger movements of the arm and shoulder used in 

free-arm drawing, writing, and figuring, a standing position 

gives the best action. 

As in writing and sitting, so in standing and in walk- 
ing, the most suitable posture is that which gives the 
freest play to the chest, the least constriction to the abdo- 
men, and the firmest and easiest support to the body and 
head. The body should be held firmly and easily on the 
legs, the feet being placed somewhat apart, and for long- 
continued standing one slightly in advance of the other. 
The knees should be braced back so that there is a feeling 
of power and elasticity in the support given by the legs. 
The body should then be capable of free yet well-controlled 
movements to right and left, and of being poised on the 
toes with perfect ease. Indeed, to raise and lower the body 
on the toes easily and freely is a fairly good test of a firm 
standing position, and the practice of such a movement is 
very beneficial in strengthening those muscles of the legs, 
body, and neck that are used in maintaining an upright 
carriage. 

Firmly yet easily supported on the thighs, the body 
should be held upright, the chest out, the shoulders back, 
and the abdomen in. The head should not be bent forward, 
but held erect, a position very important in reading and 
singing exercises, when free action of the larynx and un- 
restricted breathing are required. In free-arm drawing 
and figuring the pupils should be almost at arm's length 
from their work, so that the large sweeping movements of 



BODILY ATTITUDES. 323 

the arm and shoulder can be practised. Mere wrist action 
is unsuited to blackboard work. 

6. In every posture in sitting, writing, or standing an 
erect upright carriage is most desirable. Any 
Exercises tendency to stooping over work, slouching, 

rounded shoulders, or bending the head for- 
ward should be corrected. An upright carriage naturally 
brings into action the extensor muscles of the back and 
neck. Fatigue or weakening of these muscles causes the 
body to stoop and the head to incline forward. Obviously, 
then, it is desirable to strengthen these muscles in every 
possible way, and at the same time not to fatigue them by 
maintaining one attitude, either in sitting or in standing, 
for too long a time. Standing, and arm and body move- 
ments, are as great a relief after sitting or writing as 
sitting is after prolonged standing. Hence it is good after 
a sitting lesson to have a few minutes' active physical 
exercise and to follow a sedentary lesson by one of a more 
active nature. 

The physical exercises after a sitting lesson should be 
devised so as to counteract the evil results of sitting. 
They should be active enough to promote circulation and 
respiration, should expand the chest, and help to brace the 
body into a firm and erect, yet free and elastic position. 
Raising and lowering the body on the toes, combined with 
deep inspiration and controlled expiration, bending the 
body backwards, extending the arms outwards or above 
the head, and forcing them slowly behind the back are 
suitable forms of remedial exercises. These and other 
exercises will do much to counteract the evils attending 
desk work. 

Yet, as has been insisted on throughout, school life should 
not be organised on a plan that necessitates medicinal 
treatment as an integral part of its methods. School life 



324 BODILY ATTITUDES. 

should be healthy in itself, and so should be to a large 
extent a life of action. The remedy then for the evils of 
desk work, we must insist again, is not to be found chiefly 
in adjustable desks and remedial exercises, but in com- 
bining with the desk work a suitable amount of physical 
activity in the playgrounds, gymnasium, playing-fields, and 
workshops. These are the natural antidotes to sedentary 
pursuits. Still further may the evils be avoided by adopt- 
ing the standing attitude in lessons that permit of it, in 
instituting class work at wall blackboards, and in insisting 
on a healthy posture being maintained whenever work at 
desks is being done. 



CHAPTER XII. 



THE CARE OF THE EYE. 

1. THE child is born with unperfected bodily powers. It 
has organs of sense, movement, and of organic 
^ e ^at are undeveloped and immature, but 
which possess possibilities of perfection that 
may or may not be realised. How far the organs develop 
the full measure of their capacity depends on the kind of 
work they are called on to do during the period of growth. 
Exercise is the only royal road to development, but 
it may be a development of deformity and weakness, 
not one of full strength and power. Overwork ex- 
hausts and weakens, and work of a one-sided and limited 
character will deform. For growing organs are plastic. 
Growth requires that they be so. But in this very 
plasticity there lies a grave danger. In performing its 
work an organ is put under a certain amount of stress 
and strain, and being plastic it tends to adapt itself to the 
kind of work it is forced to do. With varied wor^: of suit- 
able quantity the organ grows to strength and to a power 
of functioning of a wide order ; confined to work of a one- 
sided and limited character it is strained to deformity, and 
when it reaches maturity is incapable of exercising the 
full measure of its original capacity. 

The harm, however, is not confined to any one organ. 
The organs of the body are so dependent 011 each other in 
carrying out the work of the organism that conditions of 

325 



326 THE CARE OP THE EYE. 

work detrimental to the full growth of one organ are 
detrimental to all those that work in correlation with it. 
As has already been shown in the previous chapter, when 
the action of the muscles is restricted to work of a fine and 
delicate kind, not only do the muscles themselves suffer 
from want of sufficiently vigorous work, but the whole 
organism is injured to some extent by the inactivity. The 
vital organs stagnate for lack of a stimulus to circulation 
and respiration. The motor centres for the larger move- 
ments of the body and limbs remain undeveloped, and the 
correlative perceptions of sight, touch, and movement that 
are needed in the performance of the larger and more 
vigorous work of life are not experienced. The eye, too, is 
limited in its action to objects at short range, and eye 
defects follow. 

Speaking, then, of the body as a whole, the sense organs, 
the mechanism of movement, as well as the organic system, 
will develop harmoniously by means of exercise, wise and 
judicious in character, widely varied in its nature and 
appropriate in quantity. Insufficient and inappropriate 
exercise will stunt both mental and bodily growth ; over- 
work will weaken ; one-sided work will deform. And this 
principle of growth applies to the eye equally with every 
other organ of sense or movement. 

2. The eye is a sense organ that is imperfectly constructed 
at birth. Being more or less plastic, it will 
School Life become at maturity a normally perfect eye, 
Defect^ 6 capable of performing the work usually de- 

manded of it, only if it is used in a wise and 
judicious manner during the period of its growth. Un- 
fortunately the school life of to-day is detrimental to the 
proper growth of the eye. All observers are agreed that 
as school age advances the proportion of short-sighted 
eyes among school children increases. Defects begin to 



THE CARE OF THE EYE. 327 

show themselves even in the infant school. As many as 
two per cent, of infant school children have developed 
short sight, and by the end of school life at fourteen years 
of age that proportion has increased to fifteen per cent. 

In his examination of the eyesight of children in the 
schools of the London County Council Dr. Kerr found 
that as many as fifteen per cent, of seven-year-old children 
had moderate deficiency of vision, while four and a half 
per cent, had distinctly bad sight. At the age of eight 
these numbers had increased to sixteen and seven respec- 
tively. This increase of short sight as the school age 
advances points clearly to the hypothesis that the con- 
ditions of school life are, at any rate to some extent, 
responsible for eye defects. At the same time those 
causes of ill-health and stunted physique that are opera- 
tive in the home life of the children must have their share 
in causing weakness of the eyes. 

There can be little doubt that during school life the 
eyes of the pupils are misused to a considerable extent. 
They become deformed by being used for work of a one- 
sided nature. The eye of childhood is capable of con- 
siderable range of work, a range larger indeed than that 
of an adult's eye. But perfect growth requires that it be 
not used too often and too continuously for delicate fine 
work at a short range. It is just this kind of work, how- 
ever, that modern school life forces on the eye. In the 
class-room the eyes are required to adjust themselves to 
two ranges only, from ten to thirty feet in oral lessons 
and from ten to eighteen inches in desk work. Work at 
this latter short range is, moreover, usually of a fine and 
delicate kind and compels the pupils to peer closely at 
their work and to bring it as near as possible to their eyes. 
Writing, reading, sewing, pencil drawing, painting, and 
many forms of hand and eye training are all of this character. 



328 THE CARE Of THE EYE. 

Such work is not wholly unsuited to the power of the 
child's eye. Occasional exercise at fine and delicate work 
would do no harm ; for the eye, like all organs, has a 
wonderful recuperative power. It cannot, however, with- 
stand the strain of long continued and persistent exercise 
of one limited type. Prolonged use of the eye at short 
ranges and upon delicate and fine work will result in 
deformity. 

3. To understand how deformity is brought about it is 

necessary to grasp, in main outline, the 

theEe* 6 structure of the eye and the movements 

made by it in performing its work at 

different ranges. 

The eye is a delicate, living optical instrument for con- 
centrating rays of light on a sensitive, nervous 
The Eye an surface. The principle of its structure is 
Instrument very similar to that of the photographic 
camera. Just as the lens of the camera 
focuses an image of a scene on the sensitive plate at the 
back of the darkened box, so the lens of the eye focuses an 
image on the sensitive nervous surface the retina that 
lines the hinder portion of the interior walls of the eye- 
ball. These two portions the lens and the retina are 
the essential structures. The remaining parts are either 
protective, or are used for adjusting the eye to different 
ranges of work or to light of varying intensity. 

The eye is spherical in shape, and its outer layer is 

a thick, tough, protective coat called the 

Absorptive, sclerotic. It is by means of this layer that 

and Sensitive the eye maintains its fixed shape, all the 

Coats of the internal structures being more or less viscid 

or fluid. Except in front, where it bulges 

slightly and is transparent to admit light, the sclerotic is 

white and opaque. Attached to the inner side of the 



THE CARE OF THE EYE. 



329 



sclerotic is a thinner coat, the choroid, carrying numerous 
blood-vessels to nourish the parts of the eye, and black 
with a dark pigment. Like the camera, the eye must have 
black interior surfaces to absorb scattered rays. Internal 
reflexion of light rays does not permit of the formation of 



CILIARY 

MUSCL 




AQUEOUS 
HUMOUR 



CHOROID COAT 

Fig. 25. 



VITREOUS 

HUMOUR 
SCLEROTIC 
COAT 

RETINA 



OPTIC NERVE 



a clear, sharp, ancfr distinct image. Within the second 
layer the fibres of the optic nerve, which enters the eyeball 
from behind, spread themselves out to form the sensory 
nervous surface which receives the impressions of light. 
Immediately behind the cornea is fixed the lens, a 
transparent, double-convex, gelatinous body 
enclosed in a kind of bag, by which it is 
attached all round its edge to the interior 
wall of the eye-ball. Filling the remaining 
part of the interior of the eye-ball, supporting 
the lens in its place, and maintaining the 
spherical shape of the eye, is a transparent substance 
jelly-like behind the lens and called the vitreous humour, 
more fluid in front and called the aqueous humour. Placed 
between the lens and the cornea is a kind of curtain, called 
the iris, circular in shape, with a central hole to admit 
light, called the pupil see (Fig. 25). 



Refractive 
Media the 
Lens, Aqueous 
Humour, and 
Vitreous 
Humour. 



330 THE CARE OP THE EYE. 

Looked at from the front the eye shows the central 
space, the pupil, black, because behind it is the dark 
pigmented inner lining of the eye. Through the pupil all 
rays of light must enter the eye. Round it is the variously 
coloured iris, a curtain capable of becoming larger or 
smaller according to the intensity of the light. External 
to the iris is the white of the eye, which is the front part 
of the opaque, tough integument, the sclerotic. 

4. The sensory surface for receiving the light rays, the 

retina, is not equally sensitive over the whole 
Movements of ., T ,, ,, 

the Eye. o * " s area - I n each eye there is one small 

part directly behind the pupil that is more 
perfectly discriminating to rays of light than any other 
portion. On this specially sensitive part are focussed the 
images of objects closely examined and defi- 
nitely observed. It is obvious, then, that if 
the images of objects both near and far, to 
right or left, above and below, have severally to be focussed 
on the sensitive spot in each eye, the eyes must be 
capable of fairly wide and free movement in all directions. 
The axes of the eyes must converge on the object being 
examined wherever within the range of sight that object 
may be situated. In reading, for example, the axes of the 
eyes converge in succession upon each word as the eyes, 
turning from left to right, follow the print along the line. 
Then, as the eyes pass from line to line, they move down- 
ward, and the axes converge in succession upon the words 
in the next line. 

The eye-balls thus have considerable power of movement. 
They can move up or down, to right or left, or roll with a 
circular motion. By these movements the eyes can direct 
themselves on any object in front of them without the 
head being moved, or, when the head is moving, can keep 
themselves fixed on the object being examined. Moreover, 




THE CARE OF THE EYE. 331 

each eye moves in correlation with the other, so that the 

axes can be kept converged on the object wherever the 

object may be, or whatever be 

the relative motion of eyes and 

object. Clearly, when the ob- 

ject is near, the convergence 

of the axis is great, the eyes 

being pulled inward towards 

each other. When the object 

is distant, the convergence is 

small, the axes of the eyes being Fi s- 26, MUSCLES OF THE EYE. 

, n n T S.O., Superior Oblique ; I.O., In- 

practically parallel. fer ior Oblique ; S.R., Superior 

The above movements of the 5M=JSSL? llll>i 
eye-ball are carried out by six 

muscles which are attached to the exterior surface of 
the sclerotic on the one hand, and to the bony framework 
of the socket on the other. The above diagram (Fig. 26) 
shows the position of these muscles, and from it the possi- 
ble movements of the eyeball are easily grasped. 

Before a definite and clear image can be obtained a 
further adjustment is necessary. In taking 

Focussing a photograph, in order to obtain a clear 

Adjustment. . * ' 

image, the distance from the lens to the 

sensitive plate has to be adjusted to the distance of 
the object from the camera. This adjustment the operator 
makes by moving the lens nearer to, or farther from, the 
plate. In the eye, however, the adjustment for distance is 
performed in a different manner. In forming an image of 
an object on the retina the rays of light from any point on 
the object diverge from the point to the eye, and are then 
turned out of their path by means of the refractive substances 
of the eye the cornea, aqueous humour, the lens, and the 
vitreous humour. By this means the rays originally diver- 
gent are brought to a focus on one point of the retina. 



332 THE CAttE OF THE EYE. 

The initial divergence of the rays clearly depends on 
the distance of the object from the eye. Rays from 
objects close to the eyes have considerable divergence ; 
from distant objects the divergence of the rays is so little 
that the rays may be considered as parallel. Indeed, for 
all practical purposes, rays from objects over twenty feet 
distant may be treated as parallel. 




Fig. 27. NORMAL EYE RECEIVING RAYS FROM NEAR OBJECT AND BRINGING THEM 

TO A FOCUS ON THE RETINA BY INCREASING THE THICKNESS OF ITS LENS 

(ACCOMMODATION). 

Since the eye has to deal with both the divergent rays 
from near objects and the practically parallel rays from 
distant objects, it must possess the power of accom- 
modating itself to distance. The refractive power of the 
eye must become greater as objects approach nearer than 
twenty feet. This necessary alteration in refractive power 
is secured by the lens changing its form, according to the 
distance of the objects being observed. By means of a 
small muscle inside the eye the enveloping integument of 
the lens can be relaxed or tightened. In this way the 
lens can alter its shape and obtain greater or less refractive 
power. In approaching an object which the eye is 
examining, the lens gradually becomes more and more 
convex in order to increase its refractive power so as to 
bring the increasingly divergent rays to a focus on the 
retina. There comes, however, a point where the lens 
reaches its utmost limit of convexity, beyond which it 
cannot go. Usually objects nearer than six inches to the" 
eyes cannot be clearly imaged. 



THE CARE OF THE EYE. 333 

5. The power of the eye to accommodate itself to distance 

depends, however, not only on the adjusta- 

' bility of the lens, but also on the shape of 

the eye, or, to speak more correctly, on the distance of the 




Fig. 28. NORMAL EYE RECEIVING PARALLEL RAYS (FROM DISTANT OBJECTS) AND 

BRINGING THEM TO A FOCUS ON THE RETINA. 

lens from the specially sensitive area on the retina. In a 
normally perfect eye parallel rays that is, 

The Normal ravg f rom objects at a distance of more than 
twenty feet can be focussed on the retina 

without accommodation. The lens in its relaxed state of least 




Fig. 29. SHORT-SIGHTED EYE RECEIVING RAYS FROM DISTANT OBJECT. 

These rays are focussed in front of retina and so produce a blurred picture on 

the retina, 

convexity has just sufficient converging power to form a 
clear image of such objects on the retina. Obviously, 
then, in the examination of objects nearer than twenty feet 
the les must become increasingly convex. 

Two defects of eye structure are thus possible. The eye 
may be more elongated or natter than the normally shaped 
eye, and each of these shapes will lead to different kinds of 
defects of vision. 



334 THE CARE OF THE EYE. 

In the elongated eye parallel rays are not focussed on 
the retina but in front of it, and hence a 

T . h ? J S ^!?~ blurred indistinct image is formed on the 
sighted Eye. , . . 

retina. The lens tor this shape or eye has 

evidently too great a refractive power. It cannot, however, 
become less convex. So, except by means of glasses of 
diverging power, distant objects cannot be seen distinctly. 
Nearer objects, however, can be focussed with ease, for the 
fault is a refractive power too great for the shape of the 
eye. Hence as objects get nearer the rays become more 
divergent and the lens becomes capable of focussing them 
on the retina without artificial aid. This kind of eye is 
known as the short-sighted eye. Without diverging glasses, 
objects at a greater distance than twenty feet are indistinctly 
seen. Nearer objects, however, are clearly imaged. 

In the eye of natter shape than the normal parallel rays 
would, without accommodation, be focussed 
The Long- a ^ a point behind the retina. Hence, to se- 
cure a distinct image the lens must obtain a 
greater refractive power by becoming more convex. Also 
the nearer the object comes to the eye the more convex 
must the lens become. Thus in this type of eye the lens 
has to adjust its shape to all distances great and small. 
Clearly, however, the nearer an object is brought to the eye 
the greater strain will be placed on the focussing muscle, 
until there finally comes a point beyond which further 
accommodation is impossible. The lens has reached its 
utmost limit of convexity. Objects nearer than this can- 
not be distinctly seen unless glasses which cause the rays to 
converge still further be used. This kind of eye i$ long- 
sighted. To see near objects requires greater strain than 
to see distant ones. 

6. It is obvious from the above analysis that eyes which 
have become short-sighted from overwork have become 



THE CARE OF THE EYE. 335 

deformed in shape. They have become more elongated, 

so that distant objects cannot be focus sed on 
Causes of the retina, and the shape of the eye has be- 

Vizion. come adapted to near work only. When this 

result is induced it must evidently be due to 
forces acting on the eye when it is used constantly for near 
work. In examining an object near to the eyes, the eyes are 
pulled inward towards each other by muscles acting on the 
sclerotic coat. In childhood this coat is plastic. It has 
not yet hardened and stiffened into its adult form. Its 
shape is capable of being distorted by the stresses and 
strains produced by the muscles pulling the eyes inwards 
to converge the axes on near objects. From occasional 
strain, of course, recovery is easy. It is the continual and 

prolonged strain from hour to hour day 
Use of Eyes after day during the years of growth that 
Ltelicate'work. distorts the eye permanently, so that as the 

sclerotic gradually hardens the eye becomes 
incurably deformed into an elongated short-sighted eye. 

The eye of childhood, unless distorted by overwork at 
near objects, is not naturally short-sighted but actually 
long-sighted. Its shape is flatter than the normal adult 
eye. This might be expected. Having to undergo strain 
in its plastic period of growth, the eye begins its life with 
a shape flatter than the normal eye, so that the strain of 
convergence incidental to ordinary eye work at varied dis- 
tances will, by maturity, have reduced its shape to the normal. 
It is only when convergence on near objects becomes un- 
duly prolonged and strenuous that an elongation beyond 
the normal is produced and permanent short sight results. 
The deformity of short sight is, therefore, due to the 
plastic nature of the outer coating during childhood and 
youth. This coating gradually stiffens and hardens as the 
child grows older, so that the nearer the youth approaches 



336 THE CARE OF THE EYE. 

maturity the more capable is the sclerotic of resisting 
strain. Should the eye reach maturity without distortion 
its shape is then fixed permanently, and in all probability 
no deformity will show itself till old age brings weakness 
and decay. It is during the years of plasticity that 
damage is done by the eyes being used for near and 
delicate work, and the earlier in life such work is begun 
the greater is the probability of injury resulting. The 
time for using the eyes more continuously on near and fine 
work is when the sclerotic coat becomes harder than it is 
in early childhood. But it is not till adult life is reached 
that risk of deformity is reduced to a minimum. 

Other circumstances besides excessive and unsuitable 

work are conducive to deformity of the eves 
Poor Health. ^ J . , 

Every organ, as has been seen, is dependent 

for its strength and power on the general vitality of 
the organism. In states of general fatigue and weak- 
ness, bad nutrition and disease, the tissues of the eye, 
like all other tissues, suffer from the poverty and im- 
purity of the blood stream. The muscles of the eye lose 
their strength and are more quickly fatigued, and head- 
ache, dizziness, and eye-spasm are frequently the result of 
even moderate exertion of the eyes. The protective coat- 
ing becomes more flabby and less resistant, and the eyeball 
is thus more liable to distortion from prolonged con- 
vergence. It is, therefore, advisable that anaemic, badly 
nourished children, and children recovering from illness, 
should be relieved as much as possible from eye work of an 
exacting and near character. 

Conditions that promote general fatigue of the system 
Unhealthy are a ^ so m j ur i us to eyesight. Breathing 
Conditions foul air, insufficient exercise, excessive mental 
of Work. work have their effects in weakening the 

tissues of the eye and thus rendering them more liable 



THE CARE OP THE EYE. 337 

to distortion under strain. On the other hand, good food, 

fresh air, and exercise strengthen the eyes. 

Especially during the period of rapid growth is care 
needed in using the eyes. The body in 
growing rapidly makes great demands on 

Periods of the system, often greater than the blood 

5 ap ^i, stream can meet. Frequently weakness re- 

Growth. 

suits, sometimes ot a temporary character, 

though too often the injury is permanent. During this 
time of stress the seeds of nervous debility, digestive 
troubles, consumption, and anaemia, are planted in the 
system. Clearly, to meet rapid growth the body needs 
good nourishment, fresh air, exercise suitable in quantity 
and character, sleep, and periods of mental and bodily 
relaxation, while excessive mental and bodily work should 
be avoided. Fatigue is rapidly produced during this period, 
and may become a chronic condition. The eye, like all the 
other organs, suffers in the general debility. Eye fatigue, 
headache, and dizziness are very common among children 
at this period of life, and excessive study during this time 
may easily lead to permanent eye deformity. 

7. The above examination into the cause of eye defects 
points out clearly the nature of the remedy. 
Prevention This, as in the case of general physical 
Troubles stagnation and the other physical defor- 

mities, should not simply be medicinal and 
curative, but preventive. 

The methods of school life must undergo a considerable 
change to bring them into harmony with 
General the development of the child's physical 

Schoomfe f nature. School life, we have throughout in- 
sisted, should be such that the pupils benefit 
in mind and body. School methods that bring weakness 
and deformity in their train cannot but be out of harmony 
PHY. ED. 22 



338 THE CARE OF THE EYE. 

with the line of the child's natural development. Methods 
of learning should not weaken but strengthen, should not 
abuse but use wisely and well, the organs of sense and 
movement. Moreover, as has already been pointed out, 
the conditions of life injurious to one organ are detri- 
mental to the full and broad development of all those 
other organs of sense and movement that have to work in 
correlation with it. A school life injurious to one organ 
is most likely too limited and restricted in its scope for 
the full development of both mental and bodily powers 
and is probably injurious to the general health. 

The methods in general use at the present day err in 
forcing the child to use his eyes too often and for too long 
periods at delicate work at short ranges, and in compelling 
him to begin such work too early in life. The reforms 
suggested in the last chapter apply equally to the needs of 
the eye. 

The school life should be organised so as to demand a 
wider and freer exercise of the bodily powers as a whole. 
The larger and stronger movements of the body and limbs 
should receive equal and earlier attention than the finer 
and more delicate movements of the hand and fingers. 
Limiting physical activity to the latter kind of movement 
restricts the use of the eye to near objects, and hence not 
only do the motor centres for the larger bodily movements 
remain insufficiently developed, but the eye tends to be- 
come distorted. On the other hand, the skilled practical 
activity that requires the use of the body and limbs in 
larger movements exercises the eye at longer ranges, and 
eye troubles do not result. 

A school life, then, planned to develop fully and broadly 
the child's practical instincts and to train a wide variety 
of skilled actions, both the larger and the more delicate, 
will give a greater variety of scope to the work of the eye. 



THE CARE OF THE EYE. 339 

The eye will consequently tend to develop more on normal 
lines than it does under present conditions. Hence, games 
in the playground or playing-field, contests and exercises 
in the gymnasium, carving and handicraft in the workshop, 
practical measurements in and out of school, natural 
history, geographical and historical excursions to the 
country-side, free-arm drawing and arithmetical calcu- 
lation at the blackboard, should be regularly interspersed 
among the reading, writing, arithmetic, drawing, and paint- 
ing exercises that are done in the desks. 

In the earlier life in the infant and junior schools the 
former type of lesson should be very frequent. The 
exercise of the eye on near objects and in doing fine work 
should come occasionally, but should not be of long dura- 
tion. In the senior school a greater amount of desk work 
in writing, reading, drawing, and general study can be 
undertaken, though at no time during school life should 
the former type of school pursuit be discontinued. The 
larger movements of body and limbs should form an in- 
tegral part of a child's and youth's education at every 
stage, not only because of their effect on general 
health, but because a full education requires that every 
variety of mental and bodily activity should have its 
place. 

The change from a limited and narrow school life to one 
of a broader, freer, and more practical character would, as 
has already been pointed out, have its effect in promoting 
general health. This would strengthen the tissues of the 
eyes, just as the sedentary life of the class-room weakens 
them. Hence, if such practical work formed a part of 
the school pursuits, the closer study in the desks could 
be carried on more strenuously, because the eye and the 
body generally would be more resistant and have greater 
recuperative power. 



340 THE CARE OF THE EYE. 

Beading, writing, and other work requiring the eye to be 
used for fine work at a short range must 
Precautions make up some part of the school occupations. 
Troubles ^ Indeed, the inclusion of such work would do 
110 harm to the eyes or to the general health 
if it were performed under suitable conditions, and if work 
of a different character had its due place in the school life. 
Lessons requiring close use of the eyes should not be of 
great length, nor should two such lessons come together. 
It should be the aim of the teacher as far as possible to 
intersperse close eye work amongst the other pursuits of 
the day so that the eye is never used for any great length 
of time at delicate and fine work. Especially are such 
precautions needed in the infant and junior schools. 

The class-room should be well lighted, so that there be 
no need for the pupils to peer closely at 
their work or to bend immediately over it. 
Lighting from the left hand is on all grounds to be pre- 
ferred. Lighting from the front tends to dazzle the eyes, 
and that from behind casts a shadow over the work. 
Lighting from the right throws a shadow from the hand 
over the work and the rays fall too directly on the eyes, 
as the face is usually inclined slightly in that direction. 
To lighting from the left there are none of these ob- 
jections. 

The same principles should apply to artificial lighting. 
Educational authorities seem to be generally awake to the 
need of correct natural lighting, but forget all principles 
of lighting in the arrangements for artificial lighting. 
The artificial lights are generally placed over the heads of 
the pupils in the middle of the class, so as to glare in the 
eyes of those behind and to throw strong shadows on the 
work of those in nearly every other position. Dr. Kerr 
gives the following advice as to artificial lighting : 



THE CARE OP THE EYE. 341 

" The position of the pendants in the existing class- 
rooms is rather with a view to symmetry than good 
lighting. There is often waste of light in some parts and 
poor light in other parts of the rooms. It is difficult to 
lay down definite rules, as each class-room has to be con- 
sidered by itself. 

" (i) Each class-room should be considered as being 
made up of two portions, the children's area and the 
teacher's area, and the lighting of these parts must be 
arranged independently. 

" (ii) Left-hand lighting must be arranged for as far as 
possible, exactly as in the rules for window lighting. 

" (iii) In calculating the area over which the rays of a 
lamp will extend, we must only take into our valuation 
those rays which proceed from lamps in front of the class 
to the back of the class. Lamps in front of a class 
illuminate to some degree the desks of the back row, 
but lamps to the back of a class do not help to illumi- 
nate the front rows of desks when the pupils are in their 
places. 

" (iv) There must be a clearance of 6 feet 6 inches beneath 
pendants, and the luminous mantle must be as closely as 
possible approximated to this level ; hence burners must 
be short, and cocks or bye-pass fittings must be placed 
on one side of the pendant arms, and not between burner 
and pendant. 

" From suggestions (ii) and (iii) it will follow that the 
main desk-lighting will be arranged to come from the left 
and slightly in front of the child. The gas-fitter should 
mark the position of the first lamp to be hung over the 
centre of the first dual desk on the child's left of the 
front row. Proceeding, lamp positions should be marked 
out along this front row at from 6 feet to 9 feet intervals, 
according to the height of the desks from the floor ; being 



342 THE CARE OF THE EYE. 

closer in infants' and further apart in the higher standards. 
The row of lamps thus marked out would give sufficient 
light for the front row and the second row of desks. A 
second row of lamps similarly spaced would light the third 
and fourth rows of desks. Since a lamp hung behind a 
child throws no light on the desk of that child, it follows 
that the space between the lamps from front to back of a 
room should be less than that between the lamps from 
side to side of the room." 1 

The lighting of the blackboard should be by means of a 
pendant or pendants placed in front of the board and on 
a level with the top. The light from these should be pro- 
jected downward on to the board by means of an opaque 
reflector, which should also shade the light from the eyes 
of the pupils. Electric lighting is both cleaner and healthier 
than lighting by gas. 

The desks, as has already been mentioned, should be 
such that bending and stooping over the 
W01 'k are hindered, an( l an upright carriage 
is promoted. The teacher should carefully 
watch for pupils stooping and persistently correct these 
faulty attitudes. Work should never be brought nearer 
to the eyes than twelve inches, and in reading the book 
should be held almost at arm's length. The print of the 
reading-books should be large and the words well spaced. 
Particularly is this necessary when young pupils are 
learning to read. In the early stages of learning every 
word and almost every letter has to be examined carefully. 
For similar reasons the size of writing and figuring during 
the period of learning should not be small, 2 and, as 

1 Report of the Education Committee of the London County 
Council submitting the report of the Medical Officer (Education) 
for the year ending 31st March, 1907. 

- See Welton, Principles of Teaching, Chap. VII., 2. 



THE CARE OF THE EYE. 343 

has been seen, this is also necessitated by the fact that 
larger movements with the arm and hand are made more 
easily than the smaller and more delicate ones of the hand 
and fingers. For children in the infant school the first 
years of writing and drawing should consist of blackboard 
work. The pupils should stand almost at arm's length 
from the blackboard and print or write the words with 
free movements from the shoulder, the letters being at 
least six inches high. 

8. "Were school life and methods planned on the lines 
suggested above, eye troubles would be much 
' mg ' less frequent than they now are. There 
would, of course, always be some children with abnormal 
eyes. Yet under proper conditions of school work the eye 
of childhood should become stronger and better, and should 
grow up into the normal eye. At present, however, custom 
and tradition, and to some extent want of opportunity, 
force too much close eye work on the pupils, and injury 
to the eyes is only too common. The teacher should, at 
any rate, endeavour to find out children who are suffer- 
ing from eye troubles, so that the injury, if not beyond 
repair, may be remedied, or, if incurable, may not become 
worse. 

Many of the signs of eye trouble are very obvious. 
Words written on the blackboard or maps hung in front 
of the class cannot be distinctly seen. Words begin to 
dance and blur after a few lines have been read. The eyes 
blink frequently or work is closely peered at with knitted 
eyebrows. Headache is frequent after continued reading 
or writing. The eyes are red and inflamed. These are all 
signs that indicate some kind of eye defect. The trouble, 
of course, may be only temporary, due to fatigue of the 
eye-muscles from overwork or induced by general ill-health 
or weakness. 



344 THE CARE OF THE EYE. 

More precise testing of all the children, however, is 
advisable, and is no very difficult or arduous matter. 
A class of forty can be roughly tested in half an hour, 
and, as far as the teacher is concerned, a rough test is all 
that is necessary. More accurate testing, in those cases 
where the teachers have discovered defects, should be left 
to the school doctor. The following method devised by 
Drs. Kaye and Lyster for use in the schools of the West 
Riding is very suitable. 

The plan is founded on the principle that the normal 
eye can read with ease a certain size of type at 20 feet. 
As the distance increases, however, the laws of optics 
demand that the type, if it is to be read with equal ease, 
should become larger. At twice the distance the type should 
be four times the size, at half the distance one quarter the 
size. Twenty feet is taken as the distance for testing eye 
deficiency, because beyond this range rays of light from a 
point on an object to the eye may be considered as parallel. 
As the eye approaches nearer than twenty feet to the 
object the lens has to accommodate its refractive power 
to the distance. 

The children are tested at twenty feet distance with two 
kinds of type" 20 ft." type and " 40 ft." type. All the 
children should first be examined with the " 40 ft. " type 
at twenty feet distance. All who fail at this test are very 
defective, and are placed in Class C. Those who pass are 
now tested with the " 20 ft." type at twenty feet distance. 
Those who fail here are moderately defective, and are 
placed in Class B. Those who pass both tests have good 
sight, and are placed in Class A. 

All pupils should be examined in this way on admission 
and periodically every six months. A register should be 
kept of all the children to record the results of the exami^ 
nations, 



THE CARE OF THE EYE. 345 



: 









o 



346 THE CARE OF THE EYE. 

It must, however, be granted that finding out deficiencies, 
if followed by no attempt to alter the bad conditions that 
caused them, is quite worthless. Mere testing of eyesight 
is no remedy, and unless it lead to measures calculated 
to remove the causes of the trouble it is difficult to see 
what good is to be done by it. 



CHAPTER XIII. 



ABNORMALITIES. 

1. THE course of physical training outlined in the fore- 
going chapters is intended for the child of 
Physical and norma l physique and intelligence. There 
Mental are, however, many children so poor in 

C ?? i ^ i , on physique or so undeveloped intellectually 

of Children. f; J 

that such a course, at least in its en- 
tirety, would be unsuitable for them. The defects from 
which children suffer may be due to accident, or to the 
conditions under which they have been reared, such as 
improper food, unhealthy surroundings, insufficient sleep, 
and a too early acquaintance with exhausting work. No 
doubt there are many children who inherit both mental 
and physical weaknesses, yet such innate tendencies can 
only be accentuated by bad conditions of life during the 
first few years of infancy. There seems to be among the 
poorer sections of our population a great ignorance con- 
cerning the rearing of infants. Babies are given improper 
food, and are taken about at all hours of the day and night. 
They are, for convenience, brought as early as possible to 
share in the family meal and the family life, Little con- 
sideration is given to the uii suit ability of these to the 
tender constitutions of infants, who require special food 
and much sleep. Consequently rickets, scrofula, phthisis, 
nervous exhaustion, and mental weakness, if not positive 
idiocy, are common among those that survive the treatment. 

347 



348 ABNORMALITIES. 

Many defective children are so little removed from the 
normal that it would be unwise to give them special treat- 
ment in special schools. Such are the anaemic, and those 
suffering from heart weakness and nervous exhaustion- 
These children need treatment not of a different character 
from those of the ordinary child, but of a more relaxed 
and less strenuous nature. They can neither work nor play 
at the same pace as can the ordinary child. They soon 
become fatigued, and prolonged work and vigorous play 
bring on exhaustion which only accentuates the diseases 
from which they suffer. There are others, however, who 
have such marked mental deficiencies or require such 
special and individual treatment that they are best edu- 
cated in special schools by teachers who have knowledge of 
their weakness and the mods of dealing with it. The con- 
sumptive, the epileptic, the blind, the deaf, the dumb, and 
the pronouncedly intellectually and morally defective come 
within this category. 

Great care should be taken in selecting children for 
special schools, as much harm may be done by needlessly 
removing pupils from normal .to abnormal conditions of 
life. One of the most important factors in the develop- 
ment of the child in school is the social life among his 
companions. Its influence on the development of character 
and intelligence can hardly be overestimated. The tone of 
the child's moral, intellectual, and physical life is strung 
up to the pitch of that of his school companions. Hence, to 
remove a normal child from the healthy, active, intelligent, 
and keen social work and play of the ordinary school, from 
its strenuous competitive and co-operative life, and to place 
him in the abnormal society of the mentally defective or 
the physically feeble is to cripple, hamper, and confine his 
intellectual, moral, and physical development. It is, there- 
fore, only when the need for special treatment becomes 



ABNORMALITIES. 349 

urgent that the extreme step should be taken. So long as 
their physical, intellectual, and moral deficiencies do not 
make these unfortunate children outcasts from the work 
and play of their more fortunate brothers and sisters, or so 
long as their physical or moral condition does not make 
them a danger to their companions, as in the case of con- 
sumptives and the morally defective, they should be 
allowed to mix freely and naturally with the others in the 
class-room and playground life of the school ; care always 
being taken that they are not pressed beyond their strength 
in any form of competition. Children, like the beasts of 
the field, have a strong and innate aversion to weakness. 
The wolf-pack casts out or tears to pieces the weak and 
feeble, and the average boy, with a similar instinct, 
pursues with merciless contempt, ridicule, and persecution 
those who from physical or mental defects can enter but 
feebly into the boy-life of playground and street. Any 
children, therefore, who from infirmity would be likely 
to suffer bad treatment from their fellows, or who could 
not gain some benefit from the social life of the school, 
are better removed to special schools and educated in an 
environment specially adapted to their condition. 

The selection of children for special schools or for modi- 
fied treatment should be made by a duly qualified medical 
man after consultation with the teachers and parents. 
Only the specialist in children's diseases and weaknesses 
can say what the defect is, whether it is a temporary or 
permanent weakness, and what the course of medical treat- 
ment should be. The class teacher, however, can be a great 
help to the school doctor. It requires but little special 
training to take regular measurements of the height, 
weight, and chest capacity of the children, to test eye- 
sight, and roughly to classify the children as good, 
moderate, or bad in these respects. 



350 ABNORMALITIES. 

Further, the class teacher would have little difficulty in 
noticing the more obvious signs of anaemia, such as pallor, 
listlessness, and breathlessness after exertion ; those of 
heart weakness, as breathlessness after exertion and blue- 
ness of the lips and finger nails, which may be present apart 
from cold ; the open mouth and vacant expression that 
indicate adenoid growths in the pharynx ; and the irregu- 
lar purposeless movements of St. Vitus' dance. He would 
be able to notice the early signs of other diseases, as glands 
in the neck, deformities, awkwardness in gait, paralysis, 
and signs of infectious diseases. The class teacher has the 
child under longer and more continuous observation than 
has the school doctor, and consequently has more oppor- 
tunities of noticing exhaustion following mental effort 
and physical exertion. Above all, he has special oppor- 
tunities for detecting moral and mental deficiencies. The 
child's movements, modes of sitting, standing, and walk- 
ing, his answers to questions, his degree of hesitancy and 
nervousness, his conduct in the playground, and his bear- 
ing to his companions can be constantly and continuously 
observed by the class teacher, and a little special know- 
ledge and training will soon make the teacher quite 
competent to classify roughly the pupils as normal, 
slightly below normal, or requiring special examina- 
tion. The latter should be carefully examined by the 
school doctor. 

There are, moreover, occasions when the teacher has to 
act without delay. When symptoms of infectious disease 
show themselves in a pupil attending school prompt exclu- 
sion is the only safe course. A teacher ignorant of 
the signs of disease, or unobservant, may allow an infec- 
tious disease to spread among the children of the school 
when prompt measures might have stamped it out at 
the outset. Accidents, too, are not infrequent. Cuts, 



ABNORMALITIES. 351 

bruises, even burns and broken limbs, are known in schools, 
and immediate treatment by the teacher may bring con- 
siderable relief and perhaps avert serious consequences. 
Where swimming is practised the teacher in charge of the 
pupils should have a thoroughly practical knowledge of life 
saving and the modes of promoting artificial respiration. 
There are, thus, many good reasons why a teacher should 
have a good practical working knowledge of children's 
diseases and of the way to deal with accidents likely to 
occur in school. 

The teacher's work, then, is mainly confined to a rough 
examination of the children, to dealing with cases requiring 
immediate attention, and to recording signs of physical, 
intellectual, and moral abnormalities that come under his 
notice, and for which he should carefully watch. Serious 
cases should always be brought under the immediate notice 
of the school doctor. The school doctor should be some- 
thing more than a general medical practitioner or officer 
of health. He should have a knowledge of child life and 
growth in all its aspects intellectual, social, and moral, as 
well as physical. The great danger is that his interests, 
knowledge, and outlook may be confined to the body 
and its diseases. He should regard the child as a human 
being with character and intelligence, and whose body is 
an instrument in the service of mind. He should, there- 
fore, base his advice and treatment on the principles of 
child growth as a whole, and view physical education not 
only from the standpoint of hygiene and medicine but also 
from that of intellectual, social, and moral development. 
Education should not neglect the hygienic view of school 
life, but that view is not the only one. Just as conduct 
has its physical, intellectual, moral, social, and aesthetic 
aspects, so a true education is the harmonious application 
of many sets of principles corresponding with these aspects. 



352 ABNORMALITIES. 

Artificial, abstract, and barren if based on one only, school 
life becomes real, living, generous, and fruitful to body 
and mind when it combines all in harmonious pro- 
portions. 

Thus, while we require in the teacher a knowledge of 
hygiene and of children's defects and diseases, we require 
in the school doctor a knowledge of the development of 
character and intelligence, so that in recommending treat- 
ment for the body the human aspect of school life will not 
be overlooked. Too many of the recommendations of 
doctors with regard to school life err in being too narrowly 
physical. A medical man, limited to the exclusively hygienic 
standpoint, sees a physical evil and often desires to apply 
the immediate and most obvious physical remedy, regard- 
less of the general education of the child and of the effects of 
his treatment on character and intelligence. Thus, doctors 
frequently recommend formal physical exercises, and think 
little of the unfruitfulness of these measures in developing 
spirit and intelligence. It has been our aim throughout 
this work to keep in view the child as a whole, to consider 
him Tis a human being with mind and body in definite 
relations to each other. Physical education we have 
regarded not so much as one part, or even branch, of 
education, but rather as that aspect of the child's general 
education that will lead him into fuller and better relations 
with the practical life of the world, in which intelligence 
and spirit are of equal, if not of greater, importance than 
skill and physique. It is such a wide and generous view 
we look to the school doctor to take. He must regard 
the school less as a laboratory for hygienic experiment 
and more as a place where the child has to learn to 
live, and in which his powers of mind and body 
are acting in correlation in the mastering of his en- 
vironment. 



ABNORMALITIES. 35o 

2. The school, then, though organised in the main for a 

child of normal physique and intelligence, 
Mentally and must be sufficiently elastic to meet the needs 
D&lectivJ ^ those mentally and physically defective 
Children. children that can gain some benefit from its 

physical and mental life. The teacher will 
thus require to study his pupils carefully, and not only 
to take regular measurements of height, weight, chest 
capacity, and eyesight, but also to note at all times any 
departure from the normal in power of attention, in bodily 
attitudes, in speech and movements, and in general conduct 
and appearance. 

The development and vigour of the brain, of course, 

cannot be examined directly, but its condition 
Signs of can be fairly accurately inferred from the 

Deficiency many physical evidences of brain activity. 

Brain action is best studied in the speech, 
voluntary actions, gestures, and facial expression of the 
child. In the child's speech, in his answers to questions, 
in his conversation, in his mental attitude in oral lessons, 
in his dealings with his companions in the playground are 
seen his powers of initiative, of persistent attention, of judg- 
ment, and of memory. A child of low mental development 
lacks power of attention, and consequently the impressions 
that come pouring in from the external world are but passing 
and fleeting shadows that come and go. The response to 
such impressions, or to the representation of them in 
memory and imagination, is but feeble, and hence he lacks 
initiative and intelligence, and shows himself mainly 
imitative in his conduct. Moreover, he is slavishly 
imitative, and cannot adapt the suggestions he gets to 
the needs of his own particular circumstances. He is 
slow in thought, and his conclusions are frequently 
arrived at through chance and haphazard suggestions in 
PHY. ED. 23 



354 ABNORMALITIES. 

sound or in appearance rather than through a grasp of 
essential likeness. He is incapable of prolonged attention. 
His eye wanders restlessly from one object to another, and 
he seems to have some difficulty in fixing his gaze definitely 
on one point. He sits as a rule stolidly indifferent, and 
when induced to make an effort his wrinkled and creased 
forehead and scowling face indicate the nature of the task 
to him. 

The character of the child's movements is a good indica- 
tion of brain development. During infancy the motor and 
sensory centres are not fully developed and do not work in 
perfect harmony with each other. The movements of the 
hand in extending to grasp an object cannot be fully con- 
trolled by the perceptions of sight, touch, and muscular 
movement. The infant, too, makes many irresponsible and 
irregular movements with apparently no object and not 
directed by perceptions of any kind, because the associa- 
tions between the incoming sensory impressions and the 
outgoing motor impulses are not yet definitely made, as 
they are in the more fully developed brain. As the brain 
centres develop by means of a well-balanced education the 
sensory and motor centres are brought into more harmo- 
nious correlation. Irresponsible, irregular, and objectless 
movements are then inhibited. Control over actions is 
acquired and the movements are guided to their end by 
definite perceptions of sight, sound, and touch. 

Control over movement by which is meant the power 
to inhibit undesirable movements and to guide action by 
perception is, then, a sign of good brain development, and 
want of control an indication of under- developed brain 
correlation. Under-development shows itself in imperfect 
inhibition. In the child of weak mind such movements 
as twitching of the hand and arm, irregular movements 
of the facial muscles, head, tongue, and eyes, and similar 



ABNORMALITIES. 355 

movements of the body and limbs generally are very 
common. Especially are suck movements likely to be 
made during times of emotional and intellectual stress, as, 
for example, wken the child is being taxed with a fault or 
is making an effort to overcome some intellectual difficulty. 
In watching actions, too, such children seem lacking in 
the power to fix their eyes definitely on the action being 
performed and to follow it continuously from beginning 
to end. Their eyes shift restlessly from object to object. 
In seeing actions performed they unconsciously make the 
same movements, seemingly unable to inhibit or control 
the imitative motor response. Thus if a person nods or 
shakes his head they unconsciously follow suit. In imi- 
tating complex actions their movements are slow and 
awkward, showing imperfect correlation of the motor and 
sensory centres. 

Speaking and writing especially speaking are of all 
actions the most significant of the condition 
^ ^ no brain. Speech is produced by muscular 
movements of the vocal organs controlled 
from a motor centre situated in the motor area that con- 
trols the movements of the face. The motor area for 
speech is confined to the left hemisphere of the cerebrum, 
though the more general movements of the face are 
governed from both left and right hemispheres. 

Since speech contains auditory, visual, and motor elements 
several nerve centres are concerned. These centres enter 
into all definite and controlled mental life. Impressions 
from objects in the external world reach the sense organs 
and are there converted into nervous impulses which are 
transmitted along the sensory nerve tracks to the brain, 
Each sense organ transmits its impulses to a definite 
sensory area in the cerebrum. the visual, auditory, olfac- 
tory, tactual area as the case may be. 



356 ABNORMALITIES. 

The mental impression that results, however, is much 
more complex than that of a mere sensation of sight or 
sound. The impression has to be interpreted, given a 
meaning, received into the mental content, and brought 
into relation with other experience. A rose is not seen as 
a rose unless it stirs into activity other elements of experi- 
ence of sight, smell, touch, and movement that will lead 
one to act towards it as one usually acts towards roses, to 
anticipate its smell, to know how to pluck it, and to name 
it as a rose. An object seen, then, must by means of the 
associative pathways of the brain awaken into activity 
many other parts of the brain than the visual centre before 
the complex mental act of understanding an object takes 
place. 

Into the rational understanding of impressions speech 
almost always enters. Indeed, speech is so intimately con- 
nected with thought, feeling, and voluntary action of all 
kinds that it has a position of importance in mental life 
far above other kinds of action. We think by the help of 
words. Some people at times say the words aloud ; others 
move their lips, but utter no sounds ; others say the words 
to themselves, but utter no sounds and make no move- 
ments. Their thinking is done by internal speech, and 
this is the way most people of developed intellect work out 
their thoughts. Internal speech is the memory of words 
uttered; in it there is a distinct motor element a 
memory of how the sounds are made, and a distinct 
auditory element a memory of the sounds themselves. In 
some cases there also enters a memory of the words as seen. 
In reading and writing the visual element is prominent, 
and into the latter of these a motor element (hand and arm 
movement) is also present. There are thus several centres 
directly connected with speech the motor centres for speech 
and writing, and the auditory and visual speech centres. 



ABNORMALITIES. 357 

The speech centres besides having to function in correla- 
tion with each other in speaking, reading, and writing have 
to be in intimate and definite association with all parts of 
the brain ; for actions, sensory impressions, and ideas are 
all thought about by language, and words seen or heard are 
only understood by means of the connexion of the speech 
centres with the other centres of the brain. The speech 
centres are then marked out above all others as centres 
with which every other cerebral centre, motor and sensory, 
must work in harmonious correlation. Imperfect develop- 
ment, injury to the brain, ill-health, and brain exhaustion 
are almost certain to be reflected in some disorder of speech 
or writing. 

The injury or weakness may occur in the speech centres 
themselves, in the connexions between the speech centres, 
or in the connexions between them and the other sensory 
and motor centres of the brain. Hence speech disorders, 
known as aphasia, may be of very various characters, 
and range from slightly disordered speech to inability to 
understand speech or to utter coherent sounds. If the 
motor speech centre be affected the power to utter intel- 
ligible sounds is lost or injured, though other kinds of 
control over the vocal organs may be unimpaired. The 
person, though unable to speak, " can laugh and cry and 
even sing ; but he either is unable to utter any sounds at all ; 
or a few meaningless stock phrases form his only speech 
or else he speaks incoherently and confusedly, mispro- 
nouncing, misplacing, and misusing his words in various 
degrees. Sometimes his speech is a mere broth of unin- 
telligible syllables." 1 If the auditory speech centre be 
affected he cannot understand what is said to him, although 
he may be able to talk, to read, and to write. He suffers 

1 James, Text- Book of Psychology, pp. 108-109. 



358 ABNORMALITIES. 

from ' word deafness ' ; tliougli able to hear sounds they 
have no meaning to him. Similarly, if the visual centre 
be impaired ' word blindness ' results, and he cannot read 
or understand objects seen, but can hear and talk and 
understand things heard and felt. 

Though the motor speech centre is most directly con- 
nected with utterance, defect of any of the other speech 
centres, or injury to any of them, is likely to affect utter- 
ance. In speech, utterance is the last stage of a complex 
process in which meaning, sight, sound, and utterance are 
all closely bound up. In some cases the visual centre is the 
important intermediary between meaning and utterance, in 
others it is the auditory centre. Hence, if the visual or 
the auditory centre be injured or defective the utterance 
of words is disordered. 

Disordered speech, then, is a symptom of brain condition 
of the greatest importance. The disorder may only be of 
a temporary character and due to brain exhaustion or 
illness, or it may be permanent and due either to defective 
development or to injury and disease. Pupils, then, who 
in their speech or in reading continually use words in a 
wrong sense, mix their words up, substitute words for 
each other, or have difficulty in recollecting well-known and 
familiar words should be carefully examined. If the 
speech defect is permanent it indicates a permanent defect 
of brain or vocal organs, if occurring occasionally it is 
probably due to exhaustion or illness. In the former case 
a medical examination is necessary ; in the latter rest, 
combined with nourishing food and recreative employment 
in the fresh air, will effect a cure. . 

Similarly, disorders in writing words, known as agrapliia, 
indicate defective brain development or exhaustion. Ex- 
treme eccentricity in spelling should lead a teacher to 
suspect the presence of agrapliia, and he should take the 



ABNORMALITIES, 359 

first opportunity of drawing the attention of the school 
doctor to the case. 

The condition of the brain, besides being reflected in 

speech and action, shows itself in facial ex- 

Intellectual pression, gesture, and general attitude of the 

bod 3 r - Mental states ' b 7 means of the cen ~ 
tres of intellectual and emotional expression, 

cause movements in the muscles of the face and limbs, so 
that each state of attention and emotion has its own 
peculiar physical reaction. Strenuous effort, determination, 
patience, grief, joy, hatred, love are each associated with some 
characteristic facial expression, gesture, and attitude. It 
is through such physical forms that painters, sculptors, and 
actors exhibit to others the states of mind they wish to 
portray. So intimately related are the emotions with 
bodily movements that some psychologists deny the exist- 
ence of emotions apart from the movements. "A dis- 
embodied human emotion," says Professor James, " is a 
sheer nonentity." 1 Stop the movement and the emotion 
ceases. The emotion is the sensation, the feeling of the 
bodily reactions aroused in face, limbs, and internal 
organs. However this may be, such signs of mental 
action are too valuable to be overlooked in studying the 
mental development of children. A face with heavy, dull, 
immobile, and unchanging features and expression plainly 
indicates want of brain action and feeble powers of intellect 
and emotion. On the other hand, mobile features, showing 
quickly-changing and various expressions, indicate good 
brain action and powers of intellect and feeling. Similarly, 
in general attitude and in gesture immobility indicates 
feeble mind, and mobility in attitude and gesture, combined 
with control and restraint, signifies a quick intelligence, 
power of attention and of inhibition. 

1 T>.<-f-/}oI:ofrychofor/y,i>. 380, 



360 ABNORMALITIES. 

It is only natural to expect, since the brain plays so 
great a part in stimulating and directing 
growth, that the development of the brain 
will show itself in some way in the bodily 
structure. Such indeed to some extent is true, although 
inferences from structure, unless confirmed by observations 
of the speech, movements, and behaviour of a pupil, should 
not be trusted. The most important structural indication 
of brain power is in the size and shape of the head. 
Though a large head does not always mean a large brain 
within, or a large brain a powerful intellect, yet in the main 
there is some connexion between size and shape of head 
and intelligence. Heads above or below the normal in 
size and different from the normal in shape indicate some 
fault in development. Especially in examining the head 
should the height, width, and slope of the forehead be 
noted. A narrow and receding forehead usually indicates 
a low mental type ; a broad, high, vertical forehead a good 
mental type. 

Indications in bodily structure that the animal nature in 
man is prominent are usually accompanied by low mental 
power and sensual traits of character. Thick lips, heavy 
and protruding lower jaw, thick, dull, heavy skin and flesh, 
usually, though not always, mean a low type of manhood 
or womanhood. Ears which stand out markedly, giving a 
wing-like appearance, with abnormal shape, are common 
among feeble-minded children, and a highly arched palate 
is often indicative of poor nervous development. 

While the mentally defective child usually shows some or 
all of the above signs, it is not uncommon to find children 
as sharp as normal children, but who are morally defective, 
insomuch as they are addicted to thieving, deceit, lying, 
and indecent acts. The moral imbecile does not acquire the 
conscience which a normal child brought up in a healthy 



ABNORMALITIES. 361 

school and home environment does. His moral instincts 
are either wanting or very feeble, and punishment and 
careful treatment have little effect on his actions or moral 
feelings. Cases of pronounced moral deficiency should be 
treated in special schools. Children suffering in this way 
should not be allowed to remain as centres of vile influence. 
Pupils of feeble and undeveloped mental power should 

not have treatment of a markedly different 
Treatment character from that given to their more for- 
DeSle" 7 timate bretliren J dess, indeed, the feeble- 
Children, ness approaches idiocy. They will be dull 

and backward in their work, but punishment 
and isolation will not cure and are obviously unjust. 
They need every encouragement to bright, happy, 
energetic action, for it is only by action that their feeble 
natures will expand. Their intelligence will be appealed 
to mainly through such concrete and perceptual studies as 
natural history, practical measurements, various forms of 
manual exercises, and imaginative literature. Their powers 
of perception, of movement, of intelligence, of attention 
and control should be expanded and strengthened by 
a varied course of games, physical exercises, handi- 
craft, nature study, and singing. Mixing freely with 
their quicker and more intellectual companions in active 
co-operation and competition they will expand in intelli- 
gence and power of will more than if they are kept at 
isolated studies or mix only with younger children or 
with children afflicted like themselves. It is, therefore, 
unwise to discourage such children by keeping them with 
younger pupils in the lower classes of the school. Even 
if unfit in many respects to proceed onward with pupils 
of about their own age, they will be more stimulated in 
such a class than if placed among pupils with whom they 
cannot mix freely and from whom they receive nothing 



362 ABNORMALITIES. 

but contempt and ridicule. Self-respect is a virtue that 
underlies all conscious improvement, and more real effort 
is likely to be induced by encouraging self-respect than by 
punishment or degradation from the teacher and by 
persecution from companions. 

Besides giving indications of brain development the 

conduct, movements, facial expression, and 
Exhlu^tion Bodily attitudes exhibit the state of health 

and vitality of the brain. In an exhausted 
brain the power of inhibition and of guiding move- 
ments to a successful issue is not so great as in a 
brain that is fresh and well nourished. There is little 
power of spontaneous initiative. Hence irritability, ner- 
vous, irresponsible movements and gestures, combined 
with general immobility, listlessness, and drooping atti- 
tudes, are signs of nervous exhaustion. Movements become 
awkward and slow. The mind cannot be concentrated for 
long on one thing, and this is seen in the tendency for the 
eyes to wander aimlessly from object to object, and to look 
anywhere but where the teacher wishes the exhausted child 
to fix his gaze. 

The inertness is physical as well as mental. The head 
droops, the body stoops, and the arms when held out tend 
to fall from the horizontal, and the fingers and thumb 
assume drooping attitudes. There is a tendency to pallor, 
with dark lines and fulness underneath the eyes. The 
facial expression during nervous exhaustion becomes less 
mobile. The face instead of being bright, with quickly 
changing and various expressions, becomes dull, heavy, and 
lifeless, and want of control may show itself in twitchings 
of the mouth and eyes. Similar irresponsible movements 
of the hand, such as clenching the hand and twitchings of 
the fingers, are also evidences of exhaustion. With a 
vigorous nervous system the head should be held erect. 



ABNORMALITIES. 363 

the body upright, and the arms when held out in front 
should be in a position that indicates firmness and energy, 
with the fingers and thumbs straight and not drooping. 

Pupils suffering from nervous exhaustion need careful 
consideration in their school life, and the amount and 
kind of mental study and physical exertion they are called 
on to do should be suited to their condition. They are 
incapable of strenuous mental or physical labour, and for 
this reason are often regarded as dull and uiiintellectual. 
They should not be pressed either at lessons or at games. 
They need relaxation, rest, and sleep. Their nervous 
vitality requires to be restored by good nourishment, fresh 
air, gentle exercise, and sunshine. They should spend as 
much time as possible in the open air at recreative pursuits 
of a gentle character, and should not be worried with either 
home lessons or examinations. Except in serious cases 
absence from school is not necessary. School life, if it be 
taken easily, gently, and without pressure and worry, will 
give occupation to the mind and body, and the fullest 
advantage should be taken of outdoor games, exercises, 
and excursions. 

Want of physical vitality may be due to many causes, 
among which anaemia, weak heart, and im- 
Deficient proper food are the most common. 

Anaemia is a condition in which the 
Anaemia. oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood is 

diminished, and hence the oxygenation of 
the tissues is reduced. The vitality of the whole system 
is thereby affected, and nervous, muscular, and digestive 
troubles ensue. Anaemia is generally the result of disease, 
of badly ventilated rooms, of insufficient or improper food, 
or of insufficient sleep and outdoor exercise. One of its 
signs is pallor of the skin, which is best observed in the 
lips, finger nails, and gums. All the signs of nervous 



364 ABNORMALITIES. 

exhaustion are also present, since the nervous system 
suffers with the rest of the body. The child is listless, 
languid, inert, and drooping. Physical exertion quickly 
brings on breathlessness, and mental effort is followed by 
fatigue. 

Heart weakness may be congenital or the result of 
illnesses such as rheumatic fever, scarlet 
Weakness fever, or measles. The circulation is slug- 

gish, and this shows itself in deficient 
vitality, sometimes in an undersized body, thin features, 
and cold hands and feet, with, at times, blueness of the 
lips and finger nails. As in the case of anaemia, breath- 
lessness quickly follows physical exertion, and the child 
seems incapable of any great mental or physical effort. 

Children suffering from weak heart or anaemia should 
be under regular medical observation. They are unfit for 
strenuous work at school and should not be pressed or 
worried about their lessons. In the case of anaemia good 
nourishment and fresh air occupations should effect a cure, 
and in the case of heart weakness these will strengthen 
the heart. The greatest care, however, should be taken 
with children suffering from weak heart to adapt the 
physical exercises and games to their strength. They 
should never be allowed to exert themselves violently in 
lifting weights, climbing ladders, running, football, etc. 
Violent exertion will rapidly exhaust the heart and bring 
on serious consequences ; gentle exercise, on the other hand, 
will strengthen. 

Improper and insufficient nourishment naturally results 

in deficient vitality, and all the tissues suffer. 

Improper The physical frame is undersized and under 

weight, the features thin and puny, and the 

complexion pallid. Anaemia, nervous exhaustion, phthisis, 

and rickets frequently result from poor nourishment, 



ABNORMALITIES. 365 

especially where there are other predisposing causes either 
in innate weakness or in unhealthy surroundings. Further, 
insufficient food has markedly deleterious effects on the 
mental condition of the child, and feebleness of intellect 
and moral instability frequently ensue. 

Consumptive children require special treatment; the 

indoor life of the ordinary school and the 
Consumption. . 

home lire 111 the poorer parts ot our crowded 

towns are quite unsuited to their condition. As the 
diseasfe, moreover, is infectious, the presence of con- 
sumptive children in school is a source of dange-r to the 
other children. The disease is due to the tubercle bacillus, 
or germ, finding a foothold in some part of the lung. The 
germs, multiplying and spreading, finally destroy the 
lung tissue. The germ has great powers of vitality, and 
exists in the air, in dust, and in dirt. Hence it is inhaled 
into the lungs with the breath. All people inhale these 
germs, but only those with some innate weakness of 
lungs suffer. The strong and vigorous easily resist 
the attack of the germs, and no harm results. It is 
obvious, however, that where the vitality of the lung 
tissue is reduced by poor nourishment, anaemia, or want 
of fresh air, or where the lung tissue is innately too feeble 
to resist the attacks of the bacilli of consumption, the 
disease gains a strong foothold and spreads. To overcome 
the disease the vitality and recuperative power of the lung 
tissue and of the system generally, and the nourishing and 
oxygenating power of the blood need to be increased, 
for it can only be fought and overcome by building up 
healthy vigorous tissue. Hence, good plain and nourish- 
ing food, fresh air, plenty of sleep, gentle recreative outdoor 
employment, with sunlight and bright happy surround- 
ings, are the measures for combating consumption. 
Special sanatoria for consumptive children should be 



366 ABNORMALITIES. 

provided, so that their life may be largely an open-air one. 
Their education should be suited to their condition, and 
open-air pursuits such as nature study, with drawing and 
painting, practical measurements, handicrafts, etc., should 
form a large part of it. Besides the lung, the tubercle 
bacillus may invade other parts of the body, and tubercu- 
losis of the abdominal viscera and of the joints is not 
uncommon in children. The former early manifests itself 
in anaemia and lassitude. In the latter the teacher may 
often assist in an early recognition of the disease by 
calling attention to slight lameness occurring in a child 
without any apparent cause. 

Rickets is very common among children in the poor 

districts of our large towns. Improper feed- 
Rickets. , . -..,. /4.1 I 

ing and insanitary conditions 01 the homes 
during infancy seem to be the special determining causes. 
Excess of starchy foods and deficiency of fats in particular 
predispose to rickets. Thus, infants brought up on bread, 
biscuits, potatoes, with iittle fresh milk, together with 
want of fresh air and outdoor exercise, frequently develop 
rickets. The rickety child can easily be recognised by 
many obvious signs. "These are the square head; the 
beaded ribs ; the narrow and constricted chest j curved 
spine and bent legs ; enlarged wrists, ankles, or knees ; 
knock-knee and flat foot ; brittleness of bones, predisposing 
to fracture ; general enfeeblement and pallor, and delayed 
development ; and a marked liability to catch cold and 
acquire various diseases, particularly lung diseases." 1 

Results of bad feeding are due to home conditions, and 
hence all the school can do is to endeavour in some measure 
to counteract the effects. School life should be a free, 
active, and healthy one ; many pursuits should be carried 

1 Lyster, School ffyyiene, p. 228, 



ABNORMALITIES, 367 

on in the open air ; nature-study and geographical excur- 
sions into the country should be frequent ; outdoor 
exercise and games should be regular; and the rooms 
should be well ventilated. The improvement of the mode 
of rearing infants is a most important social problem 
surrounded by many difficulties. The physical evil is 
apparent : it is want of proper nourishment and unhealthy 
conditions of life. The moral evil lies in the ignorance 
and indifference of the mothers. The question seems to 
be how to secure the proper rearing of children without 
violating the English traditions of personal liberty and 
independence and of parental responsibility. To sap the 
foundation of the English moral character by removing' 
parental responsibility may do more moral and social 
harm than the injudicious provision of food may do 
physical good. What seems necessary is some process 
of education, by which is not meant mere instruction, that 
will reach the women of the nation at a time when 
parental responsibility will mean something. Instruction 
given to school girls is inadequate and from the nature 
of the case foredoomed to failure. The instruction falls 
on ears too immature to appreciate the importance of the 
problems, and is forgotten long before womanhood is 
reached. The instruction and training should be given to 
girls just as they are passing into womanhood, when the 
instincts of maternity are awakening and may be shaped 
by wise and judicious training into interests and habits of 
a rational kind. 

The disease called Chorea, or St. Vitus' dance, occurs in 
children between six and fifteen years of age, 
and is most common among girls. It is 
primarily a disease of the nervous system, and is charac- 
terised by irregular, purposeless movements of the limbs 
and of the facial muscles, It is commonly associated with 



868 ABNORMALITIES. 

rheumatism and is said to be excited by fright. The 
movements are jerky and involuntary, and are therefore 
to be distinguished from the uncontrolled voluntary move- 
ments indicative of mental deficiency. The disease requires 
medical treatment, and suspected cases should be reported 
to the school doctor. 

3. A clear duty lies on teachers and education authorities 
with regard to infectious diseases. Although 
Diseases 18 not direc % concerned with the treatment of 
children suffering from an infectious com- 
plaint, they are distinctly concerned with taking measures 
to prevent its spread among the children attending school. 
Children suffer much more from infectious complaints 
than do adults, and although adults are by no means 
immune from attack, still the disease in them is of a much 
milder character and the mortality much less great. " In 
1905 there were in England and Wales 11,076 deaths from 
measles. Of this number 10,383 were among children 
under five years of age. In the same year 8,482 children 
under five died from whooping-cough, while among those 
above five there were only 227 deaths." 1 These statistics 
plainly point to the conclusion that it is among very 
young children that infectious diseases are particularly 
disastrous. It is evident, then, that every endeavour 
should be made to prevent children, and especially young 
children, from becoming infected. Schools, where many 
children are congregated together, are, in particular, places 
favourable to the spread of disease, and especially so when 
the class-rooms are badly ventilated, ill-lighted, and dirty. 2 
It is, without doubt, the duty of education authorities and 
of their representatives in the schools the teachers to 
exercise watchfulness in detecting pupils suffering from 

1 Jones, School Hygiene, p. 136. 

2 See Chapter IX., 1. 



ABNORMALITIES. 369 

infectious complaints, and by cleanliness and other means 
to prevent the spread of the disease to the other children 
under their care. 
Infectious diseases are all due to the introduction of 

minute living organisms or poisons into the 
Source of T ^ 

Infection system. Living organisms, or germs as they 

are called, are found in the air, in the dust 
and dirt of the walls and floors of the rooms, in food and 
in liquids. They can thus pass into the system either in 
breathing or in eating. Many of the diseases of the 
throat, of which diphtheria is a type, consumption, 
catarrhs, and influenza, are caused by germs breathed in 
from the air. Others, like typhoid and scarlet fever, may 
be caused by germs taken into the system in water, milk, 
or food. Germs, too, may pass from an infected person 
either by the breath, or through personal contact, or by 
means of clothing, books, brushes, towels, and other 
articles used by him. From these considerations it is 
evident that there are two main ways of preventing the 
spread of infectious diseases in schools: (1) by purifying 
and disinfecting the air, the rooms, walls, floors, desks, 
books, and apparatus of the schools ; (2) by preventing 
communication between those known to have the disease, 
or suspected of being infected, and the other pupils. 

The walls, floors, and desks of a school should be 
cleansed regularly with disinfectant solu- 
^ions, an< ^ with special thoroughness on the 
outbreak of an infectious complaint. As 
has been seen, fresh air and sunlight are good purifiers, 
and the rooms of a school should be copiously flushed with 
fresh air from open windows and doors every day before 
the scholars enter and after they leave. The books, pens, 
and pencils in use should also receive particular attention. 
The rapid spread of some diseases can be directly traced 

PHY. ED, 24 



370 ABNORMALITIES. 

to these articles being used in common by every member 
of a class. It would be far cleaner and safer if every cliild 
had his own book, pen, pencil, towel, and place in the class- 
room, and was forbidden to use any other. If a child then 
became infected, his books, etc., could be removed and 
either destroyed or disinfected. One great channel for 
the spread of disease would in that way be removed. The 
circle of suspected pupils, too, would be narrowed. The 
child's intimate companions and those sitting in proximity 
could easily be removed and kept under observation. 

In preventing the communication of a disease from 
pupil to pupil it is important to be able 

Detection of to detect its svmptoms at the earliest 

Infectious M i Vr j? j i 

Disease possible moment. Unfortunately in most 

cases of infectious complaints the disease 
does not show itself in a pronounced form until some 
time after the person has become infected. A pupil 

seemingly in good health, although in the 
Difficulty of -,- i ? * - f .- T . , 

Detection initial stages ot an intectious complaint, 

may thus be attending school and be a 
centre of infection. It happens, too, in some cases that a 
pupil is affected so slightly that, although feeling a little 
unwell, he still attends school throughout the various 
stages of the illness, and no one is aware that he is a 
danger to others. Thus, pupils with scarlet fever may 
pass unnoticed until the peeling of the skin or a discharge 
from the nose or ears indicates that they have reached 
the convalescent stage of the illness. It sometimes 
happens, too, that children may be carriers of the 
disease though not suffering from it themselves. This 
is especially so in diphtheria. Many children may be 
harbouring the germs of diphtheria in the membranes 
of the throat and nose and yet be resisting the attack of 
the disease. Though immune themselves they are thus 



ABNORMALITIES. 371 

capable of infecting others by means of slates, pens, and 
pencils. Such cases can only be discovered by a bacterio- 
logical examination of the material from the throats of 
all the children in a school. The prevalence of such cases 
is, too, a strong reason for banishing slates from school as 
unhealthy and unclean, and for insisting on each child 
using his own particular pen, pencil, book, and towel. 
The germs or poisons on entering the system live on the 

tissues or in the blood. There they multiply 
Incubation with great rapidity. At first they are, so to 

speak, fighting for their existence with the 
natural defences of the body. In the struggle one or the 
other may conquer. If the natural defences of the body 
prevail, then the person escapes the disease ; if the disease 
germs or poisons conquer, then these, multiplying in the 
blood and tissues, produce there a condition which is the 
immediate cause of the disease and its symptoms. 

The initial period of incubation, as it is called, may be 
long or short, varying in the case of each disease and with 
individuals. In scarlet fever it is short, rarely lasting 
more than three days ; in measles it is long, and may be 
as much as eighteen days ; in mumps it may be as long 
as twenty-one or even twenty-eight days. Once, however, 
the germs have established themselves in the system and 
have begun to multiply, premonitory signs of illness begin 
to show themselves, at first to the sufferer himself. He 
begins to feel listless, languid, drowsy, and generally out 
of sorts, although nothing of a pronounced character is 
evident either to himself or to onlookers. 

The second stage of the illness is reached when the 

disease definitely declares itself. The 
Illness? symptoms may appear quite suddenly or may 

come on gradually. The sufferer usually 
begins to have shivering fits, headache, and pains in the 



372 ABNORMALITIES. 

limbs and joints. The skin feels hot, dry, and feverish. 
The pulse is quick and the temperature high. Sickness, 
nausea, and vomiting may be present, especially so with 
scarlet fever. In some diseases the throat and nasal 
channels are specially affected. Thus, in scarlet fever 
and diphtheria there is sore throat ; in measles, German 
measles, and whooping-cough there are sneezing and run- 
ning at the nose as if the person was suffering from a cold 
in the head. 

As the disease progresses a rash usually appears. It 
may break out on the hands, arms, neck, face, body, or 
legs. In each disease there is a particular form of rash 
and a particular part of the body affected, so that an 
infectious disease can be accurately diagnosed by the 
appearance and position of the rash. 

A teacher, then, should be watchful for any of the 
common signs of infectious diseases, and be specially 
observant of the appearance of the children when an in- 
fectious complaint is prevalent. The teacher should be 
suspicious of such signs as nausea, sore throat, and run- 
ning at the nose. These, if combined with headache, a 
dry, hot skin, and a quick pulse, point to a possible case 
of infectious illness. Pupils suspected of having an 
infectious complaint should be immediately sent home and 
the school doctor informed at once. Those pupils who 
have been in close companionship with the ailing pupils 
should also be sent home and kept under observation 
until they either develop the disease or are found to be 
completely immune from it. 

Closing the school during an outbreak of infectious 
disease should not be resorted to unless 
there is clear evidence that such a course is 
likely to prevent the spread of the complaint. 
If the school is closed the opportunities for discovering 



ABNORMALITIES. 373 

infected pupils, and of marking suspected cashes, are con- 
siderably reduced. It is doubtful, too, whether the free 
mixing of children at play in the streets and recreation 
grounds will not be a more fruitful means of spreading the 
disease than their more disciplined congregation in school. 
Many of the children, also, are not likely to catch the disease, 
since one attack, especially if a severe one, usually renders 
a person immune from further attacks. It would, there- 
fore, be well to know the history of each pupil with respect 
to infectious diseases. The possibility of the disease spread- 
ing wholesale throughout the pupils of a school could then 
be easily estimated. The disease is only likely to spread 
to those who have not already had the complaint. It might, 
therefore, happen in the case of a common complaint, like 
scarlet fever or whooping-cough, that only a small per- 
centage of the pupils, especially in the senior part of the 
upper school, was liable to attack. A record should, 
therefore, be kept of the infectious complaints each child 
has had, and the question of the closing of the school 
should be decided in each case in relation to the extent 
of the outbreak, to the number of pupils liable to attack, 
and to whether the department is the infant, junior, or 
senior part of the school. 

Special care is necessary in allowing pupils to return 
after an illness. In 110 case should a pupil be permitted 
to return without the medical officer certifying that he is 
free from the disease, and the sanitary authorities certi- 
fying that the house, with the clothing, etc., has been 
thoroughly disinfected. Even then in some cases there is 
danger. In the case of scarlet fever discharges from the 
ears or nose may occur after the pupil has been certified 
as free from infection, and such discharges are highly 
infectious. 

When the fever has subsided, the temperature become 



374 ABNORMALITIES. 

normal, and the rash disappeared, the stage of conva- 
lescence is reached. The vitality of the system, which has 
been reduced by the fever and high temperature, now re- 
quires to be restored by good nourishment, fresh air, rest, and 
sleep. Care should be taken that the system is not brought 
to the point of exhaustion by premature physical or mental 
exertion. Recreative pursuits, either physical or mental, 
are good when the child is well on the high road to com- 
plete recovery, but fatigue must be guarded against. 

Many infectious diseases seem to be attended by special 
troubles of a local character. For example, inflammation of 
the ear is very common after scarlet fever and measles, 
and deafness may result. Brain affections and heart and 
lung troubles frequently occur after influenza. The great 
mortality among those suffering from measles is not so 
much due to the disease itself as to the attendant or con- 
sequent troubles, such as broncho-pneumonia and tubercu- 
losis of the lungs. After an epidemic, therefore, persistent 
coughing by a child, exceptional pallor or languor, and 
deafness should be reported to the school doctor. 

The following table is given in order that teachers may 
know the premonitory signs of the infectious diseases 
common among children, and the length of time required 
to complete a cure and for the isolation of a suspected case. 
It will be noted that the period of incubation varies 
considerably in the case of different diseases and also in 
different instances of the same disease. It is wise, there- 
fore, to forbid the attendance at school of those children 
who are suspected of being infected for a period longer 
even than the maximum period given. It will be seen, 
too, that affections of the throat are common to many of 
the diseases, and that the mode of spreading the disease in 
almost all cases is either by the breath or by discharges 
from the throat and nose. 



| 

1^ 




j 




= E 

||| 


j 


j 





d 


fl 


1 


1 


5 




t 


1* 


1 


1 


o* 


(M 


CO 


CO 


S rf " 


co 


?! 


CO 


S 




1 |o 


?j= 1 




p| 2 


i| 


; 


d 


g 


1 

*5J . 


1 ST "i 


i^9 




I| a 


I H 




31 


li 


|1 

^g 
|1 


ill peeling has qu 
ished, and disc 
from nose or ear 
ceased (generall 
less than six wet 


ill cough and disc 
liave ceased, an 
>K;n issuiooth : i 
than four weeks. 


liree weeks. 


ill two successive 
itiations fordiph 
bacilli have givi 
native results. 


ill cough and > 
ng have ceased, 
iionths at least. 


jur weeks. 


ill all scabs have 
off' and skin is cl 


ill all scabs have 
off and skin is cl 




H 


H 


H 


H 


H 


fa 


~ 


ri 




l| a 


g a" ^ .S 


;| 


ll 


"I 


i|| 


a 


a 


sg 


** s "in 


'"7-i-iZ 


^ 


"i a 


*"" 


^^-3 


s 


o3 


II 


|||| 


L|i 


-If 


&^-d 
ill 


ft* 


1 ll 


Cj 4 

^ 'cj 


II 


" M 


5^1 


1^1 


|5l 


.2-3 

5 


1-3.2 


J* a 




t-l 

m 


^gll 


1 

" 


! 


^5 


1 


1 


1 


"2 


i 


2$ ~ a5 13 ^ 








o 


^0 


Q 


-J> 


CO 


I s l s< 


s 


3 


s 


% 




15 


5 




1 x-2^ d o 




^ii 


^ 




Tjl 




^ 




jiiJJ! 


A 


T 


7 

o 


1 


1 


I 


1 


M 




1|s-3 


l!!t 


11 


ill 


Iff 


11 


1111 


iff 




|||fr 




rl 




S^-f 




;3:3' 5 |o 


||| 






2 2 2-3 


z: 
o i 


1 j rr 2 


5 IS 


| o 


s^ " 




SIGNS OR SYMPTOMS. 


ache, sllivering, vomiting, sore tli 
dry skin ; Jnd day, bright red ra 
ing follows, and later on disci ian 
ir from the uose and ears. Face 
iter stages. 


is like a cold in the head ; with 
, shivering, running from the : 
, and sneezing; blotchy rash a 
on the face, which looks swollen ai 


both Measles and Scarlet Fever, 1 
Y mild. Sneezing, blotchy rash, 
ids. 


throat, with lassitude and weaki 
; white points or patches on the 
a of the throat: stiffness of neuk 
letimes merely like a mild sore tl 


is like a common cold, followed 
t by fits of coughing, which g 
ilop the charactersitic long-draw] 
are often followed by vomiting. 


and stiffness in jaws, feverish: 
i) pains; swelling in front of < 
er the jaws. May be on one side 


Jiii 

Mt 

t> to p X c 
5 ^-v 2 2 
(^"o ,23^ 


severe than last; headache, I 
liting, with rash similar to last 
jine pustules, then scabs on f oreh 
hands. 




i j =[ .a 




III 


ill! 


fill 


III 


3 r^ s -z 


if J! 




a r " 


H 


H 


x 


n 


2J 


CO 


*j 




PH 
I 


: 


1 


d 


w 
o 





M 





. 






CO 


S 


OtJ 




PH 


M 





_ ^ 


02 


9 


H 


^0 




tc 


P 


i 


1 




<s 


a 

H 


S 


2 


S 


j 


5 


3 


<< , 

H 


2 


a 
& 





a 
B 


2 
a 


^ 


H 


is 


o 


2 


^ 


*-> 





02 



376 ABNORMALITIES, 

4. Accidents of a simple nature like cuts and bruises ai'6 

sure to be of common occurrence in a school 
Accidents. , , ,. , , 

where games are regularly practised, while 

those of a more serious character like sprains, dislocations, 
and fractured limbs may be possibl'e at times. The nature 
of the surface of the playground has much to do with the 
number and kind of accidents. Tumbles, with their con- 
sequent bruises and cuts, will be frequent on hard smooth 
concrete, and a surface of rough or even smooth gravel 
will cause nasty wounds on the skin and flesh, difficult to 
clean and slow to heal. The corners of the walls in the 
playground should be rounded off so as to diminish the 
risk of ugly wounds on the face and head. Whatever 
measures, however, are taken to lessen the risk of accidents, 
the high spirits and recklessness of a healthy boy will be 
sure at times to end in disaster. It is necessary, there- 
fore, when accidents do occur that the teacher should be 
able to give ' first aid ' in an efficient manner. The neces- 
sary appliances, such as bandages and lotions, should 
be ready at hand, and the teacher should be skilled in the 
use of them. Such skill can only be acquired by practical 
experience under the guidance of an instructor proficient in 
this kind of practical surgery. Merely reading of how to 
bind a wound, reduce a dislocation, and set a broken limb is 
of little avail when a disabled pupil is before you for definite 
treatment. Hence teachers, besides studying the general 
lines of surgical treatment, which is all that can be dealt 
with here, should attend an ambulance class for some time 
to gain practical skill in rendering ' first aid.' 

It would be well, too, if the older pupils learnt how to 
deal with the simpler kinds of accidents. Many accidents 
occur during the dinner hour and after school-time when 
the teacher's help is not available. Many precious moments 
are at such times often lost by excited children rushing 



ABNORMALITIES. 377 

about to find someone who can stop bleeding and bind a 
wound. The treatment of simple cuts and bruises is not 
beyond the skill of boys and girls of twelve, and the 
rendering of ' first aid ' is a very valuable practical 
accomplishment in life. A practical course in ' first aid,' 
then, should form an adjunct to the physical training of 
the school. 

In the treatment of all accidents it is necessary to act at 
once. Serious consequences may attend delay. The neces- 
sary appliances should be ready in a definite place and 
kept together in a * first-aid ' case. Lint, sponges, scissors, 
safety-pins, and carbolic solution should not have to be 
searched for. The teacher should be cool, calm, and col- 
lected, and proceed with his treatment in a deliberate and 
decided manner. There is always a certain amount of boyish 
excitement and girlish hysterics when an accident occurs, 
and a firm hand and a deliberate, cool, and smiling manner 
allay the excitement, subdue the hysterics, and soothe 
and encourage the sufferer. All but a few of the older 
children should be sent away at once. Those who are 
allowed to stay should be required to help, and should 
receive a practical lesson in ' first aid,' for it is only by 
helping in real accidents that the pupils will gain the 
confidence and resource required to deal with accidents by 
themselves. 

When the skin is broken and blood is flowing the two 

essential things to aim at are (1) to stop the 
Cuts and bleeding, (2) to keep the wound perfectly 

Wounds clean. In the case of a slight wound, when 

the blood is slowly oozing from capillaries or 
small veins and arteries, the wound should be well washed 
in cold water. Foreign bodies such as dirt and glass 
should be removed, and great care should be taken to see 
that 110 pieces are left in the wound. A piece of lint 



378 ABNORMALITIES. 

soaked in a solution of carbolic acid (one part of acid to 
sixty of water) should then be placed on the wound and 
bound firmly in its place with a bandage. The bandage 
should not be so tight as to constrict the flesh and arrest 
circulation, or so loose that the lint can move. 

Where the flesh is lacerated or the edges of the cut are 
widely separated, after cleaning the wound the flesh should 
be placed back in position or the edges brought together 
by small strips of plaster. The wound, however, should 
not be covered by the plaster. Spaces should be left for 
the wound to drain. The purpose of the plaster is simply 
to keep the edges together and not to heal. 

When a large artery or vein has been severed the bleed- 
ing may be of a serious nature. A message should at 
once be sent to the nearest doctor by an intelligent pupil 
who can describe the nature of the accident. The doctor 
can then, without waste of time, bring the appliances he 
wants for immediate use. In the meantime measures 
must be taken to check the bleeding. Steady pressure of 
the thumbs 011 the wound should be applied until medical 
help arrives, or a bandage and pad are made. In the 
simpler cases it may be sufficient to tie a linen pad, soaked 
in cold water, firmly and tightly over the wound. If this 
does not check bleeding, stronger pressure to the artery 
or vein must be applied. In the case of an artery the 
pressure should be applied at a place between the wound 
and the heart ; in the case of a vein, at a place on the side 
of the wound remote from the heart. Bleeding from an 
artery may be recognised by the bright scarlet colour of 
the blood, and by the blood gushing out in spurts 
corresponding with the beating of the pulse. The 
blood from a vein, on the contrary, is more purple 
in colour and flows steadily. If the wound is in the 
arm or leg the limb should be tightly constricted by 



ABNORMALITIES. 379 

means of a tourniquet. This appliance is most quickly 
made by tying a knot in the middle of a folded hand- 
kerchief. The knot should then be placed over the artery 
or vein and the handkerchief tied by means of a reef knot 
round the limb. The pressure can be still further increased 
if necessary by passing a stick or pencil under the hand- 
kerchief and twisting it round and round. Bleeding from 
an artery can be further checked by bending the joint 
above the wound so as to constrict the artery at this 
point. 

Dr. Lyster gives the following advice on dealing with 
such wounds : " Bleeding from the palm of the hand may 
be stopped by pressing a pad upon the wound and tightly 
binding the fingers over it. Similarly, if from the fore- 
arm, place a pad in the fold of the elbow, bend the forearm 
on the arm, and tie it tightly bent. If from the arm, press 
a pad into the armpit and bind the arm to the side. In 
the same way bleeding from the foot may be stopped by 
direct pressure, while bending the leg upon a pad behind 
the knee will stop much of the bleeding below the knee. 
Bleeding from the face and head can usually be checked 
by pressure against the bony surface beneath." 1 

Bleeding from the nose is somewhat frequent in boys' 
schools, and is sometimes difficult to stop. The child 
should not bend his head over a basin, but should sit 
as still as possible in a chair and throw the head well back 
with the arms raised. The head, face, and neck should be 
freely sponged with cold water. 

When the skin is not broken and the bleeding goes on 

inside the skin a bruise is the result. Bathe 

immediately in as cold water as can be got 

in order to stop bleeding. Much of the discolouration 

that attends a healing bruise can be prevented by such 

1 Lyster, School Hygiene, p. 318. 



380 ABNORMALITIES. 

immediate measures. To reduce swelling bathe in hot 
water. 

Occasionally it happens that a child burns himself at 
a stove or fire, or during some school enter- 
tainment when excitement is high a child's 
dress may catch fire. In the latter case throw the child 
down so as to keep the flames from enveloping her and, 
wrapping a cloak or jacket tightly round the burning 
dress, roll her to and fro along the floor until the 
flames are extinguished. In the case of a serious burn 
send at once for a doctor, but in the meantime treat the 
burn in the following manner. Remove the clothing from 
the injured part by cutting it away. If any sticks to the 
flesh, leave it there by cutting all around it. The object 
now is to exclude the air from the surface of the burn. 
Cover the burn with lint soaked in linseed oil or olive oil, 
or in a saturated solution of bicarbonate of soda. The 
best preparation, however, is carron oil, a mixture of equal 
parts of lime water and olive or linseed oil, which prepara- 
tion should be kept in all schools. Now wrap the whole in a 
thick sheet of cotton-wool or flannel, and keep in position by 
means of a light bandage. If the child is suffering from 
shock and inclined to faint, administer strong tea or coffee. 
Falls in the playground or down the school steps may 
result in a broken bone, which may be serious 
if the bone is forced through the flesh and 
skin. Bleeding and blood-poisoning are, then, factors that 
have to be guarded against. When a doctor can be got 
immediately it is better to lay the patient down, place the 
limb in an easy and supported attitude, and keep the child 
as motionless as possible. In country districts, however, 
it is often many hours before a doctor can be brought, and 
teachers in country schools should know how to set a 
broken limb. 



ABNORMALITIES. 381 

A fractured limb may be recognised by the loss of power 
of movement, and by the unnatural position of the limb. 
There is also local swelling and pain, and the fracture may 
be felt and indeed heard when the limb is slightly moved. 

In treating a broken bone the child should be kept 
absolutely motionless, and the affected part in as natural 
a position as possible. Clothing should be cut away, never 
pulled off. Bring the broken parts of the bone together 
by drawing steadily but gently on the limb and placing 
it in a natural position. Place padded splints along 
the limb and bind so that it cannot be moved. In 
fracture of the arm bind the arm to the body ; in fracture 
of the leg bind both legs together ; in fracture of the thigh 
bind round the body. When the collar-bone is broken a 
pad should be placed in the armpit and the arm put in 
a sling ; then the arm bound to the body by means of a 
broad bandage. 

Fainting, especially in hot weather and in badly venti- 
lated rooms, is not an uncommon occurrence 
Fainting, in schools. It is due to temporary heart 

Hysteria' ^ weakness. The child is extremely pale, the 
skin cold and moist, the pulse feeble and 
slow, the breathing hardly perceptible. There are no 
convulsions as is often the case in epileptic seizures. The 
child should be laid flat on his back, and in a place where 
he can freely get fresh cool air. All tight clothing about 
the neck, chest, and waist should be loosened. Sponging 
the face with cold water or water and vinegar will assist 
restoration, and smelling salts may be applied to the 
nostrils. No attempt should be made to pour anything 
down the throat while the child is unconscious, although 
when he is recovering consciousness weak stimulants should 
be given in small doses. 

An epileptic fit is a nervous complaint. It usually 



ABNORMALITIES. 

occurs very suddenly, and in the severer cases is accom- 
panied by convulsions. The child generally screams and 
falls down unconscious and rigid. Then follow convulsions, 
the hands are clenched, the limbs jerked to and fro, the 
patient becomes blue in the face and foams at the mouth, 
while the tongue is frequently bitten through. Nothing 
can be done except to prevent the patient injuring himself. 
Place him in the fresh air, loosen all tight clothing, raise 
the head slightly and support it on something soft, keep 
the body warm by wrapping in a cloak, and place some- 
thing, such as a cork or piece of wood, between the teeth. 
When the convulsions cease allow the patient to go quietly 
to sleep. 

Hysteria is another nervous complaint, common among 
emotional girls, and is attended by many symptoms show- 
ing great want of control and power of inhibition. Grinding 
the teeth, shouting, laughing, crying, screaming, stamping, 
are some of the indications that the emotional centres are 
uncontrolled by the centres of intelligence. Hysterical 
children should either be left alone and no notice taken of 
them or dealt with firmly and decidedly. Don't, under 
any circumstances, argue with," or appeal to, a hysterical 
child. Order her in a firm voice to desist, or send for a 
glass of water and dash it over the face. Leave the child 
to herself when she has recovered. 

Swimming we have advocated as an exercise for all 
children, and the different forms of life- 
saving and of restoration of the apparently 
drowned should be known by the teacher and taught to 
the elder pupils. In cases of apparent drowning send at 
once for hot blankets in which to wrap the body of the 
child and hot bottles to apply to the feet. Loosen all 
clothing about the neck and chest, draw forward the 
tongue and keep it projecting by means of an elastic band 



ABNORMALITIES. 383 

or string passed over the tongue and under the chin. 
Bub the chest and arms vigorously so as to promote 
circulation, and apply artificial respiration if the patient 
shows no signs of recovery. 

In inducing respiration by artificial means the patient 
should be placed on his back with the head and shoulders 
supported on a firm cushion, which can be made by folding 
jackets. The operator should then kneel at the patient's 
head, and grasping his arms firmly below the elbow, pull 
them slowly and steadily upwards till they are above the 
head, and keep them stretched there for two or three 
seconds : this action raises the ribs and expands the chest, 
thus causing inspiration. To produce expiration reverse 
the action, bending the arms and pressing them forcibly 
against the walls of the chest. This action forces the air 
out of the lungs. These movements should be repeated 
alternately about fifteen times per minute until breathing 
becomes spontaneous. 

When natural breathing begins proceed to encourage 
circulation and to warm the body. Rub the limbs vigor- 
ously upwards^ towards the trunk. Wrap the patient in 
warm blankets and apply hot flannels or bottles to the pit 
of the stomach, the feet, the legs, and armpits. Stimulants 
such as brandy or hot coffee should be given. When 
recovery is assured the patient should be placed in bed 
and induced to sleep. 



INDEX. 



A CCIDENTS in school, 350, 
J\. 351, 376-383. 
Action songs, 164, 165. 
Actions, automatic, 122, 123, 

135-137. 

, intelligent, 123-126, 137. 
, reflex, 120-122. 
Activities, development of, 309, 

310. 

, hereditary, 143, 147. 
, spontaneous, 308-310. 
Adaptation, automatism and, 

155-157. 

of organic functions, 187-193. 
Adenoids, 238, 350. 
Adolescence, development dur- 
ing, 147. 

Aemilius Paulus, 24. 

Agraphia, 355-359. 

Air, expired, 179, 276-278. 

, impurities in, 276-278. 

, organic substances in, 179, 
281. 

Air-cells of lungs, 179. 

Air Currents : Shaw, 287, 288, 
291-295. 

Albumen, 176, 181, 182. 

Ammianus Marcellinus, descrip- 
tion of Huns, 26-28. 

Amoeba, 99-101. 

Anacharsis, 8, 9, 11, 12, 17-21. 

Anemia, 193, 209, 348, 350, 363, 
364, 366. 

Aphasia, 355-359. 

Archery at Harrow, 41. 

encouraged by Edward III., 
29. 



Aristotle, 13. 

Arithmetic, practical, 311, 312. 

Arnold at Kugby, 65, 66. 

Art training, 156, 167, 168, 171. 

Arteries, adaptation of size of, 

178, 190, 191. 
, bleeding of, 378, 379. 
, nerves to, 188, 190. 
, structure of, 177, 178. 
Asceticism in Mediaeval Church, 

30, 31. 

Athenian education, barrack life 
of Epheboei, 21. 

, boxing, 17. 
, care of skin, 16, 17. 

, decline of, 23. 

, exercises in Palaestra, 16. 

, home education, 14. 
, javelin throwing, 18. 

, leaping, 18. 

, music and gymnastic, 12, 

13. 

, pancratium, 17. 

, preparation for Avar, 19, 20. 

, racing, 18. 

, school education, 14, 15. 

, state control of, 13. 

, throwing the discus, 18. 

, training in endurance, 17- 
20. 

, wrestling, 17. 
Athens, education at, 12-23. 
, oath of allegiance, 21. 
, position of women at, 22. 
Atoms, 97. 

Attention in the development of 
habit, 149-151. 



384 



INDEX. 



385 



Attitudes, exhaustion indicated 

by, 362, 363. 
, expressive, 359. 
, faulty, 314, 315, 319, 321. 

in reading, 213, 317. 

in running, 239, 248, 249. 

in sitting, 153, 164, 213, 239, 
315. 

in standing, 153, 164, 239, 
317, 318, 322, 323. 

- in walking, 239, 248, 249. 

in writing, 213, 239, 315-317, 
320, 321. 

, remedial exercises, 323, 324. 
, training in, 319, 320. 
Automatic actions, 122, 123, 135- 

137. 

Automatism, 82, 153. 
, adaptation and, 155-157. 

in complex activities, 154-157. 

in coordination of movement, 
84, 85. 

Axis-cylinder, the, 113. 



BALL games, see Games and 
contests. 
Bandages for burns, 380. 

for cuts, 377, 378. 
- for fractures, 381. 

for serious bleeding, 378, 379. 
Barbarians, 26-28. 

, influence of Home on, 27-28. 
, training in hardihood and 

endurance of, 26, 27. 
Barnard : Journal of Education, 

61. 
Basedow, physical exercises of, 

54. 

Bathing, 259, 260. 
, exercises followed by, 252, 

262, 268, 269. 
, home, 269. 

, school, 262, 263, 266-269. 
Baths, 252. 

at Eome, 24. 

, shower, 266-269. 
Bedrooms, hygiene of, 214, 215. 
PHY. ED. 



Bile, 183. 

Bleeding, arterial, 378, 379. 
, venous, 378, 379. 
Blood, 175-177, 193. 
, arterial, 177. 
, circulation of, 210, 211. 
, venous, 177, 192. 
Bodily activities in relation to 
mental, 75-78. 
in school, 307-314. 

, repression of, 308. 

Body, function of, 77, 78. 

in relation to mind, 75. 
Borde : Sleep, Rising, and Dress, 

38. 
Boucicaut, account of training of 

a squire, 35. 
BoyTcin : Journal of Education, 

61, 62. 

Brain, 126-128. 
-, correlating action of, 126, 

127. 

, fore, 126-128. 
, hind, 126-128. 
, mid, 126, 128. 
, nerve centres in, 134-141. 
Breathing, deep, 181. 

exercises, 154, 166, 173, 180, 
237-239. 

Breathlessness, 192-194,225,234, 

236, 240. 
Bronchi, 179. 
Bruises, 379, 380. 
Brush drawing, 164, 165. 
Bulb, 128, 134. 

, cranial nerve centres in, 134. 
, nerve centres in, 133. 
, organic centres in, 188-193. 
Burns, 351, 380. 



CALVINISM and asceticism, 
46, 47. 

and physical education, 46, 
47. 

and Sunday recreation, 47. 
Capillaries, 177, 178. 
Carbohydrates, 182-184. 

25 



386 



INDEX. 



Carbonic acid, 179, 276, 277 (see 
Waste products). 

, its influence on fatigue, 

279, 280. 

, measurement of, 281. 

Cardboard modelling, 164, 165. 

Carotid artery, 107. 

Carron oil, 380. 

Carving, 94, 160, 171, 312. 

Catarrh, 369. 

Cell activity, 99-105. 

, action of stimuli on, 105- 
109. 

, by-products of, 102, 104. 
, influence of blood on, 107. 
Cells, action of external forces 

on, 106. 
, communities of, 99, 100, 109- 

111. 
, differentiation of, 99, 100, 

109-111. 

, glandular, 100-102. 
, life processes in, 99-105. 
, living substance of, 102. 
, metabolism of, 105-107. 
, muscle, 100-102, 105-107. 
, nerve, 101, 102, 106, 107, 

109. 

, sensory, 101, 106, 107. 
, shape of, 101, 102. 
, special functions of, 100, 

109-111. . 

, structure of, 101, 102. 
, walls of, 101, 102. 
Cerebellum, 128. 
, afferent paths from spinal 

cord, 133, 134, 136. 
, connexion witli cerebrum, 

135, 136. 
, efferent paths to the spinal 

cord, 133, 135, 136. 
, function of, 135-137. 
, maintenance of equilibrium 

by, 135-137. 
, nerve paths to cerebrum, 

135. 

, sensory impulses to, 136. 
, structure of, 134. 



Cerebral hemispheres, see Cere- 
brum. 

Cerebrum, 78, 91. 
, afferent paths from spinal 

cord, 133. 
, commissural fibres in, 138, 

140. 
, connexion with cerebellum, 

135, 136. 

, connexion with organic func- 
tions, 188, 189. 

, control of activities by, 139, 
140. 

, correlation and coordination 
by, 139, 140. 

, development of, 127, 128. 

, efferent paths to spinal cord, 
132, 135. 

, function of, 138. 

, motor centres in, 138-140. 

, nerve centres in, 125, 126, 
138-140. 

, sensory centres in, 138 , 
139. 

, structure of, 138, 

, unifying action of, 125, 126, 
140, 141. 

Chalk drawing, 164, 165. 

Change of work, 213. 

Charterhouse, sports at, 66. 

Chest capacity, 194, 236, 237. 
, development of, 180, 181. 

, measurement of, 240. 

Chicken pox, 375. 

Chivalry : Cornish, 36. 

Chivalry, castle schools, 34. 

, degeneration of, 36. 

, disciplinary effect of, 36. 

, education in refinement, 34. 

, education of pages, 34. 

, exercises of pages, 34. 

, military training of squires, 
34, 35. 

, sports, 34. 

, squires, 34, 35. 

, the Church and, 34, 36. 

Chorea, 367, 368. 

Choroid coat, 329, 



INDEX. 



387 



Church of the Middle Ages, the : 

, ascetic ideal of, 30, 31. 

, attitude to physical educa- 
tion, 30-33. 

, regard for education by, 31. 

, support of Chivalry by, 34, 
36. 

Circulation, defective, 314, 315. 

, influence of exercise on, 190, 
191, 195. 

Circulatory system, 87-90, 177, 
188, 194, 195, 

Classroom, testing of air in, 
282-285. 

Classrooms, hygiene of, 213. 

Clay modelling, 164, 165. 

Clay : Modern School Buildings, 
267, 268. 

Cleanliness, 212. 

education in, 260-270. 

habits of, 261. 

influence of example, 263. 

instruction in, 261, 270-273. 

necessity for, 258, 259. 

of clothing, 256-258. 

of rooms, 256, 263. 

of the skin, 258-260. 

, offences against, 264, 265. 

, school tone with regard to, 
263. 

, training in, 261-270. 

Clothing, 256-258. 

Comenius : Orbis Fictus, 49. 

Commissural fibres, 138. 

Commissure, white, 129, 132. 

Commonwealth and Sunday re- 
creation, 48. 

Competition in school, 168-170. 

Competitive life, 76, 77, 93. 

Compleat Gentleman : Peacham, 
49. 

Connective tissue, 183, 184. 

Consciousness, health of, 111. 

, influence of organic functions 
on, 195, 196. 

-, unifying function of, 110. 

Consumption, 256, 347, 348, 364- 
366, 369, 374. 



Contests and Games, see Games 

and contests. 
Continuation schools, 252, 253, 

271-273. 

Convection, 291, 292. 
Cookery, teaching of, 152. 
Cooperation in school, 168-170. 
Cooperative life, 76, 77, 93. 
Coordination of movements, 109. 

of nervous impulses, 137. 
Cornish : Chivalry, 36. 
Corpora quadrigemina, 128. 
Corpuscles, red, 176, 177, 193. 
, white, 101, 176, 177. 
Correlation, 109. . 

of activities, 120-126. 

of centres of speech, 356-358. 

of nervous impulses, 137. 

of organs of sense and move- 
ment, 85, 86, 325, 338, 354, 
355. 

Courtly Academies, 49-51. 
Creatiu, 102. 

Cricket, see Games and contests. 
Crura cerebri, 128, 132. 
Cuts, 350, 377-379. 
Cyropaedeia : Xenophon, 3, 4. 



DANCING, 165. 
Day schools, physical train- 
ing at, 67, 68. 
De Arte Gymnast ica : Hieronymus 

Mercurialis, 45. 

Defective children, conditions 
conducive to weakness, 347. 
, examination by school 
doctor, 349, 351. 

, by teacher, 350, 351, 

366. 

, mental weakness, 353-362. 

, special schools for, 348, 
349, 365, 366. 

, treatment in school, 348, 

349, 361, 362, 365, 366. 
Defects, structural, 360. 
Deformity, 325, 326. 
Degeneration, 219, 223, 233. 



INDEX. 



Dendrites, 113, 114, 116, 117. 
Denmark, physical education in, 

63. 
Desks, adaptability to stature, 

318: 

, adjustable, 318. 
, dual, 318. 
, evils attending misuse of, 

311, 314-318. 
, eye defects due to abuse of, 

339. 

, form for reading 1 , 317. 
, for sitting, 315. 
, for standing-, 317, 318. 
, for writing, 316, 317. 
, minus position of, 316. 
, misuse of, 307. 
, proper use of, 313. 
,. single, 318. 
, suitable form of, 342. 
Development during adolescence, 

147. 

, early period of, 148, 149. 
, influence of exercise on, 325, 

326. 

, of experience on, 148, 149. 
- , of imitation on, 148, 149. 
, of impulse on, 148. 
, of organic functions of 

mental, 195, 196. 
, law of, 325, 323. 

of impulse, 144, 145. 

of instincts, 144, 145. 

of interest, 146, 147. 

of motor centres, 147. 

of nerve cells, 142, 143. 

of nerve centres, 143-147. 

of nervous function, 143. 
- of skill, 146-149. 

, period of, 144-147. 

, rate of, 144. 

, signs of defective, 353-562. 

, time to begin training, 145. 

Diaphragm, 180. 

Digestion, process of, 182, 183. 

Digestive system, 87-90, 175, 

177, 181-184, 194, 195. 
Diphtheria, 369, 370, 372, 375. 



Discipline, aim of, 308, 309. 

Discus, 18. 

Diseases, infectious, 256, 259. 

- of the skin, 273-275. 

Draughts, 290-295. 

Drawing, 151, 153, 156, 158-160, 

162-165, 167, 171. 
, free arm, 313, 343. 
Dress, 252. 
Dressing-rooms, 252. 
Drill^ 153, 154, 166, 173. 
Drowning, 382, 383. 
Drugs, toxic action of, 198-200. 



T71DUCATION, aim of, 72-75. 
Pj , primitive, 2. 

, three aspects of, 73, 74. 

Educational Theories in England : 
Hark, 230, 23 1 . 

Edward III., letter to Lord- 
Lieutenant of Kent, 29. 

Elocution, 171. 

Elijot : Bake named theGovernoiir, 
37, 43. 

Emile : Rousseait., 53, 54. 

Energy, chemical, 97, 98. 

, kinetic, 96, 97. 

of bodily work, 197. 

of body, 95-99, 108. 

of food, 95, 98, 99. 
, potential, 96, 97. 

, transformation of, 96-98. 
England, physical education in, 

65-73. 
English History from Original 

Sources, 29. 
Epheboei, 20, 21. 
, after decline of Athens, 21, 

22. 

Epilepsy, 348, 381, 382. 
Equilibrium, maintenance of, 

135. 

Eton, sports at, 53. 
Erclt/n. : Diary, 50. 
Example of teachers, 263. 
Excretory system, 87-90,184-186, 

194-195. 



INDEX. 



389 



Excretory system, healthy action 

of, 211, 212. 

Excursions, 250, 251, 312. 
Exercise, 108, 211, 212. 
, effect on circulation, 222, 

224. 

, on excretion, 224, 225. 
, on functioning power, 218- 

220, 222, 223. 
, on general nutrition, 221- 

225. 

, on health, 233, 234. 
, on respiration, 222, 223, 

233, 234. 
, on the whole body, 219- 

221. 
, evils attending insufficiency 

of, 326. 

, exhaustion and, 225. 
, fatigue and, 225. 
, growth and, 225. 
, its influence 011 organic func- 
tions, 195. 

Exercises, 153, 154, 166, 173. 
, bathing after, 252, 262, 268, 

269. 

, dress for, 252. 
, educative value of, 241, 242. 
, effect on character, 241-243, 

245, 246. 

for older pupils, 247. 

for schools, 246-2 19. 

for young children, 246, 247. 
, natural impulses and, 242, 

243. 

, physical, 248, 249. 
, remedial, 323, 324. 
, systems of, 243, 244. 

to develop breathing, 151, 
166, 173, 237-239. 

- to develop the chest, 213, 236- 
238. 

the whole system, 234. 

to strengthen the heart, 235, 
236. 

to train erect attitude, 239. 
Exhaustion, 197, 198, 202-204, 

374. 



Exhaustion, exercise and, 225. 

, nervous, 347, 348. 350, 358, 
362-364. 

Experience, influence on develop- 
ment, 148, 149. 

Expired air, humidity of, 277- 
278, 282-285. 

, impurities in, 179, 276-. 
278. 

, organic substances in, 281. 
, permissible limit of im- 
purity in, 276, 277, 288. 

-, temperature of, 277, 278. 
, testing of, 281-285. 

Eye, causes of defective sight. 
327, 328, 335-337. 

, coats of, 328, 329. 

-, conditions of healthy growth, 
327, 328. 

, convergence of axes, 330. 
331. 

defects due to close work. 
335, 336. 

- due to desk work, 339. 

due to poor health, 336. 

; due to school life, 326-328. 

due to unhealthy environ- 
ment, 336, 337. 

, increase in, 326-328. 
, defects of, 311, 314, 316, 317. 

development by practical ac- 
tivities, 337-339. 

during period of rapid growth, 
337. 

, fatigue of, 336, 337. 

-, focussing adjtistment of, 331, 

332. 

, growth of, 336. 
, healthy school conditions, 

337-3 J 3. 
, long sight, 334. 

movements of, 330-332. 
, muscles of, 331. 

, necessity of varied activity 
of, 338, 339. 

- -, normal sight, 333. 

- of childhood, 327, 335. 
, plasticity of, 335, 336. 



Eye, refractive media of, 329-331 . 

, short sight, 334. 

, signs of defective sight, 343. 

, structure of, 328. 

, testing of, 343-346. 

, use in desk work, 342, 343. 

, in the infant school, 339. 

, in the upper school, 339. 



FACIAL expression, 353, 359, 
362. 

Fainting, 107, 381. 

Fat, 101, 102, 104, 176, 181-184. 

Fatigue, 108, 195. 

, conditions favourable to re- 
sistance of, 208-212. 

, effect of blood on, 208-211. 

, of change of work on, 205, 
213. 

, of circulation on, 210, 211. 

, of exercise on resistance 
to, 211, 212. 

, of fresh air on, 209, 210. 

, of nourishment on, 208, 
209. 

, of periods of rest on, 204, 
205. 

, exercise and, 225. 

, general bodily, 204, 205. 

in sitting, 315. 

, influence of carbonic acid on, 

279, 280. 

, of foul air on, 276-281. 
, of humidity on, 278-280, 

303. 
, of temperature on, 278- 

280. 

, local, 205. 
, muscular, 200, 201 . 
, nature of, 198, 200-202. 
- , nervous, 201, 205. 

of the heart, 235. 

- , recuperation from, 204, 205, 

208-212. 

, school work and, 212-217. 
, sensation of, 198. 
, signs of, 203. 



FeUenberg : his conception of 

physical training, 60. 
Fencing, 154-156, 161, 164-166, 

173, 245, 247. 
Figuring, 163, 164. 
First aid, 376, 377. 

, instruction in, 376, 377. 
Fives, see Games and contests. 
Food, a source of energy, 95, 98, 

99. 
, reserves of, 104, 105, 183, 

184, 208, 223, 224. 

substances, 182. 

, transformation of, 99, 102. 

Football, see Games and con- 
tests. 

Foreign language, teaching of, 
151. 

Forewords : Fumi'vall, 34. 

Fractures, 351, 380, 381. 

France, physical education in, 
64, 65. 

Free-arm drawing, 164, 313, 343. 

drill, 164, 166. 

movements, 164, 313. 
- writing, 313, 343. 

Freeman : Schools of Hellas, 14, 

15, 21. 
Fuller on Sunday recreation, 

47. 
I-'nr nil-all : Forewords, 34. 



GAMES and contests, 94, 146, 
148, 162-165, 168, 173, 180. 

after school life, 252, 253. 

at Burgdorf, 62, 63. 

at Charterhouse, 66. 
at English public schools, 

52, 53, 65-67. 

at English secondary day 

schools, 67, 68. 

at Eton, 53. 

at Harrow, 41. 

at Rugby, 65, 66. 

at Shrewsbury, 40, 41. 

at the Courtly Academies, 
50, 51. 



INDEX. 



391 



Games and contests at the Mer- 
chant Taylors' School, 43-45, 
66. 

at the Philanthropinum, 
54. 

at the Restoration, 48. 

at Uppingham, 66. 

at Winchester, 40. 
, Athenian, 16-20. 
, baths after, 252. 
, Chivalrio, 34-36. 
, clubs for, 253. 

, dress for, 252. 
for older pupils, 247. 

for young children, 246, 
247. 

founded on natural in- 
stincts, 244. 

, Homeric, 5. 

in continuation schools, 
253. 

in England, 65-71. 

in France, 64, 65. 

in Germany, 61-63. 

in Hesse, 62. 
in Prussia, 63. 

in Saxony, 62. 

- in Sweden, 63, 64. 

in the nineteenth century, 
60-71. 

in the seventeenth and 

eighteenth centuries, 46-53. 

, instructor for, 44, 45, 169- 

173, 248. 

, Mediaeval, 28-32. 

, mental and moral effect 

of, 244-246. 

of Gutsmuths, 59. 

of Mulcaster, 43-45. 
, Olympic, 6-10, 16. 

on Sundays and holidays, 

29, 30, 47, 48. 

, organisation of, 170-173. 

, Persian, 4. 

prohibited by statute, 29- 
30. 

-, Renaissance, 37-45. 

, Roman, 25. 



Games and contests, school or- 
ganisation for, 250. 
, Spartan, 11. 

to develop chest capacity, 
244-246. 

to develop the physique, 
234. 

, training of character by, 

168-170. 

Gargantua : Rabelais, 38. 
Geometry, practical, 311, 312. 
German gymnastics, 244, 245. 
Germany, physical education in, 

63. 

Gestures, 353, 359, 362. 
Giacomo Soranzo on sports of the 

English nobility, 39. 
Girls, gymnastics for, 62. 
, physical education of, 68. 
, training during Middle 

Ages, 33, 34. 
Gladiators at Rome, 25. 
Glands, digestive, 190, 191. 
, gastric, 100, 104, 182. 
, pancreatic, 183. 
, salivary, 100, 104, 182. 
, sebacious, 254, 255. 
, sweat, 100, 105, 186, 254, 255. 
Glycogen, 101, 102, 104, 105, 108, 

183, 184. 
Governour, Boke named the : 

Elyot, 37, 43. 
Grey matter of nervous tissue, 

115, 128-131, 138. 
Growth, conditions affecting, 

229-232. 

-, exercise and, 225, 325, 326. 
, innate power of, 226. 
, law of, 325, 326. 
, period of rapid increase in, 

217, 232, 337. 

, signs of inadequate, 233. 
, stature and, 226-233. 
, variations of, 226-229. 
, weight and, 226-233. 
Gutsmuths : Gymnastics for 

Youth, 55-60. 
Gymnasia in Greece, 15. 



392 



INDEX. 



Gymnasia in Rome, 24. 
Gymnastics, introduction into 

primary schools, 62. 
- , into training colleges in 

Germany, 62. 

, invention of simultaneous, 63. 
, Swedish, 64. 
Gymnastics for Youth: Giitumuths, 

55-60. 



HABIT, action of intelligence 
in, 149, 150. 
, action of the will in, 149, 

150. 
, attention and development 

of, 149-151. 
, complex activities based on, 

153. 

, development of, 149-157. 
, executive forms of, 157. 

formation of nerve paths, 150. 
, general forms of, 156, 157. 
, influence of lapse of time on, 

150, 151. 

, of repetition on, 149-151. 
, mental, 156, 157. 

precautions against mistakes, 
152, 153. 

Haemoglobin, 176, 177, 209. 

, oxy-, 176, 177. 

Handicraft, 94, 151, 153, 164, 

165, 167, 171, 312. 
Harrow, archery at, 41. 
Heart, 175, 177, 188, 193, 235, 

236. 
, adaptation of action of, 189, 

190. 

weakness, 348, 350, 364. 
Heat, bodily, 184-186. 

, , influence of exercise on, 

191. 

, , loss of, 191, 257, 277, 279. 
Hellas, see Greece. 
Helvetius on physical training, 

52. 

Hereditary powers, 143, 147. 
Herodotus : History^ 8. 



Hesse, physical education in, 62. 
Hieronymus Mercurialis : De Arte 

Gymnastica, 45. 
History, 312. 

History of Eton College : Lyte, 53. 
History of Pedagogy : Rammer, 

54, 55. 
History of the German People at 

the close of the Middle Ages : 

Janssen, 32. 
History of Winchester College : 

Leach, 40. 

Hockey, see Games and contests. 
Holiday camps, 250, i51. 
Home work, 214, 215. 
Homer, religious games, 5, 6. 
House system, 67, 68, 172, 173. 
Household Ordinances : Liber 

Niger, 34. 
Humidity in ventilation, 303, 

304. 
, its influence on fatigue, 277- 

280, 303. 

, measurement of, 282. 
Humour, aqueous, 329. 
, vitreous, 329. 
Huns, horsemanship of, 26. 
, mode of life of the, 26. 
, the food of, 27. 
, wandering life of, 27. 
Hygiene, instruction in. 69, 70. 
of school buildings, 213. 
, practice of, 70, 71. 
Hysteria, 382. 



TLIAD, 6. 

Itinerated History, 39. 

Imitation, 147-149, 158, 353. 

Impulse, development to pur- 
pose, 146-148. 

, nerve centres and, 144, 145, 
148. 

, period of training, 146, 147. 

Impulses, development of, 144, 
145, 309, 310. 

, inhibitory, 190. 

, instinctive, 309, 310. 



INDEX. 



393 



Industrial revolution and phy- 
sical education, 68. 
Infectious diseases, 256, 259, 
350. 

, detection of, 370-372. 
, disinfection of schools, 
369, 370. 

, liability of children to, 
368. 

, means of infection, 369- 
371, 375. 

, period of incubation, 371, 
375. 

, school closure, 372, 373. 
, record of, 373. 
, signs of, 370-372, 375. 
, table of, 375. 
Influenza, 369, 374. 
Inhibition, 117-119, 122, 190, 

319, 354, 362, 382. 
Inlets, 289, 290, 297, 298. 
Instinctive actions, nervous cen- 
tres for control of, 121, 122. 
Instincts, 75. 
, artistic, 167, 168. 
, development of, 144, 145, 

309, 310. 
, of skill from, 146, 147. 

of curiosity, 145. 

of imitation, 147-149. 

of play, 147, 148. 
, practical, 145. 
Instruction in cleanliness, 261, 

270-273. 

in hygiene, 69, 70. 

, insufficiency of, 70. 

in physiology, 69, 70. 

in swimming, 269, 270. 

in the rearing of children, 
367. 

in ventilation, 305, 306. 
Instructors of games, 44, 45, 67, 

169-173, 2481 
Intelligence, actions controlled 

by, 123-126, 137. 
, function of, 123-125. 

in practical life, 75, 76. 
, past experience and, 124. 



Intelligence, unifying action of, 

124, 125. 
Intensive study, 151, 152, 154, 

165. 

Intercostal muscles, 180. 
Interest, development of, 146, 

147. 

Iris, 329, 330. 
Isolation of children, 275. 



JAHN and the turning system 
in Germany, 60, 61. 

James : Text-Book -of Psychology, 
357, 359. 

James I. : declaration of sports, 
47. 

Janssen : History of the German 
People at the Close of the Middle 
Ages, 32. 

Jesuits, view of physical educa- 
tion, 46. 

Johnson, Headmaster of Win- 
chester, 40. 

Jones : School Hygiene, 368. 

Journal of Education, 61. 

Jumping, 148, 153, 162, 164, 166, 
173, 238, 240, 247. 



JERR : Report of the Educa- 
tion Committee of the London 

County Council, 280, 342. 
Kidneys, 177, 186. 
Knowledge, sensations and, 79, 

80. 



LACEDAEMON, see Sparta. 
Lacroix : Military and Re- 
ligious Life in the Middle Ages, 
35. 

Lactic acid, see Waste products. 

Lavatories, 265, 266. 

Leach : History of Winchester 
College, 40. 

Lens, 328, 329. 

, adjustment of, 331, 332. 



394 



INDEX. 



Liber Niger : Household Ordin- 
ances, 34. 
Life and Letters of Edward 

Thring : Parker, 65. 
Life of Dr. Pusey : Russell, 65. 
Life processes in cells, 99-105. 
Lighting, artificial, 340-342. 
, natural, 340. 
Ling : physical education in 

Sweden, 63, 64. 
Literature, 168. 
Liver, 100, 104, 105, 108, 183, 

184. 
Living substance, instability of, 

103. 

, life processes of, 99-105. 

, molecular changes in, 103, 

104. 

, structure of, 102, 103. 

, peculiar property of, 103. 
Locke: Thoughts Concerning Edu- 
cation, 51, 52. 
Loves : Lucian, 14, 15. 
Lucian, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17-21. 
Lungs, 175, 176, 365. 
, capillaries of, 179. 
, development of, 180, 181. 
, structure of, 179. 
Luther and physical exercises, 

46. 

Lycurgus, 11, 12. 
Lymph, 178. 
Lyster : School Hygiene, 274, 275, 

366, 379. 
Lyte : History of Eton College, 53. 

MAHAFFY: Old Greek Educa- 
tion, 64. 
Mark : Educational Theories in 

England, 230, 231. 
Matter, indestructibility of, 96. 
, molecular structure of, 97. 
Measles, 364, 371, 372, 374, 375. 
, German, 375. 
Medical officers, appointment of, 

69. 
Medullary sheath, 115. 



Melville : account of his boy- 
hood, 40. 

Mental activity, cerebral activity 
and, 79. 

, influence of purpose on, 
75. 

, instincts and, 75. 
, relation to bodily activity, 
75-78. 

, self-conscious direction 

of, 77. 

- deficiency, 347, 348, 350. 

, agraphic signs of, 358, 
359. 

, aphasic sfgns of, 355-358. 

, indications in expression, 
359. 

, mental signs of, 353, 

354. 

, motor signs of, 354, 355. 

, structural indication of, 
360. 

, treatment in school, 361, 
362. 

expression, 359. 
Merchant Taylors' School, sports 

at, 45, 66. 

Metabolism, 87, 105-107. 
Mid brain, nerve centres in, 133, 

137. 
Middle Ages, dual aspect of edu- 

cation, 33. 

, physical education in the, 
26-36. 

, training of girls, 33, 34. 
, punishments in the, 32. 
, sports in the, 28-30. 
Military and Religious Life in the 

Middle Ages : Lacroix, 35. 
Military evolutions at Eome, 24. 
Milton : Tractate on Education, 

50. 
Mind, attributes necessary for 

effective life, 76, 77, 92, 93. 
, function of, 75-77. 

in relation to body, 75-78. 
Modelling, 94, 160, 164, 165, 171, 

312. 



INDEX. 



395 



Modern School Buildings : Clay, 

267, 268. 
Molecules, 97. 
Montaigne: Of the Education of 

Children, 38, 39. 
Montmorency : State Intervention 

in English Education, 68, 69. 
Moral deficiency, 348, 350, 360, 

361. 
Mosso, experiments on fatigue, 

200, 201. 

Movement, analysis of, 81-85. 
, coordination of, 83-85, 120. 
Movements, automatic, 82. 
, free-arm, 313. 
, irregular, 354, 355, 362, 367, 

368. 

, reflex, 82. 
, voluntary, 81, 83. 
Midcaster : Positions, 42-45. 
Mumps, 371, 375. 
Muscles, extensor, 118. 
, flexor, 118. 
Muscular impressions, 157. 
Music, 154, 165, 171. 

I^TATURE study, 167. 
1.M , practical, 312. 

Needlework, teaching of, 152, 

163. 

Nero, 24. 

Nerve, pneumo-gastric, 188. 
Nerves, cranial, 134. 
, motor, 81. 
, sensory, 79. 
, spinal, 129-134. 
Nerve cells, consciousness and, 

110. 

, development of, 142, 143. 

, function of, 109-111. 

, healthy functioning of, 

110, 111. 

, structure of, 113-115. 
centres, acquired organisation 
of, 144-147, 150. 

, adaptive function of, 120. 

, cerebral, 125, 126, 138- 
140. 



Nerve centres, complex organisa- 
tion of, 120. 

, coordination produced at, 
120. 

, correlated activities or- 
ganised by, 120-126. 

, development of, 143-147. 

, distributive, 133, 134. 

for automatic action, 84, 
85, 90, 91, 122, 123. 

for cranial nerves, 134. 

for intelligent action, 75, 
90, 91, 123-126. 

for organic functions, 188- 
192. 

for reflex action, 121, 122. 
, function of, 119, 120. 

, hereditary organisation 
of, 143, 144, 147. 
, impulse and, 144, 145, 148. 
- in the bulb, 133. 

in the mid-brain, 133, 137, 
140. 

of mental expression, 359. 

of speech, 355-357. 
, orders of, 120-126. 
, organic, 89-91. 

, spinal, 129-132, 140. 
, structure of, 119. 
, visual, 139. 
fibres, 113. 

Nervous impulses, afferent, 133, 
134. 

, conduction of, 119. 
, excitatory, 117-119. 
, inhibitory, 117-119. 
, interference of, 119. 

induction, 119. 

system, nourishment of, 208, 
209. 

, structure of, 126. 
, unifying action of, 109- 
111. 

Neural canal, 126, 129. 
Neurones, afferent, 116. 
, arrangement in spinal cen- 
tres, 130-132. 
, chains of, 133, 134. 



396 



INDEX. 



Neurones, efferent, 116. 

, intercalary, 116. 

, motor, 116. 

, organisation of, 116, 117, 

140. 

, sensory, 116. 
, specialisation of function, 

115-117. 

, structure of, 115. 
Nucleus, 101. 
Nugae Etonenses,.53. 
Nutrition, 175-178, 181,183,184, 

195, 208, 209. 
, defective, 364-367. 
, effects of exercise on, 221- 

225. 



QECONOMICUS: Xenoplion,22, 

Of the Education of Children: 

Montaigne, 38, 39. 
Oil droplets, 101. 
Old Greek Education : Mahnffy, 

64. 

Olympiad, 6, 7. 
Olympic games, 6-10, 15. 

, national influence of, 9. 

, prizes at, 8. 

, suppression of, 9. 
Open air pursuits, 211, 216. 
Optic thalami, 128. 
Orbis Pictns : Comenitix, 49. 
Order, mechanical, 307, 308. 
, rational, 308, 309. 
Organic centre, 194. 

life of the body, 87-90. 
Organisation of games at public 

schools, 67. 

of lessons, 312, 340. 

of physical training in day 
schools, 67, 68. 

of school work, 213-217. 
Outlets, 289, 290, 295-297. 
Outlines of Psychology : Royce, 

160. 

Oxygen, 87, 88, 96-99, 104, 175, 
176, 178-180, 187, 209, 210. 



T>AEDOTRIBE, 16. 

X Painting, 153, 160, 162, 

167, 171. 
Palaestra, 14, 15, 16. 

Pancratium, 7. 

Paper cutting, 166. 

folding, 166. 

Parker : Life and Letters of 
Edivard Thring, 65. 

Peacham : Compleat Gentleman, 
49. 

Peptones, 182. 

Perception, activity of, 80, 81. 

, relation of, to action, 85. 

Perceptual activity, 157-162. 
, analysis of, 85, 86. 

Perspiration, 186, 255. 

, its effect on the atmosphere, 
255, 256, 259. 

Pestalozzi, inadequate concep- 
tion of physical training, 60. 

Philanthropinum, 54. 

Phthisis, see Consumption. 

Physical education, aim of, 91- 
93. 

at Rome, 23-26. 

at Sparta, 10-12. 

, attitude of the Mediaeval 
Church to, 30-32. 

based on natural instincts, 
74. 

- during the Renaissance, 
37-45. 

in Ancient Greece, 3-23. 

in day schools, 67, 68. 

in Denmark, 63. 

in England, 65-71. 

in France, 64, 65. 

in Germany, 60-63, 

in Hesse, 62. 

in primary schools, 68, 69. 

in primitive times, 2, 3. 

in Prussia, 62, 63. 

in public schools, 66, 67. 

in Saxony, 62. 

- in Sweden, 63, 64. 

- in the" Middle Ages, 26- 
36. 



INDEX. 



397 



Physical education in the n!n3- 

teenth century, 60-71. 
- in the seventeenth and 

eighteenth centuries, 45-53. 
, mental aim of, 91-93. 

of girls, 68. 

- in Athens, 22, 23. 

in Persia, 5. 

in primitive times, 3. 

in Sparta, 12. 

in the Middle Ages, 
33, 34. 

, Persian, 3-5. 

physical aim of, 91, 92. 

- , relation to intellectual and 

moral education, 72-75. 
, relatim to practical life, 

72-75, 91. 

Physical exercises, 94, 161, 352. 
Phvsiology, instruction in, 69, 

70. 

Pigment, 101. 
Plasma, 176, 182, 183. 
Plato : Republic, 13, 261, 262. 
Playgrounds, 251 , 37(>. 
Playing fields, 251. 
Plenum System, 299-301. 
PlutarcJt on Koimin education, 

24. 

Pneumo-gastric neiv^, 188. 
Pneumonia, 374. 
Pons, the, 128, 134. 
/Vs-// /<//,* .. Mnlcuxter, 42-45. 
Practical activities, advanced 

training in, 164, 165. 

, a?sthetic element in, 163, 

167, 1C8. 

, competition and coopera- 
tion in, 76, 77, 93. 

, correlation in, 160, 162. 

, development of habit in, 

149. 

, development of the eye 

by, 338, 339. 

, early training in, 148, 151- 

154, 163, 164. 
- in school, 93, 94, 162-170, 

.311, 312, 



Practical activities, intellectual 
element in, 163, 167. 
, intensive study in, 151, 

152, 154, 165. 

, moral qualities required 
in, 76, 92, 93, 163, 168-170. 

, muscular impressions in, 
157, 160. 

, necessity for, 310, 311. 

, perceptual element in, 85. 

, practical element in, 162, 
163-166. 

, practical training in, 160. 

, preparatory practice for, 

153, 154, 163, 173. 

, relation of education to, 

72, 73, 91-93. 

, relation of physical educa- 
tion to, 94, 241-6. 
, social elemeut in, 163, 168- 

170. 

, tactual impressions in, 

159. 

, value of, 311. 
, visual impressions in, 158- 

160. 

, wide range of school, 165. 
Practical measurements, 167, 171. 
Preparatory exercises, 153, 154, 

166, 173. 

Primary schools, physical edu- 
cation in, 68, 69. 

, scholastic tradition in, 69. 
1'i-iiiciplfft of PI uj Biological 7V//- 

chology : Wandt, 113, 114, 

127. 
Principles of Teaching : Wei ton, 

72, 86, 164, 167, 168, 2CO, 310, 

313, 342. 

Procession of the Hod, 32. 
Proteids, 182, 184. 
Protoplasm, 101-104. 
Prussia, physical education in, 

62, 63. 
Public schools, physical training 

at, 66, 67. 
Punishments in the Middle Ages, 

32, 



INDEX. 



Pupil of the eye, the, 330. 
Puritanism and physical educa- 
tion, 46. 
Purpose, 76, 77. 
Pyramidal tracts, 132. 



J^ABELAIS : Gargantua, 38. 

Raunier : History of Peda- 
gogy, 54, 55. 

Reading, 151. 

, attitude in, 317. 

, eye defects due to, 340. 

, size of print, 342. 

Readings in European History : 
Robinson, 26-28. 

Bearing of children, instruction 
in, 367. 

Recitation, 164, 165. 

Recreation grounds, 253. 

Recreative intervals, 213, 214. 

occupations, 213, 216. 

Reflex actions, 121, 122. 
, inhibition of, 122. 

Reformation, decadence the re- 
sult of, 46. 

, effect of, 45, 46. 

Renaissance, physical education 
in the, 37-45. 

, theory of physical education 
distinct from practice, 39. 

Repetition, 149-151. 

Report of the Education Com- 
mittee of the London County 
Council': Dr. Kcrr, 280, 342. 

Report of the U.S.A. Commissioner 
of Education, Vol. I., 60. 

Republic : Plato, 13, 261, 262. 

Respiration, act of, 180, 181. 

, artificial, 383. 

, conditions influencing, 192, 
193. 

, control of, 191-193. 

, influence of exercise on, 192- 
194. 

, mechanism of, 180, 181. 

Respiratory system, 87-90, 179- 
181 188. 



Rest, 204, 205, 236. 

Retina, 328, 329. 

, sensitive spot of, 330. 

Ribs, 180. 

Rickets, 347, 364, 366. 

Ringworm, 273, 274. 

Ritterakademien, 50. 

Robinson : Readings in European 

History, 26-28. 
Roman baths, 24. 
education, dancing, 25. 

horsemanship, 24. 

running, 23. 
spear throwing, 24. 
swimming, 23. 
wrestling, 23. 
Roman Education : Wilkins, 24, 

25. 

Roman life, decay of, 25, 26. 
-, Greek influence on, 24. 
-, increase of luxury in, 24, 
25. 
Rome, physical education at, 

23-26. 

Rousseau : Emile, 53, 54. 
Royce : Outlines of Psychology, 

160. 

Rugby, sports at, 65, 66. 
Running, 146, 148, 153, 154, 162, 
164, 166, 173, 234, 236, 238, 
240, 247-249. 

, attitude in, 239, 248, 249. 
Russell : Life of Dr. Pusey, 65. 
Rymer : Foedera, 29. 



fiALZMANN, 54. 

Saxony, physical education 

in, 62. 

Scarlet fever, 364, 369-375. 
School doctor, 274, 349, 351, 352, 

359, 368. 

School Hygiene : Jones, 368. 
School Hygiene : Lyster, 274, 275, 

366, 379. 

School nurses, 274, 275. 
pursuits, carving, 94. 

, contests, 94. 



INDEX. 



399 



School pursuits, games, 94. 
-, handicraft, 94. 

, modelling, 94. 

, their bearing on physical 
education, 93, 94. 
session, length of, 216, 217. 

- tone, 263-265, 348. 

- yard, 312. 

Schools of Hellas : Freeman, 14, 

15, 21. 
Scipio on the decline of Roman 

education, 25. 
Sclerotic coat, 328, 330. 
Scrofula, 347. 
Sebum, 254, 255. 
Sedentary liCe, 219, 220, 224. 
-, remedial exercises for, 323. 

occupations, 210, 213. 

-, mental evils attending, 

310, 311. 
, physical evils attending, 

310. 

Semi-circular canals, 136. 
Sensations of hearing, 80. 

of movement, 80. 

of sight, 80. 

of taste, 80. 

of touch, 90. 

, organic, 195, 196. 

relation to knowledge, 79, 80. 
Sense organs, 79-81. 

Shaw : Air Currents, 287, 288, 

291-295. 

Sheringham valve, 298, 299. 
Shrewsbury School, sports at, 

40, 41. 

Singing, 154. 
Sitting, attitude in, 153, 164, 

239, 315. 
, evils attending excess of, 

310, 311. 

Skill, development of, 146-170. 
, of complex forms of, 154, 

157. 
, early training in, 148, 151- 

154, 163, 164. 
, intensive practice in, 151, 

152, 154, 165, 



Skill, motor element in, 160-166. 
, perceptual element in, 157- 

160. 

, place of habit in, 155-157. 
, of intelligence in, 155-157. 
, preparatory practice for, 153, 

154, 166, 173. 
Skin, 175, 177. 
, action of, 186. 
, adaptation of activity of, 

191. 

, diseases of, 273-275. 
, excretions from, 254, 255. 
, loss of heat from, 191, 257, 

277. 

, structure of, 185, 186. 
Sleep, circulation during, 206, 

214, 215. 
, conditions affecting, 206-208, 

214-217. 

, influence of fatigue on, 206. 
, length of, 215, 216. 
, nature of, 206. 
, necessity of, 207. 
, respiration during, 214, 215. 
Small-pox, 375. 
Social England, 47, 48. 
Solon, 11. 
Somers Tracts, 48. 
Sparta, barrack life at, 11. 
, education of girls at, 12. 
, education of youths at, 10- 

12. 
, place of music in education, 

10. 
, state control of education, 

10. 
, training in fortitude at, 10- 

12. 

Speaking, 153. 
Specialist teachers, 170-173. 
Speech, 355-357. 
, internal, 356. 
Spencer and physical training of 

girls, 68. 

Spies*, development of gym- 
nastics in Hesse, 62, 63. 
, gymnastics for girls, 62, 



400 



INDEX. 



Spinal cord, afferent neurones 

of, 131. 
, paths to cerebellum, 

133, 134, 136. 

, to cerebrum, 133. 

, - from cerebellum, 

133, 135, 136. 

, efferent neurones of, 130, 

131. 

, paths from cerebrum, 

132, 135. 

, in, 132, 133. 

, ganglia of, 129-132. 

, nerve centres in, 130, 132, 

140. 

-, organisation of neurones 
in, 130. 

, sensory stimuli to, 131, 132. 

, structure of, 129-134. 

, white and grey matter of, 
129, 130. 

curvature, 213, 314, 316, 317. 
Staff, organisation of, 171-173. 
Standing, attitude in, 153, 164, 

239, 317, 318, 322, 323. 

in school lessons, 313, 322. 
Starch, 101. 

State Intervention in English 

Education : Montmorency, 68, 

69. 
Stature, a measure of growth, 

226. 
, conditions affecting, 226, 227, 

229, 232. 

, curves of, 228, 230, 231. 
, measurement of, 232, 233. 
, variations in, 226-229. 
Staunton : The Great Schools of 

England, 41, 65, 66. 
St. Vitus' dance, see Chorea. 
Sturm, 46. 

Sweat, see Perspiration. 
Sweden, physical education in, 

63, 64. 

Swedish drill, 64, 243, 245. 
Swimming, 269, 270, 351. 
Sympathetic system, 187, 188, 

195, 



mE MPERATURE , its influence 
.J_ on fatigue, 277-280. 
, measurement of, 282-285. 
Text-book of Psijcliology : James, 

357, 359. 
The Great Schools of England : 

Staunton, 41, 65, 66. 
The Growth of the Brain : Don- 
aldson, 207, 208, 227, 228, 232, 
Thermometers, use of, 282-285, 

306. 
Thoughts Concerning Education : 

Locke, 51, 52. 
Thring, 65, 66. 

Thucydides : History, 6, 7, 16. 
Time tables, 213, 214. 
Tissues, energy of the, 87. 
, metabolism of the, 87. 
Tot in' s tube, 298, 299. 
Tone of school, 348. 
Tourniquet, 379. 
Towels, use of, 265. 
Trachea, 179. 
Tractate on Education : Milton, 

50. 

Trotzendorf, 46. 

Tuberculosis, see Consumption. 
Turning societies, founded by 

Jahn, 61. 

, political nature of, 61. 

, reappearance of, 61. 

, suppression of, 61. 
Turning system in Germany, 

61. 
Typhoid fever, 369. 



UPPINGH AM, physical train- 
ing at, 66. 
Urea, see Waste products. 



"\TACUUM SYSTEM, 299-301. 

V Veins, 177, 178. 
, bleeding of, 378-9. 
Ventilation, action of windows 

in, 291, 292, 296-298. 
, appliances for, 295-304. 



INDEX. 



401 



Ventilation, convection currents 

iix, 291, 292. 

, draughts, 290-292, 295. 
, inlets and outlets, 289, 290, 

^95-298. 

, instruction in, 305, 306. 
- , interfering agents in, 287, 

291, 292. 

, law of flow, 289 ; 290. 
, mechanical systems of, 298- 

304. 
, moistening of incoming air, 

303, 304. 

, motive force of, 298, 299. 
of bedrooms, 215. 
, principles of, 285-295. 
, problem of, 286-288. 
, purification of air, 302. 
, sealed windows in, 301. 
, teachers' duty in, 281-5, 304-, 

305. 
, temperature of incoming air, 

289, 292, 293, 302. 
, unit of, 288, 289. 
, unit of air space, 289. 
- -, use of thermometers in, 282- 

285, 306. 

, velocity of flow, 289. 
, warming of incoming air, 302. 
Verminous children, 274, 275. 
Viscera, nervous supply of, 188. 
Vittorino da Feltre, 37. 
Voice training, 153, 171, 238. 

TTTALKING, 146, 148, 153, 
VV 164, 166, 173, 234, 238, 

240, 248, 249. 

, attitude in, 239, 248, 249. 
Washing, 259, 260. 
- basins, 265, 266. 

, Doulton's, 265, 266. 
Waste products, 87-89, 96, 99, 

102, 104, 105, 108, 176-178, 

184, 185, 211, 212. 

, effect on consciousness, 

200. 
, effect on nervous tissue, 

199, 200. 

PHY. ED. 



Waste products, toxic effect of, 

198, 199, 202. 
Weight, a measure of growth, 

226. 
, conditions affecting, 226, 227, 

229-232. 

, curves of, 228, 230, 231. 
, measurement of, 232, 233. 
, variations in, 226-229. 
Welton : Principles of Teaching, 

72, 86, 164, 167, 168, 250, 310, 

313, 342. 
White matter of nervous tissue, 

115, 129, 138. 

Whooping cough, 372, 375. 
Wilkins : Roman Education, 24, 

25. 

Winchester school, sports at, 40. 
Windows, use of, 296-298, 301. 
Wood carving, 164, 165. 
Word blindness, 358. 
deafness, 358. 
Wounds, 377. 
Wrestling, 146, 148, 164, 166, 173, 

234, 235, 240, 245, 247. 
Writing, 151, 153, 163, 164. 
, attitude in, 239, 315-317, 320, 

321. 

, control of pen, 319, 320. 
, eye defects due to, 340. 
, free arm, 313, 343. 
, instruction in, 320. 
, practice in, 320. 
, preparatory exercises in, 320. 
, size of, 342, 343. 
, sloping style of, 320. 
, training in correct position, 

319, 320. 

, upright style of, 320, 321. 
Wundt : Principles of Physio- 
logical Psychology, 113, 114, 

127. 

VENOPHON: Cyropacdeia,3,4. 
Oeconomicus. 22, 23. 

ZERO-POTENTIAL system, 
301, 302. 

26 



PRINTED AT THK Bt'RLINGTON PRESS, CAMBRIDGE. 



SPECIAL CATALOGUE 



OF 



EDUCATIONAL 
BOOKS 




PUBLISHED AT THE 



UNIVERSITY TUTORIAL PRESS LD., 

W. B. CLIVE, 157 DRURY LANE, W.C. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

EDUCATION 3 

MATHEMATICS ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4-6 

SCIENCE 6-10 

ART 11 

ENGLISH ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 11 

PHILOSOPHY 12 

HISTORY 13 

GEOGRAPHY ... 13 

FRENCH 14 

LATIN 15 

EDITIONS or LATIN CLASSICS 16 



tmcatton. 

PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF TEACHING. 

By J. WELTON, M.A., Professor of Education in the University of 
Leeds. Present price, 4s. 6d. 

Professor Welton has treated the problems of education with 
philosophic breadth and simplicity of style. 

The treatment is theoretical in the sense of setting forth a con- 
sistent and co-ordinated body of doctrine. But that the principles 
and methods here set forth are practical has been proved by the 
successful working of every one of them in school. 

CONTENTS .-General Function of Teaching Material of 
Instruction Form of Instruction The Teaching of English: 
Preparatory The Teaching of English: Reading The Teaching 
of English : Literature The Teaching of English : Composition and 
Grammar The Teaching of English: Summary The Teaching of 
Music The Teaching of History The Teaching of Geography 
The Teaching of Natural History The Teaching of Mathematics 
The Teaching of Form The Teaching of Needlework. 

"A well-written and full presentation of the best educational methods of the 
time. Not only to college student but to skilled and experienced practitioner we 
commend this suggestive and very helpful volume." Schoolmaster. 

"A valuable and thoxightful book." The Speaker. 

PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PHYSICAL 
EDUCATION AND HYGIENE. 

By W. P. WELPTOX, B.Sc., Master of Method in the University 
of Leeds. 4s. 6d. 

CONTENTS: History of Physical Education : Physical Educa- 
tion in Relation to Mind and Body The Physical Basis of Life The 
Nervous System The Education of the Nervous System The Organic 
Life of the Body Fatigue Exercise and Growth of the Body Clean- 
liness Fresh Air Bodily Attitudes The Care of the Eye Study 
of the Physical and Mental Condition of Children Infectious 
Diseases A ccidents. 

VOICE TRAINING IN SPEECH AND SONG. 

By H. H. HULBERT, M.A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Lecturer in Voice 
Production and Examiner in Physical Education to the London 
County Council. Is. 6d. 

An account of- the structure and use of the vocal organs and the 
means of securing distinct articulation. 

"Dr. Hulbert speaks with authority on this subject of vital importance to 
teachers. It will pay any teacher to -get this book and read it carefully." 
Schoolmaster. 



flftatbematics* 



THE TUTOEIAL AEITHMETIC. 

By W. P. WORKMAN, M.A., B.Sc., Headmaster of Kings wood 
School, Bath. Third Edition. (With or without Answers.) 
4s. 6d. KEY, 5s. 6d. net. 

This book provides a scientific account of the Theory of 
Arithmetic starting from the earliest stages. For example, 
full explanations are given of the four rules, the various 
processes in vulgar fractions and decimals, the factor laws, etc. 

The book is well provided with collections of exercises designed 
to develop in the pupil the necessary arithmetical skill, and at the 
same time to command his intelligent interest. 

A special chapter has been devoted to the theory and practice of 
Approximations and Contracted Methods, and another to the use 
of four-figure Logarithms and Antilogarithms. 

The sections on Commercial Arithmetic have been very carefully 
written, and great pains have been taken to make clear the actual 
transactions as they occur in commercial practice. 

The last section in the book contains a collection of problems on 
Higher Arithmetic which is probably unique. The author suggests 
that this section will afford a pleasant playground for those who 
have hitherto thought that they had little more to learn in the 
subject. 

"Destined to supersede all other secondary treatises on the subject." West- 
minster Gazette. 

11 Takes first place among our text-books in Arithmetic." Schoolmaster. 



THE SCHOOL AEITHMETIC. 

By W. P. WORKMAN, M.A., B.Sc. Second Edition. (With or 
without Answers.) In one volume, 3s. 6d. Part I., 2s. 
Part II., 2s. KEY, 5s. 6d. net. 

The School Arithmetic is an edition of The Tutorial Arithmetic in 
which those portions dealing with the Higher Theory of Arith- 
metic have been omitted, together with all problems of excessive 
difficulty. The space occupied by these portions has been devoted 
to other material more suitable for ordinary school purposes, viz. a 
large selection of miscellaneous examples arranged in graduated 
Examination Papers, a fresh set of Examples in Approximations, a 
further collection of miscellaneous problems, -and additional 
chapters on Logarithms and Graphs. 

" The best Arithmetic for Schools on the market." Mathematical Gazette. 
" A thorough course in Arithmetic," School World. 

4 



continued. 



OLIVE'S NEW SHILLING AEITHMETIC. 

Edited by WM. BBIGGS, LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., F.R.A.S. Is. With 
Answers, Is. 3d. Answers (separately), 6d. 

A carefully graded course of 4000 examples for the lower and 
middle forms of Secondarj 7 Schools. 

" These exercises are well chosen and progressive.'' Schoolmaster. 



EUCLID. 

With a Preliminary Course of Drawing and Problems in Practical 
Geometry. By RUPERT DEAKIN, M. A., late Headmaster of King 
Edward's Grammar School, Stourbridge. Books L, II., Is. 
Books I. -IV., 2s. 6d. Books V., VI., and XI., Is. 6d. 

A good modern edition of Euclid, accompanied by a carefully 
graduated course of riders, with systematic notes on the propo- 
sitions, coordinating them and indicating their mutual relations. 

" An altogether admirable edition." School Guardian. 



GEOMETRY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. 

By W. P. WORKMAN, M. A., B.Sc., Headmaster of Kingswood School, 
Bath, and A. G. CRACKNELL, M.A., B.Sc. 
PART!. (Sections I. -III. ) 2s. 6d. 
PART II. (Sections IV, V.) 2s. 

This work is also published in Sections as follows : 
SECTION I. Introductory Course. 9d. 
SECTION II. Rectilinear Figures. (Euclid,!.) Is. 6d. 
SECTION III. The Circle. (Euclid, III. 1-34, IV. 1-9.) Is. 
SECTION IV. Rectangle- Theorems and Polygons. (Euclid, 

II., III. 35-37, and IV. 10-16.) Is. 

SECTION V. Similar Figures. (Euclid, V., VI.) Is. 6d. 
SECTION VI. Solid Geometry. (Euclid, XL) In the press. 

This text-book of Geometry is written entirely on modern lines. 
Theoretical and Practical work are closely coordinated throughout. 
Special attention has been devoted to logical accuracy. Great care 
has been taken to assist the teacher in all possible ways in the 
organisation of the work of the class. 

PART I. " One of the best books on modern lines." Oxford Magazine. 

PART II. "The book is sound and sensible throughout, and deserves to hold its 
own easily in the severe competition which text-books on elementary geometry have 
to face at present." Nature. 

5 



GRAPHS : THE GRAPHICAL REPRESENTATION 
OF ALGEBRAIC FUNCTIONS. 

By C. H. FRENCH, M.A., and G. OSBORN, M.A., Mathematical 
Masters of the Leys School, Cambridge. Second Edition, Re- 
written and Enlarged. Is. 6d. KEY, 3s. net. 

Containing numerous typical worked examples, with full ex- 
planations, and squared paper diagrams inserted in the text. 
" An admirable exposition." Practical Teaeher. 

MATRICULATION GRAPHS. 

By C. H. FRENCH, M.A., and G. OSBORN, M.A., Mathematical 
Masters of the Leys School, Cambridge. Is. KEY, Is. 6d. net. 

"A pi-actical manual of Graphs, which contains instruction of the highest value 
imparted with admirable precision." Schoolmaster, 

CLIYE'S MATHEMATICAL TABLES. 

Containing Logarithms, Antilogarithms, Natural and Logarithmic 
Trigonometrical Functions, and Circular Measure. With full 
explanations. By A. G. CRACKNELL, M.A., B.Sc. Is. 6d. 

" Clearly printed and carefully arranged with a view to ensuring ease and accuracy 
in the use of them." Educational Times. 

" Sufficiently complete for all practical purposes and well designed to combine 
speed and accuracy in calculation." School Guardian. 



Science* 

THE NEW MATRICULATION CHEMISTRY.* 

By G. H. BAILEY, D.Sc., Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemistry at the 
Victoria University of Manchester. Edited by WM. BRIGGS, 
LL.D., M.A., B.Sc., F.C.S. Fourth Edition. 5s. 6d. 

In this book considerable emphasis is laid upon experimental 
methods of study. It contains an Introductory Course, based 
upon a series of simple experiments, designed to train the 
student in scientific method and to demonstrate to him the 
broad outlines and the leading principles of Chemical Theory. 

" An excellent introductory course which is entirely built upon a series of simple 
experiments designed to train the student in scientific method." School Government 
Chronicle. 



* Sets of apparatus and reagents are supplied specially designed for use with this 
book Set A, 13s. 6d. ; Set B, 2. 



Science continued. 

THE TUTOEIAL PHYSICS, 

1. TEXT-BOOK OF SOUND. By E. CATCHPOOL, B.Sc. Fourth 

Edition. 3s. 6d. 

A full account of the theory of Sound treated from the physical, 
rather than the mathematical, standpoint. 

" A full, philosophical, and decidedly original treatment." Educational Times. 

2. HIGHER TEXT-BOOK OF HEAT. By R. W. STEWART, D.Sc. 

Second Edition. 6s. 6d. 

Thermo-dynamics, Radiation, and Critical State are treated at 
length, and special chapters have been devoted to Graphic Methods, 
Thermometry and Pyrometry, and the Liquefaction of Gases. 

" Clear, concise, well arranged and well illustrated." Journal of Education. 

3. TEXT-BOOK OF LIGHT, By R. W. STEWART, D.Sc. Fourth 

Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 4s. 6d. 

A very full treatment of the elements of Geometrical Optics. 

" The clear and practical directions for performing experiments greatly enhance 
the vahie of this work. The get up of the work is highly satisfactory." Nature. 

4. HIGHER TEXT-BOOK OF MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY. 

ByR. W. STEWART, D.Sc. Second Edition. 6s. 6d. 

An adequate though elementary account of the Electron Theory 
of Matter and Radio- Activity has been inserted. 

" The text is exceedingly lucid and painstaking." Nature. 

5. PROPERTIES OF MATTER. By C. J. L. WAGSTAFF, M.A., 

Assistant Master at Oundle School. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. 

Contains a treatment of those branches of Physics which are not 
usually included in books on Light, Sound, Heat, or Electricity. 

" Very interesting sections are those on moments of inertia from an elementary 
point of view, Boy's modification of Cavendish's experiment, surface tension, and 
capillarity." School. 

6. PRACTICAL PHYSICS. By W. R. BOWER, A.R.C.S., Head of 

the Chemistry and Physics Department at Huddersfield Tech- 
nical School, and J. SATTERLY, B.Sc. 4s. 6d. 

A full course of elementary experiments in all branches of physics. 

" Great pains have evidently been taken to secure efficiency, and the result is a 
text-book which merits great praise." Nature. 



SCICUCC continued. 

THE NEW MATRICULATION HEAT. 
THE NEW MATRICULATION LIGHT. 
THE NEW MATRICULATION SOUND. 
By R. W. STEWART, D.Sc. In three vols. 2s. 6d. each. 

This text-book provides a complete school course of coordinated 
theoretical and practical work in Elementary Heat, Light, and 
Sound, including all portions of the subject required for London 
University Matriculation and similar examinations. 

Wherever possible the theory is developed from suitable experi- 
ments which require only simple apparatus, and can be performed 
by the students themselves. The diagrams, which are clear, instruc- 
tive, and easily reproduced, form a distinctive feature of the work. 

In the volume on Heat special care has been taken to eluci- 
date the fundamental principles experimentally. + 

In the volume on Light considerable attention has been devoted 
to the lucid explanation of optical formulae and their use, while a 
fuller treatment is given to Dispersion, Colour, Vision and Aids to 
Vision than is met with in most text-books on the subject. 

The treatment of Sound is based on a simple and practical account 
of the general theory of vibrations.j 

HEAT : "This volume is full of experimental details and practical hints, and is 
well illustrated. It is an admirable text-book." Education. 

LIGHT : " It is in every way suitable for its purpose." Schoolmaster. 

SOUND : " The treatment is lucid and concise, and thoroughly in accordance with 
the most recent methods of teaching elementary physics." Nature. 

TECHNICAL ELECTRICITY. 

ByH. T. DAVIDGE, B.Sc., M.I.E.E., Professor of Engineering at 
the Ordnance College, Woolwich, and R. W. HUTCHINSON, 
B.Sc., A.M.I.E.E., F.R.G.S., Head of the Department of 
Physics, Municipal Technical Schools, Hull. 4s. 6d. 

A thorough treatment of the elements of practical electrical 
engineering in which great care has been taken in dealing with 
the various units and systems of units, which are often a source of 
difficulty to beginners. Careful treatment has also been given to 
electrical and magnetic calculations : the construction and use of 
modern laboratory and commercial instruments, the calibration of 
ammeters and voltmeters, lamp-testing and the like. 

"The book has been prepared in accordance with the most modern ideas as 
regards technical education." Electrical Engineer. 

" A most desirable combination of sound instruction in scientific principles and 
engineering practice, which will meet the requirements of a large class of students." 
Educational News. 

8 



continued. 
THE SCHOOL MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY. 

By R. H. JUDE, M.A., D.Sc., Head of the Mathematical and 
Physical Department, Rutherford College, Newcastle-on-Tyne. 
3s. 6d. 

This book has not been written to the syllabus of any examina- 
tion, its aim being rather to give the student a clear grasp of 
fundamental facts and principles. It will be found, however, to 
contain all of the subject that is required for examinations of the 
London University Matriculation Standard and much of the work 
of Technical and Secondary Schools, and of Junior Classes in 
University Colleges. 

In Electrostatics the ideas of potential and potential-gradient 
are made the basis of the whole theory. A special chapter has 
been devoted to the Mathematical Aspects of Electrostatics, while 
in Magnetism and Electrodynamics stress has been laid on subjects 
of importance to the young electrical engineer, such as Magnetic 
Flux and Permeability, Potential Drop, Work and Horse-power in 
a Circuit, Storage Cells, and Electromagnetic Induction. 

" A useful text-book, that seems much sounder as regards fundamental concep- 
tions than most elementary works on electricity." Oxford Magazine. 
"A thoroughly sound and useful manual." Schoolmaster. 



JUNIOE EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE. 

By W. M. HOOTON, M. A . , M. Sc. , Chemistry Master at Repton School. 
2s. 6d. 

The object of this book is to provide a two y ears' course for 
beginners in Physics and Chemistry. 

Practical and Theoretical work have been made directly depen- 
dent on one another, and the work is well supplied with exercises 
both in practical and written work. 

The portion dealing with Physics includes practical and theoretical 
work on Simple Measurements of Length, Area, and Volume ; 
Hydrostatics ; Mechanics ; and Heat. 

The portion dealing with Chemistry includes simple qualitative 
and quantitative experiments, together with numerous questions and 
exercises on the work. 

" The explanations are clear and concise." School World. 

"An excellent and workable two years' course in Experimental Physics and 
Chemistry." Educational News. 

9 



Science continued. 

TEXT-BOOK OF BOTANY. 

By J. M. Lowsox, M.A., B.Sc. Fourth Edition. 6s. 6d. 

In the Fourth Edition of this well-known book the text has been 
carefully revised and brought up to date. The sections dealing 
with the Stelar theory have been re-written, numerous experiments 
on Physiology have been introduced, and a special chapter on 
Ecology and Plant Distribution has been added. 

" It represents the nearest approach to the ideal botanical text-book that has yet 
been produced." Pharmaceutical Journal. 

PLANT BIOLOGY.* 

ByF. CAVERS, D.Sc., F.L.S., Professor of Biology at the Hartley 
University College, Southampton. 3s. 6d. 

This is a text-book of Elementary Botany arranged for modern 
methods of teaching. Chief emphasis is laid upon a thorough course 
of practical work which will at once train the student's powers of 
observation and at the same time provide a sound basis for theoretical 
knowledge. 

" It strikes us as the very best of the multitudinous works of this class that have 
passed through our hands. Too much praise cannot be given to the illustrations, 
which are singularly clear and useful." Guardian. 

LIFE HISTOBIES OF COMMON PLANTS. 

By F. CAVERS, D.Sc., Professor of Biology at the Hartley Uni- 
versity College, Soiithampton. 3s. 

An Introduction to the study of Plant Life by continuous outdoor 
and indoor observation and experiment. 

" This excellent manual supplies a long felt want to the Nature Study teacher. 
The chapter on the most important subject of Plant Ecology is quite the best 
exposition of the subject we have seen, and for this alone the book is worth 
getting." Schoolmaster. 

SCHOOL HYGIENE. 

By R. A. LYSTER, M.D., B.Sc., D.P.H., County Medical Officer 
of Health and Chief Medical Officer to the Education Com- 
mittee of the Hampshire County Council. Second Edition. 
3s. 6d. 
A thorough course of practical School Hygiene which does not 

assume any previous knowledge of the subject. In the Second 

Edition a special chapter is devoted to the Medical Inspection of 

School Children. 
"A sound and practical text-book that gives an adequate account of what a 

teacher ought to know about School Hygiene." School MasUr. 

* A set of 41 microscopic slides specially designed by Professor Cavers for use 
with this book is supplied at 1 os. 

10 



Hrt. 

PEESPECTIVE DRAWING, THE THEOEY AND 
PRACTICE OF. 

By S. POLAR, Art Master, Lecturer in Art under the London 
County Council, etc. os. 

This book is a scientific treatise on the principles and practice of 
Perspective Drawing, accompanied by a carefully graduated course 
of Problems and Exercises. 

Where possible the explanations of the principles of Perspective 
have been based on simple experiments, suitable either for the 
lecture-room or for private work. 

"Mr. Polak's work seems to us one of the best of the modern works that have 
been issued." Architectural Ririvic. 

" It is at once the ablest and most exhaustive work on the subject with which we 
are acquainted." Educational JV- ''?<. 



THE MATRICULATION ENGLISH COURSE. 

By W. H. Low, M.A., and JOHN BRIGGS, M.A., F.Z.S. Second 
Edition. 3s. 6d. 

Covering the requirements of London University Matriculation 
and similar examinations in English, the " salient facts " in History 
and Geography excepted, 

CONTENTS : Historical Sketch Sounds and Symbols Outlines 
of Accidence and Syntax Common Errors Analysis Parsing 
The Word, the Sentence, the Paragraph Punctuation Rules for 
Composition Simple Narrative Compound Narrative Descriptive 
Composition The Abstract Theme The Essay Paraphrasing 
Precis- Writing Letter- Writing and Proof -Reading Index. 

"The matter is clearly arranged, concisely and intelligently put, and marked by 
accurate scholarship and common sense." Guardian. 

"The chapters on precis-writing and indexing are excellent." Westminster 
Review. 

THE TUTORIAL HISTORY OF ENGLISH 
LITERATURE. 

By A. J. WYATT, M.A. With Illustrative Extracts. Second 
Edition. 2s. 6d. 

" The book is undoubtedly the best school history of literature that has yet come 
under our notice." Guardian. 

"The scheme of the book is clear, proportional, and scientific." Academy. 

11 



pbilosopb?. 

A MANUAL OF LOGIC. 

By J. WELTON, M.A., Professor of Education in the University of 
Leeds. 2 vols. Vol. I. Sec. Ed. 8s. 6d. Vol. II. 6s. 6d. 

Vol. I. contains the whole of Deductive Logic, except Fallacies, 
which are treated, with Inductive Fallacies, in Vol. II. 

"A clear and compendious summary of the views of various thinkers on im- 
portant and doubtful points." Journal of Education. 

A MANUAL OF PSYCHOLOGY. 

By G. F. STOUT, M.A., LL.D., Fellow of the British Academy, 
Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of St. 
Andrews, late Examiner in Mental and Moral Science in the 
University of London. Second Edition. 8s. 6d. 

Psychology is dealt with in this manual from a genetic point of 
view, the order followed being that of the successive stages of 
mental development. The phases through which the ideal con- 
struction of self and the world has passed are illustrated by reference 
to the mental condition of the lower races of mankind. 

" The student's task will be much lightened by the lucidity of the style and the 
numerous illustrative facts, which together make the book highly interesting." 
Literary World. 



THE GROUNDWORK OF PSYCHOLOGY. 

By G. F. STOUT, M.A., LL.D. 4s. 6d. 

This book is not an abridgement of "A Manual of Psychology." 
Even where the matter is the same the mode of presentation is 
different. 

" All students of philosophy, both beginners and those who would describe them- 
selves as 'advanced,' will do well to 'read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest' this 
book." Oxford Magazine. 

A MANUAL OF ETHICS. 

By J. S. MACKENZIE, Litt.D., M.A., Professor of Logic and 
Philosophy in the University College of South Wales and 
Monmouthshire, formerly Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, 
Examiner in the Universities of Cambridge and Aberdeen. 
Fourth Edition, Enlarged. 6s. 6d. 

" In writing this book Mr. Mackenzie has produced an earnest and striking con- 
tribution to the ethical literature of the time." Mind. 

12 



Ibiator?. 

GEOUNDWOEK OF ENGLISH HISTOEY. 

By M. E. CARTER, Honour School of Modern History, Oxford. 
With Coloured Maps. 2s. 

Supplies the "salient facts" required by the London Matricula- 
tion English syllabus. 

" It presents the salient facts of English History in a readable but definite form, 
unencumbered with irrelevant detail." Schoolmaster. 

"The essential facts are presented in a clear, well-ordered way that cannot .but 
prove distinctly helpful to the student." Teacher's Times. 

"Any student in search of the best bird's-eye view of' English History will turn 
to the Tutorial Series in the natural order of search and will 'here find his reward." 
School Guardian. 

TUTOEIAL HISTOEY OF ENGLAND. (To 1901.) 
By C. S. FEARENSIDE, M.A. 4s. 6d. 

This book is mainly intended for use in the upper'forms of schools. 
The term " English^ History " is therefore somewhat liberally inter- 
preted, and considerable attention has been paid to international 
affairs, and in the later chapters to Colonial developments. 

" An excellent text-book for the upper forms of a school." Journal of Education. 

"Very able, well written, and practical." Educational Times. 

MATEICULATION MODEEN HISTOEY. 

Being the History of England 1485-1901, with some reference 
to the Contemporary History of Europe and Colonial Develop- 
ments. By C. S. FEARENSIDE, M.A. 3s. 6d. 

"An excellent manual. The international history, specially in the eighteenth 
century, where most text-books fail, is very carefully treated." -School World. 

" A work that gives evidence of scholarship and clever adaptability to a special 
purpose. " Guardian. 



TEXT-BOOK OF GEOGEAPHY. 
ByG. C. FRY, M.Sc. 4s. 6d. 

This book is intended for use in the upper forms of schools and by 
candidates for the London University Matriculation, the Teacher's 
Certificate and Preliminary Certificate, and other examinations of 
similar standard. It deals with both General and Regional Geography. 
Under the former heading are treated the movement, form, and sur- 
face of the earth, the circulation of air and water, and map-reading. 
In Regional Geography the natural features are first dealt with and 
then the political facts that are the outcome of these features. 

13 



3frencb Grammar ant> Composition, 

JUNIOE FEENCH COUESE. 

By E. WEEKLEY, M.A., Professor of French at University College, 
Nottingham, and Examiner in French in the University 
of London. Second Edition. 2s. 6d. KEY, 2s. 6d. net. 

Containing Exercises and continuous passages for translation into 
French, together with notes thereon. 

"The execution is distinctly an advance on similar courses." Journal of 
Education. 

THE MATEICULATION FEENCH COUESE. 

By E. WEEKLEY, M.A. Third Edition. 3s. 6d. KEY, 2s. 6d. net. 

This volume, which covers in broad outline the whole ground of 
elementary French Grammar, is intended primarily for the use 
of students preparing for the London University Matriculation. 

The "Tolerations" authorised by the latest decree of the 
French Minister of Public Instruction are contained in the text. 

"A workmanlike and instructive exposition." Scotsman. 

FEENCH PEOSE COMPOSITION. 

By ERNEST WEEKLEY, M.A. Third Edition, Enlarged. With 
Notes and Vocabulary. 3s. 6d. KEY, 2s. 6d. net. 

Containing a resume of the most important rules of Syntax, 
accompanied by illustrative exercises ; practical hints on the essen- 
tial differences between English and French prose style ; graduated 
continuous extracts for translation ; and hints on Translation. 

" A weD thought out work. The arrangement is capital, and the passages set for 
translation very judiciously selected." Secondary Education. 

JUNIOE FEENCH EEADEE. 

Containing 74 very easy Selections in Prose and Verse, with Notes 
and a Vocabulary. By E. WEEKLEY, M.A. Is. 6d. 

"A very \isef ul first reader with good vocabulary and sensible notes." 
Schoolmaster. 

THE MATEICULATION FEENCH EEADEE. 

Containing Prose, Verse, Notes, and Vocabulary. By J. A. 
PEKRET, Examiner in French to the University of London. 
2s. 6d. KEY, 2s. 6d. net. 

"The Notes are succinct and informative. This book is the outcome of scholar- 
ship combined with ripe experience in tuition." Westminster Review. 

14 



Xatin, 

JUNIOE LATIN COUESE. 

By B. J. HAYES, M.A. Second Edition. 2s. 6d. KEY, 2s. 6d. net. 

" The rules are clear, the matter is well graduated, and the examples and exercises 
are abundant and judiciously constructed." Schoolmaster. 

THE TUTOKIAL LATIN CKRAMMAB. 

By B. J. HAYES, M.A., and W. F. MASOM, M.A.' 3s. 6d. 

"Tested in respect of any of the crucial points, it comes well out of the 
ordeal. " Schoolmaster. 

LATIN COMPOSITION. 

With copious Exercises (including easy continuous Passages), and 
Vocabulary to each Exercise. By A. H. ALLCROFT, M.A., and 
J. H. HAYDON, M.A. Sixth Edition. 2s. 6d. KEY. By A. H. 
ALLCKOFT, M.A., and B. J. HAYES, M.A. 2s. 6d. net. 

" This is one of the best mamials on the above subject that we have met with for 
some time." Schoolmaster. 

JUNIOE LATIN EEADEE, 

By E. J. G. FORSE, M.A. Is. 6d. 

" It is one of the best books of translation that we have seen." School Guardian. 

MATEICULATION LATIN CONSTEUINa BOOK. 

By A. F. WATT, M.A., and B. J. HAYES, M.A. 2s. KEY, 
2s. 6d. net. 

CONTENTS : Parsing Construe of Simple Sentences, of Complex 
Sentences, of Periods Miscellaneous Extracts Passages set at 
London Matriculation for Translation at Sight Vocabulary. 

" The work is carefully and correctly done." Guardian. 

MATEICULATION SELECTIONS FEOM LATIN 
AUTHOES. 

With Introduction, Notes, and Vocabulary. Edited by A. F. 
WATT, M.A., and B. J. HAYES, M.A. 2s. 6d. KEY, 2s. 6d. net. 

CONTENTS : Introduction (History, Literature, and Anti- 
quities] Extracts (graduated] long enough to be interesting Notes 
Full Vocabulary Index of Proper Names. 

" It is quite an interesting selection, and well done." School World. 

15 



of 3latin Classics, 

The Text is in all cases accompanied by Introduction and Notes ; 

books marked (*) contain also an alphabetical Lexicon. 

-The Vocabularies, etc., are in order of _ the text and are preceded 

by Test Papers. 



CAESAR 

Civil War, Book 1. 1/6 
Gallic War, Books 1-7. 

(each) 1/6 
Gallic War, Book 1, 

Ch. 1 to 29. 1/6 

The Invasion of Britain. 1/6 
Gallic War, Book 7, Ch. 

1 to 68. 1/6 

CICERO- 
AC! Atticum, Book 4. 3/6 
DeAmicitia. *l/6 
De Finibus, Book 1. 2/6 
De Finibus, Book 2. 3/6 
De Officiis, Book 3. 3/6 
De Senectute. : *l/6 
In Catilinam I., III. (each) 1/6 
InCatilinamL-IV. 2/6 
Philippic II. 2/6 
Pro Archia. 1/6 
Pro Cluentio 3/6 
Pro Lege Manilla. 2/6 
Pro Marcello. 1/6 
Pro Milone. 3/6 
ProPlancio 3/6 

CURTIUS 

Book 9, Ch. 6-end. 1/6 

HORACE 

Epistles (including Ars 

Poetica). 4/6 

Epodes. 1/6 

Odes, Books 1-4 *3/6 
Separately, each Book 

(*3, 4). 1/6 

Satires. 4/6 

JUVENAL, 

Satires, 1, 3, 4. 3/6 

Satires, 8, 10, 13. 2/6 

Satires, 11, 13. 14. 3/6 



LIVY 

Book 1. 2/6 

Books 3, 6, 9. (each) 3/6 

Book 5. 2/6 

Book 21. 2/6 

Book 21, Ch. 1-30. 1/6 

Book 22. 2/6 

NEPOS 

Hannibal, Cato, Atticus. 1/0 

OVID 

Fasti, Books 3, 4. 2/6 

Fasti, Books 5, 6. 3/6 

Heroides, 1, 5, 12. 1/6 
Metamorphoses, Book 1, 
lines 1-150; Book 3, 
lines 1-130; Book 5, 

lines 385-550. (each) 1/6 

Book 11. 1/6 

Book 11, lines 410-748 1/6 

Books 13, 14. (each) 1/6 
Tristia, Books 1, 3. (each) 1/6 

SALLUST 

Catiline. 1/6 

TACITUS 

Agricola. 2/6 

Annals, Book 1. 2/6 

Annals, Book 2. 2/6 

Germania. 2 6 
Histories, Books 1, 3. (each) 3/6 

TERENCE 

Adelphi. 3/6 

VERGTL 

Aeneid, Books 1-8. (each) *l/6 

Book 9. *l/6 

Book 10. *l/6 

Book 11. #1/6 

Book 12. 1/6 

Eclogues. 3/6 

Georgics, Books 1 and 2. 3/6 

Georgics, Books 1 and 4. 3/6 
Georgics, Book 4 (separately) 1 /6 



A detailed catalogue of the above can be abtained on application. 
16 



uoisog; ' 



siqi 



9AOUI9J 
i 50 U OQ 



OJNOH01 JO AIISH3AIMQ 



