
\W> -'y 



t^T* -kj^ •- ' !/_. 






Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924073879508 



THB STANDARD 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
GO OK BOOR 




•lopjright, lWt8. bj Wm. H. Lob. 



















^;?" 


"^ 

























THE STANDARD 

Domestic Science 
Cook Book 



COMPILED AND ARRANGED 
BY 

WILLIAM H. LEE 

AND 

JENNIE A. HANSEY 

(author of the CKNTrRT COOS BOOK) 



A New and Original System of Classifi^ion 

Fourteen Hundred Famous Recipes Adapti^Kfor 
Homes, Hotels, Restaurants, Boarding Hou«Z. 
Picnics and Entertainments. • ' "4, 



Thirty-two Departments, with Descriptive Introductions; Each Recipe Num- 
bered and fully Indexed. Including One Hundred Menus for the Year, 
also Christmas, Easter, Thanksgiving, Holidays, Anniversaries and 
Weddings; Maxims and Quotations for Table and Menu ; Bride's De- 
partment; The Chafing Dish; Fruits, Melons and Nuts. Sick- 
room Recipes, Household Drinks, Candies, Time Required 
for Digestion, Marketing, Seasoning, Flavoring, Carving, 
Kitchen Hints, Time for Cooking, Table Suggestions, 
Weights and Measures, Fireless Cook Stove, 
The Modem Kitchen, Dinner Invitations, Ac- 
ceptances and Regrets, Golden Thoughts 
— ^Things to Know and Reniember^ 
Domestic Economy, Kitchen Don'ts 

French Terms Used in Gx>kery, with EngUsh Equivalents. 

135 Special Drawings, 15 Full-page Plates. 

WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES. 




CHICAGO; 
LAIRD & LEE, Publishers. 



DESIGK COPYRIGHT, 1908, BY WM. H. LEE. 



Wii^- H.LEE 

AJ.L RIGHTS RESERVED. 
^A--^^ LONDON, ^^^ ENGLAND. 












c 







PREGKrBG(DDQDKfi£^\ 



Copj-ri^l, 1,10118, by Wm. n.I.. 




Frontispiece, 

Copyright plate, . 

Dedication, 

School of Domestic Science, 

Salt and Fresh Water Fish. 

Various Cuts of Beef, 

Game {various kinds), 

Salads, 

Fancy Egg Dishes, 

Fancy Cakes, 

Merry Widow Salad, . 

Croquettes, 

The Bride Devoted to Domestic Science, 

Cuts of Beef, Pork and Mutton, . 

Wedding Anniversaries, 

Social Forms — Invitations, Acceptances, Regrets, 



PAGE 
II 



. IV 
V 
. VIII 
. 38 
. 70 
. 112 
. 140 
. 232 

opp. 257 
. 328 

opp. 330 
. 380 

opp. 448 
. 458 

501-504 



Also, etched headings for 32 Departments and 22 special 
Features, and many text illustrations. 



See Domestic Economy, Department 32, page 459. 
viii 



THE CULINARY art (from Latin f«//j«ar?«j ="kitchen"), is herein presented, 
arranged and worded in simple language, with a view to supplying a stand- 
ard domestic science cook-book that will be practical and easily understood. 

The work would not be complete without some reference to the danger 
that is rapidly becoming a national curse, and which, if not checked, will prove 
the crime of the century. Of course, the Pure Food Law is timely, but it cannot 
be effective unless the people themselves insist that all prepared foodstuffs shall 
bear the government stamp, which specifies the composition and degree of purity. 

If we eat to live, then it is important that all food should be selected with 
the greatest of care, and prepared with a view to making every dish as nourish- 
ing, wholesome and appetizing as possible. Mother Earth produces enough of 
everything for all mankind, but Nature never intended that human beings 
should eat decayed or adulterated food. Think of the risk one takes by using 
edibles that have been kept by artificial processes -which do not prevent the 
attacks of poisonous germs or the slow chemical changes of decomposition.! 

The tendency seems to be, with many housekeepers and cooks, to throw 
everything together without regard to health, taste or appearance. Economize, 
if necessary, in everything except food or drink, constantly keeping in mind 
that with the digestion impaired one cannot enjoy the best things of life. If 
not able to buy all the articles that should go with the meal, be sure and see 
that what is bought is fresh and wholesome. Do not prepare hurriedly or 
serve carelessly in order to save time and work. 

A healthy appetite, of course, should be satisfied, but more people die from 
over-eating than from not eating enough. The gourmand and glutton live to eat, 
and in their case it does not matter very much what they put into their stomachs. 

If the preface and the few lines at the head of each department serve to 
guide those who would avoid mistakes and sickness, we shall feel that the time 
and money spent in compiling this collection of recipes have not been wasted. 

THE PUBLISHERS. 




KITCHEN m5 TABLE 
Sm^ilSTIQNS 




The Kitchen. 



System and order can be practised in the home as well as in the 
counting room or in any business establishment. Have a place for everything 
and everything in its place. The kitchen utensils, after being thoroughly 
washed and wiped, should always be put back in the proper place, and the 
pots, kettles and ladles arranged, according to size, on shelves and hooks 
which, in most all modern kitchens, have been" provided for that purpose. 

Cleanliness, order and promptness should be the watchword. To sweeten 
and purify damp or musty kitchen or closets: Put into one-gallon stone jar, 
one-half gallon of unslacked lime, leave uncovered, place in closet or kitchen. 
Another good preventative : Put sufficient amount of pulverized charcoal in 
cheese cloth bag and hang in the closet or kitchen; it serves as a deodorizer. 

Flies have been known to carry- disease ; therefore it is of great impor- 
tance to keep them, as far as possible, from lighting on the dishes or the food. 
Care should be taken to prevent roaches infesting the kitchen. Pulverized 
borax sprinkled on the floor, shelves, tables and sinks at night will drive away ' 
roaches and water-bugs. Sage scattered under paper exterminates ants. 

Nothing should be kept in the kitchen except what pertains to the 
culinary department. Refrigerator, mops, scrubbing-brushes, brooms, wash-rags 
and similar articles should be kept in a separate place outside of the kitchen. 
For further information regarding The Modern Kitchen, see Depl. 32, page 481 . 



The Dining-room 



The art of setting the table correctly is certainly an accomplishment of 
which any housekeeper may be proud. The tablecloth and napkins should be 
immaculate, and the dishes, of course, scrupulously clean. If the table has been 
laid early in the day, or even a short time before the meal is ready, turn the 
plates, cups and glasses upside down to prevent flies and other insects, or dust 
from getting into them. Knives and forks should be thoroughly cleaned and 
polished. Chipped or broken dishes are offensive to a' refined taste, therefore 
should not be allowed on the table. Worn plated knives, forks or spoons also 
tend to mar the pleasure of the meal. Thick, heavy dishes, cups or glasses 
display poor taste, therefore should be avoided, as far as possible. ' 

8 



THE DININCi BOOM 
(iONTINUED 



The napkins and all necessary dishes properly arranged, also a pitcher 
of water, with a little ice if necessary, placed upon the table at the proper 
time, or at the beginning of a meal, shows thoughtfulness and attention to 
detail. Fresh flowers or a well-filled fern dish help to make the table attractive. 

The plates should come to the table hot, especially during cold weather. 
A good meal can easily be spoiled by serving food on cold dishes. 

As far as possible carry all the food to the mouth with the fork. Use 
the knife only when absolutely necessary for cutting, but never to bring food 
to the mouth. When eating grapes or cherries, discreetly take the stones and 
skins from the mouth with the lingers, placing them on the plate or dish. 

If a second portion is desired, the knife and fork should be laid down 
to the right, the ends resting on the edge of butter-dish. Before bringing the 
cup to the lips, the spoon should be removed and laid upon the saucer. When 
through, place knife and fork together on plate, handles pointing same way. 

It is not good taste to carry fruit or other articles of food from the 
table except for a sick person, and then only by permission of the hostess. 

Never stretch the hand or arm across another's plate. If what is wanted 
is not within easy reach, ask the waiter or some one at the table to pass it. 

Nowhere will good breeding show to greater advantage than at the 
table. Refined conversation on general subjects and innocent merriment while 
eating are conducive to health and therefore, should be encouraged, but 
giggling, laughing or talking in a voice raised above that of the others, is 
rude and is considered a mark of discourtesy or ill-breeding. The personal 
appearance of dining-room attendants should be neat, clean and in good taste. 

Teach the children the correct use of the napkin and how to hold 
properly the knife, fork and spoon. A little attention to the young regarding 
correct table manners may save them many embarrassments later in life. 

Man, as a rule, is an impatient creature, especially when returning home 

after a day of work and worry. If the meal is not quite ready, don't make 

excuses but commence at once to set the table, leaving the impression that the 

meal is nearly ready. In the meantime hand him a newspaper or suggest 

some other pleasant pastime. His attention having been diverted, the meal, 

for the time being, will be forgotten until it is ready. This, of course, is a 

little deception, but it will work nine times out of ten, if shrewdly managed, 

and it is decidedly better than "roasting" him or keeping him "in a pickle." 

A husband properly "cooked" is really delicious. 

3 



ACCORDING to chemistry the following four food principles are the most 
important : 1, the NITROGENOUS compounds (albumen, casein, gluten 
and fibrin), also called PROTEID or ALBUMINOUS substances, needed 
for the formation of muscle and other tissues, contained in the most concen- 
trated form in lean meat, fish, milk and eggs, and composed of carbon, 
oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen. 2, the CARBON compounds (carbon, oxygen 
and hydrogen), divided into HYDROCARBONS or fets, which are burned in 
the body, yielding heat and vital force, and the CARBOHYDRATES, fat- 
producers, which include starch, dextrin, : sugar and gum, and contain less 
carbon and the right proportion of hydrogen and oxygen to produce water. 

3, MINERAL elements (ash), supplied especially by vegetables, as lime, salts, 
sulphur and phosphorus, needed for the bones, blood, and nervous system. 

4, WATER. The table gives average percentages contained in various foods: 

sugar 8.84 ; proteids 3.33 
milk 50 ; salts 0.66 
sugar 2.03 ; ash 4.07 
sugar 7.58; proteids 0.23 
sugar 13.78 ; proteids 0.83 



Cow's Milk water 86.17 ; 

Butter water 13.59 ; 

Cheese, Amer. .water 38.60 ; 

Apples wster 85.04 ; 

Grapes water 79.99 ; 



casein 3.02; fat 3.64; 

casein 0.74 ; fat 8439 ; 

casein 25.35 ; fat 30. 25 ; 

pectose 3.88 ; acids 1.04 ; 

pectose 1.43; acids 1.32; 
Beans, navy... water 15.00; carbohydrates 56.8; proteids 24.0; fat 1.6; salts 3.10 

Carrots water 83.00 ; carbohydrates 14.5 ; proteids 1.3 ; fat 0.2 ; salts 1.00 

Tomatoes water 95.50; carbohydrates 2.5; proteids 0.8 ; fat 0.4 ; salts 0.80 

Bananas water 74.00 ; carbohydrates 23.0 ; proteids 1.1 ; fat 0.9 ; salts 1.00 

Chocolate water 10.50; carbohydrates 27.0; proteidi 125; fat 47.0; salts 3.50 

Loaf sugar .... water 5.50; glucose 2.40; organic 0.80 ; sugar 91.0; ash 0.30 

Codfish water 82.60; fat 0.40; proteids 15.80 ; ash 1.20 

Salmon water 64.60 ; fat 12.80 ; proteids 21.20 ; ash 1.40 

Rice water 13 00 ; starch 79 ; sugar 0.4 ; proteids 6.0 ; fat 0.7 ; salts 0.5 

Potatoes water 75.00; starch 18; sugar 3.0; proteids 2.0; fat 0.2; salts 0.7 



White of egg., water 85.75; fat 025; 

Yolk of egg... water 50.79; fat 31.75 ; 

Beef, fresh.... water 68.19; nitrogen 3.02; fat 12.60; 

Veal water 62.80 ; fat 18.00 ; 

Ham, lean.... water 60.00; fat 14.40 ; 

Chicken water 74.80; fat 2.50; 



proteids 12.67 ; salts 0.59 
proteids 16.24; salts 1.07 
proteids 18.89 ; ash 0.96 
proteids 18.20 ; ash 1.00 
proteids 24.30 ; ash 1.30 
proteids 21.60 ; ash 1 10 
1.0; salts 2.0 
5.6; salts 3.0 



Bread water 37-00 ; starch 47 ; sugar 3.0 ; proteids 8.0 ; fat 

Oatmeal water 7.40 ; starch 58 ; sugar 5.4 ; proteids 12.6 ; fat 

Where the percentages do not make 100, the difference is made up of small 
quantities of waste materials or other minor food elements not given in the table. 

4 




Si^Mii^iS 



BOILING. 

Asparagus 20 min. 

Beans, navy, .... 2 hours 

Beets 35 min. 

Brussels Sprouts, . . 10 

Cabbage or Cauliflower, 20 

Carrots, young, ... 50 

Green Corn, .... 10 

Lima Beans 35 

Lentils, 2 hours 

Macaroni, Spaghetti, . 20 min. 

Onions and Paisnips, . 35 " 

Peas 15 " 

Peas, dried 2 hours 

Potatoes, 25 min. 

Rice 15 

Spinach 15 

String Beans 25 

Turnips 30 

, Beef, fresh, . per pound, 35 



Beef, corned. 
Beef, potted, 
Beef, smoked, 
Chicken, . 
Fowl, . . 
Ham, . . 
Mutton, . 
Pork, salt, 
Turkey, . 



30 
35 
20 
15 
25 
15 
15 
20 
15 



Bass, Bluefish, Salmon and other 
oily fish, . per pound, 10 min. 

Codfish, Haddock, Halibut, Pike, 
Whitefish, . per pound, 6 min. 

Crawfish 15 " 

Lobster 30 " 



ROASTING. 
Beef, ribs, per pound, 9-12 
Beef, round, " " 10-16 
Chicken, " " 12-15 

Duck or Goose, " " 18-20 
Fillet of Beef, ... 30 

Fish, large 50-60 

Fish, small, . . . 15-25 
Game birds, large, . 30-40 
Game birds, small 15-25 

Ham, per pound, 20 



min. 



Lamb, 
Mutton, leg, 
Mutton, saddle, 
Pork and Veal, 
Turkey, 
Venison, . . . 



12-15 
12-15 
10-12 
20 
12-15 
10-12 



BROILING. 

Beefsteak, 1 -in. thick, . 10-12 min. 
Beefsteak, 1^-in. thick, 12-16 " 
Bluefish, Shad or Trout, 20-25 " 
Chicken, spring, . . 15-20 " 



Fish, small. 
Game Birds, . 
Lamb Chops, 
Mutton Chops, 
Pigeons, young, 



8-12 

8-15 

8-10 

10-12 

10-15 



BAKING. 

Biscuits 20 min. 

Bread, white, .... 1 hour 

Bread, rye, Graham, etc., 2 hours 
Cake, ...... 1-1^ " 

Cakes, small, . . . 20-50 min. 
Custard, 1 hour 



To obtain the desired results, the above average time for cooking 
should be carefully observed and varied according to circumstances. 
- 5 





MDMKSl 





Hours 


Minutes 




Hours 


Minutes 


Apples, sour, . . 


2 




Fish, fried, . . . 


2 


40 


Apples, sweet, . . 


1 


30 


Fish, salted, . . 


4 




Barley, boiled, . . 


2 




Fowls, boiled or roasted 


4 




Beef, salt, boiled, . 


2 


45 


Goose, young, roasted, 


2 


30 


Beef, roasted, . . 


3 




Lamb 


2 


30 


Beefsteak, broiled, . 


3 




Milk, fresh, . . . 


2 


15 


Beefsteak, fried, . 


3 




Milk, boiled, . . 


2 




Beans, white, boiled, 


3 


45 


Mutton, roasted, . 


3 


15 


Beets, boiled, . . 


3 


45 


Mutton, boiled, . . 


3 




Bread, fresh, . . 


3 


30 


Oysters, raw. . . 


2 


55 


Bread, corn, . . 


3 


15 


Oysters, stewed. . 


3 


30 


Butter 


3 


30 


Parsnips, boiled, . 


2 


30 


Cabbage, with vinegar 


2 




Pork, pickled and boiled 


. 3 


15 


Cabbage, boiled, . 


4 


30 


Pork, roasted or fried 


5 




Cake, sponge, . . 


2 


30 


Potatoes, boiled, . 


3 


30 


Calf's Liver, fried. 


2 


30 


Potatoes, baked or fried 


, 2 


30 


Carrots, boiled, 


3 


15 


Rice, boiled, . . 


1 




Cheese, old, . . 


3 


30 


Sago, boiled, . . 


1 


45 


Chicken, boiled, . 


2 




Soup, bean, . . . 


. 3 




Corn, green, boiled, 


3 


45 


Soup, chicken, beef, etc. 


, 3 


15 


Custard, baked, 


2 


50 


Soup, barley, . . 


1 


30 


Duck, roasted, . . 


4 




Tapioca, boiled. 


. 2 




Eggs, fresh, raw, . 


2 




Tripe, boiled, . . 


. 1 




Eggs, whipped, . . 


1 


30 


Trout, fried, . . . 


. 1 


. 30 


Eggs, soft boiled. . 


. 3 




Turkey, roasted. 


. 2 


' 30 


Eggs, hard boiled, . 


. 3 


30 


Turnips, boiled. 


. 3 


30 


Eggs, fried. • • • 


. 4 


00 


Veal 


. 4 


30 


Fish, boiled. . . 


. 1 


30 


Venison Steak, broiled 


, 1 


45 



The figures denote averages under normal . conditions. The period 
of digestion, however, depends upon circumstances : proper cooking and 
seasoning of the food, the condition of the stomach at the time of eating, 
also mental excitement and physical excercise or rest after the meal. 

6 



MTCaEN 



1 bushel 
1 peck . 
1 gallon 
] quart 
pint 



pint 

gill 

gill 



1 

1 pint of liquid 

i 
1 

1, ounce " 

1 
1 
1 

2 
1 
3 
1 
1 



wineglass of liquid 

tablespoonful 

tablespoonful of salt 

heaping tablespoonful sugar . . . 
tabiespoonfuls powdered sugar . . 
heaping tablespoonful sifted flour 
tabiespoonfuls grated chocolate . . 
dessertspoonful equals 2 teaspoonfuls 

teaspoonful , 

A pinch of pepper . 

A. pinch of salt 

A dash of pepper 

A grate of nutmeg . . ... 

The juice of a lemon ...... 

The weight of a quart of flour . . . 

" " an egg 

" ten eggs 

A heaping cup of sugar or rice . . . 

butter or lard . . . 

tablespoonful of flour . . 

" cupful of flour .... 

quart of flour 

An even pint of granulated sugar . . 
Butter th^ size of an egg .... 

A good cook, as a rule, knows the exact proportion of the ingredients 
required to accomplish the desired results, but the inexperienced should 
follow closely the directipns given in the recipes, to avoid mistakes. 



^I^t*''- \j" *^^' 


o. 


^))jHEaSlffl^' 


^'Vfi 


^Jis^--**— n.-p.-'-'z^ 


equals 4 pecks. 




8 quarts. 




4 




2 pints. 




4 gills. 




1 pound. 




1 cup. 




4 large tabiespoonfuls 




1 wineglassful. 




2 tabiespoonfuls. 




2 tabiespoonfuls. 




2 dessertspoonfuls. 




1 ounce. 




1 ounce. 




1 ounce. 




1 ounce. 




1 ounce. 




4 saltspoonfuls. 




25 drops. 




^ saltspoonful. 




^ teaspoonful. 




^ saltspoonful. 




^ saltspoonful. 




' 1 tablespoonful. 




1 pound. 




1 ^ ounces. 




1 pound. 




7 ounces. 




' 7 ounces. 




1 ounce. 




6 ounces. 




1 pound. 




12 ounces. 




1 ounce. 






IMPORTANT FEATURES 

PAGE 



The Culinary Art, 1 

Kitchen and Table Suggestions, . 3 

Food Analysis, Kitchen Chemistry, 4 

Average Cooking Time, ... 5 



Time Required for Digestion, . . 6 

Kitchen Measures 7 

Wedding Anniversaries, . . ^ 458 
Golden Rules 500 



DEPARTMENTS 



Dbpt. 




PAGE 


Dept. 


No 


. 1. 


Soups, Stocks, . . . . 


9 


No 


. 18. 




2. 


Fish, Cheese Straws, . . 


39 


II 


19. 




3. 


Shell Fish and Oysters, . 


59 


(( 


20. 




4. 


Meats, Fresh and Salt, . 


71 








5. 


Poultry, Stuffings, . . 


99 




21. 




6. 


Game — How to Serve, . 


113 




22. 




7. 


Sauces, Gravies, . . . 


119 




23. 




8. 


Salads, Dressing:s, . . 


141 




24. 




9. 


Vegetables, Greens, . . 


155 




2S. 




10. 


Entrees, Side Dishes, . . 


179 




26. 




11. 


Desserts, Pudding Sauces 


185 




27. 




12. 


Cereals, Breakfast Foods 


225 








13. 


Eggs, Omelets, . . . 


233 




28. 




14. 


Bread, Yeast, . . . . 


243 




29. 




15. 


Cakes, FUHngs, . . . 


257 




30. 




16. 


Pastry and Pies, . . 


278 




31. 




17. 


Cookies, Fried Cakes, 
Fritters, 


289 




32. 



Pickles and Preserves, . 302 
Miscellaneous Dishes, . 318 
Artistic Cooking and 

Fancy Dishes, . . . 329 
Sick Room Recipes, . . 342 
Household Drinks, . . 352 
Candies, Candied Fruits, 364 
The Chafing Dish, . . 376 
Bride's Department, . . 381 
Fruits, Melons and Nuts, 393 
Menus for the Year . . 397 

Table d'Hdte Dinners, 434 
Marketing — How to Buy, 436 
Why and How — Hints, 439 
Seasoning and Flavoring, 444 
Practical Carving, . . 447 
Domestic Economy* — 
Household Management, 459 



APPENDIX 
Maxims and Quotations for Table and Menu, .... 

How to Remove Sinews from Turkey Legs, ..... 

The Fireless Cook Stove^ 

Dictionary French Trems Used in Cookery, with English Equivalents, 

Golden Thoughts, 456 

Forma] and Informal Invitations, Regrets, etc., 501 

Alphabetical or Cross-Index to all Recipes, ...... 505 

Jot Down the Recipes that should be Kept 522 

8 



PAGE 

435 
449 
450 
452 




Department 1. 

SOUP is liquid food made by boiling meat and vegetables or both, with 
seasoning and sometimes thickening, while broth is clear, without thick- 
ening, and strained from the solid ingredients retained in soup. Well 
made soups an^ broths are soothing, prepare the stomach for the heavier 
courses, and, as a rule, can be gotten up at small expense. But the best 
Boup is often spoiled or made unappetizing by too much grease floating on top. 
A good cook will aim to have a diiferent soup for every day in the week. 
Select wisely; prepare properly; cook well and serve daintily. 



I. CLEAR STOCK. 

The term "stock" means the juices of meats, bones and vege- 
tables extracted by long and slow simmering. Stock forms the 
basis of many soups and meat sauces. Any bones from the meats 
used for fooiJ may be utilized ; also all trimmings of roasts, steaks 
and other meats. Cover the material in the soup kettle with cold 
water (a quart of water for every pound of meat or bone), add a 
handful of salt and boil gently for several hours. 

Do not add spices. The vegetables should be taken out 
promptly When tender. Skim off the fat and all the dark scum 
(not the white). Add boiling water from time to time, as the 
stock boils away. When cooked sufficiently, take out the meat 



10 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

and bones and strain through a hair sieve or cloth. If not per- 
fectly clear, stir in 1 or 2 beaten eggs, put on the fire and as it 
boils up, skim off the egg, then strain carefully through a cloth. 

Keep the stock in a stone jar and in a cold place. After two or 
three days boil up again, to prevent turning. Don't keep too long. 

2. VEGETABLE STOCK. 

Boil 2 ozs. of kidney beans, 2 ozs. of split peas, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 
1 stick of celery, some parsley and herbs, pepper, salt, 5 cloves and 
a blade of mace (outer hull of nutmeg), in 2 quarts of water for 
three or four hours, and then strain. If left to stand and the sedi- 
ment is then skimmed off, it will keep probably as long as desired. 
This stock may serve as the basis for many good soups or gravies. 
A good cook will aim to keep a supply on hand. 

3. WHITE STOCK. 

Four pounds of knuckle of veal, any poultry trimmings or a 
rabbit, 4 slices of lean ham, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, 13 
white peppercorns, 2 ozs. of salt, 1 blade of mace, a bunch of herbs, 
1 oz. butter, 4 quarts of water. Cut up the veal, and put it, with 
the bones and trimmings of poultry and the ham, into the stewpan, 
which should be first rubbed jvith the butter. Moisten with Yn 
pint of water, and simmer till the gravy begins to flow. Then add 
the 4 quarts of water and the remainder of the ingredients ; sim- 
mer for live hours. After skimming and straining carefully 
through a fine hair sieve, it will be ready for use. 

This stock may be made stronger by using the water in which 
a young fowl or turkey has been boiled, or by increasing the 
quantity of veal, or by adding an old fowl too tough to be eaten. 
A young fowl cooked in this stock has a delicious flavor. Bones 
used once for brown stock can be boiled again for white stock 
with fresh vegetables. 

4. BROWN STOCK. 

Proceed in the same way as for white stock (see above), sub- 
stituting beef for veal. The hind shin bone of a beef will yield 



DEPARTMENT 1 11 

about 5 quarts of the best stock. Any remnants of gravy, all the 
trimmings and broken-up bones of other meats, if in good con- 
dition, may be put in. Let it come to a boil quickly, skim off the 
dark scum (not the white scum appearing afterwards), cover 
tightly and let simmer for four or five hours. Add a little boiling 
water from time to time. 

5. FISH STOCK. 

Take 2 pounds of any inexpensive kind of fresh fish, or the 
trimmings and heads of uncooked fish, a head of celery, a root of 
parsley, a blade or two of mace, (outer hull of nutmeg), 1 bay leaf, 
a few cloves, white pepper, and salt to taste ; 3 quarts of water. 
Put the whole into a saucepan, cover and let simmer gently for 
about two hours ; then strain off the liquor, 

6. CONSOMME. 

Chop 1% pounds of lean beef, 1 onion and 1 carrot together ; 
stir in 4 eggs, shells and all, then add 3 quarts of cold clear stock, 
put in a granite or porcelain kettle and let come to a boil. Skim 
thoroughly. Boil slowly for fifteen or tXventy minutes, then strain 
through a cloth, and serve. This soup is delicious and clear as 
amber if properly prepared. 

7. CONSOMME WITH EGG. 

Place a soft poached egg in each plate and pour over it a 
ladleful of the hot consomme and serve at once. 

8. CONSOMME WITH EGG NO. 2. 

Make a custard of 3 eggs and % a cup of sweet milk. Bake 
but do not brown. When done, cut in %-inch cubes, put in the 
soup, let come to a boil and serve. 

9. CONSOMME WITH TAPIOCA. 

Boil a small quantity of pearled tapioca in salted water until 
clear, then put in the soup and boil ten minutes before serving. 



13 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

10. CONSOMME WITH VERMICELLI. 

Boil the vermicelli in salted water until done, add to the soup 
and boil five minutes before serving. A small handful of chopped 
parsley or celery leaves will improve the flavor. 

11. CONSOMME JULIENNE. 

For 2 quarts of soup, take 2 small carrots, i/^ turnip, 1 leek, 
% onion, % stalk of celery, 1 ounce butter, 14 of a small cabbage 
head, a pinch of sugar, pepper and salt. Clean the vegetables and 
cut into long, narrow strips or thin slices. Put in saucepan with 
the butter, cook a few minutes, stir while cooking, then season. 
Add the clear stock, cook gently for thirty minutes, skim off the 
fat and serve. Cooked green peas or string-beans cut in strips, 
can be used. 



12. CONSOMME WITH MACARONI. 

Parboil the macaroni (10 minutes), in salted water, drain and 
add to boiling soup. Boil ten or fifteen minutes longer, add some 
grated Parmesan cheese, if desired, and serve at once. , 

13. CONSOMME WITH SPINACH. 

Work cooked and chopped spinach into balls the size of an 
egg and put one or two on each plate. If well done, the dish will 
be very inviting and appetizing. 

14. OX-TAILSOUF. 

Cut 1 ox-tail into pieces, making the separation at the joints, 
put in a saucepan with 1 tablespoonful of drippings or some salt 
pork and 1 chopped onion. Shake over the fire until it becomes a 
delicate brown. Put into soup pot with 2 quarts of cold water. 
When it boils, add 1 stick of celery, 1 root of parsley, 2 cloves and 
3 peppercorns. Let simmer for four hours, then put in ^ table- 
spoonful of salt, strain, and remove the grease. Select the best 
pieces of ox-tail, put in the soup and serve hot. 



DEPARTMENT 1 13 

15. CALVES' FOOT SOUP WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Boil 3 pair of calves' feet and 1 shank of ham from which the 
rind has been removed in 3 quarts of water for at least two hours, 
add 3 sprigs of parsley, the same of thyme (kitchen herb for sea- 
soning), a blade of mace and pepper and salt to taste. Boil two 
hours longer, strain and set away to cool. When cold, remove 
carefully all the fat and return to the kettle. The soup should be 
cleared by breaking in 1 egg and stirring briskly for a moment, 
then as it begins to boil, skim carefully or strain through a bag. 
Poach as many eggs as there are persons to be served, place in a 
tureen, pour the hot soup over them and serve at once. 

16. ENGLISH BEEF BROTH. 

Cut in small cubes (dice shape) 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 turnip, 1 
parsnip and 1 stick of celery. Fry to a nice brown in butter and 
add 3 pounds of beef rump cut fine. When browned, season with 
salt and pepper, add 3 quarts of boiling water and 1 cup of well 
washed barley. Simmer two hours, and serve with croutons 
(bread cut in small dice, browned in the oven and tossed with a 
/ little melted butter). 

17. SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH. 

For six* persons take 3 necks of mutton. Put in the soup ket- 
tle with 1 gallon of cold water, bring to boiling point slowly, 
skimming off all impurities. When boiling, add 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 
1 onion stuck with 3 cloves, 3 bay leaves and salt to taste. When 
the vegetables are tender, take them out, cut in small cubes (dice 
shape) and set aside, throwing away the bay leaves and cloves. 
When the mutton is cooked, take out, remove all the fat from the 
broth, strain, put back on the fire, add % cupful of barley blanched, 
cook until the barley is tender, then add the vegetables and also 
the meat cut in small squares. Boil up and serve. 

The quantity can be increased or decreased in the same pro- 
portion, according to the number of persons to be served. 



14 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

18. CHICKEN BROTH. 

Take a large fat fowl, pick clean, singe and draw. Wash 
carefully and put in boiling water with a little salt. Cover tight 
and cook ,slowly three to four hours. Rice, sago, noodles or 
dumplings may be cooked in the broth. 

Chicken broth should not be served clear, therefore roll some 
flour and butter into the shape and size of an egg and let dissolve 
in the boiling soup. 

19. CREAM OF CHICKEN. 

Boil 2 large fat fowls until extra tender, use only the white 
meat, cut it up and press through a sieve. Strain the stock and 
add to it the meat ; season with sufficient salt and pepper and let 
boil a few minutes ; now take the yolks of a dozen good fresh raw 
eggs and whip up with a pint of sweet cream, stir this into the 
stock and keep stirring until it all begins to thicken. Then add 
2/3 of a cup of butter, let it boil up once more, strain and serve in 
cups. 

20. CHICKEN BOUILLON. 

Cook for thirty minutes, 2 stalks of celery, 1 slice of onion, 6 
peppercorns and J4 of a bay leaf in 3 pints of clear chicken stock. 
Strain, and when cold remove all the fat. When wanted, heat to 
the boiling point, add a little salt and serve in cups. 

21. GIBLET SOUP. 

Boil the giblets of 2 or 3 fowls until tender in 2 quarts of 
water, then take out of the water, trim and chop fine ; strain the 
liquor, add to it 1 quart of milk (part creSfti will make it better), 
then, add the chopped giblets, thicken with ? tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter and 1 of flour stirred together and browned. Season with salt, 
pepper and a small onion shredded fine if this particular flavor is 
desired. Serve with bread sticks. 

22. CHICKEN GUMBO SOUP. 
Cut the pods of okra (gumbo) in %-inch pieces, boil until ten- 



DEPARTMENT 1 . 15 

der in 1 quart of stock, add the meat of a cooked chicken (or some 
veal), cut fine. Season to taste. 

23. OCHRA OR GUMBO SOUP. 

Take 2 quarts ripe tomatoes, 1 quart ochra (gumbo) cut in 
small rings, add 3 quarts water, put over fire and let come to a 
boil. Cut up 1 chicken and fry brown with plenty of gravy; put 
this in with the tomatoes and ochra (gumbo) ; add several small 
onions, chopped fine ; salt and pepper to taste. A little corn and 
lima beans are an improvement if desired. Let all simmer to- 
gether gently for several hours. To be served with a tablespoon- 
ful of boiled rice and green garden pepper, cut fine to each soup 
plate. 

24. NUMBER ONE TURTLE SOUP. 

Lay turtle on back, when neck stretches out, cut off head. 
Hang up turtle for twelve hours to bleed ; then divide shells, re- 
move entrails and carefully preserve green fat, which should 
be put into cold water to steep. Put fins and flesh with shells 
cut into pieces into boiling water for few minutes ; remove thin 
outer skin from flesh, put finer parts into sorne good stock and 
stew four hours; remove bones, put meat to press between two 
dishes until cold, then cut it up. Put bones and coarser parts of 
turtle into stockfat with plenty of ordinary stock, with some 
onions, celery, mushrooms, a little parsley, pepper, salt, add trim- 
mings of meat or poultry and stew six hours ; add stock in which 
the meat has been stewed ; strain and clarify soup, Blanch green 
fat cut up and put with chopped meat in soup ; let simmer until 
hot, add juice % lemon, 1^ glasses white wine, with cayenne 
pepper and salt to ta#te to every three pints of soup. Serve hot. 

25. BROWN MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Put the bones of a leg of veal, together with a calf's heart and 
liver, into a kettle and boil for four hours ; take out the heart and 
liver before this if tender; keep enough water in the kettle so 
there will be about 2 quarts of stock when strained, set away to 
cool and remove all fat. Brown 2 tablespoonfuls of flour in a 
small % cupful of butter, let the stock come to a boil, stir in the 



16 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

butter and flour, add 1 cupful each of the heart and liver cut into 
small dice, and season to taste. When ready to serve, slice 2 hard 
boiled eggs and 1 lemon into a soup tureen, pour the boiling soup 
over them and serve at once. A little ground mace (outer hull 
of nutmeg) or nutmeg, or a glass of sherry, may be added if de- 
sired. 

26. MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 

Cut up in small pieces 2 pounds of lean beef or veal, or 1 fowl 
or rabbit, and put in 2 quarts of water on the fire. Slice 2 large 
onions, fry brown in beef drippings and add to the meat. Add the 
peel of 1 lemon, 1 bunch of herbs and 1 clove of garlic. Let sim- 
mer five hours, skim well and strain. Return to the kettle, season 
well with salt and white pepper, and add a cup of boiled rice. 
When the rice begins to fall to pieces, stir in the juice of 1 lemon 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder, and serve. The word "mul- 
lagatawny" is East Indian and means "pepper pot." This should 
be kept in mind when seasoning. 



27. MULLAGATAWNY SOUP— NO. 2. 

Chop 1 carrot, 1 onion and 1 stick of celery and fry quickly in 
4 ozs. of butter. Cut into small dice the meat of 1 small chicken 
and 1 slice of smoked (not boiled) ham ; brown slowly in the veg- 
etable fry, seasoning with salt and pepper and a dessertspoonful 
of curry powder. When brown, add 2 quarts of stock and 2 cup- 
fuls of potato cut dice shape. Simmer one hour, skimming off all 
the fat. When serving put in the center of each plate 1 large 
tablespoonful of boiled rice. 

28. TOMATO SOUP. 

Take 3 quarts of stock and let boil ; add 1 can of tomatoes, 
or its equivalent in fresh tomatoes, % cupful of rice and boil 
from one and a half to two hours. When the rice is thoroughly 
doncj add a lump of butter the size of an egg, season with pepper 
and salt and 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 



DEPARTMENT 1 17 

29. CREAM OF TOMATO. 

Put 2 quarts of milk in a double boiler; let boil. Put in stew- 
pan 1 can of tomatoes, boil until soft, rub through a fine sieve, 
stir in 1 teaspoonful of soda to neutralize the acid. Rub together 
1 small tablespoonful of flour and a lump of butter the size of an 
tgg, stir in the boiling water, add the tomato, season with pepper 
and salt ; boil three minutes and serve immediately. 

30. POTATO SOUP. 

Shred 1 large onion in 3 pints of milk, add 2 stalks of celery, 
cut fine, put in a double boiler and let boil. In the meantime, 
pare and boil 6 or 7 medium-sized potatoes ; when cooked, mash 
thoroughly, beat light and add to the boiling milk, put in a lump 
of butter equal to 2 tablespoonfuls ; when melted, season with 
pepper and salt, put through a sieve and serve at once. 

31. POTATO SOUP— NO. 2. 

Pare 1 dozen large potatoes, and boil with 1 carrot, 2 onions 
and 1 celery root, all cut up, in 2 quarts of water, until the whole 
can be rubbed through a sieve. Add from 3 to 4 pints of white or 
brown soup-stock, thin with a little boiling water, if necessary, 
add salt and pepper according to taste, and serve. 

32. BOUILLON. 
(Clear Beef Soup.) 

Put 2 pounds of minced fresh beef in 2 quarts of cold water, 
bring to boil and let simmer for one half hour ; then add 1 carrot, 
1 onion, 1 stalk of celery and 1 sprig of parsley, chopped fine ; let 
simmer one hour longer. Strain through a fine sieve into earthen 
bowl. Next day remove the fat, add 1 pound of minced lean beef, 
bring the stock to a boil and let simmer again twenty minutes. 
Season with salt, pepper and celery-salt. Serve hot in thin cups. 
33. POTATO CHOWDER. 

Cut 4 ozs. of ham into dice and fry light brown together with " 
1 good-sized onion chopped fine. Pare 4 large, raw potatoes and 
cut into dice. Put alternate layers of ham and potato in a sauce- 



18 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

pan, seasoning each layer of potato with salt and pepper. Sprinkle 
with 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, add 2 cupfuls of 
hot water, cover and simmer twenty minutes. Make a roux 
(thickening) of 1 tablespoonful each of butter and flour, work in 
2 cupfuls of milk. Add to the chowder, with seasoning if neces- 
sary, and serve hot. 

34. CORN SOUP. 

Boil soup bone in 2 quarts of water until the meat separates 
from the bone. Boil 3 or 4 large tomatoes from which the skin 
has been removed, and 6 or 8 ears of sweet corn from which the 
corn has been cut. Cook together, cobs and all, for half an hour. 
Then take out the cobs and put corn and tomatoes into the beef 
broth, which has been strained and skimmed. Boil together for a 
few minutes-, season with salt and pepper and just before serving 
add 1 cupful of pure fresh cream. 

35. CREAM OP CORN. 

Take 1 can of com, or cut and scrape the corn off 4 ears of 
green corn, chop fine, add 1 pint of water and boil for an hour ; 
then press through a colander. Put 3 pints of good rich milk into 
? double boiler and when boiling hot add the strained corn. Rub 
a lump of butter the size of 1 egg and 2 small tablespoonfuls of 
flour together until smooth, stir into the soup, season with salt and 
pepper and just before serving, stir in the well beaten yolk of 1 
egg- 

36. CORN CHOWDER. 

Slice Vz pound of salt pork very fine, put in a smooth bottom 
kettle and put over the fire; when fried a few minutes, add 2 
shredded onions and 6 medium size potatoes sliced extra thin and 
fry all together until tender ; then add 1 quart of water and the 
green corn cut and scraped off of 8 ears; boil one-half hour, 
careful not to scorch, then add 2 quarts of rich milk and 2 table* 
spoonfuls of butter and 1 of flour rubbed together and browned. 
Season with salt and pepper and serve with bread sticks or toasted 
bread cut in bars. 



DEPARTMENT 1 19 

37. SUCCOTASH SOUP. 

Put 1 can of succotash on the fire with 2 cups of boiling water, 
1 medium sized onion, 2 stalks of celery arid some parsley, all chop- 
ped, also a teaspoonful of salt and ^4 a teaspoonful of white pepper 
and a dash of cayenne. Make a roux of 1 tea'spoonful each of but- 
ter and flour over the fire, stir in 2 cupfuls of hot milk. When the 
succotash has simmered half an hour, rub through a fine sieve and 
add to the white sauce. Stir well and serve hot. 

38. CORN SOUP. 

Two quarts milk, 1 can grated green corn in season or same 
quantity cornlet when green corn not obtainable, butter size of a 
walnut, pepper and salt to taste. Put the milk into double boiler 
and let come to a boil ; add corn, then butter, pepper and salt ; 
and tea cup of whipped cream just before serving. Delicious if 
prepared according to directions. 

39. RICE SOUP. 

Take either a shin (large bone of leg below the knee) of veal, 
a medium sized chicken or the remains of two or three roast 
chickens, boil in 3 quarts of water until the meat is tender. Sep- 
arate the meat from the bones and chop in pieces the size of a 
kernel of corn ; strain the liquor through a sieve, put back in the 
kettle, add 1 teacupful of rice and 1 head of celery, cut fine, boil 
until the rice is well done, add the chopped meat, season with pep- 
per and salt, boil five minutes longer and serve. 

40. BALTIMORE RICE SOUP. 

Clean 10 large carrots, parboil five minutes, drain, dry and put 
in soup-pot with 3 ozs. of butter, 1 large sliced onion and the white 
part of 1 leek. Cook five minutes, stirring ; add 2 quarts of stock, 
season with salt, pepper and a little mace (the outer skin of a nut- 
meg), simmer till the carrots are soft. Rub all through a fine 
sieve and return to soup-pot, add more stock, 1 scant dessert- 
spoonful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of butter, and 1 oz. of corn- 
flour mixed first with a little water or milk. Stir well, let simmer 



20 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

fifteen minutes, add 14 pound of rice boiled in beef stock ; skim and 
serve with bread sippets (bread cut in triangular shapes). 

41. CREAM OF CELERY. 

Cut 3 or 4 heads of nice white celery in small pieces, cover 
with water and boil until tender, from one-half to one hour. Drain 
and mash fine. Put back into the water and add 3 pints of milk 
boiling hot. Rub together 1 tablespoonful of flour and a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, add to the cream, season with pepper 
and salt, boil three rninutes and serve. 

42. VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Take 3 quarts of stock, 14 of a head of cabbage, Yz a turnip, 1 
carrot, 2 onions, 3 potatoes ; chop all the vegetables together, add 
to the stock and boil one hour, season to taste and serve. 

43. NOODLE SOUP. 

Let 2 quarts of stock come to a boil in a kettle. Add the noo- 
dles and 1 handful of green celery leaves chopped fine, boil fifteen 
minutes, add salt and pepper to taste and serve. (See Noodles at 
the end of this department.) 

44. PEA SOUP. 

Take 1 can of peas or 1 quart of fresh peas, boil until tender 
and rub through a sieve, add 1 quart of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste and boil five minutes. Just before 
serving add 2 soda crackers pulverized. Serve at once. 

45. PEA SOUP— NO. 2, 

Boil for two hours 3 quarts of green peas in 4 quarts of water, 
drain off the water and set it aside ; then chop fine 1 onion and 
add 1 small sprig- of mint; rub the peas through a sieve and 
mix all together ; put in the liquid drained from the peas, return 



DEPARTMENT 1 31 

to the fire and boil for ten minutes. Blend 1 tablespoonful of flour 
with 2 of butter, and stir smoothly into the boiling soup. Serve 
with bread sticks. 



46. SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Wash 2 pounds of split peas, put in saucepan with 2 quarts of 
water and boil for one hour. Drain off the water and add 4 quarts 
of good strong stock, 1 ham bone, 1 onion and 1 carrot chopped 
together. Let all simmer together for three or four hours, put 
through a sieve, season to taste and serve with croutons (small 
pieces of bread cut dice shape and fried). 



47. SPLIT PEA SOUP— NO. 2. 

Soak over night, 1 quart of peas, for 4 quarts of soup. Put the 
meat (1 part of pork and 2 parts of beef, either smoked, pickled 
or fresh) on the fire covered with water, three hours before dinner- 
time. Very salty meat should soak over night and the water 
changed twice. Put the peas on the fire at the same time, boil an 
hour and drain. If not soft, add l/^ a teaspoonful of soda and boil 
a little longer. Take off most of the fat floating on the soup, add 
the peas, some onion and allspice, and let simmer. Just before 
time for serving take out the meat and rub the soup through a 
sieve. If not even and thick enough, boil up once more and stir in 
some grated raw potato. Or, 10 peeled raw potatoes may be added 
in time to boil to pieces before ready for the meal. If the meat is 
smoked or pickled, little or no salt is needed. 

48. WHITE BEAN SOUP. 

Take 1 cupful of nice white beans, parboil and drain ; put in 
fresh water and boil until tender but not soft enough to mash. 
Add 2 quarts of milk and let come to a boil, add a lump of butter 
the size of an egg and season with pepper and salt. A few minutes 
before serving, break up 4 or 5 soda crackers, add to the soup, stir 
up well and serve. 



22 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

49. WHITE BEAN SOUP— NO. 2. 

This soup is made exactly like Split Pea Soup No. 2. If fresh 
meat is used, a ham-bone boiled with the soup will give a fine 
flavor? Many people like 2 or 3 sour apples boiled to pieces in the 
soup. A little celery-root or parsley-root will give a pleasant 
taste. A little vinegar or lemon juice may be added, after serving, 
by those who relish the taste. 

50. BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Boil 1 quart of black beans in 3 quarts of water until tender, 
replenishing the water if necessary. Mash through a colander, 
add 1 teaspoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Just before 
serving add 3 hard boiled eggs chopped fine, 1 lemon sliced thin, 
or 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, and i/^ glass of sherry wine or less, 
if desired. 

51. COMBINATION SOUP. 

Pare and. slice 3 carrots, 3 potatoes and 3 onions, and boil with 
2 sticks of celery in 2 quarts of water until tender. Drain, rub 
through sieve and return to the water. Set on the fire, add 1 table- 
spoonful of good butter, 1 pint of good stock or 1 teaspoonful of 
liquid beef and salt to taste, let come to a boil while stirring and 
serve with croutons. 

52. TURNIP SOUP. 

Boil enough turnips soft, drain and rub through a sieve to 
make 1 pint. Add 2 quarts of hot milk, 1 saltspoonful of soda, 1 
heaping teaspoonful of salt, pepper to taste, and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of onion juice. Thicken with flour and butter rubbed together, let 
come to a boil while stirring and serve immediately. This soup, 
with bread and butter, will make a palatable, economical supper. 

53. CREAM OF CUCUMBER. 

Peel 3 large cucumbers, quarter, remove seeds, slice coarsely. 
Parboil in salted water, drain, put in saucepan with 1 oz. of but- 
ter ; cover, stew one-half hour, season with pepper, salt and 1 tea- 



DEPARTMENT 1 23 

spoonful of sugar. Heat 3 ozs. of butter in another saucepan, stir 
in 2 ozs. of flour, but do not let it turn brown. Add the cucum- 
bers, dilute with 2 pints of chicken stock, boil up, skim, add 1 
pint of boiling milk. Simmer twenty minutes, rub through fine 
sieve. Stir 1 gill of cream and 2 egg-yolks well together, pour into 
the soup, return to fire, stir until well blended. Serve with bread 
cut dice shape, fried brown. 

54. CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook 1 large head of cauliflower in salted water until tender 
and rub it through a fine sieve. Bring the water again to boil, 
stir in 6 ozs. crushed tapioca, simmer twenty minutes. Mix 1% 
ozs. of rice flour with a little cold milk, boil up a scant pint of 
milk with 1 pint of white stock, stir in the rice flour and cook for 
a few minutes, stirring constantly. Put all together, season with 
salt and pepper and a trace of grated nutmeg, bring to a boil, add 
1 gill of cream, take off the fire and stir a minute longer, but do 
not let come to a boil again. 

55. CREAM OF NUTS. 

Blanch (to whiten, by skinning or scalding) 1 pint of nut 
meat (any kind or mixture of nuts), remove the skins, cook in 
slightly salted water until soft, drain, rub through a colander. 
Simmer 3 pints of clear stock with 1 saltspoonful each of paprika 
(Hungarian pepper), cloves and nutmeg, thirty minutes, strain 
and add to the nut pulps. Heat again, add salt if necessary, and 
serve Avith 1 tablespoonful of whipped cream to each plate. 

56. CREAM OF CHESTNUT. 

Split 3 pints of large chestnuts across with a sharp knife, pour 
into boiling water, boil two minutes, drain, dry on cloth and put 
into frying pan with a bit of butter. Cover with a cloth, roast 
over hot fire five minutes, then remove shells while hot. Put in 
large soup-pot with 2 quarts of beef stock or game stock. Simmer 
till soft, rub through fine sieve, return to pot, dilute with more 
stock if too thick, season with salt, pepper, a little sugar and 



84 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

grated nutmeg, stir until it boils, add gradually 4 ozs. of butter. 
Stir y2 gill of cream and 3 egg-yolks together, pour into soup and 
stir until entirely blended. Serve with croutons. 

57. CHESTNUT SOUP. 

Remove the shells of 1 quart of chestnuts and place the meats 
in the oven until the brown skin peals off easily. Put them in a 
stewpan, cover with chicken or veal broth and boil until tender. 
Mash and put through a sieve, add 3 pints of good strong chicken 
or veal broth, 1 cupful of chicken or veal chopped fine, 1 shredded 
onion, pepper and salt to taste, and also 1 pint of thick sweet 
cream. Serve piping hot. 

58. ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Take 1 bunch of asparagus and cut in quarter inch lengths, 
boil until tender but not too soft, and drain off the water. Chop 
1 onion very fine, put in a stewpan with a lump of butter the size 
of 1 egg, and fry to a light brown, then add the asparagus and 
mix carefully ; when slightly browned add 1 quart of boiling milk, 
let it boil up once, season with pepper and salt and serve. 

59. CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 

Put the heads of 2 bunches of asparagus (white if obtainable) 
in a granite stewpan, boil until tender and set aside ; cut the re- 
mainder of the asparagus into inch lengths, boil until soft and 
press through a sieve or colander. Put into a double boiler 3 
pints of milk and 1 pint of white soup stock, add the strained 
asparagus and thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 1 of 
flour blended smoothly (roux), then put in the asparagus heads 
and serve at once. 

60. ONION SOUP. 

Cut 8 onions in small pieces and fry to a light brown in 3 ozs. 
of butter, then pour into a stewpan containing 2 quarts of water 
into which 1 tablespoonful of rice flour has been stirred, add 1 tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Let simmer 



DEPARTMENT 1 25 

for twenty minutes. Thicken with a "roux" made of a table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour and, if necessary, pass the soup 
through a sieve. Spanish onions give the best flavor. 

61. CREAM OF ONION. 

Peel and slice 4 onions, put into boiling water, let simmer five 
minutes, take off the fire, drain thoroughly. Heat 1 tablespoonful 
of butter in a stewpan, add the onions, cook for ten minutes with- 
out allowing them to color ; add 1 pint of boiling water, let sim- 
mer forty-five minutes, till tender. Rub through a fine sieve, add 
1 cupful of milk, and put again on -the fire. Make a roux of 1 ta- 
blespoonful each of butter and flour and add this to the boiling 
mass. Stir until creamy. Season. Beat 1 yolk of tgg, add 1 cup 
of cream, and stir into the soup, which must be removed from the 
fire before it boils again. 

Considered delicate and wholesome, especially in spring. 

62. PUREE OF SPINACH. 

Steam for ten or fifteen minutes 3 or 3 quarts of spinach, take 
out of steamer and chop extra fine, using the drained off water to 
color the soup. When chopped, put in a double boiler, add the 
water, 1 pint of white stock and 1 quart of sweet milk. Bring to 
a boil, then thicken with a lump of butter the size of an egg and 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour blended together (roux) ; season with salt, 
pepper and a little onion juice. Strain through a sieve, reheat, 
and serve with bread sticks. 

63. MUSHROOM SOUP. 

Peel and cut up fine J4 pound of mushroms. Stew about ji 
of this in a pint of water and 1 pint of chicken or veal stock. 
Cream a tablespoonful of flour and butter over the fire and stir 
into the liquid. Strain into a bowl, add 1 cup of cream and the 
remaining mushrooms and let come to a boil; add pepper, salt 
and the well beaten yolk of 1 egg. Remove from the fire at once 
and serve in cups topped with whipped cream if desired. 



26 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

64. EGG SOUP. 

To 1 pint of boiling water add 1 tablespoonful of butter, salt 
and pepper to taste ; break 2 fresh eggs in a cup, hold the cup in 
the left hand and a fork in the right, pour the egg slowly into the 
boiling water, beating briskly with the fork until the egg looks 
like white and yellow shreds. Take from the stove and serve. 
For two persons. You can make this soup in one minute after 
the rest of the dinner is ready to serve. 



65. WHITE SOUP. 

One-fourth pound of sweet almonds, % pound of cold veal or 
poultry, a thick slice of stale bread, a piece of fresh lemon peel, 
1 blade of mace, pounded ; ^ pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 
quarts of white stock. Reduce the almonds in a mortar to a 
paste, with a spoonful of water, and add to them the meat, which 
with the bread should be pounded into a pulp beforehand. Beat 
all together and add the lemon peel, finely chopped, and the mace. 
Put all in the boiling stock and simmer for an hour. Rub the 
eggs in the cream, put in the soup, bring it to a boil and serve im- 
mediately. 

66. WHITE SWISS SOUP. 

Bring to a boil 3 pints of any good meat stock (veal preferred). 
Beat together 2 eggs, 2 tablespopnfuls of flour, and i^ a cupful of 
sweet milk. Pour the mixture through a fine colander into the 
boiling soup. Season with salt and pepper and serve at once. 

67. MILK SOUP. 

Take 4 large potatoes and 2 onions, cut fine and boil in 2 quarts 
of water until thoroughly done; strain through a colander, put 
back in the kettle, add 1 pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of pearl 
tapioca, a lump of butter the size of an egg, season with salt and 
pepper. Boil slowly and stir often for fifteen or twenty minutes 
and serve hot. 



DEPARTMENT 1 37 

68. CIDER SOUP. 

Stir 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted flour and 6 fresh yolks of egg 
into 1 quart of cider and 1 quart of water, sweeten, add a few 
slices of lemon without seeds, a pinch of salt, and put on the fire 
in a pot that has been thoroughly cleaned. Stir constantly with a 
wire egg-beater over a hot fire, and as soon, as it boils pour into 
a tureen, into which a little powdered mace (outer hull of nut- 
meg) has been put. The whites of the eggs may be beaten stiff 
and formed into small dumplings, which are then put on top of 
the soup and dusted with sugar. If the cover is quickly put on, 
the dumplings will be cooked before the tureen reaches the table. 
Serve sugared croutons or sweet biscuits with the soup, which 
may be varied by taking the whole eggs, instead of the yolks only, 
and only half the quantity of flour. This will make the soup 
frothy. In either case the soup will be delicious. 

69. WHITE WINE SOUP. 

Is made exactly like Cider Soup, substituting white wine for 
cider. 

70. CLARET SOUP. 

Soak 1 cupful of sago in cold water for three hours. Rinse 
twice in fresh water, and boil until transparent in 1 quart of water 
with a small stick of cinnamon. Add 1 pint of claret, some lemon 
juice and sugar, and remove from the fire just before boiling. Serve 
with small biscuits or zweiback (sweet, spiced bread, toasted). 
If tapioca is substituted for sago, do not soak before cooking. A, 
tablespoonful of raspberry or pineapple jelly put in with the wine 
adds a delicious flavor. 

71. CORNMEAL SOUP. 

Boil half milk and half water, stir in enough fine cornmeal to 
make the soup creamy, salt to taste, and serve. Very nutritious 
and palatable. 

72. CHERRY SOUP. 

Boil 1 quart of sour cherries, 1 slice of toast and a piece of 



28 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

lemon peel in 1 quart or more of water until the cherries go to 
pieces. Rub through a sieve, boil up, add sugar, a little salt and 
cinnamon and 1 pint of claret. Heat, but do not let come to a boil. 
Serve with sweet biscuits or zweiback (sweet, spiced bread 
toasted). 

73, PRUNE SOUP. 

Good for invalids. Clean the prunes (or blue plums), and put 
on the fire with half the quantity of oatmeal, sugar, cinnamon, 
slices of lemon without seeds, a pinch of salt and enough water in 
an earthen or granite pot. Cook slowly until soft. Rub through 
a sieve, return to the fire, add a little beef extract and stir in 2 
yolks of egg lightly beaten with 1 glass of wine or cider. 



74. APPLE SOUP. 

Cut up 3 or 3 large sour apples and boil soft with 1 cup of 
cleaned rice, rub through a sieve, return to the fire, add a little 
cinnamon, lemon peel and salt, sweeten to taste, let simmer half 
an hour longer, remove from fire, stir in the yolk of an egg and 
serve. 

75. GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 

For a dinner of twelve plates, take 2 cans of turtle. Turn the 
contents on a large platter and carefully separate the green fat 
from the meat. Cut the fat into square bits and set aside. Put 
the remainder of the turtle in a porcelain kettle and add 2 quarts 
of water and a sprig each of thyme, parsley, sage and summer 
savory, also a dozen whole black peppers and a few cloves. Let 
this all come to a boil and then set back on the range to simmer. 
Now put in a granite frying pan y2 cupful of butter. Put on the 
fire and when melted, put in 2 or 3 onions chopped fine, 1 small 
carrot cut in slices and 2 or 3 stalks of celery cut in bits. Let all 
cook to a light brown, being careful not to scorch. Lift the veg- 
etables from the pan into the soup, and into the butter, in which 
the vegetables have been browned, stir V^ cupful of flour. Brown 
slightly and then stir in the soup and let all cook slowly together 
for about forty-five minutes. Place into a hot tureen the green 



DEPARTMENT 1 29 

fat, 1^ dozen hard boiled eggs sliced and, if desired, 1 or 2 lemony 
sliced thin. If for six persons, take only half the quantities indi- 
cated, for any other number in croportion. 



76. CREAM OF SHRIMPS. 

Put into a saucepan 2 tablespoonfuls of bufrter and 1 of flour, 
put over the fire and stir until smooth, add 1 can of shrimps or the 
same quantity of fresh ones, torn into small pieces, and let cook 
for a few minutes, then add li/^ pints of milk and cook until 
creamy. Season with salt and a pinch of paprika (Hungarian 
pepper) if desired. 

77. LOBSTER SOUP. 

Chop fine the contents of 1 can of lobsters, and boil slowly for 
ten or fifteen minutes in 3 pints of white stock. Cook 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour with 2 of butter, but do not brown, add to the 
soup, season to taste and serve. 

78. OYSTER SOUP. 

Cut 2 dozen large good oysters into quarters, preserving the 
liquor, and put them in a bowl with a little cream. Melt 4 ozs. 
of butter in a saucepan, add the flour, cook a few minutes, add 
2y2 quarts of stock (white stock or fish stock), and the oyster 
liquor, stir until it boils, skim and let simmer for half an hour. 
Season with a little pepper, a little salt, very little nutmeg and a 
little mace. Then boil up, add Yz pint of rich milk or cream and 
take off the fire. Mix the yolks of 2 eggs with the oysters, add a 
few drops of lemon juice and put in the soup. Heat quickly, but 
do not allow to boil again. Serve at once. 

79. OYSTER SOUP— NO. 2. 

Boil 2 pounds of lean beef in 1 quart of water, seasoning with 
salt only. Chop enough green onions, parsley and chervil to make 
1 cupful, fry in hot butter to a light brown, thicken with a little 
flour and then add the beef broth. Stir in the liquor of 2 dozen 



30 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

oysters and a little more water if necessary, season with a sprig 
of thyme, 1 bay leaf and a saltspoonful of white pepper. Put in 
the oysters, bring to a boil and serve hot with triangles of toasted 
bread. 

80. TWENTIETH CENTURY OYSTER SOUP. 

* 

One pint best and freshest oysters, rinse in a cupful cold water ; 
drain. Lift carefully into flat bottom granite stewpan. Sprinkle 
with 1 teaspoon of salt and 1 saltspoon black pepper and top with 
1 large tablespoonful butter cut in bits. Cover tightly and place 
on stove on hot place and shake until edges curl, when they are 
done. 

Put the liquor from the oysters in another stewpan, when it 
boils skim and set back where it will keep hot. 

Scald 1 pint rich milk in double boiler. When ready to serve 
pour the liquor on oysters, then the milk. Bring at once to table 
with hot toasted crackers. 

TOASTED CRACKERS FOR OYSTER SOUP. 

Split and butter on the inside 5 or 6 Boston crackers. Put on 
. tin and brown in the oven. Serve hot with oyster soup. 

81. CREAMED OYSTER SOUP. 

Let 2 quarts of milk come to a boil. Drain the liquor off 3 
pints of good fresh oysters, and chop fine. Stir 2 small table- 
spoonfuls of flour in 4 of melted butter. Put the oysters in the 
boiling milk, stir in the butter and flour, season with pepper and 
salt, let boil up once and serve. 

82. CLUB CLAM SOUP. 

Boil in as little water as possible, 2 thin slices of salt pork cut 
into small bits and 2 small onions chopped fine. ■ When tender, 
add 2% dozen large clams chopped fine, their juice, a very little 
ground mace (outer hull of nutmeg), 2 stalks of parsley chopped 
fine, and 2 quarts of water; boil for thirty minutes and thicken 
with 3 tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into a scant % cupful of 



DEPARTMENT 1 31 

butter, season with salt and pepper and take off the fire. When 
it has stopped boiling, stir in the well beaten yolks of 4 eggs and 
serve. 

83. RHODE ISLAND BISQUE OF CLAMS. 

Put the liquor of 25 clams on the fire with 1 pint of milk, 1 of 
water, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 12 whole peppers, 1 teaspoonful 
of grated nutmeg or mace, and salt to taste. When boiled ten 
minutes, strain, add the clams, cover the pot and boil vigorously 
for thirty minutes, but take care that the soup does not burn. 

DUMPLINGS AND OTHER GARNISHINGS FOR 
SOUPS, STEWS, ETC. 

The following recipes will be welcome to most housekeepers, 
because they add greatly to the resources of the cook for offering 
a variety. The heavier kinds described are good served with 
boiled apples, pears, prunes, etc., the lighter kind with soups and 
in fricassees or stews. 

When the batter is ready, put one dumpling in boiling water 
for a test ; if it does not hold together, flour must be worked in as 
a binder. 

All dumplings must be cooked in water or soup that is boiling 
violently. Dip the spoon in the boiling liquid every time before 
cutting dumplings from the dough. Serve them at once, when 
ready. 

Dumplings remaining over taste good fried, either alone or 
mixed with sliced apples, Irish or sweet potatoes. 

84. COMMON DUMPLINGS. 

Put flour in a large deep dish, add a little salt, and then add 
by spoonfuls boiling water with one hand, while mixing quickly 
with a knife in the other hand, constantly changing the direction 
in which you stir. The water must be boiling, every spoonful. 
As soon as no more dry flour can be seen in the dish, cut dump- 
lings from the batter with a tablespoon, putting each one into the 
boiling water and dipping the spoon in the boiling water every 



32 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

time. Boil five to ten minutes. They are cooked when light and 
no longer sticky when cut through. Eggs may be added to the 
batter. 

85. MILK DUMPLINGS. 

Beat 3 or 3 eggs and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt into a pint of milk, 
add enough flour to make a thick batter. A tablespoonful of sour 
cream or milk added makes the dumplings lighter. Cut with ta- 
blespoon and boil ten minutes. 

86. SUET DUMPLINGS. 

Mix 1 pint of sifted flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 
scant tablespoonful of suet chopped fine, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. 
Work into soft dough with sweet milk. Boil twenty minutes in 
a covered saucepan, without uncovering. 

87. QUICK DUMPLINGS. 

Beat 2 eggs light and add 1 cupful of sweet milk and 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, stir in enough flour to keep its shape when han- 
dled and iy2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Cut in small spoon- 
fuls and place on top of stew or pot-pie, cover and let boil for 
about ten minutes. If they should fall, put in a little more flour 
next time. 

88. SMALL DUMPLINGS. 

Cream butter the size of an egg, add gradually the yolks of 2 
eggs, the white of 1 egg, a little grated nutmeg, some chopped 
parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and stir until smooth. 
Cut with a teaspoon. Boil ten minutes. 

89. SPONGE DUMPLINGS. 

Put 1 white of egg into a tumbler, fill up with milk. Pour this 
and 1 tumbler full of flour and a small piece of butter into a sauce- 
pan and stir over the fire until the whole sticks to the stirring 
spoon. Set to ccol, add 2 yolks of egg and a little mace, cut small 
dumplings, putting them into the soup, cover tightly and boil ten 
minutes. Serve immediately in the soup. 



DEPARTMENT 1 33 ' 

90. SPONGE DUMPLINGS— NO. 2. 

Stir together 2 ounces best flour and Va pint milk or water, 
add white of 1 egg, and pour into 4 ozs. boiling hot butter. 
Stir over the fire until the mass sticks to the pot no longer. Then 
work 2 ozs. of butter until soft, add nutmeg to taste, also yolks 
of 4 eggs, one after the other, and mix with the cooked flour when 
slightly cooled. If unsalted butter is used, add salt to taste. 
Beat the whites of 3 eggs stifif, work into the mass, form into 
dumplings by cutting with a wet spoon, and boil in soup ten 
minutes, keeping the soup kettle covered. 

This quantity will sufiice for fourteen persons in consomme. 
The dumplings are also excellent cooked and served with green 
peas. 

91. DUMPLINGS OF BREAD DOUGH. 

When the dough has risen the second time, make from a part 
of it small balls, let them rise a little more and put them on top of 
cooking dried apples or prunes, where they will rise still more 
and cook. Served with ham or cold roast pork, makes a nice fam- 
ily dish. Or they may be boiled in salted water and'served with 
browned butter ; but in this case they must be taken out of the 
water as soon as cooked, or they will become heavy, and they 
must not be cut with a knife, but torn with a fork. 

92. POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

Knead some grated boiled potatoes with a few eggs and flour 
into a firm dough, make a long roll of it, cut into pieces on the bias 
and form the dumplings by hand. Boil ten to fifteen minutes in 
salt water. 

93. POTATO DUMPLINGS— NO. 2.^ 

Grate 15 medium-sized cold boiled potatoes. Cut 2 slites of 
wheat bread into cubes (dice shaped), brown them in butter, and 
add them to the potatoes with one small cupful of flour, 2 eggs, 
salt and a little nutmeg. Mix well, make dumplings the size of a 
fist and boil evenly from fifteen to twenty minutes. 



34 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

94. BREAD DUMPLINGS. 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir in 2 yolks of eggs, 
some finely chopped parsley or a little mace (outer hull of nut- 
meg). Add about 1 pint of stale bread, soaked in water and 
squeezed out, and the white of 2 eggs beaten stiff. Cut small 
dumplings with a wet spoon and boil five minutes in the soup. 

95. CUSTARD DUMPLINGS. 

Beat 2 eggs well in a tin, add a pinch of salt, a grate of nutmeg 
and, if desired, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Whisk in 1 cup 
of either milk or stock, or y^ cup of each. Place the tin in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water and cook until thick. Cut out neatly with a 
spoon and put a little in each soup plate. 

This is a very delicious addition to Consomme Julienne. For 
a special dinner the custard may be used as follows: Fill some 
timbale cups with cooked carrots, turnips and string beans, all cut 
into small cubes, and a few cooked green peas, if desired, all 
mixed thoroughly. Then fill the cups with the uncooked custard, 
set them in a pan with hot water and cook in a slow oven, until 
the custard is firm. When cold, unmold and with a sharp knife 
cut into slices % of an inch thick. Serve in a clear soup. 

96. MARROW BALLS. 

Melt 1 tablespoonful of marrow, strain through a cloth into a 
bowl, beat till creamy, add 1 t^'g, and beat well again. Add salt, 
pepper and a trace of nutmeg, and enough fresh bread to absorb 
all. Work into a paste and form small balls, which are put in 
gently boiling water for ten minutes. Take out of the water and 
add to the soup just before serving. 

It is well to put at first only 1 ball in the boiling water, as a 
test. If it falls apart, add more bread to the paste. If it is too 
hard, work a few drops of water into the paste. 

97. MARROW BALLS— NO. 2. 

Stir together % pound beef marrow cut fine, 3 tablespoonfuls 
sour cream, 3 eggs, salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste, add enough 



DEPARTMENT 1 35 

white bread, without the crust, to form small balls between the 
wet hands. Cook in the soup. 

98. NOODLES. 

Noodles are mostly eaten in soup, in which they are cooked, 
but they are also served as a vegetable dish with roast veal, 
chicken, ham, or with stewed apples or prunes, or boiled and then 
fried in butter. As a vegetable boil them tender in plenty of 
salted water, turn into a drainer, pour boiling water quickly over 
them, and serve with hot butter and fried bread crumbs. 

Slightly beat 3 eggs and mix with 2 tablespoonfuls of water 
and 1 pinch of salt and enough flour to make a stiff dough. Work 
it twenty minutes, adding, if necessary, a little more flour to ren- 
der the dough smooth and elastic. Roll a small part of the dough 
on a cloth until as thin as a wafer, then sprinkle lightly with flour 
and roll up. Beginning at one end, cut the roll into threads if for 
soup, into ribbons J4 inch wide if for other purposes. Let them 
dry for one hour. Will keep indefinitely. 

99. NOODLES— NO. 2. 

Work 4 eggs, 4 spoonfuls of milk, 3 ozs. of butter into a paste 
with enough of the finest flour to knead on a paste board, con- 
stantly shaking flour over it, until it becomes a stiff dough. Cut 
into 4 pieces, roll out as thin as paper, and hang over a pole to 
dry. When dried half an hour, cut each piece again in 4, lay the 
pieces upon each other, roll up, cut into strips^ of the desired 
width, and shake them apart. They are then ready for use, but 
can be kept for several weeks. 

100. NOODLE BALLS. 

Roll some of the paste (made as indicated in the first recipe 
for noodles) as thin as paper on a floured cloth, fold it over once 
and with a vegetable cutter or a tube cut out disks about J4 inch 
across. Put them in a frying basket and fry in smoking hot fat, 
constantly shaking the basket. They color and form balls in one 



36 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

minute. Take out of the fat, dip for an instant in boiling water, 
drain on paper and serve separately with the soup. 

101. FORCE-MEAT BALLS. 

Take 1 cupful of raw veal chopped fine, 1 of soft bread crumbs, 
a large tablespoonful of melted butter and 1 beaten egg, season 
with salt and work all together thoroughly ; make into small balls 
and fry brown in hot lard. 

Force-meat balls may be made of any raw or cooked meat 
chopped fine, highly seasoned with salt, pepper, thyme, onion 
juice and lemon juice, and with enough yolk of egg to bind the 
meat. By omitting one or the other of the seasonings a variety 
can be obtained in flavors. Roll the balls in flour and poach in 
boiling water or fry in butter. 

102. CHICKEN BALLS. 

Chop left-over chicken meat with double the quantity of bread 
soaked in milk or water and squeezed dry again, and a little par- 
sley. Stir fresh beef marrow the size of a walnut into 3 or 4 eggs, 
add this to the meat, season with salt and a little nutmeg, mix 
well and form small balls, which are served in Consomme, chicken 
broth or any similar soup. 

103. BEEF BALLS. 

Mix well % pound of raw chopped beef, 2 yolks of egg, 1 cup 
of bread soaked and squeezed dry, 1 heaping tablespoonful of 
creamed butter, a little salt, a trace of nutmeg, and finally work in 
the white of 1 egg beaten stiff. 

104. VEAL FORCEMEAT. 

One-half pound of lean veal, sliced and freed from all skin and 
sinews, together with 14 pound beef suet shredded and % pound 
of bacon in thin strips, are pounded in a mortar, passed through a 
sieve, seasoned with salt and aromatic spices to taste, also a tea- 
spoonful each of chopped parsley, mushrooms and onions. Mix 
well with % cup of bread crumbs, work for a few minutes longer, 
bind with two well-beaten eggs. Try a small ball of this in boil- 
ing water ; should be firm, light and well flavored. 



DEPARTMENT 1 37 

105. CHICKEN FORCEMEAT. 

Bring to a boil % gill chicken stock and 1 oz. of butter, stir in 
1 oz. of flour, continue to boil and stir till perfectly smooth, about 
six minutes. Spread on plate to cool. Take skin and sinews out 
of 1/^ pound raw chicken, cut up small and pound smooth in mor- 
tar. To this add the cooled preparation, working in a little at a 
time, also 1 egg and if desired some cream. When smooth, sea- 
son with pepper, salt and a grate of nutmeg. Rub through fine 
wire sieve. 

106. LIVER FORCEMEAT. 

Slice and fry Yz pound of good calf's liver and i/4 pound of 
bacon, with 1 small carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 small onion, all 
chopped, and 1 small bunch of herbs. Season with pepper, salt 
and nutmeg while frying. Stir constantly till cooked. Remove 
the herbs. Pound in a mortar and rub through a fine sieve. 

107. MUSHROOM FORCEMEAT. • 

Wash 3 large fresh mushrooms or 3 ozs. of preserved ones, 
drain and mince. Mince % a small onion, fry lightly in Yz oz. of 
butter, pour over the minced muslirooms, and mix in Yz oz. of 
grated Parmesan cheese and 1 heaped teaspoonful of powdered 
herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram and bay leaf). Soak the crumbs 
of Yz slice of bread in a little milk and work with the above and 2 
yolks of eggs to a smooth paste. Season with salt, pepper and a 
grate of nutmeg. A little minced ham adds a fine flavor. 

108. PANADA. 

The word "panada" is derived from the Latin word "panis," 
which means bread. A panada is a pastry preparation of bread or 
flour, used for mixing with forcemeats (meat chopped fine, highly 
spiced). Bread panada is made by soaking stale bread in water, 
squeezing the water 'out again, and stirring the bread to a paste 
with good stock or milk, over the fire. For a flour panada, stir a 
little butter with water, stock or milk over a fire, salt lightly, and 
then work in enough flour to make a paste. When the panada 
shrinks from the sides of the saucepan, it has been worked enough. 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

pBESH-WATERflSH 





Department 2. 

GOOD, firesh fish, properly cooked, is wholesome and nutritious, and should 
he eaten frequently. But no other article of food is probably so danger- 
ous to take into the stomach as stale or decayed fish. As soon as it has 
lost its first freshness, the most delicate flavor is gone, it begins at once 
to deteriorate and soon becomes decidedly unwholesome. The eyes of stale 
or cold storage fish are sunken and milky around the pupil, and the gills are 
grayish instead of the natural bright red color. See that the eyes are bright, 
the gills red, the fins hard and rigid, and the fleuh firm and free from odor. 
Salt fish shoidd be soaked ten or twelve hours in cold water, fleshy side down. 



109. BOILED FISH. 

The fish should be washed and cleansed thoroughly in cold 
water. Be careful not to bruise or break the flesh, and do not 
leave in the water longer than absolutely necessary, as it destroys 
the flavor. Exception must be made, however, in case of some 
varieties of fresh water fish which have a muddy flavor, like the 
German carp. These fish can be dressed, washed, and left in salt 
and water for two or three hours. Be sure and have the water 
cold. A little vinegar and salt in water whitens and hardens fish. 

In boiling fish a fish kettle with strainer is a convenience, but 
is not absolutely indispensable. Fish can be boiled very nicely 
in a deep dripping pan by wrapping it up in thin cloth and if the 
pan is not deep enough to cover the fish it can be turned over once 
or twice. The time required to boil a medium ^ized fish is from 
twenty to thirty minutes if the water is kept slightly bubbling all 
the time. Fish that is to be broiled whole, should be split down 

39 



40 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 



the back, but fish intended to be boiled, are generally left whole, 
unless of unwieldy size. 




For carving fish do not use a steel knife, but a silver slicer or 
trowel. Do not break the flakes. Short-grained fish, like salmon, 
should not be cut crosswise but lengthwise . See cut. 

110. FRIED FISH. 

All small fish should be fried whole, while larger fish can be 
split down the back and then cut in suitable pieces. Pork fat, lard 
or drippings are generally used, but the first is preferable. After 
the fish is cleaned and washed, sprinkle with salt and let stand 
for half an hour or more, if necessary, but be sure and keep in a 
cold place. Fill the spider or kettle half full of fat, roll the fish 
in flour and put in the hot fat and fry to a nice brown. Serve with 
or without sauce, as desired, but tomato sauce forms a particularly 
fine addition to fried fish. 

All fish steaks, such as cod, halibut, haddock and salmon, 
may be cooked in the same manner, or can be dipped in beaten egg 
and then in cracker crumbs and fried to a brown. Herring, perch, 
brook trout, smelts, etc., are rolled in flour and fried in butter. 

Always drain fried fish when done. A greasy fish is very in- 
digestible and anything but appetizing. 

111. STEWED FISH. 

Any kind of fish are good for stewing, but catfish and bullhead 
are particularly suited to this style of cooking. Skin and cleanse 
the fish, and if small, leave whole, but if large, cut into pieces 
suitable for serving. Shred an onion into a flat bottomed pan 
or kettle, add a lump of butter the size of an egg, let brown 



DEPARTMENT 2 41 

slightly, then lay the fish side by side in the pan, season with 
salt and pepper, cover with water, put a close cover over the whole 
and stew thirty minutes. Take the fish out of the kettle with a 
fish ladle, put on a hot platter, thicken the liquor with a spoonful 
of flour, pour over the fish, and serve. 

113. BROILED FISH. 

All small fish up to 3 pounds, are suitable for broiling, among 
them blue fish, cod, mackerel, trout, whitefish, perch, bass, pike 
and pickerel. Cleanse the fish thoroughly, split down the back, 
wash and wipe dry, cutting off the fins with a pair of shears. 
Rub the wires of the broiler with a piece of bacon or a little 
fat, to prevent sticking, put the fish in the broiler, and turn the 
inside to the fire first. Sprinkle with a little salt, and if the fish 
is of a dry variety, put on a little melted butter from time to time. 
If very thick and there is danger of scorching before it is cooked 
through, place the broiler over a dripping pan and put in the oven ; 
the even heat of the oven will finish cooking the fish without 
destroying that peculiar flavor produced by broiling. Broiled 
fish should be served as soon as cooked. Most people prefer 
broiled fish without sauce, but tomato, caper, anchovy, Tartare 
or Old Zealand sauce are considered desirable. 

113. BAKED FISH. 

Only large fish are usually baked. Dry fish, as pike, should be 
larded. Carefully wash and dry, stuff, if desired, with a stuffing 
made of bread crumbs, chopped onion or parsley, salt and pepper, 
a dash of powdered thyme or sage and a little milk, stock or 
water, tie in the form of the letter S, running the cord through 
head, middle and tail, or in a circle, sewing the tail to the head. 
Th^s arrangement insures even baking. Dredge with pepper, salt 
and flour, and place on top of bacon slices in the pan. Lay a few 
slices of bacon on back unless larded. Bake from fifteen to twenty 
minutes per pound according to thickness, basting frequently. 
If the liquid is scant, add a little hot water. Serve with a brown 
sauce, garnish with lemon slices dipped in chopped parsley. 

A fine dressing for baked fish is made of 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls 



42 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

of sugar, a large pinch of salt, butter size of a walnut, teaspoon of 
mustard, J^ cup of vinegar. Cook slowly and stir constantly. 
When thickened add 1 medium sized sour pickle and 1 small 
onion cut in small dice. Serve on the fish hot. 



114. CREAMED FISH, 

Cut off the heads, tails and fins of any small fish, such as 
perch or trout, put in boiling water slightly salted, and let sim- 
mer for five minutes. Take out the fish and drain. Put it in 
another clean stewpan with as much rich cream as will cover 
the fish, add the grated rind of a small lemon, a little powdered 
mace (outer hull of nutmeg), nutmeg and cayenne pepper. Keep 
the stewpan covered and let the fish simmer for about ten min- 
utes. Dish up and keep hot. Mix smoothly a tablespoon of ar- 
rowroot or cornstarch, the juice of 1 lemon and 2 tablespoons of 
sugar and stir into the cream. Pour the sauce over the fish and 
serve. 

115. BOILED FRESH COD. 

Cleanse the fish and rub with salt, roll tightly in a thin cloth, 
pin and put in the kettle or pan, cover with cold water, add a table- 
spoonful of salt and boil until done. Lift out of the water, un- 
roll carefully, leaving the cloth under the fish ; take the skin off 
the upper side, turn over by slightly raising the cloth and skin 
the other side ; transfer to a platter, pour over it hot melted but- 
ter, garnish with parsley and serve. 

These directions will answer for all kinds of boiled fresh fish 
except salmon, and other fish rich in oils. For these an egg dress- 
ing, mayonnaise or sauce Tartare is more suitable. 

116. BOILED SALT COD, 

Soak the fish over night; place in a kettle and simmer from 
twenty to thirty minutes, arrange the pieces carefully on a platter, 
•pour over it a cream sauce and serve. 



DEPARTMENT 2 43 

117. SALT COD WITH EGGS. 

Pick a pint bowlful of salt cod, put in a stew pan, cover with 
water, set on the back of the stove and as the water becomes salt, 
change ; two or three times will be sufficient. When fresh enough, 
drain off the water and add to the fish a lump of butter the size 
of aii egg. When melted, stir in a tablespoonful of flour and let 
cook, but do not brown ; add 3 cups of milk and let come to a boil, 
then break in carefully as many fresh eggs as there are persons 
to serve. Take the eggs out when the whites are done, place 
on a shallow dish, pour the fish over the eggs and serve. 



118. SALT COD WITH EGGS— NO. 2. 

Prepare the fish as above, but instead of dropping in the 
eggs whole, beat them lightly in a bowl and stir in with a fork ; 
cook three minutes and serve. 



119. FRESH COD WITH OYSTERS. 

Cut the fish in as many slices as there are persons, cook slowly 
in salted water. Boil up in another pot Yz pint each of light meat 
stock and light white wine, with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 slices 
of lemon without any seeds, and salt and pepper to taste. When 
boiling, thicken with bread crumbs, put in 3 or 4 raw oysters for 
each person and let them get hot, but without coming to a boil. 
Pour into a sauceboat, dish the cod and serve with small potatoes 
tossed in butter and chopped parsley. 



120. FRIED COD, INDIAN STYLE. 

Cut fresh codfish in neat slices % to 54 inch thick. Season 
with salt and red pepper, turn in egg and crumbs, fry to a golden 
color ; drain. Serve with East Indian sauce or make a garnish of 
3 gherkins (small cucumbers, used for pickles), 2 tablespoonfuls 
of piccalilli and 1 hard boiled white of egg, all cut in neat stripes ; 
heat this in a little butter, moisten with some fish stock and put 
on hot platter around the fish, with slices of lemon. 



44 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

121. CODFISH BALLS. 

Pare and cut in halves enough raw potatoes to make 1 quart ; 
pick enough salt cod to make 1 pint, freeing it from bones, and 
put in a kettle with the potatoes, the fish on top ; cover with water 
and boil thirty minutes; drain and mash potatoes and fish to- 
gether, season with salt and pepper and a lump of butter the size 
of an tgg, then add 2 well beaten eggs and mix all thoroughly 
together. Shape the balls with a spoon, drop into a kettle of 
hot fat and fry to a light brown; serve hot. If the fish is very 
salf, soak over night, changing the water twice or three times or 
more if necessary. 

122. CODFISH PUFF. 

Take 4 cupfuls of mashed potatoes and 3 of boiled codfish 
minced fine. Mix well and. then add 2 well beaten eggs. Beat 
thoroughly and put in shallow baking-pan, smooth down with 
knife and pour over the top, cupful of sweet cream. Bake in hot 
oven until nice brown. 

The potato, fish and egg may be made into croquettes, rolled in 
flour and fried in hot lard or drippings. If salt cod is used, care 
should be taken to reduce saltiness by soaking in cold water 
changed several times. 

123. ROYAL CODFISH. 

Soak % pound of the best salt codfish over night. Take out 
and wash in fresh water. Then boil until tender and shred. Cut 
2 pounds of fresh codfish into 1 inch cubes (dice shape). Chop 
up 2 onions and 1 leek or green onion, put them in saucepan with 
14 cup of olive oil, and heat until the onions, etc., begin to take a 
slight color ; turn all into a deep keetle and add the cod, salt 'and 
fresh, a bay leaf, a chopped tomato, a saltspoonful of paprika, 4 
small potatoes cut into dice, and a glass of white wine mixed 
with an equal quantity of hot water ; bring all to the boiling point 
and then draw aside to simmer until the potatoes are well cooked, 
say forty-five minutes. Serve in soup plates with a piece of bread 
in each plate. 



DEPARTMENT 2 45 

While salt cod is essential in this preparation nearly all kinds 
of fresh fish may be used. A bruised clove of garlic may be put 
in with the onion, if desired. 

Codfish and cream makes a fine breakfast if cooked properly, 
but if too salty and not prepared right, it is money and time 
thrown away. 

124. CREAM CODFISH. 

Take about i/^ pound good picked and shredded codfish (if not 
already prepared, pick and shred). Soak over night; rinse in the 
morning and place in a pan with piece of butter the size of a 
walnut ; more butter may be used if desired. Add 1 tablespoonful 
of flour, 1 large cup of cream or good rich milk and stir until 
smooth. If changing the color is not objectionable, break 1 raw 
egg and stir with the mixture in the pan. Boil three to five min- 
utes ; if the raw egg is not used, 1 hard boiled egg if cut up in 
small pieces and served on the dish as a garnish, will give an 
appetizing appearance. 

This portion is sufficient for four persons, but if more are to be 
served, the proportion can be increased. If cooked and served 
properly, this dish with corn bread and good coffee makes a pala- 
table and inexpensive breakfast. Codfish is many times spoiled 
by serving too salty and not properly seasoned. 

If the codfish cannot be soaked over night, in case of emer- 
gency, put in cold water, bring to a boil, change the water, bring 
to a boil and repeat a third time or more if necessary to freshen 
the fish, reduce and remove the salt to the proper taste. 



125. BOILED HADDOCK. 

Clean, draw and wash the fish and cut in 3 or 4 parts accord- 
ing to size. Put into boiling, well salted water and remove the 
scum, while boiling from ten to fifteen minutes. Serve with boiled 
potatoes and sauce made of melted butter and French mustard. 
The butter must not boil. Garnish with parsley. 



46 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

126. BAKED HADDOCK. 

Remove the head and fins, cut fish in slices width of 1 inch, 
salt and let stand one hour. Butter baking-pan, put in alter- 
nate layers of pieces of fish and slices of raw potatoes, sprinkle 
on each layer some cut up onion lightly fried in butter, some pep- 
per, and pour over the whole y^ pint of sour cream into which 
3 eggs have been stirred. Bake half an hour or more and serve 
with lettuce or bean salad. 

127. FINNAN HADDIE. 

Smoked haddock is called finnan haddie, and is a favorite with 
many people. It can be fried in plenty of butter in four or five 
minutes. Or it may be boiled tender, picked into flakes with a 
fork and creamed. Use 2 tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour ; 
when creamy, add 1% cups of milk, put on the fire, simmer a few 
minutes, season with pepper and pour over the fish. Fish may 
be laid on toast before adding the cream, or garnished with toast. 

Open kitchen windows and close doors leading to other rooms, 
while cooking this fish, as it gives off an objectionable odor. 

Scotland Style. — One oz. butter, 1 lb. fish, trimmed, 2 gills 
cream ; boil 10 minutes. 

128. BAKED BLUEFISH OR SHAD. 

Bluefish or shad are stuffed with breadcrumbs mixed with 
beaten yolk of &g%, butter, parsley, salt and pepper, and tied with 
a string. Bake from an hour to an hour and a half, the same as a 
chicken, basting frequently; 3 or 3 tomatoes baked in the pan 
with the fish give a fine flavor and a nice garnish. For a sauce, 
take the liquor in the pan, add 1 spoonful of browned flour wet 
with cold water, the juice of 1 lemon, little catsup, and if desired, 
1 glass of sherry. Garnish the fish with the slices of lemon or 
water cresses. 

129. BROILED SHAD. 

Split and wash, dry with a cloth. Season with pepper and 
salt and put on a well greased, hot broiler over a clear, hot fire. 



DEPARTMENT 3 47 

Put an inverted roasting pan as a cover over the shad to keep the 
heat on top of it. Broil for fifteen minutes or more, according to 
thickness. Butter well and serve immediately. 

130. PLANKED SHAD. 

Scale, wash and split the shad, and tack it skin down on a 
hardwood board not less than 1 inch thick. The board should 
be heated before hand and well seasoned, lest the flavor of the 
wood enter into the fish. Put the board over the fire and broil 
until done, basting the fish repeatedly with a little melted butter. 

131. SHAD ROE. 

Put into boiling water, boil gently for twenty minutes, take 
off the fire and drain. Season with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour and fry in the same way in which a fish is fried. 

132. BOILED BLUEFISH OR BASS. 

Clean the fish thoroughly, put in saucepan, just covered -with 
salted water. Bring to a boil, boil five minutes or until one of the 
fins may be pulled out easily. Lift the fish out carefully, dish 
up, garnish with hard boiled eggs and serve with a sauce. 

133. BOILED WHITEFISH, MACKINAC STYLE. 

Dress the fish as for broiling, laying it open. Place it in a fish 
broiler, inside up, and nearly cover with salted water (1 large 
■ tablespoonful of salt for each fish). Cover tight and simmer half 
an hour. When done take out ciarefully, dress with a little butter 
and pepper, garnish with hard boiled eggs and serve with a nice 
fish gravy and plain boiled potatoes. 

134. BAKED WHITEFISH. 

Stufif the fish with a good bread filling, place it in the baking- 
pan and put on it liberally butter rolled in flour. Pour into the 
pan Ys pint of claret, bak« fpr an hour or more, Pish the fish, 



48 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

strain the gravy, work into it quickly another glass of claret, 1 
teaspoonful of browned flour, a pinch of red pepper and a little 
boiling water, if too thick, and pour over the fish. 

135. SPANISH MACKEREL. 

Split the fish along the backbone and take the bone out. 
Wash, dry on a cloth, sprinkle lightly with salt, and broil on a 
well greased broiler over a fire free from gas or smoke, first the 
inner side until it begins to brown, then the skin side. Put on 
hot dish, pour over the fish a sauce made of 3 parts of melted 
butter, 1 part of lemon-juice and pepper, salt to taste, and serve 
hot. 

Other fish sauces may be served with this dish. Many prefer 
fresh mackerel boiled, with a fish sauce. (See the chapter on 
Sauces.) 

136. SALT MACKEREL. 

Clean the salt mackerel thoroughly, then put it to soak in cold 
water over night, changing the water twice, or oftener if desired, 
and in the morning rinse thoroughly in fresh cold water. 

For boiled mackerel wrap each in a clean cloth, well rinsed 
in 2 or 3 hot waters to take out all taste of soap, put on the fire in 
ample water and boil gently for half an hour. Take out carefully, 
unwrap, dish up and pour a little melted butter and cream on each, 
and a dusting of pepper. Or serve with a fish sauce. 

For fried mackerel it should be soaked twenty-four hours, 
changing the water 3 or 4 times. W^ipe dry, roll in flour, and 
fry in butter, very hot. When brown, if desirable add a little 
more on each piece and serve hot. 

137. FRIED SALT MACKEREL. 

Soak a salt mackerel in cold water over night. Be sure only 
salt enough remains to make it palatable. Dry well with a cloth 
and put, flesh side down, in hot butter in a frying pan. When 
brown, turn, adding more butter if required. When well cooked, 
pour % cup of hot rich milk into the pan bring to boil over a 
s!ow fire, simmer 1 or 3 minutes, remove from the fire, put the 



DEPARTMENT 2 49 

fish on a hot platter, pour the sauce over it, garnish with parsley 
or a few capers and serve. If properly cooked makes an inex- 
pensive and delicious breakfast, with cornbread and butter. 



138. HALIBUT. 

Halibut is considered one of the finest sea fish and may be 
served in any of the many styles of cooking fish. Cut up into 
steaks, it may be broiled or fried just like other fish. The skin 
must be taken off in this case with a very sharp knife. Fry the 
fish either egged and crumbed, or not as preferred. If not, serve 
with slices of fried salt pork. 

For boiling select the piece next to the tail, rub it a little with 
salt all over, place it for fifteen minutes in cold water mixed with 
vinegar, then wash and scrape till clean, tie in a cloth, previously 
rinsed in hot water and boil gently, allowing about seven min- 
utes to every pound of fish, in a tightly covered pan. Take out 
carefully- and serve with drawn butter or egg or mustard sauce. 

Halibut left over is excellent for most of the dishes that can be 
made from cold, cooked fish. 



139. BROOK TROUT. 

This wholesome and delicious fish is considered the king of 
fresh water fish for, table use. If fresh and cooked properly will 
be sweet and appetizing. It should always be drawn, washed 
and dried carefully. If broiled, it should be cooked thoroughly 
and served with a little good melted butter, chopped parsley care- 
lessly laid on the dish and a slice or two of lemon. 

One of the most delicate ways of preparing brook trout is to 
boil them. Place in a saucepan, just cover with boiling water, 
add a little salt, and boil about ten minutes. When a fin may be 
pulled out, the fish is ready. Serve with hard boiled eggs or with 
a parsley sauce. Slices of fried bacon are a nice addition. 

If to be fried, split and flour. Fry quickly to a delicate brown 
in hot fat of salt pork or in butter. Do not cut off the heads. Put 
on hot platter, garnish with slices of lemon and water cresses 
and serve immediately. 



50 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

140. BROOK TROUT A LA MEUNIERE. 

Place the fried fish on the hot platter, brush with lemon juice, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley and pour well-browned sizzling 
butter over each fish, frying the parsley. ■ 

141, MARINATED HERRING. 

One-half dozen pickled milt herrings, soak one-half day in 
cold water then take out the milt (soft roe) of the fish, and mash 
up extra fine with a spoon. Cut herring into 1% inch pieces, then 
mix allspice (whole) , black pepper, a few cloves and vinegar, also 
add a few crushed bay leaves. Slice two lemons, lay in with the 
herring, put away covered with the vinegar already prepared and 
let stand for two or three days, when it will be ready to serve. 
Too rich for a full meal ; used only to sharpen the appetite or as 
a relish. If kept in cool place will keep two or three weeks. 

142. FRIED SMELTS. 

Smelts taste best fried a golden color in deep fat, either in a 
frying batter or in egg and crumbs. They must not be drawn, 
or washed, but only wiped with a damp cloth. Do not cut off the 
heads ! " Serve hot, garnished with parsley and lemon. 

143. FRIED EELS. 

Skin and cleanse the eels and cut in 2 inch lengths. Slice % 
pound of fat pork and fry to a crisp ; take out the pork and put 
the eel in the pan. Sprinkle with salt and a very little pepper, 
add % cup of water, cover lightly so that part of the steam 
can escape, put on the fire and cook until the water has all boiled 
away and one side of the eel is fried to a nice brown, then turn 
over carefully and fry the other side. The flavor of an eel if 
cooked properly is similar to that of a cat-fish. 

144. STEWED EEL. 

Skin and wash clean about 4 pounds of eel, cut into 2 inch 
lengths, put into a deep stew pan, cover with water or veal or 



DEPARTMENT 2 51 

chicken stock, stew until tender, and then add i/^ cupful of good 
butter, 1 small chopped onion, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
pepper and salt to taste. Cover and let simmer for a few minutes, 
take out the eel in a hot dish and to the gravy add 2 well beaten 
eggs and the juice of 1 lemon. Do not let it boil or the egg will 
curdle. Pour the gravy over the fish and- serve at once. 

145. EEL IN JELLY. 

Clean a large eel and rub its skin with salt until no longer 
slimy. Cut into pieces about 1% inch long, remove the head and 
fins, cover with warm vinegar for a few minutes and bring to 
a boil in unsalted water. Then pour off the water, add a few 
bay leaves, slices of lemon, sliced carrots, salt, peppercorns and 
parsley, cover with half water, half vinegar, and simmer fifteen 
minutes. Take out the eel, skim off all the fat and strain through 
a sieve. Dissolve 1 oz. of gelatine in a little of the broth, add 
it and boil up once more. Put the pieces of eel and the slices 
of lemon in a crock or mold and pour the broth over them. Put 
on ice two hours or more before wanted. 

146. EEL WITH SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Rub the bottom of a stewpan with butter, put in 1 carrot and 
1 onion cut fine, stir over the fire for five minutes, dredge in a 
little flour, season with salt and pepper and a little nutmeg, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, the same quantity of water, 1 
glass of sherry, 2 pounds of eel washed, dried and cut in pieces 
1 inch or more in length, bring to a boil, cover and let simmer 
one half hour. Take out the fish, put in a strainer, pour hot water 
over it and dry. When cold, egg' and crumb and fry quickly to 
a nice brown. Dish and pour a sauce piquante (such as Tartare) 
over it and serve. 

147. SALMON WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Put 2 salmon steaks in a baking dish, season with pepper and 
salt, rubbing a little into the fish, dot with bits of butter, put more 
butter in the pan, also V^ teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 car- 



52 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

rot cut up and a dash of nutmeg. Bake, basting frequently. 
When done, take out the fish, drain dish, pour caper sauce over 
it and serve. 

148. CREAMED SALMON. 

Melt a lump of butter the size of an egg, stir in 1 table- 
spoonful of flour, and when smooth add 1 pint of milk; heat to 
boiling point and season with salt, pepper, and a little grated 
lemon peel, then add 1 can of salmon from which all skin and 
bones have been removed and picked to pieces, or the same quan- 
tity of cooked salmon, and when the fish is thoroughly heated 
and ready to serve, add the well beaten yolk of 1 egg and remove 
from the fire at once, or it will curdle. 

149. SALMON LOAF. 

Drain the oil oflF 1 can of salmon (the red is best) and set 
aside; remove skin and bone and add 1 cupful of bread crumbs, 
then mix thoroughly and form into a loaf, pressing very firmly 
with the hands. Put in a tin and pour in l^ cupful of water, 
place a lump of butter the size of an egg on top of the loaf, put 
in the oven and bake one half hour, basting frequently with the 
butter and water. Serve with a white cream sauce to which has 
been added the oil drained from the fish. When ready to serve, 
cut off 1 slice of the loaf for each person, pour over it 1 large 
tablespoonful of the sauce, place 2 slices of hard boiled egg on 
top and J4 of a lemon on the plate. Exceptionally fine for 
luncheon. 

150. SALMON CUTLETS. 

Take of a large salmon the middle piece, slit along the back 
in two, take out the bones, remove the skin and cut into neat, 
cutlet-like slices, ^ of an inch thick. Season with pepper and 
salt, turn in egg and bread crumbs twice. Fry on both sides in 
2 ozs. of hot butter over brisk fire, drain on cloth and arrange 
on hot platter. Pour over the cutlets a sauce made by heating 
^ pint piccalilli or mixed pickles, cut in strips, in 1 gill or more 
of espagnole. Any other large fish may be cooked in this way. 



DEPARTMENT 2 53 

151. BOILED SALT WHITEFISH. 

Salt white fish can be boiled the same as salt cod, except 
that it must be pinned in a cloth to prevent its breaking to pieces 
while cooking. 

152. BOILED FLOUNDERS. 

Cleanse, wrap in a cloth, boil for twenty-five minutes and 
serve with melted butter or Old Zealand sauce. 

153. FILLETS OF FLOUNDER. 

With a sharp knife cut the flesh from the bones and cut it into 
6 or 8 pieces of even size. Lay these in a buttered baking dish, 
put on each a little salt, cayenne and lemon juice, cover with a 
buttered paper and bake in the oven from 6 to 10 minutes, accord- 
ing to thickness. Make a roux of 1 teaspoonful each of butter and 
flour over the fire, add 1 cupful each of hot milk and fish stock 
or water, stir over the fire until well blended, then stir in 1 table- 
spoonful each of caper and lemon juice and a saltspoonful of salt 
Serve in sauceboat with baked fish. 

The sauce may be colored green with spinach juice. 

154. BROILED SARDINES. 

Turn the sardines over and over on a clean towel or paper to 
remove the superfluous oil, careful not to break them. Put on a 
fine wire broiler over a clear fire, turning them when brown on 1 
side. Lay on slices of toasted rye or graham bread, lightly but- 
tered, and serve with sections of lemon. 

155, PIKE AND PICKEREL. 

Draw, clean and wipe the fish carefully. Do not cut off the 
head, tail and fins, but bend the fish into a circular form and 
fasten the tail in or to thfe mouth. 

The fish are eqtiafly good boiled or baked. If very large, 
they look fine larded and baked. 

In England a pike is cut into several pieces, boiled in salted 



54 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

water with a little vinegar, butter and spices, and when dished 
is strewn with grated horseradish over which melted butter has 
been poured. Extra fine if prepared properly. 

The liver, of a pike, carefully separated from the bile (bitter 
fluid), is considered a great delicacy. The firm, but delicate, flesh 
of these fish will furnish material for many fancy dishes. 



GERMAN CARP. 

Carp was first introduced into the small lakes and ponds oi the United States 
by the American Fish Commision, about 1870, but it came originally from Asia. 
German carp is of the sucker variety and is considered a vegetarian fish. It 
has no teeth and must suck everything eaten through a small tube. The chief 
objection to the carp is the fact that they multiply so rapidly that they crowd 
the native fish out of the lakes and ponds; also the coarseness of the flesh 
has prevented the fish from finding fovor with Americans. Moreover they are 
destructive to wild celery and other weed roots which furnish food for wild 
ducks and other birds. The meat most always has a strong vegetable taste, 
therefore, if eaten at all, the fish should be allowed to soak in clean, fresh water 
for about a week, which has a tendency to free it from the vegetable flavor. 



156. BOILED GERMAN CARP. 

Take a large carp, remove the scales, draw and wash lightly. 
Cut into about 5 or 8 pieces. Put carrots, celery, parsnips and 
onions, all cut in cubes (dice shape), to boil in 1 quart of water. 
When the vegetables are soft, drain. Into the drained water put 
pepper, cloves, 1 bay leaf, bread crusts, slices of lemon, brown 
ginger snaps, a pint of beer and a pint of weissbeer. In this boil 
the fish gently for twenty to thirty minutes. When done, lift the 
fish out carefully, strain the liquid, add 1 glass of claret and a 
little sugar and serve in a large sauce-boat. For those who 
like carp this is a delicious dish. The head is always reserved for 
the most honored guest at the table in Germany. The large scales 
and blue color give the dish a striking and attractive appearance. 
Pike, pickerel, mountain trout, and eel may be cooked the same 
way. 



DEPARTMENT 2 56 

157. PLANKED WHITE FISH. 

Scale and split the fish, wash in salt water ; lard and flour the 
fish, then place skin side down on hot plank ; fasten with several 
small tacks to hold it' in place. Board should first be sprinkled 
with a little flour and larded or buttered. Plank should be thor- 
oughly dried and seasoned. Gas oven is best, as the fish is cooked 
from the top. Oven should not be too hot. When done sprinkle 
with butter and a little lemon juice. Serve with plank set in china 
or silver dish just large enough to hold it, and place mashed pota- 
toes around fish, with parsley or lettuce as a garnish on outer 
edges. Allow Yi pound of fish to each person to be served. 

Maple planks are most used because extra hard, close-grained 
and white, besides contains no oil, therefore will not impart a 
woody taste to the fish. Obtained at queensware stores. 

158. SCALLOPED FISH. 

Take any cold fresh fish, as trout or whitefish ; what is left from 
a previous meal will do nicely ; pick into flakes and be careful to 
free from all bones, put in the bottoin of an earthen pudding dish 
a layer of cracker crumbs, then a layer of fish, put in a little pep- 
per, salt if necessary, add a tablespoonful of melted butter, then 
another layer of crumbs, then of fish, seasoning and so on Until 
the dish is nearly full. Have a layer of cracker on top and over 
the whole pour enough milk to nearly cover, put a small plate on 
top and bake for thirty or forty minutes in a brisk oven. Teh 
minutes before serving, take off the plate to let it brown. 

159. TIMBALES. 

Take 1 pound white or red uncooked fish, remove skin and 
bone, chop fine and press through coarse sieve. Put pint of milk 
and 2 cupfuls bread crumbs over fire, stir until hot, then add the 
chopped fish. Remove from fire, stir in unbeaten whites of 2 eggs, 
teaspoonful salt and a dust of cayenne pepper ; let cool, then stir 
in well beaten whites of 3 eggs, put in timbale cups, then in a 
baking pan half filled with hot water, cook in hot oven 15 to 30 
minutes. Serve with any suitable sauce. Chicken or meat tim- 
bales made in similar manner — chicken scraped, not cut. (See 
recipe 572, page 182.) Excellent if prepared carefully. 



)6 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

160. FISH PIE. 

Break % pound of cooked cod or haddock into flakes, remove 
ikin and bones, put in a saucepan with y^ oz. of butter, stir a little 
jver the fire, add 1 gill of white sauce and 1 oz. grated Parmesan 
:heese, season and heat. Heat ^ pound of mashed potato with 1 
)z. of butter, stir well, season and bind with % &gg yolks. Line a 
Arell buttered pie dish with a layer of the prepared potatoes about 
j/^-inch tick, put in the fish and another gill of white sauce and 
:over with another layer of potatoes. Smooth the surface, brush 
3ver with beaten egg, sprinkle with grated cheese. Mark the 
top with the point of a knife, place the pie dish in a pan with 
1 little water, bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 



161. BLOATER FRITTERS. 

Split the bloaters (smoked herrings), remove the bones, the 
skin, the heads and tails. Cut each side into 3 or 4 nice pieces with 
I sharp knife. Make a frying batter, mix in some grated cheese 
[^2 oz. for each fish), dip the pieces of fish in the batter and drop 
nto very hot fat. Drain well, sprinkle with grated cheese and 
serve hot. 



162. YARMOUTH CHEESE STRAWS. 

Make the same paste as for cheese straws, cut in strips and cut 
strips of the same size of smoked Jierring (bloaters). Take 1 of 
;ach, kind and twist. When all are twisted together in pairs to 
ook like screws, bake in a hot oven for three minutes. 



163. SARDINE ECLAIRS. 

Carefully skin some sardines and wrap each neatly in a piece of 
juflf paste, previously spread with a little anchovy paste. Brush 
vith ^gg and place on abating tin. Mark a cross on each with the 
joint of a knife and bake in a hot oven ten minutes. Serve either 
lot or cold. 



DEPARTMENT 2 B'T 



164. FISH CHOWDER. 



Haddock, cod and striped bass are best for chowder, but any 
kind of fresh fish may be used. Cut 1 pound of salt pork in slices, 
put in an iron kettle and fry till crisp ; remove the pork, leaving the 
fat, and put in the kettle a layer of fish cut in pieces 1 inch thick 
and 2 inches square ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and a dash of red 
pepiser, put in a layer of broken crackers, some of the fried pork 
chopped fine and a finely sliced onion, then another layer of fish, 
another olPspracker, seasoning and so on. Cover with water,* stew 
until done. »^g-nove the fish, thicken the liquor with rolled 
cracker or flouf^pour over and serve. Sauce or wine can be added 
if desired. 

165. FISH CHOWDER— NO. 2. 

Take any cold, cooked fre^fefish, remove all skin and bones and 
pick into small bits. For 3 cu^s^s of fish, take 3 medium size 
potatoes pared and cut into small^&|^ head of celery cut into l/^ 
lengths, 1 small onion chopped fine, ggji^es of salt pork cut into 
bits and 4 tomatoes peeled and chopped. '^S#<«4U,^^ether, cover 
with water and boil until tender, then stir in %^3§p©a^u^of 
baking soda to neutralize the acid of the tomatoes, add 3 pints 
milk, let come to boiling point and then add the prepared fish, 
thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour stirred smoothly, add a lump 
of butter the size of a small egg and season with salt and pepper. 



166. NEW ENGLAND FISH CHOWDER. 

Take fat pork slices and fry to get 14 cupful of pork fat, then 
take 1 fish 13 inches long, cut into pieces, clean the head well and 
put in the pot, having dried the fish thoroughly in a towel, add 
the pork fat, a layer of fish, then a layer of potatoes (10 or 13 cot 
in slices), then a layer of 6 hard biscuit, known as Pilot'Btead. 
pepper and salt until all are used up, strew over the tc^ I onion 
cut so fine it will almost dissolve in boiling, then cover all with 



*Any soup or chowder of fish or shellfish is improved by 
vising fish stock instead of water. 



58 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

water^ boil gently until the potatoes are cooked ; add 1 cupful of 
milk, and give another good boil. 

167. RHODE ISLAND CODFISH CHOWDER. 

For a family of four to six persons, bone and shred y^ pound 
codfish, cover with 1 quart cold water and heat to nearly boiling 
point. Drain and heat up with 1 quart sweet milk till it begins 
to boil, then drop in 3 or 4 slices white bread and Sfresh^ eggs. 
Stir lightly to break up bread and eggs. Add 1 tabl§^oonful of 
butter, pepper to taste and serve. 

168. FISH PUDDING WITH BROWfj GRAVY. 

Take 2% pounds of either pickerel, hajMock or pike, 1 &%%, yolk 
of another egg, 1 pint milk, i/4 poujra butter', 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour, salt, pepper and mace (outey/skin of nutmeg). Scrape the 
raw fish extra fine, add the eg^ unbeaten, and chop together. 
While chopping sprinkle m/iht flour, a spoonful at a time, to- 
gether with the milk, ami^ason. More milk may be used if neces- 
sary. ButteranjaWt'^th hole in center ; fill with the batter and 
steanLft Wti'lTnirn Make a gravy of 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 
ir, brown and moisten with bouillon. Add cut-up lobster and 
cooked asparagus. Turn the pudding on platter and fill with the 
gravy. 

169. BOILED LOBSTER. 

Lobsters are chosen more by weight than size; the heaviest 
are the best. If fresh, a lobster will be active, and the claws have 
a strong motion when the eyes are pressed with the fingers. The 
male is best for boiling ; the flesh is firmer, and the shell a brighter 
red; it may be readily distinguished from the female; the tail is 
narrower, and the two uppermost fins within the tail are stiflf 
and hard. Put in a kettle of water and add a good sized handful of 
salt ; when the water boils fast plunge in the lobsters alive. Boil 
for about half an hour ; take out and rub the shell with a little oil 
or lard, split the body the whole length with a sharp knife, crack 
the claws, cut off the head, and serve. 




epartment 3. 



LOBSTERS, crabs, shrimps ^^^d other shell-fish are considered wholesome 
food, especially for those who are fortunate enough to enjoy a good diges- 
tion. Oysters, if fresh and sweet, whether eaten raw, stewed or otherwise, 
are refreshing and healthiiil, but, like fish,^they decay rapidly. If the oyster is 
still in the shell and the shell is not firmly closed, or if it has an unnatural 
appearance when opened, it should not be eaten. ~~If^ready out of the shell 
see that the liquor is clear and the oysters firm, plumppitealt^yJooking and 
free from odor. If the diseased oyster, clam or other fish is eatenjtB&^peissii^ 
penetrates the blood rapidly and is almost certain to produce ptomaine 
poisoning or other serious troubles. To enjoy life, eat good, nutritious food. 

170. BROILED LOBSTER. 

Take the meat of the claws and tail ; split if too thick, season 
with salt and pepper, and dust with flour; put in a wire broiler 
and cook over a bright fire ; as it cooks, pour over it a little melted 
butter ; when a nice brown put on a hot dish and serve. Cook 15 
to 30 minutes. Sauce if desired. Garnish with parsley. 

1701^. SHRIMPS OR CRAWFISH BOILED. 

Let two quarts of water come to a boil, add 1 teaspoonful salt, 
then put in live shrimps or crawfish, let boil five or six minutes 
or till red. Serve Mayonnaise dressing, drawn butter or mint 
sauce in a separate dish- Appetizing and easily digested, 

59 



60 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

171. BOILED LOBSTER. 

Put in kettle with water enough to cover and handful salt. 
When water boils plunge in alive ; boil thirty minutes. Take out, 
rub shell with oil or lard, split lengthwise with knife, crack the 
claws, cut off head, and serve. Garnish or serve with sauce. 

172. LOBSTER CURRY. 

Put in a frying pan a lump of butter size of an egg an^^fered 
into it 1 small onion, and fry brown ;'add 1 tablespoonful of flour, 
2 small teaspoonfuls of curry powder, a very little cayenne and a 
pinch of salt ; then add 3 cupfuls of milk or waterj when it boils 
up add the meat of 1 large lobster or 2 cans of Jobster, cut into 
small bits, simmer a few minutes ; pour on ^^ot platter, border 
with rice croquettes and serve. 

173. LOBSTER JPATTIES. 

Take minced lobster, 4 tabj^^poonfuls of French white sauce, 
6 drops of anchovy sauce, Igrnon juice, cayenne to taste. Line the 
patty pans with puff p&§(t, and fill each with flour, rice or peas ; 
cover with past&,-tffush over with egg, and bake to a light color. 
Usg,as-Tri9cn lobster as is required, mince the meat very fine, and 
add the above ingredients ; stir over the fire for five minutes ; 
remove the lids of the patty pans, empty them, fill with the mix- 
ture, and replace the covers. 

174. LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Cook 6 lobsters, each weighing about 2 pounds, in boiling 
salted water for twenty-five minutes ; when cold detach the bodies 
from the tails and cut the latter into slices, put them into a chafing 
dish or frying pan, each piece lying flat, and add hot butter ; sea- 
son with salt and fry lightly on both sides without coloring; 
moisten to their height with good raw cream ; reduce quickly to 
% and then add 3 or 3 spoonfuls of sherry ; take out the pieces of 
lobtser, keep hot. Boil the liquid up once more, then remove from 
fire and thicken with egg yolks and fresh raw cream ; cook without 
boiling, adding a little cayenne and butter. Arrange the pieces in 
a dish and pour the sauce over. 



DEPARTMENT 3 61 

175. SCALLOPS. 

Dry the scallops with a clean cloth, roll in cracker dust, then in 
egg and crumbs mixed with pepper and salt, put in hot pot just 
long enough to take a little color. 

176. HARD-SHELL CRABS. 

Buy the crabs alive, and put head first into boiling water. After 
five minutes add handful of salt and boil thirty minutes. Take out, 
and when cold remove the shells, the stomach, which is just under 
the head, the gills and the intestines. Take out the meat with 
care, breaking it as little as possible. 

This meat is generally used for deviled crabs. The meat of 4 
crabs is considered enough to fill three shells. Bring 1 cupful of 
milk or cream to a boil in a double boiler, add ll^ tablespoonfuls 
of butter rubbed together with 1 tablespoonful of flour, stir until 
smooth and thick. Add the mashed yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, 1 
teaspoonful of salt, half as muth paprica (Hungarian pepper) and 
lemon juice and the meat of 13 crabs. After mixing well, taste to 
see if seasoned highly enough. Add a little mustard or cayenne 
if desired. Fill this mass into 9 well cleaned and dried shells, press 
in firmly, smooth the surface and let cool. Dip in 1 egg beaten 
with a little water, sprinkle the top with white bread crumbs, put 
2 at a time in a frying basket and immerse it in hot fat about a 
minute. If preferred, they may be baked in the hot oven, in which 
case they are not dipped in egg and crumbed, but dotted with but- 
ter. 

177. SOFT-SHELL CRABS. 

Wash carefully, lift up the flap and remove the stomach (sand 
bag), intestines and gills. Dry with a cloth and season with salt 
and pepper. Flour and fry in plenty of good butter, turning them 
over and over, until soft shells are slightly brown. Serve on a hot 
dish with quarters of lemon. If in season, they are delicious if 
fresh and cooked properly. 



62 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

178. PAPRIKA KEDGEREE. 

An excellent breakfast dish. Put 4 ozs. of blanched (scalded) 
rice on the fire with I1/2 ozs. of butter, stir and when the butter has 
disappeared, gradually add enough rich stock to cook the rice. Do 
not let it stick. Salt to taste, add a pinch of nutmeg and enough 
paprika pepper to tint the rice lightly. Keep stirring till the rice 
is cooked. Add from 1 to 2 dozen fresh shrimps, boiled and chop- 
ped with the white of a hard boiled egg, also Yz oz. of grated 
cheese, and stir gently till all is hot again. Pour out on a hot dish, 
garnish with the hard boiled yolk chopped, some whole boiled 
shrimps and watercresses, and serve at once. 

179. STEAMED CLAMS. 

The best way to cook clams. If a regular clam steamer is not 
available, put a colander over a pot of boiling water, so that the 
bubbling water will not enter through the bottom. Put the clams 
in carefully, so that their juice will not run out, when they open. 
Cover closely with an inverted plate and the plate with a folded 
napkin, so that no steam may escape. Eat hot with butter, salt, 
pepper and lemon. 

180. ROASTED CLAMS. 

Open the clams carefully so as not to break the hinge of the 
shell. Take out the clams, remove the brown caps from the necks 
and rinse until entirely free from sand. Put each clam back in its 
shell, place a thin slice of bacon on top, close the sbell and tie 
firmly with string. Put in a hot oven until the string is well 
charred (fifteen to twenty minutes). Remove the strings and 
serve. 

181. DEVILED CLAMS. 

Take large clams out of their shells, rinse free of sand and drop 
into 3 tablespoonfuls of best salad oil mixed with large tableispoon- 
ful each of French mustard and lemon juice, and 1 saltspoonful 
each of paprika (Hungarian pepper) and salt. Leave in the mix- 
ture one or two mintes, then take out and lay separate to set for 



DEPARTMENT 3 63 

five minutes, then turn in beaten egg, roll in cracker dust and fry 
to a golden brown. 

182. CLAM STEW. 

Place the clams on a broiler over the fire. As soon as the shells 
open, take out the clams, saving the juice. Put the clams and 
juice into a stew-pan, add a little hot water and a lump of butter 
into which a little flour has been rubbed. Stir all together, cook 
for five minutes, pour over toast and serve at once. 

183. CLAM CHOWDER. 

Wash 50 dams until clean, put them in a pot with water (from 
a pint to a quart), put on the fire, until the shells open. Cut them 
out of the shells and chop fine, saving all the juice. Strain the 
water in which the clams were cooked through a cloth and keep 
in another dish. Now put a bowlful of salt pork, cut in small dice, 
in the pot, return to fire and try out the pork lightly. When brown 
take out the scraps, and put in a bowlful of chopped onions. Fry 
a delicate yellow, add 1 quart of hot water, the clam-water, the 
pork scraps and the clams. Bring to a boil, add 1 bowlful or more 
of raw potato cut in large cubes (dice shape), and boil until the 
potatoes are cooked, stirring often, lest the chowder burn. Just 
before serving add 1 quart of milk, and 1 cup or so of cracker-dust 
to thicken, and season with black pepper. With the potatoes some 
sliced or canned tomatoes may be put in. 

184. BACHELORS' CLAM FRITTERS. 

Take 35 fresh clams, chop extra fine ; mix with 2 lightly whip- 
ped eggs, 1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 tablespoonful clam juice, 1 of 
sweet milk, 1 of baking powder and sufficient flour to make batter 
stiff enough to drop from spoon. Heat frying pan with fresh lard 
and butter red hot and fry fritters light brown. 



64 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

184^2- OYSTERS, PALACE STYLE. 

Slice 1 dozen mushrooms, butter size of walnut, 1 glass sour 
white wine, let come to a boil ; then put on a slow fire and add two 
dozen oysters and while stirring add 2 gills best cream with 1 
egg beaten into it. Season with Paprika, pepper and salt. Serve 
on toast. Enough for four persons. 



185. BLUE POINTS ON THE SHELL. 

Wash the oysters in the shell, using a small brush if necessary, 
place on top of a hot stove or put in a pan in a hot oven ; about ten 
or fifteen minutes will be sufficient time. Open with an 'oyster 
knife, being careful not to lose any of the liquor and serve on hot 
plates with dry or buttered toast. Oysters or clams steamed and 
served in the same way, are excellent. 

186. OYSTERS ON BLOCK OF ICE. 

Saw a block of ice to fit a platter, square if obtainable. Into 
the middle of the block make a cavity by placing on it a tin basin 
of hot water ; as the ice melts pour off the water and keep renew- 
ing the liquid in the tin Until the cavity will hold as many oysters 
as you wish to serve. The capacity of the cavity can be judged by 
that of the basin. .Drain the oysters in a colander, then put them 
in the ice ; garnish or trim the dish with parsley, celery, cress or 
flowers. Not only a nice way to serve but also ornamental. 



I86I/2. OYSTERS EN BROCHETTE. 
(French-small spit). 

Take 1 dozen each oysters, mushrooms and pieces of bacon 
about 1% inches square and and string alternately on a brochette 
needle. 1 oyster, 1 piece of bacon, 1 mushroom, following this 
order until all are used. Then roll in bread crumbs and broil or 
fry two or three minutes. Serve with Colbert sauce on toast. 



DEPARTMENT 3 65 

187. OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Allow 5 small oysters for each cocktail. Mix 1 tablespoonful 
each of lemon juice and catsup, 1 teaspoonful of grated horserad- 
ish, a pinch of cayenne and 1 of salt, and 5 drops of Tabasco sauce. 
This is enough for 6 cocktails. Have the oysters, sauce and glasses 
ice cold, and serve with a slice of lemon on each cocktail. This 
quantity can be increased or decreased in the same proportions ac- 
cording to the number of persons. 



188. FRIED OYSTERS. 
Put the oysters in a colander, pour water over them, then take 
out and wipe dry. Prepare enough crackers rolled fine, season with 
pepper and salt and put on a platter. Beat 1 egg and dip the oys- 
ters in it, then roll in the cra.cker crumbs and lay them on a plate 
covered with the cracker dust. Fry crisp and brown in hot lard 
or butter (butter preferred), or half of each. Serve at once. 

189. BROILED OYSTERS. 

Dry large selected oysters, place on a fine wire broiler, and 
turn often. Butter the oysters, season with salt and pepper, place 
upon toast, put in the oven for a moment, then serve hot. 

Or one may wrap each oyster into a thin slice of bacon, fasten- 
ing them on skewers. Broil and put each on a small slice of fried 
bread. Garnish with fried parsley and serve hot. 

190. BAKED OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 

Open the oysters, save the liquor. Wash and clean the deep 
shells, wipe them dry and butter the inside. Put in each 1 tea- 
spoonful of Bechamel sauce (See Sauces), 2 drops of lemon juice 
and a little of the oyster liquor, put the oysters in, dust over them 
a little red pepper, put a little more Bechamel on top, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs and put a bit of butter on top. Place the shells on 
a tin, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes or less, slightly col- 
oring the top. Serve very hot on a folded napkin over an extra 
hot platter ; garnish with fresh sprigs of parsley. 



66 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

191. OYSTERS ROASTED IN THE SHELL. 

Wash the shells and wipe them dry, put in a baking pan and 
bake for twenty or twenty-five minutes in a brisk oven. Serve on 
hot plates as soon as taken out, seasoned with butter, pepper and 
salt. 

192. SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put 1 quart of oysters m a colander, wash thoroughly by pour- 
ing cold water over them. Reduce 8 or 10 crackers to powder by 
rolling. Butter an earthen pudding dish, put a layer of cracker 
dust in the bottom of the dish, then a layer of oysters,- sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and pour 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
over them and 3 of milk, then another of cracker and so on until 
the dish is nearly full. Have a layer of the cracker dust on' top 
with small lumps of butter through it. Biake about one half hour. 



193. OYSTER STEW— PLAIN, 

Let 1 pint of water come to a boil, put in 1 quart of oysters, 
butter the size of a walnut, and season with salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of paprika ; let it boil up once more and serve immediately. 

194. DRY STEW. 

A strengthening and delicious dish. Bring 1 dozen or more 
oysters in their own liquor, without any milk or water, to a boil, 
add quickly a very small piece of butter, a little salt and pepper, 
just enough to make the dish palatable, bring to a boil again and 
serve at once. The oysters should be fresh, 

195. MILK STEW. 

Boil 1 quart of good rich milk and 1 pint of water together, add 
1 quart of oysters, lump of butter the size of a walnut, season with 
salt and pepper and let come to a boil once more, then add 2 hand- 
fuls of crushed crackers and serve. All cream is preferable to the 
milk and water. See Dept. I Oyster Soups. 



DEPARTMENT 3 67 

196. PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Put in a porcelain kettle 100 large oysters with the liquor and 
simmer until the edges curl ; take out the oysters and add to the 
liquor a scant pint of vinegar, 10 or a dozen blades of mace, (outer 
hull of nutmeg), a tablespoonful each of peppercorn and cloves; 
let it come to a boil and pour over the oysters. 

197. OYSTER FRICASSEE. 

Put in a stew pan 1 pint of drained oysters, add 1 tablespoonful 
of hot water, salt and pepper, and a dash of cayenne. Boil three 
minutes, shaking the pan. Strain out the oysters and add to the 
liquor 1 quarter of a pint (gill) of cream. Cook 1 tablespoon- 
ful each of butter and flour together, but do not brown. Add 
slowly the oyster liquor and cream ; when boiling hot stir in 1 well 
beaten egg, add the oysters, pour the whole over buttered toast, 
and serve. 

198. OYSTER FRICASSEE— NO. 2. 

Put 34 large oysters with a little of the liquor in a saucepan, 
together with 1 oz. of butter, a pinch of salt, of pepper and a 
grate of nutmeg. Stir over the fire five minutes, strain. Put 1% 
ozs. of butter in another saucepan, stir in ^ oz. of flour, and 
brown; then thin with the liquid strained, and a gill of white 
stock, stir until it boils and let simmer ten minutes. Then add J4 
gill of cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice ; stir 
over the fire a few moments longer, to bind the yolks. Then 
strain through a fine sieve, pour in with the oysterg, heat quickly, 
and do not let boil again. Serve in heated dish with fried bread 
dice and sprigs of parsley. 

199. OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

For a dozen oysters cut 13 disks (round pieces) of toast and 
12 disks of boiled ham, a little larger than the oysters. Top each 
piece of toast with ham and put the oysters on the ham dry, season 
with a little salt and red pepper, put a bit of butter on each and 
bake in a hot oven for about three minutes. Serve hot. 



68 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

200. OYSTER PIE. 

Line a pudding dish with a rich biscuit crust and dredge well 
with flour, put in 1 quart of washed oysters, season with salt and 
pepper, add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and % cup of milk, dredge 
with flour, put on the top crust cutting a small opening for the 
steam to escape. Bake about half an hour. 



201. . OYSTER PATTIES. 

In a double boiler heat 1 cup each of milk and cream with a 
pinch of soda. Just before boiling thicken with a roux made of 1 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour, and stir in 1 quart of oys- 
ters brought near the boiling point in their own liquor and drained. 
Season to taste, pour into patty shells and keep hot until wanted. 



202. CREAMED OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

Melt a lump of butter the size of an egg. Add 1 tablespoonful 
of flour and when stirred smooth, add 1 cupful of sweet milk, and 
keep on the fire and stir, until the cream is smooth and thick. 
Season with salt and pepper. Add 1 pint of good liarge oysters 
and cook until the oysters begin to "curl." Have on a platter 
slices of hot buttered toast, pour the creamed oysters over them 
and serve at once. A good breakfast dish. 



203. OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Sift 2 ozs. of flour in a bowl with a pinch of salt, stir in the 
yolk of 1 egg, add i/^ oz. of soft butter and enough tepid water 
to make the paste smooth. Beat up well with a wooden spoon, 
let it stand while you whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, add 
to batter. Select 12 fat oysters, roll each in a thin slice of nice 
streaky bacon and tie with a string. Dip well in batter, and drop 
one by one into boiling fat. Fry a golden color and drain. 



DEPARTMENT 3 69 

204. CURRIED OYSTERS. 

Mix well 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 scant tablespoon- 
ful of fiour, 2 ozs. of butter and one onion chopped fine. Put on 
the fire in a stewpan, cook gently to a nice brown color, stirring 
continuously. Then add the liquor of 24 oysters or more, and the 
juice of 1 lemon ; boil up quickly and let boil about five minutes. 
Put in the oysters, let come to the boil and serve immediately. 
Rice boiled in water, or steamed, will make a nice addition. 

g05. OYSTER AND BACON ROLLS. 

Excellent for breakfast or lunch. Cut nice thin slices of bacon 
and remove tVaejrind. Select small oysters of even size, put in a 
bowl, sprinkle wrffnemon j-uice jatid toss until the lenion juice 
is well distributed. Then place one oyster on each-slice_of bacon, 
dust lightly with cayenne or paprika pepper according to taste-;- 
roU up and fasten with skewers. Fry in a pan and serve piping 
hot on fried triangles of bread. 

206. OYSTERS A LA WHITE HOUSE. 

Put select oysters in their own liquor on the fire and remove 
as soon as they begin to look plump ; drain, wipe dry with a 
cloth, and place on a large platter turned upside down, about 1 
inch apart. Put a spoonful of Villeroi sauce (See Sauces, Depart- 
ment 7) on each oyster, enough to more than cover, and let cool 
and harden two hours or longer. Then lift off each single oyster 
with a flat knife, pour beaten egg over it, cover with fine bread 
crumbs, and work the Villeroi sauce and crumbs around the un- 
der side of each oyster until entirely covered. When all are done, 
put in. wire basket and fry in hot fat to a nice golden color. 
Serve with Bechamel or Villeroi sauce, diluted with the oyster 
liquor. Garnish with mushrooms or sliced truffles. 

Very palatable and suitable for a noonday lunch party. 



ro 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 




lolii;Sf)&'~'^<^^ 




Department 4. 

THE flesh of animals known as "meat" has been recognized in all ages as 
one of the principal articles of food. According to its chemical composi- 
tion lean meat is a muscle builder, while the accompanying fat acts as 
fuel, feeding the chemical combustion constantly going on in the human 
system. As meats vary considerably in texture and nutritive value, good 
judgment must be used to get the piece best adapted for the special purpose. 
Strong iire for roasting; bright fire for broiling; stew boiled is stew spoiled. 

BEEF. 

Beef like all other meats should be carefully selected, the object 
being to get the piece best adapted for the purpose. First-class 
beefsteak should be tender and juicy, while less expensive cuts, if 
a little less tender, will do nicelyfor a stew or pot-roast. 

Tough meat is fibrous. These fibers usually can be made ten- 
der by slow cooking ; the meat may also be made tender by brush- 
ing it all over with one part of vinegar and two parts of oil or 
melted butter and letting it stand two hours or more. The process 
of boiling permits the application of a very low degree of heat 
(simmering), and this is the reason why tough meat should be 
boiled. 

All meats should be treated so as to keep their juices. For 
this purpose it is all important to subject the meat at first to a very 
high degree of heat so that the coagulating albumen may form a 
crust. This rule holds good for boiling as well as for baking and 
broiling. Nor should a fork be jabbed into the meat at any time 
before or during the cooking, because it allows the juices to escape. 



71 



72 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

It is the steam from the juices that puffs and cooks the inner fibers 
of the meat, especially in frying, roasting and broiling. Salt and 
pepper draw the juices and should not be put on before the proper 
time. 

Beef and other dark meats, as venison, should be served under- 
done or rare, while veal and other white meats must be well 
cooked, but not over done, which makes them dry. No meat, ex- 
cept that to be boiled, should be put in water. Wipe with a clean, 
wet cloth. 

207. ROAST BEEF. 

To prepare for roasting, wipe the meat with a wet; clean towel, 
dredge with flour, put in the pan, on a rack, if possible, pour 1 pint 
of water in the pan, and put in the oven. The oven should be very 
hot for the first ten or fifteen minutes, to hardeij the albumen, 
after that a more moderate heat ^•'.'il! answer. The time required 
to roast beef i? from ten to twenty minutes to the pound, according 
as it is to be rare, medium, or well done. Baste every ten or fif- 
teen minutes. When basting the first time, put salt and pepper 
in the pan, not before. A few minutes before time for serving, re- 
move the meat from the pan, keep hot, and stir into the gravy 1 
tablespoonful of flour mixed with y^ cup of water or more. If 
there is much fat it should be skimmed off before thickening the 
gravy. Serve the roast on a hot platter and the gravy in a hot 
boat. The ribs of a rib roast may be removed before cooking, and 
the meat rolled and tied firmly in the shape of a cylinder. In this 
case more time is required for roasting. The upper part of the 
round is very fine for roasting, but it must be cooked slowly after 
being browned. Yorkshire pudding is a favorite addition to roast 
beef. (See Desserts, Dept. H.) 

208. BEEFSTEAK. 

One of the staple meats. For those who like beefsteak well 
done, it may be cut very thin, but a perfect steak has about an 
inch of red meat between the crusts of brown, each 34 inch thick. 
A steak IV^ inch thick takes at .least ten minutes to broil, a thin 
one less in proportion. Apply the greatest possible heait to each 



DEPARTMENT 4 73 

side of the steak for about ten seconds in order to form a crust that 
will keep in the juice; then reduce the heat, but keep turning the 
steak over every ten or fifteen seconds, especially when broiling 
in a broiler over a bed of coals. Do not season with salt and pep- 
per until done, nor pierce the meat with a fork at any time. When 
cooked put on a hot platter, season with salt and pepper, spread a 
little of the best butter or maitre d'hotel sauce (Dept. 7) on top. 
and serve immediately with a sprig of fresh parsley or water- 
cresses and a slice of lemon as a gai-nish. 

The proper way to cook beefsteak is to broil it before a bank 
of coals, if possible, the broiler standing up and the meat so placed 
in it that the fat will run down along the meat. If this cannot be 
done, place the broiler under the coal. If placed over the coal see 
that the smoke from the dripping fat does not injure the steak. 
The broiler should be hot when the meat is placed in it. 

Steak may be fried on each side in a little of its own fat in a 
very hot frying pan for twenty seconds, then reducing tha heat and 
turning the steak over repeatedly. If one inch thick, cook about 
ten minutes, if 1% inch, cook twelve or fifteen minutes. Bear in 
mind, however, that broiled steak is always preferable. 

There is a difference between a rare and a raw steak or one half 
cooked. If properly cooked rare, the natural juice will ooze out, 
but if simply brown on the outside and raw in the center, the 
steak will be tough and unpalatable. 

209. HAMBURG STEAK. 

Chop some lean beef very fine, carefully removing all that is 
white : chop 1 small onion, mix with the beef, season with salt and 
-pepper, and shape into flat cakes, ^ inch thick or more. Fry in 
hot butter. A fried egg on top or some fried onions may be served 
with the steak. . 

210. TENDERLOIN STEAK, ROTHSCHILD STYLE. 

Cut the slices 2 inches thick, from the middle of a fillet of beef 
and flatten to half the thickness by striking with the flat side of a 
cleaver. For 6 steaks, mix 2 pounds of mashed potatoes, 1 table- 
spoonful of finely-grated horseradish and 1/2 gill of cream in a 



U DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

saucepan over an extra hot fire ; when hot, work in 2 egg yolks, 
season with pepper, salt and grated nutmeg, and remove from the 
fire. Make of this mass as many balls as you have steaks and 
flatten the balls to the same thickness as the steaks, dip them in 
egg and crumbs and fry to a golden color in butter. Drain and 
keep hot. 

Peel and core 1 large sour apple, cut into slices, dip in milk and 
flour, fry in butter. Arrange the slices of prepared potato on a 
hot dish, put the steak, fried rare, on top of each, brush over with 
meat glaze, and top each with a slice of fried apple, 1 fried mush- 
room head on top. Pour some hot tomato sauce around the base, 
and serve hot. 

211. BEEF A LA MODE. 

Lard a piece (3 to 4 pounds) of boneless rump of beef lightly, 
put in a deep bowl, slice % of a large onion, 1 carrot, 1 parsnip, 1 
leek, and add, with 2 bay leaves, 3 cloves, 6 allspice, salt and 
enough vinegar to almost cover the meat. Cover and put in a cool 
place for two days, turning the meat occasionally. Take out the 
meat, drain and tie up, if necessary. Fry the meat a nice brown in 
butter and place on a dish. Stir some flour into the butter, and 
add some of the liquor in which the meat lay two days ; mix well 
and pour into a deep saucepan, add the remaining liquor, a quart 
of stock (or water), a few whole or quartered carrots, 13 very 
small onions (slightly fried if desired) and let all this come to a 
boil. Skim, put in the meat, cover and let simmer from two to 
four hours till tender, adding boiling water as needed. When 
serving, place the meat in a deep dish, skim the fat oil the sauce, 
strain over the meat and group the carrots and onions on top. 
A glass of sherry may be stirred in just before straining. Baked 
macaroni or potato pancakes go well with this dish. 

212. BRAISED BEEP. 

Take a piece of beef from the round, 4 to 6 pounds, with a little 
fat, dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Put in a baking pan on a 
bed of % cupful each of carrot, onion, celery, turnip and salt pork, 
all cut into cubes (dice shape) and mixed, put a few pieces of the 



DEPARTMENT 4 75 

pork on top and place in the hot oven for twenty-five minutes. 
Add 3 cupfuls of stock or water, a sprig of parsley, 5 peppercorns, 
2 cloves, y2 bay-leaf and ^ teasponful of salt, baste the meats well 
■with the gravy and vegetables, cover well with another clean pan, 
and cook in very moderate heat four hours or more. 

213. SAUERBRATEN (GERMAN POT ROAST). 

Take a large piece (about 6 pounds) of the upper rump and 
cover with vinegar and let stand for three or four days. If the vine- 
gar is extra sharp, dilute with water or still better with good beer. 
Put the vinegar to boil with some cloves, allspice, bay-leaves and 
juniper berries, and pour over the meat boiling hot. Place un- 
covered in a cool place, protected from flies. Turn the meat over 
once or twice each day, using two spoons. When wanted, take the 
meat out of the vinegar, jab a thick sharp peg into the meat here 
and there and push into the holes, thick strips of salt pork, two 
or three inches long. Salt lightly and fry in drippings in a narrow 
iron pot until dark yellow all over. Then add a heaping table- 
spoonful of flour to the drippings, and when brown, pour in at 
one side enough boiling water to cover the meat, and put the 
cover on tight. After a few minutes put in 2 small carrots, 3 
onions, 1 oz. of gingerbread (or rye bread or pumpernickel), and, 
if desired, a little of the vinegar. Cover again tight, put weights 
on the cover and cook from two and one-half to three hours, turn- 
ing the meat over every half hour and adding boiling water 
when necessary. When done, lift the meat out, put on a hot dish 
and keep hot. If the gravy is too thin, add a little flour, if too 
thick add milk or water. A cup of cream added half an hour before 
the meat is cooked, is a great improvement. Rub the gravy 
through a sieve, pour a little over the meat and serve the remain- 
der in a sauceboat. 

214. SCOTCH ROLL. 

Take 4 or 5 pounds of the flank of a beef, wipe with a towel, 
and dredge with salt and pepper. Make a dressing of 1 quart of 
bread crumbs, moistened with milk or water, and seasoned with 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 small onion chopped fine, 1 ta;- 



76 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

blespoonful of powdered sage, and pepper and salt to taste, mix 
all well together and spread evenly over the meat. Roll up and 
tie with twine, put in a pan with 1 pint of water and bake for two 
or three hours, rolling over often so as to cook even on all sides. 

215. BEEF STEW. 

Take 2 or 3 pounds of clean beef or the remnants of a roast, 
cut into small pieces, put in a stewpan, cover with water and boil 
until tender, add a small lump of butter and thicken with 1 table- 
spoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little cold water. Some 
prefer a few vegetables boiled with the meat, or a few dumplings 
make a nice addition. 

216. HUNGARIAN BEEF STEW (GOULASH). 

Take the skin and fat out of 1 pound of lean sirloin of rib beef, 
cut the meat, also 2 peeled raw potatoes, and 4 ozs. of bacon 
into dice-shaped pieces. Heat 11^ "ozs. of butter in a saucepan, 
fry 1 small onion, chopped fine ; add the meat, 1% teaspoonful of 
salt and a pinch of paprika pepper, cook ten minutes in hot oven 
or over bright fire. Sprinkle with 1 dessertspoonful of flour, add 
1 gill of brown stock and % wineglass of madeira or sherry, and 
put in 1 teasponful of caraway seeds tied up in a piece of muslin. 
Let simmer slowly. Heat 1% ozs. of butter in a frying pan, add 
the bacon, fry a little ; put the potatoes in and fry to a golden color, 
turning them over and over ; pour off the liquid fat and mix the 
bacon and potatoes in with the meat. Cover up and let simmer 
gently until the potatoes are done, stirring from time to time with 
a fork, so as not to break the potato dice. Remove the caraway 
seeds and serve hot. The caraway seeds and wine may be omit- 
ted. This quantity is for four persons. 

217. BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

'Select 3 pounds of lean rump steak cut 1 inch thick, cut into 
pieces 3 inches long and 1 inch wide, leaving a little fat on each 
piece, and having the fibers run across, not the long way. Put 
in the stewpan with enough boiling water to nearly cover the meat. 



DEPARTMENT 4 77 

put on the lid and let simmer for half an hour. Season with salt 
and pepper, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of 
thyme and 3 sliced onions. Cover and stew until tender. Take 
the meat out and place in a deep pudding-dish. Take a little of 
the gravy and rub smooth with 1 tablespoonful of corn starch, 
stir into the gravy, also 1 tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce 
and a little nutmeg, cover with paste and bake one half hour. Make 
a hole in the crust so the steam may escape while baking. 

To vary this dish, place a layer or two of sliced boiled ham be- 
tween the meat on the pudding dish, or several sliced hard-boiled 
eggs, or both. 

218. BEEFSTEAK TOAST. 

Chop pieces of cold steak very fine, put in a stew pan with a 
small lump of butter and enough water to more than cover. Boil 
twenty minutes, then stir in a well beaten egg. Season with salt 
and pepper, pour over toasted bread and serve hot. 

219, FILLET OF BEEF. 

The fillet is the entire tenderloin, weighing about five pounds. 
If the tenderloin is too expensive, a piece of the "roll" (the thick 
part on the ribs, separated from the bones) may be substituted. 
With a larding-needle and strips of salt pork lard the meat thor- 
oughly (see cut under Larding). Line the bottom of the pan with 
thin slices of salt pork, top this with sliced onion, carrot, turnip 
and celery, heat a few minutes, put the meat in, baste slightly witli 
melted fat from the pan, and put in the hot oven. After five min- 
utes pour 1 cup of good hot stock into the pan, add Vz teaspoonful 
of salt, some pepper, a sprig of parsley, 1 bay-leaf and 2 cloves. 
Baste every five minutes. Roast half an hour if to be rare ; if well 
done, fifteen minutes more. If the top or the strips of lard get 
too brown, butter a piece of paper on both sides and place over 
the meat. Serve with a nice gravy in which a can of mushrooms 
has been heated, not boiled. Or, the gravy may be flavored with 
a glass of madeira or sherry. 

Fillet of Beef Larded. Sirloin is sometimes used. Trim ofif 
fat, tough skin, etc., and skewer into round shape (fasten with 



78 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

wooden pin), lard with salt pork. Dredge well with salt, pepper 
and flour and put without water in small pan. Put in hot oven 
thirty minutes; in lower part fifteen, then on upper grate. Serve 
with mushroom sauce or potato balls. 

220. CORNED BEEF. 

Good corned beef properly cooked is delicious and wholesome, 
but only a small part of the corned beef sold is good. Select a 
piece from the round with a layer of fat, put it into enough cold 
water to cover it and let it come to the boiling point slowly. Let 
simmer half an hour for each pound, putting in 1 carrot, 1 tur- 
nip and 1 onion. The slices of good corned beef when cooked, 
should be of a healthy, red color with a dark center. If to be eaten 
cold, cook the day before and let stand in the liquid till wanted. 
If a weight is put on the meat in the liquor, it will be easier to cut 
nice slices. Turn a plate upside down on the meat and on the plate 
place a bowl holding a flat-iron or brick. 

221. BEEF HASH. 

Chop or cut lean beef and an equal or larger quantity of cold 
boiled potatoes to pieces the size of peas. Mix thoroughly, put in 
a frying pan with a little water, season to taste and serve as soon 
as heated through. Onions give it a fine flavor. 

222. BOILED BEEF TONGUE. 

Wash the tongue thoroughly, cover with boiling, salted water 
and boil one hour and a half with a bunch of herbs. Add boiling 
water to keep the tongue covered. When tender, take out, plunge 
in extra cold water for a moment and peel. If not to be used at 
once, do not peel until wanted, but return to the liquid in which it 
was cooked and let cool. If served cold, it may be covered with a 
meat glaze colored red, after being peeled. If served hot, pour 
over it a white sauce or piquante sauce. Spinach or dandelion 
greens goes well with tongue. 

A smoked tongue must be soaked over night, put on the fire in 
cold water and allowed to simmer four hours or more, until tender. 



DEPARTMENT 4 79 

223. BAKED BEEF TONGUE (AU GRATIN). 

Slice the boiled tongue, put in buttered baking-dish, spread 
over with a mixture of brown sauce, fresh bread crumbs, chopped 
onion, parsley and mushrooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs and fresh 
butter. Bake in quick oven and serve in baking-dish. 

224. CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE. 

Take about 5 pounds corned beef, boil 2 to 2^^ hours or until 
tender ; take out and skim fat off liquor ; if too salty, pour off and 
add fresh water, let stand in liquor until' time to put in vege- 
tables (one-half hour before dinner) ; put in the boiling liquor, 1 
good sized cabbage cut in quarters, 6 pared and sliced turnips, 8 
medium sized whole potatoes (peeled), when done take out the 
vegetables, drain cabbage in colander, press out the water, serve 
meat and vegetables separately. Meat and vegetables may be 
boiled together if preferred. Enough for six persons. 

225. BEEF KIDNEY. 

Cut the kidney into thin slices, flour them, and fry to a nice 
brown. When done, make a gravy in the pan by pouring away 
the fat, putting in a small piece of butter, 14 pint of boiling water, 
pepper and salt, and 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Let 
the gravy just boil up, pour over the kidney and serve. 

226. KIDNEYS STEWED. 

Take 1 pound beef kidney, slice, and dip in mixture of chopped 
parsley, flour, pepper and salt. Put in saucepan with 1 minced 
Spanish onion, 1 dozen peeled and stalked mushrooms, 1 teacup- 
ful water and 1 teaspoonful of some favorite relish ; simmer twen- 
ty minutes. Place mushrooms and kidney on hot dish, thicken 
the sauce and pour over and garnish with fried sippets (tri- 
angular pieces of fried bread) . 

227. STEWED OX-TAILS. 

For 2 ox-tails, take 1 onion, 3 cloves, 1 blade of mace, (outer 



iO DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

lull of nutmeg), % teaspoonful of whole black pepper, ^ tea- 
;poonful of allspice, ^^ teaspoonful of salt, a small bouquet of 
lerbs, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
uice, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Divide the tails at 
;he joints, wash and put into a stewpan with sufficient water to 
;over, set on the fire ; when the water boils remove the scum, and 
idd the onion cut into rings, the spice, seasoning and herbs. Cover 
he stewpan closely, and let simmer very gently until tender, about 
wo hours and a half. Take out, make a thickening of butter and 
lour, add it to the gravy, and let boil for 1 quarter of an hour, 
strain through a sieve into a saucepan, put back the tails, add the 
emon juice and ketchup ; let the whole just boil up, and serve, 
jarnish with three-cornered pieces of toasted bread. 

228. CREAMED BEEF. 

Melt a lump of butter the size of an egg in a frying pan, and 
:ry to a nice brown cold roast beef sliced thin or some chipped 
Iried beef. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour and finally enough milk 
)r water to make a nice cream. May be served on toast. 

229. SPICED BEEF. 

Four pounds of round of beef chopped fine ; remove all the fat ; 
idd 3 dozen small crackers rolled fine, 4 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 
;ablespoonful of ground mace (outer hull of nutmeg), 2 table- 
ipoonfuls of black pepper, 1 tablespoonful melted butter ; mix well 
ind put in tin pan just large enough to hold it, packing well 
)aste with butter and water, and bake two hours in a slow oven. 

230. BEEF CAKES. 

Underdone cold roast beef is best; to each pound of cold meat 
illow % pound of bacon or ham ; seasoning to taste, with pepper 
md salt, 1 small bunch of minced savory herbs, 1 or 2 eggs. Mince 
he beef very finely, add to it the bacon, which must also be chop- 
>ed very small, and mix well together. Season, stir in the herbs, 
md bind with 1 or 2 eggs. Form small square cakes, about ^ 



DEPARTMENT 4 81 

inch thick, fry in hot drippings, and serve with good gravy poured 
round the cakes. 

231. BEEF LOAF. 
Chop 1^ pounds of lean beef, % pound of lean pork and 2 
onions, mix w^ell with 1 beaten egg, 1 cupful of cracker crumbs 
and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Form in a loaf, roll in 
flour, put a little butter here and there on the top and bake about 
forty minutes. 

232. FILIPINO BEEF. 

One and one-half pounds round Steak, % pound pork or bacon, 
1 onion, 2 green peppers, all chopped fine. Mix thoroughly with 
1 cup bread crumbs, salt to taste. Knead five minutes, form into 
a roll and place in baking pan. Put strips of bacon on top. Pour 
over all 1 can of tomatoes. Bake slowly one and one-half hours. 
Remove meat, add a little hot water to the tomato juice season 
and- thicken. Pour over the meat. (Very nice cold.) 

VEAL. 

Veal usually commands a high price, although it contains less 
nourishment than other meats. It has very little flavor of its own 
and requires high seasoning. The calf should be from eight to ten 
weeks old when slaughtered, if younger the flesh is flabby and 
unwholesome, if older it becomes tough. A bluish tinge is a sure 
sign that the veal is too young. Good veal is firm and pink ; with 
hard bones. It should be perfectly fresh when bought, and must 
be thoroughly cooked. 

The best piece of the leg, cut from the upper part and about 
five inches thick, is the fillet of veal. The choicest cut of this fillet 
is called the fricandeau in French. The so-called Vienna' Schnit- 
zel is cut from the fillet. 

233. ROAST LEG OF VEAL. 

A leg of veal should be two days old in summer and four days 
in winter. If it must be kept for a longer time, cover entirely with 
buttermilk, and after two days renew the milk. 



82 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Put in the pan 1 cupful of butter, or part fat of a veal kidney, 
and a few slices of salt pork, let boil up and place the meat, round 
side up, well rubbed with fine salt, in a hot oven, reduce the heat 
after twenty minutes and roast one hour and a half. A small 
leg only one hour and a quarter. Baste every ten minutes at 
least. If the gravy gets too brown or too scant, add more but- 
ter in small quantities. Do not stick a fork, into the meat at any 
time. 

When removed from the pan, stir in from 1 to 3 cups of good, 
sweet cream, cook until dark yellow, stir in enough boiling water 
to thin the gravy sufficiently, and strain through a fine sieve. In- 
stead of using cream, % tablespoonful of flour may be put into the 
pan half an hour before the roast is done. In this case thin the 
gravy with stock or water and 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce. 

234. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL. 

A loin of veal is generally larded and takes from one to one 
and a half hours to roast. Proceed as in the preceding recipe. A 
fillet or fircandeau of veal is cooked in the same way, but gener- 
ally in a closed pan, with enough stock or water to stand 1% inches 
deep in the pan, and frequent basting, allowing twenty minutes to 
the pound. 

235. FRICASSEE OF VEAL. 

Cut a portion of the breast, neck or fillet of veal into cubes, 
(disk shape), taking out all skin, sinews and bones ; stew in white 
sauce, garnish with boiled crayfish tails, or scallops, or parboiled 
small oysters, asparagus tips, sprigs of cauliflower and crescents 
of puff-paste. 

This fricassee can be cooked and served in many different 
ways by omitting one or the other ingredients and by adding slices 
of lemons, or nutmeg, or a glass of white wine, and especially by 
garnishing with some kind of forcemeat (chopped meat highly sea- 
soned) balls. 



DEPARTMENT 4 83 

236. STUFFED BREAST OF VEAL, BRAISED. 

Bone a small breast of veal and prepare for stuffing. Mix ^' 
pound soft bread crumbs, 6 ounces sausage meat, 2 chopped wal- 
nuts, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind, 1 teaspoonful of thyme, 
basil and marjoram (powdered), 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Beat 1 egg well and add, with enough 
milk or stock to bind. Melt 2 ounces of butter and add. Put the 
stuffing in, sew up. Put 2 ozs. of drippings in a braising-pan, 
large enough to hold the meat. When melted, add a sliced carrot, 
turnip and onion with % cup of butter in a stewpan, fry slightly, 
place the breast on top, brown both sides over a quick fire, add a 
little stock and finish cooking in the oven, basting frequently. 
When done, remove the string, cut in thin slices and serve with a 
thick brown gravy or a tomato sauce. 

237. VEAL LOAF. 

Chop fine 3 or 4 pounds of cold roast or boiled veal, leg or loin 
preferred, mix in 6 rolled crackers, 2 eggs, 1 lump of butter the 
size of an egg, season with salt and pepper ; mix all well together, 
and shape into a loaf, covering the outside with cracker dust. 
Bake forty-five minutes. Serve cold. (See page 323.) 

238. VEAL HEART CAKE. 

Chop. fine li/^ pounds veal heart with % pound pork; add i/^ 
cupful breadcrumbs, li/^ teaspoonfuls salt, % teaspoonful black 
pepper, % teaspoonful cayenne, and a few cloves. Mix well to- 
gether with 1 raw egg; put into plain mold; steam for 2 hours; 
then dry in slow oven ; let cool, and then turn out of mold. Gar- 
nish with slices of lemon and parsley or with aspic (combination 
jelly of meats, eggs and vegetables). Fine for luncheon. .^ 

239. VEAL CUTLET BROILED. 

Season the cutlet with salt and pepper, put in a double wire 
broiler and cook over a quick fire ; baste several times with a little 
good melted butter, and serve hot. 



84 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

240. VEAL CUTLET FRIED. 

Season the cutlet with salt and pepper, and let stand a few 
minutes before frying ; dip in beaten egg and then in cracker dust ; 
fry in hot butter or pork fat ; cook slowly until well done. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

241. VIENNA SCHNITZEL. 

Cut steaks from the fillet of a leg of veal, % inch thick, rub 
with fine salt and pepper, turn in flour, then in egg and crumbs 
and fry a delicate brown in ample butter. Arrange on a dish, pour 
a little lemon juice over them and garnish with slices of lemon, a 
few capers and a sprig of parsley. 

Another garnishing consists of stripes of sardelles laid in the 
form of a lattice (trellis), and a fried or poached &gg. A Hol- 
stein Schnitzel is cooked in the same way, but the gravy in the 
pan is thickened with a roux (a thickening of flour and melted but- 
ter rubbed together), then 1 tablespoonful of madeira or sherry 
wine is added, % teaspoonful of lemon juice, a few drops of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, and a few sliced truffles and mushrooms. The 
gravy is poured over the steaks. 

Serve with carrots and peas for a vegetable dish. 

242. PLAIN CURRY. 

Lamb or veal cut in small pieces, 4 onions and 2 apples cut up 
fine and fried in butter; 1 tablespoon- curry, enough stock or milk 
to make the quantity of gravy desired, boil for twenty minutes be- 
fore putting in meat. Then put the lamb or veal in and stir slowly 
on back of stove about two hours. 

243. VEAL CURRY. 

Cut 2 pounds of lean veal in pieces, put in a pan with a piece 
of butter, size of an egg, and let it fry to a nice brown ; then mix 
in 1 large tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of curry powder, 
salt and pepper ; when all are well mixed, add 1 pint of hot water, 
and let it boil about, twenty minutes, skimming off all fat. Rice 
croquettes are nice served with this dish. 



DEPARTMENT 4 85 

244. BROILED KIDNEYS. 

Split veal kidneys lengthwise, removing all fat, and broil over 
clear fire for twelve or fifteen minutes ; baste with butter while 
oiling, season with salt, pepper, butter and a little chopped pars- 
y. Serve hot. 

245. STEWED KIDNEYS. 

Remove all fat from a veal kidney and wash clean; put in a 
ew pan, cover with cold water and boil for one hour. Put % a 
ipful of butter in a frying pan with 1 small onion minced fine ; 
y slightly and put in the kidneys, turning over until a nice 
own ; then add 1 tablespoonful of flour, stir in thoroughly, and 
Id enough of the hot stock to make a thick sauce, add % a can 
mushrooms, season with salt, pepper, 1 tablesponful of Worces- 
rshire sauce. Serve on toast. 

246. WHITE VEAL STEW. 

Cut 2 pounds of veal into cubes (disk shape), put in sauce- 
n, just cover with cold water, add a pinch of salt and the juice 
^ a lemon ; bring to a boil and remove the scum. Put in % a 
ass of white wine, a bouquet of herbs and 10 small onions; let 
nmer an hour. Pour ofif the stock ; remove the bouquet. Melt 
ozs. of butter in small saucepan, stir in 1 oz. of flour, and keep 
irring over the fire a few minutes, but do not allow to turn 
own ; stir in gradually 1 pint of stock, boil up, skim, add 12 
ushrooms cut in quarters or slices, cook three minutes. Take 
F the fire, add 1 tablespoonful of cream and 3 egg yolks, strain 
er the meat, reheat without letting it boil again, season to taste, 
d serve hot. 

247. VEAL AND HAM PIE. 

Take V/2 pounds of best lean veal arid % pound of ham, boiled 

only smoked, slice thin and put in layers in a pie-dish with a 

IV slices of good streaky bacon, covering each layer with slices 

hard boiled eggs, and seasoning with very little salt, pepper and 



86 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

some lemon-rind, chopped parsley, and then a grate of nutmeg. 
Add J^ gill of stock or water. Line the edge of the pie-dish with 
a strip of paste, brush it with beaten egg and put the cover of 
paste on. Trim off the edges, make hole in the center, brush 
over with beaten egg, put a few fanciful shapes of paste around 
the hole as a rosette, brush with egg, and bake from one and one- 
half to one and three-fourths hours in moderate oven. Serve hot. 
— If to be eaten cold, pour ^ oz. of gelatine dissolved into the pie, 
as it comes out of the oven. 

248. FRIED CALF'S LIVER. 

Buy the liver cut in slices Yz inch thick, lay in boiling water 
three or four minutes, a few at a time, then dry with a cloth and 
flour well. Season with, salt and pepper. Try out as many slices 
of bacon as there are slices of liver, or more, until nearly crisp, 
remove the pieces of bacon and keep hot. Fry the liver on both 
sides to a nice brown, but not too long. The fire should be hot for 
the bacon, and moderate for the liver. Arrange the liver on a hot 
platter and the bacon on top. Serve with boiled milk rice. 

249. STEWED CALF'S LIVER. 

The liver should be cut in slices, and the slices into small 
squares. Make a brown roux of 2 tablespoonfuls each of flour and 
butter, and stir in 2 cups of light stock or water. Stir until smooth 
and boiling. Add the liver and 1 teaspoonful of onion juice, and 
let simmer for one hour. Season with pepper and salt and serve 
hot. 

250, BRAISED CALF'S LIVER. 

Soak fresh liver twenty minutes in cold water, drain and wipe 
with cloth. Cut gashes into the liver and insert a number of 
small, thin strips of bacon (See Larding). Put 1 onion, 1 carrot, 
1 bay-leaf, some bacon and. herbs in a saucepan with 1% ozs. of 
butter. Fry the vegetables a golden color, put in the liver, let it 
brown gently, pour off the fat, add ,% pint of brown sauce and 1 
gill of good stock. Season with pepper and salt and let simmer 
for one hour. Add 1 glass of port wine, the juice of % a lemon 



DEPARTMENT 4 87 

!ind Y2 a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Boil up, take out 
the liver, reduce the liquid as much as desired, strain and skim 
off the fat. Place the liver on a dish, pour the strained sauce over 
it and serve. 

251. HUNGARIAN VEAL STEW (GOULASH). 

Cut 1 pound of veal, 2 large, peeled raw potatoes and 4 ozs. of 
bacon into pieces. Fry 1 sliced onion lightly in 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, add the meat, % teaspoonful of salt and 1 pinch of paprika 
(Hungarian pepper), cook ten minutes over hot fire. Then sprin- 
kle with 1 dessertspoonful of flour, add 1 gill of brown stock or 
water. Powder a piece of bay-leaf the size of a dime, 1 pinch of 
caraway seed and 1 of majoram and add. Let simmer slowly. 
Heat 1 tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan, fry the bacon in 
this lightly, add the potatoes and fry to a golden brown, turning 
over and over. Pour off the liquid fat and mix the bacon and po- 
tatoes in with the meat. Cover and let simmer until the potatoes 
are done, carefully stirring from time to time with a fork so as 
not to break the pieces of potato. 

PORK. 

The word "pork" is derived from the Latin word "porcus" and 
means "hog." The hog, like other domestic animals will always 
be one of the staples of food, but it is not considered as wholesome 
as many other meats. Fresh pork should be eaten in the cold sea- 
son only, and invariably must be thoroughly cooked. In many 
cases, the cause of cancer has been traced to raw or underdone 
pork. The slightest disagreeable odor or taste is a proof that the 
meat is unfit to be eaten. Well-cured ham or bacon is a fine ac- 
companiment for eggs, and bacon especially for liver, small birds 
and roasts. 

252. ROAST PORK. 

Take 5 or 6 pounds of the loin, wash clean and dredge with 
salt and pepper, a little flour, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered sage ; 
put in a pan with 1 teacupful of water and roast two hours. If the 
skin is left on, it should be scored before cooking, so as to enable 
the carver to cut nice slices. 



88 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

253. ROAST LEG OF PORK. 

Select a small leg of pork, and score the skin across in narrow 
strips, about 14 '"ch apart. Cut a slit in the knuckle, loosen the 
skin, and fill it with a sage and onion stuffing. Brush the joint 
over with a little salad oil (this makes the crackling crisper, and 
a better color), and put down to a bright, clear fire, not too near, 
as that will cause the skin to blister. Baste well, serve with a 
little gravy made in the dripping pan, and with apple sauce. 

254. ROAST SUCKLING PIG. 

A pig from three to six weeks old is best for roasting. Leave 
the pig whole and wash inside and out, chop the liver and mix 
with equal quantities of bread crumbs and mashed potatoes, add 
2 chopped onions, a little parsley, salt and pepper to taste, mix 
into a paste with 3 beaten eggs, 1 lump of butter and about 1 tea- 
cupful of milk, stuff the pig with this dressing, sew it up, put in 
a pan and roast from one and a half to two hours, basting fre- 
quently. Make a gravy with a glass of wine, some of the stuffing, 
and the drippings. When the pig is done, put on a platter, put a 
lemon or apple in its mouth, and serve with the sauce. One of 
the finest dishes, if cooked and seasoned properly. 

255. PORK CHOPS. 

Cut the cutlets from a loin or foreloin of pork ; trim the same as 
mutton cutlets, and scrape the top part of the bone. Brush over 
with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs, with which have been 
mixed minced sage and a seasoning of pepper and salt; drop a 
little clarified butter on them, and press the crumbs well down. 
When the lard in the pan is hot, lay in the cutlets, and fry a light 
brown on both sides. Take out, drain on a clean cloth and serve 
with any sauce that may be preferred, such as tomato sauce, sauce 
piquante, or pickled gherkins, and mashed potatoes. 

256. BROILED PORK CHOPS. 

Trim the chops nicely, leaving about % inch of fat all around. 
Put in a deep dish, season with pepper, salt and chopped parsley, 



DEPARTMENT 4 89 

pour over them some sweet oil (about 1 tablespoonful for 4 chops) , 
let soak one half hour, turning frequently. Drain, broil over clear 
fire until well done, fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve with Robert 
sauce. (See Sauces, Dept. 7.) 

257. PICKLED PORK CHOPS. 

Drain the pickled chops well, fry in butter, arrange around a 
bed of cooked rice, pour over the chops a brown sauce and garnish 
with sliced tomatoes. 

258. PORK CHOPS "SOUTHERN STYLE." 

Cut chops about 1 inch thick, parboil and roll in cracker 
crumbs, then in bgaten egg and again in crumbs. Season with 
salt and pepper, lay in the baking pan, place small pieces of but- 
ter on each chop, put on the cover and bake until brown. Scald 
1 pint of good, sweet milk, stir into a cream made '&p of 1 table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour, add 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley and a little grated nutmeg. Pour over the chops just be- 
fore serving. 

259. KASSELER RIBS. 

Soak over night in cold water, 3 or 4 pounds of salted, smoked 
pork ribs, put on the fire in fresh, hot water, without any spice 
or seasoning, and boil until tender (about two hours). If pre- 
ferred, put in the oven with a little butter, water and spices, the 
same as roast pork, and bake about two hours. Serve with sfewed 
kale, (green, curly cabbage) red cabbage or sauerkraut and 
browned potatoes. 

260. BAKED FRESH SPARERIBS. 

Sew 2 pieces of fresh spareribs together so as to form a pouch, 
fill with quartered apples or a turkey dressing, sew up entirely and 
bake one hour, basting frequently with half butter, half salt pork. 
Put a little water in the pan, whenever necessary. Turn the meat 
over so as to brown both sides. 



90 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

261. BAKED FRESH SPARERIBS— NO. 2. 

Rub well with salt, pepper and flour, put on a rack in the 
dripping pan with 2 cups of boiling water, and place in the hot 
oven for two hours, basting frequently. When well browned, 
take out, pour all the fat off the gravy, work into the gravy 1 cup 
of hot water and 1 tablespoonful of flour. Serve with boiled pota- 
toes, mashed turnips, stewed onions, or with baked apples. 

262. BOILED FRESH SPARERIBS. 

Boil one half hour with sauerkraut, adding a little water, and, 
if necessary, a little vinegar and salt. 



263. BOILED SALT SPARERIBS. 

Boil the spareribs one hour, adding the sauerkraut or cabbage 
then boil half an hour longer. 



264. BAKED PORK TENDERLOIN. 

Split the tenderloin through lengthwise; make a stufling of 
bread, seasoned with salt, pepper and some kind of sweet herb, 
stuff the tenderloin and tie a string around it to keep the filling in, 
add 1 cupful of water and bake from forty to fifty minutes ; baste 
frequently. 

265. BROILED PORK TENDERLOIN. 

Split the tenderloin lengthwise, or cut crosswise and flatten; 
put on a wire broiler and cook over a clear fire ; when done put 
in a pan with a lump of butter and let the juice of the meat and the 
butter come to a boil. This makes a delicious gravy ; season with 
salt and pepper and serve hot. 



SALT PORK. 

Cut into slices, put in a pan, pour on cold water and let come 
to a boil. Unless the pork is extra salty will freshen sufficiently. 



DEPARTMENT 4 91 

Take out the meat, throw the water away, roll the pork in flour, 
and fry to a nice brown. Serve with cream gravy. 

267. SALT PORK— NO. 2. 

Freshen as above, make a batter of 1 beaten egg, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of milk and 1 of flour, well beaten together, put a little fat 
in the frying pan, dip the pork in the batter, fry slowly and serve 
hot. 

268. SALT PORK— NO. 3. 

Cut the pork in slices and soak for twelve hours in equal quan- 
tities of milk and water; then fry carefully, as it is liable to 
scorch. When done, take out the meat, pour off part of the fat, 
and into the remainder pour 1 cupful of cream, let cook two or 
three minutes, pour over the pork and serve. 



BOILED HAM. 

The hind leg of a pig is cured with salt and saltpeter, with 
addition, occasionally, of sugar and soda ; then dried or smoked. 
The seasoning and flavoring substances used vary as to kinds 
and proportions in different localities, which accounts for the 
many brands of ham in the market. 

It is always best to soak a ham ten or twelve hours, or long 
enough to extract the superflous salt, changing the water once 
or twice, before cooking it. When soaked enough, scrape and 
trim, put in pot large enough to cover with water, bring to boil 
slowly and cook gently for four or five hours, according to size. 
Cool in its own liquor. 

270. BAKED HAM. 

A ham for baking should be well soaked; let remain in the 
water twelve hours. Wipe dry, trim away any rusty places under- 
neath, and cover with a simple crust, taking care that it is of 
sufficient thickness all over to keep the gravy in. Place in a 
moderately-heated oven, and bake for nearly four hours. Take 



92 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

off the crust, skin, cover with bread crumbs, and" garnish the 
knuckle with a paper frill. This method of cooking ham is con- 
sidered superior to boiling. 

271. FRIED BACON. 

Bacon should be cut extra thin and the frying pan should be 
hot when the bacon is put in. As soon as the bacon has become 
clear, turn each slice over ; if to be crisp, tilt the pan a little so the 
melted fat will flow away from the slices. If not wanted crisp and 
dry, turn the slices over before they become clear, and remove 
from the fire, before entirely tried out. 

272. BOILED BACON. 

As bacon is frequently excessively salt, soak in warm water 
for one or two hours previous to dressing ; then pare off the rusty 
parts, and scrape under-side and rind as clean as possible. Put 
into a saucepan of cold water, let come gradually to a boil, and 
as fast as the scum rises to the surface of the water, remove it. 
Let simmer very gently until thoroughly done; then take up, 
strip off the skin, and sprinkk over the bacon a few bread-rasp- 
ings (crumbs), and garnish with tufts of cauliflower or Brussels 
sprouts. When served alone, young string beans or green peas 
are the usual accompaniments. 

273. BROILED PORK SAUSAGES. 

Take off the skin and flatten the link to half its thickness, put 
in a wire broiler and broil until done over a clear fire; arrange 
on a platter, put a small lump of butter on each piece, place in 
the oven for a few moments, and serve. 

274. FRIED PORK SAUSAGES. 

Prick the sausages with a fork (this prevents bursting), and 
put them into a frying pan with a small piece of butter. Keep 
the pan moving about, and turn the sausages three or four times. 
In from ten to twelve minutes they will be sufficiently cooked, 
unless extra large, when a little more time should be given. 



DEPARTMENT 4 93 

275. BROILED PIG'S FEET. 

Pig's feet should be boiled for about six hours. When cold, 
split in two and broil on a wire broiler over a clear fire, baste with 
butter, season with salt and pepper and serve. 

276. FRIED PIG'S FEET. 

Boil the pig's feet and when cold split open, dip in beaten tgg, 
then in bread crumbs and fry in hot fat and serve with tomato 
sauce. 

277. STUFFED PIG'S FEET. 

Take some pickled pig's feet with part of the leg, having the 
butcher remove part of the bone without injurying the meat or 
breaking the skin. If fresh, put in salt brine for two or three 
days. Stuff with a mushroom stuffing. (See Sauces, Dept. 7.) 
Prick the skin with larding needle in a few places, jvrap firmly 
in cloth, tie both ends, simmer till tender in stock or water. 
Remove cloth, dish up, pour over some thick champagne sauce, 
garnish with string beans or sauerkraut and serve hot. 

278. PHILADELPHIA SCRAPPLE. 
(Origin, Pennsylvania Dutch.) 

Take 5 pounds of fresh pork (a small fresh shoulder is nice for 
this purpose), cover with water, add 1 handful of salt and boil 
until the meat separates from the bone ; remove the meat from the 
kettle, strain the liquor and return to the kettle. Then add enough 
water to make about 31^ quarts. To this add 1 chopped onion and 
a little sage if desired, then stir in enough corn-meal to make a 
mush that will slice when cold. When the meal has been stirred 
in, have the meat, chopped not too fine, put in the kettle, and 
boil all together for one hour or more, being careful not to scorch. 
When thoroughly done, turn out in a square pan, and when cold 
cut into slices and fry. 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Mutton CO be tender should hang ten days to two weeks, if 
the weather permits. The strong flavor to which many people 



94 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

object, is in the fat, most of which therefore should be removed. 
Mutton should never be cooked in its own fat. In baking it in 
the oven, it should be placed on a rack, so as not to touch the 
fat dripped into the pan. 

A leg of mutton is either boiled or roasted; the saddle is 
roasted, the chops broiled or fried (the former preferred), and 
the shoulder and neck are used for stews. The saddle may be 
split in two, giving the 2 loins, and the loins may be cut up into 
chops. 

279. ROAST MUTTON. 

Roast mutton is at its best when moderately well done, al- 
lowing from twelve to fifteen minutes per pound. Cut the bone 
of leg of mutton short, trim well, place in a hot oven for fifteen 
minutes. Tilt the pan, remove the melted fat quickly, pour in 
1 large cupful of hot water and baste. Reduce the heat, and cook 
slowly, basting frequently. 

The best flavor is found in a saddle of mutton, which also 
looks handsome. Remove the kidney and fat from the under- 
side and the skin on top. Tie into a nice, round shape. Cook as 
above, allowing from ten to thirteen minutes per pound. Carve 
lengthwise, parallel to the backbone, loosening all the slices on 
one side together by slipping the knife along the ribs. When 
the top is cut away on both sides, turn over and carve the under- 
side, the tenderloin, in a similar manner. 

280. BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON. 

One small leg of mutton, 4 carrots, 3 onions, bunch of herbs, 
bunch of parsley, pepper and salt, a few slices of bacon, a few 
veal trimmings, Yz pint of gravy or wafer. Line the bottom of a 
braising pan with a few slices of bacon ; put in the carrots, on- 
ions, herbs, parsley, and seasoning, and over these place the 
mutton. Cover the whole with a few more slices of bacon and 
the veal trimmings, pour in the gravy or water, and stew gently 
for four hours. Strain the gravy, reduce to a glaze over a sharp 
fire, glaze the mutton with it, and serve on a dish of white beans 



DEPARTMENT 4 95 

boiled tender, or garnished with glazed (dipped in the gravy) 
onions. 

281. ROAST LAMB. 

A quarter of lamb weighing from 7 to 8 pounds will require 
two hours of roasting. A breast of lamb will take about as long^ 

Remove all superfluous fat, put in moderately hot oven. Cook 
slowly. Then dredge with salt and flour, turn on more heat (or 
put the meat nearer the fire), pour a cupful of water in the pan, 
and roast, basting occasionally. Make a nice gravy from the drip- 
pings. Serve very hot with green peas and lettuce. For those 
who like it, have a little mint sauce ready. 

282. BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

'Cut the chops from a well-hung, tender loin of mutton, re- 
move a portion of the fat, and trim into a nice shape ; slightly beat 
and level; place the gridiron over a bright, clear fire, rub the 
bars with a little fat, and lay on the chops. While broiling fre- 
quently turn, and in about eight minutes will be done. Season 
with pepper and salt, dish them on a very hot dish, rub a small 
piece of butter on each chop, and serve hot and expeditiously. 

283. MUTTON CHOPS WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Pare and trim good tender chops, season with pepper and salt, 
dip in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs with which 1 oz. 
of finely chopped lean ham has been mixed. Heat 2 ozs. of butter 
in a pan, put in the chops and fry to a golden brown; drain. Ar- 
range a bed of mashed potatoes and fresh, new green peas, or the 
best canned peas, in a neat design on a hot platter, arrange the 
chops around the bed, pour a little gravy around the chops and 
serve. 

284. ITALIAN MUTTON CHOPS. 

Steep the chops in a mixture of salad oil, lemon juice and 
chopped herbs; turn over in bread crumbs mixed with finely 
chopped mushrooms, parsley, onion, lemon rind, and powdered 
mace (outer hull of nutmeg) ; fry in butter and serve with Italian 
saude. (See Sauces, Dept. 7.) 



96 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

285. LAMB CHOPS. 

Trim the lamb chops neatly and evenly, place in a frying pan 
with a little butter, season with salt and pepper, and fry to a 
brown; when done arrange on a platter alternating each chop 
with a nicely browned piece of toast; take the water from new 
boiled peas or strain the water off a can of the best French peas, 
put in a pan with a piece of butter, season with salt and pepper, 
stir until hot, and pour in the middle of platter. 

286. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Select a nice leg of mutton, cut off the shank bone, wash and 
put in a pot with 1 handful of salt; cover with water and let come 
to a boil, skim until clear ; then set the pot on the back part of the 
stove and let boil very slowly until tender ; will take from two to 
three hours. Serve with caper sauce or drawn butter gravy. 

287. BREAST OF LAMB AND GREEN PEAS. 

Remove the skin, put into a saucepan of boiling water, and 
let simmer for "five minutes. Take out and lay in cold water. 
Line the bottom of a stewpan with a few thin slices of bacon ; lay 
the lamb on top, place slices of lemon on the meat to keep it 
white and make it tender ; cover with 1 or 2 more slices of bacon ; 
add 1 pint of stock, onion, and herbs, and set to simmer gently 
until tender. Put a portion of the green peas on a dish, and the 
lamb on top. 

288. BROWN MUTTON STEW. 

The breast or shoulder of mutton is generally used. Put the 
meat, cut up in nice cubes (dice shape) with a lump of butter in 
a roasting pan, place in the oven and roast to a nice brown ; trans- 
fer to a saucepan, cover with stock, and let boil ; cut 1 carrot or 
turnip and 1 or 2 potatoes into regular shaped pieces and let boil 
with the mutton ; also a few small onions ; season with salt and 
pepper, a little Worcestershire sauce, and a glass of sherry, if de- 
sired. This stew should have a nice brown color. If the sauce 
is to .thin, thicken with a little flour. 



DEPARTMENT 4 97 

289. IRISH STEW. 

Cut mutton from the neck or shoulder, not too fat, into inch 
pieces, allowing about l^ pound for each person. Make a gravy 
with 1 tablespoon dripping, browned, 2 tablespoons of flour, 11^ 
pints water or stock. Season with salt and pepper, add the mutton 
and 2 large onions, cut' fine, and simmer one and a half hours. 
Add 4 large potatoes pared and cut into quarters, and simmer 
until tender. 

290. IRISH STEW— NO. 2. 

Cut 3 pounds of neck of mutton into cubes (dice shape), trim- 
ming off some of the fat; peel and slice 4 pounds of potatoes 
and 2 large onions. Parboil 13 very small onions. Put a layer of 
potatoes on bottom of pot, then a layer of meat, season with pepper 
and salt, strew over a few slices of onion ; repeat this until all the 
meat is used up. Add the small onions, put on the last layer of 
potatoes, add li/^ pints of stock and let simmer two hours. Re- 
move any scum that may rise before boiling, but not after. If 
well cooked, this stew will not look watery. 

291. STEWED CABBAGE AND MUTTON. 

Take li/^ pounds of lean mutton, wash in warm water, stew 
in a little water in a large covered pot with 2 large onions sliced, 
and pepper and salt. Add 1 cabbage head, quartered, when the 
meat is about half cooked, and if desired, add % teaspoonful of 
caraway seed. Add some water. When the cabbage is tender, 
add raw potatoes, peeled, washed and cut in even sized pieces. 
When the potatoes are done, rem(5've from fire. In all, the time 
required is about two hours. If there is too much water, dust 
a little flour over, but there should be a plenty of liquor. Part of 
the potatoes may be put in with the cabbage, so as to cook to 
pieces, thus making a richer liquor. Instead of cabbage, turnips 
may be used. The c^abbage and the meat may both be cut in 
pieces like the potatoes before cooking. 

This is a splendid family dish. Anything left over will taste 
even better next day warmed over, perhaps with a few freshly 
boiled potatoes put in. 



98 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

292. LAMB STEW. 

Remove all the fat, cut up the meat into pieces, 2 inches long 
and 1 inch thick each way. Wash and put in stewpan, cover with 
cold water and heat slowly. Simmer until nearly done, add thin 
slices of salt pork, a large onion sliced thin, pepper and some 
raw potatoes cut up in inch cubes. Cover tightly and cook till 
tender. Thicken with flour moistened with milk. Dumplings of 
some kind, or green peas, make a nice addition. 



293. MUTTON VENISON. 

Cut away the rough fat of a leg of mutton. Put the leg in 
a deep earthen dish, rub thoroughly all over with this mixture : 
1 tablespoonful each of black pepper, salt, celery salt, ground all- 
spice, English mustard and brown sugar, and also, some powd- 
ered herbs. Sprinkle over the leg 1 cup ^of best vinegar, cover 
tightly and set in a cool place four or five days, turning over 
several times a day and basting with the liquor. When ready 
to cook, take the leg out of the pickle and put in a stewpan. Place 
the stewpan in a larger one with enough boiling water to float 
the other. Cover the larger one tightly and steam four hours, 
occasionally replenishing the boiling water and basting the meat 
with the pickle liquid, thinned with 1 cup of hot water. Take 
care, that the boiling water does not get inside the smaller sauce- 
pan. When done, take out the meat, thicken the gravy with 
flour, strain through a fine sieve, serve in a boat with the meat. 
Currant jelly will make a nice addition. 



294. SCRAMBLED MUTTON. 

Put into a stewpan 2 cupfuls of finely chopped mutton, add 
1 lump of butter half as large as an tgg, salt and pepper to taste ; 
then add 14 cup of hot water and when thoroughly heated, break 
into it 3 eggs and stir until nearly stiff. Serve at once. 




Department 5. 

THE tenn "poultry," derived from the French the same as "pullet" 
(chicken), means "domestic fowls," and includes hens, geese, ducks^ 
turkeys and pigeons, all of which furnish a large variety of popular 
dishes. When buying or selecting poultry it is of the utmost importance to 
know the difference between young and old, healthy and diseased birds. The 
best protection against the danger from sick poultry would be to purchase 
live fowls, which should have bright, shining eyes, free from bald spots 
around them, smooth plumage, quick movements, and a bright, red comb. 

295. ROAST TURKEY (How to Prepare and Roast). 

A prime turkey should not be more than six or eight months 
old and should weigh from 10 to 14 pounds. Select the turkey 
with head and feet on and without a gash or incision in the breast. 
Each leg has 11 sinews which should be removed. This cannot 
be done after the feet are cut off. The neck and crop should 
be removed from the back, leaving the breast whole and smooth 
for the stuffing. Wash and rinse the fowl carefully and dry with 
a soft cloth both inside and outside. Dust a little salt and pepper 
on the outside. Good stuffing, with suitable sauce, very essential. 



99 



100 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

For the stuffing take a wooden chopping-bowl ; peel and wash 
1 large or 2 small onions, chop fine in bowl. Use best white 
bread about one day old. Slice and toast delicate brown on drip- 
ping-pan in oven. Use one loaf. It is difficult to specify exact 
amount. Put slices of toasted bread over chopping-bowl on the 
onion. Use ^2 pound best butter and cut in bits, placing on toast 
with 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 of black pepper, 1 teaspoonful pul- 
verized sage, 2 of summer-savory. Take 1 pint of boiling water 
into which a piece of soda the size of a large bean has been dis- 
solved. Add 5 or 6 crushed soda crackers to the ingredients in 
the bowl and pour in and over toast, the boiling water. Give 
time to soak and for steam to soften bread. Be careful not to 
have too much water which is liable to make the dressing sloppy. 
Nor must it be pasty. Use chopping-knife or large mixing-knife 
to work ingredients together. 

When just right, stuff crop first, not too full,' for dressing 
must have room to swell. Use large darning needle and nice 
piece of white wrapping-cotton or cord. Sew up opening and 
bring skinny end of the neck over, fastening it to back. Stuff 
body of turkey and sew up incision. Fix ends of legs and drum- 
sticks neatly with needle and cotton. Use steel skewers (pins 
for fastening meat) and heavy soft cord to hold legs and wings 
in place. Sprinkle salt and pepper lightly over outside of fowl. 
Place in dripping-pan and spread over with soft butter. Add 1 
pint hot water and put in moderately hot oven. The turkey 
should not be allowed to brown much the first hour, but the steam 
from the water will cook and swell and make tender. Baste once 
in fifteen or twenty minutes, adding more hot water from time 
to time as it cooks away. At end of one hour increase heat and 
let turkey begin to grow a golden brown. Do not turn more than 
once and then after it has been in oven about one and one half 
hours. Time required for 14-pound turkey about two and one- 
half or three hours. (See page 440 and page opposite 449.) 

296. ROAST TURKEY STUFFED WITH OYSTERS. 

Select a plump turkey, draw and wash thoroughly. Prepare 
stuffing in the following manner: Put 1 pint of good, fresh 



DEPARTMENT 5 101 

oysters in a pan and stew in their own liquor, drain off the liquor 
and cut the oysters into bits, add 1/2 cup of best butter, a sliced 
onion and spoonful of powdered thyme (seasoning for dressings 
and soups) ; let all simmer together ; moisten 3 pints of dry or 
stale bread crumbs with the oyster liquor, add the oysters and 
onion, also 3 eggs, season with salt and pepper, and mix all thor- 
oughly together ; if the stuffing is too dry, add milk ; if other- 
wise, bread crumbs ; stuff the turkey, sew up the openings, rub 
butter over the outside, dredge with salt, pepper and flour, put 
in a pan with 1 pint of water, place in the oven. Allow fifteen 
minutes to the pound for roasting or boiling a young turkey, 
more for an old one. Baste every ten or fifteen minutes. 

Almost all the recipes for chickens given in this book, apply 
also to turkeys. 

297. ROAST TURKEY, VIRGINIA STYLE. 

Stuffing: Crumb 1 loaf bread ; take 14 cup beef suet shredded 
fine, little sausage meat or scraped and pounded veal, nutmeg, 
salt and pepper. Mix with 3 eggs and stuff. Bake one and a 
quarter hours in hot oven ; baste frequently with hot lard. 

Sauce : Serve with sauce made of crumbs of 1 loaf bread, in 
cold water with a little salt, 1 onion and a few peppercorns. Boil 
until bread is soft; beat and add % pound butter, 2 spoonfuls 
rich cream and serve piping hot with the turkey. 



298. ROAST TURKEY, GIBLET SAUCE. 

Take very fine crumbs of stale bread, moisten lightly with 
boiling water, mix thoroughly with plenty of butter, pepper and 
salt, and a little sage or chopped onion to suit taste. While the 
turkey is roasting boil the gizzard of the turkey until well done, 
put the liver and heart in hot water for a few minutes, then fry 
brown in a little butter ; when this is done chop all together fine, 
and set aside for use. When the fowl is cooked, put on a platter in 
a warm place, skim all the fat off the gravy in which the turkey 
was roasted, add the chopped giblets and thicken with a little 
chopped parsley just before serving. 



103 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

299. TURKEY STUFFING (Women's Club Style)". 

Prepare 10 or 12 lb. turkey. Make stuffing of dry bread, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, sufficient butter, 1 small onion arid an 
equal quantity of celery, add a little parsley, pinch of sage, 1 lb. 
of chestnuts, hulled and scalded, to take off inner coating, and 1 
well beaten egg; add enough boiling water to make moist (not 
sloppy). After stuffing turkey put 1 apple in crop — the juice tends 
to keep the turkey moist and the blending of the different savors 
gives the stuffing a delicious flavor. Follow directions closely. 

300. ROAST CHICKEN. 

Select 1 chicken about a year old, stuff half full, truss (dress) 
as directed above or with skewers, place on slices of salt pork in 
a pan, add water and put in a moderate over for ten minutes. 
Put pepper and salt in the pan and baste. Increase the heat some- 
what, cook tender, basting frequently, and allow fifteen minutes 
to the pound. A quarter of an hour before done, brush the top 
and sides with melted butter, dredge with flour and return to the 
oven. This will give the roast a fine color. Remove the trussing 
cord, garnish with parsley and serve with following sauce: 

Boil the gizzard and heart until tender, chop lightly. When 
the pan is empty, brown 1 tablespoonful of flour in the pan, 
stirring constantly, add the water in which the giblets were boiled, 
season with salt and pepper, add the chopped giblets and serve 
separately. The liver may be cooked with the giblets and taken 
out when tender, or may be roasted inside the chicken. 

The stuffing is usually made as follows: A minced onion is 
fried lightly in 1 tablespoonful of butter, add 1 cupful of bread 
soaked in water a:nd pressed out again, j/i cupful each of stock, 
and chopped celery, season with salt, pepper and thyme. 

301. FRIED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Chicken intended to be fried should not be over six to eight 
weeks old. Clean, draw and wash, plunge into hot water for a 
minute, then in cold, cut in two lengthwise, cut out the back- 
bone and breastbone, and cut each half in two. Salt sparingly, 
flour, dip in egg beaten with a little water and in crumbs mixed 



DEPARTMENT 5 103 

with grated Parmesan cheese, if desired, and fry to a golden brown 
in ample fat not too hot. Shake the pan constantly to avoid 
scorching and turn the pieces over after two minutes. Fry in all 
four minutes or longer if necessary. Drain on slices of bread or 
a cloth, and arrange neatly on a heated platter. Surround with 
sprigs of parsley that have been washed, dried in a cloth and then 
fried yellow in the hot fat, but not over the fire, and sprinkled with 
salt. Place a bouquet of fresh parsley on top and serve with 
Tartare sauce, if desired. 



I. FRIED CHICKEN WITH SWEET POTATOES. 

Cut up the chicken and season with salt and pepper. Dip in 
flour, put a small piece of bacon over each piece, place in the pan, 
with half butter, half lard, put on the cover, and fry slowly for 
one hour and a half. 

Boil sweet potatoes, medium size, then peel and cut in half 
the long way, lay in buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with 1 table- 
spoonful of flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and bits of but- 
ter, add boiling" water just enough to cover, and bake until brown, 
from one-half to three-quarters of an hour. 

Excellent, if the chicken is young and tender. 

303. SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

After cutting the chicken into joints, wash, and put in a fry- 
ing pan, with % a cup of butter and the same measure of water ; 
season with salt and cover closely; cook until the water disap- 
pears, then fry the chicken brown on both sides, take out and lay 
on a platter, put 1 tablespoonful of flour in the frying pan, slightly 
brown, add 1 cupful of milk or water, stir until free from lumps, 
pour over the chicken, set in the oven for a moment and serve. 

304. BROILED CHICKEN. 

Only young chickens are suitable for broiling. Draw the 
chicken and split it down the back, wash clean, lay on the board 



104 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

and break down the breast bone by pressing with the rolling 
pin, put on a double wire broiler, season with salt and broil over 
a clear fire, the inside first. Baste with melted butter while broil- 
ing, and serve as soon as done. 

305. ROYAL CHICKEN POT PIE. 

Disjoint a plump young chicken into six pieces ; crush a small 
piece of garlic and chop fine. Fry the chicken and garlic five min- 
utes in a mixture of one-half butter and one-half pure olive oil, 
seasoning while frying, with salt and paprika (Hungarian pep- 
per). Cut boiled potatoes and artichoke bottoms into crescent 
shapes, add them to the chicken with one dozen small, fresh onions 
and cook ten minutes. Then take 1 cooked tomato mashed to a 
pulp, 1 ear of corn stripped from the cob, and add to % cup of 
bouillon. Remove the chicken from the pan, add the mixture to 
the hot butter and oil, and bring to a boil. The gravy will be a 
nice brown. Serve the chicken in the center of a large silver plat- 
ter, surrounded by the vegetables, pouring the gravy over the en- 
tire dish and garnishing with parsley. 

If the instructions are carefully followed and the chicken pre- 
pared as above, will make an exceptionally fine dinner either for a 
midday or evening meal. It must be understood, however, that 
only a young, tender chicken (not cold storage) should be used, 
and all the other articles or ingredients must be of the best. One 
chicken is usually sufficient quantity for two and might be enough 
for three persons, but if a larger number is to be served, quantity 
can be proportioned accordingly. 

306. PAPRIKA CHICKEN. 

Put 1 heaping tables^oonful of lard into a saucepan and brown 
in it 1 onion cut up lengthwise. Add 1 tablespoonful of Rosen 
Paprika, mix well and add 1 chicken cut into pieces at the joints. 
Salt, stir well, cover and let steam for several minutes. Mix a 
little water with same and let boil until well done, being careful 
to avoid burning. Garnish with chopped hard-boiled eggs and 
lettuce leaves. 



DEPARTMENT 5 105 

307. CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Cut a young, plump chicken into joints, wash, and put in a 
pot, cover with cold water and let come to a boil ; skim carefully 
as long as any scum rises ; boil until well done, season with salt 
and pepper ; cook 2/3 cup of flour in i/^ cup of butter, stir into the 
chicken stock, leaving in the chicken ; stir carefully to avoid 
breaking the meat ; toast slices of bread, cut in squares-, put on a 
platter, pour the chicken and sauce over it and serve. 

This dish can be varied and elaborated in many ways, as by 
adding sweet breads or small sausages, oysters or crawfish tails, 
mushrooms or asparagus tips, meat balls or dumplings. Crescents 
of puff paste baked to a golden brown make an attractive garnish. 

308. PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil the chicken until very tender, remove all skin and bones, 
and pick the meat into small bits, mixing the light and dark to- 
gether. Remove all fat from the broth in which the chicken has 
been boiled, season with salt, pepper, a little chopped celery, a 
little chopped onion if desired, and the juice of a lemon, and boil 
down to ^ pint. Take a smooth, round dish and place hard boiled 
eggs, cut into slices, on the bottom and sides, mix the meat and 
broth together, turn into the dish and cover with a plate that fits, 
put a weight on the top and set away. When cold, turn out on 
the dish on which it is to be served, and garnish with parsley 
leaves and slices of lemon. _ ? 

309. SCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

Two plump, young chickens, about 3 pounds each, 4 sweet- 
breads, and 1 can of French mushrooms. Cook chicken and sweet- 
breads separately, salting lightly, and using a few whole black 
peppers in water of each. Cook till tender, but not to shreds. 
When cool, remove all skin and fat and cut the meat into 
small pieces. Treat the sweetbreads in the same manner. Stir to- 
gether 4 large tablespoons butter and 5 of flour. Scald 1 quart 
cream and turn in the mixture, stirring until thick. Season with 
salt and a dash of cayenne. Put chicken and cream into buttered 



106 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

dish, add sweetbreads and mushrooms cut in pieces. Cover with 
bread and cracker crumbs half and half, put pieces of butter on 
top and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

310. BOILED FOWL AND RICE. 

Select a nice large chicken too old to be roasted, truss (dress) 
as for roasting, and put into a stewpan with enough boiling salted 
water or mutton broth to cover it. Let simmer slowly, allowing 
twenty minutes to the pound. If desired, 2 onions and a little 
mace (outer hull of nutmeg) may be put in with the meat. Half 
an hour before the fowl is done, put in % cup of well washed and 
soaked rice. When the rice is tender, strain it from the liquor 
and leave in the sieve near the fire. When ready to serve, place 
the fowl on a platter, the rice around it, put a little white sauce or 
butter on the fowl and sprinkle with chopped parsley. The liquor 
may be used to mike an egg or oyster sauce, served separately. 

If preferred, the rice may be put inside the fowl as a stuffiing; 
but do not fill more than half. 



311. ESCALLOPED CHICKEN AND MACARONI. 

Put in a buttered ramekin (baking dish), a layer of cooked, 
cold, minced chicken, then a layer of cold cooked macaroni, bro- 
ken into bits ; then a layer of crumbs, and repeat until the dish is 
filled, having crumbs on top. Dot with bits of butter, add suffi- 
cient milk to moisten and bake until brown. Individual dishes 
may be used if preferred. 

312. CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up 2 chickens and boil, putting on just enough water to 
cover them, and season with salt and pepper, skim carefully ; when 
tender, rub 2 tablespoonfuls of flour in i/^ a cup of butter and add 
to the stew. Line an earthen pan with a rich crust, put in the 
chicken, gravy and all, cover with crust, pinching down the sides, 
cut an opening in the center for the steam to escape, and bake one 
hour. 



DEPARTMENT 5 107 

313. CHICKEN POT PIE. 

Prepare chicken as for pie, but have more gravy, put in the 
crust and boil twenty minutes ; when done place the chicken in 
the middle of a platter, place the crust around it, pour some of 
the gravy over all, and serve the remainder in a gravy boat. 

314. COLD CHICKEN PIE. 

Take a young fowl weighing about 4 pounds, dress and steam 
until tender. Scald the legs, taking off the outer skin and nails 
and put in the water under the steamer to boil. When the chicken 
is tender, remove the meat from the skin and bones and put them 
with the legs in the kettle, add enough water to cover and let stew 
for at least two hours. Then strain and season to taste. Make a 
rich crust as for pie, but roll out a little thicker. Line a dish and 
put in the chicken meat cut in small pieces. Pour over it the sea- 
soned chicken broth, cover with an upper crust. Cut several 
slashes to allow the steam to escape and bake until the crust is 
well done. Then set away to cool. When served, the broth will 
have formed into a jelly. (Fine for picnics.) 

315. CHICKEN BAKED WITH RICEJ. 

Cut the chicken in small parts and stew until tender. Line 
the bottom of a deep baking dish with slices of bacon, place the 
chicken on top and over it sprinkle 2 onions minced fine. Fill the 
dish with boiled rice and pour over it 1 cup of stock in which the 
chicken has been boiled. (Season chicken when boiling.) Cover 
and bake for one hour. 

316. CHICKEN CURRY. 

Veal or lamb can be used. 1 quart sweet milk, 1 cocoanut 
grated, small piece ginger root, cut in small pieces about % inch 
square (be careful not to cut more than i/^ inch square — the dry 
will do, if the fresh cannot be obtained). Boil together in double 
boiler one hour ; then squeeze through cheesecloth and add 1 
large tablespoon cornstarch, 2 large tablespoons curry powder and 



108 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

salt to taste. Have chicken or meat well cooked and cut in cubes 
(dice shapes.) When curry sauce is cooked put the meat in and 
stir about five minutes until hot. Place border of rice around 
platter and pour curry in center. 

317. HOT CHICKEN TOAST. 

Chop cold chicken meat fine, put into a stewpan, add 1 cupful 
of milk, a lump of butter the size of an egg, salt and pepper to 
taste and thicken with a little flour stirred in water. Take thin 
slices of bread, place 1 spoonful of the creamed chicken between 
2 slices of bread and put the sandwich on a plate and pour a 
large spoonful of the cream over it. 

318, TURKEY CUTLETS. 

Free the remains of a cooked turkey (chicken can be used in 
the same way) from bone and gristle, cut the meat and a few slices 
of boiled tongue and smoked sausage into dice of uniform size, 
stir into some hot rich white sauce over the fire. When well 
blended, pour onto a large flat china dish. When cool enough, 
shape into cutlets, egg and crumb, and fry a light brown in hot 
fat. Drain, arrange neatly on a hot platter, and serve, garnished 
with parsley or watercresses. To give the cutlets the appearance 
of real chops, a paper frill may be fastened to each with a wooden 
skewer (meat-pin) or tooth pick. A frill is made by folding once 
lengthwise a strip of paper 8 inches long and 5 inches wide, mak- 
ing parallel incisions with the scissors two-thirds across from the 
folded edge, and rolling the strip up around a skewer about the 
size of a lead pencil. 

319. ROAST GOOSE. 

Pick, draw and singe a goose of 5 or 6 pounds, wipe inside with 
damp cloth. Peel 3 onions, parboil with 18 sage leaves, strain 
and chop fine. Chop 2 ozs, of suet, mix with the onions and sage 
leaves, add 4 ozs. of bread crumbs and 1 well-beaten egg, season 
and mix well. Stuff the goose with this, roast half an hour in 
moderate oven, and then in greater heat an hour longer, basting 



DEPARTMENT 5 109 

occasionally. Sprinkle with a little salt before taking up. Strain 
the fat from the dripping-pan and keep for future use. Add some 
stock or gravy to pan, season, boil for a few minutes and pour in 
sauce boat. 

A nice stuffing is made of stoned raisins and apples peeled and 
cut in eighths. If the apples are extra tart, sprinkle with sugar. 



320. STUFFING FOR GOOSE OR DUCK. 

Pour cold water over a pint of stale bread. Let stand about an 
hour, then squeeze as dry as possible with the hands. Add 1 pint 
of mashed potatoes or boiled rice. Add a lump of butter the size 
of an egg and season to taste with sage, salt and pepper and 1 
tablespoonful each of chopped onion and parsley. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of lard or drippings in a frying pan ; when hot, put the 
dressing in and heat thoroughly. Remove from the fire, and for 
every pint stir in 1 well beaten egg. Fill the fowl and sew up both 
ends to prevent the stuffing from escaping. 



321. ROAST DUCK. 

Dress and roast the same as goose. Young ducks should be 
in the hot oven from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes, old ones 
from an hour to an hour and a quarter. Baste frequently. Make 
sure that in either case the duck is cooked enough, that is to say 
tender, before serving. 

Another way of roasting duck is to surround the bird in the 
baking pan with halved onions and small slices of smoked ham. 

322. DRESSING FOR ROAST DUCK. 

For two ducks peel 6 potatoes into cold water, then put into 
boiling water which has been salted, and when done, strain and 
put on the back of stove to dry. Chop 3 good-sized onions fine, 
mash with the potatoes, and add 1 large spoonful of butter, 1 of 
sugar and ^^ a cupful of flour. Rub all together, salt and pepper 
to taste. 



110 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK / 

323. STEWED DUCK. 

Clean and wash, cut into 6 or 8 pieces, bring to a boil in salted 
water and remove the scum. Let simmer half an hour. Add 2 
large onions sliced, i/^ cupful of white bread and 2 or 3 cloves. 
When done, rub the gravy through a sieve, boil up again with 3 
or 4 slices of lemon, pour over the meat and serve. 

324. BRAISED DUCK. 

Prepare as for roasting. Line bottom of small, high roasting 
pan with slices of bacon and strew with thyme, lemon peel and 
parsley. Put in the duck, also 1 carrot cut in slices, 1 onion stuck 
with 4 cloves ; salt and pepper to taste, enough stock and 1 glass 
of white wine. Let simmer for about one hour, baste frequently. 
Just before the duck is cooked enough, fry 2 or 3 sliced turnips 
in butter to a light brown, eight or ten minutes ; drain and add 
to the gravy after the duck has been removed from the pan. 
Cook the gravy, adding stock, until the turnips are tender; 
strain, pour over the hot duck, and use turnips as garnish. 

325. ROAST PIGEONS. 

Pigeons should be plump and fresh, and must be drawn as 
soon as killed. Cut off the necks close to the breast. The birds 
should be washed thoroughly ; cut off the toes at the first joint, 
and truss the wings over the backs. Stuff the pigeons with a del- 
icate forcemeat or dressing, pack in the roasting pan, dredge with 
salt and pepper, pour in 1 teacupful of water, put a lump of butter 
on each bird, place in a brisk oven and baste frequently. Young 
pigeons usually take one-half to three quarters of an hour to cook. 

326. PHILADELPHIA SQUAB. 

Pigeons too young to fly are called squabs. Split down the 
back and broil like chickens; season well with pepper and salt 
and a plenty of butter. Broil until well done. Dress each with a 
large thin slice of broiled or slightly fried salt pork and serve im- 
mediately. 



DEPARTMENT 5 111 

327. PIGEON, POLISH STYLE. 

Cut 2 ozs. of streaky bacon into dice, and fry with a little but- 
ter in a pan ; when almost done, add 1 niinced very small onion 
and fry likewise. Add the pigeon's liver, cleaned and sliced be- 
forehand ; season with salt and pepper and powdered savory, cook 
five minutes over quick fire. Put all in a mortar, pound till fine, 
rub through a fine wire sieve. With this forcemeat (meat chop- 
ped fine and seasoned), fill the pigeon, truss and roast it, fre- 
quently basting with melted butter. When nearly done, take out 
and let cool. Then brush with beaten egg and roll in crumbs, and 
fry in hot deep fat ten minutes ; drain, untruss and serve with or 
without gravy or sauce. 

328. PIGEON STEW, AMERICAN STYLE. 

The pigeon is stewed and dished up with cubes (dice-shapes) 
of fried bacon and with small onions slightly sugared and fried 
in butter. Serve with brown sauce mixed with a little cranberry 
jelly. 

329. PIGEON PIE. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with slices of cold cooked 
veal. Put as many young tender pigeons in the dish as will lie 
side by side, breast down. Put in each bird a lump of butter as 
large as a walnut. Season with salt and pepper and dust with 
flour. Pour over all enough veal broth to almost cover the birds. 
Cover with a rich crust rolled to % inch in thickness, and bake 
slowly for about one and one-half hours. The birds may be stuffed 
with mashed potato. This recipe is good for pies of any small 
birds. 

330. PIGEON PIE— NO. 2. 

Clean young pigeons, split and nearly cover in a stewpan with 
some good stock. When tender, take out and remove the larger 
bones. Cut the livers and hearts into bits and slice 4 hard boiled 
eggs. Butter a pudding dish and fill with layers of pigeon, egg, 
pepper, salt, and giblets. Make a roux and thicken enough of the 
liquor in which it is cooked to fill the dish. Cover with layer of 
good paste, leaving hole in the center and bake for pne hour. 




Copyright, 14108, by Win, H. i.ee. 




Department 6. 

EVERY meat has its own peculiarities, which must be made the subject of 
study by the cook or housekeeper, if the best qualities of each are to be 
brought out. If this is true of meats obtained from domestic animals, it is 
still more true of wild meats or game. With the exception of venison, which 
may be rare or underdone, all game, especially white meat, should be well 
cooked and properly seasoned. Care must also be taken that the meat is not 
exposed to the air too long after being killed. If necessity requires the meat 
to be kept beyond the usual time, immerse in warm water and vinegar for 
one hour, then rinse, wipe dry, and put in sweet milk for twenty-four hours, 
covering it entirely. Game that has been in cold storage is not recommended. 



331. PARTRIDGE. 



A partridge must be thoroughly cooked, like all white meat. 
To protect the bird from drying too much, it is well to wrap 
it in slices of pork before putting in the broiler or oven. If to be 
broiled, split down th« back, rub with butter and broil twenty 
minutes, covered and the inside next to the coals. Then turn the 
skin side to the coals and broil five minutes longer. Keep well 
basted. while broiling. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve 
hot, on buttered toast, with a bread sauce or white sauce. 

If to be roasted, leave in a hot overvabout forty minutes, bast- 
ing occasionally. Pour little of gravy over the bird, 

113 



114 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

332. SNIPE. 

Draw the birds carefully and wipe with a wet cloth. Hold 
the lower joints of the legs in boiling water for a minute and re- 
move the skin. Chop off the feet. Skin the head, take out the 
eyes and run the bill through "the legs and body as a skewer, hold- 
ing the bird in compact shape. Wrap each bird in a thin slice of 
fat pork, bake ten minutes or more in hot oven, basting once or 
twice or as often as necessary. Remove the stomach from the en- 
trails and reduce the remainder to a paste, seasoned with lemon 
juice, butter, salt and pepper. Spread this paste on fried slices of 
bread just large enough to hold one bird each, and arrange the 
slices on a platter. Put the platter in the oven, when hot pour 
the gravy in the pan over the bread slices, put a bird on each, 
garnish with watercress and serve piping hot. — In Europe snipes 
usually are not drawn. Woodcocks are cooked like snipes. 

333. WILD DUCK. 

Carefully pick, singe and wipe the outside, draw and wipe the 
inside. Truss into neat shape, sprinkle the inside with salt and 
pepper, and if desired, put in 1 teaspoonful of currant jelly. If to 
be roasted, wrap the breast in salt pork or bacon, baste frequently, 
roast twenty minutes, if wanted rare. Serve piping hot. As a 
rule only the breast is eaten. All water-birds should be fresh. 
Canvasback and Redhead duck are generally considered the most 
palatable. 

334. WILD DUCK, AMERICAN STYLE. 

Stuff the duck with soaked bread well buttered and seasoned. 
Cook slowly with 1 cup of good stock, 1 tablespoonful of butter 
or suet, 2 slices of lemon, 1 bay-leaf, 8 juniper berries and a pinch 
of salt in closely covered stew-pan. If desired, the duck may be 
fried a few minutes first in butter. Serve with its own gravy 
strained, or with a brown sauce made of boiled duck giblets, chop- 
ped onions and, if desired, a little port wine. 



DEPARTMENT 6 115 

335. GROUSE. 

Grouse, like most game-birds, should hang about a week before 
"J sing. Then pick with care, so as not to break the skin. Singe, 
draw and truss. Put a piece of butter mixed with pepper, the size 
of a nutmeg, in each bird. Broil or roast from forty-five minutes 
to one hour, basting liberally with melted butter or hot bacon fat. 
If roasting, place a piece of buttered toast under each bird. Serve 
the toast with the bird. Garnish with watercress and fried bread- 
dice; served with a bread sauce. (See Sauces, Dept. 7.) The 
grouse may be larded, if preferred. 

336. QUAIL. 

Draw and carefully wipe with a wet cloth inside and outside. 
Truss so as to have the legs stand up. Wrap each bird in a slice 
of bacon or fat pork and bake until well-done, about twenty-five 
minutes, in a hot oven, basting frequently. Place each bird on 
toast, pour the gravy in the pan over them and serve hot. 

Quails are delicious roasted in hot ashes. Recominended only 
in case of emergency. Prepare as above and wrap and tie in 
carefully buttered thin paper. When done, remove the paper. If to 
be broiled, split down the back, broil five or six minutes on each 
side, basting with a little butter, place on slices of hot toast, pour 
a little hot butter on each bird, salt and pepper lightly and serve. 
In either of the last two cases a rich brown gravy reduced with 
sherry will go well with the dish. 

337. PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 

. The birds may be split open at the back, buttered and broiled, 
but the better way is to use only the bceast, cutting it in two and 
broiling. Serve on buttered toast, garnish with currant jelly. If 
for breakfast, serve on fried mush. 

338. FRIED RABBIT. 

Rabbits should be young and fresh. Don't accept one that has 
been hung in the air or kept in cold storage too long. Cut up the 
rabbit and fry in butter until nearly done. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, let cool and trim. Dip each piece in beaten egg and bread 



116 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

crumbs, let set, dip in melted butter, and egg and crumb again. 
Put in wire basket and fry in hot fat to golden color. Drain, dish 
up neatly over paper or linen napkin, garnish with strips of fried 
bacon, if desired, and parsley sprigs; and serve with Tartare 
sauce (See Sauces, Dept. 7). 

339. ROAST RABBIT. 

Dress and clean the rabbit thoroughly, and soak in salt and 
water. Put in a dripping pan and dredge with salt, pepper and a 
little flour. Cut salt pork in thin strips and lard the rabbit with 
them, spread some butter over all, put a little water in the pan and 
roast in the oven until perfectly tender, basting often. 

340. COLD HARE PIE. 

A hare or a jack-rabbit is cut up into small joints, filled into 
a pie-dish wth alternate layers of forcemeat, slices of bacon and 
liver, covered with puff-paste crust, leaving a small hole in center, 
and baked in moderate oven. Serve when cold. 

It is an improvement to fill the pie up with warm aspic (See 
Sauces, Dept. 7), when cooled off a little, inserting the funnel in 
hole. 

341. JUGGED HARE. 

Take one hare (or a jackrabbit or 3 or 3 small rabbits), skin, 
draw and wash thoroughly. Cut up into nice pieces, dredge with 
flour and fry in very hot butter a nice brown. Drain and put in a 
jar or crock, together with 1 onion stuck with 6 cloves, the slices 
of 1 lemon, and an ample seasoning of pepper and salt. Pour over 
all iy2 pints of good stock, cover tightly, put in deep stewpan, of 
boiling water, so the water stands as high as the contents of the 
crock, and stew until tender. When done, add a few cooked 
forcemeat balls, if desired, and 1 glass or more or port wine. Serve 
with red currant jelly. 

This is excellent, eaten cold. If to be kept several days, take 
out the lemon and onion, before putting away. 

342. SQUIRREL. 

Young squirrels can be cut in quarters and either fried or 



DEPARTMENT 6 117 

broiled, like chickens. Older ones, known by the greater size and 
strong bones, are treated like rabbits, according to taste. (See 
Jugged Hare and Cold Hare Pie.) 

343. VENISON. 

Both saddle and leg are good roasting pieces. Lard and dredge 
with salt and pepper, put 1 cup of water and 1 tablespoonful of 
butter in the pan, and roast ten minutes to the pound, basting 
frequently. Venison steak is broiled like beefsteak. Serve all 
venison underdone and with currant jelly, or currant jelly sauce 
(See Sauce, Dept. 7). 

344. BEAR AND BUFFALO. 
Bear and buflfalo meat should be cooked similar to beef. 

345. RACCOONS AND WOODCHUCKS. 

They are considered a great delicacy by hunters, who either 
stew or bake them after the manner of pigs' meat. Old animals 
are generally parboiled before cooking. 

346. OPOSSUM. 

Scald like a hog, clean and hang in the frosty air about two 
days. Parboil and bake like pigs' meat in a moderate oven, bast- 
ing frequently. Cut peeled sweet potatoes in halves and bake in 
the pan with the meat. 

347. GAME PIE. 

Pick the birds, draw, rinse in salt and water, and put on the ice 
if not wanted until next day. Put on the stove in cold water and 
when cooked about half an hour, remove from the stewpan, strain 
the liquid, thicken and add 1 tablespoonful of butter. Take a 
good-sized pudding dish, line the sides with pastry, put in the 
birds and not quite cover with the gravy, saving what is left until 
the pie is cooked, then add if needed, Bake pie until pastry is 
done. 



118 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

348. SPATCHCOCK. 

An excellent English dish, equally good for dinner, lunch or 
breakfast. Pick, draw and singe the bird (pigeon, chicken, par- 
tridge or grouse), split it down the back and cut through the bone. 
Wipe the inside with damp cloth, cut off the feet at first jont, and 
the neck close to the body. Flatten the bird, season with salt and 
pepper. Brush the inside with sweet oil, sprinkle with finely 
chopped onion and parsley. Dredge with a little flour, put in well 
greased broiler, brush with sweet oil or melted butter, broil over 
bright fire (best of charcoal) fifteen to twenty minutes, turning 
often and basting with melted butter or sweet oil. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

349. COLD REED-BIRD PIE. 

Take 13 reed-birds' (sparrows are good during the fall season), 
pick, draw and singe. Roll in flour and fill with a stuffing made 
as follows: The rind of % a lemon, 1 onion, 1 teaspoonful of 
parsley, and 1 tablespoonful of lean ham, all finely chopped, mixed 
with 2 cups of bread crumbs and the yolk of 1 egg, adding a little 
stock or water if necessary, and pepper and salt to taste. Cut i/^ 
pound of lean beef (round or rump), and '/^ pound of streaky ba- 
con into thin slices, line with part of these the bottom of a large 
pie-dish, season and sprinkle with 1 teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, put in the birds neatly. Fill up with remaining beef and ba- 
con, season again, and moisten with iy2 gills of stock. Cover the 
dish with puff-paste, making a small hole in the middle, brush with 
egg and bake in fairly hot oven for one hour. May be served hot. 
If to be eaten cold, can be filled up with warm aspic (See Sauces, 
Dept. 7), when half cooled. 

350. DEVILED GAME. 

Cut any kind of cooked game into neat slices, free from skin 
and bone. Season with salt, red pepper and paprika (Hungarian 
pepper), and a few drops of lemon juice. Dip in melted butter and 
cover with bread crumbs. Place on well buttered tin and put in 
hot oven for a few minutes to brown, but do not let get dry. 
Dress neatly, cover loosely with watercress, season with salt and 
lemon juice, and serve piping hot. 




Department 7. 

THE phrase "Hunger is the best sauce" proves that a good sauce is essen- 
tial to most dishes, and the French owe their culinary fame principally 
to their sauces. There is no reason why American cooks and house- 
keepers should not excel in this special art, as sauces are easily made, and 
mostly from inexpensive materials. Of course, to obtain the best results it is 
necessary to use the best ingredients. To avoid adulterations, the spices 
should be whole when selected, and ground or pulverized at home. 



SAUCES. 

For meat sauces the basis is generally a roux, 1 tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour cooked together. The butter is melted 
over fire and the flour added and stirred. If the sauce desired is 
to be white, the flour is not allowed to color, if to be brown, the 
flour should be browned (but hot scorched). Adding 1 cup of 
milk to the white roux makes a white sauce, 1 cup of cream added 
makes a cream sauce, 1 cup of stock (or half stock, half milk), 
added gives a Bechamel sauce, and 2 egg yolks, added to Becha- 
mel, make a Poulette sauce. All such additions must be worked 

119 



120 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

into the roux carefully while the stewpan is drawn away from the 
fire. The flavor of onions (or other vegetables) may be added to 
the roux by frying in the butter before adding the flour. 

Where the flavor of vegetables is desired for a sauce, a vegeta- 
ble fry (French: mirepoix) is made as follows: Cut dice-shape 
(cubes) 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 turnip and 1 stick of celery, add pars- 
ley and 1 bay-leaf, and fry in salt pork fat or butter, then add V& 
cup of hot water and let simmer one hour. 

When the yolks of eggs, with or without the whites, are used 
to thicken a sauce, stir well and do not allow the sauce to boil. 

Besides for soups, stock is used for making "essences," appre- 
ciated for enriching certain sauces. Such essences are: ham es- 
sence, mushroom essence, chicken essence, rabbit iessence, par- 
tridge essence, fish essence, etc. To make ham essence, simmer 
the ham, with fresh vegetables and herbs and a little wine, in rich 
stock, strain, skim, take off all the fat, boil down to desired con- 
sistency and put up for future use. For other essences proceed 
in the same way. 

A bunch of herbs, frequently mentioned in these recipes, con- 
sists of a few sprigs of parsley, 1 each of thyme, marjoram, basil 
and celery, 1 small piece each of cinnamon and mace, and 1 pepper 
pod, all tied together. Of course, it is not essential to have all 
these ingredients. Four or five will be sufficient in most cases. 

351. SPANISH SAUCE (ESPAGNOLE). 

This sauce is the foundation of many excellent sauces and 
soups. A supply kept on hand will enable the housewife or cook 
to triumph over many a difficulty. For ^ gallon of Espagnole take 
the following ingredients : 3 quarts of rich stock, 4 ozs. lean veal, 
1 bunch of kitchen herbs, 13 peppercorns, 4 ozs. butter, 4 ozs. 
sifted flour, 4 ozs. lean bacon or uncooked ham, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 
1 onion, 2 cloves, % pint tomatoes, % gill claret, 1 glass sherry, a 
few mushrooms. 

Wash and peel the vegetables, cut up small and put in large 
saucepan, with the bouquet, spices, the cut-up meat and 1 oz. 
of butter. Stir over the fire, until a nice light brown color. Pour 
off the fat, pour in the stock, wine and tomato, bring to boil and 



DEPARTMENT 7 131 

-Ct simmer for one hour, skimming occasionally. The wine may 
be omitted, or cider substituted. 

Make dark brown roux of 3 ozs. of butter and 4 ozs. flour over 
•. moderate fire, constantly stirring with wooden spoon. Cool; 
gradually pour in the above sauce, stir over fire till boiling, let 
simmer gently one hour, skim well, pass through a cloth or fine 
sieve. If too thick, add stock. While cooling, stir occasionally 
to prevent crust on top. Keep in stone vessel, and boil up once a 
day, adding a little more stock. 

The following four recipes are good samples of the use of Es- 
pagnole in sauces. 

352. MEAT GLAZE. 

Eight quarts of good stock, white or brown, are boiled up, 
skimmed and reduced to % pint over moderate fire. This will 
take from three to four hours. Put into jar while hot, cover and 
keep in dry place. 

This is virtually a meat extract. Dissolve a little of it in hot 
water and sprinkle or brush over chops and braised meats to glaze. 
Will keep for some time. 

353. DEMI-GLAZE. 

Mix 1 gill of Espagnole sauce with i/^ gill of good gravy 
(strained and free from fat). Let simmer fifteen minutes. Add 
pinch of pepper. 

This is the simplest sauce made of Espagnole sauce. An end- 
less, variety of flavors can be obtained, by adding, for instance, a 
glass of sherry, 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 1 table- 
spoonful of cranberry sauce or currant jelly, etc. Try a few ex- 
periments and make a note of the successful ones. 

354. SAUCE ROBERT. 

Mince % small onion, fry brown in % oz. butef, add 1 salt- 
spoonful dry mustard, yi glass white wine or cider and % tea- 
spoonful of sugar. When hot, stir in % pint Espagnole sauce, 
cook ten minutes. Sieason to taste, strain. Good for most meats, 
game and fish. 



122 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

355. ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Chop 1 medium-sized onion fine, make ball of this in a cloth, 
press tight, let cold water run over it, squeeze out. Open cloth, 
put the onion in small saucepan with 1 tablesponful of sweet-oil, 
stir over fire, but do not allow to color. Add 1 glass of white wine, 
8 chopped mushrooms, 1 sprig of thyme, 1 bay-leaf, and ^ gill 
of stock. Boil down to the desired thickness. Add % pint of 
Espagnole sauce, boil ten minutes, take out the thyme and bay- 
leaf, skim off the oil. Keep hot. in pan of water. 

356. SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Chop 1 medium-sized onion, put in stewpan with 1 gill vine- 
gar, 1 bay-leaf, and 1 sprig thyme ; cover and boil down one-half. 
Strain into another saucepan, add 3 chopped gherkins, 1 table- 
spoonful chopped capers and 3 gills of Espagnole sauce. Boil a 
few minutes and serve. 

357. WHITE SAUCE (BECHAMEL). 

Bring to a boil 1 pint of milk together with 1 small bunch of 
parsley leaves, i^ bayleaf, 1 small blade of mace (outer hull of 
nutmeg), a little salt and pepper and a peeled onion stuck with a 
clove. Keep hot. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in 1 oz. 
of flour, cook a few minutes, without the slightest browning, then 
gradually add the hot mlk, etc., constantly stirring. Continue to 
stir, until it comes to boil, then let simmer ten minutes or longer. 
Strain and put away. Salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste are added, 
when used. Bechamel sauce is the foundation" of many white 
sauces. 

358. WHITE SAUCE (ALLEMANDE). 

Put in saucepan 1 cupful of butter, 1 sliced onion, and 1 car- 
rot; when the butter is melted, add 1 cupful of flour and stir 
smooth, then pour in 2 quarts boiling white stock and let boil 
slowly for one hour ; season with salt and white pepper and strain. 
Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with the juice of 1 lemon, stir into the 
sauce and keep hot for use. 



DEPARTMENT 7 123 

359. WHITE SAUCE (HOLLAND AISE). 

Boil up 1 gill of Bechamel sauce, remove to cdoler part of 
stove, stir in the yolks of 3 eggs, add the particular stock of what- 
ever is being cooked, put over fire, mix well and reheat without 
boiling, add gradually 2 ounces of butter. Season with pepper, 
salt and the juice of i^ a lemon. Strain. 

If there is no Bechamel sauce on hand, use 4 yolks of eggs to 
V^ gill of stock, and finish with 4 ozs. of butter. 



360. DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Into a white roux made of 3 tablespoonfuls of butter and 1 of 
flour, stir over the fire and add little by little, 1 cup of hot white 
stock or water. When smooth, add little by little 1 tablespoonfu! 
of butter, then pepper and salt, and strain, if not perfectly smooth. 
May be flavored with lemon juice or chopped parsley. Excellent 
with boiled or baked fish, and with potatoes cut the size of walnuts 
and boiled thoroughly. 



361. STANDARD BUTTER SAUCE. 

Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter in saucepan, rub in 1 tablespoonful 
flour until smooth; and while stirring add 1 pint boiling water 
and j4 teaspoonful salt. When thick serve at once. If desired, 

1 well beaten egg may be added before removing from fire. 

362. CREAM SAUCE. 

Season white roux made of 1 tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour, with little salt and white pepper, then stir in gradually ^ 
pint of cream heated in water. A rich sauce for boiled fish or an 
omelet. ' 

363. SAUCE VELOUTE. 

Heat, without browning, in % cup of butter, 1 pound of veal 
and chicken cut fine, together with 13 good-sized mushroms, add 

2 carrots and 3 onions sliced, 1 tablespoonful of flour, pepper, salt 
and spices to taste, cover with veal stock and let all boil up. Skim 



124 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

off the fat, let simmer for 1% hours, strain and set covered in hot 
water till needed. 

364. BROWN BUTTER SAUCE (BEURRE NOIRE). 

Slowly brown % cup of good butter in saucepan, then stir in 
gradually 3 tablespoonfuls of hot vinegar, and add 1 tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley and a little pepper and salt. Fine for fish, 
calf's head, calf's brains and eggs. 

365. OLD ZEALAND SAUCE. 

Put in saucepan scant "^ cup of butter, 1 teacupful of good 
vinegar, and % cupful of water, let come to boil, then stir in 2 well 
beaten eggs. Keep stirring until creamy. If too thick add a lit- 
tle water ; season with salt and white pepper. Excellent with 
boiled cod fish, either salt or fresh. 



366. NORMANDY SAUCE. 

Chop % of can of mushrooms, 1 onion, 1 dozen oysters, and 6 
shrimps; let simmer in 1 cupful of butter for ten minutes, then 
add 1 quart of allemande sauce, season with a glass of sherry or 
cider, if desired, and serve. 



367. ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

With 1 quart of allemande sauce mix % of a bottle of anchovy 
paste, or butter. Excellent for all kinds of baked fish. 

368. PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Chop fine % of bunch of parsley, squeeze dry through a nap- 
kin and stir into 1 quart of allemande sauce. 

369. CAPER SAUCE. 

Add to 1 quart of allemande sauce 1 cupful of capers. Nice 
with boiled mutton. 



DEPARTMENT 7 ^ 125 

370. EGG SAUCE. 

Cut up fine 4 hard boiled eggs, squeeze the juice of 1 lemon 
over, and stir into ^ quart of white sauce. Particularly nice with 
broiled trout. 

371. CARDINAL SAUCE. 

Pound the shells of 2 lobsters extra fine, add some of the coral, 
also pounded fine, put in a sauce pan with y^ a cup of butter, let 
it cook for twenty or twenty-five minutes, then add 1 quart of 
allemande sauce, the juice of 1 lemon, and 1 glass of sherry ; sim- 
mer together for two or three minutes, strain and serve. Excel- 
lent for broiled or baked fish. 

372. ASPIC (MEAT JELLY). 

Take 2 quarts of cold veal stock, remove every particle of fat 
from the surface, put in a stewpan with 2 ozs. of gelatine and a 
bunch of herbs. Put in 2 celery stalks cut in small pieces, and 2 
whites of eggs lightly beaten. Mix well. Put on brisk fire and 
stir constantly until nearly boiling. Then add 1 gill of white-wine 
vinegar and 1% gills of sherry or white wine and let all come to 
boil. Put on cooler part of stove for ten minutes. Strain through 
a cloth repeatedly until perfectly clear. Keep in a basin. By 
dissolving some of this aspic and adding half the quantity of an- 
other ingredient, a great variety of sauces can be made. Two 
samples follow: 

1. When dissolved and cold, stir gradually half the quantity 
of mayonnaise into it. 

2. Boil up with half the quantity of tomatoes, simmer for a 
few minutes, pass through a fine sieve and add 1 dessertspoonful 
of sherry. 

373. BROWN STOCK GRAVY. 

Put 1 oz. of drippings or 2 ozs. of beef suet in stewpan, with 1 
sliced onion and carrot, fry light brown, add 2 pounds beef trim- 
mings or other meat and any bones, fresh or cooked, that happen 
to be on hand. Bake in the oven fifteen minutes, pour off the fat, 
add 2 quarts of water, Yz head of washed celery, 3 cloves, blade of 
mace, 6 allspice and a small bunch of herbs. Let simmer two hours 



136 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

or more, take off fat and scum; strain. 'Season with salt. If not 
brown enough, add a. few drops of burnt sugar. 

374. SUPREME SAUCE. 

Make a white roux of 1 oz. of butter and ] oz. of flour ; dilute 
with lYn pints of chicken stock ; add 1 small onion, 1 half bay leaf, 
1 clove. Let simmer fifteen minutes, skim well. Then gradually 
stir in 1% tablespoonfuls of fresh butter, 1 tatjlespoonful of cream, 
one yolk of egg and the juice of % a lemon. Mix well over the 
fire, without boiling, and strain through cloth or fine wire sieve. 

375. SAUCE MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Put % pint of Bechamel sauce in stewpan with a little water, 
stir until it boils and boil down some. Beat in 3 ozs. of butter 
gradually, riib through cloth or fine sieve. Return to the fire, add 

1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of % a lemon, and pep- 
per and salt to taste, while simmering a few minutes. Excellent 
with all kinds of fish. 

376. SAUCE MAITRE D'HOTEL— NO. 2. 

Put into earthen dish 2 large tablespoonfuls of chopped pars- 
ley. Put in a little water and boil for a few minutes. Drain off 
the water and add 1 teacupful of good melted butter, the juice of 

2 lemons, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Let all boil for a few 
minutes. Serve hot, with almost any kind of roast or steak, and 
fish. 

For more elaborate dishes, the above preparation is not boiled 
by itself, but stirred into 3 cupfuls of white stock, into which, 
when boiling, 2 well beaten eggs have been stirred. Keep stirring, 
until all boils again and three minutes more. 

377. PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Take 3 tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, 1 of sugar and 1 of 
flour, mix thoroughly, stir in enough boiling water to make thick 



DEPARTMENT 7 137 

paste, and. set away. When cold add enough vinegar to make 
thin as desired. 

378. FRENCH MUSTARD. 

French mustard is made as follows: Pour enough boiling 
water on 2 tablespoonfuls of ground mustard to rt^ake paste, add 
1 teaspoon each of sugar and salt, a few drops of salad oil, or 1 
teaspoonful of butter, and work until smooth. Then work in 1 
tablespoonful of vinegar. Mustard is best when freshly made. It 
is not advisable to prepare in large quantities. 

379. TOMATO SAUCE. 

Brown in Yz cup of butter or meat drippings 1 onion, 1 carrot, 
1 small turnip sliced, and 1 small slice of ham, 1 bay leaf and a 
few whole peppers ; then add 1 pint of water and boil for ten 
minutes. Strain and add to the stock 1 can of tomatoes and 1 
tablespoonful of sugar; let all boil together for thirty or forty 
minutes ; stirring frequently to prevent scorching, then strain and 
press through sieve. 

May be served with almost all kinds of meat and fish. 

380. TOMATO SAUCE— NO. 2. 

One oz. of butter, 1 oz. of sliced bacon, 1 finely chopped 
onion, fried a little in stewpan. Stir in about 1 pound of tomatoes 
sliced, over the fire, stirring a few minutes, add 1 oz. of flour pre- 
viously mixed with a little cold stock or gravy. Then stir in grad- 
ually iy2 pints of stock, add a few peppercorns, some herbs and 
parsley, let simmer one hour. Remove the herbs, rub through 
sieve, return to stewpan over fire, add salt, pepper, a pinch of 
powdered sugar and i/^ a tablespoonful of butter, or 1 tablespoon- 
ful of cream. Stir smooth, but do not allow to boil again. 

381. MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Cut 1 can of mushrooms in slices, and put in saucepan with a 
lump of butter and 1 large tablespoonful of flour, let all cook to- 
gether, but brown slightly, if at all. Add the juice of 1 lemon, 1 



128 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and 1 pint of water or 
stock, stir all smooth, season with salt, a little cayenne pepper 
and serve hot. Good with roast beef and veal, also steak. 

382. CREAM MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Put in saucepan 1 lump of butter the size of a large egg, let 
melt, add 1 tablespoonful of flour and stir until smooth ; then add 
slowly 1 cupful of milk and about % a can of mushrooms and let 
come to boil. When it begins to thicken, place the pan in hot 
water until ready to serve. 

383. CHESTNUT SAUCE. 

Blanch (whiten) 2 cups of shelled chestnuts by putting into 
boiling water for three minutes, take off the skins, boil in salted 
water until soft, and mash. Make a brown roux of 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and 1 tablespoonful of flour in saucepan, stir in 
mashed chestnuts, cook three minutes, season with salt and pep- 
per to taste. Make a gravy of the drippings of roast poultry and 
stir in the chestnuts. Excellent for roast turkey. 

384. MINT SAUCE. 

Wash spearmint in slightly salted water, shake off water and 
cut fine with scissors, using the leaves only. For J4 cup of mint, 
dissolve 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar in 1 cup of vinegar, then add the 
mint and let stand one hour before serving. If wanted hot, heat 
the vinegar and sugar and put in the mint just before serving. 
Excellent with spring lamb. 

385. MINT JELLY. 

Soak 3 tablespoonfuls gelatin in 3 oz. cold water, add 1 cup 
granulated sugar to 3/3 cup minced mint (measure after chop- 
ping). Crush and let stand one hour. Pour over gelatin 1 cup- 
ful best vinegar, stir well and strain. Scald up quickly and pour 
over the mint and sugar. Stir until sugar dissolves. Cool in 
individual molds or in large one and break up afterwards. Place 



DEPARTMENT 7 139 

1 

on cut glass dish and garnish with mint leaves. Serve with roast 
young lamb. 

386. CURRY SAUCE. 

Stew 1 carrot and 2 onions sliced, 1 head of celery cut up, in 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter until tender, then add 1 pinch of pow- 
dered mace (outer hull of nutmeg) , 1 teaspoon each of curry and 
powdered thyme, 1 bay-leaf and 1 pint of water. Let come to 
boil, thicken with 1 tablespoonful of flour, strain and serve. Used 
for eggs, chicken, etc. 

387. CHILI SAUCE. 

Chop together 15 good-sized tomatoes, 4 red peppers and 3 
large onions, add 6 tablespoons sugar, 4 tablespoons salt, 2 heads 
celery chopped fine and 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Boil slowly, about 
one hour, until thick. 

388. OLIVE SAUCE. 

Soak 1 dozen olives in warm water for half an hour, remove 
the stones by paring the meat away in one ribbon as an apple is 
pared, simmer the ribbons in % a pint of brown sauce for ten or 
fifteen minutes and serve. For roast duck or game. 

389. NAVY SAUCE. 

Large onions cut fine and highly seasoned with salt, pepper 
and vinegar. Served with raw or cooked oysters. 

390. JELLY SAUCE, 

Melt in saucepan ^ a cupful of currant (or grape) jelly, stir 
in gradually 1 tablespoonful of butter over the fire. Let boil one 
minute, remove from the fire, add 1 tablespoonful of claret or ma- 
deira and serve. Especially good for venison and game. 

39L CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut up fine 2 stalks of good celery, leaves and all, and boil in 
saucepan for ten or fifteen minutes ; drain off the water and put 



130 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

in pan with the celery 1 lump of butter the size of an egg, and 1 
tablespoonful of flour ; cook, but do not brown, then add 1 pint 
of milk and season with salt and pepper, stir until smooth and 
serve hot. 

392. CREAM OF CELERY SAUCE. 

Remove the tops of 1 small head of celery, to prevent the bit- 
ter taste. Wash the remainder, parboil, drain and put in cold 
water. When cold, cut into small pieces, put in saucepan with 
1 pint of milk diluted with 1 cup of cold stock, add some salt, boil 
up, skim and let simmer till tender. Make a white roux of 1 oz. 
of flour and 1 oz. butter in a saucepan, add gradually the milk and 
celery, mixing well, let boil, pass through a cloth or fine wire 
sieve, return to fire, season with salt, pepper and a trace of nut- 
meg, stirring constantly. When it begins to boil, remove froin 
fire, add a little cream, and if not used at once, keep hot in pan with 
hot water. 

393. APPLESAUCE. 

Peel, quarter and core 6 medium-sized, tart apples. Put at 
once in graniteware saucepan with water enough to cover, and 
boil until tender. Rub through a sieve, stir in teaspoonful of but- 
ter and sugar to taste, and when dished, dust a little powdered cin- 
namon on top. Good with roast pork or goose. 

394. NEW ENGLAND APPLE SAUCE. 

Prepare as above, enough tart apples to fill an earthen jar. 
Add 1 scant pint of granulated sugar, pour i^ a cup of water over 
it, and cover tightly. Put in the oven after the last meal of the 
day, and let cook slowly until morning. 



395. RHUBARB SAUCE. 

Stew 2 pounds each of rhubarb and sugar with the juice and 
grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 cupful of raisins, without any water, 
until of the desired consistency, stirring frequently. When done, 
cool quickly and serve. 



DEPARTMENT 7 131 

396. CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Place 1 quart of cranberries in graniteware saucepan in lay- 
ers, topping each layer with sugar, using 1 pound of sugar in all. 
Add 1 cup of cold water and cook until tender without stirring. 
Serve hot or cold. 

If the cranberries are carefully picked over and washed, the 
skins improve the sauce. For making a jelly, strain and put in 
molds to cool; 

397. CRANBERRY SAUCE— NO. 2. 

Pick and wash 1 pound of cranberries, put in stewpan with 3 
gills of water and 1 pinch of soda. When it begins to boil, re- 
move scum, then add ^ pound of sugar, cover and boil gently for 
twenty minutes. Uncover, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, put 
on hot fire until the liquid begins to thicken. Strain into earthen 
vessel or mold, and let cool. 

398. BREAD SAUCE. 

Cut 1 onion into quarters and boil in 1 pint of milk until soft. 
Break % pound of stale bread (without the crust) into clean 
saucepan, strain the milk over the pot, cover up and let stand one 
hour. Then beat with fork until smooth, add 1 oz. of butter, a 
little powdered mace, cayenne and salt, let come to a boil, remove 
from the fire, stir in 1 tablespoonful of cream if desired, and serve. 
Good with roast poultry, game, etc. 

399. BREAD SAUCE— NO. 2. 

Boil up 1 pint of milk with 1 small onion, in which 1 clove has 
been stuck, stir in 4 ozs. of bread crumbs, 4 peppercorns, cook 
slowly for fifteen minutes. Take out the onion and peppercorn, 
stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of creim, % oz. of butter and a pinch of 
salt. Keep hot till required. . 

The onion may be left in till tender, passed through a sieve 
and returned to the sauce. The cream may be omitted, or a little 
hot water added if too thick. 

This is a good sauce for roasted poultry and game birds. 



133 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

400. CHUTNEY SAUCE. 

Peel, core and slice 15 tart apples, cover with vmegar in gran- 
iteware stewpan, stew until soft and mash. Add 1 large onion, 1 
clove of garlic chopped fine, 1 cup of granulated sugar, i/^ cup of 
seeded and chopped raisins, Yz tablespoonful of ground ginger, 
J4 teaspoon of mustard, and a little salt, let all come to a boil, 
and let stand till next day. Then add enough cold vinegar to get 
the right consistency, bottle and cork tightly. Keep in a cool, 
dark place. Excellent for either meat or fish. 

401. UNIVERSAL SAUCE. 

Take 1 yolk of egg and 1 tablespoonful each of made mustard, 
rich stock, best vinegar, powdered sugar and melted butter. Put 
all together on the fire and stir smooth, without boiling. The 
sauce should be thick, but if too thick, add a little more butter or 
stock or both. 

Good with any kind of meat. 

402. CHAMPAGNE SAUCE. 

Bring to a boil, 1 cup of champagne, 3 cloves, 4 peppercorns, 
1 bayleaf, (from laurel tree), and % teaspoonful of sugar. Let 
simmer for five minutes, add 1 cup of brown sauce, cook gently 
for ten minutes more and strain. Nice for baked ham. Any cham- 
pagne or light, sweet, white wine will do. 



403. SOUBISE SAUCE. 

Chop 4 medium-sized onions, fry until soft in 1 tablespoonful 
of good butter, rub through a strainer and mix into 1 cup of hot 
brown sauce. 

404. ONION SAUCE. 

Slice 4 or 5 onions, fry a light yellow color in 1 tablespoonful 
of butter, then stir in 1 cup or more of stock and season with salt 
and lemon juice. If desired thicker, put 1 tablespoonfiil of flour 
in at the start. 



DEPARTMENT 7 133 

For meat take meat-stock, for fish take fish stock or some of 
the water in which the fish was boiled. 

405. ONION SAUCE— NO. 2. 

Boil 3 good-sized onions until tender, in water, rub through 
a sieve and stir into 1 cup of white sauce. Nice with lamb or mut- 
ton chops. 

406. SAUCE BEARNAISE. 

Beat well two yolks of eggs in bowl, stir in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of best salad oil, add 1 tablespoonful of hot water, place the bowl 
in boiling water and keep stirring until the egg begins to thicken. 
Then remove from the boiling water and season with salt, pepper 
and a little vinegar. 

This sauce is very much like mayonnaise and should be 
creamy. It is nice for cold boiled fish, if colored red with tomato 
sauce, and with a few capers and chopped olives and gherkins will 
serve nicely as a sauce Tartare. 

407. TOMATO BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Put 2 or 3 egg yolks, 1 teaspoonful of butter and 1 tablespoon- 
ful of water in a double boiler and stir over the fire until the 
eggs thicken. Then stir in 2 more tablespoonfuls of butter, little 
by little; also % saltspoonful each of salt and paprika. Then 
blend with % cupful of hot tomato sauce, remove from the fire 
and stir in 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice or tarragon vinegar. 

408. LEMON SAUCE. 

Beat well 2 yolks of eggs in saucepan, add 2 ozs. of powdered 
sugar, ^ oz. of cornstarch, and the rind of % a lemon chopped 
fine. Mix well, gradually stir in ^ pint of boiling milk. Whisk 
over the fire, until it acquires the desired consistency and strain. 

409. OYSTER SAUCE. 

Put 13 oysters with the natural liquor and 1 oz. of butter in 
saucepan. Cover and heat until just before boiling. Remove from 



134 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

fire. Take the oysters out with strainer, cut in halves or quarters. 
Return the liquor to fire, boil down to half the quantity, then add 
% pint of Bechamel sauce. When hot again, bind with 1 yolk of 
egg. Do not let boil again. Put in 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 
and the oysters. Stir gently until all is hot, add salt and pepper 
to taste and serve hot in sauce boat. Fine with fish, boiled tur- 
key or chicken. 

410. HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Mix 4 tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish with 1 teaspoonful 
each of powdered sugar and salt, % teaspoonful of pepper, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of made mustard and enough vinegar to give the con- 
sistency of cream. Finally, if desired, fold in 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls 
of cream. 

If to be served with hot roast beef, heat the sauce in water, but 
do not allow it to boil. 



411. HORSERADISH SAUCE— NO. 2. 

Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in saucepan, stir in 1 tablespoonful 
flour, or breadcrumbs; do not let turn yellow. Stir in stock 
enough to ftiake the desired quantity of sauce (from 1 to 1% cups). 
When hot, add the grated horseradish (% cup), season with salt 
and pepper, and serve at once. Do not let it boil. Excellent for 
boiled beef. 

For boiled fish a sauce is made by mixing % cup of whipped 
cream and a little salt with % cup of grated horseradish. 



412. CREAM HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs until extra light, then add 4 table- 
spoonfuls of grated horseradish and beat for two or three minutes 
longer. Beat 1 pint of cream stiff and add to it the well beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, then slowly add the yolks and horseradish. Last 
of all, add 1 tablespoonful of vinegar or the juice of 1 lemon and 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Delicious with cold meats. 



DEPARTMENT 7 135 

413. ICED HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Stir together 1 cup of finely grated horseradish, 1 gill cream, 2 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each of powdered sugar and 
made mustard. Put in freezer, until half frozen. Excellent with 
boiled meat, poultry or fish. 



414. TARTAR SAUCE. 

Heat 2 tablespoonfuls each of cider vinegar and Worcester- 
shire sauce, 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice and % teaspoonful of 
salt in bowl set in hot water. Brown % cup of butter in saucepan 
and stir into the other ingredients. Serve hot with boiled fish. 

Do not make the mistake of confounding this sauce with the 
following one. 

415. SAUCE TARTARS. 

Place a bowl in a larger one containing crushed ice. Put in 2 
yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 pinch of white pepper, 1 
of red pepper, 1 teaspoonful of mustard. Mix well. Gradually 
stir in 1 pint of salad oil and 14 g'H of vinegar. (See Mayonnaise). 
When smooth and creamy, not before, stir in 1 large tablespoonful 
of cold Bechamel sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped gherkins, 1 of 
chopped capers, 1 of chopped parsley, and about 1 teaspoonful of 
finely chopped tarragon and chervil. If too thick, thin with a 
few drops of lemon juice. 

416. CAMBRIDGE SAUCE FOR COLD MEATS. 

A very delicate and appetizing sauce. 

Pound 4 hard boiled yolks of eggs, 2 boned anchovies, 1 ta- 
blespoonful" of capers, and 1 sprig of tarragon and chervil (or sim- 
ilar herbs) in a mortar. Add 1 dessertspoonful of French mus- 
tard, 1 teaspoonful of English mustard, 1 pinch of red pepper, 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls dive oil and 1 tablespoonful vinegar. Rub all through 
fine wire sieve, stir in little more oil and half as much vinegar -un- 
til of the desired consistency. Keep on ice till wanted. Just be- 
fore servng sprinkle with little chopped parsley or olive. No salt. 



136 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

417. COLD SWEDISH SAUCE. 

Whip % gill of cream, gradually stir in 1 gill of mayonnaise, 1 
tablespoonful of French mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls of grated horse- 
radish, add 1 pinch of powdered sugar, and if needed, a little salt. 

Excellent for roasts and game. 

418. COLD CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Peel and cut into small pieces 1 small cucumber or % a large 
one. Boil in salted water till tender, rub through fine sieve, re- 
turn to stewpan, add % gill of Bechamel sauce, boil down to about 
half the quantity and let cool. Whip % gill of cream stitf, work 
in 1 gill of mayonnaise and ^/^ teaspoonful French mustard, mix 
slowly with the cold sauce, add salt and pepper to taste, if needed, 
and if desired, a few drops of spinach coloring. Suitable for aspar- 
agus, boiled fish, lobster, etc. 

419. CHIVES SAUCE. 

Excellent for boiled beef, either hot or cold. Rub fine 3 yolks 
of hard-boiled eggs and 1 tablespoonful of sour cream, then add 
a little vinegar, 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce or liquid beef 
extract and 3 tablespoonfuls best olive oil, slowly, and stirring 
continuously. When the oil begins to disappear, add 1 table- 
spoonful of chives chopped extra fine; pepper and salt to taste 
and enough more vinegar to get the proper consistency. Pour the 
sauce over the slices of meat and serve with a salad or boiled 
potatoes. 

420. COLD SPINACH SAUCE. 

Steep a few sprigs of tarragon, chervil and parsley in boiling 
water for a few minutes ; drain, pound in mortar with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cooked spinach; rub through a fine sieve. Pound 2 hard 
boiled egg-yolks and 1 boned anchovy, and add. Stir in y^ giU of 
cream and rub through a sieve. Stir in 1 gill mayonnaise and % 
gill cold Bechamel sauce, and add a little pepper and salt and 1 
teaspoonful of made mustard. For fish. 



DEPARTMENT 'i 137 

421. PLAIN ENGLISH SAUCE. 

Peel and grate 3 medium-sized, cold, boiled potatoes. Press 
3 yolks of hard-boiled eggs through a sieve and mix with the 
potato. Then add 5 tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls each of stock and vinegar, some chopped parsley and salt 
and pepper to taste, and stir until smooth. The sauce should be 
rather thick and is served with cold meat. 

422. MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Nice on boiled beef. Stir J4 pound best butter until frothy, 
work in yolks of 6- eggs, l/^ cup of prepared mustard (French 
preferred), 1 teaspoonful flour, the juice of % lemon, and sugar 
to taste. When smooth, add 2 cups of claret and enough stock to 
make the sauce smooth and thin. Just before serving bring the 
sauce to a boil, stirring continuovisly, remove from the fire quickly, 
and, if desired, add 4 or 5 drops of liquid beef extract. The indi- 
cated quantity is sufficient for ten persons. 

423. MUSTARD SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Melt 3 tablespoonfuls of butter over the fire. When it rises, 
stir in quickly 14 cup of French mustard and serve at once. 
Excellent for haddock and similar fish, boiled. 

424. SPICED MUSTARD. 

Boil in strong vinegar 2 or 3 chopped onions, 1 top of garlic, 
1 bay leaf, 1 pepper pod, 1 sprig of parsley or mint, and 1 tea- 
spoonful each of whole pepper, cloves and salt for half an hour, 
strain, and when cool mix with mustard. 

Excellent for cold meat. Will keep in sealed bottle. 

425. EAST INDIAN FISH SAUCE. 

Melt 1^ oz. of butter, add ^^ small onion finely chopped. 
When lightly browned, stir in }i oz. of sifted flour and 1 table- 
spoonful of curry-powder. Mix well and cook about five minutes. 
Gradually add 3 gills of good fish stock, stirring constantly ; add 1 



138 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

sliced tomato and some herbs. Stir until it comes to a boil ; then 
add % glass of sherry or other wine, season to taste, cook twenty 
minutes and strain. 

426. SAUCE FOR SALT FISH. 

Heat 1 cup of milk, but do not allow to boil. Stir in 1 tea- 
spoonful of corn starch moistened with a little water. Keep stir- 
ring until it begins to thicken. Then add 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, 1 teaspoon ful of chopped parsley and pepper and a Ittle salt. 
Take off the fire. Beat 1 egg lightly, keep beating while slowly 
adding the milk, put back on the fire and stir for one minute, then 
pour over the fish. Serve at once. 

427. SAUCE COLBERT. 

Bring % pint of water to boil, with salt and pepper, draw the 
pot a little away from the hot fire, add to the water, little by 
little, % a pound of best butter, constantly beating with a broad 
knife. When well blended, add gradually and while constantly 
beating, the juice of 2 lemons. If there is danger of curdling dash 
in a few drops of cold water. When smooth, stir in a handful of 
chopped parsley. Excellent for boiled fish. 

428. VICTORIA SAUCE FOR FISH. - 

Put J4 pound of butter, cut up in bits, in saucepan which is 
standing in a vessel containing boiling water. Stir in the yolks 
of 4 eggs, also 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 3 teaspoonfuls of best 
vinegar (tarragon if possible) and ^ gill of boiled down fish 
stock. Season with pepper, salt and a grating of nutmeg. Stir in 
another J4 pound of butter in bits, gradually, and keep in hot 
water till used. While cooking, the surrounding water must be 
kept boiling, but the sauce must not boil. 

429. SAUCE A LA DIABLE. 

Excellent with cold pork and other cold meats. Take the 
yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of claret or port, 4 



DEPARTMENT 7 139 

tablespoonfuls best sweet oil, 1 tablespoonful mustard, the juice 
of 1 large lemon, 1 sour apple, peeled, cored and chopped fine, 1 
or 2 carrots chopped fine, a little sugar, white pepper and salt, 
and if desired a spoonful of vinegar. Rub the yolks fine in a little 
vinegar, then work in the oil little by little, add the other ingredi- 
ents and work until the oil no longer appears on the surface. 

BUTTER COMPOUNDS. 

Butter may be prepared in many ways, to be put on broiled 
meat or fish the last moment, or to be served with cold meat or 
game, or to make sandwiches. A few such compounds follow: 

430. MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Chop 1 teaspoonful of parsley, 1 sprig of tarragon, 1 of chervil 
fine, and mix with 1 oz. of butter; 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice 
and a pinch of salt and pepper. Keep on ice. 



431. LOBSTER BUTTER. 

Take the. boiled roe (eggs) and coral of a lobster. Wash and 
dry, pound in a mortar and work into a paste with double quantity 
of butter. Rub through fine sieve and keep in cool place. 

The same applies to boiled shrimps and anchovies. 

Butter may also be worked into paste with lemon juice, or 
grated cheese, with paprika pepper or lean ham and cream, with 
chutney and mustard, with red pepper and a pinch each of curry- 
powder and ground ginger (devilled butter), and so forth, 



432. HORSERADISH BUTTER. 

Grate 1 horseradish root, scraped clean. Mix with % pound 
butter, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar and 1 of lemon juice, and pepper 
and salt. Rub through fine sieve, spread on plate, put on ice. 
When cold, cut in desired shapes and serve with broiled steak. 



140 



SALADS. 




CABBAGE-SAVbiJSTUfPED 



CAUliIFbOWER. 
WITH-EGGS'".^ CHEESU-SAOfiE 




i ^^^^-P^ATO-,^,, n eREW^-SA«<^^-^^^^^'*^'''' 1 



Copyright, 1908, by Wm. H. Lee. 




SALADS 




Department 8. 

CONTRARY to the common idea, salads are not difficult to make, if the 
recipes are carefully followed. Pure vinegar, salt, pepper and mustard 

prevent the fermentation of fresh vegetables in the stomach, but they 
should not be used to excess, and good oil is very nutritious and aids diges< 
tion. A salad, therefore, should form part of every midday or evening meal. 

Salads should be cold and never served or put on the table without 
dressing of some kind. French dressing generally preferred. Of the different 
oils olive is the best. Cotton-seed oil and beech oil are cheaper and prefer- 
able to adultrated and rancid olive oil. Pure melted butter is also recom- 
mended. Lettuce forms the basis for most all salads. Serve crisp. 

433. THE MERRY WIDOW SALAD. 

Use a glass bowl about six inches across in which insert an- 
other one two sizes smaller, allowing about one inch space be- 
tween the two bowls, which should be filled with cracked ice to 
come up even with the top or a little higher, to make a contrast, 
but, of course, care must be taken to not let the water run over 
the edge of the outside bowl. Place in the smaller bowl a lining 
of crisp lettuce leaves then several pieces of the solid white meat 
of fresh lobster or crab and between each piece of the meat, 
put asparagus cut the proper length so that the tips will hang a 
little over the edge of the glass. In the center place small chopped 
carrots — turnips, French peas and French string beans (already 

141 



143 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

prepared), and to complete the effect pour a little French dress- 
ing over the salad, then put one spoonful of Mayonnaise or some 
other equally good dressing in the center. To make more decor- 
ative stick sprigs of parsley in the ice and limes or lemons cut in 
halves or quarters with the peeling on or off as preferred. 

434. MERRY WIDOW SALAD No. 2. 

Line salad dish with crisp fresh lettuce ; then take 3 pieces of 
sliced orange and arrange around the side of the dish to come up 
to the edge, to form a contrast with the lettuce ; fill in with slices 
of one banana cut round and about six strawberries ; cover with 
whipped cream (cream beaten to a froth) and place on top one 
or two red cherries. If the fruits are choice and the directions 
carefully followed this will be a novel and appetizing dish. Ord- 
inarily regarded as a portion for one, but really sufficient for two. 

435. LETTUCE AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Clean and wash the lettuce, shake dry and put in the ice box. 
Peel the tomatoes and put on ice. When ready to serve, dress 
the lettuce with vinegar, oil (or melted butter), salt and pepper. 
Arrange the lettuce in the salad bowl, quarter, or slice the toma- 
toes, and arrange in middle of the bowl. Mayonnaise dressing. 

436. WILTED LETTUCE CREAMED. 

Take 3 thin slices of salt pork and put in the frying pan. Heat 
until the grease fries out and then turn into the pan 1 cup of sour 
or sweet cream, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of 
sugar and let them get hot. Then wash the lettuce, place in a 
separate dish and pour the hot cream over it and serve. 

437. SPINACH SALAD. 

Take J4 a peck of fresh, crisp spinach, wash thoroughly in sev- 
eral waters, put in steamer and steam for about ten minutes, turn 
into a colander and drain ; then chop fine, season with salt, pepper, 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; mix well and press into 
small molds or cups. When cold, place each form on lettuce leaf 
and put 1 spoonful of good salad dressing on each. 



DEPARTMENT 8 143 

438, POTATO SALAD. 

Boil small potatoes in the skin, when quite done, drain, peel 
and slice thin, while hot. Fry some lean bacon (3 or 3 ozs. for 
every pound of potato), cut dice shape. When almost brown, put 
in Y2 small onion chopped fine, cook a moment and pour it all 
over the warm potatoes. Mix well by shaking and tossing, and 
season with salt and pepper. Make a mixture of 3 parts of mayon- 
naise with 1 part of vinegar and pour over the potatoes. Mix well 
by shaking and tossing. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve 
as it is, or cold, but never ice-cold. 

Instead of mayonnaise, some good stock may be used. 

439. POTATO SALAD— NO. a. 

Cut in % inch cubes (dice shaped) 3 quarts of cold boiled po- 
tatoes, 1 large Spanish onion, 2 heads of celery, and 4 hard boiled 
eggs; season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Melt in a 
stewpan a lump of butter the size of an tgg, add 1 tablespoonful 
of flour; cook, but do not brown; then add 1 cupful of milk or 
water. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with 1 tablespoonful of sugar 
and 1 teaspoonful of mustard; add 3/3 of a cupful of vinegar, 
and stir all in with the sauce in the stewpa,n ; let it come to a boil, 
stirring all the time, and set away to cool. When cold, pour over 
the remainder of the salad, mix well, and serve. 

440. CABBAGE SALAD. 

Chop % medium sized head of cabbage extra fine ; add 4 tea- 
spoonfuls of celery seed, or 1 head of celery well ciit. Beat in a 
bowl the yolks of 3 eggs, add 1 teaspoonful each of sugar, butter, 
pepper, mustard, and 3/3 of a cup of vinegar. Set the bowl in hot 
water and stir until thick. Set aside, and when cold, pour over 
the cabbage. Mix well and serve. 

441. CABBAGE SALAD— NO. 2. 

Take 3 quarts of finely chopped cabbage, and season with 3 
level teaspoonfuls of salt, 3 of white sugar, 1 of black pepper, 1 of 



144 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

ground mustard ; rub the yolks of 4 hard boiled eggs until smooth ; 
add y^ cupful of butter slightly warmed; mix thoroughly with 
the cabbage ; then add 1 teacupful of good cider vinegar. Serve 
with whites of eggs, sliced and placed on the salad. 

442. COMBINATION SALAD. 

(Asparagus and Salmon) 

Put 2 bunches asparagus into saucepan with 1 quart cold water 
and 1 tablespoonful salt, and boil twenty mniutes. Take out, cut 
off the points and put on sieve to drain. Put 1 quart cooked salmon 
into basin, and mix in 3 tablespoonfuls oil, 2 of strained lemon 
juice, and 1 of vinegar; sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful salt, 1/3 tea- 
spoon of pepper. Put the basin in ice-box, and let remain two 
hours. Turn out on dish, put round the asparagus points when 
cold, pour 1 cupful of mayonnaise or other appropriate salad- 
dressing over the salmon, and serve with a garnish of slices of 
lemon cut in triangles, put round the dish. (See Recipe No. 1328.) 

443. COLD SLAW. 

Slice cabbage very fine, and season with salt, pepper and sugar 
to taste. Pour vinegar over all, and mix thoroughly. 

444. LADY WASHINGTON SALAD. 
(Inexpensive and quickly made). 
Boil 6 medium sized potatoes, then cut dice shape, chop fine 
good sized onion and three hard boiled eggs ; add a few slices of 
cucumbers if desired ; then pour over this the salad dressing made 
as follows : Take 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful dry mustard (mixed 
with a little water) % teaspoon salt, a piece of butter the size 
of egg (melted) and 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 
sugar. Beat the eggs well, then add the mustard, salt and sugar. 
Beat a little more and then add the melted butter and vinegar. 
Set the bowl over boiling water and stir constantly until thick 
and smooth. Set away to cool and to make exceptionally fine, 
add cup of whipped cream to the dressing after it is cold ; if not 
convenient to whip cream, use either sweet or sour cream. 



DEPARTMENT 8 145 

445. RAW CUCUMBERS. 

Cucumbers do not agree with every stomach, but as this is 
also true of strawberries, it is no reason why people who enjoy 
them should not eat them. It is said that drinking milk after 
eating cucumber salad causes trouble. Of course it does. The 
vinegar in lettuce or cucumber salad coagulates the milk in the 
stomach into hard curds, sometimes causing violent pains. But 
the combination of milk and vinegar is at fault, not the cucumber. 

Cucumbers, like other vegetables, should be perfectly fresh. 
After peeling carefully, place in water (not salted) for a short 
time to became crisp (especially if a little wilted). Cut in extra 
thin slices, dress with pepper and salt, oil (or sugar) and a little 
vinegar, put on ice, and serve cold. As a rule, sliced tomatoes or 
lettuce or both are served with cucumbers. Raw cucumbers 
should never be served without some kind of dressing. 

446. CUCUMBERS AND CREAM. 

A dainty relish. Peel and slice 1 large cucumber moderately 
thin, put on ice until thoroughly cold. Take 1 cup of good fresh 
cream, 1 pinch of salt and 1 of pepper, also a scant teaspoonful 
each of vinegar and sugar, stir together and pour over the sliced 
cucumber. Avoid using too much vinegar, sour or tainted cream, 

447. CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel the cucurnbers thinly, cut into thin slices, pour over 2 
parts of oil and 1 part of vinegar well mixed, season with "pepper, 
salt and a little chopped parsley, mix well by tossing or stirring 
and set on ice a short while. Just before serving, dust over some 
more pepper. Lettuce or celery may be used instead of parsley. 

It is the wrong idea to suppose that cucumbers are unwhole- 
some, or that the juice should be squeezd out before eating them. 
People with whom cucumbers do not agree, of course should not 
eat them. Cucumbers should be fresh and not too ripe. 

448. CUCUMBER AND CELERY SALAD. 

Cut white crisp celery stalks into long shreds and put in ice 
water for half an hour. Peel and cut 1 cucumber the same way 



146 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

leaving out the seed part, and put with the celery, drained, in a 
salad bowl, season with salt, pepper and mayonnaise. Heap up 
in center neatly, surround with red radishes, garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and 
gherkins. One part vinegar and 3 parts of oil will take the place 
of the mayonnaise. 

449. BEAN SALAD. 

String young beans, cut into inch lengths and boil in salt and 
water until tender; drain well, and to 1 quart of beans, add 1 chop- 
ped onion; take 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 of salad oil, or 
melted butter, salt and pepper to taste. Beat the vinegar and oil 
together, add the seasoning, and pour over the beans and onions ; 
mix well, and set away one or two hours before using. 

450. CARROT SALAD. 

Take young carrots, wash, boil until tender, then slice very 
thin. In each individual salad dish put a spoonful of the carrot 
on a bed of crisp lettuce leaves (the white leaves of head lettuce 
look best), and put a spoonful of salad dressing on top of each 
one. 

45L BIRD'S NEST SALAD. 

Put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise or French salad dressing 
in as many individual salad dishes as there are persons to be 
served, arrange over it the curled, crisp leaves of head lettuce 
to resemble a bird's nest. Make eggs by rolling into shape 
Neufchatel or Cottage cheese and place five in each nest. A 
little chopped parsley or brown sugar sprinkled over the eggs 
will speckle them very satisfactorily. Considered fine for a 
luncheon. 

45!3. EGG SALAD. 

Stir together 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
two-thirds cupful of vinegar and a lump of butter the size of a 
walnut. Cook in double boiler, stirring all the time, and when 
cooked, stir in 14 aipful of hot sweet milk, then set aside to 



DEPARTMENT 8 147 

cool. When ready to serve, add 1^^ dozen hard boiled eggs 
chopped fine and garnished with nice crisp lettuce leaves and 
sliced red radishes, pickled beets, or capers, olives, etc. 

453, SCRAMBLED EGG SALAD. 

Select nice, even-sized tomatoes, cut in halves, scoop out 
the pulp and fill the hollows with scrambled egg well seasoned. 
When cold, spread enough mayonnaise on each to cover the egg, 
and if you have it put a thin layer of aspic on top. Arrange 
neatly in a circle on a cold dish, garnish with gherkins and beets, 
cut in fancy shapes, fill the center with lettuce and sliced toma- 
toes all cut in fine strips and seasoned with pepper, salt, oil 
and vinegar, and serve cold. 

i 
454. SALMON SALAD. 

Wash carefully the leaves of 3 nice crisp heads of lettuce and 
shake free from moisture. Arrange the leaves on round or oval 
dish about 2 inches deep, the darker leaves next the outside 
and the lighter ones in the center. Take 1 can of best salmon, 
or its equivalent in fresh cooked salmon ; with fork pick to' small 
flakes and place in the middle of the dish on the lettuce. Season 
the salmon with salt and little cayenne, and pour over it 1 table- 
spoonful of vinegar and the juice of 1 lemon ; then set aside in the 
ice box for an hour or two. When ready to serve, pour I tea- 
cupful of mayonnaise dressing over the fish ; sprinkle a few capers 
on top of that, and serve. 

Any boiled fish of large size, like whitefish, haddock, red snap- 
per, pickerel, etc., can be prepared in the same manner. Fish left 
over from dinner cannot be utilized in any better way. Even 
vinegar alone improves it greatly. It must be understood, of 
course, that the fish must be fresh and not tainted. 

455. LOBSTER SALAD. 

Split 1 large, heavy lobster, boiled half an hour, lengthwise, 
take all the meat from claws and shell, laying the coral aside. 



148 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Cut the meat into neat cubes (dice shape). Wash and trim 2 
heads of lettuce, break the leaves up, reserving the cdres. Mix 
the lettuce with the lobster-meat in the bowl, season with a little 
red pepper and salt. Rub the coral smooth and mix very slowly 
into a dressing made of 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks, 2 fresh yolks, 
1 tablespoonful of made mustard, 3 of oil, 3 of vinegar, 1 of 
powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Pour 
over the lobster meat and lettuce, place the lettuce cores in cen- 
ter and decorate with slices or sections of hard-boiled eggs, lob- 
ster claws, etc. 

456. ITALIAN SALAD. 

Cut % pound of roast veal and % pound of boiled potato into 
small cubes (dice shape). Also % pound each of pickled beets and 
gherkins and add, with 1 tablespoonful of ca:pers. Mix well and 
season to taste. Put in bowl with handful of crisp, curly lettuce 
leaves, pour mayonnaise sauce over and garnish with stoned 
olives, thin slices of smoked Italian sausage and slices of lemon. 

457. HERRING SALAD. 

Soak 2 salt herrings over night in cold water, remove the skin 
and bones, and mince fine. Cut into cubes (dice shape) 1 cold 
boiled beet, 1 onion, 1 large pickle, 1 sour apple, 2 hard-boiled 
eggs and 2 cold boiled potatoes, add i/^ cupful of cold meat (veal 
preferred) cut fine; mix all well with the herring, moisten with 
sauce made of good stock, vinegar, a little claret, mustard and 
pepper. Let stand over night in a porcelain dish, stir once more 
thoroughly and see that all is juicy. Then garnish in concentric 
rings with chopped parsley, white of egg, yellow of egg and beets. 

458. BOILED BEEF SALAD. 

Cut cold boiled beef into % inch cubes (dice shape) and soak 
them for two hours in mixture of 1 part salad oil, 3 parts vinegar, 
a little onion juice, salt and half as much pepper. This is called 
marinating. Drain off any marinade that has not been absorbed, 
and mix the meat with cold boiled potatoes cut the same way, and 



DEPARTMENT 8 149 

chopped parsley. Just before serving, pour over French dressing 
or mayonnaise. Garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs and lettuce. 

459. CHICKEN SALAD. 

Remove the skin from 2 boiled chickens, and cut the meat fine 
with a knife ; cut up 2 or 3 heads of celery and add to the chicken : 
season with salt, common pepper, or cayenne, or a little of both 
if preferred; pour over the whole cold Mayonnaise dressing, mix, 
and serve. 

460. CHICKEN SALAD— NO. 2. 

For 1 pair of boiled fowls allow 3 heads of celery. Take the 
skin from the chickens, pick the meat from the bones, chop fine, 
and mix with cut celery ; cut the white meat in % inch cubes (dice 
shape) and add ; boil the livers, rub through sieve, and put in a 
bowl rubbed with a bit of onion ; add the yolks of 5 hard boiled 
eggs rubbed to a paste, 4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, or melted but- 
ter, 2 tablespoonfuls of prepared mustard, 1 of sugar, 1 heaping 
teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne pepper, 1 level teaspoonful of 
grated lemon peel, and 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and thick 
cream. Beat well together and mix with the chicken just before 
serving. 

46L TONGUE SALAD. 

Boil, skin, trim and slice 1 tongue, cut in dice, add the whites 
of 6 hard boiled eggs and the white stalks of 3 heads of celery dll 
cut dice-shape, and mix with the tongue and eggs. Make a dress- 
ing as follows : Beat together 4 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
5 of melted butter, 1 of prepared mustard, 1 of sugar, and 3/3 
cup of cream ; put over the fire in a double boiler, and cook until 
as thick as boiled custard. Set aside to cool ; season with salt 
and a little cayenne, thin with lemon juice, if too thick ; mix with 
the tongue and other ingredients, and serve at once. 

462. APPLE SALAD. 

Pare 6 or 8 tart apples and cut into extra thin slices; cover 
the bottom of a salad dish with a layer of these slices and sprinkle 



150 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

with little powdered sugar and a dust of cipnamon, then another 
layer of apples and so on until all are used. Pour over this a pint 
of unfermented grape juice and place on the ice for one hour be- 
fore using. Or, alternate the layers of apple with layers of 
banana. 

463. MEDLEY SALAD. 

Chop fine a fe,w stalks of white, crisp celery, 2 onions, 1 sour 
apple, 1 nice head of lettuce and 1 hard-boiled egg. Mix well 
with mayonnaise dressing and serve on individual salad dishes, 
garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs and white, crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

464. CHATELAINE SALAD. 

Cut celery, olives and pineapples in Julienne (thin and long) 
slices, use a dressing of mayonnaise, whipped cream, malt-vinegar 
and paprika (Hungarian pepper) ; mix well and serve on trisp let- 
tuce leaves. 

465. APPLE AND NUT SALAD. 

Cut equal quantities of celery and apple in cubes (dice shape) 
and mix with chopped walnuts: and mayonnaise dressing. 



466. GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Cut the fruit crosswise and pick out the pulp with silver fork, 
carefully avoiding seeds and the white, bitter membrane. 

Line salad dish with the white crisp leaves of head lettuce, 
then put in alternate layers of grape fruit and chopped English 
walnuts, until the dish is full, pour over all good salad dressing. 
Set on ice until ready to serve. 

467. ORANGE SALAD. 

Put layer of crisp lettuce leaves in the bottom of the salad 
dish and fill with alternate layers of sliced oranges and chopped 
nut meats. Put mayonnaise or oil dressing on top and set on ice 
until ready to serve. 



DEPARTMENT 8 151 

468. ORANGE SALAD— NO. 2. 

Peel and slice extra thin 6 seedless oranges and 4 bananas, ar- 
ranged in alternate layers in the dish in which the salad is to be 
served. Beat the yolks of 5 eggs for five minutes, add 1 large 
cupful of extra fine granulated or powdered sugar and beat until 
thick, then add a pinch of salt and the juice of 2 lemons, and beat 
again. Pour over the prepared fruit and set away on the ice, 
as it must be ice cold when served. 

469. PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Peel Yz ripe pineapple and shred except the core. Mix the 
shreds with an equal quantity of chopped celery, and put on ice. 
Just before serving mix in enough mayonnaise sauce to moisten 
and season the salad, and garnish with slices of lemon. Serve 
ice cold. 

470. MIXED FRUIT SALAD. 

Slice various kinds of fruits, fresh or preserved, such as ban- 
anas, oranges, grape fruit, apples, peaches, pineapple etc. Put in 
alternate layers in deep glass dish or salad bowl. Sprinkle each 
layer with powdered sugar, little sherry and half as much plain 
syrup. When all the fruit is in, place on ice for two hours. Just 
before serving, sprinkle over the surface Yz a wineglass of a cor- 
dial, such as Curacoa, Benedictine, or some sweet cider boiled 
down to one fourth of its quantity. 



471. FRUIT SALAD. 

Wash fresh, crisp lettuce thoroughly, soak in cold water one 
hour, and wipe dry. Fold in cloth, lay on ice and when cold place 
in salad plates, lay % of a pear, cored with skin removed, in center 
of each plate, with 10 cherries on lettuce around the pear; also 
small cheese ball. Make French dressing of oil, vinegar, salt and 
black pepper, also a very little red pepper. Not only delicious, 
but the green lettuce, the white pear, and the red cherries form a 
pleasing combination erf colors. 



152 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

473. SALAD DRESSING. 

Into 2 well beaten eggs, to which has been added 2 tabtespoon- 
fuls of oil or melted butter, stir the following mixture : One-half 
teaspoonful cornstarch, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful of 
mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Then add % cupful of vinegar and 1 cup of milk. Cook in double 
boiler until thick. 



473. SALAD DRESSING— NO. 2. 

One cup new cold milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls of 
sweet oil, % cup vinegar, salt, mustard and pepper. Beat the oil 
and eggs together slowly, add vinegar and milk. Put on fire in 
saucepan until thick, stir steadily while cooking. When done, 
let cool, then season with pepper, salt an,^ mustard. 



474. MAYONNAISE. 

The finest dressing for salads. Work ^ teaspoonful of pepper 
and % teaspoonful of salt into 2 fresh, raw yolks of egg with 
wooden spoon in cold basin, set on ice if possible. When per- 
fectly creamy, add 10 or 13 drops of best sweet oil and 1 drop or 
2 of best vinegar, work smooth again, always moving the spoon 
evenly, and in the same direction ; add the same quantity of oil 
and vinegar, and repeat this until 1 pint of sweet-oil has been 
used up. The desired consistency can be obtained by being 
more or less sparing with the vinegar. The proper proportion is 
about 1 teaspoonful of vinegar to 8 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

Like everything else it requires patience to make the sauce a 
success. Mayonnaise may be made white by adding, just before 
serving, 1 tablespoonful of cream whipped stiff, or the white of 1 
egg whipped stifif. A delicate green color may be obtained by 
pounding a little spinach, watercress or parsley in mortar with a 
little lemon ji^ice and adding the juice to the mayonnaise; it is 
then called Ravigote sauce. 



DEPARTMENT 8 153 

476. BOILED MAYONNAISE. 

Boil up in a small glazed saucepan i/^ cup of vinegar with 
butter the size of % an egg, 1 teaspoonful of mustard powder, a 
little sugar and pepper and salt to taste. Take off the fire and 
stir into 3 yolks of eggs. Pour back into the glazed saucepan, re- 
turn to the fire and stir until it begins to thicken. Set to cool. 
When cold, beat the whites of the eggs lightly and whisk them 
into the mayonnaise. If too thick, thin with good cream. The 
juice of 1 lemon is stirred in, if the mayonnaise is to be used for 
chicken or lobster salad. As it require^ no oil, many prefer it to 
the mayonnaise given above. 

476. BOILED MAYONNAISE— NO. 2. 

Put in stewpan lump of butter the size of an egg, and when 
melted work in 1 tablespoonful of flour ; then add 1 teacupful of 
milk or water and let come to a boil. Mix 3 beaten eggs with 1 
tablespoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, 1 teacupful 
of vinegar and salt and pepper to taste; stir into the other in- 
gredients in the sauce-pan, let boil and set away to cool. 

477. FRENCH DRESSING. 

Put 6 tablespoonfuls of salad oil in a bowl, add to it 3 table- 
spoonfuls of white wine vinegar, ^ teaspoonful of salt, a little 
cayenne, and a few drops of onion juice. Work smooth with 
beater and serve. A nice dressing for lettuce or tomatoes. 

478. CREAM DRESSING. 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs and work smooth with 1 tablespoonful 
of sugar, 1 dessertspoonful mustard, 9 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 3 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, 1 dessertspoonful salt, a dash of cayenne 
and 1 teacupful of well whipped sweet cream. 

479. TARTAR DRESSING. 

Stir into mayonnaise dressing capers or pickles chopped fine. 




IPPROMi 



TOSMEfflTHHSfl^MT^ 




Fish — Boiled. — Boiled potatoes, tomatoes, horseradish, melted 
butter, sliced lemon, tomato or tartar sauce. Fried. — Potatoes, 
cucumbers, tomatoes, lemon, sauce tartare. Baked. — Mashed 
potatoes, peas, corn, lettuce salad, drawn butter or Holland sauce. 

Beef- — Roasted. — Sweet potatoes, tomatoes, beets, string 
beans, squash, macaroni, mustard, horseradish. Boiled or Corned. 
— Fried or Lyonnaise potatoes, turnips, parsnips, cabbage, horse- 
radish sauce. Steak. — Fried or Saratoga potatoes, baked toma- 
toes, peas, corn, parsnips, squash. 

Veal — Boiled. — Mashed potatoes, spinach, macaroni and 
cheese, horseradish. Roasted. — Mashed potatoes, asparagus, 
sweet potatoes, parsnips, tomatoes with rice. Steak. — Potatoes, 
sweet potatoes, carrots and peas, spinach, tomatoes. 

Pork. — Pot^atoes, sweet potatoes, onions, tomatoes, apple 
sauce, baked apples. 

Mutton or Lamb, Boiled or Roasted. — Mashed potatoes, 
asparagus, cauliflower, peas, turnips, currant jelly, Jerusalem 
artichokes, mint or caper sauce. Chops. — Boiled potatoes, fried 
sweet potatoes, salsify, pickled beets, tomato sauce. 

Turkey, — Potatoes, sweet potatoes, squash, onions, parsnips, 
string beans, oyster plant, acid jelly, oyster or cranberry sauce. 

Chicken — Boiled. — Potatoes, boiled rice, tomatoes, turnips, 
acid jelly, celery or oyster sauce. Roasted. — Baked or browned 
potatoes, succotash, onions, beets, squash, acid jelly. 

Duck or Goose — Roasted. — Potatoes, onions, corn, macaroni, 
rice croquettes, apple sauce. 

Game. — Potatoes, salad, spinach, tomatoes, acid jelly. 

In addition to the above, relishes may be served, as celery, 
radishes, olives and pickles, also cold slaw or a salad. 

154 




Department 9. 

VEGETABLES should be &esh and crisp when selected, and if properly 
cooked, will be soft and juicy; the shape also will be retained. The 
time for cooking varies. Always wash well, and if wilted, put in cold 
water until fresh again, as it takes twice as long to cook if the crispness is gone. 
The informatioti on the opposite page will prove useful to young house- 
keepers. As a rule, one or two vegetables besides potatoes is considered 
enough for one course, but it is important that these be of choice quality 
and prepared so as to bring out the best flavor and make them appetizing. 



POTATOES. 

Potatoes should be procured in the fall, as soon as gathered, 
and stored in a dry cellar or storeroom, where they will be pro- 
tected from frost and light to prevent freezing and sprouting. 
Potatoes that have been in cold storage too long, as a rule turn 
dark and form black lumfKs inside and when cooked have a dull, 
watery appearance, and are therefore not fit to be eaten. 

The inside of a good potato, properly boiled, should be white, 
or of the natural color ; if baked white and mealy, not dark. 



155 



156 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

480. BOILED POTATOES. 

Peel the potatoes and let stand in cold water for at least half 
an hour before boiling. Put in kettle, cover with cold water and 
boil until done, from thirty to forty minutes. When cooked, 
drain, remove the cover and shake the potatoes in the kettle, to let 
the steam escape, which will make them light and mealy. 

481. BAKED POTATOES. 

Select large, smooth potatoes, wash and bake without remov- 
ing the skins. They bake more quickly if a thin slice is cut from 
each end. 

482. MASHED POTATOES. 

Peel, wash and boil until done; drain and wash thoroughly, 
season with salt and pepper, butter and milk or cream. Stir 
until light, put in a dish with small bits of butter over the top, 
and serve. 

Mashed potatoes pressed through a colander or potato press 
on the middle of the dish form a mound of light flakes like rice, 
and if surrounded with chops, have a dainty appearance. 

483. POTATOES BAKED WITH MEAT. 

Peel and wash medium-sized potatoes, put in with roast meat 
and roast for thirty or forty minutes, basting frequently. 

484. FRIED POTATOES. 

Slice cold potatoes extra thin and piit in frying-pan with hot 
melted butter, fry to a golden brown and keep from scorching, 
tossing or turning them over with a broad knife ; serve hot. 

485. FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Peel and cut potatoes into narrow strips lengthwise, wash and 
drain, dry upon a napkin, then plunge into hot fat and fry to nice 
brown. Take out with wire skimmer, drain in colander, sprinkle 
with salt and serve hot. 



DEPARTMENT 9 157 

486. CREAMED POTATOES. 

Cut into cubes (dice shape)or slice, cold boiled potatoes, not 
too well-done, heat in white sauce made with milk or cream, dish, 
sprinkle with parsley and serve. The parsley may be cooked in 
the sauce. 

487. AU GRATIN POTATOES, 
(o gra-tang) 

Chop up Irish potatoes and cook in cream. Then place in 
porcelain or silver dish, sprinkling melted butter and grated 
cheese over the top ; bake and serve in the same dish. 

488. STEWED POTATOES. 

Take cold boiled potatoes, cut into small pieces and place in 
granite baking-pan. To 1 quart of potatoes add a scant ^ cupful 
of butter, 1 large cupful of sweet milk into which 1 small table- 
spoonfiil of flour has been stirred, 1 onion chopped very fine, salt 
and pepper to taste. Mix all well together and pour into buttered 
baking-dish and bake half an hour. 

489. LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Slice and cut into small cubes (dice shape) cold boiled pota- 
toes. Melt butter or drippings in frying-pan, fry 1 small chopped 
onion light yellow color, put in the potatoes, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, cook gently about five minutes, constantly stirring 
with fork. Do not break the dice nor allow to brown. Just be- 
fore dishing up, stir in ample quantity of finely chopped parsley. 
Drain in heated colander and put in heated dish, as they must be 
served hot. 

490. DUCHESS POTATOES. 

Boil 3 pounds of mealy, peeled potatoes until done; drain 
perfectly, put in oven for a minute to dry. Rub quickly through 
wire sieve, mix in 3 yolks of eggs, 2 ozs. melted butter and 1 
tablespoonful of cream. Season with salt, pepper and grated nut- 
meg. When smooth, pour out on floured board, divide into 12 
equal parts; give each pari a square shape, trace some design 



158 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

on each with knife or other tool, put them on a buttered paper 
in shallow pan, brush the surface with egg and bake in hot oven 
to a nice color. Serve hot. 

491. HERRING POTATOES. 

Boil potatoes in salted water, peel and slice while still hot. 
Fry sliced onions to a nice yellow in butter, work in little flour, 
add vinegar, salt, pepper and bayleaf (leaf of laurel tree) to taste, 
and finally the hot sliced potatoes with enough boiling water 
to nearly cover the potatoes. Cut fine 1 or 3 herrings, removing 
all bones carefully, stir in the potatoes without breaking, then 
add a little cream. When hot, serve with boiled beef or mutton. 
Should be quite juicy. 

492. HAM POTATOES. 

Cut the less valuable parts of a boiled ham into small cubes 
(dice shape). In well buttered baking-dish put layer of freshly 
boiled potatoes, sliced while still hot, then layer of the ham with 
fried sliced onions and bits of butter, then again potatoes and so 
on until all is in, having potatoes and butter on top. Put in the 
oven until heated through, then pour in 3 eggs, well beaten with 
3 cups of milk (for four persons) and a little salt and nutmeg. 
Sprinkle with bread crumbs, heat again in the oven and serve. 
Chopped herring may be mixed with the ham. In this case no 
salt will be needed. 

493. PRINCESS POTATOES. 

Substitute well-watered and chopped herring for the ham in 
the preceding recipe, omit the beaten egg and milk, and use more 
butter. Excellent with boiled beef and mutton. 

494. CURLED POTATOES. 

Pare large, smooth potatoes and place in cold water for a 
short time, then continue paring like an apple, keeping the par- 
ings as long and thick as possible. Fry in wire basket in hot lard 
and when golden brown, place on paper to absorb the grease. 
Mostly used to garnish fish or steak. ' 



DEPARTMENT 9 159 

495. PARIS POTATOES. 

These are cut out of large potatoes with a special tool called a 
scoop. They are perfectly round little balls. In parboiling them 
they should be brought to the boil quickly, then fried or baked 
ten minutes and served as garnish. 

496. SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Peel raw even-sized potatoes, slice very thin, dry carefully 
on a cloth. Put in frying basket and plunge into boiling hot fat. 
When almost done, lift the basket out for three minutes to allow 
the fat to get hot again. Then plunge the basket in once more 
and leave it till the potatoes have a golden brown color. Take 
out, shake well, sprinkle with fine salt and serve at once. 

If not eaten at once will keep several days. If they get soft, 
put them in a hot oven for a few seconds. 

497. POTATO PUFFS. 

Pare and boil 4 large mealy potatoes. When done mash thor- 
oughly, (if necessary put through colander or sieve). Beat until 
light and creamy. Add 1 well beaten egg and about % cupful 
sweet cream. Pepper and salt to taste. Beat thoroughly, shape 
into balls with spoon dipped in melted butter. Place the balls on 
buttered pan and bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. 

498. POTATO CROQUETTES. 

To 3 cupfuls of mashed potato add 2 beaten eggs, a little 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste; mix thoroughly and 
form into croquettes, roll in flour and fry in hot lard or drippings, 
to a nice golden brown. Serve on hot dish, garnish with parsley. 
Two tablespoonfuls of cream mixed in forms a nice addition. 

499. POTATO CROQUETTES— NO. 2. 

Peel 5 medium-sized, raw potatoes, cut into quarters, rinse, 
put on the fire in cold salted water, boil till almost done. Drain, 
spread on flat dish, put in oven one minute to get perfectly dry, 



160 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

rub through a sieve. Make thin paste of y^ cup of water, 1 whol 
egg, 1 yolk, a little butter and flour, stir in the potato and Yz o- 
of grated Parmesan cheese ; season with pepper and a little nu1 
meg, spread on buttered dish to cool. Shape into croquettes o 
floured board, egg and crumb, put in frying basket, fry in hot fa 
to a nice golden color, drain on cloth or paper, sprinkle with sal 
Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 

Any good left-over, cooked meat, chopped fine, may be mixe 
with the potatoes. 

500. WARMED OVER POTATOES. 

Use cold potatoes, boiled in their skins or baked, the day be 
fore, but not overdone. Peel off the skins^ without cutting, cu 
in slices % inch thick. Put in chopping-bowl, season with pep 
per and salt, run the chopper over them one way so as to cut eac 
slice once "or tvvice, then run it across once at right angles, cul 
ting all into small dice. Put good butter (the size of an egg fo 
1 quart of potato) in saucepan on the fire ; when it begins to mel 
pour in 1 cup of fresh milk. As soon as boiled up, put in th 
potato, stir gently with fork. When moistened, cover up and pu 
on warm part of stove. After a few minutes stir carefully fror 
bottom, cover tightly. Serve hot. 

501. STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake large smooth potatoes until done, then with a shar 
knife cut off one end, hold the potato with napkin and scoop ou 
the inside; mash, season with butter or cream, salt and peppei 
or prepared paprika sauce and return to the shells. Fasten on th 
covers with toothpicks and bake for five minutes longer. An 
good cold meat such as chicken or veal can be mixed with th 
potato and a beaten egg forms a nice addition. 

502. SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Peel and slice small potatoes, wash and place layer in baking 
dish ; season with salt and pepper, and put small bits of butter o 
the top. Continue these layers until the dish is full. Then pou 



DEPARTMENT 9 161 

in enough milk to almost cover the potatoes, put in the oven and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 

For a change, sprinkle grated cheese or chopped ham on each 
layer. 

503. POTATO CAKES. 

Take cold mashed potatoes and form into small cakes with the 
hands, put 1 spoonful of drippings into hot frying-pan, put in the 
cakes and fry both sides to a nice brown ; serve at once. 

504. BAKED POTATO BALLS. 

Take warm mashed potatoes, form into round balls with the 
hands, roll in flour, place in rows in baking-pan and bake in hot 
oven for fifteen minutes. Serve with drawn butter sauce. 



505. POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Work -the yolks of 2 eggs into 2 cupfuls of hot, well mashed 
and seasoned, moist potatoes. Allow to cool a little and stir in 
lightly the 2 whites of egg beaten stiff. Put in pudding dish and 
brown in hot oven. 

506. POTATOES A LA O'BRIEN. 

Boil 1 quart peeled Irish potatoes one-half hour, mash smooth, 
add 1 small, raw chopped onion, 1 small chopped pepper, 
1/8 pound butter, ^^ pint cream and beat with fork five minutes, 
over fire, to keep hot. Serve at once. 



507. SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and trim the sweet potatoes. Usually baked in the 
skins, and require from an hour to an hour and a quarter accord- 
ing to thickness. They may be boiled from forty to fifty minutes, 
and when soft should be placed in oven for a few minutes to dry. 
Left-over sweet potatoes can be sliced and fried brown in butter. 

Another good way is to pare the potatoes whole and boil till 
tender, but not cooked too much. Then take out, cut in halves 



162 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

lengthwise, put in dripping-pan with sufficient butter, pepper, 
salt and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and bake to a brown. 

508. RAW TOMATOES. 

Tomatoes, like all other vegetables, should b,e fresh and ripe, 
but of course not decayed or too ripe. 

Put the tomatoes in wire basket and plunge into boiling hot 
water for three or four minutes, drain and peel. The skins can 
also be loosened by putting the tomatoes in hot oven for four or 
five minutes. Slice into a dish, season with pepper, sugar and 
vinegar or pour mayonnaise over them. 

509. STEWED TOMATOES. 

Peel the tomatoes, slice and put on fire in a granite-ware sauce- 
pan. Stew about twenty minutes, add spoonful of butter, and 
season with salt and pepper. Stew ten minutes longer and serve 
hot. Bread crumbs may be used for thickening, also a little 
sugar. For a change, chop up an onion and stew with the 
tomatoes. 

510. DEVILED TOMATOES. 

Take large firm tomatoes and cut in slices % inch in thickness, 
and lay in shallow dish ; rub the yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg with 1 
tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of 
sugar, a very little salt, mustard and cayenne ; stir smooth, set 
upon the stove, and let come to boil ; then set in vessel containing 
hot water, and stir in a well-beaten egg. Broil the tomatoes; 
lay them on a hot dish and pour the hot dressing over them. 

511. FRIED TOMATOES. 

Slice large firm tomatoes about i/^ inch thick without remov- 
ing the skin, dip each slice in well beaten egg, then in cracker 
dust, and fry in hot lard or drippings. Season with salt and pep- 
per after they are in the frying pan and serve hot. If desired 
pour over a white sauce made with the fat in the pan and sprinkle 
with chopped parsley. 



DEPARTMENT 9 163 

512. BROILED TOMATOES. 

Cut unpeeled, raw tomatoes in two horizontally, put the halves 
on a broiler, skin down, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and broil 
on the skin side from fifteen to twenty minutes. Arrange on hot 
dish, put on each a little melted butter, maitre d'hotel, Mayon- 
naise or Bearnaise sauce and serve hot. 

513. STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Dainty and good. Select large, firm, even-sized ripe tomatoes, 
cut one large thin slice off each, wherever this can be done with the 
best results, preferably around the stem-part. Scoop out most 
of the soft inside, free the pulp from the seeds, add chopped celery 
and as much grated fresh pineapple, and mix with as much stiff 
mayonnaise as there is pulp. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture, 
put its cover on each, place in refrigerator for two hours or 
longer. 

To serve, put each tomato, uncut side up, in center of crisp 
lettuce leaf, arrange on glass or silver dish, garnish tastefully with 
water cresses and radishes. Distinctly American dish. 

Of course, the stuffing may be varied in many ways. A good 
one is made of pounded tongue, shrimps, a little cream and may- 
onnaise. Another is made of 1 hard boiled yolk of egg, 2 boned 
anchovies (small pickled fish) capers, a little chopped parsley and 
mayonnaise. 

514. BAKED STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Stuff the tomatoes with rice stewed in beef stock and mixed 
with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Arrange in baking-pan, 
cover with buttered paper, bake half an hour. Remove the but- 
tered paper and bake ten minutes longer, if desired. 



515. BAKED STUFFED TOMATOES— NO. 2. 

Take good, firm tomatoes, some chopped onion, some bread 
crumbs, a little butter, red pepper and salt. Scoop out a small 
hole at the top ; fry the bread crumbs, onion, etc., and fill the holes 



164 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK. 

with the mixture ; then bake the tomatoes in the oven and take 
care not to break the skins in handling. Should be served hot. 

516. TOMATO CROQUETTES. 

Take good firm tomatoes, scald, peel and cut open crossways, 
scrape out all the seeds and chop fine. To each pint of chopped 
tomato add 1 of bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and 
onion juice and % teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; mix together 
and form into croquettes. Then dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker 
dust, and fry in hot lard. If too soft to handle, add more bread. 

ONIONS. 

The onion belongs to the lily family (LIUaceaJ, genus Allium cepa; 
for seasoning and flavoring it is not exceeded in importance except by salt. 
Onions, when green, are much used in salads, and form an indispensable ingre- 
dient of such savories as stews, soups and sauces. Sliced raw onions are 
considered to be highly conducive to good health, and the Spanish and 
Bermuda varieties are mild enough for most people to eat raw, especially in 
winter, when young green onions cannot be had. Young onions eaten freely 
when in season tend to eliminate scorbutic poison from the system. Onions with 
strong odor can be held under water and peeled without affecting the eyes. 

517. ONIONS— BOILED, STEWED, FRIED. 

Boiled Onions. — Peel, cut oflf all the brown parts, put in cold 
water, bring to a boil and boil two minutes, then pour off the 
water, and pour on cold water ; add a little salt, and boil slowly 
from thirty to forty minutes. Drain well, pour melted butter over, 
pepper and salt ; serve hot. Delicious if properly prepared. 

Stewed Onions. — Boil the onions slowly. Drain well; add a 
little milk, butter and flour all stirred to a cream; season with 
pepper and salt ; let come to a boil and serve at once. Stew Span- 
ish or Bermuda onions in butter or stock. Boil until tender. 

Fried Onions. — Slice the onions extra thin, season with salt and 
pepper and fry in pork drippings or in half butter and half lard to 
a nice brown or the color desired, stirring frequently. 

Young onions should be served with the tops on and, to make 
crisp, with a little cracked ice, especially in hot weather. 

518. BAKED SPANISH ONIONS. 

Put the onions, with the skins on, into a saucepan of boiling 



DEPARTMENT 9 165 

water, slightly salted, and boil rapidly one hour. Then take out, 
wipe thoroughly, wrap each one in buttered paper, and 
bake in moderate oven two hours, or longer if unusually large. 
May be served in the skins and eaten with cold butter, pepper 
and salt ; or may be peeled, and a good brown gravy poured over. 

519. STUFFED ONIONS, RUSSIAN STYLE. 

Peel medium sized onions, parboil in salted water, drain and 
cool. Carefully scoop out center part of each onion, chop fine 
with half the quantity of mushrooms, mix with bread-crumbs, 
pepper, salt and grated nutmeg, moisten with a little Espagnole 
sauce and stuff into the hollows of the onions. Place in pan, 
sprinkle with fresh bread-crumbs, put a bit of butter on top of 
each and bake half an hour in moderate oven. 

Another good fillmg is made of cooked chicken or veal, 
chopped, mixed with crumbs and moistened with melted butter. 

520. SPINACH. 

Spinach (like dandelion, cowslip, chicory and similar greens) 
must be cleaned with especial care. Pick carefully, removing 
every brown or hard particle. Wash in 3 or 4 waters, let stand 
fifteen minutes in salted cold water. Put in large pot, half full of 
boiling water. Boil fifteen to twenty minutes, removing scum. 
As soon as tender, take out, drain, and squeeze out all water. If 
desired, chop fine (some prefer it unchopped), put in saucepan 
with piece of butter and a little salt and pepper. Keep over hot 
fire five mmutes, stirring all the time. Dish up, garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs, and serve at once. 

For those who dislike spinach, it may be made more palatable 
by stirring in chopped chives or fried onions. 

The young leaves of chicory and dandelion are cooked and 
served like spinach, also the cultivated sour dock. 

521. CREAM SPINACH BALLS. 

Blend 1 tablespoonful lemon juice and 2 of butter with 2 of 
flour; add 1 cupful minced cooked spinach seasoned with pepper 



166 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

and salt. When hot, form into balls, serve on small pieces of 
toast, garnish each with minced white of eggs and pour cream 
sauce around on platter. 

522. CABBAGE. 

Windows should be kept open while cooking cabbage, so that 
the strong odor may not fill the entire house to the annoyance 
of guests or any one who may come in from the open air. To 
prevent the odor, some cooks throw a few pieces of charcoal into 
the water. The odor is decreased to a minimum by closely ad- 
hering to the following recipe : 

Cut 1 cabbage into 6 or 8 pieces, remove the outside leaves if 
wilted or dirty, and cut away the stem. Wash the leaves, chang- 
ing the water twice, and drain, hollow side down, in a strainer. 
When the water in a large saucepan is boiling violently, put in 1 
large tablespoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of baking soda, 
and put in the cabbage, leaf by leaf, so as not to stop the boiling 
of the water. Let boil until tender (no longer! about twenty- 
five minutes) uncovered, pushing the leaves under water every 
few minutes. Drain in strainer, pressing out all water, dish, and 
season with salt and pepper and melted butter. 

If to be served in white sauce cut the leaves into pieces. 

523. CABBAGE AU GRATIN. 

In a pudding dish place alternate layers of chopped boiled 
cabbage and grated cheese, putting a little white sauce over each 
layer of cabbage. Put on top layer of crumbs moistened with 
butter and bake until the sauce bubbles through on top. 

524. CABBAGE COOKED IN MILK. 

Chop y^ head of cabbage fine, put into stew pan, cover with 
water, and boil until tender ; then draw off the water, add milk to 
nearly cover the cabbage, add lump of butter size of an egg, salt 
and pepper to taste; simmer in the milk ten or fifteen minutes, 
and serve. 



DEPARTMENT 9 167 

525. STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Select 1 firm head of cabbage, carefully loosen the tops of the 
outside leaves, lift aside and hollow the head out below with a 
sharp knife. Put in boiling salted water, boil twenty-five to 
thirty minutes Prepare forcemeat (chopped spiced meat) of y^ 
pound, chopped lean pork and y^ pound of chopped beef, a slice 
of white bread soaked in cold water or milk and squeezed out, 
1 &%%, pepper, salt, and V^ chopped onion, and part of the cabbage 
cut out. Put inside the head, the remaining pieces of cabbage 
on top, fold the large leaves back into place, tie with a string 
crosswise. Brown 1 tablespoonful of butter in stew-pan, large 
enough to hold the cabbage, put in, cover tightly and stew halt an 
hour, or more, adding a little hot water and basting the head, 
from time to time. Take the head out, remove the string, put in 
hot dish. Stir 1 large tablespoonful of sour cream and % tea- 
spoonful of flour into the sauce^ and serve in a sauce-boat. 



526. SAUERKRAUT. 

If too sour, wash in plenty of water and drain in colander. 
Put a good quantity of butter pr salt pork in frying-pan, add 1 
sliced onion, if desired; also the sauerkraut, with a little water, 
cover well and stew slowly for an hour. Uncover, stir well, dish, 
season with a little pepper and vinegar, and, if liked, garnish with 
small, sour baked apples. 



627. SAUERKRAUT QUICKLY MADE. 

Cut the cabbage in shreds, mix well with salt and caraway 
seed, sprinkle with good vinegar, put in crock evenly, a nicely fit- 
ting plate on the cabbage and a heavy weight on the plate to press 
the cabbage down. Twenty-four hours later put the cabbage on 
the fire, in saucepan with water, vinegar and the meat (fresh or 
salted pork, or streaky bacon, etc.). Boil two and one half hours. 
A tart apple cut in pieces gfives a nice flavor. 



1G8 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

528. RED CABBAGE. 

Trim and wash 1 red cabbage head, cut into fine shreds ; core, 
peel and slice 2 tart apples of good flavor ; cut 4 slices of streaky 
bacon into cubes (dice shape). Melt 2 ozs. of butter in stewpan, 
fry the bacon in it, add the cabbage and apples, and 2 small onions 
stuck with 2 cloves each. Stir well, sprinkle with 1 dessert- 
spoonful of flour and add .1 pint of stock, and if desited, a glass 
of good claret. Bring to the boil, and let simmer nearly two hours. 
Season with salt and pepper after one hour. When done, take out 
the onions. Some people like an additional seasoning of vinegar 
and sugar. 

An excellent dish with any kind of hot meat. Improves by 
being warmed up next day. 

529. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Wash and pick over 1 quart of sprouts, put in boiling salted 
water with a pinch of soda. When soft, drain, season with pepper 
and a grate of nutmeg, add 1 ounce of butter and toss gently over 
a bright fire until the butter has disappeared (up to ten minutes). 
Dish neatly in a round heap on hot dish, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. Or, a maitre d'hotel sauce (see Sauces, Dept. 7) may be 
poured over them. 

530. ARTICHOKES. 

Cut the artichokes close to the stems, cut or break away the 
hard leaves and trim the rough parts off the remaining leaves. 
Boil one hour in salted water, remove the fibrous inside (choke), 
cut away the bottom down to the white meat, and serve with a 
Bechamel or Hollandaise sauce or creamed butter. 

531. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE. 

A tall, American plant of the aster family. The name is cor- 
rupted from the Italian girasole, sunflower. Its tubers may be 
cooked like kohlrabi, or as follows: 

Wash, peel and cut dice shape (cube). Cover with milk in a 
double boiler, add 1 sliced onion and boil twenty minutes. Make 



DEPARTMENT 9 169 

a white roux by working together over the fire 1 lablespoonful 
each of flour and butter, add it, season with 1 teaspoonful of salt 
and 1 saltspoonful of pepper ; cook one-half hour longer and serve 
hot. 

532. KOHLRABI. 

A variety of cabbage. When young, kohlrabi is palatable and 
nutritious, when old it is too fibrous. Peel, Cut in two and slice 
thin, parboil in salted water, draiii, and stew in light stock till ten- 
der (fifteen to twenty-five minutes). Drain, stir white sauce into 
the liquor, return the kohlrabi into the sauce, heat till near the 
boiling point and serve. 

533. ASPARAGUS. 

Owing to its effect on the system, asparagus is considered 
very wholesome. In winter, when fresh asparagus cannot be had, 
the canned white asparagus can be substituted, the imported 
vinegared article being the best. Very nice as a flavor. 

Select stalks of even thickness, remove the buds with sharp- 
pointed knife, scrape clean. The lower part may be thinly; pealed, 
by sliding a sharp knife down along the stalk, beginning about 
where the skin becomes tough ; this is always done with white 
asparagus. Put each stalk in cold water when clean. Cut off 
the bottoms, put in ample boiling salted water. Boil till soft, 
twenty to forty minutes. A few drops of vinegar or lemon-juice 
poured in impart a nice flavor. When cooked, take out at once. 

Asparagus may be served in many ways : 1. On toast. The 
toast is dipped for a moment in the asparagus water. 3. With a 
Holland sauce, poured over the tips or served separately in a 
sauce-boat. 3. With a mild East Indian sauce (see Sauces), 
substituting the asparagus water for the fish stock. 4. With 
melted butter, on toast or with fried bread crumbs if desired. 
5. With grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter poured over 
the tips and put in the oven for a few seconds. 

534. SALSIFY (OYSTER PLANT). 

(Belongs to the aster family. Found on sea coast of Northern 
Europe, America and Asia.) 

Wash, scrape and trim, boil till tender in salted water with 



170 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

lemon juice. Drain, dish up and pour some melted butter over it. 
Then serve immediately — piping hot. 

Or, cook the salsify, after it is boiled tender, for ten minutes 
in a sauce made of bechamel (see Sauces, Dept. 7), a little of the 
water in which the salsify was boiled and chopped parsley. Serve 
in the sauce, flavored with a little lemon-juice. 

If to be fried, boil first, then season with oil, vinegar and 
chopped parsley. Dip each root in a light frying batter, drop 
into boiling fat, fry a golden color. Drain on cloth or paper, 
garnish with fried parsley. 

535. STEWED CELERY. 

Chop fine 1 onion, and brown in stewpan with 1 tablespoonful 
of melted butter, add 1 pint of good chicken broth or veal stock, 
cut the celery into strips the size of a lead pencil and 3 inches 
long, put it in the stock and stew until tender. Serve as a 
vegetable. 

536. GREEN PEAS. 

To get the real pea it is always best to buy when in the pod. 
But if already shelled, then be careful to see that they have not 
been standing too long. 

Wash the shelled or canned peas in cold water. Drain well 
and put on the fire in just enough water to cover. Simmer twenty* 
minutes or more. The water will partly evaporate, but must 
not wholly disappear. Add a little boiling water if necessary. 
Season, just before serving, with pepper, salt, butter and a very 
little sugar. Serve hot. 

537. GREEN PEAS A LA FRANCAISE. 

Take freshly gathered young peas, mix with a little good 
butter, put in stew-pan with cold water, a little parsley, 1 small 
oflion, a little salt and sugar. Simmer till tender. At the last 
moment thicken the gravy with butter and flour rubbed together. 
Garnish, if desired, with bread dice fried in butter and glazed. 



DEPARTMENT 9 171 

538. DRIED YELLOW PEAS, 

Pick over carefully, rejecting all that are discolored or worm- 
eaten, wash thoroughly in cold soft water, and soak over night in 
cold water. Boil half an hour in water into which ^ teaspoonful 
of bicarbonate of soda has been put, drain in a colander, retifrn 
to the pot with a little water or stock and a liberal amount of pork 
drippings or butter, and a little salt and cook until tender. Rub 
through a sieve, boil up once more, pour into deep dish, cover with 
sliced onion fried in good butter, and serve. Excellent' with pork, 
sauerkraut and boiled potatoes. 

539. CANNED PEAS. 

Open the can, pour the peas in a strainer, and let cold water 
from the faucet run over them freely, to remove any possible taint 
from the tin. Shake the strainer to drain the peas well. Pour 
the peas into a small saucepan, ^ full of boiling water, contain- 
ing a sprig of mint. Boil quickly for five minutes, drain. Melt 1 
oz. of butter in stewpan, pour in the drained peas, shake over 
the fire for a few seconds, sprinkle on them % teaspoonful of 
flour, add 2 tablespoonfuls of stock or water, season with pepper 
and salt and a little sugar, let simmer five minutes. 

540. STRING BEANS. 

String the beans and cut into three or four pieces ; boil in lit- 
tle water until tender, about one hour ; pour over milk or sweet 
cream ; add 1 small lump of butter, pepper and salt to taste, a little 
summer savory, and boil five minutes longer ; then serve. 

541. LIMA BEANS. 

Soak 1 pint of lima or butter beans for twelve hours or longer. 
Put in boiling salted water on fire, simmer three hours. Melt 
3 ozs. of butter in saucepan, cool a little, stir in 5 yolks of eggs, 
1 gill of rich stock, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, a dessertspoonful 
of summer savory, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Stir briskly 
until it begins to thicken. Then pour in the beans drained. Re- 
heat and season to taste. 



172 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

542. BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

There never was a greater misnomer than the name, Boston 
Baked Beans as applied to the many imitations of the real article. 
There is only one proper way of cooking this favorite New Eng- 
land dish : Put the beans to soak Friday night (navy beans pre- 
ferred), take out Saturday morning, rinse thoroughly in fresh 
water, parboil, or until the outside skin cracks (care must be 
taken however to not overcook or have the beans become mushy), 
drain, put in an earthen bean-pot glazed on the inside, season to 
taste, add 1 tablespoonful of West India, or New Orleans molas- 
ses (which gives color and a little sweetish taste), place the pork 
on top, in strips (the rind slightly notched in several pieces) or 
in one piece, as desired, put on the cover and bake slowly in an 
oven with uniform heat. Add water or stock from time to time 
to replace the moisture lost in cooking. If intended for the Sat- 
urday evening meal, the beans should be put in the oven by eight 
or nine o'clock Saturday morning. If any are left, keep in bean 
pot, replace in slow oven. Serve for Sunday morning breakfast. 

As a rule the regular bean-pots are not kept in the stores in 
the West, but can be had anywhere in the East, and are necessary 
for the proper cooking of Boston baked beans. 

To one quart of dry beans use % lbs. of best salt pork, streak of 
lean running through the meat. Avoid too much grease. 



543. STEWED CARROTS. 

Carrots are a wholesome vegetable and as a rule are not fully 
appreciated. Young carrots in the spring are delicious if cooked 
properly. 

Scrape 4 or 5 large carrots clean, parboil twenty minutes, drain, 
slice into a stew pan, add 1 cup of light stock or the water in 
which they were parboiled, salt and pepper to taste, let simmer, 
and when tender, stir in a little thickening of flour and butter. 
Boil up and serve, sprinkled with parsley. Cut in small cubes 
(dice shape) when raw and stewed as above; carrots are fine 
mixed with an equal quantity of green peas. 

If eaten plentifully will reduce weight . 



DEPARTMENT 9 173 

544. BOILED CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim and clean 1 head of nice white cauliflower and boil in 
salted water for one-half hour, take out and drain, break apart 
carefully, arrange in the dish and serve with drawn butter sauce 
or melted butter. 

545. BAKED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil 1 head of cauliflower whole in salt and water; when 
tender, drain carefully and put in a dish that will fit into one 
which is suitable to put on the table ; pour over it drawn butter 
sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese, baste with melted butter, bake 
to a nice brown, and serve. 

546. CAULIFLOWER FRITTERS. 

Divide 1 cooked, cold head of cauliflower into sprigs, and dip 
each sprig in cold bechamel sauce (see Dept. 7). When set, dip 
each sprig in light frying batter and drop in boiling fat. Fry a 
golden color, take out, drain, sprinkle with a mixture of fine salt 
and paprika (Hungarian pepper), dish up, sprinkle with parsley 
and serve at once. 

547. STEWED CUCUMBERS. 

Peel and quarter the cucumbers lengthwise. Remove the 
seeds. Boil in salted water until tender, which takes only a few 
minutes. Drain and heat in white sauce. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and serve. If bitter, add a little sugar. 

548. BEETS. 

Wash well, but be careful not to break, cut or prick the skin, 
or the juice will run out. Put in boiling water, cook till tender 
(from one to two hours according to thickness). Try by press- 
ing with the finger. When done, plunge into cold water and 
pull off the skin. If to be eaten hot, slice rather thick, season with 
butter, salt and pepper and a little strong vinegar. If to be 
pickled, do not peel till perfectly cold, and cut in thin slices. 



174 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

If to be stewed, boil and slice as above, put hot in saucepan 
with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little chopped onion and 
parsley, and a seasoning of salt, pepper and vinegar. Cover and 
stew fifteen minutes. 

Small beets are excellent baked, but must be turned fre- 
quently, and carefully, so as not to break the skin. When tender, 
pull off the skin, slice, season with butter, pepper and salt, and 
serve hot. 

549. BEET GREENS. 

Wash the young beets with the green leaves carefully and 
thoroughly, removing all wilted parts, put gradually into slightly 
salted boiling water and boil for one hour, or until the roots are 
tender. Drain well, put in a vegetable dish, put little pieces of 
butter here and there, sprinkle with 1 tablespoonful or more 
of vinegar and serve either hot or cold. Very nutritious. 

550. SQUASH. 

Very palatable if cooked and seasoned properly. 

Summer squash should be so young that the finger nails pass 
through the rind easily. Wash and cut up, without removing 
either skin or seeds. Boil in slightly salted water twenty or 
thirty minutes until tender. Drain and set back on the stove to 
let the steam escape, mash, season with butter, salt and a little 
white pepper and serve hot. 

If to be baked, prepare as above, mix with crumbs and brown 
in the oven. 

The most delicate way to cook summer squash is to cut it in 
flat squares, fry in hot butter and season with pepper and salt. 
The shell of a winter squash is usually extra hard. Break into 
small pieces, remove the seeds and wash thoroughly. Put the 
pieces in the kettle shell side up, cover with salted water and boil 
till tender, but not long enough to go to pieces. Scrape the 
«Bquash from the shell and season with butter, salt and pepper. 

551. GREEN CORN ON THE COB. 

Husk and pick off the silk carefully. Put in boiling water. 



DEPARTMENT 9 175 

If not entirely fresh, put 1 desertspoonful of sugar in, but no salt. 
Boil twenty minutes. 

If left over from dinner, cut the kernels from the cob, mix 
with an equal quantity of milk, half as much flour, 1 &gg or 2, a. 
little butter and pinch of salt. Of this thick batter form small 
cakes and fry in hot butter. Serve hot with butter and sugar. 

552. STEWED GREEN CORN. 

Cut the kernels off the cobs, scraping clean. Put the cobs in 
boiling water, boil twenty minutes. Take out, put the kernels m 
the same water, boil twenty minutes, then add 1 cupful of milk or 
cream, 1 spoonful of butter, and a little salt and pepper. Boil a 
few minutes longer and serve hot. 

Half corn and half tomatoes may be used. For this dish the 
corn should be very tender and juicy. 

553. CORN OYSTERS. 

Grate 6 ears of sweet corn, add 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, a 
pinch of salt and 1 well beaten egg. Mix well together and fry 
in hot butter. Make the patties about the size and shape of 
oysters. If the shape is not kept, add a little more flour. 

554. SUCCOTASH. 

Take 2 cupfuls of green corn cut off the cob,- and 1 cupful of 
green shelled beans; put in stew pan, cover with water; add 1 
teaspoonful of sal? and boil until tender. When done, add ^2 
cupful of cream or milk, a small lump of butter, pepper and salt 
if necessary ; cook for a few minutes and serve. 

555. PARSNIPS. 

Wash and scrape before using. Parsnips are best stewed. 
Cut in slices half an inch thick, nearly cover with boiling water, 
cover tightly, and let simmer until tender ; bei careful not to scorch 
them. Stir occasionally. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

If to be boiled, split in halves, put in boiling salted water, let 



176 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

simmer until tender, two to three hours. Take out, dry, and 
serve with melted butter or a white sauce poured over them. 

Boiled parsnips may be dipped in beaten egg and fried in hot 
butter or lard. 

A parsnip will add a nice flavor to stews. 

556. TURNIPS. 

Pare and cut the turnips to pieces, boil in water with a. little 
salt until soft (from forty minutes to an hour), drain well, rub 
through a sieve, stir in butter, pepper and salt, and if desired 
a grate of nutmeg. Dish up and dust a little pepper on top. 

Or, instead of rubbing through a sieve, half mash the turnips, 
season as above and sprinkle liberally with chopped parsley. Be 
careful not to salt turnips too much. 

557. BROWNED TURNIPS. 

A delicious dish, bringing out the virtues of the turnip to the 
greatest advantage. 

Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter over a moderate fire, stir until 
a light brown, then stir in 1 tablespoonful of sugar. When 
smooth, add 1 teaspoonful of flour and the turnips which have 
been peeled and washed in hot water. Keep stirring until brown. 
Then add 1 cup of boiling stock, cover tightly and stew until ten- 
der. Excellent with fried sausages, mutton chops, breast of veal, 
and fried potatoes. 

558. RUTABAGAS. 

Rutabagas (yellow or Russian turnips; Kohlrabi under the 
ground), are cooked as under the first recipe given above for Tur- 
nips. May be cut in one-inch slices, boiled tender, drained, and 
fried to a rich brown in hot butter or lard. 

559. EGG PLANT. 

Peel the plant and cut in slices about }i inch thick, sprinkle 
the slices with a little salt, pile up on an inverted (turned upside 
down) dish, and place a weight on top to press out the juice. Let 



DEPARTMENT 9 177 

stand an hour or more. Dip in beaten egg and crumbs or flour, 
and fry on both sides in lard or drippings. Season while frying. 
Serve hot. 

Egg plant may be baked. Do not peel, cut in halves, season 
with salt and pepper and bake about thirty minutes, basting fre- 
quently with butter. Or, scrape out the insides of the halves, 
mince together with a small onion, season with salt, pepper, 
chopped parsley and butter, mix with the same quantity of 
chopped cold chicken or other meat, pack into the shells, cover 
with crumbs, dot with butter and bake one hour in a hot oven. 
Serve hot with drawn butter. The egg plant may be parboiled, 
leaving it twenty minutes in rapidly boiling water before cutting 
it in halves. The stuffing can be varied, as by using tomato and 
stock instead of meat, and by adding cracker crumbs, etc. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Many people are prejudiced against fresh mushrooms because 
there are so many poisonous varieties. But mushrooms contain 
a large percentage of nitrogen, are therefore nourishing, and most 
of the edible ones have a delicious flavor. Care must be taken, 
however, that they are entirely sound and fresh, because many 
cases of illness have resulted from eating mushrooms that were 
decayed or worm-eaten. 

The common mushroom of the market is Agaricus campestris, 
found in the fall on rich, moist pastures in all parts of the world, 
and frequently cultivated. If boiled, make nice addition to soups, 
gravies, catsup and many fancy dishes. Best fried; remove the 
stalks, scald a few seconds, dry with a cloth, flour, season with 
pepper and salt, and fry five or six minutes in smoking hot fat. 
With steak or mutton chops are excellent stewed with butter, 
lemon juice, powdered herbs, and salt and pepper. 

Another important edible mushroom is the morel {Morchella 
esculenta), found in April and May. Is best stewed. Remove 
the foot of the stalk, wash and dry with a cloth. Cut in two or 
more pieces according to size. Put in boiling water, a few at a 
time, boil five minutes and drain. Then put on the fire with a lit- 
tle stock, butter, salt, pepper, and if desired, onion, cook five min- 



178 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

utes and serve on buttered toast, garnished with slices of lemon.' 
Morels are often filled with a light bread forcemeat (chopped 
spiced meat), wrapped in thin slices of salt pork and baked half an 
hour, or stewed in stock one hour. 

Other edible varieties of mushrooms : 

The Horse Mushroom (Agaricus arvensis), firm, delicious and 
yielding abundant gravy. Its conical top has a red lining. 

The Hedgehog Mushroom (Hydnum repandum), with a yel- 
low, concave top. 

The Chanterelle (Cantharellus cibarius), yellow, funnel- 
shaped, and of a fruity smell. 

The Edible Pore Mushroom (Boletus edulis), having a red 
top and, instead of the lamallae, vertical tubes that separate easily 
from the cap and from each other. Boleti with a red tinge on the 
under surface should not be eaten. 

Those who like the flavor of mushrooms may dry them by put- 
ting on the stove in a saucepan. When the steaming stops, place 
on a shelf in a warm place until dry as bone, pulverize in a mor- 
tar, and keep in sealed jars in a dry place. 

560. DEVILED MUSHROOMS. 

Chop 1 pint of mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, and 
a little lemon juice. Mix the yolk of 1 hard boiled egg with a 
raw one, stir in a cup of bread crumbs and i^ a tablespoon of 
butter. Fill baking shells with the mixture, cover with bread 
crumbs and bits of butter and bake until browned. 

561. BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Select large mushrooms, peel and cut off lower part of stalks, 
wash, drain on cloth, and season with salt and pepper. Broil on 
double gridiron over brisk fire and baste with oil. Dish on thin 
toast, pour melted butter over and serve. 



^"[I^ ENTREES 4M 



<i!y>.-x»^ <■»>'. 



SIDE. DISHES 



Department 10. 

THE word "entree" is French and means "entrance, introduction." An 
entree, therefore, is a subordinate dish served before or along with a 
principal dish, or between the heavier courses of an elaborate dinner. 
Small lamb chops, spring chicken, calf's brains, sweetbreads, etc., seem to be 
the most popular for the purpose. As these dishes are calculated as orna- 
ments rather than to satisfy hunger, they should be served very artistically. 

562. CROQUETTES (FRENCH). 

The meat for croquettes should be chopped extra fine if 
fibrous, while sweetbreads, oysters and other soft materials should 
be cut into small cubes (dice) of uniform size. When well mixed 
with the other ingredients, use 1 large tablespoonful for each cro- 
quette. Roll lightly into a ball between the hands, then place on 
a board thickly and evenly spread with fine crumbs, roll the ball 
into cylinder shape, flatten the ends by striking with knife blade, 
lay in egg (or white of egg) beaten with a little water, wet all 
over with the egg, lift out carefully and roll again in the crumbs, 
until every part is well covered. The croquettes should all be the 
same size and shape, and should stand, without touching each 
other, about one hour before frying. 

Rice croquettes are made of equal parts of rice and meat, 
moistened with tomato. 

563. CHICKEN CROQUETTES, 

Chop the cold meat very fine, mix with an equal quantity of 
smooth mashed potato, season with^ black and red pepper, salt, 



179 



180 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

butter and a little prepared English mustard (or a little curry 
powder), shape into cakes or cones, roll in egg and then in bread- 
crumbs and fry a light brown in very hot deep fat. 

The meat of turkey, veal, etc., can be used in the same way. 

564. CHICKEN CROQUETTES— NO, 2. 

Make cream sauce of 1 small cup of milk, 1 tablespoonfui each 
of butter and flour over the fire. When cold, mix with 1 cup each 
of cold chicken chopped fine and bread crumbs, % can of mush- 
rooms, cut up, y2 small onion grated, % teaspoonful each of 
chopped parsley and salt, and half the quantity of white pepper. 
Mold into croquettes, put in well buttered pan and bake in a, hot 
oven. When cooked, arrange on a platter, pierce a hole in each, 
insert a sprig of parsley, and serve with a rich white sauce, or with- 
out, as preferred. Tomato catsup improves the croquettes. 

Lobster croquettes are made in a similar manner and deco- 
rated with lobster legs or claws. 

565. MEAT AND RICE CROQUETTES. 

Take 1 cup meat of any kind, chopped fine, 1 cup boiled rice, 
1 teaspoonful salt, 2 of butter, ^ cup milk and a little pepper. 
Boil the milk, add meat, rice and seasoning. When boiling add 
1 well beaten egg and stir one minute. Shape after cooling and 
roll in beaten egg and crumbs, then fry. 

566. SALPICON (FRENCH). 

A salpicon is a mixture of fruits all cut to the same size, sweet- 
ened with sugar and moistened with a little sherry. Maraschino 
(cherry cordial), or other cordial. Such fruits are grapes cut in 
two and seeded, bananas, oranges, pineapple, grape fruit, etc. 

"Salpicon" is also used as a name for a filling made of meats, 
bread crumbs and a sauce. 

567. QUENELLES (FRENCH). 
These are small forcemeat balls (meat cheeped up with 



DEPARTMENT 10 181 

spices), rolled in flour, boiled and added to fricassees and fillings, 
or uded as garnishings for fancy dishes. 

568. RISSOLES (FRENCH). 

Roll good pie crust dough (puff paste preferred) one-eighth of 
an inch thick and cut into squares, triangles or circles of uniform 
size. In the center of one-half of the pieces place 1 teaspoonful 
each of any forcemeat or salpicon (chopped meat filling), moisten 
the dough along the edges, fit another piece of dough of the same 
size and shape over it and press the edges lightly together. Turn 
the rissoles in egg, roll in crumbs and fry in hot fat deep enough 
to cover. 

569. MACEDOINE (FRENCH). 

A macedoine is a mixture : 1. A salad of string beans, green 
peas, carrots, turnips, beets, asparagus points, cauliflower and cel- 
ery root, all of similar size, boiled separately, well mixed, put in 
a nest of crisp lettuce leaves and covered with a French dressing. 

2. The same vegetables treated in the same way, cut in fancy 
shapes if desired, mixed, seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, 
or with a white sauce. The vegetables may also be kept separate 
and used as garnishes around the meat. 

3. A molded jelly containing a mixture of all sorts of fruit, 
fresh, canned or candied, all of nearly the same size, and flavored 
with Maraschino or Kirsch. 

570. CHARTREUSE OF VEGETABLES. 

Line a plain mold with thin slices of bacon and the bottom 
also with carrots, turnips and potatoes, parboiled and cut in cubes 
(dice shape). Fill the center gradually with seasoned meat, edg- 
ing each layer with vegetable dice. When nearly full, cover with 
the dice, top with slices of bacon and put on the cover. Steam 
one and a half hours, turn on a platter and serve with a cream 
sauce. 

571. TAMALES (SPANISH). 

Put 1 large chicken to boil in hot water, with 1 dessertspoon- 
ful of salt, 5 chopped onions, 1 breadcrust into which a clove of 



182 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

garlic has been rubbed, 5 cloves, 5 allspice, 2 Chile red peppers 
and 1 stick of cinnamon. When the chicken is tender, take it out, 
pick all the meat off the bones and cut it into small pieces. Strain 
the broth and return to the fire with the meat and enough corn- 
meal to make a mush. After boiling ten minutes add the green 
corn scraped from 10 ears and 1% pounds of seeded raisins, also, 
if desired, 1 cupful of cooked green peas and string beans cut up. 
Add red pepper to taste and if the mush is not thick enough, add 
a little flour. Fill corn husks with the mush, tying them up care- 
fully. Boil half an hour and serve. 

572. SALMON TIMBALES. 

Mince with a silver knife 3 cups of cold,. boiled, fresh salmon, 
and work into a paste with the minced "whites of 5 hard-boiled 
eggs, which should be. laid in icy water as soon as cooked. Sea- 
son with onion juice, butter, celery salt and paprika (Hungarian 
pepper), add % cup of white sauce, and beat in the beaten whites 
of 3 eggs. Fill into the buttered timbale molds (conical tin cups), 
place them in a pan with boiling water and bake twenty minutes 
in hot oven. Kemove the timbales from the molds, put on a hot 
platter, broad end down, pour a drawn butter sauce around, 
sprinkle the minced 5 yolks all over and serve hot. 

A great variety of timbales is possible with molds of various 
shapes and by using other materials, as macaroni laid in spirals 
or cut in neat rings, the centers being filled with forcemeat or a 
mixture of sweetbreads, mushrooms and-white sauce, or a crust 
of mashed potato filled with creamed fish, or any nice combination 
fancy may suggest. (See Recipe 159, page 55.) 

573. BRAINS. 

All brains being similar in character, it does not matter much 
from what food animal the brains are taken. 

(1.) Stewed Brains. — Put the brains in salted water for two 
or three hours to get rid of the blood, and then boil thirty minutes 
in stewpan with enough water to cover. Pour the water ofif ; add 
1 teacup of milk or cream, 1 pinch of salt, a little pepper and about 



DEPARTMENT 10. 183 

ll/^-ounce of butter. Boil quickly ten or twelve minutes, add 1 
teaspoonful of vinegar and serve. 

(2.) Forcemeat (finely chopped meat) of Brains. — Put the 
brains into a little warm water, let soak for three hours. Take 
out, clean and boil ; when cold, chop up small and pound in mor- 
tar with little flour, parsley (finely minced) ; salt and pepper to 
taste ; add enough egg to moisten, and make into small iDalls ;■ put 
into frying pan with a little butter or fat, and fry for about ten 
minutes, or until brown. Ready for use when taken out. 

574. FORCEMEAT PATTIES. 

Roll out a puff paste about half an inch thick, cut in circular 
shape, six to eight inches across, or if for individual patties, three 
inches across. Then cut another smaller circle in the center two- 
thirds through, from three-quarters of an inch to one inch and a 
half from the margin. Brush the top with yolk of egg and bake 
thirty mintites in a hot oven. Do not open the oven door during 
the first fifteen minutes. Take out, run a knife blade under the 
smaller circle and lift it off carefully. Remove any raw parts in- 
side the patty, brush the inside with white of egg and return to 
the oven until brown. Put in the filling (hot forcemeat or vegeta- 
ble salpicon), put the cover in place and serve. 

575. CHICKEN PATTIES. 

Mince fine the white meat of 1 cold boiled or roasted fowl 
after removing all the skin, and mix with half the quantity of 
minced ham. Put in a stewpan with half veal stock and half 
cream, the juice of I/2 a lemon, the skin of % a lemon minced, a 
roux made of 1 tabkspoonful each of butter and flour, rubbed to- 
gether, and salt and red or white pepper to taste. Put on the fire 
and cook ten minutes while constantly stirring. When cooked, 
should be of the proper consistency to fill easily into patty shells 
made of puff paste, through a hole in the top. 

576. SWEETBREADS. 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water two or three hours, 
changing the water several times, to extract all the blood, then 



184 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

put on the fire with enough water to cover. Let come to a boil 
quickly; simmer about twenty minutes longer, take out and 
plunge into cold water. After five minutes take out and remove 
all the fibrous and veinous part, without, however, spoiling the 
shape of the sweet breads. 

If to be fried, cut with a silver knife into slices half an inch 
thick, dip in egg beaten with a little melted butter and chopped 
parsley, cover with crumbs, season with salt and pepper, dip in 
egg and roll in crumbs again, press gently into shape, let stand 
ten minutes or more and fry in boiling fat. (In batter if desired.) 

5761/2- LOBSTER CUTLETS. 
Take 2 cans of lobster or the meat of a large fresh ope and cut 
into pieces %-inch square. Put in a stewpan a lump of butter 
the size of an egg and cook into it a small tablespoonful of flour 
and 2 rolled crackers, then add 1 cupful of good milk and 1 beaten 
egg; when it boils, add the lobster, stir and take off the fire. 
Butter a square tin pan and pour the mixture into it. It should 
be about 1 inch thick. When cold cut in squares, dip in beaten 
egg, then in cracker crumbs, put in a wire basket, plunge in hot 
fat and fry to a nice brown. Arrange on a hot platter, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

577. LAMB SWEETBREADS SAUTES. 

Wash well in salted water and put in boiling water for fifteen 
minutes. Take out, let cool, trim and dry, and put in a frying 
pan, in which a little good butter is about to sizzle (boiling hot). 
Keep shaking the pan and tossing the sweetbreads so they be- 
come evenly and delicately colored, season with pepper and salt, 
dish up neatly, pour tomato sauce around, garnish with thin slice 
of lemon and a sprig of parsley and serve hot. 

578. CALF'S HEAD A LA VINAIGRETTE. 

After a calf's head is boiled, take all the soft parts oflf the bones 
in neat pieces, split the tongue in two, divide the brains and ar- 
range all the parts artistically on a platter, garnish with parsley 
and serve hot, with a cold sauce consisting of 3 tablespoonfuls of 
oil, 1 of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each of chopped onion, chopped 
parsley and capers, and 1 saltspoonful each of pepper and salt. 







Department 11. 

THE French word "dessert" is derived from "desservir," "to clean up the 
table," and means, therefore, the last course of the meal, which should be 
a happy "wind-up." Human ingenuity has devised a hundred kinds of 
dessert, so that a good housekeeper should never be at a loss for variety, but 
the simplest and most natural aiter-dinner dish consists of ripe, luscious fruit. 
It is important, however, that these dainties should not only be made of the 
best materials, but carefully prepared and tastefully served. 

This department comprises puddings and sauces ; also fruit dumplings, 
custards, blanc manges, jellies, creams, ice cream, water ices and sherbets. 

579. BAKED APPLES. 

Pare and core apples of equal size, place in baking dish, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar, lemon juice and melted butter, 
bake as usual and fill centers with apricot sauce. Place in fancy 
dish, surround with border of milk rice, dusted with sugar and 
cinnamon, ornament with candied cherries, bits of candied ginger 
or candied pumpkin or melon, raisins or almonds, as preferred, 
and serve with apple syrup. 

Pears, apricots and peaches may be cooked in a similar manner. 

580. BAKED APPLES— NO. 2. 

Pare and core cooking-apples of small equal size, place in 
baking dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar, lemon-juice and 
melted butter, put 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar in each cavity. 
Cover and put in moderate oven. When done, take out, to pre- 
vent the apples from losing their shape. Dish and fill the cavities 
with red currant jelly. 



185 



186 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Syrup made of red currant jelly, a pat of butter and 1 glass of 
Madeira or Sherry may be brushed over the apples, which should 
then be placed in hot oven for a few seconds, and served imme- 
diately. 

The apples may be filled with nut meat and sugar, or chopped 
raisins and sugar, and each apple, when done, should be topped 
with a little meringue. 

581. BAKED BANANAS. 

Strip the peel off the bananas and lay side by side in shallow 
granite baking pan ; sprinkle over each 1 teaspoonful sugar ; put 
a little water in bottom of pan and bake in brisk oven for about 
twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

582. STEWED PRUNES. 

Thoroughly wash the prunes and cover with cold water. Let 
stand for several hours, over night if convenient; then set on 
back of range and let simmer (never boil prunes) for several 
hours. If wanted for sauce, add enough sugar to make the syrup 
rich and thick. Prunes make an excellent dessert when served 
with cream and sugar. 

583. PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Do not cut peaches up in small pieces but only in halves ; re- 
move the stones, sprinkle with sugar, pour on rich cream and 
serve. 

584. STEWED PEARS. 

Select 6 or 8 sound large pears; peel but do not remove the 
stems. Lay in cold water as soon as peeled. Cover with water 
in saucepan and boil until soft, with 2 ozs. of butter, a few cloves 
or a stick of cinnamon, and sugar enough to sweeten well. When 
soft, take out of syrup, brush with yolk of egg, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and arrange in a dish, stems up. Add to the 
syrup % oz. of gelatine soaked in cold water. Cook five minutes, 



DEPARTMENT 11 187 

strain and pour around the pears. The syrup may be colored with 
a little carmine or cochineal, if desired. 

585. OLD MAID'S BAKED PEARS. 

Wash and dry fresh sound pears but do not break the skin. 
Place in baking dish with water enough to prevent burning, cover 
and bake forty minutes. Serve with rich sugar syrup. 

586. PRUNE PUFF (SOUFFLE). 

Remove the pits and as much of the skin as possible from 1 
pound of stewed prunes, press through a fine colander or sieve. 
Beat the whites of 4 eggs to stiff froth, add 1 cupful of fine sugar 
and beat again ; then add the strained prunes and beat until thor- 
oughly mixed, put in buttered baking dish and bake about half an 
hour. Serve with whipped cream or custard made with yolks of 
the eggs. 

587. PRUNE PUFF— NO. 2. 

Cook and sweeten ^^ pound best prunes as for sauce. Remove 
the pits and beat fine with fork. White of 7 eggs beaten until 
stiff and dry, a pinch of salt, ^^ teaspoon vanilla extract. Add 
a little of the beaten egg gradually to prunes to mix well. Then 
the remainder of egg more rapidly. Bake in well buttered deep 
pudding dish about twenty minutes in moderate oven. Serve 
soon after removing from oven, with whipped cream and some 
kind of loaf cake. 

588. CREAMED GRAPES. 

Make syrup by boiling without stirring 1 pound of sugar in 1 
gill of water. When the syrup becomes brittle on being dipped 
into ice water, remove from fire and set in vessel containing boil- 
ing water, and stir in 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. Wash and 
dry carefully good fresh grapes by rolling in a towel, dip each 
grape into the syrup and lay on waxed paper to dry. The grapes 
may be grasped with pincers or a wire, or toothpick may be run 
into them. 



188 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

589. GRAPE FRUIT. 

Cut the fruit in halves ac»Dss, not lengthways, remove the 
seeds and as much of the white membrane as can be taken away 
without mutilating the fruit, and put on ice before serving. Some 
prefer the fruit without sugar, but the seeds can be taken out and 
the spaces can be filled with sugar. Flavor of grape fruit best. 

590. APPLE DUMPLING. 

Mix 4 cupfuls of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar and 2 of 
soda by sifting two or three times, rub in lump of butter the size 
of a walnut, stir in 2 cupfuls of sour milk, turn out on the board 
and work into smooth dough, roll out to }4 inch thickness, and cut 
in 4 inch squares, put part of 1 apple in middle of each one, bring 
corners together, pinch up openings and boil, bake or steam about 
one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar if baked, and with 
boiled sauce if steamed or boiled. 

591. THE TRILBY PUDDING. 

Use a well greased pudding dish, pare as many apples as will 
cover the bottom of the dish. Before putting in dish cut off tips 
and lay aside. Scrape out centers of apples, cut fine a few 
blanched almonds and add currants, sugar, and cinnamon. Mix 
and fill in the apples ; then put on the tips and set in dish. Take 
1 cup of bread crumbs, yolks of 5 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, and add 
slowly the well beaten whites and pour over the apples. Bake in 
moderate oven one hour. The pudding should be served hot. 

Sauce for Pudding: Juice of 2 lemons, 1 cup of sugar, yolks 
of 2 eggs, 1 gill of water, set on stove. A little brandy added to 
filling of apples adds to flavor, but also good without brandy. 

592. SMOTHERED APPLE PUDDING. 

Reduce to crumbs any stale light cake (bread will do but is 
not so nice). If very dry, steam first, and rub fine between the 
hands. Pare, core and quarter very tart apples and cut each quar- 
ter into 3 sections. Butter a granite pudding dish, cover bottom 
with layer o^ the slices, then a very light layer of crumbs, and so 
on, until the pudding is as large as needed ; make the last layer of 
crumbs a little thicker than the others ; cover with a tin or granite 



DEPARTMENT 11 189 

cover and bake until the apples are well cooked. Stir together 
1 cupful of sugar and y^ cupful of butter, spread over the top and 
return to oven, leaving off cover. When brown, spread over the 
beaten whites of 2 or 3 eggs into which powdered sugar has been 
beaten, return to oven and brown slightly. 

593. APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Cut off a stale, even-grained loaf of white bread, perfect slices 
J4 inch thick, cut these into strips 1^4 inch wide and of the length 
of the charlotte mold to be used. Also cut 1 for the bottom, I 
piece or several close-fitting pieces, according to size of the mold. 
Grease mold with melted butter ; dip the pieces of bread for the 
bottom in melted butter and place. Then dip and place the strips 
of bread around the inside of mold, overlapping each other. Fill 
mold with stiff apple sauce, passed through sieve and flavored 
with sugar, lemon and ground cinnamon. Cake crumbs may be 
used in this sauce. Trim the bread even, bake forty minutes in 
fairly hot oven. Turn out on hot dish, pour hot fruit syrup round, 
and serve at once. 

594. APPLES AND RICE. 

Peel, halve and core 8 good-sized apples, put in stewpan with 
3 ozs. butter, sift sugar over, sprinkle with minced rind of y^ a 
lemon, stew gently until tender, but not soft enough to lose their 
shape. Arrange in dish a bed of sweetened milk rice so as to form 
a high ridge in center ; arrange the apples on it, dust with grated 
nutmeg and pour over any kind of hot jam. 

595. BAKED APPLE TAPIOCA. 

Pare and core 6 large tart apples, place in pudding dish and 
put 1 tablespoonful af granulated sugar in each apple. Then take 
1 tablespoonful of pearl tapioca for each apple and put loose in 
the dish around the fruit. Pour on 3 tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 of ground cinnamon or 
cloves. Pour in 3 cupfuls of water, cover and bake in hot oven for 
about one hour. The tapioca should be soaked over night. 



190 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

596. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak 2 tablespoonfuls tapioca over night in enough water to 
cover it. Put 1 quart of milk in double boiler, beat the yolks of 
4 eggs and 1 cupful of sugar, stir into the boiling milk until thick. 
Do not let boil again. Put tapioca into pudding dish, pour the 
hot custard over tapioca, mix together thoroughly and' bake one- 
half hour. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth with 2/3 cupful 
powdered sugar ; spread over custard, return to oven and bake to 
a golden brown. Serve either hot or cold. 

597. TAPIOCA ICE. 

Soak 1 cupful tapioca over night, in the morning bring to k 
boil, put in large cupful sugar and boil until clear. Free 1 good- 
sized pineapple from all specks and chop fine ; pour the tapioca 
Iboiling hot over pineapple, stir together, pour into molds or cups, 
and when cold serve with cream and sugar. 

598. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Make light batter of 5 tablespoonfuls flour with cold water. 
Add pinch of salt and 1 beaten egg. Beat six or seven minutes, 
pour into buttered tin and bake to rich brown in quick oven. Cut 
into squares and serve with roast beef. 

599. RICE PUDDING SOUFFLE. 

One-half cupful rice cooked soft, in double boiler, with 1 pint 
milk, 1 tablespoonful butter and % cupful sugar. When soft, 
pass through sieve and add 4 well beaten eggs and piece of lemon 
when lukewarm. Bake in pudding dish, in moderate oven, fifteen 
minutes. Serve at once as it will fall if not used immediately. 

600. BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Put 2 cupfuls rice into 2 quarts of milk and bake one hour. 
Beat together 4 eggs, 2/3 cupful of butter, 2 cupfuls sugar ; stir 
into the partially cooked rice, add more milk, if necessary, and 
bake another hour. 



DEPARTMENT 11 191 

601. RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Put into pudding dish 1 cupful of rice and 3 pints of good rich 
milk, add 1 teacupful sugar and bake three hours ; stir thoroughly 
every ten or fifteen minutes. This is sometimes called creamed 
rice. 

602. ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of suet chopped fine; 1 pound flour, 1 pound of 
bread crumbs, 1 pound of sugar, 2 pounds of raisins, stoned and 
chopped, 2 pounds currants, picked, washed and dried, 1 pound 
figs, chopped fine, % pound mixed, citron and orange peel, sliced 
fine, 1 oz. mixed spice, 3 tablespoonfuls molasses, 4 beaten eggs, 

1 tablespoonful salt. Mix together with 1 quart of milk, place in 
pudding bag and boil in water three hours and a half. Boil stead- 
ily to prevent the pudding from absorbing the water. 

603. FIG PUDDING. 

One pound of figs, chopped fine, 1 quart grated bread, 1 cupful 
powdered sugar, i^ cupful butter, 4 beaten eggs and 2 cupfuls 
sweet milk; stir together, place in pudding dish and steam one 
and one-half hours. Serve with sauce. 

604. FIG PUDDING— NO. 2. 

Chop 1 cup walnut meat, ^ cup of dates and 10 figs together. 
Mix Yz cup each of graham flour and sugar, pour into 1 quart 
boiling water, add 1 teaspoonful salt, and when boiling again add 
the nuts, cook and stir fifteen minutes more, and then form into 
molds. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

605. CANADIAN FIG PUDDING. 

Chop 1 pound suet, 1 of figs, add 1 cup bread crumbs, Yz cup 
sweet milk, 1 of sugar, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful soda. Steam in 
mold two hours. Sauce. — ^Two cups fine white sugar, 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, 4 of brandy or wine. Stir butter and 
sugar to a cream, beat eggs and mix just before serving with 1 
cup boiling Water or milk. 



193 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

606. FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cupful molasses, 1 cupful sweet milk, y^ cupful but- 
ter, 1 cupful stoned and chopped raisins, l^ cupful currants, 
21^ cupfuls flour, y^ teaspoonful soda, J4 teaspoonful grated 
nutmeg and pinch of salt. Mix well, and steam two hours. 

607. FRUIT PUDDING— NO. 2. 

Line a bowl with thin slices of bread and fill with fruit; ripe 
peaches are best. Soak 1 tablespoonful gelatine in i^ cupful cold 
water one-half hour, then add 2 cupfuls of sweet milk, 1 cupful 
of sugar, put in a saucepan and let boil, pour over the fruit and 
bread and set in refrigerator. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

608. FRUIT PUDDING— NO. 3. 

Beat 4 yolks of eggs until light ; beat in 1 cupful of sugar and 
1 heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch dissolved in little cold milk ; 
then stir in very slowly 1 quart scalding hot milk and keep stir- 
ring until it begins to thicken. Remove from fire and flavor with 
vanilla. In a pudding dish put layer of stale cake crumbs, then 3 
sliced bananas, 2 sliced large oranges and pour the cooled custard 
over them. Spread over top a meringue made of 4 whites of egg 
and 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, sprinkle with chopped 
almonds if desired, and brown lightly in oven. 

609. BLUEBERRY OR BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

One quart berries, 3 cups flour. Mix together, add 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 tablespoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful salt, cinnamon, nutmeg 
and cloves to taste. Steam two and one-half hours. Serve with 
wine sauce. 

610. STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

Sprinkle lady-fingfcrs or stale sponge cake with chopped 
almonds. Line buttered pudding dish with this and fill with 
fresh, sugared strawberries. Beat % cup sugar with 3 yolks of 
eggs until light, add juice of 1 orange and pour on the fruit. Bake 
slowly until top begins to brown. Take from oven. Make a 



DEPARTMENT 11 193 

meringue of whites of 3 eggs beaten to froth, add 3 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, flavor with vanilla and spread over top. Stick a few 
blanched almonds into meringue and bake in slow oven until firm. 

611. WIDOWS' PEACH PUDDING. 

Cut 1 pint peeled peaches into small pieces. Mix the peaches 
to a smooth batter with 1 cup milk, 1 pint flour, y^ teaspoonful 
salt, 2 of baking powder, 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter, y^ cup 
sugar and yolks of two eggs. Beat white of eggs stiff and add 
with fruit, then bake in mold. Place on dish and surround with 
hard sauce flavored with vanilla. 

612. ICELAND PUDDING. 

Make a thin paste with cold water and 2 tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch. Pour over 1 cupful boiling water and cook clear. Add 
juice of % lemon, the stiff beaten white of 2 eggs, and 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar. Beat until mixed, pour into circular mold and 
let it get cold. Turn over on plate, fill center with canned fruit 
(without juice,) and serve with boiled custard. 

613. QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One quart of milk, 1 cup sugar, grated rind of one lemon, 1 
pint grated bread crumbs, yolks 4 eggs, 1 large tablespoon but- 
ter. Bake until solid like custard. Whip white of eggs stiff. 
beat sugar in teacup, over which has been strained the juice of 
lemon. Spread layer of jelly over the pudding. Pour over beaten 
white of eggs and brown slightly in moderate oven. 

614. FARINA PUDDING. 

Same as Queen of Puddings, only instead of bread crumbs, use 
1 cup farina after being cooked in double boiler. 

615. NUT PUDDING. 

Beat 6 eggs separately. To yolks add 1^^ cups granulated 
sugar. To whites, beaten lightly, add 3 cups English walnut 



194 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

meats, chopped. Mix together, stir in 1 teaspoonful vanilla, sift 
in 1 teaspoonful baking powder with 1 teaspoonful of flour. Bake. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

616. SUET PUDDING. 

Two-thirds of cupful suet chopped fine, 1 cupful of molasses, 
1 cupful of sweet milk, 1 cupful of stoned raisins, Yz cupful sugar, 
S cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 1 grated nutmeg. Mix 
all together thoroughly, put in pudding dish and steam three 
hours. Serve with sauce. 

617. SUET PUDDING— NO. 2. 

Two-thirds cupful of suet chopped fine, 2/3 cupful of molasses, 
Yz cupful sour milk, li^ cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 of 
cloves, 1 of cinnamon, 1 beaten egg, 1 cupful stoned raisins ; stir 
together and boil or steam for three hours. 

618. GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One cupful of molasses, 1 cupful of sweet milk, 1 cupful of 
stoned raisins, 1 beaten egg, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 1 
teaspoonful soda, 2 cupfuls of graham flour ; put in pudding dish, 
steam two hours, and serve with sauce. 

619. NEW ENGLAND INDIAN PUDDING. 

Pour over 5 tablespoonfuls Indian meal which has been wet 
with water lYs pints of boiling water and mix in 1 cupful mo- 
lasses, a little salt, 1 teaspoonful butter and 1 egg. Pour over 
about 1 pint of milk without stirring. Bake in slow oven four 
and one-half hours. 

620. STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mix together 2 cupfuls of meal, 1 of flour, 1 of suet chopped 
fine, 1 of stoned raisins, 1 of molasses, 1 of sweet milk; add % 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, and a pinch of salt. Put 
in buttered pudding dish, and steam three hours. 



DEPARTMENT 11 195 

621. STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING— NO. 2. 

Beat together 2 eggs, 1 large cupful of light brown sugar, 1 
cupful of stoned raisins or currants, 1 cupful flour, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder and 1 of salt, then add enough corn meal to make 
stiff batter. Put in pudding dish and steam three hours. Serve 
with sauce. 

622. BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Boil 1 quart milk, and stir into it 2/3 cupful meal and let cook 
a few minutes, then take from fire, and when cool, stir in i/^ cup- 
ful each of sugar, molasses and butter, 1 tgg, 1 teaspoonful ginger, 
% teaspoonful cinnamon, and pinch of salt. Put in buttered pud- 
ding dish, and bake one hour. 



623. BAKED INDIAN PUDDING— NO. 2. 

Beat 1 egg light, add 1 quart of milk, 1^^ cupfulsof brown 
sugar, 2 of stoned raisins, 4 apples pared and sliced, 1 cupful 
chopped suet, 1 pint Indian meal and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Bake 
in slow oven one and one-half hours, stirring occasionally. 



624. BAKED INDIAN PUDDING— NO. 3. 

Boil 1 pint of milk and salt. Wet 1 cup of Indian meal with 
cold water, and stir into the boiling milk, also 1 cup of chopped 
suet or % cup of butter. Set to cool, then add 1 pint of milk, 3 
eggs, 1 cup of molasses and 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. Bake two 
and one-half hours. 



625. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk and 3 ozs. grated chocolate, scalded to- 
gether ; when cold, add the beaten yolks of 5 eggs and 1 cupful of 
sugar. Bake twenty-five minutes. Beat whites of 5 eggs to a 
stiff froj;h with i/^ cupful powdered sugar; spread upon the pud- 
ding, place in oven and brown. 



196 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

626. CHOCOLATE PUDDING—NO. 2. 

Put J4 pound brol^en chocolate in stewpan with % pint of 
milk, and boil up. Melt 2 ozs. of butter in another stewpan, stir in 
2 ozs. flour, cook short time, but do not let it take color; add 2 
ozs. of cake crumbs, then the milk and chocolate, and work round 
and round with spoon over lire until the whole clings to the spoon. 
Let cool, then work in 4 yolks of eggs one by one. Beat the whites 
of eggs stiff, work in with % teaspoonful vanilla essence, pour 
into buttered plain mold, cover with buttered paper, Steam one 
and one-half hours, or bake one hour in moderate oven. Turn 
©ut on hot dish, serve with chocolate sauce. 

627. CARROT PUDDING. 

One-half cup currants, Yz cup raisins, 1 cup potatoes, 1 cup 
carrots grated, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y^ teaspoon ground nutmeg, 
Yz teaspoon ground cloves, 1 teaspoon soda stirred in potatoes, 5 
tablespoons flour, 5 tablespoons brown sugar, 2 tablespoons but- 
ter. Mix the flour, raisins and currants well ; steam three hours ; 
comes out like plum pudding. 

628. DUCHESS PUDDING. 

Cream J4 pound of butter with ^ pound powdered sugar, 
adding gradually the yolks of 6 eggs ; stir in % pound of maca- 
roons lightly pounded and 3 tablespoonfuls orange marmalade. 
Beat the 6 whites of eggs stiff, add 1 teaspoonful of rice-flour and 
Y2 oz. of pistachios (Oriental nut) and mix all carefully. Butter 
any suitable mold, sprinkle bottom , With another Y2 oz. of 
pistachios and pour in the mixture. Steam one hour and fifteen 
minutes, drop out of the mold and serve with a hot sweet sauce. 

629. BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Pare as many large Greening apples as there are people to be 
served, take out core with apple corer, but do not cut entirely 
through the apple ; fill cavity with as much butter and sugar as it 
will hold, place the apples side by side in baking-pan (granite 



DEPARTMENT 11 197 

one best), and cover with batter made of 1 pint sweet milk, 3 well 
beaten eggs, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1/4 cupful of butter and enough 
flour to make batter of the thickness of cake dough. Bake in mod- 
erate oven until the apples are thoroughly done, and serve with 
hard sauce. 

630. SPONGE PUDDING. 

Three cupfuls of flour, IV^ cupfuls of butter, 1 cupful of milk, 
4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful soda, 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. Beat the 
butter, sugar and yolks of eggs together, put the cream tartar 
into flour, and soda into milk, mix all together, add the beaten 
whites of the eggs and steam two hours. 



631. SPONGE PUDDING— NO. 2. 

Scald % cupful flour in 1 pint of milk, constantly stirring. 
When boiling remove from fire, and when cool, add Yz cupful each 
of sugar and butter, the well beaten yolks of 5 eggs, and finally 
the whites beaten lightly. Place the pudding dish in pan of boil- 
ing water and bake forty-five minutes. Serve with hard sauce. 



632. ALMOND SPONGE PUDDING. 

Prepare nice sponge cake, stick full of blanched almonds, make 
custard, as for Floating Island, and pour over cake. A little wine 
can be added to the custard for flavoring, if desired. 



633. CHOCOLATE SPONGE PUDDING. 

Make sponge cake as follows : Beat lightly 3 eggs, add 1 cup- 
ful sugar and beat for three minutes more, then add 1 cupful 
flour into which has been sifted 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 
stir well and add % cupful of boiling water, season with 1 tea- 
spoonful lemon or vanilla extract ; pour into square pan and bake 
in moderate oven. When cool cut into 2 inch squares and pour 
over a cream made as follows: Place in double boiler 1 pint of 
milk and when hot stir in % cupful of sugar into which has been 



198 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

mixed 1 tablespoonful cornstarch and 1 bar unsweetened choc- 
olate grated fine and 1 small lump of butter. Stir until smooth 
and pour over the squares. 

634. PEACH SPONGE. 

One-half package gelatine, 1 pint canned peaches, the whites 
of 5 eggs, 1 scant cupful of sugar, 1% cupfuls of water. Soak 
gelatine for two hours in ^ cup of water. Boil 1 cupful of 
water and sugar fifteen minutes. Mash peaches fine and put in 
syrup. Cook five minutes, stirring all the time, then ptit in gela- 
tine and cook five minutes. When nearly cool stir in whites of 
eggs. 

635. CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

Put into double boiler 1 quart of milk and let come to boil. 
Beat together 5 tablespoonfuls corn starch, 3 eggs, and 1 cupful 
of sugar, stir into the boiling milk and cook five minutes; pour 
into mold or cups and serve cold with whipped cream. 

636. PUFF PUDDING. 

Beat yolks and whites of 6 eggs separately, mix the yolks with 
12 heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 quart of milk and ^ tea- 
spoonful of salt, stir in the whites, and bake in hot oven. 

637. SNOW PUDDING. 

To % package of gelatine dissolved in 1 cup of cold water 
add 1 cupful of boiling water, 1% cupfuls of sugar, the juice of 
1 lemon and the whites of 4 eggs well beaten! Beat until light 
and serve with boiled custard made of the yolks and 1 pint of milk, 
flavored with the grated rind of the lemon. 

638. BLACK PUDDING. 

One cupful of molasses, 1 of butter, 1 of sugar, 1 of sour milk, 
3 of flour, 4 eggs, 1 grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful soda. Beat 
the butter and sugar together, add the eggs and molasses, then 
the sour milk and the soda dissolved in a little hot water, stir in 



DEPARTMENT 11 199 

the flour, put in buttered pudding-dish, and steam two hours. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

639, MINUTE PUDDING. 

Let 1 quart of milk come to boil, add a little salt, then stir into 
the milk 4 tablespoonfuls flour, and 3 beaten eggs ; cook for four or 
five minutes. Serve with cream and sugar. 

640. MOUNTAIN DEW PUDDING. 

Mix 3 rolled crackers, 1 pint of milk, the yolks of 2 eggs and 
1 teaspoonful of butter, bake half an hour. Put on top the whites 
beaten stiff with 1 cup of sugar and bake fifteen minutes. 

641. EGG PUDDING. 

Put 1 quart of milk in double boiler and let come to boil ; mix 
9 tablespoonfuls of flour with 1 pint of cold milk, and stir into 
the boiling milk and let remain on fire untiL well cooked. Beat 
the yolks of 1 doz. eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 3 of melted 
butter. Take boiler from fire, stir in the eggs, sugar, etc., beat 
the whites of the eggs and stir in. Butter pudding dish, pour in 
the mixture, set the dish in pan of hot water, and bake one hour, 
oven moderately hot. Serve with sauce. 

642. CABINET PUDDING, 

Cover the bottom of a 2 quart pudding dish with layer of stale 
cake, sprinkle over 1 spoonful of chopped citron and bits of butter, 
then another layer of cake, citron and butter, until the dish is 
2/3 full. Beat together 3 eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy, the 
rind and juice of 1 lemon, % cupful of sugar, unless the cake is too 
swieet, and 1 quart of milk ; pour over contents of the pudding 
dish and bake one-half hour. 

643. PRUNE PUDDING. 

Wash 1 pound of best prunes, cover with water, and steam 
until tender ; stone and chop fine, and then add 1 cupful of granu- 



300 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

lated sugar. Beat whites of 4 eggs stiff and add the prunes 
gradually, beating continuously. Then put in covered dish, bake 
for fifteen or twenty minutes, in hot oven, take off cover and bake 
for a few minutes longer until brown. Serve with whipped cream 
or white cream sauce. 

644. CHERRY PUDDING. 

Bring to a boil in double boiler 1 pint milk ; add 1 pint bread 
crumbs, butter' the size of an egg, pinch of salt, 3 well beaten eggs, 
1 cupful sugar, 1 pinch ground cinnamon, 2 cupfuls pitted cher- 
ries. Stir well, pour into buttered pudding dish ; bake one hour. 

645. ORANGE PUDDING. 

Put 1 quart of milk in double boiler, place over fire, when 
hot stir in 4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch dissolved in water, the 
well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs and lJ/$ cupfuls sugar. Pour the cus- 
tard over 6 sliced oranges, cut and sugared two hours before, cover 
with well beaten white of 2 eggs, place in oven and brown slightly. 

646. RHUBARB PUDDING. 

Peel and cut into inch lengths, 1^ dozen stalks rhubarb, put 
in stewpan, add 1 quart of water and boil until tender, but not 
long enough to break the pieces. Then drain, dry, mash and 
sweeten with light brown-sugar. Mix thoroughly with 1 pint of 
boiled rice, press into cups or one large mold and set away to 
cool. When cold serve with whipped cream. 

647. POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

Use 1 cupful suet, 3 cups flour, 1 egg, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
raisins (seeded), 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in 1 cup sweet milk; 
spices to taste. Steam three hours ; serve with liquid sauce. 

647>4. COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Take 1 quart of sweet milk, 1 cup powdered sugar, whites of 
10 eggs, 10 tablespoons grated cocoanut ; bake one hour in a slow 
oven with even fire. To be served cold with sugar and cream. 



DEPARTMENT 11 301 

648. GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Grate the corn of 1 dozen ears of tender green corn, add 1 
quart of sweet milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour dissolved in a lit- 
tle milk, 1/3 cupful butter, 4 well beaten eggs, salt and pepper 
to taste. Bake in a hot oven one hour. Serve with sweet sauce. 

649. LEMON TOAST. 

Beat yolks of 3 eggs until light and add 1% cupfuls of sweet 
milk and pinch of salt. Dip slices of stale baker's bread in egg 
and milk, and fry to nice brown in equal parts of lard and butter. 
Arrange the fried toast on platter and cover with dressing made 
as follows : Beat whites of 3 eggs until stiff, add V^ cupful of fine 
white sugar and juice of 1 lemon. Beat together, with 1 cupful 
of hot water. Pour over toast and serve at once. 

650. ESQUIRES. 

(Excellent way of using up stale bread.) 
Cut ^2 loaf of stale white bread into slices y^ inch thick. Boil 
up 1 quart of milk sweetened to taste and flavored with vanilla. 
Let get cold and soak the bread in the milk a short time. Beat 
up 3 whites and 1 yolk of egg with little salt, dip the bread slices 
in this, and fry in hot butter or lard to light golden color, drain 
on paper, sprinkle with sugar and ground cinnamon mixed, pile 
up in dish and serve hot, together with sauceboat of custard made 
of the remaining yolk of egg and milk, and a little cornstarch. 

651. FRUIT SAUCE. 

Boil berries or any other fruit until soft, rub through sieve 
and add enough sugar to sweeten ; boil until clear. Nice for corn 
starch pudding, blanc mange, or plain steamed puddings. 

652. FRUIT SAUCE— NO. 2. 

(For simple puddings.) 
Beat well 4 eggs. Work smooth' with little water 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of flour, add to the eggs, also 1/4 pound of sugar and 1 pint 



303 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

of fruit juice. Put on fire and stir gently until light and frothy. 
Serve at once. 

Raspberry, red or white currant, cherry juice, apple or pear 
cider, apricot jam, or any similar fruit preparation may be used 
in this way, and flavored to taste with a glass of brandy, sherry 
or an essence. 

653. BUTTER SAUCE. 

(Nice for boiled puddings.) 
Work to a cream % pound butter, stir in 1/4 pound of pow- 
dered sugar and 1 wineglassful brandy or rum. When smooth, 
pour around the pudding or serve separately. 

654. PLAIN SAUCE. 

Beat together 1 cupful sugar and the yolks of 2 eggs ; add the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor with 1 wine glass of wine, or 
with grated nutmeg, add 1 small teacupful boiling water, and stir 
until smooth. 

655. WINE SAUCE. 

Put 1 teacupful water into saucepan and let boil ; beat 1 cupful 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 tablespoonful flour and the 
yolk of 1 egg ; stir into boiling water, and when cooked and slight- 
ly cool, add 1 gill of wine. 

656. VINEGAR SAUCE. 

Take 1^^ cupfuls of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls flour wet in a 
little water, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, grated nutmeg to taste, 
pinch of salt ; mix well together, pour over 1^ pints of hat water, 
and let boil ten minutes. 

657. QUICK SAUCE. 

Make syrup of 1 cupful of sugar and % cupful of water over 
fire, -and when clear, stir in % cup or more of fruit juice or jam, 
or 1 wineglassful of wine, brandy or cordial. The sauce may be 
varied by finally adding 1 or 2 beaten yolks of egg, but it must 
not boil again after adding the egg. Serve hot. 



DEPARTMENT 11 303 



658. BRANDY SAUCE. 



Heat 1 tablespoonful of flour in saucepan without coloring 
it, work into it 3 ounces of good butter, stir in 1% cups of boiling 
water and 1 tablespoonful moist sugar, boil gently ten minutes, 
pour in 1 wineglass of brandy, and serve. 

659. BRANDY SAUCE— NO. 2. 

Dissolve 1 cupful of sugar in boiling water. Add slowly 1 
large tablespoonful of cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water, 
stir until clear, take off the fire and just before serving, add % a 
wineglass of brandy. Serve hot. 

660. LEMON SAUCE. 

Take 1 large tablespoonful of butter, 1 of flour, and 1 cupful of 
sugar ; beat together to a cream, then pour over it 1 cupful of boil- 
ing water, taking from the fire ; add 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 
ter. Flavor with lemon. 

661. CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Put 4 ozs. of grated chocolate, 2 ozs. of icing sugar and 3 
gills of water over the fire, stir until it boils. Mix 1 oz. of corn- 
starch with a gill of cold Water, add the chocolate ; bring to boil 
again, let simmer five minutes. Pour through a cloth, return 
to saucepan, add 1 tablespoonful of brandy and 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla essence. Keep hot. 

662. CUSTARD SAUCE. 

Put 1 pint of milk into double boiler and let come to the boil. 
Beat the yolks of 5 eggs, 1 small tablespoonful of corn starch, 
1 cupful of sugar; stir it into the milk and cook for three or 
four minutes ; flavor with lemon or vanilla, and use when cold. 

663. CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Put 1 cupful of sugar into small saucepan and add 1 lump 



204 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

of butter size of an egg; let boil for ten minutes; then add 1% 
cupfuls of water, and 1 beaten egg, stirring all the time. 

664. SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Take 2 cups of sugar, 2 eggs, butter the size of 1 egg, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, Yo teacupful of cold water; beat all together 
and pour into a pint of boiling milk or water; flavor with wine 
or brandy. A delicious sauce. 

665. COFFEE SAUCE. 

Pour % pint of boiling wiater over 2 ozs. of fine-ground roast- 
ed coffee berries. Cover and let stand on stove fpr few minutes. 
Strain and sweeten with plain syrup. Mix 1 dessertspoonful of 
arrowroot-flour or corn starch with 1 small glass of brandy or 
Kirsch, add and let simmer five minutes and serve. 

666. SAUCE FOR SUET PUDDING. 

One-half cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, beaten to a cream ; add 
the beaten yolk of 1 egg, grate in % a nutmeg, then stir in 1 table- 
spoonful of boiling water, and flavor with a little wine or brandy. 
Place where it will keep warm and just before serving add the 
well-beaten white of 1 egg. 

667. SNOWFLAKE SAUCE. 

Take 1 cupful of milk, put in stewpan and bring to boiling 
point ; then stir in 1 cupful of sugar which has been thoroughly- 
mixed with 1 tablespoonful of flour or cornstarch, and when 
thick add 1 tablespoonful of butter or 2 of thick cream. Set away 
to cool, and when cold, whip in the well beaten whites of 2 eggs 
and beat all to creamy foam. 

668. SNOW SAUCE. 

Cream together 1 cupful of sugar and 14 cupful of butter ; heat 
1 cupful of milk, thicken with 1 spoonful of flour mixed with cold 
water, being careful to avoid lumps, and when thick set away to 



DEPARTMENT 11 305 

cool. When cold add the creamed butter and sugar and beat; 
then add the beaten whites of 3 eggs and beat all to a froth. 
Flavoring may be added if desired. 

669. HARD SAUCE. 

. Stir % cupful of butter together with 1 cupful of sugar, until 
light and creamy. Flavor to taste. A great improvement on this 
old standby is beating into it a white of egg, beaten stiff, and 
flavoring with % teaspoon of vanilla or with ripe raspberries 
or strawberries. 

670. HARD SAUCE FOR SUET PUDDING. 

Beat together the whites of 3 eggs and 8 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Stir in 3 tablespoonfuls of best currant jelly. 

671. BOILED CUSTARD. 

Scald 1 quart of milk in double boiler. (The scalding point is 
reached when the water in the outer vessel comes to a boil.) Stir 
in the yolks of 4 eggs beaten together with from 3 to 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar according to the degree of sweetness desired, and a 
little salt. Stir until it begins to thicken, but do not let boil. If 
quick service is necessary, a little cornstarch beaten with the egg 
and sugar will hasten the cooking and will prevent curdling. 
When done, remove from fire, pour into cold dish, and flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 

The richness of the custard depends on the number of eggs 
used. If the custard is to be uesd as a sauce, it must be thin 
enough to pour, and should be taken from the fire sooner. It 
will thicken considerable while cooling. 

There are innumerable ways of varying or using custard, as 
by stirring in apple sauce, a fruit jelly, melted chocolate, shredded 
cocoanut, boiled rice, rice flour or tapioca, chopped almonds or 
nuts, or by pouring it over sliced apples, bananas, oranges or over 
macaroons, and by putting a meringue on top. 

Boiled custard is done, when a silver knife thrust in comes out 
thickly coated. 



206 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

672. BAKED CUSTARD. 

Make boiled custard as directed above, using 4 eggs or more, 
and adding a little nutmeg to the other flavoring. Then pour 
into cups, place in baking pan holding boiling water, and bake 
twenty minutes in moderate oven. Serve cold. 

Baked custard is done, when a silver knife thrust in comes out 
clean. 

673. ORANGE CUSTARD. 

Sweeten the juice of 6 large oranges to taste, using not less 
than Ys cupful of sugar, stir over fire till hot, skim carefully and 
cool. When nearly cold, add yolks of 6 eggs well beaten with 
Yz pint of cream. Stir over fire until thick. Serve cold. 

If desired, the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff with % cup of 
powdered sugar, may be put on top. 



674. TOMATO CUSTARD. 

Stew 1 quart of tomatoes, fresh or canned, remove the seeds 
by straining, stir in 3 whole eggs beaten with % teacup of pow- 
dered sugar, add 1 tablespoonful butter, pinch of salt and white 
pepper, bake in hot oven about twenty minutes. Serve either 
hot or cold. 

675. POP CORN CUSTARD. 

Take 1 quart freshly popped corn, put on pastry board and 
roll fine ; break 5 eggs in stirring bowl, beat light, then add 1% 
cupfuls sugar, lump of soft butter size of a walnut, 1 teaspoonful 
of salt and 1 quart of sweet milk. Beat together, add the pop- 
corn, bake about half an hour and serve cold. 



676. FLOATING ISLAND. 

Put 1 quart of milk in double boiler, beat the yolks of 6 fresh 
eggs with 1 teacupful of sugar, and add to the milk when scald- 
ing; flavor with 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon or with vanilla. Do not 
let boil. Set aside to cool. Beat the whites of 6 eggs to stiff 



DEPARTMENT 11 307 

froth with 2 tables'poonfuls of sugar ; pour the cold custard into 
dish lined with macaroons, put the snow on top, and decorate 
with bits of brightly colored jelly. 

677. RICE SNOWBALLS. 

Boil 6 ozs. of rice in 1 quart of sweetened milk in double 
boiler, flavoring with vanilla, lemon peel or almond paste, and 
adding more hot milk or water as required. When the rice is 
soft, pour into teacups or molds. When cold turn out on deep 
glass dish, pour 1 pint of boiled custard around and place a little 
bright colored jelly or preserve on top of each ball of rice. The 
custard should be flavored the same as the rice, if at all. 

678. BLANCMANGE. 

Put into double boiler 1 quart of sw'eet milk, and let come to 
a boil. Beat together 4 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, J4 
cup of milk, and add to the boiling milk. Cook for few minutes, 
dip cups in cold water, then fill with custard ; when firm turn out 
and serve with cream and sugar or with raspberry syrup. Raisins, 
currants or candied fruit make a nice addition. 



679. BLANC MANGE— NO. 2. 

Cover y2 package of gelatine with water. After two hours 
stir in % cup of sugar and 1 pint of milk scalding hot, but not 
boiled. When the gelatine is dissolved, strain, flavor with va- 
nilla, pour into mold wet with cold water, let cool and put in the 
refrigerator. 

680. CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

Put into double boiler 1 quart of milk. Dissolve 1 bar of good 
chocolate, add ® beaten eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 3 
heaping tablespoonfuls corn starch. Add to the boiling milk and 
boil ten minutes. Rinse a mold with cold water, pour in blanc 
mange and when firm turn out and serve with cream and sugar. 



208 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

681. CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE— NO. 2, 

Put 2 quarts of milk in double boiler and let come to a boil ; 
grate % cake of good chocolate and boil for one hour. T%ke 1 
box of gelatine, dissolve and add to the milk, sweeten with 2 
cups of sugar, flavor with vanilla, strain and put into a mold. 

682. BANANA BLANC MANGE. 

Boil 1 quart of milk, stir in 2 oz. sugar, and 2 oz. corn-starch 
wet with a little cold milk. Stir over fire till thick, add 2 yolks of 
egg and % teaspoon vanilla essence. Let the eggs bind and put 
aside to cool. Peel and slice 2 banlinas, mix in with above^ Fill 
into one or two wetted. molds, put on ice. When set, immerse 
the mold in warm water, turn out on cold dish and serve with 
cold fruit syrup. 

683. RED PUDDING. 

Favorite dish in Scandinavia and Germany. Popular and re- 
freshing. Pick and wash 1 quart each of ripe red currants and 
raspberries. Put on fire with 1 cup of water, bring to boil and 
simmer until soft., Press through jelly-bag, sweeten juice, add 2 
heaping tablespoonfuls corn starch, rice flour or farina, and bring 
to boil again. Pour into molds rinsed with cold water, and when 
cold, serve with cream or vanilla sauce. 

Other fruit may be used in the same way, also rhubarb. 

684. FLUMMERY. 

Soak 1 ounce gelatine in 1 cup cold water two hours. Scald 
1 cup of milk in double boiler, and stir into it the gelatine, ^ cup 
of sugar and 2 ozs. almond paste rubbed smooth with a little 
rose water. Stir over fire until the ingredients are well dis- 
solved, then strain through thin muslin. Set aside until cold, add 
gradually 1 pint of cream, 1 spoonful at a time. Beat long and 
hard. Wihen thick and stiff turn into wet mold and set in the ice 
to form. • 

685, MOONSHINE. 

Beat the whites of 6 eggs to stiff froth and add, gradually, 6 



DEPARTMENT 11 209 

tablespoonfuls or more of powdered sugar, beating not less than 
thirty minutes. Then beat in 1 heaping tablespoonful of pre- 
served peaches cut in tiny bits, or Yz cup of jelly, and set on icfe. 
Serve on saucers, with sweetened vanilla cream. 

686. VELVET PEACH. 

Add 1 quart sweet cream, % cup sugar, 4 drops almond extract 
to 1 box gelatine dissolved in hot water. Cook until smooth, over 
boiling water. Add 1 glass white wine. Place about sides of a 
mold, pared and halved peaches, and pour in the "velvet" and 
place on ice until cold. Serve with boiled custard sauce flavored 
with vanilla or strawberry. 

687. ORANGE JELLY. 

Soak Vz box of gelatine in i^ cupful water twenty minutes, 
add 1 cup boiling water, and when dissolved, add 1 cupful sugar, 
the juice of 6 oranges and 1 lemon. Strain, pour in mold rinsed 
in cold water, and chill. 

688. PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

Pare medium-sized pineapple, grate, put in 1 quart of water 
and boil fifteen minutes ; add 1^ cupfuls sugar, and 3/3 box of 
gelatine, dissolved in little cold water. Strain through flannel 
bag, put into molds and set in cold place. 

689. LEMON JELLY. , 

Soak 1 box of gelatin in 1 cupful cold water over right. In 
morning grate rinds of 2 lemons, add juice of 4, and pour over it 
1 pint of boiling hot water, 2 cupfuls sugar, and when dissolved, 
the gelatin. Strain and set away for three hours. 

690. WINE JELLY. 

Boil up J4 pound sugar and thin rind of 1 orange and 1 large 
lemoii in 1 quart water. Add juice of the fruits, ll/^ gills of 
sherry or good white wine -and 1/3 oz. of coriander seed, and set 



210 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

aside to cool. Beat the whites and shells of 2 eggs, stir into syrup. 
Add 3 oz. best gelatin, previously soaked in cold water and well 
strained. Return to fire and stir until boiling. Let simmer until 
gelatin is dissolved. Pass through jelly-bag or fine cloth well 
rinsed in boiling water. Pass several times, until perfectly 
clear. Pour into molds, set to cool. When set, immerse the 
molds in warm water^ turn out on cold dish and serve. 

691. WINE JELLY— NO. 2. 

Soak Yz package of gelatin in % a pint cold water about two 
hours and pour into 1 pint boiling water. When boiling, add j4 
pint of wine, 1 cup sugar, juice and thinnest part of the rinds of 
2 or 3 lemons (being careful not to cut the white part, it is bit- 
ter), and 2 teaspoons caramel. Stir well, boil up, strain through 
very fine linen napkin and mold. Set on ice. 



692. NUT WINE JELLY. 

Soak 1 tablespoonful gelatin in cold water and pour into 1/3 
cup boiling water. When dissolved, add 1 scant cup sugar and 
stir until dissolved. Then add 1 wineglassful sherry, and juice 
of 2 oranges and 1 lemon. Pour ^^ of this into shallow dish, 
and, when set, decorate with, almonds, halves of walnuts or other 
nuts. Pour on the remaining liquid, chill and cut in squares 
containing one nut each. Serve with whipped cream. 



693. MIXED FRUIT JELLY. 

Dissolve iy2 pint wine jelly. Place a copper jelly mold in 
pan of broken ice, pour in little jelly and let set. Then arrange 
on top of it slices or halves of peaches, green gages, apples, 
bananas, or strawberries, raisins, etc., or a mixture of all, in a 
nice looking layer, then pour on enough jelly to just cover the 
fruit. When this is well set, another layer of fruit, and so on. 
Be sure every piece of fruit is dry. If not, wipe it dry. Put the 
mold on ice, until fully set. Immerse in tepid water, turn out 
on a folded napkin or silver dish, and serve. 



DEPARTMENT 11 311 

694. STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Lightly mash 14 pound of small fresh straw'berries in earth- 
en pan, pour over a syrup (made of % pound of sugar and 1 
pint of water, and cooled off a little), cover with strawberry 
leaves and let stand for one hour. Put 2 ounces soaked gelatin 
in stewpan ; add 1 pint water, the juice of 1 lemon and the syrup 
strained from the strawberries. Clarify with 2 whites of eggs, 
strain through jelly-bag until transparent. Put mold on ice, pour 
in a little of the jelly and let it run over every spot of the mold 
inside. Place nice, large strawberries in the mold as a decoration 
and pour the jelly in when cold enough. When ready to serve, 
turn out on cold dish. 

695. APPLE AND STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Wash strawberries carefully, put in stew pan, cover with boil- 
ing water and let simmer for eight minutes. Drain in jelly bag, 
bottle, cork tightly and put away for the fall season. Then cook 
apples as for apple jelly, take equal quantities of apple and straw- 
berry juice and boil twenty minutes with 1 cup of sugar for every 
cup of juice. 

696. JELLIED APPLES. 

Pare and core tart apples, put in granite baking pan and put 
over each 1 tablespoonful of white sugar. Pour about 1 quart 
of water into pan and bake until apples are tender, basting occa- 
sionally. Take apples out of pan with pancake turner and place 
carefully in glass dish. Soak ^/^ package gelatin in % cupful 
of cold water a few minutes, then pour over it little hot water 
to dissolve it, the juice of 2 lemons, 1 teacupful of sugar and 
juice in which the apples were baked. Set on the fire and bring 
to boil, then strain over the apples and set on ice until jellied. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

697. WHIPPED CREAM. 

For whipped cream take good, sweet cream, which in summer 
must not be more than twenty-four hours old. Put on ice several 
hours before whipping, and if possible, whip in a bowl standing 



312 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

in cracked ice, as it saves time. Beat with wire whip or Dover 
beater. For sweetening add finest powdered sugar just before 
beating. Whipped cream should be drained; the liquid cream 
forming again at the bottom of dish, should not be used with the 
froth. Extra rich cream may be diluted with rich milk. 

Where very light, frothy cream (syllabub) is desired, the 
cream may be diluted still more, but the froth must then be re- 
moved from top as it forms and piled up in a fine strainer. 

For decorating creams use colored granulated sugar, either 
mixed, or in stripes of varying colors. The sugar is colored by 
rolling a little of it at one time on stiflf paper, on which a few 
drops of vegetable or fruit coloring has been sprinkled. 

Flavoring, such as vanilla essence or Maraschino, should be 
added before beating, but if for any reason it must be added later, 
mix with dissolved gelatin that has begun to set. Lemon rind 
is pounded fine and thoroughly mixed with the other sugar. 

Devonshire Cream (commonly called scalded cream). Put 
fresh (sweet) milk in pan, set on top of another pan filled with 
boiling water, which steams or scalds the milk, bringing the 
cream quickly to the top. Skim off the thick, clotty cream only, 
for use. An excellent substitute for whipped cream. 

698. CHARLOTTE RUSSE, 

Put 2 cupfuls of milk into saucepan, and let come to boil. Beat 
the yolks of 4 eggs and 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, stir into the 
boiling milk, and when thickened set the custard away to cool. 
Soak 3^2 box of gelatin in 1 cupful of warm water. Beat the whites 
of 5 eggs to stiff froth, add 1J4 cupfuls of pulverized sugar. Whip 
2 cupfuls of pure cream, put into the custard; add flavoring to 
the beaten whites of egg and mix with the custard, and last of all 
add the gelatin dissolved, stirring thoroughly. Line the Charlotte 
russe mold with lady fingers or strips of cake, pour the custard 
into it and set into ice chest two or three hours. 

A simpler filling is made by adding to pint of cream beaten 
stiff, 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar. Flavor to suit, as 1 table- 
spoonful cordial, or 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and then beating in 
little by little, }i an oz. of gelatin soaked and dissolved in water. 



DEPARTMENT 11 313 

t 

In lining the^ mold great ingenuity can be displayed, as by 
using strips of iced flat cake, and showing alternately the iced 
and the brown side. The mold should be lined with paper, bot- 
tom and sides, before putting in the cake, and a piece of cake of 
the same size and shape as the bottom, and cut in triangles, may 
be fitted in first. 

699. SPANISH CREAM. 

Dissolve % box of gelatin in little warm water. Put IV^ pints 
milk in double boiler, beat the yolks of 3 eggs with 3/3 cup of 
sugar, add to the milk and boil for few minutes, then add the 
gelatin. Take from the fire and stir in the beaten whites of 4 
eggs, put into a mold, and when cold serve with whipped cream. 

700. RUSSIAN CREAM. 

The Jelly: To 1 package of gelatin add 1 pint of cold water, 
when dissolved add 1 pint of hot water, 2 cups of sugar, and the 
juice of 6 lemons, stir slowly until well dissolved, then strain 
into molds. 

The Cream: Cover 1 package of gelatin with cold water, 
when dissolved add 1 cup of fresh sweet milk, 1 cup of sugar, 
heat to boiling point, stirring frequently. Then set away to cool. 
Whip 1 quart of thick cream until light, beat the whites of 6 
eggs and add both to the mixture. When cool flavor with vanilla. 
Place the jelly in bottom of the molds, and when stiff and cold 
add the cream ; turn out of the molds and serve in slices. 



701. FOOD FOR THE GODS. 

Take 1 pint of pure rich cream whipped stiff with little pow- 
dered sugar and vanilla essence, 1 pint of grated black bread 
(Pumpernickel is best), 1 quart of cooked cherries (or preserved 
strawberries or raspberries). Put alternate layers of bread, 
cherries and whipped cream in glass dish, having layered 
whipped cream on top. Sprinkle the top with powdered sugar. 
Put on ice for half an hour and serve at once. 



314 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

702. FOAM OF ROSES. 

(Good for using up whites of egg.) 

Dissolve % oz. of red gelatin in 1 cup of white wine or cider, 
add 1 cup of raspberry or cherry juice, the juice of 2 lemons, the 
rind of % a lemon, bruised in sugar, y2 cup of sugar. Stir until 
the mass begins to thicken, then mix in the whites^ of 5 eggs 
well beaten, and put in glass dishes. 

By substituting white gelatin for red, and whipped sour or 
sweet cream for cherry juice, and omitting the lemon juice, a 
white foam of roses is made, which may be put below the red. 

703. ROMAN CREAM. 

Blanch and peel 3 ozs. of best sweet almonds and 1 oz. of 
bitter almonds, dry thoroughly and chop quite fine. Boil up 1 pint 
of milk. Put the almonds in copper pan on fire and brown lightly, 
constantly stirring. Add the' almonds and 4 oz. of sugar to the 
milk, keep boiling, stir in the yolks of 4 eggs. As soon as they 
bind, remove quickly from fire and pass through fine sieve. Strain 
into this 1 oz. of gelatin dissolved in little cold water, add 1 
tablespoon orange-flower water and set to cool. Whip li^ gill 
of cream and work lightly into the cold mass. Mix well with 
wooden spoon, and pour into mold. Put on ice. When set, turn 
-out, garnish with preserved fruit. 

704. BAVARIAN VANILLA CREAM. 

Put 2 ozs. of sugar or more, % pint milk and 2 inches of a 
vanilla pod in stewpan and bring to boil slowly. Stir 4 yolks 
of eggs in bowl, gradually pour boiling milk over, constantly stir- 
ring, return to stewpan. Stir over fire until it thickens, take 
out vanilla and pass through fine sieve. Dissolve ^ oz.'of gela- 
tin in % gill water, strain into milk, mix well, let cool and add 
14 pint of whipped cream. Fill into mold, place mold into basin 
and surround with crushed ice. When set, immerse mold in 
warm water, turn cream out on dish, and serve at once. For 
decoration, a neat design may be laid out in preserved fruit or 



DEPARTMENT 11 215 

nuts on the bottom of the mold, before pouring in the cream. Or 
sprinkle with colored, granulated sugar. 

With the cream a white of egg whipped stiff may be added. 
The stick of vanilla may be used the second time. During hot 
weather the quantity of gelatin should be a little larger. 

705. BAVARIAN CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Soak % oz. gelatin in a little cold milk. Mix 1 tablespoonful 
rice-flour with i/^ gill cold milk. Put l^ pound of broken choc- 
olate, 3 ozs. of sugar and a scant quart of milk in stewpan, boil 
gently, stirring until the chocolate is dissolved ; add the rice-flour 
and gelatin, stir till it boils, remove from fire. Beat 6 yolks of 
eggs in a large bowl, add the milk, stir well and return to stew- 
pan; add 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, and stir over fire until 
thick, but do not allow to boil. Strain through fine hair sieve, 
pour into mold ; when set, turn out on cold dish and serve. 

Decoration as in preceding recipe. 

706. BAVARIAN PEACH CREAM. 

The same as Bavarian vanilla cream, adding ly^ gill of peach 
sauce,' well reduced and passed through a fine sieve, before put- 
ting in the gelatin. Decoration: peach kernels, wine-jelly and 
diamonds cut of preserved melon-rind placed in the mold in neat 
design. 

707. JAPANESE TOWER. 

Beat 5 whites of eggs with a pinch of salt to a stiff froth in a 
clean bowl. Work in gently 6 ozs. of powdered sugar and 4 oz. 
of hazelnuts or almonds, chopped extra fine. Put in a forcing- 
bag with plain tube. Make round flat disks, all of different sizes 
on a slightly greased baking tin. Begin at the center of each 
disk and work around in a spiral or coil. Sprinkle the disks with 
a little sugar and bake in slow oven. Take off and let cool when 
done. Place the largest meringue-disk on dish, cover with Bavar- 
ian vanilla cream, put the next largest disk on top, cover, and con- 



316 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

tinue till the smallest meringue has been placed on top. Pour 
over 1 gill of cream whipped stiff, garnish with halves of candied 
cherries or similar fruit. 

708. ICE CREAM SUNDAES. 

To each portion of ice cream (served cone-shape) pour over 
mashed strawberries, raspberries, peaches or grated pineapple or 
use maple syrup and crushed nuts (pecans or hickory nuts). The 
color can be varied a little by squeezing into the syrup and nuts a 
few of the strawberries, raspberries, or peaches. Serve in regular 
ice cream dishes or glasses. One gallon ice cream enough for 33 
persons. Increase or decrease quantity according to number to 
be served. The syrup and nuts add much to the appearance and 
taste of the ice cream. 

709. GOOSEBERRY CREAM. 

Remove the stalks and blossoms from 1 quart of unripe goose- 
berries, put the fruit in saucepan with % pound of best sugar 
and % pint of water, boil gently for half an hour. Rub through 
fine sieve, let cool, put on ice. If necessary; add some sugar. 
Just before serving, w'hip 1 pint of cream and mix with the pulp. 
Serve in fancy glass or silver dish, or in individual sherbet 
glasses, with fancy biscuits or lady fingers. 

710. EGG CREAM. 

Boil 1% pint of milk ; add 4 ozs. of sugar, % oz. of gelatin dis- 
solved in warm milk, and the thin rind of a lemon, and remove 
from fire. Beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, add the strained juice of 1/2 
lemon, and stir into milk. Return to fire and stir until thick. 
Do not boil. Strain and put in wetted mold. Place on ice. Turn 
out when set and serve with some jam or fruit sauce. 

711. ORANGE CREAM. 

Line a jelly-mold with lemon-jelly or wine-jelly, decorate with 
cherries. Add the juice and the finely grated rind of 1 orange, 



DEPARTMENT 11 317 

and a little apricot marmalade to Bavarian Vanilla Cream and fill 
the mold. Put on ice. 

712. CHESTNUT CREAM. 

One pound chestnuts shelled and blanched (whitened). Boil 
until tender. Drain, pound to a powder and press through a sieve. 
Add thick cream enough to moisten, sweetened with 1 cup granu- 
lated sugar. Cook two or three minutes and serve cone-shaped 
on plate when cold, covered with whipped cream and garnished 
with whole or halved boiled chestnuts. 



THE ICE CREAM FREEZER. 

The philosophy of salting ice for freezing lies in the fact that 
salt water requires a lower temperature than fresh water for 
turning solid. The salt melts the ice and the ice takes the heat 
necessary for melting from the contents of the freezer. Great care 
must be taken not to have any salt or salt water spoil the ice 
cream. If the cover of the freezer or mold does not fit perfectly, 
put a large greased paper, greased side up, on the open vessel and 
force the lid down over the paper. The grease will keep the salty 
moisture out. 

713. ICE CREAM. 

Put 1 quart of rich milk in the double boiler. When the water 
in the outer vessel boils, stir in 1 cupful of sugar, and 3 beaten 
eggs. Put in freezer and when partly frozen stir in % pint of 
rich sweet cream, then finish freezing. 

714. ICE CREAM— NO. 2. 

Three quarts of milk, 1 quart of cream, 3 cupfuls of sugar, 
y2, cupful of flour, whites of 6 eggs. Put 1 pint of the milk in 
double boiler an^ scald as above ; mix the flour with some of the 
cold milk and stir into the hot milk, add the sugar and pour the 
mixture into the remainder of the cold milk; stir in the well 
beaten whites of 6 eggs, flavor to taste, and freeze. 



218 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

715. ICE CREAM— NO. 3. 

One quart of rich milk, 7 eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately, 4 cupfuls of sugar, 2 quarts of sweet cream, 6 tea- 
spoonfuls of flavoring. Scald the milk in double boiler^ beat the 
yolks extra light, add the sugar and beat a little longer; then, 
little by little, add the boiling milk, beating continuously; stir 
in the well beaten whites of the eggs, return to the boiler and 
cook until as thick as boiled custard, stirring steadily. Take 
off fire and when quite cold, stir in the cream and flavoring, and 
freeze. 

716. FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

Mash 1 quart of berries or any stewed fruit with a thick syrup 
made from 1 pound of sugar, and add to any one of the above ice 
creams after it is frozen. Remove the paddle, mix in thoroughly, 
then pack in ice and salt for not more than two hours. 



717. CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Make a gallon of ice cream after any of the above recipes. 
Shave two bars of good chocolate in a little milk, sweeten to taste, 
add to the ice cream when partly frozen and then finish freezing. 



718. COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

To 3 quarts of pure cream add 1 pint of good strong coffee 
and 2 pounds of sugar, and freeze. 

719. BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Peel 6 or 8 ripe bananas and rub through sieve into a bowl, 
add juice of 2 lemons, 1 small glass of Curacoa or brandy and 1 
pint of custard. Mix well and stir in i^ pu^t of whipped cream. 
Freeze. 

The custard is made as follows : Scald 1 pint of milk, add y^ 
pound of sugar, and when dissolved, stir the mixture gradually 
into the beaten yolks of 6 eggs. Return to same saucepan, put on 



DEPARTMENT 11 219 

fire and stir till thick, but do not let boil. Pass through a sieve 
and flavor as desired. 



720. CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Put 4 ozs. of loaf sugar into iron frying pan, add few drops of 
water and stir over fire until it begins to smoke. Meanwhile 
scald 1 quart of milk and stir into the burnt sugar ; boil up again, 
strain, add 6 ozs. of good confectioners' sugar and let cool. When 
cool stir in 1 pint of cream and vanilla flavor. Whip ^ pint of 
cream and add also. Freeze, stirring occasionally to get perfectly 
even. 

If to be molded, pack into the molds as soon as set, wrap 
molds in paper, repack in crushed ice and salt. After two hours 
unwrap, wipe the molds, dip in hot water, open and turn out on 
cold dishes. 



721. CHAUDFROID ICE CREAM. 

(sho-f ro-H = liot and cold.) 

Take the whites of 6 eggs and 1 teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar. Beat them thoroughly stiff. Lay a slice of pound cake 
upon a small plate and on this place the ice cream in the shape 
of a cone or inverted cup. Now take the beaten eggs and sugar, 
put in a paper tube with a small hole at the bottom and squeeze 
the mixture out of the tube over the ice cream until completely 
covered; then cover with powdered sugar and place in a quick 
oven for half a minute. When served it will be a delicate brown. 
Each individual portion is prepared and served separately. 

This delicious dish, if made according to directions, will not 
only be a welcome addition to the meal, but will prove a unique 
surprise. 

722. BIRD'S NEST ICE CREAM. 

Make a nest of spun sugar, which can be procured from the 
confectioner's and place inside 3 or 4 eggs molded from chocolate 
or strawberry ice cream. 



230 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

723. NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

Use same materials as for Ice Cream No. 3, omitting flavor- 
ing. When cream is ready for freezing, flavor 1/3 with vanilla 
and put in brick form, filling one-third. Pack in ice. Then mix 
% of the remaining cream with melted chocolate diluted with a 
little milk or cream, put in the brick form and pack again in ice. 
Flavor the remaining cream with pistachio nuts (Oriental nuts) 
pounded to smooth paste with a little cream, and color a light 
green, as with a little spinach. Put in the brick form, seal with 
butter if necessary and pack in ice and salt for several hours, 

724. TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Cut into small cubes (dice shape) candied fruits, soak one 
hour in sherry, Kirsch or maraschino, drain and stir into frozen 
vanilla cream in the freezer. Then turn the freezer ten minutes 
longer, turn the mass into a mold and pack in ice and salt until 
wanted. 

725. NESSELRODE ICE PUDDING. 

Boil 1 pound of shelled chestnuts in 3 pints of milk until soft ; 
rub through a colander, add % pound of sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla extract, 3 yolks of egg and 3 pints of cream. Stir over 
moderate fire until creamy, rub through fine sieve, stir until cool 
and put in freezer. When thoroughly cold and stiif, work in 4 
ozs. each of currants, stoned raisins and shredded pineapple, mois- 
tened with 1 glass of Maraschino (Dalmatian cherry cordial). Re- 
turn to freezer, pack in ice and freeze two hours. Serve with cold 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 

726. PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE. 

A delicious dessert. Pare and grate endugh pineapple to 
make 1 pint ; mix well with 1 pound granulated sugar ; add juice 
of 1 lemon. Soak i^ box of gelatine in % glass of cold water 
until soft, then set over kettle of hot water. Beat the yolks 
of 3 eggs and stir into fruit. When the gelatine is melted add 
the fruit. Pour all into suitable dish and set in pan of cracked 



DEPARTMENT 11 331 

ice. Stir gently until thick, then stir in 1 pint of cream whipped. 
Turn into mold with cover. Put thin cloth over top of mold, 
fit cover on tight, and pack in cracked ice and rock salt. In two 
hours serve. The outside should be frozen a little but not the 
center. 

727. EASTER PUNCH. 

Fill wide-mouthed, fancy glass with equal parts of strawberry, 
lemon and creme de menthe ice, so as to show the three colors on 
top. 

728. PEACH SURPRISE. 

Make syrup by boiling toegther for five minutes, 1 quart of 
water and 3 cups of sugar. When cool, add the juice of 1 lemon 
and 1 quart of peaches, sliced thin. Freeze till mushy, then add 
well beaten whites of 3 eggs and freeze till stiff. 



729. PEACH ICE. 

Boil 1 pound sugar in 1 pint water five minutes. When cool 
add 2 pounds peaches, peeled, halved and rubbed through sieve, 
and freeze. If desired, add just before freezing, 1 wine glass of 
maraschino (Dalmatian cherry cordial), or 1 pint of cream. 



730. ORANGE ICE. 

To 3 pints of water add % the quantity of sugar and boil 
half an hour, then set away to cool. When cold or luke warm, 
add strained juice of 20 oranges and 2 lemons and freeze in ice 
cream freezer. 

731. MELON ICE. 

Cut 1 ripe musk melon in two, remove seeds, pare the rind 
with the green part. Cut yellow part up in small pieces. Boil 
1 pound of sugar in 1 pint water to a syrup, remove the scum, 
put the melon in and boil five minutes. Take fruit out and rub 
through fine sieve. Add equal quantity of syrup, strained juice 



233 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

of 2 lemons, 1 tablespoonful orange flower water and 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla essence. Simple, inexpensive and easily made. 
Just before freezing 1 gill of cream may be stirred in. 

732. LEMON ICE. 

Dissolve 1 pound sugar in 1 quart of boiling water, add the 
juice of 4 lemons and let cool. Just before freezing add the beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Considered a delicacy if prepared properly. 

733. PARFAIT (French). 

Beat yolks of 8 eggs until light; then add 1 cupful syrup, 
stir over slow fire until the spoon gets a thick coating. Pour into 
bowl, add 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, and beat with wire whip 
until cold. Stir in 1 pint cream whipped stiff, taking care that 
no liquid cream goes in, pour into mold, pack in salted ice and 
take out after four hours. Directions should be followed closely. 

With the French this is the favorite method of making ice 
cream, making a delicate, spongy cream. Instead of vanilla 
flavoring 1 tablespoonful of Curacao or other cordial may be used, 
or. 3 tablespoonfuls of chocolate melted and mixed with cream, 
or maple syrup may be used instead of plain syrup, omitting all 
other flavorings. Just before putting the vanilla parfait in the 
mold candied fruits or cooked chestnuts, cut in dice and rolled 
in powdered sugar may be stirred in quickly, or the juice of fruits 
mixed with enough powdered sugar to have the same consistency 
as the cream. 

734. MOUSSE (French). 

This is another French method of making ice cream, light 
and fluffy like "moss." Soak y^ box of gelatine in 1 cup of cold 
water one hour, then put on stove to get heated. Whip 1 pint 
of cream, add gelatine, a good % cup of powdered sugar and 
any flavoring, also any finely chopped fruit desired ; work from 
bottom up until it begins to stiffen, pour into mold which has 
been lying in cold water, cover with a greased sheet of writing 
paper, put on cover, trim away paper and pack in salted ice for 
one hour. 



DEPARTMENT 11 323 

735. MAPLE MOUSSE. 

Whip 4 eggs very light and add gradually, constantly beating, 
1 cup of well warmed, but not hot, maple syrup. Put on fire in 
double boiler and stir until it resembles rich cream. Set aside 
and when nearly cold add 1 pint of rich cream, whipped light, 
taking care not to take any liquid cream. Pack in salted ice for 
five hours. Do not stir. 

736. RHUBARB SHERBET. 

Cook 2 pounds of rhubarb cut in pieces, wtith the juice and 
grated rind of 1 lemon, in about 1 tablesponful of water until 
tender. Sweeten to taste, let cool, strain and add 1 pint of 
claret and 2 tablespoonfuls of rum or brandy. Freeze to a mush, 
and when serving, strew with finely chopped candied fruits, such 
as cherries and pineapple. 

737. COFFEE AND CREAM SHERBET. 

Make strong coffee from about 8 tablespoonfuls of grounds. 
Heat % pint of milk and 6 ozs. of sugar in a stewpan, with a 
piece of vanilla, but do not let boil. Add the hot coffee, let cool 
and stir in % pint of cream. Take out vanilla and freeze to a 
creamy mass, but still liquid. Serve with powdered sugar. 

738. PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Pare 3 or 4 pineapples, careful to remove all specks, grate 
fine, and for every pineapple allow 1 pint of water, large cupful 
of sugar and the juice of 1 lemon. Boil the sugar and water until 
clear, remove from stove, add the pinapple, let stand until cold, 
strain and freeze. Serve in sherbet cups, with 1 spoonful of 
whipped cream on each. 

739. STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Crush 2 quarts ripe strawberries, add 1 quart water and juice 
of 2 lemons, set away for two or three hours, strain, add 2 pounds 



224 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

sugar, stir until dissolved, strain again and serve either ice cold, 
or put in a freezer, freeze to mush, and serve in sherbet glasses. 

740. ORANGE SHERBET. 

Squeeze and strain juice of 1 dozen large oranges and 1 lemon. 
In 1 quart of water put 3 cupfuls of sugar, set on stove, cook 
until clear. Remove scum, if any, and strain through muslin. 
When cold add the fruit juice and freeze. When partly frozen 
add the white of 1 egg beaten to a stiff froth and finish freezing. 

741. MILK SHERBET. 

Mix 1 cup of sugar and juice of 2 lemons with 1 quart of milk, 
freeze to mush in freezer and serve in sherbet glasses. 

742. FRUIT SHERBET. 

Boil 2 cups of sugar in 1 quart water twenty minutes, add 1 
pint of raspberry or strawberry, juice, cool, strain and freeze 
to mush. Instead of fruits named, 1 cup each of grated pine- 
apple and orange juice and % cup of lemon juice may be used. 

743. COFFEE FRAPPE. 

Boil 1 cupful of sugar in 1 pint of water five minutes, then 
stir in 1 pint of strong coffee, strain- carefully and set away to 
■cool. When cold, add beaten whites of 2 eggs. About one hour 
before serving, put the mixture in freezer and freeze stiff, which 
will take about quarter of an hour. Then remove paddles and 
pack freezer in ice and salt until ready to serve. Serve in Frappe 
glasses with spoonful of whipped cream on top of each. 

744. PINEAPPLE FRAPPE. 

Add i pint Appolliiiaris to juice from 1 can pineapple. Sweeten 
more than ordinarily sweet. Chop y^ the pineapple fine and put- 
through the liquid when half frozen. Freeze partially and serve. 




Department 12. 

THE term "cereal" is derived from the Latin word "cerealis," which means 
"pertaining to Ceres," the Roman deity of agriculture. Grasses cultivated 
for their edible grains are called cereals ; also the grains and the foods 
prepared from them. Being easily digested, a cereal is considered wholesome 
and a good appetizer with which to commence the breakfast, but because of 
the large percentage of starch and proteids contained in most of them they 
are fattening, and should, as a rule, be eaten sparingly by fleshy people. Serve 
one-half milk and one-half cream, or all cream. Watered or adulterated milk 
is injurious and should not be used. Cereals should be thoroughly cooked. 

745. BOILED RICE. 

Rice should be picked over carefully, washed in warm water, 
rubbing between the hands and rinsing in several cold waters. 
Let stand in cold water for one hour. Drain perfectly dry and 
drop little by little into a large quantity of boiling water. Boil 
twenty minutes, drain and put on warm part of stove for a few 
minutes, covered with one thickness of napkin. Do not stir while 
cooking. Vessel large enough to allow for swelling. 

The rice may be served especially in soups or as a garnish ; or, 
milk-rice may be made of it by adding 1 pint of hot milk for 
every V^ pint of raw rice, and a little salt, boiling (in double 
boiler) a little longer, stirring from the bottom occasionally. 
Dish up in deep dish and pour over it some melted butter, and 
sprinkle thickly with a mixture of ground cinnamon and sugar. 
Milk rice goes well with liver and bacon. 

Plain boiled rice is good with tomato sauce. 



325 



226 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

746. RICE A LA NAGASAKI (JAPANESE). 

Place 6 ozs. of rice in double boiler, with 1 pint of juice from 
can of tomatoes, 1 cup of broth or hot water. Season with ^ 
teaspoonful salt and 3 saltspoonfuls of pepper. 

Boil thirty-five minutes, add 3 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese 
with 1 of butter. 

Beat all together a few minutes, then put in bakmg dish, cover 
with bread crumbs, dot with pieces of butter and bake twelve 
minutes. 

747. RICE, PIEDMONTESE STYLE. 

Mix fried, finely chopped onions, some grated Parmesan cheese 
and a little red pepper into hot boiled rice. Make hollow in center 
of dish of hot mashed potatoes, fill hollow with rice and serve. 

An excellent breakfast or supper dish. 

748. RICE, QUEEN'S STYLE. 

Mix finely chopped, hard boiled white of egg, some of white 
part of cooked haddock (or other white fish) finely shredded, 
some grated cheese and seasoning into boiled or stewed rice. 
Dish in form of pyramid on flat dish and brown in quick oven. 

A nice breakfast or supper dish. 

749. HUNGARIAN RICE. 

Put ^ pound best rice, (picked, but not washed) in covered 
stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter, 14 teaspoonful of paprika (Hun- 
garian pepper), and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix well. Place 
covered in hot- oven for ten minutes, take out, add small handful 
of mushrooms cut into cubes (dice shaped), and 3 pints of chicken 
or mutton broth ; cook slowly one to two hours in double boiler. 
Any herbs put in, must be removed before serving. 

750. RICE AND HAM. 

Cook 4 ozs. of rice in double boiler, without stirring, till 
tender. Drain and cool. Place the large leaves of lettuce on a 
cold dish, place alternate layers of finely minced ham and rice 



DEPARTMENT 13 327 

on top, taking care not to break any more rice grains than can 
be helped ; garnish with the heart leaves of lettuce. Serve cold. 
A nice breakfast dish. 

751. RICE AND HAM CROQUETTES. 

Mix well equal quantities of cold boiled or fried ham, chop- 
ped fine, and cooked rice. For every pint of the mixture, add 3 
well beaten eggs ; mix thoroughly and form into small croquettes, 
then fry in hot drippings or lard to a nice brown and serve with 
tomato sauce. 

752. RICE PUFFS. 

Put into bowl 1 pint of cold boiled rice, 1 cup of fresh milk, 3 
well beaten eggs, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful 
of baking powder, 1 teasponful of sugar, a pinch of salt, and 
enough flour to make a batter. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat 
and fry until brown. Drain on napkin and dust with powdered 
sugar. 

753. RICE OMELET. 

Beat 1 cup milk with ^ cup boiled rice to a smooth paste 
and add 2 well beaten eggs. Pepper and salt to taste. Fry brown 
on both sides, cover with sugar, sifted, and serve. 

754. RICE, ITALIAN STYLE (RISOTTO). 

Boil Italian rice until tender, but not soft, drain in colander, 
put in colander in warm place on range for few minutes to let 
the steam escape, return to pot on fire and mix in some grated 
cheese, Parmesan and Swiss, half and half, dish, and pour over it 
sauce made as follows : Rub the bottom of saucepan with piece 
of garlic, put in 1 tablespoonful of butter and brown in it 1 small 
chopped onion. Then add 1/4 cup of the water in which the rice 
was boiled, and 1 cup of good stock or 1 teaspoonful extract of 
beef, 2 or 3 chopped fresh mushrooms, and let simmer five min- 
utes. 

The sauce is also excellent for Polenta (which see). Macaroni, 
Spaghetti, Nudels and buckwheat mush. 



328 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

755. OATMEAL MUSH. 

Put 1 quart boiling water in inner ^vessel of double boiler, 
place on fire, without outer vessel, drop into it gradually 1 cup 
of oatmeal and 1 teaspoonful of salt ; boil five minutes. Pour into 
outer vessel the proper amount of boiling water strongly salted, 
bring to boil, place other vessel inside and cook from three to 
five hours. Oatmeal mush should be cooked long enough to 
break the grains, and thin enough to pour. It is more digestible 
that way. When cooled should be of jelly-like consistency. 
Serve with sugar and cream, or, for a change, with a tart jelly, 
apple sauce, or baked apples. 

If to be fried (see cornmeal mush), allow the oatmeal mush to 
steam in double boiler until of the proper consistency for cutting 
in slices when cold. 

756. CORNMEAL MUSH. 

Make paste of 1 cup cornmeal and 1 teaspoonful salt in a little 
cold water, put into double boiler, pour on 2 pints boiling water 
and boil from four to five hours, adding boiling water as neces- 
sary. 

Fried mush is an excellent breakfast dish. Let mush get cold 
and firm in square tin, cut in slices ^ inch thick, dip in beaten 
egg, roll in crumbs and fry to nice brown in hot fat. Any other 
mush may be fried in same way. 

Graham, buckwheat, gluten and rye mush are cooked like 
cornmeal mush, but require less cooking. Gluten mush does not 
thicken. 

757. POLENTA. 

Cut in slices ^ inch thick well-cooked cornmeal mush, and 
pour over the sauce described under heading "Risotto." 

. 758. HASTY PUDDING. 

Stir together 2 cups cornmeal, 2 teaspoons flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt and 2 cups milk. When smooth, stir in a little at a time, 4 
cups of boiling water, and boil 30 minutes, stirring frequently. 



DEPARTMENT 12 - 239 

759. FARINA. 

iFarina is a preparation of white corn, a little coarser than 
meal. Cook 1 cup of farina in 4 cups of boiling water with ^ 
saltspoonful of salt one hour in double boiler or twenty minutes 
in a saucepan. Serve with sugar and cream or good rich milk. 

760. CRACKED WHEAT. 

Cracked wheat requires careful picking over and should be 
cooked in double boiler for two hours and a half, allowing 3 
cups of boiling water and 1 teaspoonful of salt for 1 cup of meal. 
Serve with sugar and cream or milk; cream preferred. 

761. WHEAT GERM. 

Put 1 cup of wheat germ in 3 cups of boiling water with 1 
teaspoonful of salt in double boiler and cook one hour. Serve 
with sugar and cream or milk. 



762. HULLED CORN, 

Soak the corn over night, drain and put on fire in boiling 
water with cheese-cloth bag containing clean wood ashes (half 
as much as com). When the hulls commence to come off, remove 
bag and pour off the lye. Remove hulls by rubbing corn well 
in cold water. Rinse and put to boil again. Cook until tender, 
changing water twice to get rid of the taste of lye. Serve like 
mush with milk. 

763, HOMINY. 

Hominy is the corn, hulled, broken and partly boiled. Prac- 
tically prepared the same as hulled corn but best cooked the same 
as oatmeal, allowing 1 quart of boiliiig water for ^ cup of meal. 
Serve with milk for breakfast, or with hard sauce for dessert. 
Palatable and nutritious when cooked properly. 



330 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

764. BAKED HOMINY. 

Take 3 cupfuls of cold boiled hominy, add 3 spoonfuls of 
melted butter, 4 well beaten eggs and IJ^ cupfuls of fresh, sweet 
milk, salt to taste, stir together, pour into buttered pan and bake 
thirty minutes. Serve with meat course. 

765. HOMINY CROQUETTES. 

Mix 2 cupfuls of cold boiled hominy, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful 
melted butter, a little salt, and 1 teaspoonful of flour ; fry in small 
spoonfuls in hot lard. Serve with maple syrup, honey, or melted 
sugar. 

766. BAKED NOODLES. 

Boil in lightly salted water until soft, drain well and put 
in saucepan with enough cold milk to cover. Add butter and 
grated cheese, season with nutmeg and pepper. Cook several 
minutes, shaking and tossing, pile up in center of shallow baking- 
dish, cover with fine crumbs, put bits of butter here and there. 

767-8. SPAGHETTI WITH MEAT. 

(Spaghetti from Italian Spago=small rope.) 
Wash about 2 lbs. of lean beef, veal, lamb or spring chicken. 
Separate from bulb of garlic several cloves or smaller bulbs and 
clean. Make 3 or 4 incisions in the meat and into each place one 
sprig of parsley. Use garlic or pieces of onion. . Salt, and fry in 
J^ cup lard. When done, add 1 quart canned or fresh tomatoes 
and j^ pint imported tomato sauce. Cook from 30 to 30 minutes, 
stirring occasionally to keep from burning. Add salt and pepper 
to taste. When the tomatoes are nearly cooked, put into large 
kettle of boiling water 3 lbs. imported Italian spaghetti . and boil 
15 to 30 minutes. Taste occasionally and when the raw flavor 
has left it lift out (ladle or strainer )and place in large deep plat- 
ter. Grate over a piece of Roman cheese size of hen's egg. Put 
the meat^ on platter and slice. Pour the tomato sauce over 
spaghetti and mix well. Let stand about 5 minutes and serve in 
soup plates. About 1 hour required to prepare. Sufficient for six 
or eight persons ; or reduce or increase quantities to suit. 



DEPARTMENT 13 231 

769. LEFT-OVER MACARONI. 

Left-over boiled macaroni, spaghetti or noodles, if not allowed 
to stand too long, can be utilized to make delicious scallops. Fry 
a dish of cold sliced mutton in alternate layers with cooked maca- 
roni or noodles, with oyster or tomato sauce, or a scallop of duck, 
sliced apple, macaroni and brown gravy. Cover with crumbs 
mixed with grated cheese and bake to a nice brown. 

770. MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

Break into lightly salted boiling water 1 package of macaroni. 
Cook about forty-five minutes and drain. Melt in saucepan lYs 
tablespoonfuls of butter and ^ pound each of grated Swiss and 
Parmesan cheese. Add V2 cup of milk, season with ^ teaspoon 
ground mace (powdered outer hull of nutmeg) and a little 
pepper. Stir smooth over slow fire, add the macaroni, stir a few 
minutes. Pour into baking-dish, cover with bread crumbs, dot 
with butter and bake to brown in hot oven, from ten to fifteen 
minutes. If well cooked, the macaroni will be stringy. 

771. CREAMED MACARONI. 

Boil % package of macaroni until tender, in slightly salted 
water. When done, drain and cut into 2 inch lengths and put in 
pudding dish; pour over drawn butter sauce, and cover the top 
with rolled cracker, and bake for half an hour. 

772. MACARONI AND BACON. 

A breakfast dish. Cook 4 ozs. of macaroni, broken into small 
pieces, five minutes in boiling water slightly salted. Drain and 
cool. Bring Yz pint of stock to boil, skim, add the macaroni and 
cook till tender. Be careful not to get the macaroni too soft; 
the shape must be kept. Cut 4 ozs. of streaky bacon into small 
dice and fry in saucepan. Add 1 oz. of butter and when melted 
add the macaroni ; season with salt, pepper and grate of nutmeg, 
and cook ten minutes longer, carefully stirring. When nice and 
browM, serve in hot dish. 



332 



FANCY EQG DISHES. 




Copyright, 1908, by Wra. H. Lee. 




Department 13. 



OWING to the albumen and fat in eggs, they are very nutritious and 
beneficial to the system, and there is hardly any more concentrated form 
of nutriment ; that is fresh eggs, not eggs that have passed through a 
chemical process or those impregnated with disease germs. The shell of an 
egg is exceedingly porous and easily penetrated by microbes. An egg older 
than three days should never be given to the sick. A well-developed, new- 
laid egg will sink in water, but if stale or not well-iilled, the eggs will float. 

Another test : Touch the tongue to each end of the egg. The small end 
will be cold and the large end warm, if sound and fresh. See Dept. No. 25. 



773. BOILED EGGS. 

Drop the eggs carefully into saucepan of boiling water. For 
soft eggs, boil three to four minutes; for medium, four and a 
half to five minutes ; for hard, from ten to twenty minutes, W'hen 
done, take out and put in cold water for a few moments. This 
will cause the shells to come off readily. 

If eggs are put on the fire in cold water and taken off, as sooa 
as the water boils, will be found cooked medium soft. 



333 



234 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

774. POACHED EGGS IN TOMATO SAUCE. 

Bring 1 pint of tomato sauce to boil, skim if necessary, break 
in carefully 3 or 4 eggs. Cook till the whites are set, basting 
well with the sauce. Lift out carefully with a skimmer, dish 
neatly on slices of toast trimmed to size. Pour the sauce over 
and serve hot. 



775. SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Heat 1 tablespoonful of butter in frying-pan and pour in 
4 eggs seasoned with salt and pepper and lightly beaten together 
with a little milk. Begin immediately to scrape the settling egg 
from the bottom with a spoon. Collect the coagulated mass at 
one side of pan, tilting the vessel so as to have the liquid egg 
run to the lower side, and withdrawing the higher side from the 
fire more and more. When the egg is not quite coagulated re- 
move from fire and serve immediately. Scrambled egg must be 
like jelly, set but not hard, moist but not running. 



776. TURKISH SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat well 6 or 8 eggs with pepper, salt and 1 teaspoonful of 
parsley. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir the eggs in. 
When set, arrange the scrambled egg as a border on a round hot 
dish, put in the center some chicken livers, finely sliced and 
lightly fried in butter with a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley 
and onion. Pour hot tomato sauce around the livers, and serve 
hot. 

777. SHIRRED EGG. 

Break 1 egg into buttered saucer, sprinkle a little salt on the 
wTiite, n6t on the yolk and bake in the oven, basting frequently 
with hot butter. As soon as the surface of the egg appears 
glazed, take out of the oven and cook, if necessary, a minute 
longer, on top of the range. Two or more eggs may be broken 
into a large saucer or soup plate. 



DEPARTMENT 13 235 

778. FRIED EGGS. 

Put enough fat in frying-pan to nearly cover the eggs when 
frying, break each egg separately in saucer, then slip into hot fat. 
Do not turn the eggs over, but baste the hot fat over the eggs. To 
give a nice round shape, put muffin rings in the frying-pan and 
drop the eggs in. The rings can be lifted out with a fork as soon 
as the white is partly cooked. 

Fried eggs have the appearance of poached eggs and will 
not get too hard if a tablespoonful of cold water is put in the 
pan while frying, and the pan covered. 

779. POACHED EGGS. 

Have enough boiling hot water in a pan to cover the eggs, but 
do not let boil while putting in the eggs, as it will render the 
whites ragged and broken; break each egg separately, and slip 
carefully into water, and when the white begins to set, bring to 
boil and begin to dip off water until tops are bare ; boil until the 
white is firm, take up carefully, put small lump of butter, a little 
salt, and one shake of pepper on each egg, and serve. 

To make a poached egg round, put boiling water in deep 
saucepan into whirling motion by stirring round and round with 
a spoon, and drop the egg in the center of the eddy. 

780. FANCY EGGS ON TOAST. 

Boil 6 good fresh eggs and prepare 6 squares of toast. After 
eggs have cooked twenty minutes, chop white part into small 
pieces and rub yolks through a sieve. Boil 1 cup milk, add 1 
piece of butter rubbed into 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. Then 
add the chopped white of eggs and season with pepper and salt. 
Cover toast with the same, sprinkle yolks over top and set on 
hot platter and place in oven about one minute before servinsr. 

781. EGGS A LA RUSSE. 

Boil eggs hard and dye different colors. Cut off one end of 
each egg as evenly as possible, remove and separate the white 



236 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

from the yolk and chop extra fine. Then cover the bottom of 
the shells with the white of the eggs, fill center with caviare 
(roe of sturgeon) and cover with another layer of the white. 
Build up the center with the yolk, then make a ring of currant 
jelly around it, and between the jelly and the shells, an outer 
ring of the white. Serve each egg in the center of saucer of 
cracked ice and garnish with. parsley. 

782. STUFFED EGGS. 

Cut peeled hardboiled eggs in half, lengthwise, chop or bruise 
the yolks fine with good cold meat, chicken, veal etc., or with half 
bread soaked in milk and half chopped onion, or celery, parsley, 
mushrooms or olives, or with grated cheese and a little butter. 
Fill the whites with the mixture, press the halves together, roll 
twice in beaten egg and crumbs, and put in boiling lard long 
enough to color. Drain carefully. 

Excellent for picnics or the lunch-box. 

783. PICKLED EGGS. 

Boil hard 18 fresh eggs, shell and place in a small stoneware 
crock. Boil 1 quart of good vinegar with % teaspoonful of black 
pepper and the same quantities of ginger and allspice ten minutes, 
strain and pour over the eggs. After the vinegar has grown 
cold, tie the crock up tightly with strong, clean paper and let 
stand three or four weeks. 

Excellent for lunch with bread and butter. 

784. EGG CUTLETS. 

Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter in a pan and cream with 1 henp- 
ing tablespoonful of flour. Add gradually % cupful of milk and 
stir until thick. Remove from the fire and add 3 or 3 chopped, 
hard-boiled eggs, one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and 
onion mixed, add salt and peper to taste. Mix well, form mto 
cutlets, turn in beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs, and fry to a 
light brown in deep fat. 



DEPARTMENT 13 2311 

785. FANCY EGGS. 

Eggs can be served in many different styles, a few of which 
have been selected. 

Eggs Benedictine — Fried tomatoes, fried ham, poached eggs, 
HoUandaise and tomato sauce. 

Eggs Blanchard — English muffin, fried ham, poached egg. 
Sauce Colbert. 

Eggs St. Clair — Toast, medium boiled eggs, covered with 
tongue, chicken and truffles (in Julienne slices) boiled up in 
sauce piquante. 

Eggs Isabelle — Toast, boiled bottom of artichoke, chopped 
preserved red peppers, poached egg, HoUandaise sauce. 

Eggs Florentine — Spinach chopped very fine, poached egg, 
covered with cream sauce, baked light brown. 

Eggs Mornay — Poached egg on toast, cream sauce, sprinkle 
with Parmesan cheese, bake light brown. 

Eggs Grand Pacific — Poached egg on toast, with chicken liver 
and mushrooms ; brown sauce. 

786. EGGS BAKED IN POTATO CASES. 

Cook sufficient potatoes ; mash the evening before needed ; 
season same as for table. Flour the molding board, pull potato 
out into a thick cake (3 cups potato will make 5 or 6 cases), cut 
with cake cutter and lay on buttered tin; with fingers press a 
hollow in each cake, forming the case. This can be done while 
potato is warm at night. Next morning brush the potato cases 
with milk and place in oven to brown. When hot and nearly 
brown enough remove from the oven and drop one egg into each 
case with dash of pepper and bit of butter on each egg. Bake 
until egg is set; lift with cake turner and place on hot platter. 
Garnish with parsley or celery tips. For breakfast or luncheon. 

787. OMELET. 
Break 3 or 4 eggs into basin, add tablespoonful rich milk, 
beat with fork four minutes ; add teaspoonful powdered sugar 
and pinch of salt. Melt 1 scant oz. of butter in glazed pan, per- 
fectly clean, when hot, but not too hot, pour on the eggs, and 
stir with spoon over brisk fire until it begins to set. Then shake 



238 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

pan vigorously, and fold the cake^ over, turning from the handle. 
This is easy with a little practice. Let the under side fry a golden 
brown, turn over on hot dish, dredge with powdered sugar, 
lightly burn the sugar in two, or three places with red hot poker 
or iron and serve at once. 

It requires some judgment and skill to make and serve a 
perfect omelet. Before folding over, some chopped ham or other 
meat, jam or grated cheese, or fruit sauce, such as apple, peach, 
mushroom or tomato, may be spread on one half of the omelet. 

Instead of sugar, parsley may be sprinkled on the omelet 
when done. Or the chopped parsley can be mixed in with the 
eggs, and no sugar used. When chopped parsley, chives, chervil 
and tarragon are mixed with the eggs, the omelet is called "Aux 
Fines Herbes," and is served with a little maitre d'hote! butter 
(See Sauces, Dept. 7) rubbed on top. 

788. PORTUGUESE OMELET. 

Beat lightly 5 eggs, whites and yolks separate. Stir together, 
and pour into hot buttered pan. Have ready in another pan, 4 
slices bacon cut into square bits and fried brown. Add a chopped 
fresh tomato, small onion cut into pieces, % dozen chopped fresh 
mushrooms peeled and washed, and a small pepper from which 
the seeds have been taken, chopped. Heat, then pour over the 
omelet, and when done on the under side, fold over and set in 
oven until thoroughly cooked. Serve on hot dish. 

789. HERB OMELET. 

Beat 2 eggs thoroughly and stir in 1 cupful of milk, two of 
fine, dry bread crumbs, 1 finely minced slice of onion, 1 table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, i^ teaspoonful of marjoram, 1 table- 
spoonful of melted butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Bake in 
a moderate oven to a light brown and serve on a heated dish, 
garnished with parsley or watercresses. 

790. OYSTER OMELET. 

Melt in saucepan a lump of butter the size of an egg and work 
in 1 small tablespoonful of flour. Do not brown. Add 1 cup of 



DEPARTMENT 13 239 

boiling water and stir until smooth. Put in 1 dozen medium 
sized oysters well drained and set back on stove. Make omelet 
of 4 eggs, and when it begins to set, pour oyster mixture over one 
half of the omelet, fold the other half over, set in oven for five 
minutes, and serve immediately. 

791. INDIVIDUAL HAM OMELETS. 

Chop scraps of ham, either fried or boiled, fine. Beat 6 eggs 
separately — the whites extra stiff — then put together and stir 
lightly. Have a large griddle or frying pan moderately hot, 
grease with butter and put on the beaten egg in spoonfuls, 
sprinkle with the chopped ham and when well browned, which 
will be in a very short time, take pancake turner and fold over 
one half then set in the oven for two or three minutes and serve 
at once. Nice for breakfast or luncheon. 

792. OMELET SOUFFLE (FRENCH). 

Beat well together 4 yolks of eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of pul- 
verized sugar, 1 teaspoonful of rice flour, and flavor with vanilla, 
orange flower water, or lemon rind. Beat stifif the whites, mix 
lightly with the yolks, and pour into frying pan in which 2 ozs. 
of butter are bubbling. Cook gently until the mixture begins 
to set, then turn over edges on opposite sides, slip onto a buttered 
silver dish or glazed pudding-dish, bake from twelve to fifteen 
minutes in moderate oven, sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
serve immediately. 

793. RUM OMELET. 

Beat the yolk of 6 eggs with 6 tablespoonfuls of milk ; when 
well beaten add the white beaten stiff, mix well together ;• heat a 
lump of butter the size of an egg in the frying pan, and pour in 
the eggs ; when browned on the under side, set in oven for five 
minutes ; double, as taken from the pan, cover with pulverized 
sugar and pour over all gill of best Jamaica rum, ignite, put on 
the table burning and baste with the rum until burned out. 



240 ' DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Care must be taken, however, if a match is used, to prevent 
the taste of sulphur. A piece of shaving or paper is safer to 
use. 

794. FRENCH PANCAKE. 

Beat smooth 6 eggs, 1 oz. of melted butter, 1 oz. of sugar, 

1 pint of sifted flour and 1 cup of milk. Have ready 2 or more 
small frying pans, lightly greased, hot, pour large spoonful in 
each pan and let the batter spread evenly by tipping the pan. 
Turn over as soon as the under side is light brown. When both 
sides are light brown, spread jelly on top, roll up, dust with 
pulverized sugar, arrange neatly on platter and serve hot. Have 
soft butter or lard on the stove for quickly putting 1 teaspoonful 
in the pan when needed. 

795. FRENCH PANCAKE— NO. 2. 

Beat 2 eggs thoroughly, add 2 ozs. of creamed butter, stir in 

2 ozs. each, of powdered sugar and flour, and when well mixed, 
add % pint of milk. Stir five minutes, pour on buttered plates 
and bake in hot oven twenty minutes. Sift powdered sugar on 
each cake and serve with a section of lemon on top. Or, the 
cakes may be piled up on one dish with layers of jam between, 
and the top cake sprinkled with sugar. 

796. GREEN PEA PANCAKE. 

Boil 1 pint of the best green peas, mash while hot and work 
in 1 tablespoonful of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat 
2 eggs, add to the peas, stir in 1 cup of milk and 5 tablespoonfuls 
of prepared flour. Whip to a smooth batter and fry on hot 
griddle. 

797. SWISS EGGS. 

Spread 3 ozs. of fresh, good butter on bottom of a baking 
dish, put on layer of grated cheese, and on the cheese break 8- 
eggs, but avoid breaking^ the yolks. Season with a little salt and 
red pepper, pour on cream, top with 2 ozs. of grated cheese and 
bake i/4 hour or more in a moderate oven. 



DEPARTMENT 13 341 

798. CURRIED EGGS. 

Fry 3 sliced onions in butter to golden brown, add 1 pint of 
good stock and 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, and stew onions 
tender. Then add 1 cup of cream thickened with arrowtoot or 
rice flour, let simmer a few minutes. Cut 8 or 10 hot hard- 
boiled eggs in halves, arrange in deep dish, pour the sauce over 
and serve. 

799. SNOW EGGS. 

Heat 1 pint of milk, sweetened and flavored with vanilla or 
orange flower water, with the rind of % lemon. Beat stiff the 
whites of 5 eggs, and when the milk is at the boiling point, take 
out lemon rind, and put in beaten white of egg by the table- 
spoonful. Turn over in the milk, and when set, take out and 
place in deep dish. Beat the yolk lightly, stir into the milk 
which must not come to boil the second time, stir until of the 
consistency of cream and pour around the snow eggs. May be 
served hot or cold. 

800. MUSTARD EGGS. 

Nice for lunch or a quick supper. Melt 1 tablesponf'il of 
butter in saucepan standing in pan of boiling water, stir in 1 
tablespoonful flour, 2 eggs and a little salt and pepper. When 
smooth, stir in 1 large tablespoonfyl or more of French mustard 
and 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, thin to desired consistency with 
hot water, constantly stirring, until it boils. Pour over the 
eggs and serve at once. The eggs are boiled from 3 to 3i/^ 
minutes, plunged into very cold water, peeled and kept hot. 

If to be eaten cold, the mustard sauce must be stirred from 
time to time to prevent a skin from forming on the surface. 

801. DEVILED EGGS. 

Boil 1 dozen eggs for twenty minutes ; put in cold water and 
take off the shell. With sharp knife cut in halves lengthwise, 
take out the yolks carefully, put in bowl and rub fine; season 
with pepper, salt, a little cayenne, 1 tablespoonful of prepared 
mustard, and 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, mix thoroughly 



242 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

and fill the eggs with the mixture. Put the halves together and 
tie with thread or skewer together with short toothpicks. 

Excellent for picnics or as a garnish for lettuce salads, or 
cut small slice from the thick end of the white, so that the eggs 
can stand upright, arrange in dish, pour around them h6| Old 
Zealand sauce (see Sauces, Dept. 7) or a mustard sauCe (see 
"mustard eggs" above), and serve as "Columbus eggs." 

802. HAM AND EGGS. 

Fry or broil thin slices of lean ham and place on each one, 
a poached or fried egg, taking care not to have any melted fat 
on platter when serving. Very salty ham should be thoroughly^ 
soaked in cold water before frying. 



803. BACON-AND-EGG BALLS. 

Bacon and eggs, or ham and eggs, left over, may be chopped 
fine, mixed with a little mashed or chopped cold potato and tried- 
out bacon fat,, or other gravy, molded . into balls, egged and 
crumbed, and fried a light brown. If served hot, are very good. 



804. SURPRISE BACON. 

Beat 3 eggs light, add % cupful of sweet milk and 1 table- 
spoonful of flour ; beat until smooth. Dip 5 or 6 slices of bacon 
in this mixture and fry brown in hot drippings, then take bacon 
out and pour the remaining batter into pan, lay the fried bacon 
in it, cook until brown on one side, then turn like a large pan- 
cake. Cut into squares and serve hot. 



805. EGG GRUEL. 

Boil 2 or 3 fresh eggs for several hours and grate fine. Bring 
new milk to boil and thicken with the grated egg. Season with 
a little salt. Excellent for a weak stomach. 




Department 14. 



IF bread is the staff of life, then eveiy housewife or cook should consider it 
an accomplishment to make good bread. As with all other articles of food, 
it is important, of course^ that the best materials be used. The time 
required for working the dough, rising and baking should be carefully watched, 
and the temperature of the room and the oven properly regulated. 

To test the temperature of the oven, throw in a tablespoonfiil of flour. If 
it browns in five minutes, the temperature is right for baking bread ; if it browns 
in one minute^ it is hot enough for biscuits, rolls, ginger-snaps or cookies. 

Flour should be white with yellov^ish straw color. If it has a bluish cast 
or black specks, it is not considereif good. If flour holds its shape when squeezed 
in the hand it is good. When thrown against a smooth surface, if it falls 
like powder (scattered), it is not of the best quality. Knead a little of the flour, 
moistened between the fingers. If it is soft and sticky it is not fit to use. 

Home-made bread prepared with the best flour and yeast is invariably 
more satisfactory than the ordinary baker's bread, which, as a rule, serves 
only as a makeshift or substitute. Good -bread is a real necessity. 



BREAD DOUGH. 

In making dough, kneed about twenty-five minutes, pulling 
■the upper portions one way with the fingers, and pushing the 
lower parts the other way with the balls of the hands. The 
dough is ready when it no longer sticks. Then set aside to rise. 

343 



344 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

The quickest way to make bread is to set a sponge, a thin 
batter made by stirring a little flour into the other materials, 
letting it stand until filled with large bubbles. Then make the 
dough by adding the remainder of the flour. 

When a sponge has been made first, the dough is at once put 
in the baking pans ; when a sponge has not been made, the dough 
must rise and be kneaded again before putting it in the baking 
pan. While dough is rising should be covered with one or two 
thicknesses of cloth to exclude the air, which tends to form a 
crust on the dough, which makes it difficult to mix it thoroughly. 

Fill the baking pan half full, cover well and set in a warm 
place. When risen to double its size (in about one hour), mold 
into equally, sized loaves and let it rise again in the baking pans ; 
then put in a moderately heated oven. A brown crust should 
form and stop the rising in about fifteen minutes. Baking jtime, 
one hour, when oven is of the proper heat. Crust on rolls should be 
formed at once, therefore require a brisk heat. Many housekeepers 
recommend the adding of 1 cup of grated boiled potatoes to 1 
quart of flour. It is necessary that the rolls be very light. 

The desire to produce extra white flour causes millers to 
eliminate most of the nourishing ingredients, leaving almost noth- 
ing but the starch. Therefore, bread made from whole wheat 
flour is much more wholesome and should be eaten frequently. 

806. SALT RISING BREAD. 

In a pitcher or other deep vessel make a sponge by mixing 
three cups of warm water or new milk, one teaspoonful each of 
salt and soda and enough flour (about two tablespoonfuls) to 
make a batter, cover closely and set in a pot of warm water in a 
warm place. After 6 hours (or less), add one quart of flour and 
enough boiling water or scalded milk (or half and half) to make a 
smooth, elastic dough, working it about half an hour. Form 
loaves, put into buttered baking pans, filling them half full, let 
rise, until the pans are nearly full, and then, bake in moderate 
heat from thirty to forty minutes, according to the size of the 
loaves. To keep, wrap in cloth or place in stone jars. 

As milk bread doesn't keep well in hot weather, a teaspoonful 
of butter or lard may be substituted ior the milk. 

This bread may be eaten a*s soon as baked. 



DEPARTMENT 14 245 

807. YEAST BREAD. 

Soak one yeast cake in % cup of tepid water and mix with 
three pints of flour and one teaspoonful of salt, into which a tea- 
spoonful of butter or lard has been rubbed. Add enough flour 
to make a dough, knead about twenty-five minutes, put in a 
warm bowl, cover well and let rise in a warm place three hours. 
Then divide in even parts, form into loaves, put in buttered 
baking pans, filling them half, let rise again, till the pans are 
nearly full and bake in a moderate oven an hour or less. 

Yeast bread is indigestible during the first twenty-four hours 
after it is baked. When bread forms a leathery, tough mass 
while chewing, it should not be eaten. 

808. YEAST. 
The term "spark" means the seed from which yeast is made. 

Take 1 gallon of water and in it boil 3 handfuls of hops. Then 
add 1 pint of grated potato, strain through a colander, and when 
lukewarm add 1 cup of salt, 1 of sugar, and of yeast. Let it rise 
and after a few hours pour into jugs and cork up tight. A tea- 
cupful of this will make 4 loaves of bread. 

809. RAILROAD YEAST. 

Dissolve 2 cakes of yeast in a quart of warm water and let 
it rise. Boil 13 or 14 good sized potatoes, mash and mix in l^ 
teacupful of salt, i/^ teacup of sugar; add 1 quart of cold water, 
and 1 of hot ; stir in the water in which the yeast cake has been 
dissolved, and let it rise. Use 1 pint of the yeas^ for every loaf 
of bread. 

810. THE FAVORITE HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Put 1 cake of yeast foam and 1 tablespoonful sugar in cup of 
warm water and let set one hour. Then grate rapidly 1 raw 
potato, size of lemon, stir quickly into % pint boiling water with 
1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar. Take off the fire and when 
lukewarm stir in the cup of yeast; if put in cool place for two 
days will keep two or three weeks. 



346 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

The best way to use this yeast for bread is as follows : Grate 
1 raw potato, size of a large orange, into boiling water and rapidly 
add 1 tablespoonful each of salt and sugar and 3 quarts boiling 
wdter. Work fast or the potato will turn dark. Stir well and let 
cool. When lukewarm, add the pint of yeast made two days 
before. Stir thoroughly and dip out 1 pint to use as yeast in the 
next baking. Let the other yeast set four hours or longer. Beads 
will form on top. Then add 1 tablespoonful butter or lard and 
enough flour to make a good, stiff batter. Let rise and work down 
into loaf, adding flour enough to make good dough. Let rise again 
then shape into loaves. When light, bake. The yeast should be 
made at night and stand till morning before the flour is added, 
which has the tendency to make the yeast stronger and the bread 
lighter. 

If directions are carefully followed, there is no reason why 
every household should not have good bread. 

8n. BAKING-POWDER BREAD. 

Sift together six times 1 quart of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
Yz teaspoonful of sugar and 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Into this stir very rapidly enough water to make a stiff 
dough (about 2 cups), turn immediately into the buttered baking 
pan, cover with a buttered paper and bake in a hot oven forty- 
five minutes, removing the paper after fifteen minutes. Rapid 
action is necessary from the moment the water is added. May 
be eaten as soon as cool. 

812. BAKING-POWDER. 

There are numerous good baking-powders in the market, but 
the best of them is no better than one made of two parts of pure 
cream of tartar, one part of baking soda and one part of corn- 
starch, all powdered and sifted together several times. 

813. GRAHAM BREAD. 

Take 1 quart of white bread sponge, add scant i^ cupful of 
molasses and ^ teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water. 



DEPARTMENT 14 247 

Stir in as much Graham flour as can be worked in with a spoon, 
put in a baking pan, let it rise, and when light bake for one-half 
hour in moderate oven. 

814. GRAHAM BREAD— NO. 2. 

Mix together 2 cupfuls of Graham flour and 1 of white, add 
to this 1 cupful of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls molasses, % cupful of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Steam 
two hours and dry in oven. 

815. BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Put in a bowl 1 pint of sour milk ; add 1 cupful of New Orleans 
molasses, 2 level teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in a little hot 
water and 1 of salt. Add 2 cups of corn meal and 2 of Graham 
flour ; mix all thoroughly together, put in a tin pail that will not 
be more than half full when the mixture is in ; cover tightly and 
boil three hours ; uncover, and place in the oven for ten or fifteen 
minutes to dry. When ready, serve hot; delicious with good 
butter and coffee. Also excellent sliced and toasted. 

816. BOSTON BROWN BREAD— NO. 2. 

Mix with a pint of sour milk 1 teaspoonful of saleratus, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, ^2 cupful of molasses, a good pint of Indian 
meal, a scant pint of rye, and a handful of sifted white flour. Let 
rise for one hour and steam four, then put in the oven to dry off 
about one-half hour. 

817. BOSTON BROWN BREAD— NO. 3. 

One teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon soda, 3 small cups 
Graham flour, 1 large cup white flour. Sift together then add 2 
teaspoons salt, 14 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups sour milk. 
Put mixture in 1 lb. Baking Powder cans. Bake one hour. 

818. WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Dissolve % cup of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt in 1 pint of 
scalding milk, cool, add 1 yeast cake dissolved in }i cup of tepid 



248 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

water, and, with a spoon, mix in 4^/^ cups of fine granulated 
wheat. Cover well, set in a warm place to rise, about three hours. 
Divide, form into loaves, place in buttered pans, and when the 
dough rises the second time, bake about fifty minutes. 

If baking powder is to be used, allow lYz teas'poonful for 
every pint of wheat; also 1 saltspoonful of salt, and when well 
sifted together (6 times), quickly stir in 1 cup of cold water, place 
immediately in a buttered pan and bake one hour. 

819. GLUTEN BREAD. 

Mix a pint of boiling water with a pint of milk and add a 
teaspoonful each of butter and salt. Let it stand ten minutes, 
then stir in J4 yeast cake dissolved in y^ cup of warm milk 
(about 65°), 1 well-beaten egg and enough gluten flour to 
make a good batter. Beat hard ten minutes, and leave to rise cov- 
ered for four hours. Add enough gluten flour to make a dough 
and knead twenty minutes. Make into loaves, set these to rise 
until light and bake in a steady oven. (Free from starch.) 

820. OATMEAL BREAD. 

Pour over 2 cups of raw oatmeal a quart of boiling water. Let 
cool, then stir in 1 cup of molasses, a yeast cake dissolved in V^ 
cup of lukewarm water and a pinch of salt. Add enough flour to 
make a good bread dough. Knead and let rise in a warm place 
over night. In the morning knead, make into loaves, and set to 
rise. When light, bake in a slow oven. 

82L RYE BREAD. 

Bolted rye flour is treated the same as wheat flour, and rye 
meal the same as Graham flour. Rye bread should be baked in a 
slow oven from two to three hours. A good combination con- 
sists of 5 parts rye flour and 1 part each of wheat flour and corn- 
meal 

822. CORN BREAD. 

Mix 1 pint of scalded milk, l^ cake of compressed yeast, 1 
teaspoonful of salt and 1 tablespoonful of butter or lard ; stir in 



DEPARTMENT U 249 

enough corn meal to make a stiff dough and let rise over night. 
Next morning put on the board, cut with a knife about 100 deep 
gashes into the dough, turning the dough as little as possible, 
then mold into two loaves, let rise one hour and bake one hour. 

823. SOUTHERN CORN BREAD. 

Mix well 1 quart of corn meal, 1 pint of buttermilk, 2 eggs, 
3 tablespoonfuls of melted lard and ^ teaspoonful each of salt 
and baking soda. Beat vigorously for two minutes and bake in a 
greased pan in a quick oven. 

824. BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

Take 1 quart of ordinary light bread dough and work into it 
1 teacupful of lard, cut into small pieces, knead five minutes, and 
set away to rise. When light, flour the bread board, lift dough 
upon it, cut dough into pieces size of small egg ; knead each into 
small loaf, place in baking pan in rows, just touching each other, 
let rise, and when very light bake twenty minutes. 

825. PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Scald 1 quart of milk, and add ^ cupful each of sugar and 
butter, and 1 teaspoonful salt ; stir in enough flour to make batter 
as thick as for pancakes. Let cool, when lukewarm stir in Yz cup- 
ful of yeast or 1 cake pf compressed yeast, dissolved in warm 
water. Set in warm place to rise, and when quite light add flour 
and knead into dough, not too stiff, flatten with rolling pin, and 
cut into cakes, about 1 inch thick, with a biscuit cutter. Roll out 
each cake separately, spread with butter, fold double, let rise 
again, and bake twenty-five minutes. 

826. VIENNA ROLLS. 

Sift 2 or 3 times 1 quart of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, and V2 teaspoonful of salt; work in 1 tablespoonful butter; 
stir in 1 pint of milk, making a dough of the usual consistency ; roll 
to thickness of % an inch, cut into circular forms and fold over 



250 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

once, moistening a little between the folds, if necessary, to make 
them stick; butter baking pan, and do not let rolls touch each 
other when placed thereon ; moisten the tops of the rolls with a 
little milk, or butter melted in milk, and bake in hot oven. 

827. BAKING-POWDER BISCUITS. 

Sift 3 times 1 quart of flour and 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of good 
baking powder; rub in 1 tablespoonful of lard or butter; add I 
teaspoonful of salt and moisten with 1 pint of milk or water. 
Knead quickly, roll y2 an inch thick, cut into cakes and bake in a 
quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

828. SODA BISCUITS. 

Mix 1 quart of sifted flour with 1 teaspoonful of soda, 8 of 
cream tartar, 1 of salt. Rub in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, moisten 
with 1 pint of sweet milk. Knead lightly, cut out and bake in a 
quick oven. 

829. RAISED BISCUITS. 

Sift 1 quart flour into large bowl, make a hollow in the middle, 
pour in 1 pint of warm milk and % cup of melted butter. Add 1 
teaspoonful of salt, stir in a little of the flour, then V^ cupful of 
yeast, and follow with more flour. Let rise over night. Next 
morning add 1 scant teaspoonful of soda, and knead twenty min- 
utes or more, adding a little flour. Let it rise again. Roll out ^ 
inch thick, cut out, place on the tin, cover and set in warm place 
to rise. When light, bake lightly in moderate oven. 

830. LIGHT BISCUITS. 

Mix 1 pint of bread sponge with 1 tablespoonful each of melted 
butter and sugar, and the white of 1 egg beaten stiff.. Let rise 
until light. Then cut out or shape with the hands, place on tin 
and put in warm place. Wlien light, put in quick oven. 

831. BEATEN BISCUITS. 

Into 1 quart of flour rub lump of butter size of a small hen's 
egg, as much lard, and 1 level teaspoonful of salt. Make of this 



DEPARTMENT 14 251 

a stiff dough with sweet milk. Beat the dough with a mallet or 
rolling pin until it blisters, folding the dough over and over. Roll 
■ out to the thickness of Yz inch, cut out with a small cutter and 
bake in moderate oven. 

833. BISCUIT QUICKLY MADE. 

Sift three times 1 quart of flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder and 2 saltspoonfuls of salt. Chop into the sifted 
flour 1 heaping tablespoonful each of butter and lard and add 
enough milk to make a soft dough. Handle very little. Roll out 
1 inch thick and cut out round. Bake in a floured pan m a hot 
oven. 

833. CHEESE BISCUITS. 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough, roll thin, sprinkle 
thickly with grated cheese, double over once, and run the rolling 
pin over it lightly. Cut out round and bake. 

834. CHEESE BISCUITS— NO. 2. 

Sift 3 ozs. of flour and 1 pinch of red pepper on board, rub 
in 3 ozs. of butter and mix with 2 ozs. of Parmesan cheese. Make 
a hollow in the center, put into this 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful 
each of lemon juice and water, and work to a smooth stiff paste 
Roll out very thin, stamp out in small discs, place on a floured bak- 
ing tin, prick with fork and bake in slow oven for a few minutes. 
Whip a little cream, mix with grated Parmesan cheese and 1 pinch 
of red pepper, and of this put a small quantity in the center of 
each biscuit just before serving. 

835. DESSERT BISCUITS. 

Cream "Vz pound of fresh butter and work in % pound of pow- 
dered sugar, beat ten minutes longer and work in one by one 
whites of 5 eggs. Add vanilla flavoring and 1/4 pound of sifted 
flour. Divide in small circles or half circles, place on a buttered 
and floured tin and bake in a slack oven. 



252 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

836. HOT CROSS BUNS. 

Diissolve Yz ounce yeast in ^ pint of warm milk ; add 2 ounces 
butter, Yz ounce baking powder, mix with 1 pound of flour ; add 2 
eggs, 2 ounces sugar, 1 ounce each of cinnamon, cloves, hutmeg, 
ginger, and coriander seed ; work well together, put in a pan, cover 
with cloth, and set in warm place to rise. In about ^ hour shape 
into small balls with the hands, put on buttered baking tins, leav- 
ing little space between them. Set to prove for a little time, then 
cut across the top in the shape of a cross, brush over with a little 
milk, finish proving, and bake in a hot oven. Wheti done brush 
the tops again with milk and serve while hot. 

837. ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

Of British origin, but much improved upon by Americans. 

Take 1 cup boiled milk ; mix in pan with two tablespoonfuls 
sugar, teaspoonful salt, yolk and white of 1 egg beaten separately, 
% teacup yeast, adding enough flour to make light drop-batter. 
Put near fire for five or six hours to rise, then add lYz tablespoon- 
fuls of warmed butter ; mix well. Fill muffin rings 2/3 full with 
the batter, let rise again for ^ hour ; bake in hot oven until done. 
Should be pulled apart and not cut when wanted for use. 

838. CORN MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls wheat flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, Yz 
xupful corn meal, 1 tablespoonful each butter and sugar, 1 egg, 
lYi cups sweet milk, little salt. 

889. BUTTERMILK MUFFINS. 

Make a stiff batter of flour, 1 quart of buttermilk, in which 1 
teaspoonful of soda has been dissolved, and a little salt. Drop in 
hot gem-pans and bake in hot oven. Some sour cream added is 
an improvement. 

840. RAISED MUFFINS. 

Mix 1 pint of sweet milk, 1 tablespoonful of butter or lard, 1 
teaspoonful each' of sugar and salt and Y2 cup of yeast with 
enough flour to make a batter moderately thick. Put in warm (not 
hot) place ; when light, stir in large well-beaten egg and % tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in warm water. Let stand one-half 



DEPARTMENT 14 353 

hour more, put in well greased muffin rings or gem pans and bake 
quickly. Serve hot and do not cut with knife. 

841. TOASTED MUFFINS. 

Take muffins, pull apart (don't cut), toast before a clear fire; 
when done put a little butter on each half and close together again, 
put on hot plate with cover, cut into quarters and serve hot. 

842. WHITE MUFFINS. 

Take 1 teacupful of milk, add 2 beaten eggs, % cupful of 
sugar, and 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, then sift in 3 tea- 
cupfuls of flour,. to which has been added 3 teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Stir all together, beat two minutes, and bake in quick 
oven in muffin rings or gem pans. 

843. FRIED RYE MUFFINS. 

Sift together three times, 1 cup each of flour and rye meal, 1 
heaping tablespoonful of sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Mix 
with 1 egg beaten with % cup of milk. Stir in 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and fry in small spoonfuls in hot deep fat. 

844. CORN MUFFIN PUFFS. 

Cream 1 tablespoon butter and 1 of sugar, add beaten yolks 
4 eggs and 1 cup sweet milk. Mix 1 scant cup of yellow corn meal, 
% cup white flour, % teaspponful salt and 1 of baking powder, 
sift all together, add to mixture, stir lightly and carefully; add 
beaten whites of 4 eggs. Bake in gem tins in moderate oven. 

845. GRAHAM GEMS. 

Take 1 pint of sour milk, add to it 2 tablespoonfuls of mo- 
lasses, 1 of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 of soda; 
stir in enough Graham flour to make a thick batter. Have the 
gem pans hot, put 1 spoonful of batter in each pan and bake twenty 
minutes in brisk oven. 



254 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

846. GRAHAM GEMS— NO. 2. 

Beat 2 fresh eggs, add % cupful of sugar, 1 of milk, 2 of 
Graham flour, 1 of wheat flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, and 3 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; stir all thoroughly together and 
bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

847. CORN GEMS. 

Take 2 cupfuls of cornmeal, 2 of flour, 2 of sweet milk, % cup- 
ful of butter, 14 cupful of sugar, 2 eggs, and 3 teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Beat the eggs, butter and sugar together, add the 
milk, then the meal and flour, and at the last moment, the baking 
powder ; stir two minutes and bake in gem pans. 

848. STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

Mix 2 cups of sweet milk, 1 of sour, 2 cupfuls of corn meal, 1 
of flour, 1 of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little 
warm water. Steam two hours. 

849. SPIDER CORN CAKES. 

Beat 3 eggs, 1% cups of sugar, 3 cups of sweet milk, and 1 of 
sour, 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter and 1 1/3 cupfuls of com 
meal, 1/3 cupful of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of soda ; mix, heat a 
spider hot, greasing well, pour in the mixture, and bake in a hot 
oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

850, SALLY LUNN. 

Beat 2 eggs, add lump of soft butter the size of an egg, put 
in 3 teaspoonfuls of sugar, i/^ pint of milk, 1 pint of flour, and 
sift in 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; stir all together, and 
bake in shallow tins twenty minutes. 

851. SALLY LUNN OF' CORN MEAL. 

Mix 2 cupfuls of corn meal, 1 of flour, 1 cupful of sugar and 4 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Beat 8 eggs, 1 pint of rich 



DEPARTMENT 14 355 

milk and 1 teasponful of salt, add a cake of yeast dissolved in a 
little warm water, put all the ingredients together, beat until 
smooth, pour into a baking pan and set away in a warm place to 
rise. When pan is as full again as at first, put in a moderate 
oven and bake until well done. (Named for Sally Lunn, Bath, 
Eng). 

852. BREAKFAST PUFFS. 

Take a piece of light, bread dough and roll out to about 1 inch 
thick, cut into inch squares, and drop into boiling hot lard. 
When done, sift powdered sugar over them and serve hot. 

853. GRAHAM BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Take 2 cups Graham flour, 1 cupful wheat flour, 2 well beaten 
eggs, mix with sweet milk to make an extra thin batter. Cook 
in gem tins; set on the upper grate in oven and bake about fif- 
teen minutes. 

854. EDINBORO SHORTCAKE. 

Cream together 1 cup of butter and % cjip of brown sugar, 
moistened. Add pinch of salt, % teaspoonful mixed ground cloves 
and cardamom, and stir in flour enough to make a stiff, dough. 
Spread in large pan and bake in moderate heat. Eat hot with 
butter. 

855. JOHNNY CAKE. 

Stir together 3 cups of Indian meal, 1 of flour, 1/3 of molasses, 
and a little salt, with enough sour or butter-milk to make stiff 
batter. Stir in 1 teaspoonful soda and bake in hot oven. 

856. RUSKS. 

Beat 2 eggs, add % cupful of sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
1 cupful of sweet milk, 3 of flour, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Stir all together, bake in shallow buttered tins in a quick 
oven. 



356 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

857. BREAD STICKS. 

Into 1 pint of bread dough mix thoroughly the well beaten 
white of 1 egg, roll out on pastry board, cut in narrow strips, roll 
over and over, drawing out until the sticks are thicker than 
lead pencil, and cut in 6 inch lengths. Place side by side in flat 
pan, let rise ten or fifteen minutes, then bake until brown and 
crisp. Brushing with the white of an egg improves the appear- 
ance. 

858. CHEESE STRAWS. 

Mix 4 ounces of grated cheese, a large pinch each of salt and 
cayenne pepper with 6 tablespoonfuls of flour. Add beaten yolk 
of 1 egg and then enough ice water to make a stiff paste. Roll 
out Ys of an inch thick, cut into strips 5 inches long and % 
of an inch wide, and bake to a golden brown in a very hot 
oven, in about ten minutes. Two or 4 rings cut from the dough 
and baked with the strips looks nice with the cheese straws 
thrust through them. 

859. WAFFLES. 

Take 1 pint of sour milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 3 
eggs, beaten separately, 1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little 
warm water, add a little salt, and stir in enough flour to make 
a stiff batter. Bake upon waffle irons. The irons should be very 
hot, well greased and not filled with the batter more than two- 
thirds. Bake one minute each side. When done, butter imme- 
diately and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

860. RICE WAFFLES. 

Mix well ^ cup of boiled rice, li^ cups flour, 2 beaten eggs, 
Yz tablespoonful of butter, 1 large cup of milk. When smooth, stir 
in quickly 1 teaspoonful of baking powder and bake at once. 
When done, butter, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve with 
maple or lemon syrup. 




HOE-CAKES — (Origin, southern plantation, slavery days). The old-fash- 
ioned hoe-cake, called cold-water hoe-cake, was simply made from cornmeal, 
water and salt, and cooked by exposure to open fire. It is still a favorite 
with many, although some prefer to use buttermilk instead of water. 

MRS. JAKE'S HOE-CAKES. 
Take 1 pint of white cornmeal, Yi teaspoonful salt, and 1 teaspoonful sugar ; 
mix well, and add sufficient boiling milk or water to scald (add two eggs, or not, 
as desired). The batter should be thick enough not to spread when put on the 
griddle ; Grease the griddle with bacon-fat or lard, and drop the batter upon it 
from spoon. Flatten the cakes until about %. -inch in thickness ; cook slowly, but 
do not burn ; when of a brown color on underside, turn over and brown other 
side. Spread a little butter on each cake; serve immediately when done. 

HOMINY CAKES. 
Boil 1 quart of hominy extra soft ; add 1 pound of corn flour, 1 ounce of 
butter, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Stir into it 3 well-beaten eggs and sufficient 
milk to make a batter. Beat batter slowly and thoroughly, making it quite 
thin, then bake on griddle, dropping it on in large spoonfuls ; or may be baked 
in waffle irons. Yeast may be used instead of eggs, putting 1 tablespoonful in 
the batter and letting it stand for several hours in warm place to rise. Serve 
hot with butter and maple syrup. Delicious if properly prepared and cooked. 

DIXIE' RICE BATTER CAKES. 
Take 1 teacupful washed rice, 1 pint water, place in saucepan and boil with 
lid on until quite dry ; put into pan and mix in 1 cupful fresh milk, 6 ounces flour 
with one teaspoonful baking powder mixed with it, the well-beaten yolks of 5 
eggs, a little salt, and 2 tablespoonfuls of New-Orleans molasses. Work the 
paste well, form into cakes, put on gridiron, and bake until done. Buttermilk 
and baking soda may be substituted for the sweet milk and baking powder; 
or 2 cupfuls of cold cooked rice worked smooth with the milk can be used 
■tor the freshly boiled rice. Serve hot with butter and syrup or molasses. 



FLAPJACKS (Griddlecakes). 
Take 1 pint each meal and flour (meal scalded), piece of butter size of 
walnut, teaspoonful salt, 2 cupfuls milk (buttermilk preferred). If buttermilk, use 
soda ; if sweet milk yeast. Mix over fire ; time for cooking from two to three 
minutes. Serve hot, with molasses (and butter or not, as preferred). 

For other Southern recipes see pages 144, 249, 264, 268, 389. 



FANCY CAKES. 




cJELLY ROLL 



eHR15TMAS CAKE ^ 
MUT^N^eHERRy FILLING 






Copyrigbt, 19U8,bj Wm U. Lm 

Many different kinds of cakes can be made up in similar forms as shown above. 




Department 15. 

THE art of making cakes depends largely upon the use of the best 
materials and the proper temperature required for baking the various 
doughs. Test the oven by putting in a piece of white paper for five 
minutes. If the paper is but slightly jellowed, the oven has moderate heat 
and is right for all batter-cakes; if the color is a deep yellow, the oven is 
hot, and if dark brown, the heat is sufficient for quick baking. If a straw run 
into the cake comes out clean and dry it is a proof that it has baked enough. 
Take the cake out at once, and place the tin, for half an hour, where the air 
can freely pass around and under it. Hot cake is considered injurious. 

To make good cake or pastry the flour should go through the sieve at 
least three times, which tends to lighten and make flufiy. If sifted onto -a. 
piece of brown paper, 10 to 12 inches square, will avoid waste and facilitate the 
pouring back into the sieve; the paper should form a funnel if properly handled. 



861. LAYER CAKE. 

The following two recipes are recommended for layer cake, 
but any of the recipes given for sponge cake (pages 266-377) in this 
department may be used for layer cake. 

357 



258 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1. Weigh 4 eggs and measure out same quantity by weight 
of flour, butter and sugar. Make cream of the butter and sugar, 
add salt sparingly and the flavoring (for instance, a teaspoonful 
of vanilla or a tablespoonful of rum), then beat in the eggs, one 
at a time. . When all are in, continue beating fifteen minutes 
longer and then stir in the flour. Divide, put on greased tins 
and bake forty minutes ; slow oven. 

2. Knead 1 pound good fresh butter in cold water until all 
salt is removed, cream with 2^ ozs. powdered sugar, stir in little 
more than 1 pound of sifted flour and 1 small wineglass of cold 
water. When well worked, put in a cold place for few hours or 
over night, roll to the desired thickness, divide, put on greased 
tins and bake in moderate heat until dark yellow, not brown. 

862. LAYER CAKE FILLING. 

A cream to be placed between layers is made as follows: 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs' with a tablespoonful of corn starch 
and Yz cup of powdered sugar in a saucepan, put on the fire, add 
2 cups of boiling milk and stir until thick enough. When nearly 
cool, add the flavoring, as a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, Yz cup of strong coffee or 3 ozs. of melted 
chocolate. 

Caramel Filling : Boil 1 cup of sugar in 1 cup of water until 
a drop of the syrup plunged into cold water forms a soft ball when 
rolled between the fingers, remove quickly from the fire and place 
in pan half filled with cold water for two minutes, then pour the 
hot syrup in thin stream onto the whites of 2 eggs whipped to a 
stiff froth, beating briskly. Continue to beat while adding the 
fruit juice or pulp and until cold. Spread between the layers be- 
fore it stiffens. 

Plain Fruit Filling: Mix the fruit juice or pulp with enough 
powdered sugar to get the proper consistency and spread between 
the layers. 

Pineapple is chopped, drained and mixed with sweetened, 
whipped cream. 

883. LAYER CAKE FROSTING. 

Stir 1J4 cups of powdered sugar and the unbeaten white of 1 



DEPARTMENT 15 359 

egg until smooth. Then stir in the juice of l^ lemon, 10 drops 
vanilla and 2 of rose water. Will set in five or six minutes. Pour 
in center of cake while the cake is still warm, and with a wet knife 
spread over top and sides. 

Boiled Frosting : Boil 2 cups sugar in ^ cup of milk in double 
boiler five minutes, remove from the fire, beat till it creams and 
spread on the cake at once. 

Chocolate Icing : Boil 1 cup sugar and J4 cake of grated choc- 
olate in % cup of water or more in double boiler. When dis- 
solved remove from the fire, and when cold, stir in the beaten 
white of 1 egg or 1 small tablespoonful of soft butter. 

The Ideal Frosting: Boil 4 tablespoonfuls cold water and 1 cup 
sugar until it "hairs," upon being poured from a spoon. Beat 
white of 1 egg stiff, beat in the boiled sugar, and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla extract. If beaten too long will granulate in the plate. 
When it begins to "crinkle" on top it is ready to go on cake. 
Watch carefully. 

Royal Icing: Work into a white, shiny cream % pound of 
confectioner's sugar, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice and the white 
of 1 egg. Use a wooden spoon. 

864. BLACKBERRY CAKE. 

One cup of blackberry jam, ^ cup butter, 1 cup granulated 
sugar, lyz cups flour, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons sour cream, 1 teaspoon 
nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon baking soda. Beat but- 
ter, sugar and egg yolks to a cream then stir in jam; the sour 
cream and soda and then flavoring ; flour and well beaten whites 
of eggs. To Be baked in layers. Filling : 1% cups sugar, % cup 
sweet milk. Boil six minutes and when nearly cold, beat until 
creamy and spread between layers of cake. 

865. YOUNG BRIDE'S CAKE. 

Sift with 6 teacupfuls of flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Beat light the white of 2 dozen fresh eggs and cream 4 teacupfuls 
of sugar and 2 teacupfuls of butter. Add to the butter and sugar 
a portion of the flour using 1 teacupful of milk, then a portion of 



260 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

the egg, alternating until all are mixed. Bake in moderate oven 
for one hour and a half. 

Can be made in regular cake shape, pyramid, or built up in 
fancy forms ; all ingredients should be of the best. 

866. WIDOWS WEDDING CAKE. 

Two cups flour, 1 teaspoonful Cream of Tartar, % teaspoonful 
soda, white of 5 eggs, li/^ cups sugar, 54 cup butter, J^ cup milk, 
Flavor with lemon, beat all thoroughly together and bake. 

867. ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 3 flour, 2/3 sweet milk, ^^ of butter, white 
of 6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Mix butter and sugar, 
add the milk, then the flour with baking powder sifted in, then 
eggs beaten stifle. Flavor with vanilla. Filling: Two fresh eggs, 
% cup sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 pint milk, pinch salt, flavor 
vanilla. When custard is cooked add white of 3 more eggs well 
beaten. Add y^ pound chopped blanched almonds to custard. 
Frost top of cake with boiled frosting. Flavor with almond ex- 
tract. Split in half J4 pound almonds and lay on top of frosting. 

868. CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup milk, whites 4 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 21^ cups of 
flour, 1 scant cup butter, 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 even tea- 
spoon baking-powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon lemon, yi 
cake grated chocolate and pinch of salt. Put baking powder in 
Yo cup flour taken from 21/^ cups, then put in with whites of the 
egg last. If too stiff add little milk. Bake in layers. Filling: 
One coffee cup sugar boiled in little water until it strings ; don't 
stir ; beat the white of the eggs stiff ; then while pouring over the 
boiled sugar; beat constantly until stiff. 

869. CHOCOLATE CAKE— NO. 2. 

Shave off % cupful chocolate, put in stirring bowl, set the 
bowl in boiling water until chocolate is dissolved. While d|s- 



DEPARTMENT 15 261 

solving add Yz cupful of milk ; when dissolved set in cool place. 
When cold, add 2 cupfuls sugar, % cupful of butter, ^ cupful of 
milk, the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs and the whites of 2. When 
well mixed, stir in 2% cupfuls of flour sifted with 3 teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder. Bake "in layers and frost between. 

870. LUNCH CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of 6 eggs, add % cupful butter, 2 cupfuls fine 
white sugar, 14 cupful cold water, 2 cupfuls flour and 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder and pinch of salt. Beat together and add 
beaten whites. Bake in two layer tins, and when cool, place 
following mixture between: Beat 1 egg, add 1 cupful sugar, 3 
tart apples grated fine, juice of 1 lemon. Let boil until thick and 
spread between the layers. When cool cover the top of the cake 
with powdered sugar. 

871. DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

(Highly Recommended.) 

Cream % cupful ,of butter, work in, little by little, 1 cupful 
of sugar and then vfell-beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Then beat in 
gradually and alternately 1 heaping cupful of entire wheat 
flour sifted with 1 heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder, and 
14 cupful of milk. Then fold in the whites of 2 eggs beaten 
stiff, and finally 2 ozs. of melted chocolate and % teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla. Beat well together, put in a deep cake pan, bake 
forty minutes, and if desired, cover with white frosting, when 
cold. 

872. CHRISTMAS CAKE. 

Nut and Cherry Filling. 

For 3 large layers, take % cup butter, 1/2 cup sweet milk, 1 of 
sugar, 2y2 of flour, whites of 5 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 
der and 1 of lemon extract. Filling: One half cupful each of 
raisins, nuts and cherries. Boil Vz cup granulated sugar, and V^ 
c^ water until stringy, then while beating pour on beaten white 



362 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

of 2 eggs. Stir in fruit and nut when smooth and place between 
the layers and on top. 

873. SANTA CLAUS CHRISTMAS CAKE. 

Cream y^ pound best butter and gradually add V^ pound sugar. 
Beat the yolks of 6 eggs until thick and creamy and the white 
until stiff. Add to butter and sugar mixture, also add % pound 
flour, reserving enough to dredge fruit with. Mix, sift and add 
% teaspoonful each of nutmeg, allspice and mace and l^ teaspoon 
cloves. Then 2 tablespoons brandy and 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
Then 1^ pounds raisins carefully seeded and cut fine ; % pound 
currants, y^, pound citron cut thin, and % pound figs, also chopped 
fine. Dredge fruit with remaining flour. Beat mixture thor- 
oughly and put into buttered angel-cake tin dredged with flour. 
Cover with buttered paper, steam for three hours, then bake one 
hour and a half in slow oven. If not steamed bake in slow oven 
at least four hours. 

Frosting : Boil 2 cups sugar until it sirups, pour, while beat- 
ing constantly into beaten white of 3 eggs, add pinch tartaric acid 
and continue beating. When stiff enough to spread put thin coat- 
ing on cake. Beat remaining frosting until stiff and cold enough 
to hold its shape after being forced through a cornucopia (made 
of stiff white paper). Cover first coating with another layer of 
frosting and make fancy figures of remainder. Nuts can be 
sprinkled over top, if desired, same as in "Christmas Cake with 
nut and cherry filling." 



874, POUND CAKE. 

Rub 54 pound butter until light and smooth, stir in 1 pound 
sugar until creamy, add beaten yolks of 8 eggs. Sift 3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder and 1 of salt with 1 pound of flour. Stir part 
into the batter until smooth, sprinkle over ^ teaspoonful grated 
nutmeg, add beaten whites of ^g'g and remainder of flour, divide 
into 2 loaves, and bake in greased and paper-lined tins about forty- 
five minutes in moderately hot oven. 



DEPARTMENT 15 263 



875. POUND CAKE— NO. 2. 



Make cream of 2 cups butter and 3 of sugar, as indicated in 
preceding recipe ; stir in 1^^ cups milk, then the yolks of 9 eggs 
well beaten, sift in 4 cups flour with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and then add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Bake 
in moderately heated oven about forty-five minutes. 

876. SPICE CAKE. 

Make cream of 1 cup butter and 2 of sugar, add 4 beaten eggs, 
and stir for five minutes longer, then mix in cupful sweet milk, J4 
grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful each cinnamon, mace (outer hull 
nutmeg), clove. Measure 3 cupfuls flour and mix with 2 tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar and 1 of soda ; sift twice and, stir in with 
the rest of the ingredients. Bake from forty to sixty minutes in 
moderate heat. 

877. SPICE CAKE— NO. 2. 

Make a cream of 2/3 cupful of butter and 2 cups sugar, add 3 
beaten eggs, 1 cupful so\ir or buttermilk in which has been dis- 
solved 1 teaspoonful soda, and 3^^ cupfuls of flour ; add spices to 
taste. Bake in shallow square tins ; when done cover with yolk 
of egg, beaten with powdered sugar. Cut in squares to serve. 

878. FRUIT CAKE. 

Rub 1 cup of butter smooth, stir in 3 cups brown sugar until 
creamy, then the yolks of 8 eggs lightly beaten, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
sour milk, piece of lard the size of a walnut, 1 teaspoonful currant 
jelly, y2 tablespoonful each of ground cloves, cinnamon and nut- 
meg, also 1 pound each of stoned raisins and well cleaned cur- 
rants, and % pound chopped citron, 1 teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in little water and 1 quart flour, then add the beaten whites 
of eggs. When well mixed, bake three hours in pans lined with 
greased paper. 

879. FRUIT CAKE— NO. 2. 

Beat 4 cupfuls of sugar with l*^ cupfuls of creamed butter, 
then stir in 6 beaten eggs, 2 cupfuls of sweet milk, 1 pound oi 



264 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

stoned and chopped raisins, 1 pound of chopped or sliced citron, 
GVz cupfuls of flour, and 2 teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in warm 
water ; line baking pans with greased paper and bake from two to 
three hours. 

880. FRUIT CAKE— NO. 3. 

Cream 1 cupful butter, stir in 1 cup of brown sugar and 1 
of molasses ; add 4 eggs, 1^/^ teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, l^ teaspoonful grated nutmeg, 2 pounds chopped 
raisins and a little more than 3 cupfuls of flour. 



881. ECONOMICAL FRUIT CAKE. 

Place any stale, dry cake, otherwise perfectly good, in steamer 
and steam until soft ; then put in bowl and rub fine with the hands. 
To 3 cupfuls of the crumbs, add 1 cupful of best molasses, % 
cupful sweet milk, 3 well beaten eggs, a little less than % cupful 
of butter, 1 cupful of stoned raisins, a handful of cleaned cur- 
rants, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder and spice to taste ; stir 
all together and add enough flour to make dough little thicker 
than ordinary cake dough. Cover bottom of shallow pan with 
greased paper, spread in dough evenly and bake in moderate heat 
from half to three quarters of an hour. 

882. MOTHER WASHINGTON'S FRUIT CAKE. 

Have ready in advance 1% cups shredded citron, J4 cup 
candied lemon peel, 3 cups currants, cleaned, washed and dried, 
1% cups raisins, i cup blanched almonds chopped fine, and set 
aside till required. 

Mix 2 cups butter in warm bowl with 3 cups granulated 
sugar. Beat together till light. Into a separate dish break 5 
?ggs. Line a large tin with paper and sift into it 2 pints flour. 
Add the fruit and the following spices: 1 tablespoonful each 
nutmeg, mace and cinnamon; also % tablespoonful each all- 
spice and cloves. Mix together and put aside till needed. 

Butter a deep cake tin lined with white paper, greased. Cover 



DEPARTMENT 15 265 

the entire outside surface of tin with four or more thicknesses 
of wrapping paper, which must be fastened on with a fine wire. 
Beat the butter and sugar together once more, stir in the eggs, 
two at a time. Now add % glass of best brandy together with 
the flour and fruit. Mix well, pour into the tin, cover with 
three or four thicknesses of brown paper and bake four or five 
hours in a slow even oven. 

' The paper on the outside of the tin will scorch, but owing to 
its thickness it is supposed to last until the cake is done. Whip 
to a-stifif froth the whites of 2 or 3 eggs and i?^ teaspoonful of 
cold water and beat in enough confectioner's XXX sugar to 
make it the consistency of paste, and ice or frost the cake over 
when cold. 

The above proportions may be increased or diminished ac- 
cording to size of cake desired. This recipe is supposed to be 
sufficient for about 30 guests. This cake will keep almost in- 
definitely, especially if kept in stone jars. 

883. FIG CAKE. 

For dark part, take % cup butter, 1 cup sugar, l^ cup water, 
1% cups flour, 1% cups raisins stoned and cut fine, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder sifted into the flour. Nutmeg, clove and 
cinnamon. Bake in two round layers. One pound of select figs. 
Save- 8 of finest for top of cake. For paste or filling, use remain- 
der of figs washed and chopped fine, 1 tablespoonful sugar, and a 
little water; cook till smooth. 

Make any delicate white cake. Alternate light and dark lay- 
ers, using the fig paste between each layer. Frost the cake all 
over with boiled frosting and place the 8 select figs artistically 
on top. Very rich and elegant. 

884. RAISIN CAKE. 

Cream together 1 cupful butter and 2 of sugar, add 1 cupful 
of molasses, 3 well beaten eggs, 1 cupful of buttermilk, 1 of stoned 
raisins, 5 of flour. Wo teaspoonfuls of soda, 3 of cinnamon, 2 of 
cloves, 1 grated nutmeg, stir well together and bake three hours 
in pans lined with greased paper. 



266 DOMESTIC SCIENCE CQOK BOOK 

885. RICH PLUM CAKE. 

Make cream of 1 cup of butter and i/^ cup of lard with 1 table- 
spoonful salt, then work in 3 I'arge cups of sugar and stir in 5 
beaten eggs. Add 2 cupfuls of raisins, 2 of currants, 1 large cup- 
ful of chopped citron, 1 tablespoonful of allspice, 1 of cinnamon, 
% a nutmeg grated, 1 tablespoonful cloves, 1 cupful molasses, 1 
cupful of cold, strong coffee, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 of cream tar- 
tar and 4^ cupfuls of flour. Make two loaves and bake two 
hours in slow oven. 

886. DATE CAKE. 

Cream % cup butter or lard with 1 cup sugar and Yz cup mo- 
lasses, then work in 2 eggs, and when properly smooth, pour on 
1 scant cup of cider or best vinegar and stir until well blended. 
Then add % pound of dates stoned and chopped, % teaspoonful 
each ground cinnamon, nutmeg or mace (outer hull of nutmeg), 
and cloves, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, 1% teaspoonfuls of soda, and 
enough flour to make a rather stiff dough. The given quantity- 
gives a loaf of 13 inches in length and 8 inches in width. Bake in 
pan. 

887. SPONGECAKE. 

The secret of making good sponge cake: Beat together the 
yolks of eggs and the powdered sugar until thoroughly blended, 
which will take half an hour at least. When beating the whites 
of egg do not break the foam. Heat should be moderate at 
first, gradually increasing after half an hour. 

Beat 2 cups of sugar and 6 yolks of egg half an hour, add 31/^ 
cupfuls of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. When well mixed, 
stir in 6 well-beaten whites of eggs. Line baking pan with 
greased paper, pour in the dough and bake in moderate heat. 

388. SPONGE CAKE— NO. 2. 

Beat 2 cups of powdered sugar and 5 yolks of egg together 
half an hour, add 2 cups of flour sifted with 3 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Mix well, stir in i^ cup of cold water, fold in the well- 



DEPARTMENT 15 267 

beaten whites of 4 eggs, and bake as above. Cover with icing 
if desired. 

889. WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Stir together 1*^ cups of powdered sugar, with 1 cup of flour 
and 1 teaspoonful of cream tartar. When thoroughly mixed, add 
the whites of 10 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Line baking pan 
with greased paper, pour in dough and bake in moderate oven. Be 
careful not to jar the cake while baking, as it will fall and be- 
come heavy. 

890. WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

Stir together 1 cupful of powdered sugar, 1 cupful of flour, 1 
teaspoonful baking powder, and pinch of salt. When mixed, stir 
in 2 well-beaten eggs and % cupful of boiling water; bake in 
paper-lined tins in moderate oven. 

891. 1775 SPONGE CAKE. 

Take 13 eggs, the weight of 10 in powdered sugar and of 6 in 
flour. Beat the yolks very light, add the sugar gradually, then the 
flour, then stir in the beaten whites, add pinch of salt and flavor 
with lemon. Bake in moderately heated oven. 

892. HONEY SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of 5 eggs very light, then add 1 cupful of 
strained honey and beat three minutes longer, sift in 1 cupful 
of flour, beat five minutes, add the beaten whites of 5 eggs, stir- 
ring lightly and bake in very hot oven. 

893. BOSTON SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of 5 eggs for five minutes, add % cupful pow- 
dered sugar ; beat the whites stiff and add ^ cupful sugar, beat 
light, mix together add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice and l*/^ cup- 
fuls flour, put in angel cake tin and bake for thirty-five or forty 
minutes in slow oven. Add flour with as little stirring as possi- 
ble. 



868 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

894. HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

Put in deep mixing bowl in following order, 2 eggs, pinch of 
salt, beat with egg beater until light and thick. Graduajly add 
1 cup granulated sugar, beat four or five minutes. Remove beater, 
add y2 teaspoon lemon extract, 1^ cups flour (sifted before meas- 
uring) with 1% teaspoons baking-powder sifted in. Stir into the 
egg mixture and add % cup boiling water. StJr all uncil smooth. 
Have biscuit tin ready, well greased and lined with buttered 
paper ; pour in mixture, bake until light brown, in moderate oven. 
When cool cover with frosting, and place one-half of an English 
walnut on each square. 

895. ONE-EGG CAKE. 

Cream % cup butter, work in 1 cup of sugar, then 1 egg yolk. 
When smooth stir in 1 cup of milk and gradually 2 cups or less 
of flour sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with 
vanilla, bake and ice with the following : 

Beat 1 cupful of confectioner's sugar slowly into the white of 
one egg and flavor with % teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir over the 
fire 1 oz. grated chocolate, 2 tablespoonfuls of confectioner's 
sugar and 1 of hot water, until smooth, then add 1 more table- 
spoonful of hot water and stir into the sugar and egg. 

896. LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

White cake baked in layers with chopped figs and whipped 
cream filling; bake in quick oven about ten or fifteen minutes. 
Serve cold. 



897. STOAKES CAKE. 

Chop fine % pound dates, 14 pound almonds, add 1 cup sugar, 
about 1 cup flour, 1 pinch salt ; yolks and whites of 7 eggs, beaten 
separately. Bake in two biscuit tins, frost (white or-choclate), 
ati^cut in squares. 



DEPARTMENT 15 369 

898. DEVIL'S FOOD. 
(Extra Fine.) 

Cream, 1 cup light brown sugar with 1/4 cup butter and 1 egg. 
Add J4 cup sour milk or cream, first dissolving in it, 1 tea- 
spooful soda. Stir in 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 1J4 cups sifted flour, 
and then 2 squares Baker's chocolate dissolved in % cup boiling 
water. If sour cream is used instead of milk, use half the quantity 
of butter. Bake in two layers, or in loaf in moderate oven. Fill- 
ing: Dissolve 1 square Baker's chocolate, grated, in dish placed 
in boiling water. Whip white of 2 eggs to stiff froth. Pour V^ 
cup boiling water over 1 cup granulated sugar, and cook till it 
"hairs" (spun, resembling fine threads). Turn melted sugar 
slowly into beaten eggs and whip until mixture is cool. Add the 
melted chocolate and whip until a smooth frothy cream; then 
whip in 14 or 1 teaspoonful vanilla. This will be sufiicient for top 
and filling. 

899. ANGEL'S FOOD. 

Whites of 11 eggs, 1 cup flour, 1^^ cups sugar, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla extract. Sift sugar 4 times. Sift flour 4 times with tea- 
, spoonful cream of tartar added, also pinch of salt. Beat the eggs 
until light and diy, add sugar lightly, then flour and vanilla. 

The secret of success is in the mixing and baking. Put to- 
gether in order given. Do not use a spoon or beat hard. Beat 
the eggs with a 5-wire egg beater, and use the same to mix the 
cake, . Bake in ungreased angel cake pan forty minutes to one 
hour. Let the cake cool in inverted position, before removing 
from pan. The regular pan for this cake has little legs sticking 
up. Oli-en must be moderate. One of the delicate cakes. 

900. ANGEL CAKE. ' 

Sift 1 cup flour with % teaspoonful cream of tartar four or 
five times. Beat whites of 9 large or 10 small eggs very stiff, 
with pinch of salt, and then gradually beat in 1 J4 cups powdered 
sugar, also gradually, 1 cup flour. Bake in greased, paper lined 
tin in moderate heat about thirty-five minutes. Do not ja^ pan 



370 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK. BOOK 

while baking, as the cake will fall and become heavy. Take out 
of oven, let stand ten minutes, loosen around the sides and drop 
out. Cover with icing if desired. If well made, the cake will 
be spongy and hard to cut with knfe. 

901. ANGEL CAKE— NO. 2. 

Beat 5 whites of egg stiff; beat in, little by little, ^ cup of 
powdered sugar, then, gradually, ^ cup flour, sifted several times 
with 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder, and little lemon fuice. 
Do not grease the tin. Bake in hot oven. 

902. GOLDEN CAKE. 

Beat together 1 cupful of butter with 2 cupfuls sugar; add 
1 cupful milk and beat again. Then stir in 3i/^ cupfuls of flour, 
the well-beaten yolks of 6 eggs, and 3 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Stir together and bake in a loaf or layers. 

903. SILVER CAKE. 

Beat together li cupful butter with 2 cupfuls sugar, 2/3 cup 
of milk, 2y2 cupfuls of flour and 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Stir in the well-beaten whites of 6 eggs. 

The Silver and Golden cake can be combined by putting altern- 
ate layers qf the two doughs in the pan. 

904. SNOWFLAKE CAKE. 

Mix 1% cups of powdered sugar, 1 of ilour, and i/^ teaspoonful 
cream tartar. When well mixed, add the well-beaten whites of 
8 eggs. Bake in a pan lined with greased paper and in moderate 
heat. / 

905. MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part: Stir together 1% cupfuls sugar and % cupful 
butter; then add 1 cupful sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 
% teaspoonful soda, and 2 cupfuls of flour and then stir in the 
whites of 4 eggs, thoroughly beaten. 

Dark Part: Stir together 1 cupful brown sugar, y^ cupful of 



DEPARTMENT 15 2n 

i 
molasses, ^z cupful of soft butter, and beaten yolks of 4 eggs, Yz 
cupful of milk, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, % teaspoonful of soda, 
2 of cinnamon, and grate in i/^ nutmeg; then stir in 2 cupfuls 
flour. Line baking pan with buttered paper and put in the light 
and dark mixtures alternating by spoonfuls. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

906. WATERMELON CAKE. 

Make cream of Yz cup butter and 1 cup of powdered sugar, 
work in % cup milk and 3 cups flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful 
cream tartar and i^ teaspoonful soda, also the rind and juice of 
1 lemon. Then work in the well-beaten whites of 3 eggs. Take 
1/3 of the mixture and work into it i/^ cup of stoned and halved 
raisins, and 1 teaspoonful of liquid cochineal (harmless coloring 
matter), surround with the remaining dough and bake in mod- 
erate heat. 

907. CREAM CAKE. 

Beat together 1 cup sugar and 2 eggs, then add 1 cupful of 
sweet cream, 1 2/3 cupfuls of flour and 3 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Stir all together and bake in rather brisk oven. 

908. BREAD CAKE. 

Beat together 1 cupful of butter with 2 of sugar, add 2 well 
beaten eggs, 2 cupfuls stoned raisins, 2/3 teaspoonful soda in 
1 of milk, and then, stir in 3 cupfuls light bread dough ; work until 
thoroughly mixed, line baking pan with buttered paper, put in 
dough, set in warm place, to rise, and when light, bake in mod-^ 
erate oven for one hour or more. 

909. IMPERIAL CAKE. 

Make cream of % pound each, butter and sugar. Sift ^ pound 
flour 3 or 4 times with Yz teaspoonful (or a little more) of baking 
powder and mix in grated rind of 1 lemon. Beat 4 eggs in bowl 
until light. Then work the flour and the egg into the butter and 
sugar, alternately adding a little of each. When smooth, pour Y2 
of the mixture into a tin lined with buttered paper, strew halved, 



21% DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

candied cherries all over, pour the other half of dough on top 
and bake in hot oven three-quarters of an hour, reducing the 
heat below the pan, when the cake has risen. 

910. NUT CAKE. 

Make a cream of 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter and 3 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, then, stir in 2 cups of milk, and when well 
blended, add 1 cup each of broken nut meats and bread Crumbs 
moistened with well-beaten egg, Y^, teaspoonful salt, and sugar to 
taste. Bake in deep tin lined with buttered paper. 

fVery nourishing and excellent for the lunch box. 

911. WALNUT CAKE. 

One cup chopped walnuts, % cup butter, 2 cups flour, ^ cup 
sweet milk, ly^ cups sugar, whites of 4 eggs well beaten, 3 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder ; add the nut meats last. 

912. HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Take 1 cup butter, 2^^ cups sugar, 3V^ cups flour, 4 eggs, 1 
teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar or baking powder, 1 
pint nuts, 1 pound seeded raisins. Mix and bake. 

913. PECAN CAKE. 

Take 6 eggs beaten separately, ^ pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 

1 pound flour, 1 heaping teaspoon of baking powder in flour, 2 
pounds of raisins, 2 pounds of pecans, 2 nutmegs, y^ teacup of 
orange peel, % teacup of black molasses, 1 teacup of whiskey. 
Mix and bake. 

914. DUTCH PEACH CAKE. 

Stir 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, i/^ teaspoonful salt with 

2 cups of flour. Work with l^ cup butter. Add 1 beaten egg to 
1 cup of milk and stir in with flour. Butter pie tin and pour in 
mixture, pressing into top of the dough, 4 peaches, peeled, stoned 
and quartered. Mix 1 tablespoonful cinnamon and 3 of sugar, 
and sprinkle over top. Bake and serve with good butter. 



DEPARTMENT 15 273 

915. ZULACAKE. 

Cream % cup butter and 1 of sugar. Add ^ cup sweet milk, 
y2 of corn starch and 1 of flour with 1 teaspoonful baking powder 
sifted in, pinch of salt and 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. Beat and 
add white of 4 eggs, little at a time until 1/3 is smoothly mixed, 
and then the remainder can be quickly added. 

Frosting: Boil 1 cup maple sugar with 4 tablespoons cold 
water until it will "hair." White 1 egg, beaten stiflf. Stir with 
sugar, beat and spread on cake. 

916. BROWNIES' FOOD. 

Grate fine ^ a cake of good unsweetened chocolate, put in a 
double boiler with 1 large cupful sweet milk, cook until smooth 
and thick, then set aside to cool. Cream together II/2 cupfuls 
sugar with % cupful butter, add the well beaten yolks of 4 eggs, 
then the chocolate and beat two or three minutes. Sift 3 cupfuls 
flour two or three times with 2 teaspoonfuls best baking powder, 
stir it in gradually, then add the beaten whites of 4 eggs. Make 
into layers or into a loaf, and bake in moderate heat. Finish with 
white icing. 

917. APPLE CAKE. 

Stir together II/2 cupfuls of sugar and large 1^ cupful of 
butter; add 2 eggs, the white and yoke beaten separately, i/^ cup- 
ful of sweet milk, 2 cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar sifted 
in the flour and % teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk. Put 
in jelly-cake tins cover top with sliced apples and bake ; when done 
put melted butter or thick whipped cream on the apple, sift pow- 
dered sugar over all, and serve at once. 

918. DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

Soak 3 cups good dried apples over night in warm water. In 
the morning cut in small pieces, put in stew pan with 2 cup- 
fuls of best molasses and simmer two hours; add 2 beaten eggs, 
1 cupful of sugar, 1 of milk, % cupful of butter, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
soda, spice to taste, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Bake like fruit cake. 



274 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

919. DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

One and ^ pints of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, i^ 
teaspoonful of salt, % cup of butter rubbed well into the flour. 
Beat 1 egg very light and add ^ cup cold water, pour into the 
flour and beat well. Butter the pan and pour in batter. Peel and 
slice 4 or 5 apples and put through the batter. Sprinkle plenty of 
sugar, cinnamon and butter on top. 

920. CHEESE CAKE. 

Mix 1 cupful of cracker crumbs with 1 cottage or Neufchatel 
cheese, and stir together thoroughly with 4 eggs well blended with 
1 cup of sugar. Then add % cup of rich cream, or 1 tablespoonful 
soft butter and % cup of milk. Flavor with rind of 1 lemon 
, grated and half the juice, % teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and 
^ cup of currants well washed, dried and rolled in flour. Line 
well buttered patty-pans (small tins) with puff paste, pour mix- 
ture in and bake fifteen or twenty minutes in hot oven, but do not 
brown the top. 

921. GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Heat, but do not boil, 1 quart milk, add ^2 cupful butter, 2/3 
cupful sugar and 1 teaspoonful salt. Let cool slightly, stir in enough 
flour to make thin batter and a cake of compressed yeast dissolved 
in a little warm water. Set in warm place to rise and when very 
light, work in enough flour to make dough, roll, and put in pan. 
Brush top with the beaten white of 1 egg, sprinkle on % cupful 
sugar and 1 cupful of any kind of chopped nut meats, let rise 
until light and bake in moderate oven. 

922. WAVY EASTER CAKE. 

Take 6 eggs, 2 spoonfuls butter, 2 spoonfuls sugar, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls rum, and as much flour as the dough will take. Roll out 
thin, brush well with melted butter, strew with vanilla sugar, 
or with sugar and cinnamon mixed, and bake a light brown. As 
the alcohol in the rum disappears entirely while baking, there can 
be no objection to the recipe. 



DEPARTMENT 15 275 

923. GINGERBREAD— FAIRY. 

Take 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 4 cups 
flour, ^ teaspoonful soda, 1 tablespoonful ginger. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar, when light add the ginger and milk (in 
which the soda has been dissolved). Then add the flour. Turn 
baking pans upside down, butter them and spread batter extra 
thin. Bake in moderate oven until brown. While hot cut in 
small squares with case knife and slip from pan. Put in jjaste- 
board box with tissue paper between the layers. 

924. GERMAN BREAD CAKE. 

Stir together for half hour 16 yolks of egg, 1 pound each of 
powdered sugar and freshly grated almonds, 2 ozs. each of finely 
grated and sifted chocolate and minced citron, 1 teaspoonful 
ground cinnamon, % a teaspoon each of ground cloves and carda- 
mom (East Indian spice, delicious flavor), the chopped rind and 
the juice of 1 lemon. When well mixed, work in % pound toasted 
rye bread (Graham or Pumpernickel will do) pounded fine and 
sifted ,and then the whites of 13 eggs beaten stiff. Finally work 
in 1 cup of Medford rum or brandy and put quickly in oven in 
pan well buttered and strewn with fine toasted bread crumbs, as 
above. Bake from one to one and one-half hours in moderate heat, 
reducing heat little below the pan, after the cake has risen. Cover 
with white or chocolate icing. If no icing is desired, the quantity 
of chocolate in the cake may be increased. 

925. GINGERBREAD. 

Prepare soft dough of 1 cup sour cream, 1 egg, 1 9up of 
molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in warm water, 1 large 
teaspoonful ginger and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Bake in moderate 
oven and serve hot. 

Honey, instead of molasses, makes delicious variety. 

926. GINGERBREAD— NO. 2. 

Cream 1 cupful butter with i^ cupful of brown sugar. Add 
2 cupfuls of molasses, 1 cupful of either sweet or sour milk, 1 



276 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

tablespoonful of ginger and 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. 
Work smooth, then work in 3 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten 
separately, 2 cups of sifted flour, 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in warm water and finish with 2 additional cups of sifted flour. 
Pour the dough into 2 buttered and papered bread-pans and bake 
from forty minutes to one hour in moderate oven. 

This recipe gives a soft gingerbread. If wanted hard, omit 
the eggs and roll out % inch thick. Cut out, or if to be baked in 
large cakes, score (mark) the surface for cutting with knife. 

927. SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

Put into a cup 4 tablespoonfuls hot water, 3 of melted butter, 
and fill up with molasses. Put into the stirring bowl 1 teaspoonful 
of ginger and 1 of soda, and to this add the mixture in the cup. 
Stir in enough flour to make a stiflf cake dough. Pour into square 
tins and bake carefully. 

928. MOLASSES CAKE. 

Put together 2 cupfuls.of molasses, 2 of brown sugar, 1 of 
sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 cupful of butter, 2 beaten eggs', 
514 cupfuls of flour. Beat all together, line dripping-pan with 
buttered paper, and put in dough. Sift white sugar over top and 
bake in slow oven. Excellent ; will keep for weeks. 

929. POTATO CAKE. 

Boil extra mealy potatoes in skins, until nearly soft ; peel, and 
when quite cold, grate enough to make 1 pound and 2 ozs. Spread 
on flat dish and put in an airy place till next day. Prepare baking 
tin by buttering well and strewing in fine dry crumbs of bread. 
Then stir together the yolks of 16 eggs, ^4 pound of sifted pow- 
dered sugar, the grated rind and the juice of 1 lemon, 6 ozs. of 
grated sweet almonds and % oz. of grated bitter almonds. Grad- 
ually stir in the potato, and finally the whites of 14 eggs beaten 
stiff with 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of potato starch or corn starch. 



DEPARTMENT 15 277 

Put quickly in the tin and bake from one to one and one-half 
hours in moderate heat. Reduce the heat little below the pan 
after the cake has risen. 



930. CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Cream together 1 cupful powdered sugar and 1^2 cupfuls of 
butter, add i/^ cupful of cornstarch, 1 scant cupful of flour and 
1% teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted together; then add % 
cupful sweet milk and the whites of 3 eggs beaten stifif. 

931. JELLY ROLL. 

Beat 3 eggs extra light, add y^ cupful of brown sugar and 
1 cupful of flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Bake 
quickly in large, well-greased tin, turn out on cloth, spread with 
jelly while hot and roll up. 

932. ORANGE ROLY POLY. 

Roll out a rich biscuit dough to the thickness of y^ inch, cover 
with sliced oranges without seeds, sift sugar over all and place 
bits of butter here and there. Roll up, sew firmly in a floured 
cloth, steam three hours and serve with a hot lemon sauce. 



933. CONFECTION CAKE. 

Take % cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 
whites of 3 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake half of 
this in two jelly tins. To the remainder add 3 yolks, 1 tablespoon- 
full molasses, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup chopped figs, y^ pound 
chopped citron, % teaspoonful cinnamon and allspice, 1 table- 
spoonful flour. Bake in three tins. Put together with alternate 
layers of frosting and jelly, frosting on the fruit cake. 




Department 16. 

PASTRY is a general term applying to all articles of food consisting of a 
crust of dough filled with stewed fruit, a custard, mince meat or any 
other similar combination. It is usually served at least once a day in 
most American homes. The ingredients, of course, should be the best. 

Lightness, so desirable in pastry, depends on the expansion of the air 
in the dough. The colder the dough, the greater the expansion in the oven; 
therefore the dough should be made in a cold room and with very cold 
water. Do not touch it with hot hands, and do not squeeze the air out of it 
by pressing hard, but roll very lightly, lifting the rolling-pin frequently. 

The word "pie" is of Gaelic origin, and has always signified what it 
means to-day. Pie is a distinct product of Great Britain and Ireland, but like 
many other dishes it has been brought to perfection by American cooks. A 
thoroughly-worked pie-crust generously filled with properly seasoned, good 
material and baked just right, takes high rank among home-made delicacies. 

934. TARTS. 

Take i/^ cupful water, % cupful lard, beaten white of 1 egg, 
3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful cream" tartar, 
and % teaspoonful soda; add flour enough to make moderately 
stiff dough. Sugar, flour and salt should be sifted together. 

Work paste well, cut out disks 3 inches across, two for each tart. 
Cut out center of one disk for each tart, moisten the ring on one 
side with water and fit it moist side down on the other disk. 
This must be done very rapidly with all the disks. Then put 

278 



DEPARTMENT 16 279 

quickly in hot oven. When done put in the cavity the filling 
such as jam, a boiled custard, stewed gooseberries, apple sauce, 
mince meat, forcemeat of chicken, or oysters. Tarts are also called 
patties or individual pies. 

935. NEAPOLITAINES. 

Make enough puflf paste for 1 pie ; roll into a sheet V^ inch 
thick and cut into strips 3 inches by li/^. Bake in quick oven. 
W,hen cold, spread half the strips with jam or jelly and put the 
others on top. Cover with frosting. 

936. SAND TART. 

Take Vi pound butter, 1 pound brown sugar, 3 eggs, 1 quart 
flour. Roll until thin ; slightly beat white of 1 egg and spread on 
dough, sprinkle with granulated sugar, chopped nuts and cinna- 
mon. 

937. CREAM PUFFS. 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 of sugar and 1 good pinch of 
salt on fire in 1 cup water, until butter is melted. Remove, add 
iy2 cups pastry flour and work to smooth cream. Then return 
to fire and stir rapidly until paste leaves sides of saucepan. Let 
cool few minutes, then beat in 3 eggs, one at a time, and continue 
to beat ten minutes longer. Then stand on ice one hour. Form 
cakes 2 inches or less in diameter in rows 3 inches apart in tin. 
The tins should be warmed, lightly brushed with lard or oil,, 
rubbed dry with clean paper, floured, and all superfluous flour 
shaken out again, before putting in the pufifs. The forming is 
done with pastry bag. Brush the top with beaten egg, and bake 
in very moderate heat about thirty-five minutes. When cooled, 
slit open at one side and fill inside with sweet cream filling or 
whipped cream. 

938. ECLAIRS. 

Proceed exactly as for cream puffs. Cakes should be about 
4 inches long and 1 inch wide in baking tin. When done and filled 
with cream filling, dip upper half in chocolate or vanilla icing. 



280 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

939. PIE CRUST. 

Take 1 quart flour and rub into it cupful butter or lard, add 
teaspoonful salt, and enough ice cold water to make stiff dough. 
Mix with as little handling as possible, and put on ice or in cool 
place, one hour or two before using; roll out enough to cover the 
bottom and inner sides of the pie-dish, and line the dish with it ; 
then roll paste for upper crust, of an equal thickness throughout 
and in proportion to the contents of the pie (^ inch about the 
average), fold the cover in two, lay it over one-half of the pie, 
and turn the other half over the remaining part; next press it 
slightly with the thumb round the rim, cut neatly the rim of the 
paste, form rather a thick edge, arid mark with a knife about %, 
inch apart, taking care to hold the knife in a slanting direction, 
which gives it a neat appearance ; then make two small holes on 
the top, and egg over the whole with a paste-brush, or use a little 
milk or water. Any small portion of paste remaining may be 
shaped to fancy designs, such as leaves or flowers, and placed as 
ornaments on top of pie. 

940. PIE CRUST— NO. 2. 

Take % cup of butter, % cup of lard, about 21/4 cups of pastry 
flour, a little salt, cut up the butter and lard in the flour, with a 
knife. Then pour on ice cold water enough to bring the mixture 
to the consistency of a stiff dough. Avoid kneading ; handle dough 
as little as possible. Sufficient for about two pies — average size. 



941. PUFF PIE CRUST. 

Make cream of y% pound butter and 1 pound flour ; add 1 egg, 
y^ wineglass of rum and enough cold water to make stiff dough. 
Roll out to % inch thickness, place J4 pound butter in center, fold 
corners of dough securely over butter and leave in cold place 
(on ice) half hour. Then roll to ^4 '"ch thickness, place 2 ozs. 
butter in center, fold dough as before, and leave in cold place for 



DEPARTMENT 16 281 

half hour. Repeat twice more, using 2 ozs. more of butter. Roll 
out to desired thickness, turn pie tin upside down over crust and 
cut around with knife or pie wheel; prick dough with fork here 
and there to prevent bulging and put at once in very hot oven, 
with the greatest heat at the bottom. Do not open oven for first 
five minutes. When-rolling the dough, care must be taken not to 
allow the butter to come through, and if dough sticks to rolling- 
pin or slab, put dough on ice at once with the slab. A little flour 
may be used to keep dough dry, but must be brushed off again 
carefully after each rolling. Always roll one way. Excellent for 
small tarts and patties. 

942. FRUIT PIES. 

Rub plates or tins on which the pies are to be baked with little 
butter ; roll crust out thin, line plate, and put in fruit, careful not 
to put in too much. Sweeten to taste, and if fruit is juicy, stir 
little flour through it before putting it in. Berries, cherries, goose- 
berries, rhubarb, plums, etc., do not need any seasoning, except 
sugar. Apple and peach pies are improved by placing pieces of 
butter on the fruit before putting on upper crust. The edge of 
under crust should be wet with little flour and water before put- 
ting on upper crust. Bake in moderate heat from forty to sixty 
minutes.. 

943. LEMON PIE. 

The juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 cupful sugar, yolks 
of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls flour ; mix all together and pour over 
cupful boiling water. Cook in double boiler until smooth. Make 
the pie with an under crust only, and bake until done ; then add a 
meringue made of 2 beaten whites of eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls 
white sugar; spread evenly over pie, put back into oven and 
brown slightly. 

944. LEMON PIE— NO. 2. 

Three eggs (yolks), 1 lemon (rind), 2 lemons (juice), 1 coffee 
cup sugar, butter size large walnut, 1 tablespoon (large) corn- 
starch mixed with 1 cup cold water; cook in double boiler, then 
take white of 2 eggs beaten stiff and beat into the cream when 



283 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

cooked. The whites of eggs make the filling light and fluffy. 
Pour into baked shell. For top take white of 3 eggs beaten 
stiff; add 2 tablespoons sugar and pinch of baking powder. 
Brown slightly. 

945. ORANGE PIE. 

To the juice and grated yellow rind of 1 orange add 1 cupful 
sugar, 1 of water, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour, 3 eggs, reserving the white of one for the meringue, 1 tea- 
spoonful tartaric acid. Mix together thoroughly and bake with 
under crust only. When done, spread over meringue made of the 
white of 1 egg and 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Put back 
into oven and brown slighly. 

946. APPLE PIE. 

Slice enough good apples to make pie one inch thick ; fill into 
lower crust, sprinkle with sugar, put pieces of butter here and 
there ; grate nutmeg over all, add little water, put on top crust 
(which should be made of puff paste) , slit top crust in two or three 
places and brush with beaten yolk of egg. 

947. APPLE CREAM PIE. 

One pint stewed apples, 1 cupful sugar, 1 of milk, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter, 2 beaten eggs, little grated nutmeg, and % 
glass of wine ; mix together and bake with two crusts. 

948. PIE A LA MARLBORO. 

Rub through sieve, 6 large tart apples, peeled and cored. Mix 
with the apple, 6 ozs. melted butter and the strained juice and 
grated rinds of 2 lemons. Then add yolks of 6 eggs beaten to a 
cream with 8 ozs. of sugar. Then add the white of 6 eggs, beaten 
to a froth. Bake one half hour in moderate oven in earthen dish, 
lined with pastry. 

949. PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs, add 1 cupful sugar and % cupful 
buiter, beat for three minutes, add finely grated pineapple, beat 



DEPARTMENT 16 283 

again, and then add the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bake in single 
crust and when done cover with the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff 
with tablespoonful of powdered sugar, return to oven and brown 
slightly. The whites may all be added to the pineapple, if pre- 
ferred. 

950. PRUNE PIE. 

Soak 1 pound seeded prunes over night, chop fine ; add 1 chop- 
ped lemon, 1 cup raisins and sugar to taste ; cinnamon if desired. 
Bake between two well prepared crusts. 

951. MINCE MEAT. 

One pound chopped apples, 1 pound stoned raisins, 1 pound 
minced suet, y^ pound mixed citron and "orange peel chopped 
fine, y^ oz. mixed spice, 1 pound sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt; mix 
all together thoroughly, add enough water to moisten, and cook 
one hour. Then add % pint good sweet cider or brandy. When 
making the pies, add little more sugar, if not sweet enough. 

Mince pie is rather indigestible and therefore does not agree 
with everybody, but it is delicious if carefully prepared, and when 
eaten sparingly will probably do no harm. Mince pie can be 
hot just as it comes from oven, or eaten ice cold. Moderately 
warm, however, is recommended. 

952. MINCE MEAT— NO. 2. 

Cook until tender, 4 pounds lean meat or tongues, chopped 
fine; add 3 pounds chopped suet, t pounds chopped apples, 8 
pounds currants, picked, washed and dried, 3 pounds stoned raisins 
1 pound citron chopped fine, 4 pounds brown sugar, 3 chopped 
lemons with peel, y^ oz. mace (outer hull nutmeg), 1 tablespoon- 
ful each, of cinnamon, allspice and cloves, 3 of salt, and 3 oranges 
chopped fine ; add enough cider to moisten and cook together for 
one hour. It is then ready for making pie. 

953. CUSTARD PIE. 

Line deep pie plate with pie crust, and fill with mixture ot'3 



384 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

beaten eggs, 1 pint milk, 3/3 cupful sugar ; flavor with little mace 
(outer hull nutmeg) and bake in medium hot oven. 

For cocoanut pie add to the custard, grated cocoanut. 

954. CUSTARD PIE— NO. 2. 

In double boiler heat (but do not boil) 3 cups milk. Add 
grated yellow rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar and 1 rounding table- 
spoonful cornstarch. When thick, remove from fire, stir about % 
the mixture slowly into 3 beaten eggs; pour back into double 
boiler, and return to fire for few minutes, but do not let boil. 
When partly cool add ^ teaspoon vanilla. Pour into deep crust 
and bake in good heat from below. 

955. PUMPKIN PIE. 

Cut up 1 small-sized pumpkin, removing seeds and soft parts. 
Cook without any water in covered stewpan, until soft, then un- 
cover and stir until little moisture is left. Press through colander 
and to 4 cupfuls of pulp add 1 cup best molasses, 2 of sugar and 
3 of milk, 1 dessertspoonful each of ginger, cinnamon and salt; 
sugar to taste. Mix thoroughly and when, cold work in 3 or 4 
well-beaten eggs. If too thin, stir in 1 tablespoonful or more of 
flour. Pour in deep pie crust and bake in slow oven about forty- 
five minutes. 

Squash pie is made the same way. 

956. GRANDMA'S PUMPKIN PIE. 

Cut pumpkin without paring, bake rind side down until ten- 
der ; scoop out pulp and squeeze through colander. For one pie, 
allow lJ/2 cups pumpkin, 1 cup boiling milk, 1 teaspoonful butter, 
Yt. cup sugar, Yz teaspoon salt, J4 teaspoon cinnamon, same of 
ginger, 1 ^^^ beaten separately, half bake crust, fill with pump- 
kin ; bake until it fills up. 

957. POTATO CREAM PIE. 

One pound of mashed potatoes, ^ pound white sugar, 6 ozs. 
butter, J4 cupful milk, 4 beaten eggs, and little brandy. Mix 
the warm butter with the potatoes, then sugar, milk, and flavoring, 



DEPARTMENT 16 285 

separate the eggs, and beat both yolks and whites quite light, stir 
into pie just before baking, and sift powdered sugar over pie when 
done. The potatoes should be white and mealy. 

958. SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Boil nice sweet potatoes, and when well done, peel, mash, and 
rub through colander. For every cupful of sweet potato use 1 
cupful milk, 1 egg, add sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg to taste. 
Bake with under crust only. 

959. BUTTER-CREAM PIE. 

Make rich crust and cover pie tin with it same as for custard 
pie. Beat together 1 egg, ^ cup white sugar, 1 tablespoonful 
flour, lump of butter size of egg, 1 cupful sweet cream and Yz 
cupful sweet milk ; pour into the crust and bake until nice brown. 



960. ONION PIE. 

When bread dough has risen, take enough of it to make under 
crust. Put in deep pie tin and fill with following. Cut onions 
enough into dice to fill soup plate, and put into stewpan on top of 
4 ozs. bacon cut in cubes (dice shape). Put on moderate fire, add 
1 tablespoonful salt, pinch of caraway seed, l^ cupful milk and 
stew until the onions have the appearance of glass, stirring often 
to prevent scorching. When cooked enough, spread on pie crust, 
pour over the onions custard made of 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful flour 
and 1 cupful of milk, and bake half hour. A favorite dish with 
the Germans who usually drink kuemmel with it. 

961. CURD PIE. 

Mix well 1 large cup of curd, drained off the whey, 1 beaten 
egg, scant Yz cup sugar, 1 tablespoonfyl well washed and dried 
currants, 1 teaspoonful butter, and little nutmeg and grated lemon 
rind. Pour into deep pie plate lined with crust dough and bake 
to golden brown in moderate oven. 



386 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

963. RHUBARB PIE, 

Stir together 1 cupful sugar, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 beaten 
egg, and 2 cupfuls rhubarb cut into small • pieces. Bake wjth 
two crusts, or with one crust and a meringue. A cupful of good, 
stoned dates may be strewn over bottom of pie crust, before piut- 
ting in rhubarb. 

963. CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Beat 3 eggs well with 4 tahlespnnnfnls ni siifrar and \}eiit FX'^'^- 
ually into them 1 pint of Scalding milk, in which pinch ofsoda 
has been dissolved. Put on fire, stir in l^ cup sweet grated 
chocolate' and when thoroughly blended add 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
Pour into pie plate lined with crust and bake. 

The whites of the eggs may be used for a meringue, if pre- 
ferred. Beat with ^4 cup of sugar to stiff froth, spread on the 
baked pie and return to oven for a few minutes. 

964. CREAM PIE. 

Scald 1 pint of milk in double boiler. Beat together the yolks 
of 2 eggs, % cupful sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls flour or corn starch ; 
stir into the scalding milk, and cook until thick, but do not let 
boil. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. Line pie plate with puff 
paste, and bake first ; then pour the boiled custard into the baked 
crust, spread over a meringue made of beaten whites of the eggs 
and 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar; put pie back in oven, and 
brown slightly. 

965. FLUFF PIE. 

Cream % cup granulated sugar, and 1/3 of butter. Add yolks 
of 3 eggs beaten until light and firm, % teaspoon vanilla extract, 
1 of lemon juice, pinch of salt. Line pie tin with paste and add 
the "fluff" then bake. Make meringue of 3 tablespoons sugar, 
pinch of salt and white of 3 eggs, spread over pie, return to oven 
and brown. 

968. SHOO FLY PIE. 

Into a pie tin lined with crust pour mixture of 1 cup of New 
Orleans molasses and 1 cup of hot water in which 1 teaspoonful 



DEPARTMENT 16 287 

of soda has been dissolved. Sprinkle into the liquor mixture of 
1 cup of brown sugar, butter the size of 1 egg, 2 cups of flour and 
cinnamon or nutmeg to taste. When soaked in, bake. 

967. LAYER CAKE FOR SHORTCAKE. 

Cream 14 cup of butter with 1 cup of sugar. Add the yolks of 
4 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 2 cups of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and the desired flavoring. Lastly add the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes, either in 
two pans of the same size, or in one pan and cut in two when 
cold, or put one-half of the dough in a pan, butter the top and 
place the other half on top. 

968. PEACH COBBLER. 

Make a pie-paste and butter a shallow baking-pan and line 
with the paste. Peel enough peaches to cover the bottom of the 
pan; put in and sift a little sugar over; cover with pie-paste to 
form upper crust, just moistening the edges and pressing them 
together; bake one-half hour. When done take out, cut into 
squares and sprinkle with sugar. Cream or dressing: 1 cup maple 
syrup and a little vinegar ; boil till it threads from a spoon (be- 
comes stringy), then add J^ cup seeded raisins chopped, stir until 
cold ; other fruits may be added. 

969, STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

While crust is baking^^^garefwHyTyic^'an^ wash strawberries, 
drain on cloth, put in bowl and sprinkle powdered sugar over. 
When crusts are done, butter richly, cover the lower one on 
buttered side with berries and lay on the upper crust, buttered 
side down. If three layers, butter both sides of the second. 
Other berries, or peaches may be used in the same way. 

Tablespoonful of whipped or ice cream placed on top, not only 
gives the shortcake a relish, but serves to ornament it. 

970. STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE— No. 2. 

Sift into mixing-pan, 1 quart flour, 2 tea«poonfuls baking pow- 
der and % teaspoonful salt, then mix in teacupful lard, and add 
1 teacupful sweet milk ; mix to consistency of pie-crust. Roll out 



288 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

about half of the mixture and cover baking-tin. Spread the layer 
thickly with soft butter and place over it rest of mixture rolled to 
fit. Bake in quick oven. Chop 2 quarts strawberries (or other 
fruit) and sweeten to taste. When crust is baked, lift off top 
layer, spread bottom layer with the fruit and replace top layer and 
serve. The remainder of the fruit should be served at table from 
a separate dish. 

If desired, the dough can be made and baked in the morning 
ready to fill with fruit when needed. Heat over crust in the 
oven before filling, or use cold if desired. 

971. LEMON SHORTCAKE. 

While the crust is baking, pare 2 lemons thinly with sharp 
knife ; save the rind. Then pare again, cutting and throwing away 
all white rind. Cut in half, take out seeds and put the pulp and 
yellow rind to boil with iy2 cups of sugar and 11/4 cups of water. 
Boil fifteen minutes, stir in 1^^ tablespoonfuls of fine cracker dust. 
Keep hot. Butter the layers of cake, spread with the lemon and 
serve hot. 

Orange shortcake is made in the same way, taking i^ a lemon, 
with 2 large oranges. 

972. BLACKBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Small berries, like blackbetries, blueberries and the like, may 
be mixed in with the batter, baked in a well greased pan, cut into 

squares, and served hot with butter. 

973. KISSES (MERINGUES). 

Beat to stiff froth 4 eggs, and then mix in lightly 1 cup sifted 
powdered sugar. Drop by spoonful on paper-lined tin, pressing 
down any point with wet knife blade ; dust with sifted sugar and 
dry, not bake, in slack oven. They should not turn yellow. After 
two hours, break in their bottom with finger, lay on tin upside 
down and let insides dry over night in warm place. 

The paste may be flavored with lemon rind or almond paste, if 
desired. 



•• ^M^ 




Department 17. 

THE prudent housekeeper will make it a rule to have cookies, fritters, 
doughnuts, or other small cakes on hand to serve between meals when 
necessary, qr even at a substantial meal. In cooking doughnuts precau- 
tion must be taken to have the fat smoldng-hot in the center so that the 
intense heat will at once form a crust on the doughnut or fried cake, thus 
preventing the doughnut from absorbing too much grease. If not sugared, 
can be kept in good condition for some days in a tight tin case or glass jar. 
Will prove excellent to carry in a lunch box or on a short trip. 



974. GINGER SNAPS. 

Mix well 1 cup each of sugar, molasses and butter or other 
shortening, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon ground ginger, 1 of baking soda 
and 4 cups flour. Roll out thin, cut with biscuit cutter, and bake 
in moderate heat fifteen to twenty minutes. 



975. GINGER COOKIES. 

One cupful of molasses, 1 of sugar, 1 of sour milk, 1 of butter 
or drippings, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tablespoonful ginger ; stir well 
together and add enough flour to make soft dough ; cut in round or 
square cakes, and bake in quick oven. 

976. SUGAR COOKIES. 

Rub to cream 2 cupfuls sugar and 1 of butter, add 1 cupful 
sweet milk, and 2 teaspoonfuls soda ; flour enough to roll without 
sticking. Cut in round or square cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

389 



390 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

977. SUGAR COOKIES— No. 2. 

Mix together % cupful butter, 1 cupful sugar, 1 egg, i/4 cupful 
sweet milk, % teaspoonful soda and little nutmeg or caramel and 
enough flour to roll. Roll very thin and bake in quick oven., 

978. MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Put into mixing bowl 2 cupfuls best New Orleans molasses, 
y2 cupful brown sugar, 1 cupful pork drippings, or i/^ each of lard 
and butter, 1 cupful cold water, 3 teaspoonfuls each of baking 
soda, ground cinnamon, and ginger. Stir all together, add enough 
flour to make a dough as soft as can be handled, roll out ^/^ inch 
thick, cut with large cookie cutter and bake in brisk oven. 

979. COOKIES MOTHER USED TO MAKE. 

Sift two quarts of flour into kneading bowl. Put in 2 eggs 
well beaten; 1 cup granulated sugar, 3/3 cup of butter or other 
shortening ; a dessert spoonful of caraway seed and 3/3 of a cup 
of sour milk into which a good teaspoonful of soda has been stir- 
red. As a rule butter will make the dough salty enough, but if 
!ard is used, a half teaspoonful of salt should be added. Mix with 
enough of the flour to make the dough sufficiently stiff to roll out. 
Bake in quick oven from four to six minutes. Will make about 
fifty cookies. Keep tightly covered. 

980. FUDGE COOKIES. 

Mix, in the order given, 4 well-beaten fresh eggs, 3 heaping 
cupfuls brown sugar, % cake of grated chocolate, 1 cupful 
chopped nuts, 1 scant cupful flour, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and lit- 
tle milk, if necessary. Cut in desired shape and bake twenty-five 
minutes in moderate heat. 

981. HAMLET COOKIES. 

Mix IV^ cupfuls sugar, 2/3 cup of butter, 1 cupful of chopped 
raisins, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful each of ground cloves, nutmeg and 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sour milk, and enough flour to roll out thin. 



DEPARTMENT 17 291 

982. OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, 3/3 cup butter, 1 teaspoon of soda in 6 table- 
spoonfuls qi sweet milk, 1 cup of raisins chopped, 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, 2 cups of Quaker Oats, 2 cups flour. Drop in the pan. 

983. OATMEAL COOKIES— NO. 2. 

Mix in following order, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 
teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 of soda, 1 of baking powder, }i cup 
raisins chopped, 2 cups rolled oats, and gradually add 2 cups flour. 
Flour the board, roll thin and bake in moderate oven. 

984. WHITE COOKIES. 

One cup butter, 2 of white sugar, Yz cup milk, 4 of flour, 2 
eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

985. ALMOND COOKIES. 

One-half pound butter, % pound of sugar, 1J4 pounds flour, 5 
beaten eggs, 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder, flavor with 
almond extract; mix to smooth dough; roll to i^ inch in thick- 
ness, brush with beaten white of egg and sprinkle thickly with 
chopped almonds ; bake in hot oven. 

986. CURRANT COOKIES. 

Beat one egg until light, then work in 1 cupful of sugar, then 
Vz cupful of milk, and stir in Va cupful of currants, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of lard and % a teaspoonful each of salt and cardamom or any 
other spice preferred. Sift one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder in flour enough to make a soft dough. Drop in the pan by 
the spoonful and bake. 

987. COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Stir together 2 cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful butter, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a little milk, and 1 cocoanut grated fine, 
add flour enough to roll, and bake in a hot oven. 



293 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

988. HERMITS. 

One cupful of butter, 1% cupfuls of brown sugar, 3 eggs, 1 
cupful of stoned and chopped raisins, 1 teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves 
to taste, and flour enough to roll out ; cut in squares and bake in 
a moderately quick oven. 

989. TEA CAKES. 

Take 3% cups of sugar, 1% cups butter, 5 pints of flour, 6 
eggs. Cream the butter and sugar together, break in 3 eggs, mix 
them and break in the other three, add one teaspoonful of baking 
powder to each pint of flour ; roll thin and bake. 

990. DOUGHNUTS. 

Beat 2 eggs and 1 cupful of sugar together, add 4 tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter or lard, 1 cupful sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 
pinch of salt, seasoning to suit taste and flour enough to make a 
soft dough ; roll out, cut in rings and fry in hot lard. 

As each doughnut is removed from the fat dip into boiling 
water to take off superfluous grease. 

991. DOUGHNUTS— NO. 2. 

Beat together 3 eggs, lYz cups each of sugar and milk, 5 des- 
sertspoonfuls of melted butter, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and work in enough flour to 
make dough stiflf enough to handle. Cut in rings and fry in hot 
lard. 

It is a good idea to throw a piece of peeled raw potato in the 
fat while cooking. It acts as a clarifier. 

992. RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Heat 1 quart of milk and when scalding hot stir in enough 
flour to make batter, a little thicker than for pancakes; let stand 
until cool, then stir in 1 cupful home made yeast or 1 cake of com- 



DEPARTMENT 17 393 

pressed yeast dissolved in warm water, and set in warm place 
to rise. When very light, beat together 4 eggs, 2 cupfuls sugar, 1 
cupful butter, 1 grated nutmeg and teaspoonful salt. Stir into 
batter and add enough flour to make dough like soft biscuit dough ; 
let rise again, and when light, roll out little over % inch thick, cut 
into rings with double cutter, let lie on board for One hour or more, 
then fry in hot lard, dip in boiling water, drain, and roll in pul- 
verized sugar. It is best to set at night and finish in morning. 

993. CRULLERS. 

Beat 1 egg, add 1 cupful sugar, ^/^ cupful cream, and 1^^ cup- 
fuls of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little warm 
water, grate in % nutmeg, mix in enough flour to make a soft 
dough, cut in bars 1 inch wide and % inch thick, twist and fry 
in hot lard. As each cruller is removed from the pot, dip into boil- 
ing water and drain. 

994. CRULLERS— NO. 2. 

Mix in stirring bowl 1 cup sugar and % cup butter, then add 
1 cupful of sweet milk, 1 beaten egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of baking 
powder, a little ground nutmeg and enough flour to make 
dough that can be rolled ; cut with cruller cutter and fry in hot 
lard. If too much fat is absorbed in frying, mix in little more flour. 

995. CREAM CRULLERS. 

One and two-thirds cupfuls fine granulated sugar, 2 scant cup- 
fuls sweet cream,' 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder and flour enough 
to roll out. Cut with cruller cutter and fry in hot lard. 

996. JUMBLES. 

Beat together 3 eggs, 1^4 cupfuls sugar, add cupful soft butter, 
3 tablespoonfuls sour milk, J^ teaspoonful soda, and flour enough 
to mix stiff ; when rolled out, sift sugar over top, cut in rings and 
bake in hot oven. 



294 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

997. JUMBLES— NO. 2. 

Beat together 1 egg, 2 cupfuls of sugar, 1 of butter and 1 of 
cream. Add 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in little warm water, 
a little grated nutmeg and enough flour to roll easily. Bake in 
rings in a hot oven. 

998. ALMOND JUMBLES. 

Stir 3 cupfuls sugar and % cupful butter to smooth cream, add 
6 well beaten eggs and beat for five minutes ; then add 1 small 
wineglassful of apricot juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, and 
3 cupfuls of flour. Mix thoroughly with large spoon, turn out on 
mixing board, work with the hands until smooth, roll out, sprinkle 
with chopped almonds pressing in slightly with rolling pin, dust 
a little graulated sugar over top, cut out rings, place in pan the 
bottom of which is covered with buttered paper, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

999. CUP CAKES. 

Rub % pound of butter and % of a pound of sugar to a cream ; 
stir in 5 beaten eggs, 1 cupful milk, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 
and % pound flour. When well mixed put in small molds or patty 
pans, filling about ^ full and bake in .brisk oven. 

1000. LADY FINGERS. 

Eight ozs. powdered sugar, l^ giU of water, 9 eggs, and 10 
ozs. flour ; separate the yolks from the whites, and put the whites 
in bowl on ice. Put sugar and water in sauce pan on fire, add 
the yolks and beat with an egg beater until the mixture is warm, 
not hot ; take the pan oflE the fire and beat for ten minutes, until 
cold, whip the whites to stiff froth and mix lightly with the other 
composition, then stir in the flour without beating. Make a cornu- 
copia of sheet of foolscap or muslin sewing up the side where it 
laps over, so that it will be "firm, cut off the lower point enough to 
make an opening as large as one's finger ; line baking pan with 
buttered paper, put the cake mixture in the cornucopia and 
squeeze out of the point in finger lengths upon the buttered paper. 



DEPARTMENT 17 295 

sift powdered sugar over and bake eight minutes, (golden yellow). 

1001. HOLIDAY COOKIES. 

One cup granulated sugar, 1 cup butter and lard mixed, % cup 
sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 1 egg, a pinch of salt, 14 tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix in flour enough to keep the 
dough from sticking to rolling pin and board, cut round or square, 
sprinkle with sugar and bake. Excellent for lunch, or, children 
returning from school. 

1002. VANITIES OR WAFERS. 

Beat 5 eggs, add 3 tablespoons sugar, 3 of sweet milk, pinch 
salt ; butter i/^ size of egg, flour enough to make stiff like noodles. 
Roll very thin, cut in squares, fry like doughnuts in hot lard. 
Sprinkle with pulverized sugar when cool. 

1003. PEANUT COOKIES. 

Dissolve % teaspoon soda in 14 cup sweet milk, and pour into 
1 cup sugar and % cup butter creamed, add 2 cups flour and beat 
until smooth. Spread thinly over bottom of baking pan or two 
biscuit tins and cover surface with crushed peanuts. Bake light 
brown in slow oven. Cut in squares while hot, but do not remove 
from pan until cool. 

1004. MACAROONS. 

Blanch (whiten by parboiling) 1 pound of almonds and pound 
to paste with 1 teaspoonful rose-water, adding, while pounding 
and little by little, 2% cups of powdered sugar. When smooth, 
beat in the whipped white of 4 eggs until perfectly blended. If 
not stiff enough to hold shape, add little flour. Drop on buttered 
strips of paper in tins and bake to light brown in slow oven. 

For cocoanut macaroons use equal quantities of grated cocoa- 
nut and powdered sugar and little milk or water. 

For chocolate macaroons take Yz pound of sugar and 3 eggs for 
every ^^ pound of grated chocolate, and bake fifteen minutes in 
moderate heat? 



296 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1005. JOLLY BOYS. 

Mix thoroughly IV^ pints of rye meal, % pint flour, i^ teacup- 
ful corn meal, 2 pinches cinnamon, little salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Add 1 egg, well beaten ; 3 tablespoonfuls each 
of molasses and sugar, and cold water enough to make thick bat- 
ter. Fry in hot lard heaping tablespoonful at a time until well 
browned. 

1006. POP-OVERS. 

Beat 3 eggs light, add 1 pint of milk, and gradually stir into 1 
pint of flour sifted with 1 level teaspoon of salt. Mix and beat six 
minutes ; put into gem pans, and bake from twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. 

1007. POP-OVERS— NO. 2. 

Sift 1 pint of flour with 1 level teaspoonful of salt. Beat 3 
eggs light, beat in 1 pint of milk and gradually stir into the flour. 
When all in, beat six minutes longer, put into gem pans and 
bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

1008. LITTLE CURRANT CAKES. 

Stir to cream 3 cupfuls sugar, and ^ cupful of butter, add 1 
cupful buttermilk, 4 beaten eggs, 5 cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful 
soda, and heaping cupful currants ; mix well and bake in buttered 
patty pans. 

1009. LEMON CAKES. 

One pound sugar, V^ pound butter, 1 pound and 3 ozs. of flour, 
3 eggs; the grating of 2 lemons; mix the butter, sugar, lemon 
grating and eggs together, mix in the flour, and set on ice or in 
cool place for two or three hours ; then roll out, cut in small round 
cakes, brush with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven. 

1010. TRANSPARENT PUFFS. 

Mix together 1 pint water, 2 ozs. butter, 6 ozs. corn starch, 
then beat in 5 whole eggs and the whites of five. Beat well and 
bake in patty pans or in small spoonfuls on buttered paper. 



DEPARTMENT 17 297 

1011. CORN DODGERS. 

Sift twice, 3 cupfuls of yellow cornmeal and 3 level teaspoon- 
fuls salt, put in pan, place in oven, heat thoroughly, but do not 
brown. When hot, put in stirring bowl and pour on enough warm 
water to moisten, then add enough boiling hot water to make bat- 
ter that will not run, add 1 tablespoonful sugar and beat hard for 
ten minutes. Have deep griddle or large iron frying-pan piping 
hot and grease with plenty of good drippings, put on the batter 
in cakes about ^ inch thick, spreading out with spoon ; fry to nice 
golden brown, turn but once and serve hot. Eat with butter and 
sugar. 

1012. FRITTER BATTER. 

Cream 2 eggs and 2 cups flour, beat in enough milk to make 
batter as for griddle cakes, then stir in level teaspoonful salt. 

1013. FRITTER BATTER— NO. 2. 

Make cream of 2 well beaten yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful 
good oil or melted butter, % cup milk or water, large pinch of 
salt, and then add enough flour to make good batter. Set aside for 
one or two hours and when ready to use, lightly stir in the whites 
of 2 eggs beaten stiff. 

For fruit fritters add teaspoonful sugar and little brandy, rum 
or cordial, if desired, with the flour; for clams and oysters, add 
lemon juice or vinegar, and substitute the clam or oyster liquor for 
the water or milk. 

1014. YEAST BATTER FOR FRITTERS. 

Dilute J4 oz. of compressed yeast with little warm milk, work 
in 3 ozs. flour, to make light dough. Let rise in warm place. Add 
6 oz. sifted flour, ll/^ ozs. melted butter, pinch of salt, little sugar, 
and enough milk to make smooth paste ; beat up well and let rise 
again in a warm place. 

1015. FRITTERS. 

Take 2 fresh beaten eggs, 1 pint of sweet milk, butter the 
size of 1 egg. and 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder ; mix with flour, 



^98 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

making as stiff as possible, stir with spoon. Drop small spoonfuls 
into boiling hot lard, fry to nice brown. 

1016. BREAD FRITTERS. 

Take stale bread or rolls. Cut or grate off the crusts, eut into 
nice slices 14 inch thick and put in dish. Beat up 3 yolks of eggs, 
add 1/^ pint of milk and 1 small glass of Maraschino (Dalmatian 
cherry cordial) or similar cordial (if desired), and % oz. sugar. 
Stir well and pour over the bread. After fifteen minutes drain 
bread and fry golden color in melted butter. Drain well on cloth 
br paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar and cinnamon and serve 
hot. 

1017. APPLE FRITTERS. 

Peel, core and slice crosswise the apples, sprinkle with sugar 
(and a little brandy, Maraschino or other cordial, if desired), let 
stand few minutes, dip. in batter, taking care that they are com- 
pletely coated, and fry in hot fat, two at a time, to a light golden 
color. Dry on blotting paper which is placed in the oven (the 
doors to be left open), sprinkle with sugar. If served with sauce, 
put the flavoring into the sauce. 

Peaches cut in halves rolled in pulverized stale cake, and the 
sections of seedless oranges rolled in sugar, are treated the same. 
Two or three parts of an orange may be put in one fritter. 



1018. WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Sift together 3 cups flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder and 1 
teaspoonful salt. Add 3 beaten eggs and 1 tablespoonful melted 
butter to 3 cups milk. Mix until perfectly smooth and thin 
enough to run freely. Pour from pitcher on well-greased hot 
griddle, cakes to be 4 or 5 inches diameter. As soon as the air 
holes begin to close up slowly, turn each cake over. Fry nice light 
brown. Serve piping hot with melted butter and maple syrup. 



DEPARTMENT 17 399 

1019. WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES— NO. 2. 

Early in the morning take 1 quart bread dough, mix into it the 
yolks and whites of 3 eggs, whipped separately to light froth, then 
add gradually 2 tablespoonfuls soft butter, 1 of sugar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful soda and enough warm milk to make good batter. Beat it well 
and let rise. Bake on hot, well-greased griddle to light brown, 
turning over. 

1020. FLANNEL CAKES. 

Take 3 eggs and stir into 1 pint sour milk, put in 1 even tea- 
spoonful soda and flour enough to make thin batter. Bake on hot 
greased griddle. 

1021. GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mix well 2 cupfuls Graham flour, 1 cupful wheat flour, 2 large 
teaspoonfuls baking powder and 1 teaspoonful salt. Stir in 3 
well-beaten eggs, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter or lard and 
enough sweet milk to make thin batter, 2 to 3 cups. Put on grid- 
dle immediately and serve hot with melted butter. 

1022. GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES— NO. 2. 

Mix together 1 pint Graham flour, l^ pint corn meal, ^4 pint 
flour, 2 tablespoonfuls molasses, % teaspoonful salt, 1 egg, 1 pint 
of buttermilk, 1 teaspoonful of soda. Bake on well-greased hot 
griddle. 

1023. FRUIT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Make a thin batter of 2 cups of fruit (raspberries, blackberries 
or green corn), 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 to 2 cups 
milk, sufficient flour and 1 spoonful of sugar. Fry on the griddle 
like other griddle cakes, butter while hot and serve. 

1024. BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Soak 1 pint stale bread in 1 pint sour milk over night. In 
morning mash fine with spoon; add another pint of milk, little 
salt, 2 teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in little water, and flour enough 
to make batter as thick as for ordinary griddle cakes. 



300 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1025. BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Mix well 2 cups buckwheat, 1 cup wheat flour, 3 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder and J/^ teaspoonful salt. Add water and milk 
enough gradually, stirring well to avoid lumps. Add 1 large table- 
spoonful molasses, cook on hot griddle and serve with melted 
butter and maple syrup or molasses. 

1026. BUCKWHEAT CAKES— NO. 2. 

Take 1 pint buttermilk, 1 pint water, ^^ cake yeast, a little salt, 
and stir in enough buckwheat flour to make batter; let rise over 
night, and next morning add 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses, and 1 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in little water. Bake on hot griddle 
well greased. 

1027. CORNMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Stir large cupful cornmeal into 1 pint boiling milk and take 
off fire. Let cool, add Yz cup wheat flour, % teaspoonful of salt 
and 2 scant tablespoonfuls home-made yeast. Let stand over 
night. Next morning dissolve % teaspoonful soda in warm water 
and add, with 1 egg lightly beaten and 1 dessertspoonful melted 
butter or lard. Let stand few minutes. Have griddle extra hot, 
grease well with half butter, half lard. Turn cakes over as soon 
as the bubbles rise all over ; when turned, lift them oflF as soon as 
puffing stops. Serve piping hot. 

1028. POTATO PANCAKES. 

Boil ^ dozen medium size potatoes in enough water to just 
cover and when well done mash and press through colander. 
When cool add 1 quart milk, 4 well beaten eggs and enough flour 
to make thin pancake batter, 1 teaspoonful salt and 2 of baking 
powder. Bake on hot griddle and serve at once. 

1029. POTATO PANCAKES— NO. 2. 

Pare and grate 6 large, raw potatoes, and mix with % cup flour, 
2 slices bread moistened with milk, 1 well beaten egg, V^ teaspoon- 
ful each of salt and soda dissolved in a little water. Fry as above. 



DEPARTMENT 17 301 

1030. GERMAN POTATO PANCAKES. 

Peel and wash 3 large raw potatoes. Cut away all bad parts. 
Cut in halves the long way, to make sure there is no rotten spot 
inside. Grate into large bowl. If very watery, pour off part of 
water. Stir in 1 large egg, pepper and salt. Mix thoroughly. 
Have 1 large or 2 small frying pans ready with butter sizzling. 
Take 1 large spoonful of batter, put on one side of pan, smooth 
down and in shape with the spoon, so it covers a little less than 
half the pan ; then fill the other half of pan, then other pan. By 
the time the second pan is full, the first cake is ready to be turned 
over with flat shovel. Add more butter to each pan after turning 
and shake the pans. Fry cakes rich brown. Put on hot platter. 
Serve with some sweet sauce (huckleberries are best) or with 
some preserve or strew with sugar. Grate % a small onion into 
the batter, if desired. 

1031. OATMEAL SCONES. 

Mix well 11/^ cupfuls oatmeal, % cupful flour, 1 teaspoonful 
baking powder and V^ teaspoonful salt. Heat 1% cupfuls of milk 
in double boiler until the water boils, then take off fire and stir 
in 1 dessertspoonful sugar and heaping teaspoonful butter. Pour 
the hot liquid into the meal and work quickly to soft dough with 
wooden spoon. Dredge % cupful well-washed and dried currants 
in flour and stir in. Roll out to thickness of % of an inch, cut 
out in rounds or squares, bake to nice brown, both sides, on un- 
greased soapstone griddle ; tear open while hot, butter well and 
serve. 

1032. POTATO SCONES. 

While mashing 4 large, mealy, hot, boiled potatoes, add % cup- 
ful of flour. Knead well, roll out to thickness of 1/4 inch, cut out 
in rounds or squares, and, while still warm, bake on hot griddle 
to nice brown, both sides, pricking the top with fork here and 
there. Serve hot in covered dish or in napkin. To be eaten well 
buttereH. 




Department 18. 



AT one time it was considered a part of the housewife or cook's duty to 
^ prepare enough fruit or preserves during the Fall, to last through the 
Winter and Spring seasons, but today there seems to be too much depen- 
dence placed upon prepared or canned fruits. It is encouraging, however, to 
know that there are still many good American housekeepers who esteem it 
their duty and a pleasure to supply the table with th^ best and most appetiz- 
ing home-made foods. Jellies, jams, marmalades, chow chows, piccalilliesi 
catsups, pickles and fruit vinegars should all be made at home, because it is 
not only cheaper, but the risk of using adulterated food is thus avoided. 



1033. CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Take 200 cucumbers rather under medium size ; wash and put 
in one or several stone jars. Put in porcelain or granite kettle 
2 gallons good cider vinegar, 1 cupful salt, 8 ozs. horseradish, 3 
ozs. of alum, 1 oz. each of mustard, allspice and cloves ; heat to- 
gether boiling hot, and pour over with green horseradish or cab- 
bage leaves. In one week's time drain off the vinegar, scald, and 
put back on the pickles, then cover with flannel cloth. 



302 



DEPARTMENT 18 303 

1034. CUCUMBER PICKLES— NO. 2. 

In one jar or cask put 1 part molasses and 2 parts soft water, 
cover with thin cloth and place in sun. At night cover with board. 
When sour (in about 4 weeks) set in cool place and begin to put 
in cucumbers, adding a little molasses each time cucumbers are 
added. When full, put in brown sugar (a gallon or more for 1 
barrel), some horseradish roots and small piece of alum. The 
vinegar can be strained and used again the following year. 



1035. RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pare and cut large, ripe cucumbers, and scrape out seeds. Put 
pieces in stone jar, cover with salted water, let stand for day or 
two, changing water once or twice; take out, and drain; then let 
stand in fresh water for few hours; then boil in vinegar until 
tender ; skim out carefully, and put in stone jar. Make syrup of 
1 quart of vinegar, 4 pounds sugar, or molasses, 1 ounce of cassia 
buds, and 1 tablespoonful ground cinnamon; boil until syrup is 
clear, and pour over cucumbers. This amount of syrup is enough 
for 3 quarts of boiled cucumbers. 



1036. SALT PICKLES. 

Large green cucumbers too young to have seeds, are washed 
clean and laid in hard water for twenty-four hours. Pick and 
wash carefully sufficient quantity of dill, horseradish roots, sour 
cherry leaves, leaves, tendrils and unripe grapes of the vine, bay 
leaves, pepper and cloves. It is not necessary to have them all. 
Pack the herbs and spices in one tight, thoroughly cleaned cask. 
Pack at bottom and top of the cask, and between the layers of cu- 
cumbers. Pack as close as possible and cover with cold water 
in which salt has been dissolved, about i/^ pound for every gallon 
of water. Let the cooper close the cask. In one of the heads 
there should be a spigot hole for adding salt water from time to 
time. Place the cask in cellar and turn over once a week. After 
three months one head is removed and round slab or board 
weighted down with stone placed on top, to keep the cucumbers 



304 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

under water. Any scum forming on surface must be removed 
and the cask kept clean. 

1037. CHOW CHOW. 

Chop 1 peck green tomatoes fine. Sprinkle 1 large cupful salt 
over, and let stand over night. In morning put in sieve and drain ; 
then chop fine 6 large green peppers, 6 large onions, 6 or 8 stalks 
of celery, and put in porcelain kettle with chopped tomato ; put in 
with them 2 teaspoonfuls each of ground mustard, cinnamon and 
cloves, y2 teaspoonful mace (outer hull nutmeg) 2 pounds brown 
sugar, and enough vinegar to cover. Simmer for two hours, stir- 
ring occasionally. Put up in glass or stone jars. 

1038. SWEET CHOW CHOW. 

One gallon cabbage, 2 quarts green tomatoes, 1 pint onions, 
1/4 cup green peppers ; chop fine and add IV^ pounds sugar, 1 table- 
spoon mustard, 1 tablespoon ginger, 2 tablespoons cloves, 2 table- 
spoons salt, 3 tablespoons cinnamon. Put all in 3 quarts vinegar 
and boil until cabbage is tender. 

1039. SWEET CHOW CHOW— NO. 2. 

Highly recommended. Cut into small pieces 2 quarts onions, 
2 quarts gherkins, 2 heads cauliflower and 6 green peppers. Put 
into stone jar, sprinkle % cup salt or more over, pour enough 
boiling water to cover, put the lid on tightly and let stand over 
night. Drain next day. Mix ^ pound dry mustard and Yz oz. 
of turmeric (East Indian spice) in a little cold vinegar, stir 1 cup 
of flour into small quantity of water and put both mixtures in 
2 quarts of best vinegar on fire. As soon as it boils, add vege- 
tables. When it is boiling again, remove from fire, put in glass 
jars and seal tightly. Put away for two months. If pearl onions 
are used, put in whole. 

1040. MARTHA'S MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Take 24 small whole cucumbers, (or if large, cut small), 1 
quart small onions, 2 heads cauliflower, cut small, 8 green peppers, 



DEPARTMENT 18 305 

cut fine without seeds, 2 quarts of fine chopped green tomatoes ; 
put in salt and water and let stand over night. Scald up in same 
water, drain and mix with the following : 2}^ quarts cider vine- 
gar, 3 cups sugar, % cup flour, yi pound mustard. Mix ingredi- 
ents with part of the cold vinegar. Have remainder of vinegar 
boiling, then pour on and let boil long enough to cook the flour, 
turn over the pickles and let come to a boil. Considered extra fine. 

1041. MUSTARD PICKLES— NO. 2. 

For a 3 gallon crock use 13 ozs. each of salt and pearl onions, 
the size of small cherries, 6 ozs. horse radish root cut to pieces, 
and 6 ozs. of mustard seed, 1 oz. of soaked and scraped ginger- 
root, % oz, pepper and a few cloves without round heads. Pare 
cucumbers that have begun to turn yellow. Cut in half length- 
wise, remove with silver spoon the seeds and soft parts, sprinkle 
with salt and let stand over night. Drain and dry, cut in strips 
size of a finger, put in crock and cover with good cold vinegar. 
Cover lightly and let stand for one or two weeks. Then boil up 
vinegar and remove all scum. Put cucumbers and other in- 
gredients in crock in layers and add the vinegar when cold. To 
hold the cucumbers under the vinegar, it is well to fill a circular 
bag with mustard seed, the size of the crock and lay on top. Tie 
strong paper firmly over crock and put in cool place for one 
month. 

1042. PICKLED GHERKINS. 

Put the gherkins in salt and water for three or four days, take 
out, wipe perfectly dry, and put into stone jar. Boil sufficient 
vinegar to cover for ten minutes and add spices to taste. Pour 
it over the gherkins, cover with vine leaves, put plate on top and 
set near the fire, over night. Next day drain off vinegar, boil up 
again, and pour hot over cucumbers. Cover with fresh leaves, 
and let stand till quite cold. Seal hermetically (air-tight) and put 
away for one month. 

1043. BEETS AND CABBAGE PICKLE. 

One quart each of boiled beets and raw cabbage, both chopped 



306 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

fine, 1 cup grated horseradish, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful each 
of salt and pepper, i/^ teaspoonful red pepper. Mix well, cover 
with cold vinegar and put in air-tight glass jars. 

1044. SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

Take 1 peck green tomatoes, peel, slice and sprinkle salt be- 
tween each layer, turn a heavy plate over them and let stand till 
morning. To 1 quart vinegar add 2 pounds sugar, 1 oz. whole 
cloves, 1 oz. stick cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful mustard seed, 
sprinkle of mace; bring to scalding heat. Put tomatoes in col- 
ander to drain off all liquid. Then add to the vinegar and simmer 
till tender, or about'two hours. 



1045. SWEET TOMATO PICKLE— NO. 2. 

One-half dozen small onions, 15 pounds green tomatoes sliced, 
1 small cup salt ; mix and let stand twenty-four hours, then drain 
and boil in weak vinegar; add little alum to keep color and boil 
until tender ; drain vinegar off and add 1 quart good cider vinegar, 
4% pounds light brown sugar (Coffee A), 3 large red peppers 
cut in small pieces and add cloves and cinnamon to taste. Let 
come to boil, bottle and seal. 



1046. SWEET TOMATO PICKLE— NO. 3. 

Slice Vs bushel green tomatoes thin as possible, let stand in 
strong salt and water twenty-four hours ; take out carefully, put 
in fresh cold water, and let stand for twelve hours ; take out and 
drain ; put on more cold water, and let stand for twelve hours 
longer ; take out and drain, and boil in fresh water until tender 
enough to cut easily with fork or spoon ; take out carefully, and 
drain. Make syrup of % gallon vinegar, 8 pounds brown sugar, 
% tablespoonful of different kinds of spice, 1 tablespoonful whole 
mustard seed. Let all boil together ten minutes; then put in 
tomatoes 1 quart at one time, and boil fifteen minutes ; skim out 
carefully, and put in stone jar; put more tomatoes in vinegar, 



DEPARTMENT 18 307 

and proceed as before until all are cooked; then boil down the 
syrup a few minutes, and pour over the tomatoes. Delicious, and 
will keep for months. 

1047. RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

Weigh up 7 pounds firm, medium sized tomatoes ; take ofiE 
skins by scalding ; stick 6 or 8 whole cloves in each one, and place 
in jar. Put 2 quarts good cider vinegar in preserving kettle, add 
5 pounds brown sugar, few sticks of cinnamon, and 1 tablespoon- 
ful bruised ginger root; let all boil fifteen minutes; then pour 
boiling hot over tomatoes ; cover with plate, and put weight on to 
keep fruit under the vinegar. 

1048. TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Cut 6 lemons in slices, and boil until tender in 3 pints of water ; 
then take the lemons out with a skimmer, put into the water 10 
pounds sugar, and let boil until dissolved. Then add 10 pounds 
peeled and sliced tomatoes, boil one-half hour, put back lemons, 
and boil ten or fifteen minutes longer. Put in jars, and cover 
closely. Partly ripe tomatoes are better than ripe ones for this 
kind of preserve. A little ginger root boiled with the lemons 
improves the flavor. 

1049. TOMATO CHUTNEY. 

Cut up and peel 13 large tomatoes, 6 onions chopped fine, I 
cup vinegar, 1 of sugar, handful rasins, chopped fine, salt to taste, 
Yz teaspoon cayenne, % teaspoon white pepper. Boil one hour 
and a half; bottle or put in stone jar. 

1050. SPICED TOMATOES. 

Put in porcelain kettle 1 pint good cider vinegar, 4 pounds 
sugar, V2 oz. of cloves, and 1 oz. cinnamon in thin muslin bag and 
let boil until clear, then add 7 pounds of whole tomatoes (peeled) 
and boil two hours. Put in stone jar. Will keep for months. 



308 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1051. TOMATO CATSUP. 

Scald and peel ripe tomatoes, cook until soft, and press through 
sieve. To 1 gallon of tomato add 1 pint vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
salt, 2 tablespoonfuls mustard, 1 of allspice, 1 of cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoonful black pepper, 1 of ground cloves, and 1 red pepper pod 
without seeds. Simmer one hour or more, put in jugs or bottles 
while hot and cork tight. 

1052. CHILI SAUCE. 

Five large onions, 8 green peppers, 30 ripe tomatoes, all chop- 
ped fine; add 5 tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 of salt, and 8 cupfuls vine- 
gar ; mix together, and boil two and one-half hours. Put in glass 
jars. 

1053. CHILI SAUCE— NO. 2. 

Scald and peel 18 ripe tomatoes and boil with 6 onions and 3 
green peppers until tender, in own juice. Then add 2^4 cups 
vinegar, 1 cup sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 teaspoonful each of 
nutmeg, allspice and cinnamon, i/^ teaspoonful cloves, and cook 
one hour and a half. 

1054. GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Take 8 pounds partly ripe gooseberries, 4 pounds sugar, a little 
over 1 pint good cider vinegar, and 2 ozs. each of ground cinnamon, 
cloves and 1 grated nutmeg, tied in muslin bag. Put all together 
in granite or porcelain kettle, bring to boil and then let simmer 
for three or four hours. Put up in air-tight glass jars. 

1055. CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Pare and cut in halves 1 dozen large ripe cucumbers and 
scrape out seeds. Grate fine and put in muslin bag, hang up and 
let drain over night. Chop 3 medium sized onions, 3 green pep- 
pers, out of which the seeds have been taken, and mix with the 
substance left in the bag. Add 1 tablespoonful salt and pour 
over all 1 quart of best cider vinegar. Put up in glass jars or 
bottles. 



DEPARTMENT 18 309 

1056. CUCUMBER CATSUP— NO. 2. 

Pare and grate 1 dozen fresh medium size cucumbers, add 3 
onions chopped fine, season with 3 level tablespoonfuls of salt, 3 
teaspoonfuls white pepper and li/^ pints white wine vinegar; 
mix well and put up in air-tight glass jars or bottles. 

1057. PLUM CATSUP. 

Put in preserving kettle 6 pounds of plums, 3% pounds sugar, 
and 1 quart vinegar ; boil until plums are reduced to pulp ; cool 
and press through sieve, then add cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and 
allspice to taste. Put up in glass jelly cups. 

1058. GRAPE CATSUP. 

To five pounds of grapes, boiled to pulp and sifted, add 2 
pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 1 tablespoonful each of cinnamon, 
cloves, allspice, and 1 teaspoonful pepper. Boil two hours and 
put up in glass. 

1059. PICALILLI. 

Chop fine 1 peck green tomatoes, 2 small heads of cabbage, 
3 green peppers, 4 onions, 6 large cucumbers; put all in large 
stone jar, and sprinkle over 1 teacupful salt and let stand over 
night. Next morning drain and scald in 1 quart vinegar and 2 
quarts water; take out with skimmer, and drain in sieve. Pour 
over 2 quarts vinegar, 1 pound of sugar, % pound white mustard 
seed, 2 tablespoonfuls ground pepper, 2 of cinnamon, 2 of ginger, 
1 of allspice and i/^ teaspoonful red pepper, and le.t all boil together 
thirty minutes, stirring often to avoid burning. Put up in glass or 
stone jars. 

1060. PICKLED NASTURTIUMS. 
(Good Substitute for Capers.) 

Use to each pint of vinegar 1 oz. salt and 6 peppercorns. 
Gather the nasturtium pods on a dry day, and wipe clean with 
cloth; put in dry glass bottle, with vinegar, salt and pepper, in 
the above proportions. If enough cannot be found ripe to fill a 



310 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

bottle, cork up what is on hand until more have been gathered. 
Cork up the bottles, and seal the tops. Ready for use in about four 
to six weeks. 

1061. BLACKBERRY PICKLE, 

Boil 7 pounds of blackberries with 5 pounds white sugar and 
1 pint best cider vinegar, until the berries are done. Skim out 
berries, boil juice until thick as syrup, pour over the berries, cover 
and keep in cool (not cold) place. Will keep several months with- 
out being sealed. 

1062. CURRY SAUCE. 

Pare and chop 1 dozen large cucumbers and 6 large onions, 
put in separate vessels, salt and let stand for one hour. Take out 
of salt, squeeze, and mix with 6 large, ripe tomatoes, peeled and 
chopped. Add 1 scant teaspoonful each of cayenne pepper, celery 
seed and curry powder ; also 3 tablespoonfuls each of sugar and 
com meal. Cover with vinegar, let come to boil and cook about 
one-half hour. Put in glass jars and seal tight. 

1063. FRENCH PICKLE, 

Slice 1 peck green tomatoes, 3 large onions and about 6 green 
sweet peppers, cover with 3 pints vinegar mixed with 1 quart 
water; boil five minutes, stirring frequently; then strain, throw 
away the vinegar. Take 2 quarts fresh vinegar, 2 cupfuls brown 
sugar, 1 tablespoonful each of ground cloves, cinnamon and all- 
spice ; 1 cupful mustard made smooth with some of the vinegar, 
and 3 tablespoonfuls of salt; boil together and pour over the 
pickle. 

1064. PUMPKIN OR MELON PRESERVES. 

Pare thick watermelon or pumpkin rind, and cut in strips 
about 3 inches long, and % inch thick, five pounds in all, and let 
stand in cold water for two or three hours. Make syrup of 5 
pounds best white sugar, and 2 quarts water, squeeze in juice of 
6 lemons, and add grated rind of 3; boil fifteen minutes, then 



DEPARTMENT 18 311 

strain ; heat again and stir in beaten white of 1 egg, and skim off 
as it rises ; the syrup should be of a nice lemon color, and clear as 
amber; put in the fruit, which should be drained and dry, and 
cook until tender. Skim out the fruit carefully, and add to the 
syrup 1 pound of best raisins, boil for two or three minutes, and 
pour over fruit. Great care must be taken to remove every 
particle of stem from the raisins and to wash thoroughly, so there 
will be no dark specks in the clear syrup. 

The raisins may be omitted. A little ginger gives a flavor 
well liked by many. 

1065. PICKLED APPLES. 

Peel, quarter, and core enough sweet apples to make five 
pounds ; put in stewpan, cover with water and cook until tender ; 
lift out carefully with skimmer and put on earthen dish. Make 
syrup of 3 pounds sugar, and 1 pint vinegar, add some stick cin- 
namon, and few cloves; boil until clear, put in the apples and 
cook slowly for twenty or thirty minutes. Put in glass cans. 



1066. SPICED APPLES. 

Cut peeled apples into eighths or quarters, and cook tender in 
a syrup of equal parts water, vinegar and sugar, to which has 
been added a few whole cloves, a few pieces of cinnamon and 
a little cayenne pepper. Remove the apples with skimmer, boil 
syrup until thick and pour over the fruit. Serve cold. A fine 
relish. 

1067. GINGER PEARS. 

Peel 8 pounds pears ; take 8 pounds sugar, % pound preserved 
ginger and 4 lemons. Chop pears and ginger together, make 
syrup of sugar and 1 quart of water ; add ginger and pears. Boil 
one hour. Boil lemons until tender, peel and chop pulp, remov- 
ing stringy parts, add to mixture and boil one hour or until clear, 
then put in jelly glasses and cover air-tight. 



313 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1068. PICKLED PEARS. 

Peel the pears and weigh. Allow 1 pint of vinegar and 4 
pounds sugar for every 7 pounds fruit. Put pears and sugar in 
kettle in alternate layers, pour in water and bring slowly to boil. 
Add the vinegar, also cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg or mace to 
taste. Bring to boil, again, simmer five minutes, take the pears 
out very carefully and place on dishes. Boil syrup until thick, 
place pears in heated jars, fill with boiling syrup to overflowing 
and seal. The spices may be put in small bags and removed when 
pears are cooked. 

1069. PICKLED STRING BEANS. 

String the beans, boil until tender in plenty of slightly salted 
water, and pack into heated jars. Fill with spiced vinegar (see 
preceding recipe), and seal. 

1070. ' TO CAN PEAS. 

Cook good, fresh peas in clear water until tender; take out 
and fill into glass jars, adding just enough water to cover; put 
on covers but do not screw tight. Place 2 small sticks across 
bottom of a wash boiler, lay small board on them, set in cans, 
and fill the boiler with water almost to the tops of the cans. Put 
over fire, boil three minutes, then take out, screw down lids 
tight, and set away. When cold will need a little more tighten- 
ing. Keep in a cool, dark place. 

1071. SYRUP FOR SPICED FRUIT. 

■For 7 pounds of fruit allow 1 pint of vinegar and 3% pounds 
of sugar. Tie cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, in thin muslin bag 
and boil in the syrup. Pears, peaches, cherries, plums, grapes, 
may all be preserved in this syrup. Gives satisfaction invariably. 

1072. SPICED CHERRIES. 

Six pounds sugar, granulated ; 2 tablespoonfuls ground cinna- 
mon, tied in -a bag ; 1 scant tablespoonful mace, whole ; 1 table- 



DEPARTMENT 18 313 

spoonful cloves, whole; 1 pint vinegar; 8 pounds fruit, stoned. 
Boil fruit and sugar twenty minutes, take out fruit and boil syrup. 



1073. VINEGAR. 

Put 1 quart molasses and 1 pint of yeast with 1 gallon of soft 
water in open cask exposed to the sun. Place a thin piece of cloth 
over burighole. At night and when it rains cover the cask. Fer- 
mentation will stop in twenty to twenty-five days, when the vin- 
egar is ready for use. 

In the same way cider can be used instead of ^yater, making 
vinegar in a week. 



1074. SYRUP OF APPLE PARINGS. 

A delicious syrup can be made of the parings of apples and of 
apples not quite good enough to cook, but otherwise in fair con- 
dition. 

Cut the apples in small pieces, remove all decayed parts with 
the cores, wash well and put on fire in large pot with ample cold 
water. When soft (about twenty-five minutes of boiling) pass 
'through a jelly-bag, squeezing hard. Let stand twenty-four hours. 
Add 1 pound sugar for every quart of liquid and boil until it turns 
a rich color and drops slowly from the spoon. While boiling, 
add peel of 1 lemon and few pieces of cinnamon. Set to cool and 
fill in glass jars. Will keep six rnonths or one year. Experience 
and judgment will teach how thick the syrup should be. 

Parings alone will do just as well, fresh or dry. Save up all 
apple parings. Put on clean paper under the stove one day, then 
dry in airy place, and keep in paper bags until there is enough 
for making syrup. 

1075. PRESERVING SMALL FRUIT. 

Place jars in hot water, fill with well washed and dried raw 
berries or grapes, and pour on boiling stiff syrup. Small quanti- 
ties can be used. 



314 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1076. FRUIT JELLIES. 

Boil fruit with as little water as possible, and squeeze in 
jelly bag. Allow 1 pound sugar to 1 pint of juice, and boil until 
it jellies, which is usually in fifteen or twenty minutes. Pour 
in cans or glasses, and leave uncovered until cold. If the jelly 
fails to thicken sufficiently, set the glasses in the sun for two or 
three days, leaving off the covers. 

1077. JAMS. 

Crush the fruit with a potato masher, and allow 1 pound of 
sugar to 1 pint of the crushed fruit. Bring to boil slowly to pre- 
vent scorching, and boil until thick and clear. Put up in glass. 

1078. INDIA JAM. 

Eight pounds pears chopped coarse, 8 pounds sugar, 4 lemons 
chopped fine, % pound preserved ginger chopped. Mix and let 
stand over night. Cook slowly. 

Equal quantities of rhubarb and raspberries or blackberries, 
with J4 pound of sugar for every pound of fruit make an economi- 
cal, but delicious jam. 

1079. QUINCES. 

Pare and quarter the fruit, cover with water and boil. When 
tender take out, and to each pound of quinces add 1 pound white 
sugar; let stand with sugar until next day, when the syrup will 
be light and clear as amber; boil twenty minutes. 

The water they were boiled in may be used to make a jelly 
of the parings ; add 1 pound of white sugar to each pint of juice, 
and boil half an hour. 

1080. STRAWBERRIES. 

Put equal quantities of strawberries and sugar in granite- 
ware saucepan, place on fire half an hour later, bring to boil 
quickly and simmer ten minutes. Seal hermetically (air-tight) in 
glass jars and set in the sun for three days. 



DEPARTMENT 18 315 

1081. GARDEN RASPBERRIES. 

Fill glass jars full of fruit ; make syrup with 1 cup sugar to 2 
cups of water. After boiling pour over fruit and screw lids on 
tight; then place in boiler in cold water coming up over jars. 
Let water come to boil ; take jars out, one at a time, open and fill 
with boiling water ; screw on covers air tight. Keep in dry, dark 
place. 

1082. CRABAPPLES. 

For 6 pounds of fruit make a syrup of 1 pint water and 3 
pounds sugar. When syrup boils, drop in crabapples, and when 
done, put apples into jars and fill up with syrup. 



1083. APPLE BUTTER. 

Boil 10 gallons sweet apple cider in copper kettle until re- 
duced to 5 gallons, then put in, little by little, 3 pecks peeled and 
quartered good cooking apples. Stir constantly and boil from 
four to five hours. Then add 10 pounds of white sugar and 5 
ozs. ground cinnamon. When of the desired consistency, put in 
glass jars or crocks. Will keep almost indefinitely. 

Peach butter is made in the same way. 



1084. TOMATO BUTTER. 

Boil 10 pounds tomatoes until soft ; strain to remove the seeds 
and skins. Return to the fire with 4 pounds sugar, lYz pints of 
vinegar, 1% ozs. ground cinnamon, % oz. ground cloves, and sim- 
mer until thick. Seal in glass jars or crocks. 

1085. PEACH BUTTER. 

Peel and slice enough peaches to thicken three quarts of cider 
and boil steadily until you have a soft pulp. Stir frequently. 
Take from the fire, set aside until cold, put back over the fire and 
stew until brown and thick. Pack in stone jars. 



;]1G DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1086. BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Scald and skin a peck of fine peaches not too ripe. Weigh 
and allow a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Make a 
syrup with 2/3 of a cupful of water to each pound of sugar. Let 
the syrup come to a boil, skim and when clear put in the fruit and 
cook until they can be pierced with a straw ; then take out one 
at a time, and place carefully in a jar. Let the syrup boil a few 
minutes, then put in 2 quarts of brandy, boil five minutes longer, 
then pour over the peaches. Put up in glass jars. 



1087. ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Slice very thin, 6 oranges and V/o grape fruit, omitting only 
the seeds; add 3 pints cold water to every pound; stand over 
night, boil slowly until peel can be cut against side of kettle. 
After boiling, let stand until next day, then measure and add 1 
pint sugar to 1 pint fruit. Cook slow'ly until quite thick and 
clear. If cooked in one kettle, will take three or four hours; 
makes 24 glasses. 



1088. ORANGE MARMALADE— NO. 2. 

Make orange marmalade in February or March, when the 
fruit is fresh and full of juice. 

Select 6 fine navel oranges. Wash and dry with soft cloth. 
Trim off ends. Cut in two lengthwise and slice as thin as pos- 
sible, using sharp steel knife, cutting from rind to center of 
orange. 

When done, weigh, and to each pound of fruit add 1 quart 
cold water. Do this in morning, cover, and set away until next 
morning. Following morning place on stove, bring to boil, and 
continue to boil for forty minutes, removing any scum that may 
arise. Remove from fire and set away for twenty-four hours. 

On the third morning return to stove, and bring again to boil. 
Weigh once more. And to each pound of fruit add 1 pound best 



DEPARTMENT 18 317 

granulated (cane) sugar. Boil from fifty to sixty minutes. Put 
at once into jelly tumblers. In three days seal the tumblers with 
thin foreign note paper (onion skin) cut to fit, moistening edges 
with white of 1 egg. 

The juice of 1^ lemons should be added on the third morn- 
ing, when fruit is weighed for the sugar. 

1089. ORANGE MARMALADE— NO. 3. 

Slice 6 oranges and 3 lemons with skins on. To each pint 
of the fruit add li/^ pints cold water. Boil thirty minutes. Stand 
twenty-four hours. Measure again, add 1^ pounds sugar to each 
pint of fruit. Boil thirty minutes. Pour in jelly glasses. 

1090. ORANGE MARMALADE— NO. 4. 

Peel 2 dozen sour oranges, cut in halves across the sections, 
take out the seeds and weigh. Take 1 pound of sugar for every 
pound of fruit, and put in a preserving kettle with enough water 
to dissolve. Bring to a boil slowly and boil ten or fifteen rninutes. 
Grate half a cupful of the yellow part of the orange peel, and put 
in with the orange. Boil fifteen minutes longer, and put in glass 
jars. 

1091. APPLE MARMALADE. 

Cook in a little water a peck of sour, juicy apples, not quite 
ripe, and the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons. When tender, 
rub through a sieve, weigh, and add the same quantity of sugar. 
Boil fifteen minutes and fill into glasses or jars. 

1092. ALMOND MARMALADE. 

Blanch and mince % pound of almonds. Cut in two 2 lemons, 
remove the seeds, and chop fine. Add to 2 pounds of rhubarb, 3, 
pounds of sugar and 1 cup of water, and boil a little longer than 
one hour. Put in jelly glasses and cover with melted parafine. 

Any other nuts may be used in the same way. 




Department 19. 

THIS department contains inexpensive recipes best adapted for quick prepa- 
ration, both for the usual meals and extra lunches between or after the 
regular hours; also many dishes that could not well be classified in any 
particular department. Cold meats or any articles of food left over and 
intended for what is sometimes called a *'picked-up-meal" should not be 
placed where flies and other insects may get at them, or where odors from 
uncooked meats or vegetables might impart to them any disagreeable flavor. 

1093. NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER. 

For six persons. Wash 2 pounds each of salt pork and corned 
beef, put on fire in separate kettles, boil slowly one hour; take 
meat out and pour liquor from one kettle into the other ; put fresh 
water into empty kettle, put in bqth pieces of meat and boil two 
hours longer. Skim nearly all fat off liquor in which meat was 
first boHed, taste, if too salt for the vegetables, pour out some and 
add fresh water. Cut in quarters 1 small cabbage, 1 large or 2 
small turnips, 3 or 4 carrots, and boil all together in the liquor. 
After half hour add 6 or 8 peeled potatoes and boil half hour 
longer, or until done. Put the meats on platter, drain vegetables 
and serve in vegetable dish. Prepared mustard, grated horse- 
radish and pickled beets go well with this dish. 

1094. POTTED MEAT. 

Cut nice lean beef or veal in small squares, put in kettle, cover 
with water, add little salt and boil until tender. When done take 
out meat and put in earthen or stone dish. Season stock with 



318 



DEPARTMENT 19 319 

salt and pepper, small lump of butter, 1 stick of cinnamon and 1 
dozen peppercorns ; add J4 box gelatine dissolved in cold water ; 
boil twenty or thirty minutes, strain, and pour over meat, mix 
thoroughly, cover with plate, put on weight and set away. When 
cold, cut in slices, garnish with parsley or celery, and serve. 
Nice for luncheon or supper. 

1095. CORNED BEEF HASH. 

Take 1}^ lbs. to 1^ lbs. of the meat left over from supper, and 
IJ^ times as much of cold boiled potatoes (skins removed when 
cold) ; 1 onion (or enough to flavor) and put into bowl ; chop all to 
desired fineness, salt and pepper to taste ; put into frying pan, 
butter the- size of an egg, let it just melt then place the mixture 
into the pan and cover tightly for a few minutes. Remove cover 
and brown slightly (5 to 10 minutes). Corned beef for supper — 
Take four or five lbs., wash, put into cold water, boil slowly 3 or 
4 hours (or until cooked enough) remove from kettle and let get 
cold. Will be enough for six or seven people. 

1096. PICHELSTEIN BEEFSTEW. 
(Bismarck's Favorite Breakfast Dish.) 

Carefully wash and clean 1 ,large parsley-root or parsnip, 1 
large carrot, 1 celery bulb, 1 leek and 4 medium sized potatoes, 
rinse again in cold water and slice fine. Mix well witli 1 pound 
of lean beef of the round or loin, cut in thin slices. Season with 
salt and pepper and pour into hot pan in which 3 ozs. of butter 
or beef-marrow have been brought to the rising point. Keep 
tossing until of a light yellow color, cover and place where it will 
simmer until done (in fifteen to thirty minutes). 

1097. ECONOMICAL STEAK. 

Select nice piece of round steak, 1 inch thick, cut lightly on 
both sides across the fibers, about 1/16 inch deep and j4 inch 
apart, flour well, fry in moderate amount of bacon fat and butter. 
When well browned on both sides pour in enough hot water to 
cover. Cover tightly and cook gently twenty to thirty minutes. 
Remove to hot platter and add more flour to gravy; thin with 
cold milk or water and boil up. Serve with steaming hot potatoes 
or boiled rice. 



330 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK. 

1098. CHOP SOOY— (Origin, Chinese). 

Take % pound pork, % pound veal, 1 small chicken, all boiled ; 
3 large onions and 3 stalks of celery, saute (fry quickly) in butter 
and oil ; add the meats with stock and brown sauce, also % pound 
fresh mushrooms, all the materials to be cut in slices before mix- 
ing. Add 2 teaspoonfuls Major Grace Chutney (relish) while 
cooking. Season with pepper and salt, cook all together ^ hour. 
Serve in bowls. Sauce to serve on side is made of Major Grace 
Chutney and Worcestershire sauce. 

Rice to serve on side: Take % pound rice, put in plenty of 
boiling water, boil long enough to cook rice done but not allowing 
it to break. Do not allow the water to boil off the rice. When 
cooked put in colander and pour over cold water and shake well. 
Pour in a dish and it is ready to serve. For Chicken Chop Sooy 
leave out the pork. Other meats may be used if preferred. 

1099. POT PIE. 

Take lean veal, beef, chicken, or any meat and cut up in pieces 
of a suitable size. Wash, cover with cold water, and boil slowly. 
Skim when it begins to boil. Season with butter, salt and pepperj 
add 1 sliced onion and handful of washed rice. Pare and slice 
enough potatoes for a family, and add to the stew. When it is 
boiling again, add dumplings and boil half an hour longer. In-, 
stead of dumplings a crust of thick puff paste may be added. In 
this case bake one hour in hot oven. A few slices of ham added 
to the meat is an improvement. 

1100. LAMB AND OYSTERS. 

Cut about 2 pounds of breast of lamb into small cubes, season 
with sage, parsley, salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Cover 
with water and stew until tender. Then stir in 1 cupful cream, 
and when boiling again put in 2 dozen fresh, plump oysters. Re- 
move from fire as soon as the oysters begin to curl at the edges, 
and serve immediately. 

1101. KIDNEY. 

Parboil and cut into thin slices a beef kidney, then fry out 



DEPARTMENT 19 321 

salt pork or fry 2 chopped onions until brown in little olive oil. 
Put together, add little hot water (if cooked with canned mush- 
rooms, use the liquor instead of water), let simmer slowly for 
about one-half hour or more, then add the mushrooms, or some 
chopped parsley. Should not be allowed to cook too long. 

Sheep's kidneys are split in two, broiled over clear fire, and 
served with lump of butter on top of each half. 

1102. TRIPE. 

If to be boiled, wash in warm water, cut in nice squares or 
triangles, trimming oif all fat. Put in plenty of boiling water 
and boil four hours. Pour off water, season with pepper and salt 
and boil another hour in equal quantities of milk and water. 
Serve with the gravy. A nice addition would be onions boiled 
tender, drained, mashed and boiled up again in wineglassful of 
milk or cream with a little butter rolled in flour. Serve with 
mustard or vinegar, and pepper immediately after cooking. 

If to be fried, tripe should be plain-boiled four hours the day 
before and put away covered. Cut into large squares or strips, 
egg and crutftb and fry in very hot beef drippings ten minutes. 
Left over boiled tripe, also, if properly cared for, may be fried. 

For stewing 1 pound of boiled tripe, fry 2 tablespoonfuls of 
chopped onion in % cup of butter to light brown, put in tripe 
in strips, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful of 
good vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, heat under constant stir- 
ring. When hot, pour on large platter, ladle some hot stewed 
tomatoes over tripe in two or three places, and serve. 

1103. TERRAPIN. 

The terrapin is a tortoise that lives in fresh and brackish wa- 
ters. The diamond-back variety is considered a great delicacy. 
To prepare, kill terrapin by scalding; skin and cut off claws; cut 
meat into thin slices ; salt and pepper ; cover with water ; bring to 
boil ; then cook in slow oven twenty minutes. Terrapin is then 
ready for use, as directed in the following recipes : 

Broiled Terrapin — Dip slices of terrapin prepared as above in 
melted butter, season with salt and pepper, and broil on gridiron. 



322 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1104. VEAL LOAF. 

Chop fine 3^ pounds raw veal mix with 3 teaspoonfuls each 
of cracker dust and milk, butter size of 1 egg, 2 eggs, i/^ table- 
spoonful of pepper and of salt. Form into loaf, sprinkle with 
rolled crackers, and bake about two hours in pan with little 
water. 

1105. SWEETBREADS, EXTRA FINE, 

Boil 2 good-sized sweetbreads for ten minutes in salted water. 
Remove from fire and separate the skin from sweetbreads, break 
up in small pieces; prepare cream sauce with tablespoonful of 
butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, put in pan together and when melted 
and blended together add pint of milk and bring to boil. Add the 
sweetbreads, season with pepper, a little salt and cook five or six 
minutes. Garnish with parsley or lettuce. Serve hot. 



1106. SALMON LOAF. 

Remove bones and skin of 1 can of salmon. Melt 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, add 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup crumbs, salt and 
pepper to taste, and the salmon. Work well together, put in 
buttered can or mold, cover and steam one hour. Take out of 
can and put on ice. Slice, arrange on platter and garnish with 
quartered hard-boiled eggS; lemons, and parsley. 

1107. SHAKER CODFISH DINNER. 

Fry thin slices of bacon in saucepan until crisp, then add boiled 
potatoes, not quite done and sliced while still warm. In another 
saucepan cook a little codfish, shredded, in water until nearly 
all the water is gone; add 1 cupful cream, season with pepper 
and pour over potatoes. Pile up on platter, garnish with sliced, 
hard-boiled eggs and parsley and serve hot. 

1108. FROG'S LEGS. 

Skin the frog's legs, dip in milk, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 



DEPARTMENT 19 323 

turn in flour and fry to delicate color in smoking hot fat. Drain 
on napkin or paper and serve hot. 

The skinned legs may also be sauted in butter and served 
with a rich white sauce seasoned with lemon juice. 



1109. MOCK DUCK. 

Spread a tender round of beef steak on board and cover over 
with bread crumbs and 1 pint oysters. Add enough of the oyster 
juice to moisten the bread crumbs. Season with salt and pepper 
and put a few lumps of buttef here and there. Roll up tightly 
and sew up sides and ends. Put in baking pan with cup of water 
and lump of butter. Roast from one to one and a quarter hours, 
basting frequently. Serve either hot or cold. 



1110. LEFT-OVER ROAST BEEF. 

Place on bottom of baking-dish alternate layers of raw sliced 
onion, raw sliced tomato, and cold roast beef cut in cubes (dice 
shape). Season with salt and pepper and moisten with a little 
stock. Top with a layer of bread or cracker crumbs, mixed with 
grated cheese if desired, and bake about one hour. Another good 
way of serving left-over roast beef is to cut it in^ slices and stew 
with cucumbers, peeled, halved and seeded. Very little water is 
necessary. Season with a little salt, pepper, nutmeg and sugar 
to taste. Do not cook too long or the cucumbers will fall to pieces. 



1111. WELSH RAREBIT. 

Take 1 pound of cheese (best American), grate and put in 
porcelain sauce-pan and thin sufficiently with old ale, then place 
over fire and stir until melted. For each person have ready slice of 
toast with the crust trimmed and pour over enough cheese to 
cover it. Serve hot. One pound of cheese will make 5 rarebits 
and will require about 1 wineglassful of ale for each. Considered 
a very hearty dish, too much so for a delicate stomach. 



324 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1112. GOLDEN BUCK 

Mince or grate J4 pound of good American cheese, put in 
stewpan with 1 oz. butter, 1 wineglassful ale, 1 saltspoonful celery- 
salt and half as much red pepper. Beat up 2 eggs with i table- 
spoonful cream and stir into above over the fire. Whisk over 
fire till creamy and partly set. Then take off fire, flavor with J4 
teaspoonful each of lemon juice and Worcestershire sauce. Cut 
2 slices of hot buttered toast into quarters, put each slice together 
again on hot plate or dish, pour half of the cooked mixture over 
each slice, garnish with sprig of fresh parsley and serve. 

1113. BAKED CHEESE CUSTARD. 

Put into enameled saucepan 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 of 
flour, ^ teaspoonful mustard, a little grated nutmeg and a little 
cayenne; place over fire and when all is blended together add 1 
gill of sweet milk, then add ^ pound of grated cheese, Parmesan 
(Italian). Do not let boil but stir until a smooth, thick cream, 
next add- the beaten yolks of 6 eggs, stirring constantly, and beat- 
ing for five minutes ; then add the well beaten whites, put in well 
buttered tin mold and bake in quick oven for twenty minutes. 

1114. COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Pour boiling water on thick milk in the pan in which it has 
turned ; stir while pouring. As soon as milk separates from the 
whey, and appears to be cooked, let it settle. In about 2 minutes 
most of the water and whey may be poured off. If not sufficiently 
cooked, use more hot water. Set pan on edge and draw the curd 
to upper side, using spoon or hand, pressing out as much water 
as possible. Add salt and cream to taste. 

1115. CUCUMBER FRITTERS. 

Peel 1 medium-sized cucumber, cut into slices J4 inch thick, 
cut out center with cutter. Boil slices in slightly salted water 
ten minutes, drain on sieve. Fill centers with liver forcemeat 
(see Sauces, Dept. 7). Dip each slice carefully in light frying 
batter, drop in hot fat. Fry golden color, take out, drain, sprinkle 
with a mixture of fine salt and red pepper. Serve hot. 



DEPARTMENT 19 325 

1116. TOMATOES AND BACON. 

Excellent for breakfast. Cut large, firm tomatoes into thick 
slices. Do not peel. Butter oyster broiler lightly and broil the 
slices of tomato over a clear fire. Arrange on hot dish, sprinkle 
lightly with pepper and place on each a slice or two of crisp fried 
bacon. The slices of tomato may be fried, if preferred, drained 
dry and served in the same way. 

1117. BANANAS AND EGGS. 

Cut the bananas in slices and flour each ; fry light brown in 
frying pan ; serve with fried bread, or with poached eggs, same as 
bacon and eggs are served. 

1118. SANDWICHES FOR ALL OCCASIONS. 

For an extra lunch late at night or during an outing, at pic- 
nics, or for children to take to school, or occasionally for a regular 
meal no article of food is more appropriate than a good sand- 
wich. And the housekeeper or cook can display considerable taste 
and care in preparing, serving or wrapping up sandwiches. If 
made of white bread, the loaf should be one day old, and if but' 
ter is used, it should be soft enough to spread on the slice of 
bread without breaking the crumb. Then put the sandwich in the 
refrigerator to harden the butter again. 

To make sandwiches appetizing, the ingredients should also 
vary. Rye bread is preferable to wheat with many kinds of meat, 
also with cheese, and a sandwich made of a slice of Swiss cheese 
or roast mutton, between buttered slices of fresh pumpernickel 
(black bread) and half a fresh crisp roll will be well relished. 

Sardines (imported the best), whole or split in two lengthwise, 
and sprinkled with a little lemon juice on good bread will form 
the substantial part of a light, quick lunch. The same will apply, 
also, to cold chicken, either roasted, boiled or broiled, and to 
various kinds of poultry and game, or cold tongue. 

Unless the meat is tender enough to be easily divided by the 
teeth, like tongue, it should be coarsely chopped. Raw beef 
should be chopped fine. Fillings for various sandwiches follow. 



326 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Sandwiches Continued. — The following combinations are ex- 
cellent spread on bread or between two slices of bread, with or 
without butter, according to taste : 

Grated cheese mixed with a little butter, vinegar and mustard. 

Sliced hard-boiled eggs, topped with boneless sardels (a small, 
pickled Mediterranean fish). 

A paste of yolks of eggs and melted butter, seasoned and 
mixed with the chopped whites. Add mustard, if desired. 

American Club Sandwich. — Three slices thin toast buttered. 
Remove crust if preferred. Cover first piece toast with thin 
slices of chicken, sprinkle sparingly with salt. Place second 
slice of toast on top, and on this layer place lettuce leaf and 
three strips of well browned bacon. Cover bacon with a little 
mayonnaise dressing, placing third piece of toast on top. A club 
sandwich should always be served with the toast and bacon hot. 

Colonial Club Sandwich. — Butter three slices of thin toast 
(remove crusts), cover first layer of toast with thin sliced chicken, 
sprinkled lightly with salt. Put second layer of toast on top and 
on this, a slice of tomato and then put on small pieces celery and 
brown bacon, each chopped separately. Place third slice of toast 
on top, finishing oflf with sufficient chopped celery and red pepper. 
A little mayonnaise dressing can be put in center or on top of third 
piece of toast, as preferred. Cut sandwiches in square or three- 
cornered pieces, or serve whole if preferred. One to each person. 

Sandwiches. — Ham, or meat of any kind, also cheese sand- 
wiches, can be made with rolls, graham or brown bread ; the filling 
depends upon circumstances; that is, whether ham, sardines, 
cheese or salad is desired, keeping in mind, of course, that the best 
materials only should be used. If for picnics or travelling, wrap in 
paraffin paper, which keeps them nice and fresh. 

1119. CANAPES. 

Canapes are used as first courses in elaborate menus. They 
may consist simply of cavaire on buttered toast, served with 
chopped onion and sections of lemon, or of toast or fried bread 
spread with chopped ham, crab meat or shrimps, covered with 



DEPARTMENT 19 327 

grated cheese, baked until the cheese melts, and served at once. 
Other combinations are sliced medium hard boiled eggs with 
sardels, anchovy paste in alternate strips with chopped white 
of tgg and yolk of egg, watercresses, minced, squeezed dry in a 
doth, mixed with butter, and topped with caviar, etc. 

1120. TOAST. 

Whether toast is better browned outside and soft inside, or 
well dried throughout and golden outside would seem to depend 
on the individual taste, but from the scientific point of view the 
latter method is preferable, because the heat should convert the 
starch in the bread into the more digestible dextrin, (starch-gum) 
not merely on the two surfaces, but through the entire slice of 
bread. Toast for invalids should be carefully prepared; can be 
dipped into hot water for an instant to moisten it. 

Cut even slices % inch thick from a stale loaf of bread, heat 
gradually and when well dried, move close to the clear fire, and 
remove at once, when a golden brown. 

Milk toast is made by pouring a little boiling, salted milk on 
each slice. The milk may be thickened with corn starch or flour 
and a little butter. 

For Cream toast stir 1 tablespoonful of flour into 1 tablespoon- 
ful of melting butter, cook 3 minutes longer, add, little by little, 
2 cups of milk just brought to a boil, stirring all the time and 
until smooth. Let simmer while toasting the bread. Soak the 
slices of toast thoroughly in salted boiling milk, put in a dish 
and pour the cream over. 

Toast dipped in hot water, buttered and topped with straw- 
berries and sugar, and served with cream or whipped cream makes 
a splendid breakfast dish or dessert. 

1121. CHEESE ON TOAST. 

Stir 1 cup of grated cheese in 1 cup of milk over fire until 
melted, remove from fire and stir in 2 eggs well beaten. Heat 
again, but do not let boil. Spread on toast afld serve piping hot. 
Nice for breakfast or tea. 



Copyright, lays, by Wm. H. Lee. 




Department 20. 

ARTISTIC COOKING consists largely in the ability to combine various 
_f\_ wholesome ingredients in so skillful a manner as to please^ the palate, 

satisfy the appetite, and at the same time appeal to the eye. This aifp 
has been highly cultivated at royal courts and in the homes of the rich/r 
especially in France, but other countries have also contributed to a long li^t 
of culinary fancies, of which a few very popular or famous ones have been 
selected for this department, including chafing-dish and similar recipes. 



1122. ROYAL POTATO SOUP. 

Cook in 2 ozs. of butter 1 cupful of cut-up carrots, turnips, 
celery, onion and parsley root, also a few pieces of asparagus, 6 
or 8 mushrooms cut in halves, 6 or 8 sprigs of cauliflower, and 1 
pint of raw potatoes sliced. Do not let brown. Add 2 quarts of 
boiling water, let simmer one hour. Rub through sieve, add 1 
teaspoonful beef extract, cook about ten minutes longer, season 
with red pepper and a little salt, and serve with fried bread dice. 

1123. SOUP A LA REINE (Queen of Soups). 

The recipe is meant for five or six persons. A plump, fat 
chicken, carefully cleaned and washed the day before, is boiled 
gently for two hours in 3 quarts of water. If old, put on in cold 
water and boil longer, until tender. Half an hour before re- 
moving from fire add i/^ pound of rice and a bouquet made of one 
sprig of thyme, 1 stalk of celery, and 1 thin slice of onion tied to 
a parsley root. When the rice is soft, strain through sieve. When 
cold, remove fat. Pound the white chicken meat and rice in mor- 



339 



330 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

tar to pulp, then rub through a fine sieve, moistening with a 
little stock to pass more easily through the sieve. Add pulp to 
the stock, season with salt and pepper and heat, but do not let 
boil again. As soon as hot, pour into tureen, stir in 1 cup of hot 
cream and serve at once. 

The soup may be varied by beating the yolks of 4 eggs into the 
hot cream, or into a glass of white wine (omitting the cream) . 



1124. CODFISH A LA CARDINAL. 

Cut fresh codfish into inch steaks, sprinkle with lemon juice, 
salt and pepper and let stand ten minutes. Place side by side in 
a deep frying-pan, add 1 cup of fish stock or water, cover tightly, 
let come to a boil and simmer twenty minutes. Take out with 
skimmer and put on hot platter, cover each with hot thick tomato 
sauce, flavored with a little anchovy paste. Garnish with slices 
of lemon and parsley. 

1125. SALMON TURBIT. 

Carefully remove all bones from 1 can of salmon and mix with 
y% cup of fine cracker dust. Cream 1 tablespoonful butter, work 
in 1 tablespoonful flour, little salt and pepper and 1 pint hot milk. 
Boil three minutes and mix in with salmon. Pour in well buttered 
pan and bake twenty minutes. 

1126. FILLET OF BEEF A LA GODARD. 

Two nice, small fillets of beef, not too fat, are well trimmed, 
larded, and braised in good stock. When done and nicely glazed, 
cut in slices but leave slices in their places. Put the sliced fillets 
on large dish on which a layer of boiled or steamed rice has been 
spread. The space between the two fillets is filled with force- 
meat balls (meat chopped and spiced), with pieces of truffle, if 
possible. Along the outer sides of the fillets arrange chains of 
slices of sweet breads, crumbed alternately with bread and truf- 
fles, and worked in butter, and at each of the two ends of the 
fillets place a pile of truffles or mushrooms. With this rich and 



CROQUETTES. 




CHlCKl^-AlyA-TlMEALES J 




Copyright, 1908, by Wm. H. Lee. 



332 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Add 1 gill of milk and work into paste, adding water if needed. 
Cut 1% pounds of rumpsteak in thin slices across the grain, dip 
one side of each in flour mixed with salt and pepper, roll into each 
a small piece of fat. Roll out the paste % inch thick, line a deep 
pan or dish with the dough, reserving enough for a top. Fill the 
lined dish with layers of beef and oysters, grating a little lemon 
rind oij each layer. Moisten well with seasoned stock and a little 
lemon juice. Wet the edge of crust, put on cover, pressing down 
the edges firmly. Tie up pan in cloth, wrung out in hot water 
and floured, allowing sufficient room for the raising of the crust 
in cooking. Put in saucepan half filled with boiling water and 
cook two and one-half hours or steam about three hours. Remove 
the cloth, turn the pie out on hot dish, and serve. 



1131. LAMB CHOPS A LA VILLEROI. 

Trim some lamb chops of uniform size and thickness nicely, 
scraping bone clean for about 1 inch. Cook quickly in a little 
butter in stewpan until half done, on both sides. Put aside and, 
if necessary, put under a weight to make the chops of even and 
uniform thickness. Dip each chop in a rich brown sauce, up to the 
scraped part of the bone, roll in crumbs and when wanted, fry a 
golden brown in hot fat. Serve on napkin, garnished with parsley 
or Brussels sprouts or mushrooms. 



1132. MUTTON CHOPS A LA SOUBISE. 

Cut the chops a little thicker than usual. Trim nicely, scraping 
the bone clean for about 3 inches. Cover bottom of stewpan with 
some cooked vegetables (carrots and peas, or some kind of beans) 
lay strips of salt pork over, place the chops on top, add enough 
rich stock to just cover the vegetables and pork, cover tightly and 
simmer about forty minutes. Take chops out carefully, put under 
weight to make of uniform thickness. Add to the vegetables 1 
teaspoonful of curry-powder and % teaspoonful of minced onion, 
boil down to the desired consistency, spread on hot platter, ar- 
range the chops with paper frills on top, and serve. 



DEPARTMENT 20 333 

1133. SWEET BREADS A LA COLBERT. 

Blanch some large sweetbreads, cool under press, split in two, 
Trim, season, flour, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, fry a golden color 
in hot butter. Arrange on a layer of forcemeat (meat chopped and 
spiced) in circular order, fill the center with plain boiled green 
peas, pour a little sauce Colbert (see sauces) over all and serve 
with more of the 'sauce in a sauceboat. 

1134. LAMB'S BRAINS A L'lTALIENNE. 

Select large fine lamb's brains, remove skin carefully, without 
destroying the shape of the brains. Clean, blanch and cook in 
good stock with little white wine. Have ready a flaky pie crust 
in pie plate, fill the hollow with some nice cooked forcemeat. Ar- 
range the cooked brains on top in circular order, putting between 
every pair a slice of pickled tongue cut like a cock's comb, partly 
fill the center with mashed artichoke bottoms or some other suit- 
able vegetable, as asparagus tips, glaze the vegetable and the 
slices of tongue, pour a little white sauce on each piece of brains 
and serve with more of the sauce in a sauceboat. 

1135. CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. 

Cut 1 large fowl into 8 or 10 pieces, put in a stewpan with 1 
cupful of salad oil, and cook over moderate fire until browned. 
Sprinkle in 1 tablespoonful ilour and when brown, pour in 1 pint 
of stock or water. Let simmer for a good half hour or until tender, 
skimming off all fat. Add % cup of small mushrooms, season 
with salt, pepper, sugar and, if desired, a little onion or garlic. 
Take out the meat, pile up on dish and keep hot. Reduce gravy 
l)y boiling over hot fire under constant stirring, until it sticks to 
the spoon, pour over meat and serve, if desired, with plain boiled 
rice. 

1136. CURRIED CHICKEN. 

Slice 2 large onions and 1 peeled and cored apple, and fry 
with the fowl, cut in pieces, in 8 ozs. of butter to a nice brown. 
Add 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful flour and 



334 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Vi pint of stock, and stew about twenty minutes, adding, if 'de- 
sired, a little garlic. When done, stir in 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, and serve with boiled rice. 

1137. CURRIED CHICKEN MADRAS STYLE. 

Cut up the chicken, put in deep saucepan and fry to light 
brown color in butter. Take out chicken, and fry chopped onion 
in same butter a pale brown ; add 1 dessertspoonful curry powder 
and fry a little, constantly stirring; put the chicken in again, also 
1 dessertspoonful of grated cocoanut, 3 cloves and 1 small stick 
of cinnamon. Mix well. Add 1 gill of rich brown sauce, % gill 
of tomato pulp and % gill of stock or water, boil up and skim. 
Cover up and let simmer forty minutes. Ten minutes before 
serving salt to taste and add the juice of V^ a lemon. Serve with 
plain boiled rice. 

1138. CHICKEN AND RICE, SPANISH STYLE. 

Cut up chicken and cook in stewpan until tender. Steam i/^ 
pound of moistened rice until soft. Fry in 1 cupful of olive oil, 1 
clove of garlic, remove the garlic and fry in the same oil 3 medium 
sized onions chopped fine. Put chicken into baking-dish, cover 
with rice mixed with oil and onions and with 1 can each of sweet 
peppers and tomatoes. Pepper and salt to taste, and cook until 
the tomatoes are well done. 

A similar dish is made of boiled tripe cut into small strips. 

1139. BROILED CHICKEN A LTTALIENNE, 

Dress 1 plump chicken, split it open along the back, spread out 
and flatten well; rub both sides with lemon juice, season with 
pepper and salt. Put in 3 or more skewers (pencil shaped pieces 
of wood) to keep flat, immerse in sweet oil for about ten minutes, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley and broil over or before bright fire. 
When done, remove the skewers, and serve, garnished with cauli- 
flower sprigs and asparagus tips or small white turnips. 

Following gravy goes with the above: Fry 3 peeled and 
chopped onions in l?ytter, add I boned and chopped anchovy, 1 



DEPARTMENT 20 335 

gill of tomato sauce or 1 tablespoonful of catsup and 1 glass of 
sherry. Simmer ten minutes^ add 1 sliced tomato and 1 table- 
spoonful of meat extract. Boil up, skim and pass through sieve. 
Heat again and season to taste. 

1140. CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

This recipe may also be used for croquettes of turkey, veal, 
other meats, or fish. 

Chop y^ pound of cooked chicken meat with a little ham or 
tongue. Chop 1 slice of onion and fry three minutes in hot butter. 
Add some flour and fry to a golden color. Stir in Vg giU of stock or 
gravy; cook five minutes, add the meat. When hot, bind with 2 
yolks of eggs, season with pepper, salt and a grate of nutmeg, 
mix well and take off fire. Fry 4 or more German pancakes, 
spread with the meat, roll up neatly. Let cool and cut into rolls 
about 2 inches long. Dip each well in beaten white of egg, roll 
in bread-crumbs, L-'.t set and dip again in white of t.^'g and roll 
in bread-crumbs. Put carefully in wire basket and fry in hot 
fat to golden color. Drain and arrange on dish over folded nap- 
kin, cloth or paper. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and serve hot 
with lettuce salad. 

1141. CARROT CROQUETTES. 

Carefully clean carrots that are neither too old nor too young, 
boil until soft, drain and mash while hot. For each cupful of 
mashed carrots mix in 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful melted butter, 
salt and pepper to taste and a pinch of mace (the outer coat of a 
nutmeg) and set away until cold. Form into small croquettes, 
roll in fine cracker crumbs, then in beaten egg, and again in 
crumbs, set on ice for one hour, and fry in a kettle of hot fat. 

1142. PARSNIP CROQUETTES. 

Mash 8 boiled parsnips, add 4 tablespoonfuls butter and 2 of 
cream, salt and pepper to taste. Return to fire, cook until the 
mass begins to bubble, take from fire, stir in 1 beaten ^gg and 
Jet cool. Form into small croquettes (rolls or balls), roll in fine^ 



336 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

crumbs then in beaten egg and again in crumbs and fry in hot, 
deep fat. 

1143. ASPARAGUS HEADS A LA DUCHESSE. 

Either white or green asparagus may be taken, but only the 
parts that are perfectly tender. Cut into equal lengths, about 1% 
inches long, boil or steam tender over a brisk fire, drain, put in 
flat stewpan with some good butter, season and add a little sauce, 
such as Bechamel, over fire. Remove from fire, bind with yolks 
of eggs and a little butter. When dished up, surround with Brus- 
sels sprouts, baked without sugar and sprinkled with a little 
Parmesan cheese when taken out of oven. 

1144. STRING BEANS, FRENCH STYLE. 

Stir 1 teaspoonful of flour into 1 large tablespoonful of melted 
butter. When slightly browned, stir in gradually y^, cup of 
cream and a little pepper and salt. Then remove from fire, stir in 
quickly the beaten yolk of 1 egg and the juice of l^ lemon, pour 
over 1 quart of hot string beans boiled tender and drained, and 
serve at once. 

1145. BAKED STUFFED TOMATOES. 

With sharp knife cut off a slice across the stem end of each 
tomato, take out the inside and chop fine together with stewed 
celery and raw oysters. Add enough fine crumbs to make a regu- 
lar stuffing, also butter and seasoning ; mix well and fill the toma- 
toes with the mixture. Sprinkle with crumbs, place in baking 
pan, pour in little hot water and bake about half an hour. Gar- 
nish with crisp lettuce leaves and parsley. 

1146. TOMATO JELLY. 
Turn into saucepan 1 large can of tomatoes, bring to boil 
and strain. Put the liquid on the fire again, adding. 1 teaspoon- 
ful of onion juice, 1 tablespoonful butter ; season to taste. Add % 
box of gelatine, soaked for one hour in % cup of cold water, and 
when dissolved strain through a cloth. Wet a mold or molds with 



DEPARTMENT 30 337 

cold water and fill with the jelly. When cold put on ice. Turn 
on platter, surround with crisp lettuce leaves and serve with 
mayonnaise. 

1147. TOMATOES WITH CUCUMBER JELLY. 

Pare 4 large seedless cucumbers, grate and pour away Yz the 
liquid part. Add ^ box of gelatine soaked and dissolved, also 
juice of % lemon and salt and pepper to taste. Cut off slice 
across the stem ends of large, ripe tomatoes, remove the pixlp 
and turn upside down to drain. Put the cucumber inside the 
tomatoes and put on ice. When jellied put a little mayonnaise on 
top of each, arrange on platter, garnish with crisp lettuce, and 
serve with more mayonnaise in a sauceboat. 

1148. COLD SLAW A LA CREOLE. 

Slice Ys head of cabbage as fine as possible and cut across 
the slices in several places. Put in dish, moisten with cup of vine- 
gar, add 1 tablespoonful of salt and mix well with a fork. Make 
a boiled custard of 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 scant cup each of 
sugar and milk and 3 eggs beaten light. As soon as done pour 
the custard over the cabbage, mix well and set away until cold. 

1149. TOMATO AND CHICKEN SALAD. 

Strain 1 can of tomatoes to remove the seeds. Put on fire 
and when boiling add l^ box of gelatine soaked one hour in a 
little cold water; also 1 tablespoonful sugar and 1 teaspoonful 
salt. Pour into square mold and when cold, cut into small cubes 
(dice shape). Distribute these evenly over a platter lined with 
crisp lettuce leaves ; sprinkle over them 1 cup or more of chicken 
meat cut in the same shape and pour over all a mayonnaise or 
other salad dressing. Garnish with cucumber slices cut in fancy 

shapes. 

1150. BAKED EGGS. 

Put the yolks of eggs each in a separate cup. Beat the whites 
together to a stiff froth, distribute in ring shape on as many slices 
of toast as there are yolks, drop in the- center of each ring a yolk 



338 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

without breaking, and bake five minutes in hot oven. Sprinkle 
with salt, put a little butter on each, and serve hot. 

1151. SPANISH EGGS. 

Heat 1 small tablespoonful of olive oil in frying-pan and fry 
to light yellow 2 slices of onion minced. Add 1 cup each of 
mushrooms and tomato, stir and season to taste. Put in 3 raw, 
unbeaten eggs and serve as soon as the eggs are set. 

1152. MUSHROOMS AND EGGS. 

An appetizing lunch dish. Wash, peel and trim 5 large, 
white, cup-shaped fresh mushrooms, parboil in plenty of water; 
drain. Mix 1 oz. of butter with 1 dessertspoonful of flour, put in 
saucepan with 1 gill of milk. When hot, put the mushrooms in 
carefully, heads down, season with salt, pepper and a trace of 
nutmeg, let simmer ten minutes. Boil 5 eggs hard, plunge in 
cold water, peel. Score the whites around the middle, lift off 
% of each white, so as to show half of yolk. Cut 5 slices of 
toast the shape of the mushrooms, a little larger. Butter, place 
on hot dish, put 1 mushroom on each and 1 egg in each mushroom. 
Strain the sauce and pour carefully round the eggs. If too thick, 
thin with 1 tablespoonful of stock or cream. Serve hot. 

1153. HAM AND EGGS A L'AURORE. 

Boil 6 eggs fifteen minutes or longer and plunge into cold 
water. Peel and cut in quarters the long way. Take the yolks 
and chop them; put the white sections in warm water. Melt 
1 large tablespoonful of good butter and w^ork in the same quan- 
tity of flour, cook a few minutes and stir in gradually 2 cups of 
milk. Keep stirring until creamy, then season with pepper and 
salt. With part of this sauce moisten 3 cups of chopped boiled 
ham, stir on fire until hot, and heap up in the center of a hot 
round dish. Pour remaining sauce over, sprinkle the chopped 
yolk on the pile and arrange the white sections around the pil« 
like sun-rays. 



DEPARTMENT 20 339 



1154. FAIRY FOOD. 



Sift 4 ozs. of flour into a bowl, add 1 dessertspoonful of sweet 
oil, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt. Stir in 
gently 3 yolks and 1 whole tgg, and beat up well. Add 2 or 3 
tablespoonfuls of cold milk or yi milk and J4 water. Mix. 

Dip a molding iron into kettle of boiling fat and then into the 
batter, so as to completely cover the bottom and sides of the mold- 
ing iron. Then put again into the boiling fat and fry the adhering 
batter to a golden color.. Remove the case or shell from the iron 
and proceed in this way until the batter is entirely used up. 

Into each case put 1 teaspoonful of apricot marmalade, fla- 
vored with a little Maraschino (cherry cordial), or Kirsch. Fill 
the cases with mixture made of 1 gill of cream, whipped, 1 gill of 
any kind of good thick syrup and 1 oz. of ground almonds. Dredge 
with grated chocolate or cinnamon and serve. 

With a little practice this recipe will make a most artistic and 
charming dessert. The filling may be varied, according to circum- 
stances. If the directions are carefully followed the result will 
invariably prove highly satisfactory. 

1155. SURPRISE BANANAS. 

Select 8 bananas of good straight shape and perfect color, cut 
off any part of stem that may adhere, wipe clean and cut in two 
the long way. Carefully, so as not to break the skins, scoop 
out the pulp and put in bowrl. Add %' pint of small fragrant 
strawberries, or half the quantity of strawberry preserve, mash 
and mix till smooth, rub through a hair sieve, stir in 1 glass of 
Curacoa or Maraschino, a few drops of lemon juice, and if nec- 
essary a little sugar. The strawberry pulp should be boiled 
down or the mass will be too liquid. But do not scorch. Fill the 
halves of banana peel and put on the ice. When set, reunite the 
halves belonging together, tie with a bit of ribbon and serve. 

1156. FRENCH GINGERBREAD. 

Sift 1^ pounds of flour, i/^ pound rice flour and 1 oz. baking 
powder together 6 times.. Put 1 pound each of honey (or molas- 



340 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

ses) and butter in warm jar and keep warm, until butter is 
melted. Mince the thin rind of 2 lemons, and mix with ^ pound 
of almond paste, 2 ounces of ground ginger, i^ teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg and pinch of ground clove. Stir the liquid into the 
ilour, also the spices, and beat hard twenty minutes. Bake in 2 
or 3 well buttered baking pans in moderate heat Cover with a 
light icing, and cut when cool. 

1157. VEGETABLE DINNER A LA KAISERHOF. 

Peel. 6 potatoes, boil and mash with 2 eggs. Make design 
from the mashed potatoes on platter, covering bottom and form 
holes or pockets as shown in cut. Fill pockets with assortment 
of vegetables : string beans, spinach (English 
style), kohlrabi (cabbage) in cream, stewed 
corn, cauliflower, green peas, pfifferlinge (small 
mushrooms) demi glace and stewed tomatoes. 
Platter, 10 iM. long. Gamish with two small stewed onions and 
slices of carrots and beets, and a poached egg on top in center. 
Pour sauce Hollandaise over all. Serve on a silver or china platter 
about 10 inches long for two people. Either six or eight divisions 
(pockets) may be made and an equal variety of vegetables used. 
For four persons, a platter about 15 inches long with pockets 
liberally filled will be sufiScient. The vegetables for filling may be 
varied to suit convenience. The vegetables should be carefully 
prepared and cooked ready to serve at the proper time. 

1158. STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Wash oysters in shells. Put in pan, set pan in steamer and 
turn on steam, when oysters will open sufiSciently. Pour natural 
oyster juice out of pan over oysters. Serve with brown butter. 

1159. SOFT SHELL CRABS AMERICA. 




Fry crabs in half butter and half oil, until red on both 
then add 1 dash each of brandy and white wine, also i htrge peeled 
tomato, 1 chopped onion, and season with salt, pepper and a little 
paprika (Hungarian pepper). Boil ieota ten to fifteen minutes, 
then add ^/^ teaspoonful or more &( beef extract, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and serve. 



DEPARTMENT 30 341 

1160. FRIED CHICKEN LIVERS. 

Use the upper pan only. Heat 1 tablespoonful of butter and 
keep turning sliced livers over, dredging with flour. After five 
or six minutes add a cup of well seasoned stock, stir lightly, pour 
boiling water in the lower pan and place it between the flame and 
the upper pan. Season with salt and paprika (Hungarian pepper). 

1181. THE PRIZE CHICKEN PIE. 

Cover large fowl with boiling water so as to have plenty of 
gravy ; season with salt, pepper, few bits of butter. Put enough 
flour to thicken the liquor and 2 tablespoonfuls flour into bowl, 
add cup rich milk, beaten yolk 1 egg, lump of butter. Stir into 
the boiling liquor, pour enough over chicken to cover. Reserve 
enough gravy for the absorbing of the pie as it takes up certain 
portion. Get pudding pan with large surface, lay dumplings a 
little ways apart, and as it bakes and absorbs keep filling in the 
gravy kept out for that purpose. To make dumplings sift 1 pint 
flour with teaspoonful Baking powder. Add pinch salt, piece of 
. lard size of walnut. Rub together — mix with buttermilk to which 
has been added pinch of soda, knead lightly, roll to half inch 
thickness, cut into diamond shapes, lay over chicken, bake in hot 
oven until brown and serve. Considered excellent. 

1162. FRENCH PLUM PUDDING. 

Mix 1 pound of chopped beef kidney suet, 1J4 pounds grated 
fresh bread, j^ pound each of currants, raisins, orange peel and 
citronate, 1 pound of moist sugar, 1 tablespoonful powdered 
ginger, 8 whole eggs, J4 glass of brandy and yi glassful of rich 
cream. When well worked, put into the buttered and floured 
mold, and cover with a buttered and floured napkin, the ends of 
which are firmly tied below the mold. Place in kettle with boil- 
ing water, cover kettle well and boil four hours without inter- 
ruption, adding boiling water from time to time as required. 
When done, drain pudding in cloth and turn out on hot dish ; 
make a small cavity on top, pour into it a little sweetened 
brandy, ignite, and serve at once. 




Department 21. 

FOOD and drink for the sick, of course, should be carefully cooked and 
daintily served, with a view to quality rather than quantity. A meal 
properly prepared will go a long way toward creating a desire for food, 
but if carelessly or slovenly served the mere sight may destroy the appetite. 
Broths and soups should be well seasoned, but free from grease. The invalid's 
wants should be studied so as to avoid serving the same dishes too often. 
Spoons, knives, forkb, dishes and napkins should be scrupulously clean. 

Saccharine is reccommended for all hygienic dishes requiring sweetening. 

1163. SCOTCH BROTH. 

Cut the meat from bones of 2 pounds neck of mutton and re- 
move fat. Cut meat in small pieces and put in soup ppt with 
2 slices carrot, 1 of turnip, 1 onion, 1 stalk celery, all cut fine, 3 
pints cold water and % cup barley. Simmer two hours. Simmer 
bones with 1 pint water two hours and strain into soup. Cook 1 
tablespoonful butter and 1 of flour until smooth, stir into soup 
and add 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Season with pepper and 
salt. 

1164. SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH. 

Take ^ a neck of mutton. Put in soup kettle with 1 quart 
cold water, bring to boil very slowly, skimming off all impuri- 
ties. When boiling add % small carrot, turnip and onion stuck 
with 1 clove, % bay leaf and pinch of salt. When vegetables are 
tender, take out, cut in cubes (dice shape) and set aside, throw- 
ing away bay leaf and clove. When mutton is cooked, take out, 
remove all fat from broth, strain, put back on fire, add 1 table- 
spoonful barley blanched, cooked until barley is tender, then 



342 



DEPARTMENT 21 343 

add vegetables and also meat cut in small squares. Boil up and 
serve. Enough for one person. 

Quantities required for six persons, Recipe No. 17, page 13. 
1165. BEEF BROTH. 

Chop lean beef fine^ cover with cold water, and boil until 
meat comes to pieces ; then strain through colander and let broth 
stand until cold. Take off any particles of fat that are on top, 
season with salt and pepper, heat again and serve with small 
squares of toasted bread, or with rice, sago, or tapioca. Other 
meat broths are made in the same manner. 

1166. BEEF TEA. 

Chop fine 2 pounds lean beef and put into glass fruit jar; 
screw on cover, and put jar in kettle of cold water; boil two or 
three hours; pour off juice and season to taste. 

The chopped beef may also be put in jar with 1 cup of water 
and % saltspoonful of salt and put in slack oven for three or four 
hours, or over night. 

1167. EEL BROTH. 

One-half pound of eels, 1 small bunch of sweet herbs, includ- 
ing parsley; % onion, 10 peppercorns, 3 pints water, 2 cloves-, 
salt and pepper to taste. After having cleaned and skinned the 
eel, cut into small pieces, and put into stewpan with other in- 
gredients ; simmer gently until liquid is reduced nearly half, 
carefully removing scum as it rises. Strain through hair sieve ; 
put in cool place, and when wanted, take off all fat from top, warm 
up as required, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Very 
nutritious and easy to digest. 

1168. CALF'S FOOT BLANC MANGE. 

One calf's foot, 1 quart milk, 1 egg, sugar, nutmeg and lemon, 
or seasoning to taste. Procure 1 calf's foot already cooked ; put 
on fire with milk enough to cover, strip of lemon peel, piece of 
nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Cook slowly for three or four hours, 



344 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

and then strain. While still hot stir in the yolk of 1 egg, and 
set in small molds. This blanc mange can be made pleasant to 
the taste by using a little salt, peppercorns, parsley, nutmeg or 
cloves, onion and celery instead of sugar. The lemon peel may 
be added in either case. The egg may be omitted or a little 
cream might also be added. 

1169. CHICKEN PANADA. 

Take white part of breast and wings freed from skin, of either 
roasted or boiled chicken, or under side of cold sirloin roasted 
beef; or cold roasted leg of mutton, and pound in mortar with 
equal quantity of stale bread. Add either water in which chicken 
has been boiled, or beef tea, until a fluid paste is formed, and 
then boil ten minutes, stirring constantly. 

1170. EGG PANADA. 

Take the softer portion of a stale loaf of bread and break into 
pieces ; soak in cold water for one hour or more, then mash well 
and season with a little butter, sugar and salt, to taste; let this 
cook slowly together for one hour, then add the well-beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs and 1% tablespoonfuls of sweet milk and IJ^ table- 
spoonfuls of rich sweet cream. Let simmer a few minutes and 
serve hot or cold. A little nutmeg may be added if desired. 



1171. JELLIED CHICKEN. 

iCook 6 chickens in small quantity water, until meat parts 
from bone easily ; season to taste with salt and pepper. As. soon 
as cold enough to handle, remove bones and skin ; place meat in 
deep pan or mold with the gizzard, liver and heart, until mold is 
nearly full. To water left in kettle add ^ box of good gelatine 
(also, if desired, juice of lemon) dissolved in little warm water, 
and boil until reduced to little less than 1 quart; pour over 
chicken in mold, leave to cool, cut with sharp knife and serve. 



DEPARTMENT 21 345 

1172. BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

A tender, properly seasoned and well broiled mutton chop 
is one of the most appetizing and nourishing meats for an invalid. 
Remove all skin and most of fat, but leave in the bone. Serve 
piping hot, and with 1 fine, sliced tomato, lightly seasoned with 
salt or a little vinegar and sugar? 

1173. STEWED MUTTON OR LAMB CHOPS. 

Take 1 nice mutton chop or 2 lamb chops, 3 teacupfuls of 
water, 1 small stick of celery; pepper and salt to taste. Take 
off all fat and stew gently nearly two hours ; skim off every 
particle of fat that may rise to surface. The celery should be cut 
into thin slices before added to meat, and care must be taken not 
to put in too much of it. If water is allowed to boil, the cutlet 
will be hard. It is better cooked in jar set in saucepan of water. 

1174. BARLEY WATER. 

Put ^ pound of pearl barley into 1 quart of water and boil 
slowly for half hour ; strain and add another quart of water and 
handful of chopped raisins, 3 or 3 figs cut small, boil one-half 
or three-quarters of an hour longer, then strain, sweeten to taste 
and flavor with lemon or orange juice. 



1175. PINEAPPLE WATER. 

One large, ripe pineapple, 1 pint boiling syrup, juice of 1 
lemon. Peel the pineapple, slice and mash well in basin ; then pour 
on syrup and lemon juice, stir well and cover. Let stand two 
hours, filter through fine cloth and add 1 quart spring water. 



1176. STRAWBERRY WATER. 

One pound of fine strawberries, % pound loaf sugar, juice of 
1 lemon. Crush sugar finely, and sift over strawberries, which 
should be red and ripe. Add ^4 pint of cold water, filter through 
cloth, add 1 quart spring water and strained juice of lemon, 



346 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1177. CURRANT WATER. 

One pound fine red currants, % pound raspberries, 1 pound 
crushed loaf sugar. Pick fruit, add y^ pint water, crush with 
wooden spoon, and put pulp into preserving pan with half the 
sugar. Stir till it begins to simmer, then filter through hair 
sieve. Make rest of sugar into syrup with 3 gills of water, pour 
it in the fruit syrup, add 1% pints of water. Let cool and bottle. 

1178. RICE WATER. 

Rice water is not only nourishing but it may be given babies 
who cannot retain milk. 

Boil the rice longer than usual and stir often. When cooked 
to a gruel, rinse a clean cloth several times in hot water, to take 
out any soapy taste, and strain through it the rice. Serve the 
liquid warm. 

1179. TOAST WATER. 

Toast a slice of bread very brown, break into pieces, and pour 
over cupful boiling water. When cold will prove a nourishing 
drink. 

1180. JELLY WATER. 

Put in tumbler 1 tablespoonful currant jelly, and 1 table- 
Spoonful wine; mix well and fill glass with ice water. For a 
feverish patient leave out wine. 

1181. BAKED MILK. 

Put fresh, good milk in jar, covering opening with white 
paper, and bake in moderate oven until thick as cream. 

1182. KOUMISS. 
(Fermented Milk.) 

Into 1 quart new milk put 1 gill fresh buttermilk and 3 or 
4 lumps white sugar. Mix well and see that the sugar dissolves. 
Put in warm place to stand ten hours, when it will be thick. 
Pour from one vessel to another until smooth and uniform in 
consistency. Bottle and keep in warm place twenty-four hours 



DEPARTMENT 21 347 

(up to thirty-six in winter). The bottles must be tightly corked, 
and corks tied down. Shake well five minutes before opening. 

A very agreeable drink, especially recommended for persons 
who do not readily assimilate their food. Young children may 
drink it as freely as milk. Instead of buttermilk, some use 1 
teaspoon of yeast. 

1183. KOUMISS— NO. 2. 

Dissolve 1 tablespoonful sugar and compressed yeast size of 
1 hazelnut in 2 tablespoonfuls warm water, add to 1 quart fresh, 
rich milk slightly warmed, and fill in bottles, leaving neck empty. 
Cork well, secure corks with wire, and put in warm place, upside 
down, for twenty-four hours, or until thick. Then put in cold 
place until wanted. 

1184. MULLED BUTTERMILK. 

Put 1 pint fresh buttermilk into 1 double boiler and stir con- 
stantly until ready to boil, then add the well beaten yolk of 1 
egg and remove from fire at once. Excellent for feverish patients. 

1185. ALMOND MILK. 

Blanch (whiten by parboiling) 2 ozs. of sweet almonds and 
1/^ oz. of bitter almonds, and pound with 2 ozs. loaf sugar and 
1 tablespoonful orange flower water in mortar, adding few drops 
of water occasionally while pounding, to prevent oiliness. When 
a smooth cream, pour into clean basin, add 1 pint of cold water, and 
stir with silver or wooden spoon. Let stand two hours, strain 
and put on ice or in very cool place ; otherwise it may turn sour. 
Serve with an equal quantity of water. , 

1186. MILK PORRIDGE. 

Wet 1 tablespoonful of sifted flour gradually with milk, mak- 
ing a smooth cream and adding 1 large teaspoonful of sugar, and 
1 pinch of salt. Add enough milk to make 3 cupfuls, boil five 
minutes, constantly stirring, add a little cold milk, boiling up 
again and serve. 



348 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1187. RICE GRUEL. 

Take 1 tablespoonful of rice and 1 pint of milk ; put in earthen 
dish and bake in oven for two hours. Keep dish covered for first 
hour, then take off cover and stir occasionally. Sweeten if pre- 
ferred. Excellent for persons recovering from bowel trouble! 

1188. OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Boil oatmeal in double boiler to avoid scorching. Stir very 
often, so as to dissolve the grains, and boil gently. When of 
desired consistency, strain through fine sieve and flavor with a 
little nutmeg, butter or wine, according to taste. A little salt 
is necessary. 

1189. EGG GRUEL. 

Beat yolk of 1 egg with 1 tablespoonful sugar, add 1 cupful 
boiling water, stir smooth, add the beaten white of egg and season 
to taste. A little salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg and 1 tea- 
spoonful of whiskey make this a very palatable and strengthening 
drink. Serve hot. 

1190. CORNMEAL GRUEL. 

Let 1 pint of water come to boil ; then stir in 1 tablespoonful 
cornmeal . wet with a little water. Let boil few minutes, and 
season with salt. Milk can be added, if preferred. 

1191. IRISH MOSS. 

This seaweed has a reputation as a remedy for chest diseases. 
It should be first soaked and washed in cold water, and then 
boiled for a quarter of an hour in fresh water, allowing % oz. 
of moss to 1% pints of water. Strain, and when cold it will set to a 
jelly. If required as a drink, should have double quantity of 
•water or milk. 

1192. ICELAND MOSS. 

Wash very thoroughly. Put in cold water, and nearly boil. 
Throw first water away, as it will be bitter. Then put moss on 
again with water, allowing 1 oz. of moss to 1% pints of water. 



DEPARTMENT 21 349 

Boil fifteen or twenty minutes and strain while hot. Sweeten 
and flavor with lemon or spice. Milk can be used instead of 
water. It is a slightly bitter drink. If a sufficient quantity of the 
moss is used it turns into a jelly on cooling. 

1193. CARAMEL COFFEE. 

Put in stirring bowl 4 quarts good clean bran and add 1 quart 
corn meal, 1 beaten egg, y^ cupful of New Orleans molasses, mix 
well, put in oven and roast like ordinary coffee, stirring fre- 
quently. When a rich brown color grind in a coffee mill and put 
in an air tight can. To make the coffee, allow 1 tablespoonful to 
each cup, pour over boiling hot water and keep hot for quarter 
of an hour. Bo not allow to boil again. 

1194. BROWN BREAD COFFEE. 

Take crusts or pieces of brown bread and roast in the oven 
until dark brown, crush with rolling pin and pour bpiling water 
over crumbs. A nourishing drink for an invalid and can be 
taken hot or cold. 

1195. CORN COFFEE. 

Roast ear of dry corn until the tips of the kernels are black. 
Break the ear in pieces, put in bowl ; then pour over 1 pint boil- 
ing hot water. Drink cold. 

1196. GRAIN COFFEE. 

Take, equal quantities of wheat, corn, rice, barley and oats 
(one or two of these grains may be left out if not obtainable), 
roast like coffee and when brown stir in small lump of butter. 
Grind like coffee and use about 1 cupful to 1 quart of water. Let 
come to boiling point, but do not boil. 

1197. CARROT COFFEE. 

Clean, slice and dry carrots enough ; brown in oven, grind and 
put away in cans ready for use the same as any coffee. 
Considered a very healthful beverage. 



350 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1198. PARSLEY TEA. 

For Those Suffering from Kidney Complaints. 
Clean 2 large bunches of parsley, cover well with cold water 
and boil one hour adding more water if required. Drain, and boil in 
the liquor, which should now be about 2 quarts, a small piece of 
beef or mutton to give a wholesome flavor and just enough salt to 
be palatable. The quantity of liquid now ought to be about 3 pints. 
Set away in a cool place. Drink i cupful at a^time, once every 
twelve hours. Repeat two or three times during the month. 
Said to be excellent for kidneys. 

1199. FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Pour over 14 pound of flaxseed, 1 quart of water and let 
steep in a hot place for two or three hours, strain and add juice 
of 1 or 2 lemons and sweeten well with sugar. If taken for a 
cold (for which it is excellent) a little crushed licorice may be 
added. 

1200. WHEY. 

To 1 pint warm new milk add 1 teaspoonful of prepared ren- 
net (the dried and salted stomach of an unweaned calf, pig, or 
sheep). Let it stand half an hour, then strain through a piece of 
muslin. An effective drink in feverish complaints. Can some- 
times be taken when milk does not seem to agree with the patient. 

White wine whey is made by pouring 1 wineglassful of sherry 
into 1 breakfast cupful of boiling milk, and straining through 
muslin. 

Treacle (a sirup obtained in refining sugar) posset is made 
of boiling milk, with 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle, in a similar 
manner. 

1201. ARROWROOT. 

Put 1 heaping teaspoonful of ground arrowroot into cup, 
and mix with little cold milk. Stir into pan containing 1 pint of 
either cream or water that has been brought to boil, adding a little 
salt. Let simmer for few minutes, and sweeten or flavor with 
grated nutmeg if desired. Should be made only as it is wanted. 



DEPARTMENT 21 351 

1202. HERB TEA. 

Made by infusing the dried or green herbs and leaves in boil- 
ing water, and letting stand until cold. Sweeten to taste. 

1203. SLIPPERY ELM BARK TEA. 

Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over, cover and 
steep until cold. Sweeten, ice, and take for summer disorders, 
or add lemon juice and drink for a bad cold. 

1204. ELDERBERRY SYRUP. 

Take elderberries perfectly ripe, wash and strain them, add -1 
pint of molasses for every pint of the juice, boil twenty minutes, 
stirring constantly; when cold, add to each quart 1 pint of best 
brandy ; bottle and cork tight. An excellent remedy for a cough. 

1205. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Crush ripe blackberries and to each gallon of juice add 1 
quart boiling water; let stand twenty-four hours, stirring oc- 
casionally. Strain and add 2 pounds sugar to each gallon liquid ; 
put in jugs and cork tightly. Ready for use in eight or ten 
weeks. Excellent for summer complaint, and can be taken by 
delicate invalids. 

DIET FOR AN INVALID. 

Hot milk with a dash of red pepper, one or two slices of dry 
toast, and one soft boiled egg. 

Small piece broiled mutton chop, roasted cracker, stewed 
prunes or any other delicacy the patient relishes. 

Small piece broiled steak, spinach, toast. 

Chicken broth, toast, green peas, one soft poached egg. 

Mutton broth, roasted cracker, string beans, baked apples. 

DO NOT EAT: 

Hot bread, potatoes, uncooked fruit, pies, cakes, or any sweets. 





Department 22. 

THE first important stop in making coffee, tea, chocolate or any hot drink, 
is to see that the water is pure and fresh. If allowed to stand in the 
kettle or boil too long (more than five minutes), it is considered unfit for 
use. Good coffee cannot be made with stale water. The water should be 
brought to a boil quickly and used without delay. If tea looks dull or dark, 
the water probably is at fault. The cofTee or teapot should be of porcelain or 
glazed on the inside, because beverages made in tin are apt to have a 
metallic taste. The utensils should be cleaned and scalded every day. 



1206. COFFEE. 

Procure the finest genuine "Arabian Mocha" and genuine old 
"Ankola Java" or "Mandheling Java." Blend together, half and 
half in the roasted bean. Then grind medium fine. Take an old 
fashioned cofTee pot, scald clean, put in a bowl 1 heaped teaspoon- 
ful of the coffee for each person to be served ; break 1 fresh egg, 
shell and all, in the coffee and blend into paste. To do this quickly 
use }i cup cold water; then put into coffee pot which should be 
warm; pour upon coffee % pint boiling water for each person, 
let boil for five minutes (no more). Set on back of range, where 
it will keep warm but not boil, about five minutes (to settle). A 
few drops of cold water will hasten the settling. Use pure cream 
and loaf sugar. Small piece of codfish skin, isinglass or a little cold 
water may be substituted, but the egg enriches the coffee and 
the shell clears it. Rio coffee is generally of a strong flavor, while 
Mocha and Java are mild. Use pure cream, thin cups, serve hot. 

352 



DEPARTMENT 32 353 

1207. COFFEE— NO. 2. 

Coffee pot should be thoroughly cleaned and scalded. Put in 
the coffee, ground medium, one scant tablespoonful to each cup, 
with one extra for the pot. Pour on boiling water, stir well, and 
when boiled up remove from hot part of stove, add about % cup 
of cold water, which acts as a settler. After five minutes pour out 
1 cup to clear the spout and pour back into pot. Let settle five 
minutes and serve. Some prefer to put white of 1 egg with shell 
in grounds and boil coffee from five to seven minutes. In any 
event, the coffee should be separated from the grounds as soon 
as made. Serve with cold, fresh cream and best white sugar. 

1208. DRIP COFFEE. 

For drip coffee a filter of porcelain or gauze must be used. 
A gauze filter must be thoroughly rinsed after using and hung 
up to dry exposed to the sun, if possible. Heat the filter and 
pot, put grounds in filter and moisten with boiling water. Let 
stand five minutes, then add more boiling water every two or 
three minutes. The dripped coffee must not boil. 

Fresh, pure cream is indispensable for good coffee. It is a 
mistake to use part cream and part milk or all milk. For Vienna 
coffee put 1 large tablespoonful or more of whipped cream (or % 
cream, ^2 white of egg, whipped together) in cup and pour cof- 
fee into the cup, and serve at once. 

1209. COFFEE EXTRACT. 

Prepare extract of coffee the day before wanted, if a number 
of guests are to be entertained. Proceed as above, using 1 pint 
of water for every 34 pound of ground coffee. Where the filter 
is used, heat the extract after the first filtering to near the boil- 
ing point and pass through the same grounds again. As soon as 
done put into clean, dry bottles and cork tightly. Two table- 
spoonfuls of extract is sufficient for 1 large cup of coffee. After 
the second filtering another pint of boiling water may be passed 
through the grounds and this weak coffee brought to a boil and 
used on the next quantity of fresh grounds. Excellent for an 
emergency, picnic, excursions and outings: 



354 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1210. ICED COFFEE. 

Make coffee as usual, but the amouat of ground coffee should 
be one-half more than the quantity generally used. Cover up, 
let grow cold and put on ice. Serve in tumblers with 1 large 
lump of ice. 

1211. TEA— ICED TEA. 

To make the best tea, two teapots should be used. The one 
the tea is made in must be of earthenware. The tea pots ought 
to be hot and the water boiling. About 1 teaspoonful of tea 
for each person. Pour boiling water on tea and let stand five 
minutes (no more) ; then pour off the liquor into the teapot in- 
tended for the table. If too strong reduce with boiling water. 

Tea is generally drunk sweetened to taste and without any fla- 
voring, but milk, a slice of lemon or a few drops of best rum may 
be used. Iced tea makes a refreshing Summer drink. 

1212. CHOCOLATE. 

Take 2 quarts of good rich milk, put in double b6iler, and let 
come to boil. Grate fine a little more than }i oi a. cake of bitter 
chocolate, dissolve in a little milk, and add to the boiling milk; 
sweeten to taste; simmer for a few minutes after adding the 
chocolate, and serve. 

While simmering, the egg beater may be worked in the choco- 
late, churning it to a froth. Put a little of the froth into each 
cup before filling. 

1213. COCOA. 

Cocoa can be made same as chocolate. Equal parts of milk 
and water may be used in preparing it, if pure milk is considered 
too rich, but nothing brings out the rich flavor like pure milk. 



1214. GRAPE JUICE. 

Pick and stem 6 quarts of grapes, bring to a boil with 2 
quarts of water and strain. Boil up once more, bottle and sea! 
while hot. Will keep several months. Excellent Summer drink; 
with a little water, ice and sugar. 



DEPARTMENT 23 355 

1215. RASPBERRY JUICE. 

Dissolve 2y2 ozs. cream of tartar in 2^2 quarts water, pour 
upon 6 pounds mashed raspberries, cover and let stand in cool 
place for twenty-four hours. Then strain through cloth bag, add 
for each pint of juice 1 pound sugar and stir until sugar is dis- 
solved. Add % teaspoonful salicylic acid, dissolved in 1 table- 
spoonful of good whiskey. Fill into bottles with patent stoppers. 
If such bottles are not available, common bottles stopped with 
cotton batting and tied with a piece of muslin over it, will serve 
as a substitute. Diluted with water, will prove a refreshing and 
palatable summer drink. 

1216. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Pick over carefully IV^ pints of freshly gathered raspberries^ 
put in stone jar with 3 pints of best vinegar, let stand twenty- 
four hours, strain and put liquor back in jar with 1^ pints of 
fresh raspberries for twenty^four hours. On third day repeat the 
process, drain without pressing, pass through jelly bag (previous- 
ly wetted with vinegar) , add pounded loaf sugar to the clear liquor 
(one pound for every pint) ; stir, and when dissolved, cover up, 
put the jar in saucepan with hot water, bring to boil and boil one 
hour, removing all scum as it rises. When done, add 1 wineglass- 
ful of brandy for every quart of liquor, bottle hot and seal the 
corks. Refreshing, diluted with 3 parts of cold water. 

1217. RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Place red raspberries in stone jar, cover with good cider vine- 
gar and let stand over night. In the morning strain, and to each 
pint of juice add 1 pint sugar; boil five minutes, skim, and let 
cool ; then bottle and cork tightly. 

1218, LEMON SODA. 

Strain juice of 1 lemon into a tumbler, add powdered sugar to 
taste, fill tumbler with iced water. Mix well, put in Yz teaspoonful 
bicarbonate of soda (or of baking powder), stir and drink while 
foaming. 



356 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1219. HOME MADE ICE CREAM SODA. 

Put in 14 gallon fruit jar 1 large cupful of cracked ice, 1 
cupful sweet, liquid chocolate, 3 eggs, 1 cupful of sweet cream, 
and fill the jar ^ full of cold water (borated or appolinaris water 
is best), then screw on top of jar and shake until all is beaten into 
a foam. Pour out in glasses either with or without ice cream. 

1220. CREAM NECTAR. 

Put 3 quarts water into granite kettle, add 3 pounds gran- 
ulated sugar and let come to boil ; remove from fire, stir in 3 ozs. 
tartaric acid dissolved in 1 gill of water, and return to fire. Beat 
whites of 3 eggs to stiff froth, add 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water 
and beat again. When syrup comes to boil, stir in whites of the 
eggs, remove from fire, and when cold, put in fruit jars. To serve 
put 3 or 3 spoonfuls of the mixture in 1 tumbler nearly full of 
cold water, then stir in J4 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda (or 
of baking powder) ; the result is a most refreshing drink. 

1221. LEMONADE. 

Take % an average-sized, juicy lemon and squeeze out all 
juice. Remove seeds; add 1 glass water; sweeten to taste with 
granulated sugar. If desired, slice of orange can be added with 
little cracked ice. 

As a certain amount of fruit acid is necessary for the system, 
lemonade, used freely, will prove beneficial, especially for persons 
inclined to be bilious. Sip slowly, because it is injurious to take 
too much cold liquid into the stomach at one time. ' 

Lemonade forms one of the healthiest drinks and is preferable 
by far to ice water or alcoholic beverages. 

To serve more than one, the quantities are to be increased in 
same proportion. For 13 persons use 6 lemons and 12 glasses of 
water. 

1222. FRUIT LEMONADE. 

Take juice of i/^ lemon, juice of % orange, 2 tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar, 1 glassful crushed ice, 1 slice lemon, 1 slice 
orange, % slice pineapple, and 3 drops orange flower water ; pre- 
pare and serve like ordinary lemonade. 



DEPARTMENT 33 357 

1223. ORANGEADE. 

Peel 3 oranges thinly and boil the peel with ^ pound of sugar 
in 1 pint of water. Press the juice of oranges through fine hair 
sieve into jug.^ Add the strained syrup and IVg pints of cold 
water, mix, and stand on ice for one hour. Then serve in goblets, 
from cut glass jugs or decanters. 

1224. COMBINATION FRUIT JUICE. 

Put in punch bowl or large pitcher, i/^ pint strawberry juice, 
y2 pint orange juice and i/^ pint lemon juice, sweetened with 
granulated sugar syrup. Add tablespoonful acid phosphate, 2 
siphons carbonated water and 1 pint chipped ice, a few slices of 
orange and some strawberries. 

1225. LEMON SYRUP. 

Two pounds of loaf sugar, 2 pints of water, 1 oz. of citric acid, 
% dram essence of lemon. Boil sugar and water for a quarter of 
an hour, and put into basin, until cold. Pulverize the citric acid, 
mix the essence of lemon, add to the syrup, mix well, and bottle. 
Two tablespoonful s of syrup in 1 tumbler of cold water will be 
found a very refreshing summer drink. 

1126. STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 

Take fine ripe strawberries, crush in cloth, and press out the 
juice ; to each pint add 1 pint of simple syrup, boil gently for one 
hour, then let it become cold, and bottle, cork and seal. When 
wanted reduce with water, set on ice, and serve in small tumblers 
half filled. 

1227. PINEAPPLE SORBET. 

With silver knife cut into small pieces 1 pound of pineapple, 
put in glass bowl, add 1 pint of cold water, the juice of 1 or 2 
lemons, and sugar to taste. If the pineapple is preserved, there 
will be little sugar needed, if any. Cover tightly for several hours. 
Then add 2 quarts cold water, stir well, add sugar or lemon 
juice to taste, put in ice. When cold, serve with a piece of pine- 
apple in each glass. 



358 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1228. EXTRA CRANBERRY SHERBET. 

One quart cranberries, wash thoroughly, -cover with water and 
boil five minutes. Put through sieve, add sugar measure for meas- 
ure. Let come to a boil ; remove from fire, add juice of 2 lemons 
and 1 pint cold water. When cold freeze in usual manner. To 
make extra fine add beaten whites of 2 eggs when partly frozen. 
For six people. If for two or three use % or if for more, increase 
according to number of persons to be served. (Turkey dinner.) 

1229. PEACH SHERBET. 

Pare and quarter enough fine, ripe peaches to make 1% pounds 
after removing the stones, put 1 pound in glass bowl, sprinkle 
with % pound sugar, add 1 pint water and juice of 1 or 3 lemons. 
The other half pound of peaches, together with kernels of 10 or 
13 peachstones, bruised in mortar, put on fire with 2 quarts of 
water, boil half an hour, rub through fine sieve, add to peaches, 
and put on ice. When cold, serve with % peach in each glass. 

Orange Sherbet is made in similar way, adding 1 bottle of light, 
white wine, if desired. Strawberry, raspberry, fig, raisin, or cherry 
sorbet are all made similarly, and flavored with Maraschino (Dal- 
mation cherry cordial), if desired. 

1230. HOME-MADE BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Press juice out of berries then take equal quantity boiling 
water and mix with pulp. Let stand for two hours ; afterwards 
press pulp out again, and mix with the other juice ; then put with 
each gallon of mixture 4 lbs. of brown sugar. Pour into a clean 
cask leaving bung-hole open, or covered with a piece of lace and 
let sand for a month to ferment. Bottle, seal tightly with wax, 
and keep in a cool place. Of course the longer it is kept the bet- 
ter, but it can be used as soon as fermented. Makes a pleasant 
table-wine and an excellent tonic for convalescents. 

1231. LEMON CORDIAL. 

To every pint of water add juice of 3 large lemons and sugar 
to taste, then add 1 small glassful of any desired cordial or shrub ; 
serve with 1 strawberry or preserved cherry in each glass. 



DEPARTMENT 32 359 

1232. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Crush and strain ripe blackberries, let juice stand for one hour 
or two, then strain again. For every quart of juice add 1 pound 
white sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls each of ground cloves and nut- 
meg, also 4 sticks of cinnamon broken into small pierces ; put all 
in granite kettle, boil gently twenty minutes, add ^ gill of brandy 
for each quart of cordial and put up in bottles, air-tight. 

1233. EGGNOG. 

(Origin American — 1825.) 

Mix the yolk of 1 egg with 1 teaspoonful sugar in mixing glass 
or shaker, add 1 teaspoonful brandy, Medford rum or whiskey, 
fill up with milk and ice, and shake or stir until well mixed. 
Grate a little nutmeg on top and serve. The liquor, of course, 
may be omitted, or replaced by 1 large tablespoonful or more 
of whipped cream or Devonshire cream. Flavor with nutmeg. 

Melted chocolate or cocoa powder (1 teaspoonful), may be 
added to the egg and sugar, and the shaker filled with milk. 

If raspberry juice or other fruit juice is used, fill the shaker up 
with water instead of milk. In winter a hot eggnog, made with 
scalding milk, is beneficial after exposure to the severe cold. Used 
mostly during Christmas and New Year's. 

1234. CLARET CUP OR FRUIT CUP. 

Prepare 13 lemons — peel — squeeze juice from lemons and put 
in dish with j/i pound powdered sugar and the lemon peel ; 1 quart 
strawberries, ^/^ pound sugar in dish, 1 pineapple, }i pound sugar 
in dish, allow to stand 13 hours then squeeze all together and 
strain ; 3 quarts water or 3 of water and 1 of claret, add 3 pounds 
sugar, strain and let cool. 

1235. CURRANT WINE. 

Wash perfectly ripe currants and take off stems. Crush the 
berries and strain. Add yi pint water and up to 1 pound of sugar 
for each quart of strained juice. Stir well. Pour into clean tight 
cask, cover opening with dry, thin cloth. Let ferment one month. 
Just before bottling, a little brandy or whiskey may be stirred 
in to advantage, if desired. 



360 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1236. RAISIN WINE. 

For every gallon of water take 1 pound of raisins cut up and 
freed from seeds, the juice of 1 lemon arid 1 pound sugar. Pour 
all into stone jar and stir daily for about one week. Then strain 
and bottle. Keep in cool place. Ready for use in about two 
weeks. Just before bottling the wine may be flavored to taste 
by adding a little sherry or port. 

1237. BERRY WINE. 

Wash berries (blackberries, raspberries, or others) carefully 
and just cover with cold water. Crush with wooden masher and 
let stand twenty-four hours, covered with cloth. Strain and add 
3 pounds sugar for every gallon of juice. Put in jars with wide 
mouths, take off scum every day for one week. Pour into clean, 
tight cask. Place the stopper (bung) in and put away. Next 
spring strain and bottle. 

1238. DANDELION WINE. 

Pick a four quart measure of dandelion blossoms in early 
morning, boil 4 quarts water and pour over, cover, and let stand 
for twenty-four hours, strain and add 2 pounds sugar and juice 
of 3 lemons; boil for one-half hour, strain again, and let stand 
for two or three days ; then bottle. 

1239. HARVEST DRINK. 

Put into large kettle about 10 gallons water, add about 15 
pounds strained honey and let stand over night. Next morn- 
ing bring to boil, strain into cask and add % pound ginger. When 
cool, add 2 cakes yeast dissolved in little water or y^ cupful 
brewers' yeast. Shake cask and put in stopper (bung). Ready 
for use in twenty-four or thirty-six hours. 

More invigorating and refreshing than spirits or beer. 

1240. GOOD ROOT BEER. 

Dissolve 1 yeast cake in 2 gallons lukewarm water, stir in 1 
bottle root beer extract and 1% pounds sugar until all is dis- 



DEPARTMENT 23 361 

solved. Bottle an'd cork with patent clasped stoppers. Let stand 
two days before using. 

1241. SPRUCE BEER. 

Boil 3 handfuls of sprigs of spruce fir with 3 ozs. of hops and 
2 tablespoonfuls of ginger in 2 gallons of water and strain. Add 
1 quart of best molasses or 2 pounds brown sugar. Boil up, 
set aside and when cold, add 2 teacupfuls of yeast, and pour 
into clean, tight cask. Let ferment for twenty-four hours or a 
little longer, and bottle. 

Instead of spruce sprigs 1 oz. of spruce essence may be used. 

1242. HOP BEER. 

Put in boiler 1 pound hops, 1 handful of thoroughwort, and 1 
small bunch of dandelion root; add 2 gallons of water and boil 
one hour. Strain and cool ; then add 4 pounds sugar and 1 cake 
yeast. Put in jugs and leave out corks. When working has 
stopped, cork, and set in cool place. Excellent as a Spring tonic. 
Drink small glassful three or four times a day. 

1243. GINGER BEER. 

To 1 gallon boiling water add juice of 8 lemons, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls Jamaica ginger, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar and ^^ teaspoon- 
ful essence of wintergreen. Stir well, bring to blood heat by 
adding cold water, then add 1 teacupful good yeast. Set in warm 
place until it begins to work, then bottle, tie down corks tightly, 
set in warm place for ten or twelve hours or until it begins to 
work, then set in cold place for one or two days. 

1244. SHERRY FLIP. 

Take 1 glass sherry wirie, the yolk of 1 egg and 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Stir mixture and then shake thor- 
oughly. Serve in small, thin glass, sprinkling a little nutmeg 
over top. Port wine can be used in the same way if preferred. 

Will prove an excellent appetizer and beneficial to convales- 
cents, if served at the right time and not too freely. 



363 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1245. SHERRY COBBLER. 

In a large glass put 1 wineglass of sherry, 1 teaspoonful pow- 
dered sugar, and fill up with broken ice. Put a shaker over glass ; 
shake well, take off shaker, decorate the cobbler with fruit and 
put in 2 straws. Claret or any other wine may be used in same 
way. Dilute with water, if desired. 

1246. WINE CUP. 

To 1 quart wine add juice of 1 lemon and 1 orange, 1 wine- 
glassful each of Curacao (or brandy) and sherry, 1 slice cucum- 
ber and just before serving 1 pint mineral water. Serve cold. 

Champagne and all light red and white wines may be used 
same way, varying the flavors according to circumstances. 

1247. CARDINAL PUNCH. 

Pare 4 oranges extra thin; put the skin (without any white 
parts) into quart bottle, add 2 ozs. cinnamon pounded to pieces, 

1 inch of vanilla cut up and fill bottle with arrac. Stopper and 
put in warm place for three days, shaking well once or twice a 
day. Then filter through filtering paper and put in well-corked 
bottle. For cardinal punch take 2 tablespoonfuls of the extract 
and as much sugar for each bottle of Rhine wine. Serve ice cold. 

1248. FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil 1 pint of water and 1 pound of sugar with chopped yel- 
low rind of 1 lemon five minutes and strain ; while hot slice into it 

2 bananas, add 1 grated pineapple and % bottle Maraschino cher- 
ries and their liquor. When ready to serve put block of ice in 
center of punch bowl, pour over 2 quarts of Apollinaris water ; add 
to the fruit the juice of 6 lemons and pour into the punch bowl. 

1249. MILK PUNCH. 

Fill large tumbler half full with broken ice ; pour in 1 wine- 
glassful brandy, whisky, or white rum, 3 tablespoonfuls pow- 
dered sugar ; fill up with milk ; stir thoroughly and serve with 2 
straws. A grate of nutmeg on top may be added. 



DEPARTMENT 22 363 

1260. ROMAN PUNCH. 

Make 2 quarts strong lemonade, not too sweet, put in freezer ; 
stir occasionally. When half frozen, add 1 pint of half brandy 
and half Jamica rum ice-cold. Mix well. Serve in half frozen 
condition. 

1251. HOT PUNCH. 

Take % pound loaf sugar and rub -with lemon until all the 
yellow rind is on the sugar. Put the sugar and strained juice of 
2 lemons in punch bowl ; mix well, pour in 1 quart boiling water, 
stir till sugar is all dissolved, then add 3 quarts of light claret, 
• Rhine wine or Sauterne heated to boiling point ; stir well. Add 
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg or other flavoring, pour in % pint 
brandy and i/^ pint white rum, stir briskly and fill the glasses at 
once. 

1252. QUICK PUNCH. 

Heat 1 pint claret to boiling point. Throw in with wine a few 
cloves. When hot, ptjt 1 teaspoonful of white rum in each wine- 
glass (large size) and 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Fill up with 
hot wine and serve at once. 

Excellent remedy after exposure to cold,- or to bring about 
perspiration. 

1253. NEW YEAR'S PUNCH. 

Boil up 31/^ pounds sugar in 1 pint water, skim. Stir in 1 
quart white wine (Sauterne). Boil up and take off fire. Cover 
tight and let cool short time. Add % oz. each of vanilla and 
lemon essence, and 1 quart of arrac or white rum ; mix well, bottle 
and cork tightly. To this punch essence, add 1 to 3 parts of 
heated white wine and serve hot. If too strong, add 1 part boil- 
ing water, or make the proportion, 1 part essence and 3 parts 
wine. 




Department 23. 

THE term "candy'| means confectionery made of sugar or molasses. Sugar 
is derived chiefly from the juice of the sugar-cane and the sugar-beet, 
and is composed of one-half hydrogen, one-fourth carbon and one-fourth 
oxygen. Sugar has a tendency to fatten, and therefore should be taken spar- 
ingly by persons who incline to corpulency. Candy should always be eaten 
in moderation, and avoided entirely in cases of kidney trouble. Pure, simplei 
home-made confectionery is generally considered safe, while many of the man- 
ufactured candies are more or less adulterated or contain poisonous coloring. 



SUGAR. 

Cooked sugar having a tendency to crystallize, some ingredi- 
ent like glucose, cream of tartar, lemon juice or other acid must 
be added to prevent granulation, and a jarring or stirring after 
the sugar is dissolved must be carefully avoided. Any crystals 
forming above the surface on the pan should be removed with a 
wet brush or cloth, or the Whole panful of syrup, in certain cases, 
may crystallize (granulate). On the other hand, sugar is highly 
hygroscopic, that is to say, it attracts water from the air, and candy 
should, therefore, not be made in a room full of steam, or during 
damp weather. Too much acid spoils sugar for making caramels. 

The different degrees of boiled sugar are named the smooth, 
thread, soft ball, hard ball, light snap, hard snap and caramel. 
When the syrup commences to boil, at about 216°, take out a 
little in spoon, wet thumb and forefinger in water and rub against 
the syrup ; if it feels smooth and a thread will not form between 
the fingers, it has reached the smooth stage. A thread forms at 
230° between finger and spoon and may be drawn out at 222°. 



364 



DEPARTMENT 33 366 

At 337° the sample, if put into cold water, may be rolled into a 
soft ball, at 347° into a hard ball. At 392° the sample, if pressed 
flat in water and cooled, will break with a slight noise (light 
snap). If the sugar is to be heated beyond this point add some 
acid (about 5 drops to the pound), if not put in before. At 310° 
the sample, pressed flat in water and cooled, crackles when broken 
in two or chewed (hard snap). The caramel stage is reached at 
345° when the sugar begins to turn brown. A sugar thermometer 
is not expensive and almost indispensable in candy making. 

When sugar has reached the desired stage, hold the pan in cold 
water half a minute to prevent any increase in the heat. If the 
syrup granulates or is heated beyond the proper degree, add 1 
spoonful of water and start again. 

Always keep a lid on boiling syrup when not stirring. 

SYRUP. 

Syrup will keep indefinitely in air-tight bottles or jars. It is 
well, therefore, to prepare syrup of various consistency for dif- 
ferent purposes and have them on hand. Syrups are graded by 
means of a syrup gauge. Pour part of the boiling syrup into a 
high narrow glass, float the gauge in it and notice the degree it 
shows. The gauge ranges from to 50. Water ices when ready 
to be frozen should register about 19° on the gauge, syrup to be 
frozen with fruits about 33° and syrup for diluting fondant 34°. 

Where a syrup gauge is not available, the following scale will 
prove useful : A syrup made of 4 cups of sugar and 3 of water 
over the fire, would register 35 degrees five minutes after start- 
ing to boil, 38° ten minutes later, and after that 3° more for every 
ten minutes of boiling. 

1254. FONDANT (Melting.) 

Fondant is considered the most delicate icing for small cakes 
and^the nicest glazing for fresh fruits. It is also a chief in- 
gredient of the finest cream candies. It is made from sugar syrup 
heated to about 337° (soft ball). Dissolve 1 pint granulated 
sugar over the fire in i^ pint of water with a scant saltspoonful 
of cream of tartar, constantly stirring. When dissolved, stop 



366 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

stirring, and avoid jarring the syrup. Carefully remove the crys- 
tals forming on sides of pan, removing them with wet brush or 
cloth, but without touching the syrup. The proper stage is near 
when large bubbles rise. Dip teaspoon in ice-water, then take a 
little of the syrup with it and plunge in the ice-water for a 
moment. Take the sample between thumb and forefinger. If 
it can be rolled into soft ball, remove pan from fire immediately, 
pour on a cold platter or polished marble slab. Let cool five or 
six minutes, until a dent made with a stick remains. The syrup 
should not have formed a crust by this time. If it does, the crust 
must be carefully removed or the boiling must be done over. If 
all right, rub the syrup into a smooth soft cream with wooden 
spatula, working from the edges toward the middle. Then put in 
earthen bowl, cover with damp cloth and set away for several 
hours or over night. 

A simple substitute for fondant is made by mixing confec- 
tioner's sugar and vanilla flavoring with enough cold water to 
make paste that can be molded with the fingers. 

1255. COLORING CANDY. 

Sift the desired quantity of sugar into granite pan and stir on 
warm stove until dry, then put in coloring liquid and shake or 
stir until evenly distributed. 

For orange and yellow coloring put freshly grated lemon or 
orange peel or carrot in muslin bag with very little water and 
squeeze hard. By adding water various hues down to a light 
cream color can be obtained. 

Spinach, dandelion or sourdock freshly picked and well 
washed may be used for a green coloring. Put a peck of the 
greens wet in a mortar, pound to a plup and press through clean 
cloth into a saucepan. Stir over fire until it begins to curdle, then 
strain again, mix in same quantity of sugar, pint for pint, add 
pinch of powdered alum, % wineglassful of alcohol, bottle, cork 
tightly and keep in cool place. Dilute with water for lighter 
shades. 

For red, use pure raspberry, strawberry or cranberry juice, 
fresh or preserved. Dilute for lighter shades down to pink. 



DEPARTMENT 23 36? 

1256. MOLDS FOR CANDIES. 

The best material for candy molds is corn starch. Dry and 
sift evenly into a flat shallow receptacle. Do not press down 
upon it. Make the hollows by carefully pressing in dies made of 
plaster or, lacking these, use buttons, glass stoppers or anything 
at hand, taking care that the hollows have uniform depth. When • 
the candy has been poured in and cooled, take out and wipe off 
any adhering starch. Sift the starch and use again. 

1257. CARAMEL. 

When sugar is cooked to the caramel stage (see above under 
Sugar) remove the pan from fire, throw in i/^ cup boiling water, 
■ return to the fire, boil to syrup, and bottle. 

1258. CARAMEL ALMONDS. 

Toss or mix % pound of blanched, skinned and well dried al- 
monds in 1 dessertspoonful of butter, until well covered, pour into 
candy tin and bake to a delicate brown in moderate oven, stirring 
frequently. Then stir into i^ cup of sugar boiled to the caramel 
stage, until well coated, pour on buttered slab and break apart 
when cold. 

1259. OPERA CARAMELS. 

Dissolve over slow fire 1 quart of granulated sugar in just 
enough milk, adding ^ a saltspoonful of cream tartar, stirring 
constantly. When the soft ball stage (337°) is reached, spread 
in shallow pan. As soon as a dent made in it remains, beat to soft 
dough, knead five minutes adding any desired flavor, roll out ^ 
inch thick on a board sprinkled with sugar, and cut into squares. 



1260. MAPLE CARAMELS. 

Put into granite saucepan 1 pound of granulated sugar, i^ 
pound maple sugar, 1 cupful sweet cream and 1 lump butter the 
size of an egg; keep on the back of the stove until dissolved, 
then boil for about ten minutes or until it breaks when dropped 



368 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

from spoon, stirring constantly. When done, add a little cream 
tartar, pour into granite pan, and cut into squares. 

1261. MAPLE CARAMELS— NO. 2. 

Boil 1 pound maple sugar, broken up, in 1 pint of milk, stir- 
ring occasionally to avoid burning, until a little of it hardens when 
dropped in cold water. Then pour at once into greased pans and 
mark into squares. 

1262. CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cupful grated chocolate, 1 cupful brown sugar, 1 cupful 
molasses, Yz cupful sweet milk; boil to the hard ball (247°). 
Then add piece of butter size of tgg, pour into buttered pan, 
and when partly cold cut in squares. 

1263. FRENCH CREAMS. 

Bring slowly to a boil 2 cupfuls granulated sugar and y^ cup- 
ful milk, boil five minutes; take off fire and set in pan of cold 
water; stir rapidly until it creams. Shape into balls with the 
hands and place nuts on top; or arrange in layers with figs or 
dates between ; then cut in squares ; or dip the balls into melted 
chocolate, leaving until cold upon buttered white paper. 

1264. FRENCH CREAMS— NO. 2. 

Break the white of 1 tgg into a glass and add an equal quantity 
of milk or water ; then stir in enough XXXX confectioners' sugar 
to make sufficiently stiff to roll into shape ; about li/^ pounds will 
be needed, use different flavorings. 

1265. CALIFORNIA CREAMS. 

Two cups XXXX confectionery sugar ; the white of 1 tgg, the 
same quantity of sweet cream and chopped nuts of any kind. Mix, 
add any flavor desired, knead as dough, make in forms and let 
stand over night. 



DEPARTMENT 83 369 

1266. BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Melt 1 pound of light brown sugar in granite saucepan, add % 
pound of soft butter and beat ; drop on buttered paper while hot. 

liJ67. BUTTER SCOTCH— NO. 2. 

Boil to medium ball (243°) 3 pounds of sugar (light brown 
or C sugar will do), 1% pints water and y^ pint of molasses. 
Then add 1 dessertspoonful cream of tartar dissolved in 1 cup 
(^der vinegar and i/^ pound butter. Stir carefully all the time, 
boil to light snap (293°), pour out thin on marble slab and mark 
in squares. ' 

al!'68. SALTED ALMONDS. 

' Blanqji almonds by pouting hot water over and let stand for 
a few tninutes. When skins can be slipped oflf by pressing be- 
tween the thumb and forefinger, drain off water and remove skins. 
Dry with cloth and put into bowl. Spray with little best olive oil 
(or with one part liquid gum arabic and two parts water), shake 
well, then sprinkle with salt (about 2 tablespoonfuls to 1 pound of 
the nuts) put into a shallow pan, place in oven and brown, stir- 
ring occasionally. Or, they may be browned first and then salted. 
Serve in fancy dish or paper case with the dessert. 

1269. BURNT ALMONDS. 

Stir- 1 cupful brown sugar with 1 tablespoonful water over 
fire until dissolved. Bring to boil, add % cupful of blanched, 
peeled and dried almonds and stir until the sugar turns brown 
or until the almonds just begin to stick together. Then pour onto 
the marble slab at once and separate each almond from the others. 

When cold the burnt almonds may be coated white in granu- 
lated sugar boiled to the ball. Pour into the syrup and stir until 
the almonds begin to stick together. Then pour out and sepa- 
rate as above. 

1270. NOUGAT. 

Almonds and other nuts for nougat should be blanched, drained 
and skinned before they are chopped. The nougat is made by 
melting pounded sugar in a copper sugar boiler, putting 1 dessert- 



370 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

spoonful of lemon juice to each pound, then adding double the 
weight of sugar in dry, hot almonds, either colored or white, fil- 
berts, or pistachios, and a little sweet liquor. Pour out on slab, 
press to even thickness with % a lemon and mark into squares, 

1271. SOFT NOUGAT. 

Whip y2 pound powdered sugar and whites of 3 eggs in gran- 
ite ware saucepan over hot fire to thick batter. Then add Vz pound 
blanched and chopped almonds, 1 tablespoonful vanilla sugar and 
if desired, 2 ounces candied orange peel chopped. When well 
mixed, spread out evenly on wax paper, in a shallow pan, about 1 
inch thick, lay wax paper on top, put another pan on top as a 
weight and dry five minutes in moderate oven. Then cut up 
quickly or shape into a horn of plenty, or basket, before it 
hardens. 

1272. MARCHPANE, LUBECK STYLE. 

Blanch and skin 1 pound of fresh sweet almonds. Cut out all 
discolored parts, wash, dry with a cloth, grate as fine as possible, 
or pound to a -paste ; then put on slow fire with 1 pound sifted 
powdered sugar and 1 tablespoonful orange blossom water in a 
granite ware sauce pan, and stir until it no longer sticks to the 
hand. Then pour at once on board sprinkled with sugar, roll out 
to desired thickness, using a little more sugar if required. 

This paste can be cut in fancy shapes, or molded into pears, 
apples, bananas, etc., or a large round disc may be decorated with 
rim of the same material and the center ornamented with molded 
fruits, the rim dented fancifully and inlaid with candied orange 
or lemon peel cut in small squares, lozenges, triangles, bars and 
circles. When done, dry in a cool oven. The paste must remain 
white and soft. The fruits may be colored With candy coloring. 

1273. MARCHPANE, KOENIGSBERG STYLE. 

Treat 1 pound sweet almonds and % oz. bitter almonds as 
above leaving to dry over night spread out on platter. Grate as 
fine as flour, mix cold with 1 pound sifted powdered sugar and 



DEPARTMENT 23 371 

enough rosewater to make dough neither too brittle nor too soft 
for rolling. Cut out as above, put on paper and bake to light yel- 
low in a hot oven. 

1274. FUDGES. 

Grate % cake of chocolate and stir over the fire with % cup 
each of milk and cream, 4 cups granulated sugar and i^ pound 
butter. Stir until it begins to thicken, then place the saucepan in 
a pan containing boiling water and cook to soft ball (237°). Re- 
move quickly from fire, put in a pan containing cold water for 
about one minute, flavor with teaspoonful of vanilla and stir until 
it begins to set. Then pour into buttered pans V^ inch deep and 
mark off into squares. 

1275. FUDGES^NO. 2. 

Stir 1 cup sugar and % cup milk into ^ cake of chocolate 
melted with 1 level tablespoonful butter. Boil to the soft ball 
(237°), then stir until almost hard. Pour into buttered tins, let 
cool and cut into squares. 

1276. OKLAHOMA CHOCOLATE FUDGES. 

Two cups granulated' sugar, 3 squares of good, unsweetened 
chocolate, butter size of walnut, 1 cup sweet cream. Mix together 
in pan and stir while boiling until thick ; then take off fire and 
beat for about fifteen minutes and pour in buttered tins. Cut in 
squares when cold. 

1277. VERMONT MAPLE FUDGES. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup sweet cream, butter size of 1 
egg. Mix together in pan and stir while boiling until thick ; then 
take off fire and beat for about fifteen minutes and pour in but- 
tered tins. Cut in squares when cold. Add 1 cup of nuts of any 
kind, if desired. 

1278. POTATO CANDY. 

Mash fine the insides of hot baked potatoes, work in quickly 



372 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

as much confectioner's sugar as it will take, then make littlb balls 
around nut kernels, and, if desired, coat with chocolate. Excellent. 

1279. TAFFY. 

Stir 3 cupfuls sugar over lire in ^ cupful Water until dis- 
solved, then remove all the crystals formed above the liquid, and 
boil to soft ball (337°) without jarring, then add 1 scant table- 
spoonful butter and ^4 teaspoonful lemon juice, and boil to hard 
snap (310°), then remove quickly from the fire, put in a pan of 
cold water for one minute, add 1 teaspoonful vanilla, pour onto 
buttered slab and mark off in squares before cold. 

1280. CHOCOLATE TAFFY. 

Cook 1% cups of grated chocolate and 1 cup granulated sugar 
with 14 cup water to the hard ball (347°), then add 1 teaspoonful 
of butter arid boil to the hard snap (310°). Remove from fire, put 
in pan containing cold water for half a minute, add 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla, and when cool, pull and cut as desired. 

1281. MARSHMALLOWS. 

Soak over night ^^ pound of gum arabic in large teacupful 
of water, then set on stove until dissolved and stir in slowly 1 
pound of pulverized sugar and the well beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Put the pan in another pan of hot water and bring to a boil stirring 
continuosuly, then put thick layer of cornstarch in a pan, pour 
paste on it, and when cool, cut into squares and roll each sepa- 
rately in confectioner's sugar. 

1282. COCOANUT DROPS. 

Beat the whites of 5 eggs to stiff froth, add 1 large cupful o* 
confectioner's sugar and 3 cups of shredded cocoanut ; mix all to- 
gether, drop on buttered paper, put in brisk oven and brown. 

1283. LEMON DROPS. 

Put cupful of fine granulate^ sugar into stew pan, add enough 
fresh lemon juice to thoroughly moisten it, set over fire, heat 



DEPARTMENT 23 373 

slowly, then boil to the light snap (293°). Drop on buttered 
paper. 

1284. MOLASSES CANDY. 

Put 1 quart of New Orleans molasses into granite kettle, add 
1 cupful of light brown sugar, J/^ cupful of vinegar and boil to 
the hard ball (247°) ; then add lump of butter size of 1 egg, stir 
one half minute, add teaspoonful baking soda, stir again, pour out 
on buttered platter and pull when cold enough to handle. 

1285. CREAM CANDY. 

One pound of white sugar, cupful water, ^ teaspoonful cream 
tartar dissolved in 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls of va- 
nilla, butter the size of 1 egg, boil to hard ball (247°). Pour upon 
a buttered platter and when nearly cold, pull. 

1286. COLORADO CREAM CANDY. 

Three pints granulated sugar, j4 pint glucose, ^ pint water. 
Put in pan and boil ; when done put in pinch of salt and vanilla to 
flavor. Then pour candy over white of 4 eggs beaten a little; 
and put in 1 pint of nuts. Stir until it begins to cream and then 
drop with spoon on greased paper. 

1287. NUT CANDY. 

Boil 1 cup molasses and 1 cup of sugar together to light snap 
degree (292°). Add 1 cup of nut meats (pecans preferred) of 
any kind and take from the fire. Pour into buttered tins and mark 
into squares before too hard. 

1288. COCOANUT CANDY. 

Boil 1 cup of "A" sugar and 1 tablespoonful of butter in 5 table- 
spoonfuls water to the soft ball (237°), remove from fire, add 1 
cupful of grated cocoanut, beat well and drop in spoonfuls on 
buttered tins. 



374 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1289. COCOANUT CANDY— NO. 2. 

Grate 1 small cocoanut, put into stirring bowl, add y>> cupful 
rich cream, and mix well ; then stir in enough confectioner's sugar 
to make it stiff enough to form into creams, place on buttered 
paper and set in oven to brown. 

1290. SUGAR CANDY. 

Take 2 cupfuls of "A" coffee sugar, 1/3 cupful of good vinegar, 
2/3 cupful of water; boil without stirring until it crisps in cold 
water. Turn out upon buttered platter and pour the flavor over 
it. When sufficiently cool pull until white and light, pulling di- 
rectly from you without twisting. Hands must be clean and dry ; 
do not use butter on them. Good for pouring over nuts or pop- 
corn. 

1291. PEANUT CRACKLE. 

Shell and rub between the hands until all the skins are re- 
moved, 3 quarts fresh roasted peanuts and put in a new square, 
well buttered tin. Make syrup of 2 cupfuls of New Orleans 
molasses, 1 cupful sugar and small lump of butter; boil to the 
"thread," (220°), then stir in 1 small teaspoonful baking 
soda. This will cause it to become foamy. Pour over peanuts and 
let cool as quickly as possible. When cold break into pieces. 

1292. CANDIED POP CORN BALLS. 

Put into large, smooth kettle 1% cupfuls of granulated sugar, 
add 1 lump of butter the size of 1 egg and 5 tablespoonfuls of 
water and let boil until hard when dropped into cold water ; then 
throw in 6 quarts of freshly popped corn, stir with large spoon 
take off fire and as soon as cool enough to handle, take out in 
double handfuls and press in balls between the lightly buttered 
hands. 

1293. CONEY ISLAND POP CORN BALLS. 

First pop corn — 2 or 3 ears is sufficient. Syrup for pop corn 
balls: One cup granulated sugar, % cup water, 1 teaspoonful 



, DEPARTMENT 33 375 

vinegar ; then add 2 tablespoonfuls dark molasses and butter the 
size of walnut, y^ teaspoonful salt and boil. Drop some of the 
candy into cold water and if brittle it is done. Then pour syrup 
on pop corn and stir and form into balls with the hands. 

1294. WHITE CITY CRYSTALIZED POPCORN. 

Put into iron kettle 1 tablespoonful of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of water and 1 teacupful of white sugar; boil until ready to candy, 
then throw in 3 quarts of nicely popped corn, stir briskly until 
candy is evenly distributed. Care should be taken not to have too 
hot a fire, or the corn will be scorched while crystalizing. Nuts 
of any kind may be treated in the same way. 

1295. GLAZED FRUIT. 

The best glazing for fruits is fondant, but a good glazing is 
made as follows. Boil to hard ball (347°), without stirring, 2 
cupfuls of sugar in 1 of water. Put each fruit or nut on new hat 
pin or knitting needle, dip carefully into hot syrup and place, on 
buttered or waxed paper. For a heavy coating dip a second time 
when cold. Pecans, walnuts, Brazil mits, cherries, raisins, grapes 
may be glazed in this way, also seedless oranges, peeled and care- 
fully separated into sections without breaking into the pulp. 

1296. CANDIED LEMON OR ORANGE PEEL, 

Pare the lemons or oranges extra thin and boil in ample water 
until soft. Drain, cool and scrape away all white parts. Put in 
boiling syrup made of equal parts of sugar and water, simmer 
until the peel is clear, and then boil vigorously to the hard snap 
(310°). Spread on the marble slab and. dry in warm place over 
night. When perfectly dry, put away in sealed jars. Delicious 
in cakes, puddings and pudding sauces. 

The peel may be accumulated gradually and preserved in 
tightly stoppered jar half filled with rum. If rum is objected to, 
salt brine may be used, but in this case the peel must be boiled 
in several waters before putting in the syrup. 



■■■■■■■■I 







DAIPPl^ :MEAI,S: 



Department 24. 

"/^HAFING-DISH" means a "warming-dish," originally intended for hold- 
V^ ing burning charcoal to heat anything placed upon it. But the modern 
chafing-dish has been greatly improved by American ingenuity. It 
generally consists of four parts: the framework, in which the lamp is set, 
the lamp, the hot-water pan witht side handles, which rest on the framework, 
and the blazer or dish in which the food is cooked. The best quality of 
alcohol should be used in the lamp; to avoid smoke or smut and to prevent 
any danger of a flaring flame igniting an unprotected tablecloth, the chafing- 
dish should be placed on a tray. A spoon and a fork having large handles 
are required, one for stirring the food and. the other for serving firom the dish. 

SPECIAL LUNCHEONS. 

The chafing-dish has fulfilled well its mission, not only meet- 
ing the requirements of the wealthy but also people of moderate 
means. For preparing informal Sunday night teas, midnight 
suppers and summer luncheons, the chafing-dish is considered 
almost a necessity. It not only enables one to prepare dainty 
dishes quickly, but is especially useful in preparing dishes from 
foods left over at meals, such as cold fish or cold meats, which can 

376 



DEPARTMENT M 377 

be rendered sa-'ory and appetizing by re-cooking in the chafing- 
dish. Foods best adapted for quick meals are eggs, omelets, 
creamed dishes, fish, savories, curries, lobsters, crabs, game and 
shell-fish. Many other articles of food can also be cooked in the 
same way. Appropriate drinks and desserts for chafing-dish lunch- 
eons are coffee, tea, cocoa, chocolate, lemonade, orangeade, and 
grape-juice. Ice cream, cake, nesselrode pudding, shelled almonds, 
cracked nuts and miscellaneous fruits and other delicacies. 

1297. CLAMS A LA KLUEHE. 

Take 2 small onions, chop fine, brown and butter ; season with 
salt, pepper and paprika (Hungarian red pepper) -^ add 1 glass of 
claret, 4 dozen small clams, 3 tomatoes, 1 can mushrooms, 2 
pimentos (red peppers), all cut in dices^ and 2 cups boiled rice. 
Cook all together in chafing-dish and serve on toast. 

1298. FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Take 13 large oysters, drain and bread them. Melt J^ ounce 
of butter in chafing-dish, to this add yi ounce of flour, stir for a 
few minutes, and moisten with a gill of milk and the strained 
oyster liquor. Bring to a boil and let simmer for ten minutes. 
Cut the oysters in halves, add them to- the sauce, and let them 
get very hot together without boiling, then add the beaten yolk 
of an egg and a little cream. Season to taste and serve. 

1299. COLD MEATS RECOOKED. 

The remains of cold roast beef or mutton can with very iittle 
skill and trouble be turned into appetizing dishes by the help of 
the chafing-dish. The meat, size about yi pound, should be cut 
into thin slices, freed from superfluous fat and gristle, or it may 
be cut into fine shreds or strips. It is best if first fried or tossed 
in a little butter in the blazer (dish in which- the food is cooked) 
over a full flame, after which a little good brown sauce or gravy 
is added, also a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, J^ glass of sherry 
wine and 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce; season with 
salt, pepper and a pinch of Cayenne. Allow the meat to simmer 
gently for about twenty minutes. Then serve hot. 



378 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1300. EGGS O'SHANNESSY. 

Take 3 pimentoes, 6 fresh mushrooms sliced fine, saute in 
butter, then add 10 to 12 well beaten eggs. Mix eggs with 2 to 
3 spoons of cream, season with salt and pepper, stir constantly 
while adding eggs. Serve hot on toast, 

1301. CREAMED SHRIMPS. 

Take 2 tablespoonfuls each of flour and butter, and heat them 
until they bubble ; add 1 cup of cream, % teaspoonful of salt, d. 
dash of paprika, i/^ teaspoonful of lemon juic£, and % pound of 
shelled shrimps. Let cook about five minutes ; add 1 cup of stewed 
tomatoes, and cook for three minutes more. 

1302. CREAMED PEAS. 

Take a pint of cooked green peas. Heat them up in boiling 
water containing salt and a sprig of green mint. Strain ofif the 
water and put the peas into the chafing-dish with 3 or 4 table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Season with salt and peppetj.and a pinch 
of sugar ; add 1 dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley and stir 
carefully over the flame till the peas and cream are thoroughly 
hot, but not boiling. A little fresh butter may also be added to 
the peas if liked. 

1303. WELSH RABBIT. 

Cut into shreds ^ pound cheese, put into chafing-dish with 
1 ounce of butter and 3 tablespoonfuls of ale, or if milk is pre- 
ferred use it in place of ale ; add 1 dessertspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce, 1 saltspoonful dry mustard and % saltspoonful of 
Cayenne pepper. Blend the ingredients thoroughly and stir con- 
stantly till the cheese has melted and the mixture is quite creamy. 
Have ready some slices of toasted bread, trimmed and buttered, 
place them on a hot dish and pour over the cheese mixture. Serve 
hot. Must be eaten at once, or cheese becomes leathery. 



DEPARTMENT 24 379 

1304. OYSTER STEW CHAFING DISH STYLE. 

Cut 3 branches of celery in cubes (dice shaped), put a piece of 
butter size of a walnut in pan and brown, then add celery, season 
with salt, pepper and paprika, then add 2 dozen oysters with juice. 
Cook for ten minutes and then add 1 quart boiling cream. 



1305. TRIPE A LA CREOLE. 

Take 1 lb. of onions sliced fine, put on fire with 2 spoons of 
sweet oil, 2 ounces butter and let smother until nice and yellow; 
slice 3 green peppers, 6 fresh mushrooms, 6 peeled tomatoes, 1 
dozen olives, 2 or 3 cloves of garlic and let cook slowly for one-halt 
hour, then add 2 pounds of tripe sliced thin, tripe having been 
previously well boiled ; season with salt, pepper and a little sugar. 



1306. KIDNEY AU MADERE. 

Take 8 lamb kidneys, skinned and cleaned, cut them in thin 
slices, chop up 1 small onion very fine, put in pan 2 ounces butter 
when hot add the kidneys well seasoned.. Cook on quick fire. 
When well fried, sprinkle over a little flour. Add glass of sherry 
and stock. Let boil one minute, finish with small piece sweet 
butter, the juice of one lemon and chopped parsley. 



1307. LOBSTER NEWBURG. 

Heat the meat of 2 boiled lobsters in a chafing-dish (using the 
double boiler) together with 1 large tablespoonful of butter, 1 
teaspoonful salt and a pinch of paprika (Hungarian pepper), stir- 
ring frequently. When well heated, after four or five minutes, 
add 1 wineglassful of Madeira or sherry wine, beat 3 yolks of 
eggs with 1 cup of cream, stir slowly into the cooking mass and 
serve as soon as the egg is nearly set. Will prove satisfactory if 
prepared according to directions. Crabs, shrimps, prepared terra- 
pin, cooked chicken or boiled fish may be treated in the same way. 




Copyright. moS.byWm. H.Lee, 




Department 25. 

THE young bride is often confronted with difficulties and discouragement 
on account of the lack of sufficient experience to judge accurately as 
to the proper proportion or quantity required for a meal for two persons. 
The object of this department, therefore, is to meet such emergency. The 
f ecipes have been gathered from the various branches of cookery with the aim of 
supplying the information in a form adapted to the requirements of one couple. 
The recipes, however, can be changed to meet the needs of three, four, five or 
more persons. To obtain the best results select good, wholesome food, prepare 
and cook properly, and serve so as to make the meal appetizing and enjoyable. 



1308. THE IDEAL BEAN SOUP. 

Take 1 cup dried beans, 2 quarts 'water, J^ tablespoonful 
sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful flour; salt and 
pepper to taste. Soak beans over night in 3 quarts of cold 
water. Next morning drain ; put into soup pot with 2 quarts fresh 
water, salt pork cut dice shape, the neck and parts of a chicken 
usually left on platter, and a few bay leaves and pieces of red 
pepper tied in a bag. The chicken may be omitted if desired. Let 
simmer for four or five hours or until beans are perfectly soft, 
adding water from time to time if necessary. When nearly done 
add flour and butter previously cooked together, adding a little 

381 



382 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

of the soup to give smoothness and to hold it together, otherwise 
the particles of beans are liable to separate. One small onion may 
be boiled with the beans if desired. 

1309. BEEF SOUP. 

Cut all the lean off the shank, and with a little beef suet in 
the bottom of the kettle, fry to a nice brown ; put in the bones and 
cover with water ; cover the kettle closely ; let cook slowly until 
the meat drops from the bones; strain through a colander and 
leave in dish during the night, which is the only way to get off 
all the fat. The day it is wanted for the table, fry as brown as 
possible, 1 carrot, 1 onion and 1 small turnip sliced thin. Just 
before taking up, put in % teaspoonful of sugar, 1 blade of mace, 
6 cloves, 12 kernels of allspice, 1 teaspoonful of celery seed. 
With the vegetables this must cook slowly in the soup an hour; 
then strain again for the table. 

1310. OYSTER SOUP. 

Take 1 pint of water, ^ teacup of butter, % pint of milk, 1 
teaspoonful of salt, 2 crackers rolled fine and % teaspoonful of 
pepper ; bring to a full boiling heat as soon as possible, then add 
1 pint of oysters; let the whole come to boiling heat quickly; 
remove from the fire and serve. 

1311. EGG DUMPLINGS FOR SOUPS. 

Take 1 pint of milk, 2 well-beaten eggs, and flour enough 
to make a smooth thick batter. Drop a tablespoonful at a time 
into the boiling soup, when ready to serve. 

1312. BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Cut the fish open ; put in dripping pan, with the back down ; 
nearly cover with water; to 1 fish put 2 tablespoons salt; cover 
tightly and let simmer (not boil) one-half hour; dress with the 
gravy, butter and pepper ; garnish with sliced eggs. 

For sauce use a piece of butter the size of an egg, 1 table- 



DEPARTMENT 25 383 

spoon of flcur, i/^ pint of boiling water ; boil a few minutes, and 
add three hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and serve. 

1313. BROILED FISH OF ANY KIND. 

Wash and drain the fish; sprinkle with pepper and lay with 
the inside down upon the gridiron, and broil over fresh bright 
coals. When a nice brown, turn for a moment on the other side, 
then take up and spread with butter. Serve hot. 

1314. STEWED OYSTERS. 

In all cases, unless shell oysters, wash and drain ; mix l^ cup 
of butter and 2 teaspoonfuls of corn starch; put with 1 pint 
oysters in porcelain kettle; stir until boil; add 1 cup of weam 
or milk ; salt to taste ; do not use the liquor of the oysters. 

1315. CREAMED OYSTERS. 

To 1 pint of oysters take % pint of cream or milk; thicken 
with a little flour, as if for gravy; when cooked, pour in the 
oysters with the liquor; pepper, salt and butter the mixture. 
Have ready a platter with slices of nicely browned toast; pour 
creamed oysters on toast and serve hot. 

131G. SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter the dish (common earthen pie-plates are the best), 
cover the bottom of the dish with fine bread crumbs; add a 
layer of oysters ; season with pepper and salt ; alternate crumbs 
and oysters until there are 3 layers; finish with crumbs; cover 
top with small pieces of butter; finish around the edge with 
bread cut into small oblong pieces dipped in butter; bake half 
an hour. 

1317. CLAM FRITTERS. 

Take 13 clams, chopped or not, as preferred, 1 pint of milk, 3 
eggs ; add the liquor from clams, salt and pepper, and flour enough 
for thin batter. Fry in hot lard. 



384 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1318. FRIED SCALLOPS. 

A species of shell fish so named on account of the shelj being 
scalloped shape. The scallops are sold in the market free from 
the shell and in most cases should be cut up to a size of from % 
mch to 1 inch. Before cooking, scallops should be dried with a 
napkin or cloth. Considered a delicacy. 

The Scallops are usually covered with a batter, made of bread 
crumbs and egg and then fried in the ordinary fashion. A pint 
of scallops should make enough for three or four persons. 

Easily digested, and if cooked properly, will make a good 
addition to a meal — especially at luncheon. 

1319. CREAMED SWEETBREADS, MARYLAND STYLE. 

Put sweetbreads on the fire in warm water with a pinch of 
salt and parboil slpwly for ten or fifteen minutes till tender. Take 
off and remove pieces of skin and cut in cubes (dice shape), 
about Yz inch and let cool. (Dressing as below). 

1320. DRESSING FOR SWEETBREADS. 

For two sweetbreads put 1 pint of milk in double boiler and 
let come to a boil ; season with little salt and pepper. Cream 
butter size of walnut with 1 tablespoonful flour ; add a little cream 
and stir into the hot milk ; add sweetbreads with little parsley 
chopped fine and let mixture become thoroughly hot. Serve with 
or without toast in hot covered dish. 

1321. ROAST BEEF. 

Smallest rib roast weighs, when stripped of bone and rolled, 
about 3 pounds. Prepare for the oven by dredging lightly with 
flour, and seasoning with salt and pepper ; place in the oven, and 
baste frequently while roasting. Allow a quarter of an hour 
for each pound of meat, if rare meat is preferred, but longer if 
desired well done. Serve Tvith a sauce, made from the drippings 
of the pan, to which has beSn added a tablespoonful of Harvey or 
Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoonful of tomato ketchup. 
Thicken with browned flour, and serve in a gravy boat. 



DEPARTMENT 25 385 

1322. VEAL CUTLETS, BREADED. 

t 

Cut the veal in small pieces three or four inches square ; dry 
with a towel ; season to taste ; have ready a beaten egg and crack- 
ers rolled fine, each on separate dishes ; dip the pieces of cutlet in 
the egg, then in the rolled cracker; have enough lard or butter 
hot in the spider so that it will nearly cover the cutlets when 
put in. A rich gravy can be made after the meat is done, by add- 
ing a little boiling water. Resemble fried oysters. Serve hot. 

1323. BROILED OR ROAST CHICKEN, 

Cut chicken open and lay flat in pan, breaking down the 
breast and back bones; dredge with flour and season well with 
salt and pepper, with bits of butter ; put in a hot oven until done, 
basting frequently with melted butter; or when half done take 
out the chicken and finish by broiling it upon a gridiron over 
bright coals ; pour over it melted butter and the juices of the pan 
in which it has been baked. 

1324. QUAIL ON TOAST. 

After the bird is nicely cleaned, cut open down the back ; salt 
and pepper, and dredge vrith flour. Break down the breast and 
back bones, so it will lie flat, and place in a pan with a little 
water and butter in a hot oven, covering it up tightly until nearly 
done. Then place in a spider in hot butter, and fry a moment to 
a nice brown. Have ready slices of baker's bread toasted and 
slightly buttered, upon a platter. The toast should be broken 
down with a carving knife, so that it will be tender. On this 
place the quail; make sauce of the gravy in the pan, thicken 
slightly with browned flour, and pour over the quail and the toast. 

1325. MINT SAUCE. 

Mix 1 tablespoonful white sugar to % teacup good vinegar, 
1 bunch of mint and 3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. A tablespoonful 
ketchup imprcfves the taste. Nice for Spring lamb or boiled fish. 



386 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1326. EGG SAUCE. 

Take the yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard ; wash with 1 teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, a little pepper and salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar, and 3 of salad oil. A tablespoonful of ketchup improves the 
dish for some. Nice for boiled fish. 

1327. MADE MUSTARD. 

Pour a little boiling water over 3 tablespoonfuls of mustard ; 
add 1 saltspoon of salt, 1 tablespoonful of olive oil, stirred slowly 
in, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar ; add the yolk of 1 egg, beaten well 
together, and pour in vinegar to taste. It is best and more appe- 
tizing if eaten the day after cooking. 

1328. COMBINATION SALADS. 

Combination salads consist of a simple salad, combined with 
some sort of cold meat or cold fish. (See Dept. 8. Salads). 

* 1329. THE BRIDE'S SALAD. 

Peel 1 average sized apple or if larger yi or 1/3, cut dice 
shape, also J^ the quantity of pineapple and about a tablespoon- 
ful of the meats of cracked nuts (pecans or hickory nuts pre- 
ferred). Mix slightly together. Then spread over a regular 
sized salad plate the leaves of fresh crisp lettuce. Place fruits 
and nuts in center of plate to form a kind of pyramid. Then 
place on the top a few strips of fresh cocoanut cut thin. Pour 
over all a sufficient quantity of whipped cream and put on top 2 
or 3 cherries or strawberries. A little grated nutmeg sprinkled 
over, helps to complete the finishing touch. If prepared daintily, 
the different fruits give a delicious flavor. The apples should be 
ripe and mellow and the other ingredients of the best quality, 
Different from most salads because free from oil. The above pro- 
portions are intended for individual plates. 



DEPARTMENT 25 387 

1330. CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil the fowl tender, and remove all the fat, gristle and skin ; 
mince both light and dark meat, to which add the juice of 1 
lemon, 4 eggs boiled hard — the whites chopped fine and the yolks 
mashed fine, moistened with 3 teaspoonfuls of melted butter, 1 
of olive oil ; to which add 2 teaspoonfuls of mustard, 2 of pepper, 
2 of salt, 2 of sugar, 6 of cream, and last add 3 large stalks of 
celery chopped fine, with sufficient vinegar to moisten the whole. 

1331. WALDORF SALAD. 

To 1 large bunch of chicory leaves (the root commonly used 
as a substitute for coffee) and ^ pound Roquefort cheese, add 1 
cupful of French dressing, (See Dept. 8, Rec. 477). In case the 
chicory cannot be had, lettuce may be substituted. Sufficient 
for four persons. For two persons reduce the quantities one-half. 
If too much cheese take one half the quantity and substitute a 
few pieces of celery and cucumbers, for the other half, or small 
pieces of ripe, mellow apple can be used with the full quantity of 
cheese, if desired. Inexpensive and quickly prepared, 

1332. COMBINATION CELERY AND SHRIMP SALAD. 

Take 1 quart of boiled and skinned shrimps, lay them in deep 
dish, season with pinch of salt, % pinch of pepper, and 1 table- 
spoonful of vinegar ; add several stalks of celery cut up. Mix well 
together, then transfer to a salad bowl, and pour over Yz cupful 
of mayonnaise dressing; decorate with 2 hard-boiled eggs cut 
into quarters, 6 leaves of lettuce, 13 stoned olives, and 1 table- 
spoonful of capers (flower buds used as relish). The salad is 
then ready to serve. (See Recipe No. 443, Dept. 8). 

1333. IMPERIAL FRUIT SALAD. 

Take l^ cup each of pineapple, orange, banana and apple, cut 
into small pieces, dice shape, J4 cup white grapes cut in halves, 
Yi cup of strawberries cut in quarters, and J4 cup Maraschino 
cherries cut into quarters. Have all ingredients and mixing bowl 



388 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

ice cold. Ingredients may be measured and set on ice until 
serving time. Mix the materials for the dressing and beat until an 
emulsioa (consistency of milk), is formed. Pour over the fruit 
arranged on crisp, lettuce leavCs. To make lettuce leaves crisp, 
let them stand in ice-cold water for 20 minutes. Then shake off 
water carefully and place between folds of napkin or towel and 
lay on ice until ready to serve, place a spoonful of whipped cream 
on each and a whole Maraschino cherry (European wild cherry). 
Serve with wafers. For four persons double the above quantity 
and for a larger number proportionately. 

1334. DRESSING FOR SALAD. 

Mix together % cup olive oil, % cup Maraschino wine (made 
from the cherry), 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, and ^ table- 
spoonful of sugar. Proportion the quantity of sauce to number 
of persons to be served. 

1335. FISH SALAD. 

Boil tender a small white fish or trout; chop fine; add same 
quantity of chopped celery, and seasoning as for chicken salad. 

1336. BREAD AND LIGHT BISCUITS. 

Take 1 quart water, flour to make stiff dough ; add 3/3 yeast 
cake, 3 teaspoons salt, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 oz. lard or butter. 
Raise in warm place two hours. Makes four one-pound loaves. If 
but one loaf is required, use 1/4 of dough for bread, and bake re- 
mainder in form of light biscuits. 

1337. THE BEST BREAD. 

Take 4 potatoes mashed fine, 4 teaspoonfuls of salt, 3 quarts 
of luke warm milk, y^. cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in V^ 
cup of warm water ; add flour enough to make a pliable dough ; 
mold with hands well greased with lard; place in pans, and when 
sufficiently light, it is ready for baking. 



DEPARTMENT 25 389 

1338. EXCELLENT BISCUITS. 

Take 2 large cups of flour, 2 teaspooftfuls of baking-powder, 
1 teaspoonful of sugar, % teaspoonful of salt, 1 egg, 1 cupful of 
sweet milk, 1 tablespoonful of butter. Cut into small biscuits, 
handle lightly, and bake in a quick oven. 

1339. FRENCH ROLLS. 

Take 1 quart of flour, add 2 eggs, i^ pint of milk, 1 table- 
spoonful of yeast; knead well; raise till morning. Work in 1 
oz. of butter, and mold in small rolls ; bake immediately. 

1340. WAFFLES, VIRGINIA STYLE. 

Beat 1 egg till light; add y^ pint of milk, and stir in slowly 
^ pints of sifted flour, stir till light ; melt butter ^ size of an e'^g 
and pour in mixture ; add ^ teaspoonful of sugar and J4 pinch 
of salt; stir well again, and add about J^ teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Have waffle irons hot and grease well with lard before 
baking waffles. Sufficient for two persons. If more are to be 
served, increase the quantities proportionately. 

1341. GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Take 1 cup of sour milk, Yz teaspoonful of soda, 1 beaten egg, 
1 tablespoonful of melted butter, pinch of salt, 2i/^ tablespoonfuls 
of cornmeal, Yz cup of flour. Bake on a hot griddle. 

1342. RYE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Stir into sour milk sufficient rye flour to make batter for grid- 
dle cakes ; add salt, and a little soda, and bake on hot griddle. 

. 1343. DELICIOUS FRUIT CAKE. 

Take 1 cupful of butter, IJ^ cupfuls of dark-brown sugar, 3 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, Y2 lb- of raisins, seeded, 
1/2 lb. of currants, washed and dried, Yi lb. of citron cut in thin 
strips ; also Yi cupful of cooking molasses, ^4 cupful of sour milk. 



390 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add ^4 grated nutmeg, % 
table&poonful of ground cinnamon, % teaspoonful of cloves, Y2 
teaspoonful of mace (outside covering of nutmeg) ; add the mo- 
lasses and sour milk. Stir well; then put in the beaten yolks 
of tgg, % wine-glassful of brandy; stir again thoroughly, and 
then add 2 cupfuls of sifted flour, alternately with the beaten 
whites of eggs. Now dissolve 1 teaspoonful of soda, and stir in 
thoroughly. Mix the fruit together, and stir into it a heaping 
tablespoonful of flour ; then stir it in the cake. Butter a common- 
sized baking tin carefully, line with letter-paper well buttered, 
and bake in a moderate oven. After it is done, let it cool in pan. 



1344. FIG CAKE, 

Beat to a cream 1 cupful of sugar, 1/3 cupful of butter ; then 
add yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten, j4 cup of cold water, and 
add 1% cups of flour and IJ-^ teaspoonfuls of baking-powder 
mixed with the flour ; then add the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, and last add yi lb. of chopped figs well dredged 
(sprinkled) with flour. The remaining two whites of eggs can 
be used for icing. Bake in moderate oven. 

1345. WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Take the whites of 5 eggs, 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of sugar, 1 
teaspoonful of baking-powder. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in a 
hot oven quickly. 

1346. CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Take 1 cup of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup of milk, 4 eggs, 2 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder ; flavor to suit taste. 

Filling and icing for same : Take % cup of grated chocolate, 
1 cup of sugar, ^4 cup of milk, butter the size of an English 
walnut. Mix and put on stove to boil. Boil ten minutes and 
let cool, stirring occasionally. When cool put between layers and 
on the top of the cake. Keep in stone jar if any left over. 



UEPARTMENT 25 391 

1347. THE GROOM'S CAKE. 

Take the whites^ of 22 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 J/^ pounds 
butter and 2 pounds of flour (flour butter and cream together), 
2 pounds white sugar ; bake quickly. (Bride's Cake, page 259.) 

1348. LEMON PIE. 

For. one pie, take 1 large lemon, the yolk of 2 eggs, 1 cup of 
sugar, y^, cup of cold water, 1 teaspoonful of butter. 

Icing for the same: Whites of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
pulverized sugar; brown nicely in moderate oven. 

1349. NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Take 1 pint shelled almonds, I^ pints shelled chestnuts, 1 
pint cream, 1 pint pineapples, % pound French candied fruit, 1 
tablespoonful candied orange peel (pulverized), 1 tablespoonful 
Vanilla extract, 4 tablespoonfuls Brandy or Sherry wine, yolks 
of 10 eggs, 1 pint water, 1 pint sugar. Blanch the almonds and 
pound to a paste. Boil the chestnuts J^ hour, then rub off the 
black skin and pound to a paste. Boil the water, sugar and juice 
from the pineapple for twenty minutes ; beat the yolks of the 
eggs and stir into the syrup beating all with an egg-beater until 
it thickens, take off and set in basin of cold water and beat ten 
minutes more ; mix the almonds and chestnuts with the cream and 
rub all through a sieve, add fruit and pineapple cut fine, mix this 
with the cooked mixture, add the flavor and a half teaspoonful of 
salt. Freeze the same as ice cream. 

The above will make two quarts — enough for six persons — one 
quart for two or three persons. Considered delicious. 

1350. RICE PUDDING. 

Take 1 pint of milk, with 1 tablespoonful of rice ; let come to 
a boil; then pour it over a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, 1/3 
cup of raisins, small lump of butter, flavor with ground cinna- 
mon. Bake until thick. Serve hot or cold. 



393 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

1351. WHIPPED CREAM. 

Whip 1 cup sweet cream to a stiff froth, sweeten and flavor to 
taste ; the cream will froth more readily if put on ice one half hour 
before whipping. Rich cream may be reduced one-half. 

1352. APPLE CUSTARD OR PUDDING. 

Take 6 apples, peel, stew and sweeten ; then cover with custard 
made of 2 tablespoons sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, 3 cups of milk, 1 
teaspoon vanilla, and bake till firm, 

1353. CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Cook 1 oz. of loaf sugar in copper pan to a light brown color, 
add quickly y^ pint of syrup, flavor with vanilla essence or pod, 
and reduce a little. About five minutes before serving stir in 1 
dessertspoonful of arrowroot-flour, mixed with a little cold milk 
or cream, 

1354. MERINGUE I?:iSSES. 

Take the whites of 6 eggs, add a pinch of salt and beat till stiff 
and dry, then add 3 cups of sugar, beat carefully, drop in ^^% 
shapes on unbuttered paper, bake in slow oven one. hour, remove 
from paper by damping underneath, press in the flat side with the 
thumb, fill with whipped cream, to which has been added chopped 
walnuts and fresh or canned fruit, placing two together. The 
above will make from 13 to 15 good-sized kisses. 

1355. THE STANDARD CRANBERRY SHERBET. 

Take 1 quart cranberries, wash thoroughly, cover with water 
and boil five minutes, put through sieve, add sugar measure for 
measure. Let come to a boil ; remove from fire, add juice of two 
lemons and 1 pint cold water. When cold freeze in usual man- 
ner. To make extra fine, add beaten whites of 3 eggs when 
partly frozen. The above proportions are intended for six per- 
sons ; for two or three, y^ the quantity ; for nine or ten, add Yz the 
■quantity required for six. Most appropriate with turkey dinner. 




Department 26. 

FRUITS, as distinguished from nuts and vegetables, are divided into two 
classes: ' 1. FLESHY — including apples, pears, oranges, berries, and 
similar fruits. 2. DRUPACEOUS — including peaches, plums, cherries, 
and all other kinds containing stones. The principal varieties only can be 
given here, including such as are most used in Qookery and for the table. 
Other well-known varieties include apricots, bananas, blackberries, blueberries, 
cherries, citrons, cranberries, currants, dates, figs, gooseberries, grape-fruit, 
mangos, mulberries, nectarines, olives, pomegranates, quinces, raspberries and 
strawberries. Authorities differ as to the wholesomeness of the various kinds 
of fruit, but no doubt it will be safe to eat freely of fresh ripe fruit in season. 

APPLES. 

Apples are in season the year round, and the uses to which they 
are applied for the table are too numerous to describe. When used 
as a sauce for meats their piquant flavor is unequaled by that of 
any other fruit. The best eating-apples are the pippins, genitings, 
and russets ; for cooking purposes the Baldwins and greenings. 



PEACHES. 

There are many varieties of this luscious fruit, all belonging 
to one species (Prunus Persica). Peaches are divided into two 



393 



394 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

general varieties, the freestones and the clingstones. The free- 
stones are best for table use and the clingstones for cooking. 
Among the leading varieties are the Admiral, Early Crawford, 
Late Crawford, and Lovett. 

. PEARS. 

The varieties of pears are numerous, the most popular of which 
are the Bartlett and Seckel. ' Besides its use for the table the pear 
is used in cookery for stewing, baking, compotes, and for making 
perry (pear cider, made from the expressed juice of pears). 

PINE-APPLES. 

The pine-apple, the fruit of a tropical plant (Ananas sativa), 
has long been regarded one of the most delicious of fruits. Pine- 
apples can be used for many culinary purposes, and the canned 
ones are nearly as good as the fresh for cooking. 

PLUMS. 

There are many varieties of plums, all belonging to the Prunus 
family. Among the ones most used are the green gages, egg 
plums, and some varieties of the wild plum. 

ORANGES. 

There are several varieties of oranges. The naval orange of 
California is seedless, and is highly esteemed throughout the 
world. The mandarin orange is small, flattened, with a thin rind, 
which separates spontaneously from the pulp. It is exceedingly 
rich and sweet. The tangerine is a descendant of the mandarin, 
and similar in character. Oranges are refreshing and wholesome. 

LEMONS. 

Of all the fruits the lemon is the most important in cookery, 
and no successful attempt has ever been made to provide an arti- 
ficial substitute for it. Not only is it useful itself in cookery, as 
for making pies, but its juice is used extensively for flavoring and 
acidulating drinks and confectionery, and for other purposes. 



DEPARTMENT 26 395 

GRAPE-FRUIT. 

Grape-fruit is so named from its grapelike flavor. 

Some varieties of this wholesome tropical fruit grow to a 
large size, weighing from ten to twenty pounds. The smaller 
kind are known as "forbidden fruit," and resemble large oranges, 
with a smooth, thin, pale yellow rind. The pulp is either white 
or a pale red, and of a pleasant sub-acid flavor. Grape-fruit should 
be cut cross instead of lengthwise, and the seeds taken out before 
serving. A unique way would be to prepare over night without 
removing the rind. Sprinkle sugar on to taste and pour a little 
wine over it. If this is done only two hours and a half before 
serving, the fruit will have a i^eddish color, resembling the wine. 



MELONS. 

The native country of the melon is unknown, but there are 
numerous varieties found throughout Europe, Asia, and America. 
The two principal kinds of melons grown in the United States 
are the muskmelon (Cucumis Melo) and the watermelon (Citrul- 
lus vulgaris) . The citron is a variety of watermelon. 

The melon reaches its greatest perfection in warm climates, 
but several varieties are successfully cultivated as far north as 
New England. The edible part of the best varieties of water- 
melon is usually of a deep red color, and the seeds black. 

Melons usually ripen in July, and watermelons when thor- 
oughly ripe should give out a hollow sound when thumped with 
the fingers. The practice of plugging the melon is not recom- 
mended, as it is liable to cause melon to sour. 

A kind of small, ribbed muskmelon is called canteloupe, of 
which there are several varieties, among the most popular being 
the nutmeg and osage melons. The odor of the fruit is delicious. 
The edible part is usually either of a green or orange color and 
has a sweet and delicious taste when thoroughly ripe. 

Watermelons and muskmelons are not only delicious if ripe 
and properly served, but are considered healthful and nutritious. 

Before serving, the melons should be kept long enough on ice 



396 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

to beconle cold. Like all other fruit, the melon should be thor- 
oughly ripe and free from decay. Water melons should be cut 
in proper sized slices either the long way or crosswise, and musk- 
melons of the small kind cut in halves, and the larger ones cut 
into slices. Melons when in season, should be served several 
times during the week, especially for breakfast. 

NUTS. 

Nuts are distinguished from other fruits by having a hard 
shell, containing a kernel more or less pleasing to the taste. 

Among the nuts of greatest importance are almonds, English 
walnuts, Brazil nuts, hickory nuts, pecans, filberts or hazel nuts, 
chestnuts, cocoanuts, peanuts, and black walnuts. 

Almonds are of two principal kinds — sweet almonds and bit- 
ter almonds. Sweet almonds are commonly eaten with raisins. 
Bitter almonds are smaller and thicker than the sweet variety, 
and, as they contain prussic acid, are considered poisonous if 
taken in large quantities, and in small quantities are poisonous 
to some people. 

English walnuts are by many preferred to all other nuts.. 
The flavor is rich, sweet and juicy. Those with a thin shell are 
considered the best. Of all the nuts the cocoanut is the most im- 
portant. In some countries it is largely used as food, is often 
eaten fresh froin the tree, and is preserved in various ways. 

Chestnuts have an agreeable flavor, are easily cooked, and 
more digestible than other nuts. 

Hickory nuts and pecans are among the finest nuts for cakes. 

Filberts are a variety of large hazel nut, and have a rich flavor 
but are not considered wholesome because not easily digested. 

Brazil nuts have creamy white kernels and when obtained 
fresh are exceedingly delicious, but containing so much oil they 
soon become rancid. 

Peanuts when fresh and roasted are palatable and wholesome, 
and in tropical America and Africa, as well as in Asia, they form 
a valuable article of food. Peanuts yield a large quantity of oil, 
which forms an excellent substitute for olive oil. 




Department 27. 

THE French term "menu" signifies "detail," and is synonymous with "bill 
of fare." To put together a menu appropriate for the occasion and 
season, requires thought, invention and combination. A menu artistically 
composed shows simplicity, taste and originality. For convenience a few 
menus have been selected, but any one of them can be varied according to 
circumstances. If the combination of the different materials comprising a dish 
is not understood, consult the recipe in the body of the book under its proper 
department. The best materials, of course, must be used to insure success. 

JANUARY 

Clam Soup 

Roast Turkey, Bread Stuffing 
Mashed Potatoes Parsnips 

Celery 

Cranberry Sherbet 

Mince or Custard Pie Cracked Nuts 

Coffee Demi-Tasse Tea 



Bouillon in Cups 

Boiled Haddock, Mustard Sauce 
Stewed Onions Baked Potato 

French Pancake Imperial Fruit Salad 

Fairy Food, Assorted Cake 

Cocoa Coffee Tea 

397 



398 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Tomato Soup 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce 
Artichokes, Jerusalem French Fried Potatoes 

Nuts and Raisins Bnide's Salad Brie Cheese 

Tea Coffee 



Cream of Corn 



Mutton Chops Mashed Turnips 
Baked Sweet Potatoes Pi_ccalilli 

Cocoanut Pie Floating Island 

Tea Coffee Cocoa 



Vegetable Soup 

Roast Beef French Fried Potatoes 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Beet Salad Cheese Wafers 

Cottage Pudding Cardinal Sauce 

Assorted Nuts 

' Tea Coffee 



Clear Tomato Soup 

Broiled Steak Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Cauliflower 

Cold Slaw Graham Crackers 

Pumpkin Pie Roquefort Cheese 

Tea Coffee Chocolate 



DEPARTMENT 27 399 

Roast Leg of Mutton Potatoes Baked 

Stewed Parsnips 

Merry Widow Salad Cream Dressing 

Fruit Pudding Cranberry Pie 

Tea Coffee Chocolate 



Consomme with Macaroni Rings 

Veal Fricassee Mashed Potatoes 

Gherkins 

Prune Pudding Wafers 

Coffee Milk 



Cream of Celery Soup Croutons 

Beef Pot Roast, Gravy 

Onions Baked Salsify Creamed 

Pickled Beets 

Lemon Jelly Fruit Cake 

Tea or Coffee 



Rice Soup Suet Dumplings 

Broiled Steak Potato Soufflte 

Browned Turnips 

Bride's Salad Wafers 

Tapioca Pudding 

Small Coffee 



400 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

FEBRUARY 

Cream of Celery 

Fricassee of Tongue 
Fried Parsnips Saratoga Potatoes 



Custard Pie Orange Pudding 


Nuts and Raisins 


Chocolate 


Soup a I'Aurore 


Pickles 


Baked Ham Puree of Peas 
Mashed Potatoes Sauer Kraut 


Fruit Salad 


Coffee 



Egg Soup 

New England Boiled Dinner 

Celery Salad 

Grapes Baked Indian Pudding 

Cheese 
Chocolate Coffee Tea 



DEPARTMENT 27 401 



Bean Soup 



Baked Cod, Egg Sauce Baked Cabbage 

Potato Salad 

Nuts and Raisins Suet Pudding, Hard Sauce 

Chocolate Tea Coffee 



Bouillon 



Veal Cutlets Baked ' Bread Dressing 

Escalloped Tomatoes Potatoes Baked 

Cabbage Salad 

Apple Dumplings Hard Sauce 

Coffee Cocoa 



Chicken Broth Macaroni Rings 

Escalloped Oysters Parker House Rolls 

Celery Fritters 

Celery Salad Cheese 

Crackers 

, Cranberry Tart 

Coffee 



Boiled Chicken Oyster Sauce 

Sweet Potatoes Baked 

Cold Slaw Cheese Wafers 

Boiled Apple Dumplings 

Coffee Tea 



403 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

MARCH 

Cider Soup 

Roast Duck, Curant Jelly Squash 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes Rice Croquettes 

Pickled Beet Salad 

Pumpkin Pie Cranberry Pie 

Coffee, Demi-Tasse 



Oyster Soup 

Baked Shad, Drawn Butter Sauce 
Boiled Potatoes Browned Turnips 

Lobster Salad 

Nuts and Raisins Red Pudding, Vanilla Sauce 

Tea 



Consommee with Macaroni 

Pickles 

Fricassee of Veal Saratoga Potatoes 
Baked Sweet Potatoes Asparagus 

Lemon Meringue Pie Cheese 

Coflfee 



DEPARTMENT 37 403 

Potato Soup 

Boiled Spareribs, Sauer Kraut 
Fried Potatoes 

Charlotte Russe Cocoanut Pie 

Coffee Tea 



Cream of Cfelery Soup Croutons 

Roast Chicken Rice Boiled 

Asparagus Creamed Potatoes 

Fruit Salad Layer Cake 

Black Coffee 



Tomato Soup 

Roast Beef, Brown Gravy 

Potatoes Roasted with Beef Peas 

Chocolate Charlotte 

Coffee 



Mutton Broth 

Baked Calf's Head Scalloped Tomatoes 

Stewed Oyster Plant 

Merry Widow Salad 

Flummery 

Tea Coffee Chocolate 



404 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

White Bean Soup 



Beef Loaf 
Macaroni Balls 



Tomato Sauce 
Bro\vned Sweet Potatoes 



Orange Salad French Dressing 

Canned Strawberry Short Cake 
Assorted Fruit Nuts 
Coffee 



Raw Oysters 

Lamb Roast 
Es'calloped Potatoes 

Peach Pudding 

Coffee 



Chili Sauce 

Mint Jelly 
Canned Peas 

Whipped Cream 

Tea 



Clear Soup 



Creamed Codfish 
Boiled Onions 



Potato Puflf 



Tea 



Cottage Cheese 
Cabbage -Salad 
Black Pudding 

Coffee Chocolate 



DEPARTMENT 2? 40' 

APRIL 

White Soup 

Roast Mutton Potatoes Au Gratin 

Mountain Trout 

Brussels Sprouts Lettuce Salad 

Baked Apple Dumpling, Wine Sauce 

Chocolate 



Celery Soup 

Squab Chicken New Potatoes 

Cauliflower 

Orange Salad 

Cheese Straws 

Coffee 



Chicken Broth 

Roast Quail, Currant Jelly 
Spinach 

Lobster Salad 

Baked Apples Cake 

Coffee Tea 



•406 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Brown Mock Turtle Soup 

Salmon Cutlets, Holland Sauce 

Leg of Lamb, Caper Sauce 
Sweet Corn Turnips 

Tomato Salad 

Tapioca Pudding Apple Pie 

Tea Coffee Chocolate 



Clam Bisque 

Broiled Fish Creamed Carrots 

Mashed Potatoes Water Cress 

Orange Salad 

Custard Cups Sponge Cake 

Coffee 



Chicken Stew with Dumplings 
Spinach with Butter Sauce Baked Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad Rolls 

Rhubarb Pie Cheese 

Small Coffee 



DEPARTMENT 27 407 

Club Clam Soup 

Roast Lamb Mint Sauce 
Buttered Peas Corn Oysters 

Lettuce Salad 

Lemon Short Cake 

Tea or Coffee 



Stock Tomato Soup 
Celery 

Breaded Veal Cutlets Milk Rice 

Asparagus on Toast Mashed Potatoes 

Waldorf Salad Wafers 

Butter Pie Cheese 

Coffee 



Vegetable Cream Soup 

Roast Beef Yorkshire Pudding 

Creamed Carrots Radishes 

Lettuce Salad 



Tapioca Pudding 


Whipped Cream 


Cocoa 


Coffee 


Corn 


Soup 


Chicken Fried in Cream 
Wax Beans Creamed Potatoes 


Fruit Salad 


Cookies and Cakes 


Cocoa 


Coffee 



d08 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

MAY 

Rice Soup 

Spring Chicken, Boiled Potatoes 
Asparagus Beet Greens 

Radish and Lettuce Salad 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Cocoa Coflfee Tea 



Vegetable Soup 

Broiled Squab, Apple Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes 

Dandelion Salad 

Rhubarb Pie Bread Pudding 

Tea Chocolate 



Pea Soup 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Lamb Chops, Green Peas Cold Slaw 

Creamed Potatoes 

Strawberries in Cream 

Coffee 



DEPARTMENT sr 400 

Tomato Soup 

Boiled Brook Trout New Potatoes 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce 
Asparagus Spinach 

Rice Pudding, Fruit Sauce 

Tea 



Green Pea and Tomato Soup 

Fish au Gratin Potato PufF 

Summer Squash Sliced Cucumbers 

Apple and Nut Salad 

Custard Pie Cheese 

Black Coffee 



Clear Soup 



Baked Beef Tongue, Horseradish 
New Potatoes with Cream Spinach 

Strawberry Salad Wafers 

Tea Coffee 



Roast Duck, Dressing 

Baked Potatoes Browned Parsnips 

Asparagus 

Lettuce Salad Edam Cheese 

Lemon Pie Apple Pie 

Coffee 



410 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Grape. Fruit 

Roast Veal Brown Gravy 

iLyonnaise Potatoes Gooseberry Jam 

Asparagus 

Apple Salad 

Meringues with Whipped Cream 

Vienna Coffee 



Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Veal Cutlets Spinach with Kale 
Mashed Potatoes Whole Wheat Bread 

Lettuce in Cream 

Dutch Apple Cake Whipped Cream 

Coffee Tea 



JUNE 

Consomme Julienne 

Fried Soft Shell Crabs 

Chicken Pie , Mashed Potatoes 

Green Peas 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Wafers Cheese 

Vanilla Ice Cream Apple Pie 

Tea C^ee Milk 



DEPARTMENT. 27 411 

Onion Soup 

Baked Salmon, Sauce Tartare 
Boiled Rice 

Cucumber Salad 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Coffee 



Puree of Peas 



Baked Red Snapper, Tomato Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Buttered Beets 

Cold Slaw with Mayonnaise 

.Widow's Peach Pudding 

Coflfee Tea 



Vegetable Soup 

Fried Chicken, Vienna Style 
Potatoes Sliced Tomatoes Green Peas 

Jelly Roll Fruit Salad 

■Cof5fee Iced Tea Lemonade 



il2 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Tomato Soup 

Rib Roast of Beef Browned Potatoes 
Asparagus on Toast Drawn Butter 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Rhubarb Sherbet Plain Cake 

Black Coffee 



Green Pea Soup 

Fish 

Broiled Tenderloin Steak Boiled Rice 

New Potatoes 

Egg and Lettuce Salad 

Orange Ice Cream Orange Cake 

Coffee Demi-Tasse 

English Walnuts 



Consomme 



Roast Leg of Lamb Riced Potatoes 

Beets and Tops with Butt,er Sauce 

Lady Washington Salad 

Tea Coffee Cheese Wafers 



DEPARTMENT 37 413 

JULY 

Potato Soup 

Sweet Bread Croquettes, Tomato Sauce 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce 
Spinach 

String Bean Salad 

Wafers Cantaloupe Cheese 

Milk Sherbet 

Coffee 



Cream of Cauliflower 

Boiled Pike, Bechamel Sauce 
Boiled Potatoes 

Rice Croquettes 
Lettuce and Tomato Salad 
Vanilla. Ice Cream 
Cocoa Tea Grape-juice 



Tomato Soup 



Boiled Beef, Horseradish Sauce 
Pickled Beets Fried Potatoes 

Cucumber Salad 

Cheese Crackers 

Iced Watermelon 
English Breakfast Tea 



414 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Hamburg Steak New Potatoes 

Asparagus 

Cream Cheese Browned Crackers 

Raspberry Charlotte 

Tea Coffee Milk 



Cream of Onion Soup 

Broiled Chops Mashed Potatoes 
Cold Spinach and Eggs French Dressing 

Sliced Cucumbers 

Bavarian Peach Cream 

Black Coffee 



Iced Orangeade 

Stewed Chicken Cream Sauce 
Cucumbers in Cream Potato Chips 

Cheese Salad on Lettuce 

Vanilla Ice Cream Royal Strawberries and Cream 

Small Coffee 



DEPARTMENT 27 415 

Tomato Bouillon Egg Dumplings 

Roast Leg of Lamb Baked New Potatoes 

New Beets 

Cucumber Salad French Dressing 

Strawberry Ice Cream Cherry Pie 

Chocolate 



AUGUST 

Consomme with Spinach 

Celery 

Roast Chicken, Giblet Gravy 
Browned Potatoes Summer Squash 

Stuffed Tomatoes, French Dressing 

Raspberry Sherbet 

Coffee Iced Tea Buttermilk 



White Bean Soup 

Broiled Mushrooms 

Baked Bluefish, Egg Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes Green Corn 

Lettuce and Cucumber Salad 

Grapes Cherries 

Coffee 



410 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Lamb Stew Dumplings 

Boiled New Potatoes Green Peas 

Fruit Salad Cheese Wafers 

' Caramel Custard AVatermelon 

Coffee Tea 



Tomato Soup 

Baked Chicken Mashed Potatoes 

Smothered Tomatoes • Parsley 

Lettuce and Radish Salad 

Wafers Cheese 

Water Ice 

Coffee 



Consomme with Spinach 

Breaded Veal Chops Potatoes Creamed 

Lima Beans Cream Dressing 

Tomato Jelly 
Wafers Cheese 

Steamed Blackberry Pudding Hard Sauce 

Tea Coffee 



DEPARTMENT 27 417 

Cream of Corn Soup Wafers 

Beef Pot Roast Riced Potatoes 

Peas and Carrots White Sauce 

Bean Salad, French Dressing 

Prune Puff Whipped Cream 

Coflfee Iced Tea 



SEPTEMBER 

Consomme with Vermicelli 

Celery 

Fricasssee of Chicken, Dumplings 
Cauliflower Mashed Potatoes 

Lobster Salad 

Osage Cantaloupe Cheese 

Blackberry Pie Chocolate Blanc Mange 
Coffee, Demi-Tasse 



Cream of Shrimps 

Boiled Whitefish, Tomato Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Turnips 

Corn Fritters 

Mixed Vegetable Salad 

Raspberry Sherbet 

Tea Coflfee 



418 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Ideal Bean Soup 

Broiled Steak French Fried Potatoes 

Combination Salad Green Peas 

Peach Cobbler Cantaloupe 

Coffee Tea 



Stewed Chicken Gravy 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Squash 

Hot Biscuits 

Oyster Salad 

Custard Pie Whipped Cream 

Tea Coffee Lemonade 



Pot Roast New Potatoes 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Corn 

Lettuce and Celery Salad 
Rice Pudding Wafers 

Black Coffee 



Roast Duck Olive Sauce 

Giblet Gravy Turnips 

Roast Sweet Potatoes Baked Tart Apples 





Potato Salad 




Apple Sauce 


Cheese 


Cream Pie 


Tea 


Iced Coffee 


Lemonade 



DEPARTMENT 37 419 

OCTOBER 

Raw Oysters 

Consomme in Cups 

Roast Pork, Apple Sauce 
Baked Sweet Potatoes Tomatoes 

Merry Widow's Salad 

Muskmelon Prunes with Whipped Cream 

Cocoa Coffee Tea 



Vegetable Soup 

Baked Whitefish, Drawn Butter Sauce 
Boiled Sweet Potatoes Squash 

Bean Salad 

Pumpkin Pie Apple Pie 

Coffee Tea Chocolate 



White Soup 



Boiled Corned Beef Boiled Cabbage 
Boiled Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 

Strawberry Ice Cream Lemon Pie Cheese 

;i'ea Coffee Cocoa 



420 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Veal Cutlets Mashed Potatoes 

Deviled Tomatoes Carrots 

Cucumber and Celery Salad 

Marshmallows Plain Cake 

Cocoa Coffee 



Lamb Stew Dumplings 

Lima Beans Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Lettuce and Green Pepper Salad 

Cantaloupes Grapes 

Coffee or Chocolate 



Broiled Steak Chili Sauce 

Egg Plant Boiled Potatoes 

Tomato Salad French Dressing 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 

Coffee Tea 



Cream of Celery Soup 

Hamburg Roast Gravy 

Stuffed Tomatoes Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Baked Apples Custard Pie 

Black Coffee 



DEPARTMENT 27 421 

NOVEMBER 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Roast Goose, Stewed Gooseberries 

Boiled Potatoes 

Baked Winter Squash Turnips 

Fruit Salad 

Pumpkin Pie Suet Pudding 

Cheese Coffee 



Pea Soup 

Broiled Mackerel, Maitre d'hotel Butter 
Mashed Potatoes Cauliflower 

Celery Salad 

Boiled Custard Cake 

Coffee 



Noodle Soup 

Fried Oysters 

Meat Balls Rice with Apples 

Apple Pie Cheese 

Coffee Tea 



422 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Tomato Soup 

Saddle of Mutton, Currant Jelly 
Mashed Potatoes Corn 

Imperial Salad 

Custard Pie Ice Cream 

G>ffee Cocoa 



Celery Soup 

Braised Round Steak Potatoes au Gratin 
Creamed Peas 

Bean Salad 

Baked Custard 

Coffee Tea 



Cream of Cauliflower 

Braised Mutton Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Beets 

Squash Pie Brie Cheese 

finglish Breakfast Tea 



DEPARTMENT 27 483 

DECEMBER 

Oysters 

Broiled Prairie Chicken, Currant Jelly- 
Creamed Potatoes Fried Parsnips 

Cabbage, Mayonnaise Dressing '^ 

English Plum Pudding 

Coffee Tea Milk 



Egg Soup 

Codfish Balls, Old Zealand Sauce 
Baked Potatoes Rice with Tomatoes 

Oyster Salad 

Blueberry Pie Vanilla Ice Cream 

Chocolate 



Soup a I'Aurore 

Macaroni with Ham au gratin 

Veal Cutlets Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Bean Salad 

Pineapple Ice Peach Pie Cheese 

Coffee 



424 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Tomato Soup 

Roast Spareribs, Apple Sauce 
Baked Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes 

Stuffed Tomatoes, Mayonnaise 

Charlotte Russe Bananas in Jelly 

Coffee Cocoa Tea 



Oyster Cocktail 

Roast Duck Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots 

Medley Salad Toasted Crackers 

Pumpkin Pie Cheese 

Coffee, Demi-Tasse 



Tomato Soup 



Beef Brisket Pot Roast Brown Gravy 

Escalloped Potatoes Parsnips 

Mixed Fruit Salad 

Baked Apple Dumplings 
Cocoa Whipped Cream 



Consomme Salted Wafers 

Baked Chicken Bread Dressing 

Gravy Mashed Potatoes 

Browned Parsnips 

Cabbage Salad 
Bavarian Peach Cream Lady Fingers 

Coffee 



DEPARTMENT 27 425 

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS. 

Breakfast — 1. 

Buttered Toast Hominy 

Beefsteak 
Potatoes a la Creme French Rolls 

Buckwheat Cakes 

Chocolate Coffee Tea 



Breakfast— 2. 



Broiled Spring Chicken 
Parker House Rolls Saratoga Potatoes 

Fried Oysters Scrambled Eggs 

Rye and Indian Loaf 

Tea Coffee Chocolate 



Dinner. 

Oyster Soup with Celery 

Roast Turkey 
Croquettes of Rice Irish and Sweet Potatoes 

Escalloped Tomatoes Vegetables Pickles 

Macaroni Jelly 

Lemon Pie Mince Pie 

Fruits ' Cheese Nuts 

English Breakfast Tea Coffee 



4»6 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Luncheon. 
Broiled Chicken 

Oyster Pie Cold Ham 

Pyramids of Wine Jelly Pound and Fruit Cake 

Blanc Mange Snow Jelly 

Macaroons Kisses Ice Cream 

Sherry Flip 

Tea Party. 
Tea Chocolate Coffee 

Muffins Fried or Escalloped Oysters 

Cold Sliced Turkey and Ham 
Hot Biscuits 

Sardines and Sliced Lemons 
Sliced Pressed Meats Thin Slices of Bread Rolled 

Assorted Cake 



Supper — 1, 



Chicken Salad Cold Roast Turkey 

Quail on Toast 

Fricasseed Oysters Ham Croquettes 

Charlotte Russe Vanilla Cream 

Cocoanut Cake Shelled Almonds 

Assorted Fruit 
Chocoiate Coffee 



DEPARTMENT 37 43^ 

Supper — 2. 

Cold Roast Partridges or Ducks 

Dressed Celery Raw Oysters 

Tongue Sandwiches 

Ice Cream Assorted Cakes 

Fruits Coffee Chocolate 

Supper — 3. 

Cold Roast Turkey 

Bread and Butter 

Dressed Lettuce 

Meat and Rice Croquettes 

Nesselrode Pudding Assorted Cake 

Coffee Tea 



QUANTITIES 
ADAPTED TO PICNICS OR RECEPTIONS. 

Allow 1 quart of oysters to every 4 persons ; for 100 persons, 
25 quarts ; for 50 persons, 14 quarts. Six chickens (or a 9 to 13- 
Ib. turkey, boiled and minced) and 18 heads of celery are enough 
for chicken salad for 60 guests. One and one-half gallons of ice 
cream to every 34 guests. One hundred and twenty sandwiches 
for 100 guests, about 1J4 lbs. of butter for the sandwiches, and 
5 to 6 quarts of currant jelly for each hundred. For a party of 
30, allow 3 chickens for salad; 50 small pickles; 1 gallon of ice 
cream and 4 dozen biscuits. The quantity of food required can 
be easily adapted to the number of persons to be served. Six 
portions of soup to a quart ; 8 portions of salad to a quart ; 6 por- 
tions of ice cream to a quart ; 34 portions of beverage to a gallon. 



428 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

WEDDING BREAKFAST 

Grape Fruit 

Cracked Wheat 

Breakfast Gems 

Poached Eggs 

Broiled Squab on Toast 
French Fried Potatoes Apple Sauce 

Bananas with Cream 

Orangeade Coffee Cocoa 



WEDDING DINNER 

Oysters or Clams 

Cream of Tomato Soup 
Olives Celery Radishes 

Lobster a' la Newburg on Toast 

Roast Chicken Stuffed, Giblet Sauce 

Browned Potatoes Cauliflower in Cream 

Brandied Peaches 

Bride's Salad 

Neapolitan Ice Cream Young Bride's Cake 

Sherry Cobbler Coffee Tea 



DEPARTMENT 27 439 

THANKSGIVING DINNER 

Oysters on the Half Shell 

Celery 

Asparagus Soup 

Olives Salted Almonds Pickles 

Roast Turkey, Giblet Sauce, Cranberry Jelly 
Mashed Potatoes Cauliflower Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Cranberry Sherbet 

Broiled Quail, French Peas Currant Jelly 
Lettuce Salad 

Roman Punch 

Mince Pie Pumpkin Pie 

Chocolate or Vanilla Ice Cream Cake Suet Pudding 

Fruit 

Roquefort Cheese Crackers 

Cider ' Cofifee, Demi-Tasse 



430 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

CHRISTMAS DINNER 

Blue Points 

Salted Almonds Celery Sweet Chowchow 

Terrapin Soup 

Boiled Black Bass Princess Potatoes 

Merry Widow Salad 

Roast Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts, Cranberry Sauce 
Sweet Potatoes Green Peas 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms 

Prairie Chicken, Watercresses 

English Plum Pudding, Brandy Sauce Lemon Pie 

Nesselrode Pudding Fruit Cake 

Fruits Candy 

Brie or Roquefort Cheese 
Cranberry Sherbet Coffee, Demi-tasse 



EASTER DINNER 
Easter Eggs a la Russe 

Oyster Cocktail 

Egg Soup 
Celery Olives Cracked Almonds 

Boiled Halibut, Egg Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Salmi of Pigeons Vinegarette Asparagus 

Fruit Punch 
Roast Chicken Waldorf Salad 

Bird's Nest Ite Cream Cheese 

Coffee 



DEPARTMENT 37 431 

VALENTINE'S DAY DINNER 
Caviar on Toast 

Blue Points 
Celery Radishes Pickled Green Tomatoes Olives 

Boiled Salmon, White Sauce New Potatoes 

Roast Beef, Pan Gravy 
Fried Sweet Potatoes Creamed Parsnips 

Portuguese Omelet 

Claret Cup 

Breast of Red-Head Duck Lettuce Salad 

Apple Dumpling, Lemon Sauce Cherry Pie 

Bavarian Cream Assorted Cake 

Mixed Fruits 

Edam Cheese Cracker's 

Coffee Tea 



WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY 

Oysters 

Cream of Celery Hatchet Bread Sticks 

Boiled Halibut, Sauce Hollandaise Boiled Potatoes 

Braised Duck, Mushroom Sauce 
Pickles Cauliflower, Cream Sauce 

Roast Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce 
Parisienne Potatoes 

Sweetbread Cutlets with Green Peas 

Fruit Punch with Maraschino Cherries 

Roast Quail Lettuce Salad 

Nesselrode Pudding Cakes Cheese 

Coffee Fruit Punch Chocolate 



433 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Dinner 

in honor of 

PRESIDENT THEODORE ROOSEVELT 

April 2, 1903 
The Auditorium, Chicago. 



Oysters 

Schloss Johannisberg 

Clear Green Turtle Soup 

Brook Trout a la Meuniere 
Cucumber Salad 



Ruinart Brut 



Calf Sweetbreads, Forrastiere 

Asparagus Points 

Terrapin a la Maryland 

Canvasback Duck Roasted 

La Tache Romance 
Lettuce and Grapefruit Salad 

Aspic of Goose Livers 

Fruit Salad St. Jacques 

Biscuits 

Camembert Roquefort 

Black Coflfee 

Old Port ApolHnaris Liqueurs 

Cigars 



DEPARTMENT 27 433 

Dinner 

in honor of 

PRINCE HENRY OF PRUSSIA 

March 3, 1902 
The Auditorium, Chicago 

Relishes 
Oysters on the Half Shell 

Consomme Imperial 

Goose Liver a la Perigord 

Fillets of Pompano, Modern 
Cucumbers 

Breast of Capon, Chevaliere 
Asparagus Points 

Terrapin, Maryland Style 

Apricot Sherbet 

Canvasback Duck Roasted 
Salad of Grapefruit and Chicory 

Fancy Ices 
Cake Assorted Cakes 

Camembert Port de Salut 

Nuts and Raisins Strawberries 

Coffee 

SchLoss Johannisberger Cabinet, 1893 

Moet & Chandon Brut Imperial, 1889 White Seal 

Chambertin, 1878 Apollinaris 



434 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

ORDER OF COURSES— Table d'hote Dinner, 

Table d'hote (pron. ta'bl dot). French, and means host's 
or guest's table. The following order indicates the various 
courses as they should appear in a table d'hote dinner. The rule 
should be, never serve more than one style of the same meat at 
any one meal. 

The First Course: Usually consists of oysters on the half- 
shell, although canapes (toast with caviare) or muskmelon may 
be substituted. 

The Second Course : A light dinner should be preceded by a 
heavy soup, but if the dinner is made up of many courses (eight 
or ten) a lighter soup is preferable. The hors-d'oeuvres (relish- 
es) which may consist of radishes, olives, pickles or celery, are 
generally eaten with the soup, but can be served with fish in- 
stead. 

The Third Course: Should be fish, although any light 
piquante (highly seasoned) meat may be substituted. Patties, 
fricassee and salads are suitable. Julienne, shoe-string or other 
small potatoes are always served with fish, and a cucumber salad 
is gn appropriate accompaniment for any fish course. Fish should 
have a heavy sauce. 

The Fourth Course: This is the heaviest course of the meal. 
It usually consists of a roast with potatoes and one or two vege- 
tables. Vegetables should be served in saucers. 

The Fifth Course: The entrees should not be served warm 
if the preceding course was cold and vice versa. 

The Sixth Course: A frozen punch served in glasses or a 
cheese omelet or souffle may constitute this course. 

The Seventh Course: A salad, or poultry, game or venison. 
Cheese or cheese straws may be served with it if the salad is sub- 
stantial. 

The Eighth Course : This consists of a dessert which may be 
a hot pudding, a cold jelly pudding, ice cream or one or two kinds 
o/ pie. Ice cream or w'ater ices, if served with other desserts 
should come last. 

The Ninth Course: Fruits, candy and sweetmeats or cheese 
and toasted crackers may now be served, followed by a demi-tasse 
of coffee. When gentlemen are present cigars and cigarettes 
may be served with the coffee. 



WJ^ASSt'^^l^S 



^ ENOUGH IS AS GOOD AS A FEAST „ 

EAT AT PLEASURE DRINK BY MEASURE 



"The chief pleasure in eating does not consist in costly seasoning or exquisite 

flavor." — Horace. 
"It is not the quantity of the meat, but the cheerfulness of the guests, which 

makes the feast." — Clarendon. 
"Eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart." — Ed. 
"Great men should drink with harness on their throats." — Shakespeare. 
"He who feasts every day, feasts no day." — Simmons. 

"A man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, and the next drink takes 

the man." — Japanese. 

"Eaten bread is soon forgotten."— £«^/tV*. 

"Drinking water neither makes a man sick, nor in debt, nor his wife a widow." 

— Neal. 
"Simple diet is best, for many dishes bring many diseases." — Pliny. 
"Every animal but man keeps to one dish." — Addison. 

"Go to your banquet, but use delight, so as to rise with an appetite." — Herri ck. 
"Reason should direct, and appetite obey." — Cicero. 

"A man hath no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to 

be merry." — -Eel. 
"Eat such things as are set before you." — Luie, x. 8. 

"For the sake of health, medicines are taken by weight and measure; so 

ought food to be." — Skelton. 
"The smaller the drink the clearer the head."— ^^»«. 
"Nature delights in the most plain and 'simple diet." — Addison. 
"A well-governed appetite is a great part of liberty." — Seneca. 
"I am a great eater of beef and I believe that does harm to my ■wit."— S/iakespeare. 
"Some men are born to feast, and not to Rgiii."— Saillie. 
"Now good digestion wait' on appetite, and health on both." — Shakespeare. 
"A good dinner sharpens wit while it softens the heart." — Dordn. 
"The turn-pike road to a man's heart lies through his mouth."— Pindar. 
"Before dinner men meet with great inequality of understanding." — Johnson. 

POR MENUS SEE PAGE 397 
435 




Department 28. 

THE word "market" is derived from the Latin, and is defined as "a place 
or store for the sale of provisions or other merchandise." It is just as 
important for the housekeeper to be able to select good food at right 
prices as it is for the merchant to buy a stock of goods judiciously. Don't 
patronize the store or market that is not kept clean and which does not keep 
all meats, vegetables and other articles of food fully up to the requirements 
of the health laws, which prohibit the sale of tainted or unclean food. 

HINTS FOR MARKETING 

As a rule allow ^ pound of meat for each person. 

The fat should be firm, but if hard and skinny it indicates that 
the animal was old and tough ; if thin, from a scrawny animal. 

The best veal is usually of a pale color, although the veal of 
a deep color is more juicy. When examining veal see that the 
kidney is. enclosed in fat, which should be firm and white. 

The odor, if any, ought to be natural and not disagreeable. 

Beef or mutton should be of a deep rose color, and the fat a 
rich cream. The choicest cuts for roasting are the sixth, seventh 
and eighth ribs, the sirloin and porterhouse cuts. Sirloin and 
short cut porterhouse steaks are best, although many prefer the 
pinbone steak. Round steak is almost invariably tough. Little 
veins of fat should run through the meat which gives it a marble- 
ized appearance. Beef intended for steak or roast, when possible, 
should be kept for a week or ten days well protected from the air. 

436 



DEPARTMENT 28 437 

Good pork has a smooth, thin rind which is firm to the touch 
and of a light color. 

Bacon should be w^hite and firm, not yellowish or too fat. A 
pink or rosy streak is considered a good sign. A steel skewer 
(pin for holding meat in shape) driven into bacon or ham should 
come out clean. If particles of meat cling to it or if any un- 
pleasant smell is detected, it should not be used. 

When selecting poultry see that the feet are soft and moist, 
the eyes clear, the flesh plump and heajthy-looking, A bluish or 
greenish look around the veins indicates decay. 

If there is any suspicion that a fowl has been in cold storage, 
pour hot water into the inside. If any disagreeable odor is de- 
lected, the fowl is not fit for the table. 

When buying slaughtered poultry see that the edges of the 
wound turn outward; the skin should be white, the flesh firm, 
the bill of a bright natural color and the wings should bend easily 
at the joints. If the skin has a bluish tint or a slimy appearance, 
do not accept it under any consideration. One of the greatest 
dangers to health is in the poisonous germs that lurk in cold 
storage poultry or other meat that has been standing too long. 

The signs of yOuth in chicken are a tender, white skin, a flex- 
ible end of the breast-bone, a light colored bill, soft feet, bright 
full eyes, a red comb and fine feathers. Old chickens have long 
hairs instead of fine feathers. Young turkeys have dark legs. 
All other fowls have a dark horny skin on the legs when old. 
The windpipe of young turkeys and geese yields easily to pres- 
sure and the head of a pin may be pressed into the breast skin 
of a young goose, turkey, chicken, duck or other fowl. 

Young chickens have smooth legs and soft and pliable breast- 
bones and smooth combs. Spring broilers should weigh 1 to 
lYz pounds and be served either whole or split along the back bone 
into halves. If there is any suspicion that the chicken is not 
young press the finger under the breast-bone or wing. If tender, 
the pressure will break the skin. 

Young geese have yellow feet and bills, (when old, they are 
reddish). A goose, intended for the table, should not be older 
than six months or one year, or it is liable to be tough. 



438 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Hares and rabbits are only tender when young. See that the 
ears are soft and thin and the claws sharp and smooth. 

The eyes of fish should be bright, the flesh firm, the gills of a 
bright red, and the smell natural but not of a disagreeable odor. 

To candle eggs, take a tube of pasteboard or tin, a little wider 
than an egg at one end and a little narrower at the other. Slip 
in the egg, then go into a dark room, look into the narrower end 
of the tube towards a burning candle or gas flame, provided for 
the purpose. If the egg looks clear, it is fresh. Or dissolve 2 
tablespoonfuls of salt in % pint of water ; a fresh egg will sink, 
a stale one will float. Another simple test : Touch the tongue to 
both ends of the egg. If sound and fresh, the small end will 
be cold and the large end warm. Eggs ali-eady -candled can be 
bought at a slight advance. 

Vegetables and fruit must be perfectly ripe, fresh and crisp. 
When soft and wilted, they are injurious to health. 

All potatoes and vegetables bought by the bushel should be 
weighed as provided by law — for instance, a bushel of potatoes 
must weigh sixty pounds, net without the basket. 

Always taste everything that can possibly be tasted before 
buying; do not depend upon the eye; it is deceptive. 

Fowl and fish should be "pulled" by the storekeeper, and 
fish should be sold at net weight after pulling. 

To be a good caterer, it is not always advisable to buy where 
food stuffs are sold the cheapest because of the fact that meats, 
vegetables and other products may have been kept in unwhole- 
some places before being offered for sale. The good housewife 
will always aim to buy direct from a good market-place, from 
farmers' wagons or from first class stores. 

It is poor economy to purchase anything simply because it is 
cheap ; this is especially true of food articles. Beware of wilted 
vegetables, decayed fruit, tainted meat, cold storage or canned 
goods, which may be offered at low prices. To avoid danger 
to health or life, take every precaution to select only the best. 

There are of course, many conscientious dealers but there are 
also others who cannot be depended upon. The constant effort 
of speculators is to put meats and provisions into cold storage 
as soon as received. All cold storage food loses its flavor. 




Department 29. 

THE housekeeper or cook cannot be too thoroughly posted regarding the 
Whys and Hows, or the various methods used in Domestic Science, 
The time required for boiling certain meats, frying, roasting, baking^ 
clarifying fat, larding, the dressing of poultry, preparation of eggs and vege- 
tables must be carefully watched in order to obtain the best results. 

CLEANING AND DRESSING POULTRY. 

The best time for chicken is from May to November; capons 
in the winter; turkeys and geese from October to January ; young 
pigeons in June and July; ducks from August to November. 

Chickens and turkeys may be killed by cutting the throats or 
like ducks and pigeons by chopping off the head ; geese by thrust- 
ing in a knife just back of the skull. 

Young chickens and pigeons should be hung over night in 
a cool draughty place ; old hens, capons, ducks and turkeys, two 
days; geese three to four days. 

If a fowl is not drawn When bought, draw it at once, and if 
the slightest offensive odor is detected, do not use it. 

Remove all fine feathers and singe over fire of dry straw or 
paper, or better, over wood alcohol, burning in an old saucer. 
Alcohol flame will not smoke the skin or discolor it. When 
singed, wipe the skin perfectly clean with wet towel. 



439 



440 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

To draw a fowl, cut opening at the rump ; thrust a forefinger 
in and run it carefully around the entrails. Then thrust the fin- 
ger in at the neck opening and repeat. Draw entrails out at the 
rump end and cut loose. If the gall or any other part has been 
broken in the operation, -thoroughly wash the inside at once. 
Otherwise, only wipe with a wet cloth. Then cut the oil-sack 
off the rump, the gall off the liver, (be careful not to break it) 
and remove the outer skin off the gizzard, (stomach). The 
gizzard, liver and heart are the giblets. Turn back the skin of 
the neck, cut the neck away close to the breast and fold the skin 
over the opening. The neck is fine if boiled or stewed, but 
not roasted. 

After the fowl has been singed, drawn and wiped clean, wrap 
in a cloth, unless to be dressed at once. The dressing should 
proceed as follows: Put the stuffing in the neck and body and 
sew up both openings. Press the wings close against the body 
and fold the pinions under, so as to cross the back, and hold down 
the skin of the neck. Sew fast in this position, running the 
thread through the wings and back, and also through the thighs 
or the legs near the middle joint; the thighs being pressed to- 
ward the neck as far as possible. Then press the ends of the 
drumsticks toward the rump, covering the opening made for 
drawing the fowl, and sew together through the rump, leaving 
the fowl pressed as compact as possible. 

The old method of roasting a turkey or other meats was on a 
spit run through the middle lengthwise, and before an open, even 
fire. The drippings were caught in a pan and used for basting. 
"Baking" has almost entirely superseded "roasting," but never- 
theless the old way is still superior to all others, because being 
constantly watched and turned on the spit, the meat is cooked 
more uniformly and retains all the juices. 

Stew the giblets in sauce pan; chop fine; add the water in 
which they were stewed and the chopped giblets to the gravy ; 
thicken with flour; boil up and serve in a gravy dish. Should be 
served with celery and cranberry sauce or some good jelly. (See 
page 100, and sinews opposite page 449.) 



DEPARTMENT 29 441 

GENERAL HINTS ON BOILING. 

In boiling meat, it is important to remember that it should 
be put in fast boiling water and be allowed to boil sharply for 
a few minutes, if the strength and flavor is to be retained. On 
the other hand, if the juice of the 'meat is to be extracted for 
soups, put in cold water, let boil up slowly and then simmer. 

Salt meats, pickled and smoked meats, are put on the fire 
in cold water ; smoked ham and tongue should be soaked in cold 
water for at least twelve hours before cooking. 

Meat should be boiled from twenty to twenty-five minutes 
for every pound in the piece and fifteen minutes more. 

Fowls take from forty to ninety minutes, according to size 
and age; a leg of mutton of ten pounds takes three hours of 
gentle boiling; a large ham requires from five to six hours. 

In boiling, the water should at all times be kept so as to cover 
the meat or vegetables to be cooked. Replenish with boiling 
water. 

FRYING. 

A hot fire is necessary for frying; use plenty of clear, good 
fat, perfectly hot, and serve the fried food immediately. Fried 
dishes should never be covered up, as this makes them either soft 
or else tough. Do not wash the frying-pan, but wipe clean with 
paper or a cloth. Everything fried should be drained of all super- 
fluous grease before being dished up. Chops, steaks, fish or fried 
potatoes floating in grease are disgusting to the eye and an 
abomination to digestion. 

Do not put more than two fishballs or doughnuts in the pan 
at one time. The temperature of the fat would be too much re- 
duced. Lard can be heated to a higher temperature than suet 
or butter without burning, and is therefore preferable in all cases 
where no fat should be absorbed by the food. 

CLARIFYING FAT. 

Cut the fat into pieces the size of a filbert, remove all skin, 
put in iron pot, add 1 gill (^/4 pint) of water for every pound of 
fat; put over hot fire, stirring occasionally to avoid burning. 



443 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

When no more froth arises and the liquid is clear, remove the 
pot to a cool part of the stove, let stand awhile and drain through 
a sieve. 

THICKENING. 

Soups and sauces are thickened in various ways, but always 
remember that the material used should be mixed with a small 
quantity of the soup or sauce in a separate dish, and then poured 
in while stirring briskly. Flour of wheat, corn, rice or any other 
flour may be used. 

The yolk of eggs may be utilized for this purpose, mixed with 
a small quantity of cream and well beaten before a little of the 
soup is stirred in. When well mixed, pour into the hot boiling 
soup, stirring briskly. But after the egg is added, do not let the 
soup boil again, or the egg will curdle. 

Flour fried in butter (roux) is also used. Melt five ounces 
of butter near, not over, the fire, and sift into it four ounces of 
flour ; cook slowly for ten minutes, not allowing if to turn yellow. 
Cool before using. Used for white sauces. • For other sauces, 
allow it to turn yellow or brown as desired. 

VEGETABLES. 

A careful cook will not allow the vegetables to get scorched, 
but if it should happen, remove from fire immediately, 'pour the 
vegetables into a dish, leaving every bit of the scorched part in 
the pot and continue cooking in a clean vessel. 

To preserve the color of green vegetables, put into boiling, 
salted water, a little at a time; the water must not stop boiling 
except for a moment. 

Potatoes, carrots and other roots must not be rinsed or 
watered after being cut to pieces. 

When using canned vegetables, make sure that the smell and 
taste is perfectly sweet on opening; remove from the can imme- 
diately and let cold water from the faucet run over them. 

\/^ 
EGGS. 

Where a recipe calls for several eggs and there is no certainty 



DEPARTMENT 39 



443 



that the eggs are beyond suspicion, break each egg separately 
into a cup or dish, so as to prevent a bad one from spoiling the 
others. 

I.ARDING. 

All dry meats, like venison, leg of veal, beef tenderloin, hare, 
grouse or partridge, also some fish, as pike or pickerel are much 
improved by larding, especially if to be baked or roasted. Lard- 
ing means drawing strips of fat salt pork through the surface of 



WA'S^ir'Jvqt^ 



the meat. One of the cuts shows the larding needle, empty and 
filled with pork, the other cut shows a beef tenderloin artistically 
larded. 




If the needle cannot be procured, push a sharp skewer (a 
wood or metal pin for holding meat in shape) through the 
meat, pinching the meat between thumb and forefinger and in- 
sert the pork in the hole thus made. The strips of pork should 
be quite thin and short for a partridge, a little larger for- a pike 
and still larger for a saddle of venison. 



SBASONINGi 



JPLAVORINGl 



Department 30. 

ONE of the great differences between savages and civUized beings, lies in 
the matter of food and all that is connected with it ; the food itself, the 
manner of eating it, and the way of preparing it, and above all, the skill 
displayed in serving. It may be truly said that a nation's cookery and 
manners indicate its degree of civilization as well as its character. 

"To season" is "to increase the relish or savor of" by adding some- 
thing pungent or pleasant^ especially salt or spice. "Flavoring" means, 
"imparting flavor or adding a flavoring substance to," as vanilla flavors the 
cake. The cook who thoroughly understands the art of seasoning and flavor- 
ing, will aim to send each dish to the table so nearly, perfect that no further 
seasoning will be required. Care, however, should be taken not to spoil the 
food by too much pepper, salt or other ingredients. 

SALT IS A NECESSITY. It removes the natural insipidity 
from all edibles, acts as an appetizer, and promotes digestion by 
producing a freer supply of the gastric and other juices. It raises 
the boiling point of water, thus applying greater Heat to the food 
boiled in it. It acts also as a great preservative. 

Pepper is the dried seeds or berries of an East-Indian plant. 
Black pepper is made by grinding the berries whole; for white 
pepper the berries are freed from the dark husks and then ground 
fine. The strength of black pepper is greater than white. Red 
pepper comes from Cayenne and is of a powerful flavor and very 
pungent. Paprika (Hungarian pepper) has a high flavor, but is 
not pungent, and is, therefore, palatable. 

Mustard has similar qualities to pepper, but on account of its 
pronounced flavor is necessarily limited to a few dishes. 

Vinegar is best made of wine, but the average commercial 
vinegar is made of malt. Cider vinegar is considered good. 



444 



DEPARTMENT 30 445 

Vinegar acts as an antiseptic; makes meat tender, and if taken 
in small quantities aids digestion but is injurious in large quan- 
ties. 

Sugar is really a food rather than a condiment, but as it stim- 
ulates the digestive organs, renders many watery vegetables, 
such as cucumbers, peas and spinach more digestible, and gives 
a rich flavor to many sauces and dishes, it should be used but 
sparingly ; just enough to season, but nOt enough to sweeten. 

Vanilla is the fruit of a kind of orchid. The best comes from 
Mexico. Vanilla essence quickly looses its delicious fragrance 
and therefore it is better to use the Vanilla pods. 

Ginger is considered wholesome, acting as a tonic. White 
ginger is better than black. 

Lemons are exceedingly useful and wholesome. The rind 
contains a highly aromatic essential oil, which may be utilized by 
grating the rind, or by cutting the yellow peel off with a sharp, 
thin knife without cutting into the white. If sugar is to be used 
with lemon-oil, rub the lemon with rough lumps of sugar or rub 
the lemon on a large chunk of loaf sugar. 

Parsley has great power as a flavoring. If used judiciously, 
it will give a fine finishing touch to sauces and stews, while too 
much of it will kill more delicate aromas. When chopped fine, 
fold tight into a cloth, forming a little ball, let cold water run over 
the ball, squeeze out the water and put on a plate. Powdered 
parsley is prepared by steeping a few sprigs in boiling water for 
several seconds, drain, dry quickly in a hot oven and rub through a 
sieve. Parsley-root is especially desirable for soups. 

Mint is supposed to correct flatulency, but it should be used 
sparingly as its strong flavor is not palatable to everybody's taste. 
Considered the best flavoring for bean soup or spring lamb. 

Bay leaves give a nutty flavor, but if left in the food too long, 
they are apt to make it bitter and should therefore be taken out 
at once after cooking. 

Thyme and marjoram give a delicious flavor but as a rule a 
little of either will satisfy the taste. If too much, try one-half 
of the accustomed quantity the next time. 

Cardamom is the seed of an East Indian plant of the ginger 



446 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

family. The three-celled fruit capsule contains numerous small, 
highly aromatic seeds, much valued for flavoring cake. 

Nutmeg gives a delightful flavor, but just a trace of it is suf- 
ficient. 

Mace is the outer shell of the nutmeg and resembles it in 
flavor. May be used whole or powdered. 

Cloves are the un.opened buds of a plant; a native of the 
Molucca Islands. Their 'flavor is so agreeable that it is almost 
indispensable in stews. If never tried, stick a few cloves in an 
onion and stew it with the meat, removing cloves before serving. 

Allspice, also called Jamaica pepper or Pimento, combines the 
flavors of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Cinnamon is the bark of an East Indian species of laurel 
tree. Its fragrancy and pleasant pungency make it a favorite 
flavoring, especially in combination with sugar, as in stewed 
prunes, on plain cake and on boiled milk-rice. 

Curry powder is an East Indian mixture of condiments and 
spices, used daily, even by the poor, in its native country. 

Turmeric is the powdered root or tuber of an East Indian 
plant of the ginger family. It is one of the principal ingredients 
of curry powder. 

Horseradish stimulates the appetite and aids digestion. Its 
essential oil is extremely volatile ; for this reason the root cannot 
be kept long except by being buried in sand ; grated horseradish 
also spoils rapidly, and therefore, should not be kept any length 
of time on the table. Horseradish is considered unwholesome 
if taken on an empty stomach. 

Good fresh butter only should be used in cooking as well as 
for the table. Where economy is studied, it is better to use beef- 
drippings or good salt pork than inferior or rancid butter. 

A bunch of herbs, the "bouquet garni" of French recipes, con- 
sists of a few sprigs of parsley, one sprig of thyme, one of mar- 
joram, one stalk of celery, a small piece of cinnamon, a small 
blade of mace, and a pepper-pod, tied together with a string. 




Department 31. 

GOOD carving is an art that can only be acquired by study and practice. 
If the correct instructions are properly followed it may prove a source of 
pleasure and profit ; bad carving is not only wasteful but embarrassing. 
It is important that the carving-knife be kept sharp and used with a 
sawing motion. At formal dinners the carver should stand up. If ladies only 
are to be served, the carving should be done in the kitchen. The dish with 
the fowl or roast to be carved should be free from gravy or garnishings. 

CARVING. 
Cut ham and beef thin ; pork, lamb, veal and mutton a little 
thicker. A sirloin of beef, if extra thick, should be cut into thin 
slices, using the point of the knife to loosen the slices from the 




Leg of Mutton. 

bone. First carve the upper portion, then the under-cut. Slice 
a roast of beef towards the ribs. 

A neck of veal or mutton should have the back-bone joints cut 
through before cooking, so that a rib may be taken w!ith every 



447 



448 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

second or third slice. Otherwise it is easier to cut the slices 
diagonally. 

A leg or loin of potk should have the skin scored, (cut 
through) before cooking as the crackling (crisp skin) is too crisp 
or tough to carve at the table. If scored too far apart, the carver 
can lift the crackling aside to cut thinner slices. Always cut 
across the grain (at right angle to the bone). 

If carving a leg of mutton, take hold of the bone end with the 
left hand and cut away the portion marked "A" as shown in the 
cut, with a firm stroke of the knife. 

Then cut thin slices as indicated by figures 1, 3, 3, down to the 
bone and loosen each slice by putting the knife flat on the bared 
bone and cutting through. An experienced hand will make 
the loosening flat cut (from B to C), last, after slicing. As the 
cut shows, the slicing should gradually change direction slightly, 
so as to cut always across the grain. After the upper portion is 
gone, carve the undercut in a similar way, as indicated in the 
illustration. 

A chicken is best carved by first cutting off the legs and 
wings, then the breast, and cutting each side of the breast in two 




Roast Chicken. 

pieces across. The leg is easily cut in this way: sticking the 
carving fork through it from above, lay the flat knife firmly 
against the body, pull the handle of the fork down to the table, 
lift the prongs up slightly, and then as the joint gives way, cut 
and loosen with point of the knife exactly at the joint. The 
wing is treated in a similar way. The leg is generally cut into 




CopyriBht, 1908, by Wm. H. Lee. 




TURKEY sinews are exceeding-ly tougfh, but if removed 
from the drumsticks before cooking, the meat will be as 
good as that of the second joint, considered by some the 
best part of fowl. Usually prepared for special occasions. 

Work the turkey leg at the joint, pressing the thumb 
into the flesh, and at the same time give a rotary move-, 
ment to the joint. This should be done for two or three 
minutes or until the joint loosens and the flesh becomes 
soft. Then with a sharp knife or pair of scissors make an 
incision about an inch long- just inside the leg from the 
joint toward the body. Use a strong tool, something like 
a heavy skewer (iron or wooden pin), with which the sitiews 
(muscles) can be picked up one at a time and drawn out. 
Each leg contains eleven sinews. When all the sinews have 
been taken out, cut the leg at the joint and with a needle 
and thread draw the edges of the skin closely together. 

The fowl should not be put in water, nor at any time 
be permitted to soak, because this would destroy the flavor. 

This unique method of treating the turkey is not gen- 
erally known, but if given a trial will be found satisfactory. 



DEPARTMENT 31 



449 



two pieces, at the joint. If a large fowl, the thigh may be cut in 
two pieces along the bone. 

A duck is carved the same as chicken or similar fowls. 




Roast Turkey. 
The leg and wing of a turkey are cut off on one side the same 




Roast Goose. 

as other fowls, then the breast is sliced off as shown in the cut. 
Then the other side is carved. If the turkey is large, the legs 
may be cut up in nice slices after taking them off, which with a 
small one is hardly practicable. 

A goose, of course, is carved similarly to the turkey. 




THE fireless cooking-stove, or self-cooking stove, as it is styled in Germany, 
is supposed to have originated among the Jews of Russia, whose religion 
did not permit them to build fires or cook on the Sabbath day. Therefore, 
the food had to be slightly cooked on Friday afternoon and set into the fireless 
stove, which retained the heat much longer than a brick oven, and thus the meals 
were kept hot so as to be ready to serve when required. A great variety of foods 
may be prepared by the fireless method, and anything that is to be boiled or 
steamed can be cooked to a much greater degree of perfection by means of the 
fireless-cooking stove. Food may be left in the stove an indefinite time without 
having the taste impaired — all the sweet juices and aroma that make foods taste 
good are retained, and not boiled away in steam. The following foods may be 
cooked in the fireless stove: Cereals — Rolled oats, oatmeal, cordmeal mush, 
hominy, rice. Breads - — Boston brown bread, steamed Graham bread. Soups of 
all kinds. Meaits — Boiled ham, beef stew, boiled'tongue, veal croquettes, braized 
mutton chops. Poultry — Boiled chicken, creamed chicken, chicken pie. Fish — 
Boiled fish, codfish balls. Vegetables of all kinds. Puddings of various sorts. 



The fact that heat a little below the boiling point of water is 
sufficient to cook vegetables and meat, together with the further 
fact that many substances do not conduct heat, led to this inven- 
tion. It was first publicly shown at the Paris exposition of 1867. 
It consists of a box nearly filled with hay, wool, paper or other 
non-conductors, in which one or more hollows are provided for 
cooking pots. The food is boiled for a certain time, then put in 
the fireless cooker, well covered up, and left alone until wanted. 
The box must be so large that the kettles are surrounded on all 
sides and below by a sufficient thickness of tightly-packed, non- 
460 



FIRELESS COOK STOVE 451 

conducting material, the hollows must be of the exact size and 
shape of the pots, a cushion filled with hay completely fills the 
space above the pots, and the lid presses the cushion down on the 
pots. The hollows and surface around them may be lined with 
woolen cloth for neatness and convenience. 

Besides the saving in fuel, the fireless cooker has other great 
advantages. It does away with the possibilty of scorching, pre- 
vents the nutritive salts from escaping with the steam, allows the 
housekeeper to leave the kitchen for hours, and the food may be 
cooked over night, ready to serve the first thing in the morning. 

For soups, stews, vegetables, gruels, cereals and stewed fruit 
the fireless cooker is invaluable. The following table gives in the 
first column the average time of boiling required before trans- 
ferring the-pot to the fireless cooker, the second column indicates 
the time required in the fireless cooker. 

Minutes Hours 

Soups with or without vegetables or cereals 35 4 

Barley, bean or pea soups 25 4 

Stewed or boiled meat , 35 4% 

Small pieces of meat 35 31^ 

Dried peas, beans, lentils, etc 30 41^ 

Young vegetables, as carrots, cauliflower 25 3% 

String beans, cabbage, turnips 35 414 

Potatoes, rice, chestnuts, macaroni 13 1% 

Pickled or smoked meats, tongue 40 7 

Fresh fruit • 10 1% 

Dried fruit 15 4 

Oatmeal and other gruels 10 1^/4 

Remember that the contents of the pot must be put in the ap- 
paratus boiling and tightly covered, and the box must not be 
opened again until the food is wanted. There must be no super- 
fluous liquid in the kettle, as it cannot evaporate. The necessary 
fat and salt must be put in beforehand, except in the case of peas, 
beans and other leguminous vegetables. Just before servmg 
take the pot out of the fireless cooker, put on the fire to heat up, 
if necessary, add the thickening and season to taste. 

The apparatus also keeps ice cream and other cold provisions, 
or beverages at the desired temperature a long time. 



FK/Bi^6H TERMS 

USBBINGOOKEBY 
WITH m^Mm IQmMjMTS, 

N. B. — The object of this vocabulary is to gfive the correct pronuncia- 
tion and the meanings of the more important French words and phrases used 
in the best hotels, restaurants and at banquets. The /7^ in respellings of French 
words indicate the sound of French nasal n. See note following vocabulary. 





abatis — consominS 



Giblets. 
amtean (an-yo). Jjamb. 
algrre (a'gr). Sour. 
all (i-y). Garlic. 



abatis (^ba-te). 

■ TO). 



[the fire. 

k la brocbe (a-la-brosh'). Roasted before 

Allemande (al-mand'). German. 

alose (a-loz). Shad. 

aloyan (al-wi-yo). Sirloin ot beef. 

ananas (a-na-oa'). Pineapple. 

ancbols (itng-shwil'). Anctacvy. 

Anglatse ^ang-glas'). English. 

angraille (^g-ghe-y). Eel. 

artictaant (ar-tl-sho). Artichoke. 

asperires (as-p^rzh). Asparagus, 

aspic (as-pik). Meat jelly. 

an (o). To or -vflth the. 

anbergine (o-bar-zhin'). Egg-plant. 

an fonr (5 for). Baked in the oven. 

an eratln(ogra-tang'). Any disb prepared 
with crumbs, and sauce, especially with 
grated cheese strewn over the top. 

an Jns (o zh<>). Meat baked in its own 
gravy. 



B€arnalse (ba-Sr-naz). The name ol a 
rich herb sauce. 

BSobamel (ba-sha-mel). The name of the 
chef of Louis XIV. applied to a special 
white sauce. 

Benedictine (ben-e-dlk-tln'). A liquor ori- 
ginally made by the Benedictine monks. 

betteraves (bet-ra-v). Beets. 

benrre (bSr). Butter.— benrre fondn 
(ber fong-dd). Melted butter. — benrre 
noir (bSr nwar). Browned butter. 

benrr£e (b1ir-ra'). Slice ot bread and butter. 

bineck (bit-tek). Beefsteak.— nn bifteck 
blen cnit (ung bif-tek be-ang kwe). A 
beefsteak well done.— blfteclt salgnant 
(bIf-tek sa-nyang). Beefsteak underdone. 

bisque (bisk). Soup made from any shell- 
fish. 

blanc (blang). White.— blanc manger 
(blang milng-zha). A gelatinous prepara- 
tion used for desserts. 



blanch. Whiten, as almonds, by plung- 
ing in boiling water for a tew miautes, 
to remove the sklna 

bcenf(buf). Beef. 

bonllll (bo-ye). Beet,! boiled. 

bonlllon (bo^yong). Broth made of beef. 

brals€ (bra-za). Boasted, as meat, in the 
oven, with vegetables and gravy in a 
covered pan. 

brocket (bro-sha). Pike. 



cabllland (ka-bi-yo'). Cod-fish. 

caliS (ka'fa). Coffee.— cafS nolr ( ka'fa 
nw&r). Black coffee.- cafS it la crSme 
(ka/fa a-la-kram). Coffee with cream.— 
cafiS elacS (ka'fa gl&-sa'). Iced coffee. 

eaillerki-y). Quail. [with anything. 

canape (ka-n^pa'). Bread or toast spread 

canard (ka-nftr'). Duck. 

canneberges (kan-bftr-zh). Cranberries. 

carafe (k^-raf). Water bottle; decanter. 

caramel (ka-rarmel). Burnt sugar. 

carottes (ka-rot). Carrots. 

caviar (ka-vl-arO. Roe of sturgeon, salted. 

cSIerl (serrl). Celery. 

cerf (sar). venison; deer. 

cerises (srez). Cherries. 

cervelle (sar-vel'). Brain. [rooms. 

ctaamplgnons (sh&ng'pl-nyong). Mush- 

cb&talfcne (sh&-ta(g)n'). Chestnut. 

cbocolat (sho-ko-la). Chocolate. 

ebon (sho). Cabbage. — ebon flenr (sh5- 
fliir'). Cauliflower.— ctaon de Br nxellea 
(sho-d-br5-sel). Brussels sprouts. 

ctaoncronte (sh&krbt). Sauerkraut, 

citron (se-trong). Lemon. 

colng (kweng). Quince. 

compote (k'ong-pdt). 1. Stew made of 
small birds. 2. Fruit cooked in syrup to 
be eaten with meat. 

concombre ( kong-kong-br ). Cucumber. 

confit (kong-fe). Preserved In sugar. 

confiture (kdng-fe-t5r). Sweetmeat; pre- 
serve; jam. [clear. 

consomm£ (kong-som-ma). Soup that Is 



late, fftt, tuk, fSr, t^l, t&re, (bove; me, met, hSr^ mite, mit; note, not, mOve, wflt; 

mate, hnt, born ; oil, owl, tken. 

452 



cotelettes 



453 



Inplu 



cotelettes (kot-let). Cutlets. 

conlls (ko-le). Meat or flsh brotb. 

conteaa (ko't5). Knite. 

crncblin^. The riDd of roast pork. 

creme (kram^. Cream.— crime d« men- 
the (kram-de-mangi')- A liquor. 

crepes (krap). Pancakes. 

cresson (kres-sdog). Cress. 

crcFette(kre--»-et'). Shrimp. [cracknel. 

croquet (kro-ka). Crisp ginger bread; 

croquettes (kro-ket). Fried cakes made 
of minced fowl, flsb, meat or vegetables. 

crofite (krot). Crust. — crodt€ (kr5-ta). 
Criisty. 

crofiton (kro-toug). Bread cut thin, and 
in yarlouM shapes, tried and used for 
garnishing. 

caill&re (kwi-yar). Spoon. 

cnlsine (kwe-zen'). Kitchen. 

cnra^oa (kd-ra-so-a). 1. A liquor. 2. Fla- 
voring extract from oranges. 

cnrryi Condiment from East India. 

dalm (dang). Deer. 

danbe (dob). Stewed poultry or meats. 

danpliine (do-fen). A small tart. 

dgjenner (da'zhu-na). Breakfast. 

demi (dS-me). Half.— demt glno<g (dS-me- 
gla^sa). 1. A French cream ice. 2. A brown 
sauce.— demi tasse (de-metas). Halt 
cup. Tfrom. 

d€so8Ser (da-zos-sa). Remove the bones 

disqne (disk). Disk. [highly. 

dlable (dya-bl). Deviled; seasoned very 

diner (de'na). Dinner. 



ean 16). Water.— an Terre d'ean (ung 
var do). A glass of water. 

€ctanIotte (a-aha-lot). Shallot. 

eclair (a-klar). Pastry filled with cream. 

SjBflefin (a;gle-fang). Haddock.— €grlefin 
tamie (a-gle-fang tij-ma). Smoked had- 
dock. 

£niinc€e (a-mang-sa). Mince.— patfi d'S- 
mlncSe (pa-ta d'a-mang-sa). Mince pie. 

en casserole (ang kas-rol). Minced and 
cooked with macaroni' or rice. 

entr€e (ang'tra). A course in a dinner. 

entremet (ang'tr-ma). A second course. 

€p»is (a-pa). Thick. 

€paale (a-pol). Shoulder. 

Iperlans (a-par-lang). Smelts. 

Spice (a-pis'). Spice. 

€pinards (grpt-nar). Spinach. 

escalopes (es-kol-op). Escallops. 

espagrnole (es-pa'nyol). Thin sliaes. 

estareeon les-cur-zhdng'). Sturgeon. 

Stonire_(a-t8f-f a). Stewed In the oven. 

farce (tars). Forcemeat. 

farcle (fiir-se). Stuffed. 

figrne (fe-g). Fig. 

flear(flar). A flower. „ ^ 

fole (fwa). Liver.- fole de Tean (fwa 

d'vo). Clalf 's liver.- fole gras (fwa gri). 

Goose liver. 
fondant (fdng-dang). Melting. 



fondne (fong-do). I. Melted. II. Dish 

made of melted cheese. 
forcemeat. Chopped bread crumbs, 

etc., flavored or spiced, as (or stuffing. 
fouette (fwet-ta'). Whipped. 
fonrcliette(for-shet). Fork. 
fonrr6 (fo-ra). Sugar-coated. 
fralses (frS,-z). Strawberries. 
framboise (frang-bwa-z).- Baspberrles. 
frappg (frap'pa). Half frozen. 
fricandeaa (fre-kang-do). Veal larded and 

braised In the oven. 
frtcassSe (fre-ka-sa). A stew. 
frit (f re), frlte (frit). Fried in butter. 
fromaee (fro-mazh). Cheese. 
famSe(to-ma). Smoked. 

gratean (ga-to). Cake.— gateaa assortl 

(ga-to as-sar-ie). Assorted cakes. 

Sanfre (go-fr). WafSe. 

gel£e (zhel-a). Jelly. [Leg of mutton. 

grlgot de monton ( zhl-go-d'm&tong ). 

glngembre (zheng-ztaang-br). Ginger. 

g-IacS (gla-sa'). Frozen. 

glace ( glas ). Ice cream. — glace anx 
fralses (glas o fr3,z). Strawberry ice 
cream. — glace & la Tanille (glas-a-la 
van-e-y). Vanilla ice cream. — glace an 
citron ( glas-o-se-trong ). Lemon ice 
cream. — glace it I'orange (glas-a-lo- 
riiugzhl. Orange ice cream.— glace aa 
cbocolat (glas-6-8hd-ko-la). Chocolate 
ice cream. 

goalasb ( go'Iash ). Hungarian dish of 
stewed veal or beef, highly seasoned. 

gras (an) (o-gra). Accompanied by meat 
gravy. 

grenonille (gre-no-y). Frog. 

graaa (gro-p). Gruel. 

taachls (a-she). Hash. 

Iiareng (a-rang). Herring. 

barlcot (a-ri-kol. Meat stew thickened. 

haricots Terts(a-ri-ko-yar). String beans. 

HoIIandalse (o-lang-daz). 1. Dutch. 2. 

White flsh sauce. 
bomard (5-mar). Lobster. [served cold. 
hors d'cenvre ( ar-d§-vr ). Side dish, 
bnitre (we-tr). Oyster.— Iinftre en co- 

qnllles (we-tr ang ko-ke-y). Escalloped 

oysters. — bnitre frltes (we-tr frit ). 

Fried_ oysters.— taattre grlllSes (we-tr 

gre-ya). Broiled oysters. 

Jambon (zhang'bong). Ham. [bles. 

Jardiniere (zhar-di-nyar). Mixed vegeta- 
Jnllenne ( zhb-l-yeu ). Clear soup with 
vegetables, named for noted French cook. 
Jus (shb). Gravy; juice; broth. 



bammel (kom'mel). A German cordial. 

laltdal. Milk. 
laltne (la-t&). Lettuce. 
lapln (la-pang). Kabbit. 



fate, fat, tisk, fir, fftll, tire, above! me, met, her; mite, mlt; note, not, mBve, wolf; 
mute, hut, bum ; oil, owl, then. 



I€g-aines ^54 



I^gpames (la-g5m). Vegetables. [pork. 
lonee de pore (longzh de-par). Loin of 
luGine (Ib-sln'). Clam. 



macSdolne (]na>-83r^wan)> A mixture of 

vegetables or fruit. 
man (mi-is). Indian corn. 
maqnerean (mak-ro). Mackerel. 
mnrascbino ( ma-ras-ke'no ). A wbite 

liquor used for Savoring (Italian).' 
mnrlnade ( ma-re-nad' ). The liquor in 

wtaieb meat or flsb is pickled. 
marrons ( ma-rong ). Cbestnut. [salads. 
inayonnai8e(m&-yon-naz). A dressing for 
menu (me-uo). BUI of fare. 
merlngae ( m§-rang ). Wblte of egg 

beaten stiff witb sugar. 
mince (mangs). Thin. 
moaase (m&s). A kind of light ice cream. 
montarde (md-tard). Mustard. 
moaton (mo-tong). Mutton.— grieot d« 

monton ( zbl-go-d'mb-tong ). Leg of 

mutton.— cStelette de monton (kot- 

let d'mS-tong). Mutton chop.- Spanle 

de (a-pol de). Shoulder of. 
mnlllgHtawny ( mul-li-ga-ta-nl ). East 

Indian curry soup. [berries. 

mdres saavaires (mbr so-vizh). Black- 



nnvet (na-va). Turnip. 

Nenfcli&tel (nu-sha-tel). A Swiss cheese. 

nolx (nwa). 1. Nut. 2. Walnut. 

nolx mnscade (nwa m&s-kad). Nutmeg. 

nouUIes (ng-y). Noodles. 

oenfs (u). Eggs.— cenfs bronlII£s (ii brb- 
ya). Scrambled eggs. — oenfs poctaSs 
la posh-a). Poached eggs.— oenfs frtts 
(ii fre). Fried eggs.— oenfs snr le plat 
(ii sdr IS pla). Shirred eggs.— oenfis frits 
an Jambon (ii fre-zS zhang-bong). Fried 
bam and eggs. 

oie (wa). Qoose. 

olgnon (on-yong). Onion. 



pain (pang). Bread.— pain rotl (pang 

ro-te). Toast. 
panaclie(pa-na-sha). Mixed with cream or 

with two or more vegetables. [or milk. 
panade (pa-nad). Bread soaked in water 
panais (pa-na). Parsnips. [crumbs. 

paner (pa-na). Dip in egg and roll in 
panneqnets(pan-ka). Pancakes. [per. 
papriba (pa-pre'kaj. Hungarian red pep- 
par fait (par-fa). Perfect. [Parma, Italy. 
Parmesan (par'me-zan). Cheese made in 
patates (pa-t&t). Sweet potatoes. 
pSte (pat). Dough or paste.— pSte fenll- 

letge (pat fS-y-ta). Puff paste. 
pSt6 (pa-ta). Pastry; pie.— p&t£ d'£min> 

cSe (p&-ta da-mang-sfij. Mince pie. — 

S&t6 de fole gras (pii-ta d'twa-gra). 
oose liver paste. 
pfitisserle (p&-tis-re). Pastry. 
pSetae (pash). Peach. 



perclie (parsh). Perch. 

persll (pSr-se). Parsley. 

petit (pete), petite (pe-tet). Small. 

piccalilli. Chopped, pickled vegetables. 

pi^ce de resistance (pe-es-de-ra-zist- 
angs). Most important dish of a dinner, 

plment (pe-mang). 1. Bed pepper. S. 
Allspice. 

piqnant (pe-kang). Sharp in flavor. 

plane (pe-ka). Larded. 

plenvler (plu-vya). Plover. 

poctaS (po-sha). Poached. 

polrean (pwa-ro). Leek. 

polrSe (pwa-ra). Beet. 

poires (pwar). Fears. 

pols (pwa). Peas. 

poison (pwa-zong). Poison. 

polsson (pwas-song). Fish. 

polvre (pwa-vr). Pepper. 

pomme(pom). Apple. 

pomme de terre (pom-de-tar). Potatnes. 
— pommes de terre bonillles (pom- 
dSaSr-bS-ye). Boiled potatoes.— pommts 
de terre rSties (pom-detar-ro-te). 
Baked potatoes. — pommes de terre 
pnrSes (i>om-de-tar-p&-ra). Mashed pota- 
toes. 

ponche (pongsh). Punch. [Loin of pork. 

porc(par).-longredeporc(long-zh de-par) 

potaere (po-tazb). 1. Soup. 2. Soupoon- 
talniDg bread slices. — pota^e anx 
linitres (po-t4zh-o-zwe-tr). Oyster soup. 

pot an fen (po-td-fii). Beef broth. 

pot ponrrl (po por-re). Stew contain- 
ing several meats with spices. 

ponding: (pS-dang). Pudding. 

prlutaiiler(prang-tan-ya), printnniere 
(prang-tau-yar). With spring vegetables. 

prnneanx (pr5-nd). Prunes. 

pnrSe (pb-ra). Vegetables or other ingre- 
dients rubbed through a sieve. 



qnenelles (ke-nel'). Egg-shaped balls 
made of pounded white meat. 



radis (ra-de). Hadishes. 

raeofit (ra-gb't Highly spiced meat stew. 

raifort (ra-for). Horseradish. 

rls fre). Sweetbread.— rls de vean (re- 
d'vo). Calf sweetbreads. 

rissoles ( ris-sol ). Meat or fish minced, 
rolled in pastry, and fried ; patties. 

rlz (re). Bice.— rlz bonllll (rebb-ye). 
Boiled rice. 

rognons (ro-nybng). Kidneys.— rognon 
sante (ro-uyong sb-ta). Stewed kidney. 

rSti (ro-te). 1. Boast. 2. Toast.— pain r6i4 
an benrre (pang rb-te b bSr). Buttered 
toast. — ^paln rSti h. la crSme (pang rb- 
te-^-la-krgm). Cream toast.— pain rStl 
sec (pang ro-te sek). Dry toast. — pain 
r6tlanlalt (pang rb-te bla). Milk toast. 

ronlnde (rb-lad). Meat slice rolled up with 
bacon, tied up and cooked. 

ronelle (rb-el). 1. Slice. 2. Bound. 

ronx ( rb ). Flour and butter, cooked 
together and used for soups and saucea 



f&te, fat, tisk, fftr, tflll, f&re, Q^bove; me, met, hSr; mite, mlt; nSte, not, mOve, wfU; 
mQte, but, burn ; oil, owl. than. 



salade 455 

unlade (sa-lad). Salad. 

aalml (saline). Stew of game. [sugar. 

sangareeCsang-ga-re). Claret, waver and 

sancidre (so-syar). Sauce-boat. 

sanclsse (so'sls). Sausage. 

sanmon (so-mong). Salmon. 

saate (so-ta). Tossed while cooking. 

sel (sel). Salt. * 

ser-vlette (sar-vyet). Napkin. 

sippets. Pieces of bread, cut in fancy 
shapes, and fried, for garnishing. 

sorbet (s5r-l)a). Punch or other bever- 
ages partially frozen. 

Borbetierc (sor-be-tyar). Ice cream mold. 

soufflee (sb-fla). Lightly baked omelet 
or pudding. 

soaper (s<}-pa). Supper. 

stock. The broth or basis for soup. 

sacrerle (s5-kr-re). Sweetmeats. 

snprgme (so-pram). White cream sauce, 
from chicken broth, flavored. 

table d'liSte (iSTjl-dot). Guests' table. 

tartare (tar-tall. Tartar. 

tassSe (ta-sa). Cupful. 

terrapere (tar-a-par). Terrapin. 

terrlne (tar-ln ). Barthen pan. 

the (ta). Tea.— tta€ noir (ta nwar). Black 
tea. — the vert (ta-var). Green tea. — 
the inSie (ta-ma-la). Mixed tea. — the 
KlacS (ta-gla-sa}. Iced tea. 

tlinbale (tang-bal). Fie, especially meat 
pie, baked in a mold resembling an in- 
verted cup. 

tomates (to-mat). Tomatoes, 



zwieback 

tortne (tor-tB). Turtle. 

lonrte (tSrt). Tart. 

truffles (trfa-f). Truffles. 

trulte (tr-wlt). Trout.— trnlte an Men 
(tr-wlt-6-blul. Brook trout. — trnlte de 
lac (tr-wit de lak). Lake trout — trnlte 
saumone ( tr-wlt so-mo-na ). Salmon 
trout. 



vanille £va-ne-y). Vanilla. 

vean (vo). Veal. — cStelette de Tean 

( kot-let-dS-vo ). Veal cutlet. — du vean 
rStl (d& v6 ro-te). Eoast veal. 

velonte (v§-15-ta). White sauce made of 
mushroom juice. 

venalson (ve-na-zong). Venison. 

vermlcelle (var-mi-sel). Vermicelli. 

verrSe (var-ra). Glassful. 

vert (var). Green. 

Vllleroi (vel-rwa). White sauce flavored 
with mushrooms. 

vlnalgre (ve-na-gr). Vinegar. 

vinaigre ( ve-na-gra ). Seasoned with 
vinegar. 

vinaigrette (ve-na-gret). Sauce made of 
pepper, herbs, oil and vinegar. 

vulallle (v6-la-y). Poultry. 

vol an vent (v61-6-vong). Puff-paste crust 
filled with sweetbreads, ragouts of chick- 
en, etc. 



zwieback (zwi-bak). Ger. (tswe-bok). 
Bread twice toasted. 



Notes on French Pronunciation 

There are a few sounds in French for which no exact English equivalent can 
be given. For instance, the nasal n. In respelUng for pronunciation, is indicated by 
the letters ng, but the g is not sounded. The nearest equivalent that can be found 
in English, is in the word eong. A difUcult vowel Is the French « (German ii), 
which can only be marked as the English Q as in move. It is produced by pronoun- 
cing e while the mouth is in position for o. The close sound of the French 6, as in 
eafi, is marked in the respelUng as long a (ka-fa), but the correct sound is between 
the English long a and short e. 

A word-accent does not exist in the French language, but in certain cases 
where accentuation seems noticeable, it is shown in the respelling. 

The sonnd of a vowel is sometimes prolonged to the extent of apparently 
separating from it the following consonant. In this case, it is indicated in the respel- 
Ung, as carottet (ka-ro-t). The system of diacritical markings is the same as that 
used in Laird & Lee's Webster's New Standard Dictionary, a key to which may be 
found at the foot of each page of the vocabulary. 



fate, fat, task, rUr, fgU, f&re, %boTe; me, met, her; mste, mit; note, not, mSve, viflt; 
mate, but, bum ; oil, owl, then, r 



Drink less, breathe more; eat less, chew more; ride less, walk more; 
clothe less, bathe more; worry less, work more; waste less, give more; write 
less, read more. Anything that is worth doing at all is worth doing well. Be 
temperate in all things. Don't give up to that human pest — Fear. 

Pour to the right and serve to the left. Coifee is sometimes served in the 
drawing-room and may also be poured in the kitchen and brought to the table, 
but there is always danger of its getting more or less cold, therefore it is con- 
sidered good form, especially at the femily table, for the lady of the house, or 
hostess, to pour the coffee or tea, and also to serve the salads, butter, etc. The 
man of the house, or host, who should carve, serves each one around the table, 
the hostess first. Hotels, restaurants and boarding houses usually dish up the 
food in the kitchen. The principal meat dishes should be placed in front of 
the person being served; the smaller dishes arranged accordingly. It is as 
much of an art to wait upon one properly as it is to set the table correctly. 

EVERYBODY'S REMEDY FOR CATARRH. 

Oil Santal (English) Drops 12 

Oil Gaulth or Wintergreen " 15 

Oil Cassia or Cinnamon " 8 

Menthol Grains 15 

Medoline Medicated or Alboline Ounces 4 

Use night and morning or oftener if necessary. Warm or hot weather is 
the best time to doctor catarrh, for the reason that the affected parts wilt heal 
more quickly. If the disease has become chronic, snuff a little boracic acid 
powder up the nostrils. This attacks the germs and prepares the way for the 
liquid medicine, which soothes and heals. Then in about 15 or 20 minutes, 
use the liquid in an atomizer. If there is a sore, the powder will cause more 
or less pain- at first, but persevere and in a short time, relief will be apparent. 

PURE COLD CREAM. 

Cut fine 240 grains of white wax, 2 ounces spermaceti into 7 ounces oil 
of sweet almonds, melt together over a gentle fire in a porcelain kettle; when 
dissolved, add 4 ounces best rose water; when cold, add 6 drops attar of 
roses; beat well for one hour, put in jars. Use at night before retiring or 
during the day if desired. The face should be washed first in warm water. 

THE STANDARD HOUSEHOLD CLEANER. 
Two bars of naphtha soap, chipped fine, Y^ pound washing soda, ^ pound 
powdered borax, X pound fuller's earth. Dissolve the soap in 10 quarts of 
water and boil until clear. Let cool and when cold add the other ingredients and 
stir until thoroughly mixed, add 10 more quarts of water and stir unjil smooth. 
This preparation will clean anything that is dirty — furniture, wood-work, carpets, 
and clothing. . Apply with a sponge and wipe with a clean cloth. 

456 



WALL-PAPER CLEANER. 
Take 3 pints of flour and 1 of powdered prepared whiting. Sift together 
and add enough cold water to make a stiff dough. Take a lump the size of an 
egg, knead the dough, after each stroke, to keep a clean surface when placed 
on paper. This quantity is sufficient to clean the ceiling and walls of a larre 
room. ^ 

SURE PREVENTION AGAINST MOSQUITOES. 
Put in a six-ounce bottle 3 ounces of sweet oil, % ounce oil of tar, M ounce 
oil of pennyroyal. Shake well and apply to hands and face or any exposed part 
of the body. Invaluable for hunters, fishermen, campers or any one annoyed by 
these httle msects. If this preparation is used as directed it will do just what is 
claimed for it — drive off and keep away mosquitoes. 

EXCELLENT FOR RHEUMATISM. 
From one-gallon bottle of distilled water take 1 quart and boil twenty 
minutes ;_ pour the hot water over 1 pouud crystal sodium phosphate, to 
dissolve it, then pour the solution into the gallon bottle from which the water 
was taken. Take about % glassful three times a day, before or after meals. 

HOW TO EXTERMINATE HOUSEHOLD PESTS. 
Destroys Bed Bugs, Moths, Roaches and Water Bugs. — Make a strong 
solution of alum and hot water ; apply to furniture or crevices in the walls with 
a paint brush. This is sure destruction to noxious vermin, is perfectly safe to 
use, leaves no unpleasant traces behind, and is said to be invaluable, also easily 
obtained. When moths have lodged in the border of carpets, wet the edges of 
the carpets with the solution and whenever it reaches them it is certain death. 

A GOOD LINIMENT. 
Aqua ammonia, spirits camphor, spirits turpentine, olive oil, take equal parts> 
shake well before using and apply externally, as often as required. 

FOR INSOMNIA OR TO RELIEVE A COLD. 

Take 1 cup of very hot milk, add '/i teaspoonful of pulverized ginger. 
Drink just before retiring. This simple remedy has been known to break up a 
cold and stop a cough, and is said to be excellent. Take out-door exercise. 

DIET. 
If troubled with corpulency, eat freely of fruits, carrots, spinach, tomatoes, 
asparagus, good, fresh fish, young chickens, etc. Starches and sugars should 
not be eaten by those suffering ff'om rheumatism. Avoid coffee, eggs and all 
dark or red meats, especially beef, and use no alcoholic liquors of any kind, 
in case of kidney disorders, but drink plenty of good, pure water. 

SIMPLE REMEDY FOR SUMMER COMPLAINT. 

A teaspoonful of prepared powdered charcoal stirred thoroughly into a 
glass of water and taken after each meal will cure the most obstinate case 
of summer trouble. Sweetens the stomach and corrects indigestion, 

ONIONS — A GREAT PURIFIER. 

Raw onions eaten freely two or three times a day are said to be an 
excellent remedy for gall-stones and gravel by absorption; also splendid for 
the kidneys and rheumatism, — young . onions, of course, are preferable in 
spring and summer, and Bermuda and Spanish onions in winter season. 

457 



Wedding Anniversaries 




1 sj COTTON 
2NP PAPER 
3RP LEATHER 
3™ WOODEN 
7TH WOOLEN 
lOIH TIN 
121? SILK&LINEN 
15 H? CRYSTAL 
ZOll CHINA 
25™ SILVER 
30™ PEARL 
40™ RUBY 
50 ™ GOLDEN 
75™ DIAMOND 



Oqplflit, Itoe.bf Wa. H. Ul. 



♦^^^^ 



S?H^SW455IHfl8!S!B8WSSt!S5!aS9W3K5SSW^^ 



a 



Edited by IDA LEWIS MASON, Special Teacher of Sewing in Chicago Schools. 



Department 32. 

DOMESTIC ECONOMY means more than merely saving money in man- 
aging the household. It means, also, the spending of money judiciously, 
the saving of time and labor, and , conducting the affairs of the home to 
the best possible advantage. This department, therefore, treats not only of 
economical household management, but also crochet work, embroidery, plain 
and fancy sewing, knitting. The Modern Kitchen, Foods for Each Month, 
Don'ts for the Kitchen, The Laundry, and Household Expense Accounts. 



Domestic Economy, that branch of Domestic Science which 
treats of the economical and skillful management of household af- 
fairs, is based upon scientific knowledge and practical experience. 

Domestic Science is now being introduced into the grammar 
schools and many of the high schools, which should have a good 
influence in leading young women more correctly to estimate the 
importance and dignity of household economics. 

Health is the first and most important consideration of Domes- 
tic Economy. It is true, the comfort and prosperity of the home 
largely depend upon a good and wise use of the money provided 
for its maintenance; but neither comfort nor prosperity can be 
enjoyed in any household without good health. 

The guiding principles, therefore, in the management of the 
home should be founded upon strict attention to hygienic laws. 

Th? actual thinp t9 be studied in Dom«sti? §9if?i?^ ar? tH? 

4§9 



460 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

daily necessaries of life. The first and most essential is food — its 
varieties, digestion, preparation and uses; for the health, happi- 
ness and contentment of the home depend largely upon the knowl- 
edge of the good and bad qualities of foods, and how to select and 
prepare them in accordance with the laws of health. 

Domestic Economy teaches how to spend money as well as 
how to save it. Mere parsimony is not economy, and the woman 
who is close or stingy is not always economical. There is a true 
economy and a false economy. Domestic Science enables the 
housekeeper to distinguish the true from the false. 

Warmth, Light and Clothing. — ^True economy provides a suf- 
ficiency of warmth, clothing, and light, knowing that stinting in 
any of these items will either lead to forced expenditure in other 
directions or in the doctor's and optician's bills. 

Repairs. — True economy keeps everything in the house in a 
state of careful repair ; false economy saves this small outlay, but 
ultimately is put to the greater expense of either buying new 
goods or paying for more costly and extensive repairs. 

Table and House Linen. — True economy keeps the stock of 
house and table linen replenished; false economy saves this ex- 
pense, but when all is fallen into a condition of extreme shabbiness 
it is put to the excessive outlay of buying a whole new stock in- 
stead of replacing the necessary articles from time to time. 

Tools. — True economy provides proper tools and appliances 
for household work, whereas through false economy time, pa- 
tience, and temper are lost in attempting to manage without them. 

Materials. — ^True economy buys only good materials, whether 
in clothing or food ; false economy buys cheap goods that most 
always prove to be unsatisfactory, or in the case of food are not 
wholesome. False economy buys articles at sales merely because 
of. cheapness. In this way much money is frittered away, and the 
goods that have been so purchased rarely prove .useful. 

Savings. — ^True economy saves money and invests it in some 
safe and profitable way as a provision for the rainy day. False 
economy spends all its earnings without obtaining real comfort, 
as what it saves by parsimony in one direction it is compelled to 
spend in another, proving "a penny wise and a pound foolish." 



DEPARTMENT 33 461 



HEAT ECONOMY. 



If health and life are to be sustained with the least waste of 
vitality and force, it is important that a degree of uniformity 
should be maintained in the temperature of the home. 

The temperature of the human body is invariably the same, 
between that of 98 and 99 degrees Fahrenheit, the difference 
under normal conditions being unimportant. 

The human body possesses its own power of regulating the 
temperature. Should the outer air be extra cold, then the proc- 
ess of oxidation is carried on more quickly, more food is con- 
sumed, and more heat is produced and the temperature is thereby 
maintained. If the air is extremely hot, much of the blood ia 
carried to the surface of the skin, considerable perspiration is 
secreted and passes to the surface of the body, where its evap- 
oration lowers the temperature, and maintains its normal heat. 

But both processes are wasteful and if used constantly would 
consume the food and energy that are required for other purposes. 
The extra amount of food needed in the first case would make 
greater demands upon the digestive organs, and therefore leave 
less margin for brain work, while the excessive loss in the second 
case would weaken the system. Therefore it is necessary to 
secure a medium in the temperature of the home. Air is a much 
poorer conductor of heat than water is, and can therefore be borne 
much cooler, so,- while a temperature of 60 degrees would be 
found unpleasantly cold in a bath, it is generally considered as t^e 
point of comfort to the body when exposed to the air. 

Great individual differences are noticed with different persons, 
some requiring a much warmer atmosphere than others. 

As a rule, children require a warmer atmosphere than adults, 
for the relative amount of surface -whereby the body loses heat 
is greater in a child, therefore heat leaves the body more rapidly. 
Old people and invalids require more warmth than the average 
healthy adult^ because the vital processes in the body j)roceed 
more gradually, hence they cannot take the necessary exercise for 
maintaining vital heat. An atmosphere of from 55 to 60 degrees 



463 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 



within doors is usually regarded as the best for healthy adults 
and from 60 to 65 degrees for old people, invalids and children. 

One's feelings are unreliable for ascertaining the temperature 
of a room, because heat and cold are relative terms. A room that 
would appear warm to a person coming in from the cold outer air, 
would seem cold to one who had been cooking over a hot fire. 
Often a room is pronounced "hot," when, as a matter of fact, it is 
only close and stuffy. A thermometer, therefore, should be hung 
in the room where the average degree of heat can be ascertained. 



CROCHET WORK. 

A small hook of ivory, steel or wood (called crochet-needle) 
is used for doing crochet work, by means of which most beautiful 
designs, in various col- 
ors, may be worked 
with the greatest facil- 
ity. Threads of linen, 
cotton, worsted, and 
silk are all suitable 
materials for this kind 
of hand work, but the 
purpose for which it is 
intended must neces- 
sarily determine the 
choice. 

Crochet may be divided into plain single crochet, plain double 
crochet, plain stitch open crochet, and open crochet with one, two, 
three or more stitches. 

Mode of Working the Crochet Stitch. — Make a loop, and with 
the hook draw the thread through it, thus forming another loop ; 
through this second loop draw another loop, and so on ; moderately 
tightening each, as it is drawn through, until a chain of sufficient 
length be made to serve as the foundation for the article intended 
to be worked. Pass the hook through the last loop of this founda- 
tion, and, catching the thread, draw it through, repeating the same 
at every successive step ; then return along this row, and, in a simi- 
lar manner, form a second, A repetition of this process, alter- 




Crochet Stitcbing. 



DEPARTMENT 33 463 

nately backwards and forwards, from right to left, and from left to 
right, will give the first lesson. The work will be the same on 
both sides, producing by turns, one raised, and one sunken row. 

The foundation of crochet work is called a chain, and is formed 
by a succession of loops drawn one through the other. 

The Different Kinds of Crochet Work. 

Plain Single Crochet. — Where one loop only is made on the 
crochet needle and drawn through each stitch. It is lighter and 
thinner than double crochet. 

Plain Double Crochet. — ^Where two loops are kept on the 
needle and the thread drawn through both, before the stitch is 
finished. This is the crochet stitch generally practiced. 

Double Stitch Crochet. — Both meshes of the chain are taken 
It is principally employed where extra thickness is required, but 
is not suitable for working patterns. 

Plain Stitch Elastic Crochet. — Worked alternately in rows 
backwards and forwards, from right to left and from left to right, 
always taking the under mesh of the chain. 

Plain Stitch Open Crochet. — Composed of chains, of five 
stitches each in length, forming loops, each stitch being crocheted 
to the center stitch of the corresponding loop in the preceding row. 

Open Crochet. — Worked (as nearly as can be described) as 
follows: Make a chain of the length required; work one plain 
stitch at the beginning. Bring the thread round the needle, and 
pass the needle through the first loop of the chain ; through this 
bring the thread, which makes three stitches on the needle ; draw 
the thread through the first two stitches, which leaves two on the 
needle ; then draw the thread through these two, which leaves one 
on the needle ; through this one make one plain stitch. Put the 
thread over the needle, and bring it through the third loop of the 
chain; the three stitches, as before, will now be found on the 
needle ; draw the thread through the first two, which leaves two on 
the needle ; draw the thread through these two, which finishes the 
stitch, and leaves one upon the needle as before. The plain stitch 
that is then made between the two double stitches, allows for the 
Stitch which was passed in the chain, and leaves an open space, 



'464 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Double Open Crochet. — Similar to the open crochet stitch, but 
varied by making the two long stitches together; this is done by 
omitting the single stitch, and passing the needle through the next 
loop of the chain, instead of missing one stitch ; thus producing 
two stitches together, and then an open space. 

EMBROIDERY. 

Origin. — The art of embroidery, or producing devices on tex- 
tile fabrics by means of needlework, is of very ancient origin. 
The Greeks attributed its invention to Minerva, but it has been 
proved that the art was introduce^ into Greece from Persia. The 
Egyptians, Babylonians, Medes, and Persians all excelled in it.. 

Embroidery should not be confounded with tapestry. The 
essential distinction between the two is, that tapestry is the high- 
est development of the art of weaving, wherein patterns, designs, 
and pictures, rivaling in finish and effect th? finest paintings, are 
produced by a manipulation of the threads forming the weft of 
the woven texture in the process of weaving, while embroidery is 
a working of threads upon an already complete textile, so as to 
form patterns, designs or pictures. 

Modern imitations of fine ancient tapestry are sometimes pro- 
duced in embroidery work, but are far inferior to the original. • 

Materials. — ^The most expensive materials upon which em- 
broidery is worked are silk, satin, velvet, plush, tissue, and gold 
and silver cloth. Among cheaper materials are linens of various 
degrees of fineness, crash, sateen, scrim (a strong cotton or linen 
cloth for curtains) , serge, and canton flannel. 

Crewels (slackly twisted yarns) are used for working on linen, 
serge and flannel. Tapestry yarn is much thicker than crewel, 
and is useful on coarse fabrics. Embroidery silk is preferred for 
silk, satin, or fine materials of any kind. Plush is the most elegant 
and effective material for banners, draperies, and covers. 

It always answers better to use good fabrics, threads and im- 
plements. A design worked on good linen will be much more 
effective when finished than the same thing carried out on com- 
mon silk or satin. Good needles are all but indispensable. Not 
only are they easier to work with because the points are better, 



DEPARTMENT 32 466 

but the eyes are generally of a more convenient shape and have 
not, moreover, the tiresome habit of fraying the thread, and finally 
breaking it, which characterizes the cheaper kinds. 

Frames. — When working on a frame, either of the small ring 
type or the oblong shape, it is well, if possible, to use one with a 
stand. The plain flat frames are not very easily manipulated by 
an inexperienced worker, and often force the worker to sit 
in positions which become after a time somewhat trying. 

Stitches. — Laid work and applique (pronounced ap-li-kay) 
should be worked on a frame, as should also fine satin stitch. 
Other stitches can mostly be carried out satisfactorily either way, 
but chain stitch, button-hole, and the stitches belonging more 
peculiarly to fancy work can generally be worked more quickly 
while in the hand. 

Tent Stitch. — The most elementary stitch is perhaps the "tent 
stitch,"- which is simply a little diagonal stitch taken from one 
thread of the canvas or linen on which it is worked to the next. 

Cross Stitch. — The cross stitch is composed of two diagonal 
stitches crossing one another, and covering as a rule a little 
square of nine threads (three in each direction). Care should be 
taken in working this stitch always to work the stitches the same 
way. In working a solid pattern in cross stitch, it is quicker and 
better to make a whole row of stitches going one way, and then 
come back and cross them. Half-cross stitch is worked by carry- 
ing a thread across the middle of the row to be worked and cross- 
ing this by a single diagonal stitch. 

Herring-bone Stitch or Cat Stitch. — A kind of cross stitch, 
made of rows of diagonal stitches, for a description of which see 
Sewing, page 468. 

Cushion Stitch. — Another effective stitch worked on the lines 
of the mesh is the "cushion" or florentine stitch. Worked in 
diagonal rows. Make a straight stitch extending over six threads 
of canvas, then bring needle out beyond the next thread three 
holes higher up than it was put in, and continue in the same way. 

Plaited Stitch. — 'Consists simply of two rows of diagonal 
stitches, sloping in opposite directions, and coming to a point in 
the center. Beginning at the lower edge of the work, make a diag- 



466 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

onal stitch from left to right (upwards), covering four threads, 
and bring the needle out again immediately below where it has 
been put in and two holes lower down, then make another diag- 
onal stitch (upwards again) from right to left, and put the needle 
in on the same thread that it was brought out on for the original 
stitch but six holes higher up. Then bring the needle out again 
on the lower edge of the work in the hole next, or next but one to 
the one where work was begun, and continue. 

Satin Stitch. — Consists of a simple straight line, and can be 
worked in two ways, i. e. by bringing the needle out at the oppo- 
site side of the work from that on which it was put in, so that 
there is as much silk at the back as on the front ; or by bringing 
the needle out again a little lower down than where it went in on 
the same edge of the work, so that there is only a small vertical 
stitch at the back. This last is often called surface satin stitch. 

Magic Chain Stitch, — The method of working this stitch is as 
follows: Take two different colored threads in the needle, say 
one yellow and one red ; begin by keeping the red one under the 
left thumb and under the needle and let the yellow one lie to the 
right, out of the way; pull the needle through and there is the 
red stitch. For the next loop, keep the yellow thread to the left 
under the needle and let the red one lie to the right; pull the 
needle through and there is the yellow stitch. 

Stem Stitch or Outline Stitch. — The stem stitch is very simple. 
It is just a single long stitch forward, and a short one backward, 
and then another long in advance of the first. 

Embroidery Buttonhole Stitch. — ^Run a straight or scalloped 
line at the edge of the material and commence to work from left 
to right. Bring the needle up from the back of the material, put 
it down into the material over the run line, and bring it up under 
that line, and draw up with the needle over the working thread, so 
that a loop is formed on the material. Continue to make these 
loops along the line, put the needle down above the run line, 
and close to the stitch last made, bring it up under the run line, 
and take up the same amount of material at each stitch. 

Split Stitch. — Is a variety of stem stitch, but in bringing the 
needle up through the material, it is passed through the embroid- 
ery silk or crewel. " 



DEPARTMENT 32 46T 

Feather Stitch. — Feather stitching is considered one of the 
easiest of the ornamental stitches to work and is also one of the 
slowest and most effective. It is durable and makes a pretty 
finish for all kinds of sewing, although it especially is appropriate 
for underwear and for babies' clothes. On cotton fabrics it is 
worked in embroidery cotton and in silk, wool or flax. The stitch 
is worked on the right side of the material, towards the worker, 
and the needle is taken alternately on the right 
and left side of the pattern and the cotton from 
the last stitch must be carried under the needle 
so as to form what is known as a loop stitch. 

To carry the thread under the needle is the 
most essential point in the whole stitch. The 
stitches are taken so that the top of one stitch 
will be on a direct line with the bottom of the 
preceding stitch. 

It is not necessary in every case to count 
the threads, as the distance can be gauged cor- 
rectly enough with the eye. Feather stitch. 

Place a knot on the end of the thread and («'"«'« ^'^^ S''^^'- 
stick the needle up from the wrong to the right side so as to bring 
the knot on the wrong side. Now, holding the work towards the 
worker, take a small straight stitch, the top point of which will 
be on a direct line, but about a quarter of an inch to the left of the 
point from which the start was made. Before pulling the needle 
through carry the thread under it so as to form a thread that 
slants diag9nally from the bottom of one stitch to the bottom of 
the next. 

Take the third stitch in the same manner, a quarter of an inch 
to the right of ±he second stitch or directly under the first. 

Drawn Work consists in drawing out the threads of linen, and 
working designs, or 'filling in the sort of lace foundation thus 
made with whatever stitch one pleases. Appropriate for tidies, 
and for the bordering of pillow shams, spreads, and curtains. 

Outlines.— When working outlines, great care should be taken 
to keep precisely the line of the pattern, and to keep the thread to 
the left of the needle. Leaves and flowers of conventional de- 




468 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

signs, should be nicely drawn or stamped before beginning work. 
Applique (pronounced ap-li-kay') Work is simply transferred 
work. Cut out pretty figures from damask or cretonne, or the 
best parts of old and worn embroideries, and stitch them securely 
on a foundation of lace. One of the prettiest kinds of applique 
work is that of cutting groups of flowers out of cretonne chintz, 
and laying them on black satin. The edges are fastened down 
with button-hole stitch, the petals of the flowers are worked in 
crewels, and the leaves veined with embroidery stitch. 

SEWING. 

IMPORTANT: To do good sewing, it is essential to have 
suitable materials or implements with which to work, and a brief 
description of each follows : 

NECESSARY MATERIALS : Shears, needles, thread, thim- 
ble, emery, pins, beeswax, tape measure. 

Shears.— Suitable shears are a necessity if the garments are to 
be cut properly. Those with long sharp blades are the best. The 
ones having blades less than six inches long are called scissors. 
Scissors are good for cutting threads, but when a garment has to 
be cut, shears are necessary. When cutting a seam never quite 
close the blades as a notch is likely to occur. Every sewing 
basket should have both scissors and shears — ^buttonhole scissors, 
(short cutting-edged) however, are not absolutely necessary. 

Needles. — The different kinds of needles are sharps (the long- 
est and slenderest needles), betweens (short and thick needles), 
blunt or ground-downs (needles shorter than sharps), crewel, 
milliner's, darning, leather and raffia or blunt needles. 

For young sewers the ground-downs are excellent, as they do 
not bend or break easily. More experienced sewers prefer sharps, 
a longer needle. Tailors and workers on heavy cloth prefer the 
ground-downs or betweens, short and thick needles. 

The milliner's needle is long and is considered good for basting. 

A bent or blunt needle should never be used in sewing. 

Needles range in size from No. 1, the coarsest, to No. 12, the 
finest. The needle should be selected according t« the quality of 



DEPARTMENT 32 469 

cloth and thread to be used. Numbers of needles and thread used 
on cotton cloth : 

Thread Nos. 30, 36, 40, Needle No. 7. 

Thread Nos. 40, 50, 60, 70, Needle No. 8. 

Thread Nos. 80, 90, 100, Needle No. 9. 

Thread Nos. 100, 110, 120, 150, Thread No. 10 or No. 11. 

One fault of many sewers is the using of too coarse needles 
and thread; which is sure to make the work untidy, no matter 
how carefully the stitches are made. 

Thread. — ^Thread is made of cotton, flax, silk and wool, but the 
one most important for ordinary sewing is the cotton, and only 
the best brands should be used. There is no economy in buying 
cheaper grades of thread as there is less thread on a spool and 
the quality is not good. The best is the cheapest. 

Thread runs more smoothly if the end hanging from the spool 
is put into the needle — the needle threads more easily if the thread 
is broken or snapped off, but should always be cut from the work. 
Thread of about an arm's length is a good measure. Fine thread 
must be shorter than coarse thread. 

Thimbles. — ^These useful little implements were originally 
made in England about two hundred years ago by John Lofting. 
At first they were made of iron and brass but now are made of 
gold, silver, ivory, celluloid and aluminum. Formerly, they were 
worn on the thumb and called "thumb-bells" from which the word 
"thimble," is derived. No one should sew without a thimble. 

Emery. — The emery bag (a small case filled with emery) is 
used to keep the needles well polished. 

Pins. — A fine, sharp-pointed English pin is the best, and a 
paper should be kept in a convenient place. Every seam should 
first be placed carefully, then pinned — ^the pins placed at right 
angles to the seam to avoid drawing one side more than the other. 
After the seam is pinned it should be basted. 

Beeswax comes from the cells of the honey-comb, and is yel- 
low, unless it has been bleached. A little cake of it is useful to 
the seamstress. Thread drawn lightly over the wax will not 
kink and is more durable; too much wax soils the work. All 
gathering threads should be waxed to keep the gathers in place. 



470 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Tape-line is often necessary in order to get an exact measure, 
therefore should form a part of the outfit. Some are thirty-six 
inches long, but the ones sixty inches are better. The divisions 
are calculated in inches ; the inch, the half, quarter, eighth and the 
sixteenth. 

The beauty of the sewing depends upon the evenness and reg- 
ularity of the stitches, and great care must be exercised to keep 
the work clean and fresh. The cloth should be folded, never 
crumpled and each piece, no matter how trifling, should be invari- 
ably kept neat. The hands should always be clean. 

The first important step for the beginner to learn is how to 
hold and use the needle, and a course of finger exercises should 
be taught and practiced for ten or fifteen minutes during every 
lesson. 

STITCHES: Divided into Practical and Ornamental. First, 
are considered the practical stitches and then the application to 
garments, beginning with the simplest, and continuing with the 
ones that are most necessary. 

Basting consists of temporary stitches used to hold the cloth 
in place and to serve as a guide line to the permanent stitches. 
They must be very carefully placed to secure the best result in 
sewing. There are iour varieties used in the ordinary sewing. 
(1.) The even, having the stitches the same length on both 
sides and used for particular work, as seams of waists, etc., the 
stitches may be one-fourth of an inch or less ; (2.) Uneven bast- 
ing — one-eighth by one-half inch. This may be used for hems. 
Take one stitch at a time and be sure both folds are held to the 
outside. For seams the uneven basting may be one-eighth by 
three-fourths of an inch. (3.) Long and two or three short 
stitches : This variety of basting is used to hold crepe, mohair, lace 
and any thin or wiry goods, as it holds much better than the un- 
even. (4.) Diagonal : This basting is used to hold a lining to 
the outside and is sometimes called "tacking." The stitch on top 
is slanting an inch or more long, and on the under side the stitch 
is one-fourth of an inch long and vertical. This basting is used 
also on velvet and should be worked with silk thread. 

Basting is generally best placed below the stitching about one- 



DEPARTMENT 32 



471 



half inch from edge. Many like it above the sewing one-eighth 
inch from edge, but in loosely woven goods, this is apt to pull out 
the threads. In an 




The Four Varieties of Basting Stitches. 



over-hand seam the 

basting should be only 

one-eighth inch below 

edges. All basting 

threads should be cut 

every two or three 

inches when removed. 

It is not necessary to 

baste as closely for ma- 
chine as for hand work. 

Seam Stitches. — ^The next stitches after the basting to be con- 
sidered are the stitches used in making the seams. There can be 
no absolute rule as to the width of seams, all depending upon the 
material to be sewed. For white work — muslins — a good rule is 
one-fourth inch seam which, unless the cloth is sleazy, is sufficient 
for strength. The stitches in the order of their power to bear 
strain are : running, combination, half-back, back, over hand. 

Running stitches are similar to even basting but are very small, 
abojit one-sixteenth of an inch in fine work, a small knot concealed 
at the beginning is allowable but no knots must be used along 
the seam. Join by oversewing a few stitches and a back stitch. 
Hold the work between the thumb and fore-finger of each hand 
and have the cloth smooth between the thumbs. The needle 
should be pressed against the thimble opposite the finger-nail. 
With a swift motion of the right hand run or shake the needle 
through the cloth, making fine stitches of even length. It is not 
necessary to take the needle out often. Shove the cloth back, off 
the needle. Fasten the thread by taking two back stitches. 

Combination is made by taking two or three runs and a bacK 
stitch, and is used where greater strength is required than in 
the running stitch. 

Half-back is made by taking a stjtch about one-eighth of an 
inch long and placing the needle back one half the distance and 
bringing it out twice the length of the stitch. It has the appear- 



472 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

ance of running on the right side and of the back-stitching on 
the wrong side. It is stronger than the combination stitch. 

Back-stitching, sometimes called "machine stitching" or simply 
"stitching," made by taking a small stitch and placing the needle 
back to the beginning every time. It looks like machine work and 
is the strongest stitch, used where great strain is likely to come. 

Over-hand or Top Sewing or Top Dev^dng, a seam-stitch used 
where two selvages are to be joined. Sometimes the raw edges 
are folded back and over-sewed. This makes a strong seam and 
if well made is perfectly flat. It may be sewed on the right side 
or the wrong side and is used in sheets, pillow cases, patches, 
ruffles and gores, and the stitch is taken straight if sewed on the 
wrong side and slanting if sewed on the right side. This brings 
the thread parallel with the threads of the material. Use no knots 
in overhanding, but sew over the ends of the threads. 

Finishing Stitches. — ^After the practical stitches come the fin- 
ishing stitches, without whiph no seam can be neatly finished. 
They are : Over-cast, blanket, cat-stitch and feather-stitch. 

Over-casting used to keep the raw edges of a seam from rav- 
eling and is a variation of the Top sewing. It may be made from 
right to left or left to right, but it is easier to keep the threads 
even if made from left to right. Over-casting consists in taking 
slanting loose stitches over the raw edge of cloth. The depth 
depends upon the material, usually an eighth of an inch is enough. 
The stiches should be twice as far apart as they are deep, the slant 
being about 45 degrees. Do not use a knot but leave an end over 
which the first few stitches can be taken to fasten. 

Blanket-stitch, also called the Embroidery button-hole stitch, 
has many variations and is made from left to right. One variety 
is used in place of an overcast to protect raw edges of seams. 
More easily made pretty and even, than the overcast. 

Cat-stitch, also called herring-bone, is used on flannel seams 
and patches to hold down and protect an edge where it is turned 
only once. It is made from bottom to top, always taking the 
stitch, by pointing the needle toward the sewer and working out- 



DEPARTMENT 33 



473 




Even Feather Stitcb. 



ward, alternating from left to right of a given or imaginary 
line. 

Feather-stitch or Briar-stitch. — Begin the 
stitches at the top and always work toward the 
worker; there are many varieties, single, 
double, and triple, and are used in many places 
for decoration, but only as a finish on hems 
and seams in flannel. In the feather-stitch the 
needle may lie parallel with the thread or slant- 
ingly with it, for style and variety. 

SEAMS : A seam is a line of stitching that 
joins two pieces of cloth. There are several 
kinds, namely: plain, pressed, French, felled, 
lapped or hemmed, the slot-seam, and the flannel 
seams — ^plain and Dorothy. 

Plain seam is made by sewing two edges together and over- 
casting them. 

Pressed seam is a plain seam pressed open, having both edges 
protected by overcasting. 

French Seam. — A French seam is first sev/ed on the right side 
as near the raw edge as possible. Then trimmed evenly and 
turned on the wrong side and sewed again. Care must bje taken 
to cover the first seam. The French seam should not be over 
one-fourth of an inch wide when finished — less is better. This 
seam is used on waist seams, and skirts of thin material, but not 
on underwear. 

Felled Seam. — This is a flat-seam and is made by holding the 
piece farthest from the sewer one-eighth of an inch above the 
other, baste one-eighth inch below the iiarrow edge and stitch on 
the wide side. Fold the wide edge over the narrow and hem flat. 
This seam should be used on all underwear coming next to the 
body. Sometimes the edges are basted evenly and the one near 
the worker trimmed off one-eighth of an inch. It is best to begin 
at the wide end of any bias seam and work with the grain to pre- 
vent fraying. 

Lapped or hemmed seams are made by turning one fold on 
the right, the other on the wrong side and placing the folds over 



474 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 



each other, the edges being hemmed down flat. This makes a seam 
alike on both sides and is good when piecing the plain part of em- 
broidery and in any place where both sides are likely to show. 
If possible, make this a narrow seam — when used in flannel ; the 
edges should not be folded but Cat Stitched with fine thread on 
each side. 

Flannel seams. — The plain flannel seam is about one-fourth 
of an inch wide made on wrong side, is carefully pressed open and 
Cat Stitched with fine cotton thread on both sides. The right side 
of the seam is pretty with a row of briar stitches made with em- 
broidery silk. 

The Dorothy seam is made on the right side, pressed open and 
covered with a silk ribbon of the same color which is cat or briar 
stitched on both sides. The seam should not be over ^ inch wide 
when finished. 

The Over-hand or Top sewing or Top Dewing has already 
been described under the head of Overhand Sewing. 

HEMS, CURTAIN : A hem is made by folding the edge of the 

' goods twice. The first fold should be, if parallel with the warp, 

about one-eighth of an inch wide, if parallel with woof one-fourth 

of ain inch wide. Turn the first fold to a thread of the goods and 

be sure it is perfectly straight, for if the first fold is uneven the 

second is sure to 
be. The second turn 
should be measured 
with a card-board 
measure the desired 
width. The hem 
should always be 
folded towards the 
worker and held in 
the same way for 
the sewing. The 
stitches should be 

Correct Podtioii of Needle and Fingere in MaSing Hem Stitch. clantinp- and "small 

— only taking through the folds and two threads on the outside. 
There is no strain on a hem and deep stitches are unnecessary. 




DEPARTMENT 33 475 

Wiry cloth and bias edges necessitate basting the first fold also. 
Much of the beauty of the hem depends upon the fineness of the 
needle and thread. The thread should be as fine as the thread of 
the material. The needles should always be pointed at the same 
angle and toward the left thumb. 

Faced Hem. — Made when the garment is not long enough to 
fold up for the regular hem. A bias or a fitted facing should 
be^ used if the edge is circular as on the bottom of a gored 
skirt. The right side of the facing is basted to the right side of 
the garment sewed with one-fourth inch seam. Turn the seam, 
press the joining and baste close to the edge. Turn the raw edge 
of facing and proceed as in the ordinary hem. 

Extension hem is used where the entire width of the hem has 
to be added. Cut a piece of cloth, twice the width of the desired 
hem. Sew edge of facing to right side of the garment. Crease the 
other edge, fold back on itself and baste exactly upon the joining 
seam and hem or stitch. Used to lengthen skirts or in plackets. 

Rolled hem is used only on very fine goods, and is made by 
holding the wrong side of the material next to the worker. Roll 
a short distance at a time, ^ using the left thumb and fore- 
finger. Use fine thread, keep the hem narrow, round and fine. 

French hem, used on table linen and towels, and is sometimes 
■called the damask hem. It is made by folding an ordinary hem 
back on the right side and over handing with fine stitches. The 
stitches must run parallel with the threads of material so they will 
not show — open hem crease with thumb. 

Flannel Hems. — Flannel must be treated quite differently from 
cotton, owing to the felting properties of the wool. Flannel hem , 
is folded but once and the raw edge is cat-stitched firmly, with 
fine thread. A good plan is to decorate the outside of hem with 
some fancy stitch. Sometimes this hem is folded on the right 
side and decorated. Selvages should always be taken off if they 
come on edge of a hem as they will pucker in laundering. 

GATHERING : Cloth for gathering is usually cut in such a 
way that the gathering threads will run parallel with the woof 
threads and across the warp threads ; thus making the cloth lie in 
soft folds. Take a thread the length of the section to be gathered 



476 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 



and put in a row of running stitches, the size depending upon the 
material gathered, about one-fourth of an inch from the raw edge. 
Always use a rather coarse, single thread, and put in two rows 
about one-fourth of an inch apart. In each row the stitches must 
be the same in size and position. -Divide the band and the part to 
be gathered into halves, quarters and eighths if necessary, so that 
the gathers may be arranged evenly. Pin the right sides of the 
band and garment together and adjust the gathers, then baste very 
carefully with fine, even stitches, exactly on the upper row of 
gathering, holding the gathers next to worker. Sew with half- 
back stitches on the basting. Do not use coarse thread for basting 
as these stitches are not removed. 

Stroking. — Gathers in cotton goods should be stroked or laid. 
This is done by <ira-wing the gathering threads tight and winding 
them around a pin in the form of a figure eight. Hold the work 
between the thumb and fingers of left hand and with a coarse 
needle, put under the lower gathering thread, press each pleat 
under the thumb, continue across the gathers. 

BUTTONHOLES: Measure carefully and mark before cut- 
ting. They should be a trifle longer than the diameter of the but- 
ton for flat buttons, and one and one-fourth the diameter for a 
round button. When finished the butonholes should be one- 
fourth of an inch from the edge. Always use buttonhole scissors 
and cut to a thread. Mark the distance between the button- 
holes with a card-board marker. In working a buttonhole always 
begin at the end farthest from the edge — the lower right-hand 
corner. Work from right to left. All buttonholes should have a row 
of running stitches a little less than an eighth of an inch from the 

cut and extending 
around it. If the cloth 
ravels easily the but- 
tonhole should be over- 
cast with fine thread 
not more than three 

Various stitches as Applied to the Buttonhole. StltchcS On a Side and 

none at the end. The 
running stitches serve as a guide line and strengthen the button- 




DEPARTMENT 33 



477 




hole. Insert the needle at the right end, with the point towards 
the sewer and draw it through but half way. 
Take the two threads at the eye and bring 
them around the point from right to left. 
Draw the needle out pointing it from^ the 
sewer, with the thread at right angles to the 
buttonhole — thus forming a purl on the edge. 
After working one side, work several stitches 
in the end forming a semi-circle where the 
shank of the button rests. Work across the 
other side and finish with a bar, which is 
formed by taking the needle down through 
the first stitch made and sewing it across the 
end three times. On this bar, work four but- 
tonhole stitches and fasten the thread on the 
under side and run under a few stitches, then 
cut off. A buttonhole on shirts, shirt-waists 
or any place where there is no strain on the 
button may be cut vertically and barred at 
both ends. Sometimes a barring thread the 
length of the cut is used instead of the running stitches. On 
heavy cloth, tailors use a cord as this makes the edges heavier 
and firmer. It is important that the stitches be even and tight 
so that the edge will not be wavy. Sometimes in heavy cloth, it 
is best tQ mark for the buttonhole and stitch a row of machine 
stitching each side of the mark, this holds all the thicknesses 
firmly and they can not slip out of place when the cutting is done. 

DARNING: In the ordinary web darning every alternate 
thread is taken up by the needle, and these runnings, when made 
in a suffi'cient number, crossed at right angles by similar runnings, 
thus producing a plain web or network. By this method a hole 
in the material may be refilled. - The thread should not be drawn 
closely at any of the turnings, when running backwards, and for- 
wards, because it may shrink in the washing. 

The darn should be commenced and finished at all four sides 
at some distance from the beginning of the hole,- a little beyond 
the worn or thin portion requiring to be strengthened. The toes 



Showing Progress of 
Needle and Thread in 
Working the Buttonhole. 



478 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 




and heels of socks and stockings, if not of extra thickness, should 
be darned one way, but not across the grain, when new ; and the 
same with children's stockings. Don't use knots in darning. 

ORNAMENTAL STITCHES: Used for decoration. Are 
very effective on hems, seams, around the edges of underwear, 
and almost every where they help to add beauty to the garment. 

KNITTING. 

Knitting consists of 
loops, or stitches, as 
they are generally 
called, formed by means 
of a thread and two 
needles. 

In round knitting, 
four or five needles are 
necessary for the better 
handling of the work. 
Through the loops 
form'ed in knitting being connected together in unbroken con- 
tinuity, an elastic fabric is produced, suitable for making warm, 
closely-fitting wearing apparel. 

Materials. — Threads with slight twist are the best. The thick- 
ness of the needles, whether of steel, wood or bone, must be de- 
termined by the quality" of thread used. 

Position of the Hands in Knitting. — Lay the thread over the 
little finger of the right hand, and twist it round it, then carry it 
over the forefinger, which should be kept close to the work, the 
work being held between the third finger and the thumb. The 
left hand remains more or less inactive, having merely, by a 
slight movement of the forefinger to pass, the loops, in succession, 
on to the needle in the right hand, which forms the stitches. This 
position of the hands, is the one usually adopted. 

Casting On. — Casting or setting on, as it is sometimes called. 
is the formation of the first row of stitches which are to consti- 
tute the foundation of the work. 

Cross Casting On with a Single Thread. — Lay the thread 



Fonning the Stitches, 




DEPARTMENT 33 479 

over the fingers, as though beginning a chain of plain stitches, 
leaving a long end sufficient to make the number of stitches re- 
quired, lying within the palm of the hand. Put the needle in 
from below, into the loop on the thumb, and pass it from right to 
left under that part of 
the thread which lies be- 
tween the fore-finger and 
the thumb. Then bring 
the thread through the 
loop on the thumb, draw 
the thumb out, and lay 
the loop on the needle. 
In making the next 
stitches, lay the thread 
over the thumb, so that <^"''''« ^■ 

the end lies outside. Put in the needle under the front thread and 
complete the stitch as before. This method of casting on is 
generally done over two needles, one of them being drawn out 
before the knitting-off is begun, to insure a loose edge. 

Cross Casting On with a Triple Thread.— This method is sim- 
ilar to the last, only that three threads are taken and, drawn by 
the needle through the loop, which is formed at the bend of the 
thread, then pass the single thread over the left hand, and the 
triple one over the thumb, and make the same stitches as before. 
The triple thread makes a broad chain at the bottom of the loops. 

Knitting On Stitches. — Begin with a plain crossed stitch ; then 
take the thread and the needle in the left hand, a second needle in 
the right, and catch it into the stitch on the left needle, lay the 
thread under the right needle and draw it through in a loop, 
through the loop on the left needle. Then transfer it as a fresh 
stitch to the left needle ; catch the needle into this second stitch, 
and draw the thread through it, to form the third, and so on. 

This method is used for articles that are to have a double edge, 
because stitches made in this way are easier to pick up than the 
tighter ones, but it should not be used where it will form the 
actual edge, as the loops are always too open. 

Plain stitch is the first and easiest that a knitter has to learn. 
It is executed as follows : Put the right hand needle in, upwards 



480 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 






iw 



Plain Knitting. 



from below, under the 
front part of the first 
stitch on the left hand 
needle, lay the thread 
from right to left under 
the needle, draw it 
through the loop, and 
drop the loop off the left 
needle. 

Plain knitting is employed wherever a perfectly smooth, even 
surface is required. 

Back or Seam Stitch. — Lay the thread over the left needle, 
and put the right one, downwards from above, behind the thread, 
into the loop on the left needle, lay the thread upwards from 
below, over the right needle, draw it through the loop, and drop 
the loop off the left needle. This stitch is used in knitting pat- 
terns, and for marking horizontal lines in smooth surfaces, such 
as the seam of a stocking. 

Chain Stitch. — 'Chain stitches are used for strengthening and 
equalizing the edges of articles that are made in stripes. They 
can be made in two ways ; either knit off all the stitches on one 
needle, turn the work, put the needle into the first stitch, as 
if intending to knit it from tlie back, and take it off the left needle 
without knitting it, the thread to lie behind the needle ; or knit off 
all the stitches on one needle, turn the work, and knit off the 
first stitch. 

Double Knitting is knitting by a peculiar stitch, producing a 
double instead of a single web, which gives to the fabric a double 
thickness; used where extra strength is required. 




THE) MODERN 



f-'... ■•-.■.■.-•.. ■...^■- ..■..•..■■■■■■ -■■■^■•.- ■ , 





THE modern kitchen should be made as comfortable and convenient as 
any other part of the house, because now it is generally conceded that 
the health and comfort of the entire family depend largely upon the 
nature of the food and the manner in which it is prepared and served. 

MODERN KITCHEN. 

The chief essentials of a convenient and well kept kitchen : 
The kitchen should be large, light, airy and properly ventilated; 
it should be easy of access without passing through other rooms 
of the house ; it should be apart from the living rooms to prevent 
the noise of rattling dishes, and the odor of the cooking from be- 
ing carried through the house ; the pantry should be located in a 
convenient place ; plenty of fuel and water should be provided. 

The woodwork of the kitchen should be washed, and when 
necessary, scoured sufficiently often to keep it perfectly clean and 
sweet. A square of carpet of some suitable pattern should be 
placed on the floor and taken up and shaken frequently ; the walls 
and ceiling should be calcimined early in the spring of each year. 

The kitchen should be properly furnished with utcQsils and 
appliances necessary for the successful preparation of foods. 

Granite-ware cooking utensils have almost entirely supplanted 
those made of tin or iron. This ware is merely iron-ware coated 
with an enamel that resists fire and acid, resembling granite in 
color. Nickel and aluminum wares are also much in use, but of 
course much more expensive. 

481 



482 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 



The number, size and variety of the utensils must be regulated 
according to circumstances. The following list will serve as a 
guide for those who have occasion to furnish the kitchen of an or- 
dinary house or flat. It is not necessary, however, to purchase all 
the different articles included in the list, but only the ones best 
adapted for the special needs. 

MODERN KITCHEN EQUIPMENT. 




The' Modem Range. 



The modern kitchen should be supplied with all necessary ket- 
tles, baking pans and other cooking utensils suitable for prepar- 
ing the food. The following list has been carefully selected : 



1. 


Table and chairs 




8. 


Wash-basin 


2. 


Towel rack 




9. 


Dish-pan 


3. 


Receptacles for flour, sug- 


10. 


Slaw-cutter 




ar, salt, cereals, 


coffee, 


11. 


Potato-masher 




tea, spices, molasses. 


12. 


Bread-board 




vinegar 




13. 


Meat-board 


4. 


Coffee-mill 




14. 


Dust-pan 


5. 


Sink strainer 




15. 


Drainer 


6. 


Broom 




16. 


Refuse holder 


7. 


Scrubbing brush 




17. 


Rolling-pin 



DEPARTMENT 32 



483 



18. Clock 


56. 


19. Pastry-cutters 


57. 


30. Skewers 


58. 


31. Meat-saw 


59. 


33. Lemon squeezer 


60. 


33. Can-opener 


61. 


34. Apple corer 


63. 


35. Wooden spoon 


63. 


36. Cooking-fork 


64. 


37. Large iron spoon 


65. 


38. Egg-beater 


66. 


39. Bread-knife 


67. 


30. Case knives and forks 


68. 


31. Spoons 


69. 


33. Cooking knife 


70. 


33. Quick bread mixer 


71. 


34. Cabbage strainer 


73. 


35. Fruit and vegetable slicer 


73. 


36. Three-fold grater 


74. 


37. Vegetable knife 


75. 


38. Butcher's knife 


76. 


39. Wire forks 


77. 


40. Basting spoons 


78. 


41. Oyster knife 


79. 


43. Fruit-stoner 


80. 


43. Sink tidy 


81. 


44. Rush mats for table 


83. 


45. Chamois skins 


83. 


46. Toaster 


84. 


47. Wire-ring dishcloth 


85. 


48. Coffee-pot 


86. 


49. Tea-pot 


87. 


50. Dredgers-salt, pepper, flour 


88. 


51. Skimmer 


89. 


53. Gridiron 


90. 


53. Frying-pans 


91. 


54. Frying-basket 


93. 


55. Bread-box 


93. 



Cake-box 

Flour-scoop 

Sugar-scoop 

Waffle-iron 

Double broilers 

Double boilers 

Chopping bowl and knife 

Earthenware bowls 

Platters 

Plates 

Cups and Saucers 

Small scales 

Graduated cup 

Meat and fruit grinders 

Crocks 

Pint measure 

Rapid steamer 

Egg-poacher 

Pie-cup 

Gravy Strainers 

Pudding molds 

Dripping-pan 

Cake-pans 

Pudding dishes 

Sauce dishes 

Vegetable dishes 

Muffin pans and rings 

Gerh pans 

Broiler for meat 

Broiler for fish 

Potato or vegetable presser 

Ice cream freezer 

Ice-pick 

Wire ice-tongs 

Nickel teakettle 

Nickel chafing-dish 

Pie pans 

Iron kettle,porcelainHned 




MUCH of the money expended for food is practicaUy wasted through failure 
to select foods that are in season; but it is not always economy to wait 
.until the particular kind of food is the cheapest before buying. There 
are many articles of food that are brought from places where the season is 
earlier, and the use of these helps to break the monotony of the regular 
course of diet, especially during the fall and winter seasons, as in case of 
fruits, vegetables, berries and melons from the southern markets. The follow- 
ing table indicates the months when the various foods are in season: 

FOODS FOR EACH MONTH. 



January. 

Fish : Black bass, carp, cod, dace, eels, haddocks, halibut, her- 
rings, lampreys, mackerel, red snappers, salmon, salmon trout 
skate, shad and roe, smelts, soles, whitebait, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crawfish, lobsters, oysters, scallops, 
shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, guinea fowl, pigeons, pul- 
lets, squabs, turkeys. 

Game: Bear, brant, buffalo, grouse, opossum, partridges, 
pheasants, quails, rabbits, reed-birds, rice-birds, snipes, squirrels, 
wild ducks, wild geese, wild turkeys, woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beets, broccoli, cabbages, carrots, celery, chic- 

484 



DEPARTMENT 32 485 

ory, cresses, cucumbers (forced), egg-plant, endive, lettuces, 
mushrooms (cultivated), onions, oyster-plant, parsnips, potatoes, 
pumpkins, savoys, spinach, squashes (winter Hubbard), turnips. 
Fruits: Apples, bananas, dates, figs, grape-fruit, grapes 
(Malaga) lemons, oranges, pears, pineapples, pomegranates, 
prunes, raisins. 

February. 

Fish : ^ Same kinds that are seasonable in January. 

Shell-fish: Clams, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork veal. 

Poultry: Capons, chickens, ducklings, pigeons, pullets with 
eggs, turkeys, squabs. 

Vegetables: Beets, Brussel sprouts, cabbages, egg-plant, 
lettuce, mushrooms. 

Game: Golden plover, grouse, reed-bird, rice-bird, wild fowl, 
woodcock. 

Fruits: Apples, grape-fruit, lemons, oranges, pineapples. 

March. 

Fish: Black bass, carp, cod, haddocks, halibut, mackerel, 
perch, shad, smelts, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, young guinea fowl, geese, turkeys. 

Game: Grouse, partridges, prairie chickens, pheasants, quails, 
plover, teal, woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beets, cabbages, celery, kidney-beans, lettuce, 
parsnips, potatoes, sea-kale, spinach, turnips. 

Fruits: Apples, grape-fruit, lemons, oranges, 'pineapples, 
pomegranates, tangerines, 

April. 

Fish : Black bass, carp, haddocks, halibut, mackerel, salmon, 
shad, smelts, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 



486 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese,. pigeons, pullets, squabs. 

Game: Grouse, partridges, prairie chickens, quails, plovers, 
woodcock. 

Vegetables: Celery, lettjice, new beets, new carrots, onions, 
parsnips, radishes, rhubarb, spinach. 

Fruits: Apples, pears, strawberries. 

May. 

Fish: Black bass, carp, catfish, haddock, halibut, mackerel, 
red snapper. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats : Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducklings, guinea fowls, geese, pullets. 

Game: Wild pigeons. 

Vegetables: Asparagus, beans, cabbages, carrots, cauli- 
flower, cresses, cucumbers, lettuce, new potatoes, radishes, rhu- 
barb, tomatoes. 

Fruits: Apples, apricots, lemons, oranges, pears, straw- 
berries. 

June. 

Fish: Black bass, cat-fish, cod, halibut, perch, whitefish. 

Shell-fish : Clams, lobsters, scallops, schrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducklings, guinea fowls, pullets. 

Game: Doe-birds, venison (buck or male deer), wild pigeons. 

Vegetables: Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbages, cu- 
cumbers, lettuce, onions, parsnips, peas, potatoes, radishes 
spinach, tomatoes. 

Fruits : Apples, apricots, lemons, oranges, pears, raspberries, 
strawberries. 



DEPARTMENT 33 487 

July. 

Fish: Black bass, bluefish, cod, haddocks, halibut, mackerel, 
pike, smelts, whitebait, whitefish. 

Shell-fish : Clams, crabs, lobsters, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducklings, pigeons, pullets. 

Game: Doe-birds, venison (buck), wild pigeons. 

Vegetables: Asparagus, beans, cauliflower, celery, cresses, 
green corn, mushrooms, onions, peas, tomatoes, turnips. . 

Fruits: Apricots, blackberries, cherries, currants, gooseber- 
ries, grapes, melons, peaches, plums, raspberries, strawberries, 
tamarinds. 

August. 

Fish: Black bass, blackfish, bluefish, flounders, pike, salmon, 
sturgeon, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons. 

Game: Antelope, doe-birds, squirrels, venison (buck or male 
deer), woodcock. 

Vegetables: Asparagus, beans, cabbages, carrots, celery, 
cresses, green corn, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, peas, pieplant, 
potatoes, sweet potatoes, radishes, tomatoes, turnips. 

Fruits: Apples, blackberries, cranberries, currants, goose- 
berries, grapes, peaches, pears, pineapples, plums, raspberries. 

September. 

Fish: Black bass, catfish, pickerel, pike, salmon, sturgeon, 
turbot, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, pullets, turkeys. 

Game: Doe-birds, opossum, venison (buck), woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beans, beets, cabbages, carrots, celery^ cresses, 
cucumbers, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, parsnips, peas, potatoes, 
sweet potatoes, tomatoes, turnips. 



488 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

Fruits: Apples, blackberries, blueberries, cranberries, goose- 
berries, grapes, melons, nectarines, peaches, pears, pinapples, 
plums, raspberries, whortle-berries. 

October. 

Fish: Black bass, carp, cod, halibut, mackerel, red snappers, 
salmon, smelts, whitebait. 

Shell-fish : Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, pullets, turkeys. 

Game: Doe-birds, opossum, squirrels, venison (doe or female 
deer), woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beets, cabbages, carrots, cauliflower, celery, let- 
tuce, mushrooms, onions, peas, tomatoes, potatoes, turnips. 

Fruits: Apples, blackberries, cranberries, figs, grapes, paw- 
paws, pears, persimmons. 

November. 

Fish: Black bass, carp, catfish, cod, dace, mackerel, salmon, 
whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats : Beef, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, turkeys. 

Game: Doe-birds, opossum, snipes, squirrels, venison (doe or 
female deer), woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beets, cabbages, carrots, celery, mushrooms, 
onions, potatoes, spinach, sweet potatoes. 

Fruits: Apples, cranberries, grapes, pears. 

December. 

Fish: Same as for January. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons. 

Game: Same as for January. 

Vegetables: Same as for January. 

Fruits: Same as for January. 




THE recipes in the various departments of this work give the necessary 
information as |to what should be done in the kitchen in order to insure 
good cooking. But it is important also to know what should NOT be 
done in the kitchen, and the following list of "Don'ts," compiled by an 
experienced housekeeper, will serve as a guide. The "Don'ts," however, must 
not be misunderstood. It is intended that such food as gravies, sauces, fats 
and scraps left over should be carefully set away in a re&igerator or some 
other cool place protected from the air, to prevent the food from spoiling. 



1. Don't wash meats more than is absolutely necessary, espe- 
cially game and fowl, because it has a tendency to destroy the 
natural savor or sweetness. 

2. Don't throw out fat after frying or boiling pork or bacon 
but keep until there is a quart or more, then simmer over slow 
fire till the fat ceases to bubble. Turn off the clear fat from the 
sediment. The fat makes excellent shortening. 

3. Don't put cheese, muskmelons, onions or other pungent 
articles in the refrigerator as the odor will taint the milk, butter 
and other foods. 

4. Don't forget to have the oven, whether fire or gas, at 
proper heat before putting in meat or pastry. 

5. Don't have a hot oven for simple milk puddings or the 
milk will curdle. 

489 , . . 



490 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

6. Don't forget fresh meat should be put in boiling water ; 
salt meat into cold water. 

7. Don't forget good frying is boiling in fat instead of water, 
therefore the boiling fat fnust cover the food that is fried. 

8. Don't slam the oven door when baking cakes or pastry 
or the cold air will spoil or make them heavy. 

9. Don't forget in boiling meat that it must not be allowed 
to boil. In boiling vegetables do not let the boiling stop. 

10. Don't put salmon to boil with cold water, always have 
the water hot, because it retains the color of the fish. 

11. Don't guess the quantity of anything, always weigh or 
measure. Accuracy is important in the kitchen. 

13, Don't open the oven door while pastry is baking until it 
has been in at least seven minutes to set. 

13. Don't forget that a dirty oven is liable to spoil the flavor 
of anything cooked in it. 

14. Don't cover the heads of asparagus when boiling. Tie 
firmly, stand them upright, only place water up to the green part. 

15. Don't let soup boil, only simmer, the excellence of the 
soup depends largely upon this. 

16. Don't boil potatoes too quickly, or they will be soft out- 
side and hard inside. 

17. Don't butter cake tins; warm them and then rub with a 
piece of beeswax, which gives a nice glazed appearance to cakes. 

18. Don't make custard without scalding the milk, which 
should be poured hot on the eggs. 

19. Don't serve greens or onions until they have been boiled 
in two waters at least, 

30. Don't boil eggs; put into boiling water, cover with lid, 
remove from fire for five minutes. The eggs will be thoroughly 
cooked, light and digestible. 

21. Don't boil clear soup, let simmer; boiling clouds it. 

23. Don't boil milk, which loses virtue at boiling point ; scald 
by placing vessel containing milk into a pan of boiling water until 
it creams. 

23. Don't cook milk puddings quickly. 



DEPARTMENT 32 '491 

24. Don't fry anything unless the fat is boiling, because it 
makes the food heavy or sodden. 

25. Don't put sauce pans away "soiled" after using them, 
wash well with boiling water, and dry with a clean cloth. 

26. Don't leave the lid of the sauce pan on when boiling cab- 
bage, it spoils the color. 

27. D'on't allow articles of food or other things to accumu- 
late ; when cooking, clear up as you go. 

28. Don't wash omelet-pan after using; rub with a diist of 
hot dry salt and soft paper. 

29. Don't put vegetable, scrubbing or other brushes on backs, 
but always keep with the bristles down. 

30. Don't throw away sour milk, it will make sweet light 
bread, griddle-cakes, tea-cakes, and pastry. 

31. Don't waste cold vegetables; fritters, purees and salads 
can be excellently made from them. 

32. Don't grill a steak on dull, smoky fire ; a sufficient quan- 
tity of dry salt thrown on will clear it. 

33. Don't put pastry into slow oven; the fat will melt out 
and the pastry will be hard. 

34. Don't leave food to get cold in the vessel in which it has 
been cooked, unless of earthenware. 

35. Don't keep canned provisions in the cans after being 
opened ; the air renders them unwholesome. 

36. Don't throw away burnt frying-fat ; boil the fat, put in a 
raw carrot, the burnt taste will disappear. 

37. Don't buy in driblets ; purchase in bulk whenever possi- 
ble, especially staples, such as sugars, spices, coffees, teas and 
seasonings of various kinds.. A store-room built in one corner of 
the kitchen or near by, will be found valuable for keeping these 
and other household supplies. The things needed for the day 
should be weighed or measured in the morning for the cook, and 
the door should then be locked. Potatoes, turnips and other 
vegetables necessary for the winter should be kept in the base- 
ment or cellar, which should be of a temperature not cold enough 
to freeze the vegetables or warm enough to cause them to sprout. 




Sorting. — Silk and woolen fabrics, and colored cottons should 
be laid aside, and treated separately. Table, kitchen, bed and 
body linen should be steeped in cold water for about twelve 
hours. A pinch of' washing soda dissolved in boiling water may 
be added for any articles of clothing that are much soiled or 
stained, which should be steeped separately. 

Washing. — Before commencing to wash, dissolve the soap by 
cutting it finely, covering with water, and placing in jar in the 
oven, or near the fire. This makes soap-jelly — a quarter of a pound 
to one gallon of water. While the water is heating begin at the 
flannels, shaking and beating them well in the open air, to get 
rid of dust, and to raise the fiber of the wool. Wash in luke- 
warm water with soap-jelly. Do not, rub, as it thickens and hard- 
ens the fabric, but knead and press the articles, changing the 
water when necessary, then rinse twice to get rid of the soap. 
Wring, shake thoroughly, and dry out-doors, if weather will per- 
mit ; if not, before the fire, but not too close. Shake occasionally, 
and pull into shape. Stockings should be turned while washing. 

The table linen should be washed separate from the bed and 
body linen. Rub thoroughly in the steeping water. Wring out 
to get rid of as much dirty water as possible before beginning the 
washing proper. Next put the linen into the boiler, and let boil 
for'one-half hour, with a little melted soap in the water. While 
it is boiling, the next lot may be wrung out of the steeping water, 
and washed in the same way, to be ready for the boiler by the 
time the table linen is taken out. This should be done by means 

493 



DEPARTMENT 32- 493 

of a wooden stick. Lay the boiled linen in clean, cold water. 
Rinse, and wring. Shake out, and dip into blue water. Wring 
a second time, and hang out to dry, wrong side out. 

To Wash Without Boiling the Clothes. — Have the tub partly 
filled with water, warm but not hot. Take each article and soap 
all soiled parts, using naptha soap (this is essential) ; roll up the 
articles as they are soaped and pack them in the tub, which should 
contain just enough of the warm water to cover them. Let 
lie over night or for two or three hours. Then add more warm 
water ; rinse in tWo clear waters, and then in blue water. Starch 
the pieces that need to be starched and hang out to dry. 

Ironing. — Woolens require merely pressing with a moderate 
iron or mangling (passing between rollers) and then airing, after 
which the clothes may be neatly folded away. The practice of 
passing the washed linen through starch water tends to improve 
the looks of linens. Handkerchiefs must be ironed on both, sides 
until dry, then folded so as to show the name or monogram if 
any on the outside. Iron along the hems or selvedges, not from 
corners, bias ways. Towels and toilet covers need only careful 
folding and passing through a mangier, except in the matter of 
fringe. Table linen should be starched in thin starch, either hot 
or cold, and ironed carefully on the right side, to gloss the surface 
and bring out the pattern. Napkins, mats and doilies should be 
ironed on both sides, first the right side. Body linen, after being 
damped and folded, to be ironed, refolded and ironed on both 
folds. Bed linen damped, folded and mangled. Toilet covers and 
towels need mangling only. Collars and cuffs require cold-water 
starch, which may be made as follows : Pour, without stirring, 
half a pint of cold water over two ounces of starch in a bowl. Let 
stand, while, in a teacup of boiling water, dissolve a pinch of 
borax ; when cold add to the starch. Now pour in a tablespoonful 
each of glycerine and turpentine. Mix thoroughly with the hand. 
Dissolve the borax thoroughly, or it will leave patches on the 
surface of the' linen. Any articles of clothing required to be stiff 
must be perfectly dry before being starched. The old starch 
should also be thoroughly washed out. Take each collar sepa- 
rately, and rub well in the bowl, so as to work the starch into 



494 DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 

every fold of the linen. Lay the collars as evenly as possible 
in a clean, dry towel, and wring well. Do not use a wringer, 
as that will take away too much of the starch. If not ready 
to iron at once, lay aside in the towel. But must not get dry 
or will not be stiff enough. To iron, have a smooth steady 
table, not too high, because it is a distinct advantage to have 
one's weight over the table. The ironing blanket should be 
large enough to admit of being pinned at the corners. It 
should be thick, but not too soft, and should be covered with a 
clean sheet tightly stitched. The iron should be quite hot, and 
perfectly clean. An excellent plan is, to have a clean, damp, 
soapy cloth at hand, on which to rub the iron occasionally. Some 
valueless rag should also be provided to try the iron on, to avoid 
the risk of scorching. Lay the collar as evenly as may be on the 
sheet, and pass the iron lightly over it, first on the wrong, and then 
on the right side, till it is quite dry and stiff. Have a bit of clean, 
damp flannel at hand, to remove chance smuts or flecks, as well 
as to help in the next process, the glazing or polishing. To pro- 
duce this gloss, wring the flannel out of clean, cold water, and 
pass it smoothly over the right side of the linen. Take the polisher 
(glossing iron), which must be extra hot, and use quickly, lean- 
ing heavily, and rubbing back and forth on a small portion, till a 
brilliant surface is produced. Then put collars and cuffs into 
round box or basket, curving to the proper shape, and place be- 
fore the fire to air. This helps to stiffen the linen. 

With shirts, use cold water starch for the front, the collar and 
the cuffs, but must not touch the rest of the garment, which must 
be carefully held back out of the way. The fronts are the most 
troublesome. It simplifies matters to double them, when putting 
into the starch bowl. When ready to iron, the following order 
may be observed: Fold down the middle of the back, and use 
the iron on each side of the fold as far as possible. Do the same 
with the side seams, ironing round the tops of the sleeves. Then 
take the sleeves double, turning so as to get iron all over; turn 
cuffs and collar, and last of all, the front. This should be done 
from neck to waist, and from the middle to the sides; then, if 
creases occur, will not be in a conspicuous position. 



DEPARTMENT 33 495 

Laces. — The old-fashioned way of washing lace on a bottle, 
still meets with favor. The bottle is covered with clean, white 
flannel, and the lace tacked evenly around it. It is then filled with 
hot water, and placed in a basin of warm lather, where the lace is 
gently washed by hand. A more modern way of using the bottle, 
is to take a wide-necked one, and fill it three parts full of lukewarm 
rain-water, with enough soap-jelly dissolved in it to make a lather. 
In this the soiled lace is put. The bottle is corked or covered 
at the mouth with a cloth, and churned vigorously till the lace is 
clean, the result will be obtained more quickly if it has been 
steeped in cold water for several days. The lace may then be 
poured out of the bottk and well rinsed, to get rid of the soap. 
Even chiffon can be satisfactorily washed in this way. To stiffen 
lace pass it through cold water to which gum-water has been 
added. Half a tablespoonful to a pint will be enough for fine lace ; 
for chiffon, make it about eight times as strong. 

Gum-water is made by dissolving gum arable in boiling water 
— one ounce to one-half pint. Stir till thoroughly dissolved, then 
strain through muslin into a bottle and cork. Will keep for weeks. 
Thin starch, or a few lumps of sugar in water may also be used. 
The lace will need a good deal of care after being taken out of the 
stiffening medium. It should be pinned out, right side down, on a 
board covered with clean white flannel. Take out the pins when 
dry, and without displacing the lace, press it with a cool iron. The 
pinning-out process is very important. The article must be laid 
carefully in its original shape and every little point must be opened 
out. Chiffon, after being stiffened, should be rolled in a clean cloth 
to get rid of superfluous wet, and then iron with a moderately cool 
iron. A gheet of tissue paper, or a bit of old muslin, should always 
be at hand, to lay between the iron and such delicate fabrics as are 
under treatment. Otherwise, it is not easy to avoid "the track of 
the iron" — and this of course, would spoil the work. 



•r "IT 



w V 




THE practice of keeping a record of household expenses should commend 
itself to every housekeeper. It prevents waste and encourages thrift. It 
discovers and stops needless extravagance. It is a necessity to those o 
average means, and a safeguard to the wealthy, because it results in an 
adjustment of the expenditures in direct proportion to the income. 

EXPENSE ACCOUNT, 

The first step in economy is to provide the means whereby an 
accurate and regular account can be kept of all cash received and 
all cash paid, each item being charged to the proper account. 

Example : Form No. 1, on following page. 

Form No, 1 provides for the daily and weekly expenses — has 
a column for every day in the week, and as many lines for the 
various kinds of expense as would be required in the average 
household. The plan is simple, yet comprehensive and requires 
no special knowledge of bookkeeping. It is recommended that 
all entries be made for the day at one time, and this can be done 
at night or the following morning. It will be noted that in the 
column "Cash Received," the Cash on Hand and various amounts 
received during the week should be entered. In the "Cash Paid" 
column enter the total amount expended each day. The various 
kinds of expense are shown on the lines. Each day's expenses 
are kept in separate columns and the totals of these columns must 
agree with the amounts entered in the "Cash Paid" column. 

.^96 



DEPARTMENT 32 



AQf 



By following the example shown on Form No. 1, the matter 
■will be clearly understood. For instance : 

Starting the week with $5.00 there was added first $10.00 and 
then $15.00 received during the week, all entered in the "Cash Re- 



Form 


N" 


, 




DAILY HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES 

WEEK ENDING 




{Jk.cv<=^. 


f 


.130.2: 


Cssh 

R2caived 


C>9h 1 

p»id ] 


ACCOUNTS 


Sun. 


Mon. 


Tues 


Wed. 


Thur. 


Frl. 


Sat. 


Weekly 1 

Totals II 


J- 


«• 


( 


30 


Croceri«S 








sr 


/, 


•SO 


/. 


sa 


/. 


/o 




so 


.2 


oo 


7. 


cs 


. /o 


«o 


A 


OS 


Meats 








.^-f 




oo 




3s 




3o 




aa 


/. 


00 


Ji. 


to 


IS 


«« 


J 


*f 


Milk 








/o 




/J" 




£o 




/O 




lo 




30 




?-r 






3. 


'K> 


Fuel-rl-iOM 






































a. 


00 


Va-ter .. 






































1 


so 


Clolh.rxS 










1. 


■iio 


















1. 


io 






* 


OJ 


Service 










































Ken"^ 










































Lunches 








£0 




iO 




J.0 




JJ 




Jo 




30 


1 


■IS 










Taxes tf Ins. 










































F-urnilure 


































■ 








PortorjW1«*icmc 








oo 
























JO 










Am»j.n-.nf 




















IS 








30 




ss 










Church 


1. 


00 


























1 


00 










CS8.ri<y. 










































5unAay5cJ»ool 




JO 






















. 






.eo 










Incidentals 




/A 




-W 








tr 








JOJ 




a 




iL 


































1 













' 











































































, 






, 


.3o, 


oo 


li. 


rj 


Daily Totals 


1. 


30 


d 


or 


J! 


yi- 


.2. 


t" 


J 


CO 


/. 


■so 


± 


OS 


n. 


7S 




== 




— : 


















1 1 



















ceived" column. Expenditure on Sunday $1.30, which is entered 
on the first line, in the "Cash Paid" column. In the column 
headed "Sunday," the various items are shown — Church $1.00. 
Incidentals 10c, Sunday School 20c, which added together make 

$1 30 

Expenditure on Monday: $3.05, and in the column headed 
"Monday" it is distributed— Groceries 85c, Meats 25c, Milk 10c, 
Lunches 30c, Medicine 30c, Incidentals 35c, the total of which is 
$3.05 as shown in form 1. 

This same method is continued until the end of the week. 

It will be seen that the Totals for the days of the week agree 
exactly with the amounts shown in the "Cash Paid" column, 
and that the various kinds of expense are also recorded each day. 



498 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 



To close up the week, see that the lines are all added across, 
and the totals entered in the last column "Weekly Totals." 
When all have been added, this column is also added, showing a 
Total of $16.75 which agrees with the amounts of the week's ex- 
penditures as shown by the Totals of the various columns for each 
day. It agrees, likewise with the Total of the column "Cash 

WEEKLY/MONTHLYSUMMARYOF HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES 



rorn NS2 


















■MONTH 0F_ 


'LasA^\90.?: 


ACCOUNTS 


From 
To 


Weekend 


Week End 

hu^ If 


WeekEnd 


WeekEnd 


From ^1 
To SI 


Monthly 1 
Totals 1 


Grocenej 






7. 


17- 


& 


tt 


i 


f 


7. 


10 


«3. 


10 


M'. 


(.S 


Meafs 






i. 


to 


J.. 


30 


A 


So 


/. 


9' 




90 


10. 


00 


M i\ K 








9-^ 




IS- 




SO 




<?o 




iS 


J. 


SS 


Fu.lrLifShf 














J. 


to 


/. 


oa 






a- 


iO 


Water 






























ClofhmS ■ 






/. 


■Vo 






^. 


70 










7. 


lo 


Service 










1. 


SO 






/. 


00 




J. 


so 


1ltt\f 


















/r. 


00 




IS. 


00 


LvinQJies 






/. 


35- 


1. 


AS 


1. 


30 


/. 


HO 




10 


4. 


oa 


Ta.xe.-f I AS. 




























Turniture 










1. 


SO 












1. 


SO 


Doctoty .r^«»4»c/tve,. 








30 




xTO 












AS 


/. 


OS 


Am usenient 








SS 




SJ> 
















7S 


Church. 






/. 


00 




zs 




JO 




3S 




i-o 


a. 


3o 


Charity 












iS 












£J- 




SO 


SupdztY^cVool 








ao 




3.0 




io 




a.o 




O-O 


1. 


00 


Jr\ci<t€t\tals 








f-s" 




HO 












10 


/. 


MS 
















































































Ji. 


Is 










' Totals 






A 


■7S 


It 


SO 


11. 


fO 


i. 


ts 


Si 


iS 






■ L.. 


■ 

























Paid." Thus the work is proved and the record shows how much 
has been spent each day and for what purpose as is also shown 
for the, week. Now deduct $16.75 "Cash Paid" from $30.00, 
"Cash Received" and the balance is $13.35, representing the 
amount of Cash on Hand. This completes the Daily and Weekly 
Account for one week. Start a new sheet each week, bringing 
forward the amount of Cash on Hand and entering the same on 
the first line in the "Cash Received" column. 



DEPARTMENT 32 



499 



For the Monthly Record rule a few pages towards the end of 
the Account Book according to Form No. 2, as shown below: 
At the top of this form insert the name of the month. Then in- 
sert the day of the month at the end of each week, also in tthe 
various columns provided for the purpose. Then proceed to en- 
ter up from the Daily and Weekly Records, the amounts as shown 

MONTHLY/YEARLYSUMMARY OF HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES 



rorra NS.3 












FOR THE YEAR 


190 


.K 








ACCOUNTS 


Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


Apr 




May 


June 


YEARLY 
TOTAL 


Groceries 










3SL. 


iS 


















Meots 










/o. 


00 


















t^iLH 










3. 


SS 


















Fuel vl-'Sht 










J. 


to 


















Wtk-iar 






























Cloth; nil 










7. 


lO 


















Service 










■Z. 


s-0 


















Rent 










IS. 


00 










' 








iopches- 










a. 


oa 


















Taxe5<-in3 






























Furnitu re . 










/. 


So 


















pb<rtovs ■« Mtdi cin,«» 


■ 








/. 


as 


















Amusemervt 












7J- 


















Church 










.J.. 


2o 


















Charity 












JTf) 






. 












Sunday <S=-tiool 










1. 


09 


















Inci'deniBls 










' /. 


ts 






































































































































































































Monthly Totals 










. y? 


3.S- 


















h'" 































in the form and enter them on the proper lines. The totals of 
each week will agree with the Totals of the weekly record and the 
last column will show the monthly accounts, also the Total of 
same, as shown by the Example. When the month begins and 
ends "During" a week, simply insert the Totals for the Number 
of days required in each case. This will keep the Weekly Record 
intact, and will also complete the Monthly Record. 



500 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE COOK BOOK 



Of course the amount per day, week or month may be in- 
creased or decreased according to circumstances. 

For the Yearly Record, rule up one page in the Account Book 
as shown in Form No. 3 as follows : Rule for twelve months (one 
year). Then carry the Totals from the various Monthly Records, 
enter them on the proper lines and in the columns for the various 
months and when completed the Record shows the Expenses by 
Months as well as for the entire year. For lack of space the full 
year cannot be shown in the example. 

Regularity in keeping the Account Book is absolutely essen- 
tial because memory is not always to be depended upon. Check 
up all bills carefully and enter each item in the Account Book 
once a day. What at first may appear to be a little work will soon 
become a pleasure, and an interesting feature of the day's routine 
The result will be accurate facts and figures — not guesswork. 




GOLDEN RULES 



Select -wisely, 

Prepare and cook properly; 

Season, but not too much or too little; 

Serve cleanly and daintily. 

A time for everything and everything in 
time, and remember 

Good health depends largely upon what 
•we eat and how we eat. 




^«^#*^ 






y<^n/ 



/C&»n/ui^t^^at'^</M'tn'e^ 



/Ot^ 






INFORMAL LUNCHtON INVITATION. 









FORMAL DINNER INVITATION. 
501 



'^t/ 



lAMf/^Muan/b/i./fwn'^aennfi)^. 




ir(i^f4ukf/i/he,^Ma^MirK^ 


yC€>n^€i/n^/a^ 


, 


yCW 




W 


.■<i4>ll>c4>' 




Ji^/f ^laa€^A//i%yxA 



INFORMAL INVITATION FOR DINNER. 



t^ms/. /^i^«««««^ tS^S-^iflW^^WW^^WAf 









-^ "^.00^. 






J^/Ar& 



INFORMAL DINNER INVITATION FILLED OUT. 
60 






INFORMAL ACCEPTANCE. 








FORM OF ADDRESS. 
B03 






^cU? 



Wnny^r" 



SPECIAL DINNER INVITATION. 






CARD OF REGRETS (NOT CONSIDERED GOOD FORM). 
6U4 ' 



T^^TiGy 



ALPHABETICAL 
INDEX 




Page 
Accounts, household 

expense 496 

A la diable, sauce.. 138 
Allemande sauce ....123 

Almond sponge 197 

cream cake 260 

cookies 291 

jumbles 294 

milk i 347 

Almonds 396 

burnt 369 

salted 369 

Anchovy sauce 134 

Angel cake 269 

Angel's food 369 

Anniversaries. wed- 
ding 458 

Applique work 468 

Apple, baked 185 

baked, tapioca 189 

butter 315 

cake 373 

cake, Dutch 274 

charlotte 189 

custard or pudding 393 

dumpling 188 

fritters , 298 

jellied 311 

pies 282 

parings 313 

pudding 188, 392 

salad 149 

saUces 130 

soup 38 

Apple and strawberry- 
jelly 311 

Apples 393 

and rice 189 

jellied 211 

spiced and. pickled. 311 

Arrow root 350 

Artichokes 168 



Page 

Artistic cooking 329 

Asparagus 169 

cream of 34 

heads a la Duch- 

esse 336 

soup 24 

Aspic (meat jelly).. 125 
Bacon and egg balls. 342 

Bacon, boiled 92 

and tomatoes 325 

fried 92 

surprise 242 

Baking powder 346 

Balls, beef soup 36 

bacon and eggs ...343 

chicken 36 

codfish 44 

forcemeat 36 

marrow 34 

noodle 35 

pop corn 374 

potato 161 

Bananas and eggs ..335 

Bananas, baked 186 

surprise 339 

Barley water 345 

Bass or Bluefish 

boiled 47 

Batter, fritter 297 

Bavarian cream, choc- 
olate 2I5 

peach .315 

vanilla 314 

Beans 171 

Boston baked 173 

Lima 171 

string ...171 

string, French style 336 

Bean salad 146 

soup 31-23 

soup, ideal 381 

Bear and buffalo 117 

605 



Page 

Bearnaise sauce 133 

Bechamel sauce 122 

Beef, iiow to select 

and treat 71 

Beef a la mode 74 

balls 36 

braised 74 

broth 343 

broth, English 13 

cakes 80 

corned 78, 79 

creamed 80 

Filipino 81 

fillet of 77 

fillet of a la God- 

ard 330 

hash 78 

hash, corned beef.. 319 

kidney 79 

loaf 81 

pot roast, German. 75 

roast 72, 384 

roast, left over 323 

salad 148 

Scotch roll 75 

soup 382 

spiced 80 

stew 76 

stew, Pichelstein. . .319 

tea 343 

tenderloin steak. . . 73 

tongue, boiled 78 

baked 79 

vegetables s e rved 

with 154 

Beefsteak 72 

pie 76 

toast 77, 78 

Beef tongue, baked 

(au gratin) 79 

boiled 78 



60(3 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Page 

Beer, ginger, hop, 

spruce 361 

good root 360 

Beet greens 174 

Beets 173 

Beverages 
Household Drinks. 352 

Bird's nest salad. ...146 
pudding 196 

Biscuits, baking pow- 
der 250 

beaten 250 

bread and light 388 

cheese 251 

dessert 251 

excellent 389 

light 250 

quickly made 251 

raised ...; 250 

soda 250 

Bismarck's f a vorite 
breakfast dish 319 

Blackberry cake 259 

cordial 351 

pudding 192 

wine, home made. .358 

Black pudding 198 

Blanc mange 207 

banana 208 

calf's foot 343 

chocolate 207 

chocolate No. 3... 208 

Bloater fritters 56 

Blueberry or black- 
berry pudding ..... 192 

Bluefish or Bass, 

boiled 47 

or Shad, baked.... 46 

Bluepoints on the 
shell 64 

Boiled cabbage 166 

beef tongue. .... 78 

cauliflower 173 

cod 42 

dinner. New Eng- 
land 318 

eggs 233 

fish 39, 53 

fowl and rice 106 

ham 91 



Page 
Boiled 

leg of mutton 96 

lobster 58 

potatoes 156 

spareribs, salt 90 

whitefish, Macki- 
nac style 47 

whitefish, salt 53 

Boiling, general hints 

on 441 

Boston baked beans.. 17! 

brown bread 247 

sponge cake 267 

Bouillon 17 

chicken 14 

Brains 183 

forcemeat of 183 

lambs, a la Itali- 

enne . , 333 

stewed 183 

Braised beef 74 

calf's liver 86 

leg of mutton 94 

veal 83 

Brandied peaches. .. .316 

Brandy sauce 202 

Brazil nuts 376 

Bread 243-256 

and light biscuits. .388 

baking powder 246 

(best 388 

biscuits 250 

Boston brown .... 247 

corn 248 

corn. Southern 249 

corn, steamed 254 

gluten 248 

Graham 346-7 

oatmeal 248 

rye 248 

salt rising 244 

sauce 131 

whole wheat 247 

yeast 243 

Bread cake 271, 275 

Bread dough 243 

Bread sticks 856 

Bride's cake, young. .359 
Bride's Department. 381- 
393. 



Page 

Bride's salad 386 

Brook trout 49 

a la Meuniere 50 

Broth, beef 13, 343 

chicken 14 

eel 343 

mutton 13, 342 

Scotch 342 

Brown bread coffee. 349 

Brownie's food 273 

Brown stock gravy. .135 
Brussels sprouts .... 168 
Buckwheat griddle 

cakes 300 

Buffalo, bear and.... 117 
Buns, Spanish tea. .. .352 

hot cross 252 

Butter, drawn 123 

compounds 133 

sauces... 123, 134, 203 
Buttermilk, mulled.. 347 

Butterscotch 369 

Cabbage 166 

and mutton stewed 97 

au gratin 166 

cold slaw 337 

cooked in milk 166 

corned beef and... 79 

red 168 

salads 143-44 

sauerkraut 167 

stuffed 167 

Cabinet pudding 199 

Cake, almond cream. 260 

atigel 369 

angel No. 2 270 

angel's food 269 

apple 273 

apple, dried 273 

apple, Dutch 274 

blackberry 259 

bread 271 

bread, German 275 

brides, young 259 

brownie's food 273 

cheese 274 

chocolate 260 

chocolate layer 390 

Christmas 261 

coffee, German 274 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



5Q7 



Cake 

confection 377 

corn starch 277 

cream 271 

date 266 

devil's food 261 

extra fine 269 

Dutch peach 272 

Easter, wavy 374 

fig 390 

fig 365 

fruit 263. 264 

fruit, delicious 389 

fruit, economical. .264 
fruit. Mother 

Washington 264 

German coflfee . . . 274 

gingerbread 275 

ginger, soft 376 

golden 270 

griddle 389 

groom's 391 

hickory nut 372 

imperial 371 

jelly roll 277 

Lady Baltimore. . .268 

layer 257 

layer cake filling.. 258 
layer cake frosting. 258 

lunch 361 

marble 270 

molasses 376 

nut 273 

one-egg 268 

peach, Dutch 372 

pecan 272 

plum, rich 366 

potato 376 

pound 263 

raisin 365 

roly poly, orange. .377 

Santa Claus 363 

silver 370 

snowflake 270 

spice 263 

sponge 266 

Boston 267 

honey 367 

hot-water 268 

1775 267 



Page 
Cake 

Stoake's 268 

the groom's 391 

veal heart 83 

walnut 272 

watermelon 271 

water 367 

white 390 

white 267 

widow's wedding.. 260 
young bride's .....359 

zula 273 

Cakes, Fillings 258 

Cakes, spider corn. .254 
Calf's foot b 1 a n c 

mange 343 

Calf's foot soup 13 

Calf's head a la vin- 
aigrette 184 

Calf's liver, braised.. 86 

fried 86 

stewed 86 

Cambridge sauce 135 

Candied fruits 364 

Canapes 336 

Candy and candied 

fruits 364 

almonds, burnt ...369 
almonds, salted ... 369 

butterscotch 369 

candy, cream 373 

candy, cocoanut. 373-74 

candy coloring 366 

candy, Colorado 

cream 373 

candy, molasses ... 373 

candy molds 367 

candy, nut 373 

candy, potato ...... 371 

candy, sugar 374 

caramel 367 

caramel, almond. .367 
caramels, chocolate.368 
caramels, maple .-367-68 

caramels, opera 367 

coloring 366 

crackle, peanut. . . .374 
creams, California. 3 68 

creams,- French 368 

drops, cocoanut 373 



Paee 

Candy 

drops, lemon 372 

fondant 365 

fruit, glazed 375 

fudges 371 

marshmallows . . . .372 

marchpane 370 

molds for 367 

nougat 369 

nougat, soft 370 

peel, lemon or or- 
ange, candied 375 

pop corn balls, can- 
died 374 

pop corn balls, Co- 
ney Island 374 

pop corn,: crystal- 
lized 375 

sugar 374 

syrup 365 

taffy 372 

taffy, chocolate ...372 

Caper sauce 134 

Caramel 367 

Caramels, chocolate.368 

maple 367 

opera &67 

Caramel coffee 349 

Caramel sauce 203 

Cardinal sauce 125 

Carp, German 54 

Carrot coffee 349 

croquettes 335 

pudding 196 

Carrots, stewed 172 

Carving ...447 

Catarrh, remedy for. 456 

Catsup, cucumber. . .308 

cucumber No. 2... 309 

gooseberry 308 

grape 309 

plum 309 

tomato ,_^.308 

Cauliflower, baked. . . 173 

boiled 173 

cream of, soup 23 

fritters 173 

Celery, sauce 129 

cream of 130 

stewed 170 



508 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Pa«e 

Cereals 235-231 

Chafing Dish — Dainty 

Meals 376 

Champagne sauce 133 

Charlotte Russe 213 

Charlotte sponge pud- 
ding 197 

Chartreuse of vege- 
tables 181 

Cherry pudding 200 

Cheese biscuits 251 

cottage 324 

custard, baked 324 

golden buck 324 

on toast 327 

sandwich 335 

straws 256 

Yarmouth 56 

Welsh rabbit 333 

Cherries, spiced 312 

Cherry soup. ' 37 

Chestnut cream 317 

Chestnut sauce 138 

soup 24 

soup cream of, 23, 217 

Chestnuts 396 

Chicken, a la Mar- 
engo 333 

and macaroni 106 

and rice, Spanish 

style 334 

baked, with rice... 107 

balls 36 

boiled with rice 106 

bouillon 14 

broiled 103 

broiled a la Itali- 

enne 334 

broiled or roast... 385 

broth 14 

cream of 14 

croquettes 335 

curried 333-34 

curry 107 

forcemeat 37 

fricassee 105 

fried (spring) 103 

fried with sweet po- 
tatoes : ... 103 

gumbo soup 14 



Page 
Chicken 

jellied 344 

livers, fried 341 

panada 344 

paprika 104 

patties 183 

pie 106 

pie, the prize 341 

pot pie 107 

pot pie, Royal 104 

pressed 105 

roast 103 

royal pot pie 104 

salad 149 

scalloped 105 

smothered 103 

tirabales 55 

toast, hot 108 

Chili sauce 129 

Chili sauce 129,308 

delicious Opp. 331 

Chives sauce 136 

Chocolate 354 

cake 260 

cake, layer 390 

pudding 195 

Chocolate sauce 303 

Chops, lamb 96 

lamb a la Villeroi.333 

mutton 333 

mutton or lamb... 345 

Chop sooy 330 

Chow chow 304 

Clear stocks 9 

Club Sandwiches 326 

Chowder, clam ...... 63 

codfish, Rhode Is- 
land 58 

corn 18 

fish 57 

potato 17 

Christmas cake 261 

Chutney, tomato 307 

Chutney sauce 132 

Cider soup 37 

Clam chowder 63 

fritters 63-383 

soup 30, 31 

stew 63 

Clams a la Kluehe. . .377 



Pi«e 

Clams, deviled 62 

Rhode Island bis- 
que of 31 

roasted 63 

steamed 62 

Claret cup or fruit 

cup 359 

Claret soup 27 

Clarifying 441 

Cleaner, standard 

household 456 

wall-paper 457 

Cobler, peach 287 

sherry 362 

Cocoa 354 

Cocoanut candy 373 

cookies ..i 291 

pudding 300 

Cod, fresh, boiled 43 

with oysters 43 

fried, Indian style. 43 

Cod, salt, boiled 42 

with eggs 43 

Codfish, a la cardinal . 330 
Codfish dinner, 

shaker ■ 322 

Codfish balls 44 

cream 45 

puflfs 44 

Rhode Island chow- 
der 58 

royal 44 

Coffee 353 

cake, German 274 

carrot 349 

corn 349 

drip 353 

extract 353 

frappe 324 

grain 349 

iced 354 

ice cream 318 

No. 3 353 

sauce . , 204 

sherbet 323 

Colbert sauce 138 

Cold, remedy for 457 

Cold cream 456 

Cold meats recooked.377 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



509 



Page 

Cold slaw 144 

a la Creole 337 

Coloring, candy ....366 

Combination fruit 
juice 357 

Combination salad 
(asparagus and 

salmon) 144 

(celery and 
- shrimp) 387 

Combination soup ... 22 

Confection cake 277 

Consomme 11 

Cookery, French terms 
used in 453 

Cookies, almond 291 

cocoanut 291 

currant 291 

fudge 290 

ginger 289 

Hamlet 290 

holiday 295 

lemon 296 

molasses 290 

mother used to 

make 290 

oatmeal 291 

peanut 295 

sugar 289 

sugar, No. 2 290 

white 291 

Cordial, blackberry. ..351 

blackberry 359 

lemon 358 

Corn, green 174 

chowder 18 

coffee 349 

cream of 18 

dodgers 397 

hulled -229 

oysters 175 

soup 18,19 

stewed 175 

Corn bread 248,254 

cakes 354 

dodgers 297 

Corned beef 78 

and cabbage 79 

hash 78 

hash 319 



Cornmeal griddle 

cakes 300 

gruel 348 

mush 228 

Sally Lun of 254 

soup ". 27 

Cornstarch cake 277 

Cornstarch pudding .198 
Corpulency, remedy 

for 457 

Cottage cheese 324 

Courses, order of 434 

Crabapples 315 

Crabs, hard-shell 61 

soft-shell 61 

soft-shell, America. 340 

Cracked wheat 329 

Crackers, toasted for 

oysters 30 

Crackle, peanut 374 

Cranberry sauce ....131 

sherbet 392 

Crawfish, shrimps or, 

boiled 59 

Cream, Bravarian, 

chocolate 315 

Bavarian, peach ...215 
Bavarian, vanilla . .214 

chestnut 217 

Devonshire 212 

egg 216 

gooseberry 316 

nectar 356 

orange 216 

puflfs 279 

Roman 214 

Russian 213 

sauce, horseradish.. 134 

Spanish 213 

whipped 211 

whipped 393 

Cream cake 271 

Creamed beef 80 

fish 42 

grapes 187 

macaroni ,. . . . 231 

oysters 68 

oyster soup , . 30 

peas 378 

potatoes 157 



Page 
Creamed 

salmon 53 

shrimps 378 

Cream of asparagus. 34 

cauliflower 23 

celery 20 

celery sauce 130 

corn 18 

cucumber 22 

nuts 23 

onions 25 

shrimps 29 

Creams, French 368 

California 368 

Cream sauce 123 

Crochet work 462 

Croquettes 179 

carrot . 335 

chicken 179 

chicken. No. 3 180 

meat and rice :180 

parsnip 335 

Crullers 393 

Cucumbers 145 

stewed 173 

Cucumbers, cream of. 33 
Cucumber fritters. . .324 

sauce 136 

Cup, claret or fruit.. 359 

wine 363 

Cup cakes 294 

Currant cakes, little. 296 

water 346 

wine 359 

Curry, veal 84 

Curry sauce 139 

sauce 310 

Custard, apple 393 

baked 306 

baked cheese 334 

boiled 305 

orange 206 

pop corn 206 

sauce . . .^ .203 

tomato 206 

Cutlets, egg 336 

lobster , 184 

turkey IfOS 

veal, broiled 83 

veal, fried 84 



510 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Cuts of beef, pork, 

mutton opp. 448 

Date cake 266 

Debutante Fudge opp. 331 
Delicious Chili Sauce..331 

Demi-glaze 131 

Desserts 185 

Deviled clams 62 

eggs 241 

game 118 

tomatoes 162 

Devil's food 261 

extra fine 269 

Devonshire cream . . .213 

Diet for invalids 351 

Digestion, time for.. 6 
Dining room, the.... 3 
Dinner, table d'hote. 434 

French . .■ 153 

Domestic economy ..459 

Do hot eat 351 

Don'ts for the 

kitchen 489 

Dough 243 

Doughnuts 292 

Drawn butter sauce. 123 
Dressing for roast 

duck 109 

Dressing, cream 153 

sweetbreads 384 

Dressing, salad. .152, 153 

fruit salads 388 

tartar 153 

Drinks (see House- 
hold Drinks) 352 

Drops, cocoanut 372 

lemon 372 

Duchess pudding 196 

Duck, braised 110 

dressing for roast. .109 

mock 333 

prime roast.. Opp. 331 

roast 109 

stewed 110 

wild 114 

Dumpling, apple 188 

Dumplings, bread ... 34 

bread dough 33 

common 31 

custard 34 



Page 
Dumplings 

egg, for soup 382 

milk 32 

potato 33 

quick 32 

small 33 

sponge 33,33 

suet 33 

Dutch peach cake.... 272 
Easter cake, wavy... 374 

Easter punch 331 

Eclairs 279 

Economical steak . .319 
Economy, true and 

false 460 

Eel broth 343 

Eel, fried 50 

in jelly 51 

stewed 50 

with sauce picquante 51 
Egg balls and bacon . . 242 

cream 316 

Egg cutlets 236 

dumplings 382 

gruel 243, 348 

Eggnog 359 

Egg omelets 233-334 

Egg plant 176 

pudding 199 

salad 146 

sauce 135. 386 

soup 26 

Eggs 233, 442 

a la Russe 235 

baked 337 

baked in potato 

cases 237 

bananas and ' . . 325 

boiled 233 

curried 241 

cutlet 236 

deviled 241 

fancy 237 

fancy on toast 335 

fried 235 

ham and 342, 338 

hints on cooking. .439 
mushrooms and ...338 

mustard 241 

CyShannessy 378 



Page 

Eggs 

Panada 344 

pickled 336 

poached 335 

poached, tomato 

sauce 334 

scrambled ...234 

Spanish 838 

shirred 234 

snow 341 

stuffed 236 

Swiss 240 

Eggnog 359 

Egg plant ,..176 

Elderberry syrup 351 

Embroidery 464 

English muffins 252 

toasted 253 

beef broth 13 

English plum pud- 
ding 191 

English sauce, plain. 137 
English walnuts ....396 

Entrees 184 

Esquires 201 

Expense Accounts. 

household 496 

Fairy food 339 

gingerbread 275 

Farina 229 

pudding 193 

Farinaceous foods 

(see cereals) 225 

Fat, clarifying 441 

Fig cake .265, 390 

Fig pudding 191 

Filberts 396 

Fillet of beef 330 

Filling, layer cake 258 

Finnan haddie 46 

Fireless cookstove . ..450 

Fish 39,. 58 

baked 41 

bloater fritters 56 

bluefiesh or bass, 

boiled 47 

bluefish or shad, 

baked 46 

boiled 39 

boiled whitefish ..3«3 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



511 



Fish 

broiled 41 

broiled, of any kind.383 

brook trout 49 

brook trout, a la 

Meuniere 50 

carp, German 54 

cheese straws 56 

chowder 57, 58 

cod, fresh 42 

cod, fresh with 

oysters 43 

cod, fresh fried In- 
dian style 43 

cod, salt, boiled. ... 42 
cod, salt with eggs. 43 

' codfish balls 44 

, codfish cream 45 

) codfish puffs 44 

codfish chowder . . 58 

creamed 42 

, eel, fried 50 

eel, in jelly... 51 

eel, stewed 50 

eel, with sauce 

picquante 51 

Finnan haddie .... 46 

flounders 53 

fried 40 

haddock, baked ... 46 
haddock, boiled ... 45 

halibut 49 

herring 50 

lobster, boiled 58 

mackerel 48 

pie 56 

pike and pickerel. . 53 

planked, shad 47 

planked, whitefish.. 55 

pudding 58 

salad 388 

salmon, caper sauce 51 
salmon, creamed .. 52 

salmon cutlets 53 

salmon loaf ....... 53 

salmon timbales . . 183 
sardine eclairs .... 56 

sardines, broiled . . 53 
sauce. East Indian. 137 
sauce, Victoria . . . 138 1 



Page 

Fish 

scalloped 55 

shad, broiled 46 

shad, planked 47 

shad roe 47 

smelts, fried 50 

stewed ,. 40 

timbales 55 

vegetables served 

with 154 

Victoria sauce for. 138 
whitefish, baked ... 47 
whitefish, boiled . . 47 
whitefiesh, planked. 55 
whitefish, salt, 

boiled 53 

Yarmouth cheese 

straws 56 

Flannel cakes 399 

Flavoring, seasoning 

and 444 

Flaxseed lemonade . .350 

Floating island 206 

Flounder fillets . 53 

Flounders, boiled ... 53 

Flummery 208 

Foam of roses 214 

Fondant 365 

Food analysis 4 

Food for the Gods. .313 
Foods for each 

month 484 

Forcemeat balls 36 

patties 183 

Forcemeat, brains . . . 183 

chicken 37 

liver 37 

mushroom 37 

veal 36 

Fowl and rice, bpiled.106 

Frappe 234 

French dressing 153 

French terms 452 

Fried cakes (dough- 
nuts) 293 

Fritter batter 397 

Fritters 397 

apple 298 

bloater 56 

bread 398 



Page 
Fritters 

clam 383 

cauliflower 173 

cucumber 324 

yeast batter for 397 

Frogs' legs 333 

Frosting, boiled 359 

ideal 259 

layer cake 358 

Fruit cake 263 

delicious 389 

economical 364 

Mother Washing- 
ton 264 

Fruit, glazed ...!... 375 

Fruit jellies 314 

juice combination- .357 

Fruit lemonade 356 

Fruit pies 381 

pudding 193 

sherbet 224 

Fruits, melons, and 

nuts i...393 

Fruit sauce 301 

Frying, hints on 441 

Fudges.... Opp. 331, 371 
Game (see names of 
different kinds in 
Index) 

deviled 118 

how to serve ....... 113 

pie 117 

Vegetables served 

with 154 

Garnishings, soup ... 31 

Gems, corn 354 

Graham 353, 54 

Gherkins, pickled ...305 

Giblet sauce 101 

soup 14 

Gingerbread ■. . . 275 

fairy 275 

French 339 

Ginger cake, soft. ...376 

Ginger cookies 289 

Ginger snaps 289 

Glaze, meat 121 

Golden buck 324 

cake 270 

Golden Rules 500 



512 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Page 

Golden thoughts 456 

Goose, roast ^. . 108 

or duck stuffing. ..109 
I vegetables served 

' with 154 

Gooseberry cream . . .316 

Goulash 76,87 

Graham bread 246 

breakfast cakes . . . 255 

pudding 194 

gems 353,254 

Grapes, creamed ....187 

Grapefruit 395 

dessert 188 

Gravies, sauces and.. 119 
Gravy, brown stock.. 125 
Green corn pudding. .201 

Greens 155 

Griddle cakes ..298-389 

bread 299 

buckwheat 300 

cornmeal 300 

fruit 299 

Graham 299 

rye .., 389 

wheat 298 

wheat No. 3 299 

Groom's cake 391 

Grouse 115 

Gruel, cornmeal .... 348 

Egg 348 

oatmeal 348 

rice 348 

Gumbo (ochra) soup 15 

Gum water 495 

Haddock, baked .... 46 

boiled 45 

Halibut 49 

Ham and eggs 342 

a r aurora 838 

Ham, baked 91 

boiled 91 

Hamburg steak .... 73 
Hard sauce, for pud- 

dings 205 

Hare, jugged 116 

pie, cold 116 

Harvest drink 360 

Hash, corned beef. ..319 
Hasty pudding 228 



Page 

Heat economy 461 

Herb tea 351 

Hermits (cookies) ..393 
Herring, marinated. . . 50 
Hickory nut cake.... 273 

Hickory nuts 376 

Holiday cookies .... 295 
Hollandaise saucg, . . . 123 
Home made ice 

cream soda 356 

Hominy 229 

baked 230 

croquettes 330 

Horseradish sauce . . .134 

sauce; iced 135 

butter 139 

Hot cross buns 253 

Household drinks ..352 

beer, ginger 361 

beer, hop 361 

beer, i-oot 360 

beer, spruce 361 

blackberry cordial.. 359 
blackberry wine ..358 

.chocolate 354 

claret cup or fruit 

cup 359 

cobbler 363 

cocoa 354 

coffee t....353 

coffee. No. 2 353 

coffee, drip 353 

coffee extract 353 

coffee, iced 354 

cordial, blackberry. 359 
cordial, blackberry 351 

cordial, lemon 358 

eggnog 359 

flip, sherry 361 

grape juice 354 

harvest drink 360 

juice, combination 

fruit 357 

grape 354 

raspberry 355 

lemonade 356 

lemonade, fruit ...356 

nectar, cream 356 

orangeade 357 

orangeade, No. 3.. 3 57 



Page 
Household Drinks 
punch, cardinal ...36i! 

punch, fruit 362 

punch, hot 363 

punch, milk 362 

punch. New -Year's 363 

punch, quick 363 

punch, Roman 363 

raspberry juice . . . .353 
raspberry shrub ...355 
raspberry vinegar .35!) 

root beer 360 

sherbet, cranberry..358 

sherbet, milk 224 

sherbet, peach 358 

sherbet, pineapple. .357 

soda, lemon 355 

soda home made ice 

cream 356 

standard cranberry 

sherbet 393 

syrup, lemon . , 357 

syrup, strawberry.. 357 

tea 354 

vinegar, raspberry. 355 

wine, berry 360 

wine, blackberry ..358 

wjne, currant 359 

wine, dandelion ...360 

wine, raisin 360 

wine cup 363 

How to buy 430 

Hungarian beef stew 

(goulash) 76 

veal stew (goulash) 87 

Hulled corn 239 

Ice, lemon 223 

melon 221 

nesselrode 391 

orange 221 

peach 321 

tapioca 190 

Ice cream 217 

banana 218 

bird's nest 219 

caramel 319 

chaudfroid 219 

chocolate 2in 

coffee 218 

freezer 317 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



513 



Page 

Ice Cream 

fruit 218 

Neapolitan 220 

nesselrode 220 

sundaes 216 

tutti f rutti .... 220 

Iced coffee 3a4 

tea 354 

Icing, chocolate 259 

royal 259 

Iceland moss 348 

Iceland pudding 193 

Imperial cake 271 

Indian pudding .194,195 

Invalids, diet for 351 

don'ts for 351 

Insomnia, remedy for.457 
Invitations, accept- 
ances and regrets.. 501 

Ironing 485 

Irish moss 348 

Irish stew ■. 97 

Italian sauce 123 

Jam, India 314 

Jams 314 

Japanese tower 215 

Jellied chicken 344 

Jellies, fruit 314 

Jelly, apple and straw- 
aspic 125 

berry 211 

lemon 209 

mint 128 

mixed fruit 210 

nut wine 210 

orange 209 

pineapple 209 

strawberry 811 

tomato 336 

wine 209 

wine. No. 2 210 

Jelly roll 277 

Jelly sauce 129 

water 346 

Johnny cake 255 

Jollv boys (fried 

cakes) 296 

Jot down recipes to 
be kept 522 



Pago 

Jumbles 293,294 

almond 294 

Kasseler ribs 89 

Kidney 320 

au madere 379 

Kidneys, veal, broiled 85 

stewed 79-85 

Kisses, meringues ...288 
Kisses, meringue . . . .392 

Kitchen, the 2 

Kitchen, the modern. 481 

equipment 482 

Kitchen, don'ts for 

the 489 

Knittting 478 

Kohlrabi 169 

Koumiss 346 

Lady Anne's Spanish. 

Stew Opp. 331 

Lady Baltimore cake 268 

Lady fingers 294 

Lamb and oysters. . .320 
Lamb, breast of, and 

chops 96 

chops, a la Villeroi 332 

green peas 96 

roast 95 

stew 98 

sweetbreads sautes 184 
Lamb's brains a 1' 

Italienne 333 

Larding 443 

Laundry, the 492 

Layer cake 257,287 

Left-over roast beef. 323 

Lemon cakes 296 

cordial 358 

drops 372 

ice 222 

jelly 209 

pie 391 

sauce 133 

sauce for pudding. .203 

soda ...355 

syrup 357 

toast 801 

Lemons 394 

Lemonade 356 

Lettuce and tomato 
salad 142 



Page 

Liver, calf's 86 

Liniment, a good.... 457 
Lobster, Newburg... 60 

Newburg 379 

boiled 58, 60 

broiled 59 

butter 139 

curry 60 

cutlets 184 

patties 60 

salad 147 

sauce 139 

soup 29 

Lunch cake 261 

Macaroni and bacon. 231 

au gratin 231 

consomme with ... 12 

creamed 23 1 

Genoese style .... 830 

left-over 231 

Macaroons 295 

Macedoine 181 

Mackerel, Spanish . . 48 

salt 48 

salt, fried 48 

Maitre d' hotel butter 139 

sauce 136 

Marble cake 270 

Marchpane 370 

Marketing 436 

Marmalade, almond .317 

apple 317 

orange 316-17 

Marshmallows 372 

Maxims and quota- 
tions 435 

Mayonnaise 152-153 

Meastires ' 7 

Meat glaze 131 

Meats 71 

cold recooked 378 

Meats, vegetables 

served with 154 

Melon ice 221 

Melons 395 

Menus. 

January 397 

February 400 

March 402 

April 405 



514 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Page 
Menus 

May 408 

June 410 

July 413 

August 415 

September 417 

October 419 

November 421 

December 423 

For special occasions 425 
Wedding breakfast. 428 
Wedding dinner . .438 
Thanksgiving din- 
ner 429 

Christmas dinner. .430 
Easter dinner ....430 
St. Valentine's 

dinner 431 

Washington's birth- 
day 431 

Pres. Roosevelt 

dinner 432 

Prince Henry of 

Prussia 433 

Meat pie, Roman. . . .331 

Meringue kisses 392 

Meringues 288 

Merry widow salad.. 141 

Milk, baked 346 

Milk punch 363 

Milk sherbet 324 

Milk soup 26 

Mince meat 283 

Mince pie 286 

Mint jelly 128 

sauce 128. 385 

Molds for candy 367 

Minute pudding 199 

Miscellaneous dishes 

318, 327 

Mixed fruit jelly. ...210 

Mock duck 323 

Mock turtle 323 

Mock turtle soup 15 

Modern kitchen 481 

Molasses cake 276 

Molasses candy 373 

Moonshine 208 

Mosquitos, sure pre- 
vention against ...457 



Fa£e 
Mountain dew pud- 
ding 199 

Mousse 333 

maple 223 

Muffins 252 

buttermilk 252 

corn 252 

English 252 

fried rye 253 

raised 252 

toasted 253 

white 253 

Mullagatawny Soup. . 16 

Mush, cornmeal 238 

oatmeal 228 

Mushroom sauce 127, 128 

Mushrooms 177 

ind eggs 338 

broiled 178 

deviled 178 

soup 25 

Mustard, French ....127 

made 386 

pickles, Martha's . .304 

prepared 126 

sauces 127, 137 

spiced 137 

Mutton and lamb. . . 93 
Mutton and cabbage 

broth 13 

chops a la soubise.332 

chops, broiled 95 

chops, broiled 345 

chops, green peas. 95 
chops, Italian .... 95 

chops, stewed 345 

leg of, braised 94 

leg of, boijed 96 

roast 94 

roast, crown 331 

scrambled 98 

stewed 97 

stew, brown 96 

venison .• 98 

Nasturtiums, pickled. 309 

Navy sauce 129 

Neapolitaines 279 

Nectar, cream 356 



Page 
Nesselrode ice pud- 
ding 220 

pudding 391 

New England boiled 

dinner 318 

Indian pudding . . . 194 

Noodle balls 35 

soup 20 

Noodles 35 

baked 230 

Normandy sauce ...124 

Nougat 369 

soft 370 

Nut cake 272 

pudding 193 

Nuts 396 

cream of 23 

Oatmeal mush 328 

scones 301 

Ochra soup 15 

Old Zealand sauce. ..124 

Olive sauce 129 

Omelet 237 

ham, individual ...339 

herb 238 

oyster 238 

Portuguese 238 

rum omelet 239 

souffle 239 

Omelets, eggs and... 233 

One egg cake 268 

Onion sauce 132 

No. 2 133 

soup 24 

Onions 164 

baked, Spanish ...164 

cream of 25 

soup 24 

stuffed .165 

Onions, a great puri- 
fier 457 

Opossum 117 

Orangeade 357 

Orange cream 216 

ice 221 

jelly 309 

pudding "...200 

sherbet 324 

Oranges 394 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



515 



Page 

Order of courses — 
table d'hote dinner. 434 

Oxtail soup 13 

stewed 79 

Oyster and bacon 

rolls 69 

cocktail 65 

creamed 30 

fricassee 67 

fritters 68 

. patties 68 

pie 68 

sauce 133 

soup 29, 30 

soup, for two 382 

stew, plain 66 

stew, chafing dish 

style 379 

stew, dry 66 

stew, milk 66 

Oysters, baked on 

half-shell 65 

bluepoints on the 

shell 64 

broiled 65 

creamed 383 

creamed on toast. . 68 

curried 69 

en Brochette 64 

fricasseed 377 

fried 65 

fried, a la White 

House 69 

lamb and 320 

on block of ice.... 64 

on toast 67 

palace style 64 

pickled 67 

roasted in the shell 66 

scalloped 66 

scalloped 383 

steamed 340 

stewed 383 

White House, a la 69 

Oyster plant (salsi- 
fy) "169 

-Panada 37 

'chicken 344 

» egg 344 

Pancake. French ...240 



Page 
Pancake 

green pea 240 

potato 300 

potato, German ...301 
Paprika kedgeree ... 63 

Parfait 223 

Parsley sauce 134 

Parsley tea 350 

Parsnip croquettes . .335 

Parsnips 175 

Partridge 113 

Pastry, pies, tarts... 278 

Patties, chicken 183 

forcemeat 183 

lobster 60 

oyster 68 

Peach cake, Dutch... 272 

Peach cobler 287 

ice 221 

pudding 193 

slierbet 358 

sponge 198 

surprise 221 

velvet 209 

Peach butter 315 

Peaches 393 

and cream 186 

brandied 316 

Peach sponge pud- 
ding 198 

Peanuts 396 

Pears 394 

ginger 311 

old maid's baked.. 187 

pickled 313 

stewed 186 

Peas, canned 171 

to can 312 

creamed 378 

dried, yellow 171 

green 170 

green, a la Fran- 

caise 170 

Pea soups 20 

split 21 

Pecan cake 272 

Peel, candied lemon 

or orange 375 

Pests, household to 
exterminate 457 



Page 
Philadelphia scrapple 93 

squab 110 

Picalilli 309 

Pickelstein beef stew 319 
Pickerel, pike and... 53 
Pickle, beets and cab- 
bage 305 

blackberry 310 

French 310 

tomato, sweet 306 

tomato, ripe 307 

Pickled apples 311 

gherkins 305 

nasturtiums 309 

pork chops 89 

string beans 313 

Pickles, cucumber . .303 
cucumber. No. 2... 303 
cucumber, ripe ...303 
Martha's mustard 304 

mustard. No. 2 305 

salt 303 

Picnics, quantities 

adapted to 427 

Pie, apple 282 

apple cream 282 

butter cream 285 

chicken 107 

chocolate 286 

cocoanut 285 

cream 286 

crusts 280 

curd 285 

custard 283 

custard. No. 2 384 

date 284 

fluff 386 

fruit 281 

lemon 381 

lemon 391 

Marlboro, a la 382 

mince 283 

onion 385 

orange 282 

oyster 68 

oyster, steak and. .331 

pineapple 282 

potato cream 284 

potpie, chicken 104, 107 
prune 283 



516 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Pago 
Pie 

pumpkin 284 

rhubarb 286 

Roman meat 331 

shoo-fly 286 

sweet potato 285 

Pie crust 280 

Pigeon, pie Ill 

polish style Ill 

roast 110 

squab 110 

stew, American 

style Ill 

Pigs' feet, broiled. . . 93 

fried 93 

stuffed 93 

Pike and pickerel.... S3 
Pineapple frappe ...224 

jelly 209 

sorbet 223, 357 

souffle 220 

water 345 

Pineapples 394 

Piquante, Sauce 123 

Plain sauce 202 

Planked shad 47 

whitefish 55 

Plum cake, rich 266 

Plum pudding, Eng- , 

lish 191 

French 341 

sauce 204 

Plums 394 

Polenta 228 

Poorman's pudding.. 200 
Popcorn Balls, can- 
died 374 

crystallized 375 

Pop-overs 296 

Pork 87 

Pork, leg of, roast.. 88 

broiled 90 

roast 87 

roast suckling pig. 88 

salt ....90, 91 

sausage, broiled . . 93 

sausage fried, 92 

spareribs 89,90 

tenderloin, baked . . 90 



Pace 

Pork chops 88 

vegetables served 

with 154 

and beans 173 

broiled 88 

pickled 89 

southern style .... 89 

Porridge, milk 347 

Potato, balls, baked. .161 

cake 876 

cakes .161 

chips, Saratoga . . . 159 

chowder 17 

cream pie 284 

croquettes 159 

pancakes 300, 301 

puffs 159 

salad 143 

dressing. .. 0pp. 331 

scones 301 

soufle 161 

soup, royal 329 

Potatoes, a la 

O'Brien 161 

au gratin 157 

baked 156 

baked with meat... 156 

boiled 156 

creamed 157 

curled 158 

Duchess 157 

fried 156 

fried, French. 156 

ham 158 

herring 158 

Lyonnaise 157 

mashed 156 

Paris 159 

Princess 158 

stewed 157 

stuffed 160 

Saratoga chips ...159 

scalloped 160 

sweet 161 

warmed over 160 

Pot pie 320 

Pot pie, chicken 107 

royal chicken 104 

Pot roast, German... 75 
Potted meat 318 



Pace 

Poultry 99 

cleaning and dress- 
ing 439 

Pound cake 263 

Prairie chicken .115 

Preserves 302 

pumpkin or melon. 310 

quince 314 

raspberries 315 

strawberries 314 

tomato 307 

Preserving small 

fruits 313 

Prize chicken pie, 

the 341 

Prune pudding 199 

puff 187 

soup 28 

Prunes, stewed 186 

Pudding, apple 393 

smothered 188 

bird's nest 196 

black 198 

blueberry or black- 
berry 193 

cabinet 199 

carrot '....196 

chocolate sponge . . 197 , 

cherry 200 

chocolate 195 

No. 3 196 

cocoanut 200 

corn starch 198 

Duchess 196 

egg 199 

English plum 191 

farina 193 

fig 191 

fish 58 

French plum 341 

fruit 193 

graham 194 

green corn 201 

hasty 228 

Iceland 193 

Indian, baked .... 195 
Indian, New Eng- 
land 194 

Indian, steamed. .194-5 
Minute 199 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



517 



Page 
Pudding 

Mountain dew 199 

nesselrode ice 220 

nesselrode 391 

nut 193 

orange 200 

peach, widows' ...193 
plum, English .... 191 

poor man's 200 

prune .....199 

puff 198 

red 208 

rhubarb 200 

rice, baked ..190, 391 

rice, souffle 190 

rice, without eggs. 191 

snow 198 

sponge 197 

sponge, almond . . . 197 
sponge, chocolate . . 197 

sponge, peach 198 

strawberry 192 

suet 194 

tapioca 190 

The Trilby 188 

widow's peach ....193 
Yorkshire 190 

Puddings, queen of. .193 
Pudding sauces. 185, 204 
sauce for plum pud- 
ding 204, 392 

Puff pudding ..198 

Puffs, breakfast ....355 
corn muffin .......253 

transparent 396 

Punch, easier 321 

Cream 279 

Puree of spinach 25 

Punches 362, 363 

Quail 115 

Quail on toast 385 

Quantities, picnics or 

receptions 437 

Queen of puddings. . .193 

Quenelles 180 

Quick sauce, for pud- 
ding 203 

Quinces, preserved ..314 



Page 

Quotations, maxims 

and 435 

Rabbit, fried 115 

roast 116 

Raccoons and wood- 
chucks 117 

Raisin cake 265 

Raspberry juice 355 

shrub 355 

preserves 315 

vinegar 355 

Receptions, quantities 

adapted to 427 

Reed-bird pie 118 

Red pudding 208 

Rhubarb pudding ...300 

sauce 130 

sherbet 223 

Rheumatism, excellent 

for 457 

Ribs, Kasseller 89 

Rice, a la Nagasaki. 236 
and fowl, broiled.. 106 

and ham 336 

and ham croquettes.227 

boiled 325 

Hungarian 326 

Italian style 237 

meat and, cro- 
quettes 180 

omelet 227 

Piedmontese style.. 226 
pudding, baked . . . 190 
pudding soufHe ...190 
pudding without 

eggs 191 

puffs 337 

Queen's style 226 

snowballs 307 

soup 19 

water 346 

Risotto 337 

Rissoles 181 

Roast beef 72 

chicken 103 

duck, prime. .0pp. 331 

for two 384 

turkey 99 

Robert sauce 131 



Page 

Rolls, breakfast 349 

French 389 

Parker House 249 

Vienna 249 

Roly poly cake 377 

Roman meat pie. ...331 

Roman cream 214 

Root Beer 360 

Rusks 255 

Russian cream 213 

Rutabagas 176 

Salad, apple 149 

apple and nut .... 150 

bean 146 

bird's nest 146 

boiled beef 148 

bride's 386 

cabbage 143 

cabbage, cold slaw 144 

carrot 146 

chatelaine 150 

chicken 387 

chicken 149 

combination 144 

combination 386 

combination celery 

and cream 145 

combination celery 

and shrimps 387 

cucumber 145 

egg 146 

fish 388 

fruit 151 

grapefruit 150 

herring 148 

imperial fruit 387 

Italian 148 

Lady Washington .144 
lettuce and tomato 142 
lettuce, creamed . . 143 

lobster 147 

medley 150 

merry widow 141 

merry^widow, 2. . . .142 

mixed, fruit 151 

nut and fruit salad 150 

orange 150, 151 

pineapple 151 

potato 143 

salmon 147 



518 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Page 

Salad 

scrambled egg .... 147 

spinach 143 

tomato and 

chicken 337 

tongue 149 

Waldorf 387 

Salad Dressings ....152 

cream 153 

Extra Potato, 0pp. 331 

French ,..153 

imperial, fruit 388 

Mayonnaise 153 

boiled 153 

tartar 153 

Salads and dressings. 141 

Sally Lunn 354 

of corn meal 254 

Salmon, caper sauce. 51 

creamed 52 

cutlets 53 

loaf 53, 332 

timbales 183 

turbit 330 

Salpicon 180 

Salsify (oyster plant). 169 
Salt fish, sauce for.. 138 
Sandwich, American 

club .....326 

Colonial club 326 

Sandwiches 335 

Santa Claus cake. . . .262 

Sardine eclairs 56 

Sardines, broiled .... 53 
Sauce, a la diable...l38 

allemande 122 

anchovy 134 

apple 130 

aspic (meat jelly) 125 

bearnaise 133 

bechamel 122 

brandy, for pud- 
ding 203-4 

bread 131 

brown stock gravy. 125 
butter, brown .... 134 
butter, drawn .... 123 
butter, for pudding 202 
butter compound...l39 
Cambridge 135 



Page 
Sauce 

caper 124 

caramel 203-4 

caramel 393 

cardinal 135 

celery 139 

celery, cream of. ..130 

champagne 132 

chestnut 128 

chili .129 

chives 136 

chocolate 303 

chutney 132 

coffee, for pudding. 204 

Colbert 138 

cranberry 131 

cream 123 

cucumber, cold ...136 

curry 139 

custard, for pud- 
ding 303 

demi-glaze 121 

East Indian fish... 137 

egg 125, 386 

English plain 137 

fruit, for pudding. .201 

giblet 101 

hard, for pudding. 305 

Hollandaise 133 

horseradish 134 

horseradish butter . 139 
horseradish, iced.. .135 

Italian 122 

jelly 129 

lemon 133 

lemon, for pudding. 203 

lobster butter 139 

maitre d'hotel 136 

maitre d'hotel but- 
ter 139 

meat glaze 121 

mint 138, 385 

mint jelly 138 

mushroom 137 

mushroom, cream .138 
mustard for fish... 137 

mustard 126 

mustard, French ..127 

navy 139 

Normandy 134 



Pag« 

old Zealand 124 

olive 139 

onion 133 

oyster 133 

parsley 124 

picquante 133 

plum pudding 204 

pudding 201-5 

quick, for pudding. 303 

•rhubarb 130 

Robert 121 

salt fish .138 

snow, for pudding. 204 

snowflake ....304 

soubise 132 

Spanish (es- 

pagnole) 130 

spiced mustard 137 

spinach 136 

standard 123 

suet pudding 204 

supreme 136 

Swedish, cold 136 

tartar 135 

tartare 135 

tomato 127 

universal 132 

Veloutee 133 

-Victoria, for fish.. 13 8 

vinegar 302 

white (allemande) 122 

(bechamel) 133 

(Hollandaise) ..133 

wine 303 

Sauces and gravies.. 119 

Sauces, pudding 301 

Sauerbraten 75 

Sauerkraut 167 

Sausage, pork 92 

Scalloped chicken. . . . 105 

fish 55 

oysters 66 

oysters 383 

Scallops 61 

fried 384 

School of Domestic 

Science 458 

Scones .301 

Scotch roll 75 



"ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



519 



Page 

Scrapple .., 93 

Seasoning and flavor- 
ing 444 

Sewing 468 

Shad, baked and 

broiled 40 

planked 47 

roe 47 

Shaker, codfish, din- 
ner 333 

Shellfish 59 

Sheroet, coffee and 

cream 223 

cranberry 358 

fruit 224 

milk 324 

milk 358 

orange 234 

peach 358 

pineapple 233 

rhubarb 223 

standard cran- 
berry 392 

strawberry 333 

Sherry flip 361 

Shortcake, black- 
berry 388 

Edinboro 255 

lemon 288 

strawberry 287 

Shrimp, combination 

salad 144 

Shrimps, cream of . . . 29 

creamed 378 

on crawfish boiled. 59 
Sick-room recipes. . .343 

Almond milk 347 

Arrowroot 350 

Baked milk 346 

Barley water 345 

Beef broth 343 

Beef tea 343 

Blackberry cordial. . .351 
Brown bread coffee. 349 
Buttermilk, mulled .347 
Calf's foot blanc 

mange 343 

Caramel coffee 349 

Carrot coffee 349 

Corn coffee 349 



Page 

Cornmeal gruel 348 

Currant water 346 

Diet for invalid ....351 

Egg gruel 348 

Eel broth 343 

Elderberry syrup ...351 
Flaxseed lemonade .350 

Grain coffee 349 

Herb tea 351 

Iceland moss 348 

Invalids, diet for 351 

dont's for 351 

Irish moss 348 

Jellied chicken 344 

Jelly water 346 

Koumiss 346 

Koumiss, No. 3 347 

Milk porridge 347 

Mutton chops, 

broiled 345 

Mutton or lamb 

chops, stewed 345 

Oatmeal gruel 348 

Panada 344 

Parsley tea ..". 350 

Pineapple water ....345 

Rice gruel 348 

Rice water 346 

Scotch broth 343 

Scotch mutton broth. 343 
Slippery elm bark 

tea 351 

Strawberry water ...345 

Toast water 346 

Sherbet 

peach 358 

pineapple 357 

Whey 350 

Sinews, how to re- 
move 449 

Silver cake 370 

Slippery elm bark tea 351 

Smelts 50 

Snipe 11-t 

Snowflake cake 270 

Snow pudding 198 

Snow sauce, for pud- 

dipg 204 

Social forms 501 



Page 
Soda, home made ice 

cream 356 

lemon 355 

Soubise sauce 133 

Souffle, omelet 239 

rice pudding 190 

Soup, a r aurore 22 

a la veine 339 

apple 38 

asparagus 24 

bean, black 33 

bean, ideal 381 

bean, white 31 

bean, white No. 3. 33 

beef 383 

beef broth 13 

bouillon 17 

calf's foot : 13 

cauliflower, cream 

of 23 

celery, cream of . . . 30 

chestnut 34 

chestnut, cream of. 23 

chicken 14 

cherry 27 

cider 37 

clam, club 30 

clam, Rhode Island 

bisque 31 

claret 37 

combination 23 

consomme 11-13 

corn 18, 19 

cornmeal 37 

cucumber, cream of 23 

egg 36 

giblet 14 

green turtle 28 

gumbo 15 

lobster 29 

milk ;.. 26 

mock turtle 15 

mulkgatawny 16 

mushroom 25 

mutton broth 13 

noodle 20 

nuts, cream of . . . . 33 
ochra (gumbo) ... 15 

onion 24 

onion, cream of. . . 35 



520 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Page 

Soup 

oxtail 12 

oyster 29, 30 

oyster, for two 383 

pea 20-21 

potato 17 

potato, royal 329 

prune 28 

rice 19 

shrimps, cream of. 29 
spinach, puree of. . 35 

tomato 16 

tomato, cream of. . 17 

turnip 22 

turtle 15 

turtle, green 28 

vegetable 30 

white 36 

white Swiss 36 

white wine 37 

Soup garnishings ... 31 
Soups and gravies ... 9 
Spaghetti with meat. 230 

Spanish cream 313 

Spanish Stew.. 0pp. 331 

Spanish sauce 130 

Spareribs, baked, 

fresh 89 

baked, fresh. No. 2 90 

boiled, fresh 90 

boiled, salt 90 

Spatchcock 118 

Special Recipes, Opp. 331 

Spice cake 363 

Spinach. 

balls, cream 163 

consomme with ... 12 

puree of -. . 35 

salad 142 

sauce, cold 136 

Sponge cake 366 

Boston 267 

honey 267 

hot-water 268 

1775 267 

water 267 

white 267, 390 

Squab, Philadelphia 110 

Squash 174 

Squirrel 116 1 



Page 

Standard Sauce 123 

Steak and bananas. .331 
Steak and oyster pie. 331 

Steak, beef 73 

economical .........319 

Hamburg 73 

tenderloin 73 

Stew, beef 76 

clam 63 

Irish 97 

kidney 85 

lamb 98 



brown 



.111 
331 



mutton 

oyster 

pigeon, American 

style 

Spanish Opp. 

veal, Hungarian 

(goulash) 87 

Stoakes cake 368 

Stock, brown 10 

clear 9 

fish IX 

vegetable 10 

white '. 10 

Strawberry jelly 211 

Strawberries, pre- 
served 314 

Strawberry pudding 193 
Strawberry shortcake 287 

sherbet 223 

syrup 357 

Strawberry water . . . 345 
String beans, French. 336 

Stuffings 99, 102 

for goose or duck. .109 
turkey, women's 

club style 103 

Suckling pig, roast. . 88 

Succotash 175 

soup 19 

Suet pudding 194 

Suet pudding sauce.. 204 

Sugar 364 

Summer complaint, 

remedy for 457 

Sundaes, ice cream.. 316 

Supreme sauce 126 

Surprise bananas . .339 
Swedish sauce, cold. 136 



Page 

Sweetbreads 183 

lamb sautes 184 

Maryland style . . .384 
Sweetbreads a la Col- 
bert 333 

extra fine 323 

Sweet potatoes 161 

Syrup 365 

Elderberry 351 

for spiced fruits. . .312 . 

lemon 357 

of apple parings ..313 

strawberry 357 

Table d'hote dinner. 434 

Taflfy 373 

Tamales 181 

Tapioca, consomme 

with 11 

ice 190 

pudding 190 

Tartar dressing 153 

Tartar sauce 135 

Tartare sauce 135 

Tarts ,..278 

sand ..279 

Tea 354 

herb 351 

parsley 350 

Tea cakes 292 

Tenderloin, of beef. . 73 

of pork 90 

Terrapin 331 

Thickening 443 

Things to know and 

remember 456 

Timbales, fish, chicken 

and meat 55 

salmon 1S3 

Time for cooking. . . 5 

Toast 39V 

Toasted crackers 30 

Toast water 346 

Tomato and chicken 

salad 337 

Tomato butter 315 

catsup ..i 308 

chutney 307 

cream of, soup ... 17 

croquettes 164 

custard 206 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



521 



Pice 

Tomato 

jelly 336 

preserves 307 

sauce 127,133 

soup 16 

Tomatoes, and bacon 325 
baked stuffed . 163, 336 

broiled 163 

deviled 163 

fried 162 

raw 162 

spiced 307 

stewed 162 

stuffed 163 

with cucumber 
jelly 3S7 

Tongue, boiled beef. . 78 
baked 79 

Tripe 331 

a la Creole 379 

Trout, brook 49 

Turkey, cutlets 108 

how to prepare and 

roast 99 

how to remove 

sinews 449 

roast, bread stuf- 
fing 102 

roast, giblet sauce. .101 
roast, stuffed with 

oysters 100 

roast, Virginia 

style 101 

stuifing, women's 

club style 102 

vegetables served 
with 154 

Turnips I'B 

browned 176 

Turnip soup 22 

Turtle, mock 323 

Turtle soup, number 

one 15 

green 28 

mock IS 

Two persons, recipes 
for 381 

Universal sauce 133 

Vanities , 295 



Page 

Veal 81 

braised stuffed 

breast of 83 

curry 84 

cutlet, breaded 385 

cutlet, broiled 83 

cutlet fried 84 

forcemeat 36 

fricassee S2 

heart cake 83 

kidneys, broiled ... 85 
kidneys, stewed ... 85 

leg of, roast 81 

loaf 83. 323 

loin of, roast 82 

pie, with ham 85 

stew, Hungarian 

(goulash) 87 

stew, white 85 

Vienna schnitzel 84 

Veal heart cake 83 

Vegetable dinner i la 

Kaiserhoff 340 

Vegetable oyster 

(salsify) 169 

Vegetable soup 20 

Vegetables 155, 442 

chartreuse of 181 

hints on cooking . . 442 
served with meat.. 154 

Vegetable stock 10 

Veloutee sauce 123 

Venison 117 

mutton 98 

Vermicelli, consomme 

with 12 

Victoria sauce, for 

fish 138 

Vienna schnitzel .... 84 

Vinegar 313 

sauce 202 

Waffles 256 

rice 256 

Virginia style 389 

Wafers 295 

Walnut cake ., 273 

Watermelon cake ...271 
Wedding anniversa- 
ries 458 



P«ge 

Welsh rabbit 378 

Welsh rarebit 323 

Wheat, cracked 229 

germ 229 

Whey 350 

Whipped cream 211 

cream 392 

Whitefish, baked .... 47 

boiled 47 

for two persons... 383 

planked S5 

salt, boiled S3 

White sauce (alle- 

mande) 123 

(bechamel) 123 

(Hollandaise) ..123 

White soup 26 

Swiss soup 26 

wine soup_ ^ 

Why and how 439 

Widows' peach pud- 
ding 193 

Widows' wedding 

cake 260 

Wild duck 11* 

Wilted lettuce 

creamed 143 

Wine, home made 

blackberry 358 

berry 360 

currant 382 

dandelion 360 

raisin 360 

Wine cup 363 

Wine jelly 209 

Wine sauce 203 

Women's club style 
turkey stuffing .... 103 

Woodchucks 117 

Yarmouth cheese 

straws 56 

Yeast 245 

favorite home- 
made 245 

railroad 245 

Yorkshire pudding . . 190 
Young bride's cake.. 259 
Zula cake 273 



K C**<-3We€«J<35feJia5(«JS?<>r>;»S5SC-*»»3^l 




S S«KH33e£f»?03S<*K>Kfi5Sc^J^;^3*XX*»s ; 



JOT BOWK' 

THE EBGIPBS THGX 
.SHOULD BE KEPT* 



522 



RECIPES THAT SHOULD BE KEPT 



RECIPES THAT SHOULD BE KEPT 



To Housekeepers, Chefs and Caterers 

The aim has been to make the New Standard Domestic 
Science Cook Book as perfect and reliable as possible, but for 
fear some recipes not fully up to the standard may have crept 
in, we ask as a favor that any one purchasing the book and 
finding any recipe not as represented, will, if not too much 
trouble, communicate the fact to the publishers. On the other 
hand, if the compilation of recipes proves satisfactory, we 
shall be glad to receive expressions of approval. 

GOOD AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY LOCALITY 

No experience required. Terms mailed to any address on request. 

LAIRD & LEE, 263-265 Wabash Ave., CHICAGO 



