ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 

TX 715.189 
The useful cook book; a collection of fav 



3 1924 003 576 638 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003576638 



il£ookBook 




^ JNIM^ ii^y aeM^ of 



i 



,?!■»»■'►:?. .rii*'^*!*-. ti? »*-'S4. ?i» 



DEDICATION. 

To THE Wives and Mothers, 

WHO ARE OFTEN AT THEIR WITS^ ENDS TO FIND HEALTHFUL, ECONOMIC' 

AND APPETIZING DISHES FOR THEIR HUSBANDS AND SONS, 

THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED. 



325744 



HOW TO PRESERVE A HUSBAND. 

Be careful in your selection. Do not choose too young, and take 
only such as have been reared in a good moral atmosphere. When once 
decided upon and selected, let that part remain forever settled ; and give 
your entire thought to preparation for domestic use. 

Some insist on keeping them in pickle, while others are constantly 
getting them in hot water. This only makes them sour, hard and some- 
times bitter. 

Even poor varieties may be made aweet, tender and good by garnish- 
ing them with patience, well sweetened with smiles and flavored with 
kisses to taste. Then wrap them in a mantle of charity. Keep warm 
with a steady fire of domestic devotion, and serve with peaches and cream. 
When thus prepared, they will keep for years. Gbaxdma. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 



A COLLECTION OF 
FAVORITE RECIPES 




COMPILED BY 



THE LADIES' UNION 

OF THE 

FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH 

JTHACA, N. Y. 

1908 



Tested Recipes are like old friends, 
Tried and True 



ATKINSON & MITCH El-I_, PRINTERS, 
ITHACA, N. Y. 




INDEX. 

Beverages 9 

Bread 9 

Biscuit 13 

Buns 13 

Frauds 13 

Johimy-Ciake 13 

G«ms 14 

Muffins 15 

Eolls 16 

Cakes: 

Layer Cakes '. 16 

Loaf Cakes 21 

Cake Fillings and Frosting 37 

Candies 38 

Canning, Preserving, Pickling and Jellies 40 

Cheese Dishes 48 

Cookies 49 

Small Cakes 54 

Desserts : 

Cold 59 

Frozen 63 

Hot 66 

Eggs :-i 

Fish and Shell Fieh 73 

Meats 75 

Poultry 81 

Pies and Pastry 81 

Tarts . ., 86 

Salads '. 87 

Salads, Dressing and Sauces 88 

Soups , 90 

Vegetables 93 

APPENDIX. 

Miscelleaneous Household Hints 97 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Four teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful liquid. 

Four tablespoonsful equal 1 wine glass, or half a gill. 

Two wine glasses equal 1 gill, or half a, cup. 

Two gills equal 1 coffeecupful, or 16 tablespoonfuls. 

Two coffeecupfuls equal 1 pint. 

Two pints equal 1 quart. 

Four quarts equal 1 gallon. 

Two tablespoonfuls equal 1 ounce, liquid. 

One tablespoonful of salt equals 1 ounce. 

Sixteen ounces equal 1 pound, or pint of liquid. 

Four coffeeeupfuls sifted flour equal 1 pound. 

One quart of unsifted flour equals 1 pound. 

Eight or ten ordinary sized eggs equal 1 pound. 

One pint of sugar equals 1 pound. (White, granulated.) 

Two coffeeeupfuls of powdered sugar equal 1 pound. 

One coffeecupful of cold butter, pressed down, is one-half pound. 

One tablespoonful of soft butter, well rounded, equals 1 ounce. 

An ordinary tumblerful equals 1 coffeecupful, or half a pint. 

About 35 drops of any thin liquid will fill a common sized teaspoon. 

One pint of finely chopped meat, packed solidly, equal 1 pound. 

Three tablespoons of grated chocolate equal 1 ounce. 

A set of tin measures (with small spouts or lips), from a gallon 
down to half a gill, will be found very conyenient in every kitchen, 
though common pitchers, bowls, glasses, etc., may be substituted. 



TIME FOR COOKING. 

Meat— Beef ribs, well done 12-15 min. per lb. 

Beef, ribs, rare done 10 min. per lb. 

Beef, rolled 12-15 min. per lb. 

Beef, sirloin, rare done 10 min. per lb. 

Beef, sirloin, well done 12-15 min. per lb. 

Beef, boiled 30 min. per lb. 

Beef, corned 30 min. per lb. 

Beef, a la mode, boiled 4 hours 

Ham, boiled 20-35 min. per lb. 

Lamb, well done 15 min. per lb. 

Liver, whole 2 hours 

Mutton leg, rare 10 min. per lb. 

Muijfx>n leg, well done 15 min. per lb. 

Mutton, boiled 15 min. per lb. 

Pork, well done 30 min. per lb. 

Pork, boiled 25 min. per lb. 

Sweetbreads, boiled 20-30 min. per lb. 

Tripe 5-8 hours 

Tongue, smoked 3-4 hours 

Venison lO-^lS min. per lb. 

Veal, boiled 2-5 Qiours 

Fowl — Chicken, boiled 15 min. per lb. 

Duck, tame 40-60 min. per lb. 

Duck, wild 30-40 mia. per lb. 

Goose 8 lbs. 2 hours 

Grouse ; 30 min. per lb. 

Partridge 30-40 min. per lb. 

• Pigeon 30 min. per lb. 

Turkey , 8 lbs. 8 hours ; 10 lbs. 3 hours 

Turkey, boiled 15 min. p^ ib. 

Fish— Codfish, dry, boiled 35 mm. per lb. 

Clams 3-5 min. 

Pish, small 20-30 min. per lb. 

Fish, thick 4-6 lbs. 1 (hour 

Fish, long 6-8 lbs. 1 hour 

Lobsters, boiled whole 40 minutes 

Oysters : . . 3-5 minutes 



VlxsETABLES — Aspamgus, boiled 30-30 minutes 

Beans, shell, boiled 45-60 minutes 

Beets, young, bodied 20-45 minutes 

Beans, lima, boiled 20-45 minutes 

Beans, string, boiled 45-60 minutes 

Beans, dry, boiled 4 hours 

Beans, baked 6-8 hours 

Beans, green in pod, boiled 3 hours 

Brussels sproufB 15-20 minutes 

Corn, green, boiled 15-20 minutes 

Cauliflower, boiled 20-30 minutes 

Celery, boiled 20-30 minutes 

Carrots, boiled 20-45 minutes 

Cabbage, boiled 3-4 hours 

Cabbage, young, boiled 20-30 minutes 

Eggs, boiled 3-5 minutes 

Eggs, hard 15-20 minutes 

Hominy, boiled 1-2 hours 

Macaroni, boiled. 20-30 minutes 

Onions, boiled '20-45 minutes 

Oyster Plant, boiled 45-60 minutes 

Oatmeal, boiled 1-2 hours 

Potatoes, boiled 20-30 minutes 

Potatoes, baked ; . . . 30-45 minutes 

Peas, boiled 15-20 minutes 

Parsnips, boiled 20-45 minutes 

Rice, boiled 15-20 minutes 

Spinach, boiled 15-20 minutes 

Squash, boiled 20-30 minutes 

Turnip, boiled 20-45 miinutes 

Wheat, boiled 1-2 hours 

Bread — Loaf, balced 40-60 minutes 

Rolls, baked 10-20 minutes 

Biscuits, baked 10-20 minutes 

Graham gems 30 .minutes 

Coffee, boiled 1 minute 

Cookies 10-15 minutes 

Gingerbread 20-30 minutes 

Fruit Cake 3 hours 

Sponge Cake 45-60 minutes 

Plain Cake 30-40 minutes 



Eice, baked 60 minutes 

Tapioca, baked 60 minutes 

Plum Pudding, baked 10 minutes 

Indian Pudding, baked 2-3 hours 

Bread Pudding, baked 60 minutes 

Custards, baked 15-20 minutes 

Steamed Pudding 1-3 hours 

Steamed Brown Bread 3 hours 



BEVERAGES. 

GEAPE JUICE. 
Ten pounds of grapes, weighed with stems on. Remove from stems. 
Put in stewpan and crush a little with potato masher. Add 1 quart of 
water and boil a few minutes. Place in a bag and drain, then add 1 
pound of sugar to the juice, bring to a boil, and seal in tight bottles or 
cans. If not sweet enough to suit taste, add more sugar. 

Mes. Van Slyee. 

Pick Concord grapes from stem. Wash grapes and heat, stirring all 
the time. When broken pour into jelly bag and allow juice to drip. 
Measure and allow one-fourth the quantity of sugar. Cook juice and 
sugar to boiling point, pour into hot bottles or jars, cork and seal imme- 
diately. Juice obtained by squeezing the bag should be put up separa;tely 
and marked "Seconds." Mes. C. A. Mabtin. 

BREAD. 



BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of sour milk ; 1 teaspoon of salt ; 2 scant teaspoons of soda ; 
1 scant cup of "C" sugar; 1 scant cup of graham flour; 1 teaspoon of 
melted butter. Pill three 1-lb. baking powder cans half full, put on 
covers, and bake from 1 hour to 1 and 30 minutes, according to heat of 
oven. Let cool in cans with covers off. Set on asbestos mat when 
baking. Mes. L. C. P. 

Two cups of sour milk ; 2 small teaspoons soda ; 2-3 cup of molasses ; 
little salt; 3 cups of graham flour or less. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mes. Feank Staekins. 

Three cups of graham flour; ly^ cups of white flour; % cup of 
molasses; 1 pint of milk; y2 cup of sugar; 1 tablespoon of shortening; 
1 heaping teaspoon of soda; i/^ teaspoon of salt. ,Bake one hour. 

Edith M. King. 

Two cups of sour milk ; 3 scant teaspoons of soda ; 3 tablespoons of 
sugar (brown) ; 2 cups of graham flour; ^ cup of wheat flour; 1 tea- 
spoon of salt; small piece of lard. Mrs. 0. C. Emmons. 



10 THE USEFUL COOKBOOK 

BROWN BEE AD (ONE LOAF.) 
Warm y^ cup of molasses, add i/4 teaspoon of soda and a teaspoon 
of butter; 1 cup of sweet milk; 2 small tablespoons of commeal; 2 cups 
of grabam flour ; 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Stir well, put in greased tin and 
let stand half hour; then bake from 35 to 40 minutes. 

:\rns. K. D. Clapp. 

BOSTON BEOWN BEEAD. 
Two cups of Indian meal; 1 cup of flour; 1 cup of sweet milk; 2 
cups of thick sour milk; 2-3 cup of molasses; a little salt; 1 rounding 
teaspoon of soda. Steam 2^ hours, bake half hour. All water can be 
used if milk is not at hand, but less water should be used, or it will be 
too thin. Mrs. 0. H. Pe.'UBODy. 

One cup of graham flour; 1 cup of eornmeal ; y^ c^P of molasses; 1 
cup of sour milk; 1 teaspoon of salt and 1 of soda. Steam li^ hours. 

Mbs. C. W. Scott. 

One cup of graham ; 1 cup of meal ; % cup of molasses : 1 cup of sour 
milk; 1 teaspoon of soda; a little salt. Steam V-/2 hours in covered can 
or pail. .Mrs. Jaiies H.^llam. 

Two cups c-ornmeal; 1 cup of New Orleans molasses; 2 cups graham 
flour; 3 cups sour or buttermilk; 3 even teaspoons of soda; 2 even tea- 
spoons of salt. Mix together the meal, flour, soda and salt; add molasses 
and milk ; stir thoroughly. Two tablespoons of melted butter to be stirred 
in the last thing. Pour into well-buttered molds. It is just about large 
enough to fill four 1-lb. baking powder cans. Steam 4 or 5 hours. 

^Irs. E. C. Carpenter. 

BEOWN'S BEOWX BEEAD. 
Two cups of sour milk ; 1 heaping teaspoon of soda ; ^2 cup of sugaj; 
1/2 cup of molasses; 1 egg: 1 tablespoon of shortening: I0 teaspoon of 
salt ; 3 large cups of graham flour. Bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. I. A. Brown. 

STEADIED BEOWN BEEAD. 
Two cups of eornmeal ; 2 cups wheat or graham flour ; 1/-, cup of 
molasses ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; l^ teaspoon of salt ; enough sour milk to 
make a rather soft batter. Steam 3 hoiirs and bake a few minutes. 

Mrs. Lydia Hemingway-. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 11 

COEN BEEAD. 

Beat 1 egg ; add 1-3 cup white sugar and 1 tablespoon of lard ; cream 
all together; Md 1 cup of sour milk, into which is put 1 even teaspoon 
of soda ; beat until foamy. Then add to -the first mixture 1 cup of corn- 
meal, ^2 cup of flour, % teaspoon of salt. Mix thoroughly and bake 
about 30 minutes. Mrs. H. L. Conlee. 

GEAHAM BEBAD. 
Half cup of cornmeal ; % cup of graham ; 1 egg ; a pinch of salt ; 1 
teaspoon of sugar ; 1 teaspoon of baking powder ; enough milk to make a 
batter. Mrs. W. H. Bryan. 

JOHNNY-CAKE. 

One pint of buttermilk or sour milk. Add 1 teaspoon of soda (heap- 
ing full) ; break in 1 egg, % cup of sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, 3 cups of 
cornmeal, 2 cups of flour. Stir all well. Sweet milk can be used; then 
add 2 teaspoons of cream tartar.) Mrs. C. M. Doyle. 

STEAMED LOAF. 
One quart of buttermilk; % teacup of molasses; 1 teaspoon of salt; 
heaping teaspoon of saleratus ; 1 teacup of wheat flour ; then the rest of 
cornmeal stirred stiff enough to drop from spoon. Steam 4 hours and 
longer if you can. Brown in oven 15 minutes. 

Mrs. H. p. O'Nbil. 

GEAHAM BEEAD. 
One pint of warm water ; 1/^ cup of yeast and white flour enough to 
make a stiff sponge. Let it rise over night. In the morning add % cup 
of sugar, y^ teaspoon of soda, and graham flour to make it about as stiff 
as can be stirred with a spoon. Put in baking tin and let rise until very 
light. Coarse ground graham is much the best. 

Mrs. J. E. Updike. 

Two cups of rich sour milk; 1% teaspoons of soda; 1 cup of mo- 
lasses; 3 cups of graham flour; 1 cup of white flour; salt and a little 
baking powder. Bake in bread tin. Mrs. M. B. Clinton. 

Five and a half cups of graham flour ; 3 cups of buttermilk ; % cup 
of molasses ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 1 teaspoon of salt ; 1 tablespoon of short- 
ening. Eva Elliott. 



12 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

One cup of sweet milk; 1 cup of sour milk; good pinch of salt; 1 
teaspoon of soda dissolved in the sour milk; 3 tablespoons of sugar; 
graham flour to make stiff as cake. Use coffee cup. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. Osteandee. 

Two cups of sour milk; 2 teaspoons of soda; % cup of molasses; 1 
egg; V2 teaspoon of salt; 3 tablespoons of wheat flour, and enough 
graham flour to make a stiff batter. Makes one large loaf. (Good.) 

Mes. Van Sltke. 

Three eggs; 2-3 cup of sugar; 2 teaspoons of baking powder; 14 cup 
butter; 2 cups of graham flour; 1 cup wheat flour; a little salt, and 
sweet milk enough to make thick batter. Bake in slow oven about half 
hour. Maeian E. Clapp. 

BISCUIT. 



SOUE CEBAM BISCUIT. 
One quart flour ; 1 cup sour cream ; 2 teaspoons cream tartar and 1 
of soda; salt; enough sweet milk to make soft dough. 

Mes. J. P. Maetin. 

BAKING POWDEE BISCUIT. 
Heaping teaspoon baking powder and tablespoon shortening to each 
cup flour; salt; sweet milk enough to make soft dough. Sift flour, salt 
and baking powder together, rub in shortening, mix with milk and roll 
out lightly about half an inch thick. To make split biscuit divide dough 
into two equal portions, roll half as thick, spread one piece with melted 
butter, lay other piece on top and cut out. Crowd biscuits in putting into 
pan. Bake in quick oven. G. S. M. 

Two quarts sifted flour; 8 even teaspoonfuls baking powder; 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt; 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of shortening; 1 cup of milk, 
enough to make a soft dough. Mix very quickly and bake in a hot oven. 

Mrs. Hattie Caepenter. 

DEOP BISCUITS. 

Two cups of flour ; 3 teaspoons of baking powder ; lard size of a wal- 
nut ; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 1 teaspoon of salt ; made in soft dough to drop 
off spoon. Mrs. A. E. Huddle. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 13 

BUNS. 



ENGLISH HOT CEOSS BTJNS. 
Sift into a large bowl 1 full quart of flour, i^ cup of sugar, y2 ^^'^ 
spoon of salt. Dissolve 14 ^ cup of butter in a generous half pint of 
warm milk, and add to the dry ingredients, with the yolks of 2 beaten 
eggs. Add % yeast oake, dissolved in a little water, 1^ nutmeg grated, 
whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. This should make a very soft dough. Cover 
with cloth -and place where it will keep warm, and let rise over night. In 
morning take pieces of dough size of an egg and mould them into little 
cakes 1 inch in thickness. Place on buttered tins, leaving space between, 
cover, set in warm place and allow to rise. They should be twice the 
original size. With a sharp knife cut a cross in the center of each, bake 
in moderate oven for about half an hour. When done brush the top with 
a syrup made of sugar land water. A cup of dried currants may be added 
at pleasure. Mes. Albert Jacobs. 



FRAUDS. 



PEAUDS. 
These are really pop-overs. One cup of flour; 1 egg; l^/^ cups of 
milk ; pinch of salt. Put all the ingredients in a deep bowl, beat with a 
Dover egg beater until all bubbles. Bake in hot iron pans. The oven 
should be hot at first, and then cooled a little to allow them to crust 
without burning. This quantity will make about 11 frauds. 

Mes. H. Wade Hibbaed. 

GEEEN COEN CAKES. 
One quart grated green corn ; 2 eggs, half cup of flour ; half cup of 
milk; 1 heaping teaspoon of butter; a little salt. Bake on griddle. 

Jennie Noetheup. 



JOHNNY-CAKE. 



BEEAKEAST JOHNNY CAKE. 
One cup of sugar ; butter size of 2 eggs melted ; 3 eggs ; 2 cups of eom- 
meal ; 2 cups of flour ; 4 level teaspoons of baking powder ; 2 cups of milk. 
Mix sugar and butter, then add the eggs. Mrs. J. L. Stone. 



14 , THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

JOHNNY CAKE. 
Half cup of sugar ; 1 tablespoon of shortening ; 1 egg ; 1 cup of sour 
milk ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 1 eup of commeal ; 1 cup of flour ; a little salt. 

Maey B. Mooee. 

Two cups of cornmeal; 3 cups of flour; 4 eggs; 2 cups of milk; 1 
cup of sugar; butter size of 2 eggs; 2 teaspoons of cream tartar; 1 tea- 
spoon of soda; a little salt. Jennie Nohthrup. 

( 1 ) One cup of buttermilk ; 1 cup of sugar ; 1 cup of flour ; 1 cup 
of oommeal ; 1 egg ; 1 level teaspoon of soda. 

(2) One egg; 1 cup of sweet milk; half cup of sugiasr; 1 eup of 
flour; 1 cup of cornmeal; butter size of egg; 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder. Mrs. G. M. Pashlet. 

One egg; 3 teaspoons of sugar; 3 tablespoons of butter; 1 cup of 
cornmeal ; 1 cup of flour ; 1 scant teaspoon of soda in ly^ cups of sour 
milk. Mrs. W. H. Bryan. 



GEMS. 

GEMS. 
One-third cup of sugar; small piece of butter; 1 egg; 1 cup of sweet 
milk ; 3 cups of flouT ; 2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Mart E. ;Moore. 

CORN GEMS. 
One cup of cornmeal; 1 cup of wheat flour; 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder; 1 cup of sweet milk; 2 teaspoons each of sugar and lard: 1 
egg ; half teaspoon of salt. Bake half an hour. 

Mrs. 'J. E. Updike. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 
One pint graiham flour ; 3 tablespoons of sugar ; 1 scant teaspoon of 
salt; 1 egg; 1 teaspoon of soda; •? teaspoons of cream tartar; 3. teaspoons 
of cream ; milk enough for a medium thick batter. 

Mrs. C. M. Doyle. 



TEE USEFUL COOK BOOK 15 

GEAHAM CEACKBES. 
One and one-half cups of graham flour; 1 cup of white flour; one- 
third cup of sugar ; one-half cup of shortening, butter and lard ; l^/^ tea- 
spoons of baking powder; a little salt. Wet with milk, roll thin, prick 
and bake well done. Jennie Northrup. 



MUFFINS. 



MUFFIN'S. 
Use white or graham flour. Two eggs well beaten ; 2 cups of flour ; 
1 tablespoon melted butter; 3 heaping teaspoons baking powder; 1 table- 
spoon of sugar; l^^ cups of sweet milk. Mrs. E. C. Carpenter. 

Two cups of flour ; 1 cup of milk ; 3 teaspoons of baking powder ; 1 
egg; 1 teaspoon of butter; half teaspoon of salt. Stir well together; 
bake 25 minutes. Eva Elliott. 

WHEAT FLOUB MUFFINS. 
One quart of flour; 3 heaping teaspoons of baking powder; half 
teaspoon of salt ; butter size of an egg ; 1 pint of sweet milk. 

Jennie Forthrup. 

SQUASH MUFFINS. 
One egg; half cup of sugar; 1 tablespoon shortening; 3 tablespoons 
of squash; pinch of salt; 2 teaspoons of baking powder; 1% cups of sweet 
milk; flour enough to make a very stiff batter. Beat egg and sugar, add 
squash, shortening and milk. Sift baking powder in flour. The squash 
is boiled and mashed. Bake -as quickly as possible. This quantity makes 
from 12 to 18. Mrs. Van Sltke. 

MUFFINS WITHOUT EGOS. 
When eggs are high priced a very good muffin oan be made without 
any. Two cups of sifted flour; 2 slightly rounding teaspoons of baking 
powder; 1 level teaspoon of salt; 1 1-3 cups of oold, fresh milk. Sift the 
fl'our, salt and baking powder together ; pour over them the milk ; stir to 
a smooth batter and drop from a spoon into greased gem pans. Bake 
about 15 minutes. Mrs. H. Wade Hibbard. 

OOEN MUFFINS OE JOHNNY-CAKE. 
One cup of commeal ; 1 cup of flour : 3 or 3 tablespoons of sugar ; 
butter size of an egg; 1 egg;2 tablespoons of baking powder; 1 cup of 



16 TEE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

sweet milk. Mix dry ingredients, work butter into them, add milk, aad 
lastly the well-beaten egg. Mes. Laura Fuemak. 

GEAHAM MUFFINS. 
One and a half cups of graham flour ; half cup wheat flour ; butter size 
of an egg; 1 tablespoon of sugar; 1 egg; pinch salt; 1 cup of sweet milk; 
dry ingredients and mix thoroughly, add the milk and lastly the well- 
beaten egg. Bake in quick oven. Mes. C. A. Maetin. 

One egg; 1 tablespoon of butter; 1 tablespoon of sugar; 2^2. tear 
spoonfuls of baking powder; half teaspoon of salt; two-thirds of a piat 
of milk ; li^ pints of flour. Mes. Hattie Caepentee. 

Three cups of flour; 2 teaspoons of baking powder; 1 teaspoon of 
salt; 1 cup of sugar; 1 egg; 1 pint of sweet milk; 1 tablespoon of melted 
butter. This quantity makes 20 muffins. Mes. J. R. Updike. 



ROLLS. 



PAEKEE HOUSE ROLLS. 
Into two quarts of sifted flour rub 3 tablespoons of butter. In a 
hole in the center of the flour put 1 pint of cold boiled milk, half cup of 
sugar and half cup of yeast. Set at night ; in the morning mix the flour 
all in (but add no more) and let it rise until about 3 o'clock in the after- 
noon. Roll out and cut with a cake cutter, spread half with butter and 
fold together. Let them rise until very light, and brush over with milk 
2 teaspoons baking powder. Rub the butter into the flour, add the other 
and sugar before putting in the oven. Bake half an hour. 

Mes. J. E. Updike. 

One pint scalded sweet milk. When nearly cool add 1 cake of Yeast 
Foam, a little salt, mix to a stiff batter, let rise over night. Knead in 
morning, set to rise until 2 P. M. Klnead, roll out 1 inch thick, spread 
with butter, cut out and fold over. Place one inch apart in pan and let 
get very light ; bake in quick oven. Spread a little butter on top and dust 
with sugar just before baking. Mes. Ltdia F. Hemingway. 



LAYER CAKE. 



In cake making, put fruit into the butter and sugar, and the fruit 
will not be as likely to settle. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 17 

LAYER CAKE. 

One cup of white sugar; buttter half the size of an egg; 1 egg; two- 
thirds cup of sweet milk ; 2 cups- of flour ; 3 teaspoons of baking powder 
sifted in flour. Mrs. C. W. Harkbe. 

One and a half cups of sugar ; 3 tablespoons of butter ; 1 egg or the 
yolk; 1 cup of milk; 3 large cups of flour; 3 teaspoons of baking 
powder. Ketta Brown. 

One cup of sugar ; butter size of an egg ; 1 egg ; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 
2 cups flour ; 3 teaspoons of baking powder ; flavor to 'taste. 

Mrs. John Sabin.. 

Cream one-fourth of a cup of butter; 1 cup of sugar, and the yolk' 
of 1 egg. When very light add 1 cup of sweet milk which is almost luke-- 
warm ; then 3 cups of flour which has been sifted several times, in which' 
is a teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. Whisk to a stiff 
froth the white of 1 egg, stir the cake once more and add the egg. Bake 
in three layers in a quick oven. Mrs. Hattib Carpbntbr, 

APPLE LAYER CAKE. 

One cup of sugar; two eggs; 1 cup of sweet milk; butter (size of an 
egg) ; 2 cups of flour; 3 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Apple Frosting for Cake — One grated apple; half cup of sugar; 
white of one egg. Beat half an hour. Mrs. 0. C. Emmons. 

BLACKBERRY JAM CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar ; 1 cup of butter ; 3% cups of flour ; 1% cups of 
blackberry Jiam ; 6 eggs ; 6 tablespoons of sour milk ; 3 teaspoons of soda ; 
half teaspoon nutmeg; half teaspoon allspice; half teaspoon cinnamon. 

Bake in layers and use frosting for filling. This miakes two large 
cakes. Mes.'Chas. H. Williams. 

BUTTER CAKE. 

One cup of sugar; 1 cup of milk; 1 egg; 1% cups of flour; 3 tea- 
spoons of baking powder; 3 tablespoons of melted butter put in last; 
bake in two layers. Pilling: One tablespoon butter; 1 cup of confection- 
ers' sugar ; 3 tablespoons of milk ; half teaspoon of vanilla. H. A. C 



18 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

BROWN LAYER CAKE. 
Yolks of 2 eggs ; 2 tablespoons of butter. Put eggs and butter in a 
cup, fill with molasses. Add 6 tablespoons of boiling water; 1 teaspoon 
of soda; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon; half teaspoon of cloves; a little salt; 
IV2 cups of flour. Put layers together with frosting. 

Mes. I. A. Brown. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
Three eggs, leaving out the white of one for frosting; II/2 cups of 
■sugar; half cup of butter; 1 cup of milk; 2 cups of flour; 1 teaepoon of 
soda; 3 squares of melted chocolate stirred in the last thing. The cake 
will seem thin, but do not put in any more flour, for herein is the beauty 
of the cake; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in slow- oven. 

Mrs. I. A. Brown. 

One cup granulated sugar; 1 cup of sweet milk; 1 tablespoon melted 
butter ; yolk 1 egg ; 1 teaspoon of vanilla ; 1 scant teaspoon soda ; half 
cup grated chocolate ; 1% cups of flour. Take half the milk, the yolk of 
the egg and the chocolate, melt, and cook in an agate basin until it 
thickens. When partly cool, add the butter, then the sugar, and then the 
remainder of the ingredients. Be careful that it does not bake too much, 
as that makes it tough. Put together with boiled icing. 

Edna J. .Sxow. 

One cup of white sugar ; half cup of sweet milk ; half cup of melted 
butter ; whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff ; 1% cups of flour, with 3 teaspoons 
of baking powder sifted in it. Bake in 3 layers. Take white* of 3 i^gg-s 
and make frosting as for other cake ; add 1 teaspoon of vanilla and two- 
thirds cake of Gferman sweet chocolate grated. Spread between layers, 
but not on top. Ice top and sides. Ik) not frost until cake is cool. Same 
recipe may be used for ooooanut. Mrs. J. Sixcebaugh. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 
One cup of sugar ; half cup of butter ; 2 eggs ; two^hirds cup of milk ; 
2 cups of floiu-; 3 teaspoons of baking powder; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 
Cream butter and sugar; add eggs, then milk, then flour with baking 
powder well sifted thi-ough it, flavoring last. Filling : One-quaiter cake 
of grated chocolate; 1 cup of sugai-; 1 egg. stir grated chocolate, sugar 
and egg together, and if the egg will not moisten use a little milk, enouo-h 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 19 

so it will stir well. Cook slowly 15 to 30 minutes, oonstaiitly stirring. 
Cool a little and add vanilla to taste. Spread while warm. This will 
make a cake of four layers. Mes. B. M. Newton. 

CHOCOLATE LAYEE OR LOAF CAKE. 
Two cups of sugar; half cup of butter; half cup of graited chocolate, 
dissolved in half cup of boiling water; half cup of sour milk or butter- 
milk ; 2 eggs ; 3% cups of flour ; 1 teaspoon of -soda. Flavor with vanilla 
and put together with frosting. Mrs. E. C. Buck. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE, OR LOAF CAKE. 
Yolk 1 egg; 1 cup of sugar; 1% cups of flour; 1 cup of sweet milk; 
1 teaspoon of soda in milk ; one-quarter cake chocola'te ; butter size of an 
egg. Melt these together and add rest. Mes. P. J. Woodruff. 

FINE LAYER CAKE. 
One and a half cups of granulated sugar ; half cup of butter stirred to 
a cream; whites of 6 eggs, or 3 whole eggs; 2 teaspoons of cream tartar 
in 2 heaping cups of sifted flour ; 1 teaspoon of soda in half cup of sweet 
milk. Bake in 3 layers. Pilling : One teacup of sugar and a little water 
boiled together until it is brittle when dropped in cold water; remove 
from stove and stir quickly into well beaten white of an egg ; add to this 

1 cup .of chopped hickory nuts, and spread between the layers. 

Mes. B. J. Sherman. 

FRENCH C:REAM CAKE. 
Two whole eggs and yolk of another; save the white for frosting; 1 
cup of sugar; butter size of a walnut; half cup of sweet milk; 1% cups 
of flour ; 1 heaping teaspoon of baking powder. Bake in layers. Cream : 
Boil half pint of sweet milk ; then add 1 tablespoon corn starch wet in a 
little milk ; 1 well beaten egg ; half cup of sugar ; one-quarter cup of but- 
ter, and vanilla. Jennie Noetheup. 

GOOD LAYER CAKE. 

Two eggs, taking out the white of one for frosting ; 1 coffee cup two- 
thirds full of granulated sugar; half cup of butter, warm but not melted; 

2 cups of flour ; two-thirds cup of sweet milk ; 3 full teaspooois of balcing 
powder. Beat eggs, sugar and butter to a cream ; then add flour through 
which the baking powder has been sifted. Bake in layers and put to- 
gether with frosting. Mrs. E. C. Buok. 



80 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

GEAXD LAYEE FEUIT CAKE. 
One cup of brown sugar; half cup of shortening; 1 egg; half tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice; half cup of molasses; 1 
cup of buttermilk; 1 cup of raisins, chopped; 3 cups of flour; 1 teaspoon 
of soda. White icing. Mes. H. T. H. 

LAEGE LAYEE CAKE. 
One cup of sugar; 1 tablespoon of butter; % egge; 1 cup of sweet 
milk; 3 cups flour; 2 teaspoons of baking powder; salt and flavoring. 
Cream butter and sugar, then add 1 egg at a time and beat thoroughly. 
Mix flour and baking powder thoroughly before putting in. Beat well, 
put together with any kind of filling. Eoena L. Shepahd. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 
One-quarter eup of sugar; half cup of butter, creamed; stir it well; 
3 eggs; two-thirds cup of milk; 21^ cups of flour; 3 teaspoons of baking 
powder. Makes 4 layers. Filling : Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon ; 1 
cup of water; 1 large cup of sugar; 3 eggs; 3^ tablespoons of cornstarch. 
Take a little of the lemon 'and water to mix com starch. Mis all to- 
gether and heat through, stirring constantly, and spread while warm. 

Mrs. E. M. Newton. 

MOLASSES LAYEE CAKE. 
Yolk of 1 egg; 1 tablespoon of butter; 1 eup cf molasses; 1 teaspoon 
soda dissolved in a cup of boiling water; .1 teaspoon each cinnamon and 
cloves ; 2 cups of flour. Put together with plain icing or with boiled icing 
mixed with chopped raisins. Mrs. Laura FuR:NrAX. 

MOLASSES LAYEE CAKE. 
One-half cup of sugar ; 1 tablespoon of butter ; 1 egg ; 1 cup of mo- 
lasses ; 1 cup of sour milk : 1 teaspoon of soda ; 3 cups of flour ; 1 te^ispoon 
of ginger or cinnamon as preferred; a little salt. Cream butter and 
sugar ; add egg and molasses. Dissolve soda in a little of the milk, then 
add milk and soda, flour and seasoning. Eoena L. Shepard. 

One cup of sugar; 1 cup of molasses; 1 cup of buttermUk; one- 
quarter cup of butter ; 1 egg ; 3 scant cups of flour ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 
1 teaspoon each of cinnamon and allspice. Put any filling desired be- 
tween layers. Mrs. Geo. A. Dueling. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 21 

Yolk of 1 egg, butter size of yolk ; 1 cup of molasses ; 1 cup of boil- 
ing water; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon and cloves; 1 teaspoon of soda. Stir 
thick with flour. Stir soda in water ; use jelly for filling. 

Mrs. H. T. H. 

SPICB LAYBE CAKE. 
One cup of brown sugar; half cup of melted butter; 1 cup of sour 
milk or cream; 1 teaspoon of soda; 2 eggs; 1 teaspoon each cinnamon, 
cloves and salt; half cup of raisins, chopped fine, added last. Put cake 
together with frosting. Mrs. A. B. Huddle. 

VAEIETY CAKE. 
One and a half cups of granulated sugar ; half cup of butter ; two- 
thirds cup of sweet milk ; 3 eggs ; 1 teaspoon of cream tartar ; half tea- 
spoon of soda; 2 cups of flour. Put two^hirds batter into 2 tins. Add 
to the remaining third 1 cup of raisins chopped fine; 2 teaspoons of cin- 
namon; 3 .tablespoons of molasses. When baked put the dark part be- 
tween the two light layers with boiled frosting. 

Mrs. E. J. Curtis. 



LOAF CAKE 



ANGEL CAKE. 
One cup white of egg; iy2 cups of granulated sugar; 1 cup of flour, 
sifted ; 1 even teaspoon of cream tartar ;' flavoring to taste. Beat the 
white a little, then put in the cream tartar and beat until it will cling to 
the bowl when turned upside down. 'Sift in sugar slowly ; three-quarters 
spoonful almond. Add the flour lightly but thoroughly. Take a knife 
and cut through the dough to take out the large holes. 

Jennie JSTorthrup. 

APPLE CAKE. 
One cup of sugar; half cup of butter; 2 eggs, the yolks and white; 
half cup of sweet milk ; half cup of cold water ; 3 cups of flour, with 3 
teaspoons of baking powder sifted through it.. Flavor with lemon or 
almond and bake in layers. Icing : 1 or 3 good sized apples, peeled and 
grated fine ; 1 white of egg saved out from cake recipe ; 1 cup of granu- 
lated sugar. Beat all the ingredients together until stiff like whipped 
cream. Helena E. Hill. 



32 THE USiiFUl. COOK BOOK 

ANGEL FOOD. 

One caip of flour; 11/4 cai|)s of granulated sugar; whites of 11 eggs; 
1 teaspoon of vanilla; 1 teaspoon of cream tartar. Sift the flour 4 times, 
then measure it and add the cream tartar and sift 4 times more. Sift 
sugar 3 times. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth, and add 
the sugar, a little at a time, and then the flour and the vanilla. Do not 
butter the pan or oil the paper laid on the bottom. When done turn the 
cake upside down, place the pan bottom upwards and lay the cake upon 
it. Frost the bottom of the calvo. Minnie S. Willis. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar ; half cup of butter ; 11/4 cups of apple sauce. Add 

1 teaspoon of soda to apple^sauce while hot; 1 large cup of raisins; 1 
teaspoon of cloves; 1 te^aspoo'n of cinnamon; i cups of flour. Add a.s 
much fruit as desired, but add a little extra shortening. 

Edna J. Snow. 

APPLE SAU(!E CAKE. 

One and a half cups of apple sauce: 1 cup of sugar; 3 cups of flour: 
half cup of butter ; 1 cup of raisins ; "2 teaspoons of soda in apple ^uce ; 
half teaspoon of clove.*; 1 teaspoon of cinnainon ; also nutmeg. 

Mrs. H. T. H. 

APPLE SACCE CAKE. 

(Without butter or eggs.) 
One cup of sugar; 1% cups of apple sauce (thick) ; 2 teaspoons of 
soda, dissolved in apple sauce; '2 1/2 cups of flour, measured before sifting; 

2 tablespoons of molasses; spu-cs and fruit to taste. 

^Trs. Laura Fuemax. 

One cup of brown sugar; half cup of butter; 1 cup of apple sauce 
prepared for the table; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon; lialf teaspoon of cloves; 
1 teaspoon of soda sifted with flour; 2 cups of flour; 1 cup of raisins. 

^riis. Hanson Smith. 

Three cups of apple sauce. Stow as for table use, mash fine ; 1 cup 
of butter; 2 cups of sugar; 4 cups of flour; 2 teaspoons of soda. Fruit: 

3 cups of raisins, citron and nuts if desired. Minnie S. Willis. 



THE USEFUL COUK BOOK 23 

BLAOKBBKRY CAKE. 

One cup of sugar (scant) ; half cup of butter ; 11^ cups of canned 
blackberries; yolks of 3 eggs or 1 whole one; 1 teaspoon each cinnamon, 
cloves, and soda ; flour to make quite a stiff batter ; amount is variable de- 
pending on juice of berries. Try small cake first. Bake either in loaf or 
layers. ^Ies. Laura Fubman. 

BEEAD CAKE. 

One and a half cups of soft yeast sponge; half cup of butter; IV2 
cups of sugar; 1 egg; 1 cup of raisins cut in small pieces; half teaspoon 
of soda; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; 1% teaspoon of cloves; 1 cup of flour. 
This must be mixed together thoroughly, stand in a warm place an hour, 
then bake in a vei-y moderate oven. Mrs. X. B. Drake. 

One cup of bread sponge ; 1 cu.p of sugar ; half cup of butter ; 1 tea- 
spoon of soda ; 3 tablespoons of sweet milk ; 1 egg ; 1 cup of flour ; spices 
to taste; 1 cup or more of raisins. ^Trs. Laura Furman. 

BUTTEEMILK CAKE. 

One pint of buttermilk ; 2 cups of brown sugar ; half cup of butter ; 
1 cup of chopped raisins; 4 cups of flour; 1 teaspon of cinnamon; half 
teaspoon of cloves; 3 teaspoons of soda. Mr.s. Lydia Hemingway. 

One cup of sugar; 1 cup of buttermilk; 1 cup of raisins chopped 
fine; 1 teaspoon each of 'all kinds of spices; a pinch of salt; 6 tablespoons 
of melted lard; 1% cups of flour. Bake in slow oven. X. C. 

ciNisrAMOisr cake. 

One egg, beaten; two-thirds cup of sugar; one-quarter cup of melted 
butter; two-thirds cup of sweet milk; 1 heaping cup of flour sifted with 
1 teaspoon of baking powder; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon. Bake about 15 
minutes. Marion E. Clapp. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Four cups of brown sugar; 1 cup of butter; 1 cup of sour milk; 4 
cups of flour; 1 cup of grated chocolate; 1 cup of hot water to dissolve 
chocolate; 4 eggs; 2 teaspoons of soda; 2 teaspoons of baking powder. 
This quantity makes 2 large cakes. Mrs. A. A. Stanley. 



24 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK' 

Melt one-quarter oake of Baker's ohoeolate with half cup of sugar, 
half cup of sweet milk and 1 egg. Boil, stirring ooiDBtantly. When cool 
add 3 tablespoonfuls of vanilla. 

One cup of sugar ; half cup of butter ; 1 egg and yolk of another ; 2 
cups of flour; 1 teaspoon of soda. Stir both mixtuTes together. Bake 
in moderate oven. Over-baking makes it dry. 

Mks. Hattie Cahpentek. 

Half cup of grated chocolate; half cup of sweet milk; yolk 1 egg. 
Boil until thick and then add 1 tablespoon of butter; 1 cup of sugar; 
half cup of milk ; 2 cups of flour ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 2 teaspoons of cream 
of tartar. Flavor with vanilla. Mks. McWhortek. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE. 
Two squares grated chocolate; yolk 1 egg; half cup of sugar; half 
cup of sweet milk. Boil until thick. Add 2 teaspoons vanilla; 1 cup of 
sugar; half cup of sweet milk; half cup of butter; 1 egg; 2 cups of 
flour ; 1 teaspoon of soda in milk. Stir the two together, bake in loaf or 
layers. Use the white of egg remaining from cake for boiled frosting. 

Mes. a. E. Congdon. 

Half cup of Baker's chocolate; half cup of sweet milk; yolk 1 egg. 
Stir all, then heat, not boil ; remove from stove and add a piece of butiser 
size of a walnut, and 1 teaspoon of soda. Cool somewhat and add half 
cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of sugar, vanilla, iy2 cups of flour. Use white 
of egg for frosting. Mes. Feank Starkins. 

Two cups of sugar; half cup of butter; 1 cup of milk; 31/^ cups of 
flou]' ; 2 eggs ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 2 teaspoons of cream tartar : half cup 
of grated chocolate; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether, then add eggs. Sift cream tartar with flour, dissolve soda in the 
milk and stir alternately with the flour. Add the half cup of chocolate 
and vanilla. Mrs. E. E. Woolsey. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF. 

Two cups of brown sugar ; half cup of butter ; half cup of sour milk ; 
half cup of boiling wajter; 2 eggs; one-third oake of chocolate; 1 teaspoon 
of vanilla; 1 teaspoon of soda; 1 teaspoon of baking powder; 2% cups 
of flour. Put chocolate in cup and pooir on the water and add that last 
thing.- Miss Wii.sox. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 25 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE. 
Two cups of sugar; half cup of butter; Wf cup of sour milk with 
1 teaspoon of cream; 2 eggs; 3 cups of flour; half cup of hot water; two- 
thirds cup of grated chocolate, dissolved in the hot water; 1 scant tea- 
spoon of soda; flavor with vanilla and bake in a slow oven. 

Minnie S. Willis. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
Yolks of 2 eggs ; 1 cup of sugar ; butter size of an egg ; 1 cup of thick 
buttermilk; 1 teaspoon of soda; 2 ounces of melted chocolate; pinch of 
salt; vanilla. Flour to make not very stiff batter. Bake in loaf. 

Mrs. Laura Purman. 

Two cups of brown sugar; half cup of butter; half cup of sour mUk; 
3 cups of flour; 2 eggs; 2 squares of chocolate dissolved in half cup of 
hot water ; 1 teaspoon of soda. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. G. E. Harvey. 

ECONOMY CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
Half cake of chocolate or 3 tablespoons of cocoa; half cup of milk; 
1 egg (yolk) ; mix and boil until thick; add butter size of a waLaut; 1^^ 
cups of flour ; 1 cup of sugar ; half cup of milk with 1 teaspoon of soda. 
Use white of egg for frosting. Mrs. C. J. Harvey. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
Two cups of sugar (brown if you have it) ; half cup of sour milk; 
half' cup of boiling water, in which dissolve one-third bar of Baker's 
chocolate; 2 cups of flour; 2 eggs; half teaspoon of soda, dissolved in the 
milk. Helena E. Hill. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. "^ 

•Two cups of sugar; half cup of butter; 2 eggs; half cup of thick, 
sour milk ; half cup of boiling water ; 2 Wei teaspoons of soda ; 3 cups of 
sifted flour; one-third cake of chocolate. The half cup of boiling water 
should be poured on the chocolate. Mrs. John Sabin. 

SOLID CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
Two eggs; 2 cups of sugar; half cup of butter (heaping) ; half cup 
of sour milk; 1 teaspoon of vanilla; 1 teaspoon of soda; 2 cups of flour; 
3 squares of chocolate. Grate latter into a cup, then fill with boiling 
water. ' Ella M. Jaquay. 



26 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 
Two cups of b]-own sugar; 'i eggs; half cup of butter; half cup of 
buttermilk; 2% cups of flour; balf cup of grated chocolate; half cup of 
boiling water; 1 teaspoon of soda (saleratus) ; mix chocolate and soda 
with boiling water. Icing: 3 cups 'of brown sugar; two-thirds cup of 
sweet milk; butter size of an egg. Boil until thick enough to spread. 

:\lRs. 0. H. Waltz. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup strong coffee; 1 cup of molasses; 4 cups of flour; "2 cups of 
brown sugar; 1 cup of butter; 4 eggs; 2 teaspoons of soda; 3 cups of 
raisins ; cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, to taste. Beat butter and sugar to- 
gether, add e>rgs, stir well, then mix all together. 

^fits. H. AitAXDA Wilcox. 

One cup of brown sugar : one cup of molasses ; 1 cup of cold c-oft'ee ; 
half cup of lard and butter; 3 cups of flour; 1 teaspoon of soda; 1 egg; 
1 pound chopped raisins; 2 teaspoons of cinnamon; 1 teaspoon of cloves; 
half teaspoon of salt. Mus. O. C. Emmoxs. 

One cup of sugar; 1 cup of molasses; 1 cup of butter and lard, half 
of each ; 2 cups of raisins ; 1 cup of oold, strong coffee ; 1 teaspoon of soda 
(dissolved in coffee); 2 teaspoons of ground cloves; 1 grated nutmeg. 
Mix stiff and bake in moderate oven. A good substitute for fruit cake. 

:\[r.s. H. p. (VXeil. 

COKX STAHl^H CAIsK. 

Half cup of butter ; 1 cup of powdered sugar ; 1 cup of flour : half 
cup of corn starch; half cup of sweet milk ; half teaspoon of cream tar- 
tar; one-quarter teaspoon of soda. Whites of :! eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth and added after all the ingredients have been put together; then 
the flour last. Mu.s. A. .V. Staxlkt. 

One cup of butter; 2 cups of sugar; 2 cups of flour; 1 cup corn 
starch; 1 cup of sweet milk; half teaspoon of soda; 1 teaspoon of cream 
tartar or two teaspoons of baking powder ; whites of 6 eggs. Beat butter - 
and sugar together and flour and milk alternately ; theu esa-s well beaten. '| 

Mrs. Va\ Slykk. j 



TEE USEFUL COOK BOOK 27 

One cup of sugar; half cup of butter; half cup of sweet milk; on3 
cup of sifted flour ; half cup of corn starch ; whites of 3 eggs ; 2 teaspoons 
of baking powder. Bake a long time. Flavor with almond. 

Helena E. Hill. 

COLD WATEE CAKE. 

One and ia half cups of sugar ; 2 eggs ; 1 tablespoon of butter ; 8 table- 
spoons of cold water ; 3 teaspoons of baking powder ; 2 cups of flour. 

Jennie Nobtheup. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

Three cups of dried apples; 3 cups of molasses; 1 heaped cup of 
shortening; half cup of boiling water; 4 cups of flour; 1 tablespoon 
(heaped) of soda; 1 tablespoon (heaped) cinnamon; 1 tablespoon each 
nutmeg and cloves; 3 eggs. Soak dried apples over night in enough 
water to swell them well ; chop fine and stew in molasses 2 hours. When 
cool add other ingredients. Will make 1 large eake, or 3 or 4 small ones. 

Mhs. Lauba Pueman. 

PEATHEE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar; 1 egg; 2 tablespoons of butter; half cup of milk 
or water ; 1% cups of flour ; 1 teaspoon of baking powder ; salt and flavor- 
ing. Mes. Lauea Pueman. 

FIG CAKE. 

One cup of sugar; 1 cup of flour, sifted; half cup of butter; half 
cup of milk; half cup of corn starch; 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
mixed with the flour ; whites of 4 eggs well beaten, stirred in last. B'ake 
in 3 layers. Pilling : % pound figs, chopped fine ; 1 cup of sugar ; 5 
tablespoons of cold water. Bring the water and sugar to a boil, and no 
more, to make a syrup. When cool pour over the figs; this will make 2 
layers of figs and 3 layers of cake. Mbs. Floeence Phillips. 

One cup of butter; 2 cups of soft white sugar; 1 cup of sweet milk; 
3 cups of flour; 2 teaspoons of baking powder; 1 teaspoon of flavoring; 
whites of 5 eggs. Icing: Whites of 2 eggs, stiffened with pulverized 
sugar. Chop fine 10 cents worth of figs and stir in white of eggs and 
spread on eake between layers. Flossie Nelson. 



28 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

Two eggs; 2 cups of sugar; 1 cup ol butter ; 1 cup of sweet milk; 
3 cups of flour; 3 teaspoons of baking powder; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 
Eilling: 1 pound figs; 1 cup of sweet milk; 1 cup of sugar; cook slowly 
until it thickens, then spread on cake. Mks. E. A. Huddle. 

PARMER'S FRUIT CAKE. 
Soak 3 cups of dried apples in warm water over night; chop slightly 
in the morning. Simmer 3 hours in 3 cups of molasses; add 2 eggs; 1 
cup of sugar; 1 cup of sweet milk; three-quarters cup of butter; ly^ 
teaspoons of soda; spices to taste; flour enough to make a rather stiff 
batter; 1 cup of raisins. Flossie Nelson. 

FEUIT CAKE. 
One cup of butter ; 4 eggs ; 3 cups of sugar ; 1 cup of milk ; 3 cups of 
flour; 1 teaspoon of cream tartar; half of soda; 3 teaspoons of vaniUa; 3 
tablespoons of cinnamon, same of cloves; three-four ''is cup of molasses; 
one-fourth teaspoon of mace ; 1^/^ cups of raisins ; 3 cups of currants ; half 
pound citron. Cream butter and sugar, add the yolks of eggs well beaten, 
then the milk, flour and cream tartar and soda, molass^, spices, whites 
of eggs, and lastly ttie fruit chopped and floured. 

Maeion E. Clapp. 

GOOD WHITE CAKE. 
Two cups of sugar ; 1 cup of butter ; 3 cups of flour ; 1 cup of corn 
starch; whites of 7 eggs; 1 cup of milk; 2 teaspoons of baking powder. 
Beat sugar and butter together, then add milk ; mix baking powder, corn 
starch and flour together ; beat eggs and put in last. 

Mrs. E. C. Buck. 

FRUIT CAKE WITHOUT EG-GS. 
Two cups of brown sugar; 1 cup of butter; 3 cups of raisins; 1 cup 
of molasses; 3 cups of buttermilk; 3 teaspoons of soda; 3 teaspoons of 
cloves ; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon ; 1 nutmeg ; 4^^ cups of flour. 

Mrs. E. C. Buck. 

EGOLESS CAKE— A GOOD, CHEAP FEUIT CAKE. 
One and a half cups of sugar, brown preferred; 1 cup of sour milk; 
half cup of butter, or part lard ; 3 level cups of flour ; 1 level teaspoon of 
ealeratus; half teaspoon each of cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon; 1 tea- 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 39 

spoon of lemon extract; 1 cup of seeded raisins, chopped and floured, 
added last; 1 cup of seedless raisins or currants floured improTes the cake, 
biit is not necessary. Beat well before adding raisins. Bake in shallow 
pans, slowly, about one hour. Use large cup for measuring. Always beat 
butter and sugar together first, then add spice, niilk, soda, flour and 
raisins. This makes 1 large or 3 small oakes. 

Mes. Maeian Carpenter. 

SOUTH CAEOLINA FEUIT CAKE. 

One pound sugar; 1 pound butter ; Ipound flour; 13 eggs; 1 tea- 
spoon cream tartar; 1 teaspoon soda. Cream sugar and yolks together, 
then add- butter, and cream thoroughly. Beat whites stiff. Gradually 
add flour and whites of eggs. Then add 3 pounds raisins; 1 pound citron; 
1 pound currants, and any other fruit or nuts desired. 

Minnie S. Willis. 

GIlsrGBEBREAD. 

Three-fourths cup of molasses; lard size of an egg put in a cup, and 
the cup filled with boiling water; 2 tablespoons of brown sugar; 1 tea- 
spoon each of soda, cinnamon, ginger and salt ; 1% cups of flour. 

Mrs. J. E. Updike. 

One cup of brown sugar and 1 teaspoon of butter stirred to a cream ; 

- add 1 cup of New Orleans molasses and mix well ; 1 cup of sour milk ; 1 

"teaspoon of soda, dissolved in a little sour milk. Mix all together and 

stir in 314 cups of flour. G-inger and spice to taste. Bake in 1 large loaf 

1 hour, or 3 small loaves half an hour. Mrs. L. M. H. 

GINGEE CAKE. 

One-third cup of- sugar; two-thirds cup of molasses; half cup of 
shortening; 1 egg; 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in half cup of sour but- 
termilk; 1 teaspoon of ginger; pinch of salt; 2 cups of flour. 

Mrs. Hanson Smith. 

SOFT GINGEE CAKE. 

One cup of molasses; 1 cup of sour milk; 1 cup of shortening; 3 
teaspoons of soda; 1 tablespoon of ginger; 3 or 3 eggs. Add sufficient 

flour to make quite stiff. Bake slowly. Alice M. Stevens. 



30 THE USEFUL GOOK BOOK 

One egg; half cup of brown sugar; 1 cup of jiiolas.ses; 1 cup of sour 
milk; half cup of butter or lard; 1 teaspoon of baking powder; 1 tea- 
spoon of soda ; 1 teaspoon each of ginger and cinnamon. Better baked in 
2 tins. Make about as thick as layer cake. -ATrs. G. M. Pashlet. 

EGCtLESS GINGEK-BEEAI). 

One cup of molasses; 1 cup of sugar; 1 cup of sour milk; half cup of 

butter; nearly 4 cups of flour; 1 teaspoon each of ginger and cinnamon; 

1 heaping teaspoon of saleratus, dissolved in a little cold water and added 

last; 1 egg improves it. Raisins and other fruit may be added if desired. 

Mrs. McWhoeter. 

SOFT GINGER-BREAD. 
One cup of New Orleans rmolasses; 1 cup of brown sugar; 1 cup of 
butter and lard mixed; half cup of sour milk; -2 eggs: ■> teaspoons of 
soda, dissolved in a little hot water ; 1 teaspoon of ginger ; 1 teaspoon of 
cinnamon ; half teaspoon of cloves; 3 cups of sifted flour. 

Mrs. H. M. Dyer. 

SPOXGE GINGER CAKE. 
Half cup of sugar; 1 cup each of butter, molasses and boiling water; 

1 egg; 3 teaspoons of soda; 3 cups of sifted flour ; a little salt; 1 teaspoon 
of cinnamon; 1 teaspoon of ginger; half teaspoon of cloves. Pour boil- 
ing water on soda, mix thoroughly and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Mrs. I. A. Brown. 

GOLD LOAF. 
Yolks of 8 eggs ; 1 cup of granulated sugar ; half cup of butter ; half 
cup of sweet milk; 1% cups of flour; 2 teaspoons of baking powder. Sift, 
measure and set aside the flour with baking powder added according to 
rule. Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, beat TOlks to a very stiff frotli 
and stir through thoroughly, add milk, then flour, and stir very hard. 
Flavor to taste, put in slow oven at once. Will bake in "25 to -lo minutes. 

Jennie Xoutiirup. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 
Two cups of sugar; 1 cup of sweet milk; IV4 cups of butter; 3 eggs; 

2 teaspoons of baking powder; 3 cups of flour; cup of hickory-nuts, 
chopped fine. Mrs. A. Iv flrrDDi.E. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 31 

Two cups of sugar; 1 cup of butter; 1 cup of milk; 3 eggs; 3 cups 
of nuts ; 4 cups of flour ; 2 teaspoons of soda, a little nutmeg and salt. 

Mrs. H. T. H. 

One cup of sugar; half cup of butter; 'i eggs; half cup of milk; 1 
teaspoon of baking powder ; 3 cups of flour ; heaping tumbler of hickory 
nuts. Makes a medium sized bar. Junnie Noetheup. 

MAEBLE CAKE. 

White — White of one egg; half cup of sugar; half cup of butter; 
half cup of sweet milk; 1 cup of flour; 1 teaspoon of baking powder; 
flavor to suit taste. 

Daek — Yolk 1 egg; half cup of molasses; half cup of butter; half 
cup of scalding water ; 1 1-3 cups of flour ; half spoon of soda ; spice to 
taste. Mes. G. M. Pashley. 

EED AND WHITE MAEBLE CAKE. 
One cup of sugar; one-third cup of butter; one- third cup of sour 
milk; whites of 4 eggs; 1 1-3 cups of flour; 3 teaspoons of baking powder, 
flavoring. Eed part same, substituting red sugar for white. 

Mrs. Lauea Purman. 

MAEBLE CAKE. 

White — One cup of sugar; half cup sweet milk; butter size small 
*gg> 1% cups of flour; 2 level teaspoons of baking powder sifted in flour; 
whites 3 eggs; lemon flavoring. Stir butter and sugar to a cream in 
earthen dish; add milk carefully,- then extract, then flour until smooth, 
and add- well beaten whites last. 

Daek — Yolks 3 eggs ; butter size of an egg ; half cup of sour milk ; 
scant half teaspoon of soda; even teaspoon cinnamon; half teaspoon 
cloves; 1 full cup flour; 1 full cup brown sugar; 1 full cup raisins, 
chopped. Stir butter and sugar to a cream, beat yolks until they won't 
string, add to butter and sugar, next spices, then milk with soda in it. 
Stir thoroughly, add flour and stir until smooth; lastly the raisins, 
floured. Bake in slow oven 45 minutes. ilES. Laura Furman. 

Light — One cup of white sugar ; half cup of water ; half cup of sour 
cream ; whites of 4 eggs ; 1 teaspoon of cream of tartar ; half teaspoon of 
soda; 1% cups of flour. 



32 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

Daek — One cup of brown sugar ; half cup mjola^es ; half cup of but- 
ter; half cup of eour cream; yolkis of 4 eggs; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon; 
half teaspoon of cloves; one-quanter teaspoon of black pepper; 1 teaspoon 
of soda; 2i^ cups of flour. Mes. N. B. Deake. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 
One cup of molasses ; half cup of sugar ; half cup of lard ; one-quarter 
teaspoon of ginger ; half teaspoon of cinnamon ; 2 teaspoons of soda, dis- 
solved in 1 cup of hot water; 2% cups of flour. 

Mes. W. H. Beyan. 

MARIAN'S MOLASSES CAKE. 
One heaping tablespoon of lard; 1 cup of best molasses; 1 cup of 
sugar (brown or white) ; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon; 1 teaspoon of cloves 
(or ginger if preferred) ; half teaspoon of salt; 1 egg. Beat all together 
until smooth, then stir in ail the flour you can until quite stiff. Then 
add 1 heaping teaspoon of saleratus dissolved in 1 cup of boiling water. 
Beat until light, bake in shallow pan (granite dripper preferred). Bake 
in slow oven about half hour. Mes. Maeian Caepenteh. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 
Half cup of sugar ; half cup of molasses ; 1 cup of sour milk ; 1 tear 
spoon of soda; 1 teaspoon of bakiag powder; 1 teaspoon each of allspice, 
cloves and cinnamon ; half cup of chopped raisins ; 2 scant cups of flour. 

Mes. M. a. Grant. 

LEMON" MOLASSES CAKE. ' 
One cup of brown sugar ; 1 cup of molasses ; 1 cup of butteirmilk ; 1 
large lemon, grated. Use pulp and rind. One teaspoon of soda ; 1 tea- 
spoon of ginger; half cup of butter; 1 egg. Miss Willson. 

ONE-EOG CAKE. 
One cup of butter ; ly^ cups of sugar ; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 1 egg ; 3 
cups of flour ; 1% teaspoons of baking powder ; 1 cup of chopped raisins. 

Mrs. -Tared Chaddock. 

PLAIN CAKE. 
One egg; one-fourth cup of butter; three-fourths cup of milk; 2 
cups of flour; 1 cup of sugar; 2 even teaspoons of baking powder. 
Flavor with orange and lemon, put all together and beat well. 

Jennie Northrup. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 33 

PORK CAKE. 
Mix 2 cups of sugar ; 1 cup of molasses ; 1 cup of sour milk with 4 
eggs ; 1 nutmeg, ground ; 1 'tablespoon of cinnamon ; 1 teaspoon of soda. 
Minoe 1 pound of -f resli pork ; dnst 1 pound of raisins with flour. Mix 
all together and bake slowly. Will keep six months. No flour needed. 

Mrs. H. J. Webber. 

POOR MAN'S CAKE. 
One cup of sugar ; half cup of butter ; 1 cup of apple sauce ; 2 cups 
of flour; 1 teaspoon of soda; 1 cup of raisins. Spice to taste. Bake in 
loaf. Mrs. Geo. A. Burling. 

CAROLINA POrNB CAKE. 
One pound of sugar ; 1 pound of butter ; 1 pound of flour ; 12 eggs, - 
or 1 pound ; 1 teaspoon cream tartar ; half teaspoon of soda. Cream sugar 
and yolks together, tihen add butter, cream thoroughly. Beat the whites 
stiff, gradually add flour and whites of eggs. Minnie S. Willis. 

RASPBERRY CAKE. 
One cup of sugar; half cup of butter; 1^ cups of flour; 1 cup of 
raspberry jam ; 3 eggs ; 3 tablespoons of sour milk ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 1 
teaspoon of cinnamon; 1 teaspoon of nutmeg. Add jam last. Bake in 
layers, put together with frosting. Minnie S. Willis. 

"Behold there was a cake baken." — I. Kings, 19 :6. 
SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, Judges, 5 :25 ; 2 cups of sugar, Jeremiah, 6 :20 ; 
3y2 cups of flour, I. Kings, 4:22; 2 cups of raisins, I. Samuel, 30:12; 
2 cups of figs, I. Samuel, 30 :12 ; 1 cup of almonds. Genesis, 43 :11 ; 1 cup 
of water. Genesis, 24:20 and 26; 6 eggs, Isaiah, 10:14; a little salt, 
Leviticus, 2:13; 1 large spoon of honey, Exodus, 16:31. Spices to taste, 
I. Kings, 10 :10. 

Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys, first clause of Prov- 
erbs, 23 :14, and you will have a good cake. This quantity makes two 
large sized cakes. Mrs. David Wallace. 

SILVER CAKE. 
One cup of sugar; half cup of butter; cream butter and sugar to- 
gether; half cup of sweet milk; 1% cups of flour; 2 teaspoonfuls of bak- 



34 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

ing powder sifted with the flour ; whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff and put in 
last; 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Bake quickly, but do not burn. 

Mes. MoWhoeter. 



SNOW CAKE. 
One cup white coffee sugar; half cup of butter, not melted; cream 
butter and sugar together; half cup of sweet milk; 1 cup of flour; half 
cup of corn starch; 2 teaspoons of baking powder; whites of 4 eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth and put in last; lemon flavoring. 

Mrs. MoWhortee. 

SOUE CEBAM CAKE. 
One cup of sugar ; half cup of sour cream ; V/^ cups of flour ; half 
cup of butter; 1 cup of raisins, scalded; 3 eggs; half teaspoon of soda; 
cinnamon, vaniUa and lemon. Jennie Noetheup. 

SPANISH CAKE. 
Cream half cup of butter; add gradually 1^^ cups of light brown 
sugar; 3 eggs well beaten; half cup of milk; 1% cups of flour; 3 tea- 
spoons of baking powder sifted in flour; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon; half 
teaspoon each of oloves and mace. Turn mixture in shallow baking tin 
and sprinkle top with one-quarter cup of chopped nuts or currants. 
Dredge slightly over top with powdered sugar. Bake slowly. 

Mes. McKay. 
SPICE CAKE. 
One small cup of butter; 1^^ cups of sugar; 1 cup of sour milk; 1 
teaspoon of soda; 1% tablespoon cinnamon; 1 teaspoon of cloves; 1 cup 
of raisins ; 2 eggs ; 21/^ cups of flour. Mrs. Laura Fdeman. 

SPICE CAKE WITHOUT EQGS. 
One cup of brown sugar ; half cup of butter ; 1 cup of sour milk ; 1 
teaspoon of soda; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon; 1 nutmeg, grated; one-quarter 
teaspoon of cloves; 2 cups of flour, measured before sifting; 1 cup of 
chopped raisins; 1 cup of currants; half cup of chopped citron; 1 large 
tablespoon of flour to flour the fruit thoroughly. Cream butter and 
sugar and then add the spices, sour milk and soda, then the flour. Add 
the floured fruit last. Line the tin with greased paper, and bake in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Katherine D. Clapp. 



THE USEFUL COOK. BOOK 35 



■SPONGE CAKE. 



Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately ; 1 cup of sugar ; 3 tea- 
spoons of baking powder; 1 teaspoon of lemon; 1 cup of flour. 

Mrs. C. M. Doyle. 



CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

One cup of sugar ; half cup of butter ; 3 cups of flour well sifted with 
1 level teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon and nutmeg ; 1 cup of sour milk ; 
1 cup of seeded raisin, well dredged with flour.- Bake in moderate oven 
in large square bread tin. Mrs. Albert Jacob^. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs beaten separately; 1 cup of sugar; 3 tablespoons of boil- 
ing water; 1 even teaspoon oi baking powder; 1 teacup of flour; salt; 
flavoring. Cream yolte and sugar together, then add boiling water, then 
whites of eggs and flavoring and flour last. Don't stir much after flour 
is in. Mrs. Laura Purman. 

EASY SPONGE CAKE. 

Two eggs ; 1 cup of sugar ; 8 tablespoons of water ; 1 rounded cup of 
flour; salt; flavoring; 3 heaping teaspoons of baking powder. Beat eggs 
and sugar thoroughly, then add water; mix flour and baking powder 
before adding, then beat thoroughly ; bake in quick oven. 

Poena L. Shepard. 

SPONGE CAKE. 
One cup of sugar ; 1 cup of flour ; 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon of baking pow- 
der; one-third cup of boiling water, put in Just before putting in the 
oven. Jennie Northrup. 

Two eggs and 1 small cup of sugar beaten together ; 5 tablespoons of 
boiling water; 1 cup of flour; 3 teaspoons of baking powder; flavor. 

Mrs. Frank Starkins. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 
Whites of 8 eggs ; 3 cups of sugar ; 3 cups of flour ; half cup of but- 
ter; three-fourths cup of sweet milk; 3 heaping teaspoons of baking 



36 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

powder. Cream butter and sugar, add milk, flour ^and baking powder and 
lastly fold in whites of eggs. Tliis quantity makes 3 square pans of cake. 
Ice cut in squares, and put an English walnut on each square. 

Mks. C. M. Doyle. 

THKBE-EGG CAKE. 
One aid a half cups of sugar; half cup of butter; whites of 6 eggs or 
3 whole eggs; 1 cup of milk; 3^^ cups of flour; 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder ; salt and flavoring. Bake in layers or loaf. 

Mrs. Laura Furman. 

SUEPEISE CAKE. 
One cup of sugar; ha;lf a eup of butter; mix well together; add 1 
egg; stir well; two-thirds eup of sweet milk; 2 cups of flour; 2 teaspoons 
of baking powder sifted in flour. Flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. If sour 
milk is used put in a teaspoon rounded full of soda. It is best when 
newly made. , ilRS. H. Amanda Wilcox. 

TAYLOE CAKE. 
One and a half cups of sugar ; half cup of butter ; 3% cups of flour ; 
1 cup of sour milk; 1 cup of chopped nuts; 1 teaspoon of soda; 1 tea- 
spoon of spices. Mrs. L. H. Webbee. 

WHITE CAKE. 
One cup of sugar ; one-third cup of butter ; cream the butter and 
sugar ; 2y2 cups of flour ; 2 teaspoons of baking powder ; whites of 3 eggs, 
beaten to a froth ; two-thirds cup of sweet milk ; flavor with lemon. Beat 
half an hour. Ella 'SI. Jaquat. 

Two cups of sugar; half cup of butter; 1 cup of sweet milk. Cream 
butter and sugar together with the hands, then add the milk, after which 
add 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, whites of 3 eggs beaten 
to a froth. Mrs. A. ,T. Coox. 

WHITE PUFF CAKE. 
Whites of 4 eggs ; 3 cups of sugar ; half cup of butter ; 1 cup of sweet 
milk; 3 teaspoons of baking powder; 3 cups of flour; a little salt; flavor 
to taste. Cream butter and sugar^add milk, then flour with baking pow- 
der, whites of eggs well beaten, last. Half of this recipe makes a good 
sized cake. Mrs. James Hallam. 



THE USEFUL GOOK BOOK 37 

CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS. 



CEEAM FOR CAKE. 
One cup of sweet cream, whipped; 3 tablespoons of sugar; half cup 
of eocoanut stiri^ in lightly. Spread between layers, ice top and sprin- 
kle with eocoanut. Mrs. John Sabin. 

CEEAM. 
One egg and half cup of sugar beaten together; one-fourth cup of 
flour wet with milk, stirred with egg and sugar into half pint of boiling 
milk. Cook until it thickens. Mrs. W. H. Bryan. 

Beat 1 egg with a tablespoonful of sugar ; half teaspoon of lemon ex- 
tract; add slowly half cup of boiling milk in which a heaping teaspoon 
of flour has been cooked. Boil over the tea kettle a few minutes, stirring 
constantly. When cool spread between thfe layers. 

Mrs. Hattie Carpenter. 

COCOANUT. 
One cup of eocoanut; 1 cup of sugar; 3 eggs; grated rind and juice 
of 1 orange or lemon. Put together and cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Mrs. John Sarin. 

COCOANUT CEEAM POE PILLING. 

One cup of milk; half cup of eocoanut; 1 cup of sugar; small lump 
of butter. Boil all together. When it comes to the boiling point put in 
1 tablespoon of corn starch, dissolved in a little cold water. Let all come 
to a boil. When nearly cold, beat in 1 egg. Make the cake layers thin. 

H. A. C. 

CHOCOLATE PILLIKG (POE CAKE). 
Pive tablespoons of grated chocolate; enough cream or milk to wet 
it; 1 cup of sugar; 1 egg, beaten; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Stir the ingre- 
dients over fire until thoroughly mixed. Add flavoring after removing 
from fire. Mrs. H. P. O'ISTeil. 

One cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of chocolate; 5 tablespoonfuls 
of sweet mUk. Place on stove and stir until it boils for three minutes; 
remove from stove and stir until cool enough to spread. 

Mrs. Hattie Carpenter. 



38 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

FIG FILLING FOE CAKE. 
Half a pound figs; 1 cup of sugar; 1 cup of water. Chop figs and 
boil them down, adding part of grated rind and juice of an orange. This 
mixture can be put away for future use. Alice M. Stevens. 

LEMON FILLING FOE CAKE. 
One cup of sugar; 1 egg; 1 lemon juice and rind grated; piece of 
butter half as large as an egg. Beat together and set in kettle of hot 
water, stirring until it thickens. Ella M. Jaquat. 

MAPLE SUGAE FEOSTING. 
One and a half cups of maple sugar ; 1 cup sweet cream ; 1 tablespoon 
of butter. Boil gently about 30 minutes, remove from fire, and stir until 
cool. Must have cream for maple sugar. Mes. H. L. Conlee. 

CAEAMBL. 
Two cups light brown sugar; 1 coifee cup cream; butter the size of 
an egg. Cook until it thickens, then beat until cool enough te spread. 

LEMON. 
Juice of 1 lemon; 1 egg; 1 cup of granulated sugar. Beat together, 
set in pan of water, and cook until thick. Cool before using. 

CAKE FEOSTING. 
Beat together the juice of 1 lemon and powdered sugar; 1 cup of 
granulated sugar; 7 tablespoons milk. Boil until it threads; stir until 
cool. Flavoring as desired. Mes. H. L. Conlee. 

MAPLE SUGAE FEOSTING. 
One cup of maple sugar ; the beaten white of 1 egg. Boil the syrup 
until it is a little more than "hairs." When partly cool beat in the stiff 
white of the egg. Mes. H. Wade Hibbaed. 

FILLING FOE CAKE. 
One scant cup of strawberry or pineapple juice ; 1 cup of granulated 
sugar ; white of 1 egg. Put all together and beat half an hour or until it 
thickens. Mes. 0. C. Emmons. 



CANDIES. 



STUFFED DATES. 
If the brown variety, cover with quite warm water; use hot for black 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 39 

ones. Let them stand about five minutes ; drain thoroughly, remove me 
pit, insert one-fourth of the meat of an English walnut, press together, 
roll in granulated sugar. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE FUDGE 
Two cups of sugar ; 1 cup of milk ; small piece of butter ; 3 heaping 
teaspoons of cocoa ; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Boil until it forms a soft ball 
in water. Add nuts if desired. Beat until it cracks or grains. Pour on 
buttered dish to cool. Eva M. Harker. 

PAIEY CEBAMS. 
Four cups light brown sugar with 1 cup of water ; boil until it hairs, 
then cool five minutes. Beat the whites of 2 eggs very stiff ; beat all to- 
gether slowly, continue beating until nearly cold, then drop by teaspoon- 
fuls over English walnuts (h^lf ) placed about an inch apart on an oiled 
paper. Mrs. H. J. Webber. 

FONIDANT. 
Two cups of granulated sugar; 1 cup of water; boil until it maizes a 
soft ball in fingers. Pour on a marble slab and work with a wooden 
potato masher in a rotary motion until it whitens ; then scrape off with a 
knife and make in a loaf. Work with fingers until smooth and creamy. 

Mrs. H. J. M^EBBKK. 

PEPPEEMINT CEEAMS. 
Dissolve two cups of granulated sugar in half cup of water. As soon 
as the sugar is melted remove the spoon and boil syrup 8 minutes. Take 
from fire, add 7 drops of oil of peppermint and beat vigorously until the 
syrup is thoroughly creamed. Drop by spoonfuls on waxed paper. 

Mrs. E. C. Carpknter. 

SMITH COLLEGE PUDGE. 
One-quarter cake Baker's chocolate; 1% cups of sugar; butter size of 
an egg; half cup of milk; 1 tablespoon of vanilla. Let come to a boil, 
stirring constantly. Gather in water. iVdd vanilla after removing from 
stove and beat it until cool enough to pour into pans. 

Edith A. Thurlow. 

PEANUT CANDY. 
One cup of fondant; half cup of peanut butter. Mix thoroughly 
and form in balls. Mrs. H. J. Webber. 



40 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

SPANISH PIFOCHE. 
Two even cups of brown sugar ; half eup of milk ; 1 pound English 
walnuts; 1 tablespoon of Tanilla; 1 tablespoon of butter. Stir every 
second until granulated (-about 30 minutes). Gather in water. After 
taking from stove 'add nuts and beat vigorously. Pour in buttered pans, 
mark in squares before cool. Edith M. Thuelow. 



CANNING, PRESERVING, PICKUNG. 



In making jelly do not attempt to boil too large a quantity of the 
juic-e at one time. Better to keep three or four vessels going, containing 
not more than two or three c-upfuls of Juice before the sugar is added. 

G. S. M. 

CANNED PLUMS. 
Wash plums and pierce skins with silver fork. Pack in jars, set in 
steamrr (or in wash boiler, surrounding cans witfti cold water), and cook 
until tender. Eemove jars and pour off juice, fill up jars, using some of 
jars already cooked or having cooked fruit ready in stew-pan. Have 
ready a rather heavy syrup boiling hot, pour over cooked fruit and seal. 
Then strain the poured off juice and make into jelly the usual way. This 
takes out of canned plums the acid taste so much complained of and gives 
you the jelly as clear gain. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

PEESEKVEDPEAES (GINGBEED.) 
Four pounds of peai^; 1 ounce white ginjjci- root: 1 pint of water; 
juice and grated rind of 2 lemons ; 5 pounds of sugar. Dissolve sugar in 
water, add lemons, then ginger broken in bits, then pears cut into dice. 
Cook till a rich red, seal in glass jars or put into jelly glassy and seal 
with parafSne. Mrs. C. A. Martin. , 

PEESEEVED ELDEEBEEEIES. 
To 7 -pounds of berries add 3 pounds light brown sugar; 1 teacup of 
vinegar. Boil down to proper thickness (3 hours) . Put in crock and on 
top of berries put a hrown paper, tight, wet well with vinegar. 

Mrs. Hanson Smith. 

PLUM CATSUP. 
Boil the plums with 1 pint of water until soft enough to reduce to a 



THE U8EFUL COOK BOOK 41 

pulp. Press through a colendar. Weigh the pulp, and to every 5 lbs. 
allow 3 lbs. brown sugar, half a pint of cider vinegar, 1 level teaspoon 
■each of ground cloves and cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of salt. Boil and stir 
until it becomes thick and ridh. Seal boiling hot. 

Mrs. Hanson Smith. 

PLUM JAM. 
Seven lbs. of. blue Damson plums; 3 lbs. of white sugar; 3 lbs. of 
raisins : 2 oranges, chopped or grated ; peel and pulp. Cook until thick. 

Mrs. H. L. Conlee. 

ORANGE MAEMALADE. 
Nine sweet oranges; 3 Seville oranges. Method: Cut the oranges 
very fine, remove seeds. To every pound of fruit put three pints of water ; 
allow to stand all night. First day boil until tender ; second day, repeat ; 
third day, boil with sugar. To every pint of fruit put in I14 lbs. of 
sugar. Mrs. A. B. Cotton. 

CEAB-APPLB JELLY. 
Boil the fruit in enough water to cover it, until perfectly soft, then 
pour in a coarse bag and let it drip until it ceases. Then press it a little 
to get all the juice. Allow 1 lb. of sugar to each pint of Juice thus ob- 
tained. Boil juice 30 minutes before adding sugar, heat the sugar in 
the oven, then add it to the Juice and boil 5 minutes. Pour into 
tumblers. Mrs. C. W. Scott. 

CONSERVE. 

Five lbs. fruit, any kind; 3 lbs. of sugar; 1 lb. raisins; 5 oranges, cut 
in small pieces; half lb. English walnuts. Mrs. W. H. Bryan. 

CURRANT CONSERVE. 
Seven lbs. currants; 5 oranges, rind of three, chopped fine; 8 lbs,, 
raisins chopped; three-quarters lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of fruit. 

Mrs. M. a. Grant. 

CRANBERRY JELLY OR CONSERVE. 
Peel the rind from 5 large oranges; boil it until tender, changing 
the water 3 or 3 times to remove bitterness. Chop tlje rind with 3 lbs. 
of seeded raisins. Put the chopped fruit with the rind and juice of the ^ 



48 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

oranges; 5 lbs. sugar, 5 lbs. cranberries (which have been coarsely 
chopped), into a preserving kettle and simmer slowly until reduced to a 
thick jam. Seal in small cans or glass cups. 

Mrs. E. C. Carpenter. 

SPICED GEAPBS. 

Five lbs. of fruit; 4 lbs. of sugar; 1 pint of vinegar; 1 teaspoon each 
of cloves, allspice, cinnamon, a little pepper. Cook slowly 3 or 4 houre. 

Mes. W. H. Betan. 

After packing cucumbers in pickle, cover them with leaves from 
grape vine, and they will retain more of their color. 

CUCUMBBE PICKLES. 
One gallon of vinegar; 1 cup of brown sugar; half a cup of salt; 3 
tablespoons of ground mustard ; 1 cup of grated horse-radish. Pour boil- 
ing water over pickles, let stand until cold, then wipe pickles dry with 
cloth, and pour the preparation over them. C. E. Moore. 

CUCUMBEE PICKLES. 
One gallon good vinegar ; 1 cup each of salt and sugar ; half a cup of 
whole white mustard seed ; 5c. worth mixed spices, use about half ; wash 
cucumbers and drop in vinegar as gathered. Put horse-radish on top of 
jars or cans. Not good early in season. About 2 gallons pickles. 

Mrs. Peank Staekins. 

One cup of sugar; 1 scant cup of salt; 1 gallon of vinegar; 1 cup or 
more chopped horse-radish ; 2 tablespoons of mustard. Pour over pickles. 

:\rES. W. H. Bryan. 

One gallon vinegar; 1 cup of salt; 1 cup of brown sugar; half a cup 
of ground mustard; half a cup of mustard seed; half a cup of horse- 
radish; half a cup of mixed spices. :\Ies. W. L. Dean. 

One cup of sugar; half a cup of ground mustai-d; half a cup of salt; 
all mixed with a little cold vinegar; 1 cup of ground horse-radish; 1 
gallon of vinegar; put all together cold. Wash and dry pickles and put 
in vinegar with a, plate on top. More pickles can be added at any time. 
These are fine. Mrs. Sarah Gray. 



THE USEFUL OOOK BOOK 43 

Wash cucumbers, dry and put in jar ; 3 quarts of vinegar ; half a cup 
of mustard seed; half a cup of ground mustard wet with vinegar; 3 
tablespoons of salt. Mix well and then turn over the pickles. 

Mks. 0. C. Emmons. 

COLD CUCUMBBE PICKLES. 

For a 3 gallon jar take 1 teacup of salt; 1 teacup of grated horse- 
radish; 3 teacups of sugar; enough vinegar to cover the pickles. Stir 
all together and pour over the pickles. Cover with horse-radish leaves. 

Mes. Maey Ceoss. 

CUCUMBBE PICKLES. 
Wash cucumbers and put in layers in jar, sprinkling well each layer 
with salt. When you have the required amount pour off the liquor and 
make new one as follows: Two quarts of water; 1 quart of salt; 1 quart 
of vinegar. Make enough of this proportion to cover pickles well, then 
cover with cloth and plate, with a stone on top. Put a few small pieces 
of horse-radish root in Jiar and no scum will form. C. E. Mooee. 

CUCUMBBES, PICKLED COLD. 

Wash cucumbers and pack in jars. To 1 gallon vinegar add half a 

cup of salt, 3 small tablespoons powdered alum and a dash of mixed 

spices. Pour vinegar over cucumbers and seal cold. Will also keep if 

packed in crocks, covered with grape or horse-radish leaves, and weighted. 

Mes. C. a. Maetin. 

FEENCH PICKLES. 
Two gallons vinegar; half lb. ground mustard; 1 lb. white mustard 
seed; 1 lb. black mustard seed; quarter lb. whole cloves; quarter lb. all- 
spice; quarter lb. turmeric; quarter lb. celery seed; 3 oz. mace; half lb. 
ginger root; 5 lbs. brown sugar; half oz. cayenne pepper. Wash pickles 
and let stand in salt water 34 hours, then scald in same water, drain and 
put in cold vinegar, to which spices, etc., have been added. 

C. E. Mooee. 

Pour quarts of sliced tomatoes'; 4 quarts of sliced cucumbers ; 1 quart 
of sliced onions. Sprinkle with salt, let stand over night, drain through 
sieve and add 1 oz. celery seed; half oz. allspice (whole) ; 1 teacup of 
white mustard seed;. half a cup of whole black pepper; 1 tablespoon of 



44 TEE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

turmeric; 2 tablespoons of ground mustard; 2 quarts of vinegar; 1 lb. 
brown sugar. Put sugar, ground mustard and turmeric in vinegar and 
heat boiling hot and pour on the pickles. Flossie Nelson. 

GEEEN TOMATO PICKLES. 
Two gallons tomatoes; 12 onions; 6 red peppers; 2 tabl^pooniuls of 
salt ; 2 quarts vinegar ; 1 quart of sugar ; 2 tablespoonf uls each of gronnd 
mustard and black pepper; 1 tablespoonful each of allspice and cloves. 
Mix all together and stew until tender, stirring often. Put up in glass 
jars. Mrs. Hattie Cakpentee. 

BOEDEAU SAUCE. 
Two gallons of sliced cabbage; 1 gallon of green tomatoes; 1 dozen 
of chopped onions; 1 gallon of vinegar; 1 oz. of celery seed; 1 oz. of 
ground ginger; half lb. of white mustard seed; 3 lbs. of sugar; half a pint 
of salt. Put salt on cabbage, tomatoes and onions after chopping; let 
stand over night, drain, add other ingredients and boil half an hour. 

J\lRS. if. L. Van De Bogaet. 

PICCALILLY PICKLE. 
One hard head cabbage, chopped fine; half a peck green tomatoes, 
chopped fine; two-thirds cup of salt. Let stand over night. Morning, 
scald in their own_ juice; press dry in colander, or drain through a bag. 
Then take 6 large onions and 3 small red peppers, chopped. Heat 2 
quarts of vinegar; half lb. mixed spices tied in small bags; 4 lbs. brown 
sugar; one-quarter lb. white whole mustard seed. Mix with cabbage, 
etc., scald until almost boiling. Makes about 1% gallons pickle. 

Mrs. F. Starkins. 

CHOW-CHOW. 
Half a bushel green tomatoes, chopped line; 1 pint of salt sprinkled 
over same; pour boiling water over tomatoes and let stand over night. 
Drain morning and mix with other finely chopped ingredients, spice and 
cover with vinegar and boil slowly. One dozen green peppers, remove 
seeds; 1 pint of ground hoi-se-radish ; 1 pint of salt; 2 lbs. sugar; 1 table- 
spoon each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice, mustard seed and celery seed. 

Mrs. W. H .Bryan. 

MIXED PICKLES. 
One quart of cucumbers, sliced not too thin; 1 large onion, sliced: 



TILE USEFUL COOK BOOK 45 

1 tablespoon of salt. Let stand over night, then drain and add 1 pint of 
vinegaj; 1 scant cup of sugar; 1 tablespoon of mixed spices. Boil 5 min- 
utes ; put in can and seal. This quantity makes 1 quart. 

Mrs. Lucian Turner. 

MIXED MUSTAED PICKLES. 

One quart small cucumbers ; 1 quart large cucumbers ; 1 quart small 
onions; 1 large cauliflower; 2 quarts small tomatoes. Make brine as 
follows : 4 quarts of water to 1 pint of salt, in which soak the pickles 24 
hours, then drain. For paste use 1 cup of flour; 6 tablespoons of ground 
mustard; cold vinegar enough to make smooth paste. Then add 1 cup 
of sugar and enough cold vinegar to make two quarts. Let boil until it 
thickens, stii-ring all the time, add vegetables and cook mixture until it 
boils. If small tomatoes or onions are not available, use larger ones 
sliced. The pickles are good if cucumbers be left out, or ripe cucumbers 
can be used in place of green ones. Mrs. Mart Cross. 

MUSTAED PICKLES (MIXED). 
One cup of ground mustard ; one-quarter lb. of white mustard seed ; 
3 green peppers without seeds; 2 quai-ts of small cucumbers, or larger 
ones cut; 3 cauliflowers; 2 quarts small onions; 5 cents worth turmeric; 
1 lb. brovm sugar; 2 quarts vinegar; 1 cup of flour. Steam cauliflower, 
and boil onions in salted water. Cut cucumbers and let stand over night 
in salted water. Put peppers through chopper. Mix mustard, flour, 
sugar and turmeric; wet with vinegar, then boil, and add cucumbers, 
onions, cauliflower, pepper and mustard seed. C. E. Moore. 

MUSTAED PICKLES.^ 

One quart large cucumbers ; 1 quart small cucumbers ; 1 quart white 
button onions ; 1 quart green tomatoes, cut not too small. Measure large 
cucumbers and tomatoes after they are sliced; 1 large cauliflower; 4 
large green peppers, cut in coarse bits. Lay all in brine made of 1 cup 
of salt and 1 gallon of water. Soak 24 hours, then scald in fresh brine 
nuade the same way and drain. Make paste of 1 cup of flour; 6 table- 
spoons of ground mustard ; 1 ta,blespoon turmeric ; a little vinegar. Add 
enough vinegar to make 2 quarts in all. Let it boil and stir until smooth 
and thick. Add pickles while it is on the stove. Put in glass jars and 
seal. Mrs. H. Wade Hibbard. 



46 THE USEFUL OOOK BOOK 

OIL PICKLES. 
Two dozen good sized cuciunberis ; 6 onions. Slice both and soak 3 
hours in salt water. Drain and put in cans. To each quart can put 3' 
tablespoons of white mustard seed; 1 tablespoon of celery seed; 8 table- 
spoons of good olive oil; piece of alum size of a pea. Pour vinegar on 
last. Minnie S. Willis. 

Wash cucumbers and slice without peeling, sprinkle with plenty of 
salt and let stand 5 hours, then rinse thoroughly, drain and put in glass 
cans. Prepare vinegar as follows : To 1 quart of vinegar add half a cup 
of olive oil; 1 tablespoon of white mustard seed; 1 tablespoon of black 
mustard seed; 1 tablespoon of celery seed. Let them stand 3 weeks be- 
fore using. C. E. MooHE. 

SWEET PICKLE PEAES. 
Seven lbs. of fruit; 3 lbs. of sugar; 1 pint of vinegar. Stick one 
clove in each pear; put about same of cinnamon. Let juice boil before 
putting in fruit. Boil fruit until a fork will stick in easily. 

Mrs. Osteandee. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 
Fourteen lbs. peaches ; 3 lbs. brown sugar ; 3 teaspoons of cinnamon ; 
1 quart cold cider vinegar ; 3 teaspoons of cloves. Let vinegar, sugar and 
spices come to a boil, then put in the fruit and cook until you can stick 
a splint through them with care. Put them in fruit jars at once, or, if 
preferred, to put into jars and pour the hot vinegar over them several 
mornings will darken them. ilHS. E. C. Carpenter. 

PEPPEE EBLISH. 
One dozen green peppers; 1 dozen red peppers; 16 large onions. 
Take seeds out of peppers and chop both peppers and onions, cover with 
boiling water and let stand for 5 minutes; drain, cover once more with 
boiling water, let stand 5 minutes longer, then drain and add 3 pints of 
vinegar, 3 cups of white sugar, 3 tablespoons of salt. Let all come to a 
boil and put up in cans. Mrs. :Mary Cross. 

SWEET PIOKLB. 
Pare and slice the big, yellow cucumbers lengthwise, not very fine, 
and remove all the seeds. Let them stand over night in salt and water 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 47 

(a weak brine) . Drain through a sieve in the morning and scald them 
well in vinegar. Measure the drained cucumbers and to every gallon 
take 6 lbs. of sugar and spice to taste with cloves and mace. Boil the 
sugar and spice in a little vinegar and pour hot over the drained pickles. 
Cover with cold vinegar and let stand several days. 

Mes. H. Wade Hibbard. 

WATBEMELON EIND PICKLE. 
Cut the pared rind into thick slices. Boil 1 oz. of alum in 1 gallon 
of water, pour this on the rind, and let it stand several hours on the back 
of the stove. Take out into cold water, and when cold boil half an hour 
in sweet pickle made as follows : 4 lbs. best brown sugar ; 1 quart vine- 
gar; 1 cup of mixed whole spices; stick cinnamon, cassia buds, allspice 
and cloves. Tie the spices in a bag and boil them with the vinegar. 
Skim well, then add fruit. Maeian E. Clapp. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 
Cook tomatoes thoroughly, strain through sieve and let stand over 
night. In the morning dip off water. To a gallon of what remains add 
3 or 3 red peppers cut up, also 5 tablespoons of salt, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar, 11 tablespoons of vinegar, 1 teaspoon of allspice, 3 teaspoons of 
ground mustard wet with vinegar, 5 teaspoons of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of 
clov^, 4 scant teaspoons of black pepper. Jennie Northeup. 

CHILI SAUCE. 
Thirty large ripe tomatoes ; 12 onions ; 6 red peppers ; 5 tablespoon- 
fuls of salt; 20 tablespoonfuls of white sugar; 3 cups of vinegar. Cook 2 
hours. Do not skim. Mrs. Hattie Carpenter. 

CHILI SAUCE. 
Twelve ripe tomatoes; 3 ripe peppers; 2 onions; 2 tablespoons of 
salt; 3 tablespoons of sugar; 3 cups of vinegar; 1 tablespoonful of ground 
cinnamon. Chop and boil all together 1 hour. Mrs. McWhortee. 

TOMATO EELISH. 
One peck of ripe tomatoes, peeled and chopped fine ; drain in a bag 
over night; 2 cups of chopped celery; 2 large onions chopped fine; 2 cups 
of brown sugar; half a cup of salt; 2 oz. white mustard seed; 1 quart 
cider vinegar. Mix well, do not cook, and bottle. Seal with paraffine. 

Mrs. B. J. Curtis. 



48 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

CHEESE DISHES. 



LUNCHEON DISH— CHEESE FONDA WITH KICE. 
Put in double boiler, or stand on asbestos mat, 1 cup of milk; 1 
teaspoon of butter; 11/2 cups of cooked rice. When liot add 1 cup of 
cheese cut fine, salt and paprika. When cheese is melted add 1 or » 
well beaten eggs. Serve on toast. Mes. L. C. P. 

CHEESE PUFFS. 
Heat one-quarter cup of butter and 1 cup of water in saucepan. 
When boiling add half a cup each flour and grated cheese. Cook 3 min- 
utes, stirring well, season with salt and cayenne and allow to partly 
cool. Add 2 unbeaten eggs singly, beating each in very thoroughly. 
Drop by teaspoons on buttered baking sheet and bake in moderate oven 
20 minutes. Serve hot. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 
One-quarter lb. grated cheese; one-quarter lb. butter; one-quarter 
lb. flour with one-quarter teaspoon of baking powder; yolks of 2 eggs. 
Mix well together. Cut in bars, bake about 10 minutes. 

Mrs. 0. A. Peabody. 

RICE AND CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

To 1 cup of cold, boiled rice add half a cup of che^e; 1 beaten egg; 
salt and pepper to taste. Heat long enough to cook the egg, then turn 
out on platter and when cold divide into portions. Form into croquettes, 
roll in criimbs, and 'fry in smoking hot lard: serve with tomato sauce. 
Tomato Sauce: Melt 1 tablespoon of butter; stir in 1 tablespoon of flour, 
half a teaspoon of salt, a little pepper, pour on carefully 1 cup of strained 
tomato, add a few drops of onion juice, if desired. Cook 5 minutes and 
it is ready for use. Mrs. John Sabin. 

WELSH RAREBIT (MRS. LINCOLN). 
One-quarter lb. rich cream cheese; one-quai-ter cup cream or milk; 
1 teaspoon of mustard ; half a teaspoon of salt ; a little cayenne ; 1 egg ; 
1 teaspoon of butter; 4 slices toast. Break the cheese in small pieces, 
or, if hard, grate it. Put it with the milk in a double boiler. Toast the 
bread and keep it hot. Mix the mustard, salt and pepper, add the egg 
and beat well. When the cheese is melted, stir in the egg and butter 
and cook a few minutes, or until it thickens a little, but do not let it 
curdle. Pour it over the bread. 



TEE USEFUL COOK BOOK 49 

This is Mrs. Lincoln's original recipe. I find Uneeda Biscuit more 
convenient than toast, and on the whole preferable. 

Alice L. Clark, 

SARI)INE RAEEBIT. 
One teaspoon butter; one-third teaspoon salt; one-eighth teaspoon 
paprica; a few drops tobasco sauce; 1 teaspoon made mustard; 1 cup 
grated cheese ; 1 cup cream or milk. Cook until well blended, then add 6 
sardines, boned and miashed, and 3 well beaten eggs. Cook until the mix- 
ture thickens, pour on buttered toast or crackers. , Laura McKat. 



COOKIES. 



BOSTON COOKIES. 

One and a half cups of flour ; 1 cup of butter ; 3 eggs ; half a tea- 
spoon each of cloves, allspice and nutmeg, and 1 of cinnamon; half a 
teaspoon of soda dissolved in one-quarter cup of hot water; l^^ cups of 
raisins or currants and raisins; 2^?^ or 3 cups of flour. Nuts may be 
added. Minnie S. Willis. 

BROWN DROP COOKIES. 
Five tablespoons of butter ; 3 cups of brown sugar.; 3 eggs ; 1 cup of 
sweet milk; 1 teaspoon of mixed spices; small teaspoon of soda; 1 cup 
of chopped raisins. Mrs. Laura Pueman. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

Two cups of brown sugar ; half a cup of grated chocolate, or half a 
cup cocoa; half a cup of sour milk; half a cup melted butter; 1 teaspoon 
of soda; 1 teaspoon of vanilla; yolk of legg, and keep w'hite of same for 
icing. Mix soft. Icing: Beat white of egg in a bowl. Boil 1 cup of 
sugar and 6 tablespoons of water until it hairs, then pour itito beaten 
egg, and beat until cool enough to spread on cookies. 

Mrs. David Wallace. 

CHOCOLATE FRUIT COOKIES. 
Cream one-quarter cup of bnitter ; add gradually half a cup of sugar. 
Cook together 2 tablespoons each grated chocolate, sugar and water until 



50 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

smooth. Beat this in sugar and butter. Add 1 egg, well beaten ; half a 
cup each chopped nuts and raisins ; 1 cup of flour sifted with 1 teaspoon 
of baking powder; one-quarter teaspoon of salt. Boll thin, bake in mod- 
erate oven. Mrs. Laura Furman. 

DEOP COOKIES. 

Two and a half cups of oat flake; 1 egg; half a cup of butter or lard; 
8 tablespoons of sweet milk. Let ingredients, after mixing, stand 1 hour, 
then add 2 cups of brown sugar ; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon ; 1 teaspoon of 
Boda; a little salt; 3 cups of flour. Drop in tin and shape with a damp 
cloth, and sprinkle with granulated sugar. Mrs. B. C. Bock. 

PEUIT COOKIES. 
One and a half cups of sugar; three-fourths cup of butter; 2 eggs; 
1 teaspoon of soda; 2 tablespoons of sour milk; 1 cup of chopped raisins; 

1 teaspoon each of "cloves, cinnamon and salt. Flour to make quite stiff. 

Miss Willson. 

One and a half cups of brown sugar; 1 cup chopped raisins; two- 
thirds cup of butter; 2 eggs; 2 tablespoons .of buttermilk; 1 teaspoon of 
soda ; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon ; 1 teaspoon of cloves. 

Jennie Northrup. 

GINGEE COOKIES. 
One cup of sugar ; 1 cup of molasses ; 1 cup of lard ; 1 cup of water ; 

2 teaspoons of soda, dissolved in water ; 2 teaspoons of ginger ; half a tea- 
spoon of salt; 6 cups of flour. Mrs. Eapplbte. 

: One cup of sugar ; 2 cups of Kew Orleans mOlasses ; 1 heaping cup 
of cold lard,; 1 cup of boiling water; 4 teaspoons of soda; 2 teaspoons of 
ginger; 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Mrs. Jared Chaddook. 

GI-NGEE COOKIES WITHOUT SHOETENING. 
Two cups of molasses; 1 cup of sugar ; 2 eggs; 2 tablespoons of soda; 
2 tablespoons of vinegar ; 1 tablespoon of ginger. 

Mrs. Ltdia Hemingway. 



Half a cup 
lasses; 1 



a cup of sugar; half a cup of shortening; half a cup of mo- 
dessert spoon of ginger; 1 teaspoon of soda; 1 cup currants. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 51 

Flour enough to be able to take small pieces of the dough and roll into 
the sihape of marbles in the hands. They will be flat and crinkled on 
top when done, if too much flour is not added. Ella M. Jaquay. 

DEOP GINGEE COOKIES. 

Three eggs ; 1 cup of lard ; 1 cup of molasses ; half a cup of brown 
sugar ; 1 tablespoon of ginger ; 1 teaspoon of soda, dissolved in hot water ; 
5% cups of flour. Mix thoroughly and drop by the tablespoonful in 
greased pan 3 inches apart. Mes. Lydia Hemingway. 

SOFT GINGEE COOKIES. 
One egg; 1 cup of molasses; 1 cup of sugar; 1 cup of shortening; 
1 cup of buttermilk or water; 3 teaspoons of ginger; 3 teaspoons of soda; 
a little salt. Spices if desired. Mix soft and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. B. C. Buck. 

Two cups of sugar; 1 cup of lard; 1 large cup sour milk or butter- 
milk; 1 egg (if expensive, not any) ; 1 teaspoon of soda in sour milk; 2 
large teaspoons baking powder in flour; nutmeg to taste. Cut about 
half an inch thick, bake quickly. Mas. David Wallace. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 
One cup of sugar; 1 cup of molasses; 1 egg; 1 tablespoon of water; 
1 tablespoon of vinegar; 2 teaspoons of soda; ginger if desired. Mix 
soft; roll thick. Jennie Noethrup. 

One large cup of sugar ; 1 cup of butter ; 1 cup meat drippings ; 1 
cup of sweet milk ; 2 cups of molasses ; half a cup of ginger ; 3 teaspoons 
of soda, dissolved in half a cup of boiling water ; flour to make stiff. 

Mrs. James Hallam. 

One cup of brown sugar; 2 cups of New Orleans molasses; 1 good 
cup of lard; 1 egg; 1 heaping teaspoon of soda; 1 heaping teaspoon of 
ginger. Put soda and ginger in a cup and dissolve with a little water, 
then fill the cup up with cold water. Bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. 0. C. Emmons. 

One cup of sugar; li^ cups of molasses; 1 cup of shortening; 1 cup 
of cold water, in which dissolve 2 heaping teaspoons of soda ; 1 teaspoon 
of ginger. Mix as soft as can be rolled out. (Excellent.) 

Ella M. Jaquay. 



52 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

One cup of brown sugar; 1 cup of butter; 1 egg; 1 cup of New 
Orleans molasses; 2 teaspoons of soda; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon; 1 tea- 
spoon of ginger ; half a cup of water. Flour to roll soft. Bake in hot 
oven. Maet B. Mooee. 

DEOP MOLASSES COOKIES. 
One cup of molasses ; 1 cup of sugar ; 1 cup of lard and butter, half 
of each; two-thirds cup of warm water; 2 eggs; 2 teaspoons of soda; 2 
teaspoons of vanilla ; lialf a teaspoon ginger ; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon ; 1 
cup of raisins; 5 cups of flour. Mes. John Sabin. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES. 
Two cups of molasses ; 1 cup of brown sugar ; 1 cup of lard ; 1 cup of 
buttermilk; 2 even teaspoons of soda, dissolved in buttermilk; 1 tea- 
spoon of ginger. Stir together and mix as stiff as possible. (About 7 
cups of flour.) Let stand over night, roll out fairly thick, spread with 
sugar and bake in a .quick oven. ^Trs. Hanwon Smith. 

OAT FLAKE COOKIES. 
Two cups of brown sugar ; half a cup of lard ; 1 egg ; 6 tablespoons 
of sweet milk; 1 heaping teaspoon cinnamon; 2% cups of flour: 2i/^ cups 
of oat flake; 1 teaspoon of cream of tartar; half a teaspoon of soda. Let 
it stand 1 hour after mixing, then drop from teaspoon, and bake. 

^Ies. E. J. CUETIS. 

OAT MEAL COOKIES. 
One cup of brown sugar ; 1 cup of butter ; 2 eggs ; 1 teaspoon of soda, 
dissolved in 2 tablespoons of sweet milk; 3 tablespoons of molasses; 1 
teaspoon of cinnamon ; 2 cups of oat meal flakes : 2 cups of flour. Drop 
with spoon and bake. • :\1rs. J. L. Stone. 

One tablespoon of butter ; 1 cup of granulated sugar ; 2 eggs ; half a 
cup of milk; 2 cups of rolled oats; 2 tablespoons of bakino- powder; 1 
teaspoon of vanilla; flour enough to make stiff. Drop from teaspoon on 
to buttered pans, placing 2 inAes^ apart. Put a raisin or almond on top 
of each. If the oats are allowed to soften in the dough for a little while, 
it is impossible to detect the oats when baked. 

Mrs. Albert Jacobs. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 53 

OAT MEAL COOKIES. 
Two and a half cups of oat meal ; 3i/^ cups of flour ; 1 cup of butter ; 
1 cup of sugar; 3 eggs; 3 tablespoons of milk; 1 teaspoon of soda; 1 
tablespoon of ciimamon. Bake in hot oven. Jennie Noetheup. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 
One and a half cups of sugar; 3 eggs; half a teaspoon of soda; 1 
tablespoon of baking powder; two-thirds cup of lard; two-thirds cup of 
buttermilk ; a little salt and nutmeg. Flour to roll soft. 

Mrs. Gr. M. Pashley. 

Three eggs ; 3 cups soft white sugar ; half a cup of butter and half a 
cup of lard ; half a cup of cream or two-lihirds cup sour milk ; 1 teaspoon 
of saleratus ; half a nutmeg ; a little salt ; 4 cups sifted flour. 

Mes. Cook. 

Two cups of sugar ; 1 cup of butter ; 3 eggs ; 4 tablespoons of water ; 

3 teaspoons of baking powder; flour enough to make stifi. 

Mes. W. H. Beyan. 

Two eggs; 3 cups of sugar; two-thirds cup of butter; half a cup 
of sweet milk; 4 teaspoons of baking powder. Mix well with flour and 
bake in quick oven. Mrs. E. C. Buck. 

Two cups of sugar; 1 cup of butter or lard; 2 eggs; 1 cup of sweet 
milk; 1 teaspoon of soda and 3 teaspoons of cream tartar, dissolved in 
milk; half a teaspoon of salt; 3 teaspoons of lemon extract. Flour for 
soft dough, about_6 cupfuls. Mrs. Eapplbye. 

Two cups of sugar; 1 cup of butter; 4 tablespoons of sweet milk; 

4 tablespoons of sour milk; 1 egg; 1 teaspoon of soda; nutmeg for flavor. 
Flour to roll soft. Mes. James Hallam. 

Four eggs; 3 cups of sugar; 1 cup of butter; 1 teaspoon of soda, and 
3 of cream of tartar; just enough milk to wet the soda; flavor with 
lemon ; flour enough to roll quite soft. Mes. Chas. H. Williams. 

WHITE COOKIES. 
Half a cup of butter; half a cup of "A" sugar; 3 eggs; 3 teaspoons 
of baking powder; 3 tablespoons of sweet milk; nutmeg, vanilla; flour 
enough to roll soft as possible. Bake in hot oven. 

Maey E. Mooet, 



64 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

SMALL CAKES. 



COCOANUT MACAEOONS. 
AVhites of 3 eggs beaten stiff; add 5 tablespoons of sugar; half a 
pound dessicated cocoanut. Stir lightly with spoon, adding sugar first. 
Makes 30. Bake in rather slow oven. Let them stand in tins 10 
minutes. ' Jennie N"oETHEur. 

CRULLEES. 
One quart of flour; a little salt; 2 teaspoons of cream tartar sifted 
with flour; 1 cup of sugar; 1 egg; butter size of an egg; 1 teaspoon of 
soda in cup of milk (sour milk is better). Jennie Koktheup. 

DEOP CAKES. 
One cup of sugar; half a cup of butter; 1 egg; small teaspoon of 
soda in one-third cup of milk ; nutmeg. Drop in dabs. 

Jennie N"obtheup. 

DEOP GINGEE CAKES. 
Put in a bowl 1 cup brown sugar; 1 cup molasses; 1 cup of butter. 
Pour over this 1 cup of boiling water, stirring well. Then add 1 well 
beaten egg ; 3 teaspoons of soda ; 3 tablespoons each of ginger and cinnar 
mon ; half a teaspoon of ground cloves ; 5 cups of flour. Stir aU together 
and drop on buttered tins. Bake in quick oven, taking care not to burn 

Mes. C. W. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
One cup of white sugar (scant) ; 3 eggs ; 1 tablrapoon of cream, or 
small piece of butter melted, size of a walnut; 1 cup of milk; 2 teaspoou; 
of baking powder. Beat the eggs and sugar together half an hour before 
putting in the flour; beating will make them very white. Add floui to 
make them about the same consistency as cookies. 

Ella M. Jaquat. 

Two eggs beaten light; 1 cup of sugar; 1 cup of sour cream; 4 cups 
of iiour ; half a teaspoon of soda ; 1 teaspoon each of salt and cinnamon. 
Have board well floured and take on it 1 large spoon of dough, kneading 
gently until firm enough to roll out and cut. Mix trimmings with a 
fresh spoon of dough, repeating this operation until all is used. Have 
fat hot enough so they will rise to top instantly. 

Mrs. Albert Jacobs. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 55 

Half a cup of sugar; 2 eggs; 1 tablespoon of melted butter; 1 cup 
of sweet milk; 3 teaspoons of baking powder; one-quarter tca-ucon of 
salt; nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. Mix quite stifE and drop in hot 
lard. Mrs. Cook. 

One cup of sugar; 3 eggs; 4 tablespoons thin cream; half a cup of 
milk; 2 teaspoons of cream tartar and 1 of soda; 1 teaspoon of salt; 
flour enough so lihe dough can be rolled. Mes. H. Wade Hibbard. 

POOE MAN^S PRIED CAKES. 
One heaping cup of white sugar ; 1 egg ; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 3 large 
teaspoons of baking powder, sifted in flour; salt and nutmeg. Mix soft 
and fry quickly, but do not burn. Mrs. Ltdia Hemingway. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Two cups of sugar; 2 eggs; 1 tablespoon of melted butter; 1 large 
cup of buttermilk or sour milk; 1 teaspoon of soda; cinnamon; a little 
salt; flour to mix about like cookies. Mary E. Moore. , 

FRIED CAKES. 

One cup of sour milk ; 1 cup of sugar ; 2 eggs ; 3 tablespoons of but- 
ter ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 2 teaspoons of baking powder. Mix soft enough 
to handle. Alice M. Stevens. 

One and a half cups of buttermilk ; 2 cups of sugar ; 3 eggs ; 6 table- 
spoons of butter or lard ; 1 teaspoon of saleratus, rounded a little. Beat 
the eggs, butter and sugar together, flavor with nutmeg or allspice. IMix 
just hard enough to roll. Fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. H. Amanda Wilcox. 

Two cups of sugar ; 1 cup of sweet milk ; 1 cup of hot mashed pota- 
toes; 2 eggs; 1 nutmeg; 2 tablespoons of melted butter; 3 teaspoons of 
baking powder ; 4 cups of flour. Have lard hot. 

Mrs. Geo. A. Durling. 

Two cups of sugar; 1 cup of sweet milk; 3 tablespoons of melted 
butter; 6 balls of mashed potatoes size of an egg; creamed with sugar 
while hot; half a teaspoon of salt; 5 even teaspoons of baking powder; 
3 eggs ; flavoring. Mrs. W. L. Dean. 



56 THE U8EFUL COOK BOOK 

GINGEE SNAPS. 
One cup of molasses; half a cup of sugar; 1 teaspoon of ginger; 1 
teaspoon of soda; 'half a cup of softened butter. Flour to roll out very 
thin. Heat the molasses, pour it over the sugar, add the ginger, soda, 
butter and flour last. Bake in hot oven. Maeian E. Clapp. 

One cup of molasses; 1 cup of butter; half a cup of sugar; 3 large 
spoons of hot water ; 1 teaspoon of soda dissolved in the hot water ; 1 tea- 
spoon of ginger; 'I teaspoons cinnamon; mix over night quite stiff. 

Mrs. John Sabin. 

Two cups of molasses; 1 cup of lard; 1 teaspoon of ginger; 1 heap- 
ing teaspoon of soda, dissolved in a little hot water; 6 teacups of flour. 
Stir and let stand half an hour. Drop with spoon and roll wi6h hands 
into flat patties and bake. Mrs. E. J. Curtis. 

HEEMITS. 
Two cups of sugar; 1 cup of lard; 1 cup of New Orleans molasses; 
1 cup of water; 6 cups of flour; 8 level teaspoons of soda, dissolved in 
water; 3 teaspoons of cinnamon; 1 teaspoon cloves; 1 large cup of fruit, 
raisins and English currants. Mrs. Kappleye. 

JUMBLES. 
One cup of butter and 1 cup of sugar creamed; 4 eggs beaten sep- 
arately; 2 cups of flour (or more) ; 2 teaspoons of baking powder; salt, 
flavoring'. Drop on buttered tins. Try a cake and add more flour if 
necessary. ^Irs. Laura Furjiax. 

One heaping cup of sugar; half a cup of butter; half a cup of sour 
cream ; 1 cjjg : 1 teaspoon of soda ; nutmeg, salt an-d flour. 

Jkxxie Xorthrup. 

LEMON TAETS. 
Grate 1 lemon and use juice ; 1 cup of sugar ; 1 egg ; half a cup of 
water ; 1 heaping tablespoon of flour ; fill shells and bake. 

Mrs. Hanson Smith. 

NUT KISSES. 
Whites of 4 eggs beaten very stiff; 1 pinch of salt; 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla. Tn this cut 1 pound dates in five or six pieces each, half a pound 



THE USEFUL COOK SOOK 57 

Celled almionds sliced thin; do not remove skins. Beat them all to- 
gether until light. Butter tins, sprinkle over a thin coating of flour, and 
drop on with a teaspoon about half an inch apart. Cook till a light 
brown in very slow oven. Leave in tin till cold, so they will not crumble. 

Mks. H. L. Conlee. 

NUT WAFBES. 
One-quarter pound butter; one-quarter pound powdered sugar; half 
a cup flour ; 2 eggs well beaten ; 2 cups hickory nuts, chopped. Drop in 
teaspoonful on buttered paper. Mrs. F. Beamaist. 

OAT MEAL CAKES. 
Two and a half cups of oat -flake; 1 egg; half a cup of lard; 8 table- 
spoons of sweet milk. Mix and let stand 1 hour, then add 2 cups of 
brown sugar; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon; 1 teaspoon of soda; 2 cups of 
flour ; a little salt. Stir well and drop in pan. 

Mes. James Hallam. 

OAT MEAL MACAEOONS. 
One cup of granulated sugar ; 2% cups of oat flake ; 2 teaspoons of 
melted butter; 2 eggs; 1 teaspoon baking powder. Flavor with almond, 
quite strong. Drop with spoon in well buttered pans and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Mrs. Katherine D. Clapp. 

OAT MEAL WAFEES. 
One-half cup of butter and 1 cup of sugar, creamed; 2 eggs, beaten 
light; 2% cups of rolled oats. Mix all together and drop with a spoon. 

Mrs. J. L. Stone. 

ROCKS. 
One-half cups of sugar; 1 cup of butter; 1 cup of raisin?, 
seeded and chopped ; 2^/^ cups (scant) of flour ; 3 eggs, beaten separate- 
ly ; 1 full teaspoon of cinnamon ; ^ teaspooji of soda (dissiolve in 2 table- 
spoons of hot water) ; 1 pinch of salt ; 1 full pound of English walnuts. 
Chop meats just a little, not too fine. Bake slowly. 

Alice M. Stevens. 

EOCKIES. 
One and a half cups of sugar ; 1 cup of butter ; cream together and 
add 3 well beaten eggs; 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1-3 cup of warm 



58 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

water; 1 teaspoon of ciiinamon; 21^ cups of flour; % lb. raisins; 1 lb. 
English walnuts, run through chopper. Drop from spoon on buttered 
tins and bake; if they spread too mudh add more flour. Nuts can be 
omitted if desired. Mrs. C. M. Doyle. 

SWEET GEAHAM CAKES. 
One cup of sour milk ; 1 cup of sugar ; a little less than i^ cup of 
s^hortening; 1 egg, (or can be omitted) ; small teaspoon of soda; flavor 
with nutmeg and vanilla ; about 1 cup of graham flour. 

Mes. Peank Staekins. 

TEA CAKES. 
One cup of butter; % cups of sugar, beaten together; 1 cup of but- 
termilk; 1 teaspoon of saleratus; nutmeg or caraway; flour enough to 
mix soft as possible. Mrs. Jaeed Chaddooe;. 

TEA CAKES. 
Mix 1% cups light brown sugar, 1-3 cup molasses, % cup butter, to 
a cream; put 3-3 of an even teaspoon soda in % cup of sour milk, stir 
well, add to tJhe above ; spice to taste ; add 3 well-beaten eggs ; 1 cup fruit ; 
3 cups flour. Bake slowly in patty tins. 5Ies. H. L. Conlee. 

DROP CAKES. 
One cup of molasses; 1 cup of sugar; 3-3 cup of lard; 1 cup of 
buttermilk; 3 teaspoons of soda; 1 teaspoon each of ginger, cinnamon, 
cloves ; 3 eggs ; 1 cup of currants ; 6 cups of flour. 

Mrs. J. SiNCEBAUGH. 

DEOP CAKES. 
Two cups of sugar; 1 cup of molasses; 1 cup of lard; 1 cup of 
warm water ; 1 cup of chopped raisins ; 6 cups of flour ; 3 eggs ; 1 teaspoon 
of soda; a little salt; flavor with vanilla. Mrs. C. W. Scott. 

DEOP CAKES. 
Stir 3 teaspoons of soda into 1 cup of Porto Rico molasses and beat 
until it foams. Mix 1 cup of granulated sugar and 1 cup of shortening 
together; add the molasses; 1 cup sour milk; ly^ teaspoons of 
cinnamon; 1 teaspoon of cloves; 3-3 cup of English currants; 4 cups 
or more of flour, enough for a stiff dough. Drop on buttered tins and 
bake. Mes. A. E. Congdon. 



THE USEFUL GOOK BOOK 59 

DESSERTS (COLD). 



CAEAMBL CUSTAED. 

Put 2 dessertspoons of crushed sugar in a tin pan, let it stand on 
the stove until it begins to brown, then stir constantly until it is a thick 
black syrup. Pour it into 1 quart of scalding milk; add 6 ozs. of 
white sugar and the yolks of 3 eggs. Beat and pour into cups. Set in a 
pan of hot water in ttie oven and bake 30 minutes. Mrs L. M. H. 

CAEAMEL PUDDING. 
One quart of milk ; 3 or 4 eggs ; 1 cup of sugar. Heat the milk and 
y^ cup of the sugar to boiling point. The remaining i^ cup of sugar 
put igt frying pan to brown on back of stove, until a light brown. Stir 
the caramel into the boiling milk, beat the eggs together until very light, 
pour slowly into the boiling milk, stirring constantly. Bake in pudding 
dish in pan of hot water with cover. Eemove as soon as custard is set. 

Mes. Cora A. Snow. 

CHAELOTTE EUSSE. 

One cup of sugar ; 1 cup of flour ; 1 teaspoon of baking powder ; 2 
eggs; 1-3 cup of boiling water put in Just before putting in the oven. 
Bake in square tin. When cold, split in two and line an oblong pudding 
dish, putting the top of the cake next to the dish. 

FILLINGr: Soak % tablespoons of Cooper's gelatine in ^ pint of 
milk for 10 minutes. Put it over the fire and keep stirring until the 
gelatine is dissolved, then remove, and when it begins to stiffen beat 
thoroughly with a Dover egg beater adding ^ cup of granulated sugar 
and 1 pintvof cream by degrees. Elavor to taste and beat until stiff. 
Then pour it into the mould already lined with the cake, putting the 
lower half of IJie cake on top. Set in a cold place until ready to serve, 
then turn on platter. Jennie Northeup. 

COEPEB JELLY. 
Soak a little more than % n box of gelatine in a cup of cold water. 
After 3 hours, pour on 1 cup of boiling water, in which 1 cup of sugar 
has been dissolved, then add 3 cups of good, fresh coffee. Blend and 
strain through cheese-cloth into a mould. When cold, arrange on a dish 
and surround with whipped cream, letting the top show. 

EuTH V. Sackett. 



60 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

CEBAM OF BEEAD SHAPE. 
Three-fourths oz. gelatine; 1% pints milk; 3 eggs; 2 oz. sugar; 
little lemon juice. Method : Soak the gelatine in % pint of milk. Put 
one pint of milk into saucepan with sugar, lemon and yolks of eggs. Add 
soaked gelatine and cook as you would custard. Beat the whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, pour into the 'hot custard very quickly and stir well. Put, 
into a mould. Mrs. A. B. Cotton. 

ECLAIR PUDDING. 
Pour eggs; 1 cup of sugar; 1 cup of flour; 1 teaspoon of TaniUa; 
also 1 of baking powder. When baked spread on top with chocolate icing. 
White of 1 egg ; l^ cup of milk ; l^ cup of sugar ; 4 teaspoons of grated 
chocolate ; boil until thick and smooth. Just before serving the pudding, 
split and fill with the following : One pint of milk, a little salt, yolks of 
3 eggs, ^2 cup of sugar, 2 teaspoons of cornstarch, flavor with vanilla or 
lemon. Mrs. L. M. H. 

FIGS WITH WHIPPED CEEAM. 
Steam nice figs 15 minutes, fill with tart jam and chopped walnuts, 
roll in sugar, and serve with whipped cream. 

GINGEE CEEAM. 
One-half box of gelatine; 1 pint of boiling milk; 3 eggs; vanilla 
flavoring; 1 cup of sugar; 14 lb. preserved ginger; 14 P™t whipped 
cream; a few macaroon crumbs. Soak gelatine in a little cold water, 
add boiling milk and well beaten eggs yolks and sugar, return to boiler 
to thicken, strain, add ginger, stirring occasionally until it b^ns to set. 
Then add well beaten whites of eggs and y^, pint of whipped cream. 
Turn in mould. SeiTe with whipped cream and sprinkle -of macaroon 
crumbs. One-'half recipe will serve six people. 

Mrs. C. a. Martin. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
One cup of sugar; 2 cups of boiling water; juice and rind of 1 
lemon; whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Let the water and sugar come to 
a boil, then stir in 3 tablespoons of cornstarch. When cooked remove 
from fire and beat in the whites. Serve with cream and sugar or the fol- 
lowing custard : One small tablespoon of cornstarch ; 1 scant half cup of 
sugar. Stir into a pint of bailing milk and flavor with vanilla. Especial- 
ly good on a hot day if served cold. Mrs. H. Wade Hibbard. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 61 

LEMON PUDDING. 
One-half box gelatine dissolved in a pint of boiling water ; 1 lemon, 
juice and rind ; 1% cups of sugar. Strain through a cloth, then stir in 
the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs and set on ice or in water until cool. 
Sauce: 1 pint of milk; yolks of 3 eggs; 1 teaspoon of cornstarch; 1 
tablespoon of sugar. Jennie Northeup. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk ; 3 tablespoons of cornstarch ; yolks of 3 eggs ! 
a little salt ; sugar to taste ; grated rind of 1 orange ; inside of 4 oranges, 
seeds removed, covered with 1 cup of white sugar. Cool cornstarch and 
mix Just before serving. Put whites of eggs beaten to meringue with 
powdered sugar on top. Marian E. Clapp. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 
Four sweet oranges, sliced small ; 1 quart of milk ; 1 cup of sugar ; 
2 teaspoons of cornstarch; yolks of 3 eggs. Heat the milk. When 
nearly boiling, add the cornstarch wet with a little milk, and the sugar 
and eggs ■ thoroughly beaten. Boil until thick as custard. When cold 
pour over the sliced oranges. Make a meringue of the whites of 3 eggs 
and 1 small cup of sugar. Spread on pudding and put sliced oranges on 
top of this. • Mrs. L. M. H. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 
Slice 3 oranges and add 1 ciip of sugar. Take 1 pint of milk sweet- 
ened to taste, let come to a boil, then add the yolks of 2 eggs and 8 table- 
spoons of cornstarch. Let coOl and flavor with vanilla or the grated 
orange peel. Pour over the oranges and frost with the whites of the eggs 
and 3 tablespoons of sugar. Mrs. J. R. Updike. 

VERY DAINTY DESSERT. 
Beat the white of 1 egg stifE, take equal quantity of red raspber- 
ries, 2 tablespoons of powdered sugar, and beat all together. Serve with 
whipped cream on top in sherbet glasses. Serve quite cold. 

Mrs. Cook. \ 

PINE-APPLE CHARLOTTE.- 

Soak 14 box gelatine (Cox's) until soft in Just enough cold water 
to cover, then pour over it 1 cup of boiling pine-apple Juice, let boil 



62 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

nicely, remove from fire and let stand until nearly cool. \\'hip 1 quart of 
cream stiff and add to it 1/2 lb- pulverized sugar, 1 teaspoon of vanilla, 1 
teaspoon orange or lemon flavoring, 1 cup of solid pine-apple chopped 
fine. Beat this mixture into the half cooled gelatine and a pinch of salt 
and stir constantly until cold. Chill for a few hours before serving. 
This quantity serves a dozen people. Mrs. 0. H. Waltz. 

PRUFB PUDDING. 
One-half pound of nice prunes; 1 pint of whipped cream; sugar 
to suit taste. Soak the prunes over night, stew slowly until very soft, 
having as little water as possible at the last ; remove the pits, sift, sweeten 
to taste, set aside to cool. When ready to serve, add about 3-3 of tho 
whipped cream and spread the rest over the top. Will serve 6 people. 

Mrs. Conlee. 

PRUNE WHIP. 
One cup of prunes after they have been cooked, stoned, and rubbei 
through a colander; juice of a small lemon; i/^ cup of sugar; whites of 
4 eggs well beaten. Pour into a buttered pudding pan and bake in bo'^^ 
ing water in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. Serve cold with whippei 
cream, sweetened with powdered sugar and flavored with lemon. 

^[llSrNIE S. WiLLTS. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
Put 3 tablespoons of tapioca to soak over night in luke-warm water. 
In the morning pour on this 1 quart of milk and bring to a boil, adding 
a pinch of salt and 4 to 5 tablespoons of sugar and yolks of 3 eggs, which 
cools it when you pour it in. Let boil again, stirring until it thicken-"-. 
Pour in baking dish. Beat -whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth, add 4 table- 
spoons of powdered sugar and spread over top. Put in oven and bake 
a light brown. Whites of eggs can be stirred in pudding, and not 
browned, if preferred, and flavored with vanilla. Mrs. H. P. O'Neil. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 
Especially for Invalids. 
One cup of sweet milk ; 1 egg ; 1 teaspoon of tapioca before soak- 
ing; 1 heaping teaspoon of sugar; pinch of salt; 14 teaspoon of vanilla. 
Soak tapioca over night, or 4 houi-s, at least, heat milk in double boiler, 
add sugar, and iapioca. Slightly beat yolk of the Oiig. pour the hot milk 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 63 

on slowly, stirring constantly, return to double boiler, and cook until 
thick. Beat white of the egg to stiff froth, and add lightly. Cool, and 
add yanilla. Marian E. Clapp. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 
Three tablespoons of tapioca, soaked in cold water over night. In 
morning add 1 quart of milk, yolks- of 3 eggs, 1 teacup of sugar, a little 
salt, and cook in double boiler until creamy. Elavor with vanilla, add 
beaten whites of eggs, serve cold. Mes. John Sabin. 

TAPIOCA CEEAM. 

Two tablespoons of tapioca; 2 cups of milk; % cup of sugar; 1-3 
cup of cold water; yolks of 2 eggs; vanilla; pinch salt. Soak tapioca 
in water for 1 hour. Scald milk, add tapioca and cook until clear. Add 
yolks beaten light with sugar, cook 5 minutes, take from fire, add salt 
and flavoring, pour into pudding dish, cover with meringue and browr. 
lightly in oven. Crushed and sweetened fruit of any kind or of several 
kinds may be stirred in before putting on meringud. 

Mrs. C. a. Martin. 

STUFFED DATES. 
If the brown variety, cover with quite warm, water, if the black ones, 
use hot water; let them stand about five minutes; separate, drain 
thoroughly, remove the pit. Insert one-fourth of the meat of an English 
walnut, press together, and roll in granulated sugar. 

Mrs. H. L. Conlee. 



DESSERTS (FROZEN). 



CAFE PARFAIT. 

To % cup of very strong coffee add % cup of sugar and 2 beaten 
yolks of eggs. Cook in double boiler until thickened, strain and cool. 
Whip 1 pint of cream until stiff, mix gently with custard and place in 
mould. Cover closely, binding edge of lid with buttered cloth. Pack as 
for ioe-cream and allow to stand three hours. Remove carefully to 
chilled platter, surround with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, 
and garnish with candied cherries. Mes. C. A. Maetin. 



64 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

CAEAMEL ICE-CEEAM. 
Put 41/^ tablespoons of sugar in saucepan and stir over hot fire until 
dissolved and brown, then turn into a little hot milk and stir until 
smooth. Strain, add 1 pint of scalded cream, cool and freeze. 

ilEs. Laura Fuemait. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CEEAM. 
Three pints of creamery cream; 1 pint milk; three cups of sugar; 
^ eggs; 14 Si- Baker's chocolate; ^4 ^z. vanilla. Beat the yolks and 
whites of eggs separately. Dissolve the chocolate in the milk; mix all 
the ingredients together, strain through cheese-cloth into the freezer and 
freeze. . Mrs. H. Wade Hibbbaed. 

ICE-CEEAM. 

Four eggs for 1 quart of milk. Heat the milk to near boiling. Beat 
the eggs thoroughly, pour the milk on the eggs and stir well. Eetum to . 
the stove for about 5 minutes, sweeten and flavor to taste. Freeze. 

Flossie Xelson. 

ICE-CEEAM. 

Two tablespoons of constarcli; 10 ounces of sugar; yolks of 4 eggs; 
1 quart of milk. Scald until well thickened, then cool, add 1 pint of 
cream, stir in well beaten whites of 3 e.sgs. Flavor and freeze. 

Mrs. Laura Pubman. 

ICE-CEEA:\r. 
Paste for "filler": 14 pint of milk or cream, 1 level teaspoon of 
flour, lump of butter size of walnut. Cook to smooth paste and strain 
while warm over i/^ lb. sugar and 2 eggs. Stir until thoroughly mixed. 
Add cream enough to make a quart or little more, flavor and freeze. 
If fruit flavors are to be used, crush and sweeten the fruit and add it to 
mixture when partly frozen. Mrs. C. A. ]\Iartin-. 

GEAPE SHEEBET. 
Mix a thick syrup and let cool. To 2 quarts, add 1 pint of grape 
Juice and juice of 4 lemons, white of 1 egg beaten stiff. Add egg just as 
it begins to freeze. May flavor with pineapple, oranges, etc., always 
using lemons. Mrs. C. E. Courtney. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 65 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Boil sliced yellow rind of 1 lemon in 1 quart of milk with 1 ciip of 
sugar. Eemove rind and cool, then add well beaten whites of 4 eggs and 
partly freeze. Squeeze juice of 4 lemons on heaped cup of sugar, strain, 
add to half frozen mixture and finish freezing. 

Mas. Laura Furman. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

One cup of cold water; 3 cups of sugar; juice of' 3 lemons; whites 
of 2 eggs ; 3 cups cream or part milk, part cream. Dissolve sugar in water, 
add lemon juice, strain and half freeze. Beat whites of eggs till stiff, stir 
iato cream and finish freezing. Any other fruit or fruit juices may be 
used in place of lemon. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

MAPLE MOUSSE. 

Bring to the boiling point 1 cup of maple syrup, stir in the well 
beaten yolks of 4 eggs. When cold, stir in 1 pint of whipped cream. 
Pack in ohepped ice and salt and let stand 3 or 4 hours ; do not stir after 
putting on ice. Mrs. C. M. Doyle. 

MILK ICE. 

One pint of sugar; juice of 2 lemons; 1 quart of milk. Mix and 
let stand 1 hour (if it looks curdled, it is still all right), add any kind oi^ 
crushed fruit you choose, and freeze. ' Mrs. C. M. Dotle. 

MILK SHERBET. 

Squeeze the juice from 4 lemons, thicken it with sugar, which takes 
3^^ cups. Stir this into a pint of milk, put a pint of milk into the 
freezer, and add the above. Freeze as ice-cream. 

Marian E. Clapp. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Two tablespoons gelatine; 3 cups of boiling water4 cups of cold 
water ; 1 quart of sugar ; juice of 4 lemons and 8 oranges. Soak gelatine 
in two cups of cold water, add boiling water, then' sugar and juice, 
strain, and freeze. - Mrs. H. Wade Hibbard. 



66 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK • 

PEACH FEAPPE. 
One quart of sugar; 1 quart of boiling water poured over 6 well 
beaten eggs. Cool. Add 1 quart of crushed fruit; 1 quart of whipped 
cream. Freeze as for ice-cream. Any of the small summer fruits, such 
as strawberries or raspberries, are very nice for the above. 

Helen Hill. 

TOMATO SOEBET. 
Cook enough tomatoes to make a pint. Add 1 cup of water; 1 
tablespoon of lemon juice in which has been soaked 1 teaspoon of pow- 
dered mint leaves; 2 tablespoons of sugar. Then boil slowly for ten 
minutes, strain, stir in 1 teaspoon of minced candied lemon peel; 1 tea- 
spoon of minced candied ginger. Just before freezing add the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Freeze until of a mush-like consistency. 

EuTH V. Sackett. 



HOT DESSERT. 



BBEEY PUDDING. 
Mix y2 tablespoonful of baking powder with Yz cup of flour and a 
pinch of salt. Put into 'iihis a good sized tablespoonful of butter, i^ cup 
of sweet milk. Spread this mixture on the bottom of a baking dish, cover 
with a layer of berries and steam for i/^ hour. 

Mes. Hattie Carpenter. 

j 

1 BLACK PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses; 1 egg; 1 teaspoon of soda dissolved in 2-3 
'cup of boiling water ; 1 teaspoon of ginger ; 1% cups of flour ; steam in 
3 pint dish 1% hours without removing cover. Sauce : One-quarter cup 
of butter, 1 cup of sugar stirred to a cream, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of vanilla; 
beat until smooth. Mrs. E. C. Buck. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses; 1 cup of raisins; 3 cups of flour; 1 cup of 

warm water; 2 tablespoons of melted butter; 1 tablespoon of saleratus; 

pinch of salt; % teaspoon of cloves ; 1 teaspoon of cinnamon. Steam 2 

hours. Eat with sauce, or whipped cream is better flavored with vanilla. 

Mrs. Ostrander. 



THE USEFUL GOOK BOOK 67 

BEOWN BETTY PUDDING. 

Two cups of chopped apples; 1% cups of bread crumbs; 14 cup of 
sugar ; 3 beaten eggs, or 3 tablespoons of milk or water ; I/2 teaspoon of 
cinnamon ; y^ teaspoon of cloves or mace ; a little salt. Steam 3 hours. 

Jennie Northrup. 

c;areot pudding. 

Two cups of grated carrots ; 2 cups of grated potatoes (both raw) ; 
no other moisture ; 1 cup of currants ; 1 cup of raisins ; I/2 cup of citron ; 
1 teaspoon of nutmeg; 1 teaspoon of cloves; also of cinnamon; 1 cup of 
butter ; 2 cups of flour ; 1 cup of sugar ; large pinch of salt ; 3 teaspoons 
of baking powder. Steam 3 hours. Serve with sauce. This pudding is 
like the English plum pudding. Mrs. A. A. Stanley. 

CHEEBY PUDDING. 

Two eggs, well beaten; 1 cup of sweet milk; 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder ; a pinch of salt ; sifted flour to make a stiff batter. Stir in last 
as many cherries as can be stirred in. Boil or steam 1 hour. Sauce: 
Butter and sugar creamed. Mrs. H. P. O'Neil. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One-half cup of sugar; 2 egg-s; 1 cup of milk; 2 cups of sifted 
flour; 2 teaspoons of baldng powder, sifted in the flour; lastly add 2 
tablespoons of melted butter. Mrs. E. C. Carpenter. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One pint of flour; 1 cup qf sugar; 1 cup of sweet milk; 1 egg; 3 
tablespoons of melted butter; 1 teaspoon of soda; 2 teaspoons of cream 
tartar. Blend bijtter and sugar, then add egg and other ingredients. 

Alice M. Stevens. 

CEANBEERY EOLL. 

Stew a quart of cranberries in just water enough to keep them from 
burning. Make very sweet, strain and cool. Make a paste, and when 
the cranberry is cold, spread it on the paste about an inch thick. Eoll it 
in close in a flannel cloth and boil 2 hours. Serve with sweet cauce. 

Miss WiLLSON. 



68 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

DATE PUDDING. 
One-half cup of sour milk; % cup of molasses or sugar; Y^ tear 
spoon of soda; spices to taste; % lb. dates with stones removed. Stir 
quite thick with graham flour and steam 2 hours. Serve with whipped 
cream, or 'hard or soft sauce. Jennie Noetheup. • 

FIG PUDDING. 
One cup of grated bread crumbs; 2 tablespoons of melted butter; 
^2 cup of sugar ; 3 eggs ; % lb. figs chopped very fine. Steam 21^ hours. 
Serve with liquid sauce. Maeion E. Clapp. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses ; 1 cup of sour milk ; 2-3 cup of melted butter ; 
1 teaspoon of salt; 1 teaspoon of soda; % teaspoon of cloves; y^, teaspoon 
of cinnamon; 1 lb. raisins; 1 lb. currants; y^ lb. citron. Make a stifE 
batter and steam 4 hours. 

Sauce for Fruit Pudding. — One cup of sugar; % cup of butter 
stirred to a cream, with an egg beaten very light stirred into same ; y^ cup 
of boiling water. Set in top of tea-kettle, and cook until it foams up 
well, stirring often. Mes. Chas. H. Williams. 

GINGEE PUDDING. 
One egg; 1 cup of molasses; y^ cup of butter; y^ cup of fruit: 
y^ cup of hot water ; 1 teaspoon of soda ; 1 tablespoon of ginger. Stir 
stiff and steam 1 hour. 

Sauce — One egg; 1 cup of sugar; 1-3 cup of butter; 1 tablespoon 
flour; 11/^ tablespoons of lemon juice. Pour in boiling water and make 
like thin starch. Can use vinegar in place of lemon. 

Mrs. H. p. O'Neil. 

GINGEB BEEAD PUDDING. 
One and a half cups of molasses; % cup of melted butter; y^ cup 
of boiling water ; 11/2 cups of flour ; 2 teaspoons of ginger ; 1 teaspoon 
of cinnamon; 1 teaspoon of soda, dissolved in hot water. Stir molasses, 
butter and water together, add cinnamon, ginger and flour last. Sauce: 
Pour heaping tablespoons of sugar; 2 heaping tablespoons of butter; 1 
heaping tablespoon of cornstarch. Jlix all together and pour over this 
1% to 3 cups of boiling water and cook until clear. Just before serving 
add grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. Natta Brown. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 69 

GEAHAM PUDDING. 

One-half cup of molasses; 1 cup of sweet milk; 3 cups of graham 
flour; ^2 teaspoon of soda, dissolved in hot water. Steam 3 hours. 
Sauce: One small cup of sugar; 1 heaping tablespoon of flour; but- 
ter size of large egg; % nutmeg; 1 pint of boiling water. Stir until 
smooth. Add 1 teaspoon of sharp vinegar. 

Mrs. Lydia Hemingway. 

GEAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup of sweet milk; 1 cup of raisins; 2 cups of graham flour; 

1 egg; pinch salt; 1 cup of molasses; i teaspoon of soda; 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon; 1 nutmeg. Steam continuously 2 hours. 

Mrs. W. H. Bryan. 

GEAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses; % cup of sugar; 1 cup of sweet millc; 1 
egg; y^ teaspoon of salt; 1 teaspoon of soda, dissolved in a little wirm 
water; piece of butter, size of an egg; 1% cups of graham flour; 1 cup 
of raisins. Steam 3 houra. Mrs. McWhorter. 

GEAHAM PUDDING. 

Two and a half cups of graham flour; 1 cup of molasses; 1 cup 
sweet milk; 1 cup of raisins; 2 teaspoons of soda; a little salt. Steam 

2 hours. Hard or soft sauce. Serve warm. Hard Sauce: One^half 
cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar. Stir butter and sugar to a cream, add 
the white of an egg beaten to a stifl froth, flavor with vanilla, grate a 
little nutmeg over the top. Soft Sauce : Same as hard, only whole egg 
is used, add boiling water until it isj thel righiti consistency. 

Jennie Northeup. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Scald 1 quart of milk. Stir into a little cold milk 1 teacup of Indian 
meal and add to the boiling milk stirring until it thickens, but no longer 
as it will not bake well. When nearly cold, add a pinch of salt and 1 
pint of cold milk. Sweeten wiih half sugar and half molasses (about 2-3 
cup). Flavor with a little nutmeg and ginger. Bake 3 hours. 

Mrs. 0. A. Peabody. 



70 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Scald a quart of milk and pour over % cup of corn-meal. Stir 

together and let stand to cool; then add 2 eggs; butter size of an egg; 

salt and sugar to taste. Do not put in raisins until it begins to thicken. 

Bake 2 hours, stirring occasionally at first, so it will not custard on top. 

Jennie Noetheup. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
One pint bread crumbs; 1 quart of milk; 1 large lemon, gratied; 3 
eggs. Save whites for meringue. Miss Willson. 

PIE-PLANT CHAELOTTE. 
Cut the pie-plant into small pieces. Cover the bottom of a pudding 
dish with a layer of pie-plant and sugar, then a layer of bread crumbs and 
bits of butter, or thin slices of bread, nicely buttered, and continue until 
the dish is full. Bake. Miss Willson. 

BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 

Soak stale bread crumbs in hot water in the proportion of 1 cup 
of crimibs to 1 pint of milk. For each cup of crumbs and pint of milk, 
add 1 teaspoon of butter; 14 cup of molasses; 1 teaspoon of salt; 1 
saltspoon of cloves and cinnamon, mix. When cool, add in the same pro- 
portion 3 eggs, well beaten; 1 cup of canned peaches drained from 
syrup and chopped; 2 cups of currant* and stoned raisins mixed. Bake 
in an earthen pudding-dish 3 houra in a slow oven. Place a tin cover 
over the top of the dish. Sauce: One small cup of sugar; 1-3 cup of 
butter; 1 heaping teaspoon of flour; 1 egg. Mix all smooth and then 
add % pint of boiling water; % tumbler melted currant jelly. 

Eva Elliott. 
PLUM PUDDING. 

Two lbs. bread crumbs; l%.lbs. currants; II/2 lbs. raisins; 1 lb. 
sugar; 1 lb. suet; I/4 lb. lemon peel; 1 lb. flour; 2 teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder; 1 teaspoon of mixed spice; 2 eggs; 2 lemons. Method: 
Mix all together, moisten with milk, allow mixture to stand all night, 
then boil 6 hours. Mes. A. B. Cotton. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 

Mrs. John Sabin. 
One cup of molasses ; 1 cup of sweet milk ; % cupj of butter ; 4 cups 
of flour ; 1 cup of raisins ; 1 teaspoon of soda. Boil 3 hours in steamer. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 71 

PEUNE PUDDING. 
One-half lb. prunes boiled well done, drained, stoned, and chopped 
fine; whites of 5 eggs beaten light; a pincih of salt; 1 cup of sugar. 
Stir all in a pudding dish, set the dish in a pan with a little boiling 
water in it, cover and bake 30 minutes, uncover and brown. Serve with 
whipped cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 

Mrs. a. E. Congdon. 

PEUNE WHIP. 
One-half pound prunes, cooked tender. Sweeten, take out pits, and 
chop fine. Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Add su^ar to taste, stir whites 
of eggs into prunes, and put same into greased pie-tin. Bake from 10 
to 20 minutes, or until brown. Serve with whipped cream or a boiled 
custard, made of the yolks of the eggs and milk. 

Mr.s, W. H. Buyan. 

PEUNE WHIP. 
Twenty-three prunes cooked, stoned, and m^ashed. Then add 1 cup 
of sugar; whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all together. 
Bake 20 minutes. To be eaten plain or with cream. 

Mes. a. a. Stanley. 

EOE DESSEET— A SAILOE'S DUFF. 
One-half cup of melter butter; 1 cup of cold water; 2 eggs; 2^/^ 
cups of flour; 4 teaspoons of baking powder; 1 cup of seeded raisins, or. 
any kind of fruit. Dredge fruit with part of the flour, put in pail with 
cover, place in kettle of hot water and let boil 11^ hours. Sauce: Mix 
1 c-up of sugar with ^^ cup of butter, stir 1 teaspoon of flour in a little 
cold water, add to this mixture 1 cup of boiling water, let boil until it 
thickens, then flavor to taste. Mrs. Mary A. Turner. 

SUET PUDDING. 
Three cups of flour; 1 cup of molasses; 1 cup of suet; 1 cup of 
milk; 1 cup of stoned raisins; 1 cup of citron cut small or chopped; 1 
cup of currants; 1 teaspoon cinnamon; % teaspoon of cloves; % tea- 
spoon nutmeg ; Yi teaspoon of mace ; % teaspoon of soda. Mix molasses 
and sodal well together, add the milk and suet, then flour and spices last. 
Steam or boil at least 4 hours. Sauce : One cup of sugar ; % cup of 
'butter; 1 egg. Do not boil, but let the whole cream by putting it in a 
farina kettle and heating it gradually. Jennie Northrup. 



,72 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

STEAMED BEEAD PUDDING. 
One cup of molasses; 1 cup of raisins; 1 cup of iiot water; 1 cup 
of raisins; 1 cup of flour; 2 cups of fine bread crumbs; 1 teaspoon of 
soda ; 1 tablespoon of butter ; 1 egg ; spices to taste. Steam for 3 hours, 
then dry in the oven % hour. Serve with any kind of sauce. , 

Mrs. M. L. Van De Bogakt. 

SUET PUDDING. 
One-half cup of molasses ; I/2 cup of sweet milk ; 1 1-3 cups of gra- 
ham flour; salt; 1 egg; % cup of chopped suet; 1 small teaspoon each 
of soda, cinnamon, cloves. Add nutmeg and raisins. Steam about l^^ 
hours. C. E. Moore. 

SUET PUDDING. 
One cup of suet ; 3% cups of flour ; 1, cup of raisins ; 1 cup of cur- 
rants; 1 small cup of molasses; spice to taste; 1 dessertspoonful of bak- 
ing powder. Bake in good oven about % hour. Mrs. MoWhorter. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
One cup of tapioca soaked over night; 1 cup of sugar; yolks of 3 
eggs; whites for frosting top; a little salt; 1 quart of milk. 

Mrs. G. M. Pashlet. 



EGGS. 

EG<31 SANDWICHES. 
Eub the hardboiled yolks of eggs through a sieve, season with salt, 
pepper, mustard and lemon Juice and mix to a paste with cream. Spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread. JFor varied results add grated 
cheese, nuts or ham to the paste. Jessie M. Johnson". 

FEENCH OMELET. 
One qt. of milk; 1 pint of bread crumbs; 5 eggs; 1 tablespoon of 
flour; 1 onion chopped fine; chopped parsley. Season with pepper and 
salt. Have butter melted- in a spider. When omelet is brown, turn it 
over. Double when served. Miss Willson. 

ITALIAN EGGS. 
Boil eggs hard, cut in half (lengthwise), put on cream sauce, sea- 
son, add grated oheese and brown in oven. Marion E. Clapp. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 73 

OMELET. 
Three eggs, 1 cup of milk; salt; 3 teaspoons of flour. Put yolks 
of eggs, flour and milk together, then add whites, well beaten, on top. 
Put in hot buttered frying pan and let stand on top of stove until it 
sets, then brown in oven. C. B. Moore. 



FISH, AND SHELL FISH. 



DEVILED CLAMS. 
Twenty-five clams; 4 hard boiled eggs; % cup of bread crumbs 
moistened with a little milk; 4 tablespoons of melted butter; season to 
taste. Add a little prepared mustard, 1 small onion chopped fine. Put 
mixture in clam shells and sprinkle bread crumbs over them. Bake 
in hot oven 35 or 30 minutes. Have mixture quite wet. 

Mhs. E. J. CUETIS. 

COD-PISH BALLS. 
Pick the fish fine and freshen. Boil potatoes and mash them.- Mix 
fish and potatoes together while hot, taking 3-3 potatoes and 1-3 fish. 
Put in plenty of butter, make into balls, and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. H. p. O'Netl. 

FISH PUFF. 

One-half cup of cod-fish; 1 cup of potatoes. Boil together, mash, 
and season with butter and pepper. Add 3 beaten eggs. When cold fry 
as an omelet. ' Miss Willson. 

PISH TIMBALES. 
Cook together for 10 minutes % cup of stale bread and 1 cup of 
cream, add 3 tablespoons of soft butter, 1 teaspoon of salt, a little pepper, 
3 beaten yolks. Cook slightly, and mix with 1% cups cooked fish, add 
stiffly beaten whites, fill buttered timbales molds and .steam % hour. 
Serre with Hollandaise sauce. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

OYSTERS, SCALLOPED. 
One quart oysters; 1 pint of soft bread crumbs; ^ cup oyster 
liquor or cream ; ^4 c^P of butter ; salt and pepper to taste. Drain 
oysters, wash through 3 waters, drain again. Put oyster liquor over fire 



74 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

and remove scum when it reaches boiling point. Melt butter and rub into 
bread crumbs. Put thin layer crumbs in dish, then large layer oysters, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and so on. Add liquor or cream and bake 
in hot oven 20 minutes. To be perfect, there should be only 2 layers oys- 
ters. Mrs. C. a. Martin. 

CREAM OF SALMOX. 

For 1 can of salmon rub 1 tablespoon of flour and one of butter 
together in frying-pan; when melted add 1% cups of milk, then salmon. 
When done squeeze in juice of 1 lemon and pour the whole over toasted 
bread. Mrs. H. T. H. 

SALMON (RECHAUFFE). 

One cup of cold boiled spaghetti, cut small ; 1 cup drawn butter ; 1 
pgg beaten light; 2 cups of cold cooked salmon "picked up" with fork; 
1 tablespoon capers. Heat butter, mix spaghetti and fish, season, add 
capers and stir lightly into sauce, breaking fish as little as possible. 
When mixture bubbles all over, fold in eggs with long, even strokes and 
serve. ^Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 
One can salmon, 1 egg well beaten, ^ cup of bread crumbs, salt, 
dash of cayenne pepper, juice of % lemon. Drain off liquor and mince 
the fish; melt and work in 1 tablespoon of butter; moisten with some 
of the liquor ; add crumbs, flour the parts into rolls, stand in a cool place 
for 1 hour, fry in hot lard. Mrs. John Sabin. 

SALMON AU GRATIN. 
Bone and flake a can of salmon. Make a gravy of flour and water 
and a little butter. When of the c-onsistency of syrup, stir in the salmon 
with a half a cup of grated cheese and a pinch of salt. Serve hot. 

^Ibs. H. J. Webbee. 

ESCALLOPED SALMON. 
Pick fine 1 can of salmon, add grated onion and salt and pepper to 
taste. Boil 1 pint of milk, mix •? tablespoons of flour, butter size of an 
egg, add to the hot milk and let all thicken. Add 2 well beaten eggs 
and salmon to the milk, putting fine bread crumbs on top. Bake 
in quick oven, the salmon may be added in layers. 

Jennie Northrup. 



THE USEFUL 00 OK BOOK 75 

SALMON" LOAF. 
Melt 3 tablespoons of butter in a sauce-pan ; add 2 eggs well beaten, 
2-3 of a cup of cracker crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, and all fish 
from 1 can of salmon, and add to above mixture. Work until very fine, 
put in greased baking powder can, cover and steam 1 hour. Eemove 
from can while hot and set on ice. Serve sliced on platter, garnished 
with hard boiled eggs, parsley and quarters of lemon. 

Mrs. John Sabin. 

BAKED SAEDINBS. 
Toast erustless slices of bread, and butter them. Place drained sar- 
dines on granite plate and squeeze over them a few drops of lemon juice. 
Sprinkle with fine cracker crumbs. Set in oven and bake 10 minutes. 
Place on toast and serve wifth tomato sauce. Tomato Sauce: One can 
tomatoes, strained; 1 teaspoon of butter; 2 teaspoons of fiour; l^ tea- 
spoon of onion juice; 1 teaspoon of sugar; salt and pepper to taste. 

Lauka MoKay. 

SAEDINES CANAPES. 
Eemove skin and bones from sardines and mash to a paste. Season 
with lemon juice. Spread on round of entire wheat bread. Lay a ring 
of the white of a hard boiled egg in the center, and fill the space with 
minced olives. Surround the ring with sifted yolk of egg. 

Laura McELiY. 

SHAD, STUFFED. 
Fill Ash with forcemeat of well seasoned bread crumbs in which 
have been chopped % dozen large, fresh mushrooms or y^ can of cham- 
pignons. Sew fish up, dredge with salted fiour and lay in dripper on 
very thin slices of salt pork. Cover with more pork as thin as writing 
paper. Adi small cup of hot water, cover, cook 13 minutes to the lb., 
basting frequently with butter and water to which has been added juice 
of lemon. G-arnish with crisp pork and make sauce by straining liquor 
and thickening with brown flour. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 



MEATS. 



CALVES' LIVEE EN CASSEEOLE. 
The liver should be left whole and either larded or covered with 
slices of bacon or salt pork, as preferred. Place in casserole on layer of 



76 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

(Shopped or diced vegetables, surround with same, and add seasoning and 
cup of stock or hot water. Cover and cook in moderate oven about 1 
hour. Vegetables, 1 cup of celery, i/i cup each turnips, carrots, onions 
and a little parsley. Potato balls may be added last half hour if desired. 

Mes. C. a. Maetin. 

BEEF LOAF. 
Use round steak ; for every pound, use 1/4 pound of salt pork. Put 
all this through the meat grinder, add i^ cup of bread crumbs, 1-3 cup 
oi water, 1 egg, l^ teaspoon of salt and a little pepper. Form in a loaf in 
a pan and lay thin strips of salt pork over the top. Bake in a quick 
oven, allowing about 30 minutes to a pound. 

Mks. H. Wade Hibbaed. 

BEEP LOAF. 
One ib. chopped lean beef; i/4 &• fat pork (fresh preferred); 1 
beaten egg ; ^2 cup of fine crumbs. Season with salt and pepper, mix into 
loaf. Bake 1 hour. Mes. M. A. Geant. 

BEEF LOAF. 
Three lbs. beef run through a chopper ; 14 *• of salt pork ; 1 cup of 
cracker crumbs; 3 eggs, well beaten; % teaspoons of salt; 1 teaspoon 
of pepper ; sage to taste. Make in loaf, and bake 3% hours. Put a little 
water in pan and baste often. C. E. Mooee. 

BEEF TONGUE A LA JAEDINIEEE OR EN CASSEEOLE. 

Boil a fresh beef's tongue 1 hour. Skin, trim and lay in roaster or 
casserole upon a layer of vegetables cut into dice — carrots, turnips, celery 
and potatoes, peas, beans, button onions, small round tomatoes. Pour 
over some of liquor in which tongue was boiled, cover, cook slowly for 2 
hours. Eemove tongue to platter and arrange vegetables in sorted heaps 
about it and keep hot while gravy is being thickened with browned flour. 
Pour some gravy over all and send rest to table in sauce boat. 

Mes. C. a. Maetin. 
PRESSED BEEP. 

Five lbs. of beef, boiled until tender; pass through food-chopper 
while warm, then add the liquor, and season -to taste. Put in tin and 
press. Yolk of 1 egg and 2 tablespoons of milk beaten together and 
spread over top. Balce 10 minutes in hot oven. On removing from 
same, cover with cloth to hold steam. -Mes. C. W. Scott. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 17 

BEEF STEW. 
Cut round steak into mouthfuls, pour boiling water on and cook 
until tender. Season with salt and pepper and thicken the gravy with 
flour. Jennie Northeup. 

MOCK EABBIT (A GEEMAN SUPPER DISH). 
Mix 1 ft. of raw chopped beef, and as much lean veal, also chopped, 
with 4 eggs, 1 cup of bread crumbs, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, pars- 
ley, thyme, and a teaspoonful of onion juice. Beat all well, and shape 
en a dish into an oval loaf. Cover with egg and bread crumbs; put in 
a pan lined with sliced bacon, and cover with a layer of bacon. Bake 
about 40 minutes. Serve hot or cold in slices. Mrs. H. J. Webber. 

SAUSAGE SEASOFING. 
Three ounces of salt, 2 ounces of pepper, l^ ounce saltpetre, 1 table- 
spoon of sage, to 10 fts. of meat. Mix all together before grinding. 

Mrs. J. E. Updike. 

SAUSAGE LOAF— FOE COLD MEAT. 
Three pounds of sausage ; I/2 pound of London crackers. Roll and 
mix thoroughly with- the sausage. Eub outside of loaf with batter of 
egg and crackers. Bake 1% hours in a moderately hot oven. Use no 
watpr. Harriet Hollister. 

VEAL LOAF. 
Two fts. chopped veal; %, Si- chopped salt pork; 1 cup cracker 
crumbs; 2 eggs; 2 teaspoons each of pepper and salt. Mix well, press 
Ja tin, steam or halve 3 hours. Serve cold. Mrs. F. J. Woodrufi'. 

VEAL LOAF. 
Pass through a chopper 3 pounds of veal with 2 strips of salt pork. 
Roll fine 6 large crackers; beat, without separating, 2 eggs. Put in a 
dish and add 1 teaspoon of suet, 1 teaspoon of pepper, 2 tablespoons of 
milk, 1 grated nutmeg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, form into a 
loaf and bake 2 hours in a moderate oven. Ruth V. Sackett. 

SPICED VEAL OR BEEP. 
Three fts. veal chopped fine, 1 scant tablespoon of pepper, 1 scant 
tablespoon of salt, 2 scant tablespoons of butter, 2 eggs, 10 crackers, 4 
tablespoons of cream or milk, a little hot water; bake slowly 2 hours, 
basting occasionally with milk. _ Jennie Northrup. 



78 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

CUEEIED VEAL. 
Cut cold veal into small pieces. Fry 3 small onions in l^ cup of 
butter until brown, remove onions, add meat and 1 teaspoon of curry 
powder and cover with boiling water. Let cook slowly 15 minutes. 
Thicken slightly with flour. Turn on platter and serve with a border 
of cooked rice. Cold beef can be prepared the same way. 

Mhs. McKay. 

VEAL POT-PIE. 

Take a piece of veal, either the hind knuckle or brisket end of the 
breast, and boil until tender. Take out part of the liquor that the meat 
is cooked in, leaving enough in the kettle with the meat so it will not 
boil dry in half an hour. Take 1 quart of flour, 4 even teaspoons of 
baking powder ; half a teaspoon of salt, 1 tablespoon of shortening. Mix 
the flour, salt and baking powder thoroughly, rub in the shortening, then 
add milk until it is just as thin as you can have it and roll. Cut in 
oblong pieces and place over the meat, being careful not to let it i oijie 
in contact with the liquor, cover tight and let steam 20 minutes. Serve 
when done. Jennie XoETHRrp. 

DUMPLINGS (GOOD.) 
One cup of flour ; 1 teaspoon of baking powder ; 3 heaping teaspoons 
of corn-starch; one-quarter teaspoon of salt. Add enough sweet milk to 
make a stiff dough. Drop by the spoonsful, and boil 15 or 30 minutes. 
This quantity will serve four people. They are just as lio:ht when cold 
as biscuit. Mrs. K. D. Clapp. 

MEATS (LEPT-OVBE). 
Use any kind of cooked meat, freed from skin, bone or any uneat- 
able part. Cover with boiling water, add 1 or 2 onions, or stalks of cel- 
ery, or slices of turnip or carrots. Simmer until meat is nearly tender. 
Then add as many raw potatoes, cut small, as you have meat, and cook 
20 minutes longer. Thicken the liquid with flour wet in cold water, 
add salt and pepper to taste, and serve with or without dumplings. 

:\[RS. S. J. 

CEOQUETTES. 

To use "left-over" bits of meat. 
To 3 cups of chopped meat, seasoned with salt and pepper, and a 
little onion if desired, add 1 cup of white sauce, tlien add enough bread 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 79 

crumbs, or shredded wheat crumbs, to thicken so it can be shaped into 
croquettes. Roll in egg ajid crumbs and fry in deep fat until a golden 
brown. These are especially good with tomato sauce poured over them. 

Mrs. J. L. Stone. 

COLD HAM LEFT OVBE. 
An appetizing dish for supper can be made by cutting oft' all the 
bits of .ham from a ham-bone and grinding them in the meat grinder. 
Then put the ground, ham into an equal quantity of white sauce. Pile 
the center of the dish with hard boiled eggs cut in two, and pour the ham 
mixture around. Mrs. H. Wade Hibbard. 

BAKED HASH. 
Mix 1 pint of cold chopped beef, either roast or corned, and half a 
pint chopped cold potato; add about 1 cupful of gravy, 1 teaspoon of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Bake about an hour in a rather slow 
oven. Mrs. H. L. Con lee. 

FRENCH HASH. 
Chop any kind of cold meat, though beef is preferable. Moisten 
with a little stock and season. Form into patties. Put mashed potato 
about 1 inch deep on top. Put in oven to brown. When done, break an 
egg on and let it cook soft. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. C. E. Courtney. 

SPICED HASH. 
Chop fine 1 pint of any kind of cold meat, add I quart of mashed 
potato, 2 eggs, mix all together thoroughly, season with salt, pepper and 
cinnamon, pack in a dish, make quite moist by pouring milk over it, 
bake brown. Roena L. Shepard. 

UNIVERSITY HASH. 

One teacup of chopped meat, 1 teacup of cooked rice, 1 coffee cup of 
sweet milk, 1 tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Stir and 
cook 15 minutes on top of stove, then add 1 egg, after which put in 
oven and bake from one-half to one hour. Try like custard to tell when 
done. Netta Brown. 

MEAT BALLS. 

To ev^ry pint of finely minced cold meat allow half a pint of bread 
crumbs. Season the meat with pepper and. salt and a little Worcester- 



80 TEE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

shire sauce and a few drops of onion juice. Mix all together with 1 egg 
and 1 even tablespoon of melted butter. Mould in round cakes. Brown 
on both sides in a spider. Helena B. Hill. 

MEAT PIE. 

Use left-over pieces of meat and gravy as, follows: Cook half an 

hour, or until tender, 2 or 3 onions, 2 potatoes, half a cup of rice (or 

other vegetables) till nearly dry. Add meat and gravy, cover vdth 

• biscuit crust and bake. Improved if a little gravy is saved to serve 

with it. Mrs. L. C. P. 

Stew any kind of cooked meat slowly until tender, thicken and sea- 
son the liquor to taste, add onions, tomatoes, mushrooms or any flavor 
preferred. Put into a deep baking dish and cover with mashed potato 
or with biscuit crust. Make an incision for steam to escape and bake 
until crust is done. Mrs. S. J. 

MEAT SOUFFLE. 

One cup of cold meat chopped fine; 1 cup of cream sauce; 2 eggs; 
onion juice. Put meat in hot cream sauce and boil 1 minute; add beaten 
yolks of 3 eggs, onion juice, pepper and salt; heat and take from fire 
at once; let cool. Add whites of 2 eggs beaten very stiff. Cook 20 min- 
utes in very hot oven. Mrs. M. A. Grant. 

SCALLOPED MEAT. 
Put in a baking dish, layers of cold cooked meat,- sliced or diced 
(stewed first until tender). Moisten with gravy or sauce and alternate 
with cold rice, macaroni, oysters or the stuffing of meat. Cover with 
buttered cracker crumbs and bake about 20 minutes. Mrs. S. J. 

SCALLOPED MEAT ("LEPT-OVEES"). 
Chop meat very fine; put a layer of meat in baking dish; layer of 
cold boiled potatoes chopped fine. Wten all is used, put a la;yer of 
cracker crumbs on top, dot with butter, fill with milk and bake. Season 
with onion if desired. Mrs. Ltdia Hemingv^at. 

TOMATO MEAT BALLS. 
To every pint of finely minced meat (lef<H)ver of any meat will 
do), add 1 pint of finely crushed bread or cracker crumbs; 3 ripe or 
half a can of tomatoes; 1 onion minced (good size). Season with salt 
and pepper to taste. Mix in small balls and dip in egg ; then in breai 
crumbs. Fry in butter or deep fat. Helena E. Hill. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 81 

.^ TO USB COLD MEAT. 

One cup of meat chopped fine ; half a cup of boiled rice ; half a cup 
of milk ; butter, pepper and salt to taste ; place in dish, cover the top with 
powdered crackers ; place small lumps of butter over crackers and bake 1 
hour in moderate oven. Mrs. John Sabin. 



POULTRY 

CEEAMED CHICKEN. 
Take cold chicken or left-over; remove all skin and sinew. Add a 
little stock or water to moisten, and season with salt, pepper and butter. 
Let simmer for a time, then thicken with cornstarch or flour. Cut pieces 
of bread round with biscuit cutter, toast, dip in hot butter, lay on plat- 
ter and pour chicken over the top. This is delicious. 

Mes. C. E. Courtney, 

CRUST FOE CHICKEN PIE. 
One quart of sifted flour; sift 1 teaspoon of salt, 4 teaspoons of 
baking powder with flour. Then rub half a cup of butter or lard through 
flour ; use milk to make a soft dough, and then drop in dish for baking. 

Mes. G. R. Harvey. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE. 
Clean and bind as for roasting a tender chicken; put into casserole 
2 tablespoons of butter, a tablespoon of onion Juice, minced parsley, bay- 
leaf. Set in oven till hot, lay in chicken, pour on pint of consomme, 
cover, cook three-quarters of an hour or more, according to size. Add 20 
potato balls fried light brown, 12 mushrooms or half a can champignons. 
Leave three-quarters of an hour longer, remove chicken and potatoes to 
platter, thicken gravy with brown roux in frying-pan. Pour part over 
chicken and serve, sending rest of gravy in sauce-boat. 

Mrs. C. a. Martin. 



PIES AND PASTRY 



BANANA PIE. 

One and a half cups of milk, a little salt, and beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 
mix. Into half a cup of sugar stir 1 tablespoon cornstarch, and add to 
the milk when hot. After it thickens remove from fire and add 1 tea- 



82 TEE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

spoon of vanilla. Have ready a baked crust on which is sliced ii bananas, 
over which pour the custard. Beat the whites of the eggs, add 1 table- 
spoon of sugar, put on pie, and brown in the oven. 

Mks. E. C. Buck. 

GUREANT PIE. 

One cup mashed ripe currants; 1 cup of sugar; 2 tablespoons wat^r; 
2 tablespoon of flour, beaten with the yolks of 2 eggs. Bake with under 
crust, frost the top with the beaten whites of the eggs and 3 tablespoons 
of powdered sugar, and brown in the oven. 

ilKs. Martha Boviee. 

LEMON" PIE (FOE ONE PIE.) 

Two lemons; 2 cups of white sugar; 1 cup of milk; yolks of 6 eggs; 
2 tablespoons of cornstarch; slice lemons fine, and stir in with sugar; 
dissolve the cornstarch in the milk, add the yoUis, stir all together. Line 
a deep tin with pie-crust, put in the mixture and bake. Beat the whites 
to a stiff froth with 8 tablespoons of sifted white sugar, and spread over 
the top,, and put in the oven to dry. Mrs. H. Amanda Wilcox. 

CEUST FOE ON^E PIE. 

Five tablespoons of flour; 1 heaping tablespoon of lard. A little 
salt. Makes crust for 1 pie. Mrs. Lydia Hemixgway. 

EAISIN PIE. 

Boil 1 pound seeded raisins until soft in a little water, add the 
juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar and 1 tablespoon flour, mixed together. 
Bake in two crusts. This will fill two small pies. 

Mrs. H. L. Coxlee. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Put 1 pint of milk on stove, beat the yolks of 2 eggs and stir in milk, 
add a little salt, 1 square of chocolate allowed to dissolve in milk. Mix 
half a cup of sugar and 1 heaping tablespoon of cornstarch together, 
stir in when milk is hot. Flavor with vanilla, and put in a bailed crust. 
Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add 3 tablespoons of sugar. 
Flavor with vanilla, spread on pie and brown in oven. 

Mrs. E. C. Buck. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 83 

One cup of sugar; 3 large tablespoonfnlfi of floui'; 3 tablespoonfuls 
of chocolate. Stir together dry, then stir it into 11/^ cups of boiling 
water, boil for a few minutes, stirring all the time, then pour into baked 
crust and ice. Mrs. Hattie Cakpen'tee. 

Four tablespoons of grated chocolate; 1 pint of boiling water; yolks 
2 eggs; 6 tablespoons of sugar; 2 tablespoons of cornstarch. Mix, stir 
and cook until thick, season with vanilla. Put on baked crust, and use 
whites of eggs for meringue. Mrs; Geo. A. Dueling. 

COENSTAECH PIE. 
Make a rich crust and bake in plate. Scald 1 pint of milk, add 2 
tablespoons of cornstarch, 1 egg well beaten, a little salt;. sugar to taste. 
When cooked add flavoring, either lemon or vanilla. Put in crust, make 
a frosting with whites of 2 eggs (1 will do), and 2 or 3 tablespoons of 
sugar. Spread over, eat cold. Jennie Northrup. 

CEBAM PIE. 
Heat 1 pint of milk to the boiling point; add 2 tablespoons of corn- , 
starch, half a cup of sugar, 2 eggs, flavor with vanilla. Bake an under 
crust first, then pour in the above. Use the 2 whites of eggs for frost- 
- ing; set in oven for few minutes. Mrs. Laura Furman. 

BOSTON CEEAM PIE. 
Put on a pint of milk to boil. Break 2 eggs in a dish, add 1 cup of 
sugar and half a cup of flour previously, mixed. After beating well stir 
into milk just as it begins to boil, add small piece of butter, and stir one 
way until it thickens. Wlien a little cool flavor to taste. Fill pastry 
shell. Mes. H. p. O'Neill. 

DEDHAM CEEAM PIE. 

One quart of milk; yolks of 3 eggs; 1 cup of sugar; 1 large lemon, 
pulp and rind grated. Boil as for custard, bake crust and fill with cus- 
tard, using whites of eggs for frpsting. This makes 2 pies and is deli- 
cious. ' Miss Willson. 
SPONGE CEEAM PIE. 

Two eggs ; half a cup of sugar ; 4 teaspoons of melted butter ; vanilla 
or lemon ; 1 cup of flour. Beat eggs and sugar to a cream . Put milk, 
melted butter and flavoring into a cup. Mix them and add to creamed 
eggs and sugar, stirring but slightly. Add flour and fold in. Bake in 
two pie tins. Miss Willson. 



84 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

ELDERBEERIES FOR PIES. 
Four quarts of berries; half a pint of vinegar; half a pint of mo- 
lasses; 3 lbs. sugar; 1 lemon; cinnamon and cloves. 

Mrs. M. a. Geant. 

PILLING FOR GREEN TOMATO PIE. 
One quart green tomatoes, chopped ; 1 quart apples, chopped ; 2 cups 
of brown sugar; half a cup of vinegar; 1 cup of molasses; 1 cup of 
raisins ; 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg ; half a teaspoon 
of salt; butter size of an egg; boil slowly for 1 hour. 

Mrs. W. H. Bktan. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind and juice of a lemon; 1 cup of water; 1 cup of sugar; 
yolks of 3 eggs; piece of butter; slice of grated bread. 

Method: Line a dish with pastry; add mixture; after baking, add 
whites of eggs. ilRS. A. B. Cotton. 

LEMON PIE. 

One teacup of sugar; 1 teaspoon (scant) of butter; 8 eggs; juice 
and grated rind of 1 lemon; 1 teacup of boiling water; 1 tablespoon of 
flour, dissolved in a little cold water. Stir the dissolved flour into the 
hot water, add the butter and sugar and cook until clear, taking care 
that it does not scorch. Remove to edge of range, add well beaten yolks 
of eggs and lemon and put into shells of paste already baked. Whip the 
whites stiff, add % teaspoons of sugar, a few drops of lemon juice spread 
on pie, and brown in a slow oven. Mrs. G. R. Harvey. 

One lemon, peeled and grated in a bowl, then add 1 cup of sugar, 
1 tablespoon of flour, stirred in sugar ; 1 beaten egg, 1 cup of water. Mix 
well before adding the water. Bake with top crust. 

Mrs. 0. G. Emmons. 

DELICIOUS LEMON PIE. 
Two lemons ; 2 apples ; 3 cups of- sugar ; 4 eggs. Remove seeds and 
grate rind and pulp of lemon; grate apples; add sugar and well beaten 
eggs. Bake with 2 crusts. This quantity makes 3 medium sized pies. 
Half the recipe can be used. Mrs. E. J. Seamon. 

LEMON PIE WITH RAISINS. 
Three good sized lemons, roll till soft, put the juice in a dish. Chop 
the peel fine. Seed and chop a cupful of raisins and mix all together 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 85 

with iy2 cups of molasses. Stir well, and add a little flour and water. 
Do not hurry the baking or it will run out. Bake with 2 crusts. This 
makes 2 pies. Miss Willson. 

MINCE MEAT (ASTOE HOUSE.) 

Four lbs. lean boiled beef, chopped fine; 8 lbs. chopped green tart 
apples; 1 lb. chopped suet; 3 lbs. raisins; 2 lbs. currants; half lb. citron 
chopped fine; 1 lb. brown sugar; 1 quart cooking molasses; 2 quarts 
sweet cider ; 1 pint boiled cider ; 1 tablespoon each of pepper, salt, mace, 
allspice ; 4 tablespoons of ciimamon ; 2 grated nutmegs ; 1 tablespoon of 
c'vves, mix thoroughly and warm through. Mni-'. 11. P. 0'Nj;i. . 

MINCE MEAT. 

One cup chopped meat; 2 cups chopped apple; iy2 cups of raisins; 
1% cups of currants; l^/^ cupsof brown sugar; one-third cup of molasses 
or 1 cup of granulated sugar; 1 cup of meat liquor; 2 teaspoons of salt 
and cinnamon ; half a teaspoon of mace ; half a teaspoon powdered cloves ; 
1 lemon, grated rind and Juice ; piece of citron ; 3 teaspoons of rosewater 
(if desired) . Mix in order given. Use enough meat liquor (meat from 
lower part of round with little fat) to make quite moist. Cook until 
apples and raisins are soft. Then add 1 cup of boiling sweet cider; 1 
cup of chopped suet also adds to the mixture. 

Mahian B. Clapp. 

MOCK CHBEEY PIE. 

One cup of cranberries; half a cup of raisins; 1 cup of sugar; half 
a cup of water; 1 tablespoon of flour. Cook all together before putting 
in crust. H. A. C. 

PIE-PLANT PIE. 

Cut pie-plant into_lower crust; 1 egg; 2 heaping tablespoons of 
flour; 1 cup of sugar; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Mix all together, pour on 
crust, and add upper crust. Mrs. Jared Chaddook. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 
Two cups sifted pumpkin; 3 cups of milk; 1 large cup of sugar; 
half a cup of molasses; 1 tablespoon of flour; a pinch of salt; 1 table 
spoon of ginger; 2 eggs; 1 tablespoon of cinnamon. Mix sugar, flour 
and spices together to prevent lumping. Will make 2 good sized pies. 

Mrs. E. C. Carpenter. 



86 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

EGGLESS PUMPKIN PIE (FOE ONE DEEP PIE). 
One large cup of pumpkin; 1 small cup of sugar; t small cups of 
milk; 1 tablespoon of fiour; half a teaspoon of ginger (if liked) ; half a 
teaspoon of cinnamon; salt to taste. Stir sugar, spice, flour and pump- 
kin until smooth; then add hot milk and bake slowly 1 hour, increasing 
heat at the last half hour so as to brown slightly. 

Mrs. Marian Cahpenteh. 

CEEAM PUFFS. 

Half a cup of butter and 1 cup of hot water. Set on stove and let 
come to a boil, and while boiling add 1 cup of flour. Stir in well and re- 
move from stove and let cool. When cool, stir in 3 eggs, one after the 
other, without beating; drop on buttered tins and bake in hot oven 30 
minutes. Filling: 1 cup of milk, one-quarter cup of sugar; 1 egg; small 
tablespoon cornstarch. Cook as custard and flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. C. M. Doyle. 



TARTS 



COENSTAECH TAETS. 

Line 3 layer cake tins with flaky pie-crust rolled very thin, prick 
with a fork and bake. Spread the layers with . cornstarch cream, made 
as follows: 1 cup of sweet milk; half a cup of sugar; butter size of a 
hickory nut ; 1 egg ; 1 tablespoon of cornstarch. Be sure to have crust 
and cream cold before spreading. Slide on a large, round plate and 
cover with whipped cream and little blocks of jelly. 

EuTH V. Saokett. 

LEMON BUTTEE FOE TAETS. 

Two large or 3 small lemons; 3 eggs, well beaten; 2 cups of sugar; 
butter half the size of an egg. ;\tix well and oook in double boiler, stir- 
ring until thick. Mrs. Laura Fue.\[an. 

TAETS. 

One egg; 1 cup of lai^; 4 tablespoons of water; 1 tablespoon of 
sugar; pifich of salt; just enough flour to roll nicely. Bake quickly. 

Mrs. Laura Furmax. 



THE USEFUL COOK __BOOK ' 87 

SALADS 



BANANA SALAD. 
Slice bananas tMn witti silver knife, break up some English walnut 
meats (hickory nuts if more convenient) , mix and serve with salad dress- 
ing on lettuce leaves. Or cut bananas in half lengthwise, roll in ground 
nuts, and serve on lettuce leaves with spoonful of salad dressing (mayon- 
naise or other) beside banana. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

BEET SALAD. 
Take the blood-red beet, boil thoroughly and dice; a little salt. 
Pour over all salad dressing. Garnish. Miss Willson". 

COEN SALAD. 
One dozen ears sweet corn; 3 tablespoons of salt; 1 head cabbage 
(large) ; 2 red peppers; 1 cup of sugar; 2 quarts vinegar; 2 tablespoons 
of ground mustard ; 1 teaspoon of turmeric. Chop and salt cabbage, then 
drain. Cut corn from ears, mix together all ingredients except turmeric, 
boil until tender, then add turmeric to give color, and bottle or can for 
winter use. Nice 'used as a pickle. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

Eighteen ears of corn ; 1 large head of cabbage, shaved, not chopped ; 
3 green and 1 ripe peppers chopped fine, with seeds removed; 4 cups of 
sugar ; 2 quarts of vinegar ; 4 onions chopped ; three-quarters cup of salt ; 
half a teaspoon -of celery seed; 5c. worth ground mustard. Cook three- 
quarters of an hour. Mrs. I. A. Brown. 

EGG- SALAD. 
Boil 8 eggs hard and let them get cold. Grate the yoUcs, add 1 tea- 
spoon of dry mustard, salt to taste, a trifle «f cayenne pepper and oil 
enough to make a paste. Takes whites of eggs chopped fine, some lettuce 
torn in small pieces well dried> 1 teaspoon of finely chopped onion. Add 
3 or 4 tablespoons of vinegar and mix all thoroughly. Lay small leaves 
of lettuce in dish before putting in salad. Jennie Northrup. 

POTATO SALAD. 
Sliced boiled potatoes, and while hot pour' over them sufficient 
French dressing to which 1 teaspoonful of onion juice 'has been ad-led. 
T.ier stand until perfectly cold. JIrs. ETattie Carpenter. 



88 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

STRING BEAK SALAD. 
Break stem end off from beans, cut diagonally, cook tender in little 
salt water and little vinegar, cool, and serve with salad dressing. May 
be canned also in this way for winter use. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

TOMATO SALAD. 
Peel and remove seeds from round, uniform sized tomatoes, not too 
large. Pill with chopped celery mixed with about half the quantity 
of chopped nuts and some salad dressing. Serve on lettuce leaf, large 
nasturtium leaf, or garnish with parsley or celery tops. 

Mrs. C. a. Martin. 

Take the skin, seeds, and Juice from nice, fresh tomatoes. Chop 
what remains with celery. Pour over the whole, salad dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. Miss Willson. 

One can of tomatoes put through a puree strainer. This should 
'iLBhe about 3 cup>i. Put over tire and add spices (bay-leaf and cloves if 
you have not the prepared spices), a small onion, lemon and a little 
celery. Now add half a box Knox's gelatin which has been soaked in 
half a cup of cold water. Put through puree seive and then put in cups 
which have been rinsed in cold water, and let stand until firm. Put 
lettuce leaves on plate, then the tomato and pour a cream dressing over 
it, and it is ready to serve. C. B. Moore. 

TUNA PISH SALAD. 
Flake 1 can of the fish, sprinkle with a little salt, a dash of red 
pepper, and juice of half a lemon. Add 2 heads of lettuce, and mix with 
a good salad dressing. Mrs. John Sarin. 

WATEE-CEESS SALAD. 
Two bunches of water-cress, wash in cold water. Pry 3 slices of 
bacon crisp, cut up fine, add a pinch of salt and pepper. Mix with half 
a cup of salad dressing. Serve on a cold dish. Miss Willson. 



SAUCES AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

BEARNAISE SAUCE. 
Scald 2 tablespoons of tarragon vinegar and 2 of water with 1 small 
slice of onion. Rub 4 rounded tablespoons of butter till light and 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 89 

creamy; put into a small sauce-pan half a teaspoon of salt, a few grains 
of cayenne, yolks of 4 eggs and beat slightly. Remove onion, add hot 
vinegar to egg and mix well. Put over boiling water and cook carefully, 
stirring^ constantly until quite thick and smooth. Stir in creamed butter 
one-quarter at a time, stirring till well blended. 

Mrs. C. a. Maetin. 

CRANBEERY SAUCE. 

For any quantity take half as much sugar as cranberries (by meas- 
ure) and half as much water as sugar. After they begin to boil let them 
cook 10 minutes elosely covered. Avoid stirring, but turn pan fre- 
quently to insure uniform cooking. After 10 minutes remove cover, 
skim if necessary and press berries down under syrup, but do not mash. 
Remove from fire and cool. Syrup will be clear and almost a jelly. 

Mrs. C. a. Martin. 

MA-YONNAISE DRESSING. 

Yolks 3 eggs, a quarter teaspoon of salt, juice of half a lemon, 
cayenne pepper. Stir oil into yolks very slowly until they begin to 
thicken. Mrs. Hattie Carpenter. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One cup of vinegar, if strong add a little water ; 3 eggs, well beaten ; 
butter size of an egg; 1 teaspoon of mustard; 1 teaspoon of salt; a little 
pepper; 1 teaspoon of comstaroh; 3 teaspoons of sugar. Cook until it 
thickens, stirring to avoid lumps. Mrs. W. H. Bryan. 

Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of an egg. When melted 
add 1 tablespoon of flour, stir well, then add 1 cup of milk or water ; let 
it come to a boil. Have ready 3 well beaten eggs, mixed with 3 table- 
spoons of sugar; 1 teaspoon mustard; 1 cup of vinegar; salt, pepper (a 
pinch of red if desired) ; boil all a moment; if lumpy, strain it. Good 
with fruit, vegetables or nreat. If for fruit it should be a bit sweeter 
than for the others. , Mrs. M. B. Clinton. 

Yolks of 3 eggs; 5 tablespoons of vinegar; 1 teaspoon of mustard; 
1 teaspoon of sugar; butter size of hickory nut; sweet cream to thin. 
Mix eggs, mustard and sugar, also vinegar, and stir until it thickens. 



90 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

standing dish in vessel of boiling water or using double boiler. Add 
butter after removing from fire. When ready to serve, thin with sweet 
cream. Will keep a long time without cream. 

Mks. C. a. Martin. 

CBEAM SALAD DEESSING. 
Small tablespoon of sugar; half a teaspoon salt; 1 tcnspoon of mus- 
tard (small) ; 3 eggs; 4 tablespoons of vinegar. Cook t»gether in double 
boiler until it thickens. After taking from the stove, add butter the size 
of an egg ; thin to-proper consistency with sweet cream. 

Maet E. Moore. 

DEESSING FOE CABBAGE SALAD. 
One cup of sugar ; 1 cup of vinegar ; 1 teaspoon of mustard ; 2 table- 
spoons of flour; 1 teaspoon of salt; butter size of a walnut. Boil. When 
1 rol, add cream to thin it, or milk. i[ES. P. J. Woodropf. 

SALAD DEESSING FOE CABBAGE SALAD. 
One egg; 3 tablespoons of sugar; half a teaspoon of mustard; half 
a cup of vinegar. Cook until it thickens. jMrs. Eapplete. 

SOUE CEEAM DEESSING FOE BOILED BEETS. 
Half a cup thick, sour cream*; 1 level tablespoon of flour; a little 
weak vinegar. Boil until thickened and pour over diced and seasoned 
beets. -■ Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 
Melt 1 tablespoon of butter, add 1 tablespoon of flour as for white 
sauce and i cup of either canned or fresh tomatoes. Salt and pepper. 
Boil until thick like a white sauce. JIrs. J. L. Stone. 



SOUPS 



Soups will have a richer taste if part of the meat is browned in the 
spider, either before boiling or later, by using some of the fat from the 
kettle, and then returning all to the kettle again. 

Mrs. H. L. Conlee. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 91 

SOUP. BOUILLON. 

Select 4 lbs. of beef, lean and juicy, from the middle of the round. 
Wipe it and cut in small pieces, put part of it in a kettle with marrow 
and bone, add 2 quarts of cold water, 1 tablespoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of 
mixed whole spices, bit of bay-leaf. Brown remainder of meat in hot 
fat with 1 small onion; then put in kettle and let oome slowly to a boil, 
and cook at a gentle simmer until reduced to 3 pints. Strain, when cold 
remove fat, add salt and pepper, heat to boiling point, strain again into 
hot cups and serve at once. Mrs. C. A. Maetin. 

CHICKEN GUMBO. 

Cook an old fowl ^jointed) 5 or 6 hours in gallon of unsalted water. 
When liquid is reduced half set away with fowl in until next day. Skim 
off fat and strain out meat. Season stock with large grated onion, pep- 
per atid salt; add can of tomatoes, chopped fine^ and 3 dozen pods of 
okra cut into one-quarter inch bits, with tablespoon of butter rubbed up 
with flour. Cook for three-quarters of an hour. 

Mrs. C. a. 'Martin. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Add 3 quarts of water to liquor from 30 clams, bring to a boil, then 
add clams chopped, boil 3 minutes. Add 4 tablespoons of flour, 4 of but- 
ter, pint of milk, pepper and salt. Take from stove, add 3 eggs well 
beaten. Stir well and serve. Mrs. John Sabin. 

CLAM CHOWDBE POE 12 PEOPLE. 

Two slices salt pork; cut in small pieces and fry until brown; 6 
onions, medium size, chopped fine and fried until brown in pork; 12 
small potatoes, cut or chopped; 50 medium sized clams, also chopped 
fine. Put broth in kettle, add onions, pork and potatoes. Boil 20 min- 
utes, add water and chopped clams, boil 10 minutes. Add 1 can toma- 
toes, boil 2 to 5 minutes. C. B. Moorb. 

CORN CHOWDEE. 
Pare and cut in small pieces potatoes to fill a pint measure; 1 onion 
cut fine; butter size of an egg. Cover with water and boil until soft. 
When done, add as much milk and corn as desired. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Mrs. H. Wade Hibbard. 



92 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

CEEAM POTATO SOUP. 

Equal parts of cream and milk. Let come to a boil, then thicken 
with mashed potato until about the consistency of cream. Season with 
salt, pepper and a little butter. Before serving, add finely chopped 
parsley. Mrs. C. B. Courtney. 

CEEAM OF VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Melt 3 teaspoons of butter in sauce-pan, add 3 tablespoons each of 
chopped celery, turnip and carrot; 1 tablespoon minced onion; bay-leaf, 
blade of mace, a bit of parsley. Cook 30 minutes, stirring to prevent 
browning; add 3 tablespoons of flour, and when blended pour in grad- 
ually 3 pints of hot milk. Cook in double boiler 30 minutes more, sea- 
isrn with salt and pepper and strain, adding 3 yolks beaten with half a 
cup cream just before serving. Serve with croutons. 

Mrs. C. a. Martin. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Two quarts of boiling water; 1 pint of tomatoes. Let come to a 
boil, add half a teaspoon of soda, 1 pint of sweet milk, plenty of butter, 
pepper and salt to taste. A bit of chicken or any cold meat adds very 
much to the flavor. Jennie Northeup. 

To a quart of tomatoes add a pint of water, sprig of parsley and 
celery. Simmer until the tomatoes are soft: Melt a teaspoonful of but- 
ter ; when hot add chopped onion, tablespoonful of flour. Do not allow 
it to burn; add enough soup to make it smooth. Mix with the rest of 
the soup. Pass the whole through a strainer, salt and heat. 

Mrs. Hattie Carpenter. 

TOMATO SOUP (WITH STOCK). 

.One quart stewed tomatoes; 1 pint of stock; 1 stalk of celery; 1 
sprig of parsley; 1 teaspoon of sugar; half a teaspoon of soda; 3 level 
tablespoons of butter ; 4 level tablespoons of flour ; 1 small onion ; 1 bay- 
leaf, salt and pepper. Stew tomatoes onion, bay-leaf, celery and parsley 
until soft and press through a sieve. Add stock, bring to a boil, add 
butter and flour rubbed together until smooth and stir until smooth. 
Add salt and pepper, sugar and soda and serve. 

Mrs. C. a. Martin. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 93 

CKBAM TOMATO SOUP. 
Boil the contents of 1 can of tomatoes with 3 pints of hot water 
and 1 onion three-quarters of an hour. Add 1 tablespoon of sugar, 1 
tablespoon of salt; threequarters teaspoon of cayenne pepper. Strain, 
after which add 1 tablespoon of butter, a pinch of soda, 1 cup of hot 
milk, a few celery leaves (dried and powdered). If you use fresh celery 
put in before the tomatoes are strained. Add 3 tablespoons of flour and 
boil 10 minutes. Mks. M. A. Geant. 

COEN SOUP. 
Fry a little bacon lightly ; cut boiled potatoes in dice ; 1 can of corn ; 
11/^ pints of milk ; a little thickening. Let it come to boiling point. 

Mhs. H. W. Dyer. 

CEEAM TOMATO SOUP. 
One pint of canned tomatoes, or 4 large raw ones cut fine. Thei' 
add 1 quart of boiling water and let boil until done. Strain and add 1 
teaspoon of soda, when it will foam ; then imanediately put in 1 pint of 
sweet milk, 1 tablespoon of flour wet with milk, salt, pepper and a large 
piece of butter. Mrs. W. H. Brta;t. 

POTATO SOUP. 
Pour or- five boiled and well mashed potatoes; 1 good sized onion 
fried in butter; 1 tablespoon of flour; 11^ pints of milk, cook. Run 
through the colander after cooking. Before serving add the well bcaien 
yolks of 2 eggs. Mrs. H. M. D nil?. 



VEGETABLES 



BAKED APPLES. 
Pour good size cooking apples; half a cup of sugar; 1 teasp>on of 
cornstarch; one- third level teaspoon of salt; half a pint boiling wa,i^r; 
a little grated nutmeg. Pare, quarter and core apples, place them in a 
deep baking dish, sprinkle the sugar over them. Put the cornstarch in 
half a pint cup, wet with a little cold water; then fill the cup with boil- 
ing water, pour over apples, sugar and salt. Grate a little nutmeg over 
the top. Bake until apples are done. Serve in a side-dish while hot 
Good with pork roast or pork chops. Mrs. 0. H. Waltz. 



94 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

FEIED APPLE. 
Slice four sour apples about as for pies. Fry them in butter, just 
browning slightly. They bum very easily. ilRS. H. L. Conlke. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 
Soak 1 quart of white pea-beans in water over night, cover with a 
generous amount of water. In the morning, boil the beans until they are 
easily crushed, but still keep their shape. Drain in colander, put in an 
earthen pot with 4 level teaspoons of salt, 2 tablespoons of molasses, half 
a teaspoon of mustard half a teaspoon of soda. Score about half a lb. 
Vpn salt pork and place on top. Fix the beans after breakfast and bake 
all day without cover in a moderate oven. Keep beans moist. At night 
remove the pork and cover the pot and bake all night with the fire en- 
tirely checked. The pork can be re-heated in the morning and bits 
placed on top of beans when served. Mrs. H. ^YADE Hibbaed. 

BEAN EABBIT. 
An excellent way to use up cold baked beans : Melt 2 tablespoons of 
butter in a spider; add half a teaspoon of salt (scant), 1 cup of beans 
that have been put through a strainer ; mix thoroughly, and when heated 
add slowly half a cup of milk and half a cup of cheese. When cheese is 
melted, serve on banquet wafers that have been heated in the oven. 

Mrs. H. Wade Hibbard. 

COEN CEOQUETTES. 
Half a can of corn ; 1 pint mashed potatoes ; 1 egg ; salt and pepper ; 
butter size of hickory nut. If not moist enough to form in little cakes, 
use milk to moisten. Make in cakes and fry brown ; serve hot. 

Mrs. Ltdia Hemingway. 

COEN FEITTEES. 
Take equal parts of drained canned corn and bread crumbs, ilix 
with beaten egg and a little salt, until just thick enough to smooth out 
when poured into a hot buttered spider in spoonfuls. Fry until a light 
brown. Mrs. H. L. Con lee. 

CANNED COEN TIMBALES. 
Chop, mash and sift enough of the corn to make 1 cup of the pulp. 
Add 2 well beaten egg yolks; level teaspoon of salt, one-eighth teaspoon 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 95 

of white pepper ; a few grains of cayenne / 1 tablespoon of molted butter ; 
1 level teaspoon of sugar; 4 rounded tablespoons of line, soft, white 
bread crumbs. Mix well and add stiffly beaten whites. Should be stifE 
enough to just drop from spoon. If too stiff add cream or milk; if too 
thin, more crumbs. Drop into well buttered timbale mioulds two-thirds 
full, set in pan of hot wat^r, cover with buttered paper, bake 30 minutes 
till puffed all over. Serve on shallow dish. Mrs. C. A. Martin. 

MACAEONI. 

Break one-quarter pound of macaroni into inch pieces. Boil in 3 
pints of salted water for 30 minutes or until soft. Be sure that the 
water is boiling before the macaroni is put in. Drain in a colander, and 
pour cold water through it to cleanse and keep from sticking. Put into 
a shallow baking dish and cover with tomato sauce, made according to 
directions given below. Mix two-thirds of a cup of cracker crumbs with 
one-third of a cup of melted butter and sprinkle over the top. Bake until 
the crumbs are brown. 

Tomato Sauce (for above). — Stew half a can of tomatoes and half 
of a small onion 10 minutes. Eub all the tomato pulp through a strainer. 
Cook 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 heaping tablespoon of flour in a gran- 
ite saucepan ; add the strained tomatoes gradually, and 1 saltspoon of salt 
and a shake of white pepper. Helena B. Hill. 

BAKED MACAEOlSri. 

Put a layer of the boiled article in an earthen dish, then alternate 
layers of tomatoes, either fresh or canned. A layer of onions sliced thin 
as wafers, and any left-over meat, minced fine. Butter, pepper and salt. 
Spread a layer of grated cheese over the whole. Bake until it bubbles 
and steams at the top. N. C. 

SCALLOPED OKIONS. 

Peel and slice as many onions as needed for family, boilin salted 
water until tender ; drain, put a layer of onions in a baking dish, then a 
layer of crackers rolled fine ; continue until the onions are all used, leav- 
ing a layer of cracker crumbs on top. Salt and pepper eaoh layer, dot 
the top with butter, fill with milk, and bake. 

Ltdia Hemingway. 



96 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

POTATO BALLS. 

Two cups of mashed potatoes; 3 tablespoons of butter;. 2 eggs; salt 
and pepper to taste ; make in balls. Flour and fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. Laura Pubman. 

POTATO CEOQUETTES. 

One pound oold potatoes; 1 ounce butter; 1 egg; salt, pepper, milk, 
bread crumbs and parsley. 

Method : Pass the potatoes through a sieve, melt butter in a sauce- 
pan, add potatoes, milk, 3)epper and salt. Make into shape. Roll in egg 
and bread crumbs. Pry in fat. Mrs. A. B. Cotton. 

SWEET POTATOES AND POEK. 
Boil, peel and mash a sufficient quantity of sweet potatoes and 
moisten with butter and egg. With them cover the bottom of a deep 
dish, then cover with slices of fresh pork, seasoned to taste. Add another 
layer of potato and another of pork until dish is full, having the potato 
the last layer. Bake brown. Jessie M. Johnson. 

I 
EICB. 
Nice for tea or breakfast. 
Mix plain boiled rice, a little- salt, and beaten egg. Have soft 
enough to smooth easily when dropped into hot buttered spider; fry 
rather slowly a light brown. Mrs. H. L. Conlee. 

CEEAMED TOMATOES. 
Scald the tomatoes and put through a strainer, add salt, pepper and 
1 teaspoon of sugar. Let cook a few minutes, then add half a cup of 
milk, and a little cornstarch dissolved in water. Just before serving add 
a large lump of butter. Mrs. Hattte Cabpentee. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 
Skin the tomatoes, slice in small pieces. Spread in bottom of a pud- 
ding dish a thick layer of them, cover with a thin layer of bread crumbs, 
and sprinkle on a little salt and pepper, putting on also a few small 
pieces of butter. Add layers of tomatoes and bread crumbs alternately 
until the dish is filled, then sprinkle over the top a layer of finely rolled 
cracker. Bake 1 hour. Mrs. L. M. H. 



THE USEEUL COOK BOOK 97 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

An excellent dish. 
Place alternate layers of tomatoes, sliced onions, and bread crumbs 
in a baking dish ; season with salt, pepper and butter, and bake, 
y Mrs. John Sabin. 



HINTS 



CUKE FOR SOEE THEOAT. 
Cayenne pepper, 2 oz. ; common salt, 1 oz. ; vinegar, half a pint. 
Wann over a slow fire and gargle the throat and mouth every hour. 
G-arlic and onion poultices applied to the outside. Castor oil, half a tea- 
spoon to keep the bowels open. Mrs. Hattie Carpenter. 

EXCELLENT COUGH SYEUP. 
Two oz. pure glycerine, 6c. worth pure gin, 1 cup of granulated 
sugar, 1 cup of water. Make a syrup, then add the glycerine and gin. 

Mrs. 0. C. Emmons. 

COUGH 'MIXTUEE. 
Pour grains of codeine sulphate, 2 oz. ammonium carbonate, syrup 
of acacia in sufficient quantity to make 6 ounces. Mix. Take 1 teaspoon- 
' ful every 3 hours. If cough is very bad, take every hour for 3 doses. 

HULDAH T. ACKLET, E. N. 

LOTIOK FOE THE HANDS; 
One oz. glycerine, 1 oz. rose water, 1 oz. lemon juice. Shake well, 
and apply when the hands are moist. 

One gill of alcohol, 1 gill of cologne, 1 gill of glycerine, one-quarter 
oz. gum tragacanth. Soak gum over night in 1 quart soft, warm water ; 
morning, stir until dissolved, add other ingredients and bottle. 

Mrs. Ltdia Hemingway. 

POULTICE POE PAIN. 
Heat 2 tablespoons of flour in the oven, wet it with 1 tablespoon of 
water and enough spirits of camphor to make a paste. Spread on paper, 
and apply without a cloth between. It relieves neuralgia very quickly. 

Jennie Northrup. 

Doughnuts and cookies, as well as crackers, oan be freshened by 
heating them thoroughly in the oven, afterwards cooling in a dry place. 



98 THE USEFUL GQOK BOOK 

Scald rhubarb for a few minutes before cooking and much less sugar 
will be needed. 

Never allow fresh meat to remain in paper ; it absorbs the juices. 

Eub the nickel stove trimmings and the plated handles and hinges 
of doors with kerosene and whiting, and polish with a dry cloth. 

Never cook a chicken until 24 hours, anyway, after killing, as it re- 
tains animal heat that long and is not healthful. 

Cut your new bread with a hot knife. 

Oyster shells put in a tea-kettle will take to themselves the sediment 
and leave the kettle clear. Mes. H. P. O'Neil. 

Do not cover spinach or green peas while cooking, and they will re- 
tain their fresh color. 

Do not rub the butter too finely into the flour or it will be mealy. 
To have flaky short-cake or crust, the shortening should show in little 
flakes or streaks in the dough. Miss AVillson. 

When making cake, put in all the ingredients but the eggs, then 
break them in one at a time and stir them in. This makes the cake much 
better. Mes. G. M. Pashlet. 

PICKLE FOR MEAT. 
One-quarter pound saltpeter, 8 pounds salt, 2 pounds brown sugar, 
to 100 pounds meat; water to cover meat. Boil water, saltpeter, ^ugar 
and salt, and when about half cool add the meat. A sure recipe. 

HOME EECIPE FOR DRYING BEEF. 
One pint of salt, 1 teaspoon of saltpeter, 4 oz. brown sugar, for evorv 
20 pounds of beef. Divide the ingredients into three parts and rub tbent 
wtl] in the beef lor three successive days. The meat is ready to hang 
in one week. Turn the meat every day until ready to dry. 

Mes. Ltdia Hemingway. 

I want to recommend cooked rice as an agreeable and healthful 
substitute for potatoes occasionally. 



TEE USEFUL COOK BOOK 99 

Left-over bits of meat chopped and combined with left-over bits of 
gravy,, highly seasoned, served on hot cooked rice makes an acceptable 
luncheon dish. Mes. L. C. P. 

IVOEY SOAP PASTE. 

To one pint of boiling water add 1% ounces of Ivory Soap cut fine. 
Boil 10 minutes after soap has dissolved, set away to cool. 

To clean gloves, draw gloves on hand, use a soft flannel, and apply 
the paste, remove with another cloth, let the glove dry on the hand. 

Can be used for wihite kid, satin slippers, canvas shoes, etc. Will 
keep for months if placed in glass jar with screw top. 

CLEANSIISTG FLUID. 
One pint of deodorized benzine, 1 drachm oil of wintergreen, 1 
drachm alcohol, half a drachm sulphuric ether, half a drachm chloro- 
form. Keep well corked. Jennie E. Noetheup. 

TO CLEAN PAINT, OE EBMOVE GEBASE FEOM WOVEN 

EABEICS. 
Pour oz. white castile soap, 4 oz. ammoa^ia, 1 oz. ether, 1 oz. spirits 
of wine. Dissolve the soap thoroughly in half a gallon soft water. When 
tepid in temperature add other ingredients and bottle for use. Keep 
well corked; apply with sponge and rinse thoroughly. 

Mes. Ltdia Hemingway. 

CLEANING FLUID. 
One pint deodorized benzine, 1 oz. alcohol, 1-8 oz. amm^onia, 1-8 oz. 
biy rum, 1-8 oz. chloroform. 1-8 oz. ether, 1 drachm borax. 

Mes. M. a. Geant. 

One gallon gasoline, 1 oz. alcohol, % oz. bay rum, 1-8 oz. spirits of 
ammonia, % oz. chloroform, % oz. ether, 1-8 drachm powdered borax. 

Mes. McKay. 

A very simple but effective vp-ay of clearing the atmosphere of a room 
is this: Place a lump of camphor in a saucer and apply a very hot poker 
to it. This will cause strong fumes to rise, which will cleanse the air 
f'p.rj speedily, and at the same time act as a powerful disinfectant. 

Mes. John Sabin. 

CLEANSING CELLARS. 

Pi^lye ojje-f&urth drachm gf pitrate of lead 'in 1 quart of hot 



100 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

water; empty that and a tablespoon of salt in a pail of cold water and 
sprinkle it about the cellar. Jennie Noetheup. 

TO PEESBRVE EGG'S. 

Eggs may be preserved in the spring when they are cheap and kept 
Tor use in the winter, when they are scarce and high in price. Place eggs 
in water-tight vessel. Dissolve sodiimi silicate or water glass in the 
proportion of 1 part water glass to 9 parts of water. Pour on eggs, 
place oh the top an old plate so that they are sure to remain under liquid. 
Put on the crock cover and tie a paper over the top. When wanted for 
use, take out of the liquid and wash in cold water. These eggs will be 
found superior to "cold storage" eggs, and much less expensive if the 
supply is bought in the spring when they are plentiful. 

Mbs. H. Wade Hibbaed. 

Eub a little castor oil on warts three or four times a day. Said to 
be a sure cure. 

For tired feet, bathe in water in which sea salt has been dissolved. 
Do not use very warm water, as that is weakening. 

If you spill grease on the floor, pour on quickly some cold water, 
then scrub up ; or put on soda, and then boiling water. 

TO REMOVE IRON RUST. 
Eub the spot thoroughly with lemon and salt, hold in the steam 
from the tea-kettle. Repeat until all trace of the rust is removed. This 
is a much quiclcer way than putting the article in the sun. 

When frying fish, like chicken, halibut or any steaked fish, dip it in 
half flour and cornmeal and fry in salt pork fat. 

Mes. H. W. Hibbaed. 

To Clean a Carafe — Fill the carafe half full of raw, white potato, cut 
in small dice. Fill with cold water and let stand over night, or as long 
as convenient. Maeian E. Clapp. 

POLISH FOR ZINC OR TIN. 
To 3 pints of water add 1 oz. of nitric acid, 2 oz. emery and 8 oz. 
pumice stone. ShaJce well together. Jennie Northbup. 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 101 

LIQUID BLUING. 

One oz. Chinese blue, half oz. oxalic auid, 1 quart soft water. 

Mrs. M. a. Grant. 

TO BLEACH COTTON CLOTH. 
One pound chloride of lime, dissolved and strained, put in 3 or 3 
pails of water; thoroughly wet the cloth and leave it over night, then 
rinse irrll. This will also take out mildew. Jennie Northhup. 

If scissors, large or small, do not work smoothly, rub your fingers 
across the blades. The natural oil of your hands will work marvels. 

Salt in a kerosene lamp will make it burn better. 

Mrs. M. L. Van De Bogart. 

JAVELLB WATBE FOE MILDEW AND OTHEE STAINS. 
One lb. chloride of lime, 2 lbs. of sal-soda, 2 gals, soft water. Use 
1 gallon of bailing water on the ingredients to dissolve them, adding the 
gallon of cold water when dissolved. Jennie Northrup. 

SANDWICH FILLINGS. 

Chop fine half a cupful of English walnut meats and 2 stalks of 
celery; mix with cream cheese and a bit of mayonaise. 

Soften half a pound of butter a little, add the juice of 1 lemon and 
4 tablespoons of finely chopped parsley. IMix and spread thin slices of 
bread. 

AEEOW EOOT GEUEL (FOE INVALIDS). 

A piece of sheet gelatine about 1 inch square. Soak in a little cold 
water about half an hour. Boil 1 cup of milk and stir in the gelatine, 
and 1 teaspoon of arrow root wet in cold water. It can be used hot or 
cold. For invalids it is well to add the white of an egg, beaten Just a 
little. If the egg is used, the gruel must be cool enough not to cook the 
egg. Jennie E. Northrup. 

BEEF JUICE. 
, Take 1 pound of rare steak cut thick. Slightly broil and press out 

the juice. Season with salt. Give warm or cold. 

Mrs. Hattie Carpenter. 



102 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

SUITABLE COMBINATIONS. 

Cold Veal — Stuffing, rice, tomato sauce. 

Lamb — Diced raw potato, turnip, tomato sauce. 

Mutton — Macaroni, oysters, white or tomato sauce. 

Beef — Onions, potatoes, celery, brown sauce. 

Chicken — Eice, oysters or celery, white sauce. 

Turkey — Stuffing and giblet gravy. 

Duck — Minced olives, quartered apples. 

ilacaroni — And brown gravy, or currant jelly. 

Fish — Stuffing and egg or HoUandaise sauce. 

Fish — Diced potatoes, parsley, tomato sauce. 

Beef sausages, potatoes and brown gravy. 

Boiled Ham^-Mustard, sliced hard eggs, rice and white sauce. 

Mrs. S. J. 
TABLE DECOEATION. 

A very pretty and inexpensive table decoration can be made by 
taking empty spools and covering with green crepe paper, as one covers 
a flower pot. Stick in the hole of the spool a Christmas candle. Place 
one at each place, or one on each side of a plate. When lighted gives a 
very pretty effect. Mrs. H. J. Webber. 

Put cayenne pepper in cracks to drive away ants. 
Make a strong, hot solution, dip rags in it, and stuff into mouse 
holes, and the mice will not trouble. 

SANDWICH PILLINaS. 
Pour boiling water' over seeded raisins, let stand 10 minutes, drain, 
chop fine, add a few finely chopped English walnut meats and spread thin 
bread. Yery nice without nuts. 

A USEFUL ARTICLE. 
I have found that a useful and economical article for household use 
is an "Ideal Steam Cooker," as in it one can cook at the same time from 
four to six articles over one burner of gas, oil or gasoline, or over a 
Icitchen stove. This cooker saves iimc as well as fuel. It is good for 
cooking fresh food or for steam-cooking "left-overs." Burnt food is hard 
to take, and as there is attached to the cooker a steam whistle which blows 
when more water is needed, one need never burn food, as the whistle will 
warn you in time, and can be heai-d in any part of the house. So nothing 
need burn or dry up and you can be attending to other things while the 



THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 103 

meal is cooking. No odors are mixed or carried out into the room from 
this coolcer. Mes. A. J. Coon. 

I consider a bread mixer the greatest help of any invention for light- 
ening housework. Mrs. J. R. Updike. 

SOME THINGS I FIND HELPFUL. 

I keep a bottle of kerosene oil on the shelf over the sink ; also a box of 
rags. I use the oil for cleaning nickle on the stove, for brass, copper, 
oilcloth on the shelves and floor ; also use a little in the water w'hen clean- 
ing paint, bath-tubs, bowls and sinks. In fact, where hard water is used 
it is almost indispensable. 

When making escalloped salmon, oysters or potatoes, scald the milk. 
They will cook more quickly and be lighter. 

Use newspapers for many things; rub the top of the stove as soon 
as you get through frying meat ; it removes all grease. Wipe out frying 
pans with it before putting them in the dish water. Use them on work 
table when cleaning chicken and many other things. 

Mes. 0. A. Peabody. 

LEFT-OVBE SOAP. 

An economical housewife wastes nothing, of course, and the wonder- 
ful things she does with scraps of lefi>over soap, the impossible residue 
of a w'hole cake, are worth studying. With expensive toilet soap she has 
several plans. One is to put the pieces carefully away until there are 
half a dozen alike, when they are welded together with warm water and 
firm pressure, and made into a cake almost as good as new. Another 
plan is to add these scraps to all the other small pieces of toilet, bath and 
pure white soap, whioh are all preserved in a crock in the bathroom. 
When the jar is about two-thirds full, the pieces are cut small, and it is 
filled up with boiling water, stirred, and to it is added slowly a handful 
of oatmeal and a tablespoonful of glycerine or borax. This makes a 
very good soap jelly and makes a splendid bath lather or hand-soap, soft- 
ening and whitening the skin in the severest weather, on account of the 
oatmeal and glycerine in it. Or she pounds the bits into powder and 
sews them into c'heescloth bags filled with oatmeal or bran, with a dash 
of orris root, if the powder is not already scented enough. These are very 
pleasant to use in the bath instead of washcloths. 

Pine soap scraps are sometimes put into an agate pan, covered with 
water, and cooked slowly in a moderate oven for an hour or two to jelly. 
In a covered jar this is always in demand for washing delicate laces, em- 



104 THE USEFUL COOK BOOK 

broideries, and handkerchiefs which should never be rubbed with soap. 
Remnants of laundry soap can be boiled into a Jelly or soft soap for di^h- 
waishing, or shaved into the wash boiler on wash day. When dissolved, 
soap powders and bar soap seem to do more work than when used in 
their ordinary state. 

If all bar soap is aired and sunned for a week or two before using 
it will last about twice as long and not melt away in the water without 
any visible effect. — American Cultivator. 

TO KEEP AN IRON SINK CLEAN. 
The first step toward keeping an iron sink properly, says the Pio- 
torial Review, is to remove the accumulations of grease and dirt, and also 
the rust underneath ; this is easily done by applying a liberal wash of coal 
oil or kerosene ;, put this on vrith a flannel cloth or the top of a worn 
flannel stocking, wearing an old glove; rub it well in and then apply 
more coal oil and leave it over night. In the morning wipe off the oil, 
and, with a basin of hot water, to which has been added borax and strong 
soap powder or soft soap, wash the sink thoroughly, and then wipe it dry, 
wringing out the moist cloth repeatedly until all the water has disap- 
peared, and then finishing the drying with a perfectly dry flannel cloth. 
If the rust has not entirely disappeared, repeat this process the second 
night, although usually one application of oil will suffice to remove the 
rust and dirt, and after the sink has been dried, leave the iron black and 
shining. 

CARE OF LINOLEUM. 
"In caring for linoleum," says an authority on household economics, 
"do not use soapsuds as for scrubbing a floor. It stands to reason that 
soap is going to injure the varnish and the finish. On a farm where 
there is plenty of milk, a cloth wrung out of skim milk is the best means 
of taking up the dust and brightening the linoleum. Where milk is 
scarce, or needed for food, use lukewai-m water, to which has been added 
half a cupful of kerosene oil or some good furniture polish. Wring the 
cloth rather dry from this, and go over the linoleum after sweeping, and 
it will be quite new and bright, and the finish uninjured. . . . Most 
housewives scrub oilcloth and linoleum as though it were a bare floor ; it 
is dusty rather than dirty, since ever}'thdng remains on top, and for this 
reason a clean cloth slightly damp is ill that is necessary." 



\ 



