ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 

San Francisco, 1912 



I. MAGNIN & CO. 

GRANT AVE. AT GEARY ST. SAN FRANCISCO 



SOMETHING NEW 

WE ARE OFFERING LADIES PURE 
SILK HOSE IN BLACK AND EVERY 
POSSIBLE SHADE FOR $1.50. WE 
GIVE A WRITTEN GUARANTEE WITH 
THIS STOCKING. YOUR INSPECTION 
IS SOLICITED, AT OUR HOSIERY DE- 
PARTMENT ON THE FIRST FLOOR. 

ASK TO SEE 

MAGNIN'S GUARANTEED SILK HOSE 



The 

American 

Florist 

CHARLES STAPPENBECK 




Phone Franklin 314 

1217 POLK STREET 

San Francisco 



Gilt Edge Market 

3274-76 Sacramento St. 
A. [. RHODES T. A. ARMITAGC 

Choice Stall fed Meats 

Phone We«t 410 



D. SILVESTRI 


CHOICE 


fruits and Vegetables 


Phone WEST 1033 



V. M. POMETTA 

freshButter.MilkoRdEggs 

Butter Churned Daily 
Phone WEST 6377 



Phone Weft 1389 



Merced Dairy 

SOLOMON BROS. 

Pure Milk and 
Cream 



We Supply Certified Milk 



1507BroderickSl. 

, San Francuco* Cal. 



BREAKFAST 

GEM 



Phone WEST 6229 



Blum's Sweets 



2816 California Street 



^t Devisadero 



Waldorf Hair 
Store 



Largest and Most Coniiplet^ 
on the Pacific Coast 



241-243 Geary St. ""- 



Square 



L. J. Lszsr Wm. T. Uzar 

Phone WEST 2934 

LAZAR BROS. 

Nigh Grade Grocers 

FOREIGN and DOMESTIC 

WINES 

1701-1703 Devisadero Street 

San Francisco 



NaneiT at 
Oceaa View 



Pkone 
WEST 586 



Serveau Bros. 

FLORISTS 

2110-2114 Fillmore Street 

Bouquets and all kinds of Floral 
Deaisna Made to Order. 

Plants in Great Variety For Sale 



For the Hair 



KAPOSINE 

Removes Dandruff - 

LENGFELD'S PHARMACY 



l804FiJlmoreSt.,^ 



Sstttr. 



Cor. Fillmore and Jackson Sts. 



THE JUVENILE 

Ezclusive Importers, Designers of Young Mens' 
Boys' and Childrens' Clothes, Headwear, Haberdathery 



EVERYTHING A BOY CAN WEAR 
FROM HIS FEET UP 



Grant Are. and Union S^are, bet. Geary and Post Sts. 



CIIAS. BROWN & SONS 



871 Market St. 

San Francisco - - Cal. 

NOVELTIES IN 

Cooking Utensils, Ranges, Crockery and Glassware 



"We Deliver the Goods" 


Phone Weit 6878 


SIGNAL TRANSFER AND 


TRAEGER'S MARKET 


STORAGE CO. 


Dealer in 


Furniture Moving and Packing 


...Choice Meats... 


Separate Rooms for Storage 


Fish oii Fridays 


Office: 1131 Polk Street 


' 




1451 DEVISADERO STREET 


Phone Franklin 318 


San Francuco 



Telephone WEST 7647 Ani^c Decoration! a Specialty 

Prompt Attention Given to Orders for Roral Dengns and Country Orders 

CALIFORNIA FLORIST 

JULIUS EPPSTEIN 
145lHEddy Street and Hgtel St. Ftancis 

The Be^ for 30 Years and the Be^ 
To-day 

From the Richest Gardens in Ceylon and India 



TETLEY'S TEA 



For Sale hy all Firat-Class Grocers 

J. H. NEWBAUER & CO. 

WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS 



California Notion and Toy Company 



IMPORTERS and JOBBERS 



Stationery, Pipes, Cutlery, Brushes 
Toys, Fancy Goods, Playing Cards 

551 to 555 MARKET ST. San Francisco, Cal. 



Goldberg - Bo^ven ^ Co. 

QUALITY GROCERS 

ESTABLISHED 1850 >- FOUR STORES 

Gooa Groceries and Good Service 
San Francisco and Oakland 



DAVIS SCHONWASSER CO. 



LADIES'. CHILDREN'S 

AND INFANTS- 
WEARING APPAREL 



N. E. Cor. Sutter and Grant Ave. San Francisco, Cal. 

PHONE DOUGLAS 3840 



PHONE PARK 5161 

RD. LAINER 

PHARMACIST 
and CHEMIST 

GRADUATE UNIVERSITY VIENNA 
Deutsche ApoUieke 

1260 McAlliaer Street 
San Francisco 



Telephone Weit 2526 

FRENCH CONFECTIONERY 

Ice Cream and Ices 

a Specialty 
1242-44 DEVISADERO ST. 

Bet. Eddy and Ellis Su. 

San Francisco 



DEALER IN 

Beef, Mutton, 

Lamb, Veal, 

Etc. 

2305 SUTTER STREET 

TELEPHONE WEST 4024 

San Francisco 



Phone Douglas 2182 

Napa Winery 

Inc. 
Wholesale and Retail dealers in 

CALIFORNIA WINES 
, AND BRANDIES 

Straight and Bonded Whiakiea, 

Cordials, Liijaears, Etc. 

Calwa Grape Juice 

252 - 254 MARKET STREET 
Saa Fxancuco, Cal. 



CALIFORNIA MARKET 

Pine to California, Bet. Nontyomery and Kearny 
THE LEADING MARKET OF THE WORLD 



A. DECOURTIEUX CO., Inc. 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

SPECIAL SELECTED MEATS 

stalls 49. 60. 61. 62, 63 and 54 
Phones Douglas 4025 and 4026— S. F. Branch at San Rafael. Tel. 152 

Geo. Katz Gns Katz 

KATZ BROS. 

iKOSsm Urnii SONS 
Phone Douglas 4344 ±J 11 1 C 11 C I" S 

BAYLE, LACOSTE & CO. 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Tripe, Calves' Meads and Feet 

Brains. Tongues. Sweet Bread, Livers and Ox Tails 
Phone. Office. Douglas 3738 San Francisco, Cal. 

C. L, Goetting C. W. Goetting G. B. Waterman 

OMEY & GOETTING 

Domestic and Tropical Fruits and Produce 

stalls 28, 29, 30, 67, 68, 69 Phone Douglas 3761 

E. BONEIGLI 

Dealer in 

Fisn, Oysters, Terrapin, Frogs, Crabs 

^^ Lobsters and Shrimps 

Special attefition to Family Trade Stalls 31. 32. 33 

' Phone Douglas 3718 

A. W. riNK ™^^^^ 

Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 

BUTTER, EGGS, CHEESE, PROVISIONS 
O'BRIEN. SPOTORNO & MITCHELL 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Poultry, Game, Dairy Produce and Oils 

Agency Cantel's French Cheese Branch 

Phone DOUGLAS 3622 Golden Gate Ave. Market 

Connecting all Departments 1212 Golden Gate Ave. 



O'CONNOR, MOFFATT& CO. 



BACK AT OUR OLD LOCATION 

POST ST. beL GRANT AVE. and KEARNY 

New Kearnjr Street Elntiance 



Large and Complete Stock of High Grade Imported 
and Domestic 

DRY GOODS 



Comprising the very Latest Styles and Fabrics in 



Silb 


Gloves 


Domestics 


Dress Goods 


Umbrellas 


Curtains 


Laces 


Perfumes 


Draperies 


Ribbons 


Cloaks and Suits 


Blankets 


Hosiery 


Muslin Underwear 


Waists 


Notions 


Leather Goods 


/ Furs 



Attradtive New Departments 

Millinery - Men's Furnishings 
Infants' Wear - - Misses' Suits 




CITY 




PARIS 



HOME AGAIN 



on Union Square 
Geary at Stockton 



Established 1864 



Hliebes&Co. 

MANUFACTURING 
FURRIERS 



and 



Specialists in Women's, 

Misses' and Children's 

Ready/- to-Wear 

Garments 

No. 167-177 Post Street 

Telephone Kearny 5300 San Francisco 



L RUFFIEUX 

French Confectionery 

specialties— Fancy Ice Cre^mns 
and Pudding's 

211 Powell Street 

Phone Dousrlas 3266 San Francisco 

HAMMERSMITH & CO. 

Gola and 
Silversmitlis 

Sutter Street at Grant Avenue / 
San Francisco 



COUNCIL 
COOK BOOK 



PUBLISHED BY THE 



San Francisco Section 



OF THE 



Council of Je-wish Women 





I, 
Mrs. J. C. LEVY. President 




COMPILED BY 




Mrs. DAVID HIRSCHLER 




ASSISTED BY 


Mrs. 


LOUIS VAN VLIET 


Mrs. SILAS GREEN 


Mr«. 


FERDINAND REEB 


Mrs. CHAS. ROSENBAUM 


Mrs. 


DAVID HIRSCHBERG 


Mrs. JOSEPH WEISSBEIN 


Mrs. 


EMANUEL ELZAS 


Miss CLARA ABRAHAMS 



SAN FRANCISCO. CAL. 
1908-1909 



'TX 



1909 

International Piintlns Company 

330 Jackson St.. S. F.: 



Acknowledgement 




r would be a pleasure to thank by name 
each one who has assisted in this book, 
but that is impossible. We appreciate the 
kindness of those who sent in recipes and the untiring 
efforts of those who contributed to the financial success 
of the book. We are indebted to our advertisers and 
we have an added kindly feeling for them because 
from personal experience we know their true worthi- 
ness and the merits of the articles they advertise. 



"To be a good coo^ means the economy of 
your great-grandmothers and the science of 
modem chemists. It means much tasting and 
no wasting. It means Sngllsh thoroughness, 
French art and Arabian hospitality. It means, 
in fine, that \)0U are to see that eoery one 
has something nice to eat." — Rutkin. 



ERRATA 



Page 26.— Mock Turtle Soup.— When boiling, 
thicken with one tablespoon flour and two tablespoons 
butter, etc. 

Page 36.— Sauce Tartare. — Mix half a cup, etc., 
not make. 

Page 45. — Green Peppers and Oysters, — When 
mixed put three fried oysters on each pepper. 

Page 46. — Tomato Custards. — Eliminate four eggs 
mentioned in beginning of recipe. 

Page 50. — Home Made Chicken Tamale. — Add one 

cup olives. 

Page 96. — Currant Bread. — Two cups milk instead 
of flour. 

Page 98. — Nut Bread. — Add four teaspoons yeast 
powder. 

Page 101. — Com Bread. — Add one teaspoon yeast 
powder and one quarter teaspoon, only, baking soda. 

Page 142.— Pilled Coffee Cake.— Two tablespoon- 
fuls instead of two pounds. 

Page 176. — Peppermint Candy. — Stir in a pinch o£ 
cream of tartar until it becomes white, then drop on 
paper. ~^ 

Page 189. — Matzo Cake. — Scant teacup sugar, not 
teaspoon. 



CONTENTS 



Pase 

Sandwiches and Appetizers 15 

Soups 23 

Fish and Fish Sauces 31 

Entrees •IS 

Meats and Meat Sauces 59 

Chicken and Game 69 

Vegetables 75 

Salads and Salad Dressings S5 

Bread and Rollg i 93 

Puddings and Pudding Sauces 103 

Frozen Desserts 115 

Pies and Pastries 123 

Cakes 131 

Cookies 147 

Pickles and Relishes 155 

Beverages 161 

Marmalades and Jams 167 

Candies 173 

Household Hints .' 177 

Passover Dishes 187 



SANDWICHES 

AND APPETIZERS 

"A crust of bread and liberty." 
Horace. 

Council Canapes 

On slices of toasted bread, put pieces of tongue or 
cornbeef. Spread with mushrooms and tomatoes that 
have been cooked together, and sprinkle with Parme- 
san cheese. Put in a hot oven for five or ten minutes 
and serve on a hot platter, covered with a folded 
napkin. 

Tongue Sandwiches 

Chop some tongue very fine. Mix one teaspoon of 
dry mustard, one saltspoon of salt and cold water 
enough to make a stiff paste ; add to it one-fourth of a 
cup of butter creamed. Cut bread thin, spread with 
the mustard and butter paste, then with the tongue. 
Put two slices together, and cut. into rectangular 
pieces. Some chicory lettuce may be put between the 
two spread slices of bread. 

Canadian Cream Sandwich 

Cream two parts of Canadian cream cheese and 
one part of butter. Moisten with a little cream and 
to this paste add paprika. Have ready sliced brown 
and white bread. Spread with the mixture and ar- 

Gloves Gleaned, all len^hs, 5c a Pair 
Monthly contracts for the care of gentlemen's' 
clothing. We have just installed the most modem 
plant in the west for X>ry Clcaninsr Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phone West 926: Our wagons will call. I95S CMiatSL 




16 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



range, alternately, four layers. Press the four layers 
together and then slice in narrow strips. Fruit color- 
ing may be mixed with the cheese, so as to have the' 
filling whatever color desired. 

Boston Sandwich 

One slice each of white and brown bread, cut thin ■ 
and buttered, and spread with chestnuts that have 
been boiled tender, peeled and rubbed through a sieve, 
then mashed with hard boiled eggs to a paste and 
moistened with mayonnaise. 

Fish Sandwiches 

. Spread one piece of bread with any kind of cold 
fish that has been shredded and mixed with tartar 
sauce. Then put a lettuce leaf on that and then a 
slice of hard-boiled egg that has been dipped in tartar 
sauce. Cover with a slice of buttered bread. 

Salmon and Bro,wn Bread Sandwiches. 

Flake one cup salmon and rub it to a paste. Add 
mustard, salt, and cayenne. Spread on the bread, 
cover with a layer of thin slices of cucumber, then 
another piece of bread, press lightly and arrange with 
sprigs of parsley on the platter. 

Cheese Crackers. 

Take dainty chip crackers. Butter. Then sprinkle 
grated cheese (Swiss and eastern mixed) on buttered 
cracker, then paprika. Put in hot oven for a few 
minutes. 

Our Favorite ToiletCream- ^""'TJ^Epir"' 

Phone West 3855 s^ FRANCISCO 



SANDWICHES 17 



Cherry Sandwiches. 

Chop candied cherries fine, moisten slightly with 
orange juice or maraschino. Spread between rounds 
of thin buttered bread. 

Celery ReUsh 

Boil about six pieces of celery root. When soft, 
peel and mash. Season with salt, pepper, a little onion 
powder, a teaspoonful of home made mustard and 
plenty of mayonnaise. Shape into pyramids, put 
mayonnaise on the top of the pyramid, and on top of 
that either a little well seasoned caviar or some sar- 
dellen butter shaped in a pastry bag. Serve on a slice 
of beets and a lettuce leaf. 

Sorrento Sandwiches. 

Boil chicken livers till very tender, rub through a 
strainer and mix with an equal amount of finely 
chopped olives. Moisten with mayonnaise dressing 
and put between rounds of thin bread, that have been 
spread with mayonnaise. 

Bohemian Cheese Paste. 

Take equal parts of butter and Roquefort cheese 
and melt till of the consistency of cream. Add cayenne, 
Worcestershire, and a teaspoon brandy. Stir till 
foamy, spread on crisp crackers. 

Crabapple Jelly Sandwiches. 

Spread wheat bread with a thin coating of thick 
cream, a little salt, and thin slices of crabapple jelly. 

The Evening Post s*^" Frandsco'. 

Best Newspaper. 

30 Cents per Month Delivered Every Eveninc 



18 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches. 

Take equal parts of grated cheese and walnuts, 
pounded to a meal or ground; moisten with thick 
sweet cream and season to taste with salt. Spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

Fruit Icing Wafers. 

One small cup of sugar, one quarter cup of water, 
boiled until syrup threads when dropped from a spoon, 
then beat with the beaten white of one tgg until 
creamy. Add chopped nuts, raisins and lemon peel, 
then spread on top of water crackers, and brown in a 
moderate oven. 

Egg Appetizer. 

Boil eggs hard. Cut slice off the end, so that the 
egg will stand firm. Dip tgg in French dressing, then 
with a pastry bag arrange sardellen butter on the top 
of egg. Have ready small squares of toasted bread, 
spread with a thin layer of sardellen Ijutter, on which 
to stand the eggs. Caviar, mixed with some finely 
chopped onion, pepper and lemon juice, may be used 
instead of the sardellen butter, but mayonnaise must 
be used over the caviar. 

Celery Sandwiches. 

Two cups of chopped celery, two tablespoons 
chopped walnuts, two tablespoons chopped olives, 
quarter of a cup of mayonnaise dressing. Spread 
between slices of thin buttered bread. 

For Gasoline, Benzine, Turpentine, Wood Alcohol 
and Oils. FRED T. KNOLES, 2000 Fillmore St. 
Telephone West 18SS. 



SANDWICHES . 19 



Artichoke Relish. 

On small squares of toast, spread with Pate de 
foie gras, place artichoke hearts filled with chopped 
olives and mayonnaise. 

Cheese Relish. 

One cup grated mixed cheese, one-half cup grated 
stale bread crumbs, one teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce, one-half teaspoon each prepared mustard, salt, 
paprika; add the yolks of two eggs and one table- 
spoon melted butter. Spread on slices of bread or 
crackers and bake in the oven five minutes. 

Oyster Canap6s. 

Chop some large oysters finely; add some bread 
crumbs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and 
one-quarter cup of cream. Season with salt and 
pepper. Simmer over the fire a few minutes. Butter 
slices of bread, place on a hot dish, and pour mixture 
over. 

Queen Cup Appetizers. 

Cut off a slice of a lemon, scoop out the lemon 
and fill with clam cocktail, which has been prepared 
like oyster cocktail. Cut grape fruit into halves, add 
a little sugar and in the center stand the filled lemons. 
Serve with horseradish and small dinner biscuit. 

Shrimp and Crab Cocktail. 

Twelve tablespoons of catsup, three tablespoons 
tarragon vinegar, three tablespoons Rhine wine, cay- 

LOUIS MOTRONl r,T%!oL' 

Phone WEST 1284 ^OOO rilimOreOl. CBinowmFre.hD.ily 



20 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

enne pepper and salt to taste ; juice of one lemon, and 
one pint, mixed, of shredded crab meat, and shrimps., 
added to the sauce. Serve cold, with one-quarter ot. 
a teaspoon of grated horseradish on the top of each 
portion. 

Sardines in Jelly. 

First make a lemon j^lly, and before it has set 
put a mould into a pan of ice, pour in a layer of the 
jelly, and lay on this the sardines artistically arranged, 
each in a small bed of chopped parsley; when hard, 
pour on another layer of jelly and arrange sardines as 
before. Drain all the oil from the sardines before 
placing them in the jelly. 

Caviare Tartines. 

Butter slices of bread or toast, cut round, spread' 
a thin layer of caviar, then put a small, thin slice 
of tomato in the center and around the outer edge 
of tomato put mayonnaise. Chopped olives or pimi-' 
ento on top is nice. 

Grape Fruit. 

Remove from skin the cells and juice, add a 
little sugar and chopped pineapple, and a few maras- 
chino cherries. Serve very cold, in glasses, sur- 
rounded with chopped ice or in fruit shells. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

One tablespoon of butter, two cups finely cut 
American cheese, one-half cup of milk or stale beer, 
one-half teaspoon prepared English mustard, two 



OLlMllA DufaK uM*4«"ed forTuJity, U 

for sale at all ffood srocers 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



SANDWICHES 21 



eggs, salt to taste. Melt butter, add cheese; when it 
begins to melt, add liquid. Keep stirring until 
smooth. Put in mustard, add the beaten eggs. Cook 
one minute longer and salt to taste. Serve on toast. 

Tomato and Cheese Rarebit. 

Melt three tablespoons butter, add two table- 
spoons flour, three-fourths pup milk. When thick- 
ened, add three-fourths cup of stewed, strained 
tomatoes mixed with one-eighth teaspoon soda. Add 
two cups finely cut cheese, two beaten eggs, one- 
half teaspoon each salt and mustard, pinch of cay- 
enne. Serve on toast or wafers. 

Cheese Canapes. 

On circular pieces of toast spread cheese that 
has been seasoned with paprika, mustard, cayenne, 
and salt to taste. Bake in oven till cheese is melted. 
Serve at once. 

Bloater Sandwiches. 

Cream one tablespoon butter with three table- 
spoons bloater paste; season with white pepper and 
spread on water wafers. 

Chipped Beef Sandwiches. 

Pour boiling water over chipped beef and let 
stand for two minutes. Drain, grind beef, and smooth 
with creamed butter. Season with finely chopped 
bell pepper and tomato catsup. Spread squares of 
toast with butter and home-made mustard, then with 
meat, and heat in the oven. 



WALTER BAKER'S ^^^^^ chocolates 

Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Year* 



Have you 

A Vacant House 

td let? If so, advertise in "The Examiner" 
Do you want 

To Let Rooms 

Advertise in "The Examiner" for the best 
results. 

Do you want more 

Table Boarders 

this Summer? "Examiner" ads will bring them. 
Have you any 

Apartments 

for rent? Now is the time to advertise. 
"Examiner" ads bring the best results. 

Are you in need of 

More Help? 

"The Examiner" is recognized as the best 
"help wanted" medium in the West. 

It you want to sell real estate. 
Bell your business, sell automo- 
biles, sell horses, sell machinery, 
sell dogs, sell pianos; in fact, to 
tuy, sell, tire or rent anytbing, 
use Ihe fixaminer. 

The San Francisco 'Examiner'' is the 
Best ''Want'' Medium in California 



SOUPS 

"For Soup is but the first of those delights which go to 
make the coming bill of fare." 

Pure Beef Juice. 

Have a thick slice of juicy steak cut from the 
top of the round. Cut it in strips; hold it on a 
gridiron over a clear fire for a minute to draw the 
juice to the surface. Press out the juice with a 
lemon squeezer or any pressure that can be brought 
to bear on it. 

Heated Beef Juice. 

Put two pounds of juicy beef cut in small pieces 
and free from fat into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle, 
add a pinch of salt ; set the jar in a pot of cold water, 
leave it for one hour after the water begins to boil. 
Pour off the juice, pressing the meat with a spoon 
and season with celery salt if liked. 

Mutton Broth. 

Take the lean part of neck and loin, and cut into 
small pieces, removing all the fat. Take about a pound 
of the meat and place it in a saucepan with a pint of 
cold water and put it on the fire. Remove all the scum. 
Add one-half cup pearl barley. Boil at least two 
hours, and as broth boils down add a little cold 
water. Strain. 



/uamtL.i«;_^i^ 



GloTOi Cleaned, all lengrtha, Sc a Pair 
Uonthly contracts for the care of eentlemen'a 
elothingr. We have jnst installed the most modem 
plant in the west for Dry Cleanine Ladies' Baintr 
Garments. Blanlcets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our wagons will call. 195S Cbestutl. 



24 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

^ _ . _ 

Potato Soup. 

Boil half a dozen large potatoes, a couple of car- 
rots, few pieces of celery, little parsley and two onions 
in plenty of water. When tender strain all through 
a fine strainer, season with salt, add a piece of butter 
and about one quart milk. Boil up and add chopped 
parsley before serving. 

Green Kern Soup. 

Take half a cup of green kern and wash it care- 
fully. Put it on with about a quart of water and 
let it cook slowly about three hours. As the water 
boils down add soup stock. Beat the yolk of an egg 
in the tureen and pour the hot soup over it when ready 
to serve. Salt to taste. 

Onion Soup. 

Slice four large onions and fry until transparent in 
one-half - cup butter and then let them simmer for 
nearly an hoyr. Pour over a quart of beef stock or 
milk and bring to a boil. In the tureen have cubes of 
toasted bread and pour hot soup over; add one-half 
cup grated cheese. 

Friday Soup. 

One half pound split peas, carefully picked, and 
put into a saucepan three-quarters full of water. Add 
a piece of smoked beef or sausage and let simmer for 
three hours, adding water as it boils down. When 
done, strain; put two tablespoons of butter in a 

""«r' VIENNA BAKERI '-S"" 

878 McAllister street 



SOUPS 25 

frying pan with one of flour and fry till a light brown. 
Add some of the strained peas to this and stir till 
smooth, then put all together and season to taste. 
Serve with croutons. 

Leek Soup. 

Put a small piece of btitter in saucepan and then 
six or eight leeks cut in small pieces. Keep turning 
for about five minutes so they will not get brown ; 
add water or soup stock for amount desired; season 
with salt and pepper and put in piece of stale bread. 
iStrain through the strainer. Put in croutons and 
serve with grated cheese. 

Asparagus Cream Soup. 

Take three pints soup stock, one can asparagus, 
cut off the tough part and boil the tough parts half 
an hour in the soup stock. Now strain, set back on 
stove, add tablespoon butter that has been well 
mixed with two tablespoons flour. Add the tender 
part of the asparagus and boil gently fifteen minutes. 
Season all. Pour half pint cream into the tureen and 
;add soup slowly. 

Oxtail Soup. 

Wash two large oxtails and cut into pieces. Cut 
one onion fine and fry in one tablespoon drippings. 
When brown, add oxtails to brown, then put into 
soup kettle with four quarts cold water. Add one 
tablespoon salt, one tablespoon mixed herbs, four 
cloves, four peppercorns. Simmer for three or four 

SWAN DRUG CO. pur^^^ug^ 

Devisadero and Fulton Sts., S. F. Phone West 3942 



26 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

hours. Skim off fat, strain. Vegetables cut into 
fancy shapes and boiled twenty minutes may be 
added. 

Tomato and Oyster Bouillon. 

Boil for fifteen minutes one can tomatoes, two 
cups bouillon, one-half bay leaf, one slice onion, one- 
half teaspoon celery seed, one-half teaspoon pepper- 
corns, one teaspoon salt. Strain and add one pint 
oysters. Serve in bouillon cups. 

Mullagatawny Soup. 

Three pounds chicken, one pound veal bones, two 
onions, two sour apples, four quarts cold water, one 
tablespoon fat, one tablespoon curry powder, one tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon sugar, four cloves, four 
peppercorns, juice of one lemon. Boil three hour^ 
strain, and serve with rice. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Soak one pint of black beans over night. In the 
morning, pour off the water and put them on to boil 
in two quarts of cold water. Add some celery, any 
left-over meat or bones, one onion, two teaspoons 
salt, one saltspoon pepper, one-quarter saltspoon of 
cayenne, one saltspoon mustard. Simmer four or 
five hours, or until beans are soft. Add a little cold 
water every half hour, so that the desired quantity, 
two quarts, will always be in the saucepan. Rub the 
beans through a strainer, put the soup on again to 
boil, and add salt, pepper and mustard. When boil- 
ing, thicken with the flour and butter which have 

Telephone Douglas 4744 J. W. WOLF, Pres. 

ZOBEL'S MILLINERY and FURS 

23 Grant Avenue San Francisco 



SOUPS 27 

been cooked together. This will prevent the beans 
from settling. Season to taste. Some like the flavor 
of tomatoes added. If so, strain half a can of toma- 
toes and add to the strained beans. Slice two hard- 
boiled eggs and one lemon thin, put them into the 
tureen and pour the hot soup over them. Serve with 
croutons. 

Gumbo Soup. 

Cut up a chicken as for a fricassee and dredge with 
flour. Fry a sliced onion with a little salt, chipped 
beef in fat; remove onion and beef and brown the 
chicken in that fat. Brown also one quart okra. 
Place the chicken, onion and okra in a kettle, cover 
with boiling water, add one can of tomatoes. Simmer 
till the chicken is tender. Remove the larger bones, 
and all the fat. Add salt, cayenne, and a very little 
sugar. Serve it without straining and with boiled 
rice. 

Bisque d'Ecrevisses. 

Clean carefully twenty ecrevisses. Into a sauce- 
pan put one quart of water, a teaspoon salt, cay- 
enne, a small onion, a carrot, a sprig of celery, all 
finely cut, and one-half teaspoon of kitchen bouquet. 
Then add the ecrevisses and boil about five minutes. 
Take them put and remove the shells. Grind shells in 
a mortar, mix with a little butter. Put paste into 
saucepan with a cup of the liquor in which the ecre- 
visses have been boiled, one quart of bouillon or milk, 
one-half glass of white wine, one-half cup bread 
disks which have been toasted. Simmer together a 
half hour, and then press through a sieve. Put back 

BROCK 6c CO., Grocers 

Presidio Are. and Sacramento St. aii Departments. We>t4oii 



28 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

on the stove and stir with a wooden spoon until it 
comes to a boil. Add the ecrevisses and a small piece 
of butter and serve as soon as the butter has melted. 
It should be of the consistency of cream. 

Mock Bisque. 

Melt one tablespoon butter in pan and rub in one 
tablespoon corn starch; add it to one pint heated 
milk. Strain one-half can tomatoes and add one pint 
water;, heat, and add one teaspoon baking soda. 
When frothy add the milk, and when boiling add 
one-half teaspoon pepper, two teaspoons salt. Serve 
with toasted squares of bread. 

Bisque of Lobster. 

Chop up one pound of lobster meat very fine, melt , 
two ounces of butter, adding three tablespoons sifted 
flour. When smooth add one pint of rich Soup stock, 
stirring well to avoid lumps. When boiled up add the 
lobster meat, one tablespoon of fresh butter, one pint 
of cream, salt, pepper and mace to taste. Boil up and 
serve. A few pieces of lobster can be added to e?ich 
plate. 

Clam Chowder with Tomatoes. 

Fry onions in butter, add flour to thicken. Add 
one can of tomatoes, one bay leaf, one clove, cayenne 
pepper and salt. Chop clam necks fine, cut potatoes 
in small cubes, add to tomatoes and cook until both 
are tender. Before serving, add bodies of two dozen 
clarris, chopped green onion and parsley. A little 
curry powder may be added for flavoring. 

SPECIAL ART EXHIBITIONS 

During Winter and Spring in Our New Gallery 
Fine Selection of Mirrors, Framed and Unframed En^avinsrs and Photo- 
graphs Suitable for Gifts. Framing and Gilding Objects of Art at 
HELGESEN'S, 2239 Fillmore St., near Clay 



SOUPS 29 

Clam-Juice Broth. 

Wash in cold water clams in their shells, place 
them on a stove without water, except a few drops, in 
a granite saucepan, and as they become hot, their shells 
will open ; then carefully pour out the broth, season to 
suit the taste and serve. 

Marrons Puree. 

Shell and peel one pound of chestnuts. Put in a 
covered saucepan with just enough of water to cover. 

When very soft, mash and add a tablespoon of 
butter, pinch of salt, one-half cup of brown sugar, one 
tablespoon of cream. Cook slowly about one-half 
hour. 

Almond Balls. 

One-eighth pound almonds chopped fine. Yolk of 
one egg, well beaten. Add almonds to egg, pinch of 
salt, little grated rind of lemon. Beat white stiff, 
then mix all together. Drop a little from end of 
teaspoon into boiling fat. Put in soup just before 
serving. 

Marrow Dumplings. 

One heaping tablespoon soup fat or marrow 
creamed. Add pinch of salt, little nutmeg and the 
yolks of one or two eggs mixed in gradually; some 
finely chopped parsley and then enough cracker crumbs 
to hold; wet the hands and roll the mixture into 
small balls. Add to the boiling soup, and boil fifteen 
minutes. 

inUM P UADT dry and fancy goods 
Ji/nii r. n/iivi notions, etc. 

Orders Delivered Immediately 

CALIFORNIA and DEVISADERO Tel. We«t 5444 



30 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Cracker Dumplings for Soup. 

Three or four crackers soaked and well drained; 
yolks of two eggs well stirred with a little sugar, salt 
and a few grated almonds. Stir in the soaked crack- 
ers and lastly the well-beaten whites. Drop from tea- 
spoon into boiling fat and put into the tureen and 
pour boiling soup over them. 

Noodles. 

Break two eggs into a bowl and stir in as much 
flour as they will take up in making a very stiff dough. 
Knead well. Roll out thin as a wafer, and when dry 
enough, cut finely. 

Suet Balls. 

One ounce of suet, one and one-half ounces of 
flour, one saltspoon of salt, ice water. 

Free the suet from membrane and chop it very fine ; 
add the flour gradually ; add the salt and sufficient ice 
water to moisten; do not make it wet. Roll this into 
tiny balls the size of a small marble, and drop them 
into the boiling consomme ten minutes before serving 
time. Do not boil rapidly or they will fall apart. 

Macaroons for Soup. 

Two eggs, one teaspoon sifted matzor flour, little 
cinnamon, grated almonds, sugar if desired. Beat 
yolks, flour, and other ingredients together and last 
beaten whites. Drop teaspoon at a time in boil- 
ing fat. 

BROCK & CO, \Our Presidio Roast Coffee 

f IS a great starter, 3 lbs. 
Grocers \ for $1.00. Ring up West 4011 



FISH 

AND FISH SAUCES 

Frying Small Fish. 

The old and true saying is: "Small fish should 
swim twice — once in water and once in oil." Smelts, 
trout, whitebait, and perch are, perhaps, more pala- 
table fried than broiled. Small fish may be stripped 
— that is, the intestines may be pushed out under 
the gills, so that the fish may retain their shape. 
Wash and dry, then dust with salt and pepper, dip 
in egg and roll in bread crumbs, or they may be 
rolled in cornmeal. Have ready a good-sized pan 
with sufficient oil to cover. Put the fish in a frying 
basket, then into the hot oil and cook five minutes. 
Drain on brown paper and serve. Where a small 
quantity/ of fat is used, and the fish cooked on one 
side and then turned and cooked on the other, the 
method is really not frying — it is sauteing; the result 
is much more indigestible than real irying. 

Lemon Fish. 

Boil three tablespoons of vinegar, one sliced 
onion, one laurel leaf, six whole peppers, salt, some 
celery, and a little water, then add sliced fish. When 
fish has boiled twenty minutes, remove and arrange 
it on platter. Strain the fish gravy and add to it 
the beaten yolks of three eggs, juice of two lemons, 
sugar to taste, and twelve grated almonds. Let all 

Glores Cluned, all lentrths, Ge a Pair 
Monthly contracts for the care of gentlemen's 
clothing. We have Just installed the most modem 
plant in the west for Dry Clcanine Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our wagons will call. 1955 Cliestiut St. 






32 COUNCIL COOK BOOK 



come to a boil, then pour over the fish, sprinkle finely- 
chopped parsley on top, and garnish with sliced 
lemons. 

Fresh Cod or Striped Bass, 

Cut into pieces ready to serve, after which salt 
them for an hour. Into the fish kettle put a quan- 
tity of water, large onion sliced, carrot also sliced, 
turnip, celery root, and boil fifteen minutes. Add the 
fish and large piece of butter, tiny piece of cinnamon, 
pepper to taste. Boil fifteen minutes longer, then 
add teaspoon flour mixed with cold water. Boil up 
well and add salt or pepper if needed. Remove fish 
and arrange on platter. Beat yolks of three eggs with 
a tablespoon cold water; after straining out vege- 
tables, add the hot gravy in which fish was boiled. 
Return to fire and stir till thick enough. Garnish 
with chopped parsley. 

Salmon Trout With Capers. 

Put fish on to boil in a little water with celery, 
onion, carrot, and sliced lemon. After vegetables are 
cooked, take them out and add little brown sugar and 
dash of vinegar, chopped almonds, and capers. 
Thicken with one-half teaspoon corn starch. Take 
out fish, beat up two eggs, and pour sauce into the 
eggs, stirring well to prevent curdling. If the sauce 
be not thick enough, return it to the kettle for a few 
minutes. Pour over fish and serve. 

Sweet and Sour Fish. 

Place the fish in strong salt water for one hour 
before cooking. Take three parts of water and one 

WALTER BAKER'S ^'^^^^ chocolates 

Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Year* 



FISH 33 

of vinegar, put in saucepan with some sliced onions 
and some raisins, and let boil until tender. Add 
brown sugar to taste, a piece of rye bread from 
which the crust has been removed, and sorne 
molasses. Boil the sauce, then place the fish in and 
let all cook twenty minutes. When done, arrange 
on platter with sliced lemon and chopped parsley. 

Pompano a la Meuniere. 

Grease waxed papers that are a little larger than 
the fish. Place a fish on each piece, season with salt 
and little pepper, cover with chopped parsley and a 
slice of lemon. Fold paper closely; fasten with 
toothpick if necessary. Lay them in a buttered pan 
and bake fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve in the 
papers. Sandabs may be prepared in the same 
manner. 

Sole a la Normande. 

From a large sole remove the back skin and with 
a sharp knife carefully cut out the side fins. Lay the 
fish on the dish in which it is to be served. Insert in 
the flesh of the fish some small slices of truffle. 
Brush the fish with melted butter, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and dust with fine crumbs. Pour around 
it a tumbler of good wine and place in a moderate 
oven till nearly done. Then put croutons around the 
edge of the dish, brushing them with the white of 
an egg to make them adhere to the dish. Put over 
and' around the fish a small can of mushrooms, sliced, 
oysters, mussels, picked shrimps, and some quenelles. 
Add a little more melted butter, a little more wine, 
and put in the oven for five minutes longer. 



W. F. ROBERTS 



2847 CALIFORNIA ST. 
Phone WEST 891 

Fresh Fish Every Friday 



34 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Fish "Elizabeth." 

Get a three or four pound striped bass. Leave 
whole and season with salt, pepper, and ginger. Put 
in a baking platter with a large slice of buttpr on top, 
and bake twenty minutes, basting often. In the 
meantime prepare a rich poulette sauce, using one 
tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, the liquid 
from one can of mushrooms, and one-half pint of 
cream. Season with pepper and salt, one tea- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoon mushroom 
catsup, and last the mushrooms. Pour this over the 
cooked fish, and return to the oven for five minutes, 
and serve very hot. Oysters and picked shrimps can 
also be added to the sauce, also a wine glass of white 
wine. 

Fish au GratiiL 

One can tomatoes,' a little garlic, onion, catsup, 
a few drops tabasco sauce, salt, one and a half table- 
spoons sherry, oyster gravy, and parsley. When this 
is cooked, strain and pour around fish that has been 
seasoned with salt and pepper and placed in a but- 
tered pan. On top of the fish put bread crumbs and 
little pieces of butter. Bake for fifteen minutes, but 
do not baste. Then put oysters and shrimps on top 
and around fish and bake five minutes longer. 

* 
Sole Neapolitan. ' 

Blend in a saucepan one tablespoon butter and 
one of flour; add one cuj) of white wine, one of 
mushroom liquor, salt, pepper, one onion finely 
chopped, a little chives, a small can of mushrooms. 

Phone West 1000 W«7/ do the Rest 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

203S-2034 O'FARRELL ST. 



COAL 



FISH 3S 

some kitchen bouquet, and boil all for ten minutes. 
Into a baking pan put a large sole, cover with the 
cooked sauce, and bake twenty minutes. When done, 
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

Halibut Italian Style. 

In one-half cup olive oil fry one-half onion and 
two cloves of garlic a light brown. Add three-fourths 
of a can of tomatoes and eight potatoes of medium 
size, cut into halves. Cook all until half done, then 
put in two pounds of halibut cut into squares, and 
meat from one crab or small neck clams. When done, 
add two wine glasses of claret and six tiny Spanish 
peppers (chili peki peppers). 

Baked Bass k la Wellington. 

Select a five-pound bass and see that the flesh 
is firm, remove the scales and clean. Do not remove 
the head, tail, or fins. Put into a double boiler one 
tablespoon of butter, two cups of stale bread crumbs, 
one tablespoon of chopped onion, one teaspoon of 
chopped parsley, two teaspoons of chopped capers, 
one-fourth cup of sherry. Heat all the above ingredi- 
ents, season with paprika and salt, and stuff the 
bass with the mixture. Sew up the fish, put into a 
hot oven, bake and baste with sherry wine and butter. 

Fish Timbal. 

Chop or grind two pounds uncooked whitefish. 
Soak a quarter of a loaf of white bread and squeeze 
dry. Beat together for half an hour with one- 
quarter pound butter, one-half pint sweet cream, four 



5f ratf on 's^°""""''i,X"'°'""°'' 

IncoTforated 136 Geary St. San Francisco 



36 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

eggs separated, salt, pepper, little lemon juice. Put 
this mixture into a well-buttered mold and then the 
covered mold into a pan of boiling water and boil 
one hour. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

Scalloped Fish Roe. 

Boil three large roes in water with little vinegar 
for ten minutes. Plunge into cold water; wipe the 
roe dry. Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs 
into a cup of melted butter, teaspoon anchovy paste, 
tablespoon chopped parsley, juice of half a lemon, 
salt and pepper to taste. Add a cup of bread crumbs 
and then mix in lightly the roe that has been broken 
into pieces. Put all in baking dish, cover with bread 
crumbs and flakes of butter, and brown in oven. 

Fish Sauce (very rich, but delicious). 

One pint white wine, one pint olive oil, one-half 
pint water, six sliced onions, six sliced tomatoes (or 
canned)., tw6 or three laurel leaves, some whole 
peppers, five whole cloves (remove the heads). Boil 
ten minutes arid strain. Lay the fish in kettle, pour 
sauce over and boil. Place toast on platter, then 
fish, and next pour the gravy, to which add all 
kinds of shell fish. 

Sauce Tartare. 

Make half a cup of mayonnaise with tarragon 
vinegar and a little onion juice. Just before serving 
add half a teaspoon each of parsley and capers 
chopped fine. 



OLYMPIA BEER 



Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 
unsurpassed for quality, is 
for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" --demand it. 



FISH 37 

Tartar Sauce. 

Mix together one teaspoon lejnon juice, one- 
quarter of a teaspoon salt, one tablespoon vinegar, 
and one tablespoon Worcestershire, and heat over hot 
water. In a small saucepan put two heaping table- 
spoons butter and set over the fire until a pale brown 
Strain into the first mixture and serve at once in a 
gravy boat. 

Sauce HoUandaise. 

Mix one tablespoon butter and one of flour in 
a saucepan and add gradually half a pint of boiling 
water. Stir until it just reaches" the boiling pomt; 
take from the fire and add the yolks of two eggs. 
Into another saucepan put a slice of onion, a bay 
leaf, and a clove of garlic; add four tablespoons vine- 
gar, and stand over the fire until the vinegar is 
reduced one-half. Turn this into the sauce, stir for a 
moment; strain through a fine sieve; add half a tea- 
spoon salt and serve. This sauce may be varied by 
adding lemon juice instead of vinegar, or by using 
the water in which the fish was boiled. It is one of 
the daintiest of all sauces. 

Sauce Beamaise. 

Put three-fourths cup of butter into a bowl, 
cover with cold water, and wash out the salt, using 
a spoon. Divide butter into three parts. Put one 
piece in a saucepan with the yolks of two eggs, few 
drops lemon juice, and two tablespoons tarragon 
vinegar. Place saucepan in a larger one containing 
boiling water and stir constantly with a wire whisk 



U VfMi Wnnt advertise in THE EVENING 
V lOUVVam pOST. Orders taken by Phone 
Help Douglas 4460 : : 



Telephones Douslas 3161 and 2162 

SO LARI'S GRILL 

Geary Street next to St. Francis 
San Francisco 

Private Rooms second Floor 

Music from 6 to 8 p. m. by Lada's orchestra 



"HONE WEST 5978 



AT 



DARBEE & IMMEL CO. 



1888-90 Fillmore St. 



San francisco 



EsUblished 1878 Phone Park 265 

Heineman & Stern 

1040 McAlliiter Street 

Packers of 

Tongues, Smoked and 
Pickled Beef 




Mannf actoreri of all kinds of Sauage 

All our Meats and Sausages are Man- 
ufactured in Compliance with the 
State Pure Food Law. 



The Sugarie 

QUALITY CANDIES 
ICE CREAM AND ICES 



PHONE ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED 

Haight Street 

. at Masonic Ave. 

TELEPHONE PARK 9193 



JAS. J. GORMAN EDWARD THOMAS 

PHONE FRANKLIN 265 

Gorman & Thomas 

David m. fletchkr Co. 
Prescription Druggists 

FREE DELIVERY 

^.Closed on Sundays at 2 p. m. 
1085 O'FARRELL STREET 



NEAR FRANKLIN 



■ AN FRANCISCO 



FISH 39 

until butter is melted. Then add second piece of 
butter and as it thickens the third piece. Add one- 
third cup boiling water, cook one minute, season 
with one-fourth teaspoon salt, little cayenne. Add 
one teaspoon each of chopped parsley and fresh 
tarragon. 

Fricassee of Oysters. 

Heat a piece of butter the size of an egg, add a 
wine glass of sherry, one cup of oyster juice, one- 
half cup of cream, cayenne pepper, yolks of four 
eggs. When all this has boiled to a custard, add one 
pint of California oysters which have been seasoned 
with salt and pepper and the juice of one-half lemon. 
Cook a few minutes only after adding the oysters. 

Oysters a la Richelieu. 

Forty small Eastern oysters for eight persons. 
Boil oysters and liquor five minutes. Take oysters 
from liquor, cool, and cut in halves. Make sauce of 
two ounces butter, one ounce flour, a pint of oyster 
liquor, one pint cream, nutmeg, red pepper, white 
pepper, and salt to taste. Cook five minutes, then 
add. yolks of four eggs with juice of half a lemon. 
When thick, add oysters. Put in shells or ramekins, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and bits of butter. Bake 
and serve. 

Roe Sauce. 

Wash the roe, throw them into a kettle of boil- 
ing water and allow them to simmer for twenty 
minutes ; drain, put them in a bowl, and with a silver 



When you need a Plumber quickly telephone to 
FRED T. KNOLES, 2000 Fillmore Street. 
Telephone West 1855 



40 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

fork remove carefully all membrane; add a quarter 
of a pound of butter, and heat over a^ pan of hot 
water. When thoroughly hot, add a gill of cream or 
milk, a level teaspoon salt, ten drops of onion juice, 
a quarter of a teaspoon mace, and serve in a sauce- 
boat. 

Rich Poulette Sauce. 

Into two tablespoons melted butter smooth two 
tablespoons flour, one-half teaspoon each salt and 
pepper. Stir in gradually one pint heated cream or 
milk, stir until thick, then add half a teaspoon lemon 
juice. Have ready two w^ll-beaten yolks of eggs 
and throw in quickly to the thickened sauce, remov- 
ing almost immediately from fire. 

Mussels. 

' Into a saucepan put a large spoon butter, one- 
half onion chopped, one-half clove of garlic. Let it 
brown lightly and blend in a large spoon of flour. 
Add the mussels (two pounds) that have been well 
cleaned, salt, pepper to taste, one-half cup water or 
stock. Cover and steam till the shells open, and add 
chopped parsley. 

Stewed Lobster. 

One lobster, one-fourth wine glass of wine, one- 
third pint milk, three eggs (yolks only), one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper. Remove 
lobster from the shell, taking care to save the green 
creamy substance. Cut meat into small pieces, place 
in stewpan over the fire with the butter, salt, and 

COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 

Beit in the World. Hare held the Market 128 Years 



WALTER BAKER'S 



FISH 41 

pepper, and stew briskly for three minutes; then add 
the wine and cook for five minutes. Beat the yolks 
lightly, stir them into the milk, and add to the lobster. 
Cook slowly till it thickens, and serve. 

Lobster American. 

One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon olive oil. 
Blend in one tablespoon flour, one clove of garlic cut 
fine, one teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, 
and paprika, one cup strained tomatoes, one cup 
soup stock. Let this cook well, then add one lobster 
cut in pieces. 

Deviled Crab. 

Chop up crab. Strain three-fourths can tomatoes, 
add chopped parsley, tobasco sauce, salt, pepper, 
Worcestershire sauce, cayenne pepper, and two or 
three tablespoons cracker meal to thicken. Put all 
in hot butter (a good slice), and let cook five or six 
minutes. 

Soft-shell Crabs. 

Wash carefully six crabs, then throw them into 
a bowl containing one pint of milk and three beaten 
eggs. Let them stand until most of the liquid has 
been absorbed, then roll in cracker crumbs and fry. 
When done, serve with bunches of fried parsley. 

Crab Espanol. 

Cream one tablespoon of flour with the same 
amount of butter slowly over the fire, then add 
enough milk to get right consistency. Add a pinch 
of salt, Worcestershire sauce, one chopped bell pep- 

Phone West IGNATZ BECK 

Pharmacist and Chemist 
ELLIS and Buchanan Sts. San Francisco 



42 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

per, one cup of chopped olives, two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped fine, and shredded crab. Serve in ramekins. 

Baked Crab. 

One crab, shredded; two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped; two tablespoons bread crumbs, juice of 
one lemon, pepper and salt; mix well. Melted but- 
ter size of an egg, tablespoon flour; cook smooth, 
and add milk to make a creamy sauce; season with 
mustard, mace, pepper and salt; mix with crab, sift 
browned bread crumbs over top. Bake fifteen min- 
utes. 

Crab Souffle. 

Make a pint of cream sauce. Add the yolks of 
three eggs, well beaten, cayenne, and a cup of 
grated cheese. Add one pint of shredded crab, fold 
in the beaten whites of the eggs, pour into a baking 
dish and bake in a quick oven. 

Crab Frisco. 

Fry an onion light brown in two ounces butter. 
Remove oi^on and add to butter one tablespoon 
flour. After blending well, add one pint cream, and 
when thick add a shredded crab, salt, pepper, paprika, 
and a cup of grated cheese that has been smoothed 
with butter. Serve on buttered toast. 

Shrimp Poulette. 

Smooth two ounces of butter with one ounce of 
flour an(i add two cups of milk. Let it thicken, 
then add a pinch of baking soda, two tablespoons 
tomato catsup, some Worcestershire sauce, a little 

LQ Q T \/\ O M ^ «^ S. H. & M. Skirt Binding 
. O. 1 iVl ^^ IM O I Marien's Featherbone 

658 Mission Street DeLong's Hooks and Eyes 



FISH 4^ 



onion powder, salt, pepper, and from one-quarter to 
half a pound of shrimps. Let all come to a boil, and 
serve in ramekins. 



Shrimps a la Creole. 

Take two ounces of butter, one-half a small 
onion, grated, and to this add one pint of shrimps. 
Let cook a few minutes, then add one-half pint of 
canned tomatoes, salt, pepper, cayenne, and before 
serving add three tablespoons of French peas. Cook 
about ten minutes. 

Saut£ Royale. 

Cook forty-fiVe minutes one-half can tomatoes, 
one large green pepper, one large onion, clove of 
garlic; strain; in another pan blend well one table- 
spoon butter, three tablespoons flour, one cup rich 
cream, wine glass white wine, wine glass mushroom 
liquor, salt, paprika to taste. Add strained tomatoes 
and heat. Then add one small lobster and one small 
crab cut in pieces, one-half pound shrimps, one can 
button mushrooms. Serve in a border of cooked rice 
or individually with crouton^. 

Cocktail Sauce for Clams or Oysters. 

One can tomatoes, one teaspoon pepper, one tea- 
spoon mustard, one-fourth teaspoon cinnamon, one- 
fourth teaspoon allspice, one-half tablespoon salt, 
one-half cup vinegar. Cook slowly for two hours and 
rub through a sieve; in serving, add a little chopped 
celery or grated horseradish. 



OLYMPIA BEER 



Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 
unsurpassed for quality, is 
for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" --demand it. 




^ Back piece of (arnitare in oar incom- 
parable display is characterized by 
^ality and corre^ness of design. 
^ The latest proda^ions from the 
leading wortshops can always be seen 
in oar warerooms at moderate prices. 
Q Foreign and Domestic Tapeitries, 
Cretonnes and Tafletas for town or 
country home continually in stock. 



L. R 



reiss 



& s 



ons 



B 



Farnitore, Interior Decoration 
Cabinet-Makers, Upholsterers 

Van Ness Ave. and Sntter St. 
Gor. Softer and Stockton Sts. 
:: After March 1910 ::' 
San Francisco - . - Gal. 



ENTREES 



"When art and nature join, the effect will be 
Some nice ragout or charming fricassee." 

Celery Timbals. 

Six celery roots, peel, steam in soup or water, 
with butter. When cooked, mash through a sieve. 
Beat four eggs, add celery, one-half cup of cream, 
pepper, salt. Bake in timbal forms or muffin pan 
in pan of boiling water about twenty minutes. Serve 
with poulette sauce. 

Green Peppers and Oysters. 

Scoop out some bell peppers and fill with the 
following mixture : Some grated bread crumbs, one 
or two well-beaten eggs, thin slice of butter (melted), 
salt, pepper, some chopped celery, and when mixed 
add three fried oysters. Moisten with a little soup 
stock and bake the filled pepper about fifteen minutes. 

Brain Timbals. 

Skin and boil brains. Press through a sieve. 
Soak bread in milk, and strain. Beat brains and 
bread together. Grate some garlic and onion, yolks 
of two eggs ; beat all together. White to snow, 
pinch of salt, pepper to taste. Bake in well-buttered 
timbal cups for one-half hour, putting boiling water 
in pan. Serve with following sauce : Melt a thin 

Gloves Cltianed, all lengths, 5c a Pair 
Monthly contrsicts for the care of gentlemen's 
clothing. We have just installed the most modern 
plant in the west for Dry Cleaning Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phono West 926. Our wagons will call. 1955 Chestnut SL 




46 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

slice of butter in a double boiler; add one tablespoon 
flour and mix till smooth. Add a cup or more of cold 
milk, stirring until thick. Add a tablespoon tomato 
catsup, a pinch of baking soda, one glass sherry, one 
teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoon mush- 
room sauce, pinch of salt. Stir well and let all come 
to a boil. 

Tomato Custards. 

Simmer for fifteen minutes in a covered sauce- 
pan four cups chopped tomatoes, four eggs, one sliced 
onion, one bay leaf, and sprig of parsley. Strain, 
and if there be not two cups of liquid, add water. 
Beat four eggs and add to liquid. Pour into greased 
baking cups and stand them in a pan of water and 
bake until firm — ^about fifteen minutes. Turn out and 
serve with cream sauce containing green peas. 

Creamed Mushrooms. 

Make a poulette sauce, flavor with sherry. Cut 
into halves one can of mushrooms, and chop finely 
three hard-boiled eggs. Add all to poulette sauce; 
let it come to a boil. Put it into ramekins, then 
sprinkle with cracker crumbs and pieces of butter, 
and bake in a pan of water for twenty-five minutes. 

Cauliflower With Shrimps. 

Boil a cauliflower in salt water and strain. Take 
one-half pint pastry cream, one-half teaspoon corn 
starch, butter the size of an egg, one tomato pressed 
through a strainer, pepper ahd salt to taste. Boil 
all thoroughly; add one-half or one pound of picked 
shrimps, and pour over the cauliflower. 



SOMMER X KAUfMANN 

Two Slorei--119-lZ5Grant Are. ar. Gearj, 836-840 Market St., nr. Stockton 



Good Shoci Onlf 



ENTREES 47 

Chicken i la Sweetbread. 

Take the breast of chicken that has been fricas- 
seed, cut up into small pieces, and add mushrooms. 
Make either brown or cream sauce. Serve in pate 
shells. 

Sweetbreads or Veal Fricassee. 

Brown butter, flour, and grated onion; add table- 
spoon of white wine, a little lemon juice, one-half cup 
of bouillon or liquor of can of mushrooms, yolk of 
one hard-boiled egg, red pepper, salt. Boil until 
tender, add caper and chopped parsley. Mushrooms 
may be added. 

Sweetbread Saut6. 

Clean sweetbread, boil until tender, and cut 
in small pieces. Take one tablespoon butter; blend 
in one table-spoon flour; add half the liquor of a can 
of mushrooms and enough soup stock to make the 
necessary amount of gravy; add a little catsup, 
Worcestershire sauce, mushroom catsup, and a few 
drops of kitchen bouquet, a clove of garlic, and a 
small onion; salt and pepper to taste. Cook this 
about an hour, and then remove garlic and onion. 
Add sweetbreads, mushrooms, and two hard-boiled 
eggs chopped very fine. 

Sweetbread and Oyster Pie. 

Line a pudding dish with puff paste. Break in 
small pieces sweetbreads that have been parboiled. 
Drain a pint of oysters and place a layer on the 
sweetbreads. Pour in a rich cream sauce, then cover 
with puff paste and bake in a quick oven. 



FRECKLES 

CAN BE 

REMOVED 



Baer's Kurtz Freckle Salrt posi- 
tivehr removet frccklei, tan and 
lanbarn. Keeps the ikin smooth 
and white. Manafactnred by- 
Baer Drag Co. 722 Market St. ,S.F. 



For Sale by all 
Druggists 

Price 50 Cents 



48 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Oysters and Potatoes. 

Beat lightly with a fork one pint of hot mashed 
potatoes. Blanch and pound to a paste eight ounces 
of almonds, smoothed with thick cream. Add these to 
the potatoes. Beat together until creamy, pile on a 
platter, cover with fried oysters and slices of lemon. 

Crab, Mushroom, and Oyster Poulette. 

One shredded crab, one can mushrooms, fifty 
small oysters. Take two heaping tablespoons butter, 
two tablespoons flour; smooth together. Add one 
cup mushroom liquor, two cups milk. Boil till thick, 
adding one clove of garlic, salt and pepper. When 
Sauce is thick, remove garlic and add crab and mush- 
rooms that have been cut into small pieces. Before 
removing from the stove, add the oysters and some 
sherry and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve in 
ramekins. 

Oyster Noodles. 

Into a pudding dish put layers of broad boiled 
noodles, alternating with layers of oysters dipped in 
cracker crumbs, with plenty of butter and salt to 
taste; pour over the whole a pint of pastry cream and 
the juice of the oysters; bake until brown — about 
twenty minutes. 

Tamale Entree. 

Two cans tamales mixed with an equal quantity 
of cold cooked macaroni. Season with salt, paprika, 
one teaspoon each chili and Worcestershire sauce, 
one teaspoon onion juice, and one clove of garlic. 

2847 CALIFORNIA ST 

Phone WEST 891 

Oysters, Crabs and Shrimps 



W. F. ROBERTS 



ENTREES 49 

Put mixture into ramekins, sprinkle grated Parmesan 
cheese, and flakes of butter on top, and bake in a pan 
of water twenty minutes. 

Cheese Souffle. 

Beat one tablespoon butter and yolks of three 
eggs until very light. Then add the stifif beaten 
whites and one-half pint charlotte russe cream. Have 
mixed three-fourths cup of grated cheese, one scant 
cup flour, a pinch of salt, and a little cayenne pepper. 
Add this mixture last and bake in well-buttered dish 
about twenty minutes, or until a light brown. 

Ravioli. 

Make a soft noodle dough, roll out thin, cut in 
squares, place filling in center and fold corners to- 
gether, pinching slightly. Drop lightly in boiling 
water that has been well salted, cook ten minutes, 
and serve with pepper sauce ; garnish the dish with 
crisp lettuce leaves and sprinkle plentifully with 
grated cheese. 

Filling: Place cold meat, veal or beef preferred, 
in food chopper with a few almonds, small onion, one 
or two hard-boiled eggs, and cut in few green olives; 
add to mixture ground sage, rosemary, salt, and 
grated cheese to taste. Moisten all with salad oil. 

Sauce: Boil three or four dried red peppers until 
tender; squeeze and strain. Place about two table- 
spoons fat or salad oil in frying pan, cut in a small 
piece of garlic, one heaping tablespoon of flour, and 
let boil ; add the juice and water from the peppers, 
one teaspoon of cummin seed, salt to taste, and a 
little soup stock. Add green olives before serving. 

J^gf 1 1 If 'q /^''nc Equipagesand Automobiles 

M\.^lljr O 1623-1631 Pine Street 

Phones Franklin 216 

Franklin 217 San Francisco, Cal. 



so COUNCIL COOK BOOKf 

> 
Home-Made Chicken Tamales. 

Boil till, tender a large chicken. Have two 
quarts of stock left when chicken is done. Remove 
thicken and cut into medium-sized pieces. Into the 
stock pour gradually one cup of corn meal or farina, 
stirring until it thickens. If not the proper consist- 
ency, add a little more meal. Season with one table- 
spoon chili sauce, three tablespoons tomato catsup, 
salt, one teaspoon Spanish pepper sauce, one table- 
spoon Worcestershire. Simmer gently thirty minutes, 
then add chicken. Serve in ramekins. 

Enchiladas. 

Make a dough of cornmeal and wheat flour and 
water. Roll it out in thin, round cakes ; cook quickly 
in a pan that has not been greased, then roll in a 
cloth to keep soft and warm. Grind one cup sausage, 
add one-half grated onion, one tablespoon Worcester- 
shire satice, and fill the warm cakes with this mix- 
ture. Roll them when filled, and pour over them a 
sauce made of two tablespoons drippings into which 
two tablespoons of flour have been smoothed. Add 
one cup soup stock, one cup strained tomatoes, two 
tablespoons vinegar, one tablespoon Spanish pepper 
sauce. Sprinkle grated cheese on top. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Boil a chicken in as little water as possible until 
the meat falls from the bones, chop rather fine and 
season with pepper and salt. Put into- a mold a layer 
of chopped meat and then a layer of hard-boiled 
eggs, cut in slices. Fill the mold with alternate 



Borden's Pioneer Milk 



RICHEST 
PUREST 
BEST 



ENTREES SI 

layers of meat and eggs until nearly full. Boil down 
the liquor left in the kettle until half the quantity. 
While warm, add one-quarter of an ounce of gela- 
tine, and when dissolved, pour into the mold over 
the meat. Set in a cool place overnight to jelly. 



Calf's Foot Jelly. 

After carefully washing one calf's foot, put it 
on with one quart water. Boil from four to five 
hours. Strain and let stand overnight. Put on stove 
next day and when it begins to boil add the stiff- 
beaten whites of two eggs; boil till clear, then strain 
through cheesecloth. Add sherry and sugar to taste. 
Let it become firm before serving. 

Spanish Onion Rarebit. 

Boil two large onions until very soft, drain, chop, 
and return to the saucepan with a small piece of 
butter. Add milk, salt, pepper, a dash of tabasco 
sauce, one teaspoon prepared mustard, one-half cu^ 
grated cheese. Stir until of the consistency of 
custard. 

Salpicons. 

A salpicon is a mixture of various kinds of cold 
cooked meats cut into small dice and mixed with a 
thick, rich sauce, and it -may be used in filling patties, 
vol-au-vents, etc. Dark sauces may be used in com- 
bination with dark meats, and light or creamy sauces 
with light meats. A salpicon of lobster and shrimps 
is delicious. 

Presidio Ave. <nd Sacramento Street f , • > . 

PHONE w»T4o„ S day right. : : 



NATHAN-DOHRMANN CO, 



HAVE MOVED TO 



UNION SQUARE 

Geary and Stockton Streets 

ENTIRE MEZZANINE devoted to Labor-Saving 
Devices and Kitchen Utensils of all Descriptions 



MRS. J. SHEEHAN HISS A. HAYES 

Mrs. J. Coughlan & Co. 

FINE 
MILLINERY 

Phone Franklin 1085 

1526 Bush Street 

Neat Van New Ave. San Francisco, Cal. 


ARMAND CAIllfAU, Inc. 

Ladies' and Misses' Suits, 
Coats, Skirts, Wai.ts, 
Corsets, Underwear, 
Negligees, Veilings. 

N. W. cor. Grant Ave. and Geary St. 

Ph»Dc Kttntj 4820 Saa FraiicUo 




CANNED GOODS 

Highest Grade 

Haas Brothers 

San Framcisco. 



Baumgarten Bros. 



Caterer* of H/fC A TC Only 
High- Grade ^"'^-^ ' "J ^^ 

Prices Reasonable 
Service Promptly 



Clover Market 



2019-2021 nUMORE 
PboBC WEST 65 



Line lliai nCl piieirt WEST 2730 

Our Specialties 

Fillets of Beef, Crowns and 
Saddles of Lamb, Calf Sweet 
Breads and Brains always 
on hand. 



ENTREES S3 



Curried Eggs. 

One tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of flour, 
one teaspoon of curry powder, add one cup milk 
stirred in slowly; cook until it boils; add teaspoon of 
onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. Take six hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters lengthwise, slide gently 
into the sauce so as not to drop out yolks. Stir as 
little as possible, just getting the sauce over the eggs. 
Cook until eggs are heated. Serve with points of 
toast and parsley. 

Eggs a la Council. 

Make cream sauce, not too thick; flavor with 
Worcestershire sauce, break eggs in, and put grated 
cheese on top. Bake in hot oven. 

Fricasseed Eggs. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, remove shells. Roll 
them in flour, then in egg, to which has been added 
one-half teaspoon of oil, one-half teaspoon of vinegar, 
a few drops of onion juice, one teaspoon chopped 
parsley, a little nutmeg and salt. When quite cov- 
ered, roll in vermicelli that has been broken into fine 
bits and fry in deep butter or dripping. Serve with 
the following sauce: One tablespoon butter; one 
tablespoon flour, browned together; add one-half cup 
white wine and a cup of bouillon. Season with salt 
and cayenne and boil five minutes. Add one teaspoon 
each of chopped chives and parsley, some chopped 
olives and mushrooms ; bring to a boil again and 
pour over the eggs. 



Phone West 1000 We'll do the Rett 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

2036-20S4 O'FARRELL ST. 



COAL 



54 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Poached Eggs a la Larkspur. 

Fry tomatoes (cut one-half inch thick) in butter, 
pepper and salt. Have prepared slices of bread cut 
round, and fried in butter. Put on a hot platter with 
a slice of tomato on each. Poach as many eggs as are 
required, in boiling salt water. Lift out very care- 
fully, placing one egg on each tomato. Add to the 
gravy, in which tomatoes were fried, two tablespoons 
of cream, one teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, one 
teaspoon mushroom catsup, juice of half a lemon, 
and a teaspoon of flour to thicken. Cook up once 
and pour over eggs. Serve very hot. 

Spanish Omelette. 

Make an omelette, pour through the center and 
around the side a sauce made of one cup of tomatoes, 
strained, one tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of 
chopped onion, three tablespoons of chopped green 
peppers; season with paprika and salt; garnish the 
omelette with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Egg Bird's Nest 

Take the white of one tgg, beat to a froth. 
Place it in a ramekin, making a hollow in the center, 
in which you place the unbroken yolk. Put this in a 
moderate oven and allow to brown slightly. 

Eggs a la Stork. 

Melt one large tablespoon of butter; add one 
large tablespoon flour and smooth it; then stir in 
one pint of milk; add salt, paprika, one teaspoon 



ni Vl^Dl A RI717P Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 

liLlLVlrlA DUlJllV unsurpassed for quahty.i. 

KJMJ3.L1J.L ira. M^^MJRW ^^^ ^^,^ ^^ ^„ ^^^ g„cer. 

"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



ENTREES SS 

Worcestershire sauce, one cup grated cheese; stir 
till cheese is melted, and break in carefully as many 
eggs as desired. Bake slowly till the eggs are set. 
Serve on buttered toast. 

I 

Egg Timbals. 

Allow one egg for each timbal. To four eggs, 
slightly beaten, add one-fourth cup of cream, a few 
drops of onion juice, salt, paprika. Turn the mix- 
ture into small buttered molds ; set in a pan of hot ■ 
water and cook till firm. Serve with a mushroom or 
shrimp sauce. 

Eggs Suzette. 

Bake and cut lengthwise large potatoes. Scoop 
out immediately, and beat up with it one whole egg, 
milk, butter, pepper, and salt, and also a little grated 
cheese. In the bottom of potato shell sprinkle in 
layer of finely chopped ham, then a layer of potatoes. 
Make a deep scoop and drop in the yolk of an egg, 
taking care that it dpes not break. Fill to the top 
with the potato and smooth with knife dipped in egg. 
Bake again seven or eight minutes in hot oven. 

Eggs Spanish. 

Boil eggs hard;' after cooling, remove shells 
and halve lengthwise. Cook thirty minutes fresh or 
canned tomatoes with minced green onions, garlic, 
parsley, a laurel leaf, salt and pepper, and cayenne 
to taste. Strain. Melt a slice of butter, add a little 
flour, and then add sauce gradually. Cook ten min- 
utes; place eggs carefully in sauce and serve. 

ARCADE PBARMACY The^Ss*"" 

Cor. Pott and Buchanan Stt. Phone west 63 



56 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Tomato With Egg, 

Cut top from tomatoes, remove seeds, put a raw 
egg in each tomato, dust with salt, pepper, and finely 
chopped parsley. Place in hot oven until egg is set. 
Serve vi^ith cream sauce. 

Egg Chops. 

Rub together one tablespoon butters-two of flour, 
and some scalding hot milk, boiling and stirring til! 
thick. When cool, add one raw egg, next one-half 
can of mushrooms chopped with the whites of six 
hard-boiled eggs, and the yolks which have been 
pressed through a sieve. Form into shape, dip in 
egg and crumbs, and fry. A French chop bone or 
small length of boiled macaroni gives the desired 
effect. Heap mashed potatoes in center of dish and 
surround with chops. 

^ Egg Rarebit. 

Make a cream sauce. Grate one-half pound 
American and Swiss cheese mixed, or American 
alone ; add to the sauce. Chop three hard-boiled eggs, 
add to the sauce, season with salt and pepper, and 
serve on buttered toast. ) 

Eggs a la Russe. 

Have some eggs boiled hard. Halve them, and 
lay them on a slice of tomato, and then on a lettuce 
leaf. Have some caviar, mixed with grated onion, 
pepper, and lemon juice. Spread on the halves of the 
eggs and spread with mayonnaise. Sprinkle finely 
chopped parsley on top. 

WALTER BAKER'S ^^^^^ chocolates 

Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



ENTREES 57 

Eggs a la Tripe. 

Slice six hard-boiled eggs crosswise into pieces 
the thickness of silver dollars. Slice a large onion, 
smothering in plenty of butter, but do not brown. 
When the onions are soft, add a cup of cream sauce. 
Boil for three minutes. Add the sliced eggs, remove 
from fire. Add chopped chives. Serve in vegetable 
dish. 



Eggs a la Mexicana. 

Boil six dried Spanish peppers twenty minutes. 
Drain, remove the seeds, and chop fine. Fry in but- 
ter one-half an onion and one clove of garlic. Add 
one cup of uncooked rice, cover with one cup of soup 
stock, and cook till tender. Add a lump of butter, 
salt, and, when done, cover with six eggs; then 
scramble all together. Serve on a hot dish. 



Stuffed Eggs in Tomato Jelly, 

Boil eggs hard, cut lengthwise and mash yolks 
with salt, pepper, and ground chicken livers which 
have been previously cooked, and chopped celery. 
Take half a can of tomatoes and put on the stove 
with a tablespoon of Knox's gelatine. Remove and 
season with salt and pepper. Strain. Fill the eggs 
with the yolks and other ingredients and set each 
egg lengthwise in a small mold. Fill the mold to the 
top with the tomato jelly and let it stand until set. 
Remove mold and serve on lettuce leaves. 



All the News i? JHE,. E^VENING POST. 

All iL T"' 1 he Leading livening IN ewspaper 

All the I ime 30 Cents a month by carrier 



? — ' 1^ 



SHREVE AfD COMPANY 



A department of California stones 
and Oriental precious and semi- 
precious stones is a prominent 
feature of our stock. 



Our factory, fully equipped, gives 
our patrons unusual opportunities 
for the execution of special orders 
for gold and diamond jewelry and 
silverware from exclusive and 
original designs prepared by our 
artists. 

Shreve Building 

POST STREET and GRANT A VENUE 
San Francisco 



& h 



MEATS 

AND MEAT SAUCES 



"Some hae meat and canna eat, 
And some would eat that want it; 

But we hae meat, and we can eat, 
Sac l^t the Lord be thankit." 

— Burns. 



Pot Roast 

Put a couple of spoons of olive oil and the same 
amount of butter in a pot. When hot, plunge the 
meat in; add parsley, carrot, and onion cut small; 
salt and pepper to taste. Cover tightly and let cook 
slowly about two hours. Watch carefully. It will 
probably not need any' water. When the meat is 
cooked tender, thicken the gravy with a little browned 
flour. The second cut of the cross rib of beef is the 
best for pot roast. 

Wiener Braten. 

Have the bone taken out of a thick piece of 
round steak or shoulder, and pound the meat well; 
then lay it in vinegar twenty-four hours. Heat some 
drippings in kettle that has a close-fitting cover and 
put the meat in, seasoning it with salt, pepper, and 
ginger. After turning the meat in the hot fat, add 
an onion and two or three tomatoes. Pour soup 
stock over all and a dash of white wine. Cover 
closely and stew slowly for three or four hours, turn- 

Gloves Cleaned, all lengths, 6c a Pair 
Monthly contracts for , the care of gentlemen's 
clottiine:. We have just installed the most modem 
plant in the west for Dry Cleaning Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our wagons will call. 1955 CbesliatSt. 



MuWo-m/a. 




60 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

ing the meat occasionally, but do not pierce with the 
fork, as this would allow the juice to escape. Do not 
add water. Serve with potato pancakes. 

Beefsteak Rolled. 

Spread a round steak with a layer of dressing, 
such as is used for turkeys. Begin at one end of the 
steak and roll it carefully; tie the roll to keep in 
shape. Bake in the oven, basting very often. Make 
a gravy of the drippings and pour round the meat 
when ready to serve. 

Roast Beef Chauffe. 

Cut cold roast beef into slices half an inch thick ; 
put a tablespoon of butter in pan, and when melted 
add three tablespoons of currant jelly, a dash • of 
cayenne, a little salt, and a glass of sherry or madeira ; 
add the beef and serve hot. 



Yorkshire Pudding. 

Three cups of flour, one and three-fourths cups 
of milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, three eggs, 
one teaspoon of salt. Beat all the above to a smooth, 
light batter. This should be baked under the roast. 

Beefsteak Pie and Potato Crust. 

Sift together two cups flour, one-half teaspoon 
salt, two level teaspoons baking powder, then cut in 
one-half cup of shortening and one cup of cold 
mashed potatoes. Take enough water or milk to 
make a dough, put it on a floured board, and roll 
gently. Line a deep pie dish with part of the crust, 

CRYSTAL MARKET TeVtI 

Pkone W«t 852 836 DEVISADERO ST., Nr. McAllister S. F. 



MEATS 61 

and fill with one pound of round or sirloin steak cut 
into dice, and two sliced potatoes, salt, pepper, one 
sliced onion, chopped parsley, and a little soup stock. 
Cover with part of the pie crust and bake in a 
moderate oven thirty minutes. 

Corned Beef. 

Bone the brisket and then soak in water fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Rub brown sugar over the meat, 
season with pepper and salt, and then put in a deep 
dish. Cover with salt and press for twelve hours. 
• Dissolve a piece of saltpetre the size of a bean in a 
quart of boiling water, and when cold pour over the 
meat. Turn meat daily for five days. Put on to 
cook in boiling water. 

Baked Steak. 

Season with salt and little pepper a fine, thick 
cut porterhouse steak. Put it in a baking pan and put 
on it one onion, sliced and browned; one lemon and 
one green onion, sliced; one-half bottle catsup; later 
add one tablespoon hot water. Bake in hot oven 
twenty minutes. Sprinkle chopped parsley on top 
before serving. 

Mock Chicken Steak. 

Cut a thick round steak into pieces of convenient 
size for serving. Salt and pepper them on both sides, 
roll in flour, and fry in hot oil or beef fac to a rich 
brown. (I prefer the oil.) Then cover the meat with 
boiling water and simmer for two hours (longer does 
not hurt). Cover closely while cooking to keep in 



Incorporated 136 Geary St. San Francisco 



62 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

i [ 

the flavor and steam. Thicken gravy if necessary. 
When properly cooked, this has the flavor and tender- 
ness of chicken. 

Smothered Tongue. 

Scald tongue, and then skin. Season well with 
salt and pepper and slice an onion over it. Let it 
stand overnight. Put some drippings in a covered 
iron pot, and then the tongue, with whatever juice 
the seasoning drew. Cover closely and let it cook 
slowly until tender — about three hours. 

Boiled Tongue. 

Wash tongue thoroughly; rub with salt. Put on 
to boil ten minutes, then take off and skin. Put it 
on again with clear water, six whole peppers, one 
kernel of garlic, one large onion, one-half head of 
celery, three whole allspice. Boil until tender, then 
make a sauce of three cups of the water, one-half 
cup of vinegar, juice of a lemon, and six gingersnaps. 
Arrange slices of lemon around the tongue. 

Pickled Beef Tongue. 

Select a large, fresh beef tongue. Soak in cold 
water one-half hour. Crush a piece of saltpetre size 
of walnut, one teacup salt, one teaspoon pepper, three 
small cloves of garlic cut fine; mix seasoning. Drain 
water off tongue. With a pointed knife prick tongue ; 
rub in seasoning. Put tongue in crock; add the bal- 
ance of salt, etc. ; cover with plate and weight. Al- 
low to stand from four to five days. Without wash- 
ing off the seasoning, boil in fresh water until tender. 

2847 CALIFORNIA STREET 

Phone WEST 891 

Purveyors of Fine Meats 



W. F. ROBERTS 



MEATS 63 



While hot, peel off skin. Bay leaves and whole pep- 
pers may be added to seasoning. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb. 

Boil gently a leg of lamb in barely enough water 
to cover, salt, a scant tablespoon each of whole cloves 
and pepper corns, and a stick or two of cinnamon. 
When well cooked, make a dressing of one egg, 
sifted cracker crumbs, and a small piece of butter; 
spre.ad over the meat and brown in the oven. Serve 
w'itK caper sauce or a brown sauce. 

Lamb Stew. 

Put lamb, cut into pieces, in the saucepan ; cover 
with water, and, when it boils, skim off the scum. 
Add carrots, turnips, onion, potatoes, salt, and pep- 
per, and boil for one hour. Thicken gravy with a 
tablespoon flour moistened with cold water. Boil up 
a few moments and serve, sprinkling chopped parsley 
over all. 

Mock Terrapin Stew. 

Two or three pounds uncooked veal (according 
to the quantity desired), cut for stewing. Put a lump 
of butter and a tablespoon of olive oil in a stew 
pan with half an onion cut small; when the onion is 
cooked soft, add the veal, powdered with flour, and 
braise it slowly. When braised a light brown, add 
enough boiling water to cover the meat, also salt and 
pepper to taste and gne-fourth teaspoon of ground 
ginger. Let it cook slowly for an hour, to thicken 
the stew. Take two hard-boiled eggs, mash the 



OLjLMiIA DElbK un^rpasTed forTuality, U 

for sale at all good srocera 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



64 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

yolks, and cream them with a half teaspoon of butter, 
one tablespoon of flour, juice of half a lemon, a wine 
glass of sherry or port wine. If this paste is too 
thick, moisten with a little of the gravy of the stew 
and add the mixture to the stew in pan, which must 
be boiling. Stir until smooth. Take the whites of 
the hard-boiled eggs, cut small, and also add to the 
stew. 

Veal Souffle. 

Two cups cold cooked veal cut into small pieces.^ 
Season well and mix in yolks of two eggs. Then melt 
one tablespoon butter; blend one tablespoon flour; 
add Worcestershire sauce, one-half cup cream, and 
one cup milk. Mix this with the meat. Lastly add 
beaten whites of the two eggs. Bake in hot oven 
twenty minutes and serve at once. 

Mock Hamburger Loaf. 

Two cups bread crumbs, one cup chopped Huts, 
one-third cup melted butter, one-half cup hot water 
or stock, one and one-half teaspoons salt, one-fourth 
teaspoon pepper, one-half teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce, few drops onion juice, one egg. Make into 
loaf shape and bake one hour in moderate oven, 
covering the first half hour. Baste a few times with 
melted butter and serve with tomato sauce or brown 
sauce with chopped nuts. 

Italian Hash. 

Chop one pint cold roast beef or lamb with one 
calf brain, previously cooked. Add two tablespoons 

Percy J. Meyer Herbert S. Meyer 

HARDWOOD INTERIOR CO. 

INLAID FLOORS ESSsSfr 



M-EATS 65 



melted butter, one tablespoon anchovy sauce, the 
yolks of four eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Form 
into balls, roll in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Fried Sausage. 

Prick the sausage with a fork, put in a pan, pour 
on boiling water, and cook for two minutes. Remove 
the sausage and dry it. Have ready a pan with hot 
fat. Put in the sausage and fry for ten minutes. 

Whole Calf's Liver. 

Cut in slices half way through the liver; put in 
parsley, green onion and dry onion, all well minced, 
pepper and salt. Heat thoroughly a Dutch oven 
(covered iron pot), and then put in a large spoon of 
butter and the liver. Add a little water, cover and 
put into oven and bake one-half to three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Liver Stewed in Madeira Wine. 

Take one pound calf's liver, cut in pieces, clean 
well with a cloth, then fry in a pan with two table- 
spoons of butter on a brisk fire for iive minutes. 
Season with a pinch of salt and a little pepper. Add 
half a glass of Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, 
then pour over about half a pint of mushroom sauce ; 
cook again for three minutes, then add one tablespoon 
butter and the juice of half a lemon, tossing well 
without letting it boil. Pour the whole on a hot 
serving dish and serve with some heart-shaped pieces 
of fried bread. 



WALTER BAKER'S 



COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 
Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



66 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Spanish Liver. 

Boil in salt water one-half pound calf's liver. 
Drain and cut into small cubes. Chop one onion, one 
tablespoon parsley, some mint; add two cloves, a 
little cinnamon, a little tabasco sauce, one tablespoon 
olive oil, and one cup of soup stock. Add one cup of 
bread crumbs which have been soaked in hot water 
and then drained. Mix all with the liver and bring 
to a boil. Serve with Spanish rice. 

Tripe, Family Style. 

Scald and scrape two pounds tripe and cut into 
inch squares. Take big kitchen spoon of drippings 
and put in four large onions quartered and three 
small cloves of garlic cut up very fine. Let steam, 
but not brown. When onions begin to cook, put in 
tripe and steam half an hour. Then cover tripe with 
water and let cook slowly three hours.^ Boil a few 
potatoes and cut in dice shapes and add to it. Half 
an hour before serving, add the following, after 
taking off as much fat from the tripe as possible: 
Three big spoons flour thinned with little water; add 
Worcestershire sauce, catsup, paprika, ginger, and 
spoon of salt. It should all be quite thick, like paste, 
when cooked. 

Tripe a la Creole. 

Boil tripe with onion, parsley, celery, and season- 
ing; cut in small pieces, then boil up in the following 
sauce: Take one spoon fat, brown it with two table- 
spoons ' flour ; then add one can boiled and strained 
tomatoes, one can mushrooms, salt and pepper to 
taste. Serve in ramekins. 

L^ ^ T A/I O M ^ <» ^- '^- *^ '^^ ^'^' Binding 
. O. O 1 IVl \.>^ IN O I Marien's Featherbone 

658 Mission Street DeLong's Hooks and Eyes 



MEATS 67 

Tripe a la Caen. 

Cut up four calf's feet, two pounds tripe. Cut 
fine one bunch French carrots, six green onions, one 
leek, some parsley. Add one can tomatoes, salt and 
pepper to taste, one tumbler sherry or white wine, 
and water to cover. Put all in a Dutch oven, cover, 
and put into the range oven and let cook for several 
hours. Stir occasionally to prevent burning. 

Dumplings for Stew. 

Mix two heaping teaspoons of baking powder 
with one quart flour, one egg, a pint of cold water 
or milk, and a little salt. 

Stir all lightly together and drop the batter from 
the spoon into the stew while the water continues 
to boil. Cover closely and do not uncover for 
twenty minutes, boiling constantly, but not too hard. 
Thicken the gravy with little flour blended with cold 
water. 

Vinaigrette Sauce. 

Mix well one-third cup olive oil, one tablespoon 
chopped pickles, one tablespoon chopped pepper, one 
tablespoon parsley, one-half teaspoon paprika, one 
teaspoon salt, one-fourth cup vinegar, few grains of 
cayenne pepper. 

Sauce Piquante. 

To one pint of drawn butter ad(J one tablespoon 
each of vinegar and lemon juice and tiVo tablespoons 
each of chopped capers, pickles, and olives, one-half 
teaspoon onion juice, a few grains cayenne pepper. 



SOMMER & KAUfMANN 

Two Storet--I19-125Grant Ave. ar. Geary, 836-840 Market St., nr. Stockton 



Good Shoei Only 



68 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Horseradish Sauce. 

Grate a good-sized stick of horseradish, take 
some soup stock and a spoon of fat, salt and pepper 
to taste, a little grated stale bread, a few pounded 
almonds. Let all boil up and then put in the meat. 
A very nice way to prepare soup meat. 

Mignonette Sauce. 

Half a dozen shallots (onions), -chopped parsley, 
six white peppers fresh ground, celery salt to taste, 
one teaspoon Worce'stershire sauce, one-half teaspoon 
anchovy sauce, four drops of tabasco sauce, two- 
thirds tarragon vinegar, one-third ordinary vinegar. 
Keep in a cool place and shake well before using. 

Tomato Sauce for Cutlets and Croquettes. 

Cook one-half can tomatoes ten minutes, rub 
through a sieve, add one-eighth teaspoon soda, then 
add three tablespoons butter, two and one-half table- 
spoons flour that have been cooked together. Sea- 
son with one-fourth teaspoon salt and little pepper 
and chopped parsley. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

Melt two tablespoons butter, then smooth in two 
tablespoons flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half 
saltspoon pepper. Heat one-half pint of either veal 
or chicken broth, and one-half pint of milk. Add it, 
one-third at a time, to the smoothed butter, stirring 
all the time, till thick enough. 

LOUIS MOTRONI fTTMow 

All Orders promptly Ezeoited OQCQ 17i11<mA«*A Qf Original and artittic desigos 
Phone WEST 1284 ^OOO rililHOre Ol. Cnt Flowers FreihDaUy 



CHICKEN AND GAME 



Chicken Fricassee. 

Cut the chicken in pieces. Cover with water and 
season with salt, pepper, onion, and a little garlic. 
Let boil until tender. Remove the chicken to a plat- 
ter and take oflf fat from gravy. Take a large spoon 
of soup fat and when hot stir in a spoon of flour. 
Then stir in the chicken gravy, also a handful of 
parsley chopped very fine. Put chicken back into pot 
and let it stand till needed. Duck is nice prepared 
this way. 

Steamed Spring Chicken. 

Put a large slice of butter in pan, arrange chicken 
in halves, place at back of range to brown slowly. 
Cut in a little garlic, onion, celery, parsley, then 
sprinkle with flour and cover closely. Into the gravy 
stir a little beef extract. 

Baltimore Chicken. 

Cut chicken in pieces for serving, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, dip in egg and cracker crumbs. Ar- 
range in baking pan and cook in hot oven from 
twenty to thirty minutes, basting with melted butter. 
Arrange on hot platter and pour sauce over all. The 
sauce may be made by pouring hot water into the 
baking pan after removing chicken, stirring well and 
then straining. 



'^^mSM: 



Gloves Cleaned, all len^hs, 5c a Pair 
Monthly contracts for the care of gentlemen's 
clothing. We have just installed the most modern 
plant in the west for Dry Cleaning Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. ^ 
Phone West 926. Our wagons will call. 1955 Cbeslnul St. 



70 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Chicken Casserole. 

Brown a roasting chicken whole in the oven for 
about one-half hour. Then put it into a casserole, 
with some butter or hot drippings, celery, young 
carrots, two onions, a bell pepper, and one cup soup 
stock. Cover and cook for about one hour. Serve 
on platter with some of the carrots that have been 
cut into fancy shapes around the chicken, and po- 
tatoes that have been pared into small balls and 
steamed. Over all pour the gravy. 

Chicken Country a la Solari. 

, Cut a chicken into eight pieces. Drop the pieces 
'^of chicken into some cold milk, season with salt, 
then dry them in flour and 4ay them in a frying pan 
with good butter; let them cook slowly in the oven, 
turning them occasionally, so that they will be nice 
and brown. When brown, remove them, and to the 
gravy add a tumbler of pure cream and some paprika ; 
mix well and let it cook for about ten minutes, until 
it gets rather thick, then strain and pour over the 
chicken and serve. 

Chicken With Spaghetti 

Prepare and truss a young chicken, as if for 
roasting. Put it in a casserole, and pour over it two 
tablespoons olive oil, a cup of white wine, a cup of 
bouillon, salt and cayenne to taste, one spoon of dried 
mushrooms soaked in one cup of water and chopped 
fine, and one-half can of mushrooms. Cover tightly 
and simmer in the oven for about an hour, turning 
the chicken occasionally; add a dozen olives and a 

W. F. ROBERTS ^'^'■^T^ " 

Poultry and Game in Season 



CHICKEN AND GAME 71 

tablespoon butter, smoothed with one tablespoon 
flour, and bring to a boil. Remove the chicken and 
add about a pint of boiled spaghetti to the sauce. 
Place the chicken on a platter, surround with the 
spaghetti, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese. 

Chicken a la Italienne. 

Cut the remains of cold chicken (or turkey) into 
pieces about an inch long and marinate them in' a 
bowl containing one tablespoon olive oil, one teaspoon 
tarragon vinegar or lemon juice, a few drops of onion 
juice, salt and pepper. At the end of half an hour 
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, dip them in 
fritter batter, and fry in boiling fat. Drain on a 
brown paper, and serve with or without tomato or 
brown sauce. 

In some parts of Italy this dish is made of sev- 
eral kinds of cold meats, poultry, game, brains, etc. 
(the greater the variety the better), served on the 
same platter, and in Spain all kinds of cold vege- 
tables are fried in batter and served together. 

Chicken Piquante. 

Cut up a chicken in small pieces. Cover with 
water, and stew until nearly tender; then add four 
medium-sized potatoes, cut in halves, and boil slowly. 
Half an hour before serving, fry, two sliced onions 
brown in two tablespoons hot fat; add the pulp of 
six large, sweet red peppers (soaked overnight and 
pressed through a colander) ; cook for two minutes, 
then add two tablespoons olive oil, and when very 

""■ SPECIAU ART EXHIBITIONS 

During Winter and Spring in Our New Gallery 
Fine Selection of Mirrors, Framed and Unframed Engrravingrs and Photo- 
erapha Suitable for Gifts. Framing and Gilding Objects of Art at 
HELQESEN'8, 2239 FILLMORE ST., near Clay 



72 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

hot add one cup of cheese, cut in small pieces. Stir 
until the cheese is melted, then pour over the chicken 
and potatoes and bring all to a boil, stirring to keep 
from burning. Serve very hot. 

Chicken a la Bordeaux. 

Take young squab chickens, stuff them with 
celery, onions, and seasoning. Into the pan put the 
chickens, a piece of sausage, a few small onions, a 
tablespoon butter for each chicken, salt, pepper, some 
dried herbs, and a cup of hot water or stock. Cover 
tightly and let stew until tender. When tender, 
remove sausage and gravy and put chickens in oven 
to brown with some of the gravy. Pour over the rest 
when done. 

Chicken Terrapin. 

Boil a large, tender chicken until the meat will 
slip off the bone; let it get cold, then cut it into 
dice, half-inch size. Take the yolks of two eggs; 
after beating them light, set aside. Heat one pint of 
rich milk — part cream is best; when it comes to a 
boil, add one tablespdon of flour that has been 
rubbed smooth with two tablespoons of butter and 
stir until very smooth. Take from the fire, add the 
yolks, salt and paprika to taste. Put the mixture 
back on the stove and stir in the chicken dice. Let it 
heat, but not come to a boil. A tablespoon of sherry 
improves it, but it is very good without. 

Salmi of Quail. 

Split two plump quail down the back. Heat two 
heaping tablespoons of butter in the spider, put in the 

Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



CHICKEN AND GAME 73 

birds and brown on one side, turn and brown on the 
other ; then add one gill of highly seasoned broth, one 
gill of port or claret, one tablespoon mushroom 
catsup, salt and pepper to taste, cover and simmer 
until tender. 

Pigeon a la Creole. 

Clean and wipe dry three pigeons and cut each 
into four pieces. Marinate them in half a cup of olive 
oil for fifteen minutes. Drain off the oil into a frying 
pan. Chop one onion, one clove of garlic (if liked), 
a green pepper (seeds removed), and a tablespoon 
parsley. Fry in the oil until transparent, and then 
add the pigeons and sear them all over. Put all of 
this in a casserole with a can of tomatoes, salt, 
paprika, and cayenne to taste, half a cup of sliced 
olives and a pint of good stock. Cover tightly and 
simmer in the oven an hour and a half. Five minutes 
before serving moisten a tablespoon of browned flour 
with a little of the gravy, stir into the stew, and when 
it thickens sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garnish 
with croutons, and serve in the same dishes. 

Steamed Pigeons. 

Brown the pigeons in fat and butter in the 
kettle, then cut up onion, celery, parsley, little garlic 
with them. Steam one hour, and if they do not 
draw enough gravy, add little bouillon. 

Salmi of Duck. 

Cut duck (wild) into small pieces and brown in 
butter or chicken fat. To a piece of butter browned 



ULlMllA DLiuK «n»*rpa.Ted forquality.T* 

for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



74 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

with flour add soup stock, one bay leaf, one clove, 
cayenne pepper, and salt, and one cup of claret. 
Then add the pieces of fried duck. Cook slowly. 
Add thin slices of peeled lemon and chopped parsley 
before serving. 

Spanish Pie. 

Take one pint of cold chicken, duck, or any game. 
Cut it into flakes and place it in a pudding dish which 
has been lined with a thin crust. On the layer of 
meat place a layer of sweet red peppers (seeds re- 
moved), cut in slices; next, a layer of thinly sliced 
sausage, and so on until the dish is full. Over this 
pour a glass of claret into which have been rubbed 
two tablespoons of flour. Cover with a thin crust of 
pastry, and bake. 

Bread Dressing. 

Soak <half a loaf milk bread and four soda 
crackers. /Let them drain a couple of hours and then 
press^ out any water remaining. Heat a large spoon 
of fat or butter in a frying pan, grate in a little onion, 
and then add the soaked bread and cracker and let it 
dry, but stir often, that it does not burn. Then put 
it in a bowl, season with salt, pepper, chopped 
parsley, the liver, chopped fine, and two eggs. 

Mushroom Dressing for Fowl. 

Melt two tablespoons butter. Add two table- 
spoons flour, one teaspoon finely chopped onion, one- 
half cup chopped mushrooms, one teaspoon salt, and 
cream to make proper consistency. 



FRECKLES 

CAN BE 

REMOVED 



Baer'* Knrtz Freckle Salve poii- 
tively removec freckles, tan and 
fonborn. Keeps the ikin smootb 
and white. Mannfactnrcd by 
Baer Drug Co. 722 Market St.,S.F. 



For Sale by all 
Drugsrists 

Price 50 Cents 



VEGETABLES 

"Earth's simple fruits; we all enjoy them." 

Spinach or dandelion, as greens, for kidney 
trouble. 

Asparagus purifies the blood. 

Celery for the nerves. It is also good for rheu- 
matism and neuralgia. 

Tomatoes act upon the liver. 

Beets and turnips are most excellent appetizers. 

Beans are very nutritious. 

Lettuce and cucumbers are cooling to the system. 

Onions, garlic, leeks, etc., stimulate the circula- 
tion, increase the flow of saliva, and aid digestion. 

Potato Filet. 

Pare the potatoes and cut them lengthwise about 
one-quarter of an inch square. Let them lie in cold 
water until ready for use, then drop them in boiling 
fat. When nearly done, skim them out and let 
drain. Boil the fat up again and drop the potatoes 
in once more and let them fry until done. Dropping 
them in the hot fat the second time causes them to 
puff up. 

Potatoes a la Astor. 

Clean and pare ten nice potatoes, cut them in 
half-inch square pieces, put them in a frying pan 
vvith three tablespoons of butter, season with salt and 



'M'cMa.ccC^ijj- 



Gloves Cleaned, all lenerths, Sc a Fair 
Monthly contracts for the care of gentlemen's 
clotbing. We have just installed the most modern 
plant In the west for Dry CkaninB Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our waffons will call. 1955 ChesliwlSI. 



76 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

pepper to suit the taste. Allow them to fry until a 
nice golden brown. (It generally takes from fifteen 
to eighteen minutes.) Drain off the butter, place 
potatoes in serving dish, sprinkle over a little parsley, 
and serve hot. 

Potato Puff. 

Take two cups cold mashed potatoes and stir 
into them one tablespoon of melted butter, beating 
to a white cream before adding anything else. Then 
put with this two eggs beaten extremely light, one 
cup cream, and salt to taste. Beat all well and pour 
into a deep dish, and bake in a quick oven until it is 
nice and brown. If properly mixed, it will come out 
of the oven light, puffy, and delectable. 

Potato Dumplings. 

Chop a small onion fine and fry it in two table- 
spoons fat. Cut two slices of bread in strips abovit 
one-fourth inch thick and one inch long, and brown 
with onions. Cream two cups mashed potatoes with 
three eggs; add onions, fat, and bread, salt, and 
two-thirds cup flour. Flour your hands well and 
make into dumplings. Put them into boiling water, 
to which add one tablespoon salt. Boil about twenty- 
five minutes. Serve at once with browned bread 
crumbs and butter or chopped onion, brown^ed. 

Potato Pancakes. 

A few raw grated potatoes, two eggs, salt to 
taste, a little onion juice, a little ginger, one table- 
spoon flour. Drop by spoon on a hot, buttered 
spider. 

Phone West 1000 We'll do the Rett 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

2036-2054 O'FARRELL ST. 



COAL 



VEGETABLES 71 

Potato Pudding. 

Peel and grate fivq or six large potatoes and one 
onion. Soak some bread and a couple of crackers. 
Press out water and add to potatoes and onions; 
salt to taste. Add two tablespoons boiling fat and 
one beaten ^gg. Have plenty fat in pan; put in the 
pudding. Bake in hot oven one hour. 

Boiled Rice. 

The rice should be picked over, not washed. 
Throw it into plenty of quickly boiling water, and let 
it boil up and continue to boil quickly for one min- 
ute; then pour in a little cold water to check it. It 
should now boil slowly, but continuously, for fifteen 
to twenty minutes. Drain it and put into a saucepan 
that has been buttered. Cover it with a clean cloth 
and allow it to steam on the stove, where it is not too 
hot, or in a slow oven. Stir it lightly with a fork 
and let it remain for a quarter of an hour. (Deli- 
cious.) 

Spanish Rice. 

Fry one small chopped onion in two ounces 
butter ; add three tablespoons ■■ tomato catsup, one 
tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, one clove of garlic, 
paprika, pinch of cayenne, one-half cup soup stock, 
two cups cooked rice, two tablespoons Parmesan 
cheese. Canned tomatoes may be added if desired. 

Baked Rice. 

Peel and slice a couple of onions and throw them 
into cold water; let them boil up quickly, then drain 



Ring Up 



Douglas 4460 if the Carrier 
fails to serve THE EVENING 
POST regularly : : : 



78 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

and mince them. Put the rice into a double boiler, 
boil one pint milk and pour it over the rice, and add 
the minced onion. Let them stew till the rice has 
absorbed the milk, which will be about two hours. 
Remove the pan from the fire and stir in a heaped 
tablespoon chopped parsley and the beaten whites of 
two eggs. Season all to taste. Butter a baking dish 
and put in the rice. Cover with the bread crumbs 
and break up pieces of butter and place on top. 
Brown quickly in a hot oven. 

Vegetable Stew. 

Chop together one small onion, one green pepper, 
three skinned tomatoes; add one dozen small squash 
cut into pieces, the corn from two ears, one-half 
pound of string beans, cut into small pieces. To this 
add four tablespoons olive oil, and cook till vegetables 
are tender. 

Green Peas. 

Put peas on with water to barely cover, piece of 
butter, one onion, and few sprigs of parsley. When 
onion is tender, remove it and parsley; thicken the 
peas with little flour smoothed with water, salt and 
pepper to taste, and chopped parsley. 

Stuffed Squash. 

Select six good-sized summer squash. Parboil 
them, scoop out the center when done, and fill with 
a cream sauce to which has been added some Worces- 
tershire sauce, one cup of cheese, two ounces of 
cracker crumbs, and one egg. Stir all over the fire 

E^^ ]]-\f ^Q Fine Equipagesand Automobiles 

M\.fmjr O 1623-1631 Pine Street 

Phones Franklin 216 

Franklin 217 San Francisco, C^ 



; VEGETABLES 79 

till melted, then into each squash put some of this 
paste and bake in a quick oven. If any sauce is left, 
add a little cream to it, and pour it over the squash 
when serving. 

Baked Tomato and Egg Plant. 

Take a deep earthenware, dish, pour into it a cup 
of cream; cut several slices of egg plant very thin, 
salt well, and line the dish with them ; slice two large 
tomatoes, place a layer of these on the egg plant, 
next a layer of spaghetti (cooked) ; sprinkle with 
grated cheese, pieces of butter, salt, and pepper; 
cover this with layer of tomatoes; salt well and 
sprinkle with chopped green pepper, and a top layer 
of egg plant, which also salt and pepper well. Cook 
gently an hour and a half in slow, hot oven. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Drain oflF part of the juice from a quart of 
tomatoes and season with pepper, salt, and onion 
juice. Cover the bottom of a baking disli with rolled 
crackers, dot over with dabs of butter, pepper, and 
salt, then another layer of tomatoes, then of crumbs, 
and so on until a layer of crumbs covers the top. 
Bake till brown and serve hot. , 

Fried Cucumbers. 

Daintily prepared fried cucumbers are immeas- 
urably superior to fried tgg plant and are especially 
nice with boiled chicken. 

Peel and slice the cucumbers lengthwise in about 
the same thickness observed with egg plant. Lay 

Qf-friffrkn ^ Q Young Men's, Boys' and Children's 

Incorporated 13Q Geary St. San Francisco 



80 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

these slices in salt and water for about an hour, then 
dip in beaten egg and cracker dust, and French fry 
in boiling fat, taking care to carefully drain in a col- 
ander before serving. 

Fried Egg Plant. 

■ Peel and slice thin, sprinkle with salt, let stand 
one-half hour; wipe slices dry, dip into beaten yolk, 
then roll in cracker crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 
Season while cooking. 

Fried Egg Plant 

Peel an egg plant. Slice in qudrter-inch pieces. 
Roll in flour, then mix in a mixture of egg, using a 
spoon of rich cream to one egg. The addition of the 
cream makes the "covering less crusty and tenderer. 
Then roll in sifted bread crumbs or, cracker crumbs. 
Salt and pepper before rolling in flour. Fry in swim- 
ming fat for five minutes. Serve on a napkin with a 
sprinkling of parsley. 

Onion Souffle. 

Prepare a white sauce of a piiit of milk, one 
ounce of butter, and half an ounce of flour. Pour 
this over half a cup of bread crumbs mixed ' with a 
cup of finely chopped boiled onions and the yolks 
of three eggs. Season with salt and pepper, stir well, 
then whip in the beaten whites of three eggs. Bake 
in a slow oven until well risen and nicely browned. 
Serve hot. 



SOMMER & KAUFMANN 

Two Storei--119-125Graiit Ave. ar. Geary, 836-840 Market St., nr. Stockton 



Good Shoes Only 



VEGETABLES 81 



Cabbage Cooked Scharfe. 

Clean and wash cabbage, cut in small pieces, and 
boil until tender. Drain and rinse in cold water, 
chop fine; one tablespoon fat in spider, one-fourth 
onion cut fine, and tablespoon flour; brown all to- 
gether, add one-half pint stock, and add cabbage, and 
cook ten minutes longer. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Kohlrabi can be cooked the same as above, only 
they should be parboiled first. 

Red Cabbage With Chestnuts and Raisins. 

Clean cabbage and cut off outside leaves; cut 
on cabbage cutter. Take butter the size of an egg, 
put in kettle and let brown ; add cabbage, let simmer 
for about ten minutes, stir and let simmer about ten 
minutes more. Add about one-half pint soup stock, 
one-fourth cup vinegar, and tablespoon sugar, salt and 
pepper to taste. Add a quarter of a cup of raisins 
and blanched chestnuts and cook until tender, adding 
to cabbage just before serving. Take one tablespoon 
of flour and smooth with cold water; let cook a few 
minutes, and serve. 

String Beans. 

Heat some drippings in saucepan, into which 
cut up a little onion and parsley. Stew about ten 
minutes and add the beans, broken into one-inch 
lengths. Add a little soup stock and cook beans till 
tender. Sift in a tablespoon of flour and season with 
salt and pepper. Add meat gravy, soup stock, or 
milk, if more sauce is desired. A few potatoes cut 
into dice may be added. 



Borden's Pioneer Milk 



RICHEST 
PUREST 
BEST 



82 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Sweet and Sour Beans. 

Put two tablespoons butter or drippings into a 
pan; add two tablespoons flour and brown slightly. 
Add two tablespoons brown sugar, pinch of salt, 
little cinnamon, vinegar to taste (one-half cup). 
Add the beans, that have been parboiled, and let them 
simmer gently. The juice from pickled or spiced 
fruits is delicious in preparing sweet and sour 
sauces. 

Corn. 

After cleaning the corn, put it into boiling water, 
to which add sugar, about one cup to a dozen or 
more ears of corn. Do not use salt, or the corn will 
become tough and yellow. Let it stand in boiling 
water twenty minutes, but do not let it boil. 



Spanish Beans. 

Soak one pint of beans overnight. Boil until 
skin cracks, and let about one cup of water remain 
on the beans. Chop fine one onion and two cloves 
of garlic, and fry a light brown in tablespoon olive 
oil; then add one-half can tomatoes, one teaspoon 
chili powder dissolved in a little cold water, salt to 
taste, half a dozen olives chopped. A piece of 
smoked beef or tongue improves the taste. 

Mexican Beans. 

Soak one quart small pink beans overnight. In 
the morning change water, slice large onion, and cook 
with beans four hours. In another saucepan cook 

inUM P II APT DRY AND FANCY GOODS 

J "nil r. n/vivi notions, etc 

Orders Delivered Immediately 

CALIFORNIA and OEVISADERO Tel. West 5444 



VEGETABLES 83 

one quart tomatoes and one sliced onion. .When done, 
squeeze through press. When beans have cooked 
about four hours, add tomato pulp, also one table- 
spoon Grandma's Spanish pepper, two tablespoons 
syrup or sugar, one tablespoon butter, and salt 
enough to season. Cook another hour. Just before 
serving, thicken with one tablespoon flour mixed 
with water and one tablespoon Grandma's Spanish 
pepper. 

Chestnuts and Prunes. 

Peel one pint of chestnuts and skin, then boil 
untif tender. Boil one pint of prunes till tender. Mix 
chestnuts and prunes together, leaving whatever of 
sauce there is on the prunes. Season with sugar, 
cinnamon, and lemon juice, and cook all together. 



Telephone Douglas 4744 d. W, WOLF, Pres. 

ZOBEL'S MILLINERY and FURS 

23 Grant Avenue San Francisco 



E. G. WARD. Prop. Phone FRANKLIN | J j g ' 

CABLE OYSTER DEPOT 

Eastern' and California 

CRABS OYSTERS SHRIMPS 

S. E. Comer 
Calilomia and Polk Sts. 

San Francisco, Cal. ICE FOR SALE 



Footwear of the Rosenthal Standard pleases the 
most fastidious. 

ROSENTHAL'S, Inc. 

The Best Shoe Stores 
151-163 POST ST. 1518-1530 FILLMORE ST. 

Oakland Store, 469-471 Twelftt St. 



TELEPHONE WEST 30B3 

F. S. KINO 

LADIES' TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER 
2119 Fillmore St. exi^erience of 

BET. CALIFORNIA AND SACRAMENTO VIENNA, PARIS AND LONDON 

D. SAMUELS 

THE LACE HOUSE 

ha* for almost Sixty Years Specialized on 

HOUSEKEEPING GOODS 

BED and TABLE LINEN, CURTAINS, 
BLANKETS, COMFORTERS, ETC. 

PRICES AND QUALITIES GUARANTEED 

N. W. Cor. of Stockton & O'Farrell Sts. 



SALADS 

AND SALAD DRESSING 

"Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce the appetite." 

Salad 

Take five heads of letters. If you can't get the 
heads, use the tails. Put them in water and let them 
come to a boil. If they won't come, take them by the 
ears and lead them. For dressing, use low neck and 
short sleeves. — Benjamin Franklin. ' 

A Dainty Salad Dish. 

Take large and long cucumbers, cut them once 
through the middle, lengthwise, scrape out the inside, 
and you have a pretty individual green boat in which 
to serve the salad. They must be kept on ice until 
ready for use. This is attractive with shrimp salad, 
as the colors blend so nicely. 

Russian Salad. 

Cook separately one can string beans, one can 
peas, and some carrots sliced. Chop some celery and 
one cup nuts. Slice one cucumber and add all to 
cooked vegetables. Mix with mayonnaise dressing, 
to which add a few spoons whipped cream. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 



Gloves Cleaned, all lenerths, Sc a Pair 
Monthly contracts for the care of erentlemen'a 
clothing:. We have just installed the most modem 
plant in the west for Dry Gleaning: Ladies' Dainty 
Garments. Blankets, Curtains. Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our wagons will call. 1955 Chestnut SI. 




86 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Potato Salad. 

Slice six good-sized cold potatoes (boiled ones) as 
thin as possible. Chop two hard-boiled eggs. Put 
a layer of potatoes into salad bowl, season with salt, 
pepper, a dust of cayenne, and a little chopped onion. 
Sprinkle with the chopped egg, and repeat till you 
have the desired quantity. Moisten with dressing 
made of two eggs well beaten, two-thirds of a cup 
of vinegar and same of water, an even tablespoon 
of sugar, one of dry mustard made smooth, small 
piece of butter. Cook until it thickens. When cold, 
pour over the salad an hour before serving. Mix 
lightly through the potatoes. 

Chopped Cabbage Salad 

Chop up a head of white cabbage, salt and 
pepper; heat some vinegar in a spider, adding a tea- 
spoon of prepared mustard; beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with a tablespoon of sugar, and add the 
hot vinegar gradually to the beaten eggs; pour all 
over the cabbage, and serve when cold. 

Filled Beets. 

Scoop out boiled beets; chop the scooped-out 
pieces with olives and celery, and refill the beets. 
Serve, with mayonnaise sauce, on lettuce leaves. 

Clubhouse Salad. 

Four hard-boiled eggs, three handfuls macaroni, 
one cup celery. Boil macaroni in salt water until 
well cooked, drain, and cut into tiny pieces; take out 



nr VlUPf A III717D Brewed in Olympia. Wn., 
ULlLViriA DuIjIV unsurpa..ed for quality,;. 

for «ale at all good grocer* 
"ITS TBE WATER" --demand it. 



SALADS 87 



the yolks of the eggs and cut the whites into small 
pieces; cut the celery into small pieces; chop part 
of a red pepper, a small, sharp pickle, several olives, 
and a tiny bit of onion. Mix all together with a 
mayonnaise made of the yolks of the four eggs. In 
tomato season serve a portion on a couple of slices 
of tomatoes on lettuce for each person. 

Monterey Salad. 

Select fine lemons, wipe carefully, scoop out the 
pulp, remove the tough inner skin and seeds, and to 
the rest add one box of boneless sardines, finely 
chopped, a teaspoon French mustard, two hard-boiled 
, eggs, chopped, some tabasco sauce, and mayonnaise. 
Fill each cup with the mixture. Cut a small slice 
from the bottom of the lemon, so that it will stand 
firmly. Garnish with chopped egg and chopped pars- 
ley, and serve on lettuce leaves. 



Niagara Salad. 

Pick or grind one thick slice of cold, cooked 
salmon. Make a dressing of mayonnaise, to which 
add one table<4poon French mustard, one green onion 
chopped fine, one tablespoon small Mexican peppers, 
one tablespoon pimientos. Mix this dressing into the 
picked salmon. 

Game Salad. 

Cut cold wild ducks into thin slices and marinate 
in French dressing for several hours in a cold bowl. 
Shred a large head of celery, cut into long strips, 

Percy J. Meyer Herbert S. Mey, r 

MARDWOOD INTERIOR CO. jj , 

INLAID FLOORS Z?::^^ T± 



COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



cover with French dressing, place in the salad bowl, 
with the duck piled in the center. Garnish with 
chopped, hard-boiled eggs. 

, Herring Salad. 

Take six Milchner herrings, soak in milk over- 
night, skin, and cut up very fine, and rub the milch 
to a cream, then press through a sieve. Have some 
beets and celery root cooked, and cut into small 
cubes. Cut up some vinegar pickles, olives, and 
capers, and add to the chopped herring and milch. 
Scoop out apples, cut up some, and add to the salad. 
Mix all with either mayonnaise or French dressing. 
Put salad into the scooped-out apples. 

Banana Salad. 

On a crisp lettuce leaf lay a half or a whole 
banana, cut in halves. Spread over it the following 
boiled s^lad dressing: Two eggs, half a cup of milk, 
two tablespoons granulated sugar, half a teaspoon 
salt, a little mustard. Beat eggs and sugar together; 
add milk, salt, mustard, and sugar, and put into a 
double boiler. When thick, add one-half a cup of 
vinegar, and let cool. 

Celery and Fruit Salad. 

Cut up the outer green stalks of celery; to one 
cup use one pint of water and a heaping teaspoon 
of salt. Let simmer until soft, add one-fourth of a 
box of gelatine that has soaked half an hour in half 
a cup of cold water; run through a jelly bag and mold 



FRECKLES 

CAN BE 

REMOVED 



Baer*t Kurtz Freckle Salve posi- 
tiveljr removes freckles, tan anJ 
snnbnm. Keeps the skia smooth 
and white. MannfactBred by 
Baer Drof Co. 722 Market St.,S.F. 



For Sale by all 
Druggists 

Price 50 Cents 



SALADS 89 

in a ring mold. When hard, turn out on a bed of 
crisp lettuce leaves and fill the hollow center with a 
fruit mayonnaise of two oranges, two bananas, and 
two apples, peeled, cut small, and mixed with half a 
pint of mayonnaise and a cup of shredded lettuce. 
When unmolded, surround with lettuce hearts and 
an iced cream mayonnaise. 

Tripe Salad. 

Take some cold, cooked tripe, cut into thin strips, 
and cover with a salad dressing made of home-made 
mustard, salt, pepper, grated onion, oil, and vinegar. 

\ Pimiento Salad. 

Drain, dry, and cut into round slices one can of 
pimiento morrones. Smooth, in the water of the pim- 
ientos, yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, one clove of 
garlic, pinch each of salt and cayenne, and a good 
French dressing. Stir all and bring to a boil. When 
cool, pour over the sliced pimiento morrone, to whidh 
have been added two cups chopped celery and one 
cup small cheese balls made of any soft cheese, 
creamed with two tablespoons butter, one teaspoon 
each Worcestershire sauce and paprika, one saltspoon 
salt, one-half cup rolled cracker crumbs. 

Dressing for Lettuce. 

Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a paste, 
adding a teaspoon salad oil or melted butter, being 
careful to add only a few drops at a time. Add half 
a teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon prepared mustard. 

Go to FRED T. KNOLES, 2000 Fillmore Street, for Hard- 
ware, Cooking Utensils, Paints, Oils, Varnishes, 
Etc. Telephone West 1855 : : : 



90 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

very little pepper, two tablespoons white sugar. Stir 
very hard, then pour in gradually one-half teacup 
vinegar. 

Marie's Salad Dressing for Lettuce. 

Three-fourths cup olive oil, three-fourths cup 
sugar, well beaten together. Add one-eighth teaspoon 
pepper, one-half teaspoon salt, eight tablespoons 
weakened vinegar. 

Mustard Dressing. 

Takp yolk of hard-boiled egg and rub smooth 
in a bowl. Add a couple of teaspoons of French 
mustard, salt, pepper, and little sugar. Add a little 
oil, and then a little vinegar. Garnish top with the 
white, cut in pieces. 

French Dressing. 

One-quarter teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon 
white pepper, three tablespoons olive oil, ten drops 
onion juice, one tablespoon vinegar, and one-half 
tablespoon lemon juice. Put oil in cup, mix salt, 
pepper, and onion juice in bowl, run in one-half of 
oil, mixing thoroughly, then add alternately balance 
of oil, vinegar, and lemon juice. 

Cream Dressing. 

Two tablespoons cream, two tablespoons sugar, 
and four tablespoons vinegar. Put all of the ingredi- 
ents in bowl and thoroughly mix. This makes a 
splendid dressing for cold slaw. 

AUSTIN SANITARY BRUSHES 

For Personal and t-lousehold Use 

819 MONADNOCK BUILDING SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 



SALADS 91 



Mayonnaise Dressing. 

. 1 
One teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, little 

cayenne, yolks two eggs, four tablespoons lemon 
juice, one and one-half cups olive oil. Mix dry 
ingredients, add egg yolks and one teaspoon lemon 
juice, stir thoroughly; add oil at first, drop by drop; 
as mixture thickens, add lemon juice and oil alter- 
nately until all ingredients are used. (Vinegar may 
be used in place of lemon juice.) 

Mayonnaise With Whipped Cream. 

When you are in want of a large quantity of 
dressing, mayonnaise or French, add one pint of 
whipped cream to your prepared dressing, stirring 
thoroughly, just before ready to serve. 

A Green Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Chop very fine sufficient parsley to make one 
tablespoon. Put it in a bowl and rub with the back 
of a spoon until it is reduced to a paste ; during the 
rubbing, add four or five drops of alcohol. Stir into 
mayonnaise, and it is ready for use. Attractive. 

Sour Cream Dressing. 

Mix one cup sour cream and three eggs, well 
beaten. Dissolve two tablespoons sugar and table- 
spoon mustard in one-half cup vinegar; salt, pepper, 
and paprika to taste, and then stir slowly into cream 
and eggs. Put in double boiler, cook until thick, 
then add butter size of an egg and cook about five 

f\T VHITDf A II1717D brewed in Olympia, Wn., 
ULlLVillA DMK u„.urpa..ed for quality. U 

for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" --demand it. 



92 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

minutes longer. Take from fire, and bottle, and it 
will keep for months. 

Piquant Salad. 

To serve with game, a piquant salad is made of 
half a pint of walnut meats and three tart oranges. 
Peel the oranges, remove all the white pith and 
divide into sections. Cut each in half and mix with 
the nuts. Mix with a French dressing and pour 
into a pretty bowl that has been lined with tender 
lettuce leaves. , 



Cress and Apple Salad. 

Another salad that is frequently passed with the 
game course is made of sliced apples and crisp, pung- 
ent'cress. The apples are cut in small cubes, and the 
cress is broken small. This is prettily served in 
green pepper cases, each topped with a spoonful of 
yellow mayonnaise. 



It Leads. 



THE EVENING POST has both 
associated and United Press news 
service. No other paper has more 
than one. ; : : : 



BREAD AND ROLLS 



"The foundation of a happy home is laid in the kitchen." 

— Marion Harland. 

Bread 

Two cups warm milk or water, one tablespoon 
butter, two teaspoons salt, one ounce compressed 
yeast, two teaspoons sugar, flour. Heat milk or 
water, add butter, salt, and sugar. When lukewarm, 
add yeast, which has been dissolved in one-half cup 
lukewarm water; add flour gradually. When stiff 
enough to handle, turn the dough on floured board 
until it blisters. Put back into bowl, cover, and let 
rise dntil double its bulk; divide into loaves, place 
in pan, and let rise again until double its bulk. Bake 
one hour in a hot oven. 

Bread Sticks. 

Take pieces of raised bread dough, roll three- 
eighths inch thick and four or five inches long. Place 
in floured pan, far apart, brush tops with beaten 
yolk and poppy seed. Let rise; bake in a hot oven 
until brown. 

Eva's Rolls. 

Dissolve one-half cake compressed yeast in one- 
fourth cup warm milk. Into a double boiler put one 
cup milk, one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon but- 

Gloves Cleaned, all len^the, Gc a Pair 
Monthly contracts tor the care of eentlemen's 
clothing. We have just installed the most modem 
plant in the west for Dry Cleaning Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our wagons will call. 1955 CbesM St 



yu'u/^k..i<eA, 



You Are Al^vays Sure 

-of- 

Good Bread, 
Biscuits 

and Buns 

If You Use 

CROWN 
FLOUR 

STOCKTON 
MILLING CO. 

112 CaliTornia St., San Francisco 



BREAD AND ROLLS 95 

ter, one-half teaspoon salt. When butter is melted, 
remove from stove. Add to this three or four cups 
flour and beaten whites of one egg. Knead for ten 
minutes. Let dough rise, then make into little 
•twists and brush the top with yolk of egg, and 
sprinkle with poppy seed. Bake thirty minutes in hot 
oven. 

To Glaze Bread and Rolls. 

Put four level teaspoons of corn starch into a 
saucepan, add four tablespoons cold water, mix, add 
one cup of boiling water. Stir over the fire till it 
cooks for eight Tninutes. Shortly before the rolls and 
bread are ready, brush over the top with the mixture. 
Repeat this process, and in five minutes a soft, rich 
crust will form. 

Five o'clock Tea Biscuits. 

Mix one-quarter of a pound of flour ' into one 
cup of sugar, the rind and juice of two lemons, half 
a pound of butter to a smooth paste, , with the 
whites of two eggs and a little milk. Roll thin and 
cut into biscuits and >brush them over with the yolks 
of the eggs. Sprinkle with a little sifted pulverized 
sugar and bake in buttered tins. 

Grciham Bread. 

Two cups of sour milk, piece of butter the size of 
an egg, two tablespoons of rholasses, heaping tea- 
spoon of saleratus, one egg; stir in graham flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. 



SOMMER X KAUfMANN 

Two Storu--119-12SGraiit Ave. at. Geary, 836-840 Market St., nr. Stockton 



Good Shoes Only 



96 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Currant Bread. 

Two pints flour, three teaspoons baking powder, 
one-fourth teaspoon salt, two cups flour, one cup cur- 
rants, one egg, one tablespoon sugar. 

Corn Bread. 

One cup coirnmeal (yellow), a cup and a half of 
flour, two tablespoons of sugar, two teaspoons baking 
powder, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a cup 
and a half of sweet milk, and the yolks of two eggs. 
Add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
and beat as fast as possible for a minute. Pour the 
dougfi into a warm, well-buttered pan, and bake 
quickly and steadily for half an hour. The dough 
should be as soft as ginger-bread dough. 

Ginger Bread. 

One teacup sugar, one teacup molasses, one 
teacup butter, one teacup sour milk, five teacups 
flour, four -eggs, two teaspoons soda, one teaspoon 
ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon. Stir butter, sugar, 
molasses, and spices to a cream. Add milk and flour 
alternately, eggs well beaten, and stir batter ten 
minutes. Then add soda dissolved in two teaspoons 
hot water. Bake in shallow tins in a moderately slow 
oven. This is a large recipe. 

Brovm Bread- 
Three cups cqrnmeal, two cups graham or whole- 
wheat flour, one cup syrup, five cups sour milk, salt, 
one tablespoon soda. Pour in greased mold and boil 
four hours. 



Ring up FRED T. KNOLES, 2000 Fillmore Street, when 
you need repairs on Locks, Electric Bells, Gas 
Lighting, Door Openers, Etc., Tel. West 1855. 



BREAD AND ROLLS 97 

Graham Muffins. 

One and a half cups flour, one tablespoon sugar, 
two teaspoons baking powder, salt, one egg, one cup 
milk, one tablespoon melted butter added last. 

Muffins. 

One tgg, one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon 
melted butter, one cup milk, one and a half cups 
flour, with one teaspoon powder. 

Muffins. 

One tablespoon of butter, two of sugar, two 
eggs, one cup of water, two teaspoons of baking 
powder, one and one-half cups of flour. This will 
make nine muffins. 

Doughnuts. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one cup sour cream, 
two cups buttermilk or sour milk, two teaspoons 
saleratus, salt, flavor with nutmeg, flour for a stiff 
batter. 

Pop-overs. 

One cup milk, one cup flour, pinch of salt, one 
egg; beat the egg, then add milk, then flour, then 
salt, and beat thoroughly five minutes with a fork. 
Warm muffin tins, with a lump of butter as large 
as a pea in each, and bake three-quarters of an hour 
in a slow oven. Eat hot. 



GOLDEN GATE COMPRBSEDYEAST-1 



Lwht Brttd 

Rolb 
Raiuil 
Cakes, Etc. 



Freeh Daily. All Grocers. Save Labels for Premiums. 



98 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Pop-overs. 

Three cups of flour, two and one-half cups of 
milk, seven eggs, one teaspoon salt. Mix half of the 
flour with half of the milk,, then the remainder df 
flour and milk mixed together; then break the eggs 
into the mixture. This recipe makes twenty-eight 
pop-overs. 

Nut Bread. 

Mix together four cups flour, four tablespoons 
sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one cup chopped wal- 
nuts. Beat one egg well and add to it one and one- 
fourth cups milk; then mix all ingredients together 
and knead for a few minutes until like biscuit dough. 
Mold into a loaf and let rise for one-half hour. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour in moderate oven. The 
next day slite it and butter and serve with afternoon 
coffee. 

Germein Pancakes. 

I Mix together two and one-quarter cups of flour 
and one teaspoon salt; separate the whites and yolks 
of six eggs, beat the yolks very light, add one quart 
of milk, stir gradually into the flour, and beat until 
smooth. Whip the whites to a stiff, dry froth, stir 
them into the batter, and beat lightly until well 
mixed. Into a medium-sized frying pan, which has 
been heating, drop one teaspoon of butter or sweet 
dripping, turning the pan until well greased. When 
smoking hot, pour in sufficient batter to cover the 
bottom of the pan and shake until light brown on 
the bottom. Turn and brown on the other side. 

Qf-Yflffrkn ' ^ Young Men's, Boys' and Children's 

Incorporated 135 Geary St. San Francisco 



BREAD AND ROLLS 99 

Pancakes. 

Three eggs, one cup milk, half cup flour, one tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon sugar, one teaspoon olive 
oil. Fry, and roll up. 

Plain Waffles. 

Rub one rounding tablespoon butter into one quart 
of sifted flour; add a teaspoon salt and mix thor- 
oughly. Separate three eggs; add to the yolks a pint 
and a half of milk; add this to the flour; beat thor- 
oughly for fully five minutes. The little roughness 
that you will notice as you are beating is particles 
of butter. Do not try to beat these out, as, in melt- 
ing, they will make the waffles lighter. Add two 
rounding teaspoons baking powder; beat again and 
then fold in the well-beaten whites of the eggs. 
Heat the waffle-iron gradually. Dip a small paint 
brush into ttielted suet, brush the iron until every 
part is well but lightly greased ; pour the batter from 
a pitcher into the middle of the iron, and when it is 
just full close it down and turn it at once, as the 
under side will be now hotter than the top. Bake on 
both sides, and serve at once. 

Waffles. 

One and one-half cups flour sifted, pinch of 
salt, thin slice of butter rubbed together with the 
hand; milk stirred in to make a batter; beat well. 
Add yolks of two eggs and whites, beaten to a 
froth, a heaping teaspoon of yeast powder, added last 
and mixed in lightly. Have iron hot and pour in 
from a pitcher. 



Lithl Brad 



GOLD[N GATE COMPRESS[D YEAST",-.. 

Fresh Daily. All Grocera. Save Labels for Premiums. 



100 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

French Doughnuts. 

French doughnuts are much daintier than the 
ordinary ones, and are easily made. Take half a pint 
of water, half a pint of milk, six ounces of butter, 
half a pound of flour, and six eggs. Heat the butter, 
milk, and water, and when it boils remove from the 
fire and stir in the flour, using a wooden spoon. 
When well mixed, stir in the eggs, whipping each 
one in separately until you have a hard batter. Now 
pour your dough into a pastry bag. This is an ordi- 
nary cheesecloth bag, one corner of which has a tiny 
tin funnel, with a fluted or fancy edge. These little 
tins may be purchased at any tinware store. It 
should be very small, not over two inches high at the 
most, so the dough may be easily squeezed through it. 
Pour the paste on buttered paper, making into ring 
shapes. Fry in hot fat. Dust with powdered sugar. 

Biscuits. 

To one quart of flour and two teaspoons yeast 
powder, pinch of salt, add four tablespoons butter. 
Mix thoroughly, moisten with milk, using a knife 
(not hand or spoon). Have the dough as soft as 
possible. Handle it very little. Roll out about 
one-third of an inch thick, cut out and place a small 
piece of butter on each biscuit. Fold over and press 
down and bake in quick oven. 

Simple Muffins. 

Mix one pint of flour, three level teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, one-half teaspoon salt. In another bowl 
beat the yolks oi two eggs, add one-half cup milk 

i\f VH^Df A DCCD Brewed in Olympia, Wn, 
V/LliTJliA DIjLiIV un.urp«..ea for quality, U 

for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" ..demand it. 



BREAD AND ROLLS 101 

and one-half cup melted butter and two tablespoons 
sugar. Put the two mixtures quickly together, and 
add the beaten whites. Fill the muffin pans two- 
thirds full and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 



Dainty Muffins. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter with one-fourth 
cup sugar; add one well-beaten egg, one and one-half 
cups well-sifted pastry flour into which have been 
mixed three scant teaspoons of baking powder and 
one-half cup milk. Bake in hot, buttered gem pans, 
in a moderately hot oven, twenty-five minutes. 

Graham Bread. 

In the morning mix into a dough, a little softer 
than for white bread, the following: One pint milk, 
scalded and cooled, two tablespoons sugar, one tea- 
spoon salt, one-half cup of yeast, two cups white 
flour, three and one-half cups sifted graham flour. 
Let it raise until light, then knead or stir it, put into 
well-greased pans, and form into loaves. Let it rise 
again, and then bake a little longer and in a less hot 
oven than white bread. 

Corn Bread. 

One cup cornmeal, one cup flour, one-half cup 
granulated sugar, one cup sour cream, two eggs, 
one-half teaspoon each baking soda and salt. Bake 
in a moderate oven twenty to thirty minutes. 



GOLDEN GATE COMPRESS[D YEAST- 



LiflilBreaJ 

Rolb 
Raised 
; Caku, Etc. 

Fresh Daily. AU Grocer*. Save Label* for Premium*. 



grg0mtrttnn Ptyarmartat 
Our Phone No. West 556 



[DWIN VAL. SCHMIDT, 

Drugs, Prescriptions, Toilet Articles 
COR. CALIFORNIA AND FILLMORE STS. free ilelivery to any part of the City 



M^gt^rn g>tor laundry 

^Floating Soap And Bath 
Alex Mann Jr. Co. Inc. 

UfHt E«& 3flanst 

Seed, Bulbs. PliSh, 'choice Cut Flowers ' ^ ^4 Suttef Street 

Plants Rented for Weddings and Parlies Phone Franklin 3328 

Webber, Spooner & Buchanan 

MILLINERY 
^^"^ ^^ZJe^^^fHi^n ^,tr ^""^ San Francisco 

Tetephone West 5716 Established 1866 

G. LEDERER. Wig Making and Toupee Making 

Manicuring, Shampooing, Face Massage, Scalp Treatments, 
Quintonica Hair Tonic, Hair Work, Hair Dyeing, Hair 
Dressing, Hair Switches, Hair Ornaments. Pure Human 
Hair Goods 
1809 FILLMORF STREET SA^i FRANCISCO 



Delicious Salads 



STERN'S 



Catering and Delicatessen Co. 

We Cater to Luncheons 850 DEVI8ADER0 STREET 

and Receptions Call Marlcet N»ar McAllister 

Telepkone West 1019 

Xne Popular Fisn Market 

Fish, Oysters, Crabs, Clams, Shrimps 
Lobsters, Mussels, Frogs, Terrapin, Etc. 



Telephone West 425 

Bonita Fruit Market 

Fruits, Vegetables, Eggs, Poultry, 
Game, Olive Oil. 

2010 FILLMORE STREET 



PUDDINGS 

AND PUDDING SAUCES 

"We are such stuff as dreams are made of." 

Caramel Custard. 

One cooking spoon granulated sugar, put on with 
very little water till light brown. Wet dish with cold 
water, then pour in the caramel. 

Make custard of one pint milk, sugar to taste, 
teaspoon almond extract, three eggs, well beaten 
and then scalded with the milk, etc. Pour into the 
dish and bake about twenty minutes. When done, 
turn out and serve. 

Put the dish in water when you bake it and do 
not remove until the water cools. 

Bread Pudding. 

Heat one quart of milk and pour it over two 
cups of bread crumbs and add a small piece of butter. 
While soaking, stir up the yolks of four eggs, one 
cup sugar, the rind of one lemon, and when bread is 
soft and cool, stir the eggs into it. Bake until 
it sets. 

Make a meringue of the beaten whites of four 
eggs, four tablespoons of powdered sugar, the juice 
of one lemon ; spread on top and put into oven long 
enough to color it a light brown. 






GloTes Cleaned, all lengths, Sc a Pair 
Monthly contracts for the care of gentlemen's 
clcthinK. We have just installed the most modem 
plant in the west for Dry Cleanine Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our wagons will call. 19S5 Clesint SL 



104 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Black Bread Pudding. 

Yolks of three eggs beaten with one cup sugar; 
add one teaspoon of cinnamon, pinch of cloves, and 
pinch of allspice; one cup of stale rye bread crumbs 
added gradually. Mix well and add beaten whites. 
Bake slowly. Half an hour before serving, add one 
cup of claret or white wine. Serve ,with sherry wine 
sauce or whipped cream. 

Steamed Bread Pudding. 

Five slices stale bread, medium thick, soaked in 
water ; squeeze out water. Add one cup brown sugar, 
pinch salt, one cup raisins, currants, and citron, one 
teaspoon mixed spices, one teaspoon chocolate, one 
teaspoon vanilla, two eggs, dropped in whole, and 
lastly one heaping teaspoon yeast powder. Grease 
pudding mold, put in ingredients, and steam two 
hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

A Simple Rice Pudding. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons rice; sugar, 
vanilla, and salt to taste. Bake two hours, slowly. 
When cool, add marmalade and whipped cream. 

Cornmeal Pudding. 

Beat four ounces butter and one cup powdered 
sugar until very light. Beat in thoroughly the yolks 
of three eggs. Add gradually one cup and one table- 
spoon cornmeal, then the stifif-beaten whites of eggs. 
Mix well and bake in a buttered dish. To be eaten 
hot with maple syrup. 

Phone West 1000 We'll do the Rest 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

2036-2054 O'FAI^ELL ST. 



COAL 



PUDDINGS 105 



Dimpus Dampus. 

Make pancake batter of three eggs, three table- 
spoons flour (or more in same proportion), milk for 
very thin batter, pinch of salt. Slice any kind of 
fruit into the batter. Bake twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. 



Dimpus Dampus. 

Melt one cup butter; add two tablespoons brown 
sugar, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one pint milk, flour 
to make a paste. Spread in buttered pan and cover 
with chopped apples. Bake quickly. 

Carrot Pudding. 

One cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one cup 
grated carrots, one cup grated potatoes, one cup 
raisins, one cup currants, two cups bread crumbs, 
one-half teaspoon soda stirred in potatoes, one tea- 
spoon each cloves, cinnamon, and allspice. A little 
syrup may be added, and four tablespoons whisky. 
Steam three hours. Serve with hard sauce. 



May's Favorite Pudding. 

To one pint of boiling water add the juice of one 
lemon and one-half cup sugar; while still boiling, stir 
in three tablespoons instantaneous tapioca. Continue 
boiling one minute, till the grains are clear. Have 
ready the beaten whites of two eggs in earthen 
bowl; pour boiling tapioca on them, beating until 

fCt> II "V 'q ^'"*® Equipagesand Automobiles 

JVCtC^ O 1623-1631 Pine Street 

Phones Franltlin 216 

Franklin 217 San Francisco, Cal. 



106 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

thoroughly mixed. Set aside to cool. Serve with the 
following sauce : 

To one pint of boiling milk add the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs, together with one-half teaspoon 
of moistened corn starch and one-half cup sugar; 
flavor with lemon extract. 



Steamed Pudding. 



One cup chopped walnuts, one cup chopped 
raisins, one cup milk, one-half cup molasses, two cups 
graham flour, one and one-half teaspoons soda, two 
teaspoons yeast powder, one-half teaspoon salt. 
Steam three hours. 



Steam three hours 



Grapenut Pudding. 

Make a thick apple sauce and put alternate layers 
of grapenuts and sauce in a buttered dish. Have 
grapenuts on top. Bake half an hour, and serve with 
cream. 



Lemon Pudding. 

Butter a pudding dish and line with stale cake. 
Pour over a lemon custard of the yolks of six eggs, 
creamed with two cups sugar, grated rinds and juice 
of three lemons, one-half cup melted butter. Place 
pudding dish in a pan of hot water and bake fifteen 
minutes. Beat whites to froth, add one tablespoon 
sugar to each white, and put on top. Bake till light 
brown. 



Borden's Pioneer Milk 



RICHEST 
PUREST 
BEST 



PUDDINGS 107 



Apple a la Confiture. 

Boil one cup sugar and two cups water, and pour 
it over Greening apples that have been pared and 
cored. Cover closely and cook till tender. Remove 
apples and add to the sauce the grated rind of one 
lemon, little cinnamon, handful of raisins. Boil until 
thick, then add sherry, and when cool pour over the 
apples. Before serving, put whipped cream on each 
apple and a candie'd cherry in the center. 

Apple Pudding. 

Cream the yolks of five eggs with one cup pow- 
dered sugar. Add to it ten lady fingers, five large 
green apples, grated, juice of one-half lemon and 
rind, almond flavoring. Bake in a spring form one 
hour. When cold, spread with strawberry jam and 
whipped cream or white of egg meringue. 



Cocoanut Pudding. 

One grated cocoanut, six eggs, six apples, grated 
rind one lemon, juice one orange, one cup sugar. 
Beat the eggs light, gradually add the other ingredi- 
ents, stir thoroughly, and bake in a moderate oven 
one-half hour. Eat cold. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

Sprinkle four tablespoons flour over one and one- 
half pints huckleberries and set aside for half an hour. 
Soak one pint crumbed bread in one quart milk; add 

AF VH^DI A DWD Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 
ULILVIlIA DIjIjIV un.urpa..cd for quality,!. 

for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



108 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

three tablespoons sugar, pinch of salt, and the huckle- 
berries. Put all into a greased pudding dish with 
flakes of butter on top. Bake forty-five minutes. 
Serve with hard sauce. 



Pear Kugel. 

Cream one cup rendered fat with one cup sugar; 
add one loaf bread, previoiisly soaked ,and pressed 
dry, a little salt, one-fourth cup flour. Grease pud- 
ding dish and put in alternate layers of mixture and 
pears, that have been boiled with water, sugar, and 
claret. Bake slowly three hours. 

Suet Pudding With Pears. 

Half a loaf of white bread, soak the white part 
and grate the crust; one cup finely chopped suet, one 
cup flour, one egg, one-half cup sugar, salt and spices 
to taste, half teaspoon yeast powder. Make this into 
a dumpling, put it on a tiny plate in a large kettle. 
Lay prunes and pears around, about a pound of each, 
one cup of sugar, couple of pieces stick cinnamon, 
dash of claret, and water to almost cover; then cover 
tightly and boil four or five hours. 

Plum Pudding. 

One cup bread crumbs, one pint scalded milk 
put on bread overnight, one cup brown sugar, one cup 
suet chopped fine, one cup seeded raisins, one cup 
currants, one-half cup citron, one tablespoon butter, 
one tablespoon sherry, one tablespoon brandy, one 



GOLDEN GATE COMPRESSED YEAST- 



Lvbt Bread 

Rolb 
Raiud 
Cdut, Etc 



Fresh Daily. All Grocers. Save Labels for Premiums. 



PUDDINGS 109 



teaspoon nutmeg, one small teaspoon cloves, one-half 
teaspoon cinnamon, four eggs well beaten, and lastly- 
one level teaspoon soda, dissolved in hot milk. Put 
in greased pudding mold; boil lightly at least six 
hours. Serve with hard sauce. 



Plum Pudding. 

One cup raisins, one cup currants, one-half pound 
chopped citron, and one-fourth pound grated al- 
monds; pour over all one wine glass of brandy. Let 
all stand overnight. Mix well one cup chopped suet, 
one pound bread crumbs, one cup brown sugar, two 
apples finely chopped, pinch of salt, four eggs well 
beaten, and one tablespoon mixed spices. Then add 
the prepared fruit and nuts. Butter a mold, put mix- 
ture into it, and boil in a kettle of boiling water for 
five hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 

Thanksgiving Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, one cup chopped suet, one 
cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups of flour, one 
cup seeded raisins, one-fourth pound /of figs chopped, 
one pound of walnuts broken, one grated nutmeg, one 
teaspoon of soda. Mix well and steam two and one- 
half hours. 

Sauce. 

One cup of powdered sugar, one-half cup butter 
creamed, one cup of whipped cream. Put this into 
the double boiler and beat until foamy; add a wine 
glass of sherry and serve at once. 

Borden's Pioneer Milk = 



110 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Norwegian. 

Soak half a pound of sago in cold water for four 
hours; then boil a pound of any ripe fruit (goose- 
berries or red currants are the most suitable) in a 
pint of water sweetened to taste. When quite soft, 
pass them through a hair sieve and return to the 
saucepkn with the sago. Stir over the fire until the 
sago is clear, then pour into a mold. When set, turn 
it out carefully, and serve with whipped cream. 

Banana Compote. 

Remove the skins from eight bananas and stew 
gently with a glass of melted currant jelly for twenty 
minutes. Take out the bananas, cut lengthwise, and 
lay in a glass dish. Pour the syrupi over, and serve 
cold. A syrup can be made of claret or port and 
sugar. 

Apricot Meringue. 

One cup stewed apricots, press through a sieve; 
one cup sugar, four eggs, beaten separately. Bake 
twenty minutes in a moderate oven; when cold, cover 
with whipped cream, flavored with sherry wine. 



Jelly Whip. 

One tumbler jelly, one tumbler hot water, one 
heaping tablespoon corn starch, one tumbler cold 
water, whites of two eggs. Put the jelly in a sauce- 
pan with the hot water; stir till dissolved, and when 
boiling stir in the corn starch, blended in the cold 



Phone West WOO We'll do the Rest 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

2036-2054 O'FARRELL ST. 



COAL 



PUDDINGS 111 



water, 'and cook three minutes. Pour into a dish 
and when cold beat till light with an egg beater, then 
add thfe beaten whites of eggs. Turn out on dish 
and serve with cream or a boiled custard. 

Prune Whip. 

One pound prunes, five eggs, one-half cup grar-u- 
"lated sugar. Stew the prunes until tender; when 
done, press through a colander. Beat the whites of 
eggs to a stiff froth, adding the sugar; into the 
whites stir the prune pulp. Bake in pudding dish 
until nicely browned. To be eaten cold with cream. 

Marrons a la Roma Pudding. 

Boil one pound of chestnuts fifteen minutes. 
Shell and skin them, then put back on stove with a 
cup of milk and boil till tender. Rub through a 
colander. Butter a mold, line it with the pulp, then 
add a layer of apple sauce that has been colored 
with currant jelly, then another layer of chestnuts, 
and again apple sauce. Squeeze lemon juice over 
all, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out on a 
platter and serve with whipped cream colored with 
currant jelly. 

Individual Syllabub. 

In double boiler boil one tablespoon sherry, one 
tablespoon sugar, yolk of one egg. Let it cool and 
then beat in the stiff-beaten white of egg. Serve in 
punch glasses. 



GOLDEN GATE COMPRESSED YEAST 

Fre<h Daily. All Grocers. Save Labels for Premiums. 



LisUBriid 
Cakei, Etc. 



112 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. 

One pint of milk, one pint of flour, one egg, a 
pinch of salt. Pour this over six or eight apples, 
pared and cored. Bake one hour. Serve with hard 
sauce. 

Farina Pudding, 

One and one-half pints milk with nine level 
tablespoons sugar, five bitter and five sweet almonds 
chopped fine, and vanilla to taste, brought to boiling 
point, and twelve level tablespoons farina dropped in 
slowly and stirred constantly. Cook for twelve min- 
utes, then add slowly the beaten whites of five eggs. 
Put it in a form and when cold serve with a fruit 
sauce. 

Hsird Sauce. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, beat very 
hard, flavoring with lemon juice. Smooth with a 
knife dipped into cold water. 

Foamy Sauce for Steamed Puddings. 

Beat one egg light, add a scant cup of granulated 
sugar, then add three tablespoons boiling milk; flavor 
with vanilla and serve immediately. 

Plum Pudding Sauce. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one egg, two 
tablespoons brandy; stir butter, sugar, and egg 
together for one-half hour, then add brandy. 



Borden's Pioneer Milk 



RICHEST 
PUREST 
BEST 



PUDDINGS 113 



Fruit Sauce. 

To one cup boiling water add one-half cup mar- 
malade or jelly and juice of one lemon. Bring to a 
boil and thicken with one tablespoon corn starch. 
Sweeten to taste. The beaten white of an egg may 
be added. 

English Sweet Sauce. 

Put into a bowl the yolks of two eggs with four 
tablespoons powdered sugar and stir until it becomes 
creamy. Add one-half pint of sweet cream, little by 
little, beating constantly, and grate in the rind of 
one orange. Place the pan on a slow fire and stir 
well for five minutes, being careful not to let boil. 
Strain and serve. 

Sauce for Steamed Puddings. 

Yolks of two eggs, one cup sugar, beat until 
creamy; one tablespoon boiling milk, whites beaten 
stiff and stirred in ; flavor with wine or vanilla. 

Milk Pudding Sauce. 

One egg, one-half cup butter, one cup sugar; mix 
well, then pour over all one cup boiling milk. Flavor 
with vanilla or nutmeg. 

Custard for Lemon Pudding. 

One pint of milk brought to a boil, yolks of two 
eggs, and five teaspoons of sugar. Beat together 
and pour very slowly into the scalded milk and let 
all just come to a boil. When cool, flavor with 
vanilla. 



OLYMPiA mm 



Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 
unsurpassed for quality, is 
for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS TBE WATER" -demand it. 



114 COUNCIL COOK BOOK 

Wine Sauce. 

Moisten one tablespoon corn starch and pour 
over it one cup boiling water. Stir till it thickens, 
and steam ten minutes. Cream one-fourth cup butter 
with one cup powdered sugar; add one egg. Remove 
corn starch from fire, add one-half cup white wine. 
Pour it over the creamed butter and sugar, and cook 
in double boiler. 

Wine Sauce. 

Boil one-half cup white wine and one-half cup 
of water; thicken with one-half teaspoon corn starch. 
Cream one tablespoon butter and one of sugar; pour 
the boiled wine mixture over this, then add sugar and 
sherry wine to taste. 

Maple Sugar Sauce. 

Boil one-fourth pound maple sugar with one-half 
cup water till it becomes stringy. Add juice and 
grated rind of one lemon. Beat the whites of two 
eggs to froth and gradually add the syrup. 

Brandy Sauce. 

In a double boiler put one cup water, one-half 
cup brandy, one cup granulated sugar, juice of one- 
half lemon. When boiled, add yolks of two eggs. 
Stir until thick. 



T ^ mMON^wS-H. & M.Skirt Binding 

L. O. a 1 IVl W 1 > ^J I Marien's Featherbone 

658 Mission Street ^ De Long's Hooks and Eyes 



FROZEN PUDDINGS 

"Variety's the very spice of life, that gives it all its flavors." 

Frozen Lady Finger Pudding. 

Beat three heaping tablespoons granulated sugar 
and yolks of six eggs to a froth. Add one pint of 
cream, then one dozen lady fingers dipped in sherry^: 
wine. Stir well together, put in a mold with a tight 
cover, and pack in rock salt and ice. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Dissolve one tablespoon gelatine in one-half 
cup lukewarm milk. Boil, three-fourths cup chocolate 
in one-half cup milk; yolks three eggs beaten with 
one-half cup sugar. Add vanilla, and lastly beaten 
whites. Pour in a form or mold, place on ice, and 
serve with plain or whipped cream. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Cream the yolks of five eggs with two-thirds cup 
granulated sugar, pinch of salt, tablespoon vanilla. 
Add two-thirds cup ground chocolate dissolved in 
one-half cup milk. Dissolve five sheets gelatine in 
scant half cup of water on the stove, and add this to 
above ingredients. Lastly, add beaten whites. Put 
in form and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve 
with whipped cream. 






Gloves Cleaned, all lenflrtha, 6c a Pair 
Monthly contracts for the care of srentlemen'a 
clothkie. We have just installed the most modem 
plant in the west for Dry Cleaning Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains, Etc. 
Phono West 926. Our wagons will call. 195S Chestnat SL 



116 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Maple Pudding. 

Scant three-fourths cup maple syrup, mix with 
yolks of four eggs, stir on stove until custard-like; 
beat four whites and add while mixture is still warm. 
Beat one-half pint of charlotte russe cream and add. 
Pack in salt and ice three to four hours. Toasted, 
chopped walnuts may be added. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in one-half pint 
cold water. Boil one pint milk with two-thirds cup 
sugar. Add yolks of five eggs, then gelatine; let boil 
until thorpughly mixed. Then add two-thirds cup 
chopped raisins, three tablespoons chopped almonds, 
one tablespoon vanilla, sherry or brandy, and lastly 
beaten whites. Line form with macaroons. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Banana Pudding. 

Beat three yolks of eggs with one-half cup sugar ; 
add one and one-half to two bananas, which have 
been beaten to a pulp, the juice of an orange, and 
one-half pint whipped cream. Put in mold, pack in 
salt and ice three to four hours. 

Fig Pudding. 

Grind one-fourth pound dried figs and soak in 
four tablespoons rum. Whip one quart cream. Boil 
the yolks of three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup 
milk. When cold, stir in the figs and cream and 
pack in ice. 



FRECKLES 

CAN BE 

REMOVED 



Baer's Kurtz Freckle SaWe posi- 
tively removes freckles, fan and 
sunburn. Keeps the skin smooth 
and white. Manufactured by 
Baer Drug Co. 722 Market St..S.F. 



For ^ale by all 
Druggists 

Price 50 Cents 



FROZEN PUDDINGS 117 

Strawberry Pudding, 

Boil one cup sugar with one and one-half cups 
water for twenty minutes. Heat one quart straw- 
berries, mash through sieve, and add to sugar and 
water and freeze. Make custard of one cup sugar 
and one and one-half cups water, boil twenty min- 
utes; add well-beaten yolks of four eggs and put on 
back of stove, stirring till it thickens. Flavor with 
one tablespoon rum and one teaspoon vanilla. When 
cold, add one-half pint whipped cream. Rinse pud- 
ding mold with cold water; line with the strawberry 
ice, leaving a hollow in center for the custard. Pack 
in ice and salt for three or four hours. 



Mocha Pudding. 

One-half pound butter rubbed to a cream; add 
gradually the yolks of five eggs, beaten with one-half 
pound sugar, one tablespoon arrac, one cup strong 
coffee (added a spoon at a time, or it will curdle). 
Rub mold with butter and lay in one-half pound lady 
.fingers, then the mixture. Let it stand where it is 
warm for half a day, then put on ice. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Mocha Mousse. 

Cream yolks of three ■ eggs with one-half cup 
granulated sugar. Add one-half pint charlotte russe 
cream, whipped, one-half cup grated macaroons, two 
tablespoons Mocha essence, one teaspoon vanilla, 
lastly beaten whites. Put in a mold and pack in 
salt and ice for three hours. 

J^ff llyt 'q Fine Equipages "nd Automobiles 

I\.dljr O 1623-1631 Pine Street 

Phones FranVlin 216 

Franklin 217 San Francisco. CaL 



118 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Delmonico Pudding. 

Cream yolks of four eggs with one cup granu- 
lated sugar. Dissolve one-half package gelatine in 
three cups milk and add to eggs. Let all come to a 
boil, then remove from fire, and when tepid add pinch 
of salt, three tablespoons rum, one tablespoon vanilla, 
beaten whites of eggs. Put alternately in a mold 
one-fourth pound glazed fruits, twelve macaroons, 
crumbed, and the pudding. Let it stand a few hours 
and serve with custard sauce or whipped cream. 

Marshmallow Pudding. 

One tablespoon gelatine, put same in a coffee 
cup and fill half full with cold water; let stand ten 
minutes, then fill cup with boiling water; stir until 
dissolved. Allow to stand until mixture becomes 
lukewarm, then place in mixing bowl, add whites of 
two eggs, one cup of sugar, and beat all together 
about half hour; separate into three parts, flavoring 
first part with ground dry chocolate, second part with 
rose water and color pink flavoring, third pairt with 
vanilla; or flavor the whole mixture with coffee 
exti-act. Place in alternate layers in melon mold and 
serve with whipped cream. 

Biscuit Tortoni for Twelve Persons. 

One quart of charlotte russe cream well whipped, 
nine macaroons rolled and mixed well with the yolk 
of one egg, sugar enough to taste, the whole to be 
put in the freezer until frozen. The above, with a 
wine glass of sherry added, makes a good frozen 
pudding. 

Si /'f/y/'AofI ^ ^ Young Men's, Boys' and Children's 

Incorporated 135 Q^^^y gt. San Franclsco 



FROZEN PUDDINGS 119 



Brule Ice Cream. 

Prepare custard of one cup milk, yolks of three 
eggs, one cup sugar. Burn one cup brown sugar with 
one-half cup chopped almonds. Add vanilla or sherry, 
one quart cream, and freeze. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 

One cup freshly made, strong coffee, scant cup 
sugar, two cups milk; boil together five minutes the 
evening before, and place on ice till morning. Have 
ready one pint table cream. Add gradually to coffee 
mixture, and beat lightly for a few minutes. Put in 
freezer and freeze, not too hard. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Two and one-half bars chocolate, boil with one 
and one-half cups milk, one and one-fourth cup 
sugar, vanilla; beat two whole eggs. When chocolate 
is dissolved, pour over the eggs (strain the chocolate 
if lumpy). Add one-half pint charlotte russe cream, 
and freeze. 

Alaska Bake. 

Have a brick ice cream and place on a platter, 
and then on a cold board. Just before serving time 
have ready a meringue made from five or six eggs. 
Beat the eggs until they are light. Add one table- 
spoon sugar (powdered) to each egg and beat until 
stiff and glassy. Cover the ice cream all over with 
the meringue, dust the meringue with powdered 
sugar thickly, and run the board and platter into a 
very hot oven for just a moment to brown the 
meringue, then send this smoking hot to the table. 

^ • . Doings Fully Detailed in the 

^QQIPfU Saturday Evening Post. Deliv- 
^■^ c/ ered daily 30 cents a month. 



120 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Fruit Sherbets. 

There is no form in which ices are more palata- 
ble or healthful than in the form of sherbet. This 
is made of fruit juice, sugar, and water. The simplest 
sherbet is made by mixing the sugar, water, and 
fruit juice together. A richer and smoother ice is 
obtained by boiling the sugar and water together, 
then adding the fruit juice, and, when the mixture 
is cool, freezing it. It takes nearly twice as long to 
freeze the preparation made in this way as when 
made with the uncooked mixture. 

Sherbets are usually served at the end of a din- 
ner, but they are sometimes served before the game. 

Currant Sherbet. 

Put a pint of sugar into a quart of boiling water 
and boil for an hour, and then add a pint of currant 
juice and the juice of two lemons. When cold, 
freeze. 

Raspberry Sherbet. 

Mix together one pint of raspberry juice and the 
juice of two lemons. Let this mixture stand for 
one hour, then add one quart of water and a pint of 
sugar, strain and freeze; or the sugar and water may 
be boiled together for twenty minutes, the strained 
juice added to this, and when the preparation is cold 
it may be frozen. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

One good-size pineapple chopped fine, add a 
quart of water, make very sweet, and freeze. 



Borden's Pioneer Milk 



RICHEST 
PUREST 
BEST 



FROZEN PUDDINGS 121 



Roman Punch. 

Five lemons, one quart water, three cups sugar, 
one-fourth pint Jamaica rum, brandy, one-third pint 
sherry, whites of four eggs. Make a lemonade of the 
lemons, water, and sugar, and boil a few moments; 
when cold, add a little less than one-fourth pint 
Jamaica rum, a little brandy, one-third pint sherry; 
when half frozen, add whites of four eggs (beaten) ; 
freeze again. 

Apricot Ice Cream. 

One can apricots, one pint sugar, one quart 
water, one pint whipped cream. Cut the apricots in 
small pieces, add sugar and water and freeze; when 
half frozen, add whipped cream. 

White Velvet Sherbet. 

Six lemons, three cups sugar, three pints milk. 
Mix lemon juice and sugar and add milk gradually. 
Freeze. 

Strawberry Mold. 

Prepare one cup berry juice and sweeten to 
taste. Have ready a scant half teacup of sago 
soaked one hour in water enough to cover. Boil the 
sago in the fruit juice until thick like jelly. Beat 
up the whites of two eggs and add to the sago while 
hot and remove immediately from the stove. Mold 
and serve with cream or berry juice. 

This mold can be made with any kind of fruit 
juice preferred. 



LifktBrad 



GOLD[N GATE COMPR[SS[D YEAST -,£,-. 

V Cum, Etc. 
Fresh Daily. All Grocera. Sav* Labeli for Premiumt. 



122 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Creamed Strawberries. 

Put a layer of nice ripe berries in a deep glass 
dish and sprinkle lightly with sugar, and so on, until 
the dish is nearly filled. Pour over them a cup of 
cream whipped with the whites of two eggs, and a 
small spoonful of sugar. Serve as soon as prepared 
or they will not be nice. 

Oranged Strawberries. 

Take one quart of nice berries and place in a 
glass dish; cover with sugar. Pour over them one 
cup of orange juice and serve at once. A very deli- 
cious and simple dessert. 

Strawberry Dessert. 

Strawberries and pineapple mixed make a nice 
c^essert. Cut the pineapple into small pieces about 
the size of berries. Mix sugar through them before 
bringing to table. ' 

Cantaloupe Charlotte Russe. 

Cut chilled melons in halves, remove the seeds, 
and fill with ice till ready to serve; then remove ice 
and fill with the charlotte russe. Soak half an ounce 
of gelatine in three tablespoons cold water for thirty 
minutes, then dissolve with two tablespoons boiling 
water. Whip one pint cream to a stiff froth, add 
a tablespoon powdered sugar, one teaspoon orange 
extract. Turn the gelatine in slowly, beating all the 
time. When it begins to stiffen, put on ice to finish 
chilling. Fill the melon halves and serve with a 
maraschino cherry on top of each. 



WAITER BAKER'S ">^'' ^^cou.t^ 

Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



PIES AND PASTRIES 



"Life's a mockery and cheat, . 

So much you like and dassent eat." 

—Old Song. 

Pie Crust. 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons sugar, 
two eggs, two tablespoons flour, and a pinch of 
yeast powder. Bake in spring form. 



Pie Crust. *• 

One cup sour cream, two cups flour, one table- 
spoon butter, two tablespoons sugar, pinch of salt. 
Pick the butter into flour, then mix all together 
with a knife, after which work it like other crust. 
Must stand at least twenty-four hours before using it. 



Pie Crust. 

One cup of butter, creamed and left overnight 
on ice. In the morning mix one and one-fourth cups 
sifted flour with a little ice water to form a dough. 
Roll out, sprinkle with flour, and place the cup of 
butter in the center. Fold over dough, and roll three 
times. Let stand in a cool place one-half hour, then 
roll once again. 






Gloves Cleaned, all lengths* fie a Pair 
Monthly contracts for the care of srentlemen'a 
clothing. We have just installed the most modern 
plant in the west for Dry Cleaning Ladies' Dainty 
Garments, Blankets, Curtains. Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our wa^rona will call. 1955 Chestnot St 



124 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Pie Crust. 

Two cups of flour, pinch of salt, two level tea- 
spoons yeast powder, four heaping tablespoons butter 
chopped into the flour, and eight tablespoons cold 
water. Mix all with a knife, then turn onto a well- 
floured board; roll lightly. 

Pie Crust. 

Three cups flour, one cup shortening, one-half 
teaspoon salt; chop flour and shortening till fine; add 
water. 

Cherry Roll. 

Two cups of sifted flour, two teaspoons yeast 
powder, pinch of salt, a little sugar, a slice of butter; 
rub all together, add milk or water enough to roll 
out one inch thick. Spread with butter and sugar, 
then a layer of stoned cherries. Roll, and bake in 
a quick oven. ' 

Strawberry Dumplings. 

Two cups sifted flour, pinch of salt, two round- 
ing teaspoons yeast powder, two eggs creamed, two 
tablespoons melted butter, and milk to make a batter. 
Grease custard cups, put a layer of sugared straw- 
berries on the bottom, ^then a layer of batter, then 
berries, then batter. Bake twenty minutes in a pan 
of water. Serve with fruit sauce made of one cup 
of berries, cooked in a cup of sweetened water, 
strained, and thickened with one small teaspoon corn 
starch. 



GOLD[N GATE COMPRESSED YEASTH 



UiltBnU 

Rolb 
Raitul 
Calm, EU. 



Fresh Daily. All Grocers. Save Labels for Premiums. 



PIES AND PASTRIES 125 

Pineapple Fritters. 

(Delicious.) 

One ripe sugar pine (or canned Singapore), three 
lemons, two tablespoons of rosewater, one cup of 
sugar, three eggs, one and one-half cups of milk, one 
and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder, 
salt; peel, slice, and cut up the pineapple, put into a 
glass bowl, sprinkle with one-half cup of sugar, set 
aside for an hour or two, carefully collecting all the 
liquid ; sift flour, baking powder, and salt twice ; beat 
the eggs a little with one-half cup of sugar, mix with 
the milk and make a medium soft dough; take about 
three-fourths of the chopped pineapple, drain off, the 
grated rind of three lemons, and with the rosewater 
mix in the dough. Fry in hot fat (like doughnuts) 
in the shape of dumplings, cut dough with a wet 
tablespoon ; when fried should be about the size of a 
goose egg. 

Sauce. — Take the remainder of pineapple and 
juice, the juice of two lemons, a little butter, sugar 
to suit taste, corn starch; boil sauce about five min- 
utes; serve hot as a side dish. Before pouring over 
cream sauce, gently break open the fritter on top 
lengthwise. 

Snov^balls. 

Mix one teaspoon butter, one-fourth teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon sugar with one egg. Add one 
tablespoon cream, one teaspoon brandy, and flour to 
make stiff dough. Toss on a floured board, roll very 
thin, cut in pieces three inches long and two inches 
wide. Fry in hot fat till light brown, and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. 



OLYMPIA BEER 



Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 
unsurpassed for quality, is 
for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" --demand it. 



126 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



< 



Cheese Straws. 



One-half cup of flour, two tablespoons of butter, 
four tablespoons of grated cheese, yolk of one egg, 
dash of cayenne pepper, enough ice water to moisten. 
Mix as little as possible. Roll out about a quarter 
of an inch thick, and cut into long, narrow strips. 
Shake a little more cheese on top, and bake. This 
is also an excellent pie crust for one pie, omitting 
pepper and cheese. 

Cheese Straws. 

One cup of grated cheese, one cup of flour, two 
tablespoons of butter, a little red pepper and salt; 
roll thin, then cut in long, narrow strips and bake 
in a hot oven. 

Custard Pie. 

One and one-half cups scalded milk, two well- 
beaten eggs, a little salt, nutmeg as flavoring, three 
tablespoons sugar. To the well-beaten eggs add 
the sugar, salt, nutmeg, then stir in the scalded 
milk, which has been allowed to cool. Bake in a 
moderate oven until custard is set. 

Mince Meat. 

Four pounds apples, chopped and cooked; two 
pounds coffee sugar in one pint of cider; two pounds 
of beef (edge bone), cooked and chopped; one . 
pound suet, chopped; one pound raisins, chopped; 
one pound currants; one-half pound citron, chopped 

SPECIAL ART EXHIBITIONS 

During Winter and Spring in Ohr New Gallery 
Fine Selection of Mirrors, Framed and Unframed JEngrayines and Photo- 
etsphs Soitable for Gifts. Framing and Gilding Objects of Art at 
HELGESEN'S, 2239 FILLMORE St., near Clay 



PIES AND PASTRIES 127 

very fine; one pint molasses; one pint brandy and 
port; grated rind and juice of two lemons; salt to 
taste; two and one-half teaspoons ground cloves; 
five teaspoons ground cinnamon; two teaspoons 
ground mace; one nutmeg. After standing a few 
days, add what taste dictates. 

Mock Mince Pie. 

One cup chopped raisins, one cup chopped nuts 
(almonds or walnuts), one cup sour cream, pinch of 
soda, sweeten all to' taste, yolks of two eggs, whites 
beaten to froth for meringue. Bake crust on t)ut- 
side of tin, then put it inside and put in the filling 
and meringue. 

Lemon Pie. 

Two eggs, juice and rind of one lemon, scant 
cup of sugar, two tablespoons of flour, cup of boiling 
water. Mix all together but the whites. Boil in a 
double boiler until it thickens. Make a meringue 
of the whites beaten with two teaspoons of sugar. 

Lemon Pie Cream. 

Mix one tablespoon corn starch with four table- 
spoons water. Take the juice of three lemons, 
grated rind of one, one cup sugar, three-fourths cup 
water, and heat to boiling point, then stir in corn 
starch and cook a few minutes. Stir in one teaspoon 
butter and set away to cool. When cold, add yolk^ 
of four eggs well beaten. Pour all into pie crust 
that has not been previously baked, and bake in 



Borden's Pioneer Milk 



RICHEST 
PUREST 
BEST 



128 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

moderate oven thirty-five minutes. Beat the whites 
for meringue, add four tablespoons powdered sugar, 
spread on top of pie, and set in oven a few minutes. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Press through a sieve one pint stewed pump- 
kin; beat yolks of four eggs with one scant cup 
sugar till thick. Add one pint milk, the pumpkin, 
one-half teaspoon cinnamon, little mace, ginger, nut- 
meg, and cloves. Stir in the stiff-beaten whites last, 
and bake in rich crust, without cover. 

Apple Charlotte, 

Pare and chop fine twelve or eighteen large 
apples. Mix in a cup of sugar, some cinnamon, and 
currants. Grease generously an iron frying pan and 
arrange almonds around the edge. Line it with a 
dough made of one tablespoon drippings and one 
egg creamed with one-half cup sugar, pinch of salt, 
flour to roll. Let the dough come up on sides of 
pan. Put in some of the apples, then a layer of 
dough and, another layer of apples. Put dough on 
top. Bake one hour and turn out on plate. Sprinkle 
sugar on top. 

Sour Apple Pie. 

Slice six tart apples and sprinkle with cinnamon 
and sugar. Cover pie plate with under crust, add 
apples, two tablespoons water, and cover with a thin 
crust. Bake in a moderate pven for forty-five minutes. 

specially considered in THE 
l*/>-#^ EVENING POST'S inimitable 
f f,/ £ Colored Comic Section. Deliver- 
ed by carrier 30 cents a month. 



Child 



PIES AND PASTRIES 129 

Cocoanut Pie. 

Line a pie plate with puff paste and fill with 
the following custard: Butter size of an egg, creamed 
with one cup granulated sugar, one tablespoon flour, 
three-fourths cup grated cocoanut, one tablespoon 
milk, vanilla, pinch of salt, and the beaten whites of 
three eggs. 

r 

Peach Cobbler. 

Fill a shallow pudding dish with ripe peeled 
peaches, leaving in a few pits to increase the flavor. 
Half fill the dish with cold water, sweeten to taste, and 
cover with a rich pie crust. Bake in a moderate 
oven; serve hot or cold, with cream or wine sauce. 

Apricots or apples may be prepared in the same 
manner. 

Fritter Batter. 

Yolks of two eggs, well beaten; add one-half cup 
of milk or water, one tablespoon melted butter or 
olive oil, one saltspoon salt, and one cup flour, or 
enough to make it almost a drop batter. When 
ready to use, add the stiff-beaten whites. If the 
batter is to be used for fruit fritters, add one tea- 
spoon of sugar to batter. If for meats or oysters, 
add one tablespoon lemon juice instead of sugar. 



WALTER BAKER'S 



COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 
Beit in the World. Hare held the Market 128 Years 



GR[EN-L[VY LIQUOR CO. 



FRED. LEVY, Prop. 



GOODS OF QUALITY 



WHOLESALE 
AND RETAIL 



S. W. Cor. of Van Ness and McAllister Streets 



PHONE MARKET 1367 



filler & Compapo 

Wholesale and Retail 
Dealers in 

POULTRY ^ 
GAME 

SONOMA MARKET 
1524 Polk Street 

Bet. Cilif orau aid Sacrameoto 



Phone Franklin 1263 



S>n Franciaeo, Cal. 



Eatabliihed 1850 



Clias.M.PIuni 
&C0. 

Carpets 
Furniture 
Upholstery 
Oriental Rugs 

and 

Wall Papers 

314-324 Suiter Street 

lust above Grant Avenue 

San Fiandaco, Cal. 



CAKES 



"I reckon do," said Ichabod, "to be at the foundation of 
both music and cake." 



Cup Cake. 

Cream one scant cup butter with one and one- 
half cups sugar. Add four eggs, dropping them in 
two at a time, one-half cup milk, three cups floui, 
two heaping teaspoons yeast powder, and one table- 
spoon mixed lemon and vanilla flavoring. Bake one 
hour. 

Spice Cake. 

Yolks of four eggs, two tablespoons butter and 
one and one-fourth cups sugar creamed, three- 
fourths cup milk, two cups flour, three sticks choco- 
late grated, some sweet almonds grated,' one cordial 
glass rum, juice and grated peel of lemon, one tea- 
spoon each of cinnamon and cloves, three teaspoons 
yeast powder ; last, beaten whites of four eggs. Bake 
forty-five minutes. 

Cinnamon Cake. 

Cream one-half cup of butter and one cup sugar. 
Add one unbeaten egg, a pinch of salt, one-fourth of 
a grated nutmeg, and alternately add one cup of 
milk, two cups of flour, and one and one-half tea- 



Borden's Pioneer Milk 



RICHEST 
PUREST 
BEST 



132 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



spoons of yeast powder. Beat thoroughly for ten 
minutes, then spread in a shallow pan and sprinkle 
with mixed sugar and cinnamon. 

Ginger Cake. 

One-half cup each of molasses, sour milk, and 
sugar, one egg, one tablespoon melted butter, pinch 
of salt, one-half teaspoon each ginger, cinnamon, and 
cloves, one and one-half cups flour, and small tea- 
spoon baking soda dissolved in two tablespoons 
boiling water. 

Walnut Cake. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar stirred to 
a cream, three eggs (stir in the yolks), one and 
one-half cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder, 
one-half cup milk, and one cup chopped walnuts. 
Add the beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in layers 
and put sweetened whipped cream between the 
layers and on top. 

Reliable Cake. 

Yolks of four eggs creamed with one cup of 
granulated sugar, one cup of chocolate dissolved in 
four large tablespoons of boiling water, one teaspoon 
mixed spices, one heaping cup of flour, one teaspoon 
yeast powder, one-half cup chopped citron, vanilla. 
Add the four beaten whites. Bake in two layers. 
Put whipped cream between, or jam, or both, and 
the following boiled icing on top: Two tablespoons 
chocolate, two tablespoons granulated sugar, milk 



SOMMER & KAUfMANN 

Two Storei--119-125GraBt Ave. mr. Geary, 836-840 Market St., nr. Stocktea 



Good Shoes Only 



CAKES 133 



enough to cover. Boil all for twenty minutes, and 
just before removing from the stove add a small piece 



of butter 



Pound Cake. 



One cup butter creamed with one cup granu- 
lated sugar, five eggs added two at a time, then 
one tablespoon brandy, one teaspoon vanilla and 
lemon flavoring, one-fourth teaspoon mace, two cups 
flour, one teaspoon yeast powder. Bake fifty minutes. 

To make a citron pound cake, add to above 
recipe one-half cup flour and one cup sliced citron 
that has been dredged in flour. 

Sponge Cake. 

Cream for fifteen minutes the yolks of six eggs 
and three unbeaten whites with two cups of granu- 
lated sugar. Add the three beaten whites, then pour 
in slowly one-half cup of boiling water, and lastly 
two and one-half cups of sifted flour, one teaspoon 
yeast powder, and one teaspoon vanilla. Bake in 
slow oven one hour. 



Chocolate Sponge Cake. 

Four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, 
one-half cup of chocolate (dissolved in four table- 
spoons of boiling water), one teaspoon baking pow- 
der, one pinch of salt. Cream yolks and sugar, add 
chocolate, then flour, etc., and last the stiffly beaten 
whites. Bake in a slow oven, in a large, shallow 
baking pan, and, after the frosting has hardened, cut 

f\I VH^Df A R1717D Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 

forialeatall good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



134 ^ COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



into small squares; or, if in a spring form, cut the 
cake in half when cold, and spread jam between. 

Frosting. — Two tablespoons of grated chocolate, 
four tablespoons of sugar, three tablespoons of milk, 
butter size of walnut. Boil hard for three minutes, 
remove from stove, beat until thick and creamy, and 
then spread quickly. 



Vienna Prater Cake. 

Cream the yolks of six eggs with one cup of 
granulated sugar. Add three-fourths cup of sifted 
chocolate, three-fourths cup of flour (sifted twice), 
one and one-half teaspoons yeast powder, one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Add the beaten whites. Bake in a 
spring form thirty minutes. When cold, cut in half 
and fill with the following: One cup of milk, yolks 
of two eggs, one cup of chopped walnuts. Boil, stir- 
ring constantly to prevent curdling. Sweeten to 
taste, and after removing from the fire add one table- 
spoon of rum. Spread while hot. 

Bremen Apple Torte. 

Take seven peeled and cored apples, six table- 
spoons sugar, two tablespoons butter, and cook to- 
gether until apples are soft. Cream six eggs; add to 
them one pint of sour cream, one tablespoon vanilla, 
one-half teaspoon cinnamon, and sugar to taste; 
then pour into the cooked apples and let all boil 
together till thick. Remove from stove. Take three 
cups finely rolled zweibach, and in the bottom of a 
well-greased spring form put a layer of two cups 
of crumbs, then a layer of the apple mixture, a layer 

PreBiaio Ave. and Sacramento Street f ■ * r» 

PHONE WEST 4011 I dOy Tight. .' .- 



CAKES 135 

of the remaining crumbs, and lastly lumps of butter 
over all. Bake one hour. 

Black Devil Cake. 

Cream one-half cup butter with one and one-half 
cups brown sugar; add yolks of two eggs. Smooth 
one cup chocolate with one-half cup boiling water; 
add it to mixture; then one-half cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, two heaping cups flour, one teaspoon 
vanilla, beaten whites of two eggs. Bake in three 
layers, and put boiled icing between. 

Dried Apple Cake. 

One cup dried apples, cut fine and soaked over- 
night; add one cup molasses and boil one-half hour, 
then let it cool. Add two-thirds cup butter, one cup 
cold coffee, one cup brown sugar, one egg, three cups 
flour, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cloves and 
nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one cup Sultana 
raisins, one cup seeded raisins, citron and lemon peel 
as desired. Chop raisins and citron fine; add soda 
last, dissolved in little warm water. Bake one hour. 

Sand Torte. 

Cream one-half pound butter with one-half pound 
sugar; drop in, one at a time, yolks of six eggs. Add 
one small wine glass rum, one-fourth pound corn 
starch, and one-fourth pound flour, that have been 
thoroughly mixed; one teaspoon yeast powder, the 
beaten whites of six eggs. Bake one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 



FRECKLES 

C\N BE 

REMOVED 



Baer's Kurtz Freckle Salve poai- 
tiTcly removes frccklei, tan and 
innbiim. Keeps the skin smooth 
and white. Mannfactarcd br 
Bacr Drnc Co. 722 Market St..S.F. 



For Sale by all 
Druggists 

Price 50 Cents 



136 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Mocha Cake. 

Cream the yolks of four eggs with one cup 
powdered sugar. Add one tablespoon cold water, one 
tablespoon coffee extract, one teaspoon vanilla, one 
scant cup flour, one teaspoon yeast powder, and 
beaten whites. Bake in a moderate oven, in two 
layers. Put one-half pint sweetened whipped cream, 
flavored with one tablespoon coffee essence and one 
teaspoon vanilla, and one cup chopped walnuts on 
top and between. 



Orange Cake. 

Three eggs (separated), one cup powdered sugar, 
one-fourth cup of cold water, the juice and grated 
rind of one-half orange, one cup of flour, sifted four 
times, one small teaspoon yeast powder. Bake in 
two layers, in a mpderate oven. 

Filling for the above: One egg, well beaten, 
juice of one-half an orange, grated rind, sugar to 
taste. Boil slowly till it thickens. Remove from the 
stove and add one large grated apple. Spread this 
between the layers and put an unboiled icing on top, 
made of three tablespoons milk or cream and one 
cup of powdered sugar. 

World's Fair Cake. 

One-fourth pound of butter, creamed with one 
and one-half cups granulated sugar and the yolks of 
three eggs. Mix six tablespoons chocolate and three 
tablespoons sugar with two tablespoons boiling milk, 
and add all to creamed eggs. Sift two cups of flour 

J a more elaborately illustrated in 

yyOnin-rtC '^^^ evening post than in 

\J,^f glt/f l^ S'ly San Francisco newspaper. 

San Francisco's one clean newspaper. 




CAKES 137 

three times, mix in two teaspoons baking powder; 
add alternately with one cup of milk. Lastly add the 
beaten whites and one teaspoon vanilla. Bake in 
four layers, and spread with the following filling: 
Stir two small cups granulated sugar and one cup of 
milk, and let stand one-half hour. Then add a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, and let all boil twenty 
minutes. Remove from the stove and beat five 
minutes. 

Lemon Queen Cake. 

Cream three-fourths cup of butter with one and 
one-half cups granulated sugar; add gradually six 
well-beaten eggs, the grated rind of one small lemon, 
one and one-half tablespoons lemon juice, one-third 
level teaspoon baking soda. Bake thirty minutes. 
Leave out a little of the cake mixture, spread in a 
shallow pan, bake, and, when done, cut in squares, 
ice, put blanched almonds on top. 

Icing for Cake. — Stir on the stove, until they 
come to a boil, one cup of sugar and one-half cup 
milk. Then let cook for five minutes. Remove from 
the stove, add one tablespoon vanilla, and beat until 
cool. Spread. 

Plain Bread Torte. 

Cream the yolks of two eggs with one tablespoon 
butter and one cup granulated sugar; add one-half 
cup chocolate and one teaspoon mixed pastry spices 
dissolved in one-half cup of milk, one heaping cup 
flour, one teaspoon yeast powder, one teaspoon 
vanilla, one-half cup chopped citron, nuts and raisins 



WALTER BAKER'S '=°'=°* c'SScolates 

Best in tha World. Hava held the Market 128 Yeavs 



138 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



that have been dredged in flour, and lastly the two 
beaten whites. Bake in a loaf, and cover with a 
chocolate icing. 



Potato Cake. 

Cream two-thirds cup butter with two cups 
granulated sugar; add one-half cup milk, yolks of 
four eggs, one cup hot mashed potatoes, one cup 
chocolate, one teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves, and 
nutmeg, one teaspoon vanilla, one cup chopped wal- 
nuts, two cups flour, two teaspoons yeast powder, 
then beaten whites of four eggs. Bake slowly in two 
pans, and cut in half when cold. Put jam between. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Beat yolks of six eggs lightly, add one table- 
spoon vanilla. In another bowl beat the six whit-es 
with a scant one-half teaspoon cream of tartar. 
Gradually add one cup granulated sugar, sifted three 
times, to the beaten whites. Fold whites and sugar, 
when beaten, into the beaten yolks. Sift one cup 
flour three times, then put into sifter and shake 
lightly into the cake. Bake forty-five njinutes in a 
spring form. 

Blaetter Kuchen, or Cream Puffs. 

One pound of butter (creamed), one pint table 
cream, flour enough to make a stiff dough. Knead 
it well and let stand overnight. Next morning do 
not knead, but roll out thin, cut in squares, and bake 
in a buttered pan. 

Af Vrinr Every night for Thirty Cents. 

^''""'^ THE EVENING POST. San 

LJOOT Francisco's Best Home Newspaper. 



CAKES 139 



Prune Cake. 



Cream two-thirds cup butter with one cup sugar; 
add yolks of three eggs, one teaspoon each cinnamon^ 
cloves, allspice, nutmeg, one teaspoon baking soda 
that has been dissolved in four tablespoons sour 
milk, three-fourths cup flour, one cup chopped, 
cooked prunes, the beaten whites of two eggs, leaving 
one white for cake icing. 

Cream Puffs. 

One pint of water, one-half pound butter, three- 
fourths pound sifted flour, five eggs. Allow water 
to come to a boil ; blend flour with a little water until 
it is sm,oothed; add the butter and flour to the water 
and allow it to boil one minute, stirring constantly; 
take from fire t6 cool; add the yolks of eggs, stirring 
in one at a time, and then add the stiff -beaten whites ; 
drop on buttered paper in large baking pans, a spoon 
at a time. Do not open the door for twenty-five 
minutes — they may fall; have the same heat as for 
bread. When delicate brown, remove and allow 
them to cool. Then open and fill with the following 
cream: One pint of milk, two tablespoons of sugar, 
one egg, one and a half tablespoons of corn starch; 
boil and heat well; add vanilla. 

Jelly RoU. 

Cream the yolks of four eggs and one-half cup 
powdered sugar. Add four tablespoons cold water, 
three-fourths cup of flour, sifted twice. Fold in the 
flour, and lastly fold in thfe beaten whites. Bake in 

GOLDEN GATE COMPRESSED yeast-Ik^ 

{ Cdiei, Etc 
Fresh Daily. All Grocers. Save Labels for Premiums. 



140 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

a slow oven. When done, place cake on a slightly 
dampened towel, spread cake with jelly, then roll it 
and wrap in the towel. 



Strawberry Shortcake. 

One large tablespoon butter, two of loaf sugar, 
one well-beaten egg, two even teaspoons cream of 
tartar, three cups flour, one small teaspoon soda, one, 
cup milk, and strawberries and sugar. Beat the' 
butter with sugar to a cream, add the beaten egg, rub 
the tartar in the flour, dissolve the soda in the milk, 
add it last; bake in a flat pan in a quick oven; when 
done let it get cold, cut it in half, cover one layer 
with strawberries and sugar, lay on the top layer, 
and dust sugar over it. 



Poor Man's Wedding Cake. 

One-half cup butter, one cup brown sugar, four 
eggs (not separated), two cups very dark molasses, 
one cup milk, two teaspoons mixed cloves, cinnamon, 
allspice, and nutmeg, two cups raisins dredged in 
flour, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in a very large pan, and when cool cut in pieces 
as desired. Do not try to remove cake whole from 
the pan. 

Fruit Cake. 

Cream one and one-half pounds butter and one 
pound sugar; add the yolks of twelve eggs, one ounce 
each of cinnamon, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and one 

Sanitary Plumbing and Gas-fitting, Stoves and 
Furnaces repaired. Chimney Tops put on. 
FRED T. KNOLES, 2000 Fillmore Street. Tel. West 1855 



CAKES 141 

pound of chopped citron that has been soaked in 
one pint of brandy one-half hour. Dissolve one level 
teaspoon of baking soda in one-half pint of molasses 
and add part of it, with part of one pound of flour, 
part of one pound of powdered almonds, three pounds 
of currants th?it have been dredged in flour, and, two 
pounds of raisins; then add the remaining flour, 
fruit, almonds, and molasses, and lastly the twelve 
beaten whites. Bake from three to four hours. 

One, Two, Three Cake. 

Sift one heaping cup flour, scant cup sugar, one 
and one-third teaspoons yeast powder into a bowl. 
Drop two eggs into a cup containing one-fourth cup 
melted butter, and then fill the cup to overflowing 
with milk. Flavor to taste; bake in loaf or layers. 

M. L.'s Coffee Cake. 

Three tablespoons butter, melted and creamed 
with one cup granulated sugar; two eggs, dropped 
in one at a time; one cup milk; three cups sifted 
flour; three teaspoons yeast powder. Put melted 
butter, sugar, cinnamon, and chopped nuts on top. 
Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Filled Coffee Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one tablespoon 
butter, three eggs, salt, one teaspoon vanilla, 'one cup 
milk, three cups flour, three teaspoons yeast powder. 

Filling for Coffee Cake. — One and one-half cups 
brown sugar, one teaspoon butter, one and one-half 

^f-if/y§-i-f\f% ^ Q Young Men's, Boys' and Children's 

Incorporated jjg Q^^ ^t. Seh PrancisCO 



142 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

tablespoons cinnamon, one cup. chopped nuts, raisins, 
and citron, two pounds flour. Spread batter on a 
well-greased pan, then put small pieces of butter over 
all, then part of the filling. Repeat until all the' 
mixture is used. Bake thirty-five minutes. 

Cheese Cake. 

Pint cottage cheese, one-half > pint table cream, 
three eggs (separated), one cup sugar, two table- 
spoons melted butter, salt, one tablespoon flour, juice 
and grated rind of one-half a lemon. Line a spring 
.form with a crust made of one cup of flour, pinch of 
salt, one teaspoon baking powder, two tablespoons 
butter, four tablespoons cold water. Mix v/ith a 
knife. Bake cake one hour. 

Blackberry Cake. 

Cream one-third cup butter and one cup sugar. 
Add thf beaten yolks of four eggs, one cup of canned 
blackbe'rries or strawberries, orie teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in three tablespoons sour milk, one and one- 
half cups of flour, and the four beaten v/hites. Bake 
either in two layers, with boiled icing between, or 
bake in shallow pans and, when done, ice and cut 
into squares. 

Grated Pineapple Cake. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, four tablespoons boiling 
water, one cup flour, one teaspoon yeast powder. 
Bake in a large spring form and when cold put the 
juice of a large can of pineapple over cake, then the 



Borden's Pioneer Milk 



RICHEST 
PUREST 
BEST 



CAKES 143 

grated pineapple with the juice of one-half lemon. 
Spread one-half pint of sweetened whipped cream 
over all; decorate the sides with lady fingers that 
have been cut in quarters. On top make a star of 
lady fingers and candied cherries. 

Bred Torte. 

Cream yolks of nine eggs and one large cup sugar. 
Add one-half cup chocolate, one cup grated almonds, 
one tablespoon mixed spices, one-fourth cup citron, 
one-half cup grated bread crumbs moistened with 
two tablespoons claret, one tablespoon brandy, juice 
and rind of one lemon, lastly beaten whites of the 
nine eggs. Bake slowly three-fourths hour, and 
spread chocolate icing on top. 

Almond Cake. 

One pound ground almonds, whites of five eggs, 
three-fourths pound powdered sugar, two tablespoons 
flour, one-half teaspoon yeast powder and a very 
little milk, vanilla. Add the sugar to the beaten 
whites, then the flour, almonds, and milk,! and bake 
in a spring form for one hour. Spread with jelly and 
whipped cream on top. 

Lady Baltimore Cake. 

Cream one cup butter with two cups sugar. /Add 
the beaten yolks of seven eggs and one whole egg, 
one-eighth teaspoon salt. Mix four teaspoons yeast 
powder with three and three-fourths cups flour and 
add alternately with three-fourths cup milk to the 

Phone Weit WOO We'll do the Rest g^ g^ A ■ 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. I i I A I 

2036-2054 O'FARRELL ST. ^-*V^# m^ 



144 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

egg mixture. Add the beaten whites and one tea- 
spoon flavoring. Bake in buttered layer-cake pans 
twenty minutes. 

Filling. — Boil two cups sugar and one-half cup 
boiling water until it is thread-like. Pour it onto the 
beaten whites of two eggs, add one tablespoon flavor- 
ing, and, beat until creamy. Then add one cup 
chopped walnuts and one cup chopped cherries. 

Uncooked Icing, 

One-half cup powdered sugar, wet with a tea- 
spoon vanilla and a little milk. Mix into a paste 
and spread on cake. 

Plain Frosting. 

One cup confectioners' sugar; to this add some 
liquid, either milk or water, to make it the right 
consistency; flavor with vanilla. Instead of the 
water or milk, orange juice can be used. A little 
of the rind must be added. Lemon juice can be sub- 
stituted in place of vanilla. Chocolate melted over 
hot water and added to the sugar and water makes 
a nice chocolate icing; flavor with vanilla. 

Boiled Icing. 

One cup sugar, one-third cup boiling water, 
white of one &gg beaten stiff. Pour water on sugar 
until dissolved, heat slowly to boiling point without 
stirring, boil until, syrup will thread when dropped 
from tip of spoon ; as soon as it threads, pour slowly 

Wr DriDCDTC! 2847 CALIFORNIA STREET 

. r . KUDtK 1 a p^„„, WEST 89, 

Purveyors of Fine Meats 



CAKES 145 

2 

over beaten white, then beat with heavy wire spoon 
until proper consistency to spread. Flavor. 

Caramel Frosting. 

Two-thirds cup sugar, two-thirds cup milk, one 
teaspoon butter, two squares chocolate, one-half tea- 
spoon vanilla. Mix the sugar, milk, and butter. 
Place on the, stove, and when the mixture begins to 
boil add the melted chocolate. Boil fifteen minutes. 



Marshmallow Paste. 

Boil for six minutes three-fourths cup 9Ugar 
with one-fourth cup milk, melt four ounces marsh- 
mallows with two tablespoons hot water, combine 
the two mixtures, and add one-half teaspoon vanilla; 
beat until stiff enough to spread. 

Cream Filling. 

In a double boiler put one and one-half cups 
milk; when it boils, add two teaspoons corn starch 
which has been dissolved in one-half cup milk, one 
egg, one tablespoon sugar; let all come to a boil. 
When cool, flavor with one teaspoon vanilla. 

\ 

Maple Filling. 

One cup maple sugar, one cup white sugar, one- 
half cup water; boil until it will form into stiff 
drops when tested in cold water; cool until slightly 
warm and add two stiffly beaten whites. 

You Miss *^ ^^^ EVENING POST is not a 
, -. J daily visitor in your home. Subscribe 

IVIUCh. now. Thirty cents a month. 



146 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Mocha Filling. 

One-half pound sweet butter, one-fourth- pound 
sugar, creamed. ' Add slowly the yolks of two eggs 
and four tablespoons strong, black cofifee. 

Nut Filling. 

Boil ten minutes one cup chopped nuts, three- 
fourths cup milk, yolk of one egg. Thicken with 
little corn starch; flavor with wine, brandy, or rum. 



BROCK & CO. I ^""^ Presidio Roast Coffee 

^ is a great starter, 3 lbs. 
Grocers ^ for $1.00. Ring up West 4011 



COOKIES 

"Never eat till you have leisure to digest." 

— Oswald. 

My Mother's Cookies. 

One pound of butter and two cups of sugar, 
rubbed to a cream; four whole eggs. and one white, 
flour to make a stiff dough, and two teaspoons yeast i 
powder, a little whiskey. Roll out thin and cut in 
any shape desired. Yolk of an egg mixed with a 
little milk put on top of each cooky, and sugar and 
chopped almonds added. Bake in moderate oven ' 
until brown, cool, and then place in a closed tin box. 

Plain Cookies. 

Half pound butter, half pound sugar, yolks of two 
eggs, one tablespoon brandy, vanilla and lemon flavor- 
ing, flour enough to roll, and one teaspoon yeast 
powder in the first cup of flour. Brush with egg, and 
sprinkle sugar, cinnamon and chopped nuts on top. 

Old-fashioned Oblong Cookies. 

Two cups brown sugar, half cup molasses, one 
cup shredded cocoanut, half cup chopped citron, one 
teaspoon of all kinds of spices, two cups flour mixed 
with two teaspoons yeast powder, half a grated nut- 
meg, add another cup of flour, if needed, roll and cut. 



GOLDEN GATE COMPRESSED YEASTHi 



LifltBrtai 
Rolb 
I Railed 
[ Ctka, Etc 

Freth Daily. All Grocers. Sara Labels for Premiums. 



148 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

!__ 

After »the cookies are baked, frost with the beaten 
white of one egg and powdered sugar mixed, put 
frosting on cookies, and put them back in the oven 
to harden the frosting. ' 

Honey Cakes. 

Two pints honey, one pound sugar, half pound 
almonds, half pound citron chopped iine, grated peel of 
lemon, one pint molasses, one teaspoon ground cloves, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon nutmeg, one 
glass brandy, one level teaspoon hartshorn, flour to 
make a stiff paste, let stand over night. In the morn- 
ing roll out and cut in moulds and bake. While hot, 
brush with boiled syrup of water and sugar and put 
half an almond in center of each cookie. 



Honey Cakes. 

Four eggs, not separated, beaten with one cup 
of sugar., one cup of honey, one cup blanched almonds 
chopped finely, one teaspoon each of allspice, cloves 
and cinnamon, one cup of chocolate, and flour enough 
to make a thick batter, two teaspoons yeast powder. 
Spread very thin on square, buttered pans, bake in 
a hot oven, and when done, spread with a white 
icing, cut into squares, and put a half blanched al- 
mond in the center of each square. 

Leb-Kuchen. 

Heat one cup molasses, mix it with two cups 
brown sugar and three eggs, reserving one white for 

OLYMPIA BbhR «nr*rpa«ed forTuaiity,"u 

for sale at all good groceri 
"ITS THE WATER" --demand it. 



COOKIES 149 

the icing, add one level teaspoon baking soda that 
hasxbeen dissolved in a little milk, then put in alter- 
nately, a little flour and a cup of milk; now add one 
tablespoon of mixed spices, half cup brandy, one 
small cup each of chopped nuts and citron, and lastly, 
flour enough to make a stiff batter. Place in shallovsr 
pans, and bake slowly. When done, cover with icing, 
and cut in squares or strips. 

' Icing for Leb-Kuchen. 

One cup powdered sugar added to the beaten 
white of one egg, flavor with one teaspoon brandy. 

Leb-Kuchen. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup molasses, 
heated, add one tablespoon soda dissolved in cold 
water, remove from stove and add one cup milk, two 
eggs, one cup nuts, one cup citron, two tablespoons 
brandy, flour enough to roll, but instead of rolling, 
spread in tins. Bake in a moderate oven; when done, 
cut in squares, and ice. 

Anise Seed Cookies. 

Four eggs, not separated, but thoroughly beaten, 
then add one and one-half cups granulated sugar, and 
beat for thirty minutes ; add two heaping cups flour 
and fourteen drops of anise seed oil, drop from a tea- 
spoon on well buttered pans, and bake in a moderate 
oven. It will improve them to let them stand from 
one to two hours in the pans before baking. 



WALTER BAKER'S 



COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 
Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



ISO COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Anise Sponge Cake (Toasted). 

Stir yolks of three eggs with one cup sugar 
twenty-five minutes, three tablespoons cold water, two 
teaspoons anise seed, one cup flour, one teaspoon yeast 
powder; last, stiflf froth of three whites. Bake in one 
large pan; when cooled, cut in strips, and toast in 
the oven. 



Sour Milk Cookies. 

Half cup butter creamed with one cup granu- 
lated sugar, two cups flour, quarter teaspoon of bak- 
ing soda, half cup sour milk, add grated cocoanut if 
desired. 



Rocks. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter 
(melted), two and one-half cups flour, three eggs, 
well beaten, one scant teaspoon soda, dissolved in a 
little water, one teaspoon cinnamon, pinch salt, three- 
fourths pound raisins, half-pound walnuts, chopped, 
drop on buttered tins. If cookies spread, add a little 
flour. 

Chocolate Squares. 

Four eggs, not separated, one and one-half cups 
granulated sugar, five teaspoons chocolate, one and 
one-quarter cups flour, one teaspoon yeast powder. 
Bake in a large, flat pan, spread batter, and put 
blanched almonds on top. When done, cut into 
squares. Bake in a moderate oven. 



Phone West 1000 We'll do the Rest 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

2036-2054 O'FARRELL ST. 



COAL 



COOKIES 151 

Cocoa Squares. 

One cup butter creamed with one and one-half 
cups granulated sugar, add well beaten yolks of four 
eggs, four heaping teaspoons cocoa, two cups sifted 
flour, one cup milk, one and one-half teaspoons yeast 
powder, vanilla ; lastly, the four beaten whites. Bake 
twenty minutes in a well greased, large, shallow pan. 
After removing cake from the oven, spread over it 
the following icing, while the cake is still warm : 
Four teaspoons cocoa, dissolved in two tablespoons 
boiling water, one teaspoon vanilla, and one cup 
powdered sugar, gradually added. Spread over the 
top and cut the cake into squares. 

Walnut Wafers. 

One cup chopped walnuts, pour over two table- 
spoons molasses and one teaspoon vanilla, let stand; 
one cup brown sugar, two yolks and one white, five 
tablespoons flour, pinch yeast powder. Mix brown 
sugar and yolks (not beaten), add beaten whites, then 
flour, lastly the nuts. Drop on buttered tins a little 
on the end of a teaspoon. If necessary add more 
flour. 

Walnut Cookies. 

Four eggs, not separated, beaten very light, four 
tablespoons sifted flour, half teaspoon salt, little over 
a heaping cup darkest brown sugar, one pound 
English walnuts, chopped, not ground. Put in un- 
buttered tins. Drop from a teaspoon far apart. 
Bake in a hot oven. 

Presidio Ave. and Sacramento Street f > • i . 

PHONE WEST 4o„ I day right. : : 



152 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, 
half cup water, one tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon 
cinnamon, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in hot water; 
flour for stiff dough. Roll very thin and bake. 



Hermits. 

One cup raisins, one cup butter, two cups sugar, 
one tablespoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, half 
teaspoon soda in tablespoon milk, three eggs, flour 
enough to roll. 



Chocolate Small Cakes. 

The whites of three eggs, beaten very stiff, two 
tablespoons chocolate, a little vanilla, one cup sugar. 
Put on back of stove for a few minutes and then 
thicken with cocoanut (about one-quarter pound). 
Drop from spoon on wax paper and bake in moderate 
oven. 



Cocoanut Puffs. 

Whites of three eggs beaten very stiff, add one 
cup powdered sugar, one tablespoon corn starch, one 
teaspoon vanilla. Steam over water until crust forms 
on sides and bottom. Then remove and mix with two 
cups grated cocoanut. Drop on buttered pans and 
bake in moderate oven. 

Borden's Pioneer Milk i^. 



COOKIES m 

Almond Rings Cookies. 

Three-fourths pound butter, three-fourths pound 
sugar, one pound flour, four eggs, one-quarter pound 
grated almonds, one-quarter pound cut almonds, a 
little yea^t powder, lemon. Cut in rings and dip in 
yolk of egg, mixed with a little sugar ; put cut almonds 
on top and bake. 



Jumbles. 

Half cup butter creamed with one cup granu- 
lated sugar, two unbeaten eggs, one tablespoon milk, 
one slightly rounding teaspoon yeast powder, flour 
enough to make into a soft dough; add the yeast 
powder with the first cup of flour, also some vanilla 
and lemon flavoring. Cut into ring cookies, and bake 
in a quick oven. Sprinkle sugar on the top of each. 

Russian Tea Cakes. 

One cup sugar, two and one-half cups rolled oats, 
two tablespoons butter, two eggs (yolks and whites 
beaten separately), two teaspoons baking powder, 
one teaspoon vanilla, half teaspoon salt. Drop half 
teaspoon on well buttered tin, about two inches 
apart, and bake in quick oven. 

Kindel. 

Two pounds of soup fat rendered a day or two be- 
fore using, three pints flour, one teaspoon salt, two- 
thirds cup granulated sugar, one teaspoon baking 

powder, two teaspoons vanilla, flour. Knead well, 

1 

""ir' VIENNA BARERI "i^-""' 

878 McAllister street 



154 COUNCIL COOK BOOK 

add enough beer to be able to roll. Let it stand two 
hours. 

Roll, cut in long strips three inches wide. Fill 
with the following: One and one-half cups brown 
'sugar, two tablespoons honey, two pounds walnuts, 
chdpped fine, one pound stewed prunes, chopped fine, 
two cups cake crumbs, juice of one lemon, spices to 
taste, few raisins and currants, and little citron, ' 
chopped fine, add a little wine, piece butter; heat a 
few minutes. You may use up remnants of jellies, 
jams, marmalades, etc. Put plenty of filling in center 
of strips, fold over, with a round stick (I use a 
wooden spoon), press the dough firmly three inches 
apart, then with a knife cut them apart. They will 
be the shape of the fig bars you buy. Butter your 
pan, butter the cakes on top, and bake in moderate 
oven. They will keep — the longer the better. 



GOLDEN GATE COMPRESSED YEAST-i 



LiEht Bread 

RnlU 
■tuacd 
(Mat, Etc. 



Fresh Duly. All Grocers. Sava Labels for Premiums. 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 

"My appetite comes to me while eating." 

Table Mustard. 

Beat one egg thoroughly, add two heaping 
tablespoons mustard, a pinch each of salt, cayenne 
pepper and sugar, add five tablespoons vinegar, mix 
thoroughly, let thicken in double boiler, stirring con- 
stantly. 

Catsup. 

Cut up twenty pounds tomatoes, three onions, 
three red peppers, handful salt. Cook until ready to 
strain through a colander, then strain through a 
sieve, and add two cups of vinegar, and one cup of 
sugar, a tablespoon each of allspice, cinnamon and 
cloves, put in a bag, and a little of each ground 
(placing the whole spices in the bag makes the 
catsup a better color). Add cayenne pepper to taste. 
Start in the morning and finish the same day. 

English Chutney Sauce. 

Chop one pound apples, one pound raisins, one 
dozen ripe tomatoes, six small onions, one-quarter 
cup mint leaves. Mill all well, and add one-quarter 

WALTER BAKER'S ™™* ^Scou^r^ 

Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Year* 



156 , COUNCIL COOK BOOK 

cup salt, two cups granulated sugar, one and one- 
half quarts vinegar, boiled and cooled. This sauce 
requires no cooking, but should be kept in a crock 
for ten days. i 

Tomato Sauce (Chili). 

Forty-five large tomatoes, skin and cut into 
pieces, twenty green peppers, twenty red peppers, six 
onions, all cut fine, two tablespoons salt, six 
small cups vinegar, two cups sugar. Mix all together 
and boil two hours, then add one tablespoon each of 
ginger, cloves, cinnamon and allspice, and boil up 
once. 



Watermelon Rind as a Sweet Pickle. 

Boil an ounce of alum in a gallon of water, take 
the watermelon rind that has been peeled and the 
soft part cut off, cut in pieces and put in alum water 
and let stand on back of stove half a day. Remove 
and put in cold water and let stand an hour, drain. 
Boil two quarts vinegar and five pounds brown sugar, 
add two ounces stick cinnamon, one ounce white 
cloves and rinds until tender. Ground spices may be 
used and will give a dark, rich color. 



Musk Melon. 

Cut two melons into slices and pour on enough 
vinegar to cover, let it stand over night and strain 
off in the morning. To one pound of melon take 

nrVHTIDIA DUCD Brewed in Olympia, Wn, 
ULILtJLIA DljJulV un.urpa.sed for quality, U 

for .ale at all good grocer* 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 1S7 

three-quarters pound sugar and let it cook slowly on 
the back of stove till brown, add whole cloves, stick 
cinnamon and whole ginger. 

Gooseberry Relish. 

Cut the brush part from the berry, but leave the 
stem on, wash thoroughly and let drip in colander 
over night. For eight pounds berries prepare a 
syrup of six pounds sugar and three cups water. 
When syrup has boiled till clear put in the berries 
and boil for three-quarters of an hour. Put in jars 
or glasses. 

Gingered Pears. 

Pare, core and cut small eight pounds hard pears 
(preferably the fresh green Bartlett variety), half as 
much sugar, quarter pound Canton ginger. Let these 
stand together over night. In morning add one pint 
water, four lemons, cut small. Cook slowly for three 
hours. Pour into small jars. Seal -when cold. Keeps 
indefinitely. 

Pickled Figs. 

Boil the figs in water one and one-half hours, 
then drain and weigh. To seven pounds fruit use the 
following syrup: Three pounds sugar, one pint vine- 
gar, two ounces whole cinnamon, two ounces whole 
peppers, one ounce cloves, one orange, and two 
lemons, sliced. Boil syrup one-half hour, add fruit 
and boil slowly two hours. 

^fvnffnn ' ^ Young Men's, Boys' and Children's 

Incorporated jjg Geary St. San Francisco 



158 COUNCIL COOK BOOK 

Spiced Cherries. 

Eight pounds white cherries, four pounds sugar, 
half ounce cinnamon, one dozen cloves, four cassia 
buds, a little whole mace tiedHn a bag, one pint wine 
vinegar; let the cherries and sugar stand over night; 
in the morning remove cherries, boil the syrup thirty 
minutes with the spices, scald the cherries and take 
out on a platter to cool, then put back in syrup and 
boil one hour; remove the cherries and add to the 
syrup one pint wine vinegar and boil up. Pour over 
cherries and seal. 



Mint Jelly to Serve with Cold Lamb. 

/ 
Wash and dry two bunches of mint, and steep in 

one pint of boiling water, soak half box gelatine in 

half pint cold water two minutes, add the juice of 

two lemons, one cup of sugar. Pour over this the 

boiling mint, stir until thoroughly dissolved, strain, 

pour into mould, and put on ice to harden. 



Green Tomato Chow-Chow. 

Slice, as thin as possible, four quarts green 
tomatoes, eight large onions. When sliced, sprinkle 
with salt, and let stand over night. In the morning 
pour ofif the water, then put in a saucepan, the , 
tomatoes and onions covered with vinegar. In a bag 
put one teaspoon cloves, two teaspoons dry mustard, 
one teaspoon celery seed, half teaspoon ginger, a little 
cinnamon. Tie bag and put it into saucepan, also add 



Phone West 1000 We'll do the Rest 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

2036-2054 O'FARRELL ST. 



COAL 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 159 

one cup grated horseradish, and sugar to taste. Let it 
come to a boil, add three sliced green peppers, and a 
little black pepper. Boil slowly one and one-half hours. 

Cucumber Relish. 

Peel and chop two large, thin cucumbers, 
sprinkle with salt and let stand two hours, then drain. 
Heat one cup vinegar, one teaspoon sugar, a little 
cayenne, two tablespoons horseradish, three cloves. 
Bring to boiling point, then cool and pour it over the 
chopped cucumbers. Let stand a day before serving. 
I 

Mustard Pickles — Chow-Chow. 

One hundred small pickles, one pound pearl 
onions, one pound string beans, one head cauliflower, 
half pound small red peppers, one handful mustard 
seed. Cut pickles into three, string the beans, and 
break in pieces, break cauliflower, cut peppers, place 
each in separate dishes of water for four hours, then 
at night draw off water and salt each separately and 
generously; next day throw off salt, and mix in stone 
jar. Take half pound strong English mustard and 
stir smooth with cold water, then pour in three pints 
boiling vinegar, put on back of stove and let boil up 
once ; then pour over pickles. Use a jar with a lid, 
and cover with a cloth. 

Cucumbers in Oil. 

One hundred medium sized cucumbers, sliced 
thin lengthwise, add one pint salt, let stand over 
night, drain thoroughly in morning, add two pints 



WALTER BAKER'S 



COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 
Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



160 COUNCIL COOK BOOK 

of sliced onions, then add dressing, consisting of four 
tablespoons black mustard seed, four of white mus- 
tard seed, two of celery seed, one-half pint best olive 
oil, one-half pint of white vinegar. Put cucumbers 
and onions into this, add one teaspoon powdered 
alum, dissolved in a little warm water, add enough 
vinegar to cover it well, let stand three weeks before 
using. 

Salt Dill Pickles. 

Allow fifty medium size pickles to stand over 
night in fresh water; wash thoroughly and in your 
crock, put a la)^r of pickles, two or three green pep- 
pers (cut up), and slice of horseradish root, a little 
fresh dill, another layer of pickles, peppers and dill, 
etc., until pickles are all utilized. The crock should 
not be more than two-thirds full. Cover with plate 
and weight to keep ' pickles from floating. Make 
enough strong salt brine (to which a tea cup orvine- 
gar has been added) to fill crock. Cover pickles with 
brine, and stand near stove for two weeks. Skim off 
the top of brine and keep in a cool place. 



SWAN DRUG CO. p^re^ drugs 

Devisadero and Fulton Sts., S. F. Phone West 3942 



BEVERAGES 



"Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends." 

Boiled Coffee. 

Mix one tablespoon coffee for each cup of water 
and an extra tablespoon for the pot with a clean egg 
shell and a little cold water, and let it draw a few 
minutes. Add the freshly boiling water and boil five 
minutes. 

One Cup of Coffee. 

Put in a saucepan three-quarters cup milk, half 
cup cold water, one tablespoon coffee. Let it boil up 
once and strain into cup. 

Chocolate. 

One quart milk or one quart milk and water, 
about three tablespoons sugar and two squares un- 
sweetened chocolate. Melt the chocolate, add the 
sugar to the hot liquid slowly, boil three or four 
minutes. If sweet chocolate is used, omit the sugar. 

Egg-Nog. 

(Six Drinks.) 

Six eggs, one pint rich milk, six tablespoons 
sugar, half pint best brandy, a little Jamaica rum, nut- 



WALTER BAKER'S ™"°* SJocolates 

Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Year* 



BEVERAGES 163 

meg; beat the six yolks and the sugar thoroughly, 
beat the whites separately, very stiff, mix the beaten 
yolks and sugar with the milk, fill the glasses half 
full with this. Grate in a little nutmeg, put the 
brandy and rum together and divide evenly in the 
six glasses, fill over this the beaten whites, stir but 
very little with a little spoon so as to make the 
whites form into nuggets. 



Frozen Egg Nog. 

Mix half a pound of sugar with eight eggs, whip- 
ping well. Add a quart of milk, a pint each of 
brandy and of rum. Strain. Add grated nutmeg and 
freeze. Serve in sherbet glasses. 



Raspberry Syrup. 

Put any amount of berries into a crock or large 
bowl and stir every morning for seven days. On the 
seventh day strain through a cheesecloth, then put 
the juice on to boil with two cups of sugar to one 
of juice, allow the sugar and juice to boil together 
for ten minutes, let it run once more through the 
cheesecloth and fill into bottles. It does not have 
to be air-tight. 

Raspberry Syrup. 

(This syrup, combined with lemonade, is highly 
esteemed for fever patients.) 

Take the berries just as they come from the mar- 
ket and put them into wooden or stone vessel, add a 

Qs.^^^ ■§•■§■ r\ *%^ €» Young Mei's, Boys' and Children's 

oiraiion s Nothing 

Incorporated^ 136 Geary St. San Francisco 



164 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

little water to them, if possible, rain water, let them 
stand in the sun, open and uncovered, for six to 
eight days, until they stop fermenting. Press them 
very hard two or three times in a fruit press, or if 
not on hand a clean coarse towel will do. To three 
quarts of this juice take nine pounds of granulated 
sugar, boil to a weak syrup. Bottle cold and seal up. 
Will keep for years if stored in a dark and cool place. 

Raspberry Royal. 

Four quarts ripe raspberries, one quart best wine 
vinegar, two pounds sugar, one pint brandy. Mash 
the berries in a stone or granite vessel, add the sugar 
dissolved in the vinegar to the berries, put in the sun 
for about four hours, press out the juice and add the 
brandy. Seal up in strong bottles, keep bottles in a 
lying position in~ a dark and cool cellar. Serve in ice 
water. 

Fruit Punch for 12. 

Two cups sugar, four cups water, one quart 
sparkling table water, one cup fruit juice, one small 
pineapple, shredded, two little baskets strawberries, 
cut up, three sliced bananas, juice of three oranges, 
juice of );wo lemons. Boil sugar and water five 
minutes; add other ingredients and some maraschino 
cherries. 

Fruit Punch. 

Boil one cup sugar, two cups water ten minutes, 
cool, add one-third cup lemon juice, one cup pre- 



WALTER BAKER'S 



COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 

Best in the World. Hay* held the Market 128 Year* 



BEVERAGES 16S 

served cherries, strawberries, or raspberries, and 

dilute with small amount of ice water. Add one 
quart sparkling table water, one sliced orange. 



Jxine Punch. 

Brew a strong tea, place in fancy pot, fill thin 
glasses with shaved ice, use a teaspoon powdered 
sugar, two maraschino cherries, with slice of lime on 
top, pour hot tea over the whole and serve each glass 
on a lace paper doily, placed on dainty china plates. 
This is a soothing outdoor refreshment for a hot 
afternoon. 



Claret Cup. 

One pint claret, one cup sherry, one cup curacoa, 
one cup soda water, jyice of one orange, cucumber 
sliced, sugar to taste. 



Grape Juice. 

Remove grapes from stems; let boil until soft; 
let drip over night; in the morning measure grape 
juice and add one-half cup sugar to every two cups 
of juice. Let boil four minutes, then bottle and seal. 



Orange Punch. 

Two oranges (juice only), one cup sherry, two 
cups sugar, white of one egg. Mix juice, sugar and 
sherry together and heat to the boiling point ; add the 

AARON SHENSON PhoneParkSlSl 
1035 McAllister St. Koshcr McatS 



166 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

well-beaten white ; mix thoroughly and let simmer 
five minutes; strain through muslin, and when very 
cold pour over oranges and bananas cut in small 
pieces and candied cherries. Put fruit in frappe 
glasses and pour the syrup over. 

Strawberry Cordial. 

Pour two quarts rum over five quarts straw- 
berries, let it stand in an earthen jar six or eight 
weeks, then strain ; cook two pounds granulated sugar 
to a syrup, pour into the strawberry juice. When 
cool, fill in small bottles and cork tightly. 

Grape Cordial. 

One-half cup grape juice, one teaspoon lemon 
juice, one-half cup cold water, if the grape juice is 
not sweetened, add sugar to taste, a slice of orange 
or a few of bananas may also be added. 

Maraschino Lemonade. 

The juice of four lemons, twelve tablespoons 
sugar, eight cups water, and one cup maraschino 
liquor and a few cherries. 



WALTER BAKER'S '"^°-' SScou^tes 

Best in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



MARMALADES AND JAMS 



Orange Marmalade. 

Take fifteen out of thirty good-sized oranges. 
^Vith a sharp knife shave ofif the outer skin, being 
careful not to cut into the white. Put the outside peel 
into a chopping bowl and chop fine, then into a little 
water and boil fifteen or twenty minutes until tender. 
Peel the other fifteen oranges, removing the pulp from 
all of them, cut into small pieces, put into a large 
kettle, together with the yellow peeling, juice of eight 
lemons, and sixteen pounds of granulated sugar. Boil 
until almost a jelly, stirring constantly. When cool, 
put into jars. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Twelve large seedless oranges cut in thin slices. 
To each pint of fruit add two pints of cold water. 
Let stand twenty-four hours. Then boil until soft; 
let it get thoroughly cold. To four pints of fruit add 
five pounds of sugar; boil two hours. Just before 
taking from the fire, add the juice of two lemons. 

Orange Marmalade. 

To one pound fruit (sliced) take one quart 
water and allow to stand twenty-four hours. Boil 
slowly for one hour ; set away for twenty-four hours. 

ARCADE PHARMACY TSItV" 

Cor. Poit and Buchanan Sts. phone west 63 



168 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Thoroughly mix one and one-half pounds sugar with 
one pound of this pulp, and boil one and one-half 
hours. Set away to cool. Do not stir while boiling. 

Orange Marmalade. 

One dozen oranges, two and one-half pints of 
water, four and one-half pints of sugar. Slice and cut 
the oranges, pour the water over them, and leave all 
night. Put on to boil the next day, and, when boiling, 
add sugar. Boil between three and four hours. 
I 

Grape Fruit Marmalade. 

Cut six grape fruit into small pieces, after having 
removed skin and all thick, white membrane. Then 
slice into small pieces twelve bananas. Next take the 
juice of four large oranges and three lemons and pour 
over. To every cup of fruit and juice take three- 
fourths cup of granulated ^ugar. Boil three-fourths 
hour. 

Yellow Tomato Marmalade. 

To four pounds of yellow tomatoes add three 
pounds granulated sugar, two large lemons, sliced 
round, one-half of five cents' worth of green whole 
ginger, and add just a little water. Boil steadily one 
hour. 

Apricot Marmalade. 

Five pounds apricots, pitted and peeled ; three and 
one-half pounds fine sugar; one-half pound blanched 
almonds, chopped very fine; put alternate layers of 



rkTVIIlDfi DI717D Brewed in 01ympia,Wn., 

IILLLVIlIA DIJUIV uniurp«..ed for quality, i. 

^-'■^ •■■ '-'-**■ *^^ M^MAMAM.V j^^ ^^,^ ^j ^„ ^^^ grocer. 

"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



MARMALADES AND JAMS 169 

fruit and sugar in kettle and leave overnight. Cook 
slowly, stirring carefully for an hour, or until it is thick 
and smooth ; add nuts, cook fifteen minutes longer, stir- ■ 
ring constantly; pUt in jelly glasses and cover. Deli- 
cious with ice cream or whipped cream. 

Four Fruit Jam. 

Press the juice from six pounds of currants, 
weigh and add to it the same weight each of stoned 
cherries, whole strawberries, and raspberries; put it 
on the fire with two pounds less of sugar than you 
have fruit; skim carefully and boil from ten to fifteen 
minutes. When cool, put in glasses. 

* 

Pineapple and Strawberry Jam. 

Cut into strips the peel of two oranges, shred 
one pineapple and put on to cook well covered with 
water. When tender, add one and one-half boxes 
of strawberries and the oranges cut small, and as 
much sugar as there is fruit. Boil from one-half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Strawberry Jam. 

To every pound of fruit allow three-fourths 
pound sugar, one pint red currant juice to every four 
pounds strawberries. Boil the currant juice with the 
strawberries one-half hour, stirring all the time; add 
the sugar and boil twenty minutes more, skimming 
carefully. Put in small jars and cover with paraf^ne. 
The currant juice may be omitted, but it improves the 
jam. 

Borden's Pioneer Milk B\ 



170 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Strawberry Jam. 

Pick the berries and put one pound of fruit to 
three-fourths pound sugar. Let all stand overnight, 
and in the morning heat to boiling point. Let it 
stand till next morning and again bring to boiling 
point. Stand overnight again, and when brought to a 
boil on the third morning put in jars and seal. 



Strawberry Jam. 

To one pound of fruit take three-fourths pound 
sugar and let stand overnight. In the morning pour 
the juice into a kettle and boil ten minutes ; add the 
berries, and boil twenty minutes longer. 



Quinces and Oranges. 

Cut twenty quinces into small pieces, boil until 
tender, then put on a dish. Grate rinds and squeeze 
out juice of twelve oranges. Add this to the quince 
juice and measure, using equal amounts of sugar and 
juice. 

Mixed Fruit Preserves. 

Five pounds of black cherries, weighed after 
stoning; five pounds gooseberries; one-half box of red 
currants, using only the juice ; one and one-half large 
boxes strawberries. To .every pound of fruit take 
three-fourths pound of sugar. Put on sugar, currant 
juice, and a little water. Let all come to a boil, then 
add the mixed fruits. Boil until fruit is tender. 



Phone West 1000 We'll do the Rest 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

2036-20S4 O'FARRELL ST. 



COAL 



MARMALADES AND JAMS 171 

Pineapple and Apricot. 

Take one-fourth pound pineapple to three-fourths 
pound apricots, chop fruit small, cover with three- 
fourths pound sugar to every pound of fruit. Let it 
stand overnight, then cook carefully about three 
hours. 



White Cherry Preserve. 

Stone cherries, reserve all juice, add three-fourths 
pound to one pound fruit, let boil until thick. 



Apple Jam That Will Keep for Years. 

Weigh equal parts of sugar and sour apples, 
pare, core, and chop fine ; make a syrup of the sugar, 
add the apples, juice and grated rind of three lemons, 
and a few pieces of white ginger. Boil until the 
apple looks clear and yellow ; this resembles foreign 
sweetmeats. Do not omit the ginger. 



Brandied Peaches. 

Make a syrup the same as for preserving; let it 
come to a boil, then skim ; lay in peaches enough 
to cover the bottom of the preserving kettle and cook 
until they are tender and transparent, but not 
"mushy"; take out the fruit with a skimmer and place 
carefully in jars ; crack some of the pits, put in the 
syrup and cook fifteen minutes, or until slightly 
thickened; add brandy, half a cup to each pound of 

WALTER BAKER'S ~^°* c*„"Sco.ates 

Be*t in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



172 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

fruit, and take at once from the fire; strain the hot 
syrup, then pour it over the peaches in the jars and 
seal at once. 

Rhubarb Conserve. 

Chop fine three and one-half pounds rhubarb, add 
three pounds sugar, grated rind and juice of two 
lemons, and set to cook. When the sugar is melted 
and the, mixture is boiling, add one-fourth pound 
blanched almonds, one-fourth pound candied orange 
peel, shredded very fine. Let it boil steadily about 
thirty minutes. 

I 

Quince Honey. 

Four pints of granulated sugar, one pint of 
water; boil together to a syrup. Grate four large 
quinces into this and_ boil twenty minutes. 



Liy^TY/AI nriTD High-Clai» Greet rie».Delicaeie« 
. iVi. W /A.1-. 1 EjIV Wines, Cigari, Drug Sundries 

2799 California Street Phone WEST 540 



CANDIES 



"Sweet are thy sticks and sticky are thy sweets." 

Butter Scotch. 

Two cups of brown sugar, half a cup of vinegar, 
half a cup of water, and a tablespoon of butter. 
Flavor with vanilla. 

I 
Butter Scotch. 

Five tablespoons molasses, four tablespoons 
sugar, four tablespoons water, two tablespoons butter ; 
let boil until, when dropping a little in cold water, it 
is brittle. Put in a pinch of soda before taking off 
the stove, pour on buttered tins, and when cool 
enough, mark in squares. 

Chocolate Fudge. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup of milk, and 
butter size of a walnut. Put on the stove and when it 
comes to a boil add one square of Baker's chocolate, 
grated. When done, remove from fire and add one 
teaspoon vanilla and stir with a spoon until it thick- 
ens. Then pour on buttered tins and when cool 
enough, mark in squares. 






Gloves Cleaned, all lenerths, Ec a Pair 
Monthly contracts for the care of gentlemen's 
clothing. We have just installed the most modern 
plant in the west for Dry Cleanins Ladies' Bainty 
Garments. Blankets, Curtains. Etc. 
Phone West 926. Our wasons will call. 1955 CtesUot SL 



174 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Cream Candy. 

Put in a granite saucepan one cup of water, two 
cups of granulated sugar. Stir until the su^ar is 
nearly melted; then place on the fire and heat slowly, 
but do not stir the mixture. Let it boil fifteen min- 
utes, then try it. If it forms a soft ball in cold water, 
it is cooked enough. Remove from stove and let cool. 
When cool enough to handle, stir it with a wooden 
spoon until it becomes thick and white. Flavor with 
vanilla and shape into round balls. Put walnuts that 
have been halved on each side of the ball. 

\ 

Cream Candy. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of 
water, half a cup of vinegar; boil until it hardens in 
cold water. Flavor with vanilla and pull when cold. 
Do not stir, or it will turn to sugar. 

Panoche Candy. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup milk. When 
they come to a boil, add. pinch of baking soda. Boil 
t-yventy minutes ; add a piece of butter size of a walnut 
before taking oflf the stove. Then beat till cool, and 
spread on buttered platter. Before spreading, add 
cup of walnuts. Cut in squares. 

Cocoanut Caramels. 

Two cups sugar, with enough water to boil it. 
When ready to take ofif the stove, put in one cup 
cocoanut, with a piece of butter. Flavor with vanilla. 

Phone West 1000 We'll do the Rest 

SANFORD G. LEWALD CO. 

2036-2054 O'FARRELL ST. 



COAL 



CANDIES 175 



Molasses Taffy. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, 
one tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of vinegar. 
Boil until it hardens when dropped into water. Take 
off the fire and stir in one teaspoon of soda and as 
many nuts as desired. 

Popcorn Balls. 

Take one cup of molasses, one cup of brown 
sugar, one tablespoon of vinegar, butter the size of 
an tgg; boil until brittle. Pour syrup over two 
quarts of popcorn and make into balls. 

Cream Dates. 

Boil one and one-half cups of sugar and three- 
fourths of a cup of sweet milk ; add one-half teaspoon 
of butter. Boil about ten minutes. Let it cool ; 
when lukewarm, beat, adding a teaspoon of lemon 
juice. When it becomes a soft, creamy substance, 
have ready seeded dates ; fill with this cream and 
serve. 

Candied Cherries, Pineapple, and Other Fruits. 

Boil, but do not stir, one-half pound of loaf sugar 
in one breakfast cup of water. Pit some cherries, or 
prepare any desired fruit, and string them on a thread, 
then dip them in the syrup ; suspend them by the 
thread. When pineapples are used, slice them cross- 
wise and dry them on a sieve, or in the open air; 
oranges should be separated into sections and dried 
like pineapple. 



WALTER BAKER'S 

Beit in the World. Have held the Market 128 Years 



COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 



176 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Maple Caramels. 

One pound sugar, one-half pound maple sugar, 
one-half pint rich cream. Heat slowly, and when it 
begins to boil, add two tablespoons butter and one- 
fourth teaspoon cream of tartar; cook slowly until it 
snaps in cold water. Pour on buttered tins and mark, 
in squares while warm. 

Ice Cream Taffy, 

Two cups sugar, one tablespoon of butter, enough 
water to dissolve the sugar. Boil eight minutes. Add 
one-half teaspoon of cream of tartar and boil seven 
minutes longer. Take from the fire and add one tea- 
spoon vanilla extract and pull until white. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Take of grated chocolate^ milk, sugar, molasses, 
one cup each, piece of butter size of an egg; boil 
until it drops hard; pour on buttered dish, and before 
it cools mark off in square blocks. 

' Peppermints. 

One cup of sugar, moistened with water, and let 
boil five minutes, then flavor with peppermint and stir 
in well. 



OLYMPIA BEER 



Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 
unsurpassed for quality, is 
for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

"For nothing lovelier , can be found in woman than to 
study household goods." 



A Sweet Disposition. 



Three grains common sense, one large heart, one 
good liver, plenty of fresh air and sunlight, one bushel 
contentment, and one good husband. Do not bring 
to a boil. 



Alcohol will remove candle grease. 
Veal requires twenty minutes per pound. 



Never add flavoring extracts until mixtures are 
cooled. 



Lamb requires fifteen to twenty minutes per 
pound. 

One lemon is usually equal to two tablespoons 
of juice. 



r»x M.M. -^ — ' ^ Young Men's, Boys and Children's 

Stratton s ciotting 

Incorporated j^g ^^^^^ ^^ g^^^ Francisco 



178 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



A pinch of salt added to the coffee will increase 
its aroma. 



Clean white ivory knife handles or white marble 
with damp salt. 



To take the taste of onion from knives, etc., slice 
up a raw potato. 



In making corn bread, always have the bowl 
you mix it in hot. 



Roast beef requires ten to twenty minutes per 
pound for roasting. 



Strew the storeroom shelves with a few cloves 
to drive away ants. 



Lamb chops dipped in lemon juice just before 
broiling are delicious. 



Mix a mustard plaster with the white of an egg 
to prevent blistering. 



Salt mackerel can be freshened if it is soaked 
overnight in sour milk. 

BROCK & CO. I ^"^ Presidio Roast Coffee 

t IS a great starter, 3 lbs. 
Grocers ^ for $1.00. Ring up West 4011 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 179 



When frying left-over boiled potatoes, add a 
handful of carroway seed. 



To make a brine for pickling, take nineteen cups 
of water to one cup of salt. 

To prevent flour from lumping, add a little salt 
before mixing with milk or water. 



When broiling steak, try brushing it over with 
butter and flour to keep the juices in. 



A few drops of lemon juice added to scrambled 
eggs while cooking will improve them. 



If freshly cleaned tiles are rubbed over with 
paraffine, they will keep clean for a long while. 



Discolored china baking dishes can be made as 
clean as when new by rubbing them with whiting. 



To blow out a candle, hold it high and blow 
upwards. This will prevent the grease scattering. 



Sprinkle a handful of carroway seed over a roast 
of veal. It gives the meat and gravy a fine flavor. 



Percy J. Meyer Herbert S. Meyer 

HARDWOOD INTERIOR CO. 

INLAID FLOORS Z^^^. 



180 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



A lump of camphor placed in the china closet will 
prevent any silver which may be in it from tarnishing. 



Add a few tablespoons of water instead of milk 
to thin eggs in an omelet. Milk toughens the omelet. 



To remove fly specks from varnished surfaces, 
use equal parts of warm water and skim milk warmed. 



A cloth saturated in gasoline and rubbed over 
porcelain bowls, tubs, etc., will remove dirt like magic. 



Remember when putting meat in the ice chest not 
to place it against the ice. Ice draws the flavor out 
of meat. 



To distinguish good eggs from bad ones, put 
them in water; if the large end turns up, they are 
not fresh. 



To cream butter and sugar easily, warm the 
sugar slightly. This will soften the butter without 
melting it. 



One yeast cake is equal to one teacup of yeast, 
a measurement often used in the older, much-prized 
cook books. 



T C; QT MON ^ » ^- '^^ *^ ^-Ski" Binding 

L.. O. O 1 IVl W 1 > O g jyj^ri^^.^ Fealherbone 

658 Mission Street * De Long's Hooks and Eyes 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 181 



A teaspoon lemon juice to a quart of water will 
make rice very white and keep the grains separate 
when done. 



Add a few~ nasturtium seeds to mixed pickles or 
plain cucumber pickles ; they will keep the vinegar 
clear as sherry. 



If a clove of garlic is kept in salad oil, it will 
give the hint of garlic desirable in salad, and keep 
the oil from getting rancid. 



When baking potatoes, prick them deeply with a 
fork before putting them in the oven. They will cook 
better and quicker for the pricking. 



Always mix cooky dough the night before, as it 
rolls out much more easily, requiring but a small 
quantity of flour when rolling out. 



If by mistake you get a soup too salt, add a few 
slices of raw potato and cook a few minutes longer. 
The potatoes will take up the surplus salt. 



' When mashing potatoes, use hot milk, and if 
you have been in the habit of using cold milk you 
will be surprised at the difference in their lightness. 



Phone West |GNATZ BECK 
198 

Pharmacist and Chemist 
ELLIS and Buchanan Sts. San Francisco 



182 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



When you have a pair of washable chamois , 
gloves, and they shrink, fill them with rice while they 
are wet, and let it remain in them until dry, so they 
will stretch evenly. 

In apple, quince, cherry, or strawberry jelly or 
jam add the juice of one lemon to four cups of the 
juice. This not only makes a firm jelly, but gives an 
excellent flavor. 

Olive oil is injured by being kept in the light. 
When used at the table, it should be put in a dark- 
colored bottle and removed to a cool, dark place 
immediately after the meal. 

Seven pounds of fruit, three and one-half pounds 
of sugar, and a pint of vinegar is the standard pro- 
portion for all manner of sweet pickling. Spicing 
may be varied to suit the taste. 

When you happen to have a few tablespoons of 
jam or jelly left over, try what a delicious addition it 
makes to baked apples, dropping a teaspoon into 
the core of each apple before they go in the oven. 

To take grease from cloth, rub on fabric a paste 
made of fuller's earth and turpentine. ' Rub on until 
the turpentine evaporates and a white powder re- 
mains. This can be rubbed off, and the grease will 
have disappeared. 



BROCK & CO. I ''"S,,::-"*/;^ 

Presidio Ave. ana Sacramento Street f « > r . 

PHONE WEBT40,, I doy Tight. .- .' 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 183 



When making jam, if a clean half dollar is 
placed in the bottom of the preserving pan the fruit 
will not require stirring, and it will keep beautifully 
whole. The coin keeps it stirred by continually 
moving while the water is boiling. 



Putting away "left-overs" in fireproof bowls will 
save the washing of many extra dishes. Pretty Japa- 
nese bowls may be bought, in which small portions, 
left over and worth serving again, may be put when 
first taken from the table. In these same bowls the 
food may be reheated and served. 



If you have skimmed a soup clear, as you 
imagine, and still find floating on it tiny globules of 
fat, whisk across the top of the hot stock lightly a 
piece of clean, white blotting paper or a dab of absorb- 
ent cotton. Touch simply where the fat floats, and it 
will become perfectly clear after a few minutes' 
effort. 



Everything good, too small to utilize in other 
ways, should be put into the soup kettle and ^ould 
be boiled up. A spoon of gravy or rice, any kind of 
vegetables, the bones from roasts, steaks, chops, or 
poultry, the tough ■ end of the steak, the trimmings 
from roasts, steaks, and chops, which will be sent 
with the meat if asked for, — all should go into that 
invaluable soup kettle and will give a stock far richer 
in flavor and more nutritious than if prepared in the 



WAITER BAKER'S "^°^ ^Scolat^s 

Be«t in the World Have held the Market 128 Yeeuri 



184 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



usual way. It will, of course, not do for clear soup, 
but for all others it is excellent. 



Canning Fruit. For four pint jars make a syrup 
of four eups water and two cups sugar and boil fifteen 
minutes. Add the fruit which must not be very ripe 
and cook till fruit is tender. Have the jars very hot 
and fill vsrith the fruit adding the juice till jar over- 
flows. Put on rubber and screw on cover as tight as 
possible. Next day screw them again, as tight as 
possible. 



f\T VMDf A RCP'D Brewed in Olympia, Wn, 
ULlLVJiriA DJjIjIV uii.urpa..ed for quality, U 

for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 185 



Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Melt one tablespoon butter and stir in one table- 
spoon flour. Add carefully one cup of boiling water, 
then season with one-fourth teaspoon salt and a dash 
of pepper. 

Many sauces are made with drawn butter as a 
foundation. For caper sauce add three tablespoons 
capers. 

For egg sauce add one egg, hard boiled and 
chopped fine. 



Brown Sauce. 

Fry one tablespoon chopped onion in one table- 
spoon butter. Add one tablespoon flour, one cup 
soup stock, one teaspoon leriion juice, salt and pepper 
to taste. Strain before serving. 

The following sauces can be made by using 
brown sauce as a foundation : 

Mushroom Sauce: Add one-half cup mushrooms. 

Olive Sauce: Add a dozen olives, chopped fine. 
(For game.) 

Wine Sauce: Add one-half cup wine and one 
tablespoon currant jelly. Thicken with flour. (For 
game.) 



^fVflfffm ^ 9 ^<>^°8 Men's, Boys' and Children's 

Incorporated jjg Geary St. San Francisco 



186 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



Measurement Table. 

Three Teaspoons equal One Tablespoon 

Four Tablespoons equal One-quarter Cup 

Two Cups Granulated Sugar equal '. .One Pound 

Two Cups of Butter equal. One P^ound 

Two Cups of Solid Meat equal One Pound 

Two Tablespoons of Butter, Sugar, or Salt equal 

One Ounce 

One Tablespoon of Liquid equals Half Ounce 



Measure of Liquids. 

Sixty Drops equal One Teaspoon 

Two Teaspoons equal One Dessert Spoon 

Two Dessert Spoons equal One Tablespoon 

Two Tablespoons equal One Ounce 

Two Ounces equal One Wine Glass 

Two Wine Glasses equal One Teacup or Gill 

Two Teacups or Gills equal 

One Breakfast Cup or Tumbler 

Two Breakfast Cups or Tumblers equal. . . .One Pint 

Two Pints equal One Quart 

Four Quarts equal , . . .' One Gallon 



inuM P Hart ^^^ ^^^ fancy goods 

JUnii r. ririivi notions, etc. 

Orders Delivered Immediately 

CALIFORNIA and DEVISADERO Tel. West S444 



PASSOVER DISHES 



Matzo Kloess. 

Soak four matzos in cold water, and after they 
are thqroughly saturated (if not well soaked, they 
become tough and leathery), press out the water, add 
pepper, salt, a pinch of ginger, chopped parsley, and 
half an onion, chopped fine, and browned in a table- 
spoon drippings; beat four eggs, yolks and whites 
together, and add them to the other ingredients; then 
put in enough matzo meal to make the mixture of a 
consistency to be formed into balls; the less meal 
used the lighter the kloess. Put the balls in the 
soup twenty minutes before serving. This recipe can 
also be used for filling poultry. 

Matzoth Shalet. 

Four soaked matzos, six eggs, one cup granu- 
lated sugar, one cup seeded raisins, one tablespoon 
cinnamon, grated rind and juice of one lemon, one, 
handful pounded almonds, and one-qjiarter pound 
rendered fat. Beat the yolks of the eggs, the sugar 
and cinnamon together until very light, then add the 

AARON SHENSON PhonePa,k518I 

1035 McAUister Si. Koshcr Mcats 



188 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

raisins, almonds, lemons and drained matzos, and 
finally the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Melt the 
rendered fat irt the dish in which the pudding is to 
be cooked, then pour one-half of it to the mix- 
ture, and return the whole mass of ingredients to the 
dish. Bake from one and one-half to two hours. 
Serve hot with lemon cream. 



Matzoth Shalet. 

Soak about three matzos, press out every drop 
of water, stir the matzos in a bowl with a tablespoon 
of goose fat and a saltspoon of salt, stir at least ten 
minutes or until it looks like a mass of cream, then 
add gradually the yolks of six eggs, the grated peel 
of a lemon and juice, one-half pound of sifted sugar, 
and last, the beaten whites of the eggs. Have the 
pudding form jwell greased and bake immediately. 
Time required, Vbout one-half hour. Serve as soon 
as taken from oven. Serve with wine sauce. 



Potato Pudding. 

Pare and core eight large apples, put them in a 
pudding dish, and put sugar and cinnamon in them, 
and a little water ; steam very gradually ; when nearly 
done, make the following pudding: Cream the yolks 



OurFavoriteToiletCrcani' 



Boulevard Pharmacy 



A. R. EDGAR 
N. E. Cor. Fnlton and Baker I 

Phone West 3855 SAN FRAHCISCO 



PASSOVER DISHES 189 

of eight eggs with eight tablespoons sugar, add eight 
tablespoons cold, meally boiled potatoes, and the 
juice of one and one-half lemons; lastly, add the 
beaten whites. Pour this pudding gently over the 
steamed apples, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve 
with kmon sauce. 



Matzo Cake. 

Beat together the yolks and whites of four eggs 
with a scant teaspoon sugar and pinch of salt, beat 
until the consistency of thick batter, then add three- 
quarters cup matzo flour. Bake in two layers. Fill 
with cream filling and put chocolate icing on top. 



Chocolate Matzo Cake. 

Beat yolks of eight eggs with eight tablespoons 
powdered sugar for twenty minutes, add four table- 
spoons matzo meal, two large tablespoons chocolate, 
and then the beaten whites. Bake in layers. 

Filling: One cup milk, two tablespoons choco- 
late, small piece butter, yolks of two eggs, one tea- 
spoon corn starch. Let boil. Use whites of eggs for 
icing. 



OLTMPIA BEER 



Brewed in Olympia, Wn., 
unsurpaued for quality, i* 
for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS THE WATER" -demand it. 



190 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 



Pesach Cake. 

Cream together the yolks of nine eggs, and one- 
half pound powdered sugar, weigh one pound wal- 
nuts before shelling; when shelled, grind; to the 
creamed yolks and sugar, add two tablespoons well 
sifted matzo flour, a pinch of salt, and one teaspoon 
vanilla, then mix in the ground walnuts. Fold in 
gently, the nine beaten whites. Bake in a spring 
form, three-quarters of an hour. 



Date Cake. 

Eight eggs, separated, one and one-quarter cups 
powdered sugar, one tablespoon cinnamon and cloves 
mixed, one cup matzo meal, half pound seeded dates, 
cut fine, and the juice of half a lemon. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



Date Torte. 

One and three-quarter glasses of sugar, yolks 
of nine eggs beaten well with sixteen chopped dates, 
a pinch of salt, a little cinnamon and allspice, four 
heaping tablespoons chocolate, a handful almonds, one 
glass matzo flour, four large tablespoons brandy, and 
lastly, the whites of nine eggs beaten to a froth. 



WALTER BAKER'S 



COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 

Best in the World, Have held the Market 128 YeMTS 



PASSOVER DISHES 191 

Lemon Cream. 

Put on to boil the yolks of five eggs, one-half 
cup granulated sugar, the juice of three lemons and 
grated rind of one, and about a brandy glass of water. 
Stir constantly, so as to prevent curdling. When 
it has thickened and come to a boil, take it from the 
range, and add the beaten whites of the eggs. 

Wine Sauce. 

One cup white wine, half a cup water, grated 
peel of lemon, teaspoon potato flour, wet with cold 
water, add the yolks of two eggs, stirring constantly; 
when thick, add the beaten whites and serve. 

Raisin Wine, 

To two pounds of raisins (cut in half, if de- 
sired) add three quarts cold water; either place the 
mixture on a corner of the range and let it simmer 
for two or three days, or boil it until one-third of 
the water has evaporated. A few tablespoons of 
sugar and a handful of stick cinnamon can be added 
if additional sweetness and flavoring are wished. 
When cold, strain through a fine cloth. The strength 
of the wine depends largely upon the quality of the 
raisins. 



OLIMPIA BEER 



Brewed in Olympia, Wn.,. 
unsurpassed for quality, i( 
for sale at all good grocers 
"ITS TDE WATER" --demand it. 



192 COUNCIL COOK BOOK. 

Matzo Pancakes. 

Soak two matzos in water, squeeze dry, add one- 
half cup matzo meal, stir in gradually yolks of five 
eggs, one-eighth teaspoon nutmeg, one-fourth tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon sugar, one teaspoon almonds ; 
stir well, add stiff beaten whites last. If too thick add 
milk. Fry in small cakes in butter. 



Sponge Cake. 

Eight eggs, one and one-half cups granulated 
sugar, one cup mixed matzo meal and potato flour, 
flavoring to taste. Bake in a moderate oven. 



WALTER BAKER'S 



COCOA AND 

CHOCOLATES 

Best in the World. Have (leld the Market 128 Years 



WE CAN SUPPLY YOU 

WITH EVERY ARTICLE 
NECESSAlY TO MAKE 
ANY RECIPE IN THIS 
BOOK A SUCCESS. 

A GOOD COOK must have (rood 
groceries to prepare a health- 
ful and appetizing repast. 

I. D. MclEAN COMPANY 

GROCERS 

llSS-1168 SUTTER STREET 

Near Polk 

Phone Fruklia Z818 Private Exchann 




Factory and 0«ice— KANSAS AND DIVISION STREETS 
General Office— 268 MARKET STREET 

PURE DISTILLED WATER 

Daily Deliveries— One and Five Gallon Bottles with Tilting 
Crates, Water Stands and Coolers. 



Representative virill call on Request 

Phone Market 1164 



San Francisco, Cal. 



Telephone Kearny 5852 



San Francisco Compressed Air 
Cleaning Company 



Blue ^iVagon Service 



Office 24 Montgomery Street 



Send Postal or Ring Us Up and we will be 
pleased to {umisk you witnout charge an 
estimate for cleaning your house. : 



Talepkona Wait 7040 

The Lion Pharmacy 

OTTO RAUCHFUSS, Prop. 

CHEMIST and DRUGGIST 

Deutsche Apotheke 

Cor. Pott and Gough Sts. San Francisco 



Subscribe for the 

Jewish Times 

264- Pacific Buildins 

The OLDEST JOURNAL on the PAGIfIC (OAST 

Now in its 55th year of continuous publication 

•* 

Subscription twenty-five cents per month 



NotUns srowine ao in popularity 

CANDY 

The liiest Made and Absolutely Pare 

(uruM by lossehr i Wassengu, he, ttitt 
Uu NiGoul Pure M ind Dnp Act if Mf 30, 
IMt. 

47 KEARNY STREET ^ 

PhoHm Doutla* 232 and 401 1 * 



Sorensen Co. 

Reliable Jewelers 
and Opticians 

Eyes 
Examined 

FREE by Expert Optician 

I4K, I8K, 22K Weddinc RInst 

All Watch Repalrinc warranted for 
2 years. 

715 Market St., next Call Bids. 
2593 Mission St., near 22d. 





OAKLAND 



®rtb«itp 



Largest and Best 

Evening Newspaper 

On the Pacific Coast 



Every Evening and Suriday 
Morning 



W. E. DARGIE, Publisher 



Tel. West 

227 



J. Saneuinetti 
Prop. 



3. ^attguttt^tlt 

Imported and Domestic 

GROCERIES DELICACIES 

WINES LIQUORS 

CORDIALS 

1736 DeTiaadero Street 

San FranoiioOf Gal. 



L, Harris 



Phone Park 626 



Prescriptions Carefully 
Compounded 

1429 HAIGHT STREET 

San Francisco, Cal. 



Tel. Park 946 

WtBttttdh'B 

Bakery, Confectionery and 
Reftaurant 

FANCY TORTEN 

BIRTHDAY CAKES 

WEDDING CAKES 


Tel. West 29 

Stall FeJ 

Meats 


1530 HAIGHT STREET 


3035 SACRAMENTO STREET 


Bet. Aikbury and Qayton 


San Francisco 



E000 lr00 



CLOTHIERS 

TO 

MEN-WOMEN-CHILDREN 



TRUNKS 
LEATHER GOODS 



S000 Ir0j0. 



BALDWIN 



JEWELRY f*te,4 
COMPANY 



1261 VAN NESS AVE. 
at Sutter San Francisco 



If jrou can't come— telephone. PhoH 

U you let it at BRENNER'S WEST 

-lit Good. 2T1-Zn 



BRENNER BROS. 

SUCCKSSORSTO J. ISACBON 

DRUGGISTS 

8. W. Cor, Qeary and Octavis Stt. 
San Francisco 



TELEPHONE WEST 1944- 



HOLJE CATERING CO. 



1901 PIERCE STREET 

AT PINE 



Dishes, Chairs, Tables, Linen and Silver Rented 

Parlors Rented for Social Functions 

CALIFORNIA CAFE 

BAXERY,CONF[CTI0NERY,COFF[E <» OYSTER HOUSE 



lost and 
Ice Cream 



""' ""^'s^'Sas SODA FOUNTAIN 
POWELL STREET, between Ellis and Eddy 



1624-1626 ELLIS STREET 

HAUB BROS., Proprietors 



Phone Park 
336 



Park Floral 

Cut Flowers, Plants, Etc. 
R. GROVES, 

Prop, 
1437 HAIGHT STREET 

■ ■T. IMBONIC AVI. AND ASHBURV ST. 

SAH FRANCISCO. CAL. 

Qreen-Houtes In Rear 



Phone Doucla* 3094 



K.MAX 

Ladies Tailor 
Habit Maker 

222 POWELL ST. 

Near O'FaircU 



the famous 

Maxins Shirt Waists 

our spscialtv 



TELEPHONE WEST 793 Wishin; CalM for ami DeOvtRd b 

SAN fRANCISCO 
OAKUND 

AlANEDA 

BfRKEUY 

mUlIYAU 

San Francisco Laundry 
Association 

Oakland Offiem, SIS BROADWA Y 

T0l. Oakland 1917 1408 TURK STREET 

Wm. F. Kratz Phone West 70 P. LMcljme 

Longfellow Market 

••*• Dealers in all kinds of Choice Meats ••■• 
2234-2236 FILLMORE ST., bet. Clay and Sacramento 



WEST30B 



L. Lorenzini & Co. 



Fruits and Vegetables, Game, Poultry and Eggs 
Finest Lucca Oil 

Phone Market 2716 

Dairy Delivery Co. 

WHOLESALE Milk and Cream RETAIL , 
Butter and Eggs \ 

Main Depot and Office 3S50-3S70 19th St. 



mmil and COMPANY 

The Leadine Druggists 
of San Francisco 

Will open their new store at 

POWELL and ELLIS STS. 

shortly 



You know the quality 

[ALWAYS THE BEST] 



Phone Wemt 5499 

S. BIEDERMAN 

Bakery and Confectionery 

5. W. Corner 
ELLIS and WEBSTER STS. 

AUKindief 

Bread, Cakes, Pies aad Pastry 

CoBftantly on HukI 
AO oidBri for Wed(]iDgi uicl,P«lli« will 

TWXfn pWJBH)! <lte l lllOP 



S. & G. Gump Company 

European, Japanese and Chinese Fine Arts 

China and Glassware Mirrors and Framing: 

Paintings Statuary 

246-268 POST STREET 

Phone Douglas 700 San Francitco 

PAEIS BERLIN FLORENCE YOKOHAMA CANTON 



Ransohoff^s 

The new store on Post Street between Grant 
Avenue and Stockton will be opened about 
August 23d, 1909, with a complete collection 
of Gowns, Suits, Waists and Coats. 



EMANUEL 



The Jewish Family Paper of the Pacific 
Coast States prints the news appertain- 
ing to the Jews and Judaism from all 
over the world. Mail your sbuscription 
[two dollar^ per annum] to 

EMANU'EL 

340 Sansome Street San Francisco 



iCD 



■«T 


§ CD 


_l "^ 



iO) 



ICO 



