




fflflW 



lyjM. 



ikilL 



: w 





Pis' 



V 






. 




^ 






CHARLES S.PRATT 

New and Old Books 

161 6th Ave. N. Y. 

ANY BOOK YOU WANT 




/ 






BOSTON 
PUBLIC 
LIBRARY 




3^5 

Foreign Dishes 



A Foreign Dish for every- 
day in the year 




CHARLES S PRATT 

New ana Old Books, stationery, Blank Books, 

161 SIXTH AVE., [Neari2thst.] NEW YORK, 

WRITE ME FOR ANY BOOK YOU WANT, CATALOGUES FREE. 



Copyright, 1908, by 

George W. Jacobs & Company 

Published September, igo8 




All rights reserved 
Printed in U. S. A, 



JANUARY. 




i.— Austrian Goulasch. 
Boil 2 calves' heads in salted water until 
tender; then cut the meat from the bone. 
Fry i dozen small peeled onions and 3 
potatoes, cut into dice pieces; stir in 1 
tablespoonful of flour and the sauce in which 
the meat was cooked. Let boil up, add the 
sliced meat, 1 teaspoonful of paprica and salt 
to taste ; let all cook together fifteen minutes 
then serve very hot. 

2. — East India Fish. 

Slice y 2 pound of cooked salmon; then 
heat 1 ounce of butter in a stew-pan ; add 2 
small onions chopped fine, 1 ounce of 
cocoanut, 2 hard-boiled eggs chopped. Let 
cook a few minutes, then add 1 pint of milk ; 
let boil up once. Add the fish, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of curry paste, 1 teaspoonful of paprica 
1 





January 





and salt to taste. Let cook a few minutes, 
then stir in i large tablespoon ful of boiled 
rice. Serve very hot with toast. 

3.— English Gems. 
Cream 1 cup of butter with 2 cups of 
brown sugar ; add 4 beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon - 
ful of soda dissolved in 1 large cup of strong 
coffee, 1 cup of molasses, 4 cups of sifted 
flour, y<i teaspoonful each of nutmeg, allspice, 
cloves and mace, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar sifted with y 2 cup of flour, 1 cup of 
raisins, y^ cup of currants and chopped 
citron. Mix well and fill buttered gem pans 
y 2 full and bake until done. Then cover 
with chocolate icing. 




4.— Turkish Pudding. 

Dissolve y 2 box of gelatin ; chop y, pound 
of dates and mix with 2 ounces of boiled 
rice, y% cup of pulverized sugar and 1 tea- 
spoonful of vanilla ; then mix the gelatin 
with 1 pint of whipped cream. Mix all well 
together and turn into a mold and stand on 
ice until cold. Sprinkle with chopped nuts. 
Serve with whipped cream. 




January 



5. — Chinese Chicken. 
Cut a fat chicken into pieces at the joints ; 
season with all kinds of condiments ; then 
put in a deep saucepan. Add some chopped 
ham, a few sliced bamboo sprouts, 1 chopped 
onion and a handful of walnuts. Cover with 
hot water and let stew slowly until tender. 
Add some Chinese sauce and parsley. Serve 
with shredded pineapple. 




6. — Scotch Scones. 

Sift \y 2 pints of flour ; add a pinch of salt, 
1 teaspoon ful of soda mixed with 1 pint of 
sour milk. Mix to a soft dough. Lay on a 
well-floured baking-board and roll 1 inch 
thick. Cut with a round cake-cutter and 
bake on a hot greased griddle until brown on 
both sides. Serve hot with butter. 




7. — Egyptian Meat Balls. 
Chop 1 pound of raw beef; season with 
salt, pepper and 1 teaspoonful of curry- 
powder ; add 2 stalks of chopped celery, 
1 small onion and some chopped parsley. 
Mix with 2 beaten eggs and y 2 cup of bread- 
crumbs, and make into small balls. Let 
3 








January 

cook in hot butter until tender. Serve on a 
border of boiled rice and pour over all a 
highly seasoned tomato- sauce. 

8. — Austrian Potato Dumplings. 

Peel 5 potatoes and boil whole in salted 
water until tender. Drain, let get cold, then 
grate them and mix with 4 eggs and 1 ounce 
of butter; add salt to taste. Mix well; add 
flour enough to form into dumplings and fry 
in deep hot lard until brown. Serve hot with 
cooked fruit. 

9. — Belgian Rice Dessert. 

Cook 1 pint of milk ; add y cup of 
boiled rice and some currants ; stir in the 
yolks of 2 eggs well beaten with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Remove from the fire. 
Add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla; then form into 
cylinders. Dip in beaten egg and fine 
bread-crumbs and fry a golden brown. 
Sprinkle with pulverized sugar and put some 
red currant jelly on top and serve. 

10. — Bavarian Pear Pudding. 

Soak y? loaf of bread and press dry. 
Mix with y, pound of chopped suet ; add a 
4 




January 

teaspoonful of salt, i cup of sugar, 2 eggs 
and the grated peel of a lemon, a pinch of 
cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Add some 
sifted flour j mix well, and form into a large 
ball. Then peel 1 quart of pears. Cut in 
half, and lay in a large saucepan a layer of 
pears ; sprinkle with sugar, dnnamon and 
grated lemon peel. Lay in the pudding ; 
cover with a layer of pears and pour over all 
3 tablespoonfuls of syrup. Fill with cold 
water and boil half an hour ; then bake three 
hours and serve hot. 



11. — French Pineapple Bisque. 
Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cup of 
pulverized sugar; add 1 pint of cream; stir 
well until very light. Then add 1 small can 
of shredded pineapple and crush a few 
macaroons. Mix well with a small glass of 
brandy. Let freeze and serve in small 
glasses. 

12. — Russian Pancakes. 
Make a pancake batter and fry in thin 
cakes. Then spread them with a layer of 
anchovies, butter and a layer of caviare. 

5 









January 

Sprinkle with minced shallots, cayenne pep- 
per and lemon-juice. Roll up and serve hot 
as possible. 

13. — Egyptian Cabbage. 

Parboil a cabbage in salted water ; drain 
and stuff with chopped cooked mutton. Mix 
with chopped ham, 1 onion and 2 sprigs of 
parsley chopped fine. Add y^ cup of cooked 
rice, salt and pepper to taste. Place in a 
buttered baking-dish ; sprinkle with bits of 
butter; add the juice of a lemon, and let 
bake in a moderate oven until done. Baste 
often with butter and serve hot. 

14. — Madras Baked Fish. 

Season a fish with salt, pepper, some grated 
green ginger and curry-powder. Place in a 
baking-pan with 1 sliced onion, 2 chopped 
green peppers and 1 sprig of parsley. Pour 
over some water and hot melted butter; 
sprinkle with flour and bake until done. 
Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. 

15. — Norwegian Salad. 
Cut some pickled herring into pieces and 
mix with flaked lax. 2 peeled apples and 2 
G 




January 

boiled potatoes. Cut into dice pieces ; add 
some chopped shallots and gherkins; sprinkle 
with finely minced tarragon and chervil, salt 
and pepper. Cover with a plain salad 
dressing. 

16. — Dutch Eggs. 
Heat some butter in a pan ; then break in 
as many eggs as needed and fry them ; add 
some sliced onions. Remove the eggs to a 
platter; arrange the onions on the eggs; 
sprinkle with salt and red pepper and pour 
over some lemon-juice. Serve as hot as pos- 
sible on toast. 

17. — Bavarian Wine Soup. 
Mix 3 pints of red wine with 1 pint of 
water. Add sugar, nutmeg and cinnamon to 
taste and the grated peel of half a lemon. 
Let come to a boil ; then stir in the yolks of 
2 well-beaten eggs. Do not boil again. 
Serve hot with biscuits. 

18.— English Stuffed Goose. 

Season a fat goose with salt and pepper, 
and rub well with vinegar. Then core small 
apples and fill the goose with the whole ap- 

7 









January 

pies. Put in the baking-pan, sprinkle with 
flour ; pour over i cup of hot water j add a 
lump of butter and bake until done. Baste 
often with the sauce in the pan. Serve the 
goose with the whole apples. 

19.— Vienna Peach Torte. 

Make a rich pie-dough ; then line a pie- 
dish with the dough. Pare and remove the 
stones from the peaches and cut into quar- 
ters. Lay closely on the pie ; sprinkle with 
brown sugar and moisten with wine. Bake 
in a moderate oven until done. Then spread 
with a meringue and let brown in the oven a 
few minutes. 

20. — Egyptian Meat-Pie. 

Line a large baking-dish with pie-dough. 
Have ready y 2 pound of calf's liver chopped, 
and y 2 pound of fresh pork chopped fine. 
Season highly and mix with y 2 cup of butter, 2 
green peppers, 1 onion chopped and ^ can 
of chopped mushrooms. Moisten with a 
glass of sherry. Fill the dish with the mix- 
ture and cover with the dough. Let bake 
until done and serve hot. 
8 







January 

21. — Russian Boiled Fish. 

Clean and season a whole fish and let boil 
with i sliced onion, x / 2 cup of vinegar, a few 
slices of lemon and 2 sprigs of parsley. Add 
a tablespoonful of butter and let cook until 
tender. Remove the fish to a platter ; mix 
the sauce with 1 tablespoonful of brown 
sugar, a pinch of ginger, cinnamon and nut- 
meg and the juice of a lemon. Let boil well ; 
then thicken with the yolks of 2 beaten eggs 
and pour over the fish. Serve cold. Gar- 
nish with lemon-slices and olives. 

22. — Spanish Cake. 
Beat 1 pound of butter with 1 pound of 
sugar to a cream. Add the yolks of 8 eggs 
well beaten. Sift 1 pound of flour with 2 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and stir to- 
gether with 1 cup of milk. Add the whites 
of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with a pinch 
of salt. Flavor with rose-water. Bake in a 
moderate oven until done. 

23.— Vienna Stewed Carrots. 
Peel some carrots and cut in small pieces. 
Boil in salted water until tender; drain. 
9 






January 




Brown i tablespoon ful of flour in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter; add y 2 cup of the water 
in which the carrots were cooked, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and a little sugar. Let 
all boil ; then add the carrots and 1 cup of 
cooked peas, some chopped parsley and a 
pinch of pepper. Simmer ten minutes and 
serve hot. 

24.— Russian Fish-Roll. 

Chop some cooked trout and white fish, 
and mix with x / 2 cup of boiled rice. Season 
with salt, pepper and all kinds of herbs 
minced fine. Then make a rich pie-paste 
and roll out very thin. Fill with the mix- 
ture and make into a roll. Sprinkle with 
bits of butter and Let bake until brown. 
Serve hot with wine-sauce. 




25.— India Curried Eggs. 

Cut hard-boiled eggs in halves; then fry 
1 small chopped onion and 1 chopped apple 
in hot butter ; add % cup of pounded 
almonds and 1 pint of milk, mixed with y z 
tablespoonful of cornstarch. Season with 
salt and a dessertspoonful of curry-powder. 
10 




January 

Let cook ten minutes ; then add the eggs. 
Let all get very hot. Serve with croutons ; 
garnish with fried parsley. 



26. — Codfish a la Lyonnaise. 

Cut cold boiled codfish in pieces ; then 
boil 8 small onions until soft ; heat 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Add the boiled onions, 
2 small cold sliced potatoes, the codfish and 
1 cup of milk ; sprinkle with pepper. 
Cover and simmer ten minutes and serve 
hot. 




27. — Jewish Crebchen Soup. 

Beat 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of water 
and a pinch of salt ; then add enough flour 
to make a stiff dough. Work it well with 
flour and roll out as thin as possible ; fold 
it double and cut into square pieces and fill 
with minced cooked chicken or veal. 
Sprinkle with chopped parsley and bits of 
butter ; fold in the edges. Have ready 
some soup stock ; when boiling, add the 
crebchen and let boil until done. Serve 
with the soup. 

11 





January 




28.— French Veal Souffle*. 

Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Mix 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour until smooth ; 
add 1 cup of milk ; let boil up. Then add 
1 cup of minced veal, some parsley, salt, 
pepper and nutmeg to taste. Stir in the 
yolks of 2 eggs. Remove from the fire ; let 
cool. Beat the whites to a stiff froth ; add 
to the meat. Put in a buttered baking-dish 
and bake twenty minutes. Serve at once. 




29. — Belgian Potato Salad. 
Slice cold boiled potatoes very thin and 
mix with chopped celery and onion ; season 
with salt and pepper. Then mix the yolks 
of 2 hard-boiled eggs with 1 tablespoonful of 
olive-oil. Add to the salad with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and serve. 




30 — Polish Stewed Tongue. 

Cook a fresh tongue until tender ; skin 
and slice thin. Put a large spoonful of 
butter in a saucepan ; add a chopped onion ; 
let brown. Then stir in 1 tablespoonful of 
flour ; add 2 cups of the water in which the 
12 




January 



tongue was cooked, a pinch of nutmeg and 
cinnamon. Let boil with the juice of i 
lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 1 
tablespoonful of sugar. Add the sliced 
tongue and simmer ten minutes. Serve hot 
or cold. 

31. — Rissotto (Italian). 
Boil 1 cup of rice in salted water until 
soft ; drain. Then grate Parmesan cheese 
and cover the rice with cheese. Let steam 
in the oven a few minutes ; then pour over 
some highly seasoned tomato-sauce, and 
serve hot with fried veal chops. 









FEBRUARY. 



i. — Oriental Canapes. 

Take some lobster or crab- meat and pound 
in a mortar. Mix with i tablespoon ful of 
butter ; season with salt and pepper, a pinch 
each of mustard, cayenne, nutmeg and curry- 
powder and moisten with lemon-juice. 
Cut small rounds of toasted bread; scoop 
out some of the centre ; fill with the mixture 
and cover with a curry sauce. Sprinkle 
with fine bread-crumbs and let bake in the 
oven a few minutes. Serve hot. 

2. — Haggis (Scotch). 
Chop a sheep's tongue, liver and heart 
and i pound of bacon. Add 2 large 
chopped onions ; season with ^ teaspoonful 
of red pepper and 1 teaspoonful of mixed 
herbs and salt to taste. Mix with 1 pint of 
toasted oatmeal, 2 beaten eggs and the grated 
14 



February 

rind and juice of a lemon. Then clean the 
pouch of the sheep and fill with the mixture. 
Lay in boiling water and let boil three hours. 
Serve with apple-sauce. 

3. — Austrian Braised Tongue. 
Boil a large fresh beef tongue in salted 
water until tender. Remove the tongue and 
lard it with thin strips of bacon ; sprinkle 
with paprica ; lay in a baking-pan ; add 1 
onion sliced thin and 1 cup of the water in 
which the tongue was cooked and pour over 
1 pint of cream. Let bake in a moderate 
oven. Baste often with the sauce. Serve 
hot, and pour over the sauce ; garnish with 
parsley. 

4. — Russian Omelet. 
Chop 2 shallots with a little parsley and 
cook in hot water. Add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of caviare and a teaspoon ful of lemon-juice ; 
season to taste. Beat 4 eggs with 1 table- 
spoonful of cream, salt and pepper, and fry 
in an omelet-pan with hot butter until done. 
Put the mixture in the centre ; turn in the 
ends and serve at once. 
15 









February 

5. — Madras Potato Curry. 

Cut boiled potatoes into thin slices ; then 
fry 1 chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Add 3 ounces of grated cocoanut, 
1 teaspoonful of curry-powder and 1 cup of 
milk, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 
Let boil up. Add the sliced potatoes and a 
sprig of parsley chopped. Let simmer a few 
minutes and serve hot. 

6. — Swiss Baked Eggs. 
Melt 1 ounce of butter in a baking-pan ; 
then cover the bottom of the pan with thin 
slices of Swiss cheese. Break in 6 eggs ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Pour over 4 
tablespoonfuls of cream ; sprinkle with grated 
Swiss cheese, and let bake in the oven to a 
delicate brown. Serve hot. 

7.— Jewish Stewed Shad. 

Clean and cut a shad into large slices; 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and ginger. Put 
on to boil with 1 sliced onion, 1 bay-leaf, a 
few cloves, 2 sprigs of parsley and y 2 CU P of 
vinegar. When done, remove the fish to a 
platter ; add x / 2 cup of raisins, 1 tablespoonful 
16 




February 

of butter, y 2 cup of pounded almonds, i 
glass of wine, i tablespoon ful of brown sugar 
and a pinch of cinnamon. Let boil until 
done and pour over the fish. Garnish with 
sliced lemon and sprigs of parsley and serve 
cold. 

8.— Bombay Spinach. 

Boil the spinach in salted water until 
tender ; drain and chop fine. Fry i chopped 
onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; add the 
chopped spinach, a pinch of pepper and 
curry-powder. Cover and let simmer five 
minutes. Serve on a platter with stewed 
prawns and garnish with croutons. 

9. — Spanish Fricasseed Shrimps. 
Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; add 1 
onion chopped and 2 cups of tomatoes. Let 
fry ; then stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour ; 
add y 2 cup of water ; let boil ; add 1 quart 
of shrimps, salt, pepper and parsley. Let 
all cook twenty minutes. Stir in the yolk of 
an egg. Remove from the fire. Put some 
boiled rice on a platter; add the shrimps 
and pour over the sauce. Serve very hot. 
17 






February 




io. — Irish Baked Potatoes. 
Peel and boil potatoes in salted water until 
tender; drain and mash with a lump of but- 
ter. Put in a well-buttered baking-dish a 
layer of the potatoes and a layer of fried 
bread-crumbs until dish is full. Moisten 
with beaten eggs, well seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and 3 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Put in the oven to brown. Serve with boiled 
fish. 




11.— Russian Stewed Chicken. 

Cut a fat chicken into pieces at the joints 
and let stew, well seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Then add some small whole onions, 
some cauliflower, mushrooms and 1 cup of 
French peas. Let all cook until tender ; 
then serve hot on a large platter. 




12. — Dutch Baked Mackerel. 

Place the mackerel in a baking-dish ; 
sprinkle with pepper and chopped parsley. 
Cover with fried bread-crumbs and bits of 
butter, and moisten with cream. Then bake 
until brown on top and serve hot with stewed 
potatoes. 

18 




February 



13. — Polish Roast Mutton. 

Season a leg of mutton with salt, pepper 
and a pinch of cloves. Lay in a baking- 
pan with 1 sliced onion, 2 celery roots, 3 
cloves of garlic and 2 carrots cut fine, 1 
bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme and a few pepper- 
corns. Pour over 1 cup of vinegar and 1 
cup of hot water. Dredge with flour and let 
bake in a hot oven. Baste often with the 
sauce in the pan until nearly done; then add 
1 pint of sour cream and let bake until done. 
Thicken with flour ; boil up and pour over 
the roast. 

14. — Italian Sugar Cakes. 
Beat \ l /2 pounds of sugar and y 2 pound 
of butter to a cream ; add 4 yolks of eggs, a 
pinch of salt and nutmeg. Stir in y 2 pound 
of flour, 4 ounces of currants, 2 ounces of 
chopped almonds, 1 tablespoonful of citron 
and candied orange peel chopped fine. Add 
the whites beaten stiff and bake in small well- 
buttered cake-tins until done; then cover 
with a thin icing. 

15. — Oriental Stewed Prawns. 
Clean and pick 3 dozen prawns. Heat 





^3H3£ 





February 




some dripping in a large saucepan ; add the 
prawns, i chopped onion, salt, pepper and i 
teaspoonful of curry-powder. Add i pint of 
stock and let simmer half an hour until 
tender. Serve on a border of boiled rice; 
garnish with fried parsley. 





16. — Swiss Steak. 

Season a round steak with salt, black 
pepper and paprica; dredge with flour and 
let fry in hot lard on both sides until brown. 
Then add some sliced onions and moisten 
well with tomato-sauce. Cover and let sim- 
mer half an hour. Serve hot on a platter 
with mashed potatoes. 

17. — Berlin Herring Salad. 

Soak the herring over night ; remove the 
milch and mash fine. Cut off the head, 
skin and bone j chop the herring ; add 
chopped apples, pickles, potatoes, olives 
and capers. Put in the salad bowl ; then 
add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg to the 
mashed milch, mustard, 1 teaspoonful of 
sugar mixed with % cup of vinegar and a 
little lemon-juice, salt and pepper. Pour 
20 




February 

the sauce over the salad and garnish with 
olives and sliced lemon. 

18.— German Lentil Soup. 
To i gallon of soup stock, add i quart 
of lentils. Let boil until lentils are soft, 
with i sliced onion. Then add some small 
sausages. Let boil five minutes. Season 
to taste and serve the soup with the sausages 
and croutons fried in butter. 

19. — French Spiced Venison. 

Rub the venison with salt, pepper, 
vinegar, cloves and allspice; then put in 
a baking-pan. Pour over a cup of melted 
butter ; add 1 onion sliced, some thyme, 
parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a cup of 
hot water. Let bake, covered, in a hot 
oven. Baste often with the sauce when 
nearly done. Sprinkle with flour; add a 
glass of sherry and let brown. Serve with 
celery and currant jelly. 

20. — Spanish Mushrooms. 

Drain 1 can of mushrooms and heat 2 

tablespoonfuls of butter. Add 6 shallots 

and 1 clove of garlic chopped fine, some 

21 









February 

parsley and thyme and the mushrooms. 
Let all fry a few minutes ; then add the 
mushroom liquor and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
white wine, salt and pepper to taste. Let 
simmer five minutes and serve hot on slices 
of toast. 

21. — Vienna Noodle Pudding. 

Boil some fine noodles in salted water for 
ten minutes; let drain. Beat the yolks of 
5 eggs with 1 cup of pulverized sugar and 
mix with the noodles. Add ]/ 2 cup of 
raisins, ]/ 2 cup of pounded almonds, a 
pinch of cinnamon and the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a froth. Put in a well-buttered 
pudding-dish and bake until brown. Serve 
hot with lemon sauce. 

22.— Dutch Sweet Potato Puff. 

Peel and boil 3 sweet potatoes in salted 
water until tender ; then mash well with 
3 beaten yolks of eggs, 1 cup of milk, 3 
tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, a pinch of nutmeg and lemon-juice. 
Beat the whites with a pinch of salt to a stiff 
froth ; add to the potatoes and put in a 
22 




February 



well-but ered baking-dish and bake, 
hot. 



Serve 



23.— Spaghetti (Italian). 
Boil ) z pound of spaghetti until tender. 
Drain. Heat 1 tablespoonful of butter, stir 
in y 2 pound of grated cheese, salt and pepper. 
Then add 1 cup of milk \ let boil and pour 
over the spaghetti. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and grated cheese and let bake in 
the oven until done. Serve hot. 

24. — Russian Beet Soup. 
Boil 5 medium-sized beets until tender; 
then chop and add to a highly seasoned 
chicken broth. Add the juice of 1 lemon, 
some cinnamon and nutmeg ; let boil fifteen 
minutes. Then add 1 glass of red wine, 
mixed with a teaspoonful of brown sugar. 
Let boil a few minutes longer and serve with 
fried croutons. 

25.— Boulettes. 

Chop and mince 1 pound of round steak, 

1 onion and 2 sprigs of parsley. Add 1 

tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoon- 

fuls of melted butter. Season highly with 

23 







February 






salt, black pepper and a pinch of cayenne. 
Mix with i egg and form into balls ; roll 
in flour and fry in deep hot lard until brown. 
Serve hot with tomato-sauce. 

26.— Baden Stewed Lentils. 

Boil 1 quart of lentils until tender; then 
heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Add 1 
chopped onion and stir in 1 tablespoon ful 
of flour until brown ; add some cold water 
mixed with vinegar. Let boil and pour 
the sauce over the lentils. Season with salt 
and pepper, and serve with small boiled 
sausages. Sprinkle the top with bread- 
crumbs fried in butter until brown. 

27. — Duck aux Champignons. 

Clean and season a pair of wild ducks 
and cut into pieces at the joints. Heat 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan ; add 
the ducks, 1 large onion chopped fine, 2 
cloves of garlic and 1 herb bouquet chopped. 
Cover and brown a few minutes ; add 1 cup 
of water and stew until tender. Then add 
]/ 2 can of mushrooms and 1 glass of claret 
and let simmer until done. 
24 




February 

28. — Hungarian Beef Stew. 
Cut beef into small pieces. Heat some 
dripping in a saucepan ; add the meat, salt 
and black pepper ; cover and let stew half an 
hour. Then add 3 potatoes cut into dice 
pieces, 1 onion sliced thin, 1 cup of hot 
water, and y 2 teaspoonful of paprica. Let 
all cook until tender. Then add some 
chopped parsley and thicken the sauce with 
flour, mixed in y 2 cup of milk. Let cook a 
few minutes and serve hot. 





25 






MARCH. 



i. — Chicken Chop Suey (Chinese). 

Cut all the meat of a chicken into thin 
strips ; season with black pepper, and cay- 
enne, and fry in hot lard. Add some ham, 
onion, celery, green bean sprouts and mush- 
rooms cut fine. Moisten with j4 cup of 
stock. Add j^ cup of Chinese sauce ; cover 
and let simmer until tender. Thicken the 
sauce with flour; add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
cream and chopped parsley. Serve hot on a 
platter with boiled rice. 

2._Jewish Shallot. 

Line a well-buttered pudding-dish with a 
rich pie- paste and cover with a layer of sliced 
apples. Sprinkle with cinnamon, grated 
lemon peel and small bits of butter, and 
moisten with white wine ; then cover with a 
layer of the paste and fill with another layer 




March 

of apples, nuts and raisins, a tablespoonfnl 
of syrup, the juice of y z lemon and bits of 
butter. Cover with the top crust ; press in 
the edges with a beaten egg, and rub the top 
with butter. Let bake in a moderate oven 
until done. 

3.— Russian Relish. 

Cut some slices of brown bread into fingers 
half an inch thick ; spread with butter. Mix 
some Russian caviare with lemon-juice to 
taste and a tablespoonful of finely chopped 
shallots. Spread the fingers with the mixture 
and place an oyster in the centre of each. 
Sprinkle with salt and a pinch of paprica. 
Serve. Garnish with thin slices of lemon 
and parsley. 

4.— Dutch Stuffed Potatoes. 

Select fine smooth potatoes; cut off the 
end of each and scrape out the inside. Mix 
this with chopped ham, onion and parsley, 
and a tablespoonful of butter. Season with 
salt, pepper and lemon -juice. Fill the potato 
with the mixture and let bake in a moderate 
oven until tender and serve hot. 
27 






March 





5.— Fish a la Marseilles, 

Cut two kinds of fish into slices ; season 
with salt. Mince 2 cloves of garlic, 2 sprigs 
of parsley, 2 sprigs of thyme and 2 bay- 
leaves very fine. Add a pinch of pepper. 
Roll the fish in the spice. Then fry 2 sliced 
onions in butter ; add 1 cup of tomatoes, the 
juice of a lemon and 2 cups of water. Let 
boil up. Add the fish and let boil until 
done. Remove the fish to a platter. Add a 
cup of white wine to the sauce and 1 table- 
spoonful of sugar. Boil up and pour over 
the fish. Serve with toast. 

6. — Jewish Stewed Brains. 

Clean and stew the brains with y 2 cup of 
vinegar, 1 sliced onion, salt and pepper. 
Add a tablespoonful of brown sugar, ^ cup 
of raisins. Let stew until tender. Remove 
the brains to a platter; add a lump of butter 
and a tablespoonful of molasses to the sauce ; 
boil up and pour over the brains. Serve 
cold ; garnish with lemon slices. 

7. — Austrian Apple Strudel. 

Mix 1 pint of flour with y 2 cup of water, 
4 ounces of butter, 3 eggs and a pinch of salt 

28 




March 



to a stiff dough ; then roll out as thin as pos- 
sible. Pour over some melted butter ; cover 
with chopped apples and raisins. Sprinkle 
with sugar and cinnamon. Make a large 
roll; bake in a buttered baking-pan with 
flakes of butter on top until brown. 

8.— Vienna Nut Torte. 

Blanch % pound of almonds and pound 
in a mortar. Then beat 4 eggs with l / 2 cup 
of sugar. Add 1 teaspoonful of brandy and 
a teaspoonful of wine and lemon-juice; add 
4 lady fingers crumbled up fine. Beat all to- 
gether with the nuts; put in a well-buttered 
pudding-dish and bake. Serve with wine 
sauce. 




9. — Bavarian Cabbage Salad. 

Chop a cabbage with 1 large onion and 2 
stalks of celery and 2 peppers ; season well 
with salt and sprinkle with pepper. Heat 
some vinegar ; add a teaspoonful of prepared 
mustard. Then beat the yolks of 2 eggs 
with a tablespoonful of sugar; add the hot 
vinegar slowly to the beaten eggs and mix 
with the cabbage. Serve cold. 
29 





March 




io. — Russian Stewed Duck. 

Clean and cut the duck into pieces and 
season with salt and pepper ; then cut y 2 
pound of bacon into dice pieces and put in a 
large saucepan with i onion and 2 carrots. 
Cut fine 1 herb bouquet, a few cloves and a 
few peppercorns; add the duck. Let all 
cook slowly with 1 cup of stock until tender; 
then add 1 cup of red wine. Thicken the 
sauce with flour, boil and serve hot. 




11. — Russian Chicken Patties. 

Chop the white meat of cooked chicken 
and tin key very fine and mix with 3 chopped 
truffles and some chopped parsley. Season 
with the grated peel of y 2 lemon, a pinch of 
nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and moisten 
with cream. Make a puff-paste and roll out 
very thin. Cut into squares and fill with a 
tablespoonful of the mixture. Press. the ends 
together and fry in deep hot lard until a light 
brown. Drain and serve very hot with tomato- 
sauce. 



12 Japanese Salad. 

Cut some celery, apples and truffles into 




March 



fine shreds and mix with chrysanthemum 
flowers ; season with salt and pepper. Put 
in a salad bowl and cover with a mayonnaise 
dressing. Garnish with chopped hard-boiled 
eggs and olives. 

13. — Polish Chops. 
Season veal chops with salt and pepper and 
let fry a few minutes in hot dripping. Re- 
move the chops and cover with a mixture of 
bacon, liver, onions and parsley minced fine 
and well seasoned. Then let bake in the oven 
with 1 cup of beef broth. Baste often and 
serve very hot. 




14.— Spanish Stewed Rabbit. 
Clean and parboil 2 rabbits ; then cut 
into pieces. Sprinkle with flour and fry in 
hot lard. Remove the rabbits. Add chopped 
tomato and onion to the sauce ; mix with 
flour ; let fry ; add the sauce in which the 
rabbit was cooked, some lemon-juice, x /o, 
teaspoonful of red pepper, parsley and salt 
to taste. Cook ten minutes; then add the 
rabbit and simmer five minutes. Serve hot 
with boiled rice. 

31 








March 

15. — Scotch Baked Mutton. 
Season a leg of mutton well with salt and 
pepper. Dredge with flour and let bake in 
a hot oven until nearly done. Then add 
some boiled turnips cut in quarters; sprinkle 
with pepper and flour ; let bake until 
browned. Serve the mutton on a platter 
with the turnips. 

16.— Belgian Stuffed Shad. 

Season and stuff the shad with chopped 
oysters and mushrooms well seasoned. Place 
in a well-buttered baking-dish ; sprinkle with 
fine bread-crumbs, chopped onion and pars- 
ley. Put flakes of butter on top and pour in 
1 cup of tomato-sauce. Let bake until done. 
Baste often with the sauce. Serve with celery 
salad with French dressing. 

17. — Italian Roast Beef. 
Cut several deep incisions in the upper 
round of beef and press into them lardoons 
of salt pork. Stick 2 cloves of sliced garlic 
and 1 dozen cloves in the meat ; season with 
salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Put 
in the dripping-pan with some hot water and 
32 




March 



let roast until tender. Serve with boiled 
macaroni. 

18. — French Apple Souffle". 
Cook apples and sweeten to taste. Mash 
well with i tablespoonful of butter. Beat the 
yolks of 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
the juice and rind of y 2 lemon; add the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. Put in a but- 
tered pudding-dish and bake in a moderate 
oven until done. 




19. — German Sweet Pretzels. 
Mix y 2 pound of flour with l / z pound of 
fresh butter ; add % pound of sugar, 1 egg 
and 1 beaten yolk, 1 tablespoonful of sweet 
cream and some grated lemon peel. Mix 
thoroughly and mold the dough into small 
wreaths ; brush the top with the yolk of 
an egg and sprinkle with powdered sweet 
almonds. Lay in a well-buttered baking-tin 
and bake until a deep yellow. 

20. — French Waffles. 

Sift 3 cups of flour with ij4 teaspoonfuls 

of baking-powder and y 2 teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs ; add a tablespoon- 

33 





March 






ful of melted butter and 2 cups of warm 
milk. Add the beaten whites and stir in the 
flour, making a light batter. Grease the 
waffle irons and fill with the batter. Bake 
until a delicate brown. Remove to a hot 
dish. Serve hot with powdered sugar on 
top. 

21. — Swedish Stewed Mutton. 

Season the breast of mutton with salt, 
pepper, thyme and mace ; let stew slowly 
with 1 onion and 2 cloves of garlic chopped. 
Add some chopped capers and mushrooms ; 
cook until tender. Then thicken the sauce 
with flour mixed with a glass of wine and 
boil up. Serve hot with baked turnips. 

22. — Swedish Pie. 
Make a rich pie-dough ; line a deep pie- 
dish with the paste and let bake. Then fill 
with chopped boiled fish,, oysters, shrimps 
and some chopped mushrooms. Sprinkle 
with salt and paprica and the grated peel of 
a lemon. Pour over y^ cup of melted butter 
and the juice of y 2 lemon and a beaten egg. 
Then cover with the dough and let bake 
until done. Serve hot. 
34 




March 



23.— Greek Stuffed Egg- Plant. 
Parboil the egg-plant and cut in half. 
Scrape out some of the inside and chop 
some cooked lamb, 2 green peppers, 1 onion, 
and 2 tomatoes. Then mix with a beaten 
egg, 1 tablespoon ful of butter, salt and pepper 
to taste. Fill the halves with the mixture j 
sprinkle with bread-crumbs and bits of butter. 
Put in a baking-dish with a little stock and 
bake. 

24. — Norwegian Fish Pudding. 
Remove the bones from a large cooked 
fish and chop to a fine mince. Mix with 
2 beaten eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 
tablespoon ful of butter, season with salt, 
black pepper and ^ teaspoonful of paprica. 
Beat well together with some bread-crumbs ; 
fill a mold with the pudding and let steam 
one hour ; then boil the sauce in which the 
fish was cooked, add 1 tablespoonful of but- 
ter, chopped parsley and chopped onion. 
Season highly ; boil and serve with the 
pudding. 

25. — Japanese Eggs. 

Cook some rice in a rich chicken stock ; 
35 










March 

place on a platter. Fry 6 eggs and trim 
neatly ; sprinkle with salt, black pepper, 
chopped parsley and lemon-juice. Put the 
eggs on the rice and pour a little hot tomato- 
sauce over the base of the platter and serve. 

26. — Jewish Stewed Brisket. 
Boil beef brisket until tender, and slice 
thin. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add 
1 chopped onion. Stir in 1 tablespoon fnl of 
flour until brown. Add the water in which 
the meat was cooked, ^ cup of raisins, x / z 
cup of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of brown 
sugar and some cinnamon and 1 carrot sliced 
thin, salt, pepper and a few cloves. Let boil. 
Add the brisket and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot or cold. 

27. — Hungarian Fruit Roll. 
Make a pie-dough. Roll out and spread 
with melted butter, raisins, currants, chopped 
apples, nuts and shredded citron. Cover 
well with brown sugar and sprinkle with 
cinnamon and the grated peel of a lemon. 
Roll up the dough. Lay in a buttered 
baking-pan. Rub the top well with melted 
36 




March 



butter and let bake until brown. Serve with 
wine sauce. 

28.— Dutch Stewed Fish. 

Cook a large fish with 1 onion, 2 stalks of 
celery, parsley, a tablespoonful of butter, salt 
and pepper until done. Remove fish to a 
platter. Add 2 chopped pickles, the juice 
and rind of a lemon, */ 2 cup of vinegar. 
Mash the yolks of 2 boiled eggs with 1 raw 
egg, a teaspoonful of prepared mustard and 
a tablespoonful of butter. Add to the sauce 
and boil. Lay the fish in the boiling sauce 
ten minutes ; then serve. 

29.— Belgian Lamb Chops. 

Season lamb chops ; dredge with flour and 
fry until brown ; keep hot. Fry 1 chopped 
onion and 1 small carrot in two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour; 
stir until light brown. Add ]/ 2 cup of water; 
let boil well ; add parsley, a few cloves and 
peppercorns, salt and pepper and 1 bay-leaf 
minced fine. Boil well. Add 1 glass of 
claret; then pour the sauce hot over the 
chops, and garnish with French peas. 
37 







March 




30. — Austrian Apple Omelet. 
Peel, core and slice some apples very thin, 
Heat 1 large tablespoon ful of butter in a fry- 
ing-pan ; put in the apples and let them 
steam until tender. Make an egg omelet 
batter ; sweeten to taste and pour over the 
apples ; let cook until set. Cover thickly 
with sugar and sprinkle with cinnamon. 
Serve hot with wine sauce. 



31. — Fish a la Normandie. 

Boil a trout well seasoned ; add 1 sliced 
onion, 1 carrot chopped, 2 sprigs of parsley 
and 1 bay-leaf, a few peppercorns and 1 
tablespoon ful of butter. When done, beat 
the yolks of 2 eggs with a little cream ; add 
salt and a pinch of cayenne. Remove the 
fish to a platter. Mix the egg sauce with the 
water in which the fish was cooked ; add j4 
cup of cream. Let get very hot and pour 
over the fish. Garnish with parsley. Serve 
hot. 




APRIL. 



i. — Italian Tongue. 
Boil a beef tongue until tender; skin and 
slice thin. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Add 1 chopped onion and 2 cloves of garlic 
minced fine. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour 
until brown; add a little water, 1 cup of 
tomato-sauce, ^ cup chopped mushrooms, 
lemon -juice, salt and pepper to taste. Let 
boil. Add the sliced tongue, and y 2 glass 
of sherry wine. Simmer ten minutes. Serve 
with baked macaroni. 




2. — German Prune Pudding. 
Cook 1 pound of prunes in a large sauce- 
pan with sliced lemon, a piece of stick 
cinnamon and brown sugar. Soak Y / 2 loaf 
of bread in water; press out dry. Add 3 eggs, 
% teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice. Add flour sifted with a teaspoonful 
of baking-powder. Make into a large roll ; 
39 








April 

place in the centre of the prunes ; cover with 
brown sugar and a tablespoonful of molasses 
and put in the oven to bake until done. 
Serve hot or cold. 

3. — Swiss Pot Roast. 

Season a breast of veal with salt, pepper 
and ginger. Heat a cupful of dripping ; 
lay the meat in the stew-pan with the drip- 
ping, 1 onion, some celery seed, carroway 
seed, a few peppercorns and parsley. Cover 
and let stew slowly until nearly done ; then 
add 1 cup of tomato-sauce and cook slowly 
until tender. Serve with baked potatoes. 

4. — Mushrooms a la Bordelaise. 

Drain 1 can of mushrooms ; chop 6 shallots 
very fine and saute in 1 tablespoonful of 
butter. Add the chopped mushrooms ; 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, some chopped 
parsley and 1 minced bay-leaf. Let cook 
ten minutes with x /> glass of sherry wine. 
Serve hot on slices of French toast. 

5. — Turkish Soup. 
Season and fry some lamb chops; add 2 



April 



green peppers sliced thin, i onion chopped 
and an herb bouquet. Then cook y 2 cup of 
barley in i quart of soup stock until tender. 
Pour all together and let cook until meat is 
very tender. Serve hot. 

6.— Scotch Omelet. 
Boil young tender leeks in salted water ; 
let drain. Chop to a fine mince and fry in 
hot butter. Add 6 well-beaten eggs, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and fold into an omelet 
and serve on a hot dish. 

7. — Jewish Egg Bread. 
Soak some matzoths in milk for a few 
minutes; then dip them into seasoned 
beaten eggs. Add a pinch of sugar and let 
them fry in hot rendered butter until a 
golden brown. Sprinkle with pulverized 
sugar and cinnamon and serve hot with 
coffee. 

8. — Bombay Broiled Kidney. 

Clean sheep's kidneys and cut into thin 

slices. Sprinkle with salt, cayenne pepper 

and grated lemon peel. Then dip in beaten 

egg and fine bread-crumbs and broil on a hot 

41 







April 





greased gridiron. Serve on buttered toast, 
spread, with curry paste. 

9. — German Prune Kuchen. 

Boil some prunes until tender. Remove 
the kernels and mash the prunes well. Mix 
with sugar, cinnamon and lemon-juice to 
taste. Make a rich biscuit dough, roll out 
and place on a well-buttered baking-pan. 
Fill with the prunes and let bake until done. 
Serve cold. 

10. — French Roast with Carrots. 
Lard a round of beef with slices of bacon 
and put in a large saucepan. Cover and let 
brown a few minutes. Add sliced onion and 
boiling water to cover. Let cook slowly until 
tender ; then scrape 6 carrots and cut thin ; 
add 2 sliced onions, 2 cloves of garlic and let 
cook until tender. Thicken with butter and 
flour. Season highly with salt, pepper and 
parsley ; add to the meat, and let all cook to- 
gether a half hour and serve hot. 

11. — Spanish Fried Chicken. 
Cut a fat hen into pieces at the joints and 
boil until tender ; season and fry with 1 onion 
42 




April 



and 2 green peppers chopped fine. Add I 
cup of tomato-sauce, salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve the chicken on a platter with boiled 
rice. 

12.— Hungarian Bread Pudding. 
Chop y 2 cup of suet. Mix with ]/ 2 loaf of 
stale bread that has been soaked and pressed 
dry. Add i cup of chopped apples, i cup 
of sugar, y 2 cup of chopped raisins and nuts. 
Sprinkle with cinnamon, nutmeg and grated 
lemon peel ; then mix with the yolks of 4 
eggs and the whites beaten stiff. Put in a 
well-buttered pudding-dish, and let bake until 
done. Serve hot with wine sauce. 




13. — Swedish Baked Turnips. 
Teel small tender turnips ; heat 1 table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan. Place the 
turnips in whole, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per ; add a tablespoonful of sugar. Pour 
over a cup of water ; cover and let cook for one 
hour until tender but not broken. Thicken 
the sauce with flour and milk. Add a little 
water and set in the oven a half hour, cov- 
ered with paper ; then serve. 
43 





April 






14. —Belgian Baked Bananas. 

Skin fine bananas and lay them whole in a 
baking-dish. Sprinkle with sugar and grated 
lemon peel. Add the juice of 1 orange, y 2 
lemon and ]/ 2 glass of sherry wine. Let bake 
in a quick oven. Put the bananas in a glass 
dish and pour over the sauce. Let get cold 
and serve. 

15. — Japanese Rice. 
Boil 1 cup of rice ; add 3 chopped shal- 
lots, 1 teaspoonful of soy and salt to taste. 
Place on a platter, cover with chopped hard- 
boiled eggs, sprinkle with salt, paprica and 
chopped parsley. Garnish with some thin 
slices of smoked salmon. 

16 — Scotch Loaf Cake. 

Mix y 2 pound of butter with % pound of 
sugar, y 2 cup of chopped nuts and ]/ 2 cup of 
shredded citron ; then work in 1 pound of 
sifted flour with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Make a loaf a half inch thick and 
bake in a moderate oven until done. 

17.— English Meat Loaf. 
Chop cooked veal and boiled ham ; place 
in a well-greased mold alternate layers of 
44 




April 



veal, ham and hard-boiled eggs. Sprinkle 
with pepper, mace and chopped parsley. 
Moisten with beef-stock and let bake in the 
oven. Serve cold, sliced very thin, garnished 
with watercress. 

18. — Jewish Purim Cakes. 
Beat i cup of sugar with l / z cup of butter 
to a cream ; add 2 beaten eggs, a pinch of 
salt, ^ cup of milk and the grated peel of ]/ 2 
lemon. Add enough sifted flour with 1 tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder to make a soft 
biscuit dough. Put on a well-floured baking- 
board. Roll out a half inch thick. Cut into 
triangles and drop in a kettle of hot rendered 
butter ; fry until a golden brown. Then mix 
some powdered sugar with a little milk and 
flavor with vanilla. Spread on the top. 

19. — Swiss Pie. 

Make a rich pie-dough. Line a buttered 
pie-dish with the dough ; then slice three 
onions very thin and let cook in hot butter 
until tender; add a pinch of salt. Fill the 
pie with the onions, cover the top with cream 
and let bake in a moderate oven until done. 
Serve hot or cold. 

45 







April 




20. — French Apple Fritters. 
Peel and slice large apples ; sprinkle with 
sugar and lemon-juice and make a rich egg 
batter. Sweeten to taste and flavor with 2 
tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water. Lay 
the sliced apples in the batter and fry in deep 
hot lard to a golden brown. Serve with wine 
sauce. 





21.— Jewish Purim Torte. 
Line a well-buttered baking-dish with a 
rich pie-paste. Then mix 1 cup of fine poppy- 
seeds with the yolks of 5 eggs and y 2 cup of 
sugar, some chopped raisins and nuts and the 
juice of y 2 lemon. Add the whites beaten 
stiff; then fill with the mixture and let bake 
until done. 

22 English Boiled Pudding, 

Mix Yo, pound of butter with y 2 pound of 
powdered sugar to a cream. Add the yolks 
of 6 eggs beaten, J^ cup of seeded raisins and 
some chopped citron, a pinch of nutmeg and 
cinnamon. Mix in y 2 pound of sifted flour 
and Yz teaspoonful of baking-powder. Add 
the whites, beaten to a stiff froth ; put in a 
46 



April 



buttered pudding-mold, and let boil until 
done. Serve with brandy sauce. 

23. — German Stewed Brains. 
Clean the brains. Heat 1 tablespoon ful 
of drippings in a pan ; add the brains, 1 sliced 
onion, some parsley, salt and pepper. Let 
stew fifteen minutes. Thicken the sauce with 
butter and flour; let boil up. Serve hot with 
spinach and sprinkle all with chopped hard- 
boiled eggs. 




24. — Scotch Cream Muffins. 
Sift 1 pint of flour with 1 teaspoonful of 
baking-powder ; beat three yolks of eggs with 
a pinch of salt ; add 1 pint of cream and 1 
tablespoonful of melted butter. Stir in the 
flour; add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 
Beat all well together. Fill the muffin -rings 
y 2 full and bake in a quick oven for twenty 
minutes. 




25.— French Tart. 

Make a rich pie-dough. Line a large pie- 
dish with the paste and bake. Take 3 ounces 
of almonds and pound to a paste ; add 3 ta- 
47 




April 






blespoonfuls of pulverized sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, y 2 teaspoonful of 
cinnamon and the yolks of 2 eggs well 
beaten with 1 tablespoonful of rum. Add the 
beaten whites ; fill the pie and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Then make a glace. Mix 1 
ounce of granulated sugar with 1 tablespoon- 
ful of cold water and let come to a boil. 
Put on the pie when cool and serve. 

26. — Polish Stewed Beans. 

Break string-beans into pieces and let boil 
in salted water until tender ; then heat 1 ta- 
blespoonful of butter; stir in 1 tablespoonful 
of flour until brown. Add the water in which 
the beans were cooked, y 2 cup of vinegar, 1 
tablespoonful of brown sugar, some cinnamon 
and cloves to taste. Let sauce boil. Add 
the beans and simmer ten minutes. Serve 
hot with a beef pot roast. 

27. — Vienna Milk Rolls. 

Sift 1 y 2 quarts of flour ; add y 2 teaspoon- 
ful of salt ; work in a large tablespoonful of 
butter ; then stir in y 2 cup of milk with a 
piece of yeast dissolved in the milk and a 
teaspoonful of sugar. Beat all up well with 
48 



April 

i pint of milk ; let raise over night. Roll out 
an inch thick; cut with a biscuit-cutter ; rub 
with melted butter ; lay in a buttered baking- 
pan j let raise one hour ; then bake in a hot 
oven twenty minutes. 

28.— Scotch Potato Stew. 
Cut the potatoes into small dice pieces and 
fry in hot lard. Then fry 1 onion cut fine 
in hot butter, but do not brown j stir in some 
flour ; then add milk, salt, pepper and pars- 
ley. Let boil up once and add the potatoes 
to the sauce. Let all get very hot and serve. 

2 9-— Jewish Dumplings. 
Soak 6 crackers in water ; then press dry. 
Fry 1 chopped onion in butter and pour over 
the crackers. Add 3 eggs and chopped pars- 
ley ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and nutmeg. 
Mix all with some cracker-meal until you can 
form into balls and boil in salted water until 
done. Serve hot with melted butter poured 
over them, and garnish with parsley. 

30. — Italian Soup. 
Chop some cabbage and let fry in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; add }4 cup of rice (dry) 
49 






April 




and i clove of garlic chopped with ^ small 
onion. Let fry a few minutes; then add 2 
quarts of soup-stock seasoned with salt, white 
pepper and a little saffron to taste. Add l / 2 
cup of grated Parmesan cheese ; let all cook 
until done. Serve with toasted croutons. 






MAY. 




i. — Turkish Pur£e. 
Boil i cup of lentils with i bay-leaf, 2 sprigs 
of parsley, a pinch of salt and pepper to taste ; 
add some mace and cook until tender. Then 
fry 1 chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
olive-oil ; add the lentils and 1 cup of cooked 
rice and 1 tablespoonful of butter. Stir well 
\ogether and let get very hot. Put on a plat- 
tev and pour over a highly seasoned tomato- 
sauce and serve. Garnish with fried parsley. 




2. — Jewish Kugel. 

Soak ]/ 2 loaf of bread in water ; then press 
it dry. Heat y 2 cup of butter and mix with 
the bread ; add 2 chopped apples, y 2 cup of 
raisins, y 2 cup of pounded almonds and the 
grated peel of a lemon. Add the yolks of 4 
eggs and the whites beaten to a stiff froth; 
mix well together. Put in a buttered pud- 





May 






ding-dish and pour over y 2 cup of melted 
butter j let bake in a moderate oven until 
brown. Serve hot. 

3. — English Muffins. 
Take 1 quart of warm milk, y 2 cup of 
yeast, 1 teaspoonful of salt and flour enough 
to make a stiff batter ; let stand to raise until 
light. Then add y, cup of melted butler, 1 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water ; 
add enough flour to make a very stiff batter 
and let raise half an hour. Then fill well- 
greased muffin-rings half full with the batter 
and bake in a quick oven until done. Serve 
with butter. 

4. — Spanish Roast Veal. 
Season a 6 -pound veal- roast with salt and 
pepper and rub well with butter; put in the 
dripping-pan with one large sliced onion, 1 
bay-leaf, 2 sprigs of parsley and 2 of thyme 
and sage. Add y 2 teaspoonful each of cloves, 
allspice and mace. Pour in 1 cup of hot 
water and the juice of a lemon and dredge 
with flour; add a tablespoonful of butter. 
Let bake until brown and tender. Baste 
often with the sauce and serve. 
52 



May 



5. — Madras Stewed Chicken. 

Cut a spring chicken into pieces at the 
joints; season with salt and pepper and fry in 
hot lard with some tender mutton chops. 
Fry 1 sliced onion in hot butter with 2 
ounces of rice, 1 teaspoonful of curry-powder 
and 1 chopped apple; add to the chicken. 
Moisten with 1 quart of chicken broth, season 
to taste and let simmer until the chicken and 
mutton are very tender ; then add 1 pint of 
hot oysters and the juice of y 2 lemon. Let 
all get very hot and serve on a platter with 
fried egg-plant. 

6.— Irish Beef Rolls. 
Chop some fat beef with 1 onion and 2 
sprigs of parsley. Season with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg and a little mace to taste and the 
grated rind of y 2 lemon, 1 beaten egg and 
y 2 cup of fine bread-crumbs. Mix all well 
together and shape into rolls. Then heat some 
dripping in a saucepan; lay in the rolls; 
cover and let simmer until brown. Serve hot 
with the sauce. 

7 Norwegian Fruit Pudding. 

Boil 1 pint of raspberries and 1 pint of red 
53 










May 

currants in 2 cups of water until soft ; add 3 
cups of sugar, some cinnamon, 1 cup of 
pounded almonds and 1 tablespoonful of 
chopped citron. Let cook and mash until 
smooth ; then thicken with a little cornstarch. 
Remove from the fire and pour into a mold. 
When cold, serve with whipped cream. 

8.— Spanish Puffs. 

Put a large cupful of water in a saucepan ; 
add 2 ounces of butter, ^ teaspoonful of salt, 
1 tablespoonful of pulverized sugar. While 
boiling, stir in sifted flour until stiff and 
smooth. Remove from the stove and stir in 
the yolks of 4 eggs, one at a time, and the 
beaten whites ; then fry by the teaspoonful in 
boiling lard until browned. Serve with a 
caramel sauce. 

9. — Belgian Veal Scallop. 
Chop cooked veal to a fine mince ; butter 
a baking-dish and put alternate layers of veal, 
rice and tomato-sauce until dish is full. 
Cover over with fine bread-crumbs ; pour 
over some melted butter and let bake in the 
oven until brown. Serve with French peas. 




May 



io — Parisian Chicken. 

Clean and season 2 spring chickens. Put 
them in a saucepan with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; cover and let simmer until brown. 
Add )' 2 can of mushrooms, chopped parsley, 
and 1 glass of wine ; let all cook until done. 
Put on a platter and pour over 1 cup of hot 
cream. Serve, garnished with croutons. 

11 German Boiled Noodles. 

Make a stiff noodle-dough ; roll out very 
thin and cut into ribbons half an inch wide. 
Let them dry and boil in salted water ; drain 
in a colander. Fry some sliced onions in but- 
ter until soft; add the noodles. Stir and 
serve hot with stewed chicken. 





12.— Dutch Baked Fish. 

Clean and split a fish open down the back ; 
remove the backbone ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper ; put in a baking-dish, flesh side up. 
Put flakes of butter on top ; sprinkle with a 
little flour ; moisten with cream. Bake in a 
hot oven until brown. Pour over a Hol- 
landaise sauce and serve hot. 
55 




May 






13. — Vienna Cheese Torte. 

Mix 1 cup of cottage cheese with 1 table- 
spoonful of cream, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 
1 tablespoonful of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, and a pinch of 
salt and cinnamon. Mix all together with 
the whites beaten stiff; then line muffin-rings 
with a rich pastry-dough ; fill with the cheese 
and bake in a moderate oven until brown. 

14. — Hungarian Fried Noodles. 
Beat 3 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of water ; 
add a pinch of salt and enough flour to make 
a stiff dough work well. Then roll out as 
thin as paper ; fold the dough and cut into 
round pieces ; fry in deep hot lard to a golden 
brown. Serve hot with stewed chicken. 

15. — Belgian Roast Lamb. 

Season 4 pounds of lamb with salt, pepper 
and lemon-juice; put in the dripping-pan 
with 2 small chopped onions, 1 bay-leaf, 2 
sprigs of parsley and thyme ; then pour over 
y 2 cup of butter and dredge with flour. Add 
a cup of hot water and the juice of a lemon. 
Let bake in a hot oven until done. Serve 
with French peas. 

56 




May 

16. — Russian Salad. 
Chop y 2 pound of cold roast veal with 
% pound of smoked salmon, 3 sour pickles, 
2 sour apples, 1 large onion, some beans 
and capers and 3 hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine. Add some chopped nuts. Season and 
pour over a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish 
with sliced beets and olives ; serve cold. 

17. — French Rolls. 

Prepare the dough as for bread. Work 
in % pound of butter and %, pound of 
sugar. Add 4 beaten eggs ; form into'rolls ; 
put in a well-buttered baking-pan ; let them 
raise half an hour. Brush the tops with beaten 
egg and let bake until done. 

18. — German Herring Salad. 

Soak herrings over night in cold water ; 
remove the milch ; cut off the head and 
skin and cut the herring into small pieces ; 
add 2 apples, 2 pickles, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
1 onion, a few olives, all cut fine. Put into 
bowl; mash the milch with a little mustard, 
1 teaspoonful of sugar, pepper andsalt. Add 
% cupful of vinegar and mix all well to- 
57 







May 

gether. Garnish with sliced lemon, and 
serve with boiled potatoes. 




19. — Belgian Fried Calf's Feet. 

Clean and boil the calf's feet until tender; 
season with salt and pepper. Remove the 
large bones from the feet ; beat 2 eggs with 
salt and pepper; dip the feet in the beaten 
eggs ; then roll in fine bread-crumbs and 
fry in deep hot lard until brown. Serve hot 
with tomato-sauce. 




20. — Italian Ice Cream. 

Whip 1 quart of cream with 2 cupfuls of 
sugar until stiff. Put in the freezer until 
half frozen ; then add the juice and grated 
peel of 2 lemons, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine 
brandy, and a little pistache coloring. Let 
freeze until hard and serve with cake. 

21. — French Chocolate Biscuits. 
Beat the yolks of 6 eggs with 10 ounces 
of powered sugar ; add 1 ounce of powdered 
French chocolate. Mix well with 4 ounces 
of flour and the whites beaten stiff with a 
pinch of salt ; add 1 tablespoonful of vanilla 
58 




0= 



May 



extract. Bake on wafer sheets in small cakes 
to a light brown. 

22.— India Canapes. 
Cut slices of bread into delicate circles 
and toast in butter ; then take i ounce of 
chutney and 2 ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; spread the toast with ham and the 
chutney and sprinkle with grated cheese. 
Set in the oven a few minutes and serve 
hot, garnished with fried parsley. 

23. — Chicken a la Tartare. 

Season and stew 2 spring chickens with 

1 onion, some capers, parsley, 1 bay-leaf and 

2 sprigs of thyme chopped fine until tender. 
Remove the chickens ; add 1 tablespoon ful 
of minced pickles, 1 teaspoonful of made 
mustard, 1 teaspoonful of tarragon and ]4 
cup of mayonnaise sauce. Let boil up and 
pour over the chickens. Serve with boiled 
rice. 

24. — Jewish Pudding. 

Soak 6 matzoth crackers in water ; press 

dry and mix with 1 tablespoonful of butter, 

a pinch of salt, the yolks of 5 eggs, a small 

59 






May 





cup of sugar, some cinnamon, l / z cup of 
raisins and a little grated lemon peel. Add 
the beaten whites and bake until brown. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

25. — German Potato Pancakes. 
Peel 3 large potatoes and lay in salted 
water half an hour ; then grate the potatoes ; 
add pepper, salt, 3 eggs and a large spoon- 
ful of flour. Beat well together and fry in 
hot lard by the tablespoon ful until light 
brown. Serve hot with a pot roast. 

26. — English Roast Veal. 

Season a veal loin roast with salt and 
pepper and rub with butter. Put in the 
dripping-pan with sliced onions, tomatoes and 
parsley and 2 tablespoonfuls of dripping. 
Let roast ; baste often until tender. Serve 
hot or cold, cut into thin slices. 

27. — Russian Rice Pudding. 
Mix cold boiled rice with the juice and 
rind of a lemon, 1 cup of sugar and y 2 glass 
of fine rum ; then press into a mold. Let 
get very cold and serve with cold cooked 
fruit. 

60 




May 



28. — Scotch Pudding. 

Take 1 quart of black cherries; remove 
the stones and mix with y 2 pound of line 
bread-crumbs, some chopped nuts, the 
beaten yolks of 4 eggs and y 2 cup of sugar. 
Add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in a 
well-buttered pudding-dish and serve cold. 

29. — Italian Potato Balls. 

Peel and boil potatoes in salted water un- 
til soft ; drain, and mash smooth. Take a 
pint of the mashed potatoes ; mix with 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and 1 egg ; 
add a little flour, and^ form into balls. Put 
them into a well-buttered baking-pan; sprinkle 
with grated Parmesan cheese and bake in a 
quick oven to a golden brown. Serve with 
stewed chicken. 

30. — Belgian Veal Cutlets. 
Season veal cutlets ; dip in beaten egg 
and roll in fine bread-crumbs. Fry in deep 
hot lard ; keep hot. Chop a few onions 
with a clove of garlic and fry in a table- 
spoonful of butter. Stir in 1 tablespoonful 
of flour until brown ; add a little water and 
61 







May 

the juice of a lemon, salt, pepper and nut- 
meg to taste. Let boil well ; then remove 
from the fire ; stir in the yolks of 2 eggs, and 
let get very hot ; pour over the chops. 
Serve with French peas. 

31. — French Lemon Cookies. 
Beat the yolks of 4 eggs ; add 1 cup of 
butter and 3 cups of sugar beaten. Add the 
whites beaten stiff and a teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. Add enough flour with a tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder to make a stiff 
dough. Roll out thin ; cut into small 
cookies and bake in a quick oven to a light 
brown. 





JUNE. 



i. — Italian Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Cut tomatoes in halves; take out some of 
the pulp. Fry i large onion in butter, add 
the tomato pulp, a piece of beef-marrow, 2 
sprigs of chopped parsley, salt and pepper. 
Remove from the fire ; add a beaten egg 
and mix with bread-crumbs and a pinch of 
nutmeg. Then fill the tomatoes, sprinkle 
with buttered bread-crumbs and bake until 
done. Serve on a platter with poached 
eggs. Garnish with croutons. 

2.— English Salad. 
Pick, wash and drain 2 heads of lettuce 
and break into pieces. Mix with some 
watercress, shredded celery and a few leaves 
of mint. Put in a salad bowl, sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, sugar and lemon-juice and pour 
over a salad-dressing. Garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs and pickled beet-root. 
63 






June 






3.— Scotch Stuffed Eggs. 
Boil eggs until hard ; remove the shells. 
Cut out the centres lengthwise ; then chop 
cooked chicken to a fine mince; add the 
yolk of a raw egg and mix with cream. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill 
the eggs and dip them in beaten eggs and 
fine bread-crumbs and fry a light brown. 
Serve hot with cream sauce. Garnish with 
parsley. 

4. — Oriental Vegetable Curry. 
Feel and fry some small onions. Add 2 
stalks of celery, cut into inch pieces ; 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and curry-powder ; 
add a few truffles and pour over all 1 cup of 
stock. Let stew until tender. Then boil 
some potatoes ; mash smooth with butter and 
season with curry sauce. Place a border of 
mashed potatoes on a platter and put the 
stew in the centre; serve hot. Garnish with 
fried parsley. 

5. — Chinese Noodle Soup. 

Boil a large hen in 3 quarts of water. 
Add a few slices of ham, 1 onion sliced, 
some sliced mushrooms, 2 stalks of celery cut 
64 



June 



fine, 2 tomatoes and Chinese chopped herbs. 
Let cook three hours and strain ; then boil 
up ; add fine noodles and let cook ten 
minutes. Add chopped parsley and serve at 
once. 

6. — Hindu Eggs. 

Slice some hard-boiled eggs and place 
in a well-buttered baking-dish. Cover with 
well-beaten raw eggs ; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, cayenne and curry- powder, a few 
bits of butter rolled in bread-crumbs and 
some grated cheese. Let bake in a moderate 
oven until done. 

7. — Portugal Veal Stew. 

Heat 2 tablespoon fuls of olive-oil in a 
slew-pan ; add 2 sliced onions, a clove of 
garlic and a few capers. Let fry a few 
minutes. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour 
until brown ; add *4 cup of stock ; season 
with salt, pepper, cinnamon, cloves and a 
pinch of saffron. Add 1 cup of white wine ; 
let boil ; then add cooked veal sliced thin. 
Let cook ten minutes in the sauce and serve 
very hot. 

65 






June 




8. — Italian Coffee Cream. 
Mix \~y 2 cups of strong coffee with y z cup 
of rich milk in a double boiler; add y 2 cup 
of sugar, i tablespoonful of gelatin and a 
pinch of salt. Then stir in the yolks of 3 
eggs beaten with y 2 cup of sugar until it 
thickens. Remove from the fire; add the 
whites beaten to a froth and a teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Pack in a mold and freeze until 
hard and serve with whipped cream. 





9. — Scotch Rarebit. 

Cut y 2 pound of cheese in very small 
pieces and add 1 ounce of fresh butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, 1 tea- 
spoonful of prepared mustard, salt and pep- 
per and a pinch of cayenne to taste. Mix 
well together to a smooth paste. Have ready 
some buttered toast; place on a dish, spread 
with the mixture and set in the oven until 
melted. Serve at once. 

10. — Irish Ham Omelet. 

Beat 6 yolks of eggs with a pinch of salt; 
add the whites beaten stiff and mix with a 
tablespoonful of cream. Beat 2 ounces of 
66 




June 



butter in an omelet pan ; add the beaten eggs 
and shake the pan to spread evenly. Have 
ready some finely minced ham. Spread on 
half of the omelet, fold and serve at once on 
a hot dish. 

ii. — Jewish Stewed Tongue. 
Boil a calf's tongue in salted water until 
tender; skin and slice thin. Then heat 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter; add 1 chopped onion ; 
stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour until brown ; 
add 2 cups of the water in which the tongue 
was cooked, ^ cup of seeded raisins, a few 
cloves, 1 bay-leaf, % cup of vinegar, and y 2 
teaspoonful of paprica. Let all boil well ; 
then add the sliced tongue. Let simmer ten 
minutes. Serve hot or cold. 





12. — French Prune Souffle. 
Cook y 2 pound of prunes until soft ; re- 
move the stones and cut the prunes into small 
pieces. Mix with some chopped nuts and the 
yolks of 3 eggs well beaten with 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of pulverized sugar. Add 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla and the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Put in a pudding-dish and bake in a 
moderate oven for ten minutes and serve. 
tJ7 





June 




13. — Italian Cooked Eggs. 
Take 6 hard-boiled eggs and cut length- 
wise. Put in a pan with 12 anchovies, 
some onion juice and 1 tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. Season with salt, white 
pepper and a little nutmeg, grated. Then 
pour over all y 2 pint of sour cream. Let boil 
up once and serve hot with croutons. 




14. — Spanish Broiled Steak. 

Season a porter-house steak with salt and 
pepper and rub with butter. Place on a hot 
gridiron and let broil on a quick fire on both 
sides. Make this sauce : Chop 1 onion and 
brown in 1 tablespoonful of butter; add x / 2 
cup of stock and y 2 cup of claret ; let boil 
well. Season and thicken the sauce with a 
little flour and some chopped parsley. Let 
boil up and serve at once with the steak. 




15. — Liver a la Bourgogne. 

Season a calf's liver with salt and pepper ; 
put a few slices of bacon in a saucepan ; let 
get very hot. Add the liver, 1 onion, 1 car- 
rot, 2 bay-leaves and 2 sprigs of thyme minced 
fine; cover and let brown a few minutes. 
68 




June 

Then add i glass of sherry wine, salt and 
pepper and sprinkle with flour. Let simmer 
ten minutes. Serve hot with potatoes. 

16. — Messina Macaroni. 

Boil some macaroni in salted water until 
tender. Then fry i onion and 2 cloves of 
garlic chopped in olive-oil. Add 1 cup of 
tomato- sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Then 
add the macaroni, and let fry altogether. 
Serve hot with baked chicken. 

17.— Dutch Prune Pudding. 
Boil prunes until very soft ; remove the 
stones. Mash well ; add the yolks of 4 beaten 
e gg s > 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 cup of 
bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, y 2 cup 
of chopped nuts, and the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff. Put in a well-buttered pudding- 
dish and bake in a moderate oven until done. 
Serve cold. 

18.— Irish Beef Stew. 

Season a piece of fat beef; put in a stew- 
pan with some hot water. Let cook slowly 
a half hour. Then add 3 potatoes, cut in 
69 







June 




dice pieces, and i onion, sliced. Let cook 
slowly until tender. Add y^ cup of corn and 
i cup of tomatoes ; season with salt and pep- 
per. Let all cook until done. Serve hot. 



19. — English Creamed Asparagus. 

Cut tough ends from the asparagus ; scrape 
and boil in salted water until tender. Make 
a cream sauce. When done, stir in the yolk 
of an egg ; season with a little white pepper. 
The sauce must be rather thick and poured 
hot over the asparagus. Serve with veal 
chops. 




20. — French Float. 

Line a glass dish with stale sponge-cake. 
Sprinkle with wine. Make a boiled custard. 
Use 4 yolks of eggs and flavor with rose-wa- 
ter. Beat the whites with pulverized sugar 
and flavor to taste. Pour the custard over 
the cake and place the stiffly beaten whites 
on top. Put on the ice and serve very cold. 

21. — Russian Pot Roast. 
Season a round of beef with salt, pepper, 




June 



cloves and nutmeg. Put in a saucepan on 
hot dripping. Peel 6 small onions and slice 
2 carrots and 2 cloves of garlic. Add to the 
meat with 1 herb bouquet. Cover with 1 
cup of hot water and let cook slowly until 
tender ; then add y 2 can of chopped mush- 
rooms, 1 glass of claret, salt and pepper to 
taste. Serve hot on a border of mashed po- 
tatoes. 




22. — Spanish Salad. 
Take j4 pound of chopped chicken, % 
pound of almonds, 1 red pepper, 1 Spanish 
onion and 1 head of chicory chopped fine. 
Mix in a salad bowl with % teaspoonful of 
salt, 1 teaspoonful of curry-powder, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of olive-oil. Garnish with sliced beets 
and bananas. 

23.— Scotch Baked Potatoes. 
Peel and slice 6 raw potatoes very thin ; 
then beat 1 egg with 1 tablespoon ful of but- 
ter. Put the potatoes into a shallow baking- 
dish, sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Add 
enough milk to cover the potatoes ; add the 
71 





June 





beaten egg. Sprinkle y 2 cup of grated cheese 
over all and let bake until done. 



24 German Apple Cake. 

Make a biscuit dough ; roll out very thin 
and put on a well-buttered cake-pan. Have 
ready some apples. Cut in quarters; lay 
closely on the cake ; sprinkle thick with brown 
sugar j add some cinnamon and a handful of 
currants. Pour some fresh melted butter 
over the cake ; set in the oven to bake until 
done. Serve with coffee. 



25. — English Ham Sandwiches. 

Cut thin slices of fresh bread. Chop ham 
with the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs ; add 
some made mustard and fresh butter and a 
dash of pepper. Mix all well and spread be- 
tween the slices of bread. Serve on a folded 
napkin and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 




26. — Swiss Peach Custard. 

Line a well-buttered pudding-dish with 
slices of sponge-cake and cover with peach 
compote. Make an egg custard and cover 
72 




June 



with the custard ; set in the oven to bake. 
Beat the whites of 2 eggs with a little lemon- 
juice and pulverized sugar spread on the top 
and let brown. Serve cold. 

27. — French Veal Hash. 
Cut veal round-steak into small pieces. 
Then fry some chopped bacon, 1 onion and 
2 cloves of garlic chopped ; add the meat ; 
stir well and let all fry a few minutes. Add 
1 cup of boiling water and let cook slowly 
with some parsley and thyme, salt, pepper, 
until tender. Add a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar. Let boil up ; remove from the fire and 
stir in the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Serve 
hot with toast. 





28— Vienna Potato Salad. 

Slice boiled potatoes thin ; chop some 
onion very fine ; slice 2 hard-boiled eggs and 
mix. Sprinkle all with salt and pepper. 
Then heat some vinegar. Add a teaspoon - 
ful of made mustard and stir with the beaten 
yolk of an egg. Mix all together with 1 
tablespoonful of hot butter and chopped 
parsley. Serve with cold meats. 
73 





June 




29. — French Baked Omelet. 
Beat 4 yolks of eggs ; add 6 soda crackers 
crushed fine, salt, pepper, 1 teaspoonful of 
grated onion, 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 
cup of milk. Beat up well ; add the whites 
beaten stiff ; put into a well-buttered baking- 
dish and let bake in a hot oven. Serve at 
once. 

30. — Italian Batter Cakes. 

Beat 3 yolks of eggs with 1 cup of milk, a 
salt-spoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of olive- 
oil and 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Mix with 
y 2 cup of flour and the beaten whites of the 
eggs. Fry until light brown. Serve with 
cooked fruit. 




74 



JULY. 

i. — Portugal Iced Pudding. 
Mix i quart of vanilla ice-cream with i 
gill of wine, % pound of Malaga grapes, 2 
ounces of candied orange peel, chopped fine, 
and 1 pint of whipped cream. Then place 
in the freezer to harden and serve. 

2. — English Chicken Salad. 
Mix 1 cup of cold chicken cut fine with 1 
cup of chopped celery, 1 cup of cooked 
chestnuts chopped and 2 green peppers cut 
fine. Season with salt and pepper. Put on 
crisp lettuce leaves in the salad bowl ; cover 
with a mayonnaise dressing. Serve cold. . 

3. — Turkish Stewed Lamb. 

Season a quarter of a young lamb and cut 

into pieces. Lay in a large stew-pan and 

cover with hot water. Add 1 sliced onion, 

2 sliced green peppers and 2 tomatoes, 1 red 

75 






My 





pepper and 2 sprigs of parsley. Let stew 
slowly until tender. Then fry thin slices of 
egg-plant and add to the stew. Serve hot. 

4. — Irish Apple Pudding. 
Pare and slice apples and lay them in a 
buttered pie-dish. Sprinkle with brown 
sugar ; add the juice and rind of 3/ of a 
lemon, a pinch of cinnamon and cloves. 
Then cover with a rich pie-paste and let 
bake until done. 

5. — Indian Rice. 
Boil 1 cup of rice in chicken broth ; add 
a pinch of curry-powder and season to taste 
with salt and pepper. Boil ]/ 2 teaspoonful of 
saffron in 1 cup of the stock ; then let all 
cook slowly until the broth is entirely 
absorbed by the rice. Serve very hot. 




6. — Hungarian Chicken Soup. 
Boil a large chicken in 3 quarts of water ; 
season with salt, sage and pepper ; add 1 
onion chopped and cook until tender. Re- 
move the chicken and chop it fine ; then 
add to the soup with the yolks of 3 well- 
76 




July 



beaten eggs ; let all get very hot. Sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and serve at once. 

7. — Yorkshire Pudding. 
Beat 3 eggs with a pinch of salt ; add 1 
pint of milk and -/i of a cup of flour. Stir 
until smooth. Then pour into a well-greased 
pan and bake until done. Serve with Eng- 
lish roast-beef, and pour over the gravy. 

8.— Portugal Salad, 

Slice 2 cucumbers, 2 tomatoes, 1 onion 
and two green peppers. Then sprinkle with 
1 chopped clove of garlic, salt and pepper 
and cover with some thin slices of bread. 
Pour over all a cup of vinegar and ^ cup of 
olive-oil and serve. 

9. — English Chocolate Pudding. 

Soak 6 ounces of bread-crumbs in milk 
and press dry ; add 2 ounces of butter 
mixed with 3 ounces of sugar and 3 ounces 
of chocolate ; add the yolks of 6 eggs well 
beaten, and flavor with a teaspoonful of 
vanilla; add the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake in a quick oven and serve at 
once. 

77 







July 




io. — Spanish Canapes. 
Prepare circular pieces of buttered toast. 
Then mix i cup of chopped fish with 3 sweet 
pickles minced fine, and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
Madras chutney ; moisten with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of Hollandaise sauce. Spread this 
mixture over 8 pieces of toast ; sprinkle with 
3 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. 
Let bake for five minutes and serve. 




11. — French Strawberry Pudding. 
Dip enough macaroons in wine to line the 
pudding-dish ; cover with sweetened straw- 
berries. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with sugar 
and flavor with vanilla; pour over the straw- 
berries ; put in the oven to bake. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth with some pulverized 
sugar ; put on top of the pudding and let 
brown. Serve cold. 




12.— Veal Croquettes a la Reine. 
Chop cold veal. Mix with some sweet- 
bread and mushrooms chopped. Season 
with salt, pepper and lemon-juice. Add a 
sprig of parsley and a little onion chopped 
fine. Mix with a beaten egg and bread- 
78 




July 



crumbs ; sprinkle with nutmeg. Form into 
croquettes. Dip in beaten egg and fine 
bread-crumbs and fry in deep hot lard. 
Serve hot with a cream sauce. 

13- — German Cheese Pie. 
Line a pie-plate with a rich pie-dough. 
Mix i cup of cottage cheese with i table- 
spoonful of butter, % cup of sugar, 2 eggs, 
a pinch of salt and a few currants. Mix 
well. Fill the pie. Sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon and bake until light brown. 
Serve hot or cold. 

14.— Italian Veal Pates. 
Chop cooked veal with some onion, 
parsley, thyme and 1 clove of garlic; season 
with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add some 
chopped ham, lemon-juice and 2 eggs. 
Mix with bread-crumbs and melted butter. 
Fill into small pate shells ; rub with butter 
and beaten egg. Place a paper over the 
top and let bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve with tomato-sauce. 

15.— Hungarian Noodle Pudding. 
Boil finely cut noodles in salted water ; 









July 

drain and mix with the yolks of 5 eggs, ]^ 
cup of raisins, sugar, cinnamon, and grated 
lemon peel to taste. Add the beaten whites. 
Line the pudding-dish with a rich pie-paste. 
Fill with the noodles and pour over some 
melted butter. Bake until brown. Serve 
hot with lemon sauce. 

16. — Polish Stewed Chicken. 

Clean a fat hen and cut into pieces at 
the joints ; season and let stew with 2 
sliced onions, 2 carrots and 1 potato, cut 
into dice pieces. When nearly done, add 
1 cup of sauerkraut, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sorrel and j4 cup of wine. Let cook until 
tender and serve on a platter with cooked 
rice. 

17. — Madras Curried Apples. 

Peel and core 4 sour apples and cut into 
rings ; then sprinkle with curry-powder 
and let fry until tender. Add a few thinly 
cut shallots. Cover and let simmer until 
done. Serve on a platter with boiled rice 
and pour over a curry sauce. 

18. — Irish Batter Cakes. 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs ; add a pinch 
80 



July 



of salt, i tablespoouful of melted butter, 
i small cup of milk and sifted flour enough 
to make a smooth batter. Beat well. Add 
the whites of eggs, beaten stiff and let fry 
a golden color ; then spread with jam and 
serve hot. 

19.— Spanish Baked Eggs. 
Poach eggs as soft as possible. Butter 
a baking-dish; add a layer of bread- 
crumbs and grated cheese. Place the eggs 
on the crumbs ; sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
grated cheese and chopped parsley. Cover 
with bread-crumbs and pour over some 
cream sauce. Let bake in a hot oven until 
brown on top. Serve with toast. 

20. — Scotch Stewed Onions. 
Boil 1 dozen small onions and 4 leeks in 
salted water until tender ; drain. Heat 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Stir in 1 table- 
spoonful of flour until smooth but not 
brown j then add }4 pint of rich milk ; 
season highly with pepper, and salt to taste. 
Add the onions ; let boil up and serve. 

21. — German Baked Cabbage. 
Take a large cabbage ; remove the outer 

81 









July 

leaves and the inside, leaving a frame. 
Chop all the cabbage from the inside and 
fry in hot grease with i sliced onion. Re- 
move from the fire. Mix well with bread- 
crumbs and ]/ 2 cup of chopped ham, 2 eggs, 
salt, black pepper and cayenne. Refill 
the cabbage ; put on the outside leaves ; 
cover the top with leaves. Put in a baking- 
pan ; sprinkle with bits of butter and pour 
in y 2 cup of water. Let bake until brown. 
Serve hot. 

22.— Dutch Veal Stew. 

Season 3 pounds of veal with salt, pepper 
and lemon-juice. Put a few slices of bacon 
in a stew-pan ; when hot, add the veal. 
Cover and let brown a few minutes; then 
add 2 carrots and 1 onion sliced thin, some 
thyme and mace ; pour over 1 cup of hot 
water. Cover and let cook slowly until 
tender. Thicken with flour mixed with ^4 
cup of milk. Add chopped parsley ; season 
to taste and serve with baked potatoes. 

23. — French Baked Apple Dumplings. 
Peel and core apples ; sprinkle well with 
sugar. Then mix some cold boiled rice 

82 




July 



with i egg, a pinch of salt, sugar and 
cinnamon, flour enough to make a dough. 
Cover the apples with the dough ; put in 
a well-buttered baking-dish with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and bake to a delicate 
brown. Serve with whipped cream. 

24.— Bavarian Fried Brains. 

Clean and boil the brains in salted water; 
add 1 onion sliced ; let cook ten minutes. 
Remove the brains and mash up well with 1 
tablespoonful of butter, some bread-crumbs 
and parsley chopped, salt and pepper to 
taste ; add 2 eggs. Mix together and fry in 
deep hot lard by the tablespoonful until 
brown. Serve with tomato-sauce. 

25. — Polish Bread Pudding. 

Soak 1 pint of bread in a quart of milk ; 
add the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of melted butter, y 2 cup of rai- 
sins, y 2 cup of currants, the juice of y 2 
lemon. Mix well and bake until brown ; 
then beat the whites to a stiff froth with 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls of pulverized sugar. Spread the 
pudding with jelly and cover with the beaten 
whites; set in the oven to brown. 
83 







July 






26. — Vienna Cherry Cake. 

Make a rich biscuit dough ; roll out; then 
put on a well-buttered baking-tin. Stone 
black cherries. Sprinkle the dough with 
flour and cover with the cherries. Sprinkle 
with sugar and let bake until done. Then 
cover with a sweetened egg custard and bake 
until brown. Serve cold. 

27. — Belgian Poached Eggs. 

Cut thin round slices of bread and toast 
them. Spread with chopped anchovies and 
chopped ham. Cover the top with whipped 
whites of eggs and place a raw yoke on each 
slice of bread. Set in the oven to bake 
long enough to x heat the egg, and serve at 
once. 

28. — Bavarian Apple Pie. 
Line adeep pie-dish with rich pie-paste. Let 
bake and fill with chopped apples, raisins and 
chopped nuts, sugar and a pinch of cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Then cover with cake-crumbs 
and let bake until done. Beat 3 whites of 
eggs with pulverized sugar ; flavor with lemon 
and spread over the pudding. Set in the 
oven a few minutes to brown on top. 
84 




July 



29. — Russian Fried Sweetbreads. 

Clean and season the sweetbreads with salt 
and pepper and sprinkle with lemon-juice 
and chopped parsley. Roll in fine bread- 
crumbs and fry in hot lard. Fry some eggs 
and put on a platter with the sweetbreads and 
serve with tomato-sauce. 




30. — Polish Apple Dumpling. 

Peel and core the apples and fill the space 
with currants. Sprinkle with sugar, cinna- 
mon and grated lemon peel, and cover each 
apple with a rich pie-paste. Lay on a well- 
buttered pie-dish and let bake until done. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

31. — Swiss Potato Dumpling. 
Boil 6 potatoes, then grate them. Mix 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and 3 eggs. Make into 
a soft dough ; roll out and then spread with 
fried bread-crumbs. Make into round dump- 
lings and let boil twenty minutes. Serve hot 
with melted butter poured over. 



85 








AUGUST. 



i. — German Pot Roast. 

Take a 5-pound beef roast. Rub with salt 
and black pepper and paprica; pour over 
some boiling vinegar ; add 2 bay-leaves, a 
few peppercorns and cloves. Let stand over 
night. Heat 2 tablespoon fuls of dripping in 
a saucepan ; lay in the meat with 2 sliced 
onions. Let stew slowly with one cup of 
water and y 2 cup of the spiced vinegar until 
tender. Thicken the sauce with flour and 
serve hot with potato pancakes. 

2. — Scotch Soup. 
Cut a sheet's liver into pieces and stew 
with the sheep's head in 4 quarts of water. 
Add sliced onions, sliced leeks, carrots, tur- 
nips, parsley and thyme, salt, pepper and a 
few cloves. Let all cook until tender ; then 
strain. Let stand until cool. Skim off the 
86 




August 



fat i heat and mix with flour until brown ; 
let boil. Add a glass of white wine. Cook 
all together and serve hot. 

3. — Spanish Fried Potatoes. 

Peel some new potatoes and cook until 
tender. Mix some fine bread-crumbs with 
grated Parmesan cheese and chopped parsley. 
Beat 2 eggs with salt and pepper ; dip each 
potato in beaten egg and roll in the bread- 
crumbs. Fry in deep hot lard until brown. 
Serve hot. 

4. — French Frozen Milk Punch. 
Sweeten 1 quart of milk with 2 cupfuls of 
sugar ; let come to a boil. Remove from 
the fire and grate in y 2 nutmeg. When cool, 
freeze until half frozen ; then stir in 3 cupfuls 
of whipped cream and freeze again. Add y? 
cup of rum and 1 cupful of French brandy. 
Let freeze until hard and serve. 

5. — Bavarian Fruit Compote. 
Cook 2 cups of water with 1 cup of wine. 
Add 1 cup of sugar and a pinch of cinnamon 
and some strawberries, cherries and black- 
berries. Let simmer in the juice until fruit 
87 










August 

is done. Put in a glass dish and pour over 
the syrup. Serve cold. 

6. — Vienna Rice Custard. 

Boil l /2 cup of rice in i quart of milk; add 
salt to taste ; boil until very soft. Beat the 
yolks of 3 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and stir in the rice. Flavor with rose-water 
and put in a well-buttered pudding-dish. 
Beat the whites with pulverized sugar to a 
stiff froth ; spread on the custard and let 
bake in the oven until done. Serve cold. 

7. — French Fried Cucumbers. 
Peel the cucumbers and cut into inch slices. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dip in 
beaten eggs and fine bread-crumbs. Season 
with salt and pepper and fry in hot lard until 
brown. Serve with tomato-sauce and veal 
chops. 

8. — German Cherry Soup. 

Boil 1 quart of cherries until soft ; sweeten 

to taste. Add some grated lemon peel, some 

cinnamon, 1 bottle of red wine and 2 bottles 

of water. Serve ice-cold with macaroons. 

88 




August 

9. — Swiss Pancakes. 
Peel and grate 4 raw potatoes ; mix with 
1 ounce of butter, 1 ounce of bread-crumbs, 
y^ pint of milk, 1 large tablespoonful of Swiss 
cheese, the yolks of three eggs and the whites 
beaten stiff. Season with salt and pepper 
and mix with 1 tablespoonful of flour to a 
smooth batter ; then fry in hot lard until 
brown. Serve hot. 

10. — English Tarts. 
Make a rich puff paste ; roll out thin and 
cut into squares ; then fill with fruit jam ; 
turn over and pinch in the edges. Drop in 
a kettle of deep hot lard and fry until a deli- 
cate brown. Sprinkle with pulverized sugar 
and serve hot. 

11. — Norwegian Rice. 

Cook rice until tender; then reheat in a 
well-seasoned chicken stock. Put on a plat- 
ter ; sprinkle with chopped chicken liver, 
scrambled eggs and grated cheese and serve 
at once. 

12. — Spanish Broiled Kidney. 

Take a fresh kidney ; clean and cut into 
89 







August 





thin slices ; run a skewer through them to 
hold them together. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and brush with butter j put on a 
broiler and cook for five minutes. Then 
place on a platter ; pour over some lemon - 
juice and hot butter ; sprinkle with parsley 
and serve at once. 

13. — Egyptian Stuffed Peppers. 
Cut off the tops and remove the seeds from 
large sweet peppers. Stuff with chopped raw 
beef highly seasoned, and mix with chopped 
onion, parsley, tomato, a beaten egg and 2 
tablespoonfuls of chutney. Put the stuffed 
peppers in a baking-pan with a little hot 
water ; sprinkle with bits of butter and let 
bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve. Gar- 
nish with cucumber salad. 

14. — English Tea Cakes. 

Beat y^ pound of butter with % pound of 
sugar to a cream. Add 1 egg and 1 tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon and mace. Mix 
with 6 ounces of sifted flour, a pinch of salt 
and milk enough to make a stiff dough ; then 
roll out very thin. Cut into round cakes and 
bake in a quick oven until done. 
90 




August 

15. — Bavarian Cheese Cake. 

Make a rich biscuit dough ; roll out and 
place on a well-buttered pie-dish. Then mix 
y 2 pound of cottage cheese with a pinch of 
salt, y^ cup of melted butter, y z cup of 
sugar, y 2 lemon grated, 2 yolks of eggs and 
y 2 cup of currants ; add the whites beaten 
stiff. Fill the pie with the cheese. Serve 
hot or cold with coffee. 

16. — Spanish Chicken. 
Cut a spring chicken into pieces at the 
joints ; season with salt and pepper and fry 
until brown. Remove the chicken; add 1 
onion, 2 cloves of garlic chopped and 1 cup 
of tomato-sauce. Cover and let simmer; 
then add the chicken with 1 glass of sherry 
wine. Cook ten minutes. Serve hot with 
boiled rice. 

17. — Polish Shrimp Salad. 
Drain 1 cup of shrimps and 1 can of sar- 
dines; cut into small pieces. Add 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, 1 small onion, a few capers and 
gherkins chopped fine and chopped parsley. 
Mix with % cup of vinegar. Line the salad 
91 








August 

bowl with the crisp lettuce leaves. Add the 
salad and pour over a mayonnaise dressing 
and serve. 



18.— Dutch Apple Pudding. 
Peel and chop apples; mix with ]/ 2 cup of 
nuts, raisins, the juice and rind of y 2 lemon 
and i tablespoonful of brandy. Then add 
the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites beaten to 
a stiff froth. Let bake in a moderate oven 
until done. Serve cold. 

19. — Bavarian Potatoes. 
Peel and cook some new potatoes with 1 
sliced onion, salt and pepper, until tender. 
Then brown 1 tablespoonful of flour in 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of butter ; add y 2 cup of water ; let 
boil well with some chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper ; then add the potatoes and let simmer 
five minutes. Serve hot. 

20. — Spanish Steak Roll. 

Cut thin slices from the round steak ; then 

chop 1 onion, 2 tomatoes, some celery, 

parsley and 2 hard-boiled eggs and season 

92 




August 



with salt and pepper. Mix with butter and 
fine bread-crumbs ; then spread the mixture 
on the steak, and roll up. Sprinkle with 
flour; lay closely in a pan of hot dripping ; 
cover and let simmer until tender. Serve 
hot, garnished with olives and parsley. 

21. — Oriental Cabbage. 

Chop a small head of cabbage, then fry i 
onion and 2 sour apples sliced thin. Add 
the chopped cabbage, ]/ 2 cup of stock and 
the juice of y^ lemon ; sprinkle with salt and 
cayenne pepper ; add y 2 teaspoonful of curry- 
powder. Cover and let all simmer until 
tender. Serve very hot on a border of boiled 
rice. 




22. — Dutch Salad. 
Soak 3 Dutch herrings in milk; then cut 
off the heads and tails and cut herrings into 
one-half inch pieces. Add 2 apples cut fine, 
2 hard-boiled eggs sliced thin, some cooked 
beets cut fine, some celery and green onions 
cut into very small pieces. Season and mix 
together. Pour over some vinaigrette sauce, 
and sprinkle with chopped gherkins. 
93 





August 




23. — Greek Cucumbers. 
Peel large cucumbers ; cut off the ends ; 
scoop out the seeds; sprinkle with salt. 
Then mix boiled rice with some chopped 
green onions and stuff the cucumbers. Lay 
the cucumbers in a stew-pan ; pour over 1 
cup of stock and the juice of a lemon ; add 
1 tablespoonful of butter, and let cook until 
tender. Serve hot, and pour over a well- 
seasoned white sauce. Garnish with parsley. 




24. — Russian Beef Roll. 
Chop 2 pounds of beef with }( pound 
of suet ; add 4 small onions, 2 cloves of 
garlic and 3 sprigs of parsley chopped fine. 
Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Mix 
with some bread-crumbs and a beaten egg. 
Shape into a roll and lay in a baking-dish ; 
moisten with broth and let bake until done. 
Serve on a platter with a border of mashed 
potatoes and garnish with fried parsley. 



25.— Jewish Veal Stew. 
Cook 3 pounds of veal ; when nearly done, 
add y 2 cup of vinegar, y 2 cup of raisins, a 
94 




August 



pinch of cloves and cinnamon and a table- 
spoonful of horseradish. Thicken the 
sauce with buttered bread-crumbs ; season 
with salt and pepper to taste, Serve with 
boiled rice. 



26. — French Pop-overs. 
Beat the yolks of 3 eggs until very light ; 
add i pint of milk. Sift 1 pint of flour with 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; add j4 
teaspoonful of salt and the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor with 
rose-water. Mix well together and pour into 
hot well-buttered cake-tins. Bake in a quick 
oven until a light brown. Serve hot with 
French coffee. 



27. — German Egg Toast. 
Cut slices of stale bread ; beat 3 eggs 
with a pinch of salt and ^ cup of milk. 
Dip the slices of bread in the beaten eggs 
and fry until brown on both sides. Cover 
with pulverized sugar ; sprinkle with cinna- 
mon and some finely chopped nuts. Serve 
hot. 









August 

28.— Irish Potato Puffs. 
Peel and boil potatoes well seasoned ; then 
mash thoroughly with a lump of butter. 
Add some milk and 2 eggs; beat well until 
very light. Then fry in deep hot lard by 
the tablespoonful until a light brown. Serve 
hot with broiled steak. 

29. — Belgian Eggs. 
Take 4 eggs, 2 cups of milk, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of flour. Beat 
whites separate ; add flour to the yolks and 
sugar ; beat until stiff. Beat the whites and 
scald in milk ; strain from the milk, and set 
aside. Take the yolk, and stir gently in the 
milk until thick. Remove from the fire. 
Place in a dish to cool. Flavor with vanilla 
and then put the whites on top and serve. 

30. — Irish Cucumber Salad. 
Peel the cucumbers and slice thin ; add 1 
onion sliced. Sprinkle well with salt ; let 
stand half an hour on ice ; press out all the 
water ; sprinkle with white pepper and 
chopped parsley. Add vinegar mixed with 
sugar, to taste, and salad oil. Serve at once. 
96 




August 



31. — German Iced Beer Soup. 

Take one quart of fresh beer. Sweeten to 
taste and flavor with a pinch of cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Slice a lemon very thin and 
put in the beer. Let get very cold on ice 
and serve with sponge-cake. 








SEPTEMBER. 



i. — Dutch Biscuits. 

Make a soft biscuit dough ; then put on a 
well-floured baking-board and roll out one-half 
inch thick. Sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon 
and grated lemon peel and pour over some 
melted butter. Then roll up the dough and 
cut into inch thick slices ; lay in a well-but- 
tered baking-pan and let bake in a hot oven 
until done. 




2.— Hindoo Oyster Fritters. 

Boil large oysters in their liquor ; season 
with salt, pepper and curry-powder. Let 
come to a boil ; then drain, and spread the 
oysters with highly seasoned minced chicken. 
Dip them in a seasoned egg batter and fry in 
deep hot lard to a golden brown. Serve 
hot, garnished with fried parsley and lemon 
slices. 

96 




September 



3. — Jewish Chrimsel. 

Soak l /2 loaf of bread in milk ; add 1 cup 
of sugar, l /> cup of raisins, l / z cup of 
pounded nuts, the grated peel of a lemon 
and a pinch of cinnamon. Then mix with 
the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites beaten 
stiff and fry by the tablespoonful in hot fat 
until brown. Serve hot with wine sauce. 




4.— Spanish Relish. 
Stone some large olives and fill the space 
with anchovy paste, mixed with well-seasoned 
tomato-sauce. Then fry thin slices of bread 
and spread with some of the paste. Place a 
filled olive in the centre; sprinkle with 
chopped hard-boiled eggs and garnish with 
fillets of anchovies and sprigs of parsley. 




5. — French Orange Compote. 

Make a syrup of sugar and water ; add a 
little lemon-juice. Peel and remove seeds 
of oranges ; cut into quarters and lay them 
in the boiling syrup; let cook ten minutes. 
Remove the oranges to a glass dish ; pour 
over the syrup and garnish with candied 
cherries. 

99 








September 

6. — Spanish Baked Chicken. 

Clean and season a chicken with salt 
and pepper and let boil until tender. Put 
the chicken in a baking-dish ; pour over 
some tomato-sauce highly seasoned ; sprinkle 
with well-buttered bread-crumbs and let 
bake until brown. Place on a large platter 
with a border of boiled rice and pour over 
the sauce. Serve hot. 

7. — Swiss Beet Salad. 
Boil red beets until tender ; skin and 
cut into thin slices. Sprinkle with salt, 
whole pepper, whole cloves, 2 bay-leaves 
and mix with wine vinegar. Let stand. 
Serve the next day. 

8. — Bombay Chicken Croquettes. 

Boil a fat hen well seasoned with salt, 
pepper, 1 sliced onion, 2 green peppers and 
2 cloves of garlic. Remove the chicken 
and chop fine and mix with chopped parsley, 
the grated rind of y 2 lemon, ^ teaspoonful 
of paprica and a pinch of nutmeg. Add a 
little chopped tarragon and chervil and 2 
beaten eggs. Mix with the sauce and form 
100 




September 

into croquettes. Then dip into beaten eggs 
and fine bread-crumbs, and fry in deep hot 
lard a golden brown. Serve hot. Garnish 
with fried parsley and serve tomato-sauce 
in a separate dish, flavored with chopped 
mango chutney. 

9. — Swiss Veal Pie. 
Cut cooked veal into small pieces; season 
and moisten with a rich beef gravy. Pour 
into a deep pie-dish. Then make a cover 
with mashed potatoes moistened with cream ; 
sprinkle with bits of butter and let bake 
until brown. Serve hot. 

10. — Spanish Rice. 
Fry 1 large chopped onion with 2 cups 
of tomatoes ; add 1 cup of stock, salt and 
pepper to taste. Cover and let simmer ten 
minutes ; then add 2 cups of boiled rice. 
Mix well together with 1 tablespoonful of 
butter. Let get very hot and serve. 

11. — Polish Chicken Soup. 
Cook a large fat chicken in 3 quarts of 
water ; add 1 onion, 2 carrots and 2 stalks 
101 









September 

of celery cut into small pieces and i cup of 
pearl barley. Let all cook until tender. 
Remove the chicken ; season the soup to 
taste with salt and pepper ; add some 
chopped parsley and serve hot with the 
chicken. 

12. — Norwegian Soup. 

Boil a large fish in 2 quarts of water; 
season with salt and paprica. Add 1 sliced 
onion, 2 leeks cut fine, 2 sprigs of parsley 
and 1 bay-leaf. Let cook well ; then remove 
the fish. Add 1 tablespoonful of butter and 
1 quart of oysters. Let boil ten minutes. 
Add 1 cup of hot cream ; season to taste and 
serve very hot. 

13. — Greek Cakes. 

Mix y 2 pound of butter and 1 cup of 
sugar to a cream ; add 4 well-beaten eggs 
and the grated rind and juice of y, lemon. 
Then stir in y 2 pound of flour and work 
into a smooth dough. Lay on a well- 
floured baking-board and roll out thin. 
Cut into fancy shapes and bake in a mod- 
erate oven until done. Cover with a white 
icing, flavored with vanilla. 
102 




September 



14. — Russian Sandwich. 
Spread thin slices of rye bread with butter 
and caviare ; some slices of white bread 
with butter and thin slices of ham • some 
slices of pumpernickel bread with butter and 
a layer of cottage cheese ; and some slices 
of brown bread with butter and cold cooked 
chicken sliced thin. Put all into a press 
under a heavy weight for one hour; then 
cut into perpendicular slices and serve. 




15. — Spanish Dessert. 

Dissolve }4 box of gelatin. Then cook 
1 pint of milk ; add 6 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and stir in the yolks of 3 eggs. Mix 
all together with the gelatin and the whites 
of eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; add 1 tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Pour into a mold and 
place on ice. Serve with whipped cream. 

16.— German Bread Tarte. 

Take 1 cup of rye bread-crumbs and mix 
with the beaten yolks of 4 eggs, j4 CU P of 
sugar, some pounded almonds, a pinch of 
cinnamon, nutmeg and a piece of chocolate 
grated. Add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 





September 






i tablespoonful of brandy and i of wine. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth ; add to the 
mixture. Put in a well-buttered pudding- 
dish and bake until brown. Serve with wine 
sauce. 

17. — Russian Stewed Fish. 

Cut a white fish into pieces and salt 
well ; let stand. Then cut 1 onion and 1 
clove of garlic in thin slices; fry in 1 
tablespoonful of butter. Stir in 1 table- 
spoonful of flour until brown. Then fill 
the pan with water and let boil. Add 1 
teaspoonful of celery seed, 1 bay-leaf, a 
few cloves, a pinch of thyme and mace, 
y 2 teaspoonful of paprica and salt to taste. 
Let boil. Add the fish to the sauce; 
sprinkle with black pepper and ginger and 
let cook until done. Remove the fish to 
a platter. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with 
a little water and stir in the sauce with 
some chopped parsley. Let get very hot 
and pour over the fish. Garnish with lemon 
slices and sprigs of parsley. 

18. — German Liver Dumplings. 
Chop y 2 pound of liver; add 1 chopped 



September 



onion, some parsley, salt, pepper and a little 
nutmeg. Mix with 2 beaten eggs and 1 
tablespoonful of butter. Add enough bread- 
crumbs to form into small balls and boil in 
soup-stock and serve with the soup. 

l 9- — Jewish Sour Fish. 
Season a trout and let cook with 1 sliced 
onion, 1 sliced lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, a few cloves and a pinch of pepper. 
Add cinnamon, % cup of raisins and 1 table- 
spoonful of butter. When done, remove to 
a platter. Add some brown sugar, lemon - 
juice and chopped parsley to the sauce ; let 
boil and pour over the fish. Serve cold. 
Garnish with parsley. 





20. — Compote de Bannanes. 
Peel 1 dozen bananas and cut them in 
halves. Then cook }4 cup of water with }4 
pound of sugar ; let boil ten minutes ; then 
add the juice of a lemon ; let cook. Add the 
sliced bananas to the hot syrup and stew 
slowly until done. Remove the bananas to 
a dish and pour over the syrup. Serve very 
cold for dessert. 

105 





September 





21. — English Peach Pie. 
Make a rich pie-crust and let bake until 
done. Peel and chop some peaches and mix 
with sugar to taste. Fill the pie with the 
peaches ; let bake. Whip i cup of rich cream 
with pulverized sugar and flavor with vanilla. 
Spread the cream high over the pie ; let get 
cold and serve. 

22. — Bean Polenta (Italian). 
Cook 2 cups of white dried beans with salt 
and pepper until very soft; press through a 
colander. Fry i onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter until brown ; mix with the beans. Add 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of 
made mustard, some lemon -juice and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of molasses. Let all get very hot 
and serve with pork roast. 

23. — French Almond Pudding. 

Take y 2 pound of almonds and pound in 
a mortar. Mix with 6 yolks of eggs and a 
cup of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 
1 tablespoonful of brandy, 3 slices of stale 
cake-crumbs and the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Put in a well-buttered pudding-dish 
and bake in a slow oven until done. 
10G 




September 

24. — Italian Cutlets. 
Take tender veal cutlets ; season highly 
with pepper and salt. Dip in beaten egg and 
fine bread-crumbs and fry in boiling lard un- 
til a light brown. Have ready some boiled 
macaroni well seasoned. Put on a platter 
with the cutlets and pour over all a highly 
seasoned tomato-sauce. 

25. — Jewish Gefuellte Fish. 

Take 2 pounds of trout and 2 pounds of 
red fish ; cut in two-inch slices. Remove the 
skin from one side of the slices. Chop 2 
onions; add salt, pepper and mix with fine 
cracker-crumbs and 1 egg to a paste. Lay 
the paste on the fish and put back the skin. 
Boil the fish with salt, pepper and sliced 
onion, 1 carrot and 2 sprigs of parsley cut 
fine, a pinch of cloves and allspice. Let 
boil two hours. Add a tablespoonful of rich 
cream. Serve cold. 

26. — Swedish Stewed Veal. 

Season 3 pounds of veal. Lay some sliced 

bacon in a saucepan ; let get hot ; add the 

veal. Cover and let brown with 2 sliced 

107 






September 






onions, 2 carrots and an herb bouquet, 1 bay- 
leaf and 1 tablespoonful of butter. Add 1 
pint of water and let simmer until tender. 
Add chopped mushrooms and a small glass 
of wine. Let all get hot and serve. 

27. — French Apple Pie. 

Line a deep pie-dish with a rich pie-crust. 
Chop 4 apples very fine and mix with sugar, 
cinnamon, lemon-juice and Y / 2 cup of cur- 
rants. • Then mix with the yolks of 2 eggs 
well beaten. Fill the pie and bake until 
done. Beat the whites with pulverized sugar 
and spread on the pie. Let get light brown 
on top. 

28. — Vienna Filled Apples. 
Remove the core and scrape out the inside 
of the apples. Mix the scraped apple with 
chopped raisins, nuts, cinnamon, sugar and 
grated lemon peel. Fill the apples ; place in 
a stew-pan. Mix ^ cup of wine with y z cup 
of water. Sweeten with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and pour over the apples. Let cook 
slowly until the apples are tender. Remove 
from the fire ; put on a glass dish. Pour over 
the sauce and serve cold. 
108 




September 



29. — Scotch Stewed Tripe. 
Clean and boil tripe until tender ; then fry 
1 chopped carrot and 1 onion until light 
brown. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour; add 
1 cup of stock, 1 bay-leaf, some thyme and 
parsley ; let boil. Season with sait, pepper 
and lemon-juice. Cut the tripe into narrow 
strips j add to the sauce. Let simmer one- 
half hour and serve. 




30. — Polish Stewed Calves' Feet. 

Boil the calves' feet in salted water until 
tender; then take out the bones. Fry 1 
chopped onion in butter; stir in 1 tablespoon- 
ful of flour; add 1 cup of stock. Let boil 
with 1 bay-leaf, some parsley chopped fine 
and y^ cup of vinegar, salt and pepper to 
taste. Then add the feet and let simmer ten 
minutes. Stir in the yolks of an egg and 
serve hot. 





liw 






OCTOBER. 



i. — Oriental Pudding. 

Heat i large cup of milk and stir in 3 
tablespoon fuls of butter ; let boil up. Then 
stir in 1 small cup of flour sifted with 1 tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder and a pinch of 
salt ; stir until a smooth batter. Then re- 
move from the fire and stir in 4 well-beaten 
eggs, Yz cup of preserved ginger minced fine 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of the syrup ; mix thor- 
oughly. Put into a well-buttered mold and 
let steam two hours. Serve hot with wine 



2.— Swedish Batter Cakes. 

Sift 1 pint of flour. Add a salt-spoonful of 
salt, 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little 
milk, the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth and enough milk to 
make a thin batter. Then bake on a hot 
greased griddle until done. Serve hot. 
110 




October 



3. — Chinese Chop Suey. 

Cut 2 pounds of fresh pork into thin strips 
and let fry ten minutes. Add 1 large onion 
sliced thin and let fry ; then add 1 cup of 
sliced mushrooms, 2 stalks of celery cut 
fine, y A cup of Chinese sauce and a pinch of 
pepper; moisten with y 2 cup of hot water. 
Cover and let simmer until tender. Thicken 
the sauce with flour moistened with a little 
milk and let boil. Put some well-seasoned 
cooked rice on a platter, pour over the chop 
suey and serve very hot. 




4. — Russian National Soup. 

Chop and fry all kinds of vegetables until 
tender. Make a highly-seasoned beef broth ; 
add the fried vegetables, 2 boiled beets 
chopped fine, some chopped ham, y£ tea- 
spoonful of fennel seed, 2 sprigs of parsley 
chopped. Let boil well ; then add 1 cup of 
hot cream and serve at once. 




5. — English Buns. 

Set a sponge over night with 1 cake of 

compressed yeast dissolved in a cup of warm 

water, 3 cups of milk and flour enough to 

111 





October 




make a thick batter. Then add yi cup of 
melted butter, i cup of sugar, a salt-spoonful 
of salt, y 2 teaspoonful of soda, ]/ 2 nutmeg 
grated and flour enough to make a stiff 
dough. Let raise five hours; then rollout 
half an inch thick and cut into round cakes. 
Lay in a well-buttered baking-pan. Let 
stand half an hour ; then bake until a light 
brown. Brush the top with white of egg 
beaten with pulverized sugar. 





6.— Japanese Fish. 

Clean and season a large white fish with salt 
and paprica and let boil with 4 sliced shallots 
and 1 clove of garlic mashed fine. When 
nearly done, add 1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 
sprigs of parsley chopped fine, 1 tablespoonful 
of soy, 1 tablespoonful each of tarragon and 
Worcestershire sauce. Let cook until done. 
Place on a platter. Garnish with fried 
parsley and serve with boiled rice. 

7. — Swiss Creamed Potatoes. 

Boil potatoes until tender and slice them 

thin. Heat two ounces of butter ; add a 

dessert-spoonful of flour. Then stir in some 

112 



October 

rich milk until it thickens ; add the potatoes, 
salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Let boil 
up ; add a little hot cream and serve at 
once. 

8. — Belgian Chicken. 
Cut a cooked chicken into pieces ;' add 
some slices of cold veal. Heat i cup of 
stock ; add y£ teaspoonful of mustard, y z 
teaspoonful of paprica, a pinch of white 
pepper and salt to taste. Add the chicken 
and i glass of sherry wine. Let all cook 
ten minutes. Add 3 tablespoonfuls of cur- 
rant jelly. Serve hot with toasted croutons. 

9. — Swiss Biscuits. 
Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with % pound of 
butter ; add a pinch of salt and pepper, a 
teaspoonful of mustard and 5 ounces of 
grated Swiss cheese. Mix well with j^ 
pound of flour or enough to make a stiff 
dough ; roll out and cut into round biscuits. 
Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes 
and serve. 

10. — French Fritters. 
Boil 1 quart of water ; add 1 teaspoonful 
113 






October 




of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; then stir 
in enough sifted flour until thick and 
smooth. When cold, stir in 5 beaten eggs, 
sugar and a little nutmeg to taste. Fry in 
deep hot lard to a golden brown. Serve 
with wine sauce. 




11. — German Waffles. 

Mix % pound of butter with 6 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Add the yolks of 5 eggs, l / 2 
cup of milk, x / 2 pound of sifted flour with 2 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, a pinch of 
salt and the grated peel of a lemon. Mix 
well ; add the whites beaten stiff and bake 
in a well-greased waffle iron. Sprinkle with 
pulverized sugar and serve hot. 




12. -Dutch Rice Fritters. 

Take 1 cup of boiled rice and mix with 3 
beaten eggs. Then sift *4 cup of flour with 
1 teaspoonful of baking-powder and a 
pinch of salt. Add some sugar to taste. 
Beat to a light thick batter and fry a spoon- 
ful at a time in boiling lard. Sprinkle with 
pulverized sugar and serve hot with cooked 
fruit. 

114 




October 



13. — French Lettuce Salad. 
Take the inner lettuce leaves ; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Mix the yolks of 2 
hard-boiled eggs with 1 tablespoonful of olive- 
oil and stir all together with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of white wine vinegar. Serve at once with 
meats. 




14. — Austrian Baked Eggs. 
Poach fresh eggs one at a time ; then put 
in a well-buttered baking-dish; sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, bits of butter and grated cheese. 
Pour over the top y^ cup of cream sauce and 
cover with fine bread-crumbs. Set in the oven 
to brown and serve hot with tomato-sauce. 

15.— Swedish Stewed Chicken. 

Cut a spring chicken in pieces at the 
joints ; season with salt and pepper and saute 
in hot butter. Add 2 cups of cream sauce, 
y 2 cup of boiled rice, some chopped parsley 
and bits of butter. Let stew slowly until the 
chicken is very tender. Serve hot. 

16.— Polish Filled Fish. 

Clean the fish ; cut open along the back- 
115 






October 




bone. Remove all the fish from the skin and 
bone from head to tail and chop fine. Fry i 
onion in butter ; add some soaked bread. 
Take from the fire and mix with the chopped 
fish. Add 2 eggs and chopped parsley ; 
season highly with salt and pepper, a pinch 
of cloves and nutmeg. Fill the skin of the 
fish with the mixture and boil with sliced 
onions, a few lemon slices, some parsley and 
a tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper, 
until done. Serve hot or cold. 





17. — Eels a la Poulette. 

Clean and skin the eels ; let boil with salt, 
pepper and vinegar. Then cut into three-inch 
pieces. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add 
1 onion chopped ; stir in 1 tablespoonful of 
flour until brown ; add 1 cup of water, salt, 
pepper, 1 bay-leaf, some parsley and thyme. 
Let boil well ; add the eels and 1 glass of 
wine. Boil ten minutes longer ; thicken the 
sauce with the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten 
and seasoned with lemon -juice. Serve with 
fried croutons. 

18.— Italian Baked Fish. 

Clean and season a blue fish with salt, 
116 




Octob 



er 



pepper and cloves. Lay the fish in a bak- 
ing-pan with i onion chopped fine and 2 
tablespoonfuls of chopped carrot and parsley. 
Pour over 1 glass of wine; sprinkle with 
flour. Put flakes of butter over the fish and 
let bake until brown. Serve with macaroni. 




19. — Dutch Stuffed Goose. 
Clean and season a goose and stuff with 
oysters well seasoned with salt, pepper, 
parsley, thyme and bits of butter rolled in 
fine bread-crumbs. Put in a baking-dish. 
Pour over the oyster liquor and a little hot 
water ; let bake until done. Baste as often 
as necessary. Serve with red currant jelly. 




20. — Swiss Roast Turkey. 

Clean and season the turkey with salt and 
pepper. Then fill with 2 cups of bread- 
crumbs mixed with a lump of butter, some 
chopped onion and thyme, salt and pepper to 
taste, y 2 cup of seeded raisins and x / 2 cup of 
nuts. Mix all well with 2 beaten eggs. Put 
turkey in dripping-pan and let bake a rich 
brown. Baste often with the dripping until 
tender. Serve with dressing. 
117 







October 

21. — French Turkey Soup. 
Cut off all the meat from left-over turkey 
bones. Put the bones in cold water and boil 
with i small onion, i carrot, 2 pieces of 
celery and 2 sprigs of parsley, all cut fine. 
Add 1 cup of tomato-sauce. Let all cook 
well, seasoned with salt and pepper. Re- 
move the bones ; add boiled rice and the 
turkey meat cut into dice pieces. Let boil and 
serve hot with fried croutons. 

22. — Swedish Baked Fish. 

Clean and season a trout with salt, black 
pepper and cayenne. Lay in a baking-pan; 
dredge with flour ; sprinkle with parsley and 
bits of butter; add a little water and vinegar. 
Let bake in a hot oven. Baste often with 
butter until done. Garnish with parsley and 
serve hot with cream sauce. 




23. — Jewish Stewed Sweetbreads. 

Clean and parboil the sweetbreads ; then 
fry 1 small sliced onion in hot fat until light 
brown. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour ; add 
Y2, cup of water and y 2 cup of wine vinegar ; 
let boil up. Add r bay-leaf, a few cloves, 
118 




October 



% cup of seeded raisins, a few thin slices of 
lemon and chopped parsley. Season with 
salt and paprica to taste ; add i tablespoon- 
ful of brown sugar. Let boil ; add the sweet- 
breads and simmer until done. Serve cold. 

24. — German Stuffed Turkey. 
Singe and clean a fat turkey. Season well 
with salt and pepper. Chop the giblets ; add 
some chopped veal and pork, 1 onion, 2 
cloves of garlic and parsley chopped, salt and 
pepper. Mix with 2 eggs and stuff the 
turkey. Put in the dripping-pan with some 
hot water. Dredge with flour ; let bake un- 
til done. Baste often with the sauce. Serve 
the turkey with the dressing. Garnish with 
boiled beets sliced thin. 





25. — Neapolitan Salad. 
Cut cold chicken or turkey in small dice 
pieces ; add some cold potatoes, beets and 
celery, cut fine; sprinkle with chopped hard- 
boiled eggs, salt and pepper. Line the salad 
bowl with lettuce leaves ; add the salad. 
Cover with a French mayonnaise dressing. 
Garnish with capers and beets. /^SffS) 




119 



=ou 



October 





26. — Bavarian Stuffed Chicken. 

Clean and season a fat hen. Chop the 
giblets ; add some truffles, a chopped onion, 
parsley, bread-crumbs, a beaten egg, salt, 
black pepper and paprica to taste. Then fill 
the chicken ; heat some dripping in a large 
saucepan ; lay in the chicken, cover, and 
cook slowly with 1 cup of hot water until 
tender. 

27. — Hungarian Baked Herring. 
Bone the herring and cut into small pieces. 
Slice some cooked potatoes; then butter a 
baking-dish ; sprinkle with flour. Put a layer 
of potatoes, some chopped onion and herring 
and bits of butter until dish is full ; sprinkle 
with pepper. Make the top layer of potatoes 
and bits of butter. Moisten with 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sour cream. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven until brown. Serve hot. 




28. — French Stewed Quail. 

Stuff the quail. Put 1 tablespoonful of 
butter in a large stew-pan ; add some thin 
slices of bacon. Let get very hot. Lay in 
the birds; sprinkle with salt and pepper; add 
120 




October 

i small onion and i carrot chopped fine. 
Cover and let brown a few minutes, then add 
i cup of hot water. Let stew slowly until 
tender. Thicken the sauce with flour mixed 
with milk; add some chopped parsley; let 
boil up and serve hot. 

29. — India Beef Curry. 

Cut 2 pounds of beefsteak into inch 
pieces. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
flour and fry until brown. Add 1 onion 
chopped fine and 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Cover and let simmer with 1 tablespoonful of 
curry-powder and y 2 cup of hot water until 
meat is tender. Thicken the sauce with 
flour and butter. Serve on a platter with 
a border of cooked rice sprinkled with 
chopped parsley and garnished with fried 
apple slices. 

30. — Bread Pudding a la Caramel. 

Mix 1 pint of soft bread-crumbs with 
]/ 2 cup of seeded raisins, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and 2 eggs. Stir in 1 cup of 
milk and bake in a well-buttered pudding- 
dish until brown. Then boil 1^ cups of 
121 







October 




brown sugar with ]/ 2 cup of milk and 4 
tablespoonfuls of chocolate. Stir until 
smooth and spread hot over the pudding. 

31. — Irish Flummery. 
Take 1 pint of oatmeal ; pour on enough 
cold water to cover; let stand over night; 
strain and boil with a pinch of salt until 
thickened. Then add 1 cup of cooked 
small fruit, a lump of butter and sugar to 
taste. Let get cold and serve with cream. 




122 




NOVEMBER. 



i. — Swiss Fried Sweetbreads. 

Blanch the sweetbreads and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper ; then cut into thin 
slices. Dip in beaten egg and roll in 
grated Swiss cheese and fine bread-crumbs 
and fry in a little hot butter to a golden 
brown. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 

2. — Japanese Chicken. 

Cut 2 spring chickens into pieces at 
the joints ; season with salt, ginger, pepper 
and curry-powder and let fry in hot olive- 
oil until brown. Remove the chicken ; add 
y^ cup of chopped leeks, x / 2 pint of Japanese 
sauce, y 2 cup of chrysanthemum flowers, 
2 chopped red peppers, some bamboo 
sprouts shaved thin and y 2 cup of water. 
Cover and let cook ten minutes. Add the 
chicken to the sauce with i cup of cocoanut 
juice. Let all simmer until the chicken 
123 






November 





is tender. Serve on a platter with a 
border of cooked rice and garnish with 
fried parsley. 

3. — Hindu Venison. 

Cook some venison, well seasoned, until 
tender and slice thin. Peel and slice 2 
apples and 1 Spanish onion ; season and 
fry until a light brown. Add 1 cooked 
carrot sliced thin, some savory herbs, and 
1 cup of mutton broth ; cover and let cook 
fifteen minutes. Then mix ]/ 2 ounce of 
butter with ^ tablespoonful of curry-powder 
and i tablespoonful of lemon-juice ; add to 
the sauce with the sliced venison ; cover 
and let simmer ten minutes ; then add 1 
tablespoonful of currant jelly. Let get very 
hot and serve, garnished with fried croutons 
and sliced lemon. 

4. — Spanish Tongue. 

Boil a beef tongue until tender ; take off 
the outer skin. Then rub with butter and 
the beaten yolk of an egg ; put in a baking- 
dish. Add y z cup of the water in which 
the tongue was cooked, y 2 glass of wine 
and y 2 can of mushrooms. Sprinkle with 
124 




November 



salt and pepper and let bake until brown. 
Serve garnished with the mushrooms. 

5.— English Pigeon Pie. 

Clean and season some young pigeons. 
Stuff each with chopped oysters and bits of 
butter and let stew until tender with 1 
onion, 2 sprigs of parsley and 1 bay-leaf. 
Then line a deep pie-dish with a rich paste; 
let bake and fill with the stuffed pigeons. 
Add the sauce; cover with the paste and 
let bake until brown. Serve hot. 

6. — Hungarian Stuffed Goose Neck. 

Remove the skin from the neck of a fat 
goose and stuff with some soaked bread, 
fried with 1 small chopped onion in a table- 
spoonful of goose-dripping. Add chopped 
paisley, salt, paprica and ginger and mix 
with 1 egg. Lay in a baking-pan with a 
little hot water and bake until brown. 
Serve hot with red cabbage cooked with 
wine. 

7. — Swedish Cabbage. 

Shred a cabbage very thin ; sprinkle with 
salt and cook in as little water as possible 
125 






November 





until tender. Then add some milk and let 
boil. Add a tablespoonful of butter mixed 
with flour, some mace and white pepper to 
taste. Let boil up and serve hot. 

8.— Spanish Fried Fish. 

Season and slice red fish ; roll in flour 
and fry until brown. Then heat i table- 
spoonful of butter ; add i chopped onion 
and i cup of tomatoes ; let fry ; add i 
tablespoonful of flour and i cup of water ; also 
some parsley, salt, pepper and i bay-leaf 
chopped fine. Let all cook ; then add the 
slices of fried fish. Let all get very hot and 
serve with boiled rice. 

9. — German Spiced Rabbit. 

Clean and cut the rabbit into pieces ; 
sprinkle with salt, ginger, black pepper and 
paprica and pour over some vinegar. Heat 
1 tablespoonful of dripping ; add the slices 
of rabbit and 1 sliced onion, 2 bay-leaves, a 
few peppercorns, 2 sprigs of parsley, thyme 
and a little mace. Cover with hot water 
and let stew slowly until tender. Thicken 
the sauce with butter mixed with flour. 
Let cook and serve hot with apple compote. 
126 




November 

io. — English Layer Cake. 

Bake 3 layers of sponge-cake ; then mix 
some jelly with wine and spread between 
the layers and over the top and sides. 
Cover with a rich chocolate icing, flavored 
with vanilla. 

11. — Dutch Rice Pudding. 

Mix 1 cup of rice in 2 cups of milk ; add 
1 tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of 4 
eggs, the juice of y 2 lemon, 1 cup of sugar 
and nutmeg to taste, ]/ 2 cup of chopped 
raisins, y 2 cup of nuts and the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in 
a well-buttered pudding-dish until done. 
Serve cold. 

12. — Polish Poached Eggs. 

Boil y 2 cup of vinegar with one cup of 
water and break in fresh eggs one at a time 
and poach them. Remove to a platter; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Then add 
1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 tablespoon- 
ful of sugar to the sauce ; let boil up and 
pour over the eggs. Serve on buttered 
toast. 

127 






November 






13. — Belgian Sweet Potato Pure'e. 

Boil 4 sweet potatoes until soft. Mash un- 
til smooth with 1 tablespoouful of butter, 2 
beaten eggs, 1 tablespoouful of brown sugar, 
]/( teaspoonful of cinnamon and % cup of 
milk. Beat well. Put in a buttered pud- 
ding-dish ; pour over some melted butter ; let 
bake until brown. Serve hot with broiled 
steak. 

14. — Spanish Codfish. 
Parboil 1 cup of shredded codfish ; heat 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter ; add 1 chopped onion 
and 2 cups of tomatoes ; let fry. Add 1 
tablespoonful of flour; stir until thickened. 
Then add 1 cup of water, pepper and chopped 
parsley ; let boil well ; add the codfish. Let 
simmer one-half hour. Serve on buttered 
toast. 

15. — Halibut a la Toulonaise. 
Slice the fish ; season highly with salt, pep- 
per, cloves, lemon -juice and parsley. Then 
roll in flour and fry in hot olive-oil until 
brown. Garnish with lemon slices and 
parsley. Serve with a lettuce salad with 
French dressing. 

128 




November 

1 6. — Jewish Stewed Goose. 
Clean and cut a fat goose into pieces ; 
season with salt, pepper and ginger. Put in 
a stew-pan with i sliced onion, 2 cloves of 
garlic, 1 buy-leaf, thyme and a few pepper- 
corns ; add the juice of a lemon. Cover with 
hot water and let cook until tender. Thicken 
with flour and serve hot with apple-sauce. 

17. — Polish Rice Pudding. 
Heat 1 quart of milk ; add 1 cup of boiled 
rice, 3 ounces of seeded raisins and 2 ounces 
of currants. Let cook ten minutes. Then 
add the grated peel of a lemon, j^ofa grated 
nutmeg and the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten 
with 1 cup of sugar. Mix thoroughly and 
pour into a well-buttered pudding-dish ; let 
bake until done. Then beat the whites to a 
stiff froth with 3 tablespoonfuls of pulverized 
sugar ; flavor with vanilla. Spread on the 
pudding and let brown slightly in a hot oven. 
Serve with lemon sauce. 

18. — Vienna Dumplings. 
Mix 2 eggs and l / 2 cup of water, a pinch 
of salt and enough flour to make a stiff bat- 
129 






November 






ter. Then drop by the tablespoonful into 
boiling salted water until they rise to the sur- 
face. Remove to a platter and fry some 
onions in hot butter. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and pour over the dumplings. 

19. — Bavarian Sauerkraut. 

Cook 2 pounds of fresh pork ; season with 
salt and pepper; add 2 bay-leaves and a few 
cloves. When half done, add 1 quart of 
sauerkraut and let cook one hour. Add 1 
cup of wine and 1 tablespoonful of brown 
sugar. Let all cook until tender. Serve 
with potato dumplings. 

20. — Chicken Croquettes a la Reine. 

Chop cold cooked chicken with some 
mushrooms, parsley and thyme and season 
with salt, black pepper and cayenne. Add 
a tablespoonful of butter and 2 well-beaten 
eggs. Then form into croquettes. Dip in 
beaten egg and fine bread-crumbs and fry in 
deep hot lard to a golden brown. Make a 
cream sauce and serve with the croquettes. 
Garnish with parsley. 



130 




November 



21. — Jewish Goose Greeben. 
Cut all the fat from the goose into small 
pieces and cook in a skillet with i cup of cold 
water. Let cook uncovered until the water 
has evaporated ; then fry until brown. 
Sprinkle with salt and serve hot. 

22. — French Venison Pie. 
Cut venison in very small pieces and stew, 
highly seasoned, until tender. Line a deep 
pie-dish with a rich pie- paste and bake. 
Then fill with the venison. Add a glass of 
port wine, a pinch of cloves and mace to the 
sauce and bits of butter rolled in flour. Pour 
the sauce over the venison and cover with the 
paste. Rub the top with a beaten egg and 
let bake until done. 

23. — Belgian Broiled Quail. 

Select fat quails. Rub with salt, pepper 
and butter and tie a very thin strip of bacon 
around the body of each quail. Place on a 
broiler over a slow fire ; let broil twenty min- 
utes until done. Remove the bacon. Have 
ready buttered toast. Place the birds on the 
toast, pour over some melted butter, chopped 
parsley and lemon -ju ire. Serve hot. 
131 










November 

24. — Vienna Roast Beef. 
Season a rib-roast of beef with salt, pepper 
and ginger and rub with vinegar. Put in the 
dripping-pan with 1 sliced onion, 2 cloves of 
garlic, 2 carrots, 2 stalks of celery cut fine, 
1 bay-leaf and a few cloves and peppercorns. 
Pour over 1 cup of stock and dredge with 
flour. Let bake in a quick oven ; allow fif- 
teen minutes to the pound. Serve with po- 
tato dumplings. 

25. — Oysters a la Toulonaise. 

Drain large oysters; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Try out a few slices of bacon in a 
frying-pan ; remove the bacon. Roll the 
oysters in fine bread-crumbs and saute until 
brown on both sides. Place on hot buttered 
toast; sprinkle with lemon-juice and garnish 
with olives. 

26. — Chicken a la Bechamel. 

Clean and season a fat hen. Put a few 
slices of chopped bacon in a saucepan ; let 
get hot. Add the chicken with 1 carrot, 1 
onion, 2 stalks of celery chopped fine, 1 herb 
bouquet, 1 bay leaf, a few cloves and all- 
132 




November 

spice and 2 blades of mace, 2 sprigs of 
parsley and 1 cup of hot water. Let all stew 
until tender ; then add some chopped mush- 
rooms and pour over all 1 cup of hot rich 
cream. 

27. — Milanese Vegetable Soup. 

Cut bacon and ham into small pieces ; put 
in a saucepan with 1 tablespoonful of hut 
butter. Add all kinds of vegetables, cut 
into very small pieces and let fry a few 
minutes. Then fill the pan with 1 quart of 
beef stock ; let all cook slowly for half an 
hour; add some boiled rice and 1 cup of 
tomato-sauce and cook until done. Serve 
hot. 

28.— Swedish Salad. 
Cut cold cooked fish into small pieces and 
mix with chopped hard-boiled eggs, a few 
sliced olives, capers and gherkins. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Line the salad bowl 
with crisp lettuce leaves ; add the salad and 
cover with a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish 
with aspic, cut into dice pieces and serve 
cold. 

133 







November 




29. — Oriental Rabbit Pie. 

Clean and cut a rabbit into small pieces 
and let stew, well seasoned with salt and 
pepper and cayenne. Add 2 chopped cloves 
of garlic, 1 chopped green pepper, 1 Spanish 
onion sliced thin and 2 sliced tomatoes, a 
pinch of cloves and allspice. Then line a 
pie-dish with a puff paste ; let bake and fill 
with the rabbit ; add 2 chopped hard-boiled 
eggs and sprinkle with curry-powder. Cover 
with the paste ; brush the top with a beaten 
egg and let bake until brown. Serve hot. 



30. — Spanish Baked Fish. 
Season a pike; put in a baking-pan. Pour 
over two ounces of melted butter and 1 pint 
of sour cream ; then let bake in a hot oven 
for twenty minutes. Sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs and grated cheese and let brown on 
top. Serve hot. Garnish with parsley. 




DECEMBER 

i. — English Plum Pudding. 
Soak i pound of stale bread in hot milk; 
then add l / 2 pound of sugar, i pound of 
seeded raisins, and i pound of currants all 
dredged with flour, y^ pound of chopped cit- 
ron, i pound of finely chopped beef suet, i 
nutmeg grated, i tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
cloves and mace mixed together, a pinch of 
salt, i glass of wine and i glass of fine brandy. 
Mix with the yolks of 8 eggs and the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into 
a wet cloth dredged with flour; tie well and 
let boil five hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

2. — Swedish Rice Pudding. 

Mix y± cup of rice in i quart of milk ; 
add i cup of sugar, a pinch of salt and 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into a pudding- 
dish. Put bits of butter over the top and let 
bake in a moderate oven until done. Serve 
cold. 

135 






December 






3. — Portugal Soup. 

Boil 2 pounds of beef and 2 pig's feet in 4 
quarts of water ; season with salt and pepper. 
Let boil well. Add 1 head of lettuce, y 2 
head of cabbage, a few thin slices of pump- 
kin, 2 carrots and 1 clove of garlic, all cut 
fine, and 1 herb bouquet. Let all cook until 
lender ; then add ]/ 2 can of peas. Remove 
the meat; cut into thin slices; season, and 
serve with the soup. 

4. — Chinese Salad. 
Mix 2 dozen cooked oysters with 3 truffles, 
and 2 cooked potatoes cut into shreds; 
season with salt and pepper. Add all kinds 
of chopped herbs, and moisten with white 
wine. Line the salad bowl with crisp lettuce 
leaves ; fill with the mixture ; sprinkle with 
finely chopped parsley. Pour over a mayon- 
naise dressing and garnish with anchovy 
fillets. 

5. — Egyptian Salad. 

Mix highly seasoned cold cooked rice with 

some grated onion, chopped parsley and 

chives ; add 2 dozen fine cut French 

sardines. Put on crisp lettuce leaves in a 

136 




December 



salad bowl and cover with a mayonnaise 
dressing Garnish with thin shreds of red 
beets, and serve. 

6. — English Dumplings. 
Beat 3 yolks of eggs with i tablespoonful 
of sugar; add ]/ 2 cup of finely chopped 
suet, y 2 cup of currants, y 2 teaspoonful of 
salt and a little nutmeg. Sift i cup of flour 
with i heaping teaspoonful of baking- 
powder ; mix well with the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Make into dumplings the size of 
an egg; let steam. Serve hut with lemon 
sauce. 

7. — Irish Pancakes. 
Mix y 2 pound of sifted flour with 2 beaten 
eggs, a pinch of salt, a pint of milk and 
y 2 ounce of melted butter. Mix well to a 
smooth pancake batter and fry in hot lard to 
a delicate brown. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and serve hot. 

8. — English Cream Pudding. 

Line a well-buttered pudding-dish with a 
rich puff- paste and bake. Then beat 1 cup 
of butter with y z pound of pulverized sugar. 
137 






December 




Add the grated rind and juice of a lemon 
and beat well with the yolks of 6 eggs ; add 
the whites beaten to a froth. Fill the pud- 
ding-dish with the mixture and bake until 
done. 

9. — Bavarian Roast Turkey. 

Clean and season a fat turkey. Stuff with 
3 raw potatoes, 2 apples and 1 onion grated. 
Mix with a lump of butter and 1 cup of bread- 
crumbs; add 1 egg. Season with sage, 
thyme, salt and pepper; then put in a drip- 
ping-pan. Pour in 1 cup of water and 
dredge with flour. Let bake in a hot oven 
until done. 




10.— Jewish Stewed Cabbage. 
Shred a red cabbage very fine. Heat 2 
tablespoonfuls of drippings in a pan ; add 
the cabbage; cover and let stew with 2 apples, 
and 1 onion chopped fine. Then brown 
1 tablespoonful of flour in hot butter ; add 
]/2 cup of water mixed with vinegar. Season 
with salt, pepper and sugar to taste. Pour 
the sauce over the cabbage ; let simmer ten 
minutes. Add y? cup of red wine ; let boil 
up and serve hot. 

138 




December 



ii. — Venison a la Francaise. 

Season venison steaks with salt, pepper 
and lemon-juice. Put in a saucepan with 2 
tablespoonfuls of hot butter. Add 1 onion, 
2 bay-leaves, 1 clove of garlic and a sprig of 
parsley minced fine. Let brown ; then add 
y 2 can of mushrooms, some thyme chopped 
fine and a glass of claret. Cover and let 
simmer until tender. Serve with toasted 
croutons and currant jelly. 

12. — Italian Macaroni. 

Boil macaroni in salted water until tender. 
Drain. Then heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a saucepan ; add the macaroni, y 2 cup of 
chopped boiled tongue, y 2 cup of chopped 
mushrooms, y 2 cup of grated cheese.. 
Cover, let get very hot. Then mix a highly 
seasoned tomato-sauce with a small glass of 
wine; let boil up and pour over the macaroni. 
Serve hot with roast veal. 

13. — Russian Stuffed Tongue. 

Take fresh beef-tongue ; make an incision 

with a sharp knife and fill with chopped 

onions, bread-crumbs, a lump of butter, sage, 

13!) 






December 





thyme, salt and pepper. Sew up and let boil 
until nearly done. Remove the skin. Then 
stick cloves all over the tongue, and let cook 
until tender. Add 2 tablespoon fuls of vinegar 
and 1 tablespoonful of butter. Serve, gar- 
nished with sliced beets, olives and sprigs of 
parsley. 

14. — Hungarian Dumplings. 
Mix 2 eggs with 1 tablespoonful of water, 
a pinch of salt and enough sifted flour to 
make a stiff dough. Roll out on a well-floured 
baking-board as thin as possible. Cut into 
three-inch squares and fill with the following 
mixture : 1 cup of cottage cheese ; mix with 
1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 beaten eggs, 
sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Fill 
the dumplings, press the edges well together. 
Boil some milk, seasoned with a pinch of salt 
and sugar to taste. Lay in the dumplings 
and boil until done. Serve with the sauce. 




15 — German Stewed Fish. 

Clean the fish. Cut into large slices; salt 

well and sprinkle with black pepper and let 

stew with sliced onion, some celery and 

parsley. Add a few slices of lemon; let 

140 




December 



cook fifteen minutes to the pound ; then mix 
i tablespoonful of flour with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter; add to the fish. Let cook five 
minutes more and serve hot or cold. 

16. — French Stuffed Partridge. 

Clean, singe and draw young partridges. 
Season and stuff each bird with chopped oys- 
ters well seasoned, and sprinkle with parsley. 
Put a small piece of butter in each bird ; 
place the birds in a baking-pan ; cover with 
thin slices of bacon ; add a little hot water 
and bake in a hot oven until done. Serve 
with toast. 

17. — Russian Pickled Herring. 
Soak 1 dozen herring over night in water; 
then mash the milch and roes and mix with 4 
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. Put the her- 
ring in a large dish with 2 large onions sliced ; 
make alternate layers of herring, onions and 
sliced lemon, 8 bay-leaves, a few cloves, whole 
peppers and some mustard seed. Pour over 
all some vinegar. Ready to serve in five 
hours. "Will keep for one week. Serve with 
boiled potatoes. 

141 







December 






18. — Hungarian Duck. 
Season and roast the duck; then cut into 
pieces for serving. Chop the giblets; add to 
the gravy in which the duck was roasted, 
with i glass of red wine, }£ teaspoon ful of 
paprica, a pinch of cloves and the juice of a 
lemon. Let boil; add the sliced duck and 
let simmer until tender. Serve hot ; garnish 
with fried croutons. 

19. — Venison a la Parisienne. 

Cut venison into pieces. Heat 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; add 1 onion, 1 bay-leaf, 
2 sprigs of parsley, and 2 of thyme, all chopped 
fine. Add the venison, salt and pepper. Let 
all fry a few minutes ; then add 1 cup of 
consomme and let simmer until tender. Add 
l / 2 glass of sherry and y 2 can of chopped 
mushrooms. Let all get very hot and serve 
with toasted croutons. 

20. — Jewish Boiled Fish. 

Clean and season a large fish with salt and 
pepper and let cook with 1 cup of vinegar, 1 
large onion, 2 sprigs of parsley and 2 of thyme, 
1 tablespoonful of butter, y 2 cup of rai- 
sins, a few cloves, 1 lemon sliced and 1 tea- 
142 




December 



spoonful of prepared mustard. Let cook until 
done. Remove the fish; add 2 large pickles 
chopped and y£ cup of sugar, and thicken with 
the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Serve hot or 
cold, garnished with parsley. 

21.— English Stuffed Duck. 

Clean and season the duck ; then chop the 
giblets. Add 1 onion, some celery and pars- 
ley. Mix with 1 cup of bread-crumbs and a 
beaten egg. Season this highly and fill the 
duck. Put in the dripping-pan with some 
hot water, y 2 glass of sherry and a lump of 
butter. Sprinkle with flour ; bake until done. 
Serve with apple-sauce. 

22. — French Stewed Rabbits. 

Skin and clean the rabbits ; cut into pieces 
at the joints; season well. Heat 2 table- 
spoonfuls of drippings in a stew-pan ; add the 
rabbits, 1 onion and 2 cloves of garlic sliced 
fine, 1 bay-leaf, 2 sprigs of parsley and thyme. 
Let all brown a few minutes ; then add 1 cup 
of hot water and cook slowly until tender. 
Thicken the sauce with flour and butter; add 
a glass of claret ; boil up and serve. 
143 










December 

23. — Italian Salad. 
Cut 1 pound of cooked veal in very small 
pieces ; add 1 herring that has been soaked 
in milk, 3 cooked potatoes, 2 pickles, 3 boiled 
beets, 3 apples, 2 stalks of celery, 1 cooked 
carrot. Pour over a mayonnaise dressing 
and garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs, 
olives and capers. 

24. — Hungarian Stewed Pigeons. 

Season the pigeons and stuff with chopped 
chicken. Let stew slowly with chopped 
onions, chives, celery and parsley; add salt 
and paprica to taste. Cook until tender. 
Serve hot with beet salad. 

25. — Vienna Baked Goose Breast. 

Take the breast of the goose and cut the 
meat from the bone; chop fine with some 
onion, 1 clove of garlic, parsley and a little 
thyme, salt, black pepper and paprica. Mix 
with 2 eggs and fine bread-crumbs. Put the 
chopped breast mixture back on the bone. 
Place in a baking-dish ; pour over some drip- 
ping; sprinkle with flour and bake until 

brown. Serve with sour apple compote. 
144 



December 



26. — Italian Veal and Macaroni. 

Season tender veal cutlets with salt and 
red pepper and saute in hot olive-oil ; then 
cover and simmer until tender. Boil mac- 
aroni until tender; drain. Add the macaroni 
to the veal with 1 cup of stock, and 3 table- 
spoonfuls of chopped cheese. Let all sim- 
mer ten minutes. Put on a platter and cover 
with bread-crumbs fried in butter. Serve 
hot. 

27. — French Squirrel Fricassee, 
Cut the squirrels into pieces at the joints; 
sprinkle well with salt; let lay one hour; 
then sprinkle with pepper and lemon-juice. 
Put 2 large tablespoonfuls of dripping in a 
pan ; when hot, lay in a squirrel with 1 
sliced onion ; cover and let brown. Then 
add 1 cup of tomato-sauce, some celery seed 
and chopped parsley and 1 cup of hot water- 
Let simmer until tender. Add ^ glass of 
sherry wine. Let get very hot and serve 
with French peas. 

28. — Irish Mutton Stew. 

Season mutton-chops with salt and pepper ; 

put a tablespoonful of hot drippings in a 
145 







December 




saucepan ; add the chops, some sliced tur- 
nips, potatoes and onions, salt and pepper. 
Then cover with water and cook slowly until 
tender. Thicken the sauce with a little flour 
mixed with }i cup of milk. Season to taste 
and serve very hot. 




29. — German Bread Pudding. 

Crumb a stale loaf of bread to make 2 cup- 
fuls and soak in 1 quart of milk. Beat the 
yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cup of powdered 
sugar; add the bread, a small cup of raisins 
and the grated peel of a lemon. Mix all 
well. Put in a well-buttered pudding-dish 
and bake until brown. Beat the whites with 
a pinch of salt, sugar and a little lemon -juice 
spread on the top. Let get light brown in 
the oven. Serve with wine sauce. 




30. — Hungarian Spice Cakes. 

Sift 1 pound of flour; beat the yolks of 4 
eggs with 1 pound of sugar; add y 2 ounce 
cinnamon, J^ ounce of ginger, ^ teaspoon - 
ful of cloves, some grated lemon peel and a 
pinch of salt. Make all into a dough and 
roll into small cakes about an inch in diam- 
146 




December 

eter. Put on well-buttered baking-plates, 
sprinkled with flour, and bake in a moderate 
oven until a rich brown. Serve with wine. 

31.— French Braised Sweetbread. 
Parboil the sweetbreads; drain. Put in 
the baking-pan with a piece of salt pork, 1 
onion, 1 carrot, 1 b:iy-leaf and a sprig of 
thyme, all cut fine. Sprinkle with pepper, 
dredge with flour; add y 2 cup of stock. Let 
cook in the oven until done. Serve with 
mushrooms. 






INDEX 




Austrian Dishes 

Apple Omelet, 38. 
« Strudel, 28. 
Baked Eggs, 115. 
Braised Tongue, 15. 
Goulasch, 1. 
Potato Dumplings, 4. 

Bavarian Dishes 

Apple Pie; 84. 
Cabbage Salad, 29. 
Cheese Cake, 91. 
Fried Brains, 83. 
Fruit Compote, 87. 
Pear Pudding, 4. 
Potatoes, 92. 
Roast Turkey, 138. 
Sauerkraut, 1 30. 
Stuffed Chicken, 120. 
Wine Soup, 7. 

Belgian Dishes 

Baked Bananas, 44. 
Broiled Quail, 131. 
Chicken, 1 13. 
Eggs, 96. 

Fried Calf s Feet, 58. 
Land) Chops, 37. 
Poached Eggs, 84. 



Potato Salad, 12. 
Rice Dessert, 4. 
Roast Lamb, 56. 
Stuffed Shad, 32. 
Sweet Potato Puree, 128. 
Veal Cutlets, 61. 
" Scallop, 54. 

Dutch Dishes 

Apple Pudding, 92. 
Baked Fish, 55. 

" Mackerel, 18. 
Biscuits, 98. 

EggS 7- 

Prune Pudding, 69. 
Rice Fritters, 1 14. 
" Pudding, 127. 
Salad, 93. 
Stewed Fish, 37. 
Stuffed Goose, 117. 

" Potatoes, 27. 
Sweet Potato Puff, 22. 
Veal Stew, 82. 

English Dishes 

Boiled Pudding, 46. 
Buns, in. 
Chicken Salad, 75. 
Chocolate Pudding, 77. 
Creamed Asparagus, 70. 



149 






Index 






Cream Pudding, 137. 
Dumplings, 137. 
Gems, 2. 

Ham Sandwiches, 72. 
Layer Cake, 127. 
Meat Loaf, 44. 
Muffins, 52. 
Peach Pie, 106. 
Pigeon Pie, 125. 
Plum Pudding, 135. 
Roast Veal, 60. 
Salad, 63. 
Stuffed Duck, 143. 

" Goose, 7. 
Tarts, 89. 
Tea Cakes, 90. 
Yorkshire Pudding, 77. 

French Dishes 

Almond Pudding, 106. 
Apple Fritters, 46. 
« Pie, 108. 
" Souffle, t,t,. 
Baked Apple Dump- 
lings, 82. 
" Omelet, 74. 
Praised Sweetbread, 147. 
Bread Pudding a la 

Caramel, 121. 
Boulettes, 23. 
Chicken a la Bechamel, 
132. 
" alaTartare, 59. 
" Croquettes a la 
Reine, 130. 
Chocolate Biscuits, 58. 
Codfish a la Lyonnaise, 
1. 




Compote de Bannanes, 

105. 
Duck aux Champignons, 

24. 
Eels a la Poulette, 116. 
Fish a la Marseilles, 28. 

" a la Normandie, 

38. 
Float, 70. 

Fried Cucumbers, 88. 
Fritters, 113. 
Frozen Milk Punch, 87. 
Halibut a la Toulonaise, 

128. 
Lemon Cookies, 62. 
Lettuce Salad, 115. 
Liver a la Bourgogne, 

68. 
Mushrooms a la Borde- 

laise, 40. 
Orange Compote, 99. 
Oysters a la Toulonaise, 

132. 
Parisian Chicken, 55. 
Pineapple Bisque, 5. 
Pop-overs, 95. 
Prune Souffle, 67. 
Roast with Carrots, 42. 
Rolls, 57. 

Spiced Venison, 21. 
Squirrel Fricassee, 145. 
Stewed Quail, 120. 

" Rabbits, 143. 
Strawberry Pudding, 78. 
Stuffed Partridge, 14 1. 
Tart, 47. 

Turkey Soup, 1 18. 
Veal Croquettes a la 
Reine, 78. 



150 



Index 






Veal Hash, 73. 

" Souffle, 12. 
.Venison a la Francaise, 

139. 
" a la Parisienne, 

142. 
" Pie, 131. 
Waffles, 33. 

German Dishes 

Apple Cake, 72. 
Baden Stewed Lentils, 24 
Baked Cabbage, Si. 
Boiled Noodles, 55. 
Berlin Herring Salad, 20. 
Bread Pudding, 146. 

" Tarte, 103. 
Cheese Pie, 79. 
Cherry Soup, 88. 
Egg Toast, 95. 
Herring Salad, 57. 
Iced Beer Soup, 97. 
Lentil Soup, 21. 
Liver Dumplings, 104. 
Potato Pancakes, 60. 
Pot Roast, 86. 
Prune Kuchen, 42 

« Pudding, 39. 
Spiced Rabbit, 126. 
Stewed Brains, 47. 
" Fish, 140. 
Stuffed Turkey, 119. 
Sweet Pretzels, t>2>- 
Waffles, 114. 

Hungarian Dishes 
Baked Herring, 120. 



Beef Stew, 25. 
Bread Pudding, 43. 
Chicken Soup, 76. 
Duck, 142. 
Dumplings, 140. 
Fried Noodles, 56. 
Fruit Roll, 36. 
Noodle Pudding, 79. 
Spice Cakes, 146. 
Stewed Pigeons, 144. 
Stuffed Goose Neck, 125, 

Irish Dishes 

Apple Pudding, 76. 
Baked Potatoes, 18. 
Batter Cakes, 80. 
Beef Rolls, 53. 
" Stew, 69. 
Cucumber Salad, 96. 
Flummery, 122. 
Ham Omelet, 66. 
Mutton Stew, 145. 
Pancakes, 137. 
Potato Puffs, 96. 

Italian Dishes 

Baked Fish, 116. 
Batter Cakes, 74. 
Bean Polenta, 106. 
Coffee Cream, 66. 
Cooked Eggs, 68. 
Cutlets, 107. 
Ice Cream, 58. 
Macaroni, 139. 
Milanese Vegetable 
Soup 







Index 






Neapolitan Salad, 1 19. 

Potato Balls, 61. 

Kibsotto, 13. 

Roast Beef, 32. 

Salad, 144. 

Soup, 49. 

Spaghetti, 23. 

Stuffed Tomatoes, 63. 

Sugar Cakes, 19. 

Tongue, 39. 

Veal and Macaroni, 

145- 

Veal Pates, 79. 



Jewish Dishes 

Boiled Fish, 142. 
Chrimsel, 99. 
Crebchen Soup, II. 
Dumplings, 49. 
Egg Bread, 41. 
Gefuellte Fish, 107. 
Goose Greeben, 131. 
Kugel, 51. 
Pudding, 59. 
Purim Cakes, 45. 

" Torte, 46. 
Shallet, 26. 
Sour Fish, 105. 
Stewed Brains, 28. 

« Brisket, 36. 

" Cabbage, 138. 

" Goose, 129. 

« Shad, 16. 

" Sweetbreads, 
118. 

11 Tongue, 67. 
Veal Stew, 94. 



Oriental Dishes 

Bombay Broiled Kidney, 
41. 
" Chicken Cro- 
quettes, 100. 
" Spinach, 17. 
Chicken Chop Suey 

(Chinese) 26. 
Chinese Chicken, 3. 
" Chop Suey, III. 
" Noodle Soup, 

64. 
« Salad, 136. 
East India Fish, I. 
Egyptian Cabbage, 6. 

Meat Balls, 3. 
Meat-Pie, 8. 
" Salad, 136. 

Stuffed Pep- 
pers, 90. 
Greek Cakes, 102. 
" Cucumbers, 94. 
" Stuffed Egg- 
plant, 35. 
Hindu Eggs, 65. 

" Oyster Fritters, 

98. 
" Venison, 124. 
India Beef Curry, 121. 
" Canapes, 59. 
" Curried Eggs, 10. 
Indian Rice, 76. 
Japanese Chicken, 123. 
Eggs, 35. 
" Fish, 1 12. 
Rice, 44. 
" Salad, 30. 
Madias Baked Fish, 6. 

152 




Index 



Madras Curried Apples, 
80. 
" Potato Curry, 1 6. 
" Stewed Chicken, 

53- 
Oriental Cabbage, 93. 
" Canapes, 14. 
" Pudding, no. 
" Rabbit Pie, 134. 
" Stewed Prawns, 

«9- 

" Vegetable 
Curry, 64. 
Turkish Pudding, 2. 
" Puree, 5 (. 
" Soup, 40. 
" Stewed Lamb, 

75- 

Polish Dishes 

Apple Dumpling, 85. 
Bread Pudding, 83. 
Chicken Soup, 10 1. 
Chops, 3r. 
Filled Fish, 1 15. 
Poached Eggs, 127. 
Rice Pudding, 129. 
Roast Mutton, 19. 
Shrimp Salad, 91. 
Stewed Beans, 48. 

" Calves' Feet, 
109. 

" Chicken, 80. 

" Tongue, 12. 

Russian Dishes 
Beef Roll, 94. 



Beet Soup, 23. 

Boiled Fish, 9. 

Chicken Patties, 30. 

Fish-Roll, 10. 

Fried Sweetbreads, 85. 

National Soup, III. 

Omelet, 15. 

Pancakes, 5. 

Pickled Herring, 141. 

Pot Roast, 70. 

Relish, 27. 

Rice Pudding, 60. 

Salad, 57. 

Sandwich, 103. 

Stewed Chicken, 18. 

" Duck, 30. 

" Fish, 104. 
Stuffed Tongue, 139. 

Scotch Dishes 

Baked Mutton, 32. 

" Potatoes, 71. 
Cream Muffins, 47. 
Haggis, 14. 
Loaf Cake, 44. 
Omelet, 41. 
Potato Stew, 49. 
Pudding, 61. 
Rarebit, 66. 
Scones, 3. 
Soup, 86. 
Stewed Onions, 81. 

« Tripe, 109. 
Stuffed Eggs, 64. 

Spanish Dishes 

Baked Chicken, IOO. 
" Eggs, 81. 





153 




Index 





Baked Fish, 134. 
Broiled Kidney, 89. 

Steak, 68. 
Cake, 9. 
Canapes, 78. 
Chicken, 91. 
Codfish, 128. 
Dessert, 103. 
Fricasseed Shrimps, 17. 
Fried Chicken, 42. 

« Fish, 126. 

" Potatoes, 87. 
Mushrooms, 21. 
Portugal Iced Pudding, 

75- 
" Salad, 77. 

" Soup, 136. 

" Veal Stew, 65. 
Puffs, 54. 
Relish, 99. 
Rice, 101. 
Roast Veal, 52. 
Salad, 71. 
Steak Roll, 92. 
Stewed Rabbit, 31. 
Tongue, 124. 

Swedish Dishes 

Baked Fish, 1 1 8. 

" Turnips, 43. 
Batter Cakes, no. 
Cabbage, 125. 
Norwegian Fish Pud- 
ding, 35. 
" Fruit Pud- 

ding, 53. 
« Rice, v 8o. 

Salad, 6. 



Norwegian Soup, 102. 

Pie, 34- 

Rice Pudding, 135. 

Salad, 133. 

Stewed Chicken, 115. 

" Mutton, 34. 

" Veal, 107. 

Swiss Dishes 

Baked Eggs, 16. 
Beet Salad, 100. 
Biscuits, 113. 
Creamed Potatoes, 1 1 2. 
Fried Sweetbreads, 123. 
Pancakes, 89. 
Peach Custard, 72. 
Pie, 45. 

Potato Dumpling, 85. 
Pot Roast, 40. 
Roast Turkey, 117. 
Steak, 20. 
Veal Pie, 101. 

Viennese Dishes 

Baked Goose Breast, 

144. 
Cheese Torte, 56. 
Cherry Cake, 84. 
Dumplings, 129. 
Filled Apples, 108. 
Milk Rolls, 48. 
Noodle Pudding, 22. 
Nut Torte, 29. 
Peach Torte, 8. 
Potato Salad, 73. 
Rice Custard, 88. 
Roast Beef, 132. 
Stewed Carrots, 9. 



l.">4 




BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05676 926 6 



*%4 ? * /7 ^ 









f**} c^^i te^l M4 














W**f? &W^l ^H^^/ &tff 







iN'/ <**¥ 







IRNER BOOK SHOP 

2 FOURTH AVENUE 
EW YORK 3, N. Y. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 




The Arlliur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 



Miss Rosasiond Lamb 





3^5 

Foreign Dishes 



A Foreign Dish for every 
day in the year 




PHILADELPHIA 

GEORGE W. JACOBS & CO. 

PUBLISHERS 



TO 



Copjrieht, 1908, by 

GxoaoB W. Jacobs ft Comfant 

naUthed Stfltmttr, igo8 



Ail HghU raervcd 
Fiinted in U. S. A. 



JANUARY. 



I. — Austrian Goulasch. 
Boil a calves' heads in salted water until 
tender; thea cut the meat from the bone. 
Fry I dozen small peeled onions and 3 
potatoes, cut into dice pieces; stir in i 
tablespoonful of flour and the sauce in which 
the meat was cooked. Let boil up, add the 
sliced meat, i leaspoonful of paprica and salt 
to taste ; let all cook together fifteen minutes^ 
theu serve very hot. 

X — East India Fish. 
Slice yi pound of cooked salmon ^ then 
heat I ounce of butter in a stew-pan ; add 2 
small onions chopped fine, i ouuce of 
cocoauut, 3 hard-boiled eggs chopped. I«t 
cook a few minutes, then add 1 pint of milk ; 
let boil up once. Add the fish, i teaspoon- 
ful of curry paste, t teaspoonfiit of paprica 





Janaaiy 



and salt to taste. Let cook a few minutes, 
then stir in i large tablespoonful of boiled 
rice. Serve verj' hot with toast 

3. — English Gems. 
Cream i cup of butter with 2 cups of 
brown sugar ; add 4 beaten eggs, i teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in i large cup of strong 
coffee, I cup of molasses, 4 cups of sifted 
flour, yi teaspoonful each of nutmeg, allspice, 
cloves and mace, 3 teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar sifted with ^ cup of flour, i cup of 
raisins, yi cup of currants and chopped 
citron. Mix well and fill buttered gem pans 
yi full and bake until done. Then cover 
with chocolate icing. 

4. — Turkish Pudding. 
Dissolve }i box of gelatin ; chop }^ pound 
of dates and mix with a ounces of boiled 
rice, J4 cup of pulverized sugar and i tea- 
spoonful of vanilla ; then mix the geladn 
with 1 pint of whipped cream. Mix all well 
together and turn int. a mold and stand on 
ice until cold. Sprinkle with chopped nuts. 
Serve with whipped cream. 



Jaxmars 

5. — Chinese Chicken. 
Cat a fat chicken into pieces at the joints; 

season with all kinds of condimeots ; then 
put in a deep saucepan. Add some chopped 
ham, a few sliced bamboo sprouts, i chopped 
onion and a handful of walnuts. Cover with 
hot water and let stew slowly until tender. 
Add some Chinese sauce and paisley. Serve 
with shredded pineapple. 

6. — Scotch Scones. 
Sift 1 1^ pints of flour ; add a pinch of salt, 
I teaspoonful of soda mixed with i pint of 
sour milk. Mix to a soft dough. Lay on a 
well-floured baking-board and roll i inch 
thick. Cut with a round calte-cutter and 
bake on a hot greased griddle until brown on 
both sides. Serve hot with butter. 

7- — Egyptian Meat Balls. 
Chop I pound of raw beef; season with 
salt, pepper and i teaspoonful of curry- 
powder ; add % stalks of chopped celery, 
I small onion and some chopped parsley. 
Mix with 3 beaten eggs and j4 cup of bread- 
crumbs, and make into small balls. Let 





January 

cook in hot butter until tender. Serve on a 
border of boiled rice and pour over all a 
highly seasoned tomato-sauce. 

8.* — Austrian Potato Dumplings. 
Peel 5 potatoes and boil whole in salted 
water until tender. Drain, let get cold, then 
grate them and mix with 4 ^gs and i ounce 
of butter ; add salt to taste. Mix well ; add 
flour enough to form into dumplings and fry 
in deep hot lard until brown. Serve hot with 
cooked fruit, 

g. — Belgian Rice Dessert. 
Cook I pint of milk; add }i cup of 
boiled rice and some currants; stir in the 
yolks of 2 eggs well beaten with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Remove from the fire. 
Add I teaspoonful of vanilla ; then form into 
cylinders. Dip in beaten egg and fine 
bread-crumbs and fry a golden brown. 
Sprinkle with pulverized sugar and put some 
red currant jelly on top and serve. 

la — Bavarian Pear Pudding. 

Soak yi loaf of bread and press dry. 

Mix with % pound of chopped suet ; add a 




tcaspoonfut of salt, i cup of sugar, a cgga 
and the grated peel of a lemon, a piucb of 
cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Add some 
sifled flour ; mix well, and form into a large 
ball. Then peel i quart of pears. Cut in 
half, and lay in a large saucepan a layer of 
pears; sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and 
grated lemon peel. Lay in the pudding; 
cover with a layer of pears and pour ovo' all 
3 tablespoon fuls of syrup. Fill with cold 
water and boil half an hour ; then bake three 
hours and serve hot. 

II. — French Pineapple Bisque. 
Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with i cup of 
pulverized sugar ; add i pint of cream ; stir 
well until very light. Then add t small can 
of shredded pineapple and crush a few 
macaroons. Mix well with a small glass of 
brandy. Let freeze and serve in small 
glasses. 

IX — Russian Pancakes. 

Make a pancake batter and fry in thin 

cakes. Then spread them with a layer of 

anchovies, butter and a layer of caviare. 






January 

Sprinkle with minced shallots, cayenne pep- 
per and lemon-juice. Roll up and serve hot 
as possible. 

13. — Egyptian Cabbage. 
Parboil 2 cabbage ia salted water ; drain 
and stuff with chopped cooked mutton. Mix 
with chopped ham, i onion and 3 sprigs of 
parsley chopped fine. Add ^ cup of cooked 
rice, salt and pepper to taste. FUce in a 
buttered baking-dish; sprinkle with bits of 
butter ; add the juice of a lemon, and let 
bake in a moderate oven until done. Baste 
often with butter and serve hot. 

14. — Madras Baked I^sh. 
Season a fish with salt, pepper, some grated 
green ginger and curry-powder. Place in a 
baking-pan with i sliced onion, 3 chopped 
green peppers and i sprig of parsley. Pour 
over some water and hot melted butler; 
sprinkle with flour and bake until done. 
Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. 

15. — Norwegian Salad. 

Cut some pickled herring into pieces and 

mix with flaked lax, 3 peeled apples and 3 




boiled potatoes. Cut into dice pieces ; add 
some chopped shallotsand gherkins; sprinkle 
with finely minced tarragon and chervil, salt 
and pepper. Cover with a plain salad 
dressing. 

i6. — Dutch Eggs. 
Heat some butter in a pan ; then break in 
as many ^gs as needed and fry them ; add 
some sliced onions. Remove the eggs to a 
platter; arrange the onions on the eggs; 
sprinkle with salt and red pepper and pour 
over some lemon-juice. Serve as hot as pos- 
sible OD toast. 

17. — Bavarian Wine Soup. 
Mix 3 pints of red wine with i print of 
water. Add sugar, nutmeg and cinnamon to 
taste and the grated peel of half a lemon. 
Let come to a boil; then stir in the yolks of 
3 wellbeaten eggs. Do not boil again. 
Serve hot with biscuits. 

18. — English Stuffed Goose. 

Season a fat goose with salt and pepper, 

and rub well with vinegar. Then core small 

apples and fill the goose with the whole ap- 





pics. Put in the baking-pan, sprinkle with 
flour J pour over i cup of hot water ; add a 
lump of butter and bake until done. Baste 
often with the sauce in the pan. Serve the 
goose with the whole apples. 

19.— Vienna Peach Torte. 
Make a rich pie-dough ; then line a pie- 
dish with the dough. Pare and remove the 
stones from the peaches and cut into quar- 
ters. Lay closely on the pie; sprinkle with 
brown sugar and moisten with wine. Bake 
in a moderate oven until done. Then spread 
with a meringue and let brown in the oven a 
few minutes. 

ao. — ^yptian Meat-Pie. 
Line a large baking-dish with pie-dough. 
Have ready J^ pound of calf's liver chopped, 
and 14 pound of fresh pork chopped fine. 
Season highly and mix with ^ cup of butter, a 
green peppers, i onion chopped and J^ can 
of chopped mushrooms. Moisten with a 
glass of sherry. Fill the dish with the mix- 
ture and cover with the dough. Let bake 
until done and s< 




Janaajy 

ai. — Russian Boiled Fish. 
Clean and season a whole fish and let txnl 
with I sliced onion, ^ cup of vinegar, a few 
slices of lemon and a sprigs of parsley. Add 
a tablespoonful of butter and let cook until 
tender. Remove the fish to a platter ; mix 
the sauce with i tablespoonful of brown 
sugai, a pinch of ginger, cinnamon and nut- 
meg and (hejuiceof alemon. Let boil well; 
then thicken with the yolks of a beaten eggs 
and pour over the fish. Serve cold. Gar- 
nish with lemon-slices and olives. 

aa. — Spanish Cake. 
Beat I pouud of buttei with i pound of 
sugar to a cream. Add the yolks of 8 eggs 
well beaten. Sift i pound of flour with 3 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and stir to- 
gether with I cup of milk. Add the whites 
of eggs, beaten to a stiff frolh with a pinch 
of salt. Flavor with rose-water. Bake in a 
moderate oven until done. 



23. — Vienna Stewed Carrots. 

Peel some carrots and cut in small pieces. 

B(»l in salted water until tender; drain. 



Janaaty 

Brown i tablespoon ful of flour in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; add J^ cup of the water 
in which the carrots were cooked, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and a little sugar. Let 
all boil ; then add the carrots and i cup of 
cooked peas, some chopped parsley and a 
pinch of pepper. Simmer ten minutes and 
serve hot. 

24 Russian Fish-Roll. 

Chop some cooked trout and white fish, 
and mix whh J^ cup of boiled rice. Season 
with salt, pepper and all kinds of herbs 
minced fine. Then make a rich pie-paste 
and roll out very thin. Fill with the mix- 
ture and make into a roll. Sprinkle with 
bits of butter and let bake until brown. 
Serve hot v 



25.— India Curried Eggs. 
Cut hard-boiled ^gs in halves ; then fry 
I small chopped onion and i chopped apple 
in hot butter; add ^ cup of pounded 
almonds and 1 pint of milk, mixed with ^ 
tablespoon ful of cornstarch. Season with 
salt and a dessertspoonful of ctirry-powder. 




Januaiy 

Let cook ten minutes ; then add the ^^ 
Let all get very hot. Serve with croutons; 
garnish with fried parslejr. 



26. — Codfish a la Lyonnaiae. 
Cut cold boiled codfish in pieces; then 
boil 8 small onions until soft ; heat 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Add the boiled onions, 
3 small cold sliced potatoes, the codfish and 
I cup of milk ; sprinkle with pepper. 
Cover and simmer ten minutes and serve 
hot. 

37.— Jewish Crebchen Soup. 
Beat 3 eggs with 2 ublespoonfuls of water 
and a pinch of salt ; then add enough flour 
to make a stiff dough. Work it well with 
flour and roll out as thin as possible ; fold 
it double and cut into square pieces and fill 
with minced cooked chicken or veal. 
Sprinkle with chopped parsley and bits of 
butter; fold in the edges. Have ready 
some soup stock ; when boiling, add the 
crebchen and let boil until done. Serve 
with the soup. 




Jsamiry 

38.— French Veal Souffltf. 
Heat 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. Mix 
with 3 tablespoonfuls of Hour until smooth ; 
add I cup of millc ; let boil up. Then add 
t cup of minced veal, some parsley, salt, 
pepper and nutmeg to taste. Stir in the 
yolks of 3 ^gs. Remove from the fire ; let 
cool. Beat the whites to a stiff froth ; add 
to the meat. Put in a buttered baking-dish 
and bake twenty minutes. Serve at once. 

39. — Belgian Potato Salad. 
Slice cold boiled potatoes very thin and 
mix with chopped celery and onion ; season 
with salt and pepper. Then mix the yolks 
of 3 hard-boiled eggs with i Ublespoonful of 
olive-oil. Add to the salad with 3 table- 
spoonfuk of vinegar. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and serve. 

30. — Polish Stewed Tongue. 

Cook a fresh tongue until tender; skin 

and slice thin. Put a large spoonful of 

butter in a saucepan ; add a chopped onion ; 

I let brown. Then stir in i ublespoonful of 

flour; add a cups of the water in which the 




Janaafs 

tongue was cooked, a pinch of nutmeg and 
cianamon. Let boil with the juice of t 
lemoDi 3 tablespoonfiits of vinegar and i 
tablespoonful of sugar. Add the sliced 
tongue and simmer ten minutes. Serve hot 
or cold. 

31. — Rissotto (Itauan), 
Boil 1 cup of nee in salted water until 
soft ; drain. Then grate Parmesan cheese 
and cover the rice with cheese. Let steam 
in the oven a few minutes ; then pour over 
some highly seasoned tomato-sauce, and 
serve hot with fried veal chops. 




FEBRUARY. 



t. — Oriental Canapes. 
Take some lobster or crab-meat and ponnd 
in a mortar. Mix with i tablespoonful of 
butter ; season with salt and pepper, a pioch 
each of mustard, cayenne, nutmeg and curry- 
powder and moisten with lemon -juice. 
Cut smalt rounds of toasted bread; scoop 
out some of the centre ; fill with the mixture 
and cover with a curry sauce. Sprinkle 
with fine bread-crumbs and let bake in the 
oven a few minutes. Serve hot, 

3.— Haggis (Scotch). 
Chop a sheep's tongue, liver and heart 
and 1 pound of bacon. Add a large 
chopped onions ; season with ^ teaspoonful 
of red pepper and i teaspoonful of mixed 
herbs and salt to taste. Mix with r pint of 
toasted oatmeal, 3 beaten eggs and the grated 




FeBruAry 

rind and juice of a lemon. Then clean the 
pouch of the sheep and fill with the mixture. 
Lay in boiling water and let boil three hours. 
Serve with apple-sauce. 

3.^ — Austrian Braised Tongue. 
Boil a lai;ge fresh beef tongue in salted 
water until tender. Remove the tongue and 
lard it with thin strips of bacon ; sprinkle 
with paprica ; lay in a baking-pan ; add i 
onion sliced thin and i cup of the water in 
which the tongue was cooked and pour over 
I pint of cream. Let bake in a moderate 
oven. Baste often with the sauce. Serve 
hot, and pour over the sauce ; garnish with 
parsley. 

4. — Russian Omelet. 
Chop a shallots with a tittle parsley and 
cook in hot water. Add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of caviare and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice ; 
season to taste. Beat 4 eggs with i table- 
spoonful of cream, salt and pepper, and fry 
in an omelet-pan with hot butter until done. 
Put the mixture in the centre ; turn in the 
ends and serve at once. 





Fdmtary 

5.— Madras Potato Curry. 
Cut boiled potatoes into thio slices ; then 
fey I chopped onion in 3 tablespooofuls of 
butter. Add 3 ounces of grated cocoanut, 
I teaspoonful of cuiry-powder and i cup of 
milk, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 
Let boil up. Add the sliced potatoes and a 
sprig of parsley chopped. Let simmei a few 
minutes and serve hot. 

6. — Swiss Bailed Eggs. 

Melt I ounce of butter in a baking-p^; 
then cover the bottom of the pan with thin 
slices of Swiss cheese. Break in 6 eggs; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Pour over 4 
tablespoonfuls of cream ; sprinkle with grated 
Swiss cheese, and let bake in the oven to a 
delicate brown. Serve hot. 

7.— Jewish Stewed Shad. 

Clean and cut a shad into large slices; 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and ginger. Put 
on to boil with i sliced onion, 1 bay-leaf, a 
few doves, 2 sprigs of parsley and J^ cup of 
vinegar. When done, remove the fish to a 
platter ; add ^ cup of raisins, i ublcspoonful 




F^raary 

of butter, ^ cup of pounded almonds, i 
gliLss of wine, i tablespoouful of brown sugar 
and a pinch of cinuamon. Let boil until 
done and pour over the fish. Garnish with 
sliced lemOQ and sprigs of parsley and serve 
cold. 

8< — Bombay Spinach. 
Boil the spinach in salted water until 
tender ; drain and chop fine. Fry i chopped 
onion in a tablespoonftils of butter ; add the 
chopped spinach, a pinch of pepper and 
curry-powder. Cover and let simmer five 
minutes. Serve on a platter with stewed 
prawns and garnish with croutons. 

9. — Spanish Fricasseed Shrimps. 
Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add t 
onion chopped and 2 cups of tomatoes. Let 
fry; then stir in r tablespoonful of flour; 
add J^ cup of water ; let boil ; add i quart 
of shrimps, salt, pepper and parsley. Let 
all cook twenty minutes. Stir in the yolk of 
an egg. Remove from the fire. Put some 
boiled rice on a platter; add the shrimps 
and pour over the sauce. Serve very hot 





F^raary 



la — Irish Baked Potatoes. 
Peel and boil potatoes in salted water until 
tender; drain and mash with a lump of but- 
Put in a well-buttered baking-dish a 
layer of Che potatoes and a layer of fried 
bread-crumbs until dish is full. Moisten 
with beaten eggs, well seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and 3 tablespoon fuls of milk. 
Put in the oven to brown. Serve with boiled 
fish. 

II. — Russian Stewed ChickeD. 
Cut a fat chicken into pieces at the joints 
I and let stew, well seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Then add some small whole onions, 
some cauliflower, mushrooms and i cup of 
French peas. Let all cook until tender; 
then serve hot on a large platter. 

13. — Dutch Baked Mackerel. 
Place the mackerel in a baking-dish; 
sprinkle with pepper and chopped parsley. 
Cover with fried bread-crumbs and bits of 
butter, and moisten with cream. Then bake 
until brown on top and serve hot with stewed 
potatoes. 



Febmary 

13.— Polish Roast Mutton. 

Season a leg of mutton with salt, pepper 
and a pinch of cloves. Lay in a baking- 
pan with 1 sliced onion, 2 celery roots, 3 
doves of garlic and 2 carrots cut fine, i 
bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme and a few pepper- 
corns. Pour over i cup of vinegar and 1 
cup of hot water. Dredge with flour and let 
bake in a hot oven. Baste often with the 
sauce in the pan until nearly done; then add 
I pint of sour cream and let bake until done. 
Thicken with flour ; boil up and pour over 
the roast. 

14. — Italian Si^ar Cakes. 

Beat ij4 pounds of sugar and }i pound 
of butter to a cream ; add 4 yolks of eggs, a 
pinch of salt and nutmeg. Stir in J4 pound 
of flour, 4 ounces of currants, 3 ounces of 
chopped almonds, i tablespoonful of citron 
and candied orange peel chopped fine. Add 
the whites beaten stiff and bake in small well- 
buttered cake-tins until done; then cover 
with a thin icing. 

15. — Oriental Stewed Prawns. 
Clean and pick 3 dozen prawns. Heat 




February 

some dripping in a Urge saucepan ; add the 
prawns, i chopped onion, salt, pepper and i 
teaspoonful of curry-powder. Add i pint of 
slock and let simmer half an hour until 
tender. Serve on a border of boiled rice; 
garnish with fried parsley. 

i6. — Swiss Steak. 
Season a round steak with salt, black 
pepper and paprica; dredge with flour and 
let fry in hot lard on both sides until brown. 
Then add some sliced onions and moisten 
well with tomato-sauce. Cover and let sim- 
mer half an hour. Serve hot on a platto: 
with mashed potatoes. 




17. — Berlin Herring Salad. 
Soak the herring over night ; remove the 
milch and mash fine. Cut off the head, 
skin and bone; chop the herring; add 
chopped apples, pickles, potatoes, olives 
and capers. Put in the salad bowl; then 
add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg to the 
mashed milch, mustard, i teaspoonful of 
sugar mixed with ^ cup of vinegar and a 
little lemon-juice, salt and pepper. Pour 



Febmsiy 

the sauce over the salad and garnish with 
olives and sliced lemon. 

i8. — German Lentil Soup. 
To I gallon of soup stock, add r quart 
of lentils. Let boil until lentib ace soft, 
with I sliced onion. Then add some small 
sausages. Let boil five minutes. Season 
to taste and serve the soup with the sausages 
and croutons fried in butter. 

19. — French Spiced Venison. 
Rub the venison with salt, pepper, 
vinegar, cloves and allspice; then put in 
a baking-pan. Pour over a cup of melted 
butter; add i Onion sliced, some thyme, 
parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a cup of 
hot water. Let bake, covered, in a hot 
oven. Baste often with the sauce when 
nearly done. Sprinkle with flour; add a 
glass of sherry and let brown. Serve with 
celery and currant jelly. 

30. — Spanish Mushrooms. 

Drain i can of mushrooms and heat 3 

tablespoonfuls of butter. Add 6 shallots 

and I clove t£ garlic chopped fine, some 





Febmary 

pBiBley and thyme aad the mnshrooms. 
Let all Try a few minutes; then add the 
mushroom liquor and a tablespoonfuls of 
white wine, salt and pepper to taste. Let 
simmer live minutes and serve hot on slices 
of toast. 

31, — Vienna Noodle Puddii^. 
Boil some fine noodles in salted wata' for 
ten minutes; let drain. Beat the yolks of 
5 eggs with i cup of pulverized sugar and 
mix with the noodles. Add ^ cup of 
raisins, ^ cup of pounded almonds, a 
pinch of cinnamon and the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a froth. Put in a weil-buttered 
pudding-dish and bake until brown. Serve 
hot with lemon sauce. 

32.— Dutch Sweet Potato Pu£F. 
Peel and boil 3 sweet potatoes in salted 
water until tender; then mash well with 
3 beaten yolks of eggs, i cup of milk, 3 
tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sngar, a pinch of nutmeg and lemon-juice. 
Beat the whites with a pinch of salt to a stiff 
froth; add to the potatoes and put in a 




Fthma3j 



well-bnt ered baking-dish and bake. Serve 
hot. 

33. — Spaghetti (Italian). 
Boil % pound of spaghetti UDtil tender. 
Drain. Heat i tablespoonful of butter, stir 
in yi pound of grated cheese, salt and pepper. 
Then add 1 cup of milk ; let boil and pour 
over the spaghetti. Sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and grated cheese and let bake in 
the oven until done. Serve hot. 

24. — Russian Beet Soup. 
Boil 5 medium-sized beets until tender; 
then chop and add to a highly seasoned 
chicken broth. Add the juice of i lemon, 
some cinnamon and nutmeg ; let boil fifteen 
minutes. Then add i glass of red wine, 
mixed with a tcaspoonful of brown sugar. 
Let boil a few minutes longer and serve with 
fried croutons. 

25. — Boulettes. 

Chop and mince 1 pound of round steak, 

I onion and 2 sprigs of parsley. Add i 

tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 3 tablespoon- 

fuls of melted butter. Season highly with 





Fdffoaty 

salt, black pepper and a pinch of cayenne. 
Mix with I egg and form into bails ; roll 
in flour and fry in deep hot lard until brown. 
Serve hot with tomato-sauce. 

3& — Baden Stewed L.entils. 
Boil 1 quart of leotib until tender; then 
heat 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. Add t 
chopped onion and stir in i tablespoonful 
of flour until brown; add some cold water 
mixed with vinegar. Let boil and pour 
the sauce over the lentils. Season with salt 
and pepper, and serve with small boiled 
sausages. Sprinkle the top with bread- 
crumbs fried in butter until brown. 

37. — Dack aux Champignons. 

Clean and season a pair of wild ducks 

and cut into pieces at the joints. Heat 2 

tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan ; add 

the ducks, i large onion chopped fine, a 

cloves of garlic and i herb bouquet chopped. 

Cnrnv anA Vimiyn a fcw miuutes J add I cup 

itew until tender. Then add 

■brooms and i glass of daret 

until done. 



February 

aS. — Hungarian Beef Stew. 
Cut beef into small pieces. Heat some 
dripping in a saucepan ; add the meat, salt 
and black pepper ; cover and let stew half an 
hour. Then add 3 potatoes cut into dice 
pieces, i onion sliced thin, i cup of hot 
water, and ^ teaspoonful of paprica. Let 
all cook until tender. Then add some 
chopped parsley and thicken the sauce with 
flour, mixed in % cup of milk. Let cook a 
few minutes and serve hot 



tlARCH. 



I. — Chicken Chop Suey (Chinese). 

Cut all the meat of a chicken into thin 
strips ; season with black pepper, and cay- 
enne, and fry in hot lard. Add some ham, 
onion, celery, green bean sprouts and mush- 
rooms cut fine. Moisten with )4 cup of 
stock. Add }s( cup of Chinese sauce ; covei 
and let simmer until tender. Thicken the 
sauce with flour j add a tablespoonfuls of 
cream and chopped parsley. Serve hot on a 
platter with boiled rice. 

a^-Jewish Shallot. 
Line a well-buttered pudding-dish with a 
rich pie-paste and cover with a layer of sliced 
apples. Sprinkle with cinnamon, grated 
lemon peel and small bits of butter, and 
moisten with white wine; then cover with a 
layer of the paste and till with another layer 




AEmA 

of apples, nuts and raisins, a tablespoonful 
of syrup, the juice of }4 lemon and bits of 
butter. Cover with the top crust ; press in 
the edges vrith a beaten egg, and rub the top 
with butter. Let bake in a nioderate oven 
until done. 

3, — Russian Relish. 
Cut some slices of brown bread into fingers 
half an inch thick ; spread with butter. Mix 
some Russian caviare with lemon-juice to 
taste and a tablespoonful of finely chopped 
shallots. Spread the fingers with the mixture 
and place an oyster in the centre of each. 
Sprinkle with salt and a pinch of paprica. 
Serve. Garnish with thin slices of lemon 
and parsley. 

4.— Dutch Stuffed Potatoes. 
Select fine smooth potatoes; cut off the 
end of each and scrape out the inside. Mix 
this with chopped ham, onion and parsley, 
and a tablespoonful of butter. Season with 
salt, pepper and lemon-juice. Fill the potato 
with the mixture and let bake in a moderate 
oven until tender and serve hot. 




March 

5. — Fish a la Marseilles. 

Cut two kinds of fish into slices ; season 
with salt. Mince 3 cloves of garlic, 2 sprigs 
of parslejr, 2 sprigs of thyme and a bay- 
leaves very line. Add a pinch of pepper. 
Roll the fish in the spice. Then fry 2 sliced 
onions in butter; add i cup of tomatoes, the 
juice of a lemon and 2 cups of water. Let 
boil up. Add the fish and let boil until 
done. Remove the fish to a platter. Add a 
cup of white wine to the sauce and i table- 
spoonful of sugar. Boil up and pour over 
the fish. Serve with toast. 

6.— Jewish Stewred Brains. 

Clean and stew the brains with ^ cup of 
nnegar, i sliced onion, salt and pepper. 
Add a tablespoonful of brown sugar, yi cup 
of raisins. Let stew until tender. Remove 
the brains to a platter; add a lump of butter 
and a tablespoonful of molasses to the sauce ; 
boil up and pour over the brains. Serve 
cold ; garnish with lemon slices. 

7. — Austrian Apple Strudel. 

Mix I pint of Hour with 3^ cup of water, 

4 ounces of butter, 3 eggs and a pinch of salt 




March 

to a stiff dough ; then roll out as thin as pos- 
sible. Pour over some melted butter; cover 
with chopped apples and raisins. Sprinkle 
with sugar and cinnamon. Make a large 
roll; bake in a buttered baking-pan with 
flakes of butter on top until brown. 

8.— Vienna Nut Torte. 
Blanch % pound of almonds and pound 
in a mortar. Then beat 4 eggs with ^ cup 
of sugar. Add i teaspoonful of brandy and 
a teaspoonful of wine and lemon-juice; add 
4 lady fingers crumbled up fine. Beat all to- 
gether with the nuts; put in a well-buttered 
pudding-dish and bake. Serve with wine 



9. — Bavarian Cabbage Salad. 
Chop a cabbage with i large onion and a 
stalks of celery and 2 peppers ; season well 
with salt and sprinkle with pepper. Heat 
some vin^ar ; add a teaspoonful of prepared 
mustanl. Then beat the yolks of 2 eggs 
with a tablespoonful of sugar ; add the hot 
vinegar slowly to the beaten eggs and mix 
with the cabtxtge. Serve cold. 




March 

lo. — Russian Stewed Duck. 
Clean and cut the duck into pieces and 
season with salt and pepper; then cut ^ 
pound of bacon into dice pieces and put in a. 
large saucepan with i onion and 2 carrots. 
Cut fine I herb bouquet, a few cloves and a 
few peppercorns ; add the duck. Let all 
cook slowly with i cup of stock until tender j 
then add i cup of red wine. Thicken the 
sauce with floui, boil and serve hot. 

II. — Russian Chicken Patties. 
Chop the white meat of cooked chicken 
and turkey very fine and mix with 3 chopped 
truffles and some chopped parsley. Season 
with the grated peel of ^ lemon, a pinch of 
nutm^, salt and pepper to taste, and moisten 
with cream. Make a puff-paste and roll out 
very thin. Cut into squares and fill with a 
tablespoonful of the mixture. Press^tbe ends 
together and fry in deep hot lard until a light 
brown. Drain and serveveryhot with tomato- 
sauce. 

I a. — Japanese Salad. 
Cut some celery, apples and trufiles into 



JbrA 

fine shreds and mix with chrysanthemum 
floirers ; season with salt and pepper. Put 
in a salad bowl and cover with a mayonnaise 
dressing. Garnish with chopped hard-boiled 
eggs and olives. 

13. — Polish Chops. 
Season veal chops with salt and pepper and 
let fry a. few minutes in hot dripping. Re- 
move the chops and cover with a mixture of 
bacon, Uver, onions and parsley minced fine 
and well seasoned. Then let bake in the oven 
with I cup of beef broth. Baste often and 
serve very hot. 

14 — Spanish Stewed Rabbit. 
Clean and parboil 2 rabbits ; then cut 
into pieces. Sprinkle with flour and fry in 
hot lard. Remove the rabbits. Add chopped 
tomato and onion to the sauce; mix with 
flour; let fry; add the sauce in which the 
rabbit was cooked, some lemon-juice, j4 
teaspoonful of red pepper, paisley and salt 
to taste. Cook ten minutes; then add the 
rabbit and simmer five minutes. Serve hot 
with boiled rice. 




March 

15. — Scotch Baked Mutton. 
Season a leg of mutton well with salt and 
peppor. Dredge with flour and let bake in 
a hot oven until nearly done. Then add 
some boiled turnips cut in quarters ; sprinkle 
with pepper and flour; let bake until 
browned. Serve the mutton on a platter 
with the turnips. 

16.— Belgian Stuffed Shad. 
Season and stuff the shad with chopped 
oysters and mushrooms well seasoned. Place 
in a well-buttered baking-dish ; sprinkle with 
fine bread-crumbs, chopped onion and pars- 
ley. Put flakes of butter on top and pour in 
I cup of tomato-sauce. Let bake until done. 
Baste often with the sauce. Serve with celery 
salad with French dressing. 

17. — Italian Roast Beet 
Cut several deep incisions in the upper 
round of beef and press into them lardoons 
of salt pork. Stick 2 cloves of sliced garlic 
and I dozen cloves in the meat ; season with 
salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Put 
in the dripping-pan with some hot water and 




March 

let roast until tender. Serve with boiled 



18.— French Apple Souffle. 
Cook apples and sweeten to taste. Mash 
well with I tablespoonful of butter. Beat the 
yolks of 3 eggs with 2 tablespoon fuis of sugar, 
the juice and rind of yi lemon; add the 
whites beaten to a stiflF froth. Put in a but- 
tered pudding-dish and bake in a moderate 
oven until done. 

19. — German Sweet Pretzels. 
Mix }4 pound of flour with J^ pound of 
fresh butler ; add J^ pound of sugar, i egg 
and J beaten yolk, i tablespoonful of sweet 
cream and some grated lemon peel. Mix 
thoroughly and mold the dough into small 
wreaths; brush the top with the yolk of 
an egg and sprinkle with powdered sweet 
almonds. Lay in a well-buttered baking-tin 
and bake until a deep yellow. 

20. — French Waffles. 

Sift 3 cups of flour with ij4 tcaspoonfuls 

of baking-powder and }4 teaspoonful of salt. 

Heat the yolks of 3 eggs ; add a tablespoon- 





MikA 

fill of melted butter and a cups of warm 
milk. Add the beaten whites and stir in the 
flour, making a light batter. Grease the 
waffle irons and fill with the batter. Bake 
until a delicate brown. Remove to a hot 
dish. Serve hot with powdered sugar on 
top. 

31. — Swedish Stewed Mutton. 
Season the breast of mutton with salt, 
pcpper> thyme and mace; let stew slowly 
with I onion and a cloves of garlic chopped. 
Add some chopped capers and mushrooms ; 
cook until tender. Then thicken the sauce 
with flour mixed with a glass of wine and 
boil up. Serve hot with baked turnips. 

aa. — Swedish Pie. 
Make a rich pie-dough ; line a deep pie- 
dish with the paste and let bake. Then fill 
with chopped boiled fish, oysters, shrimps 
and some chopped mushrooms. Sprinkle 
with salt and paprica and the grated peel of 
a lemon. Pour over J^ cup of melted butter 
and the juice of J^ lemon and a beaten egg. 
Then cover with the dough and let bake 
until done. Serve hot. 



Mafch 

33^— Greek Stuffed Egg-Plaot. 

Parboil the egg-plant and cut in half. 
Scrape out some of the inside and chop 
some cooked lamb, 2 green peppers, i onion, 
and 3 tomatoes. Then mix with a beaten 
^g, I tableapoonful of butter, salt and pepper 
to taste. Fill Ibe halves with the mixture ; 
sprinkle with bread-crumbs and bits of butler. 
Put in a baking-dish with a little stock and 
bake. 

34. — Norwegian Pish Pudding. 

Remove the bones from a large cooked 
fish and chop to a fine mince. Mix with 
2 beaten eggs, 2 tablcspoonfuls of cream, i 
tablespoonfut of butter, season with salt, 
black pepper and ^ teaspoonful of paprica. 
Beat well together with some bread-crumbs; 
fill a mold with the pudding and let steam 
one hour; then boil the sauce in which the 
fish was cooked, add i tablespoonful of but- 
ter, chopped parsley and chopped onion. 
Season highly; boil and serve with the 
pudding. 

35.— Japanese Eggs. 
Cook some rice in a rich chicken stock: 





March 

place on a platter. Fry 6 eggs and trim 
neatly ; sprinkle with salt, black pepper, 
chopped paisley and lemon-juice. Put the 
eggs on the rice and pour a little hot tomato- 
over the base of the platter and serve. 



06. — ^Jewish Stewed Brisket. 
Boil beef brisket until tender, and slice 
thin. Heat 3 tablespoonfulsof butter; add 
I chopped onion. Stir in i tablespoonful of 
flour until brown. Add the water in which 
the meat was cooked, ^ cup of raisins, }4 
cup of vinegar, i tablespoonful of brown 
sugar and some cinnamon and 1 carrot sliced 
thin, salt, pepper and a few cloves. 1^ boil. 
Add the brisket and simmer fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot or cold. 

27. — Hungarian Fruit Roll. 
Make a pie-dough. Roll out and spread 
with melted butter, raisins, currants, chopped 
apples, nuts and shredded citron. Cover 
well with brown sugar and sprinkle with 
cinnamon and the grated peel of a lemon. 
Roll up the dough. Lay in a buttered 
baking-pan. Rub the top well with melted 




Warch 

butter and let bake until brown. Serve with 
wine sauce. 

38.— Dutch Stewed Fish. 
Cook a large fish with i onion, a stalks of 
celery, parsley, a tablespoonful of butter, salt 
and pep[)er until done. Remove fish to a 
platter. Add 3 chopped pickles, the juice 
and rind of a lemon, % cup of vinegar. 
Mash the yolks of 2 boiled eggs with i raw 
egg, a teaspoonful of prepared mustard and 
a tablespoonful of butter. Add to the sauce 
and boil. Lay the fish in the boiling sauce 
ten minutes ; then serve. 

ag. — ^Belgian Lamb Chops. 
Season lamb chops; dredge with fiour and 
fry until brown ; keep hot. Fry i chopped 
onion and i small carrot in two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Add i tablespoonful of flour; 
stir until light brown. Add ^ cup of water; 
let boil well ; add parelcy, a few cloves and 
peppercorns, salt and pepper and i bay-leaf 
minced fine. Boil well. Add i glass of 
claret; then pour the sauce hot over the 
chops, and garnish with French peas. 





March 

30. — Austrian Apple Omelet. 
Peel, core and slice some apples vety thin. 
Heat I large tablespooDful of butter in a fry- 
ing-pan; put in the apples and let them 
steam until tender. Make an egg omelet 
batter; sweeten to taste and pour over the 
apples; let cook until set. Cover thickly 
with sugar and sprinkle with cinnamon. 
Serve hot with wine sauce. 

31. — Pish a la Normandie. 
Boil a trout well seasoned ; add t sliced 
onion, i carrot chopped, 2 sprigs of parsley 
and I bay-leaf, a few peppercorns and i 
tablespoonful of butter. When done, beat 
the yolks of 2 eggs with a little cream ; add 
salt and a pinch of cayenne. Remove the 
fish to a platter. Mix the egg sauce with the 
water in which the fish was cooked; add >^ 
cup of cream. Let get very hot and pour 
over the fish. Garnish with paisley. Serve 
hot. 




APRIL. 



1— Italian Tongue. 
Boil a beef tongue uotil tender; skin and 
slice thin. Heat a tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Add I chopped ooion and 2 cloves of garlic 
minced tine. Stir in i tablespoonful of flour 
until brown; add a little water, i cup of 
tomato-sauce, ^ cup chopped mushrooms, 
lemon-juice, salt and pepper to taste. Let 
boil. Add the sliced tongue, and >^ glass 
of sherry wine. Simmer ten minutes. Serve 
with baked macaroni. 

2. — German Prune Pudding. 
Cook I pound of prunes iu a large sauce- 
pan with sliced lemon, a piece of stick 
cinnamon and brown sugar. Soak % loaf 
of bread in water; press out dry. Add 3 eggs, 
^ teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice. Add fiour sifted with a teaspoonful 
of baking-powder. Make into a large roll ; 





April 

place in the centre of the pmnes ; cover with 
brown sugar and a tablespoonful of molasses 
and put in the oven to bake until done. 
Strve hot or cold. 

3. — Swiss Pot Roast. 
Season a breast of veal with salt, pepper 
and ginger. Heat a cupful of dripping; 
lay the meat in the stew-pan with the drip- 
ping, I onion, some celery seed, carroway 
seed, a few peppercorns and paisley. Cover 
and let stew slowly until nearly done ; then 
add I cup of tomato-sauce and cook slowly 
until tender. Serve with baked potatoes. 



4. — Mushrooms a la Bordelaise. 
Drain i can of mushrooms ; chop 6 shallots 
very fine and saut£ in 1 tablespoonful of 
butter. Add the chopped mushrooms ; ' 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, some chopped 
parsley and i minced bay-leaf. Let cook 
ten minutes with J^ glass of sherry wine. 
Serve hot on slices of French toast. 

5. — Turkish Soup. 
Season and fry some lamb chops; add 9 




April 

green peppers sliced thin, i onion chopped 
and an herb bouquet. Then cook ^ cup of 
barley in i quart of soup stock until tender. 
Pour all together and let cook until meat is 
very tender. Serve hot. 

e. — Scotch Omelet. 
Boil young tender leeks in salted water; 
let drain. Chop to a fine mince and fry in 
hot butter. Add 6 well-beaten eggs, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and fold into an omelet 
and serve on a hot dish. 

7. — Jewish Egg Bread. 
Soak some matzoths in milk for a few 
minutes; then dip them into seasoned 
beaten eggs. Add a pinch of sugar and let 
them fry in hot rendered butter until a 
golden brown. Sprinkle with pulverized 
sugar and cinnamon and serve hot with 
coffee. 

8. — Bombay Broiled Kidney. 

Clean sheep's kidneys and cut into thin 

slices. Sprinkle with salt, cayenne pepper 

and grated lemon peel. Then dip in beaten 

egg and fine bread-crumbs and broil on a hot 




AprU 

greased gridiron. Serve on buneied toast, 
spreiid with curry paste. 

g. — German Prune Kucheo. 
Boil some prunes until tender. Remove 
the kernels and mash the prunes well. Mix 
with sugar, ciiinamon and lemon-juice to 
taste. Make a rich biscuit dough, roll out 
and place <m a well-butteied baking-pan. 
Fill with the prunes and let bake until done. 
Serve cold. 

10.— French Roast with Carrots. 
Lard a round of beef with slices of bacon 
and put in a large saucepan. Cover and let 
brown a few minutes. Add sliced onion and 
boiling water to cover. Let cook slowly until 
tender ; then scrape 6 carrots and cut thin ; 
add 3 sliced onions, 2 cloves of garlic and let 
cook until tender. Thicken with butter and 
flour. Season highly with salt, pepper and 
parsley ; add to the meat, and let all cook to- 
gether a half hour and serve hot. 

II. — Spanish Fried Chicken. 

Cut a fat hen into pieces at the joints and 

boil until tender ; season and fry with i onion 




April 

aod 3 green peppers chopped fine. Add i 
cup of tomato-sauce, salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve the chicken on a platter with boiled 



la. — Hungarian Bread Puddii^. 
Chop yi cup of suet. Mix with J^ loaf of 
stale bread that has been soaked and pressed 
dry. Add i cup of chopped apples, i cup 
of sugar, ^ cup of chopped raisins and nuts. 
Sprinkle with cinnamon, nutmeg and grated 
lemon peel ; then mix with the yolks of 4 
eggs and the whites beaten stiff. Put in a 
well-buttered pudding-dish, and let bake until 
done. Serve hot with wine sauce, 

13. — Swedish Baked Turnips. 
Peel small tender turnips; heat i table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan. Place the 
turnips in whole, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per ; add a tablespoonful of sugar. Pour 
over a cup of water ; cover and let cook for one 
hour until tender but not broken. Thicken 
the sauce with flour and milk. Add a little 
water and set in the oven a half hour, cov- 
ered with paper ; then serve. 





April 

14.— Belgian Baked Bananas. 

Skia fine bananas and lay tlicoi whole in a 
baking-dish. Sprinkle with sugar and grated 
lemoD peel. Add the juice of 1 oraDge, yi 
lemon and ^ glass of sherry wine. Let bake 
in a quick oven. Put the bananas in a glass 
dish and pour over the sauce. Let get cold 
and serve. 

15.— Japanese Rice. 

Boil I cup of rice ; add 3 chopped shal- 
lots, I teaspoonful of soy and salt to taste. 
Place on a platter, cover with chopped hard- 
boiled eggs, sprinkle with salt, paprica and 
chopped parsley. Garnish with some thin 
slices of smoked salmon. 

16 — Scotch Loaf Cake. 
Mix yi pound of butter with ^ pound of 
sugar, ^ cup of chopped nuts and ^ cup of 
shredded citron ; then work in i pound of 
sifted flour with a teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Make a loaf a half inch thick and 
bake in a moderate oven until done. 
17.— English Meat Loaf. 
Chop cooked veal and boiled ham ; place 
a well-greased mold alternate layers of 




AfM 

veal, ham aod hard-boiled tggi. Sprinkle 
with pepper, mace and chopped paisley. 
Moisten with beef-stock and let bake in the 
oven. Serve cold, sliced very thin, garnished 
with watercress. 

i8. — ^Jevrish Purim Cakes. 
Beat I cup of sugar with ^ cup of butter 
to a deam ; add a beateu eggs, a pinch of 
salt, ^ cup of milk and the grated peel of ^ 
lemOQ. Add enough sifted flour with i tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder to make a soft 
biscuit dough. Put on a well-floured baking- 
board. Roll out a half inch thick. Cut 
triangles and drop in a kettle of hot rendered 
butter ; fry until a golden brown. Then mix 
some powdered sugar with a little milk and 
flavor with vanilla. Spread on the top. 

ig. — Swiss Pie. 
Make a rich pie-dough. Line a buttered 
pie-dish with the dough; then slice three 
onions very thin and let cook in hot butter 
until tender ; add a pinch of salt. Fill the 
pie with the onions, cover the top with cream 
and let bake in a moderate oven until done. 
Serve hot or cold. 






ApHl 

no. — French Apple Prittera. 
Feel and slice large apples ; sprinkle mth 
sugar and tcmon-juice and loake a rich egg 
batter. Sweeten to taste and flavor with a 
tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water. Lay 
the sliced apples in the batter and fry in deep 
hot lard to a golden brown. Serve with wine 



31.— Jewish Purim Torte. 
Ijne a well-buttered baldng-dish with a 
rich pie-paste. Thenmix i cup of fine poppy- 
seeds with the yolks of 5 eggs and ^ cup of 
sugar, some chopped raisins and nuts and the 
juice of % lenion. Add the whites beaten 
stiff; then fill with the mixture and let bake 
until done. 

23. — English Boiled Pudding. 
Mix j4 pound of butter with J^ pound of 
powdered sugar to a cream. Add the yolks 
of 6 eggs beaten, % cup of seeded raisins and 
some chopped citron, a pinch of nutmeg and 
cinnamon. Mix in ^ pound of sitied flour 
and }i teaspoonfol erf' baking-powder. Add 
the whites, beaten to a stiff froth ; put in a 




April 

buttered pudding-mold, and let boil until 
done. Serve with brandy sauce. 

33. — German Stewed Brains. 

Clean the brains. Heat I tablespoonful 
of drippings in a pan; add the brains, i sliced 
onion, some parsley, salt and pepper. Let 
stew fifteen minutes. Thicken the sauce with 
butter and flour ; let boil up. Serve hot with 
spinach and sprinkle all with chopped hard- 
boiled eggs. 

24. — Scotch Cream Muffins. 
Sift I pint of flour with i teaspoonful of 
baking-powder; beat three yolks of ^gs with 
a pinch of salt; add i pint of cream and i 
tablespoonful of melted butter. Stir in the 
flour; add the whites beaten to a stiff &oth. 
Beat all well together. Fill the muffin-rings 
^ full and bake in a quick oven for twenty 



35.— French Tart 
Make a rich pie-dough. Line a large pie- 
dish with the paste and bake. Take 3 ounces 
of almonds and pound to a paste ; add 3 ta- 





ApM 

blespOMifuls of pulverized sugar, a table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, ^ teaspoonful of 
cinnamon and the yolks of a ^gs well 
beaten with i tablcspoonful of rum. Add the 
beaten whites ; fill the pie and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Then make a glac6. Mix i 
ounce of granulated sugar with i tablespoon- 
ful of cold water and let come to a boil. 
Put on the pie when cool and serve. 

26.— Polish Stewed Beans. 
Break string-beans into pieces and let boil 
in salted water until tender ; then heat i ta- 
blespoonful of butter ; stir in i tablespoonful 
of flour until brown. Add the water in which 
the beans were cooked, ^ cup of vinegar, i 
tablespocmful of brown sugar, some cinnamon 
and cloves to taste. Let sauce boil. Add 
the beans and simmer ten minutes. Serve 
hot with a beef pot roast 

37.— Vienna Millc Rolls. 
Sift \yi quarts of flour; add % teaspoon- 
ful of salt; work in a large tablespoonful of 
butter; then stir in % cup of milk with a 
piece of yeast dissolved in the milk and a 
tnspoonful of sugar. Beat all up well with 




April 

I pint of milk ; let raise over night. Roll out 
an inch thick ; cut with a biscuit-cutter ; rub 
with melted butter ; lay in a buttered baking- 
pan ; let raise ooe hour ; then bake in a hot 
oven twenty minutes. 

aS.— Scotch Potato Stew. 
Cut the potatoes into small dice pieces and 
fry in hot lard. Then fry i onion cut fine 
in hot butter, but do not brown ; stir in some 
flour; then add milk, salt, pepper and pars- 
ley. Let boil up once and add the potatoes 
to the sauce. X^ all get very hot and serve. 

39.— -Jewish Dumplings. 
Soak 6 crackers in water; then press dry. 
Fry I chopped onion in butter and pour over 
the crackers. Add 3 eggs and chopped pais- 
ley ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and nutmeg. 
Mix all with some cracker-meal until you can 
form into balls and boil in salted water until 
done. Serve hot with melted butter poured 
over them, and garnish with parsley. 

30. — Italian Soup. 

Chop some cabbage and let fry in a table- 

q>Oonfuls of butter ; add ^ cup of rice (dry) 





ApHl 

and I clove of garlic chopped with % small 
^^no onion. Let fry a few minutes; then add 2 
^tz:^ quarts of soup-stocic seasoned with salt, white 
^P^^ pepper and a little saiTron to taste. Add J^ 
sjarrn^ cup of grated Parmesan cheese ; let ail cook 
^— ^ until done. Serve with toasted a 



MAY, 



I. — Tiirkish Purie. 
Boil I cup of lentils with i bay-leaf, 2 sprigs 
of parsley, a pinch of salt and pepper to taste ; 
add some mace and cook until tender. Then 
fry I chopped onion in 3 tablespoonfuls of 
olive-oil ; add the lentils and i cup of cooked 
rice and 1 tablespoonful of butter. Stir well 
together and let get very hot. Put on a plat- 
ter and pour over a highly seasoned tomato- 
sauce and serve. Garnish with fried parsley. 

a.— Jewish Kugel. 
Soak J^ loaf of bread in water ; then press 
it dry. Heat ^ cup of butter and mix with 
the bread ; add a chopped apples, J^ cup of 
raisins, ^ cup of pounded almonds and the 
grated peel of a lemon. Add the yolks of 4 
eggs and the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; 
mix well together. Put in a buttered pud- 





ding-dish and pour over ^ cup of melted 
I butter ; let bake in a moderate oven until 
biowB. Serve hoL 

3. — English Muffins. 
Take i quart of warm milk, ^ cup of 
yeast, i teaspoonful of salt and flour enough 
to make a stiff batter ; let stand to raise until 
light. Then add ^ cup of melted butler, i 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water ; 
add enough flour to make a very stiff batter 
and let raise half an hour. Then fill well- 
greased muffin-rings half full with the batter 
and bake in a quick oven until done. Serve 
with butler. 

4. — Spanish Roast Veal. 
Season a <S-pound veal-roast with salt and 
pepper and rub well with batter; put m the 
dripping-pan with one large sliced onion, i 
bay-leaf, 2 sprigs of parsley and 3 of thyme 
and sage. Add ^ teaspoonful each of cloves, 
allspice and mace. Pour in i cup of hot 
water and the juice of a lemon and dredge 
with flour; add a tablespoonful of butter. 
Let bake until brown and tender. Baste 
often with the sauce and serve. 



May 

S— Madras Stewed Chicken. 
Cut a spring chicken into pieces at the 
joints; season with salt and pepper and frjr in 
hot lard with some tender mutton chops. 
Fry 1 sliced onion in hot butter with 3 
ounces of rice, i teaspoonful of curry-powder 
and I chopped apple ; add to the chicken. 
Moisten with i quart of chicken broth, season 
to taste and let simmer until the chicken and 
mutton are very tender ; then add i pint of 
hot oysters and the juice of ^ lemon. Let 
all get very hot and serve on a platter with 
fried egg-plant. 

6.— Irish Beef Rolls. 

Chqp some fat beef with i onion and 2 
sprigs of parsley. Season with salt, pepper, 
nutm^ and a little mace to taste and the 
grated rind of ^ lemon, i beaten egg and 
yi cup of fine bread-crumbs. Mix all well 
together and shape into rolls. Then heat some 
dripping in a saucepan ; lay in the rolls ; 
cover and let simmer until brown. Serve hot 
with the sauce. 

y. — Norwegian Fruit Pudding. 

Boil I pint of raspberries and i pint of ted 





ctmants in a cups of water until soft; add 5 
cups of sugar, some cmnamou, i cup of 
pounded almonds and i tablespoooful of 
chopped citron. Let coolc and mash until 
smooth \ then thicken with a Uttle cornstarch. 
Remove from the fire and pour into a mold. 
When cold, serve with whipped cream. 

8. — Spanish Pufis. 
Put a large cupfiil of water in a saucepan ; 
add 3 ounces of butter, ^ teaspoonful of salt, 
I tablespoonful of pulverized sugar. While 
boiling, stir in sifled flour until stiff and 
smooth. Remove from the stove and stir in 
the yolks of 4 eggs, one at a time, and the 
beaten whites ; then fry by the teaapoonful in 
boiling lard until browned. Serve with a 
caramel sauce. 

9.— Bel^an Veal Scallop. 
Chop cooked veal to a fine mince ; butter 
a baking-dish and put alternate layers of veal, 
rice and tomato-sauce until dish is full. 
Cover over with fine bread-crumbs; pour 
over some melted butter and let bake in the 
n until brown. Serve with French peaa. 




10. — Parisian Chicken. 
Clean and season 2 spring chickens. Put 
them in a saucepan with 3 tablespoonfula of 
butter; cover and let simmer until brown. 
Add }i can of mushrooms, chopped parsley, 
and I glass of wine; let all cook until done. 
Put on a platter and pour over i cup of hot 
cream. Serve, garnished with croutons. 

II. — Gennan Boiled Noodles. 

Make a stifi* noodle-dough ; roll out very 
thin and cut into ribbons half an inch wide. 
Let them dry and boil in salted water ; drain 
inacolander. Fry some sliced onions in but- 
ter until soft; add the noodles. Stir and 
serve hot with stewed chicken. 

la.— Dutch Baked Fah. 
Clean and split a fish open down the back ; 
remove the backbone ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper ; put in a baking-dish, flesh side up. 
Put flakes of butter on top; sprinkle with a 
little ilour ; moisten with crear 
hot oven until brown. Pour over a Hoi- 
landaisc sauce and serve hot. 





13, — Vienna Cheese Torte. 
Mix I cup of cottage cheese with i table- 
spoonful of cream, i tablespoooful of floui, 
I tablespoonful of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
Bugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, and a pinch of 
salt and cinnamon. Mix all together with 
the whites beaten stiff; then line muffin-rings 
with a rich pastry-dough ; fill with the cheese 
and bake in a moderate oven until brown. 

14. — Hungarian Fried Noodles. 

Beat 3 eggs with a tablespoonfuls of water; 

add a pinch of salt and enough flour to make 

a stiff dough work well. Then roll out as 

thin as paper ; fold the dough and cut into 

round pieces ; fry in deep hot lard to a golden 

brown. Serve hot with stewed chicken. 

15. — Belgian Roast Lamb. 

Season 4 pounds of lamb with salt, pepper 

and lemon-juice; put in the dripping-pan 

with a small chopped onions, i bay-leaf, a 

Sprigs of parsley and thyme ; then pour over 

% cup of butter and dredge with flour. Add 

ter and the juice of a lemon. 

hot oven until done. Serve 



16. — ^Russian Salad. 
Chop ^ pound of cold roast veal with 
J^ pound of smoked salmon, 3 sour pickles, 
2 sour apples, i large onion, some beans 
and capers and 3 hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine. Add some chopped nuts. Season and 
pour over a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish 
with sliced beets and olives ; save cold. 

17. — French Rolls. 
Prepare the dough as for bread. Work 
in }£ pound of butter and ^ pound of 
sugar. Add 4 beaten ^gs ; form into rolb ; 
put in a well-buttered l»king-pan ; let them 
raise half an hour. Brush the tops with beaten 
egg and let bake until done. 

18. — German Herring Salad. 
Soak herrings over night in cold water ; 
remove the milch; cut off the head and 
skin and cut the herring into small pieces ; 
add 3 apples, t pickles, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
1 onion, a few olives, all cut fine. Put into 
bowl ; mash the milch with . 
I teaspoonful of sugar, peppei 
^ cupful of vinegar and e 



May 



gether. Gaulish with sliced lenxni, and 
serve with boiled potatoes. 

19.— Belgian Fried CalFs Feet. 
Clean aod boil the calfs feet until tender; 
season with salt and pepper. Remove the 
large bones from the feet ; beat 3 eggs with 
salt and pepper ; dip the feet in the beaten 
eggs ; then roll in fine bread-crumbs and 
fry in deep hot lard until brown. Serve hot 
with tomato-sauce. 

aa — Italian Ice Cream. 
Whip I quart of cream with 3 cupfuls of 
sugar until stiff. Put in the freezer until 
half frozen ; then add the juice and grated 
peel of 3 lemons, a tablcspoonfuls of fine 
brandy, and a little pisUche coloring. Let 
freeze until hard and serve with cake. 

ai. — French Chocolate Biscuits. 
Beat the yolks of 6 eggs with 10 ounces 
of powered sugar ; add i ounce of powdered 
French chocolate. Mix well with 4 ounces 
of flour and the whites beaten stiff with a 
pinch of salt; add i tablespoonful of vanilU 




May 

extract. Bake on wafer sheets in small cakes 
to a light brown. 

ax — India Canapes. 
Cut slices of bread into delicate circles 
and toast in butter ; then take i ounce of 
chutney and a ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese; spread the toast with ham and the 
chutney and sprinkle with grated cheese. 
Set in the oven a few minutes and serve 
hot, garnished with fried parsley. 

23. — Chicken a la Tartare. 
Season and stew 2 spring chickens with 
I onion, some capers, parsley, i bay-leaf and 
a sprigs of thyme chopped fine until tender. 
Remove the chickens ; add i tablespoonful 
of minced pickles, i teaspoonful of made 
mustard, i teaspoonful of tarragon and ^ 
cup of mayonnaise sauce. Let boil up and 
pour over the chickens. Serve with boiled 
rice. 

24. — Jevrish Pudding. 

Soak 6 matzoth crackers in water ; press 

dry and mix with i tablespoonful of butter, 

a pinch of salt, the yolks of 5 eggs, a sniall 




cup of sugar, some cinnainoo, ^ cup of 
raisins ajid a little grated lemoti peel. Add 
the beaten whites and bake until brown. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

25.— German Potato Pancakes. 
Peel 3 large potatoes and lay in salted 
water half an hour ; then grate the potatoes ; 
add pepper, salt, 3 eggs and a large spoon- 
ful of flour. Beat well togWher and fry in 
hot lard by the tablespoonful until light 
brown. Serve hot with a pot roast. 

26. — English Roast Veal. 
Season a veal loin roast with salt and 
pepper and rub with butter. Put in the 
dripping-pan with sliced onions, tomatoes and 
parsley and 3 tablespoon fu Is of dripping. 
Let roast ; baste often until tender. Serve 
hot or cold, cut into thin slices. 

27. — Russian Rice Pudding. 
Mix cold boiled rice with the juice and 
rind of a lemon, i cup of sugar and ^ glass 
of fine rum ; then press into a mold. Let 
get very cold and serve with cold cooked 
fruit. 




May 

28. — Scotch Pudding. 
Take i quart of black cherries; remove 
the stones and mix with ^ pound of fine 
bread-crumbs, some chopped nuts, the 
beaten yolks of 4 eggs and ]4 cup of sugar. 
Add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in a 
well-buttered pudding-dish and serve cold. 

2g. — Italian Potato Balls. 
Peel and boil potatoes in salted water un- 
til sofl ; drain, and mash smooth. Take a 
pint of the mashed potatoes ; mix with 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and i c^ ; 
add a little flour, and form into balls. Put 
them into a well-buttered baking-pan ; sprinkle 
with grated Parmesan cheese and bake in a 
quick oven to a golden brown. Serve with 
stewed chicken. 

30. — Belgian Veal Cutlets. 
Season veal cutlets; dip in beaten egg 
and roll in fine bread-crumbs. Fry in deep 
hot lard ; keep hot. Chop a few onions 
with a clove of garlic and fry in a tablc- 
spoonful of butter. Stir in i tablespoonful 
of flout until brown ; add a little water and 




die juice of a lemon, salt, pepper and DUt- 
m^ to taste. Let boil well; then remove 
from the fire ; stir in the yolks of 2 eggs, and 
let get very hot; pour over the chops. 
Serve with French peas. 

31. — French Lemon Cookies. 
Beat the yolks of 4 eggs ; add i cup of 
butter and 3 cups of sugar beaten. Add the 
whites beaten stiff and a teaspoonful of lemon 
extract. Add enough flour with a tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder to make a stiff 
dough. Roll out thin ; cut into small 
cookies and bake in a quick oven to a light 




JUNE. 



I. — Italian Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Cut tomatoes in halves; take out some of ' 
the pulp. Fry i large onion in butter, add 
the tomato pulp, a piece of beef-marrow, i 
sprigs of chopped parsley, salt and pepper. 
Remove from the fire; add a beaten egg 
and mix with bread-crumt^ and a pinch of 
nutm^. Then fill the tomatoes, sprinkle 
with buttered bread-crumbs and bake until 
done. Serve on a platter with poached 
eggs. Garnish with c 



3— English Salad. 
Pick, wash and drain a heads of lettuce 
and break into pieces. Mix with some 
watercress, shredded celery and a few leaves 
of mint. Put in a salad bowl, sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, sugar and lemon-juice and pour 
over a salad-dressing. Garnish with slices 
of bard-boiled eggs and pickled beet-root. 






JuM 

3.— Scotch Stuffed ^^[s. 

Boil eggs until hard ; remove the shells. 
Cut out the centres lengthwise ; then chop 
cooked chicken to a fine mince; add the 
yolk of a raw egg and mix with cream. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill 
the eggs and dip them in beaten eggs and 
fine bread-crumbs and fry a light brown. 
Serve hot with cream sauce. Garnish with 
parsley. 

4. — Oriental Vegetable Curry. 

Feel and fry some small onions. Add 2 
stalks of celery, cut into inch pieces ; 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and curry-powder ; 
add a few truffles and pour over all t cup of 
stock. Let stew until tender. Then boil 
some potatoes ; mash smooth with butter and 
season with curry sauce. Place a border of 
mashed potatoes on a platter and put the 
stew in the centre; serve hot. Garnish with 
fried parsley. 

5. — Chinese Noodle Soup. 
Boil a large hen in 3 quarts of water. 
Add a few slices of ham, i onion sliced, 
sliced mushrooms, 2 stalks of celery cut 



June 

fine, 3 tomatoes and Chinese chopped herbs. 
Let cook three hours and strain ; then boil 
up; add fine noodles and let cook ten 
minutes. Add chopped parsley and serve at 
once. 

6. — Hindu Eggs. 
Slice some hard-boiled eggs and place 
in a wcU-buttCTcd baking-dish. Cover with 
well-beaten raw eggs ; sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, cayenne and curry-powder, a few 
bits of butter rolled in bread-crumbs and 
some grated cheese. Let bake in a moderate 
oven until done. 

7. — Portugal Veal Stew. 
Heat 2 tablespoon fuls of olive-oil in a 
stew-pan ; add 3 sliced onions, a clove of 
garlic and a few capers. Let fry a few 
minutes. Stir in i tablespoonful of Hour 
until brown ; add ^ cup of stock ; season 
with salt, pepper, cinnamon, cloves and a 
pinch of saffron. Add i cup of white wine ; 
let boil ; then add cooked veal sliced thin. 
Let cook ten minutes in the sauce and serve 
very hot 





June 

8. — Italian Coffee Cream. 
Mix i^ cups of strong cofTee with ^ cup 
of rich milk in a double boiler; add ^ cup 
of sugar, I tablespoonful of gelatin and a 
pinch of salt. I'hen stir in the yolks of 3 
eggs beaten with yi cup of sugar until it 
thickens. Remove from the fire; add the 
whites beaten to a froth and a teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Pack in a mold and freeze until 
hard and serve with whipped cream. 

g. — Scotch Rarebit. 
Cut % pound of cheese in very small 
pieces and add i ounce of fresh butter, 2 
tablespoon fuls of fine bread-crumbs, i tea- 
spoonful of prepared mustard, salt and pep- 
per and a pinch of cayenne to taste. Mix 
well together to a smooth paste. Have ready 
some buttered toast ; place on a dish, spread 
with the mixture and set in the oven until 
melted. Serve at once, 

10. — Irish Ham Omelet. 

Beat 6 yolks of eggs with a pinch of salt ; 

add the whites beaten stiff and mix with a 

tablespoonful of cream. Beat a ounces of 




Jtme 

butter in an omelet pan ; add the beaten eggs 
and shake the pan to spread evenly. Have 
ready some finely minced ham. Spread on 
half of the omelet, fold and serve at once on 
a hot dish. 

II.— Jewish Stewed Tongue. 
Boil a calf's tongue in salted water until 
tender ; skin and slice thin. Then heat 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter ; add i chopped onion ; 
stir in i tablespoonful of flour until brown ; 
add 3 cups of the water in which the tongue 
was cooked, ^ cup of seeded raisins, a few 
cloves, I bay-leaf, ^ cup of vinegar, and % 
teaspoonful of paprica. Let all boil well; 
then add the sliced tongue. Let simmer ten 
niinutes. Serve hot or cold. 

12. — French Prune Souffle. 
Cook J4 pound of prunes until soft; re- 
move the stones and cut the prunes into small 
pieces. Mix with some chopped nuts and the 
yolks of 3 eggs well beaten with 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of pulverized sugar. Add 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla and the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Put in a pudding-dish and bake in a 
moderate oven for ten minutes and serve. 




Jtmt 

13. — Italian Cooked Eggs. 
Take 6 hard-boiled eggs and cut length- 
wise. Put in a pan with 12 anchovies, 
some onion juice and i tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. Season with salt, white 
pepper and a little nutmeg, grated. Then 
pour over all % pint of sour cream. Let boil 
up once and serve hot with croutons. 

14. — Spanish Broiled Steak. 
Season a porter-house steak with salt and 
pepper and rub with butter. Place on a hot 
gridiron and let broil on a quick fire on both 
sides. Make thb sauce : Chop i onion end 
brown in i tablespoonful of butter ; add % 
cup of stock and ^ cup of claret ; let boil 
well. Season and thicken the sauce with a 
little Hour and some chopped parsley. Let 
boil up and serve at once with the steak. 

15. — Liver a la Bourgognc. 
Season a calf's liver with salt and pepper; 
put a few slices of bacon in a saucepan ; let 
get very hot. Add the liver, r onion, i car- 
rot, 3 bay-leaves and z sprigs of thyme minced 
fine; cover and let brown a few minutes. 




June 

Then add i glass of sherry wine, salt and 
pepper and sprinkle with flour. Let simmer 
ten minutes. Serve hot with potatoes. 

i6. — Messina Macaroni. 
Boil some macaroni in salted water until 
tender. Then &y i onion and 3 cloves of 
gallic chopped in olive-oil. Add r cup of 
tomato-sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Then 
add the macaroni, and let fry altogether. 
Serve hot with baked chicken. 

17. — Dutch Prune Pudding. 
Boil prunes until very soft ; remove the 
stones. Mash well; add the yolks of 4 beaten 
eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, i cup of 
bread-crumbs, i teaspoonful of vanilla, J^ cup 
of chopped nuts, and the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff. Put in a well-buttered pudding- 
dish and bake in a moderate oven until done. 
Serve cold. 

18.— Irish Beef Stew. 
Season a piece of fat beef; put in a stew- 
pan with some hot water. Let cook slowly 
a half hour. Then add 3 potatoes, cut in 





dice pieces, and i onion, sliced. Let cook 
slowly until tender. Add ^ cup of com and 
I cup of tomatoes ; season with salt and pep- 
per. Let all cook until done. Serve hot. 



19.— English Creamed Asparagus. 
Cut tough ends from the asparagus; scrape 
and boil in salted water until tender. Make 
a cream sauce. When done, sdr in the yolk 
of an egg; season with a little white pepper. 
The sauce must be rather thick and poured 
hot over the asparagus. Serve with veal 
chops. 

aa — French Float. 
Line a glass dish with stale sponge-cake. 
Sprinkle with wine. Make a boiled custard. 
Use 4 yolks of eggs and flavor with rose-wa- ' 
ter. Beat the whites with pulverized sugar 
and flavor to taste. Four the custaid over 
the cake and place the stiffly beaten whites 
'ut on the ice and serve very cold. 



31. — Russian Pot Roast. 
Season a round of beef with salt, pepper. 




cloves and nutmeg. Put in a saucepan on 
hot dripping. Feel 6 small onions and slice 
3 canois and 2 cloves of garlic. Add to the 
meat with i herb bouquet. Cover with i 
cup of hot water and let cook slowly until 
tender ; then add y^ can of chopped mush- 
rooms, I glass of claret, salt and pepper to 
taste. Serve hot on a border of mashed po- 
tatoes. 

33. — Spanish Salad. 
Take J^ pound of chopped chicken, ^ 
pound of almonds, i red pepper, i Spanish 
onion and i head of chicory chopped fine. 
Mix in a salad bowl with % leaspoonful of 
salt, I teaspoonful of curry-powder, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of olive-oil. Garnish with sliced beets 
and bananas. 

23.— Scotch Baked Potatoes. 
Peel and slice 6 raw potatoes very thin ; 
then beat i egg with i tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Put the potatoes into a shallow baking- 
dish, sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Add 
enough milk to cover the potatoes ; add the 





June 

beaten egg. Sprinkle ^ cup of grated cheese 
over all and let bake until done. 



24. — German Apple Cake. 

Make a biscuit dough ; roll out very thin 
and put on a well-buttered cake-pan. Have 
ready sorae apples. Cut in quarters ; lay 
closely on the cake ; sprinkle thick with brown 
sugar; add some cinnamon and a handful of 
currants. Pour some fresh melted butter 
over the cake; set in the oven to bake until 
done. Serve with coffee. 

25. — English Ham Sandnriches- 

Cut thiu slices of fresh bread. Chop ham 
with the yolks of z hard-boiled eggs; add 
some made mustard and fresh butter and a 
dash of pepper. Mix all well and spread be- 
tween the slices of bread. Serve on a folded 
napkin and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

26. — Svriss Peach Custard. 

Line a well.buttered pudding-dish with 

slices of sponge-cake and cover with peach 

compote. Make an egg custard and cover 




with the custard ; set in the oven to bake. 
Beat the whites of % eggs with a little lemon- 
juice and pulverized sugar spread on the top 
and let brown. Serve cold. 

37. — French Veal Hash. 
Cut veal round-steak into small pieces. 
Then fry some chopped bacon, i onion and 
a doves of garlic chopped ; add the meat ; 
stir well and let all fry a few minutes. Add 
1 cup of boiling water and let cook slowly 
with some parsley and thyme, salt, pepper, 
until tender. Add a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar. Let boil up ; remove from the fire and 
stir in the yolks of a eggs well beaten. Serve 
hot with toast. 



a8 Vienna Potato Salad. 

Slice boiled potatoes thin ; chop some 
onion very fine ; slice a hard-boiled eggs and 
mix. Sprinkle all with salt and pepper. 
Then heat some vinegar. Add a teaspoon- 
ful of made mustard and stir with the beaten 
yolk of an egg. Mix all together with i 
tablespoonful of hot butter and chopped 
paisley. Serve with cold meats. 




June 

ag.— French Baked Omelet. 
Beat 4 yolks of eggs ; add 6 soda crackers 
crushed fine, salt, pepper, i teaspoonful of 
grated onion, i tablespoonful of butter aod i 
cup of milk. Beat up well ; add the whites 
beaten stifi'; put into a well-buftered baking- 
dish and let bake in a hot oven. Serve at 
once. 

30. — Italian Batter Cains. 
Beat 3 yolks of eggs with i cup of milk, a 
salt-spoonful of salt, i tablespoonful of olive- 
oil and I tablespoonful of sugar. Mix with 
^ cup of flour and the beaten whites of the 
eggs. Fry until light brown. Serve with 
cooked fruit. 




JULY. 



X. — Portugal Iced Pudding. 
Mix I quart of vanilla ice-cream with t 
gilt of wine, ^ pound of Malaga grapes, 3 
ounces of candied orange peel, chopped fine, 
and I pint of whipped cream. Then place 
in the freezer to harden and serve. 

2. — English Chicken Salad. 
Mix I cup of cold chicken cut fine with i 
cup of chopped celery, i cup of cooked 
chestnuts chopped and 2 green peppers cut 
fine. Season with salt and pepper. Put on 
crisp lettuce leaves in the salad bowl ; cover 
with a mayonnaise dressing. Serve cold. 

3.— Turkish Stewed Lamb. 

Season a quarter of a young Iamb and cut 

into pieces. Lay in a large stew-pan and 

cover with hot water. Add 1 sliced onion, 

• ^ced green peppers and 2 tomatoes, i red 





Jfty 

pepper and 2 sprigs of parsley. Let stew 
slowly until tender. Then fry thin slices of 
egg-plant and add to the stew. Serve hot. 

4. — Irish Apple Pudding. 
Pare and slice apples and lay them in a 
buttered pie-dish. Sprinkle with brown 
sugar ; add the juice and rind of ^ of a 
lemon, a pinch of cinnamon and cloves. 
Then cover with a rich pie-paste and let 
bake until done. 

5. — Indian Rice. 
Boil I cup of rice in chicken broth ; add 
a pinch of curry-powder and season to taste 
with salt and pepper. Boil J^ teaspoonful of 
saffron in i cup of the stock ; then let all 
cook slowly until the broth is entirely 
absorbed by the rice. Serve very hot. 

6. — Hungarian Chicken Soup. 
Boil a large chicken in 3 quarts of water ; 
with salt, sage and pepper ; add i 
onion chopped and cook until tender. Re- 
move the chicken and chop it fine ; then 
add to the soup with the yolks of 3 well- 




July 

beaten eggs ; let all get very hot. Sprinkle 
vith chopped parsley and serve at once. 

J. — Yorkshire Pudding. 
Beat 3 eggs with a pinch of salt ; add i 
pint of milk and 5^ of a cup of flour. Stir 
until smooth. Then pour into a well-greased 
pan and bake until done. Serve with Eng- 
lish roast-beef, and pour over the gravy. 

8.— Portugal Salad. 
Slice 3 cucumbers, a tomatoes, i (mion 
and two green peppers. Then sprinkle with 
1 chopped clove of garlic, salt and pepper 
and cover with some thin slices of bread. 
Pour over all a cup of vinegar and % cup of 
olive-oil and serve. 

g. — English Chocolate Pudding. 
Soak 6 ounces of bread-crumbs in milk 
and press dry; add a ounces of butter 
mixed with 3 ounces of sugar and 3 ounces 
of chocolate ; add the yolks of 6 eggs well 
beaten, and flavor with a teaspoonful of 
vanilla; add the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake in a quick oven and serve at 
once. 





My 

10. — Spanish Canapes. 
Prepare circuUr pieces of buttered toast. 
Then mix i cup of chopped fish with 3 sweet 
pickles minced fioe, and 2 tablespoon fu Is of 
Madras chutney ; moisten with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of HoUandaise sauce. Spread this 
mixture over 8 pieces of toast; sprinkle with 
3 ublespoonfuls of grated Pannesan cheese. 
Let bake for five minutes and serve. 

It. — French Strawberry Pudding. 
Dip enough macaroons in wine to line the 
pudding-dish; cover with sweetened Straw- 
berries. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with sugar 
and flavor with vanilla ; pour over the straw- 
berries ; put in the oven to bake. Beat the 
whites to a sdff froth with some pulverized 
sugar ; put on top of the pudding and let 
brown. Serve cold, 

la. — Veal Croquettes a la Reine. 
Chop cold veal. Mix with some sweet- 
bread and mushrooms chopped. Season 
with salt, pepper and lemon-juice. Add a 
sprig of parsley and a little onion chopped 
fine. Mix with a beaten egg and brrad- 




Job 

crumbs ; sprinkle with nutmeg. Form into 
croquettes. Dip in beaten egg and fine 
bread-crumbs and &y in deep hot lard. 
Serve hot with a cream sauce. 

13. — German Cheese Pie. 
Line a pie-plate with a rich pie-dough. 
Mix I cup of cottage cheese with i table- 
■poonful of butter, ^ cup of sugar, 3 eggs, 
a pinch of salt and a few currants. Mix 
well. Fill the pie. Sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon and bake until light brown. 
Serve hot or cold. 

14. — Italian Veal Pattfs. 
Chop cooked veal with some onion, 
parsley, thyme and 1 clove of garlic; season ' 
with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add some 
chopped ham, lemon-juice and 2 eggs. 
Mix with bread-crumbs and melted butter. 
Fill into small pat^ shells; rub with butter 
and beaten ^g. Place a paper over the 
top and let bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve with tomato-sauce. 

15. — Hungarian Noodle Pudding. 
Boil finely cut noodles in salted water; 






drain and mix with the yolks of s eggs, ^ 
cup of raisins, sugar, cinuamon, and grated 
lemon peel to taste. Add the beaten whites. 
Line the pudding-dish with a rich pie-paste. 
Fill with the noodles and pour over some 
melted butter. Bake until brown. Serve 
hot with lemon sauce. 

16.— Polish Stewed Chicken. 

Clean a fat hen and cut into pieces at 
the joints; season and let Stew with 3 
sliced onions, 3 carrots and i potato, cut 
into dice pieces. When nearly done, add 
I cup of sauerkraut, 3 tablespoon fuls of 
sorrel and ^ cup of wine. Let cook until 
tender and serve on a platter with cooked 
rice. 

17. — Madras Curried Apples. 

Peel and core 4 sour apples and cut into 
rings; then sprinkle with curry-powder 
and let fry until tender. Add a few thinly 
cut shallots. Cover and let simmer until 
done. Serve on a platter with boiled rice 
and pour over a curry sauce. 

18.— Irish Batter Cakes. 
the yolks of 4 ^^; add a pinch 



July 

of salt, I tablcspoonful of melted butter, 
I smalt cup of milk and sifted flour enough 
to make a smooth batter. Beat well. Add 
the whites of eggs, beaten stiff" and let fry 
a golden color ; then spread with jam and 
serve hot. 

19.— Spanish Baked Eggs. 

Poach eggs as soft as possible. Butter 
a baking-dish; add a layer of bread- 
crumbs and grated cheese. Place the eggs 
on the crumbs ; sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
grated cheese and chopped parsley. Cover 
with bread-crumbs and pour over some 
cream sauce. Let bake in a hot oven until 
brown on lop. Serve with toast. 

aa — Scotch Stewed Onions. 

Boil I dozen small onions and 4 leeks in 
salted water until tender; drain. Heat a 
Ublespoonfuls of butter. Stir in i table- 
spoonful of flour until smooth but not 
brown; then add "^ pint of rich milk; 
season highly with pepper, and salt to taste. 
Add the onions ; let boil up and serve. 

31.— German Baked Cabbage. 
Take a large cabbage ; remove the outer 





July 

leaves and the inside, leaving a iiame. 
Chop all the cabbage from the inside and 
fry in hot grease with i sliced onion. Re- 
move from the fire. Mix well with bread- 
crumbs and J^ cup of chopped ham, 2 eggs, 
salt, black pepper and cayenne. Refill 
the cabbage; put on the outside leaves; 
cover the top with leaves. Put in a baking- 
pan ; sprinkle with bits of butter and pour 
in y^ cup of water. Let bake until brown. 
Serve hot. 

32. — Dutch Veal Stew. 
Season 3 pounds of veal with salt, pepper 
and lemon-juice. Put a few slices of bacon 
in a stew-pan ; when hot, add the veal. 
Cover and let brown a few minutes; then 
add a carrots and i onion sliced thio, some 
thyme and raace; pour over i cup of hot 
water. Cover and let cook slowly until 
tender. Thicken with flour mixed with % 
cup of milk. Add chopped parsley j season 
to taste and serve with baked potatoes, 

33._French Baked Apple Dumplings. 
Peel and core apples ; sprinkle well with 
Then mix some cold boiled rice 




My 

with I egg, a pinch of salt, sugar and 
cinnamon, flour enough to make a dough. 
Cover the apples with the dough; put in 
a. weU-buttered baJcing-dish with 2 lable- 
spoonfuls of butter and bake to a delicate 
brown. Serve with whipped cream. 

34. — Bavarian Pried Brains. 
Clean and boil the brains in salted water; 
add 1 onion sLced ; let cook ten minutes. 
Remove the brains and mash up well with i 
tablespoonful of butter, some bread-crumbs 
and parsley chopped, salt and pepper to 
taste ; add 2 eggs. Mix together and fry in 
deep hot lard by the tablespoonful until 
brown. Serve with tomato-sauce. 

25. — Polish Bread Pudding. 
Soak I pint of bread in a quart of milk ; 
add the yolks of 4 eggs, i cup of sugar, 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls of melted butter, yi cup of rai- 
sins, yi cup of currants, the juice of J^ 
lemon. Mix well and bake until brown; 
then beat the whites to a stiff &oth with 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls of pulverized sugar. Spread the 
pudding with jelly and cover with the beaten 
whites; set in the oven to brown. 





July 

a6. — Vienna Cherry Cake. 
Make a rich biscuit dough ; roll out ; then 
put on a weU-buUered baking-tin. Stone 
black cherries. Sprinkle the dough with 
flour and cover with the cherries. Sprinkle 
with sugar and let bake until done. Then 
cover with a sweetened egg custard and bake 
until brown. Serve cold. 

37. — Belgian Poached Eggs. 

Cut thin round slices of bread and toast 
them. Spread with chopped anchovies and 
chopped ham. Cover the top with whipped 
whites of eggs and place a raw yoke on each 
slice of bread. Set in the oven to bake 
long enough to heat the egg, and serve at 
once. 

a8. — Bavarian Apple Ke. 

Line adeep pie-dish with rich pie-paste. Let 
bake and fill with chopped apples, raisins and 
chopped nuts, sugar and a pinch of cinnamon 
and nutm^. Then cover with cake-crumbs 
and let bake until done. Beat 3 whites of 
eggs with pulverized sugar ; flavor with lemon 
and spread over the pudding. Set in the 
oven a few minutes to brown on top. 



My 

ag. — Russian Fried Sweetbreads. 
Cleao and season the sweetbreads with salt 
and pepper and sprinkle with lemon-juice 
and chopped parsley. Roll in fine bread- 
crumbs and fry in hot lard. Fry some eggs 
and put on a platter with the sweetbreads and 
serve with tomato-sauce. 

3a — Polish Apple Dumpling, 
Peel and core the apples and fill the space 
with currants. Sprinkle with sugar, cinna- 
mon and grated lemon peel, and cover each 
apple with a rich pie-paste. lay on a well- 
buttered pie-dish aad let bake until done. 
Serve with wine sauce. 



31. — Swiss Potato Dumpling. 
Boil 6 potatoes, then grate them. Mix 
with 3 tablespoonfub oT flour and 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and 3 eggs. Make into 
a soft dough ; roll out and then spread with 
fried bread-crumbs. Make into round dump- 
lings and let boil twenty minutes. Serve hot 
with melted butter poured over. 





AUGUST. 



I. — Gennan Pot Roast. 
Takea 5-pound beef roast. Rubwith salt 
and black pepper and paprJca; pour over 
some boiling vinegar ; add 2 bay-leaves, a 
few peppercorns and cloves. Let stand over 
night. Heat 3 tablespoonfuls of dripping in 
a saucepan ; lay in the meat with 2 sliced 
onions. Let stew slowly with one cup of 
water and ^ cup of the spiced vinegar until 
tender. Thicken the sauce with flour and 
serve hot with potato pancakes. 



a. — Scotch Soup. 
Cut a sheet's liver into pieces and stew 
with the sheep's head in 4 quarts of water. 
Add sliced onions, sliced leeks, carrots, tur- 
nips, parsley and thyme, salt, pepper and a 
few cloves. Let all cook until tender ; then 
Let stand until cool. Skim off the 




Aagasi 

hx; heat and mix with flour until brown; 
let boil. Add a gla^ of white wine. Cook 
all together and serve hot. 

3. — Spanish Fried Potatoes. 
Feel some new potatoes and cook until 
tender. Mix some fine bread-crumbs with 
grated Parmesan cheese and chopped parsley. 
Beat 2 eggs with salt and pepper ; dip each 
potato iu beaten egg and roll in the bread- 
crumbs. Fry in deep hot lard until brown. 
Serve hot. 

4. — French Frozen Hilk Punch. 
Sweeten i quart of milk with 2 cupfub of 
sugar ; let come to a boil. Remove from 
the fire and grate in y4 nutmeg. When cool, 
freeze until half frozen ; then stir in 3 cupfuls 
of whipped cream and freeze again. Add 5^ 
cup of rum and i cupful of French brandy. 
I^ct freeze until hard and serve. 

5. — Bavarian Fruit Compote. 
Cook a cups of water with 1 cup of wine. 
Add I cup of sugar and a pinch of cinnamon 
and some strawberries, cherries and black- 
berries. Let simmer in the juice until fruit 





August 

is done. Put in a glass dish and pout over 
the syrup. Serve cold. 

6. — Vienna Rice Custard. 
BoU }i cup of rice in i quart of milk ; add 
salt to taste; boil until very soft. Beat the 
yolks of 3 eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and stir in the rice. Flavor with rose-water 
and put in a well-buttered pudding-dish. 
Beat the whites with pulverized sugar to a 
stiff froth; spread on the custard and let 
bake in the oven until done. Serve cold. 

7. — French Fried Cucumbers. 
Feel the cucumbers and cut into inch slices. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dip in 
beaten eggs and fine bread-crumbs. Season 
with salt and pepper and fry in hot laid until 
brown. Serve with tomato-sauce and veal 
chops. 

8. — German Cherry Soup. 
Boil I Quart of cherries until soft ; sweeten 
some grated lemon peel, some 
ittle of red wine and a botUes 
'e ice-cold with e 



Aagust 

9. — Swiss Pancakes. 
Peel and grate 4 raw potatoes ; mix with 
I ounce of butter, i ounce of bread-crumbs, 
^ pint of milk, i large tablespoonful of Swiss 
cheese, the yolks of three eggs and the whites 
beaten stiff. Season with salt and pepper 
and mix with i tablespoonful of fiour to a 
smooth batter ; then hy in hot lard until 
brown. Serve hot. 

10. — English Tarts. 
Make a rich puff paste ; roll out thin and 
cut into squares ; then fill with fruit jam ; 
turn over and pinch in the edges. Drop in 
a kettle of deep hot lard and fry until a deli- 
cate brown. Sprinkle with pulverized sugar 
and serve hot. 

II. — Norwegian Rice. 
Cook rice until tender ; then reheat in a 
well-seasoned chicken stock. Put on a plat- 
ter; sprinkle with chopped chicken liver, 
scrambled eggs and grated cheese and serve 
at once. 

13. — Spanish Broilet 
Take a fresh kidney; cle 



August 

thin slices ; run a skewer through ttiem to 
hold them together. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and brush with butter; put on a 
broiler and cook for five minutes. Then 
place on a platter; pour over some lemon - 
juice and hot butter ; sprinkle with parsley 
ftnd serve at once. 

13. — Egyptian StufTed Peppers. 
Cut off the tops and remove the seeds from 
large sweet peppers. Stuff with chopped raw 
beef highly seasoned, and mix with chopped 
onion, parsley, tomato, a beaten egg and 2 
tablespoon fuls of chutney. Put the stuffed 
peppers in a baking-pan with a little hot 
water; sprinkle with bits of butter and let 
bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve. Gar- 
I niah with cucumber salad. 

14, — English Tea Cakes. 
Beat ^ pound of butter with ^ pound of 
sugar to a cream. Add t egg and i tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon and mace. Mix 
with 6 ounces of sifted flour, a pinch of salt 
and milk enough to make a stiff dough ; then 
roll out very thin. Cut into round cakes and 
bake in a quick oven until done. 




August 

15. — Bavarian Cheese Cake. 
Make a rich biscuit dough ; roll out and 
place on a well-buttered pie-dish. Then mix 
^ pound of cottage cheese with a pinch of 
salt, ^ cup of melted butter, J^ cup of 
sugar, ^ lemon grated, 2 yolks of eggs and 
3^ cup of currants ; add the whites beaten 
stiff. Fill the pie with the cheese. Serve 
hot or cold with coffee. 

16.— Spanish Chicken. 
Cut a spring chicken into pieces at the 
joints ; season with salt and pepper and fry 
until brown. Remove the chicken; add i 
onion, 2 cloves of garlic chopped and i cup 
of tomatO'Sauce. Cover and let simmer ; 
then add the chicken with i glass of sherry ' 
wine. Cook ten minutes. Serve hot with 
boiled rice. 

17.— Polish Shrimp Salad. 
Drain i cup of shrimps and i can of sar- 
dines; cut into small pieces. Add 3 hard- 
boiled eggs, I small onion, a few capers and 
gherkins chopped fine and chopped parsley. 
Mix with }( cup of vinegar. Line the salad 




Aagust 



bowl with the crisp lettuce leaves. Add the 
salad and poui over a mayonnaise dressing 
and serve. 

i8. — Dutch Apple Pudding. 
Peel and t:hop apples ; mix with % cup of 
uuts, raisins, the juice and rind of J4 lemon 
and I toblespoonful of brandy. Then add 
the ytriks of 4 eggs and the whites beaten to 
a stiff froth. Let bake in a moderate oven 
until done. Serve cold. 

19. — Bavarian Potatoes. 
Peel and cook some new potatoes with i 
sliced onion, salt and pepper, until tender. 
Then brown i tablcspoonful of flour in 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of butler ; add J^ cup of water ; let 
boil well with some chopped parsley, salt and 
pepper; then add the potatoes and let simmer 
five minutes. Serve hot. 

aa — Spanish Steak Roll. 

Cut thin slices from the round steak ; then 

chop I onion, 3 tomatoes, some celery, 

parsley and 2 hard-boiled eggs and season 




August 

with salt and pepper. Mix with butter and 
fine bread-crumbs ; then spread the mixture 
on the steak, and roll up. Sprinkle with 
flour; lay closely in a pan of hot dripping ; 
cover and let simmer until tender. Serve 
hot, garnished with olives and parsley. 

ai. — Oriental Cabbage. 
Chop a small head of cabbage, then fry i 
onion and z sour apples sliced thin. Add 
the chopped cabbage, ^ cup of stock and 
the juice of ^ lemon ; sprinkle with salt and 
cayenne pepper ; add yi leaspoonful of curry- 
powder. Cover and let all simmer until 
tender. Serve very hot on a border of boiled 



22.— Dutch Salad. 
Soak 3 Dutch herrings in milk; then cut 
off the heads and tails and cut herrings into 
one-half inch pieces. Add 2 apples cut line, 
3 hard-boiled eggs sliced thin, some cooked 
beets cut fine, some celery and green onions 
cut into very small pieces. Season and mix 
together. Pour over some vinaigrette sauce, 
and sprinkle with chopped gherkins. 




August 

43^— Greek Cucumbers. 
Feel large cucumbers ; cat off the ends ; 
scoop out the seeds; sprinkle with salt. 
Then mix boiled rice with some chopped 
green onioos and stuff the cucumbers. Lay 
the cucumbers in a stew-pan ; pour over i 
cup of stock and the juice of a lemon ; add 
I tablespoonful of butter, and let cook until 
tender. Serve hot, and pour over a well- 
seasoned white sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

24. — Russian Beef Roll. 
Chop a pounds of beef with j^ pound 
of suet ; add 4 small onions, a cloves of 
garlic and 3 sprigs of parsley chopped fine. 
Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Mix 
with some bread-crumbs and a beaten egg. 
Shape into a roll and lay in a baking-dish ; 
moisten with broth and let bake until done. 
Serve on a platter with a border of mashed 
potatoes and garnish with iried parsley. 

35.— Jewish Veal Stew. 

Cook 3 pounds of veal ; when nearly done, 

add }i cup of vinegar, }4 cup of raisins, a, 



August 

pinch of cloves and cinnamon and a table- 
spoonful of horseradish. Thicken the 
sauce with buttered bread-crumbs; season 
with salt and pepper to taste. Serve with 
boiled rice. 



26. — French Pop-overs. 
Beat the yolks of 3 eggs until very light ; 
add I pint of milk. Sift i pint of flour with 
a teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; add ^ 
teaspoonful of salt and the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor with 
rose-water. Mix well together and pour into 
hot well-buttered cake-tins. Bake in a quick 
oven until a light brown. Serve hot with 
French coffee. 



vj, — German Egg Toast. 
Cut slices of stale bread; beat 3 eggs 
with a pinch of salt and 3^ cup of milk. 
Dip the slices of bread in the beaten eggs 
and fry until brown on both sides. Cover 
with pulverized sugar ; sprinkle with cinna- 
mon and some finely chopped nuts. Serve 
hot. 




August 

38.— Irish Potato Pu%. 
Peel and boil potatoes well seasoned ; then 
mash thoroughly with a lump of butter. 
Add some milk and 2 ^gs ; beat well until 
very light. Then fry in deep hot lard by 
the Ublespoonful until a light brown. Serve 
hot with broiled steak. 

ag. — Belgian Eggs. 
Take 4 eggs, 2 cups of milk, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, i teaspoonful of flour. Beat 
whites separate; add flour to the yolks and 
sugar ; beat until stiff. Beat the whites and 
■cald in milk ; strain from the milk, and act 
aside. Take the yolk, and stir gently iu the 
milk until thick. Remove from the Are. 
Place ia a dish to cool. Flavor with vanilla 
and then put the whites on top and serve. 

3a— Irish Cucumber Salad. 
Peel the cucumbers and slice thin ; add i 
onion sliced. Sprinkle well with salt; let 
stand half an hour on ice ; press out all the 
water ; sprinkle with white pepper and 
chopped parsley. Add vinegar mixed with 
sugar, to taste, and salad oil. Serve at once. 




August 

3tt — German Iced Beer Soup. 
Take one quart of fresh beer. Sweeten to 
taste and fiavor with a pinch of cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Slice a lemon very thin and 
put in the beer. Let get very cold on ice 
and serve with sponge-cake. 





^^ 



SEPTEMBER. 



I, — Dutch Biscuits. 
Make a soft biscuit dough ; then put on a 
well-floured baking-board and roll out one- half 
inch thick. Sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon 
and grated lemon pee! and pour over some 
melted butter. Then roll up the dough and 
cut into inch thick slices j lay in a well-but- 
tered baking-pan and let bake in a hot oven 
until done. 

a. — Hindoo Oyster Fritters. 
Boil large oysters in their liquor ; season 
with salt, pepper and curry-powder. Let 
come to a boil ; then drain, and spread the 
oysters with highly seasoned minced chicken. 
Dip them in a seasoned egg batter and fry in 
deep hot lard to a golden brown. Serve 
hot, garnished with fried parsley and lemon 
slices. 



Septemher 

3.— Jewish Chrimsel. 
Soak ^ loaf of bread in milk ; add t cup 
of sugar, }i cup of raisins, )4 cup of 
pounded nuts, the grated peel of a lemon 
and a pinch of cinnamon. Then mix with 
the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites beaten 
stiff and fry by the tablespoonful in hot fat 
ontil brown. Serve hot with wine sauce. 

4. — Spanish Relish. 
Stone some large olives and fill the space 
with anchovy paste, mixed with well-seasoned 
tomato-sauce. Then fry thin slices of bread 
and spread with some of the paste. Place a 
filled olive in the centre; sprinkle with 
chopped hard-boiled eggs and garnish with 
fillets of anchovies and sprigs of parsley. 

5. — French Orange Compote. 
Make a syrup of sugar and water ; add a 
little lemon- juice. Peel and remove seeds 
of oranges ; cut into quarters and lay them 
in the boiling syrup ; let cook ten minutes. 
Remove the oranges to a glass dish ; pour 
over the syrup and garnish with candied 
cherries. 




September 

6. — Spanish Baked Chicken. 
Cleaa and season a chicken vith salt 
and pepper and let boil until tender. Put 
the chicken in a baking-dish ; pour ovn 
some tomato-sauce highly seasoned ; sprinkle 
with well-buttered bread-crumbs and let 
bake until brown. Place on a large platter 
with a border of boiled rice and pour over 
the sauce. Serve hot. 

7.— Swiss Beet Salad. 
Boil red beets until tender; skin and 
cut into thin slices. Sprinkle with salt, 
whole pepper, whole cloves, 2 bay-leaves 
and mix with wine vinegar. Let stand. 
Serve the next day. 

8. — Bombay Chicken Croquettes. 
Boil a fat hen well seasoned with salt, 
pepper, i sliced onion, 2 green peppers and 
3 cloves of garlic. Remove the chicken 
and chop fine and mix with chopped paisley, 
the grated rind of J^ lemon, j4 tcaspoonful 
of paprica and a pinch of nutmeg. Add a 
little chopped tarragon and chervil and 3 
beaten eggs. Mix with the sauce and form 

100 




September 

iDto croquettes. Then dip into beaten eggs 
and fine bread-crumbs, and fry in deep hot 
lard a golden blown. Serve hot. Garnish 
with fried parsley and serve tomato-sauce 
in a separate dish, flavored with chopped 
mango chutney. 

9- — Swiss Veal Pie. 
Cut cooked veal into small pieces ; season 
and moisten with a rich beef gravy. Pour 
into a deep pie-dish. Then malce a cover 
with mashed potatoes moistened with cream ; 
sprinkle with bits of butter and let bake 
until brown. Serve hot. 

10. — Spanish Rice. 
Fry I lai^e chopped onion with a cups 
of tomatoes ; add i cup of stock, salt and 
pepper to taste. Cover and let simmer ten 
minutes ; then add 2 cups of boiled rice. 
Mix well together with i tablespoonful of 
butter. Let get very hot and serve. 

II. — Polish Chicken Soup. 

Cook a large fat chicken in 3 quarts of 

water ; add x onion, 2 carrots and 2 sMlka 






September 

of celery cut into small pieces and i cup of 
pearl barky. Let all cook until tender. 
Remove the chicken ; season the soup to 
taste with salt and pepper; add some 
chopped paisley and serve hot with the 
chicken. 

13. — Norwegian Soup. 
Boil a large fish in i quarts of water; 
season with salt and paprica. Add i sliced 
onion, a leeks cut fine, a sprigs of parsley 
and I bay-leaf. Let cook well ; then remove 
the fish. Add t tablespoon ful of butter and 
I quart of oysteis. Let boil ten minutes. 
Add I cup of hot cream ; season to taste and 
serve very hot. 

13.— Greek Cakes. 
Mix J4 pound of butter and i cup of 
sugar to a cream ; add 4 well-beaten eggs 
and the grated rind and juice of ^ lemon. 
TTien stir in }4 pound of flour and work 
into a smooth dough. Lay on a well- 
floured baking-board and roll out thin. 
Cut into fancy shapes and bake in a mod- 
erate oven until done. Cover with a white 
icing, flavored with vanilla. 




September 

14. — Russian Sandwich. 
Spread thin slices of rye bread with butter 
aDd caviare; some slices of white bread 
with butter and thin slices of ham; some 
slices of pumpernickel bread with butter and 
a layer of cottage cheese ; and some slices 
of brown bread with butter and cold cooked 
chicken sliced thin. Put all into a press 
under a heavy weight for one hour; then 
cut into perpendicular slices and serve. 

15. — Spanish Desaert. 
Dissolve J^ box of gelatin. Then cook 
I pint of milk; add 6 tablespoon fuls of 
sugar and stir in the yolks of 3 eggs. Mix 
all together with the gelatin and the whites 
of ^gs beaten to a stiff froth ; add i tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Pour into a mold and 
place on ice. Serve with whipped cream. 

16. — German Bread Tarte. 
Take i cup of rye bread-crumbs and mix 
with the beaten yolks of 4 eggs, }i cup of 
sugar, some pounded almonds, a pinch of 
cinnamon, nutmeg and a piece of chocolate 
grated. Add i teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 





September 

I ublespoonful of brandy and i of wine. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth; add to the 
mixture. Put in a well-buttered pudding- 
dish and bake until brown. Serve with wine 



17. — Russian Stewed Pish. 
Cut a white fish into pieces and salt 
well ; let stand. Then cut i onion and i 
clove of garlic in thin slices ; fry in i 
tablespoonful of butter. Stir in i table- 
spoonful of flour until brown. Then fill 
the pan with water and let boil. Add i 
>nful of celery seed, i bay-leaf, a 
few cloves, a pinch of thyme and mace, 
^ teaspoonful of paprica and salt to taste. 
Let boil. Add the fish to the sauce; 
sprinkle with black peppei and ginger and 
let cook until done. Remove the fish to 
a platter. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with 
a little water and stir in the sauce with 
some chopped parsley. Let get very hot 
and pour over the fish. Garnish with lemon 
slices and sprigs of parsley. 

18. — German Liver Dumplings. 
Chop }i pound of liver; add 1 chopped 




September 

onion, some parsley, salt, pepper and a little 
nutmeg. Mix with 3 beaten eggs and i 
tablespoonful of butter. Add enough bread- 
crumbs to form into small balls and boil in 
soup-stoclc and serve with the soup. 

19. — Jewish Sour Fish. 
Season a trout and let cook with i sliced 
onion, i sliced lemon, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, a few cloves and a pinch of pepper. 
Add cinnamon, ^ cup of raisins and i table- 
spoonful of butter. When done, remove to 
a platter. Add some brown sugar, lemon- 
juice and chopped parsley to the sauce ; let 
boil and pour over the fish. Serve cold. 
Gambh with parsley. 

20. — Compote dc Bannaaes. 
Peel I dozen bananas and cut them in 
halves. Then cook J^ cup of water with J^ 
pound of sugar ; let boil ten minutes ; then 
. add the juice of a lemon ; let cook. Add the 
sliced bananas to the hot syrup and stew 
slowly until done. Remove the bananas to 
a dish and pour over the syrup. Serve very 
cold for dessert. 



September 

ai. — English Peach Pie. 
Make a rich pie-crust and let bake until 
done. Peel and chop some peaches and mix 
with sugar to taste. Fill the pie with the 
peaches; let bake. Whip i cupof rich cream 
with pulverized sugar and flavor with vanilla. 
Spread the deam high over the pie ; let get 
cold and serve. 

33. — Bean Polenta (Italian). 
Cook 2 cups of white dried beans with salt 
and pepper until very soft ; press through a 
colander. Fry i onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter until brown j mix with the beans. Add 
I tablespoonful of vinegai, i teaspoonful of 
made mustard, some lemon -juice and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of molasses. Let all get very hot 
and serve with pork roasL 

23. — French Almond Pudding, 
Take ^ pound of almonds and pound in 
a mtntar. Mix with 6 yolks of eggs and a 
cup of sugar, i tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 
I tablespoonful of brandy, 3 slices of stale 
cake-crumbs and the whites of the ^gs beaten 
stiff. Put in a well-buttered pudding-dish 
and bake in a slow oven until done. 




September 

24.— Italian Cutlets. 
Take tender veal cutlets; season highly 
with pepper and salt. Dip in beaten egg and 
fine la^d-crumbs and fry in boiling laid un- 
til a light brown. Have ready some boiled 
macaroni well seasoned. Put on a platter 
with the cutlets and pour over all a highly 
seasoned tomato-sauce. 

35. — Jewish Gefuellte F^h. 
Take a pounds of trout and a pounds of 
red fish ; cut in two-inch slices. Remove the 
skin from one side of the slices. Chop 3 
onions ; add salt, pepper and mix with fine 
cracker-crumbs and i egg to a paste. Lay 
the paste on the fish and put back the skin. 
Boil the fish with salt, pepper and sliced 
onion, i carrot and 2 sprigs of parsley cut 
fine, a pinch of doves and allspice. Let 
boil two hours. Add a tablcspoonful of rich 
cream. Serve cold. 

36.— Swedish Stewed Veal. 

Season 3 pounds of veal. Lay some sliced 

bacon in a saucepan ; let get hot ; add the 

veal. Cover and let brown with 1 sliced 





September 

onioas, a carrots and an herb bouquet, t bay- 
leaf and I tablespoonful of butter. Add i 
pint of water and let simmer until tender. 
Add chopped mushrooms and a small glass 
of wine. Let all get hot and serve. 

27. — French Apple Pie. 
line a deep pie-dish vrith a rich pie-ciust. 
Cb<^ 4 apples very fine and mix with sugar, 
cinnamon, lemon-juice and }4 cup of cur- 
rants. Then mix with the yolks of a eggs 
well beaten. Fill the pie and bake until 
done. Beat the whites with pulverized sugar 
and spread on the pie. Let get light brown 
on top, 

aS.— Vietma Riled Apples. 
Remove the core and scrape out the inside 
of the apples. Mix the scraped apple with 
chopped raisins, nuts, cinnamon, sugar and 
grated lemon peel. Fill the apples ; place in 
a stew-pan. Mix J^ cup of wine with J^ cup 
of water. Sweeten with 3 tablespoon fuls of 
sugar and pour over the apples. Let cook 
slowly until the apples are tender. Remove 
from the fire ; put on a glass dish. Pour over 
the sauce and serve cold. 




September 

ag. — Scotch Stewed Tripe. 
Clean and boil tripe until tender ; then fry 
t chopped carrot and i onion until light 
brown. Stir in i tablespoonful offlour; add 
I cup of stock, 1 bay-leaf, some thyme and 
parsley J let boiL Season with salt, pepper 
and lemon-juice. Cut the tripe into narrow 
strips ; add to the sauce. Let siimner one- 
half hour and serve. 

30,— Polish Stewed Calves' Feet 
Boil the calves' feet in salted water until 
tender; then take out the bones. Fry i 
chopped onion in butter; stir in i tablespoon- 
ful of flour; add i cup of stock. Let boil 
with I bay-leaf, some parsley chopped fine 
and ^ cup of vinegar, salt and pepper to 
taste. Then add the feet and let simmer ten 
minutes. Stir in the yolks of an egg and 
serve hot 





OCTOBER, 



I.— Oriental Pudding. 
Heat I large cup of milk and stir in 3 
taUespoonfiils of butter ; let boil up. Then 
stir ia i small cup of flour sifted with i tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder and a pinch of 
salCi stir until a smooth batter. Then re- 
move from the fire and stir in 4 well-beaten 
eggs, y^ cup of preserved ginger minced fine 
and 2 tablespoon fuls of the syrup ; mix thor- 
oughly. Put into a well-buttered mold and 
let steam two hours. Serve hot with wine 
sauce. 

3.— Swedish Batter Cakes. 
Sift 1 pint of flour. Add a salt-spoonful of 
salt, 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a. little 
milk, the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth and enough milk to 
make a thin batter. Then bake on a hot 
d griddle until done. Serve hot. 




October 

3. — Chinese Chop Suey. 
Cut 3 pounds of fresh pork into tbin strips 
and let fry ten minutes. Add i large onion 
sliced thin and let fry ; then add 1 cup of 
sliced mushrooms, 3 stalks of celery cut 
fine, }i cup of Chinese sauce and a pinch of 
pepper ; moisten with J^ cup of hot water. 
Cover and let simmer until tender. Thicken 
the sauce with flour moistened with a little 
milk and let boil. Put some well-seasoned 
cooked rice on a platter, pour over the chop 
suey and serve very hot. 

4. — Russian Nattonal Soup. 
Chop and fry all kinds of vegetables until 
tender. Make a highly-seasoued beef broth ; 
add the fried vegetables, 3 boiled beets 
chopped fine, some chopped ham, J^ tea- 
spoonful of fennel seed, a sprigs of parsley 
chopped. Let boil well j then add i cup of 
hot cream and serve at once, 

5. — English Buns. 

Set a sponge over night with i cake of 

compressed yeast dissolved in a cup of warm 

water, 3 cups of milk and flour enough to 





October 

nuke a thick batter. Then add yi cup of 
melted butter, i cup of sugar, a. salt-spocnifui 
of salt, % teaspoonful of soda, % nutm^ 
grated and flour enough to make a stiff 
dough. Let raise five hours ; then roll out 
half an inch thick and cut into round cakes. 
Lay in a well-buttered baking-pan. Let 
stand half an hour ; then bake until a light 
brown. Brush the top with white of ^g 
beaten with pulv^zed sugar. 

6.— Japanese Fish. 
Clean and season a large white fish with salt 
and paprica and let boil with 4 sliced shallots 
and I clove of garlic mashed fine. When 
nearly done, add i tablespoonful of butter, 3 
sprigs of parsley chopped line, i tablespoonful 
of soy, I tablespoonful each of tarragon and 
Worcestershire sauce. Let cook until done. 
Place OD a plattn. Garnish with fried 
parsley and serve with boiled rice. 

•J. — Swiss Creamed Potatoes. 

Boil potatoes until tender and slice them 

thin. Heat two ounces of butter ; add a 

dessert-spoonful of flour. Then sdr in some 




October 

rich milk until it thickens ; add the potatoes, 
salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Let boil 
up; add a litde hot cream and serve -at 
once. 

8.— Belgian Chicken. 
Cut a cooked chicken into pieces; add 
some slices of cold veal. Heat i cup of 
stock; add ^ teaspoooful of mustard, ^ 
teaspoonful of paprica, a pinch of white 
pepper and salt to taste. Add the chicken 
and I glass of sherry wine. Let all cook 
ten minutes. Add 3 tablespoon fuls of cur- 
rant jelly. Serve hot with toasted croutons. 

9. — Swiss Biscuits. 
Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with ^ pound of 
butter ; add a pinch of salt and pepper, a 
teaspoonfiil of mustard and 5 ounces of 
grated Swiss cheese. Mix well with ^ 
pound of Aour or enough to make a stiff 
dough ; roll out and cut into round biscuits. 
Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, 
and serve. 

10. — French Fritters. 
Boil I quart of water ; add i teaspoonful 





October 

of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter ; then stir 
in enough sifted flour until thick and 
smooth. When cold, stir in 5 beaten ^gs, 
sugar and a little nutmeg to taste. Fry in 
deep hot lard to a golden brown. Serve 
with wine sauce. 

II. — German WaCBes. 

Mix ^ pound of butter with 6 tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Add the yolks of 5 eggs, yi 
cup of milk, ^ pound of sifted flour with a 
teaspoonfub of baking-powder, a pinch of 
salt and the grated peel of a lemon. Mix 
well ; add the whites beaten stiff and bake 
in a wcU-greased waffle iron. SptinUe with 
pulverized sugar and serve hot. 

la.— Dutch Rice Fritters. 
Take i cup of boiled rice and mix with 3 
beaten eggs. Then sift J4 cup of flour with 
I tcaspoonful of baking-powder and a 
pinch of salt. Add some sugar to taste. 
Beat to a light thick batter and fry a spoon- 
ful at a time in boiling lard. Sprinkle with 
pulverized sugar and serve hot with cooked 
fruit. 



October 

13.— French Lettuce Salad. 

Take the inner lettuce leaves; sprinkle 
vith salt and pepper. Mix the yolks of 2 
hard-boiled eggs with i tablespoonful of olive- 
oil and stir all together with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of white wine vinegar. Serve at once with 
meats. 

14. — Austrian Baked Eggs. 
Poach fresh eggs one at a time ; then put 
in a well-buttered baking-dish ; sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, bits of butter and grated cheese. 
Pour over the top J^ cup of cream sauce and 
cover with fine bread-crumbs. Set in the oven 
to brown and serve hot with tomato-sauce. 

15.— Swedish Stewed Chicken. 
Cut a spring chicken in pieces at the 
joints ; season with salt and pepper and saut* 
in hot butter. Add a cups of cream sauce, 
J4 cup of boiled rice, some chopped parsley 
and bits of butter. Let stew slowly until the 
chicken is very tender. Serve hot. 

16.— Polish Filled Pish. 
Clean the fish ; cut open along the back- 



October 

bone. Remove all the lish from the skin and 
bone from head to tail and chop line. Fry i 
onion in butter; add some soaked bread. 
Take from the fire and mix with the chopped 
fish. Add 2 eggs and chopped parsley; 
season highly with salt and pepper, a pinch 
of cloves and nutmeg. Fill the skin of the 
fish with the mixture and boil with sliced 
onions, a few lemon slices, some parsley and 
a. tabiespoonful of butter, salt and pepper, 
until done. Serve hot or cold. 

17.— Eels a la Poulette. 
Clean and skin the eels ; let boil with salt, 
pepper and vinegar. Then cut into three-inch 
pieces. Heat 3 tablespoon fuls of butter; add 
I onion chopped ; stir in i tabiespoonful of 
flour until brown ; add 1 cup of water, salt, 
pepper, i bay-leaf, some parsley and thyme. 
Let boil well ; add the eels and i glass of 
wine. Boil ten minutes longer ; thicken the 
sauce with the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten 
and seasoned with lemon-juice. Serve with 
fried croutons. 

18. — Italian Baked Fish. 
Clean and season a blue fish widt taik. 




October 

pepper and cloves. Lay the fish in a bak- 
ing-pan with i onion chopped fine and a 
tablespoonfuls of chopped carrot and parsley. 
Pour over i glass of wine; sprinkle with 
flour. Put flakes of butter over the flsh and 
let bake until brown. Serve with macaroni. 

19. — Dutch StuBed Goose. 
Clean and season a goose and stuff with 
oysters well seasoned with salt, pepper, 
parsley, thyme and bits of butter rolled in 
fine bread-crumbs. Put in a baking-dish. 
Pour over the oyster liquor and a little hot 
water ; let bake until done. Baste as often 
as necessary. Serve with red currant jelly. 



ao. — Swiss Roast Turkey. 
Clean and season the turkey with salt and 
pepper. Then fill with z cups of bread- 
crumbs mixed with a lump of butter, some 
chopped onion and thyme, salt and p>epper to 
taste, % cup of seeded raisins and ^ cup of 
nuls. Mix all well with a beaten ^gs. Put 
turkey in dripping-pan and let bake a rich 
brown. Baste often with the dripping until 
tender. Save with dressing. 



^ 





October 

31. — Preach Turkey Soup. 
Cut off all the meat from left-over turkey 
bones. Put the booes in cold water aad boil 
with I small onion, i carrot, a pieces of 
celery and a sprigs of parsley, all cut fine. 
Add I cup of tomato-sauce. Let all coolc 
well, seasoned with salt and pepper. Re- 
move the bones ; add boiled rice and the 
turkey meat cut into dice pieces. Let boil and 
serve hot with fried croutons. 

23. — Swedish Baked Fish. 
Clean and season a trout with salt, black 
pepper and cayenne. Lay in a baking-pan ; 
dredge with flour; sprinkle with parsley and 
bits of butter ; add a little water and vinegar. 
Let bake in a hot oven. Baste often with 
butter until done. Garnish with parsley and 
serve hot with cream sauce. 

33.— Jewish Stewed Sweetbreads. 
Clean and parboil the sweetbreads ; then 
fry I small sliced onion in hot fat until light 
brown. Stir in i tablespoonful of flour ; add 
J^ cup of water and j4 cup of wine vinegar; 
let boil up. Add i bay-leaf, a few cloves. 




OdoBer 

^ cup of seeded raisins, a few thin slices of 
lemon and chopped parsley. Season with 
salt and paprica to taste ; add i tablespoon- 
ful of brown sugar. Let boil ; add the sweet- 
bieads and simmer until done. Seive cold. 

34. — German Stuffed Turkey. 
Singe and clean a fat turkey. Season well 
with salt and pepper. Chop the giblets ; add 
some chopped veal and pork, i onion, a 
cloves of garlic and parsley chopped, salt and 
pepper. Mix with 2 eggs and stuiT the 
turkey. Put in the dripping-pan with some 
hot water. Dredge with flour ; let bake un- 
til done. Baste often with the sauce. Serve 
the turkey with the dressing. Garnish with 
boiled beets sliced thin. 

35. — Neapolitan Salad. 
Cut cold chicken or turkey in small dice 
pieces; add some cold potatoes, beets and 
celery, cut fine; sprinkle with chopped hard- 
boiled eggs, salt and pepper. Line the salad 
bowl with lettuce leaves; add the salad. 
Cover with a French mayonnaise dressing. 
Garnish with capers and beets. 





October 

36. — Bavarian Stuffed Chicken. 
Clean and season a fat hen. Chop the 
giblets ; add some truffles, a chopped onion, 
parsley, bread-crumbs, a beaten egg, salt, 
black pepper and paprica to taste. I'hen fill 
the chicken ; heat some dripping in a large 
saucepan; lay in the chicken, cover, and 
cook slowly with 1 cup of hot water until 
tender. 

ij. — Hungarian Baked Herring. 
Bone the herring and cut into small pieces. 
SUce some cooked potatoes; then butter a 
baking-dish ; sprinkle with fiour. Put a layer 
of potatoes, some chopped onion and herring 
and bits of butter until dish is full ; sprinkle 
with pepper. Make the top layer of potatoes 
and bits of butter. Moisten with 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sour cream. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven until brown. Serve hot. 

38. — French Stewed Quail. 

Stuff the quail. Put i tablespoonful of 

■t stew-pan ; add some thin 

Let get very hot. Lay in 

Lie with salt and pepper; add 



OdoBer 

I small onion and i carrot chopped 'fine. 
Cover and let brown a few minutes, then add 
I cup of hot water. Let stew slowly until 
tender. Thicken the sauce with flour mixed 
with mitk; &dd some chopped parsley; let 
boil up and serve hot, 

39. — India Beef Curry. 
Cut 3 pounds of beefeteak ioto inch 
pieces. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
Qour and fry until brown. Add i onion 
chopped fine and i tablespoonfnl of vinegar. 
Cover and let simmer with i tablespoonful of 
curry-powder and ^ cup of hot water until 
meat is tender. Thicken the sauce with 
flour and butter. Serve on a platter with 
a border of cooked rice sprinkled with 
chopped parsley and garnished with fried 
apple slices. 

3a — Bread Pudding a la Caramel. 

Mix 1 pint of soft bread-crumbs with 
j4 cup of seeded raisins, 3 tablespoon fuls 
of sugar and 2 eggs. Sti 
milk and bake in a well-bi 
dish until brown. Then ti 



Odoher 

brown sugai with ^ cup of milk and 4 
tablespoonfuls of chocolate. Stir until 
smooth and spread hoc over the pudding. 

31. — Irish Flummery. 
Take i piut of oatmeal ; poui on enough 
cold water to cover; let stand over night; 
strain and boil with a pinch of salt until 
thickened. Then add i cup of cooked 
small fruit, a lump of butter and sugar to 
taste. Let get cold and serve with cieam. 




NOVEMBER. 

I. — Swiss Fried Sweetbreads. 
Blanch the sweet breiids and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper ; then cut into thin 
slices. Dip in beaten egg and roll in 
grated Swiss cheese and iiae bread-crumbs 
and fry in a little hot butter to a golden 
brown. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 

3.— Japanese Chicken. 
Cut 3 spring chickens into pieces at 
the joints ; season with salt, ginger, pepper 
and curry-powder and let fry in hot olive- 
oil until brown. Remove the chicken ; add 
^ cup of chopped leeks, }4 pint of Japanese 
sauce, ^ cup of chrysanthemum flowers, 
3 chopped red peppers, some bamboo 
sprouts shaved thin and }4 cup of water. 
Cover and let cook ten minutes. Add the 
chicken to the sauce with i cup of cocoanut 
juice. Let all simmer until the chicken 




November 

is tender. Serve on a platter with a 
border of cooked rice and garnish with 
fried paisley. 

3. — Hindu Venison. 
Cook some venison, well seasoned, until 
tender and slice thin. Peel and slice a 
apples and 1 Spanish onion ; season and 
fry until a light brown. Add i cooked 
carrot sliced thin, some savory herbs, and 
I cup of mutton broth ; cover and let cook 
fifteen minutes. Then mix J^ ounce of 
butter with J^ tablespoonful of curry-powder 
and I tablespoonful of lemon-juice ; add to 
the sauce with the sliced venison ; cover 
and let simmer ten minutes ; then add t 
tablespoonful of currant jelly. Let get very 
hot and serve, garnished with fried croutons 
and sliced lemon. 

4. — Spanish Tongue. 
Boil a beef tongue until tender ; take off 
the outer skin. Then rub with butter and 
the beaten yolk of an egg ; put in a baking- 
dish. Add J^ cup of the water In which 
the tongue was cooked, }4 glass of wine 
and ^ can of mushrooms. Sprinkle with 




November 

salt and pepper and let bake until brown. 
Serve garnished with the mushrooms. 

5.— English Pigeon Pie. 
Clean aud season some young pigeons. 
Stuff each with chopped oysters and bits of 
butter and let stew until tender with i 
onion, 2 sprigs of paisley and i bay-leaf. 
Then line a deep pie-dish with a rich paste ; 
let bake and fill with the stuffed pigeons. 
Add the sauce; cover with the paste and 
let bake until brown. Serve hot. 

6. — Hungarian Stuffed Goose Neck. 

Remove the skin from the neck of a fat 
goose and stuff with some soaked bread, 
fried with i small chopped onion in a table- 
spoonful of goose-dripping. Add chopped 
parsley, salt, paprica and ginger and mix 
with I egg. Lay in a baking-pan with a 
little hot water and bake until brown. 
Serve hot with red cabbage cooked with 
wine. 

^. — Swedish Cabbage. 

Shred a cabbage very thin; sprinkle with 

salt and cook in as little water as possible 




November 

until tender. Then add some milk and let 
boil. Add a tablespoonful of butter mixed 
with flour, some mace and white pepper to 
taste. Let boil up and serve hot. 

8. — Spanish Fried Fish. 
Season and slice red fish; roll in flour 
and fry until brown. Then heat i table- 
spoonful of butter; add I chopped onion 
and I cup of tomatoes; let fry; add i 
tablespoonful of flour and i cup of water; also 
some parsley, salt, pepper and i bay-leaf 
chopped fine. Let all cook; then add the 
slices of fried fish. Let all get very hot and 
serve with boiled rice. 

- g. — German Spiced Rabbit. 
Clean and cut the rabbit into pieces; 
sprinkle with salt, ginger, black pepper and 
paprica and pour over some vinegar. Heat 
I tablespoonful of dripping ; add the slices 
of rabbit and i sliced onion, z bay-leaves, a 
few peppercorns, a sprigs of parsley, thyme 
and a little mace. Cover with hot water 
and let stew slowly until tender. Thicken 
the sauce with butter mixed with flour. 
Let cook and serve hot with apple compote. 



November 

10. — English Layer Cake. 
Bake 3 layers of sponge-cake ; then mix 
some jelly with wine and spread between 
the layers and over the top and sides. 
Cover with a rich chocolate icing, flavored 
with vaailla. 

XI. — Dutch Rice Pudding. 
Mix I cup of rice in 2 cups of milk ; add 
I tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of 4 
eggs, the juice of ^ lemon, i cup of sugar 
and nutmeg to taste, }i cup of chopped 
raisins, ^ cup of nuts and the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in 
a well-buttered pudding-dish until done. 
Serve cold, 

la, — Polish Poached Eggs. 
Boil yi cup of vinegar with one cup of 
water and break in fresh eggs one at a time 
and poach them. Remove to a platter; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Then add 
I tablespoonful of butter and i tablespoon- 
ful of sugar to the sauce ; let boil up and 
pour over the eggs. Serve on buttered 
toast. 




November 

13.— Belgian Sweet Potato Pur^ 
BchI 4 sweet potatoes until soft. Mashtm- 
til Binooth with i tablespoonful of butter, a 
beaten eggs, i tablespoonful of brown sugar, 
X teaspoonful of cinnamon and ^ cup of 
milk. Beat well. Put in a buttered pud- 
ding-dish ; pour over some melted butter ; let 
bake until brown. Serve hot with broiled 
steak. 

14. — Spanish Codfish. 
Parboil i cup of shredded codfish j heat 3 
tablespoonfuls of butter ; add 1 chopped onion 
and 2 cups of tomatoes ; let fry. Add i 
tablespoonful of flour; stii until thickened. 
Then add i cup of water, pepper and chopped 
parsley ; let boil well ; add the codfish. Let 
simmer one-half hour. Serve on buttered 
toast. 

15. — Halibut a la Toulonaise. 
Slice the fish; season highly withsalt, pep* 
per, cloves, lemon-juice and parsley. Then 
roll in flour and fry in hot olive-oil until 
brown. Garnish with lemon slices and 
parsley. Serve with a lettuce salad with 
French dressing. 




November 

i6^ewish stewed Goose. 

Clean and cut a (at goose into pieces; 
season with salt, pepper and ginger. Put in 
a stew-pan with i sliced onion, 2 doves of 
garlic, 1 bay-leaf, thyme and a few pepper- 
corns ; add the' juice of a lemon. Cover with 
hot water and let cook until tender. Thicken 
with flour and serve hot with apple-sauce. 

17.— Polish Rice Pudding. 
Heat I quart of milk ; add i cup of boiled 
rice, 3 ounces of seeded raisins and 2 ounces 
of currants. Let cook ten minutes. Then 
add the grated peel of a lemon, ^ of a grated 
nutmeg and the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten 
with t cup of sugar. Mix thoroughly and 
pour into a well-buttered pudding-dish ; let 
bake until done. Then beat the whites to a 
stiff froth with 3 tablespoon fuls of pulverized 
sugar; flavor with vanilla. Spread on the 
pudding and let brown slightly in a hot oven. 
Serve with lemon sauce. 

18. — Vienna Dumplings. 

Mix a eggs and J^ cup of water, a pinch 

of salt and enough flour to make a stiff bat- 





November 

t&. Then drop by the ublespoonful into 
boiling salted water until they rise to the sur- 
face. Remove to a platter and fry some 
onions in hot butter. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and pour over the dumplings. 

19.— Bavarian Sauerkraut. 

Cook 1 pounds of fresh pork ; season with 
salt and pepper ; add 2 bay-leaves and a few 
cloves. When half done, add i quart of 
sauerkraut and let cook one hour. Add i 
cup of wine and i tablespoonful of brown 
sugar. Let all cook until tender. Serve 
with potato dumplings, 

30.'— Chicken Croquettes a la Rdne. 

Chop cold cooked chicken with some 
mushrooms, parsley and thyme and season 
with salt, black pepper and cayenne. Add 
a tablespoonful of butter and i well-beateo 
eggs. Then form into croquettes. Dip in 
beaten egg and fine bread-crumbs and fry in 
deep hot lard to a golden brown. Make a 
cream sauce and serve with the croquettes. 
Garnish with parsley. 



November 

3j^-Jewish Goose Greeben. 

Cut all the fat from the goose into small 
pieces and cook in a skillet with i cup of cold 
water. Let cook uncovered until the water 
has evaporated ; then &y until brown. 
Sprinkle with salt aiid serve hot. 

aa. — French Venison Pie. 
Cut venison in very small pieces and stew, 
highly seasoned, until tender. Line a. deep 
pie-dish with a rich pie-paste and bake. 
Then fill with the venison. Add a glass of 
port wine, a pinch of cloves and mace to the 
sauce and bits of butter rolled in flour. Pour 
the sauce over the venison and cover with the 
paste. Rub the top with a beaten egg and 
let bake until done. 

23.— Belgian Broiled Quail. 

Select fat quails. Rub with salt, pepper 
and butter and tie a very thin strip of bacon 
around the body of each quail. Place on a 
broiler over a slow fire ; let broil twenty min- 
utes until done. Remove the bacon. Have 
ready buttered toast. Place the birds on the 
toast, pour over some melted butter, chopped 
panley and lemon-juice. Serve hoL 




November 

34. — Vienna Roast Beef^ 
Season a rib-roast of beef with salt, pepper 
and ginger and rub with vincgaT. Put in the 
dripping-pan with i sliced onion, a doves of 
garlic, 3 carrots, 2 stalks of celery cut fine, 
I bay-leaf and a few cloves and peppercorns. 
Four over i cup of stock and dredge with 
fiour. Let bake in a quick oven ; allow fif- 
teen minutes to the pound. Serve with po- 
tato dumplbgs. 

35. — Oysters a la Toulonaise. 

Drain large oysters ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Try out a few slices of bacon in a 
frying-pan ; remove the bacon. Roll the 
oysters in fine bread-crumbs and saut^ until 
brown on both sides. Place on hot buttered 
toast; sprinkle with lemon-juice and garnish 
with olives. 

36, — Chicken a la Bechamel. 
Clean and season a fat hen. Put a few 
slices of chopped baoiD in a saucepan ; let 
get hot. Add the chicken with 1 carrot, i 
onion, a stalks of celery chopped fine, i herb 
bouquet, I bay-leaf, a few cloves and all- 




Novanbef 

spice and 2 blades of mace, 3 sprigs of 
parsley and i cup of hot water. Let all stew 
until tender ; then add some chopped mush- 
rooms and pour over all t cup of hot rich 



37. — Milanese Vegetable Soup. 
Cut bacon and ham into small pieces ; put 
in a saucepan with i tablespoonful of hot 
butter. Add all kinds of vegetables, cut 
into very small pieces and let fry a few 
minutes. Then fill the pan with i quart of 
beef-stock ; let all cook slowly for half an 
hour ; add some boiled rice and i cup of 
tomato-sauce and cook until done. Serve 
hot. 




1 Salad. 
Cut cold cooked fish into small pieces and 
mix with chopped hard-boiled eggs, a few 
sliced olives, capers and gherkins. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Line the salad bowl 
with crisp lettuce leaves ; add the salad and 
cover with a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish 
with aspic, cut into dice pieces and serve 
cold. 

188 ^3^SJ 



=ou 



November 

ag. — Oriental RabUt Pie. 
Cleaa and cut a rabbit into small pieces 
and let stew, well seasoned with salt and 
pepper and cayenne. Add a chopped cloves 
of garlic, I chopped green pepper, i Spanish 
onion sliced thin and a sliced tomatoes, a 
pinch of cloves and allspice. Tlien line a 
pie-dish with a puff paste ; let bake and fill 
with the rabbit ; add a chopped hard-boiled 
eggs and sprinkle with curry-powder. Cover 
with the paste ; brush the top with a beaten 
egg and let bake until brown. Serve hot. 

3a — Spanish Baked Fish. 
Season a pike; put in a baking-pan. Pour 
over two ounces of melted butter and i pint 
of sour cream ; then let bake in a hot oven 
for twenty minutes. Sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs and grated cheese and let brown on 
top. Serve hoL Garnish with parsley. 




DECEMBER 

I. — English Plum Pudding. 
Soak I pound of stale bread in hot milk; 
then add ^ pound of sugar, i pound of 
seeded raisins, and i pound of currants all 
dredged with flour, ^ pound of chopped cit- 
ron, I pound of finely chopped beef suet, i 
nutmeg grated, i tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
cloves and mace mixed together, a pinch of 
salt, I glass of wine and i glass of fine brandy. 
Mix with the yolks of 8 eggs and the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into 
a wet cloth dredged with flour ; tie well and 
let boil five hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

3.— Swedish Rice Pudding. 
Mix ^ cup of rice in i quart of milk; 
add I cup of sugar, a pincti of salt and t 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into a pudding- 
dish. Put bits of butter over the top and let 
bake in a moderate oven until done. Sem 
cold. 




Detxmbef 

3. — Portugal Soup. 
Boii 3 pounds of beef and 2 pig's feet in 4 
quarts o( water ; season with salt and pepper. 
Let boil welL Add i head of lettuce, yi 
head of cabbage, a few thin slices of putnp- 
kin, 3 carrots and i clove of garlic, all cut 
fine, and i herb bouqu^ Let all cook until 
tender ; then add ^ can of peas. Remove 
the meat ; cut into thin slices ; season, and 
serve with the soup. 

4. — Chinese Salad. 
Mix 3 dozen cooked oysters with 3 truffles, 
and 3 cooked potatoes cut into shreds; 
n with salt and pepper. Add all kinds 
of chopped herbs, and moisten with white 
wine. Line the salad bowl with crisp lettuce 
leaves ; fill with the mixture ; sprinkle with 
finel]' chopped parsley. Pour over a mayon- 
naise dressing and garnish with anchovy 



5. — Egyptian Salad. 

Mix highly seasoned cold cooked rice with 

some grated onion, chopped parsley and 

chives; add a dozen fine cut French 

sardines. Put on crisp lettuce leaves in a 



December 

Bakd bowl and cover with a mayoanuK 
dressing- Garnish with thin shreds of red 
beets, and serve. 

& — English Dumplings. 
Beat 3 yolks of eggs with i tablespoonful 
<^ sugar; add ^ cup of finely chopped 
fluet, ^ cup of currants, )4 tcaspoonful of 
salt and a little nutmeg. Sift i cup of flour 
with I heaping teaspoon ful of baking- 
powder ; mix well with the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Make into dumplings the size of 
an egg; let steam. Serve hot with lemon 
sauce. 

7. — Irish Pancakes. 

Mix ^ pound of sifted flour with a beaten 
e^s, a pinch of salt, a pint of milk and 
^ ounce of melted butter. Mix well to a 
smooth pancake batter and fry in hot lard to 
a delicate brown. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and serve hot, 

8. — Englteh Cream Pudding. 

line a well-buttered pudding-dish with a 

rich puff-paste and bake. Then beat i cup 

of butter with ^ pound of pulverized sugar. 



December 

Add the grated rind and juice of a lemon 
and beat well with the yolks of 6 eggs ; add 
the whites beaten to a froth. Fill the pud- 
ding-dish with the mixture and bake until 
done. 

g Bavarian Roast Turkey. 

Clean and season a fat turkey. Stuff with 
3 raw potatoes, 2 apples and i onion grated. 
Mix with a lump of butter and i cup of bread- 
cmimbs ; add i egg. Season with sage, 
thyme, salt and pepper ; then put in a drip- 
ping-pan. Four in i cup of water and 
dredge with flour. Let bake in a hot oven 
until done. 

la— Jewish Stewed Cabbage. 
Shied a red cabbage very fine. Heat a 
tablespoonfuls of drippings in a pan ; add 
the cabbage ; cover and let stew with 2 apples, 
and I onion chopped fine. Then brown 
I tablespoonful of flour in hot butter; add 
J4 cup of water mixed with vinegar. Season 
with salt, pepper and sugar to taste. Pour 
the sauce over the cabbage ; let simmer ten 
minutes. Add j4 cup of red wine ; let boil 
up and serve hot. 




December 

II. — Venison a la Francaise. 
SeasoD venison steaks with salt, pepper 
and lemon-juice. Put in a saucepan with a 
tablespoonfuls of hot butter. Add i onion, 
2 bay-leaves, i clove of garlic and a sprig of 
parsley minced fine. Let brown ; then add 
^ can of mushrooms, some thyme chopped 
fine and a glass of claret. Cover and let 
simmer until tender. Serve with toasted 
croutons and currant jelly. 

IS. — Italian MacaronL 
Boil macaroni in salted water until tenda. 
Drain. Then heal z tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a saucepan ; add the macaroni, }i cup of 
chopped boiled tongue, )4 cup of chopped 
mushrooms, Ji cup of grated cheese. 
Cover, let get very hot. Then mix a highly 
seasoned tomato-sauce with a small glass of 
wine ; let boil up and pour over the macaroni. 
Serve hot with roast veal. 

13' — Russian Stuffed Tong;ue. 

Take fresh beef-iongue ; make an incision 

with a sharp knife and fill with chopped 

onions, bread-crumbs, a lump of butter, sage, 





December 

thyme, salt and pepper. Sew up and let boil 
until nearly done. Remove the skin. Then 
stick cloves all over the tongue, and let cook 
until tender. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 
and r tablespoonful of butter. Serve, gar- 
nished with sliced beets, olives and sprigs of 
parsley. 

14. — Hungarian Dumplinga. 
Mix 3 eggs with i tablespoonful of water, 
a pinch of salt and enough sifted flour to 
make a stiff dough. Roll out on a well-floured 
baking-board as thin as possible. Cut iuto 
three-inch squares and fill with the following 
mixture: i cup of cottage cheese; mix with 
I tablespoonful of butter, 3 beaten eggs, 
sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Fill 
the dumplings, press the edges well together. 
Boil some milk, seasoned with a pinch of salt 
and sugar to taste. Lay in the dumplings 
and boil until done. Serve with the sauce. 

15.— German Stewed Fish. 

Clean the fish. Cut into large slices; salt 

well and sprinkle with black pepper and let 

stew with sliced onion, some celery and 

parsley. Add a few slices of lemon; let 




Ikcembo' 

cook fifteen minutes to the pound ; then mix 
I tablespoonful of flour with a ubicspoonfuls 
of butter; add to the fish. Let cook five 
minutes more and serve hot or cold. 



i& — French Stuffed Partridge. 
Clean, singe and draw young partridges. 
Season and stuff each bird irith chopped oys- 
ters well seasoned, and sprinkle with parsley. 
Put a small piece of butter in each bird; 
place the birds in a baking-pan; cover with 
thin slices of bacon ; add a little hot water 
and bake in a hot oven until done. Serve 
with toast, 

ij, — Russian Pickled Herring. 
Soak I dozen herring over night in water; 
then mash the milch and roes and mix with 4 
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. Put the her- 
ring in a large dish with 3 large onions sliced ; 
make alternate layere of herring, onions and 
sliced lemon, 8 bay-leaves, a few cloves, whole 
peppers and some mustard seed. Four over 
all some vinegar. Ready to serve in five 
hours. WUl keep for one week. Serve with 
boiled potatoes. 





Decanber 

18.— Hungarian Duck. 
Season and roast the duck ; then cut into 
pieces for serving. Chop the giblets; add to 
the gravy in which the duck was roasted, 
with I glass of red wine, ^ teaspoonful of 
paprica, a pinch of doves and the juice of a 
lemon. Let boil ; add the sliced duck and 
let simmer until tender. Serve hot; garnish 
with fried croutons. 

ig. — Venison a la Parisienne. 

Cut venison into pieces. Heat 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter; add i onion, i bay-leaf, 
2 sprigs of parsley, and 2 of thyme, all chopped 
fine. Add the venison, salt and pepper. Let 
all fry a few minutes; then add i cup of 
consomm^ and let simmer until tender. Add 
■^ glass of sherry and yi can of chopped 
mushrooms. Let all get very hot and serve 
with toasted croutons. 

ao.— Jewish Boiled Fish. 
Clean and season a large fish with salt and 
pepper and let cook with i cup of vinegar, i 
large onion, 2 sprigs of parsley and 2 of thyme, 
I tablespoonful of butler, yi cup of rai- 
sins, a few cloves, i lemon sliced and i tea- 




December 

spoonful of prepared mustard. Let cook until 
done. Remove the fish ; add 3 large pickles 
chopped and ^ cup of sugar, and thicken with 
the yolks of a eggs well beaten. Serve hot or 
cold, garnished with parsley. 

31.— English Stufied Duck. 
Clean and season the duck ; then chop the 
giblets. Add i onion, some celery and pars- 
ley. Mix with I cup of bread-crumbs and a 
beaten egg. Season this highly and fill the 
duck. Put in the dripping-pan with some 
hot water, ^ glass of sherry and a lump of 
butter. Sprinlde with fiour ; bake until done. 
Serve with apple-sauce. 

aa.— French Stewed RabUts. 
Skin and clean the rabbits ; cut into pieces 
at the joints; season well. Heat 3 table- 
spoonfuls of drippings in a stew-pan ; add the 
rabbits, i onion and s cloves of garlic sliced 
fine, I bay-leaf, a sprigs of paisley and thyme. 
Let all brown a few minutes ; then add i cup 
of hot water and cook slowly until tender. 
Thicken the sauce with flour and butter ; add 
a glass of daiet ; boil up and serve. 





December 

33. — Italian Salad. 
Cut t pound of cooked veal in very small 
pieces ; add i herring that has been soaked 
in milk, 3 cooked potatoes, 1 pickles, 3 boiled 
beets, 3 apples, a stalks of celery, i cooked 
canot Pout over a mayonnaise dressing 
and ganiish with sliced haid>boiled eggs, 
olives and capers. 

34.— Hungarian Stewed Pigeons. 
Season the pigeons and stuff with chopped 
chicken. Let stew slowly with chopped 
onions, chives, celery and paisley ; add salt 
and paprlca to taste. Cook until tender. 
Serve hot with beet salad. 

35. — Vienna Baked Goose Breast. 

Take the breast of the goose and cut the 
meat from the bone; chop fine with some 
onion, I clove of garlic, parsley and a little 
thyme, salt, black pepper and paprica. Mix 
with a eggs and fine bread-crumbs. Put the 
chopped breast mixture back on the bone. 
Place in a baking-dish ; pour over some drip- 
sprinkle with flour and bake until 
brown. Serve with sour apple compote. 




December 

a6. — Italian Veal and Macaroni. 
Season tender veal cutlets with salt and 
red pepper and saut6 in hot olive-oil ; then 
cover and simmer until tender. Boil mac- 
aroni until tender J drain. Add the macaroni 
to the veal with i cup of stock, and 3 Uble- 
spoonfuls of chopped cheese. Let all sim- 
mer ten minutes. Put on a platter and cover 
with bread-crumbs fried in bulto'. Serve 
hot. 

37. — French Squirrel Fricassee. 
Cut the squirrels into pieces at the joints ; 
sprinkle well with salt; let lay one hour; 
then sprinlile with pepper and lemon-juice. 
Put a large tablespoonfuls oi dripping in a 
pan; when hot, lay in a squirrel with i 
sliced onion ; cover and let brown. Then 
add I cup of tomato-saucei some celery seed 
and chopped parsley and i cup of hot water. 
Let limmer until tender. Add ^ glass of 
sherry wine. Let get very hot and serve 
with French peas. 

38.— Irish Mutton Stew. 

Season mutton-chops with salt and pepper ; 

put a tablespoonful of hot drippings in a 




December 

saucepan; add the chops, some sliced tur- 
'>^=^ nips, potatoes and onioos, salt and pepper. 
^til3^ Theo cover with water and cook slowlf until 
'^i~'-^> tendo:. Thicken the sauce with a little flour 
sif=^ mixed with }4 cup of milk. Season to taste 
^—^ and serve very hot. 

29. — German Bread Pudding, 
Crumb a stale loaf of bread to make a cup- 
fuls and soak iu i quart of milk. Beat the 
yolks of 4 eggs with i cup of powdered 
sugar ; add the bread, a small cup of raisins 
and the grated peel of a lemon. Mix all 
well. Put in a well-buttered pudding-dish 
and bake until brown. Beat the whites with 
a pinch of salt, sugar and a little lemon -juice 
spread on the top. Let get light brown in 
the oven. Serve with wine sauce. 

30. — Hungarian Spice Cakes. 
Sift I pound of flour; beat the yolks of 4 
eggs with I pound of sugar; add )4 ounce 
ciimamon, ^ ounce of ginger, ^ teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, some grated lemon peel and a 
pinch of salt. Make all into a dough and 
roll into small cakes about an inch in diam- 



DecemBer 

eter. Put on well-butteied baking-plates, 
Bpriokled with flour, and bake in a moderate 
oven until a rich brown. Serve with wine. 



31. — French Braised Sweetbread. 
Parboil the sweetbreads; drain. Put in 
the baking-pan with a piece of salt pork, i 
onion, I carrot, i h&y-leaS and a sprig of 
thyme, all cut fine. Sprinkle with pepper, 
dradgc with flour; add j^ cup of stock. Let 
cook in the oven until done. Serve with 
mushrooms. 



INDEX 



Austrian Dishes 
Apple Omelet, 38. 
" Stnidel, aS. 
Baked Eggs, iij. 
Braiied Tongue, 15. 
Goulaich, I. 
Potato Dnmplingf, 4. 

Bavuisn Dishes 
Apple Ke, 84. 
Cabbage Salad, 39. 
Cheese Cake, 91. 
Fried BraiBs, 83. 
Fruit Compote, 87. 
Pear Pudding, 4. 
' Potatoes, 93. 
Roast Turkey, I38. 
Sauerkraut, 130. 
Stuffed Chicken, lao. 
Wine Soup, 7. 

Belgian Dishes 
1 Baked Bananas, 44. 
Broiled Quail, 1 31. 
Chicken, 113. 
Eggs, 06. 

Fried Calfi Feet, $8. 
]Umb Chops, 37. 
FoMhed Eggs, 84. 



Potato Salad, 13. 
Rice Dessert, 4. 
Roast Lamb, 56. 
Stuffed Shad, 3X 
Sweet Potato Pur^e, 131 
Veal CuUeu, 61. 
« Scallop, 54. 

Dutch Dishes 

Apple Pudding, 93. 
Baked Fish, 55. 
" Mackerel, 18. 



Prune Pudding, 69. 
Rice Fritters, 114. 
" Pudding, 137- 
Salad, 93. 
Stewed Fish, 37. 
Stuffed Goose, 117. 
<• Potatoes, 37. 
Sweet Fouto Puff, 33. 
Veal Slew, 83. 

BnElisb Dlihes 
Boiled Pudding, 46. 




Index 




Cream Pudding, 137. 
Dumplinga, 137. 
Gema, a. 

Ham Sandwiches, 7a. 
Layer Cake, 197. 
Meat Loaf, 44. 
Muffins, 53. 
Peach Pie, 106. 
Pifieon Pie, 135. 
Plum Pudding, tic. 
Roast Veal, 60. 
Salad, 63. 
Stnffed Duck, 143. 

Tans, 89. 
Tea Cakes, 9a 
Yorkshire Pudding, 77, 

French Dishea 
Almond Pndding, 106. 
Apple Fritters, *fi. 
" Pie, 108. 
" Souffli, 33. 
Baked Apple Dump- 
lings, 82. 
" Omelet, 74, 
Braised Sweetbread,i47. 
Bread Pudding a k 

Caramel, 131. 
Boulettes, 33. 
Chicken a U Bechamel, 
13*. 
" a la Tartarc, 59. 
" Croquettes a la 
Reinc, 130. 
Chocolate BUcuiis, cS 
Codfish a la Lyonuiise, 



Duck a' 



[ Cbampignoni, 



Eels a la PoDlette, 116. 

Fish a la MarsdUea, 38. 

" « la Nonnandie, 

Float, 70. 

Fried Cncumben, 88, 

Fritters, 113. 

Frozen Milk Punch, 87. 

Halibut a la Toulooaise, 

128. 
Lemon Cookies, 63. 
Lettuce Salad, 115. 




Mushrooms a U Borde- 

laise, 40. 
Orange Compote, 99, 
Ofslers a la Toulonaise, 

133. 
Parisian Chicken, 55, 
Pineapple Bisque, 5. 
Pop-oveia, 9 J. 
Prune Souffli, 67. 
Roast with Carrots, 43. 
Rolls, 57. 

Spiced Venison, 31. 
Squirrel Fricassee, 145. 
Stewed Quail, 1 30. 

" Rabbits, 143. 
Strawberry Pudding, 78. 
Stufied Partridge, 141. 
Tart, 47. 

Turkey Soup, 118. 
Veal Croquettes a U 
Reine, 78. 



Index 



Vcat Hwh, 73. 

Soafflt, 13. 

Venison a la FntnouM, 

139. 

" a U Psrisienae, 



Qermai) Disbes 
Apple Qtke, 71. 
Baden Stewed Lentils, 14 
Baked Cabbage, gi. 
Boiled Noodles, 55. 
Berlin Herring SaUH, 30. 
Bread Pudding, 146. 

■' Tarte, 103. 
Cheese Pie, 79, 
Cheny Soup, 88, 
Egg Toast, 95. 
Herring Salad, 57. 
Iced Beer Soup, 97. 
LeBtil Soup, II. 
Liver Dumplings, 104. 
Potato Pancakes, 60. 
Pot Roast, 86. 
Prune Kuchen, 43 

" Pudding, 39. 
Spiced Rabbit, 136. 
StEwed Brains, 47. 

« Fish, 140. 
Stuffed Torkey, 1 19. 
Sweet E'retiel), 33, 
Wafae*,ii4. 

Hncsarian Dishm 
Baked Herring, lao. 



Beef Stew, 35. 
Bread Padding, 43. 
Chicken Sonp, 76. 
Duck, 142. 
Dumplings, 140. 
Fried Noodles, 56. 
Fruit Roll, 36. 
Noodle Pudding, 79. 
Spice Cakes, 146. 
Slewed Pigeons, 144. 
Staffed Goose Neck, I3j. 

Irish Dlahe* 
Apple Pudding, 76. 
Baked PoUtoes, 18. 
Batter Cakes, 80. 
Beef Rolls, 53. 
" Stew, 69. 
Cucumber Salad, 96. 
flummerf, 113. 
Ham Omelet, 66. 
Mutton Stew, 145, 
Pancakes, 137. 
Potato PuE^ 96. 

Italian Diataea 
Baked Fish, 116. 
Batter Cakes, 74. 
Bean Polenta, 106. 
Coffee Cream, 66. 
Cooked Eggs, 68. 
Cutlets, 107. 
Ice Cream, j8. 
Macaroni, 130. 
Milanese VegeUble 

Soup, 133. 
Meisitia Macaroni, 69 





It\ld€X 



KoMl B««f, 31. 
Salad, 144. 
Soup, 49. 
Spaghetti, 33. 
Stuffed Tomatoes, 63. 
Sugar Caket, I9. 
Tongue, 39. 
Veal and Macaroni, 

145- 
Veal P«tis, 79. 



JewlBh Dishea 

Boiled Fish, 143. 
Chrim!<el, 99. 
Crebcheo Soup, 11. 
Dumplings, 49. 
Egg Bread, 41. 
Gefuellte FUh, 107. 
Goose Greeben, 131. 



Kueel, 51. 
?udding, ^9. 

Torle, 46. 



Fnrim Cake 



Shalltt, a6. 
Sour Fish, toj. 
Stewed Brains, 28. 

" Brisket, 36. 

" Cabbage, 138. 

" GooK, 139. 



Orienul Diahea 
Bombay Broiled Kidney, 
41. 
" Chicken Cro- 
quettes, 100. 
" Spinach, 17, 
Chicken Chop Suey 

(Chinese) a6. 
Chinese Chicken, 3. 
" Chop Sue/, tit. 
" NowJJe Soup, 

64. 
<■ Salad, 136. 
East lodin Fish, i. 
Egyptian Cabbage, 6. 
" Meal 6^ 3. 
" Meat Pie, 8. 

Salad, 136. 
'■ Stuffed Pep- 
pers, 90. 
Greek Cakes, to2. 
" Cucumbers, 94- 
" Stuffed Egg- 
plant, 35- 
Hindu Eggs, 65. 

" Oysler Fritters, 

98. 
•■ Venison, 124. 
India Beef Cuny, III. 
" Canapes, 59. 
" Curried Eggs, 10. 
Indian Rice, 76. 
Japanese Chicken, taj. 
EgB. 35. 
" Fish, 113. 
" Rice, 44. 
" Salad, 30. 
Madras Baked Fish, 6. 



Index 



Madiu Curried Apples, 



S3- 
Oiiental Cabbage, 93. 
" Canapes, 14. 
" Pudding, 110. 
" Rabbit Pie, 134. 
" Stewed Prawns, 

19- 
" Vegetable 
Curry, 64. 
Turkish Pudding, 3. 
« Purie, 51. 
« Soup, 40. 
•• Stewed Lamb, 
7S- 

Poliah Dishes 
Apple Dumpling, 85. 
Bread Pudding, 83. 
Chicken Soup, loi. 

Filled'Fiail, 115. 
Poached Eggs, 127. 
Rice Pudding, 139. 
Roasl Mutton, 19. 
Shricpp Salad, 91. 
Stewed Bean;, 4S, 

" Calves' Feet, 
109. 



RuBBian Dishea 
Beef Roll, 94. 



BoUed Iltb, 9. 
Chicken Patties, 3a 
Fish-Roll, 10. 
Fried Sneetbrtads, 85. 
National Soup, III, 
Omelet, 15. 
Pancakes, j. 
Pickled Herring, 141. 
Pol Roast, 70. 
Relish, J7. 
Rice Pudding, 60. 
Salad, ^J. 
Sandwich, toj. 
Stewed Chicken, 18. 
" Duck, 30. 

Stuffed Tongue, 139. 
Scotch EKsbea 
Baked Mutton, 32. 
" Potatoes, 71. 
Cream Muffins, 47. 
Hag^s, 14. 
Loaf Cake, 44. 
Omelet, 41. 
Potato Stew, 49. 
Pudding, 61. 
Rarebit, 66. 

Soup, 86. 

Stewed Onions, Si. 
" Tripe, 109. 

Stuffet" " — " ■ 

S| 



hdex 



Baked Fish, 134. 
Broiled Kidney, 89. 

" Steak, 68. 
Cake, 9. 
Canapes, 78. 
Chicken, 91. 
Codfish, laS. 

Fricasseed Shrimps, 17. 
Fried Chicken, 4s. 
•■ Rsh, I at 
■' Potatoes, 87. 
Mushrooms, ai. 
Portugal Iced Pudding, 
75- 

" Salad, 77. 

" Soup, 136. 

" Veai Stew, 65. 
Pufis,S4. 
Relish, 99. 
Rice, loi. 
Roost Veal, 52. 
Salad, 71. 
Steak Roll. 93. 
Stewed Rabbit, 31. 
Tongue, 124. 

Swedish Diibea 
£aked Fish, 1 18. 

" Turnips, 43. 
Batter Cakes, iia 
Cabbage, 135. 
Norwegian Fish Pud- 
ding, 3S- 
« Fruit Pud- 

ding, 53. 
" Rice, 89. 



Norwegian Soup, loa. 

Pie. 34, 

Rice Podding, 135, 

Salad, 133. 

Stewed Chicken, 115. 




Swiaa Diabea 
Baked Eggs, 16. 
Beet Sakd, 100. 
Biscuits, 113. 
Creamed Potatoes, iia. 
Fried Sweetbreads, 133. 
Pancakes, 89. 
Peach Custard, 7a, 
Ke, 45. 

Potato Dumpling, 85. 
Pot Roast, 40. 
Roast Turkey, 1 17. 
Steak, 30. 
Veal Pie, lOI. 

VienneM DiBbea 
Baked Goose Breast, 

144. 
Cheese Torte, 56. 
Cherry Cake, &(. 
Dumplings, ijg. 
Filled Apples, 108. 
Milk Rolls, 48. 
Noodle Pudding, 33. 
Nui Tone, 39, 
Peach Tone, 8. 
Potato Salad, 73. 
Rice Custard, 88. 
Roast Beef, 13a, 
Slewed Carroti^ 9, 



r^ 



