
PRESERVING 
OF FRUIT, VEGETABLES AND MEAT 



E. WAGNER 



RECIPES FOR THE PRESERVING OF 
FRUIT, VEGETABLES, AND MEAT 



RECIPES FOR 

THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 
VEGETABLES, AND MEAT 



E. WAG-NEE 



TECHNICAL MANAGER OF THE PRESERVING AND MARMALADE DEPARTMENTS 
OF THE TRACHENBERG SUGAR BOILING WORKS 



TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN 
BY CHAS. SALTER 



WITH FOURTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS 



LONDON 

SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON 
8 BROADWAY, LUDGATE HILL, E.G. 



CANADA : THE COPP CLARK CO. LTD., TORONTO 
UNITED STATES : D. VAN NOSTRAND CO., NEW YORK 

1908 

[The sole right of Translation into English rests with Scott, Greenwood <k Son] 




." 



3 



\ 



PREFACE 



IT has been long the desire of the author to bring 
out a larger useful work on the preserving industry 
in its present state, but the continued introduction 
of improvements in the last few years prevented 
an exhaustive report being drawn up. At present, 
however, we may be said to have reached a certain 
degree of stability, at least so far as the important 
matter of stoppers and closing devices is concerned. 

The author has therefore, on the basis of his 
practical experience of over thirty years' duration, 
endeavoured in the present work to provide 
instruction for both the beginner and the expert. 

The points dealt with comprise the recipes and 
instructions for preserving, and the necessary 
utensils and machinery, the work being divided 
into three parts : the first dealing with the 
preserving of fruit, the second with that of 
vegetables, and the third with preserved meat. 

V 

380653 



vi PREFACE 

In all recipes the weights have been given in 
order to minimise the chance of error, and also 
to enable beginners to work according to instruc- 
tions. 

It is also hoped that the book will be of service 
as an advisor and work of reference to preserve- 
makers and their managers ; and if this result be 
attained, the author will have the gratification of 
feeling that he has supplied a genuine need. 

THE AUTHOE. 
1906. 



CONTENTS 



PART I. PRESERVED FRUITS. 



PAGE 

Preserved Fruits ... 3 
Green Almonds ... 5 
Gooseberries .... 6 
Garden Strawberries . . 7 
Wild Strawberries . . . 8 
Currants .... 8 
Unstoned Cherries . . 8 
Stoned Cherries ... 9 
Unstoned Mahaleb (Scented) 

Cherries .... 9 
Black (Unskinned) Nuts . 9 
White Nuts . . . .10 
Apricots cut in Halves and 

Skinned .- . . .11 
Unskinned Apricots cut in 

Halves .... 11 
Whole Apricots . . .11 
Mirabelle (Small Yellow) 

Plums . . . .12 
Greengages . . . .12 
Whole Pears. . . .13 
Halved Pears . . .14 
Cornelian Cherries . .14 
Peaches (Halved) ... 15 
Peaches (Whole) . . .15 

Quinces 16 

Roseberries . . . .16 
Skinned Plums . . .17 
Raspberries . . . .18 
Blackberries . . . .18 
Bilberries . . . .18 
Cranberries . . . .18 

Figs 19 

Melons 20 

Apples 20 

Genoa Oranges, Green and 

Yellow .... 21 
Chestnuts . . . .21 
Angelica . . . .22 
Mixed Fruit . . . .22 
Pineapple . . . .23 
Plums in Vinegar . . .23 
Cherries in Vinegar . . 24 

CANNED FRUIT. 

Gooseberries . . . .25 
Strawberries, Uncooked . 25 



PAGE 

Currants . . . .26 
Dark Cherries with the Stones 

in 26 

Light Cherries with the Stones 

in 26 

Stoned Cherries . . .26 
Mahaleb or Scented Cherries . 27 
Pears, Whole or in Halves . 27 
Apricots, cut into Halves . 27 
Apricots, Whole Fruit . . 28 
Skinned Apricots . . . 28 
Small Yellow (Mirabelle) 

Plums .... 28 
Greengages . . . .29 
Peaches, Whole or Halved . 29 
Late Plums, Unstoned . . 29 
Preserved Rhubarb . . 30 
Bilberries . . . .30 

GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 

Glazing Fruit . . .33 

Candied Fruit . . .35 

Blue Plums . . . .36 

Glazed Chestnuts . . .37 

Glazed Pineapple Slices . 39 

Crystallised Strawberries . 40 

Mustarda . . . .40 

MARMALADES, JAMS, AND 
FRUIT JUICES. 

Strawberry Marmalade . . 45 

Raspberry Marmalade . . 45 

Currant Marmalade . . 45 

Scented Cherry Marmalade . 46 

Cherry Marmalade . . 46 

Greengage Marmalade . . 46 

Late Plum Marmalade . . 46 

Peach Marmalade . . .46 

Roseberry Marmalade . . 46 

Apricot Marmalade (Best) . 46 
Apricot Marmalade (Second 

Quality) .... 47 

Steeped Plums . . .47 

Apple Marmalade . . 47 

English Orange Marmalade . 47 

Tomato Marmalade . . 48 

Apricot Jam . . . .48 



Vlll 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 


PAGE 


Gooseberry Jam . . .48 


Currant Jelly . . .56 


Red Curraut Jam . . .49 


Raspberry Jelly . . .56 


Raspberry Jam . . .49 


Strawberry Jelly . . .56 


Strawberry Jam . . .49 


Cranberry Jelly . . .56 


Cherry Jam . . . . 49 


Blackberry Jelly ... 56 


Morella Cherry Jam . . 50 


Apricot Jelly . . .56 


Bilberry Jam . . .50 


Peach Jelly . . . .56 


Blackberry Jam . . . 50 


Raspberry Juice . . .57 


Strawberry and Gooseberry 


Strawberry Juice . . .58 


Jam 52 


Cherry Juice . . .58 


Plum Jam . . . 52 


Lemon Syrup . . .59 


Raspberry and Red Currant 


Orange Syrup . . .59 


Jam 52 


Pineapple Juice . . .60 


Pineapple Jam . . .52 


Fruit Pulp for Ices . . 61 


FRUIT JELLIES. 


Citron Peel and Orange 
Peel 62 


Apple Jelly . . . .55 


Orange Peel . . . .65 


Quince Jelly . . . .55 


Neutralin . . . . 66 


PAET IL PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 


General Remarks . . . 71 i Leipzig All-Sorts . . .93 


Asparagus . . . .78 


Celery Chunks ... 93 


Peas 80 


Mushrooms . . . .93 


Beans 85 


Edible Boletus . .94 


Flageolet Beans . . .85 


Morels, Orange Agaric (Lact- 


Sliced Beans .... 86 


arium), Chanterelles, etc. . 94 


French Beans . . 86 


Pickled Mushrooms . . 95 


Carrots 88 


Truffles 95 


Spinach . . . .89 


Pickled Gherkins (Cornichons) 96 


Artichokes . . . .89 


Salted Gherkins ... 96 


Tomatoes . . . .90 


Gherkins in Mustard . . 97 


Mixed Vegetables (Macedoine) 92 


Mixed Pickles ... 98 


Tinned Julienne . . .92 


Piccalilli .... 98 


PART III. PRESERVED MEATS. 


Preserved Meats . . . 103 


Ox Tongue with Puree of 


Veal Cutlets . . . .104 


Peas or Sauerkraut . .109 


Veal Cutlets and Peas . . 104 


Ribs of Pork and Sauerkraut 109 


Fricandeau of Veal and Rolled 


Vienna Sausage and Sauer- 


Veal 105 


kraut 109 


Roast Veal . . . .105 


Beef a la Mode . . .110 


Veal Goulasch . . .105 


Roast Hare and Macaroni . 110 


Calf's Head en Tortue . .106 


Roast Venison . . .111 


Servian Rice Meat . . .106 


Roast Wild Boar . . .111 


Beef Goulasch . . .106 


Mutton and Cabbage . .111 


Bouillon Meat . . .107 


Ox Tongue . . . .112 


Roast Beef . . . . 107 


Savoury Paste (Appetit-Pain) 113 


Roast Beef and Onions or 


Beef Paste . . . -113 


Sardines . . . .108 


Hare Paste . . . .114 


Steak and Potatoes . . 108 


Venison Paste . . .114 


Hungarian Sirloin . . . 108 


Game Paste .... 114 


Szekely Goulasch . . .108 


Foie Gras Paste . . .115 




Index . .117 



r 



PART I. 
PRESERVED FRUITS 



PRESERVED FRUITS. 

FOR simplicity this section will be divided into 
stewed fruits in bottles and tins ; candied fruits ; 
fruit juices and pulps ; jellies and marmalades. 
The manufacture of citron, orange peel, etc., is dealt 
with separately. 

The first point to be observed is that the best 
utensils for boiling fruit are shallow copper or 
enamelled pans, about 18 inches across, 4 inches 
deep, and fitted with two handles. The fruit syrup 
for candied fruit is preferably stored in stoneware 
jars, or deep earthenware dishes, glazed inside, and 
holding about 20 Ib. These must be kept in a 
good, dry cellar, whereas a cool room on the ground 
floor is sufficient for bottled fruit. 

Steam-heating is the best for preserving, though 
fairly large quantities can be boiled over a coke 
fire. A few coke fires are also required for 
certain purposes, even when steam-heated plant is 
employed. 

The manufacture of patent stoppers for glass 
vessels has now reached such a state of perfection 
that one or other of the various kinds on the 
market (e.g. the " Phoenix " or " Le Cachet ") should 
invariably be used. They are fixed in position by 

3 



4 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

a machine, supplied by the makers, and make a 
perfectly tight joint, besides being easy to open. 

The sterilising process is performed in an iron 
tank, fitted with a steam coil (Fig. 1) and an over- 
lying grating, on which rest the wooden crates 
containing the bottles. A steam closet (Fig. 2), 
heated by direct steam, may also be used for this 
purpose. 

The fruit is filled into the bottles by girls or 
women armed with long-handled wooden knives 
or brass forks. 




JJ'IG. i. 

The clarified syrup should have a density of 25. 

Bottled fruits should always be sterilised for 
10 minutes, from the time boiling-point is reached, 
in the case of J-bottles, 12 minutes for J -bottles, 
and 15 minutes for full-size bottles. Only in the 
case of halved apricots, peaches, and similar fruits 
that lie closely together, should a few minutes 
extra be allowed. 

Fruits that change colour when heated (e.g. white 
pears, peaches, and gooseberries) should be separated 
after sterilising, in order to accelerate cooling. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 



Green Almonds. 

The fruit, gathered at the proper time, is partially 
freed from the adhering skin, and then boiled for 
several minutes in the proportion of 11 Ib. of fruit 




FIG. 2. Steam closet. 

to a gallon of water (containing 9 oz. of carbonate 
of soda). As soon as the skins have loosened, the 
fruit is quickly turned into cold water, cleaned, and 
laid in fresh water. In the evening the almonds 
are placed in a copper pan containing boiling water, 



6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

about J a pint of vinegar, and a handful of salt, 
the whole being stirred up and the steam turned 
off. 

Next day the almonds are blanched in the same 
water, but raised to the boil very slowly, the fruit 
then regaining its original green colour. Boiling 
takes 1^-2 hours, according to quality. After 
cooling in repeated changes of water, the almonds 
are punctured with needles and immersed in sugar 
of 18 density. For compote the density is in- 
creased to 28 by four treatments, and the fruit 
is packed with fresh sugar. 

. In the case of syrup fruit, which is inspissated 
to 38, an addition of 50 per cent, of syrup is given 
to prevent candying. 

Gooseberries. 

Only the large green kinds are suitable for 
preserving. The fruit is gathered when full grown, 
but still quite hard, " topped," and nicked with a 
cross cut, not too deep. When a sufficient quantity 
has been treated in this way, it is put into a 
shallow copper pan containing boiling water, with 
a little salt and vinegar, the pan being taken off 
the fire at once and placed on one side. 

Next day the fruit is carefully heated in the 
same pan over a slow fire and gently stirred with 
the skimming spoon, until the gooseberries rise to 
the surface, whereupon they are taken off the fire 
and cooled with a plentiful flow of water. When 
cold, place in cold 20 sugar, the next day 



PRESERVED FRUITS 7 

in 22 sugar, the third day in 24 sugar, and the 
fourth day in 28 sugar, this time heating the 
fruit and sugar slowly and with care, whereupon 
the green colour will reappear. When cold, the 
berries are bottled with fresh sugar. 

Garden Strawberries. 

So-called " transparent " strawberries are obtained 
by the following method : Large, firm fruit is 
separated from the stalks, washed and placed on 
hair sieves, 10 Ib. at a time. Five Ib. of best 
sugar are dissolved in a corresponding quantity of 
water, mixed with an equal amount of syrup and 
a few drops of acetic acid, and boiled until a skin 
forms. The fruit is then added and boiled for 
about 10 minutes over a low fire, with continued 
shaking, until the fruit looks clear. Then skim 
and set aside to cool, afterwards return to the fire, 
boil up, skim and recool. Colouring is added after 
the first boiling. A little water must be sprinkled 
in at each boiling, in order to keep the density of 
the syrup down to 32 when finished. 

Another method of preserving strawberries is to 
dissolve a suitable quantity of sugar to a solution 
of 32 density, colouring it with fruit red. A flat 
copper or enamelled pan is half -filled with the 
cleaned fruit, and sufficient syrup to cover it. The 
pan is placed on the fire and the contents raised 
to boiling, with continued shaking, then taken off 
and skimmed. After several hours the pan is put 
on the fire again, boiled and skimmed, and this 



8 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

operation is repeated until the syrup has thickened 
sufficiently. If properly managed, a batch of fruit 
can be finished in one day. For bottling it is 
preferable to use fresh, coloured syrup, the other 
being utilised for strawberry syrup. 

Wild Strawberries. 

Dry, very ripe wild strawberries are picked over, 
placed in flat enamel pans, and covered with boiling, 
coloured sugar of 30 density. After cooling, the 
\vhole is heated to boiling, skimmed, and recooled. 

The fruit is bottled with the same sugar, with 
the aid of a perforated spoon, care being taken to 
have the fruit and sugar in the right proportions. 

Currants. 

Large berries are taken, carefully separated from 
the stalks, and placed in a shallow pan, boiling, 
red-stained sugar of 30 strength being poured over 
them. At the end of several hours the whole is 
gradually raised to the boil, skimmed, and allowed 
to cool before bottling. 

Unstoned Cherries. 

Hard, dark-coloured cherries are separated from 
their stalks, and heated in water, with continued 
stirring, until the stones have somewhat loosened 
without the fruit bursting. Remove quickly, and 
place in hot 18 sugar. When cold, bottle with 
the same sugar, diluted to 15 and filtered. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 9 

Stoned Cherries. 

Large, white-heart cherries are used, the colour 
having been improved by sulphuring them over- 
night. After stoning, the fruit is blanched by 
strong ebullition, and as soon as nearly soft, is 
treated with sufficient new-red to impart a fine 
colour. It is then placed in red-stained sugar 
(20) and left all night, covered over with paper. 
Next day concentrate to 28, in stages of 3, and 
boil to a finish. 

In bottling, take care that the hollows of the 
fruit are filled with sugar to prevent the top layer 
of fruit from becoming dry after evaporation. 

Unstoned Mahaleb (Scented) Cherries. 

The darker kinds are used for bottling. The 
treatment is the same as for ordinary cherries 
with the stones in. 

Black (Unskinned) Nuts. 

The time for preserving these is July. The nuts 
shoiild not offer the slightest resistance at the tips 
when cut with a knife, though they must be properly 
developed. The nuts are pricked all over with 
stout needles, and placed in a tub of water, where 
they are left for 10-14 days, the water being 
changed daily. 

They are next blanched with plenty of water in 
large pans, this taking about 2 hours, so that they 



io THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

no longer stick to an inserted needle, after which 
they are carefully moistened. 

The sugar used on the first day should be cold 
and of 15 density, being concentrated to 18, and 
recooled for use on the second day. This concentra- 
tion is repeated (3) daily, the sugar being always 
used cold and the nuts kept in a cool place. When 
28 is reached the sugar is poured on hot, and the 
nuts lightly boiled up with it. 

Pack with fresh sugar, placing a small packet of 
cloves and cinnamon in the bottle. If the nuts are 
to be kept in storage receptacles for subsequent 
use, they should be placed in sugar overnight, and 
put into gallon jars with hot sugar (28), then 
fastened down and stewed for J an hour in a water- 
bath. 

White Nuts. 

Only the largest and finest nuts should be used, 
the common sorts being left alone. 

In peeling, cut off sufficient at top and bottom to 
reveal the white flesh ; then finish peeling with 
eight to ten circular cuts, and place in water contain- 
ing " neutralin " (q.v.). When a sufficient quantity 
has been done, they are slowly blanched in a bright 
pan, in water containing a little citric acid, until 
the nuts will no longer stick to the needle. The 
work must be very carefully done, and only a 
copper or enamelled earthenware vessel used. The 
further treatment is the same as for black nuts, 
and must be slowly and carefully performed to 
prevent wrinkling. 



PRESERVED FRUITS n 

In packing into glasses, the nuts are taken out 
of the first sugar, mixed with fresh (25) sugar, 
and stewed for J an hour on a water-bath. 

Apricots cut in Halves and Skinned. 

Early apricots that are still hard, though already 
yellow, are cut in halves, skinned by hand, and laid 
in water containing a little neutralin. They are then 
heated, with constant stirring and repeated additions 
of water, until the fruit rises to the surface, where- 
upon they are taken out and cooled. Later on place 
them in sugar of 24 density, and the next day 
pack with fresh sugar (25), and sterilise. 

Unskinned Apricots cut in Halves. 

The fruit must first be preserved in gallon jars. 
The ripe, but not overripe, apricots are divided, 
packed closely into gallon jars, and covered with 
sugar (34). The jars are then closed, immersed 
in boiling water for J an hour, thoroughly 
cooled, and put into store. 

In four to six weeks the fruit will have become 
sufficiently saturated with the sugar solution to 
be ready for bottling. Sugar of 25 density is 
used for this purpose, and the bottles are placed 
in hot water as usual. 

Whole Apricots. 

The whole apricots are pricked with needles 
and preserved in gallon' jars as above, being after- 



12 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

wards bottled. They may, however, be prepared 
for immediate bottling by sulphuring the fruit, 
blanching it carefully in water, and then treating 
several times with sugar. 

Nevertheless, the former method is preferable 
when working on a large scale, since it enables 
large quantities of fruit to be dealt with at a 
time, the troublesome operation of packing being 
deferred until later. 

Mirabelle (Small Yellow) Plums. 

The plums are pricked in a machine, then 
placed in a large quantity of water containing 
a little powdered burnt alum, and slowly heated 
to boiling with constant stirring. As soon as they 
begin to float and crack, they must be taken out 
and placed in cold water. When cold, place them 
in 20 sugar, concentrate to 20, and bottle with 
fresh sugar. 

Greengages. 

The true, round green fruit, fully grown but still 
firm, is pricked in a machine after the stalks 
have been removed, and put into a large tub with 
fresh water. 

In the evening, water containing a handful of 
salt and a suitable quantity of vinegar, is boiled 
in a large copper pan, the drained fruit is put in, 
and the steam turned off. The fruit is covered 
with a suitable plate of copper, care being taken 
that there is enough water in the pan to overtop 



PRESERVED FRUITS 13 

this cover by about 4 inches, this being the only 
way in which the uppermost fruit can be prevented 
from becoming brown and useless. The small 
outlay involved must therefore not be begrudged. 
Of course a copper strainer will do equally 
well. 

On the following day the fruit is blanched, in 
smaller lots, with the same water, being kept 
stirred with the skimming ladle until nearly boiling. 
When the fruit rises to the top and begins to show 
a network of cracks, it is taken out and thoroughly 
cooled in running water. 

The cooled fruit is next placed in a shallow pan 
and covered with 20 sugar, this being concentrated 
on the following day to 24, poured over the 
fruit again, and the whole heated. When cold once 
more the fruit is bottled with fresh sugar (25). 

Whole Pears. 

Only certain varieties, such as muscadine pears, 
egg pears, French beurre pears, and rousselets, are 
suitable for preserving. The fruit should be full 
grown, but the pips still white, though with a slight 
tinge of brown at the tips. At this stage also the 
fruit will bear the sulphuring necessary for attaining 
perfect whiteness. The pears may also be used unsul- 
phured, being then treated with a little neutralin 
(q.v.) in blanching. 

The best way to peel the fruit is in a peeling 
machine, neutralin being added to the water. When 
a sufficient number has been peeled, the pears are 



14 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

blanched iu plenty of water until they no longer 
stick to the needle, this stage being reached in 
about 2530 minutes. 

When thoroughly cooled, the pears which, of 
course, have had the cores cut out before peeling 
are pricked and placed in a 20 solution of sugar, 
being then left overnight covered with paper. 

The following day the sugar is concentrated to 
22, and the day after that to 25, and heated up 
with the fruit, the concentration being afterwards 
continued (next day) to 28, and the cooled fruit 
bottled with fresh sugar. 

Pears that are defective in colour or spotted are 
coloured red on the second day, by adding new- 
red or fruit-red to the sugar, and heating the 
whole up together gradually, the further treatment 
being the same as just described. 

Halved Pears. 

The kinds suitable for this method are the 
summer lemon pear and summer bergamot. The 
fruit is peeled in the machine, cut into halves, 
and the cores taken out with a suitable instrument, 
the fruit being then blanched and treated as already 
described. 

Cornelian Cherries. 

Large ripe fruit is taken, cleaned, heated in 
water, like cherries, so as not to break, and placed 
at once in a red-stained solution of sugar (18). 
Next day it is bottled, the same sugar being poured 



PRESERVED FRUITS 15 

over it after reconcentration to the original strength 
(18) and filtering. 



Peaches (Halved). 

The best sorts for preserving are the late varieties 
in which the stones do not become detached, and 
the fruit is white fleshed with brown stones. 

They must be in such a condition of ripeness 
that they can be peeled in the machine. The 
peeled fruit is cut in halves by means of a short, heavy 
knife, which is inserted into the furrow, a short 
blow being struck on a hardwood chopping board, so 
as to split stone and all. The stone is taken out 
with the same knife and the fruit trimmed up. 

The peaches are blanched, a few at a time, 
in a copper pan with water containing a little 
neutralin, by heating them quickly to boiling and 
then leaving them to draw slowly. After cooling 
in plenty of water the fruit is placed in a 20 
solution of sugar, which is reconcentrated next day, 
the peaches being bottled with fresh sugar. 

It is also advisable in this case to first preserve 
the fruit in gallon jars containing 30 sugar, the 
jars being then heated in the water-bath for i an 
hour. Later on, when time allows, they can be 
bottled. This method gives better results. 

~^ ^\ Peaches (Whole). 

The smaller varieties with green or white flesh, 
in which the stones become detached the so-called 



16 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

muscatel peach are suitable. They must be ripe 
enough for the skin to loosen when the fruit is 
thrown into boiling water, boiled quickly for some 
time, and then thrown into cold water. 

The treatment is the same as described above. 



Quinces. 

Only the apple quince is suitable for preserving, 
the pear quince being used solely for quince marma- 
lade. The fruit is peeled in a machine, cut up into 
six to eight pieces, and the cores cut out with care. 
The water should contain a little neutral in. 

When a sufficient number have been got ready, 
the cut pieces are quickly heated to boiling in 
plenty of water, whereupon steam is turned off, and 
the fruit left to draw, covered over with a wooden 
lid, until soft enough, i.e. until the pieces no longer 
stick to the needle. When cool they are placed 
in 18 sugar, and bottled after concentration to 26. 
One portion may be coloured red, as described for 
pears. 

For stock jars, the blanched fruit is covered with 
25 sugar, and sterilised 25-30 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Roseberries. 

The large garden berries are freed from adherent 
thorns by rubbing them in a bag, and then cut 
off at the tips sufficiently low down to enable the 
kernels to be extracted with a suitable wire hook. 
The fruit is slowly blanched in water, containing 



PRESERVED FRUITS 17 

a little burnt alum, until it feels soft, and is then 
placed in cold 18 sugar containing a little fruit- 
red. The next day it is concentrated to 26, and 
then bottled with fresh sugar. 

The wild berries are preserved with the kernels 
in, for mixed fruits, the tips being cut off far enough 
to make an opening. The fruit is scalded in boiling 
water, and placed in quart jars with 25 sugar, 
being then sterilised for 2580 minutes on a water- 
bath. 

Skinned Plums. 

The only suitable variety is the large late plum, 
the summer kinds being useless for bottling. The 
fruit must be still hard, though with a good yellow 
flesh. The skins are removed by dropping a few 
plums at a time into boiling water, boiling them until 
the skin cracks, and then placing them quickly in 
cold water, whereupon the skins come away easily. 
The skinned fruit is placed in shallow pans with 
fresh water, containing a little neutralin, this 
enabling the yellow colour to be retained. The 
pan is slowly heated over the fire, with constant 
stirring, until the plums begin to float, whereupon 
they are removed and cooled with plenty of 
water. 

They are left overnight in 20 sugar, which is 
concentrated to 24 next day, the fruit being heated 
at the same time. When cold, bottle with fresh 
25 sugar. 

Plums bottled in their skins are best preserved 
tirst in gallon jars. The plums are pricked in a 



i8 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

machine, scalded for a moment in boiling water, 
and covered with 34 sugar, then sterilised 30 
minutes on a water-bath. In this way the shape 
and appearance of the fruit are preserved. 

Raspberries. 

For transparent preserve, dry, fine garden 
raspberries are taken and treated in the same way 
as strawberries. Wild raspberries for bottling are 
placed" in a shallow enamelled pan, suffused with 
boiling 28 sugar, and left to stand. Later on 
the whole is carefully heated, and bottled when cold. 

Blackberries. 

The treatment is the same as for wild raspberries. 

Bilberries. 

The berries are picked, washed, and put into 
sieves. Three parts of sugar are boiled until a 
skin forms, then mixed with 7 parts of fruit, and 
carefully raised to boiling, and skimmed. When 
cold the fruit is ladled into bottles and sterilised 
on the \vater-bath. 

Cranberries. 

Large selected berries for bottling are heated to 
boiling in water, then taken out at once and placed 
in red-stained sugar of 20 strength. Next 
day the sugar is concentrated to 24, the berries 



PRESERVED FRUITS 19 

and sugar are heated in shallow pans, and bottled 
when cold. 

For compote in bottles or jars, 50 Ib. of sugar 
should be used for every 100 Ib. of fruit. The 
sugar is dissolved and boiled to strong syrup ; the 
picked, washed berries being added and carefully 
stirred while the mass is being slowly raised to 
boiling. The whole is then skimmed, and the opera- 
tion repeated several times, boiling being continued 
until a test sample thickens to a jelly. The mass is 
then cooled a little and packed whilst still hot. 

Figs. 

These may be kept fresh, but can also be 
preserved, first in gallon jars by pricking the fruit 
and blanching it with plenty of water (containing 
neutralin) until it no longer sticks to the needle. 
It is then placed in the jars, covered with 34 
sugar, and sterilised for -J- an hour on the water- 
bath. Treated in this way, the figs preserve 
their fine yellow colour, and are better fitted for 
bottling. 

If the figs have been stored in brine they must 
first be carefully drained. When desired to remain 
yellow and not acquire a green colour, they must 
be blanched in a properly tinned or enamelled pan. 
Salt figs take nearly 2 hours to soften properly, 
which done, they are cooled and laid in sugar of 
22 strength, afterwards increased to 25, and 
finally to 28, the figs being heated with the sugar 
at the finishing stage. 



20 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Melons. 

The only kinds suitable for preserving are the 
network melon and the Cantaloupe. The proper 
stage of ripeness is reached when the fruit will 
give at the tip under the pressure of the fingers, 
otherwise the melons must be stored until this 
condition is attained. The fruit is cut into halves, 
the seeds taken out, and the flesh cut into slices, 
the skin being removed and the side next the core 
trimmed smooth. 

The slices are placed overnight in water contain- 
ing 50 per cent, of vinegar, which makes the flesh 
contract. Next day the melons are heated to boil- 
ing with the same water in large pans, then covered 
up and left to draw. When all the slices are clear 
and properly softened, they are cooled down, the 
rear sides are pricked with needles, and the slices 
laid in cold 29 sugar, concentrated next day to 
22, and finally to 25, the fruit being then heated 
with the sugar. When cold, it is bottled with fresh 
sugar. 

Apples. 

Apples are rarely used in the form of compote, be- 
ing generally stored in jars for subsequent mixing. 

Only a few of the better sorts of apples are 
suitable for compote, and these are blanched (with 
an addition of neutralin), steeped overnight in 18 
sugar, and packed next day with 22 sugar. They 
are peeled in a machine, cut into halves, and the 
cores removed. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 21 

Apples for storage in jars are treated with 30 
sugar solution, and after being cooled in water, 
are placed in the jars at once, sugar being added, 
and the whole sterilised for J an hour on the 
water-bath. 

Genoa Oranges, Green and Yellow. 

The peeled fruit, bought in a pickled condition, 
is moistened and then blanched in a bright copper 
pan with plenty of soft water. The green fruit 
takes 2 1 hours, the yellow 2 hours. 

After cooling in plenty of running water, the 
fruit is pricked and placed in an 18 sugar solution, 
which is concentrated next day to 21, and after- 
wards to 24, at which stage the fruit is heated with 
the sugar. The concentration is increased to 26, 
and next day to 28, the fruit being heated this 
time also. When cold it is packed with fresh sugar. 

The yellow oranges may also be coloured red by 
staining the first sugar with fruit-red. 

Chestnuts. 

The large Italian or French chestnuts are used, 
these being shelled, and steeped overnight in water 
containing neutralin. 

Next day the chestnuts are placed in shallow 
wicker baskets, which are laid on a lath grating in 
a suitable pan, the grating being weighted down 
with stones. A few pounds of flour, stirred to a 
pap with water, are added to the blanching water. 



22 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The water is slowly raised to boiling, and left to 
draw for an hour. Meanwhile a solution of sugar 
(18) is prepared and placed in a shallow copper or 
enamelled pan, the peeled chestnuts being added. 
(Enough hands should be employed to get through 
the peeling quickly.) Half a stick of vanilla is 
placed in each pan, and the sugar is concentrated 
by heating the pans on the water-bath. Next day 
the chestnuts may be packed, fresh vanilla sugar 
of 25 density being used. 

Angelica. 

The roots are sorted into thick, medium, and thin, 
the latter being bottled, whilst the thicker kinds are 
preserved in thick sugar as garnishing fruit. 

The roots are slowly blanched in a copper 
pan, about 1 A hours being required. Just before the 
finish, a little copper sulphate is added to give 
the fine, bright colour. Then water, and treat 
in shallow pans like other fruit. Angelica in 
thickened sugar must contain at least 50 of 
syrup to prevent it from drying and becoming 
candied. 

Mixed Fruit. 

The preparation of the several fruits has already 
been described ; but if a clear mixture be desired, 
no stained fruits must be used, since these always 
part with some of the colouring matter. Stoned 
cherries, coloured with new-red, may, however, 
be used, provided they are boiled up again with 



PRESERVED FRUITS 23 

white sugar. Large wild roseberries are well 
adapted for mixtures. 

The various fruits are placed on suitable earthen- 
ware colanders, bottled, and covered with fresh 
sugar (25). 

Mixed fruits in arrack, cherry cordial, rum, etc., 
are prepared in the same way, the added sugar being 
mixed with 50 per cent, of the corresponding spirit. 
These preparations must not be heated after the 
bottles have been closed, but it will be sufficient to 
make the open bottles fairly hot, and then put the 
stoppers in. 

Pineapple. 

The usual way to bottle this fruit is to take one- 
third of hothouse pineapples and two-thirds of the 
West Indian fruit. The pineapples are quartered, 
and then cut in thin slices with a sharp knife. 
Each pound of slices requires 3 Ib. of refined sugar 
carefully boiled to 32 density, the fruit being 
added and boiled up once, after which it is taken 
out and cooled. Next day the sugar is poured 
away, concentrated to 30, strained, returned to 
the fruit, and the whole boiled up again. When 
cold, the fruit and sugar are bottled, and heated on 
the water-bath. 



Plums in Vinegar. 

The best way to prepare these for compote is to 
store the plums in sugar in gallon jars, as already 
described under plums. 



24 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

For use, the plains are bottled, aromatic vinegar 
is poured in, and the whole heated as usual. The 
aromatic vinegar is prepared by setting 10 gallons 
of wine vinegar in a warm place, with 1 Ib. of 
whole cinnamon, 1 Ib. of pimento, and | Ib. of 
cloves, for a month, and then pouring off and filter- 
ing the vinegar. 

Cherries in Vinegar. 

Prepared from preserved cherries in the same 
way as described for plums. 



CANNED FRUIT. 

Canned fruits are mostly blanched beforehand, 
though some kinds are packed raw. In the latter 
case, however, the fruit must be carefully washed 
to remove, not merely the dirt, but also any 
adherent fermentative organisms. For the same 
reason it is also essential to sterilise the raw fruit 
at a higher temperature, preferably in an autoclave. 

On the other hand, fruit that has been blanched 
in water can be sufficiently sterilised on an open 
water-bath. The strength of sugar solution to be 
added varies with the kind of fruit, particulars 
being given in each of the following cases. 

Gooseberries. 

The gooseberries are blanched, as already de- 
scribed, well cooled, placed in tins, and covered with 
22 sugar. The time required for sterilising 1J 
pint tins is 20 minutes on the water-bath. 

Strawberries, Uncooked. 

The berries are picked to remove the stalks and 
all damaged specimens, then washed, and drained 
on hair sieves. They are next packed in the tins 



26 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

and covered with dark, red-stained sugar (28). 
Sterilising is done in the autoclave, 1 minutes at 
220 F. being sufficient for 1J pint tins. 

Currants. 

The carefully picked berries are lightly washed, 
warmed over a fire (but not boiled) in a shallow 
pan with 28 sugar, and packed into tins when 
cooled. Sterilise 1-| pint tins on a water-bath for 
20 minutes. 

Dark Cherries with the Stones in. 

The picked cherries are heated in plenty of 
water until the stones are somewhat loosened, 
though the fruit should not burst. They are then 
quickly transferred to sieves, placed warm in the 
tins, and covered with 20 sugar. Sterilise on 
the water-bath as already mentioned. 

Light Cherries with the Stones in. 

The cherries must first be stained a uniform 
colour, the best dye being new-red. The cherries 
are heated slowly in the dissolved dye, and when 
the desired depth of colour is attained, are treated 
in the same way as dark cherries. 

Stoned Cherries. 

The cherries are stoned, then lightly blanched 
in a 10 solution of sugar, after which they are 



CANNED FRUIT 27 

laid in fresh sugar (density 20), and when 
cold are placed in the tins, juice and all. Sterilise 
as above. 

Mahaleb or Scented Cherries. 

When tinned with the stones in, these cherries are 
blanched in water, the same as other cherries, the 
stoned fruit being blanched in dilute sugar. The 
sugar is stained a handsome red, and the tinned 
fruit is sterilised for 20 minutes on the water- 
bath. 

Pears, Whole or in Halves. 

The peeled and cored pears are blanched with a 
little neutralin, well cooled, packed in tins, and 
covered with 28 sugar. Sterilise 1| pint tins 
for 20 minutes on the water-bath. 



Apricots, cut into Halves. 

Fine apricots of uniform ripeness are carefully 
wiped clean with cloths, cut into halves, and the 
stones removed. They are then laid closely 
together in the tins, without pressing, a few 
shelled kernels being placed on top, and covered 
with 30 sugar solution. 

Sterilisation is performed in the autoclave for 
8 minutes at 220 F., and the tins are cooled at 
once with plenty of running water to prevent 
bulging. The pouring in of the sugar must be 
quickly followed by the sterilising. 



28 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Apricots, Whole Fruit. 

Fruit of uniform ripeness is freed from stalks, 
pricked with needles, and placed in dishes, being 
then partly blanched with hot water containing 
neutralin. It is then placed in the tins, covered 
with 28 sugar, and sterilised in the autoclave for 
8 minutes at 220 F., or for 25 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Skinned Apricots. 

The fruit for this purpose should be semi-ripe, 
but already yellow, so that it can be skinned by 
hand, either the whole fruit or when cut into 
halves. It is then carefully blanched, cooled, and 
placed in the tins, where it is covered with 25 
sugar, and the tins are boiled for 2 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Whole fruit, in a suitable stage of ripeness, may 
also be skinned in the machine. 



Small Yellow (Mirabelle) Plums. 

If the fruit be yellow, but still hard, it is pre- 
ferably pricked with needles, and heated in water 
until the skin easily cracks and the fruit rises to 
the top. It is then placed in the tins and 
covered with 28 sugar. 

When riper fruit is taken it is packed raw, 
being first pricked, then washed thoroughly in cold 
water and dried with a cloth. The sugar in this 
case is of only 24 density, and sterilising is 



CANNED FRUIT 29 

performed in the autoclave for 10 minutes at 
230 F. When finished, cool with plenty of 
running water until the lids are tight. 

When the plums have been blanched before- 
hand, sterilising for 20 minutes on the water- 
bath will be sufficient. 



Greengages. 

The fruit is blanched as for bottling, but not 
quite so soft, then well watered, packed, covered 
with 25* sugar, and sterilised for 20 minutes on 
the water-bath. 



Peaches, Whole or Halved. 

The right sort to use is that in which the stones 
do not loosen. The fruit is blanched in water 
with a little neutralin, cooled, packed in the tins, 
and covered with 25 sugar, being then sterilised 
on the water-bath for 20 minutes. 



Late Plums, Unstoned. 

When the plums have been pricked in a 
machine, they are placed in a large quantity of 
water, in portions, quickly heated to boiling, and 
cooled at once before they burst. Next they are 
placed in the tins and covered with 24 sugar that 
has been stained a light red. Thinner sugar may 
also be used. 

The best method of sterilising is for 10 minutes 



30 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

at 230 F., followed by a thorough cooling. This 
treatment is essential to destroy the fermentative 
organisms and to prevent bulging tins. The fruit 
may also be tinned in an uncooked condition, but 
in such case must be brought direct from the tree 
to the works, and packed without delay. 

Preserved Rhubarb. 

All thick early sorts are suitable, the sticks 
being skinned, cut into lengths of about 2 inches, 
placed in earthenware dishes, strewn with plenty 
of sugar, and left overnight. Next day the whole 
is carefully heated, and the sticks placed in tins 
after cooling. The juice is concentrated to 20, a 
little finely pared lemon peel being added and 
poured over the sticks, the whole being sterilised 
on the water-bath. Twenty minutes is enough for 
li pint tins. 

Bilberries. 

The berries are carefully selected, washed, and 
put into the tins, where a 2830 sugar solution is 
poured over them. Sugar that has already been 
used may be employed. Sterilise in the autoclave 
for 10 minutes at 230 F. 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS. 

The sugar used for preparing these preserves 
must indicate 38 by the saccharometer, in the 
finished condition, this being, moreover, the highest 
density that can be accurately measured. 

Well-prepared syrup fruit should keep well 
for a year or more if stored in a cool place; but 
the preparation entails considerable experience in 
order to turn out a really perfect article. 

Of course the quality and ripeness of the 
raw fruit has an important influence on the 
result. 

Some kinds require to be sulphured in order to 
obtain a fine, pale colour, e.g. apricots, cherries, and 
pears in particular. 

Blanching requires considerable care, each fruit 
needing to be blanched quite soft, to enable the 
sugar to penetrate easily and the fruit to retain its 
form intact. The treatment with sugar is the 
same as for bottled fruit, the 28 syrup being 
concentrated the next day to 32, the fruit being 
heated up with it and then left to stand for 2 days. 
Then begins the treatment with strong syrup, the 
quantity used being about one-third that of the 
sugar juice. Almonds and pears rich in sugar 



32 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

need rather more, in order to prevent 
crystallisation. 

The sugar is concentrated to 35 by heating it 
over a coke fire, in small portions at a time, without 
any addition of sugar ; and the syrup and fruit are 
added and boiled up together. Next day it is 
concentrated to 38, more syrup being added, and 
the fruit heated up with it again. Whilst still 
hot, the mass is placed in dry jars or basins, 
covered with paper soaked in spirit, and tied up. 

In all works of any size a room will be set apart 
for sulphuring, situated near a chimney or air 
shaft, and fitted with tightly closing doors. A trap 
door is provided between the room and the 
chimney for the escape of the vapours when the 
sulphuring is over. 

The fruit to be sulphured is laid on wooden 
trays with lath bottoms, measuring about 40 by 20 
inches, and placed one above another so as to leave 
a space of about an inch between. Wire is quite 
unsuitable. The fruit spread out in this manner 
(apricots in single layers) is placed in the room 
overnight, and the sulphur ignited. Apricots are 
incised at the tip with a knife, or the stone 
loosened a little by inserting a wire at the seat of 
the stalk. About 2 Ib. of flowers of sulphur are 
placed in an iron vessel, mounted for safety on an 
iron or earthenware plate, the sulphur being ignited 
with a few lumps of glowing coke so as to set the 
whole mass on fire. 

Next morning the vapours are allowed to escape, 
and the fruit is taken out and laid in water : 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 33 

apricots in small vessels, cherries and pears in large 
tubs. 

A point to be remembered is that sulphured 
fruit must never be packed in tins. Consequently 
also all soft fruits, obtained by blanching, for 
marmalades, must be packed in glass vessels, since 
they would turn black and spoil in tins. 

Sulphured pears remain unaltered by paring, 
and cherries on stoning ; which is a great ad- 
vantage. Sulphured apricots never give rise to the 
objectionable brown specks in the sugar that are 
found in the case of unsulphured fruit, the colour 
remaining uniformly pale. Sulphured cherries take 
the red stain evenly, which never happens when 
sulphuring is omitted. New-red, however, is the 
only suitable dye, none of the others acting direct. 
Pears also should be coloured with this dye. 

The light red mahaleb cherries are also sulphured 
and boiled for preserving in this manner, sulphuring 
being the only way to make them retain their 
plump, rounded shape. 

Glazing Fruit. 

The preparation of shiny, dry fruit, entails 
considerable experience and particular care in 
boiling the various kinds of fruit. 

The sugar syrup must not be lower than 
36 density, and the fruit in all cases must 
be left in this syrup for a month at least. If the 
concentration of the syrup recedes during the 
process, it must be restored to the proper strength. 



34 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

For glazing, the fruit is first drained on a copper 
strainer, then boiled up again, in small quantities 
at a time, in a fresh 36 solution of sugar, 
the same sugar being used in each case. The fruit 
is taken out with large wire spoons, and placed to 
drain in wicker baskets. When enough has been 
prepared, glazing may be commenced. 

For this purpose a 32 solution of (prefer- 
ably refined) sugar is prepared, and about 2 J gallons 
of this are placed in the glazing pan, for treating 
11-12 Ib. of fruit. 

The sugar is boiled over a bright coke fire, the 
edges being washed clean, until a crust forms, 
2 tablespoons of syrup being added. When the 
sugar is of the proper strength, the fruit is added, 
and the whole allowed to boil up, the pan being 
then taken off the fire and left for several minutes. 

Owing to the strength of the sugar, only a small 
portion can be worked at a time, a portion of the 
fruit being collected on one side of the pan by 
means of a light, flat, perforated copper spoon, 
about 8 inches long and 6 inches broad, with a 
suitable handle, and the sugar worked with a small 
spattle, the fruit being then laid on a wire grating 
for the surplus sugar to drain into a vessel under- 
neath. This operation is repeated with fresh 
portions of fruit until the whole has been dealt 
with. 

It is impossible for the operator to work fast 
enough to treat the whole at once. The necessary 
skill can be acquired in a few days, and 2-3 girls 
are required for each pan, the fruit being taken by 






GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 35 

means of flexible wire tongs and laid so that each 
fruit is separate from the rest. 

The only way to obtain a shiny and durable 
glazing is by using strong sugar. 

When the fruit on the gratings is cold, it is 
transferred on to suitable trays, and can be packed 
after a short interval. 



Candied Fruit. 

To prepare candied fruit, a number of shallow 
candy pans are required and suitable wire gauze or 
perforated sheet metal, to be placed one at the 
bottom and the other on top. Large fruit is 
arranged in a single layer, but smaller fruit, like 
cherries, in two to three layers. 

When the fruit has drained it is washed in a 
fresh sugar solution (30) by the aid of heat, 
and laid on wooden trays or wire gratings in the 
warm drying-room. Next clay it is turned over, so 
that both sides can get dry. When properly dry, 
which condition will be reached after 2 days, the 
fruit is candied. 

A suitable quantity of sugar is dissolved in the 
requisite amount of water, raised to boiling, and 
then gradually diluted to 28, with frequent 
skimming, after which it is concentrated to 
34 34^, according as large or small crystals are 
desired. The finished candy is transferred to a 
suitable pan and set on one side. It is important 
that the finished sugar should be poured over the 
fruit 3 hours later, before it has cooled so -far that 



36 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

a solid crust is formed. Thus, if the candy is 
finished at 4 o'clock, it must be poured about 7. 
The candy pans are left overnight in the warm 
drying-room and emptied next morning. 

Blue Plums. 

This highly appreciated preserve can be easily 
made on a large scale, especially when a cheap 
supply of plums is available, any good sort being 
suitable. 

The fruit should be at such a stage of ripeness 
that, while the flesh is still firm, the skin has begun 
to wrinkle near the stalk. It is better to be over- 
ripe than the reverse. The stones are extracted 
by a wire instrument, inserted at the stalk end and 
pushing the stone out through the tip, the fruit 
being meanwhile held firmly in the left hand to 
prevent bursting. When the quantity is small the 
plums are laid in a flat pan, hot, previously used 
sugar (24) being poured in, and pounded sugar 
strewn over the top. The pans are left in the 
drying-room until the next day, the fruit parting 
with its juice and absorbing sugar. Next day boil 
over a fire, with frequent shaking, and skim. 
When cold proceed with concentration, by stages of 
4, without adding syrup, fruit syrup being generally 
used with this fruit. 

Large parcels are treated as follows : The 
stoned plums are placed in large tubs or pans, 
covered with a wooden grating, and weighted with 
a stone. Boiling fruit sugar (24) is then poured 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 37 

over, and the whole left to stand. Next day the 
fruit is transferred to small pans, the sugar juice 
being concentrated to 28 and poured hot over the 
fruit. After a few hours the fruit and sugar are 
boiled together and left to cool. On the third day 
the sugar is concentrated to 34, and on the fourth 
day to 38, the whole when cold being stored in 
large casks in a cool place. 

In the finishing process the plums are well 
drained, the small ones being used for stuffing, by 
the aid of a suitable piece of wood. The plums being 
laid on a suitable wire grating are dipped carefully 
five to six times in water that is just boiling, in 
order to wash off the adherent syrup. The residual 
drops of water are blown off by means of a bellows, 
and the grating is taken into the drying-room, 
which must not be hotter than 85 F. After 
2436 hours the plums will have acquired the 
desired bluish " bloom/' and are then ready for 
packing. If the temperature of the drying-room is 
higher the syrup sweats out of the plums, and the 
latter do not turn blue ; the defect, however, can 
be remedied by rewashing. 

Glazed Chestnuts. 

The preparation of this article entails great care 
and long experience to turn out a fine, light- 
coloured,* and tender fruit. The best chestnuts to 
use are the large Italian or French kinds, rather 
fiat than round. After removing the brown outer 
shell the chestnuts are laid on sulphuring trays 



38 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

and sulphured for 2 hours, after which they are 
placed until the next day in fresh water, which is 
renewed several times. 

Blanching is performed in small, shallow wicker 
baskets, made of peeled withes, and capable of 
holding 5-7 Ib. of chestnuts. These baskets are 
laid on a wooden grating in a large shallow pan, 
the intermediate spaces being weighted with stones. 
The grating, however, must be merely pegged, and 
not nailed, contact with iron spoiling the colour of 
the fruit. Moreover, all the vessels used should be 
of copper or enamel. 

Three measures of wheaten flour are stirred to a 
pap with 150 of water, and sufficient of this 
mixture is poured over the chestnuts to cover 
them. The water is gradually raised to the boil, or 
rather to 194 F., which temperature should not be 
exceeded, and kept thereat for 2 hours, with 
frequent skimming, and replacing the water lost by 
evaporation. The whole time of heating should be 
at least 3 hours, preferably longer ; but a little 
experience will soon teach what is the correct 
period. As soon as the chestnuts are found to be 
soft enough, the basket is taken out and placed in 
hot water, this being essential for skinning. The 
skinned nuts are placed in a shallow pan containing 
sugar solution (15) and vanilla. 

When a few pans are ready, the sugar is con- 
centrated, preferably on a large water-bath holding six 
to eight pans, and heated by steam. The water being 
kept on the boil, the operation will be completed in 
half a day, the loss by evaporation being replaced 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 39 

all the time by sugar solution. Next day this 
sugar, which has turned a dark colour, is poured 
off, and fresh 32 sugar, containing one- third of 
syrup, is added. On the third day the chestnuts 
are either placed in gallon storage jars and covered 
with 32 syrup, or else are bottled direct. How- 
ever, to avoid risk of breakage, it is preferable to 
defer the bottling until the chestnuts have stood 
for some time in syrup, and to preserve a stock for 
the following season, so as to begin with a good 
article. 

The glazing is performed in the same manner 
as with other fruits, but in smaller quantities at 
a time, vanilla being added to the glaze. 

Glazed Pineapple Slices. 

Since these should be of a fine pale yellow 
colour, the fruit must not be boiled much with the 
sugar. Tinned pineapple is" cut into slices, with 
a sharp, thin-bladed knife, on a suitable board, 
fitted with a J-inch guide strip on right and left, 
the slices being boiled 1^ hours with pure water 
in a bright copper pan. Meanwhile best refined 
sugar is dissolved to a 20 solution, in which, whilst 
still hot, the hot boiled slices are laid and covered 
up with paper. At the start a comparatively small 
amount of sugar is used so that the slices will not 
float, since in these circumstances they will absorb 
the sugar better. 

.Next day the slices are arranged in a circle, the 
sugar being concentrated to 24 and poured over 



40 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

them hot. The next time the concentration is 
increased to 28 with added sugar; then to 32, 
each time being poured hot over the fruit ; and 
finally to 36, with addition of a little syrup, the 
slices being carefully heated up with the sugar, and 
then turned into flat pans to cool before being put 
into the jars. The glazing is performed in the 
manner already described, except that in this case 
the slices are merely drained. Pineapple cubes, 
or " chunks," are treated in just the same way ; 
the commercial " sticks " are best for this purpose, 
being almost completely free from " eyes." 

Crystallised Strawberries. 

Firm-fleshed strawberries of medium size are 
boiled as described under strawberries, and allowed 
to drain on a sieve in the drying-room. The still 
moist fruit is then rolled in fine, red-stained crystal 
sugar, then laid singly on boards covered to a depth 
of ^ an inch with the same sugar, and put in the 
drying-room. Next day they are turned over, 
worked a little, and left to dry for another day, 
whereupon they are ready for packing. 

Mustarda. 

There are two classes of this preserve, one 
sweeter than the other. The former is prepared 
from sweetened fruit, the other from stewed fruit. 

The sweet kind will keep UD altered for a con- 
siderable time, even in open jars ; but the other 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 41 

must be sterilised on the water-bath, and is always 
sold in tins. 

The various fruits are packed as for mixed fruit, 
and the mixture is covered with a mustard sauce, 
prepared as follows: 48 J Ib. of brown mustard are 
ground three times, and stirred up with 9f gallons 
of white wine, 1 Ib. of salt, and \ Ib. of ground 
capsicum. This mixture is left to stand all night 
and put through the machine next day ; then mixed 
with 17| gallons of boiling hot 28 sugar, the whole 
being stirred and afterwards skimmed. This mixture 
will keep for a long time, but should be boiled up 
again before use. 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES. 

The preparation of genuine marmalades and juices 
alone is dealt with in this section, no mention being 
made of those fortified with gelatine, agar-agar, etc. 
Of course, as in all large works, the various fruit 
pulps are stored in jars or bottles, and only used 
when the marmalade is to be sent out. 

This method offers many advantages. In the 
first place the sugar is not worked up until the 
marmalade is to be sent out, thus saving a good 
deal of expense ; and furthermore, all kinds of pulp 
are ready in autumn for the preparation of the 
various mixtures required. 

It should also be mentioned that fruit pulp will 
keep best when poured boiling hot into glass jars 
that have been rinsed out with boiling water, the 
jars being filled to the top and closed at once. 
Sterilising in tins alters the colour, and cannot be 
practised for any berry fruit, the tin spoiling the 
colour. 

Lower grade fruit pulp, and also apricot pulp 
large quantities of which should be stocked may, 
however, be stored in tins holding up to J cwt., in 
the following manner : 

The tins, which are soldered top and bottom, 
42 






44 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

have a 2 -inch hole in the lid, and are stood in a 
vessel of boiling water. When the fruit pulp is 
boiling hot the tins are taken out in succession 
and filled up to the top, the lids being soldered on 
at once. This done, the tins are stood on their 
heads, so that the small amount of imprisoned 
air is compelled to rise through the boiling hot 
pulp, and is thus rendered innocuous. This 
method is perfectly reliable, and enables large 
quantities of pulp to be got ready for storage 
in a short time. 




FIG. 4. 

The pulp may be put through a hand mill, or 
through one of larger size, operated by power, 
similar to that illustrated in Fig. 3. 

At the present time it is the practice to use a 
larger quantity of sugar than formerly the average 
then being only two-thirds to three-fourths per lb. 
in order to obtain transparent marmalades of good 
keeping properties. The English practice in jam- 
making is to use equal weights of sugar and fruit, 
this developing the flavour of the fruit better ; and 
the fruit is not pulped so fine as on the Continent, 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 45 

being preferably torn so that the flesh is more 
apparent, and imparts a characteristic appearance. 
In the case of plums, peaches, apricots, etc., a few 
stones are left in the mass to improve the fineness 
of flavour. 

In the following description of the various 
marmalades it is assumed that the fruit is steamed 
in pans holding about f cwt. (Fig. 4), this en- 
abling the steaming to be reduced to about 15-20 
minutes an important point in the preparation of 
pale marmalades. 

Experience alone will teach when the fruit is 
done ; and in case of uncertainty a few samples 
should be taken and spread on a plate to cool. 
The finished marmalade should be cooled by stirring 
in shallow pans, so as to prevent scorching ; but it 
must be filled into the pots whilst still hot. 

Strawberry Marmalade. 

Strawberry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
sugar, 3 parts. 

Raspberry Marmalade. 

Easpberry pulp, 2 parts ; currant pulp, 1 part ; 
apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 4 parts. 

Currant Marmalade. 

Currant pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 
3 parts. 



46 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Scented Cherry Marmalade. 

Scented cherry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
currant pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 4 parts. 

Cherry Marmalade. 

Cherry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 
3 parts. 

Greengage Marmalade. 

Greengage pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
sugar, 3 parts. 

Late Plum Marmalade. 

Plum pulp, 3 parts ; sugar, 3 parts. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Peach pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 
3 parts. 

Roseberry Marmalade. 

Pioseberry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
sugar, 3 parts. 

Apricot Marmalade (Best). 

Apricot pulp, 3 parts; sugar, 3 parts. The 
sugar is boiled separately until it begins to ball, 
and then mixed with the pulp and boiled to a 
finish. 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 47 

Apricot Marmalade (Second Quality). 

Apricot pulp, 3 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar 
4 parts. 

Steeped Plums. 

One hundred parts of stoned, ripe late plums are 
mixed with fruit sugar drained from thickened sugar 
preserves, and boiled to proper consistency with a 
little whole cinnamon and a few cloves. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Apple pulp, 2 parts ; sugar, 1 part. 

English Orange Marmalade. 

Bitter oranges are used. The fruit is cut into 
halves, without injuring the core, thrown into 
boiling water, a few at a time, boiled for several 
minutes, and then quickly cooled, whereupon the 
flesh can be easily squeezed away from the, rind. 

The flesh is heated to boiling with a sufficient 
quantity of water and pulped in a mill, the rind 
being quartered and cut into thin slices in a special 
machine. The slices are blanched until soft, and 
laid aside in a sieve. Next, 30 parts of the pulp 
and 1 of the slices are weighed out and mixed ; 
and in the meantime 54 parts of refined sugar and 
6 of syrup are dissolved and heated till they ball, 
whereupon the pulp and rind are added and the 
whole boiled to a finish. 



48 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The marmalade should have a golden yellow 
colour and be perfectly clear, and is left in the 
natural condition. It is filled hot into the pots 
and fastened down when cold. 

Another kind can be made by adding a quantity 
of apple pulp equal to that of the orange rind 
taken. 

Tomato Marmalade. 

Six parts by weight of ripe fruit are thrown into 
hot water, taken out again quickly and cooled, the 
skins being then easily peeled off. The fruit is 
next cut into halves, and the seeds carefully 
extracted with a suitable instrument. Four parts 
of sugar are dissolved in a little water, mixed with 
the fruit, a piece of vanilla, and fresh lemon peel, 
and boiled with constant stirring till the mass sets 
to a jelly. The flavouring ingredients are then 
taken out. This preserve is held in great favour in 
Upper Italy. 

Apricot Jam. 

Good ripe fruit is stoned, and boiled with a little 
water, but not pulped. Equal parts of the fruit 
and water are boiled to the right consistency, and 
a few apricot kernels, previously scalded and skinned, 
are added to the mass. 



Gooseberry Jam. 

Nearly ripe, but still hard, gooseberries are cut 
off at the tips, boiled in a little water and put 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 49 

through the pulper. The pulp is mixed with its 
own weight of chopped berries and boiled with an 
equal amount of sugar. The jam is stained a light 
red. 

Red Currant Jam. 

The fruit is divided into two halves, one being 
boiled with a little water and pulped, the other 
washed and added. The mixture is boiled to a 
finish with its own weight of sugar, which has been 
boiled to balling point. 



Raspberry Jam. 

Fresh garden raspberries are divided into two 
halves, the one being pulped, and the other merely 
crushed. Two parts of this mixture are added to 
one of red currant pulp, and boiled to a finish with 
an equal weight of sugar. 



Strawberry Jam. 

In making this jam, one-third of pulped goose- 
berries is added, the agreeably acid flavour of the 
latter developing the taste of the strawberries. The 
latter are merely crushed, added to the gooseberry 
pulp, and the whole boiled with an equal weight 
of sugar. 

Cherry Jam. 

Sweet dark cherries are stoned in a special 
machine, no damage being done if the fruit is 
4 



50 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

torn more than is usually desirable in stoning. 
Meanwhile twice the quantity of whole cherries 
are boiled with a little water and put through 
a coarse pulper (Fig. 5), the sieve of which 
has a mesh just fine enough to keep back the 
stones. 

The pulp is then mixed with the stoned cherries, 
and boiled with a quantity of sugar equal to the 
weight of the fruit. 

Morella Cherry Jam. 

Both the early and late kinds are suitable ; and 
the method of preparation and quantity of sugar 
are the same as for cherry jam. Care must, how- 
ever, be taken to boil all the prepared fruit the 
same day, this being the only way to obtain a jam 
that will jelly properly and have a fine flavour. 

Bilberry Jam. 

The berries are picked over, washed clean, 

and crushed. The fruit is boiled with half its 

weight of water until the proper consistency is 
reached. 

Blackberry Jam. 

The blackberries are picked over, washed and 
crushed, after which they are mixed with one-third 
of gooseberry pulp, and boiled to a finish with an 
amount of sugar equal to the whole weight of 
fruit. 



52 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Strawberry and Gooseberry Jam. 

This mixture has an excellent flavour, and is 
prepared from equal parts of the two fruits. One 
half of the gooseberries are pulped, the other 
chopped, and the strawberries merely crushed. 
Equal parts of sugar and fruit are used. 

Plum Jam. 

Good ripe late plums are freed from stalks and 
pulped in the coarse pulper after being heated to 
boiling with a little water. One-third of the whole, 
however, is merely stoned, leaving the skins on. 
A few of the kernels are added enough to make 
three to four in each pound pot. These kernels impart 
the agreeable flavour of bitter almonds to the jam. 
The proportion of sugar is the same as in other 
jams, namely, equal to that of the fruit. 

Raspberry and Red Currant Jam. 

This tasty mixture is prepared from equal quantities 
of the two fruits, the currants being left whole and 
the raspberries crushed. To prevent an excess of 
pips half of each quantity is pulped and sifted. 
Equal parts of fruit and sugar are mixed, and 
boiled quickly to a finish after all is dissolved. 

Pineapple Jam. 

With this jam an addition of the finest apple 
pulp is essential to prevent it getting tough, and to 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 53 

increase the binding effect. Fresh pineapples are 
most suitable, but a portion may also be .replaced 
by the tinned fruit. 

The skin and eyes are removed and the fruit 
sliced, and afterwards passed through the coarse 
sieve of a meat-chopping machine. The resulting 
pulp is mixed with an equal weight of sugar, and 
boiled down sufficiently, with stirring. One part 
of best white apple pulp, from sourish apples, is 
taken to three of pineapple pulp. 

Meanwhile the apple pulp, which contains the 
juice, is boiled with two-thirds of its weight of 
sugar until it jellies, and this is stirred into the 
pineapple pulp, the whole being then put into 
the pots. 

Five to ten per cent, of syrup may be added if 
considered advisable, but the jam will keep good 
for years, without crystallising, provided the work 
has been carefully done and the sugar dissolved 
slowly, the latter being preferably boiled by itself 
beforehand. 



FRUIT JELLIES. 

The only kinds of jelly that will be described here 
are those made from the natural juices of fruit and 
sugar. 

The preparation of the fruit juices is an import- 
ant preliminary, and their storage in jars. Apples 
and quinces are cut into six to eight pieces, without 
peeling, and placed in a pan with just enough 
water to cover the fruit. They are gradually 
raised to the boil without stirring, and are left to 
draw, covered up, until the slices are sufficiently 
soft, whereupon they are transferred to a hair 
sieve to allow the juice to drain. The juice is 
placed in deep vessels overnight, and is next day 
carefully decanted from the sediment, heated to 
boiling and poured hot into glass jars, which are 
then covered up at once. 

Berries, such as currants, raspberries, strawberries, 
cranberries, and blackberries, are also boiled with a 
small quantity of water in bright copper pans, trans- 
ferred to sieves, and the juice sterilised as above. 

The residue of the fruit may be pulped in the 
machine and used for mixed marmalade or jam. 
An addition of good apple juice is advisable in 
all fruit jellies, but should be prepared from good 



FRUIT JELLIES 55 

apples with an acid flavour. To obtain a clear 
juice without filtering, the following method can be 
employed : - 

The juice, carefully freed from the sediment, is 
mixed with half its weight of best sugar, slowly 
heated to boiling, skimmed and filtered through 
a flannel bag, so as to keep back the particles 
of dirt present in the sugar. The filtered juice is 
quickly boiled up again, and as soon as a sample 
shows that the jellying stage is reached, is rapidly 
cooled with cold water, the steam being turned off 
and the juice skimmed. This operation is once 
or twice repeated, and as soon as a sample, placed 
in a glass, shows that the juice is clarified, boiling is 
continued to a finish, and the juice is put at once 
into the previously warmed glasses. The proper 
consistency is attained when the juice drops in 
patches from the upturned spoon, and w r hen these 
patches, placed in a glass with cold water, fall to 
the bottom unchanged, without dissolving. The 
proper degree will be learned with a little practice. 
Should the jelly be boiled beyond this stage it will 
scorch and then refuse to set at all. 

Apple Jelly. 

Apple juice, 2 parts; sugar,"! part; is usually 
left the natural colour, but may also be stained red. 

Quince Jelly. 

Quince juice, 2 parts ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1J parts. 



5 6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Currant Jelly. 

Currant juice, 2 parts ; apple juice, 1 part ; sugar, 
1| parts. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

Baspberry juice, 1 part ; currant juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Strawberry juice, 1 part ; currant juice, 1 part ; 
apple juice, 1 part; sugar, 1^ parts. The juice left 
over in making wild-strawberry compote is highly 
suitable. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Cranberry juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Blackberry juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Apricot Jelly. 

Apricot juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Peach Jelly. 

Peach juice, 1 part; apple juice, 1 part; sugar, 1 
part. The sweet juice formed when the fruit is kept 
in storage jars can be advantageously worked up into 
peach and apricot jelly ; but in such case only 



FRUIT JELLIES 57 

25 per cent, of sugar should be used, instead 
of 50 per cent., the juice already containing 
sugar. The added apple juice of course receives 
50 per cent, of sugar. 



Raspberry Juice. 

Fresh wild raspberries are mixed with 5 per 
cent, of sugar, and left to ferment in suitable 
vessels, tubs wider at the bottom than the top 
being the best. The contents are stirred several 
times a day. 

According to the temperature of the room, 
fermentation will be over in 68 days ; and the 
must has then to be pressed quickly to prevent the 
alcoholic fermentation from proceeding to acetic 
fermentation. 

The pressed juice must be heated to 1*75 F. in 
large copper pans, thus arresting fermentation, and 
the still hot juice filled into 10 gallon wickered 
flasks, closed by plugs of cotton wool steeped in 
salicylic acid. Stored in a cool place, the juice 
will keep unaltered for a long time, and clarifies 
of itself. For use it is decanted carefully from 
the sediment. 

When the crude juice is stored in larger quantities 
it is treated with 15 per cent, of spirit, and placed 
in perfectly clean casks, which are kept full to the 
bung. In this case, however, the juice loses its 
colour in time, which does not occur when kept 
in the flasks. 

To prepare raspberry syrup, 100 parts by weight 



58 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

of the crude juice are put into a suitable pan with 
180 parts of best sugar and slowly heated to 
boiling, with stirring, the steam being turned off 
as soon as the juice begins to froth up. As soon 
as the froth has subsided it is removed, the edges 
wiped round, and the juice heated to boiling again, 
and skimmed. 

The juice is next strained through flannel. It 
will measure 3031 on the saccharometer scale, 
and will keep for a long time. 

Strawberry Juice. 

The following method is adopted for obtaining 
an aromatic product : 

Small aromatic varieties, preferably mixed with one- 
third of wild strawberries are placed, with an equal 
weight of sugar, in suitable earthenware basins, and 
kept in a cool place, being repeatedly stirred. 

On the following day the whole mass is shaken 
out on to large cloths to enable the juice to drain 
away clear. This juice is then heated carefully to 
158 F., and poured, whilst hot, into larger or 
smaller glass jars, which are closed and sterilised 
for 20-30 minutes on the water-bath. The residual 
strawberries are used up in making cheap jams. 

Cherry Juice. 

Cherries for juice-making must first be passed 
through a fruit mill with adjustable wooden or 
stone rollers, in order to crush the whole of the 



FRUIT JELLIES 59 

fruit. It is also advisable to crush a portion of the 
stones as well. 

The resulting pulp is left 2436 hours in suitable 
tubs before pressing. After pressing, the juice is 
left for awhile, then drawn off, treated with 16 per 
cent, of spirit, and placed in clean casks, which are 
kept full to the bung. 

Lemon Syrup. 

Sound ripe lemons are pressed, and the juice 
strained on a hair sieve ; then placed overnight in 
deep glass vessels, carefully poured into 10 gallon 
glass jars next day, heated on the water-bath, and 
closed up at once. 

To prepare syrup, 66 Ib. of refined sugar are 
dissolved to a strong solution in water, mixed with 
10 gallons of lemon juice, and concentrated to 30. 
When the syrup has cooled down a little, some 
lemon spirit is added, this having been prepared 
by digesting finely pared lemon peel with fine spirit 
in a glass bottle for several days. 

Orange Syrup. 

The crude juice is prepared in the same manner 
as lemon juice. For making the syrup, 66 Ib. of 
refined sugar are taken to 20 gallons of orange 
juice and a suitable quantity of water, the whole 
being dissolved and treated with 1| pints of lemon 
spirit. After concentrating to 30, orange spirit 
(prepared from finely pared orange peel) is added. 



60 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Pineapple Juice. 

Hothouse pineapples are peeled, cut up fine, and 
heated to very near boiling in 32 sugar (3 Ib. to 1 
Ib. of pineapple). After a short time the resulting 
syrup which should measure 30 is strained 
through flannel and filled into bottles. 

The residual pineapple slices can be extracted 
for second-quality juice, or used up in making 
pineapple marmalade. 



FRUIT PULP FOR ICES. 

Only the best and freshest fruit should be used 
in making pulp for this purpose, and the heating 
process should be performed as quickly as possible. 

In the case of berried fruits, fresh, thoroughly 
ripe berries should be pulped, mixed with 10 per 
cent, of refined sugar, raised to boiling-point, and 
immediately poured into bottles which are hermet- 
ically sealed and sterilised like bottled fruit. The 
bottles should have been rinsed out with nearly 
boiling water just before use. 

With a little experience on the part of the 
operator the sterilising process may be omitted, 
but everything must be boiling hot, and the closed 
bottles must be stood on their heads so as to compel 
the small amount of imprisoned air to rise through 
the boiling mass and thus be rendered harmless. 

For stone-fruit pulp, the fruit is heated to boiling 
with a little water, then pulped in the machine and 
packed as above. 

For pineapple pulp the fresh fruit is necessary. 
The fruit is peeled, the eyes removed, and the rest 
cut into chunks, which are put through the coarse 
plate of a mincing machine, then pulped fine, mixed 
with 1 per cent, of sugar, and packed as above. 

61 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL. 

The citron tree is indigenous to Sicily, Corsica, 
and certain of the Grecian islands. 

Orange peel is made from the rind of the bitter 
orange, another kind being made from sweet oranges. 
The latter can be bought, ready separated from the 
flesh, in Trieste and Messina, whilst the latter ports, 
Genoa and Leghorn, are the chief centres of the 
citron trade. 

Both fruits are gathered in our autumn and 
winter seasons, citron peel being often ready for 
sending out in December, whilst orange rinds come 
on the market up to April. 

Citron peel is of two classes, according as it is 
separated from the flesh or not. The former kind 
is also known as table citron. 

The best, and usually dearest sort, comes from 
Corsica ; the Sicilian fruit is termed diamond citron ; 
and both these are used for preserving. 

To obtain a peel that is rich in sugar, tender and 
yet firm and transparent, it is necessary to follow 
the Italian practice of working with cold sugar, as 
described below. 

On opening the casks the brine is drawn off 
and replaced by fresh water, which is changed 

62 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 63 

several times. On the following day the fruit 
is placed in bright copper pans with plenty of 
water, and raised to boiling. After 2 hours' con- 
tinuous boiling the fruit is sufficiently blanched, 
the proper stage being reached when the core 
loosens easily on the fruit being placed in cold 
water. 

The fruit is then placed in cold water and 
the cores extracted by women or girls, pre- 
ferably by hand. The cleaned fruit is left in 
cold water till the next day to draw out all 
the salt. 

A cool room, preferably a cellar, is best for pre- 
serving ; and it should be close to the boiling-house 
so that the sugar solution can be sent down through 
a sheet metal pipe, thus economising time and 
material, 

The preserving room is fitted with strong wooden 
chests measuring 60 by 28 by 24 inches, lined with 
tinned sheet copper and fitted with a draw-off cock 
at the bottom. These chests are mounted on a 
suitable foundation. 

One corner of each chest is fitted with a perforated 
metal pipe in which a pump, like those used for 
petroleum barrels, can be placed. 

The citron fruit is laid on edge in the chests, but 
not packed too tightly ; then covered with a grating 
of lath weighted with clean stones, and a cold 10 
solution of sugar is poured in. Every day the weak 
sugar solution is pumped out and replaced by one 
5 stronger. 

The first sugar is usually allowed to run to 



64 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

waste, having extracted salt from the fruit and 
being poor in sugar. 

Of course the sugar solution removed by pumping 
is used over again ; but since a considerable surplus 
of sugar solution will accumulate in time it is 
advisible to regulate the work in such a manner 
that a fresh quantity of fruit is blanched every 
day, the weaker sugar solutions being used up for 
this purpose. 

As already mentioned, the sugar solution is 
run in cold, this being continued till the density 
reaches 35. Under this treatment a slight 
fermentation, revealed by the gradual ascent of 
bubbles of gas, begins when the density is about 
25. This fermentation is necessary to open 
the pores of the fruit and facilitate the penetra- 
tion of the sugar, this being the only way 
to obtain a product that will remain soft for 
any length of time. Should the fermentation 
be too powerful at 30, it is advisable to boil 
the fruit and sugar up together, return to the 
chest, and continue the treatment with hot 
sugar. The last two charges should contain 
one-third of syrup, so that the final sugar has the 
density 40. 

The fruit should remain in this sugar for at least 
6 weeks before it is glazed. 

For the glazing process the fruit is taken out of 
the sugar, boiled up with fresh 30 sugar, and 
placed overnight in suitable vessels. Next day it 
is laid on a grating and set in the drying-room 
for 2 days, the glazing being effected in the 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 65 

same manner as already described in the case of 
fruit. 

For table citron peel, the cored fruit is cooled, 
and peeled fairly thick by hand in cold water, and 
then treated as above. To obtain a brilliant white 
product it is advisable to sulphur the peeled fruit 
all night on wooden racks, all contact with iron 
being carefully avoided. 

The peel may also be cut up into pieces the size 
of orange peel, or may be preserved whole and sold 
to gingerbread makers. 

Orange peel is always made by the hot process 
in small vessels holding about f-1 cwt. 

The peel is blanched for 1 J 2 hours, then cooled 
and trimmed up to remove any residual flesh. 
This can be done before the peel is laid in the 
preserving vessel. 

The peel is arranged in circles, but not very 
tightly, so that the sugar can penetrate to all parts. 
The first sugar should have the density 1 5, the 
subsequent charges being 5 stronger every time. 
The fruit and sugar are finally boiled up together, 
and when cold are laid in the storage boxes 
in rings. Glazing is performed in the same 
manner as for citron, after the peel has been 
dried in the drying-room. 

Orange Peel. 

This peel is mostly to be bought with the flesh 
already removed, but can also be obtained with the 
flesh in, the oranges being merely halved. In this 
5 



66 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

condition about one-third will have to be allowed 
for waste. 

The fruit is drained, then rinsed with plenty of 
water to remove impurities and fibres, and blanched 
for 2 2J hours in a bright copper pan. When 
cooled, it is placed in wooden tubs holding about 
2 cwt. each, and is covered with hot 15 sugar and 
weighted down. Next day the sugar is run off and 
not used again, its place being taken by a hot 
20 solution, and the third day by one of 30 
strength. 

After another 24 hours the sugar drawn off is 
mixed with enough sugar to increase the strength 
to 35, this being added to the peel and well boiled 
up, so that the whole has a clear appearance. 

The cooled peel is drained, put into a storage 
cask, and covered with the sugar, which has mean- 
while been concentrated to 38. 

For glazing, the drained peel is boiled in 36 
sugar and placed in suitable wicker baskets, being 
then glazed as already described for fruit. 

Candying is performed in the same manner 
as for candied fruit, i.e. as warm as possible, a 
certain amount of experience being necessary in 
order to obtain a product of good appearance 
and keeping properties. 

Neutralin. 

Eleven Ib. of sodium sulphite are dissolved in 
3-J gallons of hot water, and the solution is stored 
in glass bottles, 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 67 

This solution is the best adjunct to the blanch- 
ing water in the case of any fruit that is 
desired to remain pale in colour. The quantity 
used is about one-tenth per cent, of the water 
employed. 



PART II. 
PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 

General Remarks. 

IN addition to the provision of the raw materials, 
the water question plays an important part. 

As a rule, any tap or other drinking water fit 
for that purpose, will also be suitable for preserving 
vegetables, provided it be free from any large 
quantity of iron and entirely free from ammonia. 
Traces of the latter are not prohibitory, and in all 
cases a trial should be made to see whether the 
water will really do, since the author has often 
found practice superior to theory in this connection. 

Owing to the large consumption of water at 
intervals during the vegetable season, it is advisable 
to provide a large tank, even where water is laid on, 
in order to have a sufficient supply. This tank 
may be of strong timber, lined with thin, tinned 
copper, and is mounted either in the boiling-house 
or near the cooler. The best situation is in the 
roof, where it is supported on iron girders let into 
the walls, or it may be placed in a room over the 
boiling-house. 

This tank, which is filled from the main, is 
fitted with a 1 1 inch draw-off pipe and tap leading 



72 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

to the cooler, so that plenty of water can be 
obtained at any time without delay. 

The blanched vegetables must in all cases be 
cooled with a large volume of water, renewed 
several times, in order to preserve the flavour. 
Einsing and draining also remove the surplus copper 
when the vegetables have been coloured green. 

Special attention should also be bestowed on the 
cooling device. Formerly it was the custom to 
use zinc-lined wooden tanks, the cage containing 
the boiled vegetables being lowered into the tanks, 
and water admitted from below, so that the warm, 
dirty water ran off at the top. 

New coolers of special type have recently been 
introduced into French practice, the cooling water 
running in at one side and out at the other ; and 
this plan has been found to answer. The cooler, 
mounted on six strong iron feet, consists of a zinc- 
lined box, somewhat lower on the side at which the 
water enters than on the other, an overflow being 
provided on the latter so that the level of the 
water coincides exactly with the upper edge of the 
other side of the box. The appliance should be 
about 10 feet long by 3 feet wide, and placed in 
such a position that the waste water can run away 
easily into the drain. The blanched vegetables are 
placed in loose, inner boxes of tinned iron with 
perforated bottoms, the holes, however, being small 
enough to prevent the escape of even the smallest 
peas. Each cooler of the foregoing dimensions will 
take six loose boxes 3 feet long, 1 6 inches wide, and 
3^ inches deep, provided with strong sheet -iron 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 73 

feet (six in number) at the corners and in the middle, 
so that the loose boxes are in contact with the 
cooling water on all sides. 

The cooling water entering on one side of the 
cooler comes in contact with the vegetables on its 
way to the overflow, and carries away all impurities. 
Owing to the way in which the vegetables to be 
cooled are spread out, any skins, threads, particles 
of wood, etc., are easily removed. 

In the corner of the cooler at the overflow is a 
draw-off tap, to enable the cooler to be cleaned out 
conveniently after use. 

The cooler should be mounted so that the head 
(feed) end is against the wall, so as to leave room 
for working on both sides. 

The question of colouring vegetables has been 
dealt with in various ways in the legislative 
enactments of different countries. The author will 
describe the method of colouring practised in 
France. Where this method is not allowed by 
law, colouring must either be omitted, or else 
performed with chlorophyll a troublesome and 
unreliable process. 

The filled tins must be cooled down by placing 
them on a stone floor in a suitable room. Here 
they are left all night, and are cleaned up next 
morning before being transferred to store. All 
tins whose lids have not become concave or are 
still springy must be put aside as imperfect. The 
use of water for cooling is wrong, apart from 
the fact that it facilitates rusting at the lapped 
edges. 



74 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The only exception is in the case of asparagus, 
water being used for cooling on the pretext that 
the colour stands better. The author, however, 
after trying both, found no appreciable difference 
between them. 

The three chief factors in the preparation of 
preserved vegetables are : large enough plant, 
suitable raw materials, and scrupulous cleanliness 
in working. 

It must also not be forgotten that the tins 
play a very important part, and should be ob- 
tained from a reputable maker. In very large 
preserving works it will be better to make the 
tins on the premises. 

Peas, beans, and cabbage, are blanched in per- 
forated copper cages, fitting into the boiling pans 
so that the handles project at the top and the 
cages easily lifted out. 

Carrots, cauliflower, kohlrabi, and other light 
coloured vegetables, should be blanched in tinned 
iron cages ; and the boiling pans should be 
tinned inside. 

Asparagus requires special loose cages of per- 
forated tinplate, of circular shape, the same 
depth as the length of the prepared asparagus, 
and covered with a lid. These trays are placed 
on a tinned iron grid, fitted at the sides with 
movable hooks so that the grid can be set higher 
or deeper in the water in blanching. 

The asparagus cages are first set at such a depth 
in the water that only the lower ends of the 
sticks are wetted ; and only when the operation 







a 



to 

6 



76 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

is drawing near a close are the cages lowered 
so as to submerge the top part of the sticks 
and the heads. In this way a decidedly superior 
product is obtained. 

All the filling liquor should be boiled with the 
necessary adjuncts in a morning, and turned into 
large clean vessels for any impurities to settle 
down. If no other course is open, the filling 
liquor is used without boiling, experience show- 
ing that it has no influence on the preserve. 
However, the former method is the sole means 
of obtaining a clear liquor. 

Greened vegetables should not be exposed to 
direct sunlight, or the colour will be injured ; and 
such vegetables should be worked up as quickly 
as possible. 

In storing the filled tins, care should be taken 
to keep the lids underneath, i.e. the tins are 
stood on their heads in the case of asparagus, 
because it is necessary that the heads of the 
asparagus should be upright. 

In sterilising the tins the autoclave (Fig. 7) 
is filled nearly one- third full of water, the cage con- 
taining the tins is introduced, and a little steam is 
admitted. The heating of the tins should proceed 
slowly, so that by the time the water is boiling, 
the contents of the tins will have attained the 
same temperature. Until this point is reached 
the air tap on the lid is left open to allow all 
the cold air to escape. The tap being then 
closed, the pointer on the pressure gauge will 
move over the dial till the desired degree is 




FIG. 7. Autoclave. 

77 



78 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

attained, whereupon the valve is adjusted to 
maintain the pressure at that level; and when 
the proper time has elapsed, the steam is shut 
off, the valves opened, and the cage taken out. 

When the above precautions are followed, there 
is no need for the fluctuations of temperature, so 
often read about in autoclaves. 



Asparagus. 

The fresh asparagus is sorted out according to 
quality, laid in fresh water, and after being peeled, 
is packed tightly in the blanching cage and boiled 
as described in pure water without any salt. A 
few loose stalks in the pan will show the boiler 
when the proper stage of boiling has been reached, 
i.e. when the stalks can be easily bent between 
the thumb and forefinger. The cage is then 
placed in plenty of running water (cold) until 
properly cooled, whereupon the stalks are taken 
out and packed in the tins. 

For this purpose a sufficient number of selected 
stalks are grasped in the left hand, the right hand 
holding the tin, and are inserted into the tin 
head first, any additional stalks required to fill 
the tin being put in separately. 

The filling liquor consists of boiled 2 per cent, 
salt water. Asparagus of the most delicate quality 
is preferably sterilised in an open water-bath, 
the small tins being treated for 55 minutes, 
medium size ones 120 minutes, and the largest 
150 minutes. 



8o THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Less delicate sorts, and such as have been kept 
for a time must, however, be sterilised in the 
autoclave for 15 minutes, the two smaller sizes at 
235 F., and the largest at 240 F. 

In the cooling process the tins are stood on 
their heads. 

Peas. 

The peas having been shelled in the machine 
(Figs. 8 and 9) are placed in a sorting machine, 
which is run at a low speed in order to ensure 
uniform classification. 

The first boiling of the finer sorts takes 4-5 
minutes, the larger sizes a little longer. The 
freshness and quality of the peas must always 
be taken into consideration, so that no definite 
rule can be laid down. The best method of 
boiling is to take about 45 Ib. at a time, 
these being placed in a suitable copper cage. 
The pan is charged with about 13 gallons of 
water, and as soon as this ' is boiling, an ounce 
of copper sulphate is added and the cage intro- 
duced. Boiling is continued briskly until finished, 
the scum being stirred and removed with a suitable 
wooden spoon. The peas are taken out and cooled 
for packing. 

The filling liquor consists of water containing 
2 per cent, of salt and an equal amount of 
sugar. 

To carry on the filling process quickly and 
uniformly the peas are turned into a tinned 
iron box of suitable size, fitted with handles 




a 

bo 



82 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

on both sides. The filling liquor is poured into 
this box, and the tins are filled by dipping 
them into the mass and stroking the surplus 
peas off with the hand. The method is easy, its 
advantages being apparent to a beginner in the 
first few minutes. 




FIG. 10. Truck for conveying tins. 

The tins are placed on trays, fitted on three 
sides with a border 3 inches deep but open on the 
fourth. Two holes for the hands are cut out 
on the right and left. Each tray should 
accommodate twenty li- pint tins or thirty- 
five f pint tins. 



84 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The trays are placed on a truck (Fig. 10), 
and taken to the closing machine (Fig. 11), 
which may be of the single- or double-lever type, 
either being efficient. 

From this machine the closed tins are placed 
direct in the cages, which are also placed on 
trucks (Fig. 12) to facilitate conveyance to the 
autoclave. 

The smallest tins must be sterilised for 15 
minutes at 230 F., the 1|- pint tins for 20 




FIG. 12. Truck for conveying cages. 

minutes at 235 F., and the 3 pint tins for 
25 minutes at the last-named temperature. 

To prevent the larger kinds of peas from jelly- 
ing, it is advisable to add one-tenth per cent, of 
sodium carbonate to the filling liquor. 

In colouring peas with chlorophyll, very soft 
water or rain water is used, and all the vessels 
employed must be tinned or enamelled. For 
every 45 Ib. of peas, 5^ gallons of water are 
heated to 195 F., 14 oz. of the colouring matter 
being added and the peas poured in. The tempera- 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 85 

ture is then raised to boiling-point, the peas being 
stirred with a wooden ladle, and the colouring 
matter is allowed to react for 12 to 15 minutes, 
without actual boiling. After cooling and filling, 
the peas are sterilised in the usual way. 

Beans. 

The most suitable kinds of young, uncut beans, 
are the Haricot flageolet noir and Merveille de 
Paris of Vilmorin Andrieux & Co., Paris. These 
are broken off, top and bottom, by hand (without a 
knife), since at that stage of ripeness they are not 
stringy, and are sorted into two sizes, any very 
coarse specimens being laid on one side. The next 
stage is blanching in copper cages, as described for 
peas, except that only three-fourths of the amount 
of copper sulphate is taken. When cold, the beans 
are turned into tinplate boxes and filled into J Ib. 
and 1 Ib. tins. The packer keeps a quantity of 
beans of uniform size ready to hand, to form a top 
layer and improve the appearance of the goods 
when the tins are opened. The filling liquor is 
water containing 2 per cent, of salt and boiled 
with a little bean foliage. 

The \ Ib. tins should be sterilised for 1 minutes 
at 230 F., the 1 Ib. tins for 12 minutes at the 
same temperature, and 2 Ib. tins for 16 minutes 
at 235 F. 

Flageolet Beans. 

The best kind is Vilmorin Andrieux & Go's. 
Haricot flageolet Chevrieux, which is distinguished 



86 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

by its beautiful pale green colour, and possesses 
all the properties that can be expected from a 
preserved flageolet bean. 

The beans can be shelled and sorted in the 
machine, but extra screens are required for this 
purpose. The beans are coloured in the same . 
proportion as peas, but the operation must be 
started with cold water, and the temperature 
slowly raised to boiling. The smaller kinds are 
blanched for 7-8 minutes, the larger ones for 8-10 
minutes. 

The tins are filled only about four-fifths full, and 
plenty of liquor is added, the beans swelling up 
during sterilisation. 

The filling liquor contains 2f per cent, of salt 
and a little soda (at the rate of about 1| oz. per 
10 gallons). 

First quality goods should be sterilised at 230 K, 
the half tins for 20 minutes, and the whole tins 
for 2 5 minutes ; for seconds the temperature is 
235 F. 

Sliced Beans. 

These are sliced in the machine (Fig. 13) and 
treated as already described. It is advisable to 
weigh the quantities put into the tins, in order to 
ensure uniform packing. 

French Beans. 

Young, tender beans are left whole, but larger 
sizes are cut into two to three pieces. Blanching 




bJO 
fl 



87 



88 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

and sterilising are performed in the same way as for 
other beans. 

Carrots. 

Freshly pulled carrots are trimmed off, top and 
bottom, and cleaned in a machine (Fig. 14), i.e. 
the thin skin is removed, this being best effected 
while the carrots are still fresh and have been 
scalded in soda and water. The roots are separated 




FIG. 14. Carrot-cleaning machine. 

into two or three grades before blanching, this last 
operation being performed in tinned pans until 
the carrots are soft right through. 

The same filling liquor is used as for peas ; and 
the best quality carrots are sterilised for 20 
minutes, the small tins at 230 F., and the large 
ones at 235 F., the second quality being treated 
for 25 minutes at these temperatures. 

A mixture of peas and carrots, packed in 
alternate layers in the tins, is highly appreciated. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 89 

Spinach. 

Spinach may be left in the natural state, or 
coloured like peas. After boiling and cooling, 
it is chopped fine in a machine, and then mixed 
with salt and meat broth (or water) for packing 
into the tins. A previous heating to boiling is 
advantageous, as is also hot filling. Sterilising 
is performed at 245 R, half tins for 20 
minutes, whole tins for 25 minutes, and double- 
size tins for an hour. 



Artichokes. 

A distinction is drawn between whole artichokes 
and artichoke crowns. For the first-named, the 
small, young artichokes are boiled for about 10 
minutes in plenty of water, then cooled and 
packed. Weak salt and water is used as filling 
liquor. The sterilising process is the same as for 
beans. 

Artichoke crowns require greater care in pre- 
paration. The peeling of the crowns is best 
performed in a special machine, such as that made 
by Navarre, of Paris. 

When working in small quantities, without a 
machine, the leaves are removed and the inner 
crown scraped out with a suitable knife, peeled 
nice and round from the outside, and placed at 
once in hot water containing neutralin. The 
crowns are then blanched, in small quantities at 
a time, in the same careful manner as asparagus, 



go THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

i.e. in tinplate cages, cooled, and packed in 
asparagus tins. The larger crowns are put into 
large tins, the smaller into small ones. The 
usual method of packing is in deep quarter tins 
(the same shape as for mushrooms), and in the 
small and medium size asparagus tins, no larger 
sizes being used. 

The filling liquor consists of 11 gallons of water, 
2^ Ib. of salt, and If oz. of citric acid crystals. 

Artichoke crowns are sterilised on the water- 
bath, the small tins being heated for 50 minutes 
after the boiling-point has been reached, and the 
large tins for 75 minutes. 

All contact of the crowns with iron must be 
avoided ; and the greatest cleanliness must be 
observed throughout. 

Tomatoes. 

Whole tomatoes are preserved in asparagus tins, 
undamaged fruit being selected in sizes suitable 
for the tins. 

The tomatoes are wiped clean with a cloth, put 
into the tins without pressure, and covered with 
weak brine. The filled tins are heated slowly on 
the water-bath, the smaller sizes for 5 minutes 
(reckoned from boiling-point) and the larger for 
10 minutes. 

The tins are left to cool down without touching 
them, or the fruit will not remain whole ; and for 
the same reason great care is necessary in storing 
them. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 91 

Tomato purfa is an article that can be made in 
large quantities, and enjoys ever increasing popu- 
larity. To be successful it must be prepared from 
fully ripe fruit ; and it is owing to the suitability 
of southern climates for tomato cultivation that 
the best fruit is obtained from Italy, France, 
Hungary, and warm countries generally. The fruit 
is first crushed in a mill, between stone rollers, 
the stalks having of course been taken off before- 
hand. The resulting pulp is placed in large tinned 
copper pans and heated to boiling, and then 
strained through a machine, being afterwards 
returned to the same pans and heated, with 
stirring, until three-fifths of the total weight has 
evaporated, 100 parts of tomatoes furnishing 40 of 
finished pulp. 

This pulp, which, if desired, can be stained with 
tomato-red, is then filled hot into tins or glass 
bottles, which are closed and sterilised on the 
water-bath like fruit compote. If intended for 
storage in bulk, the pulp is filled hot into J cwt. 
tins previously rinsed out with boiling water. The 
filled tins are closed at once, turned upside down, 
and left to cool. 

These tins are fitted with lapped, or preferably 
soldered, ends, a 2 -inch hole being left in the upper 
end for the introduction of the boiling pulp, and 
then covered with a small lid which is soldered 
down. 

The pulp may also be stored in glass carboys 
holding 810 gallons, these vessels being 
thoroughly cleansed and kept ready filled with 



92 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

hot water. When the pulp is ready, it is turned 
into a suitable pan to cool down a little, and is 
then filled into the just emptied hot glass vessels. 
The latter are stoppered with plugs of cotton 
wool, previously soaked in salicylic acid, and are 
then put into store. 

Mixed Vegetables (Macedoine). 

Fifty Ib. of large carrots, cut in long slices, 
20 Ib. of young beans, sliced, and 50 cabbage 
turnips (kohlrabi), also cut. A portion of the 
carrots and kohlrabi may be shaped in the press. 
These having been blanched are put into a large 
vessel with 3J gallons of No. III. peas and the 
same quantity of flageolet beans II. (both washed 
with warm water and weak brine), then filled into 
tins and sterilised as in the case of beans. 



Tinned Julienne. 

Forty-four Ib. of large carrots, 22 Ib. of white 
cabbage, 5 heads of celery, 2| Ib. of leeks, 6| Ib. 
of beans, 1 Ib. of parsnips, 1 onions, and an equal 
number of cabbage turnips. 

These are all shredded, boiled separately, and 
finally mixed with 4J gallons of No. II. peas 
(washed) and packed. Sterilising and filling liquor 
the same as above. 

Inferior qualities can, of course, be prepared by 
omitting some of the ingredients ; or better qualities 
by the addition of morels, etc. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 93 

Leipzig All-Sorts. 

This is a mixture of peas, asparagus, cauliflower, 
carrots, and morels, several grades being prepared 
according to the quality of the peas. The usual 
proportions are : peas, 6 per cent. ; carrots, 2 6 per 
cent. ; asparagus, 1 5 per cent. ; and morels, 5 per cent. 
The latter if unobtainable fresh may be used in the 
dried state, being then softened, washed repeatedly, 
and blanched the same as if fresh. Fresh carrots 
and peas are generally used, with tinned asparagus. 

Celery Chunks. 

Small and medium size heads are dismembered, 
thoroughly cleaned with water and a brush, then 
blanched in water for 10 minutes, peeled and cut 
into chunks. The latter are left to bleach for 
several hours in water containing 1 per cent, of 
citric acid, taken out and packed in tins. The 
filling liquor consists of weak brine, also containing 
a little citric acid. The l- pint tins are sterilised 
for 25 to 30 minutes at 230 F. 

Mushrooms. 

The mushrooms are obtained from France in 
casks during the winter months, or rather from 
September to March. On arrival, the casks are 
opened and the contents washed for several hours 
in plenty of running water. 

Neutralin is added in blanching, the mushrooms 



94 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

being boiled for about 20 minutes, with frequent 
skimming, and cooled in fresh water. They are 
next sorted into three sizes, the smallest being put 
into the smallest tins, and so on. A 1J pint tin 
is reckoned to hold about 1 lb., and the smaller sizes 
in exact proportion, all being carefully weighed. 

The filling liquor is prepared in advance, 22 
gallons of water being boiled and treated to an 
addition of 4J lb. of salt, 3|- oz. of citric acid 
crystals. The 1 J pint and f pint tins are sterilised 
for 50 minutes at 235 F., and the smaller sizes for 
45 minutes at 230 F. 

When fresh mushrooms are supplied they must 
be cleaned, trimmed off at the bottom, and freed 
from the brown skin by means of caustic soda. 

Edible Boletus. 

These fungi, which are often used in place of 
mushrooms, must first be cleaned up by removing 
the lamellae under the pileus, then skinned and cut 
up into suitable slices. The sound stalks are also 
used. 

In other respects the treatment is exactly the 
same as for mushrooms. 



Morels, Orange Agaric (Lactarium), 
Chanterelles, etc. 

These are cleaned up, washed, and well blanched 
in plenty of water, the scum being carefully 
removed. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 95 

After cooling, they are packed in tins, covered 
with brine the same as other vegetables, and 
sterilised as above. 



Pickled Mushrooms. 

The mushrooms are prepared as already de- 
scribed, packed with good wine vinegar, and 
sterilised, the 1|- pint tins taking 30 minutes. 

Truffles. 

Fresh French or Italian truffles are sorted into 
two qualities by cutting a small piece out of each 
truffle with a sharp knife, the truffles with dark 
flesh being classed as prime, the paler kinds as 
seconds. They are then scrubbed in warm water, 
preferably by hand, and carefully blanched for of 
an hour with white wine in a tinned or enamelled 
pan, f of a pint of wine being taken to a pound of 
truffles. 

The next step is to spread them out on a clean 
metal tray to cool, after which they are weighed 
into the tins. The half tins are reckoned to hold 
7 oz., and the smaller sizes in exact proportion. 
Sterilising takes 3040 minutes at 230 F., ac- 
cording to size. The filling liquor consists of the 
wine used for blanching, supplemented by as much 
fresh wine as is required. 

If necessary, the truffles may also be skinned 
with a sharp knife, the skins being also preserved 
to form a spice for patties, truffled sausage, etc. 



g6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Pickled Gherkins (Cornichons). 

The raw material is an important factor, and 
should always be obtained from a reliable firm, 
such as Vilmorin Andrieux & Co., 4 Quai de la 
Megisserie, Paris. 

The stalks are cut off and the gherkins sorted 
into three sizes. They are then carefully washed 
and packed into suitable clean barrels. Dill may 
be used as spice, but nothing else. 

A pickle is poured over them, consisting of 12 
per cent, brine containing 25 per cent, of good wine 
vinegar ; and the barrels are set out in the sun, 
in a yard or other warm place, with the bung-holes 
open, so as to quickly start a slight fermentation. 
When this has run its course, the casks are cleaned 
up, filled to the top with the same liquor if necessary, 
and bunged down. 

For use, the gherkins are taken out of the barrels, 
washed, and packed with fresh wine vinegar spiced 
with tarragon. When it is desired to keep these 
small gherkins stored in the barrels for a long period, 
the fermented pickle should be run off and replaced 
by fresh 12 per cent, brine. 

Salted Gherkins. 

The proper selection of the raw material is also 
important in this case, and recent experience has 
shown the advisability of pricking the gherkins in 
a machine at the outset. 

The gherkins are washed clean, wiped dry with 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 97 

a clean cloth, and placed in well-cleaned wine casks 
of hard wood. A layer of vine and morella cherry 
leaves and dill flowers is placed at the bottom, 
another being used to cover the gherkins, and a 
third one intermediate between the others. The 
filled barrels are headed, a 5 per cent, brine being 
poured in through the bung-hole, and the barrels, 
loosely bunged, are set in a warm place or in the 
sun until fermentation is terminated. They are 
then cleaned up, any deficiency of brine being made 
good, and the bungs driven home, the barrels being 
placed in the cellar, where they are rolled several 
times before being placed in their final position. 

Gherkins in Mustard. 

Large, ripe, firm-fleshed gherkins are skinned, cut 
in halves, the core removed,' and then cut into long 
strips. These are placed in tubs and well-sprinkled 
with salt, so as to form sufficient brine, in which 
the gherkins are left for several days. 

The gherkins are then washed, packed in barrels 
with yellow mustard seed, a few laurel leaves and 
white peppercorns, small onions, sliced horse radish 
and shredded ginger, sufficient boiling wine vinegar 
being poured in to cover the whole. After a few 
days the vinegar is drawn off, boiled up, and re- 
turned to the barrels, the contents of which are 
then heavily weighted. The vinegar, however, must 
not be allowed to fall below 4 per cent., or it will 
have to be supplemented. In 34 weeks the 
gherkins should be clear and translucent. 
7 



98 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Mixed Pickles. 

These are a mixture of young, tender vegetables, 
preserved separately, each at its proper season, and 
stored (preferably in large glass jars) for mixing 
later on. 

Small gherkins, young corn cobs, pickling onions, 
green and red capsicums, cauliflower, young beans, 
French beans, and French carrots, form the chief 
ingredients of the mixture, large capers and salted 
olives being also used by some makers. 

All the vegetables are lightly blanched and left 
to stand for several days in strong brine in order 
to ensure their keeping. They are then put in 
jars with good vinegar, warmed up in the water- 
bath, and closed up. The vegetables may, however, 
be stored separately in brine in the case of very 
large quantities. 

For packing in bottles or other receptacles, good 
4 per cent, wine vinegar is used, this being spiced 
with an extract prepared in the following manner : 
To 2 - gallons of vinegar add 1 8 oz. of black pepper, 
9 oz. of ginger, 9 oz. of salt, 5 oz. of pimento or 
English spice, 3 oz. of white pepper, a few laurel 
leaves, and a little tarragon, allowing the mixture 
to draw for 14 days in the warm, and then filtering. 
In all cases it is important to carefully heat the 
filled bottles on the water-bath before closing. 

Piccalilli. 

The mixed pickles are packed with the following 
preparation instead of vinegar: 2i- Ib. of best 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 99 

English mustard powder are stirred up with a pint 
of best olive oil, and to this is added 2 Ib. of 
castor sugar, J Ib. of salt, and 3-4 pints of good 
vinegar, with J pint of curry vinegar. 

This latter is prepared from 3J oz. of turmeric, 
4 oz. of coriander, 1 oz. of black pepper, 1 oz. of 
ginger, \ oz. of cardamoms, 1 oz. of carraway seeds, 
and J oz. of cayenne pepper (all powdered), with 
2 gallons of wine vinegar. 

When all has been thoroughly mixed together 
the sauce is strained through a hair sieve. 



PART III. 

PRESERVED MEATS. 



PRESERVED MEATS. 

IN this section we shall deal, not with the 
manufacture of preserved meats on a large scale, 
but with the preparation of potted meats for 
tourists, and similar articles which can be profitably 
made in small works, the season for them falling at 
a slack time of the year. 

An ordinary fireplace, preferably fitted with a 
hot hearth, will be quite sufficient, with a few large 
and small iron pans, a mincing machine, and a few 
perforated cages. 

The recipes given are easy to carry out, but 
three main rules must be observed : best meat, 
best adjuncts, and scrupulous cleanliness. 

The tins used should be those that can be 
opened easily with a key supplied for the purpose, 
the older form of tins being more difficult to sell 
nowadays. 

The meat, whether boiled or roast, should be 
well cooked so that it shows no redness when cut 
through. Eoast meat should be w T ell browned, so 
as to have the characteristic aroma. Any vege- 
tables used as garnish must be only slightly 
blanched. 

The bones, sinews, and fat must be made into 



104 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

strong stock for the preparation of the sauces or 
gravies. 

The meat is weighed into the tins in all cases, 
a quarter tin, weighing nearly 10 oz. gross, always 
containing at least J Ib. of meat, except when 
garnished, in which case the meat will be about 
^ oz. less. 

Best lard, preferably home-made, is used as fat, 
and any butter prescribed should be best fresh. 
Quarter tins should be sterilised for 50 minutes at 
230 F., except in the case of veal or sausage, for 
which 45 minutes will suffice. 

On removal from the autoclave, the tins are 
merely well rinsed over, and then set one upon 
another, lids up, to cool. Next day they are 
thoroughly cleaned with sawdust, examined, and 
put into store. 

Veal Cutlets. 

The cutlets are trimmed, the bone chopped 
off as close as possible, the meat sprinkled with 
salt and roasted in equal quantities of butter 
and fat. One cutlet is put into each tin, with 
a gravy prepared from the surplus roasting fat 
and a little flour. 

Veal Cutlets and Peas. 

The preparation is the same as above, except 
that green peas, prepared with fresh butter and 
chopped parsley, are added. Tinned or bottled 
peas may also be used. 



PRESERVED MEATS 105 

Fricandeau of Veal and Rolled Veal. 

The fricandeau is made of boned leg of veal, 
well larded, and the roulade of boned shoulder and 
breast. The prepared meat is roasted in fat, and 
cut in suitable pieces when cold. Peas are 
frequently added as garnish. 

The gravy is made of equal parts of butter and 
fat, heated and stirred up with flour, the surplus 
roasting fat and a sufficient amount of stock being 
added. The whole is gradually raised to boiling 
over a slow fire, a little purte of tomatoes being 
finally added. 

Roast Veal. 

Boned leg of veal, with the usual adjuncts, is 
roasted, cut up, and packed in tins with gravy. 

Veal Goulasch. 

Shoulder, breast, and leg of veal are boned and 
cut up into pieces the size of walnuts. Onions, in 
the proportion of 18 oz. to every 22 Ib. of meat, 
are fried to a light yellow in their own weight of 
lard, and then mixed with the meat, the requisite 
amount of salt, and a tablespoonful of red capsicum, 
the whole being boiled with a little gravy until 
cooked through. Of course the mixture is kept 
stirred all the time. 

When finished, the meat is placed on a suitable 
sieve and packed, each tin receiving 4 oz. of meat 
and being then filled up with the sauce. An 
addition of tomato purfo is also recommended. 



106 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Calf's Head en Tortue. 

The cleaned calf's head is cut in two and left 
to soak in fresh water overnight. Next morning 
it is blanched for 1-| hours in weak brine, the 
flesh being taken off the bones when cold, and 
packed into the tins. 

A white sauce, containing plenty of white wine, 
is prepared, mixed with tomato purfo and strongly 
spiced. This sauce is poured over the meat, 
chopped truffles, mushrooms, and stoned salt olives, 
being added as a garnish. 

Servian Rice Meat. 

Selected veal from the leg and shoulder is cut 
up and boiled the same as for goulasch. Mean- 
while one-fourth the quantity of best rice is half 
boiled, well salted, and mixed with the meat, 
without gravy. The whole is filled into tins and 
topped with the same sauce as for goulasch. 

Beef Goulasch. 

Any odd joints, such as neck, brisket, ribs, etc., 
can be used, all the fat and gristle being removed, 
the meat cut up into cubes, whilst all the bones, 
sinews, etc., are made into strong broth, which must 
be ready at the same time as the meat, for which 
it is to serve as gravy. 

To every J cwt. of cut meat 10 Ib. of chopped 
onions are well browned with 4-| Ib. of beef fat. 



PRESERVED MEATS 107 

The meat is added, with a suitable quantity of 
broth, and the whole boiled for about 25 minutes, 
with constant stirring. Finally about 2J oz. of 
capsicums and 1 Ib. of salt are added. The flesh 
is placed on sieves, weighed, cut, and packed along 
with enough gravy to cover it completely. 

Bouillon Meat. 

A strong broth must first be prepared by boiling 
marrow bones for 68 hours, and in this broth the 
meat, preferably from the hindquarters and cut 
into pieces weighing 78 Ib., is boiled gently for 
Ivl 2 hours, so as to be well cooked right through. 

An hour beforehand there should have been 
placed in the pan a net containing spices to the 
amount of f Ib. of parsley root, 2f Ib. of yellow 
turnips, an equal quantity of leeks, 4| Ib. of celery, 
| Ib. of onions, f oz. of peppercorns, f oz. of nut- 
meg, and a few broken laurel leaves, per cwt. of 
meat. When the meat is taken out to cool the 
broth is well salted, concentrated a little if necessary, 
and strained through flannel, the fat being carefully 
skimmed off. This bouillon should set to a jelly 
on cooling. 

The meat is cut into suitable pieces, weighed, 
packed, and covered with the bouillon. 

Roast Beef. 

A roasting joint or suitable cut from the hind- 
quarters is freed from skin, cleaned, rubbed with 



io8 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

salt and pepper, and roasted in small pieces with 
the usual spices, the gravy being thickened to a 
sauce with bone broth and a little flour, coloured 
with burnt sugar if necessary. 

Roast Beef and Onions or Sardines. 

Eoasting joints are cut up into suitable sizes, 
the pieces being salted and peppered and roasted in 
a mixture of butter and fat. When placed in the 
tins, the meat is covered with lightly browned 
slices of onion, or with a sardine cut in halves, and 
the corresponding sauce. 

Steak and Potatoes. 

Sirloin is skinned, cut into suitable pieces, beaten, 
salted and peppered, and roasted quickly in butter ; 
then placed in the tins, garnished with a few small 
baked potatoes, and poured over with the surplus 
roasting fat. 

Hungarian Sirloin. 

The sirloin is prepared as above, larded with 
strips of bacon rolled in red capsicums, and roasted. 
When done, the meat is cooled, cut into suitable 
pieces, and put into tins with the gravy. 

Szkely Goulasch. 

Lean pork, preferably the belly parts freed from 
fat, is boned, cut into cubes, and prepared in the 



PRESERVED MEATS 109 

same manner as beef goulasch, except that a 
smaller amount of capsicums is taken. 

Meanwhile a quantity of sauerkraut is prepared, 
equal portions of this and the goulasch being placed 
in the tins. Tomato purde is added to the goulasch 
sauce. 



Ox Tongue with Puree of Peas or Sauerkraut. 

The fresh tongues must first be pickled (see 
Pickled Tongue), or else pickled tongues are 
purchased from the butcher. They must be boiled 
for about 2 hours to enable the skin to be removed. 

In the meantime a well-spiced puree is made of 
shelled peas, with plenty of fat, and with this the 
tins are filled half full. The tongue is cut into 
pieces about 4 oz. each, and these are placed in the 
tins and covered with browned butter. 

Another method is to fill the tins half full of 
prepared sauerkraut and lay the slices of tongue on 
top. 

Ribs of Pork and Sauerkraut. 

Smoked ribs of pork are slowly boiled for about 
J of an hour, divided into J Ib. pieces, and placed 
in tins already half full of sauerkraut. 

Vienna Sausage and Sauerkraut. 

The sausages, which must be perfectly fresh, are 
first placed in hot water, and packed into tins (three to 
four in each) which are then filled up with sauerkraut, 



no THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

About 1 cwt. of raw sauerkraut is used per 
1000 tins. This quantity is boiled in a tinned 
pan, and at the end of an hour is mixed with 2 1 11 >. 
of flour fried in an equal quantity of lard, another 
7 Ib. of lard being added to the sauerkraut by 
degrees. 

Beef a la Mode. 

Leg of beef is laid in a pickle, half vinegar and 
half water, spiced with onions, laurel, lemon slices, 
and pepper, for several days, then stewed with 
plenty of fat, cut into slices and put into tins with 
the gravy, the piquant flavour being heightened by 
adding white wine. Young or preserved carrots 
and half-boiled potato cubes are added as a garnish. 

Roast Hare and Macaroni. 

The hare is cut up, freed from skin, and the 
best joints, back and hind legs, are placed in pickle 
for a few days. This pickle is made by boiling 
vinegar with twice its volume of water, a few slices 
of onion and lemon, juniper berries, laurel leaves, 
and rosemary, with the necessary amount of salt, 
the meat being introduced when the pickle is cold. 

After pickling, the meat is dried, well larded, 
and roasted with lard. The resulting gravy is 
prepared with plenty of sour cream, and strained 
like all sauces. The cold hare is cut into suitable 
pieces, and put into the tins along with the sauce. 
Macaroni broken into small pieces, boiled till half 
soft in water, and then larded with good fresh 



PRESERVED MEATS in 

butter, is used as a garnish, a tablespoonful being 
put in at one side of the tin. About 3 Ib. of 
macaroni will be enough for 60 tins. 

The heart, liver, and forelegs are roasted by them- 
selves, to be used later on, like the trimmings from 
the main joints, for hare " paste." 

Roast Venison. 

The preparation is the same as for roast hare, 
and a sauce with plenty of sour cream is used. It 
is advisable to add one-third of Italian red wine to 
the pickle. The latter, however, is not used in 
preparing the sauce, water being sufficient when no 
stock is available. 

Roast Wild Boar. 

The flesh is trimmed free from fat, cut into 
suitable pieces, and steeped for 6-8 days in a 
mixture of vinegar and red wine, plentifully spiced 
with onions, a few garlic bulbs, crushed juniper 
berries, a few laurel leaves, cloves, pepper, a little 
lemon peel, and chopped ginger. The sauce is 
prepared with sour cream, made piquant with spices. 

Mutton and Cabbage. 

Boned leg and shoulder of mutton are roasted 
with salt, garlic, and a mixture of butter and fat 
(equal parts), the bones being placed in the pan in 
order to make a strong gravy. 



ii2 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Three oz. of the meat are placed in each tin, 
along with a piece of cabbage, and the tin filled up 
with gravy. 

Thirty small hearts of cabbage are taken to 
every 44 Ib. of meat, and, after being washed, are 
quartered and lightly blanched in salt water. 

Ox Tongue. 

The cleaned tongues are well beaten with a 
wooden mallet and then rubbed thoroughly with 
a mixture of salt, pepper, and saltpetre, about 3^ oz. 
of the latter being sufficient for 30 tongues. 

The tongues are next laid in suitable staunch 
wooden tubs and weighted down. If sufficient 
brine is not formed, water is poured in so as to 
cover the tongues, and the tubs are placed in a cool 
place. 

At the end of a month the tongues will be ready, 
and after being cleaned are boiled in fresh water 
for about 3 hours, to make them skin easily. 
They are then trimmed into the proper shape, and 
each is put into a separate tin. The best gravy 
is meat broth, freed from fat and mixed with 
a few sheets of gelatine, so that the broth will 
jelly. 

After the tins have been soldered down they are 
heated on the water-bath until the lids bulge, 
whereupon a small hole is punched in each lid, and 
after this hole has been soldered up again the 
tins are heated at 243 F. for an hour in the 
autoclave. 



PRESERVED MEATS 113 

Savoury Paste " Appetit-Pain." 

Twenty-two Ib. of veal are roasted with a 
mixture of fat and butter (half and half), 4J Ib. 
of fat pork are boiled at the same time, and 
2^ Ib. of sliced onions are lightly browned in 
2 Ib. of fresh butter, the whole being set aside 
to cool. 

Two and a half Ib. of stale bread, previously 
softened with water, are now pressed well, mixed 
with the yolk of 40 eggs, and incorporated with 
the cold minced meat, the onions, 2| Ib. of well- 
cleaned sardines, the juice of two lemons, 3J oz. 
of capers, half a tin of truffles, and pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg, the whole being passed through a mincer. 
When the mass has passed through the finest disc 
of the mincer it is laid on a marble slab and 
worked up with the beaten-up whites of the 40 
eggs and a little pasty spice. Should the mass be 
too firm to spread easily, it is mixed with the 
surplus roasting gravy or the broth from the boiled 
pork. 

The mixture is filled into tins with a spoon, 
the tins being closed and sterilised like other 
preserved meats. 

Beef Paste. 

Twenty-eight Ib. of beefsteak or other tender 
joint are roasted with 2 1 Ib. of butter and a 
suitable quantity of salt. Meanwhile 11 Ib. 
of fat pork are thoroughly boiled, and 2J Ib. of 
onions are browned with 1 Ib. of butter. The 
8 



n 4 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

meat bones and trimmings are boiled to soup with 
leeks and celery. 

The cooled meat is cut up, mixed with the onions, 
spice, and a half tin of truffles, and put through the 
mincer, after which the whole is turned on to a 
marble slab and worked to the proper consistency 
with a bottle of sherry or madeira and the rest of 
the meat gravy and soup, plenty of spice being 
used. Finally it is put into tins and sterilised as 
usual. 

Hare Paste. 

Twenty-two pound of roast hare and 13| Ib. of 
boiled fat pork are boned and cut up, being then 
mixed with 1| Ib. of browned onions, 1J Ib of salt, 
a little pasty spice, and truffle trimmings, and put 
through the mincer. The whole is then mixed 
with 4J Ib. best lard, the juice of two lemons, 
and the gravy or soup from the meat, and filled 
into tins. 

Venison Paste. 

This is prepared in the same way as hare paste, 
except that venison is used. 

Game Paste. 

This group of preparations comprises only such 
game as pheasants, snipe, pigeon, etc. In all cases 
the roasted meat is separated from the bones, and 
reduced to the proper consistency with best butter, 
Lard is used only in the'roasting. 



PRESERVED MEATS 115 

Foie Qras Paste. 

Thirty-three pounds of goose liver, thoroughly 
washed in water, are boiled with a little water until 
the inside is no longer rare. Meanwhile 44 Ib. of 
fat belly of pork are boiled well, and the two when 
cold are mixed with thirty softened stale rolls, and 
put through the mincing machine to chop the mass 
up fine. 

The resulting mass is next kneaded on a stone 
slab with f Ib. of salt, pasty spice, and 2-J Ib. of 
chopped tinned truffles, the later being in cubes 
large enough to be visible in the mass. Finally 
the beaten-up white of 120 eggs is added, and the 
mixture put into tins. The simplest form to use 
the white of egg is dried egg albumin, 13 oz. of 
which, dissolved in 5 pints of cold water, will 
correspond to the above number of eggs. 



THE END 



INDEX 



Agaric, orange, tinned, 94. 
Almonds, green, preserving, 5, 

6. 

Angelica, 22. 
" Appe tit-pain," 113. 
Apple jelly, 55. 
Apple marmalade, 47. 
Apple pulp in jam, 45, 46, 47, 

48, 53. 
Apples, 20. 

Apricots, canned, 27, 28. 
Apricots, halved and skinned, 

11. 
Apricots, halved, unskiimed, 

11. 

Apricot jam, 48. 
Apricot jelly, 56. 
Apricot marmalade, 46, 47. 
Apricots, whole, 11. 
Artichokes, tinning, 89. 
Asparagus, tinned, 78. 
Autoclave, 76, 77. 

Beans, tinning, 85-88. 

Beef a la mode, 110. 

Beef paste, 113. 

Beef, roast, and onions or 

sardines, 108. 
Bilberries, canned, 30. 
Bilberries, preserved, 18. . 
Bilberry jam, 50. 
Blackberries, preserving, 18. 
Blackberry jam, 50. 
Blackberry jelly, 56. 
Blanching fruit, 31. 



Blanching vegetables, 74. 
Boletus, edible, 94. 

Candied fruits, 31-41. 
Candied peel, 62-66. 
Candying fruit, 35. 
Canned fruit, 25-30. 
Carrots, tinning, 88. 
Celery chunks, tinned, 93. 
Chanterelles, tinned, 94. 
Cherries, canned, 26. 
Cherries, Cornelian, 14. 
Cherries in vinegar, 24. 
Cherries, Mahaleb, 9. 
Cherries, Mahaleb, canned, 27. 
Cherries, stoned, preserving, 9. 
Cherries, unstoned, preserving, 

8. 

Cherry jam, 49. 
Cherry juice, 58. 
Cherry marmalade, 46. 
Cherry, morella, jam, 50. 
Chestnuts, glazed, 37. 
Chestnuts, preserving, 21. 
Chlorophyll, colouring peas 

with, 84. 

Citron peel, 62-65. 
Colouring matter for preserves, 

7. 
Colouring preserved vegetables, 

73. 
Coolers for preserved vegetables, 

72, 73. 

Cranberries, preserving, 18. 
Cranberry jelly, 56. 



n8 



INDEX 



Currant jelly, 56. 
Currant marmalade, 45. 
Currant pulp in jams, 45, 46, 

49. 

Currant, red, jam, 49. 
Currant, red, and raspberry jam, 

52. 

Currants, canned, 26. 
Currants, preserving, 8. 

Figs, preserving, 19. 

Foie gras paste, 115. 

French beans, tinning, 86. 

Fruit, blanching, 31. 

Fruit, canned, 25-30. 

Fruit, glazing, 33. 

Fruit jellies, 54-57. 

Fruit juices, 57-59. 

Fruit, mixed, 22. 

Fruit pulp for ices, 61. 

Fruit pulp, storing, 42. 

Fruit, sulphuring, 32. 

Fruit syrups, 59, 60. 

Fruits, glazed and candied, 31- 

41. 
Fruits, preserved, 3-24. 

Game paste, 114. 
Glazed fruits, 31-41. 
Glazing fruit, 33. 
Gherkins in mustard, 96. 
Gherkins, pickled, 96. 
Gherkins salted, 96. 
Gooseberries, canned, 25. 
Gooseberries, preserving, 6. 
Gooseberry and strawberry jam, 

52. 

Gooseberry jam, 48. 
Goulasch, Szekely, 108. 
Goulasch, veal, 107. 
Greengage marmalade, 46. 
Greengages, canned, 29. 
Greengages, preserving, 12. 

Hare, roast and macaroni, 
110. 

Hare paste, 114. 

Heat, source of, for preserv- 
ing, 3. 



Jams, 48-53. 
Jellies, fruit, 51-57. 
Juices, fruit, 57-59. 
Julienne, tinned, 92. 

Leipzig all-sorts, 93. 
Lemon syrup, 59. 

Macedoine, tinning, 92. 

Marmalades, 42-48. 

Meats, preserved, 103-115. 

Melons, 20. 

Mixed pickles, 98. 

Mixed vegetables, tinning, 92. 

Morels, tinned, 94. 

Mushrooms, pickled, 95. 

Mushrooms, tinned, 93. 

Mustarda, 40. 

Mutton and cabbage, 111. 

Neutral in, 66. 

Nuts, black (unskhmed), pre- 
serving, 9. 
Xuts, white, 10. 

Orange marmalade, 47. 
Orange peel, 65, 66. 
Orange syrup, 59. 
Oranges, Genoa, 21. 
Ox tongue, 112. 
Ox tongue with peas or sauer- 
kraut, 109. 

Pans for boiling vetegables, 

74, 75. 

Pans for steaming fruit, 44, 45. 
Pans for preserving, 3. 
Pastes, meat, 113-115. 
Peach jelly, 56. 
Peach marmalade, 46. 
Peaches, canned, 29. 
Peaches (halved), 15. 
Peaches (whole), 15. 
Pears, canned, 27. 
Pears, halved, 14. 
Pears, whole, 13. 
Peas, tinning, 80. 
Piccalilli, 98. 
Pickled gherkins, 93. 



INDEX 



119 



Pickled mushrooms, 95. 
Pickles, mixed, 98. 
Pineapple jam, 52. 
Pineapple juice, 60. 
Pineapple, preserving, 23. 
Pineapple slices, glazing, 39. 
Plum jam, 52. 
Plum marmalade, 46. 
Plums, blue, glazing, 36. 
Plums in vinegar, 23. 
Plums, late, canned, 29. 
Plums, Mirabelle, canned, 28. 
Plums, Mirabelle, preserving, 

12. 

Plums, skinned, 17. 
Plums, steeped, 47. 
Pork ribs and sauerkraut, 109. 
Preserved fruits, 3-67. 
Preserved meats, 103-115. 
Preserved vegetables, 71-99. 
Pulping machinery, 43, 44. 
Pulping machinery, 50. 51. 

Quince jelly, 55. 
Quinces, 16. 

Raspberry and red currant jam, 

52. 

Raspberry jam, 49. 
Raspberry jelly, 56. 
Raspberry juice, 57. 
Raspberry marmalade, 45. 
Raspberries, preserving, 18. 
Rhubarb, preserved, 30. 
Roseberries, preserving, 16. 
Roseberry marmalade, 46. 

Savoury paste, 113. 

Shelling machine for peas, 79- 

81. 

Sirloin, Hungarian, 108. 
Slicing machine for beans, 87. 
Slicing machine for carrots, 88. 
Spinach, tinning, 89. 
Steak and potatoes, 108. 
Sterilising fruit, 4. 



Sterilising tinned vegetables, 
76. 

Stoppers, patent, 3. 

Storing tinned vegetables, 76. 

Strawberry and gooseberry jam, 
52. 

Strawberry jam, 49. 

Strawberry jelly, 56. 

Strawberry juice, 58. 

Strawberry marmalade, 45. 

Strawberries, canned, 25. 

Strawberries, crystallised, 40. 

Strawberries, garden, preserv- 
ing, 7. 

Strawberries, wild, 8. 

Sulphuring fruit, 32. 

Syrups, fruit, 59. 

Tin-closing machine, 83. 
Tinned vegetables, 71-99. 
Tomato marmalade, 48. 
Tomato puree, 91. 
Tomatoes, tinning, 90. 
Truck for conveying cages, 84. 
Truck for conveying tins, 82. 
Truffles, tinned, 95. 

Veal cutlets, 104. 

Veal fricandeau, 105. 

Veal goulasch, 105. 

Veal roast, 105. 

Vegetables, preserved, 71-99. 

Venison paste, 114. 

Venison, roast, 111. 

Vienna sausage and sauerkraut, 

109. 

Vinegar, curry, 99. 
Vinegar, pickling, 98. 
Vinegar, preserving cherries in, 

24. 
Vinegar, preserving plums in, 

23. 

Water for preserving vegetables, 

71. 
Wild boar, roast, 111. 



Printed by MORRISON & GIBB LIMITED, Edinburgh 



The Manufacture of 

PRESERVED FOODS AND 
SWEETMEATS. 



A HANDBOOK OF ALL 

The Processes for the Preservation of Flesh, Fruit, and 

Vegetables, and for the Preparation of Dried Fruit, 

Dried Vegetables, Marmalades, Fruit=Syrups, and 

Fermented Beverages, and of all kinds of 

Candies, Candied Fruit, Sweetmeats, 

Rocks, Drops, DragSes, Pralines, 

etc. 

By A. HAUSNER. 

Translated from the German of the Third Enlarged Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 28 Illustrations. 223 Pages. 

CONTENTS. 



The Causes of the Putrefaction of Food 
The Chemical Composition of Foods The 
Products of Decomposition The Causes 
of Fermentation and Putrefaction Pre- 
servative Bodies The Various Methods 
of Preserving Food The Preservation of 
Animal Food Preserving Meat by Means 
of Ice The Preservation of Meat by Char- 
coal Preservation of Meat by Drying 
The Preservation of Meat by the Exclusion 
of Air The Appert Method Preserving 
Flesh by Smoking Quick-Smoking Pre- 
serving Meat with Salt Quick-Salting by 
Air-Pressure Quick-Salting by Liquid- 
Pressure Gamgee's Method of Preserving 
Meat The Preservation of Eggs Pre- 
servation of White and Yolk of Egg- 
Milk Preservation Condensed Milk 
The Preservation of Fat Manufacture of 
Soup-TabletsMeat Biscuits Extract of 
Beef The Preservation of Vegetable 
Foods in General Compressing Green 
Vegetables Preservation of Vegetables 
by Appert's Method The Preservation of 
Fruit Preservation of Fruit by Storage 



The Preservation of Fruit by Drying- 
Drying Fruit by Artificial Heat Roasting 
Fruit The Preservation of Fruit with 
Sugar Boiled Preserved Fruit The 
Preservation of Fruit in Spirit, Acetic 
Acid, or Gtycerine Preservation of Fruit 
without Boiling Jam Manufacture The 
Manufacture of Fruit Jellies The Mak- 
ing of Gelatine Jellies The Manufacture 
of Sulzcn The Preservation of Fer- 
mented Beverages 

THE MANUFACTURE OF CANDIED 
FRUIT : The Manufacture of Boiled Sugar 
and Caramel The Candjdng of Fruit- 
Caramelised Fruit The Manufacture of 
Sugar Sticks, or Barley-Sugar Bonbon- 
Making Fruit Drops The Manufacture 
j of Dragees The Machinery and Appli- 
ances used in Candy Manufacture 
Dyeing Candies and Bonbons Essential 
Oils used in Candy - Making Fruit- 
Essences The Manufacture of Filled Bon- 
bons, Liqueur Bonbons, and Stamped 
Lozenges Receipts for Jams and Jellies 
Receipts for Bonbon-Making Dragees. 



Price 7s. 6d. net (Post free, 7s. 9d. Home; 7s. lOd. Abroad). 

Can be obtained through all Booksellers, or of 

SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON, 

8 BROADWAY, LUDQATE HILL, LONDON, E.C. 



Efkibgeb Catalooue 

OF 

Special tseefinieal ffiooks. 



PAGE 

Adhesives 10 
Agricultural Chemistry ... 9 
Air, Industrial Use of ... 10 
Alcohol, Industrial ... 9 
Alum and its Sulphates ... 8 
Ammonia ... ... ... 8 
Aniline Colours ... ... 3 


INDEX TO SUBJECTS 

PAGE 

Enamels 13 
Engineering Handbooks 19, 20 
Engraving 24 
Essential Oils 7 
Evaporating Apparatus .. 18 
External Plumbing ... 21 
Fats 6 


PAGE 

Pottery Marks 12 
Power-loom Weaving ... 14 
Preserved Foods 23 
Printers' Ready Reckoner 24 
Printing Inks ... 3, 4, 5 
Recipes 3, 13 
Resins ... .. 9 


Animal Fats 
Anti-corrosive Paints 
Architecture, Terms in ... 
Architectural Pottery 
Artificial Perfumes 
Balsams 
Bleaching Agents, etc. ... 
Bone Products 
Bookbinding 
Brick-making ... 11, 
Burnishing Brass 
Carpet Yarn Printing 
Casein 
Celluloid 
Cement 
Ceramic Books ... 11, 
Charcoal 
Chemical Analysis 
Chemical Essays ... 
Chemical Reagents 
Chemical Works 
Church Lace 
Clays 


6 

4 
22 
12 
7 
9 
17 
8 
24 
12 
21 
16 
4 
23 
22 
12 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
14 
12 
18 
9 
18 
16 
3 
16 
17 
6 
18 
7 
16 
17 
17 
15 
22 
4 
15 
18 
9 
5 
23 
5 

in 


Faults in Woollen Goods 15 
Flax Spinning 17 
Food and Drugs 23 
Fruit Preserving 23 
Gas Firing 18 
Glass-making Recipes .. 13 
Glass Painting 13 
Glue-making and Testing.. 8 
Glycerine ... ... .. 7 
Greases ... 6 
Gutta Percha 11 
Hat Manufacturing ... 14 
Hemp Spinning " 17 
History of Staffs Potteries 12 
Hops 22 
Hot-water Supply ... 21 
India-rubber 11 
India-rubber Substitutes 5 
Inks 3, 4, 5, 10 
Insecticides, etc 22 
Iron-corrosion ... ... 4 
Iron, Science of 18 
Japanning 21 
Jute Spinning 17 


Ring Spinning Frame ... 17 
Risks of Occupations ... 10 
Riveting China, etc. ... 12 
Scheele's Essays 8 
Sealing Waxes 10 
Shale Oils and Tars ... 9 
Sheet Metal Working ... 21 
Shoe Polishes 6 
Silk Dyeing 16 
Silk Throwing, etc. ... 17 
Smoke Prevention 18 
Soap Powders ... ... 7 
Soaps . 7 


Spinning 15, 17 
Spirit Varnishes 5 
Staining Marble, and Bone 23 
Stain-removing Soaps ... 7 
Standard Cloths 13 
Steam Drying ... ... 10 
Steel Hardening 18 
Sugar Technology ... 24 
Sweetmeats 23 
Tallow 6 
Technical Schools, List ... 24 
Terra cotta 12 


Coal Dust Firing 
Coal Gas By-Products 
Colliery Recovery Work... 
Colour Matching (Textile) 
Colour Recipes 
Colour Theory 
Combing Machines 
Compounding Oils, etc. ... 
Condensing Apparatus ... 
Cosmetics 
Cotton Dyeing 
Cotton Spinning ... 
Cotton Waste 
Damask Weaving ... 
Dampness in Buildings ... 
Decorators' Books 
Decorative Textiles 
Dental Metallurgy 
Disinfection 
Driers 
Drugs 
Drying Oils 
Drying with Air, etc. 


Lacquering 21 
Lake Pigments 3 
Lead 10 
Leather-working Mater'ls 6,1 1 
Linoleum ... ... ... 5 
Lithographic Inks ... 5, 23 
Lithography ... ... 23 


Testing Paint Materials ...4, 5 
Textile Colour Mixing ... 16 
Textile Design 14 
Textile Fabrics ... 13, 14, 15 
Textile Fibres 14 
Textile Materials 14 
Timber 22 


Lubricants 6 
Manures ... ... 8, 9 
Meat Preserving 23 
Medicated Soaps 7 
Metal Polishing Soaps ... 7 
Mineral Pigments ... ... 3 
Mineral Waxes 6 
Mine Ventilation 18 
Mining, Electricity ... 18 
Needlework 14 
Oil and Colour Recipes ... 3 
Oil Boiling 5 
Oil Merchants' Manual ... 6 
Oils 5, 6, 7 


Varnishes 5 
Vegetable Fats and Oils ... 6 
Vegetable Preserving ... 23 
Warp Sizing 15 
Waste Utilisation 9 
Water, Industrial Use 10,11 
Water-proofing Fabrics ... 15 
Waxes 6 
Weaving Calculations ... 15 
White Lead and Zinc White 5 
Wiring Calculations ... 21 
Wood Distillation ... 22 
Wood Extracts 22 
Wood Waste Utilisation... 22 
Wood-Dyeing 23 
Wool Dyeing 16 
Woollen Goods ... 15, 16 
Worsted Spinning ... 15 
Woven Fabrics 15 
Writing Inks 10 
X-Ray Work 11 
Yarn Sizing 15 
Yarn Numbering and Test- 
ing 14, 15 
Zinc White Paints ... 5 


Dyeing Marble, etc. 
Dyeing Fabrics 
Dyers' Materials ... 
Dye-stuffs 
Edible Fats and Oils 
Electric Lamp Develop- 
ment 
Electric Wiring 
Electricity in Collieries ... 
Emery 
Enamelling Metal ... 


23 
16 
16 
16 
6 

21 
21 
18 
24 
13 


Ozone, Industrial Use of... 10 
Paint Manufacture ... 3 
Paint Materials 3 
Paint-material Testing ... 5 
Paint Mixing ... 3, 4 
Paper-Mill Chemistry ... 13 
Pigments 3, 9 
Plumbers' Books 21 
Pottery Clays 12 
Pottery Decorating ... 11 
Pottery Manufacture 11. 12 



PUBLISHED BY 

SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON 

(E. GREENWOOD, PROPRIETOR', 

8 BROADWAY, LUDGATE, LONDON, E.G. (ENGLAND), 



FULL PARTICULARS OF CONTENTS 

Of the Books mentioned in this ABRIDGED CATALOGUE 
will be found in the following Catalogues of 

CURRENT TECHNICAL BOOKS. 



LIST I. 

Artists' Colours Bone Products Butter and Margarine Manufacture Casein 
Cements Chemical Works (Designing and Erection) Chemistry (Agricultural, Indus- 
trial, Practical and Theoretical) Colour Mixing Colour Manufacture Compounding 
Oils Decorating Driers Drying Oils Drysaltery Emery Essential Oils Fats 
(Animal, Vegetable, Edible) Gelatines Glues Greases Gums Inks - Lead- 
Leather Lubricants Oils Oil Crushing Paints Paint Mauufacturing Paint 
Material Testing Perfumes Petroleum Pharmacy Recipes (Paint, Oil and Colour) 
Resins Sealing Waxes Shoe Polishes Soap Manufacture Solvents Spirit 
Varnishes Varnishes White Lead Workshop Wrinkles. 

LIST II. 



Bookbinding Carpet Yarn Printing Colou 




LIST III. 

Architectural Terms Brassware (Bronzing, Burnishing, Dipping, Lacquering) 
Brickmaking Building Cement Work Ceramic Industries China Coal-dust Firing 

Colliery Books Concrete Condensing Apparatus Dental Metallurgy Drainage 
Drugs Dyeing Earthenware Electrical Books Enamelling 1 Enamels Engineer- 
ing Handbooks Evaporating Apparatus Flint Glass-making Foods Food Preserv- 
ing Fruit Preserving Gas Engines Gas Firing Gearing Glassware (Painting, 
Riveting) Hops Iron (Construction, Science) Japanning Lead Meat Preserving 

Mines (Haulage, Electrical Equipment, Ventilation, Recovery Work from) Plants 
(Diseases, Fungicides, Insecticides) Plumbing Books Pottery (Architectural, Clays 
Decorating, Manufacture, Marks on) Reinforced Concrete Riveting (China, 
Earthenware, Glassware) Sanitary Engineering Steam Turbines Steel (Hardening, 
Tempering) Sugar Sweetmeats Toothed Gearing Vegetable Preserving Wood 
Dyeing X-Ray Work. 



COPIES OF ANY OF THESE LISTS WILL BE SENT 
POST FREE ON APPLICATION. 



(Paints, Colours, Pigments and 
Printing Inks.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OF PIGMENTS. By ERNEST J. 
PARRY, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C. ; F.C.S., and J. H. COSTE, F.I.C., 
F.C.S. Demy Svo. Five Illustrations. 285pp. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lls. home; 11s. 2d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF PAINT. A Practical 
Handbook for Paint Manufacturers, Merchants and Painters. 
By J. CRUICKSHANK SMITH, B.Sc. Second Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. Demy Svo. 288pp. 80 Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lls. home ; lls. 2d. abroad.) 

DICTIONARY OF CHEMICALS AND RAW 
PRODUCTS USED IN THE MANUFACTURE 
OF PAINTS, COLOURS, VARNISHES AND 
ALLIED PREPARATIONS. By GEORGE H. HURST, 
F.C.S. Demy Svo. 370 pp. Second Revised Edition. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lls. home ; lls. 2d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF LAKE PIGMENTS 
FROM ARTIFICIAL COLOURS. By FRANCIS H. 
JENNISON, F.I.C., F.C.S. Sixteen Coloured Plates, showing 
Specimens of Eighty-nine Colours, specially prepared from 
the Recipes given in the Book. 136 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF MINERAL AND LAKE 
PIGMENTS. Containing Directions for the Manu- 
facture of all Artificial, Artists and Painters' Colours, Enamel, 
Soot and Metallic Pigments. A text-book for Manufacturers, 
Merchants, Artists and Painters. By Dr. JOSEF BERSCH. 
Translated by A. C. WRIGHT, M.A. (Oxon.), B.Sc. (Lond.). Forty- 
three Illustrations. 476 pp. Demy Svo. Price 12s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

RECIPES FOR THE COLOUR, PAINT, VARNISH, 
OIL, SOAP AND DRYSALTERY TRADES. 

Compiled by AN ANALYTICAL CHEMIST. 330pp. Second Revised 
and Enlarged Edition. Demy Svo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, lls. home ; lls. 2d. abroad.) 

OIL COLOURS AND PRINTERS' INKS. By Louis 
EDGAR ANDES. Translated from the German. 215 pp. Crown 
Svo. 56 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home 
and abroad.) 



MODERN PRINTING INKS. A Practical Handbook 
for Printing Ink Manufacturers and Printers. By ALFRED SEY- 
MOUR. Demy 8vo. Six Illustrations. 90 pages. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

THREE HUNDRED SHADES AND HOW TO MIX 
THEM. For Architects, Painters and Decorators. By 
A. DESAINT, Artistic Interior Decorator of Paris. The book con- 
tains 100 folio Plates, measuring 12 in. by 7 in., each Plate con- 
taining specimens of three artistic shades. These shades are all 
numbered, and their composition and particulars for mixing are 
fully given at the beginning of the book. Each Plate is inter- 
leaved with grease-proof paper, and the volume is very artistic- 
ally bound in art and linen with the Shield of the Painters' Guild 
impressed on the cover in gold and silver. Price 21s. net. (Post 
free, 21s. 7d. home; 22s. 2d. abroad.) 



HOUSE DECORATING AND PAINTING. By W. 

NORMAN BROWN. Eighty-eight Illustrations. 150 pp. Crown 
Svo. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 



A HISTORY OF DECORATIVE ART. By W. NORMAN 
BROWN. Thirty-nine Illustrations. 96 pp. Crown Svo. Price 
Is. net. (Post free, Is. 4d. home and abroad.) 

WORKSHOP WRINKLES for Decorators, Painters, 
Paperhangers, and Others. By W. N. BROWN. Crown Svo. 
128 pp. Second Edition, Price 2s. 6d. net. (Post free, 2s. lOd. 
home and abroad.) 

CASEIN. By ROBERT SCHERER. Translated from the 
German by CHAS. SALTER. Demy Svo. Illustrated. Second 
Revised English Edition. 160pp. Price7s.6d.net. (Post free, 
8s. home and abroad.) 

SIMPLE METHODS FOR TESTING PAINTERS' 
MATERIALS. By A. C. WRIGHT, M.A. (Oxon.), 
B.Sc. (Lond.). Crown Svo. 160 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 
5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

IRON-CORROSION, ANTI-FOULING AND ANTI- 
CORROSIVE PAINTS. Translated from the German 
of Louis EDGAR ANDES. Sixty-two Illustrations. 275 pp. 
Demy Svo. Price 10s. 6d, net. (Post free, 11s. home and 
abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List I. 



THE TESTING AND VALUATION OF RAW 
MATERIALS USED IN PAINT AND COLOUR 
MANUFACTURE. By M. W. JONES, F.C.S. A 
Book for the Laboratories of Colour Works. 88 pp. Crown 8vo. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE AND COMPARATIVE 
MERITS OF WHITE LEAD AND ZINC WHITE 

PAINTS. By G. PETIT, Civil Engineer, etc. Trans- 
lated from the French. Crown 8vo. 100 pp. Price 4s. net. 
(Post free, 4s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

PREPARATION AND USES OF WHITE ZINC 

PAINTS. Translated from the French of P. FLEURY. 
Crown 8vo. 280 pages. Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 5d. home ; 
6s. 6d. abroad.) 



(Varnishes and Drying Oils.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF VARNISHES AND 
KINDRED INDUSTRIES. By J. GEDDES MC!NTOSH. 

Second, greatly enlarged, English Edition, in three Volumes, 
based on and including the work of Ach. Livache. 

VOLUME I. OIL CRUSHING, REFINING AND 
BOILING, THE MANUFACTURE OF LINO- 
LEUM, PRINTING AND LITHOGRAPHIC 
INKS, AND INDIA-RUBBER SUBSTITUTES. 

Demy 8vo. [Revised Edition in preparation. 

VOLUME II. VARNISH MATERIALS AND OIL- 
VARNISH MAKING. DemySvo. 70 Illustrations. 
220 pp. Price 10s. 6J. net. (Post free, 11s. home and abroad.) 

VOLUME III. SPIRIT VARNISHES AND SPIRIT 
VARNISH MATERIALS. DemySvo. Illustrated. 
464pp. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 2d. 
abroad.) 

DRYING OILS, BOILED OIL AND SOLID AND 
LIQUID DRIERS. By L. E. ANDS. Expressly 
Written for this Series of Special Technical Books, and the 
Publishers hold the Copyright lor English and Foreign Editions. 
Second Revised Edition. Forty-three Illustrations. 352 pp. 
Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 2d. 
abroad.) 

(Analysis of Resins, see page 9.) 



(Oils, Fats, Waxes, Greases, Petroleum.) 

LUBRICATING OILS, FATS AND GREASES : 

Their Origin, Preparation, Properties, Uses and Analyses. A 
Handbook for Oil Manufacturers, Refiners and Merchants, and 
the Oil and Fat Industry in General. By GEORGE H. HURST, 
F.C.S. Third Revised and Enlarged Edition. Seventy-four 
illustrations. 384 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, lls. home ; 11s. 2.1. abroad.) 

MINERAL WAXES: Their Preparation and Uses. By 
RUDOLF GREGORIUS. Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 
250 pp. 32 Illustrations. Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 5d. 
home ; 6s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE PRACTICAL COMPOUNDING OF OILS, 
TALLOW AND GREASE FOR LUBRICA- 
TION, ETC. By An EXPERT OIL REFINER. Second 
Edition. Demy 8vo. 100 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF LUBRICANTS, SHOE 
POLISHES AND LEATHER DRESSINGS. By 

RICHARD BRUNNER. Translated from the Sixth German Edition. 
Second English Edition. Crown 8vo. 188 pp. 10 Illustrations. 
Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

THE OIL MERCHANTS' MANUAL AND OIL 
TRADE READY RECKONER. Compiled by 
FRANK F. SHERRIFF. Second Edition Revised and Enlarged. 
Demy 8vo. 214pp. With Two Sheets of Tables. Price 7s. 6d. 
net. '(Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

ANIMAL FATS AND OILS: Their Practical Pro- 
duction, Purification and Uses for a great Variety of Purposes. 
Their Properties, Falsification and Examination. Translated 
from the German of Louis EDGAR ANDES. Sixty-two Illustrations. 
240 pp. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Demy 8vo. 
Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lls. home and abroad.) 

VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS: Their Practical 

Preparation, Purification and Employment for Various Purposes, 
their Properties, Adulteration and Examination. Translated 
from the German of Louis EDGAR ANDES. Ninety-four Illus- 
trations. 340 pp. Second Edition. Demy Svo. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lls. home ; lls. 2d. abroad.) 

EDIBLE FATS AND OILS : Their Composition, Manu- 
facture and Analysis. By W. H. SIMMONS, B.Sc. (Lond.), and 
C. A. MITCHELL, B.A. (Oxon.). Demy Svo. 150 pp. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List I. 



7 

(Glycerine.) 

GLYCERINE : Its Production, Uses, and Examination. 
By S. W. KOPPE. Translated from the Second German Edition. 
260 pp. 7 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 8s. home and abroad.) 



(Essential Oils and Perfumes.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OF ESSENTIAL OILS AND 
ARTIFICIAL PERFUMES. By ERNEST J. PARRY, 
B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C., F.C.S. Second Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. 552 pp. 20 Illustrations. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. Id. home; 13s. 8d. abroad.) 



(Soap Manufacture.) 

SOAPS. A Practical Manual of the Manufacture of 
Domestic, Toilet and other Soaps. By GEORGE H. HURST, F.C.S. 
2nd edition. 390 pp. 66 Illustrations. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. home; I3s. 2d. abroad.) 

TEXTILE SOAPS AND OILS. Handbook on the 
Preparation, Properties and Analysis of the Soaps and Oils used 
in Textile Manufacturing, Dyeing and Printing. By GEORGE 
H. HURST, F.C.S. Second Edition, Revised and partly re- 
written by W. H. SIMMONS, B.Sc. (Lond.). Demy 8vo. 200 pp. 
11 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and 
abroad.) 

THE HANDBOOK OF SOAP MANUFACTURE. 

By WM. H. SIMMONS, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.C.S., and H. A. APPLETON. 
Demy 8vo. 160 pp. 27 Illustrations. Price 8s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 9s. home and abroad.) 



(Cosmetical Preparations.) 

COSMETICS: MANUFACTURE, EMPLOYMENT 
AND TESTING OF ALL COSMETIC 
MATERIALS AND COSMETIC SPECIALITIES. 

Translated from the German of Dr. THEODOR ROLLER. Crown 
Svo. 262 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. 
abroad.) 



(Glue, Bone Products and Manures.) 

GLUE AND GLUE TESTING. By SAMUEL RIDEAL, 
D.Sc. (Lond.). Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Demy 
8vo. 196 pp. 14 Illustrations. .Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
11s. home and abroad.) 

BONE PRODUCTS AND MANURES : An Account 
of the most recent Improvements in the Manufacture of Fat, 
Glue, Animal Charcoal, Size, Gelatine and Manures. By THOMAS 
LAMBERT, Technical and Consulting Chemist. Second Revised 
Edition. Demy 8vo. 172 pages. 17 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

(See also Chemical Manures, p. 9.) 

(Chemicals, Waste Pro.ducts, etc.) 

REISSUE OF CHEMICAL ESSAYS OF C. W. 
SCHEELE. First Published in English in 1786. 
Translated from the Academy of Sciences at Stockholm, with 
Additions. 300 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 6d. 
home and abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF ALUM AND THE SUL- 
PHATES AND OTHER SALTS OF ALUMINA 
AND IRON. Their Uses and Applications as Mordants 
in Dyeing and Calico Printing, and their other Applications in 
the Arts, Manufactures, Sanitary Engineering, Agriculture and 
Horticulture. Translated from the French of LUCIEN GESCH- 
WIND. 195 Illustrations. 400 pp. Royal 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 2d. abroad.) 

AMMONIA AND ITS COMPOUNDS: Their Manu- 
facture and Uses. By CAMILLE VINCENT, Professor at the 
Central School of Arts and Manufactures, Paris. Translated 
from the French by M. J. SALTER. Royal 8vo. 114 pp. Thirty- 
two Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 
5s. 8d. abroad.) 

CHEMICAL WORKS: Their Design, Erection, and 
Equipment. By S. S. DYSON and S. S. CLARKSON. Royal 8vo. 
220 pp. With 9 Folding Plates and Illustrations. Price 21s. 
net. (Post free, 21s. 6d. home; 21s. lOd. abroad.) 

MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, as applied to 
the Assay of Fuels, Ores, Metals, Alloys, Salts and other Mineral 
Products. By E. PROST, D.Sc. Translated by J. CRUICKSHANK 
SMITH, B.Sc. Royal 8vo. 300 pages. 44 Illustrations. Price 
12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 4d. abroad.) 

TESTING OF CHEMICAL REAGENTS FOR 
PURITY. Translated from the German of Dr. C. 
KRAUCH. Royal 8vo. 350 pages. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
13s. home ; 13s. 4d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List I. 



SHALE OILS AND TARS and their Products. By 
Dr. W. SCHEITHAUER. Translated from the German. Demy 8vo. 
190 pages. 70 Illustrations and 4 Diagrams. Price 8s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 9s. home and abroad.) 

THE BY-PRODUCTS OF COAL-GAS MANUFAC- 
TURE. By K. R. LANGE. Translated from the German. 
Crown 8vo. 164 pages. 13 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

INDUSTRIAL ALCOHOL. A Practical Manual on the 
Production and Use of Alcohol for Industrial Purposes and for 
Use as a Heating Agent, as an Illuminant and as a Source of 
Motive Power. By J. G. MC!NTOSH. Demy 8vo. 1907. 250pp. 
With 75 Illustrations and 25 Tables. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

THE UTILISATION OF WASTE PRODUCTS. A 

Treatise on the Rational Utilisation, Recovery and Treatment of 
Waste Products of all kinds. By Dr. THEODOR ROLLER. Trans- 
lated from the Second Revised German Edition. Second English 
Revised Edition. Demy 8vo. 336 pp. 22 Illustrations. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

ANALYSIS OF RESINS AND BALSAMS. Trans- 
lated from the German of Dr. KARL DIETERICH. Demy 8vo. 340 
pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

DISTILLATION OF RESINS, RESINATE LAKES 
AND PIGMENTS, CARBON PIGMENTS AND 
PIGMENTS FOR TYPEWRITING MACHINES, 
MANIFOLDERS, ETC. By VICTOR SCHWEIZER. 
DemySvo. [New Revised Edition in preparation. 

DISINFECTION AND DISINFECTANTS. By M. 

CHRISTIAN. Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 112 
pages. 18 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home 
and abroad.) 

(Agricultural Chemistry and Manures.) 

MANUAL OF AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. By 

HERBERT INGLE, F.I.C., Late Lecturer on Agricultural Chemistry, 
the Leeds University ; Lecturer in the Victoria University. 
Third and Revised Edition. 400 pp. 16 Illustrations. Demy 
8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

CHEMICAL MANURES. Translated from the French 
of J. FRITSCH. Demy 8vo. Illustrated. 340 pp. Price 10s. 6d, 
net. (Post free, 11s. home; 11s. 2d. abroad.) 

(ee ql$p Bone Products an<? M<WM&,_ f, 8.) 



10 

(Writing Inks and Sealing Waxes.) 

INK MANUFACTURE: Including Writing, Copying, 
Lithographic, Marking, Stamping and Laundry Inks. By 
SIGMUND LEHNER. Translated from the German of the Fifth 
Edition. Second Revised and Enlarged English Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 180 pages. Three Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

SEALING-WAXES, WAFERS AND OTHER 
ADHESIVES FOR THE HOUSEHOLD, OFFICE, 
WORKSHOP AND FACTORY. By H. C. STANDAGE. 
Crown 8vo. 96 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home and 
abroad.) 

(Lead Ores and Lead Compounds.) 

LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS. By THOS. LAMBERT, 
Technical and Consulting Chemist. Demy 8vo. 226 pp. Forty 
Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

NOTES ON LEAD ORES : Their Distribution and Pro- 
perties. By JAS. FAIRIE, F.G.S. Crown 8vo. 64 pages. Price 
Is. net. (Post free, Is. 4d. home and abroad.) 

(White Lead and Zinc White Paints, see p. 5.) 

(Industrial Hygiene.) 

THE RISKS AND DANGERS TO HEALTH OF 
VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS AND THEIR PRE- 
VENTION. By LEONARD A. PARRY, M.D., B.Sc. 
(Lond.). 196 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

(Industrial Uses of Air, Steam and 
Water.) 

DRYING BY MEANS OF AIR AND STEAM. Ex- 
planations, Formulae, and Tables for Use in Practice. Trans- 
lated from the German of E. HAUSBRAND. Second Revised 
English Edition. Two folding Diagrams, Thirteen Tables, and 
Two Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 76 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 
(See also " Evaporating, Condensing and Cooling Apparatus," p. 18.) 

PURE AIR, OZONE AND WATER. A Practical 

Treatise of their Utilisation and Value in Oil, Grease, Soap, Paint, 
Glue and other Industries. By W. B. COWELL. Twelve Illus- 
trations. Crown 8vo. 85 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. 
home; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books ^ see List III. 



11 

THE INDUSTRIAL USES OF WATER. COMPOSI- 
TION EFFECTSTROUBLES REMEDIES 
RESIDUARY WATERS PURIFICATION AN- 
ALYSIS. By H. DE LA Coux. Royal 8vo. Trans- 
lated from the French and Revised by ARTHUR MORRIS. 364 pp. 
135 Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 11s. home; 
11s. 6d. abroad.) 
(See Books on Smoke Prevention, Engineering and Metallurgy, p. 18.) 

(X Rays.) 

PRACTICAL X RAY WORK. By FRANK T. ADDYMAN, 

BKFA B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C., Member of the Roentgen Society of London ; 

Radiographer to St. George's Hospital ; Demonstrator of Physics 

V388 and Chemistry, and Teacher of Radiography in St. George's 

Hospital Medical School. Demy 8vo. Twelve Plates from 

Photographs of X Ray Work. Fifty-two Illustrations. 200 pp. 

Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 11s. home; 11s 2d. abroad.) 

(India= Rubber and Qutta Percha.) 

INDIA-RUBBER AND GUTTA PERCHA. Second 

English Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Based on the French 
work of T. SEELIGMANN, G. LAMY TORRILHON and H. FALCONNET 
by JOHN GEDDES MC!NTOSH. Royal 8vo. 100 Illustrations. 400 
pages. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. Id. home; 13s. 8d. 
abroad.) 

(Leather Trades.) 

THE LEATHER WORKER'S MANUAL. Being a 
Compendium of Practical Recipes and Working Formulae for 
Curriers, Bootmakers, Leather Dressers, Blacking Manufac- 
turers, Saddlers, Fancy Leather Workers. By H. C. STANDAGE. 
Demy 8vo. 165 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home 
and abroad.) 
(See also Manufacture of Shoe Polishes, Leather Dressings, etc., p. 6.) 

(Pottery, Bricks, Tiles, Glass, etc.) 

MODERN BRICKMAKING. By ALFRED B. SEARLE, 

Royal 8vo. 440 pages. 260 Illustrations. Price 12s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 13s. Id. home; 13s. 7d. abroad.) 

THE MANUAL OF PRACTICAL PITTING. Com- 
piled by Experts, and Edited by CHAS. F. BINNS. Fourth Edition, 
Revised and Enlarged. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 17s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 18s. home; 18s. 2d. abroad.) 

POTTERY DECORATING. A Description of all the Pro- 
cesses for Decorating Pottery and Porcelain. By R. HAINBACH. 
Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 250 pp. Twenty- 
two Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home 
8s. 2d. abroad.) 



A TREATISE ON CERAMIC INDUSTRIES. A 

Complete Manual for Pottery, Tile, and Brick Manufacturers. By 
EMILE BOURRY. A Revised Translation from the French, with 
some Critical Notes by ALFRED B. SEARLE. Demy 8vo. 308 
Illustrations. 460 pp. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home; 
13s. 6d. abroad.) 

ARCHITECTURAL POTTERY. Bricks, Tiles, Pipes, 

Enamelled Terra-cottas, Ordinary and Incrusted Quarries, Stone- 
ware Mosaics, Faiences and Architectural Stoneware. By LEON 
LEFEVRE. Translated from the French by K. H. BIRD, M.A., 
and W. MOORE BINNS. With Five Plates. 950 Illustrations in 
the Text, and numerous estimates. 500 pp. Royal 8vo. Price 
15s. net. (Post free, 15s. 7d. home; 16s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE ART OF RIVETING GLASS, CHINA AND 
EARTHENWARE. By J. HOWORTH. Second 
Edition. Paper Cover. Price Is. net. (By post, home or abroad, 
Is. 2d.) 

NOTES ON POTTERY CLAYS. The Distribution, 

Properties, Uses and Analyses of Ball Clays, China Clays and 
China Stone. By JAS. FAIRIE, F.G.S. 132 pp. Crown 8vo. 
Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 4s. home and abroad.) 

HOW TO ANALYSE CLAY. By H. M. ASHBY. Demy 
8vo. 72 pp. 20 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

A Reissue of 

THE HISTORY OF THE STAFFORDSHIRE POT- 
TERIES ; AND THE RISE AND PROGRESS 
OF THE MANUFACTURE OF POTTERY AND 
PORCELAIN. With References to Genuine Specimens, 
and Notices of Eminent Potters. By SIMEON SHAW. (Originally 
published in 1829.) 265 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 6d. home; 5s. lOd. abroad.) 

A Reissue of 

THE CHEMISTRY OF THE SEVERAL NATURAL 
AND ARTIFICIAL HETEROGENEOUS COM- 
POUNDS USED IN MANUFACTURING POR- 
CELAIN, GLASS AND POTTERY. By SIMEON 
SHAW. (Originally published in 1837.) 750 pp. Royal 8vo. 
Price 10s. net. (Post free, 10s. 7d. home; 11s. 6d. abroad.) 

BRITISH POTTERY MARKS. By G. WOOLLISCROFT 
RHEAD. Demy 8vo. 310 pp. With over Twelve-hundred Illus- 
trations of Marks. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home; 
8s. 4d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List III. 



13 

(Glassware, Glass Staining and Painting.) 

RECIPES FOR FLINT GLASS MAKING. By a 

British Glass Master and Mixer. Sixty Recipes. Being Leaves 
from the Mixing Book of several experts in the Flint Glass Trade, 
containing up-to-date recipes and valuable information as to 
Crystal, Demi-crystal and Coloured Glass in its many varieties. 
It contains the recipes for cheap metal suited to pressing, blow- 
ing, etc., as well as the most costly crystal and ruby. Second 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. 
home and abroad.) 

A TREATISE ON THE ART OF GLASS PAINT- 
ING. Prefaced with a Review of Ancient Glass. By 
ERNEST R. SUPPLING. With One Coloured Plate and Thirty- 
seven Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 140 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

(Paper Making and Testing.) 

THE PAPER MILL CHEMIST. By HENRY P. STEVENS, 
M.A., Ph.D., F.I.C. Royal 12mo. 60 Illustrations. 300 pp. 
Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE TREATMENT OF PAPER FOR SPECIAL 
PURPOSES. By L. E. ANDES. Translated from the 
German. Crown 8vo. 48 Illustrations. 250 pp. Price 6s. net. 
(Post free, 6s. 5d. home ; 6s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Enamelling on Metal.) 

ENAMELS AND ENAMELLING. For Enamel 

Makers, Workers in Gold and Silver, and Manufacturers of 
Objects of Art. By PAUL RANDAU. Second and Revised 
Edition. Translated from the German. With 16 Illustrations. 
Demy 8vo. 200 pp. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 11s. home; 
11s. 2d. abroad.) 

THE ART OF ENAMELLING ON METAL. By 

W. NORMAN BROWN. Second Edition, Revised. Crown Svo. 
60 pp. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

(Textile Subjects.) 

THE FINISHING OF TEXTILE FABRICS (Woollen, 

Worsted, Union, and other Cloths). By ROBERTS BEAUMONT, 
M.Sc., M.I.Mech.E. With 150 Illustrations of Fibres, Yarns 
and'- Fabrics, also Sectional and other Drawings of Finishing 
Machinery. Demy Svo. 260pp. PricelOs.6d.net. (Post free, 
11s. home; 11s. 2d. abroad.) 

STANDARD CLOTHS: Structure and Manufacture 
(General, Military and Naval). By ROBERTS BEAUMONT, M.Sc., 
M.I.Mech.E. 342 pp. Numerous Illustrations. 16 Plates in 
Monochrome and Colour. Demy Svo. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 13s. home; 13s. 4d. abroad.) 



14 

FIBRES USED IN TEXTILE AND ALLIED IN- 
DUSTRIES. By C. AINSWORTH MITCHELL, B.A. 
(Oxon.), F.I.C., and R. M. PRIDEAUX, F.I.C. With 66 Illustra- 
tions specially drawn direct from the Fibres. Demy 8vo. 
200 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

DRESSINGS AND FINISHINGS FOR TEXTILE 
FABRICS AND THEIR APPLICATION. De- 
scription of all the Materials used in Dressing Textiles : Their 
Special Properties, the preparation of Dressings and their em- 
ployment in Finishing Linen, Cotton, Woollen and Silk Fabrics. 
Fireproof and Waterproof Dressings, together with the principal 
machinery employed. Translated from the Third German 
Edition of FRIEDRICH POLLEYN. Demy 8vo. 280 pp. Sixty 
Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. 
abroad.) 

POWER-LOOM WEAVING AND YARN NUMBER- 
ING, According to Various Systems, with Conversion 
Tables. Translated from the German of ANTHON GRUNER. With 
Twenty-six Diagrams in Colours. 150 pp. Crown 8vo. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lid. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

TEXTILE RAW MATERIALS AND THEIR CON- 
VERSION INTO YARNS. (The Study of the Raw 
Materials and the Technology of the Spinning Process.) By 
JULIUS ZIPSER. Translated from German by CHARLES SALTER. 
302 Illustrations. 500 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 11s. Id. home ; 11s. 8d. abroad.) 

GRAMMAR OF TEXTILE DESIGN. By H. NISBET, 

Weaving and Designing Master, Bolton Municipal Technical 
School. Demy 8vo. 280 pp. 490 Illustrations and Diagrams. 
Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 5d. home; 6s. 8d. abroad.) 

ART NEEDLEWORK AND DESIGN. POINT 
LACE. A Manual of Applied Art for Secondary Schools 
and Continuation Classes. By M. E. WILKINSON. Oblong 
quarto. With 22 Plates. Bound in Art Linen. Price 3s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 4s. home and abroad.) 

HOME LACE-MAKING. A Handbook for Teachers and 
Pupils. By M. E. W. MILROY. Crown 8vo. 64 pp. With 3 
Plates and 9 Djagrams. [Revised Edition in preparation. 

CHURCH LACE. By M. E. W. MILROY. In preparation. 
THE CHEMISTRY OF HAT MANUFACTURING. 

Lectures delivered before the Hat Manufacturers' Association. 
By WATSON SMITH, F.C.S., F.I.C. Revised and Edited by 
ALBERT SHONK. Crown 8vo. 132 pp. 16 Illustrations. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lid. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List II. 



13 

THE TECHNICAL TESTING OF YARNS AND 
TEXTILE FABRICS. With Reference to Official 
Specifications. Translated from the German of Dr. J. HERZFELD. 
Second Edition. Sixty-nine Illustrations. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. 
Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 11s. home; 11s. 2d. abroad.) 

DECORATIVE AND FANCY TEXTILE FABRICS. 

By R. T. LORD. For Manufacturers and Designers of Carpets, 

Damask, Dress and all Textile Fabrics. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. 

132 Designs and Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

THEORY AND PRACTICE OF DAMASK WEAV- 
ING. By H. KINZER and K. WALTER. Royal 8vo. 
Eighteen Folding Plates. Six Illustrations. Translated from 
the German. 110 pp. Price 8s. 6d. net. (Post free, 9s. home ; 
9s. 2d. abroad.) 

FAULTS IN THE MANUFACTURE OF WOOLLEN 
GOODS AND THEIR PREVENTION. By 

NICOLAS REISER. Translated from the Second German Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Sixty-three Illustrations. 170 pp. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

SPINNING AND WEAVING CALCULATIONS, 

especially relating to Woollens. From the German of N. 
REISER. Thirty-four Illustrations. Tables. 160 pp. Demy 
8vo. 1904. Price 10s.6d.net. (Post free, 11s. home ; 11s. 2d. 
abroad.) 

WORSTED SPINNERS' PRACTICAL HANDBOOK. 

By H. TURNER. 148 pp. 54 Drawings. Crown 8vo. Price 6s. 
net. (Post free, 6s. 5d. home ; 6s. 6d. abroad.) 

ANALYSIS OF WOVEN FABRICS. By A. F. BARKER, 
M.Sc., and E. MIDGLEY. DemySvo. 316pp. Numerous Tables, 
Examples and 82 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home ; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

WATERPROOFING OF FABRICS. By Dr. S. MIER- 
ZINSKI. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo. 
140 pp. 29 Illus. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 
5s. 6d. abroad.) 

HOW TO MAKE A WOOLLEN MILL PAY. By 

JOHN MACKIE. Crown 8vo. 76 pp. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

YARN AND WARP SIZING IN ALL ITS 
BRANCHES. Translated from the German of CARL 
KRETSCHMAR. Royal 8vo. 123 Illustrations. 150 pp. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lls. home; 11s. 4d. abroad.) 
(For " Textile Soaps and Oils " see p. 7.) 



16 

(Dyeing, Colour Printing, Matching 
and Dye = stuffs.) 

THE COLOUR PRINTING OF CARPET YARNS. 

Manual for Colour Chemists and Textile Printers. By DAVID 
PATERSON, F.C.S. Seventeen Illustrations. 136 pp. Demy 
8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

TEXTILE COLOUR MIXING. By DAVID PATERSON, 
F.R.S.E., F.C.S. Formerly published under title of " Science of 
Colour Mixing ". Second Revised Edition. Demy 8vo. 140 pp. 
41 Illustrations, with 5 Coloured Plates and 4 Plates shov/ing 
Dyed Specimens. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home 
8s. 2d. abroad.) 

DYERS' MATERIALS : An Introduction to the Examina- 
tion, Evaluation and Application of the most important Sub- 
stances used in Dyeing, Printing, Bleaching and Finishing. By 
PAUL HEERMAN, Ph.D. Translated from the German by A. C. 
WRIGHT, M.A. (Oxon)., B.Sc. (Lond.). Twenty-four Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo. 150 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 
5s. 6d. abroad.) 

COLOUR MATCHING ON TEXTILES. A Manual 

intended for the use of Students of Colour Chemistry, Dyeing and 
Textile Printing. By DAVID PATERSON, F.C.S. Coloured Frontis- 
piece. Twenty-nine Illustrations and Fourteen Specimens Of 
Dyed Fabrics. Demy 8vo. 132 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

COLOUR : A HANDBOOK OF THE THEORY OF 
COLOUR. By GEORGE H. HURST. With Eleven 
Coloured Plates and Seventy-two Illustrations. Second Edition. 
Demy 8vo. 168 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 
8s. 2d. abroad.) 

Reissue of 

THE ART OF DYEING WOOL, SILK AND 
COTTON. Translated from the French of M. HELLOT, 
M. MACQUER and M. LE PILEUR D'APLIGNY. First Published in 
English in 1789. Six Plates. Demy 8vo. 446pp. Price5s.net. 
(Post free, 5s. 6d. home; 6s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OF DYE-STUFFS. By Dr. GEORG 
VON GEORGIEVICS. Translated from the Second German Edition. 
412 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 11s. home; 
11s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE DYEING OF COTTON FABRICS : A Practical 
Handbook for the Dyer and Student. By FRANKLIN BEECH, 
Practical Colourist and Chemist. 272 pp. Second Revised 
Edition. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 11s. home; 11s. 2d. 
abroad.) 

THE DYEING OF WOOLLEN FABRICS. By 

FRANKLIN BEECH, Practical Colourist and Chemist. Thirty- 
three Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 228 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List II. 



17 

(Silk Manufacture.) 

SILK THROWING AND WASTE SILK SPIN- 
NING. By HOLLINS RAYNER. Demy 8vo. 170 pp. 
117 Illus. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home; 5s. 8d. abroad.) 

(Bleaching and Bleaching Agents.) 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE BLEACHING 
OF LINEN AND COTTON YARN AND FABRICS. 

By L. TAILFER, Chemical and Mechanical Engineer. Trans- 
lated from the French by JOHN GEDDES MclNTOSH. Demy 8vo. 
Second Revised Edition. 370 pp. Price 15s. net. (Post free,. 
15s. 6d. home; 16s. abroad.) 

MODERN BLEACHING AGENTS AND DETER- 
GENTS. By Professor MAX BOTTLER. Translated 
from the German. Crown Svo. 16 Illustrations. 160 pages. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Cotton Spinning, Cotton Waste and 
Cotton Combing.) 

COTTON SPINNING (First Year). By THOMAS 

THORNLEY, Spinning Master, Bolton Technical School. 160 pp. 

84 Illustrations. Crown Svo. Second Impression. Price 3s. 

net. (Post free, 3s. 5d. home; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 
COTTON SPINNING (Intermediate, or Second Year). 

By T. THORNLEY. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 320 pp. 

114 Drawings. Crown Svo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. 

home; 8s. 2J. abroad.) 
COTTON SPINNING (Honours, or Third Year). By 

T. THORNLEY. 216 pp 74 Illustrations. Crown Svo. Second 

Edition. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 
COTTON COMBING MACHINES. By THOS. THORN- 

LEY, Spinning Master, Technical School, Bolton. Demy Svo. 
117 Illustrations. 300 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, Ss. 
home ; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

COTTON WASTE : Its Production, Characteristics, 
Regulation, Opening, Carding, Spinning and Weaving. By THOMAS 
THORNLEY. Demy Svo. 286 pages. 60 Illustrations. Price 7s 6d. 
net. (Post free, 8s. home; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE RING SPINNING FRAME : GUIDE FOR 
OVERLOOKERS AND STUDENTS. By N. BOOTH. 

Crown Svo. 76 pages. Price 3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 4d. home 
and abroad.) 

(Flax, Hemp and Jute Spinning.) 

MODERN FLAX, HEMP AND JUTE SPINNING 
AND TWISTING. A Practical Handbook for the use 
of Flax, Hemp and Jute Spinners, Thread, Twine and Rope 
Makers. By HERBERT R. CARTER, Mill Manager, Textile Expert 
and Engineer, Examiner in Flax Spinning to the City and Guilds of 
London Institute. Demy Svo. 1907. With 92 Illustrations. 200 
pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lid. home; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 



18 

(Collieries and Mines.) 

RECOVERY WORK AFTER PIT FIRES. By ROBERT 
LAMPRECHT, Mining Engineer and Manager. Translated from 
the German. Illustrated by Six large Plates, containing Seventy- 
six Illustrations. 175 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, lls. home; 11s. 2d. abroad.) 

VENTILATION IN MINES. By ROBERT WABNER, 
Mining Engineer. Translated from the German. Royal 8vo. 
Thirty Plates and Twenty-two Illustrations. 240 pp. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lls. home; lls. 6d. abroad.) 

THE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT OF COLLIERIES. 

By W. GALLOWAY DUNCAN and DAVID PENMAN. Demy 8vo. 
310 pp. 155 Illustrations and Diagrams. Price 10s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, lls. home; lls. 4d. abroad.) 

(Dental Metallurgy.) 

DENTAL METALLURGY: MANUAL FOR STU- 
DENTS AND DENTISTS. By A. B. GRIFFITHS, 

Ph.D. Demy 8vo. Thirty-six Illustrations. 200 pp. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

(Engineering and Metallurgy.) 

THE PREVENTION OF SMOKE. Combined with 
the Economical Combustion of Fuel. By W. C. POPPLEWELL, 
M.Sc., A.M. Inst., C.E., Consulting Engineer. Forty-six Illus- 
trations. 190 pp. Demy Svo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

GAS AND COAL DUST FIRING. A Critical Review 

of the Various Appliances Patented in Germany for this purpose 
since 1885. By ALBERT PUTSCH. 130 pp. Demy Svo. Trans- 
lated from the German. With 103 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE HARDENING AND TEMPERING OF STEEL 
IN THEORY AND PRACTICE. By FRIDOLIN 
REISER. Translated from the German of the Third Edition. 
Crown Svo. 120 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home and 
abroad.) 

SIDEROLOGY: THE SCIENCE OF IRON (The 

Constitution of Iron Alloys and Slags). Translated from 
German of HANNS FREIHERR v. JUPTNER. 350 pp. Demy Svo. 
Eleven Plates and Ten Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, lls. home; lls. 4d. abroad.) 

EVAPORATING, CONDENSING AND COOLING 
APPARATUS. Explanations, Formulae and Tables 
for Use in Practice. By E. HAUSBRAND, Engineer. Translated 
by A. C. WRIGHT, M.A. (Oxon.), B.Sc. (Lond.). With Twenty- 
one Illustrations and Seventy-six Tables. Second English Edition. 
Revised with Conversion Diagrams for Converting from Metric to 
British Units. 400 pp. Demy Svo. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
13s. home; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see Lists II and III. 



(The " Broadway" Series of Engineering 
Handbooks.) 

Uniform in Size: Narrow Crown 8vo. (Pocket Size.) 
VOLUME I. ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF RE- 
INFORCED CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION. By 

EWART S. ANDREWS, B.Sc. Eng. (Lond.). 200 pages. With 57 
Illustrations. Numerous Tables and Worked Examples. Price 
3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 5d. home ; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 

VOLUME II. GAS AND OIL ENGINES. By A. 
KIRSCHKE. Translated and Revised from the German, and 
adapted to British practice. 160 pages. 55 Illustrations. 
Price 3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 5d. home ; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 

VOLUME III. IRON AND STEEL CONSTRUC- 
TIONAL WORK. By K. SCHINDLER. Translated 
and Revised from the German, and adapted to British practice. 
140 pages. 115 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post iree, 
3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME IV. TOOTHED GEARING. By G. T.. WHITE, 
B.Sc. (Lond.). 220 pages. 136 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME V. STEAM TURBINES : Their Theory and 
Construction. By H. WILDA. Translated from the German ; 
Revised and adapted to British practice. 200 pages. 104 Illustra- 
tions. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME VI. CRANES AND HOISTS. Their Construc- 
tion and Calculation. By H. WILDA. Translated from the German ; 
revised and adapted to British practice. 168 pages. 399 Illustra- 
tions. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home; 4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME VII. FOUNDRY MACHINERY. By E. 
TREIBER. Translated from the German ; revised and adapted to 
British practice. 148 pages. 51 Illustrations. Price3s.6d.net. 
(Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME VIII. MOTOR CAR MECHANISM. By 
W. E. DOMMETT, Wh.Ex., A.M.I.A.E. 200 pages. 102 Illustra- 
tions. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home; 4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME IX. ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF 
ILLUMINATION AND ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING. 

By A. BLOK, B.Sc. 240 pages. 124 Illustrations and Diagrams 
and 1 Folding Plate. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. 
home ; 4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME X. H YD R A ULI C S. By E. H. SPRAGUE, 
A.M.I.C.E. 190 pages. With Worked Examples and 89 Illustra- 
tions. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME XI. ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF 
SURVEYING. By M. T. M. ORMSBY, M.I. C.E.I. 
244 pages. With Worked Examples and 135 Illustrations and 
Diagrams, including 4 Folding Plates. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 
4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

VOLUME XII. THE SCIENCE OF WORKS MANAGE- 
MENT. By JOHN BATEY. 232 pages. Price 4s. net. 
(Post free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 



20 

VOLUME XIII. THE CALCULUS FOR ENGINEERS. 

By EVVART S. ANDREWS, B.Sc.Eng. (Lond.), and H. BRYON 
HEYWOOD, D.Sc. (Paris), B.Sc. (Lond.). 284 pages. 102 Illustra- 
tions. With Tables and Worked Examples. Price 4s. net. (Post 
free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

VOLUME XIV. LATHES: Their Construction and 
Operation. By G. W. BURLEY, A.M.I.M.E., Wh.Ex. 244 pages. 
200 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home; 
4s. abroad.) 

VOLUME XV. STEAM BOILERS AND COMBUS- 
TION. By JOHN BATEY. 220 pages. 18 Diagrams. 
Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. home; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

VOLUME XVI. REINFORCED CONCRETE IN PRAC- 
TICE. By A. ALBAN H. SCOTT, M.S.A., M.C.I. 190 pp. 

130 Illustrations and Diagrams and 2 Folding Plates. Price 4s. 
net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

VOLUME XVII. STABILITY OF MASONRY. By 
E. H. SPRAGUE, A.M.I.C.E. 180 pp. 92 Illustrations. 3 Folding 
Plates and Worked Examples. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. 
home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

VOLUME XVIII. TESTING OF MACHINE TOOLS. 
By G. W. BURLEY, Wh.Ex., A.M.I. M.E. 240 pp. 110 Illustra- 
tions. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

VOLUME XIX. BRIDGE FOUNDATIONS. By W. 
BURNSIDE, M.I.C.E. 148pp. 31 Diagrams. Price4s.net. (Post 
free, 4s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

VOLUME XX. THE STABILITY OF ARCHES. By 

E. H. SPRAGUE, A.M.I.C.E. 150 pp. 58 Diagrams. 5 Folding 
Plates. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. home; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 
VOLUME XXI. ELEMENTARY MATHEMATICS 
FOR ENGINEERS. By E. H. SPRAGUE, A.M.I.C.E. 
236 pp. 101 Diagrams. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 4d. home; 
4s. 6d. abroad.) 

[IN PREPARATION.] 

CALCULATIONS FOR STEEL FRAME STRUCTURES. By W. C. COCKING. M.C.I. 

DRIVING OF MACHINE TOOLS. By T. R. SHAW. 

DESIGN OF MACHINE ELEMENTS (in 2 Volumes). By W. G. DUNKLEY. 

ELEMENTS OF GRAPHIC STATICS. By E. H. SPRAGUE, A.M.I.C.E. 

STRENGTH OF STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS. By E H. SPRAGUE, A.M.I.C.E. 

GEAR CUTTING. By G. W. BURLEY, Wh.Ex., A.M.I M.E. 

MOVING LOADS BY INFLUENCE LINES AND OTHER METHODS. By E. H. 

SPRAGUE, A M.I.C.E. 

DRAWING OFFICE PRACTICE. By W. CLEGG. 
ESTIMATING STEELWORK FOR BUILDINGS. By B. P. F. GLEED and S. 

BVLANDER, M C.I. 

THE THEORY OF THE CENTRIFUGAL AND TURBO PUMP. By J. WELLS 

CAMERON. 

STRENGTH OF SHIPS. By JAMES BERTRAM THOMAS. 
MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE. By G. W. BURLEY, Wh.Ex., A.M.I. M.E. 
IRON AND STEEL. By J. S. GLEN PRIMROSE. 
ELECTRIC TRACTION. By H. M. SAVERS. 
PRECISION GRINDING MACHINES. By T. R. SHAW. 

For contents of these books, see List III. 



21 

(Sanitary Plumbing, Metal Work, etc.) 

EXTERNAL PLUMBING WORK. A Treatise on 
Lead Work for Roofs. By JOHN W. HART, R.P.C. 180 Illustra- 
tions. 272 pp. Demy 8vo. Second Edition Revised. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free. 8s. home; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

HINTS TO PLUMBERS ON JOINT WIPING, PIPE 
BENDING AND LEAD BURNING. Third Edition, 
Revised and Corrected. By JOHN V/. HART, R.P.C. 184 Illus- 
trations. 313 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home ; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

SANITARY PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE. By 

JOHN W. HART. Demy 8vo. With 208 Illustrations. 250 pp. 
1904. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 
THE PRINCIPLES OF HOT WATER SUPPLY. By 

JOHN W. HART, R.P.C. With 129 Illustrations. 177 pp. Demy 
8vo. Price 7s. 6d net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF DIPPING, 
BURNISHING, LACQUERING AND BRONZ- 
ING BRASS WARE. By W. NORMAN BROWN. 

Revised and Enlarged Edition. Crown 8vo. 48 pp. Price 
3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

A HANDBOOK ON JAPANNING. For Ironware, 
Tinware, and Wood, etc. By WILLIAM NORMAN BROWN. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 70 pages. 13 Illustrations. Price 
3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

SHEET METAL WORKING. Cutting, Punching, 

Bending, Folding, Pressing, Drawing and Embossing Metals, 
with Machinery for same. By F. GEORGI and A. SCHUBERT. 
Translated from the German. Demy 8vo. 160 pages. 125 Draw- 
ings and Illustrations. 2 Folding Plates. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

(Electric Wiring, etc.) 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INCANDESCENT 
ELECTRIC LAMP. By G. BASIL BARHAM, A.M.I. E.E. 
Demy 8vo. 200 pages. 2 Plates, 25 Illustrations and 10 Tables. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 8d. abroad.) 

WIRING CALCULATIONS FOR ELECTRIC 
LIGHT AND POWER INSTALLATIONS. A 

Practical Handbook containing Wiring Tables, Rules, and 
Formulae for the Use of Architects, Engineers, Mining Engineers, 
and Electricians, Wiring Contractors and Wiremen, etc. By G. 
W. LUMMIS PATERSON. Crown 8vo. 96 pages. 35 Tables. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 
ELECTRIC WIRING AND FITTING. By SYDNEY F. 
WALKER, R.N., M.I.E.E., M.I.Min.E., A.M.Inst.C.E., etc., etc. 
Crown 8vo. 150 pp. W r ith Illustrations and Tables. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 



22 

(Brewing and Botanical.) 

HOPS IN THEIR BOTANICAL, AGRICULTURAL 
AND TECHNICAL ASPECT, AND AS AN 
ARTICLE OF COMMERCE. By EMMANUEL GROSS. 
Translated from the German. 78 Illus. 340pp. Demy 8vo. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lls. home ; 11s 4d. abroad.) 

INSECTICIDES, FUNGICIDES AND WEED- 
KILLERS. By E. BOURCART, D.Sc. Translated from 
the French. Revised and Adapted to British Standards and 
Practice. Demy Svo. 450 pages, 83 Tables, and 12 Illustrations. 
Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 4d. abroad.) 
(For Agricultural Chemistry, see p. 9.) 

(Wood Products, Timber and Wood Waste.) 

WOOD PRODUCTS : DISTILLATES AND EX- 
TRACTS. By P. DUMESNY, Chemical Engineer, 
Expert before the Lyons Commercial Tribunal, Member of the 
International Association of Leather Chemists; and J. NOYER. 
Translated from the French by DONALD GRANT. Royal Svo. 
320 pp. 103 Illustrations and Numerous Tables. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lls. Id home; lls. 8d. abroad.) 

TIMBER : A Comprehensive Study of Wood in all its 
Aspects (Commercial and Botanical), showing the different 
Applications and Uses of Timber in Various Trades, etc. Trans- 
lated from the French of PAUL CHARPENTIER. Royal Svo. 437 
pp. 178 Illustrations. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 
13s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE UTILISATION OF WOOD WASTE. Trans- 
lated from the German of E. HUBBARD. Second Revised English 
Edition. Crown Svo. 20S pp. 50 Illus. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(See also Utilisation of Waste Products, p. 9.) 

(Building and Architecture.) 

ORNAMENTAL CEMENT WORK. By OLIVER 

WHEATLEY. Demy Svo. 83 Illustrations. 128 pp. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE PREVENTION OF DAMPNESS IN BUlliD- 
INGS ; with Remarks on the Causes, Nature and 
Effects of Saline, Efflorescences and Dry-rot, for Architects, 
Builders, Overseers, Plasterers, Painters and House Owners. 
By ADOLF WILHELM KEIM. Translated from the German of the 
Second Revised Edition. Eight Coloured Plates and Thirteen 
Illustrations. Crown Svo. 115 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 
5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL TERMS USED IN 
ARCHITECTURE AND BUILDING, AND THEIR 
ALLIED TRADES AND SUBJECTS. By AUGUS- 
TINE C. PASSMORE. Demy 8vo. 380 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 4d. abroad.) _^ 

For contents of these books, see List III. 



(Foods, Drugs and Sweetmeats.) 

FOOD AND DRUGS. By E. J. PARRY, B.Sc., F.I.C., F.C.S. 
Volume I. The Analysis of Food and Drugs (Chemical and 

Microscopical). Royal 8vo. 724 pp. Price 21s. net. (Post 

free, 21s. 7d. home ; 22s. 6d. British Colonies; 23s. 3d. other 

Foreign Countries.) 
Volume II. The Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, 1875-1907. 

Royal 8vo. 184 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 

8s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF PRESERVED FOODS 
AND SWEETMEATS. By A. HAUSNER. With 
Twenty-eight Illustrations. Translated from the German of the 
third enlarged Edition. Second English Edition. Crown 8vo. 225 
pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lid. home; 8s. abroad.) 

RECIPES FOR THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT, 
VEGETABLES AND MEAT. By E. WAGNER. 
Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 125 pp. With 14 
Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. 
abroad.) 

(Dyeing Fancy Goods.) 

THE ART OF DYEING AND STAINING MARBLE, 
ARTIFICIAL STONE, BONE, HORN, IVORY 
AND WOOD, AND OF IMITATING ALL SORTS 
OF WOOD. A Practical Handbook for the Use of 

Joiners, Turners, Manufacturers of Fancy Goods, Stick and 
Umbrella Makers, Comb Makers, etc. Translated from the 
German of D. H. SOXHLET, Technical Chemist. Crown 8vo. 
168 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Celluloid.) 

CELLULOID : Its Raw Material, Manufacture, Properties 
and Uses. A Handbook for Manufacturers of Celluloid and 
Celluloid Articles, and all Industries using Celluloid ; also for 
Dentists and Teeth Specialists. By Dr. Fr. BOCKMANN, Tech- 
nical Chemist. Translated from the Third Revised German 
Edition. Crown 8vo. 120 pp. With 49 Illustrations. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Lithography, Printing and 
Engraving. ) 

ART OF LITHOGRAPHY. By H. J. RHODES. Demy 
8vo. 344 pages. 120 Illustrations. 2 Folding Plates. Copious 
combined Index and Glossary. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
11s. home ; Us. 4d. Abroad.) 



24 

PRINTERS' AND STATIONERS' READY 
RECKONER AND COMPENDIUM. Compiled by 
VICTOR GRAHAM. Crown 8 vo. 112pp. 1904. Price3s.6d.net. 
(Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

ENGRAVING FOR ILLUSTRATION. HISTORI- 
CAL AND PRACTICAL NOTES. By J. KIRKBRIDE. 

72 pp. Two Plates and 6 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Price 
2s. 6d. net. (Post free, 2s. lOd. home and abroad.) 
(For Printing Inks, see p. 4.) 

(Bookbinding.) 

PRACTICAL BOOKBINDING. By PAUL ADAM. 
Translated from .ne German. Crown 8vo. 180pp. 127 Illus- 
trations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Sugar Refining.) 

THE TECHNOLOGY OF SUGAR : Practical Treatise 
on the Modern Methods of Manufacture of Sugar from the Sugar 
Cane and Sugar Beet. By JOHN GEDDES MC!NTOSH. Third Edi- 
tion, Revised and Enlarged. Demy Svo. 540 pages. 244 Illustra- 
tions. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

(See "Evaporating, Condensing, etc., Apparatus," />. 18.) 

(Emery.) 

EMERY AND THE EMERY INDUSTRY. Trans- 
lated from the German of A. HAENIG. Crown Svo. 45 Illus. 
104 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 



(Technical Schools.' 



HANDBOOK TO THE TECHNICAL AND ART 
SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES OF THE UNITED 
KINGDOM. Containing particulars of nearly 1,000 
Technical, Commercial and Art Schools throughout the United 
Kingdom. With full particulars of the courses of instruction, 
names of principals, secretaries, etc. Demy Svo. 150pp. Price 
3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 4s. home and abroad.) 



SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON 

(E. GREENWOOD, PROPRIETOR), 
TECHNICAL BOOK AND TRADE JOURNAL PUBLISHERS, 

8 BROADWAY, LUDGATE, LONDON, E.G. 

Telegraphic Address. " Printeries, Cent., London ". February, 1917. 



THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE 
STAMPED BELOW 



AN INITIAL FINE OF 25 CENTS 

WILL BE ASSESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN 
THIS BOOK ON THE DATE DUE. THE PENALTY 
WILL INCREASE TO SO CENTS ON THE FOURTH 
DAY AND TO $1.OO ON THE SEVENTH DAY 
OVERDUE. 







19 I 


940 


f& *lft(* 




$61 3 




7 SJnf'^lt/lif 




i\jA\\\ u<iyyy 

AU6191953 LU 


























































LD 21-100w-7 ; '39(402s) 



5156' 



380653 




UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



UC-NRLF 



$B 57b E7Q 



I ! I 



I * < *,, II 



/. r,^ i- 



4f% 



RECIPES FOR THE PRESERVING OF 
FRUIT, VEGETABLES, AND MEAT 



RECIPES FOR 

THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

VEGETABLES, AND MEAT 



E. WAGNEB 



TECHNICAL MANAGER OF THE PRESBRVINQ AND MARMALADE DEPARTMENTS 
OF THE TRACHENBERO BUOAR BOILING ^ORKB 



TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN 
By CHAS. SALTER 



WITH FOURTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS 



SCOTT, GEEENWOOD & SON 
8 BROADWAY, LUDGATE HILL, E.G. 



CANADA : THE COPP CLARK CO. LTD., TORONTO 
UNITED STATES : D. VAN N08TRAND CO., NEW YORK 

1908 

[The sole right of Translation into English rests loith Scott, Greenwood ds Son] 




^' 



2? 



y 



PREFACE 



It has been long the desire of the author to bring 
out a larger useful work on the preserving industry 
in its present state, but the continued introduction 
of improvements in the last few years prevented 
an exhaustive report being drawn up. At present, 
however, we may be said to have reached a certain 
degree of stability, at least so far as the important 
matter of stoppers and closing devices is concerned. 

The author has therefore, on the basis of his 
practical experience of over thirty years' duration, 
endeavoured in the present work to provide 
instruction for both the beginner and the expert. 

The points dealt with comprise the recipes and 
instructions for preserving, and the necessary 
utensils and machinery, the work being divided 
into three parts: the first deaUng with the 
preserving of fruit, the second with that of 
vegetables, and the third with preserved meat. 

V 

380G5r 



vi PREFACE 

In all recipes the weights have been given in 
order to minimise the chance of error, and also 
to enable beginners to work according to instruc- 
tions. 

It is also hoped that the book will be of service 
as an advisor and work of reference to preserve- 
makers and their managers; and if this result be 
attained, the author will have the gratification of 
feeling that he has supplied a genuine need. 

THE AUTHOR. 
1906. 



CONTENTS 



pabt I. preserved fruits. 



Preserved Fruits ... 3 

Green Almonds ... 5 

Gooseberries .... 6 

Garden Strawberries . . 7 

Wild Strawberries . . . 8 

Currants .... 8 

Unstoned Cherries . . 8 

Stoned Cherries ... 9 
Unstoned Mahaleb (Scented) 

Black (Unskinned) Nuts . 9 
White Nuts .... 10 
Apricots cut in Halves and 

Skinned .. . . .11 
Unskinned Apricots cut in 

Halves . . . .11 
Whole Apricots . . .11 
Mirabelle (Small Yellow) 

Plums . . . .12 
Greengages . . . .12 
Whole Pears . . . .13 
Halvied Pears . . .14 
Cornelian Cherries . . 14 
Peaches (Halved) . . .15 
Peaches (Whole) ... 15 

Quinces 16 

Roseberries . . . .16 
Skinned Plums . . .17 
Raspberries . . . .18 
Blackberries . . . .18 
Bill)erries . . . .18 
Cranberries . . . .18 

Figs 19 

Melons 20 

Apples 20 

Genoa Oranges, Green and 

Yellow .... 21 
Cliestnuts . . . .21 
Angelica . . . .22 
Mixed Fruit .... 22 
Pineapple . . . .23 
Plums in Vinegar . . .23 
Cherries in Vinegar . . 24 

Canned Fruit. 

Gooseberries .... 25 
Strawberries, Uncooked . 25 



Currants 

Dark Cherries with the Stones 

in 

Light Cherries with the Stones 

in 

Stoned Cherries . 
Mahaleb or Scented Cherries . 
Pears, Whole or in Halves . 
Apricots, cut into Halves 
Apricots, Whole Fruit . 
Skinned Apricots . 
Small Yellow (Mirabelle) 

Plums .... 



Peaches, Whole or Halved 
Late Plums, Unstoned . 
Preserved Rhubarb 
Bilberries 



PAOB 

26 

26 

26 
26 
27 
27 

27 

28 
28 

28 
29 
29 
29 
30 
30 



Glazed and Candied Fruits 

Glazing Fruit ... 33 
Candied Fruit . . .35 
Blue Plums .... 36 
Glazed Chestnuts . . .37 
Glazed Pineapple Slices . 39 
Crystallised Strawberries . 40 
Mustarda . . . .40 

Marmalades, Jams, and 
Fruit Juices. 

Strawberry Marmalade . . 45 

Raspberry Marmalade . . 45 

Currant Marmalade . . 45 

Scented Cherry Marmalade . 46 

Cherry Marmalade . . 46 

Greengage Marmalade . 46 

Late Plum Marmalade . . 46 

Peach Marmalade . . .46 

Roseberry Marmalade . . 46 

Apricot Marmalade (Best) . 46 
Apricot Marmalade (Second 

Quality) .... 47 

Steeped Plums . . .47 

Apple Marmalade . 47 

English Orange Marmalade . 47 

Tomato Marmalade . . 48 

Apricot Jam . . . .48 



vin 



CONTENTS 



Gooseberry Jam . 
Red Currant Jam . 
Raspberry Jam 
Strawberry Jam . 
Cherry Jam . 
Morella Cherry Jam 
Bilberry Jam 
Blackberry Jam . 



PAGE 

. 48 

. 49 

. 49 

. 49 

. 49 

. 50 

. 50 

, -_ . . 50 

Strawberry and Gooseberry 

Jam 52 

Plum Jam . . . .52 
Raspberry and Red Currant 

Jam 52 

Pineapple Jam . . .52 

Fruit Jellies. 
Apple Jelly . . . .55 
Quince Jelly . . . .55 



Currant Jelly 
Raspberry JeUy 
Strawberry Jelly 
Cranberry Jelly 
Blackberry Jelly 
Apricot Jelly 
Peach Jelly . 
Raspberry Juice 
Strawberry Juice 
Cherry Juice . 
Lemon Syrup 
Orange Syrup 
Pineapple Juice 
Fruit Pulp for Ices 
Citron Peel and 

Peel . 
Orange Peel . 
Neutralin 



Orange 



PAOB 

. 56 

. 56 

. 56 

. 56 

. 56 

. 56 

. 56 

. 67 

. 68 

. 68 

. 69 

. 69 

. 60 
61 

62 
65 
66 



Part II. PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 



General Remarks 

Asparagus 

Peas 

Beans . 

Flageolet Beans 

Sliced Beans . 

French Beans 

Carrots . 

Spinach . 

Artichokes . 

Tomatoes 

Mixed Vegetables (Macedoine) 

Tinned Julienne . 



71 
78 
80 
85 
85 
86 
86 
88 
89 
89 
90 
92 
92 



Leipzig All-Sorts . 
Celery Chunks 
Mushrooms .... 
Edible Boletus 

Morels, Orange Agaric (Lact- 
arium), Chanterelles, etc. . 
Pickled Mushrooms 

Truffles 

Pickled Gherkins (Comichons) 
Salted Gherkins . 
Gherkins in Mustard 
Mixed Pickles 
Piccalilli .... 



94 

94 
95 
95 
96 
96 
97 



Part III. PRESERVED MEATS. 



Preserved Meats . . . 103 
Veal Cutlets . . . .104 
Veal Cutlets and Peas . . 104 
Fricandeau of Veal and Rolled 

Veal 105 

Roast Veal . . . .105 
VealGoulasch . . .105 
Calf s Head en Tortue . . 106 
Servian Rice Meat . . . 106 
BeefGoulasch . . .106 
Bouillon Meat . . .107 
Roast Beef . . . .107 
Roast Beef and Onions or 

Sardines .... 108 
Steak and Potatoes . . 108 
Hungarian Sirloin . . . 108 
Sz^kely Goulasch . . .108 



Ox Tongue with Pur^e of 

Peas or Sauerkraut . . 109 
Ribs of Pork and Sauerkraut 109 
Vienna Sausage and Sauer- 



kraut. 
Beef (I la Mode 
Roast Hare and Macaroni 
Roast Venison 
Roast Wild Boar . 
Mutton and Cabbage . 
Ox Tongue 



Savoury Paste (Appetit-Pain) 113 



Beef Paste 
Hare Paste . 
Venison Paste 
Game Paste . 
Foie Gras Paste 
Index . 



109 
110 
110 
111 
111 
111 
112 



113 
114 
114 
114 
115 
117 



r 



PART I. 
PRESERVED FRUITS 



PRESERVED FRUITS. 

For simplicity this section will be divided into  
stewed fruits in bottles and tins ; candied fruits ; 
fruit juices and pulps; jellies and marmalades. 
The manufacture of citron, orange peel, etc., is dealt 
with separately. 

The first point to be observed is that the best 
utensils for boiling fruit are shallow copper or 
enamelled pans, about 18 inches across, 4 inches 
deep, and fitted with two handles. The fruit syrup 
for candied fruit is preferably stored in stoneware 
jars, or deep earthenware dishes, glazed inside, and 
holding about 20 lb. These must be kept in a 
good, dry cellar, whereas a cool room on the ground 
floor is sufficient for bottled fruit. 

Steam-heating is the best for preserving, though 
fairly large quantities can be boiled over a coke 
fire. A few coke fires are also required for 
certain purposes, even when steam-heated plant is 
employed. 

The manufacture of patent stoppers for glass 
vessels has now reached such a state of perfection 
that one or other of the various kinds on the 
market {e.g. the " Phoenix " or " Le Cachet ") should 
invariably be used. They are fixed in position by 



/' 4.;-  '.": "T^E P.RJSSERVING OF FRUIT 

a machine, supplied by the makers, and make a 
perfectly tight joint, besides being easy to open. 

The sterilising process is performed in an iron 
tank, fitted with a steam coil (Fig. 1) and an over- 
lying grating, on which rest the wooden crates 
containing the bottles. A steam closet (Fig. 2), 
heated by direct steam, may also be used for this 
purpose. 
\ The fruit is filled into the bottles by girls or 
women armed with long-handled wooden knives 
or brass forks. 




Jj'lG. 1. 



The clarified syrup should have a density of 25. 

Bottled fruits should always be sterilised for 
10 minutes, from the tiine boiling-point is reached, 
in the case of ^-bottles, 12 minutes for ^-bottles, 
and 15 minutes for full-size bottles. Only in the 
case of halved apricots, peaches, and similar fruits 
that lie closely together, should a few minutes 
extra be allowed. 

Fruits that change colour when heated (e.g, white 
pears, peaches, and gooseberries) should be separated 
after sterilisiug, in order to accelerate cooling. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 



Qreen Almonds. 

The fruit, gathered at the proper time, is partially 
freed from the adhering skin, and then boiled for 
several minutes in the proportion of 11 lb. of fruit 




Fig. 2.  Steam closet. 

to a gallon of water (containing 9 oz. of carbonate 
of soda). As soon as the skins have loosened, the 
fruit is quickly turned into cold water, cleaned, and 
laid in fresh water. In the evening the almonds 
are placed in a copper pan containing boiling water. 



6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

about ^ a pint of vinegar, and a handful of salt, 
the whole being stirred up and the steam turned 
ofif. 

Next day the almonds are blanched in the same 
water, but raised to the boil very slowly, the fruit 
then regaining its original green colour. Boiling 
takes lJ-2 hours, according to quality. After 
cooling in repeated changes of water, the almonds 
are punctured with needles and immersed in sugar 
of 18 density. For compote the density is in- 
creased to 28 by four treatments, and the fruit 
is packed with fresh sugar. 

. In the case of syrup fruit, which is inspissated 
to 38, an addition of 50 per cent, of syrup is given 
to prevent candying. 

Gooseberries. 

Only the large green kinds are suitable for 
preserving. The fruit is gathered when full grown, 
but still quite hard, " topped," and nicked with a 
cross cut, not too deep. When a sufficient quantity 
has been treated in this way, it is put into a 
shallow copper pan containing boiUng water, with 
a little salt and vinegar, the pan being taken off 
the fire at once and placed on one side. 

Next day the fruit is carefully heated in the 
same pan over a slow fire and gently stirred with 
the skimming spoon, until the gooseberries rise to 
the surface, whereupon- they are taken off the fire 
and cooled with a plentiful flow of water. When 
cold, place in cold 20 sugar, the next day 



PRESERVED FRUITS 7 

in 22 sugar, the third day in 24 sugar, and the 
fourth day in 28 sugar, this time heating the 
fruit and sugar slowly and with care, whereupon 
the green colour will reappear. When cold, the 
berries are bottled with fresh sugar. 

Garden Strawberries. 

So-called " transparent " strawberries are obtained 
by the following method: Large, firm fruit is 
separated from the stalks, washed and placed on 
hair sieves, 10 lb. at a time. Five lb. of best 
sugar are dissolved in a corresponding quantity of 
water, mixed with an equal amount of syrup and 
a few drops of acetic acid, and boiled until a skin 
forms. The fruit is then added and boiled for 
about 10 minutes over a low fire, with continued 
shaking, until the fruit looks clear. Then skim 
and set aside to cool, afterwards return to the fire, 
boil up, skim and recool. Colouring is added after 
the first boiling. A little water must be sprinkled 
in at each boiling, in order to keep the density of 
the syrup down to 32 when finished. 

Another method of preserving strawberries is to 
dissolve a suitable quantity of sugar to a solution 
of 32 density, colouring it with fruit red. A flat 
copper or enamelled pan is half-filled with the 
cleaned fruit, and sufficient syrup to cover it. The 
pan is placed on the fire and the contents raised 
to boiling, with continued shaking, then taken off 
and skimmed. After several hours the pan is put 
on the fire again, boiled and skimmed, and this 



8 THE. PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

operation is repeated until the syrap has thickened 
sufiBcientlj. If properly managed, a batch of fruit 
can be finished in one day. For bottling it is 
preferable to use fresh, coloured sjrrup, the other 
being utilised for strawberry syrup. 

WUd Strawberries. 

Dry, very ripe wild strawberries are picked over, 
placed in flat enamel pans, and covered with boiling, 
coloured sugar of 30 density. After cooling, the 
whole is heated to boiling, skimmed, and recooled. 

The fruit is bottled with the same sugar, with 
the aid of a perforated spoon, care being taken to 
have the fruit and sugar in the right proportions. 

Currants. 

Large berries are taken, carefully separated from 
the stalks, and placed in a shallow pan, boiling, 
red-stained sugar of 30 strength being pouied over 
them. At the end of several hours the whole is 
gradually raised to the boil, skimmed, and allowed 
to cool before bottling. 

Unstoned Cherries. 

Hard, dark-coloured cherries are separated from 
their stalks, and heated in water, with continued 
stirring, until the stones have somewhat loosened 
without the fruit bursting. Remove quickly, and 
place in hot 18 sugar. When cold, bottle with 
the same sugar, diluted to 15 and filtered. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 



Stoned Cherries. 



Large, white-heart cherries are used, the colour 
having been improved by sulphuring them over- 
night. After stoning, the fruit is blanched by 
strong ebullition, and as soon as nearly soft, is 
treated with sufficient new-red to impart a . fine 
colour. It is then placed in red-stained sugar 
(20) and left all night, covered over with paper. 
Next day concentrate to 28, in stages of 3, and 
boil to a finish. 

In bottling, take care that the hollows of the 
fruit are filled with sugar to prevent the top layer 
of fruit from becoming dry after evaporation. 

Unstoned Mahaleb (Scented) Cherries. 

The darker kinds are used for bottling. The 
treatment is the same as for ordinary cherries 
with the stones in. 



Black (Unskinned) Nuts. 

The time for preserving these is July. The nuts 
should not offer the slightest resistance at the tips 
when cut with a knife, though they must be properly 
developed. The nuts are pricked all over with 
stout needles, and placed in a tub of water, where 
they are left for 10-14 days, the water being 
changed daily. 

They are next blanched with plenty of water in 
large pans, this taking about 2 hours, so that they 



lo THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

no longer stick to an inserted needle, after which 
they are carefully moistened. 

The sugar used on the first day should be cold 
and of 15 density, being concentrated to 18, and 
recooled for use on the second day. This concentra- 
tion is repeated (3) daily, the sugar being always 
used cold and the nuts kept in a cool place. When 
28 is reached the sugar is poured on hot, and the 
nuts lightly boiled up with it. 

Pack with fresh sugar, placing a small packet of 
cloves and cinnamon in the bottle. If the nuts are 
to be kept in storage receptacles for subsequent 
use, they should be placed in sugar overnight, and 
put into gallon jars with hot sugar (28), then 
fastened down and stewed for J an hour in a water- 
bath. 

White Nuts. 

Only the largest and finest nuts should be used, 
the common sorts being left alone. 

In peeling, cut off sufficient at top and bottom to 
reveal the white flesh ; then finish peeling with 
eight to ten circular cuts, and place in water contain- 
ing " neutralin " {q.v.). When a sufficient quantity 
has been done, they are slowly blanched in a bright 
pan, in water containing a little citric acid, until 
the nuts will no longer stick to the needle. The 
work must be very carefully done, and only a 
copper or enamelled earthenware vessel used. The 
further treatment is the same as for black nuts, 
and must be slowly and carefully performed to 
prevent wrinkling. 



PRESERVED FRUITS ii 

In packing into glasses, the nuts are taken out 
of the first sugar, mixed with fresh (25) sugar, 
and stewed for J an hour on a water-bath. 

Apricots cut in Halves and Skinned. 

Early apricots that are still hard, though already- 
yellow, are cut in halves, skinned by hand, and laid 
in water containing a little heutralin. They are then 
heated, with constant stirring and repeated additions 
of water, until the fruit rises to the surface, where- 
upon they are taken out and cooled. Later on place 
them in sugar of 24 density, and the next day 
pack with fresh sugar (25), and sterilise. 

Unskinned Apricots cut in Halves. 

The fruit must first be preserved in gallon jars. 
The ripe, but not overripe, apricots are divided, 
packed closely into gallon jars, and covered with 
sugar (34). The jars are then closed, immersed 
in boiling water for | an hour, thoroughly 
cooled, and put into store. 

In four to six weeks the fruit will have become 
sufficiently saturated with the sugar solution to 
be ready for bottling. Sugar of 25 density is 
used for this purpose, and the bottles are placed 
in hot water as usual. 

Whole Apricots. 

The whole apricots are pricked with needles 
and preserved in gallon' jars as above, being after- 



12 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

wards bottled. They may, however, be prepared 
for immediate bottling by sulphuring the fruit, 
blanching it carefully in water, and then treating 
several times with sugar. 

Nevertheless, the former method is preferable 
when working on a large scale, since it enables 
large quantities of fruit to be dealt with at a 
time, the troublesome operation of packing being 
deferred imtil later. 

Mirabelle (Small YeUow) Plums. 

The plums are pricked in a machine, then 
placed in a large quantity of water containing 
a little powdered burnt alum, and slowly heated 
to boiling with constant stirring. As soon as they 
begin to float and crack, they must be taken out 
and placed in cold water. When cold, place them 
in 20"" sugar, concentrate to 20", and bottle with 
fresh sugar. 

Greengages. 

The true, round green fruit, fully grown but still 
firm, is pricked in a machine after the stalks 
have been removed, and put into a large tub with 
fresh water. 

In the evening, water containing a handful of 
salt and a suitable quantity of vinegar, is boiled 
in a large copper pan, the drained fruit is put in, 
and the steam turned off. The fruit is covered 
with a suitable plate of copper, care being taken 
that there is enough water in the pan to overtop 



PRESERVED FRUITS 13 

this cover by about 4 inches, this being the only 
way in which the uppermost fruit can be prevented 
from becoming brown and useless. The small 
outlay involved must therefore not be begrudged. 
Of course a copper strainer will do equally 
well 

On the following day the fruit is blanched, in 
smaller lots, with the same water, being kept 
stirred with the skimming ladle until nearly boiling. 
When the fruit rises to the top and begins to show 
a network of cracks, it is taken out and thoroughly 
cooled in running water. 

The cooled fruit is next placed in a shallow pan 
and covered with 20*" Sugar, this being concentrated 
on the following day to 24, poured over the 
fruit again, and the whole heated. When cold once 
more the fruit is bottled with fresh sugar (25). 

Whole Pears. 

Only certain varieties, such as muscadine pears, 
egg pears, French beurr^ pears, and rousselets, are 
suitable for preserving. The fruit should be full 
grown, but the pips still white, though with a slight 
tinge of brown at the tips. At this stage also the 
fruit will bear the sulphuring necessary for attaining 
perfect whiteness. The pears may also be used unsul- 
phured, being then treated with a little neutralin 
{q.v,) in blanching. 

The best way to peel the fruit is in a peeling 
machine, neutralin being added to the water. When 
a sufficient number has been peeled, the pears are 



14 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

blanched in plenty of water until they no longer 
stick to the needle, this stage being reached in 
about 2530 minutes. 

When thoroughly cooled, the pears  which, of 
course, have had the cores cut out before peeling  
are pricked and placed in a 20 solution of sugar, 
being then left overnight covered with paper. 

The following day the sugar is concentrated to 
22, and the day after that to 25, and heated up 
with the fruit, the concentration being afterwards 
continued (next day) to 28, and the cooled fruit 
bottled with fresh sugar. 

Pears that are defective in colour or spotted are 
coloured red on the second day, by adding new- 
red or fruit-red to the sugar, and heating the 
whole up together gradually, the further treatment 
being the same as just described. 

Halved Pears. 

The kinds suitable for this method are the 
summer lemon pear and summer bergamot. The 
fruit is peeled in the machine, cut into halves, 
and the cores taken out with a suitable instrument, 
the fruit being then blanched and treated as already 
described. 

Cornelian Cherries. 

Large ripe fruit is taken, cleaned, heated in 
water, like cherries, so as not to break, and placed 
at once in a red-stained solution of sugar (18). 
Next day it is bottled, the same sugar being poured 



PRESERVED FRUITS 15 

over it after reconcentration to the original strength 
(18) and filtering. 



Peaches (Halved). 

The best sorts for preserving are the late varieties 
in which the stones do not become detached, and 
the fruit is white fleshed with brown stones. 

They must be in such a condition of ripeness 
that they can be peeled in the machine. The 
peeled fruit is cut in halves by means of a short, heavy 
knife, which is inserted into the furrow,, a short 
blow being struck on a hardwood chopping board, so 
as to split stone and all. The stone is taken out 
with the same knife and the fruit trimmed up. 

The peaches are blanched, a few at a time, 
in a copper pan with water containing a little 
neiitralin, by heating them quickly to boiling and 
then leaving them to draw slowly. After cooling 
in plenty of water the fruit is placed in a 20 
solution of sugar, which is reconcentrated next day, 
the peaches being bottled with fresh sugar. 

It is also advisable in this case to first preserve 
the fruit in gallon jars containing 30 sugar, the 
jars being then heated in the water-bath for J an 
hour. Later on, when time allows, they can be 
bottled. This method gives better results. 

^^^ ""y^ Peaches (Whole). 

The smaller varieties with green or white flesh, 
in which the stones become detached  the so-called 



i6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

muscatel peach  are suitable. They must be ripe 
enough for the skin to loosen when th^ fruit is 
thrown into boiling water, boiled quickly for some 
time, and then thrown into cold water. 

The treatment is the same as described above. 



Quinces. 

Only the apple quince is suitable for preserving, 
the pear quince being used solely for quince marma- 
lade. The fruit is peeled in a machine, cut up into 
six to eight pieces, and the cores cut out with care. 
The water should contain a little neutralin. 

When a sufficient number have been got ready, 
the cut pieces are quickly heated to boiling in 
plenty of water, whereupon steam is turned off, and 
the fruit left to draw, covered over with a wooden 
lid, until soft enough, i.e. until the pieces no longer 
stick to the needle. When cool they are placed 
in 18 sugar, and bottled after concentration to 26. 
One portion may be coloured red, as described for 
pears. 

For stock jars, the blanched fruit is covered with 
25 sugar, and sterilised 25-30 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Roseberries. 

The large garden berries are freed from adherent 
thorns by rubbing them in a bag, and then cut 
off at the tips sufficiently low down to enable the 
kernels to be extracted with a suitable wire hook. 
The fruit is slowly blanched in water, containing 



PRESERVED FRUITS 17 

a little burnt alum, until it feels soft, and is then 
placed in cold 18 sugar containing a little fruit- 
red. The next day it is concentrated to 26, and 
then bottled with fresh sugar. 

The wild berries are preserved with the kernels 
in, for mixed fruits, the tips being cut off far enough 
to make an opening. The fruit is scalded in boiling 
water, and placed in quart jars mih 25 sugar, 
being then sterilised for 2530 minutes on a water- 
bath. 

Skinned Plums. 

The only suitable variety is the large late plum, 
the summer kinds being useless for bottling. The 
fruit must be still hard, though with a good yellow 
flesh. The skins are removed by dropping a few 
plums at a time into boiling water, boiling them until 
the skin cracks, and then placing them quickly in 
cold water, whereupon the skins come away easily. 
The skinned fruit is placed in shallow pans with 
fresh water, containing a little neutralin, this 
enabling the yellow colour to be retained. The 
pan is slowly heated over the fire, with constant 
stirring, until the plums begin to float, whereupon 
they are removed and cooled with plenty of 
water. 

They are left overnight in 20 sugar, which is 
concentrated to 24 next day, the fruit being heated 
at the same time. When cold, bottle with fresh 
25 sugar. 

Plums bottled in their skins are best preserved 
first in gallon jars. The plums are pricked in a 



i8 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

machine, scalded for a moment in boiling water, 
and covered with 34 sugar, then sterilised 30 
minutes on a water-bath. In this way the shape 
and appearance of the fruit are preserved. 

Raspberries. 

For transparent preserve, dry, fine garden 
raspberries are taken and treated in the same way 
as strawberries. Wild raspberries for bottling are 
placed* in a shallow enamelled pan, suffused with 
boiling 28 sugar, and left to stand. Later on 
the whole is carefully heated, and bottled when cold. 

Blackberries. 

The treatment is the same as for wild raspberries. 

Bilberries. 

The berries are picked, washed, and put into 
sieves. Three parts of sugar are boiled until a 
skin forms, then mixed with 7 parts of fruit, and 
carefully raised to boiling, and skimmed. When 
cold the fruit is ladled into bottles and steriUsed 
on the water-bath. 

Cranberries. 

Large selected berries for bottling are heated to 
boiling in water, then taken out at once and placed 
in red-stained sugar of 20 strength. Next 
day the sugar is concentrated to 24, the berries 



PRESERVED FRUITS 19 

and sugar are heated iu shallow pans, and bottled 
when cold. 

For compote in bottles or jars, 50 lb. of sugar 
should be used for every 100 lb. of fruit. The 
sugar is dissolved and boiled to strong syrup ; the 
picked, washed berries being added and carefully 
stirred while the mass is being slowly raised to 
boiling. The whole is then skimmed, and the opera- 
tion repeated several times, boiling being continued 
until a test sample thickens to a jelly. The mass is 
then cooled a little and packed whilst still hot. 

These may be kept fresh, but can also be 
preserved, first in gallon jars by pricking the fruit 
and blanching it with plenty of water (containing 
neutralin) until it no longer sticks to the needle. 
It is then placed in the jars, covered with 34 
sugar, and sterilised for | an hour on the water- 
bath. Treated in this way, the figs preserve 
their fine yellow colour, and are better fitted for 
bottling. 

If the figs have been stored in brine they must 
first be carefully drained. When desired to remain 
yellow and not acquire a green colour, they must 
be blanched in a properly tinned or enamelled pan. 
Salt figs take nearly 2 hours to soften properly, 
which done, they are cooled and laid in sugar of 
22 strength, afterwards increased to 25, and 
finally to 28, the figs being heated with the sugar 
at the finishing stage. 



TO THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Melons. 

The only kinds suitable for preserving are the 
network melon and the Cantaloupe. The proper 
stage of ripeness is reached when the fruit will 
give at the tip under the pressure of the fingers, 
otherwise the melons must be stored until this 
condition is attained. The fruit is cut into halves, 
the seeds taken out, and the flesh cut into slices, 
the skin being removed and the side next the core 
trimmed smooth. 

The slices are placed overnight in water contain- 
ing 50 per cent, of vinegar, which makes the flesh 
contract. Next day the melons are heated to boil- 
ing with the same water in large pans, then covered 
up and left to draw. When all the slices are clear 
and properly softened, they are cooled down, the 
rear sides are pricked with needles, and the slices 
laid in cold 29 sugar, concentrated next day to 
22", and finally to 25, the fruit being then heated 
with the sugar. When cold, it is bottled with fresh 
sugar. 

Apples. 

Apples are rarely used in the form of compote, be- 
ing generally stored in jars for subsequent mixing. 

Only a few of the better sorts of apples are 
suitable for compote, and these are blanched (with 
an addition of neutralin), steeped overnight in 18 
sugar, and packed next day with 22 sugar. They 
are peeled in a machine, cut into halves, and the 
cores removed. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 21 

Apples for storage in jars are treated with 30 
sugar solution, and after being cooled in water, 
are placed in the jars at once, sugar being added, 
and the whole sterilised for J an hour on the 
water-bath. 

Genoa Oranges, Qreen and Yellow. 

The peeled fruit, bought in a pickled condition, 
is moistened and then blanched in a bright copper 
pan with plenty of soft water. The green fruit 
takes 2i hours, the yellow 2 hours. 

After cooling in plenty of running water, the 
fruit is pricked and placed in an 18** sugar solution, 
which is concentrated next day to 21**, and after- 
wards to 24**, at which stage the fruit is heated with 
the sugar. The concentration is increased to 26, 
and next day to 28, the fruit being heated this 
time also. When cold it is packed with fresh sugar. 

The yellow oranges may also be coloured red by 
staining the first sugar with fruit-red. 

Chestnuts. 

The large Italian or French chestnuts are used, 
these being shelled, and steeped overnight in water 
containing neutralin. 

Next day the chestnuts are placed in shallow 
wicker baskets, which are laid on a lath grating in 
a suitable pan, the grating being weighted down 
with stones. A few pounds of flour, stirred to a 
pap with water, are added to the blanching water. 



22 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The water is slowly raised to boiling, and left to 
draw for an hour. Meanwhile a solution of sugar 
(18) is prepared and placed in a shallow copper or 
enamelled pan, the peeled chestnuts being added. 
(Enough hands should be employed to get through 
the peeling quickly.) Half a stick of vanilla is 
placed in each pan, and the sugar is concentrated 
by heating the pans on the water-bath. Next day 
the chestnuts may be packed, fresh vanilla sugar 
of 25 density being used. 

Angelica. 

The roots are sorted into thick, medium, and thin, 
the latter being bottled, whilst the thicker kinds are 
preserved in thick sugar as garnishing fruit. 

The roots are slowly blanched in a copper 
pan, about 1 1 hours being required. Just before the 
finish, a little copper sulphate is added to give 
the fine, bright colour. Then water, and treat 
in shallow pans like other fruit. Angelica in 
thickened sugar must contain at least 50 of 
syrup to prevent it from drying and becoming 
candied. 

Mixed Fruit. 

The preparation of the several fruits has already 
been described ; but if a clear mixture be desired, 
no stained fruits must be used, since these always 
part with some of the colouring matter. Stoned 
cherries, coloured with new-red, may, however, 
be used, provided they are boiled up again with 



PRESERVED FRUITS 23 

white sugar. Large wild roseberries are well 
adapted for mixtures. 

The various fruits are placed on suitable earthen- 
ware colanders, bottled, and covered with fresh 
sugar (25''). 

Mixed fruits in arrack, cherry cordial, rum, etc., 
are prepared in the same way, the added sugar being 
mixed with 50 per cent, of the corresponding spirit. 
These preparations must not be heated after the 
bottles have been closed, but it will be sufficient to 
make the open bottles fairly hot, and then put the 
stoppers in. 

Pineapple. 

The usual way to bottle this fruit is to take one- 
third of hothouse pineapples and two-thirds of the 
West Indian fruit. The pineapples are quartered, 
and then cut in thin slices with a sharp knife. 
Each pound of slices requires 3 lb. of refined sugar 
carefully boiled to 32 density, the fruit being 
added and boiled up* once, after which it is taken 
out and cooled. Next day the sugar is poured 
away, concentrated to 30, strained, returned to 
the fruit, and the whole boiled up again. When 
cold, the fruit and sugar are bottled, and heated on 
the water-bath. 



Plums in Vinegar. 

The best way to prepare these for compote is to 
store the plums in sugar in gallon jars, as already 
described under plums. 



24 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

For use, the plums are bottled, aromatic vinegar 
is poured in, and the whole heated as usual. The 
aromatic vinegar is prepared by setting 10 gallons 
of wine vinegar in a warm place, with 1 lb. of 
whole cinnamon, 1 lb. of pimento, arid | lb. of 
cloves, for a month, and then pouring off and filter- 
ing the vinegar. 

Cherries in Vinegar. 

Prepared from preserved cherries in the same 
way as described for plums. 



CANNED FRUIT. 

Canned fruits are mostly blanched beforehand, 
though some kinds are packed raw. In the latter 
case, however, the fruit must be carefully washed 
to remove, not merely the dirt, but also any 
adherent fermentative organisms. For the same 
reason it is also essential to sterilise the raw fruit 
at a higher temperature, preferably in an autoclave. 

On the other hand, fruit that has been blanched 
in water can be suflBciently steriUsed on an open 
water-bath. The strength of sugar solution to be 
added varies with the kind of fruit, particulars 
being given in each of the following cases. 

Gooseberries. 

The gooseberries are blanched, as already de- 
scribed, well cooled, placed in tins, and covered with 
22 sugar. The time required for sterilising IJ 
pint tins is 20 minutes on the water-bath. 

Strawberries, Uncooked. 

The berries are picked to remove the stalks and 
all damaged specimens, then washed, and drained 
on hair sieves. They are next packed in the tins 



26 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

and covered with dark, red-stained sugar (28''). 
Sterilising is done in the autoclave, 1 minutes at 
220 F. being sufficient for 1| pint tins. 

Currants. 

The carefully picked berries are lightly washed, 
warmed over a fire (but not boiled) in a shallow 
pan with 28 sugar, and packed into tins when 
cooled. Sterilise IJ pint tins on a water-bath for 
20 minutes. 

Dark Cherries with the Stones in. 

The picked cherries are heated in plenty of 
water until the stones are somewhat loosened, 
though the fruit should not burst. They are then 
quickly transferred to sieves, placed warm in the 
tins, and covered with 20 sugar. Sterilise on 
the water-bath as already mentioned. 

Light Cherries with the Stones in. 

The cherries must first be stained a uniform 
colour, the best dye being new-red. The cherries 
are heated slowly in the dissolved dye, and when 
the desired depth of colour is attained, are treated 
in the same way as dark cherries. 

Stoned Cherries. 

The cherries are stoned, then lightly blanched 
in a 10 solution of sugar, after which they are 



CANNED FRUIT 27 

laid in fresh sugar (density 20), and when 
cold are placed in the tins, juice and all. Sterilise 
as above. 

Mahaleb or Scented Cherries. 

When tinned with the stones in, these cherries are 
blanched in water, the same as other cherries, the 
stoned fruit being blanched in dilute sugar. The 
sugar is stained a handsome red, and the tinned 
fruit is sterilised for 20 minutes on the water- 
bath. 

Pears, Whole or in Halves. 

The peeled and cored pears are blanched with a 
little neutralin, well cooled, packed in tins, and 
covered with 28"* sugar. Sterilise 1| pint tins 
for 20 minutes on the water-bath. 



Apricots, cut into Halves. 

Fine apricots of uniform ripeness are carefully 
wiped clean with cloths, cut into halves, and the 
stones removed. They are then laid closely 
together in the tins, without pressing, a few 
shelled kernels being placed on top, and covered 
with 30** sugar solution. 

Sterilisation is performed in the autoclave for 
8 minutes at 220 R, and the tins are cooled at 
once with plenty of running water to prevent 
bulging. The pouring in of the sugar must be 
quickly followed by the sterilising. 



28 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Apricots, Whole Fruit. 

Fruit of uniform ripeness is freed from stalks, 
pricked with needles, and placed in dishes, being 
then partly blanched with hot water containing 
neutralin. It is then placed in the tins, covered 
with 28"* sugar, and sterilised in the autoclave for 
8 minutes at 220 F., or for 25 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Skinned Apricots. 

The fruit for this purpose should be semi-ripe, 
but already yellow, so that it can be skinned by 
hand, either the whole fruit or when cut into 
halves. It is then carefully blanched, cooled, and 
placed in the tins, where it is covered with 25** 
sugar, and the tins are boiled for 20 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Whole fruit, in a suitable stage of ripeness, may 
also be skinned in the machine. 



Small Yellow (Mirabelle) Plums. 

If the fruit be yellow, but still hard, it is pre- 
ferably pricked with needles, and heated in water 
until the skin easily cracks and the fruit rises to 
the top. It is then placed in the tins and 
covered with 28 sugar. 

When riper fruit is taken it is packed raw, 
being first pricked, then washed thoroughly in cold 
water and dried with a cloth. The sugar in this 
case is of only 24 density, and sterilising is 



CANNED FRUIT 29 

performed in the autoclave for 10 minutes at 
230 F. When finished, cool with plenty of 
running water until the lids are tight. 

When the plums have been blanched before- 
hand, sterilising for 20 minutes on the water- 
bath will be sufficient. 



Greengages. 

The fruit is blanched as for bottling, but not 
quite so soft, then well watered, packed, covered 
with 25* sugar, and sterilised for 20 minutes on 
the water-bath. 



Peaches, Whole or Halved. 

The right sort to use is that in which the stones 
do not loosen. The fruit is blanched in water 
with a little neutralin, cooled, packed in the tins, 
and covered with 25 sugar, being then sterilised 
on the water-bath for 20 minutes. 



Late Plums, Unstoned. 

When the plums have been pricked in a 
machine, they are placed in a large quantity of 
water, in portions, quickly heated to boiling, and 
cooled at once before they burst. Next they are 
placed in the tins and covered with 24 sugar that 
has been stained a light red. Thinner sugar may 
also be used. 

The best method of sterilising is for 10 minutes 



30 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

at 230 F., followed by a thorough cooling. This 
treatment is essential to destroy the fermentative 
organisms and to prevent bulging tins. The fruit 
may also be tinned in an uncooked condition, but 
in such case must be brought direct from the tree 
to the works, and packed without delay. 

Preserved Rhubarb. 

All thick early sorts are suitable, the sticks 
being skinned, cut into lengths of about 2 inches, 
placed in earthenware dishes, strewn with plenty 
of sugar, and left overnight. Next day the whole 
is carefully heated, and the sticks placed in tins 
after cooling. The juice is concentrated to 20**, a 
little finely pared lemon peel being added and 
poured over the sticks, the whole being sterilised 
on the water-bath. Twenty minutes is enough for 
1^ pint tins. 

Bilberries. 

The berries are carefully selected, washed, and 
put into the tins, where a 28-30'' sugar solution is 
poured over them. Sugar that has already been 
used may be employed. Sterilise in the autoclave 
for 10 minutes at 230 F. 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS. 

The sugar used for preparing these preserves 
must indicate 38 by the saccharometer, in the 
finished condition, this being, moreover, the highest 
density that can be accurately measured. 

Well-prepared syrup fruit should keep well 
for a year or more if stored in a cool place; but 
the preparation entails considerable experience in 
order to turn out a really perfect article. 

Of course the quality and ripeness of the 
raw fruit has an important influence on the 
result. 

Some kinds require to be sulphured in order to 
obtain a fine, pale colour, e.g. apricots, cherries, and 
pears in particular. 

Blanching requires considerable care, each fruit 
needing to be blanched quite soft, to enable the 
sugar to penetrate easily and the fruit to retain its 
form intact. The treatment with sugar is the 
same as for bottled fruit, the 28 syrup being 
concentrated the next day to 32, the fruit being 
heated up with it and then left to stand for 2 days. 
Then begins the treatment with strong syrup, the 
quantity used being about one-third that of the 
sugar juice. Almonds and pears rich in sugar 



32 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

need rather more, in order to prevent 
crystallisation. 

The sugar is concentrated to SS*' by heating it 
over a coke fire, in small portions at a time, without 
any addition of sugar ; and the syrup and fruit are 
added and boiled up together. Next day it is 
concentrated to 38, more syrup being added, and 
the fruit heated up with it again. Whilst still 
hot, the mass is placed in dry jars or basins, 
covered with paper soaked in spirit, and tied up. 

In all works of any size a room will be set apart 
for sulphuring, situated near a chimney or air 
shaft, and fitted with tightly closing doors. A trap 
door is provided between the room and the 
chimney for the escape of the vapours when the 
sulphuring is over. 

The fruit to be sulphured is laid on wooden 
trays with lath bottoms, measuring about 40 by 20 
inches, and placed one above another so as to leave 
a space of about an inch between. Wire is quite 
unsuitable. The fruit spread out in this manner 
(apricots in single layers) is placed in the room 
overnight, and the sulphur ignited. Apricots are 
incised at the tip with a knife, or the stone 
loosened a little by inserting a wire at the seat of 
the stalk. About 2 lb. of flowers of sulphur are 
placed in an iron vessel, mounted for safety on an 
iron or earthenware plate, the sulphur being ignited 
with a few lumps of glowing coke so as to set the 
whole mass on fire. 

Next morning the vapours are allowed to escape, 
and the fruit is taken out and laid in water: 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 33 

apricots in small vessels, cherries and pears in large 
tubs. 

A point to be remembered is that sulphured 
fruit must never be packed in tins. Consequently 
also all soft fruits, obtained by blanching, for 
marmalades, must be packed in glass vessels, since 
they would turn black and spoil in tins. 

Sulphured pears remain unaltered by paring, 
and cherries on stoning ; which is a great ad- 
vantage. Sulphured apricots never give rise to the 
objectionable brown specks in the sugar that are 
found in the case of unsulphured fruit, the colour 
remaining uniformly pale. Sulphured cherries take 
the red stain evenly, which never happens when 
sulphuring is omitted. New-red, however, is the 
only suitable dye, none of the others acting direct. 
Pears also should be coloured with this dye. 

The light red mahaleb cherries are also sulphured 
and boiled for preserving in this manner, sulphuring 
being the only way to make them retain their 
plump, rounded shape. 

Glazing Fruit. 

The preparation of shiny, dry fruit, entails 
considerable experience and particular care in 
boiling the various kinds of fruit. 

The sugar syrup must not be lower than 
36 density, and the fruit in all cases must 
be left in this syrup for a month at least. If the 
concentration of the syrup recedes during the 
process, it must be restored to the proper strength. 
3 



34 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

For glazing, the fruit is first drained on a copper 
strainer, then boiled up again, in small quantities 
at a time, in a fresh 36 solution of sugar, 
the same sugar being used in each case. The fruit 
is taken out with large wire spoons, and placed to 
drain in wicker baskets. When enough has been 
prepared, glazing may be commenced. 

For this purpose a 32 solution of (prefer- 
ably refined) sugar is prepared, and about 2 J gallons 
of this are placed in the glazing pan, for treating 
11-12 lb. of fruit. 

The sugar is boiled over a bright coke fire, the 
edges being washed clean, imtil a crust forms, 
2 tablespoons of syrup being added. When the 
sugar is of the proper strength, the fruit is added, 
and the whole allowed to boil up, the pan being 
then taken off the fire and left for several minutes. 

Owing to the strength of the sugar, only a small 
portion can be worked at a time, a portion of the 
fruit being collected on one side of the pan by 
means of a light, flat, perforated copper spoon, 
about 8 inches long and 6 inches broad, with a 
suitable handle, and the sugar worked with a small 
spattle, the fruit being then laid on a wire grating 
for the surplus sugar to drain into a vessel under- 
neath. This operation is repeated with fresh 
portions of fruit until the whole has been dealt 
with. 

It is impossible for the operator to work fast 
enough to treat the whole at once. The necessary 
skill can be acquired in a few days, and 23 girls 
are required for each pan, the fruit being taken by 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 35 

means of flexible wire tongs and laid so that each 
fruit is separate from the rest. 

The only way to obtain a shiny and durable 
glazing is by using strong sugar. 

When the fruit on the gratings is cold, it is 
transferred on to suitable trays, and can be packed 
after a short interval. 



Candied Fruit. 

To prepare candied fruit, a number of shallow 
candy pans are required and suitable wire gauze or 
perforated sheet metal, to be placed one at the 
bottom and the other on top. Large fruit is 
arranged in a single layer, but smaller fruit, like 
cherries, in two to three layers. 

When the fruit has drained it is washed in a 
fresh sugar solution (30) by the aid of heat, 
and laid on wooden trays or wire gratings in the 
warm drying-room. Next day it is turned over, so 
that both sides can get dry. When properly dry, 
which condition will be reached after 2 days, the 
fruit is candied. 

A suitable quantity of sugar is dissolved in the 
requisite amount of water, raised to boiling, and 
then gradually diluted to 28, with frequent 
skimming, after which it is concentrated to 
3434^, according as large or small crystals are 
desired. The finished candy is transferred to a 
suitable pan and set on one side. It is important 
that the finished sugar should be poured over the 
fruit 3 hours later, before it has cooled so &r that 



36 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

a solid crust is formed. Thus, if the candy is 
finished at 4 o'clock, it must be poured about 7. 
The candy pans are left overnight in the warm 
drying-room and emptied next morning. 



Blue Plums. 

This highly appreciated preserve can be easily 
made on a large scale, especially when a cheap 
supply of plums is available, any good sort being 
suitable. 

The fruit should be at such a stage of ripeness 
that, while the flesh is still firm, the skin has begun 
to wrinkle near the stalk. It is better to be over- 
ripe than the reverse. The stones are extracted 
by a wire instrument, inserted at the stalk end and 
pushing the stone out through the tip, the fruit 
being meanwhile held firmly in the left hand to 
prevent bursting. When the quantity is small the 
plums are laid in a flat pan, hot, previously used 
sugar (24) being poured in, and pounded sugar 
strewn over the top. The pans are left in the 
drying-room until the next day, the fruit parting 
with its juice and absorbing sugar. Next day boil 
over a fire, with frequent shaking, and skim. 
When cold proceed with concentration, by stages of 
4, without adding syrup, fruit syrup being generally 
used with this fruit. 

Large parcels are treated as follows: The 
stoned plums are placed in large tubs or pans, 
covered with a wooden grating, and weighted with 
a stone. Boiling fruit sugar (24) is then poured 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 37 

over, and the whole left to stand. Next day the 
fruit is transferred to small pans, the sugar juice 
being concentrated to 28 and poured hot over the 
fruit. After a few hours the fruit and sugar are 
boiled together and left to cool. On the third day 
the sugar is concentrated to 34, and on the fourth 
day to 38, the whole when cold being stored in 
large casks in a cool place. 

In the finishing process the plums are well 
drained, the small ones being used for stuffing, by 
the aid of a suitable piece of wood. The plums being 
laid on a suitable wire grating are dipped carefully 
five to six times in water that is just boiling, in 
order to wash off the adherent syrup. The residual 
drops of water are blown off by means of a bellows, 
and the grating is taken into the drying-room, 
which must not be hotter than 85 F. After 
2436 hours the plums will have acquired the 
desired bluish " bloom," and are then ready for 
packing. If the temperature of the drying-room is 
higher the syrup sweats out of the plums, and the 
latter do not turn blue; the defect, however, can 
be remedied by rewashing. 

Qlazed Chestnuts. 

The preparation of this article entails great care 
and long experience to turn out a fine, light- 
coloured," and tender fruit. The best chestnuts to 
use are the large Italian or French kinds, rather 
flat than round. After removing the brown outer 
shell the chestnuts are laid on sulphuring trays 



38 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

and sulphured for 2 hours, after which they are 
placed until the next day in fresh water, which is 
renewed several times. 

Blanching is performed in small, shallow wicker 
baskets, made of peeled withes, and capable of 
holding 5-7 lb. of chestnuts. These baskets are 
laid on a wooden grating in a large shallow pan, 
the intermediate spaces being weighted with stones. 
The grating, however, must be merely pegged, and 
not nailed, contact with iron spoiling the colour of 
the fruit. Moreover, all the vessels used should be 
of copper or enamel. 

Three measures of wheaten flour are stirred to a 
pap with 150 of water, and sufficient of this 
mixture is poured over the chestnuts to cover 
them. The water is gradually raised to the boil, or 
rather to 194 F., which temperature should not be 
exceeded, and kept thereat for 2 hours, with 
frequent skimming, and replacing the water lost by 
evaporation. The whole time of heating should be 
at least 3 hours, preferably longer; but a little 
experience will soon teach what is the correct 
period. As soon as the chestnuts are found to be 
soft enough, the basket is taken out and placed in 
hot water, this being essential for skinning. The 
skinned nuts are placed in a shallow pan containing 
sugar soluti(m (15) and vanilla. 

When a few pans are ready, the sugar is con- 
centrated, preferably on a large water-bath holding six 
to eight pans, and heated by steam. The water being 
kept on the boil, the operation will be completed in 
half a day, the loss by evaporation being replaced 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 39 

all the time by sugar solution. Next day this 
sugar, which has turned a dark colour, is poured 
off, and fresh 32 sugar, containing one-third of 
syrup, is added. On the third day the chestnuts 
are either placed in gallon storage jars and covered 
with 32 syrup, or else are bottled direct. How- 
ever, to avoid risk of breakage, it is preferable to 
defer the bottling until the chestnuts have stood 
for some time in syrup, and to preserve a stock for 
the following season, so as to begin with a good 
article. 

The glazing is performed in the same manner 
as with other fruits, but in smaller quantities at 
a time, vanilla being added to the glaze. 

Glazed Pineapple Slices. 

Since these should be of a fine pale yellow 
colour, the fruit must not be boiled much with the 
sugar. Tinned pineapple is cut into slices, with 
a sharp, thin-bladed knife, on a suitable board, 
fitted with a |-inch guide strip on right and left, 
the slices being boiled IJ hours with pure water 
in a bright copper pan. Meanwhile best refined 
sugar is dissolved to a 20 solution, in which, whilst 
still hot, the hot boiled slices are laid and covered 
up with paper. At the start a comparatively small 
amount of sugar is used so that the slices will not 
float, since in these circumstances they will absorb 
the sugar better. 

Next day the slices are arranged in a circle, the 
sugar being concentrated to 24 and poured over 



40 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

them hot. The next time 'the concentration is 
increased to 28'' with added sugar; then to 32, 
each time being poured hot over the fruit; and 
finally to 36, with addition of a little syrup, the 
slices being carefully heated up with the sugar, and 
then turned into flat pans to cool before being put 
into the jars. The glazing is performed in the 
manner already described, except that in this case 
the slices are merely drained. Pineapple cubes, 
or "chunks," are treated in just the same way; 
the commercial " sticks " are best for this purpose, 
being almost completely free from " eyes." 

Crystallised Strawberries. 

Firm-fleshed strawberries of medium size are 
boiled as described under strawberries, and allowed 
to drain on a sieve in the drying-room. The still 
moist fruit is then rolled in fine, red-stained crystal 
sugar, then laid singly on boards covered to a depth 
of i an inch with the same sugar, and put in the 
drying-room. Next day they are turned over, 
worked a little, and left to dry for another day, 
whereupon they are ready for packing. 

Mustarda. 

There are two classes of this preserve, one 
sweeter than the other. The former is prepared 
from sweetened fruit, the other from stewed fruit. 

The sweet kind will keep unaltered for a con- 
siderable time, even in open jars; but the other 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 41 

must be sterilised on the water-bath, and is always 
sold in tins. 

The various fruits are packed as for mixed fruit, 
and the mixture is covered with a mustard sauce, 
prepared as follows: 48^ lb. of brown mustard are 
ground three times, and stirred up with 9f gallons 
of white wine, 1 lb. of salt, and J lb. of ground 
capsicum. This mixture is left to stand all night 
and put through the machine next day ; then mixed 
with 17^ gallons of boiling hot 28 sugar, the whole 
being stirred and afterwards skimmed. This mixture 
will keep for a long time, but should be boiled up 
again before use. 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES. 

The preparation of genuine marmalades and juices 
alone is dealt with in this section, no mention being 
made of those fortified with gelatine, agar-agar, etc. 
Of course, as in all large works, the various fruit 
pulps are stored in jars or bottles, and only used 
when the marmalade is to be sent out. 

This method offers many advantages. In the 
first place the sugar is not worked up until the 
marmalade is to be sent out, thus saving a good 
deal of expense ; and furthermore, all kinds of pulp 
are ready in autumn for the preparation of the 
various mixtures required. 

It should also be mentioned that fruit pulp will 
keep best when poured boiling hot into glass jars 
that have been rinsed out with boiling water, the 
jars being filled to the top and closed at once. 
Sterilising in tins alters the colour, and cannot be 
practised for any berry fruit, the tin spoiling the 
colour. 

Lower grade fruit pulp, and also apricot pulp  
large quantities of which should be stocked  may, 
however, be stored in tins holding up to ^ cwt., in 
the following manner :  

The tins, which are soldered top and bottom. 




43 



44 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

have a 2 -inch hole in the lid, and are stood in a 
vessel of boiling v^ater. When the fruit pulp is 
boiling hot the tins are taken out in succession 
and filled up to the top, the lids being soldered on 
at once. This done, the tins are stood on their 
heads, so that the small amount of imprisoned 
air is compelled to rise through the boiling hot 
pulp, and is thus rendered innocuous. This 
method is perfectly reliable, and enables large 
quantities of pulp to be got ready for storage 
in a short time. 




Fig. 4. 

The pulp may be put through a hand mill, or 
through one of larger size, operated by power, 
similar to that illustrated in Fig. 3. 

At the present time it is the practice to use a 
larger quantity of sugar than formerly  the average 
then being only two-thirds to three-fourths per lb.  
in order to obtain transparent marmalades of good 
keeping properties. The English practice in jam- 
making is to use equal weights of sugar and fruit, 
this de\celoping the flavour of the fruit better ; and 
the fruit is not pulped so fine as on the Continent, 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 45 

being preferably torn so that the flesh is more 
apparent, and imparts a characteristic appearance. 
In the case of plums, peaches, apricots, etc., a few 
stones are left in the mass to improve the fineness 
of flavour. 

In the following description of the various 
marmalades it is assumed that the fruit is steamed 
in pans holding about f cwt. (Fig. 4), this en- 
abling the steaming to be reduced to about 1520 
minutes  an important point in the preparation of 
pale marmalades. 

Experience alone will teach when the fruit is 
done ; and in case of imcertainty a few samples 
should be taken and spread on a plate to cool. 
The finished marmalade should be cooled by stirring 
in shallow pans, so as to prevent scorching ; but it 
must be filled into the pots whilst still hot. 

Strawberry Marmalade. 

Strawberry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
sugar, 3 parts. 

Raspberry Marmalade. 

Easpberry pulp, 2 parts ; currant pulp, 1 part ; 
apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 4 parts. 

Currant Marmalade. 

Currant pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 
3 parts. 



46 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Scented Cherry Marmalade. 

Scented cherry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
currant pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 4 parts. 

Cherry Marmalade. 

Cherry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 
3 parts. 

Greengage Marmalade. 

Greengage pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
sugar, 3 parts. 

Late Plum Marmalade. 

Plum pulp, 3 parts ; sugar, 3 parts. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Peach pulp, 2 parts; apple pulp, 1 part; sugar, 
3 parts. 

Roseberry Marmalade. 

Eoseberry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
sugar, 3 parts. 

Apricot Marmalade (Best). 

Apricot pulp, 3 parts; sugar, 3 parts. The 
sugar is boiled separately until it begins to ball, 
and then mixed with the pulp and boiled to a 
finish. 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 47 

Apricot Marmalade (Second Quality). 

Apricot pulp, 3 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar 
4 parts. 

Steeped Plums. 

One hundred parts of stoned, ripe late plums are 
mixed with fruit sugar drained from thickened sugar 
preserves, and boiled to proper consistency with a 
little whole cinnamon and a few cloves. 



Apple Marmalade. 

Apple pulp, 2 parts ; sugar, 1 part. 

English Orange Marmalade. 

Bitter oranges are used. The fruit is cut into 
halves, without injuring the core, thrown into 
boiling water, a few at a time, boiled for several 
minutes, and then quickly cooled, whereupon the 
flesh can be easily squeezed away from the. rind. 

The flesh is heated to boiling with a sufficient 
quantity of water and pulped in a mill, the rind 
being quartered and cut into thin shoes in a special 
machine. The slices are blanched until soft, and 
laid aside in a sieve. Next, 30 parts of the pulp 
and 10 of the slices are weighed out and mixed; 
and in the meantime 54 parts of refined sugar and 
6 of syrup are dissolved and heated till they ball, 
whereupon the pulp and rind are added and the 
whole boiled to a finish. 



48 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The marmalade should have a golden yellow 
colour and be perfectly clear, and is left in the 
natural condition. It is filled hot into the pots 
and fastened down when cold. 

Another kind can be made by adding a quantity 
of apple pulp equal to that of the orange rind 
taken. 

Tomato Marmalade. 

Six parts by weight of ripe fruit are thrown into 
hot water, taken out again quickly and cooled, the 
skins being then easily peeled off. The fruit is 
next cut into halves, and the seeds carefully 
extracted with a suitable instrument. Four parts 
of sugar are dissolved in a little water, mixed with 
the fruit, a piece of vanilla, and fresh lemon peel, 
and boiled with constant stirring till the mass sets 
to a jelly. The flavouring ingredients are then 
taken out. This preserve is held in great favour in 
Upper Italy. 

Apricot Jam. 

Good ripe fruit is stoned, and boiled with a little 
water, but not pulped. Equal parts of the fruit 
and water are boiled to the right consistency, and 
a few apricot kernels, previously scalded and skinned, 
are added to the mass. 



Gooseberry Jam. 

Nearly ripe, but still hard, gooseberries are cut 
off at the tips, boiled in a little water and put 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 49 

through the pulper. The pulp is mixed with its 
own weight of chapped berries and boiled with an 
equal amount of sugar. The jam is stained a light 
red. 

Red Currant Jam. 

The fruit is divided into two halves, one being 
boiled with a little water and pulped, the other 
washed and added. The mixture is boiled to a 
finish with its own weight of sugar, which has been 
boiled to balling point. 



Raspberry Jam. 

Fresh garden raspberries are divided into two 
halves, the one being pulped, and the other merely 
crushed. Two parts of this mixture are added to 
one of red currant pulp, and boiled to a finish with 
an equal weight of sugar. 

Strawberry Jam. 

In making this jam, one-third of pulped goose- 
berries is added, the agreeably acid flavour of the 
latter developing the taste of the strawberries. The 
latter are merely crushed, added to the gooseberry 
pulp, and the whole boiled with an equal weight 
of sugar. 

Cherry Jam. 

Sweet dark cherries are stoned in a special 
machine, no damage being done if the fruit is 
4 



50 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

torn more than is usually desirable in stoning. 
Meanwhile twice the quantity of whole cherries 
are boiled with a little water and put through 
a coarse pulper (Fig. 5), the sieve of which 
has a mesh just fine enough to keep back the 
stones. 

The pulp is then mixed with the stoned cherries, 
and boiled with a quantity of sugar equal to the 
weight of the fruit. 

Morella Cherry Jam. 

Both the early and late kinds are suitable ; and 
the method of preparation and quantity of sugar 
are the same as for cherry jam. Care must, how- 
ever, be taken to boil all the prepared fruit the 
same day, this being the only way to obtain a jam 
that will jelly properly and have a fine flavour. 

Bilberry Jam. 

The berries are picked over, washed clean, 

and crushed. The fruit is boiled with half its 

weight of water until the proper consistency is 
reached. 

Blackberry Jam. 

The blackberries are picked over, washed and 
crushed, after which they are mixed with one-third 
of gooseberry pulp, and boiled to a finish with an 
amount of sugar equal to the whole weight of 
fruit. 




 t' 



52 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Strawberry and Gooseberry Jam. 

This mixture has an excellent flavour, and is 
prepared from equal parts of the two fruits. One 
half of the gooseberries are pulped, the other 
chopped, and the strawberries merely crushed. 
Equal parts of sugar and fruit are used. 

Plum Jam. 

Good ripe late plums are freed from stalks and 
pulped in the coarse pulper after being heated to 
boiling with a little water. One-third of the whole, 
however, is merely stoned, leaving the skins on. 
A few of the kernels are added enough to make 
three to four in each pound pot. These kernels impart 
the agreeable flavour of bitter almonds to the jam. 
The proportion of sugar is the same as in other 
jams, namely, equal to that of the fruit. 

Raspberry and Red Currant Jam. 

This tastymixture is prepared from equal quantities 
of the two fruits, the currants being left whole and 
the raspberries crushed. To prevent an excess of 
pips half of each quantity is pulped and sifted. 
Equal parts of fruit and sugar are mixed, and 
boiled quickly to a finish after all is dissolved. 

Pineapple Jam. 

With this jam an addition of the finest apple 
pulp is essential to prevent it getting tough, and to 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 53 

increase the binding effect. Fresh pineapples are 
most suitable, but a portion may also be replaced 
by the tinned fruit. 

The skin and eyes are removed and the fruit 
sliced, and afterwards passed through the coarse 
sieve of a meat-chopping machine. The resulting 
pulp is mixed with an equal weight of sugar, and 
boiled down sufficiently, with stirring. One part 
of best white apple pulp, from sourish apples, is 
taken to three of pineapple pulp. 

Meanwhile the apple pulp, which contains the 
juice, is boiled with two-thirds of its weight of 
sugar until it jellies, and this is stirred into the 
pineapple pulp, the whole being then put into 
the pots. 

Five to ten per cent, of syrup may be added if 
considered advisable, but the jam will keep good 
for years, without crystallising, provided the work 
has been carefully done and the sugar dissolved 
slowly, the latter being preferably boiled by itself 
beforehand. 



FRUIT JELLIES. 

The only kinds of jelly that will be described here 
are those made from the natural juices of fruit and 
sugar. 

The preparation of the fruit juices is an import- 
ant preliminary, and their storage in jars. Apples 
and quinces are cut into six to eight pieces, without 
peeling, and placed in a pan with just enough 
water to cover the fruit. They are gradually 
raised to the boil without stirring, and are left to 
draw, covered up, until the slices are sufficiently 
soft, whereupon they are transferred to a hair 
sieve to allow the juice to drain. The juice is 
placed in deep vessels overnight, and is next day 
carefully decanted from the sediment, heated to 
boiling and poured hot into glass jars, which are 
then covered up at once. 

Berries, such as currants, raspberries, strawberries, 
cranberries, and blackberries, are also boiled with a 
small quantity of water in bright copper pans, trans- 
ferred to sieves, and the juice sterilised as above. 

The residue of the fruit may be pulped in the 
machine and used for mixed marmalade or jam. 
An addition of good apple juice is advisable in 
all fruit jellies, but should be prepared from good 



FRUIT JELLIES 55 

apples with an acid flavour. To obtain a clear 
juice without filtering, the following method can be 
employed :  

The juice, carefully freed from the sediment, is 
mixed with half its weight of best sugar, slowly 
heated to boiling, skimmed and filtered through 
a flannel bag, so as to keep back the particles 
of dirt present in the sugar. The filtered juice is 
quickly boiled up again, and as soon as a sample 
shows that the jellying stage is reached, is rapidly 
cooled with cold water, the steam being turned off 
and the juice skimmed. This operation is once 
or twice repeated, and as soon as a sample, placed 
in a glass, shows that the juice is clarified, boiling is 
continued to a finish, and the juice is put at once 
into the previously warmed glasses. The proper 
consistency is attained when the juice drops in 
patches from the upturned spoon, and when these 
patches, placed in a glass with cold water, fall to 
the bottom unchanged, without dissolving. The 
proper degree will be learned with a Uttle practice. 
Should the jelly be boiled beyond this stage it will 
scorch and then refuse to set at all. 

Apple Jelly. 

Apple juice, 2 parts ; sugar, ' 1 part ; is usually 
left the natural colour, but may also be stained red. 

Quince Jelly. 

Quince juice, 2 parts ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1| parts. 



56 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Currant Jelly. 

Currant juice, 2 parts ; apple juice, 1 part ; sugar, 
1| parts. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

Easpberry juice, 1 part ; currant juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part; 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Strawberry juice, 1 part ; currant juice, 1 part ; 
apple juice, 1 part; sugar, 1^ parts. The juice left 
over in making wild-strawberry compote is highly 
suitable. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Cranberry juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Blackberry juice, 1 part; apple juice, 1 part; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Apricot Jelly. 

Apricot juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Peach Jelly. 

Peach juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; sugar, 1 
part. The sweet juice formed when the fruit is kept 
in storage jars can be advantageously worked up into 
peach and apricot jelly ; but in such case only 



FRUIT JELLIES 57 

25 per cent, of sugar should be used, instead 
of 50 per cent., the juice already containing 
sugar. The added apple juice of coui^se receives 
50 per cent, of sugar. 

Raspberry Juice. 

Fresh wild raspberries are mixed with 5 per 
cent, of sugar, and left to ferment in suitable 
vessels, tubs wider at the bottom than the top 
being the best. The contents are stirred several 
times a day. 

According to the temperature of the room, 
fermentation will be over in 68 days; and the 
must has then to be pressed quickly to prevent the 
alcoholic fermentation from proceeding to acetic 
fermentation. 

The pressed juice must be heated to 175** F. in 
large copper pans, thus arresting fermentation, and 
the still hot juice filled into 10 gallon wickered 
flasks, closed by plugs of cotton wool steeped in 
saUcylic acid. Stored in a cool place, the juice 
will keep unaltered for a long time, and clarifies 
of itself. For use it is decanted carefully from 
the sediment. 

When the crude juice is stored in larger quantities 
it is treated with 15 per cent, of spirit, and placed 
in perfectly clean casks, which are kept full to the 
bung. In this case, however, the juice loses its 
colour in time, which does not occur when kept 
in the flasks. 

To prepare raspberry syrup, 100 parts by weight 



58 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

of the crude juice are put iuto a suitable pan with 
180 parts of best sugar and slowly heated to 
boiling, with stirring, the steam being turned off 
as soon as the juice begins to froth up. As soon 
as the froth has subsided it is removed, the edges 
wiped round, and the juice heated to boiling again, 
and skimmed. 

The juice is next strained through flannel. It 
will measure 3031 on the saccharometer scale, 
and will keep for a long time. 

Strawberry Juice. 

The following method is adopted for obtaining 
an aromatic product :  

Small aromatic varieties, preferably mixed with one- 
third of wild strawberries are placed, with an equal 
weight of sugar, in suitable earthenware basins, and 
kept in a cool place, being repeatedly stirred. 

On the following day the whole mass is shaken 
out on to large cloths to enable the juice to drain 
away clear. This juice is then heated carefully to 
158 F., and poured, whilst hot, into larger or 
smaller glass jars, which are closed and sterilised 
for 20-30 minutes on the water-bath. The residual 
strawberries are used up in making cheap jams. 

Cherry Juice. 

Cherries for juice-making must first be passed 
through a fruit mill with adjustable wooden or 
stone rollers, in order to crush the whole of the 



FRUIT JELLIES 59 

fruit. It is also advisable to crush a portion of the 
stones as well. 

The resulting pulp is left 24-36 hours in suitable 
tubs before pressing. After pressing, the juice is 
left for awhile, then drawn off, treated with 16 per 
cent, of spirit, and placed in clean casks, which are 
kept full to the bung. 

Lemon Syrup. 

Sound ripe lemons are pressed, and the juice 
strained on a hair sieve ; then placed overnight in 
deep glass vessels, carefully poured into 10 gallon 
glass jars next day, heated on the water-bath, and 
closed up at once. 

To prepare syrup, 66 lb. of refined sugar are 
dissolved to a strong solution in water, mixed with 
10 gallons of lemon juice, and concentrated to 30. 
When the syrup has cooled down a Uttle, some 
lemon spirit is added, this having been prepared 
by digesting finely pared lemon peel with fine spirit 
in a glass bottle for several days. 

Orange Syrup. 

The crude juice is prepared in the same manner 
as lemon juice. For making the syrup, 66 lb. of 
refined sugar are taken to 20 gallons of orange 
juice and a suitable quantity of water, the whole 
being dissolved and treated with 1| pints of lemon 
spirit. After concentrating to 30, orange spirit 
(prepared from finely pared orange peel) is added. 



6o THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Pineapple Juice. 

Hothouse pineapples are peeled, cut up fine, and 
heated to very near boiling in 32 sugar (3 lb. to 1 
lb. of pineapple). After a short time the resulting 
syrup  which should measure 30**  is strained 
through flannel and filled into bottles. 

The residual pineapple slices can be extracted 
for second-quaUty juice, or used up in making 
pineapple marmalade. 



FRUIT PULP FOR ICES. 

Only the best and freshest fruit should be used 
in making pulp for this purpose, and the heating 
process should be performed as quickly as possible. 

In the case of berried fruits, fresh, thoroughly 
ripe berries should be pulped, mixed with 10 per 
cent, of refined sugar, raised to boiling-point, and 
immediately poured into bottles which are hermet- 
ically sealed and steriUsed like bottled fruit. The 
bottles should have been rinsed out with nearly 
boiling water just before use. 

With a little experience on the part of the 
operator the sterilising process may be omitted, 
but everything must be boiUng hot, and the closed 
bottles must be stood on their heads so as to compel 
the small amount of imprisoned air to rise through 
the boiling mass and thus be rendered harmless. 

For stone-fruit pulp, the fruit is heated to boiling 
with a Uttle water, then pulped in the machine and 
packed as above. 

For pineapple pulp the fresh fruit is necessary. 
The fruit is peeled, the eyes removed, and the rest 
cut into chunks, which are put through the coarse 
plate of a mincing machine, then pulped fine, mixed 
with 10 per cent, of sugar, and packed as above. 

6x 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL. 

The citron tree is indigenous to Sicily, Corsica, 
and certain of the Grecian islands. 

Orange peel is made from the rind of the bitter 
orange, another kind being made from sweet oranges. 
The latter can be bought, ready separated from the 
flesh, in Trieste and Messina, whilst the latter ports, 
Genoa and Leghorn, are the chief centres of the 
citron trade. 

Both fruits are gathered in our autumn and 
winter seasons, citron peel being often ready for 
sending out in December, whilst orange rinds come 
on the market up to April 

Citron peel is of two classes, according as it is 
separated from the flesh or not. The former kind 
is also known as table citron. 

The best, and usually dearest sort, comes from 
Corsica ; the Sicilian fruit is termed diamond citron ; 
and both these are used for preserving. 

To obtain a peel that is rich in sugar, tender and 
yet firm and transparent, it is necessary to follow 
the Italian practice of working with cold sugar, as 
described below. 

On opening the casks the brine is drawn off 
and replaced by fresh water, which is changed 

62 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 63 

several times. On the following day the fruit 
is placed in bright copper pans with plenty of 
water, and raised to boiling. After 2 hours' con- 
tinuous boiling the fruit is sufficiently blanched, 
the proper stage being reached when the core 
loosens easily on the fruit being placed in cold 
water. 

The fruit is then placed in cold water and 
the cores extracted by women or girls, pre- 
ferably by hand. The cleaned fruit is left in 
cold water till the next day to draw out all 
the salt. 

A cool room, preferably a cellar, is best for pre- 
serving ; and it should be close to the boiling-house 
so that the sugar solution can be sent down through 
a sheet metal pipe, thus economising time and 
material. 

The preserving room is fitted with strong wooden 
chests measuring 60 by 28 by 24 inches, lined with 
tinned sheet copper and fitted with a draw-off cock 
at the bottom. These chests are mounted on a 
suitable foundation. 

One corner of each chest is fitted with a perforated 
metal pipe in which a pump, like those used for 
petroleum barrels, can be placed. 

The citron fruit is laid on edge in the chests, but 
not packed too tightly ; then covered with a grating 
of lath weighted with clean stones, and a cold 10 
solution of sugar is poured in. Every day the weak 
sugar solution is pumped out and replaced by one 
5 stronger. 

The first sugar is usually allowed to run to 



64 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

waste, having extracted salt from the fruit and 
being poor in sugar. 

Of course the sugar solution removed by pumping 
is used over again ; but since a considerable surplus 
of sugar solution will accumulate in time it is 
advisible to regulate the work in such a manner 
that a fresh quantity of fruit is blanched every 
day, the weaker sugar solutions being used up for 
this purpose. 

As already mentioned, the sugar solution is 
run in cold, this being continued till the density 
reaches 35. Under this treatment a slight 
fermentation, revealed by the gradual ascent of 
bubbles of gas, begins when the density is about 
25. This fermentation is necessary to open 
the pores of the fruit and facilitate the penetra- 
tion of the sugar, this being the only way 
to obtain a product that will remain soft for 
any length of time. Should the fermentation 
be too powerful at 30, it is advisable to boil 
the fruit and sugar up together, return to the 
chest, and continue the treatment with hot 
sugar. The last two charges should contain 
one-third of syrup, so that the final sugar has the 
density 40. 

The fruit should remain in this sugar for at least 
6 weeks before it is glazed. 

For the glazing process the fruit is taken out of 
the sugar, boiled up with fresh 30 sugar, and 
placed overnight in suitable vessels. Next day it 
is laid on a grating and set in the drying-room 
for 2 days, the glazing being effected in the 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 65 

same manner as already described in the case of 
fruit. 

For table citron peel, the cored fruit is cooled, 
and peeled fairly thick by hand in cold water, and 
then treated as above. To obtain a brilliant white 
product it is advisable to sulphur the peeled fruit 
all night on wooden racks, all contact with iron 
being carefully avoided. 

The peel may also be cut up into pieces the size 
of orange peel, or may be preserved whole and sold 
to gingerbread makers. 

Orange peel is always made by the hot process 
in small vessels holding about | 1 cwt. 

The peel is blanched for 1 J 2 hours, then cooled 
and trimmed up to remove any residual flesh. 
This can be done before the peel is laid in the 
preserving vessel. 

The peel is arranged in circles, but not very 
tightly, so that the sugar can penetrate to all parts. 
The first sugar should have the density 15, the 
subsequent charges being 5 stronger every time. 
The fruit and sugar are finally boiled up together, 
and when cold are laid in the storage boxes 
in rings. Glazing is performed in the same 
manner as for citron, after the peel has been 
dried in the drying-room. 

Orange Peel. 

This peel is mostly to be bought with the flesh 
already removed, but can also be obtained with the 
flesh in, the oranges being merely halved. In this 
5 



66 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

condition about one-third will have to be allowed 
for waste. 

The fruit is drained, then rinsed with plenty of 
water to remove impurities and fibres, and blanched 
for 2-2 1 hours in a bright copper pan. When 
cooled, it is placed in wooden tubs holding about 
2 cwt. each, and is covered with hot 1 5 sugar and 
weighted down. Next day the sugar is run off and 
not used again, its place being taken by a hot 
20 solution, and the third day by one of 30 
strength. 

After another 24 hours the sugar drawn off is 
mixed with enough sugar to increase the strength 
to 35", this being added to the peel and well boiled 
up, so that the whole has a clear appearance 

The cooled peel is drained, put into a storage 
cask, and covered with the sugar, which has mean- 
while been concentrated to 38. 

For glazing, the drained peel is boiled in 36 
sugar and placed in suitable wicker baskets, being 
then glazed as already described for fruit. 

Candying is performed in the same manner 
as for candied fruit, i.e. as warm as possible, a 
certain amount of experience being necessary in 
order to obtain a product of good appearance 
and keeping properties. 

Neutralin. 

Eleven lb. of sodium sulphite are dissolved in 
3\ gallons of hot water, and the solution is stored 
in glass bottles, 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 67 

This solution is the best adjunct to the blanch- 
ing water in the case of any fruit that is 
desired to remain pale in colour. The quantity 
used is about one-tenth per cent, of the water 
employed. 



PART II. 
PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 

General Remarks. 

In addition to the provision of the raw materials, 
the water question plays an important part. 

As a rule, any tap  or other drinking water fit 
for that purpose, will also be suitable for preserving 
vegetables, provided it be free from any large 
quantity of iron and entirely free from ammonia. 
Traces of the latter are not prohibitory, and in all 
cases a trial should be made to see whether the 
water will really do, since the author has often 
found practice superior to theory in this connection. 

Owing to the large consumption of water at 
intervals during the vegetable season, it is advisable 
to provide a large tank, even where water is laid on, 
in order to have a sufficient supply. This tank 
may be of strong timber, lined with thin, tinned 
copper, and is mounted either in the boiling-house 
or near the cooler. The best situation is in the 
roof, where it is supported on iron girders let into 
the walls, or it may be placed in a room over the 
boihng-house. 

This tank, which is filled from the main, is 
fitted with a 1 1 inch draw-ofP pipe and tap leading 



72 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

to the cooler, so that plenty of water can be 
obtained at any time without delay. 

The blanched vegetables must in all cases be 
cooled with a large volume of water, renewed 
several times, in order to preserve the flavour. 
Einsing and draining also remove the surplus copper 
when the vegetables have been coloured green. 

Special attention should also be bestowed on the 
cooling device. Formerly it was the custom to 
use zinc-lined wooden tanks, the cage containing 
the boiled vegetables being lowered into the tanks, 
and water admitted from below, so that the warm, 
dirty water ran off at the top. 

New coolers of special type have recently been 
introduced into French practice, the cooling water 
running in at one side and out at the other ; and 
this plan has been found to answer. The cooler, 
mounted on six strong iron feet, consists of a zinc- 
lined box, somewhat lower on the side at which the 
water enters than on the other, an overflow being 
provided on the latter so that the level of the 
water coincides exactly with the upper edge of the 
other side of the box. The appliance should be 
about 10 feet long by 3 feet wide, and placed in 
such a position that the waste water can run away 
easily into the drain. The blanched vegetables are 
placed in loose, inner boxes of tinned iron with 
perforated bottoms, the holes, however, being small 
enough to prevent the escape of even the smallest 
peas. Each cooler of the foregoing dimensions will 
take six loose boxes 3 feet long, 1 6 inches wide, and 
3 J inches deep, provided with strong sheet -iron 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 73 

feet (six in number) at the comers and in the middle, 
so that the loose boxes are in contact with the 
cooling water on all sides. 

The cooling water entering on one side of the 
cooler comes in contact with the vegetables on its 
way to the overflow, and carries away all impurities. 
Owing to the way in which the vegetables to be 
cooled are spread out, any skins, threads, particles 
of wood, etc., are easily removed. 

In the corner of the cooler at the overflow is a 
draw-off tap, to enable the cooler to be cleaned out 
conveniently after use. 

The cooler should be mounted so that the head 
(feed) end is against the wall, so as to leave room 
for working on both sides. 

The question of colouring vegetables has been 
dealt with in various ways in the legislative 
enactments of different coimtries. The author will 
describe the method of colouring practised in 
France. Where this method is not allowed by 
law, colouring must either be omitted, or else 
performed with chlorophyll  a troublesome and 
unreliable process. 

The filled tins must be cooled down by placing 
them on a stone floor in a suitable room. Here 
they are left all night, and are cleaned up next 
morning before being transferred to store. All 
tins whose Kds have not become concave or are 
still springy must be put aside as imperfect. The 
use of water for cooling is wrong, apart from 
the fact that it faciHtates rusting at the lapped 
edges. 



74 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The only exception is in the case of asparagus, 
water being used for cooling on the pretext that 
the colour stands better. The author, however, 
after trying both, found no appreciable difference 
between them. 

The three chief factors in the preparation of 
preserved vegetables are: large enough plant, 
suitable raw materials, and scrupulous cleanliness 
in working. 

It must also not be forgotten that the tins 
play a very important part, and should be ob- 
tained from a reputable maker. In very large 
preserving works it will be better to make the 
tins on the premises. 

Peas, beans, and cabbage, are blanched in per- 
forated copper cages, fitting into the boiling pans 
so that the handles project at the top and the 
cages easily lifted out. 

Carrots, cauliflower, kohlrabi, and other light 
coloured vegetables, should be blanched in tinned 
iron cages ; and the boiling pans should be 
tinned inside. 

Asparagus requires special loose cages of per- 
forated tinplate, of circular shape, the same 
depth as the length of the prepared asparagus, 
and covered with a lid. These trays are placed 
on a tinned iron grid, fitted at the sides with 
movable hooks so that the grid can be set higher 
or deeper in the water in blanching. 

The asparagus cages are first set at such a depth 
in the water that only the lower ends of the 
sticks are wetted ; and only when the operation 




^ 

s 



09 

I 
to 

a 

I 

I 



2 



76 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

is drawing near a close are the cages lowered 
so as to submerge the top part of the sticks 
and the heads. In this way a decidedly superior 
product is obtained. 

All the filling liquor should be boiled with the 
necessary adjuncts in a morning, and turned into 
large clean vessels for any impurities to settle 
down. If no other course is open, the filling 
liquor is used without boiling, experience show- 
ing that it has no influence on the preserve. 
However, the former method is the sole means 
of obtaining a clear Kquor. 

Greened vegetables should not be exposed to 
direct sunlight, or the colour will be injured ; and 
such vegetables should be worked up as quickly 
as possible. 

In storing the filled tins, care should be taken 
to keep the Kds underneath, i.e. the tins are 
stood on their heads  in the case of asparagus, 
because it is necessary that the heads of the 
asparagus should be upright. 

In sterilising the tins the autoclave (Fig. 7) 
is filled nearly one-third fuU of water, the cage con- 
taining the tins is introduced, and a little steam is 
admitted. The heating of the tins should proceed 
slowly, so that by the time the water is boiling, 
the contents of the tins will have attained the 
same temperature. Until this point is reached 
the air tap on the lid is left open to allow all 
the cold air to escape. The tap being then 
closed, the pointer on the pressure gauge will 
move over the dial till the desired degree is 




Fig. 7.  Autoclave. 

77 



78 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

attained, whereupon the valve is adjusted to 
maintain the pressure at that level ; and when 
the proper time has elapsed, the steam is shut 
off, the valves opened, and the cage taken out. 

When the above precautions are followed, there 
is no need for the fluctuations of temperature, so 
often read about in autoclaves. 



Asparasrus. 

The fresh asparagus is sorted out according to 
quality, laid in fresh water, and after being peeled, 
is packed tightly in the blanching cage and boiled 
as described in pure water without any salt. A 
few loose stalks in the pan will show the boiler 
when the proper stage of boiling has been reached, 
ie, when the stalks can be easily beut between 
the thumb and forefinger. The cage is then 
placed in plenty of running water (cold) until 
properly cooled, whereupon the stalks are taken 
out and packed in the tins. 

For this purpose a sufficient number of selected 
stalks are grasped in the left hand, the right hand 
holding the tin, and are inserted into the tin 
head first, any additional stalks required to fill 
the tin being put in separately. 

The filling liquor consists of boiled 2 per cent, 
salt water. Asparagus of the most delicate quality 
is preferably sterilised in an open water-bath, 
the small tins being treated for 55 minutes, 
medium size ones 120 minutes, and the largest 
150 minutes. 




^ 



8o THE PRESERVING OF. FRUIT 

Less delicate sorts, and such as have been kept 
for a time must, however, be sterilised in the 
autoclave for 15 minutes, the two smaller sizes at 
235' F., and the largest at 240 F. 

In the cooling process the tins are stood on 
their heads. 

Peas. 

The peas having been shelled in the machine 
(Figs. 8 and 9) are placed in a sorting machine, 
which is run at a low speed in order to ensure 
uniform classification. 

The first boiling of the finer sorts takes 4-5 
minutes, the larger sizes a little longer. The 
freshness and quality of the peas must always 
be taken into consideration, so that no definite 
rule can be laid down. The best method of 
boiling is to take about 45 lb. at a time, 
these being placed in a suitable copper cage. 
The pan is charged with about 13 gallons of 
water, and as soon as this is boiling, an ounce 
of copper sulphate is added and the cage intro- 
duced. Boiling is continued briskly until finished, 
the scum being stirred and removed with a suitable 
wooden spoon. The peas are taken out and cooled 
for packing. 

The filling liquor consists of water containing 
2 per cent, of salt and an equal amount of 
sugar. 

To carry on the filling process quickly and 
uniformly the peas are turned into a tinned 
iron box of suitable size, fitted with handles 




S 



I 
OS 

6 



82 



THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 



on both sides. The filling liquor is poured into 
this box, and the tins are filled by dipping 
them into the mass and stroking the surplus 
peas oflF with the hand. The method is easy, its 
advantages being apparent to <i beginner in the 
first few minutes. 




Fio. 10.  Truck for conveying tins. 

The tins are placed on trays, fitted on three 
sides with a border 3 inches deep but open on the 
fourth. Two holes for the hands are cut out 
on the right and left. Each tray should 
accommodate twenty 1| pint tins or thirty- 
five f pint tins. 



84 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The trays are placed on a truck (Fig. 10), 
and taken to the closing machine (Fig. 11), 
which may be of the single- or double-lever type, 
either being eflBcient. 

From this machine the closed tins are placed 
direct in the cages, which are also placed on 
trucks (Fig. 12) to facilitate conveyance to the 
autoclave. 

The smallest tins must be sterilised for 15 
minutes at 230 F., the IJ pint tins for 20 




Fig. 12.  Truck for conveying cages. 

minutes at 235 F., and the 3 pint tins for 
25 minutes at the last-named temperature. 

To prevent the larger kinds of peas from jelly- 
ing, it is advisable to add one-tenth per cent, of 
sodium carbonate to the filling liquor. 

In colouring peas with chlorophyll, very soft 
water or rain water is used, and all the vessels 
employed must be tinned or enamelled. For 
every 45 lb. of peas, 5| gallons of water are 
heated to 195 F., 14 oz. of the colouring matter 
being added and the peas poured in. The tempera- 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 85 

ture is then raised to boiling-point, the peas being 
stirred with a wooden ladle, and the colouring 
matter is allowed to react for 12 to 15 minutes, 
without actual boiling. . After cooling and HUing, 
the peas are sterilised in the usual way. 

Beans. 

The most suitable kinds of young, uncut beans, 
are the Haricot flageolet noir and Merveille de 
Paris of Vilmorin Andrieux & Co., Paris. These 
are broken off, top and bottom, by hand (without a 
knife), since at that stage of ripeness they are not 
stringy, and are sorted into two sizes, any very 
coarse specimens being laid on one side. The next 
stage is blanching in copper cages, as described for 
peas, except that only three-fourths of the amount 
of copper sulphate is taken. When cold, the beans 
are turned into tinplate boxes and filled into J lb. 
and 1 lb. tins. The packer keeps a quantity of 
beans of uniform size ready to hand, to form a top 
layer and improve the appearance of the goods 
when the tins are opened. The filling liquor is 
water containing 2 per cent, of salt and boiled 
with a little bean foliage. 

The J lb. tins should be sterilised for 1 minutes 
at 230 F., the 1 lb. tins for 12 minutes at the 
same temperature, and 2 lb. tins for 16 minutes 
at 235 F. 

Flagfeolet Beans. 

The best kind is Vilmorin Andrieux & Go's. 
Haricot flageolet Chevrieux, which is distinguished 



86 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

by its beautiful pale green colour, and possesses 
all the properties that can be expected from a 
preserved flageolet bean. 

The beans can be sheUed and sorted in the 
machine, but extra screens are required for this 
purpose. The beans are colouied in the same . 
proportion as peas, but the operation must be 
started with cold water, and the temperature 
slowly raised to boiling. The smaller kinds are 
blanched for 78 minutes, the larger ones for 810 
minutes. 

The tins are filled only about four-fifths full, and 
plenty of liquor is added, the beans swelling up 
during sterilisation. 

The filling liquor contains 2f per cent, of salt 
and a little soda (at the rate of about IJ oz. per 
10 gallons). 

First quality goods should be sterilised at 230 F., 
the half tins for 20 minutes, and the whole tins 
for 25 minutes; for seconds the temperature is 
235 F. 

Sliced Beans. 

These are sliced in the machine (Fig. 13) and 
treated as already described. It is advisable to 
weigh the quantities put into the tins, in order to 
ensure uniform packing. 

French Beans. 

Young, tender beans are left whole, but larger 
sizes are cut into two to three pieces. Blanching 







87 



88 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

and sterilising are performed in the same way as for 
other beans. 

Carrots. 

Freshly pulled carrots are trimmed otf, top and 
bottom, and cleaned in a machine (Fig. 14), ie, 
the thin skin is removed, this being best effected 
while the carrots are still fresh and have been 
scalded in soda and water. The roots are separated 




Fig. 14.  Carrot-cleauiiig machine. 

into two or three grades before blanching, this last 
operation being performed in tinned pans until 
the carrots are soft right through. 

The same filling liquor is used as for peas ; and 
the best quality carrots are sterilised for 20 
minutes, the small tins at 230 F., and the large 
ones at 235 F., the second quality being treated 
for 25 minutes at these temperatures. 

A mixture of peas and carrots, packed in 
alternate layers in the tins, is highly appreciated. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 89 

Spinach. 

Spinach may be left in the natural state, or 
coloured like peas. After boiling and cooling, 
it is chopped fine in a machine, and then mixed 
with salt and meat broth (or water) for packing 
into the tins. A previous heating to boiUng is 
advantageous, as is also hot filling. Sterilising 
is performed at 245 R, half tins for 20 
minutes, whole tins for 25 minutes, and double- 
size tins for ^ an hour. 

Artichokes. 

A distinction is drawn between whole artichokes 
and artichoke crowns. For the first-named, the 
small, young artichokes are boiled for about 10 
minutes in plenty of water, then cooled and 
packed. Weak salt and water is used as filling 
liquor. The sterilising process is the same as for 
beans. 

Artichoke crowns require greater care in pre- 
paration. The peeling of the crowns is best 
performed in a special machine, such as that made 
by Navarre, of Paris. 

When working in small quantities, without a 
machine, the leaves are removed and the inner 
crown scraped out with a suitable knife, peeled 
nice and round from the outside, and placed at 
once in hot water containing neutralin. The 
crowns are then blanched, in small quantities at 
a time, in the same careful manner as asparagus, 



go THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

ie, in tinplate cages, cooled, and packed in 
asparagus tins. The larger crowns are put into 
large tins, the smaller into small ones. The 
usual method of packing is in deep quarter tins 
(the same shape as for mushrooms), and in the 
small and medium size asparagus tins, no larger 
sizes being used. 

The filling liquor consists of 11 gallons of water, 
2i lb. of salt, and If oz. of citric acid crystals. 

Artichoke crowns are sterilised on the water- 
bath, the small tins being heated for 50 minutes 
after the boiling-point has been reached, and the 
large tins for 75 minutes. 

All contact of the crowns with iron must be 
avoided; and the greatest cleanliness must be 
observed throughout. 

Tomatoes. 

Whole tomatoes are preserved in asparagus tins, 
undamaged fruit being selected in sizes suitable 
for the tins. 

The tomatoes are wiped clean with a cloth, put 
into the tins without pressure, and covered with 
weak brine. The filled tins are heated slowly on 
the water-bath, the smaller sizes for 5 minutes 
(reckoned from boiling-point) and the larger for 
10 minutes. 

The tins are left to cool down without touching 
them, or the fruit will not remain whole ; and for 
the same reason great care is necessary in storing 
them. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 91 

Tomato 'purie is an article that can be made in 
large quantities, and enjoys ever increasing popu- 
larity. To be successful it must be prepared from 
fully ripe fruit ; and it is owing to the suitability 
of southern climates for tomato cultivation that 
the best fruit is obtained from Italy, France, 
Hungary, and warm countries generally. The fruit 
is first crushed in a mill, between stone rollers, 
the stalks having of course been taken off before- 
hand. The resulting pulp is placed in large tinned 
copper pans and heated to boiling, and then 
strained through a machine, being afterwards 
returned to the same pans and heated, with 
stirring, until three-fifths of the total weight has 
evaporated, 100 parts of tomatoes furnishing 40 of 
finished pulp. 

This pulp, which, if desired, can be stained with 
tomato-red, is then filled hot into tins or glass 
bottles, which are closed and sterilised on the 
water-bath like fruit compote. If intended for 
storage in bulk, the pulp is filled hot into \ cwt. 
tins previously rinsed out with boiling water. The 
fiUed tins are closed at once, turned upside down, 
and left to cool. 

These tins are fitted with lapped, or preferably 
soldered, ends, a 2 -inch hole being left in the upper 
end for the introduction of the boiling pulp, and 
then covered with a small lid which is soldered 
down. 

The pulp may also be stored in glass carboys 
holding 8-10 gallons, these vessels being 
thoroughly cleansed and kept ready filled with 



92 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

hot water. When the pulp is ready, it is turned 
into a suitable pan to cool down a little, and is 
then filled into the just emptied hot glass vessels. 
The latter are stoppered with plugs of cotton 
wool, previously soaked in salicylic acid, and are 
then put into store. 

Mixed Vegfetables (Macedoine). 

Fifty lb. of large carrots, cut in long slices, 
20 lb. of young beans, sliced, and 50 cabbage 
turnips (kohlrabi), also cut. A portion of the 
carrots and kohlrabi may be shaped in the press. 
These having been blanched are put into a large 
vessel with 3 J gallons of No. III. peas and the 
same quantity of flageolet beans II. (both washed 
with warm water and weak brine), then filled into 
tins and sterilised as in the case of beans. 

Tinned Julienne. 

Forty-four lb. of large carrots, 22 lb. of white 
cabbage, 5 heads of celery, 2 J lb. of leeks, 6 J lb. 
of beans, 1 lb. of parsnips, 1 onions, and an equal 
number of cabbage turnips. 

These are all shredded, boiled separately, and 
finally mixed with 4 J gallons of No. II. peas 
(washed) and packed. Sterilising and filling liquor 
the same as above. 

Inferior qualities can, of course, be prepared by 
omitting some of the ingredients ; or better qualities 
by the addition of morels, etc. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 93 

Leipzig: All-Sorts. 

This is a mixture of peas, asparagus, cauliflower, 
carrots, and morels, several grades being prepared 
according to the quality of the peas. The usual 
proportions are : peas, 6 per cent. ; carrots, 2 6 per 
cent. ; asparagus, 1 5 per cent. ; and morels, 5 per cent. 
The latter if unobtainable fresh may be used in the 
dried state, being then softened, washed repeatedly, 
and blanched the same as if fresh. Fresh carrots 
and peas are generally used, with tinned asparagus. 

Celery Chunks. 

Small and medium size heads are dismembered, 
thoroughly cleaned with water and a brush, then 
blanched in water for 10 minutes, peeled and cut 
into chunks. The latter are left to bleach for 
several hours in water containing 1 per cent, of 
citric acid, taken out and packed in tins. The 
filling liquor consists of weak brine, also containing 
a Httle citric acid. The 1 ^ pint tins are sterilised 
for 25 to 30 minutes at 230 F. 

Mushrooms. 

The mushrooms are obtained from France in 
casks during the winter months, or rather from 
September to March. On arrival, the casks are 
opened and the contents washed for several hours 
in plenty of running water. 

Neutralin is added in blanching, the mushrooms 



94 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

being boiled for about 20 minutes, with frequent 
skimming, and cooled in fresh water. They are 
next sorted into three sizes, the smallest being put 
into the smallest tins, and so on. A 1| pint tin 
is reckoned to hold about 1 lb., and the smaller sizes 
in exact proportion, all being carefully weighed. 

The filling liquor is prepared in advance, 22 
gallons of water being boiled and treated to an 
addition of 4 J lb. of salt, 3| oz. of citric acid 
crystals. The 1 1 pint and | pint tins are sterilised 
for 50 minutes at 235 F., and the smaller sizes for 
45 minutes at 230 F. 

"When fresh mushrooms are supplied they must 
be cleaned, trimmed off at the bottom, and freed 
from the brown skin by means of caustic soda. 

Edible Boletus. 

These fungi, which are often used in place of 
mushrooms, must first be cleaned up by removing 
the lamellae under the pileus, then skinned and cut 
up into suitable sHces. The sound stalks are also 
used. 

In other respects the treatment is exactly the 
same as for mushrooms. 

Morels, Orange Agaric (Lactarium), 
Chanterelles, etc. 

These are cleaned up, washed, and well blanched 
in plenty of water, the scum being carefully 
removed. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 95 

After cooling, they are packed in tins, covered 
with brine the same as other vegetables, and 
sterilised as above. 



Pickled Mushrooms. 

The mushrooms are prepared as already de- 
scribed, packed with good wine vinegar, and 
sterilised, the IJ pint tins taking 30 minutes. 

Truffles. 

Fresh French or Italian truffles are sorted into 
two qualities by cutting a small piece out of each 
truffle with a sharp knife, the truffles with dark 
flesh being classed as prime, the paler kinds as 
seconds. They are then scrubbed in warm water, 
preferably by hand, and carefully blanched for J of 
an hour with white wine in a tinned or enamelled 
pan, J of a pint of wine being taken to a pound of 
truffles. 

The next step is to spread them out on a clean 
metal tray to cool, after which they are weighed 
into the tins. The half tins are reckoned to hold 
7 oz., and the smaller sizes in exact proportion. 
Sterilising takes 30-40 minutes at 230 F., ac- 
cording to size. The filling liquor consists of the 
wine used for blanching, supplemented by as much 
fresh wine as is required. 

If necessary, the truffles may also be skinned 
with a sharp knife, the skins being also preserved 
to form a spice for patties, truffled sausage, etc. 



96 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Pickled Gherkins (Cornichons). 

The raw material is an important factor, and 
should always be obtained from a reliable firm, 
such as Vilmorin Andrieux & Co., 4 Quai de la 
Megisserie, Paris. 

The stalks are cut off and the gherkins sorted 
into three sizes. They are then carefully washed 
and packed into suitable clean barrels. Dill may 
be used as spice, but nothing else. 

A pickle is poured over them, consisting of 12 
per cent, brine containing 25 per cent, of good wine 
vinegar ; and the barrels are set out in the sun, 
in a yard or other warm place, with the bung-holes 
open, so as to quickly start a slight fermentation. 
When this has run its course, the casks are cleaned 
up, filled to the top with the same liquor if necessary, 
and bunged down. 

For use, the gherkins are taken out of the barrels, 
washed, and packed with fresh wine vinegar spiced 
with tarragon. When it is desired to keep these 
small gherkins stored in the barrels for a long period, 
the fermented pickle should be run off and replaced 
by fresh 12 per cent, brine. 

Salted Gherkins. 

The proper selection of the raw material is also 
important in this case, and recent experience has 
shown the advisability of pricking the gherkins in 
a machine at the outset. 

The gherkins are washed clean, wiped dry with 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 97 

a clean cloth, and placed in well-cleaned wine casks 
of hard wood. A layer of vine and morella cherry 
leaves and dill flowers is placed at the bottom, 
another being used to cover the gherkins, and a 
third one intermediate between the others. The 
filled barrels are headed, a 5 per cent, brine being 
poured in through the bung-hole, and the barrels, 
loosely bunged, are set in a warm place or in the 
sun until fermentation is terminated. They are 
then cleaned up, any deficiency of brine being made 
good, and the bungs driven home, the barrels being 
placed in the cellar, where they are rolled several 
times before being placed in their final position. 

Gherkins in Mustard. 

Large, ripe, firm-fleshed gherkins are skinned, cut 
in halves, the core removed, and then cut into long 
strips. These are placed in tubs and well-sprinkled 
with salt, so as to form sufficient brine, in which 
the gherkins are left for several days. 

The gherkins are then washed, packed in barrels 
with yellow mustard seed, a few laurel leaves and 
white peppercorns, small onions, sliced horse radish 
and shredded ginger, sufficient boiling wine vinegar 
being poured in to cover the whole. After a few 
days the vinegar is drawn off, boiled up, and re- 
turned to the barrels, the contents of which are 
then heavily weighted. The vinegar, however, must 
not be allowed to fall below 4 per cent., or it will 
have to be supplemented. In 34 weeks the 
gherkins should be clear and translucent. 



98 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Mixed Pickles. 

These are a mixture of young, tender vegetables, 
preserved separately, each at its proper season, and 
stored (preferably in large glass jars) for mixing 
later on. 

Small gherkins, young corn cobs, pickling onions, 
green and red capsicums, cauliflower, young beans, 
French beans, and French carrots, form the chief 
ingredients of the mixture, large capers and salted 
olives being also used by some makers. 

All the vegetables are lightly blanched and left 
to stand for several days in strong brine in order 
to ensure their keeping. They are then put in 
jars with good vinegar, warmed up in the water- 
bath, and closed up. The vegetables may, however, 
be stored separately in brine in the case of very 
large quantities. 

For packing in bottles or other receptacles, good 
4 per cent, wine vinegar is used, this being spiced 
with an extract prepared in the following manner :  
To 2 ^ gallons of vinegar add 1 8 oz. of black pepper, 
9 oz. of ginger, 9 oz. of salt, 5 oz. of pimento or 
English spice, 3 oz. of white pepper, a few laurel 
leayes, and a little tarragon, allowing the mixture 
to draw for 1 4 days in the warm, and then filtering. 
In all cases it is important to carefully heat the 
filled bottles on the water-bath before closing. 

Piccalilli. 

The mixed pickles are packed with the following 
preparation instead of vinegar :  2i lb. of best 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 99 

English mustard powder are stirred up with a pint 
of best olive oil, and to this is added 2| lb. of 
castor sugar, J lb. of salt, and 34 pints of good 
vinegar, with | pint of curry vinegar. 

This latter is prepared from 3J oz. of turmeric, 
4 oz. of coriander, 1 oz. of black pepper, 1 oz. of 
ginger, | oz. of cardamoms, 1 oz. of carraway seeds, 
and ^ oz. of cayenne pepper (all powdered), with 
2 J gallons of wine vinegar. 

When all has been thoroughly mixed together 
the sauce is strained through a hair sieve. 



PART III. 

PRESERVED MEATS. 



PART III. 

PRESERVED MEATS. 



PRESERVED MEATS. 

In this section we shall deal, not with the 
manufacture of preserved meats on a large scale, 
but with the preparation of potted meats for 
tourists, and similar articles which can be profitably 
made in small works, the season for them falling at 
a slack time of the year. 

An ordinary fireplace, preferably fitted with a 
hot hearth, will be quite sufficient, with a few large 
and small iron pans, a mincing machine, and a few 
perforated cages. 

The recipes given are easy to carry out, but 
three main rules must be observed : best meat, 
best adjuncts, and scrupulous cleanliness. 

The tins used should be those that can be 
opened easily with a key supplied for the purpose, 
the older form of tins being more difficult to sell 
nowadays. 

The meat, whether boiled or roast, should be 
well cooked so that it shows no redness when cut 
through. Koast meat should be well browned, so 
as to have the characteristic aroma. Any vege- 
tables used as garnish must be only slightly 
blanched. 

The bones, sinews, and fat must be made into 
103 



I04 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

strong stock for the preparation of the sauces or 
gravies. 

The meat is weighed into the tins in all cases, 
a quarter tin, weighing nearly 10 oz. gross, always 
containing at least J lb. of meat, except when 
garnished, in which case the meat will be about 
i oz. less. 

Best lard, preferably home-made, is used as fat, 
and any butter prescribed should be best fresh. 
Quarter tins should be sterilised for 50 minutes at 
230 F., except in the case of veal or sausage, for 
which 45 minutes will suflBce. 

On removal from the autoclave, the tins are 
merely well rinsed over, and then set one upon 
another, lids up, to cooL Next day they are 
thoroughly cleaned with sawdust, examined, and 
put into store. 

Veal Cutlets. 

The cutlets are trimmed, the bone chopped 
off as close as possible, the meat sprinkled with 
salt and roasted in equal quantities of butter 
and fat. One cutlet is put into each tin, with 
a gravy prepared from the surplus roasting fat 
and a little flour. 



Veal Cutlets and Peas. 

The preparation is the same as above, except 
that green peas, prepared with fresh butter and 
chopped parsley, are added. Tinned or bottled 
peas may also be used. 



PRESERVED MEATS 105 

Pricandeau of Veal and Rolled Veal. 

The fricandeau is made of boned leg of veal, 
well larded, and the roulade of boned shoulder and 
breast. The prepared meat is roasted in fat, and 
cut in suitable pieces when cold. Peas are 
frequently added as garnish. 

The gravy is made of equal parts of butter and 
fat, heated and stirred up with flour, the surplus 
roasting fat and a sufficient amount of stock being 
added. The whole is gradually raised to boiling 
over a slow fire, a little pitr6e of tomatoes being 
finally added. 

Roast Veal. 

Boned leg of veal, with the usual adjuncts, is 
roasted, cut up, and packed in tins with gravy. 

Veal Qoulasch. 

Shoulder, breast, and leg of veal are boned and 
cut up into pieces the size of walnuts. Onions, in 
the proportion of 18 oz. to every 22 lb. of meat, 
are fried to a light yellow in their own weight of 
lard, and then mixed with the meat, the requisite 
amount of salt, and a tablespoonful of red capsicum, 
the whole being boiled with a little gravy until 
cooked through. Of coiirse the mixture is kept 
stirred all the time. 

When finished, the meat is placed on a suitable 
sieve and packed, each tin receiving 4 oz. of meat 
and being then filled up with the sauce. An 
addition of tomato pur4e is also recommended. 



io6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Calf's Head en Tortue. 

The cleaned calf s head is cut in two and left 
to soak in fresh water overnight. Next morning 
it is blanched for IJ hours in weak brine, the 
flesh being taken oflf the bones when cold, and 
packed into the tins. 

A white sauce, containing plenty of white wine, 
is prepared, mixed with tomato 'puHe and strongly 
spiced. This sauce is poured over the meat, 
chopped truffles, mushrooms, and stoned salt olives, 
being added as a garnish. 

Servian Rice Meat. 

Selected veal from the leg and shoulder is cut 
up and boiled the same as for goulasch. Mean- 
while one-fourth the quantity of best rice is half 
boiled, well salted, and mixed with the meat, 
without gravy. The whole is filled into tins and 
topped with the same sauce as for goulasch. 

Beef Goulasch. 

Any odd joints, such as neck, brisket, ribs, etc., 
can be usfed, all the fat and gristle being removed, 
the meat cut up into cubes, whilst all the bones, 
sinews, etc., are made into strong broth, which must 
be ready at the same time as the meat, for which 
it is to serve as gravy. 

To every \ cwt. of cut meat 10 lb. of chopped 
onions are well browned with 4^ lb. of beef fat. 



PRESERVED MEATS 107 

The meat is added, with a suitable quantity of 
broth, and the whole boiled for about 25 minutes, 
with constant stirring. Finally about 2| oz. of 
capsicums and 1| lb. of salt are added. The flesh 
is placed on sieves, weighed, cut, and packed along 
with enough gravy to cover it completely. 

Bouillon Meat. 

A strong broth must first be prepared by boiling 
marrow bones for 6-8 hours, and in this broth the 
meat, preferably from the hindquarters and cut 
into pieces weighing 78 lb., is boiled gently for 
1^-2 hours, so as to be well cooked right through. 

An hour beforehand there should have been 
placed in the pan a net containing spices to the 
amount of f lb. of parsley root, 2f lb. of yellow 
turnips, an equal quantity of leeks, 4 J lb. of celery, 
J lb. of onions, f oz. of peppercorns, f oz. of nut- 
meg, and a few broken laurel leaves, per cwt. of 
meat. When the meat is taken out to cool the 
broth is well salted, concentrated a little if necessary, 
and strained through flannel, the fat being carefully 
skimmed off. This bouillon should set to a jelly 
on cooling. 

The meat is cut into suitable pieces, weighed, 
packed, and covered with the bouillon. 

Roast Beef. 

A roasting joint or suitable cut from the hind- 
quarters is freed from skin, cleaned, rubbed with 



io8 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

salt and pepper, and roasted in small pieces with 
the usual spices, the gravy being thickened to a 
sauce with bone broth and a Httle flour, coloured 
with burnt sugar if necessary. 

Roast Beef and Onions or Sardines. 

Eoasting joints are cut up into suitable sizes, 
the pieces being salted and peppered and roasted in 
a mixture of butter and fat. When placed in the 
tins, the meat is covered with lightly browned 
slices of onion, or with a sardine cut in halves, and 
the corresponding sauce. 

Steak and Potatoes. 

Sirloin is skinned, cut into suitable pieces, beaten, 
salted and peppered, and roasted quickly in butter ; 
then placed in the tins, garnished with a few small 
baked potatoes, and poured over with the surplus 
roasting fat. 

Hung^arian Sirloin. 

The sirloin is prepared as above, larded with 
strips of bacon rolled in red capsicimis, and roasted. 
When done, the meat is cooled, cut into suitable 
pieces, and put into tins with the gravy. 

Sz^kely Qoulasch. 

Ijcan pork, preferably the belly parts freed from 
fat, is boned, cut into cubes, and prepared in the 



PRESERVED MEATS 109 

same manner as beef goulasch, except that a 
smaller amount of capsicums is taken. 

Meanwhile a quantity of sauerkraut is prepared, 
equal portions of this and the goulasch being placed 
in the tins. Tomato pierce is added to the goulasch 
sauce. 



Ox Tongue with Pur6e of Peas or Sauerkraut. 

The fresh tongues must first be pickled {see 
Pickled Tongue), or else pickled tongues are 
purchased from the butcher. They must be boiled 
for about 2 hours to enable the skin to be removed. 

In the meantime a well-spiced pur4e is made of 
shelled peas, with plenty of fat, and with this the 
tins are filled half full. The tongue is cut into 
pieces about 4 oz. each, and these are placed in the 
tins and covered with browned butter. 

Another method is to fill the tins half full of 
prepared sauerkraut and lay the slices of tongue on 
top. 

Ribs of Pork and Sauerkraut. 

Smoked ribs of pork are slowly boiled for about 
} of an hour, divided into \ lb. pieces, and placed 
in tins already half full of sauerkraut. 



Vienna Sausage and Sauerkraut. 

The sausages, which must be perfectly fresh, are 
first placed in hot water, and packed into tins (three to 
four in each) which are then filled up with sauerkraut. 



no THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

About 1 cwt. of raw sauerkraut is used per 
1000 tins. This quantity is boiled in a tinned 
pan, and at the end of an hour is mixed with 2 J lb. 
of flour fried in an equal quantity of lard, another 
7 lb. of lard being added to the sauerkraut by 
degrees. 

Beef k la Mode. 

Leg of beef is laid in a pickle, half vinegar and 
half water, spiced with onions, laurel, lemon slices, 
and pepper, for several days, then stewed with 
plenty of fat, cut into sHces and put into tins with 
the gravy, the piquant flavour being heightened by 
adding white wine. Young or preserved carrots 
and half-boiled potato cubes are added as a garnish. 

Roast Hare and Macaroni. 

The hare is cut up, freed from skin, and the 
best joints, back and hind legs, are placed in pickle 
for a few days. This pickle is made by boiling 
vinegar with twice its volume of water, a few sUces 
of onion and lemon, juniper berries, laurel leaves, 
and rosemary, with the necessary amount of salt, 
the meat being introduced when the pickle is cold. 

After pickling, the meat is dried, well larded, 
and roasted with lard. The resulting gravy is 
prepared with plenty of aour cream, and strained 
like all sauces. The cold hare is cut into suitable 
pieces, and put into the tins along with the sauce. 
Macaroni broken into small pieces, boiled till half 
soft in water, and then larded with good fresh 



PRESERVED MEATS iii 

butter, is used as a garnish, a tablespoonful being 
put in at one side of the tin. About 3 lb. of 
macaroni will be enough for 60 tins. 

The heart, liver, and forelegs are roasted by them- 
selves, to be used later on, like the trimmings from 
the main joints, for hare " paste." 

Roast Venison. 

The preparation is the same as for roast hare, 
and a sauce with plenty of sour cream is used. It 
is advisable to add one-third of Italian red wine to 
the pickle. The latter, however, is not used in 
preparing the sauce, water being sufficient when no 
stock is available. 

Roast Wild Boar. 

The flesh is trimmed free from fat, cut into 
suitable pieces, and steeped for 68 days in a 
mixture of vinegar and red wine, plentifully spiced 
with onions, a few garUc bulbs, crushed juniper 
berries, a few laurel leaves, cloves, pepper, a little 
lemon peel, and chopped ginger. The sauce is 
prepared with sour cream, made pi(|uant with spices. 

Mutton and Cabbag^e. 

Boned leg and shoulder of mutton are roasted 
with salt, garlic, and a mixture of butter and fat 
(equal parts), the bones being placed in the pan in 
order to make a strong gravy. 



112 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Three oz. of the meat are placed in each tin, 
along with a piece of cabbage, and the tin filled up 
with gravy. 

Thirty small hearts of cabbage are taken to 
every 44 lb. of meat, and, after being washed, are 
quartered and lightly blanched in salt water. 

Ox Tong^ue. 

The cleaned tongues are well beaten with a 
wooden mallet and then rubbed thoroughly with 
a mixture of salt, pepper, and saltpetre, about 3| oz. 
of the latter being sufficient for 30 tongues. 

The tongues are next laid in suitable staunch 
wooden tubs and weighted down. If sufficient 
brine is not formed, water is poured in so as to 
cover the tongues, and the tubs are placed in a cool 
place. 

At the end of a month the tongues will be ready, 
and after being cleaned are boiled in fresh water 
for about 3 hours, to make them skin easily. 
They are then trimmed into the proper shape, and 
each is put into a separate tin. The best gravy 
is meat broth, freed from fat and mixed with 
a few sheets of gelatine, so that the broth will 

jelly. 

After the tins have been soldered down they are 
heated on the water-bath until the lids bulge, 
whereupon a small hole is punched in each lid, and 
after this hole has been soldered up again the 
tins are heated at 243 F. for an hour in the 
autoclave. 



PRESERVED MEATS 113 

Savoury Paste ** Appetlt-Pain." 

Twenty-two lb. of veal are roasted with a 
mixture of fat and butter (half and half), 4| lb. 
of fat pork are boiled at the same time, and 
2 J lb. of sliced onions are lightly browned in 
2 lb. of fresh butter, the whole being set aside 
to cool. 

Two and a half lb. of stale bread, previously 
softened with water, are now pressed well, mixed 
with the yolk of 40 eggs, and incorporated with 
the cold minced meat, the onions, 2 J lb. of well- 
cleaned sardines, the juice of two lemons, 3| oz. 
of capers, half a tin of truffles, and pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg, the whole being passed through a mincer. 
When the mass has passed through the finest disc 
of the mincer it is laid on a marble slab and 
worked up with the beaten-up whites of the 40 
eggs and a little pasty spice. Should the mass be 
too firm to spread easily, it is mixed with the 
surplus roasting gravy or the broth from the boiled 
pork. 

The mixture is filled into tins with a spoon, 
the tins being closed and sterilised like other 
preserved meats. 

Beef Paste. 

Twenty-eight lb. of beefsteak or other tender 
joint are roasted with 2^ lb. of butter and a 
suitable quantity of salt. Meanwhile 11 lb. 
of fat pork are thoroughly boiled, and 2| lb. of 
onions are browned with 1 lb. of butter. The 
8 



114 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

meat bones and trimmings are boiled to soup with 
leeks and celery. 

The cooled meat is cut up, mixed with the onions, 
spice, and a half tin of truffles, and put through the 
mincer, after which the whole is turned on to a 
marble slab and worked to the proper consistency 
with a bottle of sherry or madeira and the rest of 
the meat gravy and soup, plenty of spice being 
used. Finally it is put into tins and sterilised as 
usual. 

Hare Paste. 

Twenty-two pound of roast hare and 13^ lb. of 
boiled fat pork are boned and cut up, being then 
mixed with IJ lb. of browned onions, 1 J lb of salt, 
a little pasty spice, and truffle trimmings, and put 
through the mincer. The whole is then mixed 
with 4 J lb. best lard, the juice of two lemons, 
and the gravy or soup from the meat, and filled 
into tins. 

Venison Paste. 

This is prepared in the same way as hare paste, 
except that venison is used. 

Qame Paste. 

This group of preparations comprises only such 
game as pheasants, snipe, pigeon, etc. In all cases 
the roasted meat is separated from the bones, and 
reduced to the proper consistency with best butter. 
Lard is used only in the]]roasting. 



PRESERVED MEATS 



Foie Qras Paste. 



Thirty-three pounds of goose liver, thoroughly- 
washed in water, are boiled with a little water until 
the inside is no longer rare. Meanwhile 44 lb. of 
fat belly of pork are boiled well, and the two when 
cold are mixed with thirty softened stale rolls, and 
put through the mincing machine to chop the mass 
up fine. 

The resulting mass is next kneaded on a stone 
slab with | lb. of salt, pasty spice, and 2 J lb. of 
chopped tinned truffles, the later being in cubes 
large enough to be visible in the mass. Finally 
the beaten-up white of 120 eggs is added, and the 
mixture put into tins. The simplest form to use 
the white of egg is dried egg albumin, 13 oz. of 
which, dissolved in 5 pints of cold water, will 
correspond to the above number of eggs. 



THE END 



INDEX 



Agaric, orange, tinned, 94. 
Almonds, green, preserving, 5, 

6. 
Angelica, 22. 
" Appetit-pain," 113. 
Apple jelly, 65. 
Apple marmalade, 47. 
Apple pulp in jam, 45, 46, 47, 

48, 53. 
Apples, 20. 

Apricots, canned, 27, 28. 
Apricots, halved and skinned, 

11. 
Apricots, halved, unskinned, 

11. 
Apricot jam, 48. 
Apricot jelly, 66. 
Apricot marmalade, 46, 47. 
Apricots, whole, 11. 
Artichokes, tinning, 89. 
Asparagus, tinned, 78. 
Autoclave, 76, 77. 

Beans, tinning, 85-88. 

Beef d la Tnode^ 110. 

Beef paste, 113. 

Beef, roast, and onions or 

sardines, 108. 
Bilberries, canned, 30. 
Bilberries, preserved, 18. 
Bilberry jam, 50. 
Blackberries, preserving, 18. 
Blackberry jam, 50. 
Blackberry jelly, 56. 
Blanching fruit, 31. 



Blanching vegetables, 74. 
Boletus, edible, 94. 

Candied fruits, 31-41. 
Candied peel, 62-66. 
Candying fi-uit, 35. 
Canned fruit, 25-30. 
Carrots, tinning, 88. 
Celery chunks, tinned, 93. 
Chanterelles, tinned, 94. 
Cherries, canned, 26. 
Cherries, Cornelian, 14. 
Cherries in vinegar, 24. 
CheiTies, Mahaleb, 9. 
Cherries, Mahaleb, canned, 27. 
Cherries, stoned, preserving, 9. 
Cherries, unstoned, preserving, 

8. 
Cherry jam, 49. 
Cherry juice, 58. 
Cherry marmalade, 46. 
Cherry, morella, jam, 50. 
Chestnuts, glazed, 37. 
Chestnuts, preserving, 21. 
Chlorophyll, colouring peas 

with, 84. 
Citron peel, 62-65. 
Colouring matter for preserves, 

7. 
Colouring preserved vegetables, 

73. 
Coolers for preserved vegetables, 

72, 73. 
Cranberries, preserving, 18. 
Cranberry jelly, 56. 



117 



ii8 



INDEX 



Currant jelly, 56. 
Currant marmalade, 45. 
Currant pulp in jams, 45, 46, 

49. 
Currant, red, jam, 49. 
Currant, red, and raspberry jam, 

52. 
Currants, canned, 26. 
Currants, preserving, 8. 

Fi^, preserving, 19. 

Foie ^ras paste, 115. 

Frencn beans, tinning, 86. 

Fruit, blanching, 31. 

Fruit, canned, 25-30. 

Fruit, glazing, 33. 

Fruit jellies, 54-57. 

Fruit juices, 57-59. 

Fruit, mixed, 22. 

Fruit pulp for ices, 61. 

Fmit pulp, storing, 42. 

Fruit, sulphuring, 32. 

Fruit syrups, 59, 60. 

Fruits, glazed and candied, 31- 

41. 
Fruits, preserved, 3-24. 

Game paste, 114. 
Glazed fruits, 31-41. 
Glazing fruit, 33. 
Gherkins in mustard, 96. 
Gherkins, pickled, 96. 
Gherkins salted, 96. 
Gooseberries, canned, 25. 
Gooseberries, preserving, 6. 
Goose])erry and strawberry jam, 

52. 
Goose]>erry jam, 48. 
Goulasch, Sz^kely, 108. 
Goulasch, veal, 107. 
Greengage marmalade, 46. 
Greengages, canned, 29. 
Greengages, preserving, 12. 

Hare, roast and macaroni, 
110. 

Hare paste, 114. 

Heat, source of, for preserv- 
ing, 3. 



Jams, 48-53. 
Jellies, fruit, 54-57. 
Juices, fruit, 57-59. 
Julienne, tinned, 92. 

Leipzig all-sorts, 93. 
Lemon synip, 59. 

Macedoine, tinning, 92. 

Marmalades, 42-48. 

Meats, preserved, 103-115. 

Melons, 20. 

Mixed pickles, 98. 

Mixed vegetables, tinning, 92. 

Morels, tinned, 94. 

Mushrooms, pickled, 95. 

Mushrooms, tinned, 93. 

Mustarda, 40. 

Mutton and cabbage. 111. 

Neutralin, 66. 

Nuts, black (unskinned), pre- 
serving, 9. 
Nuts, white, 10. 

Orange marmalade, 47. 
Orange peel, 65, 66. 
Orange syrup, 59. 
Oranges, Genoa, 21. 
Ox tongue, 112. 

Ox tongue with peas or sauer- 
kraut, 109. 

Pans for boiling vetegables, 

74, 75. 
Pans, for steaming fruit, 44, 45. 
Pans for ja-eserving, 3. 
Pastes, meat, 113-115. 
Peach jelly, 56. 
Peach marmalade, 46. 
Peaches, canned, 29. 
Peaches (halved), 15. 
Peaches (whole), 15. 
Pears, canned, 27. 
Pears, halved, 14. 
Pears, whole, 13. 
Peas, tinning, 80. 
Piccalilli, 98. 
Pickled gherkins, 93. 



INDEX 



119 



Pickled mushrooms, 95. 
Pickles, mixed, 98. 
Pineapple jam, 52. 
Pineapple juice, 60. 
Pineapple, preserving, 23. 
Pineapple slices, glazing, 39. 
Plum jam, 52. 
Plum marmalade, 46. 
Plums, blue, glazing, 36. 
Plums in yinegar, 23. 
Plums, late, canned, 29. 
Plums, Mirabelle, canned, 28. 
Plums, Mirabelle, preserving, 

12. 
Plums, skinned, 17. 
Plums, steeped, 47. 
Pork ribs and sauerkraut, 109. 
Preserved fruits, 3-67. 
Preserved meats, 103-115. 
Preserved vegetables, 71-99. 
Pulping machinery, 43, 44. 
Pulping machinery, 50, 51. 

Quince jelly, 55. 
Quinces, 16. 

Raspberry and red currant jam, 

52. 
Raspberry jam, 49. 
Raspberry jelly, 56. 
Raspberry juice, 57. 
Raspberry marmalade, 45. 
Raspberries, preserving, 18. 
Rhubarb, preserved, 30. 
Roseberries, preserving, 16. 
Roseberry marmalade, 46. 

Savoury paste, 113. 

Shelling machine for peas, 79- 

81. 
Sirloin, Hungarian, 108. 
Slicing machine for beans, 87. 
Slicing machine for carrots, 88. 
Spinach, tinning, 89. 
Steak and potatoes, 108. 
Sterilising fruit, 4. 



Sterilising tinned vegetables, 
76. 

Stoppers, patent, 3. 

Storing tinned vegetables, 76. 

Strawberry and gooseberry jam, 
52. 

Strawberry jam, 49. 

Strawberry jelly, 56. 

Strawberry juice, 58. 

Strawberry marmalade, 45. 

Strawberries, canned, 25. 

Strawberries, crystallised, 40. 

Strawberries, garden, preserv- 
ing, 7. 

Strawberries, wild, 8. 

Sulphuring fruit, 32. 

Syrups, fruit, 59. 

Tin-closing machine, 83. 
Tinned vegetables, 71-99. 
Tomato marmalade, 48. 
Tomato pur^e, 91. 
Tomatoes, tinning, 90. 
Truck for conveying cages, 84. 
Truck for conveying tins, 82. 
Truffles, tinned, 95. 

Veal cutlets, 104. 

Veal fricandeau, 106. 

Veal goulasch, 105. 

Veal roast, 105. 

Vegetables, preserved, 71-99. 

Venison paste, 114. 

Venison, roast. 111. 

Vienna sausage and sauerkraut, 

109. 
Vinegar, curry, 99. 
Vinegar, pickling, 98. 
Vinegar, preserving cherries in, 

24. 
Vinegar, preserving plums in, 

23. 

Water for preserving vegetables, 

71. 
Wild boar, roast. 111. 



Printed by Morrison & Gibb Limited, Edinburgh 



The Manufacture of 

PRESERVED FOODS AND 
SWEETMEATS. 



A HANDBOOK OP ALL 

The Processes for the Preservation of Flesh, Fruit, and 

Vegetables, and for the Preparation of Dried Fruit, 

Dried Vegetables, Marmalades, Fruit-Syrups, and 

Fermented Beverages, and of all kinds of 

Candies, Candied Fruit, Sweetmeats, 

Roclcs, Drops, Drag^es, Pralines, 

etc. 

By A. HAUSNER. 

Trmttslated from the Qermaa of the Third Enlarged Bdition. 
Crown 8vo. 28 Illustrations. 223 Pages. 



CONTENTS. 



The Causes of the Putrefaction of Pood  
The Ohemical Composition of Foods  The 
Products of Decomposition The Causes 
of Fermentation and Putrefaction  Pre- 
servative Bodies The Various Methods 
of Preserving Food The Preservation of 
Animal Food Preserving Meat hy Means 
of Ice  ^The Preservation of Meat by Char- 
coal Preservation of Meat by Drying  
The Preservation of Meat by the Exclusion 
of Air The Appert Method Preserving 
Flesh by SmokmgOuick-Smoking Pre- 
serving Meat with Salt (^uick-Salung by 
Air-Pressure Quick-Salting by Liquid- 
Pressure Gamgee's Method of Preserving 
Meat The Preservation of Eggs Pre- 
servation of White and Yolk of E^  
Milk Preservation Condensed Muk  
The Preservation of Fat Manufacture of 
Soup-Tablets  ^Meat Biscuits  Extract of 
Beef The Preservation of Vegetable 
Foods in General  Compressing Green 
Vegetables  Preservation of Vegetables 
by Appert's Method The Preservation of 
Fruit Preservation of Fruit by Ston^^e  



The Preservation of Fruit by Drying- 
Drying Fruit by Artificial Heat Roasting 
Fruit The Preservation of Fruit with 
Sugar Boiled Preserved Fruit The 
Preservation of Fruit in Spirit, Acetic 
Acid, or Glycerine Preservation of Fruit 
without Boiling Jam Manufacture The 
Manufacture of Fruit Jellies The Mak- 
ing of Gelatine Jellies The Manufacture 
of Sxdzen  The Preservation of Fer- 
mented Beverages 

THE MANUFACTURE OF CANDIED 
FRUIT : The Manufacture of Boiled Sugar 
and Caramel The Candying of Fruit- 
Caramelised Fruit The Manufacture of 
Sugar Sticks, or Barley-Sugar Bonbon- 
Making Fruit Drops The Manufacture 
of Drag^es The Machinery and Appli- 
ances used in Candy Manufacture  
Dyeing Candies and Bonbons Essential 
Oils used in Candy - Making  Fruit- 
Essences- The Manufacture of filled Bon- 
bons, Liqueur Bonbons, and Stamped 
Lozenges Receipts for Jams and Jellies 
Receipts for Bonbon-Making Drag^es. 



Price 78. 6d. net (Poet free, 7e. 9d. Home; Te. lOd. Abroad). 

Can be obtained through alt BookaeUers, or of 

SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON, 

8 BROADWAY, LUDOATE HILL, LONDON, E.C. 



Hevibocb (Tatalooue 

OF 

Speeial Weednieal iBooks. 



PAGE 

Adhesives 10 

Agricultural Chemistry ... 9 
Air, Industrial Use of ... 10 
Alcohol, Industrial ... 9 

Alum and its Sulphates ... 8 

Ammonia 8 

Aniline Colours 3 

Animal Fats 

Anti-corrosive Paints ... 4 
Architecture, Terms in ... 22 
Architectural Pottery ... 12 
Artificial Perfumes ... 7 

Balsams 9 

Bleaching Agents, etc. ... 17 

Bone Products 8 

Bookbinding 24 

Brick-making ... 11, 12 

Burnishing Brass 21 

Carpet Yarn Printing ... 16 

Casein 4 

Celluloid 23 

Cement 22 

Ceramic Books ... 11, 12 

Charcoal 8 

Chemical Analysis 8 

Chemical Essays 8 

Chemical Reagents ... 8 

Chemical Works 8 

Church Lace 14 

Clays 12 

Coal Dust Firing 18 

Coal Gas By-Products ... 9 
Colliery Recovery Work... 18 
Colour Matching (Textile) 16 

Colour Recipes 3 

Colour Theory 16 

Combing Machines ... 17 

Compounding Oils, etc. ... 6 
Condensing Apparatus ... 18 

Cosmetics 7 

Cotton Dyeing 16 

Cotton Spinning ... ... 17 

Cotton Waste 17 

Damask Weaving 15 

Dampness in Buildings ... 22 
Decorators' Books ... 4 

Decorative Textiles ... 15 

Dental Metallurgy 18 

Disinfection 9 

Driers 5 

Drugs 23 

DrymgOils 5 

Drying with Air, etc. ... 10 
Dyeing Marble, etc. ... 23 

Dyeing Fabrics 16 

Dyers' Materials 16 

Dye-stuffs 16 

Edible Fats and Oils ... 6 
Electric Lamp Develop- 
ment 21 

Electric Wiring 21 

Electricity in Osllieries ... 18 

Emery 24 

Enamelling Metal 13 



INDEX TO SUBJECTS. 

VAGB 

Enamels 13 

Engineering Handbooks 19, 20 



Engraving 24 

Essential Oils 7 

Evaporating Apparatus .. 18 
External Plumbing ... 21 

Fats 6 

6 I Faults in Woollen Goods 15 

Flax Spinning 17 

Food and Drugs 23 

Fruit Preserving 23 

Gas Firing 18 

Glass-making Recipes ... 13 

Glass Painting 13 

Glue-making and Testing... 8 

Glycerine 7 

Greases 6 

Gutta Percha 1 1 

Hat Manufacturing ... 14 

Hemp Spinning 17 

Historyof Staffs Potteries 12 

Hops 22 

Hot-water Supply ... 21 

India-rubber 11 

India-rubber Substitutes 5 
Inks 3, 4, 5. 10 



Insecticides, etc. 
Iron-corrosion 
Iron, Science of 
Japanning ... 
Jute Spinning 
Lace-Making 
Lacquering ... 
Lake Pigments 
Lead 



... 22 
4 
18 
21 
17 
14 
21 
3 
10 



Leather- working Mater'ls 6,1 1 



Linoleum 
Lithographic Inks ... 
Lithography 

Lubricants 

Manures 

Meat Preserving ... 
Medicated Soaps ... 
Metal Polishing Soaps 
Mineral Pigments ... 
Mineral Waxes 
Mine Ventilation ... 
Mining, Electricity 

Needlework 

Oil and Colour Recipes 

Oil Boiling 

Oil Merchants' Manual 
Oils 



5 

5,23 
... 23 
... 6 
8,9 
... 23 
... 7 
... 7 
... 3 
... 6 
... 18 
... 18 
... 14 
... 3 
... 5 
... 6 
5,6,7 



Ozone, Industrial Use of... 10 
Paint Manufacture ... 3 

Paint Materials 3 

Paint-material Testing ... 5 
Paint Mixing ... 3, 4 

Paper-Mill Chemistry ... 13 

Pigments 3.9 

Plumbers' Books 21 

Pottery Clays 12 

Pottery Decorating ... U 

Pottery Manufacture II. 12 



PAGB 

Pottery Marks 12 

Power-loom Weaving ... 14 

Preserved Foods 23 

Printers' Ready Reckoner 24 
Printing Inks ... 3, 4, 5 

Recipes 3, 13 

Resins 9 

Ring Spinning Frame ... 17 
Risks of Occupations ... 10 
Riveting China, etc. ... 12 

Scheele's Essays 8 

Sealing Waxes 10 

Shale Oils and Tars ... 9 
Sheet Metal Working ... 21 

Shoe Polishes 6 

Silk Dyeing 16 

Silk Throwing, etc. ... 17 

Smoke Prevention 18 

Soap Powders 7 

Soaps 7 

Spinning 15, 17 

Spirit Varnishes 5 

Staining Marble, and Bone 23 
Stain-removing Soaps ... 7 

Standard Cloths 13 

Steam Drying 10 

Steel Hardening 18 

Sugar Technology ... 24 

Sweetmeats 23 

Tallow 6 

Technical Schools, List ... 24 

Terra cotta 12 

Testing Paint Materials ...4, 5 
Textile Colour Mixing ... 16 

Textile Design 14 

Textile Fabrics ... 13, 14, 15 

Textile Fibres 14 

Textile Materials 14 

Timber 22 

Varnishes 5 

Vegetable Fats and Oils ... 6 
Vegetable Preserving ... 23 

Warp Sizing 15 

Waste Utilisation 9 

Water, Industrial Use 10, 11 
Water-proofing Fabrics ... 15 

Waxes 6 

Weaving Calculations ... 15 
White Lead and Zinc White 5 
Wiring Calculations ... 21 
Wood Distillation ... 22 

Wood Extracts 22 

Wood Waste Utilisation... 22 

Wood-Dyeing 23 

Wool Dyeing 16 

Woollen Goods ... 15, 16 
Worsted Spinning ... 15 

Woven Fabrics 15 

Writing Inks 10 

X-Ray Work 11 

Yarn Sizing 15 

Yarn Numbering and Test- 
ing 14,15 

Zinc White Paints ... 5 



PUBLISHED BY 

SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON 

(E. GREENWOOD, Proprietor', 

8 BROADWAY, LUDGATE, LONDON, E.G. (England), 



FULL PARTICULARS OF CONTENTS 

Of the Books mentioned in this ABRIDCED CATALOCUE 
will be found in the following: Catalogfues of 

CURRENT TECHNICAL BOOKS. 



LIST I. 

Artists' Colours Bone Products  Butter and Margarine Manufacture^Casein 
Cements Chemical Works (Designing and Erection) Chemistry (Agricultural, Indus- 
trial, Practical and Theoretical)  Colour Mixing Colour Manufacture  Compounding 
Oils  Decorating  Driers Drying Oils  Drysaltery  Emery  Essential Oils  Fats 
(Animal, Vegetable, Edible)  Gelatines  Glues  Greases  Gums  Inks  Lead  
Leather  Lubricants  Oils  Oil Crushing  Paints  Paint Mauufacturing  Paint 
Material Testing Perfumes Petroleum Pharmacy Recipes (Paint, Oil and Colour) 
 Resins Sealing Waxes Shoe Polishes  Soap Manufacture  Solvents  Spirit 
Varnishes  Varnishes  White Lead  Workshop Wrinkles. 

LIST II. 

Bleaching  Bookbinding  Carpet Yam Printing  Colour (Matching, Mixing 
Theory) Cotton Combing Machines Dyeing (Cotton, Woollen and Silk Gobds)  
Dyers' Materials  Dye-stuffs Engraving  Flax, Hemp and Jute Spinning and Twisting 
 Gutta-Percha  Hat Manufacturing  India-rubber  Inks  Lace-making  Litho- 
graphy  Needlework  Paper Making  Paper-Mill Chemist  Paper-pulp Dyeing  
Point Lace Power-loom Weaving Printing Inks  Silk Throwing  Smoke Preven- 
tionSoapsSpinningTextile (Spinning, Designing, Dyeing. Weaving, Finishing) 
Textile Materials Textile Fabrics Textile Fibres Textile Oils Textile Soaps- 
Timber  Water (Industrial Uses)  Water-proofing  Weaving Writing Inks  Yarns 
(Testing, Sizing). 

LIST in. 

Architectural Terms  Brassware (Bronzingt Burnishing, Dipping, Lacquering)  
Brickmaking  Building Cement Work  Ceramic Industries China  Coal-dust Firing 
 Colliery Books Concrete  Condensing Apparatus  Dental Metallurgy Drainage  
Drugs Dyeing  Earthenware  Electrical Books  Enamelling' Enamels  Engineer- 
ing Handbooks  Evaporating Apparatus  Flint Glass-making Foods  Food Preserv- 
ingFruit Preserving Gas Engines  Gas Firing  Gearing  Glsissware (Painting, 
Riveting) Hops  Iron (Construction, Science)  Japanning  Lead  Meat Preserving 
 Mines (Haulage, Electrical Equipment, Ventilation, Recovery Work from) Plants 
(Diseases, Fungicides, Insecticides) Plumbing Books  Pottery (Architectural. Clays 
Decorating, Manufacture, Marks on)  Reinforced Concrete  Riveting (China, 
Earthenware, Glassware)  Sanitary Engmeering  Steam Turbines  Steel (Hardening, 
Tempering) Sugars-Sweetmeats Toothfed Ga^^ring Vegetable Preserving  Wood 
Dyeing X-Ray Work. 



COPIES OF ANY OF THESE LISTS WILL BE SENT 
POST FREE ON APPLICATION. 



(Paints, Colours, Pigments and 
Printing Inks.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OF PIGMENTS. By Ernest J. 
Parry, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C.; F.C.S., and J. H. Coste, F.I.C, 
F.C.S. Demy 8vo. Five Illustrations. 285 pp. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lis. home ; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF PAINT. A Practical 
Handbook for Paint Manufacturers, Merchants and Painters. 
By J. Cruickshank Smith, B.Sc. Second Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. Demy Svo. 288 pp. 80 Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lis. home ; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

DICTIONARY OF CHEMICALS AND RAW 
PRODUCTS USED IN THE MANUFACTURE 
OF PAINTS. COLOURS, VARNISHES AND 
ALLIED PREPARATIONS. By George H. Hurst, 
F.C.S. Demy Svo. 370 pp. Second Revised Edition. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home ; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF LAKE PIGMENTS 
FROM ARTIFICIAL COLOURS. By Francis H. 
Jennison, F.I.C, F.C.S. Sixteen Coloured Platee, showinflr 
Speoimens of Eifirhty-nine Coloure, specially prepared from 
the Recipes fflven in the Book. 136 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF MINERAL AND LAKE 
PIGMENTS. Containing Directions for the Manu- 
facture of all Artificial, Artists and Painters' Colours, Enamel, 
Soot and Mecallic Pigments, A text-book for Manufacturers, 
iMerchants, Artists and Painters. By Dr. Josef Bersch. 
Translated by A. C. Wright, M.A. (Oxon.), B.Sc. (Lond.). Forty- 
three Illustrations. 476 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

RECIPES FOR THE COLOUR, PAINT, VARNISH, 
OIL, SOAP AND DRYSALTERY TRADES. 

Compiled by An Analytical Chemist. 330 pp. Second Revised 
and Enlarged Edition. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, lis. home ; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

OIL COLOURS AND PRINTERS' INKS. By Louis 
Edoar And6s. Translated from the German. 215 pp. Crown 
8vo. 56 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home 
and abroad.) 



MODERN PRINTING INKS. A Practical Handbook 
for Printing Ink Manufacturers and Printers. By Alfred Sey- 
mour. Demy 8vo. Six Illustrations. 90 pages. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

THREE HUNDRED SHADES AND HOW TO MIX 
THEM. For Architects, Painters and Decorators. By 
A. Desaint, Artistic Interior Decorator of Paris. The book con- 
tains 100 folio Plates, measuring 12 in, by 7 in., each Plate con- 
taining specimens of three artistic shades. These shades arc all 
numbered, and their composition and particulars for mixing are 
fully given at the beginning of the book. Each Plate is inter- 
leaved with grease-proof paper, and the volume is very artistic- 
ally bound in art and linen with the Shield of the Painters* Guild 
impressed on the cover in gold and silver. Price 21s. net. (Post 
free, 21s. 7d. home ; 22s. 2d. abroad.) 

HOUSE DECORATING AND PAINTING. By W. 

Norman Brown. Eighty-eight Illustrations. 150 pp. Crown 
8vo. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 



A HISTORY OF DECORATIVE ART. By W. Norman 
Brown. Thirty-nine Illustrations. 96 pp. Crown 8vo. Price 
Is. net. (Post free, Is. 4d. home and abroad.) 

WORKSHOP WRINKLES for Decorators, Painters, 
Paperhangers, and Others. By W. N. Brown. Crown 8vo. 
128 pp. Second Edition. Price 2s. 6d. net. (Post free, 2s. lOd. 
home and abroad.) 

CASEIN. By Robert Scherer. Translated from the 
German by Chas. -Salter. Demy Svo. Illustrated. Second 
Revised English Edition. 160 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home and abroad.) 

SIMPLE METHODS FOR TESTING PAINTERS' 
MATERIALS. By A. C. Wright, M.A. (Oxon.), 
B.Sc. (Lond.). Crown 8vo. 160 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 
5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

IRON-CORROSION, ANTI-FOULING AND ANTI- 
CORROSIVE PAINTS. Translated from the German 
of Louis Edgar Andes. Sixty-two Illustrations. 275 pp. 
Demy Svo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home and 
abroad.) 

For contents of these books^ see List I, 



THE TESTING AND VALUATION OF RAW 
MATERIALS USED IN PAINT AND COLOUR 
MANUFACTURE. By M. W. Jones, F.C.S. A 
Book for the Laboratories of Colour Works. 88 pp. Crown 8vo. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE AND COMPARATIVE 
MERITS OF WHITE LEAD AND ZINC WHITE 
PAINTS. By G. Petit, Civil Engineer, etc. Trans- 
lated from the French. Crown 8vo. 100 pp. Price 4s. net. 
(Post free, 4s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

PREPARATION AND USES OF WHITE ZINC 
PAINTS. Translated from the French of P. Fleury. 
Crown 8vo. 280 pages. Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 5d. home ; 
6s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Varnishes and Drying Oils.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF VARNISHES AND 
KINDRED INDUSTRIES. By J. Geddes McIntosh. 

Second, greatly enlarged, English Edition, in three Volumes, 
based on and including the work of Ach. Livache. 

Volume I. OIL CRUSHING, REFINING AND 
BOILING, THE MANUFACTURE OF LINO- 
LEUM, PRINTING AND LITHOGRAPHIC 
INKS, AND INDIA-RUBBER SUBSTITUTES. 

Demy 8vo. [Revised Edition in preparation. 

Volume II. VARNISH MATERIALS AND OIL- 
VARNISH MAKING. Demy 8vo. 70 Illustrations. 
220 pp. Price 10s. 6 J. net. (Post free, lis. home and abroad.) 

Volume HI. SPIRIT VARNISHES AND SPIRIT 
VARNISH MATERIALS. Demy 8vo. Illustrated. 
464pp. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 2d. 
abroad.) 

DRYING OILS, BOILED OIL AND SOLID AND 
LIQUID DRIERS. By L. E. And^s. Expressly 
Written for this Series of Special Technical Books, and the 
Publishers hold the Copyright tor English and Foreign Editions. 
Second Revised Edition. Forty-three Illustrations. 352 pp. 
Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 2d. 
abroad.) 

{Analysis of Resins f see page 9.) 



(Oils, Fats, Waxes, Greasies, Petroleum.) 

LUBRICATING OILS, FATS AND GREASES: 

Their Origin, Preparation, Properties, Uses and Analyses. A 
Handbook for Oil Manufacturers, Refiners and Merchants, and 
the Oil and Fat Industry in General. By George H. Hurst, 
F.C.S. Third Revised and Enlarged Edition. Seventy-four 
Illustrations. 384 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, lis. home ; Us. 2d. abroad.) 

MINERAL WAXES: Their Preparation and Uses. By 
Rudolf Gregorius. Translated from the German. Crown Svo. 
250 pp. 32 Illustrations. Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 5d. 
home ; 6s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE PRACTICAL COMPOUNDING OF OILS, 
TALLOW AND GREASE FOR LUBRICA- 
TION, ETC. By An Expert Oil Refiner. Second 
Edition. Demy Svo. 100 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF LUBRICANTS, SHOE 
POLISHES AND LEATHER DRESSINGS. By 

Richard Brunner. Translated from the Sixth German Edition. 
Second English Edition. Crown Svo. ISS pp. 10 Illustrations. 
Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, Ss. home and abroad.) 

THE OIL MERCHANTS' MANUAL AND OIL 
TRADE READY RECKONER. Compiled by 
Frank F. Sherriff. Second Edition Revised and Enlarged. 
Demy Svo. 214 pp. With Two Sheets of Tables. Price 7s. 6d. 
net. *(Post free, Ss. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

ANIMAL FATS AND OILS: Their Practical Pro- 
duction, Purification and Uses for a great Variety of Purposes. 
Their Properties, Falsification and Examination. Translated 
from the German of Louis Edgar Andes. Sixty-two Illustrations. 
240 pp. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Demy Svo. 
Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home and abroad.) 

VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS: Their Practical 

Preparation, Purification and Employment for Various Purposes, 
their Properties, Adulteration and Examination. Translated 
from the German of Louis Edgar Andes. Ninety-four Illus- 
trations. 340 pp. Second Edition. Demy Svo. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

EDIBLE FATS AND OILS : Their Composition, Manu- 
facture and Analysis. By W. H. Simmons, B.Sc. (Lond.), and 
C. A. Mitchell, B.A. (Oxon.). Demy Svo. 150 pp. Price 
7s. fid. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

For contents of these books^ see List I. 



7 

(Glycerine.) 

GLYCERINE: Its Production, Uses, and Examination. 
By S. W. KOPPE. Translated from the Second German Edition. 
260 pp. 7 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 8s. home and abroad.) 



(Essential Oils and Perfumes.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OF ESSENTIAL OILS AND 
ARTIFICIAL PERFUMES. By Ernest J. Parry, 
B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C., F.C.S. Second Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. 552 pp. 20 Illustrations. Demy Svo. Price 12s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. Id. home ; 13s. 8d. abroad.) 



(Soap Manufacture.) 



SOAPS. A Practical Manual of the Manufacture of 
Domestic, Toilet and other Soaps. By George H. Hurst, F.C.S. 
2nd edition. 390 pp. 66 Illustrations. Demy 8vo. Price Tis. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 2d. abroad.) 

TEXTILE SOAPS AND OILS. Handbook on the 
Preparation, Properties and Analysis of the Soaps and Oils used 
in Textile Manufacturing, Dyeing and Printing. By George 
H. Hurst, F.C.S. Second Edition, Revised and partly re- 
written by W. H. Simmons, B.Sc. (Lond.). Demy 8vo. 200 pp. 
11 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and 
abroad.) 

THE HANDBOOK OF SOAP MANUFACTURE. 

By Wm. H. Simmons, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.C.S., and H. A. Appleton. 
Demy Svo. 160 pp. 27 Illustrations. Price 8s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 9s. home and abroad.) 



(Cosmetical Preparations.) 

COSMETICS: MANUFACTURE, EMPLOYMENT 
AND TESTING OF ALL COSMETIC 
MATERIALS AND COSMETIC SPECIALITIES. 

Translated from the German of Dr. Theodor Koller. Crown 
Svo. 262 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home; 5s. 6d. 
abroad.) 



(Qlue, Bone Products and Manures.) 

GLUE AND GLUE TESTING. By Samuel Rideal, 
D.Sc. (Lond.). Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Demy 
8vo. 196 pp. 14 Illustrations. .Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
lis. home and abroad.) 

BONE PRODUCTS AND MANURES : An Account 
of the most recent Improvements in the Manufacture of Fat, 
Glue, Animal Charcoal, Size, Gelatine and Manures. By Thomas 
Lambert, Technical and Consulting Chemist. Second Revised 
Edition. Demy 8vo. 172 pages. 17 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

(See also Chemical Manures, p, 9.) 

(Chemicals, Waste Products, etc.) 

REISSUE OF CHEMICAL ESSAYS OF C. W. 
SCHEELE. First Published in English in 1786. 
Translated from the Academy of Sciences at Stockholm, with 
Additions. 300 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 6d. 
home and abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF ALUM AND THE SUL- 
PHATES AND OTHER SALTS OF ALUMINA 
AND IRON. Their Uses and Applications as Mordants 
in Dyeing and Calico Printing, and their other Applications in 
the Arts, Manufactures, Sanitary Engineering, Agriculture and 
Horticulture. Translated from the French of Lucien Gesch- 
wiND. 195 Illustrations. 400 pp. Royal 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 2d. abroad.) 

AMMONIA AND ITS COMPOUNDS: Their Manu- 
facture and Uses. By Camille Vincent, Professor at the 
Central School of Arts and Manufactures, Paris. Translated 
from the French by M. J. Salter. Royal 8vo. 114 pp. Thirty- 
two Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home; 
5s. 8d. abroad.) 

CHEMICAL WORKS: Their Design, Erection, and 
Equipment. By S. S. Dyson and S. S. Clarkson. Royal 8vo. 
220 pp. With 9 Folding Plates and 80 Illustrations. Price 21s. 
net. (Post free, 21s. 6d. home; 21s. lOd. abroad.) 

MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, as applied to 
the Assay of Fuels, Ores, Metals, Alloys, Salts and other Mineral 
Products. By E. Prost, D.Sc. Translated by J. Cruickshank 
Smith, B.Sc. Royal Svo. 300 pages. 44 Illustrations. Price 
12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 133. home ; 13s. 4d. abroad.) 

TESTING OF CHEMICAL REAGENTS FOR 
PURITY. Translated from the German of Dr. C. 
Krauch. Royal Svo. 350 pages. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
13s. home ; 13s. 4d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List /. 



SHALE OILS AND TARS and their Products. By 
Dr. W. ScHEiTHAUER. Translated from the German. Demy 8vo. 
190 pages. 70 Illustrations and 4 Diagrams. Price 8s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 9s. home and abroad.) 

THE BY-PRODUCTS OF COAL-GAS MANUFAC- 
TURE. By K. R. Lange. Translated from the German. 
Crown Svo. 164 pages. 13 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

INDUSTRIAL ALCOHOL. A Practical Manual on the 
Production and Use of Alcohol for Industrial Purposes and for 
Use as a Heating Agent, as an Illuminant and as a Source of 
Motive Power. By J.G. McIntosh. Demy Svo. 1907. 250 pp. 
With 75 Illustrations and 25 Tables. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

THE UTILISATION OF WASTE PRODUCTS. A 

Treatise on the Rational Utilisation, Recovery and Treatment of 
Waste Products of all kinds. By Dr. Theodor Koller. Trans- 
lated from the Second Revised German Edition. Second English 
Revised Edition. Demy Svo. 336 pp. 22 Illustrations. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; Ss. 2d. abroad.) 

ANALYSIS OF RESINS AND BALSAMS. Trans- 
lated from the German of Dr. Karl Dieterich. Demy Svo. 340 
pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

DISTILLATION OF RESINS, RESINATE LAKES 
AND PIGMENTS, CARBON PIGMENTS AND 
PIGMENTS FOR TYPEWRITING MACHINES, 
MANIFOLDERS, ETC. By Victor Schweizer. 
Demy Svo. [New Revised Edition in preparation. 

DISINFECTION AND DISINFECTANTS. By M. 

Christian. Translated from the German. Crown Svo. 112 
pages. 18 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home 
and abroad.) 

(Agricultural Chemistry and Manures.) 

MANUAL OF AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. By 

Herbert Inole, F.I.C, Late Lecturer on Agricultural Chemistry, 
the Leeds University; Lecturer in the Victoria University. 
Third and Revised Edition. 400 pp. 16 Illustrations. Demy 
Svo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, Ss. home ; Ss. 2d. abroad.) 

CHEMICAL MANURES. Translated from the French 
of J. Fritsch. Demy Svo. Illustrated. 340 pp. Price lOs. 6d, 
xiet. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

{^ff (flfQ Bone Products ami Me^^^rcJ, p. 8.) 



10 

(Writing Inks and Sealing Waxes.) 

INK MANUFACTURE: Including Writing, Copying, 
Lithographic, Marking, Stamping and Laundry Inks. By 
SiOMUND Lbhner. Translated from the German of the Fifth 
Edition. Second Revised and Enlarged English Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 180 pages. Three Illustrations. Price5s.net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

SEALING-WAXES, WAFERS AND OTHER 
ADHESIVES FOR THE HOUSEHOLD, OFFICE, 
WORKSHOP AND FACTORY. By H. C. Standage. 
Crown Svo. 96 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home and 
abroad.) 

(Lead Ores and Lead Compounds.) 

LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS. By Thos. Lambert, 
Technical and Consulting Chemist. Demy Svo. 226 pp. Forty 
Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

NOTES ON LEAD ORES : Their Distribution and Pro- 
perties. By Jas. Fairie, F.G.S. Crown Svo. 64 pages. Price 
Is. net. (Post free. Is. 4d. home and abroad.) 

(White Lead and Zinc White Paints^ see p. 5.) 

(Industrial Hygiene.) 

THE RISKS AND DANGERS TO HEALTH OF 
VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS AND THEIR PRE- 
VENTION. By Leonard A. Parry, M.D., B.Sc. 
(Lond.). 196 pp. Demy Svo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

(Industrial Uses of Air, Steam and 
Water.) 

DRYING BY MEANS OF AIR AND STEAM. Ex- 

planations, Formulae, and Tables for Use in Practice. Trans- 
lated from the German of E. Hausbrand. Second Revised 
English Edition. Two folding Diagrams, Thirteen Tables, and 
Two Illustrations. Crown Svo. 76 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 
(See also " Evaporating, Condensing and Cooling Apparatus j^^ p, IS.) 

PURE AIR, OZONE AND WATER. A Practical 
Treatise of their Utilisation and Value in Oil, Grease, Soap, Paint, 
Glue and other Industries. By W. B. Cowell. Twelve Illus- 
trations. Crown Svo. S5 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. 
home ; 58. 6d. abroad. ) 

For contents of these books^ see List III, 



11 

THE INDUSTRIAL USES OF WATER. COMPOSI- 
TION EFFECTS TROUBLES REMEDIES- 
RESIDUARY WATERS PURIFICATION AN- 
ALYSIS. By H. de la Coux. Royal 8vo. Trans* 
lated from the French and Revised by Arthur Morris. 364 pp. 
135 Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; 
lis. 6d. abroad.) 
{See Books on Smoke Prevention^ Engineering and Metallurgy ^ p, 18.) 

(X Rays.) 

PRACTICAL X RAY WORK. By Frank T. Addyman, 
BItfA B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C., Member of the Roentgen Society of London ; 
  Radiographer to St. George's Hospital ; Demonstrator of Physics 
V3H8 and Chemistry, and Teacher of Radiography in St. George's 
[ Hospital Medical School. Demy 8vo. Twelve Plates from 

Photographs of X Ray Work. Fifty- two Illustrations. 200 pp. 

Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; lis 2d. abroad.) 

(India -Rubber and Qutta Percha.) 

INDIA-RUBBER AND QUTTA PERCHA. Second 
English Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Based on the French 
work of T. Sebligmann, G. Lamy Torrilhon and H. Falconnbt 
by John Gbddbs McIntosh. Royal 8vo. 100 Illustrations. 400 
pages. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. Id. home ; 13s. 8d. 
abroad.) 

(Leather Trades.) 

THE LEATHER WORKER'S MANUAL. Being a 
Compendium of Practical Recipes and Working Formulae for 
Curriers, Bootmakers, Leather Dressers, Blacking Manufac- 
turers, Saddlers, Fancy Leather Workers. By H. C. Standagb. 
Demy 8vo. 165 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home 
and abroad.) 
(See also Manufacture of Shoe Polishes^ Leather Dressings^ etCy p, 6.) 

(Pottery, Bricks, Tiles, Glass, etc.) 

MODERN BRICKMAKING. By Alfred B. Sbarlb, 
Royal 8vo. 440 pages. 260 Illustrations. Price 12s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 13s. Id. home; 13s. 7d. abroad.) 

THE MANUAL OF PRACTICAL PdTTING. Com- 
piled by Experts, and Edited by Chas. F. Binns. Fourth Edition, 
Revised and Enlarged. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 17s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 18s. home ; 18s. 2d. abroad.) 

POTTERY DECORATING. A Description of all the Pro- 
cesses for Decorating Pottery and Porcelain. By R. Hainbach. 
Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 250 pp. Twenty- 
two Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home 
8s. 2d. abroad.) 



11 

A TREATISE ON CERAMIC INDUSTRIES, A 

Complete Manual for Pottery, Tile, and Brick Manufacturers. By 
Bmilb Bourry. a Revised Translation from the French, with 
some Critical Notes by Alfred B. Searle. Demy 8vo. 308 
Illustrations. 460 pp. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home; 
13s. 6d. abroad.) 

ARCHITECTURAL POTTERY. Bricks, Tiles, Pipes, 
Enamelled Terra-cottas, Ordinary and Incrusted Quarries, Stone- 
ware Mosaics, Faiences and Architectural Stoneware. By Leon 
Lep^vre. Translated from the French by K. H. Bird, M.A., 
and W. Moore Binns. With Five Plates. 950 Illustrations in 
the Text, and numerous estimates. 500 pp. Royal Svo. Price 
15s. net. (Post free, 15s. 7d. home; 16s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE ART OF RIVETING GLASS, CHINA AND 
EARTHENWARE. By J. Howorth. Second 
Edition. Paper Cover. Price Is. net. (By post, home or abroad. 
Is. 2d.) 

NOTES ON POTTERY CLAYS. The Distribution, 
Properties, Uses and Analyses of Ball Clays, China Clays and 
China Stone. By Jas. Fairie, F.G.S. 132 pp. Crown Svo. 
Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 4s. home and abroad.) 

HOW TO ANALYSE CLAY. By H. M. Ashby. Demy 
8vo. 72 pp. 20 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

A Reissue of 

THE HISTORY OF THE STAFFORDSHIRE POT- 
TERIES; AND THE RISE AND PROGRESS 
OF THE MANUFACTURE OF POTTERY AND 
PORCELAIN. With References to Genuine Specimens, 
and Notices of Eminent Potters. By Simeon Shaw. (Originally 
published in 1829.) 265 pp. Demy Svo. Price 5s, net. (Post 
free, 5s. 6d. home; 5s. lOd. abroad.) 

A Reissue of 

THE CHEMISTRY OF THE SEVERAL NATURAL 
AND ARTIFICIAL HETEROGENEOUS COM- 
POUNDS USED IN MANUFACTURING POR- 
CELAIN, GLASS AND POTTERY. By Simeon 
Shaw. (Originally published in 1837.) 750 pp. Royal Svo. 
Price 10s. net. (Post free, 10s. 7d. home; Us. 6d. abroad.) 

BRITISH POTTERY MARKS. By G. Woolliscroft 
Rheao. Demy Svo. 310 pp. With over Twelve-hundred Illus- 
trations of Marks. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, Ss. home; 
8s. 4d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List III, 



13 

(Glassware, Glass Staining and Painting.) 

RBCIPiSS FOR FLINT GLASS MAKING. By a 

British Glass Master and Mixer. Sixty Recipes. Being Leaves 
from the Mixing Book of several experts in the Flint Glass Trade, 
containing up-to-date recipes and valuable information as to 
Crystal, Demi-crystal and Coloured Glass in its many varieties. 
It contains the recipes for cheap metal suited to pressing, blow- 
ing, etc., as well as the most costly crystal and ruby. Second 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. 
home and abroad.) 

A TREATISE ON THE ART OF GLASS PAINT- 
ING. Prefaced with a Review of Ancient Glass. By 
Ernest R. Sufflino. With One Coloured Plate and Thirty- 
seven Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 140 pp. Price Ts. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

(Paper Making and Testing.) 

THE PAPER MILL CHEMIST. By Henry P. Stevens, 
M.A., Ph.D., F.I.C. Royal 12mo. 60 Illustrations. 300 pp. 
Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE TREATMENT OF PAPER FOR SPECIAL 
PURPOSES. By L. E. Andes. Translated from the 
German. Crown 8vo. 48 Illustrations. 250 pp. Price 6s. net. 
(Post free, 6s. 5d. home ; 6s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Enamelling on Metal.) 

ENAMELS AND ENAMELLING. For Enamel 
Makers, Workers in Gold and Silver, and Manufacturers of 
Objects of Art. By Paul Randau. Second and Revised 
Edition. Translated from the German. With 16 Illustrations. 
Demy 8vo. 200 pp. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, Us. home; 
lis. 2d. abroad.) 

THE ART OF ENAMELLING ON METAL. By 

W. Norman Brown. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo. 
60 pp. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

(Textile Subjects.) 

THE FINISHING OF TEXTILE FABRICS (Woollen, 
Worsted, Union, and other Cloths). By Roberts Beaumont, 
M.Sc, M.I.Mech.E. With 150 Illustrations of Fibres, Yarns 
and* Fabrics, also Sectional and other Drawings of Finishing 
Machinery. Demy 8vo. 260 pp. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
lis. home; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

STANDARD CLOTHS: Structure and Manufacture 
(Genieral, Military and Naval). By Roberts Beaumont, M.Sc, 
M.I.Mech.E. 342 pp. Numerous Illustrations. 16 Plates in 
Monochrome and Colour. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 13s. home ; 13s. 4d. abroad.) 



14 

FIBRES USED IN TEXTILE AND ALLIED IN- 
DUSTRIES. By C. Ainsworth Mitchell, B.A. 
(Oxon.), F.I.C., and R. M. Prideaux, F.I.C. With 66 Illustra- 
tions specially drawn direct from the Fibres. Demy 8vo. 
200 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

DRESSINGS AND FINISHINGS FOR TEXTILE 
FABRICS AND THEIR APPLICATION. De- 

scription of all the Materials used in Dressing Textiles : Their 
Special Properties, the preparation of Dressings and their em- 
ployment in Finishing Linen, Cotton, Woollen and Silk Fabrics. 
Fireproof and Waterproof Dressings, together with the principal 
machinery employed. Translated from the Third German 
Edition of Fribdrich Polleyn. Demy 8vo. 280 pp. Sixty 
Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. 
abroad.) 

POWER.LOOM WEAVING AND YARN NUMBER- 
ING, According to Various Systems, with Conversion 
Tables. Translated from the German of Anthon Gruner. With 
Twenty-8lx Diafframs in Coiours. 150 pp. Crown 8vo. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lid. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

TEXTILE RAW MATERIALS AND THEIR CON- 
VERSION INTO YARNS. (The Study of the Raw 
Materials and the Technology of the Spinning Process.) By 
Julius Zipser. Translated from German by Charles Salter. 
302 Illustrations. 500 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, lis. Id. home; lis. 8d. abroad.) 

GRAMMAR OF TEXTILE DESIGN. By H. Nisbet, 
Weaving and Designing Master, Bolton Municipal Technical 
School. Demy 8vo. 2S) pp. 490 Illustrations and Diagrams. 
Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 5d. home; 6s. 8d. abroad.) 

ART NEEDLEWORK AND DESIGN. POINT 
LACE. A Manual of Applied Art for Secondary Schools 
and Continuation Classes. By M. E. Wilkinson. Oblong 
quarto. With 22 Plates. Bound in Art Linen. Price Ss. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 4s. home and abroad.) 

HOME LACE-MAKING. A Handbook for Teachers and 
Pupils. By M. E. W. Milroy. Crown 8vo. 64 pp. With 3 
Plates and 9 Diagrams. [Revised Edition in preparation. 

CHURCH LACE. By M. E. W. Milroy. In preparation. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF HAT MANUFACTURING. 

Lectures delivered before the Hat Manufacturers' Association. 
By Watson Smith, F.C.S., F.I.C. Revised and Edited by 
Albert Shonk. Crown 8vo. 132 pp. 16 Illustrations. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lid. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

For contents of these books^ see List II. 



15 

THE TECHNICAL TESTING OF YARNS AND 
TEXTILE FABRICS. With Reference to Official 
Specifications. Translated from the German of Dr. J. Herzpeld. 
Second Edition. Sixty-nine Illustrations. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. 
Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, Us. home; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

DECORATIVE AND FANCY TEXTILE FABRICS. 

By R. T. Lord. For Manufacturers and Designers of Carpets, 
Damask, Dress and all Textile Fabrics. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. 
132 Designs and Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

THEORY AND PRACTICE OF DAMASK WEAV- 
ING. By H. KiNZER and K. Walter. Royal 8vo. 
Eighteen Folding Plates. Six Illustrations. Translated from 
the German. 110 pp. Price 8s. 6d. net. (Post free, 9s. home ; 
9s. 2d. abroad.) 

FAULTS IN THE MANUFACTURE OF WOOLLEN 
GOODS AND THEIR PREVENTION. By 

Nicolas Reiser. Translated from the Second German Edition. 
Crown 8vo. Sixty-three Illustrations. 170 pp. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

SPINNING AND WEAVING CALCULATIONS, 

especially relating to Woollens. From the German of N. 
Reiser. Thirty-four Illustrations. Tables. 160 pp. Demy 
8vo. 1904. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 2d. 
abroad.) 

WORSTED SPINNERS' PRACTICAL HANDBOOK. 

By H. Turner. 148 pp. 54 Drawings. Crown 8vo. Price 6s. 
net. (Post free, 6s. 5d. home ; 6s. 6d. abroad.) 

ANALYSIS OF WOVEN FABRICS. By A. F. Barker, 
M.Sc, and E. Midgley. Demy8vo. 316 pp. Numerous Tables, 
Examples and 82 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home ; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

WATERPROOFING OF FABRICS. By Dr. S. Mier- 
ziNSKi. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo. 
140 pp. 29 Illus. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 
5s. 6d. abroad.) 

HOW TO MAKE A WOOLLEN MILL PAY. By 

John Mackie. Crown 8vo. 76 pp. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

YARN AND WARP SIZING IN ALL ITS 
BRANCHES. Translated from the German of Carl 
Kretschmar. Royal 8vo. 123 Illustrations. 150 pp. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 4d. abroad.) 
(For * Textile Soaps and Oils " see p, 7.) 



16 

(Dyeing, Colour Printing, Matcliing 
and Dye-stuffs.) 

THE COLOUR PRINTING OF CARPET YARNS. 

Manual for Colour Chemists and Textile Printers. By David 
Paterson, F.C.S. Seventeen Illustrations. 136 pp. Demy 
8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

TEXTILE COLOUR MIXING. By David Paterson, 
F.R.S.E., F.C.S. Formerly published under title of '* Science of 
Colour Mixing ". Second Revised Edition. Demy 8vo. 140 pp. 
41 Illustrations, with 5 Coloured Plates and 4 Plates shov/ing 
Dyed Specimens. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home 
8s. 2d. abroad.) 

DYERS' MATERIALS : An Introduction to the Examina- 
tion, Evaluation and Application of the most important Sub- 
stances used in Dyeing, Printing, Bleaching and Finishing. By 
Paul Heerman, Ph.D. Translated from the German by A. C5. 
Wright, M.A. (Oxon)., B.Sc. (Lond.). Twenty-four Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo. 150 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 
5s. 6d. abroad.) 

COLOUR MATCHING ON TEXTILES. A Manual 
intended for the use of Students of Colour Chemistry, Dyeing and 
Textile Printing. By David Paterson, F.C.S. Coloured Frontis- 
piece. Twenty-nine Illustrations and Fourteen Specimens Of 
Dyed Fabrics. Demy 8vo. 132 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

COLOUR : A HANDBOOK OF THE THEORY OF 
COLOUR. By George H. Hurst. With Eleven 
Coioured Plates and Seventy-two Illustrations. Second Edition. 
Demy 8vo. 168 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 
8s. 2d. abroad.) 

THE ART OF DYEING WOOL, SILK AND 
COTTON. Translated from the French of M. Hellot, 
M. Macquer and M. le Pileur D*Apliony. First Published in 
English in 1789. Six Plates. Demy 8vo. 446 pp. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 6d. home ; 6s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OF DYE-STUFFS. By Dr. Georg 
Von Georgievics. Translated from the Second German Edition. 
412 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, Us. home; 
Us. 4d. abroad.) 

THE DYEING OF COTTON FABRICS : A Practical 
Handbook for the Dyer and Student. By Franklin Beech, 
Practical Colourist and Chemist. 272 pp. Second Revised 
Edition. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free. Us. home; Us. 2d. 
abroad.) 

THE DYEING OF WOOLLEN FABRICS. By 
Franklin Beech, Practical Colourist and Chemist. Thirty- 
three Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 228 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

For contents of thfse books, see List U, 



17 

(Silk Manufacture.) 

SILK THROWING AND WASTE SILK SPIN- 
NING. By HoLLiNS Rayner. Demy 8vo. 170 pp. 
117 Illus. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home; 5s. 8d. abroad.) 

(Bleaching and Bleaching Agents.) 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE BLEACHING 
OF LINEN AND COTTON YARN AND FABRICS. 

By L. Tailfer, Chemical and Mechanical Engineer. Trans- 
lated from the French by John Geddes McIntosh. Demy 8vo. 
Second Revised Edition. 370 pp. Price ISs. net. (Post free> 
15s. 6d. home; 16s. abroad.) 
MODERN BLEACHING AGENTS AND DETER- 
GENTS. By Professor Max Bottler. Translated 
from the German. Crown 8vo. 16 Illustrations. 160 pages. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Cotton Spinning, Cotton Waste and 
Cotton Combing.) 

COTTON SPINNING (First Year). By Thomas 
Thornley, Spinning Master, Bolton Technical School. 160 pp. 
84 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Second Impression. Price 3s. 
net. (Post free, 3s. 5d. home; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 

COTTON SPINNING (Intermediate, or Second Year). 
By T. Thornley. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 320 pp. 
114 Drawings. Crown 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. 
home ; 8s. 2J. abroad.) 

COTTON SPINNING (Honours, or Third Year). By 
T. Thornley. 216 pp 74 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Second 
Edition. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

COTTON COMBING MACHINES. By Thos. Thorn- 
ley, Spinning Master, Technical School, Bolton. Demy 8vo. 
117 Illustrations. 300 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. 
home ; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

COTTON WASTE : Its Production, Characteristics, 
Regulation, Opening, Carding, Spinning and Weaving. By Thomas 
Thornley. Demy8vo. 286 pages. 60 Illustrations. Price 7s 6d. 
net. (Post free, 8s. home; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE RING SPINNING FRAME : GUIDE FOR 
OVERLOOKERS AND STUDENTS. By N. Booth. 

Crown 8vo. 76 pages. Price 3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 4d. home 
and abroad.) 

(Flax, Hemp and Jute Spinning.) 

MODERN FLAX, HEMP AND JUTE SPINNING 
AND TWISTING. A Practical Handbook for the use 
of Flax, Hemp and Jute Spinners, Thread, Twine and Rope 
Makers. By Herbert R. Carter, Mill Manager, Textile Expert 
and Engineer, Examiner in Flax Spinning to the City and Guilds of 
London Institute. Demy 8vo. 1907. With 92 Illustrations. 200 
pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. Ud. home; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 



18 

(Collieries and Mines.) 

RECOVERY WORK AFTER PIT FIRES. By Robert 
Lamprbcht, Mining Engineer and Manager. Translated from 
the German. Illustrated by Six large Plates, containing Seventy- 
six Illustrations. 175 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free. lis. home; lis. 2d. abroad.) 

VENTILATION IN MINES. By Robert Wabner, 
Mining Engineer. Translated from the German. Royal 8vo. 
Thirty Plates and Twenty-two Illustrations. 240 pp. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 6d. abroad.) 

THE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT OF COLLIERIES. 
By W. Galloway Duncan and David Penman. Demy 8vo. 
310 pp. 155 Illustrations and Diagrams. Price 10s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, lis. home; Us. 4d. abroad.) 

(Dental Metallurgy.) 

DENTAL METALLURGY: MANUAL FOR STU- 
DENTS AND DENTISTS. By A. B. Griffiths, 
Ph.D. Demy 8vo. Thirty-six Illustrations. 200 pp. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, Ss. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

(Engineering and Metallurgy.) 

THE PREVENTION OF SMOKE. Combined with 
the Economical Combustion of Fuel. By W. C. Popplewell, 
M.Sc, A.M. Inst., C.E., Consulting Engineer. Forty-six Illus- 
trations. 190 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

GAS AND COAL DUST FIRING. A Critical Review 

of the Various Appliances Patented in Germany for this purpose 
since 1885. By Albert PCJtsch. 130 pp. Demy 8vo. Trans^ 
lated from the German. With 103 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE HARDENING AND TEMPERING OF STEEL 
IN THEORY AND PRACTICE. By Fridolin 
Reiser. Translated from the German of the Third Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 120 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home and 
abroad.) 

SIDEROLOGY: THE SCIENCE OF IRON (The 
Constitution of Iron Alloys and Slags). Translated from 
German of Hanns Freiherr v. Juptner. 350 pp. Demy 8vo. 
Eleven Plates and Ten Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, lis. home; lis. 4d. abroad.) 

EVAPORATING, CONDENSING AND COOLING 
APPARATUS. Explanations, Formulae and Tables 
for Use in Practice. By E. Hausbrand, Engineer. Translated 
by A. C. Wright, M.A. (Oxon.), B.Sc. (Lond.). With Twenty- 
one Illustrations and Seventy-six Tables. Second English Edition. 
Revised with Conversion Diagrams for Converting from Metric to 
British Units. 400 pp. Demy 8vo. Pricel2s.6d.net. (Post free, 
13s. home; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

For contents of these hooksy see Lists II and III, 



(The ** Broadway'' Series of Engineering 
Handbooks.) 

Uniform in Size : Narrow Crown 8vo. (Pocket Size.) 
Volume I. ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF RE- 
INPORCED CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION. By 

EwART S. Andrews, B.Sc. Eng. (Lond.). 200 pages. With 57 
Illustrations. Numerous Tables and Worked Examples. Price 
3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 5d. home ; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 

Volume II. GAS AND OIL ENGINES. By A. 
KiRSCHKE. Translated and Revised from the German, and 
adapted to British practice. 160 pages. 55 Illustrations. 
Price 3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 5d. home ; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 

Volume III.  IRON AND STEEL CONSTRUC- 
TIONAL WORK. By K. Schindler. Translated 
and Revised from the German, and adapted to British practice. 
140 pages. 115 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post iree, 
3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume IV. TOOTHED GEARING. By G. T^White, 

B.Sc. (Lond.). 220 pages. 136 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume V. STEAM TURBINES : Their Theory and 
Construction. By H. Wilda. Translated from the German ; 
Revised and adapted to British practice. 200 pages. 104 Illustra- 
tions. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume VI. CRANES AND HOISTS. Their Construc- 
tion and Calculation. By H. Wilda. Translated from the German ; 
revised and adapted to British practice. 168 pages. 399 Illustra- 
tions. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume VI I FOUNDRY MACHINERY. By E. 
Treiber. Translated from the German ; revised and adapted to 
British practice. 148 pages. 51 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume VI 1 1. MOTOR CAR MECHANISM. By 
W. E. Dommett, Wh.Ex., A.M.I.A.E. 200 pages. 102 Illustra- 
tions. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume IX. ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OP 
ILLUMINATION AND ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING. 

By A. Blok, B.Sc. 240 pages. 124 Illustrations and Diagrams 
and 1 Folding Plate. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid, 
home ; 4s. abroad.) 
Volume X. HYDRA ULI C S. By E. H. Sprague, 
A.M.I. C.E. 190 pages. With Worked Examples and 89 Illustra- 
tions. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume XI  ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF 
SURVEYING. By M. T. M. Ormsby, M.I.C.E.I. 
244 pages. With Worked Examples and 135 Illustrations and 
Diagrams, including 4 Folding Plates. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 
4s. 5d. home; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

Volume XII. THE SCIENCE OF WORKS MANAGE- 
MENT. By John Batey. 232 pages. Price 4s. net. 
(Post free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 



20 

Volume XIII. THE CALCULUS FOR ENGINEERS. 

By EwART S. Andrews, B.Sc.Eng. (Lx)nd.), and H. Bryon 
Heywood, D.Sc. (Paris), B.Sc. (Lond.). 284 pages. 102 Illustra- 
tions. With Tables and Worked Examples. Price 4s. net. (Post 
free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 
Volume XIV.  LATHES: Their Construction and 
Operation. By G. W. Burley, A.M.I.M.E., Wh.Ex. 244 pages. 
200 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lid. home; 
4s. abroad.) 

Volume XV. STEAM BOILERS AND COMBUS- 
TION. By John Batey. 220 pages. 18 Diagrams. 
Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

Volume XV I. REINFORCED CONCRETE IN PRAC- 
TICE. By A. Alban H. Scott, M.S.A., M.C.I. 190 pp. 
130 Illustrations and Diagrams and 2 Folding Plates. Price 4s. 
net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

Volume XVII.  STABILITY OP MASONRY. By 
E. H. Sprague, A.M.I.C.E. 180 pp. 92 Illustrations. 3 Folding 
Plat6 and Worked Examples. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. 
home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 

Volume XVI II. TESTING OF MACHINE TOOLS. 

By G. W. Burley, Wh.Ex., A.M.I. M.E. 240 pp. 110 Illustra- 
tions. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. home ; 4s. 6d. abroad.) 
Volume XIX. BRIDGE FOUNDATIONS. By W. 
BuRNSiDE, M.I.C.E. 148 pp. 31 Diagrams. Price4s.net. (Post 
free, 4s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

Volume XX. THE STABILITY OF ARCHES. By 

E. H. Sprague, A.M.I.C.E. 150 pp. 58 Diagrams. 5 Folding 
Plates. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 5d. home ; 49. 6d. abroad.) 

Volume XXI.  ELEMENTARY MATHEMATICS 
FOR ENGINEERS. By E. H. Sprague, A.M.I.C.E. 
236 pp. 101 Diagrams. Price 4s. net. (Post free, 4s. 4d. home ; 
4s. 6d. abroad.) 

[IN PREPARATION.] 

CALCULATIONS FOR STEEL FRAME STRUCTURES. By W. C. Cocking, M.C.I. 

DRIVING OF MACHINE TOOLS. By T. R. Shaw. 

DESIGN OF MACHINE ELEMENTS (in 2 Volumes). By W. G. Dunkley. 

ELEMENTS OF GRAPHIC STATICS. By E. H. Sprague, A.M.I.C.E. 

STRENGTH OF STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS. By E H. Sprague, A.M.I C.E. 

GEAR CUTTING. By G. W. Burley, Wh.Ex., A.M.I M.E. 

MOVING LOADS BY INFLUENCE LINES AND OTHER METHODS. By E. H. 

Sprague, A M.I.C.E. 
DRAWING OFFICE PRACTICE. By W. Clegg. 
ESTIMATING STEELWORK FOR BUILDINGS. By B. P. F. Gleed and S. 

Bylander, M C.I. 
THE THEORY OF THE CENTRIFUGAL AND TURBO PUMP. By J. Well8 

Cameron. 
STRENGTH OF SHIPS. By James Bertram Thomas. 
MACHINE SHOP PRACTICE. By G. W. Burley, Wh.Ex., A.M.I. M.E. 
IRON AND STEEL. By J. S. Glen Primrose. 
ELECTRIC TRACTION. By H. M. Savers. 
PRECISION GRINDING MACHINES. By T. R. Shaw. 

For contents of these books ^ see List III, 



^1 
(Sanitary Plumbing, Metal Work, etc.) 

EXTERNAL PLUMBING WORK. A Treatise on 
Lead Work for Roofs. By John W. Hart, R.P.C. 180 Illustra- 
tions. 272 pp. Demy 8vo. Second Edition Revised. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, Ss. home ; Ss. 2d. abroad.) 

HINTS TO PLUMBERS ON JOINT WIPING, PIPE 
BENDING AND LEAD BURNING. Third Edition, 
Revised and Corrected. By John W. Hart, R.P.C. 184 Illus- 
trations. 313 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home ; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

SANITARY PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE. By 

John W. Hart. Demy 8vo. With 208 Illustrations. 250 pp. 
1904. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

THE PRINCIPLES OP HOT WATER SUPPLY. By 

John W. Hart, R.P.C. With 129 Illustrations. 177 pp. Demy 
8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 2d. abroad.) 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF DIPPING, 
BURNISHING, LACQUERING AND BRONZ- 
ING BRASS WARE. By W. Norman Brown. 
Revised and Enlarged Edition. Crown 8vo. 48 pp. Price 
3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

A HANDBOOK ON JAPANNING. For Ironware, 
Tinware, and Wood, etc. By William Norman Brown. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 70 pages. 13 Illustrations. Price 
3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lOd. home and abroad.) 

SHEET METAL WORKING. Cutting, Punching, 
Bending, Folding, Pressing, Drawing and Embossing Metals, 
with Machinery for same. By F. Georgi and A. Schubert. 
Translated from the German. Demy 8vo. 160 pages. 125 Draw- 
ings and Illustrations. 2 Folding Plates. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home and abroad.) 

(Electric Wiring, etc.) 

THE DEVELOPMENT OP THE INCANDESCENT 
ELECTRIC LAMP. By G. Basil Barham, A.M.I.E.E. 
Demy 8vo. 200 pages. 2 Plates, 25 Illustrations and 10 Tables. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 8d. abroad.) 

WIRING CALCULATIONS FOR ELECTRIC 
LIGHT AND POWER INSTALLATIONS. A 
Practical Handbook containing Wiring Tables, Rules, and 
Formulae for the Use of Architects, Engineers, Mining Engineers, 
and Electricians, Wiring Contractors and Wiremen, etc. By G. 
W. LuMMis Paterson. Crown 8vo. 96 pages. 35 Tables. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

ELECTRIC WIRING AND FITTING. By Sydney F. 
Walker, R.N., M.I.E.E., M.I.Min.E., A.M.Inst.C.E., etc., etc. 
Crown 8vo. 150 pp. With Illustrations and Tables. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 



22 

(Brewing and Botanical.) 

HOPS IN THEIR BOTANICAL, AGRICULTURAL 
AND TECHNICAL ASPECT, AND AS AN 
ARTICLE OP COMMERCE. By Emmanuel Gross. 
Translated from the German. 78 I llus. 340 pp. DemySvo. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home ; lis 4d. abroad.) 

INSECTICIDES, FUNGICIDES AND WEED- 
KILLERS. By E. Bourcart, D.Sc. Translated from 
the French. Revised and Adapted to British Standards and 
Practice. Demy 8vo. 450 pages, S3 Tables, and 12 Illustrations. 
Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 4d. abroad.) 
{For Agricultural Chemistry ^ see p. g.) 

(Wood Products, Timber and Wood Waste.) 

WOOD PRODUCTS : DISTILLATES AND EX- 
TRACTS. By P. DuMESNY, Chemical Engineer, 
Expert before the Lyons Commercial Tribunal, Member of the 
International Association of Leather Chemists; and J. Noyer, 
Translated from the French by Donald Grant. Royal 8vo, 
320 pp. 103 Illustrations and Numerous Tables. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lis. Id home ; lis. 8d. abroad.) 

TIMBER : A Comprehensive Study of Wood in all its 
Aspects (Commercial and Botanical), showing the different 
Applications and Uses of Timber in Various Trades, etc. Trans- 
lated from the French of Paul Charpentier. Royal 8vo. 437 
pp. 178 Illustrations. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 
13s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE UTILISATION OP WOOD WASTE. Trans- 
lated from the German of E. Hubbard. Second Revised English 
Edition. Crown 8vo. 208 pp. 50 lUus. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(See also Utilisation of Waste Products^ p, 9.) 

(Building and Architecture.) 

ORNAMENTAL CEMENT WORK. By Oliver 
Wheatley. Demy 8vo. 83 Illustrations. 128 pp. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE PREVENTION OP DAMPNESS IN BUtLD- 
INGS; with Remarks on the Causes, Nature and 
Effects of Saline, Efflorescences and Dry-rot, for Architects, 
Builders, Overseers, Plasterers, Painters and House Owners. 
By Adolf Wilhelm Keim. I'ranslated from the German of the 
Second Revised Edition. Eight Coloured Plates and Thirteen 
Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 115 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 
5s. 4d. home and abroad.) 

HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL TERMS USED IN 
ARCHITECTURE AND BUILDING, AND THEIR 
ALLIED TRADES AND SUBJECTS. By Augus- 
tine C. Passmore. Demy 8vo. 380 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 4d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, se4 List III, 



23 

(Foods, Drugs and Sweetmeats.) 

FOOD AND DRUGS. By E.J. Parry, B.Sc.,F.I.C.,F.C.S. 
Volume I. The Analysis of Food and Drugs (Chemical and 

Microscopical). Royal 8vo. 724 pp. Price 21s. net. (Post 

free, 21s. 7d. home; 22s. 6d. British Colonies; 23s. 3d. other 

Foreign Countries.) 
Volume II. The Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, 1875-1907. 

Royal Svo. 184 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 

8s. 4d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF PRESERVED FOODS 
AND SWEETMEATS. By A. Hausner. With 
Twenty-eight Illustrations. Translated from the German of the 
third enlarged Edition. Second English Edition. Crown 8vo. 225 
pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. 1 Id. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

RECIPES FOR THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT, 
VEGETABLES AND MEAT. By E. Wagner. 
Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 125 pp. With 14 
Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. 
abroad.) 

(Dyeing Fancy Goods.) 

THE ART OF DYEING AND STAINING MARBLE, 
ARTIFICIAL STONE, BONE, HORN, IVORY 
AND WOOD, AND OF IMITATING ALL SORTS 
OF WOOD. A Practical Handbook for the Use of 

Joiners, Turners, Manufacturers of Fancy Goods, Stick and 
Umbrella Makers, Comb Makers, etc. Translated from the 
German of D. H. Soxhlet, Technical Chemist. Crown 8vo. 
168 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Celluloid.) 

CELLULOID : Its Raw Material, Manufacture, Properties 
and Uses. A Handbook for Manufacturers of Celluloid and 
Celluloid Articles, and all Industries using Celluloid ; also for 
Dentists and Teeth Specialists. By Dr. Fr. B5ckmann, Tech- 
nical Chemist. Translated from the Third Revised German 
Edition. Crown 8vo. 120 pp. With 49 Illustrations. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Lithography, Printing and 
Engraving.) 

ART OF LITHOGRAPHY. By H. J. Rhodes. Demy 
8vo. 344 pages. 120 Illustrations. 2 Folding Plates. Copious 
combined Index and Glossary. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
lis. home ; lis. 4d. 'abroad.) 



24 

PRINTERS' AND STATIONERS' READY 
RECKONER AND COMPENDIUM. Compiled by 
Victor Graham. Crown 8vo. 112 pp. 1904. Price 3s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 3s. lid. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

ENGRAVING FOR ILLUSTRATION. HISTORI- 
CAL AND PRACTICAL NOTES. By J. Kirkbride. 
72 pp. Two Plates and 6 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Price 
2s. 6d. net. (Post free, 2s. lOd. home and abroad.) 
{For Printing Jnks, see p. 4.) 

(Bookbinding.) 

PRACTICAL BOOKBINDING. By Paul Adam. 

Translated from ine German. Crown 8vo. 180 pp. 127 Illus- 
trations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Sugar Refining.) 

THE TECHNOLOGY OP SUGAR : Practical Treatise 
on the Modern Methods of Manufacture of Sugar from the Sugar 
Cane and Sugar Beet. By John Geddes McIntosh. Third Edi- 
tion, Revised and Enlarged. Demy Svo. 540 pages. 244 Illustra- 
tions. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

{See * Evaporating, Condensing, etc., Apparatus,^' p. i8.) 

(Emery.) 

EMERY AND THE EMERY INDUSTRY. Trans- 
lated from the German of A. Haenig. Crown Svo. 45 lUus. 
104 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 5d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Technical Schools.) 

HANDBOOK TO THE TECHNICAL AND ART 
SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES OF THE UNITED 
KINGDOM. Containing particulars of nearly 1,000 
Technical, Commercial and Art Schools throughout the United 
Kingdom. With full particulars of the courses of instruction, 
names of principals, secretaries, etc. Demy Svo. 150 pp. Price 
3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 4s. home and abroad.) 



SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON 

(E. GREENWOOD, Proprietor), 
TECHNICAL BOOK AND TRADE JOURNAL PUBLISHERS, 

8 BROADWAY, LUDGATE, LONDON, EX. 

Telegraphic Address, " Printeries, Cent., London ". February, 1917. 



I 



THIS BOOK IS BUE ON THE LAST DATE 
STAMPED BELOW 



IAN INITIAL FINE OT 25 CENTS 

1^1 LL BE ASSESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN 
THIS BOOK ON THE DATE DUE, THE PENALTY 
WILL INCREASE TO SO GENTS ON THE FOURTH 
DAY AND TO %X^OQ ON THE SEVENTH DAY 
OVEROUl, 





{ 


SEP 19 1 


940 


^^ n a* 




ewi ^ ^" 




ISJjif''iti/fif 




flUGl 9)353 LU 


























































LD 21-100m-V39(4028) i 



VB \5\5G 





380653 7y 



IMVERSrrV OF CAUFORNIA LIBRARY 




Corne 

(\aiil3 


H XHniversit^ 


Xibrari? 

OF THE 

tate CoUege of agriculture 

2b vU5 





3778 



Cornell University Library 
TX 603.W13 



Recipes for the preserving of friut, veg 




3 1924 003 571 084 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003571084 



RECIPES FOR THE PRESERVING OF 
FRUIT, VEGETABLES, AND MEAT 



RECIPES FOR 

THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

VEGETABLES. AND MEAT 



BY 



E. WAGNER 



TECHNICAL MANAGER OF THE PRESERVING AND MARMALADE DEPARTMENTS 
OF THE TRACHENBERO SUGAR BOILING WORKS 



TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN 
By CHAS. SALTER 



WITH FOURTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS 



LONDON 

SCOTT, GEEENWOOD & SON 

8 BROADWAY, LUDGATE HILL, E.C, 



CANADA : THE COPP CLABK CO. LTD., TORONTO 
UNITED STATES : D. VAN NOSTRAND CO., NEW YORK 

1908 

[Tlie sole right of Translation into English rests with Scott, Qreenwood <t Son] 

L.L 



PREFACE 



It has been long the desire of the author to bring 
out a larger useful work on the preserving industry 
in its present state, but the continued introduction 
of improvements in the last few years prevented 
an exhaustive report being drawn up. At present, 
however, we may be said to have reached a certain 
degree of stability, at least so far as the important 
matter of stoppers and closing devices is concerned. 

The author has therefore, on the basis of his 
practical experience of over thirty years' duration, 
endeavoured in the present work to provide 
instruction for both the beginner and the expert. 

The points dealt with comprise the recipes and 
instructions for preserving, and the necessary 
utensils and machinery, the work being divided 
into three parts : the first deaUng with the 
preserving of fruit, the second with that of 
vegetables, and the third with preserved meat. 



vi PREFACE 

In all recipes the weights have been given in 
order to minimise the chance of unur, and also 
to enable beginners to work according to instruc- 
tions. 

It is also hoped that the I k will be of service 

as an advisor and work of reference to preserve- 
makers and their managers ; and if this result be 
attained, the author will liuvu the gratification of 
feeling that he has supplied a genuine need. 

THE AUTHOR. 
1906. 



CONTENTS 



paht I. preserved fruits. 



Preserved Fruits 


PAGE 

3 


Green Almonds 




5 


Gooseberries . 




6 


Garden Strawberries 




7 


Wild Strawberries . 




8 


Currants 




8 


Unstoned Cherries 




8 


Stoned Cherries . 




9 


Unstoned Mahaleb (Scented) 




Cherries 




9 


Black (Unskinned) Nuts 




9 


White Nuts . 




10 


Apricots cut in Halves 


and 




ykiuued 




11 


Unskinned Apricots cut in 




Halves 




11 


Whole Apricots 




11 


Mirabelle (Small Yellow) 




Plums 




12 


Greengages 




12 


Whole Pears . 




13 


Halved Pears 




14 


Cornelian Cljerries 




14 


Peaches (Halved) . 




1.5 


Peaches (Wliole) . 




15 


Quinces . 




16 


Koseberrics 




16 


Skinned Plrinis 




17 


Raspberries 




18 


Blackberries . 




18 


Bilberries 




18 


Cranberries 




18 


Figs 




19 


Melons . 




20 


Apples .... 




20 


Genoa Orans^eSj Green 


and 




Yellow \ 




21 


Chestnuts 




21 


Angelica 




'^2 


Mixed Fruit . 




22 


Pineapple 




23 


Plums in Vinegar . 




23 


Cherries in Vinegar 




24 


Canned Fkuit. 






Gooseberries . 




25 


Strawberries, Uncooked 




25 



PAGE 

Currants . . . .26 
Dark Cherries with the Stones 

in 26 

Light Cherries with the Stones 

in 26 

Stoned Cherries . . .26 
Mahaleb or Scented Cherries . 27 
Pears, Whole or in Halves . 27 
Apricots, cut into Halves . 27 
Apricots, Whole Fruit . . 28 
Skinned Apricots . . .28 
Small Yellow (Miralielle) 

Plums . . . 28 

Greengages . . . .29 
Peaches, Whole or Halved , 29 
Late Plums, Unstoned . . 29 
Preserved Rhubarb . . 30 
Bilberries . . . .30 

Glazed axd Candied Fruits 

Glazing Fruit . . 33 

Candied Fruit . 35 

Blue Plums . 36 

Glazed Chestnuts . . 37 

Glazed Pineapple Slices . 39 

Crystallised Strawberries . 40 

Mustarda . . . 40 

Marmalades, Jams, and 
FiiuiT Juices. 

Strawberry Marmalade . 45 

Raspberry Marmalade . 45 

Currant Marmalade . 45 

Scented Cherry Marmalatle 46 

Cherry Marmalade . . 46 

Greengage Marmalade . 46 

Late Plum Marmalade . 46 

Peach Marmalade . 46 

Roseberry Marmalade . 46 

Apricot Marmalade (Best) . 46 
Apricot Marmalade (Second 

Quality) .... 47 

Steeped Plums . . 47 

Apple Marmalade . . 47 

English Orange Marnialaile 47 

Tomato Marmalade . . 48 

Apricot Jam ... 48 



CONTENTS 



Goosuberry Jam . 
Red Ourraut Jam 
Raspberry Jam 
Strawberry Jam . 
Cbeir}- Jam . 
JlcneUa Cberry Jam 
Bilberry Jam 
Blackberry Jam . 
Strawberry and Gooselierry 

Jam . 
Plum Jam . . . . 
Raspberry and Red Currant 

Jam . . . . . 
Pineapple Jam 

Fktjit Jellies. 
Apple Jelly . 
Quince Jelly . 



PAGE 

48 Currant Jelly 

49 Raspberry Jelly . 
49 Strawberry Jelly 
49 Cranberry Jelly 

49 Blaeklierry Jelly . 

50 Ai^ricot Jelly 
50 Peach Jelly . 
50 Raspberry Juice . 

Strawberry Juice . 

52 Cherry Jiul-l- . 
Lemon Syrup 
Orange Syrup 
Pineapple Juice 

52 Fruit Pulp for Ices 
Citron Peel and 
Peel . 

55 Orange Peel 

55 Neutralin 



Orange 



PAGE 

. 56 

. 56 

56 

56 

56 

. 56 

56 

57 

58 

. 58 

. 59 

59 

60 

61 

62 

65 



Part II. PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 



General Remarks . 

Asparagus 

Peas 

Beans . 

Flageolet Beans 

Sliced Beans . 

French Beans 

Carrots . 

Spinach . 

Artieholvcs 

Tomatoes .... 

Mixed Vegetables (Macedoiue) 

Tinned Julienne . 



71 
78 



Leipzig All-Sorts . 
Celery Chunks 
Mushrooms . 
Edible Boletus 

Morels, Orange Agaric (Lact- 
arium), Chanterelles, etc. . 
Pickled Mushrooms 

Truffles 

Pickled Gherkins (Corniehons) 
Salted Glierkins 
Gherkins in Mustard 
Mixed Pickles 
Piccalilli 



Pakt III. PRESERVED MEATS. 



93 
93 
93 
94 

94 
95 
95 
96 
96 
97 
98 



Preserved Meats 

Veal Cutlets . 

Veal Cutlets and Peas . 

FricanJeau of Veal and R' 

Veal . 
Roast Veal . 
\'eal Goulaseh 
Cal [ 's Head en Tortue 
Servian Hire Meat. 
Beet tiuulascii 
Bouillon Mcid 
Roast Beet 
Roast Beef and Oninu 

Sardines 
Steak and Potatoes 
Hungarian Sirloin . 
Szt''lvelv Goulaseh . 



oiled 



103 
104 
104 

105 
105 
105 
106 
106 
106 
107 
107 

108 
108 
108 
108 



of 



Ox Tongue with Pure 

Peas or Sauerkraut . . 109 
Ribs of Pork and Sauerkraut 109 
Vienna Sausage and Sauer- 



kraut 
Beet d In Afnjr . 
Roast Hare and Macaroni 
Roast ^'euison 
Roast Wild Boar . 
i\Iutton and Cabbage 
0.x Tongue 
Savoury Past 
Beef Paste 
Hare Paste 
Veuisou Paste 
Game Paste . 
Foie Gras Paste 
Index 



109 

110 

110 

111 

111 

111 

. 112 

(Appetit-Pain) 113 

 113 

114 

114 

114 

115 

117 



PART I. 

PRESERVED FRUITS 



PRESERVED FRUITS. 

For simplicity this section will be divided into  
stewed fruits in bottles and tins ; candied fruits ; 
fruit juices and pulps ; jellies and marmalades. 
The manufacture of citron, orange peel, etc., is dealt 
with separately. 

The first point to be observed is that the best 
utensils for boiling fruit are shallow copper or 
enamelled pans, about 18 inches across, 4 inches 
deep, and fitted with two handles. The fruit syrup 
for candied fruit is preferably stored in stoneware 
jars, or deep earthenware dishes, glazed inside, and 
holding about 20 lb. These must be kept in a 
good, dry cellar, whereas a cool room on the ground 
floor is sufficient for bottled fruit. 

Steam-heating is the best for preserving, though 
fairly large quantities can be boiled over a coke 
fire. A few coke fires are also required for 
certain purposes, even when steam-heated plant is 
employed. 

The manufacture of patent stoppers for glass 
vessels has now reached such a state of perfection 
that one or other of the various kinds on the 
market {e.g. the " Phoenix " or " Le Cachet ") should 
invariably be used. They are fixed in position by 



4 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

a machine, supplied by tlie makers, and make a 
perfectly tight joint, besides being easy to open. 

The sterilising process is performed in an iron 
tank, fitted with a steam coil (Fig. 1) and an over- 
Ijdng grating, on which rest the wo(3den crates 
containing the bottles. A steam closet (Fig. 2), 
heated by direct steam, may also be used for this 
purpose. 

The fruit is filled into the bottles by girls or 
women armed with long-handled wooden knives 
or brass forks. 




i'lG. 1. 

The clarified syrup should have a density of 25. 

Bottled fruits should always be sterilised for 
10 minutes, from the time boiling-point is reached, 
in the case of i-1j()ttle.'<, 12 minutes for J-bottles, 
and 15 minutes for full-size bottles. Only in the 
case of halved apricots, peaclies, and similar fruits 
that lie closely together, should a few minutes 
extra be allowed. 

Fruits that change colour when heated {e.g. white 
pears, peaches, and gooseberries) should be separated 
after sterilisicg, in order to accelerate cooling. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 



Qreen Almonds. 



The fruit, gathered at the proper tune, is partially 
freed from the adhering skin, and then boiled for 
several minutes in the proportion of 11 lb. of fruit 




Fig. 2.  Steam closet. 

to a gallon of water (containing 9 oz. of carbonate 
of soda). As soon as the .skins have loosened, the 
fruit is quickly turned into cold water, cleaned, and 
laid in fresh water. In the evening the almonds 
are placed in a copper pan containing boiling water. 



6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

about ^ a pint of vinegar, and a handful of salt, 
the whole being stirred up and the steam turned 
off. 

Next day the almonds are blanched in the same 
water, but raised to the boil very slowly, the fruit 
then regaining its original green colour. Boiling 
takes 1| 2 hours, according to quality. After 
cooling in repeated changes of water, the almonds 
are punctured with needles and immersed in sugar 
of 18 density. Tor compote the density is in- 
creased to 28 by four treatments, and the fruit 
is packed with fresh sugar. 

In the case of syrup fruit, which is inspissated 
to 38, an addition of 50 per cent, of syrup is given 
to prevent candying. 

Gooseberries. 

Only the large green kinds are suitable for 
preserving. The fruit is gathered when full grown, 
but still (piite hard, " topped," and nicked with a 
cross cut, not too deep. When a sufficient quantity 
has been treated in this way, it is put into a 
shallow copper pan containing boiling water, with 
a little salt and vinegar, the pan Ijeing taken off' 
the fire at once and placed on one side. 

Next day the fruit is carefully heated in the 
same pan over a slow fire and gently stirred with 
the skimming spoon, until the gooseberries rise to 
the surface, wheicupon they are taken off the fire 
and cooled with a plentiful fiow of water. "Wlien 
cold, place in cold 20" sugar, the next day 



PRESERVED FRUITS 7 

in 22 sugar, the third clay in 24" sugar, and the 
fourth day in 28 sugar, this time heating the 
fruit and sugar slowly and with care, whereupon 
the green colour will reappear. When cold, the 
berries are bottled with fresh sugar. 

Garden Strawberries. 

So-called " transparent " strawberries are obtained 
by the following method : Large, firm fruit is 
separated from the stalks, washed and placed on 
hair sieves, 10 lb. at a time. Five lb. of best 
sugar are dissolved in a corresponding quantity of 
water, mixed with an equal amount of syrup and 
a few drops of acetic acid, and boiled until a skin 
forms. The fruit is then added and boiled for 
about 10 minutes over a low fire, with continued 
shaking, until the fruit looks clear. Then skim 
and set aside to' cool, afterwards return to the fire, 
boil up, skim and recool. Colouring is added after 
the first boiling. A little water must be sprinkled 
in at each boiling, in order to keep the density of 
the syrup down to 32 when finished. 

Another method of preserving strawberries is to 
dissolve a suitable quantity of sugar to a solution 
of 32 density, colouring it with fruit red. A flat 
copper or enamelled pan is half-filled with the 
cleaned fruit, and sufficient syrup to cover it. The 
pan i.s placed on the fire and the contents raised 
to boiling, with continued shaking, then taken oiT 
and skimmed. After several hours the pan is put 
on the fire again, boiled and skimmed, and this 



8 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

operation is repeated until the syrup has thickened 
sufficiently. If properly managed, a batch of fruit 
can be finished in one day. For bottling it is 
preferable to use fresh, coloured syrup, the other 
being utilised for strawberry syrup. 

Wild Strawberries. 

Dry, very ripe wild strawberries are picked over, 
placed in flat enamel pans, and covered with boiling, 
coloured sugar of 30 density. After cooling, the 
whole is heated to boiling, skimmed, and recooled. 

The fruit is bottled with the same sugar, with 
the aid of a perforated spoon, care being taken to 
have the fruit and sugar in the right proportions. 

Currants. 

I.arge berries are taken, carefully separated from 
the stalks, and placed in a shallow pan, boiling, 
red-stained sugar of 30 strength lieing poured over 
them. At the end of several hours the whole is 
gradually raised to the boil, skimmed, and allowed 
to cool before bottling. 

Unstoned Cherries. 

Hard, dark-coloured cherries are separated from 
their stalks, and heated in water, with continued 
stirring, until the stones have somewhat loosened 
witliiiut the fruit bursting. Remove quickly, and 
place in hot 18 sugar. WJien cold, bottle with 
the same sugar, diluted to 15 and filtered. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 



Stoned Cherries. 



Large, white-heart cherries are used, the colour 
having been improved by sulphuring them over- 
night. After stoning, the fruit is blanched by 
strong ebullition, and as soon as nearly soft, is 
treated with sufficient new-red to impart a fine 
colour. It is then placed in red-stained sugar 
(20 ) and left all night, covered over with paper. 
Next day concentrate to 28, in stages of 3, and 
boil to a finish. 

In bottling, take care that the hollows of the 
fruit are filled with sugar to prevent the top layer 
of fruit from becoming dry after evaporation. 

Unstoned Mahaleb (Scented) Cherries. 

The darker kinds are used for bottling. The 
treatment is the same as for ordinary cherries 
with the stones in. 

Black (Unskinned) Nuts. 

The time for preserving these is July. The nuts 
should not offer the slightest resistance at the tips 
when cut with a knife, though they must be properly 
developed. The nuts are pricked all over with 
stout needles, and placed in a tub of water, where 
they are left for 10-14 days, the water being 
changed daily. 

They are next blanched with plenty of water in 
large pans, this taking about 2 hours, so that they 



lo THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

no longer stick to an inserted needle, after which 
they are carefully moistened. 

The sugar used on the first day should be cold 
and of 15 density, being concentrated to 18, and 
recooled for use on the second day. This concentra- 
tion is repeated (3) daily, the sugar being always 
used cold and the nuts kept in a cool place. When 
28 is reached the sugar is poured on hot, and the 
nuts lightly boiled up with it. 

Pack with fresh sugar, placing a small packet of 
cloves and cinnamon in the bottle. If the nuts are 
to be kept in storage receptacles for subsequent 
use, they should be placed in sugar overnight, and 
put into gallon jars with hot sugar (28), then 
fastened down and stewed for I an hour in a water- 
bath. 

White Nuts. 

Only the largest and finest nuts should be used, 
the coimnon sorts being left alone. 

In peeling, cut off sufficient at top and bottom to 
reveal the white flesh ; then finish peeling with 
eight to ten circular cuts, and place in water contain- 
ing " neutralin " (q.v.). When a sufficient quantity 
has been done, they are slo^\ly blanched in a bright 
pan, in water containing a little citric acid, until 
the nuts will no longer stick to the needle. The 
work must lie very carefully done, and only a 
copper or enamelled earthenware vessel used. The 
further treatment is the same as for ))la,ck nuts, 
and must be slowly and carefully performed to 
pi'event wrinkling. 



PRESERVED FRUITS ii 

In packing into glasses, the mits are taken out 
of the first sugar, mixed with fresh (25) sugar, 
and stewed for h an hour on a water-bath. 

Apricots cut in Halves and Skinned. 

Early apricots that are still hard, though already 
yellow, are cut in halves, skinned by hand, and laid 
in water containing a little neutralin. They are then 
heated, with constant stirring and repeated additions 
of water, until the fruit rises to the surface, where- 
upon they are taken out and cooled. Later on place 
them in sugar of 24 density, and the next day 
pack with fresh sugar (25), and sterilise. 

Unskinned Apricots cut in Halves. 

The fruit must first be preserved in gallon jnrs. 
The ripe, but not overripe, apricots are divided, 
packed closely into gallon jars, and covered with 
sugar (34). The jars are then closed, immersed 
in boiling water for i an hour, thoroughly 
cooled, and put into store. 

In four to six weeks the fruit will have become 
sufficiently saturated with the sugar solution to 
be ready for bottling. Sugar of 25 density is 
used for this purpose, and the bottles are placed 
in hot water as usual. 

Whole Apricots. 

TJie whole apricots are pricked with needles 
and preserved in gallon jars as above, being after- 



12 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

wards bottled. They may, however, be prepared 
for immediate bottling by sulphuring the fruit, 
blanching it carefully in water, and then treating 
several times with sugar. 

Nevertheless, the former method is preferable 
when working on a large scale, since it enables 
large quantities of fruit to be dealt with at a 
time, the troublesome operation of packing being 
deferred until later. 



Mirabelle (Small Yellow) Plums. 

The plums are pricked in a machine, then 
placed in a large quantity of water containing 
a little powdered burnt alum, and slowly heated 
to boiling with constant stirring. As soon as they 
begin to float and crack, they must be taken out 
and placed in cold water. When cold, place them 
in 20 sugar, concentrate to 20, and bottle with 
fresh sugar. 

Greengages. 

The true, round green fruit, fully grown but still 
firm, is pricked in a machine after the stalks 
have been rem(j\'ed, and put into a large tub with 
fresh water. 

In the evening, water containing a handful of 
salt and a suitable quantity of vinegar, is boiled 
in a large copper pan, the drained fruit is put in, 
and the steam turned off. The fruit is covered 
with a suitable plate of copper, care being taken 
that there is enough water in the pan to overtop 



PRESERVED FRUITS 13 

this cover by about 4 inches, this being the only 
way in which the uppermost fruit can be prevented 
from becoming brown and useless. The small 
outlay involved must therefore not be begrudged. 
Of course a copper strainer will do equally 
well. 

On the following day the fruit is blanched, in 
smaller lots, with the same water, being kept 
stirred with the skimming ladle until nearly boiling. 
When the fruit rises to the top and begins to show 
a network of cracks, it is taken out and thoroughly 
cooled in running water. 

The cooled fruit is next placed in a shallow pan 
and covered with 20 sugar, this being concentrated 
on the following day to 24, poured over the 
fruit again, and the whole heated. When cold once 
more the fruit is bottled with fresh sugar (25). 

Whole Pears. 

Only certain varieties, such as muscadine pears, 
egg pears, French beurri^ pears, and rousselets, are 
suitable for preserving. The fruit should be full 
grown, but the pips still white, though with a slight 
tinge of brown at the tips. At this stage also the 
fruit will bear the sulphuring necessary for attaining 
perfect whiteness. The pears may also be used unsul- 
phured, being then treated with a little neutralin 
{q.v.) in blanching. 

The best way to peel the fruit is in a peeling 
machine, neutralin being added to the water. When 
a sufficient number has been peeled, the pears are 



14 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

blanched in plenty of water until they no longer 
stick to the needle, this stage being reached in 
about 2530 minutes. 

When thoroughly cooled, the pears  which, of 
course, have had the cores cut out before peeling  
are pricked and placed in a 20 solution of sugar, 
being then left overnight covered with paper. 

The following day the sugar is concentrated to 
22, and the day after that to 25, and heated up 
with the fruit, the concentration being afterwards 
continued (next day) to 28, and the cooled fruit 
bottled with fresh sugar. 

Pears that are defective in colour or spotted are 
coloured red on the second day, by adding new- 
red or fruit-red to the sugar, and heating the 
whole up together gradually, the further treatment 
being the same as just described. 

Halved Pears. 

The kinds suitable for this method are the 
summer lemon pear and summer bergamot. The 
fruit is peeled in the machine, out into halves, 
and the cores taken out with a suitable instrument, 
the fruit being then blanched and treated as already 
described. 

Cornelian Cherries. 

Large ripe fruit is taken, cleaned, heated in 
water, like cherries, so as not to break, and placed 
at once in a red-stained solution of sugar (18). 
Next day it is bottled, the same sugar being poured 



PRESERVED FRUITS 15 

over it after reconcentration to tlie original strength 
(18) and filtering. 



Peaches (Halved). 

The best sorts for preserving are the late varieties 
in which the stones do not become detached, and 
the fruit is \Yhite ileshed with brown stones. 

They must be in such a condition of ripeness 
that they can be peeled in the machine. The 
peeled fruit is cut in halves by means of a short, heavy 
knife, which is inserted into the furrow, a short 
blow being struck on a hardwood chopping board, so 
as to split stone and all. The stone is taken out 
with the same knife and the fruit trimmed up. 

The peaches are blanched, a few at a time, 
in a copper pan with water containing a little 
nciitralin, by heating them quickly to boiling and 
then leaving them to draw slowly. After cooling 
in plenty of water the fruit is placed in a 20 
solution of sugar, which is reconcentrated next day, 
the peaches being bottled with fresh sugar. 

It is also advisable in this case to first preserve 
the fruit in gallon jars containing 30 sugar, the 
jars being then heated in the water-bath for h an 
hour. Later on, when time allows, they can be 
bottled. This method gives better results. 

Peaches (Whole). 

The smaller varieties with green or white flesh, 
in which the stones become detached  the so-called 



i6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

muscatel peach  are suitable. They must be ripe 
enough for the skin to loosen when the fruit is 
thrown into boiling water, boiled quickly for some 
time, and then thrown into cold water. 

The treatment is the same as described above. 



Quinces. 

Only the apple quince is suitable for preserving, 
the pear quince being used solely for quince marma- 
lade. The fruit is peeled in a machine, cut up into 
six to eight pieces, and the cores cut out with care.. 
The water should contain a little neutral in. 

When a sufficient number have been got ready, 
the cut pieces are quickly heated to boiling in 
plenty of water, whereupon steam is turned oft', and 
the fruit left to draw, co\'ered over with a wooden 
lid, until soft enough, i.e. until the pieces no longer 
stick to the needle. When cool they are placed 
in 18 sugar, and bottled after concentration to 26. 
One portion may be coloured red, as described for 
pears. 

For stock jars, the blanched fruit is covered with 
25" sugar, and sterilised 2530 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Roseberries. 

The large garden berries are freed from adherent 
thorns by rubbing them in a bag, and then cut 
oil' at the tips sufficiently low down to enable the 
kernels to be extracted with a suitable wire hook. 
The fruit is slowly blanched in water, containing 



PRESERVED FRUITS 17 

a little burnt alum, until it feels soft, and is then 
placed in cold 18 sugar containing a little fruit- 
red. The next day it is concentrated to 26, and 
then bottled with fresh sugar. 

The wild berries are preserved with the kernels 
in, for mixed fruits, the tips being cut off far enough 
to make an opening. The fruit is scalded in boiling 
water, and placed in quart jars with 25 sugar, 
being then sterilised for 2530 minutes on a water- 
bath. 

Skinned Plums. 

The only suitable variety is the large late plum, 
the summer kinds being useless for bottling. The 
fruit must be still hard, though with a good yellow 
tlesh. The skins are removed by dropping a few 
plums at a time into boiling water, boiling them until 
the skin cracks, and then placing them quickly in 
cold water, whereupon the skins come away easily. 
The skinned fruit is placed in shallow pans with 
fresh water, containing a little neutralin, this 
enabling the yellow colour to be retained. The 
pan is slowly heated over the fire, with constant 
stirring, until the plums begin to float, whereupon 
they are removed and cooled with plenty of 
water. 

They are left overnight in 20 sugar, which is 
concentrated to 24 next day, the fruit being heated 
at the same time. When cold, bottle with fresh 
25 sugar. 

Plums bottled in their skins are best preserved 
tirst in gallon jars. The plums are pricked in a 



i8 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

machine, scalded for a moment in boiling water, 
and covered with 34 sugar, then sterilised 30 
niinutes on a water-bath. In this way the shape 
and appearance of the. fruit are preserved. 

Raspberries. 

For transparent preserve, dry, fine garden 
raspberries are taken and treated in the same way 
as strawberries. Wild raspberries for bottling are 
placed in a shallow enamelled pan, suffused with 
boiling 28 sugar, and left to stand. Later on 
the whole is carefully heated, and bottled when cold. 

Blackberries. 

The treatment is the same as for wild raspberries. 

Bilberries. 

The berries are picked, washed, and put into 
sieves. Three parts of sugar are boiled until a 
skin forms, then mixed with 7 parts of fruit, and 
carefully raised to boiling, and skimmed. When 
cold the fruit is ladled into bottles and sterilised 
on the water-bath. 

Cranberries. 

Large selected Ijerries for bottling are heated to 
boiling in water, then taken out at once and placed 
in red-stained sugar of 20 strength. Next 
day the sugar is concentrated to 24, the berries 



PRESERVED FRUITS 19 

and sugar are lieated in shallow pans, and bottled 
when cold. 

For compote in bottles or jars, 50 lb. of sugar 
should be used for every 100 lb. of fruit. The 
sugar is dissolved and boiled to strong syrup ; the 
picked, washed berries being added and carefully 
stirred while the mass is being slowly raised to 
boiling. The whole is then skimmed, and the opera- 
tion repeated several times, boiling being continued 
until a test sample thickens to a jelly. The mass is 
then cooled a little and packed whilst still hot. 

Figs. 

These may be kept fresh, but can also be 
preserved, first in gallon jars by pricking the fruit 
and blanching it with plenty of water (containing 
neutralin) until it no longer sticks to the needle. 
It is then placed in the jars, covered with 34 
sugar, and sterilised for i an hour on the water- 
bath. Treated in this way, the figs preserve 
their fine yellow colour, and are better fitted for 
bottling. 

If the figs have been stored in brine they must 
first be carefully drained. When desired to remain 
yellow and not acquire a green colour, they must 
be blanched in a properly tinned or enamelled pan. 
Salt figs take nearly 2 hours to soften properly, 
which done, they are cooled and laid in sugar of 
22 strength, afterwards increased to 25, and 
finally to 28, the figs being heated with the sugar 
at the finishing stage. 



20 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Melons. 

The only kinds suitable for preserving are the 
network melon and the Cantaloupe. The proper 
stage of ripeness is reached when the fruit will 
give at the tip under the pressure of the fingers, 
otherwise the melons must be stored until this 
condition is attained. The fruit is cut into halves, 
the seeds taken out, and the flesh cut into slices, 
the skin being removed and the side next the core 
trimmed smooth. 

The slices are placed overnight in water contain- 
ing 50 per cent, of vinegar, which makes the flesh 
contract. Next day the melons are heated to boil- 
ing with the same water in large pans, then covered 
up and left to draw. When all the slices are clear 
and properly softened, they are cooled down, the 
rear sides are pricked with needles, and the slices 
laid in cold 29 sugar, concentrated next day to 
22", and finally to 25, the fruit being then heated 
with the sugar. When cold, it is bottled with fresh 
sugar. 

Apples. 

Apples are rarely used in the form of compote, be- 
ing generally stored in jars for subsequent mixing. 

Only a few of the better sorts of apples are 
suitable Fur compote, and these are lilanched (with 
an addition of neutialin), steeped overnight in 18 
sugar, and packed next day with 22 ' sugar. They 
are peeled in a machine, cut into lialves, and the 
cores removed. 



PRESERVED FRUITS 21 

Apples for storage in jars are treated with 30" 
sugar solution, and after being cooled in water, 
are placed in the jars at once, sugar being added, 
and the whole sterilised for -h an hour on the 
water-bath. 



Genoa Oranges, Qreen and Yellow. 

The peeled fruit, bought in a pickled condition, 
is moistened and then blanched in a bright copper 
pan with plenty of soft water. The green fruit 
takes '21 hours, the yellow 2 hours. 

After cooling in plenty of running water, the 
fruit is pricked and placed in an 18 sugar solution, 
which is concentrated next day to 21, and after- 
wards to 24, at which stage the fruit is heated with 
the sugar. The concentration is increased to 26, 
and next day to 28, the fruit being heated this 
time also. When cold it is packed with fresh sugar. 

The yellow oranges may also be coloured red by 
staining the first sugar with fruit-red. 

Chestnuts. 

The large Italian or French chestnuts are used, 
these being shelled, and steeped overnight in water 
containing neutralin. 

Next day the chestnuts are placed in shallow 
wicker baskets, which are laid on a lath grating in 
a suitable pan, the grating being weighted down 
with stones. A few pounds of flour, stirred to a 
pap with water, are added to the blanching water. 



22 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The water is slowly raised to boiling, and left to 
draw for an hour. Meanwhile a solution of sugar 
(18) is prepared and placed in a shallow copper or 
enamelled pan, the peeled chestnuts being added. 
(Enough hands should 1)6 employed to get through 
the peeling quickly.) Half a stick of vanilla is 
placed in each pan, and the sugar is concentrated 
by heating the pans on the water-bath. Next day 
the chestnuts may be packed, fresh vanilla sugar 
of 25 density being used. 

Angelica. 

The roots are sorted into thick, medium, and thin, 
the latter being bottled, whilst the thicker kinds are 
preserved in thick sugar as garnishing fruit. 

The roots are slowly blanched in a copper 
pan, about 1 i hours being required. Just before the 
finish, a little copper sulphate is added to give 
the fine, bright colour. Then water, and treat 
in shallow pans like other fruit. Angelica in 
thickened sugar must contain at least 50 of 
syrup to prevent it from drying and becoming 
candied. 

Mixed Fruit. 

The preparation of the several fruits has already 
been described ; but if a clear mixture be desired, 
no stained fruits must be used, since these always 
])art with some of the colouring matter. Stoned 
cherries, coloured with new-red, may, however, 
be used, provided they are boiled up again with 



PRESERVED FRUITS 23 

white sugar. Large wild roseberries are well 
adapted for mixtures. 

The various fruits are placed on suitable earthen- 
ware colanders, bottled, and covered with fresh 
sugar (25). 

Mixed fruits in arrack, cherry cordial, rum, etc., 
are prepared in the same way, the added sugar being 
mixed with 50 per cent, of the corresponding spirit. 
These preparations must not be heated after the 
bottles have been closed, but it will be sufficient to 
make the open bottles fairly hot, and then put the 
stoppers in. 

Pineapple. 

The usual way to bottle this fruit is to take one- 
third of hothouse pineapples and two-thirds of the 
West Indian fruit. The pineapples are quartered, 
and then cut in thin slices with a sharp knife. 
Each pound of slices requires 3 lb. of refined sugar 
carefully boiled to 32 density, the fruit being 
added and boiled up once, after which it is taken 
out and cooled. Next day the sugar is poured 
away, concentrated to 30, strained, returned to 
the fruit, and the whole boiled up again. When 
cold, the fruit and sugar are bottled, and heated on 
the water-bath. 

Plums in Vinegar. 

The best way to prepare these for compote is to 
store the plums in sugar in gallon jars, as already 
described under plums. 



24 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

For use, the plums are bottled, aromatic vinegar 
is poured in, and the whole heated as usual. The 
aromatic \-inegar is prepared Ijy setting 10 gallons 
of wine vinegar in a warm place, with 1 lb. of 
whole cinnamon, 1 lb. of pimento, and 1 lb. of 
cloves, for a month, and then pouring off and filter- 
ins; the vinegar. 



Cherries in Vinegar. 

Prepared from preser^'ed clierries in the same 
wa}' as described for plums. 



CANNED FRUIT. 

Canned fruits are mostly blanched beforehand, 
though some kinds are packed raw. In the latter 
case, however, the fruit must be carefully washed 
to remove, not merely the dirt, but also any 
adherent fermentative organisms. Tor the same 
reason it is also essential to sterilise the raw fruit 
at a higher temperature, preferably in an autoclave. 

On the other hand, fruit that has been blanched 
in water can be sufficiently sterilised on an open 
water-bath. The strength of sugar solution to be 
added varies with the kind of fruit, particulars 
being given in each of the following cases. 

Gooseberries. 

The gooseberries are blanched, as already de- 
scribed, well cooled, placed in tins, and covered with 
22 sugar. The time required for sterilising 1 i- 
pint tius is 20 minutes on the water-bath. 

Strawberries, Uncooked. 

The berries are picked to remove the stalks and 
all damaged specimens, then washed, and drained 
on hair sieves. They are next packed in the tins 



26 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

and covered with dark, red-stained sugar (28). 
Sterilising is done in the autoclave, 10 minutes at 
220" r. being sufScient for 1| pint tins. 

Currants. 

The carefully picked berries are lightly washed, 
warmed over a fire (but not boiled) in a shallow 
pan with 28 sugar, and packed into tins when 
cooled. Sterilise Ih pint tins on a water-l.>ath for 
20 minutes. 

Dark Cherries with the Stones in. 

The picked cherries are heated in plenty of 
water until the stones are somewhat loosened, 
though the fruit should not l^urst. They are then 
quickly transferred to sieves, placed warm in the 
tins, and covered with 20 sugar. Sterilise on 
the water-bath as already mentioned. 

Light Cherries with the Stones in. 

The cherries must first be stained a uniform 
colour, the best dye being new-red. The cherries 
are heated slowly in the dissolved dye, and when 
the desired depth of colour is attained, are treated 
in the same way as dark cherries. 

Stoned Cherries. 

The cherries are stoned, then lightly l^lanched 
in a 10 solution of sugar, after which they are 



CANNED FRUIT 27 

laid in fresh sugar (density 20), and when 
cold are placed in the tins, juice and all. Sterilise 
as above. 



Mahaleb or Scented Cherries. 

When tinned with the stones in, these cherries are 
blanched in water, the same as other cherries, the 
stoned fruit being blanched in dilute sugar. The 
sugar is stained a handsome red, and the tinned 
fruit is sterilised for 20 minutes on the water- 
bath. 

Pears, Whole or in Halves. 

The peeled and cored pears are blanched with a 
little neutralin, well cooled, packed in tins, and 
covered with 28 sugar. SteriUse 1^ pint tins 
for 20 minutes on the water-bath. 



Apricots, cut into Halves. 

Fine apricots of uniform ripeness are carefull}' 
wiped clean with cloths, cut into halves, and the 
stones removed. They are then laid closely 
together in the tins, without pressing, a few 
shelled kernels being placed on top, and covered 
with 30 sugar solution. 

Sterilisation is performed in the autoclave for 
8 minutes at 220 F., and the tins are cooled at 
once with plenty of running water to prevent 
bulging. The pouring in of the sugar must be 
quickly followed by the sterilising. 



28 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Apricots, Whole Fruit. 

Fiuit of uniform ripeness is freed from stalks, 
pricked with needles, and placed in dishes, being 
then partly blanched with hot water containing 
neutralin. It is then placed in the tins, covered 
with 28 sugar, and sterilised in the autoclave for 
8 minutes at 220 F., or for 25 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Skinned Apricots. 

The fruit for this purpose should he semi-ripe, 
but already yellow, so that it can be skinned by 
hand, either the whole fruit or when cut into 
halves. It is then carefully blanched, cooled, and 
placed in the tins, where it is covered with 25 
sugar, and the tins are boiled for 2 minutes on the 
water-bath. 

Whole fruit, in a suitable stage of ripeness, may 
also be skinned in the machine. 



Small Yellow (Mirabelle) Plums. 

If the fruit be yellow, but still hard, it is pre- 
ferably pricked with needles, and heated in water 
until the skin easily cracks and the fruit rises to 
the top. It is then placed in the tins and 
covered with 28 sugar. 

When riper fruit is taken it is packed raw, 
being first pricked, then washed thoroughly in cold 
water and dried with a cloth. The sugar in this 
case is of only 24 density, and sterilising is 



CANNED FRUIT 29 

performed in the autoclave for 10 minutes at 
230 F. When iinished, cool with plenty of 
running water until the lids are tight. 

When the plums have been blanched before- 
hand, sterilising for 20 minutes on the water- 
bath will be sufficient. 



Greengages. 

The fruit is Ijlanched as for bottling, but not 
quite so soft, then well watered, packed, covered 
with 25* sugar, and sterilised for 20 minutes on 
the water-bath. 



Peaches, Whole or Halved. 

The right sort to use is that in which the stones 
do not loosen. The fruit is blanched in water 
with a little neutralin, cooled, packed in the tins, 
and covered with 25 sugar, being then sterilised 
on the water-bath for 20 minutes. 



Late Plums, Unstoned. 

When the plums have been pricked in a 
machine, they are placed in a large quantity of 
water, in portions, quickly heated to boiling, and 
cooled at once before they burst. Next they are 
placed in the tins and covered with 24 sugar that 
has been stained a light red. Thinner sugar may 
also be used. 

The best method, of sterilising is for 10 minutes 



30 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

at 230 F., followed by a thorough cooling. This 
treatment is essential to destroy the fermentative 
organisms and to prevent bulging tins. The fruit 
may also be tinned in an uncooked condition, but 
in such case must be brought direct from the tree 
to the works, and packed without delay. 

Preserved Rhubarb. 

All thick early sorts are suitable, the sticks 
Ijeing skinned, cut into lengths of about 2 inches, 
placed in earthenware dishes, strewn with plenty 
of sugar, and left overnight. Next day the whole 
is carefully heated, and the sticks placed in tins 
after cooling. The juice is concentrated to 20, a 
little finely pared lemon peel being added and 
poured over the sticks, the whole being sterilised 
on the water-bath. Twenty minutes is enough for 
li pint tins. 

Bilberries, 

The berries are carefully selected, washed, and 
put into the tins, where a 2830 sugar solution is 
])oured over tliem. Sugar that has already been 
used ma}- be employed. Sterilise in the autoclave 
for 10 minutes at 2.']0" F. 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS. 

The sugar used for preparing these preserves 
must indicate 38 by the saccharometer, in the 
finished condition, this being, moreover, the highest 
density that can be accurately measured. 

Well-prepared syrup fruit should Iveep well 
for a year or more if stored in a cool place ; but 
the preparation entails considerable experience in 
order to turn out a really perfect article. 

Of course the quality and ripeness of the 
raw fruit has an important influence on the 
result. 

Some kinds require to be sulphured in order to 
obtain a fine, pale colour, e.g. apricots, cherries, and 
pears in particular. 

Blanching requires considerable care, each fruit 
needing to be blanched quite soft, to enable the 
sugar to penetrate easily and the fruit to retain its 
form intact. The treatment with sugar is the 
same as for bottled fruit, the 28 syrup being 
concentrated the next day to 32, the fruit being 
heated up with it and then left to stand for 2 days. 
Then begins the treatment with strong syrup, the 
quantity used being about one-third that of the 
sugar juice. Almonds and pears rich in sugar 



32 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

need rather more, in order to prevent 
crystallisation. 

The sugar is concentrated to 35 by heating it 
over a coke fire, in small portions at a time, without 
any addition of sugar ; and the syrup and fruit are 
added and boiled up together. Next day it is 
concentrated to 38, more syrup being added, and 
the fruit heated up with it again. Wliilst still 
hot, the mass is placed in dry jars or basins, 
covered with paper soaked in spirit, and tied up. 

In all works of any size a room will be set apart 
for sulphuring, situated near a chimney or air 
shaft, and fitted with tightly closing doors. A trap 
door is provided between the room and the 
chimney for the escape of the vapours when the 
sulphuring is over. 

The fruit to be sulphured is laid on wooden 
trays with lath bottoms, measuring about 40 by 20 
inches, and placed one above another so as to leave 
a space of about an inch Ijetween. Wire is quite 
unsuitable. The fruit spread out in this manner 
(apricots in single layers) is placed in the room 
overnight, and the sulphur ignited. Apricots are 
incised at the tip with a knife, or the stone 
loosened a little 1j}' inserting a wire at the seat of 
the stalk. About 2 lb. of flowors of sulphur are 
placed in an iron vessel, mounted for safety on an 
iron or earthenwiire plate, the sulphur being ignited 
with a few lumps of glowing coke so as t<i set the 
whole mass on fire. 

Next morning the vapours are allowed to escape, 
and the fruit is taken out and laid in water : 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 33 

apricots in small vessels, cherries and pears in large 
tubs. 

A point to be leniembered is that sulphured 
fruit must never be packed in tins. Consequently 
also all soft fruits, obtained by blanching, for 
marmalades, must be packed in glass vessels, since 
they would turn black and spoil in tins. 

Sulphured pears remain unaltered by paring, 
and cherries on stoning ; which is a great ad- 
vantage. Sulphured apricots never give rise to the 
objectionable brown specks in the sugar that are 
found in the case of unsulphured fruit, the colour 
remaining uniformly pale. Sulphured cherries take 
the red stain evenly, which never happens when 
sulphuring is oinitted. New-red, however, is the 
only suitable dye, none of the others acting direct. 
Pears also should be coloured with this dye. 

The light red mahaleb cherries are also sulphured 
and boiled for preserving in this manner, sulphuring 
being the only way to make them retain their 
plump, rounded shape. 

Glazing Fruit. 

The preparation of shiny, dry fruit, entails 
considerable experience and particular care in 
boiling the various kinds of fruit. 

The sugar syrup must not be lower than 
36 density, and the fruit in all cases must 
be left in this syrup for a month at least. If the 
concentration of the syrup recedes during the 
process, it must be restored to the proper strength. 
3 



34 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

For glazing, the fruit is first drained on a copper 
strainer, then boiled up again, in small quantities 
at a time, in a fresh 36 solution of sugar, 
the same sugar being used in each case. The fruit 
is taken out with large wire spoons, and placed to 
drain in wicker baskets. When enough has been 
prepared, glazing may be commenced. 

For this purpose a 32 solution of (prefer- 
ably refined) sugar is prepared, and about 2 J gallons 
of this are placed in the glazing pan, for treating 
11-12 lb. of fruit. 

The sugar is boiled over a bright coke fire, the 
edges being washed clean, until a crust forms, 
2 tablespoons of syrup being added. When the 
sugar is of the proper strength, the fruit is added, 
and the whole allowed to boil up, the pan being 
then taken off the fire and left for several minutes. 

Owing to the strength of the sugar, only a small 
portion can be worked at a time, a portion of the 
fruit being collected on one side of the pan by 
means of a light, flat, perforated copper spoon, 
about 8 inches long and 6 inches broad, with a 
suitable handle, and the sugar worked with a small 
spattle, the fruit being then laid on a wire grating 
for the surplus sugar to drain into a vessel under- 
neath. This operation is repeated with fresh 
portions of fruit until the whole has been dealt 
with. 

It is impossible for the operator to work fast 
enough to treat the whole at once. The necessary 
skill can be acquired in a few days, and 23 girls 
are required for each pan, the fruit being taken by 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 35 

means of flexible wire tongs and laid so that each 
fruit is separate from the rest. 

The only way to obtain a shiny and durable 
glazing is by using strong sugar. 

When the fruit on the gratings is cold, it is 
transferred on to suitable trays, and can be packed 
after a short interval. 



Candied Fruit. 

To prepare candied fruit, a number of shallow 
candy pans are required and suitable wire gauze or 
perforated sheet metal, to be placed one at the 
bottom and the other on top. Large fruit is 
arranged in a single layer, but smaller fruit, like 
cherries, in two to three layers. 

When the fruit has drained it is washed in a 
fresh sugar solution (30) by the aid of heat, 
and laid on wooden trays or wire gratings in the 
warm drying-room. Next day it is turned over, so 
that both sides can get dry. When properly dry, 
which condition will be reached after 2 days, the 
fruit is candied. 

A suitable quantity of sugar is dissolved in the 
requisite amount of water, raised to boiling, and 
then gradually diluted to 28, with frequent 
skimming, after which it is concentrated to 
34341, according as large or small crystals are 
desired. The finished candy is transferred to a 
suitable pan and set on one side. It is important 
that the finished sugar should be poured over the 
fruit 3 hours later, before it has cooled so far that 



36 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

a solid crust is formed. Thus, if the candy is 
finished at 4 o'clock, it must be poured about 7. 
The candy pans are left (jvernight in the warm 
dryins-rooui and emptied next morning. 

Blue Plums. 

This highly appreciated preserve can be easily 
made on a large scale, especially when a cheap 
supply of plums is availal.)le, any good sort being 
suitable. 

The fruit should be at such a stage of ripeness 
that, while the flesh is still firm, the skin has begun 
to wrinkle near the stalk. It is better to be over- 
ripe than the reverse. The stones are extracted 
by a wire instrument, inserted at the stalk end and 
pushing the stone out through the tip, the fruit 
being meanwhile held firmly in the left hand to 
prevent bursting. When the quantity is small the 
plums are laid in a fiat pan, hot, previously used 
sugar (24) being poured in, and pounded sugar 
strewn over the top. The pans are left in the 
drying-room until the next day, the fruit parting 
with its juice and absorbing sugar. Next day boil 
over a fire, with frequent shaking, and skim. 
When cold proceed with concentration, by stages of 
4, without adding syrup, fruit syrup being generally 
used with this fruit. 

Large parcels are treated as follows : The 
stoned })lums are placed in large tiibs or pans, 
covered with a wooden grating, and weighted with 
a stone. TJoiling fruit sugar (24) is then poured 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 37 

over, and the whole left to stand. Next day the 
fruit is transferred to small pans, the sugar juice 
being concentrated to 28 and poured hot over the 
fruit. After a few hours the fruit and sugar are 
boiled together and left to cool. On the third day 
the sugar is concentrated to 34, and on the fourth 
day to 38, the whole when cold being stored in 
large casks in a cool place. 

In the finishing process the plums are well 
drained, the small ones being used for stuffing, by 
the aid of a suitable piece of wood. The plums being 
laid on a suitable wire grating are dipped carefully 
five to six times in water that is just boiling, in 
order to wash off the adherent syrup. The residual 
drops of water are blown off by means of a bellows, 
and the grating is taken into the drying-room, 
which must not be hotter than 85 F. After 
2436 hours the plums will have acquired the 
desired bluish " bloom," and are then ready for 
packing. If the temperature of the drying-room is 
higher the syrup sweats out of the plums, and the 
latter do not turn blue ; the defect, however, can 
be remedied by rewashing. 

Qlazed Chestnuts. 

The ]jreparation of this article entails great care 
and long experience to turn out a fine, light- 
coloured, aud tender fruit. The best chestnuts to 
use are the large Italian or French kinds, rather 
flat than round. After removing the brown outer 
shell the chestnuts are laid on sulphuring trays 



38 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

and sulphured for 2 hours, after which they are 
placed until the next day in fresh water, which is 
renewed several times. 

Blanching is performed in small, shallow wicker 
baskets, made of peeled withes, and capable of 
holding 5-7 lb. of chestnuts. These baskets are 
laid on a wooden grating in a large shallow pan, 
the intermediate spaces being weighted with stones. 
The grating, however, must be merely pegged, and 
not nailed, contact with iron spoiling the colour of 
the fruit. Moreover, all the vessels used should be 
of copper or enamel. 

Three measures of wheaten Hour are stirred to a 
pap with 150 of water, and sufficient of this 
mixture is poured over the chestnuts to cover 
them. The water is gradually raised to the boil, or 
rather to 194 F., which temperature should not be 
exceeded, and kept thereat for 2 hours, with 
frequent skimming, and replacing the water lost by 
evaporation. The whole time of heating should be 
at least 3 hours, preferably longer ; but a little 
experience will soon teach what is the correct 
period. As soon as the chestnuts are found to be 
soft enough, the basket is taken out and placed in 
hot water, this being essential for skinning. The 
skinned nuts are ])lace(l in a shallow pan containing 
sugar solution (ITi ) and inilla. 

A\nien a few pans are leaily, the sugar is con- 
rnntrated, preferably on a liir^e water-bath holding pix 
to eight pans, and heated by steam. The water being 
kept on the boil, the operation will be completed in 
half a day, the loss by evaporation being replaced 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 39 

all the time by sugar solution. Next day this 
sugar, which has turned a dark colour, is poured 
off, and fresh 32 sugar, containing one-third of 
syrup, is added. On the third day the chestnuts 
are either placed in gallon storage jars and covered 
with 32 syrup, or else are bottled direct. How- 
ever, to avoid risk of breakage, it is preferable to 
defer the bottling until the chestnuts have stood 
for some time in syrup, and to preserve a stock for 
the following season, so as to begin with a good 
article. 

The glazing is performed in the same manner 
as with other fruits, but in smaller quantities at 
a time, vanilla being added to the glaze. 

Qlazed Pineapple Slices. 

Since these should be of a fine pale yellow 
colour, the fruit must not be boiled much with the 
sugar. Tinned pineapple is cut into slices, with 
a sharp, thin-bladed knife, on a suitable board, 
fitted with a i-inch guide strip on right and left, 
the slices being boiled IJ hours with pure water 
in a bright copper pan. Meanwhile best refined 
sugar is dissolved to a 20 solution, in which, whilst 
still hot, the hot boiled slices are laid and covered 
up with paper. At the start a comparatively small 
amount of sugar is used so that the slices will not 
float, since in these circumstances they will absorb 
the sugar better. 

Next day the slices are arranged in a circle, tlie 
sugar being concentrated to 24 and poured over 



40 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

them hot. The next time the concentration is 
increased to 28" with added sugar; then to 32, 
each time being poured hot over the fruit ; and 
finally to 36, with addition of a little syrup, the 
slices being carefully heated up with the sugar, and 
then turned into flat pans to cool before being put 
into the jars. The glazing is performed in the 
manner already described, except that in this case 
the slices are merely drained. Pineapple cubes, 
or " chunks," are treated in just the same way ; 
the commercial " sticks " are best for this purpose, 
being almost completely free from " eyes." 

Crystallised Strawberries. 

Firm-fleshed strawberries of medium size are 
boiled as described under strawberries, and allowed 
to drain on a sieve in the drying-room. The still 
moist fruit is then rolled in fine, red-stained crystal 
sugar, then laid singly on boards covered to a depth 
of ^ an inch with the same sugar, and put in the 
drying-room. Next day they are turned ovei', 
worked a little, and left to dry for another day, 
whereupon they are ready for packing. 

Mustarda. 

There are twn (/lasses of this preserve, one 
sweeter tlian the otlier. Tlie former is prepared 
from sweetened fruit, the other from stewed fruit. 

The sweet kind will keep unaltered for a con- 
siderable time, even in open jars ; but the other 



GLAZED AND CANDIED FRUITS 41 

must be sterilised on the water-bath, and is always 
sold in tins. 

The various fruits are packed as for mixed fruit, 
and the mixture is covered with a mustard sauce, 
prepared as follows: 481 lb. of brown mustard are 
ground three times, and stirred up with 9f gallons 
of white wine, 1 lb. of salt, and J lb. of ground 
capsicum. This mixture is left to stand all night 
and put through the machine next day ; then mixed 
with 17^ gallons of boiling hot 28 sugar, the whole 
being stirred and afterwards skimmed. This mixture 
will keep for a long time, but should be boiled up 
again before use. 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES. 

The preparation of genuine marmalades and juices 
alone is dealt with in this section, no mention being 
made of those fortified with gelatine, agar-agar, etc. 
Of course, as in all large works, the various fruit 
pulps are stored in jars or bottles, and only used 
when the marmalade is to be sent out. 

This method offers many advantages. In the 
first place the sugar is not worked up until the 
marmalade is to be sent out, thus saving a good 
deal of expense ; and furthermore, all kinds of pulp 
are ready in autumn for the preparation of the 
various mixtures required. 

It should also be mentioned that fruit pulp will 
keep best when poured boiling hot into glass jars 
that have been rinsed out with boiling water, the 
jars being filled to the top and closed at once. 
Sterilising in tins alters the colour, and cannot be 
practised for any lievry fruit, the tin spoiling the 
colour. 

Lower grade fruit pulp, and also apricot pulp  
la,i-ge quantities of which should be slocked  may, 
liiiwever, be stored in tins liolding up to \ cwt., in 
the following manner :  

The tins, which are soldered tojj and bottom. 



44 



THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 



have a 2 -inch hole in the lid, and are stood in a 
vessel of boiling water. When the fruit pulp is 
boiling hot the tins are taken out in succession 
and filled up to the top, the lids being soldered on 
at once. This done, the tins are stood on their 
heads, so that the small amount of imprisoned 
air is compelled to rise through the boiling hot 
pulp, and is thus rendered innocuous. This 
method is perfectly reliable, and enables large 
quantities of pulp to be got ready for storage 
in a short time. 




Fig. 4. 

The pulp may be put through a hand mill, or 
through one of larger size, operated by power, 
similar to that illustrated in Fig. 3. 

At the present time it is the practice to use a 
larger quantity of sugar than formerly  the average 
then lieiug uidy two-thirds to tliree-fourths per lb.  
in order to i.ibtain transparent luariualades of good 
keeping prdperties. The Eui;lish practice in jam- 
making is to use equal weights of sugar and fruit, 
this developing the flavour of the fruit better ; and 
the fruit is not pulped so fine as on the Continent, 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 45 

being preferably torn so that the flesh is more 
apparent, and imparts a characteristic appearance. 
In the case of plums, peaches, apricots, etc., a few 
stones are left in the mass to improve the fineness 
of flavour. 

In the following description of the various 
marmalades it is assumed that the fruit is steamed 
in pans holding about f owt. (Fig. 4), this en- 
abling the steaming to be reduced to about 1520 
minutes  an important point in the preparation of 
pale marmalades. 

Experience alone will teach when the fruit is 
done ; and in case of uncertainty a few samples 
should be taken and spread on a plate to cool. 
The finished marmalade should be cooled by stirring 
in shallow pans, so as to prevent scorching ; but it 
must be filled into the pots whilst still hot. 

Strawberry Marmalade. 

Strawberry pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
sugar, 3 parts. 

Raspberry Marmalade. 

Easpberry pulp, 2 parts ; currant pulp, 1 part ; 
apple pulp, 1 part ; sugai', 4 parts. 

Currant Marmalade. 

Currant pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 
?> parts. 



46 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Scented Cherry Marmalade. 

Scented clievry pulp, 2 paitK ; npple pulp, 1 pait ; 
currant pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 4 ])arts. 

Cherry Marmalade. 

Cherry pulp, 2 parts ; ajDple pulp, 1 part ; sugar, 
3 parts. 

Qreengage Marmalade. 

Greengage pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulp, 1 part ; 
sugar, 3 parts. 

Late Plum Marmalade. 

Plum pulp, 3 parts ; sugar, 3 parts. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Peach pulp, 2 parts ; apple pulji, 1 part ; sugar, 
3 parts. 

Roseberry Marmalade. 

Pioselierry pulp, 2 parts; apple pulp, 1 part; 
sugar, 3 ])ai'ts. 

Apricot Marmalade (Best). 

Apricot pulp, 3 parts ; sugar, 3 parts. The 
sugar is boiled separately until it liegins to ball, 
and therr mixed with the pulp and boiled to a 
finish. 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 47 

Apricot Marmalade (Second Quality). 

Ayiicot pulp, 3 pa.iis ; apple palp, 1 pari ; sugar 
4 parts. 

Steeped Plums. 

One hundred parts of stoned, ripe late plums are 
mixed with fruit sugar drained from thickened sugar 
preserves, and boiled to proper consistency with a 
little whole cinnamon and a few cloves. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Apple pulp, 2 parts ; sugar, 1 part. 

English Orange Marmalade. 

Bitter oranges are used. The fruit is cut into 
halves, without injuring the core, thrown into 
boiling water, a few at a time, boiled for several 
minutes, and then quickly cooled, whereupon the 
flesh can be easily squeezed away from the rind. 

The flesh is heated to boiling with a sufficient 
quantity of water and pulped in a mill, the rind 
being quartered and cut into thin slices in a special 
machine. The slices are blanched until soft, and 
laid aside in a sieve. Next, 3 parts of the pulp 
and 1 of the slices are weighed out and mixed ; 
and in the meantime 54 parts of refined sugar and 
6 of syrup are dissolved and heated till they ball, 
whereupon the pulp and rind are added and the 
whole boiled to a finish. 



48 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The marmalade should have a golden yellow 
colour and be perfectly clear, and is left in the 
natural condition. It is filled hot into the pots 
and fastened down when cold. 

Another kind can be made by adding a quantity 
of apple pulp equal to that of the orange rind 
taken. 

Tomato Marmalade. 

Six parts by weight of ripe fruit are thrown into 
hot water, taken out again quickly and cooled, the 
skins being then easily peeled off. The fruit is 
next cut into halves, and the seeds carefully 
extracted with a suitable instrument. Four parts 
of sugar are dissolved in a little water, mixed with 
the fruit, a piece of vanilla, and fresh lemon peel, 
and boiled with constant stirring till the mass sets 
to a jelly. The flavouring ingredients are then 
taken out. This preserve is held in great favour in 
Upper Italy. 

Apricot Jam. 

Good ripe fruit is stoned, and boiled with a little 
water, but not pulped. Equal parts of the fruit 
and water are boiled to the right consistency, and 
a few apricot kernels, previously scalded and skinned, 
are added to the mass. 



Gooseberry Jam. 

Nearly ripe, but still hard, gooseberries are cut 
off at the tips, boiled in a little water and put 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 49 

through the pulper. The pulp ia mixed with its 
own weight of chopped berries and boiled with an 
equal amount of sugar. The jam is stained a light 
red. 

Red Currant Jam. 

The fruit is divided into two halves, one being 
boiled with a little water and pulped, the other 
washed and added. The mixture is boiled to a 
finish with its own weight of sugar, which has been 
boiled to balling point. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Presh garden raspberries are divided into two 
halves, the one being pulped, and the other merely 
crushed. Two parts of this mixture are added to 
one of red currant pulp, and boiled to a finish with 
an equal weight of sugar. 

Strawberry Jam. 

In making this jam, one-third of pulped goose- 
berries is added, the agreeably acid flavour of the 
latter developing the taste of the strawberries. The 
latter are merely crushed, added to the gooseberry 
pulp, and the whole boiled with an equal weight 
of sugar. 

Cherry Jam. 

Sweet dark cherries are stoned in a special 
machine, no damage being done if the fruit is 
4 



50 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

torn more than is usually desirable in stoning. 
Meanwhile twice the quantity of whole cherries 
are boiled with a little water and put through 
a coarse pulper (Fig. 5), the sieve of which 
has a mesh just fine enough to keep back the 
stones. 

The pulp is then mixed with the stoned cherries, 
and boiled with a quantity of sugar equal to the 
weight of the fruit. 

Morella Cherry Jam. 

Both the early and late kinds are suitable ; and 
the method of preparation and quantity of sugar 
are the same as for cherry jam. Care must, how- 
ever, be taken to boil all the prepared fruit the 
same da}', this being the only way to obtain a jam 
that will jelly properly and have a fine flavour. 

Bilberry Jam. 

The berries are picked over, washed clean, 

and crushed. The fruit is Ijoiled with half its 

weight of water until the proper consistency is 
reached. 

Blackberry Jam. 

The blackberries are picked over, washed and 
crushed, after wliich they are mixed with one-third 
of gooseljeny pulp, and boiled to a finish with an 
amount of sugar cipial to the whole weight of 
fruit. 



52 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Strawberry and Gooseberry Jam. 

This mixture has an excellent flavour, and is 
prepared from equal parts of the two fruits. One 
half of the gooseberries are pulped, the other 
chopped, and the strawberries merely crushed. 
Equal parts of sugar and fruit are used. 

Plum Jam. 

Good ripe late plums are freed from stalks and 
pulped in the coarse pulper after lieing heated to 
boiling with a little water. One-third of the whole, 
however, is merely stoned, leaving the skins on. 
A few of the kernels are added  enough to make 
three to four in each pound pot. These kernels impart 
the agreeable flavour of bitter almonds to the jam. 
The proportion of sugar is the same as in other 
jams, namely, equal to that of the fruit. 

Raspberry and Red Currant Jam. 

This tasty mixture is prepared from equal quantities 
of the two fruits, the currants being left whole and 
the raspberries crushed. To prevent an excess of 
pips half of each quantity is pulped and sifted. 
Equal parts of fruit and sugar are mixed, and 
boiled quickly to a finish after all is dissolved. 

Pineapple Jam. 

With this jam an addition of the finest apple 
pulp is essential to prevent it getting tough, and to 



MARMALADES, JAMS, AND FRUIT JUICES 53 

increase the binding effect. Fresh pineapples are 
most suitable, but a portion may also be replaced 
by the tinned fruit. 

The skin and e}'us are removed and the fruit 
sliced, and afterwards passed through the coarse 
sieve of a meat-chopping macliine. The resulting 
pulp is mixed with an e({ual weight of sugar, and 
boiled down sufficiently, with stirring. One part 
of best white apple pulp, from sourish apples, is 
taken to three of pineapple pulp. 

Meanwhile the apple pulp, which contains the 
juice, is boiled with two-thirds of its weight of 
sugar until it jellies, and this is stirred into the 
pineapple pulp, the whole being then put into 
the pots. 

Five to ten per cent, of syrup may be added if 
considered advisable, but the jam will keep good 
for years, without crystallising, provided the work 
has been carefully done and the sugar dissolved 
slowly, the latter being preferably boiled by itself 
beforehand. 



FRUIT JELLIES. 

The only kinds of jelly that will be described here 
are those made from the natiD-al juices of fruit and 
sugar. 

The preparation of the fruit juices is an import- 
ant preliminary, and their storage in jars. Apples 
and quinces are cut into six to eight pieces, without 
peeling, and placed in a pan with just enough 
water to co^'er the fruit. They are gradually 
raised to the boil without stirring, and are left to 
draw, covered up, until the slices are sufficiently 
soft, whereupon they are transferred to a hair 
sieve to allow the juice to drain. The juice is 
placed in deep vessels overnight, and is next day 
carefully decanted from the sediment, heated to 
boiling and poured hot into glass jars, which are 
tlien covered up at once. 

Berries, such as currants, raspberries, strawberries, 
cranberries, and blackberries, are also boiled with a 
small quantity of water in bright copper pans, trans- 
ferred to sieves, and the juice sterilised as above. 

The residue of the fruit may be pulped in the 
machine and used for mixed marmalade or jam. 
An addition of good apple juice is advisable in 
all fruit jellies, but should be prepared from good 



FRUIT JELLIES 55 

apples with an acid flavour. To obtain a clear 
juice without filtering, the following method can be 
employed :  

The juice, carefully freed froui the sediment, is 
mixed with half its weight of best sugar, slowly 
heated to boiling, skimmed and filtered through 
a flannel bag, so as to keep back the particles 
of dirt present in the sugar. The filtered juice is 
quickly boiled up again, and as soon as a sample 
shows that the jellying stage is reached, is rapidly 
cooled with cold water, the steam being turned off 
and the juice skimmed. This operation is once 
or twice repeated, and as soon as a sample, placed 
in a glass, shows that the juice is clarified, boiling is 
continued to a finish, and the juice is put at once 
into the previously warmed glasses. The proper 
consistency is attained when the juice drops in 
patches from the upturned spoon, and when these 
patches, placed in a glass with cold water, fall to 
the bottom unchanged, without dissolving. The 
proper degree will be learned with a little practice. 
Should the jelly be boiled beyond this stage it will 
scorch and then refuse to set at all. 

Apple Jelly. 

Apple juice, 2 parts ; sugar, 1 part ; is usually 
left the natural colour, but may also be stained red. 

Quince Jelly. 

Quince juice, 2 parts ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1-|- parts. 



56 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Currant Jelly. 

CuiTant juice, 2 parts ; apple juice, 1 part ; sugar, 
li parts. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

Easpberry juice, 1 part ; currant juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Strawberry juice, 1 part ; currant juice, 1 part ; 
apple juice, 1 part ; sugar, 1^ parts. The juice left 
over in making wild-strawberry compote is highly 
suitable. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Cranberry juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Blackberry juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Apricot Jelly. 

Apricot juice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; 
sugar, 1 part. 

Peach Jelly. 

Peach ju.ice, 1 part ; apple juice, 1 part ; sugar, 1 
part. The sweet juice formed when the fruit is kept 
in storage jars can be advantageously worked up into 
peach and apricot jelly ; but in such case only 



FRUIT JELLIES 57 

25 per cent, of sugar should be used, instead 
of 50 per cent., the juice ah-eady containing 
sugar. Tlie added apple juice of course receives 
50 per cent, of sugar. 

Raspberry Juice. 

Fresh wild raspberries are mixed with 5 per 
cent, of sugar, and left to ferment in suitable 
vessels, tubs wider at the bottom than the top 
being the best. The contents are stirred several 
times a day. 

According to the temperature of the room, 
fermentation will be over in 6-8 days ; and the 
must has then to be pressed quickly to prevent the 
alcoholic fermentation from proceeding to acetic 
fermentation. 

The pressed juice must be heated to 175 F. in 
large copper pans, thus arresting fermentation, and 
the still hot juice filled into 10 gallon wickered 
flasks, closed by plugs of cotton wool steeped in 
sahcylic acid. Stored in a cool place, the juice 
will keep unaltered for a long time, and clarifies 
of itself. For use it is decanted carefully from 
the sediment. 

When the crude juice is stored in larger quantities 
it is treated with 15 per cent, of spirit, and placed 
in perfectly clean casks, which are kept full to the 
bung. In this case, however, the juice- loses its 
colour in time, which does not occur when kept 
in the flasks. 

To prepare raspberry syrup, 100 parts by weight 



58 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

of the crude juice are put into a suitable pan with 
180 parts of best sugar and slowly heated to 
lioiling, with stirring, the steam being turned off 
as soon as the juice begins to froth up. As soon 
as the froth has subsided it is removed, the edges 
wiped round, and the juice heated to boiling again, 
and skimmed. 

Tlie juice is next strained through flannel. It 
will measure 3031 on the saccharometer scale, 
and will keep for a long time. 

Strawberry Juice. 

The following method is adopted for obtaining 
an aromatic produ.ct :  

Small aromatic varieties, preferably mixed with one- 
third of wild strawberries are placed, with an equal 
weight of sugar, in suitable earthenware basins, and 
kept in a cool place, being repeatedly stirred. 

On the following day the whole mass is shaken 
out on to large cloths to enable the juice to drain 
away clear. This juice is then heated carefully to 
158 F., and poured, whilst hot, into larger or 
smaller glass jars, which are closed and sterilised 
for 2030 minutes on the water-bath. The residual 
strawberries are used up in making cheap jams. 

Cherry Juice. 

Cherries for juice-making must first be passed 
through a fruit mill with adjustable wooden or 
stone rollers, in order to crush the whole of the 



FRUIT JELLIES 59 

fruit. It is also advisable to crush a portion of the 
stones as well. 

The resulting pulp is left 24-36 houis in suitable 
tubs lief ore pressing. After pressing, the juice is 
left for awhile, then drawn off, treated with 16 per 
cent, of spirit, and placed in clean casks, which are 
kept full to the bung. 

Lemon Syrup. 

Sound ripe lemons are pressed, and the juice 
strained on a hair sieve ; then placed overnight in 
deep glass vessels, carefully poured into 10 gallon 
glass jars next day, heated on the water-bath, and 
closed up at once. 

To prepare syrup, 66 lb. of refined sugar are 
dissolved to a strong solution in water, mixed with 
10 gallons of lemon juice, and concentrated to 30. 
When the syrup has cooled down a little, some 
lemon spirit is added, this having been prepared 
by digesting finely pared lemon peel with fine spirit 
in a glass bottle for several days. 

Orange Syrup. 

The crude juice is prepared in the same manner 
as lemon juice. For making the syrup, 6 6 lb. of 
refined sugar are taken to 20 gallons of orange 
juice and a suitable quantity of water, the whole 
being dissolved and treated with li pints of lemon 
spirit. After concentrating to 30, orange spirit 
(prepared from finely pared orange peel) is added. 



6o THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Pineapple Juice. 

Hothouse ])ine:ipples are peeled, eul up fine, and 
heated to very near boiliii<j; in o'l" sugar (3 IIj. to 1 
lb. of jiineapple). After a sliort time the resulting 
syrup  which should measure 30  is strained 
through flannel and filled into bottles. 

The residual pineapple slices can be extracted 
for second-(|uality juice, or used wp in making 
pineapple marmalade. 



FRUIT PULP FOR ICES. 

Only the best and freshest fruit should be used 
iu making pulp for this purpose, and the heating 
process should be performed as quickly as possible. 

In the case of Ijerried fruits, fresh, thoroughly 
ripe berries should be pulped, mixed with 10 per 
cent, of refined sugar, raised to boiling-point, and 
immediately poured into bottles which are hermet- 
ically sealed and sterilised like bottled fruit. The 
bottles should have been rinsed out with nearly 
boiling water just before use. 

With a little experience on the part of the 
operator the sterilising process may be omitted, 
but everything must be boiling hot, and the closed 
bottles must be stood on their heads so as to compel 
the small amount of imprisoned air to rise through 
the boiling mass and thus be rendered harmless. 

For stone-fruit pulp, the fruit is heated to boiling 
with a little water, then pulped in the machine and 
packed as above. 

For pineapple pulp the fresh fruit is necessary. 
The fruit is peeled, the eyes removed, and the rest 
cut into chunks, which are put through the coarse 
plate of a mincing machine, then pulped fine, mixed 
with 1 per cent, of sugar, and packed as above. 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL. 

The citron tree is indigenous to Sicily, Corsica, 
and certain of the Grecian islands. 

Orange peel is made from the rind of the bitter 
orange, another kind being made from sweet oranges. 
The latter can be bought, ready separated from the 
flesh, in Trieste and Messina, whilst the latter ports, 
Genoa and Leghorn, are the chief centres of the 
citron trade. 

Both fruits are gathered in our autumn and 
winter seasons, citron peel being often ready for 
sending out in December, whilst orange rinds come 
on the market up to April. 

Citron peel is of two classes, according as it is 
separated from the flesh or not. The former kind 
is also known as table citron. 

The best, and usually dearest sort, comes from 
Corsica ; the Sicilian fruit is termed diamond citron ; 
and both these are used for preserving. 

To obtain a peel that is rich in sugar, tender and 
yet firm and transparent, it is necessary to follow 
the Italian practice of working with cold sugar, as 
described below. 

On opening the casks the brine is drawn off 
and replaced by fresh water, which is changed 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 63 

several times. On the following day the fruit 
is placed in bright copper pans with plenty of 
water, and raised to boiling. After 2 hours' con- 
tinuous boiling the fruit is sufficiently blanched, 
the proper stage being reached when the core 
loosens easily on the fruit being placed in cold 
water. 

The fruit is then placed in cold water and 
the cores extracted by women or girls, pre- 
ferably by hand. The cleaned fruit is left in 
cold water till the next day to draw out all 
the salt. 

A cool room, preferably a cellar, is best for pre- 
serving ; and it should be close to the boiling-house 
so that the sugar solution can be sent down through 
a sheet metal pipe, thus economising time and 
material. 

The preserving room is fitted with strong wooden 
chests measuring 60 by 28 by 24 inches, lined with 
tinned sheet copper and fitted with a draw-off cock 
at the bottom. These chests are mounted on a 
suitable foundation. 

One corner of each chest is fitted with a perforated 
metal pipe in which a pump, like those used for 
petroleum barrels, can be placed. 

The citron fruit is laid on edge in the chests, but 
not packed too tightly ; then covered with a grating 
of lath weighted with clean stones, and a cold 10 
sokition of sugar is poured in. Every day the weak 
sugar solution is pumped out and replaced by one 
5 stronger. 

The first sugar is usually allowed to run to 



64 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

waste, having extracted salt from the fruit and 
being poor in sugar. 

Of course the sugar solution removed by pumping 
is used over again ; but since a considerable surplus 
of sugar solution will accumulate in time it is 
advisible to regulate the work in such a manner 
that a fresh quantity of fruit is blanched every 
day, the weaker sugar solutions being used up for 
this purpose. 

As already mentioned, the sugar solution is 
run in cold, this being continued till the density 
reaches 35. Under this treatment a slight 
fermentation, revealed by the gradual ascent of 
bubbles of gas, begins when the density is about 
25 This fermentation is necessary to open 
the pores of the fruit and facilitate the penetra- 
tion of the sugar, this being the only way 
to obtain a product that will remain soft for 
any length of time. Should the fermentation 
be too powerful at 30, it is advisable to boil 
the fruit and sugar up together, return to the 
chest, and continue the treatment with hot 
sugar. The last two charges should contain 
one-third of syrup, so that the final sugar has the 
density 40. 

The fruit should remain in this sugar for at least 
6 weeks l>ef(ire it is glazed. 

For tlie glazing ])r()ccss the fruit is taken out of 
the sugar, boiled up with fresh oO sugar, and 
placed overnight in suitable vessels. Xext day it 
is laid on a grating and set in the drying-room 
for '1 days, the glazing being effected in the 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 65 

same manner as already described in the case of 
fruit. 

For table citron peel, the cored fruit is cooled, 
and peeled fairly thick by hand in cold water, and 
then treated as aliove. To obtain a brilliant white 
product it is advisable to sulphur the peeled fruit 
all night on w(joden racks, all contact with iron 
being carefully avoided. 

The peel may also Ije cut up into pieces the size 
of orange peel, or may be preserved whole and sold 
to gingerbread makers. 

Orange peel is always made by the hot process 
in small vessels holding about f 1 cwt. 

The peel is blanched for lJ-2 hours, then cooled 
and trimmed up to remove any residual flesh. 
This can be done before the peel is laid in the 
preserving vessel. 

The peel is arranged in circles, but not very 
tightly, so that the sugar can penetrate to all parts. 
The first sugar should have the density 1 5, the 
subsequent charges being 5 stronger every time. 
The fruit and sugar are finally Ijoiled up together, 
and when cold are laid in the storage boxes 
in rings. Glazing is performed in the same 
mariner as for citron, after the peel has been 
dried in the drying-room. 

Orange Peel. 

This peel is mostly to be bought with the flesh 
already removed, but can also be obtained with the 
flesh in, the oranges being merely halved. In this 

5 



66 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

condition about one-third will have to be allowed 
for waste. 

The fruit is drained, then rinsed with plenty of 
water to remove impurities and til ires, and blanched 
for '-i'-i]f liours in a liri^lit eoiiper pan. When 
cooled, it is placed in w(.)0(len tulis holding about 
2 cwt. each, and is co^-ered with hot 15 sugar and 
weighted down. Next day the sugar is run off and 
not used again, its place being taken by a hot 
20 solution, and the third day by one of 30 
strength. 

After another 24 hours the sugar drawn off is 
mixed with enough sugar to increase the strength 
to 35, this being added to the peel and well boiled 
up, so that the whole has a clear appearance. 

The cooled peel is drained, put into a storage 
cask, and coveied with the sugar, whicli has mean- 
while been concentrated to 38 

For glazing, the drained peel is Ijoiled in 36 
sugar and placed in suitable wicker baskets, being 
then glazed as already described for fruit. 

Candying is performed in the same manner 
as for candied fruit, i.e. as warm as possible, a 
certain amount of experience being necessary in 
order to obtain a product of good appearance 
and keeping properties. 

Neutralin. 

Eleven lb. of sodium sulphite are dissolved in 
3 1 gallons of hot water, and the solution is stored 
in glass bottles, 



CITRON PEEL AND ORANGE PEEL 67 

This sohition is the best adjunct to the blanch- 
ing water in the case of any fruit that is 
desiieil U> remain |ialo in culmiv. The quantity 
used is about one-tenth per cent, of the water 
employed. 



PART II. 

PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES. 

General Remarks. 

In addition to the provision of the raw materials, 
the water question plays an important part. 

As a rule, any tap  or other drinking water fit 
for that purpose, will also be suitable for preserving 
vegetables, provided it be free from any large 
quantity of iron and entirely free from ammonia. 
Traces of the latter are not prohibitory, and in all 
cases a trial should be made to see whether the 
water will really do, since the author has often 
found practice superior to theory in this connection. 

Owing to the large consumption of water at 
intervals during the vegetable season, it is advisable 
to provide a large tank, even where water is laid on, 
in order to have a sufficient supply. This tank 
may be of strong timber, lined with thin, tinned 
copper, and is mounted either in the boiling-house 
or near the cooler. The best situation is in the 
roof, where it is supported on iron girders let into 
the walls, or it may be placed in a room over the 
boiling-house. 

This tank, which is filled from the main, is 
fitted with a 1 -h inch draw-off pipe and tap leading 



72 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

to the cooler, so that plenty of water can be 
obtained at any time without delay. 

The blanched vegetables must in all cases be 
cooled with a large volume of water, renewed 
several times, in order to preserve the flavour. 
Rinsing and draining also remove the surplus copper 
when the vegetables have been coloured green. 

Special attention should also be bestowed on the 
cooling device. Formerly it was the custom to 
use zinc-lined wooden tanks, the cage containing 
the boiled vegetables being lowered into the tanks, 
and water admitted from below, so that the warm, 
dirty water ran off at the top. 

New coolers of special type have recently been 
introduced into French practice, the cooling water 
running in at one side and out at the other ; and 
this plan has been found to answer. The cooler, 
mounted on six strong iron feet, consists of a zinc- 
lined box, somewhat lower on the side at wliich the 
water enters than on the other, an overflow being 
provided on the latter so that the level of the 
water coincides exactly with the upper edge of the 
other side of the box. The appliance should he 
about 10 feet long by 3 feet wide, and placed in 
such a position that the waste water can run away 
easily into the drain. The blanched vegetables are 
placed in loose, inner boxes of tinned iron with 
perforated bottoms, the holes, howe^'er, being small 
enough to prevent the escape of even the smallest 
peas. Each cooler of the foregoing dimensions will 
take six loose boxes 3 feet long, 1 6 inches wide, and 
3;^ inches deep, provided with strong sheet -iron 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 73 

feet (six in number) at the corners and in the middle, 
so that the loose boxes are in contact with the 
cooling water on all sides. 

The cooling water entering on one side of the 
cooler comes in contact with the vegetables on its 
way to the overflow, and carries away all impurities. 
Owing to the way in which the vegetables to be 
cooled are spread out, any skins, threads, particles 
of wood, etc., are easily removed. 

In the corner of the cooler at the overflow is a 
draw-off tap, to enable the cooler to be cleaned out 
conveniently after use. 

The cooler should be mounted so that the head 
(feed) end is against the wall, so as to leave room 
for working on both sides. 

The question of colouring vegetables has been 
dealt with in various ways in the legislative 
enactments of different countries. The author will 
describe the method of colouring practised in 
France. Where this method is not allowed by 
law, colouring must either be omitted, or else 
performed with chlorophyll  a troublesome and 
unreliable process. 

The filled tins must be cooled down by placing 
them on a stone floor in a suitable room. Here 
they are left all night, and are cleaned up next 
morning before being transferred to store. All 
tins whose lids have not become concave or are 
still springy must be put aside as imperfect. The 
use of water for cooling is wrong, apart from 
the fact that it facilitates rusting at the lapped 
edges. 



74 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The only exception is in the case of asparagus, 
water being used for cooling on the pretext that 
the colour stands better. The author, however, 
after trying both, found no appreciable difference 
between them. 

The three chief factors in the preparation of 
preserved vegetables are : large enough plant, 
suitable raw materials, and scrupulous cleanliness 
in working. 

It must also not be forgotten that the tins 
play a very important part, and should be ob- 
tained from a reputable maker. In very large 
preserving works it will be better to make the 
tins on the premises. 

Peas, beans, and cabbage, are blanched in per- 
forated copper cages, fitting into the boiling pans 
so that the handles project at the top and the 
cages easily Kfted out. 

Carrots, cauliflower, kohlrabi, and other light 
coloured vegetables, should be blanched in tinned 
iron cages ; and the boiling pans should be 
tinned inside. 

Asparagus requires special loose cages of per- 
forated tinplate, of circular shape, the same 
depth as the length of the prepared asparagus, 
and covered with a lid. These trays are placed 
on a tinned iron grid, fitted at the sides with 
movable hooks so that the grid can be set higher 
or deeper in the water in lilanching. 

The asparagus cages are first set at such a depth 
in the water that only the lower ends of the 
sticks are wetted ; and only when the operation 




6D 

a 
3 

o 

pq 






76 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

is drawing near a close are the cages lowered 
so as to submerge the top part of the sticks 
and the heads. In this way a decidedly superior 
product is obtained. 

All the filling liquor should be boiled with the 
necessary adjuncts in a morning, and turned into 
large clean vessels for any impurities to settle 
down. If no other course is opien, the filling 
liquor is used without Ijoiling, experience show- 
ing that it has no influence on the preserve. 
However, the former method is the sole means 
of obtaining a clear liquor. 

Greened vegetables should not be exposed to 
direct sunlight, or the colour will be injured ; and 
such vegetables should Ije worked up as (|uickly 
as possible. 

In storing the filled tins, care should be taken 
to keep the lids underneath, i.e. the tins are 
stood on their heads  in the case of asparagus, 
because it is necessary that the heads of the 
asparagus should be upright. 

In sterilising the tins the autoclave (Fig. V) 
is filled nearly one-third full of water, the cage con- 
taining the tins is introduced, and a little steam is 
admitted. The heating of the tins should proceed 
slowly, so that Ijy the time the water is boiling, 
the contents of the tins will have attained the 
same temperature. Until this point is reached 
the air tap on the lid is left open to allow all 
the cold air to escape. The tap being then 
closed, the pointer on the pressure gauge will 
move over the dial till the desired degree is 



a 



i-'k 







Fig. 7.  Autoclave. 

77 



78 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

attained, whereupon the valve is adjusted to 
maintain the pressure at tliat levul ; and when 
the proper time has elapsed, the steam is shut 
off, the valves opened, and the cane taken out. 

A\'lien the above precautions are followed, there 
is no need hn* the fluctuations of temperature, so 
often read about in autocla^'es. 



Asparagus. 

The fresh asparagus is sorted out according to 
quality, laid in fresh water, and after being peeled, 
is packed tightly in the blanching cage and boiled 
as described in pure water without any salt. A 
few loose stalks in tlie pan will show the boiler 
when the })roper stage of boiling has been reached, 
i.e. when the stalks can be easily bent between 
the thumb and forefinger. The cage is then 
placed in plenty of running water (cold) until 
properly cooled, wliereupon the stalks are taken 
out and packed in the tins. 

For this purpose a sufficient number of selected 
stalks are grasped in the left hand, the right hand 
holding the tin, and are inserted into the tin 
head first, any additional stalks required to fill 
the tin being put in separately. 

The filling liquor consists of Iwiled 2 per cent, 
salt water. Asparagus of the most delicate quality 
is preferably sterilised in an open water-bath, 
the small tins being treated for 55 minutes, 
medium size ones 120 minutes, and the largest 
150 minutes. 



8o THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Less delicate sorts, and such as have been kept 
for a time must, however, be sterilised in the 
autoclave for 15 minutes, the two smaller sizes at 
2::! 5 F, and the largest at 240 F. 

In the cooling process the tins are stood on 
their heads. 

Peas. 

The peas having been shelled in the machine 
(Figs. 8 and 9) are placed in a sorting machine, 
which is run at a low speed in order to ensure 
uniform classification. 

The first Ijoiling of the finer sorts takes 4-5 
minutes, the larger sizes a little longer. The 
freshness and quality of the peas must always 
be taken into consideration, so that no definite 
rule can be laid down. The best method of 
boiling is to take about 45 lb. at a time, 
these being placed in a suitable copper cage. 
The pan is charged with about 13 gallons of 
water, and as soon as this is boiling, an ounce 
of copper sulphate is added and the cage intro- 
duced. Boiling is continued briskly until finished, 
the scum being stirred and removed with a suitable 
wooden spoon. The peas are taken out and cooled 
for packing. 

The filling liquor consists of water containing 
2 per cent, of salt and an equal amount of 
sugar. 

To carry on the filling process quickly and 
uniformly the peas are turned into a tinned 
iron l;iox of suitable size, fitted with handles 




a 

IS 






82 



THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 



on both sides. The filling liquor is poured into 
this box, and the tins are filled by dipping 
them into the mass and stroking the surplus 
peas off with the hand. The method is easy, its 
advantages being apparent to -a beginner in the 
first few minutes. 




Fin. 10.  Track for conveying tins. 

The tins are placed tm trays, fitted on three 
sides with a, border :! inches deep but open on the 
fourth. Two holes for the hands are cut out 
on the right and left. Each tray should 
accommodate twenty ]h pint tins or thirty- 
five I pint tins. 




1 1( n 
83 



84 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

The trays are placed on a truck (Fig. 10), 
and taken to the closing machine (Fig. 11), 
which may be of the single- or double-lever type, 
either being efficient. 

From this machine the closed tins are placed 
direct in the cages, which are also placed on 
trucks (Fig. 12) to facilitate conveyance to the 
autoclave. 

The smallest tins must be sterilised for 15 
minutes at 230 F., the 11- pint tins for 20 




Fig. 12.  Truck for conveying cages. 

minutes at 235 F., and the 3 pint tins for 
25 minutes at the last-named temperature. 

To prevent the larger kinds of peas from jelly- 
ing, it is advisable to add one-tenth per cent, of 
sodium carbonate to the filling li(|uor. 

In colouring ]iieas with chlorophyll, \ery soft 
water or rain water is used, and all the vessels 
tMnployud must lie tinned or enamelled. For 
every 45 lb. of peas, 5i gallons of water are 
heated to 195 F., 14 oz. of the colouring matter 
being added and the peas pou.red in. The tempera- 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 85 

ture is then raised to boiling-point, the peas being 
stirred with a wooden ladle, and the colouring 
matter is allowed to react for 12 to 15 minutes, 
without actual boiling. After cooling and filling, 
the peas are sterilised in the usual way. 

Beans. 

The most suitable kinds of young, uncut beans, 
are the Haricot flageolet noir and Merveille de 
Paris of Vilmorin Andrieux & Co., Paris. These 
are broken off, top and l_)ottom, by hand (without a 
knife), since at that stage of ripeness they are not 
stringy, and are sorted into two sizes, any very 
coarse specimens being laid on one side. The next 
stage is blanching in copper cages, as described for 
peas, except that only three-fourths of the amount 
of copper sulphate is taken. When cold, the beans 
are turned into tinplate boxes and filled into ^ lb. 
and 1 lb. tins. The packer keeps a quantity of 
beans of uniform size ready to hand, to form a top 
layer and improve the appearance of the goods 
when the tins are opened. The filling liquor is 
water containing 2 per cent, of salt and boiled 
with a little bean foliage. 

The 2 lb. tins should be sterilised for 1 minutes 
at 230 P., the 1 lb. tins for 12 minutes at the 
same temperature, and 2 lb. tins for 16 minutes 
at 235 P. 

Flageolet Beans. 

The best kind is Vilmorin Andrieux & Go's. 
Haricot flageolet Chevrieux, which is distinguished 



86 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

by its beautiful pale green colour, and possesses 
all the properties that can be expected from a 
preserved flageolet bean. 

The beans can Ije shelled and sorted in the 
machine, but extra screens are required for this 
purpose. The beans are coloured in the same 
proportion as peas, but the operation must be 
started with cold water, and the temperature 
slowly raised to boihng. The smaller kinds are 
blanched for 7-8 minutes, the larger ones for 810 
minirtes. 

The tins are filled only aliout four-fifths full, and 
plenty of liquor is added, the beans swelling up 
during sterilisatimi. 

The filling liquor contains 2| per cent, of salt 
and a little soda (at the rate of about li oz. per 
10 gallons). 

First quality goods should be sterilised at 230 F., 
the half tins for 20 minutes, and the whole tins 
for 2 5 minutes ; for seconds the temperature is 
235 F. 

Sliced Beans. 

These are sliced in the macliine (Fig. 13) and 
treated as already (lescril)cd. It is advisable to 
weigh tlie quantities put into the tins, in order to 
ensure uniform packing. 

French Beans. 

Young, tender beans are left whole, but larger 
sizes are cut into two to three pieces. Blanching 



88 



THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 



anil sterilising are performed in the same way as for 
other beans. 

Carrots. 
Freshly pulled carrots are trimmed off', top and 
bottom, and cleaned in a machine (Fig. 14), i.e. 
the thin skin is removed, this being best effected 
while the carrots are still fresh and have been 
scalded in soda and water. The roots are separated 




Fig. 14.  Carrot-cle;uiii)'^ niacliine. 



into two or three grades before blanching, this last 
operation being performed in tinned pans until 
tlie carrots are soft right through. 

The same filling liquor is used as for peas ; and 
the best quality carrots are sterilised for 20 
minutes, the small tins at 230 F., and the large 
ones at 235 F., the second quality being treated 
for 25 minutes at these temperatures. 

A mixture of peas and carrots, ^packed in 
alternate layers in the tins, is highly appreciated. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 89 

Spinach. 

Spinach may be left in the natural state, or 
coloured like peas. After boiling and cooling, 
it is chopi)ed fine in a macliine, and then mixed 
with salt and meat broth (or water) for packing 
into the tins. A previous heating to boiling is 
advantageous, as is also hot filling. Sterilising 
is performed at 245 F., half tins for 20 
miniites, whole tins for 2.5 minutes, and double- 
size tins for -^ an hour. 

Artichokes. 

A distinction is drawn between whole artichokes 
and artichoke crowns. For the first-named, the 
small, young artichokes are boiled for about 10 
minutes in plenty of water, then cooled and 
packed. "Weak salt and water is used as filling 
liquor. The sterilising process is the same as for 
beans. 

Artichoke crowns require greater care in pre- 
paration. The peeling of the crowns is best 
performed in a special machine, such as that made 
by Navarre, of Paris. 

When working in small quantities, without a 
machine, the leaves are removed and the inner 
crown scraped out with a suitable knife, peeled 
nice and round from the outside, and placed at 
once in hot water containing neutralin. The 
crowns are then blanched, in small quantities at 
a time, in the same careful manner as asparagus. 



go THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

i.e. in tinplate cages, cooled, and packed in 
asparagus tins. The larger crowns are put into 
large tins, the smaller into small ones. The 
usu.al method of packing is in deep quarter tins 
(the same shape as for mushrooms), and in the 
small and medium size asparagus tins, no larger 
sizes being used. 

The filling liquor consists of 11 gallons of water, 
2] lb. of salt, and If oz. of citric acid crystals. 

Artichoke crowns are sterilised on the water- 
bath, the small tins being heated for 50 minutes 
after the boiling-point has been reached, and the 
large tins for 75 minutes. 

All contact of the crowns with iron must be 
avoided ; and the greatest cleanliness must be 
observed throughout. 

Tomatoes. 

Whole tomatoes are preserved in asparagus tins, 
undamaged fruit being selected in sizes suitable 
for the tins. 

The tomatoes are wiped clean with a cloth, put 
into the tins without pressure, and coveied with 
weak brine. The filled tins are heated slowly on 
tlie water-bath, the smaller sizes for 5 minutes 
(reckoned from boiling-point) and the larger for 
10 minutes. 

The tins are left to cool down without touching 
them, or the fruit will not remain whole ; and for 
the same reason great care is necessary in storing 
them. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES gi 

Tomato puree is an article that can be made in 
large quantities, and enjoys ever increasing popu- 
larit}-. To be successful it must be jirepared from 
fully ripe fruit; and it is owing to the suitability 
of southern climates for tomato cultivation that 
the best fruit is obtained from Italy, France, 
Hungary, and warm countries generally. The fruit 
is first crushed in a mill, between stone rollers, 
the stalks having of course been taken off before- 
hand. The resulting pulp is placed in large tinned 
copper pans and heated to boiling, and then 
strained through a machine, being afterwards 
returned to the same pans and heated, with 
stirring, until three-fifths of the total weight has 
evaporated, 100 parts of tomatoes furnishing 40 of 
finished pulp. 

This pulp, which, if desired, can be stained with 
tomato-red, is then filled hot into tins or glass 
botbles, which are closed and sterilised on the 
water-bath like fruit compote. If intended for 
storage in bulk, the pulp is filled hot into i cwt. 
tins previously rinsed out with boiling water. The 
filled tins are closed at once, turned upside down, 
and left to cool. 

These tins are fitted with lapped, or preferably 
soldered, ends, a 2 -inch hole being left in the upper 
end for the introduction of the boiling pulp, and 
then covered with a small lid which is soldered 
down. 

The pulp may also be stored in glass carboys 
holding 810 gallons, these vessels being 
thoroughly cleansed and kept ready filled with 



92 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

hot water. When the pulp is ready, it is turned 
into a suitable pan to cool down a little, and is 
then filled into the just emptied hot glass vessels. 
The latter are stoppered with plu^s of cotton 
wool, previously soaked in salicylic acid, and are 
then put into store. 

Mixed Vegetables (Macedoine). 

Fifty 11). of large carrots, cut in long slices, 
20 lb. of j'onug beans, sliced, and 50 cabbage 
turnips (kohlral^i), also cut. A portion of the 
carrots and kohlrabi may be shaped in the press. 
These having been blanched are put into a large 
vessel with 3i gallons of No. III. peas and the 
same quantity of flageolet beans II. (both washed 
with warm water and weak brine), then filled into 
tins and sterilised as in the case of beans. 



Tinned Julienne. 

Forty-four lb. of large carrots, 22 lb. of white 
cabbage, 5 heads of celery, 2^ lb. of leeks, 6| lb. 
of beans, 1 lb. of parsnips, 1 onions, and an equal 
number of cabbage turnips. 

These are all shredded, boiled separately, and 
finally mixed with 4 J gallons of No. II. peas 
(washed) and packed. Sterilising and filling liquor 
the same as above. 

Inferior qualities can, of course, be prepared by 
omitting some of the ingredients ; or better qualities 
by the addition of morels, etc. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 93 

Leipzig All-Sorts. 

This is a mixture of peas, asparagus, cauliflower, 
carrots, and morels, several grades being prepared 
according to the quality of the peas. The usual 
proportions are : peas, 6 per cent. ; carrots, 2 6 per 
cent. ; asparagus, 1 5 per cent. ; and morels, 5 per cent. 
The latter if unobtainable fresh may be used in the 
dried state, being, then softened, washed repeatedly, 
and blanched the same as if fresh. Fresh carrots 
and peas are generally used, with tinned asparagus. 

Celery Chunks. 

Small and medium size heads are dismembered, 
thoroughly cleaned with water and a brush, then 
blanched in water for 10 minutes, peeled and cut 
into chunks. The latter are left to bleach for 
several hours in water containing 1 per cent, of 
-citric acid, taken out and packed in tins. The 
filling liquor consists of weak brine, also containing 
a little citric acid. The 1-^- pint tins are sterilised 
for 25 to 30 minutes at 230 F. 

Mushrooms. 

The mushrooiuK are obtained from France in 
casks during the winter months, or rather from 
September to March. On arrival, the casks are 
opened and the C(jntents washed for several hours 
in plenty of running water. 

Neutralin is added in blanching, the mushrooms 



94 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

being boiled for about 20 minutes, with frequent 
skimming, and cooled in fresh water. They are 
next sorted into three sizes, the smallest being put 
into the smallest tins, and so on. A 1|- pint tin 
is reckoned to hold about 1 lb., and the smaller sizes 
in exact proportion, all being carefully weighed. 

The filling liquor is prepared in advance, 22 
gallons of water being boiled and treated to an 
addition of 4-|- lb. of salt, 3-1 oz. of citric acid 
crystals. The 1 h pint and | pint tins are sterilised 
for 50 minutes at 235 F., and the smaller sizes for 
45 minutes at 230 F. 

When fresh mushrooms are supplied they must 
be cleaned, trimmed off at the bottom, and freed 
from the brown skin by means of caustic soda. 

Edible Boletus. 

These fungi, which are often used in place of 
mushrooms, must first be cleaned up by removing 
the lamelte under the pileus, then skinned and cut 
up into suitable shoes. The sound stalks are also 
used. 

In other respects the treatment is exactly the 
same as for mushrooms. 

Morels, Orange Agaric (Lactarium), 
Chanterelles, etc. 

These are cleaned up, washed, and well blanched 
in plenty of water, the scum being carefully 
removed. 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 95 

After cooling, they are packed in tins, covered 
with brine the same as other vegetables, and 
sterilised as above. 



Pickled Mushrooms. 

The mushrooms are prepared as already de- 
scribed, packed with good wine vinegar, and 
sterilised, the li pint tins taking 30 minutes. 

Truffles. 

Fresh French or ItaUan truffles are sorted into 
two quaUties by cutting a small piece out of each 
truffle with a sharp knife, the truffles with dark 
flesh being classed as prime, the paler kinds as 
seconds. They are then scrubbed in warm water, 
preferably by hand, and carefully blanched for ^ of 
an hour with white wine in a tinned or enamelled 
pan, 5 of a pint of wine being taken to a pound of 
truffles. 

The next step is to spread them out on a clean 
metal tray to cool, after which they are weighed 
into the tins. The half tins are reckoned to hold 
7 oz., and the smaller sizes in exact proportion. 
Sterilising takes 30-40 minutes at 230 F., ac- 
cording to size. The filling liquor consists of the 
wine used for blanching, supplemented by as much 
fresh wine as is required. 

If necessary, the truffles may als(j be skinned 
with a sharp knife, the skins being also preserved 
to form a spice for patties, truffled sausage, etc. 



96 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Pickled Gherkins (Cornichons). 

The raw material is an important factor, and 
should always be obtained from a reliable firm, 
such as Vilmorin Andrieux & Co., 4 Quai de la 
Megisserie, Paris. 

The stalks are cut oft' and the gherkins sorted 
into three sizes, They are then carefully washed 
and packed into suitable clean barrels. Dill may 
be used as spice, but nothing else. 

A pickle is poured over them, consisting of 12 
per cent, brine containing 25 per cent, of good wine 
vinegar ; and the barrels are set out in the sun, 
in a yard or other warm place, with the bung-holes 
open, so as to (quickly start a slight fermentation. 
When this has run its course, the casks are cleaned 
up, filled to the top with the same liquor if necessary, 
and bunged down. 

For use, the gherkins are taken out of the barrels, 
washed, and packed witli fresh wine vinegar spiced 
with tarragon. When it is desired to keep these 
small gherkins stored in the barrels for a long period, 
the fermented pickle should, be I'un oft' and replaced 
by fresh 12 per cent, brine. 

Salted Gherkins. 

The })roper selection of the raw material is also 
important in this case, and recent experience has 
shown the advisability of pricking the gherkins in 
a machine at the outset. 

The gherkins are washed clean, wiped dry with 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 97 

a clean cloth, and placed in well-cleaned wine casks 
of hard wood. A layer of vine and morella cherry 
leaves and dill flowers is placed at the bottom, 
another being used to cover the gherkins, and a 
third one intermediate between the others. The 
filled barrels are headed, a 5 per cent, brine being 
poured in through the bung-hole, and the barrels, 
loosely bunged, are set in a warm place or in the 
sun until fermentation is terminated. They are 
then cleaned up, any deficiency of brine laeing made 
good, and the bungs driven home, the barrels being 
placed in the cellar, where they are rolled several 
times before being placed in their final position. 

Gherkins in Mustard. 

Large, ripe, firm-fleshed gherkins are skinned, cut 
in halves, the core removed, and then cut into long 
strips. These are placed in tubs and well-sprinkled 
with salt, so as to form sufficient brine, in which 
the gherkins are left for several days. 

The gherkins are then washed, packed in barrels 
with yellow mustard seed, a few laurel leaves and 
white peppercorns, small onions, sliced horse radish 
and shredded ginger, sufficient boiling wine vinegar 
being poured in to cover the whole. After a few 
days the vinegar is drawn off, boiled up, and re- 
turned to the barrels, the contents of which are 
then heavily weighte<I. The vinegar, however, must 
not be allowed to fall below 4 per cent., or it will 
have to be supplemented. In 3-4 weeks the 
gherkins should be clear and translucent. 
7 



98 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Mixed Pickles. 

These are a mixture of young, tender vegetables, 
preserved separately, each at its proper season, and 
stored (preferably in large glass jars) for mixing 
later on. 

Small gherkins, young corn cobs, pickling onions, 
green and red capsicums, cauliflower, young beans, 
French beans, and French carrots, form the chief 
ingredients of the mixture, large capers and salted 
olives being also used by some makers. 

All the vegetables are lightly blanched and left 
to stand for several days in strong brine in order 
to ensure their keeping. They are then put in 
jars with good vinegar, warmed up in the water- 
bath, and closed up. The vegetables may, however, 
be stored separately in brine in the case of very 
large quantities. 

For packing in bottles or other receptacles, good 
4 per cent, wine vinegar is used, this being spiced 
with an extract prepared in the following manner :  
To 2 1 gallons of vinegar add ]. 8 oz, of black pepper, 
9 oz. of ginger, 9 oz. of salt, 5 oz. of pimento or 
English spice, '.! oz. of white pepper, a few laurel 
leaves, and a little tarragon, allowing the mixture 
to draw for 14 days in the warm, and then filtering. 
In all cases it is important to carefully heat the 
filled bottles on the wiiter-liath before closing. 

Piccalilli. 

The mixed pickles are packed with the follnwing 
preparation instead of vinegar:  21 lb. of best 



PRESERVED VEGETABLES 99 

English mustard powder are stirred up with a pint 
of best olive oil, and to this is added 2| lb. of 
castor sugar, |- lb. of salt, and 34 pints of good 
vinegar, with A pint of curry vinegar. 

This latter is prepared from 3|- oz. of turmeric, 
4 oz. of coriander, 1 oz. of black pepper, 1 oz. of 
ginger, | oz. of cardamoms, 1 oz. of carraway seeds, 
and I oz. of cayenne pepper (all powdered), with 
2^ gallons of wine vinegar. 

When all has been thoroughly mixed together 
the sauce is strained through a hair sieve. 



PART III. 

PRESERVED MEATS. 



PRESERVED MEATS. 

In this section we shall deal, not with the 
manufacture of preserved meats on a large scale, 
but with the preparation of potted meats for 
tourists, and similar articles which can be profitably 
made in small works, the season for them falling at 
a slack time of the year. 

An ordinary fireplace, preferably fitted with a 
hot hearth, will be quite sufficient, with a few large 
and small iron pans, a mincing machine, and a few 
perforated cages. 

The recipes given are easy to carry out, but 
three main rules must be observed : best meat, 
best adjuncts, and scrupulous cleanliness. 

The tins used should be those that can be 
opened easily with a key supplied for the purpose, 
the older form of tins being more difficult to sell 
nowadays. 

The meat, whether boiled or roast, should be 
well cooked so that it shows no redness when cut 
through. Roast meat should be well browned, so 
as to have the characteristic aroma. Any vege- 
tables used as garnish must be only slightly 
l)lanched. 

The bones, sinews, and fat must be made into 



I04 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

strong stock for the preparation of the sauces or 
gravies. 

The meat is weighed into the tins in all cases, 
a quarter. tin, weighing nearly 10 oz. gross, always 
containing at least I lb. of meat, except when 
garnished, in which case the meat will be about 
^ oz. less. 

Best lard, preferably liome-niade, is used as fat, 
and any butter ^irescribed should he best fresh. 
Quarter tins should be sterilised for 50 minutes at 
230 F., except in the case of veal or sausage, for 
which 45 minutes will suffice. 

On removal from the autoclave, the tins are 
merely well rinsed over, and then set one upon 
another, lids up, to cool. Next day they are 
thoroughly cleaned with sawdust, examined, and 
put into store. 

Veal Cutlets. 

The cutlets are trimmed, the Isone chopped 
off as close as possible, the meat sprinkled with 
salt and roasted in equal quantities of butter 
and fat. One cutlet is put into each tin, with 
a gravy prepared from the surplus roasting fat 
and a little flour. 

Veal Cutlets and Peas. 

The preparation is the same as above, except 
that green peas, prepared with fresh butter and 
chopped parsley, are added. Tinned or bottled 
peas may also lie used. 



PRESERVED MEATS 105 

Pricandeau of Veal and Rolled Veal. 

The fricandeau is made of bimed leg of veal, 
well larded, and the roulade of buned shoulder and 
breast. The prepared meat is roasted in fat, and 
cut in suitable pieces when cold. Peas are 
frequently added as garnish. 

The gravy is made of e(|ual parts of butter and 
fat, heated and stirred up with flour, the surplus 
roasting fat and a sufficient amount of stock being 
added. The whole is gradually raised to boiling 
over a slow fire, a little p'lm'c of tomatoes being 
finally added. 

Roast Veal. 

Boned leg of veal, with the usual adjuncts, is 
roasted, cut up, and packed in tins with gravy. 

Veal Qoulasch. 

Shoulder, breast, and leg of veal are boned and 
cut up into pieces the size of walnuts. Onions, in 
the proportion of 18 oz. to every 22 lb. of meat, 
are fried to a light yellow in their own weight of 
lard, and then mixed with the meat, the requisite 
amount of salt, and a tablespoonful of red capsicum, 
the whole being boiled with a little gravy until 
cooked through. Of course the mixture is kept 
stirred all the time. 

When finished, the meat is placed on a suitable 
sieve and packed, each tin receiving 4 oz. of meat 
and being then filled up with the sauce. An 
addition of tomato purie is also recommended. 



io6 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Calf's Head en Tortue. 

The cleaned calf's head is cut in two and left 
to soak in fresh A\ater overnight. Next morning 
it is blanched for 1|- hours in weak brine, the 
flesh being taken off tlic lioues when cold, and 
packed into the tins. 

A white sauce, containing plenty of white wine, 
is prepared, mixed with tomato puree and strongly 
spiced. This sauce is poured over the meat, 
chopped truffles, mushrooms, and stoned salt olives, 
being added as a garnish. 

Servian Rice Meat. 

Selected veal from the leg and shoulder is cut 
up and boiled the same as for goulasch. Mean- 
while one-fourth the quantity of best rice is half 
boiled, well salted, and mixed with the meat, 
without gravy. The whole is filled into tins and 
topped with the same sauce as for goulasch. 

Beef Goulascfi. 

Any odd joints, such as neck, brisket, ribs, etc., 
can be used, all the fat and gristle l.ieing removed, 
the meat cut up into cubes, whilst all the bones, 
sinews, etc., are made into strong broth, which must 
be ready at the same time as the meat, for which 
it is to serve as gravy. 

To every h cwt. of cut meat 10 \h. of chopped 
onions are well browned with 4|^ lb. of beef fat. 



PRESERVED MEATS 107 

The meat is added, with a suitable quantity of 
1 troth, and the whole boiled for about 25 minutes, 
with constant stirring'. Finally about 2^ oz. of 
capsicums and 1 1 ll.i. of halt are added. The flesh 
is placed on sieves, weighed, cut, and packed along 
with enough gravy ti.i cover it completely. 

Bouillon Meat. 

A strong broth must first be prepared by boiHng 
marrow bones for 68 houi's, and in this broth the 
meat, preferably from the hindquarters and cut 
into pieces weighing 78 lb., is boiled gently for 
1^2 hours, so as to be well cooked right through. 

An hour beforehand there should have been 
placed in the pan a net containing spices to the 
amount of | lb. of parsley root, 2| lb. of yellow 
turnips, an equal quantity of leeks, 4-i- lb. of celery, 
^ lb. of onions, f oz. of peppercorns, f oz. of nut- 
meg, and a few broken laurel leaves, per cwt. of 
meat. When the meat is taken out to cool the 
broth is well salted, concentrated a little if necessary, 
and strained through flannel, the fat being carefully 
skimmed off. This bouillon should set to a jelly 
on cooling. 

The meat is cut into suitable pieces, weighed, 
packed, and covered with the bouillon. 

Roast Beef. 

A roasting joint or suitable cut from the hind- 
quarters is freed from skin, cleaned, rubbed with 



io8 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

salt and pepper, and roasted in small pieces with 
the usual spices, the gravy being thickened to a 
sauce with l)one broth and a little flour, coloured 
with burnt sugar if iiecessar}'. 

Roast Beef and Onions or Sardines. 

Boasting joints are cut up into suitable sizes, 
the pieces being salted and peppered and roasted in 
a mixture of butter and fat. When placed in the 
tins, the meat is covered with lightly browned 
slices of onion, or with a sardine cut in halves, and 
the corresponding sauce. 

Steak and Potatoes. 

Sirloin is skinned, cut into suitalDle pieces, beaten, 
salted and peppered, and roasted quickly in butter; 
then placed in the tins, garnished with a few small 
Ijaked potatoes, and poured over with the surplus 
roasting fat. 

Hungarian Sirloin. 

Tlie sirloin is prepared as above, larded with 
strips of bacon rolled in red capsicums, and roasted. 
When done, the meat is cooled, cut into suitable 
pieces, and put into tins with the gravy. 

Sz^kely Goulasch. 

Lean pork, preferably the belly parts freed from 
fat, is boned, cut into cubes, and prepared in the 



PRESERVED MEATS 109 

same manner as beef goulasch, except that a 
smaller amount of capsicums is taken. 

Meanwhile a quaintity of sauerkraut is prepared, 
equal portions of this and the goulasch being placed 
in the tins. Tomato purAe is added to the goulasch 
sauce. 



Ox Tongue with Puree of Peas or Sauerkraut. 

The fresh tongues must iirst be pickled {src 
Pickled Tongue), or else pickled tongues are 
purchased from the butcher. They must be boiled 
for about 2 hours to enable the skin to be removed. 

In the meantime a well-spiced purie is made of 
shelled peas, with plenty of fat, and with this the 
tins are filled half full. The tongue is cut into 
pieces about 4 oz. each, and these are placed in the 
tins and covered with browned butter. 

Another method is to fill the tins half full of 
prepared sauerkraut and lay the slices of tongue on 
top. 

Ribs of Pork and Sauerkraut. 

Smoked ribs of pork are slowly boiled for about 
I of an hour, divided into \ lb. pieces, and placed 
in tins already half full of sauerkraut. 

Vienna Sausage and Sauerkraut. 

The sausages, which must be perfectly fresh, are 
first placed in hot water, and packed into tins (three to 
four in each) which are then filled up with sauerkraut. 



no THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

About 1 cwt. of raw sauerkraut is used per 
1000 tins. This quantity is boiled in a tinned 
pan, and at the end of an hour is mixed with 2 }i lb. 
of flour fried in an equal ipiantity of lard, another 
7 lb. of lard being added to the sauerkraut by 
degrees. 

Beef a la Mode. 

Leg of beef is laid in a pickle, half vinegar and 
half water, spiced with onions, laurel, lemon slices, 
and pepper, for several days, then stewed with 
plenty of fat, cut into shces and put into tins with 
the gravy, the piquant flavour being heightened by 
adding white wine. Young or preserved carrots 
and half-boiled potato cubes ai'e added as a garnish. 

Roast Hare and Macaroni. 

The hare is cut up, freed from skin, and the 
best joints, back and hind legs, are placed in piclcle 
for a few days. This pickle is made l)y boiling 
vinegar with twice its volume of water, a few shces 
of onion and lemon, jumper berries, laurel leaves, 
and rosemary, with the necessary amount of salt, 
the meat being introduced when the pickle is cold. 

After pickling, the meat is dried, well larded, 
and roasted with lard. The resulting gravy is 
prepaied with plenty of sour cream, and strained 
like all sauces. Tlie cold hare is cut into suitalilu 
pieces, and put into the tins along with the sauce. 
Macaroni broken into small jjieces, boiled till half 
soft in water, and then larded with good fresh 



PRESERVED MEATS iii 

butter, is used as a garnish, a tablespoonful being 
put in at one side of the tin. About 3 lb. of 
macaroni will be enough for 60 tins. 

The heart, liver, and forelegs are roasted by them- 
selves, to be used later on, like the trimmings from 
the main joints, for hare " paste." 

Roast Venison. 

The preparation is the same as for roast hare, 
and a sauce with plenty of sour cream is used. It 
is advisable to add one-third of Italian red wine to 
the pickle. The latter, however, is not used in 
preparing the sauce, water being sufficient when no 
stock is available. 

Roast Wild Boar. 

The flesh is trimmed free from fat, cut into 
suitable pieces, and steeped for 68 days in a 
mixture of vinegar and red wine, plentifully spiced 
with onions, a few garlic bulbs, crushed juniper 
berries, a few laurel leaves, cloves, pepper, a little 
lemon peel, and chopped ginger. The sauce is 
prepared with sour cream, made piquant with spices. 

Mutton and Cabbage. 

Boned leg and shoulder of mutton are roasted 
with salt, garlic, and a mixture of butter and fat 
(equal parts), the bones being placed in the pan in 
order to make a strong gravy. 



112 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

Three oz. of the meat are placed in each tin, 
along with a piece of cabbage, and the tin filled up 
with gravy. 

Thirty small hearts of cabbage are taken to 
evei}' 44 lb. of meat, and, after being washed, are 
quartered and lightly blanched in salt water. 

Ox Tongue. 

The cleaned tongues are well beaten with a 
wooden mallet and then rubbed thoroughly with 
a mixture of salt, pepper, and saltpetre, about 3 \ oz. 
of the latter being sufficient for 30 tongues. 

The tongues are next laid in suitable staunch 
wooden tubs and weighted down. If sufficient 
brine is not formed, water is poured in so as to 
cover the tongues, and the tubs are placed in a cool 
place. 

At the end of a month the tongues will be ready, 
and after being cleaned are boiled in fresh water 
for about 3 hours, to make them skin easily. 
They are then trimmed into the proper shape, and 
each is put into a separate tin. The best gravy 
is meat broth, freed from fat and mixed with 
a few sheets of gelatine, so that the brotli will 
.jelly. 

After tlie tins have been soldered down they are 
heated on the water-bath until the lids bulge, 
whereupon a small hole is punched in each lid, and 
after this hole has l^een soldered up again the 
tins are heated at 243 F. for an hour in the 
autoclave. 



PRESERVED MEATS 113 

Savoury Paste " Appetit-Pain." 

Tweuty-two lb. of veal are roasted with a 
mixture of fat and butter (half and half), 4^ lb. 
of fat pork are Ijoiled at the same time, and 
2 A \h. of sliced onions are lightly browned in 
2 lb. of fresh butter, the whole being set aside 
to cool. 

Two and a half lb. of stale bread, previously 
softened with water, are now pressed well, mixed 
with the yolk of 40 eggs, and incorporated with 
the cold minced meat, the onions, 2^- lb. of well- 
cleaned sardines, the juice of two lemons, 3 1- oz. 
of capers, half a tin of truffles, and pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg, the whole being passed through a mincer. 
When the mass has passed through the finest disc 
of the mincer it is laid on a marble slab and 
worked up with the beaten-up whites of the 40 
eggs and a little pasty spice. Should the mass be 
too firm to spread easily, it is mixed with the 
surplus roasting gravy or the broth from the boiled 
pork. 

The mixture is filled into tins with a spoon, 
the tins being closed and sterilised like other 
preserved meats. 

Beef Paste. 

Twenty-eight lb. of beefsteak or other tender 
joint are roasted with 2 J lb. of butter and a 
suitable quantity of salt. Meanwhile 11 lb. 
of fat pork are thoroughly boiled, and 2^ lb. of 
onions are browned with 1 lb. of butter. The 



114 THE PRESERVING OF FRUIT 

meat bones and trimmings are boiled to soup with 
leeks and celery. 

The cooled meat is cut up, mixed with the onions, 
spice, and a half tin of truffles, and put through the 
mincer, after which the whole is turned on to a 
marble slab and worked to the proper consistency 
with a bottle of sherry or madeira and the rest of 
the meat gravy and soup, plenty of spice being 
used. Finally it is put into tins and sterilised as 
usual. 

Hare Paste. 

Twenty-two pound of roast hare and 131- lb. of 
boiled fat pork are boued and cut up, being then 
mixed with l} lb. of browned onions, IJ lb of salt, 
a little pasty spice, and truiHe trimmings, and put 
through the mincer. The whole is then mixed 
with 4i- lb. best lard, the juice of two lemons, 
and the gravy or soup from the meat, and filled 
into tins. 

Venison Paste. 

This is prepared in the same way as hare paste, 
except that venison is used. 

Game Paste. 

This group of preisarations comprises only such 
game as pheasants, snipe, pigeon, etc. In all cases 
the roasted meat is separated from the bones, and 
reduced to the proper consistency with best butter, 
Lard is used only in the roasting. 



PRESERVED MEATS 



Foie Qras Paste. 



Thirty-three pounds of goose liver, thoroughly 
washed in water, are boiled with a little water until 
the inside is no longer rare. Meanwhile 44 lb. of 
fat belly of pork are boiled well, and the two when 
cold are mixed with thirty softened stale rolls, and 
put through the mincing machine to chop the mass 
up fine. 

The resulting mass is next kneaded on a stone 
slab with | lb. of salt, pasty spice, and 2-| lb. of 
chopped tinned truffles, the later being in cubes 
large enough to be visible in the mass. Finally 
the beaten-up white of 120 eggs is added, and the 
mixture put into tins. The simplest form to use 
the white of egg is dried egg albumin, 13 oz. of 
which, dissolved in 5 pints of cold water, will 
correspond to the above number of eggs. 



THE END 



INDEX 



Agaric, orange, tinned, 94. 
Almonds, green, preserving, 6, 

6. 
Angelica, 22. 
" Appetit-pain," 113. 
Apple jelly, 55. 
Apple marmalade, 47. 
Apple pulp in jam, 45, 46, 47, 

48, 53. 
Apples, 20. 

Apricots, canned, 27, 28. 
Apricots, halved and skinned, 

11. 
Apricots, lialved, unskinned, 

11. 
Apricot jam, 48. 
Apricot jelly, 56. 
Apricot marmalade, 46, 47. 
Apricots, whole, 11. 
Ai-tichokes, tinning, 89. 
Asparagus, tinned, 78. 
Autoclave, 76, 77. 

Beans, tinning, 85-88. 

Beef a la mode, 110. 

Beef paste, 113. 

Beef, roast, and onions or 

sardines, 108. 
Bilberries, canned, 30. 
Bilberries, preserved, 18. 
Bilberry jam, 50. 
Blackberries, preserving, 18. 
Blackberry Jam, 50. 
Blackberry jelly, 56. 
Blanching frnit, 31. 



Blanching vegetables, 74. 
Boletns, edible, 94. 

Candied fruits, 31-41. 
Candied peel, 62-66. 
Candying fruit, 35. 
Canned fruit, 25-30. 
Carrots, tinning, 88. 
Celery chunks, tinned, 93. 
Chanterelles, tinned, 94. 
Cherries, canned, 26. 
Cherries, Cornelian, 14. 
Cherries in vinegar, 24. 
Cherries, Mahaleb, 9. 
Cherries, Mahaleb, canned, 27. 
Cherries, stoned, preserving, 9. 
Cherries, unstoned, preserving, 

8. 
Cherry jam, 49. 
Cherry juice, 58. 
Cherry marmalade, 46. 
Cherry, morella, jam, 50. 
Chestnuts, glazed, 37. 
Chestnuts, preserving, 21. 
Chlorophyll, colouring peas 

with, 84. 
Citron peel, 62-6.i. 
Colouring matter for preserves, 

7. 
Colouring preserved vegetables, 

73. 
Coolers for preserved vegetables, 

72, 73. 
Cranberries, preserving, 18. 
Cranberry jelly, 56. 



ii8 



INDEX 



Currant jelly, 56. 
Currant marmalade, 45. 
Currant pulp in jams, 45, 46, 

49. 
Currant, red, jam, 49. 
Currant, red, and raspberry jam, 

52. 
Currants, canned, 26. 
Currants, preserving, 8. 

Figs, preserving, 19. 

Foie gras paste, 115. 

French beans, tinning, 86. 

Fruit, blanching, 31. 

Fruit, canned, 25-30. 

Fruit, glazing, 33. 

Fruit jellies, 54-57. 

Fruit jiiices, 57-59. 

Fruit, mixed, 22. 

Fruit pulp for ices, 61. 

Fruit pulp, storing, 42. 

Fruit, sulphuring, 32. 

Fruit syrups, 59, 60. 

Fruits, glazed and candied, 31- 

41. 
Fruits, preserved, 3-24. 

Game paste, 114. 
Glazed fruits, 31-41. 
Glazing fruit, 33. 
Gherkins in mustard, 96. 
Gherkins, pickled, 96. 
Gherkins salted, 96. 
Gooseberries, canned, 25. 
Gooseberries, preserving, 6. 
Gooseberry and strawberry jam, 

52. 
Gooseberry jam, 48. 
Goulasch, Sz(5kely, 108. 
Goula,scl], veal, 107. 
Greengage marmalade, 46. 
Greengages, canned, 29. 
Greengages, preserving, 12. 

Hare, roast and macaroni, 

110. 
Hare paste, 114. 
Heat, source of, for preserv- 



Jams, 48-53. 
.Jellies, fruit, 51-57. 
Juices, fruit, 57-59. 
Julienne, tinned, 92. 

Leipzig all-sorts, 93. 
Lemon syrup, 59. 

Macedoiue, tinning, 92. 

Marmalades, 42-48. 

Meats, preserved, 103-115. 

Melons, 20. 

Mixed pickles, 98. 

Mixed vegetables, tinning, 92. 

Morels, tinned, 94. 

Mushrooms, pickled, 95. 

Mu.shrooms, tinned, 93. 

Mustarda, 40. 

Mutton and cabbage, 111. 

Neutralin, 66. 

Nuts, black (unskinned), pre- 
serving, 9. 
!Nuts, white, 10. 

Orange marmalade, 47. 
Orange peel, 65, 66. 
Orange syrup, 59. 
Oranges, Genoa, 21. 
Ox tongue, 112. 

Ox tongue with peas or sauer- 
kraut, 109. 

Pans for boiling vetegables, 

74, 75. 
Pans for steaming fruit, 44, 45. 
Pans for preserving, 3. 
Pastes, meat, 113-115. 
Peach jell}', 56. 
Peach marmalade, 46. 
Peaches, canned, 29. 
Peaches (halved), 16. 
Peaches (whole), 15. 
Pears, canned, 27. 
Pears, halved, 14. 
Pears, whole, 13. 
Peas, tinning, 80. 
Piccalilli, 98. 
Pickled gherkins, 95. 



INDEX 



119 



Pickled musbrooius, 95. 
Pickles, mixed, 98. 
Pineapple jam, 52. 
Pineapple juice, 60. 
Pineapple, preserving, 23. 
Pineapple slices, glazing, 39. 
Plum jam, 52. 
Plum marmalade, 46. 
Plnms, blue, glazing, 36. 
Plums in vinegar, 23. 
Plums, late, canned, 29. 
Plums, Mirabelle, canned, 28. 
Plums, Mirabelle, preserving, 

12. 
Plums, skinned, 17. 
Pliuns, steeped, 47. 
Pork ribs and sauerkraut, 109. 
Preserved fruits, 3-67. 
Preserved meats, 103-115. 
Preserved vegetables, 71-99. 
Pulping machinery, 43, 44. 
Pulping machinery, 50, 51. 

Quince jelly, 55. 
Quinces, 16. 

Raspberry and red currant jam, 

52. 
RaspbeiTy jam, 49. 
Raspberry jelly, 56. 
Raspberry juice, 57. 
Raspberry marmalade, 45. 
Raspberries, preserving, 18. 
Rhubarb, preserved, 30. 
Roseberries, preserving, 16. 
Roscberry marmalade, 46. 

Savoury paste, 113. 

Shelling machine for peas, 79- 

81. 
Sirloin, Hungarian, 108. 
Slicing machine for beans, 87. 
Slicing machine for caiTots, 88. 
Spinach, tinning, 89. 
Steak and potatoes, 108. 
Sterilising fruit, 4. 



Sterilising tinned vegetables, 
76. 

Stoppers, patent, 3. 

Storing tinned vegetables, 76. 

Strawberry and gooseberry jam, 
52. 

Strawberry jam, 49. 

Strawberry jelly, 56. 

Strawberry juice, 58. 

Strawberry marmalade, 45. 

Strawberries, canned, 25. 

Strawberries, crystallised, 40. 

Strawberries, garden, preserv- 
ing, 7. 

Strawberries, wild, 8. 

Sulphuring fruit, 32. 

Syrups, fiuit, 59. 

Tiu-closing machine, 83. 
Tinned vegetables, 71-99. 
Tomato marmalade, 48. 
Tomato pur^e, 91. 
Tomatoes, tinning, 90. 
Truck for conveying cages, 84. 
Truck for conveying tins, 82. 
Truffles, tinned, 95. 

Veal cutlets, 104. 

Veal fricandeau, 105. 

Veal goulasch, 105. 

Veal roast, 105. 

Vegetables, preserved, 71-99. 

Venison paste, 114. 

Venison, roast, 111. 

Vienna sausage and sauerkraut, 

109. 
Vinegar, curry, 99. 
Vinegar, pickling, 98. 
Vinegar, presendng cherries in, 

24. 
Vinegar, preserving plums in, 

23. 

Water for preserving vegetables, 

71. 
Wild boar, roast. 111. 



Printed by Mobrisos & Gibb Limited, Edinburgh 



The Manufacture of 

PRESERVED FOODS AND 
SWEETMEATS. 



A HANDBOOK OP ALL 

The Processes for the Preservation of Flesh, Fruit, and 

Vegetables, and for the Preparation of Dried Fruit, 

Dried Vegetables, Marmalades, Fruit=Syrups, and 

Fermented Beverages, and of all kinds of 

Candies, Candied Fruit, Sweetmeats, 

Rocks, Drops, Drag6es, Pralines, 

etc. 

By A. HAUSNER. 

Translated from the German of the Third Enlarged Edition, 
Crown 8vo. 28 Illustrations. 223 Pages. 



CONTENTS. 



The Causes of the Putrefaction of Food  
The Chemical Composition of Foods  The 
ProduLits of Decomposition  The Causes 
of Fermentation and Putrefaction  Pre- 
servative Bodies  The Various Methods 
of Preserving' Food  The Preservation of 
Animal Food  Preserviuy Meat by Means 
of Ice  The Preservation of Meathy Char- 
poal  Preservation of Meat h\- Drying  
The Preservation of Meat hy the Exclusion 
of Air  The AppL-rt Muthod^Preservin;,^ 
Flesh liy .Smoldn;^^  t^uick-Sniokin,y  Pre- 
servin"; iMeat with Salt  (^uick- Salting' hy 
Air-Pressure  (^uick-Saltiii^ by Liquid- 
Pressure  Gamgee's Jlethotl of Preserving 
Meat  The Preservation of Egyfs  Pre- 
servation of White and Yolk of Ei,^!;'  
Milk Preser\ation  Condensed Jlilk  
The PreservatioQ of Fat  Manufacture of 
Soup-Tablets  Meat Biscuits  Extract of 
Beef The Preservation of Vegetable 
Foods in General  Compressing Green 
Vegetables Preservation of Vegetables 
hy Appert's Method  The Preservation of 
Fruit Preservation of Fruit by Storage  



The Preservation of Fruit by Drying- 
Drying Fruit by Artificial Heat Roastmg 
Fruit  The Preservation of Fruit with 
Sugar Boiled Preserved Fruit The 
Preservation of Fruit in Spirit, Acetic 
Acid, or Glj-cerine  Preservation of Fruit 
without Boiling  Jam Manufacture  The 
Manufacture of Fruit Jellies  The Mak- 
ing of Gelatine Jellies The Manufacture 
of Siilzra  The Preservation of Fer- 
mented Bevevcims 

THE MANUFACTURE OF CANDIED 
FRUIT : The ilannfacture of Boiled Sugar 
and Caramel The Candying of Fruit- 
Caramelised Fruit The Manufacture of 
Sugar Sticks, or Barley -Sugar  Bonbon- 
Making Fruit Drops The Manufacture 
ot Drag^es The Machinery and Appli- 
anres used in Candy Manufacture  
I)\eing Candies and Bonbons  Essential 
Ui)s used in Candy - Making ^ Fruit- 
Esseiices^The Manufacture of Filled Bon- 
bons, Liqueur Bonbons, and Stamped 
Lozenges Receipts for Jams and Jellies 
Receipts for Bonhon-Making Drag6es. 



Price 7s. 6cl. net (Post free, 7s. 9d, Home; 7s. lOd. Abroad). 

Can be obtained through all Booksellers, or of 

SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON, 

8 BROADWAY, LUDQATE HILL, LONDON, B.C. 



iritivtDoeD CatalOGue 

OF 

Special Weefinieal Siooks. 



PAGE 

Adhesives 10 

Agricultural Chemistry ... 9 
Air. Industrial Use of ... 10 
Alcohol, Industrial ... 9 

Alum and its Sulphates ... 8 

Ammonia 8 

Aniline Colours 3 

Animal Fats 6 

Anti-corrosive Paints ... 4 
Architecture, Terms in ... 22 
Architectural Pottery ... 12 
Artificial Perfumes ... 7 

Balsams 9 

Bleaching Agents, etc. ... 17 

Bone Products 8 

Bookbindijig 23 

Brick-making ... 11, 12 

Burnishing Brass 20 

Carpet Yarn Printing ... 16 

Casein 4 

Celluloid 23 

Cement 22 

Ceramic Books ... 11, 12 

Charcoal 8 

Chemical Analysis 8 

Chemical Essays 8 

Chemical Reagents ... 8 

Chemical WorKs 8 

Clays 12 

CoaJ dust Firing 19 

Colliery Recovery Work... 18 
Colour Matching (Textile) 16 
Colour-mixing for Uyers... 16 

Colour Recipes 3 

Colour Theory 16 

Combing Machines ... I 8 

Compounding Oils, etc. ... 6 
Condensing Apparatus ... 19 

Cosmetics ... 7 

Cotton Dyeing 17 

Cotton Spinning ... 17, 18 

Cotton Waste 18 

Cranes and Hoists ... 20 

Damask Weaving 15 

Dampness in Buildings ... 22 
Decorators' Books ... 4 

Decorative Textiles ... 15 

Dental Metallurgy 19 

Disinfection ... ... 9 

Driers 5 

Drugs 22 

Drying Oils 5 

Drying with Air, etc. ... 10 

Dyeing Ma ble 23 

Dyeing Woollen Fabrics... 17 

Dyers' Materials 16 

Dye-stuffs 17 

Edible Fats and Oils ... 7 
Electric Lamp Develop- 
ment 21 

Electric Wiring ... 20, 21 
Electricity in Collieries ... 18 

Emery 24 

Enamelling Metal 13 

Enamels ... 13 

Engineering Handbooks ... 19 



INDEX TO SUBJECTS 

PAGE 

Engraving ... ... ... 23 

Essenti-.! Oils 7 

Evaporating Apparatus 
External Plumbing 

Fats 

Faults in Woollen Goods 15 
Flax Spinning ..." ... 18 

Food and Drugs , 

Fruit Preserving 

Gas and Oil Engines 
Gas Firing ... 
Glass-making Recipes 

Glass Painting , 

Glue-making and Testing- 
Greases 

Gutta Percha 

Hat Manufacturing 
Hemp Spinning 



19 

20 

6,7 



22 
22 
19 
19 
13 
13 
8 
6 
11 
15 
18 
History of Staffs Potteries 12 

Hops 21 

Hot-water Supply ... 21 

India-rubber 11 

India-rubber Substitutes 5 

Inks 3, 4, 5, 9 

Insecticides., etc. ... ... 21 

Iron-corrosion ... ... 4 

Iron, Science of ... ... 19 

Iron and Steel Work ... 20 

Japanning 21 

Jute Spinning 18 

Lace-.Making ... ... 15 

Lacquering 20 

Lake Pigments 3 

Lead 10 

Leather-working Mater'ls6,ll 

Libraries ... 24 

Linoleum ... ... ... 5 

Lithographic Inks 5 

Lithography ... ... 23 

Lubricants ... 6 

Manures 8, 9 

Meat Preserving 22 

Medicated Soaps 7 

Metal Polishing Soaps ... 7 

Mineral Pigments 3 

Mineral Waxes 6 

Mine Ventilation 18 

Mine Haulage 18 

Mining, Electricity ... 18 

Needlework ... ... ... 15 

Oil and Colour Recipes ... 3 

Oil Boiling 5 

Oilmen's Sundries ... 3 

Oil Merchants' Manual ... 6 

Oils 5,6,7 

Ozone, Industrial Use of... 10 
Paint Manufacture ... 3 

Paint Materials 3 

Paint material Testing ... 4 
Paint Mixing ... 3,4 

Paper-Mill Chemistry ... 13 
Paper-pulp Dyeing ... 13 

Petroleum ... 6 

Pigments 3, 9 

Plumbers' Books 20 

Pottery Clays I'-J 



PAOB 

Pottery Decorating ... 11 

Pottery Manufacture 11, 12 

Pottery Marks 12 

Power-loom Weaving ... 14 

Preserved Foods 22 

Printers' Ready Reckoner 23 
Printing Inks ... 3, 4, 5 

"  - 13 

19 
9 
18 
10 
12 
... 8 
... 10 
... 9 
... 6 
... 17 
... 17 
... 19 
... 7 
... 7 
15, 17, 18 
5 



Recipes 

Reinforced Concrete 

Resins 

Ring Spinning Frame 
Risks of Occupations 
Riveting China, etc. 
Scheele's Essays ... 
Sealing Waxes 
Shale Oils and Tars 
Shoe Polishes 

Silk Dyeing 

Silk Throwing, etc. 
Smoke Prevention... 
Soap Powders 

Soaps 

Spinning 

Spirit Varnishes 

Staining Marble, and Bone 23 

Stain-removing Soaps ... 7 

Steam Drying 10 

Steam Turbines 20 

Steel Hardening 19 

Sugar Technology ... 23 

Sweetmeats 22 

Tallow 6 

Technical Schools, List ... 24 

Terracotta... 11 

Testing Paint Materials ... 4 

Textile Design 15 

Textile Fabrics ... 14, 15 

Textile Fibres 14 

Textile Materials 14 

Timber 21 

Toilet Soapmaking ... 7 

Toothed Gearing 20 

Varnishes ... 5 

Vegetable Fats and Oils ... 7 
Vegetable Preserving ... 22 

Warp Sizing 16 

Waste Utilisation 9 

Water, Industrial Use ... 10 
Water-proofing Fabrics ... 16 

Waxes 6 

Weaving Calculations ... 15 
White Lead and Zinc ... 5 
Wiring Calculations ... 21 

Wood Distillation ... 21 

Wood Extracts 21 

Wood Waste Utilisation... 22 

Wood-Dyeing 23 

Wcol-Dyeing 17 

Woollen Goods ... 15, 16, 17 

Woven Fabrics 16 

Writing Inks 9 

X-RayWork H 

Yarn Sizing 16 

Yarn Numbering and Test- 
ing H, 15 

Zinc White Paints ... 5 



PUBLISHED BY 



SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON, 

8 BROADWAY, LUDQATE, LONDON, E.C. 



FULL PARTICULARS OF CONTENTS 

Of the Books mentioned in tliis ABRIDGED CATALCCUE 
will be found in tlie following Catalogues of 

CURRENT TECHNICAL BOOKS. 



LIST I. 

Artists' Colours Bone Products  Butter and Margarine Manufacture Casein  
Cements Chemical Works (Designing and Erection) Chemistry (Agricultural, Indus- 
trial, Practical and Theoretical) Colour Mixing- Colour Manufacture Compounding 
Oils  Decorating  Driers Drying Oils  Drysaltery  Emery  Essential Oils  Fats 
Animal, Vegetable, Edible)  Gelatines Glues  Greases  Gums  Inks  Lead  
Leather  Lubricants  Oils  Oil Crushing  Paints  Paint Mauufacturing  Paint 
Material Testing  Perfumes  Petroleum  Pharmacy  Recipes (Paint, Oil and Colour 
 Resins  Sealing Waxes Shoe Polishes  Soap Manufacture  Solvents  Spirit 
Varnishes Varnishes White Lead Workshop Wrinkles. 



LIST II. 

Bleaching  Bookbinding Carpet Yarn Printing  Colour {Matching, Mixing 
'Theory)  Cotton Combing Machines Dyeing (Cotton, Woollen and Silk Goods)  
Dyers' Materials Dye-stuffs  Engraving  Flax, Hemp and Jute Spinning and Twisting 
 Gutta-Percha  Hat Manufacturing  India-rubber  Inks  Lace-making Litho- 
.graphy Needlework Paper Making  Paper-Mill Chemist  Paper-pulp Dyeing  
Point Lace  Power-loom Weaving Printing Inks  Silk Throwing  Smoke Preven- 
tionSoapsSpinningTextile (Spinning, Designing, Dyeing. Weaving, Finishing 
 Textile .ATaterials- Textile Fabrics Textile Fibres Textile Oils Textile Soaps 
Timber Water (Industrial Uses)  Water-proofing Weaving Writing Inks Yarns 
Testing, Sizing). 

LIST III. 

Architectural Terms  Brassware (Bronzing, Burnishing, Dipping, Lacquering)  
Brickmaking Building  Cement Work  Ceramic Industries China  Coal-dust Firing 
 Colliery Books  Concrete  Condensing Apparatus  Dental Metallurgy  Drainage  
Drugs  Dyeing  Earthenware Electrical Books  Enamelling-- Enamels  Engineer- 
ing Handbooks  Evaporating Apparatus  Flint Glass-making  Foods  Food Preserv- 
ing  Fruit Preserving  Gas Engines  Gas Firing  Gearing  Glassware (Painting, 
Riveting)  Hops  Iron (Construction, Science)  Japanning  Lead  Meat Preserving 
 Mines (Haulage, Electrical Equipment, Ventilation, Recovery Work from)  Plants 
(Diseases, Fungicides, Insecticides) Plumbing Books  Pottery (Architectural, Clays 
Decorating, Manufacture, Marks on)  Reinforced Concrete  Riveting (China 
Earthenware, Glassware)  Sanitary Engineering  Steam Turbines  Steel (Hardening 
Tempering)  Sugar  Sweetmeats  Toothed Gc!4ring  Vegetable Preserving  Wood 
Dyeing  X-Ray Work. 



COPIES OF ANY OF THESE LISTS WILL BE SENT 
POST FREE ON APPLICATION. 



(Paints, Colours, Pigments and 
Printing Inks.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OF PIGMENTS. By Ernest J, 
Parry, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C., F.C.S., and J. H. Coste, F.I.C, 
F.C.S. Demy 8vo. Five Illustrations. 285 pp. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home ; Us. 3d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF PAINT. A Practical 
Handbook for Paint Manufacturers, Merchants and Painters. 
By J. Cruickshank Smith, B.Sc. Demy 8vo. 

[New Edition in Preparation, 

DICTIONARY OF CHEMICALS AND RAW 
PRODUCTS USED IN THE MANUFACTURE 
OF PAINTS, COLOURS, VARNISHES AND 
ALLIED PREPARATIONS. By George H. Hurst, 

F.C.S. Demy 8vo. 380 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. 
home ; 8s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF LAKE PIGMENTS 
FROM ARTIFICIAL COLOURS. By Francis H. 
Jennison, F.I.C, F.C.S. Sixteen Coloured Plates, showingr 
Specimens of Eighty-nine Colours, specially prepared from 
the Recipes ^iven in the Book, 136 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 

7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home; 8s. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF MINERAL AND LAKE 
PIGMENTS. Containing Directions for the Manu- 
facture of all Artificial, Artists and Painters' Colours, Enamel, 
Soot and Metallic Pigments. A text-book for Manufacturers, 
Merchants, Artists and Painters. By Dr. Josef Bersch. 
Translated by A. C. Wright, M.A. (Oxon.), B.Sc. (Lond.). Forty- 
three Illustrations. 476 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

RECIPES FOR THE COLOUR, PAINT, VARNISH, 
OIL, SOAP AND DRYSALTERY TRADES. 

Compiled by An Analytical Chemist. 330 pp. Second Revised 
and Enlarged Edition. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, Us. home ; Us. 3d. abroad.) 

OILMEN'S SUNDRIES AND HOW TO MAKE THEM. 

Being a Collection of Practical Recipes for Boot Polishes, Blues, 
Metal Polishes, Disinfectants, etc., compiled from " Oils, Col- 
ours and Drysalteries ". Crown 8vo. 130 pages. Price 2s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 2s. 9d. home ; 2s. lOd. abroad.) 

OIL COLOURS AND PRINTERS' INKS. By Louis 

Edgar Andes. Translated from the German. 215 pp. Crown 
8vo. 56 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 
."^s. 6d. abroad.) 



MODERN PRINTING INKS. A Practical Handbook 
for Printing Ink Manufacturers and Printers. By Alfred Sey- 
mour. Demy 8vo. Six Illustrations. 90 pages. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THREE HUNDRED SHADES AND HOW TO MIX 
THEM. For Architects, Painters and Decorators. By 
A. Desaint, Artistic Interior Decorator of Paris. The book con- 
tains 100 folio Plates, measuring 12 in. by 7 in., each Plate con- 
taining specimens of three artistic shades. These shades are all 
numbered, and their composition and particulars for mixing are 
fully given at the beginning of the book. Each Plate is inter- 
leaved with grease-proof paper, and the volume is very artistic- 
ally bound in art and linen with the Shield of the Painters' Guild 
impressed on the cover in gold and silver. Price 21s. net. (Post 
free, 21s. 6d. home ; 22s, 6d. abroad.) 

HOUSE DECORATING AND PAINTING. By W. 

Norman Brown. Eighty-eight Illustrations. 150 pp. Crown 
8vo. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. 9d. home and abroad.) 

A HISTORY OF DECORATIVE ART. By W. Norman 

Brown. Thirty-nine Illustrations. 96 pp. Crown 8vo. Price 
Is. net. (Post free, Is. 3d. home and abroad.) 

WORKSHOP WRINKLES for Decorators, Painters, 
Paperhangers, and Others. By W. N. Brown. Crown 8vo. 
128 pp. Second Edition. Price 2s. 6d. net. (Post free, 2s. 9d. 
home ; 2s. lOd. abroad.) 

CASEIN. By Robert Scherer. Translated from the 
German by Chas. Salter. Demy 8vo. Illustrated. Second 
Revised English Edition. 160 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

SIMPLE METHODS FOR TESTING PAINTERS' 
MATERIALS. By A. C. Wright, M.A. (Oxon.), 
B.Sc. (Lond.). Crown 8vo. 160 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 
5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

IRON-CORROSION, ANTI-FOULING AND ANTI- 
CORROSIVE PAINTS. Translated from the German 

of Louis Edgar Andes. Sixty-two Illustrations. 275 pp. 
Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home; 
lis. 3d. abroad.) 

THE TESTING AND VALUATION OF RAW 
MATERIALS USED IN PAINT AND COLOUR 
MANUFACTURE. By M. W. Jones, F.C.S. A 

Book for the Laboratories of Colour Works. 88 pp. Crown 8vo. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home and abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List I, 



THE MANUFACTURE AND COMPARATIVE 
MERITS OP WHITE LEAD AND ZINC WHITE 
PAINTS. By G. Petit, Civil Engineer, etc. Trans- 
lated from the French. Crown 8vo. 100 pp. Price 4s. net. 
(Post free, 4s. 3d. home ; 4s. 4d. abroad.) 

STUDENTS' HANDBOOK OF PAINTS, COLOURS, 
OILS AND VARNISHES. By John Furnell. 

Crown 8vo. 12 Illustrations. 96 pp. Price 2s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 2s. 9d. home and abroad.) 

PREPARATION AND USES OF WHITE ZINC 
PAINTS. Translated from the French of P. Fleury. 

Crown 8vo. 280 pages. Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 4d. home ; 
6s. 6d. abroad.) [Just published. 



(Varnishes and Drying Oils.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF VARNISHES AND 
KINDRED INDUSTRIES. By J. Geddes McIntosh. 

Second, greatly enlarged, English Edition, in three Volumes, 
based on and including the work of Ach. Livache. 

Volume I. OIL CRUSHING, REFINING AND 
BOILING, THE MANUFACTURE OF LINO- 
LEUM, PRINTING AND LITHOGRAPHIC 
INKS, AND INDIA-RUBBER SUBSTITUTES. 

Demy 8vo. 150 pp. 29 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

Volume II. VARNISH MATERIALS AND OIL- 
VARNISH MAKING. Demy 8vo. 70 Illustrations. 
220 pp. Price 10s. 6J. net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home ; 
lis. 3d. abroad.) 

Volume III. SPIRIT VARNISHES AND SPIRIT 
VARNISH MATERIALS. Demy 8vo. Illustrated. 

464 pp. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 6d. 
abroad.) 

DRYING OILS, BOILED OIL AND SOLID AND 
LIQUID DRIERS. By L. E. AndMs. Expressly 
Written for this Series of Special Technical Books, and the 
Publishers hold the Copyright for English and Foreign Editions. 
Forty-two Illustrations. 342 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d, 
net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 3d. abroad.) 

(Analysis of Resins, see page 9.) 



6 

(Oils, Fats, Waxes, Greases, Petroleum.) 

LUBRICATING OILS, FATS AND GREASES : 

Their Origin, Preparation, Properties, Uses and Analyses. A 
Handbook for Oil Manufacturers, Refiners and Merchants, and 
the Oil and Fat Industry in General. By George H. Hurst, 
F.C.S. Third Revised and Enlarged Edition. Seventy-four 
Illustrations. 384 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, lis. home ; lis. 3d. abroad.) 

TECHNOLOGY OF PETROLEUM : Oil Fields of the 

World  Their History, Geography and Geology  Annual Pro- 
duction and Development  Oil-well Drilling  Transport. By 
Henry Neuberger and Henry Noalhat. Translated from the 
French by J. G. McIntosh. 550 pp. 153 Illustrations. 26 Plates. 
Super Royal 8vo. Price 21s. net. (Post free, 21s. 9d. home; 
23s. 6d. abroad.) 

MINERAL WAXES: Their Preparation and Uses. By 
Rudolf Gregorius. Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 
250 pp. 32 Illustrations. Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 4d. 
home ; 6s. 6.d. abroad.) 

THE PRACTICAL COMPOUNDING OF OILS, 
TALLOW And GREASE FOR LUBRICA- 
TION, ETC. By An Expert Oil Refiner. Second 
Edition. 100 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF LUBRICANTS, SHOE 
POLISHES AND LEATHER DRESSINGS. By 

Richard Brunner. Translated from the Sixth German Edition 
by Ch AS. Salter. 10 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 170 pp. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE OIL MERCHANTS' MANUAL AND OIL 
TRADE READY RECKONER. Compiled by 

Frank F. Sherriff. Second Edition Revised and Enlarged. 
Demy 8vo. 214 pp. With Two Sheets of Tables. Price 7s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. 3d. abroad.) 

ANIMAL FATS AND OILS: Their Practical Pro- 
duction, Purification and Uses for a great Variety of Purposes. 
Their Properties, Falsification and Examination. Translated 
from the German of Louis Edgar Andes. Sixty-two Illustrations. 
240 pp. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Demy 8vo. 
Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home; lis. 3d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List I. 



VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS: Their Practical 

Preparation, Purification and Employment for Various Purposes, 
their Properties, Adulteration and Examination. Translated 
from the German of Louis Edgar Andes. Ninety-four Illus- 
trations. 340 pp. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 1 1 s. home ; lis. 6d. abroad.) 

EDIBLE FATS AND OILS : Their Composition, iVIanu- 
facture and Analysis. By W. H. Simmons, B.Sc. (Lond.), and 
C. A. Mitchell, B.A. (Oxon.). Demy 8vo. 150 pp. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. 9d. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

(Essential Oils and Perfumes.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OF ESSENTIAL OILS AND 
ARTIFICIAL PERFUMES. By Ernest J. Parry, 

B.Sc. (Lond.), F.l.C, F.C.S. Second Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. 552 pp. 20 Illustrations. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Soap Manufacture.) 

SOAPS. A Practical Manual of the Manufacture of 
Domestic, Toilet and other Soaps. By George H. Hurst, F.C.S. 
2nd edition. 390 pp. b6 Illustrations. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

TEXTILE SOAPS AND OILS. Handbook on the 
Preparation, Properties and Analysis of the Soaps and Oils used 
in Textile Manufacturing, Dyeing and Printing. By George 
H. Hurst, F.C.S. Crown 8vo. 195 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE HANDBOOK OF SOAP MANUFACTURE 

By Wm. H. Simmons, B.Sc. (Lond.), F.C.S. and H. A. Appleton. 
Demy 8vo. 160 pp. 27 Illustrations. Price 8s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 8s. lOd. home ; 9s. abroad.) 

MANUAL OF TOILET SOAPMAKING, including 
Medicated Soaps Stain-removing Soaps, Metal Polishing Soaps, 
Soap Powders and Detergents. Translated from the German 
of Dr. C. Deite. Demy quarto. 150 pages. 79 Illustrations. 
Price ris. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 6J. abroad ) 

(Cosmetical Preparations.) 

COSMETICS: MANUFACTURE, EMPLOYMENT 
AND TESTING OF ALL COSMETIC 
MATERIALS AND COSMETIC SPECIALITIES. 

Translated from the German of Dr. Theodor Roller. Crown 
8vo. 2b2 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d.. 
abroad.) 



(Glue, Bone Products and Manures.) 

GLUE AND GLUE TESTING. By Samuel Rideal, 
D.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C. Fourteen Engravings. 144 pp. Demy 
8vo. Pricel0s.6d.net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home ; lis. abroad.) 

BONE PRODUCTS AND MANURES : An Account 

of the most recent Improvements in the Manulacture of Fat, 
Glue, Animal Charcoal, Size, Gelatine and Manures. By Thomas 
Lambert, Technical and Consulting Chemist. Second Revised 
Edition. Demy Svo. 172 pages. 17 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

{See also Chemical Manures, p, 9.) 

(Chemicals, Waste Products, etc.) 

REISSUE OF CHEMICAL ESSAYS OF C. W. 
SCHEELE. First Published in English in 1786. 
Translated from the Academy of Sciences at Stockholm, with 
Additions. 300 pp. Demy Svo. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 6d. 
home; 5s. 9d. abroad.) 

THE MANUFACTURE OF ALUM AND THE SUL- 
PHATES AND OTHER SALTS OF ALUMINA 
AND IRON. Their Uses and Applications as Mordants 
in Dyeing and Calico Printing, and their other Applications in 
the Arts Manufactures, Sanitary Engineering, Agriculture and 
Horticulture. Translated from the French of Lucien Gesch- 
wiND. 195 Illustrations. 400 pp. Royal Svo. Price 12s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

AMMONIA AND ITS COMPOUNDS: Their Manu- 
facture and Uses. By Camille Vi.vcent, Professor at the 
Central School of Arts and Manufactures, Paris. Translated 
from the French by M. J. Salter. Royal 8vo. 114 pp. Thirty- 
two Illustrations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home  
5s. 6d. abroad.) 

CHEMICAL WORKS: Their Design, Erection, and 
Equipment. By S. S. DvsoN and S. S. Clarkson. Royal Svo. 
220 pp. With 9 Folding Plates and (0 Illustrations. Price 21s. 
net. (Post free, 21s. 6d. home; 22s. abroad.) 

MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, as applied to 
the Assay of Fuels, Ores, Metals, Alloys, Salts and other Mineral 
Products. By E. Prost, D.Sc. Translated by J. Cruickshank 
Smith, B.Sc. Royal Svo. 300 pages. 44 Illustrations. Price 
12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13..;. home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

TESTING OF CHEMICAL REAGENTS FOR 
PURITY. Translated from the German of Dr. C 
Krauch. Royal Svo. 350 pages. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free 
13s. home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List I. 



SHALE OILS AND TARS and their Products. By 
Dr. W. ScHEiTHAUER. Translated from the German. Demy 8vo. 
190 pages. 70 Illustrations and 4 Diagrams. Price 8s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. lOd. home ; 9s. abroad). [jfust published. 

INDUSTRIAL ALCOHOL. A Practical; Manual on the 

Production and Use of Alcohol for Industrial Purposes and for 
Use as a Heating Agent, as an Illuminant and as a Source of 
Motive Power. By J. G. McIntosh, Lecturer on Manufacture 
and Applications of Industrial Alcohol at The Polytechnic, 
Regent Street, London. Demy 8vo. 1907. 250 pp. With 75 
Illustrations and 25 Tables. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. 9d. 
home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE UTILISATION OP WASTE PRODUCTS. A 

Treatise on the Rational Utilisation, Recovery and Treatment of 
Waste Products of all kinds. By Dr. Theodor Koller. Trans- 
lated from the Second Revised German Edition. Twenty-two 
Illustrations. Demy Svo. 280 pp. Price7s6d.net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home ; 8s. 3d. abroad.) 

ANALYSIS OF RESINS AND BALSAMS. Trans- 
lated from the German of Dr. Karl Dieterich. Demy 8vo. 
340 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home; 8s. 3d. 
abroad.) 

DISTILLATION OF RESINS, RESINATE LAKES 
AND PIGMENTS, CARBON PIGMENTS AND 
PIGMENTS FOR TYPEWRITING MACHINES, 
MANIFOLDERS, ETC. By Victor Schweizer. 
DemySvo. 185 pages. 68 Illustrations. Price7s.6d.net. (Post 
free, 8s. home ; 8s. 3d. abroad.) 

DISINFECTION AND DISINFECTANTS. By Dr. 

M.Christian. Crown Svo. [In the press. 

(Agricultural Chemistry and Manures.) 

MANUAL OF AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. By 

Herbert Ingle, F.l.C, Late Lecturer on Agricultural Chemistry, 
the Leeds University ; Lecturer in the Victoria University. 
Third and Revised Edition. 400 pp. 16 Illustrations. Demy 
Svo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; Ss. 6d. abroad.) 

[jfusf published. 

CHEMICAL MANURES. Translated from the French 
of J. Fritsch. DemySvo. Illustrated. 340 pp. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, Us. home ; lis. 6d. abroad.) 

{See also Bone Products and Manures, p. S.) 

(Writing Inks and Sealing Waxes.) 

INK MANUFACTURE: Including Writing, Copying, 
Lithographic, Marking, Stamping, and Laundry Inks. By 
SiGHUND Lehner. Three Illustrations. Crown Svo. 162 pp. 
Translated from the German of the Fifth Edition. Price 5s. net, 
|Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 



10 

SEALING WAXES, WAFERS AND OTHER 
ADHESIVES FOR THE HOUSEHOLD, OFFICE, 
WORKSHOP AND FACTORY. By H. C. Standage. 

Crown 8vo. 96 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 
5s. 4d. abroad.) 

(Lead Ores and Lead Compounds.) 

LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS. By Thos. Lambert, 
Technical and Consulting Chemist. Demy 8vo. 226 pp. Forty 
Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 
8s. 3d. abroad.) 

NOTES ON LEAD ORES : Their Distribution and Pro- 
perties. By Jas. Fairie, F.G.S. Crown 8vo. 64 pages. Price 
Is. net. (Post free, Is. 3d. home ; Is. 4d. abroad.) 

{White Lead and Zinc White Paints, see p. 5.) 

(Industrial Hygiene.) 

THE RISKS AND DANGERS TO HEALTH OF 
VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS AND THEIR PRE- 
VENTION. By Leonard A. Parry, M.D., B.Sc. 
(Lond.). 196 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 



(I 



[Industrial Uses of Air, Steam and 
Water.) 

DRYING BY MEANS OF AIR AND STEAM. Ex- 
planations, Formulae, and Tables for Use in Practice. Trans- 
lated from the German of E. Hausbrand. Two folding Diagrams 
and Thirteen Tables. Crown 8vo. 72 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 
(See also " Evaporating, Condensing and Cooling Apparatus," p. 19.) 

PURE AIR, OZONE AND WATER. A Practical 

Treatise of their Utilisation and Value in Oil, Grease, Soap, Paint, 
Glue and other Industries. By W. B. Cowell. Twelve Illus- 
trations. Crown 8vo. 85 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. 
home; 5s. 6d. abroad. ) 

THE INDUSTRIAL USES OF WATER. COMPOSI- 
TION EFFECTS TROUBLES REMEDIES 
RESIDUARY WATERS  PURIFICATION AN- 
ALYSIS. By H. DE LA Coux. Royal 8vo. Trans- 
lated from the French and Revised by Arthur IMorris. 364 pp. 
135 Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; 
lis. 6d. abroad.) 

[See Books on Smoke Prevention, Engineering and Metallurgy, p. 19, etc.) 
For contents of these books, see List III. 



11 
(X Rays.) 

PRACTICAL X RAY WORK. By Frank T. Addyman, 

B.Sc. (Lond.), F.I.C., Member of the Roentgen Society of London ; 
Radiographer to St. George's Hospital ; Demonstrator of Physics 
and Chemistry, and Teaclier of Radiography in St. George's 
Hospital Medical School. Demy 8vo. Twelve Plates from 
Photographs of X Ray Work. Filty-two Illustrations. 200 pp. 
Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home; lis. 3d. abroad.) 

(India=Rubber and Qutta Percha.) 

INDIA RUBBER AND GUTTA PERCHA. Second 

English Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Based on the French 
work of T. Seeligmann, G. Lahy Torrilhon and H. Falconnet 
by John Geddes McIntosh. Royal 8vo. 100 Illustrations. 400 
pages. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 6d. 
abroad.) 

(Leather Trades.) 

THE LEATHER WORKER'S MANUAL. Being a 

Compendium of Practical Recipes and Working Formulae for 
Curriers, Bootmakers, Leather Dressers, Blacking Manufac- 
turers, Saddlers, Fancy Leather Workers. By H. C. Standage. 
Demy 8vo. 165 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home; 
8s. abroad.) 

{See also Manufacture of Shoe Polishes, Leather Dressings, etc., p. 6.) 

(Pottery, Bricks, Tiles, Glass, etc.) 

MODERN BRICKMAKING. By Alfred B. Searle, 
Royal 8vo. 440 pages. 260 Illustrations. Price 12s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 13s. home; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE MANUAL OF PRACTICAL POTTING. Com- 
piled by Experts, and Edited by Chas. F. Binns. Third Edition, 
Revised and Enlarged. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 17s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 17s. lOd. home; 18s. 3d. abroad.) 

POTTERY DECORATING. A Description of all the Pro- 
cesses for Decorating Pottery and Porcelain. By R. Hainbach. 
Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 250 pp. Twenty- 
two Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 
8s. abroad.) 

A TREATISE ON CERAMIC INDUSTRIES. A 

Complete Manual for Pottery, Tile, and Brick Manufacturers. By 
Emile Bourry. a Revised Translation from the French, with 
some Critical Notes by Alfred B. Searle. Demy 8vo. 308 
Illustrations. 460 pp. Pricel23.6d.net. (Post free, 13s. home; 
13s. 6d. abroad.) 



12 
ARCHITECTURAL POTTERY. Bricks, Tiles, Pipes, 

Enamelled Terracottas, Ordinary and Incrusted Quarries, Stone- 
ware Mosaics, Faiences and Architectural Stoneware. By Leon 
LEFivRE. Translated from the French by K. H. Bird, M.A., 
and W. Moore Binns. With Five Plates. 950 Illustrations in 
the Text, and numerous estimates. 500 pp. Royal 8vo. Price 
15s. net. (Post free, I5s. 6d. home; 16s. 6d. abroad.) 

CERAMIC TECHNOLOGY: Being some Aspects of 
Technical Science as Applied to Pottery Manufacture. Edited 
. by Charles F. Binns. 100 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 12s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 12s. lOd. home ; 13s. abroad.) 

THE ART OF RIVETING GLASS, CHINA AND 
EARTHENWARE. By J. Howorth. Second 

Edition. Paper Cover. Price Is. net. (By post, home or abroad, 
Is. Id.) 

NOTES ON POTTERY CLAYS. The Distribution, 
Properties, Uses and Analyses of Ball Clays, China Clays and 
China Stone. By Jas. Fairie, F.G.S. 132 pp. Crown 8vo. 
Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. 9d. home ; 3s. lOd. abroad.) 

HOW TO ANALYSE CLAY. By H. M. Ashby. Demy 
8vo. 72 Pages. 20 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
3s. 9d. home ; 3s. lOd. abroad.) 

A Reissue of 
THE HISTORY OF THE STAFFORDSHIRE POT- 
TERIES ; AND THE RISE AND PROGRESS 
OF THE MANUFACTURE OF POTTERY AND 
PORCELAIN. With References to Genuine Specimens, 
and Notices of Eminent Potters. By Simeon Shaw. (Originally 
published in 1829.) 265 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home; 5s. 9d. abroad.) 

A Reissue of 

THE CHEMISTRY OF THE SEVERAL NATURAL 
AND ARTIFICIAL HETEROGENEOUS COM- 
POUNDS USED IN MANUFACTURING POR- 
CELAIN, GLASS AND POTTERY. By Simeon 

Shaw. (Originally published in 1837.) 750 pp. Royal 8vo. 
Price 10s. net. (Post free, 10s. 6d. home; 12s. abroad.) 

BRITISH POTTERY MARKS. By G. Woolliscroft 

Rhead. Demy 8vo. 310 pp. With over Twelve-hundred Illus- 
trations of Marks. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. home ; 
8s. 3d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List III. 



13 

(Glassware, Glass Staining and Painting.) 

RECIPES FOR FLINT GLASS MAKING. By a 

British Glass Master and Mixer. Sixty Recipes. Being Leaves 
from the Mixing Book of several experts in the Flint Glass Trade, 
containing up-to-date recipes and valuable information as to 
Crystal, Demi-crystal and Coloured Glass in its many varieties. 
It contains the recipes for cheap metal suited to pressing, blow- 
ing, etc., as well as the most costly crystal and ruby. Second 
Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lOs. 9d. 
home; 10s. lOd. abroad.) 

A TREATISE ON THE ART OF GLASS PAINT- 
ING, Prefaced with a Review of Ancient Glass. By 
Ernest R. Suffling. With One Coloured Plate and Thirty- 
seven Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 140 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 7s. lOd. home; 8s. abroad.) 

(Paper Making, Paper Dyeing, and 
Testing. ) 

THE DYEING OF PAPER PULP. A Practical 

Treatise for the use of PapermaUers, Paperstainers, Students 
and others. By Julius Erfurt, Manager of a Paper Mill. 
Translated into English and Edited with Additions by Julius 
HuBNER, F.C.S., Lecturer on Papermaking at the Manchester 
Municipal Technical School. With illustrations and 157 patterns 
Of paper dyed in the pulp. Royal 8vo, 180 pp. Price 15s. net. 
(Post free, 15s. 6d. home ; 16s. 6d. abroad). 

THE PAPER MILL CHEMIST. By Henry P. Stevens, 

M.A., Ph.D., F.I.C. Royal 12mo. 60 illustrations. 300 pp. 
Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. 9d. home ; 7s. lOd. abroad.) 

THE TREATMENT OF PAPER FOR SPECIAL 
PURPOSES. By L. E. Andes. Translated from the 
German. Crown 8vo. 48 Illustrations. 250 pp. Price 6s. net. 
(Post free, 6s. 4d. home ; 6s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Enamelling on Metal.) 

ENAMELS AND ENAMELLING. For Enamel 

Makers, Workers in Gold and Silver, and Manufacturers of 
Objects of Art. By Paul Randau. Second and Revised 
Edition. Translated from the German. With 16 Illustrations. 
Demy 8vo. 200 pp. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lOs. lOd. 
home; lis. abroad.) [Just published. 

THE ART OF ENAMELLING ON METAL. By 

W. Norman Brown. Twenty-eight Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 
60 pp. Price 2s. 6d. net. (Post free, 2s. 9d. home and abroad.) 



14 
(Textile and Dyeing Subjects.) 

THE FINISHING OF TEXTILE FABRICS (Woollen, 
Worsted, Union and other Cloths). By Roberts Beaumont, 
M.Sc, M.I. Mech.E., Professor of Textile Industries, the Univer- 
sity of Leeds ; Author of " Colour in Woven Design " ; " Woollen 
and Worsted Cloth Manufacture"; "Woven Fabrics at the 
World's Fair" ; Vice-President of the Jury of Award at the Paris 
E.xhibition, 1900; Inspector of Textile Institutes; Society of 
Arts Silver Medallist ; Honorary Medallist of the City and Guilds 
of London Institute. With 150 Illustrations of Fibres, Yarns 
and Fabrics, also Sectional and other Drawings of Finishing 
Machinery Demy 8vo. 260 pp. Pricel0s.6d.net. (Post free, 
10s. lOd. home; lis. 3d. abroad.) 

FIBRES USED IN TEXTILE AND ALLIED IN- 
DUSTRIES. By C. AiNswoRTH Mitchell, B.A. 
(Oxon.), F.l.C, and R. M. Prideaux, F.I.C. With 66 Illustra- 
tions specially drawn direct from the Fibres. Demy 8vo. 
200 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

DRESSINGS AND FINISHINGS FOR TEXTILE 
FABRICS AND THEIR APPLICATION. De- 
scription of all the Materials used in Dressing Textiles : Their 
Special Properties, the preparation of Dressings and their em- 
ployment in Finishing Linen, Cotton, Woollen and Silk Fabrics. 
Fireproof and Waterproof Dressings, together with the principal 
machinery employed. Translated from the Third German 
Edition of Friedrich Polleyn. Demy 8vo. 280 pp. Sixty 
Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 
8s. abroad.) 

THE CHEMICAL TECHNOLOGY OF TEXTILE 
FIBRES : Their Origin, Structure, Preparation, Wash- 
ing, Bleaching, Dyeing, Printing and Dressing. By Dr. Georg 
VON Georgievics. Translated from the German by Charles 
Salter. 320 pp. Forty-seven Illustrations. Royal Svo. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 3d. abroad.) 

POWER-LOOM WEAVING AND YARN NUMBER- 
ING, According to Various Systems, with Conversion 
Tables. Translated from the German of Anthon Gruner. With 
Twenty-Six Diagrams in Colours. 150 pp. Crown 8vo. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. 9d. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

TEXTILE RAW MATERIALS AND THEIR CON 
VERSION INTO YARNS. (The Study of the Raw 
Materials and the Technology of the Spinning Process.) ' By 
Julius Zipser. Translated from German by Charles Salter. 
302 Illustrations. 500 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, lis. home; lis. 6d. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List II. 



15 
GRAMMAR OF TEXTILE DESIGN. By H. Nisbet, 

Weaving and Designing Master, Bolton Municipal Technical 
School. Demy 8vo. 280 pp. 490 Illustrations and Diagrams. 
Price 6s. net. (Post free, 6s. 4d. home; 6s. 6d. abroad.) 

ART NEEDLEWORK AND DESIGN. POINT 
LACE. A Manual of Applied Art for Secondary Schools 
and Continuation Classes. By M. E. Wilkinson. Oblong 
quarto. With 22 Plates. Bound in Art Linen. Price 3s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 3s. lOd. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

HOME LACE-MAKING. A Handbook for Teachers and 
Pupils. By M. E. W. Milroy. Crown 8vo. 64 pp. With 3 
Plates and 9 Dragrams. Pricels.net. (Post free, Is. 3d. home.; 
Is. 4d. abroad.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OP HAT MANUFACTURING. 

Lectures delivered before the Hat Manufacturers' Association. 
By Watson Smith, F.C.S., F.LC. Revised and Edited by 
Albert Shonk. Crown 8vo. 132 pp. 16 Illustrations. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. 9d. home ; 7s. lOd. abroad.) 

THE TECHNICAL TESTING OF YARNS AND 
TEXTILE FABRICS. With Reference to Official 
Specifications. Translated from the German of Dr. J. Herzfeld. 
Second Edition. Sixty-nine Illustrations. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. 
Price lOs. 6d net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home; Us. abroad.) 

DECORATIVE AND FANCY TEXTILE FABRICS. 

By R. T. Lord. For Manufacturers and,_Designers of Carpets, 
Damask, Dress and all Textile Fabrics. 200 pp. Demy 8vo. 
132 Designs and Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad ) 

THEORY AND PRACTICE OF DAMASK WEAV- 
ING. By H. KiNZER and K. Walter. Royal 8vo. 
Eighteen Folding Plates. Six Illustrations. Translated from 
the German. 110 pp. PrIceSs.6d.net. (Post free, 9s. home; 
9s. 6d. abroad.) 

FAULTS IN THE MANUFACTURE OF WOOLLEN 
GOODS AND THEIR PREVENTION. By 

Nicolas Reiser. Translated from the Second German Edition, 
Crown 8vo. Sixty-three Illustrations. 170 pp. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

SPINNING AND WEAVING CALCULATIONS, 

especially relating to Woollens. From the German of N. 
Reiser. Thirty-four Illustrations. Tables. 160 pp. Dem. 
8vo. 1904. Pricel0s.6d.net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home ; Us. 
abroad.) 



16 
ANALYSIS OF WOVEN FABRICS. By A. F. Barker 

and E. Midgley. Demy 8vo. About 2C0 pages {In the press. 

WATERPROOFING OF FABRICS. By Dr. S. Mier- 

ziNSKi. Crown 8vo. 104 pp. 29 lUus. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 4d. abroad.) 

HOW TO MAKE A WOOLLEN MILL PAY. By 

John Mackie. Crown 8vo. 76 pp. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 3s. 9d. home; 3s. lOd. abroad.) 

YARN AND WARP SIZING IN ALL ITS 
BRANCHES. Translated from the German of Carl 
Kretschmar. Royal 8vo. 123 Illustrations. 150 pp. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, 10s. lOd. home; lis. abroad.) 
(For " Textile Soaps and Oils " see p. 7.) 

(Dyeing, Colour Printing, Matching 
and Dye = stuffs.) 

THE COLOUR PRINTING OF CARPET YARNS. 

Manual for Colour Chemists and Textile Printers. By David 
Paterson, F.C.S. Seventeen Illustrations. 136 pp. Demy 
8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR MIXING. A Manual 
intended for the use of Dyers, Calico Printers and Colour 
Chemists. By David Paterson, F.C.S. Forty-one Illustrations. 
Five Coloured Plates, and Four Plates showing: Eleven Dyed 

Specimens of Fabrics. 132 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

DYERS' MATERIALS : An Introduction to the Examina- 
tion, Evaluation and Application of the most important Sub- 
stances used in Dyeing, Printing, Bleaching and Finishing. By 
Paul Heerhan, Ph.D. Translated Irom the German by A. C. 
Wright, M.A. (Oxon)., B.Sc. (Lond.). Twenty-four Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo. 150 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 
5s. 6d. abroad.) 

COLOUR MATCHING ON TEXTILES. A Manual 

intended for the use of Students of Colour Chemistry, Dyeing and 
Textile Printing. By David Paterson, F.C.S. Coloured Frontis- 
piece. Twenty-nine Illustrations and Fourteen Specimens Of 
Dyed Fabrics. Demy 8vo. 132 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, 7s. lOd home; 8s. abroad.) 

COLOUR : A HANDBOOK OF THE THEORY OF 
COLOUR. By George H. Hurst, F.C.S. With Ten 
Coloured Plates and Seventy two Illustrations. 160 pp Demy 
8vo. Price 7s. (-'d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List II. 



17 

Reissue of 
THE ART OP DYEING WOOL, SILK AND 
COTTON. Translated from the French of M. Hellot, 
M. Macquer and M. le Pileur D'Apuony. First Published in 
English in 1789. Six Plates. Demy 8vo. 446 pp. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 6d. home; 6s. abroad.) 

THE CHEMISTRY OP DYE-STUFFS. By Dr. Georg 
Von Georgievics. Translated from the Second German Edition. 
412 pp. Demy 8vo. Pricel0s.6d.net. (Post free, lis. home; 
lis. 6d. abroad.) 

THE DYEING OF COTTON FABRICS : A Practical 
Handbook for the Dyer and Student. By Franklin Beech, 
Practical Colourist and Chemist. 272 pp. Forty-four Illus- 
trations of Bleaching and Dyeing Machinery. Demy 8vo. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 73. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE DYEING OP WOOLLEN FABRICS. By 

Frankhn Beech, Practical Colourist and Chemist. Thirty- 
three Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 228 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

(Silk Manufacture.) 

SILK THROWING AND WASTE SILK SPIN- 
NING. By HoLLiNS Rayner. Demy 8vo. 170 pp. 
117Illus. Price5s.net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Bleaching and Bleaching Agents.) 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE BLEACHING 
OF LINEN AND COTTON YARN AND FABRICS. 

By L. Tailfer, Chemical and Mechanical Engineer. Trans- 
lated from the French by John Geddes McIntosh. Demy 8vo. 
303 pp. Twenty lUus. Price 125. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. 
home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

MODERN BLEACHING AGENTS AND DETER- 
GENTS. By Professor Max Bottler. Translated 
from the German. Crown 8vo. 16 Illustrations. 160 pages. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Cotton Spinning, Cotton Waste and 
Cotton Combing.) 

COTTON SPINNING (First Year). By Thomas 

Thornley, Spinning Master, Bolton Technical School. 160 pp. 
Eighty-four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Second Impression, 
Price 3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 4d. home; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 

COTTON SPINNING (Intermediate, or Second Year). 
By Thomas Thornley. Second Impression. 180 pp. Seventy 
Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. 
home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 



18 

COTTON SPINNING (Honours, or Third Year). By 
Thomas Thornley. 216 pp Seventy-four Illustrations. 
Crown Svo. Second Edition. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. 
home; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

COTTON COMBING MACHINES. By Thos. Thorn- 
ley, Spinning Master, Technical School, Bolton. Demy Svo. 
117 Illustrations. 300 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 8s. 
home ; 8s. 6d. abroad.) 

COTTON WASTE : Its Production, Characteristics 
Regulation, Opening, Carding, Spinning and Weaving. By Thomas 
Thornley. Demy Svo. 286 pages. 60 Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) l^iist published. 

THE RING SPINNING FRAME : GUIDE FOR 
OVERLOOKERS AND STUDENTS. By N. Booth. 

Crown 8vo. 76 pages. Price3s.net. (Post free, 3s. 3d. home; 
3s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Flax, Hemp and Jute Spinning.) 

MODERN FLAX, HEMP AND JUTE SPINNING 
AND TWISTING. A Practical Handbook for the use 
of Flax, Hemp and Jute Spinners, Thread, Twine and Rope 
Makers. By Herbert R. Carter, Mill Manager, Textile Expert 
and Engineer, Examiner in Flax Spinning to the City and Guilds 
of London Institute. Demy Svo. 1907. With 92 Illustrations. 
200 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. 9d. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

(Collieries and Mines.) 

RECOVERY WORK AFTER PIT FIRES. By Robert 

Lamprecht, Mining Engineer and Manager. Translated from 
the German. Illustrated by Six large Plates, containing Seventy- 
six Illustrations. IT'I pp. Demy Svo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free. 10s. lOd. home; lis. abroad.) 

VENTILATION IN MINES. By Robert Wabner, 
Mining Engineer. Translated from the German. Royal Svo. 
Thirty Plates and Twenty-two Illustrations. 240 pp. Price 
10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 3d. abroad.) 

HAULAGE AND WINDING APPLIANCES USED 
IN MINES. By Carl Volk. Translated from the 
German. Royal Svo. With Six Plates and 14S Illustrations. 
150 pp. Price Ss. 6d. net. (Post free, 9s. home ; 9s. 3d. abroad.) 

THE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT OF COLLIERIES. 

By W. Galloway Duncan, Electrical and Mechanical Engineer, 
Member of the Institution of Mining Engineers, Head of the 
Government School of Engineering, Dacca, India; and David 
Penman, Certificated Colliery Manager, Lecturer in Mining to 
Fife County Committee. Demy Svo. 310 pp. 155 Illustrations 
and Diagrams. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 3d. 
abroad.) 



For contents of these books, sec Lists II aud III. 



Id 

(Dental Metallurgy.) 

DENTAL METALLURGY: MANUAL FOR STU- 
DENTS AND DENTISTS. By A. B. Griffiths, 

Ph.D. Demy 8vo. Thirty-six Illustrations. 200 pp. Price 
7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home; 8s. abroad.) 

(Engineering, Smoke Prevention and 
Metallurgy.) 

THE PREVENTION OF SMOKE. Combined with 
the Economical Combustion of Fuel. By W. C. Popplewell, 
H.Sc, A.M. Inst., C.E., Consulting Engineer. Forty-six Illus- 
trations. 190 pp. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
7s. lOd. home ; 8s. 3d. abroad.) 

GAS AND COAL DUST FIRING. A Critical Review 
of the Various Appliances Patented in Germany for this purpose 
since 1885. By Albert PCtsch. 130 pp. Demy 8vo. Trans- 
lated from the German. With 103 Illustrations. Price 5s. net. 
(Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE HARDENING AND TEMPERING OF STEEL 
IN THEORY AND PRACTICE. By Fridolin 

Reiser. Translated from the German of the Third Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 120 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 
5s. 4d. abroad.) 

SIDEROLOGY: THE SCIENCE OF IRON (The 

Constitution of Iron Alloys and Slags). Translated from 
German of Hanns Freiherr v. Juptner. 350 pp. Demy Svo. 
Eleven Plates and Ten Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
free, Us. home; lis. 6d. abroad.) 

EVAPORATING, CONDENSING AND COOLING 
APPARATUS. Explanations, Formula; and Tables 
for Use in Practice. By E. Hausbrand, Engineer. Translated 
by A. C. Wright, M.A. (Oxon.), B.Sc, (Lond.). With Twenty- 
one Illustrations and Seventy-six Tables. 400 pp Demy Svo. 
Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 6d. abroad.) 

(The "Broadway" Series of Engineering 
Handbooks.) 

One Uniform Size : Narrow Crown Svo. (Pocket Size.) 
Volume I. ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF RE- 
INFORCED CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION. By 

EwART S. Andrews, B.Sc. Eng. (Lond.). 200 pages. With 57 
Illustrations. Numerous Tables and Worked Examples. Price 
3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 3d. home ; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 

Volume II. GAS AND OIL ENGINES. By A. 

KiRSCHKE. Translated and Revised from the German, and 
adapted to English practice. 160 pages. 55 Illustrations. 
Price 3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 3d. home ; 3s. 6d. abroad.) 



20 

Volume III.  IRON AND STEEL CONSTRUC- 
TIONAL WORK. By K. Schindler. Translated 
and Revised from the German, and adapted to English 'practice. 
140 pages. 115 Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post iree, 
3s. 9d. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume IV. TOOTHED GEARING. By G. T. White, 
B.Sc. (Lond.). 220 pages. 136 Illustrations, Price3s.6d.net. 
(Post free, 3s. 9d. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

Volume V. STEAM TURBINES : Their Theory and 
Construction. By H. Wilda. Translated and Revised from the 
German, and adapted to English practice. 200 pages. 104 Illus- 
trations. Price 3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. 9d. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

Ijfjist published. 

Volume VI.  CRANES AND HOISTS. By H. 
Wilda. [In the press 

Volume VII.  FOUNDRY MACHINERY. By E, 
Treiber. [In the press. 

Volume VIII. THE CALCULUS FOR ENGINEERS. 
By EwART S. Andrews, B.Sc. Eng. (Lond.), and H. Bryon 
Heywood, B.Sc. (Lond.). [In preparation. 

Volume IX. ILLUMINATION AND LIGHTING. 

By A. Blok, B.Sc. [In preparation. 

Volume X.  MOTOR CAR MECHANISM. By 

W. E. DOiMMETT. [In preparation. 

(Sanitary Plumbing, Electric Wiring, 
Metal Work, etc.) 

EXTERNAL PLUMBING WORK. A Treatise on 
Lead Work for Roofs. By John W. Hart, R.P.C. 180 Illustra- 
tions. 272 pp. Demy 8vo. Second Edition Revised. Price 
7s. 6d, net. (Post tree. 7s. lOd. home; 8s. abroad.) 

HINTS TO PLUMBERS ON JOINT WIPING, PIPE 
BENDING AND LEAD BURNING. Third Edition, 
Revised and Corrected, By John W. Hart, R.P.C. 184 Illus- 
trations. 313 pp. Demy 8vo, Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 
8s. home; 8s. i~d. abroad.) 

SANITARY PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE. By 

John W. Hart. Demy 8vo. With 208 Illustrations. 250 pp. 
1904. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

ELECTRIC WIRING AND FITTING. By Sydney F. 

Walker, R.N., M.I.E.E., M.I.Min.E., A.M.Inst.C.E., etc., etc. 
Crown 8vo. 150 pp. With Illustrations and Tables. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF DIPPING, 
BURNISHING, LACQUERING AND BRONZ- 
ING BRASS WARE. By W. Norman Brown. 48 

pp. Crown Svo. Price 3s. net. (Post free, 3s. 3d. home and 
abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List III. 



21 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INCANDESCENT 
ELECTRIC LAMP. By G. Basil Barham, A.M.I.E.E. 

Demy 8vo. 200 pages. 2 Plates 25 Illustrations and 10 Tables. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

[y list published. 

WIRING CALCULATIONS FOR ELECTRIC 
LIGHT AND POWER INSTALLATIONS. A 

Practical Handbook containing Wiring Tables, Rules, and 
Formulje for the Use of Architects, Engineers, Mining Engineers, 
and Electricians, Wiring Contractors and Wiremen, etc. By G. 
W. LuMMis Paterson. Crown 8vo. 96 pages. 35 Tables. 
Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

\Just published. 

A HANDBOOK ON JAPANNING. For Ironware, 
Tinware, and Wood, etc. By William Norman Brown. 
Second Edition. 70 pages. 13 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Price 
3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. 9d. home ; 4s. abroad.) 

lyust published. 

THE PRINCIPLES OF HOT WATER SUPPLY. By 

John W. Hart, R.P.C. With 129 Illustrations. 177 pp. Demy 
8vo. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. home ; 8s. abroad.) 

(Brewing and Botanical.) 

HOPS IN THEIR BOTANICAL, AGRICULTURAL 
AND TECHNICAL ASPECT, AND AS AN 
ARTICLE OF COMMERCE. By Emmanuel Gross, 

Professor at the Higher Agricultural College, Tetschen-Liebwerd. 
Translated from the German. Seventy-eiaht Illustrations. 340 
pp. Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post free, lis. home ; 
lis. 6d. abroad.) 

INSECTICIDES, FUNGICIDES AND WEED- 
KILLERS. By E. Bourcart, D.Sc. Translated from 
the French. Revised and Adapted to British Standards and 
Practice. Demy 8vo. 450 pages, 83 Tables, and 12 illustrations. 
Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. home ; 13s. 6d. abroad.) 

(For Agricultural Chemistry, see p. g ) [jfust published. 

(Wood Products, Timber and Wood 
Waste.) 

WOOD PRODUCTS : DISTILLATES AND EX- 
TRACTS. By P. DoMESNY, Chemical Engineer, 
Expert before the Lyons Commercial Tribunal, IHember of the 
International Association of Leather Chemists; and J. Noyer. 
Translated from the French by Donald Grant. Royal 8vo. 
320 pp. 103 Illustrations and Numerous Tables. Price 10s. 6d. 
net. (Post free, lis. home; lis. 6d. abroad) 

TIMBER : A Comprehensive Study of Wood in all its 
Aspects (Commercial and Botanical), showing the different 
Applications and Uses of Timber in Various Trades, etc. Trans- 
lated from the French of Paul Charpentier. Royal 8vo. 437 
pp. 178 Illustrations. Price 12s. 6d. net. (Post free, 13s. 
home; 14s. abroad.) 



22 

THE UTILISATION OP WOOD WASTE. Trans- 
lated from the German of Ernst Hubbard. Crown 8vo. 192 
pp. Fifty Illustrations. Price5s.net. (Post free, 5s. 4d home ; 
5s. 6d. abroad.) 

(See also Utilisation of Waste Products, p. 9.) 

(Building: and Architecture.) 

ORNAMENTAL CEMENT WORK. By Oliver 

Wheatley. Demy 8vo. 83 Illustrations. 128 pp. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

THE PREVENTION OP DAMPNESS IN BUILD- 
INGS ; with Remarks on the Causes, Nature and 
Effects of Saline, Efflorescences and Dry-rot, for Architects, 
Builders, Overseers, Plasterers, Painters and House Owners. 
By Adolf Wilhelm Keim. Translated from the German of the 
second revised Edition by M. J. Salter, F.I.C, F.C.S. Eight 
Coloured Plates and Thirteen Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 115 
pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. od. home ; 5s. 4d. abroad.) 

HANDBOOK OP TECHNICAL TERMS USED IN 
ARCHITECTURE AND BUILDING, AND THEIR 
ALLIED TRADES AND SUBJECTS. By Augus- 
tine C. Passmore. Demy 8vo. 380 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. 
(Post free, 8s. home ; 8s. 6d. abroad.) 

(Foods, Drugs and Sweetmeats.) 

POOD AND DRUGS. By E. J. Parry, B.Sc, F.I.C, F.C.S. 

Volume I. The Analysis of Food and Drugs (Chemical and 
Microscopical). Royal 8vo. 724 pp. Price 21s. net. (Post 
free, 21s. 6d. home ; 22s. 6d. British Colonies; 23s. 3d. other 
Foreign Countries.) 

Volume II. The Sale of Food and Drugs Acts, 1875-1907. 
Royal 8yo. 184 pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. lOd. 
home ; 8s. abroad.) 

THE MANUPACTURE OF PRESERVED POODS 
AND SWEETMEATS. By A. Hausner. With 

Twenty-eight Illustrations. Translated from the German of the 
third enlarged Edition. Second English Edition. Crown 8vo. 225 
pp. Price 7s. 6d. net. (Post free, 7s. 9d. home ; 7s. lOd. abroad.) 

RECIPES POR THE PRESERVING OP PRUIT, 
VEGETABLES AND MEAT. By E. Wagner. 

Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 125 pp. With 14 
Illustrations. Price5s.net. (Post free, 5s. 3d, home; 5s. 4d. 
abroad.) 

For contents of these books, see List III. 



23 

(Dyeing Fancy Goods.) 

THE ART OF DYEING AND STAINING MARBLE, 
ARTIFICIAL STONE, BONE, HORN, IVORY 
AND WOOD, AND OF IMITATING ALL SORTS 
OF WOOD. A Practical Handbook for the Use of 

Joiners, Turners, Manufacturers of- Fancy Goods, Stick and 
Umbrella Makers, Comb Makers, etc. Translated from the 
German of D. H. Soxhlet, Technical Chemist. Crown 8vo. 
168 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 4d. abroad.) 

(Celluloid.) 

CELLULOID : Its Raw Material, iVIanufacture, Properties 
and Uses. A Handbook for Manufacturers of Celluloid and 
Celluloid Articles, and all Industries using Celluloid ; also for 
Dentists and Teeth Specialists. By Dr. Fr. Bockmann, Tech- 
nical Chemist. Translated from the Third Revised German 
Edition. Grown 8vo. 120 pp. With 49 Illustrations, Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 4d. abroad.) 

(Lithography, Printing and 
Engraving.) 

PRACTICAL LITHOGRAPHY. By Alfred Seymour. 

Demy 8vo. With Frontispiece and 33 Illus. 120 pp. Price 5s. 
net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

PRINTERS' AND STATIONERS' READY 
RECKONER AND COMPENDIUM. Compiled by 
Victor Graham. Crown 8vo. 112 pp. 1904. Price3-i.6d.net. 
(Post free, 3s. 9d. home ; 3s. lOd. abroad.) 

ENGRAVING FOR ILLUSTRATION. HISTORI- 
CAL AND PRACTICAL NOTES. By J. Kirkbride. 

72 pp. Two Plates and 6 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Price 
2s. 6d. net. (Post free, 2s. 9d. home ; 2s. lOd. abroad ) 
(For Printing Inks, see p. 4.) 

(Bookbinding.) 

PRACTICAL BOOKBINDING. By Paul Adam. 

Translated from the German. Crown 8vo. 180 pp. 127 Illus- 
trations. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad. 

(Sugar Refining.) 

THE TECHNOLOGY OF SUGAR: Practical Treatise 
on the Modern Methods of Manufacture of Sugar from the Sugar 
Cane and Sugar Beet. By John Geddes McIntosh. Second 
Revised and Enlarged Edition. Demy 8vo. Fully Illustrated. 
436 pp. Seventy-six Tables. 1906. Price 10s. 6d. net. (Post 
tree, lis. home ; lis. 6d. abroad.) 

(See " Evaporating, Condensing, etc.. Apparatus,'' p. 19.) 



24 

(Emery.) 

EMERY AND THE EMERY INDUSTRY. Trans- 
lated from the German of A. Haenig. Crown 8vo. 45 Illustra- 
tions. 104 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post free, 5s. 3d. home ; 5s. 6d. 
abroad.) 

(Libraries and Bibliography.) 

CLASSIFIED GUIDE TO TECHNICAL AND COM- 
MERCIAL BOOKS. Compiled by Edgar Green- 
wood. Demy 8vo. 224 pp. 1904. Being a Subject-list of the 
Principal British and American Books in Print; giving Title, 
Author, Size, Date, Publisher and Price. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 

HANDBOOK TO THE TECHNICAL AND ART 
SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES OF THE UNITED 
KINGDOM. Containing particulars of nearly 1,000 
Technical, Commercial and Art Schools throughout the United 
Kingdom. With full particulars of the courses of instruction, 
names of principals, secretaries, etc. Demy 8vo. 150 pp. Price 
3s. 6d. net. (Post free, 3s. lOd. home; 4s. abroad.) 

THE LIBRARIES, MUSEUMS AND ART GAL- 
LERIES YEAR BOOK, 1910-11. Being the Third 

Edition of Greenwood's " British Library Year Book". Edited 
by Alex. J. Philip. Demy 8vo. 286 pp. Price 5s. net. (Post 
free, 5s. 4d. home ; 5s. 6d. abroad.) 



THE PLUMBING, HEATING AND LIGHTING 
ANNUAL FOR 1911. The Trade Reference Book 
for Plumbers, Sanitary, Heating and Lighting Engineers, 
Builders' Merchants, Contractors and Architects. Including 
the translation of Hermann Recknagel's " Kalender fiir Gesund- 
heits - Techniker," Handbook for Heating, Ventilating, and 
Domestic Engineers, of which Scott, Greenwood & Son have 
purchased the sole right for the English Language. Quarto, 
Bound in cloth and gilt lettered. Price 3s. net. (Post free, 
3s. 4d. home ; 3s. 8d, abroad.) 



SCOTT, GREENWOOD & SON, 

a;ecbntcal Mook anO UraOe Journal ubllsbers, 

8 Broadway, Ludgate, London, E.G. 

Telegraphic Address, " Printeries, Cent. -London". April, 1913. 



