


fe-IM 



HOUSE- 
KEEPERS 

WEEK 



MARION 
HARLAN D 



"iiiiii.^.. 



;23J 







! 







J5eto gorfe 

£5>tate College of Agriculture 

at Cornell SHmbensitp 

St&aca. iS. jf. 



^ 



lUferarp 



.£......^r^„. 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003548124 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 




MARION HARLAND 



THE 

Housekeeper's Week 



BY 

MARION HARLAND 

AUTHOR OF 
COMPLETE COOK BOOK AND EVERYDAY ETIQUETTE 



ILLUSTRATED FROM PHOTOGRAPHS BY 

MARY TAYLOR 

WITH FRONTISPIECE-PORTRAIT OP THE AUTHOB*'' ., ' ' t 

• "st' 

r \ '<* 



INDIANAPOLIS 

THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 



Copyright 1908 
The Bobbs-Merrill Company 



August 






CLf/s-fC " 



PRESS OF 

BRAUNWORTH & CO. 

BOOKBINDERS AND PRINTER8 

BROOKLYN, -N. Y. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 

HER HOUSE IN ORDER 

PAGE 

General lack of preparation for the business of housekeeping. 
The value of planned housekeeping. Subjects upon which the 
housekeeper should be informed: (1) Household expenditure or 
the proper division of income. (2) The culinary department. 
(3) How to keep a house and its furnishings clean and in order. 
Effect upon family life of attractive environment. The week as 
typifying the unit of work in relation to the house .... 1 

CHAPTER II 

Monday: wash-day 

Set tubs. Wringer. Putting clothes in soak. Taking out 
stains before washing and the use of detersives. How to wash 
flannels. Treatment of ginghams, calicoes, colored cottons and 
linens 10 

CHAPTER III 

Monday (Continued) : starching and bluing 

The use of bluing. Getting clothes ready to hang out. Proper 
way to make starch.- Dipping the pieces. Care of the line, and 
of clothes-pins. Drying colored clothes. Sprinkling and folding 
for ironing-day ........ :., .. :.i i.: ;« :.: i.. 21 

CHAPTER IV 

Monday (Continued) : devices fob making Washing easy 

Value of borax and kerosene. Javelle water and a recipe for 
making. Recipe for soap powder. Home-made bluing. Starch 
that will not stick to the irons. Scraps of soap and their use. 
Paraffin as a cleansing agent. A gasoline emulsion for washing 30 

■ 

1 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER V 
Monday (Continued) : woolens, colored cottons and linens 

PAGE 

Cold water process for flannels. Recipe for washing and dry- 
ing blankets. Prevention of shrinkage in flannels. Care of 
woolen stockings. Preparations for cleaning colored cottons and 
linens. Setting the color 41 

CHAPTER VI 
Monday (Concluded) : silks, black, colored and white 

The old black silk and its renovation. Washing fast-colored 
silks. Treatment of wash silk. To wash white and colored rib- 
bons. To clean a dark-colored woolen skirt. Soap-bark as a 
cleanser. Domestic cleaning versus professional cleaning . . 52 

CHAPTER VII 

TUESDAY: IRONING-DAY 

Assisting the maid on ironing-day. Table for ironing sheets 
and table-cloths. Covering for ironing table and board. Trivet 
on which to set iron. Devices for keeping irons clean and free 
from rust. Sorting the clothes. Ironed and unironed sheets. 
Disposal of clothes from the laundry 63 

CHAPTER VIII 

WEDNESDAY: BAKING-DAY 

The home-made loaf vs. " bakers' bread." Old-fashioned yeast- 
making. Compressed yeast. A recipe for hop yeast. For potato 
yeast. Home-made yeast cakes 74 

CHAPTER IX 

Wednesday (Concluded) : bread-making 

The way to test flour. To overcome faulty seasoning in flour. 
Ingredients and method of making potato sponge bread. The 
kneading board. Preparing oven. Treatment of loaves when 
taken from the oven. Directions for making milk bread. Some 
rules for quick breads. When to use baking soda 84 

ii 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER X 

THURSDAY: DETERSIVES 

PAGE 

Stains and detersives generally considered. To remove ink 
spots. Taking out rust stains. Removing spots from linen. 
Method with coffee, tea and fruit stains. Heroic treatment for 
fruit stains. Mildew and iron mold. How to treat axle-grease 
stains and spots made by paint, tar, pitch, sticky fly-paper. How 
to treat " a scorch." Perspiration stains 96 

CHAPTER XI 
Thursday (Continued) : on cleansing non-washable 

ARTICLES OF DRESS 

The use of gasoline. Benzine and its uses. Dry cleaning. 
On cleaning lamb's wool and white fur, linen and lace, embroidered 
handkerchiefs, cravats, scarfs, centerpieces and fine doilies. To 
clean velvet and corduroy, also felt hats. How to clean furs at 
home. Various ways of cleaning gloves and slippers . . . 114 

CHAPTER XII 
Thursday (Concluded) : odds and ends of renovating 

To clean white and light-colored leather. To prevent low shoes 
blistering the heel. To clean various kinds of hats. Soot marts 
and their remedy. Egg stains. To clean a feather boa and os- 
trich plumes. Renovating feather pillows. Cleaning chiffon. To 
remove the shine from cloth and silk. Restoring ecru laces. To 
set colors. Cleaning jet passementerie and jewelry with stones 
in it. Taking varnish out of cloth 128 

CHAPTER XIII 

FRIDAY: HOUSEHOLD PESTS, VERMIN 

Nature of moths, and general directions for keeping them 
out of the house. How to get rid of silver-moths and buffalo 
beetles. What to do with a moth-infected rug. To remove moths 
from furniture. Moths in carpet. To get rid of fleas. For 
ants, red and black. Book-worms 146. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XIV 
Friday (Concluded) : other household pests 

PAGE 

Roaches and water-bugs. The common kitchen species. The 
water-bug or croton-bug. How to get rid of these. Mosquitoes 
and how to guard against them. Rules for keeping flies out of 
the house, and away from horses. How to rid the house of rats 
and mice. Invasions of caterpillars, aphidas, rose beetles. How 
to kill vermin in the hair. How to fight bedbugs .... 162 

CHAPTER XV 

SATURDAY: FLOORS, WALLS AND THEIR COVERINGS 

Care of carpets. Advice as to buying floor coverings. To 
keep light-weight rugs from turning at the corners. To dry- 
clean rugs. To wash oriental rugs. How to sweep a carpet. 
Use of carpet-sweeper. To restore color to carpet. For scrub- 
bing a carpet. When and where to use matting. Linoleum and 
oil-cloth. Wooden floors. How to keep them clean, polished, 
varnished or waxed. To remove paint stains from a floor. To 
remove spots on kalsomine. To clean wall paper. To remove 
paper from wall. A recipe for government whitewash. Burlap 
as a wall covering and how to clean it 181 

CHAPTER XVI 
Saturday (Continued) : windows and furniture 

Care of windows and mirrors. How to clean polished furni- 
ture. To get rid of white spots on furniture. Home-made fur- 
niture polish. How to make varnish stay smooth. How to wax 
tables. How to clean oil paintings and gilt frames. How to 
regild. How to care for mattresses. Care of feather pillows. 
To wash down duvets and comfortables. Care of brass bedstead 
and lacquered goods. Care of enameled bed 208 

CHAPTER XVII 
Saturday (Continued) : various household furnishings 

Situation of bath-room. How to keep pipes clean and free. 
To clean the bath-tub, bowl, etc. To clean marble. To clean 

iv 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XVII, Continued 

PAGE 

sponges. Polish for faucets and other bath-room trimmings. 
Something about soap. How to clean alabaster, mother-of-pearl, 
marble and plaster figures, glass globes, bottles and candlesticks. 
To clean a sewing-machine. Care of the piano. Book shelves 
and how to care for them. Care of the kitchen sink. Care of 
the range. Of stove-pipes. Home-made stove-polish. To clean 
zinc. Care of kitchen utensils. Odds and ends of kitchen lore 228 

CHAPTER XVIII 
Saturday (Concluded) : silver, china and glass 

How to keep silver clean without the weekly polishing. Bright- 
ening dull silver. To prevent silver tarnish. Care of brasses. 
How to wash china and glass. Lamp chimneys. To loosen a 
glass stopper 252 

CHAPTER XIX 

EVERT DAY IN THE WEEK 

Eternal vigilance the price of good housekeeping. Success 
without worry. Varying conditions of labor in various families. 
Type-written chart of daily and weekly duties. A good daily 
program of work. How to dust. Laying the table. When to 
use table-cloth. When to use table mats. Elementary rules for 
serving at dinner 262 

CHAPTER XX 

ANY DAY IN THE WEEK: MARKETING AND BUYING THE 
WINTER SUPPLIES 

Buying ahead. Selection of meat. Cheap and expensive cuts. 
Pilling the store-closet for the winter months. Groceries and 
department stores. Care of green vegetables. Buying milk, but- 
ter and eggs. Buying the every-day china 275 



Y 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XXI 

SEWING AND "MENDING DAT 

PAQE 

A regular mending day a necessity. The sewing room. One to 
make ready. Character and quality of implements necessary for 
sewing. How to thread a needle. Darning. Patching. Ripping 289 

CHAPTER XXII 

ACCORDING TO THE SEASON 

Why house-cleaning is easier than it used to be. House-cleaning 
once a year. Why the autumn is better than the spring for the 
annual cleaning. Where to begin the task. Program for the 
work. Order in which a bedroom should be cleaned. Housekeep- 
ing in summer. How to make a house ready for closing. Sum- 
mer vacation housekeeping. Rules for canning fruit .... 301 

CHAPTER XXIII 

THE TEMPLE OP THE BODY 

Sacredness of the body. Rules for its care. Act of breath- 
ing and breathing exercises. Helpful gymnastics for daily prac- 
tice. The bath. How to increase one's height. Proper conditions 
of the sleeping room. Proper amount of sleep. Remedies for 
insomnia, for nightmare and snoring. Making over the tired and 
nervous woman 312 

CHAPTER XXIV 

DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDICA 

Dangers of the home medicine chest. The study of diet. Spe- 
cific curative properties in foods. Of fruits. Of vegetables. 
Meats and their health values. Mastication of food. Effect upon 
the system of eating eggs. Dyspepsia and its causes. Some 
serviceable simples 331 

CHAPTER XXV 

DOMESTIC SURGERY AND COGNATE MATTERS 

Burns and scalds. Formula for rendering clothing and curtains 
fire-proof. Frost bites. Snake and other poisonous bites. How 

vi 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XXV, Continued 

PAGE 

to care for a crushed finger or toe. Sprains. For a choked child. 
For sunburn. For earache. Care of the eyes and of the feet. 
For poisons of the skin. Specifics in management of wasp, bee 
and hornet stings. A cure for hives. For prickly heat. Warts 
and their treatment. To prevent vomiting after the use of ether 
or chloroform 351 

CHAPTER XXVI 

THE CAEE OP THE SICK 

Why girls should be taught rudimentary principles of nursing. 
Kind of room best suited to an invalid. Necessary furnishings. 
Light. Fresh air. Manner of ventilation. Cleaning the sick- 
room. Flowers in the sick-room. Extra blankets. The hot- 
water bag. Changing sheets while the patient is in the bed. 
Visitors in the sick-room. Value of cheerfulness in the care of 
the sick 370 



CHAPTER XXVII 

AFTERMATH: MISCELLANEOUS HINT8 

Additional matter in reference to cooking, putting up fruit, care 
of metals, of textiles, of glassware. Rules for sweeping and 
dusting, for dyeing, for transferring prints or photographs. Care 
of plants. Simple remedies to be used in the sick-room . . . 382 



Vll 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

CHAPTER I 

HEK HOUSE IN ORDER 

Thai there is a distinct body of knowledge to be 
mastered before housekeeping can be understood in- 
telligently is appreciable only by the minority of 
American housekeepers. Many of us begin house- 
keeping handicapped by a lack of knowledge and by 
a lack of experience in the practical side of the busi- 
ness. To most of us the duties involved in the ex- 
periment of housekeeping assume at first a chaotic 
and unsystematized shape. Each day arrives with 
its tangle of fresh and seemingly unrelated perplexi- 
ties to be solved from hour to hour. That which 
might give dignity and interest to the business, — a 
plan for the day, the week, the year, — is absent. Oc- 
casionally one meets a young woman entering upon 
the task of housekeeping, which is, after all is said 
and done, a woman's business and profession par 
excellence, with a mind trained to some conception of 
the issues involved and with enough practical know- 
ledge to "do" for herself and family if necessary or 
to train the domestic or domestics who fall to her lot. 

1 



2 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

In America this is rarer, much rarer, than in 
France or Germany where the part played by the 
woman in the marriage partnership and in the mak- 
ing of home is better understood and denned. 

It is said that it takes three generations to make 
a gentleman. Perhaps it takes as many to make the 
best of housekeepers. The young woman who begins 
housekeeping with a body of seasoned and systema- 
tized knowledge inherited from her mother and 
grandmother is lucky. Where this should be the rule, 
it is the exception, and that, not always because the 
mother and grandmother have not had the knowledge 
to impart but often in America because such know- 
ledge is not held of sufficient importance to be handed 
on. A mother hopes that her daughter may be richer 
than she and may therefore escape household cares ; 
and in consequence the daughter goes untrained to a 
test which, whether she be rich or poor, demands 
thoughtful preparation. If this untrained young 
housekeeper has servants she is at their mercy and 
must depend upon them for the knowledge which 
should be her special province; if she has none she 
must take the long hard road to experience. 

The "willing worker," however, always sees light 
in the end. And there comes a day to every diligent 
"householdress" when the old saw, "Order is 
Heaven's first law," becomes luminous with mean- 
ing. 

The value of planned housekeeping in time be- 
comes apparent to every earnest worker in the field. 



HER HOUSE IN ORDER 3 

Early training, Of course, hastens the day, hastens 
especially the recognition of housekeeping as a busi- 
ness, or even, if one goes deeply into the study and 
practice of it, a profession containing several im- 
portant divisions governed by general laws. When 
one begins to look at housekeeping in this light a new 
dignity is given to it. Even drudgery when viewed 
-in its relation to the larger purpose of the scheme is 
lightened, is robbed somewhat of its terrors. 

Upon the ability of a woman to administer wisely 
the affairs of the house depends the health of her 
family and more often than not the financial pros- 
perity of her husband ; and as soon as she recognizes 
the fact that her end of the business is as important 
as his and demands as constant and methodical atten- 
tion^ so much the better. 

There are three general heads under which the 
business of housekeeping may be classified and upon 
which the woman of the house should be informed. 
The first branch covers the economic field, the ex- 
penditure and proper division of income. The sec- 
ond deals with the culinary department and i^ie third 
Concerns the business of keeping the house clean and 
habitable. 

Many books have been written on the subject of 
household expenditure, and a careful study of the 
subject is advisable for any woman who expects to 
master iti It is sufficient to say here that the main 
object of such study is to arrive at a reasonable divi- 
sion of one's income, at a correct distribution of the 



4 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

money available among the various home interests. 
In the care of a moderate income one can not be 
capricious or fanciful in the matter of expenditure 
without subsequent regret. Yet capricious, fanciful 
and uneven one is apt to be if one considers only the 
outlay of the hour without regard to its relative im- 
portance. Each housekeeper should make a list of 
the objects for which money is to be expended and 
should come to some conclusion as to the proportion- 
ate amount to be spent on each. 

Some of these objects, such as food and shelter, 
bear a rather constant relation to the moderate in- 
come. Others vary according to taste. In a late book 
by Bertha M. Terrill called Household Manage- 
ment, the different divisions into which family ex- 
penditure may fall are thus denoted: Eent or its 
equivalent paid for shelter; Operating Expenses, 
such as fuel, light, wages and repair ; Food ; Clothes ; 
Higher Life. ' ' The latter includes all that ministers 
to mental and moral well-being, as education, travel, 
amusements, charities, savings and insurance." 

The thought bestowed at the beginning of each 
year upon some sensible plan for the division of one's 
money will repay a thousand times the labor neces- 
sary in formulating it and can not fail to bring a cer- 
tain amount of symmetry into the home life. 

The keeping of accounts is a logical sequence of a 
proper division of income. There is no teacher in 
the matter of expenditure like the figures in the case. 
The unsupported feminine memory is very untrust- 



HER HOUSE IN ORDER 5 

worthy when it conies to computing how the money 
goes or has gone ; and only an itemized list with ex- 
penditure noted at the time of purchase is likely to 
convince a woman of the channels into which her 
money has dripped away. An account-book kept 
faithfully for one year will serve excellently well as 
a guide and sometimes as a warning for the next 
year. Keeping accounts is an integral part of plan- 
ned housekeeping. 

If the financial welfare of the family depends 
largely upon skilful management of this first branch 
of domestic science, it is equally true that the phys- 
ical welfare of the family depends upon the wise 
ordering of the second or culinary department. 
"Without good food, a wise selection and combination 
of foods, health is impossible. One must not only 
know how different sorts of foods should be cooked, 
one must know what foods combine happily for pal- 
ate^ and health in a single meal. If one knew the 
definition of all the words in the dictionary and did 
not know how to combine the words into sentences, 
said knowledge would be of little use. And likewise 
if one could repeat all Mrs. Rorer's good recipes 
backward and make good every recipe on the stove 
or in the oven, this would not be enough. One must 
know something about the chemistry of cooking, 
about the effect of foods upon the human system be- 
fore one is in a position to keep John and the chil- 
dren clear of dyspepsia. 

Perhaps the study of cooking is the most interest- 



6 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

ing of the three branches of study necessary to a 
comprehension of the housekeeper's task. After one 
gets over the first bumps in the road, the acquisition 
of knowledge, both practical and theoretical, is rapid 
and one advances into a more and more fascinating 
country. Any one who thinks the study of cooking 
dull has gone but a little way along the path of that 
particular kind of learning. There is variety in it. 
There is room for the assertion of personal prefer- 
ence and all within the bounds of orderly manage- 
ment. The literature on the subject both as regards 
the chemical value of food and the art of cooking is 
immense. No woman who "sets up to be a real, for- 
sure-enough housekeeper" should be without a shelf 
full of good authorities on the subject. It is a proof 
of the limited and slighting way in which we look 
upon this branch of learning that we always say "the 
cook-book" as if there were only one and that enough, 
We do not say "the novel book." We mention po- 
litely the name and the author in connection. We 
should do as well by the culinary art as by the art of 
fiction. And when it comes to the matter merely of 
reading for pleasure, there are times when the inter- 
ested housekeeper will choose a cook-book for her 
diversion rather than the most exciting novel. A 
cook-book can create romantic and delightful pic- 
tures for its readers as well as the novel and these 
pictures are always susceptible of proof while those 
of the novel are not. 
The third class of duties about which it behooves 



HER HOUSE IN ORDER 7 

the housekeeper to be informed concerns the keeping 
of one's house, its furnishings and the clothes one 
wears, clean, in order and in repair. This branch of 
housekeeping carries with it a great deal of drudgery 
which must be constantly renewed. Yet this drudg- 
ery can be lightened by knowledge of the best meth- 
ods of doing the work and by an orderly and 
methodical arrangement of tasks. The effect upon 
family life of proper management in this department 
is as marked as the effect of the proper apportion- 
ment of money or of skilled direction in the culinary 
department. If the first two make for financial pros- 
perity and physical well-being, the last, if not under- 
taken with too great fussiness and an unwholesome^ 
attention to detail, makes for a state of mind en- 
abling one both to work and to play with vigor and 
success. There is nothing like a well-ordered house 
to put one in tune with the world. The aspect of 
such a place Where day by day thoughtful care adds 
to its attraction, its comfort and individuality, be- 
comes to the lover of home as dear as a loved familiar 
face and imparts much the same sense of rest and 
peace. 

It is with the routine necessary to bring about this 
happy relation between people and the house they 
live in that this book has to do. The details are 
homely enough. To classify these, to organize the 
knowledge necessary for the proper keeping of a 
house, to put it in its most available form has been 
the aim of the author. Following this idea the week 



8 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

has been taken as typifying the unit of work in its 
relation to the house. Nearly all the tasks necessary 
for the ordering of the home may be comprised in 
the weekly routine. If the housekeeper is a very 
modern one indeed and does her housekeeping with 
such nicety and method that the old-fashioned house- 
cleaning is never necessary, then all the duties of 
keeping the house in order may be comprised within 
the bounds of a week. 

The kind of matter contained in this book is often 
pushed off into a corner at the end of a cook-book or 
distributed through a volume devoted to the general 
topic of housekeeping. It has long been the author's 
belief that the directions for keeping a house clean 
and habitable and the recipes for preparations to be 
used in that effort are as deserving of a separate vol- 
ume as the recipes and directions for cooking; and 
that classification and organization of this kind of 
knowledge should be made for the benefit of the 
housekeeper. The material used in this volume is the 
result of a lifetime of observation and of practical 
effort in the matter of housekeeping. The division 
of the tasks, according to the day of the week, is per- 
haps somewhat arbitrary. There is room for discus- 
sion as to whether it is the best order. The author 
can say only that it is the order which best recom- 
mends itself to her. 

When to the housekeeper the duties of each day 
assume a distinct identity, the battle of managing 
the work is pretty well fought out. When Monday 



HER HOUSE IN ORDER 9 

no longer looks like Tuesday and Friday has a face 
and ways of her own, it means that logic of a kind is 
making its way in the housekeeper's brain. If the 
author succeeds in her aim of clearing up to some 
extent the subject in hand, and of lightening the 
labor involved in the important branch of domestic 
science under discussion, she will feel well repaid. 



CHAPTER II 

MONDAY 

WASH-DAT 

When I was thirty years younger than I am now, 
yet believed that I knew thirty times more than I 
shall ever learn, I had the hardihood to write and to 
print a rodomontade I shall copy here in part. 

The copying and the reading are a part of the 
wholesome penance maturity pays for even partial 
possession of the sins of presumptuous youth : — 

"By what human ordinance or Divine intimation 
it was first appointed unto womankind to lay hold 
of the log of the week by the heaviest and mo^t 
knobby end, I never expect to know. 

"It is — and it has been from time immemorial, 
and it will be until the end of this rolling old globe 
of ours — the law of thrifty housewives that eyes, 
anointed by the blessed sleep of Sunday night, shall 
be unsealed by cock-crow to smart and water in the 
smoke of boiling suds; that hands, lately folded in 
prayer and crossed in sacred decency through the 
hallowed hours, shall rub and redden and roughen 
over the bleached ridges of wooden wash-boards, or 
the luckless laborer lose temper and cuticle against 
the treacherous grooves of metal 'patents;' that, 

10 



MONDAY 11 

what with lifting boilers and tubs, and wringing and 
starching and hanging out and folding down, the 
priestess of that unblessed day in the calendar shall 
be, by Monday night, separated from Sunday quiet 
and Sunday thoughts by an abyss of unsavory odors 
and sweltering heats; by such backaches, and head- 
aches, and armaches, and legaches, that the recollec- 
tion of the holy season is a dream of doubtful dis- 
tinctness, and the hope of a return is frightfully 
counterbalanced by the reflection that — as Tommy 
Snooks sighed to Betsey Brooks — 

" 'To-morrow will be Monday!' " 

There was a good deal of this jeremiad, and at the 
time the picture was not overdrawn. We had not 
learned to prattle of Realism thirty years ago, yet 
the word has sober meaning when applied to a 
sketch from the laundry-life of that generation. It 
is the fault of the housemother of the twentieth cen- 
tury if she knows, by personal experience, hardships 
such as are depicted here. 

To begin with her "stage setting" — she is poor in- 
deed if she have not a laundry separate from her 
nominal kitchen. It may be a mere closet in size, 
perhaps nothing better than a shed in a lean-to. If 
she be a flat-dweller, one corner of her pocket-edition 
of a kitchen is fitted up with set-tubs, each with fau- 
cet and waste-pipe. The toil of pouring in water 
heated by the kettleful over the fire; the lifting of 
clumsy tubs of dirty suds; the carrying of these 



12 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

across the room to the sink ; sometimes to throw the 
fouled water into an outdoor drain, — all that her 
grandmother and her "hired help" designated aptly 
as the "heft" of wash-day work — are obsolete im- 
positions upon the women of the family. Our grand- 
dames accepted them with the pious resignation that 
stood with them for philosophy. Silent endurance 
of the inevitable was part of their religion and the 
daily practice of the same. 

There was, then, deep spiritual significance in the 
unwritten, but none the less arbitrary law which set 
Monday's toil so close to Sabbatical rest. Our 
woman who lent a hand with the weekly wash — often 
doing it all, unassisted — needed a sojourn in the 
Land of Beulah before she waded through the soapy 
surges that must be passed on the morrow. 

The modern housewife of moderate means may 
not have a washing-machine. To tell the truth, she 
is a trifle wary of this labor-saver. She has heard 
of patents that are said to be not unwieldy, or liable 
to get out of order, but she knows of more which 
have been an expensive delusion and a snare. A 
wringer is a necessity of life. ~No self-respecting 
maid of any known nationality or creed, would stay 
in a house where a wringer is not kept. It saves the 
muscles of arms and half the burden of the crucial 
day. As we shall see, by-and-by, ingenious women 
and compassionate men have invented compounds 
that reduce to a merciful minimum the rubbing and 
scrubbing necessary to dislodge dirt and eradicate 



MONDAY 13 

grease and stains from household linens and " body- 
clothing." Detersives, warranted not to rot the 
threads, or stir colors, are advertised hourly. A fair 
percentage of them are safe and worthy of the laun- 
dress' grateful confidence. She is a canny house- 
keeper who makes a practical study of domestic 
chemistry, and having proved what home-made de- 
tersives are trustworthy and safe, turns a deaf ear 
to the patent agent, charm he never so wisely. 

Granting all we have said of modern mitigations 
of the white woman's burden, par eminence, the 
truth stands, and can not be softened out of sight, 
that the bane of the American housemother's profes- 
sional life is washing and ironing. She names it 
first among household duties; it is a bugbear in en- 
gaging a new servant ; her ideal of a peaceful, care- 
free existence is to be able, conscientiously, to "put 
out the family wash." When she must put her own 
hand (literally) to the work, the duty is nothing less 
than an affliction. 

Many weary women, in surveying the ruin wrought 
by a single meal upon snowy napery, and the dire 
results of one afternoon's outing upon the dainty 
summer frocks of their girls, the shirts and trousers 
of their boys, are ready, in bitterness of spirit, to 
take up, in behalf of the recently laundered gar- 
ments and fine linen, the doleful plaint of the hour- 
old baby's epitaph — 

' ' Since I am so soon done for, 
I wonder what I was begun f or ! " 



14 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

A wit (and presumably a householder) of the 
eighteenth century declared that wash-day was in- 
stituted in commemoration of the day on which Job 
first saw the light, of which the sorely afflicted man 
of Uz said, "Let it perish! let darkness and the 
shadow of death stain it ! let it not be joined unto the 
days of the year ! " A latter-day writer has indulged 
in gloomy statistics as to the proportion of human 
life spent in cleansing the house, clothing and per- 
son, in fouling which the remaining time has been 
employed — or wasted? 

Our more optimistic, because more sensible house- 
wife does not squander time and lower her spirit- 
level in bemoaning the inexorable fact that clothes 
will get dirty, and, when dirty, must be cleansed. 
She brings to the tasks that fall to the accursed day 
cheerful philosophy and such knowledge of the best 
methods of doing the work as will achieve satisfac- 
tory results with the least expenditure of time and 
nervous forces. 

Let us come now to practical talk concerning some 
of these ways and means. 

If our laundress be far-sighted, she will forecast 
the morrow's duties so far as to put the "clothes" 
(all-embracing term) in soak overnight. In one 
household I wot of, where all needless work is 
avoided on the day of rest, the bulk of this pre- 
paratory task is done on Saturday night, leaving the 
body-linen, exchanged for clean on Sunday morn- 



MONDAY 15 

ing, to be added to the soaking clothes on the evening 
of that day. 

The tubs should be perfectly clean. Even station- 
ary tubs, with closely fitting lids, will gather dust 
and need to be wiped with a wet, then with a clean 
cloth, before they are half-filled with soft tepid 
water, and made ready for the soiled articles. Sort 
these, in preparing for the soaking. Put table- and 
bed-linen in separate tubs; keep soiled undergar- 
ments apart from both. 

You will save yourself much subsequent worry if 
you "treat" stains before washing, A chapter — 
perhaps more than one — will deal, at length and in 
detail, with various stains and the best ways of dis- 
posing of them. I offer here a few general rules : 

Fruit, ink, coffee, chocolate, and tea stain.3 may be 
wet with Javelle water, or with a weak infusion of 
chloride of lime, Leave the soiled places in this for 
five minutes, then rinse in pure, tepid water. Never 
omit the rinsing. Neglect of this precaution is al- 
most sure to weaken the threads of the fabric by the 
continued action of the acid. 

Rub chalk upon grease spots, and butter upon 
stains made by machine oil, or axle-grease, washing 
out the butter, a half -hour later with warm suds. 

When all are ready, put into the tubs and see that 
they are well covered, as I have directed, with tepid 
— never hot—-water. If the water be hard, stir a 
handful of pure borax into each large tub. 



16 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

On the morrow, draw off the soaking water ; wring 
each piece hard; return each kind to its respective 
and emptied tub, and wash in warm suds, made with 
plenty of really good, ripe soap. "Green" soap — ■ 
that is, newly made — is injurious to clothing and to 
hands. It eats into both with the virulence of a cor- 
rosive acid. Unless the water be soft, add borax 
again. It is harmless, mellows the water, and tends 
to whiten the clothes. 

Abjure washing soda and all its works in the laun- 
dry. The ordinary garden variety of laundress is so 
addicted to it that, if it be denied by her employers, 
she will smuggle surreptitious parcels of the drastic 
stuff into the laundry, and add it secretly, at her 
own expense, and at the sorer expense of the mis- 
tress ' property. The owner of the maltreated fabric 
seldom suspects the crime until she finds it eaten into 
tiny holes, as if peppered with bird-shot. 

There are other laundresses' allies and household- 
ers' foes which have a like effect. Some are patented 
and widely advertised. They save the washer- 
woman's muscles, rasp the sensibilities and deplete 
the purse of her employer. Borax is safe and effi- 
cient. One pound (powdered) will soften forty gal- 
lons of water. 

"When the clothes are clean at last — the soiled 
places rubbed out, and all of uniform whiteness — 
rinse in clean hot water, and put into a boiler half- 
filled with tepid water, to which you have added 
shredded soap and a tablespoonful of kerosene, stir- 



MONDAY 17 

red in well before the clothes go in. Never forget 
that boiling water "sets" dirt, and that dirt will 
make the contents of your boiler hopelessly dingy. 
Do not crowd so many clothes into the boiler that 
the water will not cover them well, and that in heat- 
ing it can not bubble freely between the several arti- 
cles. Boil gently for an hour ; lift out the wet linen 
with a wooden clothes-stick on to a wooden tray, or 
into a clean tub ; again half -fill the boiler, and put in 
a second supply of clothes. 

Wash your table-linen first, and, as in soaking, do 
not mix it with bed- or body-linen. Be scrupulously 
particular in this separation, even after both kinds 
seem to be clean. 

Now comes the final rinsing. Have ready an 
abundance of clean, warm water, souse each article 
several times, shake hard, twist with a pair of strong 
hands, and put through the wringer. If there are 
buttons upon any garment turn them inside, with a 
fold or two over them, that they may not be broken 
or torn off in the wringer. 

Much of the "good color" of a washing depends 
upon the wringing. Clothes should never drip when 
hung on the line. They dry more evenly and quickly, 
and are much whiter if every drop of water that can 
come away be wrung out before they are pronounced 
ready for the lines, than if hung up, streaming with 
water. 

A few leading points as to the management of flan- 
nels and colored fabrics belong to this chapter. 



18 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

"Many women of many minds" would be an ap- 
propriate motto with which to introduce the question 
of the temperature of the water in which flannels 
are to be washed. Says one prime authority upon 
Household Economics: 

"Flannels and hosiery should be washed in tepid, 
soft water — never in hot, and never in cold." 

Yet veteran housewives persist in extolling the 
merits of cold water as a means of cleansing woolens, 
and of keeping them soft. "When you have tried 
this method of washing woolen goods you will never 
be satisfied with any other," writes a grandmother, 
who prides herself upon "not being too old to learn 
anything that is worth knowing." 

In my own laundry flannels have, usually, been 
washed in lukewarm water, squeezed, and not wrung 
out, shaken free of water, dried quickly and ironed 
on the wrong side while damp. To be frank, I have 
not been invariably satisfied with this method. The 
phrase "lukewarm water" leaves too much to the 
discretion of the individual. What would be several 
degrees above tepid to the delicate cuticle of the mis- 
tress, is cold to the toil-hardened hands of her maid. 
"Why not test the temperature with the thermome- 
ter?" cries our college-bred girl. 

I reply — and my sister housekeeper will sustain 
me in the assertion — that there are many things 
which look well in housewifely manuals, and which 
are the soul of reason and common sense, that lapse 



MONDAY 19 

into a dead letter in the rush and routine of worka- 
day life. Were there a thermometer to every square 
inch of laundry wall, our average hireling, whose 
own the woolens are not, would not take the pains to 
consult one. 

Return we to our flannels. Not long ago, I put a 
particularly pretty dressing-sack into the family 
wash. The material is soft flannel, the design lilac 
flowers and leaves upon a white ground. A scalloped 
edge of lilac silk finishes sleeves and cuffs. Having 
just had a talk with one of the aforesaid honorables, 
I was moved to an experiment. The favorite gar- 
ment was laid in cold salt-and-water for an hour to 
set the color, dried in the shade, and ironed through 
a thin damp cloth. The laundress, obedient to 
orders, albeit she "had never heard of the like be- 
fore," was loud in praise of the result. The color 
held fast, the white ground remains clean and clear. 
The flannel is as soft as when new. I am not pre- 
pared to claim that this plan would be successful 
with flannels that have been already washed in the 
old way. 

Certain I am that hot water shrinks flannels. Hot 
irons carry on the evil work. To prevent shrinkage, 
stretch each garment often while it is drying. Not 
once or twice, but one dozen times, pulling out 
sleeves and body and skirt to their full width, and 
letting the length take care of itself. Here, again, 
what may be called "the laundress of commerce" 



20 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S 5VEEK 

fails in her duty, and her employer pays the penalty 
of her shortcomings. 

In winter, it may be necessary, on three Mondays 
out of four, to dry flannels indoors. Freezing shrinks 
woolen stuffs almost as badly as do overheated water 
and hissing hot irons. 

Colored cottons and linens should be laid in cold 
salt-and-water, mixed with a little pulverized alum, 
and left there for an hour, at least, before they are 
washed. Then, wring out the brine, and rinse in 
clear cold water. Next, wash, at once, in tepid suds, 
unless you prefer to use soap-bark or bran-water. 
This last is excellent for colored ginghams, lawns, 
and linens which require starch. 

Boil two quarts of wheat bran in six quarts of 
water for half an hour ; let it cool, and strain through 
cheese-cloth, pressing hard to get all the mucilagi- 
nous matter. Add cold water if it should seem too 
thick. After rinsing the brine out of your ginghams, 
calicoes, etc., wash them in this, using neither soap 
nor starch. 

Each of the topics touched upon in this — the open- 
ing chapter of our week — will be treated more at 
length as our subject opens and develops into more 
importance. 



CHAPTER III 

Monday (Continued) 

STABCH1NG AND BLUING 

A thousand and one times have I been tempted to 
wish that the bluing bag or ball or bottle had never 
made its way into the laundry. 

"Bluing," whatever may be the medium that puts 
it into the hands ©f the slovenly, unskilful or lazy 
laundress, is to her what the feather duster is to the 
happy-go-lucky chambermaid. In the deft fingers 
of the conscientious washerwoman, bag, or ball, or 
bottle has its important uses. Like the ticklish in- 
gredient in Sydney Smith's celebrated recipe for 
salad-dressing, of which he enjoins — 

"Let garlic's atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And, unsuspected, animate the whole ; ' ' 

like the teaspoonful of sugar in tomato soup, or the 
faintest conceivable suspicion of asafetida in catsup, 
— the influence of bluing should be subtle, yet po- 
tent. We should miss it, at a glance, if it were ab- 
sent. It should never be seen. 

An over-blued article betrays gross ignorance, or 
more culpable carelessness, always and everywhere. 
The shiftless creature who uses bluing to hide dirt, 

21 



22 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

is short-sighted as well as indolent. The spots she 
failed to rub out darken with the dye, and are also 
"set" by it into indelibleness. "When blue streaks 
appear in linen which has been well washed, they are 
due to improper mixing, or the things thus mottled 
were hung upon the line while dripping wet. The 
trickling streams dry into stripes. 

Another precaution should not be omitted : if you 
will shake the clothes as they come out of the 
wringer, and pull each piece as straight as if you 
were getting it ready for the ironing-board, you will 
effect a great saving of time and strength upon iron- 
ing-day, and lessen the chances of the aforesaid 
streaks. 

In the use of bluing, in mixing soda in the dough 
you mean to form into biscuits, or blend with cake- 
batter, muffins, souffles, and cream soups, in adding 
the prescribed "dash" of cayenne to sauce, or may- 
onnaise, — the housemother and her helpers should 
have "a light hand." Beat the coloring matter into 
the starch as you would fold the stiffened white-of- 
egg into a souffle, and then strain it through clean 
cheese-cloth to get rid of possible lumps and specks. 

To make your starch, wet two tablespoonfuls of 
crushed starch to a thin paste with two cupfuls of 
cold water, and when it is thoroughly dissolved, pour 
upon the paste a pint and a cupful of boiling water 
to which has been added a generous pinch of salt. 
The salt will prevent the clothes from getting sour 
and musty in hot weather. We do not need to be re- 



MONDAY 23 

minded how often we have been sickened by the pe- 
culiar acid odor arising from garments brought in 
from the laundry in "muggy" summer days, and 
which no amount of airing and fumigation will dis- 
pel. Set the starch, when mixed, over the fire in a 
double boiler, and cook for one minute after the 
water in the outer vessel boils, stirring all the time. 
Should it be too stiff, beat in boiling water gradually 
until you have the proper consistency. 

Another good recipe for making starch differs in 
a few respects from the foregoing, and may be even 
better in the opinion of some of our housewives : 

Dissolve as much starch as you think you will need 
in cold water until it is of the consistency of rich 
cream. Pour slowly upon this water from a boiling 
kettle, stirring fast and steadily, until it is smooth 
throughout. Now, add more boiling water, and stir 
until it is of the right consistency. Give it a min- 
ute's final boil, remove from the fire, and whip in a 
bit of paraffin the size of a walnut. Bluing should 
also be added while the mixture is hot. 

Dip the pieces to be starched into the warm com- 
pound, shake off superfluous paste, and clap each 
part of the article under treatment smartly between 
the hands, to insure even distribution of the stiffen- 
ing matter throughout the fabric. 

Our granddames made much of this clapping pro- 
cess in the clear-starching for which they were fa- 
mous. They "did up" their own laces with their 
high-bred fingers, by some magic of manipulation, 



24 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

lost to their descendants, leaving each thread clear 
and consistent, and the whole a miracle of sheer 
snowiness. A venerable gentlewoman once told me 
with justifiable pride, that in her day "ladies clapped 
muslins as they pulled candy — with the tips of their 
fingers." Also, that "much practice was required 
to bring the art to perfection." I should think so, 
indeed ! 

See to it that the clothes-lines are taut and clean. 

Discouraging manuals of housewifery, — written, 
for the most part, by women who have never set foot 
in a laundry, unless it were to tiptoe through it on a 
wash-day, skirts and noses uplifted, — lay down, as 
an imperative rule, that lines shall be taken down 
every week, as soon as the wash is drawn from them, 
and put aside in a clean, dry closet until they are 
needed for the next week's work. It is well, as a 
matter of neatness and economy, that this should be 
done. It is also possible — barely — that some of the 
practical housewives into whose hands this book may 
fall, have been so, blessed among women as to have 
hired laundresses who would obey the rule. A vast 
majority of us have, long ago, made up sorrowful 
minds to the truth — one among many of the same 
brand — that in domestic life, "must" and "can" are 
not interchangeable terms. In other words, that, if 
one would remain alive and sane, one must not con- 
found what one thinks one would do were one in one 's 
employee's place, and what the latter functionary 
may be induced to consider as her own duty. To take 



MONDAY 25 

down the clothes-lines every week is, in her sight, an 
uncovenanted mercy, and as such, not to be counted 
upon, except by the most exacting of nominal mis- 
tresses. She is a wise woman who does not make a 
point of a non-essential; who, since she can not get 
her clothes-lines taken down and in every Monday 
afternoon, winks at the omission, and contents her- 
self with the knowledge that they are kept clean 
where they are. Upon this she may insist with a 
fair degree of confidence in the fulfilment of her hope 
that it will be done. Even a haphazard laundress 
weighs the trouble of wiping the lines before putting 
out the week's wash against the chance that she may 
have to give the things a second scrub, and decides 
in favor of what will cause her less work. 

In her disinclination to follow the counsel of man- 
ual and mistress, she has more excuse than one sup- 
poses at first survey of the case. To stretch and 
fasten ropes and rustless wires properly requires a 
man's height and a man's strength, and these are not 
always available at the right season in the best-regu- 
lated families. The next best thing is to make the 
stationary lines scrupulously clean. Before putting 
out the washing, go over the line with a soft white 
cloth, wiping it hard and all along the length, espe- 
cially near the posts and poles. Should the cloth 
show much soil from soot and dust, get a fresh piece, 
and repeat the operation. 

Do not be niggardly with clothes-pins. They are 
cheap. You may reasonably insist that they shall be 



26 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

collected at the close of the day, and put into a bag 
or basket, to be kept clean and dry when not in use. 
I have seen white linen spotted at regular intervals 
where the pins had clamped it, making a second soak- 
ing and a bleaching necessary. 

Happy the woman who has an open* sunny space 
in which to stretch her clothes-line ! Thrice blessed 
is she who has in addition to this, a bit of clean turf 
whereupon stained, or "dingied" articles may be 
spread for bleaching! 

Always dry colored clothes in the shade, and with 
the wrong side outward. Disregard of this simple 
precaution brings many a dainty fabric to grief. 
When one reflects that to expose dampened cotton 
or woolen, silk or linen garments to the sun and air 
is a common bleaching process, one wonders at see- 
ing delicate shades one would retain uninjured, if 
possible, subjected deliberately to these influences, 
for the lack of a little common sense and ordinary 
prudence. Freezing fades no less than heat. Avoid 
both. 

Do not leave the clothes upon the lines longer than 
you can help after they are dried. They collect dust, 
and get stiff and harsh, and, if the day be windy, are 
strained in seam and thread, and often whipped into 
ribbons. A high wind is particularly to be feared 
when linen sheets and table-cloths are on the line. 
Serious damage is imminent when one sees these valu- 
ables flapping in the gale, like the sails of a storm- 
tossed vessel. Manage to hang sheets and the larger 



MONDAY 27 

pieces of napery in a sheltered corner, and bring 
them in as soon as they are dry. Follow the same 
rule with all starched articles. They become limp if 
the air is damp, and crack and split in a high wind. 
Freezing takes out the starch, or, if sudden and 
severe, makes shirt-bosoms and skirts as brittle as 
paper, so that they tear at a touch, and stick to the 
frozen lines. 

Says a shrewd housekeeper, whose advice I have 
found to be uniformly sound in other matters: "If 
you must hang your wash out-of-doors in freezing 
weather, stir a handful of salt into the last rinsing 
water. The clothes may then be got upon the lines 
before they stiffen with frost and there is less dan- 
ger of their sticking to the line. This applies to 
laundry work done on bitter winter days." 

When you can do it without over-fatigue or inter- 
ference with other duties, dampen down the clean 
and dried clothes overnight, and fold ready for iron- 
ing next day. They are far more easily handled if 
this be done soon after they are brought into the 
house than if they are left, rough-dry and in a dis- 
orderly heap, for eight or ten hours. In taking them 
from the line, lay them, one by one, within a clothes- 
basket lined with a clean cloth, folding each piece 
loosely as you lay it in place. Don't heap them pell- 
mell, upon one another, as the manner of some is, 
without regard to quality, kind, or economy of space. 
A just sense of order should prevail throughout each 
stage of the work. 



28 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Having ready in the laundry a large table spread 
with a clean cover , lift one piece at a time from the 
basket, spread out to its full size, and sprinkle with 
a clean whisk-broom — never, by any chance, used for 
anything else — dipped in warm water. Some nota- 
ble housewives affirm that the sprinkling should be 
done with really hot water, — that the clothes are 
more pliable, and the dampness more equally dif- 
fused if this be done than when merely warm water 
is used. As you sprinkle, press out folds and wrin- 
kles with the open palm of a firm hand, and pull 
hems, sleeves and seams straight. These details, that 
seem of minor consequence to the inconsiderate and 
inexperienced, lighten the work of the morrow more 
than the novice is willing to believe. 

It is one of the time-worn and stock criticisms 
launched by men against women that they "make 
work so hard as to wear themselves out before it is 
half done." Dispassionate survey of laundry pro- 
cesses, as usually conducted, gives point and color to 
the slur. Do you recollect the charming picture 
given in Mrs. Whitney's delightful story — We Girls 
— of Barbara Holabird, as she dampened the clean 
household wash in the basement laundry, rolling each 
piece up hard, and thumping the rolls with her 
doubled fist, while she chanted her improvised rhymes 
to a tune of her own making, serenely unconscious 
that her boy-lover was looking at and listening to her, 
from the yard above, and falling more and more 
deeply in love each moment? 



MONDAY 29 

Read the book — the very prettiest story of co- 
operative housekeeping which even that beloved and 
lamented priestess of our domestic life ever wrote — 
and learn that there is poetry as well as hardship in 
the three hundred common days of our American 
housemother's year, and that Job's birthday comes in 
for a fair share. 



CHAPTER IV 

Monday (Continued) 

DEVICES FOR MAKING WASHING EASY 

This is what they all claim to do ! Without affect- 
ing to deny that laundry duties are the heaviest that 
fall to the lot of the woman who does her own house- 
work, her sister-woman and, occasionally, a man and 
a brother, set clever wits to work to lessen the weight 
of the burden at some point of pressure. It is worth 
the philanthropist 's while to slip a pad under a gall- 
ing band here, or to let a buckle out there. 

If he be accounted worthy of the disciple's name 
and reward who 

"Lessens, by a feather's weight, 
The mass of human woe — ■" 

he, or she should have abundant honor who comes to 
the rescue of the sorely beset toiler in the reek and 
steam of tub and boiler. 

The formulas given in this chapter as illustrations 
of the practical operation of this helpful spirit, are, 
to the best of my knowledge and belief, trustworthy. 
They are vouched for by responsible persons — intelli- 
gent, honest, and solicitous to share with others what 

30 



MONDAY 31 

has been of service to themselves — workers along the 
same lines with laundress and housewife. 

I lead off with a recipe which commends itself with 
especial force to me, believing as I do that borax 
and kerosene deserve to be called "the housemother's 
twin blessings. ' ' I have instinctive confidence in an 
emulsion combining these in judicious proportions. 

At least one dozen housewives have justified this 
trust by earnest praise of the preparation, after trial 
of it in their own homes. One writes: "I would 
not try to do my washing without it. It does away 
with two-thirds of the rubbing." 

KEROSENE EMULSION (i) 

Shave half of a cake of Ivory soap fine with a 
sharp knife. Add to it a quart of warm water and 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered borax. Set over the 
fire, and simmer until the soap is dissolved. Lift 
from the range and stir into the mixture a coffee-cup- 
ful of kerosene. Bottle, cork closely and set away 
for use. It requires no further preparation. 

Put the clothes in soak overnight in hot water, 
adding the emulsion, — all of it. Do not put your 
hands into the hot water, but stir the clothes into the 
mixture with the clothes-stick, until all are thor- 
oughly saturated. Cover the tubs in which they are 
soaked and leave until you are ready to begin wash- 
ing next day. You will find that the dirt is loosened, 
the materials made pliable, and partially bleached, 
where bleaching is desirable. 



32 THE HOUSEKEEPEE'S WEEK 

KEROSENE EMULSION (2) 

Shave a bar of old white soap quite fine, and dis- 
solve it in two quarts of hot water, stirring until it 
is a thick suds. Beat smooth, and add a large table- 
spoonful of borax wet up with cold water. Next, 
put in two great spoonfuls of kerosene, and, after 
stirring for a minute to make the "emulsion," pour 
in quickly two tablespoonfuls of household ammonia. 
Bottle and cork, while you turn the clothes soaked 
overnight into your washboiler half full of hot water. 
Churn them up well with the clothes-stick, add 
the emulsion, and boil for half an hour. Take out, 
then rinse twice, first in hot water, then in lukewarm, 
and wring. 

One box of concentrated lye 
Two ounces of best borax, powdered 
One ounce of salts of tartar 
Two ounces of lump ammonia 
Two gallons of boiling water 

Put the mixture into a stone jug; shake violently 
for a whole minute, keeping a tight cork in all the 
while, and set away for use. Half a cupful of this 
fluid will suffice for a large boiler of clothes. Keep 
the jug closely corked, and it will be good as long as 
it lasts. 

No housekeeper can afford to be without Javelle 
water, if she makes a business of taking out fruit, 
and ink, and divers other stains that white goods are 
heir to — no matter how vigilant the mother may be, 



MONDAY 33 

and although children may be preternaturally care- 
ful of frocks and pinafores. It is a ready reckoner 
of the damage done by such mishaps, and if properly 
applied, will not injure delicate materials. 

This useful compound is sold by druggists, but it 
is not difficult to make it at home, and the domestic 
product is much less expensive than the manufac- 
tured article. 

A small teacupful of Javelle water, added to a 
boiler of water, will assist materially in keeping the 
clothes white, and will not act disastrously upon fine 
threads. 

HOME-MADE JAVELLE WATER 

Into a large stone or porcelain-lined pot put two 
pounds of baking-soda, and pour over it two quarts 
of hot water — not boiling. Stir with a wooden spoon 
until the soda has dissolved, and add half a pound 
of chloride of lime. Set the pot in a wide pan of 
warm water, and let it stand, covered, on the range 
until the mixture is quite hot. Take it off then, and 
let it cool, keeping it covered all the while. When 
cold, draw off the clear liquid carefully, strain 
through cheese-cloth and bottle. Cork closely, never 
leaving the stopper out for a moment longer than 
necessary. 

The cloudy residuum left in the pot may be bot- 
tled for clearing kitchen sinks of grease, as it is a 
powerful alkali. 

For a good soap-powder we are indebted to an emi- 



34 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

nent chemist who has generously supplied me with 
other much-needed information in the preparation 
of this work. I give the formula in his own words : 

SOAP-POWDER 

The finely powdered commercial article is usually 
a pulverized soap, containing about forty per cent, 
sal-soda. It may be made as follows : Dissolve five 
pounds of sal-soda in about half a gallon of boiling 
water, and put into this ten pounds of finely shaved 
laundry soap — ripe and good. Melt slowly on the 
back of the range. Don 't boil it ! 

When nearly melted stir until it is a homogeneous, 
thick mass. Ladle this into a clean tin or enameled 
pot, wider at top than bottom. Then let it cool. 
When chilled and solid, cut around the edges with a 
thin, sharp knife, and dump the cake on a clean piece 
of cloth. Divide the cake into thin strips ; spread on 
paper, and let them dry naturally, without artificial 
heat. When air-dry, the strips are brittle and may 
be rubbed between the hands into a coarse powder. 

However, the soap may also be cut into larger 
pieces, and used like any soap in laundry when it has 
been well dried. It contains more alkali (sal-soda) 
than ordinary soap, hence cleanses more quickly. 

Smaller quantities may be made, and, to the ingre- 
dients given herewith, there may be added, before 
cooling, a cupful of benzine, skimming it for laundry 
purposes. Keep covered, and in a dark place. 



MOHDAI &5 

A HOME-MADE BLUING 

""Warranted," says the lively donor, "sound and 
kind." We take it, trustfully, upon her word. 

To one ounce of Chinese, or of Prussian blue 
(either will do), add a quart of soft water. Put it 
into a bottle and shake well aud often for three days 
after mixing it. After this, do not shake it at all. 
If any of it is precipitated because not dissolved, 
you may refill the bottle after using all that is clear. 

If you can not get the pulverized blue, ask the 
druggist to crush it for you. Unless the Chinese or 
Prussian blue be pure, your compound will be a 
failure. It will precipitate, and spot the clothes. If 
it is all right and not adulterated, it is a matter of 
great economy to use this preparation. It will not 
hurt the finest fabric. The quantity here given has 
been known to last a family of six people a year, and 
the cost is trifling when compared with that of any 
patent bluing. 

But — ask your druggist to warrant the blue ! He 
will, probably — and then you will be grateful for the 
recipe. 

STARCH THAT WILL NOT STICK TO THE IRONS 

Two ounces of best spermaceti 
Two ounces of gum arabjc 
Two ounces of powdered borax 
One ounce of glycerine 
One quart of water 



36 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Make the starch in the usual way ; stir in one table- 
spoonful of the mixture, and thin with hot water, un- 
til fit for use. 

This is as good an opportunity as I shall have to 
say to my fellow-housewife that scraps of soap 
should never be thrown away, no matter how small, 
■ — either in laundry, or bath-room. Least of all 
should they be allowed to soak their shortened lives 
away in the bottom of a wash-tub. When they are 
too small to be handled with ease, they should be 
collected carefully and put aside in a covered box 
until there are enough to warrant the busy house- 
mother in making them into a jelly. This is done 
by leaving them in warm water for a couple of hours 
to soften. Then, put them into a saucepan with the 
water in which they were soaked. There should be 
just enough to cover them. Boil gently until you 
have a clear jelly. Dissolve for each cupful of this, 
a teaspoonful of refined borax, in a little warm water, 
and whip into the soap jelly. Bring again to the 
boil, and pour into a jar to cool. 

This, diluted with warm water — rainwater, fil- 
tered, when you can get it — makes a lovely lather for 
washing such woolen goods as would thicken and 
"full up," if soap were applied directly upon 
them. 

Toilet soaps should be kept by themselves, and 
made, by the addition of boric talcum, into a scented 
jelly for the bath-room. 



MONDAY 37 

PARAFFIN AS A CLEANSING AGENT 

Housewives who profess to have given paraffin a 
fair trial in the laundry, are so loud in praise of it 
that to pass it over lightly would be to fly in the face 
of the evidence of many witnesses. I offer a recipe 
the excellence of which is vouched for by several 
who have used it for years. 

The clothes must be soaked overnight in the usual 
way. In the morning wring them out, and shake 
free of superfluous water. 

Into a boiler half full of hot soft water, cut a half- 
bar of white soap and a bit of paraffin a little less 
than two inches square. Fill the boiler three-quar- 
ters full with pieces of fine clothing — those about 
which you are most particular — and boil for thirty 
minutes. Remove the clothes, lay them in hot rins- 
ing water and fill the boiler with the second-best 
things, having thrown out the soiled water and put 
in a fresh supply of water, soap and paraffin. This 
done, boil half an hour, and take the clothes out. 
The contents of the boiler are not to be thrown away 
this time. There will be enough soap and paraffin 
for the third boiling of towels and coarse pieces. 

Rub all soiled spots lightly on the wash-board, us- 
ing no more soap. The dirt will have been loosened 
by the process, and be ready to fall out of itself. 
After passing through two rinsing waters and blu- 
ing, hang out to dry. 



38 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

In winter, if the flannels are washed in the water 
left from the first washing of fine white clothes, then 
rinsed in warm water, softened with a little borax, 
they will be nice and soft. 

The soapy water from the boiler is good for clean- 
ing floors, sinks, etc., if used while warm. The 
boiler should be emptied before it cools, or the paraf- 
fin will form a rim as a high- water mark, which noth- 
ing but kerosene will remove. 

The next washing-compound Upon our list is en- 
thusiastically commended by good judges of laundry 
work. It has, evidently, the elements of success, 
so far as ingredients go. I precede it by a serious 
warning to those who are not familiar with the char- 
acter of gasoline. This valuable agent in many va- 
rieties of domestic arts is perfectly safe in careful 
hands. -Nobody can take liberties with it. Keep it 
away from artificial light of every kind, and it is 
absolutely manageable. It resents the approach of 
fire in any form. Yet I am assured by authentic at- 
testants that the mixture of which I am about to 
speak may be boiled after it has been cooled, and, as 
it were, seasoned by the air, without the least risk of 
explosion. 

A GASOLINE EMULSION FOR WASHING 

Shave a bar of old white soap fine into a pot hold- 
ing about two gallons. Stir into it two quarts of 
boiling water; set over the fire and bring to a boil, 
stirring often to facilitate dissolution, When you 



MONDAY 39 

have a sort of jellied cream, remove from the fire to 
a fireless room, or, better still, to the outer air. The 
back porch is a safe place. "While the soap jelly is 
still hot pour into it, gradually, a half -pint of gaso- 
line. It will effervesce furiously, filling the kettle. 
Cover with a tight lid and let it alone for fifteen 
minutes. 

Have at hand the weekly wash that has been 
soaked overnight, then wrung nearly dry and sorted 
into tubs, ready for the laundress and the rubbing. 
Make a suds with plenty of hot water and a pint of 
the emulsion; rub in the usual way, or put into the 
washing-machine if you have one; rinse in warm 
water, and the articles are ready for the line. As I 
have said, it may even be boiled without danger of 
explosion, but this is seldom necessary, so well does 
the cleanser do its part. 

It softens hard water and dislodges dirt and whit- 
ens linen. Colored clothes may be washed with this 
emulsion without fading them. 

A GOOD WASHING FLUID 

Dissolve in two gallons of boiling water one can of 
potash, or of a patent lye you have tried and proved 
to be good. Add to the mixture a half-cup of house- 
hold ammonia, and as much powdered borax. Take 
from the fire, cover closely, and when it is blood- 
warm, put it into bottles with tight rubber corks. 

On wash-day, have ready a boiler of scalding 
water into which you have stirred a half -bar of ripe 



40 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

soap. (A half-bar here means a piece two inches 
square.) Add a small teacupful of the fluid to this 
boilerful, and set on the stove. Your clothes should 
have been soaked overnight, and the soiled places 
rubbed with soap. Put them into the boiler, and 
keep up a hard boil for twenty minutes. The clothes 
should then be turned into the tubs. They will need 
very little rubbing, but must be put through two rins- 
ing waters. 



CHAPTER V 

mgnday (Continued^ 

WOOLENS, COLORED COTTONS AND LINENS 

Reference was made in our first chapter to the 
"cold-water process" for woolen materials, includ- 
ing that bugbear of the thrifty manager — blankets. 
An earnest advocate of the somewhat startling inno- 
vation upon grandmotherly customs, writes : 

"It is the only way for washing woolens if you 
would have them beaiitifully soft and clean — soft as 
when new, although nearly worn out. My experience 
dates back some nine years, when a neighbor and my- 
self washed blankets on the same day, the blankets 
being exactly alike, bought at the same place and at 
the same time. Hers were soft and pliable, while 
mine had that harsh feeling every one knows for 
herself, and shudders to think of. 

"I asked my friend the reason of the difference 
and she said — 'Having had experience in my girlhood 
in the woolen factories of Scotland, I simply soaked 
my blankets in cold water.' 

"Of course I had used warm — and behold the re- 
sult. Since that day even our woolen stockings are 
treated in this way. 

41 



42 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

"One need not always use the cold water. Tepid 
may do as well for old woolens. I am told that it 
does. But when they are new, before washing them 
at all, I soak them in pure cold water for at least 
half-an-hour, or until the flannel will make a fine 
lather when soap is rubbed on. Afterward, I wash 
them just as I would wash any other garment. My 
baby's nightgowns — made of white gauze flannel — 
when treated in this manner, are a joy to behold and 
to handle. 

"It is useless to try the 'cold water process' after 
the article has been once put into warm water, for 
then the grease is 'set' and your woolen has a harsh 
texture. The children's fine white flannels, having 
been invariably treated to the 'cold water cure,' when 
new, are afterward washed in the same way as their 
muslins — but not boiled, of course. Then they are 
thrown into the cold bluing water, hung out in freez- 
ing weather, or in sunshine, and never disappoint me. 

"There is a lot of virtue in cold water!" 

Prom this pleasant letter we gather that cold water 
is but an initiatory stage, designed to take the wool- 
oil out of the fabric. This done, the rest of the 
operation does not differ materially from the meth- 
ods practised in other laundries. 

I have taken great pains to get a consensus of opin- 
ion from divers trustworthy sources upon this im- 
portant branch of household labor, and culled from 
a mass of correspondence what seems to me helpful 
and practical information for the willing learner. 



MONDAY 43 

In response to my inquiry, a wide-awake Western 
woman says : 

"Will I tell you how I manage to have my blankets 
look well as long as one thread holds to another? 
With a 'heart-and-a-half !' as we say out here. 

"If the blankets are very much soiled, shave two 
bars of wool soap into a granite saucepan ; cover with 
soft warm water and set on the range to melt. Have 
in a great pot plenty of warm (not hot) water. Air, 
beat and brush the blankets well to get rid of all the 
fluff and dust. Put into a large tub three big pail- 
fuls of warm water. There should be ten or twelve 
gallons of it. Add a cupful of household ammonia, 
before stirring in the melted soap. Mix all well to- 
gether with the clothes-stick, and put in the blankets. 
Bo not rub them on the wash-board, but souse them 
under, and shake them about vigorously, then squeeze 
them between your hands until you see that the dirt 
is out. If, when you lift them to the light, they look 
grimy, make a second suds like the first, and repeat 
the sousing, shaking and turning until you are satis- 
fied. Put through the wringer, if your hands are 
not strong enough to press all the wet out of them. 
They should not drip when hung on the line. It is 
well to add a little ammonia to the clear water in 
which they are rinsed before they are wrung out. 

"Hang them lengthwise on the lines, using plenty 
of clothes-pins. Make sure that a blanket is taut on 
the line, but do not strain the edges. Dry in the 
shade. While they are still damp go all over each 



44 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

with a clean, new wire brush. An 'electric' hair 
brush is good for this purpose. Brush with the nap ; 
never against it. 

"This process may seem tedious, but experience 
has proved to me that there is no short cut to excel- 
lence in the washing of blankets. ' ' 

A serious trouble with housewives and laundresses 
who have the management of flannels is the tendency 
of woolen fabrics to shrink in the wash. All-wool 
garments are so liable to this infirmity that many a 
clever economist insists on buying flannel that has a 
liberal admixture of cotton in it. It will not "full 
up" in the water and in the wearing. She, who is 
able to indulge herself and her family in the use of 
"patent" underwear at a cost of fifteen and twenty 
dollars a garment, is wise if she adds to the expense 
of the luxury by sending them every week to a pro- 
fessional cleaner, unless her home laundress be unus- 
ually skilful, and amenable to reason. It is a com- 
mon complaint with our housemother that servants, 
competent and docile in other respects, can not, or 
will not wash flannels in such a way as not to make 
them smaller and tighter each week, until they are, 
perforce, thrown aside when but half -worn. 

In an earlier chapter, I have expressed my indi- 
vidual opinion to the effect that hot water shrinks 
woolen goods of every kind. Yet I am constrained 
by a sense of justice, and by respect for an esteemed 
correspondent, to give for what it may be worth, 
a brief note on this head, that tells another story. 



MONDAY 45 

"My husband is a bit 'pernicketty,' as our old- 
fashioned people say, in the matter of flannels. He 
will have none but the best all-wool underwear and 
negligee shirts. His summer suits are of the same, 
and it goes without saying that they are an apple 
of discord in the laundry. To keep the peace below 
stairs — and, I might add, to keep my poor John out 
of the poor house — I wash the aforementioned gar- 
ments with my own hands, and he never suspects 
it ! Every Monday morning, as soon as he is safely 
off to his office, I shut myself up in the bath-room 
with his outer and inner flannels, and then and there 
address myself seriously to the self-imposed task. 
I run the water in the tub until it is as hot as I can 
bear my hand in; plunge the precious articles into 
the steaming flood, soap them well all over — using 
none but old, white soap, kept in the store-room for 
this sacred purpose alone — and rub them on the 
wash-board, until every part has been rubbed and 
soaped. I have my own clandestine wringer, and 
I put them through it, then rush them through two 
clean, hot, rinsing waters, wring out the wet with 
my hands, and hang the cleansed valuables in the 
back yard. This last part of the process is all that 
I intrust to any hands save my very own, and I su- 
perintend this, to make sure they have the right ex- 
posure. When the flannels are half dry, they are 
hung in the sunny sitting-room, near an open win- 
dow, and I stretch them faithfully every ten minutes. 

"The success of the process depends largely upon 



46 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

the rapidity with which each stage is conducted. It 
is a 'rush order' throughout. 

" 'Lots of trouble V I don't deny it, but my good- 
man wears his all-wools in gladness and singleness of 
heart, and there are no failures in the laundry be- 
cause nobody there would think the garments (or the 
wearer thereof) 'worth all that fuss.' I differ from 
the powers-that-would-be-if-they-could in this, as in 
other views. And I really take deep if secret satis- 
faction in the fact that each of these garments is 
worn with perfect comfort as long as the threads 
hold together. Furthermore, they outlast by months 
flannels washed in the ordinary way, and look well 
to the end. 

"As for the Waste of time at which my fashion- 
able acquaintances would cavil if they suspected the 
'degrading' truth — I don't play 'Bridge' and can, 
therefore, afford an hour a week spent thus. May I 
add a line of caution to other flannel- washers ? 
Never put them (the flannels, not the washerwomen) 
into water in which cottons or linens have been 
washed, no matter how clean it may seem. There is 
always fine lint afloat in it that will be taken up by 
the flannels, making them hard and inclined to 
shrink." 

HOW TO KEEP WOOLEN STOCKINGS FROM SHRINKING 
IN THE WASH 

Wash in the usual way, and while still damp, 
stretch upon wooden frames, cut to exactly the size 



MONDAY 47 

of each stocking or sock — or, to speak with absolute 
correctness — a trifle larger. These may be bought at 
some shops, but a better plan for the mother of mod- 
erate means, is to get a thin smooth board — such as 
cotton fabrics are rolled on when put up for sale — 
and have her forms made at home. Lay one of each 
pair of hose smoothly on the board, attach it to the 
soft Wood With pins, and pencil the outline on it 
very carefully, making it, as I have said, a very 
little larger than the stocking. Next, bore six holes 
in each to hasten the drying. The pattern may be 
cut through the board by any one who has a jack- 
knife and a steady hand. The boards may be had 
for the asking at any village store. It is, therefore, 
not a serious undertaking to provide a form for each 
member of the family who wears woolen hose. 
Boys' winter stockings, worn with knickerbockers, 
being stout and often coarse, thicken — as dismayed 
mothers complain— until they are stiff as boards, 
while the baby's knitted socks become all too small 
for him long before he has outgrown them. One pair 
of wooden forms for each will prolong the useful- 
ness of the foot-gear and save the mother much an- 
noyance. 

Woolens that have been badly shrunken in the 
wash may be improved, if not entirely restored to 
their former size, by the following process : 

If you have not soap jelly on hand, dissolve shav- 
ings of white soap in enough boiling water to melt 
them, and when the "jelly" is cold and firm 2 stir into 



48 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

a tubful of cold water. The size of the tub depends 
upon the number of clothes to be washed. If the 
flannels are soiled, add a little household ammonia 
just before they go into the water. Wash them as 
quickly as possible, using no more soap, pass them 
through the wringer, rinse in two cold waters, and 
wring dry with a few dexterous twists of a pair of 
strong hands. Dry in the shade, and quickly, 
stretching them every ten minutes. 

If these directions be obeyed to the letter, the ill- 
used garments will be soft and flexible when dry. 

TO CLEAN A CHAMOIS VEST 

Make a good warm suds of well-ripened white soap 
— add a tablespoonful of olive oil to a gallon of the 
suds, and wash as you would fine, all-wool flannel. 
Rinse in warm water and stretch on a form — a firm 
pillow, if you have no other. If, when you have 
dried it in the shade, there remain harsh places in 
the vest, rub them soft between the hands. If there 
be a lining take it out before washing. 

COLORED COTTONS 

If you have colored muslins, calicoes or ginghams 
to wash, mix a tablespoonful of ox-gall in each gallon 
of cold water, and leave the articles in this for two 
hours. 

Or — make a strong brine of fine salt and cold 
water, and soak the colored cotton in it before wash- 
ing quickly and drying it — always with the Wrong 



MONDAY 49 

side out — in the shade. Colored things fade more 
in the drying than in the tub. 

If, by inexcusable carelessness, the garment should 
get into the boiler and go through the boiling process 
with the white clothes, there are five-hundred chances 
against one that it will be irretrievably faded when 
it comes out. If the colors are not perfectly fast 
there are, likewise, as many chances in favor of in- 
jury to the rest of the contents of the caldron. A' 
second boil in water liberally dashed with lemon- 
juice, or chloride of lime, may bleach the unwelcome 
tinge out of the white things. If anything will re- 
store lost color, it is a dip in household ammonia, 
slightly diluted. The odds are against you, still you 
may make the attempt. 

Moral: Set your colors before they go into the 
water, and keep colored and white things as far sep- 
arate as the limits of your laundry will allow. Let 
them typify the Jews and the Samaritans on one day 
of the week. > 

A tablespoonful of powdered alum dissolved in 
boiling water is a potent addition to the briny bath 
in which the ginghams, etc., should lie for two hours, 
or more, as a preparation for the tub. Repeat the 
"setting" every time the colored article is washed. 
A common blunder is to imagine that, once set, it 
needs no further treatment. A mistake, equally 
common and as disastrous, is to take for granted the 
paid washerwoman's obedience to the injunction 
never to omit the preliminary stage. Should her em- 



50 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

ployer think it too much trouble to give personal at- 
tention to a matter that will consume, perhaps ten 
minutes, all told, of her morning, the hireling will 
reckon the sah>and-alum soaking as "notional," and 
give it the go-by. 

I seek to impress these homely items in the toil and 
moil of Monday upon the mind and the housewifely 
conscience of my reader, because I know that colored 
cottons and linens may be kept bright and comely 
as long as they retain integrity of texture, if any one 
will but observe these simple and absurdly easy pre- 
cautions. Also, that there is nothing in the salt and 
alum which can rot the finest threads. 

The colors set, you may, if you wish to starch the 
cottons or linens, make a gallon of boiled starch in 
the usual way, and strain half of it into a tubful of 
soft warm — not hot — water. It must be more than 
lukewarm, yet not too hot for you to bear your hand 
in it with comfort. Rub lightly and rapidly, Never 
let colored goods lie for one minute in the washing, 
or rinsing water, after they are once clean. Dilute 
the reserved half of the starch with warm water and 
use it in rinsing. Hang in the shade and dry. 

Or — and this is perhaps a better method to pursue 
with delicate tints and sheer, fine fabrics : 

Boil two quarts of clean wheat-bran in eight quarts 
of water for an hour, never fast, but steadily all the 
time. Turn out, and as soon as it is moderately cool, 
before it stiffens, strain through double cheese-cloth, 
pressing hard to get all the starch. If it is too thick, 



MONDAY, 51 

add cold water until It is of the consistency of thin 
starch. [Wash your lawn, dimity, or gingham in this, 
using neither soap nor starch. The bran-water is 
both cleansing and stiffening. A variation of this 
mode of doing up thin stuffs when black or dark blue, 
gray, or green — indeed when the color is so dark that 
the ordinary starch will impart a whitish look, is 
this: 

Put into a clean white muslin or cheese-cloth bag, 
a pint of wheat-bran ; and lay it in as much boiling 
water as will suffice for each skirt or waist. Cover 
the vessel in which the bag lies, and set at the side 
of the range where it will keep hot, but not simmer, 
for one hour. Then squeeze and knead the bag hard 
in the water, and above it, until no more liquid will 
exude from it. Stir a tablespoonful of borax into 
the water. Wash the article you wish to clean in 
this preparation while it is quite warm, having, first, 
reserved a cupful for the rinsing water. This must 
be thinner than that in which the main washing was 
done. Shake, and clap several times between the 
hands. [When nearly dry, iron on the wrong side 
over a double thickness of flannel. 



CHAPTER VI 

Monday \Concludedy 

SILKS, BLACK, COLORED AND WHITE 

A black" silk gown which has long seen service and 
is hopelessly shiny on the right side and defaced by 
smears and stains and yet retains its integrity of 
warp and woof, is too good to throw away. No 
dressmaker would deign to renovate the old soldier, 
yet you feel that there is work in it for months to 
come. None of us women require to be told that the 
wardrobe which does not include a seasoned veteran 
in the shape of a three-quarters-worn black silk, 
lacks that which no new gown can supply. 

If you, the veteran's fond proprietor, will reduce 
it to something like a decent show of capabilities, 
there are still abroad in the land seamstresses who 
have, they tell you proudly, ''worked with a dress- 
maker" and are not above making over what the 
profession would condemn as a derelict. Provided, 
always, they are not expected to rip and clean. That 
depth of ignominy you must avoid by doing the work 
with your own hands. 

Ripping is an art. Unless you have, by rare good 

52 



MONDAY 53 

luck, some humble-minded pensioner, too old-fash- 
ioned to resent the task proposed, and conscientious 
enough to bring to it the deftness learned in an 
earlier day — trust nobody but yourself to dissect the 
veteran. May I suggest as an alleviation of the hard- 
ship of the undertaking, that you set about it on 
some stormy evening when John has the time and 
the will to beguile the work of weariness by reading 
aloud while the keen scissors are plied? 

In such circumstances, you will have patience to 
rip seams carefully, clipping each stitch, and resist- 
ing the disposition to tear down a whole breadth at 
one pull. 

When the breadths and sections of waist and 
sleeves are separated, brush out the dust, and wipe 
both sides of the silk with a bit of soft flannel. 
Spread, breadth by breadth, upon a sheet doubled 
upon a large table, and sponge what is hereafter to be 
the wrong side, with warm (not scalding) water in 
which peeled potatoes have been boiled into meali- 
ness. Strain the water through a cotton bag before 
using it. While the silk is yet damp fold it smoothly 
and lay between folds of an old linen sheet until you 
are ready to iron it. It should be damp still when 
ironed on what was the right, and is to be the wrong 
side, leaving the other free from the gloss of the 
iron. Hang by the edges to dry, using plenty of 
clothes-pins. If there are grease spots on the silk, 
sponge freely with household ammonia before iron- 
ing. 



5£ THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

TO WASH FAST-COLORED SILKS 

Having ripped the garment apart, make sure that 
the color will hold by washing a small sample of the 
goods in cold water with borax soap. If the origi- 
nal color does not stand the test, it is quite possible 
that it may fade agreeably, as it were, into a shade 
that is not displeasing to your eye, thus promising 
you a new gown. 

Wipe the silk on both sides with soft flannel. 
Have ready in a tub three gallons of warm suds 
made with old white Castile soap. Stir into this rap- 
idly a quart of household ammonia, put in the silk 
and wash it as you would a pocket-handkerchief, 
breadth by breadth; rinse all in clear, tepid water, 
shaking and squeezing, but not putting through the 
wringer. Roll four or five thicknesses of soft linen 
or cotton about a round stick — an old broom-handle 
will do. It should be perfectly smooth. Wind the 
breadths of damp silk on this, keeping each straight 
and taut. The silk should be about half -dry. When 
all are on, wrap the roll in dry linen and leave it 
alone for at least an hour. Finally, iron on the 
wrong side with an iron that is not hot enough to 
fade it. 

Silks that are badly soiled may be made to look 
fresh and crisp by following these directions. They 
must not lie in the water one minute longer than suf- 
fices for a rapid souse and rub, or the color will not 
be clear. 



MONDAY, 55 

WASH-SILK WAISTS AND CHILDREN'S FROCKS 

The pretty wash-silks affected by young girls for 
shirt-waists and by mothers for children's party 
frocks, must be carefully handled in the laundry, or 
they are not worth making up. They may be washed 
without ripping if the right means are used. 

If the garment be greasy from perspiration, or 
other causes, soak it for an hour in tepid water in 
which a little borax has been dissolved. See that the 
pail or tub in which you are to wash it is perfectly 
free from soil and grease. Delicate fabrics are 
sometimes ruined by carelessness in this respect. It 
is not enough that the tub was washed when set away 
after the last using. Scald and wipe it out how, 
with a clean, dry cloth. Make a lather of soft water 
and ' ' ripe ' ' Ivory soap. iWash the waist quickly and 
faithfully in this. Do not use any soap in the pro- 
cess. If the suds are properly made you will need 
none. Pass from the suds into a rinsing-water, just 
lukewarm, and from this into a second. If the mate- 
rial be white or pale-blue, add a very little liquid blu-' 
ing to the second rinsing-bath. The rinse must be 
thorough, as if any soap is left in the silk, it will 
yellow it. It may be advisable to have three waters 
to make all sure. In which case the dash of bluing 
should go into the last. 

The rinsing done, shake, and press out the wet by 
hand, wrapping the garment in a soft towel, and 
squeezing it through this to absorb the moisture. 



56 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Iron while still so wet that the steam rises freely. 

Lay a piece of fine, thin muslin, or linen, between 
the silk and the iron. The latter must not be so hot 
as to risk streaking the moist silk by uneven drying. 
Press hard and steadily as you iron. When the silk 
is smoothed to your liking, take a fresh iron, rub it 
with especial pains and press the now perfectly dried 
garment on the wrong side, running the iron over it 
lightly and swiftly, without the muslin covering. 

One mother who does up her girls' waists and 
gowns herself, gets a firm, but slight gloss by the ad- 
dition of a teaspoonful of dissolved glue to the third 
rinsing water. 

She lays stress upon the necessity of ironing before 
the silk is nearly dry, maintaining that the silk will 
never look well if suffered to dry before the heavy, 
hot iron presses it. 

TO WASH WHITE AND COLORED RIBBONS 

Pin the ribbon upon a board about which you have 
tacked a clean white cloth. Scrub the ribbon from 
end to end with a bit of white flannel wet with cold 
water to which you have added a little household am- 
monia. Having treated one side faithfully, draw out 
the pins, turn the ribbon and scrub the other side 
as thoroughly with a fresh piece of flannel. If the 
ribbon be very dirty, change the water three or four 
times. Dry upon the board in the sun, having wiped 
the ribbon repeatedly with a dry cloth until you can 
get no more moisture out of it. 



MONDAY 57 

White ribbons may be bleached, in drying, by 
sponging them with peroxide of hydrogen. Leave 
in the sun on the board until dry. Take from the 
board, cover with two thicknesses of an old cam- 
bric handkerchief, and press hard with a moderately 
hot iron through the cambric. 

A variation of the foregoing method is especially 
recommended for white ribbons and the faintly tinted 
taffeta and lutestring ribbons used for lingerie and 
which, being worn constantly, and coming into con- 
tact with the skin, must be washed often. 

Keep on hand a jar of soap- jelly made by boiling 
down scraps of fine toilet soap, saved for this pur- 
pose as they become too small to be used in the bath. 
Never throw away a bit, no matter how minute. The 
riper, the better. 

Wet your ribbons in cold water and lay them on a 
flat surface. The marble slab of an old-fashioned 
table, or bureau, made perfectly clean and free from 
dust, is an excellent place for the operation. Dip a 
clea|i, rather firm, but not harsh tooth-brush into the 
jelly, then into cold water, and scrub the ribbons 
lengthwise until they are clean. Keep them smooth 
by holding one end down hard, while you work to- 
ward the other. Rinse three times in cold water, 
changing the water each time. The last water should 
be perfectly clear. Dip the ribbons up and down, in 
rinsing, holding one end, and handling as little as 
possible. While they are yet dripping wet, wind 
upon a smooth, clean bottle, taking care not to wrin- 



58 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S SYEEK 

kle the ribbon, and set in an airy window, out of the 
sun, to dry. Always dry silken stuffs in the shade. 
The sun draws them into wrinkles. 

Trim the frayed ends diagonally to prevent ravel- 
ling. 

In ironing lay a very fine piece of muslin or linen 
between the ribbon and the iron which should be but 
moderately warm, as I have directed in the preceding 
recipe. 

TO CLEAN A BLACK, OR DARK-COLORED WOOLEN SKIRT 

Other gowns may be more costly, and most of them 
are handsomer. None fulfils the end of its creation 
more faithfully than the " rainy-day skirt." It was 
never smart, perhaps, but it is all wool, holds its 
color and abides in strength when fancy fabrics go 
to the wall — i.e. the rag-bag, or rag-picker. 

If the man who saves his fellow (and sometimes 
his inferior) from ruin, be a benefactor, the sturdy 
garment whose mission it is to stand between better, 
because richer, raiment and needless wear and tear, 
should be accounted respectable, and renovated duti- 
fully when shabby in the service. 

If it be mud-stained at the bottom — and it is in- 
variably, albeit of walking length — falsely so-called 
— brush out all the loose dirt. May I remind you to 
do this in the open air? Our sidewalks are the 
chosen breeding-grounds of bacteria of the most ma- 
levolent type, and you have never considered it worth 
while to hold up the old short skirt. Beat and brush 



MONDAY, 59 

it out-of-doors, shaking steadily against the wind as 
long as the dust flies. 

Lay it, then, upon a table, and scrub the mud stains 
left above the hem with a freshly cut raw potato. 
This, by the way, will remove such spots and streaks 
from black silk when nothing else will. Next, spread 
and straighten each breadth, and sponge faithfully 
with stale beer. If you can get what is listed as 
"malt vinegar," it is even better. Use it lavishly, 
and when one side has had full justice done to it, be 
as faithful with the other. Lastly, go all over the 
right side with a sponge dripping with alcohol. 
Hang in the air, but not in the sun, until almost dry, 
supporting by the belt and not sparing clothes-pins. 
Take it down, and iron on the wrong side through a 
damp cloth. 

SOAP-BARK AS A CLEANSER 

The best way of using it is to enclose it in small 
bags, or pads, each containing a couple of handfuls 
of the bark. Make several of these, keeping one for 
white flannels, cloths, etc., one for colored, one for 
black. The pads should be made of cheese-cloth. 

Spread the article to be cleaned upon a table cov- 
ered with a clean white cloth. Have under your 
hand a bowl of tepid water in which you have stirred 
a tablespoonful of household ammonia. Dip your 
pad in this and hold there until soaked through. 
Wash the soiled gown or coat or trousers, with the 
wet pad, rubbing gently upon the spots. Then, with 



60 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

a piece of dry flannel, or other woolen stuff, rub the 
whole surface dry, changing the cloth as it gets wet. 

If the washing and wiping be done well, you will 
be amazed at the dirt that conies away, and the re- 
newed look of the thing treated. Boys' cloth trous- 
ers, men's every-day coats, girls' school frocks of 
serge, "mother's" working-day gown of black de- 
laine, or merino, may be cleaned at home, with 
wonderfully little labor, and no expense beyond the 
purchase of ten cents' worth of soap-bark. 

I lay much stress upon the department of domestic 
cleaning of materials not classed as washable, because 
the prices charged by professional cleaners are 
cruelly heavy to people of moderate means. It is a 
time-worn adage that the best thing is the cheapest 
in the long run. In subscribing to the truth of the 
platitude, I add a proviso : — The best thing must be 
cared for as befits its value, or it is not cheap. Dirt 
is a costly condition in any circumstances. The lack 
of personal cleanliness invites disease and doctor's 
bills. The soaping, rubbing, boiling, rinsing and 
wringing needed to bring a badly soiled garment 
back to decency, tell upon its integrity more than a 
year of careful wear. It does pay to buy a good 
thing to begin with. It pays far better to use it 
without abusing it, when once bought. It pays well, 
and always, to get the good thing clean when legiti- 
mate wear has soiled it. For really excellent fabrics 
— like the best quality of human virtue — do not go to 
pieces in the wash. 



MONDAY 61 

Lay it down as an axiom that nearly every all- 
wool, pure silk, real linen and round-threaded stuffs 
of whatever kind — will wash if they are handled ju- 
diciously. I had my lesson in the direction of this 
home truth, over forty years ago. I had worn a fine 
white, all-wool grenadine for several months. It 
was as good as it was pretty, and I grieved when it 
finally became so begrimed with town smoke and 
country dust as to be no longer presentable, even for 
rainy-day-at-home wear. I handed it over, with a lot 
of other past worthies, to my gardener's wife who 
had a genius for making over castaways in the cloth- 
ing line for her little brood. . In a few days she came 
to me with a matter that weighed upon her tender 
conscience. Upon her arm she bore the discarded 
gown — so spick-and-span that I could not believe the 
evidence of my eyes. I had apologized for offering it 
to her, saying that nothing could be done with it, but 
she might dye and utilize it for carpet-rags. 

"Seeing it was such nice material and knowing 
that real good stuff always washes well, I just put it 
into the tub, washed it careful, and ironed it while it 
was damp — and will you look at it? And so, feeling 
sure you would not have thrown it away if you had 
guessed what could be made of it, I didn't think it 
was right for me to keep it,"— was the conclusion of 
the honest soul. 

Of course I would not revoke the gift, and the les- 
son was rubbed into my memory by the sight of the 
renovated grenadine made up for the present owner's 



62 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

eldest girl's best gown, worn to church, Sunday after 
Sunday, all that summer. 

Moral : When a garment is too dirty for your use, 
try to get it clean before deciding that its period of 
usefulness in your service is at an end. 



CHAPTER yil 

TUESDAY, 
IRONING-DAY 

If ever the crisp order of the officer-in-command, 
"Clear decks for action!" should be issued and 
obeyed on the domestic frigate, it is on ironing-day. 
If your kitchen be, also, the laundry, the injunction, 
" Stow close!" is added. 

Arrange culinary operations so as to have as little 
cooking done as is consistent with family comfort 
while ironing-table and clothes-horse occupy the cen- 
ter of the stage. A fretful hiss of fat in the direc- 
tion of a flat-iron, or a drip of gravy athwart a 
freshly laundered garment, is a disaster. Pots and 
saucepans crowd the top of the range when you re- 
quire all the available space for the irons. Meat and 
bread are likely to burn in the overheated ovens un- 
less they are watched closely, and nobody has time to 
watch the baking on ironing-day. These solicitudes 
are not fussiness. It is true economy of time and 
nervous forces to devote the greater part of one day 
to the serious task of getting what Yankee house- 
wives used to call, "the brunt of the ironing" out of 
the way of other and lighter duties. And, since this 
branch of domestic service, when begun, must pro- 

63 



64 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

ceed "without haste, without rest" toward comple- 
tion, it behooves all who are to lend a hand in the 
task to plan cannily for each step in a way where not 
one may be skipped. 

An oblong table on which sheets and table-cloths 
may be spread at half-length, is a "must have" to 
the trained laundress. The regulation ironing- 
board, supported at each end by stout legs attached 
to the board, and folding under it when not in use — ■ 
or by the more primitive method of resting the board 
on the backs of two chairs — is all-sufficient for 
smaller articles, but as a foundation upon which 
heavy bed- and table-linen are to be manipulated it 
is a clumsy contrivance. Even when a clean sheet, 
kept for the purpose, is spread on the floor to keep 
the trailing folds from the dust, the necessity of fre- 
quent shif tings of counterpane or table-cloth to bring 
every part of it under the iron' in its turn, adds sen- 
sibly to the labor qf her who wields it. 

Table, and ironing- and bosom-boards must be 
covered with folds of flannel, or with an old blanket, 
in order to secure the degree of elastic firmness 
requisite to produce the soft glossiness pleasant to 
the housewifely eye. The jar upon the worker's 
joints and muscles is much less for the slight yield- 
ing of the woolly substratum. Over this tack 
smoothly a stout cotton sheet made fast to the under- 
side of the board. This covering must be invariably 
clean. Damp cloths and hot iron will betray any 
stain or dust by transferring it to the article under 



TUESDAY 65 

treatment. A scorch is a stain— a fact lost sight of 
by many a laundress who does not renew the "iron- 
ing-sheet" until it is dropping to pieces under the 
vigor of her polishing strokes, and as sere as a No- 
vember oak-leaf. Then she wonders that her clothes 
are "dingied" in spite of her painstaking. 

Have at the laundress' right hand a trivet, or ring, 
on which to set the iron in the intervals between 
active operations, and beneath it a square of asbestos. 

If you can not get asbestos, use a flat stone. A 
homely but efficient appliance for setting the iron on, 
and likewise for cleaning it is a piece of unpainted 
wire netting, such as is sold for window-screens, 
folded into a square of five or six thicknesses. It 
keeps irons free from rust if they be rubbed briskly 
on it now and then, and holds the heat for them. 

Within easy reach of the worker lay a block of 
folded wrapping paper on which to wipe the iron and 
to test its heat, and with the paper a cloth for re- 
moving dust and chance flakes of soot from the 
handle and top. A bit of beeswax or spermaceti, or, 
best of all, paraffin, should lie in a saucer near by. 
It imparts gloss to the iron but it should be used 
sparingly. An asbestos holder is an excellent thing, 
but any thick square, made of folds of flannel, Can- 
ton flannel, bed-ticking, calico — anything which will 
play the part of a non-conductor of the heat of the 
iron to the hand — will answer the purpose of the 
average laundress. The chief advantage of asbestos 
over the substances named is that a single fold laid 



66 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

between two pieces of woolen or cotton stuff, will 
protect the hand, and be less clumsy than a multi- 
plicity of thicknesses. 

Should the irons be rough from disuse or damp- 
ness, rub them on a smooth board, on which has been 
strewed table salt. If they are in regular use and 
kept in a dry place when not employed, they will 
need no more friction than will be given by the wire 
netting spoken of just now. 

In preparing the clothes — dried and dampened 
and folded — for the ironing table, sort them intelli- 
gently, laying each kind in the order in which it is 
to be ironed. There is no surer token of inexperi- 
ence or slovenliness than when a laundress pulls out 
the contents of her clothes-basket, helter-skelter, to 
get at some articles left in the bottom which she 
would like to "do" first, or drags out whatever comes 
to hand and by whatever corner, tumbling all the rest 
into a damp, disorderly pile. In folding down yes- 
terday's wash, she should have laid it in the order 
in which she is to attack it to-day. 

Begin with a couple of pillow-cases or towels — 
plain ironing — to make sure that your apparatus is 
in good running order ; then take the fine, starched 
clothes, while day and energies are at their freshest. 
If there are embroideries, pull every scallop and 
point into shape. If they are too dry to be pliable, 
dampen with a sponge dipped into a bowl of warm 
water. This is another reachable accessory essential 
to the ironing-day outfit. When the embroidery is 



TUESDAY 67 

quite ready for the iron, press steadily and hard on 
the wrong side, bearing your weight full upon the 
implement. Iron steadily and not fast. It is not 
imperatively necessary that you should thump ! The 
rhythmic bump ! bump ! bump ! rising from the scene 
of operations from morn to dewy eve of ironing-day 
reminds the well-read mistress of muffled drums 

"Beating funeral marches to the grave." 

I can answer for one who has hardened to the 
lugubrious boom until nerves and patience gave way. 
I have in mind one strenuous and well-meaning laun- 
dress, who, in six months, battered the mortar and 
lath wall against which she chose to set her table, 
until it looked like the track left by a cannon-ball 
upon the outer fortifications of a besieged town. 

As you iron (without thumping!) table- and bed' 
linen, handkerchiefs and towels, fold, and press the 
folds into sharp, clean, straight creases, They will 
look neater and keep fresh longer for this final touch. 
When they have received it and are satisfactory in 
your sight, lay the smaller articles aside in neat piles. 
Hang the larger upon the clothes-horse to dry per- 
fectly and to get the full benefit of the air. Do this, 
with care not to wrinkle them, and handle as gin- 
gerly when the hour comes for taking down the 
sweet, thoroughly dried clothes, and ranging them 
in orderly array in the hampers or trays in which the 
harvest of your two days' toil is to be carried to the 
garner of linen-press and bureau-drawers. 



68 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

I have known of households in the South where it 
was the pretty custom to drop a bit of orris-root tied 
in a cloth, into the boiler with the handkerchiefs, 
body-clothes and pillow-cases. It imparted what the 
French call a "soupgon," and we try to express by 
our translation of the word into a "suspicion," of 
violet breath, faint, yet unmistakable and exquisite. 
It is so subtly suggestive as to make the lavender- 
scented sheets of our foremothers almost vulgar by 
comparison. IA dainty conceit, as I have said, and 
stories of the elder days, when people took time to 
be " esthetic," as we phrase it now — make loving 
mention of lavender and dried rose-leaves lurking 
among the folds of linen sheets, fine as cobwebs. The 
big chests in which the flaxen treasures were hoarded 
from one generation to another, were redolent of 
these and of Spanish cedar linings. In our prosaic 
age we hold that clean linen should have no scent but 
that of its own ineffable purity. We contend, too, 
that it should be kept well-aired. There are icono- 
clasts who hint that the nameless odor, reminiscent 
of East Indian spices, and native rose-petals and 
gray lavender-blooms, and auld lang syne generally, 
that brought a lump to the returned wanderer's 
throat, and poetry to his tongue — was largely com- 
pounded of must and dead air. So we make a point, 
and a sharp one, of admitting the winds of heaven 
freely to our linen-closets, and when we can afford 
the space, make the closet a windowed room. In the 
interests of modern sanitation, we write it down as a 



TUESDAY 69 

rule without exception that linen (I use the word in 
the generic sense) that has a smell when it is put 
away as clean, is unwholesome. It was washed im- 
properly, or the taint of cold cookery clings to it, or 
it was imperfectly ventilated before it was consigned 
to the clothes-basket as a graduate from the laundry. 

Returning to our ironing-table, let me say a word 
of my own judgment as to sheets, linen and cotton. 
Certain latter-day writers on physiology, hygiene 
and cognate themes, deprecate ironing them except 
at the hems. One authority, too eminent to be lightly 
questioned, asks boldly and baldly : 

"Why iron them at all? Fold them in the middle, 
then across again ; lay on the table and smooth with 
your hand as you fold. Finally, press the hems with 
a hot iron and hang the sheets up to air. Can't you 
see the sanitary wisdom of all this? The air circu- 
lates freely between the meshes that are not crushed 
flat. You will sleep more healthfully between un- 
ironed bed-clothes." 

Our Eminent Authority may be in the right, and I 
may be an unsanitary, unprogressive Sybarite, 
wedded to ideals which advanced thinkers and doers 
have long ago cast to the moles and bats. For, I will 
have my sheets ironed all over and faithfully. "Same 
as a pocket-handkercher!" as I overheard a char- 
woman say who was hired to assist the laundress. 

Consulting Mrs. Parsons McPherson's capital lit- 
tle manual, Ethics of Household Economy (which 
should have a place in every housemother's library), 



70 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

I note that even she discourages the "waste of time, 
strength and fuel" involved in the ironing of sheets. 
Yet she adds : "If they are for your spare bed, then 
iron the whole surface." 

Catching at this goodly straw, I elect to regard my 
especial and well-beloved couch — my friend and com- 
forter — as a spare bed. In my stubborn old-fash- 
ionedness, I rest better and maintain my self-respect 
more surely despite "crushed meshes," when I "lay 
me down to sleep" between sheets that have been 
thoroughly aired and retain the smoothness and crisp 
creases made by the swift passage of a hot iron 
throughout their length and breadth. 

"If I were Queen of France, 
Or, what's better, Pope of Eome, — " 

I should have my sheets renewed daily, always sleep- 
ing within fair, fresh linen in summer, cambric in 
winter, ironed all over, and on both sides. The 
crushed meshes may be non-sanitary. Hence, they 
may be naughty. They are nice ! 

If you would keep the irons in perfect order, wash 
them when the last bit of work is disposed of for the 
day, wiping them dry, and set them away in a dry 
closet where they will gather neither dampness nor 
grime during their rest time. If any moisture clings 
to them from the washing, it will tell the tale of neg- 
lect the first time they are used. It is prudent to 
leave them on the range for a few minutes after wip- 
ing them, to make assurance sure. 



TUESDAY 71 

Wind an old sheet around the ironing boards and 
put aside where you will not stumble over them and 
where they will not get dirty for the rest of the week. 
The precaution will save annoying delay and extra 
work the following Tuesday. 

If the weather has been clear and fine, and the 
laundry is airy, the clothes may be taken up-stairs 
on the evening of the day in which they were ironed. 
If you have no room except the kitchen to do your 
laundry work in, and there is no hall or disused room 
in some other part of the house where the things may 
be aired overnight, do not leave them down-stairs to 
absorb the smells of cooking and greasy dish-water. 
We are all of us unpleasantly familiar with what we 
have never found a better name for than "the kitchen 
smell." It means cold fried grease, the reek of hot 
suds in which soiled pots and pans have been 
cleansed, and a "blend" of cooked vegetables, tea, 
coffee, hot sweets, and in summer fruit parings and 
cores. No need to proceed with the loathsome 
analysis ! Clothes, washed to the last degree of pu- 
rity, and sterilized from all possible bacterial in- 
fluences by hot irons, if allowed to hang in the 
"blend" for five, eight, or ten hours, during which 
time windows and doors are closed for the night, — 
become hopelessly interpenetrated with the abomina- 
tion, and retain it. 

I have been sickened by it in church, my chance 
neighbor in the next pew exhaling it in whiffs, the 
French scent (at two dollars a bottle) with which 



72 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

she drenched her handkerchief that morning, could 
not "down." I have been put to sleep in sheets, 
beautifully ironed (on both sides!), which gave out 
the vile reek, as they were warmed by the heat of 
my body. I have, times without number, recognized 
the indescribable and as unmistakable effluvia in 
glossy napkins unfolded at private, and at hotel 
tables. 

No matter how strait your cottage or apartment, 
don't, if you can help it, leave your newly-ironed 
clothes, bed-linen and napery to air overnight in a 
close kitchen. The finer the material the more sus- 
ceptible is it to the deadly taint. Even "crushed 
meshes" are not immune. 

Keep a large square of mosquito-netting to throw 
over the laden clothes-horse, draping it so loosely as 
to permit a free passage of air, while it protects the 
articles under it from flies and dust. 

In transferring the clothes to the basket that is to 
take them to their several destinations, consider the 
convenience of her who is to unpack and put them 
away. In common with hundreds of other house- 
mothers, I have, throughout my domestic life, kept 
up the habit of doing this with my own hands, sort- 
ing and inspecting with critical eyes, assigning to 
each room and shelf and closet and drawer its right- 
ful supply of clean "things." I speak from experi- 
ence, therefore, in touching upon the need that each 
article of a kind shall be laid with others of the like 
class. A jumble of handkerchiefs, stockings, skirts, 



TUESDAY 73 

towels and bureau-scarfs is a grievance to the meth- 
odical sorter. When table-linen is added, to the 
"mix," it approximates indecency. 

In folding sheets, contrive, whether they are for 
double or single beds, to have them, when put up, of 
uniform shape and apparent size. They fit more 
evenly upon the shelves where they should be laid 
with the closed folds outward, the open edges toward 
the wall. The difference in the general appearance 
of a linen-closet where this rule is observed and one 
in which towels and sheets are piled on the shelves, 
without regard to it, is so marked as to call for no 
special comment. 



CHAPTEK VIII 

WEDNESDAY 
BAKING-DAY 

"The Home-made Loaf" stands with so many of 
us as a symbol of the wholesome good cheer beloved 
in our childhood's days that we are disposed to class 
the phrase with traditional open fireplaces, dough- 
nuts, "such as mother used to make," and other rem- 
iniscences of "the days that are no more." In fact, 
it is a family stand-by that should never go out of 
fashion in town and in country. 

One feature of our pressing, headlong, breathless, 
national life is that fewer households depend upon 
home-cookery with every year that rushes by. The 
rage for contract work and specialties has crept, like 
blood-poison, into every department of domestic 
service. "What Douglas Jerrold stigmatized as "the 
Greatest Plague of Life," in driving thousands of 
families into hotels and boarding-houses, has per- 
verted their taste for home-made bread, cakes and 
puddings. Vienna rolls and long sticks of crusty 
French bread represent the staff of life upon which 
our ancestors leaned much of their weight. Confec- 
tioners' pastry, flaky and translucent with lard and 
(alleged) butter has superseded the puff-paste our 

74 



WEDNESDAY 75 

mothers compounded with their own dainty hands, 
never intrusting the delicate art to hirelings, no mat- 
ter how capable. Real pound cake is now almost an 
article of virtue, and sponge cake no longer melts in 
the mouth of the enchanted eater. 

In saying that our domestics — of whom a witty 
woman says that they and their employers' evil case 
were foretold two thousand years ago, inasmuch as 
they grow poorer every year and we have them al- 
ways with us — are responsible for the decline and 
fall of home-bakery, I speak by the card. Forty 
years ago, the first question put by the prospective 
mistress to the candidate for the place of cook in her 
kitchen was, "Are you a good baker?" 

The term covered all manner of breads, biscuits, 
muffins and griddle-cakes, family pie-crust (the mis- 
tress, as I have observed, making the finer pastries 
herself), plain cakes, custards and puddings. No 
bread was bought unless the cupboard were emptied 
by sudden calamity. Baker's bread was sawdust and 
starch to the palate accustomed to honest loaf and 
biscuit. Baker's cake was voted by old and young 
" 'tolerable, and not to be endured." Baker's pies 
were inadmissible to any well-ordered table. 

While it is true that bakeries have kept pace with 
the growing demands for their products, and that 
these last have improved in quality no less than in 
quantity, the advance does not justify the scorn with 
which the cook-lady of the twentieth century repels 
the modest suggestion slid by the candidate for the 



76 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S .WEEK 

honor of the cook-lady's residence under her roof, 
between the queries with which the candidate is 
plied, — "Can you make bread?" 

To one such meek suggestion an especially lofty 
personage retorted: 

"An' I take lave to say as yez is the only leddy as 
has iver asked me to do it? The quality all takes 
their bread from the Frinch partisserers. " (Pre- 
sumably patisseries.) 

This is an extreme case, perhaps, but housewives 
will support my assertion that the percentage of 
"competent cooks" who can make sweet, wholesome 
bread is so small, and the unwillingness to do home 
baking so general among our servants as to forecast 
the probability that in another decade no self-re- 
specting cook-lady will condescend to practise the ob- 
solete art. 

Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney (Heaven rest her sweet and 
noble soul!) predicted, a quarter-century ago, that 
the time is near when wives and daughters who per- 
sist in living in homes and not in hostelries, must do 
their own housework. 

I have daily evidence that there are still in these 
United States at least seventy times seven thousand 
women who have not bowed the knee to the Baal of 
folly and fashion, nor kissed him with their lips. 
When home and home-comfort become idle words in 
our country, they will have left the world. 

The inference of all this is plain. If we and our 
Johns abhor the shortened sawdust and sweetened 



starches of the "partisserers," and are determined 
to feed our households with food convenient for 
growing children and hard-working adults, and our 
imported cook-lady will not demean herself to the ex- 
tent of making bread, we must do it ourselves. 

In the pages that are to follow this disquisition, I 
shall try to show that baking is not menial labor, 
when rightly performed. We have illustrious pre- 
cedent for ranking it among the more dignified 
branches of housewifery. Jane Carlyle was born a 
gentlewoman. She may have been a bit of a shrew 
after years of invalidism and Carlyleism had worn 
her nerves to tatters. But she had good blood in her 
veins, and common sense in her pretty head, and 'she 
was a worthy companion in intellect for the most dis- 
tinguished author of his day. He would live in a 
farm-house, secluded from town and society, because 
the sight of visitors and the noise of the streets dis- 
tracted his thoughts from his writing. His wife — 
well-born and delicately reared — had to do the cook- 
ing for a dyspeptic husband, including what she, at 
first, railed at as a degradation — the mixing, raising 
and baking of the loaves, brown and white, that made 
up, with oatmeal porridge, the staple of her lord's 
diet. 

"When, on winter nights, the dough rose slowly, she 
sat up with it, as she would with a sick child. In one 
of these dreary vigils, she had a revelation. She was 
as well-read in certain lines as the great scholar to 
whom she was bound, and she had not to explain her 



78 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

meaning when she wrote to him of her revelation, the 
next morning. 

"After all, in the sight of the higher Powers, what 
is the mighty difference between a statue of Perseus 
and a loaf of bread, so that each be the thing that 
one's hand has found to do? The man's determined 
will, his patience, his energy, his resource, were the 
really admirable things of which his statue of Per- 
seus were the mere chance expression. If he had 
been a woman living at Craigenputtock, with a dys- 
peptic husband, sixteen miles from a baker, all these 
same qualities would have come out more fully in a 
good loaf of bread." 

It would seem to be a far cry from the Italian 
sculptor, sleepless and wan with anxiety, awaiting 
the action of the furnace fire upon the bronze that 
was to win for him immortal renown, and the tired 
cook in the Scottish kitchen, who could not go to bed 
until the dough in the kneading-trough had doubled 
the original bulk. But the sharp-witted reader of 
the classic anecdote took the flight in fancy, and drew 
comfort from the inspiration. 

Of Emily Bronte's soul Swinburne says, — 

' ' It knew no fellow for might, 
Passion, vehemence, grief, 
Daring, — since Byron died." 

Not the least interesting spot in the old Yorkshire 
Parsonage where the wonderful sisters wrought and 
suffered and died, is the corner of the quaint kitchen 



WEDNESDAY 79 

where Emily was wont to stand on baking-day, 
kneading the dough with strong deft hands, her 
shapely arms bared to the elbow, her eyes fixed, in 
the intervals of the task, upon the German book 
propped against the wall "out of reach of flour-dust 
or spatter of yeast." She did all the baking of the 
family that had a dyspeptic father as its head. 

Her learned preceptor in the Continental school in 
which she studied music and foreign languages, be- 
coming proficient in everything to which she bent her 
mind, said: "She is too great for a woman. She 
should have been a man — a great navigator." One 
biographer writes: "Her reason was powerful, and 
in grasp sublime ; her turn for logical demonstration 
was phenomenal." 

Her humble neighbors in that hamlet on the York- 
shire moors knew her but as the "Parson's daughter 
who made the best bread in Haworth." I have 
talked with them and heard their commendation of 
her housewifery, particularly of her beautiful darn- 
ing and her "main good luck in baking." 

I recalled it all when a woman sneered, the other 
day, at my talk of bringing housework up to our 
level, instead of letting it pull us down to a lower 
plane. 

Now for the details of one of the most important 
branches of our housemother's profession: 

The fundamental principle of every species of the 
genus bread — the informing and vivifying life of 
loaf, biscuit or muffin — is that which makes it rise! 



80 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Dear old stories of the Scottish peasantry make fre- 
quent mention of "barm." Our American fore- 
mothers held yeast-making to be an essential branch 
of housewifely art. It was a domestic calamity when 
the weekly brew failed, and not an uncommon occur- 
rence for a messenger to be sent to a neighbor a mile 
away, for a cupful of lively yeast as a "starter" of 
the new supply for the luckless cook. 

Compressed yeast, patented by a wealthy corpo- 
rate body and sold in every township, has changed 
all that. Sometimes the yeast-cake is fresh. Some- 
times it is stale. In the latter case the cook has no 
redress. In the depths of my housewifely conscience 
I have grave doubts as to the quality of the patented 
yeast-cake when compared with the creamy spume 
that rushed into sight when "mother's" yeast jug 
was uncorked. I have misgivings that the bread is 
not so sweet and tender as in the day that antedated 
telephone, trolleys and baking-powders. 

Right sure I am that if I lived in the country the 
year round, and did my own baking, I should not sink 
into dependence upon the green dog-cart that drops 
the yeast-cake at the kitchen door twice a week. I 
should make my own yeast, as I did thirty years 
agone. I thought it no hardship then. You, my very 
much younger pupil, whose righteous soul is sore 
vexed by the shortcomings of patent "raisers," will 
win peace of mind and certainty of right results 
which will more than compensate for the labor, if 
you will make your own yeast. In the fond hope of 



WEDNESDAY 81 

persuading you into this step, I append to this famil- 
iar talk, directions for preparing old-fashioned, hon- 
est home-made "barm,"-Anglice — yeast. 

HOP YEAST 

Peel six potatoes of fair size, taking care to have 
the skins as thin as possible, as much of the starch of 
the potato lies nearest the outside covering. Tie a 
large cupful of good fresh hops in a bit of cheese- 
cloth, and put with the potatoes into a pot containing 
two quarts of cold water. Cover, and boil until the 
potatoes break to the heart. Lift them with a skim- 
mer, leaving the hop-bag in the water, and the water 
on the fire. Mash the hot potatoes in a bowl, and 
work into them four tablespoonfuls of flour and two 
of granulated sugar. Moisten this paste with the 
boiling hot tea, from the pot, stirring to a smooth 
batter. When you have used up the tea, squeeze the 
bag hard into the batter to get out all the strength of 
the hops. Let the mixture get lukewarm, add four 
tablespoonfuls of lively yeast, or if this be your first 
barm-making, a yeast-cake, dissolved in warm water. 
Strain the batter through a colander to free it from 
possible lumps, and turn into an open bowl to 
"work." Throw a piece of mosquito netting over it 
to exclude the dust, and set in a moderately warm 
place until next day. In warm weather six hours will 
be sufficient for fermentation and quiescence. When 
it no longer casts up bubbles to the surface, put into 
glass jars, fit on the tops and store in the refriger- 



82 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

ator, the cellar, or the ice-house. It is well to use 
pint jars, as they should be opened as seldom as is 
practicable. When you are ready to mix bread, take 
out the quantity you need, close the jar and return 
immediately to the ice or the cellar. Never bring the 
jar into the warm kitchen. This yeast will keep good 
for a fortnight in summer, for a month in winter, if 
kept closely corked, or covered with air-tight tops. 

POTATO YEAST 

The taste and odor of hops are so disagreeable to 
some persons that they can detect— or imagine that 
they can — the flavor in bread raised with hop, other- 
wise called "brewer's yeast." For the benefit of 
such, and because the substitute is like rich cream in 
appearance, pleasing to the eye and making beauti- 
fully white bread — also for the use of housewives 
who can not get hops at call — I offer this variation 
upon the original "barm." 

Pare six fine mealy potatoes. (Old and waxy pota- 
toes do not make good yeast.) Put over the fire in 
two quarts of cold water and boil to breaking. Strain 
them out without stirring, and return the water to 
the fire. Mash the potatoes fine, with four table- 
spoonfuls of flour and two of sugar. In doing this, 
add the boiling water from the pot, gradually until 
all is used. When the batter is lukewarm, stir in a 
cupful of lively yeast, set aside in an open vessel to 
work, and throw a square of netting over it to keep 
out dust and insects. When it ceases to bubble, put 



WEDNESDAY 83 

the yeast into small jars, cover and keep in a cool 
place. 

HOME-MADE YEAST CAKES 

Pare and slice eight fine mealy potatoes, and put 
into two quarts of cold water with a cupful of fresh 
hops tied in a cheese-cloth bag. Boil forty-five min- 
utes after the bubble begins. Take out the hop bag, 
straining and squeezing it hard to get out all the 
strength. Pour the hop-tea and the potatoes into a 
bowl through a colander, rubbing the potatoes well 
until all have passed the holes. Set back on the fire 
and stir into the mixture two cups of flour wet up 
with cold water. Take from the fire, and cool to 
blood warmth, after beating smooth. Add two great 
spoonfuls of lively yeast, throw a bit of netting over 
the open bowl and let it rise. It should quadruple 
the original bulk. Now, knead into the paste a cup- 
ful of white Indian meal ; roll out into a sheet a quar- 
ter-inch thick, and cut into round cakes. Dry in 
the hot sun in summer, in an open oven in winter. 
They must be dried — not baked. To cook them 
would vitiate their vitality. It is a good plan to put 
them into a cooling oven at bedtime, and leave them 
there until morning. When quite dry, put into a 
muslin bag and hang them in a cool, dry place. 

If properly made and thoroughly dried, they keep 
for a month without losing strength. 

Use as you would patent yeast cakes. A cake the 
size of an ordinary tumbler will make two loaves. 
Soak soft in lukewarm water, stir in a mere pinch 
of soda^ and work into the dough. 



CHAPTEE IX 

Wednesday (Concluded) 

BBEAD-MAKING 

Before entering upon the actual process of mak- 
ing the loaf, have all materials in readiness. The 
work should proceed by regular stages, with no need- 
less delays. 

In no way does the unmethodical housewife ad- 
vertise indifferent "management" more plainly than 
by neglect of the simple rule : Have your tools and 
stuff laid to your hand before you begin the work 
laid out for you. The* woman who has to make 
a separate journey to cupboard, pantry, refrigerator 
or cellar for each ingredient, wonders why she finds 
cookery so much more exhausting than her neigh- 
bors do. Such an one complained to me that she had 
to wash her hands four times while she was making 
one cake: 

"You know you just can't bear to take hold of a 
door-knob, or turn a key with sticky, floury hands." 

If I bethought myself that she would not have 
been obliged to touch knob or key, had sugar, eggs, 

84 



WEDNESDAY 85 

flour, milk and spices been collected and "in beau- 
teous order ranged" on the table beside her, flanked 
by egg-beater, bowls and spoon — I kept my counsel 
to myself. Nobody thanks her friendliest friend for 
gratuitous advice. It was none of my business if 
she washed her hands forty-four times in an hour, 
and was so tired by the time the cake was in the oven 
that she had to lie down for the rest of the forenoon. 

Next in importance to yeast among the tools and 
stuffs for bread-making is flour. Of course, none 
but the best quality should be used for the loaf. Ex- 
perienced bakers will assure you that, while it is pos- 
sible to make fairly good biscuits and very good 
griddle-cakes of the second best brand, the attempt 
to manufacture risen bread of it would be time, labor 
and materials thrown away. The general principle 
is sound. When you can procure the best family 
flour, and afford to pay the market price for it, get 
it, by all means. Now and then this is not feasible. 
Or, as sometimes happens, the "best" belies the 
name. 

Test it by taking up a handful and squeezing it 
hard. If it retains the impress of palm and fingers, 
and has, moreover, the feeling of powdered chalk, 
or lime, when rubbed between thumb and finger, or 
if it has any odor whatever — it is not fine "family 
flour." If you can not exchange it, you may im- 
prove it to a degree that will make it tolerable. 

One of the faults of flour which should have been 
excellent, having been ground from ripe, sound, well- 



86 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

frried wheat, is that it was not thoroughly seasoned 
when it was packed in the barrel. It was barreled 
in damp weather, or so soon after grinding that what 
some call "the mineral heat," was not quite out of it. 
To overcome this disadvantage, transfer from bag 
or barrel, to another receptacle. Take out several 
quarts at a time, sift it and pour into a box or into ' 
two barrels, letting it lie lightly, to correct the effect 
of tight packing while it was damp. If you have 
but a small quantity on hand, sift it twice and set it 
in the open oven for twenty minutes, or thereabouts, 
stirring and tossing it frequently while the drying 
is going on. Some good cooks give every baking the 
benefit of this process, insisting that it makes good 
flour better, and corrects indifferent. The flour 
should be cooled before it is mixed into dough. 

POTATO SPONGE BREAD 

lAIlow four potatoes of fair size to a baking which 
will require three quarts of flour. Boil and mash 
them while hot, working into the pasty mass a table- 
spoonful of butter and as much white sugar. Thin 
with three cupfuls of warm (not hot) water ; strain 
through a fine colander to get out the lumps, and 
add, a handful at a time, a pint of dry, sifted flour. 
Now, put in the yeast — half a cupful if it be liquid, 
or half a cake of compressed yeast. The cake should 
have been dissolved in a little lukewarm water. 
Beat the mixture for three or four minutes— hard ! 
I hope you have a bread pan or bowl with a perfor- 



WEDNESDAY 87 

ated top. If not, throw a clean, light towel over 
the sponge bowl, and set in a rather warm place, 
where there will be no violent change of temperature 
during the eight hours in winter, the six hours in 
summer needed to raise it. 

If all be well with the sponge, you will see, when 
the cover is lifted, a rough, porous mass which justi- 
fies its name. It should have trebled, perhaps 
quadrupled the original bulk, and, when handled, 
should break into tender ropes. Should the gas es- 
caping from the crevices made by the hand, have an 
acrid or sour odor, dissolve half a teaspoonful of 
soda in warm water, and beat it thoroughly into the 
sponge. If the beating be superficial, you will have 
streaked bread — a sure sign of slovenly baking. 

Sift two quarts and a pint of dry flour into a 
bread-tray or a big bowl. It must be clean and dry. 
If you use a wooden tray, scald and sun after each 
using. If a metal bowl, do the same. Hollow out 
the center, leaving a deep pit. Pour the sponge 
into this, and work the flour down into it with a 
wooden spoon. When the spoon can no longer man- 
age it, wash your hands in cold water, wipe them 
dry and begin kneading. See to it, at this juncture, 
that the dough is soft and pliable. It should fall 
from the fingers when lifted, in graceful streamers, 
instead of in clumsy gouts. In a word, mix the 
dough as soft as it can be handled. To get the full 
benefit of the sponge which is the life of the bread, 
rinse out the bowl in which it was raised, with warm 



88 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

water, and add to the dough. If the dough be of 
the proper consistency, you will find it leaving the 
sides of the tray of itself as the kneading goes on. 
Work it into a ball, and thump it with the double 
fists, lustily, aiming every blow at the heart of the 
lump, and turning as you strike it. It is fine exer- 
cise, and more graceful than swinging dumb-bells. 
Don't be afraid of dealing too vigorously with your 
subject. It likes it! and grows in comeliness under 
it. In fifteen minutes, if you have dealt justly with 
it, you will have an elastic ball that springs back 
gaily from each attack. If you thrust a finger into 
it, the hole closes instantly. 

Make the dough into a round mass ; sprinkle flour 
in the bottom of the bowl, or tray, and over the 
dough; put on the perforated cover, or throw the 
cloth over the bowl, and set by for a first rising. In 
warm weather the time required for this varies from 
three to four hours. In cold weather it may not be 
accomplished under six. You must have a knead- 
ing-board for the next stage of the fine art. The 
board must be absolutely clean, free from signs of 
former usage, and guiltless of the rancid smell which 
in households I have known seems to be accepted as 
a necessity. Bread, at any period of development, 
is intensely sensitive to uncleanness of any kind. It 
absorbs tastes, odors, dampness and must, with in- 
credible rapidity. The kneading-board should be 
used for nothing outside of its legitimate purpose. 
As soon as the dough is off, it should be scraped 



WEDNESDAY 89 

clean, scalded, then wiped dry, lastly set in the sun. 
If the day be cloudy, leave it upright on a chair 
near the fire until it is dried to the heart. 

A slab of marble is better for kneading bread than 
wood. Nor is the substitute as costly as one might 
suppose. In many an attic, or among the rubbish in 
the builder's back-shop, may be found the top of a 
table, or washstand, or part of a discarded mantel, 
that may be utilized by our housewife. Marble tops 
have "gone out," and such remnants of what our 
grandmothers considered elegant plenishing, may be 
had for the asking, or the finding. Or, squares of 
refuse marble may be bought for a trifle at marble 
yards. 

The advantage of marble over hard woods is the 
superior cleanliness, first, and mainly. It does not 
absorb dirt and odors, and is easily cleansed. A 
secondary recommendation is the coldness of the 
stone. This will be appreciated most highly by the 
pastry-maker, but it is a good thing in bread-making 
also. 

The kneading-table, board or slab is sprinkled with 
flour, and the ball of dough is transferred to it. If 
the first kneading were a pretty task, the present 
business is prettier. Working always from your 
body, punch and toss and roll the yielding mass, 
now so elastic that it is a joy to handle it. It does 
not adhere to well-floured hands, and it grows lighter 
and more buoyant with every stroke. 

Fifteen minutes of the play suffices, all else being 



90 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

propitious. Break off bits of the dough, form into 
rolls or into loaves, and arrange in the baking-pans 
for the final raising. Grease the pans well before 
the loaves go in. Cover with light cloths, and let 
the bread rise until it is at least twice as high and 
plump as when it went into the pans. 

While this is going on, see that your ovens are 
getting ready to do their part in the worthy work. 
Heat them thoroughly, and so manage the stored heat 
that it shall not fail you while the baking is in pro- 
gress. There must be coal or wood enough in the 
range to last until the bread is ready to be withdrawn 
from the oven. To lower the temperature by put- 
ting in fresh fuel, would be disastrous. Test the 
heat by holding your bare arm in the open oven while 
you count twenty-five deliberately, or, by setting a 
tin plate containing a little flour at the back of the 
oven, and shutting the door. Look at it in five min- 
utes. If it has begun to brown delicately, it is safe 
to risk your bread to the steady oven's care. 

In ten or twelve minutes more, open the door an 
inch or two, and glance at the bread. When it has 
filled the pans, cover with clean white or brown pa- 
per (never with printed or written sheets) of light 
weight. Heavy paper would hinder the rising, and 
adhere to the crust. The philosophy of the paper 
covering is that the crust, if formed before the bread 
has gained its full height, would make the center of 
the loaf heavy. Neglect of the simple precaution 
accounts for many a streaked and soggy loaf. 



WEDNESDAY 91 

Ten or twelve minutes before the bread is taken 
from the oven remove the paper to let the crust 
brown. A quart loaf will bake in an hour. You 
may test it by running a fine clean knitting-needle 
into the heart of the loaf. 

A little practice will make you familiar with the 
humors, the tricks and the manners of your par- 
ticular oven. It is not practicable to lay down cast- 
iron rules as to the time required to bring bread, 
biscuits and cake to the precise point beyond which 
scorching and hardening begin, and short of which 
lie sogginess, viscidity and general uneatableness. 

In drawing the plump, browned loaves from the 
oven, turn the pan gently upside down upon a clean 
cloth, shaking very slightly, should they adhere at 
any point. Prop each on the edge, leaning against 
a box or wall at an angle that will allow the air to 
pass around them. This will prevent " sweating." 
Wait until they are quite cold before you put theni 
into a bread-box lined with clean cloth. Cover them 
with another clean linen towel. Keep these linen 
towels for this purpose, and this alone, and wash 
them frequently. 

Bread is hardly second to milk and cream as an 
absorbent. One sour slice will impart acidity to the 
rest of the contents of the box. Therefore keep a 
second box for the "heels" of loaves, and scraps 
that may be utilized in puddings, in breading chops 
and croquettes, and thickening bisques. Both tins 
should be scalded and sunned twice a week. 



92 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

MILK BREAD 

Directions for making milk bread are given for 
the benefit of the many who persist in the belief en- 
gendered by country-bred mothers, that it is sweeter, 
moister and more wholesome than bread mixed with 
water. That it sours more quickly weighs nothing 
against the superior quality of the toothsome loaf. 
The novice will do well to try her prentice hand upon 
the following formula, as simpler, and, mayhap, 
surer in results than the Potato bread. 

Scald — without actually boiling — two cups of milk 
and stir into it a tablespoonful of butter. While it 
is cooling to blood-warmth, sift two quarts of flour 
into a mixing bowl, adding, prior to sifting, a tea- 
spoonful of white sugar and half as much salt. 
When the milk is lukewarm, add a pint of water of 
the same temperature, and half a cake of compressed 
yeast dissolved in half a cupful of warm water. If 
you use liquid yeast, put in four tablespoonfuls. 
Pour the mixture into a hollow made in the mid- 
dle of the flour, and with a wooden spoon work all 
into a smooth dough. This done, turn the mass upon 
a kneading-board or marble slab, and knead pa- 
tiently and faithfully for ten minutes. It should be 
light and elastic, leaving board and hands without 
sticking. Set to rise in a bread-bowl, with a per- 
forated top. See that it is left in a corner where no 
drafts can reach it — and keep the temperature even. 
If too warm, the dough will sour. If too cold, it 



WEDNESDAY 93 

will refuse to rise. Cooks say that bread-dough 
"takes cold as easily as babies." In six hours your 
dough should be ready for the second rising. Make 
into three or four loaves, knead each portion for 
five minutes and put into a greased pan. Cover 
with a light cloth, and let all stand for an hour longer. 
Bake in a steady oven. 

QUICK BREADS 

Under this head come biscuits of all denomina- 
tions, muffins, griddle-cakes, scones, waffles, buns, 
gems, shortcake — the which, if recipes were written 
out for all of them, would consume the entire space 
alloted for this book and overflow into another vol- 
ume. And — be it borne in mind (I, for one, am 
tempted to forget it) this is not a book of recipes. 

The same general rules are to be observed in the 
manufacture of all quick breads. 

If baking-powder be used, it should be sifted twice 
with the flour before the flour is wet. The salt 
should be sifted at the same time. This precaution 
insures thorough incorporation of the ingredients. 

Baking-soda must not be used in such breads (or 
in cake) unless there appear also in the list of ma- 
terials, some corresponding acid to act, with the al- 
kali, in producing effervescence. Neglect of this 
chemical rule is responsible for biscuits mottled with 
greenish streaks, familiar to commercial travelers 
whose territories include back-country districts, and 
for the bitterish taste of a certain type of baker's 



94 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

cake. Sour milk, molasses, lemon, and other fruit- 
juices, cream of tartar, and raw and cooked fruits 
are some of the agents in common use for the accom- 
plishment of that which makes quick breads light. 
If in reckoning up your ingredients, you note soda 
among them, look for the complemental acid. If it 
be wanting from the list, let the recipe alone. The 
conditions of lightness are absent, and unmitigated 
soda is caustic, unwholesome and unpalatable. 

Quick mixing is another essential in making the 
class of breads and cakes we are considering. Have 
all your materials and tools at hand when you begin 
operations. Sift the flour, cream the butter and 
sugar, and measure spices ; if lemons or oranges, or 
dried fruits are to have a part in the composition, 
they should be ready to go in before you crack an 
egg. After the business is begun it should be car- 
ried forward, without a break, to completion. 

Steady baking is a sine qua non to success. The 
oven should be heated to the right temperature, and 
held at it from the moment biscuits, muffins or cakes 
go in until they are taken out. To add coal while 
baking is in actual process, is to invite disaster. 

The provident and experienced housemother keeps 
on hand a supply of coarse brown or white paper of 
suitable size for covering bread and cakes while they 
are in baking. By the time batter or dough is fairly 
"set" so that the paper will not stick to it, cover, and 
do not remove until you are sure the cake, biscuit 
or muffin is cooked to the core. If obedient to this 



WEDNESDAY 95 

rule, you will have neither streaked cak'e nor burnt 
biscuits. 

Do not open the oven every few minutes "to see 
how the breads are getting on." When you must 
look in to lay the paper over the pans, open the door 
just far enough to admit the hand, slip in the cover- 
ing and shut up the oven as quickly as possible. Do 
this as quietly as you would close the nursery-door 
where a nervous baby is sleeping. Some of the more 
delicate order of breads and cakes are startled out 
of propriety by a heavy tramp upon the kitchen- 
floor, or the bang of an outer door. The violent jar 
of the oven-door will cause the fall of a souffle, a 
meringue, a batch of ''gems," or the hopeless flat- 
tening into sullenness of sponge cake. 

After the bread or cake goes into the oven, do not 
transfer it to another unless it has stiffened into 
consistency so pronounced that the change can not 
make it sink in the center or droop at the sides. If 
it be virtually "done" and needs to be browned in a 
brisker oven, you may risk the change of climate. 
An immature production is almost sure to come to 
grief in the transition. 



CHAPTER X 

THURSDAY 
DETERSIVES 

In this chapter little attention will be paid to what 
one correspondent classifies as "honest, every-day 
dirt." While we live and move and have our daily 
being in a world the very air of which is dust-laden, 
our clothing, our draperies, our napery and our per- 
sons must gather soil and grime. If this were 
evitable, laundries would go out of business. Acci- 
dental stains and discoloration are another branch 
of an important, if disagreeable subject; a branch 
that borders upon the tragic. 

One lively woman writes : 

"So numerous have been the spillings, the slop- 
pings^ the leakages, and the scorchings in my house- 
hold of late that I am more accustomed to the role 
of Lady Macbeth than to any other. I go about, 
with dreary eyes and distraught mien, rubbing at 
real not (alas!) imaginary spots — muttering insane 
ejaculations. My husband threatens to have me thus 
photographed." 

To save other women from the like distraction, I 
offer, herewith, certain detersives that have been 
tried and found faithful, when properly applied. 

96 



THURSDAY 97 

INK SPOTS 

On the shin: Authors, editors, bookkeepers — all 
classes and conditions of men and women who write 
much, should have ever within easy reach, a bottle 
of real spirits of hartshorn. Household ammonia is 
excellent in its way for cleansing clothing, etc. If 
used instantly, it will remove superficial ink stains. 
The pure spirits of ammonia acts quickly and effect- 
ively. 

Keep upon wash-stand or desk a small bottle, with 
a glass or rubber stopper, full of spirits of ammonia. 
If, in filling a fountain-pen, the fingers are black- 
ened, or if the pen leaks, or an ink-stand overflows, 
wet a sponge with hartshorn and wash the spot vig- 
orously. Rinse at once in clear water. Soap sets 
ink and other acid stains. If all traces of the acci- 
dent have not disappeared, repeat the ammonia and 
the rinsing. 

For minor mishaps of this kind, such as an ink- 
smear upon the finger, wet the tip of a sulphur match 
and rub the smirch until it vanishes. The work is 
slower than when ammonia is used, but it is a con- 
venient device when the liquid is not at hand. 

Hand Sapolio will remove ink from the skin. I 
do not recommend the habitual use of this or of other 
gritty soaps for the purpose. They abrade and 
roughen the cuticle. 

For white goods: If your handkerchief be soaked 
with ink, throw while it is still damp, into a strong 



98 THE HOUSEKEEPEB'S WEEK 

solution of spirits of ammonia. Leave it for fifteen 
minutes, rinse in clear, cold water and treat it to 
another bath in a fresh supply of the solution. Wash 
well in this, rinse and lay in the sun to dry. 

Lemon-juice for ink spots: Not many weeks ago 
the babyest member of our household — perhaps 
moved by a hereditary tendency toward ink-slinging 
— divided the contents of an ink bottle impartially 
between the tiles of the bath-room floor and her white 
frock. I was out of the house at the time and knew 
nothing of the accident until the ink stain was twen- 
ty-four hours old. Turning a deaf ear to lamenta- 
tions over the absolute hopelessness of the disaster, 
I saturated the ink spots with lemon-juice, rubbed 
into them all the salt the juice would hold, and spread 
the frock in the hot sun. It lay there all day, kept 
moist by hourly applications of lemon-juice. At 
night it was put to soak in a tub of soft, clean water. 
In the morning it was turned over to the laundress 
with directions to wash it in the usual way. When 
this was done not a trace of the inky flood was left 
upon the muslin. This is but one of many in- 
stances which have proved to me the efficacy of a sim- 
ple, harmless detersive. 

In that last adjective lies one prominent advan- 
tage of this and other vegetable acids for extracting 
stains of any kind. Javelle water, chlorinated soda, 
and indeed, chloride in any form, are unsafe in care- 
less, because inexperienced hands. Unless the fabric 
under treatment be rinsed thoroughly in clear Water 



THURSDAY 99 

within a few minutes after it is submitted to the 
chemical, the latter acts disastrously upon the 
threads. In extracting the color, it weakens the 
stuff. Oxalic acid — although a vegetable product — 
will eat holes in stout linen, cotton or woolen in an 
incredibly brief time unless instantly rinsed out. A 
bath of an hour in lemon-juice would not weaken the 
finest cambric lawn. 

Another household detersive which gains in favor 
with each trial is Cream of tartar. Dampen the 
stains with hot water and rub into them all the cream 
of. tartar they will hold. Leave this on for ten min- 
utes and hold the injured parts taut under a stream 
of boiling water, repeating the process twice. Now, 
lay the wet spots in the hottest sunshine five or six 
hours, keeping them wet. If the stains remain after 
the sunning, soak overnight in pure water and 
repeat the cream of tartar treatment next day. I 
have never known the process to fail, and I have tried 
it upon old and upon fresh ink spots. 

Sour milk : Or buttermilk is a harmless, and often 
effective agent in the work of removing ink-stains. 

Soak the spotted article overnight in lopper milk, 
or, if you can get it, very sour buttermilk. Next 
day, rinse it twice in clear, soft water, and lay it in 
the sun, wetting it hourly with lemon-juice. If the 
ink be not entirely gone repeat the process of soak- 
ing, rinsing and sunning. 

Chlorinated soda: Acts quickly upon ink. A few 
drops, poured upon the stain, will make it vanish al- 



100 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

most entirely in a few minutes. In five minutes, 
rinse well in lukewarm water — using no soap — and 
then twice in cold, clear water. Dry in the sun. 
Where expeditious measures are imperatively de- 
manded it is most valuable. 

Salts of lemon: Also acts quickly. The precau- 
tionary measure of the double rinsing must not be 
neglected for reasons already given. 

Oxalic acid: One of the most potent of detersives, 
is responsible for more bitter disappointments on the 
part of would-be cleaners than any other known to 
the average operator. It will take out ink spots, new 
and old. There is no doubt on that point. It may, 
likewise, be warranted to take out the injured part as 
certainly, if not as rapidly, as the scissors could cut 
it. Yet careful housemothers assure me that they 
have used it for years, without damaging linen, or 
cotton white stuffs. The secret of safety lies, I may 
be allowed to reiterate, in not leaving the acid in the 
material wrought upon long enough to convert a 
blessing into a bane. 

The crystals may be rubbed into the stain with the 
tip of a finger, and boiling water be poured through 
the stain and stuff, slowly, for a minute. Rinse, 
then, in cold water ; rub in more crystals, and repeat 
the scalding and the rinsing until the marks have 
disappeared, or grown so faint that a few hours of 
sunning will efface them entirely. The last rinsing 
before exposing the wet surface to the sun should be 
repeated four times, each time in fresh water. 



THURSDAY 101 

If the solution of oxalic acid be used, wet the stuff 
with it and hold the spot taut in the steam of a 
hard-boiling kettle. If the stain be small, stretch the 
fabric tightly over the mouth of the spout and let the 
steam pour through it for three minutes. Rinse 
twice ; wet again, and hold over the spout. Finally, 
rinse four times and commit to the sun — the surest, 
and the safest of bleachers. 

Chloride of lime: While better known as a 
whitener than as an expunger, will extract ink and 
other stains successfully, if properly applied. The 
following mixture is judicious : 

One pound of chloride of lime to four quarts of 
water. Shake well together and let it stand twenty- 
four hours ; then strain through a clean cotton cloth. 
Add one teaspoonful of acetic acid to one ounce of 
the lime-water and apply to the blot. Absorb the 
moisture with blotting-paper. 

Kerosene and soap: Is a useful combination in 
washing, as we have learned through our laundry 
talks. A friend, in whose housewifely wisdom I have 
implicit faith, contributes a story which I indulge 
myself by repeating in her own words : 

"I want to tell you how my laundress removes ink stains, 
even when the article spotted has been afterward boiled and 
ironed. A dresser scarf having been vainly treated to a milk 
bath and everything else I could hear of as remedial, was thrown 
away. The laundress begged to be allowed to try her way with 
the stains. The scarf was well soaped, rubbing the soap on the 
spots as quickly as possible, then put into a clean pan and about 



102 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

a half-cupful of kerosene poured on it. Enough cold water 
to cover the cloth was added and the pan put at the back of 
the kitchen range to heat slowly." 

It may be necessary to repeat this process, but 
eventually the stain is removed. 

Sweet milk: Produces desirable results when ap- 
plied to wet ink spots. I have removed a big splash 
of ink from a velvet carpet by washing it instantly 
with skim milk. A cupful at a time was applied with 
a sponge saturated to dripping with the milk. As 
fast as the cupful was darkened by the squeezings of 
the sponge, it was thrown away and a fresh supply 
substituted. When no more ink could be sopped up, 
the milk remaining white after each immersion of 
the sponge, the wet place on the carpet was washed 
over and over with clear water, and coated with a 
paste of corn-starch. Three days later, the starch 
was brushed out, and not a trace of the flood of ink 
appeared. 

Some weeks afterward, a similar accident befell a 
handsome embroidered table-cover. The milk was 
brought in within two minutes, and the sponge plied 
vigorously upon the apparent ruin. Then the cloth 
was lifted, the stained part held taut over a bowl of 
clear, lukewarm water and dipped repeatedly in this. 
Next, the cover was laid upon a folded sheet, and 
wiped of superfluous moisture with a soft towel. 
The corn-starch used in the former experiment was 
superseded now by boracic talcum. The cover 
was laid away out of the dust for two days. When 



THURSDAY 103 

the powder was brushed out, keen scrutiny was 
needed to discover any sign of the catastrophe which 
had filled the owner's soul. with dismay. And this, 
although the ground color of the cloth was ecru, and 
the heavy embroidery of vari-colored silks. 

I dwell longer and more emphatically upon this 
gentle detersive for the reason that it may be applied 
to colored fabrics without injury to the most delicate 
tints. Whereas, the majority of the extractors I 
have enumerated can be used upon "white goods" 
alone. They draw out the body color with the ink. 

Just one word more in regard to taking out rust 
stains. If the garment or article having the rust on 
is put into water in which a few teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar have been stirred, and boiled in it 
for a few minutes, the rust will disappear and the 
goods be as clear as before it was damaged. Of 
course, I suppose the goods to be white. I will not 
answer for any color. It matters not whether the 
sun shines or not. Your garment is cleaned and no 
harm done, as the cream of tartar does not injure 
the daintiest fabric. 

Rub with tartaric acid while wet to remove spots 
from linen, or dip in boiling water, rub with salts 
of sorrel and rinse well. To remove ink from cot- 
ton, silk or woolen goods, saturate the spot with spir- 
its of turpentine and let it remain several hours ; then 
rub between the hands. It will crumble away with- 
out injuring the color or texture of the article. 

A housewife of sense and experience, supplies, at 



104 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

my request, a corroborative bit of domestic his- 
tory : 

"The following was used on a pink chambray with excellent 
results: Take a glass or cup and hold the goods firmly over 
it; wet the spot well with fresh milk, permitting the fluid to 
pass through the cloth into the cup; then rub the juice of a 
lemon into the cloth, working it well in with the end of the 
finger; alternate milk and lemon-juice, and I think the spot 
will come out, the color remain and the goods be perfectly whole. 
As I say, I used this to take out an ink spot, fully the size 
of a dollar, from the sleeves of a pink chambray waist, and 
the pink of the goods did not fade in the least. The ink had 
not been washed into the cloth, however, but was several days 
old when I attempted to take it out. My sister tried it on a 
blue lawn, and it was completely successful. The ink came out 
and the blue stayed in." 

Grain alcohol: Will remove inK, also liquid shoe- 
polish, if applied promptly. The goods must be lit- 
erally "soused" in the fluid, and the latter be poured 
through it again and again, then rubbed with a clean 
linen cloth. 

Butter: If ink spots be rubbed on both sides of 
the material with butter, left untouched overnight, 
and then washed in the usual way, no trace of them 
will remain when the article is dry. 

COFFEE, TEA AND FRUIT STAINS 

Coffee and fruit stains are easily managed if, as 
soon as they are made, the soiled article be held 
tightly over a basin of hot water and wet thoroughly, 
and boiling water at the same time be poured through 



THURSDAY 105 

the stain, once and again. The blemish will be 
washed away in less time than it takes to tell you how 
to do it. 

Neither coffee, nor tea stains need be the bugbear 
housewives make of them. Both disappear in the 
family wash if this be tolerably well conducted. 

Glycerin: Coffee stains even where there is cream 
in the coffee, may be removed from delicate silk and 
woolen fabrics by the aid of pure glycerin. Brush 
the glycerin on the spots, then wash them with luke- 
warm water and press on the wrong side with a warm 
iron. The glycerin absorbs both the coloring matter 
and the grease. 

Chloroform, alcohol and ammonia: Black coffee 
stains and those made by clear strong tea, will yield 
to what I rank as the best " cleanser" I have ever 
tried. I mean a wash made of equal parts of alcohol, 
chloroform (or ether) and the admixture of a table- 
spoonful of household ammonia to a quart of the com- 
pound. It should leave no mark on the stuff, and 
the ammonia has a tendency to restore the color if it 
has been changed by the hot liquid. v 

Fruit stains may be removed by any of the means 
suggested for eradicating ink. The ugliest and most 
obstinate of fruit spots are amenable to the some- 
what heroic treatments here indicated: 

Lay them in hot water, in which a generous hand- 
ful of borax has been dissolved. Leave them thus 
for ten minutes, then rub and wring, and lay them 
damp upon the grass in the hot sun for the rest of 



106 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

the day, wetting them every hour with the borax 
water. Rinse them in pure water and hang up for 
the night. Next day, cover with lemon- juice and 
salt made into a paste, and leave them again in the 
sun, wetting every hour with lemon-juice. At night 
throw them into a tub of pure water, and leave them 
there all night. Do them up with borax soap in the 
usual way. 

The following process has, once and again, re- 
moved ink and peach stains, mildew and iron mold 
from my clothing and household linen. It will not 
rot the dainty lingerie. 

Cover with a paste of salt and lemon- juice and lay 
in the sun all day, wetting every hour with the lemon- 
juice. At night wash with clean water and hang up. 
Next day renew the application. The process is 
slow, but sure and safe. 

A weak solution of chloride of lime will remove 
stain of peaches or any other fruit stain. Lay the 
stained articles in the solution for about three min- 
utes, then take out and rinse in cold water. Send 
to the wash and the stains will be removed. 

Chloride of lime is so caustic in its action upon 
delicate fabrics that great caution must be observed 
in the use of what is an excellent detersive. In pre- 
paring the weak solution here prescribed it is well 
to be on the safe side; better that it should be too 
weak than so strong as to eat into the threads of the 
linen. Prepare the solution, bottle it, test the 
strength upon a bit of linen stained for the purpose, 



THURSDAY 107, 

and keep the mixture closely corked for summer 
use. 

Javelle water: Is really but a modification of the 
foregoing, and is to be managed in the same way. 
It is singularly effective in removing the unsightly 
yellowish-brown splotches made by peaches and 
pears. These are so treacherous and unexpected 
that we hold them in especial dislike. Invisible, 
when unwary fingers are touched to apron, napkin 
or table-cloth, they start into hideousness under the 
hands of the horrified laundress, and defy mild meas- 
ures that are efficacious in the warfare against ink, 
rust, and even mildew. 

RUST AND MILDEW 

Javelle water will dispose speedily of rust and 
mildew. Yet I prefer to subject my fine linen 
and muslins, disfigured by iron rust, or the . un- 
mistakable tokens of the laundress' carelessness, to 
the gradual influence of lemon and salt and butter- 
milk, joined to the operation of bright sunshine and 
brisk airs upon hurt and marred things. It takes 
more time, but my linens are sounder and whiter 
when my favorite agencies have had their way. 

AXLE GREASE 

Axle grease is another peculiarly obnoxious blem- 
ish to garments. Next to the trousers of boys who 
haunt the carriage-house and "steal rides" upon all 
manner of vehicles that have wheels, the silken gowns 



108 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

of Mrs. Lofty, who "never walks, or takes street- 
ears," are most liable to this disfigurement. 

As with most fabrics brought to be "treated," the 
initial measure is to get rid of the dirt. Sponge the 
spots with a mixture of equal parts bf alcohol and 
ether, confining your operations closely to the injured 
portion. "Wipe dry with old linen. Now, attack the 
grease — for that is what is left. Scrape French 
chalk to a powder and rub it well into the grease 
spots on the wrong side of the silk. Hang up the 
gown and leave it for two days before brushing off 
the powder. 

PAINT, TAR, PITCH, STICKY FLY-PAPER, ETC. 

Benzine will remove paint from delicate fabrics, 
even when the spots have dried into the stuff. Ap- 
ply freely, leave on for an hour, and renew. Sponge 
the blur, left after the paint has peeled off, with pure 
alcohol. 

For tar and pitch rub the stuff with butter or lard. 
Work it well with the tip of the finger, spreading as 
little as may be. Leave a thick coating of the grease 
over the spot all night. Next day, scrape it off and 
the tar or pitch will come with it. Now, sponge with 
alcohol and ammonia ; rub dry, and should any blem- 
ish remain, rub powdered French chalk on the wrong 
side. 

Soak paint until soft by pressing on the spots a 
sponge wet with alcohol. When soft it may be 
scraped off. Sponge the blur that remains with the 



THURSDAY 109 

invaluable mixture of equal parts of ether and alco- 
hol. 

Equal parts of ammonia and spirits of turpentine 
will take paint out of clothing. Saturate the spots 
two or three times, and then wash out in soap-suds. 

If the article injured be of linen, the butter, lard 
or cottolene will suffice to remove the tar or other 
resinous substance. Eub into the spots thoroughly, 
let it alone for three hours, and wash in the usual 
way. 

A generous supply of butter should be rubbed 
thoroughly on ginghams or calicoes or other cotton 
goods that have made too close an acquaintance with 
fresh paint. If thrown aside till washing or put on 
even a week or two after being daubed with paint, 
and then washed out just as usual, all traces of paint 
will vanish. 

Sticky fly-paper — John's especial abhorrence and 
the trap of unwary children — may be washed out 
of the father's summer trousers when he has sat him 
down confidingly, evening paper in hand, upon the 
broad, cool window-bench where the careful spouse 
has hidden a sheet of the "Tanglefoot," he hates — 
secure in the persuasion that he will never happen 
upon it there — he may be appeased, I say, and the 
pearl-colored integuments be purged of the detesta- 
ble compound by sponging with pure alcohol, dashed 
liberally with household ammonia. If the mixture 
be heated by setting the vessel containing it in boil- 
ing water (keeping the inner jar or bottle corked) it 



110 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Will act more quickly and be more certain to expunge 
the marks. 

Alcohol will remove fly-paper stickiness from any 
substance. Sponge well with this, then with house- 
hold ammonia. [We have had the like mishap in our 
home, once and again, and rectified it by this treat- 
ment. Once the least of the flock appeared, beam- 
ingly, before the horrified mother with a sheet of 
fly-paper fast to a mop of sunny curls. Every hair 
was caught. To disentangle the hank of gold thread 
was a work of time and patience, but alcohol and 
ammonia did the work. 

I have removed slighter visitations of the ubiqui- 
tous "Tanglefoot" from hands and pinafores with 
ammonia, alone. After getting it off the skin wash 
with bland soap and anoint with frostilla, or cold 
cream to prevent chapping. Or should the sticky 
surface come in contact with table-linen, Woodwork, 
clothing, fingers, or in fact anything not intended, 
even the family pussy-cat — use simply kerosene! 
That will cut it instantly. In the case of clothing, 
remove the kerosene with any means known to the 
housekeeper. 

IODINE 

Soak the stain in cold water for half an hour, and 
while it is still wet, cover thickly — rubbing in well — 
with baking soda, and lay in the sun. 

Or: If the stain be old and obstinate, wet the spot 
with water, rub in crystals of oxalic acid and hold 
over the spout of a boiling kettle, letting the steam 



Thursday; hi 

rush through it for five minutes. Rinse and repeat 
process. Ammonia, also, will remove iodine stains. 

MUD AND GRASS STAINS 

The inside of a cut raw potato will remove mud 
stains from black silk. Try it upon a small piece of 
colored silk. Should it prove ineffectual, use a mix- 
ture in equal parts of alcohol and ether, rubbing 
down toward the bottom of the skirt — not up. 

I have cleaned the bottom of black silk and woolen 
skirts thoroughly by rubbing the grayish blurs left 
after the mud was beaten out, with a succession of 
pieces of raw Irish potatoes. Use the freshly cut in- 
side, changing for another piece as one becomes 
soiled, and, should marks of the rubbing be left when 
the stuff is dry, sponge with alcohol. 

In dealing with grass stains, which are a serious 
problem in summer with mothers of small children, 
and laundresses, competent or otherwise, use the 
ordinary black cooking molasses, which is found in 
every pantry, rubbing well into the fabric, whether 
cotton, linen or woolen, letting it remain a few min- 
utes and then washing by the usual process. It will 
not injure the most delicate material or color, and the 
most obstinate case will yield to the treatment. 

If the garment be not washable, cover with thick 
black molasses, and leave this on for three days. 
Wash off with clear water. Should a spot remain 
when dry, sponge with ether and alcohol in equal 
parts. 



112 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

SCORCH 

Scorch from ironing or fire may be taken from 
goods by first washing and boiling ; then wring from 
suds, hang in the sun to dry, or wet in suds (hot or 
cold) and dry. Repeat this process until all spots 
have been removed. 

PERSPIRATION STAINS 

I have said times without number, and expect to 
repeat the saying innumerable times more, that per- 
spiration stains are the most intractable of blemishes. 
Combining, as they do, acid and alkali, they resist 
treatment which might remove one or the other. 
Ammonia would act effectually upon the acid, and is 
an exasperation to the salts in the stain. Lemon- 
juice, invaluable in mildew and rust spots, adds acid 
to acid. fl?he one forlorn hope is that a mixture of 
alcohol and ether in equal parts, with a dash of house- 
hold ammonia, may do away with the worst features 
of the stain. In applying this or any other detersive, 
never forget to lay several thicknesses of blotting- 
paper (white) under the soiled place to prevent the 
formation of the obnoxious ring that is likely to re- 
main on the stuff after it is dry. 

VASELINE AND OTHER OILS 

r A veteran housekeeper tells this story of experi- 
ence with a stubborn grease spot. 

"Some years ago my nurse spilled a quantity of hot vaseline 
on a brand-new and rather expensive white bedspread. The 



THURSDAY 113 

spots soon took on a dark, greasy, unsightly appearance and, 
while they did not show immediately after washing, they soon 
returned and I thought my spread ruined. She took it to the 
laundry, spread it on the floor, poured kerosene oil liberally on 
the spots and left it in that condition over night. The follow- 
ing day it went through the regular wash, was thoroughly rinsed 
and dried in the sun, and not a spot has returned in all these ten 
years. I have had numerous occasions to use it since." 

If the oil is kerosene, cover with" oatmeal or with 
cornmeal, and leave it alone for two days. Then 
brush and beat well. If any other oil be spilled, 
cover with a stiff paste of fuller's earth and water. 
Leave thus for three days. Eepeat if necessary. s 

The first step in removing fat of any kind from 
cloth is to coat the spot with a bland alkali, such as 
French chalk. Get at the wrong side of the stuff if 
you have to rip a seam in order to do it. Rub the 
finely pulverized chalk into the grease and lay the 
garment by for four hours. Then cover the chalk 
with thick blotting-paper and set a moderately warm 
iron upon it. 'A hot iron will fasten the oil in the 
stuff. Slip the paper along as the grease begins to 
show through. 

Should any trace of the damage be left on the right 
side, sponge with pure alcohol. Lay clean blotting- 
paper under the cloth as you sponge it to prevent the 
formation of a ring when it is dry. 



CHAPTER XI 

Thursday {Continued') 

ON CLEANING NON-WASHABLE ARTICLES OF DRESS 

Gasoline: its excellence and its peril: Beyond 
question, gasoline is the most efficient cleanse!* we 
have in general use, and the least harmful in its ef- 
fects upon the substance under treatment. Yet, of 
all that I shall recommend to my readers, it is the 
very last I should put into careless hands. : A collec- 
tor of curious statistics estimates that on an average, 
one woman or child per day, is killed or seriously in- 
jured by gasoline every year, in the United States. 
This may, or may not be true. Data of the sensa- 
tional type are not minimized by the professional 
statistician. Certain it is that casualties arising 
from the misuse of this cleansing agent are frequent 
enough to discount the intelligence of housewives as 
a class. 

I dropped a caution on this subject in a former 
chapter. I reiterate it with force at the outset of our 
consideration of the merits and the uses of gasoline 
in renovating articles which can not be safely con- 
signed to the wash-tub. 

For example — worsted stuffs of all grades may be 

114 



THURSDAYS 115 

washed in gasoline without fear of fading or shrink- 
ing. 

If you can do this out of doors, it is best to take all 
your apparatus into the open air, with no fire or ar- 
tificial light near. If, as is more probable, you must 
work in the house, shut yourself into the bath-room! 
and set the window open wide. Lay the breadths- 
several at a time — in a basin or bowl or boiler, cover 
with gasoline, put a close lid upon the vessel and leave 
for half an hour. Lift then, wetting your hands as 
little as may be, and shake and souse alternately for 
two or three minutes. Do not rub. Hang in the air 
to drip and dry, and the work is done. In the bot- 
tom of the bowl a heavy deposit of sooty matter 
shows how soiled the cloth was and how thorough is 
the purification. When all the dirt has settled; 
pour off the clear gasoline cautiously and use for the 
next supply of clothes. If the cloth be sadly soiled, 
throw away the first lot of gasoline and rinse the 
articles to be cleansed in a fresh supply. Gasoline 
will not remove grease. Therefore, before using the 
bath I have described, cover grease spots with a paste 
of fuller's earth or of French chalk, and leave on all 
night. Next day cover with blotting paper and 
"draw" out the oil with a hot iron. 

I wish it were possible for me to instil into readers' 
minds the simple fact that gasoline will not extract 
stains or grease spots. There is no chemical reason 
why it should do either of these things. It does take 
out "plain dirt" of any description. 



116 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Benzine is subject to the same objection as gasoline 
in the minds of timid housewives. We are horrified 
daily by newspaper stories of accidents to life and 
limb, caused by the explosion, or ignition of benzine 
and naphtha. Unless one has the common sense to 
conduct one 's renovations in a room remote from ar- 
tificial light of every kind, one should never meddle 
with any of the three cleansers, but confine one's 
operations in the cleansing line to soap and water. 

As we shall see by and by, benzine cleans gloves 
perfectly. It also takes off paint from flexible ma- 
terials. 

DRY CLEANING 

Dry cleaning is an invention of our latter day for 
which we can hardly be too grateful. It is neat, it 
is safe, and it is harmless to the texture of the arti- 
cles treated. The rules for the treatment of woolen 
stuffs, light silks and embroidered wash materials 
one does not like to wet are substantially the same. 

A white Bedford cord gown — partly wool, partly 
cotton — was successfully cleansed by following this 
formula : 

Put into a tub, cover with corn-meal slightly salted 
and scrub with this as you would use suds, rubbing 
between your hands, and hardest upon soiled spots. 
Cover it up in clean meal and leave it there for two 
days, throwing a cloth over the tub to keep out dust. 
Shake then, and brush with a perfectly clean whisk. 

Buckwheat flour may be used instead of the meal. 
Indeed, it is preferred by some experienced amateur 



THURSDAY: 117 

scourers. They say that the finer grain of the buck- 
wheat flour is more easily and thoroughly worked be- 
tween the threads of fine stuffs, and does not fray 
them as the coarse meal does, sometimes. 

Small rugs of lamb's wool or white fur, such as are 
used for baby-carriages, may be cleansed, again and 
again at home. 

Half fill a clean tub with dry corn-meal, and dry- 
wash the robe in it as in suds. Eub clear down to 
the hide, treating each hair impartially. When this 
has been done, throw out the soiled meal ; line the tub 
with the robe, fur side up, and sift clean meal all 
over it, rubbing it well in, until you have buried it 
out of sight. Throw a cloth over all, to exclude dust, 
and leave thus for two days. Beat and shake out the 
meal at the end of that time. 

Larger floor rugs, even costly oriental fabrics, are 
rid of dust and grime, and the colors are brightened 
by a similar process. 

Heat coarse Indian meal in the oven in large pans, 
when you have mixed with it one-fourth the quantity 
of fine salt. When the mixture is quite hot (it must 
not scorch) have your rugs close at hand. They 
should have been shaken and whipped on the wrong 
side, out-of-doors. There will be dirt enough in them 
after the beating to warrant more thorough meas- 
ures. Scatter the salted meal thickly over the rugs, 
rub in well, using a clean broom or a brush ; cover to 
keep out the dust and leave thus for twenty-four 
hours. Sweep, then, with a clean, stiff broom twice— 



118 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

once against the nap, and the second time with it: 
finally, shake and beat to dislodge any lingering rem- 
nants of the meal and salt. You will be amazed at 
the complexion of the aforesaid "remnants." The 
meal and salt may be used without heating, but you 
are more certain to have them perfectly dry, if they 
have been in the oven, and the heat helps on the 
cleansing process, besides killing any larvae that may, 
have skulked out of reach of the broom. 

Flour and borax are used with good effect upon 
finer materials. The waist of a cream- white cash- 
mere gown, adjudged to be hopelessly soiled, was 
made entirely presentable by obedience to a formula 
given to the incredulous owner by one who had tried 
it. I transcribe it from her letter : 

Rub into it with a clean complexion brush a mix- 
ture of flour, four parts; borax, one part. Do not 
miss one thread in the rubbing. Shake lightly to 
dislodge the loose powder and rub in a fresh supply. 
Leave this on for three days, covering to exclude the 
dust. Then shake and beat. 

Boracic talcum is a refined variation of the same 
cleanser. It is so much more expensive than the 
flour and borax that few would care to use it upon 
articles calling for basinfuls, much less tubfuls. It 
is worth while to resort to it when small and valuable 
pieces of lace or linen need attention. To clean a 
lace collar — Battenberg, point or Cluny — pin it 
firmly to a cloth-covered bosom-board and go all over 
it with boracic talcum, or with a mixture of pow- 



THURSDAY; 119 

dered starch and borax, rubbing it well into the lace 
with a tooth- or nail-brush. When you have treated 
one side thus, turn the collar and repeat the process 
with the other. Cover with powder when you have 
done brushing it in, throw a cloth over it to keep out 
the dust, and leave it for two days. Then unpin the 
collar, shake, lay it on the board, right side down, 
and cover with a very damp cloth. Press with a hot 
iron through the cloth. 

Embroidered handkerchiefs, cravats, scarfs, cen- 
terpieces and fine doilies, that inevitably come to 
grief if sent to a professional cleaner, may be re- 
stored to respectability by skilful manipulation with 
boracic talcum. If you can not get it conveniently, 
make a substitute that may serve yon as well by pow- 
dering starch and sifting it four times, with one 
ounce of borax to a pound of starch. 

Block magnesia: If Of ,the finest quality, may 
fltly join the band of household cleansers. Inferior 
qualities abrade silks and fray linen threads. They 
also rob lustrous fabrics, like silk and satin, of gloss, 
making them look dull and "cottony." A white or^ 
pale-colored crepon, or point d 'esprit gown — waist 
and skirt — may be cleaned in this way : 

Lay the breadths, smooth and straight, upon a 
table covered with a white cloth, pinning each 
breadth in place to prevent it from drawing away, 
while you rub into every thread the best quality of 
block magnesia. Rub straight, evenly and gently, 
ttatil you have gone over every bit of the material. 



120 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Turn the breadths now and treat the wrong side in 
the same way. You will find the waist more trouble- 
some, but it can be cleaned without taking apart. 
Lay the whole gown upon a bed, cover with a thin 
cloth, and leave it thus for a week before shaking and 
brushing out the powder. 

Fine lawns may be treated with magnesia, also 
white felt hats. In every instance the magnesia 
must be left on the article for some days. There are 
chemical agents in the magnesia that need time for 
their work. 

A silk or pongee parasol, that has not begun to 
show the light through the creases, yet is soiled by 
wear or accident, may be cleaned at home, if these di- 
rections are regarded throughout : Add a teaspoon- 
ful of fine, dry salt to two cupfuls of powdered 
starch, and with a soft, clean "complexion brush" 
rub the mixture into the silk on both sides, not miss- 
ing a thread, and working with the grain of the silk 
all the time. Blow off the loose powder and rub in a 
fresh supply. Leave this on for two days before 
shaking it out and wiping the whole surface with soft 
flannel. The parasol should be opened wide to keep 
the silk taut. I have cleaned silk satisfactorily in 
this manner, and also with boracic talcum. 

To clean velvet: Corduroy, which is a sort of 
country cousin of velvet, may be restored without in- 
jury to the pile by the dry cleanser last mentioned. 
Sift boracic talcum thickly over it. Then "mas- 
sage" the corduroy with the tips of resolute fingers 



THURSDAY 121 

for at least ten minutes, renewing the powder as it is 
worked in. Cover with clean powder and put into a 
box with a close cover. Leave it thus for three days 
before beating out the powder and brushing well. 

Velvets may be cleaned by putting them in gasoline 
and brushing with a tooth- or complexion-brush'. 
Great care should be taken to guard against an ex- 
plosion. Gasoline will not take out grease, but vel- 
vet coat collars can be cleaned by sponging with tur- 
pentine. It will not injure the nap. 

I have cleaned badly soiled velvet with a mixture 
of equal parts of alcohol and ether, one-third as much 
naphtha, and a teaspoonful of ammonia to a pint of 
the blended ingredients. Bottle, cork, and shake the 
preparation well. Sponge the velvet — always with 
the nap. It will look like a sorry affair when dry, 
but the next step in the process will bring all right. 

Hang the garment in the bath-room and turn on 
the hot water until the room is full of steam. Shut 
door and windows and leave the garment in the steam 
for some hours. When cold and still damp, hang in 
the outer air. 

To renew velvet; Hold a hot iron upside down; 
wring a cloth out of water, lay over the iron, then put 
your velvet wrong side next to the wet cloth. While 
the steam is passing through it brush on the upper 
side with a soft brush. Move the wet cloth as fast as 
it dries to continue the rise of steam. 

Do not lay finger upon the newly-risen nap until 
the velvet is entirely dry. Creased and crushed vel- 



122 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WWR 

vet may be freshened and smoothed by steaming, and 
the method here described is a manifest improvement 
upon the old way of holding the defaced -garment- 
over a steaming kettle. The wrinkles left upon 
cloths that have been packed away for a long time, or 
Unskilfully, may be removed in like manner. Turn 
on the hot water, and when the room is clouded by 
the vapor, turn off the water and shut Up the room. 
The steam will do the rest. Velvet ribbons which 
have become creased can be freshened by holding 
them over a pan of boiling water, and brushing up 
the nap with a stiff brush. This process removes 
wrinkles and makes the velvet look nearly as well as 
when new. 

Fuller's earth: Takes the place of magnesia and 
talcum in handling neutral-colored articles. A tan 
or gray coat, or jacket, soiled and darkened by long 
usage, should, first of all, be brushed free of dust as 
the initial step to rehabilitation. Then, lay it upon 
a large table, and go over every inch of it with pow^- 
dered fuller's earth, working it in with a new clean 
complexion brush, until not a thread is left unvisited. 
Turn the garment upside down and repeat the work 
by rubbing in the powder against the nap or grain. 
Shake the coat to dislodge the loose earth, rub in a 
second supply, and leave this on for a week. It will 
eat up the dirt and form a harmless combination with 
grease. At the end of the week shake and brush 
vigorously. 

Tan or gray felt hats may be made almost as good 



THURSDAY; 123 

as new by rubbing them -with fuller's earth.. Pro- 
ceed as with the colored cloth, even to the week's 
waiting in a dark box. 

To clean felt hats : A black felt hat may be cleaned 
with ammonia and warm water, but light hats must 
be cleaned with oatmeal^ heated and applied with a 
brush. A white felt hat is cleaned with equal parts 
of powdered pipe-clay and oatmeal. Rub the pow- 
der on every part of the hat and then brush 
thoroughly*. There is nothing better for cleaning 
light-colored felt hats which are only slightly soiled 
than dry corn-meal rubbed on with a piece of clean 
flannel. 

TO CLEAN FURS AT HOME 
Sealskin and Other Dark Furs 

With a clean whisk broom wet in alcohol brush the 
fur thoroughly until saturated to the hide. Sift 
thickly into and over it pulverized fuller's earth; 
cover to keep out dust, and do not touch for two days. 
Then brush and beat out the powder. Grime and 
soot will come out with it. I have cleaned white furs 
in the same way, substituting talcum powder for ful- 
ler 's earth. 

This plan of cleansing furs, I believe to be my own 
device. I made my first experiment upon a set of 
white "moufflon" belonging to a small lady who 
represented the infant element in our household. I 
carried muff and tippet into the bath-room and shut 
myself in with them, the alcohol bottle and a box of 



124 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

talcum (borax) . First, I brushed all the dust out of 
the furs. Then with a new whisk, never used until 
then, and dripping wet with alcohol, I swabbed them 
down to the skin. Finally I sifted the boracic tal- 
cum under every hair, until the furs could hold no 
more. I consigned them, with many a misgiving, to 
a big box lined with tissue paper, and put on the lid, 
the alcohol being still wet upon the powder. At the 
end of three days, I took the moufflon out. As I 
shook it into the fresh air the white powder flew in 
clouds. Gentle practice with a brush brought out the 
rest and revealed white fluffiness beyond my fondest 
expectations. The experiment has been repeated 
many times, since then, and always to my satisfac- 
tion. 

Ermine, the prettiest and the most expensive of our 
white furs, has the disadvantage of yellowing if laid 
away. To avoid this mishap, line the box in which 
it is to be secluded during summer with blue tissue 
paper, or wrap the ermine in clean muslin made very 
blue with laundry bluing (but not starched). Put 
a cake of white wax in the box as well. 

If the ermine has already yellowed, you may pos- 
sibly whiten it by this method : 

Beat out the dust and sponge the collar with per- 
oxide of hydrogen ; lay it in the sun for some hours, 
sponging every hour with the peroxide. Then fill 
the fur with boracic talcum and shut it up in a box 
for a week. If anything will bleach the ermine, this 
will. 



THURSDAY 125 

By the end of the winter the collar and the silk 
binding of fur and cloth garments have become so 
soiled as to mark the neck or the neck-band of the 
wearer's gown, or the man's collar. The mark is a 
blending of coal dust and perspiration, which re- 
peats itself each time the outer garment is worn. 

To abate the nuisance, try the detersive mixture 
of ether, alcohol and household ammonia. With a 
bit of perfectly clean sponge scrub the soiled portions 
of the silk, cleansing the sponge after each applica- 
tion. This will remove grease and grime. Wipe 
dry with old soft linen. 

TO CLEAN GLOVES 

Benzine: Put on both gloves, pour enough ben- 
zine in a bowl to cover the hands and hold them under 
the fluid a moment or two, then wash thoroughly as 
if using soap and water, rubbing all soiled spots well. 
Rub dry with a soft old linen towel, leaving on the 
hands until they are perfectly dry. They will look 
like new after several cleansings, if the gloves are of 
good quality. 

Benzine is highly volatile, evaporating quickly 1 . 
So, the injunction to keep the gloves upon the hands 
until they are dry is not so unreasonable as one might 
suppose. Have a book or paper at hand, and read, 
using the hands as little as possible, to beguile the 
tedium of waiting. When you draw off the gloves, 
wrap a clean handkerchief about the fingers that do 
the pulling, as a newly cleaned glove is very sensitive 



126 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

to soil or dust. Hang the gloves up in an open win- 
dow to let the odor escape, before laying them away. 

The invaluable gasoline cleans gloves as well, to 
my way of thinking, as benzine, although the odor 
clings to them more persistently, perhaps. 

If you do not like to risk this, or naphtha, lay the 
gloves at full length on a folded towel and scrub with 
a bit of old flannel dipped in skim milk, then rubbed 
on the best quality of toilet soap. Wash in this way 
every part of the glove. Lay between two clean 
towels and put into a drawer for two days. They 
will be discolored and stiff, but when drawn on the 
hand and arm will recover color and softness at once. 

In the cleaning change the flannel as soon as it is 
soiled, and wipe the gloves dry before laying them 
away between the towels. 

We, who are teachers of the rising generation of 
housemothers, rejuvenated our light and white 
gloves after this fashion in the years when gasoline 
was not a domestic commodity, except as a distant 
relative of the giddy gas known as camphine and was 
burned in the place of whale oil in our lamps. We 
had a regular day for washing our gloves with skim 
milk and sweet soap, and another for stretching them 
back to their normal form and complexion. That 
day was usually Thursday. The six, eight or ten 
pairs of discolored gloves lay in their cerements Un- 
til Saturday. We took pride in the skill gained by 
our many washings, and had a trick of displaying our 
encased hands to one another in church on Sunday, 



THURSDAY! 127 

without attracting the notice of grave mammas and 
uninitiated beaux. 

We, likewise, cleaned light gloves with white india 
rubber, and with stale bread-crumbs, fancying that 
they kept clean longer when thus treated than after 
they were washed in any other way. 

White kid gloves may be cleaned on the hands 
with oatmeal and benzine, mixed to a paste. Con- 
tinue rubbing until the paste drops off in dry flakes. 

Slippers and gloves of white or light kid may be 
cleaned by rubbing them with a piece of clean flannel 
dipped in a mixture of equal parts of powdered alum 
and fuller's earth. A rub afterwards with fine oat- 
meal sometimes improves the looks of the kid. 

When black gloves become white at the finger tips, 
rub these with a few drops of good black ink mixed 
with the. same quantity of sweet oil. Light suedes 
may be cleansed with white castile soap boiled in milk 
to make suds, rubbing them with flannel, then with 
warm water, finally with dry flannel. 



CHAPTER XII 

Thursday {Concluded) 

ODDS AND ENDS OF RENOVATING 
TO CLEAN LEATHER 

Tan leather shoes: Wash a raw potato, cut into 
two or three pieces; rub the potato well into the 
shoes; be sure not to miss any part or the tan will 
show where the potato has missed. Let it dry, then 
apply polish twice with a light quick motion, which 
will give a finely polished boot or shoe. 

If the shoes be hopelessly defaced, yet strong as to 
material and seams, they are worth recoloring. This 
may be done at home, and satisfactorily if the fol- 
lowing directions be obeyed. Provide yourself with 
a bottle of gasoline ; brush the mud and dust from the 
shoes and sponge them with gasoline, rubbing it in 
well. It takes the oil out of the surface of the 
leather. 

To dye, purchase a package of patent dyes — slate. 
Make up as per black ink recipe, using half the quan- 
tity of water. When made, add one tablespoonful 
of alcohol and one teaspoonful of spirits of camphor. 
Apply to the shoe after cleaning. Let the first coat 
dry. Put on the second and let it dry. Rub off with 
a dry cloth; touch up spots not well covered. 

128 



THURSDAY 129 

When dry, polish with a good black paste, and rus- 
set leather will not show through in a week, as the 
shoemaker's always does. 

A few drops of turpentine on a woolen cloth will 
clean tan shoes very well, and a drop or two of orange 
or lemon juice will give a brilliant polish to any 
leather. 

Sweet oil forms a good dressing for patent leather. 
Apply it with a small piece of flannel and then polish 
the leather with a soft cloth. 

If the russet shoes be but slightly soiled, they may 
be treated with cut banana. In every case see that 
no dirt that can be brushed off is left on the leather 
to interfere with the polish. If this precaution be 
neglected, dust becomes mire, and clouds whatever 
preparation may be used in cleaning. 

White and light-colored leather of any kind — may 
be renovated, so as to serve another term of useful- 
ness, by mixing a good patent dye to the exact shade 
you wish to get in a glass or earthenware bowl. Metal 
might change the tint, if there be acid in the dye, 
as is probable. Apply the dye, as dry as it may be 
used to advantage, to the leather, then leave it until 
it is perfectly dry and well soaked into the leather, 
when the surface may be polished in the usual way. 
American leather may be first well washed with a 
soaped flannel, rinsed with a soft cloth dipped in 
clean water, dried and finished off as above. Bags, 
portmanteaux, etc., according to their leather, may 
be cleaned in these ways. 



130 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

White dancing slippers are easily; cleaned with' 
gasoline. 

Wet a piece of perfectly clean flannel with gaso- 
line and scour the slippers with it. When dry, wash 
with peroxide of hydrogen and dry in the sunshine. 

Other shoes: White satin shoes may be easily 
cleaned at home. Stuff out the shoe in shape and 
rub it gently with a soft cloth dipped in methylated 
spirit, repeating until clean. Dry with a clean soft 
cloth. 

Low shoes when new often blister the heels by 
slipping just a little as the wearer walks. To pre- 
vent this it is well to rub the inside of the shoe at the 
heels with soap before putting them on. 

A leather valise, battered by many assaults from 
baggage-smashers, and disfigured by traces of hotel 
and railway cards, may be rendered presentable and 
serviceable, so long as hinges and lock are sound. 
Go all over it with a damp cloth to get rid of paste- 
marks and portable soil. Next, rub with a cloth wet 
with kerosene. Leave the valise or suit-case to dry 
in the air, but avoid the sun. The third stage is to 
wring out a flannel cloth in neat's-foot oil. You can 
buy it from any harness-maker. Rub the leather 
well with this ; throw a sheet over it to exclude dust 
and leave it thus for several hours to let the oil sink 
into the leather. Wipe, and polish with chamois 
skin. 

To remove an ink spot from leather: Moisten the 
spot slightly with water, rub into it powdered crya- 



THURSDAY 131 

tals of oxalic acid ; wash off in fifteen minutes and re- 
peat washing after each application. Lastly, work 
in a few drops of neat's-foot oil, 

A chamois-leather vest may be dry-cleaned if not 
stained badly with perspiration. Chamois shrinks 
so woefully in the hands of the laundress of com- 
merce, that the day of consignment to the wash-tub 
should be delayed as long as decency will permit. 
Pending the evil hour, take it to the bath-room, 
spread it upon a table and rub both sides and every 
part of the vest with powdered fuller's earth. Work 
in well with a clean complexion brush. Cover with 
powder and lay in a closed drawer for a week before 
beating and brushing out the " earth." 

hats 

A white duch hat.' Clean it with a good quality 
of magnesia— fine in grain and pure white. Rub it 
well into the hat, shut it up in a box and leave it for 
a week. Eemove the powder with a bit of soft flan- 
nel, smoothing it round and round, always in the 
same direction and evenly. 

If not perfectly clean, the hat must be put through 
the process a second time. 

Straw: To clean gentlemen's white straw hats, 
use one teaspoonf ul of oxalic acid to a cup of water ; 
scour with an old toothbrush until all soil has disap- 
peared. If you should discolor the black band with 
the mixture, dampen it with diluted ammonia water 
to restore the color. 



132 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Leghorn: Brush out the dust with a stiff whisk- 
broom, running it around the inside as faithfully as 
you brush the outside, having, first, taken out the lin- 
ing and removed the band. Clip each stitch, instead 
of pulling the thread, and leave no bits sticking to 
the straw. These are minor steps in the operation, 
but they tell visibly in the result. When the hat is 
"broom clean," rub it all over and thoroughly with 
damp cornmeal. Let this stand for ten minutes; 
then apply dry meal. Rub into every thread, and 
leave it on for six hours before brushing out the meal. 
If you wish to bleach it, sponge freely with peroxide 
of hydrogen and expose to the hot sun. 

Panama: Wash the hat all over with lemon juice, 
leave it in the sun for six hours; then sponge care- 
fully, leaving no part untouched, with peroxide of 
hydrogen. Sun again for several hours. 

Or: A cup of white cornmeal, soaked in benzine 
or gasoline, well rubbed on with a clean, soft cloth, 
will clean and leave no stains. 

Both Leghorns and Panamas have an ugly fashion 
of yellowing before they have lived out half their 
days. And, while the peroxide of hydrogen bleaches 
quickly, and what may be called plausibly — other 
housewives who have tried the two ways of whiten- 
ing straw, agree with me in thinking the old method 
practised by our granddames — whose Leghorns and 
Naverinos served for their grandchildren — the surer 
and more enduring. Some used this formula : 

Pulverize stick sulphur and mix it to a paste with 



THURSDAY 133 

water. Plaster this thickly on the straw and place 
in the sun to dry. When dry, brush the sulphur off, 
and the hat will look like new. 

Others employed the same agent in a different way. 
A tin or iron plate of sulphur was set on the ground 
and lighted to a slow flame. When it was fairly 
kindled, a barrel open at both ends was carefully 
placed over the smoking sulphur. Across the top of 
the barrel was laid a stick from which the discolored 
hat was suspended by a short cord. A board was 
fitted to the head of the barrel so closely that the 
fumes of the burning sulphur could not escape. At 
the end of half an hour the hat was shifted to a dif- 
ferent position that the hot gases might reach every 
part of it. More sulphur was lighted if the first sup- 
ply was exhausted. The hat was not taken out until 
it was cold. A couple of hours in the open air suf- 
ficed to dispel the sulphurous odor. 

If the hat be but slightly soiled, go over it with a 
paste of lemon- juice and table salt, spreading it 
thickly and evenly and leave the hat in the sun for 
the rest of the day. Next morning brush off the salt, 
and wash with strained lemon- juice. Another day's 
sunning should make it as white as ever. 

SOOT MARKS 

Even in our age of closed chimneys, and steam 
heat, there are households sufficiently luxurious and 
affluent to indulge in the renaissance of open fire- 
places. Now and then, when fires are kept up regu- 



134 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

larly in the baronial chimneys, a gust of wind or a 
fierce dash of ill-directed rain brings down the ac- 
cumulations of a winter's smoke. 

When soot falls upon the carpet or rug, never at- 
tempt to sweep it up at once, for the result is sure 
to be a disfiguring mark. Cover it thickly with 
dried salt, which will enable you to sweep it up clean, 
so that not the slightest stain will be left. 

EGG STAINS 

They should not excite disgust, but they do ! The 
yellow drip from the breakfast egg, eaten en regie, 
from the shell of the " strictly fresh," a-down John's 
blameless shirt-front, or Mary's embroidered muslin; 
the smear left by Jenny's spoon on the cloth where 
she dropped it — full, of course — "on an accident," 
— are alike odious in the housemother's eyes. She 
can not explain why they should convey an impres- 
sion of coarse negligence verging upon vulgarity. 
Yet she is distressfully aware of the fact, and so are 
we. Moreover, they are not easily sponged out. 
The hateful, vulgar yellow clings like the smirch of 
scandal to reputation. 

Egg stains on linen or on any other cloth should 
be soaked in cold water, for hot water sets the stains 
and makes them most difficult to remove. The 
same rule applies to egg stains on dishes, etc. If the 
dishes are placed at once in hot water the egg stains 
will harden, but they readily come off in cold water. 

The albumen in eggs is made into paste by boiling 



THURSDAY 135 

water. It dissolves readily in cold. Therefore, if 
you try to sponge away the ochreous streak from 
non-washable stuff, do it with cold water. 

FEATHERS 

To clean a feather boa: Shake gently in a draft 
for a minute or two, pulling it open through the 
length to clear out the dust. Blow hard into it— up- 
ward— to dislodge lurking particles. Then wash it 
in clear gasoline. Do it out of doors and in the day- 
time. Souse it up and down a dozen times; shake 
and hang in the air to dry, shaking several times 
while it is airing. 

Or: Sift finely pulverized fuller's earth into the 
feathers, filling them full with it. Shut up in a box 
for two days, shake gently and hang in the wind to 
get rid of the powder. Or, you may dip it repeatedly 
in gasoline. 

Ostrich plumes: May be cleaned in the same way. 
To restore them after being exposed to dampness: 
hold the plumes or feather boa over a register, or 
much better, over the kitchen range. Hold there 
and shake as near the heat as possible without 
scorching. In a few moments they will fluff up and 
be as lively as a ball of down. 

After the washing in gasoline and the drying in 
the open air, the plume or boa will have a dissipated, 
blase look unbecoming the crisp jauntiness of its 
former estate. Hold it at the steaming spout of a 
boiling tea-kettle, then over the red-hot plate of the 



136 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

range or hang it from the upper grating of a hot 
oven until it curls, watching lest it burn. I know a 
woman who bakes her plumes periodically. 

There are other, and it may be, better ways. One 
authority upon the subject sets down positively that 
"the whole secret of success in renovating feathers 
is starch — raw, not boiled — as the cooked starch 
would act like glue. Take three tablespoonfuls of 
raw starch to one pint of cold water, into which put 
the feathers, after they have been washed and rinsed. 
Press in a dry cloth with the hands, squeezing as dry 
as possible; then hang in the wind to dry — in a 
strong draft, if convenient. When quite dry, shake 
well, but not hard. As the starch flies off in a 
cloud, every filament will rise, and the plume be as 
fluffy as at first. Hang in the steam of a boiling ket- 
tle until the plume is saturated. Do not curl near 
the stem, as the feather will, then, be too close and 
thick. When curling, keep the forefinger of the left 
hand parallel with the stem." 

Or: Make a suds of good white soap; put your 
plume in and soak until the dirt is loosened. Repeat 
until the last suds are clean. If the plume is white, 
rinse in water with a little bluing in it. In washing 
begin at the stem and squeeze down to the tip. Dry 
as you would anything else — preferably in the sun. 
Then lay your feather on a large sheet of paper and 
sprinkle thickly with prepared chalk and flour. Put 
your hand on the side of the feather and rub down 
to the tip, keeping it up until the fibers are loosened. 



THURSDAY 137 

Shake out well in the air to get rid of the powder, 
and curl on a blunt knife. Handle carefully, so as 
not to break the plume. 

WHITE STUFFS 

White all-wool waists: A cream-colored waist 
may be cleaned according to rules for which I have 
to thank a friend. She says : 

"I have cleaned three this winter. Two were wool 
waistings of different kinds, the other a cream wool 
challe. The latter was trimmed with white silk ap- 
plique, which I did not rip off. My method is sim- 
ply to soak the waist to be cleaned in cold water for 
a couple of hours, then wash in cold water with any 
good white soap, rubbing the soap freely on the waist. 
Rinse also in cold water, several times if necessary. 
All the waists iron to look exactly like new, and 
without shrinking." 

A second contributor volunteers a dry bleach for 
which she vouches, as I guarantee her skill and truth- 
fulness : 

"Wash the waist in warm suds, rinse in hot water 
and keep it hot while drying, stretching all the time 
into shape, and when dry, bleach with sulphur. Get 
a large barrel; put a brick in the center of the bot- 
tom; then a red-hot stove lid upside down on the 
brick. Put sulphur on that. Put a large wire sieve 
on top of barrel and put goods or waist, flannel or 
white silk, on it. Cover tightly. Leave the gar- 
ment loose so the sulphur will reach every part of 



138 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

the goods. When the sulphur is cold, the goods will 
be as white as when new." 

I have to thank a third benefactor for her method 
of cleaning chiffon. 

To clean white chiffon: " Chiffon should be 
washed in soap lather by carefully rolling and press- 
ing between the hands, then rinsed in clean water 
and stiffened in gum water, the same proportion as 
for lace — namely, one tablespoonful to a quarter of 
a pint of water. 

"Roll in a cloth to absorb some of the moisture, but 
proceed quickly since it must not be too dry when it 
is ironed. 

"To iron chiffon, it must be placed on the table 
wrong side up and ironed along the selvedge, as iron- 
ing across would displace the fibers and destroy the 
appearance of the delicate fabric. 

"Chiffon ties with a natural crepon crinkle should 
not be ironed, but, instead, the ends should be care- 
fully pinned out on a table, the tie just stretched 
enough to permit of the crinkles falling into their 
natural shape. 

"When dry fold it without pressing the folds in; 
air and put away carefully." 

A delicate and not easy process. Had I less con- 
fidence in the woman who assures me she "has tried 
it, and found it true," I should not dare to quote it. 
For chiffon has kinks — in more than one sense of the 
word^and I have never essayed to cleanse it. 



THURSDAY 139 

TO TAKE THE OIL OUT OF WOOLEN STUFFS 

A lively housemother thus relates, at my request, 
the history of a calamity changed by presence of 
mind into a pleasing reminiscence : 

"Many years ago I had read that rye flour will ab- 
sorb any oil on a carpet. An accident spread a pint 
of castor-oil on the parlor carpet. This made a 
large spot, and I ran to the flour bin only to find rye 
flour out. In desperation I took white flour instead. 
Then I covered the flour with newspaper, and both 
with a rug. I changed the flour as often as the oil 
penetrated it and formed cakes, as long as there was 
any oil left — rapidly and hard at first, slowly and 
light at last. Not a vestige of oil remained, and I 
have had several experiences since in removing oil 
from carpets and wool clothing-— putting flour above 
and below the spot in cloth and placing a slightly 
warmed iron over the spot. This is a simple remedy 
and one always at hand in the home." 

TO REMOVE THE "SHINE" FROM CLOTH AND SILK 

(1) The shine that shows a serge skirt or jacket 
to be no longer new, may easily be removed by spong- 
ing the garment with bluing water, such as is used 
to launder clothes. While still damp press the goods 
under a thin cloth. 

(2) To take the "shine" off of clothing: Wring 
a woolen cloth out of water; lay over the goods and 



140 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

press with a hot iron. Do not press dry. Take 
cloth up while steaming. 

(3) "Damprag" it by rolling it upon a wet cloth, 
the gloss next to the cloth. Leave thus for an hour or 
more. Then open upon a table, and hold a very hot 
iron just near enough to the moistened "shine" to 
bring up the steam, which should do the work unless 
the garment be positively threadbare. 

(4) To remove the "shine" from John's coat and 
trousers, sponge with hot vinegar. This will 
cleanse and freshen them at the same time. Sponge 
afterward with ammonia. 

(5) Whatever you use, the removal of the "shine " 
will be temporary. One of the best things I know of 
is a bit of very fine emery cloth — you may buy it in 
small squares at a druggist's — rubbed upon the 
shiny parts of the cloth. Rub gently. The friction 
will remove the gloss for a time. When it reap- 
pears, rub again. 

(6) Soap-bark is one of the best mediums for the 
removal of "shine" from cloth. Many a suit that 
has not begun to be threadbare, is thrown aside as too 
shabby for even every-day wear because it has grown 
glossy upon the shoulders and the underpart of the 
arms. Make a flannel bag, put a handful of soap- 
bark into it, and dip into hot water. Use it as a 
sponge. Do not wipe the cloth dry. 

A black silk that has worn so "shiny," that it 
looks greasy may be cleaned to a "dull finish" by 
sponging with a mixture of equal parts of alcohol 



Thursday 141 

and ether. Add a generous tablespoonful of house- 
hold ammonia to the mixture before using. It is 
yet more effective if set in boiling water half an hour 
before it is used. Change the water for more, boil- 
ing hot, at the end of fifteen minutes, and do not take 
the bottle containing the wash near the fire. The 
contents are highly volatile, but should the cork 
blow out, there is no danger unless the alcohol is ig- 
nited by artificial light. 

TO CLEAN A TISSUE OR CR&PON VEIL 

To clean a tissue, or crepon veil: Souse in gaso- 
line (out of doors), shake gently and attach with 
many pins to the line in the sun, but not where the 
wind will stretch it out of shape. Or, after shaking 
out the gasoline, spread smoothly upon a cloth, pin- 
ning down at the edges, and leave in the air and 
shade to dry. 

ECRU LACES 

Ecru laces can be kept to their original color by 
using yellow ochre, obtainable at any paint store. 
It is perfectly harmless to lace or muslin. Mix a 
small quantity of this powder with boiling water, 
and add to the starch or last rinsing water; test the 
color with a corner of the curtains where the pattern 
is heaviest; put all curtains, intended for one room 
or window, in at one time, so the color will not vary. 
Souse and wring out in the ordinary way. If not 
satisfactory the first time put through again. 



142 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Or: Put a little saffron in the rinsing water, mak- 
ing sure to wring and shake out the water before 
hanging the curtains up to dry. If hung up drip- 
ping wet, they will be streaky. 

Our grandmothers gave the sallowness of age to 
their thread laces by dipping them into weak, clear, 
black coffee — strained through a flannel bag. You 
can try the same process, if you prefer it to the saf- 
fron. In either case test the color first upon a bit 
of lace or muslin. 

SILK 

To clean a muddy black undershirt: Take a brush 
and use it vigorously over bad mud spots. Then 
scrub over with a piece of old velvet. You will be 
surprised at the result. The velvet, without the 
brush, is fine to remove the dust that collects on the 
silk. 

The "ring" left ~by sponging silk: If the cleaner 
has observed the precaution already insisted upon of 
laying a folded piece of blotting-paper under the 
silk before touching it with the sponge, the chances 
are that there will not be left the round spot which 
is as hard to get rid of as the original stain. Alcohol 
is of all liquid detersives the least likely to leave the 
obnoxious "ring." If you have used some other 
fluid, and the unsightly mark offends your eyes when 
the stain has vanished, and the silk is dry, try what 
I have found successful in more than one case. 

Stretch the silk taut and scratch very gently with 



THURSDAY 143 

your finger nail around the edges of the ring, always 
from it and evenly until you have blended the dark- 
ened portions of the silk with the rest. If done care- 
fully this will make the blur nearly, if not quite im- 
perceptible. Next time sponge with alcohol and 
ether, — in equal parts. If, in cleaning with any li- 
quid, you will put a thick, dry pad of cotton under 
the stained part of the stuff, there will be little dan- 
ger of the "ring." 

TO SET COLORS 

To set colors in new cotton fabrics dissolve one 
ounce of sugar of lead in eight quarts of water, and 
soak the articles in it over night. 

Or: Lay them in salt water enough to cover them 
several inches deep, and leave them there for five 
hours. The color will be set, and the dirt will not be 
permanent. 

Or: Soak for the same time in a strong infusion 
of alum. Dissolve the alum in hot water, but let it 
get cold before putting in the cotton or linen goods. 

STRAYS 

To prevent white silk from turning yellow when 
not in use: Wrap it in pale blue tissue paper, or in 
soft muslin that has been dipped in deep bluing 
water, then wrung out, dried and ironed. No starch ! 
You may also put a cake of pure white wax in the 

box. 

To take the odor out of stockings that smell of the 



144 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

dye, and the armpits of underwear and wash waists : 
When they are washed let the last rinsing be in alum 
water — about a teaspoonful of powdered alum to one 
quart of warm water. 

Jet 'passementerie may be cleaned by rubbing it 
with a cloth dipped in equal parts of alcohol and 
water. Dry afterward with a clean cloth. 

To clean jewelry with stones in it, wash it in warm 
suds made with yellow soap and a few drops of sal 
volatile. You will find that this makes the ornament 
brilliantly clean. 

Stains on -flannel olankets and light-colored wool- 
ens may be removed by an application of glycerin 
and raw yolk of egg — equal parts of each well mixed 
together. Let this soak in thoroughly, and, when 
it has done its work, remove it by washing with soapy 
water. 

To take chewing-gum from clothing, turn to our 
old friend gasoline. The gum will evaporate with 
the gasoline if rubbed a little with a cloth wet with 
gasoline. Not a trace of the gum will remain. This 
is better than scraping. 

To take varnish out of cloth: Soak the spots with 
a sponge dipped in alcohol, wetting the sponge as 
it dries, and covering with a thick cloth to prevent 
too rapid evaporation. When the varnish has soft- 
ened, scrape off all that will come away, and scrub 
off the rest with household ammonia. 

Alcohol will remove glue: Wet a sponge in this, 
lay upon a spot, covered with newspaper, to prevent 



THURSDAY 145 

evaporation, and leave for half an hour. Then 
sponge the softened glue with more alcohol. 

Clean leather-bound books with powdered pumice 
stone applied with a piece of soft cotton or wool. 
Rub until clean. 

ORNAMENTS 

Cut steel may be polished with powdered pumice 
stone, slightly moistened and applied with a soft 
brush or cloth. 

To clean a steel chain: Put it into a box three- 
quarters full of fine emery dust. Close the box and 
shake violently up and down and to and fro for sev- 
eral minutes. Now and then turn the box upside 
down and shake again, to leave no part of the chain 
untouched. 



CHAPTER XIII 

FRIDAY 
HOUSEHOLD PESTS, VEKMIN 

"There is no house howe'er so well defended," 
that is proof against the incursions of inseet invad- 
ers of domestic comfort and housemotherly pride. 
Each woman who reads these lines can recall without 
an effort some humiliating experience that burned 
the axiom into her astonished soul. 

To this hour, I find it hard to think with Christian 
charity of the relative-in-law, who, after spending a 
night in the pretty guest-chamber of the first house 
we ever owned, asked me placidly, at breakfast, if I 
knew that the moths had their habitat in the fretted 
cornice bordering the frieze I had thought handsome. 
We made much of cornices, and knew little of friezes 
then, and I was proud of the elaborate decoration of 
my newly-furnished chamber. 

"I saw them plainly as I lay in bed," continued 
the candid speaker, accepting a second cup of coffee, 
and asking incidentally, that it might be "hotter and 
sweeter than the first." "I am blessed with keen 
eyes, and I espied a colony of the little rascals hang- 
ing, heads downward, in the crannies of the pattern." 

Inwardly I chafed hotly, and said ugly things to 

146 



FRIDAY 147 

myself as to the chronic propensity of In-laws to say 
disagreeable things one's blood-kindred would keep 
to themselves. Outwardly, I smiled slightly and 
commented upon the ubiquitousness of moths who, 
like Solomon's representative spider, "take hold 
with their hands, and are in king's palaces." 

The In-law smiled superior to my feint at careless 
ease: "I thanked my stars my wife was not with 
me! The sight of a moth throws her into a panic. 
She would be sure that we would carry off eggs or 
larvse in our clothes." 

I scorned to inform him that I had personally con- 
ducted the spring campaign against creeping things 
of all species, and put down woolens for the summer 
with my own hands. How was I to think of hunting 
for wool-eating moths in the convolutions of a plaster 
cornice? As soon as he and his valise were out of 
the house, I led a raid upon crannies and convolu- 
tions. The ceiling of that room had been swept with 
a hair broom at least twice a month during the half- 
year of our occupancy of the house we joyed in call- 
ing ours. Mounted now upon a step-ladder and 
armed with a pointed paint-brush, and woman's in- 
alienable weapon — a hairpin — I hunted and slew un- 
til I could find not one more to add to the host of 
wriggling larvae, and the eggs that promised in- 
crease of family within a week. If I could not at 
on ce — or ever — forgive the officious In-law for dis- 
covering and proclaiming what I should have pre- 
vented, I laid the lesson to heart. To this hour I 



148 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

do not comprehend what took the wool-eaters into re- 
cesses where there was nothing to feed upon. The les- 
son set for me was that they seek out all manner of 
unlikely lairs in which to increase and multiply for 
the housewife's confusion and shame 'of face and 
heart. 

The same may be said of other and even more ob- 
jectionable " creatures" who molest and make afraid 
the careful housekeeper and are the slattern's dis- 
grace. There may be reason in the country home 
for the popular belief that the presence of nocturnal 
prowlers in the bedroom, moths in carpets and cur- 
tains, roaches in the kitchen, and red ants in the 
pantry — not to mention silver- buffalo- and carpet- 
bugs — reflects irretrievable ignominy upon the mis- 
tress of the infested premises. A fair degree of care 
should suffice to keep her domain free from the few 
who are imported by traveling visitors, or from town 
in the trunks of "hired help." Her urban sister — 
unless she lives in a detached house (and not one 
family in ten thousand does this) — is subject to the 
inroads of predatory bands from neighboring houses 
or flats. To the dweller in cities the warfare is prac- 
tically ceaseless. It is not enough to drive them 
away from her premises. They must be extermi- 
nated, root and branch, or the routed forces, ban- 
ished, for a time, to territories to the right or left of 
the victor, or maybe to the upper or lower floor — re- 
turn with whetted appetites as soon as the fumiga- 
tion is fairly over. 



FRIDAY 149 

Merciless dealing is the true wisdom here. I take 
this occasion to enter my personal protest against 
the weak sentimentality that entrenches itself behind 
such puerilities as the assertion that everything alive 
has an equal right to live. I take issue with Uncle 
Toby who, in releasing the fly that had tickled his 
nose pertinaciously, declared that "there is room in 
the world for thee and for me." Leigh Hunt calls 
Uncle Toby ' ' the pitier of the devil himself. ' ' Prom 
my standpoint, the man who could capture the devil 
and then let him free to do his will upon other men, 
is as cruel as he is weak. Uncle Toby's liberated fly 
flew off to torment somebody else, — perchance to 
goad a saint to profanity. It is not true — if Shake- 
speare did say it — that 

"The poor beetle that we tread upon, 
In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great 
As when a giant dies." 

A fly that has just been bereft of both wings, will 
fall to work greedily upon a drop of honey set close 
to him, his enjoyment of the sweet evidently as lively 
as if he had not been maimed. If the beetle were a 
cockroach, common humanity demands that he should 
be trodden under the housewifely slipper. 

If I speak warmly on this subject, it is because I 
have witnessed so many exhibitions of misdirected 
sympathy and inconsistent compassion. It is not 
ten years since I was condemned openly and held up 
to public reprobation for advising a woman whose 



150 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

premises were overrun by a breed of mice too know- 
ing to enter the traps set in their sight, "to catch one, 
smear him with tar, and. let him go." 

"Mice are cleanly little beasties," I added, "and 
as he runs, he will besmear the sides of his hole and 
the walls with tar. His comrades can not abide the 
stickiness upon their fur, and will flee as for their 
lives." This statement of a fact was branded in 
the condemnatory resolutions of the body that ar- 
raigned me, as "flippantly trifling with the suffer- 
ings of harmless creatures that had as much right to 
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness as their 
tormentor." The paper then went on to say that, if 
the murder of the "beastie" were a domestic and 
neighborhood necessity, he should be drowned in 
warm water. "Not hot, but with the chill taken off, 
that the shock of immersion may be lessened. ' ' 

Since vermin — including "rats and mice and such 
small deer," are a direct menace to human health 
and happiness, they must go! To inflict needless 
pain upon anything that God has made, is a sin. 
Therefore, let justice upon the evil doer be done as 
swiftly and as effectually as possible. To mutilate 
a beetle is wanton cruelty, even though the victim be 
cold-blooded and incapable of feeling such suffering 
in dying as would attend a cut of a giant's finger. 

Now for the application of our sermon : — 

Begin we with moths, classed in Holy Writ with 
the corruptions of rust upon human riches. They 
are dear lovers of warmth and of darkness, when 



FRIDAY 151 

joined to warmth. Dusty corners are a delight, and 
fleecy folds the acme of luxury. Therefore keep 
your rooms well-aired and admit the sunshine lav- 
ishly. Sweep the corners and the walls— and ex- 
plore the cornices! 

IN PUTTING AWAY WOOLENS AND FURS 

Beat and brush out all the dust, as the first and 
most important step. Where eggs are not, the live 
moths can not come. Even with the lowest orders 
of creation, there is no such thing as spontaneous 
generation. See to it that every thread and hair of 
the stuff is visited by the brush. Then, hang it in 
the hottest sunshine you can find. Leave it thus for 
a day, and when the articles are brought in at even- 
ing, put them into a clean trunk or box — or barrels 
that have been wiped clean and then swabbed with 
camphor. Of all known drugs this is most abhor- 
rent to moths and other creeping things. 

Next day, take the woolens- and furs into the porch, 
if you have one. A bright, airy room with a hard- 
wood floor, is the next best place. You should have 
abundance of newspapers saved for the occasion. 
Printer's ink is as unwelcome to moths as to bigger 
sinners. Lay in between the folds of each article 
plenty of camphor balls, or gum camphor. Envelop 
it, next, in newspaper, pinned carefully at the open 
ends. Finally, sew or pin up the parcel in un- 
bleached muslin, or in cheese-cloth, and lay away in a 
perfectly dustless chest, box or cask. Never lose 



152 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

sight of the cardinal — and the comforting — truth 
that, if the air be excluded and there are no un- 
guarded cracklets through which the dust may pene- 
trate to the contents of the parcel, it is a physical 
impossibility for moths to get at them, were the box 
not opened in ten months, or ten years. 

A notable housewife, who dislikes the smell of 
camphor, claims that the use of it is a needless pre- 
caution, if the woolens and furs be entirely free from 
dust — therefore of eggs and larvse — when they are 
put away. I have, myself, dispensed with camphor 
or any other preservative, and sustained no damage 
from the omission. 

When you are ready to put away furs and woolens 
and want to guard against the depredations of moths, 
pack them securely in paper flour sacks, and tie them 
up well. Before putting away your muff or furs 
for the winter, twirl them by the cords at the ends 
so that every hair will Straighten itself. Put them 
in their boxes, and paste a strip of paper where the 
lid fits on tightly. 

Turpentine is a valuable ally in the righteous war. 
The odor is clean and wholesome. Sprinkle a little 
of the turpentine in the bottom of trunks and draw- 
ers, and cover with a fresh newspaper. Also, satu- 
rate pieces of soft cloth, and place in the corners, 
away from the clothes. In midsummer often open 
them up, and tuck in a fresh supply without remov- 
ing the articles. Keep a bottle of turpentine in the 
wardrobe or closet, and occasionally sprinkle a few 



FRIDAY 153 

drops around. It is good for furs or feathers or 
anything in which these pests live. 

Endorsement of the excellence of this means of de- 
fense comes from a veteran: 

"Two years ago, when house-cleaning, I found 
many moths in parlor chairs, closets, boxes — almost 
everywhere. After thorough dusting and cleaning, 
turpentine was applied freely to edges of upholster- 
ing, all seams in boxes, bureau drawers and closets, 
and no moth has ever been seen here since. Bugs 
will not, for years after, go where turpentine has 
been applied. Mosquitoes will not trouble you if 
you paint the headboard of the bed with it." 

To keep moths out of upholstered furniture, car- 
pets and clothing, heat a flat-iron very hot, place on a 
brick or stone in the room, put as much gum camphor 
as will lie on under the handle of the iron and close 
up the room for a few hours. 

SILVER-MOTHS AND BUFFALO-BEETLES 

A most pestilent crew! Their field of action is 
generally the carpet, the rug (the more costly the 
better) and upholstered furniture. 

So far as I can judge, they attract one another. 
Like Longfellow's vultures and human woes — 

"They gather, gather, descending floekwise — " 

until the poor housemother is distraught beyond 
expression. Try this plan of warfare: Stir red 
pepper into wood alcohol in the proportion of a table- 



154 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

spoonful to a pint. With a syringe inject the liquid 
into every crevice and corner. Turn up the edges 
of the carpets and wet them with the mixture. Shut 
the rooms up closely for a few hours to allow the al- 
cohol to evaporate slowly. It is not likely that a 
single treatment will abolish the evil. Persevere, 
adding, now and then, a lump of camphor, crushed, 
to the pepper. 

When you leave home for the summer, drench car- 
pets, etc., with gasoline, in which gum camphor has 
been dissolved, and close the room thus visited. No 
vermin can live under this heroic treatment. 

Or: Drench the edges of the carpets and all along 
the bottom of the baseboard with gasoline. Shut the 
room up tightly for twenty-four hours. Open and 
air. Let no artificial light be taken into the room 
meanwhile. This will kill any sort of vermin. 

For a moth-infested rug: First, take the rug and 
have it beaten well from the wrong side. When, no 
dust remains, spread it to full size in a disused room, 
and drench it with gasoline. Roll it up, wrong side 
out, to retain the strength of the gasoline, and close 
the room for two days. Open in broad daylight, un- 
roll and air your rug, and return it to its usual place. 
There will be no moths left alive in it. 

The gasoline is more effective still if mixed with 
camphor or cedar oil. Allow a tablespoonful of 
cedar oil to a quart of gasoline, shaking the bottle 
hard to mix the ingredients thoroughly. Keep the 
bottle closely corked. 



FEIDAY 155 

FOR FURNITURE 

(1) If furniture is infested with moths, remove 
the lining beneath the seat and interline with tar 
paper. 

(2) If the moths have got into the carpet it must 
be taken up, thoroughly shaken and pressed with a 
flat-iron as hot as it will bear without scorching. 
Then liberally sprinkle the floor where it is to lie 
with spirits of turpentine, pouring it into any cracks 
there may be between the boards. 

FLEAS 

Pennyroyal, properly used, is sure death to fleas. 
If the green herb is in full season, order a bushel or 
more of it through a market man, and strew it 
thickly in every flea-infested room. Take one room 
at a time : cover the floor with pennyroyal, and shut 
door and windows, not opening them again for two 
days. Then gather up the withered herbs, and burn 
them at once. Repeat the process if it is necessary, 
which is not likely. If you can not get the green 
herb, put oil of pennyroyal into boiling water, and 
scrub floors and woodwork with it. 

Or: Since the fresh pennyroyal is very hard to 
obtain in a large city, for a six-room flat take three 
pounds of sulphur, wet with alcohol, or three sul- 
phur candles. After removing silver and gilt arti- 
cles and dainty colors, put the sulphur into an old 
pan and set inside of another pan of water. Unlock 



156 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

the windows, so that they may be opened from out- 
side, and ignite. Be careful not to inhale the fumes. 

From a tropical city where the nimble pests gain 
foothold in the beds, eluding the daily quest, and 
bobbing up serenely as soon as the weary foreigner 
lays him down to sleep, we have a message : 

"Saturate one corner of a handkerchief with coal 
oil, just the least you can, so as not to drip, squeeze 
it tightly with the hand; pass it between the sheets 
so as to scatter the odor around where the fleas are ; 
then pin the kerchief on the back part of the night- 
robe just below the shoulder. This I do to keep 
from smelling the odor of the oil myself. 

"The fleas will soon leave the bed and house. I 
keep a little cloth saturated and place it so it can not 
be smelled by myself. The fleas soon desert the 
room." 

To whatever means you may resort, add this to it. 
Lay sheets of "sticky fly-paper" under the bed and 
other large articles of furniture, also along the bot- 
tom of the baseboard in secluded corners. Do this 
at night, since the papers will be unsightly in the 
day, and veritable snares for unwary feet. Next 
morning, look at them, and if they are not dotted 
with black specks, that will never be nimble again, 
do not repeat the experiment. Burn paper and fleas 
together. 

Fleas upon cats and dogs: Upon four ounces of 
foxglove leaves, pour two quarts of boiling water, 



FRIDAY 157 

and with this wash the animal. Repeat the opera- 
tion three or four times a year. 

Or: "Wash him well in two gallons of water to 
which you have added a cupful of kerosene. Some 
hours later wash with strong suds made of tar soap. 
Swab him with pure water and comb his hair. 

ANTS RED AND BLACK 

The words recall another instance of ill-directed 
sentimentality. A boy-visitor in a house where I 
was also a guest, pursued a big black ant that was 
running across the drawing-room floor with a grain 
of sugar in his mouth, and was about to set his foot 
upon it when his mother arrested him: "My son! 
Let the poor innocent thing go ! How often have I 
told you never to kill an insect?" 

Was it mean and spiteful in me when I smiled to 
myself to see her shudder at sight of a black ant — 
I hoped it was the escaped thief — swimming in the 
glass of iced tea passed to her an hour later? The 
hostess apologized distressfully, as she exchanged 
the glass for another, by saying that "the wretches 
are everywhere, this summer! We are tormented 
Out of our wits by them in the kitchen and pantries." 

Even tender-hearted Cowper, in excluding from 
his list of friends the man who "needlessly sets foot 
upon a worm," admits that the intruder upon the 
alcove's beauty and the household's neatness must 
die. 



158 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

"A. place for everything, and everything in its 
place," is the surest route to fulfilment of Heaven's 
first law, Order, and the place for red and black ants 
is not upon my table, in my sugar-bowl, or upon 
veranda and parlor floor. 

Some ways of getting rid of the smaller varieties. 
Procure a large sponge, wash it well and press dry, 
which will leave the cells quite open; then sprinkle 
over it powdered sugar, and place where the ants are 
most troublesome. They will soon take up their 
abode in the cells. Dip the sponge in hot water, 
which will wash them out. Put more sugar on the 
trap for a new haul. 

(2) Mix five cents' worth of tartar emetic in an 
equal amount of sugar. Make it quite moist with 
water, put into small dishes and set on shelves where 
ants are troublesome. The ants disappear as mys- 
teriously as they came. Keep it out of the reach of 
children, as it is poisonous. 

(3) Take one-half cake of yeast and dissolve it 
in a little water, then add a half-cup of syrup. Set 
the mixture around their haunts in the saucers of 
flower-pots. 

(4) Scatter a few whole cloves on the shelves 
where they congregate. They appear not to like 
strong spices. 

(5) Use borax and red pepper freely. Lay rags 
dipped in kerosene in their way and tack sticky fly- 
paper to the underside of your shelves. 

(6) Wash the inner walls with strong red pepper 



tea and rub the outer with turpentine soap, repeat- 
ing weekly. 

(7) Borax and red pepper; soap, mixed with 
cayenne smeared on the edges and at the back of the 
shelves. 

Let me commend, in particular, the expedient of 
smearing the underside of pantry shelves with soap 
into which cayenne pepper has been worked. Next 
to this I place the sticky fly-paper recommended in 
premises infested by fleas. Ants seem to have a spe- 
cial antipathy for the odor of the composition coat- 
ing the paper. They are often found lying dead in 
heaps under the paper, without having attempted to 
cross it. 

Ants infesting lawns: May be disposed of more 
easily. Fill a machine oil-can having a long spout, 
with kerosene, into which you have stirred a tea- 
spoonful of red pepper. Thrust the tip of the noz- 
zle as far into each ant-hill as it will go easily and 
inject the peppered oil into the hole. It is sure death 
to the depredators. If poured upon the grass it will 
blight it. Hence the need of a can and nozzle. 

A grateful correspondent will not object to the 
insertion here of an extract from her letter : 

"I have rid the house of ants by following your 
directions. I put carbolic soap into all cracks and 
crevices, rubbed it upon door- and window-sills, and 
scalded the ant-hills in the garden with boiling 
water. The ants dislike the odor of carbolic acid in 
this special soap." 



160 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Since the odor of carbolic soap is unpleasantly 
suggestive to some of us, connected, as it is, with hos- 
pitals and infectious diseases, I return to the soap 
and cayenne. Common laundry soap may be used. 
If hard, it may be moistened with pepper tea, until 
soft enough to be wrought into a paste with the 
powdered cayenne. 

BOOK-WORMS 

Not the human variety, but a tiny insect that bur^ 
rows into the bindings of our choicest volumes — 
leather, morocco or vellum. Happily for our peace 
of mind, they are less numerous by far than ants, 
fleas or moths, but when they do get in their fine 
work, they show no respect for author or decoration. 
The stoutest bindings crumble before their under- 
mining. 

Clean the bindings thoroughly with a dry cloth, 
and dislodge the insects by the librarian's trick of 
striking two volumes together gently and repeatedly. 
This shakes out eggs and larvae. Had this simple 
precaution been practised every fortnight, the mites 
would not have been bred in your bindings. When 
all the books have been taken from the shelves and 
treated in the way I have indicated, dust the shelves 
well and go over every part of them with a brush 
dipped in olive oil, to which has been added one- 
third part of oil of cedar. Wash the underpart of 
each shelf, as well as the upper, also the backs, with 
this preparation, working it well into the wood. 



[When it is quite dry, put the books back into their 
places and shut up the library for a few hours, that 
the odor of the cedar may impregnate the bindings. 
Repeat the process at the end of two weeks. The 
cedar oil will prevent mold, and effectually arrest 
the operations of the marauders. 



CHAPTER XIV 
Friday {Concluded') 

OTHER HOUSEHOLD PESTS 
ROACHES AND WATER-BUGS 

We abbreviate proper and common names in this 
hurrying country of ours, and the housewife, curi- 
ous to classify the insect Arab who roams kitchen 
and bath-rooms of mansion and flat, defiant of rank 
and rules — must not consult dictionary and cyclope- 
dia in the lead of the alphabet. "Roach" is there 
set down as a fish, and divers other things, includ- 
ing a style of dressing one's forelock — never as a 
beetle. We are in too great a hurry to get rid of 
him to make a scientific study of the nuisance. 
Pause we a moment to acquaint ourselves — not with 
him — we know too much of his methods and person- 
ality to spend time in rehearsing them. It is inter- 
esting, nevertheless, to note the faithful description 
of this pervasive tormentor of the domestic circle, 
given by our naturalists. 

"They are nocturnal in their habits and very 
troublesome in houses, where they often multiply 
with great rapidity, infesting kitchens and pantries 
and attacking provisions of all kinds. They have a 
very offensive smell." Could the most sorely ha- 
rassed housemother, with a fine command of her ver- 

162 



FRIDAY 163 

nacular at the service of her temper, sketch our 
Pest's portrait more accurately? To cap the climax 
of odiousness, he inflicts upon the memory a ses- 
quipedalian title. The common kitchen species is 
the Blatta (or Periplaneta) Orientalis. His near 
relative, the water-bug, or croton-bug, is known in 
scientific circles as Blatta Germanica. He was 
brought to our inhospitable shores in the hold of 
German vessels. Ever since then, he has been a 
stowaway of the vilest type. 

Borax comes into deserved prominence in the list 
of our helpers in the business of freeing our prem- 
ises of native and imported varieties. It is war to 
the death with us. There are no reservations for 
aborigines; no naturalization laws for the alien. I 
have found borax-— cheap, clean, and harmless to 
Christian creatures — more efficacious than anything 
else tried in my kitchen. My German cook pro- 
nounced it "no good" after three nights' experi- 
ment. At the end of that week she informed me ex- 
ultantly that the "big fellows were all gone, and none 
but foolish babies came out." In ten days these had 
also disappeared. We strew borax thickly over 
shelves and blow it into cracks. lYou may try mix- 
ing corn-meal with molasses and red lead into a 
paste and setting saucers of this in the roaches' path. 
Or, substitute tartar emetic for the red lead. Both 
are highly recommended. 

One co-worker, to whom I imparted the history of 
my success, offers a substitute in part : 



164 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

"Mix equal parts of sugar, borax, Paris green and 
sulphur. I get fifteen cents' worth and put it in an 
atomizer, such as is used for insect powder, and 
sprinkle wherever they may be. I take everything 
out of my pantry and put the powder around back 
of the shelves. Then I put clean paper back on and 
replace things. It has been there now for about six 
months. I sprinkle mine at night, and next morn- 
ing I clean up the floor and wipe off the walls. It 
must stay in the cracks. You won't miss any roaches 
for two or three weeks, but after two or three months 
there will be no more, if the powder be properly 
used." 

It is plain that there is no royal road to extermina- 
tion. A touch of genius — defined by the great Ital- 
ian poet-painter as Eternal Patience — is indispensa- 
ble to success. 

It has been shown in other cases, that they will 
leave if pennyroyal is used in their haunts. A good 
way to use it is to wet a cloth in water ; then let fall 
a few drops of the oil of pennyroyal upon it, and 
go over the shelves or other places where they are 
troublesome. 

A peculiarly tough tribe was blotted from the face 
of sink and refrigerator, store-room and meal barrel 
by borax mixed with cayenne pepper. It is main- 
tained by Southern housekeepers that a strong de- 
coction of common poke root, mixed with an equal 
quantity of black molasses, boiled to a syrup and 



FRIDAY 165 

spread upon bread is sure and present death to cock- 
roaches. They eat it greedily and die. 

A "Shut-in" who has leisure for experiments in 
domestic and scientific lines, writes eagerly to me : 

"Did you know that putting plaster of Paris and 
sugar together would kill all bugs in the pantry? 
They get dry and must drink, which kills them after 
eating." 

From the Pacific coast we have the authoritative 
order: "Five cents' worth of Paris green, one-half 
pound of powdered sugar and insect powder puff. 
In filling puff use one-third of poison to two-thirds 
of sugar, and place it wherever necessary. In a very 
short time the roaches will be no more." 

A merry young wife wrote joyously to me : 

"You told me in answer to my jeremiad over 
household pests, to try borax, and encouraged me to 
think that if the plain borax, used with a free and 
flowing hand, did not accomplish the object, one 
pound of corn-starch and one-fourth pound of borax 
carefully mixed together and laid thickly around 
their 'happy hunting grounds' would clear out 
water-bugs. I tried it. I couldn't open a door in 
the flat but they were dropping down on my head. 
I tried it — and, presto, change ! In two months not 
one could be seen. That was over a year ago, and 
none has shown up since. If any more move in I 
know just what to do." 

The conclusion of the whole matter would seem 



166 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

to be that (parodying Beau Brummell's farewell to 
English imitators) — Borax is the Man! 

Combined with cloves, with salt, with sugar, with 
Paris green, or, best of all, with cayenne pepper, 
it is the chosen instrument of destruction in the con- 
flict with the Blatta — domestic and foreign. 

MOSQUITOES 

If there are no nets in your windows and no screens 
in outer doors, and you can not rig up a mosquito-net 
over your bed, bathe faces and hands in spirits of 
camphor, or rub them with oil of pennyroyal or 
citronella before you go to bed. You may not like 
the odor, but the trifling annoyance is more easily 
borne than the irritation of the poison substituted by 
the mosquito for the drop of blood drawn from your 
body. Scientific men have established beyond dis- 
pute the fact that malaria is conveyed into the human 
body by the bite of the noisy little insect. He has 
two characteristics which should be cited in his favor. 
He gives warning of his attack, and he is not a creep- 
ing skulker. When he moves, it is on wings. There 
is no need to turn over the mattresses, or probe cracks 
in the search for him. Apart from these trifling 
offsets to total depravity, Uncle Toby himself, "the 
pitier of the devil," would have nothing to say why 
sentence of death should not be pronounced upon the 
female mosquito. For, although from the force of 
habit petrified by the usage of thousands upon thou- 
sands of years, we speak of the malaria-carrier as 



FRIDAY 167 

'"he," it is his spouse who does all the work of their 
world. Like the hive-drone, he is a cipher at home 
and abroad. 

The most effectual guard against the bite of the 
now-dreaded insect that I have ever known of, is a 
cone-shaped tablet manufactured in Venice and in 
general use in Italy. If my memory serves me 
aright, it was called Sonni tranquilli (Sleep quietly), 
and each box bore the stamp of the maker — Zam- 
proni. Our sleeping-rooms were large and lofty, 
during three winters passed in Italy — winters that 
ran far into the spring — and mosquitoes had both 
seasons for their own'. Every night, fifteen minutes 
before bedtime, we placed a couple of the small pyr- 
amids upon a shovel, set fire to them and amused 
ourselves by watching the miniature volcanoes as 
they ignited, puffed, fizzed, flamed, and threw out 
volumes of aromatic smoke oddly disproportioned 
to the size of the peak that emitted them. The shovel 
was waved gently over the beds, and into the far 
corners of the vast chamber, until the eruption 
ceased. Then we went to bed, and didn't so much 
as dream of stinging singers. The man who imports 
the marvelous cones into America should fill his 
pockets, and would deserve a monument at the hands 
of grateful countrymen. 

Until then, camphor is our surest refuge. 

Yet — this hint from a New Jersey woman (who 
should be an authority upon mosquitoes) is a move 
in the right direction : 



168 THE HOUSEKEEPEE'S WEEK 

"Take a piece of paper rolled around a lead pen- 
cil to form a case, and fill this with very dry Pyre- 
thrum powder, putting in a little at a time and press- 
ing it down with a pencil. This cartridge may be 
set in a cup of sand. An hour before going to bed 
the room is to be closed and one of these cartridges 
burned. Two are required for a large room." 

Coal oil poured on pools or any concavity contain- 
ing stagnant water will effectually stop all mosquito 
breeding. 

FLIES 

Three rules stand out, unchallenged, in the direc- 
tions for keeping a house free from this one of 
Pharaoh's Plagues: Cleanliness, Darkness, and 
Coolness. Open the windows wide early in the 
morning, before sunrise, — as soon after dawn as you 
can prevail upon yourself to forgo the last delicious 
doze for the sake of a greater and more general good. 
Open outer doors, also, and encourage the blessed 
breeze, as yet untainted by dust and smoke, to blow 
freely through halls and rooms. By eight o'clock 
at the latest, the shutters should be closed and the 
Venetian doors bowed, or fast shut. Within the 
shaded interior all should be spick-and-span as to 
dirt, cool in temperature — and silent as far as con- 
cerns the teasing buzzing of the "plagues," as hate- 
ful as the hiss of a serpent to the neat housewife. 

I read once in a "Woman's Corner" that the odor 
of lavender is so obnoxious to the musca domestica 
that a few drops upon a sponge will warn off the 



FRIDAY 169 

winged trespassers from the table on which it is laid. 
In generous faith in the "Corner," I bought the 
lavender, soaked a sponge in it, and set the saucer 
containing it on the desk at which I must do a day's 
work with the mercury soaring into the nineties, and 
the flies finding their way into the room by secret 
paths the human eye could not discover. Looking 
up from my paper at the end of ten minutes, to 
repel their attentions, I saw two seated luxuriously 
upon the sponge, and others crawling over the sau- 
cer! 

If you do not mind the sight of sick, staggering 
and dying flies dropping about table and floor, you 
may get rid of hundreds a day by making a syrup 
of brown sugar, adding tartar emetic, and setting 
saucers filled with it about the room. A syrup of 
sugar and water mixed with black pepper, is also 
fatal to them. Old-time housekeepers put this pre- 
paration in soup-plates and laid brown paper, such 
as sugar loaves were put up in for sale, on the sur- 
face of the trap. They also set snares for flies in 
tumblers three-quarter full of strong suds, on the 
tops of which were fitted paper covers — smeared on 
the underside with molasses. A hole was cut in the 
middle of the cover through which the foolish crea- 
tures crawled to destruction in the hot, soapy water. 
They were caught by the tumblerful, for window and 
door-screens had not as yet been heard of by the 
thrifty women. 

Cold green tea, made very strong, left to get cold 



170 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

on the leaves, strained off, and sweetened inordi- 
nately, is as poisonous to flies as to human gossips 
(who, by the way, always remind me of the most 
objectionable of the Musca tribe — the bluebottle). 
Set the syrupy mixture around the room in small 
saucers. It acts in a few minutes upon the winged 
pests. Human "tabbies" withstand the poison for 
years. 

Try a tea made of quassia, one pint ; brown sugar, 
four ounces; ground pepper, two ounces. Mix to- 
gether well and put in small shallow dishes. Set 
these about your living-rooms, 

To keep flies away from horses and other dumb ani- 
mals: Pick green walnut leaves (the black wal- 
nut) and pour boiling water upon them in quantity 
sufficient to make a strong decoction. When cold, 
strain, and sponge the horse or dog with it, letting it 
dry upon him. Plies will not touch anything thus 
treated. 

Tea, made in the same way of the green leaves of 
the watermelon, will have the effect of preventing 
flies from touching whatever is washed with it. 

Wild peppermint, and the commoner "smartweed" 
that disfigures our roadsides, when bruised and 
rubbed upon the horse's hide, and in the ears where 
insects are most troublesome to the worried beast, 
will secure him from their attack. \j 

When washing windows and floors put a few drops' 
of paraffin in the water, for this will keep away flies, 
moths, and all insects. Flies will not settle on win- 



FRIDAY 171 

dows that have been washed in water mixed with a 
little kerosene. 

RATS AND MICE 

I recommend, first, a first-class mouser, a cat that 
understands her business and has a double eye to it 
night and day. 

Second — Find the haunts of the "beasties" and 
with a bellows blow a pungent mixture of unslaked 
lime and red pepper as far into their runways as it 
will go. 

Third — Catch a rat in a trap, besmear him with 
liquid tar and let him go. He will make for his home 
and leave tarry tracks wherever he touches the wall 
or floor. His brethren will be tarred with the same 
fur, and tracks, and flee for their lives. 

To prevent mice from coming out .of the hole they 
have made nail a little piece of board over the hole, 
but before doing so put as many tacks in the board as 
you can, and have the points on the inside next the 
mouse's nose. As he tries to find his way through, it 
hurts him and he keeps away from it. 

Sprinkle "tar camphor" about their haunts. 
They can not abide the smell of camphor and they de- 
test tar. This precaution is especially useful in 
drawers and boxes that are seldom opened. The busy 
little beasts will gnaw through the sides of wooden 
cases of books to get at the leather bindings, of which 
.they are particularly fond. If the tar camphor be 
sprinkled freely among the books, they will not touch 
the "cases. 



172 , THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

CATERPILLARS, APHIDAE, ROSE BEETLES, ETC. 

Erom a Southern correspondent who is a success- 
ful horticulturist, I have what he attests is an effec- 
tual safeguard against the inroads of the foe that 
lays so many of our pleasant places waste in hot, dry 
seasons. 

" Twelve years ago I read of the sulphur cure for 
the worm pest in an agricultural paper. I had two 
cherry trees of the Glass cherry variety, that could 
never be used because of the worms. I followed di- 
rections minutely; namely, 'to bore a hole with a 
half -inch bit into the tree, slanting downward to the 
heart, at the second run of sap, which is in August, 
and fill the hole with powdered sulphur, then plug up 
tight' . 

"In two weeks from the time I did it the small 
caterpillars dropped from the tree in great numbers 
and the fruit has been most excellent ever since. The 
simple remedies are often the most valuable. I may 
add, for those who do not know, that the second run 
of sap goes up through the wood, and not as in the 
spring, between bark and wood." 

In my own orchard I have found much relief from 
the following application. It should be tried while 
the fruit buds are forming, and again before the fruit 
is more than half -grown. It may, also, be used upon 
ornamental shrubbery, berry vines and climbing 
plants. 

Make a strong decoction of Paris green in hot 



FRIDAY 173 

water ; let it get cold, stir up well and spray leaves, 
branches and trunks with it — abundantly. Repeat 
weekly until the worms are destroyed. 

For the small green destroyers of rose-trees and 
blossoms — known to botanist and entomologist as 
"aphidse," to the average gardener as plant-lice, and 
sometimes as " ant-cows" — I can recommend treat- 
ment that has abated the infliction to a satisfactory 
degree in my own garden. 

First — Water the earth about the roots of the 
afflicted plants with lime solution. Stir into hot 
water as much slaked lime as will dissolve in the li- 
quid, and cool. 

Use this early in the morning before the sun 
hatches the eggs, secreted in the ground, into larvas. 
A semi-weekly soak should, in time, make an end of 
the evil broods. 

Second — Beat into this same lime-water a pint of 
kerosene for each gallon of the lime-water, and con- 
tinue to beat until you have an "emulsion." Apply 
to the bushes early in the morning, or late in the even- 
ing, using a garden syringe. 

Third — Water, while the dew is on the roses, with 
tobacco tea, made over night and left to cool and 
strengthen until morning. 

Fourth — Sift powdered white hellebore over the 
bushes while the dew lies thick upon them; Scotch 
snuff, applied in like manner, is spoken highly of by 
some florists. The plague is sometimes so severe 
and pertinacious that all of the methods I have in- 



174 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

dicated are needed. Leaves are eaten into lace- 
work, and the tender buds of the flowers are riddled 
to the heart bv the voracious wretches. 

V 

A gardener is responsible for this piece of advice : 
"If plants are infested with insects, cut a potato in 
half, scoop out the inside, and place it on the soil un- 
der the plants. The insects will gradually assemble 
in it." 

Preventive measures are worth far more than ex- 
periments upon the full-grown insect. The lime- 
water destroys the coming aphid. 

VERMIN IN THE HAIR 

With the multiplication of public schools and our 
admirable system of compulsory education, bringing 
into daily association all classes of society — comes an 
attendant evil to which too little care is given by 
mothers Who have never known of it in their well- 
ordered households. In the conduct of a domestic 
Syndicate, extending over a term of a dozen years or 
so, my thoughts have been directed to the revolting 
subject by hundreds of letters from distracted moth- 
ers, brought face-to-face, and for the first time in 
their decent lives, with the problem of rooting out 
vermin from their children's hair. I use the word 
"rooting" advisedly. The child of ten or twelve 
years of age, who has been allowed to brush and comb 
her own hair for a year or more, under the supervi- 
sion of mother or nurse, having never so much as 
heard the name of a parasite always mentioned in 



FEIDAY 175 

whispers by lips polite (when alluded to at all), is 
ignorant of the danger of sitting in classes with mates 
whose mothers neglect the simplest details of per- 
sonal cleanliness. Before warning of the mischief is 
given by irritation of the tortured scalp, the loath- 
some squatters are in full possession, and prepared to 
defend their rights. The horror of the discovery of " 
the occupation is absolute misery to the parent. In 
her eyes, it is disgrace. Shampooing does not clear 
out the eggs that stick, like limpets to a rock, upon 
the pretty hair, and so close to the scalp that the 
comb does not drag them off. Extermination is a 
work of time and infinite patience, for the tiny 
fiends breed fast and live long. 

I see, in imagination, the fastidious reader shut 
down the page upon the loathsome topic. I could tell 
tales of discoveries made by the parents of children 
who attend select private schools, and are never suf- 
fered to ride in street-cars, that might mitigate the 
shuddering critic's judgment as to the propriety of 
putting this part of my chapter into print. 

Imprimis, wash the hair and the scalp thoroughly 
with strong suds made of warm water and tar soap. 
Add a little ammonia to the suds. Yes ! I know it will 
take the oil and, consequently, the luster out of the 
luxuriant locks of which you are .so innocently proud. 
The luster may be coaxed back when more harmful 
things are disposed of. Wash, comb and brush the 
hair well. Then obey this simple prescription. 

Tincture of larkspur will certainly destroy vermin 



176 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

in the hair, and make an end of the "nits" or eggs, 
that cling to the hair and promise other broods. Be 
careful to keep the tincture out of the reach of chil- 
dren, as it is a deadly poison, taken internally. Wet 
the hair and scalp well at bedtime for a week. 

Old countrywomen have been aware of the virtues 
of larkspur as a specific for this affliction for many 
years. But they made a strong decoction of the blos- 
soms and used it as a wash for the hair. The more 
potent tincture is a veritable specific, if the use of it 
be intelligently and faithfully continued. 

BEDBUGS 

They may have a dozen aliases, being even more re- 
pulsive to the housemotherly mind (if possible) than 
the "creepers" just dismissed with a mighty sigh of 
relief. The murderer of sleep and the thrifty house- 
wife 's chief est dread — is a "red rover," a "nocturnal 
creeper," a "household pirate," a "B.B." a "double 
B," and so on and so on, until we strike, with a shock 
that is a surprise at connecting anything so dignified 
with the noxious — Thing! upon the dictionary name. 
It is a Cimex lectularius! Henceforward, in dealing 
with this objectionable creature as briefly as is com- 
patible with the part he plays in cottage, villa, city 
flat, hotel, sleeping-car and steamer — let us for the 
sake of euphony and peace of imagination, speak 
of himasthe"C.L." 

* (1) The cheapest, deadliest preparation to every 
kind of insect life, and the one to be found in every 



FRIDAY 177 

house at any time, is ordinary kerosene, or coal oil. 
Get at the C.L. with an atomizer or a feather. Re- 
peat the dose every week for three or four weeks, and 
the cure will be radical. 

(2) Take a cake of white soap or a piece of tallow, 
and with a knife scrape as much as is needed; then 
add an ounce of powdered corrosive sublimate, mak- 
ing a smooth paste. After washing the bedstead with 
cold salt water, wipe dry and apply the paste to 
every crevice. This will not evaporate or soak into 
the wood as liquids do, but will prove a ready and 
deadly feast for all partakers. 

(3) There is nothing else on earth that will kill 
them or destroy their eggs so quickly as gasoline. It 
cleans everything it touches, and does not harm the 
finest finish of anything. Apply it with a five-cent 
brush or a stiff feather. It will run into the smallest 
cracks and crevices, and one can easily brush the 
dead eggs, dust, etc., from the same. 

(4) Spirits of turpentine applied very freely with 
a five-cent paint brush to all crevices, edges of base- 
boards, window and door casings — anywhere that a 
wise O.L. would seek a hiding-place — will call each 
and all "to fold their tents like the Arabs and as si- 
lently steal away. ' ' If they have already taken lodg- 
ings with expectation of board, in furniture, or if 
you are moving into a building where they may pos- 
sibly have an earlier claim, just paint every bit of 
your bedsteads and other furniture without missing 
any spot, with brush and turpentine, also upholster- 



178 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

ing and mattresses around edges and tufting. This, 
after freeing from all dust and dirt. 

(5) An ounce, more or less, of formaldehyde, ac- 
cording to the size of the room — may be vaporized in 
a room. In this case close the doors and windows 
and pad them tightly. Do not open the room for 
twenty-four hours, when every living thing in it will 
have been killed. Formaldehyde will not injure the 
most delicate fabric. It comes also in candles — so 
called — but the liquid is the cheaper form. 

(6) Fifty cents' worth of quicksilver from the 
druggist, beaten together with the whites of four 
eggs. It takes about an hour, and it will form a kind 
of paste. Buy a small flat brush, such as artists use 
(you can buy it at a painter's for ten cents) and paint 
the corners of mattress and springs and all crevices in 
the bed and room with the paste. 

(7) A good mixture is one ounce of corrosive sub- 
limate dissolved in a gallon of gasoline. With a 
plant-syringe inject the mixture into every crack of 
walls and floors, beds and other furniture. It will 
discolor nothing, so you may use it freely upon mat- 
tresses, etc. Take one room at a time, and then shut 
it up for twenty-four hours. Open in broad day- 
light, admitting the air freely and keeping artificial 
lights out of the room. Sweep thoroughly and bum 
the sweepings at once. 

These "infallible" preventives and extirpators 
set down here were made over to me by seven of the 
best housekeepers of my acquaintance. The moral 



FKIDAY 179 

of the collection is : If the particular breed of C.L. 
that makes your life a burden does not yield to one of 
the "sure-and-certains," try another. 

Now, may I offer a bit of my personal experience % 
The C.L. was imported into my new and dear country 
cottage within two months after we took proud pos- 
session of it, by a new cook who had come direct from 
one of the maids' boarding-houses that are favorite 
breeding-grounds of the abhorrent creeper. As I 
learned later, the woman took advantage of our 
week's absence on a visit that summer, to remove her 
pillows and herself to our bedchamber during our so- 
journ with our friends. A fortnight later, the hor- 
rible truth of the C.L. 's occupancy of my bed and the 
baseboard of our chamber was revealed. I spare the 
reader details touching the condition of Bridget's 
own room on the next floor. We ripped up her mat- 
ting and tumbled it out of the window, sending bed- 
clothes to keep it company. All were beaten at a safe 
distance from the house, then left in the blaze of the 
August sunshine for three days. They were turned 
every hour and taken in at night. Mattress, bed- 
stead and walls were soaked with a mixture of gaso- 
line and camphor. Half a pound of gum camphor 
was broken into bits and put into a demijohn. The 
next morning the demijohn was shaken hard and 
long. Then, with a syringe, the liquid was injected 
into every crack of the flooring and above the base- 
board. A strip of molding running along the junc- 
tion of the walls with the ceiling, required and had 



180 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

earnest attention. The creatures were ambushed 
there in squads. : After saturating the mattress and 
spraying the bedstead, as I have said, we closed and 
locked the door. Nobody entered the room for two 
days. It was opened and aired at the end of the time 
and a new tenant was installed. 

For twenty years not a C.L. was seen there. Then 
a drunken cook arrived from the city, went to bed 
within an hour after she alighted from the train, and 
arose at my stern insistence at ten o'clock the follow- 
ing day, that she might be sent back to town. She 
had slept in her day clothing, and when the chamber- 
maid stripped off the sheets to air the bed, she found 
thirteen lively specimens of the C. L. clan between 
them! The room was treated to another course of 
gasoline and camphor, with the same result that at- 
tended the former experiment. 

Yet housewives wonder "how upon earth a C.L. 
ever finds its way into a decent house !" 

Gloss over his name and nature as we may, he is 
a filthy thing ! In our day of much travel and indis- 
criminate mingling of passengers of all nationalities 
and habits of life, the price of exemption from the 
crafty and incredibly prolific C.L. is perpetual vigi- 
lance. The canny chambermaid pries warily into the 
corners and tufts of mattress and pillows daily ; pokes 
an inquisitive hat-pin into the crannies of the iron or 
brass bedstead tri-weekly, and suns blankets duly in 
' ' the good old summer time. " It is so much easier to 
keep "them" out than to get them out that she does 
not grudge the trouble,. 



CHAPTER XY 

SATURDAY 

FLOORS, WALLS AND THEIR COVERINGS 

"When the sun is in the West 
Lazy people work the best." 

Many a housekeeper who has striven conscien- 
tiously to keep up with the demands of five working 
days, is morbidly inclined to apply this morsel of pro- 
verbial philosophy to her hard-driven self with a dif- 
ference as to the time of extra labor. It can not be 
right — so she reasons — that every Saturday should 
be so full of "must-be-dones" from the rising of the 
sun until the going down of the same, that she can 
hardly catch her breath between them. 

"If I were a really good manager and wisely sys- 
tematic," runs on the self -accusation, "this would 
not happen every week. Things" — convenient and 
all-embracing word! — "would be kept in such order 
that Saturday need not be general cleaning-day." 

For her comfort be it said that this has been the 
experience of every other housewife since the begin- 
ning of Time. I dare say that Eve bestowed unusual 

181 



182 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

care upon the "happy walks and shades" — the bow- 
ers, that 

"Touched by her fair tendance, gladlier grew," — 

on the day preceding the Sabbath. Throughout all 
Christendom, the wish prevails that the "day of rest 
and gladness" shall not be marred for us by the ghost 
of duty unfulfilled. With some of the workers there 
is a subconscious desire to sweep and garnish as for 
the reception of the Lord of the Sabbath. 

The ordinary houseworker has a rooted aversion to 
carrying the labors of this week into the next. One 
of the ear-marks of the slattern in the eyes of her 
fellows is the trick of putting off a little ironing, a 
little scrubbing and half the silver-cleaning until the 
more convenient season which, like to-morrow, never 
comes. Duties thus postponed, gather weight like 
snow-balls. They are as hard to pick up as dropped 
stitches and have the same effect in the finished whole. 

"A time for everything and everything in its 
time," trots smoothly in harness with the age- worn 
maxim quoted at the beginning of a former chapter. 

In obedience to this, much of the work set down un- 
der the head of Saturday, should be done in the "be- 
tweenities" of the preceding days. At least two- 
thirds of it belongs to the house-cleaning period. 
The grouping of the multifarious ways and means 
of banishing dirt, and keeping it at bay, is contrived 
for the sake of convenience in reference. 

Have all your implements handy before you begin 



SATURDAY . 183 

your cleaning — brooms and brushes, plenty of scrub- 
bing- and dust-cloths, broom-bags, soap, turpentine 
and chlorides, or caustic soda, for pipes. 

In this important task — one that is surpassed in 
gravity and in detail by none with which we have 
heretofore grappled — begin we with 

CARPETS — THE CARE AND THE CLEANSING THEREOF 

Carpets — the care and the cleansing thereof: Let 
me drop a word of motherly counsel to the young 
housekeeper, who recoils in dismay at the prices 
asked for velvet, Axminster, and body Brussels, and 
who faces the inexorable necessity of covering the 
floors of house, or apartment with "something." 

Do not have oriental rugs or velvet carpets in your 
parlor and cheap, thin ingrains up-stairs. Better 
matting for all the rooms — if the floors are of plain 
deal — and lay down rugs of serviceable filling in solid 
colors, that harmonize with furniture and wall pa- 
pers. Buy the filling by the yard ; cut it into desired 
lengths and fringe out the ends. An excellent qual- 
ity may be bought at one dollar a yard, and, being 
alike on both sides, it will last twice as long as if it 
were not reversible. 

One of the thousand-and-one minor annoyances for 
which the housemother — no matter how experienced 
— is never prepared, is that rugs of single-ply ma- 
terial will curl at the corners. She may reverse them 
daily as punctiliously as she winds her watch, and by 
night they snarl as viciously as a cross dog raises his 



184 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

lip at a stranger's approach. Voluminous essays 
have been printed upon the "total depravity of inani- 
mate things." Our veteran housewife can give 
points on the subject to the ingenious authors. 

To curb the disposition of your "filling" rugs, tack 
a triangular bit of corrugated rubber, about six 
inches long, on the sides that make the right angle, 
under each corner of the rug. Bore several small 
holes in each corner of the rubber and sew through 
the holes and carpet. The stitches will be hidden by 
the pile of the rug, the short stitches being on that 
side. When the rug becomes faded, rip off the rub- 
ber, tack it on the other side and reverse the rug. 

TO DRY-CLEAN RUGS 

Be they cheap or expensive, there is no better way 
of dry-cleaning rugs at home than this : 

First, beat the rugs until no more dust flies from 
them. Then lay them flat and cover them thickly 
with powdered fuller's earth. Rub it in with a 
brush as if you were scouring. Roll up the rugs 
upon the powder and leave thus for a week before 
brushing and beating. 

After doing the weekly sweeping of carpets, take a 
dish-pan half full of water, with a cupful of am- 
monia in it and sweep the wrong way of the nap with 
it. One can not realize the amount of dirt taken up 
which otherwise would be ground in. It leaves it 
fresh-looking and likewise preserves it. 



SATURDAY 185 

TO WASH ORIENTAL RUGS 

One woman who rejoices in the possession of one 
dozen "real" oriental and antique rugs, testifies, 
upon the word of an occidental Christian, that she 
never sends her treasures to a professional cleaner. ■ 

"I clean them at home and fearlessly," she asserts. 
"Fearlessly, because I have done it every year for 
ten years. I trust nobody else to handle them, the 
operation being delicate in certain stages. 

"First, beat them thoroughly on both sides; then 
lay them on a flat surface and go over them with pure 
soap, warm water and a new scrubbing-brush, scrub- 
bing well but not too roughly if they are old. Sponge 
off well with several waters, then take a board with 
a perfectly smooth, rather fine edge (a piece of pic- 
ture molding is good) and scrape them — drawing it 
across them until all the water you can squeeze out is 
gone. Hang them in the air and dry thoroughly. If 
they have fringe put it into the suds, and squeeze out 
and it will be of beautiful creamy white." 

I have made experiments almost as daring with my 
own oriental rugs, seven of which have been in active 
use in my house for a quarter-century, and which 
promise to wear twice as long. I have sopped up ink 
with skim milk, and scoured the milk out with am- 
monia ; I have taken out grease with a paste of f ul- 
ler's earth, and washed out the tracks of muddy boots 
with warm suds, and the colors are as firm as when I 



186 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

bought the rugs. So I can believe my friend's ac- 
count of her heroic practice with hers. 

TO SWEEP BRUSSELS, THREE-PLY AND INGRAIN CAR- 
PETS 

If you use a broom — and this may be necessary 
about once a week, even when the floor is treated to 
the sweeper daily — you may scatter tea-leaves, well 
squeezed, over the floor before beginning the work. 
Or — wet newspapers, tear them into bits, squeeze out 
all the water that will come away, and use instead of 
the leaves. 

Or: if the carpet be very dirty: — Mix in a big 
pan coarse cornmeal, three parts — dry salt, one part. 
Sift several times to incorporate them thoroughly, 
and strew thickly all over the carpet. Rub it in with 
a blunt broom, then sweep faithfully, once against 
the nap, once with it. You will be horrified — yet 
delighted — at the quantity of dirt that will be rolled 
up under the vigorous strokes of the broom. If two 
sweepings do not get all the meal out, try a third. 

If you will substitute dry salt alone, for the meal 
and salt, it will freshen the colors, take out the dirt 
and kill moths, larvae and eggs, should any be in the 
wool. 

When sweeping a dusty carpet or rug, you may 
moisten bran such as you get in the feed-store, with 
clear, cold water; work with the hands until all is 
moist, and sprinkle over the carpet. Rub it in with 
the broom or brush; then sweep it all off. It will 
bring out the colors finely without raising any dust. 



SATURDAY 187 

The broom does its work well, if adroitly plied. 
The woman who understands how to Work it to ad- 
vantage, stands straight, holds the handle firmly, yet 
not with a fierce grip that tires her and stiffens the 
broom. She sweeps away from her, and if the whole 
room is to be swept, works from the corners toward 
the center of the floor. In so doing, she does not 
lodge dust in spaces the broom has already visited, 
but in a compact heap where all of it may be seen and 
taken up with the dust-pan and brush. The carpet- 
sweeper is a saving of spine, muscles, strength and 
time. A good one costs but a couple of dollars or so, 
and it will last for years. 

Sweep out the corners as usual first ; then run the 
sweeper all over the carpet. The labor is much less- 
ened, the carpet is cleaner than if swept with a 
broom, and very little dust is raised, so there is a 
saving all around. If rugs are used, a hair broom or 
old broom, covered with a cloth, is necessary to re- 
move the dust from the floor about them. 

Carpets can be cleaned and the color restored by 
going over occasionally with a broom dipped into 
warm water to which has been added a little turpen- 
tine. 

Once in ten days wash the carpet broom in hot 
soap-suds, shake it well and hang it up where it will 
dry quickly. A broom thus treated will last very 
much longer than one which is not washed, and it will 
clean the carpets much better. 

None of the methods in which broom or sweeper is 



188 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

used will clean the carpet, unless the implement be 
itself clean. Every time the sweeper is used it 
should be opened, the fluff, hairs and dust removed 
and the box brushed on the inside. The two minutes 
spent in the business will be repaid with interest by 
the increased efficiency of the sweeper. About once 
a month, moisten the brushes of the sweeper with 
gasoline in summer, and in winter with household 
ammonia. This disinfects the implement, and keeps 
it free from parasites that might, else, be scattered 
over the carpet. 

Brushes of all sorts last longer and do much better 
service if they are cared for and kept clean. House- 
hold brushes should be washed frequently. A good 
solution for this purpose is made by dissolving a 
pound of washing soda in a quart of hot water. This 
may be bottled and used at any time. "When you are 
ready to use the solution put a tablespoonful into a 
quart of water and wash your brushes in that. A 
little soap in addition for the soft brush is a good 
thing. Einse in cold water and dry in the open air. 

TO SCRUB A VERY DIRTY CARPET 

It was reserved for the brave housemother of to- 
day to demonstrate that no carpet — not even nursery 
ingrain, or a kitchen rag-carpet — need be thrown 
away because it is, apparently, hopelessly soiled. To 
leave it as it is would be dangerously unsanitary. It 
is whole in woof and stanch in warp. Stiff with ad- 
hesive dirt, including grease and stickiness, the sight 



SATURDAY 189 

of it is an offense to the neat-handed mistress and a 
disgrace to the household. If the colors be tolerably- 
fast the apparently hapless article may be scrubbed 
into comely usefulness. 

Have it taken up and beaten on both sides with 
stout whips that will get out the loose soil, yet not 
break the threads. This done, tack it again to the 
floor. Have ready two pails of clear hot water. In 
one dissolve one bar of good laundry soap, one that 
makes a fine lather. If your carpets have many light 
shades, use one cup of gasoline to a gallon of suds. 
If the carpet be all wool, use a few spoonfuls of am- 
monia. With a good stiff scrub-brush scrub the car- 
pet as you would the floor, but do not soak it. Wring 
your cloth in clean warm water and rinse off the 
suds ; then wipe as dry as possible with a clean cloth. 
If your carpet is not too wet when you get through 
the work, it will soon dry if the windows are left 
open. 

The repeated caution against soaking the carpet 
means much. Wipe as fast as you wash, doing a 
small space at a time, and changing the cloth with 
which the wiping is done before it gets wringing wet. 
The oftener you substitute a dry for a damp cloth, 
and the more effectually you get the wet out of the 
carpet, the sooner and the better the job will be done. 
Let no one tread on the carpet until it is perfectly 
dry. Do the washing on a hot day when the sun 
shines brightly and the wind brings no dust into the 
room. 



190 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

A second formula for scrubbing carpets comes 
from a practical and a capable housekeeper. 

Two bars of white soap, shaved fine ; one gallon of 
water; four ounces of borax; sixteen ounces of sal- 
soda; four ounces of puverized fuller's earth. Boil 
until well mixed; remove from the fire. Add three 
gallons of water and a half -pint of alcohol. 

Apply the solution to the carpet as directed in the 
foregoing recipe. 

This formula is especially useful when the carpet 
has lain on the floor of dining-room or kitchen, and 
is badly spotted with grease. The borax, sal-soda 
and fuller's earth have direct reference to the pre- 
ponderance of oily matter in the dirt. 

MATTINGS 

Mattings are less expensive than carpeting and 
cooler — perhaps more healthful — for summer wear. 
When buying matting get three or four yards extra 
for summer rugs. Cut this into the desired lengths 
and finish at the edges by pulling out the straws to 
the depth of about four inches and tying the threads. 
These rugs protect the matting as well as heavier 
ones, and are easily cleaned and, best of all, there is 
no fuzz and nap to wear off and make frequent 
sweeping a necessity. 

If you put matting down, be sure the floors are 
thoroughly dry before it is laid. Year old matting 
gains new life by being wiped up with salt and water. 
Do this not oftener than twice in a season, as the 



SATUBDAY 191 

brine has a tendency to rot the straw, if applied fre- 
quently. For other cleaning, when it gathers grime, 
sprinkle the matting with Indian meal and sweep it 
thoroughly, sweeping out the meal and the dirt with 
it. 

"Widths of matting sewed together with a loose 
stitch, using carpet thread, make the floor covering 
look neater and wear better than when staples are 
used to fasten it down. Even tin tacks, double 
headed, which are generally preferred to staples, rust 
in time, especially after the matting has had several 
washings, leaving ugly marks on the straw. Another 
advantage in sewing the breadths together is that 
dust and refuse do not settle as in the cracks left be- 
tween widths of matting put down in the usual way. 

Mattings, as well as carpets, should be lifted yearly 
in a house which is constantly occupied. The best 
mattings are the cheapest, since they are reversible, 
as a rule, thus yielding twice as much service as the 
poorer and loosely-woven varieties that break into 
fuzzy splinters after one summer's usage. 

LINOLEUM AND OIL-CLOTH 

Here, again, an article that costs somewhat heavily 
at first, looks better and lasts so much longer than 
the next best of its kind that it is wise economy to buy 
it when one can afford the original outlay. Inlaid 
linoleum will show no sign of wear for years, if prop- 
erly cared for, the blocks or lozenges being made 
separately and set into the fabric like a mosaic. The 



192 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

treatment of it is the same as that bestowed upon the 
cheaper oil-cloth when laid upon the floor. Neither 
of them should be scrubbed. If this course be fol- 
lowed the gloss will quickly be worn off. It should 
first be carefully washed with a soft brush, to remove 
all the dust and fluff, and then wiped with a large soft 
cloth wrung out in tepid (not hot) water. If it is 
very dirty it may be necessary to use a little soft soap, 
but this should be done rarely, and on no account 
must soda be used. "When it is dry, wipe over with a 
cloth or sponge dipped in skim milk. This in winter 
will brighten and preserve the colors and give it a 
polish. After sponging with the milk dry with a 
cloth. 

The milk should not be used in warm weather. It 
attracts flies, no matter how carefully it is dried. In 
winter, the drying must be thorough, as the dust, in 
settling upon the dampened oil-cloth, will form a vis- 
cid film with the milk. On this account, we never 
have our kitchen linoleum sponged with milk while 
we are in city quarters. The direful and unescap- 
able "blacks" that sift between window-sashes and 
keyholes give a dingy complexion to curtains and 
floor-coverings, be the housewifely watch never so 
vigilant. 

Use a soft, fine cloth in wiping oil-cloth and lino- 
leum. A coarse, rough piece of osnaburg, or bur- 
lap, will, in time, scratch the polished surface and 
injure it. Save old crash towels and other linens 
for the purpose. 



SATURDAY 193 

PAINTED FLOORS 

Housewives are not agreed as to the use of cold or 
of lukewarm water in cleaning paint. There is but 
one opinion among experienced cleaners as to the 
effect of hot water upon floors and walls coated with 
paint, with varnish, or with oil. It softens and dims 
paint; takes off varnish, leaving a sticky residuum, 
and transforms an oiled floor into a dirty surface that 
calls dismally for detersives. 

Says one housewife: "When cleaning paint, use 
simple cold water with a sponge or woolen cloth, wip- 
ing off with a dry cloth, and you will be surprised to 
see how quickly you will have to change the water. 
I have used this method for three years and could not 
be induced to go back to warm water." 

On the other hand a woman who has kept house as 
long, and as successfully, maintains that warm water 
does the work better and in less time. I let her speak 
for herself and for her theory : 

"We have just cleaned our kitchen walls, which are 
painted, and are so well pleased with the result that 
I would like others to know how we did it. To the 
one ordinary scrubbing-pail about two-thirds full of 
warm water we added a heaping teaspoonful of bak- 
ing soda (saleratus) and washed the walls with a 
sponge, rinsed with clear warm water and wiped dry 
with a cotton cloth. 

"The walls look as fresh and clear as though 
freshly painted. The soda does not injure the paint 



194 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

in the least and this way is much easier than any I 
ever tried before. It is also good for painted wood- 
work. I used about a pound of saleratus for our 
kitchen walls and woodwork, for I changed the water 
quite often — it was so soiled." 

Number three puts in her oar with a short, strong 
stroke : 

"Paint should be cleaned with a sponge and luke- 
warm water to which a little ammonia is added. 
Wipe dry with a clean cloth." 

Number four is as laconic: 

"Scrub with washing soda and cold water, taking 
a small area at a time, and wiping dry before goinr; 
on to the next." 

After reading these and dozens of other opinions 
based upon experience, I am not inclined to alter my 
own belief and practice. We wipe up our painted 
area and veranda floors with lukewarm water to 
which has been adde*d a little kerosene.. The 
warmth of the water keeps the oil thin, and the ker- 
osene takes up the dirt after a manner peculiar to it- 
self, while it brightens rather than dulls the polish. 

PAINTED WALLS 

Painted walls may be treated in the same way, 
changing the contents of the pail often. You can not 
have clean paint if it be washed with muddy water. 
Sweep the floor for the like reason before wetting it. 
Apropos of sweeping — the integrity of the paint 
would be maintained much longer if a hair-broom 



SATURDAY, 195 

were used instead of the common straw besom. The 
latter scratches if plied diligently. For many years 
I have had hardwood and painted floors swept with 
brooms done up in red or gray flannel petticoats. A 
bag of the size required to envelop the broom is 
sewed up on three sides and hemmed at the top. Into 
this hem a stout tape is run and when the broom is in 
the bag, the string is drawn, and tied about the handle 
to hold the bag in place. The flannel wears out in 
time, but the paint and varnish hold their own, and 
coarse red flannel is cheap. Sometimes I have sub- 
stituted lead-colored Canton flannel for the flannel, 
with the fuzzy side out. It sweeps clean, but when 
the fluff wears off the bag is threadbare and compara- 
tively useless. Don't make the mistake of cleaning 
paint with sand soap. It scratches the paint; the 
other soap will do the work. 

OILED AND HARD-WOOD FLOORS 

A notable New England housewife (and there are 
no more intelligent homemakers the world over than 
our New England dames) has generously written 
down for our use the story of her experience with a 
hard-wood floor of domestic manufacture. 

"In most households the easiest way to care for the 
floors is a problem. For the benefit of any one who 
will try my way I gladly give my recipe. While the 
expense is something at the start, it is a joy unde- 
scribed. Any man handy with nails can lay a floor 
over an old one. 



196 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

"My husband purchased hard pine tongued and 
grooved boards, laying them the long way of the 
room. Jam the boards together as you nail, to close 
the cracks. Be sure to use perfectly dry stock. Use 
slim wire nails and 'blind nail' securely down. 
When all is done, sweep two or three times, and if 
there are any spots do not attempt to do any washing, 
as water spoils the whole effect of the finish. 

"Now, make a swab of old cloth and go all over the 
surface, wetting every part with linseed oil (raw). 
Let this stand all night. Repeat the second night. 
In a few days go over the whole with common lamp 
oil, wiping it off very much as you would with water 
if washing. Wipe with a soft cloth. 

"Do this work on a sunny morning, leaving doors 
and windows open for several hours. The floor, 
without the lamp-oil finish, will show spots, but when 
finished in this way no spot can be found, except, of 
course, molasses or some sugary mixture which sel- 
dom finds its way to the floor. Spots of this kind 
can be removed with warm suds. 

"My husband laid my kitchen floor two years ago, 
and it looks as good as the day it was done, and no 
hard work either. When we take into consideration 
that we have no back hall, and there is a perpetual 
grind of sand and dirt, it is wonderful how well our 
floor always looks with so little care." 

It is not every John who can handle a carpenter's 
tools so deftly as our New Englander's obliging hus- 
band. But in every neighborhood there are carpen- 



SATURDAY 197 

ters who can work by the directions here laid down. 
We are under obligations to the housewife for telling 
us how to care for the oiled floor after it is laid. 

I think she would do well to avail herself of the in- 
estimable kerosene in cleaning the oiled boards. 
This is the most approved method of treating a floor 
that has been oiled, not varnished. Water that is 
just blood-warm is mixed with a little kerosene — say 
a cupful to a gallon of water. A cloth is wrung out 
in this and the floor is wiped with it — neither 
scrubbed nor swabbed. Change the water fre- 
quently. 

When oiling floors, use a woolen cloth rather than 
a brush. If the oil is thoroughly rubbed in with the 
cloth the result will be much more satisfactory than 
when put on with a brush. The same is true in stain- 
ing floors, and in this case the stain should be rubbed 
into the wood with one cloth and then rubbed off with 
another. 

Grained and varnished imitations of hard wood 
are best cleaned by rubbing well with cloths wrung 
out in borax soap-suds. Afterward, they should be 
rubbed with a flannel barely moistened with kerosene. 
If there is too much kerosene it will dissolve and blur 
the colors. 

If you would prefer a stained to a painted floor, try 
the recipe which follows : 

If there be traces of the old paint or varnish on 
the boards, scrub thoroughly with warm water and 
soda to get every bit of it out of the grain of the wood. 



198 THE HOUSEKEEPEE'S WEEK 

Then go over the floor with borax water. Finally, 
wash with clear cold water and let it dry perfectly. 
"When completely dry, take one gallon of boiled lin- 
seed oil, best quality, and two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of burnt umber. Heat the oil hot in an iron kettle. 
Then stir in the finely powdered umber, and with a 
paint-brush apply it as hot as you can. When dry, 
the floor does not need scrubbing. A mop wrung out 
of warm water will clean it nicely. 

The amount of oil and umber given will supply two 
coats for a floor fourteen to sixteen feet square. For 
one coat take about half the amount. Total cost of 
the two coats, about ninety cents. 

In my country house I have had the use of hard- 
wood floors for thirty-odd years. They are hand- 
somer now than when they were laid. Once a year 
they are put in perfect order by a painter who under- 
stands what we want and how to do it. For the next 
six months they have constant and severe wear, with 
no protection except the rugs that lie in the most ex r 
posed sections of the rooms. They are never washed, 
nor is a drop of kerosene allowed to touch them. The 
one idea of the housemaid of commerce, when set to 
clean a finely polished hard- wood floor, is to fetch the 
oil-can. If forbidden to do this violence to the shin- 
ing surface, she resorts to the practice I have indi- 
cated in the care of oiled floors. Only, she souses the 
cloth in the pail and dashes the oily liquid over the 
boards with a free and flowing hand. 

Curb her zeal — so far short of being according to 



SATURDAY 199 

knowledge — and your own temper (if possible) . A 
polished hard-wood floor should be dusted and never 
scoured. Do not so much as wipe it with a dampened 
cloth. The dust is removed with a petticoated broom, 
and the corners of the room are investigated with a 
soft dry cloth. If there are foot marks which will 
not yield to the dry cloth, dampen it very slightly 
with cold water, and erase that one spot. Once a 
fortnight, have everything taken out of the room and 
wipe the floor with dusters made of old silk, or fine 
muslin — or best of all — with chamois skins. 

If you can not have the services of a competent 
painter, try one of these formulas for the requisite 
"polish." 

Melt together in a bowl set in hot water half a pint 
of turpentine, two and one-half ounces of powdered 
resin, three-quarters of a pound of beeswax. Do not 
let these ingredients come in contact with fire while 
melting, as they are all inflammable. When melted 
apply to the floors with a soft cloth and polish with 
a brush. 

The second recipe was given to me by the aforesaid 
painter who knows his trade and my wants : 

A good furniture and floor polish is made by mix- 
ing well together two parts of crude linseed oil and 
one of turpentine, adding a tablespoonful of salt to 
the gallon. Apply with soft flannel; rub in faith- 
fully ; throw a cloth over it so as to exclude dust, and 
three hours later polish with clean chamois skin. 

A housewife, who has made trial of the latter for- 



200 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

mula and expresses herself as well pleased therewith 
— contributes this note to her testimonial: 

"Once a week, after all the dusting is finished, I 
wipe my polished stairs and floors with an old cotton 
cloth, on which has been poured a very small quantity 
of floor oil — just enough to moisten the cloth and 
take up the dust. It also helps to restore the gloss, 
which kerosene and some other oils remove or deaden. 
Remember to use as small a quantity as possible, or 
the floor will be oily and sticky; and do the dusting 
first, or it will look just as bad as ever when it is fin- 
ished. One quart of the oil has lasted me nearly two 
years." 

VARNISHED AND WAXED FLOORS 

Good floor varnish, like outside varnish, never 
washes off. Give the floor a couple of coats of good 
varnish, and then wax it and keep it rubbed up with 
an oily rag. A good oil for rubbing it with may be 
made from linseed oil, one pint ; turps, and about one 
and one-half gill of Japan. Mix them all together, 
rub on the floor with a woolen rag and wipe them off 
dry. This makes a fine floor and furniture polish, 
if you don't let the the floor go too far before you 
use it. 

In a good many places where there are varnished 
floors the owners keep them waxed when they begin 
to look shabby. 

Varnished floors are not made to be washed with 
soap and water. 



SATURDAY 201 

Polish, where a bright surface is desired: Half a 
pint of alcohol, half an ounce, each, of resin and shel- 
lac powdered. Mix these with the alcohol, then add 
half a pint of linseed oil. Shake thoroughly before 
using. 

A good floor wax: Melt a scant half-pound of 
beeswax; set in a pan of hot water; add, gradually, 
stirring well, a quart of turpentine, and when mixed, 
a half -cupful of ammonia. Cover the saucepan con- 
taining it closely, and set the outer vessel of hot water 
at the back of the stove to heat for ten minutes. Ap- 
ply warm with a piece of flannel, and polish with a 
rough cloth. 

Paint stains on a floor may be scoured off by soak- 
ing them for a short time in benzine or turpentine, 
and then rubbing them with emery paper or a little 
pulverized pumice stone applied with a damp cloth. 

Clean flannel dipped in paraffin oil will satisfac- 
torily remove marks on polished or' painted wood if 
rubbed on for a few minutes. Wipe with a clean 
cloth wrung from hot water to remove the odor. 

From the care of floors we rise by a natural transi- 
tion — to 

WALLS 

Clean spots on kalsomine with white chalk, blend- 
ing the edges with the surrounding surface by rub- 
bing gently with a clean, dry sponge. Painted walls 
may be washed with lukewarm suds, or cleaned with 
a cloth wrung out in kerosene. For hard-finished 
walls use dry bread as you would upon a papered sur- 



202 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

face, rubbing always in one direction and changing 
the bread frequently. 

TO CLEAN W ALL-PAPER 

Papered walls should be freely rubbed with pieces 
of stale bread, dirty marks receiving special atten- 
tion, and afterward rubbed with a soft cotton duster. 

If an entire room is to be cleaned, or if a whole 
breadth of paper is badly grimed, and you have not 
been far-sighted enough to have laid aside in trunk 
or closet an extra roll to match each room, you may 
clean the room after this fashion : 

Buy five cents' worth of oil of sassafras, five cents' 
worth of glycerin, five cents 7 worth of blue-stone; 
pour on this two quarts of boiling water ; stir in flour, 
then knead like bread. Take a piece the size of a cof- 
fee-cup, rub the paper by down strokes only; after 
each stroke mix or lap the dough before making the 
next. Go on in this way until the piece of dough is 
soiled all through. Then take another piece and pro- 
ceed as before. This is a very valuable recipe. 

But a simpler, and often as efficient cleanser is 
made of buckwheat dough, mixed stiff with hot water, 
without shortening or salt. Knead it until it is luke- 
warm, break into handfuls, and use as in the more 
elaborate recipe. Do the work with patience and 
care, and the result will reward you. If carelessly 
performed, you will have a streaked surface. 

To remove grease from wall-paper: Rub with 



SATURDAY 203 

chalk, and leave it on for a day. Then lay blotting 
paper upon the chalk, and press a warm iron upon it. 
Or, use fuller's earth in the same way. 

Or: Rub the spot over once or twice with a piece 
of flannel dampened with alcohol. Do not have the 
flannel too wet, or it will blister the paper. 

To remove paper from a wall: Since the paperer 
will charge you for the time it takes him to strip the 
walls and make ready for the new covering, it is an 
economical measure to have the surface prepared for 
direct operations before he comes. Have at hand 
plenty of warm, soft water, and several large 
sponges. Sponge a yard or two of the paper until 
it is soaked and blistered. Then strip it from its 
weakened hold. Proceed thus until the wall is bare. 
Wash faithfully with suds of warm water and borax 
soap ; lastly, rinse and wipe dry. Do this a day or 
two before the arrival of the workman who is primed 
with charges at the rate of four dollars per day "for 
time." 

Another way: With a paste brush go over all the 
paper to be removed, with paste, missing not one inch, 
and the paper will come off in one-tenth of the time 
it will with water. The secret lies in the fact that the 
paste keeps the paper damp and loosens it completely. 

Holes in walls can be stopped with plaster of Paris, 
but mix this with vinegar instead of water, or it will 
harden so quickly that it will be difficult to manipu- 
late. 



204 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

WHITEWASH 

Whitewash, while out of vogue in the living-rooms, 
is always in requisition in cellars and outhouses. It 
plays an honorable part in the work of sanitation 
everywhere. I offer a recipe which is in high repute 
under the title of : 

Government whitewash: Slake half a bushel of 
lime with boiling water ; cover the process to keep in 
steam; strain the liquid through a fine sieve or 
strainer, and add to it one peck of salt, previously 
dissolved in warm water; three pounds of ground 
rice, boiled to a thin paste and stirred in while hot ; 
half a pound of Spanish whiting, and one of glue, 
previously dissolved by soaking in cold water, and 
then hanging over a slow fire in a small pot hung in 
a larger one, filled with water. Add five gallons of 
hot water to the mixture, stir well, and let it stand a 
few days covered from the dirt. It should be ap- 
plied hot, for which purpose it can be kept in a kettle 
or portable furnace. 

A pint of this wash mixture, if properly applied, 
will cover one square yard. Coloring matter may be 
added as desired. For cream color add yellow ochre ; 
for fawn, add, proportionately, four pounds of umber 
to one pound of Indian red and one pound of common 
lampblack ; for common stone color, add, proportion- 
ately, four pounds of raw umber to two pounds of 
lampblack. 

The name is not an empty boast. The whitewash, 



SATURDAY 205 

thus compounded, is in general use upon Government 
buildings. 

The painted walls of a bath-room should be washed 
with a sponge dipped in common baking soda — then 
sponged again in clear warm water. The painted 
walls of a kitchen are harder to wash satisfactorily, 
but first use the baking or bicarbonate of soda, after- 
ward sponging with soap and water. Soda cleanses 
white paint or enamel most satisfactorily. 

BURLAPS 

As a wall-covering burlap is growing into favor, 
particularly for hall and the walls of staircases. It 
is objected to by many people on account of the ex- 
pense. They do not, however, take this advantage 
into consideration: it may be tinted or re-colored 
without removing from the walls, either a dull or a 
glazed finish being easily put on, making it quite as 
good as new. The first cost of burlap exceeds that of 
paper of the same general effect, but its wearing 
qualities make it less expensive in the end. 

All the care it requires is brushing every few days 
to rid the threads of dust and "blacks." If of good 
quality it holds the color a long time and may be re- 
newed indefinitely as I have remarked. 

TILES 

In bath-room and hall tiles have superseded lino- 
leum in a majority of modern houses of the better 
class, and in many apartments suitable for tenants 



206 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

of moderate means. They are pretty, easily kept 
clean and durable. 

If they become spotted wash them over with lemon- 
juice and leave for fifteen minutes, then rub them up 
with a soft cloth. It is much better never to wash 
tiles, but simply rub them over with a damp cloth 
and then with skim milk or milk and water. If, 
however, they are unglazed and very dirty, dip a 
damp flannel in very fine clean sand and clean them 
with this, using as little water as possible and then 
polish with milk as before. 

Tiles in which real fireplaces are set, are liable to 
suffer from smoke and soot. Clean them with flannel 
wrung out in kerosene, taking the time for the task 
when the hearth and chimney are cold. Wash, then, 
with milk and wipe with a soft linen. 

GILDING 

Gilding on chandeliers and curtain-rods will show 
the effect of dust, dampness and the presence of flies, 
after a few months. Do not make the mistake of 
treating them as you would brass or ornaments or 
utensils. 

Fly marks and general griminess may be removed 
from gilding by dipping a small piece of cotton wool 
in gin, and with it rubbing the soiled parts gently. 
The cotton wool should be squeezed before it is ap- 
plied to the gilding, for this must not be made really 
wet, and any damp on it should be dried as soon as 
the marks have been removed. 



SATURDAY 207 

Cover grease spots on wood or stone with flour, 
starch or powdered chalk, which will absorb the 
grease. Cold water thrown on grease as soon as it 
is spilled will harden it; the greater part may then 
be scraped off. 

'Hot water which has been poured over tea leaves, 
allowed to stand half an hour and then strained is 
excellent for use in cleaning varnished paint. 



CHAPTER XVI 

Saturday (Continued)] 

WINDOWS AND FURNITURE 
WINDOWS AND MIRRORS 

Choose a cloudy day for washing windows, or if 
the sun shine, do not wet the windows while the rays 
fall on them. Some housewives insist that they 
"want to see the dirt if it is there," and after hours 
spent in polishing, wonder that the glass is streaked. 
The reason is plain. The sun dries the moisture un- 
equally before the cloth can take it up. 

Add ammonia — a tablespoonful to the gallon — and 
twice as much kerosene, to lukewarm water. Stir 
well and dip a soft linen or old cotton cloth, or a soft 
sponge, into the mixture. With it wash each pane 
separately, drying with another cloth and paying 
particular attention to the corners. Before 
leaving the pane, polish with a wad of news- 
paper, rubbed between the hands until all stiff- 
ness is taken out of it. Proceed in this way 
until the whole window is cleaned. As will be 
seen at once, you must clean the upper part 
of the window first, or the process will be interfered 
with by drippings from above. As a preliminary 

208 



SATURDAY 209 

step, in this as in other cleanings, the loose dust must 
be wiped off before the panes are wet. Go over the 
glass with a bit of old silk, if you have it, or with a 
cheese-cloth duster. 

Diamond panes in lattice windows: The modern 
villa is almost sure to have a few windows thus filled. 
Sometimes they are of colored, sometimes of ground 
glass. They are more troublesome to get clean and 
to keep clean than plate-glass, because it is a " fin- 
ical" job. 

Stir a little kerosene into tepid water. Rub pieces 
of newspaper soft, and soak in this ; squeeze each al- 
most dry and clean the "diamonds." Wipe at once 
with old linen. With other newspaper, rubbed be- 
tween the hands and not wet, polish the glass. 

Professional window washers do not wash them at 
all. After rubbing off the dust and grime, they cover 
the glass with a thin paste of whiting and household 
ammonia, leaving it on for an hour or more, then 
polishing with old newspapers. Printer's ink has 
something to do with the cleansing qualities of the 
paper. 

Another way: Clean Windows with a flannel 
dipped in paraffin and polish with a clean duster. It 
imparts a fine polish. 

To remove paint from glass:. A woolen cloth 
dipped in household ammonia will do it almost in- 
stantly with a little brisk rubbing. If the paint be 
hard and dry — swab with a sponge dipped in alcohol 
and turpentine until it cracks and scales off. 



210 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

To keep windo ws free from frost : Eor this form- 
ula I am indebted to a shop-keeper who has made 
trial of it when the frost would otherwise have 
dimmed his show windows into the similitude of 
ground glass. 

"Bore a small hole — say one-half inch — in the 
framework directly below, and another directly above 
the plate glass ; if a large or a wide window, two holes 
would be expedient both top and bottom. It can be 
seen that these holes give free circulation, making 
the temperature of the glass more nearly equal in- 
side and out. At the same time it does not change 
the temperature of the store or room to any appre- 
ciable degree. If this is properly done, the show 
windows will be perfectly clear. 

"Should the above be impracticable for any rea- 
son, the following is good: Alcohol rubbed on the 
glass at frequent intervals serves a double purpose 
by keeping away frost and keeping windows clean. 
It may be diluted with water, if the operator so de- 
sires. 

"For * steam' or windows blurred with dampness, 
place a cigar box of lime immediately under the glass 
and it will absorb the dampness." 

If glycerin be diluted with water and rubbed on 
the glass, the frost will not settle upon it. 

Mirrors: For taking finger marks from looking- 
glasses, put a few drops of ammonia on a moist rag 
and rub the blurs with it. Mirrors which are fly- 



SATURDAY 211 

specked should be washed with cold water and then 
polished with a chamois dipped in alcohol. 

To polish a dim mirror: Mirrors kept in rooms to 
which light and air are seldom admitted, contract a 
film which is not easily taken off with soap and water. 
It is a mistake to suppose that it goes deeper than 
the surface of the glass, although the usual methods 
of cleansing do not brighten the latter. Keep for 
this purpose a piece of sponge, a cloth and a silk 
handkerchief, all entirely free from dirt, as the least 
grit will scratch the fine surface of the glass. First, 
sponge it with a little spirits of wine, or gin and 
water, to clean off all spots; then dust over it pow- 
dered blue tied in muslin, rub it lightly and quickly 
with the cloth, and finish by rubbing with the silk 
handkerchief. Be careful not to rub the edges of 
the frame. 

A home-made re-silver for a mirror: Dampness, 
excessive heat, much moving and jostling sometimes 
injure the amalgam which makes the value of a mir- 
ror. If you are within reach of a professional 
framer, gilder and mirror-renewer (the crafts are 
frequently combined in one man) and the glass be 
large, your wisest plan is to send it to him. Small 
glasses may be re-backed at home by one who is deft 
of hand, but it is a delicate piece of business. 

Pour upon a sheet of tinfoil about three drams of 
quicksilver to the square foot of foil. Eub smartly 
with a piece of buckskin until the foil becomes bril- 



212 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

liant. Lay the glass upon a flat table, face down- 
ward ; place the foil upon the damaged portion of the 
glass; lay a sheet of paper over the foil and place 
upon it a block of wood or a piece of marble with a 
perfectly flat surface; put upon it sufficient weight 
to press it down tightly ; let it remain in this position 
a few hours. The foil will adhere to the glass. 

TO CLEAN POLISHED FURNITURE 

An upholsterer, in a moment of confidence, let me 
into his secret of cleaning a piano which had gath- 
ered a purplish mist that obscured the polish in many 
places and defied the usual methods of dusting and 
rubbing. It looked slight but it was so obstinate that 
I called in professional advice. The man was as hon- 
est as he was skilful, and I was a good customer. He 
asked for a bowl of lukewarm water and white soap, 
a sponge and a chamois skin and a soft linen towel. 
Then he let me see him work. He mixed a very little 
soap — a mere dash — with the water, wrung out the 
sponge in it and washed a space about a foot square 
on the defaced case. This he wiped quickly with the 
chamois skin wrung out hard in the same water. 
Finally, he polished it dry with the soft linen, and 
went on with the next twelve inches. 

' ' A trick of the trade 1 " he explained. ' ' Generally, 
it is done within closed doors. Yery simple, you see, 
but it must be well done — and quickly." 

That was thirty years ago. I have cleaned pianos 
and other highly polished furniture in that way and 



SATURDAY 213 

in no other way ever since. The annoying purplish 
film will collect upon the face of new furniture. The 
absence of this is one of the hall-marks of the genuine 
antique. No matter how excellent the imitation, the 
appearance of the faint mauve veil condemns it for 
the connoisseur. 

Smears, spots and superficial scratches may be ef- 
fectively treated with a piece of old flannel wrung out 
nearly dry in kerosene. 

White spots on furniture, left by hot water, or hot 
dishes, or sharp acids, are one of the common blem- 
ishes of polished and oiled woods. 

Try, first, wood alcohol, rubbing it in well. Should 
a whitish mark remain, wet a bit of flannel with a 
bit of camphorated oil — just such as you would use 
upon your baby's sore throat — and rub the spot faith- 
fully with it until it is absorbed. Then cover the 
spots with olive oil, leaving it on all night. In the 
morning rub the oil well in. This will remove 
scratches and slight indentations. Use asbestos mats 
in future under hot dishes and plates. You may buy 
them with washable covers, more or less ornamental. 

An equal mixture of turpentine and linseed oil 
will remove white marks on furniture caused by 
water. 

Home-made furniture polish: (1) Take a table- 
spoonful of sweet oil, the same of turpentine, a gill 
of vinegar and the white of one egg. Place in a bot- 
tle and shake until thoroughly blended, which will be 
in about five minutes. Apply in the usual manner. 



214 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

(2) For shiny "polishing" wood furniture, add a 
few drops of sweet oil to shellac varnish on ball and 
rub over a small space at a time till it "knacks" and 
shines. A little experience will show you. 

(3) For "wax finish" dissolve thinly shaved par- 
affin in rather hot turpentine and polish. 

(4) If you want varnish to "stay" smooth, apply 
it very thin (thin down with wood alcohol or with 
turpentine) . Then put the article in a closet, if pos- 
sible, or in a warm room without draft, as the more 
slowly the varnish dries the longer it will stay smooth. 
Then rub down with fine sand or emery paper until 
the surface is perfectly smooth. Apply another thin 
coat. Dry slowly again. Apply a third coat in the 
same way. This is a little more trouble, but thus 
you can get almost a piano finish. The best varnish 
for furniture is thinned "marine" varnish — or use 
bleached shellac varnish, in wood alcohol or grain al- 
cohol. 

The quartette of "helps" just set down may be 
depended upon as trustworthy, since I have them 
from an eminent chemist who has been a valiant and 
true co-worker with me for years in what I have 
been permitted to do for American households. I 
can not pass his contributions over to others without 
a grateful word. 

Waxed tables: Get a quarter of a pound of bees- 
wax (the unbleached will do) and have ready a piece 
of carpet a quarter of a yard square, lined with a 
piece of cloth and padded. Hold the wax before a 



SATURDAY 215 

fire, and as it melts coat the cloth well with it, and 
while yet warm begin to rub the table briskly. Rub 
for a quarter of an hour. 

Dining and hall tables were rubbed by the hour 
with this compound in the very lang syne. One of 
my earliest recollections is of being lulled into a de- 
licious morning doze, while the sky was still pink 
with the sunrise, by the steady rub! rub! rub! of 
the waxed cloth upon oaken floors and mahogany ta- 
bles downstairs. The wax did much, but in the opin- 
ion of the Virginia housemother, "elbow-grease" did 
more. 

Clean hard wood with a flannel wet in turpentine 
and rub afterward lightly with boiled linseed-oil. 
Take off spots with fine sand mixed in oil. Apply it 
with a leather and rub with clean leather afterward 
to bring back the polish. 

So says one who uses solid woods, and no veneer. 
Instead of sand I should recommend the use of a 
very fine emery cloth for spots that will not readily 
yield to the oil. 

OIL PAINTINGS AND GILT FRAMES 

Again I say, that if the article that needs cleaning 
be very valuable, it is better not to try to renovate it 
at home. I have seen really handsome oil portraits 
irretrievably injured by scrubbing at the hands of a 
dirt-hating housemaid. Never brush the painting 
with a stiff broom or whisk. Each application leaves 
a tiny scratch, and habitual use of . the brush will 



216 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

roughen the surface, destroy the varnish, and dull 
the colors. 

Oil paintings may be cleaned by rubbing with a 
cut raw potato. Rub gently with a circular move- 
ment, and sponge off the dirt with tepid water. Dry 
with a very soft cloth, or better still, a silk handker- 
chief. This method is good for all oil paintings, but 
care must be taken not to wet the back of the canvas. 

Unless you have had some experience in varnish- 
ing do not undertake this part of the restoration 
yourself. Let each movement be exceedingly gentle. 
If the painting be unequivocably soiled and black- 
ened superficially with smoke and dust, content your- 
self with wiping it off with the damp cloth. The cut 
potato will bring away more dirt, and if used cau- 
tiously, can do no harm. 

If the canvas be not grievously begrimed, wipe it 
off with a clean, soft cloth wet with weak suds, drying 
it at once. Then dampen the cloth in suds to which 
has been added a little kerosene. This process will 
get off the dust and grime. If the painting be 
valuable,, do not meddle further with it. Send it to 
a restorer of paintings and have it put in good order. 

Like caution must be exercised in treating gilded 
frames that have lost luster and are scaling off in 
spots. There are patent gilding fluids highly praised 
by the makers and venders. I am assured by do- 
mestic furniture-tinkers that battered and rusty 
gildings may be made to look passable by one or all 
of the following applications : 



SATURDAY 217 

(1) To clean or brighten gilt frames boil four or 
five onions; add sufficient sulphur to give a yellow 
color. Strain. Wash with the liquid when cold. 

(2) A little gold paint to touch up the worn 
patches, and then a washing with a paste made of the 
whites of three eggs beaten up with one ounce of bak- 
ing soda. 

(3) Buy from a paint dealer ten cents' worth of 
dry bronze powder and a like amount of banana oil. 
Mix, as you need it, to the consistency of cream. Do 
not mix more than you need, as it dries up when left 
standing. It is much cheaper and better than the 
gilt mixed with benzine bought in bottles. 

The amateur gilder should try this, and another 
home-made preparation, upon a bit of wood before 
applying it to the frame, and learn from experience 
the right degree of coloring and consistency. 

(4) If the frame be soiled, wipe with a soft cloth 
wet with strong onion tea. Should this fail, try a 
flannel wrung out in kerosene. If the spot be dark 
and deep, have a gilder cover it with gold leaf. 

Here is a borrowed suggestion as to making the 
nails from which pictures are suspended "fast in a 
sure place." 

Often in putting up heavy pictures that are hung 
from a screw in the wall rather than from the picture 
molding, the greatest difficulty is experienced in get- 
ting the screw to fasten securely in the plaster. This 
is a simple remedy. 

The hole made by the screw is enlarged and the 



218 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

edges of the plaster are thoroughly moistened with 
water. Then the space is filled with plaster of Paris 
and the screw pressed into the soft plaster. When 
the plaster becomes hardened the screw will be found 
to hold very firmly. 

LEATHER-COVERED FURNITURE 

When but slightly soiled by daily wear, the contact 
of weary heads upon the backs, and of childish fingers 
on arms and seats, your library furniture may be 
cleansed without injury by a simple process, and 
without calling in professional aid. 

Wring out a flannel cloth in neat's-foot oil. You 
may buy it from any harness-maker. Rub the 
leather well with this, throw a sheet over it to ex- 
clude dust and leave it thus for several hours to let 
the oil sink into the leather. Wipe and polish with 
chamois skin. 

The formulae which succeed this are for badly- 
rubbed and faded leather. 

(1) Turpentine and beeswax melted to the consist- 
ency of thick cream make a fine polish for leather up- 
holstered furniture. 

(2) To restore the leather covers of chairs to their 
original luster, wet the leather first with a little hot 
milk. Then, after melting beeswax in hot water, 
add to it enough turpentine to give it the consistency 
of a thin cream. Put this mixture on the leather 
covers and polish them with a soft cloth. 

(3) To clean and polish the leather coverings of 



SATURDAY! 219 

chairs, etc., mix together equal parts of vinegar and 
linseed-oil, apply very sparingly with a piece of flan- 
nel and polish with a soft cloth. The same treatment 
is excellent for French polished furniture, but it 
must be remembered that the vinegar and oil mixture 
is to be applied sparingly and that "elbow grease" is 
to be used generously. 

(4) Leather-covered chairs may be cleaned by mix- 
ing together half a pound, each, of French chalk and 
fuller's earth, two ounces of powdered starch and 
one ounce of yellow ochre. Wet with boiling water 
until a thin paste is made and add a tablespoonf ul of 
sweet oil. "When it is cold spread on the leather and 
let it remain until perfectly dry. Then brush it off, 
removing every particle of the mixture, and polish 
the leather with melted wax and turpentine, using 
four ounces of wax to a gill of turpentine. The 
leather may be darkened, if so desired, by adding a 
little oil to the wax. 

(5) Carefully dust the leather, then wash with 
warm water, being particular to remove all soiled 
spots and dirt. 

Wipe dry and then wipe over with a black cloth 
dipped into beaten white of egg mixed with its bulk 
of warm water. 

(6) Flaxseed water is good for cleaning leather 
upholstered furniture. Pour half a cupful of boil- 
ing water over two tablespoonfuls of flaxseed and 
bring to the boiling point. Strain, and when cool 
apply with a cloth to the leather. 



220 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

MATTRESSES, DOWN DUVETS, ETC. 

Not one housewife in fifty is alive to the necessity 
of watching over the well-being of the mattresses 
which have superseded the unsanitary, clumsy, and 
uncomfortable feather beds of our Dutch and Eng- 
lish forebears. Necessity — if one would keep the 
mattress in good looks and prolong its natural period 
of usefulness. I take it for granted that your mat- 
tress is in two sections. The object of making it in 
this form is two-fold. The wear is equally distrib- 
uted, and the mattress is more easily handled by one 
pair of arms — and that pair a woman's. Turn it 
over and around daily, and be on the lookout for rips 
and breaks. "Watch for the working loose of tufts; 
— nothing else so tends to get a mattress out of shape 
and order as letting this go unheeded. If it is per- 
manently neglected, the mattress must soon be made 
over. 

Beat the mattress lightly with a furniture paddle 
once a week, and with a pointed brush get the dust 
and fluff out of the tufts. 

A housewife who looks well to the ways of her 
bedroom and slights no other part of a large house, 
advises her not very strong sister to sew with a stout 
thread at regular intervals loops of wide tape, dou- 
bled, to the bindings of the seams. 

She represents that they help with the daily turn- 
ing, and add to the lasting qualities as well. Pulling 
at the sides of a mattress to get a firm hold may re- 



SATURDAY 221 

suit in strained ticking and in binding dragged away 
from the seams. It is not a steady pull that hurts, 
but the false strain caused by taking hold of a surface 
which doesn't yield a hand-hold. 

If the mattress be much soiled and is yet too sound 
without and within for you to think of going to the 
expense of having it made over, clean it at home. 

On a clear, hot day scrub the soiled parts with a 
stiff brush and hot soap-suds and borax. Scour fast 
and hard ; then go over it with a dry brush and pow- 
dered borax, rubbing it in well. Leave the mattress 
to dry in the sun. When quite dry, brush off the 
powder. 

If spotted during illness by medicine, food or blood, 
make a stiff paste of corn-starch and glycerin and 
cover the stains with it. Apply a paste of fuller's 
earth to grease spots. Leave both kinds of paste on 
for twenty-four hours; brush out the powder; wash 
the soiled places with borax soap and renew the paste. 

CLEANING FEATHER PILLOWS 

A German Hausfrau commends this way of han- 
dling feather cushions or pillows: 

"Sew together two sheets of light material. Put 
into this bag the contents of one pillow, or enough to 
be easily handled in a wash-tub or machine. Have 
good, warm soap-suds; then put in your bagged 
feathers. Rub and shake as you would any piece of 
soiled goods. Wring out first in clear hot water, 
t\en in cold; lastly, wring out as dry as possible. 



222 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Stretch your clothes-line back and forth about eight 
inches apart, forming a bridge, where the sun and 
wind strike freely. Lay your feather bag over the 
line, and during the day keep turning and shaking 
now and then. If not dry the first day, take into the 
house over night and repeat next day. When almost 
dry beat lightly. When dry the feathers will puff up 
and fill the bag. In the meantime have your pillow 
cases washed, and the feathers are now ready to go 
back into them, sweet and' clean." 

A capable New England woman contributes what 
appears at the first reading, strenuous treatment : 

"Feather pillows may be freshened and the feath- 
ers be made light by placing them out of doors in a 
clean spot during a hard rain. Let them be thor- 
oughly wet and then hang in a warm place to dry. 
Spots on the pillow cover may be removed with a 
paste of water and fuller's earth. Another way to 
clean the feathers is to place them in a cheese-cloth 
bag and wash them in warm, soapy water, followed 
by several rinsings in clear water." 

The best renovator of feathers of which I Have any 
personal knowledge is the sober, old-fashioned 
method of sunning them. Turn them out of the tick 
upon a clean sheet spread on the dry grass. If you 
have not access to turf, the tin roof of a house is the 
next best thing. Do this on a still, hot day, so that 
the feathers will not fly about. Stir them up well, 
and lay over them a square of light netting. Visit 
the feathers hourly while the sunshine lasts, and 



SATURDAY 223 

shake and turn them faithfully. The sun and air 
will do the rest. Take the feathers in before the dew 
falls, bringing the edges of sheet and netting to- 
gether into a bag. If you have a vacant room or attic 
where they can be spread out at night, the good work 
will go on all night. A second day's sunning will 
complete it, if these directions be obeyed. The feath- 
ers will be odorless and fluffy. 

A musty or rancid odor in a feather pillow is in- 
tolerably disagreeable, besides being excessively un- 
wholesome. Before you decide to throw the offend- 
ing member into the garbage-cart, or upon the 
manure heap, try laying it upon the damp ground all 
day long for a week, turning it hourly. The sweet, 
warm, damp earth is the best of disinfectants. 

To wash down duvets and comfortables: It is my 
privilege to lay before my readers several well-au- 
thenticated ways of washing the duvets without 
which no bedroom may be considered well-furnished 
in our luxurious age. 

(1) To clean a comforter that is not badly soiled, 
select a hot, windy day, put up a strong clothes-line 
and pin the comforter on single, with clothes-pins 
about five inches apart. Prop it up well and then, 
without further ceremony, turn the hose on it. The 
water, forcing through the cotton, will carry with it 
every bit of dust and dirt. "When the comforter is 
dry, it will be as fluffy and clean as when first made. 
Do not wring or squeeze. It is the wringing that 
mats the cotton and makes it hard. iWhen mine are 



224 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

soiled around the edges, I take a soft brush, warm 
water and soap and scrub the edges before giving 
the shower-bath. Down puffs and pillows may be 
cleaned in the same way. 

(2) Make a suds of any good soap and plunge the 
down quilt into it fearlessly. It will look wretched 
and will probably need plenty of rubbing and several 
waters, after which it must be hung in the air — not 
in the sun if the colors are delicate — for several days. 
It should, of course, be brought in at night and it 
will need much shaking and loosening of the down, 
which will settle in the corners, but in the end, if 
carefully done, it will look just like new. 

(3) Down quilts and small feather or down pil- 
lows which have become soiled can be washed at home 
with very little trouble or expense. First, choose a 
good day, for the drying is half the battle, and you 
need plenty of sunshine and a gentle wind. Use 
lukewarm water and one of the many pure soaps that 
are in the market just now and avoid a wash-board. 
It will not be of any help and it will certainly pull 
your quilt or pillow out of shape. Rub thoroughly 
with the soap, squeezing and patting with your hands 
as you might fine woolen underwear. Rinse in two 
or three clear waters and hang up to dry in the sun- 
light. A dash of salt in the water will keep the colors 
from fading. 

THE FEATHER DUSTER 

This implement is only tolerable when new and 
downy. After it has been worn down to the stems 



SATURDAY 225 

and points of the feathers, it does more harm than 
it ever did good in its plumiest days. It is always 
superficial and pretentious. 

! A cloth, with or without a handle, is always prefer- 
able to a brush, be the latter ever so soft and fluffy. 
The feather duster is the darling of the housemaid 
whose own the furniture is not. It is one of her 
mistress' pet aversions, offering, as it does, an indef- 
inite series of illustrations of the truth of the old saw, 
"What goes up must come down." The dust dis- 
lodged by a jaunty flick of the gay feathers is as sure 
to settle again, and more thickly than at first, as 
sparks to fly upward and snow to fall. The best 
duster is a soft cloth, which retains what it wipes up, 
and can be washed again and again. 

Since Phyllis, "neat-handed" or foul, is a fixture 
in the home and is stanch in allegiance to the dust- 
dispenser, and Abigail is wedded to her ways, and 
the politic mistress will not make a stand upon non- 
essentials, no word of mine will do away with the 
tawdry implement. Then — keep it clean! It takes 
to its heart the invisible germs of disease and the 
just- visible eggs of moths and fleas. Then it is hung 
in a dark closet, and the pests breed abundantly. 
[Wash it semi-occasionally in alcohol and camphor, 
and hang it up in the sun and wind to recover curl 
and stiffness. 

"While in the bedroom, we Will bestow a few min- 
utes upon the care of the brass bedstead, which has 
become so popular. 



226 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

THE BRASS BEDSTEAD 

So few of us cling to the wooden bedstead that the 
hints dropped with regard to the proper care of the 
ancient and ponderous article in our chapters upon 
Household Pests may suffice. The brass, the enam- 
eled, or the painted iron bedstead is one of the most 
judicious of the hundreds of inventions the nine- 
teenth and twentieth centuries have made on the sev- 
enteenth and eighteenth. 

If it be pure brass, it requires no more care than a 
fender, candlestick or fire-dog of the same material. 
Dust daily, rubbing off any blurs with a soft old silk 
handkerchief, flannel or chamois skin. When it 
needs a regular burnishing use old flannel cloths wet 
with kerosene and rubbed upon the pomade sold for 
this purpose. 

Brass beds, chandeliers and lacquered goods may be 
improved by putting a little sewing-machine oil on a 
soft rag and going over the bed or fixtures. The oil 
will remove fly specks and leave a luster. It does not 
harm the lacquer. Never use such things as onions, 
lemons, benzine, turpentine, gritty soap, acids or lye, 
which will remove the lacquer, more or less, pro- 
ducing a coat of verdigris if the articles be not 
cleaned every day or two after the lacquer is re- 
moved. 

I add cheerfully to what has gone before, the sane 
observations of a sister housemother: 

"If metal beds are chosen with an eye to keeping 



SATURDAYS 227 

bright, and then given just a little care, there is no 
necessity for dullness and tarnish. Experts say that 
brass ought not to tarnish if it is properly treated in 
the first place, and the brass trimmings to white beds 
are the first places usually that show wear. Be care- 
ful in getting your bed to see if the trimmings (or 
the bed itself, if it is all brass) are carefully finished. 
If you do not know the signs yourself, ask some one 
who does ; it may cost a little more than you thought, 
but it will be less in the long run. Enameling can 
be done (redone, that is) at home with very little 
trouble. Enamel paints cost so little that there is no 
excuse for letting a, white iron bed get shabby, even 
though frequent handlings may have scarred the 
enamel here and there. Once in every few weeks an 
enameled bed should be gone over with a soapy rag ; 
it is surprising how much dirt will come off and how 
fresh the enamel will look after cleaning." 

The last injunction for which I can make room 
before dismissing the brass bedstead may seem over- 
fastidious to the busy woman who has but one maid, 
yet who would fain believe that her tasteful furniture 
is well kept : 

"Never touch the brass without having a cloth be- 
tween your hands and the part of the bed that you 
have hold of, as the perspiration will tarnish it. 
Never hang anything in the line of clothing over it, 
as some people do. By taking these precautions you 
may keep a brass bed for years, by dusting all parts 
of the bed once or twice a week." 



CHAPTER XVII 

SATUEDAY (Continued) 

VARIOUS HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS 
THE BATH-ROOM 

A stationary wash-stand in a sleeping apartmenf 
is now generally recognized as a menace to health. 
All manner of ingenious traps, warranted to let 
everything down and not even the lightest of gases 
up, were introduced to quiet the qualms of people 
who were "up" in germ-literature. "When scientists 
and the growing death-rate in luxurious mansions 
demonstrated the active superiority of deadly sewer- 
gas to plumbing precautions, standing wash-stands 
in houses of the rich were ripped out, and each bed- 
chamber was provided with a private bath-room. 

Unfortunately a mighty majority of our readers — 
respectable, and making up the bone, sinew and 
brains of our population — can not afford to live in 
mansions and allot to each member of the family a 
suite of rooms. To the dwellers in city tents, other- 
wise "genteel" flats, I sound one sharp, clear note of 
warning. Dark living rooms are a menace to health, 
always and everywhere. Bath-rooms which are 
lighted and ventilated by casements opening into 
sleeping apartments (and they may be counted by 

228 



SATURDAY 229 

the hundreds in our large cities) should be con- 
demned and abolished by the Board of Health. No 
matter how attractive the apartment may be in other 
respects, decline to take it. Air and fumigate as 
you will, it becomes a tank of sewer-gas, all the more 
deadly when nearly, if not quite odorless. 

A "bad smell" is comparatively harmless. Like 
that pink of chivalry, the rattlesnake, it gives fair 
warning of approach and peril. 

I have in sad memory such a mad mistake made by 
the architect of a handsome house owned by a friend 
of mine, twenty years ago. The bath-room attached 
to the nursery had a hinged window in the division 
wall. The two little daughters of the house slept in 
the nursery, and on cool nights the nursery was ven- 
tilated by means of this casement. 

Both children suffered continually from malaria, 
although the neighborhood was healthful. One never 
recovered from the "mysterious visitation." 

You may well ask where were the doctor's eyes 
that he did not denounce the nuisance when called 
in to the hapless innocents. I might answer that 
they were keeping company with the architect 's com- 
mon sense and common humanity, and the maternal 
instinct which should have taken the alarm at the 
first sight of the quarters in which her children were 
to sleep and play. 

Fresh air, hot water, and borax are our best weap- 
ons against the insidious foe. 

There should be plenty of fresh air in your bath- 



230 THE HOUSEKEEPEB'S WEEK 

room. Unless the weather is so cold that there is 
danger of freezing the pipes, leave the window open, 
day and night. Even upon intensely cold days let a 
sluice of germ-destroying air rush through the room 
several times a day. Once in twenty-four hours at 
all seasons, flush the pipes leading from bath-tub and 
bowls with scalding water, choosing the time when 
it is at the hottest and letting it run for ten minutes. 
As soon as it is too warm for you to bear your hand 
in it without shrinking, put a handful of borax in 
the tub and in each bowl and turn on a full head of 
hot water. 

Next to kerosene, borax is the housewife's best ally 
in cleansing. It is also antiseptic and medicinal. I 
keep three grades of it upon a shelf in my bath-room : 
a large tin can of pulverized borax for cleaning por- 
celain linings and nickel fittings, and for the "flush- 
ing" I have spoken of; a smaller can of boracic acid 
(in powder) for sores, fever-blisters and corns; 
lastly, a dainty can of perfumed boracic talcum for 
chapped hands, etc. 

I could not support housewifely existence without 
my borax. 

Scald the pipes often with a strong solution of 
chloride of lime, dashed liberally with red pepper. 
Loathsome things are bred in the pipes from effete 
matter lodged there. When I say "scald," I mean 
that you should flush the drains, including the supply 
and waste pipes, with boiling water for ten minutes 
at a time, until your end is gained. Then keep the 



SATURDAY, 231 

pipes clean by similar means. Three times a week, 
when the water is hottest, let it run for ten minutes 
in all the pipes. 

TO CLEAN BATH-TUB, BOWL, ETC. 

A plumber says that stains on porcelain tubs, 
wash-stands and sinks are caused by allowing the 
surface to be injured. When new, porcelain is as 
smooth as a piece of window glass, but if rubbed 
with sand soaps, its surface becomes like a piece of 
ground glass from which no cleansing agent can take 
the stain. He recommends common household am- 
monia for cleaning. 

In cleaning bath-tubs, wash-bowls and sinks, when 
the dirt collects around the sides, a little kerosene 
does the work twice as quickly as any kind of scour- 
ene. 

Pour the oil into an old dish; take a white soft 
cloth, dip in the oil and smear all over the tub. The 
stains come off at once. Then wash over thoroughly 
with warm suds. It works like a miracle. Bo the 
same with the wash-stand and water-closet. If the 
bath-room has tiled sides the oil takes all stains off. 

To clean an enameled bath take a heaped table- 
spoonful of kitchen salt, moisten it with turpentine 
and with it scour the bath; then rub with a clean 
cloth. Before beginning operations take care that 
the bath is perfectly dry. 

For marks on enameled tub: Rub with whiting 
and lemon- juice applied with a stiff brush. Let the 



232 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

paste dry upon the enamel. After an hour scrub it 
off with a flannel wet with kerosene. 

Five cents ' worth of oxalic acid to a pint of water, 
kept on hand, is very useful to drop on a rag and rub 
on the dirty marks that the kerosene will not remove. 
The same applied with a rag and a stick will remove 
bad stains in closets and the inner edges of the marble 
wash-stands. 

To clean marble: Use no soap. A mixture of 
lemon-juice and whiting, spread upon marble, left to 
dry for some hours, then washed off with pure water, 
will whiten it. Vinegar may be used if you can not 
get the lemon. 

Fine table salt rubbed in marble will remove a 
stain unless the latter be of too long standing. 

For iron stains on marble, wet the marks with oil 
of vitriol, let it remain fifteen or twenty minutes, 
then wash off and rub dry with a soft cloth. 

To bleach discolored marble: Make a paste of 
whiting and lemon-juice, and cover the marble with 
it, leaving it on all day and night. Wash off with 
pure water. Never use soap in cleaning marble. 
Repeat ; leave on again for twenty-four hours, wash 
as before, and when dry sponge with peroxide of hy- 
drogen. 

TO REMOVE RUST FROM NICKEL-PLATING 

Cover the rust spots with mutton tallow. Let this 
stand for a few days, then rub with finely powdered 



SATURDAY 233 

rottenstone. Wash off with strong ammonia water 
and then clear water. 

TO CLEAN SPONGES 

When very foul wash them in diluted tartaric acid, 
rinsing them afterward in water ; it will make them 
very soft and white. 

POLISH FOR FAUCETS, BATH-ROOM TRIMMINGS, SILVER- 
WARE, ETC 

Take two common candles and grate them fine; 
add one pound of rottenstone powdered and three 
pints of benzine. Shake well before using. A few 
drops of lemon-grass oil will deodorize it. Apply it 
by rubbing on with a rag and wipe dry with a clean 
rag. 

To keep faucets bright: Polish as bright and 
smooth as possible, then varnish with good spar var- 
nish. You can wipe them off with a moist cloth, 
which process should leave them bright. 

Iron rust on marble: Make a paste of wood ashes 
and kerosene and rub it well into the rust. Leave it 
on for a few hours before scouring it with dry ashes 
(sifted fine) and a flannel cloth. This will remove 
rust from almost any surface. If you can not get 
wood ashes, use whiting. 

The escape pipe: A can of lye and the garden hose 
will cleanse any drain pipe, no matter what the ob- 
structions may be. 



234 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

BATH-ROOM SOAPS 

Keep soaps meant for cleaning the paint, sink and 
other appurtenances of the bath-room distinctly 
apart from toilet soap. For the former have none 
but that which is of good quality and old. 

The older the better. You know that soap was 
among the preserved domestic commodities found in 
Pompeii. Hard as stone, but lathering freely when 
wet ! In humble imitation of your notable f oremoth- 
ers, buy soap by the box six months in advance of 
using it, cut it into squares and spread them upon 
the attic floor to ripen. It is mellowed by age, losing 
caustic properties and giving off by evaporation, the 
volatile and useless elements of turpentine. More- 
over, in hardening, it lends itself to economic princi- 
ples. Bridget- Thekla-Dinah would do violence to 
tradition and established usage, if she did not let 
the square of soap lie in the bottom of the dish-pan 
or wash-tub while she is rubbing the clothes or sous- 
ing, swabbing and "dreening" the breakfast, lunch- 
eon and dinner "things." When in draining off the 
dish-water, she finds a dab of saponaceous jelly in 
the bottom of the vessel, she dumps it in the sink. 
Green — that is, new — soap is an extravagance the 
thrifty carefully avoid. If for no other reason, the 
woman who does her own work should eschew it be- 
cause it eats into her own hands — making them sore, 
coarse and red. Old soap is bland. 

Save all the scraps of soap from kitchen and bath- 



SATURDAYi 235 

room and wash-basins in bedrooms, in a tin can kept 
for them. When nearly full, add enough borax to 
make a jelly-like substance, pouring boiling water 
over it. 

Unless the bits are very minute, shave them fine 
with a sharp knife. They jell more easily. If they 
remain hard, set the tin in boiling water for half 
an hour. Next, strain and squeeze the warm jelly 
into an earthenware crock through cheese-cloth. 
Cover it to keep out the dust and set upon the bath- 
room shelf along with the borax cans. 

The shelf in my bath-room is of glass and easily 
kept clean. The towel roller is of the same material, 
never rusting or mildewing what is hung upon it. 

The saponaceous jelly gives forth a goodly smell, 
softens and whitens the hands ; washes mattings and 
scrubs carpets, and is beyond praise in cleaning bath- 
room and kitchen utensils, particularly nickel or sil- 
ver. Now that porcelain is so common in kitchen 
and bath-room, the housewife should learn the sim- 
plest method of keeping it free from discoloration 
and stains, or for getting rid of these blemishes 
when they appear. As it is the custom of nearly all 
of us to take bric-a-brac that needs cleansing into the 
bath-room for convenience's sake, some directions 
for the task are submitted under this head. 

MARBLE STATUETTES 

Turn on hot and cold water in tub or basin so as to 
have a lukewarm bath for the image. Set it in this, 



236 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

and, with a soft brush wash it carefully, cleaning out 
carvings and corners. Dash water freely over it 
when clean, and set in the air, but not where the sun 
will strike it, to dry. Do not touch it with a cloth. 
The brush does the heavy work, the shower-bath the 
rest. No soap ! 

PLASTER FIGURES 

Dip in cold starch of moderate consistency ; set in 
the window, but not in the sun, until perfectly dry. 
If you leave them all day it will not harm them. 
Brush the powder off with a soft, dry cloth or a com- 
plexion brush. 

MARBLE SLABS 

Mix two parts of common soda, one part of pumice 
stone and one part of finely powdered salt. Sift the 
mixture through a fine sieve and mix it with water, 
then rub it well over the marble and the stains will 
be removed. Rub the marble with salt and water, 
then wash off and wipe dry. 

ALABASTER 

If alabaster ornaments are merely grimy, washing 
with soap and water will clean them; if, however, 
they are stained, wash them first and then spread 
carefully over them a mixture of whiting and water, 
made into a stiff paste. "Wash this off after a few 
hours. 



SATURDAY, 237. 

MOTHER-OF-PEARL 

Mother-of-pearl may be cleaned easily by washing 
it with whiting and cold water. Use neither soap 
nor soda. 

GLASS GLOBES 

Wash them with soap and water to which a little 
salts of lemon has been added. The great difficulty 
of getting the ground portion of the globe to look 
white is that grease, settling in the roughness, is very 
hard to remove by soap and water alone, or even by 
the help of soda. After the globes have been care- 
fully washed in the manner recommended, do not dry 
them with a cloth, but, after allowing the water to 
run on them for a while, let them drain dry. 

GLASS BOTTLES 

Glass bottles: To render stained bottles beauti- 
fully clean and bright, put in salt and pour in vine- 
gar ; stand a few hours, then shake. 

CANDLESTICKS 

To clean candlesticks whether tin or enameled, fill 
them with boiling water to clean them. Do not allow 
the water to stand any time, but pour it off and then 
thoroughly dry the candlestick with a cloth. In this 
manner grease and dirt may be removed without 
damage to the color or substance of the candlestick. 



238 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

TO CLEAN A SEWING-MACHINE 

Put the machine close to the register, the radiator, 
or the stove, and throw a blanket over it to keep in 
the heat. Do this that the caked oil about it may 
melt. Then oil it thoroughly with paraffin. Work 
it quickly for a few minutes, wipe off all the paraffin 
and dirt, treat it to a little more paraffin, wipe it 
again and after the application of a very little of the 
ordinary lubricating oil it will be ready for use. 

THE PIANO 

lA] piano not receiving much usage should be kept 
open at least an hour each day, excepting on rainy 
days, when it should be closed when not in use. Do 
not expose to dampness or intense heat or cold, or 
to sudden changes of temperature, as all are injuri- 
ous to a piano, and rusting of the strings and other 
metal parts, sticking of keys, rattling of the action, 
becoming out of tune, breaking off of varnish will 
be the result. Place the instrument against the inner 
wall, if possible, away from a hot stove, open fire or 
register. Pianos should be tuned at least three times 
a year by a competent tuner. 

One of the best-known agents for cleaning and re- 
storing the color of the piano keys is alcohol. 
Dampen a soft cloth with alcohol and wipe off the 
keys, rubbing with the grain. Dry with a soft linen 
or flannel cloth. If piano keys are exposed to the 
sunlight occasionally they will keep their color much 
better. 



SATURDAY 239 

If the keys are very yellow, and the alcohol does 
not whiten them, wet strips of white Canton flannel 
with oxalic acid and lay upon them. Take care that 
the flannel is not so wet as to drip upon the wood of 
the case. It is well to protect it with a piece of oil- 
cloth adjusted below the keyboard. 

BOOK-SHELVES 

At least twice a year clean your library thoroughly 
— oftener if you can make time for the task. Take 
every book from your cases, and dust them first in 
the librarian's way, which is by striking one with 
another lightly, so that the dust flies out ; then dust 
them with a cloth. 

Scrub the shelves on both sides and in front with 
turpentine mixed with hot water, and when dry, paint 
them with cedar oil- It will keep the book-weevil 
away and impart an agreeable odor to the room. 

THE KITCHEN SINK 

The sink can not be made sightly by any device. It 
is unmistakably and irretrievably ugly. It is, nev- 
ertheless, the criterion of the housewife's or the 
cook's " management." 

"Show me the sink, and I will describe your cook," 
is a homely old saying. 

If it be littered with tea-leaves and coffee-grounds ; 
if it be whisk-clean, save for a greasy gloss on bottom 
and sides, while in the far corner the blackened whisk 
conceals a disgusting deposit of refuse and coagu- 



240 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

lated fats ; — you need not inquire verbally as to the 
manner of that mistress' housewifery, or that cook's 
fidelity to the duties of her calling. 

An excellent detersive for cleansing and sweeten- 
ing a kitchen sink is washing soda. Dissolve a cou- 
ple of handfuls in hot water, and when boiling hot, 
pour down the drain. 

Pour chlorides down pipes, or, perhaps better still, 
caustic soda, which cuts the accumulated grease. 

Scald the sink every other day, flushing the pipe 
with the hot water for ten minutes at a time. Once 
a week add to this a strong solution of chloride of 
lime. 

Keep a sieve hanging above the sink and use it 
when anything that contains sediment is poured out. 
The grating fixed in the bottom of the sink is too 
coarse to keep back the substances which clog the 
pipes. The worst of these is, of course, grease, in- 
visible to the careless eye when hot, but afterwards 
working out the troublesome fruits of neglect. It 
coagulates upon the sides of the drain, and if not 
"cut," becomes as hard and as impervious to water 
as wax. Mne-tenths of the disastrous stoppages in 
the pipes that flood the kitchen floor with all manner 
of uncleanness, and involve the expenses of the 
plumber and his as costly assistant (why must a 
plumber invariably bring along a helper when one 
man could do all the work?), at least nine-tenths, I 
say, of the mischief wrought by obstruction and 
flooding are the direct results of a collection of grease 



SATURDAY 241 

that should never have been thrown into the sink at 
all, or if there, should not have been suffered to stif- 
fen into a mass. 

In consideration of this truth, the reiteration of 
the injunction to flush the pipes regularly with caus- 
tic alkalis is none too strong. My favorite bath- 
room ally, borax, is a useful thing to have in a 
kitchen. Add a little to the water when boiling out 
enameled saucepans, and it will help to clean them. 
If added to the water in which dish-cloths are washed, 
it will help to keep them a nice color ; and if a hand- 
ful be thrown into the sink every night, directly over 
the grating and left there until morning, it will tend 
to dissuade water-bugs from creeping through the 
waste-pipe, and sweeten the first dash of water turned 
out of the faucet next day. 

By the can of borax should stand the bottle of 
household ammonia. Both are cheap. The com- 
bined cost of the two would not equal in a year, al- 
though used daily, what a plumber and his other man 
would charge for three days' work — "and time." 

Clean grease or rust from plain iron or galvanized 
iron sinks with kerosene and wash with boiling hot 
soap-suds. 

THE RANGE 

If the coal or gas range should have rusted during 
your summering, or you find that the one, in the 
house or flat you have just taken, is red with oxides, 
scrub it thoroughly with a strong solution of washing 
soda, using an old whisk-broom. Then heat and dry 



242 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

well. While your stove is still warm, take a clean 
flannel rag, put some olive oil on it (it takes very 
little) give the range or stove a good rubbing all 
over ; then dissolve two teaspoonf uls of baking soda 
in half a cup of water, and with a clean, soft rag 
apply this to the nickelplate, being careful not to 
get it on the stove itself. Rub dry with another 
clean, soft cloth. 

To the coal range give a good coating of stove 
blacking moistened with olive oil, then plenty of elbow 
grease and warm rags. If the nickel parts can be 
unscrewed, do this before you begin to wash, as they 
clean more easily when separated from the stove. It 
is not necessary to repeat very often, if it is done 
thoroughly once. It keeps your stove from getting 
rusty. 

If, during the incumbency of your predecessor, the 
range or stove has been so culpably misused that it 
is incrusted with a hard, black substance, unmistak- 
ably oleaginous, try washing it with suds made of 
soft water and borax soap, scrubbing with a stiff 
brush and scraping with a flat stick. When the crust 
has yielded to this treatment, rub sweet-oil into the 
surface of the stove, leave it on for twenty-four hours, 
wipe with a soft cloth and polish as you would any 
dull stove. 

HOME-MADE STOVE-POLISHES 

The number of patented polishes transcends the 
reckoning of the evicted demon who boasted of his 



SATURDAY 243 

legion. All are warranted to do their work to per- 
fection, and a few do it fairly well. I append two 
formulae for the manufacture of domestic polishes, 
neither of which can injure the range. 

(1) A quart of soot from the chimney or pipe lead- 
ing from a bituminous coal fire ; one teaspoonf ul of 
white sugar in a coffee-cup; two tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water poured on the sugar. Fill the cup with 
vinegar. Wet the soot gradually with the water, as 
you would wet flour for drawn butter or other thick- 
ening. Mix, first with the sugar, which helps to bind 
the mixture, and when you have a paste, add the 
vinegar, also gradually, beating smooth as it goes in. 

There is much in knowing how to put ingredients 
together. 

(2) "Mix aluminum powder and banana oil. 
With a paint-brush paint the whole range excepting 
the top with this mixture. It wears splendidly, does 
not peel and beats blacking 'all to pieces.' You 
must not mix it too thick. Any painter will tell you 
exactly how. Ten cents' worth of each is sufficient 
for a range." 

Whatever polish you may use, apply it to a cold 
stove, having previously brushed off the dust, and 
with a cloth slightly dampened, wiped off the loose 
dirt. A fine gloss is obtained by adding a teaspoon- 
ful of alum to the ordinary black lead. 

To keep stovepipes from rusting when not in use: 
Clean out the soot, rub them well with sweet-oil and 
wrap in newspaper until needed. Then the oil may 



244 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

be rubbed off and a new coat of blacking may be ap- 
plied. The papers must be bound in place with stout 
cotton cords wound around the pipes so closely as to 
exclude the air. 

To prevent the choking of stovepipes with soot: 
Get from a stove-maker a quantity of zinc shavings, 
or pieces of zinc too small to be useful in his trade. 
Burn a handful in the range when the fire is hottest. 
Smoky chimneys are often cured by this simple ex- 
pedient. 

When the chimney takes fire throw on a handful 
of sulphur, or, lacking that, several handfuls of salt. 

TO CLEAN ZINC 

It is so much the fashion now to cover the tops of 
kitchen tables with zinc that the owner, or care-taker 
of them should know how to clean and to polish them. 

Scrub the zinc with hot soap-suds until you have 
a clean, dull surface. Make a paste of sifted coal 
ashes and kerosene ; cover the zinc with it ; let it dry 
and polish with old flannel. 

A neater method is to dip a piece of flannel in par- 
affin and with it rub the zinc well, which should then 
be washed with hot water and soap to remove the 
smell of the oil, and polished with a dry cloth. 

A KITCHEN ASH-SIFTER 

A piece of rather fine wire netting cut to fit the 
ash tray under a range will save all sifting of cinders, 
as the fine dust alone will drop through it. The net- 



SATURDAY* 245 

ting should be cut slightly; larger than the tray, so 
that an edge can be turned up all round it to keep it 
in place. 

FLAT-IRONS 

Irons that have been put away sticky should be 
well scraped with a thin knife, then rubbed with a 
rough cloth, moistened in kerosene. 

Keep the irons in a dry place when they are in use 
weekly. If you shut up the house for a month or 
more, grease them well before putting them away. 

GREASY PANS AND KETTLES 

Pour a few drops of ammonia into every greasy 
roasting pan or greasy cooking dish after half filling 
with warm water. A bottle of ammonia should al- 
ways be kept near the sink for such uses. Never 
allow the pans to stand and dry, for it doubles the 
labor of washing, but pour in water and use ammonia, 
and the work is half done. 

GRANITE WARE 

A correspondent, to whom I am glad to render 
acknowledgment, thus enlightens us on the subject 
of stained and blackened granite ware : 

"By a happy chance I learned that Javelle water 
(directions for making on every can of chloride of 
lime) cleans granite ware perfectly and entirely 
without effort by simply putting it into the stained 
dish and letting it stay until the work is done. The 
Javelle water may be used over and over again, as 



246 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

long as the strength lasts. It should be kept tightly 
covered in a glass or earthenware vessel when not in 
use, and will last longer if kept covered so far as pos- 
sible when used in cleaning pans, etc. I know 
whereof I speak, for this cleaned off a sixteenth of 
an inch solid crust of burnt jam (when all scrapings, 
scourings, etc., had utterly failed) leaving the dish 
as clean as when new. The only drawback is that it 
takes off the gloss ; but since the stains go with it, it 
can be excused. 

TO CLEAN COPPER UTENSILS 

A kettle so badly corroded that it is blackish green 
within and without, may be redeemed without much 
trouble by this means : 

Heat a pint of vinegar mixed with a large handful 
of salt to a boil in the kettle. With a flannel rag 
scour the kettle inside and out with the vinegar while 
liquor and kettle are hot. It will remove verdigris 
and burnish the kettle. This done, scald the vessel 
with soda and water. 

To clean one that is not so given over to the deadly 
verdigris — one of the surest poisons known in house- 
wifery science — rub it with a cut lemon dipped in 
powdered bath-brick. When all stains are removed 
wash it in warm, soapy water ; then dry and polish it 
with powdered bath-brick and a soft cloth. Pow- 
dered bath-brick, mixed to a paste with oil, may be 
used instead of the lemon. 



SATURDAY 247 

TREATMENT FOR TINS AND IRONWARE 

Rub the new iron kettle first with, lard, heat it 
until it smokes, and wash in hot soap-suds. It is 
sometimes necessary to make a second treatment. 

New tinware treated in the same way will last much 
longer, as it prevents rust. However, tinware should 
not be heated quite as hot as iron. 

An iron kettle that discolors potatoes, etc., which 
are cooked in it may be set right thus : 

Boil potato peelings in the iron kettle, slowly, 
for a few hours — five or six hours will do — then clean 
perfectly and grease it thoroughly. 

The potato peelings will come out quite black, but 
they will gather unto themselves and bear away with 
them the noxious elements that caused the trouble. 

To remove rust from a kettle: Put into it as much 
hay as it will hold ; fill it with water and boil it many 
hours ; if the kettle is not entirely fit for use repeat 
the process. 

Scale or crust can be prevented in a tea-kettle by 
keeping an egg shell or an oyster shell in the kettle. 

PEWTER AND BRITANNIA 

Some of us have heirlooms of these materials. 
Unless taken care of regularly they change to a dull 
lead color with bilious shadings — an unlovely sight. 
Coat with paste of powdered rottenstone and oil, leav- 
ing it on for some hours. Rub it off with soft flannel 



248 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

and polish with whiting and household ammonia, 
finally with chamois skin. 

TINWARE 

It will never rust if it be always wiped perfectly 
dry before it is set away after it is washed. The 
moisture left in the seams and on the sides causes it 
to rust. Wash in hot suds, rinse in hot water and 
wipe well. If you would "shine it up" a bit — com- 
mon soda applied with a moistened newspaper and 
rubbed with a dry piece will make it look like new. 

To mend leaky tinware: Sprinkle a pinch of fine 
resin around the hole, on which lay a lump of solder 
the size of a bean ; hold it over a lighted lamp for half 
a minute and the solder will melt and spread. Set 
near the fire, or in the sun, for a few minutes ; then 
plunge into cold water to insure hardness. 

New tins should be filled with cold water, set on 
the range and boiled there for some hours. Then let 
the water get cold in the saucepan. This will remove 
the "tinny" taste for all time. 

USEFUL ODDS AND ENDS OF KITCHEN LORE 

A cement which will resist the action of hot or cold 
water, and which is useful for mending earthenware 
and stone jars, stopping cracks and holes in iron 
and tin kettles and pans, is made by mixing litharge 
and glycerin to the consistency of thick cream or 
putty. The article mended must not be used until 
the cement has had time to dry. Leave in the sunny 



SATURDAY 249 

window of a dry room for at least a week before you 
put anything into it. 

Never fill a lamp quite full, or when it is brought 
into a warm room the expansion of the oil will cause 
it to overflow. 

On the other hand, a kerosene lamp that is burned 
night after night, and never filled more than half- 
way to the top, sometimes becomes charged with gas 
generated by the flame, and explodes. 

Ivory knife-handles which have become yellow 
from misuse may be whitened by rubbing them gently 
with fine sandpaper and then polishing with a clean: 
piece of chamois skin. 

Should this fail to restore the color, wash with 
peroxide of hydrogen and lay in the sun for some 
hours. Ivory should never be laid or dipped in hot 
water. Wash ivory-handled knives in a pitcher, im- 
mersing the blades and wiping off the handles. 

Wooden bread-hoards should be scrubbed with 
sand or salt instead of soap, in order to be kept in 
good condition. Sun, or set them before the fire 
until they are entirely dry. A musty kneading-board 
will impart a taste to the dough that is not agreeable 
to the educated senses. 

Iron saucepans should be kept clean on the outside 
as well as inside. To prevent the smoke from stick- 
ing, rub the outside of a new saucepan with fat be- 
fore placing it on the stove. "Wash with hot water 
and soda. 

Tin and granite iron tea-pots if unused for some 



250 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

time, will give an odd flavor to the tea when next 
used. This may be prevented by placing a lump of 
sugar in the tea-pot before putting it away. 

The "odd flavor" generally arises from the slow 
evaporation of the moisture clinging to the inside of 
the pot, and which can not escape from the close ves- 
sel. Dry it thoroughly and set, open, near the fire 
before the sugar goes in. 

Never lay meat directly on the ice. Place it on a 
dish or wrap it in paper before putting it in the re- 
frigerator. Use for the purpose "butcher's paper." 
To wrap meat in newspaper is to poison it slightly. 
Moreover the practise is unclean. The best plan is 
to lay the raw meat on a clean dish and put a wire 
cover over it. 

Wash the bread box out weekly and air it before 
placing bread in it again. To air it means that it 
should be really in the outer air, and if possible in 
the hot sun. Miniature forests of mold flourish 
apace in staling bread. Do not carry plantations 
over from one baking to another. 

If your kitchen has a tiled floor, a little linseed- 
oil rubbed on the tiles, followed by polishing, brings 
up the colors wonderfully. 

If the new refrigerator smell of paint, burn a pan 
of charcoal in it by day, and at night set pans of cold 
water on the shelves. The lead and oils will settle 
in the water. The volatile particles cause the odor. 
When precipitated into the water, they can not rise 
again into the air. If your newly painted floor 



SATURDAY 251 

"smell to heaven" conquer the nuisance by setting 
large pails of water in the room overnight. In a 
couple of days the smell will be gone. 

Dry salt applied with flannel will clean enameled 
tubs which have been stained. Wash well afterward. 

This applies to stationary tubs in the laundry, but 
the process is as effectual if the porcelain or enamel 
sink be stained. 

If, in cleaning the range, some of the polish gets 
upon the nickel fittings and dries there, flannel wet 
with ammonia should remove the polish. If not, try 
vinegar mixed with kerosene. 

A dish of unslaked lime placed in a damp cupboard 
will tend to dry it. The lime should be renewed 
every day or two, as it loses its power. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

sattjkday (Concluded) 

SILVEK, CHINA AND GLASS 
THE CARE OF SILVER 

Were I to have the entire charge of my silver, I 
should have no polishing days and use no plate pow- 
der or pomades. As it is, I try to impress upon my 
servants the truth of the old saying that an ounce of 
prevention is worth a pound of cure — a ton, in fact. 
But when the standpoint of mistress and maid in 
household economics is the same, the millennium will 
have begun. As a young housekeeper, with an in- 
different waitress, I never allowed her to wash china, 
glass and silver. I did not have my old fender and 
andirons then, and if I had owned them, they would 
have been an empty show, since we had not the luxury 
of an open wood fire. I did, however, have a pair 
of old brass — real brass — candlesticks and a gener- 
ous stock of silver. For this I had, as I have said, 
no cleaning day. The secret of avoiding this peni- 
tential period was simple. Every time it was used 
I washed it in hot water, to which a little ammonia 
was added, rinsed it in scalding water, wiped it 
quickly with a soft linen towel, then rubbed it briskly 
with a piece of soft flannel. Silver, treated faith- 

252 



SATURDAY 253 

fully and regularly after this fashion, needs no plate 
powder, and will hold its own in weight and form 
ten times as long as if subjected to the weekly at- 
trition of gritty powders and corrosive acids. If 
our grandmothers had known and practised this 
plan, they would not have bequeathed to us such 
paper-thin teaspoons and loving-cups and tankards, 
from which patterns and inscriptions have been 
effaced by much rubbing. 

The readers of the ever-pleasant "Rollo Books" 
may recall his recipe for keeping his desk in order 
"for ever and ever." It was briefly, never to let it 
get out of order. My plan for keeping silver clean, 
without the weekly polish, is after the same sort. 
Never let it get dull. Make a strong suds of very hot 
water and silicon, or other good polishing powder, 
adding a tablespoonful of household ammonia. 
Wash the silver used at each meal in this, rinse in 
water as hot as you can bear to touch, and wipe, 
quickly, each piece as you draw it from the hot water. 
No draining! A rapid rub while the silver is hot, 
with old flannel, completes the work. 

The suds must be strong, the water must be hot — ■ 
not merely warm — the ammonia must be put in last, 
and the wiping must be immediate and brisk. 

The "drainer" should not be so much as named 
among those who wash their own china and silver, 
glass and plated ware. 

Our heirlooms were not worn thin by legitimate 
use. They were outraged weekly by vinegar, whit- 



254 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

ing and. scrubbings. It is not the daily wearing that 
makes linen, cotton and flannel old and ragged, but 
the wash-board and wringer. I have called plate 
powders "gritty." Put a pinch of the finest and 
most velvety of these under the lens of a microscope 
and you will see that it looks like sand. No silver is 
proof against it. 

A cheap and simple way of brightening dull silver 
is to let it lie all night in lopper milk. A brisk wash 
next day in hot water is all that is needed after the 
milk bath. 

To save labor and at the same time to keep the 
household silverware bright without constant polish- 
ing, camphor is valuable. If a lump of it be placed 
on each shelf of the closet or cabinet where the silver 
is kept, a thorough cleansing and polishing is seldom 
necessary. A lump of camphor the size of an egg 
should be kept in the drawer or chest with the small 
silver. 

To prevent tarnish: When your silver is not in 

regular and daily use, and when you would lay it by 

, in the plate-chest or safe for weeks or months, there is 

no reason why you should expect it to tarnish during 

its seclusion. 

Have it perfectly clean when you lay it aside. Do 
not touch it with the naked hand. Perspiration is an 
unholy combination of salts and acids, and no matter 
how dry and clean your fingers may seem to you to be, 
invisible perspiration is always there — and potent! 
Take up spoons and forks and larger pieces of silver- 



SATUEDAYi 255 

ware with a bit of cotton batting, wrap them care- 
fully in tissue paper and pack in a chest or box. Put 
a bit of gum camphor in the bottom of the box, close 
the lid and give yourself no further concern as to 
tarnish. It will keep bright for six months, or for 
six years. I know, for I have followed the plan for 
forty-odd years. 

In Virginia, even before the war, gentlewomen al- 
ways washed up the supper and breakfast things with 
their own hands. Colored servants could not be 
trusted to do it. 

And very wise housewives they were. In the whole 
course of my married life I have had but one maid 
who washed silver and glass in ' ( my way. ' ' She came 
to me as green as her native bogs in June, and was 
trained by myself into one of the best waitresses I 
ever had, or ever expect to have. The soil was vir- 
gin and good. She lived with me eight years. Then 
we went abroad for some years and I lost her. 
When I told her once that she washed my valuables 
to my liking, she answered naively: "You see, mem, 
I knew no better to begin with, and just did as I was 
tached." 

BRASS 

Brasses can not be washed three times a day, nor 
packed down in tissue paper and camphor to keep 
away the corruption of rust — alias verdigris— but 
they may, and they should be, dusted every day with 
a bit of very soft flannel. When you leave home for 



256 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

the summer, envelop them in cotton batting, then in 
tissue paper, tied on tightly to exclude the air. 

To clean brass nothing is more effective than the 
old-fashioned plan of rubbing first with a paste made 
of powdered bath-brick and paraffin, and then with 
dry powdered bath-brick. A mixture of lemon- 
juice and powdered chalk used in the same way is 
also excellent. 

To clean brass ornaments wash them over with 
strong ammonia. The fancy parts should be well 
scrubbed with a brush dipped in the ammonia, 
Einse in clear water, wipe dry and polish with wash 
leather. 

Any article of brass, with the exception of Benares 
ware, may be cleaned in the following way: Wash 
the brass in suds made of equal parts of ammonia 
and water with soap. This will remove all dirt from 
the article, leave it free from grease and give it a 
semi-polish. Then use a good brass polish. If the 
brass looks hopelessly tarnished any good powder 
that is used for cleaning silver or brass, if moistened 
with vinegar and applied vigorously, will remove the 
tarnish and leave a bright surface. 

Black and green brass should be well washed in hot 
soap-suds containing soda, then scoured with paraf- 
fin and whiting before any brass polish is used. 

Sweet-oil and powdered rottenstone vigorously ap- 
plied with a piece of soft flannel will clean brass 
ornaments. 

To clean a brass bird-cage: Clean with a bit of 



SATURDAY 257 

flannel wet with kerosene, then rubbed upon the red 
pomade used for brasses. Leave it on for half an 
hour and polish with a dry, clean flannel or with 
chamois skin. 

Whiting and sweet-oil mixed to a paste and rubbed 
on with a piece of flannel will brighten it. Wipe 
with a soft cloth and polish with chamois skin. 

HOW TO WASH CHINA AND GLASS 

Step the first : sort the "things !" That is the ge- 
neric term, borrowed from the vocabulary of the vul- 
gar. Discard it ! Be specific ! Bring your glass to 
the front; behind it, arrange the silver, great and 
small ; next, mass the china, each after its kind. The 
plates should already be scraped clean of fragments ; 
and cups emptied and rinsed. Have ready two dish- 
pans, towels galore, a soap-shaker and a long-han- 
dled mop. 

Draw over your hands and fasten at the wrist, a 
pair of gloves two sizes too large for you, from which 
you have cut the finger-tips. Pour boiling water 
into each pan, churn the water in that on your left to 
a foaming suds with the shaker. In this lay the 
smaller silver, give it a few sweeps with the mop, fish 
it up, transfer to the other — the rinsing pan. Again, 
take out one piece at a time, with the mop, and wipe 
while still so hot that you could not hold it but for the 
towel protecting the finger-tips. Do all this rapidly, 
laying each article hot, clean and shining, upon a tray 
lined with linen cloth to prevent scratching. The 



258 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

glass comes next. Although the water is no longer 
boiling, roll each glass dexterously in it lest it crack, 
dip and swirl over in the rinsing pan, and wipe 
quickly. Lastly conies the china in due order — 
plates and dishes last. Of course, if you have had 
many at table, the supply of water must be renewed, 
at least in the first pan. Not a trace of grease must 
appear upon the surface of the water. If an oily rim 
be left at high-water mark within the pan, profana- 
tion has been done to artistic rules. For thus is dish- 
washing brought into the realm of the fine arts. It 
is thorough, and far more expeditious than the usual 
sousing, swabbing and "dreening" — to say nothing 
of the polishing which is omitted in eight out of ten 
kitchens. 

A gentlewoman may go through the whole exercise 
of clearing off the table from which four people have 
dined ; washing and wiping the articles used and put- 
ting them away, without spotting her dinner-gown. 

"Will you be tolerant with yet another serap of per- 
sonal experience 1 ? 

I have lovely associations connected with the ear- 
lier years of my housewifely life. My John- used to 
read the paper aloud to me while I washed the dinner 
china and glass. The children went over their les- 
sons to me while I washed the breakfast equipage. 
I had a voluminous bib apron which my husband and 
boys declared to be more becoming than the gown it 
protected. I pinned up my sleeves, and there were 
always my gloves to keep my hands white. When 



SATURDAY 259 

there was something of special interest in the evening 
paper I prolonged operations. Usually, when there 
were just ourselves and the one child who was old 
enough to sit up to dinner, I finished the last dish and 
put away all in the china press in twenty minutes 
after I laid hold of the first spoon. This when we 
had a four-course dinner, exclusive of coffee. 

Bridget-Thekla-Dinah would take one hour to do 
the same and it would not be done one-tenth as well. 
Yet she may be exceptionally tidy. It used to hurt 
me — actually hurt me ! — to see how my fragile treas- 
ures were handled, after we became so well-to-do that 
I could not afford to take care of them myself. 

There is a world of difference between drudgery 
and the practice of a favorite art. That, I take it, 
is the interpretation of the saying, "the labor we de- 
light in physics pain." 

Have you, dear yoke-fellow, ever visited your 
kitchen while your faithful B.-T.-D. — perhaps the 
most satisfactory in most respects of any who have 
ever governed the lower story — is " doing up the 
dishes'?" She is one of the neatest of all created 
cooks, in the main. Her domain is a pleasing study 
in orderliness and judicious arrangement. You are 
proud of it and of her, and she knows it. 

But — she plunges, and souses, and jumbles, and 
swashes her "things" in water in which she can bear 
her hand comfortably. Swabs them with a dish-rag ! 
Then she "dreens" them! "Drains" does not ex- 
press the misdemeanor. She says ' ' dreen ' ' — and she 



260 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S "WEEK 

is right. Cups and saucers, plates and dishes — even 
glass and silver — are drawn leisurely from the cool- 
ing water, which was " comfortable" when the 
''things" went into it, and set up on end, or turned 
upside down that the water may stream, and stray 
— and streak ! at its own will across the smooth sur- 
faces. When all are out, she dries them leisurely, 
and, I will admit, with a clean towel. With two 
towels! the second, warmed at the range, to polish 
them. 

CUT GLASS 

Cut glass is sensitive to sudden changes of temper- 
ature. Do not hold the cut glass bowl that has had 
ice-cream in it under the hot water faucet. Do not 
take a piece of cut glass from a hot room into a cold 
one suddenly. Pieces of ice touching the sides of a 
punch-bowl will sometimes cause it to crack. A block 
or piece of ice should be firmly anchored in the cem 
ter of the bowl. To temper a cut glass dish before 
filling it with ice-cream, punch, etc., pour cold water 
into it, then a piece or two of ice, very small pieces. 
When the dish has been gradually chilled put the ice- 
cream into it. 

When cut-glass oil and vinegar cruets become so 
discolored inside that shot or fine sand will not 
cleanse them, fill the bottle with finely chopped po- 
tato skins. Cork tightly and let the bottle stand for 
three days, when the skins will ferment. Turn out 
and rinse. The bottles will be as bright and clean 
as when new. 



SATURDAY 261 

To clean water bottles mix together half a gill of 
vinegar and a handful of salt. Shake well and let 
the mixture stand in them for half an hour. 

TO CLEAN A GREASY JAR OR AN OIL CRUET 

Ordinary means do not suffice sometimes to get the 
oil out of a jar or bottle in which it has been kept a 
long time. Put a handful of well-sifted wood ashes 
in the jar, fill it with water and set it in a pot of cold 
water. Bring the water in the outer vessel to a boil 
and keep this up for an hour. 

Since you may not be able to get wood ashes, sub- 
stitute a tablespoonful of household ammonia for 
the ashes, fill up with water, screw on the top loosely 
and boil in the same way. "Wash out with strong 
suds and rinse before setting to air in the sunshine. 

LAMP CHIMNEYS 

When you buy the chimneys, put them into a tin 
pail of cold water, set this in a pot of cold water and 
place this last upon the range where it will heat very 
slowly to a gentle boil. Keep this up for an hour — 
never boiling hard — and let it subside and the water 
cool gradually. This process "tempers" glass. 

TO LOOSEN A GLASS STOPPER 

Let fall a few drops of ammonia into the crack 
around the stopper. Or tap the stopper sharply, but 
not too hard with a clothes-pin or piece of wood. 
Or heat the neck of the bottle slightly with hot water 
or over the gas. 



CHAPTER XIX 

EVERY DAY IN THE WEEK 

Good and comfortable housekeeping is brought 
about only by daily attention to many of its details. 
Eternal vigilance is the price of other things than 
liberty, — surely it is the price that must be paid for 
an orderly and well-kept house. A certain round of 
duties must be accomplished every day of the world 
in order to make the work go smoothly, in order to 
give that air of well-being to the place in which one 
abides that means rest for the mind as well as com- 
fort for the body. The giving of this constant, well- 
modulated, daily attention to the affairs of the house 
makes heavy demands upon the self-control of the 
housekeeper. Whether she tends to her own house 
or directs service, the strain upon the energies is 
heavy. To get in everything that should be done and 
yet to retain one's composure and a mind open to 
interests outside of "business," this is the ideal that 
should animate a householdress — and it is a high one. 
For even in a household where the daily tasks are 
performed as they should be, no comfort abides if 
there is constant fussing and fuming, if the mind of 
the housekeeper is submerged by her cares instead of 
floating on top of them. We all know and tremble 

262 



EVERY DAY IN THE WEEK 263 

before the over-anxious air of the over-anxious house- 
keeper. We know afar the vexed and careful look 
she bends over meat, chickens and vegetables in the 
market, determined as she is on screwing out the best 
value for the least money. We shudder as we re- 
member the baleful glance she casts upon the dust in 
the corner forgotten by the heedless maid. The 
woman of the sort referred to keeps house at the 
expense of the happiness of her family. She rates 
housekeeping higher than she rates herself. From 
this awful mistake, we say with all piety, "Good Lord 
deliver us." 

The multifarious details of the daily work can be 
managed with cheerfulness and equanimity. We 
may not have attained that height ourselves but we 
know it can be done. We all remember some happy, 
busy, competent aunt or cousin or friend of the fam- 
ily whose house always shone with the polish of good 
management and whose family rejoiced no less in 
the management than in the good temper accompany- 
ing it. We all have in our minds the memory of 
some excellent housekeeper who was or will be some- 
time deserving of that most delicious epitaph found 
in an old English churchyard, — "She was so pleas- 
ant." 

The list of those duties which should be performed 
daily comes to about the same thing in the estimation 
of most writers on the subject. The order of their 
performance is not always the same and can not be 
laid down as a law because of varying conditions in 



264 THE HOUSEKEEPEB'S WEEK 

the various households concerned. In some families 
the breakfast is late and little or no household work 
can be accomplished before that meal. In others 
where breakfast is earlier the maid can practically 
have the lower part of the house in order before the 
inmates descend to their morning meal. The num- 
ber of people in a family, sometimes the architecture 
of the house, make a difference as to which household 
task may be first disposed of. 

It is a good plan for each housekeeper to make out 
an order of work for every day, also for the special 
tasks of the week, have it type-written and hung in 
the maid's room. Though the array of duties may 
seem to her a little startling at first, she will soon 
recover from the shock. Such a proceeding saves 
her confusion and does away with the endless ex- 
planations from the mistress which follow usually 
the first month after the installation of a domestic. 

The following program is one that the author has 
herself found satisfactory for the every-day care of 
the house: 

1. Care of the Front. This includes sweeping the 
pavements in front of and about the house, and 
sweeping or scrubbing or mopping the porch if there 
be one. 

2. Make the fires, air the living-room, dining-room 
and hall, setting them to rights if necessary. 

3. Prepare the breakfast and set the table. 

4. Clear the table, wash the dishes and kitchen 



EVERY DAY IN THE WEEK 265 

utensils. Put the kitchen, pantry and ice-box in or- 
der. 

5. Make the beds, put the sleeping-rooms in order, 
renovate the bath-room, see to the stairs and balus- 
ters. 

6. If there are any dishes to be prepared for 
luncheon and dinner, prepare them now. 

7. Attend to the particular tasks of the day, as, for 
instance, cleaning silver on Wednesday, general 
down-stairs cleaning on Saturday, etc. 

On days when the work is particularly heavy, the 
mistress of the house should arrange as far as is in 
her power to lighten the usual labors of the maid. 

CARE OF THE FRONT 

In putting this job first the author has given it a 
place not usually awarded to it. Most writers on 
household arrangements put off pavements and 
porches till the middle of the morning. But the truth 
is that this is just one of the places, though one 
should not be weakly yielding, where John and the 
boys are to be considered. Most of the niceties of 
housekeeping John doesn't know anything about and, 
if truth must be told, cares less. But he does notice 
the porch and the walks ; and when he starts out to 
business in the morning and meets Jones or Smith at 
the gate, he likes to have the place looking tidy, 
" ready for inspection" as the military phrase goes. 
So out of deference to John, it pays first to sweep 



266 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

the pavements, clean the front steps and the porch 
if there be one. 

One of the readily discernible signs of a good house- 
keeper is the appearance of the front steps. "By 
her front steps shall you know her." So said the 
lady from Philadelphia where surely the front steps 
are the whitest of any in the world. And it was she 
Avho advised me to use powdered pumice stone in 
cleaning steps of stone or cement. 

CARE OF THE DINING-ROOM 

Whether the floor is carpeted or of polished 
wood it should be brushed each morning and the room 
thoroughly dusted. There is no place about the 
house, except perhaps the kitchen, where absolute 
cleanliness is so desirable as in the dining-room and 
no place where such constant and continuous care is 
demanded. The dining-room table should be daily 
polished with a soft chamois and if once a week, as 
the case may be, it is waxed or a drop of oil is rubbed 
into its bright surface, so much the better, though 
the oil will do little good if it is not administered with 
a plentiful supply of "elbow grease." To keep the 
dining-room table bright and shining is one of the 
pretty points of housekeeping. With old southern 
housekeepers it was almost a passion. To some of 
us, who remember back before the days of the war, 
the most characteristically recollected attitude of the 
old family butler is that in which he stands bent over 



EVERY DAY IN THE "WEEK 267 

the mahogany, chamois in hand, bringing out the 
quality of that lovely wood, 

DAILY CARE OF THE KITCHEN AND PANTRIES 

This requires the orderly disposal of the utensils 
used in cooking, the keeping of table or tables clean, 
the sinks scrubbed and free from grease and the 
kitchen floor in order. A painted or hard-wood floor 
is harder to keep clean than a tiled floor, which is 
cold, however, or one covered with linoleum. One 
must not keep the maid on her knees all the time and 
it is well to select a floor which keeps free from spots 
if mopped up once a day and scrubbed on Saturday. 
A painted floor should never be scrubbed but should 
be wiped up with a cloth. 

Among the minor daily tasks connected with the 
kitchen is the putting away of supplies from grocery 
and market. I know of nothing that adds more to 
the neat appearance of the kitchen than the practise 
of sorting these out and putting them away immedi- 
ately on their arrival, throwing superfluous bags and 
other wrappings into the waste basket which is a 
necessary part of the furniture of every kitchen. 
And while we are dealing with the kitchen, it is worth 
while mentioning a means by which the mistress may 
help to simplify the daily work of that department. 
If she will each morning write out the menu for 
luncheon and dinner and hang it in the kitchen, the 
business of the kitchen will come up correspondingly. 



268 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

I have yet to meet a cook who does not recognize the 
help given by this system. 

THE DAILY CARE OF BEDROOMS 

This should be a small charge upon the maid if 
members of the family do their part toward making 
the house machinery run smoothly. Each member 
of the family should, in the old-fashioned phrase, 
keep her room ' 'picked up," and the time to perform 
that office is largely at night. One's clothes should 
be hung up when taken off and not left lying around 
till morning, both on account of the clothes and the 
appearance of the room. There is nothing more dis- 
couraging than to start the day by opening one's 
eyes on a disorderly room. What is really no task 
at night and takes but a few minutes before going 
to bed, when added to the duties of the morning, 
assumes baleful proportions. If the bedroom is in 
order and the bed-clothing turned back, as it should 
be when one rises, the work of making up the bed 
neatly and of dusting the room will take but a few 
minutes. 

DUSTING 

To keep a house properly and daily dusted requires 
time and unless there is more than one maid em- 
ployed in the family the mistress must share the 
task with the maid. Of course the untrained maid 
loves the feather duster which is an abomination to 



EVERY DAY IN THE WEEK 269 

a cleanly housekeeper. She must be taught to wipe 
softly and fairly with a cloth over the surfaces and 
in the crevices needing attention. White cheese- 
cloth cut in squares and hemmed makes the best 
dust-cloths. The maid should be taught that these 
as well as the broom cloths must be gathered up and 
taken care of when dirty, not thrown into corners. 
And while we are on this subject let it be said that 
the laundress should be instructed that broom-cloths 
and dust-cloths are as much a legitimate part of the 
weekly washing as handkerchiefs and underwear. 
No house can be kept clean without plenty of these 
necessary articles in good condition. 

THE EVERY-DAY CARE OF THE BATH-ROOM 

Every morning the dirty towels should be taken 
off the towel-racks, put to dry if necessary or con- 
signed to the clothes hamper and fresh ones put in 
their places. The wash-bowls, both tub and fix- 
tures, should be wiped clean and dry and the bowl 
of the water-closet rubbed with a long brush indis- 
pensable for that purpose and to be found at every 
good department store. Again as with the bedrooms, 
the special daily care given by maid or mistress to 
a bath-room is no more important than the care that 
should be given by each member of the family. No 
one has a right to leave the bath-room in such a con- 
dition that it shall be in any way unpleasant or of- 
fensive to his successor. 



270 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

THE DAILY CARE OF THE REFRIGERATOR 

This involves its airing, drying and a proper dis- 
position of articles within. It is well to know that 
the coldest place in an ice chest is the lowest shelf 
of the provision chamber. Here one should keep 
meat, bottled milk, drinking water, etc. The only 
place free from odors in an ice-chest is the top shelf 
under the opening through which cold air descends 
from the ice. One can keep butter here or milk in 
pans. Green vegetables of the lighter kind, such as 
lettuce, cucumbers, celery may be kept in the ice 
chamber. Some such system as the one indicated 
should be used in the disposition of the foods to be 
chilled. The greatest care should be taken to allow 
nothing to be overturned in the ice chest, or if such 
a catastrophe occurs, to wipe out immediately the 
soil. The pan under the ice chest, if there be one, 
should be emptied every day. Directions for the 
weekly or bi-weekly cleaning of the ice-chest are 
given in another part of the book. 

THE SINK 

Systematic watchfulness is required to keep the 
sink sweet and clean. The daily care comprises 
washing with hot soap-suds each time after its use 
and rinsing with boiling water. Once a day after 
this process, turn on the faucets and let a good mea- 
sure of cold water fly over the surface and run 
through the pipes. 



EVEBY DAY IN THE WEEK 271 

THE KITCHEN STOVE 

The stove should be brushed off thoroughly every 
day and rubbed with a soft or damp paper. This 
will insure cleanliness between the times of the 
weekly polishing. This polishing, it may be said, 
must be thoroughly done or the pots and pans will 
come off soiled or unsightly. 

WASHING THE DISHES 

It is well to insist with your maid on the right 
order for washing the table ware. First the silver 
with plenty of soap and hot water; then the glass- 
ware well polished after washing with a clean, soft 
towel ; lastly the dishes which should be first scraped 
clean then rinsed off with clear water, then washed 
with soapy water and last of all rinsed and dried. 
The average maid gets rid of the scrapings and or- 
derly arrangement of dishes previous to washing. 
It pays to convince her, if that is possible, that the 
right method saves time and trouble. 

LAYING THE TABLE 

One of the tasks which practice should make per- 
fect, but often does not, is laying the table. A thing 
that is done three times a day, three hundred and six- 
ty-five times in the year should be done skilfully, and 
yet the awkwardly arranged table is not an infre- 
quent occurrence. The following are the conven- 
tionally accepted rules and arrangements. A canton 



272 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

flannel or asbestos cover should be provided to lay 
under the table-cloth as a protection to the table 
when a table-cloth is used. It may be said that the 
asbestos covers, now much in vogue, are valuable 
additions to the housekeeper's store, as they abso- 
lutely protect the table from burns and can, the best 
of them, be rolled up like a flannel cloth. They are 
not, however, to be obtained at every department store 
but are the property of special dealers. 

For breakfast and luncheon the use of table mats 
of various sizes is, at the present time, more general 
than the use of a table-cloth. When the cloth is 
used, as at dinner, it should be laid so that the central 
crease strikes the exact center of the table. Place 
knives and spoons at the right of the plate, having 
the ends of the handles near the edge of the table. 
The sharp edge of the knives should be turned toward 
the plate, and the inside of the bowls of the spoons 
turned up. The forks should be to the left, and in- 
side up. The napkins should be on the plate or at 
the left hand side with the water glasses a little to 
the right and top edge of the plate. At the top of 
the plate in the middle the individual salt-cellar 
should be placed. If the meal in the case is break- 
fast, small butter plates and butter knives may be 
added to the furnishings of the table ; and the service 
for coffee or chocolate or both should be placed be- 
fore the mistress of the house. 

If the meal in question is dinner, the carving-set 
and knife and fork should be placed before the car- 



EVEEY DAY IN THE WEEK 273 

ver. The amount of silver on the table will depend 
upon the number of courses served. 

In case the duties of the house are performed by 
one maid, it is well to dispense at breakfast and 
luncheon with service beyond the proper disposition 
of dishes on the table. This is indeed the English 
fashion and gives a pleasant informality to those 
meals. But service there should be, and of the right 
kind at dinner. 

Serving the 'dinner: The maid should stand 
quietly behind the carver while the meat is being 
carved. She should take each plate from him and 
set it before the person for whom it is intended. She 
should then pass the vegetables and condiments if 
any. The plates should be removed after each 
course, and before the dessert is brought on, every- 
thing except the glasses and the flowers should be 
removed and the cloth should be cleared of crumbs 
by the use of a crumb knife and tray or by the use 
of a fresh napkin. 

Though there are some differences of opinion on 
this point, the generally accepted rule is that the 
maid must go to the left side of the person served 
when the dish is one from which he helps himself, 
thus giving him the free use of his right hand, — to 
the right when it is something that she places on the 
table. For instance she must go to the right with the 
plate served by the carver, to the left with the vege- 
table dish from which the diner helps himself. Some 
authorities, however, insist that everything shall be 



274 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

served from the left except water and other liquids 
that can be poured into a glass. 

In removing dishes the waitress should never pile 
one upon another and should not attempt to take 
more than two plates at a time. Perhaps it is un- 
necessary in this day and age to say that- the silver 
should be placed in the center of the plate, the knife, 
fork and spoon side by side and not at varying and 
dangerous angles. 

The rules given are the elementary ones merely of 
table serving. It takes but a short time for a maid 
to make a conquest of them and rigid adherence to 
them should be insisted upon. There is no one of 
the daily round of tasks that contributes more per- 
haps to the esthetic happiness of the family than that 
of quiet and efficient service at the dinner table. 



CHAPTEE XX 

ANY DAY IN THE WEEK 
MARKETING AND BUYING THE WINTER SUPPLIES 

Marketing may be a matter of any day in the week. 
Certainly it should not be a matter of every day in 
the week as it often is with those housekeepers who 
take no thought for the morrow and are content with 
looking no farther than to-day. For the welfare of 
the house, marketing should be done for several days 
ahead so that cook and mistress may scheme and plan 
for meals without a constant running to the source of 
supplies. The leisure gained outweighs the labor in- 
volved. 

"What sort of a housekeeper is she," asked one 
friend of another concerning the new neighbor who 
had just moved into the house across the way. "She 
is an always-running-to-the-grocery-housekeeper," 
was the reply, an answer which carried its meaning 
without comment. 

THE VALUE OF A WEEKLY MENU 

My own experience has led me to feel that a de- 
cided help to the weekly marketing lies in making 
out a menu a week ahead. One can not always keep 

275 



276 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

strictly to the scheme laid down because one can not 
know exactly what may be left over from meal to 
meal and how this residue may be best employed. 
But, in a general way, one knows; and the plan is 
one which results in a nicely varied table and in a 
simplification of the matter of buying. A friend of 
mine, an excellent housekeeper and one particularly 
worthy of that old-fashioned term of approval, "a 
good provider, ' ' lays in stores for her house but once 
a week and that on Saturday. She has a refrigera- 
tor which holds two hundred and fifty pounds of ice 
and in this she stores her meat and perishable vege- 
tables. "I go through the agony of buying but once 
a week," she said gaily to me. "I do it up 
thoroughly then, make out my menu for the week, 
hang it in the kitchen, and save myself, by so doing, 
a world of trouble and no end of time. " For several 
reasons my friend's method does not commend itself 
to me. I give it only as an instance of that time- 
saving propensity in housekeeping which we of the 
profession should cultivate. 

MEAT AS AN ARTICLE OF DIET 

With most of us, in spite of the vegetarians, the 
most important, the most nourishing and strength- 
giving item on the bill of fare is meat. Meat three 
times a day is generally prejudicial to the health. 
Meat twice a day is once too often for many people. 
Meat once a day is a necessity for most of us. The 
choice of meat is then an important part of market- 



ANY DAY IN THE WEEK 277 

ing and it is the branch of marketing on which most 
women are least well informed. 

Any woman who thinks seriously of her business 
of housekeeping should make herself acquainted with 
the anatomy of the animals from which our meat 
supply comes so that she may realize with some 
thoroughness the purpose for which the different 
parts may be used, the kind of nourishment offered 
by each and the proper culinary treatment to which 
the different parts should be subjected. Often the 
housekeeper's knowledge of this branch is so slight 
that she does not even know how to name or call for 
the different parts of the animal in question. The 
subject of meats is so comprehensive that only a few 
brief notes can be given here for identifying the dif- 
ferent cuts, for choice of the most nourishing parts 
and for distinguishing between meat which is good 
and that which is not. 

Beef: Where the body of the animal has had the 
least exercise will be found the tenderest portions — 
on top of the back, the seven prime ribs, the loin 
or porter-house and the thick sirloin. These cuts are 
best adapted for roasting or broiling. They are the 
most expensive as well as the most tender. Inex- 
perienced and extravagant housekeepers fancy, very 
foolishly, that the palatable meat of the beef begins 
and ends with these. This is not true. Many pieces 
which will do for neither of the purposes mentioned 
are excellent when subjected to the slower processes 
of braizing, stewing and pot-roasting. For people 



278 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

of small means the habitual use of steak is not a de- 
sirable investment. The poorer cuts do not lend 
themselves to broiling and the more expensive cuts 
are, except occasionally, an extravagance. 

Good beef when first cut will be of a purplish un- 
pleasant color or hue, but should quickly turn on ex- 
posure to the air to a bright red. It should be firm 
and fine grained in texture, and the fat should be of 
a pale yellow or light straw color. 

Some of the parts of the fore quarter of a beef are 
the neck, good for mince meat and force meat, and 
sold at an average price of eight cents a pound; the 
chuck, a piece behind the neck including the first five 
ribs which may be used for pot-roasts, cheap steak or 
stewing, selling at about twelve and a half cents a 
pound; the ribs, used chiefly for roasts. There is a 
decided preference in the rib roast. The first and 
second cuts are the best and bring from seventeen 
to thirty cents a pound, the third from fifteen to 
eighteen cents. The brisket is used largely for 
corned meat. The shin is used for soup and sells 
usually at not more than five cents a pound. The 
fore quarter is, as a whole, coarser than the hind 
quarter, and, in consequence, brings a smaller price. 

Of the meat in the hind quarter that of the shin is 
used for soup. As the meat is of better flavor and 
the bone has in it finer marrow than that of the fore 
quarter, the soup resulting is of a more excellent 
character. From the sirloin are cut the choicest 



ANY DAY IN THE WEEK 279 

steaks and roasts. First cuts of the sirloin are not 
so good as those underneath where the tenderloin be- 
gins to appear. Slices from this part bring some- 
times forty cents a pound. When the tenderloin is 
sold separately for a roast, this part is known as the 
fillet. This part is very tender and much in demand. 
It is also very expensive, bringing from sixty cents 
to one dollar a pound. The economical housekeeper 
in buying a fillet will buy the entire loin or section de- 
sired to give the right size, at thirty-five cents a 
pound, have the parts separated and reserve the part 
other than the fillet for steaks and roasts. Hip sir- 
loin is the most desirable part of the rump and may 
be used for steaks and roasts. Housekeepers gen- 
erally should know about the satisfactory cut from 
the rump called the aitch bone. This weighs about 
six pounds and is to be bought at from seven cents to 
twelve cents a pound. There is considerable differ- 
ence in the quality of meat provided by the round. 
The top round furnishes a fair quality of steak at 
from twenty-two to twenty-five cents a pound. The 
flank is good for corned meat and sells at from seven 
to ten cents a pound. In connection with the cheaper 
cuts it may be well to state that many of the cheaper 
steaks may be made palatable by the process called 
"marinating." First, pound the steak lightly, then 
cover it with olive oil and lay it in a cold place for 
several days. The steak, when broiled, is fine. 
Liver should be carefully examined before using to 



280 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

see that it is in a healthy condition. If streaked or 
spotted, it is diseased. 

Mutton and lamb: The nutritious qualities of 
mutton are not so well understood in this country as 
in England which perhaps accounts for the fact that 
it is less frequently used here. Generally speaking 
our cooks know less about preparing it than they 
know about the preparation of beef. Mutton is in 
season the year round. The leg makes the best roast. 
The rib chops are most delicious and are correspond- 
ingly expensive. A mutton chop cooked as one can 
get it in the simplest inn in England, with hashed 
brown potatoes and a good lettuce, makes a luncheon 
good enough for any one. Lamb is mutton up to the 
age of one year. It is an expensive and delicious 
meat. 

Pork: Some one has said that it is well to regu- 
late the use of pork as we do the use of oysters by 
confining it to the months in which the letter "R" 
occurs. Of course this rule does not apply to the use 
of ham and bacon. Crisp bacon is one of the most 
appetizing of breakfast dishes and it is well to have 
it regularly, say once a week, on the breakfast bill of 
fare. But pork chops and pork roasts are very heat- 
ing to the blood and should be used only in autumn 
and winter. Small sausages of a good brand are an 
excellent breakfast or luncheon dish. One must se- 
cure these from a trustworthy butcher. Pork 
should always be thoroughly cooked if danger to 
health be avoided. In fresh pork the fat should be a 



ANY DAY IN THE WEEK 281 

pure white and the lean a fresh pink. A yellow color 
in salted pork is a bad indication. 

Veal: This meat is best in spring and summer. 
The meat should be white and should have a tendency 
to pink. The leg makes the choicest roast and the 
loin an excellent one. The breast is good for stews 
and the neck can be used for the same purpose. A 
cheap roast can be made from the shoulder when 
boned, rolled and stuffed. The " knuckle" is used 
for soups. Its highly gelatinous quality is much 
valued. The combination of the "knuckle" from 
veal and the shin from beef makes the best "stock" 
known to the author. And while we are on the sub- 
ject of soup bones, it is well to say that there is a 
choice here as in most things. A beef bone should 
be one-third fat and bone, and two-thirds meat. And 
its use does not end with the making of soup. The 
meat may be used for a hash or stew or even for 
croquettes. From thirty cents ' worth of shin a good 
housekeeper can get a meat course for three meals 
besides her soup. 

Fish: Now that the price of beef and mutton has 
gone up so considerably it is well to treat with care 
the claims of fish as an element of diet. Pish is not 
so nutritious as other meats because it has less fat, 
but it makes a pleasant and healthful change in the 
bill of fare if the conditions are right. The main 
condition is, that the fish shall be fresh. Fish dete- 
riorates in quality much faster than other meats. 
One therefore should be particularly careful in the 



282 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

selection of fish brought from a distance. Here per- 
sonal inspection should be the rule and not order by 
telephone. The meat should be firm, the gills red, 
the scales bright and shining, and there should be no 
evidence anywhere of discoloration. In general, 
white-fleshed fish is apt to be more digestible than 
dark-fleshed fish. 

The market affords such a variety in fish that a 
more lengthy study than can be given here is neces- 
sary to a proper discrimination. Briefly, haddock, 
cod and bluefish, among the cheaper varieties, may be 
recommended for baking. Haddock is also good for 
frying and is the best of the three mentioned. Hali- 
but and salmon, more expensive varieties, are espe- 
cially good for boiling, as is also the delicious red- 
snapper. 

Each householder must find out for herself con- 
cerning the local varieties to be had and the proper 
ways of cooking these. 

Some indications of good poultry are a soft pliable 
breast bone and smooth flesh. The body should be 
plump and fat but not fatty. Pin feathers indicate 
a young bird. Chickens are esteemed more of a lux- 
ury than a matured fowl but the latter, if properly 
treated, yields a more satisfactory return to the eco- 
nomical housekeeper. 

Fruits and vegetables: These healthful articles 
of diet should be on the table the year round. Hap- 
pily the best of these things come to those who take 
them in the order intended by nature and do not at- 



r ANY DAY IN THE WEEK 283 

tempt to force the season. In our huge city markets, 
the exchange between different parts of the country 
is now so perfected that the securing of exotic and 
hot-house vegetables is easily within the range of 
possibility at all times of the year if one is willing to 
pay the price. Such expenditure usually is only for 
the very rich who do not, in the end, profit as much as 
those who are content to take these things as they 
come. If one has tomatoes in February and straw- 
berries in March, one does not give the home-grown 
product the greeting it deserves. Many an inexperi- 
enced housekeeper wastes her money on far and f or-< 
eign-grown foods when she could furnish her table 
much more comfortably and economically from those 
supplied by the home market. 

ACCORDING TO THE SEASON 

To make oneself acquainted with the orderly pro- 
gression of fruits and vegetables throughout the year, 
make out from experience and statistics a reference 
chart designating the season and its length for each 
article inscribed thereon. Consultation with the 
chart will often define the best possibilities of your 
menu — especially of your winter menu. In spring 
and summer when new potatoes, asparagus, peas, 
beans, tomatoes, cucumbers, corn, follow each other 
in quick succession it is easy enough to know what to 
buy. But the most of us do not think highly enough 
of the good root vegetables which stay with us 
through the cold season, — carrots, parsnips, turnips 



284 THE HOUSEKEEPEK'S WEEK 

and beets. In winter we have also cabbage, celery, 
onions, brussels sprouts, squash and spinach, — a va- 
riety great enough surely with the good canned 
things to be bought so cheaply, and needing only the 
proper cooking to set forth an acceptable table. 

Green vegetables: These should be bought only 
when needed as they are easily spoiled and are dif- 
ficult to take care of. If it is necessary to keep cel- 
ery, asparagus and lettuce a day or two, keep the 
roots in shallow water not more than three-quarters 
of an inch in depth. 

Winter vegetables : These should be well dried be- 
fore storing. Apples need a very cold place in order 
to keep well. As sweet potatoes spoil easily they 
should be bought in small quantities. 

BUYING IN QUANTITY 

In the old-fashioned housekeeping of America be- 
fore flats were invented or apartment houses 
dreamed of, when everybody had a store-room above 
ground and a cool roomy cellar below, it was possible 
to lay in for the winter large stores of things which 
the average householder of to-day finds it impossible 
to keep. The barrels of apples and potatoes which 
used to be the pride of the store-room are now for the 
most of us, alas, things of the past and even the flour 
barrel does not always furnish forth that place as it 
used to do. Indeed, for many of us, the word "store- 
room" is an idle one and a store-closet is all we may 
claim ( "Woe to the house, however, which makes no 



AKY DAY IN THE WEEK 285 

provision outside of the usual marketing for the long 
cold months when fresh vegetables and fruits no lon- 
ger make plain and easy the path of the marketer. 

It is well to have some store of jellies and canned 
fruit and pickles on the shelves, though there are 
many reasons why it is no longer advisable to put up 
the huge quantities of these things that our mothers 
and grandmothers did. The drudgery of putting 
them up is great and the much larger variety in nu- 
tritious foods now on the market makes dependence 
upon such supplies less necessary than formerly. It 
is now possible to buy good canned fruit and jellies 
from the factories though one must know and be sure 
of the brand. Perhaps the best of the reasons for 
not putting up the quantities of fruit that decked our 
mothers' store-rooms lies in the present price of the 
fruit itself. This, which used to be a small item of 
expense, has in the last few years of abnormal growth 
in food values, swelled to an important figure. 

Filling the store-room for winter: If we can not 
expect nowadays to find on the store-room shelves as 
huge a collection of jams, jellies and pickles as used 
to deck them, other things there are with which econ- 
omy and thrift, as well as good living, bids us fill up 
the extra spaces. In the fall when the first supply 
of canned vegetables and fruits, of cereals, of olives, 
of tinned fish and meats comes in, pay a visit to your 
grocer or to some good department store and buy 
with liberality. Twenty per cent, or more can be 
saved by buying your winter stores in quantities. 



286 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Most women have a horror of spending any large sum 
of money at one time on housekeeping. It needs, 
however, only a little study to figure out the gain in 
spending a lump sum at the beginning of the winter 
season instead of dribbling out a larger sum for the 
same output during an appreciable space of time. 

The department store: The department store of 
to-day offers often excellent bargains in groceries. 
The money at their disposal enables them to buy in 
large quantities and consequently, at regular inter- 
vals, to sell at smaller prices than is possible to the 
small dealer. It pays to watch for "sales" when the 
old stock is cleared out, in the interest of the new. 
If one is familiar with the more excellent brands of 
food, one runs small risk of a loss in picking up cer- 
tain standard things in this way. In this branch of 
marketing as in others, it is only the experienced 
buyer who profits. 

Store-closet : The store-closet should be dry, well 
ventilated and cool. Even when the space in this is 
small, as in flats and apartment houses generally, 
it pays to keep on hand a month's supply of certain 
necessary articles. Flour, tea, coffee, chocolate, 
vinegar, oil, spice, flavoring extracts, soda, baking- 
powder, molasses, corn-meal, rice, salt, pepper and 
gelatin — with these things every store-closet should 
be supplied in a sufficient quantity to keep things 
running without frequent replenishing. 

In the store-room closet there should be a corner 
devoted to household necessities of another sort and 



ANY DAY IN THE WEEK 287 

these also should be bought in quantities. Let the 
bottles of ammonia, the packages of washing powder 
and of matches, the cans of stove-polish, the pounds 
of candles, the bottles of bluing, the boxes of starch 
and soap, have the prestige of owning a shelf all to 
themselves from which they may be summoned when 
needed. 

EGGS 

During the winter months eggs rise to a price that 
makes it well worth the housekeeper's while to store 
them. If coated with some substance that excludes 
the air they remain in good condition f 6r a long time. 
One should be careful, however, to cover them with 
nothing which will communicate a bad flavor, as the 
porous shells are very sensitive to this. A friend of 
mine has kept them successfully in small quantities, 
eight or nine dozen, by putting them in a jar of lime 
water, covering and leaving in a cool place, The 
freshness of an egg may be tested by putting it in a 
mild solution of salt water. If it sinks it is fresh. 
If it stays on top it is stale. 

MILK AND BUTTER 

One should visit if possible the dairy from which 
one buys one's milk supply and see with one's own 
eyes whether a perfect state of cleanliness obtains. 
Impure milk is a frequent source of disease and too 
great care can not be taken in choosing the sources 
of one's milk supply. Good milk is a bit yellow in 
color. There is much argument as to the relative 



288 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

value of creamery and country butter. The methods 
employed in the creameries are usually better than 
those employed on farms. Perfect cleanliness is de- 
manded in the creamery. But it frequently happens 
that the material used on a good farm for the making 
of butter is better than that used in the creameries. 
If the method of making the butter corresponds, the 
dairy or farm butter is then better than the creamery 
butter. 

CAUTION ABOUT BUYING CHINA FOR EVERY-DAY USE 

While on the subject of buying for the house, let 
a word be said, inconsequent as it may be, on the sub- 
ject of buying the e very-day china. Let the house- 
keeper indulge her taste as variously as possible in 
making out the sets for her company china closet. 
But in that china which is to be exposed to the daily 
wear and tear, let her choose one pattern and stick 
to it, — a pattern which her dealer in this kind has al- 
ways on hand or can replenish on short notice. Such' 
a course is economical and keeps the table harmoni- 
ously dressed. 



CHAPTER XXI 

SEWING AND MENDING DAY 

A quarter of a century ago sewing occupied a much 
more conspicuous position in the industry of the 
household than it does to-day. In this, as in other 
branches of work, division of labor has done its holy 
and unholy work. While we may deplore the evils 
resulting from the handing over of much of our sew- 
ing to a class, the abuses consequent upon the sweat- 
shop system and other horrors incidental to the 
change noticed, still it is true that the average house- 
holdress is much benefited by the leisure gained 
through the new disposition. Much of the time she 
used to spend over the sewing-machine, or needle in 
hand, can now be devoted to solving other problems 
of the household economy. Even those of us who 
scorn the ready-made gown, — and wholesale scorn of 
this is very silly, — yet buy many articles ready-made 
which we used to toil over in the sewing-room, or 
what was almost as bad, spend weary hours with the 
seamstress in contriving. 

There has been, however, too great a rebound from 
what was often feminine slavery to the needle. The 
average woman of to-day knows less than she should 
of the gentle art of sewing. Even if she does noth- 

289 



290 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

ing toward the construction of gowns or undergar- 
ments, there are still in every house other uses to 
which the needle should be put. No house where the 
income is a moderate one can be properly carried on 
without some attention to the labors of the needle 
and it is a strange thing that usually books devoted 
to household management give little or no space to 
this subject. 

"I loathe the needle and I never touch one," said 
a sprightly young housekeeper to an elegant woman 
of the before-the-war period. "My dear, I pity your 
house, your husband and your children," was the 
reply. "I am no devotee of the needle but a day 
never passes that I don't have to put in a stitch some- 
where — sew on a button, run up a tear or mend a 
slit." The old lady was right. Some sewing is nec- 
essary to the proper care of garments and the articles 
used about a house. 

A regular mending and making-over day is as nec- 
essary for the smooth and agreeable running of a 
house as wash-day or ironing-day. Perhaps it does 
not need to come quite so often as these. Once in 
every two weeks in a small family may be often 
enough to go over clothes and household supplies to 
see where stitches are needed, though a week's time 
will in most families develop a surprising number of 
demands upon the needle. But whether once a week 
or once in two weeks there should be a fixed time for 
attention to this important branch of household econ- 
omy. The laundry every week sends up garments 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 291 

with buttons missing and rents to be repaired. Dress 
skirts have a way of needing new braids or velveteens. 
Towels and table-linen and bed-linen, to say nothing 
of stockings, need to be darned. Often the bags used 
for various household purposes must be replaced. 
Lastly, supplies of bed-linen, table-linen, tea towels, 
'dust-cloths and broom cloths frequently need replen- 
ishing. The new material must be cut and hemmed. 
A regular attention to this department helps much in 
keeping the house in proper order. 

The writer is familiar with one household where 
the regular mending day is regarded by its members 
as the most delightful of the family institutions. 
The day or afternoon rather is kept as sacredly, 
though not so grimly, as the Calvinists kept Sunday. 
A large airy room in the top story of the house is used 
as the sewing-room and is furnished with every ap- 
pliance necessary for furthering the work. On 
Wednesday afternoon, the feminine members of the 
family, five in number, gather there with the per- 
sonal and household mending and sewing. They are 
not at home on that afternoon to any but a few inti- 
mates who are familiar with the ways of the house ; 
and no one is allowed to be present, under penalty of 
a heavy fine, unless equipped with needle, thimble, 
thread and scissors. A small fine is exacted for the 
borrowing of these implements and the money thus 
stored goes to the sum used for adding to the attrac- 
tions of the sewing-room. At five o'clock the maid 
comes up with sandwiches, steaming tea and a tea 



292 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

service to put a finish to the gaieties of the afternoon. 
''I never go to a tea where I have half the fun that 
I always have on our 'making-over and mending 
afternoon,' " said one of the daughters in speaking 
of their Wednesdays, "at home." 

SEWING-ROOM 

If possible there should be a sewing-room' in each 
house, where sewing-machine, the implements neces- 
sary for sewing, the mending basket and the ma- 
terials to be made up are kept. On the one hand it 
is difficult to keep a bedroom or living-room put to 
such use in perfect order ; on the other, the conven- 
ience of a room designed particularly for the purpose 
of sewing is greater than that of one which is a sew- 
ing-room only by chance. In a sewing-room by in- 
tention there should be as much light as possible; 
and it should be provided with a locker for materials, 
a big basket or two for mending, a table for cut- 
ting, the sewing-machine and comfortable chairs. 

One to make ready: Have needles, thread, thim- 
bles, scissors and emery at hand before you begin to 
sew. It is particularly difficult while sewing to be 
jumping up and down for implements beside the in- 
convenience frequently of scattering thread and bits 
of stuff over the floor. It is a convenience to have 
scissors of different sizes, a large pair for cutting 
out, a medium size for ripping and buttonhole scis- 
sors for that department. Needles should be of the 
best-tempered steel. No good work is possible with 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY, 293 

a poor needle. The papers marked from five to ten 
contain enough sizes to meet the usual requirements, 
five being suitable for darning cotton and ten being 
fine enough to use for lawn and cambric. The work- 
basket should always contain basting cotton as well 
as several spools respectively of fifty and sixty white 
cotton, the numbers of cotton most used in ordinary 
sewing. 

How to thread a needle: It is well to remember 
as you thread your needle that old story of Hans 
Christian Andersen about the little tailor who had a 
beautiful daughter with whom his two apprentices 
were in love. They both sought her hand in mar- 
riage. The tailor's edict was that the one who fin- 
ished a given amount of work in the shortest time 
should have her. She sat by while the work was go- 
ing on and threaded the needles for both. To the 
one to whom she was indifferent she gave long 
threads ; to her lover she gave short ones and he won 
the girl. Long threads tangle, break and get thin 
through use. Only for basting or running a seam 
are they advisable. The technical direction given by 
teachers of sewing for the length of the thread is the 
width of the shoulders, across the body from waist 
line to shoulder or from the tip of the fingers to the 
elbow. 

"When one comes near the end of the thread clip it 
with the scissors. Do not break it off with your 
teeth, both for the sake of the enamel and the neat- 
ness of your work. 



294 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

DARNING 

This branch of repairing is the hete noir of many 
an otherwise industrious person. Yet some of the 
stitches used are found in embroidery and practice 
in them gives a good foundation for that beautiful 
art. Many of us can remember some lady of the old 
school of whom it might be said truly that her darn- 
ing gave an added beauty to the article repaired. 
But most of us prefer to admire her rather than to 
imitate. Darning, properly denned, is the repairing 
of fabric by the insertion of new threads where the 
article in question has become thin or worn into a 
hole. It differs from patching in that the weak or 
broken part is woven back while in patching a piece 
of the material is inserted over the fault in the fabric. 

There are several varieties of stitch used in darn- 
ing. Those most in use are the running stitch, weav- 
ing and the diagonal stitch. 

For weak, thin and broken places one should use 
the running darn, which means the placing close to- 
gether on the wrong side a number of parallel lines 
of running stitches. It is well to leave small loops 
at the end of each row to guard against shrinkage in 
washing. 

For stockings and woven materials: The term 
darning is more often applied to the repair of stock- 
ings than to any other of its branches. The method 
most practised for this purpose and for the repair of 
woven materials generally is that of plain weaving, 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 295 

placing first a set of stitches vertically along the 
hole and then crossing these by others woven in and 
out. This should be done from the back or wrong 
side of the material. A quick way of darning is to 
take the stitches diagonally instead of lengthwise 
and crosswise. This does not make so finished an 
appearance, as it is not in harmony with the weave 
of the material, but it is sometimes more durable 
than the more usual method. 

The hole in a stocking should be made as symmet- 
rical in outline as possible before one begins darn- 
ing. If it is very large it is well to throw strands of 
thread across the hole to keep it in shape. A very 
important rule in darning is that the ends of the darn 
should not be even because this throws too great a 
strain on one line of loops. If the darning is to last, 
let its contour be wavy or diamond-shaped, and let 
the darn be not heavier than the texture of the stock- 
ing. 

Darning woven material: Where woven material 
has been torn it may be repaired by weaving back the 
broken threads. Very industrious people have been 
known to weave back the entire pattern in fine table 
damask where a hole has been torn, but the most of 
us are satisfied with a plain darn. A plain running 
dam will do for a weak place. The best effect is 
given to fine darning by the use of the raveled warp 
threads of the same material. Wool may be threaded 
by waxing it or twisting a cotton thread with it. 
Often a few stitches will hold together anything not 



296 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

destined for the laundry, but where that is in ques- 
tion there should be a close grouping of threads. 

Kid glove darn: The most satisfying way to 
mend a kid glove is to buttonhole the tear or slip 
with loops having a little interval between and then 
catch these loops together firmly with the thread. 
Such a darn will last as long as the glove and if 
neatly done is far from unsightly. 

PATCHING 

This is setting a piece into a garment or other ar- 
ticle to take the place of a worn part. "When the 
hole is too large for darning, the provident house- 
keeper must patch. A good general rule is that it is 
better to use an old piece of the stuff to be darned 
than a new one as the new may tear the fabric be- 
sides looking out of place. One should find the cen- 
ter of the hole, cut it into proper shape, either square 
or oblong. A round patch is seldom advisable. 
Then proceed somewhat according to the nature of 
the material. If it be coarse and of little value, run- 
ning or hemming the right side of the garment to the 
patch, overcasting the raw edge on the wrong side, 
may do. If the material is fine, more elaborate 
means must be used and dainty embroidery stitch^ 
taken. 

For repairing household linen and underdoses: 
Cut out the worn part in oblong or square shape, 
cut the corners diagonally, turn in small folds/on the 
four sides and hem neatly to the patch inserted from 

/ 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 297 

the back. Turn the raw edges of the repairing piece 
inward and hem or run on the wrong side. The 
width of the space between the hole and the outer 
edge of the patch should be equidistant all around. 

A neat strong patch for heavy material is inserted 
from the right side. The edges are not turned in on 
the wrong side, but they are overcast or have the 
blanket stitch over them. Naturally, therefore, 
larger folds than in the hemmed patch must be al- 
lowed both on the patch and the garment. Lay the 
patch on the garment with the folds, the edges of 
which have been overcast, turned inward. Over- 
hand the patch to the garment. Turn to the wrong 
side, cut the garment as near the overhand stitches 
as the depth of the fold on the patch. Now cut 
diagonally in the corners toward the stitches, turn 
back the edges beyond the patch, overcast and press 
with care. 

Patch for fine damask: Table-cloths and napkins 
need the most delicate patching in order to look well. 
A tear or slit in the damask may be remedied by 
overcasting both sides, opening the place and weav- 
ing ravelings of the damask back and forth over the 
torn place. But more arduous methods are needed 
for a hole of size. The damask used for mending 
should be soft, as stiff material can not be worked in. 
After having cut away the worn material in oblong 
or square shape, cut a patch exactly the right size 
and matching the pattern of the damask. Now place 



298 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

the patch in the hole and draw together with straight 
horizontal stitches closely massed or with the old her- 
ring bone stitch, the stitches a little distance apart 
and made slantingly. 

For children's clothes where they have had hard 
wear, circular patches are sometimes used. They 
can be stitched in, stretched into shape without nick- 
ing the patch, which last is a consideration. 

As to a flannel patch: It should be remembered 
as this material does not fray that it is not necessary 
to turn the edges under. The edges may be carefully 
overcast or held down with the herring bone stitch 
and thus look neater and less clumsy than if turned 
under. 

TURNING HEMS FOR TABLE-LINEN 

A trick which makes the hemming of table-linen 
play rather than work is to make an additional crease 
in the linen after the hem has been turned, a crease 
turned back exactly at the line where the hem begins. 
Then the hemming itself becomes merely the work of 
overcasting and can be done much more rapidly and 
evenly than by any other method. 

HOW TO MEND THE FRAYED HEM OF A PETTICOAT 

Take a sharp pair of scissors and cut the hem in 
the fold all the way round. Turn the edges inward 
from both sides to a depth sufficient to conceal the 
worn part and then overcast. This makes a durable, 
though not handsome, repair. 



SEWING AND MENDING DAY 299 

DUST-CLOTHS 

Dust-cloths and other cloths for household use. It 
goes without saying that a large supply of these ar- 
ticles is necessary. But it is not out of the way to 
insist that these things should be properly shaped 
and hemmed. The maid likes better to handle them 
if they are rightly made and they run less danger of 
being thrown into the waste box by the laundress. 
Indeed it has been the experience of the writer that 
the laundress will employ every subterfuge and eva- 
sion known to her kind to get out of washing what 
she calls "rags." Hem them and at once they as- 
sume a dignity not known to her before. Dust- 
eloths should be squares of white cheese-cloth with 
very narrow hems. 

RIPPING 

Mending, darning, patching — these humbler 
branches of the art of sewing — are the only ones con- 
sidered in this chapter as they are the only ones 
which have to do with the weekly management and 
care of the house. To them, however, might be 
added one other industry of the sewing-room which 
it pays to cultivate with some regularity and assidu- 
ity. This is the habit of ripping up old garments 
or half-worn or unsatisfactory ones, taking apart 
the trimmings of hats, sorting these and laying them 
aside for future use. Eipping should be done care- 
fully and in a leisurely manner with the points of 



300 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

fine small scissors. The person who snips the thread 
at the top of a seam and then tears it the rest of the 
way is not apt to find her material when the demand 
comes for it in so serviceable a condition as the one 
who takes a little more time and bestows more atten- 
tion upon the work. 



CHAPTER XXII 

ACCORDING TO THE SEASON 
HOUSE-CLEANING 

The old-fashioned way of cleaning house was, at 
best, a formidable way, one which struck terror to 
the hearts especially of the male members of a family. 
There were of old, as there are now, housekeepers 
who knew how to manage and those who did not — 
housekeepers who did things in a flurry and those 
who did them with composure. But notwithstanding 
the fact that the natural differences between compe- 
tent and incompetent women are still what they used 
to be, a difference exists between the spirit in which 
people undertake the task now and the spirit of long 
ago. The general prevalence nowadays of the pol- 
ished floor instead of the dust-attracting carpet has 
something to do with this. The general use of light- 
ly constructed metal beds and of light-weight mat- 
tresses makes the duties of this trying time less ardu- 
ous. The manufacture of convenient aids of every 
sort for the purpose of cleaning adds yet another 
reason for the change indicated, which perhaps owes 
most of all to the more general dissemination of 
knowledge on the subject — to the books on household 
matters where all the facts in the case are classified 

301 



302 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

and put into an orderly arrangement. What used 
to be the special knowledge of the few who gained 
everything by the hard road of experience has now 
become the property of the many. It is easier to 
manage when one has before one instructions how 
best and most easily to do so. 

The house-cleaning season a necessity for most of 
us: There are certain model housekeepers of to-day 
who manage so cleverly, who follow method so per- 
sistently and punctiliously that such a thing as the 
house-cleaning period, the "week of woe" as a friend 
of my own dubbed it, is unknown in their households. 
But the most of us still find it necessary to set apart a 
time of the year when we go into the business of 
cleaning and rearranging with a touch more thorough 
than the one employed from week to week. To this 
period we leave the buying of the new curtains and 
tapestries, the refurbishing of our old furniture, the 
annual change in the position of the furniture, the 
improvements we feel warranted in making from 
year to year for the bettering of our houses. And 
for the additional tax on our energies, we feel repaid 
by the sense of rest in novelty given us by the com- 
pleteness and variety of the job. 

Spring or fall cleaning: Some housekeepers go 
through this ultra business of cleaning twice a year, 
in the spring and in the autumn. Others deem once 
a year sufficient. If it is done but once, the autumn 
is the better time. The house should of course be 
clean at all times. But the arrangements for living 



ACCORDING TO THE SEASON, 303 

in winter are much more complicated than those for 
summer. As we spend much more time in the house 
in winter than in summer, the appearance and com- 
fort of the house at that time are matters of greater 
import to us. Our new papering, our new curtains 
and tapestries, the new bedroom set or dining-room 
table, — these are more acceptable in the autumn when 
we must be stay-at-homes more or less, when our 
friends drop in informally or respond to set invita- 
tions. If the house-cleaning is an annual affair let 
it be in the autumn with a sub-activity in the spring 
which shall mean merely the sensible preparation for 
summer housekeeping. 

The special tasks involved in house-cleaning have, 
the most of them, in some form or other already been 
treated in this book. They are, however, scattered, 
inserted without reference to the grand "tearing- 
up" we call house-cleaning. And the object of this 
chapter is rather to put these tasks in relation and to 
give general directions than to offer recipes for the 
work itself. 

Where to "begin: It may seem rather pedantic to 
say: Begin with a pencil and book — but even ped- 
antry has its places and this is one of them. Set 
down everything that must be done both in the regu- 
lar order of house-cleaning and as regards the spe- 
cial improvements you have in mind. Sort out these 
duties as far as possible and arrange them so that 
they dovetail into one another. You will never be 
able to carry out the program exactly as you have set 



304 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

it down in black and white. Paper-hangers, cabi- 
net-makers, carpenters and "help by the day" will 
see that you don't; but you will come out much bet- 
ter with a plan than without one. The amount of 
work you can do and can have done will be double. 

Practical preparation: All the articles needed for 
cleaning should be bought and put in the housekeep- 
er's closet before the cleaning begins. A list of these 
includes broom cloths, heavy flannel cloths for rub- 
bing, dust-cloths, ordinary brooms, wall brooms, mop 
brooms, step-ladder, whisk-broom, rug beater, a rat- 
tan mattress beater, dust-pans, tacks, nails, tack- 
hammer, ammonia, kerosene, borax, gasoline, furni- 
ture polish, pumice-stone, linseed-oil and a long-han- 
dled window brush. To have them all together in 
some convenient place saves time and running about. 

Closets and drawers: My actual work always be- 
gins with an overhauling of closets, drawers and pan- 
tries. This is work which can be done in a leisurely 
fashion at odd times and little at a time. Well done, 
it forms an admirable basis for subsequent and more 
arduous operations. 

The attic: This is my next point of attack. In 
the attic, unless great care is taken, is the treasured 
hiding-place of Mr. Moth. Old furniture and cloth- 
ing not in use offer special facilities for his devastat- 
ing progress. The sensible and philanthropic 
woman does not allow large accumulations of articles 
not in use. The labor of going over these year after 
year, sorting and folding and cleaning is heavy. 



ACCORDING TO THE SEASON 305 

And to keep things which there is slight possibility 
of one's ever needing or using is selfish when the 
world is so full of those in need. Years ago it fell 
to the lot of the writer to examine a number of 
trunks stored away in an attic by an ancient relative 
who had just died. Here were to be found the use- 
less accumulations of years, muslins yellowed with 
age, old silks creased by time till they dropped apart 
when lifted out of their resting-places, a vast collec- 
tion of gowns, hats, laces, odd pieces of stuff, all of 
which in their natural day might have been of some 
use to the world, now crumbling to pieces and serv- 
ing only as a tax upon the energies of an impatient 
relative. The experience was a lesson to the writer 
in getting rid of the superfluous. House-cleaning 
time is the time to make way with stuff not in actual 
use and to benefit, at the same time, one's poorer 
friends. 

Rugs: It is well to have all the rugs in the house 
cleaned, folded up and laid away early in the game 
of house-cleaning and so left till the other work is 
over. 

The upstairs: As the dirt, in spite of the great- 
est care, filters down from one floor to the next, the 
floors should be cleaned in order, beginning with the 
top and working on down. On the sleeping floor the 
bedrooms should be cleaned first, then the bath or 
baths and hallway. 

Program for cleaning oedrooms: Take down pic- 
tures, curtains and other hangings. Take the bed 



306 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

apart, brush it and wash the pieces. Clear the room 
of furniture, take the mattress out of doors, beat and 
clean this article of furniture. Sweep the carpet or 
floor clean and clear of all the loose dirt. Clean the 
walls and ceiling by wiping down with a covered 
wall-broom or by using one of the preparations now 
on the market for such purpose. These prepara- 
tions clean the walls beautifully and may be used as 
successfully by a well-trained servant as by the man 
sent from the shops. Wash the woodwork, floors and 
windows. Clean and polish the furniture. Replace 
it and other furnishings. 

Cleaning the down-stairs: Take the rooms in the 
most convenient order, cleaning from the front to the 
back, leaving the hall till library, dining-room and 
living-room are finished. If the cellar or basement 
was not cleaned after the attic had its turn, now is 
the time for it. The kitchen comes last on the list. 

Itemised order of cleaning: The program for 
cleaning recommended in the preceding paragraphs 
follows without comment. 

1. Make out list of things to be done during the 
week with a special reference to necessary repair and 
improvements. 

2. Collect articles and implements needed in clean- 
ing. 

3. Clean closets, drawers and pantries. 

4. Clean the attic and cellar. 

5. Have rugs cleaned, rolled up and put away. 

6. Bedrooms, bath-rooms and upper hall. 



ACCORDING TO THE SEASON 307 

7. Living-room, library, dining-room, lower hall 
and stairway. 

8. Kitchen. 

Housekeeping in summer: For those who do not 
indulge in the out-and-out spring cleaning, there is 
yet a round of tasks peculiar to the season and neces- 
sary in order to make the house comfortable and 
habitable for the spring and summer months. These 
duties consist largely in putting away the furnishings 
we do not need and which serve in the warm weather 
no other purpose than that of dust collectors. The 
fitness of furnishings has much to do with the ap- 
peal made to our sense of beauty by them ; and it is 
perfectly true that a room which may appear beauti- 
fully and appropriately furnished in February will, 
with the same furnishings, strike one as stuffy and 
oppressive in July. One rule of beauty and com- 
fort obtains in winter, another in summer. In the 
latter season let us dispense with heavy hangings. 
Let us do with the fewest pieces of bric-a-brac and 
the minimum quantity of rugs. By the process of 
elimination the housekeeper's work is lightened and 
a sense of coolness and comfort diffused through the 
house. 

Still other methods should be used for making easy 
the work of the house during the summer season. 
Cold meats may be used where hot ones have been 
necessary. The fruit provided by the market may 
take the place of made desserts. With care even the 
householder and family who remain within city lim- 



308 THE HOU&EKEEPEB'S WEEK 

its, during the warm season, may slacken their work 
to something like a vacation pace. 

CARE OF THE HOUSE IN SUMMER 

How to make the house ready for closing: The 
first rule is a comprehensive one. Leave everything 
as clean as possible. Have your rugs rolled and put 
in a safe place after cleaning. Fold or put away cur- 
tains and tapestries. Don't leave anything eatable 
where mice can get at it. Wash the kitchen, pantry 
and laundry floors with water to which a little car- 
bolic acid has been added. The plumbing should be 
flushed with carbolic acid water and flushed again 
just before you leave with hot sal-soda water. A gal- 
lon of water needs a pound of soda. To protect the 
house from that deadly danger, sewer gas, pour a few 
spoonfuls of sweet-oil into each trap before leaving. 
This will prevent the evaporation of the water in the 
trap or the breaking of the water-seal supposed to 
protect the house usually from the danger of sewer 
gas. Camphor-balls strewn along the edges of the 
carpet will protect it from moths; so will pieces of 
cotton dipped in cedar oil. And after all this is 
done, no matter how speckless and dustless is the con- 
dition of the house at the time of your departure, 
you may rely upon it, by some miraculous means, 
known only to himself, Mr. Dust will have forced his 
entrance and made terms with the furniture by the 
time you return. 

Summer vacation housekeeping: Many a Kus- 



ACCOKDING TO THE SEASON 309 

band who rents a cottage in the mountain or at the 
seashore for Mary and the children during the sum- 
mer months, wonders why Mary comes back looking 
exactly as tired as when she went away. The reason 
is very often Mary's own fault and is due to her 
thick-headed obstinacy in trying to keep up city 
housekeeping the whole year round. If the summer 
residence, instead of being a villa, as a summer house 
should not be, is a clean, comfortable place with, say, 
one big living-room, a dining-room, kitchen, plenty 
of porch room and the necessary bedrooms, the fol- 
lowing rules may convey some idea of how it should 
be taken care of without too much labor : 

1. Mop porches, living-room and dining-room once 
a day. 

2. Let each person take care of his own bedroom, 
except for the weekly cleaning by the maid. 

3. Let every person lend a hand the last thing at 
night to clearing up the living-room and leaving it 
in order for the morning. 

4. Let the cooking be simple and wholesome. Cut 
out pastry altogether and have coffee but once a day. 

5. Whenever possible, dine out of doors, making 
a picnic of the occasion. 

6. Let each member of the household, including 
guests, do his or her part toward making the house- 
keeping wheels go smoothly. There is no reason 
why some of the strength gained in rowing, walking 
and living out-of-doors should not be put at the serv- 
ice of Madam Housekeeper, 



310 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

CANNING FRUIT 

The special household industry of the summer and 
autumn months is that of canning fruit, making 
ready the store-closet for the time when the gener- 
ous earth no longer yields abundance of fruit and 
vegetables. A few simple rules follow concerning 
the purchase of fruit, the treatment of cans and jars 
and the utensils necessary in cooking. 

1. Buy the fruit when finest and juiciest. Do 
not wait till it declines in price and quality. 

2. In putting up berries, separate the large and 
the small, using the first for canning, the second for 
making juice. 

3. In selecting fruit for jelly, choose that which is 
underripe rather than that which is overripe. 

4. Buy pint jars in which to can or preserve your 
fruit. The fruit is much less likely to be wasted if 
put up in pint jars than in larger ones. 

5. Before beginning the work of putting up your 
fruit have on hand the utensils to do it properly. 
These are a good preserving kettle of enameled iron 
or still better of aluminum, a wooden spoon to stir 
with when necessary, a skimmer, a dipper or ladle 
for putting the fruit in jar or can, a pair of scales, 
a pair of scissors, a funnel to fit into the mouth of 
jar or can, a pint cup to measure with. 

6. When canning fruit that must be pared always 
use a silver knife for the purpose. A steel knife 
gives an ugly acrid flavor to the fruit. 



ACCORDING TO THE SEASON 311 

7. Sterilize your fruit cans and lids the night be- 
fore they are to be used by putting them in a bath of 
cold water softened by borax and boiling them for 
twenty minutes. 

8. In the morning fill the clean cans with water, 
put on the rubber and the lid which must be screwed 
down tight. Then turn upside down when if there 
is a leak it is bound to show. 

9. Never use old rings. They are useless but not 
too useless to serve you a bad turn. 

10. Buy the best granulated sugar for canning and 
preserving. A clear syrup is proof of its purity. If 
such a syrup does not result from cooking, return to 
your grocer. 

11. Be careful not to put your hot cans on a cold 
surface and not to let a draft of cold air strike 
them. 

12. Be sure that your can is hot when you intro- 
duce into it the hot fruit. Many people wind a hot 
damp cloth about the jar. Others put the cans in a 
vessel filled with hot water while filling them. 



CHAPTER XXIII 



THE TEMPLE OF THE BODY 



Thus it stands in the grand old Catechism from 
which many of us learn all the theology of which we 
can boast. If the injunction to devote the First Day 
of the week to religious exercises except such por- 
tions of it as are given to "works of necessity and 
mercy, ' ' smacks, to latter-day saints, of Sabbatarian- 
ism, it must be admitted that the qualifying clause 
does not lack elasticity. 

Beyond peradventure it embraces the intelligent 
care of what we should regard reverently as the 
"temple of the body." Upon the preservation and 
upbuilding of this depends the welfare of mind and 
soul to an extent that may not be safely ignored. 
Health is a sacred duty. 

In the practical talk we shall hold together on this 
subject, I shall not trench upon the province of 
the physician. Drugs are dangerous elements in un- 
skilled hands. All the same, Nature, as the laity may 
know it, is a vast pharmacopoeia of assuasives and 
curatives, and "Nursing makes for more in the 
sick-room than medicines" is a proverb that holds 
as fast as ' ' Prevention is better than Cure. ' ' .Which 

312 



THE TEMPLE OF THE BODY, 313 

last, being interpreted, means that where just pre- 
caution is observed, there will, as a rule, be no need 
of cure. 

I purpose, then, to group in the pages that yet re- 
main to us, a few general rules for the preservation 
of sanity in these bodies of ours, and simple direc- 
tions for the repair of the same when natural laws 
have been broken to the detriment of the sadly under- 
valued ' ' Temple. " 

Do not smile if we begin with the act of Breathing. 

Millions never draw a real, true breath from the 
first to the last inspiration. "E'en down to old age" 
they live in half-breaths. When you rise in the 
morning set the window of your bath-room open, 
place yourself against the wall, and, closing the 
mouth, take a deep, slow breath, hold it while you 
count seven, thus driving fresh air down to the bot- 
tom of your poor, starved lungs. Let out the air 
as slowly as you inhaled it — always with the mouth 
closed. The mouth was never meant to act as a 
part of the breathing apparatus. Do this ten times 
before you take the morning tubbing. Manage to do 
it eight times during the day, if possible, and again 
when you are ready for bed — ten times in all. You 
will thus have had one hundred genuine breaths, 
such as Grod intended each one of us to take every 
time we go through the form of receiving and expel- 
ling His glorious life-giving air with the machinery 
He made for that purpose and for that alone. 

Hardly a day passes in which I do not hear some- 



314 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

body say — carelessly, or regretfully — "I never prac- 
tise deep breathing. I suppose it is the thing to do, 
but I have never turned my attention to the matter." 
I should be as much ashamed to own that I had never 
bathed my whole body. It is as unclean to retain 
effete air — often reeking with malevolent germs — in 
corners of the lungs, as not to wash out the creases 
of the joints, or between the toes. When you have 
refreshed the long-neglected organs with one hun- 
dred breaths per diem you will find that you are 
forming the habit of right breathing. At length 
nothing else will satisfy you. You will hunger and 
thirst for pure air, and enough of it. And, up-to- 
date, there is — thank Heaven ! — no fresh air trust ! 

If breathing at all be a fad, then is deep breathing 
one. I could write pages in praise of it. Its vir- 
tues are not confined to the lungs. It assists diges- 
tion; it restores proper circulation to the blood; it 
clears the'brain and tones up the whole system. And 
to think that not one person in five thousand ever 
really breathes more than half-way down his lungs! 
Deep breathing should be made a compulsory exer- 
cise in public schools. 

After which preamble I give an extract from a 
writer of note who is thoroughly imbued with a sense 
of the importance of the duty. 

"On arising and the last thing before going to bed, 
when you have on your night dress, stand with your 
back against the door and fill your lungs, breathing 
through the nostrils, with the mouth closed, until the 



THE TEMPLE OF THE BODY 315 

lungs can hold no more. Eetain the breath while 
you count four. Expel it through the nose, count- 
ing seven. Practise this breathing movement ten 
times. 

"Next, stand upright, turn out the toes so that the 
heels touch. Place your hands on your hips, the 
fingers on the diaphragm, the thumbs back — in the 
soft part of the back, either side of the spinal column. 
Now draw in a deep breath, force the air down, so 
that you feel the thumbs pressed out, through the 
expansion of the lower back part of the lungs ; hold 
the breath while counting four, expel counting 
seven. Practise this movement six times. 

"Third movement: Stand straight, head up, 
shoulders thrown back, arms hanging by the side. 
Now gradually raise the arms until they are high 
above the head. While you are performing this 
movement take in a deep breath through the nostrils 
until the lungs can hold no more. Retain the breath 
while counting four. Now gradually lower the 
arms, at the same time slowly expelling the breath, 
counting seven. Repeat six times. 

"Practise deep breathing constantly. Take deep 
inspirations with the mouth closed, retain the breath 
a few seconds and exhale through the nostrils. Lay 
your hand on the abdomen when you take one of 
these deep inspirations, and you will see the flatten- 
ing effect on the stomach. In a little while you will 
breathe correctly, waking and sleeping." 

From another authority almost as eminent we have 



316 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

further confirmation of the wisdom of the advice to 
train the lungs in the exercise of the function that 
means life and health to the whole system. That the 
partial fulfilment of the duty leads to disease and de- 
cay, is a reasonable conclusion. 

"Draw in the air slowly, easily and fully. When 
you have filled your lungs, without straining, hold 
your breath in for a few seconds, then slowly and 
steadily breathe out through the nose and keep your 
lungs empty for a few seconds before another inspi- 
ration. The muscles of the body which the will does 
not directly control, like the heart and the respira- 
tory organs, work rhythmically. Therefore, in 
breathing, do not gasp and hurry and change your 
pace every minute. To practise the right method, 
hold yourself, sitting or standing, in a natural, erect 
fashion, with your head raised, throat free and arms 
hanging loosely. Do not practise within an hour 
after meals and if you get dizzy it is a sign that you 
should stop. Mouth-breathing causes the nose to be- 
come blocked up through disuse. This has its effect 
on the voice. Resonance and intensity are lost be- 
cause the sound which should ordinarily pass 
through the nose is deadened." 

The last sentence tempts me to call attention to an 
error of every-day speech so universal that we have 
ceased to see the absurdity of it. We say this or that 
person "talks through the nose," when we would de- 
scribe the peculiar quality of voice attributed by for- 
eigners to us as a national characteristic. When, in 



THE TEMPLE OF THE BODY 317 

fact, the man in question speaks as one might who 
holds the nose between thumb and finger, and forces 
voice and breath through the throat. As the writer 
just quoted remarks — "The sound which should pass 
througKthe nose is deadened." 

How much the failure to breathe properly — that is 
through the nose and not the mouth — has to do with 
what our transatlantic critics sneer at as "the na- 
tional catarrh, " is a matter for scientific inquiry. It 
is probably accountable for the untimely relapse of 
so many of us into the piping wheeze of old age. So 
prevalent is this premature decadence that what is 
commented upon as "a young voice" in man or 
woman who has passed milestone number fifty, ex- 
cites general notice and admiration. Old age is in- 
evitable, but why invite it to take early possession 
of us? 

Supplement the breathing exercises by a simple 
set of gentle gymnastics. 

Take these directly after you have had your les- 
son in breathing, leaving the window open all the 
time, no matter how cold the weather may be. 

Stand perfectly erect, chin level, arms straight at 
your sides, and shoulders squared for a full minute 
to let the lungs get quiet. Then, swing the arms back 
and forth at their full length, bringing them up to the 
level of the shoulders with each swing. Do this 
twenty times at the first lesson, increasing the num- 
ber daily until you swing the arms fifty times every 
morning and every night. 



318 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

If you like, you may get a pair of light dumb-bells, 
by and by. Do not fall into the mistake of swinging 
them two or three hundred times. That is labor-r— 
not healthful exercise. After the swing has suppled 
the arms, stretch them out straight in front of you 
and work the wrists up and down, shutting and clos- 
ing the hand as you bend the wrists. Do this ten 
times. Next, stretch the arms out widely on a level 
with the shoulders, and, holding them stiff and 
straight, and the muscles tense, bring the palms 
slowly together without relaxing the tension of the 
muscles — as if you were pushing against an unseen 
obstacle with all your might. Do this, also, ten times, 
putting all your strength into it every time. This is 
the most useful of the brief list of exercises. It 
strengthens lungs, stomach and the whole muscular 
system, as you will see if you watch the swelling of 
cords under the skin and the growing ruddiness of 
the flesh, showing the answer of the blood to the 
strain. Now, take three deep, long breaths and stand 
erect for thirty seconds. Finally, stoop as low as 
you can, bending knees at right angles and the joints 
of the thighs in like manner. Rise to an erect pos- 
ture, without laying hold of anything to assist you in 
regaining the perpendicular. Do this fifteen times. 

You are now ready for the bath. The whole series 
of preparations for what the day may have for the 
body to do and to endure has not taken more than 
twelve minutes at the most. I have gone through 
the regimen daily for a dozen years, and I bring it 



THE TEMPLE OF THE BODY 319 

all and the rapid bath within fifteen minutes and ac- 
count the quarter-hour thus spent as the most valua- 
ble investment of the day. It awakens all the organs 
to what old-fashioned people call "a realizing sense 
of their duty." It supples the muscles, and stimu- 
lates the brain by encouraging the normal circulation 
of the blood. One man who adopted the system 
twenty years ago, and who has kept it up as a reli- 
gious duty until now, tells me— "If I omit it for a 
day, I can hear my joints crack the next morning." 
He is sixty-five, and looks twenty years younger. 

A third extract from the printed testimony of 
thoughtful students of physical culture as to a daily 
duty, will close a homily upon a theme that can 
hardly be rated too high in the scale of personal obli- 
gation. Our author now is a woman — and to' our 
shame be it said — we are much more backward in 
recognizing the weight of obligation in this line than 
our brothers. 

"To derive benefit from physical culture is one of 
the most difficult things to accomplish. Such a state- 
ment sounds discouraging, but the fault is really with 
women themselves, both business women and women 
of leisure. The former are hard pressed for time — 
they who most surely need the good of exercise — and 
the latter are — well, one might unkindly call it 
lazy! There is not the slightest doubt that untold 
benefits — in fact, the salvation of a woman's health — 
lie in physical exercise. But it is a long, tedious un- 
dertaking and requires no little strength of will to 



320 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

carry it out successfully. The woman who persists 
faithfully is the one who reaps rich rewards. After 
all, when you think of it seriously, fifteen to thirty 
minutes in the morning and evening is not a great 
deal of time taken from one's busy day. If more 
women would try the exhilarating, strengthening 
process of exercise in their rooms, with windows 
wide open, there would be far less evil from confine- 
ment of business and home duties. ' ' 

Do we reflect aright — do an immense percentage of 
us reflect at all — upon the momentous truth that up- 
on the health of women depends the bodily sanity of 
the generation following ? Healthy branches do not 
spring from a sickly stock. 

THE BATH 

Why the believers in cold-water bathing as essen- 
tial to cleanliness, to health — and I had nearly said, 
to the soul's salvation — should insist upon the uni- 
versal adoption of their creed, is almost as inexpli- 
cable as that the dietetic crank should seek to bind 
hard-and-fast laws upon the gastronomic consciences 
of his neighbors, without respect for digestive idio- 
syncrasies. I do not like to think how many useful 
lives have been sacrificed to the craze for the ice-cold 
bath. Here and there, a physician is brave enough 
to tell the man of full habit who has a tendency to 
apoplexy, that he takes serious risks whenever he 
plunges into a bath so cold that it drives the blood in 



THE TEMPLE OF THE BODY 321 

a mad rush from the extremities to the brain. Or, he 
has too much common sense not to dissuade the anse- 
mic woman from the use of the icy shower, succeed- 
ing the hot bath, without which "she could not live 
through the day." The only drawback to her appre- 
ciation of the beneficial downpour is, as she moans 
herself — that she "can not get up a reactionary glow 
for hours thereafter and her hands and feet never 
get warm." 

Cold water does not cleanse so readily or so 
thoroughly as warm. Florence Mghtingale told the 
nurses in the Crimean hospitals over fifty years ago 
that more could be done, in the way of cleansing skin 
and wounds, with a quart of hot water than with ten 
gallons of cold. (A hard lesson for the British tub- 
toper to master!) Warm water opens the pores and 
softens the cuticle, allowing sponge or cloth to get out 
the clinging dirt, and removing dead skin with accre- 
tions of insensible perspiration. Cold water causes 
the pores to contract upon whatever they may con- 
tain. "We have in two sentences the root of the 
whole matter. After clearing away what obstructs 
skin-action, by the use of warm water and bland old 
soap, one may douche the cleansed surface with cold 
water, and enjoy even to exhilaration the glow suc- 
ceeding the shock and may safely indulge in shower 
and glow. In my opinion — and I do not utter this 
idly — there are as many bath-loving men, women and 
children to whom cold bathing is a positive injury as 



322 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

there are those who may use it habitually without 
danger to health and life. 

Whether the bath be hot, tepid, or cold, follow it 
up immediately by a brisk rub with a rough towel. 
Unless you are chilled to the bone, such a process 
will produce the desired reaction, bringing the blood 
to the surface, and making toes and fingers tingle 
with warmth. 

Profound meaning underlies the ancient adage we 
quote often and carelessly — "Cleanliness is next to 
godliness." It is not easy for the soul and the intel- 
lect to live comfortably in bilious and congested 
bodies. Some saints have achieved this. But we 
are not — all of us — saints. We need every help we 
can press into service in the work of living decent, 
Christianly lives. 

HOW TO GROW TALLER 

Diminutive stature is an inconvenience, sometimes. 
It is always a mortification, especially when the short 
person is a boy or man. So well" is this understood 
by physiologists that various devices are recom- 
mended by doctors, and sundry systems advertised 
by quacks, for overcoming the defect. I have the 
pleasure of writing out here brief rules for stimulat- 
ing natural growth by simple and harmless means. 

If you take simple stretching exercises your height 
will increase. Rising on toes, stretching the tips of 
the fingers as far toward the ceiling as they will go, 
then sweeping the hands over front, touching tips of 



THE TEMPLE OF THE BODY 323 

fingers or palms of hand to floor, keeping both knees 
straight, are excellent exercises. 

The best time for the " stretching" is just after the 
bath in the morning and at night. Stand back 
against the wall, and on tiptoe, stretch both arms 
straight up to their utmost tension. Stand thus 
while you can count ten, let yourself down slowly to 
your heels, wait for twenty seconds, and repeat the 
stretching process. Do this ten times. Mark each 
morning the extreme point to which hands and head 
can attain. In the course of a month you will note 
slight, but steady growth. Persevere for months, 
practising faithfully twice or three times a day. 

I know of one man who gained two inches in stat- 
ure in less than a year — and this when he was twenty- 
two years of age. 

SLEEP AND INSOMNIA 

A prime desideratum for the human creature who 
would sleep wisely and well, is plenty of fresh air 
in the bedroom. One of my worthy coadjutors 
writes pertinently and with feeling on this head: 

"Unless a current of fresh air be allowed to cir- 
culate in the sleeping apartment the air becomes stale 
and stagnant, the sleeper breathing his own breath, 
laden with slow but none the less deadly poisons, over 
and over again. The atmosphere is often further 
contaminated by the escape of coal gas, which, even 
though slight, is none the less injurious when inhaled 
for eight or nine hours every night. When gas has 



324 THE HOUSEKEEPEB'S WEEK 

been burned in the room several hours before the oc- 
cupant goes to bed, unless the ventilation has been 
good, the products of imperfect combustion of coal 
gas are present in the air and must be inhaled by the 
sleeper to the great detriment of health. It is still 
a very common practice to heat rooms and especially 
bedrooms by turning on all the gas jets to the full and 
closing every aperture that might admit a little fresh 
air. An apartment treated in such a manner is no 
longer fit to be used as a bedroom, but it makes an 
excellent lethal chamber for those who contemplate 
a leisurely suicide." 

When, in addition to the noxious influences our 
author enumerates, is added stale tobacco smoke from 
the pipes or cigars of John senior and junior, who 
have filled the adjoining rooms with the incense of 
the burnt-offerings to the genius of Home, during the 
evening, insanitation grows into abomination. Not 
infrequently the junior smokes surreptitiously in his 
bedroom, saturating curtains, rugs and bed-clothing 
with nicotine perfume. Without a dissentient syl- 
lable as to the cigar (if it be a good weed) , I do insist 
that every sleeping apartment should be aired through 
open windows for at least one hour before bedtime, 
and that during that hour nobody shall stay in the 
room to add carbonic acid gas to the pure air from 
without. For that is what we throw off to mingle 
with the air with every breath we exhale. ' ' Slow, but 
deadly poison," as we have just read. If we would 
sleep well, we must breathe well, i.e., normally. 



THE TEMPLE OP THE BODY 325 

The young need more sleep than their parents and 
grandparents require, for they have to collect 
strength for growth as well as for waste. This is the 
philosophy of the maternal behest — "Early hours for 
the nursery. ' ' Women need more sleep than men — 
why, it is not so easy to explain. In reading up on 
this point a few days ago I happened upon something 
that pleased me too much to be kept to myself. 

"The secret of more than one notable instance of 
beautiful mothers and grandmothers is acknowledged 
to be due directly to the ability to take a quiet little 
nap at any time of the day, when a busy afternoon 
and a long evening are before them. It really seems, 
then, one of the cleverest attainments open to the 
eternal feminine — this capacity of capturing forty 
winks whenever she pleases." 

Until I read that paragraph I had never regarded 
the ability to "catch a nap " at any convenient place — 
and in all sorts of inconvenient places — as a feminine 
prerogative. It is a natural gift with some, perhaps. 
It might be acquired by any and every woman. Ten 
minutes' sleep in the dark corner of a "Ladies' Wait- 
ing-Room" in station, or hotel; a nap on a sofa or in 
an easy chair in my own drawing-room between the 
lights, when I had dressed for a dinner, and had yet 
fifteen minutes before the arrival of the guests or 
guest who may be depended upon to be five minutes 
ahead of the rest ; a delicious doze in a swift railway- 
train — these have made me over as good as new, 
times without number. I doubt not that they have 



326 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

added sensibly to my length of vigorous days. Cul- 
tivate the accomplishment, if you have never yet 
learned it. 

Insomnia is an affliction, let it be the result of 
diseased nerves or a natural infirmity. I could fill a 
volume with proposed remedies for it. I must omit 
all but a chosen few. 

The friendly chemist to whom I already owe so 
many suggestions and helps in the preparation of 
my book that I despair of repayment, writes apropos 
of applications for remedies for insomnia: 

"As to insomnia, my own remedy is to withdraw 
the blood from my brain by setting my stomach to 
work with food to be digested. I simply go to the 
cupboard and partake of the eatables there. Then 
I quickly lie down. The same deliberate regulation 
of the blood-flow I find effective when I awake and 
start 'a-thinking' in the night, which I often do — a 
bad habit, too ! 

"In severe cases I advise the purchase of a tiny 
electric lamp fed from a small storage battery, if the 
bedroom has no electric fixtures. Paint the bulb 
with asphaltum or with paste, colored black with ink', 
except a little spot on it the size of a very small pea. 
Fix this bulb above the bed so that in lying down 
you have to look at the spot almost backward while 
looking upward. This scheme is based on the fact 
that in sleeping the eyeballs turn naturally- upward 
so that only the white is visible. Try that by gently 
opening the eyelids of any sleeping person and you 



THE TEMPLE OF THE BODY 327 

will see only the white of eyes. This "spot look- 
ing" produces sleep in a short while, in most cases. 
Then, again, don't eat much before retiring and 
drink a glass of hot milk containing a pinch of 
bicarbonate of soda. If milk disagrees with you, 
use hot lemonade. Many sleepless ones get up and 
walk the floor, counting each turn at a certain spot. 
This tires the overactive mind quickly. Others 
imagine greensward, ever extending, and repeat: 
'A-nice-green-greensward.' This, too, produces 
sleep. Never use narcotics except when the doctor 
wills it. "When you are once used to them they grad- 
ually lose effect and you have to use larger doses all 
the time, detrimental to the nerves. ' ' 

A partial repetition of the counsels here offered is 
found in a late issue of a medical journal: 

"The sound of water dropping slowly and steadily 
into a pan occupies and quiets the brain. This is the 
principle on which we are told to count sheep going 
over a fence, and do any sort of automatic thinking. 
One victim cured himself by keeping the eyeballs 
looking down. Another kept them rolling in one 
direction, repeating, meanwhile, a certain number 
or figure. An intellectual exercise should be stopped 
a half hour before bedtime. A glass of milk, instead 
of the usual copious drafts of water, taken during 
sleeplessness, will often help to overcome it." 

The simple expedient of keeping a slice of bread 
and butter within easy reach to be eaten should sleep 
prove coy has won for me many hours of refreshing 



328 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

slumber. The mere fact that you can get it, is a 
sedative. When eaten it makes the stomach the ally 
of the tired brain by drawing the blood away to assist 
in the work of digestion. 

NIGHTMARE AND SNORING 

If you sleep upon your back with your arms above 
your head you invite the snoring habit, and, almost as 
surely, a nightmare. The position interferes with 
the heart action and pumps the blood to the head. 
Moreover, it impedes digestion. Nothing but will 
power will break you of the trick. Practise what sci- 
entists call "auto suggestion." Resolve nightly on 
lying down that you will lie on the right side and keep 
your arms down. If you have a room-mate impress 
upon that person the friendly duty of awakening you 
roughly if the obnoxious position be assumed. An 
elastic band worn under the chin to keep the mouth 
shut will prevent snoring. No one can snore freely 
unless the mouth be open. 

A common-sensible physician contributes the an- 
nexed preventive of nightmare: "Nightmare is 
generally caused by lying on the back while asleep, 
and the pressure of the viscera on two large blood- 
vessels situated near the spine and running parallel 
therewith. To prevent, tie a large hard knot in a 
long towel, or piece of muslin, etc., in the middle, 
then fasten the towel around the waist in such a man- 
ner as to have the knot over the spine. When the 
sleeper happens to turn on her back the hard knot 



THE TEMPLE OP THE BODYi 329 

will feel so uncomfortable that she will be compelled 
to roll over on either side." 

The assertion — "I can not get to sleep in the day- 
time!" is usually uttered so positively as to put argu- 
ment — much less denial — out of the question. I 
meet it, then, with the simple statement as firmly 
enunciated — "But you can rest, if you do not sleep." 
Utter relaxation of the nerves and muscles, the de- 
termination to accept in passive submission Jenny 
Wren's wooing invitation piped from the house-top 
— "Come! and be dead!" are the next best things to 
sleep for lulling unrest and lengthening human life. 

An author better-qualified than I to instruct you 
in the modus operandi of the art, of which she is a 
past-mistress, goes thus into the details of the several 
stages of the making-over of the tired woman : 

"It is very necessary to learn how to rest properly. 
Do not insist that change of occupation is rest: there, 
is the greater delusion. To acquire perfect rest, set- 
tle yourself in a corner, arrange your feet and arms, 
and, indeed, your whole body, until you feel com- 
fortable from head to foot. 

"Sit in this position for five minutes, motionless. 
Don't move, don't do anything, but take long, chest- 
developing, easy breaths. Whether you close the 
eyes or leave them open does not matter. But don't 
move ! At the end of five minutes you will feel very 
much rested. If it is possible, take these rest treat- 
ments two or three times a day. At any rate force 
yourself to observe the treatment at least once every 



330 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

day. You will be surprised at the amount of good it 
will accomplish for you. 

"The nervous woman who feels inclined to scream 
if the door bangs or any one drops a fork, the girl 
who is 'not in the least cross' (though all her family 
think she is) but who 'can not help being irritable,' 
needs ten minutes of absolute relaxation at least once 
a day in a quiet, darkened room. She is simply over- 
worked and run down — a victim of nerves. 

"On nervous days when you feel like flying out of 
the window from sheer irritability, stand erect, hands 
clasped in front and head bowed, having expelled all 
the breath from the lungs. Now slowly lift the head 
and shoulders until the head is very erect and inhale 
deeply through the nostrils. This exercise will, in a 
few minutes, cause the nervous feeling to subside, 
and, incidentally, is an excellent way of reducing a 
double chin." 



CHAPTER XXIV 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDICA 



'A domestic medicine chest stocked with drugs is a 
dangerous thing. I am disposed sometimes to think 
that familiarity with what is technically known as 
"Materia Medica" is a snare to the housemother. 
She would better leave the selection and the handling 
of drugs, especially those that contain mineral mat- 
ter, to apothecary and physician. She is passing 
wise in her generation if she makes a careful study of 
the properties, values and uses of the contents of 
larder and store-room. 

It is not enough to say that this meat, that vege- 
table, or the other sweet disagrees with one. She 
should know why, and what to substitute for the un- 
wholesome article. She should know, furthermore, 
what course of diet will correct stomachic, nervous 
and intestinal disorders ; what to eat in hot weather, 
and what will supply fuel to the human system in 
mid-winter. 

The ignorance of nine-tenths of our otherwise in- 
telligent housekeepers upon the points I have indi- 
cated is appalling to one who has even a tolerable de- 
gree of familiarity with the remedial treasures stored 

331 



332 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

in nature's pharmacopoeia. It is not practicable in 
the limits of a single chapter to do more than hint 
sketchily of these treasures. The mother who makes 
this branch of medicine a study converts her market- 
basket into a dispensary, and constitutes herself the 
health officer of the district represented by her house- 
hold. 

Descending — or rising — to particulars, she will 
then know the curative properties of every-day prep- 
arations of vegetables and fruits, handled with habit- 
ual thoughtlessness and partaken of recklessly by 
those for whom she caters. For example, apple 
sauce, hominy, indian meal, mush and wheaten grits 
are excellent correctives of constipation, and should 
not be eaten by adult or child who has a tendency to 
laxness of bowels. Bice, boiled plain, or with milk, 
or made into gruel or jelly, heals irritated intestines, 
and comforts by coating the inflamed lining of the 
stomach. 

Boiled milk, when taken hot, is a gentle laxative. 
When allowed to cool, it binds instead of loosening. 
These facts should be better known. Even physi- 
cians, in prescribing boiled milk for patients suffer- 
ing from "summer complaint" or similar troubles, 
sometimes order boiled milk as a dietary without 
specifying the temperature. 

The value of celery as a nervine is known to com- 
paratively few. The hankering for it frequently 
felt by brain workers and "fidgety" women is set 
down as a whim, when it is, in fact, an eloquent point- 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDICA 333 

ing of nature to a specific. The same esculent is use- 
ful in cases of nervous dyspepsia and rheumatic gout. 
It should be fresh and crisp and be eaten freely. 

Onions are also an excellent nervine. They should 
be boiled in two waters and thoroughly cooked. 
For bilious disorders, influenza, insomnia and muddy 
complexions, their value as a steady diet can hardly 
be overrated. Lettuce is highly recommended for 
insomnia. A light meal of fresh lettuce, not too 
sharply seasoned, and thin brown bread and butter, 
eaten just before bedtime, will induce drowsiness 
when the doctor's soothing drafts have no effect. 

I have quoted elsewhere and more than once the 
title given to spinach by a renowned writer upon 
dietetics — "The Broom of the Human System." 
Its specific action is upon the blood. It is also a 
gentle laxative, and a solvent of biliary calculi, or 
gravel. It brightens the skin, as it contains iron, 
salts of potassium and other helpful ingredients. I 
remark regretfully, in passing, that this invaluable 
green vegetable is more frequently maltreated in the 
cooking than any other that comes upon our tables. 

Tomatoes move the liver, cool the blood, are easily 
digested by dyspeptics — in short, are invaluable in 
all classes of disorders for which old-fashioned doc- 
tors prescribed calomel. 

Asparagus, properly cooked, is easily digested and 
a gentle sudorific, acting upon the skin and inducing 
a flow of healthful perspiration. 

BJiubarb, or pieplant, should be eaten frequently 



334 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

by rheumatic sufferers, since it works directly upon 
the blood, cleansing it from the uric acid which pro- 
vokes rheumatism. 

Lemons are anti-bilious. A southern planter 
whose field-laborers and house servants were singu- 
larly free, year after year, from malarial fevers 
which scourged neighboring plantations, told me 
that he laid in lemons by the dozen boxes, dispensing 
them every day to his family and employees instead 
of administering quinine. A roasted or boiled 
lemon, filled while hot with sugar, and eaten still hot, 
just before retiring, will induce perspiration, relieve 
hoarseness, and often break up an incipient cold. 

Cranberries are almost a specific for erysipelas 
and for a tendency to scrofula. 

Figs are a well-known aperient, eaten fresh, dried 
or stewed. They are also recommended for cancer- 
ous diseases. 

Blackberries are a tonic and an astringent. 
Black raspberries and strawberries have a tendency 
in many cases to induce constipation, an effect caused 
by the seeds, not by the pulp. Mothers, mindful of 
this property, should exercise a wise supervision of 
their children's indulgence in small fruits. 

Peaches may be called a general regulator of the 
internal machinery of the human body. When ripe 
and sound, they may be eaten in incredible quanti- 
ties by the fruit lover. By a strange and beneficent 
double action, they correct constipation and as effec- 
tually brace and heal the too-lax intestines. 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDIOA 335 

Pood chemists rank currants among the most 
healthful of foods. They say that ninety-nine per 
cent, of the fruit is actual nutriment. It is not only 
invaluable as a body-builder, but it is highly recom- 
mended as a purifier of the blood. 

Fruits contain predigested food elements which do 
not clog the system, and are valuable in sustaining 
strength. Fruit acids cleanse the stomach and bow- 
els and are at the same time valuable as nutritive ele- 
ments of diet. They are foods and medicines, or 
foods which avert the necessity of medicine. 

Fruits of loose texture containing an abundance of 
water are the most digestible, while those varieties 
which are firm and compact are more difficult of di- 
gestion. The nutritive value may be less than that 
of vegetables, but the large amount of water, sugar, 
salts and organic acids they contain is useful in puri- 
fying the blood and also acts favorably upon the se- 
cretions of the body. As appetizers and stimulants 
they are invaluable and give variety to the diet. 

Fruit eaten before breakfast or at the meals helps 
to reduce the redness of the nose and otherwise im- 
proves the complexion. Care should be taken not to 
eat the skin or seeds or any other indigestible portion 
of the fruit. It must, of course, be perfectly ripe. 

No better name has ever been devised for the fresh 
vegetables with which summer is prodigal than that 
honored by Scriptural phrase as "the kindly fruits 
of the earth." "Kindly," because they satisfy the 
craving of the system for assuasive, cooling acids; 



336 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

they are fertile in phosphates, generally easily di- 
gested, laxative, and, best of all, are antidotes to bile 
engendered by summer heats. It will be remem- 
bered that the royal author of the most wonderful 
love-song ever written says — 

"As the apple-tree among the trees of the wood" 
(or orchard) "so is my beloved among the sons. I 
delighted" (as the marginal reading is) "and sat 
down under his shadow and his fruit was sweet to my 
taste. ' ' 

The like proud preeminence among fruits has been 
accorded to the King of Fruits by writers of- every 
age. Chemists and learned dietitians join in the 
chorus of praise. We are told in so many words that 
apples are the most valuable article of diet that comes 
to our tables, containing more phosphates in propor- 
tion to their bulk than any other food. A recent 
treatise upon the Apple by an English physician — 
a specialist in dietetics — advises us to "eat uncooked 
apples regularly, in moderation, and years will be 
added to your life while the evidences of age will be 
long in coming." 

And again — "Phosphoric acid" (in which apples 
are rich) "contains the least amount of earth-salts, 
and for that reason is probably the nearest approach 
to the Elixir of Life known to the scientific world." 

A brother-scientist "sees no reason why one who 
eats apples daily, ripe and uncooked, should not live 
and keep well until one has rounded out a century of 
human life." 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDIGA 337 

"An apple a day- 
Keeps the doctor away," 

says the old wives' couplet. 

A barrel of sound, ripe apples — when they are 
highest in price, costs less than three visits from the 
family physician and the bill of three prescriptions at 
the corner drug-shop, to say nothing of the woar 
and tear of anxiety and nursing upon the mother's 
nerves. It is not a week since I heard a grand- 
mother, whose vigor is a marvel to her large circle 
of friends, aver that she had not had occasion in fif- 
teen years to take an aperient. 

"Why should I?" she replied to the exclamation 
that met the assertion. "I eat an apple every night 
of my life, and often five or six during the day. 
They are my nervine, and my solace. They are anti- 
bilious, anti-scorbutic — in fact anti-all that is evil in 
the human system. " 

Some unfortunates can not digest apples — so I am 
told. But for a fair percentage of such idiosyncratic 
victims in every civilized community, the respectable 
druggist would starve, or go out of business. 

MEATS 

Personally, I am not what is usually known as a 
vegetarian. I believe that meat was given man for 
food. When I discourage the use of " heavy roasts" 
of beef, mutton and pork in summer, I would not shut 
out from the table the tender, juicy beefsteak (al- 
ways broiled, and never fried), the toothsome lamb 



338 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

or mutton chop, and broiled bacon, thin as writing 
paper, and just crimped by the fire. Partaken of in 
moderation, they are good for the service of man. 

A word as to roasts of beef, mutton and hot pork. 
Beef is a blood enricher, and with the other meats 
named is a heat-producer. These meats contain in 
larger quantity than any other foods carbon, and on 
this account are valuable for winter use. I need 
hardly say that the physique most in peril in the 
heated term is that usually known as the "full- 
blooded." The tendency of the bloody in plethoric 
people is to the cerebral vessels, distending them, 
and thus threatening, in excitement or unwonted ex- 
ercise, their rupture. Persons with the same phys- 
ical habit are more liable to fevers. 

Moreover, the fibers of these meats, especially of 
pork, are tough and difficult of digestion. The di- 
gestive system is relaxed by heat and less capable of 
assimilating heavy foods. As housekeepers we read- 
ily comprehend this when we recall how difficult it 
is to mince meat with a dull blade. Digestion is ac- 
complished by the combined action of the gastric 
juices and the muscles of the stomach. 

I wish I could impress upon my readers the abso- 
lute necessity of thorough mastication of food, thus 
simplifying the task submitted to the faithful and 
too often outraged stomach. In winter the whole 
system is braced — keyed up, if you have it — to its 
work. In summer — changing the figure — it is below 
concert pitch. 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDICA 339 

In summer also, on account of heat, and of inertia 
induced thereby, there is a disinclination to the reg- 
ular and more energetic exercise which one craves in 
the colder months. The effete matter, which is the 
residuum of undigested food, remains in the system 
instead of being thrown off. 

What are we to say as to hot breads, boiled pud- 
dings, dumplings and pies? Even under the most 
favorable conditions of temperature and bodily vigor 
they are slow and difficult of digestion. When the 
dog-star is raging, and all the active forces of the 
body are below par, the imposition of unnecessary 
labor upon the languid digestive organs is down- 
right cruelty. 

Fish is known as cold-blooded ; that is, deficient in 
the "red corpuscles," which have earned for flesh 
the term "hearty foods." Fish also contains whole- 
some phosphates, which neutralize in some degree 
the effect of fats. 

EGGS 

A correspondent affirms confidently that "two eggs 
contain more real nourishment than three pounds 
of meat. One person would get more nourishment 
from a piece of meat the size of his hand than he 
would from three pounds of it. The more meat, the 
less real good. Of course, one pound of meat does 
contain more stimulant (temporarily) than two eggs, 
but the eggs 'build up' and store energy, while the 
meat in a few hours has done its work of temporary 
stimulation." 



340 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

This is an individual opinion. The belief that 
eggs are wholesome for everybody is a fallacy which 
dietitians have difficulty in dispelling from the pop- 
ular mind. At least thirty per cent, of the yolk of 
an egg is oil, and the quantity of sulphur in the same 
is variously rated at from fifteen to twenty per cent. 
The cause of the variation is the difference in the 
comparative richness of eggs. Duck-eggs and the 
eggs laid by Guinea fowls are richer in fat and more 
heavily charged with sulphur than those of the com- 
mon barn-yard fowl. The eggs of certain breeds of 
these last also vary in quality. 

There is ground for the general idea that a diet of 
eggs engenders bile in persons who are predisposed 
to biliousness. It is likewise true, as is usually be- 
lieved, that soft-boiled eggs are more digestible than 
hard. The albumen of the white and the fats of the 
yolk are changed by long cooking into a firm mass, 
almost as hard for the gastric juices to assimilate 
as what is known as " white oak cheese," made of 
compressed and cooked curds. A raw egg is one of 
the most digestible of foods. It is not pleasant to 
taste, or to the imagination. Hence, it is usually 
beaten into an emulsion with milk, and sometimes, 
when a stimulant is needed, with wine. 

Next to the raw egg in wholesomeness, comes the 
"custard egg." To prepare it, lay it in lukewarm 
water for a minute to take the chill from the shell. 
Then put it into boiling water in a saucepan which 
is actually on the fire. As soon as the egg goes into 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDICA 341 

the water, lift the saucepan from the range ; envelop 
it in a thick warmed cloth, or slip a tea-cozy over it 
and let it stand on the table or at the side of the 
range where it can not possibly boil, for six or seven 
minutes. The contents of the shell will be like cus- 
tard in softness — white and yolk having cooked to 
equal consistency. 

This, to my way of thinking, is the most palatable 
form of the boiled egg, as it is certainly the most 
digestible. 

MILK 

Here again, comes in the question of digestive idio- 
syncrasy. Some persons, normally healthy, and not 
finical in tastes, can not drink what has grown into 
favor rapidly of late years under the title of the 
''one perfect food." Milk is said to combine all the 
elements of nutrition so harmoniously that non-di- 
gestion of it is impossible. Yet it does disagree — 
and seriously — with the stomachs of some who would 
fain drink it regularly and in quantities. It may be 
useful for such to know that people who are made 
bilious or otherwise uncomfortable by milk may cor- 
rect the trouble by adding a teaspoonful of lime- 
water to each tumblerful. It will not affect the taste 
of the milk. 

When milk disagrees with the baby, making him 
fretful, flatulent and colicky, add the lime-water to 
his bottle at each feeding. It will also correct the 
acidity of stomach that tends to produce "stomach 
rash." 



342 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

DIETARY FOR RHEUMATISM 

A wMlom sufferer hands in his brief testimony : 

"To those who suffer from rheumatism I would 
say that it is not necessary to take any remedy : that 
is, I have not found it so. Meat, coffee and sugar 
have an excessive quantity of uric acid. The remedy 
consists in taking less of them. Meat — once a day, 
or three times a week; coffee once a day, etc. One 
need not suffer for lack of things to eat. Milk, rice, 
eggs and well-cooked vegetables present opportuni- 
ties for sustenance and pleasure unhaunted by the 
fear of pain to follow. 

"One may find relief by eliminating from the di- 
etary sugar and milk and cream, together in any 
form, especially in tea and coffee. Either may be 
taken alone, but not at the same meal. A glass of 
pure water an hour before meal time; two meals a 
day of good cereal and hot milk, fruit, if wanted; a 
generous dinner of meat, vegetables, etc., will cure 
an aggravated and painful case of rheumatic trou- 
ble, as I can testify." 

Leave red meats, such as beef, and also dark meat 
of poultry, out of your dietary. 

There can be no doubt of the truth that diet in the 
treatment of rheumatism is three-fourths of the bat- 
tle. Avoid red meats — beef especially — sweets and 
starchy foods. Eat acid fruits, spinach, tomatoes 
and salads freely. Drink a good natural spring sul- 
phur water and do not touch spirituous liquors, ale 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDICA 343 

or wine. Wear red flannel next to the skin the year 
round — a lighter weight in summer, of course, but 
do not lay it off at any season. 

Albeit not a physician, I venture to advise in addi- 
tion to a judicious dietary, electrical massage, and 
"flushing" the system with some good natural min- 
eral water. Drink at least a quart a day of one pre- 
scribed by your doctor. I speak feelingly, having 
been restored to health and vigor, years ago, by the 
regimen I now indicate. The less medicine you take 
the better. 

DYSPEPSIA 

Dyspepsia has a hundred forms. It is the Proteus 
of mortal maladies. It is not practicable to indicate 
one-tenth of the phases that make existence a burden 
to the dyspeptic, or to suggest remedies except in a 
vague and sketchy style. It is the national disease, 
and our "strenuous," breathless life is largely re- 
sponsible for the plague. 

We are dyspeptics because we do not sufficiently 
masticate hard food; we eat too quickly; we drink 
too quickly, take too much fluid with our meals ; do 
hard brain work while eating. We take meals in 
snatches while attending to the shop, the children, 
etc. We partake largely of hot, greasy foods ; drink 
stewed tea charged with tannin ; we injure the stom- 
ach by drinking strong spirits. 

Tea, which contains much tannin, is peculiarly un- 
wholesome when taken with fresh meat. It is said 
not to affect the digestion of salted or smoked meats ; 



344 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

but that is merely saying that the two last can not be 
made worse than they are. 

No delicate stomach should be tortured by either. 
Salt hardens the fibers and dries up the juices of 
meats, and smoke adds creosote to hardness and des- 
iccation. 

Even tender, well-cured hams are rank poison to 
stomachs from which the coat has been worn by ex- 
cess of acids or overwork. Were I appealed to by 
that most wretched of invalids — a confirmed dyspep- 
tic — for counsel, common-sense, and therefore un- 
professional, I should say, with the depth of pity 
that often goes with profound personal ignorance of 
the pain one is called upon to assuage — Leave off 
drugs, and study your diet carefully. Avoid fats, 
fried foods, pastries — hot bread and pies of what- 
ever kind; eat plain puddings, custards, etc., in the 
way of sweets, and let candies alone. Eat slowly, 
and not heartily, but take nourishing meals at regu- 
lar hours. Live as much as possible in the open air. 
In the summer go into the house only to eat and sleep. 
Take regular but gentle exercise, like walking, in the 
open air. Have frequent massage and plenty of 
sleep. Bathe daily in water to which sea salt has 
been added, following this with a brisk rubbing down 
with a crash towel. If apples and oranges agree 
with you, take them freely and often. Peaches, too, 
in season, will be excellent for you. Avoid the skins 
of all fruits. 

I have had the unhappiness of knowing many dys- 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDICA 345 

peptics, some of whom were as savage as wild beasts 
under the affliction, and some who were thereby- 
chastened into saints. I have yet to see one who was 
cured, or even temporarily helped by medicines. 

If I had subjoined to the above list of recommen- 
dations a line from an old hymn — 

"And keep a quiet mind," — 

I should have struck a straight blow at what is the 
root of the evil in scores of cases. Eating fast in- 
vites dyspepsia, under any circumstances. When the 
food is bolted between snatches of excited conversa- 
tion upon painful or unpleasant subjects, or, worse 
yet, in gloomy silence, filled with somber thoughts 
and forebodings that change wholesome victuals to 
hot ashes in the stomach — diaphragm and gastric 
juices must suffer, although warranted to wear well 
and long. 

SOME SERVICEABLE SIMPLES 

The virtues of dried mullein leaves, smoked in a 
clay pipe, as tobacco is used, have long been known to 
the gatherers and venders of simples. They soothe 
an inflamed throat and relieve to some extent asth- 
matic breathing. 

It may be used in similar affections — such as bron- 
chial colds and coughs, steeped strongly, and sweet- 
ened with white sugar, and drank freely. Young 
or old plants are good dried in the shade and kept in 
clean bags. The medicine must be continued from 



346 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

three to six months, according to the nature of the 
disease. It is very good for the blood vessels also. 
It strengthens and builds up the system, instead of 
taking strength. It makes good blood, and takes 
inflammation away from the lungs. 

A contributor sends in a simple prescription to the 
efficacy of which I can bear cheerful testimony : 

"One of the most efficient remedies for breaking 
up a cold during its earliest stage is camphor. When 
the eyes begin to water and there is the accompany- 
ing tingling of the nose and feeling of chilliness, 
place three drops of camphor on a lump of loaf sugar 
and place the sugar in the mouth. Repeat this dose 
every fifteen minutes until four or five doses have 
been taken. At the same time place the feet where 
they will become thoroughly warm. This will usu- 
ally prove effectual in breaking up a cold, if it is 
taken at its very beginning. For a child but one drop 
should be placed upon the sugar, and five or six doses 
administered. Another method of taking the cam- 
phor, which is sometimes preferred for grown peo- 
ple, is to 'put a spoonful of sugar into a cup, add hot 
water, and from ten to fifteen drops of camphor. 
This makes what it is called a camphor julep. 

Camphor may be inhaled with excellent effect in 
the incipient stages of a cold in the head. Saturate 
a handkerchief and hold it to the nose, breathing 
through it for two minutes at a time. Repeat hourly 
all day. 

ITausea may be lessened and often cured by laying 



DOMESTIC MATERIA MEDIOA 347 

cloths steeped in spirits of camphor upon the pit of 
the stomach, renewing as they dry. 

Garden mint is a well-known remedy for disor- 
dered bowels, especially in children. Bruise sprays 
of mint slightly, put into a cup and pour boiling 
water over them. Leave until cold; strain without 
squeezing, and set on ice until needed. 

Virginia snake-root: The curative properties of 
the wild shrub have long been acknowledged by phy- 
sicians and housemotherly nurses. A decoction 
made by pouring boiling water upon the dried and 
shredded roots, allowing it to stand for an hour, then 
straining and sweetening abundantly is an excellent 
cough medicine. In a late issue of a medical journal 
we find mention of other and notable values. 

"As a nerve stimulant it acts promptly, and is 
much used in depressed or exhausted conditions of 
the nervous system, especially in typhoid, typhus, 
marsh and puerperal fevers. It is applicable in the 
latter stages of diphtheria, smallpox, scarlet fever 
and pneumonia. It supports the vital forces and 
rids the system of offending matter by producing 
perspiration and a determination of blood to the sur- 
face. A cold infusion is often employed with good 
effect in dyspepsia, croup, throat and kidney com- 
plaints. A cold infusion is used for strengthening 
purposes and it may be drunk freely. Dose of the 
tincture is from half to a full teaspoonful three times 
a day." 

Vegetable tonic and cough medicine: Wormwood, 



348 THE HOUSEKEEPEK'S WEEK 

licorice, black cherry bark, horehound, — equal parts 
of each. To these add two quarts of cold water ; let 
it simmer all day ; strain well and add a pound of loaf 
sugar and a pint of best rum. Bottle and take a 
wineglassful after each meal. 

Dandelion blooms: Put a handful of the blossoms 
into a pitcher, pour a pint of boiling water upon 
them, and steep, covered, for two hours. Strain off 
the tea, sweeten and drink ice-cold. It is good for 
disorders of the liver, as betrayed by headache and 
"spring fever." It may be taken hot for headache 
and nausea. 

Olive oil is highly approved by "the profession" 
as nourishing, easily digested and assuasive. It is a 
very gentle aperient, and a flesh-builder, working 
wonders with anaemic and emaciated children. It is 
said to be a nerve-food for their elders. 

The oil is taken in doses of a teaspoonful at first, 
three times a day. As the stomach becomes accus- 
tomed to it, increase the quantity to one tablespoon- 
ful taken three times a day. Disguise the taste with 
orange juice, or mix it with a few drops of pepper- 
mint. Perhaps the oil may not be unpleasant to you 
taken pure. Some learn to like it. Get the best 
quality. 

Parsley root: Scraped, steeped in boiling water, 
left to cool, strained, and sweetened slightly if de- 
sired — is given with signal success to relieve stran- 
gury, partial or total. 

Watermelon and pumpkin seeds are an approved 



DOMESTIC MATEEIA MEDICA 349 

remedy for like affections, especially with children. 
The seeds are steeped in boiling water and drunk as 
a xea. 

Sage leaves made into a tea, and sweetened abun- 
dantly with honey are a good gargle for a sore throat. 
If, to the decoction be added a little alum while the 
mixture is hot enough to dissolve the alum, the effi- 
cacy of the gargle is increased. 

Strawberry leaves: A decoction of strawberry 
leaves allowed to stand until cold, then strained, is 
healing to a sore mouth, be the cause a foul stomach, 
or what in babies is called "thrash." 

Plantain leaves: A poultice of green plantain 
leaves, scalded, and macerated into a pulp, is good 
for a felon or other sores arising from distempers 
of the blood. 

Flaxseed ground into meal, or used whole, may be 
wrought into one of the most useful poultices known 
to doctors and nurses in cases of inflammation of 
the throat or lungs. The flaxseed must be mixed 
with boiling water and renewed as it begins to cool. 

Cold tea is a cooling and healing eye-wash. 

Black coffee drunk hot and strong, often relieves 
nausea. It is an invaluable antidote to opium poi- 
son. 

Mustard: A standard antidote to arsenic, bella- 
donna and opium, indeed, to any poison that is not 
corrosive, is a mixture of ground mustard and water. 
It should be drunk freely, and until it acts as an 
emetic. 



350 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Raw eggs are likewise convenient and effective an- 
tidotes to certain active poisons, notably, corrosive 
sublimate. The victim should swallow them in rapid 
succession until vomiting is induced. They coat the 
inflamed alimentary canal with mucus that checks 
the action of the corrosive agent. 

Salt and water: A saturated solution of table salt 
is a quick emetic. It is well for the housemother to 
acquaint herself with the resources of her store-room 
to meet emergencies that befall the best kept homes. 
She will be amazed at the number of "First Aids" at 
her command. 

Olive oil, if swallowed immediately after the 
mouth, the throat and the stomach have been excori- 
ated by ammonia or cyanide of potassium, taken by 
mistake, will hold the evil in check until medical aid 
is procured. 

Sweet milk and lime-water is soothing to a burned 
mouth and throat after an incautious drink of a 
scalding fluid. 

Green figs are excellent for an obstinate boil. 
They are cut open and the pulp mixed in a basin. 
The poultice is warmed and spread upon linen, which 
is applied to the boil, and left in position for several 
hours. It "draws" the boil to a head. 

Stale tread and sweet milk: Moisten the crumbs 
into a soft paste with the milk, and stir until warm 
in a cup set in boiling water. A favorite and most 
useful poultice for boils and other "risings" which 
must come to a "head" before they can be relieved. 



CHAPTEE XXV 

DOMESTIC SURGERY AND COGNATE MATTERS 

Burns and scalds are, perhaps, the most common, 
as they are the most terrifying, of household casual- 
ties. In every kitchen, nursery and bath-room, 
should be kept labeled remedies for the disaster which 
always comes suddenly and is never expected, in 
spite of the frequency of previous mishaps of the 
same kind. 

Linseed-oil and lime-water form one of the best 
applications to a burned or scalded surface that cura- 
tive science has yet devised. Mix in a bottle two 
parts of oil with one part of lime-water, and shake 
well before using. The mixture should be kept in a 
cool place and corked closely. It will remain sweet 
for months. 

Castor-oil: An emulsion of castor-oil and water 
— three parts of oil and one of water — is also safe 
and soothing. I have known the oil to be applied 
to a fresh burn, with no admixture, in the surprise 
of the alarm, with satisfactory results. This is a 
mother's story of the experiment: 

"My baby had the hives, and obeying your pre- 

351 



352 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

scription, I was rubbing the eruption with castor-oil 
when a coal popped out from the wood fire by which 
we sat, directly upon the naked baby. It fell full 
into the crease between the abdomen and hips — thus 
making a double burn. Instinctively I snatched the 
bottle at my elbow, and poured some on the blister. 
The little fellow was in agony. So was I ! The ef- 
fect was magical. In the words of the old poem we 
read together when you and I were young — 

"The babe looked up and sweetly smiled." 

Henceforward castor-oil has had an honorable place 
in our list of 'Emergency Aids.' " 

Baking soda: From another housemother we 
have a tale of soda as a ready helper : 

"One day after filling a quart jar with grape jelly, 
the jar broke, spilling the entire contents on my left 
arm, from wrist to elbow. The jar had been heated 
thoroughly with hot water first. I at once ran to the 
pump and let the water wash the jelly off; then I 
covered the entire burn with baking soda, wetting the 
bandage after putting it on. The pain was dreadful ; 
the neighbors thought my arm would be ruined. In- 
stead of that it never even blistered, but healed in a 
short time without the least scar. 

"Sometimes for children's burns I mix the soda 
with enough lard to form a salve, as it is easier to 
apply when they can not keep still from pain, but I 
find just cold water and soda best." 

I have seen my cooks coat scalds with dry baking- 



DOMESTIC SURGERY 353 

soda, and obtain relief from the smart in an amaz- 
ingly short time. 

Dry flour: If the burns be covered thickly and 
immediately with dry flour, there is a partial and 
grateful cessation of the pain. The philosophical 
principle explaining this is, of course, that the air is 
excluded from the raw cuticle, and that the contact 
of the air is, in itself, poison. 

Wood soot and lard is an old-fashioned remedy for 
a burn, but one that is singularly efficacious. Soot 
and lard are beaten to a paste and spread on a cloth. 
Strange to say, they do not leave a black spot as the 
skin heals. 

Before quitting the subject of burns, I will give 
formulas for rendering clothing and curtains fire- 
proof, for both of which I am indebted to a friendly 
and an accomplished chemist. 

(1) "The following process has been used by a 
French chemist : Saturate the textiles in a solution 
composed of chloride of ammonium, 8 parts ; sodium 
hyposulphate, 2.25 parts ; sulphate of ammonium, 10 
parts; borax, 4.5 parts; water, 75.25 parts. Hang 
up to dry without wringing. 

(2) "Still another formula for fireproof cloth or 
any garment or wearing apparel is as follows : Dis- 
solve by gentle heat forty parts of boric acid, thirty 
parts aluminum sulphate, seventeen parts gum trag- 
acanth, nine parts potassium silicate, in 450 parts 
of water. Then make another solution of the fol- 
lowing constitution : Thirty parts of sodium nitrate, 



354 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

seven parts of ammonium borate, seventeen parts of 
ammonium phosphate, 400 parts of water. Mix 
both solutions and permit the mixture to subside and 
settle. Decant the clear solution, saturate the tex- 
tiles with it and hang them up to dry without wring- 
ing." 

FROST BITES 

If frost bites are taken in hand as soon as the in- 
jury is received, much unnecessary pain will be saved 
in the future. To a pint of kerosene or coal oil add 
a pound of gum camphor which has been broken into 
small bits. Shake this until dissolved and then add 
half a pint of sweet oil. Saturate a soft rag with 
the mixture and wrap the injured parts with it. Con- 
tinue this treatment for three days. BurnB also 
may be treated in this way. 

SNAKE — AND OTHER POISONOUS BITES 

Every mother should know that the first and best 
thing to. be done in the case of a bite from dog or cat 
or snake is to stop the circulation of the blood back- 
ward from the wound by a tight bandage and to 
plunge the injured part into warm water. Wash the 
wound out freely under the water faucet in the 
kitchen sink, or change the water as you cleanse the 
hurt, to get rid of the virus. If no water is at hand 
suck out the poison. Unless there be an abrasion on 
the lips or mouth it will do no harm. Many a life 
has been saved by this summary and homely means. 



DOMESTIC SURGERY 355 

Then apply table salt to the bite, rubbing in all it 
will hold. Should the salt turn green after a few 
minutes exchange for fresh and continue to do this, 
washing the wound out with warm water, dashed 
with carbolic acid, after each application, until the 
greenish tint passes away. 

In the "rattlesnake region" of Virginia and West 
Virginia, the specific for a snake-bite is whisky. 
The bitten person is given glass after glass of "moun- 
tain dew" until he becomes intoxicated. I suppose 
the explanation of the almost invariable success of 
the expedient to be that one poison expels the other. 
Certain it is that the sufferer awakes from his 
drunken sleep well, and has no more trouble from 
the wound. I have known too many cases of this 
sort which were cured by this homely and heroic 
treatment to doubt the wisdom of resorting to the 
whisky bottle if child or adult be bitten by a snake. 
A bottle of the best whisky I can buy is an invari- 
able feature in our country outfit. 

A CRUSHED FINGER OR TOE 

Should be plunged into water as hot as can possibly 
be borne. The application of hot water causes the 
nail to expand and soften and the blood pouring out 
beneath it has more room to flow; thus the pain is 
lessened. The finger should then be wrapped in a 
bread-and-water poultice. A jammed finger should 
never be neglected, as it may lead to blood-poison. 



356 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

A SPRAIN 

Get a pound of dried wormwood from the druggist 
and steep a handful of it in a pint of scalding vine- 
gar, keeping it hot by setting the vessel containing 
it in boiling water. Dip linen cloths in it and wrap 
the sprained member in them. Change the band- 
ages for hotter as they cool. When the vinegar runs 
low make a fresh supply of the wormwood decoction. 
Keep this up until pain and heat have abated. Then 
bind the ankle or wrist with strips of adhesive plas- 
ter to keep the injured ligaments in place until they 
knit firmly. 

Having had a desperately bad sprain treated as I 
have directed, and recovered the use of the joint and 
muscles within a couple of weeks, it is a pleasant 
duty to "pass on" the good news. 

A correspondent vouches for this simpler remedy 
for a sprain: 

"For a sprain beat together the white of one egg 
and a tablespoonful of table salt until you have a 
poultice. Apply to the sprained member — right on' 
the bare skin — change three times a day, and it will 
cure the worst sprained wrist or ankle in ten days, 
and no doctor's bill to pay. I have done it." 

WHEN A PIN IS SWALLOWED 

For the fortieth — I am not sure it is not the fiftieth 
time — the coadjutor whom I long ago dubbed grate- 
fully, "Our Courteous Consulting Chemist," is ready 



DOMESTIC SURGERY 357 

with an anecdote that is characteristically humorous 
and helpful : 

"I have a little friend with a fondness for a diet 
of nails and pins. Six times now the frantic mamma 
has rushed into my den and six times I have gently 
advised her to "stuff " the little kid with an exclusive 
diet of mashed potatoes, and no liquid whatever for 
about forty-eight hours. Then use plenty of nice 
castor-oil — no other laxative will do. The idea is to 
' surround the sharp object with a soft, innocuous 
mass, solidly, until the object has been pushed 
through the lower intestines. The doctors always ap- 
proved afterward of this. I mention the matter here 
for the information of mothers on farms, ranches, 
etc., not in quick touch with the usual professional 
wisdom. 

"Feed the kid in such a case excessive doses of 
mashed potato, or sweet potato and nothing else." 

The most ignorant of us who read the daily pa- 
pers is familiar with the word "encysted" from fre- 
quent repetition of it in stories of gunshot wounds. 
The mother should think of it as the one thing to be 
desired when a child has swallowed any hard sub- 
stance beyond the reach of her ready finger. If he 
can not bring it up, make it comparatively harmless 
where it is. If mashed potato is not ready to hand, 
make the child eat all the bread he can be induced to 
swallow. Corn bread is better for the purpose than 
wheat, and brown bread better -than white, because 
more viscous, 



358 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

FOR A CHOKED CHILD 

Slap him smartly between the shoulders, and if 
the concussion does not bring up the obstruction, pick 
him up incontinently by the heels, and holding him in 
the air, head downward, shake him hard. If this 
does not relieve him, nothing but a surgical operation 
will. 

SUNBURN 

Wring cloths out of water as hot as you can bear 
your hand in and hold them to your face, keeping 
up the applications — and keeping the water hot — 
until the fire seems drawn out of your face. Do 
the same to your arms and legs if you have exposed 
them too long to the hot sun while bathing. Sun- 
burn, contracted at the seashore is especially dis- 
tressing when bathers have yielded to the tempta- 
tion to frolic in the shallows in bathing costume. 
The skin is softened by the water, and the burn takes 
the form of a scald. After applying the hot water, 
powder the skin thickly with a bland talcum and 
leave it on for some hours. 

EARACHE 

Never be persuaded to put anything, not even 
warm water, into the ear except by direction of a 
physician. 

(1) The best way to relieve earache is to heat an 
iron or a brick, wrap it in two or three thicknesses 
of flannel and pour warm water and laudanum on 



DOMESTIC SURGERY 359 

the top, when steam will at once rise. If the ear is 
placed- close to the flannel, the steam will permeate 
every part of it. 

Mix a teaspoonful of laudanum in a cupful of 
water. Be careful not to take cold while the ear is 
warm from the steam. Bind a strip of warmed flan- 
nel over it until the flesh has regained normal tem- 
perature. 

THE EYES 

The ancient saw — already and repeatedly quoted 
— of the ounce of prevention, was never more pat 
than in this connection. We abuse our eyes in so 
many ways and with such stupid perversity that it 
is a miracle of Providence and mercy we are not a 
purblind nation. Oculists who value human happi- 
ness more than the repletion of their own pockets, 
Warn us that electric lights, now illuminating thou- 
sands of homes, are pernicious to the eyesight unless 
steadied by lamplight or by gas burners. The loop 
of electric light is a series of flashes — electric sparks 
— as unsteady as brilliant. To study or write ha- 
bitually by this alone will, in time, injure the strong- 
est eyes ever set in human skull. Tempered and 
steadied by the more stable flame of a lamp or the 
even glow of gas, it does comparatively little harm. 

The eyes should never be used when they are tired 
or weak from illness, nor should they be exposed to 
intense light at any time. The light should always 
fall on the work or book over the left shoulder. 

An ingenious writer upon correlation of forces tells 



360 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

us that to read, or write, or to employ the eyes in 
other ways requiring close application, when one is 
fasting, is a strain upon nervous energy equivalent 
to lifting a weight of thirty pounds. Whether his 
computation be correct or erroneous, it is certain that 
the prudent student will not work fasting. If you 
read or write before breaking your all-night fast you 
will, in time, rue it. Eat enough to keep the blood 
away from the brain, leaving it free to do its proper 
work. 

Whenever the eyes ache from strain of whatever 
kind, bathe them frequently and freely in water as 
hot as may be comfortably borne. If they smart and 
are bloodshot, add a pinch of boric powder to a glass 
of hot water and bathe them several times daily with 
the wash, abundantly upon rising in the morning and 
retiring at night. 

If you wear glasses do not let them press upon 
the eyes. They will, eventually, flatten the cornea, 
heightening the defect you seek to lessen. 

Dotted veils have a bad effect on the strongest eyes. 
A good wash for eyes when inflamed from cold or 
loss of sleep is one ounce of distilled witch-hazel and 
one ounce of pure water. 

For inflamed eyelids soak a handful of camomile 
flowers in one pint of boiling water for five minutes. 
Strain and use as a wash, when tepid. Dry on a soft 
towel and touch the lids with an ointment made of 
one part of oil of birch and nine parts of white vase- 
line. 



DOMESTIC SURGERY 361 

Fresh, parsley, boiled, will often cure inflammation 
of the eyes, if they are bathed with it. If the inflam- 
mation be very bad, make a poultice of the pulp at 
night and renew until the eyes are cured. 

THE FEET 

Cold feet, as a rule, are due to bad circulation, but 
very often are caused by the footwear. Socks, if not 
changed frequently and kept clean, are a cause of 
coldness. Woolen socks, cork soles inside the boots, 
and thick, substantial soled boots will do away, in 
many cases, with the trouble. 

Bunions : I have known the following simple regi- 
men to relieve cases of long standing : Soak the foot 
night and morning in warm water. Wipe dry and 
rub vaseline into the bunion, leaving it to dry on the 
foot. Then fit a bunion plaster — a thin one — about 
the inflamed part, binding into place with a strip of 
adhesive plaster. Adjust the bunion plaster so that 
the shoe will not press upon the foot. The pressure 
is the cause of the evil. Persevere in the treatment. 

Corns: Treat precisely as you would bunions. 
The same cause produces both. Our superiors in 
civilization for many centuries — the Japanese — have 
taught us the use and the safety of the corn file. A 1 
corn or a bunion should never be cut with a knife or 
other sharp instrument. Deaths have been caused 
by such imprudence. 

A good poultice for corns is one teaspoonful of tar, 
one teaspoonful of coarse brown sugar and one tea- 



362 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

spoonful of saltpetre. The whole to be warmed to- 
gether. Spread it on bits of kid the size of the corn. 

Callosities on the feet: A physician sends me the 
following : 

"Take glacial acetic acid at fifty degrees (not or- 
dinary acetic acid) and dilute in the proportion of 
three to four parts of acid to one of water. Apply 
the mixture with a small sponge fastened on the end 
of a stick, nightly, until the callous peels off. As a 
skin renovator this mixture is unexcelled. It will 
remove a calloused area around the finger nails if 
the sponge be handled with the fingers. The fingers 
may feel sore for a day or two, but no harm is done 
and the sense of touch is improved." 

A laywoman offers a simpler regimen : 

"If sufferers from callous spots would rub a few 
drops of castor oil on them twice a day for a few 
days, I think they would be delighted with the result. 
Continued use of the oil will in time effect a complete 
cure. My own feet were extremely painful. The 
oil was the last remedy I tried, and the only one that 
did me any good. It is a little slow but sure." 

Tired, aching and sore feet: If the feet are tired 
and painful with long standing they will feel much 
rested if bathed in salt water, and if after washing 
salt is rubbed over them it will close the pores and 
keep the skin soft. The addition of a teaspoonful of 
alum dissolved in a little hot Water to the salt bath 
will help the cure. 



DOMESTIC SURGEKY 363 

Or — better still — mix twenty drops of carbolic 
acid with four ounces of alcohol ; pour a little in the 
palm of the hand and rub the soles of the feet with 
it night and morning. 

Alcohol alone will often bring surcease of pain. 

An ingrowing nail: A quartet of grateful women 
declare that this is a "sure thing." 

For ingrowing nails — remove the shoe and stock- 
ing; put a piece of paper under the foot; heat a 
spoonful of tallow and pour it in and around the 
nail once or twice a day, until relief comes, which 
will be in a few days. If you haven't mutton tallow, 
lard will do, or any kind of fat and just as hot as it 
can be borne. There are two reasons for trying this 
cure — first, because it is simple, and second, because 
it is a sure cure. The paper under the foot is simply 
to keep the grease from the floor. 

One of the four adds — "It seems to kill the pain 
and tenderness at once, and in a few days the granu- 
lations all go, leaving the nail in -a position to be 
easily pared away. One application helped mine to 
such an extent that I no longer live in dread of hav- 
ing a heel firmly planted upon them in a crowded 
car." 

Scrape the nail very thin, and make in the center 
— just over the ball of the toe — a V-shaped incision. 
The nail, in closing this up, will draw away from the 
sides of the toe, as it grows, and pull itself into 
bounds. 



364 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

CHILBLAINS 

(1) Por chilblains use one teaspoonful of alum to 
a little water and bathe the chilblains in that. It 
gives instant relief when the terrible itching and in- 
flammation set in. 

(2) For unbroken chilblains rubbing with damp 
salt is one of the best remedies known. 

(3) Raw onion rubbed on an annoying chilblain is 
very soothing. 

Of my own self I can say nothing, I never had si, 
chilblain, or saw one to my knowledge. Those who 
have had, and cured them, lay these remedies to my 
hand. 

POISONS OF THE SKIN 

Of the much-dreaded eczema — otherwise "the 
itch" — an intelligent woman writes: 

(1) "Eczema is so common and so hard to treat 
that many may be helped by my letter. The remedy 
is an ointment, the most important ingredient of 
which is the rankest weed that grows, commonly 
called 'jimson,' a perversion of 'Jamestown weed,' 
and can be found from now until frost comes. This 
grows in lots where manure has been thrown, is called 
poisonous, and no animal will ever eat it. 

"Formula: — Buy at the drug store one pound of 
pure beeswax, which costs forty-five cents, and a piece 
of resin about the size of a hickory-nut. At the 
market get two pounds of mutton tallow and try it 
out; then go after the weed. Cut the whole plant 



DOMESTIC STJEGERY 365 

near the ground and get as many as one can carry- 
under an arm, or, say, a dozen stalks. Put the boiler 
on the range and clip off all the bunches of leaves, 
discarding only the heavy stalks. Pour over the 
leaves a quart and a half (no more) of cold water, 
cover, and let all boil for thirty minutes. Strain 
through a colander into a large stew-pan. Strain the 
liquid, of which there should be about a quart, 
through a cheese-cloth to take out all sand, etc. Put 
back into the stew-pan with the tallow and beeswax 
cut into small pieces, and the little piece of resin. 
Let all boil for twenty minutes, then pour into a 
small bowl and cool. 

"The ointment will be on top and will look like 
yellow soap. Lift it out of the dish and throw away 
the liquid remaining. Cut into pieces and put away. 
The relief will be immediate and a cure in two or 
three weeks. If the ointment seems too hard it will 
soften from the warmth of the hand. 

"I have made it and it has done more than I hoped 
it would. I trust others may find the same relief. 
It is good for cuts, burns, bruises and aching feet, 
say the good people who told me how to make it. ' ' 

"Away Down South in Dixie" the curative prop- 
erties of "jimson" (Jamestown) ointment have been 
well known since it was named by the earliest settlers 
from the marshy peninsula on which it grew in the 
days of John Smith and Pocahontas. It was a fa- 
vorite remedy with the Indians. 

(2) An unpleasant itching of the ears is usually 



.366 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

caused by eczema. Those who are subject to this 
ailment should eat quantities of fruit, watercress, 
dandelion, lettuce, etc. Eor a local application' a 
weak dilution of carbolic acid is healing and agree- 
able, or listerine diluted one-half with water will allay 
the fearful irritation of eczema. It is always best 
of course, to consult a specialist, since the trouble 
may be a serious one that in time will affect the hear- 
ing. 

(3) Bathe the parts well with warm water, in 
which has been dissolved a little boracic acid: dry 
thoroughly with a soft towel. Do not irritate the 
skin by hard rubbing. Then apply listerine. At 
night use wintergreen oil; if possible bind up the 
parts with a cloth saturated with the oil. 

In the morning this may be washed off, as de- 
scribed above. If soap be necessary use the purest 
Castile after which powder well with borated talcum 
powder. If the disease is deep-seated, repeat the 
process more frequently. Perfect cleanliness is the 
best remedy for any skin disease. If this does not 
prove effectual, consult a physician at once, for ec- 
zema is a very stubborn disease if not treated in the 
early stages. 

Poison-ivy: "The first effect of poison-ivy is to 
raise watery blisters on that portion of the body 
which has been poisoned. In the course of a few 
days these blisters dry up or sink in and the painful, 
itching eruption commonly dreaded follows. If upon 
the appearance of the above-mentioned watery blis- 



DOMESTIC SURGERY 367 

ters the victim will at once apply a strong solution 
of any alkali, by rubbing vigorously into the affected 
parts, they will immediately disappear and no further 
consequences may be dreaded. This remedy is not 
efficacious if the poison is not arrested while in its 
first stages of watery blisters. 

"The commonest form of alkali that I know of l 
would be ordinary cooking soda dissolved in either 
cold or warm water. This remedy is well known to 
most frontiersmen and those whose lives are such as 
to expose them frequently to poison-oak." 

This is one of a dozen suggested remedies spread 
out upon my desk. I choose what seems to me the 
most judicious. Alkalis, notably soda, are specifies 
in the management of wasp, bee and hornet stings, 
and the more frequent and less dangerous bite of the 
mosquito. It is probable that it might heal mild 
eruptions caused by poison-ivy, alias mercury, alias 
poison-oak, alias "three finger." We all know it by 
sight, by whatsoever name it may go in any particu- 
lar region. 

A serviceable simple overlooked in our enumera- 
tion of the items composing the Domestic Materia 
Medica comes to light in our next prescription: 

"The bark of sassafras root steeped in water to a 
strong tea and used as a wash in case of ivy poison- 
ing is considered in our family as the remedy. It 
allays the irritation and itching of the skin. It is 
good to take a swallow of the tea at the same time, as 
sassafras is a blood renovator." 



368 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

'As a blood renovator it held high" rank in the es- 
teem of our forebears. Sassafras tea was drunk by 
the quart as a spring medicine, and recommended as 
a sudorific for breaking up a cold. 

Here is a warranted remedy for ivy poisoning : 

One-half ounce of pure crude opium. Dissolve 
this in water until the water looks like strong coffee. 
Thoroughly wet the poisoned parts with this liquor 
once an hour for six hours and once in two or three 
hours for the next eighteen hours. This applies to 
poison sumac, ivy and oak. 

Thirty years ago the "capable" mistress of a New 
Jersey farmstead told me of a domestic treatment 
of the distressing eruption which I have tried with 
complete success in my own family several times. 
It has the merit of being easy, cheap and harmless. 

Bathe the affected parts often during the day and 
bind up at night with sour buttermilk or lopper 
milk, into which plenty of salt has been stirred. 

A solution of sugar of lead to be obtained from 
any druggist, is also good for the eruption. Should 
it be severe and general, apply to a doctor for a cool- 
ing medicine for the blood as well. 

Hives: The worst cases of hives I have ever 
known — and they were very severe and extensive — 
were cured by lubrication of the affected parts with 
pure castor oil. If the cutaneous irritation were ac- 
companied by nausea, showing that the lining of the 
stomach was likewise affected, calcined magnesia was 
given internally. 



DOMESTIC SURGERY 369 

Pricldy heat : Bathe the eruption freely with skim 
milk slightly diluted with water. Do this before re- 
tiring at night, and hourly during the day if the 
irritation be intense. 

Bruised lettuce leaves are cooling and curative to 
a fevered or itching skin. Bind upon the affected 
parts with old linen bandages. 

Warts: Acetic acid, applied properly and per- 
sistently, will remove the most tenacious of warts. 
This is the proper way: Take the clean end of a 
dead match or any small piece of wood and dip it in 
the acid. On removing it there will be found about 
a drop clinging. Apply, or rather allow this to drop 
on the wart, which, being porous, will soon absorb 
it. Do this every day to each wart, being careful to 
have the hand or any part held perfectly still. 

A domestic remedy, to the excellence of which I 
can bear witness, is a paste of baking soda and water 
applied to the wart and bound in place. Renew as 
it dries. 

A homely application that is well spoken of is thus 
described by a grateful convalescent : 

"A sure cure for warts is to touch them every 
morning with fasting saliva. An acid in this remedy 
kills them without leaving a scar." 

TO PREVENT VOMITING AFTER THE USE OF ETHER OR 
CHLOROFORM 

No matter how much or for how long the anes- 
thetic has been given, a cloth or absorbent cotton sat- 
urated in vinegar and held tight to the nose— patient 
inhaling it— will stop this trouble. 



CHAPTER XXVI 



THE CAKE OE THE SICK 



"What kind of an education would I give a daugh- 
ter if I had one?" said a discriminating lawyer of- 
my acquaintance in answer to my query. "I should 
send her to Packer's for a year or two to study do- 
mestic training so that she might be a good house- 
keeper. On top of that I would have her two years 
in a good New York boarding-school that she might 
gain something of that indefinably charming thing 
called 'style' as well as mental development. And 
then I believe I'd send her for three or four weeks' 
training before her 'coming-out tea' to a good trained 
nurse in order that she might have the rudiments of 
skilful care of the sick." 

This struck me at the minute as a somewhat mis- 
cellaneous hodge-podge of an educational scheme. 
Later I thought better of it. And particularly the 
last clause engaged my attention. ' ' Isn 't it decidedly 
important," I said to myself, "that the average girl 
should know something of nursing?" and I could an- 
swer the question only in the affirmative. 

Particularly is it necessary when the income of a 
family is small that some one in it should know how 

370 



CAEE OF THE SICK 371 

to care skilfully, with the least labor and the great- 
est return for that labor, for the sick. Trained 
nurses, except in cases of serious illness, are, for the 
most of us, a luxury. For minor ills we can not af- 
ford them and not all of us, even in times of great 
distress. 

Under the best of circumstances a season of illness 
is a trying one. It means mental anxiety ; it means 
rearrangement of the domestic economy ; it means a 
thousand unaccustomed steps and unusual activities. 
If there is some one in the house acquainted with 
even a few of the fundamental rules for taking care 
of the sick, for making the routine of the sick-room 
more bearable for invalid and care-taker, then it 
goes without saying that not only is the recovery of 
the loved one exactly that much quicker but the gen- 
eral life of the house is helped. 

In no branch of home-keeping is an orderly and 
systematic arrangement of duties more necessary 
than in the sick-room both for the sake of the patient 
and to save the strength of the nurse. Unexpected 
tasks, of course, will arise but there should be a plan 
for the every-day care of invalid and room. To 
supply a few of the simpler rules for such care is 
the object of this chapter. 

THE ROOM 

The room chosen for the invalid should be, of 
eourse, the best in the house, as regards light and ven- 
tilation. If it is near a'bath-room many steps will be 



372 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

saved. People who are sick for a long time or those 
ill with nervous affections, which often means the 
same thing, are particularly sensitive to any glaring 
or decided effect in the wall-paper. If possible, 
choose a room where the coloring is soft or neutral 
and the pattern of the paper, if pattern there be, is 
vague and indistinct. It is one of the principles of 
the Rest Cure system, for which the celebrated Doc- 
tor Weir Mitchell is largely responsible, to keep the 
walls of a room as far as possible a blank, — free from 
pictures and other ornaments that distract or tease 
the mind. The character of the illness in question 
should, however, determine this point, common sense 
being here as elsewhere a mainstay. 

Generally speaking the room should be left free 
from superfluous furnishings, both on account of the 
mental and physical health of the patient and because 
absence of the unnecessary means less of care for 
the nurse. Dispense with heavy hangings and dra- 
peries, the fripperies of the dressing-table, all rugs 
but those absolutely necessary for comfort and to 
deaden noise. 

The bed is the most important item of the neces- 
sary furnishings. It should have upon it a firm, 
smooth hair mattress. The mattress is the founda- 
tion of the invalid's comfort. If there is a depres- 
sion in the one that must be used, fold a blanket 
smoothly and put it in the hollow. If every person 
occupying a double bed was taught to occupy alter- 
nately the two sides of the bed, we should not meet 



CARE OF THE SICK 373 

so often with what is in two senses depressing hol- 
lows in our mattresses. 

Position of the bed: The bed should be placed a 
little out from the wall so that the air may play all 
around it. It should not be placed opposite a window 
where the light will be directly in the patient's eyes. 
The mattress should be covered with a bed pad, the 
lower sheet drawn smoothly and firmly over it. The 
upper sheet should be put on more loosely and easily 
to give free play to the body of the patient and enough 
length should be left at the top to fold down over 
the coverings. These should be blankets as they are 
much lighter than other coverings and contain more 
warmth. The spread should be of a light texture, 
not such as to cause extra weight upon the patient. 

The screen is part of the necessary furnishing of 
every sick-room. It is needed to protect the patient 
when the cleaning of the room is going on and to 
shield him from draft when the room is being aired. 
An emergency screen can be made by pinning a sheet 
over a clothes-horse. 

Medicine table: A separate table should be used 
for medicines, dropper, glasses, etc. This should 
have a marble top if possible so that it may be washed 
free of stains when necessary. As soon as the 
medicine bottle is empty or the physician prescribes 
a new drug, rid the table of the superfluous bottle 
or box. Too great care can not be taken to keep 
the drugs necessary in a sick-room properly sepa- 
rated and in order. 



374 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

Light: Among many old-fashioned people there 
is an idea that a sick-room should be always dark. 
This is false. Sunlight is one of the most healing, 
health-giving agents we have and, though care 
should be taken not to excite a person by too much 
light, or to injure weakened eyes by the same, sun- 
light should be administered as the patient can bear 
it. 

FRESH AIR 

Fresh air is of course even more necessary than 
sunlight and should be admitted into the room every 
day. In winter or when the patient is much weak- 
ened by long illness or when the disease is one that is 
particularly sensitive to changes of temperature, such 
as bronchitis, pneumonia and other diseases of a like 
character, great care must be taken when a decided 
change of air is made. In such cases it is well to 
open a window in an adjoining room, flooding it with 
fresh air while the connecting door is closed. Then 
put down the windows, wait until the air is somewhat 
warm, then open the connecting door for its admis- 
sion into the invalid's room. 

Generally speaking the ventilation may come from 
the patient's own room. Leave one window or two 
facing each other, two or three inches down from the 
top. The cold air descends and forces out the warmer 
air and yet causes no draft upon the patient. When 
the room, night and morning, is given a thorough 
airing, wrap the patient in extra blankets, putting 
something over the head and place the screen so 



CARE OF THE SICK 375 

as to shield the bed from a direct current of air. 
Having made these preparations throw the window 
wide open, your common sense and the weather di- 
recting you how long to keep it so. 

CLEANING OF THE SICK-ROOM 

The sick-room should be cleaned without bustle or 
stir. The screen again comes in good play here. If 
placed before the patient while the refurbishing of 
the room is in progress, he need scarcely sense the 
disturbance. If the room has a carpet — which 
Heaven forbid! — sweep softly with a dampened 
broom; if a wooden floor, use a broom cloth that is 
slightly wet. The dusting also should be done with 
a slightly dampened cloth. 

FLOWERS IN THE SICK-ROOM 

Sometimes flowers bring cheer and comfort to the 
patient ; sometimes they are an unhealthful influence. 
When they are, and when they are not for the good 
of the patient can be settled only by the individual. 
But in no case should they be left in the sick-room' 
over night. 

INVALID'S REFRIGERATOR 

One of the luxuries of a sick-room is the invalid's 
refrigerator where milk, water and other necessaries 
of the sick-room may be kept. In default of this, 
ice may be wrapped in an old blanket or woolen gar- 
ment of any kind and placed in a dish-pan with the 



376 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

articles that need cooling about it. Milk and water, 
if kept in a sick-room, should be covered, as they are 
very sensitive to odor and atmosphere. 

SOILED CLOTHING AND EVACUATIONS 

A good nurse will lose no time in getting soiled 
clothing out of the way and in disposing of evacua- 
tions. A satisfactory disinfectant should be always 
at hand. Chloride of lime can be recommended. 
The vessels used by the patient should be washed out 
as soon as possible with soap, hot water and am- 
monia. 

KEEP THE PATIENT COMFORTABLE 

Two nightgowns should be kept in use, one for the 
day and one for the night. It is amazing how much 
more inclined to slumber a sick person feels with a 
change of gown just before the lights are turned low 
or out. Plenty of pillows should be on hand and 
these of various sizes, ready for use when the patient 
craves a change of position. Pillows should be 
turned often to keep them from getting hard and 
lumpy to the touch. 

Extra blankets: In serious cases always have ex- 
tra blankets ready for that change of temperature in 
the weather which is sure to come between three and 
five o'clock in the morning. Then is the coldest time 
of the day or night and it is also the time when the 
patient's vital energies are at their lowest. A pro- 
fessional nurse always has her eyes particularly wide 



CARE OP THE SICK 377 

open for the comfort and safety of her patient at 
that time. 

The hot-water bag should always be conveniently 
at hand. Its uses are too well known to make any 
mention of them necessary. Suffice it to say that 
the use of it can never do any harm and often, in the 
case of emergency and where other remedies are not 
convenient, does incalculable good. 

Changing the sheets while the patient is in the led: 
To one who sees for the first time the professional 
nurse's touch in changing sheets while the patient is 
in bed, the accomplishment seems nothing short of 
miraculous and, for many succeeding times, it may 
have that interest for one which arises out of any 
specially skilful piece of work. The writer herself 
well remembers in a long spell of typhoid fever the 
entertainment afforded her by watching the nurse 
perform this part of her duty. The novelty of ob- 
serving the performance did not wear off for a long 
time and the time of its happening was looked for- 
ward to as a bright spot in the, for the most part, 
dreary days. 

The amateur home nurse should not undertake this 
feat without previous practise. She should try it 
first with a well person as subject or take some prac- 
tical instruction from a nurse. The following direc- 
tions for the process are the correct ones, but they 
should be supplemented by the skill that comes from 
practise. First change the lower sheet. To do this, 
roll the patient toward the side of the bed away from 



378 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

you. Turn the soiled sheet in smooth folds toward 
the center of the bed and close to the patient. Then 
spread jour clean sheet over the half of the bed thus 
prepared for, laying the folds of the other half over 
the folds of the soiled sheet. Turn the sick one care- 
fully back to his first position, pull out the soiled 
sheet and make smooth and firm the clean sheet over 
the other half of the bed. 

To change the upper sheet, make free the bed- 
clothes all about, turning them slightly back from the 
foot of the bed but so as not to expose the patient. 
Have a blanket and clean sheet ready and place them 
upon top of the spread. Then, while you hold these 
firmly up to the neck of the patient with one hand, 
draw the soiled sheet and other covering out from 
beneath with the other hand. Replace the necessary 
covers on top of the fresh blanket. If you are skil- 
ful in this performance the patient will not be weary 
from it. 

No wrinkles and no crumbs: Three golden rules 
about the care of the bed are perfect cleanliness, no 
wrinkles and no crumbs. Invalids, much more than 
well people, are sensitive to any unevennesses, folds 
or bumps in the sheet or bed pad. The nurse should 
make it her business to keep wrinkles smoothed out 
and crumbs brushed off. 

The invalid's dining table: One of the luxuries of 
the sick-room is an invalid's dining table which 
stands on a support placed at one end of the table 
while the other draws over the bed at a height ex- 



CARE OF THE SICK 379 

actly convenient to the invalid's hand. Such a table 
not only renders eating more easy and agreeable for 
the invalid but it saves the bed from crumbs and the 
danger of soil. 

Care of hair and teeth: Every day the invalid's 
hair should be combed, his teeth washed, his finger- 
nails cleaned. Whether a bath should be given every 
day will depend upon the nature of the disease. Es- 
pecial care should be given to the teeth during illness 
as the medicines used often have a tendency to in- 
jure them. 

Visitors in the sick-room: In rural districts the 
house which contains a sick person is beset by visit- 
ors. The patient is supposed to have nothing to do 
but to entertain company and the refusal to see a 
friend is regarded as an insult. This is humorous as 
an illustration of the quirks in the rustic mind, but 
it is tragic for the sufferer. Even in towns of some 
size people will be found who think that they should 
always be permitted to visit the sick-rooms of their 
friends. The truth is that, in a case of illness, which 
is at all serious, visitors should be the exception, and 
no one should feel offended at being excluded from 
the sick-room. Such calls as are made should be 
short ones. If the nurse sees signs of fatigue in her 
patient she should indicate tp visitors that the time 
for their departure has arrived. They should not 
sit on the bed; they should sit where the patient may 
see them without effort. They should not talk of dis- 
ease and the patient's symptoms during their stay. 



380 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

CARE OF THE PATIENT'S MENTAL AND MORAL COMFORT 

The person who has an invalid in charge must al- 
ways remember that the state of the mind has much 
to do with that of the body and that, as a preliminary 
to the care of the body and as a stimulant to its 
speedy recovery, everything possible must be done 
to keep the temper of the mind calm and equable. 
Discussions of illness, except in so far as is necessary 
to the proper treatment of the patient, should be ban- 
ished from the sick-room. The nurse should sternly 
repress her own nervousness and anxiety. One rea- 
son that a professional nurse, aside from her skill, 
is often more helpful than a home nurse, is that the 
feelings of the former, not being engaged to any con- 
siderable extent, she bears herself evenly. The first 
lesson for the home nurse to learn is self-control, the 
kind of cheerfulness that comes from a conquest of 
self in the interest of the suffering. 

Natural manner in a sick-room: Adopt as far as 
possible an easy, matter-of-course air in the sick- 
room. Walk lightly but not conspicuously on the 
tips of your toes. Speak in a low tone but don't 
whisper. Don 't be frivolous in manner but don 't look 
portentous. If possible, let the patient feel that the 
every-day affairs and work of the house are going 
on regularly and smoothly. There is nothing more 
soothing to the mind than the feeling that the estab- 
lished order is maintaining itself. 

In short let your manner in the sick-room be as 



CAEE OF THE SICK 381 

easy and natural as possible. Physicians know the 
value of this. An instance of the value in which it 
is held by them occurs to my mind as I write. The 
picture rises in my mind of a young girl painfully 
agitated over the serious illness of her mother and 
frowning upon the professional nurse and the doctor 
as they talked cheerfully in a low tone while prepar- 
ing the medicines for the patient. I see the old phy- 
sician with his keen eyes penetrating the girl's vexa- 
tion and the cause of it. "We are not disturbing 
your mother," he said. " The sound of natural 
every-day conversation is a helpful influence and will 
do her good." Whether talk is allowed in the sick- 
room or no, the rule always holds, — "let your manner 
there be easy and natural. ' ' 



CHAPTER XXVII 

AFTERMATH 

Since the preceding chapters were written such a 
goodly aftermath of available and useful items has 
sprung up about me that I am constrained to reap 
and garner them for the benefit of those I would help. 

Were I to call this afterword an "Appendix" no- 
body would read it. I prefer to bind up the slender 
bundle with sister sheaves and secure for it house- 
wifely recognition. 

If it be made up of divers sorts of grain, my ex- 
cuse is that some of the seeds have been blown into 
my meadow by vagrant winds and from unknown 
quarters. So long as they are sound and nutritious, 
what matter whence they came % 

HOUSEWIFELY HINTS 

Women who have not discarded the serviceable 
rag carpet in kitchen and laundry, may be glad to 
know that it may be washed on the floor so long as it 
is not worn badly in body and surface. And this, al- 
though it may be vulgarly and apparently hopelessly 
dirty. 

Choose a fine, windy day, when John and the boys 
are safely off to work and to school, for the opera- 

382 



AFTEKMATH 383 

tion. Shave a bar of old white soap into a pail of 
hot water, churn it to suds and stir in a cup of gaso- 
line. (Have no fire in the room.) 

In another pail, close at hand, have plenty of clean 
hot water for rinsing. You should be provided with 
a new, strong scrubbing brush and an abundance of 
clean, soft cloths. When everything is in order, 
scrub that carpet as you would a floor, but with less 
slopping. Wash a space the width of a breadth and 
a foot wide, rinse quickly and wipe as dry as you can 
get it before taking the brush in hand for another 
scrub. Proceed in this way until you have been over 
the whole carpet. Rub the badly soiled parts hard, 
applying the suds several times before rinsing. 

The floor will be dry in an astonishingly short time, 
if you have not been too lavish with the water. 

Leave windows and doors open, and let the air and 
sunshine do the rest. 

To remove stains from blankets : Make a mixture 
of equal parts of glycerin and yolk of egg. Spread 
it on the stain, leave it for half an hour, then wash 
as usual. 

To polish trass: A capital preparation for polish- 
ing brasses is the red pomade sold for cleaning cop- 
per and brass, used with a flannel cloth, previously 
wrung out in kerosene. The effect is magical. The 
brass rails, rods and other mountings of steamers 
and ferry boats are polished with this. 

For brass beds no polishing powders nor liquids 
should be employed, the brass requiring nothing more 



384 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

than a rubbing with a soft rag to keep it looking 
bright. After the lacquer is scratched by powders 
it will be a task to keep the brass in anything like 
good condition. The lacquer is not meant to be 
scrubbed, but is intended to protect the brass from 
tarnishing through action of the air. 

Green 'brooms: Brooms of green straw do not 
wear as well as those of the natural color, so do not 
buy them under the impression that they will outlast 
others. 

When bureau drawers stick in the grooves: Rub 
soap over their edges. If that does not remedy the 
trouble, use fine sandpaper. 

To wash chamois skins: Squeeze the leather in 
warm soap-suds — the addition of a little ammonia is 
good when the leather is very dirty — repeating the 
process if necessary. Rinse in a fresh lather of soap 
and water and then hang out to dry. During the 
drying process the leather may be rubbed with the 
hands and pulled into shape a little. When dry it 
will be as soft and as good for cleaning purposes as 
ever. 

To take fat from soups quickly: A greasy soup is 
a culinary abomination. In fact it does not deserve 
the name of soup. It is merely badly-made gravy. 
Every drop of oil should be removed from the sur- 
face before the broth or clear soup is served. 

If you discover globules of fat upon the gravy soup 
you are to serve to-day, you need not wait to cool it 
before removing them. Wring a clean white cloth 



AFTERMATH 385 

out in iced water and strain the soup. The grease 
will coagulate at once and will not go through the 
cloth, while the liquid will. Of course, the soup must 
not be squeezed in the straining. 

All stocks, soup and gravy should be boiled up 
each day or they will turn sour. 

To keep a burning lamp from smelling or smoking: 
A tablespoqnful of vinegar put into the oil lamp or 
stove that smells or smokes will cause it to burn with 
a Tclear light and prevent it from smoking. If you 
boil the wicks of lamps in strong hot vinegar, then 
dry them, it will do away with most of the disagree- 
able odor. 

A sure destroyer of moths — simple and not poison- 
ous: Saturate moth-infested stuffed furniture, rugs, 
etc., with naphtha. Do this in the open air, and 
after several days have elapsed repeat the operation, 
as the eggs may not all have been destroyed at the 
first trial. Lay over moth-eaten spots in the carpet 
several thicknesses of cloth wrung from hot water, 
and place hot irons upon the cloths. Allow them to 
stand ten or twelve minutes at a time that the steam 
may penetrate every part. After this has been done 
pour on naphtha. 

To keep mice from closed drawers: If camphor be 
kept in drawers and cupboards, their contents will 
be safe from mice, for they detest the smell. 

To restore curdled mayonnaise: If your mayon- 
naise curdles in the beating you may save the day by 
stirring into it a lump of ice as big as your fist and 



386 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

whirling it rapidly through the dressing for thirty 
seconds, then taking it out. Go on with your beating 
then. Should this not succeed, mix into the mayon- 
naise the yolk of a chilled fresh egg. 

Mayonnaise should not be beaten with a spoon, but 
with horizontal strokes of a fork, or with a revolving 
egg-beater. 

To clear arid purify muddy water: Stir into it 
powdered alum. Leave it to settle and in a few hours 
it will be fit for use. Drain off the water without 
disturbing the dregs. The taste of alum will be 
hardly perceptible. 

To take grease spots out of wall paper: Pulverize 
French chalk, damped lightly, just enough to make 
it adhere to the paper ; but do not make it wet enough 
to run upon the surrounding surface. Leave it on 
for a couple of days ; cover them with blotting-paper 
and hold a warm — not a hot — iron upon the blotter 
for two minutes. This should draw out the grease. 
If it does not, brush off the chalk and repeat the pro- 
cess. 

To clean a shell-backed comb or brush from wKte 
marks left by alcohol, or cologne: Try to efface the 
white marks with camphorated oil rubbed well in 
with soft flannel. Then rub the whole comb with 
neat's foot oil applied in the same way. Leave the 
oil on for a day, shutting the comb in a box. Fin- 
ally, polish with chamois skin. 

To renovate black crape: Remove it from the 
dress and sponge it with beer or diluted ammonia. 



AFTERMATH 387 

The former leaves an odor which takes rather longer 
to evaporate, but placing it when damp before a brisk 
fire facilitates matters. 

It may also be renewed by holding it over a pan 
of boiling water, evenly, but not so tightly as to 
hinder it from falling naturally into the "crinkles" 
that give it character. Take it by the edges when the 
steam has moistened it thoroughly, and hang in the 
dry air. 

To bleach faded cottons white: The colored frock 
or blouse that has been faded in the wash or by the 
sun, may be bleached white by boiling in cream of 
tartar water. The quantity to be used to make the 
garment a pure white is a teaspoonful of the powder 
to a quart of water. 

Materials that have become faded and discolored 
are often restored by packing them away in a dark 
closet or chest. Layers of tissue-paper will aid in 
the process. 

To do away with the dark ring left by cleaning tex- 
tiles: When a dark ring is left on the material after 
using such cleansing agents to remove a stain, make 
a ring all around the outside of the first ring by dip- 
ping the finger in chloroform and applying it to the 
material ; keep rubbing toward the center of the cir- 
cle with plenty of chloroform, allowing it to evapo- 
rate freely, and the ring will disappear when the spot 
is dry. 

Sweeping and dusting : If your home is heated by 
dry air, a damp cloth should be laid over each regis- 



388 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

ter before you begin to sweep. In summer cover the 
closed registers with rugs or with wadded squares of 
matting to keep the must and smells of the basement 
out of the living-rooms. 

Brooms dipped for a few minutes in boiling suds 
once a week will last much longer than they other- 
wise would. They should immediately afterward be 
plunged into cold water to stiffen the straw. If salt 
be added to the water — a handful to a large pailful — ■ 
the straw will be stiff and cleaner than if water alone 
be used, and the salt is fatal to the hardiest of vermin 
that may lurk in the upper part of the brush. 

Emery-cloth and sandpaper as sharpeners and pol- 
ishers: A small board to which sandpaper has been 
glued flat is good for rubbing flat-irons upon to take 
off any roughness. Emery-cloth of different grades 
of fineness may be glued to narrow strips of wood for 
use in sharpening knives or scissors and putting a 
point upon a pencil. 

How to clean sponges: Sponges ought to be 
washed out first, with household ammonia; then in 
water in which a little cream of tartar has been dis- 
solved. Finally, rinse in clear cold water. 

To Jceep salt from hardening: During damp 
weather salt cellars are apt to be clogged on the inner 
side of the holes. By placing a few rice kernels in 
each cellar and adding the salt last the delivery is 
better. 

A teaspoonful of corn-starch mixed well into each 



AFTERMATH 389 

cupful of salt is a yet surer preventive, the starch 
absorbing the dampness. 

The care of jelly hags: Dip jelly bags in boiling 
water and wring as dry as possible before using, to 
save the loss of fruit juice from soaking into the 
cloth. 

How to wash a sieve: Never wash a sieve with 
soap. Soda or ammonia will clean it, with the help 
of a clean whisk broom. 

To clean flat-irons : Tie a lump of wax in a piece 
of cloth, and keep it for the purpose. When the iron 
is hot, rub it with the wax, and then scour with a 
paper or cloth sprinkled with salt. Wax the iron 
again before putting it away, to prevent the forma- 
tion of rust. 

How to pick game: To remove the feathers from 
game of any kind dip in boiling water, then wrap in 
a thick cloth. The feathers are steamed loose in a 
very few minutes and the "pins" will give very little 
or no trouble. 

Charcoal in the pantry: A dish of charcoal placed 
in the pantry will keep articles of food sweet and 
wholesome almost as well as ice. Change it once a 
week when the weather is warm. 

To remove the <( shine" from cloth: For that an- 
noying " shine" that will appear on clothing where 
the most wear comes, use bluing — common laundry 
bluing. Use a tablespoonful of bluing to a half -cup 
of water, apply with a soft cloth, then proceed with 



390 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

the pressing, and the "shine" has vanished until 
time to press again. 

To take rust from steel and iron: Make a paste of 
wood ashes and kerosene, and rub it well into the 
rust. Leave it on for a few hours before scouring 
it with dry ashes (sifted fine) and a flannel cloth. 
This will remove rust from almost any surface. If 
you can not get wood ashes, which are often difficult 
to obtain, use whiting. 

To clean rusty steel make a paste of equal quanti- 
ties of whiting and brick-dust mixed together with 
kerosene. Apply this to the steel with an old cloth, 
and afterward polish with soft leather. A piece of 
old velveteen would answer the purpose as well as 
leather. 

To keep flies from windows: It is said that flies 
will not settle on windows that have been washed 
with water with which a little kerosene has been 
mixed. 

To take out fruit stains from linen: If the fabric 
be soaked in spirits of camphor before wetting, the 
stain will be removed unless other detersives have 
been used already. 

To clean willow furniture: Use salt and water. 
Apply with a brush and then rub dry. 

Milky glasses: Rinsing them in cold water before 
washing them in warm will prevent them from look- 
ing smeared. Hot water forms a film with milk and 
clouds the glass. It converts egg-smears into a hard 
custard that is difficult to wash off. Egg-cups and 



AFTERMATH 391 

spoons should always be laid in cold water to soak 
before they are plunged into hot. 

How to pour griddle-cake batter: It is always 
better in making griddle-cakes to pour the batter 
from a pitcher, instead of dropping it from a spoon. 
There is no dropping or streaking of the raw batter 
over range and griddle. 

To clean a defaced iron bedstead: It may be im- 
proved in appearance, as well as cleaned, by rubbing 
with a cloth dipped in kerosene. Remove every 
trace of oil by rubbing again with a clean cloth or 
leather. Warm the oil slightly. 

How to dry an umbrella: Leave a wet umbrella 
open to dry so that the silk will not rot or crease. If 
it can not be left open, turn it upside down, so that 
the moisture will not collect at the ferrule end and so 
rot the silk. 

By " upside down" is meant that it must stand 
with the ferrule uppermost. The moisture then 
trickles harmlessly from the tips of the ribs. 

Cane-seated chairs: Scrub with soap and hot 
water. Turn the chairs upside down, and make the 
cane thoroughly wet. Then dry in the open air. 
The effect will not merely be to clean the cane, but 
to shrink it, and if the cane be not broken, the seat 
will, when dry, be firm and taut. 

Again, as with the broom, add a little salt to the 
water to prevent the canes from yellowing. 

Dried paint on wood and glass: Spread over the 
marks a thick paste made of lime and soda mixed with 



392 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

water. Leave twenty-four hours, then wash off. 

A hint to amateur gardeners: If you are about to 
engage in gardening, rub the finger-tips along a cake 
of soap, getting it well under each nail. This will 
prevent unpleasant material from lodging there. 

In potting house plants, in weeding and settling 
the earth about roots that have been disturbed by 
hoe or rake, this homely precaution is valuable. The 
soap not merely prevents the accumulation of soil 
under the nails, but helps to cleanse them when the 
hands are washed from the grime. 

To make leather waterproof: Mix half a pound 
of mutton suet, six ounces of beeswax, a quarter of a 
pound of resin, and half a pint of boiled linseed-oil. 
Melt these ingredients together, and apply while hot. 
Boys' brogans will withstand mud and the rot of 
snow-water twice as long if treated every fortnight 
in winter with this preparation. 

How to make a pine-needle pillow : Clip the pine 
branches into small twigs with a pair of sharp shears. 
If they are torn off, the resinous juice, which is the 
soul of the "cure," escapes. Spread the twigs on 
paper to dry in the air but not in the sunshine or 
they will shrivel and the resinous breath be exhaled 
before its time. At the end of a week clip the needles 
off close to the stem and fill your pillows. I have 
cushions that were filled after this manner ten years 
ago, which are fragrant still. 

To ournish copper: Mix a handful of common 
salt with enough vinegar and flour to make a paste. 



AFTERMATH 393 

After using the paste wash thoroughly and polish 
with chamois skin. 

To remove iron mold from linen or cotton: Dis- 
solve one heaping teaspoonful of oxalic acid in a pint 
of boiling water. Then hold the article over a bowl 
and pour the water slowly through on spots. Pour 
through several times until there are no rust spots 
left. 

Do not fail to rinse the goods well in clear water 
after each application of the acid. Neglect of this 
precaution has brought undeserved reproach upon a 
potent detersive. 

Grass and coffee stains: For grass stains on cot- 
ton or woolen goods wash in alcohol. 

Wet tea and coffee stains with cold water and 
glycerin and let them stand for two or three hours. 
Then wash with hard soap and cold water. 

Stains on kitchen tables: Oxalic acid dissolved in 
hot water and applied to the stained wood of kitchen 
tables, or to sinks and boilers, will cleanse the metals 
and whiten the wood. 

To wash the baby's flannels: Boil a bar of old 
white soap — shaved — in a quart of hot water until it 
is a clear liquid. Use about a fourth of the solution 
in two or three quarts of water comfortably warm to 
the hands. The principle is not that the water need 
be only lukewarm, but that each water be the same 
temperature. The same suds may be used for all the 
little garments, beginning with the shirts, then stock- 
ings, then skirts. On no account should a woolen 



394 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

garment be rubbed or wrung, as either motion 
"piles" the fiber and harshens the wool. All that is 
necessary is to squeeze gently and souse them in the 
suds. Two:suds and three rinse waters are generally 
sufficient. Squeeze the garments as dry as may be 
after each bath and finally shake well and pull gently. 
Dry in the house. When nearly dry press carefully 
with a hot iron, which should be tested before putting 
on the wool to avoid scorching. If any garment is 
too heavy to be squeezed dry enough to hang the 
wringer may be used. This treatment is highly suc- 
cessful with "bearskin" coats and bonnets. Brush 
the fur well instead of ironing. 

To remove a "smell" from clothing: To take the 
odor out of stockings that smell of the dye and 
the armpits of underwear and wash waists: When 
they are washed let the last rinsing be in alum water 
— about a teaspoonful of powdered alum to one quart 
of warm water. 

To take grease out of an embroidered linen center- 
piece: So long as the grease is not directly upon the 
embroidery all is safe. Rub plenty of powdered* 
French chalk on the wrong side of the linen and put 
it aside in a box for two days. Then lay thick blot- 
ting-paper over the chalk and press with a warm iron. 
This draws out the oil. Should any sign of the spot 
remain on the right side it is the dust that has settled 
in the grease. Put a thick pad of blotting-paper un- 
der the spot and sponge with pure alcohol. 

To clean amber beads: If you do not care to take 



AFTERMATH 395 

the beads to a jeweler, rub them with amber oil, 
leaving it on for some hours. Then polish with a 
soft flannel, wrung out dry in pure olive oil. Lastly, 
rub until warm with old silk. 

This will excite the latent electricity in the amber 
— restoring its spirit, as it were. 

Domestic dyeing: To color brown with gum 
catechu. 

For five pounds of goods take two pounds of gum 
catechu, one tablespoonful of alum, six ounces of 
bichromate of potash. Dissolve the gum in water 
enough "to cover the goods. Put the alum in with 
the gum. Wet the goods, then put them in the dye 
and let them remain two hours over a slow fire, airing 
and stirring frequently. Then take them out and 
dry partly, make a new dye of the bichromate of 
potash with plenty of water in which to dip the goods. 
Dip several times ; after which rinse well. Iron while 
damp. It will give a fast color for wool or cotton. 
It has been thoroughly tried. 

For coloring cotton rags canary, dissolve ten cents ' 
worth of sugar of lead in one vessel and ten cents' 
worth of bichromate of potash in another. Put a 
gallon of water into each. Don't boil, but use the 
dye cold. Dip the cotton into each dye alternately. 
This makes a beautiful canary color. To make a 
nice green, dip the canary into bluing water. 

Sponge for washing paint: Washing paint with 
warm water and a large soft sponge will do the work 
better and more quickly than a cloth. The sponge 



396 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

leaves no lint, and it saves the time you spend wring- 
ing out a cloth. 

To keep cider sweet: (1) Use only sound apples; 
make the cider when the weather is cold enough to 
freeze the apples. Expose the cider during freezing 
weather and stir it until the whole of it is reduced to 
as near the freezing point as possible without freez- 
ing. Then barrel it, bung up tightly and place in a 
cellar kept nearly down to the freezing point. As 
long as it can be kept cold it will not ferment, and as 
long as it does not ferment it will remain sweet. 

The sweetness of cider may also be preserved by 
adding to it sulphite of lime and black mustard-seed 
— the sulphur inherent in the mustard acting jointly 
with the sulphite as a preservative. 

(2) Grind or chop six or eight horseradish roots 
fine and put in one barrel of cider as soon after mak- 
ing as possible. If kept in a cool place, it will re- 
main sweet until spring. What is left makes fine 
vinegar. One ounce of wintergreen will also keep it 
sweet but most people do not like the flavor. 

To transfer a print or photograph: Take the pic- 
ture you wish to transfer; dip a cheap brush into 
turpentine and paint the picture with it. A blotter 
should be used to avoid streaking the picture. Now 
lay the picture face down upon the article to which 
you wish to transfer it. Rub the entire surface care- 
fully with a smooth instrument. This completes the 
operation. 

Fleas upon dog or cat: If one whose pet dog or 



AFTERMATH 397 

cat is troubled with fleas will wet the afflicted one with 
camphor diluted with water, one will find that the 
fleas have taken leave at once, and no harm is done 
to the pet. 

Ways of preserving eggs all winter: (1) Put one- 
half peck of fresh lime into fifteen gallons of water. 
Stir well and let it stand over night. On the fol- 
lowing day give it another good stirring and, when 
clear, draw the water off. Mix the water with one- 
half pound (eight ounces) of common salt and three- 
quarters of an ounce of pure cream of tartar. Place 
the eggs in this solution to within two inches of the 
level of the liquid. Be careful not to crack any. 
Cover the vessel with a heavy muslin cloth and put 
one inch of lime sediment over the muslin. Put in a 
cool, dark place and the eggs will keep for nine 
months in the same brine. 

(2) Allow one pint of lime and one-half pint of 
salt to three gallons of water. Put into a large stone 
jar and keep in a cool place. Of course, the eggs 
have to be perfectly fresh when put into the jar. 

(3) Place the casks or buckets in a cool place, 
where they are to remain. To one gallon of boiling 
water add one pound of water-glass (a solution of 
silicate of soda) while hot. The glass dissolves at 
once in warm water and no one could tell it had been 
added. Let it cool and then put in the eggs whenever 
obtainable. Drop them in gently. Mark this: 
every egg put in the liquid should be fresh. "Water- 
glass is a preservative for eggs and not a restorative, 



398 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

and no eggs placed in it should be more than a week 
old. Finally, all the eggs must be under the liquid, 
but so long as they are not exposed they may be as 
near the surface as possible. 

To keep ants away from refrigerators: Pull the 
refrigerator away from the wall, then paint a circle 
of kerosene on the floor around each leg of the re- 
frigerator. The ants will not cross the circle. 

To protect walls in moving furniture: It is diffi- 
cult to lift heavy bureaus and bed-steads up-stairs 
without grazing the walls. Hang sheets along the 
staircase walls so that the paper and paint will not 
be soiled or scraped. 

To remove lime from the inside of a tea-kettle: 
Boil vinegar in your kettle. The acid acting upon 
the deposit of alkaline matter inside, will cause it to 
disintegrate and crack off. Scrape it out, and in fu- 
ture keep an oyster shell in the kettle. The lime will 
collect upon it instead of adhering to the sides of the 
vessel. Renew the shell weekly. 

To keep cut glass from cracking: Cut glass bowls 
are often cracked when hot liquids or custards are' 
poured into them. To prevent such an accident, 
place the dish on a wet cloth. Of course, the fruit 
must not be boiling hot. 

IN THE SICK-ROOM 

Cracked ice: Fever patients derive more comfort 
from cracked ice when the mouth is dry and hot than 
from drafts of water. A bit of ice laid on the ton- 



AFTERMATH 399 

gue and left to dissolve slowly, trickling down the 
parched throat of itself, without the effort of swal- 
lowing, is inexpressibly grateful. 

Cracked ice should be the instant resort in cases of 
hemorrhage from the lungs. 

It is especially valuable when one has an inflamed 
throat. I have known cases of tonsilitis and incipi- 
ent quinsy to be relieved and, indeed, entirely cured 
by holding cracked ice in the mouth for hours at a 
time. The icy trickle over the inflamed parts is 
soothing and healing. Some throat specialists use 
no other remedy unless the disease has gained such 
force that heroic measures must be resorted to in 
order to save life. 

It will often arrest nausea, if administered in mi- 
nute bits, allowing one to dissolve before the next is 
taken into the mouth. 

To prevent a mustard-plaster from Mistering: 
Mix oil or lard with the mustard, working all into a 
smooth paste, and letting fall a few drops of oil upon 
the surface of the poultice before applying it. 

In cases where mustard would perhaps be too se- 
vere, a mixture of white of egg and red pepper may 
be safely used. It will be found quite as effective as 
the mustard, but it will not blister nor leave un- 
sightly red blotches even on the tenderest skin. It 
can safely be applied at the base of the brain for 
headache. 

More uses for camphor: A safe and not unpleas- 
ant household remedy. If one afflicted with catarrhal 



400 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

cold will inhale the odor of spirits of camphor for 
two minutes, every hour, drawing long breaths of 
the fumes, patiently and perseveringly, keeping the 
mouth closed meanwhile, the affection will, in most 
cases, be relieved within twenty-four hours. 

Three drops of camphor in a teaspoonf ul of water, 
taken every fifteen minutes for an hour, will often 
relieve distressing nausea. Camphor is one of the 
safest and most convenient of drugs for domestic 
use. Flannel, folded and soaked in camphor, then 
laid on the pit of the stomach, is a sure alleviative of 
colic and nausea. 

Tincture of myrrh as a mouth wash: Twenty 
drops in four tablespoonfuls of water is an excellent 
mouth wash, both healing and cleansing. It is not to 
be swallowed. 

The duty of washing the mouth after each meal is 
neglected by thousands of so-called neat people. 
Particles of food left between the teeth yield to the 
law of rapid decomposition that goes on with other 
"left-overs" in the human body, and infect the 
breath, likewise the gastric juices, as the saliva 
washes them down the throat. 

Baby's mouth should be washed daily with a small 
square of old linen or piece of handkerchief wrapped 
around the little finger and dipped into water. 
Tongue and gums should be thoroughly cleaned. 
Burn the piece of linen as soon as used. This simple 
act daily would do much to prevent the "thrash" 
prevalent with young babies. 



AFTERMATH 401 

Remedies for' croup: (1) An acute attack of 
croup may sometimes be relieved if a towel or strip 
of flannel folded lengthwise and dipped into hot 
water, then slightly wrung out, be placed around the 
neck of the sufferer and covered so as to retain the 
heat. 

(2) Apply a poultice made of camphorated oil and 
nutmeg. Heat the oil, saturate a piece of old muslin 
with it, then grate nutmeg thickly over it, and apply 
to the chest while warm. If one poultice does not 
cure, apply more. 

When applying hot "stupes" (cloths or bandages) 
heat them by putting them into the inner vessel of a 
double boiler. If no double boiler be at hand, any 
covered vessel that can be set firmly within another 
will do. Keep the flannels or other stupes moist 
by sprinkling a little water on them, as they dry, and 
have one on the patient and one in the boiler all the 
time. Do not remove from the patient until the other 
stupe is ready to go on. 

Put a layer of absorbent cotton and a piece of oiled 
silk or light rubber tissue over the stupe to keep the 
heat in. 

A cheap 'disinfectant: Place a common plate over 
a kettle in which water is kept boiling, sprinkle a level 
tablespoonful of sulphur on the plate and replenish 
it every hour. The heat from the boiling water sets 
free the sulphur dioxide without the disagreeable 
fumes of burning sulphur, and is death to all germs. 
It will prevent the disease from spreading to any 



402 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

other member of the household. The sulphur is best 
sprinkled by using a common pepper can. It should 
be kept going all of the first day. After that a 
couple of hours twice a day will do. 

HOMELY REMEDIES 

Bo not take cold: Keep a woolen robe and wool- 
lined slippers near the bedside to be slipped on when 
called up suddenly during the night, and never sleep 
in a draft. 

Sulphur for rheumatism: Sprinkle powdered sul- 
phur between sheet and wadding, covering with thin 
cloth, and bind on the affected parts; wear all the 
time, renewing occasionally. Sulphur is a great 
blood purifier, and when used in this way works 
through the pores. 

For excessive perspiration: An alleviative for ex- 
cessive perspiration under the arms is made by dis- 
solving half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 
a small cupful of water. This lotion mopped on the 
parts is sometimes very beneficial. 

Sulphur for eczema: Work flower of sulphur into 
vaseline. Turn a plate bottom side up and put upon 
it about half a spoonful of vaseline ; add the sulphur, 
a little at a time, and work it into the vaseline with a 
broad-bladed knife, until of the right consistency. It 
will have the appearance of a bright yellow salve. 
Keep in a glass jar with a tight top. 

Nose-Need is often stopped in the old way of apply- 
ing cold compresses or a bit of ice done up in a cloth 



AFTERMATH 403 

at the back of the neck. At the same time insert a 
small wad of paper between the Upper lip and teeth, 
and press the lips firmly down over it. 

Prolonged bleeding at the nose : It may be checked 
by making the patient lie on his back and extend both 
arms as far above his head as they will go— flat on 
the floor— holding them thus until the bleeding slack- 
ens. I have seen profuse hemorrhage from the nose 
stopped in this way. 

Deodorisers: (1) Put a piece of camphor on a 
saucer and lay on it a red-hot shoveL The fumes 
from the camphor quickly go off and cause all close- 
ness to disappear. 

(2) Dried orange peel, burned upon a brazier or 
upon hot coals on a shovel, will dispel an evil odor. 

(3) A painter taught me thirty years ago that the 
danger of "painter's Cholera" may be averted by set- 
ting a tub of cold water in a freshly painted room. 
Next morning the water is covered with oily particles 
containing lead poison. 

(4) A few grains of coffee burned on hot coals will 
purify the air in a sick-room and drive away any 
odor. 

'An antiseptic: Peroxide of hydrogen is a val- 
uable antiseptic to have in the house. It makes a 
pleasant mouth wash and throat gargle when diluted 
and will remove blood stains if used before the stain 
is dry. 

Danger of checked secretions of the skin: Pastes 
and powders that are put on the complexion at night 



404 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

constrict the pores and shut in the sebaceous secre- 
tions, bringing on the very evils that one is trying 
to annihilate. The process suffocates the skin, re- 
encouraging the laziness of the glands and pores that 
produces blackheads and blotches. i 

The eyes: The eyes are benefited lay a bath before 
retiring. Dust has accumulated along the edges of 
the lids and should be removed before going to sleep. 
Eyes that are weary from long use may smart and 
grow inflamed. A simple method of relief is to lay 
over them a compress wet with cold water. As it is 
warmed by contact with the flesh renew it. 

To whiten yellowish gray hair: The elderly 
woman (or man) whose hair, in graying, has a yellow 
tinge, may correct this and obtain a beautifully white 
head by the use of a new hair-brush dipped in bluing 
water, dried and dipped again, then laid in the air to 
get perfectly dry. When one wishes to use it, the 
brush should be moistened — not soaked — in clear 
water. If carefully handled, one bluing will last for 
some weeks without renewal. 

THE CARE OF THE FEET 

Soft corns: (1) Use sweet or almond oil on ab- 
sorbent cotton placed between the toes. 

(2) Use camphor on absorbent cotton in the same 
way. I 

(3) Use bicarbonate of soda — or saleratus — dry. 
Put in plentifully between the toes, This alkali 



AFTERMATH 405 

draws out all the soreness caused by moisture and 
acid. 

Hard corns: Place over the corn a disk of kid, 
chamois or thin, soft felt, with a hole in the center. 
Relieve as much pressure as possible. Salicylic acid 
and collodion make a good lotion for corns. An- 
other method for removing them — a homely one — is 
to soak them in hot water for half an hour and re- 
move as much of the corn as possible. Then bind 
over it a clove of garlic, previously crushed and 
soaked in vinegar. Do this every night for a week. 

CARE OF PLANTS 

House hyacinths should be planted in November. 
Keep them after planting in a dark cupboard in a 
moderately warm room. When the sprouts are a 
few inches high, bring them by degrees into the light. 
The sickly green of the young shoots will soon darken 
into a healthy growth. Give them plenty of sunlight, 
water twice a week abundantly, and shade them at 
night from gaslight. If transported suddenly from 
darkness to the full glory of the sunshine, they will 
wither. Move them a little nearer the window daily 
for a week. 

Keeping flowers fresh: Clip the tips of the stalks 
before putting them in fresh water, which should be 
just off the chill. Always have clean vases. A pinch 
of charcoal powder in each vase is a preservative. 

/Sulphur for plants: Stick plenty of unburned 



406 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 

matches head first into the soil of plants that begin 
to look unhealthy. If there should be anything work- 
ing at the roots or anything that is alive that should 
not be there, it will exterminate them without the 
least injury to the plant. 

Calla lily: About the last of May lay it to rest 
under the house, where it will dry off. The last week 
of August repot it. Put charcoal or bits of broken 
bone in the pot ; plant the bulb in good, rich soil, first 
shaking off all the dry earth; set in a pail of water 
and give it a good wetting, Then put it in a dark, 
damp place for about ten days, when it should have 
a shoot about six inches long. Now give a teaspoon- 
ful of castor-oil, wet again and put the plant in a 
sunny window, gradually, where there is no gas heat. 
Give it a deep saucer and every morning fill this with 
boiling water. Once a week give the plant a good 
wetting and by the middle of November you will have 
blooms. 

To destroy cabbage-worms: One large cup of table 
salt to one gallon of water will destroy cabbage- 
worms and not harm the plant. Pour from a sprink- 
ling can. 



THE END 



INDEX 



INDEX 



ABSORBENT, rye flour as an, ALCOHOL STAINS, 386 
139 
water as an, 250 



ABSORPTION, removing grease 
from fabric by, 113 
removing grease from wood or 
stone by, 207 

ACCOUNTS, HOUSEHOLD, 4 

ACID, acetic, to remove warts, 

369 
complemental, needed in bread 

made with soda, 94 
phosphoric, 336 
stomach in baby, to correct, 341 

ACIDS, fruit, medicinal and nu- 
tritive qualities of, 335 
vegetable, harmlessness of in ex- 
tracting stains, 98 

ALABASTER, to clean, 236 



ALKALI, commonest form of, 
367 
sal-soda, in soap powder, 34 

ALKALIS, specifics for stings "ANT-COWS," to destroy, 173 
and bites, 367 



ALUM, 143 

ALUM WATER, 394 

AMBER, to clean, 394 

AMMONIA, 105, 111 
effect on hair of, 175 
value in kitchen, 241 

ANIMALS, anatomy of, 277 

ANTIDOTES, for various poi- 
sons, 349, 350 

APPLES, medicinal and nutritive 
qualities of, 336 

APPLIANCES, necessary for 
ironing, 64 
necessary for washing table- 
ware, 257 

ANTS, from refrigerator, to keep, 

398 
infesting lawns, 159 
red and black, to rid house of, 

157 



ALCOHOL, 110, 142 



ANTISEPTIC, peroxide of hy- 
drogen as, 403 



ALCOHOL AND ETHER, cau- APHIDES, methods of destroy- 
tion in use of, 141 ing, 173 

409 



410 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



ASBESTOS, cover, advantage of 
for dinner table, 272 
mats of, for table, 213 

ASH-SIFTEE, for kitchen range, 
244 

ATTIC, to rid of superfluous ar- 
ticles, 304 

AXLE GREASE STAINS, 107 

BAGS, jelly, care of, 389 

BAKING, present neglect of, 74 

BATH-ROOM, borax, value of, 
in, 230 

daily care of, 269 

danger from sewer gas in, 229 

how to clean enameled tub, 231 

how to clean porcelain equip- 
ment, 231 

faucets, polish for, 233 

oxalic acid, use in, 232 

shelf and towel-roller, 235 

situation of, 229 

soaps, 234 

to wash painted walls of, 205 

ventilation in, 228 

BATH-ROOM, care of furnish- 
ings in, 228 

BATTER, how to pour griddle 
cake, 391 

BED, best kind of mattress for, 

220 
care of brass, 226 
coverings, how to clean, 223 
sick, position and arrangement, 

372 



BEDBUGS, mixture for destruc- 
tion of, 178 

to destroy with formaldehyde, 
178 

to destroy with gasoline, 177 

to destroy with gasoline and 
camphor, 179 

to destroy with kerosene, 176 

to destroy with paste of cor- 
rosive sublimate, 177 

to destroy with paste of quick- 
silver, 178 

to destroy with spirits of tur- 
pentine, 177 

scientific name of, 176 

BEDROOMS, daily care of, 268 
order in annual cleaning of, 305 

BEDSTEAD, light-weight, ad- 
vantage of, 226 
iron, to clean, 391 

BEEF, facts about, 277-280 
medicinal and dietary values of, 
338 

BENZINE, 116, 125 
to remove paint from delicate _ 
fabrics, 108 

BILE, 336 

BILIOUS DISORDERS, 333, 
334, 337 

BILIARY CALCULI, 333 

BLACKBERRIES, as tonic, 334 

BLANKETS, cold water process 
for, 41 



INDEX 



411 



method of washing, 43 
to remove stains from, 383 

BLOCK MAGNESIA, use in dry- 
cleaning, 119 

BLOOD, currants as purifiers of, 
335 
diseases of the, 333 
effect of roast meats upon, 338 

BLOOD STAINS, 403 

BLOTTING PAPER, use in re- 
moving stains, 112 

BLUING, precautions in use of, 
21 
recipe for home-made, 35 

BODY, CARE OP, 312 
bath, the, 320 
bath, cold, some disadvantages 

of, 320 
bath, hot, 321 
bath, value of rubbing after, 

322 
breathing, advice of eminent 

authorities on, 316 
breathing exercises, 314 
deep breathing, rules for, 313 
dumb bells, the use of, 318 
exercises for the nervous, 330 
eyes, 404 
feet, 404 

gentle gymnastics, rules for, 317 
how to grow taller, 322 
how to derive benefits from 

physical culture, 319 
how to rest properly, 329 
insomnia, several remedies for, 

326-328 



mouth, 400 

naps, value of, 325 

physical culture, time necessary 

for, 320 
relaxation of nerves, 329 
sleep, amount needed, 325 
sleep, fresh air an inducement 

to, 323 
to reduce a double chin, 330 

BOOK SHELVES, care of, 160 
to clean, 239 

BOOK-WORMS, to rid of, 160 

BOOKS, to clean, 239 
to clean leather-bound, 145 

BORACIC TALCUM, excellence 
in dry-cleaning, 118 
for chapped hands, 230 

BORAX, antiseptic, medicinal 
and cleansing powers of, 230 

use in laundry, 16 

use in ridding house of roaches, 
163 

various uses in kitchen, 241 

BORAX AND FLOUR, for dry- 
cleaning, 118 

BRAN- WATER, recipe for, 20 

BRASS, acids and substances 

hurtful to, 226 
bird cage, to clean, 256 
black and green, treatment of, 

256 
daily care of, 255 
effect of dampness and dust 

upon, 227 



412 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



general care of, 226 
laying away of, 255 
several ways of cleaning, 256 
to polish, 383 

BREAD, absorbent qualities, 91 

BREAD BOWL, proper kind of, 
86 

BREAD BOX, eare of, 91, 250 

BREAD-MAKING, eomplemental 

acids needed with soda 

breads, 94 
dough, kneading the dough, 87- 

89 
dough, sensitive quality of, 92 
kneading sponge, 87 
lessons in, 84 
milk bread, recipe for, 92 
preparation of oven, 90 
potato sponge, recipe for, 86 
quick breads, recipes for, 93 
sourness in sponge, to correct, 

87 
sweating the loaf, to prevent, 

91 
yeast, 79 
yeast cakes, home-made, recipe 

for, 83 
yeast, compressed, 80 
yeast, hop, recipe for, 81 
yeast, potato, recipe for, 82 

BREAKFAST TABLE, use of 
mats on, 272 

BREATHING, 313 
advice of an eminent author- 
ity on, 316 



exercises, 314 
through the nose, 313 

BROOM CLOTHS, 195 

BROOMS, care of, 187, 388 
green, inutility of, 384 
hair, 194 

BRUSHES, care of household, 
188 

BUFFALO-BEETLES AND 

SILVER-MOTHS, to exter- 
minate, 153 

BURLAPS, 205 

BURNS AND SCALDS, 351 

BUTTER, where to buy, 288 

CAMPHOR, abhorrent to moths, 

151 
medicinal use of, 346 
use in keeping silver bright, 

254 
various uses in illness, 400 

CANCEROUS DISEASES, 334 

CARBONIC ACID GAS, 324 . 

CARE OF bath-room, 269 
bedrooms, 268 
body, 312 
brooms, 187, 388 
dining-room, 266 
front, the, 265 
house, 7 
household furnishings, 181, 208, 

228, 252 
kitchen and pantries, 267 



INDEX 



413 



kitchen sink, 240 

mirrors, 210 

pewter and Britannia, 247 

piano, 238 

sick, the, 370 

silver, 252 

teakettle, 398 

tiles, 206 

CARPET CLEANING, 382 

CARPET SWEEPER, value and 
eare of, 187 

CARPETS, to clean with am- 
monia, 184 

to renovate, 187 

to rid of moths, 155 

to scrub, 188 

treatment of, when closing 
house, 154 

weekly sweeping of, 186 

CATARRH, relation of, to im- 
proper breathing, 317 

CATERPILLARS, APHIDES, 
ROSE BEETLES, to de- 
stroy, 172-174 

CEDAR OIL, 160, 161 

CELLARS AND OUTHOUSES, 
sanitary quality of white- 
wash for, 204 

CEMENT, for mending kitchen 
utensils, recipe, 248 

CHAMOIS, skins, to wash, 384" 
vests, to wash, 48 
vests, to dry-clean, 131 



CHARCOAL, use in pantry, 389 

CHEWING-GUM, to remove 
from clothing, 144 

CHIMNEYS, lamp, to temper, 
261 
smoky, to cure, 244 
on fire, to stop, 244 

CHINA, for daily use, how to 
buy, 288 
how to wash, 257, 258 
sorting before washing, 257 

CHINA, GLASS, SILVER, care 
of, 252 

CHLORIDE OF LIME, action 
upon delicate fabrics, 106 
mixture of, 101 
solution of, 101 
to remove fruit stains with, 106 

CIDER, to keep sweet, 396 

CLEAN, alabaster, to, 236 
amber, to, 394 
carpet, to, 382 
chiffon, white, to, 138 
feathers, to, 135 
furniture, to, 212 
furs, dark, to, 123 
furs, white, to, 123 
gilding, to, 206 
felt hats, to, 123 
gloves, various ways, to, 125 
jet, to, 144 
leather, to, 128-131 
leather-bound books, to, 145 
mother-of-pearl, to, 237 



414 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



non-washable articles of dress, 

to, 114 
paint, to, 395 
plaster figures, to, 236 
precious stones, to, 144 
ribbons, to, 56 
sewing-machine, to, 238 
silks, black, to, 53 
silks, fast-colors^ to, 54 
Silks, wash-, to, 55 
sponges, to, 388 
stuffs, white, to, 137 
stuffs, dark wool, to, 58 
summer hats, to, 131-133 
utensils, to, 245-249 
velvet, several methods, to, 

121 
walls, to, 201 
wall-paper, to, 202 
windows, to, 208 
zinc, to, 244 

CLEANING, dry, 116 
house, 301 

textiles, to remove, ring left by, 
387 

CLOTH, to remove wrinkles in, 

122 
CLOTHES-LINE AND PINS, 

care of, 24 

CLOTHS, for cleaning, care of, 
269 
dust, 269, 299 

COAL OIL, use in stopping 
mosquito breeding, 168 



COLD WATER PROCESS, for 
blankets, 41 

COLORED COTTONS, care of 
in laundry, 20, 48 

COLORS, to set, 143 

COMFORTABLES, how to wash, 
223 

COMPLEXION, to improve, 335 
CONSTIPATION, 332, 334, 337 
COOKING, value in study of, 5 

COPPER, to burnish, 392 
to clean, 246 

CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE, rec- 
ipe for paste of, 177 

COTTONS, to bleach faded, 387 

CRAPE, black, several methods 
of renovating^ 386 

CROUP, remedies for, 401 

CUPBOARDS, damp, to dry, 251 

CURRANTS, nutritive quality of, 
335 

CURTAINS, to restore eeru color 
of, 141, 142 

DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSE- 
HOLD WORK, 264 

DARNING, 294 
various stitches in, 294 



COFFEE STAINS, 104, 105, 393 DEODORIZERS, 403 



INDEX 



4J5 



DETERSIVES, 96, 240 
in laundry, 13 
value of inilk among, 102 

DIGESTION, to promote, 333 

DINING-ROOM, daily care of, 
266 

DINNER, service at table, 273 
table, arrangement of, 272 

DISHES, appliances for wash- 
ing, 257 

instructing maid how to wash, 
271 

preparation for washing, 257 

DISINFECTANT, for bad-smell- 
ing pillows, 223 

DIVISION OF INCOME, 3 

DOMESTIC MATERIA MED- 
ICA, 331 

DOMESTIC REMEDIES, bites, 
frost, decoction for curing, 
354 
bites, poisonous, treatment for, 

354 
bites, snake, specific for, 355 
bites, snake, treatment for, 354 
boils, bread ppultice for, 350 
boils, green fig poultice for, 

350 
bread poultice, how to make, 

350 
bunions, cause pf and treat- 
ment for, 361 
burned mouth, milk and lime- 
water for, 350 



burns and scalds, baking soda 

for, 352 
burns and scalds, dry flour for, 

353 
burns and scalds, emulsion of 

castor oil for, 351 
burns and scalds, linseed oil and 

lime-water for, 351 
burns, paste of wood soot and 

lard for, 353 
camphor, various uses in illness, 

400 
callous spots, 362 
chilblains, various remedies for, 

364 
choked child, to treat, 358 
cold, camphor for, 346, 400 
eold and bronchial cough, mul- 
lein tea for, 345 
cold, sassafras tea for, 368 
eold feet, to cure, 361 
cold tea as eye-wash, 349 
corns, hard, to cure, 405 
corns, how to make poultice for, 

361 
corns, proper and improper 

treatment of, 361 
corns, soft, to cure, 404 
croup, 401 

crushed finger or toe, 355 
cuts and bruises, ointment for, 

365 
dandelion tea, recipe for, 348 
disinfectant, sulphur as, 401 
disordered bowels, use of gar- 
den mint for, 347 
disordered liver, dandelion tea 

for, 348 



414 THE HOUSEKEEPEK'S WEEK 



non-washable articles of dress, 

to, 114 
paint, to, 395 
plaster figures, to, 236 
precious stones, to, 144 
ribbons, to, 56 
sewing-machine, to, 238 
silks, black, to, 53 
silks, fast-colors> to, 54 
Silks, wash-, to, 55 
sponges, to, 388 
stuffs, white, to, 137 
stuffs, dark wool, to, 58 
summer hats, to, 131-133 
utensils, to, 245-249 
velvet, several methods, to, 

121 
walls, to, 201 
wall-paper, to, 202 
windows, to, 208 
zinc, to, 244 

CLEANING, dry, 116 
house, 301 

textiles, to remove, ring left by, 
387 

CLOTH, to remove wrinkles in, 

122 
CLOTHES-LINE AND PINS, 

care of, 24 

CLOTHS, for cleaning, care of, 
269 
dust, 269, 299 

COAL OIL, use in stopping 
mosquito breeding, 168 



COLD WATER PROCESS, for 
blankets, 41 

COLORED COTTONS, care of 
in laundry, 20, 48 

COLORS, to set, 143 

COMFORTABLES, how to wash, 
223 

COMPLEXION, to improve, 335 
CONSTIPATION, 332, 334, 337 

COOKING, value in study of, 5 

COPPER, to burnish 392 
to clean, 246 

CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE, rec- 
ipe for paste of, 177 

COTTONS, to bleach faded, 387 

CRAPE, black, several methods 
of renovating^ 386 

CROUP, remedies for, 401 

CUPBOARDS, damp, to dry, 251 

CURRANTS, nutritive quality of, 
335 

CURTAINS, to restore ecru color 
of, 141, 142 

DAILY ROUTINE OF HOUSE- 
HOLD WORK, 264 

DARNING, 294 
various stitches in, 294 



COFFEE STAINS, 104, 105, 393 DEODORIZERS, 403 



INDEX 



415 



DETERSIVES, 96, 240 
in laundry, 13 
value of rnilk among, 102 

DIGESTION, to promote, 333 

DINING-ROOM, daily care of, 
266 

DINNER, service at table, 273 
table, arrangement of, 272 

DISHES, appliances for wash- 
ing, 257 

instructing maid how to wash, 
271 

preparation for washing, 257 

DISINFECTANT, for bad-smell- 
ing pillows, 223 

DIVISION OF INCOME, 3 

DOMESTIC MATERIA MED- 
ICA, 331 

DOMESTIC REMEDIES, bites, 
frost, decoction for curing, 
354 
bites, poisonous, treatment for, 

354 
bites, snake, specific for, 355 
bites, snake, treatment for, 354 
boils, bread poultice for, 350 
boils, green fig poultice for, 

350 
bread poultice, how to make, 

350 
bunions, cause of and treat- 
ment for, 361 
burned mouth, milk and lime- 
water for, 350 



burns and scalds, baking soda 

for, 352 
burns and scalds, dry flour for, 

353" 
burns and scalds, emulsion of 

castor oil for, 351 
burns and scalds, linseed oil and 

lime-water for, 351 
burns, paste of wood soot and 

lard for, 353 
camphor, various uses in illness, 

400 
callous spots, 362 
chilblains, various remedies for, 

364 
choked child, to treat, 358 
cpld, camphor for, 346, 400 
cold and bronchial cough, mul- 
lein tea for, 345 
eold, sassafras tea for, 368 
cold feet, to cure, 361 
cold tea as eye-wash, 349 
corns, hard, to cure, 405 
corns, how to make poultice for, 

361 
corns, proper and improper 

treatment of, 361 
corns, soft, to cure, 404 
croijp, 401 

crushed finger or toe, 355 
cuts and bruises, ointment for, 

365 
dandelion tea, recipe for, 348 
disinfectant, sulphur as, 401 
disordered bowels, use of gar- 
den mint for, 347 
disordered liver, dandelion tea 

for, 348 



416 THE HOUSEKEEPEB'S WEEK 



earache, use of laudanum in 

relieving, 358 
eczema, " jimson " ointment 

for, 364 
eczema of the ears, recipe for 

local application, 366 
eczema, sulphur for, 402 
eczema, treatment for, 366 
eyelids, inflamed, poultice for, 

361 
eyelids, inflamed, wash for, 

360, 361 
eyes, care of the, 359 
eyes, bad effect /of electric light 

on, 359 
felons and other sores, poultice 

of plaintain leaf for, 349 
flaxseed poultice, how to make, 

349 
green fig poultice, how to make, 

350 
headache, dandelion tea for, 

348 
hives, several ways of treating, 

368, 351 
hot-water bandages, 401 
ingrowing nail, methods of 

treating, 363 
inflammation of lungs, flaxseed 

poultice for, 349 
internal excoriation, 350 
" jimson " weed, curative prop- 
erties of, 364 
mouth-wash, tincture of myrrh 

as, 400 
mullein tea, variety of uses, 345 
mustard plaster for headache, 

399 



mustard plaster, substitute for, 

399 
mustard plaster, to keep from 

blistering, 399 
nausea, black coffee for, 349 
nausea, camphor for, 346, 400 
nausea, cracked ice for, 399 
nausea, dandelion tea for, 348 
nightmare, to prevent, 328 
nose-bleed, to stop, 402 
painter's cholera, for, 403 
perspiration, to alleviate, 402 
poison ivy, indications of poi- 
soning from, 366 
poison ivy, sassafras tea to re- 
lieve eruptions from, 367 
poison ivy, other treatment of 

eruptions caused by, 368 
poisons, active, raw eggs as an- 
tidote to, 350 
poisons, non-corrosive, mustard 

as antidote to, 349 
poisons, opium, black coffee as 

antidote to, 349 
poultice for corns, how to make, 

361 
prickly heat, to relieve erup- 
tions from, 369 
rheumatism, sulphur for, 402 
sage tea, how to make, 349 
sassafras tea as blood reno- 
vator, 368 
snoring, to prevent, 328 
soda salve, how to make, 352 
sore and aching feet, 362 
sore mouth, decoction of straw- 
berry leaves for, 349 



sore throat, gargle of sage tea 

for, 349 
sprain, methods of treating, 

356 
sprain, wormwood decoction 

for, 356 
stings, alkali for, 367 
strangury, parsley root tea for, 

348 
strangury, watermelon and 

pumpkin seed tea for, 348 
sulphur as blood purifier, 402 
sunburn, 358 
swallowing a pin, 356 
thrash, to prevent, 400 
tonsilitis and quinsy, 399 
vegetable tonic and cough med- 
icine, recipe for, 347 
Virginia snake-root, curative 

properties of, 347 
Virginia snake-root, how to 

prepare, 347 
vomiting, to prevent after 

anaesthetic, 369 
warts, several cures for, 369 

DOMESTIC SURGERY AND 
COGNATE MATTERS, 351 

DOUGH, kneading the, 87-89 
sensitive quality of, 92 

DOWN QUILTS, how to wash 
224 

DRAINS, of bath-room, flushing 
the, 230 
kitchen sink, cause of stoppage 
in, 240 



INDEX 417 

DRAIN PIPE, to clean any, 233 



DRAWERS, bureau, to keep 
from sticking, 384 

DRY-CLEAN, chamois leather, 

to, 131 
fabrics, 116, 118, 119 
parasols of silk and pongee, to, 

120 
rags, several methods, to, 117 
velvet, to, 120 

DRY-CLEANING, 116 

DUCK, to clean hats of, 131 

DUSTER, feather, care of, 224 

DUSTING, a consideration of, 
268 

DUVETS, down, how to wash, 
223 

DYE, tan shoes, to, 128 
white and light-colored leather, 

to, 129 
to destroy odor of, 144 

DYEING, fabrics, recipes and 
directions for, 395 

DYSPEPSIA, 333, 343 

EARTH, fullers', recipe for paste 
of, 115 
fullers', to clean with, 122 

EARTHENWARE, cement for 
mending, 248 

ECZEMA, nature of disease and 
treatment for, 364 



418 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



EGGS, antidote to active poisons, 

350 
composition and food values of, 

339 
how affected by cooking, 340 
most healthful way of cooking, 

340 
nourishment in, 339 
raw, digestible quality of, 340 
storing for Winter, 287 
to test, 287 
ways of preserving, 397 

EGG STAINS, 134 

EMETICS, eggs, raw, antidote to 
active poison, 350 
mustard, antidote to non-cor- 
rosive poison, 349 
salt and water, 350 

ENAMEL OR TIN CANDLE- 
STICKS, to clean, 237 

ERMINE, to bleach, 124 
to prevent yellowing, 124 

ERYSIPELAS, specific for, 334 

ETHER AND ALCOHOL, cau- 
tion in use of, 141 

EYES, care of, 359 

FABRICS, recipes and. directions 

for dyeing, 395 
to dry-clean, 116, 119 
io remove " shine " from, 139 
use of fullers' earth in cleaning 

neutral colored, 122 

FAT, from soups, to remove, 384 



FEATHERS, pillow, to clean, 
221 
to clean and renovate, 135 

FILLING, use of for rugs, 183 

FIREPROOF, to render stuffs, 
353 
solutions, recipes for, 353 

FISH, 281 

FLAT-IRONS, care of, 245 
to clean 4 389 
to take roughness from, 388 

FLANNELS, care of, 18, 38 
hot-water process for, 45 
method of washing baby's, 393 

FLEAS) to rid animals of, 156, 
396 
to rid house of) several meth- 
ods, 155 

FLlES, in house, to prevent, 168, 

169 
to keep from dumb animals, 

170 
to keep from windows, 170 » 

FLOORS, cleaning with kerosene, 
197 
cloths for cleaning, 197 
coverings for, 183-193 
effect of water upon, 193 
formulas for making and ap- 
plying polish, 199 
formulas for polish producing 

bright surface, 201 
hardwood, daily care of, 198 



INDEX 



419 



laying and oiling Hardwood, 
196 

how to clean imitation of hard- 
wood, 197 

how to prepare oil for var- 
nished, 200 

how to remove old varnish or 
paint, 197 

kitchen, difficulty in keeping 
clean, 267 

linoleum, care of, 191 

method of making wax for, 201 

oiled and hardwood, 195 

painted, care of, 193 

staining, recipe for, 197' 

tiled, use and care of, 205 

tiled, to brighten, 250 

varnished and waxed, 200 

FLOORS, WALLS AND 
THEIR COVERINGS, 181 

FLOUR, as an absorbent, 139 
how to test, 85 

to correct effect of tight-pack- 
ing in, 86 

FLOUR AND BORAX, use in 
dry-cleaning, 118 

FLOWERS, to freshen cut, 405 

FLYPAPER, sticky, stains of, 
109 

FOOD, digestion of, 338 
disposal of in ice-chest, 270 
economy in buying, 277, 279, 

283, 285 
mastication of, 338 
remedial values in, 331 



FORMALDEHYDE, 178 

FRAMES, gilt, recipes for clean- 
ing and regilding, 217 

FRENCH CHALK, recipe for 
paste of, 115 
use in removing grease spots, 
113 

FRIDAY, 146-180 

FRONT, care of the, 265 

FRUIT, buying according to the 
season, 283 
cans, how to sterilize, 311 
choice of, for jelly, 310 
composition of, 335 
decrease in home canning of, 

285 
how to pare, 310 
medicinal and nutritive quali- 
ties of, 333-337 
rules for canning, 310 
utensils used in canning, 310 
when to buy, for canning, 310 

FRUIT STAINS, 104-107, 390 

FULLERS' EARTH, use in 
cleaning neutral colored arti- 
cles, 122 
paste of, for removing grease 
stains, 115 

FURNISHINGS, care of house- 
hold, 181, 208, 228, 252 
in bath-room, 228 

FURNITURE, brass, care of, 226 
cleanser, recipe for, 219 



420 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



cane-seated, to clean, 391 
enameled, care of, 227 
hardwood, to clean, 215 
lacquered, care of, 226 
leather, to clean and restore, 

218 
polish, recipes for, 199, 213, 

214 
polished, to clean, 212 
to remove scratches and white 

spots from, 213 
to rid of moths, 155 
upholstered, to keep moths out 

of, 153 
varnish, to apply, 214 
wax for polishing, recipe, 214 
wax, to clean and polish, 214 
willow, to clean, 390 

FURNITURE AND WINDOWS, 
care of, 208 

TURS, to clean, 123 

FURS AND WOOLENS, putting 
away, 151 

GALVANIZED IRON, to re- 
move rust from, 241 

GAME, how to pick, 389 

GARDENING, care of finger 
nails in, 392 
calla lily, 406 
hyacinths, 405 
use of sulphur in, 405 

GAS, coal, contamination of air 
by, 323 
carbonic acid, 324 



range, 241 
sewer, 229, 308 

GASOLINE, 38 
emulsion for washing, recipe, 

38 
excellence and peril in cleaning 

with, 114 
method of cleaning clothing 

with, 115 
value in destroying vermin, 154 

GILDING, to clean, 206 
fluids, recipes for, 217 

GLASS, cut, caution concerning, 
260 
cut, to rid cruets of discolora- 
tion, 260 
cut, to temper, 260 
how to wash, 258 
to clean globes, 237 
to clean water bottle, 261 
to remove paint from, 391 

GLASS, SILVER, CHINA, care 
of, 252 

GLASS STOPPER, to loosen, 

261 » 

GLOVES, paste for cleaning, rec- 
ipe, 127 
to renovate black kid, 127 
various ways of cleaning, 125 

GLUE, to remove, 144 

GLYCERIN, 105 

GOVERNMENT WHITE- 
WASH, recipe for, 204 



INDEX 

GRANITE WARE, to clean, 245 
GRASS STAINS, 111, 393 



421 



GRAVEL OR BILIARY CAL- 
CULI, 333 

GREASE, axle, to remove, 107 

stains, 394 

stains from wallpaper, to re- 
move, 386 

to cut in pipes of kitchen sink, 
240 

to remove from pots and ket- 
tles, 245 

to remove from range, 242 

to remove from soups and 
gravy, 384 

GYMNASTICS, rules for gentle, 
317 

HAIR, to destroy vermin in, 175 
to whiten yellowish gray, 404 

HANGING CLOTHES OUT TO 
DRY, 26 

HARTSHORN, 97 

HATS, felt, to clean, 123 
summer, to clean, 131-133 

HEAT, amount necessary for 
baking, 90, 94 
heat-producing qualities of 
meat diet, 338 

HOT-WATER PROCESS, for 
flannels, 45 

HOUSE, care of, 7 
linen, mending of, 291 



order in directing affairs of, 

1-9 
preparations for closing, 154, 

308 



HOUSE-CLEANING, 182 
articles needed for, 304 
attic, 304 
bedrooms, order of cleaning, 

305 
best time for, 302 
closets and drawers, 304 
down-stairs, order in cleaning, 

306 
implements necessary for, 182 
object of chapter on, 303 
old-fashioned method of, 301 
rugs, 305 

summary of program for, 306 
value of program in, 303 
where to begin, 303 

HOUSE-CLEANING, 301 

HOUSEHOLD, accounts, 4 
industry, decline of sewing as, 

289 
management, place of sewing 

in, 290 
pests, 146, 162 
pests, bedbugs, 176 
pests, flies, 168 
pests, mice and rats, 171 
pests, mosquitoes, 166 
pests, roaches and water-bugs, 

162 
work, daily routine of, 264 

HOUSEKEEPER, the ideal, 262 
the over-anxious, 262 



422 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



HOUSEKEEPING, business of, 

classified, 3 
in summer, 307-309 
price of good, 262 
summary of daily program in, 

264 
value of culinary department 

in, 5 
value of planned, 2 
value of typewritten order of 

duties for maid, 264 
varying conditions of labor in 

various households, 264 
"without tears," 263 

INCOME, division of, 3 

INFLAMMATION OF STOM- 
ACH, 332 

INFLUENZA, 333 

INK STAINS, 97-104, 106 
on leather, to remove, 130 

INSECTS, 160, 166, 170, 174 
to exterminate, 176 

INSOMNIA, 333 
and sleep, 323 
remedies for, 326 

INTESTINAL TROUBLES, 332 

IODINE STAINS, 110 

IRON, mold from fabrics, to re- 
move, 106, 393 
rust on fabrics, 107 
to remove rust from, 390 

IRONING, arrangements for, 63 
boards, care of, 71 



care of clothes after, 71 
general directions for, 66 
necessary appliances for, 64 
sorting clothes for, 66 

IRONS, care of, 70, 245 
to clean, 389 
to clean sticky, 245 
to rid of roughness, 388 

IRONWARE, to clean outside of, 
249 
treatment of, 247 

IVORY-HANDLED KNIVES, 
care of, 249 

JAVELLE WATER, how to 
make, 33 
in the laundry, 32 
use in cleaning graniteware, 245 
use in removing stains, 107 



JET PASSEMENTARIE, 
clean, 144 



to 



KALSOMINE WALLS, to clean, 
201 

KEROSENE, 249 

death to insect life, 176 
emulsion (1), method of mak- 
ing and using, 31 
emulsion (2), method of mak- 
ing and using, 32 
emulsion of, for destroying 

aphides, 173 
stains, 113 

use of, in cleaning painted 
floor, 194 



INDEX 



423 



KETTLE, copper, to clean, 246 
iron, treatment of, 247 

KID GLOVES AND SLIP- 
PERS, to clean, 127 

KITCHEN, care of painted walls 

in, 205 
floor, difficulty in keeping clean, 

267 
disposal of daily supplies in, 

267 
lore, odds and ends' of, 248 
utensils, to clean and care for, 

245-249 
value of written menu in, 267 

KITCHEN AND PANTRIES, 
daily eare of, 267 

KNEADING BREAD, advantage 
of marble slab for, 89 
proper way of, 87 
second, 89 

KNIVES, to restore color of 
ivory-handled, 249 
to sharpen, 388 

LACE, to dry-clean with boracic 
talcum, 118 
to restore ecru, 141 

LAMB, 280 

LAMP CHIMNEYS, to temper, 
261 

LAMPS, cause of explosion in, 
249 
how to fill, 249 
to keep from smelling, 385 



LAMP-WICKS, 385 
LARKSPUR, tincture of, 175 

LAUNDRY, blankets, cold-water 

process for, '41 
blankets, method of washing, 

43 
bluing, home-made, recipe for, 

35 
bluing, precaution in use of, 21 
boiling the clothes, recipe for 

kerosene emulsion (2) to be 

used in, 32 
borax in, 16 

care of clothes after ironing, 71 
chamois vests, how to wash, 48 
clothes, treatment before wash- 
ing, 14, 15, 16 
clothes-line and pins, care of, 

24 
cloths for cleaning, care of in, 

269 
colored cottons, treatment of, 

48 
colored cottons and linens, 20 
cottons, setting the color in, 49 
detersives, 13 
devices for making washing 

easy, 30 
flannels, baby's, how to wash, 

393 
flannels, hot-water process for, 

45 
flannels, how to wash, 18 
flannels, to prevent shrinkage 

in, 19 
flannels, use of borax in wash- 
ing, 38 



424 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



gasoline emulsion for washing, 
recipe for, 38 

general directions for washing, 
16 

hanging clothes out to dry, 26 

injurious effect of green soap 
in, 16 

method of starching delicate- 
tinted fabrics, 50 

method of starching thin, dark- 
colored fabrics, 51 

orris-root, use in, 68 

paraffin in, 37 

rinsing, 17 

separate, value of, 11 

set tubs, 11 

silks, treatment of in, 52 

soaking the clothes, 14, 15 

soaking the clothes, recipe for 
kerosene emulsion to be used 
in, 31 

soap powder, how to make and 
use, 34 

sorting the clothes, 15 

sorting clothes for ironing, 66 

sprinkling and folding the 
clothes, 27 

stains, first treatment of, 15 

starching and bluing, 21 

starch for colored goods, how 
used, 50 

starch, method of using, 23 

starch, non-adhesive, 35 

starch, paraffin in, 23 

starch, rules for making, 22 

starch, salt in, 22 

tub, care of, 15 



washing fluid, how to make and 

use, 39 
washing-machine, 12 
wash-silks, treatment of, 55 
wool and silk stuff, white, how 

to wash, 137 
woolens, colored cottons and 

linens, 41 
wioolens, to restore shrunken, 

47 
woolen stockings, to prevent 

shrinkage in, 46 
wringer, 12 

LEATHER, chamois, to dry- 
clean, 131 
patent, to clean, 129 
to clean tan shoes of, 128 
to clean various articles of, 128- 

131 
to dye tan shoes of, 128 
to remove ink from, 130 
valise, to clean, 130 
to render, water-proof, 392 
white and light-colored, to dye, 
129 

LEATHER FURNITURE, to , 
clean and restore, 218 

LEGHORN, methods of cleaning, 
'132 

LEMONS, remedial value of, 334 
LIBRARY, 239 

LIME, to remove from kettle, 398 
water in milk, 341, 350 



INDEX 



425 



LINEN, to remove egg stains 
from, 134 

LINOLEUM, 191 
treatment of, 192 

LIVER TROUBLE, 333 

LOOSENESS OF BOWELS, 
332, 334 

LUNCHEON TABLE, use of 
mats on, 272 

MAGNESIA, 120 

MAID, typewritten order of du- 
ties for, 264 

MALARIA, through mosquito 
bites, 166 

MALARIAL FEVER, preventive 
of, 334 

MARBLE slab, for kneading, 
bread, 89 
to bleach discolored, 232 
to clean, 232 
to clean statuettes of, 235 
to remove stains on, 232, 233 

MARKETING, according to the 

season, 283 
ahead, value of, 275 
anatomy of animals, necessity 

of studying, 277 
apples, 337 

at the department store, 286 
beef, aitch bone, 279 
beef, analysis of hind quarter, 

278 



beef, best cuts for roasting and 
broiling, 277 

beef, brisket, use of, 278 

beef, expensive cuts of, 277 

beef, flank, 279 

beef, how to choose soup-bone 
of, 281 

beef, mistakes of inexperienced 
housekeepers in buying, 277 

beef, hip sirloin, 279 

beef, how to buy fillet of, 279 

beef, liver, indications of 
disease, 280 

beef, parts and uses of fore 
quarter, 278 

beef, pot-roasts, pieces suitable 
for, 278 

beef, rib roast, 278 

beef, shin, 278 

beef, sirloin, 277, 279 

beef, tenderloin, 279 

beef, tests of good, 278 

beef, where to find best soup- 
bone, 278 

beefsteak, extravagance in use 
of, 278 

beefsteak, process of marinat- 
ing, 279 

butter, 288 

buying in quantities, 284 

disposal of daily supplies, 267 

eggs, to store, 287 

eggs, to test, 287 

filling store-room for winter, 
285 

fish as an element of diet, 281 

fish for baking, 282 

fish for boiling, 282 



426 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S t WEEK 



fish for frying, 282 

fish, tests of good, 282 

fruit, 335 

fruit and vegetables, 282 

household necessities for store 

closet, 287 
how to save on winter supplies, 

285 
milk, 287 
milk, to test, 287 
monthly supplies for store- 
closet, 286 
mutton, nutritious qualities of, 

280 
peaches, 334 
pork, necessity of thorough 

cooking, 280 
pork, tests of, 280 
pork, when to use, 280 
poultry, tests of good, 282 
value of fruit and vegetable 

chart in, 283 
store-closet, list of necessities 

for, 287 
store-room, filling for winter, 

285 
veal, choice cuts of, 281 
veal, knuckle of, 281 
veal, tests of,. 281 
vegetables, green, when to buy, 

284 
vegetables, root, value of, 283 
vegetables, winter, care of, 284 
weekly menu as aid to, 275 
winter, 284 

MARKETING AND WINTER 
SUPPLIES, 275 



MATTING, 183, 190 
rugs of, 190 

MATTRESSES, care of, 220 
to avoid hollows in, 372 
to clean, 221 

MAYONNAISE, how to beat, 
386 
to restore curdled, 385 

MEAT, as an article of diet, 276 
health values of, 337 
raw, care of, 250 
remedial qualities in, 337-339 

MEDICINE, fruit as, 335 

MENDING DAY, 290 

MENU, daily, value of, 267 
weekly, aid in marketing, 275 

MICE, use of camphor in getting 
rid of, 385 
use of tar in getting rid of, 
150 

MICE AND RATS, methods of 
riddance from, 171 

MILDEW, to remove, 106, 107, 
112 

MILK, care in buying, 287 
nutritive qualities of, 341 
stains on glass, 390 
value as detersive, 103 

MIRRORS, to clean, 210 
to polish, 211 
to re-silver, 211 



INDEX 



427 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS, 382 

MOLASSES, value in removing 
stains from delicate fabrics, 
111 

MONDAY, 10, 21, 30, 41, 52 

MOSQUITOES, 166 
methods of ridding house of, 

167 
use of turpentine in getting 

rid of, 153 

MOTHER-OF-PEARL, to clean, 
237 

MOTHS, in carpets, to destroy, 
155 
in furniture, to destroy, 155 
in rugs, to destroy, 154 
nature of, 150 
silver-, to exterminate, 153 
to keep from upholstered fur- 
niture, 153 
turpentine as preventive of, 152 
ubiquitous quality of, 147 
use of naphtha to destroy, 385 

MUDDY COMPLEXIONS, cure 
for, 333 

MUD STAINS, 111, 142 

MUSTARD PLASTER, substi- 
tute for, 399 
to keep from blistering, 399 

MUTTON, nutritious qualities of, 
280 

NAPHTHA, 385 
danger in using, 116 



NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA, 333 

NERVOUS TROUBLES, 332 

NICKEL FITTINGS, to remove 
stove polish from, 251 

NICKEL PLATE, trimmings of, 
to clean, 242 

NIGHTMARE AND SNORING, 
328 

NURSING, importance of know- 
ledge about, 370 
value of good, 312 

OCHRE, yellow, 141 

ODDS AND ENDS OF RENO- 
VATING, 128 

ODOR OF PAINT, to remove 
from new refrigerator, 250 

ODORS, use of alum water in 
removing, 394 

OIL, cedar, 239 
floor, use in weekly cleaning, 

200 
lamp, 249 
olive, 242 
paraffin, 238 
sewing-machine, for polishing 

brass, 226 
sweet, '242, 308 

OIL-CLOTH, 191 
treatment of, 192 

OILING FLOORS, 196 

ORRIS-ROOT, use in laundry, 68 



428 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



OSTRICH PLUMES, to clean 
and renovate, 135 

OUTHOUSES, sanitary quality 
of whitewash in, 204 

OVEN, preparation of, for bak- 
ing, 90 
temperature of, for baking, 90, 
94 

OXALIC ACID, 100, 232 
danger to fabric in use of, 99 
for ink stain, 100 

PADS, for polishing furniture, 
how to make, 214 

PAINT, how to clean, 395 
how to clean varnished, 207 
or varnish, to remove from 

wood, 197 
to remove from wood, 197 

PAINTINGS, of oil, to clean, 
215 

PAINT STAINS, to remove 
from fabric, 108, 109 
to remove from wood and glass, 
391 

PANTRY, use of charcoal in, 
389 
and kitchen, daily care of, 267 

PANAMA, hats of, to clean, 132 

PAPER, blotting, as an absorb- 
ent, 113 
to remove from wall, 203 
wall, to remove grease stains 
from, 202 



PARAFFIN, as a cleansing 
agent, 37 
use in exterminating insects, 
170 

PARASOLS, to dry-clean, 120 

PATCHING, 296-298 

PEACHES, medicinal quality of, 
334 

PENNYROYAL, 155 

PEROXIDE OF HYDROGEN, 
132, 403 

PERSPIRATION, 254 
to destroy odor of, 144 
to induce, 333 

PERSPIRATION STAINS, 55, 
112 

PEWTER AND BRITANNIA, 
care of, 247 

PHOSPHORIC ACID, 336 

PHYSICAL CULTURE, how to 
derive benefit from, 319 

PIANO, care of, 238 

PILLOWS, feather, how to sun, 
222 
feather, to clean, 221 
feather or down, to wash, 224 
pine-needle, how to make, 392 
to disinfect, 223 
to remove spots from covers of, 
222 

PIPES, disinfecting, 230 
escape, to clean, 233 



INDEX 



429 



kitchen sink, flushing, 241 
stove, to prevent rust on, 243 
stove, to prevent soot in, 244 
water closet, flushing, 230 

PITCH, stains, to remove from 
fabric, 108 

PLAN OP DAILY WORK, 264 

PLANT-LICE, to destroy, 173 

PLANTS, calla lily, care of, 406 
hyacinth, care of, 405 
to rid of insects, 174 
use of sulphur in care of, 405 

PLASTER FIGURES, to clean, 
236 

PLUMBING, disinfecting, 230 
drain or escape pipe, to clean, 

233 
flushing the pipes, 230 
grease, cause of stoppage in 

kitchen pipes, 240 
stationary wash-stand, 228 
treatment of, before closing 

house, 308 

POISONOUS BITES, treatment 
for, 354 

POISONS, antidotes for various, 
349, 350 
of the skin, treatment for, 364 

POLISH, floor, formulas for, 

199, 201 
for nickel-plate and silverware, 

recipe for, 233 
furniture, recipes for, 213 



silver, injurious effect of, 253 
steel ornaments, to, 145 
stove, how to apply, 243 
stove, recipes for making, 243 
stove, to remove from nickel 
fittings, 251 

PORCELAIN, bowls, sinks, tubs, 
to clean, 231 
cause of stains on, 231 
to clean, 231 

PORK, 280 

PORTER-HOUSE, 277 

POT-ROASTS, 278 

POULTRY, tests of good, 282 

PRECIOUS STONES, to clean, 
144 

PUMICE STONE, 266 

RANGE, coal, to clean rust and 

grease from, 242 
directions for cleaning, 241 
how to make ash-sifter for, 244 
nickel-plate trimmings of, to 

clean, 242 

RATS AND MICE, methods of 
riddance from, 171 

REDNESS OP THE NOSE, to 
reduce, 335 

REFRIGERATOR, daily care of, 
270 
disposal of food in, 270 
in sick room, 375 
to keep ants from, 398 



430 THE HOTTSEKEEPEE'S WEEK 



REGISTERS, dry-air, care of in 
sweeping and dusting, 387 

REMEDIES, domestic, See Do- 
mestic Remedies 

REMEDIES IN FOOD, acid 
stomach; lime-water in the 
milk, 341 
apples, opinions of science con- 
cerning, 336 
apples, value as diet, 336 
bile; fruits as antidote for, 336 
biliary calculi; spinach a solvent 

of, 333 
bilious disorders; onions for, 

333 
bilious troubles, 337 
bilious troubles, lemons for, 334 
blackberries as tonic, 334 
black raspberries and strawber- 
ries, medicinal properties of, 
334 
blood; currants as purifier of 

the, 335 
cancerous diseases; figs for, 334 
complexion; fruit, to improve, 

335 
constipation; apples for, 337 
constipation; apple sauce, hom- 
iny, mush, grits, boiled milk 
for, 332 
Constipation; figs for, 334 
constipation; olive oil for, 348 
digestion, asparagus to pro- 
mote, 333 
diseases of the blood, spinach 
for, 333 



diseases of the blood, tomatoes 

for, 333 
dyspepsia, 343 
dyspepsia, dietary for, 344 
dyspepsia, foods to avoid in, 

343 
dyspepsia, tomatoes for, 333 
eczema of the ears, dietary for, 

365 
eggs, composition of, 340 
eggs, how affected by cooking, 

340 
eggs, nourishment in, 339 
eggs, raw; digestible quality of, 

340 
eggs, wholesome way of cook- 
ing, 340 
erysipelas, cranberries as spe- 
cific for, 334 
fish, health values of, 339 
fruit, caution concerning use of, 

335 
fruit, medicinal and nutritive 

qualities of, 335, 336 
fruit, value of, for dyspeptics, 

344 
gravel, spinach a solvent of, 

333 
inflammation of stomach, rice 

for, 332 
influenza, onions for, 333 
insomnia, lettuce for, 333 
insomnia, onions for, 333 
intestinal trouble, rice for, 332 
liver troubles, tomatoes for, 333 
looseness of bowels, blackberries 

for, 334 



INDEX 



431 



malarial fever, lemons prevent- 
ive of, 334 

meats, caution to full-blooded 
concerning use of, 338 

meats in summer, difficulty of 
digesting, 338 

meats in summer, thorough 
mastication necessary for, 
338 

milk, nutritive qualities, 341 

milk, lime-water in, 341 

muddy complexion, onions as 
steady diet for, 333 

necessary knowledge of, 331 

nervous troubles, celery and 
onions for, 332 

olive oil, varjous curative prop- 
erties in, 348 

peaches, double medicinal qual- 
ity of, 334 

perspiration, asparagus to in- 
duce, 333 

redness of the nose, fruit for 
reducing, 335 

rheumatism, dietary for, 342 

rheumatism, remedy for, 333 

rheumatic gout, 333 

scrofula, cranberries to coun- 
teract tendency to, 334 

simplification of diet in sum- 
mer, 339 

summer complaint, milk for, 
332 

spinach, 333 

to prolong life by use of ap- 
ples, 336 

RHEUMATISM, dietary for, 342 



RHUBARB, effect upon the 
blood, 333 

RIBBONS, to clean, 56 

RINSING, 17 

RIPPING, 52, 299 

ROACHES, various ways of de- 
stroying, 162-166 

ROACHES AND WATER- 
BUGS, 162 

ROAST MEATS, effect upon the 
blood of, 338 

ROOM, sick, location and ar- 
rangement of, 371 

ROUTINE of daily household 

work, 264 
RUST, to remove from galvanized 

iron, 241 
to remove from iron or tin, 247 

RUST STAINS, to remove from 
fabrics, 107 
to remove from white fabric, 
103 

RUGS, of filling, serviceable qual- 
ity of, 183 

of matting, how to make, 190 

oriental, to wash, 185 

putting away, for houseclean- 
ing, 305 

to dry-clean, several methods, 
117, 184 

to prevent corners from curling, 
183 

to remove soot from, 133 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



432 

SALT, to prevent hardening of, 
388 

SATURDAY, 181, 208, 228, 252 

SCORCH STAINS, 112 

SCROFULA, 334 

SEALSKIN, to clean, 123 

SERVICE, table, elementary 
rules of, 273 

SETTING THE COLOR IN 
COTTON FABRICS, 143 
in cottons and linens, 49 

SEWER GAS, 228 
danger in and preventive of, 
229, 308 

SEWING, darning, 294 

darning damask, 295 

darning kid gloves, 296 

darning stockings, 294 

darning, stitches used in, 294 

decline of, as household indus- 
try, 289 

in household management, place 
of, 290 

implements necessary for, 292 

making ready for, 292 

mending day, necessity for reg- 
ular, 290 

needles, 292 

patching, 296 

patching, general directions for, 
296 

patching damask, 297 

patching flannel, 298 

patching heavy stuffs, 297 



patching household linen and 

underclothes, 296 
repairing hem of frayed skirts, 

298 
scissors, variety needed in, 292 
turning hem for table linen, 298 

SEWING-MACHINE, to clean, 
238 

SEWING-ROOM, advantage of, 
292 
furnishing the, 292 
ripping, an industry of the, 299 

SHEETS, of sick bed, to change, 
377 
how to fold after ironing, 73 

SHINE, from fabrics, several 
methods of removing, 139, 
389 

SHOES, to clean and renovate 
various kinds of, 128-130 
to prevent blistering the heel, 
130 

SICK, CARE OF THE, 370 

SICK ROOM, absence of adorn- 
ment in, 372 

bed, position and arrangement 
in, 373 

bed, rules for care of, 378 

behavior of visitors in, 379 

blankets, need for extra, 376 

dining table for, 378 

directions for changing sheets 
while patient is in bed, 377 

disinfectant for vessels in, 376 



INDEX 



433 



disposal of soiled clothing and 
evacuations in, 376 

drugs in order, keeping, 373 

flowers in, 375 

healing quality of sunlight in, 
374 

hot-water bag, 377 

how to ventilate, 374 

importance of cheerfulness in, 
380 

importance of fresh air in, 374 

importance of knowledge about 
nursing, 370 

importance of natural manner 
in, 380 

importance of self-control in, 
380 

location and arrangement of, 
371 

medicine table in, 373 

necessary attention to invalid's 
hair and teeth, 379 

necessary furnishings of, 372 

object of chapter on, 371 

refrigerator in, 375 

screen, why needed in, 373 

to clean without injury to pa- 
tient, 375 

treatment of vessels in, 376 

use of cracked ice in, 398 

visitors in, 379 

walls of, 372 

ways of keeping patient com- 
fortable, 376 

SIEVE, to wash a, 389 

SILK, black, to clean, 53 
fast-colored, how to wash, 54 



from yellowing, to prevent, 143 
to remove shine from, 139 
to wash, 52 
wash-, to clean, 55 

SILVER, 252 
how to keep clean without pol- 
ish, 252 
how to wash, 252 
injurious treatment of, 253 
preparation for laying away, 

254 
to prevent tarnish on, 254 
use of camphor in keeping 
bright, 254 

SILVER, CHINA AND GLASS, 
care of, 252 

SILVER-MOTHS AND BUF- 
FALO-BEETLES, to exter- 
minate, 153 

SIMPLES, serviceable, 345 

SINK, galvanized iron, to remove 
rust or grease from, 241 

kitchen, chloride or caustic soda, 
to cut grease in pipes of, 240 

kitchen, daily care of, 270 

kitchen, daily and weekly care 
of, 239 

kitchen, flushing, 240 

kitchen, flushing pipes of with 
caustic alkali, 241 

kitchen, solution of washing 
soda for cleansing and sweet- 
ening, 240 

kitchen, use of sieve in cleaning, 
240 



434 THE HOTTSEKEEPEB'S WEEK 



SLEEP AND INSOMNIA, 323 

SMARTWEED AND WILD 
PEPPERMINT, 170 

SNORING AND NIGHTMARE, 
to prevent, 328 

SOAKING THE CLOTHES, 
emulsion to be used in, 31 
before washing, 14, 15 

SOAP green, injurious effects of, 
16 
use for scraps of, 36 
value of age in, 234 

SOAP BARK, as cleanser, 59 
to remove shine from fabric, 
140 

SOAP JELLY, how to make and 
use, 36, 235 

SOAP POWDER, 34 

SODA, baking, use in healing 

burns, 352 
value in cleaning white paint 

and enamel, 205 
washing, 240 

SOLUTIONS TO RENDER 
STUFFS FIRE - PROOF, 
recipes for, 353 

SOOT, in stove pipe, to prevent, 
244 

SOOT STAINS, on carpet or rug, 
133 



SOURNESS IN BREAD- 
SPONGE, to correct, 87 

SPICES, use in ridding house of 
ants, 158 

SPINACH, ingredients and reme- 
dial values of, 333 

SPONGES, to clean, 233, 388 

SPRINKLING AND FOLDING 
DOWN THE CLOTHES, 27 

STAINING FLOORS, cost of 
material for, 198 
recipes for, 197 

STAINS, alcohol or cologne on 
shell, 386 

axle grease, 107 

blood, 403 

care necessary in removing, 98 

coal dust and perspiration, 125 

coffee and cream, 105 

coffee, black, 105 

coffee, 104 

egg, 134 

flypaper, sticky, 109 

from blankets, to remove, 383 

fruit, from linen, to remove, 
390 

fruit, several methods of re- 
moving, 104, 105, 106, 107 

grass, 111 

grass and coffee, 393 

grease, axle, 107 

grease, to remove by absorption, 
112, 113, 115 



INDEX 



435 



grease from linen, to remove, 
394 

grease from wall paper, to re- 
move, 202, 386 

grease from woolen stuff, to re- 
move, 139 

ink on leather, 130 

ink on linen, 103 

ink on the skin, 97 

ink on white goods, to remove, 
97 

ink, to remove with butter, 104 

ink, to remove with chloride 
of lime, 101 

ink, to remove with chlorinated 
soda, 99 

ink, to remove with cream of 
tartar, 99 

ink, to remove with grain alco- 
hol, 104 

ink, to remove with hand sa- 
polio, 97 

ink, to remove with Javelle 
waters, 15 

ink, to remove with kerosene 
and soap, 101 

ink, to remove with lemon juice, 
98 

ink, to remove with milk and 
lemon juice, 104 

ink, to remove with oxalic acid, 
100 

ink, to remove with salts of 
lemon, 100 

ink, to remove with sour milk, 
99 

ink, to remove with spirits of 
ammonia, 97 



ink, to remove with spirits of 
turpentine, 103 

ink, to remove with sweet milk 
and corn starch, 102 

ink, to remove with sweet milk 
and boracic talcum, 102 

iodine, 110 

iron mold, 106 

iron on marble, 232, 233 

iron rust on fabrics, 107 

mildew, 106, 107, 112 

milk or hot-water, on glass, 390 

mud, 111, 142 

on kitchen tables, to remove, 
393 

on mattress, to remove, 221 

on porcelain and enamel, to re- 
move, 251 

on porcelain, cause of, 231 

on wool, 144 

paint, 108, 109 

paint on wood, 201 

paint on wood and glass, 391, 
209 

perspiration, 55, 112 

perspiration and coal dust, 125 

pitch, 108 

ring left by sponging, 143 

rust, 112 

rust, to remove from nickel- 
plated, 232 

rust, to remove with cream of 
tarter, 103 

scorch, 112 

soot, 133 

tar, 108 

tea, 104, 105 



436 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



treatment of, before washing, 

15 
varnish on cloth, to remove, 144 
vegetable acids, harmlessness in 

extracting, 98 

STARCH, method of using, 23 
non-adhesive, recipe for, 35 
paraffin in, 23 
rules for making, 22 
salt in, 22 

STARCHING AND BLUING, 21 

STARCHING COLORED 
GOODS, method of, 50 

STARCHING DELICATE- 
TINTED FABRICS, method 
of, 50 
thin, dark-colored fabrics, 51 

STEEL ORNAMENTS, to pol- 
ish, 145 

STEEL, to remove rust from, 
390 

STONEWARE, cement for mend- 
ing, 248 

STORE-CLOSET, how it should 
be kept, 286 
necessary articles of food in, 
286 



STORE-ROOM, 
ioned, 284 



the old-fash- 



STOVE, kitchen, daily care of, 
271 
polish, how to apply any, 243 



polish, recipes for making, 243 
to clean rust and grease from, 
242 

STRAW HATS, white, to clean, 
131 

SULPHUR, 401, 402 
candle, method of using, 155 
cure for worm pests, 172 

SUMMARY, of daily program in 

housekeeping, 264 
of program for house-cleaning, 

306 
of rules for canning fruit, 310 
of rules for housekeeping in 

summer home, 309 

SUMMER COMPLAINT, 332 

SUNSHINE, 222 

SURGERY, domestic, 351 

SWEET OIL, 308 

TABLE breakfast, 272 
dining, care of, 266 
dining, pads for polishing, 214* 
dinner, arrangement of, 272 
laying the, 271 
linen, how to darn, 295 
linen, how to patch, 297 
linen, turning hem for, 298 
service, how the dishes should 

be moved, 274 
service, elementary rules of, 273 
service, for dinner, 273 
service, with one maid, 273 



INDEX 



437 



service, when it may be dis- 
pensed with, 273 
to protect, 213 

to protect from hot dishes, 272 
ware, instructing the maid how 

to wash, 271 
ware, china, how to wash, 258 
ware, order in washing, 257 
ware, silver, how to wash, 257 
TABLES kitchen, to remove 
stains from, 393 
recipes for waxing and rubbing, 
215 

TAR, use in ridding house of 
mice, 150 
camphor, for keeping away 
mice, 171 

TAB STAINS, 108 

TARTAR EMETIC, 158 

TEA, injurious effect of tannin 
in, 343 
kettle, care of, 398 

TEA STAINS, 104, 105 

TEMPERATURE OF OVEN 
FOR BAKING, 90, 94 

TENDERLOIN, 279 

THURSDAY, 96, 114, 128 

TILES, 205 

TIN OR ENAMEL, to clean can- 
dlesticks of, 237 

TINWARE, care of, 247, 248 



TOMATOES, as remedy for dis- 
ease, 333 

TONIC, blackberries as a, 334 

TRANSFER PRINT OR PHO- 
TOGRAPH, to, 396 

TUESDAY, 63 

TURPENTINE, 121 

inflammable quality of, 199 
use in exterminating household 
pests, 152 

UMBER, 198 

UMBRELLA, how to dry, 391 

UTENSILS, Britannia, 247 
care of bread-board, 249 
copper, to clean, 246 
earthenware, to mend, 248 
graniteware, to clean, 245 
how to wash sieve, 389 
iron and tin, treatment of, 247 
ironware, to clean outside of, 

249 
kitchen, cement for mending, 

248 
kitchen, to clean, 245 
pewter, how to care for, 247 
stoneware, to mend, 248 
teapots, tin, granite, iron, to 

keep sweet, 249 
tinware, care of, 248 
used in canning fruit, 310 

VARNISH, best for furniture, 
214 
to insure smooth, 214 
to remove from wood, 197 



438 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S WEEK 



VARNISH STAINS, on cloth, 
144 

VEAL, 281 

VEGETABLES, remedial quality 
in, 332, 333 

VEGETABLES AND FRUITS, 
according to the season, buy- 
ing, 283 

VEIL OF TISSUE OR 
CREPON, to clean, 141 

VELVET, several methods of 
cleaning, 121 
to renew, 121 

VENTILATION, in bath-room, 
228 
in bedroom, 323 
in sick room, 374 

VERDIGRIS, poisonous quality 
of, 246 
to remove, from copper, 246 

VERMIN, in the hair, 174-176 
mice, 385 
to destroy any sort of, 154 

VERMIN, HOUSEHOLD 

PESTS, 146, 162 

VIRGINIA SNAKE-ROOT, cur- 
ative properties of, 347 

WAITRESS, duties in serving, 
273 

"WALL PAPER, how to make 
and use cleaning mixture for, 
202 



to clean, 202 

to remove grease from, 386 

WALLS, burlap as covering for, 

205 
hard-finished, to clean, 201 
kalsomine, cleaning, 201 
mixture for cleaning, how to 

make and use, 202 
painted, care of, 194, 201 
to make fast screw in, 217 
to protect, in moving furniture, 

398 
to remove grease from paper 

on, 202 
to remove paper from, 203 
to stop a hole in, 203 
whitewash for, 204 
to wash painted bath-room, 205 
to wash painted kitchen, 205 

WALLS, FLOORS AND THEIR 
COVERINGS, 181 

WASHDAY, See Laundry 

WASHING, devices for making 

easy, 30 
fluid, how to make and use, 39 
soda, injurious effect in laundry* 

16 

WATER, alum, 394 
as an absorbent, 250 
cement that will resist hot or 

cold, 248 
effect of hot and cold in bath, 

321 
Javelle, 245 
marks on wood, to remove, 213 



INDEX 



439 



muddy, to purify, 386 
stains on glass, 390 
to purify, 386 

WATER-BUGS, to get rid of by 
borax, 241 

WATER-BUGS AND ROACH- 
ES, 162 

WAX, for floors, method of mak- 
ing, 201 
for polishing furniture, 214 

WEDNESDAY, 74, 84 

WEEK, care for every day in, 
262 
value of menu for the, 275 

WHITEWASH, government, rec- 
ipe for, 204 
government, to color, 204 



WILD PEPPERMINT 
SMARTWEED, 170 



AND 



WINDOWS, show, to free from 
frost, 210 
to clean diamond panes in, 209 
to keep flies from, 390 
when and how to wash, 208, 209 

WINDOWS AND FURNITURE, 
care of, 208 



WOOD, to remove marks on, 201 
to remove paint from, 391 

WOOL, to clean, 137 
to remove oil from, 139 

WOOLENS, to restore shrunken, 
47 

WOOLENS, COLORED COT- 
TONS AND LINENS, care 
in laundry, 41 

WOOLENS AND FURS, putting 
away, 151 

WORK, household, daily routine 
of, 264 

WORMS, cabbage, to destroy, 406 

WRINGER, 12 

WRINKLES IN CLOTH, to re- 
move, 122 

YEAST, 79 

cakes, home-made, recipe for, 

83 
home-made, superiority of, 80 
hop, recipe for, 81 
potato, recipe for, 82 

YELLOW OCHRE, 141 

ZINC, to clean, 244 



