Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



<^^ X ^d-MJ- 



THE UP-TO-DATE 
SANDWICH BOOK 



THE UP-TO-DATE 
SANDWICH BOOK 

400 Ways 
to Make a Sandwich 

By 

EVA GREENE FULLER 



CHICAGO 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

1909 






t 



V \ 



CopTrisHt 

A. C. McCIuiv & Co. 

1909 



PMUhed October, 1909 



Tho Cailoo Pke« 
Chicago 






CONTENTS 

FiA 7 

Egg 29 

SJad 39 

Me.1 61 

CheoM 101 

Nut 125 

SwMi • . . . 137 

Mucelluieolu 167 

Canapes 173 



FOREWORD 

THE first requisite in the preparation of good 
sandwiches is to have perfect bread in suit- 
able condition. Either \t4ute, brown, rye. or 
entire wheat bread may be used, but it ^ould 
be of close, even texture and at least one day old. 

Cream the butter with a wooden spoon and spread 
smoothly on the bread before it is cut; after cutting 
remove the crust and avoid spreading the butter or fill- 
ing over the edge. When ready to serve, cut the sand- 
wiches either square, triangular, long, narrow, round, 
or crescent shap)ed. 

In making rolled bread sandwiches, cut off the 
crust of a loaf of fresh bread and spread a thin layer 
of butter on one end of the loaf; cut off diis buttered 
^d in as thin a slice as possible and spread with the 
sandwich filling; roll up this slice and lay on a napkin; 
draw the napkin firmly around the rolled bread and 
pm it Put in a cool place until ready to serve, then 
remove napkin and tie the sandwiches with baby rib- 
bon or fasten with a tooth pick. 



Frendi rolls may be used for picnics and out-of- 
door luncheons. Remove horn the top of each roll 
a piece of die crust the size of a silver dollar, and with 
a spoon take out the centre. Fill the space with highly 
seasoned chopped meat, fish, lobster, or crab, replace 
lid, wrap in tissue paper, and serve wi^ pickles or olives. 

For very small, dain^ sandwiches to be served at 
afternoon teas or luncheons, the bread may be baked 
at home in pound baking powder cans. These should 
be only half filled, and then allowed to rise before 
baking. You then have a round slice without crusL 

A garnish such as the following may be used: 
For meat sandwiches, use pickles, olives, lettuce, water- 
cress, parsley, and mint For fish sandwiches, use 
pickles, olives, cress, parsley, slices of lemon, and hard- 
boiled egg. For cheese sandwiches, use pickles and 
olives. For sweet sandwiches, use lettuce, maiden hair 
fern, smilax, berries, flowers, and candied fruit 

To keep sandwiches fresh, if prepared an hour 
or two before serving, wring out a napkin in cold water 
and cover the tray and keep in a cool place or wrap 
in wax paper. 



FISH 



THE UP-TO-DATE 
SANDWICH BOOK 



OYSTER SANDWICH 

Chop law oysters fine, add a dash of tabasco sauce, 
lemon juice, and oil. Season with peppei and salt 
%>tead this on thinly cut slices of white bread, with a 
lettuce leaf between. 

FRIED OYSTER SANDWICH 
On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, 
place a lettuce leaf that has been dipped in mayon- 
naise dressing. Place fried oysters on lettuce leaf. 
Put slices together and garnish with a pickle. 

DEVILED OYSTER SANDWICH 
Cut slices of bread thin, remove crust, and toast 
Cover a slice with oysters, dust thickly with. red pepper 
and spread lightly with mayonnaise. Cover with an- 
other slice of toast. Garnish with a slice of lemon. 



'^-•-\-' ^' 



OYSTER LOAF SANDWICH 

Cut Vienna rolls into halves and spread lightly 
with butter; on one half lay four fried oysters, cover 
with the other half of roll, and serve with a pickle. 



OYSTER AND CAVIARESANDWICH 

Butter thin slices of brown bread, cover one slice 
thinly with caviare and on this lay two raw whole 
oysters; cover with another slice of bread and garnish 
mth slice of lemon. 



GRILL ROOM OYSTER SANDWICH 

Toast three shoes of white bread and lightly but- 
ter. Place fried oysters between the slices and dust 
lightly with pepper and salt. Cut in strips and serve 
on a lettuce leaf. Remove contents of half an orange 
peel and hll with chili sauce. Serve on the plate with 
the sandwich. 



OYSTER SALAD SANDWICH 

Chop fine two stalks of celery and one medium 
nzed cucumber; add one oip of cold cooked oysters 
cut in pieces, mix with one-half cup of cream dressing. 
Place on thin slices of lighdy tmttered white bread 
with a crisp lettuce leaf between. 

CAVIARE SANDWICH 

Between thin sUces of buttered rye bread, spread 
caviare; on top of that sprinkle a little finely chopped 
onion. Gamiidi top with a slice of lemon. 

CAVIARE SANDWICH NO. 2 

To a can of caviare add the juice of half a lemon, 
and one teaspoonful of olive oil. Mix well together 
until a paste is formed. Spread mixture on thin slices 
of lightly buttered white bread or toast and cover with 
anodier slice of bread. 



t^- .- ■--. -- ■-- ■ '-^ 

CAVIARE-LOBSTER SANDWICH 

Spread thinly buttered white Ivead with caviare, 
season with lemon juice, and on top of this lay a little 
minced lobster. Cover with anodier slice of buttered 
bread and place on a lettuce leaf. 

ROE SANDWICH 

Mix the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with the 
roe of a salt herring. Place the mixture between thin 
slices of lighdy Lmttered white bread. Garnish with a 
slice of lemon. 

SHAD-ROE SANDWICH 

One set of shad-roe that has been cooked and 
pounded in a mortar, the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs 
chopped very line, two teaspoonfuls of finely chopped 
capers, a dash of paprika, and two tablespoonfuls of 
tabasco sauce. Mix and place between thin slices of 
lightly buttered white bread. 



SHAD.ROE AND CUCUMBER 
SANDWICH 

Marinate one cup each of cucumber and cooked 
^ad-roe, and a dash of mayonnaise and place on a 
crisp lettuce leaf between thin slices of lighdy buttered 
white bread. 

LOBSTER SANDWICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread lay 
a crisp lettuce leaf ; on top of that place shredded meat 
of a boiled lobster that has been mixed with a little 
mayonnaise dressing. Cover with anoAer slice of 
bread and press together. 

LOBSTER SANDWICH NO. 2 

Cut the meat of a cold boiled lobster into dice. 
I^ninkle with a little salt, red pet^>er, and a table- 
spoonful of tanagon vinegar. Add three tableqxKm- 



(uls of melted butter. Place mixture on slices of lightly 
buttered whole wheat or brown bread, cover widi 
another slice of bread, press the two together, remove 
the crusts, and cut mto triangles. Garnish with an 
olive. 

LOBSTER SANDWICH NO. 3 

Pound the meat of a medium sized lobster fine. 
add one tablespoonful of the coral, dried and mashed 
smooth, the juice of half a lemon, a dash of nutmeg, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of paprika, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of soft butter. Mix all to a smooth paste and 
place between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread. 

LOBSTER SANDWICH NO. 4 

Chop the meat of a medium sized lobster and a 
stalk of celery fine, moisten with a little mayonnaise 
dressing, and place between thin slices of lightly but- 
tered white bread. Gami^ with a slice of lemon. 



LOBSTER SALAD SANDWICH 

Mix one cup of lobster meat with a little mayon- 
naJM dressing. Marinate cnsp lettuce leaves and ctr- 
range on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread; 
cover with lobster, and cover lobster with bread; sprin- 
kle lobster coral od top. Prepare just before serving. 

DUTCH LUNCH SANDWICH 

Take two square salted crackers and place on one 
two thin slices of Bermuda onion, next a layer of sar- 
dines and squeeze a generous amount of lemon juice 
over all; then put remaining cracker (buttered) on 
top. Salmon may be substituted. 

LOBSTER AND MUSHROOM 
SANDWICH 

Cook one-half pound of mushrooms in a little 
bu^r until tender, then add one small sliced onion. 



moisten with a little stock and let simmer until dcme. 
Remove from the fire and chop fine; press through a 
sieve and season with salt and pepper and a dash of 
tomato catsup. When cool, add a little lobster meat 
pounded smooth, mix and spread on thin sUces of 
lightly buttered white bread. Garnish with an olive. 

SARDINE SANDWICH 

Remove the skin and bones from two boxes of 
sardines, and pound the meat to a paste. Add a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy paste, a da^ of salt and red 
pepper, and rub in the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, 
with two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Spread mixture 
on toasted bread. To be eaten while toast is hot 

SARDINE SANDWICH NO. 2 

Remove scales and bones from two boxes of sar- 
dines. Put the sardines in a mortar with the yolks of 
five hard-boiled eggs. Pound fine; add one table- 



spoonful of olive oil. &e juice of one-half temon. a 
pinch of mustard, a dash of pepper and salt, two sprigs 
of finely chopped watercress. When smoothly blended 
spread the mixture between thin slices of lightly but' 
tered white or graham bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICH NO. 3 

Remove scales and bones from two boxes of sar- 
dines. Four hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, the juice 
of one lenion, a dash of salt, red and black pepper, a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, a sprig of parsley, 
chopped fine. Stir to a paste and spread on lightly 
buttered white bread with a lettuce leaf between. 

SARDINE SANDWICH NO. 4 

Remove skin and bones from the sardines and 
pound to a paste; season with salt and cayenne pepper 
and a dash of lemon juice. Spread on thin slices of 
li^tly buttered white or rye bread; cover with an- 
odier slice of bread and garnish with a pickle. 



u 



SARDINE SANDWICH NO. 5 

Pound eight boned and skinned satdines with two 
ounces of fresh butter, a little salt and cayenne. Spread 
the mixture oo sUces of brown bread Hghtly buttered, 
and over them lay a sUce of skinned tomato. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and a pinch of sugar. Add a few 
drops of lemon juice. Form into sandwiches and cut 
into finger lengths. 

SARDINE AND CHEESE SANDWICH 

Equal parts of boned and skinned sardines and 
cream cheese madied to a pulp. Mix and place be- 
tween thin slices of white or rye bread. Garnish 
with a pickle. 

SARDINE CLUB SANDWICH 

Three slices of thinly cut white bread, toasted 
and buttered. Place a lettuce leaf that has been dipped 
in mayonnaise dressing on the lower slice, and on top 



of diat put slices of broiled breakfast bacoD, then put 
another slice of toast on top of that, with another let- 
tuce leaf followed by boneless and skinless sardines 
split open, topped by a third slice of toasted bread. 
Garnish with slices of lemon cut very thin and dipped 
in finely chopped parsley. 

SPANISH SANDWICH 

Ciit slices of white bread rather thick and toast; 
trim off crusts and lightly butter. Remove skin and 
bone from the sardines and lay them on the toast. 
Sprinkle cho[q>ed olives over the sardines and the 
juice of a quarter of a lemon. Cover v/ith another 
slice of buttered toast. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

BROILED SARDINE SANDWICH 

Use sardines in oil. remove from can and put on 
a platter to drain off oil. Toast thin slices of bread 
and cut in triangles or squares, and butter while hot 
D^ each sardine in cracker crumbs, put on a broiler 



and broil over a coal fire first on one side, then die 
other. Lay two broiled sardines on a piece of toast, 
cover with another slice, and garnish with a slice of 
lemon. Serve as soon as made. 

AUSTRIAN SANDWICH 

Two cans of boned and skinned sardines, two 
baits of cottage cheese, one small onion chopped fine. 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, two tablespoon- 
futs of chopped mint, two taMespoonfuIs of vinegar, 
salt to taste, a dash of red pepper, the grated rind and 
juice of two lemons; also use the oil from the sardines. 
Mix and beat thoroughly; spread between thin slices of 
lightly buttered rye or brown bread. 

SALMON SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, place a crisp lettuce leaf; on that put canned 
sahnon that has been seasoned with salt and pepper and 
a dash of lemon juice. Garnish with a slice of lemon. 



SALMON SANDWICH NO. 2 

One can of salmoo, two sticks of celery chopped 
fine, juice of hsJf a lemon, a dash of salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of melted butter. Mix and place between 
thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, cut in fancy 
shapes. Garnish with a sprig of parsley. 

SALMON SANDWICH NO. 3 

One can of salmon, one small head of lettuce 
chopped fine. One teaspoonful of melted tutter, a 
dash of salt, and juice of half a lemon. Mix and place 
between thin slices of Inittered white bread. Garnish 
with an olive. 

SALMON SANDWICH NO. 4 

Flake die salmon and moisten with mayonnaise 
dressing. Use as a filling between thin slices of brown 
bread lightly buttered. Garnish with a slice of lemon 
that has been dipped in finely chopped parsley. 



SALMON AND HAM SANDWICH 

One-half can of salmon, two slices of cold boiled 
ham, two sprigs of watercress. Chop these together 
until fine, add a dash of lemon juice. Place between 
diinly cut slices of buttered bread. 



PIMENTO SANDWICH 

Grind two small cans of pimentos with two cakes 
of Neufchatel cheese, and season with a little salt If 
the mixture is too dry add a little oil of pimentos. 
Spread on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. 
Place two together and cut in fancy shapes. 



SHRIMP SANDWICH 

Minced cold shrimp, a celery stick chopped fine; 
. add a little mayoimaise dressing, a dash of salt Mix 
and ^read on ditn slices of rye bread lightly buttered. 
Press slices together and garnish with an olive. 



SHRIMP SALAD SANDWICH 

Marinate one cup of shrimps with French dress- 
ing; add one-half cup each of chopped oUves and 
pimentos; drain, moisten with mayonnaise dressing. 
and place on thin slices of Hghtly buttered white bread, 
with a crisp lettuce leaf between. 

LENTEN SANDWICH 

Whip a cup of cream until stiff, stir in minced 
cold shnmp, a little parsley, a dash of salt and pepper. 
Spread mixture between thin slices of white or graham 
bread. Garnish with an olive. 

CRAB SANDWICH 

Take the contents of a nnall can of crab meat, 
squeeze out liquor; mix with a httle mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Place a crisp lettuce leaf on each slice of lightly 
bidtered v^te bread, and s[Hcad with crab mixture. 
Put slices together and cut in squares. 



c^hi/- .i:\o^ .,...-'. . .■„.■ ■ ./ 

MOCK CRAB SANDWICH 

One-fourth cupful of grated American cheese, 
two tf^lespoonfuls butter creamed, a dash of salt, pap- 
rika, and mustard, a tea^ioonful of chopped olives, 
vinegar and anchovy paste. Mix and spread on thin 
slices of white bread. Put the two slices together. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICH 

Pour off wine, then wash thoroughly in vinegar. 
Allow them to soak in olive oil for a half-hour, remove. 
open lengthwise, and take out bones; place between 
thin slices of unbuttered bread. Garnish with an olive. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICH NO. 2 

A can of boneless anchovies mixed with three 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Add a dash of lemon 
juice, a teaspoonful of melted butter, a pinch of salt. 
Mix and spread on lightly buttered while bread, with 
a lettuce leaf between. Garnish with a pickle. 



FISH SANDWICH 

To cold cooked fish, minced fine, add a little 
chopped pickle. Season with pepper and salt Place 
between two slices of buttered white bread. 



FISH AND ECG SANDWICH 

Mix with an equal amount of cold cooked fish 
the yolks of hfu-d-boiled eggs, mixed to a paste; add a 
little mayonnaise dressing. Spread mixture on lightly 
buttered white bread with a lettuce leaf between. 



SARDELLEN PASTE SANDWICH 

Wash, bone, and skin one-half pound of sardellen 
and mash to a paste. Rub together the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs and one teaspoonful of butter until 
smooth, then add the sardellen paste. Mix and spread 
on small squares of buttered toast Serve with an olive. 



SARDELLEN SANDWICH 

Clean, bone, and mash smooth, one-half pound 
sardetlen, mix with one tablespoonful of creamed but- 
ter, and juice of half a lemon, a dash of white pepper, 
and a half-teaspoonful of prepared mustard. Spread 
on thm slices of round toast, cover with another slice, 
and gftmish with a pickle. 

HALIBUT SANDWICH 

Cold halibut shredded, mixed with a little mayon- 
naise dressing and capers. Spread between lightly 
buttered white bread. Garnish with a radish. 



HALIBUT SANDWICH NO. 2 

Shred boneless cold boiled halibut and rub 
smooth with a wooden spoon; season with salt and 
pepper and one tablespoonful of lemon juice ; add three 
tablespoonfuls of diick cream and toss up. Spread 



this mixture on thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, with a crisp lettuce leaf, that has been dipped 
in mayonnaise dressing, between. Cut triangular. 

ANCHOVY TOAST 

C^ can of boneless anchovies in oil; toast 
squares pf bread widiout crusts to a nice even brown; 
two anchovies are jidaced between two slices of toast 
and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs are chopped fine and 
sprinkled over same, the whites being cut into cubes 
and disposed over the top; dust with w^iite pepper. 
Garnish widi a slice of lemon. 

FRENCH SANDWICH 

To one pint of cold cooked fish, add two hard- 
boiled eggs chopped fine, two lablespoonfuls of capers. 



r 



.:_ix_j£J 



and a little mayonnaise to moisten. Mix and spread 
on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, cover 
with another slice, and cut in strips. Add a sprinkling 
of finely ciiopped cress to the top of each sandwich; 
rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg through a sieve and 
chop the white very fine. Add a sprinkling of the 
yolk to the cress on half the number of sandwiches, 
adding the white to the other half. Then arrange them 
in groups of twos, one of each color on the serving 
plate. Any cold meat may be used instead of the fish, 

HOT CREAMED CODFISH 
SANDWICH 

Between toasted and lightly buttered slices of 
white bread place hot creamed codfish. Put a table- 
spoonful of the codfish on top and sprinkle finely 
chopped hard-boiled egg over the codfish and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley and a pickle. Serve as soon as 
made. 



EGG 



EGG SANDWICH 

Chop finely the whites of hard-boiled eggs; force 
the yolks through a potato ricer; mix yolks and whites, 
season with salt and pepper, and. moisten with a little 
mayonnaise dressing. Place mixture between thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread with a lettuce leaf 
between. Garnish with an olive. 



EGG SANDWICH NO. 2 

Slice cold hard-boiled eggs and lay them be- 
tween very thin, buttered slices of white bread, season- 
ing them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Garnish with 
a pickle. 

FRIED EGG SANDWICH 

Fry eggs well done, add a dash of salt and pep- 
per, and place between thin slices of white bread, with 
a crisp lettuce leaf between. Garnish with a radish. 



RIBBON SANDWICH 

Mash the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs to a paste, 
add three tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing and 
pepper and salt to taste. Spread lightly with butter 
three square thin slices of white bread and two corre- 
sponding slices of wheat For lower slice use the vAnte 
bread and spread with the egg paste, then place the 
wheat bread on top of that and spread with the egg 
paste, followed by a slice of the white bread. Press 
tightly together, then take a sharp knife and cut cross-' 
wise into five sandwiches. Garnish with an olive. 



ECC AND LETTUCE SANDWICH 

Place slices of hard-boiled eggs to cover slices of 
thinly cut buttered white bread, add a dash of salt and 
paprika, on this lay a crisp leaf of lettuce that has been 
dipped in mayonnaise dressing; cover with the other 
buttered slice of bread and cut diagonally in halves. 
Garnish with an olive. 



ECC AND OLIVE SANDWICH 

Chop five hard-boiled eggs very fine. Stone and 
chop fifteen large olives and mix with the egg, moisten 
all with three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, season 
with salt and pepper, and mix to a moist paste. Spread 
on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. Put two 
slices together and garnish .with an olive. 

ECC AND CUCUMBER SANDWICH 

Run a sour cucumber pickle through the meat 
chopper, then run through six hard-boiled eggs. Mix 
with a little mayonnaise dressing. Place mixture be-* 
tween thin slices of lightly buttered white bread with 
a crisp lettuce leaf between. 

ECC AND BROWN BREAD 

SANDWICH 

Chop hard-boiled eggs fine, season with salt and 
pepper, add olive oil until of the consistency to spread. 
Use for a filling for brown bread sandwiches. 



33 



PURITAN SANDWICH 

Rub smoodi the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, add 
a tablespoonful of melted butter, a dash of salt and 
white pepper, one-half teaspoonful of mustard and one- 
fourth of a pound of American cheese grated, then 
sdr in a scant tablespoonful of vinegar. Spread mix- 
ture on- thin slices of lightly buttered white or rye 
bread. Put two slices together and garnish with a 
pickle. 

GOLD SANDWICH 

Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs to a 
paste. Add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, mixing 
with a silver fork. Add a pinch of mustard, cayenne 
pepper and salt, and lastly one tablespoonful of vine- 
gar. When this is thoroughly mixed, add one cup of 
grated American cheese. Spread on thin slices of 
lightly buttered white bread. 



MONTPELIER SANDWICH 

Put ihree hard-boiled eggs and three boned 
anchovies in a mortar and pound fine ; add one ounce 
of butter, and season with salt and cayenne pepper. 
Place between thin slices of white bread cut in fancy 
shiqKS. Garnish widi a sprig of parsley. 

JAPANESE EGC SANDWICH 

Chop four hard-boiled eggs and three boned sar- 
dines fine, add a teaspoonful of melted butter and rub 
to a paste; season with pepper and salt and a little 
mayonnaise dressing; cut in slender strips. Garnish 
widi parsley and an oUve. 

BROWN EGC SANDWICH 

Mash the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs and mois- 
ten with a teaspoonful of melted butter and a drop of 
vinegar, work to a paste, adding salt, pepper and a 
little French mustard, and a drop of tabasco. Spread 



the mixture between slices of lightly buttered Boston 
brown bread cut wafer thin. Garnish with an olive. 

EASTER SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, place a crisp lettuce leaf that has been clipped 
in mayonnaise dressing. On this place round slices 
of cold hard-boiled egg. Dust with pepfwr and salt. Cut 
sandwiches in squares and tie with lavender baby ribboiu 

CHEVY CHASE SANDWICH 

Put six hard-boiled eggs through a potato ricer. 
To these add six sweet pickles, chopped hne. a dash of 
salt and white pepper, and two teaspoonfuls of melted 
butter; mix and place between thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread. 

OUTINC SANDWICH 

Chop hard-boiled eggs fine, season with salt and 
pepper ; moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Spread on 
buttered whole wheat bread. Garnish with a pickle. 



TRAVELLER'S SAIslDWICH 

Chop hard-boiled eggs fine, add a few minced 
olives, season with lemon juice; mix with butter, 
creamed. Spread on thin slices of white bread. 



CURRIED ECC AND OYSTER 

SANDWICHES 

Chop four boiled eggs very fine, season with pep- 
per and salt and spread on thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread; on top of eggs place three pickled oys- 
ters; over this spread a tablespoonful of curry sauce 
and cover with another slice of bread. The sauce is 
made thus; put a tablespoonful of butter into a sauce 
pan, add a cup of milk, thicken with a little flour dis- 
solved in a little cold milk, let come to a boil, then 
add a dash of onion juice, salt and pepper, and a tea- 
spoonful of curry. Let simmer a minute, then set it 
aside to cool. When sandwiches are ready to serve, 
spread this sauce over the egg and oysters, then cover 
with the other slice of bread. Garnish with parsley. 



37 



SALADS 



TOMATO SANDWICH 

Pare, chill, and cut ripe tomatoes thin, season 
with salt and pepper and a little lemon juice. Place 
between thin slices of lightly buttered white bread widi 
a crisp lettuce leaf between. 

TOMATO SANDWICH NO. 2 

On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
place a crisp lettuce leaf that has been dipped in may- 
onnaise dressing; on this, place thin slices of tomato, 
add a dash of salt, and spread lightly with mayonnaise 
dressing; cover with another lightly buttered sUce of 
bread. 

TOMATO AND ONION SANDWICH 

Mix in a bowl some tomato catsup, season with 
pepper and salt and a pindi of sugar, add a little 
Enely chopped onion, mix and place between thin slices 
of buttered white, bread, with a crisp lettuce leaf be- 
tween. 



r. 



TOMATO AND HORSE-RADISH 
SANDWICH 
Slice a tomato thin and sprinkle with salt. Mix 
one-half cup of horse-radish with two tablespoonfuls 
of mayonnaise dressing. Spread thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread with the horse-radish mixture, and 
put the sliced tomato between. 

TOMATO AND NUT SANDWICH 

Chop three medium sized tomatoes, add one small 
green pepper chopped fine, and a half-cup of chopped 
walnuts; add a dash of mayonnaise dressing find place 
on a lettuce leaf between ihin slices of while bread cut 
in squares. 

SPECIALTY SANDWICH 

On thin slices of toasted bread that have been 
lightly buttered, place a thick slice of tomato, over 
top of tomato spread salad dressing, then just a touch 
of caviare, cover with another slice of toast, and garnish 
with a slice of lemon. 



EPICUREAN SANDWICH 

Two medium sized tomatoes, three green sweet 
peppers, and one small onion, chop Ene, mix together, 
salt, cmd drain in sieve for five minutes. Mix with a 
little salad dressing and place on a lettuce leaf, be- 
tween thin slices of white or whole wheat bread lightly 
buttered. 

BEET SANDWICH 

Chop cold boiled beets fine, season with salt and 
pepper and a dash of vinegar. On thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread, spread cream cheese. On top 
of this sprintle the chopped beets. Cover with another 
slice of bread. 

BEET AND CHEESE SANDWICH 

Slice bread thin. Spread one piece with beets 
that have been chopped very fine and moistened with 
mayonnaise dressing. Tlie other spread with cream 
cheese. Press slices firmly together. 



iVATERCRESS SANDWICH 

Dip fresh leaves of watercress in mayonnaise 
dressing. Place between thin slices of white bread 
lightly buttered. 

IVATERCRESS AND EGG SAND- 
WICH 

Chop cress and moisten with French dressing. 
Press the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs through a 
colander and add to the mixture. Place between thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread. 

WATERCRESS AND ECC SAND- 
WICH NO. 2 

Cut watercress into small pieces, removing the 
stalks, and mix with finely chopped hard-boiled eggs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Place between thin, 
buttered slices of bread, sprinkling the. cr^ss and egg . 
very lightly with lemoo juice. Press together, and cut 
in squares, removing the crusts. 



MUSHROOM SANDWICH 

Boiled mushrooms chopped fine, cold boiled 
tongue chopped fine, season with pepper and salt, add 
a little mayonnaise dressing, mix, and spread between 
thin slices of buttered white bread. Garnish with an 
olive. 

WESTERN SANDWICH 

Chop five olives, a dozen capers, and one gherkin 
fine and mix with two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise 
dressing. Spread the lower slices of buttered white 
bread with fresh cream cheese, season with salt and 
pepper, then put another slice on top of that and spread 
with the olive mixture. On top place a third slice, 
press together, cut round, and garnish with a sprig of 
parsley. 

PICCALILLI SANDWICH 

Between thinly cut slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, place a layer of sweet piccalilli ; cut in diamond 
shape. Garnish with a sprig of parsley. 



45 



GREEN PEPPER AND ECG 
SANDWICH 

Between thinly cut slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, place seedless green peppers that have been 
chopped fine cind mixed wi^i a little mayonnaise dress- 
ing. On top of that place slices of hard-boiled egg. 
Garnish with a sprig of parsley and a small pickle. 

NASTURTIUM SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
with mayonnaise dressing; place nasturtium blossoms 
overlapping one another half way; roll up the sandwich 
and fasten vnth a toothpick. 

RIPE OLIVE SANDWICH 

Chop ripe olives fine, mix with a little mayon- 
naise, and place between thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. 



OLIVE SQUARES 

Cut thin squares of brown bread and lightly but- 
ter, adding a dash of pepper and salt Stone eight 
olives, chop them with two stalks of celery, one liny 
cucumber pickle, a teaspoonful of catsup, a dash of 
salt and pepper, and a very little mustard. Mbc well 
and spread on the brown bread, covering with another 
square. 

OLIVE AND PEPPER SANDWICH 

Chop olives fine, add a little finely chopped green 
and red (sweet) peppers, a dash of mayonnaise dress- 
ing; mix and place between thin slices of lightly but- 
tered white bread. 

OLIVE AND CHICKEN LIVER 
SANDWICH 

Chop olives and cold boiled chicken livers fine; 
mbc with mayonnaise and spread on thin slices of whole 
wheat bread. Put the slices together. 



OLIVE AND CHEESE SANDWICH 

Hiin slices of white bread lightly buttered, cut in 
hexagon shape. Between each two slices place a layer 
of Neufchatel cheese mixed to a paste with a little 
thick cream and mayonnaise dressing, and cover 
thickly with chopped olives. 

OLIVE AND CAPER SANDWICH 

Stone the olives and chop fine, adding one-third 
quantity of capers, mix with a little mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and spread between thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. 

OLIVE AND CAPER SANDWICH 
NO. 2 

Chop equal amount of capers and olives fine, sea- 
son with celery salt and paprika, add a little olive oil 
or melted butter, mix until smooth. Spread on slices 
of lighdy buttered white bread. 



OLIVE AND NUT SANDWICH 

Chop olives and English walnuts fine, add a dash 
of mayonnaise dressing, and spread on lightly buttered 
brown bread. 



CUCUMBER SANDWICH 

Peel cucumbers and cut into the thinnest possible 
slices and sprinkle with salt and pepper and a few 
drops of lemon juice. Place between thin slices of 
lightly buttered bread. 



CUCUMBER SANDWICH NO. 2 

Sprinkle thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
with cayenne. Place thinly sliced cucumbers that have 
been mixed with a little French dressing between the 
slices. * 



49 



CUCUMBER SANDWICH NO. 3 

Soak diin slices of cucumber for one hour in 
good white vinegar, season with salt and pepper. Place 
between thin slices of buttered brown bread. Cut in 
strips. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICH NO. 4 

Chop cucumbers fine, add a pinch of salt and 
pepper and a dash of French dressing. Mix and 
place between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, with a cnsp lettuce leaf between. 

CUCUMBER AND CHIVES SAND- 
WICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, 
place thm slices of cucumber, over which sprinkle 
chopped chives; cover with another slice of bread and 
cut in squares. 



CUCUMBER AND CHEESE SAND- 
WICH 

Slice cucumbers thin, let stand in salt water ten 
minutes, drain, and place slices on thinly buttered white 
bread. Sprinkle with grated American cheese, put 
slices together, and garnish with a radish. 

CUCUMBER AND RED PEPPER 
SANDWICH 

Chop three medium sized cucumbers and one red 
pepper, add a little mayonnaise dressing, and place be- 
tween thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. 

CUCUMBER AND ONION SAND- 
WICH 

Chop fine one large cucumber and a small white 
onion. Add a dcish of pepper and salt and moisten 
widi a little mayonnaise dressing. Place between thin 
slices of lightly buttered Boston brown bread. 



DILL SANDWICH 

Lightly butter slices of wliite bread; cover half 
of them with thin slices of the white meat of roasted 
chicken; put over this a thin layer of dill pickles; cover 
with another slice of buttered bread, trim off the crusts, 
cut in triangles, and serve on a lettuce leaf. 



SPINACH SANDWICH 

Chop cold boiled spinach and the yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs fine, add a dash of salt and vinegar. 
Spread between thin slices of buttered white bread 
Garnish with a pickle. 



ONION SANDWICH 

Slice a mild sweet onion and lay in salted ice 
water for a half-hour. Mix with a good mayonnaise 
dressing, and place slices of onion between well but- 
tered slices of Boston brown bread cut thin. 



MUSTARD SANDWICH 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter with one ta* 
blespoonful of prepared mustard. Spread a thin layer 
between thinly cut slices of rye bread. Garnish with 
a pickle. 

MOSAIC SANDWICH 

White, brown, and graham bread are used for this 
sandwich. Cut the slices thin and spread with green 
butter. The butter is made by putting cold boiled 
spinach through a sieve, season with finely chopped 
parsley and capers, and mix smooth with creamed but- 
ter. Put slices together. 

. HORSE-RADISH SANDWICH 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, add three 
tablespoonfuls of prepared horse-radish, spread be- 
tween exceedingly thin slices of white bread. Garnish 
with parsley; serve as soon as made. 



53 



3 



CELERY SANDWICH 



Chop fine a few stalks of celery, mix with a little 
mayonnaise dressing, spread on diin slices of lightly 
buttered bread, cover with another slice. 



CELERY SANDWICH NO. 2 

Butter bread od the loaf, first having creuned 
the butter. Cut away the crusts and starting at one 
comer of die dice, roll it over two crisp short celery 
sticks. Tie with baby ribbon. 



CELERY AND ENGLISH WALNUT 
SANDWICH 

Mix (Mie cup of chopped celery, one-fourth cup 
of chopped English walnuts, and one-four^ cup 
chopped olives. Moisten with mayonnaise and place 
between thin slices of lightly buttered brown bread. 



CELERY AND ENGLISH WALNUT 
SANDWICH NO. 2 

Chop celery and English walnuts fine, add a 
dash of salt and allspice, moisten with a litde masron- 
naise dressing. Spread between thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread. 



LETTUCE SANDWICH 

Between thin, oblong slices of lightly buttered 
white bread, place a crisp lettuce leaf that has been 
dipped in mayonnaise dressing, and stmnkled with 
Parmesan cheese. 

LETTUCE SANDWICH NO. 2 

Cut crisp lettuce leaves into ribbons with scissors, 
add a dash of mayonnaise dressing, and season with 
salt. Place between thm slices of lighdy buttered 
white or brown bread. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD SAND- 
WICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered brown 
bread place a lettuce leaf that has been dipped in 
mayonnaise dressing. 

BAR HARBOR SANDWICH 

Cut the crisp lettuce leaves into ribbons with the 
scissors, salt and pepper and moisten with a little may- 
onnaise dressing. Place on thin slices of lightly but- 
tered white bread ; on each lay a thin slice of tomato 
and cover with another slice of buttered bread. Press 
together and serve as soon as made. 

RADISH SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered while 
bread place sprigs of watercress and thin slices of a 
radish that has been dipped in French dressing. Can 
be served with the iish course. 



STRING BEAN SANDWICH 

Cook string beans until tender; when cold, cut in 
small pieces, add a chopped onion, and a few chopped 
Elnglish walnut meats. Mix with a little French dress- 
ing and spread between lightly buttered slices of white 
bread, with a crisp lettuce leaf between. 

APPLE AND CELERY SANDWICH 

Chop three apples and three stalks of celery fine. 
Mix with a little mayonnaise dressing and place on thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread. Put the two 
slices together. 

APPLE AND CRAPE SANDWICH 

Remove the seeds from thin skinned white grapes ; 
add one apple euid one stalk of celery; chop fine. 
Moisten with French dressing, toss up, and spread on 
thinly cut slices of Buttered white bread. Place the 
two slices together. 



r 



APPLE SALAD SANDWICH 

Chop fine two medium sized red apples and two 
stalks of celery; mix with a little boiled dressing and 
place between thin slices of buttered white bread. 



WALDORF SANDWICH 

Chop two apples, two stalks of celery, and one 
sweet pepper fine, add a little mayoimaise dressing, mix, 
and place between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread. Garnish with a sprig of watercress. 

NOVELTY SANDWICH 

Chop one small onion, eight olives, one green 
pepper (seeds removed), and one chow chow pickle 
fine. Add one cupful of grated Parmesan cheese ; ' 
moisten with enough mustard dressing from the chow 
chow to form a paste. Spread on thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread. Cover with another slice and 
' cut in triangles. 



ST: PATRICK SANDWICH 

Chop a handful of mint, a handful of parsley, 
and a tiny onion very fine, add a dash of paprika, mix 
with a little mayonnaise dressing. Place between thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread. Garnish with a 
sprig of parsley. 

TARTAR SANDWICH 

Take two tablespoonfuls each of chopped CHiion, 
parsley, capers, and sour cucumber pickles. Mix with 
two tablespponfuls of mayonnaise dressing. Place 
mixture between thin shces of graham or white bread 
lightly buttered. 

GRAPE FRUIT SANDWICH 

Remove the pulp from grape fruit, mjiking one 
cup; add (»ie-fourth cup of finely chopped walnuts, 
moisten with a httle mayonnaise dressing, and place be- 
tween thin slices of lightly buttered white bread cut in 
strips. 



CHERRY SALAD SANDWICH 

Remove stones from two cups of dierries, add 
one-half cup of English walnuts and two stalks of cel- 
ery that have been chopped fine; add enough mayon- 
naise to moisten; place between thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread. Garnish with a cherry. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD SANDWICH 

Shred one medium sized pineapple, add one cup- 
ful of skinned and seeded white grapes, one-half cup 
of finely chopped English walnuts ; moisten with cream 
mayoimaise. Place between thin slices of lightly but- 
tered white bread with a crisp lettuce leaf between. 
Garnish with a red cherry. 

MOCK OYSTER SANDWICH 

Boil salsify until tender, work smooth with a little 
sweet cream, season with salt, cayenne, and a dash of 
anchovy sauce; place between thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread. 



MEAT 



ROAST BEEF SANDWICH 

Two cups of cold boiled beef chopped fine; add 
a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, a dash of pepper 
and celery salt, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Mix well and spread 
on lightly buttered white bread. Put the two slices 
together and garnish with an olive. 

ROAST BEEF SANDWICH NO. 2 

Between thin slices of buttered bread place thin 
slices of cold roast beef; spread this thinly with horse-* 
radish. 

HOT ROAST BEEF SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread place a thin slice of hot roast beef. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of brown gravy over top. Garnish 
with a pickle. 



ROAST BEEF AND TOMATO SAND- 
WICH 

Lightly butter liiin slices of Boston brown bread, 
cover with a thin layer of cold roast beef, lightly 
spread with mayonnaise dressing; put on top of this a 
slice of tomato, dust with pepper and salt, cover with 
another slice of bread. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

ROAST BEEF AND JAM SAND- 
WICH 

Between thin slices of tightly buttered white 
bread, place thin slices of cold roast beef; on top of 
this spread plum jam. 

ROAST BEEF SALAD SANDWICH 

Chop line one cup of cold roast beef, one-half 
head of lettuce, one boiled beet, one hard-boiled egg, 
one small onion, and one pickled cucumber. Mix with 
French dressing and place between thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread. 



RARE BEEF SANDWICH 

To two parts of chopped lean rare beef, add one 
part of finely minced celery. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a little made mustard. Place on a lettuce leaf be- 
tween thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. 

CORNED BEEF SANDWICH 

Chop cold com beef very fine, season with 
mustard and a dash of catsup. Place mixture on a 
lettuce leaf, between lightly buttered white bread. 

CHIPPED BEEF SANDWICH 

Chop chipped beef very fine and mix with a little 
mayonnaise; spread on thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. 

PICNIC SANDWICH 

A pound of raw beef run through the meat chop- 
per; a teacupful of bread crumbs, pepper and salt to 
taste; mix with a well-beaten egg, and form into a roll. 



Take a flank of mutton, remove the bones and lay the 
' above mixture on the mutton and do it up into a roll; 
bind it with a tape. Sew up the ends so mixture will not 
bulge out; dust with pepper and salt, then roast it; 
when it is cold, take off the tape, take out the sewing, 
and slice thin. Place between thin slices of lightly but- 
tered white bread. Garnish with an olive. 



CANNIBAL SANDWICH 

Chop raw beef and onions very fine, season with 
salt and pepper, and spread on lightly buttered brown 
bread. 



MEAT AND MUSHROOM SAND- 
WICH 

Mince boiled mushrooms and cold beef or tongue 
together, and spread between thin slices of lightly but- 
tered white bread. Lightly spread the filling with 
French mustard. Garnish with a pickle. 



FRIED COLD MEAT SANDWICH 

Place between thin slices of white bread, cold 
roast beef or lamb, chopped fine; season with pepper 
and salt. Mix with a little of the left-over gravy ; dip 
in egg and milk and fry brown in butter. Serve hot. 

BROILED STEAK SANDWICH 

Between slices of lightly buttered white bread, 
place a thin piece of hot broiled steak, season with salt 
and pepper. Garnish top with a thin slice of Bermuda 
onion. 

HAM SANDWICH 

Grind boiled ham fine; mix with a little chopped 
celery and mayonnaise. Place between slices of thinly 
cut buttered bread. 

HAM SANDWICH NO. 2 

Chop ham fine, mix with a little mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and place between thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. Garnish with parsley and a pickle. 



67 



HAM SANDWICH NO. 3 

Slice cold boiled ham thin; spread with French 
mustard, place between thin slices of rye bread. Gar- 
nish with a pickle. 



HAM SANDWICH NO. 4 

One pound of cold boiled ham run through fine 
knife or meat chopper, one-half cup strained lemon 
juice, mix with a little mayonnaise dressing, spread on 
thin slices of lightly buttered .white bread, with a crisp 
lettuce leaf between. 



HOT HAM SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of white bread with chopped 
cold boiled ham, over same spread a little mustard, 
and cover with another slice. Beat an egg cmd add 
one-half cup of milk, and in this mixture dip the sand- 
wiches. Garnish with parsley and a pickle. 



HOT HAM SANDWICH NO. 2 

Spread finely minced boiled ham on thin slices of 
lightly buttered bread. Put the sandwiches together 
and cut into triangles. Beat two eggs light, add a cup 
of milk and a pinch of salt. Dip the sandwiches in 
the egg and milk and fry brown on a hot buttered 
griddle. Garnish with a slice of broiled tomato and 
serve at once. 

HAM FINGERS 

Run lean ham through the meat chopper, season 
%sith salt and pepper, and moisten with a little salad 
dressing. Place die ham between slices of thinly cut 
and lightly buttered bread. Cut in shape of lady 
fingers and garnish with a sprig of watercress. 

HAM AND EGG SANDWICH 

Chop cold boiled ham and hard-boiled eggs fine, 
season with pepper and salt, and a dash of mayon- 
naise dressing. Place the mixture between thin slices 



of lightly buttered brown bread. Garnish with a small 
pickle. 

HAM AND EGC CLUB SANDWICH 

Chop cold boiled ham very fine and rub aoooth in 
a mortar; pass the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs 
dirough a sieve and add a little mayonnaise dressing. 
Cut white bread very thin and lightly butter; on one 
slice spread the ham, then cover with another slice, and 
on that spread the egg mixture with a crisp lettuce leaf 
between, topped by a third slice of lightly buttered 
bread. Garnish with a pickle. 

HAM AND NUT SANDWICH 

Mince finely some cold boiled ham and add to it 
about half the quantity of finely chopped peanuts. For 
every cupful of ham add a tablespoonful of chopped 
pickles and a little chopped celery. Mix to a paste 
with salad dressing and spread on thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread and serve on a lettuce leaf. 



POTTED HAM SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread spread potted ham; remove crusts and shape 
them in triangular form. Garnish top with a radish. 



POTTED HAM SANDWICH N O. 2 

Toast saltine biscuit, lightly butter, and spread 
with potted ham. Put two together, serve as soon as 
made. Garnish with a pickle. 

PARTY SANDWICH ROLLS 

Fresh bread is used for these sandwiches. Cut 
the slices as thin as possible and remove the crusts. Lay 
crisp lettuce leaves that have been dipped in mayonnaise 
dressing on the slices; on top of that place thin shav- 
ings of cold boiled ham; roll the slices very closely and 
fasten with a. toothpick or ribbon. Pile on a serving 
dish and garnish with pickles and radishes. 



L_.. .-- .. .... - . __,' - . .:.-.;■■-,- ..-'' 

WESTPHALIAN HAM SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of tightly buttered rye bread, 
place thin slices of Westphalian ham; add a dash of 
mustard, and gambh top with a pickle. 

AUTOMOBILE SANDWICH 

Run through the meat chopper two pounds of 
cold boiled ham, half a pound of walnut meats, and 
four dill pickles. Mix with a little French mustctrd, 
and place between slices of lightly buttered bread. 

STAC SANDWICH 

Run cold boiled ham and dill pickle through the 
meat chopper, add a little French mustard, and spread 
on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. Cover 
with another slice. 



BOSTON CLUB SANDWICH 

Cut larown bread into rounds with a cake cutter 
and lightly butter. Chop one-half pound of cold boiled 
mutton fine ; add a dash of salt and pepper, two table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil, or melted butter. On the lower 
round of buttered bread place a small crisp lettuce 
heart that has been dipped in mayonnabe dressing. On 
top of that place a slice of tomato, then another slice of 
buttered bread, then the mutton mixture. Place on 
top another round of buttered bread and press the two 
together. 

VEAL SANDWICH 

Grind through meat chopper the desired amount. 
To one cup of chopped meat add one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of mustard, one-half of a 
small onion chopped fine. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix to a paste with mayonnaise dressing, and place 
between thm slices of lightly buttered white bread. 
Garnish with a pickle. 



CALF'S LIVER SANDWICH 

Chop cooked calfs liver fine, add crisp fried 
bacon chopped fine. Season with salt and pepper, add 
a dash of catsup; mix and place on lettuce leaves be- 
tween thin slices of buttered white bread. 

CALF'S LIVER AND BACON SAND- 
WICH 

CalFs liver well cooked and chopped fine, slices 
of bacon fried crisp and chopped fine ; season with salt 
and pepper and a dash of catsup. Mix and place on 
thin slices of lightly buttered graham or white bread, 
with a crisp lettuce leaf between. 

TEXAS SANDWICH 

Chop one-half pound of broiled calf's liver fine. 
Season with salt and cayenne pepper, add on teaspoon- 
fui of melted butter and a few drops of onion juice; 
rub together to a smooth paste. Spread on thin slices 
of unbuttered white bread. Cover with another slice. 



TONGUE SANDWICH 

Between diin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, lay a crisp lettuce leaf that has been dipped in 
mayonnaise dressing; on that lay a thin slice of tongue; 
on top of that a slice of ripe tomato spread with may- 
onnaise. 

TONGUE SANDWICH NO. 2 

Mince boiled tongue, add a teaspoonful of melted 
butter, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, a dash of 
celery salt, and when mixed place between thinly but- 
tered white or brown bread. Serve with a sweet pickle. 

TONGUE AND EGG SANDWICH 

Chop cold boiled tongue line; season with salt 
and pepper and a tablespoonful of melted butter ; mix 
and spread on rounds of toasted bread. Place leaves 
of watercress around edge on top of the toast and in 
the centre pile hard-boiled egg that has been chopped 
fine and mixed with a little mayonnaise dressing. 



DEVILED TONGUE SANDWICH 

Run a quarter of a pound of cold boiled tongue 
through the meat chopper; add to it three hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine, a dash of red pepper and paprika, a 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter. Mix and place between 
thin slices of lightly buttered bread with sprigs of 
watercress between. 



TONGUE AND TOMATO SAND- 
WICH 

Lightly butter three tPiin slices of white bread. 
On lower slice place a lettuce leaf that has been dipped 
in mayonnaise dressing; on leaf place a sUce of cold 
boiled tongue, then a slice of bread; on this lay a slice 
of tomato that has been dipped in mayonnaise dressing, 
topped by a third slice of bread. Garnish with an 
olive. 



EXCURSION SANDWICH 

Chop cold boiled tongue fine. To each cupful, 
add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a dash of red 
pepper, and one-half teaspoonful of onion juice. Mix 
and spread on very thin slices of white bread, cover 
with another slice, and serve with a pickle. 

LAMB SANDWICH 

To three cups of cold cooked lamb, chopped fine, 
add three tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese, one tea- 
spoonful of mustard, a dash of salt and pepper, and a 
little mayonnaise dressing; mix until smooth. Place 
this on lettuce leaf between slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. 

LAMB SANDWICH NO. 2 

Chop cold cooked lamb and a green pepper fine. 
Season with salt and add a dash of mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Spread on thin slices of graham bread lightly 
buttered. Put the two slices together. 



s 
M 



77 



MUTTON SANDWICH 

Chop cold boiled mutton fine, add a dash of ta- 
basco sauce, a teaspoonful of otive oil or melted butter, 
a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a pinch of salt. Spread 
on lightly buttered white bread. Serve with a pickle. 



MUTTON SANDWICH NO. 2 

Chop cold cooked mutton very hne; to each pint 
add one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of 
capers, on teaspoonful of chopped mint, a dash of pep- 
per, and one tablespoonful of lemon juice. Spread this 
thickly over whole wheal bread. Cover with another 
shce and serve on lettuce leaves. 



MUTTON AND PEA SANDWICH 

Butter slices of white bread lightly and lay on 
them thin slices of cold boiled mutton. Mix together 



half a pint of cooked peas that have been seasoned 
with sah, pepper, a Uttle butter, and a teaspoonfut of 
capers. Place a layer of peas over the mutton, then a 
crisp lettuce leaf, then cover with another slice of but- 
tered bread, and cut into triangles. 



SUMMER SANDWICH 

Cut white bread into rounds with a cake cutter 
and Ughtly butter. Chop one-half pound of cold 
boiled mutton fine; add two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, and a dash of salt and i)epper. Peel four to- 
matoes, cut these into rather thick slices and remove 
the seeds from the centre. Place a lettuce leaf that 
has been lightly dipped In mayonnaise dressing on a 
slice of toast, and put a slice of tomato on top of that. 
Fill the space from which you have taken the seeds 
with the mutton mixture. Put on top another slice of 
toasted and lightly buttered bread, and press the two 
slices iirmly together. 



POTTED MEAT SANDWICH 

Chop one pound of tender cooked veal fine and 
add one-fourth cup of fal pork cooked and chopped 
line. Season with salt and pepper, a Httle anchovy 
essence, and a little mace. Moisten with a little butter 
and work until smooth. Press the mixture solidly into 
small can or jar, pour melted butter to the depth of one- 
half inch over same, and set in a cool place. When 
ready for use, slice and place between thin slices of 
white bread. Garnish with a pickle. 

FARMER SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of white bread, place thin 
slices of cold roast pork; on top of this spread apple 
sayce. 

PORK SANDWICH 

Chop cold boiled ix>rk and a celery stalk fine; 
season with salt, add a dash of Worcestershire, slightly 
diluted with water; mix and place between thm slices 
of buttered white bread. 



MINCE-MEAT SANDWICH 
Moisten thick round crackers with hot milk; 
spread with a thick layer of hot mince meat, made 
rather moist with the addition of a little fruit juice or 
syrup. Place another cracker on top, then whipped 
cream on top of that To be eaten with a fork. 

SOUTHERN (BACON) SANDWICH 

On thin slices of buttered whole wheat bread, 
place a lettuce leaf; add thin slices of crisp fried bacon; 
spread with a little mustard, and put slices together. 
Garnish with a radish. 

TIP-TOP SANDWICH 

Chop fine six slices of uncooked bacon, add two 
green peppers (seeds removed) chopped fine, three 
onions the size of an egg chopped fine, season with 
pepper and salt Fry the above mixture until the 
bacon is done, then scramble in two eggs. Place be- 
tween thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. Gar- 
nish with a radish. 



CHICKEN SANDWICH 

Two cups of finely minced coM cooked chicken, 
a heaping lablespoonful of Pannesan cheese, a table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup, a dash of French mustard, 
salt and pepper, add a little thick cream, work all to a 
smooth paste. Place between thin slices of buttered 
white bread. Garnish with a stick of celery. 

CHICKEN SANDWICH NO. 2 

To the white meat of a cold boiled chicken 
chopped fine, add a crisp celery stalk chopped fine, and 
mix with a litde mayonnaise dressing. Place between 
thinly cut slices of buttered white bread, and garnish 
with an olive. 

CHICKEN SANDWICH NO. 3 

Chop cold cooked chicken fine ; season with pep- 
per and salt, add a dash of mayonnaise dressing, spread 
on thinly cut slices of buttered white bread, with a 
lettuce leaf between, and garnish with an olive. 



CHICKEN SANDWICH NO. 4 

One cup of cold boiled chicken chopped fine; 
season with salt and paprika, moisten with a little 
cream, paste between thin slices of lightly buttered 
whole wheat bread. 

HOT CHICKEN SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered toast, place 
slices of wann chicken breast; over same pour hot 
gravy, made of slightly thickened chicken stock, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, and a little chopped pars- 
ley. Cut triangular and garnish with a pickle, and a 
radish. 

CHICKEN LIVER SANDWICH 

Boil chicken liver until tender and rub through 
a sieve; mix with an equal amount of olives chopped 
fine, and mayonnaise dressing; place between thin 
slices of tightly buttered white bread. 



PRESSED CHICKEN SANDWICH 

Boil fowl uotil tender; remove bones and skin; 
chop fine; season with salt, pepper, and sage to taste. 
Mix teaspoonful of mustard with a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, heal and pour over chicken, with some of the 
broth, and press in earthen di^. When cold and 
ready for use, slice and place between thin, lightly but- 
tered bread with a crisp lettuce leaf between. 

JELLIED CHICKEN SANDWICH 

Chop the white meat of cold boiled chicken &ne, 
rub to a paste. Put a scant tablespoonful of gelatine 
in a half-cup of cold water, place it over the fire until 
it has dissolved; then add the chicken paste, a dash of 
salt and pepper, and a half-teaspoonful of grated horse- 
radish. Stir this mixture until it begins to thicken, then 
stir in one cup of cream that has been whipped to a 
stiff froth, place it in the ice box until very cold; when 
ready for use, cut diin and place between lightly but- 
tered slices of crustless white bread. Garnish with 
parsley and an olive. 



CREAM OF CHICKEN SANDWICH 

Take one cupful of chopped chicken and pound 
it fine ; dissolve a tablespoonful of gelatine in a half-cup 
of cold water; then add the chicken meat, a dash of 
salt, a teaspoonful of grated horse-radish; stir until it 
begins to thicken, then add a little at a time, one-half 
pint of cream that has been whipped to a stiff froth; 
set in the ice box until very cold. On thin slices of 
lightly buttered white bread, spread the mixture ; cut in 
fancy shapes and garnish each with a radish. 



CHICKEN AND EGG SANDWICH 

One cupful of cold chicken chopped fine; the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine; one tea- 
spoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, one teaspoonful of rich stock, and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Mix to a paste and spread on thin slices 
of lightly buttered white bread. Garnish with an olive. 



83 



CHICKEN SURPRISE SANDWIC H 

Chop cold boiled chicken and few capers fine; . 
mix with a little mayonnaise dressing and spread be- 
tween thin slices of toasted white bread. Garnish with 
an olive. 

CHICKEN AND HAM SANDWICH 

One cupful of chopped ham, one cupful of cold 
boiled chicken meat; season with salt and pepper and 
moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Spread this mix- 
ture on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, cover 
with another slice, and cut in halves. Garnish with a 
pickle. 

CHICKEN AND HAM (CLUB) SAND- 
WICH 

Toast and lightly butter three thin slices of white 
bread; place a lettuce leaf ^at has been dipped in 
mayonnaise dressing on the lower slice. On this, place 



slices of cold roast fowl, then put another sHce of toast 
on top of that, with another leaf of lettuce, follow by 
thin slices of broiled ham, topped by a third slice of 
toasted bread. Garnish top with dill pickle, cut in thin 
slices lengthwise. 

CHICKEN AND ENGLISH WALNUT 
SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of buttered white bread with 
English walnut or almond meats chopped fine. Spread 
the corresponding pieces with cold boiled chicken 
diopped line; add a little mayonnaise dressing and 
press pieces together. Garnish with an olive. 

CHICKEN AND ALMOND SAND- 
WICH 

One cup of cold boiled chicken chopped fine; one 
cup of almonds chopped fine; moisten with a little 
cream, season with salt and paprika, place between 
tbiD slices of entire wheat bread. Garnish with pars- 
ley, and an olive. 



CHICKEN AND CREEN PEPPER 
SANDWICH 

Run enough chicken through the meat chopper 
to make two cupfuls; cut out the stem ends and remove 
the seeds from three large sweet peppers; nm them 
through the meat chopper; mix the chicken and pepper 
together; season with half a teaspoonful of salt, and 
two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream. Place between 
diin slices of lightly buttered white bread. Cut m tri- 
angles. Serve on lettuce leaf. 

ASPIC JELLY SANDWICH 

Soak one box (two ounces) of gelatine in one 
cup of chicken liquor until softened; add three cupfuls 
of chicken stock seasoned with a little parsley, celery, 
three cloves, a blade of mace, and dash of salt and 
peeper. Strain into a dish and add a little shredded 
breast of chicken; set in a cold place to harden; when 
cold, slice in fancy shapes and place on slightly but- 
tered whole wheat bread Gami^ with a stick of 
celery. 



RECEPTION SANDWICH 

Equal quantities of breast of cold boiled chicken 
and tongue, put through food chopper; season with 
celery salt, cayenne, anchovy paste, and mayonnaise. 
Place mixture between slices of lightly buttered white 
bread with crisp lettuce leaf that has Been dipped in 
tarragon vinegar. 

QUEEN SANDWICH 

Mince finely two parts of cooked chicken or 
game to one part of cooked tongue, and one part of 
minced cooked mushrooms. Season with salt and pep- 
per and a little lemon juice ; mix and place between thin 
slices of buttered white bread. Garnish with small 
pickle. 

FRENCH ROLL SANDWICH 

French rolls are used for this sandwich. Make a 
small round opening in top of each and take out some 
of the crumbs; save the small crusts from the top of 



the opening; chop fine five olives, a tablespoonful of 
capers, one green sweet pepper (seeds removed), one 
gherkin, the white meat of one chicken, and two ounces 
of tongue chopped fine. Moisten with mayonnaise 
dressing. Fill this mixture into the roll, put the small 
crust on top, and garnish with a pickle. 

CREOLE SANDWICH 

One cupful of cold boiled chicken chopped fine, 
two tablespoonfuls of green pepper that has been par- 
boiled and chopped line. Add a dash of salt, and a 
leaspoonful of chopped parsley; moisten with a little 
mayonnaise dressing and place between thin slices of 
lightly buttered white bread. Garnish with an olive. 

WINDSOR SANDWICH 

One cupful of cold boiled chicken chopped fine, 
a teaspoonful of finely chopped onion, a half leaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped chives. Salt and pepper to taste. 



moisten with a little mayonnaise dressing, mix well, 
and spread on thin slices of toasted bread. Cover 
with another slice of toasted bread, cut in halves, and 
gamidi with a radish. 

BISCUIT SANDWICH 

Roll biscuit dough very thin, about like piecrust, 
and spread with butter, then roll another and put on 
top of thb; cut out and bake in quick oven. When 
done, puli apart and spread with this mixture while 
warm. Take equal parts of chicken and ham, run 
through the meat chopper, season with celery salt and 
cayenne pepper; moisten with mayonnaise dressing. 

SARATOGA SANDWICH 

On a lightly buttered square slice of white bread, 
place a lettuce leaf that has been dipped in mayon- 
naise dressing ; on that lay four large fried oysters with 
a little horse-radish on top of the oysters, and cover 



with a lightly buttered slice of rye bread, and butter 
upper side of this slice. On this lay a slice of breast of 
cooked chicken; dust with salt and pepper and 1^^ on 
that crisp slices of fried bacon; cover this with a slice 
of white bread. Garnish top with radishes, cut fancy, 
serve with slice of lemon on the nde. 

SHERIDAN 'PARK CLUB SANDWICH 

Toast and butter three thin slices of white bread; 
place a lettuce leaf on the lower slice, and <mi its top 
put slices of chicken breast. Hien put another slice of 
toast on top of that with another leaf of lettuce, fol- 
lowed by thin slices of broiled breakfast bacon, topped 
by third slice of toasted bread. Garnish top with small 
pickles cut in slices lengthwise. Serve as soon as made. 

COLONIAL (CLUB) SANDWICH 

Toast and butter three slices of thinly cut bread; 
place slices of cold boiled chicken spread lightly with 
mayonnaise dressing on the lower slice, with a crisp let- 
tuce leaf. Then put another slice of toast on top oi 



that with a slice of ripe tomato spread lightly with 
mayonnaise dressing, topped by a third slice of toast 
spread with finely diopped celery that has been mixed 
with a little mayonnciise dressing. Lay on top of that 
sweet red peppers cut in ribbons; cut triangular. 

CHICKEN AND PAte DE FOIE 
CRAS SANDWICH 

Two tablespoonfuls p3f£ de fote gras and a cup 
of finely chopped cold boiled chicken; season with pep- 
per and salt; spread on a crisp lettuce leaf that has been 
dipped in French dressing, and place between thin 
slices of white bread. 

CHICKEN BISCUIT FINGER 

Chop cold boiled chicken very fine; add a Uttle 
chopped parsley; moisten with salad dressing; make 
rolls of the mixture about the size of a small pickle. 
Cover each roll with baking powder biscuit dough 
rolled thin, pressing the ends tightly. Brush with 
beaten egg and bake. 



PRESSED MOCK CHICKEN 

Boil a piece of fresh shoulder of pork until tender, 
adding pepper and salt to the water in which it is 
cooked. When done, run the meat throu^ the meat 
chopper and return to the liquor in which it was boiled 
in the kettle. Add enough rolled oats to absorb or 
thicken the liquid, season to suit the taste, and simmer 
from twenty to thirty mmutes; then pack into a bowl 
or crock; when cold, slice and place between thin slices 
of lightly buttered white bread. Garnish with pickles 
and radish roses. 



COUNTRY CLUB SANDWICH 

Use three slices of white bread thinly cut and 
lightly buttered; place a lettuce leaf that has been 
dipped in mayonnaise dressing on lower slice, and on 
top of that place slices of cold boiled chicken; then 
put another slice of bread and a lettuce leaf followed 
by thin slices of veal loaf, topped by another slice of 
bread with thinly sliced pickles on top. 



CHICAGO CLUB SANDWICH 

Toast.lightly two slices of white bread and one 
of rye; lightly butter and on the slices of white bread, 
place slices of cold cooked chicken and a couple of 
slices of bacon well crisped ; cover with the slice of rye 
bread and on that place a lettuce leaf that has been 
dipped in a little mayonnaise dressing; sprinkle with a 
little chopped green pepper, then cover with the other 
slice of white bread. 

TURKEY SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white or 
brown bread, place thin slices of turkey breast; spread 
a little cranberry jelly over this and sprinkle with finely 
chopped celery. 

HOT TURKEY SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered toast, place 
slices of warm turkey breast; over same pour a hot 
gravy made of slightly thickened turkey stock. Gar- 
nish with a pickle. 



TURKEY CLUB SANDWICH 

Toast three thin sHces of white bread and but- 
ter, on the lower sHce lay cold white breast of turkey; 
cover with another slice of toast; on that lay a thin 
slice of hot broiled ham; cover with another slice of 
buttered toast and press together. Serve on a lettuce 
leaf. Garnish with small pickles. 

GAME SANDWICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered bread, place 
slices of breast of roasted partridge; spread lightly 
with currant jelly and cover with another buttered slice 
of bread. Garnish with cress. 

TRUFFLE SANDWICH 

One tablespoonful of broiled trufBe, one-half 
breast of chicken, and two tablespoonfuls of sweet- 
breads chopped fine. Add a dash of mayonnaise 
dressing, salt and pepper. Place between slices of but- 
tered white bread, cut in oblong pieces. Garnish with 
pickle. 



HEAD CHEESE SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, place a lettuce leaf that has been dipped in 
mayonnaise dressing. On this place thin slices of head 
cheese, cut diagonally, and gamish with a pickle. 

SWEETBREAD SANDWICH 

Cook sweetbreads until tender. When cold, re- 
move skin, chop fine, season with salt and pepper, add 
one cup of finely chopped celery, and a dash of raayon- 
naise dressing; spread on thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. Cover with another slice and gamish 
with an olive. 

SAUSAGE SANDWICH 

Boil link sausages until done; when cold cut into 
thin slices; place between thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. Garnish with a pickle. 



GERMAN BOLOGNA SANDWICH 

Remove the skin from a bologna sausage and 
rub to a paste. Spread thin slice of lightly buttered 
rye bread with a Httle French mustard, then a layer of 
bologna, cover with another slice, and garnish with a 
pickle. 

FRANKFURT SAUSAGE SAND- 
WICH 

Cut cold boiled Frankfurt sausage into the thin- 
nest slices and place on slice of buttered white or rye 
bread; run a cucumber pickle through a meat chopper 
and sprinkle on lop of sausage. Place anodier but' 
tered slice over this. 

SALAMI (IT ALIAN SAUSAGE) 
SANDWICH 

Between slices of Hghdy buttered rye bread, 
place thin slices of salami. Garnish with an olive. 



PATE TiE F01E CRAS u mule bom the Kver of 
gccK, dticki, or turkeyt. Put one-half cup goose greas« m a (ryer 
on (tove; when hot lay in the Kven and baite with a spoon until 
tend«t; remove the Hven frcHn die pan and chop veiy fine. Add 
a snail onion ch<q>ped and boiled brown, season with salt and 
pepper and mix m some of the grease in which Bven were fried. 
The mixture must resemble paste. P(Ui dt f<^e gnu can be 
purchased m small cans. 

pAte de foie gras sandwich 

Od thin slices of toasted bread shorn of crusts, 
spread pSie de foie gras; add a dash of salt and 
cayenne; cover with another slice of toast and serve 
with a sweet pickle. 

PATE DE FOIE CRAS SAND- 
WICH NO. 2 

Three slices of white or brown bread lighdy but- 
tered; on the lower slice spread pate de foie gras, then 
put another slice of bread on top of that. Cover with 
delicate sKreds of tomato, tiny lettuce hearts with a 
dash of mayonnaise dressing, topped by a third slice of 
bread. Garnish with an olive. 



PATE DE FOIE CRAS SAND- 
WICH NO. 3 

One-half cup of pate de foie gras, remove the fat 
and mash to a smooth paste; season with a httle salt 
and a dash of cayenne pepper and drop of onion juice ; 
press the whole through a sieve. Spread on thin slices 
of buttered white bread and cover with another slice 
of buttered bread. Garnish top with slices of hard- 
boiled egg and an olive. 

IMITATION PATE DE FOIE CRAS 
SANDWICH 

Saute half a chopped onion in butter until brown ; 
add one-half dozen chicken livers, cover with se£tsoned 
chicken stock, and let simmer until tender; mash the 
livers fine and press through a sieve, season with salt, 
paprika, mustard, and a dash of curry powder. Put 
this paste in a cup, pour melted butter over top; when 
cold, remove the butter and cut in thin slices; place be- 
tween thin slices of white bread. Garnish with a pickle. 



CHEESE 



AMERICAN CHEESE SANDWICH 

Cream three tablespoonfuls of butter, add three 
tablespoocfuls of grated American cheese, one table- 
spoonful of anchovy essence, a dash of salt and pa- 
prika, one-fourth teaspoonfu! of mustard, and one- 
fourth cupful of finely chopped olives. Place mixture 
between thin slices of lightly buttered rye bread. 

AMERICAN CHEESE SAND- 
WICH NO. 2. 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, add one- 
fourth cupful of grated American cheese and one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, and season with salt, paprika, 
mustard, and anchovy essence. Place mixture between 
thin slices of white bread. Garnish with a pickle. 

AMERICAN CHEESE SAND- 
iVICH NO. 3 

Salted cracker slightly toasted, spread with 
American cheese; serve hot 



AMERICAN CHEESE SANDWICH 
NO. 4 

Melt a quarter of a pound of American cheese in 
a sauce pan, add the yolk of one egg beaten with two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, a dash of salt and red pepper, 
and half a teaspoonfu! of Worcestershire sauce. Take 
from the fire and when cold, spread on thin slices of 
white or rye bread. Press the two together and cut in 
strips. Garnish with a pickle. 

CHEESE RARE-BIT SANDWICH 

Grate a quarter of pound of American cheese 
fine; melt it in a sauce pan over the iire, add the yolks 
of two eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
a dash of salt and red pepper, and a teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire. Stir the mixture into die melted 
cheese ; when blended, remove from the fire, Euid when 
cool, spread it on thin slices of lightly buttered vt^te 
bread. Put the two slices together and garnish with 
an olive. 



BROWN BREAD AND AMERICAN 
CHEESE SANDWICH 

Steam the brown bread before spreading with 
butter, and cut in the usual way. Between the sHces, 
place grated American cheese and finely chopped 
English walnuts well salted. Garnish with an olive. 

BROWN BREAD AND AMERICAN 
CHEESE SANDWICH NO. 2 

Cut thin small rounds of brown bread and lightly 
butter; sprinkle with grated cheese; put two slices to- 
gether and cut in two. 

FRIED CHEESE SANDWICH 

Cut slices of white bread round with biscuit cut- 
ter; spread with paste made with half a cupful of fresh 
American cheese, mashed smooth with a little cream. 
Season with salt and paprika. Put slices together and 
fry a light brown in the blazer, in which a tablespoon- 
ful of butter has been melted. Serve hot 



NEUFCHATEL SANDWICH 

Mince a little candied orange very fine, add a 
dash of ginger, and mix with Neufchatel cheese which 
has been moistened with a little cream. Place be- 
tween thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. Gar- 
nish with an olive. 

NEUFCHATEL AND NUT SAND- 
WICH 

Mix with one roll of Neufchatel cheese, half a 
cupful of chopped almonds or butternuts; spread on 
thin slices of lightly buttered graham or Boston brown 
bread. Garnish with a small pickle. 

NEUFCHATEL AND OLIVE SAND- 
WICH 

Chop half a dozen olives and a half-cupful of 
-pecan meats fine; mix with a cake of Neufchatel 
cheese, moisten with a little cream, and place between 
thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. 



HARLEQUIN SANDWICH 

Lighdy buttered slices of white and graham 
bread. Spread each widi Neufchatel cheese and 
sprinkle with a few English walnut meats. Put a 
white and a brown slice together. 



BERLIN SANDWICH 

Chop olives fine and moisten with mayonnaise 
dressing; spread on buttered slices of bread. Spread 
other slices with Neufchatel cheese and put slices to- 
gether in pairs. 



LIMBURCER CHEESE SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of lightly buttered rye bread 
with limburger cheese, then with thin slices of bologna 
sausage; cover with another slice of rye bread. Gar- 
nish with a pickle. 



ROQUEFORT SANDWICH 

Mix grated cheese with thick cream to lUcike a 
paste; place between thinly cut slices of lightly but- 
tered white bread. Garnish with an olive. 



GERMAN CLUB SANDWICH 

Thin slices of pumpernickel, rye, and white bread 
are used for this sandwich. Rub half a pound of 
smearcase until smooth, add three tabtespoonfuU of 
thick cream and two of melted butter; season with 
pepper and salt. Spread some of this cheese mbtture 
on a buttered slice of pumpernickel bread, followed by 
a slice of rye covered with the cheese, covered with a 
slice of buttered white bread. Garnish with slice of 
pickle. 

PARMESAN SANDWICH ' 

Finely grated Paimesan cheese, a dash of salt 
and pepper, one tablespoonful of tomato catsup, muc 
imd place between squares of unsweetened cracker. 



Put crackers on a thin plate, set in hot oven for three 
minutes or until the cheese melts and the cracker be- 
comes crisp. Serve hot. 

PARMESAN AND RADISH SAND- 
WICH 

Peel radishes and chop very fine; place on ice 
until needed; then mix with a very little whipped 
cream; spread the mixture between thin oblongs of 
brown bread, dust a little grated Parmesan cheese 
over the top before the second slice is put on. 

PARMESAN AND CELERY SAND- 
WICH 

Whip a gill of cream, add to it sufiicient grated 
cheese, American or Parmesan, to make a stiff paste; 
spread lightly buttered white bread with this and 
sprinkle thickly with very finely minced celery. &)ver 
widi another slice of buttered bread. 



SEAFOAM SANDWICH 

Spread crisp seafoam crackers with butter, a 
sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese, and very finely 
chopped celery or olives. Place two together and 



, FRENCH CHEESE SANDWICH 

Slice brown bread very thin, butter, lay thinly 
sliced cheese on top, and spread over cheese a thick 
layer of any kind of jam, and cover with another slice 
of bread. 

MOROCCO SANDWICH 

Melt a cupful of cheese, American or Parmesan; 
while soft, add enough mayonnaise to make it spread 
easily; lay this on thin slices of lightly buttered 
whole wheat bread and slice stuffed olives over cheese. 
Cover with another slice of lightly buttered bread; gar- 
nish top with stuffed olive. 



CLUB HOUSE SANDWICH 

Rub to a paste one tablespoonful of butter and 
two tablespoonfuls of soft club house cheese, a table- 
spoonful of grated Parmesan, a dash of salt and pep- 
per, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a teaspoon- 
ful of anchovy paste. Spread the above mixture on 
thin slices of toasted bread. Put slices together and 
cut triangular. 

COTTAGE SANDWICH 

Cut slices of brown bread, do not remove crusts; 
rub half a pint of cottage cheese to a smooth paste, 
then press it through fine sieve. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, slowly beating the while, add 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream; spread each slice of the bread with mix- 
ture; cover with another thin slice of white bread and 
on top of diat another thin layer of cheese; place a 
slice of brown bread on top and trim into shape. Gar- 
nish with an olive. 



COTTAGE SANDWICH NO. 2 

Od thin slices of lightly buttered graham bread 
spread cottage cheese that has been mued with a little 
diopped chives. Cover with another slice of bread. 

CRUYERE SANDWICH 

Cut rye and white bread in very thin slices and 
spread sparingly with butter; cut cold tongue and 
gruyere cheese in thin slices; on white bread arrange 
the tongue, rye bread over tongue and cheese over rye 
bread; repeat, put under a weight and let stand for two 
hours; then cut crosswise in thin slices. Garnish with 
ohve. 

COTTAGE AND OLIVE SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of lightly buttered graham 
bread with mustard, then a thin layer of cottage cheese, 
and then a layer of chopped olives that have been 
mixed with a little mayonnaise dressing. Cover with 
another slice of bread and press together. 



BOHEMIAN SANDWICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered graham bread, 
q>read a thin layer of mustard; on top of that spread 
a layer of cottage cheese, then a layer of olives that 
have been chopped fine, and mixed with a iittle mayon- 
naise dressing. Cover with another slice of bread and 
press together. Cut in strips and serve on a lettuce 
leaf. 

DUTCH SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered rye bread, 
spread highly seasoned cottage cheese ; on this sprinkle 
finely chopped olives. Cut in diamond shape. Gar- 
nish with a sprig of parsley. 

WAUKESHA CHEESE SANDWICH 

Cream one brick of Waukesha cheese with a little 
sweet cream, add a pinch of salt, a few chopped pecan 
nut meats, and a few chopped olives. Place between 
thin slices of lightly buttered rye bread. 



IMPERIAL CHEESE SANDWICH 

One-half jar of Imperial cheese, one-half bottle 
(small size) of stuffed olives sliced fine, four table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Mix well and spread on thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread with a crisp let- 
tuce leaf between the slices. 

SWISS CHEESE SANDWICH 

Cut rye bread very thin. Spread lightly with 
butter. Between the pieces place thin slices of Swiss 
cheese. Spread with mustard. Garnish with a dill 
pickle sliced thin. ' 

SWISS CHEESE SANDWICH NO. 2 

Butter thin slices of pumpernickel bread. Be- 
tween slices put a thin layer of Swiss cheese and leaves 
of watercress. Cut in long narrow strips. Garnish 
with an olive. 



GREEN CHEESE SANDWICH 

Spread on thin slices of tightly buttered white 
bread, green cheese grated fine. Put slices together 
and gamidi widi a sour pickle. 

SWISS AND NUT SANDWICH 

Chop English walnuts fine; mix with grated 
Swiss cheese. Add a little thick cream to moisten, sea- 
son with salt and cayenne. Place between thin slices 
of lightly buttered brown bread. Garnish with an 
olive. 

CREAM CHEESE AND OLIVE SAND- 
WICH 

Work cream cheese until smooth, add one-half 
quanti^ of chopped olives, season with salt, and 
moisten with mayonnaise. Place between thin slices 
of lightly buttered rye bread. 



CREAM CHEESE AND OLIVE SAND- 
IVICH NO. 2 

Chop olives fine, mix with cream cheese, add a 
little sweet cream to moisten, season with salt and 
paprika. Place between thin slice» of Ughtly buttered 
white or brown bread. 



DAIRY SANDWICH 

On thin slices of Swiss cheese, spread fresh but- 
ter and put the two sUces together. 



CREAM CHEESE AND PIMOLAS 
SANDWICH 

Mix one cream cheese with an equal amount of 
chopped pimolas; season with salt and cayenne, and 
moisten with a little mayonnaise dressing. Place be^ 
tween thin slices of hghtty buttered white or brown 
bread. 



CREAM CHEESE AND PINEAPPLE 
SANDWICH 

Chop the pineapple fine and drain. Spread lightly 
buttered white bread thinly with cream -cheeie; 
sprinkle with pineapple and press together, then cut 
the sandwiches in thin, slender strips. 

CREAM CHEESE AND WALNUT 
SANDWICH 

One cup of walnut meals, chopped fine; add 
enough cream cheese to make a paste ; add salt and a 
bit o£ red pepper. Place between lightly buttered 
white bread cut in fancy shapes. 

CREAM CHEESE AND NUT SAND- 
WICH 
Chop English walnuts fine, mix with ' cream 
cheese Euid a little chopped celery; add a dash of 
mayonnaise dressing. Place the mixture between thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread. Garnish with a 
sprig of watercress. 



CREAM CHEESE AND BEET 
SANDWICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, lay 
a crisp lettuce leaf; on that spread cream cheese, on 
top of the cheese sprinkle chopped pickled beets. 
Cover with another slice of buttered bread. 

CREAM CHEESE AND CUCUMBER 
SANDWICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered brown bread 
qtread cream cheese; over same sprinkle chopped cu- 
cumbers that have been mixed with a little French 
dressing. G)ver with another sUce of li{^dy buttered 
I»own bread. 

CREAM CHEESE AND GUAVA 
JELLY SANDWICH 

Spread an equal number of slices of lighdy but- 
tered white bread with guava jelly and cream dieese. 
Put slices together and trim the edges. 



CREAM CHEESE AND GREEN PEP- 
PER SANDWICH 

Spread lightly buttered white bread with cream 
cheese ; on this lay thin slices of green pepper that have 
been dipped in mayonnaise dressing. Cover with an- 
other slice of bread, cut oblong, and garnish with a 
sprig of parsley and an olive. 

CREAM CHEESE AND PARSLEY 
SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of Boston brown bread hghtly 
buttered, with cream cheese, mixed with a little 
chopped parsley. Put two slices together and garnish 
with an olive. 

CREAM CHEESE AND LETTUCE 
SANDWICH 

Slice white bread very thin, when you have pared 
off the crust. Butter smoothly and lightly. Spread 



one slice with cream cheese and lay upon the other a 
crisp lettuce leaf that has been dipped in mayonnaise 
dressing. Put slices together. Garnish with an olive. 



CHEESE AND BAR-LE-DUC CUR- 
RANT SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
with cream cheese; sprinkle currants over the cheese; 
then a teaspoonful of maple syrup. Cover with Etnother 
slice of bread. 



TOASTED WAFERS WITH CREAM 
CHEESE 

Mix a cream cheese with cream and paprika to 
make a mixture that is soft and yet will bold its shape. 
Just before serving, toast the wafers and press a star of 
cheese upon each. (Use a star tube.) Finish with a 
slice of pimola. 






RUSSIAN SANDWICH 



Spread zepherettes with cream cheese and cover 
with choF^>ed olives mixed with a little mayomiaise. 
Place a zepberette over each and press together. 



ORIENTAL SANDWICH 

Mix one cake of cream cheese with a httle maple 
■yrup, then add sliced maraschino cherries. Place be- 
tween thin slices of lightly buttered bread. Garnish 
with a spray of smitax and a cherry. 



DAINTY CHEESE SANDWICH 

A dainty cheese sandwich to serve at afternoon 
parties is made by placing the halves of an English 
wabut on either side of a square of cream cheese. 
Serve on a crisp lettuce leaf. 



MACAROON SANDWICH 

Be sure the macaroons are fresh. Lay a shce of 
fresh cream cheese between two macaroons, pressing 
them firmly together. Keep in a cool place until 
wanted. 



FAIRMONT SANDWICHES 

Work a small cream cheese until smooth, using a 
wooden spoon, and season with salt. Chop red and 
green peppers separately and wring in cheese'cloth to 
remove some of the moisture. Mix one-half of the 
cheese with some of the red pwpper, the other half the 
green pepper. Spread four thin slices of white bread 
sparingly with butter, on the lower slice spread the 
green pepper mixture, cover with anodier slice of 
bread, on top of that spi'ead a layer of the red pepper 
mixture, cover with the third slice and spread that with 
the green pepper mixture. Cover with the fourth slice 
of bread. Fold in cheese-cloth and press under a 
weight, then cut in thin slices downward. 



ITALIAN SANDWICH 

Take an equal numbei of slices of white and 
graham bread, spread with butter and cream cheese; 
on these put finely chopped olives that have been mixed 
with a little mayonnaise dressing. Press slices together 
in pairs with a crisp lettuce leaf between each pair, and 
cut diagonally. Garnish with parsley. 

BUFFET SANDWICH 

One teacupful grated American or Parmesan 
cheese, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, a little salt and pepper. 
Mix well, spread on ihin slices of lightly buttered rye 
bread. Put two slices together and cut in triangles. 

BUMMERS CUSTARD SANDWICH 

Take a cake of Roquefort cheese and divide in 
diirds; moisten one third with brandy, another third 
with olive oil, and the other third with Worcestershire 
sauce. Mix all together Euid place between split water 
biscuits toasted. Good for a stag lunch. 



NUT 



ENGLISH WALNUT SANDWICH 

Chop Elnglish walnuts fine, and over them pour 
the following dressing; five yolks of eggs well beaten, 
juice of two lemons, a good half-cup of water, one tea- 
spoonfut of sugar, and a pinch of salt Let it cook 
until the eggs thicken. When cool, place between thin 
slices of Ugbtly buttered white bread. 

ENGLISH WALNUT SAND- 
WICH NO. 2 

Chop fine a cupful of English walnut meats; 
moisten with a little thick cream and place between 
a slice of brown bread and one of white lightly but- 
tered. Cut in rounds with a biscuit cutter. 

ENGLISH WALNUT SAND- 
WICH NO. 3 

Chop Elnglish walnuts fiune; moisten with a Uttle 
mayoimaise dressing, and place between thin slices of 
lightly buttered brown bread. 



■ . , '.J 

ENCLiSH WALNUT AND FIC 
SANDWICH 

Chop figa fine, adding enough water to make a 
nnooth paste, and cook slowly until of a consistency to 
spread. Flavor with a little orange juice or grated 
candied orange peel. Chop one-half cup of English 
walnuts fine, add to the fig paste filling. Place be- 
tween tfiin slices of white or brown bread lighdy but- 
tered, cut in fanciful shapes. 



ENCLISH WALNUT AND CINCER 
SANDWICH 

Three thin slices of lightly buttered white bread; 
between the first and second place a layer of chopped, 
preserved ginger, mixed with a little thick cream; and 
between the second and diird slices, place a layer of 
chopped English wabuts; then tie up each sandwich 
neatly with blue baby ribbon. 



ENGLISH WALNUT AND RAISIN 
SANDWICH 

Chop equal quantities of English wahiuts and 
raisins fine, mix with a little cream, and place between 
thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. Garnish 
top with a raisin. 

ENGLISH WALNUT AND DATE 
SANDWICH 

Chop English walnut meats line, mix with an 
equal amount of chopped dates; moisten with a litde 
whipped cream and place mixture between buttered 
crackers or thin slices of white bread. 

SALTED ENGLISH WALNUT 
SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of Boston brown bread with 
butter; then chop Ejiglish walnuts fine, sprinkle with 
salt, and put a layer of the nuts between two slices of 
bread. 



BLACK WALNUT SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered brown 
bread spread black walnut meats chopped rather fine. 
Nice to serve with hot chocolate. 



CHESTNUT SANDWICH 

Shell and blanch the chestnuts, then boil fifteen 
minutes; drain and cool, and when cool chop fine. Add 
an equal quantity of finely chopped celery, moisten 
with a little French dressmg, mix, and put between thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread, with a crisp let' 
tuce leaf between. 



PECAN SANDWICH 

One cup of chopped pecans, one cup of chopped 
dates, mixed with a tablespoonful of whipped cream 
to moisten. Place between thin slices of white or whole 
wheat bread. 



PECAN SANDWICH NO. 2 

Chop pecan nuts very line, moisten with a little 
mayonnaise dressing eind place between thin slices of 
lightly buttered white bread. 



PECAN SANDWICH NO. 3 

Mix one cup of finely chopped pecan nuts with a 
little chutney. Place between thin slices of buttered 
white bread. 



PECAN AND ENGLISH WALNUT 
SANDWICH 

Chop fine one-half cup each of pecan and walnut 
meats, add one-half cup of olives stoned and chopjied 
fine, moisten with a little mayonnaise dressing and place 
between thin slices of lightly buttered grahcun bread. 



HICKORY NUT SANDWICH 

Mix together chopped hickory nuts and pot dieese, 
add a dash of paprika, and place between thin slices 
of either white or brown bread lightly buttered. Gar- 
nish with an olive. 

HICKORY NUT AND CHEESE 
SANDWICH 

Beat to a cream one tablespoonful of butter, then 
add three heapmg tciblespoonfuls of cream cheese. Mix 
thoroughly, adding a little sweet cream if necessary to 
make creamy. Chop a quarter-pound of hickory nuts 
fine, and blend with the cheese paste ; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little lemon juice. Spread on thin slices 
of brown bread. Put two slices together and garnish 
with an olive. 

PEANUT SANDWICH 

Chop roasted and salted peanuts, mix with a little 
. mayonnaise dressing, place between thin slices of lightly 
buttered entire wheat bread. 



;_ . .. .. _■ ^. ..J 

PEANUT SANDWICH NO. 2 

Chop a cup of freshly roasted shelled peanuts 
very line, mix with three tablespoon fuls of mayonnaise 
dressing, add salt to taste, and sprinkle upon lightly 
buttered slices of white bread. Put slices together and 
cut in tiny squares. 

PEANUT SANDWICH NO. 3 

Chop i>eanuts fine or put through a coffee mill, salt 
to taste, and add a little sherry or port wine to make a 
thick paste. Spread on thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. Put two slices together and garnish with 
a candied cherry. 

PEANUT SANDWICH NO. 4 

Cut white bread in rounds with the biscuit cutter, 
cover with whipped cream slightly sweetened. Sprinkle 
chopped peanuts over the cream. Cover with another 
round of bread and serve as soon as made. 



PEANUT AND BANANA SAND- 
WICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
place a crisp lettuce leaf that has been dipped in mayon- 
naise dressing; on this place slices- of banana and 
sprinkle with ground pe£uiuts. 



PEANUT MAYONNAISE SAND- 
IVICH 

Heat a tablespoonful of butter in a pan and add 
the juice of a lemon. Season with salt and pepper. 
To this gradually add a well beaten egg, thinned widi 
sour cream, adding it slowly, stirring the while to pre- 
vent it from curdling. When it begbs to diicken. re- 
move and stir in enough ground peanuts to make a good 
spreading butter. In preparing sandwiches of this, cut 
bread thin, spread with the mayonnaise; and lay be- 
tween the slices a crisp lettuce leaf. Cut the sand- 
wiches in fancy shapes. Dainty for noon-day luncheon. 



ALMOND SANDWICH 

Cut white bread in rounds and lightly butter, put 
on a layer of finely choi^wd almonds, add a sprinkling 
of salt and a dash of lemon juice ; cover with another 
round of bread and press a blanched nut in the centre. 
Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

ALMOND SANDWICH NO. 2 

Whip one-half gill of sweet cream to a stiff froth; 
add one-half pound of almonds, blanched and pounded 
to a paste, with a little rose or orange flower water; add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar and spread over thin slices 
of white bread; roll into tiny cylinders or cut in narrow 
strips. 

ALMOND SANDWICH NO. 3 

On thin slices of buttered Boston brown bread 
sprinkle finely chopped ahnonds, cover with another 
slice of bread, and cut in squares. 



i^, ...-. . :..--^-.--/ 

ALMOND AND CELERY SANDWICH 
Chop almonds fine and mix with twice (he bulk of 
finely chopped celery; moisten with a little mayonnaise 
dressing and put between thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. 

ALMOND AND LEMON SANDWICH 

Grate the thin yellow rind of one lemon, being 
careful not to rub off any of the bitter white pith ; blanch 
and pound one-half pound of almonds, adding slowly 
the juice of one lemon. When a smooth paste is formed, 
add the grated lemon rind. Rub the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs to a smooth paste, add the almond mixture. 
and spread over thin slices of lightly buttered white bread. 
Cover with another slice of bread and cut in triangles. 

TOASTED ALMOND SANDWICH 
Toast almonds to a tight brown and grate; form 
into a paste with a little lemon juice, add a little salt, 
spread on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread and 
cover with another slice and cut in strips. 



SWEET 



1 { 



ORANGE SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
place thin slices of orange that have been lightly dusted 
with powdered sugar. 

ORANGE MARMALADE SAND- 
WICH 

Spread thinly buttered white bread with orange 
marmalade. Put two slices together and cut the sand- 
wich in slender strips. 

ORANGE MARMALADE SAND- 
WICH NO. 2 

On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
spread orange marmalade. Put four slices together, 
put under a weight and when well pressed, trim off the 
crusb and cut down in thin slices. Serve on lace paper 
doily. 



._. J 



DAINTY RIBBON SANDWICH 

Cut the crust from a loaf of v^ite and of brown 
bread. Cut three slices one-half inch thick from each 
loaf. Spread with butter and orange marmalade. Put 
six slices together and press firmly. Trim the edges 
evenly, then with a sharp knife cut into slices about 
three-quarters of an inch thick. Place the sandwich 
OD a lace paper doily. Serve as soon as made. 

CEM SANDWICH 

Grate orange peel very fine, add a dash of ginger, 
spread thin slices of buttered white bread with Neuf- 
chatel cheese, sprinkle orange peel and ginger over the 
cheese. Put slices together. Garnish with an olive. 

LEMON SANDWICH 

Slice a lemon very thin and remove the rind, 
sprinkle vnth powdered sugar and place between thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread cut round. Gar- 
nish top with a candied cherry. 



FRUIT SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of white bread with chocolate 
cream butter, on this place a layer of fresh fruit such as 
baneuias. strawberries, or raspberries; cover with an- 
other slice, and garnish top with a sugared berry. 

STRAWBERRY SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread, place strawberries cut id halves, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. Garnish top of sandwich with a whole 
sugared berry. 



CRAPE SANDWICH 

Remove skins and seeds from one pound of white 
grapes. Chop grapes, one large apple, and two stalks 
of celery fine. Mix with a little French dressing and 
place between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread. Cut sandwiches in strips. 






RED RASPBERRY SANDWICH 

Mix berries with thick cream and a little pow- 
dered sugar and place between thinly cut slices of but' 
tered white bread. Garnish top with a berry. 

APPLE SANDWICH 

Between thin sHces of buttered white bread place 
thin shces of tart apples, which have been steeped for 
an hour in a~ mixture of lemon juice and sugar. 

APPLE SANDWICH NO. 2 

On thm slices of lightly buttered white bread 
spread baked aii^le. Dust with powdered sugar. Cover 
with another slice of bread and cut in strips. 

APPLE BUTTER SANDWICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, 
spread apple butter. Sprinkle chopped candied orange 
peel, cover with another slice of bread. 






PINEAPPLE SANDWICH 



One cup of pineapple cut fine, two tablespoonfuls 
of lemon juice, and one cupful of sugar. Cook until 
thick, and when cold spread upon lady hngers and press 
together. White bread may be used. 

CHERRY SANDWICH 

One cup of maraschino cherries cut in small 
pieces, mixed with one-half cup of English walnuts 
chopped fine. Moisten with whipped cream. Spread 
on thin slices of white buttered bread, put two slices 
together and cut in squares. Garnish with a mara- 
schino cherry. 

CHERRY SANDWICH NO. 2 

Chop a quarter of a pound of candied cherries 
fine : add a few drops of sherry. Mix and spread on 
rounds of lightly buttered white bread. Cover with an- 
other slice and garnish with a candied cherry. 



- \ 
J 



CANDIED CHERRY SANDWICH 

Chop candied cherries very fine, add as manx. 
seeded raisins chopped fine, moisten with orange juice. 
Mix to a paste and spread on thin slices of white bread 
hghtly buttered. Put two slices together and garnish 
top with a cherry. 

CANDIED CHERRY SANDWICH 
NO. 2 

Chop candied cherries fine, moisten with orange 
juice, place between thin slices of hghtly buttered white 
bread. Garnish top with a cherry. 

CREAM AND CANDIED FRUIT 
SANDWICH 

Cut candied cherries fine and moisten with a few 
drops of wine. Cut sponge cake in squares and cover 
with whipped cream that has been sweetened and 



flavored and chilled; on top of this sprinkle the candied 
cherries. Giver with another piece of the cake and serve 



CAKE AND CANDIED CHERRY 
SANDWICH 

Cut sponge cake into slices a quarter of an inch 
thick; cut the slices into rounds. Chop candied cherries 
fine, moisten with a little orange juice. Spread the mix- 
ture on the rounds of cake ; press two pieces together. 
Garnish with a candied cherry. 



TUTTI-FRUTTI SANDWICH 

Chop candied cherries, peaches, and apricots, add 
a little sherry wine and mix to a paste. Spread on thin 
slices of lightly buttered white bread, cover with another 
slice and cut m strips. 



BAN-ANA SANDWICH 

Mash ripe bananas; add a dash of lemon juice; 
sweeten to taste. Place between thin slices of buttered 
white bread cut oblong. 



BANANA SANDWICH NO. 2 

On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
spread mayonnaise dressing then add thin slices of 
bananas; cover with another slice of bread. Serve on 
a lettuce leaf. 



BANANA AND CHERRY SAND- 
WICH 

Mash three bananas line, add one-half cup of 
chopped maraschino cherries, a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar, moisten with a little thick cream, mix, and 
place between thin slices of lightly buttered white 
bread. Gamish with a cherry. 



1 



BANANA TOAST SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of lightly buttered gr^^ham 
Wead, place three slices of banana; toast quickly to a 
light brown. Serve hot 

BANANA AND TOASTED BROWN 
BREAD SANDWICH 

Between thin slices of buttered brown bread from 
which the crusts have been removed, place slices of 
banana, press together and place in the oven and leave 
until bread is toasted. Serve hot Very good for in- 
valids. 

ORIENTAL SANDWICH 

Mash four bananas; add one-half cup of mara- 
schino cherries, two tablespoonfuls of honey, and two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet diick cream. Mix and spread 
on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, cover with 
another slice, and garnish top vnth a cherry. 



FIVE O'CLOCK TEA 

Mash bananas fine, add an equal amount of 
mashed red raspberries, moisten with a little sweet 
thick cream. Place between thin slices of lightly but- 
tered white bread. Cut in fancy shapes. 

FlC SANDWICH 

Chop figs fine, moisten with a little maple syrup 
and work to a paste; spread mixture on thin slices of 
lightly buttered white bread, roll, and tie with baby 
ribbon. 

FIC SANDWICH NO. 2 

One-half pound of finely chopped figs, one-third 
cup of sugar, half-cup of boiling water, and two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice; mix these ingredients and 
cook in a double boiler until thick. When cool spread 
mixture on thin slices of buttered white bread, cover 
with another slice and cut in fancy shapes. 



FIC SANDWICH NO. 3 

Stew figs and chop; season with a little wine and 
place between lightly buttered slices of white or graham 
bread. 



FAVORITE SANDWICH 

Chop stewed figs, add a dash of lemon juice, 
spread on thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, 
and cover with another slice. Garnish with a spray of 
smilax. 



FIC AND NUT SANDWICH 

Cut rounds of bread with a biscuit cutter and 
lightly butter. For each sandwich use two dried figs, 
fill the figs with the English walnut meats chopped; roU 
the figs in powdered sugar and place between the 
rounds of bread. 



FIG AND NUT SANDWICH N O. 2 

Chop figs and English walnuts fine ; moisten wlh 
whipped cream; place between thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread. Garnish with smilax. 



FIG AND ROLL 

Split twelve figs, scrape out the soft portion and 
rub this to a paste; butter thin slices of fresh white or 
brown bread, remove the crust, spread on the fig paste 
and roll the bread carefully; press for a moment, then 
roll it in a piece of tissue paper, presnng the ends as 
you would an old-fashioned motto, or it may be tied 
with baby ribbon of any color. 



LADY FINGER SANDWICH 

Chop figs fine and rub to a smooth paste; add a 
dash of orange juice and spread on lady fingers; press 
two fingers together and garnish with a spray of smilax. 



DATE. AND FIG SANDWICH 

To two cups of dates with atones ronoved, add 
one cup of washed figs, also one cup of seeded raisins ; 
chop very fine and add enough water to make a paste 
to spread easily. Let this boil one minute, and when 
cool spread between thin slices of buttered white bread, 
cover with another slice and garnish top with a sugared 
date. 

DATE AND NUT SANDWICH 

Between slices of brown bread lightly buttered 
and cut thin, place this filling ; dates stoned and 
diopped fine, walnut meats chopped fine, moistened 
with a little sherry wine. Garnish with a spray of 
smilax. 



DATE AND ORANGE SANDWICH 

Remove the pulp and inner skin from six oranges, 
cut into small pieces, add one poimd of chopped dates 
and a half-cup of walnut meats chopped fine; add half- 



cup of powdered sugar, moisten with a little sherry or 
port wine, and place the mixture between slices of 
lightly buttered white bread. 

RAISIN SANDWICH 

Cut large raisins in halves with a sharp knife; take 
out the seeds, dip in brandy or sherry ; do not let them 
remain a moment in the liquor; cut white bread in 
rounds, spread with butter, and put a layer of raisins 
between the two rounds of bread. Garnish top with a 
raisin and serve with lemonade. 

FRUIT JELLY SANDWICH 

Soak one box of gelatine in one cup of cold water, 
and dissolve it in one cup of boiling water. Add one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of lemon juice, one cup of 
orange juice, and half a cup of mashed red raspberries. 
When cool spread on squares of sponge cake, or thinly 
cut and lightly buttered white bread. Cover with an- 
other slice. 



JELLY AND NUT SANDWICH 

Chop English walnuts fine and stir into whipped 
cream; spread currant jelly on thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread; on top of that spread the walnuts 
and cream, cover that v/iih currant jelly, and lastly 
cover with another slice of bread. Serve as soon as 
made. 

CURRANT JELLY SANDWICH 

Cut fresh bread in as thin slices as possible. But- 
ter them evenly, spread with currant jelly and sprinkle 
with fresh grated cocoanut; roll each slice separately 
and tie the roll with baby ribbon. Make when ready 



CURRANT JELLY AND ENGLISH 
WALNUT SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
with currant jelly and sprinkle with finely chopped 
English walnut meats. Cover with another slice and 
cut m oblong shape. 



TOMATO JELLY SANDWICH 

One cupful of boileii and strained tomatoes, 
seasoned with salt, pepper, paprika and a little tabasco 
sauce. Dissolve quarter box of gelatine in one-half 
cup of water, add to the tomatoes, and mix thoroughly. 
Cool in forms that will slice m shape of sandwiches to 
be used. Place between thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread. 

QUINCE JELLY AND NUT SAND- 
WICH 

Mix a cupful of quince jelly with half a cupful 
of finely chopped hickory or pecan nuts and spread on 
thin slices of lighdy buttered white bread. Cover with 
anodier slice and cut in squares. 

QUINCE JELLY SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
with quince jelly. Put slices together, cut in squares, 
and garnish with a spray of maidenhair fem. 



l: :. i '^^3/3 



GOOSEBERRY JAM SANDWICH 

Spread thinly cut slices of lightly buttered white 
bread with gooseberry jam; place slices together and 
cut in slender strips. Garnish with a spray of smilax. 
Serve as soon as made. 

CLARET JELLY SANDWICH 

Soak one box of gelatioe in one cup of cold water, 
then dissolve in one cup of boiling water, add one cup 
of sugar and strain. When cold, add the juice of half 
a lemon, and one cup of claret and set in a cool place. 
When ready for use, cover thin slices of lightly buttered 
white bread with the jelly, cover with another slice of 
buttered bread and cut in strips. 

MARBLED BREAD SANDWICH 

Make an equal number of white and brown bread 
sandwiches, lightly spread with butter and currant jelly. 
press sandwiches together in alternating colors, cut in 
diin strips. Serve on lace paper doily. 



BANANA SANDWICH 

Place peeled bananas, sliced across, between thin 
slices of buttered brown bread from which the crusts 
have been trimmed. Place in the oven and leave imtil 
bread is toasted and you will have delicious and nour- 
ishing hot sandwiches. Very good for invalids. 

MARRON SANDWICH 

Cut the bread in rounds vrith a biscuit cutter; put 
a marron glace in the centre and around it whipped 
cream that has been sweetened and flavored. Nice for 
afternoon luncheon. 

HONEY SANDWICH 

Spread thinly cut slices of lightly buttered white 
bread with honey ; put slices together and garnish with 
a pansy. Serve as soon as made. 

HONEY AND BANANA SANDWICH 

Mixed strained honey with mashed ripe bananas; 

place'belween thinly cut slices of buttered white bread. 



FRENCH TEA SANDWICH 

On thinly cut slicies of lightly buttered white 
bread cut round, spread cream cheese and currant jelly. 
Cover with another slice and sprinkle top of sandwich 
with crumbs of pistache. 

DAINTY PEANUT SANDWICH 

One cup of sugar and enough water to cover; boil 
until it threads from spoon; stir this into the white of 
an egg beaten stifi. Add one cup of peanuts ground 
fine; spread the paste on salted wafers; let stand a 
while before serving. 

VERANDA SANDWICH 

Chop crystallized ginger fine, moisten with a dash 
of orange juice; place between Ain slices of lightly 
buttered white bread; cut In fancy shapes and garnish 
each with a spray of smllax. 



ff 



t 



PUFF PASTE SANDWICH 

Roll puff paste very thin; cut round with a bis- 
cuit cutter; bake to a delicate brown. Add chopped 
almonds to apple or peach marmalade and place the 
mixture between two rounds of pastry. 

DREAM SANDWICH 

Cold chopped boiled sweetened prunes, mix with 
Elnglish walnuts chopped fine, moisten with a little of 
the prune syrup, and place between thin slices of lightly 
buttered white bread. Garnish with a spray of smilax. 

CHOCOLATE SANDWICH 

Melt a teaspoonful of butter in a saucepan, stir 
into it all the unsweetened chocolate (bitter) it will 
take up. Grate the chocolate directly into the butter. 
Stir until butter and chocolate are thoroughly mixed. 
Take from the fire and let it get cold before spreading 
on thin slices of graham bread, lightly buttered. Cover 
with another slice and cut in strips. 



M 
W 



158 



CHOCOLATE AND NUT SANDWICH 

Take two tablespoonfuU of sweetened chocolate, 
mix with a httle water and heat to a thick paste; chop 
fine a half-pint of Elnglish walnuts or hickory nuts, stir 
the chocolate paste when cooling, add the nuts, and 
spread thinly on narrow wafers. Let harden, then press 
the two wafers together. 

MAPLE CREAM SANDWICH 
One-half pound of maple sugar, one-half pound 
of brown sugar, one-half cup of water, cuid one-half 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar; boil these together until 
they form a soft ball when dipped into cold water. 
When nearly cold, beat widi a fork until thick and 
creamy; spread on an equal number of thin round slices 
of buttered white and entire wheat bread, and place to- 
gether in pairs, one of each kind of bread. 

MAPLE SUGAR SANDWICH 
On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread 
spread maple sugar, put slices together and cut widi a 
maple leaf cutter. Serve with hot coffee. 



LOC CABIN SANDWICH 

Boil one cupful of maple syrup, one-half cupful 
chopped dates, one-half cupful chopped almonds, one' 
half cupful pineapple together, let cook for five minutes, 
take from fire, and add teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cut 
the bread in long thin strips and remove the crust. 
Spread with the mixture. Put slices together and wrap 
in oiled paper; let stand a few hours, when the paper 
can be removed and they will keep the shape desired. 

CINCER SANDWICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered graham bread, 
sprinkle finely chopped Canton ginger; press slices to- 
gether. 



CINCER AND ORANCE SANDWICH 

Soften Neufchatel cheese with a little cream; 
spread on thin slices of white bread and cover with 



finely minced candied orange peel and preserved gin- 
ger; cover with another sUce of bread and garnish with 
a spray of maidenhair fern. 

CHESTNUT AND PRUNE SAND- 
WICH 

Boil chestnuts twenty minutes ; peel and chop fine, 
add an equal amount of cooked prunes chopped; 
moisten with a little cream and place between thin 
slices of lightly buttered whole wheat bread. Garnish 
top with a maraschino cherry. 

HALLOWEEN SANDWICH 

One cup of celery, one orange cut fine, one-half 
cup of raisins seeded and halved; add one-half cup of 
grated apple to one-half cup of mayonnaise and mix 
with this; place between thin slices of lighdy buttered 
white or whole wheat bread. Garnish with a spray of 
smilax. 



INDIA SANDWICH 

One cup each preserved ginger ssxA candied 
orange peel chopped fine; mix with one-half cup of 
thick cream and spread on white bread diinly buttered. 
Garnish with stick of candied orange peel. 

WHIPPED CREAM SANDWICH 

One cup of thick cream, one tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar. Beat until soUd, then add three drops 
of vanilla, let it become chilled, then spread on lady 
fingers, press together and serve as soon as made. 

SCHOOL SANDWICH 

On thin slices of lightly buttered white bread, 
spread brown sugar ; cover with another slice of bread 
and wrap in wax paper. 



COCOANUT SANDWICH 

One and one-half cup of grated cocoanut, 006- 
half cup of ElngUsh walnuts chopped fine, one table- 
spoonful of rose water, three tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
mix well, moisten with three tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream. Spread mixture on thin slices of buttered white 
bread, cover with another slice and cut in strips. 

COCOANUT SANDWICH NO. 2 

Roll out one-half pound of pufi paste until one- 
fourth of an inch thick, then place it in a baking tin 
and bake in a hot oven until a golden brown; when 
done, let it get cold; whip one-half pint of cream to a 
stiff dry froth, add to it three tablespoonfuls each of 
powdered white sugar and desiccated cocoanut Cut 
the pastry into strips three inches long by one inch wide ; 
spread some of the cocoanut cream on each piece, put 
two pieces together and sprinkle powdered white sugar 
thickly over Uiem. 



NUT AND FRUIT SANDWICH 

Mash half-pound of pitted prunes, mix them with 
a half-pound of seedless raisins, half-pound of stoned 
dates, and the same quantity of washed figs, quarter of 
a pound of blanched almonds, a quarter of a pound of 
peeled Brazil nuts, and one pound of pecans. Put 
through the meat chopper, add the juice of two oranges 
and knead the mixture with your hands ; pack it down 
into baking powder boxes or into any round tin and 
stand it aside in a cold place; when wanted for use, 
remove from the tins, cut thin, and place slices between 
lightly buttered white bread cut round. Garnish top 
with a maraschino cherry. 

FUDGE SANDWICH 

Melt on tin in oven, fudge or fresh chocolate 
creams until soft enough to be spread; spread wafer 
crackers with this filling, tie each two with white baby 
ribbon. Serve with lemonade. 



164 



VIOLET SANDWICH 

Cover the butter with violets over night; slice 
white bread thin and spread with the butter ; put slices 
together and cover v«lh the petals of the violets. 

ROSE-LEAF SANDWICH 

Flavor fresh unsalted butter with rose by packing 
in closed jar with a layer of rose leaves and leaving 
several hours. Any fragrant rose will answer. Cut 
white bread into dainty strips or circles, spread with the 
perfumed butter, put one or two rose leaves between 
the slices, allowing the edges to show. 

CLOVER SANDWICH 

Trim the crust from a loaf of bread and place 
bread in a stone jar with clover blossoms; wrap the but- 
ter in cheese-cloth and also place in the jar; leave over 
night. Cut the bread thin and spread with the clover- 
scented butter; put two slices together and garnish with 
a clover blossom. 



NASTURTIUM SANDWICH 

G)ver the bread and butter with Dasturtium flow- 
ers over night; cut white bread thin and spread lighdy 
with the butter. Put two nasturtium flowers between 
the slices. 

CHINESE NUT SANDWICH 

Stone two cups of Chinese nuts, moisten with 
three tablespoonfuls of thick cream, sweetened with a 
litde honey; spread on slices of lighdy buttered white 
bread. Cover with another slice and cut io squares. 

CREAM SANDWICH 

Cream four ounces of butter, add gradually four 
ounces of brown sugar, four ounces of fine flour, four 
eggs one by one, a squeeze of lemon juice or a table- 
spoonful of rose water, and lastly a teaspoonful of 
baking powder. When thoroughly mixed, bake in 
shallow tins. Whip up till perfectly thick a quarter of 
a pint of cream, spread this on half the strips and cover 
with the other sandwich-fashion. Ice diese sandwiches 
over with chocolate icing. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



L.,. ■•-■.., . ■..-■■■■ -■ '■ -^ 

BOSTON BAKED BEAN SANDWICH 

Press cold baked beans through a colander, add 
two stalks of celery chopped fine, a teaspoonful of 
horse-radish, and a little tomato catsup; mix and spread 
on buttered slices of Boston brown bread, cover with 
another slice, and garnish with a radish and a pickle. 

NEW ENGLAND SANDWICH 

Mash beans that have been cooked well, add a 
dash of catsup, lay on a crisp lettuce leaf between 
Ughtly buttered white or brown bread. Garnish with 
a pickte. 

MEXICAN SANDWICH 

Put large square salted crackers into the oven to 
heat When warm, put on each cracker a large table- 
spoonful of baked beans that has been mixed with a 
little catsup heated with butter and highly seasoned. 



e. 



POTATO SANDWICH 



Run three good sized boiled potatoes through the 
potato ricer. season with salt and pepper, add the yolks 
of four hard-boiled eggs that have been rubbed to a . 
paste, luid one tablespoonful of melted butter. Mix 
dioroughly and place between diin slices of lightly but- 
tered brown bread. Garnish with a pickle. 

PO TATO AND HAM SANDWICH 

Into a pint of well seasoned mashed potatoes, stir 
two eggs widiout beating; ^read two tablespoonfuls of 
this potato out smoothly, and lay on it a slice of neatly 
trimmed boiled ham. Cover this with the potato, pindi 
the edges together. Fry in butter until a delicate brown. 

RICE SANDWICH 

Creole rice may be shaped to a drcle. in which 
make a cavity; leave this to stand in a cool place until 
firm; when so, cut in half, horizontally. Spread peach 



preserves neatly on lower ring, mask well with synip. 
E^it on the upper ring and mask well with the syrup. 
Put in a cool place until ready to serve ; cut V-shape 
and serve widi unflavored cream. 



POPCORN SANDWICH 

Pass two cupfuls of freshly popped com ihrou^ 
the meat chopper, place this in the chopping bowt. add 
a dash of salt and cayenne pepper, five boned sardines, 
a dash of Worcestershire, ctnd enough tomato catsup 
to form a paste. Spread tkas oa circles of hot buttered 
toasL Sprinkle wilh Parmesan cheese and cri^ in hot 
oven. Serve as soon as made. 



DYSPEPTIC SANDWICH 

Spread thin slices of gluten bread widi peanut but- 
ter, mixed with crisp brown bread cnmibs. put the two 
slices together, and cut in strips. 



MOSAIC SANDWICH 

Cut two slices each of white and dark graham 
bread; cream one-quarter cup- of butter until white. 
Spread a slice of white bread with the creamed butter, 
then place a slice of graham bread on it; then spread 
graham bread with creamed butter; repeat Place a 
light weight on all four slices. When butter hardens 
remove the weight, then cut in thin slices downward 

SANDWICH ROLLS 

Take four cupfuls of light bread dough, spread 
it on the breadboard and roll diin. Spread diis sheet 
with one cupful of butter, fold it up and roll out again; 
fold as before and let it stand a few minutes in a warm 
place. Now roll and fold twice more. Let stand a 
short time, roll out and cut into biscuits, place in pans, 
not touching, brush over the tops with a little lard and 
hot water. Let rise one hour and bake. These aie 
very light and will pull apart in Jtakes. Any filling 
may be used. 



CANAPES 



CANAPES 

Canapes are savories, or appetizers, usually served 
before the first course at dinners, luncheons, or chafing 
dish suppers. One slice only is used for each canape. 
They may be dipped in melted butter, toasted or fried 
and cut into fancy shapes. The mixture is spread on 
top, the top is garnished. 

CAVIARE CANAPES 

Season the caviare with a da^ of lemon juice and 
a very little onion juice. Spread mixture on toasted 
rounds of white bread and sprinkle top with finely 
chopped hard-boiled egg. Garnish with cress. 

HERRING CANAPES 

Toast slices of white bread, remove the crusts and 
cut oblong. Spread them with butler mixed with a very 
little French mustard, cover with finely minced sour 
pickle; place upon each two boneless herrings. Sprinkle 
finely chopped hard-cooked egg yolk over top. 



ANCHOVY CANAPES 

Toast roUDcb of white bread to a nice even brown ; 
place two boneless anchovies on a round of toast, and 
sprinkle over same the yolks of hard-boiled eggs; dust 
with white pepper and garnish with a slice of lemon. 

LOBSTER CANAPES 

Chop the meat of a boiled lobster fine, season 
with pepper and salt, a dash of lemon juice, luid a little 
mayonnaise dressing and spread on rounds of toasted 
bread. Garnish with a sprig of parsley. 

CRAB CANAPES 

Put the contents of a can of crab meat into a 
saucepan, add one tablespoonful of sherry and let um- 
mer until the liquid disappears. Fry one small finely 
minced onion in a tablespoonful of butter until brown, 
add a cupful of milk that has blended with a table- 
spoonful of flour, let it come to a boil, then add the 
crab meat and let simmer for ten minutes; remove from 
the fire and when cool spread on rounds of toast and 



sprinkle with grated Pannesan cbeese ; place in a hot 
oven until a golden brown. Serve hot 

SARDINE CANAPES 

Pound boneless and skinless sardines to a paste ; 
moisten with a little olive oil, and a dash of lemon juice; 
spread mixture on thin rounds of toasted bread. Ar- 
range leaves of watercress around the edge and put 
finely chopped hard-boiled egg in the centre. 

SARDINE CANAPES NO. 2 

Take a box of sardines, remove bone and skin, 
rub to a paste with three ounces of fresh butter, and 
gradually add four tablespoonfuls of thick cream, until 
a paste is formed. Spread the paste over toasted rounds 
of white bread; sprinkle chopped olives over the whole. 

SARDELLEN CANAPES 

Toast a thin biscuit cracker and lightly butter. 
Put a slice of hard-boiled egg in the centre and coi! 
one well cleaned sardellen around the egg. Garnish 
with a sHce of lemon. 



SALMON CANAPES 

Toast rounds of white bread and spread with 
mehed butter; neit with finely flaked salmon, to which 
add a dash of Worcestershire sauce, and a drop of olive 
oil; sprinkle finely chopped hard-boiled egg over top. 
Garnish with a small sprig of parsley. 

FISH CANAPES 

Rub a quarter of a pound of any kind of cooked 
fish to a paste; season widi pepper and salt, and a few 
drops of onion juice. Moisten with one tablespoonful 
of sauce tartare. Spread the above mixture on rounds 
of buttered brown bread, sprinkle over lop finely 
chopped dill pickles. 

HAM CANAPES 
Mince and mash to a smooth paste half a pound 
of cold boiled ham, add two tablespoonfuls of currant 
jelly, one tablespoon of soft butter, and a half a tea- 
spoon of curry powder or half this amoimt of paprika 
if the latter be preferred. Spread this paste on round 
pieces of toast and garnish widi chopped, cooked eggs. 



whites and yolks separate, iniiiced pickles, green pep- 
pers, and olives. 

HAM CANAPES NO. 2 
Cut bread in rounds one-fourth inch thick. Saute 
in butter; spread with finely chopped ham mixed to a 
paste with a little melted butter and seasoned. Sprinkle 
top with finely chopped hard-boiled eggs, 

BACON CANAPES 
Cut bread in squares one-fourth inch thick, saute 
the bacon fat Spread with a little French mustard, 
cover with fried bacon finely chopped, and sprinkle 
vfith finely chopped pimolas. 

TONGUE CANAPES 
Toast one-fourth inch slices of graham bread, cut 
in rounds and fried in butter; mix. cooked tongue that 
has been chopped fine with creamed butter till it is a 
pciste, and add one tablespoonful of capers to a cupful 
of tongue. Spread on bread, add a dash of salt and 
cayenne, and sprinkle with a little finely chopped water- 






CHICKEN CANAPES 



Chop fine the white meat of a chicken and two 
■talks of celery. Seaaoa with salt, pepper, and vinegar. 
Let stand a few minutes, then drain dry; add a little 
mayonnaise dressing and mix well. Serve on rounds of 
toast that have been spread lightly with melted butter. 
Sprinkle chopped chives over the whole. 

NUT AND OLIVE CANAPES 

Fry rounds of white bread in butter; mix equal 
quantities of chopped English wabuts and olives widi 
enough mayonnaise dressing to moisten. Spread on 
bread and garnish with chopped pimentos. 

TOM AT OANDCUCUMBER CANAPES 

Saute rounds of white bread in butter. Fry slices 
of tomato in deep fat; place one slice of tomato on each 
round of bread. Dust with salt and pepper, and li^tly 
spread with mayonnaise dressing followed by a thin 
slice of cucumber. Sprinkle top with finely chopped 
hard-boiled egg. 



INDEX 



LIST OF RECIPES 



FISH 



Oyster 9 

Fried Oyster 9 

Deviled Oyster 9 

Oyster Loaf 10 

Oyster and Caviare. ... 10 

Grill Room Oyster 10 

Oyster Salad It 

Caviare II 

Caviare No. 2 . II 

Caviare — Lobster 12 

Roe 12 

Shad-Roe 12 

Shad-Roe and Cucumber 13 

Lobster 13 

Lobster No. 2 . 13 

Lobster No. 3 14 

Lobster No. 4 14 

Lobster Salad 15 

Dutch Lunch 13 

Lobster and Mushroom. . 1 5 

Sardine 16 

Sardine No. 2 16 

Sardine No. 3 17 

Sardine No. 4 17 

Sardine No. 5 , . . 18 

Sardme and Cheese .... 18 



Sardine Club 18 

Spanish 19 

Broiled Sardine 19 

Austrian 20 

Sahnon 20 

Salmon No. 2 21 

Salmon No. 3 21 

Salnwn No. 4 21 

Salmon and Ham 22 

Pimento 22 

Shrimp 22 

Shrimp Salad 23 

Lenten . 23 

Crab 23 

Mock Crab 24 

Anchovy 24 

Anchovy No. 2 24 

Fish 25 

Fish and Egg 25 

Sardellen Paste 25 

Sardellen 26 

Halibut 26 

Halibut No. 2 26 

Anchovy Toast 27 

French 27 

Hot Creamed Codfish.. . 27 



" 
" 



EGG 



Egg 31 

Egg No. 2 31 

Fried Egg 31 

Ribbon 32 

Egg and Lettuce 32 

Egg and Olive 33 

Egg and Cucumber. ... 33 

Egg and Brown Bread . . 33 

Puritan 34 



Gold 

Montpelier 

Japanese Egg 

Brown Egg '. . 

Easter 

Cbevy Chase 

Outing 

TraveUer*8 

Curried Egg and Oyster 



34 
35 
35 
35 
36 
36 
36 
37 
37 



SALAD 



Tomato 41 

Tomato No. 2. 41 

Tomato and Omoa 41 

Tomato and Horse-Radish 42 

Tomato and Nut 42 

Specialty 42 

Epicurean 43 

Beet 43 

Beet and Cheese 43 

Watercress 44 

Watercress and Egg .... 44 

Watercress and Egg No. 2 44 

Mushroom 45 

Western 45 

Piccalilli 45 

Green Pepper and Egg . 46 

Nasturtium 46 

Ripe Olive 46 

Olive Squares 47 

Olive and Pepper 47 

Olive and Chicken Liver. 47 

Olive and Cheese 48 

Olive and Caper 48 

Olive and Caper No. 2. . 48 



Olive and Nut 49 

Cucumber 49 

Cucumber No. 2 49 

Cucumber No. 3 50 

Cucumber No. 4 50 

Cucumber and Chives ... 50 

Cucumber and Cheese. . . 51 
Cucumber and Red Pep- 

^td ............. J I 

Cucumber and Onion. . . 51 

DiB 52 

Spinach 52 

Onion 52 

Mustard 53 

Mosaic 53 

Horse-Radish 53 

Celery 54 

Celery No. 2 54 

Celery and Elnglish Wal- 
nut 54 

Celery and English Wal- 
nut No. 2 55 

Lettuce 55 

Lettuce No. 2 55 

Boston Brown Bread. . . 56 



SALAD — Continiied 



Bar Harbor 56 

Radish 56 

String Bean 57 

Apple and Celery. .... 57 

Apple and Grape 57 

Apple Salad 58 

Waldorf 58 



Novelty 

St. Patrick 

Tartar 

Grape Fruit . . . 
Cherry Salad . . 
Pineapple Salad 
Mock Oyster . . 



58 
59 
59 
59 
60 
60 
60 



MEAT 



Roast Beef 63 

Roast Beef No. 2 63 

Hot Roast Beef 63 

Roast Beef and Tomato . 64 

Roast Beef and Jam ... 64 

Roast Beef Salad 64 

Rare Beef 65 

Corned Beef 65 

Chipped Beef 65 

Picnic 65 

Cannibal 66 

Meat and Mushroom. . . 66 

Fried Cold Meat 67 

Broiled Steak 67 



Ham 



67 



Ham No. 2 67 

Ham No. 3 68 

Ham No. 4 68 

Hot Ham 68 

Hot Ham No. 2 69 

Ham Fingers 69 

Ham and Egg 69 

Ham and Egg Club .... 70 

Ham and Nut 70 

Potted Ham 71 

Potted Ham No. 2 71 

Party Sandwich Rolls. . 71 



Westphalian Ham . . . 

Automobile 

Slag 

Boston Club 

Veal 

Calf's Liver 

Calf's Liver and Bacon 

Texas 

Tongue 

Tongue No. 2 

Tongue and Egg 

Deviled Tongue 

Tongue and Tomato.. 

Excursion 

Lamb 

Lalhb No. 2 

Mutton 

Mutton No. 2 

Mutton and Pea 

Summer 

Potted Meat 

Farmer 

Pork 

Mince Meat 

Southern (Bacon) . . . 

Tip-Top 

Clucl&n 



72 
72 
72 
73 
73 
74 
74 
74 
75 
75 
75 
76 
76 
77 
77 
77 
78 
78 
78 
79 
80 
80 
80 
81 
81 
81 
62 



MEAT— Contmuttl 



Chicken No. 2 82 

Chicken No. 3 82 

Chicken No. 4 83 

Hot Chicken 83 

Chicken Liver 83 

Pressed Chicken 84 

Jellied Chicken 84 

Cream of Chicken 83 

Chicken and Egg 83 

Chicken Surprise 86 

Chicken and Ham 86 

Qiicken and Ham (Club) 86 
Chicken and English 

Wabut 87 

Chicken and Almond . . 87 

Chicken and Green Pepper 88 

Asjric Jelly 88 

Reception 89 

Queen . 89 

French Roll 89 

Creole 90 

Windsor 90 

Biscuit 91 

Saratoga 91 



Sheridan Park Club. ... 92 

Colonial (Club) 92 

Chicken and Pate de 

Foie Cras 93 

Chicken Biscuit Finger. . 93 
Pressed Mock Chicken. . 94 

Country Club 94 

Chicago Club 95 

Turkey 95 

Hot Turkey 95 

Turkey Club 96 

Game 96 

Truffle 96 

Head Cheese 97 

Sweetbread 97 

Sausage 97 

German Bologna 98 

Frankfurt Sausage .... 98 
Salami (Italian Sausage) 98 
Pate de foie gras .... 99 
Pati de foie gras No. 2 . 99 
Pate de foie gras No. 3 . 1 00 
Imitation Pate de foie 

gras 100 



CHEESE 



American Cheese 103 

American No. 2 1 03 

American No. 3 1 03 

American No. 4 1 04 

Cheese Rare-bit 104 

Brown Bread and Ameri- 
can Cheese 1 05 

Brown Bread and Ameri- 
can Cheese No. 2 ... 1 05 
Fried Cheese .*. . 1 05 



Neufchatel 106 

Neufchatel and Nut. .. 106 
Neufchatel and Olive ... 1 06 

Harlequin 107 

Berlin ....107 

Limburger Cheese 107 

Roquefort 108 

German Club 1 08 

Parmesan 1 08 

Parmesan and Radish . . 1 09 



CHEESE— Contmiied 



Parmesan and Celery ... 1 09 

Seafoam 110 

French Cheese . 110 

Morocco 110 

Club House Ill 

Cottage Ill 

Cottage No. 2 112 

Gruyere 112 

Cottage and Olive 112 

Bohemian 1 1 3 

Dutch 113 

Waukesha Cheese 113 

Imperial Cheese 114 

Swiss Cheese 114 

Swiss Cheese No. 2 .... 1 1 4 

Green Cheese 115 

Swiss and Nut 115 

Cream Cheese and Olive .115 
Cream Cheese and Olive 

No. 2 116 

Dairy 116 

Cream Cheese and Pimo- 

las 116 

Cream Cheese and Pine- 
apple 117 

Cream Cheese and Wal- 
nut 117 



Cream Cheese and Nut ..117 
Cream Cheese and Beet. 1 1 8 
Cream Cheese and Cu- 
cumber 118 

Cream Cheese and Guava 
Jelly 118 

Cream Cheese and Green 
Pepper 119 

Cream Cheese and Pars- 
ley 119 

Cream Cheese and Let- 
tuce 119 

Cream Cheese and Bar-le 
Due Currant 120 

Toasted Wafers with 
Cream Qieese ...... 1 20 

Russian 121 

Oriental 121 

Dainty Cheese 121 

Macaroon 1 22 

Fairmont 1 22 

Italian 123 

Buffet 123 

Bummers Custard Sand- 
wich 123 



NUT 



English Walnut 127 

English Wahut No. 2.127 
English Wahut No. 3.127 
English Walnut and Fig. 1 28 
English Wabut and Gin- 
ger 128 



English Walnut and Rai- 
sin 129 

English Walnut and 
Date 129 

Salted EnglUh Walnut. 129 

Black Wahut 130 



NUT — Contmufd 



Chestnut 1 30 

Pecan 130 

Pecan No. 2 131 

Pecan No. 3 131 

Pecan and English Wal- 
nut ' 131 

Hickory Nut 132 

Hickory Nut and Cheese. 1 32 

Peanut 1 32 

Peanut No. 2 133 



Peanut No. 3 133 

Peanut No. 4^ 133 

Peanut and Banana .... 1 34 
Peanut Mayonnaise ... 1 34 

Almond 135 

Ahnond No. 2 135 

Almond No. 3 135 

Almond and Celery .... 1 36 
AIm<Mid and Lemon .... 1 36 
Toasted Almond 1 36 



SWEET 



Orange 1 39 

Orange Marmalade .... 1 39 
Orange Marmalade No. 

2 139 

Dainty Ribbon 1 40 

Gem 140 

Lemon 1 40 

Fruit 141 

Strawberry 141 

Grape .141 

Red Raspberry 1 42 

Apple 142 

Apple No. 2... 142 

Apple Butter 1 42 

Pineiapple 143 

Cherry 1 43 

Cherry No. 2 143 

Candied Cherry 1 44 

Candied Cherry No. 2 . . 1 44 
Cream & Candied Fruit . 1 44 
Cake & Candied Cherry 1 45 

Tutti-Frutti 145 

Banana 1 46 

Banana No. 2 146 



Banana and Cherry. . . . 146 

Banana Toast 147 

Banana and Toasted 

Brown Bread 147 

Oriental 147 

Five O'clock Tea 1 48 

Fig 148 

Fig No. 2 148 

Fig No. 3 149 

Favorite 1 49 

Fig and Nut 149 

Fig and Nut No. 2 150 

Fig and Roll. 150 

Lady Finger 1 50 

Date and Fig 151 

Date and Nut 151 

Date and Orange 151 

Raisin .152 

Fruit Jelly 152 

Jelly and Nut 153 

Currant Jelly 1 53 

Currant Jelly and English 

Walnut 153 

Tomato Jelly 1 54 



SWEET— Contmiied 



Quince Jelly and Nut ..154 

Quince Jelly 1 54 

Gooseberry Jam 155 

Claret Jelly 155 

Marbled Bread 155 

Banana 1 56 

Marron 1 56 

Honey 1 56 

Honey and Banana .... 1 56 

French Tea 157 

Dainty Peanut 157 

Veranda 157 

Puff Paste 1 58 

Dream 1 58 

Chocolate 1 58 

Chocolate and Nut .... 1 59 

Maple Cream 1 59 

Maple Sugar 1 59 



Log Cabin 1 60 

Ginger 1 60 

Ginger and Orange .... 1 60 
Chestnut and Prune. . . .161 

Hallowe'en 161 

India 162 

Whipped Cream 1 62 

School 1 62 

Cocoanut «... 1 63 

Cocoanut No. 2 1 63 

Nut and Fruit 1 64 

Fudge 1 64 

Violet 165 

Rose-Leaf 165 

Clover 1 65 

Nasturtium 1 66 

Chinese Nut 1 66 

Cream 1 66 



MISCELLANEOUS 



Boston Baked Bean ... 1 69 

New England 1 69 

Mexican 1 69 

Potato 1 70 

Potato and Ham. . 170 



Rice 170 

Popcorn 1 71 

Dyspeptic 1 71 

Mosaic 1 72 

Sandwich Rolls 1 72 



CANAPES 



Canapes « 1 75 

Caviare 1 75 

Herring 1 75 

Anchovy 1 76 

Lobster 1 76 

Crab 176 

Sardine 1 77 

Sardine No. 2 177 

Sardellen • . . 1 77 



Salmon 1 78 

Fish 1 78 

Ham 178 

Ham No. 2. 179 

Bacon 1 79 

Tongue 1 79 

Chicken 1 80 

Nut and Olive 180 

Tomato and Cucumber . . 1 80 







06M 



i 



