





H 



r 



How We 





1909 




THE LIBRARY 



IE UNIVERSITY 



OF CAL [FORNIA 



LOS ANGELES 




TESTED AND TRIED 
RECIPES 



OF 



AZUSA and VICINITY 
HOUSEKEEPERS 




COMPILED BY 

The Azusa Woman's Club 

AZUSA, CALIFORNIA 

1909 

Books may be had from the Secretary of the Club at any time. 



Azusa Woman's Club 



ORGANIZED - - - 1901 
FEDERATED - - - 1901 



OFFICERS OF 1909 

PRESIDENT Mrs. J. H. Anderson 

FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT - Mrs. J. T. Lindley 
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT - Mrs. W. A. Davis 
RECORDING SECRETARY - - Mrs. J. E. Hill 
CORRESPONDING SECRETARY Mrs. H. M. Coulter 

TREASURER Mrs. C. I*. Smith 

CHAIRMAN PROG. COMMITTEE Mrs. A. M. Brown 



TO OUR PATRONS 



+fVX presenting this book to you, we beg to explain that 

I there has been no attempt to compile a complete cook- 

book, but simply to arrange some of the choice recipes, 

so kindly donated by the ladies of Anisa and vicinity and a 

few of the pioneers of this valley. 

To former residents of this locality, we hope this book may 
be like the greetings of an old friend ; to Azusa people, we 
trust it may prove a help ; to the newcomers, we recommend 
it, for it tells of how to prepare the dainties of our in- 
comparable country. 

We wish to thank the business firms whose generous sup- 
port in advertising made possible the issuing of this book. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 




HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



First National Bank 

Azusa Valley Savings Bank 



will make Your Spare Money Work for You. Open a 
Savings Account here and Make Your Idle Money "Get 
Busy" Earning 4 Per Cent. Interest Compounded Semi- 
Annually. One dollar will Start an account that will both 
surprise and delight you with its growth. Five Cents a Day 
in Ten Years amounts to $182.50 ; 50 Cents a Day to $1825.00, 
besides Interest. In our Commercial Department a Check 
Account Insures Every Financial Convenience Consistent 
wirh Conservative Banking. 



First National Bank 

Azusa Valley Savings Bank 



AZUSA CALIFORNIA 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Title . . .1 

Officers Azusa Woman's Club 1909 . 2 

To Our Patrons 3 

Things Good Housekeepers Should Know . 7 

RECIPES:- 

Soups . . . . . . .9-11 

Fish .. . . ... 1 13-14 

Breads with Yeast . . . . . 15-16 

Meats . . ... 17-25 

Vegetables . '.-'. . . . 27-34 

Eggs 34-36 

Breads with Baking Powder . . . 37-41 

Salads and Salad Dressings . . 43-48 

Cheese . . . ;':",. . 49 

Pies ... . 51-53 

Pickles, Spiced Fruits, etc. . . . 55-59 

Preserves, Marmalades, etc. . . . 61-62 

Cakes . . . . . . . 63-71 

Doughnuts, Cookies and Small Cakes . . 73-78 

Sandwiches .... 79-80 

Puddings . . . . .81 -86 

Desserts . . ... . 87-90 

Frozen Desserts . . . . . 9 1 -92 

Candy ... 93-94 

Beverages . . . . . 95 



HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



AZUSA 



The Home of the Homeseeker 



Good 

Residence 

Lots 

$100 and up 



FOR INFORMATION WRITE 

Azusa 
Chamber Commerce 

WARD A. STEVENS, Secy. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 



Things Good Housekeepers Should Know 



One rounded tablespoonful butter makes _ 1 

granulated sugar.. 1 

Two flour 1 

spice (ground) 1 

Five medium-sized nutmegs _ 1 

One quart sifted flour __ 1 

pint granulated sugar 1 

butter 1 

ordinary liquid , __ 1 

chopped moat 1 

cupful rice - l/ 

corn meal 6 

dried currants 6 

grated bread crumbs _ 2 

Two ordinary teacups make 1 



oz- 
" 



oz. 



The following table gives the time required for cooking- 
and the quantity of sugar to the quart for canning the various 



kinds of fruit: 



Quantity 
of sugar 
to quart 
6 ounces; 
4 



Time 
for 

boiling 

Cherries 5 minutes 

Raspberries 6 

Blackberries 6 

Plums 10 " 

Pie plant 10 

Sour pears 30 

Bartlett pears 20 

Peaches 8 

Strawberries _ 8 

Peaches, whole 15 

Pineapple, sliced - 15 

Siberian crab apples 25 

Sour apples, sliced 10 

Ripe currants 6 

Wild grapes 10 

Tomatoes _ 20 

Gooseberries 8 

Quinces, sliced 15 

Two tablespoons (well heaped) granulated sugar is equal 
to 1 ounce. 

Two teacups of granulated sugar is equal to 1 pound ; or 
1 heaping pint of sugar weighs ] pound. 



6 
10 

8 
4 
6 
4 

8 

4 

6 

8 

5 

8 

8 



8 

10 



8 



HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



01 SMITH & STUART GROCERS 




Bradford's Bread Agency Chase & Sanborn's Coffee 

Fresh Every Morning Has no equal. Each can bears 

Everything: fresh and appetizing at our store. date of guarantee 

ALL ROADS LEAD TO 

Azusa 

Mercantile Company's 
Store 

QUALITY IS OUR STANDARD. 
DO OTHERS SELL FOR LESS? 



SOLE AGENTS FOR 

Packard, Utz & Dunn's, Walkover and Napatan 
Shoes, Royal Worcester Corsets, Sunburst. Silk, "Thorough- 
bred" Hats, "Nufangl" Trousers, Hart Schaffner & Marx 
Clothing, Queen Undermuslins, Faultless Waists, "Elite"' 
Petticoats, and Butterick Patterns. 

AZUSA MERCANTILE CO. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 



CREAM OF CORN SOUP. 

Three pints sweet milk, 4 ears green corn,' scraped frbm 
cob, first splitting each* row of grains, or, 1 can of tender corn 
passed through meat grinder, 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 of 
flour, salt and pepper to taste. Cook. corn thoroughly alone. 
Bring milk to boil, mix butter arid flour well, stir into corn' and 
pour all into the milk. Let boil one minute. 

Mrs. L. B. Shook. 

ECONOMICAL SOUP. 

Cut into small pieces 3 good sized potatoes, 1 large onion, 
1 head celery, 4 tomatoes. 1 sweet pepper. Cover with a quart 
of salted water and boil until well done, then add a pint of milk 
and a lump of butter. 

Mrs. C. H. Lee. 

BOUILLON. 

Seven quarts cold water, 4 pounds of beef and a knuckle 
of veal. Cut 2 pounds of the beef into small pieces and fry 
brown with one onion. 8 whole cloves, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 car- 
rot, 1 turnip, several pieces of celery, 1 cup of tomatoes, sprig 
of parsley, 1 bay leaf, 7 whole pepper corns, and juice of 1 
lemon. Cook slowly for 7 hours. Clear it when cold. 

K. H. 
SOUP. 

1 cup canned corn, 1 cup tomatoes, 2 cups stock, 2 sliced 
onions, 1% tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon flour. Simmer 
corn and tomatoes 20 minutes, then strain. Blend the flo.ur 
and butter before putting into liquid. Use stock made from 
beef and veal. Mrs. Hazzard. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

2 cups milk, 3 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, .2 
cups tomato juice, pepper to taste, ^4 teaspoon baking soda, 
l /2 teaspoon salt. Make white sauce of milk, flour, salt and 
pepper. Mix tomato and soda. Let the mixture stand 5 
minutes, add to white sauce, heat and serve immediately. 

Fannie Granville. 

BISQUE SOUP. 

n /2 can tomatoes, 2 tablespoons rice, 1 onion, 1 tablespoon 
chopped celery. Cook one hour in double boiler. After it is 
cooked add a tiny bit of soda. Strain or rub through a 



_10 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

colander, then add 1 quart of milk, salt and pepper to taste,, 
then heat. Will servo twelve persons. 

Mrs. Geo. R. Stewart. 

CREAM TOMATO SOUP. 

Place over the fire a quart of peeled tomatoes, stew them soft 
with a pinch of soda. Strain it so that no seeds remain, set 
it over the fire again, add a quart of hot boiled milk, season* 
with salt, pepper and a piece of butler the size of an egg. Add 
3 tablespoonfuls of rolled crackers and serve hot. Canned! 
tomatoes may be used in place of fresh ones. 

Mrs. J. C. Wright. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Put 1 quart of new milk in a double boiler, adding salt to 
taste. Also one tablespoont'ul of mstantaneous tapioca or com- 
starch. Boil four large tomatoes until soft, then strain throughi 
a wire sieve, adding 1/2 teaspoon of soda, then put tomatoes. 
into the milk. Mrs. J. J. Ayers. 

GERMAN NOODLES. 

Take 2 eggs, beat the white and yolk together. Add 1 
tablespoonful of water. Salt to taste. Put the beaten eggs 
into a deep dish. Gradually add flour to thicken. When 
mixed without sticking, put on a floured board and work in,- 
enough flour to make stiff. Divide it into lumps the size of an 
egg and roll out very thin. Lay aside on a cloth and let 
partly dry. Then roll together and with a sharp knife cut 
in very fine strips. Shake them well apart to avoid lumps- 
when cooking. Mrs. Oscar. 

HOME MADE NOODLES. 

Beat up an egg, add a little sail and enough flour to make- 
stiff dough. Roll out in very thin sheets. Let dry and cut 
in fine strips. These will keep a long time. Mrs. Katz 

FRIED ONION SOUP. 

Slice 3 or 4 large onions and fry them in butter. Whenv 
thoroughly cooked add meat soup or stock and season with 
pepper and salt. Do not strain, but serve with onions in soup. 

Mrs. Mace. 
NOODLE SOUP. 

Take a soup bone, salt, and cook for 2 or 3 hours. Then 
take 1 egg and put as much flour as will work into it. Roll 
out very thin, then make into a roll and slice off with sharp. 
knife, put into broth and cook for 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Robt. E. Smith. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One quart oysters, 1 quart milk and enough of the strained 
liquor and cold water to make 1 pint. Let the water and! 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. H_ 

liquor come to a boil, skim, then add the milk, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Let boil, then throw in the 
oysters and the minute they commence to boil take from stove 
and serve. If desired, a few cracker crumbs may be added 
before removing. 

BEEF TEA. 

Two pounds of lean beof cut in small pieces in double 
boiler. Cover with cold water and let stand for 2 hours. 
Then bring to a boil. Strain and season as desired. 

Mrs. Geo. R. Stewart. 
FISH BISQUE. 

Two cups of cold cooked fish (the leftovers of boiled sal- 
mon, halibut or canned salmon), 1 pint of oyster liquor, 1 cup 
of hot water and 1 of milk, 2 tablespoons of butter, 1 of flour, 
Vii cup of pounded crackers, pepper, salt and a bit of minced 
parsley, 1 egg well beaten. In one saucepan heat oyster liquor 
and water. When it boils, stir in the fish (minced), with 
pepper salt and parsley. In another saucepan have ready the 
milk heated to scalding with a pinch of soda. Stir into it the 
butter rubbed with the flour and cracker. Just before adding 
this to the fish, put in the beaten egg. Cook the fish 5 minutes, 
pour into a hot tureen, add the thickened milk and serve. 

Gertrude Johnson. 
CRISP CRACKERS. 

Butter thin crackers or split and butter thick crackers 
and brown in a hot oven. Mrs. Samuel A. Ellis. 

EGG GRUEL 

One cupful of hot broth skimmed, 1 egg, Vs teaspoon salt. 
Beat the white and yolk of the egg separately. Add the hot 
beef broth to the yolk, stirring continually. AVhip the white 
with the salt to a stiff froth and add to the broth. Reheat and 
serve hot. Mrs. Samuel A. Ellis. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

One and one-half cups of celery. 2 tablespoons of butter, 
1 pint of water, ^ cup of flour, 1 cup of milk, !/> teaspoon salt, 
1 cup of cream, % teaspoon white pepper. Cook the celery in 
boiling water until very soft, strain and add 1o the liquid which 
has been heated. Thicken with the flour which has been 
stirred into the melted butter. 

Mrs. Samuel A. Ellis. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 

Three potatoes, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 cups of milk, 1 teaspoon 
of salt, i/> cup of cream, 1 /^> teaspoon onion juice. Cook pota- 
toes until soft ; mash. Strain with the heated liquid, add the 
beaten yolks and seasoning arid boil until thickens, stirring 
constantly. Mrs. Samuel A. Ellis. 



12 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



THE FOOTHILL INN 



WILL OPEN FOR THE 
SEASON OF 1909-10 



AS A 



First-Class Tourist Hotel 



SEVERAL ROOMS EN SUITE WITH BATH 

STEAM HEAT, TELEPHONES AND ELECTRIC LIGHTS 

IN EVERY ROOM 



A Cuisine which Will Satisfy the 
Most Exacting 



ROOMS WITH PRIVATE BATH - - -$3.00 per day 
ROOMS WITH USE OF PUBLIC BATH $2 to $2.50 per day 

SPECIAL RATES BY WEEK, OR FOR Two IN ROOM 



Illustrated Booklet Free on Application to Manager 

AZUSA HOTEL COMPANY 

GEO. F. TILTON, Manager 

AZUSA, CALIFORNIA 



Guests from out of town can arrange for reservations at the office 

of Tilton's Trolley Trip, rear of Waiting Room, Pici6c 

Electric Bldg, cor. 6th and Main, Los Angeles, Cal. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. I 3 



IM 



CUSK-A-LA-CREME. 

Put 1 pint milk in double boiler; add small bay leaf, sprig 
of parsley, little celery seed, tiny slice of onion and a littla 
mace if desired. Scald. Rub 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour together. Stir into hot milk and add a 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and the beaten yolk of 2 
eggs. Pick apart 2 cups of cold (cooked) fish and put a 
layer of the sauce in the bottom of a baking dish, then a 
layer of fish, etc., having the last layer sauce. Sprinkle with 
bread crumbs. Bake 10 to 15 minutes or until brown. 

Jennie Baker. 
FISH CHOPS. 

Boil 3 pounds fish, bone and chop fine. Fry a teaspoon of 
chopped onion and l /2 cup of butter until brown. Add 1 table- 
spoonful of flour to 1 pint of milk and put into onion and 
butter and boil until thick. Then mix with the fish, season, 
and when cool mold into chops. Dip into yolk of egg and 
bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. R. H. 

ESCALLOPED SALMON. 

Take contents of a pint of canned salmon. Remove all 
bits of skin and bone and drain off all fluid, and mince the fish 
fine. For a white sauce, boil a pint of milk and thicken with 
2 tablespoons corn starch, adding two of butter, with white 
pepper and salt to taste. Prepare 1 pint of bread crumbs 
finely powdered. Put a thin layer of crumbs on bottom of 
dish, then a layer of minced fish, then a layer of white sauce 
until all is used, ending with crumbs on top. Bake till crumbs 
are a fine brown. Mrs. T. F. Heth. 

CREAMED SALMON. 

Blend 2 tablespoons of flour and same of butter do not 
brown. Add 1 pint of hot cream and milk ; when cooked add ^4 
teaspoon white pepper, 1 teaspoon salt, dash of cayenne, tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, then mix carefully with can of salmon 
which has been somewhat broken. Serve with a border of 
mashed potatoes. Mrs. Leroy Calvert. 

SALMON LOAF. 

2 cans salmon, 4 eggs, 2-3 cup bread crumbs, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter, % teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful minced 
parsley, a dash of red pepper. Put salmon and butter in an 
earthen dish and with a spoon make into a smooth paste. 



14 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

Beat eggs light and put bread crumbs, salt and pepper into 
them. Beat well together, then add to salmon and steam 1 
hour. Serve hot with following dressing: 

One eup milk, the salmon liquor, tablespoonful corn starch, 
1 egg (may be omitted), pinch of rnace, 1 tablespoon butter, 
pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. Let milk 
come to a boil, add cornstarch, let thicken, add butter, salt, 
mace and sprinkling of red pepper. Add egg well beaten. 
Cook 1 minute. When all done, add liquor from salmon and 
Worcestershire sauce. Pour dressing over loaf and serve hot. 

Miss Jean McNair. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup bread crumbs, 
3 eggs (well beaten), salt and pepper. Bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Geo. Wright. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One teacup milk (sweet), 2 tablespoons flour, 1 tablespoon 
butter. 1 tablespoon parsley (chopped), yolk of 1 egg. Cook 
together. When cool, add 1 can salmon, mold into shape, roll 
in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. Lawson M. La Fetra. 

TARTARIC SAUCE. 

For meat and fish. The yolks of 2 uncooked eggs, half a 
cup of olive oil, 3 tablespoons of lemon juice or vinegar, 1 of 
mustard, a teaspoon (each) of salt and onion juice, half a tea- 
spoon of pepper, and a tablespoon of chopped cucumber pick- 
les. Beat the eggs and oil together with the seasoning like 
Mayonnaise dressing, then add the pickles. 

Mrs. James J. Ayers. 



Real Estate and Insurance 



I write Fire, Life, Accident, Plate Glass and Automobile Insurance. 
I write Insurance for the strongest companies in the world. It will 
pay you to see me before taking out any kind of insurance. 
Remember the place 

71 6 AZUSA AVENUE AZUSA, CALIF. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 15 



BREADS WITH YEAST 



BREAD. 

Take 3 cupfuls of sweet milk, 3 tablespooufc'uls of sugar, 
3 teaspoonfuls of salt, a piece of butter size of an egg. To this 
add 3 cups of boiling water. When this is about cool dissolve 
1 cake of compressed yeast, then stiffen with flour and knead 
on bread board about 10 minutes, cover and set aside to raise. 
When light it is ready to make into loaves. Let raise again 
until about double the size, then bake an hour. If this is 
mixed in the evening it will be ready to make into loaves 
early in the morning. This will make about 4 loaves. 

Mrs. H. C. Bowers. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

At night boil half pint of new milk. Thicken with corn 
meal, set in a warm place to lighten. In the morning take 
half pint sweet milk, scald with hot water, about 1 pint, put 
in tablespoon sugar, soda, about sixe of a pea, some salt, stir 
flour into this to make a stiff batter. When cool enough not to 
Tdll the yeast, add cornmeal. Beat well. Have this in a half 
gallon jar. Set in quite warm water and it will soon be up. 
Use 3 sifters of flour, add a little more salt and lard about size 
of a walnut. This will make 2 loaves. Work about 5 minutes. 
Put in greased pans, let rise and bake. 

Mrs. H. E. Bierbower. 

ROLLED OAT BREAD 

Add 2 cupfuls boiling water to 1 cup rolled oa*s, let 
stand one hour; ^ cup molasses, % tablespoon salt, ^ yeast 
cake dissolved in % cupful of lukewarm water, 4^2 cups flour. 
Let rise, beat thoroughly, turn in buttered pans, let rise again 
and bake. Mary E, Thampson. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

One large cup of oatmeal scalded with enough hot water 
to thoroughly wet it and cooked 15 minutes in a double boiler, 
1-3 cup of molasses, and 1 cup of warm water. Stir in enough 
flour to make it as stiff as you can stir it, then add % cup of 
yeast. Let stand over night. Next morning, knead it down 
with a spoon, and put it in pans. Let rise. Bake slowly oyer 
1 hour. Mrs. George Mathews. 

MUSH BISCUIT. 

One quart cornmeal mush, % cup lard, 1 tablespoon salt, 
% cup sugar. Mix lard and sugar in the hot mush. When 



16 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



cool ndd 1 yeast cake and flour to make stiff dough. Set to rise. 
When light knead in all the flour it will take and let stand 
iiniil ready for use. It will keep several days in ice box. 
Make into biscuits and let rise. Mrs. Geo. Dunham. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Two quarts of flour, 1 pint milk (measure after scalding), 
1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 teaspoonful home-made yeast, butter 
size of an egg, a little salt. Make a hole in the flour, put 
ingredients in in the following order;: sugar, butter, milk, and 
yeast. Do not stir after putting together. Arrange in the 
evening, set in cool place until next morning, when mix .to- 
gether, knead fifteen minutes, return to cool place until light, 
bake 15 minutes. Mrs. E. S. Chase. 

TEA ROLLS. 

One teacup good bread sponge, 1 pint sweet milk, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, 1 tablespoon lard, 1 teaspoon salt. Let milk scald 
not boil; add lard to hot milk. When milk is cool add 
other ingredients. Mix not quite as stiff as bread and let rise. 
When light roll l /2 inch thick; cut with biscuit cutter; spread 
butter over one-half; fold over and press down. Let rise and 
bake in quick oven. Mrs. F. A. Carpenter. 



A***** 

AZUSA ICE 



**" 




Ice at 725 N. Soldano Ave. 
Distilled Water 40c per Bottle 

Conwell Smitfy, Prop. Phone ins 



'A WOMAN'S 'djJB. 



17 



MEAT RELISHES. 

Roast pork or roast goose apple sauce. 
f . Roast beef catsup or horseradish. 
' Roast veal Tomato or mushroom sauce. 
. Roast mutton currant jelly. 

Roast lamb mint sauce. 

Roast turkey cranberry sauce. 

Boiled turkey oyster sauce. 

Venison or wild duck black currant jelly. 

Broiled mackerel stewed gooseberries. 

Fresh salmon green peas with cream sauce. 



STEWED CHICKEN. 

Joint a fowl A fat hen is the best. Put in stew pan, salt 
and cover with water ; when the water boils skim, and add the 
juice of a lemon. Cook until tender; brown it in its own fat, 
or if there is not enough, add butter. When nicely brown take 
it up and to the brown fat add a can of mushrooms, the liver 
of the chicken mashed fine, enough milk to make sufficient 
gravy; thicken with flour or corn starch. Mrs. Burdick. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Boil 4 pounds of chicken, adding while boiling 1 onion, 
12 kernels of whole pepper, salt and a little celery. "When 
tender cut up as for salad. Butter a baking dish and cover 
sides and bottom with cracker crumbs. Into this put a layer 
of chicken and a layer of mushrooms, alternating until all are 
used. Strain a cup of the water from mushroom can and thick- 
en with 3 teaspoons flour ; boil until transparent. Take 2 
cups of cream and mis with the above and pour it over the 
contents of the dish. Cover the whole with a thin layer of 
cracker crumbs, putting on bits of butter. Bake till browned. 

Mrs. H. M. Coulter. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Put a cup of cream or milk in a sauce pan, set it over the 
fire and when it boils add a lump of butter as large as an egg, 
in which has been mixed a tablespoonful of flour. Let it boil 
lip thick, remove from the fire and when cool mix into it a 
teaspoonful of salt. Vo teaspoonful pepper, a bit of minced 
onion or parsley, 1 cup of fine bread crumbs and a pint of 



J8 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

finely chopped cooked chicken. Lastly, beat 2 eggs and work 
in with the whole. Flour your hands and make into small 
rolls or cakes of any desired shape. Dip in egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in hot lard like doughnuts. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Geo R. Stewart. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Cook 1 large chicken in kettle, with 1 onion, a little sage 
and salt and pepper. When done be sure that there is about 
a pint of liquor left in kettle. Cut meat up with knife aud pack 
a layer in the dish you wish to mold it in, then put on a layer 
of bread crumbs, then 1 of chicken and the top one of bread 
crumbs. Then pour liquor over it, set it away to cool. Do 
not cover up tight nor set in ice box until entirely cold, as that 
is the cause of ptomaine poisoning. 

Mrs. M. J. Coffin. 

CHICKEN DRESSING. 

Take a small loaf of stale bread, slice and toast about one- 
half of it. Then pour a little boiling water over it, cover and 
let steam until soft. One onion fried to a light brown, 2 hard 
boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon raisins, chopped fine, ] /2 cup olives, 

1 teaspoon pepper, pinch of sage and salt. Mix well and bake 
with chicken or roast. Mrs. J. A. Arnold. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Stew slowly two chickens (cut up fine) ur\til the meat 
drops from the bone. Then take out and chop fine. Let the 
liquor boil down to a cupful. Add to it butter the size of an 
egg, a teaspoon of pepper, and a be&ten egg. Stir through 
the meat. Slice a hard-boiled egg, lay in your mold and 
.press in your meat. Garnish with celery. Mrs. J. C. Wright. 

MOCK CHICKEN. 

Get a veal shank and stew until' well done/seasoning to 
taste. Take from the bone in chunks, roll in egg, then in 
crumbs and fry brown in butter like chicken. Remove from 
skillet, add 1 cup of the broth and 1 cup milk, season and 
thicken for a gravy. To be poured over meat "or served sepa- 
Tately. The broth with rice makes a delicious soup. 

BREAST OF MUTTON. 

Choose a small breast of mutton or lamb. Place in a kettle 
with boiling water to cover. Add 1 carrot, 1 small potato, 

2 or 3 stalks of celery and V 2 cup of pearl barley which has 
soaked 1 hour. After bringing to the boiling point, simmer 
from 2 to 3 hours. Remove the shoulder from the water, slip 
out the bones and press the meat between 2 granite iron pie 
pans. The next day serve the meat sliced cold, or cover with 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. I9_ 

a well seasoned bread stuffing and bake in the oven. After 
removing the fat from the broth, serve next day as Scotch 
broth. Clydia A. Rice. 

BONELESS BIRDS. 

Cut steak in round pieces; make a dressing as for poultry, 
placing a portion between 2 slices of steak; fasten together 
with wooden tooth picks. Season with salt and pepper ; lay a 
piece of salt pork on each one and bake a rich brown. 

-Mrs. C. H. Lee. 

KENTUCKY BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a piece of nice, fresh sirloin, chop (not pound) with a 
hatchet, dip in well-beaten egg, roll in pulverized crackers 
and fry until almost done, having seasoned in the meanwhile. 
When a rich brown, pour hot water over it until almost 
covered, cover quickly and let simmer a half hour. 

Mrs. Leroy Calvert. 

BOILED AND BAKED HAM. 

Soak a ham over night, then put in cold water and boil ^4 
hour for every pound of ham. Take out of water and skin. 
Cover with brown sugar and stick cloves over it. Put two 
cups of water and one cup of vinegar into dripping pan 
with a piece of butter rubbed in flour. Bake one hour, basting 
constantly. Selected. 

VEAL CRQQUETTES. 

Mince a coffee cup of veal in a chopping bowl, add pepper 
and salt, let a pint of milk or cream come to the boiling point, 
then add a tablespoon of cold butter, then add the above 
mixture. Beat 2 eggs and mix with 1 teaspoonful corn starch 
or flour and add to the rest. Cook it all about 10 minutes, 
stirring with care ; remove it from the fire, spread on a platter, 
roll into balls and when cool flatten. Dip in egg, then in bread 
crumbs. Pry in wire basket in hot lard. 

Mrs. E. C. Thomas. 

CREAMED VEAL. 

Three pounds of veal, boiled and chopped fine, 1 can 
mushrooms, drained and chopped. For sauce take 1 quart 
hot milk, four tablespoons butter and four tablespoons flour 
rubbed together and added to hot milk. Stir until thick. 
Mix all together and season to taste. Place in a pan with bread 
crumbs on top and bake l / 2 hour. This amount makes about 
3 quarts. Mrs. W. J. Cox. 

STEWED FRESH TONGUE. 

Soak the tongue in cold water 1 hour, boil 3 hours and set 
one side till cold. Then put it into a stew pan and cover 
with stoek. Add salt to taste, a dash of cayenne pepper, 



20 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

1 dozen cloves, 1 small turnip, 1 small onion, Vi> head of 
celery. The vegetables must all be chopped very fine. Stew 
gently an hour and a half, take out the tongue and add to the 
gravy 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 3 of tomato catsup and 
1 of Worcestershire sauce. Put two ounces of butter into 2 
tablespoons of flour and mix it also with the gravy, letting it 
boil until smooth. Put in the tongue again until thoroughly 
hot. Dish and pour the sauce over. It must be served very 
Tiot. This, though troublesome, will be found a delicious dish. 

Mrs. J. J. Ayres. 

MEAT BALLS (ALBONDIGOS). 

Take fresh, lean meat and grind as fine as possible. While 
grinding add a little garlic, enough to flavor. Then chop 
onions, green peppers and tomatoes and a pinch of mint. Then 
mix vegetables and ground meat and a tablespoonful of flour. 
Also add a tablespoonful of lard. Mix it into a thick hash. 
Then take a tablespoonful lard and melt in a stew pan and 
partly fry some onions and tomatoes. Then add enough water 
to more than cover the meat balls. While the water is boiling 
work this ground meat into balls the size of a walnut and drop 
in the boiling water. Boil for 20 minutes and serve. 

Mrs. Dalton, Sr. 
RABBIT PIE. 

Two young rabbits, 3 thin slices bacon, i/o bay leaf. Dis- 
joint rabbits, boil with bacon slices cut in small pieces and 
bay leaf until meat is very tender. Add butter size of walnut, 
4 medium-sized potatoes cut in inch cubes and 4 young green 
onions, just the white part. Boil 5 minutes. Thicken gravy, 
pour in bake dish, cover top with good biscuit dough rolled */> 
inch thick, bake a nice brown and serve. 

Mrs. Mary E Thompson. 

VIRGINIA VENISON PATTY. 

Take 4 pounds of venison, remove the fat and cut in 
strips a couple of inches long. Put in a kettle with a couple of 
strips of bacon, 2 cloves of garlic (or a couple of small 
onions), a blade of mace, 4 cloves, a few kernels of allspice, 
a little parsley and pepper tied in a cloth. Pour over all a 
quart of boiling water and boil until tender. Make a rich 
paste. Line the sides of a milk pan (not -the bottom), put 
in the venison and to the liquor add 1 cup of currant jelly, a 
couple of tablespoons of butter cut in small pieces, salt and 
pepper. Dredge with flour and cover with crust, bake a 
couple of hours. A small teacup inverted and placed in the 
center of the pan before the meat is put in will keep the crust 
from falling into the liquor and becoming soaked. This is well 
to do in all meat pies. Mrs. James J. Ayres. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB.. 2I_ 

LUNCHEON .DISH. 

. Cut left-overs of meat sufficient to fill baking dish into 
rather large cubes. Put into frying .pan with sliced onion 
and a quart of tomatoes. Season with salt and chili powder. 
Add either water or gravy and simmer 2 or 3 nours, or until the 
meat is thoroughly seasoned. Place mixture in a baking dish 
and cover with a batter made of < corn meal. Bake until crust 
is done. Called tamale pie. Mrs. J. T. Lindley. 

VEAL GOWLASH. ' 

Take 4 or 5 pounds of the hind quarter of veal, trim off" 
all fat, cut in pieces 4 or 5 inches square, roll in paprika. Take 
bacon, not too fat, and slice thin. Put a kettle on stove have 
hot. Put layer of bacon, then layer of onions sliced fine, then 
layer of veal, then layer of bacon, onions, veal, until all are 
used, with onion on top. Cover close, set on back of stove. 
Cook gently until done, from 3 to 4 hours. Take out veal, 
throw away all onion and bacon, put veal back in pot. Pour 
1 pint good cream on veal, let stand a few minutes on back of 
stove, serve with egg dumplings. 

EGG DUMPLINGS. 

Yolks of 5 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
flour to stiffen and roll out. Cut in squares, drop in boiling 
water, cook until done. With consomme, light dessert, cheese 
and crackers, a green salad, black coffee, it is a complete meal. 

Mary E. Thompson. 

GEFUELLTES KRAUT (FILLED CABBAGE); 

Boil 1 large head of cabbage in salt water one-half hour. 
10 cents each of pork and beef (round steak) ground. Season 
with salt and pepper. Take 1 tablespoonful meat and roll 
in 1 large or 2 small cabbage leaves. Tie with thread. Cut 
3 or 4 slices fat bacon (cut in small pieces), fry out in pan. 
Put in rolls of cabbage and meat. Fry quickly to make brown, 
then put in sauce pan 1 medium-sized onion cut in small 
pieces, % cup tomato catsup, 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire 
sauce. Add bacon and rolls of cabbage and meat. Cover and 
let simmer about 1^/2 hours. Add enough boiling water to make 
gravy. Thicken with flour. Take off strings before serving. 

Mrs. J. Brunjes. 

TONGUE CHEESE. 

One beef's tongue, 2 calves' livers, 3 pounds salt pork, boil 
until well done. Mince very fine. Season to taste (with 
spice if desired). Press in a pan or mold until cold, .then it is- 
ready to slice and serve. Makes a delicious cold dish for lunch. 

Mrs. A. A. Dodsworth. 



22 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

BOBOTEB. 

One pint cold cooked moat chopped fine, */k small onion, 
2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup of milk, 2 ounces of bread. 3 eggs, 
1 teaspoon curry powder. Put butter in frying pan, slice into 
it the onion and fry brown. Add bread (crumbed) and 
milk. Take from fire and let stand 10 minutes. Add meat, 
curry and well-beaten eggs to ingredients in frying pan. Mix 
well together. Rub a deep pie dish with butter and juice of 
a lemon. Put mixture into this and bake in a moderate oven 
about 20 minutes. S-r\e \vith boiled rice in a separate dish. 

Mrs. McNair. 
ESDALLOPED HAM. 

Fifteen cents cold boiled ham, 3 hard-boiled eggs, parsley, 
and 1 pint of cream sauce. Chop ham and white of eggs. 
Mash the yolks. Put alternate layers of ham. white of eggs, 
parsley, yolks and sauce. On top put bread crumbs and 
dots of butter. Bake in oven 20 or 30 minutes. Salmon 
may be used instead of ham. Mrs. A. M. Brown. 

BAKED HAMBURG STEAK. 

Finely chop IVk pounds of raw fresh meat ; add 2 eupfuls of 
bread soaked in milk, 1 small minced onion, salt, pepper and 
ginger to taste, and 2 eggs and roll the mass into a square. 
Boil 4 eggs until hard, arrange them end to end across the 
middle of the meat and roll the latter about them. Place the 
roll in a baking pan, pour over it a sauce composed of tomatoes, 
onions, a large piece of butter and a little water, and bake, 
basting frequently. Slice the roll crosswise for serving. 

Mrs. F. L. Clark. 

PAN TAMALES. 

1 Lean beef and chicken or pork and veal, l 1 /^ pounds 
each. 2 Corn meal mush, not too thick, iy 2 quarts. 3 
Tomatoes, 2-3 quart (heated and seasoned). 4 Raisins and 
olives, 1 pint each. 5 Salt, cayenne pepper, paprika, to 
taste. Cook meat to pieces in plenty of liquor. Butter baking 
dish. First, a thin layer of mush, then meat (small pieces), 
a sprinkle of olives and raisins, salt, pepper and tomatoes. 
Again a layer of mush, meat, etc. Cover with a thin layer of 
mush and pour over it all the meat liquor with butter (if the 
meat is lean). Ready for oven. Bake 2y hours, slowly. 
Serve from baking dish, with butter on top. 

Mrs. J. R. Eldred. 

BEEF LOAF. 

One pound beef chopped finely and 1 pound sausage, cupful 
of bread crumbs, 2 eggs. Grease pan and form into a loaf. 
Bake half an hour. Mrs. F. L. Clark. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 23_ 

BEEF LOAF. 

Four pounds lean beef chopped fine, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoons butter, ] /2 cup bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon pepper, 
J tablespoon salt. Shape in loaves and bake. 

.Mrs. Geo. R. Stewart. 

SPICED TONGUE. 

Cover tongue with water in which has been placed 1 teacup- 
salt, 3 or 4 bay leaves, 1 tablespoonful of cloves ground and 
tied in cloth, a small pod red pepper and small amount of black 
pepper. Keep well covered with water and boil till easily 
pierced with fork. When done, remove, peel off skin and' 
place in skillet with half cup vinegar, tablespoonful sugar 
and y^ teaspoonful ground allspice. Turn about and cook very 
slowly until almost dry. Remove to platter and set away. 
Slice and serve with tomato aspic made as follows: Strain 
through fine wire (milk strainer) 1 3-pound can of tomatoes, 
passing through as much of the pulp as will pass. Put into 
this the juice of two large lemons, 1 whole onion 2 or 3 bay 
leaves, teaspoonful whole cloves and 1/2 salt spoonful white 
pepper. Cook 15 minutes. Soak 2 tablespoonfuls of gelatine 
in cold water enough to cover it for half hour and dissolve in 
half cup hot water. Pour into tomato juice, strain once more 
and set on ice. Mrs. L. B. Shook. 

PAN TAMALES. 

Take 2 dozen ripe peppers, wash, cut out seeds and veins, 
put in pan on the stove, cover with water. When cooked soft, 
squeeze out skins and strain. Put in pan on stove, add a little 
more water, pinch of salt and thicken with a little flour. When 
done set aside. Take 10 cents worth boiling beef. Boil until 
very tender. Take broth, thicken with cornmeal until as stiff 
as can stir. Take this dough and put in skillet with little 
beef fat or cottolene and stir until grease is thoroughly through. 
Out meat in small pieces, take a deep pan, put layer of meat, 
.3. few olives and raisins, pour over a little chili sauce, then a 
foyer of cornmeal. then another layer of meat, raisins, chili 
, auce; top off with layer of cornmeal, well covered with sauce. 
Bake % of an hour. Mrs. 0. F. Wright. 

CABNE CON CHILI. 

To prepare chile clean them thoroughly, taking seeds and 
stumps away. Parboil (add salt) until soft. Grind on a me- 
tate (buck board) or grinding machine. Strain through a fine 
sieve, using enough of same broth in which you have boiled 
meat to make a thick gravy. Then brown one tablespoon of 
flour in about 4 tablespoons of lard. Add chili gravy to 
the browned flour and cook until thick. At this time you 
shoild have your meat ready so you can put the meat in* 



24 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

the chile gravy. To prepare the meat cut it in small pieces 
and boil in water with a little salt and enough mashed garlic 
to flavor. Strain meat and add chili gravy to it and cook for 
a few minutes. You might put a little Spanish sage (oregano) 
in your chili while you are grinding it if you like the Havor. 
Pretty good dope. Mrs. Dalton. Sr. 

MINT JELLY OE, ROAST LAMB. 

One cup of vinegar and i^ cup sugar boiled until sugar is. 

dissolved. Add 1 teaspoon gelatine softened in cold wateiv. 

, Season with pepper and salt and add 1 cup chopped mint 

leaves. Remove from fire, strain and add a few -drops of green 

vegetable coloring. Mold. Mrs. W. J. Cox. 

SPICED PORK. 

Place in kettle of boiling water sufficient to cover well 3 
pounds of fresh pork, 2 tablespoons salt, dash of cayenne. 
3 large bay leaves, 1 tablespoon ground cloves tied in cloth,, 
and black pepper to taste. Boil hard 15 minutes, then turn gas 
down to simmering point. Cook till tender and water very 
low. Mrs. L. B. Shook. 

BRUNSWICK STEW (Southern Dish). 

v . One chicken (cut as fcr stew), 1 can toma oes (fresh if in 
season), 1 can corn, iy 2 pints lima beans. 1 onion. 3 sliced' 
potatoes, 1 tablespoon butier. Salt and pepper 10 suit laste. 
Cook beans and chicken until tender before adding he other in- 
gredients. Dried beai:s can be used, though ihey require 
more cooking. Mrs. Atkinson. 

CHIPPED BEEF WITH CHEESE. 

Half pound dried beef. Put a tablespoonful of butter in 
spider; when hot put in the beef; stir until hot and add cup 
of sweet milk ; stir in 1 cup of grated cheese and 1 tablespoon 
of flour, wet in water. Mrs. J. T. Lindley. ' 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds veal and % pound fresh pork, chopped very 
fine and season with salt and pepper. Add V 2 small onion 
and */2 pound crackers, rolled fin<\ Mix all with 3 eggs and 
% cup cream. "When mixed, roll into a loaf, then mo-isten 
with beaten egg and roll in -cracker crumbs. Bake about 1^. 
hours. This will serve 20 persons. Mrs. Rodgers. 

HAMBURG LOAF. 

Two pounds Hamburg steak, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, butter- 
size of an egg, chili to taste. Make into a loaf and pour over 
1 can of seasoned tomatoes. Bake % of an hour. Take out 
loaf, thicken gravy and pour over the meat. 

Mrs. W. R. Powell. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 25 

BOILED MEAT BALLS. 

Take a good-sized piece of round steak, nut it in pieces anjd 
grind together with a pige of suet and part of an. onion. AcfcJ 
.salt, pepper and 1 egg and a piece of well-soaked brea^- 
Make into a firm ball.^^Have enough -\vater in the pot to con- 
pletely cover the meat..5J(^fl. L (j t the water come to a boil and 
then put in the meat. Let boil until nil the water is gone but 
a little to make a gravy, which may be thickened if desired. 

Mrs. Katz. 
HAMBURG PATTIES. 

Have V:: pound round steak chopped up, or chop it MI home, 
(never buy the Hamburg steak), and mix in 2 slices dry bread 
that have been soaked a minute or two. Put in salt and level 
spoon of chili powder. Roll with the hands in nice little round 
shapes. Roll in flour and fry in suet fat. You don't need 
much fat. If seasoned right, you will like these. 

Mrs. :\i. J. Coffin. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

Yolks of 2 eggs beaten; add 1 gill salad oil. 1 teaspoon 
vinegar. 1 teaspoon" mustard, tablespoon chopped gherkins, 
pepper, salt. Serve, with fish or cold meats 

Mrs. AY. R. Powell. 

Scientific Fireless Cooker Recipe for 
BEEF POT ROAST. 

Sprinkle roast with flour. Heat some suet in frying pan 
and add slice or two of onion if liked. Place roast in frying 
pan and brown on all sides, being carefufcanot to pierce fleshy 
part of roast. Place meat in kettle and add two cups of hot 
water to frying pan, simmer for a few minutes and ponr 
water over roast. Add one tablespoonful of salt and enough 
more boiling water to' almost cover roast. Allow to boil for 
30 minutes and place in cooker for 6 or 8 hours, according to 
size of roast. Mrs. Leroy Calvert. 

PICKLED MEAT. 

Place a piece of meat (loin roast is best) into a liquor maile 
of vinegar seasoned with salt, whole pepper, whole elov< s, 
sliced onions and bay leaves. Leave this for 3 or 4 days. 
When ready to use, take out of pick'"-. In-own on both sides in 
butter, pour liquor over it and boil slowly until tender. Serve 
with the gravy. A little sugar may he added. Yeal is espec- 
ially nice thus served, with noodles prepared as follows: Boil 
the noodles in salted water, drain and pour over them a dress- 
ing made of rolled bread crumbs browned in butter. 

Mrs. Samuel A. Ellis. 



26 



HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



At All First Class Groceries 




Sold Under Guarantee of Absolute Satisfaction 

Not Advertised on Billboards 



Monrovia 

Steam 

Laundry 



Has an up-to-date plant in a fire-proof buii'iing. Makes a 
specialty of fine silks and woolen goods. Hfes a dry-cleaning 
and pressing department. 

Al] work guaranteed. 

Monrovia Steam Laundry 

Home 'Phone 87 MONROVIA, CAL. 



r~ 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 27 



VEGETABLES 



VEGETABLES AT THEIR BEST. 

To have good, fresh vegetables is a happiness; but to 
know how to cook them is a fine art. The lack of knowledge 
in this behalf is lamentable. 

All green vegetables should be dropped into water which 
has been salted and is just beginning to boil. Use a table- 
spoon of salt to 2 quarts water. If the water boils a long 
time before the vegetables iare put in it loses its gases and the 
mineral ingredients are deposited on the sides and bottom of 
the kettle, so that the water is flat and tasteless. The vege- 
tables will not look green or have a fine flavor. 

Vegetables should not be overgrown to be at their best. 
To be properly .enjoyed, vegetables should be eaten when 
quite young and before they have attained gigantic growth. 
Young and green vegetables should never be cooked in a 
tinned saucepan, as this will inevitably spoil the color; but 
if they are cooked uncovered, with plenty of boiling water, 
there should be no difficulty about this. 

In salting the water, from one-half ounce to one ounce of 
salt should be allowed to the gallon of water, and in case of 
peas and green vegetables one-third this amount of sugar 
should be added, as this draws out the flavor. 

In cooking cabbages, greens, etc., the more water there 
is the less will be the very disagreeable odor, inseparable in 
most people 's minds with the cooking of greens, whilst another 
remedy for this is to put a piece of bread tied up in a muslin 
bag and boil it with the cabbage, removing it at the end of 
15 minutes and burn it. When the cabbage is cocked unless 
the water is to be used as a foundation for vegetable soups, 
it should be poured away at once. 

Then, again, all vegetables that have a bitter flavor, such 
as turnip tops, endive, cabbage or dandelion, should be first 
blanched. To do this, put the vegetables on in cold water, 
bring this absolutely to the boil, then pour off and cover the 
vegetables with fresh, absolutely boiling water. Or, if pre- 
ferred, when half cooked the water may be strained off the 
vegetables. 

All root vegetables when young merely require to be well 
scrubbed, and then rinsed in clean water. 



28 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

STUFFED BELL PEPPERS. 

Take 12 large peppers, cut off stem ends, saving ends to be 
replaced when peppers are stuffed, remove all seeds, saving 
seeds of 4. For the stuffing use 1 loaf of bVead, removing 
crust, cut in dice-like pieces and moisten with cold water. 
Mix this willi :i eggs, well beaten. 2 tablespoons butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. Chop 2 onions fine. Avith little parsley and 
the seeds of ih<- 4 peppers, the white meat of one cooked' 
chick. 11. chopped fine. Pare and chop fine 2 medium-sized 
tomatoes. (5 ears of corn cut from cob. then mix all ingredients 
together thoroughly. Then stuff the peppers and put in each 
4 olives, then place the top of the peppers on again and tie 
on with iwine. place them in a covered dish well greased 
and bake for 1 hour, or until peppers are well done. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Chas. Crawford. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Select peppers of uniform size. Cut off stem end and re- 
move seeds. Parboil 10 minutes, then fill with equal parts 
of ground meat and tomatoes. Flavor with salt, butter and 
onion juice. Place in baking dish with water V 2 inch deep 
and bake 30 minutes. Mrs. Helen Mitchell. 

STUFFED BELL PEPPERS. 

Into a large sam-epan put a tablespoonful of butter and 
fry 1 small onion. Add 2 pounds of ground meat. We like- 
1 pound of beef mixed with a half pound each' of pork and 
mutton. Stir well until a little brown. Season wi r h a cup of 
tomatoes, a teaspoonful of celery seed and salt u> taste. 
Add a large cup of bread crumbs or cooked rice. Pour in 
enough hot water to make quite moist and let simmer until 
the peppers are prepared. Prepare 1 dozen large bell peppers 
by cleaning and cutting off the point for a lid. Remove the 
seeds and veins with a sharp silver spoon. Put the meat in 
and bake until the peppers are tender. Remove the lid for the 
meat to brown awhile just before serving. 

Mrs. G. W. Knight. 

BAKED STUFFED POTATOES. 

Take nice smooth potatoes and bake done. Take them 
from the oven and split each potato in half. Scrape out the 
potato, season with salt, pepper, butter and cream. Whip 
until light. Put this back into potato shells, put bits of butter 
on top and put into the oven until heated through. Serve hot. 

Mrs. C. V. Cain. 

RICE BALLS. 

One cup cold meat, 1 teacupful of rice, fresh or canned 
tomatoes to equal 1 quart, onion the size of an ordinary 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 29 

walnut, 1 bay leaf. 1 whole clove, 1 dried chili pepper, *. 
teaspoon of celery seed. After washing the rice 
thoroughly put it to cook in 2 quarts of cold Avater. 
Do not cook too fast. When nearly all the water is taken up, 
empty into a colander and wash by letting water run over and 
through the rice. Cook the onion first, to be sure it is soft. 
Then add the spices and tomatoes. Cook until all are per- 
fectly done, then rub through a Avire sieve. Just before 
ready to use this tomato sauce put over the fire with a little 
butter and salt to taste. Use a little corn starch or flour for 
thickening, but do not make too thick. Have squares of 
cheese cloth about 8 inches square. In the center of these 
place 1 tablespoonful of rice spread smooth. In the center of 
the rice put 1 teaspoonful of meat minced and seasoned to 
taste. Form this into a round ball by drawing the corners 
and sides of the cloth together. "Wrap a string around the 
loose ends of the cloth (it is not necessary to tie). Put in hot 
water and boil half an hour or more. When the rice balls 
and tomato sauce are ready pour the sauce into a platter 
and then remove the cloth from the balls and lay them in the 
sauce, smooth side up. Do not have the sauce deep enough 
to cover the rice, for the beauty of this dish is the white 
balls in the pink sauce. Grace M. Cook. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Select firm, ripe tomatoes and cut in thick slices. Season 
with salt, pepper and a little sugar, roll in flour and slowly fry 
brown in butter. Remove the slices to a hot platter, pour a 
cup of cream or rich milk into the frying pan and boil until it 
thickens. Pour over tomatoes. Mrs. C. V. Cain. 

ESCALLOPED CELERY AND OYSTERS. 

. Wash and cut in dice 1 pint of celery. Cook in boiling 
salted water until soft when pierced with a fork, then drain 
in colander. Take 1 pint of small oysters. Have ready greased 
a baking dish, put in layers alternately the celery and oysters 
with cracker crumbs between each layer and on top. Dot 
tops with bits of butter, a little salt and pepper. Pour over 
all enough milk to nearly cover and bake in oven until the milk 
is fairly well taken up and top well browned. A nice supper 
dish when no meat is to be served. A dish much served in 
hospitals. Mrs. John E.*Hill. 

POTATO PAN-CAKES. 

Grate 3 or 4 good-sized potatoes which have been pared, 
washed and wiped dry. Add a little salt, a well-beaten egg 
and some finely chopped onion. If the potatoes are watery, 
add a little flour, but if not, use the batter without. Fry in a 



JO HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

very hot, well-greased griddle until they are brown and 
crisp Mrs. Katz. 

SPANISH RICE 

One tablespoon lard or butter, 1 cup rice, 1 onion, tomato, 
pepper and salt. Let fry in lard until it begins to scorch, 
add hot water and let cook until done. Take nearly an hour 
to cook, stirring frequently. Mrs. Geo. Martens. 

CORN PUDDING, 

Grate the corn from 6 good full ears. Mix with the yolks 
of 2 eggs, well beaten, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 
tablespoon butter, a little pepper and I 1 /, pints rich milk. Beat 
the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth and add to this mixture. 
Turn into a buttered pudding dish and bake. 

Mrs. C. V. Cain. 

CORN OYSTERS, 

Grate or cut fine from the cob enough corn too make a 
pint and add to it the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
salt, pepper to taste, and whites of the two eggs, beaten stiff. 
Fry in small cakes like oysters until brown. If mixture 
proves watery, add cracker dust. Mrs. John E. Hill. 

CORN OMELET. 

Cut and scrape the pulp from boiled corn. Use */2 cup for 
each 3 eggs, salt and pepper to taste, and a little butter. 
Beat eggs separately and proceed as for plain omelet. 

Mrs. John E. Hill. 
WALNUT LOAF. 

Chopped walnut meats 1/2 cup, 1 egg, boiling water 2 cups, 
olive oil or butter ] /2 tablespoonful, bread crumbs 2 cups, salt 
to taste. Mrs. Geo. Wright. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

One cup diced boiled carrots, 1 onion, pars' '^v, 4 eggs, 
*/4 loaf of bread, salt and pepper, sweet milk. Pry a small 
onion cut fine, add a tablespoon chopped parsley and a little 
pepper. Soak the bread into some milk, squeeze out the milk, 
add it to the onion, add the carrot and a tablespoon of butter, 
cook it a moment. Beat 4 eggs, add 2 tablespoons flour wet in 
a little milk, add to the bread arid onion. Add enough milk 
to make a medium batter, put in a greased pudding dish and 
bake an hour. Other vegetables may be used instead of 
carrots. Mrs. T. W. La Fetra. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into Vt inch cubes. Put 2 table- 
spoons butter into saucepan and when melted add 1 table- 
spoon flour, y 2 pint sweet milk and stir until boiling. Take 
from the fire, add beaten yolk of 1 egg, 3 tablespoons grated 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 



cheese, ^ teaspoon salt and dash of pepper. Stir in the 
ipotatoes and turn all into a baking dish, cover with grated 
cheese and brown in hot oven. Mrs. Atkinson. 

STUFFED TOMATOES, 

Mix in chopping bowl 1 cup cooked rice, 1 cup minced meat 
or walnut meats, 1 onion, % teaspoon red pepper, 1 teaspoon 
sugar. Cut the top from 1 dozen tomatoes, remove the centers 
;and add to the mixture. Fill the tomatoes with mixture and 
place a bit of butter on each. Cover the baking dish and bake 
until tender, remove cover and brown just before serving 

Mrs. Geo. Wright. 

STUFFED CABBAGE HEAD. 

Separate the leaves of 1 cabbage carefully. Boil until 
about one-half done in salt water, drain well, then take a large 
clean napkin, lay it in a colander, place the large leaves on 
it overlapping some and meeting at the bottom, with the bottom 
of the leaf down. Chop the small leaves of the cabbaere very 
"fine. Add to this about IVj pounds of chopped meat. IVo cups 
of bread crumbs, 3 eggs, liberal piece of butter and mix well 
together. Then tie up the corners of the napkin and partly 
cover with water and boil for 2 hours. 

Mrs. Geo. Wright. 

TOMATO DUMPLINGS. 

To a can of tomatoes add piece of butter size of walnut 
and i/4 cup of sugar. When boiling hard add dumplings made 
of 1 cup sifted flour, i/2 teaspoon of baking powder, and pinch 
of salt. Wet with cold water to a stiff batter. Drop with a 
spoon into tomatoes and keep boiling rapidly. B. M. H. 

DULCE DE CAMOTE. 

No. 1. Cook sweet potatoes until soft, rnash and add an 
equal quantity of sugar. Cook without water in double 
toiler until it does not stick. 

No. 2. Cut small sweet potatoes into sticks and cook till 
tender. Pour off the water carefully not to break the pieces. 
Have ready a heavy syrup of sugar and water. Lay the sticks 
in and cook till the syrup is absorbed. Lay apart on a platter. 
If not stiff when dry like citron, repeat the process. 

Mrs. T. W. LaFetra. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Take large ripe, but firm, tomatoes, wash and slice about 
1/2 inch thick. Salt each piece and dip in a beaten egg, then 
dip in cracker crumbs. Have frying pan (with a generous 
amount of cottolene and butter or any grease you prefer) 
quite hot. then place in the tomatoes and when nicely browned, 



32 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

turn, and when both sides are browned, lift with 2 forks or 
pan-cake turner and serve. Mrs. W. J. Wade. 

POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of the same shape and size, pare them, bake 
iintil half done, put in little pans (the kind they use "to pan 
oysters") with several little fresh sausages. Finish baking. 
Serve in the pans. A luncheon dish. Mrs. Burdick. 

GERMAN SOUR CABBAGE. 

Put lard or olive oil the size of an egg in a deep pan or 
kettle and add 1/2 cup of sugar. Stir until brown over a slow 
fire. Put in a head of finely chopped cabbage and simmer 
all morning. Add a half cup of vinegar 15 minutes before 
serving. Serve hot. Mrs. G. W. Knight. 

A LUNCHEON DISH. j 

Take nice ripe peaches, brush them well, cut in halves. 
Lay the cut side down in a frying pan with a little melted 
butter. Fry until tender, put them on the platter with the 
brown side up, sprinkle with sugar. To be served with beef- 
steak and potatoes. Mrs. Burdick. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Brown finely chopped onion in fat, then add a little, flour. 
Stir well. Put in the potatoes which have been peeled and 
quartered, then cover with water, add salt and cook until 
well done. Mrs. Katz. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 cup strained 
tomatoes, 1 teaspoon salt, 14 teaspoon pepper. Melt butter 
over fire, stir in the flour. When smooth add tomatoes and 
seasoning. Cook until thick. Mrs. John E. Hill. 

WARMED UP POTATOES. 

Most housekeepers think that cold Irish potatoes are only 
good to throw into the garbage, but cut them into d;<-e.\ukl 
salt and pepper, dip them into a well beaten egg and Try 
them in a little butter or lard and serve piping hot. The}' 
are very good for lunch or any time when one 'wants sdme- 
thing hot that can be cooked in a very short time. 

Mrs. Burdick. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

Peel potatoes and boil. When done mash and season with 
butter, salt and pepper, while warm. Mold into small rolls 
and let harden, roll in beaten eggs and then in cracker mirabs 
and fry in plenty of grease. Take out on brown paper. These 
can be warmed over in oven. Mrs. E. C. Thomas. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 33_ 

SPINACH. 

Cook spinach in salted water until done, drain and press 
out all the water, chop very fine. Have ready croutons which 
have been made out of small cubes of bread fried in butter 
until they are brown and crisp, also a hard boiled egg. Put 
butter in frying pan and, if liked, brown some finely chopped 
onion. Then add spinach, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well 
in hot butter, add croutons and put in serving dish. Cover 
with slices .of the egg. Mrs. Katz. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Scoop out the inside df 10 large tomatoes and fill with the 
following: 1 cup of ground meat, 2 bell peppers ground, 1 
large onion, l 1 /^ cups bread crumbs, sprig of parsley, enough 
of the inside of tomato to moisten, salt, pepper and sage to 
taste. Fill the tomatoes and add small piece of butter in cen- 
ter of each. Place in baking pan and add a little water to 
prevent burning. Bake in moderate oven. Mrs. Mace. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

One pint mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon 
of salt, 1/4 teaspoon of pepper, 1/2 to 1 tablespoon onion juice, 
yolks of 2 eggs. Add beaten whites last and brown in oven or 
frying pan. Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Slice rather green, firm tomatoes, dip. slices in flour seasoned 
with salt and pepper and fry in butter or other frying grease. 
Afler taking them from skillet, pour into it a little milk, bring 
to boil, pour over the tomatoes. Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

TOMATOES ON HALF SHELL. 

Cut tomatoes in halves, scoop out inside and mix with 
bread crumbs, seasoned to taste. Refill, place in baking dish 
with skin side down. Bake in slow oven y? hour. Serve on 
toast if desired, making a gravy in pan in which they were 
cooked, either with beef extract or milk, and pour this over 
the tomatoes. Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

TOMATOES WITH EGGS. 

Select tomatoes of uniform size, as many as there are 
persons to serve. Scoop out a round cavil y at stem end,, 
shake in salt and pepper to taste and a little bit of butter.. 
Put in baking pan with little water and bake until nearly 
done. Take out of oven and break an egg in each small 
cavity. Return to oven and bake the eggs as long as suits, 
you, about 5 minutes for a soft egg. Mrs. John E. Hill. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Pare and ^cut up potatoes -and put in spider with 1 table- 
spoon fryings and */4 cup water. Cook until tender, theni 



_34 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

sprinkle sugar over them and let brown. After sugar is put 
on they burn very easily. Mrs. Robt. E. . Smith. 

EGG PLANT. 

Peel and slice about one-third of an inch thick. Let stand 
in salt water half an hour, then dip in beaten egg and then 
roll in cracker crumbs and fry in plenty of fat. 

Mrs. Robt. E. Smith. 

BUTTERMILK POP. 
(A Real Dutch Dish). 

Bring 1 quart fresh buttermilk to a boil, then stir in quickly 
% cup cornmeal. Let cook a few minutes. Put in small 
dishes at each plate and eat with maple syrup. It will not be 
very thick but it is good. You bet your boots this is good. 

N. A. T. 

SPANISH RICE. 

Boil y> pound of rice Until well done. Fry 12 good-sized 
onions with 2 red peppers (the long kind), 1 quart cooked 
tomatoes, 1 tablespoon each of salt and butter and a small 
portion of black pepper. Add rice and place in porcelain-lined 
dish, spreading bits of butter on top, and bake till a light 
T)rown. From Mrs. Ballard, AVashington, D. C. 

Mrs. Lawson M. La Fetra. 

CANNED CORN TIMBALES. 

One cup of corn pulp after being sifted to remove hulls. 
Add yolks of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of salt, a few grains of 
cayenne pepper, tablespoon of melted butter, 1 teaspoon sugar, 
4 rounded tablespoons of soft bread crumbs. Mix well, add 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Drop into well buttered tin molds, 
2-3 full. Place in a pan of hot water and bake 20 minutes. 
Turn out on .shallow dish. To serve with chicken.' 

Clydia A. Rice. 



TIMBALS. 

Four eggs beaten slightly, % cupful milk. Mi tefcspoon salt, 
y 8 teaspoon popper... Put. .in. butteml dishes and set in pan 
of hot water. . Bake until firm. Surround timbals on platter 
with well coqked rice and pour over all a tomato *uire. 
as follows: L>I ., tablespoons butter with .slice of onion. :i 'table- 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 



spoons flour. Stir until browned, then pour on gradually 
114 cupfuls strained tomatoes. Season to taste. 

: Mrs. AA r . A. Davis. 
ORANGE OMELET. 

Beat yolks of 6 eggs with 7 teaspoons powdered sugar. 
Whip whites to a stiff froth and pour eggs and sugar mixture 
over them. Mix lightly, and at the same time adding the 
juice and grated rind of 1 large orange. Melt tablespoonful 
of butter in pan. When hot pour in omelet and cook slowly. 
When firm and nicely browned set in hot oven two minutes 
and then fold it together and serve. Mrs. W. J. Wade. 

PICNIC EGGS. 

Cut 4 hard-boiled eggs in halves crosswise. Remove yolks, 
mash, and add 2 tablespoons grated cheese, 1 teaspoonful 
vinegar, x /4 teaspoonful mustard, and salt and cayenne pepper 
to taste. Add melted butter to make of right consistency 
to shape. Make in balls size of original yolks and refill whites. 
Wrap in paraffin paper to carry for picnic. 

-Mrs. John E. Hill. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH ONIONS. 

Fry 2 large sliced onions in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
until a rich brown, but do not -burn them. Into this break 
6 eggs and scramble. Add salt and serve at once on dainty 
slices of white bread which have been heated but not toasted 
in the oven. This is a very appetizing dish of a cool evening 
if on'e liktes onions. Mrs. Atkinson. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS. 

Into a well-buttered dish put a layer of bread crumbs, 
moisten with milk, season with salt and pepper and generous 
slices of butter. Carefully break eggs over this as many as 
required and season. Finish with layer of bread crumbs 
prepared as before. Or a can of salmon may be added before 
placing the eggs. Mrs. AV. A. Davis. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS. 

Foud hard-boiled eggs. White sauce : 1 cup milk, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, pinch of corn starch. Chop 
whites of eggs finely, stir into white sauce while still hot, 
.spread on toast. Heap on yolks pressed through rircr. 

-Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

OMELET. 

Six eggs, .2-^3 . cup sweet milk, 2 small tablespoons flour, 
salt, pepper. Beat whites separately. Add to beaten yolks 
and turn at once into hot, buttered spider. Fold over. 

Mrs. V. R. Ross. 



36 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

BEAURLGARD EGGS. 

Five eggs, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, l /2 pint of milk, butter 
equal to J / an egg, salt and pepper to taste. Boil eggs 30 
minutes, remove shells, chop whites fine. Add to the sauce 
made from milk, butter and cornstarch. Put layer of sauce on: 
toast and press yolks through a sieve over the top. 

A Philadelphia Nurse. 

FOAMING EGGS. 

Separate 2 eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, mold in a> 
saucer, make a well in the middle and drop the yolks into it 
unbroken. Steam in a pan of hot water about 8 minutes.. 

- Presbyterian Hospital Xurse. 



As pure and wholesome as California sunshine. 

L. T. CHRISTOPHER 

Ice Cream, Chocolateand 
Bon Bons 



THREE SIORES 

IN 
LOS ANGELES 



321 So. Spring 241 So. Spring 

551 So. Broadway 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 37 



Breads with Baking Powder 



CREAM BISCUITS. 

One quart flour, 1 tablespoon lard, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 pint 
with flour. Add pinch of salt. Pour into this a coffee cupful 
of sour cream with i/2 teaspoon soda. Add enough sweet milk 
to handle like any biscuits. Roll, cut and bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Robt. F. Thaxter. 

BISCUITS. 

One quart flour, 1 tablespoon lard, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 pint 
sweet milk (use cold water when milk cannot be obtained), 
3 teaspoons baking powder. Sift together flour, salt and 
baking powder, rub in the lard cold, add milk and form into 
smooth, consistent dough. Roll out dough % inch thjck, cut 
and bake in a hot oven. The softer the dough and the 
quicker into the oven the better the biscuit. 

Mrs. John E. Hill. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

Flour, 3 pounds ; lard, 7 ounces j milk, sweet, l /2 pint ; water, 
cold, l /2 pint ; salt, 1 ounce. Mix all together, work till smooth, 
roll out thin, bake in a hot oven. Miss Metcalfe. 

CREAM BISCUIT. 

To 2i/2 cups of flour add 1/2 teaspoonful of salt, 2 heaping 
teaspoonfuls of baking powde.r. ^if-t and then add 2-3 of cup 
of thick cream (if it is sour put in a piece of soda the size 
of a pea). Don't leave any sour milk with the cream, but 
put in enough sweet milk to make a rather soft dough. Do 
not knead more than is necessary to roll out. Brush them over 
with milk and bake 15 or 20 minutes. This amount will make 
13 biscuits ordinarily. Mrs. Burdick. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Sour milk, 1 pint; molasses, V-, cup; soda, 1 level teaspoon; 
salt. !/2 teaspoon; graham flour, 2 1 /. cups. Sift soda with 
flour, bake in baking powder cans 40 minutes. 

Mary E. Thompson, 

GRAHAM LOAF. 

Into 1 quart of graham flour sift 1 teaspoonful of salt and 
2 of baking powder. Put the chaff back into the flour and mix 
with a scant cup of molasses and a large cup of milk. Bake 
.about 40 minutes. Mrs. G. W. Knight. 



38 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One quart flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon sugar. Sift together, then mix in 1 tablespoon 
butter and add 1 pint cold milk in which 1 egg has been 
beaten. Cut with a hirge cutler, spread top with melted 
butter, fold half over, rub top with sweet milk and bake in 
a hot oven. Mrs. John E. Hill. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Four cups graham Hour, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, butter size of egg. Mix well. 
Add water to make stiff batter. Bake 1 hour in slow oven. 

Mrs. W. A. Davis. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Two cups milk, y 2 cup brown sugar, 4 cups graham flour, 
salt, and 2 level teaspoons baking powder. Bake in loaf, 40 
minutes. Mrs. Percy Jackson. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups corn meal, 2 cups graham flour, 1 cup white 
flour, 1 cup cooking molasses, 31/2 cups sour milk, 1 heaping 
teaspoon soda. Mix thoroughly. Fill baking powder cans 
2-3 full. Steam 2 hours. Nettie Dingman. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One and a half cups Indian meal, l 1 /^ cups rye flour, 2 
cups sour milk, y 2 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, l / 2 tea- 
spoon salt. Mix soft and steam 3 hours. This fills 3 1-pound 
baking powder cans, when done. Mrs. R. F. Thaxter. 

"HOE" CAKE. 

Sift 1 pint white corn meal -and 3 teaspoon salt, add cold 
water to make stiff batter, stir well and spread on a greased 
"hoe" or griddle, making one large round cake y 2 inch 
thick. Cook on top of range, .turn and bake on both sides. 

Mrs. C. H. Lee. 

SPONGE CORN CAKE. 

One cup flour, i/ 2 cup corn meal, 1/2 teaspoon salt. 1/2 tea- 
spoon soda, 1-3 cup of sugar, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of melted 
butter, 1 cup sour milk. Bake in ( . shallow pan or gem pans. 

';,'.'. Mrs. R. F. Thaxter. 
NUT BREAD. 

Four cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt, sifted together. Beat 2 eggs thoroughly, add 2 cups, 
sweet milk, then flour mixture, and last, large cup of walnut 
meats chopped medium size. Let rise 20 minutes and bake 
30 or 35 minutes in medium hot oven. 

Mrs. F. C. Silent 



AZUSA WQMAN'S CLUB. , 39_ 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One heaping cup each corn meal, graham and whole wheat 
flours sifted together. Beat up thoroughly with 2 cups New 
Orleans molasses, 2 cups sweet milk, 1 cup sour milk. 1 dessert 
spoon soda and 1 teaspoon salt. Fill pans or buckets % full 
and set in kettle of cold water. Let boil 4 hours, then dry off 
tops in oven and they will slip from pans perfectly. 

Mrs. Calvert. 

CORN BREAD. 

One cup corn meal. 1 cup white flour, 1 cup of milk, 1 
tablespoon of butter, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 
1 teaspoon of salt, 3 tablespoons of sugar. 

Mrs. Helen Mitchell. 

NUT BREAD. 

Four cups flour, ^ cup sugar, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup chopped nuts, 1 egg beaten added to 
! 1 /4 cups sweet milk. Mix, let stand Vi hour, then bake % 
hour. Mrs. Harry Ranev. 

NUT BREAD. 

Two cups white flour, 2 cups graham flour. 2 cups milk, 
(sweet or sour), */ cup cane syrup, 1 full teaspoon soda sifted 
with the flour, 2-3 cup of nuts, 1-3 cup of raisins. Bake in 
moderate oven. Mrs. W. P. Taylor. 

GERMAN HONEY CAKES. 

Two pounds honey, 2 pounds flour, i/4 pound butter or 
lard, grated peel of 1 lemon, ^ teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
1 teaspoonful annis seed, 1 ounce soda. Heat honey and 
butter together. Take from the fire, mix, spices and soda, 
which has been previously dissolved in a little warm water- 
together. Let cool. Then add flour little by little. If dough 
runs, add more flour till stiff enough to roll out. Bake in 
medium heated oven. Mrs. Robert Oscar. 

GERMAN POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

Take 6 good-sized potatoes, boil and grate them. Add 
1 cup of bread crumbs, ] small onion, 1 slice fat bacon, % 
grated nutmeg, salt to taste, 1 good-sized slice of bread cut 
in bits the size of a bean. Cut up the bacon the same as the 
bread and fry a light brown. Take the bacon out of the 
grease and fry the bread the same as the bacon. Put the 
grated potatoes in a deep dish, add the above ingredients. 
Last of all add 2 eggs. Mix all well together. Put the dough 
on a floured board and form into balls of m'edium size. Press 
firmly together and boil in slightly salted water. 

Mrs. Robt. Oscar. 



HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



SNOW FRITTERS. 

Six eggs. Separate. Beat '/- teaspoon salt with yolks. 
Add 1 pint of milk and flour enough to make stiff batter. Add 
beaten white of egg and fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Roht. P. Thaxter. 

FRITTERS. 

Two eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 1 cup sweet 
milk, saltspoon of salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder and flour 
enough to make a little thicker than pan-cake batter. Drop 
by spoonfuls in hot fat. Serve with maple syrup. 

Mrs. W. J. Cox. 
MUFFINS. 

Cream 1-3 cup of butter, add gradually *4 cup of sugar 
and ^4 teaspoonful of salt, 1 egg beaten light, % cup of milk, 
2 cups of flour, 2 level teaspoons baking powder. Bake in hot 
gem pans 25 minutes. Mrs. W. W. Bentley. 

PLAIN WAFFLES. 

Sift 3 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder and 1 tea- 
spoon salt, stir in IVa cups of milk, beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 
2 tablespoons melted butter and fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of eggs. Heat your waffle iron, grease both sides, put a spoon- 
ful in each section, close, turn at once. They should be an 
even brown and very crisp when done. Serve very hot with 
butter and sugar, with syrup or with fruit. 

Mrs. John E. Hill. 

AIRY WAFFLES. 

Flour, 1 quart; eggs, 3; milk, 1% pints; butter, 2 ounces; 
salt, 1/2 teaspoon; baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Rub butter in 
flour, add salt. Beat eggs till light. Mix yolks with milk. 
Add this gradually to the flour, beating well. When ready to 
bake add baking powder .and well beaten whites. 

Miss M?tcalt'e. 

OATMEAL HURRY-UPS. 

One cup dry rolled oats, 1 cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix and rub in 1 large 
tablespoon of good beef fat, lard or butter. Moisten with 
1/2 cup of sweet milk, forming a rather stiff dough, drop in 
small biscuits and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Mrs. John E. Hill. 

MUSH CAKES. 

Beat 3 eggs very light, add to the yolks MJ pint milk, 1 pint 
stiff cold mush, 1/2, pint of flour, % teaspoon salt, 1 large 
dessertspoon of melted butter or lard. Just before frying add 
the well beaten whites of the eggs. Miss Metcalfe. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 41 

POPOVERS. 

Two cups sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 
1 teaspoon melted butter. Beat eggs very light, add the milk, 
salt and butter. Add this to the flour slowly to prevent its 
being lumpy. Fill well buttered gem pans half full and bake 
in quick oven about 25 minutes. Mrs. C. H. Lee. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cup water, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, y^ level 
teaspoon salt, 1 well beaten egg, 2 cups Globe graham flour. 
Have gem pans hot and well greased. Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. J. H. Anderson. 
GLUTEN FLOUR MUFFINS. 

One egg, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon melted butter, Iy4 
cups of gluten flour, 1 teaspoon of baking powder and a pinch 
of salt. Mrs. Geo. Mathews. 

DUMPLINGS FOR STEW. 

One cup of flour, a little salt, l 1 /^ teaspoons of baking 
powder and enough sweet milk to make a stiff batter. Drop into 
the stew by the tablespooriful, cover and boil 15 minutes, never 
lifting the cover until done. Mrs. James J. Ayres. 

WAFFLES. 

Mix well 1 quart of sifted flour with 3 teaspoons of baking 
powder. Rub 1/2 cup butter in the flour; add 3 eggs beaten 
separately; add sweet milk enough to make batter. Bake in 
well greased waffle irons. Mrs. W. R. Powell. 

DUMPLINGS. 

One tablespoon melted butter, 1/2 teacup water, a pinch of 
salt, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder in a, bit of flour^ 
1 cup of flour, 1 egg. Mix butter and water and salt and flour 
to stiffen- batter. Now break in the egg and beat hard, now 
add the baking powder mixed with a bit of flour. Drop into 
the kettle with boiling soup and cook 20 minutes with closed 
cover. Mrs. T. W. La Fetra. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One cup sweet milk, 1 cup sour milk, 1 pint graham flour, 
1 cup corn meal, 1 cup molaaees, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
sour milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Add currants, raisins, 
etc., if desired, flouring well. Steam for 3 hours, then dry in 
oven 1/2 hour. Mrs V. R. Ross. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One cup rye flour, 1 cup graham flour, 1 cup corn meal, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup sour milk (sweet will do), 72 cup dark 
molasses, 6 teaspoons baking powder (whether sweet or sour 
milk). If sour, add 1/2 teaspoon soda. Flour raisins, as de- 
sired, steam 1 hour for every fraction of ciip of mixture, Dry for 
for i/o hour in oven. Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

2M~&f 




42 



HOW WE COOK IN 



Home Phone IOI5 



W. I. RURY 



City Feed and Seed Store 

*-w*r*f+**-~.r *^** ************************* *******r**-r**<^* 

Groceries, Hay, Grain, Wood and Coal 

Prompt Delivery. 
TRY HILL'S 25c COFFEE A WINNER. 



HONE PHONE 3O32 



SUNSET MAIN 91 



W. P. BARNES 



Pea I Estate = Loa ns - 1 nvestments 



AZUS3, CALirORNIA 



HOUSES FOR RENT 



ORANGE AND LEMON GROVES 



E. M. F. "3O" StudebaKer 

Automobile is the one you want 

The price is right, the car is right. We have eleven 
other Studebaker models, electrics and gas cars, to choose 
from. 

BUGGIES AND FARM IMPLEMENTS 

GARDEN HOSE AND TOOLS 

Our aim is to keep only goods that are right, at prices 
that are right. 

AZUSA IMPLEMENT COMPANY 



Phone 4 



FRKD M. SMITH, Prop 



AZUSA. 



GENERAL BLACKSMITH 

All 'Kinds of Rubber Tires Put On. 



BAND SAWING, 
DISC AND SHARE 
GRINDING 



RIDGERS, JUIvIPERS, 
ORANGE RACKS, 
ETC. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 43 



Salads and Salad Dressings 



BANANA SALAD. 

No. 1. Take 4 large, firm, but fully ripe bananas, split 
them and then cut across. Place over a very slow fire 1 table- 
spoonful of butter in skillet and as soon as just melted lay 
in the bananas. As soon as they look clear around the 
edges turn very carefully, slipping a knife lengthwise of pjece 
and holding with fork. Cook till done through, but do not 
brown. Remove piece by piece to flat dish and pour juice 
over all. Set on ice, where it will jelly. Serve on lettuce 
leaf with peanut meal sprinkled plentifully over and a delicate 
creamy mayonnaise on top. Mrs. L. B. Shook. 

No. 2. Cut raw bananas lengthwise, roll in peanut meal, 
lay on lettuce, mayonnaise on top. . Mrs. L. B. Shook. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Cut ripe, pineapple in dice. Sweeten and lay on a napkin 
to drain. .Set on ice. Just before serving add 2 apples cut 
in dice and cherries. Pour over cream salad dressing or mayon- 
aise and serve on lettuce. Mrs. R. Holmes. 

TOMATO SALAD. , 

Cut out centers of tomatoes and fill with sweetbreads 
or asparagus tips previously laid in French dressing. Put 
mayonnaise on top or in a small lettuce leaf laid at the side 
of plate. Mrs. E. V. Rice. 

GRAPE SALAD. 

Remove skin and seeds from Malaga grapes. Add an equal 
quantity of English walnut meats (broken) and half the quan- 
tity of celery (finely cut). Moisten with French dressing. 
Arrange on lettuce leaves and ' garnish with half nuts and 
candied cherries. Mrs. John E. Hill. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

One can shrimps. Wash and cut in halves. Make a dress- 
ing of 2 eggs, whites beaten first, then yolks added, 1 table- 
spoon salad oil added slowly, 1 teaspoon each salt and pepper, 
% cup vinegar, a little mustard. Stir all together on stove 
until it th'ickens. When cool pour over shrimps, to which has 
been added celery or finely cut lettuce. Mrs. E. C. Thomas. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

. . Cream 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar and butter the size of l 1 /^ 
eggs. . Add yolks of 8 eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoon salt, 6 



_44 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

tablespoonfuls lemon juice. Cook till thick and thin with 
1 cupful whipped cream. Mix with a combination of pine- 
apple, nuts, oranges, cherries and grapes and serve on lettuce. 

Mrs. P. C. Daniels. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Line the salad bowl with crisp lettuce leaves, fill the center 
with cold, cooked string beans cut into half-inch pieces, and 
turn over them a French dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Take smooth, medium-sized tomatoes. Feel and chill. 
When ready to serve place on salad plates in a nest"of lettuce 
leaves and pour over them the following dressing: One egg 
beaten thoroughly. Add 3 tablespoons sugar and beat them in, 
1 large teaspoon flour; beat it in, salt, and beat in gradually 
1/2 cup vinegar in which ^ teaspoon mustard has been dis- 
solved. Add 2 tablespoons water. Cook until it thickens. 
Chill. Mrs. C. V. Cain. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two chickens boiled, then remove skin, yolks of 8 eggs, 
1 head of celery, 4 heads of lettuce. Beat yolks very light 
first, drop oil in drop by drop until thick as you can stir it, 1 
teaspoonful of mustard mixed in juice of 2 or 3 limes or lemons, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, dust of cayenne pepper. Cut celery 
and meat fine with knife (don't chop it), then pour over 
dressing. If desired, beat whites stiff and put teaspoonful on 
each dish of salad. This will serve 24 persons. 

Mrs. James J. Ayres. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil 1 chicken tender; chop moderately fine the whites 
of 12 hard-boiled eggs and the chicken; add equal quantities 
of chopped celery and cabbage; mash the yolks fine; add two 
tablespoons butter; 2 of sugar; 1 teaspoon mustard; pepper 
and salt to taste; and lastly, i/O cup of good cider vinegar; pour 
over salad and mix thoroughly. Tf no celery at hand use 
chopped pickled cucumbers or lettuce and celery seed. This 
may be mixed 2 or 3 days before using. 

Mrs. P. A. Carpenter. 

POTATO SALAD. 

For dressing take 1 pint sour cream, 1 cup vinegar, 1 cup 
sugar, 14 teaspoon mustard, stirred in sugar, 3 eggs, well 
beaten. Prepare potatoes by boiling with skins on, peel and 
slice thin. Season highly with salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon 
celery seed, 2 or 3 small white onions sliced thin. Pour dress- 
ing over when cold and stir thoroughly with silver fork. 

Mrs. H. S. Rogers. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 45_ 

PEANUT SALAD. 

One cup ground roasted peanuts, 1 cup toasted and ground 
bread crumbs, 4 hard-boiled eggs, 2 large dill pickles, teaspoon, 
salt, !/2 teaspoon white pepper and juice of 1 lemon. Mix 
well and blend with a good cooked mayonnaise thinned with 
much cream. Mrs. L. B. Shook. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Four apples cut-in inch cubes, same amount (measure) of 
celery sliced fine. Dressing: 2 heaping tablespoons of 
sugar, 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, salt spoon of 
salt, dash black pepper, dry mustard size of pea, or 1 tea- 
spoon made mustard, tablespoon butter (level), small tea- 
spoon flour, 1 egg. Cook in double boiler, thin with sour cream 
or sweet milk. Pour dressing over apples and celery. Break 
walnut meats fine (don't chop), a few pieces of shredded green 
pepper, and skin some good muscat grapes. Serve salad on 
lettuce leaves. Sprinkle pepper, walnut meats and grapes over 
the top and serve. Mary E. Thompson. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One can cove oysters, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 6 good-sized soda 
crackers, 4 good-sized sweet pickles, lump of butter size of 
walnut, salt and pepper to taste. Chop oysters, yolks of eggs 
and pickles fine. Roll crackers fine and add with oyster liquor 
and ~y% cup of vinegar to pickles, oysters, and eggs, 2 table- 
spoons of sugar. If vinegar is very sour, add more sugar. Put 
whites of eggs through meat grinder and use with parsley to 
garnish. Miss Frances Jeffrey. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take cold chicken, only just the white part, and cut up small 
with a silver knife, walnuts and celery, all to be cut in small 
pieces with knife, and take equal parts of each. Then mix 
in the salad dressing. This is very nice. 

Mrs. M. J. Coffin. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Dressing: % cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon flour, salt and 
pepper, lump butter. Boil well, pour over a well beaten egg. 
Cut celery in small pieces, break up a few walnuts, mix to- 
gether. "Whip a half cup of cream, then pour on salad dress- 
ing. Mrs. W. J. Wade. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Eight large, boiled potatoes ; when cold slice them. Eight 
hard boiled eggs. Grate one -onion. Dressing: One large 
teacupful of vinegar, yelks of 3 well beaten eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of flour, one tablespoon- 



46 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

ful of salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 large spoonful of 
butter. Let boil and when cold add one-half cup ,of cream; 
stir well and mix your salad. It is excellent when carefully 
made. Mrs. Leroy Calvert. 

SALAD. 

One cup of bananas. 1 cup of apples, one cup of celery, one- 
half cup of broken walnut meats. Slice them all fine with a 
knife ; do not chop them in a bowl Turn the salad dressing 
on these and fold in with a wire spoon. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. Mrs. Belle Harris. 

SALAD. 

One cup of cold boiled potatoes, 1 cup of bananas, 1 cup of 
celery, y 2 cup of walnut meats. Slice them and fold the salad 
dressing in with a wire spoon. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. Belle Harris. 

SALAD. 

Tomatoes peeled and sliced and placed on lettuce leaves, 
and the salad dressing dropped on, makes a delicous s:ilad. 

Mrs. Belle Harris. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING. 

Eggs, 8; cream, 1 quart ; white pepper, 1 tablespoon; salt, 
1 tablespoon; sugar, 1 tablespoon; mustard, 2 tablespoons; 
butter, 1 cup; juice of 2 lemons; vinegar, !/> cup. " Mix 
thoroughly dry ingredients. Moisten slowly with a li'tle cream 
and well beaten eggs. Add the butter, melted; lastly '_ e-.ip 
vinegar. Put in double boiler, stirring constantly until it 
begins to thicken, like a soft custard; then remove' from stove 
quickly so that it will not curdle. When cold add the juice 
of lemons. One fourth of this recipe makes nearly one pint 
and is sufficient for ordinary use. , Mrs. H. M. Coulter. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of three eggs, 1 tablespoon of sugar, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon of flour, one teaspoon of mustard, a small spoon of salt, 
one cup of weak vinegar. Add cream when ready to use. 

Mrs. Helen Mitchell. 

SALAD DRESSING. 
A nice salad dressing that can be kept two weeks. 

Three eggs, 1 cup cider vinegar, V 2 eiip sugar, -i/ 2 cup but- 
ter, 1 teaspoon mustard (or more if desired), 1 cup rich cream. 
Stir mustard and sugar together dry, then mix all ingredients 
but the cream. Cook in doable boiler or over, hot wt'.+er till 
thickened. Let cool; put in fruit can and set away. AVlien- 
<-\er you wish to use it mix in a cup of rich sweet erearn, or 
1li-- condensed cream is nice. This,is.very .fine for a ehickeu 
salad - Mrs.M. J. Coffin. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 47 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

Beat up 2 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Add a 
piece of butter the size of half an egg, a teaspoon of mustard, 
a little pepper, and lastly a teacup of vinegar. Put all these 
ingredients into a dish over the fire and cook lite a soft cus- 
tard. Add 1/2 cup of thick cream. Mrs. George Wright. 

Ordinary cabbage salad is just twice as good if green 
pepper, finely chopped, is mixed with it. It also makes it a 
prettier salad. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 

One pint milk. Let it come to a boil, then dissolve 2 table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch in a little milk and stir into the hot 
milk. Boil until it begins to thicken. Have beaten 1 egg, 
both yolk and white, and stir into the milk while boiling hot. 
Add 1 teaspoon of butter, juice of one lemon, dash of cayenne 
pepper (no black) i/ 8 teaspoon salt, V 2 cup sugar (small 1/2 
cup), y? teaspoon mustard. Beat all together. 

Mrs. George Wright. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One-fourth of a cup of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful 
flour, one fourth teaspoonful salt, a dash of pepper and mus- 
tard. Stir together, then add one-half cup of vinegar. Cook 
this in a double boiler, or on aluminum dish. Stir Avhile it 
is cooking. When thick remove it from the fire and beat 
into it an inch and one-half cube of butter or one-fourth cup 
of olive oil. When cool beat in cream or milk enough to thin 
it., 4 Beat thoroughly with a wire spoon. This will keep for 
a week in a cool place. If, after standing, it gets too thick, 
thin with milk. Mrs. Belle Harris. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of 3 eggs, 1/2 teaspoon mustard. 2. tablespoons sugar, 
butter size of hickory nut and 1 tablespoon flour. Beat to- 
gether and add to 1 teacup weakened vinegar. Season with 
salt and cayenne. Boil till thick. 'When cool add 1/2 pint 
whipped "cream. This is a delicious dressing for fruit salads. 

R. H. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Four tablespoons sugar. 1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1 teaspoon mustard. 3 tablespoons butter, yolks of 4 eggs, 
3 1 /!' cups of milk, 1 cup vinegar.' Heat in double boiler until 
done. Mrs. W. P. Taylor. 

FREN.QH DRESSING. 

One-fourth teaspoon salt. 4 tablespyp.r^s. olive oil, \/$ tea- 
spoon while pepper, ' 1 1 /o tablespoons' v-iiiegar. Add vinegar 
last, beating hard. Mrs.' John K. Hill. 



48 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One-half cup vinegar. Fill cup with cold water, put in> 
porcelain kettle, add tablespoon salt, pinch of pepper, pinch 
of sugar while boiling. Beat 3 eggs, add one tablespoonful 
mustard (add little at a time), 1 cup cream and lastly pour the 
boiling mixture over it, return to fire, boil one minute; beat 
until like custard. Mrs. Thaxter. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of 3 eggs, ] tablespoon sugar, mustard to suit taste, 
% cup vinegar, lump of butter size of a walnut. Cook these- 
and when cool add 1 cup whipped cream. Mrs. C. H. Lee. 

EGG SALAD. 

Hard-boiled eggs, salt popper and plenty of butter. Put 
yolks through colander, chop whites well; add salt, pepper,. 
butter, and mix. Pack in tumblers. Cut in *4 inch slices, 
serve on a lettuce leaf with any desired dressing. 

Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 

Six tablespoons sugar and 3 level tablespoons butter cream- 
ed, 3 tablespoons leinon juice, yolks of 8 eggs, salt. Cook till 
thick. Thin the dressing with whipped cream when ready to 
use. Serve with any fruit. Orange, pineapple, raisins and 
nuts arc a good combination. Mrs. W. R. Powell. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Eight potatoes cut fine, 2 cups chopped cucumber, 1 onion 
chopped fine, 3 hard-boiled eggs. Cover with any boiled salad 

dressing. Mrs. W. R. Powell. 

i 

SALAD TO BE SERVED WITH MEAT COURSE. 

Prepare box of lemon Jello at night. Set on ice. When 
partly set add chopped nuts, olives and pickles. When firm, 
slice and arrange on lettuce leaves. Mrs. I. D. Roach. 



United States National Bank 

AZUSA, CAL. 

Capital $50,000 

Surplus and Profits 3,500 

J. A. GRAVES, President 
J. W. CALVERT, Vice President 
J. H. ANDERSON, Cashier 
C. L. SMITH, Assistant Cashier 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 49 



CHEESE 



CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

Make a cream sauce with 2 tablespoons of butter, 3 level 
tablespoons of corn starch and a cup of milk. Beat into this 
the yolk of an egg and season highly with red pepper or 
paprika and a little salt. Add 2 tablespoons of grated cheese 
and when melted remove from the fire and stir in 1% cups 
of cheese chopped. Cool the mixture thoroughly, shape into 
croquettes and roll in crumbs. Fry in hot fat and serve hot 
in a nest of parsley. Mrs. E. Vehslage Rice. 

WELCH RAREBIT. 

Put 4 ounces (8 tablespoons) of grated cheese, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream or milk, a piece of butter size of a walnut 
into a saucepan and boil, stirring gently until it becomes 
thick and smooth. Then add raw egg, well beaten, and a dash 
of cayenne pepper. Put pan again on fire, stirring until the 
whole is hot. Serve on squares of dry toast or crackers. Very 
nice. Mrs. Chas. Crawford. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

One cup grated cheese, whites of 4 eggs, a few drops of 
Worcestershire sauce and pinch of salt. Add a few bread 
crumbs to hold together. Roll in crumbs and fry in hot fat. 

-R. H. 

ENGLISH MONKEY. 

One cup stale bread, crumbs, */> cup cheese, cut in small 
pieces, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 egg, y 2 teaspoon salt, 
little pepper. Soak crumbs 15 minutes in milk ; melt butter 
in sauce pan; add cheese and when it has melted add soaked 
crumbs, beaten egg and seasoning. Cook 3 minutes. Spread 
on strips of toast or crackers. Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

One cup grated cheese, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup milk, ! 1 
ogg, a little butter, a pinch of salt, pepper and mustard. 
Bake 15 or 20 minutes. Mrs. W. W. Bentley. 

CHEESE BOULLETTES. 

One and one-half cups grated cheese, 1/4 teaspoon salt, 
a dash of cayenne, whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Shape in 
:small balls, roll in cracker crumbs, fry in deep, hot fat. 

Mrs. V. R. Ross. 



50 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 cup- 
milk, 1 cup grated cheese, yolks of 3 eggs, whites of 3 eggs, 
salt and pepper. Melt butter, add flour, stir well, then add all 
liquids. Cook until thick. Season, then beat in cheese. Do not 
let sauce boil after adding cheese as it will harden the cheese. 
Stir until cheese melts, remove from stove and beat in yolks. 
Beat in whites just before putting in the oven. Bake 20 A 
minutes. Mrs. Geo. Wright. 



Home Phones : Office, 28 ; Res., 3028 

FRED L. CLARK 

AZUSA 

Furniture, Mattings, Linoleums 
Art Squares and Rugs 

FUNERAL DIRECTOR AND EMBALMER 



MISS MABEL JEFFREY AZUSA. CAL. 



MILLINERY PARLOR 

Taking Orders and Remodeling a Specialty 

GOOD QUALITY GOOD STYLES 



J.R. ELDRED 

DEALER IN 

Bicycles & Sporting Goods 

ALL KINDS OF REPAIRS. ELECTRIC SUPPLIES 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 51 





^L, 

7K 


PIES 


^c 
^ 





TIME SAVING PIE CRUST. 

One good full cup of lard, cold, 3 cups (round) full of 
flour, 1 even teaspoon salt. Rub together until thoroughly 
mixed, set away in cold place till you wish to make a pie. It 
will keep any length of time, cold and dry. When you wish 
to make a pie, take 1 cup of the mixture and as little cold water 
as you can possibly get it together with, hardly more than a 
teaspoon of water. Roll out and on the top crust sift or 
sprinkle a very little of the dry mixture to make it flaky. 

Mrs. R. F. Thaxter. 

PIE CRUST. 

Two and a half cups of flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 cup lard and butter, or either one, ice-cold' 
water to mix into soft dough. Makes 2 or 3 pies. 

Ella W. Stewart. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Four tablespoons grated chocolate, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups milk, 
yolks of 3 eggs. Heat chocolate and milk together, add sugar 
and yolks of eggs beaten together to a cream. Flavor with 
vanilla. Bake with under crust. Spread meringue of beaten 
whites over the top and brown. 

-Ella W. Stewart. 

CREAM CUSTARD PIE. 

Two very full teacups milk, 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, 1 teacup of sugar, teaspoonful of vanilla- 
and yolks of 3 eggs. Mix together and pour into crusts 
that have been baked almost done. Set in oven and watch 
very closely to see that they do not get beyond the creamy 
stage before they are removed. Make meringue of the whites 
of eggs, using 1 scant tablespoonful sugar to the egg. 

-Mrs. L. B. Shook. 

BERRY CUSTARD PIE. 

Take the juice off a quart of berries and add about ^/z- 
teacup of sugar if the juice is very tart, set it on the stove and 
boil 10 minutes; let cool. Beat 2 eggs until very light and 
creamy, add a teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir the egg and berry 
juice until thoroughly mixed. Put in one crust and bake as. 
ordinary custard pie. Leona Husband. 



52 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

PEACH PIE. 

Line the pie plate with a rich crust. Peel peaches and cut 
in halves (removing stones) and place them on the crust- 
Make a paste of a piece of butter size of a walnut, */> cup sugar, 
2 tablespoons water, 1 tablespoon flour heated well together. 
Spread over the pie and bake. Mrs. W. J. Wade. 

LEMON PIE. 

Moisten a heaping tablespoon of corn starch with cold 
water, then add 1 cup boiling water. Stir over fire until it 
boils and cooks the corn starch 2 or 3 minutes. Add 1 tea- 
spoon butter, cup of sugar. Take off fire and when slightly 
cool, add an egg well beaten and the juice and grated rind of 
a lemon. Add a meringue to top. Makes one large pie. 

-Mrs. John E. Hill. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Three-fourths of a cup of white sugar, half a cup of milk, 
2 eggs, three tablespoons stewed pumpkin. Beat the yolks and 
whites of the eggs separately, adding the white lastly. Flavor 
with 1 teaspoon ginger and V-j teaspoon cinnamon. 

Mrs. P. A. Carpenter. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One and a fourth cups pumpkin, Vi> cup sugar, 2 table- 
spoons molasses, 1 beaten egg, y 2 teaspoon salt, from 3 /4 to 1 
tablespoon ginger, 1 cup rich milk. Makes one large pie. 

-Mrs. A. R. Heald. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Juice and grated rind of 2 oranges, 4 eggs. 4 tablespoons 
sugar 1 tablespoon butter. Cream butter and sugar. Add 
the beaten yolks of eggs, then the orange. Lastly beat in 
balf the whites, reserving half to put on top while baking. 

Mrs. Otanus Wright. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

One cup seeded raisins and 2 cups of cranberries cut in 
pieces. Stew together for 15 minutes or longer, then add 2 
cups white sugar. Thicken with 2 tablespoons of Hour. Add 
butter size of walnut. This will make 2 large or 3 small pies. 

-Mrs. T. F. Ileth. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two large tablespoons com starch dissolved in a little 
cold water, then stirred in a cup of boiling water. Then add 
"2 eggs beaten, 2-3 cups sugar, 1 lemon grated and juice of l'/ 2 
lemons, piece of butter the size of a walnut. Bake with one 
crust. White of 1 egg beaten for top, with tablespoon sugar. 

Mrs. Robt, E. Smith. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 53 

MOTHER'S MINCE PIE RECIPE. 

Six pounds finely minced meat (neck piece), 8 pounds- 
apples, 1 pound suet, 2 pounds raisins, 2 pounds sugar, 1 ounce 
mace, 1 ounce nutmeg, 1 ounce cinnamon and allspice, ^2 
ounce cloves, salt and pepper to season meat, 2 quarts of 
sweet cider or sweetened vinegar and water to moisten mince 
meat. Bake in puff paste crust. Mrs. S. E. McAfee. 

Mrs. J. R. Eldred's mother. 
MOCK MINCE MEAT. 

One pint water, 2-3 pint sugar, 1/4 pint vinegar (not too- 
strong), 5 large soda crackers, Vt pound raisins, cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice to suit taste, 2 large apples cut fine, piece 
of butter the size of a walnut. Boil all 15 minutes. 

Mrs. C. C. Casey. 
MINCE MEAT RECIPE. 

flakes 5 gallons. 10 pounds neck of beef (cook until ten- 
der), 2 pounds suet, 4 pounds raisins, 4 pounds currants, 2' 
pounds citron, ^ box apples (sour), i/4 gallon of syrup, 
4 pounds of brown sugar, 1/4 gallon vinegar, 1 bottle brandy, 
14 pound each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice, and four ground 
nutmegs. Chop meat, apples, suet and citron fine, and cook 
all together. Mrs. Robt. F. Thaxter. 

MINCE MEAT. 

One bowl of meat chopped fine, 1 bowl of apples chopped 
fine, Vo bowl of suet chopped fine (or butter is better still), 

1 bowl of brown sugar, ] bowl of molasses, 1 bowl of raisins, 
seeded, % bowl of currants, 1 bowl of cider or juice from 
sweet pickles, cinnamon, cloves and allspice to suit taste. 
Mix and boil. . Mrs. L. P. Mattatall. 

LEMON PIE. 

This will make 2 large pies. Yolks of four eggs, well 
beaten, juice and grated rind of 2 lemons, juice of 2 oranges, 

2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of bread crumbs and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, 2 cups boiling water. Pour boiling water over bread 
crumbs, and the juice of the lemons and oranges and the 
grated rind of lemon, also the yolks of eggs and the sugar. 
Cook the mixture slowly for a few minutes. Thicken with the 
flour stirred to a paste. When baked, coyer with the whites 
of eggs beaten stiff, to which a little sugar has been added. 
Return to oven and brown slightly. Mrs. Mace. 

FLAKY PIE CRUST. 

To 1 quart of flour add small teaspoon salt and i/2 teaspoon- 
baking powder, and 1-3 as much good leaf lard as flour. Mix 
with cold water until the crust does not stick to the hands, 
If not enough water is used the crust will be stiff and break 
while rolling out. Mrs. Robt. E. Smith. 



54 



HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



These Recipes Call for 



Nutmeg 

Ginger 

Mace 

Thyme 

Cream of tartar 

Cinnamon 

Cloves 

Allspice 

Mustard seed 

Caraway seed 

Celery seed 



Peppermint extract 
Almond extract 
Wintergreen extract 
Strawberry extract 
Rose extract 
Vanilla extract 
Lemon extract 



Cocoa 

Lard or Cottolene 

Gelatine 

Chocolate 

Olive oil 

Powdered sugar 

Brown sugar 

Walnuts 

Citron 

Currants 

Raisins 

Apples 

Vinegar 

Salt 

Sugar 

Syrup 

Butter 

Eggs 

Flour 



Ice cups 
Milk pitchers 
Bean pots 
Butter jars 
Meat dishes 
Bread plates 
Cake plates 
Stone jars 
Jelly glasses 
Tumblers 
Pudding dishes 
Custard cups 
Fruit dishes 
Salad dishes 
White bakers 
Mixing bowls 
Teacups 
Graduates 
Punch bowls 



Get them at W. J. Wade's, Azusa, and you will have the best. 



Schilling's 

Best 



C. W. CRAWFORD 
. . . Contractor and Builder . . . 

PLANS DRAWN AND ESTIMATES 
FURNISHED UPON APPLICATION 



Shop at Fourth, between Azusa and San Gabriel. Phone 3033 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 55 



Pickles, Spiced Fruits, Etc. 



COLD CATSUP. 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes, chopped fine and drained over 
night with 1 small cup salt, 2 red peppers chopped fine, 1 cup 
onion chopped fine, 2 roots of horseradish, grated, % cup 
mustard seed, a /2 cup celery seed, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 cup sugar, 1 quart 
vinegar (best cider). Mix cold and seal. 

Mrs. E. F. Thaxter. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Peel and cut into small pieces 18 ripe tomatoes, 5 large 
onions, 6 green chilies, then add 1 cup sugar, 2 cups vinegar, 

2 tablespoons salt. 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon. 
Cook 3 hours slowly. Mrs. C. Leslie Smith. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Have cooked and strained through coarse sieve 2 gallons 
of tomatoes, then add 2 tablespoons of salt, 1 tablespoon of 
mustard, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon cloves, !/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper, I 1 /., pints vin- 
egar. Boil until thick, bottle and set away. 

Mrs. C. Leslie Smith. 

TO CURE OLIVES. 

Soak the olives in % pound of lye to 10 gallons of water 
for 12 hours, then change into clear water for 1 day, then into 
the same quantity of lye and water as at first for another 
12 hours, or until lye has almost cut into pit. Then change into 
clear water for 8 or 10 days, changing water twice a day 
until all lye is out. Then put in a water of 4 per cent salt 
for 3 days, then into clear water 1 day, then into solution 
of 6 per cent salt and water for 3 days more and again in 
clear water 1 day and back in solution of 8 per cent salt and 
water, and in a few days wash off in clear water and put in 
final solution of 8 per cent salt and water. 

Mrs. Charles Crawford. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Two dozen ripe tomatoes, 8 onions, 6 or 8 green peppers, 
3 tablespoonfuls of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of black pepper, 
S tablespoonfuls brown sugar, 6 cups of vinegar, celery seed 
:and mustard seed to suit the taste. Cook until thick. 

Mrs. W. W. Bentley 



56 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Chop fine 12 ripe tomatoes, 2 onions and 4 green peppers. 
Add 3 tablespoons brown sugar, 3 cups vinegar and 2 teaspoons 
each mustard seed, celery seed, salt, cloves and cinnamon. 
Cook until thick. Mrs. Robt. E. Smith. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One quart green tonmtces. 1 quart yellow beans (or any 
string bean), 1 quart cucumber pickles (small or cut), 1 quart 
small onions, 1 quart lima beans, 4 green peppers, 1 large 
head cauliflower. Boil each vegetable separately in salt water 
until well done, taking the seed pods from the peppers first. 
Paste: 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup flour. 3 tablespoons 
French mustard, 3 tablespoons turmeric powder, 2 quarts vin- 
egar. Mix dry ingredients, then add vinegar and stir con- 
stantly until it boils. When thick as custard, mix in the 
vegetables and pack in jars while hot. 

-Mrs. John E. Hill. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

Two quarts cabbage, 2 quarts green tomatoes, 1 pint onions, 

2 green peppers, all chopped fine or put through a meat 
grinder. Sprinkle salt over tomatoes and let stand 10 minutes. 
Then drain off the water. Add to the mixture 2 tablespoons 
mustard, 1 tablespoon ginger, 1/2 tablespoon cloves, !/> table- 
spoon mace, y> tablespoon cinnamon, 1 small cup sugar, 3 
tablespoons turmeric powder, 1 tablespoon celery seed, and 
enough vinegar to cover. Cook until cabbage is tender. Makes- 
7 pints of pickles. Mrs. Harry Raney. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

To 1 gallon tomatoes after being boiled and strained, add 

3 tablespoons salt, 1 tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon, all- 
spice and black pepper, */(> small teaspoon cayenne, V 2 pint 
good vinegar, 1/2 cup sugar. Boil until thick enough. Bottle 
while hot. Loaned. 

MIXED PICKLE. 

Two gallons green tomatoes cut fine. 2 gallons cabbage 
cut fine. Sprinkle with small cup salt. Let stand over night. 
Squeeze out, add 5 cents worth of mixed spice, "whole," 1 
gallon vinegar, y 2 gill salt, 1% teacup sugar. Boil all 20 min- 
utes and seal. Mrs. C. C. Casey. 

"TOMATO RELISH." 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, 6 large mango peppers, 6 good- 
sized onions, ("hop all fine, add 1-3 cup salt and drain. Then 
add 2 pounds sugar, 2 quarts vinegar, 2 tablespoons cinnamon,. 
i-3 cup white mustard seed, 2 cups celery (chopped .fine). 
Cook 2 hours or longer. Mrs. T. P. Heth. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 57_ 

SOY (SAUCE FOR MEATS). 

One gallon green tomatoes (sliced), 6 large onions (sliced 
fine), 1 quart weak vinegar, 1 pint sugar, 1 tablespoon each of 
salt, mustard, black pepper, allspice, cloves. Boil in granite 
kettle till tender and seal hot. Mrs. Atkinson. 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Three tablespoons of mustard, 1 tablespoon sugar, yolk of 
1 egg, worked together until smooth. 1 cup of vinegar, added 
gradually. Cook until thickened. When cool add 1 table- 
spoon of olive oil, a little at a time, and a pinch of salt. 

Mrs. J. R. Eldred. 
CORN PICKLE. 

Thirty ears corn, 2 heads of cabbage, medium size, 3 red 
peppers (seeds out), 3 green peppers (seeds out), scant i/4 
pound mustard, scant 1% pounds white sugar, i/o teacup salt, 

1 tablespoon turmeric (fresh), 2^ quarts vinegar to suit taste. 
Put vinegar on and let boil. Mix turmeric and mustard with 
a little cold water and stir in vinegar with sugar and salt. 
Let boil till smooth. Put in cabbage. When it boils put in the 
corn and let all cook till done. Makes a nice salad served on 
a lettuce leaf. Put in self-sealers. Mrs. C. C. Casey. 

DILL PICKLES. 

For dill pickles use cucumbers about 4 or 5 inches long. 
Lay in water over night. In the morning, wipe dry and rub 
each one with ground pepper and cloves. Line the bottom of 
the pickle jar with grape leaves, then put in a layer of the 
cucumbers. Add some sliced onion and a few chili peppers 
and sprinkle with dill. Also add the dill stalks. Then put in 
another layer of grape leaves, then pickles, and so alternate 
till jar is full. Boil salted water which is heavy enough to 
float an egg. When cold, pour over the cucumbers. Put a 
light weight over the cucumbers so they will stay under the 
brine. Will be done in 10 days or 2 weeks. Mrs. Katz. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Peel peaches, put in a stone jar. Make a syrup of 1 quart 
best cider vinegar to 3 pints sugar, boil and skim and pour over 
the fruit boiling hot three successive mornings. Then drain 
off the syrup, let syrup come to a boil, put in fruit until it 
gets heated through, put in glass jars. Use cinnamon and cloves 
to suit taste. Mrs. Granville. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, 2 onions, 2 tablespoons salt, 

2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 1 teacup vinegar, 
boil slowly for half day, put through sieve and bottle. 2 or 

3 ehilies improve it. Mrs. Robt. E. Smith. 



58 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

ENGLISH SALAD PICKLES. 

Pffl and slice 6 good-sized cucumbers and '> onions. Cover 
with !/ cup salt and let stand well pressed down over night. 
Tn the morning throw away the liquor, add half ounce mus- 
tard seed, 2 tablespoons of celery seed (level), 5 ounces of 
salad oil, 1 pint cold vinegar. Will be ready to use in 48 hours, 
but the longer it stands the better. Keep in tight jars. 

Mary E. Thompson. 

GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLES. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, 6 large onions, 1 cup of 
salt over both. Mix thoroughly and let remain over night. 
Pour off liquor in the morning and throw it away. Add 3 
quarts of water and 1 quart of vinegar and boil 20 minutes. 
Drain and throw away the liquor. Take 3 pints of vinegar, 
1 pint of sugar, 1 teaspoon each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon 
smd mustard seed and 12 green peppers chopped fine. Boil 
from 1 to 2 hours. Seal. Miss Frances Jeffrey. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Take small white onions. Pack in salt 24 hours. Remove 
from salt and cook in salted water until tender. Drain and 
fill pint jars with the onions. Cover with cold vinegar arid 
seal. Mrs. Geo. Dunham. 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Take ripe cucumbers, cut lengthwise, take out seeds, soak in 
salt water 24 hours, then soak in vinegar and water 24 hours. 
Drain. Then make a syrup of 1 quart vinegar, 1 pound sugar, 
1 ounce stick cinnamon, !/2 ounce cloves, allspice (whole), and 
.a little ginger. Seal up. Mrs. J. C. Wright. 

HYDEN PICKLE. 

Take 1 gallon of cabbage, 1 gallon of green tomatoes, 1 
pmt of peppers, 1 quart of onions, sprinkle with salt, drain over 
ziight. Then add 5 tablespoons mixed mustard, 2 tablespoons 
ground ginger, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful 
of cloves, 1 of celery seed, 3 of turmeric, and 3 pounds brown 
sugar. Mix well, cover with good vinegar and boil until 
tender. Miss Metcalfe. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Three pints seeded muscat grapes, 11/2 cups sugar, i/4 cup 
of vinegar. Spices to taste, using stick cinnamoa and whole 
loves. Put cloves and allspice in cheesecloth bag. Seed the 
grapes and pour sugar over them, allowing them to stand 
several hours. Place over slow fire for 15 minutes. After that 
boil moderately, skimming often, until the mass has sufficiently 
jellied. Remove spices and seal while hot. 

Mrs. A. M. Brown. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 59_ 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Three hundred small cucumbers, 2 handfuls raisins, 1 ounce 
white mustard seed, 1 ounce black mustard seed, a few 
cardamoms, a little fennel seed, % ounce of celery seed 
handful of turmeric berries, 6 or 7 bird peppers, 1 
mustard pickle, 1 pound (or more if desired) of brown sugar. 

Mrs. H. M. Coulter. 

SPICED FIGS. 

Wash and pierce with a fork enough figs for 2 quarts. 
Place in boiling water and cook till they look clear, drain and 
let stand while syrup is being prepared. Take 2 cups of sugar, 

1 cup water, M> cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon of mixed spices. 
Boil and then "put in figs and cook till thoroughly done, 
drain and let stand for 15 or 20 minutes, when they can be 
replaced in syrup and cooked again and sealed in jars. 

Mrs. W. J. Wade. 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pare ripe cucumbers. Remove the seeds and soft parts. 
Slice into pieces of convenient size and drop into cold water 
in which a little salt and a teaspoon of alum have been dis- 
solved and let stand for several hours, or over night. Then 
put in hot water and boil until soft enough to pierce with a 
silver fork. Drain and prepare a syrup made of 2 quarts of 
vinegar 4 pounds of sugar and whole cinnamon and cloves 
or ground spices tied in a cloth. Add prepared cucumbers 
.and boil until clear. -Mrs. Samuel A. Ellis. 

PICKLED FREESTONE PEACHES. 

Eight pounds peaches cut in halves, not peeled, 4 pounds 
sugar 1 quart vinegar, 2 ounces cinnamon. 2 .ounces cloves, 

2 ounces mustard seed. Cook fruit till tender. Boil down 
syrup one-half. Seal. -Mrs. W. R. Powell 



The Standard 

Is Made in Los Angeles by 

GLOBE MILLS 



60 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



H. A. WILLIAMS 
Staple and Fancy Groceries 

Fresh Fruit and Vegetables 

7 Hay, Grain and Feed ^ 



^z=Home Phone 1023 



Sash, Doors Home Phone 38 

Kerckhoff-Cuzner 
Mill and Lumber Company 

Lumbe, Lime, Cement and Plaster 
Genasco Asphalt Roofing : : : 

None other Worth While 



Center Street Azusa, Cal. 



Home Phone 16 726 Azusa Avenue 

The Modern Grocery 

We carry the Best in our Line. 
Get your Ingredients of us and these 
Recipes will be a Success. 




For 



BARGAINS IN REAL ESTATE 



IN AZUSA AND VICINITY 



Office Platt Block Opposite Hotel Maryland 

Phone 143 Pasadena 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 61 



Preserves, Marmalades, Etc. 



CURRANT RELISH. 

Currants, 6 pounds; raisins, 3 pounds; oranges, 6 pounds; 
sugar, 6 pounds (less if desired). Chop the raisins; cut oranges 
in small pieces; stem currants. Cook the same as for jam, 
"but rather soft. Mrs. H. M. Coulter. 

PIE PLANT CONSERVE. 

One cup pie plant, 1 orange, pulp, juice and grated rind, 
1 teaspoon lemon juice, l^ cups sugar, ^ cup of blanched 
and sliced almonds. Boil pie plant, orange and lemon juice 
together about */> hour, or until pie plant is perfectly clear. 
'Then add sugar and let come to boil. Skim and add nuts. Let 
boil up once more, then put immediately in jars. 

Mrs. Robt. P. Thaxter. 

FIG MARMALADE. 

When canning fruit, preserves or sweet pickles, save the 
syrup left over, seal it and use it in cooking figs. Grapes, 
strawberries and cherries -are specially nice for this purpose. 
Peel the figs, then weigh and mash fine. To 10 pounds of figs 
add 1 quart fruit juice and boil hard 1 hour, stirring con- 
stantly, then add half as many pounds of sugar as figs and 
"boil 20 minutes more. Seal it; or it will keep in jelly glasses. 

Mrs. J. H. Anderson. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

One and one-half quarts of wetting all together 
(scant measure), a scant pint of sugar, white and shell of 1 
egg, an ounce box of Cox's gelatine, and juice of 1 lemon. 
Soak gelatine in \'-> pint cold water an hour or so. Open a can 
of pineapple, strain off tbje juice, cut the pineapple in small 
pieces, put into porcelain saucepan, pour on boiling water an,d 
simmer 20 minutes. Then skim out the pineapple, add sugar, 
gelatine, lemon, pineapple juice and white and shell of the 
egg to the mixture. Let this boil up once, then set back for 
20 minutes where it will keep hot, but not boil. Strain 
through a napkin into molds and set away to cool. When cold 
Iceep it on ice until hard. To be eaten fresh. This is very 
'delicious and is especially good for the sick. 

Mrs. James J. Ayres. 

CANTALOUPE PRESERVES. 

Seven bowls of ripe cantaloupe, 3 1 /. bowls of sugar, 1 full 
cup of vinegar, 1 bag each cinnamon and cloves. Boil all to- 
gether until preserved. Mrs. H. C. Bowers. 



_62 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Six oranges, 3 lemons sliced thin. Cover with 4 quarts 
cold water and let stand 24 hours. Then boil 1 hour and then 
stand 24 hours longer. Then measure equal quantity sugar and 
boil 1 hour. It will jelly almost as you turn it into tumblers. 

Mrs. Robt. E. Smith. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Wash grapes, pick over and remove stems. Separate pulp 
from skins and put pulp in preserving kettle. Heat to boiling 
point, then cook slowly until seeds separate from pulp ; rub 
through sieve. Return to kettle, add skins, add equal measure 
of sugar and cook slowly 30 minutes or more, stirring occasion- 
ally to prevent burning. Seal. 

CANNED GRAPES. 

The most satisfactory way of canning grapes we have found 
is to pick ripe grapes carefully from the stems and fill self- 
sealing glass jars with them (we use Economy jars and think 
them best made), using only fine, large, perfect grapes. Those 
that have been crushed or of inferior size will do for jelly. 
When the jars are filled, having placed grapes in with the 
hand in order to get them packed in solidly and as many as 
jar can possibly hold, pour boiling water over the fruit and 
let stand, covered, for about 20 minutes, or until the grapes 
have become thoroughly heated through ; then drain water off,. 
having ready a thick syrup, boiling hot, and pour over the 
grapes, filling jars to the brim, and seal at once. Grapes with 
thick, rather tough skin, such as the Muscat and other varieties,. 
are suitable for canning this way. They retain their shape 
and color and taste very much as when fresh from the vines. 

Mrs. Leroy Calvert. 



Cook) 

Light With Gas 

Heat ) 

Covina Valley Gas Company 

110 Citrus Avenue 
Covina Phone Igd 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 63 



CAKES 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cups of fruit sugar, 4 eggs. Beat sugar and eggs to- 
gether until very light. Add to this 2 cups of flour and 1 tea- 
spoon of baking powder, sifted together, and flavor to taste. 
Add 2-3 of cup boiling water. Beat thoroughly. Bake in 
moderate oven. Nettie Dingman. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, 2 eggs, y 2 cupful of cream, 1 cupful 
of flour, 1 teaspoonful of Royal baking powder. Beat sugar 
and eggs light, add the cream, and lastly, flour and powder. 
Very fine. Mrs. A. A. Dodsworth. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Six eggs, 1.14 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup flour, scant ^j 
teaspoon cream tartar, a pinch of salt added to whites of eggs 
before whipping; flavor to taste. Sift, measure and set aside 
flour and sugar. Separate the eggs, putting the whites in the 
mixing bowl and the yolks in a small bowl. Beat the yolks to 
a very stiff froth, whip whites to foam, add cream tartar and 
whip until very stiff. Add sugar to whites and beat in, add 
yolks and beat in, then flavor and beat in, then flour and fold 
lightly through. Put in a moderate oven at once. "Will bake 
in 20 to 40 minutes. Mrs. Geo. Martens. 

BLACKBERRY CAKE. 

One cup sugar, % cup butter, 3 yolks eggs, 3 tablespoons 
sour cream, 1 cup blackberry jam, 1 nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, 3 whites of eggs beaten stiff, I 1 /* cups of flour, 1 
teaspoonful of soda. Mrs. R. F. Thaxter. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, V 2 cup milk, 4 eggs, 2 cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons yeast powder, 1 cup cooked mashed potatoes, 
4 sticks grated chocolate, 1 cup chopped nuts. Caramel frost- 
ing. Mrs. J. R. Eldred. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Five cups brown sugar, 5 cups flour. 1 cup sour cream, 
1 cup butter, 1 pound raisins, 1 pound currants, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon cloves, allspice, cinnamon. 2 nutmegs, 6 eggs. 

Mrs. T. F. Heth. 





64 



HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 






Vk 






POUND CAKE. 

One pound flour, 1 light pounrl butter, 10 eggs, 1 pound 
sugar, 1 tablespoon milk, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar, then add yolks 1 at a time 
and continue to beat. Then add flour and milk. Beat whites 
until stiff. Just fold in baking powder last. 

Martha J. Dodsworth. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar beaten to a cream. Add 1 
cup of milk. 31/2 cups sifted flour mixed with 2 rounding tea- 
spoons baking powder. Then add 1 teaspoon of vanilla and 
the well beaten whites of 6 eggs. Bake in 3 layers. Put to- 
gether with the following mixture: 3 cups of sugar and 1 
cup of waiter boiled until it spins a thread. Pour gradually 
on the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Beat until the right con- 
sistency to spread. Add 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup of 
Chopped pecan or walnut meats and 5 figs cut in strips. 

-Mrs. W. J. Cox. 

LIGHTNING CAKE. 

Butter size of egg. 2 eggs. Melt butter in cup, break in 
eggs and finish filling cup with milk. Now take inixi ;^ dish, 
sift 1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar and 1 teaspoon baking powder 
together. Into this pour 4 he cup of liquids. Stir until smooth, 
add flavoring, bake in 2 layers, adding any filling desired. 

Mrs. Otanus Wright. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Butter, 1 cup; sugar, V,t> cups; eggs, 3; sweet milk, % 
cup; flour, 2 l /2 cups; cream of tartar, 2 teaspoonfuls; soda, 
1 teaspoonful. Sift the flour. Bake in jelly pans. For the 
icing: Sugar, 1 cup; sweet milk, % cup; chocolate, '/, rake; 
lemon extract, 1 teaspoonful. Let boil until it thickens, so as 
to spread betwen layers. Dora Kclchum. 

PORK CAKE. 

One pound clear, fat salt pork, over which pour 1 pint 
boiling water, 1 pint Orleans molasses, 1 pound dark sugar, 
1 pound raisins, 1 pound citron, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 la.ble- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice and mare or nut- 
meg, 7 coffee cups flour. Bake 3 hours moderately 

Mrs. J. R. Bldred. 

WORLD'S FAIR CAKE. 

Cream V-. cup butter, 1 cup sugar. Add 3 heaping table- 
spoons unsweetened chocolate, 3 eggs, beaten well, '/-. cup 
sweet milk. I*/, cup flour, 1% teaspoons baking powder. ~P>ake 
in layers. Filling: Boil iy 2 cups granulated sugar wi h 6 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 65 

tablespoons of water until it drops from the spoon in threads. 
Have ready beaten the white of 1 egg and pour the syrup 
slowly into it, beating all the time. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Leslie Smith. 

DEVIL'S CAKE. 

Two squires of Baker's sweetened chocolate, i/o cup sweet 
milk, 1/2 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Let boil until 
thickens, then set aside to cool. 3 eggs, % cup butter, 2 cups 
of sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 1 X> cups of flour, 2 teaspoons baking- 
powder. Add dark part to it, bake in 3 layers, put together 
with chocolate icing. Filling: Half teacup grated chocolate 
(sweet), 1/2 cup granulated sugar, 1 egg, V-> cup of sweet milk, 
flavor. Stir well and boil until smooth. When cool add pul- 
verized sugar until thick as desired for filling. 

Mrs. Geo. Martens. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF. 

3 eggs, beaten separately, l 1 /^ cups granulated sugar, 1/2 cu$ 
butter, % cup sweet milk, 21/2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, 1/2 teaspoon soda, 2 squares chocolate. To the chocolate 
add 1/2 the milk and stir over a slow fire until thoroughly dis- 
solved. Add 1/2 ( ' U P sugar and stir till well mixed. Then set 
aside to cool. Sift flour once, then measure. Add soda and 
sift 3 times. Cream butter and the remainder of sugar. Beat 
yolks to a stiff froth and stir in. Whip whites to a foam 
and add cream tartar and whip until stiff. Add the remainder 
of the milk to the chocolate and stir. Add the mixture, then 
the flour, and stir very hard. Add whites of eggs and beat in. 
Bake slow. Mrs. J. C. Wright. 

ONE EGG CAKE. 

Break 1 egg into a coffee cup (large), Ihen fill the cup up 
with thick cream. Add 1 cup sugar, 1/2 teaspoon salt. 2-3 tea- 
spoon vanilla or lemon, l 1 /^ cups flour with 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Bake in gem pans. Mrs. Robt. E. Smith. 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

Two cups buttermilk, iy 2 cups brown sugar, 2 1 /-. cups flour r 
1/2 cup raisins, Vii cup walnuts, small piece of citron and lemon, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon cloves, V 2 teaspoon nutmeg, 
1/2 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake % 
hour in slow oven. Mrs. W. A. Sproul. 

LOAF CAKE. 

One coffee cup thick sour cream, 1 coffee cup sugar, 2 tea- 
cups flour, 1/2 teaspoon soda sifted in flour, saltspoon salt,. 
V> cup raisins, V> cup chopped walnuts, 3 eggs. Bake in loaf. 

Mrs. J. T. Lindley. 



66 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

WORLD'S FAIR CAKE. 

One-fourth cup butter, % cup sugar, !/> cup milk, I 1 /:- 
cups sifted Hour, 3 eggs beaten separately, 1 teaspoon baking- 
powder. J/0 teaspoon salt. Boil together 3 tablespoons milk, 
3 tablespoons sugar, 4 tablespoons, chocolate, cool and add to 
above. Bake in layers. Filling: 2 cups sugar, y% cup milk. 
Let come to boiling point and add butter the size of an egg, 

1 teaspoon vanilla. Stir until it thickens enough to spread. 

Mrs. John Hibsch. 

GOLD CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, % of a cup of butter, 2 cups of flour, 
% of a cup of water, the yolks of 8 eggs, 1 teaspoonful baking- 
powder. Mrs. James J. Ayres. 

WHITE LOAF CAKE. 

One-halt' nip butter and 1 cup sugar b'-ateii 1<> a cream. 
% cup sweet milk, l 1 /^ cups of flour. 2 small teaspoons baking- 
powdfci*)* Whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff, added last. Flavor to 
taste. Bake in moderate oven in a small square cake pan. 
Icing: 4 yolks, 1 cup powdered sugar, flavor. Beat till light 
and stiff. Mrs. Atkinson. 

GOLDEN CREAM CAKE. 

Cream 1 cup sugar and y cup butter. Add V-2 cup sweet 
milk, the well beaten whites of 3 eggs, l 1 /^ cups flour, with: 
y% teaspoon soda and 1 teaspoon cream tartar sifted w r ith it ; 
bake in 3 deep jelly tins. Cream filling : Beat the yolks of eggs 
add P/IJ tablespoons corn starch, 1 cup sugar, % cup sw r eet 
milk, and small lump of butter. Cook in double boiler till 
thick. Let cool and spread between layers. Flavor to suit. 

-Mrs. L. P. Mattatall. 

GERMAN FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound flour (browned) r 

2 pounds raisins, 2 pounds currants, 1 pound citron. 1 dozen- 
eggs, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 1 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in 1 glass of brandy. 1 pint whisker, 
1 pint port wine. Cut fruit and soak in whiskey and wine. 
From a German cooking school. Mrs. Robt. F. Thaxter. 

VANITY CAKE, 

One and one-half cups sugar, y% cup butter, y% cup sweet 
milk, 1^2 cups flour, 1/2 cup, corn starch, 1 teaspoon baking- 
powder, whites of 6 eggs. Beat sugar and butter to a cream, 
add milk and corn starch, sift baking powder and flour to- 
gether and add then the well beaten whites of eggs. Flavor to 
suit taste, bake in two layers, putting frosting between and on 
top. Mrs. L. P. Mattatall. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 67_ 

EGOLESS CAKE. 

One cup white sugar, i/ 3 cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 1 
small teaspoon soda in milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 tea- 
spoon cloves, 2 cups flour, 1 cup raisins seeded and chopped, 
1 cup currants. Mix and bake 1 hour in moderate oven. 

Mrs. A. R. Bryan. 

SPICE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup molasses, _y 2 cup butter, 1 cup 
cold coffee, 1 teaspoont'uJ soda (level), 1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 teaspoonful . cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful allspice, 1 nutmeg, 
1 cup nuts (chopped), y 2 pound raisins (chopped), V-2 pound 
currants, flour until real stiff. Mix soda with coffee and' 
molasses. Bake in slow oven % hour. Mrs. I. D. Roach. 

HOT WATER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, ] cup flour, 2 eggs less the white of 1, pinch 
of salt, 2 level teaspoons baking powder sifted 3 times with 
flour. Beat egg yolks with sugar. Add flour anl white of 
egg beaten stiff. Mix all together and add l /o CU P boiling water 
last. Flavor to taste. Use white of eggs for frosting. 

-Mrs: M. A. Judd. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Take 3 cups of sifted flour, 2 cups of white sugar, y 2 cup 
butter, 1 cup ice water, whites of 4 eggs. Cream butter well, 
add water and flour, put half the sugar in this, beat whites 
of eggs and add the rest of the sugar in the eggs. Lastly, 
add 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, mixed well, in about 
1 tablespoonful flour. One teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. H. R. Bierbower. 

MOCHA CAKE. 

Two eggs well beaten, 1 cup of sugar gradually beaten in 
1 cup of flour. Add at last 1/2 cup of boiling hot milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Bake in 2 layers. Filling : *4 CU P f 
butter creamed, 1 heaping cup of confectioner's sugar creamed 
with butter, 2 tablespoons strong coffee, 2 teaspoonfuls cocoa, 

1 teaspoon! nl vanilla. Miss Bradley. 

A PRIZE CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup of butter beaten to a cream 2 cups of gran- 
ulated sugar, 1 cup of milk, whites of 8 eggs, 3 cups of flour, 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder: Af'er butter has been 
beaten to a cream, add sugar and cream them together, adding 1 
milk during the process of creaming, then add the flour, and 
last, finely beaten whites of eggs. Have everything in read- 
iness before beginning to make cake. Sift the flour, then re- 
turn to sifter 3 even CL. +> 'ils. There will be a small quantity 



68 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

over. Into this put the baking powder and mix it with the 
flour, leaving this in a covered cup until just as you put the 
flour into the cake, then add to sifter. Have whites of eggs 
beaten and in a cool place until needed. Beat cake well 
before putting in eggs, then fold them in. Have pans greased 
with pure lard, with paper fitted in each pan adds much to fine 
quality of cake. Use good lemon and vanilla extract, i/2 tea- 
spoonful of each. This cake can be made in four layers; 
with any desired tilling. When exhibited at a county fair in 
Illinois it was covered with a beautiful snowy icing which 
was made as follows: 1 cup of granulated sugar, cold water 
enough to wet sugar; boil until it threads. Let stand about 
1/2 minute, then pour very slowly over the beaten whites of 
2 eggs, beating briskly all the time syrup is being poured. 
Beat until cold. Add the juice of y 2 lemon into the icing, 
which makes it snowy white arid gives it the taste of lemon ice.. 

Mrs. Leroy Calvert. 

WHITE LOAF. 

Whites of 8 eggs, 2 cups powdered or a big cup and a half 
of granulated sugar, !/> cup butter, % cup milk, 3 cups flour, 
2 teaspoons baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add 
milk, then beaten whites of egg, then flour, stirring hard. 
After this has been in hot oven 5 minutes, open door and leave 
it 2 or 3 minutes and close. Repeat 3 times and bake until' 
done. Mrs. R, F. Thaxter. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup butter. 1 cup milk r 
2 J /i> cups flour (level), 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 eggs (or 
4 yolks), 1-3 cake Baker's chocolate melted and stirred into 
the butter and sugar. The flour should be sifted first, then 
measured and scraped off with a knife even at the top of cup. 
The half cup of flour should come up only level with the half 
cup line. Bake in moderate oven. Mrs. W. J. Wade. 

HEBRON CAKE (CONNECTICUT). 

Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; eggs, 2; milk, 1 lbip; soda, 1 
teaspoon ; chopped raisins, 1 pound ; 1 nutmegil 3ups flour. 



Cream butter, sugar and eggs. Dissolve soda in milk and add 
alternately with flour, lastly, nutmeg and raisins. Bake slowly 
for an hour or a trifle longer. Mrs. H. M. Coulter. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 5 eggs, 1 cup- 
strong coffee, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons cloves, l /-> 
nutmeg, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup currants, citron, 1 pound! 
English walnuts, 3 teaspoon soda, 3 cups flour. 

Mrs. W. A. Davis. 




AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 69_ 

SNOW CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, i/o cup butter, iy 2 cups flour, J /2 cup 
corn si arch, 2 teaspoons baking powder and y 2 cup milk. 
Beat whites of 3 eggs stiff and add last. Bake in loaf or 
layers. Mrs. J. W. Gal vert. 

FAVORITE NUT CAKE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 1/2 cup butter, add 4 eggs 
beaten to a froth, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder 
sifted into 3 cups of flour, 2 cups of chopped walnuts. Flavor 
with teaspoon lemon. Mrs. Robt. E. Smith. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

Unsweetened apple sauce, 1 cup; soda, 1 teaspoon; sugar. 
1 cup ; butter, !/o cup ; raisins, 1 cup ; flour, 1% cups, cinnamon 
1 teaspoon; cloves, 1 teaspoon, pinch of salt. Bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. H. M. Coulter. 

NUT CAKE. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 3 cups of sifted flour, 
4 eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 1 cup of water, 2 cups chopped walnut kernels, 
1 cup see.ded raisins. Add nuts arid raisins the last. 

Mrs. James J. Ayres. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

"Whites of 8 large or 9 small eggs, P/4 cups granulated 
sugar, 1 level cup sifted flour, !/>' teaspoon cream tartar, pinch 
of salt added to eggs before beating. Flavor to taste. Sift 
sugar and measure, sift flour 3 times and measure. Whip 
eggs with salt to a foam, add cream of tartar and whip till very 
stiff. Add sugar and beat in, then flavoring and beat. Sift 
in flour and fold in lightly, stirring as little as possible. Put 
lightly in the baking tin, bake in moderate oven 40 minutes. 

Mrs. W. J. Wade. 

SILVER CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, 3 cups of sifted flour, 2 cups sugar, 
% of a cup of water or milk, the whites of 8 eggs, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with almond extract. 

Mrs. James J. Ayres. 

\.\ 5 ^^ 
LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

One cup of sugar. 1 scant V-> cup of butter, 2-3 of a cup of 
cold water. 1 egg, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Bake in layers and fill with jelly. Jelly filling: 
The grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. Add 1 cup of sugar and 
] egg. Beat thoroughly and boil in double boiler till cooked. 
Spread when cool. Mrs. Granville. 










_70 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

. On beaten whites of 10 eggs sift 1 '/j cups pulverized sugar 
and a goblet of flour, through which has been sifted 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar; stir very gently. Cream : y a pint sweet cream, 
yolks of 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon pulverized sugar, 1 teaspoon corn 
starch. Dissolve starch with a little milk; beat yolks and 
sugar, boil cream and stir ingredients as for any cake filling, 
only a little thicker. Blanch and chop fine y 2 pound almonds; 
stir into cream. Put together like jelly cake while icing is 
soft. Mrs. F. A. Carpenter. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

Black part: 1 cup brown sugar, 2 eggs, y 2 cup of butter, 
% cup molasses, y 2 cup strong coffee, 2% cups flour, 1 cup 
raisins, 1 of currants, a teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon and 
cloves, and y 2 teaspoon of mace. White part: 2 cups sugar, 
y 2 cup butter, 1 milk, 2 1 / 4 of flour, 1 corn starch, whites 
of 4 eggs, small teaspoon cream tartar. Make frosting of 
whites of 2 eggs to put between the layers. 

Mary E. Thompson. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Cream together y 2 cup of butter and 2 cups of sugar. Add 
] cup of milk, 2y 2 cups of flour sifted with 1 teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Mix thoroughly, then add the whites of 
4 eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Put these ingredients to- 
gether with care, bake in 3 layers and put marshmallow filling 
between. Marshmallow filling: 1 pound pulverized sugar, 
1 tablespoon (heaping) of granulated gelatine dissolved in 
% cup of boiling water. Pour this over the sugar and beat 
y 2 hour. Flavor to taste. Let stand until it commences to get 
solid, then spread on layers. Mrs. J. C. Twitchell. 

CARAMEL FILLING FOR WHITE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup of sugar, y 2 cup of butter, 1 egg, the 
juice and half the grated rind of one lemon, 1 teaspoonful of 
nutmeg, y 2 cup of boiling water. Cream the butter and sugar 
and beat in the egg. whipped light, add lemon and nutmeg, 
beat hard, then add water. Put in double boiler until the sauce 
is very hot, but not boiling. Stir constantly. 

Mrs. Granville, 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Two cups sugar (1 white and 1 brown), 1 cup milk, butter 
size of egg, 1 tablespoon each of lemon and vanilla, 1 cup finely 
cut citron, raisins and candied cherries. Boil sugar, milk and 
butter till almost candy. Just before taking off, stir in lemon, 
vanilla, citron, cherries and raisins. Put between layers of 
-white cake. Mrs. I. D. Roach. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 71 

"T&ELLESLEY FUDGE CAKE." 

(Miss Rogers' Recipe That Captured Her Multi-Millionaire 

Husband) . 

Take 1 cup sugar, 2-3 cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 1 / 
cups flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, % cup 
of chocolate, % cup of English walnuts, broken up coarsely, 
cream the butter and sugar together, add the cup of milk and 
then stir in lightly the flour, in which the heaping spoonful of 
baking powder has been sifted. Then stir in the chocolate, 
which has been dissolved by placing in a cup and setting in 
hot water. Add the nuts and lastly the eggs, which should be 
bea' en, whites and yolks separately. The fudge frosting 
should be made as follows : IVk tablespoons of butter, 1/2 cup 
unsweetened powdered cocoa, li/4 cups confectioner's sugar, 
a few grains of salt, 14 cup milk, i/ 2 teaspoonful vanilla. Melt 
butter, add cocoa, sugar, salt and milk. Heat to boiling point 
.and boil about 8 minutes. Remove from fire and beat until 
creamy. Add vanilla and pour over cake to depth of K inch. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

One and a half cups dried (tart) apples, stewed, sweetened 
and run through a sieve, 1 cup sugar, 2 1 /- cups flour, butter 
size of an egg, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon cloves, 2 
small teaspoons soda dissolved in a little water, pinch of salt. 
Stir sugar and butter to a cream. Add warm apple sauce, 
flour and spices; beat well. Add soda, pour in pans, let stand 
10 minutes, then bake. Put together wilh icing made by 
boiling Vi> cup walnuts mea+s (broken) with the sugar. Flavor 
wi:h almond. Mary E. Thompson. 

ICING. 

To 3 tablespoons rich cream add enough powdered sugar 
1<> spread well. Flavor with vanilla. Delicious, easily made, 
mid never crumbles or breaks from cake. Is also a good 
fondant for candy. Mrs. J. H. Anderson. 

APPLE FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

Grate 2 apples, rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 egg, cup of 
sugar, small lump of butter, cook slowly. 

-Mrs. C. H. Lee. 

ICING. 

Beat whi'es of two eggs until stiff and pour over them 
a syrup made of 2 cups of sugar boiled in a little water until 
thick. Beat until smooth and white and spread over cookies 
and cakes. -Mrs. W. W. Bentley. 



72 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 




THE GIFT STORE 

The house of Brock & Feagans may well be 
'ermed the gift store of Los Angeles, so replete 
ii every department with appropriate and uncom- 
mon gift suggestions. 
Our suggestions embrace not only gold, silver and jewels, 
but the best in fine stationery, leather goods, brass, cop- 
per, bronze, art pottery, marble, Tiffany Favrile glass, en- 
graved rock crystal, cut glass and French and English china. 
We wish you to inspect the 

SIXTEEN DEPARTMENTS 

and the separate booths and rooms with as much freedom 
as you would feel in any exhibition. You will find many 
beautiful and still inexpensive articles especially suitable for 
every gift occasion. 

"Visiior and Buyer Alike Welcome" 

BROCK & TEAGANS 

JEWELERS : AND : GEM : MERCHANTS 
Broadway, Los Angeles 



J. J. GRAIN 

Proprietor CITY MARKET 

Prime Beef, Mutton, PorK 

Always on hand 

Highest Prices Paid for Beef Cattle, Pork and Poultry 
Phone 18 



irwj 



{Irmrtptum 



The Biggest and Busiest Drug Store in the Valley 
CLENDORA, CAL. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 73 



Doughnuts, Cookies and Small Cakes 



MARGUERITES. 

(My own way of making them). 

Take of pulverized sugar, 2 cups; shredded walnut meats, 
% cup; vanilla to suit. Stir this all up with some nice thick 
cream (condensed milk is good if you have no cream). Mix 
in cream until it is thin enough to spread easily on crackers. 
The best and nicest are the Saratoga wafers or Cupid Chips, 
"but ordinary square ones are good. Spread thin and lay on 
table to harden, which will be in about 10 minutes. Then 
I would advise you to lock them up if you have a -boy in the 
house, that is, if you desire to have any left. 

Mrs. M. J. Coffin. 

SCOTCH OAT CAKES. 

Two eggs well beaten, 1 cup sugar, 3 cups rolled oats, 1 
tablespoon butter, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Mix and 
drop from a teaspoon on baking pan, allowing room for spread- 
ing. Mrs. E. W. Stewart. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, % cup butter, i/ 2 cup lard, 

1 tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon soda, flour to make stiff dough. 
Make into small balls arid place 1% inches apart in pan and 
bake. Mrs. T. P. Heth. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar, 1/2 cup butter, y 2 cup of>cold coffee, 

2 eggs. 11/2 cups flour, 1% teaspoons baking powder, spices to 
taste, and 1/2 cup of raisins. Mrs. M. A. Fuller. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cup hot water, !/ 2 cup of butter; boil the water and 
butter together and stir in a cupful of dry flour while boiling; 
when cool, add 3 eggs, not beaten; mix well; drop by the 
tablespoonfuls on buttered tins ; bake in a quick oven 25 min- 
utes. This makes 12 puffs. Cream for the puffs: 1 cup of 
milk. y 2 cup sugar, 1 egg, 3 tablespoonfnls of flour; beat the 
eggs and sugar together, add the flour and stir in the milk 
while boiling; flavor with vanilla. When puffs are cool, open 
and fill with cream. -Mrs. F. L. Clark. 

MOLASSES CAKE WITHOUT SHORTENING. 

Bring to a boil 1 cup of molasses, stir in 1 tablespoon soda, 
pour it while foaming over 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon 



74 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

of ginger. Then add 1 tablespoon of vinegar, flour to make 
stiff. If they run, make stiffer. Try a few first. I usually 
make a double dose. Try and see if you do not like them 
better than with shortening. They are just as good after 
three months if kept in tins. Mrs. Robert Oscar. 

LITTLE WALNUT CAKES. 

Whites of 3 eggs, 1 cupful pulverized sugar, 1 cupful nuts 
chopped fine. Beat whites of eggs to stiff froth, add sugar and 
nuts. Drop by teaspoonfuls on buttered tins and bake slowly. 

Jean McNair. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

One large cup of sugar, a little more than 1/2 cup of butter, 

2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of hot water, 1/2 tc;ispoonful of soda. 
Flovor with lemon and roll very thin. .Mrs. F. L. Clark. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup shortening, 1 cup brown sugar, 
1/2 cup water, 2 teaspoons each of ginger and cinnamon, 1/2 
teaspoon cloves, 2 tablespoons vinegar, flour. 

Mrs. A. R. Heald. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One egg beaten light, 1 cup of sugar, 1/2 teaspoon of salt, 
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg. Take 1-3 cup sour cream, filling the cup 
running over with sour milk. Dissolve a level teaspoon of 
soda in a little cold water and add to sour milk and other in- 
gredients. Then stir in flour, to which has been added 1 
teaspoon baking powder. Make stiff enough to roll out. Fry 
in deep fat. Mrs. Asa Hall. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups of bread sponge, 2 eggs. 1 cup sugar, 1 heaping 
tablespoon lard. Put all in the sponge and mix in loaf, leaving 
quite soft. Let raise, then make in shape to fry. then l't mise 
again, then fry. Mrs. W. W. Heth. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One quart flour, 1/2 pint sweet milk, 1 cup sugar. 1 egg, 

3 teaspoons baking powder, % teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
lialf lard and half butter. Mix all the dry ingredients together, 
then stir the egg into the milk. Mix like biscuit and fry in hot 
lard. Mrs. E. W. Stewart. 

EXCELLENT COOKIES. 

One cup butter, 11/2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, 1/0 c 'up sour 
ream. 1 cup chopped raisins, li/ 2 cups chopped walnuts. 1 
teaspoon vanilla. V> teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda. Flour to 
mix soft dough. Jennie Baker. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 75_ 

COOKIES. 

One cup butter, 1 cup of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 1 tablespoon 
milk, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, and flavoring to 
taste. Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk and eggs 
beaten light. Then add the flour and enough more to roll out 
if necessary. Roll a little at a time and cut out. Bake in 
quick oven. Mrs. M. A. Fuller. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

Three eggs, 1 cup butter, iy 2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 cup chopped 
raisins and a little citron. Mrs. Harry Raney. 

CHRISTMAS COOKIES. 

One pound butter ? 2 pounds brown sugar, 1 cup buttermilk, 

1 teaspoonful of soda, 1 cupful of powdered coriander seed, 
some mixed spices. Mix in a stiff dough and roll out thin. 
Bake, place in an earthen jar, where they will keep 6 months. 

Mrs. J. R. Eldred. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

Half pound of butter, 1 pint of cream, enough flour for a 
dough which can easily be worked by the hands. Cream the 
butter, then add the cream, then the flour. Put in a cool place 
over night. Roll out thin and form in figures "8V about 2 
or 3 inches long. Then roll through sugar and bake in an / 
ungreased pan. Mrs. Katz. 

FRUIT COOklES. 

One cup butter. 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon thick 
sweet cream, 1 pound currants, washed and thoroughly dried, 

2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, flavor. Add flour 
for soft dough. -Mrs. T. F. Heth. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Four teacups of oatmeal, 3 teacups of flour, 2 teacups of 
sugar, 2 teacups of seeded raisins, 2-3 teacup of butter, 1 tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of soda in % cup of water, 

3 eggs, and a pinch of salt. Mrs. W. W. Heth. 

HERMITS OR FRUIT COOKIES. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup raisins 
chopped, 1 cup currants, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon cloves, 14 cup warm water, flour to mix soft. 
Sprinkle sugar on top and bake. Mrs. I. D. Roach. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cup of sugar. 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup 
of shortening, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger, 1 
teaspoonful of soda. Mrs. W. W. Bentley. 



76 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

COOKIE RECIPE. 

One egg, l 1 /^ cups sugar, I cup of lard, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, a little salt, a little soda, 1 cup sweet milk, 
flour to mix into a dough. Use any flavor desired. 

P. S. A little salt. I use about 1/2 teaspoon and about !/4 
teaspoon of soda. You use this because the lard has no salt. 

Mrs. Altena Wolgamot. 

TENNIS COOKIES. 

Two eggs, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, Va teaspoon of soda in 
% cup sweet milk, spice or vanilla and flour to roll thin. To 
be successful, take small amount of dough at one time and roll 
until you can see the board through the dough. The soda 
prevents the cookie from wrinkling as it bakes. 

Mrs. E. Vehslage Rice. 

IDA MAE COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 4 eggs not beaten, 4 cups 
flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 teaspoons vanilla. Chop- 
ped nuts may be added if desired. Mrs. Harry Raney. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Three-fourths cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup chopped 
raisins, 1 cup chopped nuts, 2 cups oatmeal, 2 eggs not beaten, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon soda in 2 
cups flour. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, cinnamon, 
salt and rolled oats. Stir w^ll. Add raisins, nuts and flour. 
Stir well and drop in greased pans. Bake 20 minutes. . 

Mrs. Percy Jackson. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup New Orleans molasses, Va cup butter, 
% cup lard, 1 cup boiling water in which 2 level teaspoons 
soda have been di?T< 1 T ed, 3 cups sifted floir'r, 1 teaspoon each 
of cinnamon and ginger. Mrs. Lawson M. La Fe'ni. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One cup sour cream, 1 cup sugiir, \'-_> cup molasses, 2 eggs, 
1 even leaspoon ginger, 1 rounded teaspoon soda, Vi> teasnooon 
cinnamon, i/4 teaspoon cloves, ] /4 teaspoon maee, about 3 cups 
flour. Mrs. P. C. Daniels. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Two-thirds cup molasses, 2-3 cup sugar (brown), 1 cup 
sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful saleratus, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 
1 teaspoonful ginger, "1/2 teaspoonful salt, 21/2 eupfuls 
flour. This makes fine ginger bread. Original recipe of Hor- 
acio Raffo, pastry cook of Palace Hotel, San Francisco. 

Mrs. Chase. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 77 

NEW YORK GINGER BREAD. 

Cream 1 cup of butter. Add to it 1 cup of sugar. 4 eggs, 
yolk and whites beaten separately, 4 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon 
of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of ginger. Then in another dish mix 
1- cup of sour milk with one cup of molasses, 2 teaspoons of 
soda dissolved in 2 tablespoons of hot water, 1 teaspoon of salt. 
Then turn this int.-) the other and mix well. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. Helen Mitchell. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Three-fourths cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs (not beaten), 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, salt, 2 cups oatmeal, 1 cup chopped rai- 
sins, % teaspoon of soda stirred into 2 cups of flour. Take 
small lumps in fingers and pat in pan. 

Mrs. W. R. Powell. 

HOT WATER GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, ] /2 cup boiling water, 2 1 / 4 cups flour, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1% teaspoons ginger. 1 teaspoon salt, 4 table- 
spoons melted butter. Add water to molasses. Mix and sift 
dry ingredients, combine mixtures, add butter and beat vigor- 
ously, pour into buttered pan and bake 25 minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. Mrs. L. P. Mattatall. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, l 1 /^ teaspoons soda, 1 cup sugar, 2\fa 
cups flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, 1 egg, V- 2 cup butter, 1 cup boiling 
water, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 1 cup raisins or 1/2 cup chopped nuts. Mix molasses and 
soda well. Add dry ingredients sifted, then well beaten egg, 
melted butter and boiling water lastly. Mrs. A. R. Heald. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Two eggs, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 
cup buttermilk, 1 tablespoon soda, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon gin- 
ger. Mrs. E. W. Stewart. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One and a half cups Orleans molasses, % cup brown sugar, 
1/2 cup butter, 1/2 cup water, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
allspice, 1/2 teaspoon ginger, 1 apple sliced fine, 3 cups flour. 
Heat sugar, molasses, spices and shortening together, then add 
water and flour with soda sifted in it. Bake in bread pans in 
moderate oven. Mary B. Thompson. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 
4 eggs, 2^/2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 
1 teaspoon ginger, 2 teaspoons soda. Bake in deep tins from 
45 minutes to 1 hour. Mrs. Otanus Wright. 



78 



HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One-half cup sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon butter, i/ cup 
molasses, % teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves and ginger, ^ 
cup boiling water in which is dissolved 1 teaspoon soda, 1^ 
scant cups flour. Add last, 1 well beaten egg. Bake in 
moderate oven. Good eaten warm. Mrs. J. H. Anderson. 



SUPPLIES 




Estimates Furnished 



Designed 



Electtical Fixtuies 
Tungsten Lamps 



House Wiring and all Classes 
of Electrical Work : : : 




1 08 West Orange Avenue 
P. O. Box 294 Monrovia, Cal. 



Pomona Steam Laundry Co, 

The Oldest Laundry in the Valley 
ALWAYS UP-TO-DATE 

Call in our drivers and ask for price list. 
First class work guaranteed, with quick delivery. 

Lorbeer Bros., ^Prop's 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 79 



ADVICE IN PREPARING EVENING SUPPER. 

One gallon of ice cream for every 20 guests ; 150 sandwiches 
for every 100 people; 5 chickens and 1 dozen heads of celery 
to fifty persons; twenty cakes for every 100 persons. This 
is a generous amount. Mrs. James J. Ayres. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Mash the yolks of hard-boiled eggs to a powder and moisten 
with olive oil and a few drops of vinegar. "Work to paste. 
Add salt, pepper and French mustard to taste, with a drop or 
two of tabasco sauce. Chop whites of eggs until a coarse 
powder and mix with the yolk paste. If more seasoning is 
necessary, add it before spreading on slices of graham bread. 

Mrs. Percy Jackson. 

MIXED SANDWICHES. 

('hop cold chicken, ham and tongue. With 1 pint of meat 
use ^ cup melted butter, 1 tablespoon olive oil, 1 tablespoon 
mustard, beaten yolks of an egg and pepper. 

. Mrs. H. M. Coulter. 

CREOLE SANDWICHES. 

Six tablespoons' chopped chicken- or veal, 2 tablespoons 
chopped red peppers, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, enough 
mayonnaise to spread well. Jennie Baker. 

CREAM CHEESE AND SWEET PEPPER SANDWICHES. 

Scald the peppers and take off the biting taste, and drain 
them. Lay on the ice for some hours. Wipe and mince. Mix 
two-thirds cream cheese and one-third peppers into a smooth 
paste. Spread upon lightly buttered bread and put together 
in sandwich form. 

TOMATO SANDWICHES. 

Butter thin slices of broad and lay between them slices of 
fresh ripe tomatoes from which the skin has been pared. 
Spread each slice of tomato with mayonnaise or a good French 
dressing. 

NASTURTIUM SANDWICHES. 

Substitute for the lettuce leaves petals of nasturtium 
flowers dipped in French dressing. This is a piquant and 
appetizing sandwich. 



80 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One and a half cups grated New York cheese, 1 egg beaten 
separately, but white not stiff, % cup sweet milk, pepper, 
mustard and salt to taste. Scald milk and remove from fire, 
add yolk, cheese, white of egg and seasoning. Bring to boil, 
then remove from fire. When cold spread between buttered 
bread cut thin and toast in hot oven in a pan, turning them 
over. Mrs. Ralph Holmes. 

CHEESE SANDWICH FILLING. 

Melt 1 tablespoon of butter in a saucepan. Let this run over 
the bottom of the pan, then turn in % of a pound of rich 
eastern cheese and a dash of cayenne pepper. Stir constantly 
till melted, then add gradually the beaten yolk of an egg- 
diluted with J/4 cup of cream. When smooth set aside to be- 
come cool. Mrs. J. W. Calvert. 

DEVILED OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

One small bottle pimolas chopped fine, 4 tablespoons salad 
dressing, 2 tablespoons finely rolled cracker crumbs. Mix 
well together. This quantity will make 20 small sandwiches. 

Mrs. W. J. Cox. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Butter thin slices of bread and lay between them in sand- 
wich form crisp leaves of heart lettuce which have been dipped 
in mayonnaise dressing. One leaf of lettuce suffices for each 
sandwich. 

FILLING FOR CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Cook the chicken until the meat slips from the bones. 
Put through meat grinder and add three ground walnuts to 
each cup of meat, and enough cooked mayonnaise dressing 
to moisten well. Add salt to taste. Mrs. Mace. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 81 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Beat 2 eggs very light, Add 1 scant teaspoon salt and 1 
pint of milk. Pour % cup of this mixture over % of a cup 
of flour and stir to a smooth paste. Add remainder of mix- 
ture and beat well. Bake in hot gem pans, greased with beef 
drippings 25 minutes. Baste with beef drippings, and as soon 
as done serve on platter surrounding the roast beef. To be 
eaten with beef gravy. Mrs. J. T. Lindley. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

One pint of cracker crumbs, 1 quart of sweet milk, 1 cupful of 
sugar, 1 teaspoonful of butter, 4 eggs, pinch of salt. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs, stir in milk and sugar and crumbs and salt, 
bake in a dish until done. When cool, spread top with jelly 
and spread frosting on top and brown in oven. 

Mrs. Chas. Crawford. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
cup raisins, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup chopped nuts, 1 cup suet, 4 
cups flour, 1/9 cup citron. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. W. R. Powell. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One cup flour, iy 2 cups graham flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 
V 2 teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon cloves, 1 heaping teaspoon 
mace. 1 heaping teaspoon nutmeg, 1 heaping teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup chopped figs, \/ cup citron and 
mixed peel, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup molasses. Sift the soda, 
salt and spice into the flour, rub in the suet and add the fruit 
floured. Mix the milk with the molasses and stir it into the 
dry mixture. Steam in a buttered pudding mold 4 hours. 
Serve with a foamy sauce. This pudding will keep a long time 
in cool weather and can be steamed over several times without 
any injury to the flavor. -Mrs. G. W. Knight. 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Quarter 6 large peaches and put in buttered pan, sprinkle 
with sugar and pour over the following cake batter: 1 egg, 
1 tablespoon butter, V 2 cup sugar, i/ 2 cup of milk, 1 cup of 
flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and pinch of salt. Bake 45 
minutes Mrs. John Daly. 



82 HOW'Wr(2QQK IN AZUSA. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Two eggs, 1 cup milk, l 1 / 2 cups flour, 1 tablespooriful 
melted butter, i/2 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
2 pounds cherries, stoned. Beat eggs light, add milk, then the 
alt, butter, flour and baking powder. Beat well, turn into 
oiled tin. Lay the cherries on top, press down, sprinkle well 
with granulated sugar and bake about 25 minutes. Serve hot 
with cream sauce. Mrs. P. C. Daniels. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound suet chopped fine, 2 eggs beaten, l /2 pound 
currants, */> pound raisins, J /2 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, flour according to size of pudding, enough milk 
,to moisten, rind of 1 large lemon, wine glass of wine or 
brandy and less milk if liquor is used. Wet and flour cloth, 
tie up and boil 3 hours. Mrs. Percy Jackson. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One-half cup butter, 1/2 cup of sugar, 2 eggs, 1^ cups 
flour, i/2 teaspoon baking powder, 1/2 cup milk, i/ 2 cup grated 
sweet chocolate. Cream butter and sugar and mix other in- 
gredients as in a cake. Bake in a tube pan. Serve hot with 
sauce. Sauce : % pound grated sweet chocolate, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla and 1 pint water. Boil until thick. 
Serve cake on plate with saiice around it and whipped cream on 
top. Mrs. Ralph Holmes. 

GERMAN APPLE PUDDING. 

Sift together 2 cups flour, i/> cup sugar, 3 level teaspoons 
baking powder, !/2 teaspoon salt. Work in 1-3 cup butter. 
Then mix to a soft dough with 1 beaten egg diluted with 1 cup 
of milk. Spread in a flat oblong pan and lay quartered apples 
in rows on top. Sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg. Bake % 
hour in a quick oven. Jennie Baker. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart milk, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 2 tablespoons 
chocolate, V 2 cup sugar. Boil milk in farina boiler. Dissolve 
cornstarch and chocolate in little milk, add to hot milk and 
sugar. Cook 10 minutes. Mrs. Percy Jackson. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Roll very fine enough crackers to line a pudding dish. 
Mix these with cinnamon, sugar and the juice of a lemon. 
Put in the- bottom of a buttered pudding dish. Cut apples 
in small cubes. Add sugar, cinnamon, chopped raisins, cur- 
rants and nuts. Mix well and put over the crackers to almost 
fill the dish, then cover all with cracker crumbs and bake for 
'20 minutes. Mrs. Katz. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB: > 83 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

The yolks of 9 egg^44 -.pound of butter, % pound of sugar, 
1/2 nutmeg, 1 tablespoon of flour. Cream butter, and sugar to- 
gether, add the well beaten, eggs, and add rose \\ater. Stir 
over the fire till thick, then bake in puff paste. 

Miss Metcalfe. 

CHAMPLAIN PUDDING. 

Butter well a small mold, sprinkle 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
over the butter, then spread a few raisins, next slices of 
buttered bread with crust removed, then raisins and bread 
alternately until mold is nearly full ; a little salt. Make a cus- 
tard of 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, i/ 2 cup sugar, flavor with vanilla 
or lemon. Pour over the bread and steam i/2 hour. Serve 
with hard sauce. Tie a greased paper over dish and cover 
lialf with water. Mrs. P. L. Clark. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Two pounds raisins, l 1 /^ pounds currants, I 1 /-, pounds 
brown sugar, 41/2 ounces candied peel (mixed), I 1 /; pounds 
Thread crumbs, I 1 /-? pounds suet, % ounce nutmeg, % ounce 
cinnamon, % ounce cloves, 2 lemons, 1 dozen eggs. Chop suet 
fine and mix all the dry ingredients together, then add the 
eggs well beaten. Boil in a mold for 6 or 7 hours. 

Louise Sawyer, 
Mrs. G. W.' Knight. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDDING. 

One pound suet, 1 pound moist sugar, 1 pound currants, 
1 pound raisins, 1 pound Sultana raisins, 1 pound mixed can- 
died peel, 1/2 pound bread crumbs. 1/2 pound flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 1 teaspoonful mixed spices, 8 eggs, brandy to suit 
taste. Chop the suet fine, stone raisins, remove stalks from 
Sultana raisins, wash and dry currants, sift flour and bread 
crumbs, chop peel, beat the eggs ten minutes, add brandy, 
mix thoroughly 25 minutes, ;put in molds and boil 8 hours. 
John Bull's own. Mrs. Chase. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup sour milk, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup raisins, 2 cups 
graham flour. 1 teaspoon soda, % teaspoon salt, 1 egg. Steam 
1 hour in cans. Sauce:' 1 egg, 1 /i; cup butter, juice of 1 lemon, 
1/2 cup boiling water. Mrs. T. F. Heth. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup suet. 1 cup molasses. 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, 
1 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 of nutmeg, pinch of 
salt, 1 cup sour milk. 1 egg. Stir thick as cake batter. Steam 
3 hours. Mrs. C. H. Lee. 



84 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

Soak 1 tablespoon gelatine in V-> cup cold water 2 minutes, 
add l /i cup boiling water. To the stiffly beaten whites of 4 
eggs add 1 cup sugar. Pour the gelatine into this and beat 
until stiff. Color pink and flavor with vanilla. Or, flavor with 
1 cup mashed and sweetened berries added while beating. 
This is also a good substitute for brick ice cream. Divide 
into 2 or 3 portions; use 1 white, add 1 tablespoon chocolate 
to 1 layer, and 1 layer may be colored, or add fruit or nuts. 
Mold in ice cream mold or deep square bread pan. Serve with 
whipped cream. Best made over night. 

Mrs. J. H. Anderson. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

Boil 1 pint of milk in double boiler, mix 1/4 cup sugar and 
1/2 cup flour, wetting with a little cold water. Stir until 
smooth. Pour sugar and flour into boiling milk; stir until it 
thickens and is smooth. Add y cup butter. Stir into the; well 
beaten yolks of 5 eggs. Add whites well beaten. Bake 30 
minutes and serve with cream sauce. "R. H. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

One tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 egg, V 2 cup 
milk, 1 cup sifted flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1/2 cup 
seeded raisins, spices if desired. Mix- in order given. Put in 
buttered cups and steam 1 hour. Serve with cream or sweet 
sauce. Mrs. A. M. Brown. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound raisins, 1 pound currants, 1 pound beef suet, 
4 tablespoons flour, 2 ounces of citron, 1 ounce candied orange 
and lemon peel, juice of 1 orange and lemon, 4 ounces of al- 
monds, 1 nutmeg, 1 pound sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 pound of 
"bread crumbs, 8 eggs, enough milk to moisten. Steam 10 
hours. Mrs. Geo. Martens. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

One can pineapple, 3 oranges chopped fine, 3 bananas, sliced, 
juice of 1 lemon, 1/2 box gelatine. Pour on the gelatine 22/2 
cups boiling water. Stir until dissolved. Add 1 cup cold 
water and 2 cups sugar. Sprinkle a little sugar over fruit 
and when the gelatine is well chilled add fruit and mix well. 
Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. I. D. Roach. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup molasses or brown sugar, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 
cup of raisins, i/o cup currants, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 l /2 cups 
of flour, 1/2 teaspoon of soda, and spices to taste. Steam 2 hours. 

Mrs. A. M. Brown. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 85_ 

MACAROON PUDDING. 

Four eggs, iy 2 pints milk, y 4 cup sugar, pinch of salt, flavor- 
ing, 12 macaroons. Make custard of inilk, eggs and sugar, 
leaving out 3 whites for meringue. Add flavoring and put in 
pudding dish into which the macaroons have been broken. 
Bake in oven until the custard sets. Cover to prevent maca- 
roons from burning. Remove from oven and spread over with 
quince jelly. Now put on meringue, heaping it up unevenly. 
After it has browned, drop bits of quince jelly over the top. 
Serves 6 people. Mrs. Arthur M. Brown. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Four tablespoons rice washed well. Place in large milk 
pan with 2 quarts of new milk, not skimmed milk, i/o cup 
sugar, pinch of salt. Bake slowly 3 hours, pressing scum that 
forms toward center until last half hour. When cold should 
be like rich cream. Mrs. E. Vehslage Rice. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Sift 1 cup of graham flour, then mix again lightly with the 
bran. Add 1 cup of sweet milk, y 2 cup of molasses, y% tea- 
spoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of soda dissolved in 2 tablespoons 
of boiling water. Beat thoroughly, then stir in l*/2 cups of 
seeded raisins. Steam 3 hours. Mrs. Helen Mitchell. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

One-fourth cup sugar, 14 cup butter, */2 cup flour, 5 eggs, 
1 pint milk. Mix flour, sugar and butter together, then add 
milk and boil smooth and thick. Have yolks well beaten 
and stir into milk, then stir in the whites beaten stiff. Bake 
in cups or shallow dish standing in water. 

Mrs. W. A. Sproul. 

STEAMED SUET AND FRUIT PUDDING. 

Two and a half cups flour, 1 teaspoonful soda, % teaspoon- 
ful salt, 1 pinch of cinnamon and 1 of nutmeg, 1 cup of chopped 
suet, 1 cup of raisins seeded and chopped, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup 
of molasses. Steam in a buttered mold for about 3 hours and 
serve with lemon sauce. Sauce : Stir together 2 eggs, butter 
the size of an egg, 1 cup of sugar, juice and grated rind of 1 
lemon. Place over a slow fire, stir till it thickens like honey. 

Mrs. P. C. Daniels. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

One cup raisins, 1 cup sour milk, 3 cups flour, 1 cup cooking 
molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, butter size of an egg, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, a little whiskey. Steam 3 hours without looking 
at it. Serve with any kind of rich sauce. 

Mrs. H. R. Bierbower. 



86 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

Put 1 pint of milk in a double boiler, melt !/o cup of 
sugar in an iron saucepan. When melted add 4 tablespoons 
of boiling water. Allow this to boil for a moment, then add 
it to the milk. Take from the fire, add a teaspoon of vanilla. 
When cool, not cold, stir in hastily 2 eggs thoroughly beaten' 
with 2 tablespoons of sugar. Pour this mixture into a mold., 
stand in a pan of boiling water and cook in oven until jellylike.. 

Mrs. F. C. Silent. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One pound figs chopped fine, 2 cups bread crumbs grated' 
fine, 1 cup sugar, 14 pound suet chopped fine, 1 egg. the grated' 
rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 dessert spoonful of molasses, 
1/2 grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful flour. Steam 3 hours and 
serve with lemon sauce. Mrs. Granville. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

One cup raw grated carrot, 1 cup raw grated potato, 
1/2 cup butter or suet, 1 cup brown sugar. 1 cup raisins, 1 cup 
flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful soda added last to the potato, 
*/> teaspoon cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon cloves, */> teaspoon nutmeg. 
Mix all together and steam 3 hours. Mrs. R. F. Thaxter. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Mix 2 heaping teaspoon's of corn starch with 1 cup of 
sugar, then stir this into 2 cups of hot water ; let it cook 5 
minutes, then add the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 
tablespoon of butter. Stir until the butter is melted and 
serve at once. Mrs. John E. Hill. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Five cups bread crumbs, 1 cup currants. 1 cup milk and 
enough water to soak up crumbs, 1 small cup sugar, 3 eggs 
beaten separately, 1 tablespoon molasses. Flavor with lemon, 
cinnamon and allspice. First, soften bread crumbs with milk 
and water, then add flavoring, molasses, currants, sugar, and 
yolks of eggs, and lastly, the whites of eggs well beaten.. 
Bake 20 minutes. Mrs. Mace. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

One cup grated carrots (raw), 1 cup grated potato (raw), 
1 cup raisins, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons melted butter. 1 heap- 
ing cup of flour, I 1 /.) teaspoons of cinnamon, l 1 /^ teaspoons of 
nutmeg, 1 teaspoon soda mixed with carrots. Steam 3 hours. 
Sauce for same : 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon corn starch. 
1 cup sugar, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 egg and 1 
pint boiling water. Cook until creamy. 

Mrs. E. C. Thomas. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 87 



'ft 



DESSERTS 



PINEAPPLE SNOW. 

One can of chopped pineapple, y 2 box of gelatine dissolved 
in 1 pint of cold water. Add juice of pineapple and let come- 
to boil. Two cups of sugar and juice of 2 lemons beaten until 
light. Pour hot gelatine over mixture and stir well, then add 
pineapple. Put in cold place and let stand until it thickens 
a little, then add whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. Beat 10 min- 
utes, mold and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. J. T, Lindley. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Butter a quart pudding dish, fill it with layers of thinly 
sliced sour apples, sprinkling sugar and cinnamon between 
every 2 layers. Pour over the whole a cupful of cold water 
and cover closely with a buttered plate. Set the pudding dish 
in a pan of hot water in the oven and cook slowly 3 hours and 
a half. When cold, it can be turned from the dish in a jellied 
mass. Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. C. H. Lee. 

JABISA (A COLD DESSERT). 

One-half cup of seedless raisins (good measure), 2 quarts of 
water, 1 cup of sugar, MJ cup corn starch, i/ 2 cup chopped 
walnuts. Boil raisins in the water until tender, add sugar, 
dissolve corn starch with a little cold water, add to mixture, 
stirring until thickened ; add walnuts. Pour into a mold, chill 
and serve with whipped cream or sweetened milk. 

Mrs. T. W. La Fetra. 

APPLE SURPRISE. 

Have rosy-cheeked, firm, tart apples of even size. Take 
core out if bad, and blossom end, but leave whole and do not 
pare. Cover with hot water, put one scoop of sugar in and 
cook until tender. Be careful to leave whole. Lift out ap- 
ples carefully. Cook syrup until it thickens and pour over 
apples. When cold, if properly cooked, is a delicious jelly. 

Mrs. Leroy Calvert. 

MAPLE MOUSSE. 

One quart of whipped cream, IV. cups of maple syrup, 4 
eggs. Pour hot syrup over beaten yolks. Cook until the 
mixture thickens in a double boiler. Cool, then add beaten 
whites and whipped cream. Pack as for ice cream and let 
stand 3 or 4 hours. -Mrs. Ralph Holmes. 



88 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 



FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Cut into small pieces 6 grapefruit, 4 oranges and 1 pine- 
apple. Cover with 1 cup of sugar and let stand over night on 
ice. In the morning add 1 cup of sherry and % cup apricot 
brandy. An hour before serving, add diced peaches, straw- 
berries and Maraschino cherries. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Mrs. Ralph Holmes. 

"FOOD FOR THE GODS." 

Six eggs beaten separately, 2 cups granulated .sugar, 8 
tablespoonfuls rolled cracker and 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der well mixed, a pinch of salt< 1 pound walnuts chopped fine, 
% pound of dates cut in small pieces. Bake in slow oven forty 
minutes. When done it may fall half, but it is all right. Cut 
in squares and serve with whipped or plain cream. A cherry 
on each square is a pretty addition. "Will serve 12 or 15 
people. Mrs. R. F. Thaxter. 

DAINTIEST OF DESSERTS. 

Mix 1 box marshmallows, quartered, 1 teacup ground nut 
meats and 1 pint whipped cream sweetened and flavored. 
Serve very cold. Mrs. E. 0. Thomas. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cupful hot water, y 2 cup butter. Boil together and 
while boiling stir in 1 cup of sifted flour. Take from stove 
and stir to a thin paste, and after this cools stir in 3 eggs 
(unbeaten) and stir all 5 minutes. Drop in tablespoons on 
a buttered tin and bake in a quick oven 25 minutes, being 
careful they do not touch each other in the pan. This amount 
makes 12 puffs. Cream for above : 1 cup milk. 1 egg. 1 cup 
sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, vanilla. Stir flour in a little of the 
milk, boil the rest. Turn this in and stir until whole thickens. 
When both this and the puffs are cool, open the puffs with a 
sharp knife and fill with the cream. Mrs. W T . J. Wade. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Heat 1 quart of milk, melt a large half cup of sugar in an 
iron pan over a hot fire. S^ir as it colors and when brown 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of water. Stir about % of it into the hot 
milk. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs 1o a light cream; add l /2 tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoofnul of vanilla and part of the hot 
milk. Mix it well and stir into 1he remainder of the milk. 
Cook it over boiling water, and when it oats the spoon and is 
smooth strain it into a dish for serving and set to cool. 
Before serving beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add to them the 
remainder of the caramel and half a cup of powdered sugar 
and beat until stiff enough to hold its shape. Pile roughly 
on the custard and serve. Miss Jean McNair. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 89 

BANANA DESSERT. 

Peel 1 dozen small ripe bananas and roll in finely chopped 
nuts. Serve with a tablespoonfnl of whipped cream over 
each, with a sprinkling of nuts on the top. 

Mrs. W. P. Taylor. 

LEMON CREAM. 

One and a half cupfuls of boiling water, 2 tablespoonfuls 
corn starch, juice of large lemon, 3 eggs, 1 cupful of sugar. 
Add corn starch moistened in cold water to boiling water and 
lemon juice. Beat yolks of eggs and sugar together and add 
to the above. Boil 5 minutes. Remove from fire and then 
stir in the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Serve cold in punch 
glasses with whipped cream on top. Miss Jean McNair. 

BRULE. 

One quart sweet milk brought to boiling point in double 
boiler, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 4 of sugar, and 1 of butter, 
mixed well, beaten into the hot milk and cooked a short while. 
Set a little back and place in a griddle over the fire 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, allowing it to melt and reach a rich brown. 
Pour quickly into the milk, beating till all is dissolved. Beat 
the yolks of 4 eggs smooth, draw milk again over fire and 
when quite hot pour over eggs. ] teaspoonful best vanilla 
and 1 cup of pecans or English walnuts. Serve in custard 
cups with whipped cream on top. Mrs. L. B. Shook. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

One-fourth cup tapioca, 2 eggs, 2 cups scalded milk, 1-3 
cup sugar, 14 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Soak 
tapioca 1 hour in enough cold water to cover; drain off, add 
to the scalded milk and cook in a double boiler until the tap- 
ioca is transparent. Add sugar and salt to the yolks of eggs 
and beat slightly all the time. Pour milk and tapioca slowly 
into the yolks of the eggs. Return mixture to fire and cook 
until it thickens, stirring constantly. Remove from the store 
and add the well beaten whites and serve. 

Mrs. I. D. Roach. ; 

MACAROON CREAM JELLY. 

Soak y box of gelatine in % cup of cold water. Beat yolks 
of 3 eggs and add 3 teaspoons of sugar. Pour over this 1/2 cup 
scalding milk. Put 2 more cupfuls of milk in a double boiler 
with the scalded milk and eggs, add a pinch of salt and stir 
until creamy. Take from fire and add soaked gelatine and 
% cup of rolled macaroons, 1 small teaspoon vanilla. Stir 
until mixed and add beaten whites of 3 eggs. Turn into mold 
and cook. Serve with whipped or plain cream. Serves 5 
people. Mrs. Asa Hall. 



_90 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

GRANDMA'S APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a good baking powder biscuit dough. Make dump- 
lings. Dredge the dripping pan with flour and set the dump- 
lings in it. Have 2 cupfuls of sugar and \%, cups of water 
and butter size of an egg. Dissolve over fire, pour over 
dumplings and bake. This is enough for 6 or 8 dumplings. 

Mrs. E. C. Thomas. 

PINEAPPLE LOAF. 

One pint of pineapple, 1 cup of sugar: put on stove and 
boil slowly while mixing; 1/2 package Knox gelatine with 1/2 
cup cold water; let stand fifteen minutes and mix with pine- 
apple. When cold enough to begin to harden, add 1 pint of 
whipped cream with whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. Set in cool 
place to harden. Mrs. Helen Mitchell. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 

Soak 2 tablespoons of tapioca over night. Next morning 
add 1 pint of milk. Cook in double boiler until transparent. 
To the beaten, yolks of 2 eggs add a /2 cup of sugar and a pinch 
of salt. Add to boiling mixture and stir until thick. Take 
from fire and stir in the stiffly beaten whites. Make a foamy 
custard. 

BANANA CREAM. 

Three bananas, cut in small pieces, !/*> cup of cold water, 
6 tablespoons sugar, rind of 1 lemon. Cook 10 minutes. Re- 
move rind and add ^ pound of hydrated gelatine (i.e., gela- 
tine soaked well in 4 times its volume of cold water). Add 
1 cup of cream, juice of 1 lemon. Beat vigorously, mold and' 
chill. Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

ANGEL CHARLOTTE. 

One tablespoon gelatine, y cup cold water. !/4 cup boiling 
water, 1 scant cup sugar, 1 pint heavy cream, !/> dozen rolled 
stale macaroons, 1 dozen marshmallows, cut fine, 2 tablespoons 
chopped candied cherries, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1/4 pound blanch- 
ed almonds. Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot water, 
add sugar. When cold, add cream, whipped stiff, and other 
ingredients. Pour into molds, or into sponge cake baskets 
which have been iced. Let stand an hour before serving. 

Mrs. V. R. Ross. 
EGG CREAM. 

Two eggs, y 4 cup sugar, juice and grated rind of 1 small 
lemon. Beat yolks till lemon-colored and thick, add sugar and 
beat again. Add lemon juice and rind and cook over boiling 
water, beating constantly until mixture is thick. Add beaten 
whites, beat thoroughly, pour into molds and chill, or set aside 
for several hours to chill. Mrs. V. R. Ross. 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 91 

VANILLA BAVARIAN CREAM. 

One-fourth cup of cold water; soak in it y 4 package gela- 
tine, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup of milk, scalded. Add to this 
1/2 cup sugar. Add next yolks of 2 eggs beaten and mixed 
with few grains of salt. Cook as a boiled custard. When it 
will coat spoon, remove and add gelatine; strain. Set in a 
pan of cracked ice and stir until about like very thick cream. 
Then fold in the whipped cream, from i/ 2 to 1 cup; add vanilla. 
May be served as a cream or molds may be lined with lady- 
fingers, etc., and filled with cream. Chocolate, coffee, pine- 
apple, strawberry or raspberry may be used instead of vanilla. 
Packed and covered it will keep nicely for a few hours if 
desired. Mrs. V. R. Ross. 

HARLEQUIN CUP. 

In the bottom of sherbet cups put a layer of marshmalllows 
cut in small pieces, then a layer of coarsely chopped walnuts, 
and then fill with pineapple cut in dice. Place on top a gener- 
ous spoonful of whipped cream and a maraschino cherry. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One quart of sugar, 1 quart of wate*r, 1 small can pineapple, 
juice of 2 lemons, whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Boil sugar and 
water to a thick syrup and add pineapple while hot. When 
cold add lemon juice, eggs and water to make 3 quarts, then 
freeze. Mrs. W. W. Heth. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Beat 3 eggs and V pound white sugar until very light. Stir 
this in 1 quart boiling milk and stir constantly until it comes 
to a boil. When cold add 1 pint of clear, strong coffee and 
1 pint of rich cream sweetened with 1 cup of white sugar. 
Mix together. Add more sugar if not sweet enough. Freeze 
same as ice cream. Mrs. W. P. Taylor. 

FROZEN DELIGHT. 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs slightly and add 2-3 cup of sugar, 
% cup of milk, vanilla flavoring, and a few grains of salt. 
Coolc in a double boiler until mixture thickens, stirring con- 
stantly, then strain. Add the whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff, 
and, when well mixed, set in a pan of water to cool, stirring 
occasionally. Beat 2-3 cup of heavy cream stiff and add to 
mixture. Fill paper cases, cornucopia shape, and sprinkle 
with macaroon dust. Set cases in ice cream freezer with tight 
cover and pack in ice and salt. Stand 2 hours before serving. 

Mrs. F. C. Silent. 



_92 HOW WE COOK IN AZUSA. 

DELICIOUS ICE CREAM. 

Five pints of cream, 1% cups, of granulated sugar, or 2 of 
powdered sugar, whites of 3 or 4 eggs, as preferred, 4 tea- 
spoons of flavoring. Put the sugar in the cream and place on 
the stove until sugar is dissolved. Flavor and let cool, then 
turn into freezer. Add beaten whites of eggs and freeze. 
Turn slowly at first until cream is thoroughly chilled, then turn 
very rapidly. When pulverized sugar is used it is not nec- 
essary to heat cream, only that it makes it more velvety. 

Mrs. Leroy Calvert. 

SHERBET. 

Seven lemons, 4 cups sugar, 4 pints water, whites of 2 
eggs, 1 small size can of grated pineapple. This makes 1 
gallon. Mrs. H. R. Bierbower. 

CRANBERRY SHERBET. 

Boil 1 quart of cranberries in 1 pint of water for 15 minutes, 
rub through a colander, add 1 pint sugar and 1/2 pint water ; let 
come to a boil. When cold, add juice of 2 lemons and freeze 
to a mush. To be served in sherbet cups with turkey instead 
oi cranberry sauce. This will serve 15 people. 

Mrs. E. C. Thomas. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, 1 cup of granulated sugar, *4 cup of 
flour, and 2 eggs. Let the milk come to a boil, beat the flour, 
sugar and eggs together, and stir into boiling milk. Cook in 
double boiler 20 minutes, stirring all the time. When cold 
add 1 quart of cream, 1 pound French candied cherries, 1 cup 
of sherry and ] dozen crushed macaroons. Sufficient for 12. 

R. H. 




/s Sign 



You find the Home of 

The Best Patterns Made 



Ladies' Home Journal Patterns 

Sold by us exclusively in Azusa Valley 

^Department Stoie 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 93 



NOUGAT. 

Three and one-half cups white sugar, 1. cup Wild Rose 
syrup, !/2 cup water. Boil until it threads and then pour 
slowly into the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Beat until stiff. 
Just before pouring into the dish add 1 cup of chopped walnuts. 

-Mrs. W. W. Heth. 

HOME-MADE MARSHMALLOWS. 

Two slightly rounded tablespoons of Knox's gelatine, 2 
cups or 1 pint of granulated sugar and a few grains of salt, 
with flavoring to taste. Soak the gelatine in 8 tablespoons 
cold water. Heat the sugar in 8 tablespoons water until dis- 
solved. Add gelatine to syrup and let stand until partially ' 
cool. Add salt arid flavoring and beat with a whip until too 
-stiff to beat any longer. Then beat with a spoon until soft 
enough to settle into a sheet. Put the candy into powdered 
.sugar 1 pan until ^2 inch deep. Let cool. Turn out on bread 
board covered with powdered sugar, cut in cubes, roll in sugar. 

Mrs. F. C. Silent. 

FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar, y 2 cup milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, 4 tablespoons chocolate. Boil till it reaches soft 
ball stage, remove from fire, beat till creamy. When firm, cut 
in squares. Fannie Granville. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Three cups sugar, 12 tablespoons water; cook until just 
before it spins a thread; 1 package Knox's gelatine dissolved 
in 9 tablespoons cold water. Pour syrup into gelatine, beat 
until stiff; flavoring. Pour into pan having been dusted with 
corn starch. Cut in squares. Roll in powdered sugar. 

Emma Rrunjes. 

SEAFOAM. 

Boil 2 cups of sugar with 1 cup of corn syrup until a little 
dropped in water will form a hard, crisp ball. Have whites 
of 2 eggs beaten until stiff. Pour the boiling candy over these, 
whipping constantly, until it becomes thick and stiff. Drop 
'by spoonfuls on buttered paper, forming peaked, irregular 
shapes. By adding desired flavors, excellent mints may be 
thus made. Nut meats also add to this candy. 

Mrs. V. R. Ross. 



9V HOvHltte OOK: IN AZOSA. 



DIVINITY. 

Two cups white sugar, % cup syrup (Karo corn syrup), 
y% cup water. Cook until it spins a_thread. Stir Jn whites 
of 2 eggs, beaten well. Just before ready to pour into pan, 
stir in 2 cups chopped walnuts. Vanilla flavoring. 

Emma Brunjes. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN TAFFY. 

Put 2 tablespoons of butter into a granite saucepan. When 
melted, add i/2 cup of vinegar and 2 cups granulated sugar. 
Stir until sugar is dissolved, and only occasionally afterward. 
Boil until brittle in cold water. AVhen cool enough, pull. 

Mrs. Samuel A. Ellis. 

COFFEE FUDGE. 

Two pounds sugar, 1. cupful cream, 2 ounces butter. 1-3 cup- 
ful coffee. Cook all together until it strings from a fork. 
Add % cup broken walnut meats and beat, pour into buttered 
tins. When cool, cut into squares. Mrs. Chase. 

NUT FUDGE. 

Two cups white sugar, 1 cup chocolate, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup cream. Boil slowly together until it hardens on drop- 
ping into water. Pour into platter, add 1 cup nuts (walnuts), 
chopped, and flavoring. Beat until it thickens, cool, cut up 
and serve. H. Winona Eldred. 

CARAMEL SQUARES. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, butter size of an egg. 
Boil 15 minutes, stir after taken from stove till creamy, then 
put on buttered tins and cut in squares. 

Fannie Granville. 
PENOCHE. 
Two cups brown sugar, 1/2 cup milk, 1 cup chopped nuts, 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Boil until it reaches 
soft ball stage, remoA r e from fire and beat till creamy. When 
firm, cut in squares. r Fannie Granville. 



Phone: Home 2042 Lock fox 262 

PREDA. FRYE 



C 



ONTRAGTOR and BUILDER 



Plans and Estimates Furnished on Application 
Prompt Attention Given to All Business 



AZUSA WOMAN'S CLUB. 



95 



BEVERAGES 



TEA PUNCH. 

Put 1 tablespoon of Ceylon tea in a pitcher and pour over 
it 1 quart of boiling water. Cover and let stand 10 minutes, 
strain and add a pound of sugar, juice of 6 lemons and 2 
oranges. Stand aside until very cold. Add chipped ice when 
;serving. Mrs. John E. Hill. 

EGG-NOG. 

Beat the yolk of 1 egg slightly, add 1 sefljnt tablespoon 
sugar and a small pinch of salk Then add slowly IV-j table- 
spoons sherry or port wine and pour on gradually 2-3 cup cold 
milk. Strain. Cover with the stiffly beaten white of egg and 
.a flavoring of grated nutmeg. Mrs. John E. Hill. 

DELICIOUS PUNCH. I 

The juice of 2 dozen good-sized lemons and of 6 good- 
sized oranges; also the juice off 1 large can of pineapple; 
sugar, about 6 cupfuls (you will have to use the sugar accord- 
ing to taste). This will make enough for 50 people. Do not 
add any other fruit flavoring to this nor any extra oranges. 
'Take this recipe exact and you will like it. Add water to suit. 

Mrs. M. J. Coffin. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Put on a kettle of grapes (washed and picked) in propor- 
tion, 2 quarts of water to 6 quarts grapes. Cook until skins 
break well. Skim well, strain through cheese cloth. Put on 
fire and boil 5 minutes. Then bottle and seal over the corks 
with sealing wax. 

SUGAR FDR LEMONADE. 

In making lemonade, it will be found to be an economy of 
time and sugar if a syrup is made of the sugar and part of the 
water. If the sugar is put in the pitcher with the lemon juice 
and water, only a part of it dissolves. The rest is usually 
thrown away after the lemonade is gone. 



& 






T 



, 

/ 



. 

v .! ' r 



'i 

'A^ ,.::/, /^X 






1 



