
Recipes 



elSie B, Will 




ni:';i:i]n 



;jii'- :; i;.!::? 




Th/A f 



Copyright 1^^ 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



us TWO 

COOK BOOK 



Containing Tested Recipes 



FOR 



TWO PERSONS 



JENNIE (VWILLIAMS 



BARSE & HOPKINS 

NEW YORK 






COPYRIGHT, 1909 
By BAR8E & HOPKINS. 



48yb2 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Soups 9 

11. Fish 27 

III. Meats 51 

IV. Poultry and Game 83 

V. Entrees 109 

VI. Vegetables 127 

VII. Eggs 161 

VIII. Beverages 179 

IX. Breads, Cakes, etc 199 

X. Desserts 251 

XI. Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 287 

XII. Miscellaneous 311 



PEEFACE 

^^They are all prepared for fatniliesP 

Have you not often heard that remark made by 
the young housewife when speaking of the legion of 
Cook Books ah-eady on tlie market ? Well, that is 
just the reason why I have undertaken and now offer 
to the public tlie " Us Two Cook Book." Every recipe 
has been carefully estimated and tested — the ingre- 
dients reduced so as to supply the requirements of 
two. Soon the young wife learns that it is impossible 
to live on Love, and in the following pages are 
presented in plain words the way to provide econom- 
ically or lavishly that which more effectually sustains 
life. 

Jennie B. Williams. 

Toronto, July 1, 1909. 



us TWO COOK BOOK 



SOUPS. 



TOMATO SOUP— WITH CREAM. 

One pint of tomatoes, one pint of water (or more 
if it boils down too much), two bay leaves, one very 
small onion cut fine, a dash of red pepper, dash of 
cloves, pinch of salt. Let all stew an hour or more. 
Strain and thicken with flour to the consistency of 
bisque. When ready serve a tablespoonful of 
whipped cream in each plate. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

One-half pint of canned tomatoes, one-half pint of 
milk, one heaping teaspoon ful of butter, quarter 
teaspoonful of soda. Cook tomatoes a few minutes 
and then strain them, put on the stove again, adding 
the butter, salt and pepper, and a little of the soda, 
and thicken with flour until quite thick; heat the 
milk separately in a double-boiler until boiling hot; 
when time to serve, add the remainder of the soda 
to the tomatoes and a little minced parsley. Lastly 
add the boiling milk. Serve in heated soup bowls. 

9 



lo Us Two Cook Book 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak one pint of beans over night, and in the 
morning pour off the water and put on a pint of 
fresh water. Let boil ten or fifteen minutes and 
drain ; then pour on one quart of cold water, and add 
a small piece of bacon or side pork. When the beans 
begin to get tender, remove enough for a nice dish of 
baked beans. Mash the rest of the beans, and season 
with salt and pepper. Add one dessert-spoonful of 
flour and butter rubbed smooth. Put through a 
colander and pour into a tureen over toast cut into 
dice. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Half a pint or half a can of peas, one pint of 
water, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, a pinch of salt, a pinch of white pepper, 
half a teaspoonful of sugar, half a pint of milk or 
cream. Wash the peas and cook them in one pint of 
boiling water until soft, mash them with the water 
in which they were cooked, strain, and add the re- 
mainder of the liquid. Make a white sauce and cook 
until it is like thick cream. If the peas are fresh 
some of the pods may be cooked with them. 

STOCK. 

Get a small beef shank, add two quarts of cold 
water. Let it come to a boil. Simmer from four to 
six hours. Season, strain and cool, remove grease. 
It is then ready for any kind of soup. 



Soups II 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

One quart plain stock. Boil this stock with 
chopped carrots, parsnips, potatoes and onions for 
one-half hour. A half teaspoonful of extract of 
beef improves the colour and adds richness to the 
flavour. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Put into a kettle the neck, lower parts of the 
legs, and the wing tips of a large fat fowl. Dredge 
with flour, and add a pint of cold water. After 
letting it soak three-quarters of an hour, simmer 
slowly, keeping the kettle closely covered and let 
the meat drop from the bones. Strain and put the 
broth back on the stove, adding a cupful more of 
water to the bones and cook a good half hour longer. 
Add this liquor to the broth. (There should be 
a pint of the broth.) Season with salt and pepper, 
and a little minced parsley, according to taste. 
Serve with tiny squares of toasted bread browned 
in the oven. The remainder of the chicken can be 
used for fricassee. 

TOMATO SOUP— PLAIN. 

Skin four tomatoes and put in soup kettle. Pour 
over them one quart of rich stock or water. Let 
simmer one hour ; run through a sieve, return to the 
kettle; season with salt, pepper, cloves, and garlic. 
Serve soup as soon as it boils up second time. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 
Half a cupful of split peas, one and one-half 



12 Us Two Cook Book 

quarts of water, one tablespoonful of chopped onion, 
one heaping tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of 
pepper, one and one-half cupfuls of milk. Wash 
the peas and soak them over night in one pint of 
cold water. In the morning drain and rinse thor- 
oughly, add quart and a half of cold water and the 
chopped onion. Cook slowly until soft, rub through 
a strainer. Make a white sauce, add this liquid to 
it and cook until it is of the proper consistency. 
Cooking a small ham bone with the peas improves 
the flavour. 

CREAM OF CELERY. 

Cut the outside stalks of a bunch of celery in 
small pieces; boil until tender, keeping covered with 
water; when boiled tender rub through a gravy 
strainer; add one pint and one-quarter of milk, tea- 
spoonful of butter, salt, and stir in slowly a little 
flour paste; let boil a little and serve hot. 

VEAL OR MUTTON BROTH. 

Take a scrag-end of mutton (one pound), put it in 
a saucepan, with one quart of cold water, and an 
ounce of pearl barley or rice. When it is coming to 
a boil, skim it well, then add half a teaspoonful of 
salt; let it boil until half reduced, then strain it, and 
take off all the fat, and it is ready for use. This is 
excellent for an invalid. If vegetables are liked in 
this broth, take one slice of turnip, one carrot, and 
one onion, cut them in shreds, and boil them in the 
broth half an hour. In that case, the barley may be 
served with the vegetables and broth. 



Soups 13 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Boil one pound of coarse lean mutton cut in small 
pieces in one quart of hot water. Add one-half of 
a sliced onion. Add one-half cup of rice which has 
soaked for one hour. Boil three hours slowly. 
Season. Strain and serve. 

SHRIMP BISQUE. 

Stir one heaping tablespoonful of flour with 
enough milk or cream to miake a paste ; put into the 
saucepan one-half pint of milk — good measure; 
the yolk of one egg well beaten; tablespoonful of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste; add one-half cup 
chopped shrimps the last thing. Serve hot. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Drain all the liquor from one-half pint of oysters. 
Put it in a pan and let it simmer. Let one pint of 
rich milk come to a boil. Add a fair sized piece of 
butter, a pinch of salt and pepper, and pour in 
oyster liquor. Let it boil up once and add the 
oysters. Do not let them remain on the stove more 
than two or three minutes. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Boil one quart of water, then put in two or three 
strips of bacon, two chopped onions, a pinch of 
salt and pepper. Peel and slice one-half pint of 
raw potatoes. Boil the whole until the potatoes are 
reduced to a pulp. 



14 Us Two Cook Book 

OX TAIL SOUP. 

Cut the ox tail into joints and fry until brown 
in good drippings. Remove the joints from the 
drippings, and slice one onion and one carrot into 
the same drippings and fry until done; tie them 
with thyme and parsley in a cheese-cloth bag, and 
drop into a soup pot containing two quarts of 
water. Put in the ox tail and one pound of lean 
beef cut in strips. Grate over them a carrot, salt 
and pepper to taste. Boil slowly for three hours. 
Thicken with brown flour moistened with water. 
Strain, and boil for an additional three minutes. 

BEEF BOUILLON. 

Boil one pound of beef cut in pieces in one quart 
of water. Add more if it boils away too much. 
Let it simmer for a while and then strain through 
a fine sieve and season with pepper and salt. 

BEEF TEA. 

One pound of lean beef, cut into small pieces. Put 
into a glass canning-jar without a drop of water; 
cover tightly, and set in a pot of cold water. Heat 
gradually to a boil, and continue this steadily for 
three or four hours, until the meat is like white 
rags, and the juice all drawn out. Season with salt 
to taste, and when cold, skim. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Boil until tender, one pint of asparagus, cut in 
inch lengths, in one pint of water. Rub through a 



Soups 15 

colander and return to the water in which it was 
boiled. Heat one pint of milk, stir into it one 
tablespoonful of butter, with one tablespoonful of 
flour and cook a few moments. Season, and pour 
into asparagus. Let all boil up well, and pour into 
a tureen or plates or over toasted bread, cut into 
dice. Serve at once. 

KICE BALLS. 

Rice balls make a pretty company garnish for 
soup to be used instead of plain rice. Mash a cup- 
ful of cold boiled rice, and mix with a batter made 
of one beaten egg, a tablespoonful of flour, with a 
seasoning of salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Stir smooth and make into balls not larger than a 
small marble. These are dropped into the soup just 
before it is sent to the table. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a smooth 
paste, with a little melted butter, pepper and salt, 
to these add one raw egg, beat in light, add enough 
flour to hold the paste together, make into balls, 
with floured hands, and set in a cool place until just 
before your soup comes off, when you put them in 
carefully and boil one minute. 



i6 Us Two Cook Book 



Soups 



17 



1 8 Us Two Cook Book 



Soups 



19 



20 Us Two Cook Book 



Soups 



21 



22 Us Two Cook Book 



Soups 



23 




25 



Fish 27 

FISH. 

Fish are good when the gills are red, eyes are 
full, and the body of the fish firm and stiff. After 
washing, they should be allowed to remain for a 
short time in salt water sufficient to cover them ; be- 
fore cooking, wipe dry, dredge lightly with flour, and 
season with salt and pepper, Salmon trout and 
other small fish are usually fried or broiled. Large 
fish should be put in a cloth, tied closely with twine, 
and placed in cold water, when they may be put 
over the fire to boil. When fish are baked, prepare 
the fish the same as for boiling, and put in the 
oven on a wire gridiron, over a dripping pan. 

FISH COOKED IN FAT. 

Season with salt and pepper and cover with equal 
amounts of corn meal and flour, or crumbs and egg. 
Cook in fat saute. Drain on paper. 

FISH COOKED IN WATER. 

Steam fish over gently boiling water, or place it 
in a piece of muslin, tie the edges together and put 
the fish into boiling water, boil five minutes, then 
add one tablespoonful of salt and cook at a lower 
temperature until done. Serve with a sauce. 

TO FRY FISH. 

Clean the fish, wipe dry, rub a little salt inside 
and sprinkle with a little pepper after putting them 
in the pan, but never roll them in flour; as it does 



28 Us Two Cook Book 

not improve them, and it is not necessary. Never 
allow fish to soak in the fat. The fat should be 
perfectly hot when the fish is put in and kept at the 
same temperature. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Small fish can be broiled whole by cutting off the 
head and tail and splitting down the back. Large 
fish should be cut into inch strips. All fish should 
be thoroughly cleaned and dried with a towel ; oily 
fish need only salt and pepper, but dry fish plenty 
of butter. The broiler should be well greased and 
the fish allowed to broil from five to twenty minutes> 
according to the thickness. Thin fish can be placed 
nearer the fire and broiled more rapidly than thick 
fish. Remove from the broiler to the platter with- 
out breaking; spread again with butter; serve with 
tartar, tomato or curry sauce; garnish with slices 
of lemon. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Procure a fish of two or three pounds, season with 
one tablespoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper. Rub the seasoning well in and outside the 
fish; place the fish with two sliced onions on a large 
dish; sprinkle over the juice of one large lemon; 
cover and set aside for one hour, then lay the fish 
in a baking-pan with four thin slices of pork under 
it, and three slices of pork on top. Pour one table- 
spoonful of melted butter over and bake forty-five 
minutes. Serve in a hot dish garnished with lemon 
cut into quarters, and parsley. It can be baked 



Fish 29 

without the onion or lemon, but these improve its 
flavour. If salt pork is not at hand, grease the pan 
thoroughly with lard and lay a sheet of nice brown 
paper, cut to the size of the pan, in the bottom. 
Grease the paper thoroughly and lay the fish upon 
it. Baked in this way, it can easily be taken from 
the pan without breaking it at all, and the trouble 
of cleaning the pan afterwards, which is not a little, 
when the baking is done in the usual manner, is 
entirely avoided. 

STUFFING FOR FISH. 

Two cupfuls of bread crumbs, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of white pepper, 
one teaspoonful onion juice, one teaspoonful minced 
parsley, one teaspoonful capers or chopped pickle, 
one-fourth cupful melted butter. Mix in the order 
given. 

FRIED BASS. 

Clean and cut your fish in pieces; season with salt 
and pepper and dredge in flour. Fry to a light brown 
in lard and butter with a strip of bacon added to 
the grease. White fish, trout, and many others can 
be cooked in like manner. 

BAKED BLUE FISH. 

Wash and clean your fish ; stuff and sew or bind 
with strips of cloth well buttered. Place in drip- 
ping pan with three tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
and a cup of water. Bake thirty-five or forty min- 
utes, basting often. Use stuffing if desired. 



30 Us Two Cook Book 

CODFISH BALLS. 

The purified, shredded codfish, to be bought by 
the box from auy grocer, is best for these. Soak 
it for two or three hours, then boil for fifteen min- 
utes in water that has had a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar stirred into it and spread upon a sieve to get 
cold. Allow to each cupful of fish half as much 
mashed potato whipped to a soft cream. Mix them 
together well, make very hot over the fire and beat 
in a frothed egg for every cupful of fish. Season 
with pepper. Let the mixture get quite cold, make 
into balls, roll in flour, and set in a cold place to 
stiffen. If you wish them for breakfast you will 
do well to make them the night before. Roll again 
in flour and fry in deep fat to a yellow-brown. 

COD OR SALMON STEAKS. 

Season and fry one or two cod or salmon steaks, 
and garnish with parsley. Two slices is usually 
enough for three persons. 

TO BROIL MACKEREL. 

Grease a broiler well ; place the fish over a good 
fire; brown on both sides; place on platter and 
season with a little butter and pepper; or place the 
fish in a buttered dripping pan, skin side down, bak- 
ing a nice brown; this may be best in the above 
manner and add a few spoonfuls of rich cream. 

I^INNAN HADDIE. 

Parboil the fish for about eight or ten minutes; 
place on a buttered broiler with a bit of butter on 



Fish 31 

the fish as a coating. Broil to a rich brown and 
serve hot with a thick cream dressing to which has 
been added chopped hard-boiled eggs and parsley. 

FRIED PICKEREL. 

Clean, wipe dry, roll in salted and peppered flour, 
or dip in egg and roll in seasoned cracker-dust, and 
fry quickly in deep cottolene or oil brought slowly 
to the boil. 

BROOK TROUT. 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish, handling tenderly, 
not to mar its beauty or flavour, roll in salted and 
peppered flour, and fry in deep fat to a delicate 
brown. Serve up on folded tissue paper in a hot- 
water dish, if you have one. The simpler the season- 
ing the better. 

SALMON IN A MOULD. 

Take the contents of a can of salmon, two eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one-quarter 
cupful of bread crumbs, salt and pepper, and a 
little minced parsley. Rub the butter in the salmon, 
put the crumbs in the beaten eggs. Mix all thor- 
oughly and add seasoning. Put into a buttered 
mould and steam one hour. 

Sauce. — One-half cupful of hot milk thickened 
with one teaspoonful of corn starch ; add one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of butter, liquor from the salmon, 
one egg, one tablespoon ful of tomato catsup. Put 
the egg in last and very carefully. 



32 Us Two Cook Book 

BAKED SALMON. 

Take the contents of a can of salmon, add two 
well beaten eggs, one-half cup milk, four soda 
crackers broken in small pieces, pepper and salt. 
Pour into buttered granite pan and bake a light 
brown. 

CREAMED SALMON. 

Take the contents of a can of salmon; remove 
skin, bones and oil ; break into flakes. Melt one 
tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour; add gradually. two cups of 
milk, and season with salt and pepper, a dash of 
mace and a little minced parsley. Add the salmon 
and cook for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. 
Serve on squares of toast. 

SALMON LOAF. 

Pick the contents of a can of salmon into small 
pieces and remove bones; add one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, two beaten eggs, one cupful of bread 
crumbs, one cupful of milk, salt and pepper to 
taste. Bake in a buttered pan for one hour. Turn 
loaf out on platter, and pour over it cream sauce 
made as follows: Heat one pint of milk to the 
boiling point; add two tablespoonfuls of corn starch 
and one of butter. Season with salt and pepper, 
and just before removing from the fire, add one well 
beaten egg. 

SCALLOPED SALMON. 
Break into pieces the contents of a can of sal- 



Fish 33 

mon and put into a buttered baking dish in alter- 
nate layers with bread or cracker crumbs. Cover 
with a white sauce. Finish with a layer of bread 
crumbs with bits of butter on top and bake to a 
rich brown. 

TURBOT. 

One pint of milk, three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, cooked together; season 
with salt and pepper, one teaspoon ful of onion juice, 
and a little minced parsley. Place in a baking dish 
a layer of shredded fish and the sauce alternately; 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and brown in a moder- 
ate oven. 

SHRED CODFISH. 

Flake very fine a half pound of best codfish. 
Wash in two waters and squeeze as tight as possible. 
Put into a saucepan with a piece of butter as large 
as an egg, and two heaping spoonfuls sifted flour. 
Mix the butter, flour and fish thoroughly together, 
add very slowly two or three cupfuls boiling water, 
let come to a boil and serve. Add, if you choose, 
just before removing from the stove, an egg well 
beaten. 

SHAD ROE. 

Place roe in salt water for a day; wipe dry; rub 
over it melted butter. Boil five minutes until well 
cooked. Cut it open; dip in flour and fry in hot 
pork fat. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. 

Thoroughly clean the fish ; cut off the head or not, 



34 Us Two Cook Book 

as preferred. Cut out the backbone from the head 
to within two inches of the tail, and stuff with the 
following: Soak stale bread in water, squeeze dry; 
cut in pieces a large onion, fry in butter, chop fine. 
Add the bread, two ounces of butter, salt, pepper 
and a little parsley or sage. Heat through, and 
when taken off the fire, add the yolks of two beaten 
eggs; stuff the fish rather full, sew up, and wrap 
with several coils of white tape. Rub the fish over 
slightly with butter, just cover the bottom of a bak- 
ing pan with hot water, and place the fish in it, 
standing back upward, and bent in the form of an 
S. Serve with the following dressing: Reduce the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste 
with two tablespoonfuls of good olive oil ; stir in 
half a teaspoonful of mustard, and add pepper and 
vinegar to taste. 

BROILED WHITE FISH— FRESH. 

Wash and drain the fish; sprinkle with pepper and 
lay with the inside down upon the gridiron, and 
broil over fresh bright coals. When a nice brown, 
turn for a moment on the other side, then take up 
and spread with butter. This is a very nice way of 
broiling all kinds of fish, fresh or salted. A little 
smoke under the fish adds to its flavour. This may 
be made by putting two or three cobs under the 
gridiron. 

EELS. 

Skin and parboil them ; cleanse the back bone of 
all coagulations; cut them in pieces about three 



Fish 35 

inches in length; dip in flour and cook in pork fat, 
brown. 

SMELTS. 

Clean the smelts by drawing them between the 
finger and thumb, beginning at the tail. This will 
press out the insides at the opening at the gills. 
Wash them and drain in a colander; salt well and 
dip in beaten egg and bread or cracker crumbs. Dip 
first in the egg and then roll in the crumbs. Fry in 
boiling fat deep enough to float them. They should 
be a handsome brown in two minutes and a half. 
Take them up and place them on a sheet of brown 
paper for a few minutes to drain, then serve on a hot 
dish. Garnish with parsley and a few slices of 
lemon. 

STEWED FROGS' LEGS. 

Skin, lay in milk for fifteen minutes; roll in pep- 
pered and salted flour, and saute in hot butter for 
three minutes. Cover (barely) with hot water, and 
stew tender. Twenty minutes should suffice. Heat 
half a cupful of cream to boiling, stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour, boil up, and turn 
into the saucepan where the frogs' legs are simmer- 
ing. Season with pepper, salt, and a little chopped 
parsley. Cook gently for three minutes and serve. 

FRIED FROGS' LEGS. 

Only the hind legs are eatable. They are very 
good, having a curious resemblance to the most 
delicate spring chicken. Skin, wash, and lay in 



36 Us Two Cook Book 

milk for fifteen minutes. Without wiping them, 
pepper and salt, and coat with flour. Fry in deep 
boiling fat to a light brown. Or — Wipe ofif the 
milk, dip in egg and pounded cracker, and fry. 

FISH LEFT OVER. 

Make one cup tomato sauce by cooking one tea- 
spoonful of minced onion in one teaspoonful of but- 
ter until it is yellow; add a level tablespoonful of 
flour and when well mixed and bubbling, stir it into 
a cup of hot stewed tomatoes. When it has cooked 
a little and is thick, season to taste. Take one part 
each of cold boiled fish and macaroni with one- 
quarter cup of cheese; cut into small bits one cold 
hard-boiled egg. Strain the tomato sauce over 
them and one-quarter cup of fine cracker crumbs 
moistened in one-third cup of melted butter on the 
top. Bake till brown. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

Season two cupfuls of boiled or baked fish with 
one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a dash of 
cayenne pepper and a sprinkling of grated nutmeg; 
bind together with sauce made as follows : one-half 
cup of milk, one tablespoonful of flour, one table- 
spoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Add to 
the fish and cook for five minutes. Remove from 
the fire and when cold shape into oblong forms 
and fry in deep boiling lard, first dipping into a 
beaten egg. Garnish with a sprig of celery in the 
top of each croquette. 



Fish 37 

BROILED LOBSTER. 

First remove stomach and intestinal vein. Split 
the meat of the tail and claws, dredge in flour, 
season, cover all the meat with butter and broil 
over a hot fire until light brown; or broil in shells, 
dividing tail and claws into two parts and broiling 
in half shell on meat side for eight minutes, on shell 
side for ten minutes. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. 

To a can of lobster, add a tablespoon of butter, 
pepper and salt and a small tablespoonful of flour. 
Make patty shells the same as for Oyster Patties; 
fill with the lobster and serve hot. 

SCALLOPED LOBSTER. 

Butter a baking dish; cover bottom with cracker 
crumbs, and then a layer of lobster meat carefully 
picked over. Add bits of butter, salt and pepper, 
then a layer of cracker crumbs; alternate with 
meat and crumbs until the pan is filled. Put bits 
of butter over the top; add three cups of hot milk 
and bake an hour. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

To one-half tablespoonful of melted butter, put 
in a saucepan, add one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour; cook a few minutes; stir in gradually one cup 
of milk; season with salt, pepper and one-half tea- 
spoonful of celery salt. Wash one-half pint of 
oysters; boil them in their own liquor until plump; 
then drain and pour over them the sauce. 



38 Us Two Cook Book 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

For one glass, take the juice of one-half lemon, 
one-half teaspoonful of grated horseradish, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of tomato catsup, eight drops 
of tobasco sauce. Put this mixture into cocktail 
glass in the centre of a plate and trim plate with 
parsley. Fill plate around the glass with chopped 
ice, on which lay six good oysters and two or three 
stuffed olives among the oysters, and a slice of 
lemon. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Wash and dry carefully the oysters; salt and 
pepper. Roll each oyster in cracker crumbs; dip 
in beaten eggs; roll again in cracker crumbs. Fry 
in deep lard until browned. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Take enough oysters for two; put them in a pan 
with butter, pepper and salt, a little flour and let 
them simmer for a few minutes. Cream dressing 
as for Creamed Oysters may be used instead of 
the butter, flour, pepper and salt. Cut oysters into 
bits. Make shells of rich paste in patty shell pans; 
and bake in quick oven in muffin pans; fill the 
patties with oysters and serve hot. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put a layer of rolled crackers in a well-buttered 
pudding dish, and a layer of oysters drained; sea- 
son with salt, and pepper and bits of butter. Con- 



Fish 39 

tinue this way until the dish is full. Then pour over 
one cupful of milk. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

EGG SAUCE. 

One cup of drawn butter, one hard-boiled egg; 
chop white fine and add to sauce; grate yolk over 
sauce. 

SAUCE TO SERVE WITH RAW OYSTERS. 

One-half teaspoonful each of pepper and salt, half 
of one onion grated, one dessert-spoonful of vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of olive oil, one-half teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, juice of half a lemon. 

CANADIAN FISH SAUCE. 

Beat one-half teacupful of butter to a cream ; add 
the yolks of two eggs, juice of half a lemon, salt and 
a very little cayenne pepper. Put into double boiler. 
Beat with an egg beater until it begins to thicken, 
then add a half cup of boiling water heating con- 
tinually. When of consistency of thick custard it 
is done. It will require five or seven minutes to 
cook, if water boils hard. 

PROPER RELISHES TO ACCOMPANY FISH. 

Boiled Fish Drawn Butter or Egg Sauce 

Broiled or Baked Fish 

Cream or Canadian Fish Sauce 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel Stewed Gooseberries 

Broiled Shad Boiled Rice and Salad 

Fresh Salmon Green Peas and Cream Sauce 

Salt Fish. Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 



40 Us Two Cook Book 



Fish 



41 



42 Us Two Cook Book 



Fish 



43 



44 Us Two Cook Book 



Fish 



45 



46 Us Two Cook Book 



Fish 




. . y 



m 

f >- '••■- 1 If. 





me;at 


Some ha'e meat 




and anna rat 


And 


some wad eat 


m 


thdt want it; 


iBut 


WE ha'e meat 




and WB can eat, 


And 


5ae the Lord 




bp thankit. 



6uriu. 










49 



Meats 5l 

MEATS. 

GENERAL RULES FOR SELECTING AND 
COOKING MEATS. 

In the selection of meat it is most essential that 
we understand how to choose it; in beef it should be 
a smooth, fine grain, of a clear bright-red colour, 
the fat white, and will feel tender when pinched 
with the fingers. Will also have abundant kidney 
fat or suet. The most choice pieces for roast are 
the sirloin, fore and middle ribs. 

Veal, to be good, should have the flesh firm and 
dry, fine grained and of a delicate pinkish colour, 
and plenty of kidney fat; the joints stiff. 

Mutton is good when the flesh is a bright red, 
firm and juicy and a close grain, the fat firm and 
white. 

Pork, if young, the lean will break on being 
pinched smooth when nipped with the fingers, also 
the skin will break and dent; if the rind is rough 
and hard it is old. 

All salt meat should be put on in cold water, that 
the salt may be extracted while cooking. Fresh 
meat, which is boiled to be served with sauces at 
the table, should be put to cook in boiling water; 
when the outer fibres contract, the inner juices are 
preserved. 

For making soup, put the meat over in cold water, 
to extract the juices for the broth. 

In boiling meats, if more water is needed, add 
that which is hot, and be careful to keep the water 
on the meat constantly boiling. 



52 Us Two Cook Book 

Remove the scum when it first begins to boil. 
The more gently meat boils, the more tender it will 
become. Allow twenty minutes for boiling each 
pound of fresh meat. 

Roast meats require a brisk fire. Baste often. 
Fifteen minutes is required for roasting each pound 
of fresh meat. The variation in roasted meats con- 
sists simply in the method of preparing them to 
cook, before putting them in the oven. Some are 
to be larded, some stuffed with bread dressing, and 
others plain, only seasoning with j)epper and salt. 

A piece of red pepper, cooked in a boiled dinner, 
is very nice. 

It is a difficult matter to get roasts small enough 
for two people. An ordinary roast lasts quite too 
long to be enjoyable even though it can be used in 
various ways; as sliced cold meat; cut up in squares 
and warmed in the gravy and called "fricassee"; 
meat pie, croquettes, hash or hash on toast. 

ROAST BEEF. 

If possible have a Lisk roasting pan for your 
roast as this pan saves the trouble of basting. Very 
little water is necessary and some cooks prefer no 
water at all. Select a rib roast as it is better than 
the loin. Dredge with salt and pepper; roast in a 
moderately hot oven. Two or three ribs are suf- 
ficient for two persons. 

FRIED BEEFSTEAK. 

One slice of Porterhouse steak with undercut is 
sufificient for two persons. Pot suet or butter Is 



Meats 53 

preferred in the pan, and when smoking hot put in 
the steak and fry according to taste. Season with 
salt and pepper. Make a gravy from the juices left 
in the pan by adding a very little hot water; let 
it boil up and add a tablespoonful of flour and stir 
until thoroughly smooth. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Have your steak cut from one inch to one and one- 
half inches thick. Wipe and put on a well greased 
broiler for ten minutes, turning often. When done 
season with salt, pepper and butter; garnish with 
parsley or celery leaves. This is the ideal way to 
sei've beefsteaks. 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS. 

Roll in flour one pound of sirloin steak; season 
with salt and pepper and fry in butter or lard. Put 
a large piece of butter and lard in another frying 
pan, add the desired quantity of sliced onions; cover 
and fry to a light brown colour. Pour over the steak 
before it goes to the table. 

FLANK STEAK. 

Butter the surface of steak, put on the broiler and 
let remain until well done, turning often. Season 
with salt and pepper and garnish with parsley. 
This is considered by many to be the choicest of 
steaks and least expensive. 



54 Us Two Cook Book 

HAMBURGER STEAK. 

Take half a pound of round steak without any 
fat or bones or stringy pieces; mince it very fine. 
Miuce one small onion and mix well with the meat. 
Season with salt and pepper, and make into cakes 
the size of a biscuit and quite flat. Have ready a 
frying pan with a teaspoonful of lard and one table- 
spoonful of butter and let it get boiling hot, then 
put in the steak and fry a nice brown on both sides. 
Garnish with parsley around the edge of the platter 
and slices of lemon on top of the meat. 



BROILED PORTERHOUSE STEAK WITH 
MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Take one-half can of mushrooms, drain off every 
drop of liquor; then put them in a saucepan with 
one cup of sweet cream and one tablespoonful of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Let them simmer 
gently for ten minutes, and when the steak is ready 
to be served pour the mushrooms over it. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

This is a very nice accompaniment to a roast of 
beef; the ingredients are: half cup of milk, one egg, 
white and yolk beaten separately, pinch salt, and 
half a teaspoon of baking powder sifted through 
half a cup of flour. It should be mixed very smooth, 
about the consistency of cream. Twenty minutes 
before roast is ready, dip some of the drippings from 
the pan into an ordinary biscuit tin, pour the pud- 



Meats 55 

ding into it, set into hot oven. This I consider 
much better than the old way of baking the pudding 
under the meat. 

POT ROAST. 

Get a three pound pot roast. Trim the meat 
carefully. Put one tablespoonful of lard into the 
kettle and when boiling hot, put in the meat. Brown 
on all sides, then cover the meat with boiling water. 
Boil rapidly, skimming when necessary. Half an 
hour before the meat is done, cut a medium sized 
onion into slices and add it to the water in which 
the meat is boiling, together with a bay leaf, four 
cloves, six pepper corns, a half stick of celery, and 
a half inch of stick cinnamon. Place the meat in 
a deep platter when it is done, and spread it thinly 
with grated horseradish. Strain the liquor remain- 
ing in the kettle and make a bro^vTi sauce to pour 
over the meat. Dumplings are very nice served with 
a pot roast. 

BEEF PIE. 

A good way of utilizing bits of cold steak, pot 
roast, or even roast, is by means of the beef pie. Line 
a baking dish with a rich biscuit dough. Put in a 
layer of bits of cold meat, chopped cold boiled po- 
tatoes, a bit of onion chopped fine, a little chopped 
parsley; then another layer of the meat, and so on, 
until the meat is exhausted or the dish nearly filled. 
Pour over all cold gravy; cover with a crust which 
has a slit cut in it; and bake until crust is done. 



56 Us Two Cook Book 

BEEF LOAF. 

One and a half pounds veal or beef, minced very 
fine, and uncooked; two crackers, crushed vevy fine; 
one egg, one-fourth cup of milk, butter the size of 
an egg, one teaspoon salt, one-half of pepper ; mix 
in shape of a loaf, and bake in an oven one hour, 
basting often. 

BEEF HASH. 

Chop either cold steak or roast with cold boiled 
potatoes and small onions. Put over the fire; add 
a piece of butter, salt and pepper, cold gravy or hot 
water; cook until brown. 

% 
BEEF KIDNEY. 

Have beef kidneys cut in thin slices; put in salt 
water for ten minutes, drain, salt and pepper and 
fry in hot fat to a light brown colour. Then add a 
little water; thicken with one-half tablespoonful 
of flour; add a little chopped parsley and serve hot. 

BEEF STEW. 

Half a pound of beef from leg, remove fat and cut 
in small pieces, half an onion cut in slices, three 
tablespoonfuls of carrots cut in dice, a quarter of 
a cup of turnips cut in dice, two potatoes cut in one- 
half inch slices, half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch 
of pepper, and one quart of water. Boil slowly for 
one hour then thicken with two tablespoons of flour 
mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Dump- 
lings are very nice served with this. 



Meats 57 

DUMPLINGS FOR STEW. 

One cup of flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt; sift together twice; mix 
into shape with cold water, and drop from spoon 
into stew. Cover tightly and cook for fifteen 
minutes. 



BEEP CROQUETTES. 

Minced cold beef, boiled or roast, a quarter as 
much mashed potato, gravy enough to moisten them, 
in which an onion has been boiled and strained 
out, season with catsup, pepper, salt, and a pinch of 
marjoram, fine bread crumbs and one egg. 

Mash the potatoes while hot, very smooth, or if 
cold potatoes be used, see they are free from lumps ; 
mix in the meat, gravy, and seasoning, bind all to- 
gether with the beaten egg and form into the de- 
sired shapes; roll them in fine bread crumbs, and 
fry quickly to a light brown. Drain on soft paper 
before the fire till free from fat, and serve hot. 



TO BOIL CORNED BEEF. 

Put the beef in water enough to cover it, and let 
it heat slowly, and boil slowly, and be careful to 
take off the grease. Many think it much improved 
by boiling potatoes, turnips, and cabbages with it. 
In this case the vegetables must be pealed and all 
the grease carefully skimmed as fast as it rises. 
Allow about twenty minutes of boiling for each 
pound of meat. 



58 Us Two Cook Book 

DKIED BEEF A LA CREME. 

Make a cream sauce and add to it the dried beef, 
cut fine. Season with pepper but not salt. When 
hot, add a well-beaten egg, stir till it thickens and 
serve at once on toast. A very nice breakfast dish. 

CHIPPED BEEF STEWED. 

Tear dried beef into small pieces and make a 
cream dressing of equal parts of milk and water and 
a little flour to thicken and one well-beaten egg. Let 
cook until it thickens and serve hot. If the beef is 
too saltj it should be boiled a little and the water 
poured off before adding the milk and water for the 
dressing. 

TRIPE LYONNAISE. 

Cut up half a pound of cold boiled tripe into 
squares. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
tablespoonful of chopped onion in a frying pan and 
fry brown; add to this a tablespoonful of strong 
vinegar, salt and cayenne. Stir to prevent burning. 
Cover the bottom of a heated platter with tomato 
sauce, add the contents and serve hot. 

ROAST VEAL. 

A small roast of veal from the loin is choicest, but 
a shoulder roast with a pocket for stuffing is also 
good. A two-pound roast can be bought but from 
three to three and a half pounds is the best size. 
Bake till tender, basting when necessary. 



Meats 59 

JELLIED VEAL. 

Cover with water and cook a shank of veal slowly 
until the meat comes easily from the bones. Season 
with salt and pepper. Meanwhile hard-boil two 
eggs; chill in cold water. Moisten a mould, cut the 
eojors in slices and lav in the bottom. Take out the 
bones and gristle and pour the remainder on the 
eggs. Put in a cool place, or on ice, and it will jelly 
quickly. Cost, not twenty-five cents. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

The cutlets are taken from the leg of the veal and 
should be cut half an inch in thickness. Season 
with salt and pepper; dip in beaten egg, and then in 
cracker crumbs, and fry slowly for thirty minutes. 
Serve with brown gravy made as follows: Put equal 
parts of butter and flour in frying pan and stir until 
smooth and brown ; add sufficient water to make the 
proper consistency. Season with salt and pepper 
and Worcestershire sauce. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Chop up fine, enough veal to fill one cupful; 
season highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, onion juice, 
celery salt and parsley. Moisten with one beaten 
egg and white sauce and shape into moulds, roll in 
fine bread crumbs, egg and crumbs again and fry in 
hot fat. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS. 
Cut half a pound of veal cutlets in pieces two 



6o Us Two Cook Book 

inches long. Season with salt and pepper; wrap 
strips of English breakfast bacon around each 
*^pig"; pin with toothpicks and fry until done. 

VEAL CHOPS. 

Season the veal chops the same as veal cutlets; 
dredge with cracker crumbs and fry; garnish with 
slices of lemon and parsley. 

FRICASSEE OF VEAL. 

Boil one or two pounds of veal until tender; re- 
move from the pot and when cool chop and add a 
small onion, a cooked carrot, and celery chopped 
fine. Return to the skillet and pour over it the 
liquor in which it was cooked and which has been 
thickened to the proper consistency. Garnish with 
parsley. 

IRISH STEW. 

Chop mutton or beef, or both together ; add several 
raw potatoes, and two onions; season with salt and 
pepper. Cover with water and stew gently until 
the meat is tender and the potatoes are done to a 
mash. Serve with dumplings. 

ROAST LAMB. 

A leg of lamb is too large for a small family unless 
it is real milk lamb, when it should be carefully 
roasted as it cooks quickly. Get a two-pound piece 
of the shoulder of a young lamb and ask the butcher 
to fix a pocket for stuffing. This is a very delicious 
roast. 



Meats 6i 

BROILED LAMB CHOPS. 

Order your lamb chops according to the number 
you wish rather than by the pound — they will aver- 
age three or four to a pound. Salt and pepper and 
place on the broiler under a moderate fire until well 
browned. Garnish with parsley, 

LAMB KIDNEYS. 

Soak kidneys in cold water for an hour; pare and 
slice; season with salt and pepper; fry in hot 
butter for five to ten minutes; remove from fire and 
dredge with flour; return to fire and add a cup of 
boiling water or broth; cook ten minutes longer; 
season with onions or lemon juice. Serve imme- 
diately. 

BREADED CHOPS. 

Trim and flatten, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dip in egg and then in cracker-dust, and fry to a fine 
brown in deep boiling fat. Drain and serve dry 
and hot. 

STEWED LAMB AND GREEN PEAS. 

Buy one and a half pounds of the coarser parts of 
the lamb; cut into inch lengths and dredge with 
flour. Have ready in a saucepan one tablespoonful 
of good dripping, and when it hisses put in one- 
quarter sliced onion, and fry to a light brown. Skim 
out the onion and put in the meat, cooking for five 
minutes and turning often to keep it from sticking 
to the bottom of the pan. Then add a half cupful 



62 Us Two Cook Book 

of boiliDg water, or weak stock, cover closely and 
cook gently for one hour. Add then a generons 
cupful of green peas. Canned will do, but the fresh 
are better. Stew for twenty minutes longer, or until 
the peas are tender, add a teaspoonful of brown roux, 
boil up once, and pour upon slices of toast that have 
been soaked in hot tomato sauce. A cheap and a 
savoury dish. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut them nicely, clearing away all ragged ends 
and edges; fry for a few moments covered closely, 
and then dip each piece in cracker crumbs and 
beaten egg, or you may prepare them as for frying; 
then lay them in a dripping pan, and put into the 
oven to bake; baste frequently with a little melted 
butter and water. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil the sweetbreads and cut in pieces about 
one and a half inches long. Make a cream sauce; 
add to the sweetbreads and pour over buttered toast. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS. 

First boil the sweetbreads; cut crosswise; season 
with salt and pepper; broil ten minutes; serve with 
melted butter and sliced lemon. 

TRIPE. 

Wash in warm water and cut away the fat; cut in 
pieces and boil for four hours. Then dip in beaten 



Meats 63 

eggs; season with salt and pepper; roll in cracker 
crumbs and fry in very hot fat for ten minutes. 

ROAST PORK. 

Roast same as beef, dredging the pork with flour; 
baste often. Make a gravy from the juices, pouring 
off part of the grease if the roast is very fat. 

PORK CHOPS. 

Cut off the skin, trim neatly and dip in beaten 
egg, then in cracker crumbs seasoned with salt, 
pepper, powdered sage, and finely minced onion. 
Set in a cold place for an hour or more and fry in 
hot fat, turning often, for at least twenty minutes. 
Send in dry and hot, and serve with apple sauce. 

ROAST SPARE RIB WITH DRESSING. 

Have loin of pork cut with long ribs; season and 
put to roast; half an hour before it is done turn so 
the ribs will hold the dressing made as for turkey 
stuffing; fill with the dressing and finish baking; 
serve with apple sauce. 

BROILED PORK TENDERLOIN. 

Have the tenderloins Frenched ; season with salt 
and pepper; broil until thoroughly done, spread 
with butter ; serve while hot on a hot platter. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Pick over and wash carefully two cupfuls of 
beans, and let them soak in water all night. Wash 



64 Us Two Cook Book 

and drain in another water, boil in cold water 
twenty minutes; stir in a half teaspoonful of baking 
soda and skim off the froth. Drain and pour beans 
in an earthen covered pot. Put in the centre of the 
beans a quarter of a pound of salt pork; score the 
rind in slices. Mix one pint of boiling water with 
half a teaspoonful of salt, one pinch of cayenne 
pepper, one tablespoonful of molasses. Pour this 
over the beans, set in a moderate oven, and bake for 
four hours, keeping the pot well covered. About an 
hour before the beans are done, remove the cover to 
brown the top and crisp the pork. When done, if 
beans are just right, the juice will show itself when 
the pot is tilted half way up. Serve in a deep dish, 
the pork on top, garnished with a few sprigs of 
parsley. 

BOILED HAM. 

Wash and put in kettle with plenty of water and 
let boil slowly until tender. Remove and peel off the 
rind; dredge with flour and a sprinkling of sugar; 
add a little cinnamon and stick a few cloves in the 
ham. Place the ham in a dripping pan with a little 
water and continue the cooking until the ham is 
browned and well done. Serve hot, or cut in thin 
slices when cold. 

BACON AND LIVER. 

Always be sure to select calves^ liver. Boiling 
water should be poured over the liver which will 
cause a thin skin to form and which should be 
removed by scraping with a sharp knife. Dredge 



Meats 65 

with flour and season with salt and pepper. Cut 
your bacon as thin as possible and place in the 
skillet with the liver. Fry slowly until well done. 



FRIED HAM WITH EGGS. 

If the ham is very salt it should be first parboiled 
before frying. Turn often and fry until brown. 
Remove to a hot platter ; have your eggs ready and 
fry as quickly as possible in the ham fat, dipping 
the grease over the tops of the eggs until the " eyes 
are shut." 

BROILED HAM. 

Ham for broiling should be cut thin. If very salt, 
parboil first. Dry and place on broiler under a 
moderate fire for ten minutes. Garnish with 
parsley. 

KIDNEYS WITH BACON. 

Split lamb kidneys in half and fasten open with 
toothpicks. Cook in a frying pan thin slices of fat 
breakfast bacon until clear, but not crisped. Take 
up and keep hot while you cook the kidneys in the 
bacon -fat, turning them frequently. Six minutes 
should make them tender. Long cooking toughens 
them. Arrange upon thin slices of toast in a dish, 
garnish with the bacon, add a teaspoon ful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce to the gravy and pour over the 
kidneys. 



66 Us Two Cook Book 

HOT TARTARE SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter; melt in saucepan; 
stir in one tablespoonful of flour, enough bo? ling 
water to make it not too thick; let stand to cool five 
minutes, then drop in yolk of one egg and beat up 
and add a little more butter and water if too thick; 
then add a teaspoonful of vinegar and one teaspoon- 
ful of chopped pickled cucumber. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

One-half teaspoon mustard, two teaspoons granu- 
lated sugar, salt and pepper to taste, one-quarter 
cup vinegar, one-quarter cup grated horseradish. 
Mix mustard and sugar, vinegar, etc.; add radish; 
three-quarters cup whipped cream. 

MINT SAUCE. 

One-fourth cup finely chopped mint leaves, one- 
half cup vinegar, one tablespoonful powered sugar, 
add sugar to vinegar, when dissolved pour over mint 
and let stand thirty minutes. If vinegar is very 
strong, dilute with water. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in saucepan, stir 
until melted and bubbling; add one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of flour mixed with a pinch of salt 
and pepper, and stir until thoroughly blended. Pour 
on gradually one cup scalded milk, stirring until 
well mixed, then beating until smooth and glossy. 



Meats 67 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Make same as White Sauce. Using cream instead 
of milk. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Melt one tablespoonful butter, add one table- 
spoonful flour mixed with a little salt and pepper, 
and pour in gradually three-fourths cup of hot 
water. Boil five minutes. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

One-half cup of Drawn Butter Sauce, one-half 
tablespoonful of chopped capers, one teaspoonful of 
juice from the bottled capers; let it just simmer 
and serve. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Put into a saucepan one-half pint of stewed 
tomatoes, one-half of a small onion, half a bay leaf, 
and half a blade of mace, a pinch of minced parsley ; 
simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. Melt one-half 
tablespoonful of butter, add to it two teaspoonfuls 
of flour, mix until very smooth. Press the tomatoes 
through a sieve, add them to the butter and flour, 
and stir until it boils. Season with salt and pepper 
to taste. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, half a small onion 
chopped fine, half a tablespoonful of flour, oiiQ 



68 Us Two Cook Book 

celery leaf, half a cup of stock, two tablespoonfuls 
of currant jelly; fry onion light brown in the but- 
ter; stir in the flour, browning slightly; add celery 
leaf and then the stock; simmer twenty minutes; 
strain, reheat and add jelly and stir until dissolved; 
then serve. 

BREAD SAUCE FOR CHICKEN. 

One pint of hot milk, one onion, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one cupful of finely grated bread crumbs. 
Press cloves into the onion; add the hot milk and 
let it simmer for half an hour. Then add the but- 
ter and bread crumbs, stir until thickened. When 
ready to serve, take out the onion and cloves. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One cup of oysters, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, half cup milk and oyster 
liquor. Wash oysters, reserve liquor, heat, strain, 
add oysters and cook until plump. Remove the 
oysters and make a sauce of butter, flour, oyster 
liquor and milk. Add oysters and season with salt 
and pepper. 

BAKED RICE CURRY. 

Wash half a cupful of raw rice in three waters, 
and let it soak fifteen minutes in water enough to 
cover it. Boil an onion in a pint of water with a 
little salt until the onion is very soft. Strain the 
water, squeezing the onion hard in a bit of cloth. 
Throw it away, put the water over the fire with a 



Meats 69 

teaspoonful of curry-powder, and when it boils again 
pour upon the rice and the water in which it was 
soaked. Turn all into a jar with a close top, or a 
casserole dish with a cover, and set in a moderate 
oven until the rice has soaked up the liquid and is 
swollen and soft, but not broken. Serve in a deep, 
open dish, and pour over it a few spoonfuls of 
melted butter, loosening the rice gently with a fork 
to allow the butter to penetrate to the bottom. 
Serve with roast chicken, veal, or fish. 



CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Wash one pint of cranberries, put them in a sauce- 
pan with a half pint of water. Cover the sauce- 
pan, boil for twenty minutes. Press the cran- 
berries through a colander, return them to the fire, 
boil for ten minutes, add half a pound of sugar, stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, boil for five minutes 
and turn at once into a mould. 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Half cupful of stock, half can of mushrooms, half 
the juice of the mushrooms, one teaspoonful of but- 
ter, one heaping teaspoonful of flour, skim the stock 
and put it and the mushroom juice in a saucepan 
on the fire. Now put the butter and flour in a fry- 
ing pan, and stir together until well browned; re- 
move from the fire and stir in the boiling stock, add 
the mushrooms, a few drops of lemon juice, salt and 
pepper; stew for five minutes. 



70 Us Two Cook Book 

PROPER RELISHES TO ACCOMPANY MEATS. 

Roast Beef Grated Horseradish 

Roast Mutton Currant Jelly 

Roast Lamb Mint Sauce 

Roast Pork Apple Sauce 

Boiled Mutton Caper Sauce 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak and Veal Cutlets 

Mushroom Sauce 
Broiled Steaks and Chops Tomato Sauce 



Meats 71 



72 Us Two Cook Book 



Meats 73 



74 Us Two Cook Book 



Meats 75 



76 Us Two Cook Book 



Meats 77 



78 Us Two Cook Book 



Meats 79 




^i-v "S*;."*^'. 






J 



81 



Poultry and Game 83 

POULTRY AND GAME. 

In choosing poultry, select those that are fresh 
and fat, and the surest way to determine whether 
they are young, is to try the skin under the leg or 
wing. If it is easily broken, it is young; or, turn the 
wing backwards; if the joint yields readily it is 
tender. When poultry is young the skin is thin 
and tender, the legs smooth, the feet moist and 
limber, and the eyes full and bright. The body 
should be thick and the breast fat. Old turkeys 
have long hairs, and the flesh is purplish where it 
shows under the skin on the legs and back. About 
March they deteriorate in quality. 

Young ducks and geese are plump, with light, 
semi-transparent fat, soft breast-bone, tender flesh, 
leg-joints which will break by the weight of the bird, 
fresh-coloured and brittle beaks, and wind-pipes that 
break when pressed between the thumb and fore- 
finger. They are best in fall and winter. 

Young pigeons have light i^d flesh upon the 
breast, and full, fresh-coloured legs; when the legs 
are thin and the breast very dark the birds are 
old. 

Fine game birds are always heavy for their size; 
the flesh of the breast is firm and plump, and the 
skin clear; and if a few feathers be plucked from 
the inside of the leg and around the vent, the flesh 
of freshly-killed birds will be fat and fresh-coloured ; 
if it is dark and discoloured, the game has been hung 
a long time. The wings of good ducks, geese, 
pheasants, and woodcock are tender to the touch; 
the tips of the long wing feathers of partridges are 



84 Us Two Cook Book 

pointed in young birds and round in old ones. 
Quail, snipe and small birds should have full, tender 
breasts. Poultry should never be cooked until six 
or eight hours after it has been killed, but it should 
be picked and drawn as soon as possible. Plunge 
it into a pot of scalding hot water; then pluck off 
the feathers, taking care not to tear the skin ; when 
it is picked clean, roll up a piece of white paper, set 
fire to it, and singe off all the hairs. 

Fowls, and also various kinds of game, when 
bought at our city markets, require a more thorough 
cleansing than those sold in country places, where 
as a general thing the meat is wholly dressed. In 
large cities they lie for some length of time with the 
intestines undrawn, until the flavour of them dif- 
fuses itself all through the meat, rendering it dis- 
tasteful. In this case, it is safe after taking out the 
intestines, to rinse out in several waters, and in 
next to the last water, add a teaspoonful of baking 
soda; say to a quart of water. This process 
neutralizes all sourness, and helps to destroy all 
unpleasant taste in the meat. 

Poultry may be baked so that its wings and legs 
are soft and tender, by being placed in a deep roast- 
ing pan with close cover, thereby retaining the 
aroma and essences by absorption while confined. 
These pans are a recent innovation, and are made 
double with a small opening in the top for giving 
vent to the accumulation of steam and gases when 
required. Roast meats of any kind can also be 
cooked in the same manner, and it is a great im- 
provement on the old plan. 



Poultry and Game 85 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Select a young turkey ; remove all the feathers 
carefully, singe it over a burning newspaper on the 
top of the stove; then " draw" it nicely, being very 
careful not to break any of the internal organs; re- 
move the crop carefully ; cut off the neck close to the 
body. Now rinse the inside of the turkey out with 
several waters, and in the next to the last, mix a 
teaspoonful of baking soda ; oftentimes the inside of 
a fowl is very sour, especially if it is not freshly 
killed. Now, after washing, wipe the turkey dry, 
inside and out, with a clean cloth, rub the inside 
with some salt, then stuff the breast and body with 
" Dressing for Fowls." Then sew up the turkey with 
a strong thread, tie the legs and wings to the body, 
rub it over with a little soft butter, sprinkle over 
some salt and pepper, dredge with a little flour; 
place it in a dripping pan, pour in a cup of boiling 
water, and set it in the oven. Baste the turkey 
often, turning it round occasionally so that every 
part will be uniformly baked. When pierced with a 
fork and the liquid runs out perfectly clear, the bird 
is done. 

GRAVY FOR TURKEY. 

When you put the turkey in to roast ; put the neck, 
heart, liver and gizzard into a stew-pan with a pint 
of water; boil until they become quite tender; take 
them out of the water, chop the heart and gizzard, 
mash the liver and throw away the neck; return the 
chopped heart, gizzard and liver to the liquor in 
which they were stewed; set to one side, and when 



86 Us Two Cook Book 

the turkey is done it should be added to the gravy 
that dripped from the turkey, having first poured 
off the fat from the surface of the dripping-pan; 
set it all over the fire, boil three minutes and thicken 
with flour. It will not need brown flour to colour 
the gravy. The garnishes for turkey or chicken are 
fried oysters, rashers of bacon, slices of lemon, fried 
sausages, force-meat balls, also parsley. 

TUBtKEY HASHED. 

Cut the remnants of turkey from a previous din- 
ner into pieces of equal size. Boil the bones in a 
quart of water, until the quart is reduced to a pint; 
then take out the bones, and to the liquor in which 
they were boiled add turkey gravy, or white stock, 
or a small piece of butter with salt and pepper; let 
the liquor thus prepared boil up once; then put in 
the pieces of turkey, dredge in a little flour, give it 
one boil-up, and serve in a hot dish. 

TURKEY WARMED OVER. 

Pieces of cold turkey or chicken may be warmed 
up with a little butter in a frying pan ; place it on 
a warm platter, surround it with small thick 
slices of bread or biscuit halved, first dipping them 
in hot salted water; then place the platter in a 
warm oven with the door open. Have already made 
the following gravy to pour over all. Into the fry- 
ing-pan put a large spoonful of butter, one or two 
cupfuls of milk, and any gravy that may be left over. 
Bring it to a boil ; then add sufficient flour, wet in 
a little cold milk or water, to make it the con- 



Poultry and Game 87 

sistency of cream. Season with salt and pepper, 
add a little of the dark meat chopped very fine. 
Let the sauce cook a few moments; then pour over 
the biscuit and fowl. This will be found a really 
nice dish. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Prepare your chicken. Make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, butter, pepper and salt, summer savory or 
thyme to taste. Put a pint of hot water in the drip- 
ping-pan, add to it a small tablespoonful of salt and 
a small teaspoonful of pepper. Baste frequently 
and let it roast quickly without scorching. When 
nearly done add a piece of butter the size of a large 
egg to the water in the pan; when it melts baste 
with it, dredge with flour, baste again and let it 
finish. From three-quarters to one hour will roast 
if the fire is right When done take it up, let the 
giblets (heart, liver and gizzard) boil tender and 
chop fine. Put them in the gravy. Add a table- 
spoonful of browned flour and a bit of butter. Stir 
it over the fire for a few minutes, then serve in a 
gravy tureen. 

FRIED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Clean and joint the chicken, then soak in salt 
water for an hour. Have frying-pan ready with 
equal parts of lard and butter enough to cover the 
chicken. Roll each piece of chicken in flour, dip in 
beaten egg, drop into boiling hot fat. Fry until 
brown. Serve on heated platter, garnished with 
parsley. Pour most of the fat from the pan, and 



88 Us Two Cook Book 

thicken the remainder with browned flour, and add 
one cupful of hot milk. Serve in gravy boat. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

A half cupful of minced chicken, add salt and 
pepper to taste, and enough gravy thickened with 
flour to mould into egg-shaped rolls. Sprinkle well 
with bread crumbs, and brown in a heaping tea- 
spoonful of hot butter in an uncovered dish. When 
a nice brown, remove croquettes to a hot dish. Add 
to the butter left in the pan one teaspoonful of 
soaked bread crumbs and four tablespoonfuls of 
heated milk, boil until thick enough to spread evenly, 
add the seasoning you like. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in pieces and boil until the meat 
falls from the bones; when cool cut the meat in 
small squares. Make a sauce by thickening the 
liquor in which the chicken was cooked with flour; 
add one pint of milk; a little butter, season with salt 
and pepper. Add the chicken and cook ten minutes. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Select a young chicken for broiling. Split it up 
the back, sprinkle with salt and pepper, rub with 
soft butter and place on a broiler for twenty 
minutes. Garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN STEW. 
Cut up the fowl as for frying; wash and put in a 



Poultry and Game 89 

kettle with plenty of water, salt and pepper and if 
the chicken is not fat, a little butter. Cook until 
tender and drop in dumplings made according to 
the " Dumpling " recipe. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut the chicken in pieces and put in a baking 
dish; season with bits of fried bacon, pepper and 
salt, and a little chopped parsley. Make a gravy of 
the stock in which the chicken was boiled, by adding 
a little flour rubbed smooth in water; pour over the 
chicken ; put in the trimmings of the crust. Cover 
with a rich pie crust to which has been added two 
eggs. Bake until done. 

CHICKEN JELLY. 

Cook a chicken in enough water to little more 
than cover it; let it stew gently until the meat drops 
from the bones, and the broth is reduced to about a 
pint; season it to taste, with a little salt and pepper. 
Strain and press, first through a colander, then 
through a coarse cloth. Set it over the fire again, 
and cook a few minutes longer. Turn it into an 
earthen vegetable dish to harden; set it on the ice 
in the refrigerator. Eat cold in slices. Nice made 
into sandwiches, with thin slices of bread, lightly 
spread with butter. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Cut chicken into joints and put into a pan or 
stew-jar. Put in a very little salt and a peppercorn, 



90 Us Two Cook Book 

and just cover with water; let it stew gently for 
two or three hours or more, adding a little water if 
required. When the meat falls from the bones take 
off the meat and pound up the bones, and give them 
an extra boil. Strain the liquid from the meat (and 
bones) and when cold take off any fat. It becomes 
a jelly, and can be eaten cold or w^armed up. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

The goose should not be more than eight months 
old, and the fatter the more tender and juicy the 
meat. Stuff with the following mixture: Thre^ 
pints of bread crumbs, six ounces of butter, or part 
butter and part salt pork, one teaspoonful each of 
sage, black pepper and salt, one chopped onion. Do 
not stuff very full, and stitch openings firmly 
together to keep flavour in and fat out. Place in a 
baking pan with a little water, and baste frequently 
with salt and water (some add vinegar) ; turn often 
so that the sides and back may be nicely browned. 
Bake two hours or more; when done take from the 
pan, pour off the fat, and to the brown gravy left, add 
the chopped giblets which have previously been 
stewed until tender, together with the water they 
were boiled in ; thicken with a little flour and butter 
rubbed together, bring to a boil and serve. English 
style. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Wash and dry the duck. Make a stuffing of bread, 
onion, pepper, salt and butter; insert, and sew up 
completely that the seasoning may not escai)e. If 



Poultry and Game 91 

tender, ducks do not require more than an hour to 
roast; keep them well basted, and a few minutes 
before serving dredge lightly with flour to make 
them froth and look plump. Pour brown gravy over 
them. Accompany with currant jelly or green peas. 

WILD DUCK. 

Make a dressing of veal, mushrooms and bread 
chopped fine; soak the bread in cold water and mix 
with mushrooms and veal ; season with pepper and 
salt and a little garlic to taste; remove all the breast 
of the duck on either side; spread the dressing on 
the breast and roll it up and tie it; place it in a pan 
with a little butter, and salt, bake until it is nicely 
browned ; add one-half cup of Rhine wine and let it 
simmer two minutes; cover with espagnole sauce; 
cook slowly forty minutes, and serve hot with 
croutons. 

TO COOK QUAIIJ. 

Cut the quail in half; salt, with a little onion 
juice to flavour; when nicely browned add one pint of 
Burgundy wine; simmer ten minutes; two table- 
spoons espagnole; then add eight large oysters and 
four mushrooms; drop the oysters in so as not to 
cook too much; season with salt, lemon juice and 
cayenne, serve hot. 

ROAST QUAIIi. 

Clean the quail, and wash in soda and water. 
Cleanse again with clear water and wipe dry. Put 



92 Us Two Cook Book 

two oysters inside each quail, sew up and place side 
by side in a baking-pan. Pour a little boiling water 
over them, cover and roast half an hour, basting 
often with butter. Serve upon pieces of fried toast 
laid on a hot dish. Make a gravy and pour a spoon- 
ful over each. 

SNIPE AND OTHER SMALL BIRDS BROILED. 

After dressing the birds, wipe dry and split down 
the backbone, rub with melted butter, sprinkle with 
pepper but do not salt. Lay on hot broiler over a 
clear bed of coals; turn often and cook until both 
sides are browned; take up on hot platter and 
sprinkle with salt, and pour over each half one-half 
teaspoonful of melted butter. 

PIGEON ROASTED. 

Stuff the birds the same as for roasted chickens. 
Rub them well with butter, rub with salt and lay 
on slices of bacon in a dripping pan, with one cup 
of boiling water. Bake in a hot oven, basting often, 
and turning them that they may brown on both 
sides. Serve with giblet gravy and currant jelly. 

PIGEON BROILED. 

Clean and wash two birds, split down the back, 
lay on a hot buttered gridiron with the bone sides 
toward the fire. Baste with melted butter, keep 
covered, broil twenty minutes slowly; turn a few 
minutes before it is done, then salt and pepper. Lay 
on buttered toast, add butter and the juice which 
escaped while broiling. 



Poultry and Game 93 

WILD GOOSE. 

Dress; wash thoroughly and soak for an hour or 
more in salt water. Then wash in boiling water; 
wipe dry; place in a dripping pan; stuff with a 
small onion, chopped ; a slice of bacon, a table- 
spoonful of sherry wine. After the goose has been 
well rubbed inside and outside with salt and pepper, 
put in a roasting pan with sufiScient stock or water 
to make gravy ; dredge with flour and bake for half 
an hour. Garnish with roasted onions. 

BROILED SQUABS. 

Squabs are better broiled than cooked in any 
other way. Rub with soft butter; season with pep- 
per and salt and fold in a buttered paper to prevent 
burning. Serve on buttered toast with currant or 
any other tart jelly. 

ROAST PARTRIDGES. 

Clean and truss as you would chickens. Bind 
thin slices of fat salt pork or bacon over the breasts 
and put into your roaster with half a cupful of boil- 
ing water. Pepper and salt the birds and wash over 
with melted butter, letting it drip into the pan 
below. Cook, covered, forty-five minutes, basting 
four times with butter and water. Serve with a 
good bread sauce, but after dishing pour over the 
birds several spoonfuls of their own gravy from the 
pan. 

FRIED RABBIT. 
Skin and wash the rabbit in strong soda water; 



94 Us Two Cook Book 

let stand in salt water for one hour and a half. 
Wipe dry; rub the surface with melted butter; season 
with salt and pepper. Fry in hot lard and butter 
with a strip of bacon in the skillet, turning several 
times, until well done. Serve with currant jelly. 

BABBIT PIE. 

Skin and wash the rabbit; cut in pieces, add a 
small sliced onion to the water, and stew until well 
done. Put in an earthen dish, and after enough 
of the liquor in which the rabbit was stewed has been 
poured over the meat to cover it nicely, cover with a 
rich pie crust and bake until the crust is brown. 

ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

To prepare a haunch of venison for roasting, wash 
it slightly in tepid water, and dry it thoroughly by 
rubbing it with a clean, soft cloth. Lay over the fat 
side a large sheet of thickly buttered paper, and 
next a paste of flour and water about three-quarters 
of an inch thick; cover this again with two or three 
sheets of stout paper, secure the whole well with 
twine, and put down to roast, with a little water, 
in the dripping pan. Let the fire be clear and 
strong; baste the paper immediately with butter 
or clarified drippings, and roast the Joint from three 
to four hours, according to its weight and quality. 
Doe venison will require half an hour less time than 
buck venison. About twenty minutes before the 
joint is done remove the paste and paper, baste the 
meat in every part with butter, and dredge it very 
lightly 5vith flour; let it take a pale brown colour, 



Poultry and Game 95 

and serve hot with im flavoured gravy made with a 
thickening, in a tureen and good currant jelly. 

VENISON CUTLETS. 

Clean and trim the venison cutlets; rub well with 
melted butter; salt and pepper; dip in beaten egg; 
roll in cracker crumbs; fry in lard and butter until 
well done; serve hot. 

BROILED VENISON STEAK. 

Rub the venison steak well with melted butter; 
put on a hot broiler, well-greased, and broil until 
done. Put on a hot platter; spread with butter; 
season with salt and pepper; serve very hot with a 
slice of lemon. 

GAME PIE. 

One turkey liver, the legs of one partridge, three- 
quarters pound of forcemeat, three-quarters cup of 
bread crumbs, one-quarter teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
a teaspoonful of cloves. Chop up the liver very fine, 
also the meat of the partridge legs; add the bread 
crumbs after having put them through a sifter ; add 
pepper and salt to taste. Mix all together and 
moisten with water. Put it in a pan and cook for 
half an hour, keeping it moist and turning over 
often. Put in a pie dish and cover with paste and 
bake. To be eaten cold. 

DRESSING OR STUFFING FOR FOWLS. 
For an eight or ten-pound turkey, cut the brown 



96 Us Two Cook Book 

crust from slices or pieces of stale bread until you 
have as much as the inside of a pound loaf; put it 
into a suitable dish, and pour tepid water (not 
warm, for that makes it heavy) over it; let it stand 
one minute, as it soaks very quickly. Now take up 
a handful at a time and squeeze it hard and dry with 
both hands, placing it as you go along, in another 
dish; this process makes it very light. When all is 
pressed dry, toss it all up lightly through your 
fingers; now add pepper, salt, — about a teaspoonful 
— also a teaspoonful of powdered summer savory, 
the same amount of sage, or the green herb minced 
fine; add a little melted butter, and a beaten egg. 
Work thoroughly all together, and it is ready for 
dressing either fowls, fish or meats. A little chopped 
sausage and the finest possible paring of lemon-peel 
in turkey dressing is an improvement, when well in- 
corporated with the other ingredients. 

OYSTER DRESSING OR STUFFING. 

This is made with the same ingredients as the 
above, with the exception of half a can of oysters 
drained, and slightly chopped and added to the rest. 
This is used mostly with boiled turkey and chicken, 
and the remainder of the can of oysters used to make 
an oyster sauce to be poured over the turkey when 
served, and also served in a separate dish. 

These recipes were obtained from an old coloured 
cook, who was famous for his fine dressings for 
fowls, fish and meats, and his advice was, always 
soak stale bread in cold liquid, either milk or water, 
when used for stuffing or puddings, as they were 
much lighter. Hot liquid makes them heavy. 



Poultry and Game 97 

POTATO STUFFING FOR ROAST GOOSE. 

Eight good-sized potatoes, boil and mash, salt and 
pepper to taste, four onions very finely chopped and 
mixed with hot potato. Stuff body of goose as full 
as possible. 

FOWL DRESSING. 

Steam very stale bread according to size of fowl, 
add finely chopped onions and apples, raw eggs, 
salt, pepper and allspice to taste. Quantities: for a 
duck : small bowl bread, one onion, two apples, three 
eggs, mixed well. 

APPLE STUFFING. 

One pint tart apple-sauce, one small cup bread 
crumbs, sage, one small onion finely minced, salt 
and pepper. For roast goose, duck and game. 

PROPER RELISHES TO ACCOMPANY 
POULTRY AND GAME. 

Boiled Chicken Bread or Egg Sauce 

Roast Turkey Cranberry Sauce 

Boiled Turkey Oyster Sauce 

Venison, Wild Duck or Game. .Currant Jelly Sauce 

Roast Goose Apple Sauce 

Small Roast Birds Bread Sauce 

Poultry and Boiled Fish Oyster Sauce 



98 Us Two Cook Book 



Poultry and Game 99 



loo Us Two Cook Book 



Poultry and Game loi 



102 Us Two Cook Book 



Poultry and Game 103 



104 Us Two Cook Book 



Poultry and Game 105 




107 



Entrees 109 

ENTREES. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Teacupful of cold boiled rice, a teaspoonful of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of melted butter, half tea- 
spoonful of salt and one egg. Add suflScient milk 
to make a firm paste; beat thoroughly; shape into 
balls; dip in beaten egg; roll in flour; fry in hot 
lard until brown. 

BANANA CROQUETTES. 

Peel and cut banana into four pieces, and let 
stand in lemon juice for three or four hours. Dip 
in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, and fry until a 
light brown. 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Peel the bananas ; lay in a shallow pan ; add lemon 
juice, bits of butter, a sprinkling of sugar and a 
little water. Bake until a light brown colour. 

FRIED BANANAS. 

Put three tablespoonfuls of butter in a skillet; 
melt; lay in the peeled bananas which have been 
sprinkled with lemon juice, and a little salt; fry 
until of a light brown colour, turning several times. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

See under Fish Recipes. Page 36. 



no Us Two Cook Book 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 
See under Poultry and G^me Recipes. Page 88. 

BEEF OR MEAT CROQUETTES. 
See under Meat Recipes. Page 57. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Put into a mixing bowl one cup of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one large tablespoonful 
of sugar, quarter teaspoonful of salt and sufiScient 
milk to make a stiff batter. Then add one well 
beaten egg; slice bananas into the mixture; stir well 
and drop from the spoon into very hot deep lard; 
fry until of a light brown, drain and serve. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

To half pint of corn pulp, fresh or canned, add 
one egg, pepper and salt and sufficient flour to make 
a batter. Fry on a buttered griddle or in deep lard 
until of a light brown. 

GREEN CORN PATTIES. 

To half pint of grated corn, add one well beaten 
egg; one-fourth cup of cream, and quarter cup of 
flour, with one-half teaspoon of baking powder 
stirred in it ; season with pepper and salt and fry in 
butter, dropping the batter in spoonfuls; serve a few 
at a time, very hot, as a relish with meats. 

ORANGE AND FRUIT FRITTERS. 
Make a batter of one cup of flour, two teaspoon- 



Entrees iii 

fuls of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and one well 
beaten egg. Peel and quarter the oranges; remove 
all seeds; dip each quarter in the batter and fry in 
hot lard. Any fruit can be substituted in place of 
oranges. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Wash and boil half a cup of rice in cup of milk 
with pinch of salt. When tender remove from the 
fire and add the yolk of an egg and one teaspoonful 
of butter. Shape into balls, roll in fine cracker 
crumbs; dip in beaten eggs; roll again in the crumbs 
and fry in hot lard until brown. 

BAKED RICE. 

Mix cold boiled rice with a little milk, butter, and 
a beaten egg; season and put in baking dish and 
bake until brown. 

NUT SCRABBLE. 

One cup sifted Indian meal, half a cup of hominy, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and sufiScient boiling water 
to make a consistency for frying. Cook for half 
hour in double boiler. Take from the fire and mix 
in one cup of ground hickory nut meat. Pour 
into buttered pan. When cold, slice and fry in hot 
lard. 

PILAF. 

To one cup of water, add a little salt and the juice 
of a tomato. Put on the stove and when boiling 



112 Us Two Cook Book 

add half a cup of rice and cook until the rice soaks 
up the water. Add melted butter to taste. It is 
then ready to serve. 

STUFFED SWEET PEPPERS. 

Make an incision in one side, and extract the 
seeds through this with a bit of stick. Stuff with 
a forcemeat of tongue, chicken, ham, or veal, mixed 
up with boiled rice, and seasoned with salt, a dash 
of onion juice, and a little butter. Sew up the 
peppers with a few stitches, pack them into a bake- 
dish, pour in enough weak stock to keep them from 
burning, cover and bake in a moderate oven for an 
hour, then dish, withdrawing the strings. Keep hot 
while you add to the gravy in the dish a tablespoon- 
ful of brown roux. Boil up once and pour over the 
peppers. Should the gravy have boiled away too 
much, put in a little boiling water to thin the roux. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Put the spaghetti in boiling water and let it boil 
for twenty-five minutes — watching it carefully not 
to let it get too soft or " mushy " — yet being sure 
it is thoroughly cooked. When done remove from 
boiling water and strain. Place a tablespoonful of 
butter in the bottom of a heated dish and serve the 
spaghetti hot in this, passing the sauce and finely 
grated Parmesan cheese with same. 

BOILED MACARONI. 
One cup of macaroni broken in pieces an inch 



Entrees 113 

long; boil in water to which a pinch of salt has been 
added, nntil tender. Strain into a colander and let 
cold water run through to prevent the macaroni 
from sticking together; add one cup of cream; re- 
heat and serve hot. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Prepare and cook the same as for Boiled Maca- 
roni. Re-heat in two cups of sauce made according 
to the Tomato Sauce recipe. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

Prepare the same as Boiled Macaroni. Put into a 
buttered baking-dish ; cover with crumbs and bits of 
butter; bake until browTi. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Prepare the same as Boiled Macaroni. Put into a 
buttered baking-dish in layers, alternating with 
layers of grated cheese. Cover with crumbs and bits 
of butter; bake until brown. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Prepare the same as Baked Macaroni with Cheese, 
using tomato sauce instead of the grated cheese. 
Cover with crumbs and bits of butter; bake until 
brown. 

CHEESE SAVORY. 
Toast slices of white or brown bread, half-inch 



114 Us Two Cook Book 

thick; one yolk of egg, tablespoonful of cream, one 
ounce of bread crumbs, two ounces of grated cheese; 
pepper, salt, cayenne to taste; pour the mixture on 
the toast, brown in oven and serve very hot. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

Half cupful grated cheese, half cupful stale bread 
crumbs, half cupful milk, one egg, butter, pinch of 
salt, pinch of pepper, pinch of mustard, pinch 
of cayenne pepper. All the ingredients except the 
butter, egg and milk should be mixed in the dish in 
which they are to be baked. After that has been 
done beat the egg, and when it has been beaten add 
the milk to it and pour the combined liquids over the 
dry materials. Melt a piece of butter about the size 
of an egg and add that, too. Bake for from fifteen 
to twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE. 

Take one and a half slices of bread, well-buttered, 
first cutting off the brown outside crust. Grate fine 
two ounces of any kind of good cheese; lay the 
bread in layers in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle 
over each the grated cheese, some salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix two well beaten eggs with one and a 
half cups of milk; pour it over the bread and 
cheese. Bake It in a hot oven as you would cook a 
bread pudding. 

ENGLISH MONKEY. 

Soak half a cupful of stale bread crumbs in half a 
cup of milk fifteen minutes; put one heaping tea- 



Entrees 115 

spoonful of butter into chafing-dish; add one-third 
of a cup of cheese cut fine; stir until melted, add 
crumbs with one beaten egg. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Beef " olives " are exceedingly dainty when well 
made, and if they are served with corn or potato 
bread and a mixture of cooked vegetables, mace- 
doine, make a complete meal. Purchase a pound 
and a half of thin round steak; cut it into strips 
about two inches wide and five inches long. Mix a 
cupful of stale bread crumbs with half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of pepper and (if you have it) a 
tablespoonful of chopped celery, and pour over one 
tablespoonful of melted butter. Put a layer of this 
in the centre of each strip of meat, roll the strips up, 
tie with twine and dredge them thickly with flour. 
Put a little suet or bacon fat in a frying-pan ; when 
hot put in the beef '^ olives," as these rolls are now 
called, shake them until they are brown on all sides 
and lift them to a stewing-pan. Add to the fat re- 
maining in the pan four level tablespoonfuls of flour, 
mix and add one pint of stock or boiling water; 
bring to the boiling point, strain it over the rolls 
and add one slice of onion, a bay leaf and a level 
teaspoonful of salt; cover the pan and cook very 
gently for one hour. Remove the strings, place the 
" olives '^ on a hot dish and pour over the sauce. 
Garnish with boiled rice or potatoes. 



ii6 Us Two Cook Book 



Entrees 117 



ii8 Us Two Cook Book 



Entrees 119 



I20 Us Two Cook Book 



Entrees 



121 



122 



Us Two Cook Book 



Entrees 123 




125 



Vegetables 127 

VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables of all kinds should be thoroughly 
picked over, throwing out all decayed or unripe 
parts, then well washed in several waters. Most 
vegetables, when washed, are better when laid in cold 
water a short time before cooking. When partly 
cooked, a little salt should be throw^n into the water 
in which they are boiled, and they should cook stead- 
ily after they are put on, not allowed to stop boil- 
ing or simmering until they are thoroughly done. 
Every sort of culinary vegetable is much better 
when freshly gathered and cooked as soon as pos- 
sible, and, when done, thoroughly drained, and served 
immediately while hot. 

Onions, cabbage, carrots and turnips should be 
cooked in a great deal of water, boiled only long 
enough to sufficiently cook them, and immediately 
drained. Longer boiling makes them insipid in 
taste, and with too little water they turn a dark 
colour. 

Potatoes rank first in importance in the vegetable 
line, and consequently should be properly served. 
It requires some little intelligence to cook even so 
simple and common a dish as boiled potatoes. In 
the first place, all defective or green ones should be 
cast out; a bad one will flavour a whole dish. If 
they are not uniform in size, they should be made 
so by cutting after they are peeled. The best part 
of a potato, or the most nutritious, is next to the 
skin, therefore they should be pared very thinly, if 
at all; then (if old, the cores should be cut out) 
thrown into cold water salted a little, and boiled 



128 Us Two Cook Book 

until soft eDougb for a fork to pierce through easily ; 
drain immediately, and replace the kettle on the fire 
with the cover partly removed, until they are com- 
pletely dried. New potatoes should be put into boil- 
ing water, and when partly done salted a little. 
They should be prepared just in time for cooking, 
by scraping off the thin outside skin. They require 
about twenty minutes to boil. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash; pare, cutting off as little as posible of the 
potato; removing all dark spots and eyes; drop 
immediately into cold water. Put over to boil in 
plenty of boiling water, with a small handful of salt. 
Boil until easily pierced with a fork. Drain off all 
the water; and replace the kettle on the fire, with 
cover removed, and shake until completely dried. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare the potatoes as for boiling. Boil until 
thoroughly tender; drain off all the water; add a 
heaping tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of 
salt, a pinch of pepper and from one-third to one- 
half cup of hot milk; mash, beat, and stir with a 
wire potato masher until creamy; reheat and put in 
a hot covered dish. Place small bits of butter over 
the top and sprinkle with pepper. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Select large potatoes of uniform size and shape, 
wash and scrub them with a brush; bake them in a 



Vegetables 129 

hot oven about an hour; press them to see if done, 
but do not pierce them with a fork; when soft break 
the skin in one place and serve at once. They be- 
come watery if kept. 

RICED POTATOES. 

Prepare as for boiling; cook until tender; force 
through a potato ricer or strainer directly into the 
heated dish in which you wish to serve them. Bits 
of butter and a sprinkling of pepper may be added 
to the top. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Peel the potatoes; cut into very thin slices; drop 
into cold water; let soak one-half hour; drain off 
the water; dry the slices with a towel; drop, a hand- 
ful at a time, into very hot lard, stirring with a fork 
to prevent sticking to the kettle or each other. Fry 
until light brown and remove from the hot lard with 
a skimmer. Sprinkle with salt. 

PARISIENNE OR POTATO MARBLES. 

Pare and cut the potatoes in the shape of marbles 
with a French vegetable cutter. Fry the same as 
Saratoga Chips. Salt and serve hot. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Cold boiled potatoes are sliced, then put into a 
saute-pan with butter, and cooked until browned on 
both sides. If rolled in flour they will form a crisp 



13^ Us Two Cook Book 

crust. Raw potatoes are sliced or cut into any 
shape, and put into cold water for half an hour. 
They are then well dried on a napkin, and immersed 
in hot fat until done. Too many must not be put in 
the basket at once, as it cools the fat. Fry them to 
an amber colour; then drain, and place them on a 
paper in the oven until all are done. Serve them at 
once, as they lose their crispness if kept. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Butter a baking dish ; put in a layer of sliced raw 
potatoes; sprinkle with salt and pepper; add bits of 
butter. Fill the dish with these layers, covering the 
top with cracker crumbs and bits of butter. Pour in 
milk or cream until it can be seen through the top 
layer. Bake an hour, or until the potatoes are soft. 

FRIED RAW POTATOES. 

Peel three good-sized potatoes very evenly and cut 
them in thin slices. Put into a frying pan one tea- 
spoonful of butter and one of lard, and as soon as it 
boils add the sliced potatoes, sprinkling them over 
with salt and pepper. Cover them with a close-fit- 
ting lid, letting the steam partly cook them. Re- 
move the lid and then fry brown shaking and turn- 
ing them very carefully with a wooden ladle, so as to 
brown equally and not break the slices. 

POTATO BALLS. 

One pint of mashed potatoes; add a little milk or 
cream — just enough to moisten slightly; season with 



Vegetables 131 

salt and pepper. Beat two eggs; add one to the 
potatoes; form into balls; brush with the beaten 
egg; bake until brown. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

One pint of mashed potatoes; add one large table- 
spoonful of butter, salt and pepper and a few drops 
of onion juice. Mash with a potato masher until 
light. When cool add the yolks of two eggs well 
beaten. 

CHINESE STICKS. 

Use any mashed white potatoes that have been 
left over from another meal, mixing, with each cup- 
ful the beaten yolk of an egg. After sprinkling a 
board with flour put the mixture upon it and 
sprinkle it, too, with flour. Roll down to a thick- 
ness of less than an inch, and cut in narrow strips. 
Have ready some smoking-hot lard, and, dropping 
the strips into it, fry them until they have turned a 
delicate brown. When they are done lift them out, 
drain, and serve immediately on a hot dish. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake four medium-sized potatoes. When done, 
cut lengthwise in half, scoop out the inside, mixing 
it with butter, pepper, salt and two tablespoonfuls 
of cream; beat until light, return to the shell of the 
potato. Place them again in the oven until ready 
to serve. 



132 Us Two Cook Book 

SNOW POTATOES. 

Boil and mash the potatoes. Season with butter, 
pepper, salt and cream. Then run them through 
the potato ricer. 

PUFFED OR SOUFFLE POTATOES. 

Peel four potatoes ; cut the sides square, and trim 
off the corners, so as to give an oval shape. With 
one even cut slice them one-eighth of an inch thick 
the length of the potato; they must be all the same 
size and shape. Soak them in cold water for half 
an hour; dry them on a napkin, and fry them in fat 
which is only moderately hot until they are soft, 
but not coloured. Remove and place them on a 
sieve to drain and cool. Then immerse them in hot 
fat, when they will puff into balls. Toss the basket, 
and remove any that do not puff. Sprinkle with 
salt, and serve them on a napkin, or as a garnish. 
Holland potatoes best suit this purpose; it is im- 
possible to get the same result with most of the 
other varieties. 

POTATO SCONES. 

Three large boiled potatoes, mash carefully and 
salt; knead potato with a little flour, form into 
scones an inch thick. Bake in moderate oven and 
prick to prevent blistering. Split and butter 
plentifully, and serve at once, piping hot. 

SWEET POTATOES. 
Wash and scrub the potatoes; put them in boiling 



Vegetables 133 

water, and cook until they can be pierced with a 
fork ; then pour off the water. Cover the pot with a 
cloth, and draw it to the side of the range to let 
the potatoes steam for ten minutes. Peel them be- 
fore serving. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and scrub the potatoes without breaking 
the skin. Bake until soft; then break the skin in 
one place, and serve at once. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices one-quarter of 
an inch thick. Sprinkle them with salt and pepper; 
spread with butter, and sprinkle with sugar. Place 
them in a hot oven to brown. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil sweet potatoes until just done. Peel and lay 
them in a shallow pan. Sprinkle them with brown 
sugar and bits of butter. Put the pan in the oven 
and let the potatoes slightly brown. 

SWEET POTATO PUREE. 

Mash thoroughly the boiled potatoes, and season 
them well with salt, pepper, and butter; add enough 
hot milk to moisten them. Serve it the same as 
mashed white potato; or put it in a pudding-dish, 
brush the top with egg, and brown it in the oven. 
Serve with it a tomato sauce, and use as a luncheon 
dish. Either boiled or baked potatoes may be used. 



134 Us Two Cook Book 

BOILED ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape the stalks and lay them in cold water for 
half an hour; tie into rather loose bundles with soft 
string, and cook in hot, salted water for half an 
hour. Undo the strings and arrange the stalks upon 
a hot dish. Serve drawn or melted butter. 

ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

Use for this dish only the delicate tips of aspara- 
gus, less than two inches long. Boil in hot, salted 
water until tender; drain, turn into a deep dish, 
pepper, salt, butter, and pour a good white sauce 
over them — half a cupful to one cupful of the tips. 

ASPARAGUS AND CREAM SAUCE. 

Prepare the same as boiled asparagus. Pour over 
the asparagus, cream sauce made according to the 
Cream Sauce recipe. It may be used with or 
without toast. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Prepare the same as boiled asparagus, leaving 
enough water to make gravy; a small tablespoonful 
of butter; season with salt and pepper; thicken a 
little with flour and pour over the asparagus which 
has been laid on buttered toast. 

GREEN BEANS. 

String two quarts of beans and cut into two-inch 
lengths, wash and cook in boiling, salted water. 



Vegetables 135 

Boil in iiDcovered vessel until soft. Drain and add 
one tablespoonful of butter. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 
See under Meats, Pork and Beans page 63. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Put them into salted boiling water, and cook until 
tender, then drain off the water. Moisten them with 
butter, and season with salt and pepper; and add, if 
convenient, a little hot cream or cover with white 
sauce. 

YOUNG BOILED BEETS. 

After washing them, boil three-quarters of an 
hour, scrape, slice, and pour over them a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, two of vinegar, and a little pepper and 
salt. 

OLD BEETS (BOILED). 

Wash and cook in hot, salted water from two to 
three hours, according to age and size. Throw at 
once into cold water when done, to loosen the skins; 
peel quickly, slice thin, dish, and pour over them a 
sauce made of three tablespoonfuls of scalding 
vinegar, a tablespoonful of butter, and a little pep- 
per and salt. Serve hot. " Left-overs " of beets 
should be kept for salad and for garnishes. 

BEET GREENS. 
Wash carefully the leaves and stalks of young 



136 Us Two Cook Book 

beets. Boil until tender in an uncovered vessel. 
Drain and season with butter. Beet greens are very 
nice served with corn beef hash. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Select a small head of cabbage; remove the wilted 
leaves; quarter and cut out the heart. Drop and let 
stand in cold water for a few minutes; cook uncov- 
ered in boiling, salted water until tender. Drain, 
add butter and seasoning to taste. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Chop half a small cabbage and boil until tender. 
Drain. Make the following sauce and pour over: 
Heat one cup of milk or cream thickened with a 
dessert-spoonful of flour, add butter and season. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Cook as for Boiled Cabbage; drain and season; 
add butter; place in a buttered baking dish; cover 
with sauce made according to the White Sauce 
recipe; cover with a layer of crumbs and bits of 
butter; bake until brown. 

BOILED CARROTS. 

Wash, scrape and cut young carrots in slices or 
cubes; cook until soft in boiling, salted water. 
Drain, and season with butter, salt and pepper. 

CREAMED CARROTS. 
Slice new carrots and boil until tender in salted 



Vegetables 137 

water; use as little water as possible and prevent 
burning, so that the sweetness will remain in the 
vegetable, and not be thrown away in the water. 
Prepare a cream of two tablespoonfuls butter rubbed 
into two tablespoonfuls flour, and one pint of boil- 
ing milk or thin cream poured over it. Let all boil 
up once with the carrots. Sprinkle chopped parsley 
over the dish just before sending to the table. 



BOILED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil the cauliflower, tied in a net, in plenty of hot, 
salted water, in which has been stirred a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar; when done, drain and dish, the flower 
upward. Pour over it a cupful of drawn butter sea- 
soned with lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. Serve very 
hot. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER WITH TOMATO 
SAUCE. 

Cook as directed in last recipe, but when dished 
pour over it, instead of the white sauce, a cupful of 
strained tomato sauce, seasoned with butter, sugar, 
salt, and paprica. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Boil one cauliflower (after removing leaves) until 
tender. Strain off the water and place in a dish. 
Cover with grated cheese, some white sauce and 
some fried bread crumbs. Add some small pieces of 
butter and bake until a nice brown. 



138 Us Two Cook Book 

CELERY WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Remove the outer stalks of the celery for cooking, 
keep the centre to serve raw ; wash and cut the stalks 
for cooking into small pieces. Cook in boiling salt 
water until tender; drain and add to one and a half 
cups of sauce made according to the White Sauce 
recipe. 

CELERY FRITTERS. 

Prepare and cook the celery as for Celery with 
White Sauce. Dip the pieces, which should be about 
two inches in length in Fritter Batter and fry in hot 
lard. 

CORN ON THE COB. 

Select corn which is well filled, but not so old that 
the kernels cannot be easily cut with the finger nail. 
Remove the husks and pick off all silks. Cook for 
fifteen minutes in salted boiling water. 

STEWED SWEET CORN. 

Remove the husks and pick off all silks. Cut the 
corn from the cob with a sharp knife; scrape the 
cob; season with salt and pepper; add very little 
water and stew fifteen minutes. To a half pint of 
corn pulp add one teaspoonful of butter and a half 
teacup of cream or milk. 

CORN DROPS. 

Husk and pick off the silks from the corn; cut 



Vegetables 139 

from the cob until you have a teacupful of pulp; 
add one egg, well beaten, and quarter of a cup of 
flour; season with salt and pepper. Drop with a 
tablespoon into hot fat. 

CANNED CORN 

may be used satisfactorily in most dishes that call 
for green corn. If, before cooking it, the contents 
of the can be turned into a fine colander, and cold 
water poured over it to wash off the liquor in which 
it was preserved, the taste will be cleaner and 
sweeter. Like all other " canned goods,'' corn should 
be opened and poure'd out upon an open dish for 
some hours before it is used to get rid of the close, 
smoky flavour and smell. 

CORN SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Chop half a can of corn; add one egg well beaten, 
one teaspoonful of butter and a half pint of hot 
milk; season with salt and pepper; turn into a well 
greased baking-dish and bake until firm. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Remove the stems from the mushrooms; peel the 
cap and cut both into small pieces. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan ; melt ; add the 
mushrooms; season with salt and pepper; dredge 
with flour ; add a half cupful of boiling water ; cover 
!and^cook_slowly.for ten minutes. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 
'JVash^the^naushrooms ; remove the stems and place 



I40 Us Two Cook Book 

the caps in a broiler which has been well buttered. 
Broil five minutes, turning after the first three 
minutes. Be sure that the hollow side is up for the 
last broiling that the juices may be preserved. Put 
a small piece of butter and a sprinkling of salt and 
pepper in each cap. Remove carefully to pieces of 
dry toast. Serve hot. 

MUSHROOMS— FRIED. 

When peeled put them into hot butter and let 
them heat thoroughly through — too much cooking 
toughens them. Season well with butter, pepper, 
and salt. Serve on buttered toast; a teaspoon of 
wine or vinegar on each mushroom is a choice 
method. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

Pare a small egg-plant and cut in slices about 
one-quarter of an inch thick; drop in salt water and 
soak over night, if possible. In the morning put in 
fresh water for half an hour or until ready to fry. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper; dip in egg and roll 
in cracker crumbs. Fry in hot fat. 

ONIONS. 

"Oh! that some one would patent — 
Would patent, make, and sell — 
An onion, with an onion taste, 
But with a violet smell." 

BOILED ONIONS. 
Select as many onions as required. Remove the 



Vegetables 141 

skins, put over to cook in boiling water, changing 
the water in ten minutes, adding salt and boiling 
water to cover. Cook until tender. 

ONIONS IN CREAM. 

Prepare the same as for Boiled Onions. Pour 
over cream sauce made according to the Cream 
Sauce recipe. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Remove the skins from four medium sized onions. 
Cut in thin slices and put in a frying pan with a 
tablespoonful of butter or fryings. Season with salt 
and pepper and fry until brown. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Prepare and cook as for Boiled Onions. Cut in 
pieces and place in a buttered baking dish ; add a 
half cupful of cracker crumbs and bits of butter; 
cover with White Sauce and bake until brown. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Cook tender in two waters — the second salted and 
boiling. Drain well, pressing each onion in a coarse 
cloth, gentlj^, not to break it, and when they are 
dry, lay all together, side by side, in the bake-pan. 
Pepper, salt, and butter, and add a cupful of stock. 
Brown in a quick oven ; take out the onions and keep 
them hot in a deep dish while you thicken the gravy 
left in the pan with browned flour. Pour over the 
onions, set in the oven for two minutes, and serve. 



142 Us Two Cook Book 

ONION SOUFFLE. 

Half cup wliite sauce, one-quarter cup bread 
crumbs, one-half cup finely cut, chopped, cooked, 
cold onions, one-third cup milk, pinch white pepper, 
yolk one egg, white of one beaten dry, pinch salt. 
Soak the crumbs in cold milk, add white sauce, 
onions, yolks, pepper, salt, and last beaten white. 
Turn into buttered mould and bake forty-five 
minutes. 

BAKED OYSTER-PLANT (SALSIFY). 

Scrape and wash the salsify, then boil until per- 
fectly tender, then mash through a strainer. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Add a teaspoonful of 
butter and quarter cup of milk. Put in a bake-dish, 
cover with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and bake 
fifteen minutes. 

OYSTER-PLANT WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Wash; scrape and drop at once into cold water to 
which has been added a little vinegar to prevent dis- 
colouration. Cut in slices and cook in boiling salt 
water until tender. Drain and add sauce made 
according to the White Sauce recipe. 

OYSTER-PLANT CROQUETTES. 

Scrape the oyster-plant; drop in cold water; cut 
in slices and cook in boiling salt water until tender. 
Mash and when cool shape into round, flat cakes; 
roll in cracker crumbs; dip in beaten egg; roll again 
in crumbs and fry in hot lard untiljvell browned. 



Vegetables 143 

BOILED PARSNIPS. 

Peel and cut lengthwise. Cook in salted, boiling 
water until tender. Drain, add butter and season 
with salt and pepper. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Boil, scrape, and slice crosswise. Heat a table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan ; put in the parsnips 
and shake and turn until all are coated with the 
butter and very hot. Turn them into a deep dish 
and pour over them a sauce made bj adding to the 
butter left in the saucepan a teaspoonful of flour and 
thinning it with three or four tablespoonfuls of hot 
cream. Boil up once, and when you have covered 
the parsnips with it, serve. 

BUTTERED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender and scrape. Slice lengthwise and 
saute in a little butter heated in a frying-pan and 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and minced parsley. 
Shake and turn until the parsnips are well coated 
and hot through. Dish, and pour the butter over 
them. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender in salted, hot water; let them get cold, 
scrape off the skin and slice lengthwise. Pepper and 
salt, dredge with flour, and fry in hot dripping to a 
light brown. Drain and serve. 



144 Us Two Cook Book 

STEWED PARSNIPS. 

Scrape roots and slice across; cook in as little 
water as possible, as the sugar of the vegetable goes 
into the water and is thrown away if much water is 
drained off; watch carefully to prevent burning, and 
when the water is cooked away add butter, salt, 
pepper, and milk enough to cover. Thicken with a 
little flour. 

PARSNIP PATS. 

Boil parsnips until tender enough to press through 
a sieve. Season with salt and pepper, add one 
beaten egg; form into small pats and fry a delicate 
brown. 

GREEN PEAS BOILED. 

Shell and wash; put them in slightly salted boil- 
ing water, and cook them in this for twenty-five 
minutes. Drain well, turn into a hot dish, put a 
lump of butter the size of an egg upon them and a 
little pepper and salt. 

CANNED PEAS. 

Drain and leave in cold water for ten minutes, 
put on in salted boiling water, cook fifteen minutes; 
drop in a lump of white sugar and a small sprig of 
mint, and cook five minutes longer. Drain, butter, 
pepper and salt, and serve. 

PEAS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 
Prepare and cook as for Boiled Peas; add a pint 



Vegetables 145 

of milk, a tablespoonful of butter and a pinch of 
salt. Thicken with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
smooth in a small tablespoonful of butter. 

FRIED SWEET PEPPERS. 

Cut open crosswise, extract the seeds, cut the 
peppers into slices, lay in cold water for fifteen 
minutes, salt slightly, dust with flour and fry in hot 
cottolene for five or six minutes. They are an appe- 
tising accompaniment to cold meat or to boiled fish. 

RICE (VEGETABLE). 

Throw half a cup of rice into one quart of boiling 
water, slightly salted. Boil fast for twenty minutes, 
or until each grain is softened. Drain in colander 
and set in open oven to dry. 

SPINACH. 

Wash the spinach very carefully through several 
waters, as particles of sand are apt to lodge in the 
stems near the root. Cut away the roots before 
boiling. Boil twenty minutes in as little water as 
possible and not burn. Drain, press in the colander 
to remove all water; chop very fine, season with salt, 
pepper and butter, and garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Three ears of corn, half pint of string-beans, 
trimmed and cut into short pieces ; one teaspoonful 
of butter rolled in flour; half cupful of milk; pepper 



146 Us Two Cook Book 

and salt. Cut the corn from the cob, bruising as 
little as possible. Put over the fire with the beans in 
enough hot water, salted, to cover them, and stew 
gently half an hour. Turn off nearly all the water 
and add a half cupful of milk. Simmer in this, 
stirring to prevent burning, twenty minutes; add the 
floured butter, the pepper and salt, and stew ten 
minutes. Serve in a deep dish. 

BOILED SQUASH. 

Pare off the outer shell, take out the seeds, and 
cut into small pieces. Boil in hot, salted water until 
tender. If young, twenty minutes will do this; a 
longer time is required for full-grown squash. Drain 
well, rub through a vegetable-press, and return to 
the saucepan. Mix with salt, pepper, and a table- 
spoonful of butter made into a roux with a table- 
spoonful of flour. Stir and beat for a whole minute, 
until you have a creamy, smoking mass, and pour 
out. Squash cooked in this way is a very different 
thing from the watery stuff usually served under 
that name. 

BAKED SQUASH IN THE SHELL. 

Cut hubbard squash into pieces about four inches 
square; lay in baking pan, pepper and salt each 
piece, and put a lump of butter in the centre of 
each. Bake until tender and serve in the shell just 
as it comes from the oven. 

FRIED SQUASH. 
Cut the squash into thin slices, and sprinkle it 



Vegetables 147 

with salt; let it stand a few moments; then beat two 
eggs, and dip the squash into the egg; then fry it 
brown in butter. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS CREAMED. 

Wash and throw a cupful of sprouts into water. 
Simmer until tender (about three-quarters of an 
hour) . Drain off the water and pour over them a 
cream sauce. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water upon tomatoes to loosen their 
skins, and peel them. Slice, or cut into dice, and 
cook in a porcelain or agate-iron saucepan for 
twenty minutes. Drain off the superfluous liquid, 
pepper and salt it, and keep for sauces, stews, and 
soups. Stir into the hot tomatoes, for each quart, 
a tablespoonful of butter rolled in corn starch or in 
fine cracker-dust, a teaspoonful each of salt and 
pepper, and half a teaspoonful of grated onion. 
Cook thTee minutes longer and serve. 



'&' 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Peel with a sharp knife. Cut a piece from the top 
and gouge out most of the pulp, leaving the walls 
intact. Season what you have removed with pepper, 
salt, sugar, a few drops of onion-juice, and twice as 
much salad oil. When you have chopped the pulp 
rather coarsely, put it back into the tomatoes, 
replace the top, sprinkle with oil, paprica, and salt, 
and arrange upon a baking-pan. Bake, covered, for 



148 Us Two Cook Book 

twenty minutes and uncovered for five, and serve 
upon buttered Graham-bread toast. 

FRIED TOMATOES IN BATTER. 

A nice side-dish is made by dipping slices of ripe 
tomatoes into a batter made of flour, milk and an 
egg, and then frying them a delicate brown. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tomatoes horizontally in two; leave the 
skins on. Place them on a broiler with the skin side 
down; dust with salt and pepper, and broil without 
turning, over a moderate fire, fifteen to twenty 
minutes, or until tender. Lay them on a hot dish, 
and spread each piece with butter. 

TOMATO HASH. 

Butter the dish well ; put in a layer of sliced 
tomatoes, a layer of cold meat, sliced thin; then a 
layer of bread and butter, and so on until the dish 
is full, seasoning well with pepper and salt, and 
beaten eggs poured over the top. Bake brown. 

TOMATOES AND CHEESE. 

Half tin of tomatoes, half cup of grated cheese, 
dash of cayenne pepper and salt in cheese, lump of 
butter on top, two soda biscuits crumbed. Bake in a 
pudding-dish in oven. 

CREAMED TURNIPS. 
Wash and pare the turnips ; cut in cubes and cook 



Vegetables 149 

in salted boiling water until tender. Drain and 
pour over sauce made according to the White Sauce 
recipe. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Wash and pare turnips ; cut in quarters and cook 
until soft. Drain, mash, add butter and season 
with salt and pepper. 



1 50 Us Two Cook Book 



Vegetables 151 



1 52 Us Two Cook Book 



Vegetables 153 



154 Us Two Cook Book 



Vegetables 



155 



156 Us Two Cook Book 



Vegetables 157 



158 Us Two Cook Book 




159 



Eggs i6i 

EGGS. 

There are so many ways of cooking and dressing 
eggs that it seems unnecessary for the ordinary 
family to use only those that are the most practical. 

To ascertain the freshness of an egg, hold it 
between your thumb and forefinger in a horizontal 
position, with a strong light in front of you. The 
fresh egg will have a clear appearance, both upper 
and lower sides being the same. The stale egg 
will have a clear appearance at the lower side, while 
the upper side will exhibit a dark or cloudy 
appearance. 

Another test is to put them in a pan of cold 
water; those that are the first to sink are the 
freshest; the stale will rise and float on top; or, if 
the large end turns up in the water, they are not 
fresh. The best time for preserving eggs is from 
July to September. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. 

There are several recipes for preserving eggs, and 
we gi^^ first one which w^e know to be effectual, 
keeping them fresh from August until spring. Take 
a piece of quick-lime as large as a good-sized lemon, 
and two teacupfuls of salt ; put it into a large vessel 
and slack it with a gallon of boiling water. It will 
boil and bubble until thick as cream; when it is 
cold, pour off the top, which will be perfectly clear. 
Drain off this liquor, and pour it over your eggs; 
see that the liquor more than covers them. A stone 
jar is the most convenient — one that holds about six 
quarts. 



i62 Us Two Cook Book 

Another manner of preserving eggs is to pack them 
in a jar with layers of salt between, the large end 
of the egg downward, with a thick layer of salt at 
the top ; cover tightly, and set in a cool place. 

Some put them in a wire basket or a piece of 
mosquito net, and dip them in boiling water half a 
minute, then pack in sawdust. Still another manner 
is to dissolve a cheap article of gum arable, about 
as thin as mucilage, and brush over each egg with 
it; then pack in powdered charcoal; set in a cool, 
dark place. 

Eggs can be kept for some time by smearing the 
shells with butter or lard; then packed in plenty of 
bran or sawdust, the eggs not allowed to touch one 
another; or coat the eggs with melted paraflSne. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Three minutes boils eggs soft; six minutes boils 
eggs so yoke is not quite set ; ten minutes boils eggs 
hard ; twenty or thirty minutes boils eggs so yolks 
are mealy. They are said to be more digestible 
boiled as long as this, but the yolk is apt to darken. 
To have eggs jellied, put them into boiling water 
and then set dish back on range where the water 
will keep hot but not boil. In ten minutes the eggs 
will be cooked through; the whites will be like a 
jelly, and not hard as in boiled eggs. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Fill basin with boiling salted water; if the bottom 
of the basin is greased first, the eggs will not stick 
to the dish. Break each egg into a saucer, and let 



Eggs 163 

slide carefully into the basin ; keep hot but do not 
boil the water; when a film of white comes over the 
top, remove eggs to a hot dish ; put piece of butter 
on each egg; sprinkle with pepper. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Separate the number of eggs desired, being careful 
to preserve each yolk unbroken ; put whites in bowl ; 
beat stiff after salting suflQciently. Butter as many 
gem pans as there are eggs; dip a large spoonful or 
more of the stiff white into each pan ; drop the yolks 
carefully into the centre and bake until the white is 
very lightly browned. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Take number of eggs desired and boil hard ; break 
off shell ; cut in halves, across ; remove yolks, being 
careful not to break the hard boiled white. Put 
yolks in a chopping bowl and mash to a paste and 
then add a few mustard pickles chopped fine. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt and serve on a lettuce leaf 
with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

EGG TOAST. 

Brown a slice of bread nicely over the coals, dip 
it in hot water slightly salted, butter it, and lay on 
the top an egg that has been broken into boiling 
water, and cooked until the white has hardened; 
season the egg with a bit of butter and a crumb of 
salt. 

The best way to cook eggs for an invalid is to drop 



164 Us Two Cook Book 

them, or else pour boiling water over the egg in the 
shell and let it stand for a few minutes on the back 
of the stove. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Butter muffin pans or egg cups and drop an egg 
into each, taking care not to break the yolk. Season 
with salt and pepper; bake until the whites become 
firm; serve with toast and garnish with parsley. 

EGGS IN POTATO NESTS. 

Potatoes, eggs, butter, salt and pepper. How 
many eggs shall be used will depend upon the 
size of your family and the members' appetites. At 
least one potato of fair size should be allowed for 
each person. When the potatoes have been boiled 
mash them and shake in all the salt you dare. As 
soon as the potatoes have become cool enough to 
handle take up a spoonful and form into a ball. The 
hands may be used in shaping it and making it firm. 
With the bowl of the spoon make a depression in 
each ball, to resemble a bird's nest. Put all the balls 
in a buttered baking-pan or a pie-plate, and set 
away. In the morning slip them into the oven and 
as soon as they get hot break an egg into each nest, 
and season with salt, pepper and butter. Put back 
into the oven long enough to cook the eggs. Remem- 
ber that if you put the eggs on cold potatoes the 
under part will not get cooked. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS ON TOAST. 
Put butter size of large walnut in frying pan; 



Eggs 165 

when it melts pour in a quarter cup of milk; break 
four eggs into the milk; season with salt and pep- 
per; stir constantly until set sufficiently then dip 
quickly on small slices of buttered toast. 

ITALIAN EGGS ON TOAST. 

Boil three eggs fifteen minutes; chop the whites 
and rub the yolks through a sieve. Make a cream 
dressing as follows : a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a cup of warm milk; mix with the chopped 
whites. Serve on toast and scatter the yolks on top. 

OMELET. 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two 
teaspoons corn starch, one-quarter teaspoon Magic 
Baking Powder, three tablespoons of milk, season to 
taste; stir in whites last. When cooked fold over 
and remove to platter. 

PLAIN OMELET. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth that will stand 
alone, and the yolks to a smooth cream; add to the 
yolks, salt, pepper and a little milk ; then beat in the 
whites with the egg beater ; have the skillet hot and 
when the butter hisses, pour in the egg mixture; do 
not stir, but if there is a tendency to stick, run a 
broad knife blade under the omelet. If your oven is 
hot, set the omelet in for a few minutes as this will 
help make it form. When turning out on a platter, 
be careful not to break the omelet. 



i66 Us Two Cook Book 

BREAD OMELET. 

Two tablespoonfuls bread crumbs soaked in milk, 
two eggs, one tablespoonful melted butter, salt and 
pepper; soak bread soft, add beaten yolks and sea- 
soning, beating the whites and cook as an ordinary 
omelet, folding when set. 

HAM OMELET. 

One-quarter cup of chopped ham, two eggs, salt 
and pepper; beat eggs separately; add yolks to the 
minced ham ; season ; fold in the whites and fry in 
hot greased spider, folding over when set. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Two eggs beaten separately, half cup sweet milk 
and one tablespoonful flour, a little salt and stir 
whites of eggs in last; pour into well-buttered 
shallow pan and bake fifteen minutes. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Beat well four eggs ; add to them two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk and one tablespoonful of grated cheese; 
add a teaspoonful more of the cheese before folding. 
Turn out on a heated dish and grate a sprinkling of 
cheese over the omelet before serving. 



J 



Eggs 



167 



i68 Us Two Cook Book 



Eggs 



169 



i7o 



Us Two Cook Book 



Eggs 



171 



172 Us Two Cook Book 



Eggs 



173 



174 Us Two Cook Book 



Eggs 



175 



176 Us Two Cook Book 




177 



Beverages 179 

BEVERAGES. 

Boiling water is a very important desideratum in 
the making of a good cup of coffee or tea, but the 
average housewife is very apt to overlook this fact. 
Do not boil the water more than three or four 
minutes; longer boiling ruins the water for coffee or 
tea-making, as most of its natural properties escape 
by evaporation, leaving a very insipid liquid, com- 
posed mostly of lime and iron, that would ruin the 
best coffee, and give the tea a dark^ dead look, when 
it ought to be the reverse. 

Water left in the tea-kettle overnight must never 
be used for preparing the breakfast coffee ; no matter 
how excellent your coffee or tea may be, it will be 
ruined by the addition of water that has been boiled 
more than once. 

THE HEALING PROPERTIES OF TEA AND 

COFFEE. 

The medical properties of these two beverages are 
considerable. Tea is used advantageously in inflam- 
matory diseases and as a cure for the headache. 
Coffee is supposed to act as a preventive of gravel 
and gout, and to its influence is ascribed the rarity 
of those diseases in France and Turkey. Both tea 
and coffee powerfully counteract the effects of 
opium and intoxicating liquors; though, when taken 
in excess, and without nourishing food, they them- 
selves produce, temporarily at least, some of the 
more disagreeable consequences incident to the use 
of ardent spirits. In general, however, none but 
persons possessing great mobility of the nervous 



i8o Us Two Cook Book 

system, or enfeebled or effeminate constitutions, are 
injuriously affected by the moderate use of tea and 
coffee in connection with food. 

TEA. 

There is much diversity of opinion regarding tea. 
Many prefer the green teas, others the black and 
some like a mixture. Suit your own taste. Pour 
fresh boiling water into the pot and allow it to 
warm before brewing the tea. Allow a teaspoonful 
of tea for each person to be served and one teaspoon- 
ful for the pot. Pour boiling water over the tea and 
allow to stand for three minutes on the back of the 
stove or in a warm place. Never allow the tea to 
boil. 

COFFEE. 

For each cup of water allow one heaping dessert- 
spoonful of finely ground coffee; put coffee in mix- 
ing bowl; add one egg (or half egg); mix thor- 
oughly, adding a little cold water. Turn the coffee 
into pot and add, measuring with a coffee-cup, the 
required water — cold. Stuff spout of pot with piece 
of brown paper to prevent escape of aroma. Cook 
slowly, stirring from time to time. It should not 
come to a boil in less than ten minutes. Allow to 
boil from one to three minutes. Settle with a small 
quantity of cold water. Serve in the pot in which 
coffee is made. 

BLACK COFFEE. 

Prepare as above, using double the amount of 



Beverages i8i 

ground coffee. Serve in small cups, and give the 
drinkers their choice of sugar or no sugar. Black 
coffee is a good digestive agent and is far more 
wholesome than -coffee mixed with cream or milk. 

CAF£ FRAPPfi. 

To one quart strong coffee sweetened, add the 
beaten white of one egg and freeze. Serve in glasses 
with whipped cream on top, or with vanilla ice 
cream. 

COCOA. 

Mix three teaspoonfuls of cocoa with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and a pinch of salt; add half cup 
of boiling water and stir until the paste is smooth; 
add one and a half cups more of boiling water and 
let all come to a boil. Put two cups of sweet milk 
in a saucepan and scald and add to the cocoa. Beat 
with a Dover egg-beater until a froth begins to form. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape chocolate fine, mix with a little cold water; 
add this to equal parts of milk and water, and boil 
w^ell, being careful that it does not burn. Sweeten 
to taste, and serve hot. It is improved by laying 
upon the surface of each cup a teaspoonful of cream. 

LEMONADE. 

Four lemons, rolled, peeled, and sliced; four large 
spoonfuls of sugar; one quart of water. Put lemons 
(sliced) and sugar into a pitcher and let them stand 



1 82 Us Two Cook Book 

for an hour, then add water and ice. If you substi- 
tute Apollinaris for plain water you have a most 
refreshing drink. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Two fresh eggs, two tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 
one and a half tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, one 
glass of finely chipped ice. Shake well in shaker, 
strain, and serve. 

ORANGEADE. 

Juice of two oranges, two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, four teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, one 
glass of finely chopped ice, two glasses of water, 
shake well in a large shaker. Serve in soda glasses, 
and dress with fruit. 

LIMEADE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of lemon syrup, two table- 
spoonfuls of lime juice. Pour over finely chipped ice 
in mineral glasses. Sweeten to taste with powdered 
sugar. 

LEMONADE WITH GRAPE JUICE. 

Make a good, strong lemonade; sweeten; add one 
small bottle or one pint of grape juice; pour into 
glasses over chopped ice. Any other good fruit juice 
may be substituted. 

LEMON SYRUP. 
Take the juice of six lemons; grate the rind of 



Beverages 183 

three in it, let it stand over night. Then take three 
pounds of white sugar and make a thick syrup. 
When it is quite cool strain the juice into it, and 
squeeze as much oil from the grated rind as will suit 
the taste. Put into bottles, tightly corked, for 
future use. A tablespoonful in a goblet of ice water 
will make a delicious drink. 

BOSTON CREAM (A SUMMER DRINK). 

Make a syrup of four pounds of white sugar with 
four quarts of water ; boil ; when cold add four 
ounces of tartaric acid, one and a half ounces of 
essence of lemon, and the whites of six eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth ; bottle. A wineglass of the cream to 
a tumbler of water, with sufficient carbonate of soda 
to make it effervesce. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Fill a jar with red raspberries picked from the 
stalks. Pour in as much vinegar as it w^ill hold. Let 
it stand ten days, then strain it through a sieve. 
Don't press the berries, just let the juice run through. 
To every pint add one pound loaf sugar. Boil it 
like other syrup; skim, and bottle when cold. 

RASPBERRY CUP. 

Mash and strain one pint of red currants; strain 
and pour the juice over shaved ice in cups; add one 
teaspoonful of pineapple juice to each cup, and put 
on the top several fresh red raspberries. 



1 84 Us Two Cook Book 

STRAWBERRY WINE. 

Mash your strawberries and currants. To every 
three quarts of strawberry juice, add three pints of 
currant juice, and for every quart of the combined 
juices add one pound of loaf sugar and one quart 
of water; strain and put into a clean, sweet cask. 
Leave uncorked until fermented, then put in bottles 
and seal. This wine is very nice served with 
chopped ice. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Dissolve two pounds of crushed sugar in three 
quarts of water; boil down to two quarts; drop in 
the white of an egg while boiling; then strain, and 
put in the tartaric acid ; when cold drop in the lemon 
to your taste; then bottle and cork. Shake two or 
three times a day. 

CHERRY CORDIAL. 

To six pounds of cherries add three pounds of 
sugar and one gallon of whiskey. Shake the jar 
often for the first three weeks, then bottle. 

GINGER CORDIAL. 

To one pound of picked currants, red or black, add 
one quart of whiskey, one ounce of bruised ginger; 
put in a stone jar and let it stand for twenty-four 
or thirty -six hours; strain through a flannel bag, 
and add half a pound of sugar; when it is all melted, 
bottle. 



Beverages 185 

WHITE CURRANT CORDIAL. 

To every quart of white currants bruised, add one 
quart of best whiskey, the rind of a fresh lemon 
pared very thin, let it stand for two days, then 
strain or filter. To the above add one pound of loaf 
sugar, quarter of an ounce of the best ginger, and 
juice of the lemon. Bottle and seal ; it will be fit 
for use in a month, and the longer it is kept the 
better it is. 

RED CURRANT CORDIAL. 

To two quarts of red currants, put one quart of 
whiskey; let it stand twenty-four hours, then bruise 
and strain through a flannel bag. To every two 
quarts of this liquor, add one pound of loaf sugar, 
and quarter of a pound of ginger well bruised and 
boiled ; let the whole stand to settle, then strain or 
filter; bottle and cork, seal the corks tightly. 

It is an improvement to have half red raspberry 
juice if the flavour is liked. The above is fit for use 
in a month. 

RED CURRANT WINE. 

For every gallon of water take one gallon of cur- 
rants off the stalks, bruise well and let them stand 
over night. Next morning mash them well with 
your hands and strain through a hair sieve. To 
every gallon of the liquor add four pounds of sugar. 
Rinse the cask well with brandy and strain the 
liquor again when putting in, by which you will 
see whether the sugar is dissolved. Lay the bung 
lightly on and stop it up in ten days. 



1 86 Us Two Cook Book 

MILK PUNCH. 

To a glass of rich, sweetened milk, add two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy ; serve very cold with shaved ice. 

EGG-NOG. 

For one glass of egg-nog, beat the yolk of one egg 
until light; add one tablespoonful of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of the best brandy or whiskey, stir well 
and add to a glass nearly full of cream or rich milk ; 
beat the white of the egg and add to the contents of 
the glass. Grate nutmeg over the top if desired. 

HOT EGG MILK. 

Two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one ounce cream, one 
egg, hot milk to fill an eight-ounce mug. Top with 
whipped cream and sprinkle with nutmeg. If there 
is no facility for keeping hot milk, use about two 
ounces of cream, and fill the mug with hot water. 

DANDELION WINE. 

Two quarts of dandelion flowers; cover with half 
gallon of water and boil; strain, and when luke- 
warm add three lemons, two pounds of white sugar 
and one-quarter royal yeast-cake ; let it stand about 
ten days, or until done working, then strain bottle 
and seal. 

MILK PUNCH FOR INVALIDS. 

One-half pint of milk made very sweet, lialf a wine 
glass of rum, stir well together. Grate a little nut- 



Beverages 187 

meg over the top of the glasses. Serve with straws 
in each glass. 

WiENE WHEY FOR INVALIDS. 

Sweeten to taste half a pint of milk, put in a 
double boiler and let come to a boil, throw in one 
glass of cherry wine. When the curd forms, strain 
the whey through a clean muslin bag into small soda 
glasses. 

UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE. 

Wash, pick over and drain ten pounds of grapes, 
from which the stems have been removed. Put into 
a preserving kettle, and add one cupful of cold 
water. Heat until the stones and pulp separate, 
then strain through a jelly-bag; add three pounds of 
granulated sugar, heat to the boiling point, and 
bottle. Ten pounds of grapes will make one gallon 
of grape juice. 



1 88 Us Two Cook Book 



Beverages 189 



1 90 Us Two Cook Book 



Beverages 191 



192 Us Two Cook Book 



Beverages 193 



194 Us Two Cook Book 



Beverages 195 



196 Us Two Cook Book 



■Hi 







BREAD 

AND 

CAKES 

Thpre is scent 

of Syrian myrrh, 
There is incense, 

fhere is spice 
There are delicate 

caKes and loaves, 
Cakes of meal 

and polypi 

Cncian Qdc 




197 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 199 

BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING BREAD. 

The first thing required for making wholesome 
bread is the utmost cleanliness; the next is the 
soundness and sweetness of all the ingredients used 
for it; and, in addition to these, there must be 
attention and care through the whole process. 

Salt is always used in bread-making, not only on 
account of its flavour, which destroys the insipid raw 
state of the flour, but because it makes the dough 
rise better. 

In mixing with milk, the milk should be boiled — 
not simply scalded, but heated to boiling over hot 
water — then set aside to cool before mixing. Simple 
heating will not prevent bread from turning sour 
in the rising, while boiling will act as a preventative. 
So the milk should be thoroughly scalded, and 
should be used when it is just blood warm. 

Too small a proportion of yeast, or insufficient 
time allowed for the dough to rise, will cause the 
bread to be heavy. 

If either the sponge or the dough be permitted to 
overwork itself — that is to say, if the mixing and 
kneading be neglected when it has reached the 
proper point for either — sour bread will probably 
be the consequence in warm weather, and bad bread 
in any. The goodness will also be endangered by 
placing it so near a fire as to make any part of it 
hot, instead of maintaining the gentle and equal 
degree of heat required for its due fermentation. 

Heavy bread will also most likely be the result of 



200 Us Two Cook Book 

making the dough very hard, and letting it become 
quite cold, particularly in winter. 

As a general rule, the oven for baking bread 
should be rather quick, and the heat so regulated as 
to penetrate the dough without hardening the out- 
side. The oven-door should not be opened after the 
bread is put in until the dough is set or has become 
firm, as the cool air admitted will have an unfavour- 
able effect on it. 

The dough should rise and the bread begin to 
brown after about fifteen minutes, but only slightly. 
Bake from fifty to sixty minutes, and have it brown, 
not black or whitey brown, but brown all over when 
well baked. 

When the bread is baked, remove the loaves imme- 
diately from the pans, and place them where the air 
will circulate freely around them and thus carry off 
the gas which has been formed, but is no longer 
needed. 

Never leave the bread in the pan or on a pine 
table to absorb the odour of the wood. If you like 
crusts that are crisp do not cover the loaves ; but to 
give the soft, tender, wafer-like consistency which 
many prefer, wrap them, while still hot, in several 
thicknesses of bread-cloth. When cold put them in a 
stone jar, removing the cloth, as that absorbs the 
moisture and gives the bread an unpleasant taste 
and odour. Keep the jar well covered, and carefully 
cleansed from crumbs and stale pieces. Scald and 
dry it thoroughly every two or three days. A yard 
and a half square of coarse table linen makes the 
best bread-cloth. Keep in good supply; use them 
for no other purpose. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 201 

Some people use scalding water in making wheat 
bread; in that case the flour must be scalded and 
allowed to cool before the yeast is added, — then pro- 
ceed as above. Bread made in this manner keeps 
moist in summer, much longer than when made in 
the usual mode. 

When using compound yeast dissolve in a small 
quantity of lukewarm water for a short time before 
using. 

WHITE BREAD. 

Take half a pint of peeled potatoes cut into small 
pieces; boil them in one pint of water, skim out the 
potatoes and mash fine. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
fine flour to the potatoes, pour over the potato 
water and stir till smooth. When cool, add two 
tablespoonfuls of yeast and a half teaspoonful of 
salt. Let it rise over night. In the morning, take 
the bread-bowl filled with flour, pour half a pint of 
boiling water in the centre, and mix. Add enough 
cold water to make lukewarm ; then pour in the 
sponge made the night before, mix the dough soft 
and knead one-half hour. Put back into bread-bowl 
and set to rise. When light, knead down and set to 
rise again. Then knead into loaves, put into bread 
pans and when light bake in a moderate oven. This 
quantity will make two loaves. 

WHITE BREAD, NO. 2. 

To one pint of lukewarm water add half cake of 
compressed yeast, dissolved in a little warm water. 
Sift two quarts of flour into a mixing pan; add one 



202 Us Two Cook Book 

tablespooDful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt and 
one tablespoonful of soft butter; work well through 
the flour; make a hollow in the centre; add one pint 
of sweet milk, the water and yeast and work into a 
soft batter, leaving enough of the flour around the 
side of the pan to keep the dough from sticking to 
it. Cover and stand in a warm place to rise. When 
the batter is light enough to be made into a loaf, the 
top will be covered with bubbles. Stir in the flour 
which is in the pan and add enough more to make a 
loaf which may be easily handled ; knead into loaves; 
let stand in a warm place until light; rub tops of 
the loaves with melted butter; bake in a moderately 
hot oven, shifting the loaves that they may be evenly 
baked. This makes three loaves of bread and a few 
light rolls. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One cupful of sour milk, two-thirds cupful of 
molasses, two cupfuls of yellow cornmeal, one cupful 
of graham flour, one teaspoonful of soda, a pinch of 
salt, and one of ginger. Steam two hours in a cov- 
ered crock in a kettle of boiling water; the water 
must be boiling before setting in the crock. Mix the 
salt with the meal and flour, then add the molasses ; 
mix the soda and sour milk together and add to the 
rest. Mix carefully, as a great deal depends on the 
mixing. After steaming two hours set in oven to 
brown ten minutes. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 
Three cups graham flour, one cupful white flour, 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 203 

one tablespoonful salt; four tablespoons of molasses, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter or lard, three-fourths 
of a cup of warm water. Mix the ingredients in the 
order given and add sufficient lukewarm water to 
make a soft dough. When the dough is light, beat 
it and pour it into the bread pans, filling them half 
full. When light, bake in a moderate oven. 

QUICK GRAHAM BREAD. 

One pint sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, half 
a cup of molasses, half teaspoon salt. Stir in 
graham flour to make a stiff dough, and bake in a 
quick oven. A little shortening makes it more 
tender. 

GLUTEN BREAD. 

Take one and one-half pints gluten flour, one pint 
lukewarm (not hot) water in which half of a com- 
pressed veast cake has been previously dissolved, and 
one small teaspoonful of salt. Mix all together and 
beat thoroughly with a spoon. The mixture must 
not be kneaded. Set to rise, and when light, add 
one tablespoonful of gluten flour. Beat again, put 
into pan, set to rise, and when light, bake in a 
moderately hot oven for about fifty-five minutes. 
This makes one loaf. 

PULLED BREAD. 

Pulled bread is a delightful sort of bread, which 
it is quite fashionable to serve with the cheese course 
at dinners. This bread is not difficult to prepare in 
any household where good bread is made. 



204 Us Two Cook Book 

When the semi-weekly bread is prepared lay aside 
one small loaf of the dongh and divide it into six 
parts. Roll these parts into straight even lengths, 
as long as a good-sized bread pan. Press all these 
strands together at one end, and weave them into a 
braid to form one loaf. Put this loaf into a rather 
broad bread pan, flattening it somewhat so that it 
fills the pan on all sides. Let it rise for half an 
hour. Rub a little butter over it, so as to be sure 
that the crust does not bake hard. Bake it in a 
rather quick oven. It should be thin enough to bake 
through in half an hour. When it is done let it 
rest for fifteen minutes. Now tear it apart. It will 
come apart in the long slender strips of which it 
was composed before it was baked. Put these strips 
on a tin baking-pan and set them in a hot oven for 
fifteen minutes, when they should be quite crisp and 
well coloured. They are nice served with morning 
coffee. 

MILK BREAD. 

To a pint of warm new milk add a half com- 
pressed yeast cake which has been dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water, and a teaspoonful of melted butter. 
Stir into this a cup of sifted flour, a teaspoonful of 
sugar and pinch of salt. Beat well, and set to rise. 
When light, work in flour enough to make a firm 
dough. Raise again, place in pans; raise again, 
and bake in a moderately slow oven. 

RISEN CORN BREAD. 
Dissolve half a cake of compressed yeast in cupful 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 205 

lukewarm water, and stir in one and one-half cups 
of wheat flour. Let rise until light — about one and 
a half hours — and then rub together one-quarter cup 
of sugar, a teaspoonful of butter, one egg and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Pour one cup of boiling milk on 
one large pint of yellow meal; let cool ; mix in with 
the above and put in a well-greased flat pan. Let it 
rise for ten or fifteen minutes and bake in a hot oven 
for from ten to fifteen minutes. 

If made over night, pour one and one-half cups of 
boiling milk on the meal, let cool, mix in the other 
ingredients and let stand until morning; then add 
one-half cup of warm milk, put in pan, etc., as 
before. 

CORN BREAD. 

To one cup of sour milk or sour cream, add one- 
half teaspoonful of soda. Stir into this, two eggs 
well beaten, and a pinch of salt; add one cup of 
cornmeal and one cup of flour; beat thoroughly and 
bake in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty 
minutes. 

SPICED RAISIN LOAF. 

Two cups of warm milk, flour to make a soft 
dough, a quarter of a cup of old-fashioned yeast; 
let it stand in a warm place till light. Then add 
half a cup of butter, half a cup of brown sugar, a 
teaspoon of cinnamon, cloves and allspice, three eggs, 
one pound of seeded raisins, bread flour enough to 
make it smooth and soft. Dough kneaded well; 
put in a warm place to rise; when light mould in a 



2o6 Us Two Cook Book 

loaf; let rise again; \Yhen it has risen to the top of 
the pan bake in a moderate oven for one hour. This 
makes a large loaf. 

% VIRGINIA SPOON BREAD. 

One pint sweet milk, one-half cupful white corn- 
meal, one-half teaspoonful salt, one beaten egg, one 
tablespoonful butter. 

Here's a delicate and delicious corn bread that is 
easily made. A cup of the milk must be heated to 
the boiling point and have stirred into it the corn- 
meal and salt. Cook for five minutes, then beat the 
butter and one-quarter cupful of the cold milk into 
the mush, and, after adding the egg, beat well once 
more. Gradually beat in the rest of the milk. Put 
the mixture into a well-buttered granite or tin dish 
and bake for half an hour in rather a hot oven. And 
be particular to serve at once in the baking dish. 
Too many good things are ruined simply through a 
little carelessness in this respect. 

CURRANT BUNS. 

Two coffee-cups bread dough, two eggs, one cup 
sugar, spices, a few currants. Mould like rusks and 
let them rise before baking. 

PLAIN BUNS. 

Take one large cofl'ee-cup of warm milk, one- 
quarter cake of yeast and salt; make sponge; let 
rise; when light work into a dough, adding one-half 
tea-cup of sugar, one egg, butter twice the size of 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 207 

an egg; let rise; roll into a sheet; butter it; cut into 
strips three inches wide and six inches long; fold 
not quite in the middle; let rise again and bake; 
when in a dough, if it rises before you are ready, 
push it down. Excellent. 



RUSKS. 

To one tumbler of warm milk add a half gill of 
yeast, three eggs and a coffee-cup of sugar beaten 
together, two ounces of butter rubbed into flour, of 
which use only enough to enable you to mould it; 
let it rise over night; when very light, roll and put 
on tins to rise again, after which bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Sift one quart of flour into a bowl ; make a hole 
in the middle, put in three level tablespoonfuls of 
lard, one heaping tablespoonful of white sugar, one 
cupful of warm sweet milk, one-half teacup of yeast, 
one teaspoonful of salt. 

Let this stand in a warm place without stirring 
until light, then stir to a soft dough. Use a little 
more flour if necessary. About two hours before 
supper, work out the dough, using a little more 
flour. Roll out about half an inch thick, cut with a 
biscuit cutter, butter lightly with soft butter, fold 
over and put in the pans a little way apart. Let rise 
until tea time and bake in a quick oven. These 
rolls must be started by nine o'clock; earlier in 
winter. 



2o8 Us Two Cook Book 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS, WITH BAKING 
POWDER. 

These are not the old original Parker House Rolls, 
but are quicker made: sift one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of baking powder with one pint of flour; 
put in a teaspoon ful of cold butter; add one well- 
beaten egg, one teaspoonful of sugar, and one-half 
teaspoonful salt; rub well together, and make into 
a dough, with a cup of cold milk. Roll out less 
than half-inch thick. Cut with a large biscuit-cutter. 
Spread soft butter over the top of each, fold them 
together, and lay a little apart on greased tins. 
Brush over the tops with sweet milk and set 
immediately in a hot oven. 

\YI / BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

To two cups of flour add four teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and a pinch of salt; sift; add one 
tablespoonful of lard and one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, or two tablespoonfuls of either butter or lard. 
Work the shortening into the flour with the tips of 
the fingers; add enough milk to make a soft dough; 
toss onto a floured board; roll out lightly to one- 
half inch thickness; cut with a biscuit cutter; bake 
in a very quick oven. Keep in mind that biscuit 
dough cannot be handled like raised bread dough, 
of which you make rolls. Kneading improves the 
bread dough, but biscuit dough must be handled as 
lightly and as little as possible. Do not try to 
shape the biscuits with the fingers as you do rolls. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 209 

BUTTERMILK BISCUIT. 

One cup moderately sour buttermilk and stir in 
it a half teaspoonful of soda. Pour into the flour 
bowl where there has been made a hole in the middle 
of the flour. Add one-quarter teaspoonful of salt 
and one-quarter cup of soft lard. Mix with the 
fingers into a soft dough. Do not get in too much 
flour — it must be quite soft. Roll out one inch thick 
and cut; place not too close together on a tin and 
bake in a very hot oven. 

SALLY LUNN FOR BREAKFAST. 

Two teacups of flour, one tablespoon of sugar, 
one of lard, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder; use half milk and half water to a thin 
batter, and bake in a quick oven. 

LUNCH BISCUIT. 

Two cups (large) of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one teaspoonful sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
salt, one egg, one cupful sweet milk, one large table- 
spoonful butter. Cut into small biscuits, handle as 
little as possible, and bake in a quick oven. 

EGG ROLLS. 

Two eggs, well beaten, one small cup of milk, one 
tablespoonful of lard or melted butter, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, and enough flour to make a 
stiff biscuit. Roll out, cut desired size, bake in a hot 
oven. Nice biscuit for tea. If liked, add two table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar. 



2IO Us Two Cook Book 

DIXIE BISCUIT. 

One cup milk, half teaspoonful lard, one teaspoon- 
ful butter, one teaspoonful sugar, half teaspoonful 
salt, one-quarter jeast cake, one egg, three cupfuls 
flour. Put the milk on the stove in a double boiler 
together with the butter, lard, salt and sugar, and 
when the milk has become scalded let it cool to blood 
heat. Dissolve the yeast in a little of the cooled milk 
and then stir it into the milk in the double boiler. 
Into the bucket or bowl in which the biscuits are to 
rise sift one cupful and a quarter of flour. Mix to a 
stiff batter with the milk that has been prepared. 
Beat the egg light and add it to the mixture; then 
beat the batter and keep beating it as for a cake, for 
the more you beat the better will the biscuit be. 
Scrape the batter from around the sides of the bucket 
and cover closely. Let the batter rise in a warm 
place — in winter in a temperature between seventy 
and eighty degrees. For six o'clock tea ptit the 
sponge to rise at ten in the morning. At three in the 
afternoon have a mound of sifted flour on the bread- 
board — about one and a half cupfuls — and knead as 
for ordinary biscuit until the dough is soft enough to 
handle easily, then roll out to about half an inch in 
thickness. Cut with a small cutter — say one with a 
diameter of about one inch and a half. Brush the top 
of each biscuit with melted butter, put two together 
and brush the top with melted butter and lard. Put 
the biscuits in the pans, being careful that they do 
not touch each other. Set them in a warm place, 
cover them, and let them rise until they are twice 
their original size. It will take about two hours. 
Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a hot oven. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 211 

MUFFINS. 

Half cup scalded milk, half cup boiling water, a 
tablespoon butter, a tablespoon granulated sugar, 
half teaspoon salt, one-quarter cake pressed yeast, 
one eggy two cui)s flour. Add butter, sugar and salt 
to the scalded milk and water. When lukewarm add 
the yeast, and when that is dissolved add the egg and 
flour and beat all well together. Place the crock of 
this mixture in a warm room for over night. The 
next day you fill buttered rings two-thirds full of 
this batter, and set them aside till risen to the top 
of the rings. Bake half an hour. They should be 
ready for baking in time for an early lunch if mixed 
at ten o'clock or later the night before. 

MILK MUFFINS. 

One and one-half cups of flour, one and one-half 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one pinch salt, and v 
enough milk to make a very light batter; beat till it 
becomes a cream. Butter the tins well and drop the 
mixture into pans. Fill half full and bake fifteen 
minutes in a very hot oven. 

SWISS MUFFINS. 

Sift one heaping cupful flour three times with one 
teaspoonful baking powder and a scant half dessert- 
spoonful of salt, half a cupful each of milk and 
water; add to this one well-beaten egg, one teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, one large tablespoonful of butter; stir 
well, then add to the flour. Bake in muffin rings 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve hot with maple 
syrup. 



/ 



212 Us Two Cook Book 

DELICATE WHEAT MUFFINS. 

One cupful flour, one cupful milk, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful butter, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
one-quarter teaspoonful salt. After putting the salt 
and baking powder with the flour, sift the flour. The 
next step is to rub the butter into the flour; then add 
the milk and afterward the egg, beaten separately. 
The whole mixture must now be beaten well and then 
put into buttered and floured muffin-tins for baking 
in a hot oven for about thirty minutes or a little 
longer. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

One scant cup of boiled rice, one egg, tablespoon- 
ful of v/hite sugar, a little salt, one and a half cups 
of milk, one and a half cups flour, one teaspoonful 
baking powder in the flour, tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Bake in muffin tins. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls of graham flour, two pinches of salt, 
one tablespoonful of molasses, one egg, and one table- 
spoonful of butter. Set to rise and bake for fifteen 
minutes in mufiSn rings. 

FEATHER MUFFINS. 

Beat together one teaspoonful each of lard and 
sugar, add the yolk of one egg, one gill of milk, one- 
half pint of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking 
powder and a little salt; lastly the well-beaten white 
of the egg. Bake in hot oven. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 213 

y/ CORN MUFFINS. 'U 

Beat two eggs very light, add one teaspoonful of 
melted butter, one tablespoonfiil of brown sugar, two 
teacupfuls corn meal, one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour, to which add one teaspoonful of baking powder 
and a cupful of milk. Mix thoroughly, pour into 
greased mufiSn tins and bake in a quick oven. 

POP OVERS. 

Half cup flour, one-third cup milk, one ^gg^ a tea- 
spoonful of butter, a little salt; to be baked in 
scallops in a very quick oven. 

WHEAT GEMS. 

One teacupful of milk, one full cupful of wheat 
flour, a pinch of salt, and one beaten egg. Bake in 
gem-pans. 

RYE GEMS. 

One cup of warm milk with half teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in it, a pinch of salt, one o^gg^ well 
beaten. Rye flour enough to make a thin batter. 
Bake in gem-pans. 

GRAHAM GEMS (WITH BAKING POWDER). 

One teaspoonful of butter, one beaten Qg'g^ three- 
quarters cup of milk, a tablespoonful of sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, in graham flour enough 
for a good batter. Bake as above. A change in this 
may be made by taking three-quarters cup of sour 
milk instead of sweet, and one-quarter teaspoonful 



214 Us Two Cook Book 

of soda. Bake as before. Tear gems open with a 
fork, and butter. 



OATMEAL GEMS. 

Half cupful of oatmeal soaked over night in half 
cupful of water. In the morning, add half cupful 
sour milk, half cupful flour, three-quarters of tea- 
spoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful butter, a tablespoonful of sugar. Mix, 
and bake in hot, well-buttered gem-pans. If too 
moist, add a little more flour. Half cupful of sweet 
milk, and half teaspoonful of baking powder can be 
used instead of sour milk and soda. 



BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Beat the yolk of an egg until light; add one cup 
of milk and two cups of flour, into which has been 
sifted two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; add a 
pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of melted butter or 
lard ; stir in the beaten white of the egg and bake on 
a hot griddle. 

CRUMPETS. 

One teaspoonful butter and warm in a saucepan; 
when the butter melts, take it from the fire, let it 
cool a little and mix with it one well-beaten egg, half 
teaspoonful salt and enough flour to make it into a 
batter; lastly, put with it one-quarter cup yeast. 
Cover and let steam in a warm place for fifteen 
minutes. Bake the crumpets slightly in rings on an 
iron griddle plate, well greased. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 215 

INDIAN BANNOCK. 

One and quarter cupfuls boiling water, one-third 
cupful coarse Indian meal, pinch of salt, one tea- 
spoon of butter. Pat on the boiling water, add the 
salt and butter, and stir the meal in slowly. Con- 
tinue the stirring and boiling until the mixture is 
smooth, thick and stiff. Probably it will require 
about fifteen minutes. Have ready on the stove some 
buttered tin sheets, very hot. Take a spoonful of 
the batter at a time and drop little rounds on the 
tins. Let them cook on top of the stove for a few 
minutes; then bake in the oven for about a quarter 
of an hour. 

FLOUR PANCAKES. 

One pint sour milk, one egg, a little salt and one 
teaspoonful soda. Make a batter with flour, and bake 
on a hot griddle. To be eaten hot with maple syrup. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One cupful of buckwheat flour, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one cupful of lukewarm water, and one- 
eighth of a yeast cake dissolved in three tablespoon- 
fuls of water. Mix thoroughly, and set to rise over 
night. Before baking, add one teaspoonful of 
molasses, and one large pinch of soda dissolved in 
three tablespoonfuls of water. Beat well together, 
and bake on a soap-stone griddle. Serve cakes hot. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 
One cup soft boiled rice, one-half cup milk, three 



2i6 Us Two Cook Book 

eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, three table- 
spoonfuls flour. Fry immediately after adding eggs. 

^ WAFFLES. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs until light; add one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful of 
salt and one pint of sweet milk ; stir in enough flour 
to make a thin batter; add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Have waffle irons hot and 
well greased ; cover well with the batter, taking care 
not to get too much in or it will run out when the 
irons are closed. 

WAFFLES, NO. 2. 

Small cup and a half of milk, one cup of flour, one 
egg; mix in flour one teaspoon of baking powder, one- 
half teaspoon of salt. Grease iron (special iron for 
waffles) well and have hot. 

BREAD CRUMB PANCAKES. 

One cupful bread crumbs, one cupful sweet milk, 
one egg, half tablespoonful butter^ half cupful flour, 
one teaspoonful baking powder, half teaspoonful salt. 
Bear in mind at the beginning that the bread crumbs 
must be fine and that your measurement of them 
must be rather scant. These crumbs must be soaked 
in the milk until soft and then beaten to a paste. 
Add the butter, melted, and the egg — white and yolk 
beateu separately — the salt, and the flour, with the 
baking powder sifted into it. Cook on a hot greased 
griddle and serve at once with maple syrup, or butter 
and sugar. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 217 

TO RENEW STALE ROLLS. 

To freshen stale biscuits or rolls, put them into a 
steamer for ten minutes, then dry them off in a hot 
oven ; or dip each roll for an instant in cold water 
and heat them crisp in the oven. 

ROLLED BREAD AND BUTTER. 

Rolled bread and butter is much preferable to flat 
slices for afternoon teas, as ladies may hold it with- 
out spoiling dainty gloves. Butter the loaf — not a 
fresh one — having first decrusted it with a very sharp 
knife; cut a slice as thin as possible and roll each 
slice with flat of hand — practice soon perfects. Pile 
the rolls log-fashion, or in a pyramid, on a doiley- 
covered bread plate; garnish daintily with parsley or 
cress. A cress sandwich just means a spray of cress 
laid on the slice before rolling, one end of the cress 
projecting from the roll. 

ZWIEBACK. 

Cut baker's or other light bread into one-inch slices 
and brown in a moderate oven. 

CREAM TOAST. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, one and one-half cup- 
fuls of milk or cream. Four slices of toast. Heat 
the butter and when it bubbles add the flour and salt, 
then gradually the hot milk, stirring constantly and 
allowing the mixture to thicken each time. Pour 
this sauce over the slices of dry or moist toast. 



2i8 Us Two Cook Book 

Moist toast is prepared by quickly dipping dry toast 
into hot salted water or hot milk. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Cut bread which is not too fresh into pieces about 
half an inch thick; cut the slices into halves; drop 
a piece of butter into frying pan. Beat two eggs; 
add a pint of milk with salt to taste. Drop each 
piece of bread into this and then onto the frying 
pan. Fry to a nice brown. 

CAKE SUGGESTIONS. 

In making cake, it is very desirable that the 
materials be of the finest quality. Sweet, fresh 
butter, eggs and good flour are the first essentials. 
The process of putting together is also quite an 
important feature, and where other methods are not 
given in this work by contributors, it would be well 
for the young housekeeper to observe the following 
directions : Never allow the butter to oil, but soften 
it by putting it in a moderately warm place before 
you commence other preparations for your cake; 
then put it into an earthern dish (tin, if not new, 
will discolour your cake as you stir it), and add your 
sugar; beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add 
the yolks of the eggs, then the milk, and lastly the 
beaten whites of the eggs and flour. Spices and 
liquors may be added after the yolks of the eggs are 
put in, and fruit should be put in with the flour. 

The oven should be pretty hot for small cakes, and 
moderate for larger. To ascertain if a large cake is 
sufiSciently baked, pierce it with a broom-straw 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 219 

through the centre; if done, the straw will come out 
free from dough ; if not done, dough will adhere to 
the straw. Take it out of the tin about fifteen 
minutes after it is taken from the oven (not sooner), 
and do not turn it over on the top to cool. 

ICING. 

The following rules should be observed where 
boiled icing is not used : — 

Put the whites of your eggs in a shallow earthen 
dish, and allow, at least, a quarter of a pound or 
sixteen tablespoons of the finest white sugar for 
each egg. Take part of the sugar at first and 
sprinkle over the eggs; beat them for about half an 
hour, stirring in graduallj^ the rest of the sugar; 
then add the flavour. If you use the juice of a 
lemon, allow more sugar. Tartaric acid and lemon 
juice whitens icing. It may be shaded a pretty pink 
with strawberry juice or cranberry syrup, or 
coloured yellow by putting the juice and rind of a 
lemon in a thick muslin bag and squeezing it hard 
into the eggs and sugar. 

If cake is well dredged with flour after baking, 
and then careful Ij^ wiped before the icing is put on, 
it will not run and can be spread more smoothly. 
Put frosting on the cake in large spoonfuls, 
commencing over the centre; then spread it over 
the cake, using a large knife, dipping it occasionally 
in cold water. Dry the frosting on the cake in a 
cool, dry place. 

FROSTING. 

One cup granulated sugar, moisten thoroughly 



220 Us Two Cook Book 

with water sufficient to dissolve it when heated; let 
i1 boil until it threads from the spoon, stirring 
often; while the sugar is boiling, beat the white of 
one egg till it is firm ; then when thoroughly beaten, 
turn it into a deep dish, and when the sugar is 
boiled, turn it over the white, beating all together 
rapidly until of the right consistency to spread over 
the cake. Flavour with lemon if preferred. 

DEWEY ICING (FOR CAKES). 

One cup icing sugar, butter the size of a walnut, 
white of an egg, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon. Mix butter and sugar, and add 
the egg and beat well ; then the other ingredients, 
and spread on the cake when cold. 

FIG PASTE FILLING. 

Half pound of figs, one cup of sugar, half cup of 
cold water. Put figs into a bowl and pour boiling 
water over them, letting stand till soft, then cutting 
into small pieces with scissors; first cut off all the 
small hard pieces, and then chop figs until they 
become a thick paste; add sugar and water, and 
cook till thick and clear. 

CHOCOLATE DRESSING FOR CAKE. 

One bar and a half chocolate, five tablespoons 
sweet milk, four of powdered sugar; boil soft and 
thick; when cool add whites of two eggs and sugar 
to thicken. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 221 

CHOCOLATE DRESSING FOR CAKE, NO. 2. 

One-half cupful of grated chocolate, one large cup- 
ful of sugar, one-fourth cupful of milk, butter the 
size of an English walnut. Mix and put on the stove 
to boil. It should not be stirred while boiling. 
Boil ten minutes and then set off and let cool, stir- 
ring occasionally. When cool put between and on 
top of the cake. If it is not thick enough, put back 
on stove and cook a little more. 

CARAMEL FROSTING, 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of pulverised 
sugar, one-half cup of milk, butter the size of a wal- 
nut, four squares of Baker's chocolate, one teaspoon- 
ful of lemon essence, one teaspoonful of vanilla 
essence. Put the sugar and chocolate in a saucepan 
with milk and boil until melted; add the butter and 
boil until it shreds; add the essences and beat until 
it is thick enough to spread upon the cake. 

LEMON JELLY FILLING FOR CAKES. 

Half cup sugar, one egg, a tablespoonful butter, the 
juice of one lemon. Beat all together and boil until 
of the consistency of jelly. 

ALMOND CREAM FILLING. 

To one cup of sweet milk, add the well-beaten 
yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
one teaspoonful of cornstarch. Cook until smooth 
and thick; stir in half pound of blanched and 
chopped almonds, and flavour with lemon. Put 



2 22 Us Two Cook Book 

between the layers of the cake, and ice the top with 
plain boiled icing, sticking almonds over -the cake. 

BOILED ICING— PLAIN. 

Boil two cups of sugar and half cup of water 
together until the syrup hairs as it drips from the 
spoon ; pour this syrup over the beaten whites of 
two eggs, stirring until smooth. Different flavour- 
ings and colourings may be used, and nuts and fruits 
may be added. Have the cake out of the oven before 
making the icing, that it may have your whole 
attention. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 

To two cups of sugar add enough water to dis- 
solve; boil until the syrup hairs; while hot drop 
into the syrup half pound of marshmallows. Pour 
all (hot) into the beaten whites of three eggs. 
Spread between the layers, dropping cut marsh- 
mallows between and on the top of the layers. 

ALMOND PASTE. 

Grind one pound of almonds (measure carefully), 
then add same quantity of icing sugar, take yolk of 
one egg (do not beat it), mix all together w^ell, mak- 
ing it fine as possible, adding a few drops of rose 
water. Then take the mixture and work it on bak- 
ing board, adding more icing sugar to make it about 
like dough. Roll out size of cake, which should be 
brushed lightly with white of egg before laying 
paste on. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 223 

CHRISTMxVS CAKE. 

One pound Valencia raisins, half pound Sultana 
raisins, one and a half pounds currants, half pound 
sugar, three-quarters of a pound of flour, half pound 
of butter, quarter pound of blanched almonds, quar- 
ter pound of mixed peel, one teaspoonful mixed 
spice, one teaspoonful baking powder, pinch of salt, 
half a nutmeg, five eggs, grated rind and juice of 
one lemon, half wine-glass of brandy. Rub sugar 
and butter to a cream, add eggs, which have been 
beaten separately. Then add flour, baking powder, 
salt and spice. Mix well. Add fruit, peel, almonds, 
rind and juice of lemon, then pour on the brandy. 
Then thoroughly mix. Bake about three hours in 
moderate oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Half cup butter, one cup of sugar, half cup of 
molasses, three and a quarter cups flour, half cup 
sour cream or milk, two eggs, half teaspoon soda, 
half pound raisins, half pound currants, one-fourth 
pound citron, one nutmeg, cloves and mace one tea- 
spoon each. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

One and a half cups of sugar, three-quarters cup 
of butter, three-quarters cup of molasses, half cup 
of milk, two eggs, half teaspoonful soda, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves, one tea- 
spoonful nutmeg, one pound currants, one-quarter 
pound citron, half glass of wine, flour to make a 
stiff batter. 



224 Us Two Cook Book 

PLUM CAKE. 

Half pound flour, half pound butter, half pound 
sugar, half pound raisins, one pound currants, three 
eggs, candied peel and spice, half cup of sour milk, 
half teaspoonful of soda, teaspoonful molasses. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, two cups flour, 
four eggs, half cup chopped almonds, a teaspoon 
ratafia, a teaspoon vanilla, a teaspoon baking pow- 
der, a cup of raisins. Add the flour and baking 
powder mixed last of all. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE. 

Dissolve two ounces chocolate in five tablespoon- 
fuls boiling water, beat one-half cup butter to a 
cream, add gradually one and one-half cups sugar, 
beating all while; add yolks of four eggs, beat again, 
then add one-half cup milk, then the melted choco- 
late, one and three-quarters cups flour; beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add to the 
mixture one teaspoon vanilla, two teaspoons baking 
powder sifted with flour. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Two tablespoonfuls butter, one cupful dark sugar, 
one large cupful flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful 
each of cloves, allspice and cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfuls molasses, one-half cupful sour milk and 
one teaspoonful soda sifted. Bake in two layers, ice 
and fill with icing. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 225 

DATE CAKE. 

One cup rolled oats, one and a quarter cups flour, 
half cup brown sugar, half cup butter, one-quarter 
cup sour milk, half teaspoon soda (in the milk). 

Filling. — Half pound dates, half cup brown sugar, 
half cup hot water. Roll paste out quite thin, 
spread date filling between two layers and cook 
together, and let cool. 

BEAUTIFUL LAYER CAKE. 

Small cup of sugar. Butter the size of an egg. 
Beat together into a cream ; add three tablespoons 
milk; three eggs (the yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately) ; two teaspoons baking powder; full cup 
flour; flavouring to taste; medium oven. 

RAISIN LAYER CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar, one-third cup butter, two 
eggs, one cup sifted flour, one cup chopped raisins, 
one-half cup sour milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one- 
third teaspoon cinnamon, one-third teaspoon nut- 
meg, one-third teaspoon allspice. Bake in layers in 
a moderate oven. 

CORN CAKE. 

Large one-half cup meal and full cup flour, two 
tablespoons sugar. Little salt, one egg, one cup 
sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon soda. Sift soda and cream tartar into flour. 
Bake twenty minutes. 



/ 



226 Us Two Cook Book 

ECCLES CAKES. 

Make a very short paste and roll lightly (always 
in one direction, never back and forth), and cut into 
squares about five inches. Place on each square 
currants which have been heated in a syrup of 
brown sugar and fold over the sides so as to make a 
square cake with round opening; put a little syrup 
in each cake before baking in a very hot oven. 

SPICE CAKE, NO. 2. 

One-half cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup molasses, one-half cup sweet milk, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoon- 
ful cloves, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, two 
cups flour. This Is nice for either a loaf or a layer 
cake. 

CORNSTARCH CAKE. 

One-quarter cup butter, two eggs, one cup sugar, 
one-half cup cornstarch, one cup flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Beat yolks of eggs, but- 
ter and sugar to a cream, then add whites, starch, 
flour, baking powder and milk last. This amount 
makes one dozen small cakes. 

WHITE ROCK CAKE. 

Whites of three eggs, one-half cup melted butter, 
one cup of granulated sugar, one-half cup of flour, 
one-half cup of sweet milk, one cup cornstarch. 
Beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; sugar and butter to a 
cream; mix flour and cornstarch with two and one- 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 227 

lialf teaspoonfuls baking powder; then mix all 
together. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, two-thirds of a cupful of 
milk (a little warm), half a cupful of butter, two 
cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
The whites of five eggs; cochineal for half; ice with 
nuts. Directions: cream butter, sugar and milk 
together, then part of flour, whites of eggs with the 
rest of flour. Divide and colour one portion. Fill 
bake-pan with alternate layers of white and pink. 
Must not be moved in the oven until cooked. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Take half cup of sugar, quarter cup of milk, three- 
quarters cup of flour, quarter cup of butter, whites 
of two eggs, half teaspoonful of cream tartar, quar- 
ter teaspoonful of soda. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, three-quarters cup of sugar 
(castor), half cup of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar and flavour. Sift sugar, flour, and cream tar- 
tar well together and beat in the whites of eggs — 
already well beaten. Bake in slow oven sixty 
minutes, in a pan not greased. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup milk or water, two cups of flour, one 



228 Us Two Cook Book 

teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, and a little nutmeg. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

Two whites eggs, beaten stiff, one cup sugar, one- 
quarter cup butter^ half cup milk, one and a half 
cups flour, half cup chopped walnuts, half teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, vanilla. Beat but- 
ter in sugar, add milk, flour, nuts, eggs last; then 
bake slowly. Frost with chocolate frosting, with 
half walnuts on top. 

JOE'S CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, quarter cup butter, one egg, 
quarter cup of raisins chopped fine, quarter cup of 
currants, a little lemon peel, half teaspoonful of 
essence of lemon, quarter cup of milk, a teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, and one and a half cups of 
flour. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Quarter cup butter, one cup sugar, quarter cup 
milk, one and a half of flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, and yolks of two eggs. 

For the silver cake use the same recipe, only in 
place of the yolks of eggs use the whites of two 
eggs. 

POUND CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, four eggs 
beaten separately, one and one-half cups sifted 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 229 

flour; mix butter and sugar to a cream, then put in 
volk ? beaten light, the flour and whites last. • 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Ha f cup molasses, half cup brown sugar, half cup 
cold ciffee, two cups sifted flour, quarter cup butter, 
two teaspoons baking powder and a half teaspoon 
allspice. 

WASHINGTON CREAM CAKE. 

One cup sugar, quarter cup sweet milk, two eggs, 
one and a half cups flour, two even teaspoons baking 
powder, butter the size of an egg. 

VANITY CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup flour rolled thin as a wafer; 
cut in patterns; boiled in lard. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Part 1st. Two-thirds of a cup of chocolate 
shaved, two-thirds of a cup of brown sugar, half a 
cup of sweet milk, one teaspoouful of vanilla. Put 
the chocolate and sugar on the stove. Add the milk 
slowly, stirring constantly ; cook until smooth. Add 
the vanilla when taken from the stove. Put in a 
pan of cold water to cool. 

Part 2nd. One-half cup of butter, and one cup 
of brown sugar creamed; add two eggs and beat 
until light. Add the cooled chocolate and beat well, 
then add one-half cup of milk, one teaspoouful of 
soda sifted with two cups of flour. Beat hard, line 



230 Us Two Cook Book 

the tin with oiled paper or butter the tin. Bake in 
two layers. 

Chocolate Cream Filling. Six tablespoonfuls of 
grated or shaved chocolate, enough milk or cream 
to moisten, one cupful of sugar, one egg beaten. 
Stir the ingredients over the fire until smooth. Take 
from the stove and add vanilla. When cool put 
between and on top of the cake. 

PLAIN LAYER CAKE. 

Cream one butter ball and one cupful of sugar, 
two eggs, beaten separately; mix yolks and sugar 
and butter together. Add one cup of milk, one cup 
and a half of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, sifted. Add the beaten whites last. 

Filling. — One egg well beaten, one-half cup of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix together; 
one and one-fourth cups of milk, let milk come to a 
boil. Add one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon salt, two teaspoonfuls sugar, three- 
quarters cup milk, one-quarter cup butter, straw- 
berries. Mix the flour, baking powder, salt and 
sugar and sift twice. Work in the butter with tips 
of the fingers and add the milk gradually. Toss on 
a floured board, divide into two parts, pat and roll 
out. Bake in two layers, one on top of the other, 
with butter between ; when cool, open with a knife. 
Sweeten strawberries to taste. Crush slightly and 
put between and on top of the short cake. Cover 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 231 

the top with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured 
with vanilla. 

To one-half pint thick cream add one-quarter cup 
milk and beat until stiff with the egg beater. Add 
one-quarter cup powdered sugar and one-quarter 
teaspoonful vanilla. Serve at once. 

The cream may be omitted. Other fruits may be 
substituted. 

OEANGE SBORTCAKE. 



Make a nice shortcake; spread in layers of sliced 
'anges with sugar and 
with sweetened cream. 



oranges with sugar and a little cream. To be eaten 



APPLE SHORTCAKE. 

Season apple sauce with butter, sugar, etc. ; make 
a nice shortcake, open and butter it and put the 
apple sauce in layers. Serve with sweetened cream. 

BERRY TEA CAKE. 

One tablespoonful butter, half cupful sugar, one 
egg, one-third cupful milk, one and a quarter cup- 
fuls flimr, one teaspoonful baking powder, pinch 
salt, half cupful blueberries. This is particularly 
good for tea, because it is simply and easily made. 
After the butter, sugar and egg have been beaten 
together add the milk. Now mix the flour, baking 
powder and salt, and sift into a bowl containing the 
other ingredients. Stir well and afterwards lightly 
stir in the blueberries. Pour the mixture into a 
shallow, buttered pan and bake for half an hour. It 
should be served hot with butter. 



232 Us Two Cook Book 

RED RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Make a crust, allowing one heaping tablespoonful 
of butter and one teaspoonful of baking powder to 
every cup of flour. Roll thin and bake on a large 
pie plate or tin; spread butter between the two 
layers so they can be separated without cutting; 
spread again with butter and fill with fresh rasp- 
berries, which have stood with sugar over them for 
one-half hour or longer. Serve at once. 

GINGER BREAD. 

One eggy half cup sour cream, half cup brown 
sugar, half cup black molasses, one tablespoon but- 
ter, one teaspoon ginger^ half teaspoon cinnamon, 
half teaspoon of soda dissolved in the sour cream, 
one and a quarter cups of flour. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Beat two eggs separately, add half cup sugar and 
beat all together, add half cup of flour which has 
been sifted twice with one teaspoon of baking pow- 
der and pinch of salt. Flavour with vanilla. Put 
in well-buttered pan, 10 x 7 inches. When cooked, 
which will be in a few minutes, turn out on sugared 
paper, spread with jam and roll immediately. 

LUCY'S TEA CAKE. 

One egg, half cup of sugar, quarter cup of butter, 
half teacup of milk, one cup of flour, and a few 
currants. 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 233 

RICE FLOUR CAKE. 

Five eggs, half poiiad of sugar, half pound of rice 
flour; flavour with lemon; beat the eggs and sugar 
half an hour, then add the flour. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. 

One pound flour, one-half pound butter, one- 
quarter pound sugar, fine granulated. Put flour on 
board, add butter and sugar, and knead with the 
hand until a nice dough is formed. Roll into a 
round cake any thickness desired and bake in a 
moderate oven about half an hour, or until it is 
nicely browned. Cut into shapes while hot. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two eggs, half cup of fine white sugar, half cup of 
flour, lemon flavouring. Beat yolks and whites sepa- 
rately, add half the sugar to yolks and half to whites 
and beat well, then beat both together, stir in flour, 
bake in slow oven. 

SPANISH BUN. 

Two eggs, small cup sugar, butter size of a large 
egg, one-half cup milk, one-quarter teaspoonful 
cloves, three small teaspoonfuls cinnamon, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, one large cup of flour. 

SOPHIA'S LADYFINGERS. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, beaten separately, 
one-half cup of hickory nuts chopped fine, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, the grated rind of one 



234 Us Two Cook Book 

lemon. Mix sugar and yolks, add the nnts and 
whites of eggs and flour enough to roll out, sprinkle 
lightly with sugar, cut into strips three inches long 
and one inch wide, and bake in moderate oven. 
Delicious. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One-half cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, 
one tablespoonful of melted lard, one pinch of salt, 
three tablespoon fuls of baking powder in part of 
flour; add flour enough to roll out the dough, cut, 
and fry in very hot lard. When brown on both 
sides, drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. 

NICE LITTLE CAKES— CHEAP. 

Quarter cup butter, quarter cup sugar, quarter 
cup milk, one and half cups flour, one egg, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder. Mode — Beat the eggs, 
add the sugar, the batter well beaten, and half a 
nutmeg if the flavour be approved of, if not any other 
spice, or a few drops of essence of any kind ; mix 
the baking powder well with the flour, and add by 
degrees to the mixture; bake in small patty pans 
half an hour in a quick oven. They will be found 
very good if properly made. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Mix three ounces of flour with four ounces of 
grated cheese, add one-half a tablespoon of salt, 
dash of cayenne, and one-quarter pound of butter. 
Work this to a smooth paste sufiSciently stiff to roll; 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 235 

add a very little water, if necessary. Roll out in 
very thin strips and cut into straws, place on a 
greased tin and bake ten minutes in a moderate 
oven. They must be straw colour and very crisp. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Half cup butter, half cup brown sugar, half cup 
molasses, quarter cup boiling water, teaspoon gin- 
ger, teaspoon cinnamon, half teaspoon of soda dis- 
solved in the boiling water. Flour for stiff dough. 
Roll thin and cook in quick oven. 

WHOLE WHEAT GINGER SNAPS. 

Half cup Orleans molasses, quarter cup shorten- 
ing, quarter cup brown sugar. Place on stove and 
let come to a boil, then take off immediately and 
add a quarter teaspoon soda and half teaspoon gin- 
ger; then add whole wheat flour until thick enough 
to roll. 

MACAROONS. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, two cupfuls rolled oats, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, ratafia flavouring. 
Drop in a pan with spoon and bake. 

PARIS STICKS. 

One cupful of chopped almonds, one-third cup of 
flour, half teaspoon baking powder, half cupful of 
pulverised sugar, the white of an egg beaten to a 
stiff froth, the grated rind of one lemon. Mix the 
ingredients and roll out on pulverised sugar; cut 



/ 



236 Us Two Cook Book 

into strips an inch wide and put into paraflSned 
pans. Bake in a slow oven. Excellent. 

ALMOND STRIPS. 

Mix one cup of almonds, chopped fine, with the 
white of one egg slightly beaten, two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. Roll out puff paste very thin, 
three inches wide and ten inches long, cover with 
the almond nut mixture, cut into long strips, bake 
until a light brown. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Beat the white of one egg, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, one and one- 
half cupfuls of cocoanut; mix lightly and drop on 
oiled paper, and bake in a very moderate oven. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One cup oatmeal, one cup flour, one-third cup boil- 
ing water, one-third cup melted lard, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, one-third cup sugar. Roll very thin. 
These are a general favourite. 

JUMBLES. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, two eggs, one and 
a half teaspoon baking powder, one and a half cups 
flour, nutmeg. Roll thin and use cutter with hole 
in centre. 

SHREWSBURY WAFERS. 
Beat an egg until light, and add gradually while 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 237 

beating, half cup sugar. Then add two-thirds table- 
spoon of melted butter, two-thirds cup rolled oats, 
one-third cup cocoanut, one-third teaspoon of salt, a 
little vanilla. Drop by teaspoonfuls one inch apart. 

PLAIN COOKIES. 

One egg, one cup butter, one cup sugar, half tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in two tablespoons of sour 
milk, a little cinnamon and flour enough to make a 
dough. Roll thin and bake quickly. 

DROP COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, half cup of 
butter, three-quarters cup of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, two eggs. 

NUT STICKS. 

Rub half tablespoonful of butter into one pint of 
flour; add one even teaspoonful of baking powder, 
half teaspoonful of salt ; mix thoroughly ; add just 
enough milk to roll into dough; roll quarter inch 
thick; brush with milk; and spread with chopped 
hickory nuts; press into dough with rolling pin; cut 
into rings and sticks; lay in greased pans and bake 
a delicate yellow. Serve with the salad course. 

HICKORY NUT COOKIES. 

Beat three eggs until the whites and yolks are 
well mixed; add one cup of chopped hickory nut 
meats dredged with flour; half cup of sugar, three- 



238 Us Two Cook Book 

quarters cup of melted butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, and about three cups of sifted flour; roll thin; 
cut and bake in a moderate oven. 



KISSES. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half cup milk, one teaspoon cream of tartar, 
one-half of soda, flour enough to make a stiff 
dough ; drop on tins and sprinkle over with pow- 
dered sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 

KISSES, NO. 2. 

Beat together until stiff, the whites of two eggs 
and one cup of sugar. Whip until the mixture 
retains its shape; drop on buttered paper placed in 
the bottom of a pan, and bake in a slow oven. 

HERMITS. 

Cream three-quarters cup of sugar and half cup 
of butter; add two eggs well beaten, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sour milk to which has been added half tea- 
spoonful of soda; one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half 
teaspoonful of cloves, half cup of chopped raisins, 
and sifted flour enough to make a soft dough. Roll 
thin, as for wafers, and bake. 

HYPOCRITES. 

Beat three eggs very light with a generous pinch 
of salt; add one and a half tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one large tablespoonful of melted butter, and sifted 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 239 

flonr enough to roll out thin; cut in narrow strips 
and fry the same as doughnuts; sprinkle while hot 
with powdered sugar. Hypocrites are very nice 
served with coffee as a light refreshment, or at 
luncheon. 



240 Us Two Cook Book 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 241 



242 Us Two Cook Book 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 243 



244 Us Two Cook Book 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 245 



246 Us Two Cook Book 



Breads, Cakes, etc. 247 



248 Us Two Cook Book 




149 



Desserts 251 

DESSERTS. 

PIES AND PASTRY. 

PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

For one pie, use one cup of pastry flour, a pinch of 
salt and one-third cup of shortening. x\dd enough 
cold water to make the paste. Toss on a floured 
board; press together; roll out, lightly, with the 
rolling-pin, being careful not to bear down and to 
always handle the paste as lightly as possible. 
Spread with lard; make a roll of the paste; cut off 
one-third of the roll for the upper crust; roll out 
the larger piece for the bottom crust. Spread the 
top crust with lard. Bake in a hot oven. When 
but one crust is used, a strip of the paste should be 
fluted around the edge, making the crust deeper. 

The quicker puff paste is made the lighter it 
will be. 

A brisk oven is needed for all pastry. A very 
simple test will show the right heat. Insert a piece 
of white note paper into the oven and after five 
minutes take it out. A pale yellow hue on the 
paper will indicate that it is too slow for ordinary 
puff paste; a nice brown colour, decided in tone, 
shows that the heat is just right. A very dark 
brown shows too much heat. 

APPLE PIE. 

Peel and cut tart apples into eighths; remove the 
cores. Vary the amount of sugar according to the 
acidit}' of the apples, using two tablespoonfuls or 



252 Us Two Cook Book 

more for an apple. If the apples are not juicy, add 
from one-half tablespoonful to one tablespoonful 
water, according to the size of the apple. 

The apples may be flavoured with lemon juice, cin- 
namon or nutmeg, and should be covered with bits 
of butter. Bake until the apples are soft and the 
crust is brown. Apple sauce may be used on a 
baked crust. 



FINE PUFF PASTRY. 

One pound of flour, a little more for rolling pin 
and board, and half a pound of butter and half a 
pound of lard. Cut the butter and lard through the 
flour (which should be sifted) into small thin shells 
and mix with sufficient ice water to roll easily. 
Avoid kneading it and use the hands as little as 
possible in mixing. 

APPLE LEMON PIE. 

Two tart apples chopped fine, two eggs beaten, 
juice of two lemons, grated rind of one, one cup of 
sugar, a pinch of salt. Bake between two crusts. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line your pie tin with good crust, fill half full 
with ripe stoned cherries; sprinkle over them one 
cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful of flour sifted. 
Now fill the crust to the top with more cherries. 
Cover with the upper crust and bake. This is a 
most delicious pie. 



Desserts 253 

CREAM PIE. 

Yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one pint of 
rich milk. Flavour to the taste; put the yolks and 
whites together, or spread the whites over the top 
of the pie. 

SMALL LEMON PIE. 

Moisten one heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch 
with a little water, add a cupful of boiling water. 
Stir over the fire until it boils three minutes; add a 
teaspoonful of butter and one cupful of sugar. Take 
off the fire, and when slightly cooled add one beaten 
egg and the juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
Bake with a crust. 

LEMON FILLING FOR PIE. 

One lemon, juice and rind grated; yolks of two 
eggs, one cup of water, one cup of sugar, one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of cornstarch. Put in a double 
boiler and boil thick. Save the whites for top. 

PRUNE PIE. 

Wash half pound of prunes and soak in cold 
water for an hour or more. Cook in the same water 
until soft ; remove the pits ; cut the prunes in pieces 
and put in an under crust; add three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of lemon juice and a 
sprinkling of flour; small bits of butter; then put 
on top crust and bake. 



254 Us Two Cook Book 

RASPBERRY PIE. 

Line a shallow pudding dish, or deep plate, with 
pie crust and fill with berries, a cup of granulated 
sugar mixed with one tablespoonful of flour. Cover 
with a tolerably thick sheet of crust; make several 
incisions for the escaping steam ; bake until crusts 
are a delicate brown. Serve cool. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Take fine, sound, ripe cranberries and with a 
sharp knife split each one until you have a heaping 
coffee cupful ; put them in a vegetable dish or basin ; 
put over them one cupful of white sugar, half a cup 
of water, a tablespoonful of sifted flour; stir it all 
together and put into your crust. Cover with an 
upper crust and bake slowly in a moderate oven. 

PIE PLANT PIE. 

Wash, skin and cut in half-inch pieces, sufficient 
pie plant for one pie. Put into an under crust; 
sprinkle with flour; add a scant cup of sugar; cover 
with small bits of butter; put on upper crust; bake 
until brown. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

To three eggs beaten separately add two table- 
spoons of sugar mixed with one teaspoon of flour 
and pinch of salt. One cup shredded cocoanut, 
vanilla flavouring, beat well, add one pint warm milk. 
Put in under crust and bake until solid. 



Desserts 255 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Made same as cocoanut pie, omitting the shredded 
cocoanut. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Three-quarters cupful of boiled or steamed pump- 
kin (well mashed), one and a half cupfuls of milk, 
half cupful of sus^ar, one egg, and a teaspoonful of 
ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves. 

MINCE PIE. 

Put a sufficient amount of good mince meat, either 
home-made or prepared, to fill an under crust. Cover 
with an upper crust and bake until brown. Reheat 
slightly before serving. 

MINCE MEAT. 

One-half cupful of mixed candied citron, lemon 
and orange peels, one-half cupful of suet, one and 
one-half cupfuls of mixed raisins and currants, one 
and one-half cupfuls of chopped apples, one cupful 
of cooked beef chopped fine, one heaping tablespoon- 
ful and half of molasses, three tablespoonfuls of 
brown sugar, one teaspoonful and a half of mixed 
spices. (Nutmeg, allspice, cloves, cinnamon and 
black pepper.) Add three pinches of salt, half a 
cupful of brandy and half a cupful of cider, mixed. 
Let stand several days before using. 

MINCE MEAT (WITHOUT LIQUOR). 
Mix together one cup chopped apple, one half cup 



256 Us Two Cook Book 

raisins seeded and chopped, one half cup currants, 
one-fourth cup butter, one tablespoon of molasses, 
one tablespoon of boiled cider, one cup of sugar, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, one half teaspoonful of 
cloves, one half nutmeg grated, one saltspoon of 
mace, one teaspoon of salt. Add enough stock in 
which meat was cooked to moisten; heat gradually 
to boiling point and simmer one hour; then add one 
cup of chopped meat and two tablespoons of jelly. 
Cook fifteen minutes. 

PEACH PIE. 

Slice peaches in an under crust; sprinkle with 
one-half cup of sugar; add three tablespoonfuls of 
water; put on upper crust and bake. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Half a cup of butter melted in one cup of hot 
water, put on the stove to boil; while boiling add 
one cup of flour. Take otf and let cool ; when 
cold stir in three eggs one after the other without 
beating; drop on buttered tins and bake thirty min- 
utes. 

Filling for above — One cup of milk, one egg, half 
a cup of sugar. Thicken with two small tablespoon- 
fuls of cornstarch, and flavour with vanilla; add a 
small lump of butter. 

CHEESE TARTLETS. 

Make a paste of one ounce butter, two ounces 
flour, one yolk of an egg, a little water and salt; 
line some patty pans, beat up two ounces grated 



Desserts 257 

cheese in a basin with yolks of two eggs, add pepper, 
salt, etc.; work in a little cream or milk; fill each 
pattj with mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound each of suet, bread-crumbs, 
raisins, currants, and sugar^ one glass brandy, four 
eggs, nutmeg, a little mace or cinnamon, one pinch 
of salt and milk enough to moisten ; boil six hours. 
Fewer currants and raisins may be used and the 
difference made up with candied peels, which is an 
improvement. 

PLUM PUDDING. No. 2. 

One-half cup suet, one-half cup sweet milk, one- 
half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
currants, one and a half cup raisins, two cups flour, 
one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
cloves, one-half teaspoon spice, one-half teaspoon 
soda; boil three hours. 

CHEAP PLUM PUDDING. 

Two cups of flour, one teaspoon of baking pow- 
der, one-half teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half cup of 
suet, one-half cup raisins, one egg, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, one-half cup of milk. Steam three hours. 

RICE AND APPLE PUDDING. 
Half cup of rice boiled very soft; stir well to 



2S8 Us Two Cook Book 

keep from burning; four large apples, stewed; press 
the pulp through a sieve, mix it thoroughly with 
the rice; add half a teaspoonful of butter and yolks 
of two eggs well beaten; sweeten to taste. Bake. 
Beat the whites of the e^gs and put on the top. It 
is nicer almost cold. 

CAKE PUDDING. 

One egg, one tablespoon of butter, three-quarters 
of a cup of sugar, half a cup of milk, one cup of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Butter 
the mould, then put in a little preserve and then 
your batter. Steam one hour. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Stew one-half pound of prunes, drain off the juice, 
stone, and chop fine. Beat the whites of two eggs 
stiff and add gradually one-half cupful of sugar, 
beating all the time, and then add the chopped 
prunes gradually. Beat thoroughlj^ Bake twenty 
minutes and serve cold with a custard made of the 
yolks of the eggs, or whipped cream. 

CHEESE PUDDING FOR LUNCHEON. 

This dish is rather nice for a midday luncheon, or 
it may be served as a supper dish. Toast four slices 
of bread, place in a small baking-dish, cover with 
thick layer of grated cheese, dust lightly with salt 
and pepper, cover with another slice of bread, then a 
layer of cheese, and so on until you have used the 
four slices of toast, having the top bread; baste 



Desserts 259 

over one-half a pint of hot milk, bake in a quick 
oven twenty minutes. 

PLUM PUDDING (CARROT PUDDING). 

Equal quantities of suet, flour, raisins, currants, 
grated potato, grated carrots, say one cup of each; 
add a small half cup black molasses, one half tea- 
spoonful ground allspice, same of cloves, and a dash 
of black pepper, a small teaspoonful of salt. Add, 
if you wish, citron, lemon, and orange peel, and 
chopped almonds. Steam three and one-half or four 
hours. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE PUDDING. 

Yolks two eggs, whites two eggs, one-half cup 
sugar, one and one-half tablespoons milk, one and 
one-half tablespoons grated chocolate (unsweet- 
ened), one teaspoon baking powder, one-half cup 
flour. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, 
add the grated chocolate and milk by turns ; put the 
baking powder into the flour and add them to the 
mixture, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs. 
Steam an hour and a quarter. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

COLD FRUIT PUDDING. 

Hot stewed fruit poured over layers of bread and 
butter in a mould ; when cold serve with cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One tablespoonful butter, one-half cup white 



26o Us Two Cook Book 

sugar, one egg, one-half cup milk, one cup flour, one 
teaspoonful baking powder; bake and serve with 
sauce. 

BETSY PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, three ounces bread-crumbs, one 
egg, one tablespoonful of white sugar, jam. 

Spread a good layer of jam in the bottom of a pie- 
dish. Pour the milk nearly boiling on to the bread- 
crumbs; when cool stir in the egg, which should be 
beaten ; pour this gently on the preserve ; grate a 
little nutmeg over the top, and bake for half an 
hour. 

MARMALADE PUDDING. 

Two tablespoonfuls of marmalade, about one and 
one half cups of bread-crumbs, one-fourth cup of 
milk and water mixed, one-half cup of suet, one-half 
cup flour, one spoonful baking powder, pinch of salt. 
Steam and serve with sauce. 

RAISIN PUFF. 

One egg, one tablespoonful butter, one cup of 
flour, in which sift a teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der; tablespoon of white sugar, one-half cup of 
raisins chopped very fine, one-half teacup of sweet 
milk. Steam one hour in an ordinary brown bread 
steamer. Serve with whipped cream or cold sauce. 

STEAMED ROLY POLY. 
Sift together one and a half cups of flour, one tea- 



Desserts 261 

spoonful baking powder, and pinch of salt, rub in 
one tablespoonful of butter; mix into a soft dough 
with water, roll on a board and spread thickly with 
jam. Roll up, place in a dish and steam for two 
hours. Serve with cream or sauce. 

APPLE SOUFFLE PUDDING. 

Three fine juicy apples, one-half cup fine bread 
crumbs, two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful butter, nutmeg, and a little grated lemon 
peel. 

Pare, core, and slice the apples, and stew in a 
covered double saucepan, without a drop of water, 
until they are tender. Mash to a smooth pulp, and 
while hot, stir in the butter and sugar. I^t it get 
quite cold, and whip in, first the yolks of the eggs, 
then the whites — beaten very stiff — alternately with 
the bread crumbs. Flavour, beat quickly three min- 
utes, until all the ingredients are reduced to a 
creamy batter, and bake in a buttered dish, in a mod- 
erate oven. It will take about an hour to cook it 
properly. Keep it covered until ten minutes before 
you take it out. This will retain the juices and pre- 
vent the formation of a crust on the top. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Cut a short pie crust into five or six inch squares. 
In the centre of each place a pared and neatly cored 
apple, filling the space with sugar and cinnamon if 
liked. After wetting the edges of the pastry with 
white of egg, fold it over the apple, pinch and flute 
them to look well, and encase the apple completely. 



262 Us Two Cook Book 

Bake from thirty to forty minutes, toward the last 
brushing the top with the white of egg and dusting 
with a little sugar. Serve with hard sauce. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One cup of milk, two eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten separately, five tablespoons of sifted flour, a 
little salt; beat in the whites of the eggs the last 
thing before baking; bake half an hour. 

SPOONFUL PUDDING. 

One egg, one tablespoonful butter, two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls flour, one tablespoon- 
ful cornstarch, one tablespoonful milk, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder, pinch of salt, raspberries. 
This is both good and delicate, and if properly 
cooked will be very light. Chopped pineapple or 
pitted cherries may be used in place of raspberries 
if you happen to lack a supply of that fruit. In 
measuring the butter have your measurement level ; 
but the spoonfuls of sugar, flour and cornstarch 
must all be heaped up. 

Cream the butter; then cream the butter and 
sugar together. Mix the salt, cornstarch and flour, 
reserving a little of the flour to mix with the baking 
powder a little later. Sift these dry ingredients and 
mix with the butter and sugar; then add the milk 
and the yolk of the egg^ beating the batter thor- 
oughly. Now put in the baking powder, mixed with 
the small quantity of flour that was left, and finally 
fold in the white of the egg. Butter three earthen- 
ware coffee-cups, and into each put two generous 



Desserts 263 

tablespoonfuls of red raspberries, and over the fruit 
two tablespoonfuls of batter. This recipe provides 
a quantity suflScient for three such cups. If smaller 
cups are used only a tablespoonful each of the fruit 
and batter should be placed in each cup. Cook in 
a steamer for forty-five minutes, and serve with any 
liquid sauce suitable for a steamed pudding, or with 
sugar and cream. 

STEAMED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Using a soft biscuit dough, proceed as before. 
Steam the dumpling over rapidly boiling water for 
one hour. Serve with hard sauce. 



BREAD PUDDING. 

Cut two slices of bread into inch squares, pour 
over one cup of cold milk and let stand for one-half 
hour. Beat two eggs separately. Add two table- 
i^poons of sufjar, small pinch of salt and cup of milk, 
pour over soaked bread. Grate a nutmeg on top and 
bake. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

A cup of stewed, well-mashed apples, the whites 
of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two large table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; then add the apples and sugar 
alternately, a spoonful of each, and beat all together 
vntil it stands up perfectly stiff; it will swell im- 
mensely. Serve this in saucers on a custard made 
of the yolks of the eggs, one cup of milk, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, and flavour with vanilla. 



264 Us Two Cook Book 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

To one pint of milk add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; let come to a boil and add two tablespoon- 
fuls of cornstarch, moistened with cold water; let 
thicken ; divide, and to half add tablespoonful of 
grated chocolate. Put in jelly glasses in layers. 
Chill and serve with whipped cream. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

To one pint of sweet milk, add the yolks of two 
eggs, well beaten, two large tablespoonfuls of 
shredded cocoanut and one-half cup of rolled cracker 
crumbs; beat thoroughly; flavour with vanilla; bake 
one-half hour. Cover with a frosting made from the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; add one 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar; return to the 
oven and bake a delicate brown. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Pour one-half pint of boiling water over one 
tablespoon of gelatine, which has been soaked for 
twenty minutes in cold water; when the gelatine is 
dissolved, add one cup of white sugar and the juice 
of a lemon. When cold, slash the gelatine into bits; 
beat into it the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth and serve with sauce made as follows : make a 
boiled custard of one-half pint of milk, the yolks of 
two eggs and one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
Put one pint of water to boil ; when boiling mix in 



Desserts 265 

one tablespoonful cornstarch, previously dissolved in 
a little water; the juice and grated rind of a lemon, 
one-half cupful of white sugar. When quite thick 
beat in the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff; set 
aside to cool ; serve with a thin custard made with 
the yolks of eggs, flavoured with vanilla. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Soak one and one-half tablespoonfuls of tapioca 
in water over night. In morning drain. Add one 
pint of milk, yolks of two eggs beaten well with one 
tablespoon of sugar, small pinch of salt and flavour- 
ing. Put in double boiler. When at boiling point 
add the whites of the eggs which have been well 
beaten and sweetened and let it remain undisturbed 
for a few minutes, then stir and turn into dish. 
Serve cold. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Soak a half cup of tapioca over night in a cup of 
cold water. Put into a double boiler a pint of boil- 
ing water and dissolve in this a tablespoonful of 
granulated sugar. Now turn in the soaked tapioca 
and cook until clear. Remove from the fire and add 
two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Have ready two 
jelly glasses wet with cold water and turn the liquid 
jelly into these. Set in a cold place to form. Serve 
very cold with sweetened cream. 

SWISS APPLE PUDDING. 

Apples, bread crumbs, moist sugar, butter. 
Prepare the apples as for a pie, and put a layer 



266 Us Two Cook Book 

of them in a buttered dish ; cover with bread-crumbs, 
and a little sugar, and a few small pieces of butter. 
Repeat this until the dish is full, and bake till well 
browned. When finished, turn it out of the dish 
and sprinkle with white sugar. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak three and one-half tablespoonfuls of tapioca 
in one pint of milk over night; add three eggs well 
beaten, one grated lemon rind, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; bake in a moderately quick oven. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One tablespoon of the cornstarch to one pint of 
milk; mix the cornstarch with a small quantity of 
the milk and flavour it; beat up two eggs. Heat the 
remainder of the milk to near boiling, then add the 
mixed cornstarch, the eggs, two tablespoons of 
sugar, a little butter and salt. Boil it two minutes, 
stirring briskly. 

SAGO CUSTARD. 

Two tablespoons sago boiled in a little water till 
clear; add one pint of milk, let it come to a boil, then 
add two well beaten eggs and sugar to taste. Put 
the vessel containing the custard in a kettle of 
boiling water; stir it briskly till it thickens a little; 
flavour with vanilla after it is partly cool. 

SNOW SOUFFLE. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth; dis- 



Desserts 267 

solve one-half box of gelatine in a little more than 
a pint of hot water; two cups of sugar, and the 
juice of two lemons; when this is dissolved and 
cooled, stir into it the eggs you have beaten, beat 
the whole together until it is white and stiff; mould 
and pour around it soft custard. 



TIPSY PUDDING. 

Flavour boiled custard with sherry wine and pour 
over slices of stale sponge cake. Cover with cream 
sauce. 

BOILED RICE. 

Have ready on the fire, pot with quart of boiling 
water. Wash half cup of rice, and sprinkle it in. 
Add salt. Boil rapidly, so that the water tosses the 
grains about loosely for fifteen minutes without 
touching. Then, throw it into colander to drain; 
then remove to double boiler and add a cup of milk. 
Cook for one hour without stirring. 

BOILED RICE. No. 2. 

Boil half a cupful of rice in just enough water to 
cover it, with half a teaspoonful of salt; when the 
water has boiled nearly out and the rice begins to 
look soft and dry, turn over it a cupful of milk, and 
let it simmer until the rice is done and nearly dry; 
take from the fire and beat in a well -beaten egg. 
Eat it warm with cream and sugar. Flavour to 
taste. 



268 Us Two Cook Book 

RICE PUDDING. 

To one cup of freshly boiled rice add two table- 
spoons of sugar, one cup of milk, two well beaten 
eggs, half cup raisins and flavouring to taste. Bake 
in moderate oven half hour. 

BANANA OR ORANGE CUSTARD. 

Arrange slices of fruit in glass dish, pour over 
them boiled custard, chill and cover with meringue. 

BLANC MANGE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of prepared cornstarch to 
one pint of milk, mix the starch in a little of the 
milk. Heat the remainder of milk and when boiling 
add the dissolved starch. Boil a few minutes stir- 
ring constantly. Sweeten and flavour to taste. 
Allow to cool in mould. Serve with cream and 
sugar, jelly or preserves. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Two cups scalded milk, three eggs, pinch of salt, 
one teaspoonful of cornstarch mixed with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Little nutmeg. Beat eggs, add 
sugar and salt, pour on slowly scalded milk; strain 
in buttered mould, set in pan of hot water. Sprinkle 
with nutmeg, and bake in slow oven until firm, 
which may be readily determined by running silver 
knife through custard; if knife comes out clean, 
custard is done. 

CUP CUSTARD. 
Break into a coffee-cup an egg, put in two tea- 



Desserts 269 

spoonfuls of sugar, beat it up thoroughly, a pinch 
of salt and a pinch of grated nutmeg; fill up the 
cup with good sweet milk; turn it into another cup, 
well buttered, and set it in a pan of boiling water, 
reaching nearly to the top of the cup. Set in the 
oven, and when the custard is set it is done. Eat 
cold. 

A NICE DESSERT DISH. 

Fill a quart bowl with alternate layers of thinly 
sliced apples and sugar, and add half a cup of water, 
cover with a saucer, held in place by a weight; 
bake slowly three hours; let it stand until cold, and 
you will turn out a round mass of clear red slices, 
imbedded in firm jelly. For an accompaniment to a 
dessert of blanc mange, rennet custard, cold rice 
pudding, or similar dishes, or even with nice bread 
and butter, there is nothing better. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

Pick over and wash one-fourth pound prunes, 
then soak several hours in cold water to cover; cook 
in same water until soft; remove stones and rub 
prunes through strainer, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and cook five minutes; the simple mixture 
should be of the consistency of marmalade. Beat 
whites of three eggs until stiff, add prune mixture 
gradually when cold, and a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. Pile lightly in buttered pudding dish. Bake 
five minutes in slow oven and serve cold with boiled 
custard. 



270 Us Two Cook Book 

NEAPOLITAN BASKETS. 

Bake sponge cake in gem pans, cool, and remove 
centres. Fill with cream sauce No. 2, flavouring 
half the sauce with chocolate; melt chocolate, di- 
lute with hot water, cool, and add cream sauce 
slowly to chocolate. Garnish with candied cherries 
and angelica. 



'O" 



BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine in a little cold 
water for fifteen minutes; scald one-half pint of 
rich milk with two tablespoonfuls of sugar; add 
the gelatine and the beaten yolks of two eggs; take 
from the fire and add one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 
While it is cooling, whip one-half pint of cream to 
a stiff froth. When the gelatine is nearly cold, stir in 
the whipped cream gently; pour into moulds which 
have been thoroughly chilled; set on ice until mo- 
ment of serving. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Whip one-half pint of double cream to a stiff 
froth and set on ice. Beat the whites of two eggs 
stiff; add three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Stir the beaten eggs into the whipped cream just 
before serving and colour with fruit juice, preferabl}^ 
cherry. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Soak one tablespoonful of gelatine in a cup of 
cold water; add one pint of bQUiDg water, three- 



Desserts 271 

fourths cup of sugar, juice of one lemon, and stir 
until dissolved; strain and when partly cold add 
slices of oranges, bananas, white grapes and candied 
cherries. Set aw^aj on ice to chill and serve with 
whipped cream. 

SLIP. 

Slip is bonny-clabber without its acidity, and so 
delicate is its iiavour that many persons like it just 
as well as ice-cream. It is prepared thus: Make a 
pint of milk moderately warm ; then stir into it one 
junket tablet dissolved in one tablespoonful warm 
water; set it by, and when cool again it will be as 
stiff as jelly. It should be made only a few hours 
before it is to be used, or it will be tough and 
watery; in summer set the dish on ice after it has 
jellied. It must be served with powdered sugar, nut- 
meg and cream. 

BAKED PEACHES. 

Sugar, cream, peaches. Baked jjeaches are as dif- 
ferent from the stewed fruit as baked apples are 
from apple sauce. You begin by pouring boiling 
water over the peaches until the skin will easily 
slip off. Place them in one layer in a pan, sprinkle 
liberally with sugar and pour half an inch of water 
over them. Bake until tender and slightly brown, 
and serve with rich cream, either plain or whipped. 

PRUNE JELLY. 

One-half pound of prunes, well washed, then gov- 



272 Us Two Cook Book 

ered with water and allowed to soak for six hours. 
Put on to boil in same water until tender; add one- 
half pound of sugar, and boil ten minutes; strain 
and remove stones. Take one-half ounce of gelatine 
soaked in one-half cup of water. Put juice from 
prunes equal to one and one-quarter cupfuls; add 
juice of one-half lemon and orange. When this com- 
mences to boil add gelatine and prunes. Turn into 
mould and serve when cold with whipped cream. 

TRIFLE. 

Any kind of stale cake, sponge or pound cake pre- 
ferred, one tablespoonful of wine (sherry), one 
tablespoonful of brandy, strawberry or raspberry 
jam, one-half pint of cream, one-fourth teaspoon 
of vanilla for cream, one and one-fourth cup of 
chopped blanched almonds. In a dish put first a 
layer of cake, then a little brandy, then jam, then 
cake, wine, and nuts, also a little cream whipped; 
begin again as before, then add a few macaroons and 
make a wall of lady fingers. After all the cake and 
wine are used, over the top put plenty of whipped 
cream (stiff). 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Soak one-half box of gelatine in a little cold 
water; add one pint of scalded milk, the beaten 
yolks of two eggs and one-half cup of sugar; re- 
move from the fire and add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, and flavour to taste. Set on 
the ice to chill. 



Desserts 273 

. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of gelatine in a little 
cold water for fifteen minutes; dissolve with a cup 
of boiling water; add four tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar; when cool, strain slowly into a pint of 
rich cream which has been chilled and whipped to 
a stiff froth, stirring all the while the gelatine is 
being poured in. Put between layers and on the 
top of sponge cake, or turn into individual moulds 
lined with lady-fingers or sponge cake cut to fit the 
moulds. Leave in a cold place until serving time. 

SAUCES. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Cream together half cup sugar, quarter cup of 
butter. Flavour to taste. Form in any fancy shape. 
Cool and serve with hot pudding. 

MILK SAUCE. 

Half cup of sugar, one beaten egg and one table- 
spoonful of butter; pour over one cup of scalded 
milk. Put on the stove and scald again. Flavour 
to taste. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 

Heat one pint of milk to boiling; beat together 
two eggs and one-half cupful of sugar and stir into 
the hot milk. Stir gently until the mixture thickens ; 
remove from the fire, flavour to taste and serve hot. 



274 Us Two Cook Book 

CUSTARD CREAM SAUCE. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs until light; add one- 
half cup of sugar and one pint of cream or rich 
milk; stir constantly until the sauce comes to a 
boil. 

FOAM SAUCE. 

Take a half cup of white sugar, one- fourth of a 
cup of butter, one tablespoonful of cornstarch; mix 
together and beat to a cream. Set upon the stove 
and add boiling water until it is of the right con- 
sistency. Flavour with lemon or anything preferred. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

One-third of a cup of sugar, one cup of rasp- 
berries, half a tablespoonful of melted butter, half 
a cupful of hot water. Boil all together slowly, re- 
moving the scum as fast as it rises; then strain 
through a sieve. This is very nice served with bread 
or rice puddings. 

PLAIN SAUCE. 

Cream together one tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar, and pinch of salt. Add gradually boiling 
water to make right consistency. Flavour with nut- 
meg or lemon. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

Make same as plain sauce adding brandy and 
burnt sugar. 



Desserts 275 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Rub one-half cup of butter and one cup of sugar 
to a cream; add the beaten white of an egg, and 
lastly, one cup of crushed strawberries. Serve in 
a sauce pitcher, to be poured over the pudding at 
the table. 

WINE SAUCE. 

One teacup of sugar, half teacup of butter; stir 
to a cream ; beat one egg very light, and stir all to- 
gether; add half teacup of wine; mix and set on 
top of tea kettle of boiling water. It must not be 
put on the stove, nor boil. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Two eggs well beaten, one cup pulverised sugar. 
When mixed pour over one cup boiling milk, and 
stir rapidly. Flavour as you please. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick over and wash one pint of cranberries. Put 
in sauce-pan and add one and one-half cups boiling 
water. Cook until tender. Add two cups sugar, 
boil for ten minutes. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Three-fourths cup sugar, one-fourth cup water, 
two teaspoonfuls butter, one tablespoon of lemon 
juice. Make a syrup by boiling sugar and water 
eight minutes; remove from fire; add butter and 
lemon juice. 



276 Us Two Cook Book 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Three-fourths cup cream, one-fourth cup milk, one- 
third cup powdered sugar, one-half teaspoon of 
vanilla. Mix cream and milk, beat until stiff, using 
egg beater; add sugar and vanilla. 

CREAM SAUCE No. 2. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter, with one-half cup 
of powdered sugar. Add drop bv drop two table- 
spoonfuls of milk and two tablespoons of wine. If 
liquids are added too fast, the sauce will have a 
curdled appearance; it should be of soft, smooth 
consistency. 



Desserts 277 



278 Us Two Cook Book 



Desserts 279 



28o Us Two Cook Book 



Desserts 281 



282 Us Two Cook Book 



Desserts 283 



284 Us Two Cook Book 




285 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 287 

FRUITS, PICKLES AND SAUCES. 

PRESERVES. 

The kettles used for preserving, pickling, etc., 
should be of granite, or porcelain lined and the 
spoons used for stirring should be of granite or 
wood. 

Be sure that the fruit is fresh, and not over ripe. 

Preserving fruit is cooking it in from three- 
fourths to its full weight in sugar. Canning fruit 
is sterilising it by boiling and putting it into air- 
tight jars. Canned fruit is sweetened to taste, al- 
lowing sugar according to the tartness of the fruit. 
For either preserving or canning, the syrup should 
be made by cooking the sugar and water together, 
and then the fruit cooked in the syrup. 

For canning, weigh the fruit, and put into the 
kettle in which the syrup is to be made sugar 
amounting to one-third the weight of the fruit. To 
this add three cups of water to each pound of sugar, 
unless the fruit is very juicy, in which case less 
water is needed. 

For preserving, prepare the syrup with sugar 
amounting to from three-fourths to the full weight 
of the fruit and allow one cup of water to each 
pound of sugar, unless the fruit is very juicy, in 
which case only enough water to wet the sugar is 
needed. 

Berries and soft fruit may be dropped into the 
syrup and allowed to come to a boil, but pineapples 
and other hard fruit must be first cooked in boiling 
water until soft and then dropped into the syrup. 
Keep the fruit well skimmed while cooking. 



288 Us Two Cook Book 

Sterilise the cans bj putting into cold water, 
allowing the water to come to a boil. 

Wring a towel out of hot water, fold and put 
under the can while filling with the hot fruit. 

Remember that the fruit must be at the boiling 
point when put into the jars. 

Pint jars are more convenient for small families. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Above all, peaches must be spotless and not too 
ripe. Peel carefully, but do not stone them, as it 
adds to the flavour. Allow one pint of water and one 
cupful of sugar to every quart of peaches. Boil 
sugar and water for fifteen minutes; then add the 
peaches a few at a time and boil gently, and when 
a broom straw will pierce them easily they have 
cooked enough. Put the peaches in jars that have 
been well heated with boiling water, put the peaches 
in two-thirds full. Boil and skim the syrup and 
pour over the peaches until the jars are full. Seal 
at once. Keep canned goods in a cool, dark place, 
the darker the better. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Select sound, ripe peaches. Peel, halve, and stone 
them. For every quart of peaches an equal amount 
of sugar. To every three pounds of sugar, add one 
cupful of boiling water. Melt, and boil fifteen min- 
utes. Then drop in the peaches and cook them until 
a straw will pierce them easily. Skim carefully and 
put into heated jars. Boil and skim the syrup eight 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 289 

minutes longer, fill the jars with the syrup and 
seal. 

A good plan is to halve and stone them before 
peeling or take a dozen or more peaches and scald 
them by pouring boiling water over them and let 
stand two minutes, no longer. In this way they 
will easily peel. 

PRESERVED QUINCE. 

Pare, core, and quarter your fruit, then weigh it 
and allow an equal quantity of white sugar. Take 
the peelings and cores and put in a preserving ket- 
tle; cover them with water and boil for half an hour; 
then strain through a hair sieve and put the juice 
back into the kettle and boil the quinces in it a lit- 
tle at a time until they are tender; lift out as they 
are done with a drainer and lav on a dish ; if the 
liquid seems scarce add more water. When all are 
done throw in the sugar and allow it to boil ten 
minutes before putting in the quinces; let them boil 
until they change colour, say one hour and a quarter, 
on a slow fire; while they are boiling occasionally 
slip a silver spoon under them to see that they do 
not burn, but on no account stir them. Have two 
fresh lemons cut in thin slices, and when the fruit 
is being put in jars lay a slice or two in each. 

PEARS. 

Bartlett pears are best for canning. Pare; 
quarter; core and drop into cold water to prevent 
discolouration. Follow Directions for Canning and 
Preserving; add a few slices of lemon with the peel 
to the syrup. 



290 Us Two Cook Book 

PLUMS. 

Select good fruit, Damson plums are best, and 
after looking them over carefully, put in a vessel 
of boiling water; let stand one minute; remove to 
a platter and take off the skins at once. For every 
pound of fruit allow two-thirds of a pound of sugar 
and one-third of a pint of water. Make a syrup of 
the water and sugar; put in the plums and let 
cook until soft, keeping well skimmed ; remove from 
the syrup with a skimmer, being careful not to 
break the fruit, and follow the Directions for Can- 
ning and Preserving. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

Stone the fruit, weigh it, and for every pound 
take three-quarters of a pound of sugar. First dis- 
solve the sugar in water in the proportion of a pint 
of water to a pound and a half of sugar; then add 
the fruit and let it boil as fast as possible for half 
an hour, till it begins to jelly. As soon as it 
thickens put in pots, cover with brandied paper, 
next the fruit, and then cover closely from the air. 

CANNED CHERRIES. 

Prepared in the same manner, allowing but half 
a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit ; after putting 
the fruit into the syrup let it scald (not boil hard) 
for ten or fifteen minutes and then can and seal. A 
few of the cherry stones put in a muslin bag and 
put into the syrup to scald with the fruit imparts 
a fine flavour; they should not be put in the jars with 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 291 

the fruit. This method is excellent for use with all 
the small fruits, as strawberries, raspberries, and 
also plums. 

RASPBERRIES. 

Prepare and follow Directions for Canning and 
Preserving. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Prepare and follow Directions for Canning and 
Preserving. 

PRESERVED BLACK CURRANTS. 

Pick over and wash two quarts of black currants. 
Put them into kettle with enough water to be seen 
through the currants, boil slowlj until currants are 
tender. Then add one cup of sugar to every cup of 
fruit, and boil twenty minutes. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Pick over the raspberries. Mash a few in the 
bottom of a preserving kettle, using a wooden 
masher, and so continue until all the fruit is used. 
Heat slowly to the boiling point, and add gradually 
an equal quantity of heated sugar. Cook slowly 
forty minutes and put in a stone jar or jelly 
tumblers. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Prepare and follow directions as for raspberry 
jam. 



292 Us Two Cook Book 

RHUBARB JAM. 

Cut into pieces about an inch long, put a pound 
of syrup to every pound of rhubarb, and leave till 
morning; pour the syrup from it and boil till it 
thickens; then add the rhubarb and boil gently fif- 
teen minutes; put up as you do currant jelly in 
tumblers; it will keep good a year. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Take what quantity you please of red, rough, ripe 
gooseberries, take half the quantity of lump sugar, 
break them well, and boil them together for half an 
hour or more, if necessary. Put into pots and cover 
with papers. 

GRAPE JAM. 

Take your grapes, separate the skin from the 
pulp, keeping them in separate dishes, put the pulp 
in your preserving kettle with a teacup of water; 
when thoroughly heated, run them through a colan- 
der to separate the seeds ; then put your skins with 
them and weigh ; to each pound of fruit, put three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar; add merely water 
enough to keep from burning; cook slowly three- 
fourths of an hour. This is a delicious jam, and 
worth the trouble. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

To each pound of fruit add three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar; mash each separately; then put to- 
gether and boil from one-half to three-fourths of an 
hour. 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 293 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Four Seville oranges, two sweet oranges, two 
lemons cut across the grain as finely as possible; 
place in a deep disli with one and one-half quarts of 
water; let it stand thirty -six hours; boil two hours, 
(water as well) ; then add four pounds of crushed 
sugar; boil two hours longer, or until you think it 
will jelly. 

ORANGE MARMALADE NO 2. 

To each bitter orange Sllow one pint of water and 
one pound of sugar. Slice oranges, add water and 
let stand thirty-six hours. Boil tKifee hours, add 
sugar and boil one. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Wild raspberries as well as wild strawberries 
make the best jellies. They should not be overripe, 
should be among the first pickings, and not gathered 
directly after a rain. In making raspberry jelly, one 
has to but follow the recipe for currant jelly, using 
jpspberries in place of currants. When currants 
and raspberries are used in equal proportions a de- 
licious jelly is the result. ® 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash the currants and put them in a kettle over 
a very slow fire with a small quantity of water; cool 
and strain ; for every pint of juice add a pound of 
sugar; let boil for twenty minutes from the time the 
boiling#)egins. When it is cool, pour a teaspoonful 
of melted paraffine over the top of each glass. 



2Q4 Us Two Cook Book 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Wash ; cut in halves and put in a kettle with just 
enough water to cover them; cook thoroughly; put 
in a bag and drain. For every pint of juice add one 
pound of sugar and let boil twenty minutes. 

i^ GRAPE JELLY. 

Make your grape jelly before the frost touches the 
grapes and you will have better jelly. Wash and 
stem and put in a kettle with just enough water to 
cover and boil until the juice is well extracted. Put 
in a bag and let drip until nothing but the pulp is 
left; for every cup of juice add one cup of sugar; 
boil twenty minutes and pour into jelly glasses; 
when cool pour melted paraffine over the top. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Pare as many apples as you wish of some nice 
variety, neither sweet nor sour; core them by using 
an apple-corer or a steel fork; set them in biscuit 
tins and fill the cavities with sugar, a little butter, 
and some ground cinnamon, if you like; set them in 
the oven and bake until done. 

PICKLES. 

MIXED MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One quart of onions, one quart cucumbers, one 
quart cauliflower cut in small pieces. Cover with 
strong brine and leave over night. In morning pour 
off the brine and drain pickles well. Put one quart 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 295 

of vinegar in preserving kettle, chop two heads of 
celery fine and cook in it till tender, then add three 
red peppers cut fine. Mix one cup brown sugar, 
quarter cup of mustard, third cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one teaspoonful of butter, one-half 
ounce tumeric, one egg, with cold vinegar, stir into the 
hot vinegar and cook. Pour boiling over vegetables 
and bottle. 

GREEN CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Two quarts cold vinegar, one-half ounce of ginger 
root, two tablespoonfuls of salt, ounce of white 
mustard seed, ounce of peppercorns, a few red pep- 
pers. Drop in as many cucumbers, beans, etc., as 
the vinegar will cover. Good to use in a month. 
Stir frequently. 

CHUTNEY. 

Four apples (chopped fine), four peppers (two red 
and two green), six tomatoes (peeled), four large 
onions, quarter of a cup of salt, one-half pound of 
brown sugar, half a pound of raisins (chopped), one 
quart of vinegar, one-half ounce of ginger, all 
chopped fine and boiled till thick. 

RICKLED PEACHES. 

Scald, and the skin will slip off easily; make suf- 
ficient syrup to cover well. To one quart of good 
sharp cider-vinegar, add one pint of water, a stick 
of cinnamon, a teaspoonful of unground cloves, and 
sweeten to taste; cook peaches until tender, remove 



296 Us Two Cook Book 

from the syrup and put in stone or glass jars. Boil 
the syrup for one-half hour; pour over the peaches 
and cover. The oils of spices may be used, and are 
very fine, but they must be used with judgment, and 
only a few drops at a time, until you have the desired 
flavour. 

PICKLED PEARS. 

Pare and if small pickle whole. Prepare the same 
as pickled peaches. 

PICKLED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Slice green tomatoes; put in layers in a stone 
crock, adding salt as each layer is put in until the 
crock is nearly full; let stand over night. In the 
morning drain and pour clear water over them. Pre- 
pare syrup as for pickled peaches; put in the to- 
matoes just long enough to heat through well. Re- 
move from the syrup; fill jars three-fourths full; 
boil the syrup for one-half hour; pour over the to- 
matoes and cover. 

PICKLED GREEN TOMATOES. No. 2. 

Cut half peck of green tomatoes and six large 
onions into thin slices; let them remain in salt and 
water over night; then pour off the brine and put 
them in a preserving kettle with four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, four of the best mustard, two teaspoonfuls 
of ground cloves, two of cinnamon, one of cayenne 
pepper, and one of curry powder, and let them 
simmer for one hour; then put them in stone or glass 
jars. 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 297 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Peel small onions until they are white. Scald 
them in salt and water until tender, then take them 
up, put them into wide-mouthed bottles, and pour 
over them hot spiced vinegar; when cold, cork them 
close. Keep in a dry, dark place. A tablespoonful 
of sweet oil may be put in the bottles before the 
cork. The best sort of onions for pickling are the 
small white buttons. 

CHOW CHOW. 

One quart tomatoes, one white onion, three 
green peppers, one-half dozen cucumbers, one head 
of cabbage, all chopped fine; let this stand over 
night; sprinkle a half cup of salt in it. In the 
morning drain off the brine, and season with one 
teaspoonful celery seed, one-half ounce turmeric, 
pinch cayenne pepper, one-half cup brown sugar, 
one-half ounce cinnamon, one-half ounce allspice, 
one-half ounce black pepper, a few cloves, vinegar 
enough to cover, and boil two hours. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Scald the tomatoes and slip off the skins; slice 
and cook until thoroughly heated through; salt; put 
ill jars, sealing as tightly as possible. 

CANNED CORN. 

To can corn pluck the ears and cut the corn off 
on the same day; put in glass sealers, make or buy 
a little stamper and stamp it down well and firm in 



298 Us Two Cook Book 

the jar, and the juice will come up in plenty and 
cover your corn nicely; then put on rubbers and 
seal it tight as you can. Put in a boiler in cold 
water and after it comes to a boil let boil for three 
hours. I put two little pieces of narrow board 
across the bottom of boiler on the little rim around 
the bottom. You can do about ten quart jars at 
once. When removed tighten the tops again. 

CANNED PEAS. 

Shell when nice and fresh; fill jars good and full, 
fill with cold water; seal up and boil for three hours 
same as corn. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Scald and skin one peck of ripe tomatoes. To 
one-half pound of brown sugar add one tablespoon- 
ful of salt, half teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, half 
ounce of ground allspice and mace, and half ounce 
of ground cinnamon; mix thoroughly and add to the 
tomatoes; add one pint of the best cider vinegar; 
mix thoroughly and press through a sieve. Put 
into a preserving kettle and boil slowly until 
reduced one-half. Put in small bottles and seal. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

Boil one peck tomatoes for one hour with six red 
peppers, strain through a colander, and add a half 
pound salt, three tablespoons of black pepper 
ground, one ounce ginger ground, one ounce all- 
spice ground, half ounce cloves ground, two onions ; 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 299 

boil for another hour, then add quarter pound 
mustard and half pint of vinegar, then bottle. 

GOVERNOR'S SAUCE. 

Slice a peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle salt over 
them, say about a cupful, and let them stand one 
night; in the morning pour off the liquor, and put 
them in a kettle with vinegar enough to cover them, 
add six green or red peppers, (moderate size), four 
large onions chopped fine, one cup of brown sugar, 
one cup of scraped horse-radish, a tablespoonful of 
cloves, one of allspice, a teaspoonful of cayenne, one 
of white pepper; let it simmer till soft, put into 
jars and always keep it air tight. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Two tablespoons mustard, one teaspoon sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, boiling water enough to mix it; 
when cold, add one tablespoon salad oil and vinegar 
enough to thin it. This will keep a week or two. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Two large onions, three peppers chopped fine. 
Select six large ripe tomatoes, one tablespoonful of 
salt, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of nutmeg, 
one tablespoonful of cloves, ginger and horseradish, 
two cups of vinegar. Cook slowly for two hours. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Stew five pounds of grapes over a slow fire until 
soft, then strain through a sieve. Add one and a 



300 Us Two Cook Book 

half pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls of salt, cinnamon and allspice, one 
quarter of a teaspoonful of red pepper, a few cloves 
(ground), and one teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 
Mix all together and boil till quite thick. 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 301 



302 Us Two Cook Book 



Fruits, Pickles and Sauces 303 



304 Us Two Cook Book 




305 



Miscellaneous 307 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

SALADS 

Everything in the make-up of a salad should be of 
the freshest material, the vegetables crisp and fresh, 
the oil or butter the very best, meats, fowl and fish 
well cooked, pure cider or white-wine vinegar — in 
fact, every ingredient first class, to insure success. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Drain the liquor from one can of lobster; turn 
out on a plate and pick to pieces removing all the 
bones; add five or six gerkins; five or six olives, from 
which the stones have been removed ; chop ; season 
w^ith salt and pepper; place in the refrigerator to 
chill. Just before serving mix with Mayonnaise 
Dressing; serve on a bed of lettuce; garnish with 
hard boiled eggs. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil a plump fowl until tender. \^lien cool tear 
meat from bone. Remove all fat, gristle and skin. 
Cut the meat into small cubes; do not hash it. If 
possible, use only the white meat. 

To the chicken add about one-half as much celery, 
cut in pieces about one-quarter of an inch long. Mix 
thoroughly and sprinkle with salt and a few drops of 
lemon juice. Then place on ice. 

Just before serving the salad add dressing and 
stir well together. Enough dressing should be used 
to make the salad moist. 



3o8 Us Two Cook Book 

Put a spoonful or more of the salad on a lettuce 
leaf, place on top of each portion a teaspoonful of 
the Mayonnaise Dressing and garnish with lemon, 
cold hard boiled eggs, cut in thin slices, capers, or 
pitted olives cut in halves. Sweet Spanish peppers 
may also be used as a garnish with good effect. 

PLAIN CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Pare and cut the cucumber, crosswise, into ihin 
slices. Arrange on chilled plates with or without 
lettuce leaves and serve with Plain French Dressing. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil three potatoes with their skins on; when 
cold, skin and chop. Add one small onion, chopped 
with two pieces of celery; season with salt and 
pepper; garnish with hard boiled eggs and serve 
with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Select tender, crisp head lettuce. Wash with care 
in cold water the inner leaves and lay in a clean dry 
towel to absorb the moisture. Serve with French 
Dressing and accompany with radishes. 

NUT AND LETTUCE SALAD. 

Wash and shred fine with the hands two heads of 
fresh, crisp lettuce; chop one cup of English wal- 
nuts; add the lettuce; arrange in the centre of 
lettuce leaves. Serve with Mayonnaise Dressing. 



Miscellaneous 309 

WATERCRESS AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Prepare the watercress as for the Lettuce Salad. 
Add chilled cucumbers cut in dice or in thin slices. 
Serve with French Dressing. 



/ 



PLAIN FRUIT SALAD. 



Peel two oranges; separate into sections and re- 
move the pulp. Peel three bananas and cut into 
slices. Wash half pound of Malaga grapes ; cut each 
grape in half, remove the seeds and if the skins are 
tough, peel before cutting. Put the fruit together 
and add the meats from half-dozen English walnuts. 
Serve with French Dressing. Any kind of fresh 
fruit can be added to suit the taste. Pineapple 
juice or any other fruit juice may be used instead 
of the French Dressing. Always chill before serving. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

To half can of tomatoes, or four medium sized 
fresh tomatoes, add half teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
quarter teaspoonful of cloves, half a small onion, 
one tablespoonful of vinegar, a bay leaf and a 
pinch of salt and one of pepper. Cook until the 
tomatoes are dissolved ; add one teaspoonful of 
Knox's gelatine which has previously been soaked in 
quarter cup of water. Pass the tomatoes through a 
sieve and pour over the gelatine while hot. Pour 
into small moulds or jelly glasses (half full) and set 
on ice. Serve on lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing. Tomato jelly is very nice with cold meats, 
roasts and fish. 



310 Us Two Cook Book 

TOMATO SALAD. 

^Select two tomatoes of similar size, plunge into 
boiling water. Remove and cut out a circular piece 
around the stem end of each. Remove the skin, and 
set aside on ice to chill. When ready to serve, 
dispose each tomato on a lettuce leaf seasoned with 
French Dressing. Fill each cavity with a spoonful 
of finely chopped nut meats and fruit and Mayon- 
naise Dressing, with a large candied cherry on top. 

TOMATO AND SHRIMP SALAD. 

Peel large, smooth tomatoes and cut in half and 
scoop out the seeds, leaving only the shell, take a can 
of shrimps and drain them properly and set on ice 
till thoroughly cooled; the tomatoes the same; mix 
the shrimps and Mayonnaise Dressing and fill the 
shells; place each on a crisp lettuce leaf and serve 
with more of the dressing. 

APPLE NUT SALAD. 

Boil and peel some French chestnuts, cut in small 
pieces, mix with celery, and tart apples cut in 
slender strips. Pour over the salad a Mayonnaise 
Dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

First prepare the cabbage by letting it stand for 
some time in cold water, in order to make it crisp; 
dry well and shave as finely as possible. Choose a 
firm white cabbage. Mix thoroughly with Salad 
Dressing. 



Miscellaneous 311 

BEET SALAD. 

Boil three young beets, chop fine and pour over 
them Salad Dressing. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One egg well beaten, three tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
one tablespoonful olive oil or butter, one teaspoonful 
mustard, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls cream. Beat all to- 
gether, let come to a boil until of the consistency 
of thick cream. Serve when cold. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Beat well with a silver fork on a large flat plate 
the yolks of two fresh eggs. Add one level tea- 
spoonful each of dry mustard and salt well mixed 
together. To this add a teacupful or more of oil, 
beginning with a few drops at a time, mixing well, 
and adding the remainder gradually, together with 
the juice of one lemon. If the mixture separates the 
oil is being added too rapidly. In that case add 
a few drops of lemon juice and stir well, before 
putting in more oil. All of the ingredients should 
be cold when used. (It takes from half an hour 
to one hour to make the dressing, as it must be 
thoroughly stirred during all the mixing.) 

MAYONNAISE SALAD DRESSING. NO. 2. 

Yolks of two eggs, one-quarter teaspoon salt, dash 
of cayenne, one cup of cold salad oil, added to the 
egg drop by drop, one tablespoon vinegar, one table- 



312 Us Two Cook Book 

spoon lemon juice. If it curdles add to it another 
yolk. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Mix one saltspoonful of pepper with one of salt; 
add three tablespoonfuls of olive oil and one even 
tablespoonful of onion scraped fine; then one table- 
spoonful of vinegar; when well mixed, pour the 
mixture over your salad and stir alj till well 
mingled. 

CHAFING DISHES. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Ingredients: One-half pound cheese grated fine 
(ordinary Canadian), one ounce of butter, two table- 
spoons of milk, ale or consomme, one tablespoonful 
of made mustard, a little salt. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, then add grated cheese and stir till 
melted, put in the ale, milk or consomme little at a 
time, then the mustard and a very little salt. Stir 
constantly till smooth and pour over slices of hot 
buttered toast. This is sufficient to serve three 
persons, and should take about ten minutes to 
prepare. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Wrap oysters in thin slices of bacon ; pin bacon 
together with toothpicks; season with pepper. 
Have chafing dish very hot ; cook just long enough to 
crisp the bacon; serve on toast. 



Miscellaneous 313 

CHAFED OYSTERS. 

Put one pint of oysters in a chafing dish, add 
butter size of an egg, salt, pepper rnd Worcestershire 
sauce to taste. W hen the oysters begin to heat, add 
flour a little at a time, to prevent lumps, stirring 
well, until the gravy is slightly thickened. Serve on 
hot plates. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put layers of buttered bread crumbs, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and layers of oysters in the 
blazer over hot water. Have crumbs for the last 
layer. Cover the pan and cook ten minutes. 

CHEESE AND HAM. 

To one cup of white sauce add one-half cup 
chopped ham, one-half cup of grated cheese, one-half 
teaspoonful cayenne. Serve on toast. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE. 

Make a white sauce of one tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-half pint milk. When 
thick add one-half can shrimps and one-half can 
green peas. iServe when the shrimps and peas are 
hot. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Cold roast chicken, two cups of white sauce and 
two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Cut the chicken in 
slices and dip them in the oil. This should be done 



314 Us Two Cook Book 

an hour before cookiDg in the chafing dish. Then 
prepare the white sauce and cook the chicken in it 
for about five minutes. 

CREAMED CHICKEN AND MUSHROOMS. 

To one pint of cream add one pint of cold chicken 
chopped fine, and add one-half pint mushrooms. 
Heat and serve hot. 

SANDWICHES. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mince fine three or four small slices of boiled ham, 
mix with Mayonnaise Dressing, chop two green 
pickles fine. Cut bread into very thin slices, butter, 
lay on a crisp lettuce leaf, and then put in the 
filling. Press both sides of the sandwiches together. 

BEEF SANDWICHES. 

Cut roast beef thin and place between thin slices 
of buttered bread. Add horseradish if desired. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Cut white bread in thin slices, cutting away all 
crusts. Place on a slice a fine tender lettuce leaf 
and spread with Salad Dressing; cover over with 
another slice and press gently together. Nasturtium 
leaves or flowers and a bit of mustard or the yolk of 
hard-boiled egg may be added if desired. 



Miscellaneous 315 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

These are quite new. Slice medium sized cucum- 
bers very thin, and let them stand in cold salt 
and water one-half hour, then drain off and pour 
over white wine or tarragon vinegar, with a few 
drops of lemon juice, let stand one hour, lay the 
cucumber slices upon small rounds of brown bread 
spread with butter. 

WATERCRESS SANDW^ICHES. 

Wash well some watercress and dry it in a 
clean white cloth, pressing out every bit of the 
moisture. Then mix with the cress hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine, season with salt and pepper to 
taste. Cut thin slices of bread and cut away the 
crust. Cut the cress into small pieces, removing the 
stems. Place the cress between each slice of bread 
and butter, with a few drops of lemon juice on each. 
Press down the slices, and serve. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Chop together one cup of hickory nut, walnut and 
pecan meats; add half the quantity of mashed hard 
boiled eggs that you have of the chopped meats; 
mix with Mayonnaise Dressing. Spread between 
slices of buttered bread to which has been added a 
lettuce leaf trimmed to fit the bread. 

ALMOND SANDWICHES. 

Blanch the almonds; chop very fine; mix with 
Mayonnaise Dressing; spread between slices of 
buttered bread; cut in fancy shapes. 



3i6 Us Two Cook Book 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Lay between thin slices of hot buttered toast, a 
thin slice of boiled ham, then a slice of cold chicken 
and lastly a crisp lettuce leaf with Mayonaise Dress- 
ing. Serve hot 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Hard boil four eggs; be sure the eggs are nice 
and fresh. When cold, cut them into thin slices 
and lay them between very thin slices of bread and 
butter; season with salt and pepper, and a sprink- 
ling of nutmeg. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Grate cream cheese; season with salt, paprika, a 
little mustard and a few English walnut meats. 
Put between thin slices of buttered bread. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Put between thin slices of buttered bread, minced 
chicken mixed with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

ROLLED SANDWICHES. 

Cut the crust from fresh white bread; slice thin 
and butter; spread with minced meats, chopped 
nuts, chopped dates, stewed figs, or cheese, as desired. 
Roll with the hands; pin in a damp napkin and let 
stand for several hours. 

STEAMED OATMEAL. 
One teacupful of oatmeal, one quart of cold water 



Miscellaneous 317 

and a teaspoonful of salt ; gradually heat and steam 
one hour and three quarters after it begins to cook. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Soak one teacup of cracked wheat in not quite s 
quart of cold water over night; boil half an hour in 
the morning in a double boiler; add a teaspoonful 
of salt; serve with sugar and cream. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of the best grits (oatmeal 
coarsely ground) into a pint of boiling water. Let it 
boil gently, and stir it often, till it becomes as 
thick as you wish it. Then strain it, and add to it 
while warm, butter, wine, nutmeg, or whatever is 
thought proper to flavour it. Salt to taste. If you 
make the gruel of fine oatmeal, sift it, mix it first 
to a thick batter with a little cold water, and then 
put it into the saucepan of boiling water. Stir it all 
the time it is boiling, lifting the spoon gently up and 
down, and letting the gruel fall slowly back again 
into the pan. 



3i8 



Us Two Cook Book 



HOUSEKEEPER'S TIME TABLE. 



Asparagus 

Beans (pod) 

Beans with green corn 

Beef 

Beefsteak 

Beefsteak 

Beef, salted, 

Bass, fresh 

Beets, young, 

Beets, old, 

Bread, corn 

Bread, wheat 

Cabbage 

Cauliflower 

Cake, sponge 

Carrot, orange 

Chicken, 

Codfish, dry and whole . . . 

Custard ( one quart) 

Duck, tame 

Duck, wild 

Dumpling, apple 

Eggs, hard 

Eggs, soft 

Eggs 

Fowls, domestic, roasted or 

Goose wild, 

Lamb 

Meat and vegetables 

Mutton 

Mutton 

Onions 

Oysters 

Parsnips 

Pork 

Pork 

Pork 

Potatoes 

Potatoes .... 

Potatoes 

Rice 

Salmon, fresh 

Sausage 



Mode of 
Prep ra- 
tion 



Boiled .. 
Boiled . . 
Boiled . . 
Roasted, 
Broiled 
Fried... 
Boiled . . 
Broiled.. 
Boiled. . 
Boiled ., 
Baked . . 
Baked .. 
Boiled . . 
Boiled. . 
Baked . . 
Boiled . . 
Fricasseed 
Boiled . . 
Baked . . 
Roasted. 
Roasted. 
Boiled . . 
Boiled. . 
Boiled . . 
Fried... 
Boiled . . 
Roasted. 
Boiled . . 
Hashed . 
Roast . . 
Broiled . 
Boiled . . 
Stewed . 
Boiled . . 
Roast . . 
Boiled. . 
Broiled . 
Boiled . . 
Baked . . 
Ro.isted . 
Boiled... 
Boiled . . 
Fried... 



Time of 
Cooking 



HIIS. 



15 

00 

45 

25 

15 

15 

35 

20 

00 

30 

45 

00 

00 

30 

45 

1 00 

1 00 

15 

30 

1 30 

1 00 

1 00 

10 

3 

5 

1 00 

20 

20 

30 

25 

20 

30 

5 

1 00 

30 

25 

20 

30 

45 

45 

20 



MIN. 

to 30 



to the 
to the 



pound 
pound 



to the pound 



to the 
to the 



pound 
pound 



to the pound 



to the 
to the 



pound 
pound 



8 to the pound 
25 



Miscellaneous 



319 



HOUSEKEEPER'S TIME TABLE— Continued. 



Mode of 
Prepara- 
tion 



Time of 
Cooking 



Sausage 

Soup, vegetable 

Soup, cliicken 

Soup, mutton 

Spinach 

Tapioca 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes 

Trout, salmon, fresh, boiled or 

Turkey, boiled or 

Turnips 

Veal 

Venison steak 



Broiled.. 
Boiled . . 
Boiled . . 
Boiled . . 
Boiled . . 
Boiled . . 
Fresh . . 
Canned . 
Fried , . . 
Roasted, 
Boiled .. 
Broiled . 
Broiled. 



HRS. MIN. 

20 

1 00 

2 00 

3 30 
30 

1 30 
1 00 

30 

30 

20 to the pound 

45 

20 

20 



TABLE OF COMPARATIVE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



16 ounces equal 

1 quart of sifted flour " 

1 quart of powdered sugar " 

1 quart granulated sugar " 

1 closely-packed pint of butter " 

10 moderate-sized eggs " 

3 cups of sugar " 

5 cups of sifted flour " 

Butter size of an egg about 

Butter size of a walnut " 

One tablespoonful of butter " 

Average weight of a good-sized egg " 

1 pint of water or fruit juice 

1 cup — about I pint. 

GO drops — 1 teaspoonful. 

2 teaspoonfuls — 1 dessertspoonful. 

4 teaspoonfuls — 1 tablespoonful. 

2 dessertspoonfuls — 1 tablespoonful. 

1 tumbler — I pint. 

2 saltspoons — 1 teaspoon (dry). 




CT 27 190S 



