^nyp .,:< :^ >!ii|P; 


.';iiiBPiii;;i: 




MHw^^^l^^HRw^J 




TLE 


fill 




lan 


' ': !!!;iiilH;l!ii!i;!li|ii;i!ii;ii!iil!1lli!)illl!i!IHH 



^^Sw,w^ 



niMlllliniMMiiniinMIt! 




HINTS FOR OUR HOMEMAKERS 




Class 
Book 



TX'.h3. 



C)opyright}^°_ 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



Little Helps for 
Home -Makers 



A WEALTH OF 

PERSONAL PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE 
IN HOME -MAKING 

CHOSEN FROM CONTRIBUTIONS MADE BY 

^en ^ijousianb ^cmen of America 

TO THE 

NATIONAL MAGAZINE 




The Chapple Publishing Company, Ltd. 

BOSTON 



— 1 






COPYRIGHT. 1909 



TBZ CHAPPLE PUBLl HINC COMPANY, LU' 



5;G!.A253a37 



THE REASON WHY 



THE growth of popular knov>^ledge due to the interchange of 
ideas is one of the most striking features of modern progress. 
The home-maker and housewife of old largely acquired her 
skill by listening to the household lore of her mother, grandmother 
and aunts, and watching their labors. She also collected recipes and 
ideas from many friends and acquaintances in the afternoon calls, 
and amid the social chat, at the sewing society, or whist party, but 
these, neatly set down in black and white, were often merely the 
outward indication of her interest in all knowledge pertaining to 
house life and labor. 

This desire to learn is deeply rooted in our nature, and the 
American home is especially fortunate in varied opportunities to 
learn, because we inherit and utiHze all the "little helps" brought 
to America by the Briton, Gaul, Slav, Italian, German and other 
races who help to make up the American nation, each contributing 
nation'-il and often exquisite foods, dishes and methods of house- 
keeping. Out of this heterogeneous immigration has developed a 
homogeneous race that is producing the best homes in the world. 

Modern journalism has long ago acknowledged the importance 
of the home sentiment by gallant attention to the needs of women 
readers, and to details of h(jme-making, in almost every publication, 
"Little Helps for Home-makers" has loug been a prominent depart- 
ment in the National Magazine, and has crystaUzed into print the 
experience of thousands of home-loving women in all sections of the 
country, representing nearly every race that has founded homes in 
free America. 

In these "Helps" the experiences of women accustomed to 
luxury and ease, surrounded by servants, bric-a-brac, Persian rugs, 
marble stairs and polished floors, mingle with suggestions sent in by 



wives and mothers, impelled to invention by necessity and the isola- 
tion of forest and prairie homes; for it is not wealth or poverty that 
makes the home; it is the interest and skill of the home-maker. 
Those living far from the shops, accustomed to making their own soap, 
yeast and preserves, are trained by their environment to make things 
which city dwellers can obtain at a moment's notice. All true 
housewives, however, are actuated by the same ideals, whether living 
in castle or cottage, crowded city apartment house or lonely ranch. 

The "Little Helps" are contributed by home-makers living 
in all sections of the country, who have conferred with each other 
through the pages of the National Magazine, and are of great value. 
In one respect it is one of the most notable and distinctive books 
ever published, for it has been actually made by the home-makers 
of America themselves, and embodies the broad, democratic cama- 
raderie of the people of the republic, without the emasculation and 
inevitable compression due to the hypercriticisra of one or more 
editors engaged in collecting recipes of set purpose, and in accordance 
with the best authorities. 

Homely and helpful, the contributions of thousands of home- 
makers are here presented with the feeling that "Little Helps" will 
be widely appreciated in every home in the country. 

THE PUBLISHERS. 



Little Helps for Home-Makers 



SARDINE TOAST 



Take Norwegian smoked sardines ("Norway Maid" brand for choice) or 
fine French goods, which cost much more; remove the fish without breaking 
and serve between sHces of toast, with crisp lettuce leaves, slices of tomatoes and 
a dash of Mayonnaise and lemon juice. Crackers may be used instead of toast, 
but are not as good. 

RUSSIAN DIPHTHERIA CURE 

Mix one tablespoonful of Stockholm tar with one tablespoonful of spirits 
of turpentine. Burn in an iron shovel or earthen dish and let the invalid inhale 
the smoke freely. This has been proved thousands of times. 



USES FOR AMMONIA 

To clean brushes put a teaspoonful of ammonia in a quart of water, wash 
your brushes and combs in this, and all grease and dirt will disappear; rinse, 
shake and dry in the sun or by the fire. 

Keep nickel, silver ornaments and mounts bright by rubbing with a woolen 
cloth saturated with ammonia. 

Equal parts of ammonia and turpentine will remove paint from clothing, 
even if it be dry and hard. Saturate the spot as often as necessary and wash 
out with soapsuds. 

One teaspoonful of ammonia in a teacupf ul of water will clean gold or silver 
jewelry. 

A few drops of clear ammonia poured on the under side of diamonds will 
clean them immediately, making them very brilliant. 

A few drops in a cupful of warm water, applied carefully, will remove spots 
from paintings and chromos. 

Ammonia inhaled will often relieve a severe headache. 

White kid shoes can also be cleaned by dipping a perfectly clean white 
flannel cloth in a little ammonia and then rubbing the cloth over a cake of white 
soap. After doing this, rub the soiled places gently and they will be white again. 
As the flannel becomes soiled change for a clean one. 



2 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

POTATO SALAD 

For six cupfuls of cold boiled potatoes cut into small cubes, take a tablespoon- 
ful of grated onion, three tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, 
half a teaspoonful of pepper, and mix them thoroughly with the potato. Beat 
until thick and smooth one pint of sweet heavy cream and four tablespoonfuls of 
Tarragon vinegar. Mix with the salad and serve at once. 



TO KEEP GRAPES 

Pick out perfect bunches of not over-ripe grapes, clip the stems afresh and 
dip them in melted paraffine. Line wooden boxes with dry paper, lay the 
bunches in carefully so as not to crowd each other, cover with paper, then with 
fruit and so on until the box is full. Cover well with paper and keep in a cool 
place. 

TO MEND A LAMP CHIMNEY 

When a glass lamp chimney cracks or a small piece falls out it may be made 
useful for a time with a piece of muslin saturated with alum or soda or borax, 
dried and pasted over the break. Such a patch will not burn out, and is some- 
times a most convenient resource. 



SPRINKLE CLOTHES ON THE LINES 

A garden hose with a very fine spray nozzle can be used to sprinkle a whole 
washing on the line. The plain clothes can be rolled and laid in the basket as 
they are taken down, and starched goods sprinkled a little more by hand if 
necessary. 



FEATHER AND DOWN COMFORTERS 

If ducks and geese are killed in cold weather the down should be picked 
and saved separately, exposed to oven heat to kill vermin, and used to fill quilted 
skirts and coverlets, which have no equal for lightness and warmth. Old 
feather beds and pillows should be used to make coverlets or "comforters," 
using silkaline or fine cotton, and knotting with worsted or narrow ribbon. 



CORNSTARCH PIE 

Beat the yolk of an egg with one cup of sugar and one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls cornstarch (wet the cornstarch with a little milk); put all into one 
pint of boihng milk, stir constantly until a nice custard; when it is only warm, 
flavor with lemon and fill in a crust already baked; when baked, frost it and set 
in the oven till a delicate golden brown. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 3 

TO KEEP MILK 

A cheap refrigerator can be made of a biscuit tin placed in a wooden box 
which is Hned on the sides and bottom with many thicknesses of paper, until the 
tin is closely packed in. A small piece of ice should be placed in this, leaving 
room for bottles of milk and cream and the butter dish. Press down the cover 
and over the whole lay a board cover, hned like the box with an inch or so of paper. 
If the cover fits well the ice will melt very slowly indeed. 

It is said that a teaspoonful of grated horseradish will keep a quart of milk 
sweet for several days. 



POTATOES FOR SWEEPING 

Potatoes well washed and mashed or cut very fine if sprinkled over a floor 
or carpet before sweeping will prevent dirt and aid much in restoring floors and 
carpets. 

A NIGHT LAMP 

Cut a thin slice from a smooth cork, halve it and connect the pieces with 
a thin piece of sheet brass or tin, just large enough to let the little raft thus 
made swing easily inside a tumbler or goblet. Put through a small hole in the 
center of the connecting metal a piece of white cord about an inch long; fill 
the glass two-thirds full of water, and pour upon the water about half an inch 
of sperm or cottonseed oil. Float the wick upon it and light. 



POOR MAN'S CAKE 

Five eggs, five level teaspoonfuls of sugar, pinch of salt, flour enough to roll; 
beat the whites and yolks separately; add the sugar to the yolks, then stir in 
the whites; roll out very thin, cut in diamonds or squares and fry in hot lard; 
when done, sprinkle with sugar. 

TO PEEL BOILED EGGS 

Boil the eggs in salt water; the salt cracks the shell and loosens it from 
the egg. 

DOUGHNUTS THAT KEEP SOFT 

Two eggs; beat whites, then add the yolks and beat again. One cup light- 
brown sugar (do not use granulated sugar as it makes a dry cake); one cup 
mashed potatoes (left from dinner); one tablespoonful of melted lard; one cup 
of sweet milk; cinnamon and nutmeg to taste; two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, sifted in flour; make stiff enough to roll out and fry in kettle of hot 
lard. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



TO SAVE ICE BILL 

I put a board to fit the bottom of the ice compartment of ice box, to protect 
it from being broken when ice was put in, and found my ice lasted much longer. 

Put newspapers on each shelf and when anything is spilled, it is easy to 
change the paper on that shelf and saves washing every shelf in the ice box. 



TO MAKE FRUIT PIES 

In making any kind of fruit pie, do not put in any sugar; season it, other- 
wise, just as usual; take the usual quantity of sugar, make a syrup, and ini- 
mediately on taking pie from the oven pour in the hot syrup through the slit 
on the top crust; it is dehcious and no loss of juice in the oven. 



MOCK-CHERRY PIE 

One cup cranberries, one cup maple sugar, one cup water, one-half cup 
seeded raisins, one tablespoonful flour; boil all together, stirring in flour, moist- 
ened with water; when cold, add teaspoonful vanilla and a httle extract of 
almond; bake with two crusts. 

ORANGE EXTRACT 

Shave off thinly the yellow rind of three oranges; put these shavings into 
one-half pint of the best alcohol. Cover closely and let stand four days, then 
strain. This will fill several extract bottles, is a superior article for flavoring, 
and costs less than that sold in the stores. 



BUTTERMILK PIE 

This recipe has been in use for over a hundred years and is well worth trying. 

One egg, two large tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of buttermilk (fresh), 
one scant cup of sugar; beat the egg until light, add the sugar and flour, and enough 
of the buttermilk to make a thick batter; beat until smooth, then add the rest 
of the buttermilk; bake with one crust in a hot oven; a little baking powder in 
the crust is an improvement for this kind of pie. 



BAKED HASH 

A bowl full of each of the following: cooked onions, sliced cold potatoes, 
chopped meat and bread crumbs; season with salt and pepper; wet with rich 
milk, or cream, mix well, put in a shallow pudding pan, dot with butter and bake 
till well done. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 5 

TO REMOVE PEACH STAINS 
Put cream of tartar on the water-soaked stains and place the article in the 



SPROUTING POTATOES 

To keep potatoes from sprouting, fill the barrels half full and give them a 
good shaking occasionally; I have followed this plan for years, successfully. 



TO PARE PINEAPPLES 

Slice pineapples before paring and the task will be much easier and a great 
deal of the fruit saved. 



TO REMOVE MATCH MARKS 

Rub the spot with a cut lemon; then to prevent a repetition of the offence, 
apply a little vaseline and rub the spot dry with a cloth; it will be difficult to 
again strike a match thereon. 

REMOVING STAINS 

To remove iron rust from clothing, cover the spots with hot, stewed, unsweet- 
ened rhubarb. 

Peach stains may be easily removed by soaking in sweet milk an hour be- 
fore washing. 

For coffee and most fruit stains, pour boiling water through the spots. 

For chocolate, cocoa or tea stains, wash in cold water. 

Cover grass stains with cream of tartar, wet with cold water, and place in 
sun. 

For blood stains, soak in cold water, or water and salt; when nearly gone, use 
soapy water. 

Machine oil, or axle grease, should be covered with lard, washed with cold 
water and soap, then with hot water and soap. 

Red ink stains should be washed with ammonia and water. 



FOR THE WHITE SINK 

I want to tell how to clean a white sink so that it will look like 
new; mine got so stained with dish water that no amount of scouring with 
powders would clean it; one day, I accidentally spilled some hot water with 
cooking soda and chloride of lime in it, and the spots disappeared like magic; 
so, once a week, I clean it v/ith that, wipe it out with kerosene oil and my 
sink is as white as snow. 



6 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

A NEW DISH 

Put in saucepan one cup of oatmeal, cover with cold water, seasoned with 
little more salt than is usually used when oatmeal is eaten with sugar. Chop, or 
grate, one-half a cup of cheese; set the oatmeal on back of stove where it will 
gradually come to a boil; when it begins to boil, stir in grated cheese and butter 
size of a walnut; stir constantly, until cheese melts; when melted, the mixture 
is ready to serve. Serve hot on toasted crackers. 



AN ANTIDOTE FOR POISON 

A physician once told me that a poison of any conceivable description and 
degree of potency, swallowed intentionally or by accident, may be rendered 
harmless by swallowing two gills of sweet oil. The oil will neutralize every form 
of vegetable or mineral poison with which physicians are acquainted. 



, A NEW DISH 

Pull dried beef into small pieces, pour some warm water over it and let 

stand for two or three minutes; break six eggs, add three tablespoonfuls of 
sweet milk (cream is much better, if you have it) and beat well; have skillet hot 
with meat fryings of lard and butter; pour in eggs and then sprinkle beef on top 
and stir well until done; pour into hot dish and serve. 



COATING CURED PORK 

After pork has been well sugar-cured and ready to hang up, give each piece 
a thorough coating of lime and ashes, equal parts, mixed with water; it looks ugly 
but washes off beautifully, and keeps the meat with its finest flavors, free from 
insects. 



USES OF TURPENTINE 

After a housekeeper fully realizes the worth of turpentine in the house, 
she is never wilUng to be without a supply of it. It is a sure preventive against 
moths by just dropping a trifle in the bottom of drawers, chests and cupboards; 
it will render the garments secure from injury during the summer. It will keep 
ants and bugs from closets and store-rooms by putting a few drops in the corners 
and upon the shelves; it is sure destruction to bedbugs and will effectually drive 
them away from their haunts, if thoroughly applied to all the joints of the bed- 
stead in the spring cleaning time. It injures neither furniture or clothing. A 
spoonful of it added to a pail of warm water is excellent for cleaning paint. A 
little in suds on washing days lightens laundry labor. It gives quick relief to burns. 
It is an excellent application for corns. It is good for rheumatism and sore 
throats. Try it. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 7 

FOR SLEEPLESSNESS 

Drink a cup of hot cocoa, without sugar, just before retiring and you will 
not be troubled with sleeplessness. 

HINT IN BEAD-WORK 

When doing bead-work with fine beads, dip the needle in water frequently 
and the beads will shp up the needle easily and also cling together. 



VERY FINE MARSHMALLOWS 

Two level tablespoonfuls of gelatine, soaked in seven tablespoonfuls of water 
for one-half hour; two cups of granulated sugar, ten tablespoonfuls of water; 
cook until it makes long threads from spoon ; pour over gelatine on large platter 
and beat twenty minutes; add one-half teaspoonful of vanilla; have square 
cake tin well buttered, pour in and let stand one hour or more, till solid; turn 
out on powdered sugar on board or paper, cut in squares, and keep in tight jars 
well powdered. 

A COOKING HELP 

If you bum anything cooking in a pan or kettle, fill the utensil partly full 
of water in which a little lye has been dropped, let stand to soak a while, then 
place on the stove until the water boils ; you will find that the burnt portion can 
be easily washed off and that the kettle will be as good as new. Should any of 
the burnt portion remain, a little sapoUo will take it off. 



STARCH FOR BLACK DRESSES 

To make starch for black lawn, or any solid black fabric and make it look 
like new, take black diamond dye, dissolve same as you would for coloring; keep 
bottled; when you make the starch, make it quite thin; strain the dye and pour 
a little (not too much) into the starch and stir thoroughly; then strain starch 
and it is ready for the black goods; you will find that you will have something 
that will please you when laundered. 



DELICIOUS JAM 

Delicious currant or raspberry jam may be easily made by thoroughly crush- 
ing the fruit, leaving none whole, then add, by measure, an equal quantity of 
granulated sugar; mix with great thoroughness, put in cans and keep in a cool 
place; the delicate flavor of jam prepared in this manner will surprise those who 
taste it for the first time, and it is cool work and so easy as compared with the old 
way. 



8 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TIRED FEET 

Bathe the feet once a day in warm water, to which salt or borax has been 
added; then dry and rub with hnseed oil. 



BLOOD STAINS 

To remove blood stains where soap and water cannot be used, as on pillow 
ticks, etc., make a thick paste of laundry starch and warm water; cover the 
soiled places and let remain until perfectly dry, then brush off the powder; 
sometimes it is necessary to repeat the process. 



FOR BUGS AND MOTHS 

Spirits of turpentine applied freely with a brush, will do away with bed-bugs 
and moths in walls, carpets, furniture or upholstery. 



POACHING EGGS 

A couple drops of vinegar added to the water in which the eggs are to be 
poached will keep the whites from separating. 



USES OF LEMONS 

The lemon is not suflficiently appreciated from a hygienic standpoint; for 
instance: 

Lemon juice removes stains from the hands. 

A dash of lemon juice in plain water is an excellent tooth wash; it not only 
removes the tartar, but sweetens the breath. 

Lemon juice applications will allay irritation caused by the bites of insects. 

The juice of a lemon taken in hot water on awakening is an excellent liver 
corrective, and for stout people is better than any "anti-fat" medicine ever 
invented. 

Glycerine and lemon juice, half and half, on a bit of absorbent cotton is the 
best thing in the world wherewith to moisten the lips of a fever-parched patient. 

Lemon juice and salt will remove rust stains. 

For a manicure aid lemon juice is all that is necessary for loosening the 
cuticle and for h'-ightening and cleansing the nails. 

Save your lemon rinds and dry them for kindling; a handful will revive a 
dying fire. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 9 

CEMENTS 

Grafting Wax: — Rosin, five ounces; beeswax, one ounce; tallow, one 
ounce; or in like proportion. Melt and mix tlioroughly. Apply to scions 
while warm, but not hot, with a sm.all wooden paddle. It will require no 
strings or bandages to hold the scions in place. 

Aquarium Cement: — Also useful for mending leaks in tanks, metallic 
roofs, etc. Take of litharge, fine dry, white sand and plaster of Paris, one gill 
each, and of finely powdered rosin, one-third gill. Mix thoroughly and make 
into a paste with boiled linseed oil and some good dryer. Let stand four or 
five hours before using, but if it stands fifteen hours it loses its strength. Glass 
laid in this will keep in either salt or fresh water. 

Armenian Cement: — Dissolve a small amount of gum mastic in full strength 
alcohol and in another vessel cook an equal amount of gelatine until softened, 
and dissolve it in brandy or rum; unite the two mixtures and place in a two- 
ounce vial with two small bits of gum ammoniacum; place the vial in a skillet 
full of cold water, and boil until the cement is completely dissolved. When used 
soften in the same way by gradual heating. It will unite metals and glass to each 
other or to pohshed steel. 

Label Cement: — Mix dry, finely powdered white sugar, one ounce; finely 
powdered starch, three ounces ; finely powdered gum arable, four ounces. 
Rub well together in a dry mortar, then add little by little cold water until it 
is about the consistency of melted glue. Or it may be kept in the powdered 
state and mixed as required for use. 

China Cement: — Beat thoroughly together equal quantities of white of 
egg and cold water. Make into a thin paste with powdered quicklime and use 
at once. 

Cement for Kerosene Lamp Rings: — Mix three ounces of powdered 
rosin, one ounce of caustic soda and five ounces of water. To these add five 
ounces of plaster of Paris. It will set in about three-quarters of an hour. It 
is impermeable to kerosene and quite strong. 

Cement for Leather Belts, Etc.: — Soak equal parts of common glue 
and isinglass for ten hours in just enough water to cover them. Bring gradually 
to a boiling heat, and add enough tannin to make the mixture ropy, like the white 
of eggs. Fit and roughen the surface to be joined. Apply the cement warm 
and clamp together until dry. 

To Paste Labels on Metal: — Have the surface perfectly clean, and 
brush that part to be covered with a mixture of equal parts of muriatic acid and 
alcohol. Paste the label lightly and apply with care. 

Chinese Blood Paste: — To three parts of well-beaten blood from the 
butchers, add four parts of sifted air-slaked hme and a little alum. The thin 
pasty mass (which must be used immediately) will waterproof pasteboard, 
straw matting, ordinary boxes, boats, etc., giving great strength. Two to three 
coatings should be used on a boat or aquarium. 

Iron Cement to Join Pipes: — Take coarse iron borings, powdered, three 
pounds; sal ammoniac, two ounces; sulphur, one ovmce, and sufficient water to 
moisten the mass. Use as soou as mixed, ramming it tightly into the joints. 



10 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

Cast Iron Cement: — Sal ammoniac, one-half ounce; sulphur, one-quarter 
ounce; fine iron filings, one pound. Mix with water to a paste to fill cracks or 
holes in cast iron stoves, furnaces, etc. 

Japanese Cement: — Fine rice flour paste. 

Liquid Glue: — Soak over night eight ounces of fine glue in half a pint of 
water, dissolve by heat and when nearly cool add slowly two and a half ounces 
strong nitric acid. This glue will be much stronger if isinglass is substituted for 
one-half the glue. 

Mucilage for Labels: — Soak five ounces of first-class pure glue in eighteen 
ounces of water, and boil until dissolved. Add three ounces of gum arable and 
nine ounces of rock candy. 

Mouth Glue: — Good glue, one pound; isinglass, four ounces. Soften in 
water, boil and add half a pound of sugar. Boil until it thickens and pour into 
greased moulds. Will dissolve in the moisture and warmth of the mouth and 
will fasten things quite strong. 

TO FILL CRACKS IN PLASTER 

Use vinegar instead of water to mix your plaster of Paris; the resultant 
mass will be like putty and will not "set" for twenty or thirty minutes, whereas, 
if you use water, the plaster will become hard almost immediately, before you 
have time to use it; push your "vinegar plaster" into the cracks and smooth 
it off nicely with a tableknife. 



TO CURE SHEEP-SKINS FOR MATS 

Wash the skins thoroughly in a good lather of the best soap and soft warm 
water, rubbing and scrubbing out all dirt. When cool, rinse out the soap in 
cold water. Dissolve one pound of alum, and one of salt in two gallons of water, 
place the skin in this and soak over night. Before it is quite dry sprinkle each 
skin on the fleshy side with a mixture of equal parts of alum and saltpeter, rub- 
bing the powder well into the skin. Try if the wool holds firmly; if not, let it 
remain a day or two, then rub in more alum. Fold the skins with the wool out, 
and hang in the shade for four or five days, turning them over once a day until 
quite dry. Scrape the flesh side with a blunt knife, and finish it with pumice 
stone. After being washed and before being cured, they may be dyed with 
aniline or other dyes. Lamb skins thus treated make nice mittens. 



FOR A HORSE'S COUGH 

Give in his mash the mucilage of boiled flaxseed, with a little licorice dis- 
solved in it or some honey. Feed no musty or dusty hay, give him apples, carrots 
and laxative food, and if the heaves are indicated add a tablespoonful of ground 
ginger to his feed. 

The surest cure for either cough or heaves is to ventilate well, and feed cut 
feed; i. e., hay cut fine, well wet and mixed with bran, middlings, or cornmeal. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 11 

GRASS STAINS 

To remove grass stains, dip the cloth into molasses and wash out in clear 
water. 



WHITEWASH 

1. Slake a half bushel of choice lime in a barrel; add one pound of common 
salt, half a pound sulphate of zinc and a gallon of sweet milk. 

2. To a pailful of lime and water ready for the wall, add one cup of flour 
made into a hot clear gruel, and a handful of fine salt. 



WASH FOR BARNS AND SHEDS 

Skim milk, two quarts; fresh slaked lime, half a pound; white burgundy 
pitch, two ounces, dissolved in six ounces of linseed oil ; Spanish white, three pounds. 
The lime duly slaked and cooled is to be mixed with a pint of the milk, and to 
this the oil and pitch is to be slowly added; then the rest of the milk, and the 
Spanish white. This should give two coats of white to twenty-seven square 
yards of surface. 

PAPERHANGER'S PASTE 

Beat up four pounds of good sifted flour — winter wheat flour is the best — 
in cold water to a stiff batter, and see that there are no lumps. Add cold water 
until it is about hke pudding-batter and put in two ounces of powdered alum. 
Have boihng water ready, pour it by degrees, boiling hot, on the batter, stirring 
all the time; when the paste is no longer white hke flour it is cooked and ready. 
Do not use it hot. It should make about three-fourths of a pailful of soHd 
paste. Put a Uttle water over it to prevent it from skimming, and thin with 
water as needed. 



TO TEST WATER 

Place in a clean glass jar a half pint of the water of your well, and drop in 
three or four lumps of loaf sugar. Expose to the sunlight in a warm room. If 
pure it will remain clear for a week or ten days. If it is turbid it must be contam- 
inated. 



TO INCREASE THE FLOW 

If a well is curbed with sewer pipe properly tamped, and covered in water 
and air tight, by using an air pump to exhaust the air from time to time the in- 
creased pressure will enlarge the water channels and increase the supply in the 
reservoir. 



12 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

BLACKING 

Ivory black, four ounces; brown sugar, three ounces; sweet oil, one spoonful; 
small beer, one pint. 

WATERPROOF BLACKING 

Beeswax, two ounces; beef suet, four ounces; rosin, one ounce; neat's-foot 
oil, two ounces; lampblack, one ounce. Melt together and mix well. 



WATERPROOF CLOTHING 

Dissolve two and a quarter pounds of alum in twenty gallons of boiling 
water, and in a separate vessel, two and a quarter pounds of sugar of lead in ten 
gallons of water. When both are thoroughly dissolved mix the two solutions. 
The soft woolen or cotton fabrics, shawls, etc., are dipped and thoroughly worked 
over in this mixture, until every part is penetrated. They are then squeezed or 
wrung out, and dried in the air or a warm room, then washed in cold water and 
dried in the air, when they are ready for use. Cloth, shawls, blankets, etc., thus 
treated while still porous, shed water like a duck's back. For small jobs, divide 
the above proportions by five, which would give to four gallons of water a Uttle 
less than half a pound of alum, and the same amount of sugar of lead to two 
gallons of water. 



MADE MUSTARD 

Mix smoothly with boiling vinegar four tablespoonfuls of ground mustard; 
one tablespoonfui of flour; one tablespoonful of sugar; one teaspoonful of salt; 
one teaspoonful of black pepper; one teaspoonful of cinnamon; one teaspoonful 
of cloves. Let it stand several hours before using. This will keep many weeks. 



HINTS FOR ROUGH CARPENTERING 

Nails: — There should be kept on hand at least a pound each of lath, shingle, 
ten and twenty penny nails. In driving these into spruce or hard woods, the 
nail point should be greased or oiled, a precaution that greatly lessens the labor, 
and averts much bending of nails, splitting of wood and unregenerate thought 
and ejaculation. In drawing old nails it is sometimes an advantage to hit the 
nail a sharp tap before trying to pull it out. Do not buy poor rusty nails or 
imperfect screws. A few of every common size should always be kept in stock. 

Zinc Roofs and Conductors: — A solution of acetate of lead and black 
lead spread upon zinc colors it a light-brown and protects it against oxidization. 

Shingle Roofs: — Whitewash each course of shingles down to the line, and 
wash them with some hue after all are laid and the shingles will last several 
years longer. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 13 



TO CLEAN WELLS 

The well should be examined frequently by means of a mirror, which will 
reflect the sun's rays to the very bottom. If covered or shaded, two or more 
mirrors can be used to deflect the rays to the well's mouth. Before going down 
a well, a candle or lighted lantern should be carefully lowered and watched. If 
it cannot burn in the well, the gases are fatal to human life. To remedy this, 
drop quickly to the bottom an iron bucket full of blazing shavings and drop in 
three or four quarts of fresh slaked lime. 



WATER IN CISTERNS 

Add about one ounce of hypermanganate of potash to every fifty gallons 
of water, and all impurities will be precipitated to the bottom of the cistern. 
Muddy water may be cleared by adding about an ounce of alum to every fifty 
gallons of water. 

Hard water is easily rendered soft by the use of lime water. Slack a quantity 
of good lime in a barrel of clean water, and when the lime settles, bottle the clear 
lime water. A cupful of the water will soften a barrel of hard water, precipitating 
the lime held in solution to the bottom. 



CLIPS FOR BASTING 

Instead of basting long seams, use the little clips used by businesss men 
for holding papers. A few of them placed along a seam will hold the edges 
together while it is being stitched. Keep a box in the work-basket for such 



ALUM FOR MENDING PURPOSES 

For mending hard substances, like metal or glass, there is nothing more 
satisfactory than melted alum; simply melt the alum over an intense heat and 
apply while hot. 

An ivory handle to a knife, which was loose, was mended this way over 
forty years ago, and still is in use. This can be used to fasten loose collars on 
glass lamps also. 



HOME-MADE SOAP 

Every housewife knows that dishwater will make the hands dark, but if 
she will use home-made soap after this recipe, she will have as white hands as 
heart could desire. It is also excellent for washing any kind of clothes, as it 
takes out all stains. 

Five pounds of grease (clean tallow or half tallow and half lard) ; one can of 
Babbitts potash dissolved in one quart of water; two tablespoonfuls of borax; 
three tablespoonfuls of powdered ammonia; melt grease and cool it and mix 
together; stir ten minutes, then mold in a box and cut before cold. 



14 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO KEEP RUST FROM TINWARE 

For preserving tinware and preventing it from rusting, rub the article well 
with fresh lard, covering every portion; then heat it thoroughly before using; if 
treated this way, it will never rust, no matter how much it is left in the water. 



HOW TO HULL WALNUTS 

Another way to hull walnuts is to run them, when green, through a hand 
cornsheller, setting a pail under the place where the cobs come out, to catch 
the hulled nuts. This way is more rapid and saves staining hands and dress. 



CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS 

For years I have made a practice of remembering some children at Christ- 
mas time who get presents from no one. As the pocketbook is not always 
equal to my love of giving, I have originated some things of which I have never 
heard from anyone else. 

Picture Slips: — During the year I save all good pictures of animals, 
birds, fruits or good plain views of buildings or any suitable thing; one soon 
learns to know what can be used. Now take your picture and paste on paste- 
board the same size (a good way to get rid of old boxes), then cut in strips an 
inch wide; if the picture is that of a horse, cut in five strips, and at the end of 
each strip place a letter — H on top piece, O on next, and so on till all the letters 
in "horse" are used. Use the same method for bird, flower, or whatever the 
picture is. The children who have nothing love to put these together. 

Picture Puzzles: — Instead of strips you may cut them out in all sorts 
of shapes, but be careful to make them easy for Httle folks; the pictures best 
suited for these are the colored ones to be found in magazines. You would be 
surprised, and touched, too, to see how much pleasure these simple little gifts 
give to the children. 

Story Books: — Last Christmas T made another gift that greatly pleased 
both myself and the school children who received them. I knew some children 
whose stock of story books was very limited ; yet they were often asked to recite 
in school; being children who spoke quite plainly, I conceived the idea of making 
them books. I used wall paper (any kind will answer) cutting it in suitable 
sizes for use; on these sheets I pasted little stories, poetry, cute sayings, some 
picture rebuses, and the like; when all pasted, I put the sheets together with a 
cord, using pasteboard covers, pasting a picture on the front cover, leaving the 
back one plain. The children say: "We won't have to ask teacher any more 
for pieces to speak." 

Picture Blocks: — For quite small children, T use small pictures of animals, 
babies, flowers, anything that will please the little tots; cut out straight and 
paste on smooth wooden blocks the same size of picture, and about one-half inch 
thick. My twelve-year-old boy saws out the blocks for me — if you have no boy, 
perhaps your neighbor's boy will help you out. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 15 

MOTH KILLER 

If moths get into the closet, saturate a cloth twelve inches square with 
formaldehyde; place cloth in the closet and close up tightly for twelve hours. 
The same plan may be used in chests, trunks, or boxes, where clothing is stored. 
The fumes will kill moths as well as their eggs; also germs of any kind. No 
odor is left in. the clothing. 

PLENTY OF HOT WATER 

I find one of the best ways to always have plenty of hot water on hand is 
to keep it in my milk pails on the back of my range. I use lard pails to keep 
it in; when they are washed each morning, I fill them with fresh water and leave 
them on the stove while I do my cooking, and in this way have plenty of hot 
water for my dishes, besides having my pails scalded and sweet for the next 
morning's supply of milk; repeat this each day and you will seldom, if ever, have 
sour milk; occasionally put in a little soda or saleratus in each pail of water. 
I have only a cellar in which to keep our supply of milk (no ice) and I find this 
way very satisfactory. 

NEW IDEA WASHCLOTHS 

The nicest washcloths I ever used were made of six or eight thicknesses of 
white mosquito netting; white mercerized cotton can be quickly put around 
the edge with a crochet hook, button-hole stitch. 



A SEWING HINT 

When sewing, the index fijiger soon becomes roughened from the needle 
pricking through. To prevent this, use two thimbles, one on the left in- 
dex finger and the other in the usual way. What a comfort! No pricked 
finger, or little spots of blood to come through on some fine fabric I 



A COOKING HINT 

Turn the colander upside down over the fish or meat sauteing in an iron 
spider; the small holes allow the steam to escape and still prevent the grease from 
spattering. 



STAINED WALLS 

For removing stains from painted walls, a mixture of wheat bran and water 
is excellent; it should be allowed to stand till it becomes sour, then wet a cloth 
in the mixture and fasten it close to the stained part and let it cling there till 
dry; if the discoloration is still visible, a second application will be necessary. 



16 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO KEEP WOODEN TUBS 

One of the best methods of keeping wooden tubs in good condition when not 
in use, is to turn them upside down and pour water over the bottom. This 
is much more effective than the old way of covering the bottom with water on 
the inside. 

By adding to every tub of rinse water, one bucket of hard, or "well" water, 
you will find that clothes will "take the bluing" more readily, thus requiring 
little bluing and improving the appearance of the clothes. 



COCOANUT PIE 

Use the recipe for cornstarch pie (see p. 2) and add one-half of a ten-cent 
package of prepared cocoanut and you will have a very nice cocoanut pie. 



GENERALLY USEFUL HINTS 

Pieces of cloth or paper, dipped in turpentine, will keep moths and carpet 
bugs away. 

Tansy put among blankets is good to keep moths away. 

Chamois is very fine to mend corsets. 

Very cute little baskets can be made by cutting around large oranges, only 
leaving enough for handles, then scrape out the inside, filling with desserts made 
of tapioca, or anything you choose, and putting wihpped cream on top and 
two little pieces of jelly, or candied cherries. 

For floor wax, sliave a five-cent cake of beeswax fine and add one quart 
of gasoline; let stand over night and it will be ready for use; this is the best and 
cheapest wax ever used. Caution: Do not have a light in the room with the 
gasoline. 

Sift a little flour over cakes before icing and it will prevent the icing from 
running off the cake. 

Perhaps some of you do not know that you can skin rhubarb, then slice 
into glass cans, fill with cold water, and always have a supply of fresh rhubarb 
on hand. Seal the cans as for canned fruit and store away in your cold storage 
room. 

Vaseline stains are hard to remove; before washing, they should be soaked 
in kerosene. 

Try paraffine oil for furniture polish; it is fine. 

Black ribbon can be freshened by rinsing in hot coffee, or in alcohol; wrap 
it around a glass bottle to dry. 

"Smile a smile and while you smile, another smiles; 
And soon there's miles and miles of smiles; 
And life's worth while 
If you but smile." 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 17 

APPLE FUDGE 

When making chocolate fudge add two or three tablespoonfuls of juice 
from apple sauce. This makes a pleasant flavor. 



TO CORK GLUE OR CEMENT 

After a bottle of glue or cement has been opened, rub mutton tallow or cold 
cream on a sound cork before inserting it, and the cork will not stick fast and 
break when an attempt is made to draw it. Moreover, the glue will remain 
liquid. Glass stoppers should be treated in the same way. 



TO SOFTEN PUTTY 

The best way to remove the putty from a broken glass and window frame 
is to touch it with a brush dipped in nitric or muriatic acid. After an hour or 
so the putty will be soft and can be easily removed. 



A UNIQUE CISTERN 

Almost every house is fitted with eaves-troughs for the purpose of conducting 
the water to a convenient point, where it is either allowed to run to waste or run 
into a cistern, from which it must be pumped when wanted. Every house- 
keeper knows how infinitely superior is rain water to any other, for many purposes, 
especially for all sorts of cleansing. But how many of them know that, at a very 
slight expense, they may be able to draw rain water from a faucet in the house? 

First procure a suitable tank. I use a common gasoline tank. If you can 
get a larger one, or care to go to the expense of having one built, so much the 
better, but the gasohne tank holds 110 gallons and mine never has a chance to 
run dry. 

Place your tank on a frame, close to the house, as high as you can, and 
still be able to run the water into it from the eaves-troughs. Bore a hole through 
the wall where you wish to have the faucet; put the faucet on a short piece of 
pipe, run this through the hole, and with an elbow and another piece of pipe con- 
nect to the bottom of the tank, and the thing is done. 

It will be a good thing to prepare a strainer to run the water through as it 
runs into the tank. FiU the strainer with pebbles and charcoal. 



SPILLED MILK 

If milk, either sweet or sour,. is spilled on carpet, matting or clothes, do not 
use any water in cleaning them, but simply wipe the milk up with dry clean 
doths until it is all absorbed. This will leave the material perfectly free from 
any trace or stain of the milk. 



18 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

RECIPE FOR PASTILLE 

Pastille for killing flies, mosquitoes, and other insects. Mix one part benzoin, 
one part balsam of tolu, five parts charcoal, one and a half parts insect powder, 
and half part saltpetre. Add water to, knead into a stiff paste, then roll the 
mixture into pastilles and dry them. One of these pastilles will burn for some 
time, give a pleasant odor and the fumes will kill all insects in the room. 



COOKING IN THE FURNACE 

Just inside the furnace door I have a wide shelf. On this one can set a 
kettle and cook corned beef and pot roasts that require long cooking. Vege- 
tables can be cooked also, thus saving the kitchen range fire. 



BROWN POTATOES IN FIFTEEN MINUTES 

Half fill a fry-pan with lard or other grease and place over a good hot fire. 
Peel the potatoes, and if small put them in whole; otherwise, cut them in two, 
lengthwise. When you can stick a fork into them, they are done, and you can 
pour off the grease. This is a quick and satisfactory method of cooking potatoes. 
They do not absorb any of the grease and have a very superior flavor. 



A BELT THAT WILL STAY IN PLACE 

A belt shaped in the back is sure to keep in place. Put lining on cloth cross- 
wise and allow a slight flare at the bottom. 



TO PUT OUT AN OIL FIRE 

It ought to be more generally known that wheat flour is probably the best 
extinguisher of a fire caused by the spilUng and igniting of kerosene oil. 



FOR BEE STINGS 

When stung by a bee, bruise a plantain leaf and bind on, renewing two or 
three times if necessary to reduce inflammation. 



TO REMEDY A CURDLED CUSTARD 

Beat a pinch of soda into custard cooked a moment too long, and it will 
entirely change its consistency. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 19 

TO DROP MEDICINE 

Shake the bottle so as to moisten the cork. With the wet end of the cork 
moisten the edges of the mouth of the bottle, then, holding the cork under the 
mouth, let the fluid pass over the cork in dropping. 



NEW CAKE RECIPE 

To make an inexpensive white cake like angel food, beat the whites of three 
eggs, add one cup of sugar, one-half cup of boiling water, one cup of flour and one 
teaspoonful of baking powder. 



FOR THE SICK 

Mix equal parts of lemon juice and glycerine to moisten the lips of fever 
patients. Use cinnamon instead of mustard for plaster poultices. It retains 
the heat, but does not draw so hard. 



FOUR WAYS TO COOK CARROTS 

Bake as potatoes are baked; roast with meat; boil till tender, and then fry 
brown; boil until tender and cover with white sauce, and season with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

PUTTING AWAY SUMMER FINERY 

When putting away your summer finery, wrap all white silk in blue paper 
and enclose several cakes of white wax. The wax will turn yellow, but the 
gowns will retain their whiteness. 



TYPEWRITER SUGGESTION 

Clean your typewriter with benzine. It will remove rust and dirt that other 
things will fail to take off, and make the machine fairly " nm away." 



TABLE SYRUP 

Make your own table syrup: Dissolve four cups of granulated sugar in two 
cups of water, hot or cold, by stirring without cooking, (if syrup is not cooked, it 
will not grain) ; then add one teaspoonful of Crescent Mapleine, a vegetable pro- 
duct producing a maple flavor and color, or other flavors. This amount makes 
one quart of syrup, which you will find delicious and inexpensive. 



20 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

PANCAKE BATTER 

In making flour pancakes, add one or two slices of finely crumbed bread 
and see how much lighter and nicer they will be. 



CLEAR SPECTACLES 

If your spectacles "sweat" in summer or cloud in winter, coat the lenses 
very lightly with toilet soap. Wipe it off with a dry silk handkerchief or piece 
of tissue paper, rubbing until the glasses are once more clear and bright. This 
appUcation will not need to be renewed for several days. 



TOMATO CATSUP 

Cook thoroughly sound ripe tomatoes and rub through sieve to get rid of 
skins and seeds. Pour this pulp into a jelly bag, allowing it to drip until of the 
consistency of catsup, then return to kettle, season, bring to boiling point and 
bottle. You will have a delicious red catsup with the real tomato flavor, which 
is killed by hours of boiling down. 

If boiled up once, salted and put in air-tight jars, the juice which ran through 
the jelly bag is an excellent sauce for baked beans, macaroni and fish. 



INDIAN WASH FOR THE HAIR 

In my travels in Arizona I learned from the Moqui Indians the value of soap 
root as a hair wash. The women of that tribe have beautiful hair, but they keep 
is plaited and knotted in such a fashion that one hardly ever sees the full length 
or thickness of it. One morning one of the young girls had just washed her hair 
and had it covered carefully with a clean blanket, while it hung loosely down 
her back to dry, hanging two or three inches below the blanket, down to her 
heels, and we asked her to let us see it. I never saw such a growth of hair on any- 
one's head — so glossy, clean and beautiful that we asked her what she used as a 
wash for it. She told us to go and dig a handful of soap-root, and pound it well 
between two clean rocks. Take out all the black outside peel that covers the 
root, which comes off readily when bruised; then put the white inside part into 
a pail of clean tepid water and let it soak fifteen or twenty minutes or until you 
are ready to wash your hair. With your hands shake, rinse and squeeze this 
pounded root, and the water will froth as if using ordinary soap. Strain through 
a strainer to take out the fibers, and it is ready for use. Wash and rub the scalp 
as usual; then rinse in clean tepid water, and you will be surprised to find how 
clean, glossy and beautiful the hair will be. You never see dandruff where this 
method is followed. 

Soap root will wash all kinds of black goods most successfully, and cleans 
without the use of other soap. It grows almost everjrwhere in the Western 
states, but very few seem to know its real value. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 21 

TO SCALD MTT.K WITHOUT BURNING 

Before putting milk into a sauce-pan, boil rapidly a few spoonfuls of water 
(just enough to cover the bottom of the pan), and the milk will never bum, 
however fierce the fire. 



LACE CURTAINS 

After washing and boiling lace curtains, lay a blanket on the floor in some 
empty room, spread the curtains on this (stretching them carefully) and they 
will keep their place without any further fastening until dried. 



TO LINE ROUGH SHOES 

When boots and shoes are rough and uneven inside, cut some inner-soles 
from light-weight oilcloth to just a right fit; slide these into shoe, having the oil 
side next the shoe-sole. The warmth of the foot will cause these inner-soles 
to stick firmly to the leather and leaves a nice smooth surface next the foot. 



TO RELIEVE CHOKING 

Give the patient a raw egg to swallow. The white of the egg seems to catch 
around the obstacle and remove it. If one egg does not give rehef try another. 
The white is all that is necessary to use. 



TO REMOVE GRASS STAINS 
Apply alcohol to the spots, rub well, and the stains will disappear. 



MENDING LACE CURTAINS 

No matter how many or how large the holes may be in your lace curtains, 
here is an excellent way to repair them, either stretched on the frames or just 
before hanging them: Make a good cooked paste of flour and water; have your 
patches ready, taken from discarded lace curtains. The patches must be larger 
than the holes. Rub paste well into them, one at a time, fit smoothly over the 
holes, and put them in the sun to dry. When you hang your curtains you will be 
astonished at the effect. 



ONE-CRUST PIE 

In baking a shell for a one-crust pie, put it on the outside of the pie-pan and 
jt will not blister. 



22 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



TO TEST BLUING 

Many bluing compounds are composed of iron and Prussian blue, and con- 
tact with alkali in the soap in the clothes precipitates the iron, causing rust spots. 
Test the bluing by adding to a small portion a little soda, then heat it, and if it 
turns red and dark it contains Prussian blue; if, when a little nitric acid is used 
and the mixture heated, it turns yellow and then white, it is indigo. These 
simple tests are valuable, as they may prevent the ruin of a much-prized gown 
or fine table linen. 

TO STOP A LEAK 

To stop a leak, mix whiting and yellow soap into a thick paste with a little 
water; apply to the leak and it will be stopped at once, until a plumber's services 
can be secured. 

TESTING FLOUR 

There are several methods of testing flour, which should be known to every 
purchaser. If flour is white with a yellowish straw tinge, it is good, while if it 
has a bluish cast, or has black specks in it, it is inferior. 

Wet and knead a little of it between the fingers; if it works soft and sticky, it 
is poor; if elastic and firm, it is good. If a little flour is thrown against a dry 
smooth surface and it falls like powder, it is not of the best quality. If flour 
squeezed in the hand retains the shape given it when released, it is of good quality. 



MEMBRANOUS CROUP 

Mix two parts of pulverized alum and one of granulated sugar or thick syrup. 
Give one teaspoonful and repeat as often as necessary, according to the case. 
This preparation cuts the phlegm in the throat, a process which is the first move- 
ment toward curing the croup. This is reliable. 



PREVENTS CHILBLAINS 

A very simple and effective remedy for chilblains is common chalk. Try 
it and be convinced. Since prevention is better than cure, try putting on a 
fresh pair of stockings every afternoon — and be convinced again! 



CORNSTARCH AS MITTENS 

When doing your washing, before you go out in the cold to hang up your 
clothes, wipe your hands dry and rub them well with cornstarch. Your hands 
will not suffer with the cold. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 23 

GOOD USE FOR PAPER BAGS 

Canned tomatoes should be kept in the dark. Put each can into a bag 
(saved when they come from the grocer's). By doing this with all canned goods, 
and marking the contents on the bag, the mark is easily seen and the can kept 
free from dust. 



SAVE YOUR DRY LEMONS 

If you have some dry, hard lemons, do not throw them away. Put them 
in a pan of hot water, set it where the pan will maintain the same heat without 
boiling, and let lemons soak for two hours. When taken out and dried, they 
will be as soft and juicy as though they never had grown hard. 



TO TAKE OUT IRON RUST 

To take out iron rust, fill a dish with boiling water and put the spot of iron- 
rust over this, covering it with salt. Now drop on this enough hydrochloric 
acid to wet the salt, and drop the material at once in the hot water, when the 
spot will disappear. 

TO RESTORE ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS 

To freshen and restore faded and soiled artificial flowers, dissolve in gasoline 
enough tube oil paint of the desired color to give the right shade. Dip the flowers 
freely in this, shake out and let the gasoline evaporate. Straw and felt hats may 
be restored or colored in the same way. Beware of using the gasoline near a 
lamp or fire. 

VINEGAR IN DOUGHNUTS 

For doughnuts made with sour milk or cream, add a generous half-teaspoon- 
ful oi vinegar to the batter before adding the full amount of flour. 



PRUNE DESSERT 

Soak prunes over night. Boil slowly until very tender. Sweeten to taste. 
When they have cooled in their own liquor, pierce one side with a pointed knife, 
remove the stone and fill with chopped nuts and raisins, mixed. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

GRATED COCOANUT FOR BUTTER 

A cup of grated cocoanut or finely chopped nuts may be used instead of 
butter in making cake. 



24 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

CHICKEN OIL FOR CHICKEN SALAD 

In making chicken salad, use the oil that comes out of the chickens when 
boiled, instead of olive oil. This adds greatly to the flavor of the salad. 



FOR THE HAIR 

Put one tablespoonful each of salt, glycerine, borax and powdered sulphur 
into a quart can and fill with soft water; let stand one week, shaking the can at 
least once every day during the week. Add a few drops of bergamot or any 
other scent, after straining the above. 



TO KEEP MEAT FRESH 

To keep beef fresh in hot weather, put the meat (after removing bones) in 
an air-tight glass jar, and set where it is cool. It can be lowered into the well 
or cistern. I have kept steak in this way for a week through the hottest weather. 



TO KEEP EGGS 

Eggs may be kept almost indefinitely if turned often enough to prevent the 
yolk from sticking to the side. Instead of storing the eggs on a shelf, put them 
in a stocking hung to a nail and the whole stockingful may be turned as easily 
as one egg. 



TO TAKE CASTOR OIL 

Beat castor oil in three tablespoonfuls of boiling milk until cool enough 
to drink. Take a sip of hot milk after the dose, and there will be no disagreeable 
flavor. Salts may be given without the knowledge of patient by dissolving in 
strong, rather sweet, lemonade. 



FOR SPRAINS 

Place the sprained parts in a vessel filled with buttermilk for a period of 
thirty minutes, and repeat this three or four times a day. Within a week from 
the time I began using buttermilk the swelling was gone. 



ENAMEL PAINT TO MEND CHINA 

An easy and most satisfactory method of mending china and other broken 
articles is to apply enamel paint to the edges, press them firmly together for a 
moment and then set the article aside to dry for a day or two. The paint may 
also be used to cover scratches and broken places on the surface of china. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 25 

LITTLE TIME-SAVERS 

A small stiff-bristled scrubbing brush, such as can be bought for five cents, 
should be in every bath-room and kitchen, within easy reach. When you step in 
the mud with your best extension-soled shoes, hold the shoe under the faucet 
and, while the water is running slowly, brush briskly between the sole and uppers. 
It can be done so quickly that the shoe will not be injured in the least by the water, 
and after wiping dry with a soft rag and rubbing lightly with vaseline, they will 
be like new, and with a very few minutes' work. 

Another should be used to clean the grater after grating chocolate, potatoes, 
etc. A minute's work will remove every particle, and leave the grater clean 
and dry. 

TO FIND WAIST MEASURE 

To correctly find one's waist-measure so as to be able to put belt or girdle 
on shirt-waist, cut shirt-waist somewhat shorter than full-length pattern; make 
waist and then try on; tie a tape around waist, placing fullness in back, front 
and sides just as desired. Then take a lead pencil, mark the waist all around 
just below tape. Cut off even with marked line, after taking off waist. Put on 
belt, remembering to have measured distance from middle of back to under-arm 
seam, so as to know exactly where to let fullness be. This is an excellent idea, 
and of great benefit to home dressmakers. 



AID TO DIGESTION 

A few drops of essence of peppermint in a glass of hot water after meals is a 
great aid to digestion, and will gradually cure stomach troubles. It is a most 
harmless remedy to give to children who do not seem to assimilate their food. A 
few drops on sugar is the easiest way to give it to children — unless you can make 
the large white mint drops. 



TO RESTORE COLOR 

To bring back color when taken out by any acid, make a weak solution of 
baking soda and water and into this dip the article which is faded; the color 
will be restored. This is especially effective in shades of yellow. 



RESEATING CHAIRS 

Twelve years ago the "split" bottoms of our sitting-room chairs began to 
give out, and we rebottomed them with common binder twine. Left in the 
natural state, these would probably have worn out in two or three years at most, 
but they were immediately painted with a good coat of thick straw-colored paint 
which was allowed to dry thoroughly before using. Today these seats show 
practically no wear, though they have been constantly used. 



26 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

CURTAIN CLEANSING 

Clean from loose dust by brushing with a stiff brush. Then take a coarse 
linen towel, place in warm water until thoroughly wet, wring out and lay on iron- 
ing board. Lay the curtain on this and place a piece of fine cheese-cloth over it. 
Then proceed to iron with a very hot iron until dry. The cheese-cloth is used 
to prevent scorching of curtain. If this method is carefully followed, you will 
find that the curtain is not only clean, but that it has the same degree of stiffness 
as when new. 



KEEP KITCHEN STOVE NEAT 

As I use white enamel ware in my kitchen, I do not care to have the top 
of my coal range blacked. Once a month I black my range entirely. Between 
times I rub it off each morning with a block of wood (2x6x8) covered with 
sheep's wool, first rubbing into the wool one teaspoonf ul of lard and one teaspoon- 
ful of kerosene. Rub when the stove is medium warm, and rub rapidly, and 
you will be surprised how clean your stove will be. 



WASHING BLUE GOODS 

Before washing blue goods, soak two hours in a bucket of water in which 
an ounce of sugar of lead has been dissolved, and dry before washing. This 
will set the color permanently. 

TO REMOVE MILDEW 

Place article in a solution of about ten cents' worth chloride of lime to one 
gallon of water with one teaspoonf ul of soda added. Remove in a few minutes 
and wash in clear water. 



TO BLEACH HANDKERCHIEFS 

After washing, let them soak over night in water in which a bit of cream 
of tartar has been dissolved. 



FELT MATS 

Mats made from old felt hats are useful in protecting tables and shelves from 
hot dishes. 



TO KEEP A VEIL DAINTY 

Don't iron a veil that has become wrinkled. Roll smoothly on cardboard 
and steam over a kettle. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 27 

WHOLESOME PANCAKES 

When frying two or more pancakes on the griddle at one time, be careful 
not to allow one to touch another. If this precaution is observed, the cakes will 
be lighter and more wholesome. 

RELIEF FOR SORE JOINTS 

To take soreness from corns or enlarged toe joints wet a cloth with pure 
cider vinegar and bind on over night. 



SCRATCHED FURNITURE 

A scratch may be removed from hardwood furniture by rubbing with salt 
butter. 



WALL-POCKET FOR KETTLE-COVERS 

A great convenience for the kitchen is a wall-pocket made of wire netting, 
for holding pot-Uds and such hke. You can make it as long and as deep as you 
like — mine is one and a half yards long and one and a half feet deep. 



TO TAKE OUT COCOA STAINS 

I have tried many things to take out cocoa stains, and have found that to 
wet the stain with camphor before it is washed will take out the cocoa. 



INSTANT RELIEF FOR CRAMP 

For instant relief in case of cramps in limbs, dip hand in cold water and rub 
under the knee of cramped limb. 

NEW WAY TO WHIP CREAM 

Whip cream in a Mason jar by shaking it up and down for about five minutes. 
This saves much whipping in the ordinary way and also saves the cream, as not 
a drop escapes. 

NEAT SHOE-LACES 

If the tips come off the end of a shoe-lace, melt a little sealing wax or paraffine 
and dip the ends of the lace in it, rolling between the thumb and finger till it ia 
cold and shaped. It will be as good as new and last for some time. 



28 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO BANISH FLIES 

A little oil of lavender sprinkled about the room through a common atomizer 
will banish flies. 



TO CLEAN A CARPET SWEEPER 

Empty the accumulated dirt, place the sweeper on the floor bottom up and 
sweep the brush lengthwise with the broom. 



SUBSTITUTE FOR GREASE 

A turnip rind (the inside) rubbed on the griddle will answer for grease, and 
there is no smoke or odor, no sticking or any taste of the turnip. 



STARCH FOR WINDY WEATHER 

A spoonful of salt added to the starch on a windy day will prevent it from 
blowing out of the clothes. 

HOW TO CAN FRUIT 

A safe rule for canning fruit is to use one pound of sugar with four pounds 
of fruit, with enough water to keep from burning. The following table should 
be preserved for handy reference: — 

Time for Amount Sugar 

FRUIT Boiling to quart 

Min. Oz. 

Cherries 5 6 

Raspberries 6 4 

Blackberries 6 6 

Strawberries 8 8 

Plums 10 8 

Whortleberries 5 4 

Pie-plant, sUced 10 10 

Small sour pears, whole 30 8 

Bartlett pears, halves 20 6 

Peaches, halves 8 4 

Peaches, whole 15 4 

Pine apples, sUced 6 

Siberian or crab apples 25 8 

Sour apples, quartered 10 5 

Ripe currants 6 6 

Wild grapes 10 8 

Tomatoes 20 None 

Gooseberries 8 8 

Quinces, sUced 15 10 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 29 

BUTTONHOLES 

To work buttonholes in dresses of Sicilienne or similar materials, melt some 
paraffin and place a drop on the wrong side of the goods just where the button- 
hole is to be worked. Smooth it down with the finger and work the buttonhole 
as usual. When completed, place a piece of manila paper on the wrong side and 
press with a warm iron. The buttonhole will be perfectly smooth and all trace 
of the paraffin gone. 

DRESSES FOR GROWING GIRLS 

When making dresses for growing girls, or from goods that will shrink, run 
a tuck by hand or with a loose tension on the machine, on the right side of the 
goods very near the bottom. Turn up the hem and tuck will be on the wrong 
eide. When ready to lengthen take out the tuck and no stitches will show. 



CORN-MEAL CAKES 

To make corn-meal mush, or any fine-grained cereal, when fried, as pleasing 
to the sight as to the taste, pack it in well-greased pound baking-powder tins. 
When cold, turn out and cut into slices. These little rounds can be prettily 
piled on a dish at serving time. 



TO KEEP SANDWICHES FRESH 

Sandwiches prepared in advance of the serving time can be kept as fresh 
as when first spread by wrapping them in a napkin wrung out of hot water and 
then placing in a cool place. 

DRESS SHIELDS 

To make dress shields for thin waists, cut white flannel the size desired, trim 
edges with lace and use same as rubber shields. They will keep the waist dry 
and they look nicely. 

FOR BABY'S BIB 

Cut a dress shield in two pieces, bind the raw edges and tack under a baby's 
fancy bib. It will absorb the moisture and keep the little dress from getting 
damp. 

TO FRESHEN CANNED PEAS 

Canned peas are made fresh by pouring off old liquid, washing and adamg 
new water, butter and a bit of sugar. 



30 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SKIRT BRAID FOR PETTICOATS 

Sew narrow cotton tape on white petticoats as you would skirt braid on a 
dress. When frayed, it can be easily renewed. 



TO IRON BETWEEN BUTTONS 

When ironing between buttons on a shirt-waist, place the buttons down on 
a folded towel and iron on wrong side. The result will be very pleasing to both 
ironer and wearer. 



PERFUME BAGS 

A perfume bag to keep moths away is made as follows: One-half ounce 
each of cloves, nutmeg, caraway seeds, cinnamon and three ounces of orris root. 
Have these in fine powder and place in small bags. These bags placed amid 
clothing will impart a pleasant odor and will keep moths out. 



TO PREVENT MILK FROM SCORCHING 

When boiling for a pudding or soup, first grease the bottom of the vessel 
with butter. It will save all worry and trouble. 



TO KEEP CUT FLOWERS FRESH 

To preserve cut flowers and at the same time save changing the water, fill 
the vase two-thirds full of clean sand. Stick your roses or other flowers so they 
will remain just as you put them; then add water and see how much longer they 
will keep fresh. Sometimes the stems of roses and carnations will root in the sand. 



STOCKINGS 

New stockings wear much longer if washed before wearing. It tightens 
the threads, makmg them firmer. 



VALUE OF WHOLE CLOVES 

Sprinkled among furs and woolens, and under carpets and rugs, they will 
be found as effective, if not superior, to the ill-smelling moth preparations. And 
if the housekeeper who superintends the canning of her fruit will put a quarter- 
teaspoonful of whole cloves on top of the thin cloth which many wisely place 
over the hot fruit before putting on the lid, she will not be annoyed with the 
molding of her fruit. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 31 

SUGAR SYRUP 

For buckwheat and other griddle cakes many who prefer a home-made 
syrup of sugar have trouble with its granulating when it becomes cold. Try 
putting in it while cooking a spoonful of New Orleans or other molasses, and see 
if you do not have better results. 

DELICIOUS APPLE-SAUCE 

A spoonful or more of lemon juice or good vinegar added to apples that do 
not cook readily will hasten the process and improve the flavor. 



WATER IN CAKE 

Try using water instead of milk in making cake, and you will find it an in- 
expensive and very satisfactory substitute, especially in white cakes, as they 
are lighter in texture and color. 



TO SET AND KEEP COLORS 

Where green, blue, mauve, purple or purply-red is the dominant note, soak 
the things before washing for at least ten minutes in alum water, using an ounce 
of alum to a gallon of water. For browns, brown-reds and tans, use sugar-of- 
lead in the same proportion. Yellows, buffs and tans are made much brighter by 
adding a cupful of strong strained coffee to the rinsing water. 



TO CUT HOT BROWN BREAD 

Draw a clean, strong white thread sharply and firmly across the loaf, push- 
ing it down equally on either side. The result will be clean, smooth shces, free 
from the stickiness that comes from knife-cutting. 



TO KEEP ROSES FRESH 

Fill the vase or pitcher with ve^y^varm water, and as each rose is inserted 
cut off the tip of the stem with scissors, under the water, so that no air may reach 
the freshly-cut stem. Do this every morning, leaving the flowers to cool in the 
same water until the next day, when repeat the process. All hard-stemmed 
flowers can be kept fresh in the same way. 



FOR THE HANDS 

After handling onions or other malodorous things, wash the hands in mustard 
water. Nothing better. 



32 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SCORCHED LARD 

It frequently happens that in rendering lard a part of it is scorched, but it 
can be made as good as any by frying Irish potatoes in it. 

I was so unfortunate as to have a large quantity scorched one time, and 
saved it all by this method. As we often had fried potatoes for breakfast, I 
would fry them in a skillet full of the lard, then drain it into a bucket kept for 
the purpose, and when cold it would be white and free from the scorched odor 
and taste. 



CHEESE DREAMS 

Cut thin slices of bread at least one day old, spread with soft cheese and press 
into sandwiches; fry in butter. These "dreams" are favorites with college and 
boarding-school girls, as they can be cooked over an oil-stove. 



SIMPLE REMEDY FOR LOCKJAW 

Dr. J. G. Hatch, an old physician of over forty years' practice, recommends 
the following treatment for lockjaw, having tried it successfully both on him- 
self and on others. If a person is threatened or taken with lockjaw from injuries 
in the hands, feet, arms or legs, do not wait for a doctor, but put the part in- 
jured into the following preparation: — Put hot wood ashes into water as warm 
as can be borne; if the injured part cannot be put into the water, then wet thick 
folded cloths in the water and apply them to the part as soon as possible, at 
the same time bathing the backbone from the neck down with some powerful 
laxative stimulant — cayenne pepper and water, or mustard and water (good 
vinegar is better than water). It should be as hot as the patient can bear it. 
Don't hesitate; go to work and do it, and don't stop until the jaws relax and open. 
No person need die of lockjaw if these directions are followed. 



TO MEND ENAMELED WARE 

Mend leaky enameled ware with white lead. Cover the small holes with 
white lead on the outside of vessel; for larger holes cut a piece of white lawn or 
muslin a little larger than the hole, pull through on the inside of vessel, and 
apply the white lead on the outside. Place in the sun or near the stove to dry. 
Large mends require two or three days to dry, small ones three or four hours. 



BUTTONHOLES 

In finishing the bands of children's drawers, I work the two outer button- 
holes diagonally, first outlining the hole with a stitch on the sewing machine, 
before cutting with the scissors. Buttonholes done in this way are practically 
everlasting. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 33 

TO PRESERVE SHOE-SOLES 
The soles of shoes may be preserved by applying shellac. 



A HANDY GRATER 

A tin-can lid, medium size, driven full of holes with an awl or sharp-pointed 
nail makes a handy cuUnary tool for any use to which a larger«grater is put. 
It quickly removes any scorched crust from bread, cake or pie, and will be found 
helpful in many ways. 

TO KEEP MATTRESSES CLEAN 

To prevent a mattress from getting rent by springs, stretch ticking over 
the springs, hem both ends, sew rings on corners, run tape through and tie to 
springs. 



NEW METHODS OF WASHING 

Try this, and you will never wash any other way: Take a pound cake of 

i)araffine and cut into twenty pieces ; use one piece of the paraffine and one bar of 
aundry soap, cutting both up small, and two or three quarts of water. Boil till 
dissolved and add to the water in which you boil the clothes. Put your soiled 
clothes into cold water a few minutes and wring; rub soap on the soiled places, 
put in the boiler and boil twenty minutes; wring out and rinse in the usual way! 
They will be clean and white as snow, and no rubbing is required. 



STORM DOORS 

Your screen doors may be very easily transformed into as warm a protection 
from winter gales as any one need ask for. Fit pieces of building paper to each 
side of the screens and attach securely with cleats, using screws so that your 
door may be converted at will from "screen door" to "storm door," and vice 
versa, and there you are. This saves the work of taking off and putting on heavy 
doors, as well as the cost. 

NEW USE FOR A SCRUBBING-BRUSH 

The possibilities of a five-cent scrubbing-brush are unlimited. Having a 
dress of which only the bottom of the skirt was soiled, the thought came that 
with care it might be taken on a table, with plenty of space, and with good soap 
in the water, the hem scrubbed gently, then rinsed, wetting only the portion 
needed, having irons ready to press at once. Try it and be convinced. Any 
part of wearing apparel can be cleansed in the same way. 



34 LITTLE HELPS FOR HO ME-MAKERS 

TO CLEAN LAMP BURNERS 

If a lamp fails, to burn brightly or smokes, remove the burner, place it in 
vinegar and salt, and let it simmer over a slow fire. 



REMEDY FOR BURNS 

Cover a soft cloth with a thick layer of scraped raw potato (Irish) and apply 
to burned part, with potato next the skin. The potato should be renewed so 
as to keep moist. When other remedies failed, this reUeved a hand badly blistered 
by grasping a red-hot poker. 

CLEANING TRIMMING 

To clean white or light trimming on dark dresses: cover with cornmeal 
which has been saturated with gasoline. When the gasoUne evaporates, brush 
off the meal and the trimming will be clean. 



TO CLEAN ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS 

Cover with flour, let stand for several days, then shake out; if not entirely 
clean, repeat the process. 

A NEW USE FOR OLD STOCKINGS 

Have you ever thought of this use for your nice, warm, winter stocking tops, 
when the feet are too badly worn to admit of further darns? Make them into 
drawers for the Httle tots. For a small child one pair of stockings will make a 
pair of drawers, using an old garment as a pattern. For the older children up to 
eight years, it will take two pairs. Use black sateen or dress hning for the 
bands. For Httle girls' winter wear they are unequalled, saving washing and 
always neat. They are very little trouble to make, and you wiU be surprised 
at the wear you can still get out of your old stockings. 



COLD TEA PUNCH 

Among good old temperance drinks the following is a fine recipe, often 
tried. The tea which forms the body of this drink may be Ceylon or Oolong, 
carefully selected. For the flavoring, prepare early in the morning. Pom- 
one quart of cold water in a small saucepan; add the juice of two lemons, and 
three oranges, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of the rind of a lemon and 
orange. Let this come to the boiling point. Strain it into a pitcher, mix with 
the strong tea; let it cool, and serve cold in a punch-bowl with slices of orange 
and pineapple. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 35 

TO DRESS A DUCK 

Wring a woolen cloth out of boiling water, wrap the duck and lay aside 
for several minutes. The feathers and down may then be easily and quickly 
removed. 



THREADING A NEEDLE EASILY 
Char the end of cotton or silk thread to facilitate threading a fine needle. 



WHEN USING COLD STARCH 

When starching by the cold starching process, if the starch is mixed with 
(juite hot water instead of cold, it will not stick to iron, and garment can be 
ironed in one-half the time. 



SUBSTITUTE FOR APPLES 

If there is a, scarcity of apples when making mince-meat, use finely chopped 
green tomatoes instead, and when well-cooked none could detect them. 



RELIEF FOR SICK HEADACHE 

A towel or flannel wrung from hot water and applied to the back of the 
neck will relieve sick headache in a few minutes. 



A GUEST BOOK 

A guest book is an easily acquired addition to any home, no matter how 
humble. 

I have a pretty leather-covered book (a cheaper one would do) and in this 
record the names of all guests who stay over night. To have the names in their 
own chirography adds to the interest. We have been married but three years, 
and it does not seem as if we had very many guests, but when the names are all 
together they make a very entertaining hst. You will find more states and cities 
represented than you imagine. Some say anticipation is better than realization 
— but in this case you will find the pleasant memories which linger of the guests 
are the best of all. 



"SHORTENING" 

A good shortening for pies, cakes, etc., and much more economical and 
healthy than either butter or lard: — Take equal quantities of leaf lard and 
beef suet and render out together; put away and use as you would lard. 



36 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO WHITEN FLOORS 

A little bluing added to the rinse water when scrubbing will make the floors 
much whiter. 



FOR RELIEF OF EYES 
One drop of castor oil dropped in the eye will remove any foreign substance. 



FOR IN-GROWING TOENAILS 

Scrape the center of the nail from the end back toward the root. Or, 
when trimming the nails cut the end square; or cut a small notch in the center 
of the end. Nature will lose no time in remedying the disproportion of the nail 
by speedily growing to the center, thus drawing the nail away from the oppressed 
sides. Rehef will be obtained in forty-eight hours in the worst cases; and by 
always thinning the center of the nails a little when trimming them, they will 
never give trouble. 

CUTTING THIN CLOTH 

When cutting thin cloth which is slazy and pulls, lay in between two sheets 
of thin paper and cut out paper and all. This is a great help. 



HEAT LEMONS BEFORE SQUEEZING 

If you will heat your lemons well before squeezing, you will get almost double 
the quantity of juice. 

TO KEEP PEARLS BRILLIANT 

Keep in common dry magnesia instead of the cotton wool used in jewel 
cases, and they will never lose their brilliancy. 



ENGLISH WALNUT GRAHAM BREAD 

Add a cupful of chopped English walnuts to your sponge for graham bread 
and you will find it more nutritious and deUcious. 



OLD BLACK HOSIERY 

When black hosiery is worn out, save the tops to clean black goods or to 
wipe off furniture. They leave no lint. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 37 

NEW WAY TO BAKE POTATOES 

Wash and dry large-sized potatoes. Place them in a spider or skillet, 
cover closely with a pan, and dry on top of stove. They will bake much quicker 
and with less fire than in the oven, and will be mealy and plump, not dried and 
shrunken. I have often placed potatoes on an asbestos mat on top of the stove, 
covering closely with a basin and they bake equally as well. 



FOR TIRED NERVES 

If overworked home-makers whose nerves are " worn to frazzle edge " would 
acquire the habit of sitting or lying absolutely still, relaxed and motionless, for 
five or ten minutes twice a day, they would soon see improvement. The mind 
must be relaxed, worries dropped, thoughts wandering to pleasant things. You 
will probably try this several times before you get it right, but after a Uttle 
practice you will find that it yields large returns, far surpassing the sacrifice of 
the time it takes. Try it, nervous ones. 



FOR STRAINS AND BRUISES 

After having done an unusually hard day's work or undergone some un- 
accustomed strain such as is likely to leave the muscles sore and stiff, mix fifteen 
drops of the tincture of arnica thoroughly in one-half glass of water and take 
one teaspoonful of the mixture every hour until relieved. This will give much 
quicker relief than when applied externally. It is also one of the best remedies 
to promote absorption, remove soreness and prevent inflammation in any wound 
or bruise of the soft parts of the body. 



HOT WATER FOR A COUGH 

For a tight, hoarse cough where phlegm is raised with difficulty, take hot 
water often, as hot as can be sipped. This will be found to give immediate 
and permanent relief. 

TO RELIEVE ASTHMA 

Wet blotting paper in strong solution of saltpeter, dry it and burn a piece 
three inches square on a plate in the sleeping room. It will afford quick relief. 



TO STARCH THIN WAISTS 

Thin muslin waists will take starch much better if dried first and then 
dipped in boiled starch and dried again. 



38 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

EASY WAY TO SPRINKLE CLOTHES 

Remove the cover from a quart can, perforate the bottom, fill with water 
and replace the cover; you have a very good sprinkler. 



TO KEEP CHEESE FROM MOULDING 

To keep cheese for some time without becoming mouldy, wrap in cloth 
dipped in vinegar and keep in covered dish. 



SOUR PICKLES 

A very easy way to make sour pickles for the winter is as follows: Fill 
quart fruit jars with small cucumbers, mixing in a little horseradish root or leaves. 
Place a heaping teaspoonful salt on top and fill the can with boiling vinegar. 
Seal immediately. These pickles keep indefinitely and are as nice as those made 
with twice the work. They also have that "crumpy" quality so much desired. 



TURNING A HEM 

If you have a ruffle to hem, the hem may be measured in a tenth part of 
the time usually required as follows: After the breadths of ruffling are cut off, 
before sewing them together, lay flat on work-table and measure at each lower 
edge the width of required hem, allowing for the portion turned under. Then, 
by the use of a yardstick, mark across the goods with chalk or tracing-wheel, 
and your hem is all measured, ready to turn. 



WINTER PIES 

In cold weather one may save much time by making a quantity of apple 
or mince pies at a time. Put them in some cupboard outside, where they will 
freeze and remain frozen until wanted. The day you wish a pie for dinner, 
bring in one in the morning, thaw out, and bake. Pies kept in this way will be 
as good as if just made. 

TO MAKE TURKISH DELIGHT 

One ounce Knox's gelatine dissolved in one-half cup of water, grated rind 
and juice of one lemon and one orange, one-half cup of cold water added to two 
cups of granulated sugar. When dissolved, mix aU together and boil twenty 
minutes. Pour in a shallow vessel and let stand twenty-four hours; then cut 
in squares, rolling each in pulverized sugar. By using rose water you get the 
Turkish flavor. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 39 

RELIEF FOR SICK STOMACH 

A very simple home remedy for nausea is cinnamon tea. Place a teaspoon 
of ground cinnamon in teacup, and pour over it a half cup of boiling water. 
As soon as the mixture settles, it is ready for use. This settles the stomach 
in a remarkably short time. 



MAKING A WASH DRESS 

In making a wash dress, if you would avoid the unsightly sag which will 
invariably come in the back of the skirt after a few days' wear, do not gore the 
back breadths. A five or seven gored skirt model cuts to good advantage in 
this way. Gore the front and side breadths according to the pattern, and set in 
straight back breadths, and see how well your skirt will hang until worn-out. 



FOR THE HOME DRESSMAKER 

K you are a home dressmaker keep a quantity of sharp black pins on hand 
to use in pinning patterns on, etc. Their large heads render them very easily 
picked up, while the points, being so very sharp, are easily pricked through 
the material, and do not draw the goods as common pins frequently do. A 
quantity of these can be purchased for five cents at any department store. 



ECONOMY IN MAKING BED LINEN 

Sheets are better hemmed with the same width hem at each end. They 
can then be used either end for the head and will wear more evenly. 

If, when making pillow-cases, you make them an inch or so longer than 
usual, it will allow of cutting off and hemming again when they wear out at the 
corners and the other parts are still good. 



AN HYGIENIC KITCHEN TABLE 

Cover an ordinary kitchen table with a piece of sheet zinc, lapping carefully 
over the edges and tacking neatly on the under side. Easily kept clean, absorbs 
no grease, always ready to set hot things on. If once tried, the only wonder is 
how you ever kept house without it. 



RED ANTS 

To drive away red ants, take liquid corrosive sublimate, pour it on little 
pieces of cotton batting, lay it where the ants travel, and they will leave instantly. 
The odor of corrosive sublimate lasts but a short time. 



40 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

ANT EXTERMINATOR 

I was troubled last summer with little red ants in my house. Having 
dissolved two pounds of alum in three quarts of boiling water, I applied with 
a brush while hot to every crack and crevice where the ants were in the habit 
of staying. 

To get rid of the larger species, lay about fresh-picked tansy leaves. 



SAVE SOAP SCRAPS 

Do not throw away bits of toilet soap. Keep a jar to put them in. Make 
bags of fine cheese cloth four by six inches, fill with bran, a few bits of soap, and 
a pinch or two of orris if you have it. Tie the bags at the top; do not fill them 
full, as the bran swells in the water. Oatmeal may be used instead of bran. 
These bags make the nicest kinds of washrags. Another use for bits of soap is 
to put them into an empty jar and pour in alcohol or cologne, not quite enough 
to cover the soap. This will make a jelly which will be found useful in sham- 
pooing, or in the bath, as it dissolves quickly in the water. Add a few drops of 
lavender or rose to the alcohol and soap just brfore using. 



ABOUT EGGS 

When using an egg which has been frozen, break it into the mixing dish 
and place on the stove until slightly warm; beat briskly, and the yolk will be 
smooth instead of forming in small curdles. 

If you use the whites of the eggs only for a dish, do not remove the yolks 
from the shells, and they will not form a crust on top. 



SUGARING DOUGHNUTS 

Put pulverized sugar in a paper bag with new doughnuts, give a little shake, 
and the work is done, with nothing to clean up. 



GINGER IN SAUSAGES 

If when making sausages you add a small amoimt of ginger, it will prevent 
the formation of gas in the stomach. 



TO RELIEVE THE COW 

Put nine drops of liquid extract of ergot in half a glass of warm water, a,nd 
with this bathe the cow's udder thoroughly five or six times a day. The sweUing 
will soon go down. It works hke magic when the udder is badly caked. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 41 

COAL ASHES FOR CLEANSING 

Some of the uses I have found for coal ashes are these: — For china dishes 
that have been discolored, rub well with a damp cloth dipped in powdered ashes 
and they will look new. For cleansing brass faucets, etc., it will give a 
more lasting and better polish than the preparations which one buys, and is 
also excellent for cleaning and polishing steel knives. The ashes should be 
sifted through gauze or musUn to remove grit. 



LINIMENT FOR CROUP 

To make a liniment for croup, fill a half-pint bottle one-third full of sweet 
oil, one-third of ammonia, one-third of turpentine; shake well. Bathe the throat, 
breast and bottoms of the feet. I have often cured my little ones with this alone. 



BLANKET COVERS 

Worn all-wool blankets make splendid covers if darned carefully and patched 
where necessary. Then cover with Ught or medium weight outing cloth and tie 
with wool. 



TO PREVENT LOCKJAW 

As soon as a wound is inflicted get a light stick (a foot-rule or knife handle 
will do; I have used a flat celluloid paper cutter) and commence to tap gently 
on the wound. If it is a punctured wound (such as running a nail in the foot) 
do not stop for the hurt, but continue tapping until it bleeds freely, and be- 
comes quite numb. When this point is reached, you are safe. Do not on any 
account close the wound with a plaster. Protect from dirt by covering with a 
clean cloth — that is all that is necessary. I have tried this remedy for rusty 
nail in foot, puncture from hay-fork tine in leg, and for many other wounds 
of like nature, and never knew a single instance where the wound became sore 
or inflamed. For a hard bump on the head, where the above method could not 
be administered, I have prevented all soreness by vigorously rubbing with the 
hand for a few minutes. 



SALTPETER PAPER 

Five cents' worth of saltpeter and one pint of water; put in a flat tin and heat 
until dissolved. A package of best toilet paper must then be soaked, about six 
sheets together. Take up and twist, but do not wring out, and lay to dry. When 
dry it is stiff and coated. If anyone suffering with cold in the head or asthma 
will burn one of these candles in an old tin with a little earth in the bottom, 
upon retiring at night, with bedroom door and windows closed, they will be 
greatly relieved. 



42 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



NEW WAY TO SCALE FISH 

Use a currycomb when scaling a fish. It is easier to handle than a knife, 
and prevents the hands from smelling fishy and the scales from working under 
the nails. 



TO CUT HOT BROWN BREAD 

Take a piece of cornmon wrapping cord or thin wire and put around the loaf 
where you want to cut it. Cross and draw through. You will never use a knife 
again. 

TO WHIP CREAM 

When cream is rather thin to whip, add the white of an egg to each pint 
of cream; the whipping can be accomplished much more easily, and the fllavor 
of the cream will not be changed in the least. 



QUASSIA CHIPS FOR INSECTS 

Buy quassia chips from any drug store; boil them for twenty minutes. 
This tea will keep the lady-bug, cutworms and other insect life from destroying 
young cucumber plants. 



ROOTING SLIPS 

In rooting geraniums and other soft-wooded plants, it is best to take a box 
that can be easily lifted around. Have one side three inches higher than the 
other; after putting in good sharp sand, fill it with shps and tack a piece of white 
musHn over the top, leaving it so that the cover can be laid back while wetting 
the slips, for they must never be allowed to get very dry. Set where the sun 
will shine on the box at least half of the day, and if you are as successful as you 
should be, ninety per cent, will grow. The muslin allows the air to reach the 
slips, and is far better for the amateur than glass. 



TREATMENT OF PIMPLES 

After bathing the face with soap and water nightly, a five-minute application 
of hot towels, followed with cold the same length of time, will prove excellent for 
the pustule condition, keeping it from spreading over the face. Ether rubbed 
over the complexion at night and washed off with green soap in warm water 
in the morning, is very beneficial. The following lotion, used by a specialist, is 
excellent. Shake and rub over affected parts. 

Lotion: — Sulphur precip., one dram; acid salicylic, one-half dram; alco- 
hol, two drams. Add enough rose water to make three ounces. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 43 



FOR FROSTED LIMBS 

Procure a five-cent bottle of vaseline and have druggist mix five cents' 
worth of " oil of mustard " with same. Place between cloths and apply to afflicted 
parts. This will not blister and has been well tested and found to be invaluable 
m drawing out cold. 



TO WASH FEATHER PILLOWS 

Choose a bright, windy day; fill the washtub with hot suds, and plunge 
the pillows (with feathers) in them. Put them tlirough several waters, shaking 
them about briskly, then hang on the fine in the open air. When perfectly dry, 
shake well. They will be light, fresh and sweet. After they have been washed 
in this way, they should be hung out in the warm fresh air every day for a week, 
but they must never be put directly in the hot sun. 

KIDNEY SUET FOR LARD 

Instead of buying so much lard, get kidney suet; fry out slowly, and add a 
pinch of salt and one of sugar to each five cents' worth of the suet. The result 
is much superior to lard, and you are sure it is clean and pure. 



CURE FOR CORNS 

Take equal parts of wheat flour and pure lard ; mix thoroughly, and bind on 
corn at night. Three or four applications may be necessary, but one night's 
treatment will draw the soreness out. 



TO REMOVE IODINE STAIN 

To remove iodine stain quickly from white goods, rub with liquid ammonia 
as long as any spot remains, then rinse in clear water. 



A NEW SPADING FORK 

If you have a little garden and wish to work in it yourself, just order from 
your hardware man a flat-tined potato fork, and use it instead of the spade or 
shovel, and see how much easier your task becomes, especially if the ground be 
gravelly. I had just moved here and was struggling to make an impression 
on the hard ground to set out our roses and violets, when one of our neighbors 
called over the back fence and wanted to know if I didn't want to borrow her 
fork. I tried it and decided to pass the good news along to other women, and 
to the men, too. 



44 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SAVE YOUR APPLE PARINGS 

Dry your apple parings, as they will be found good for making jellies, sauces 
and syrups. 

STORING FURS 

Take an empty kerosene barrel and put in a few newspapers on bottom 
and sides; then put in your goods, and head the barrel on tight, putting in an out- 
of-the-way place. The furs will be safe from moths for any length of time. 
When removing them from the barrel, hang in the open air for a few hours, and 
you wUl find them as good as new and no odor of kerosene will remain. 



SURE CURE FOR CANKER-SORES 

Canker-sores when they first appear in the mouth can be readily cured by 
applying red vaseline. Anoint the sores just before retiring at night, and once 
or twice during the day. Sometimes a single application will be enough. The 
writer knows of no better, milder remedy for these painful sores. 



OLD-TIME REMEDY FOR DYSPEPSIA 

One ounce bicarbonate of soda, one oimce of powdered rhubarb, one ounce 
of aromatic spirits of ammonia, eighteen tablespoorrfuls of water. This is bottled 
together, and a dessert spoonful taken after each meal. Is splendid for all 
suffering from dyspepsia. 

TO PREVENT "BOILING OVER" 

When cooking anything that is apt to rise and boil over, like rice, peas, 
beans, etc., if a small piece of butter is put in, it will prevent boiling over and is no 
detriment to the thing being cooked. This is one of the very best helps I have 
foimd. 



TO PREVENT BED-SORES 

Add alum to alcohol used for bathing people who are obliged to be in bed 
constantly; it toughens the skin and prevents bed-sores. 



BUTTER THE DISH 

Rub with butter any baking dish in which you expect to cook milk, such as 
macaroni and cheese, and the food will not stick to the dish, which will be more 
easily washed. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 45 

BAKED PORK CHOPS 

Pork chops will be much more tender if, after being prepared as for frying, 
they are baked in the stove oven. 

IRONING SHADOW EMBROIDERY 

To make shadow embroidery stand out well, lay it right side down on a 
Turkish towel when ironing. You will be dehghted with the result. 



WHEN GLUE GETS DRY 

When glue gets too dry and hard to use, pour in a little vinegar, and in a 
day or two it will be as good as new. This can be done over and over as it dries. 



PEELING RIPE TOMATOES 

Instead of pouring boiling water on ripe tomatoes to loosen the skin, rub 
over them the back of the paring knife. The skin will then peel off easily. 

The skin can be loosened on ripe peaches by pouring on boiling water for a 
few minutes. This makes less waste of fruit than the ordinary paring. 



TO FRY PORK CHOPS 

Try dipping pork chops and pork tenderloins in flour before frying them, 
and see how delicious they are. 

TO COOK CABBAGE 
A crust of stale bread boiled with cabbage will absorb the disagreeable odor. 



FOR TONSILITIS 

Dampen the end of yom* finger and dip it into common baking soda, and 
touch each tonsil; repeat this treatment every hour until the soreness is en- 
tirely gone. You will find this a sure cure, however severe the case may be 



TREATMENT FOR AN OLD FLOOR 

For filling up cracks in an old floor which you intend to paint, there is 
nothing better than kalsomine mixed to a paste. It will soon harden and may 
then be smoothed off with sandpaper and painted v 'Ver. 



46 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



A COUGH CURE 

To one pint of New Orleans molasses add one teaspoonful of pine tar. Sim- 
mer together till well mixed, then add one small teacup of good cider vinegar 
and one-half teaspoonful of ipecac. Cook slowly till a good syrup is formed, 
but not too thick to run well from a bottle. We have used this recipe for over 
twenty years in our home, and can recommend it. 



SEALING FRUIT JARS 

When canning fruit, if you dip the rubber in the juice of the fruit just before 
putting on the jar the seaUng process will be more effectual. 



CREASELESS DOILIES 

To prevent doilies and all fancy linens from creasing and mussing when 
laid away, roll up in a partly stiff paper, and they will keep their shape as though 
freshly laundered. 

ANTIDOTE FOR KEROSENE 

If a child should drink kerosene, give it a large spoonful of castor oil with 
two spoonsful of cream. 

TRANSPLANTING SMALL TREES 

A small tree or any shrub may be successfully transplanted at any season 
or at any stage of growth in the following way. Dig a trench entirely around 
the tree, a foot or more in width and a little deeper, leaving the roots imbedded 
in a ball of earth. Fill the trench with wet cement, and leave undisturbed till 
it hardens. The tree may then be lifted and removed at pleasure. After placing 
it where it is to stand, break and remove the cement and inamediately fill the 
space with earth. 

FOUR SUGGESTIONS 

The very best way to remove the odor from pans in which fish, onions, etc., 
have been cooked, is to put into the dish left-over coffee grounds. All odor 
almost instantly disappears. 

Keep an old comb to clean the carpet sweeper with and you will save your 
hands as well as time. 

Tough meat may be made tender by putting a little soda in the water 
in which it is boiled. 

Always flour suet before chopping, as this keeps the particles from sticking 
together. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 47 

TO CLEAN WHITE PAINT 

The best way to clean white paint is to dip a piece of soft flannel cloth in 
warm water, wring it out, then dip it in clean bran, using this to rub the paint. 
The friction of the bran will remove the stains without injuring the paint. 



CURE FOR JAUNDICE 

Barberry root or bark is a sure cure for jaundice. Steep well and extract 
all the goodness possible. Drink freely of this bitter liquid. Many years ago 
this cured the writer's mother of the severest attack, and of recent years, a lady 
residing in Lowell, Mass. 

HOW TO MEND GLOVES 

I prolong the usefulness of my black silk gloves by turning them wrong 
side out when I first buy them, and strengthening the ends of the fingers with 
black court plaster; when a place wears thin anywhere, I also put the plaster 
on the wrong side. The same might be done with white gloves, using white 
court plaster. 

A SUBSTITUTE FOR SCOURING SOAP 

When entirely out of scouring soap, I have found that common baking soda 
sprinkled on a cloth is very efficient in cleaning marble basins and bath tubs. 



TO REMOVE GREASE SPOTS WITH TALCUM POWDER 

Sprinkle the spots thickly with talcum powder, let stand over night, and in 
the morning when the powder is brushed off the grease will have disappeared also. 



TO KEEP LARD FRESH 

To keep lard fresh for several months, stir in about a tablespoonful of honey 
to every six or eight gallons of lard, after removing the scraps. 



OILCLOTH ON TABLE MAT 

I have covered the silence cloth with white oilcloth and bound the two 
edges together with white tape. This saves washing the cloth and keeps it in 
its original state, and also saves the polish of the dining-table, which is often 
harmed by the spilling of hot dishes. A great convenience in this arrangement 
is that the tablecloth can be shpped on without sticking to the padding beneath. 



48 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

HANDY WHILE SEWING 

It will be found convenient and many steps will be saved if a common magnet 
is attached to a four-foot string or thread, so that when you drop a needle or 
scissors you need not get up to get it, but can easily pick it up with the magnet. 



SEA AND CAR SICKNESS 

Sea sickness and also car sickness can be avoided by the liberal eating of 
well-salted popcorn. This has been tried many times, with success, and is a 
very simple remedy. 

TO KILL COOKING SMELLS 

To kill cooking smells, throw a few whortleberries on the stove and notice 
the fine aroma it creates. You will never use anything else, once tried. 



AN EXCELLENT TONIC 

Watercress contains much sulphur, and is an excellent tonic for complexion 
and hair. Eat it raw or as a salad dressing. 



TO RELIEVE BURNS 

Make a salve of powdered alum and water and bind on the burn; the pain 
will immediately cease. 

WHEN MAKING FRUIT PIES 

In making fruit pies, brush the lower crust with unbeaten white of egg to 
prevent the juice from soaking through. 



CANNED TOMATOES 

Melted butter poured on the top of canned tomatoes just before sealing 
will keep them sweet. 

TO BAKE POTATOES IN A HURRY 

To bake potatoes in a hurry, pour warm water over them before placing 
them in the oven, where they should be an inch or two apart. They will bake 
much quicker than if put in in the usual way. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 49 

FOR WASHING SOILED LINEN 

For washing any soiled linen, more especially such as one does not wish to 
handle, a great improvement on the old "pounder" can be made as follows: Take 
a piece of pine plank two inches thick; make a round block three inches in 
diameter; bore a hole in the center to receive the end of a piece of broom-handle 
two or three feet long as desired (depending on whether a tub is to be used on 
the floor or on a bench) . Now take a tin basin six or seven inches in diameter and 
two inches deep and nail securely to the block, bottom to bottom. In using, 
press firmly down on the clothes and then lift each time entirely out of the 
water. The suction produced by the basin in being lifted draws the water through 
the clothes and washes them. 



MOVING MATTRESSES 

In cleaning chambers moving the cumbersome mattresses is the hardest 
task. It is not because of their great weight, although they are heavy, but on 
account of the difficulty in getting hold of the unwieldy things. Just try roping 
them with a clothes-line and see how it simplifies matters. Put the rope around, 
book-strap fashion, knotting in such a way that you have rope handles to get 
hold of and then see how easily the mattresses can be moved. 



FROZEN WINDOWS 

To prevent windows from freezing at the bottom, spread a thin layer of salt 
on the sill beneath the sash, adding more salt when needed. 



LEAKY HOT WATER BOTTLES 

Hot water bottles that leak and are past mending may be filled with hot 
sand and this will retain the heat as well as the water would. The sand can 
be bought for a small sum at any grocery store, and after heating in the oven 
can be poured into the bottle with a tunnel. 



TO PREVENT SYRUP FROM THICKENING 

Sjoiip for table use made of sugar and water often "sugars" or thickens, 
after standing. This can be prevented by putting a piece of alum the size of a 
pea into the syrup while it is boiUng. 



MAKES CHICKEN TENDER 
When boiling chicken, cook a fig with it and it will make it tender. 



50 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

CAMPHOR GUM IN CUPBOARDS 

Camphor gum laid upon the shelves will keep ants and mice out of cup- 
boards. 

TWINE HOLDERS 

Save all your pieces of bright-colored twine and knit garter stitch. Knit it 
long enough to fold over. White may be used underneath. If the holder is to 
be used for ironing, put in an inside hning. This makes a good pastime for old 
ladies. My grandmother saves every piece of pretty twine, and knits these 
holders by the hour. 



SURE TEST FOR BOILED ICING 

aw from a broom, tie a 

ting forms over this Ic 

_„^ , ^rup is just right._ On 

always complimented on her boiled icing. 



Take a clean straw from a broom, tie a loop in the end and dip in the boiling 
syrup. When a coating forms over this loop and you can blow it into a good- 
sized bubble, the syrup is just right. One who has practiced this for years is 



MOTHER'S SUET PUDDING 

One cup finely-chopped suet, one cup water (cold), one cup raisins (seeded), 
one cup figs (cut up), one cup New Orleans molasses, one teaspoonful soda, one 
teaspoonful salt, two and one-half cups flour. Steam three hours. Use any 
good pudding sauce. I consider this an uncommon recipe, on account of not 
having either sugar, butter, milk or eggs among its ingredients, and one trial 
is convincing proof of its excellence. It is equally good warmed over by cutting 
in sUces and steaming twenty minutes. Will keep in cool place for a week or ten 
days. 

TO HULL WALNUTS 

Take a piece of oak plank one inch thick and in the center bore a hole 
with an auger the size of a walnut with the hull off. Place board across top of 
box or barrel, put nut side downward on hole, and with a hammer drive it through. 
If the hole is the right size there will only a small piece of husk left on the nut 
which will do no harm if the nuts are left out in the sun and thoroughly dried. 



STRETCHING NEW SHOES 

It is not always convenient to get to a shoe store when you have a tight 
shoe that needs stretching. Put on the shoe and take a cloth wrung from quite 
warm water, and wrap it around the shoe over the foot. It will give the needed 
room and will not injure the leather. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 51 

TO CUT WHALEBONE 
To cut whalebone, warm by the fire, when it will cut easily. 



EATING ONIONS 

If you enjoy eating onions, afterward munch a sprig of parsley dipped in 
vinegar. 



FRYING MUSH 

Before pouring mush into vessel to cool for frying, wet vessel in cold water 
mush will turn out without sticking. 

WHEN GREASE IS SPILLED 

If grease is spilled on the stove, sprinkle it with dry salt, and all odor is 
avoided. 



MOSQUITO-PROOF CHAIR 

To protect chair-bound invalids living in warm climates from flies and 
mosquitoes: Suspend the top of an umbrella or parasol from a hook in ceiling, 
sawing off the handle just below the catch which holds up the frame. Get about 
fom- yards of mosquito-netting, sew the edges together with the exception of 
an opening at front, gather at top of parasol and leave hanging to floor around 
the patient's chair. 

TO ALLAY FEVER THIRST 

In cases of fever moisten the tongue frequently with glycerine, and thirst 
will be greatly decreased. 



MEALY POTATOES 

To make old and poor potatoes delightfully mealy and nice, the moment 
water has been drained from them after boiling, take kettle to the open air and 
shake gently; must be done very quickly. 



POTATOES A SUBSTITUTE FOR MILK 

A couple of cold boiled potatoes mashed fine make an excellent substitute 
for milk when making baking-powder biscuit, making them moist and very 
light. 



52 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO TREAT SPRAINS 

When a wrist or ankle is sprained, take the white of an egg and thicken it 
with common table salt. Spread it on a strong cloth and bind it firmly around 
the sprained member. It will almost immediately harden until it forms a cast 
around the injured part. Let it remain between twenty-four and thirty-six 
hours according to the severity of the sprain. Remove, and the sprain will be 
entirely cured. A music-teacher received a severe sprain in her wrist two days 
before a concert in which she was engaged to play. She tried this remedy and 
was able to fill her engagement. 

OILCLOTH APRONS 
Make oilcloth aprons with bibs for washing, and keep your clothes dry. 



SAND WICH» BREAD 

To make a round loaf of bread for sandwiches, bake in tin can after having 
melted off the rim. 



TO CLEAN STRAW HATS 

To clean old or soiled straw hats, rub with a mixture of three parts benzine 
to one part of magnesia. 

THE SALT BATH 

Bathing in salt water is so refreshing, so invigorating, so health-inspiring 
to the cuticle and to the whole system. It leaves the pores in a healthy operating 
condition. The most economical and safest way is the sponge bath; and per- 
haps the best sponge is a good coarse cloth of the right size. Make your wash- 
bowl of warm water salty Uke sea-water. Commencing with the head, saturate 
your whole body freely with your sponge or cloth. Take time enough, and use 
plenty of good soap. Wipe dry with a coarse towel. Do all this yourself. Do 
not let anyone do it for you if you are able to stand up. 

Take this bath at least once a week or oftener. It helps the whole system, 
even to regulating the bowels and kidneys in their action. It is good for the eyes, 
the nose, the ears, the hair. It relieves all cutaneous affections and is better 
than medicine. 



FOR DANDRUFF 

Wash the head, each morning, in cold water. You won't catch cold in the 
head, if you are careful to dry the hair thoroughly before goin^ outside. Indeed, 
this treatment, if persisted in, will go a long way toward curmg catarrh. It is 
ft "sure shot" for dandruff. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 53 

TO FRY SMOKED HAM 

Fry in the ordinary way till half done. Then turn grease out of frying-pan 
into another dish. Put meat back over fire, have ready boiling water and 
cover meat quickly with it, in the frying-pan, allowing it to stand for a minute or 
two. Turn off water, replace grease, and continue frying till done. The meat 
will be delightfully soft and nice. 

TO CLEAN PAINT BRUSHES 

Make a good soap-suds with boiling hot water, then dissolve sal-soda in the 
water until quite strong. Work the brush in this, changing the mixture if it 
becomes too thick with paint, always using enough sal-soda, and see if your 
brush will not be soft and clean, unless it has been used so much that it is a 
hopeless case. 

NATURAL CURE FOR CONSTIPATION 

Each night, just before retiring, practice bending exercise, backward and 
forward, and from side to side; also come to a full squat and rise again, from 
ten to twenty times. In the morning drink a cup of warm water, in which 
has been mixed the juice of half a lemon and a pinch of salt. This remedy ia 
especially good for a "lazy liver." 

BACKACHE 

If you are troubled with pains in the back, try heating a bag of salt in the 
oven, and taking it to bed with you. Salt heated in this way will retain its 
warmth for hours. Besides, it has a curative property in itself, which acts 
upon the kidneys. 

FILLING A FOUNTAIN PEN 

Next time you fill your fountain pen, after you have filled the barrel and 
have the tip partly screwed on, turn the pen point down over a piece of blotting 
paper and finish screwing on the tip in this position. This wiU force out any air 
bubbles and the pen will not blot. 

TO MEND BROKEN CHINA 

Bind the broken pieces together with twine, and boil in milk for thirty 
minutes or more. 



FOR INSOMNIA 
For insomnia, take a cup of hot milk before retiring. 



54 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

OVEN COOKING 

For next year's canning remember to salt tomatoes and prevent popping, 
also that apple butter made in the oven requires little stirring. In canning 
berries I place a pan in the oven to cook while the top of the stove is filled. Fry 
meat or sausage, also heat dish water in the oven when stove is crowded. 



PRACTICAL JELLY-MAKING 

Feminine efforts to "hang" the jelly-bag with the aid of chairs, broom- 
sticks and flat-irons are both pathetic and funny. This is how one woman solved 
the problem and thereby halved the labor of jelly-maldng: 

Take a wooden box at least two feet long and a foot deep; with a hammer 
split out half of one end and drive a strong nail in the middle of the split edge. 
Set it up cupboard wise on the table and place a stone jar under the projecting 
nail. Use a three-cornered jelly-bag of thin flannel or doubled cheese-cloth, and 
keep it open by pinning the top over a hoop of suitable size — a wooden em- 
broidery hoop is excellent for the purpose. This hoop should rest on the edge 
of the jar while you pour in your hot fruit; then raise it gently and let it hang 
from the nail until the juice has run through. Empty and rinse before removing 
the hoop, turning the bag inside out in the process. 



CLEANSING WITH GASOLINE 

To secure success in cleansing with gasoline, heat it quite hot by placing the 
vessel containing the gasoline in another of hot water. Place soiled garment in 
the hot fluid, cover for a short time and success is assured. Be careful and have 
no fire or lights near at hand. 

PUMPKIN PIE WITHOUT CRUST 

For lovers of pumpkin pie with whom pie crust does not agree: 
Prepare pumpkin as for ordinary pie. Butter your tins well and sprinkle 
them with as much corn meal as the butter will take. Pour in prepared pumpkin 
and bake. Use a little care in removing pieces of pie from the tin to the pie 
plates. 

POTATO SOUP 

When I boil peeled potatoes for dinner, I put on plenty of water and cook 
them thoroughly ; then I drain off this water and save it until supper time, when 
I add a cup of sweet milk and heat to boiling point, adding a generous lump of 
butter and thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed smooth with a httle 
cold milk. Let boil a few minutes, stirring constantly. Serve at once with 
celery salt for seasoning. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 55 

ANOTHER ANT EXTERMINATOR 

Thoroughly moisten poison fly-paper and sprinkle with sugar. Put in places 
most frequented by the ants, and, as the sugar attracts them, great numbers will 
gather on it and once tasted is sure death to them. 



KEEPS SKIPPERS FROM SMOKED MEAT 

To prevent skippers in smoked meat, dip the smoked pieces into boiling 
water for three or four minutes, and while yet moist sprinkle with black pepper, 
and not a skipper will ever bother the meat. 



CLEANING TINTED GLOVES 

Put the glove on the hand, take a piece of white flannel and moisten it very 
lightly with sweet milk. Rub on gently a little white Castile soap and go over 
the soiled glove until clean. Then rub with a dry flannel cloth. 



PLANTING SMALL SEEDS 

In planting very delicate flower seeds, fill eggshells with fine dirt, and when 
nearly full put in the seeds; cover lightly with a Uttle more dirt, keep moist, and 
when the plants are large enough to transplant, it can be done without disturbing 
the Uttle dehcate roots, as the shell can be broken away instead of digging out the 
plants. 

TO MAKE MEAT TENDER 
To make tough meat tender, rub over it at night a small quantity of soda, 
wash off the next morning and cook. 



bed 



HOT BRAN BAG 

Try using a bag of hot bran, instead of the hot water bag, for the invalid's 



SUBSTITUTE FOR CARBON PAPER 



Cover one side of a smooth pine board with a thin coat of paste made of 
common bluing powder and lard. Place in the sun to absorb the lard. When 
thoroughly dry, place on the board the cloth to which you want the pattern 
transferred and trace with any sharp pointed instrument that will not injure the 
cloth — a slate pencil or a wooden skewer will do. 



56 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

A KNITTING HINT 

When doing any piece of knitting the pattern of which requires some of the 
stitches to be removed to another needle for a time, the worker will find it more 
convenient to sUp the stiches onto a safety pin instead of a knitting needle. 
When the pin is clasped they cannot slip off, and the pin is not in the way as much 
as an extra needle. 



TO BAKE POTATOES 

Before baking potatoes, wash them carefully, pour boiling water over them, 
and let them stand for three or fovu- minutes. Then wipe them dry. Take small 
piece of brown paper, dip it in melted fat, and rub all over each potato. They 
will bake in a fourth less time, and peel as though they had been boiled. 



TO RELIEVE DIFFICULT BREATHING 

To relieve difficult breathing in case of membranous croup, fill the room 
of the sufferer with the fumes of vinegar. This can be easily done by pouring 
vinegar upon hot coals carried through the room on a fire shovel or in a hod. 
The steam affects the membrane and gives immediate relief. 



TO COOK WITHOUT FIRE 

The following is so simple that few will try it, but, nevertheless, it is worth 
trying. I took a fifty-pound lard can, (a tight box or old trunk would make a 
larger cooker) packed it with excelsior (hay or straw would do). Then I soaked 
some dried peaches one hour, got them to boiling in a tight-fid pail, made a hole 
in the center of the excelsior, put in the pail of peaches, put a cushion over that 
and the can lid on and weighted it down. In three hours I took the peaches out, 
and they were delicious. 

To cook beans, soak them over night, then season them and start them to 
boiling while you are cooking breakfast. Then pack them in your cooker, and 
do not uncover them until dinner is ready, when you will have a nice dish of hot 
beans. For those who fike oatmeal cooked over night, this is an easy way. 

The principle is simple — get the heat and hold it, by packing tightly. Be 
sure the article to be cooked has reached the boiUng point. Don't neglect to put 
the cushion on, and have the lid tight. Exclude the air and the compressed 
heat will do the cooking. 

ASHES FOR PORTLAND CEMENT 

I find by experience that coal ashes are superior to sand for mixing Portland 
cement. Two, three or even four parts of ashes to one of cement will do good work- 
Sift ashes for fine work. 



LITTLE H ELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 57 

QUICK WAY TO LAUNDER CURTAINS 

Shake the curtains and spread them out carefully upon the lawn. Pin 
them down at each scollop with toothpicks. Put on your rubbers, and with 
the hose spray the curtains thoroughly. This method will not injure them. 
The sun will soon dry them, and you will be surprised at the result, when yoil 
hang them again. This way is especially adapted to heavy curtains. 



CHOCOLATE DIP 

In making chocolate creams, add a trifle of lard or butter to the "chocolate 
dip." It wiU make them easier to manage. 



BLACKING A STOVE-PIPE 

Have you ever had trouble in blacking the pipe and drum part of your 
heating stoves? Here is the secret as told me by a hardware dealer: — Do not 
use blacking, but instead a little sewing machine oil rubbed on with a cloth and 
polished well. This will work with any sheet-iron or Russia iron parts of stove 
or pipe. 

SAVE ROAST DRIPPINGS 

Save all drippings from roast turkey and goose and blend with your lard for 
fried cakes. Clarify with a potato sUced. This improves the flavor and your 
cakes will be a golden-brown. 

A NEW FRUIT COMBINATION 

Prepare, as usual, your pears for canning, but just before filling jars with 
them, pare carefully all the white covering from several oranges, allowing one 
large or two small ones to each quart of pears. Separate into sections and drop 
into the boihng pears, allowing them to remain just long enough to scald through 
thoroughly. Then fill your jars with pears and oranges, and seal. 



A USEFUL PASTE 

A useful paste, almost a household necessity, is prepared as follows: Dis- 
solve a small teaspoonful of alum in a pint of warm water, and when it has 
cooled, add enough flour to make it into a thin paste, stirring it till smooth, then 
add a pinch of powdered resin and pour on the paste half a cupful of boiling 
water. When well mixed, and thickened, put into receptacles with covers 
and store in a dry closet or cupboard. When required to use, soften small 
quantity with warm water. 



58 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SODA IN GRUEL 

Just before removing either gruel or hasty pudding from the fire, stir in a 
pinch of soda. This makes it more easily digested. 



NEW APPLICATION FOR BURNS 

Milk of magnesia poured onto burns will give immediate relief; than cover 
burn with plain gauze and keep it saturated with the magnesia. A rapid cure 
will follow, with httle or no scar. Burns caused by electric wires and fire-arms, 
etc., must be cleansed first with warm water and green soap. 



CRABAPPLES FOR MINCEMEAT 

Use crabapples for mincemeat. Core and chop without peeling. Much 
richer than common apple. 

COLD COFFEE FOR STOVE BLACKING 
Any malleable iron stove if washed in cold coffee will keep black and glossy. 



NEW IDEA IN CAKE BAKING 

Melt the butter and add to cake or biscuit just before putting into tin, 
and one need never grease the tin. 

TO DESTROY EARTH-WORMS 

Fifteen drops of carbohc acid in one pint of water poured over earth in 
flower-pots will destroy earth-worms. 



TO REVIVE WITHERED FLOWERS 

Fill a bowl with water so hot that you can scarcely bear your hand in it; 
throw a little salt in the water and put the flowers in immediately. The effect 
is wonderful. 



ICING FOR CAKE 

A good icing that takes no boiling is made by putting a small piece of butter 
in a bowl with a tablespoonful of hot water. Stir into this powdered sugar until 
thick enough to spread easily. This will harden and make a splendid cover. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 59 



FOR A DAMP CELLAR 

If the cellar or house becomes musty from damp weather, do not move out or 
advertise the place for sale, but put some chloride of lime in a pan, pour over it 
boiling water, stir to dissolve, then sprinkle about the cellar walls, or saturate 
cloths with it to use in wiping cupboards, swing shelves or any cellar furniture 
that would not be injured thereby. Can be used dry. It is an excellent disin- 
fectant and deodorizer. 



FOR NEWLY MARRIED COUPLES 

It is a pretty custom to speak of the state of marriage as " the sea of matri- 
mony." If a sea, then the home is the ship in which the loving pair sets sail. 
The husband is perhaps the captain, but upon the wife devolves the duty of keep- 
ing the vessel intact, allowing no weak places to develop into leakage as " a small 
leak will sink a vessel." Leakages of different kinds are likely to occur. We 
shall look only on the danger of financial leaks. The wife who successfully 
manages the finances of her home must be familiar with all the details of house- 
hold economy. One who has learned somewhat in the school where experience 
rules will give for the benefit of young housekeepers a few hints on repairing leaks. 
May good health and prosperity attend each married couple who in loving help- 
fulness assist each other in safeguarding the craft in which lies their hope of happi- 
ness. If Darby be the bread-winner, let Joan be the bread-saver. Her task is 
equally important. 



TO MAKE VINEGAR 

If you wish to obtain vinegar at small cost, make it from that which is 
usually thrown away. Procure a large earthenware jar, or keg. Dissolve a 
pint of sugar in a gallon of warm water. Add a cake of yeast. Cover with 
a coarse cloth. If air is entirely excluded, fermentation will be slow. Let the 
jar or keg be the receptacle of rinsings from fruit jars, pans where candy or 
syrup have been boiled, skimmings from jelly while boiling, etc. When paring 
apples, put parings to soak for a day or two in warm water, then pour water into 
jar. After letting fruit drip from jelly bag, to obtain juice for jelly, put bag into 
crock or large pan, pour water over pulp, shake and mix, then hang and drip 
again. Pour second dripping into jar. Whenever anything sweet is added, 
add water also. In two or three weeks, if directions are followed, I predict you 
will have a large quantity of excellent vinegar. You need never exhaust the 
supply, if you continue as you began. 



SAVE DRY BREAD 

If your bread becomes dry, do not throw it away; it is a part of Darby's hard 
earnings. Dip the dry loaf quickly into water, put in pan, place in oven and 
leave until crust is dry. The steam from the external moisture will enter the 
loaf, leaving it fresh as when newly-baked. 



60 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO GLADDEN "SHUT-INS" 

Having been an invalid for several months, unable to leave my room, I 
was greatly cheered and comforted by the gift of a "sunshine bag," forty-five 
of my friends conspiring together to relieve the monotony of dreary days, and 
each one sending a little gift, some useful, some merely ornamental, but all most 
acceptable. Books, perfumery, boxes of note paper, post-card albums, vases, 
electric night-lamp, bouquet holders, etc. Each one represented the loving 
thought of the giver, and the hours, before so tedious, were shortened and filled 
with happy thoughts, as I looked over each article and called to mind the giver. 
I would like to reconamend this as the best kind of medicine for a "shut-in." 



TO KEEP DISH-TOWELS WHITE 

If you wish to keep your dish-towels white, do not allow the dish water to dry 
in them, each time they are used, but wash them with naphtha soap. I have 
found no other soap so good for the purpose. 



TO SAVE BATTER 

If you have mixed more pancake batter than can be used at one time, set 
it aside and use next day by adding more milk, flour and soda, allowing an extra 
quantity of soda for the fermentation of the "kept over" batter. 



SHEARS IN THE KITCHEN 

Hang on a convenient nail in your kitchen a pair of sharp, medium-sized 
shears, and with them trim tiie rind from slices of bacon, clipping the edges 
as they fry, to prevent curling. Trim the edges of your steak before cooking, 
and cut out the bones with these shears. When Uning pie-tins with pastry, trim 
the margin with your shears; also cut openings in the top crust to let steam escape. 
Cut your left-overs of meat for meat pie in strips or cubes; your "croutons" 
from bread slices with these shears, thus saving many a cut with a sharp knife 
when hastily used. 

TO COLOR PUTTY 

After glass is put in and the putty properly smoothed off, take a fine bristle 
brush and dust on a goodly quantity of dry paint powder, using the same color 
as sash is painted (lampblack is most commonly used, as that is the color of most 
sashes). Be careful to have paint powder cover all parts of putty. Tip sash up 
and dust off surplus. The oil in the putty retains enough of the powder to make 
it the color of it. The powder also absorbs the oil that is on the glass. This 
is a much better way than using oil paint. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 61 

CURE FOR CROUP 

Keep a brick in the stove oven. If the children are suddenly taken with 
croup, wrap a flannel around the brick, then pour hot vinegar over it, and the 
fumes of the steaming hot vinegar will clear the air passage. It will have a 
quicker effect if the head is covered to keep in the steam. Another good home 
remedy for croup is a small spoonful of sugar with a little powdered alum sprinkled 
over it. It will quickly relieve croup and bring up the phlegm. 



TO STOP HICCOUGHS 

For troublesome hiccoughs try a teaspoonful of granulated sugar and three 
drops of vinegar or lemon juice. 

CLEANSING PANAMA HATS 

Wash the hat well in Ivory soap, then take an old toothbrush and apply 
dioxygen; put in the sun for few hours and soon you will see the hat as good as 



SALAD MAKING 

In making salads, do not chop your meats and celery in a chopping bowl — 
cut into the desired sized pieces with scissors. This is quicker, neater and 
cleaner than the old way. 

TO COLLECT EARTH-WORMS FOR BAIT 

Take water in which walnut hulls have soaked over night and pour it on a 
spot of ground. In a very few hours the worms will come to the surface in large 
numbers. 



CURE FOR SLEEPLESSNESS 

Sleeplessness is often caused by the head being exposed to the cold, while 
the rest of the body is warm. In nine cases out of ten, if the head is covered 
with a silk handkerchief, it will induce the much desired sleep. 



RUGS THAT "CREEP" 

To keep an art square or ingrain rug smoothly on the floor, place under it 
an old carpet a trifle smaller than the rug. Tack the corners of the under one to 
the floor if desired ; the upper one will cling to it and keep its place much better 
than if laid on the bare floor. 



62 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



RELIEVES EAR-ACHE 

Put two or three live coals in an old teacup and sprinkle granulated sugar 
over them. Place a funnel over it, and let the steam and smoke go into the 
ear through the tube or neck of the funnel. It cannot injure the ear, and always 
affords reUef quickly. 

FEATHER PILLOWS 

When changing feathers from one tick to another simply press the feathers 
back from one corner for about six inches, and baste firmly before ripping open 
the seam. Sew the new tick to within the same distance. Then overhand the 
seams of the two ticks together, pull out the bastings from the full one and shake 
feathers into the new tick. When all the feathers are in the new tick, baste 
firmly before ripping apart. In this way feathers are easily managed without 
flying about the room. 

TO COLOR LACE ECRU 

Old white lace or silk gloves may be given a beautiful ecru color by first 
washing and then dipping them in plain table tea; the stronger the tea the deeper 
the color. 

A GOOD HOUSEHOLD SOAP 

To every pound of potash used add one-half pound of borax and a few 
drops of carbolic acid, according to strength of the acid, stirring in the two last 
ingredients just at the finish, either in boiled or cold made soap and the resultant 
soap will be superior to any soap for general purposes, as the housewife is certain 
of the condition and quaUty of fat used. If fresh mutton-tallow be used, it makes 
a good healing soap for workingmen's use. 



TO STOP HICCOUGHS 

Ten drops of camphor in half a cupful of hot sweetened water will usually 
relieve a bad case. Repeat in ten minutes if necessary, but usually it isn't. 
For the baby one to three drops will be enough. Even dropping some on a 
handkerchief and laying it near the baby's face has been effective. 



FLY-PAPER SEASON 

When it becomes necessary to use fly-paper try this method and see how 
much trouble will be saved. Tack the sheets of fly-paper to thin boards. In 
this way they are not carried across the room by a stray breeze and landed sticky- 
side down on tiie floor or furniture. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 63 

TO KEEP MEAT FRESH 

After butchering and thoroughly cooHng, wrap the meat in paper, and bury- 
in a grain bin. This will keep beef or pork fresh for months. 



WATER FOR CAKES 

Water is rnuch better for making cakes than milk. Hot water should 
always be used in making sponge cake. A cake made with hot water will not 
be tough. 



TO CLEAN A CLOCK 

Saturate a piece of cotton as large as an egg with coal oil, put on the floor 
of the clock and shut tight. In four or six days you will see the works clean as 
new and the cotton black with particles of dirt which have been loosened by 
the kerosene fumes. 



HOW TO WASH COLORED BLANKETS 

To wash blankets so the colors will not run, use rain water whenever prac- 
ticable (in this country, like the poor, "we have it always with us"), with a half- 
pint of ammonia to a tub of water. It " sets " the colors while loosening the dirt. 



CURE FOR GRIPPE 

Garlic eaten raw will cure a cold in the head, grippe or influenza in the first 
stages, but in cases where prejudiced people refuse to test its virtues, Irish 
moss lemonade made after the well-known flaxseed lemonade recipe and taken 
for both meat and drink stands next on the list. Pineapple juice will reUeve 
inflammation of the throat in the most advanced and chronic cases, and cure 
all ordinary attacks. In both membranous croup and diphtheria, pure pine- 
apple juice, either from the raw or canned fruit, will cure when the entire apothe- 
cary shop has been tried and found wanting. 



KEEPING POTATOES IN WINTER 

To keep sweet potatoes through the winter perfectly, line a barrel with 
warm dry newspapers, side and bottom, then wrap each potato in paper and pack 
into it, till full, cover well and keep in warm dry kitchen or any warm dry room. 
A smaller quantity may be packed in a box in the same way, and kept in warm 
dry atmosphere. To keep Irish potatoes in the cellar, sprinkle air-slacked hme 
among them; it seems to keep them dry and healthy. (As they are sorted, 
sprinkle a httle in every layer). 



64 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

WHEN BAKING 

If a handful of salt is put on bottom of oven under pans when baking ginger- 
bread or any cake easily burned, it will prevent burning. 
Putting a pinch of salt in the coflee improves tlie flavor. 



SAVE ENAMEL WARE 

If any food has stuck or scorched on the bottom of enamelled ware, do not 
scrape but rub hard soap all over it and put cold water in and cover, setting on 
the stove to heat, when all can be easily washed off and the kettle be as smooth 
as new. If very badly scorched, it may need two appUcations of the soap and 
cold water. 

BRIGHTENS STRAW MATTING AND OILCLOTH 

Wash matting twice during the summer with salt and water, say about 
a pint of salt dissolved in about a pailful of warm, soft water, drying the matting 
quickly with a cloth. The salt will prevent it from turning yellow. After oil- 
cloths are scrubbed and dried, they should be rubbed all over with a cloth dipped 
in milk. You will be surprised at the brightness. 



TO CLEAN FLOUR SACKS 

Put a tablespoonful of kerosene into two quarts of soap-suds and boil up 
your new flour sacks in the same, and they will be left white, with all the colored 
lettering gone. 

FOR THE ARTIST 

When paint has been allowed to harden on the palette, put the board in 
the oven long enough for the oils to soften, when it can be scraped off with a 
knife and then cleaned with some sort of scouring soap and polished with boiled 
oil. 

When you are through with your brushes for the day, wash them thoroughly 
in soap and water. 

IN THE LAUNDRY 

In doing laundry work whether you wash on a board or with a machine, 
cool the water so you can bear your hands in it before you put the clothes into 
it. Why? Because by putting white clothes in hot or boiling water for the 
first suds, a tinge will be left on them which cannot be washed out. 

When you launder fine table Hnen, never wring it through the wringer; if you 
do, creases will be pressed in that cannot be ironed out; always wring it by hand. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 65 

MAKING A RESTAURANT OF A HOME 

Statistics say that only fourteen per cent, of American homes have hired 
help. If the figures be correct, eighty-six married women out of every hundred 
are getting their own meals and puzzUng more or less over the same problems. 

Doubtless the majority of them labor self-sacrificingly and unselfishly, 
keeping house as best they know how or as best they can under their condi- 
tions; but often there is a sad lack of applied common-sense. For instance, 
many consult only the comfort and pleasure of their families, leaving themselves 
entirely out of the calculation. They are just as foolish and short-sighted as the 
selfish women. 

Any number of these over-kind mothers serve breakfast and sometimes 
other meals as though they were running a restaurant, allowing each member 
of the family, young and old, to come downstairs at his or her own sweet will, 
clamoring for a hot meal at once. The results are many, and all bad. The 
children form habits of selfishness, laziness and irregular rising; good food is 
wasted or spoiled by standing; the mother becomes literally a servant; the 
day's work has a broken beginning; and the family has missed the cheery gath- 
ering that would have had a strong influence for good upon the whole day. 
A happy breakfast, during which plans for the day are discussed, means much 
to the harmony of feeling and action among the members of a home. We need 
to know where each will be and what each is doing; besides, how do we know 
what may happen to our scattered flock ere the sun goes down? 

Of course when the children are mere babies, it is better for them and for 
the mother's work that they sleep as long as possible; then the parents can have 
the first meal together undisturbed ; but when a child is old enough to go to school, 
he should be up at the usual breakfast hour. Indeed, if he has any home study- 
ing to do, it is far better to get an hour for it in the early morning when the mind 
is fresh and the recitation time nearer than to sit up, tired and sleepy, endeavor- 
ing to do night work. " Early to bed and early to rise " is the wisest of rules for 
the school boy and girl. Good health demands a regular, reasonable hour 
for rising, and we all realize that our best work, be it mental or manual, is done 
before ten o'clock. 

But I am pleading for the child's early, regular rising for the mother's sake 
rather than its own. To serve a meal "on the installment plan" is really a 
diflScult thing. It is also unnecessary (except in unusual cases) , and a mistaken 
kindness to the members of her family. It is rank injustice to herself as well. 
A housekeeper's work is wearing enough under any circumstances, so there is 
no sense in prolonging the meal-getting and dish-washing, and thereby adding 
to her burden of care and worry. 

In the average American home, be it mean or "of means," we have no 
place for either " ladies of leisure " nor for slaves. Our households must be man- 
aged in such a way that burdens are shared and equaUzed as nearly as possible, 
each member consulting the comfort and welfare of the rest as well as of self. 
Only so can our homes be the refuge of which we dream, the quiet harbors into 
which all can float at nightfall for anchorage, w-here the ugly barnacles gathered 
out in the open sea can be rubbed off, and a fresh cargo of new courage taken 
on board. 



66 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

WHEN USING CANNED GOODS 

Much of the danger which we anticipate from using canned vegetables can 
be avoided by washing them thoroughly. All kinds of course will not admit of 
a bath, but beets, peas, spinach or string beans I always empty from the can 
into a colander and hold it under the faucet until they are well rinsed, after 
which I heat and season them and serve fearlessly. 



AUNT DINAH'S RECIPE 

(Given before the war) 

Yes, chile, dat cake is good to eat, 

But shuah you doan want no receet, 

Still, since dey say you'se goin' orf, 

To Ub in dat cold frozen norf, 

I'll try an' see if I kin fix it 

So yo'se pore white trash gal can mix it. 

You takes some butter — jess enuff — 
Too little makes de mixin' tuff; 
Den aigs — now wait, an' le' me see — 
Sometimes it's two and sometimes free, 
Jess as de hens to lay hab chuse; 
One cup or mo' of suga' use; 
'Bout half a cup o' milk den add, 
An' stir it roun' an' roun' like mad, 
But jiss one way, for doan you see 
De bakin' else will heaby be. 
Raisins and currants, citron, too, 
A berry little brandy'll do; 
Somehow dat alius seems a waste, 
Special if I once gets a taste, 
Right smart o' spice, a pinch o' salt. 
An' now you'd better call a halt 
An' see if somefin dere be not 
W'ich in your haste yo' done forgot. 
Laws, yes! Some bakin' powder sift in. 
Or else your cake will hab no hftin'. 
Stir berry hard, turn out an' bake. 
An' honey'll hab Aunt Dinah's cake. 



FOR WEAK EYES 

To one quart of cold water add one heaping teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one ditto of sugar (white). Let settle and bathe the eyes freely, flooding the 
liquid into them. "This is excellent. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 67 

TO DARN STOCKINGS 

Place a piece of mosquito netting or finer mesh over the hole and then dam 
through the meshes. It will make a disagreeable task much easier. 



TO MAKE A HOLE IN GLASS 

Press upon the glass a cake of wet clay and make a hole the desired size 
through the clay, laying bare the glass at the bottom. Pour melted lead into 
the hole and it will drop through the glass and leave a perfectly smooth, round 
hole. 



CURE FOR JAUNDICE 

Bayberry root or bark is a sure cure for jaundice. Steep well and extract 
all the goodness possible. Drink freely of this bitter liquid. Many years ago 
this cured the writer's mother of the severest attack, and of recent years a lady 
residing in Lowell, Mass. 

SAVING ON LONG GLOVES 

Long gloves are costly and often wear through on the finger tips after a very 
little time. If one cuts off the gloves at the wrist, a pair of ordinary length 
gloves can be sewed to them, and the seam being almost imperceptible, the 
gloves are practically as good as new at one-third the cost. 



TO PREVENT A FELON 

On the first sensation like the prick of a briar, wind the finger tight (a few 
long hairs are best). When very red, press hard with fingers of the other hand, 
as long as it can be well borne, loosen, repeat if necessary, and there will be 
no felon. 



MOIST COOKING UTENSILS 

If on taking up vegetables, etc., one has not time to fill utensil with water, 
turn upside down on a table, and it will keep moist for hours. 



TO PREVENT A RUN-AROUND 

When a throbbing pain is felt at the corner of the nail, with needle or sharp 
point of a knife (do not use a pin) open it close to the nail and squeeze until a 
little moisture exudes. If, in a few hours, the pain is still there, repeat and there 
will be no rim-around. 



68 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TWO WAYS TO COOK EGGS 

First way: — Cover the eggs with cold water, put over the fire and when 
they come to a boil they are done. 

Second way: — Pour boihng water over eggs, set on back of stove for half 
an hour. They are tender and delicious. 



TO CLEANSE A SKIRT 

Having the misfortune to buy a black bunting skirt which seemed to have 
been improperly cleansed of the natural wool grease, I tried completely immersing 
and thoroughly washing it in a couple of gallons of gasoline; then I let it drip 
dry on the clothesline; since then I have had no trouble whatever with it catch- 
ing the dust. After the first few wearings I felt it was ruined, as it looked gray 
with dust and the more I brushed the worse it looked, but since cleaning with 
gasoline, it keeps as free from dust as any goods possibly can, and best of all, 
the gasoline never wrinkles the goods, as water does, so every crease in the pleats 
was as perfect as before wetting it. 



THE EVER USEFUL MEAT CHOPPER 

Having some blackberries that I wanted to use for jam, and my fruit-press 
being out of commission, it seemed to me a big undertaking to rub them all 
through a colander, as there were ten quarts of them, so at the suggestion of my 
daughter, I put them through the meat chopper, and it answered the purpose 
well. No stained hands nor soiled sleeves. 



BAKING SODA ON THE TOILET TABLE 

If a pinch of baking soda is applied under the arm-pits after washing, it will 
positively eliminate all odor of perspiration. This is much more economical 
and effectual than some of the high-priced powders. 



FOR BURNS 

Save your egg-shells until through cooking. The white left in the shells 
is one of the best things to apply to a small burn. Apply two or three times. 
You will have no trouble from these httle burns. 



CATNIP TEA FOR COLIC 

A little weak catnip is very good for the little baby's colic. It is also a slight 
laxative. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 69 

ROSIN FOR WORMS 

Give your child a piece of rosin to eat, a little every day, if he is troubled 
with worms. It is perfectly harmless and will destroy the nests as well as the 
worms. An old Indian doctor recommended this, and I have found nothing 
else as effective. 



FOR SUDDEN DEAFNESS 

For sudden and unaccountable deafness: Dissolve a tablespoonful cooking 
soda in one-half cupful boiling water. Every morning, for a week or two, take 
out one-half teaspoonful of this, suitably warm, into it drop five drops pure 
glycerine and pour into the ear, and hold the head over until none runs out. 
At the end of a week or two, syringe the ear thoroughly with warm water. These 
two remedies have been successfully tested in my own family. 



FOR A SQUEAKING DOOR 

Rub soap on bottom of sill; if the difficulty lies in the hinges, dip a feather 
in kerosene and apply, swinging door to and fro gently. 



WASHING HANDKERCHIEFS 

Soak badly soiled handkerchiefs a half hour or more in a basin of warm 
water to which has been added a generous handful of salt. All that is objection- 
able will be removed, and they may then be washed as usual. 



A POINTER FOR THE BOYS 

When my twin boys demanded their " rain " shoes recently I was discouraged 
to find that they wouldn't go on their feet. " They are too little," I said. " Non- 
sense," said Grandma, "they are only stiff; they have been put away without 
being properly oiled. Apply equal parts of kerosene and castor oil with a woolen 
cloth and then see how easily they will sUp on." I did so and the^boys were 
happy with their "castor-oiled" shoes. 



KEEPING HAT FLOWERS FRESH 

When the flowers begin to fade on your summer hat, don't take them off 
and destroy them, but simply try your water-colors on them, and you will find 
them quickly restored to their natural beauty. Touch up each flower with the 
original color, making them much brighter — as water-colors dry much lighter. 
The water will not take the stiffness out of the flowers. This is a good and in- 
expensive way to keep your hats looking fresh. 



70 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

RIDDING A LAWN OF ANTS 

To rid the lawn and other places infested with pismires (ants), secure a 
bottle of bi-sulphide of carbon (at any drug store). Make a hole in the center of 
a common-size ant's nest with a stick or other instrument — say one inch in diam- 
eter — reaching to the bottom of the nest. Into this hole pour three dessert- 
spoonsful of the liquid, and close the top of the opening. Large nests will re- 
quire more holes and liquid. After twenty years of strenuous efforts with 
kerosene, hot water, etc., with little success except to deface the lawn, my troubles 
ended with the use of the above liquid and method of its use. Use for reptiles 
and ground animals, rats, etc. 



PREVENTING TEA STAINS 

Put a lump of sugar in the teapot and it will prevent tea staining any damask, 
however fine, over which it may be spilled. 



CUTTING SOAP EASILY 
To cut soap easily, first dip the knife in boiling water. 



FILLING SALT CELLARS 

Salt and pepper shakers can be quickly and neatly filled by the use of a 
small funnel placed in the mouth of each. 



PREVENTS SOGGY PIE-CRUST 

Pie-crust will not be soggy if brushed over with the white of an egg before 
the fruit is put in. 

REMOVING INK STAINS 

A Chinese plan for removing ink stains from cloth is to wash them with 
boiled rice. Rub the rice on the stain as you would soap, and wash with clear 
water. If the first application is not effective, repeat the process. We have 
found this to work like magic, even upon stains not discovered until perfectly 
dry. 

WHISKEY FOR A BOIL 

Keep a cloth saturated with whiskey upon a boil, and it will " head " in from 
two to three hours. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 71 



A CLOTHES-PIN APRON 

It is made ot common bed-ticking and has two large pockets. This is much 
handier than a box or basket, for the apron can be buttoned on, and the pins 
are always in reach. I put the pins into the pockets when gathering in the 
clothes and nave a special nail to hang it on. 



SUGGESTIONS 

To prevent the oilcloth sticking to the table, first cover the table with 
common wrapping paper. 

Anything mixed with water requires a hotter fire than if mixed with milk. 

Paste made with laundry starch is best for scrap books. It will not grow 
yellow with age. 

To clean alpaca, sponge with strained coffee. Iron on the wrong side. 

Whole cloves are better for exterminating moths than either tobacco or 
camphor. 



APPLES IN MANY DISHES 

For apple pies select tart, mellow apples. Pare and slice enough to fill a 
rich crust. Then to a generous half cup of granulated sugar add a tablespoonful 
of flour and stir thoroughly together, and spread over the sliced apples. Over 
this dot small lumps of butter before covering with crust. We prefer them with- 
out flavoring or spice, which destroys the fine apple flavor. 

We boil apples, taking large, perfect ones. First, make a syrup of sugar 
and water in a basin. Drop the apples, without peeling, into the boiling syrup, 
and cover with a plate or other tight cover, and place on the back part of the 
stove where they will cook slowly. When done through, but not broken, remove 
and pour the hot syrup over them. 

Sweet and sometimes sour apples whole, without paring, make spiced sweet 
pickles nearly as good as peaches. 

For breakfast relish take perfect ones and remove the cores with an apple 
corer. Slice about half an inch thick and fry in butter. After browning on one 
side, turn, and when nearly done sprinkle with sugar. 

For an apple salad, pare and chop, not too fine, mixing with them English 
walnut meats, also chopped. Cover with mayonnaise dressing. 

For a very nice jelly, slice apples without paring, but remove the cores. 
Proceed as for other fruit jellies. 

One year when canning peaches we had a quantity of juice left over. So 
we made ready some apples and put them into the juice, stewed them down 
thick, and canned as other fruit. We found it very finely flavored. 

In the spring we endeavor to save what apples we may have on hand, by 
fixing and canning them in self-sealing cans, for sauce or pies for summer use. 

When fixing a quantity of apples we always save the clean parings, and after 
stewing them well, sweeten and strain the juice and add it to our vinegar. It 
helps us to make cider vinegar. 



72 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO KEEP FLANNELS FROM SHRINKING 

Soak flannels in cold water forty-eight hours. Set them on the stove in 
the same water and let it come to a boil. Remove and let stand twelve hours. 
After this treatment your flannels will remain just the size they were when you 
bought them. 

OLD PHOTOGRAPHS 

There are very few homes which have not numerous old photographs too 
precious to be thrown away, yet of interest to few besides the immediate family. 
These generally take up too much space to be kept where they can be gotten at 
conveniently, and so are carefully put in boxes in the store-room or attic, to be 
kept from the dust. So when we would gladly spend a few moments looking 
on the familiar faces and scenes, alas! it is too much trouble to get them out. 
Here is one solution of the problem: Put the photographs in clear, hot water, 
and in a short time the pictures can be easily removed from the cards. When 
dry, either trim down the picture (to economize space) or cut away the back- 
ground entirely. This last requires care, but can be done without destroying 
the outline. Mount these in a scrap-book, or better still, a book made especially 
for kodak pictures. This book (or these books if more than one is needed) 
can be made very interesting by clever arrangement of the pictures, grouping 
relatives, school friends, army comrades, babies, out-of-door scenes, etc., in 
different portions of the book. 

SHOE COMFORT 

To make new shoes comfortable, moisten the lining of the shoes or the 
stocking worn with alcohol and wear the shoes while drying. This makes the 
hning of the shoe stretch to fit the foot and prevents the pinching often caused 
by the lining alone. By using alcohol there is no danger of taking cold. 



KETTLE COVERS 

Of all dishes, kettle covers are the most troublesome, when not in use. 
Try this: Make a large pocket of oil-cloth, binding strong with heavy braid; 
tack in a handy place near the cook-stove and you can see just the cover you 
want without handUng all the others. 



SIMPLE FURNITURE POLISH 

The following is the finest furniture polish I have ever known. Take one 
part turpentine, one part kerosene and one part vinegar and apply to furniture 
with flannel cloth, and then poUsh with soft flannel and the furniture will look 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 73 



USE OF FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

Flavoring extracts should not be added to sauce until it is cold; if put in 
while hot, much of the flavor passes off with the steam. 



TO KEEP GREEN VEGETABLES FRESH 

To keep lettuce, celery, cucumbers, etc., fresh several days, without ice, fold 
them loosely in a damp cloth. In this way they will keep even crisper than 
when put on ice. 

TO PEEL PEACHES 

When canning peaches place a dozen at a time in a pan, pour over them 
boiling water, let stand two or three minutes, then pour off the water; the thin 
skin of the peach will peel off easily and the fruit will not be soft or mushy. 



LAMP WICKS 

A dull knife will trim lamp wicks evenly and without waste. Scrape the 
wicks from each end toward the middle. 



DIGESTIBLE CABBAGE 

Cabbage is made digestible by first slicing and then putting in boiling water 
with a pinch of soda and some salt, and boihng just fifteen minutes. 



DEFECTIVE FRUIT CANS 

When fruit cans are defective, rim white wax — melted — around the top 
where metal and rubber unite. It has proven a sure remedy, is easily applied 
with a spoon and can be repeated many times. 



TENDER PINEAPPLES 

The toughness of pineapples is almost entirely eliminated by slicing the fruit 
up and down, from stem to blossom end, instead of through the core as is usually 
done. Thrust a fork into the blossom end to hold the apple steady and slice 
imtil you come to the hard, pithy core which can then be discarded. This trick 
was taught me by an old pineapple grower and makes all the difference in the 
world in the tenderness of this fruit, which is usually hard and chippy when 
sliced with instead of against the grain. 



74 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

PREPARING PUMPKIN FOR PIE 

In cooking pumpkin for pies or drying, if it seems watery, run it through 
the colander, then strain it through a cloth, and it will be found fine and dry. 



BUTTONS THAT STAY ON 

Place a pin across the top of the button, and sew over that, thus holding 
the thread so that when the pin is removed the button is not close to the cloth; 
then wrap the thread a few times around the stem thus formed. The buttons 
will stay on as long as the garment lasts. 



BRIGHT FRYING PANS 
Boil a little vinegar in them before washing. 



HINT FOR "WALKERS 

If you are going to take a long walk, first rub that side of your stocking 
which is next to your feet well with soap, and your feet will never blister. 



WIRE CHAIR BOTTOMS 

To bottom worn-out chairs, get a piece of common chicken wire netting, 
cut in the shape of the chair bottom you wish to put it in ; only let it be two inches 
larger all around than the size of the chair; turn in the edges and tack, just as 
you would a wooden bottom. Your chair will be far more comfortable and the 
expense is ahnost nothing. For a rocking chair a Hght cushion is an addition. 
Since using the wire I have entirely discarded wooden bottoms for chairs. 



KEEPING RHUBARB FRESH 

Rhubarb can be kept fresh and crisp several days by standing the stalks 
in a pitcher, or other vessel, of cold water. By some people it is kept many 
months, uncooked, by canning in cold water. 



HOT CAKES WITHOUT MILK 

When boiling potatoes save your potato water, add an egg, salt and a large 
spoonful of sugar and mix it slowly; then add your baking powder and you will 
find yom" cakes fighter and better than when made with milk. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 75 



TO BOIL VEGETABLES 

When cooking lima beans, rice, etc., it is very provoking to have them foam 
and sputter from the kettle onto one's clean stove. Drop into the kettle a small 
lump of butter and there will be no "boiling over." 



OLIVE OIL IN BAKED BEANS 

Use five full tablespoons of oUve oil to one quart of dry beans. They are 
delicious and more easily digested than when pork is used. 



WHEN THE CAKE BURNS 

When baking a cake, if the under side becomes slightly burned, take a 
lemon grater and rub over the burned portion, so removing it without breaking 
the cake, as usually happens when a knife is used. 



USES OF BUTTERMILK 

Should you be so unfortunate as to be poisoned by poison ivy, bathe the 
affected parts in buttermilk every ten or fifteen minutes until the poison is 
counteracted. Should the case be a severe one, poultice the blisters with bread 
and buttermilk poultice. It will give rehef very soon and will cure the most severe 
cases. 

Buttermilk will remove mildew from cloth, white or colored. Soak the gar- 
ment over night, then lay it on the grass in the sunlight. If the stain is set, 
soak the cloth for two or three days and lay it in the sun. 

Buttermilk is excellent for freshening salt pork for frying. Slice the pork 
and soak over night, or set on stove and let it come to a boil, dip in flour and fry. 



TO REVIVE WILTED ROSES 

_ Wilted roses, seemingly fit only for the rubbish heap, may be completely 
revived and freshened. Put the stems of the roses in a tumbler of water, and then 
place the tumbler and roses in a vessel of sufficient size to allow the entire bouquet 
to be covered. Cover the vessel tightly and leave undisturbed for twenty- 
four hours. By that time the roses will be found all fresh and invigorated as 
if just plucked from the bushes, with every petal covered with artificial dew. 
Wilted lettuce may also be freshened and kept in excellent condition for weeks 
if treated in the same way. 

NAIL PUNCTURES 

In case you should step on a rusty nail, tack or pin, just set your foot in a 
basin of kerosene. It will save the doctor's bill and suffering. 



76 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix and 
bake in layers with any desired filling. 



SMOKY LAMPS 

To prevent the smoking of a lamp, soak the wick in strong vinegar, and dry 
it well before using. It will then burn both sweet and pleasant. 



TO FASTEN LABELS ON TIN 

Allow one-half ounce of tragacanth and two ounces of acacia to stand in 
one-half pint of water until the acacia has been dissolved, then strain and add two 
ounces of glycerine, in which seven grains of thymol are suspended. Shake the 
mixture well and add sufficient water to make one pint. 

This separates on standing, but by shaking once or twice it is mixed suffi- 
ciently for use. 

WASHING SILK UNDERWEAR 

Articles made of silk should always be washed in tepid water and the soap 
used on them should not be caustic. White castile soap or any good white soap 
will answer. If the silks are to be kept white, ammonia should not be used as it 
gives a yellow tinge; a little borax, however, may be used. If the silk is of an 
ecru shade ammonia may be employed. 

Never rub silk garments on the board in washing; always rub them with 
the hands. Make a strong suds of tepid water and add to it one teaspoonful of 
borax, which has been dissolved in a pint of boiling water. This is enough for 
two pailsful of suds. Put the silk garments into it and let stand for twenty 
minutes or half an hour, then wash them with the hands. Rinse in two waters, 
run through the wringer and hang them out. When a little more than half 
dried, take them in and spread on a sheet. Roll them up tightly, let them stand 
about an hour and then press them. Use a rather cool iron and have a clean 
white cloth or brown paper between the iron and silk. 



EGG FOR AN INVALID 

Beat the yolk and white separately until extremely light, add a pinch of 
salt, pour into a china cup, which set in a saucepan of hot water, stirring con- 
stantly till scalded, but not cooked. When this is done slowly, the egg just 
thickens slightly, but puffs up until the cup is almost filled with creamy custard. 
Set in the oven a moment and serve at once. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 77 

FRIED SQUASH 

Cut the squash into thin slices, dip into egg, powder with cracker dust and 
fry in boiling lard. It fries very crisp and makes a delightful substitute for meat 
now and then. 



CURE FOR CONSUMPTION 

I lost two daughters by consumption. This recipe is what I think saved 
the third, who came home from Normal school pale, weak, having no appetite, 
with a bad cough and a rise of temperature of one and one-half degrees every day. 

Break one fresh egg into an ordinary sized tumbler, beat well, add one 
tablespoonful of granulated sugar, beat again, add the juice of one half a lemon, 
fill up the glass with water and stir well. To be taken morning, noon and night; 
after a few days give the patient a glass midway between the others, and so on 
until from eight to nine glasses can be taken daily. The egg and sugar nourish, 
the lemon juice stimulates the stomach to digest and the water supplies the 
moisture the fever is burning up. 

Drugs cannot cure consumption. If the stomach can assimilate food and 
the patient will hve in the open air and sunshine only is there hope. Try this in 
time and the patient will be saved, and you will thank God for the "little help." 



RELIEF FOR CROUP 

One tablespoonful of lard and one-half teaspoonful of essence of peppermint 
thoroughly mixed, put in a dish and placed over lamp or Giant Heater to heat, 
and appHed while warm to throat and chest, will relieve a "croupy" child. 



CLEANSING FLUID 

Dissolve one-sixth of an ounce of saltpeter in one quart of soft water, add 
one ounce of ammonia (hquid), one ounce of bay rum. Put in bottle, cork tight, 
apply with sponge. 



TO KEEP TINS FROM RUSTING 

Tin vessels used in water often rust. This can be prevented by greasing 
well and baking in oven. They will not rust then, no matter how much used in 
water. Care should be taken not to burn the vessel. 



TO SAVE PLANTS 

To prevent bugs from eating your cucumber vines, plant one stalk of garlic 
in each cucumber fill; nothing will then bother the plant. 



78 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SHAWL KNITTED IN TWO COLORS 

Wind a skein each of two colors into a ball, knitting as one thread. Cast on 
eighty stitches and make scarf two yards long. Crochet a scallop for the long 
edge. Fringe the short ends with a fringe of twenty chain in two colors. 



NEW WAY OF COOKING BEANS 

Take one pint dry white beans, boil until tender, as for baked beans, then 
allow the water to boil away and season and mash with potato masher. Pack 
tightly in a dish and when thoroughly cold, cut in slices and serve. 



SEWING HINTS 

To prevent machine stitching from drawing or puckering, soak a spool of 
thread in a cup of water for six hours, then dry before using. 

If colored thread is oiled with machine oil it will be stronger and work more 
easily. 



WHEN COOKING OYSTERS 

Never salt for soups or stews until just before removing from the fire. 

In frying oysters a little baking powder added to the cracker crumbs will 
greatly improve them. 

Escalloped oysters retain their flavor better if covered while cooking. 

Half the liquor, heated, or hot milk, may be poured over escalloped oysters 
when half baked. 

It is always better to handle oysters with a fork, as contact with the hands 
may make them tough. 



PERSPIRATION STAINS 

Gingham or other colored shirtwaists that have become discolored by perspi- 
ration under the arms may be restored by soaking the waist an hour or two in cold 
water, then use plenty of cornmeal to rub the places — instead of soap — when 
washing. 



WHEN MAKING BERRY JAM 

I wash and pick my berries and before heating I take my wire potato masher 
and mash them thoroughly. When all nicely mashed I stir in my sugar. Then 
I put on the stove and just let it come to the boil, stirring so it will heat evenly. 
I let it boil about three minutes and then can in glass jars same as I would any 
fruit and I find after two years my jams taste just like fruit right off the vine. I 
never again would stand and stir jams by the horn- in the old way. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 79 

COOKIES WON'T BURN 

Keep your cookies from burning on the bottom. Turn the baking pan 
upside down and bake on the bottom of the pan and you will never do any other 
way. 



CANNING PIE PLANT 

Pick when it is long and good, cut up and put in glass fruit cans, press down, 
cover with cold water, seal and put away. It will keep fresh until the new crop 
comes. In sections where the fruit is scarce, it can be easily raised, and is easily 
kept as described. 

PICNIC SANDWICHES 

Bake the bread in quart cans and press the chopped meat or chicken in cans 
of the same size. When both are cold put very thin slices of the meat between 
two buttered slices of the bread. If your bread and meat are good, you will be 
proud of yovu- sandwiches. 

OIL PICKLES 

Twenty-five medium sized cucumbers, sliced thin — not pared; one-quarter 
teacupful black mustard seed; one tablespoonful celery salt; one-quarter tea- 
cupful white mustard seed; one-quarter teacupful table salt; three pints vine- 
gar; one cupful oUve oil. Pack in small jar and let stand one week before using. 



TO CLEAN LACES 

Clean delicate white laces with calcined magnesia: Sprinkle the lace thickly 
on both sides. Lay it on a sheet of heavy writing paper, place a second sheet over 
it and put it away within the leaves of a heavy book for four or five days. Then 
shake off the powder and the lace will be clean. 

Laces can be whitened by soaking in soap suds in the sun. They should 
never be rubbed but soused up and down very gently and squeezed between the 
hands until they are only damp, not dry. 

To clean white silk laces soak in skimmed milk over night, souse in warm 
soap suds, carefully rinse, then pull out and press down while damp. 

Black lace may be cleaned with one teaspoonful of borax to a pint of warm 
water. Don't dry it near a fire; heat is apt to make it rusty. Gold and silver 
laces can be cleaned with stale bread crumbs mixed with powdered blue. To a 
half loaf of bread take one-quarter of a pound of the powdered blue. Sprinkle 
thickly over the lace and let stand for some time. Brush off and brush lightly 
with a piece of velvet. Laces are given a creamy color by putting small quan- 
tities of strained coffee or powdered saffron in the rinsing water until the right 
cream or ecru color or shade is produced. 



80 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO BURN OUT SOOT 

If newspapers saturated with kerosene are put on top of the cook stove just 
under the Uds and back of the draft in the pipe and fired, the accumulated soot 
will burn out. 



TO IMPROVE RHUBARB 

One-half tablespoon of cornstarch dissolved and added to rhubarb when done 
cooking takes away the disagreeable feeling rhubarb leaves on the teeth, a very 
objectionable feature of that plant. 

CURE FOR "RUN-AROUND" 

Mutton tallow and white chalk mixed and bound on the finger is a sure cure 
for run-aroimd. The same is an excellent remedy for felons if applied when 
first started. 



A CURE FOR BURNS 

Turpentine and camphor gum — all the gum the turpentine will cut — applied 
to a burn will take out the fire, and heal it up, no matter how bad the burn, and 
will not leave a scar. 



ENRICHING GRAVY 

If the chicken or meat lacks in richness, the gravy may be made excellent 
by beating an egg with a little milk and adding to the gravy with the flour. 



NOVEMBER SUGGESTIONS TO FLOWER GROWERS 

A supply ot materials tor protecting bulb beds and all tender or half-hardy 
plants or shrubs, should be secured during this month. As it is the alternate 
freezing and thawing of early spring which does the greatest damage, the work 
of covering may be left until very late in the season, but in locahties where 
protection is needed, snow will probably interfere with the work of securing 
the covering material if not done soon. 

A cover to shield from the sun, and so prevent an early flow of sap, or thaw- 
ing of the soil, is what is needed; care should be taken that it does not pack solid 
and exclude air. Boughs from evergreen trees are the best covering, but if these 
are not available any small branches may be put over the beds and leaves thrown 
over them. Corn stalks, hay, or straw may be used; but the seeds in such 
materials are a bait for rats and mice which may injure plants. 

It is a good plan to get soil for winter use after a slight freeze, as insects 
go down to avoid the cold near the surface, and fewer will be taken with the soil. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 81 

Prepare a quantity of fine soil for the seed pans to be used early in the spring; 
keep it moist and warm until every weed seed has sprouted, then set it out where 
they will "freeze to death." 

This method of getting rid of the weeds is better than heating the soil, for 
the reason that a degree of heat sufficient to kill the seeds will liberate and waste 
elements of the soil which are essential to plant growth. 

To cut away diseased branches of foliage and leave it lying on the ground 
is a sure way of spreading whatever disease they were affected with. Burning 
these, and everything in the way of dead vegetation, lessens next year's work 
to a marked degree, for it destroys millions of weed seeds, insects and eggs, as 
well as destroying their hiding places. 

Ashes from such materials contain a large percentum of phosphate and are 
one of the best fertilizers for a lawn. 

If the ordering of Easter lily (Lihum Harrisii) bulbs has been neglected, do 
not think it is too late, but find out if Easter comes on one of its late dates 
next year and order accordingly. There is a great difference in the size of bulbs 
and a seemingly disproportionate difference in the price, but the one who pays 
the price and gets the largest and soundest bulbs, will get more beauty from 
them than could be had from several times the money if invested in a greater 
number of small bulbs. 

Lilies need very rich soil, but if barn-yard fertihzers are used they must be 
well rotted, and put below the soil surrounding the bulb. As a rule, it is better 
to give liquid fertilizers after the buds have started than to risk burning the 
roots. 

A pot of freesias, in bloom, makes a delightful Easter gift and November is 
the time to pot them for that purpose. 

If pansy and violet roots are taken from the beds, potted in rich soil and kept 
in cool rooms with north or east windows they will furnish their full quota of 
the winter's floral display. 

Crowns (pips) of lily of the valley may be taken up and potted; then kept 
in a dark place where the temperature is just above freezing point until wanted, 
and will come into bloom very quickly when brought into strong light and warmth. 

The garden plants which bloom early in the spring have their blossom germs 
fully matured before cold weather comes and any of them may be forced into 
bloom during the winter by taking a little trouble to give them, indoors, the con- 
dition of light and warmth which is natural to them at the blooming season. 

A few of each kind will give the variety which we need in flowers as well as 
in other things and amply repay the httle time and trouble expended on them. 



KEROSENE LAMPS 

To prevent explosions great care should be used in looking after kerosene 
lamps. As the oil burns down in the lamp, highly inflammable gas gathers over 
its surface, and as the oil decreases the gas increases. When the oil is nearly 
consumed a slight jar will inflame the gas, and an explosion is sure to follow. 
A bombshell is no more to be dreaded. Now if the oil is not allowed to burn 
more than half-way down, such accidents are almost impossible. Always fill the 
lamps every morning, and then an explosion need never be feared. 



82 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

ECONOMICAL MEAT DISHES 

In the majority of homes, meat is the most costly article of food, yet it is 
surprising how few housewives give the matter serious consideration or do what 
they might to reduce this expense. Confounding price with nutrition, they 
become imbued with tlie idea that only the high-priced cuts of meat are whole- 
some, and thus entirely lose sight of the fact that some of the inferior cuts con- 
tain equally as much nourishment, and in the hands of the clever cook can be 
rendered not only as palatable but also as attractive. The appended recipes will 
illustrate this truth, and at the same time afford acceptable changes from the steak 
and roast which appear with such monotonous regularity the year round. 

Beef Braise: Take a piece of rump of the desired size; pound tender, tie 
and skewer, then lay in a deep baking pan previously lined with thin shces of 
salt pork and sliced onion; cover the top of the meat with slices of pork, sprinkle 
lightly with pepper, add a cup of boihng water, dredge thickly with flour, cover 
closely and bake in a slow oven, allowing twenty minutes to the pound. Then 
uncover, take out the meat, skim off the fat and thicken the broth for gravy. 

Braised Calf's Liver: Lay the liver in a dish, pour on boiling water to cover, 
and immediately pour it off, which will seal up the juices and remove the unpleas- 
ant flavor which many persons find unpalatable. Lard the rounded side with 
salt pork. Fry an onion in bacon fat, then put it with the liver in a braising 
pan or a deep baking dish; sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, add a bay leaf 
and a little minced parsley ; pour over enough boihng water to half cover, put on 
the lid and bake two hours in a steady oven. When done, season the broth with 
lemon juice, pour over the liver and serve at once. 

Brown Stew: Put a rather thick piece of beef with little bone and some 
fat over the fire in a stew kettle; pour over it just enough boiling water to cover, 
season with pepper, put on a closely fitting fid and bring quickly to a boil, then 
move to a cooler part of the range and simmer four hours, or until the meat 
is tender, turning it occasionally and adding, as needed, just enough boiUng 
water to prevent scorching. An hour before dishing the meat, season with salt. 
Thicken the drippings for gravy. 

Veal Fricassee: Cut two pounds of veal — the ribs, the back or knuckle — 
into small pieces and take out the bones. Place over the fire and cover with 
boiling water; bring to a boil, skim well, add two small onions, some thin slices 
of salt pork and a saltspoonful of pepper; cover closely, remove to a cooler part 
of the range and simmer until the meat is thoroughly done; then add one table- 
spoonful of flour wet up with a little cold water, and a cup of cream or rich milk. 
Boil five minutes. Before serving, garnish with rounds of hard-boiled eggs. 

Beef Loaf: Put three pounds of chuck steak through a meat chopper; add 
to it one cup of grated bread crumbs, three beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of 
salt, a dash of cayenne and one tablespoonful of melted butter. Mix all together 
and form into a loaf. Put into a baking pan, pour in a little boiling water and 
bits of butter, cover and bake an hour and a quarter, basting occasionally. Serve 
hot with tomato sauce or cold with tomato catsup. 

Mock Duck: Score an inch thick round steak with a sharp knife. Prepare 
a stuffing as for chicken and spread over the steak ; fold it over and tie or skewer 
in place. Put in a dripping pan, lay over it a few slices of salt pork and bake 
forty-five minutes. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



DECEMBER WORK IN THE WINDOW GARDEN 

The principal work of December lies in the care of plants already potted and 
growing and perhaps the greatest care will be given to the bulbs which are expected 
to furnish blooms for Christmas decorations. 

If the buds seem to be well developed but not coming above the neck of the 
bulb as they should, water them with warm water to which a tiny pinch of nitrate 
of soda, or saltpeter, has been added. Do not give the stimulant oftener than 
once a week, and not at all if the buds are coming up well. 

It is sometimes a help to place a paper funnel over the plant, leaving the top 
opening about a quarter of the size of the base, or in other ways to get all the 
light above the bud, in order to induce it to grow upward. 

If geraniums, or other plants which produce their blossoms at the end of 
branches, show a tendency to grow to one stalk, lose no time in pinching them 
back, to force a growth of lateral branches and get many blooming points. It 
is better to sacrifice the first blossoms and have many more, later on. 

It is a question of form, too, for the pinched-back plant will become a stocky, 
bushy plant, much more beautiful than any spindhng stalk could ever be. 



KEEP LAMPS CLEAN 

One very necessary thing in the care of lamps is that the oil reservoir be 
kept scrupulously clean inside. No oil is so pure that it does not leave a sediment 
and if this be allowed to accumulate, the oil will fail to burn as brightly as it other- 
wise would. Lamp reservoirs sliould be washed out once a week, adding a table- 
spoonful of soda to a quart of hot water, after which thoroughly rinse and drain, 
or wipe dry. The burner should be thoroughly scrubbed and brushed, boiling in 
strong soapsuds, ashes or soda. The wick should touch the bottom of the lamp, 
and be wiped at the top with a piece of soft paper to remove the charred edges, 
and if too short can be lengthened by another piece of wick until time is found 
to prepare a new one. 

CARE OF LAMP WICKS 

To insure a good light, wicks must be changed often, for as soon as they be- 
come clogged they do not permit the free passage of the oil. Soaking wicks in 
vinegar for twenty-four hours before placing in the lamps insures a clear flame; 
or wash thoroughly in suds and dry before replacing in the lamps. 

To put in a wide wick either in a lamp or oil stove, starch and it will slip in 
easily; starching does not interfere with its clear burning. 

When lighting a lamp turn the wick up slowly and thus prevent smoking. 
This is well to follow in hghting an oil stove, as the increasing heat causes it to 
burn stronger as well as heating the chimney too rapidly. 

When taking the lamp from a warm room into a cold one, first turn down 
the wick — and always lower the wick when you wish to extinguish the flame, 
and wave a book or paper across the top of the chimney — never blow down the 
chimney, as the lamp is liable to explode if turned up high or partly empty. 



84 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

CLEANING LAUP CHIMNEYS 

A piece of sponge on the end of a stick is convenient for cleaning the chim- 
neys — also holding them over the nose of a boiling tea-kettle for a moment and 
rubbing with a clean cloth, will make them beautifully clean. Lamp chimneys 
are made less liable to break by putting in cold water, bringing slowly to the boil- 
ing point, boiling for an hour and allowing them to cool before removing from 
the water. 

A convenient arrangement for cleaning lamps is an old server — to hold the 
articles — provided with a lamp filler, scissors, box of wicks, soda, soap, cloths 
and a wire hair-pin or two for cleaning the burners. 



A WESTERN WIFE 

She walked behind the lagging mules 
That drew the breaker thro' the soil; 

Hers were the early rising rules. 
Hers were the eves of wifely toil. 

The smitten prairie blossomed fair. 
The sod home faded from the scene; 

Firm gables met the whisp'ring air 
Deep porches lent repose serene. 

But with'ring brow and snowy tress, 
Bespeak the early days of strife; 

And there's the deeper wrought impress- 
The untold pathos of the wife. 

O Western mother! in thy praise 
No artist paints nor poet sings, 

But from thy rosary of days 

God's angels shape immortal wings! 



CHOICE RECIPES FOR CHRISTMAS CANDIES 

Brown Almond Bar: Put two pounds light brown sugar into a clean granite 
saucepan; add two-thirds of a cup of cold water and one-third of a teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar. Put over the fire and when it begins to boil add one pound 
of shelled almonds, stirring them in slowly. Boil until the nuts will slide off the 
lifted spoon easily. Then pour into a buttered coohng tin, and when cool cut 
into strips. To make peanut bar, substitute two pounds of peanuts for the 
almonds. 

Honey Taffy: Pour over one pint of white sugar enough water to dissolve 
it; add four tablespoonfuls of stramed honey. Boil to the hard crack. Pour 
out on greased pans, and let remain until nearly cold. Then pull on a hook. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 85 

Sliced Cocoanut Bar: Cook two pounds of best granulated sugar, two- 
thirds of a cup of water, and a pinch of cream of tartar, without stirring, to 
hard-crack in water; then add slowly one cocoanut pared and sliced very thin. 
Stir thoroughly, then pour into a buttered pan. When cool, cut into any shape 
desired. 

Chocolate Cones: Put one pound of best granulated sugar into a sauce- 
pan; add half a cup of water, and with a wooden spatula stir over the fire until 
the sugar is dissolved. Then remove the spatula and cook without stirring 
until the syrup soft-balls when a little of it is tested in ice water. Pour slowly 
but in a steady stream into a bowl that has been lightly brushed over with oil 
or water. Do not scrape the sides of the saucepan or the syrup will granulate. 
Have ready in a bowl six ounces melted chocolate. Divide the sugar mixture 
into two parts and into one pour one-third the melted chocolate and vanilla extract 
to season to taste. Stir until a stiff mass is formed; then shape into small cones 
and drop them upon buttered paper. Put half the remaining cream mixture 
into a cup and stand it in boiling water; add vanilla to flavor and stir over the 
fire until of the consistency of thick syrup. Take the cup to the table, and dip 
half the cones, one at a time, into it, coating each thoroughly. To the remainder 
of the creamed sugar add the remainder of the melted chocolate and two table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water. If too thick, add, a drop at a time, more boiling water, 
until of the Qonsistency desired. Dip the rest of the cones in it. Although the 
above process seems a tedious one, the result will make amends for the extra time 
and labor spent. 

Butter Scotch: Put three pounds of light-brown sugar, one-half cup of 
molasses, four even tablespoonfuls of butter and one-half teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar over the fire and boil until it is quite brittle when tested in ice water. 
Add a few drops of any flavoring desired, pour into a greased pan and when cool 
mark into squares. 

Marshmallows : Soak two ounces of white gum arable in eight tablespoonfuls 
of water one hour. Stand the vessel containing it in a pan of boiUng water, 
place on the back of the range, stirring occasionally, until the gum arable is 
dissolved. Then strain through a fine-meshed sieve. Add seven ounces of best 
granulated sugar, put into a double boiler and stir over the fire until thick and 
white. Take from the fire, flavor with vanilla, beat hard and with a quick 
motion for five minutes; then pour into a bowl containing the whipped whites 
of four eggs, beating with one hand while pouring with the other. Beat the whole 
thoroughly, then turn into a pan well dusted with cornstarch. When cold, 
cut into squares and dust each square with cornstarch. Pack in tin boxes. 

Cocoanut Fudge: Boil together until it soft-balls when tested in ice water, 
two cups of granulated sugar and two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk. Just be- 
fore taking from the fire, stir in one cup finely grated cocoanut and a rounded 
tablespoonful of butter. Take from the fire, add a few drops of lemon extract, 
then beat the mixture until it begins to thicken. Pour out on buttered tins and 
when cold enough cut into cubes. 

Coffee Caramels: Put one pound of light-brown sugar into a clean granite 
saucepan; add one cup of strong clear coffee, one-half cup of sweet cream and one 
tablespoonful of butter. Put over the fire and boil, without stirring, until it will 
hard-crack when a little is dropped into cold water. Then pour into greased 
cooling tins, and when cool enough, mark off into inch squares. 



86 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

USES OF KEROSENE 

Kerosene is good for many things besides fuel and lamp oil. It should 
always be substituted for soap in cleaning shellac floors. Use a cupful to a 
pailful of lukewarm water — hot water spoils the varnish — and wipe dry with 
a floor mop or soft cloth. After scrubbing oilcloth, if a Uttle kerosene is rubbed 
on it and rubbed dry, the colors of the oilcloth m\\ be wonderfully freshened. 
Clean zinc with hot, soapy water and polish with flannel dampened in kerosene. 
A little used on the furniture will improve it, care being taken with varnished 
surfaces, as too much kerosene will soften the varnish and cause the dust to ad- 
here more easily. Clean the kitchen woodwork with a soft cloth dampened in 
kerosene. It is more quickly and easily done than with soap and water — and 
looks fresher. When so unfortunate as to spUl kerosene oil or other grease on 
the carpet, sprinkle buckwheat flour (wheat flour will do) lightly over it until it 
is completely covered, and let it he without disturbing it for a week, brush off, and 
there will be no trace of oil left; or leave for a couple of days, brush off and repeat. 

For removing rust nothing is equal to kerosene. To clean Russia iron, 
mix blacking with kerosene and apply with a brush as usual; it will look nearly 
as well as new. When putting away the stove-pipe for the summer, rub well with 
kerosene, wrap in papers — being careful to stuff each end full of paper — and the 
pipe will keep nicely. If an article becomes badly rusted, pour the oil into a pan 
and lay it with the rusted surface in the oil so as to cover it. Leave as long as 
may be necessary for the oil to penetrate the rust; then wipe off and polish 
with sand soap or with bath brick, according to the article to be cleaned. 

Try a saturated solution of kerosene and salt for chilblains. Wipe your 
flatiron on a cloth dampened in kerosene to clean and to prevent scorching. 
Then a little on the hinges of a creaking door — it will stop the annoyance 
(or the lead of a soft pencil will answer the same purpose, if handier). Saturate 
a woolen rag with kerosene and polish up the tin tea-kettle — it will make it as 
bright as new. 

When the rubber rollers on the wringer get discolored and covered with lint 
from the flannels, etc., dip a bit of cloth in kerosene and rub them— they will 
look hke new. Very little oil is sufficient— merely enough to moisten the cloth. 
To clean sewing machines, cover all the bearings with kerosene oil, work the ma- 
chine quickly for a few minutes, then thoroughly rub aU the oil off with rags and 
apply machine oil to the parts which need oihng. 

Kerosene on salt pork wrapped about the throat when it is sore is good — or 
rubbing kerosene on the throat, being careful not to blister — and even taking 
it internally in small doses. Kerosene oil is also an effective remedy for burns — 
fully equal to linseed oil. It contains the remedial quahties of vaseline, but is 
a much less soothing application and the odor is, of course, objectionable. 

On wash-day, cut up a quarter of a cake of soap into the wash-boiler, and 
allow it to dissolve, which it will do by the time the water comes to a boil. Then 
stir in a cupful of kerosene and put in the sheets, towels, pillowcases, etc.-^that 
is, the clothes which are not badly soiled. Boil for fifteen minutes, stirring 
frequently. Then rinse, rubbing them out in the rinsing water to wash out the 
soap. This is all the washing they need, and you will find them clean and ready 
for the bluing. The kerosene dissolves the dirt and whitens the clothes without 
injury to the fabric. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 87 

BUYING SUPPLIES, ETC., FOR LAMPS 

When buying, get one or two extra chimneys or burners, also a yard or two 
of wicking. This practice saves delay and annoyance when one lives far from 
the store and kerosene lamps are the only lamps used. If lamps and burners 
are all alike, only one kind of supplies need be kept on hand. 

To trim lamp wicks, slip a piece of old stocking or coarse rag over the middle 
finger and rub smooth all burned parts of the wick. This will do the work when 
shears and uncovered fingers or other methods fail. 

Always fill the lamps in the daytime; be sure your dealer furnishes good 
oil, and above all be sure that he does not use the same measure for kerosene and 
gasoline, as a teaspoonful of kerosene in the gasoline will cause it to smoke— and 
a less amount of gasoline in the kerosene will cause the lamps to burn cloudily — 
and the exchange will spoil a five-gallon can of either. 

Be sure not to fill the lamps too full, as the heat expands the oil and drives 
it out, making the lamp dirty and dangerous. 



A MOTHER'S SUCCESSFUL EXPERIMENT 

Having had two children with very poor teeth, I determined that if I could 
assist nature in any way to give to my third child a good set of teeth, this I should 
do. We started him on MeUin's Food and from that to oatmeal gruel, until he 
was twelve months old, then to the oatmeal and milk with an occasional bit of 
cracker or bread until he was past two years of age. The result is that my boy, 
now six years old, has a perfect set of pearly white teeth, which are the admira- 
tion of all, as well as a great comfort to both the boy and his mother. 

But this was not the only result; he now eats neither pie, fruit, nor melon, 
and but few vegetables — he says because he ate so much oatmeal when he was 
a baby. He lives now principally upon breakfast foods, milk and eggs. The 
result of this is that I am never given one moment's anxiety; no matter how 
hot the weather is, or what is placed before him, he will never eat anything 
that will make him sick. 

But a six-year old boy isn't always content with "baby foods "even if there 
are few other things which he likes. Consequently, I have experimented con- 
siderably in his behalf, and at last know how to make potato chips that will hurt 
neither man's nor boy's digestion. Use full grown, new potatoes, else the chips 
will be soggy. Slice very thin and drop, a few at a time, in boiling lard, turning 
with a fork until they are crisp and of a delicate brown. This may seem tedious 
at first, but make it quick work by having the boy, who loves the chips so well, 
bring in a hod of chips from the wood-pile. 



SEASONING A FOWL 

To improve the flavor of fowl, when seasoning it, add ginger to the salt and 
pepper, and rub this into flesh well. For a change, try putting an onion and an 
apple in ducks in place of the usual bread-crumb dressing. 



88 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

AGE YOUR SOAPS 

My soaps, both kitchen and toilet, last me twice as long as they do most 
folks and this is the secret of it: I buy a half dozen cakes at a time and dry them 
thoroughly in the sun for a week or so, turning them occasionally. Then I lay 
them away in a good dry place and behold! when used, they shed lather satis- 
factorily, but will not wash away like "green" soap. 



TO PROTECT HOUSE PLANTS 

To rid house plants of the small black flies, which hatch from maggots in the 
soil, insert the heads of three or four lucifer matches in each pot. 



KEROSENE AS A HOME REMEDY 

Toothache: Cotton saturated with kerosene and placed in the tooth often 
affords immediate relief. 

Croup: Kerosene has been used in croup with success. It may be taken 
internally and applied externally. 

Burns: Cloths saturated with kerosene and appUed to burns exclude the 
air and bring desired relief from pain. 

Cleansing the scalp: A little kerosene introduced into glycerine constitutes 
an ointment that will speedily remove dandruff and contribute to a clean and 
healthy scalp. 

A HOME WATER PLANT 

A young machinist, wishing to have modern bath conveniences in his new 
cottage which was too far out to be reached by the city waterworks, accompUshed 
his purpose in this way: 

An ordinary, large range tank and force pump were placed m the cellar, the 
latter attached to wall with pipe leading out to large cistern in the yard. The 
tank has small air gauge at bottom to denote the pressure at all times, and a 
check valve at side to which a large bicycle pump is attached when more air is 
needed in the tank. Also fitted with the necessary piping leading up to the bath- 
room and the kitchen sink. 

Thus the compressed air in the top of the tank becomes the required force 
for sending the water above. 

A large bath water-heater, fitted with gasohne burner, is fastened to the 
wall in bathroom over the tub, thus economizing space and solving the problem 
of having hot water at very slight expense, and on a few minutes' notice. 

The tank being placed on end, drain pipe put in the corner, and pump on the 
wall, all complete, takes up but very httle space in the cellar. By pumping up 
to a good pressure, (say sixty or eighty pounds, which takes about five minutes) 
twice a week, the water flows as freely as could be desired, gushing forth from 
the faucets as though pumped by an engine at the motor house. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 89 

SCORCHED FOOD 

When a kettle of meat or vegetables scorches, place the kettle in cold water 
as quickly as possible and the food will not taste scorched. 



SALT FOR THE HANDS 

Try rubbing the hands with dry salt after having had them in water for a 
length of time; afterward rinse them and wipe dry. If used daily after the house- 
work is finished, it will keep the hands smooth, clean and white. 



WHEN BAKING BREAD 

K you wish to bake five loaves, and your oven will hold but four, steam 
one loaf, and set in the oven to dry, after the other bread is baked. You will find 
it much tenderer and better in every way than the loaves which are baked. 



PREVENTS FADING 

A large spoonful of turpentine put in the water when washing dresses or 
waists with delicate colors hable to fade, will prevent fading and will preserve 
the colors fresh and bright. 

TO KILL CUCUMBER BUGS 

My brother has tried the following mixture for the striped cucumber bug 
and other pests, for a number of years, and has never known it to fail. He be- 
lieves that if others would try it faithfully, it would save thousands of dollars 
for growers of melons and cucumbers. 

Three quarts plaster, one pint air-slacked lime, two pounds slug shot, one 
teaspoonful paris green, two teaspoonfuls hellebore. Mix and sprinkle lightly 
over the vines. 



THE DISH-DRAINER AND STERILIZED DISHES 

Few people vmderstand that the best use of the dish-drainer is to avoid 
handhng and wiping dishes. 

Dishes should be washed clean first, then put in drainer and scalded thor- 
oughly on both sides, turning as is necessary. 

Then the drainer containing the dishes should be put on the back of the 
Btove or in the sun until all are dry. 

This method not only saves labor to the housekeeper, but leaves the china 
absolutely clean and sterilized. If glasses are rinsed in cold water and dried in 
the same way they will look as if polished. 



90 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

d'TTIXG BUTTOXHOLES 

In preparing to cut buttonholes in a material that frays easily it is well to 
mark a line the length of hole desired, then stitch close around it on the sewing 
machine before cutting. This gives firmness and prevents frajdng. 



W.\SHIXG },L\DE E-\SY 

Moisten white clothes, rub soiled places with naphtha soap, let soak a few 
hours or over night in cold water. Squeeze a Utile with the hands, or put through 
washer in this water. Wring, and put over the fire in cold water vnlh any pre- 
ferred soap. Scald well, stirring often. Finish in usual way. They will only 
need a thorough rinsing. 

L-\XATIVE PRUNES 

Make a strong concentrated infusion of senna leaves, (five cents' worth will 
be enough for two quarts of prunes) strain this through a muslin cloth and boil 
in the strained liquid as many prunes of good quality as can be well boiled in 
the quantity of infusion. Stew the prunes in the liquid thoroughly, in the same 
manner as if for the table, properly seasoning. 

When well cooked, put in a glass jar, screw the top down tightly, and set 
away in a cool place. Two or three or f om- of these prunes eaten in a day will over- 
come some of the severest cases of constipation. There is no suggestion what- 
ever of the senna in the taste of the prunes, and the effect is most desirable either 
in the old or the young. 

MIXING COOKING MATERIALS 

Get everything needed ready first: pans for cooking, drippings to grease 
them; measure sugar and put into a bowl: if spices are to be used, measure those 
and mis into sugar; break the eggs ready for beating; if raisins are needed, pick 
them over, measure, and cover with hot water. 

See to the fire, wash your hands and begin by putting a sieve over a large 
bowl; measure the flour into sieve; into flour put baking-powder or soda, and 
sift through together, dn.*, even if your recipe says to dissolve soda in hot water, 
milk or molasses, Aiter sifting, mis the dry flour thoroughly with your hands. 
Then rub into flour the quantity of shortening needed, whether butter, lard or 
drippings. Rub till the mixture seems like coarse meal, always with your hands. 
Now add sugar, salt and spices, and mix quickly. Next, grease the pans and wash 
your hands, as the rest of the mixing is done with a spoon. Turn off the water 
from the raisins and dredge with flour. ' Beat the eggs and add to mixture in 
bowl, next the milk, rinsing with it the bowl in wliich the eggs were beaten, then 
put in molasses if that is used. Beat all together with spoon very hard for two 
or three minutes, and lastly, add the floured raisins. 

Every recipe can be put together this way. whether for biscuit, gingerbread, 
or cake, and for the latter especially, it is a great saving of time. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 91 

THREADING NEEDLES 

When it is dusk and the sewing machine needle becomes unthreaded, just 
before the last quarter of a yard is finished, just raise the needle to a threading 
position, slip a piece of white paper or cloth under needle and see how easily you 
can thread it. 



FRIED SQUASH 

Cut a fine-grained, dry, sweet squash into thin slices, pare and fry in plenty 
of butter and season well. This dish will be found an excellent substitute for 
sweet potatoes. 

CARE OF WOODEN BOWLS 

To prevent wooden bowls from splitting, take them when new, before they 
have been touched with water, apply boiling hot linseed oil over the outside 
and top edge, all that will penetrate. 



BOILED LEMONADE 

In making lemonade, boil the desired quantity of sugar and lemon juice to- 
gether, cool and add as much cold water as needed — a great improvement on the 
old way. 

TO PROTECT NEEDLES 

Flannel should not be used in needle books, as it is often prepared with sul- 
phur, which will rust needles. A piece of fine Hnen or chamois leather is better. 



A LINEN LUSTER SECRET 

A Bohemian servant taught me the secret of putting a wonderful luster on 
linen. After the linen had been laundered and dried she put it into a pail of 
boiling water, wrung it out and ironed immediately until dry. As it takes about 
two hours, the process may not be practical except for the " best " linen, but is 
certainly worth the trouble. 

SUBSTITUTES FOR ALCOHOL IN MINCE PIES 

Instead of cider and other alcoholic liquors, use fruit juices for mince pies. 
The juice left from canning strawberries, plums, sour cherries, etc., if sweetened, 
boiled down and canned, makes a rich, delicious moistening for mince meat. 
If raisins and suet in plenty are added to the mixture, it will be rich enough to 
please the most fastidious appetite. 



92 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

COLLARS 

For the girl who is preparing her summer outfit let me say: "Be sure to 
have one dark stock, preferably of black velvet for cool days. Have all the 
fluffy neckwear you care for, but for the occasional cold ' spells ' that are sure to 
come a velvet collar is more 'comfy,' more becoming and more striking. Let 
it be plain; and made to wear with numerous 'top-collars.'" 

One girl friend with a hmited supply of " pocket-book filHng " made her- 
self a half dozen fine Unen top-collars from the Unen of her brother's cast-off cuffs. 
Some of these are hemstitched, others are bordered with the narrowest and 
finest of Valenciennes, while one is edged with fine tatting. 

The Unen is very fine, launders easily and needs no starch if ironed before 
drying, thus making ideal "tops." 

FINE DARNING 

If a woolen dress be darned with a raveling of the same, the place darned 
will hardly show. Use lengthwise thread on plain material. If a mixed goods, 
use thread to match direction of darning. Slightly wear end of thread to make 
threading of needle easier. 

HOW TO TELL YOUNG GAME 

To tell young birds from old ones, when shooting or buying in the market, 
hold them up by the under bill so that the weight will fall on it. If the bill 
breaks the bird is young; if not, it is old. 



BAKING DAY 

After taking bread from the oven, do not wrap tightly in cloth as many do; 
but rub the top of loaves with a httle lard or butter, tip on edge on your kneading 
board so that all possible crust is exposed to the air and if possible place out 
doors or in the wind to cool quickly a few minutes, then remove to convenient 
place and let stand until thoroughly cold before putting away in box or can, 
and you will have delicious, tender crust. 



SETTING HENS IN MID-SUMMER 

Many experienced poultrymen feel that it is almost useless to try to raise 
broods of chicks in very hot weather, so apt are the eggs to spoil before they can 
be hatched. But an old, old lady who has been in the business for years declares 
that perfect success is attained by setting the hen directly upon the ground. 
She scoops out a little hollow in the earth, and places the eggs in it without a 
particle of straw around or beneath them. A shelter is provided, of course. 
She says the hen suffers less from heat or hce, and if the eggs have been fresh 
to start with every one of them will be hatched even in the hottest weather. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 93 

CAKE FROSTING 

One cupful of sugar to each egg; three tablespoonfuls of water to each cup 
of sugar; a pinch of tartaric acid. Boil syrup made of the sugar and water 
vmtil it begins to thicken, pour half of it on the whipped whites, beating thor- 
oughly; cook the remainder of the syrup until it ropes like spun glass, then pour 
into the mixture and beat hard. This icing will not crumble and does not lose 
its freshness. 



TO REMOVE GREASE FROM BROTH 

A good way to remove "eyes" of grease from beef or chicken broth, is to 
pass a piece of brown or white wrapping paper across the top of the bowl of broth 
before using. The grease adheres to the paper. 



MILDEW 

To remove mildew, wet the article with soft water and rub it well with 
white soap, then with powdered chalk; place it on the grass in the sunshine and 
keep it damp with soft water. Next day repeat the process, and in a few hours 
the mildew will disappear. 



DRYING SHEETS 

Much of the labor of ironing sheets is saved if when washed they are hung 
lengthwise on the clothes hne. The selvedge will be found smooth as the rest of 
the sheet instead of "curled up." 

WHITE SPOTS ON TABLES 

To remove white spots from polished tables or other wooden furniture, 
pour upon the spots a few drops of spirits of camphor. Let the camphor remain 
for two or three minutes, then rub with a clean cloth. The spots, otherwise so 
difficult to remove, will wipe off. 

MIX CAKE WITH THE ICE-CREAM FREEZER 

The proper beating of cake was always to me a laborious process, so, by way 
of experiment, I tried the ice-cream freezer. 

Set the butter where it will become soft. See that the cogs of the freezer are 
oiled so that it will run easily. Put the eggs in the cylinder, place the parts 
together as you would for making ice cream, turn the crank a minute or two, 
then open the cylinder and add the melted butter, sugar, milk, flour and baking- 
powder, or whatever ingredients you wish. Adjust the crank and turn for ten 
minutes and you will find the mixture as creamy and fine grained as though 
you had beaten it with a spoon in the ordinary way for half an hour. 



94 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Two cups of sugar, one can of shredded pineapple, juice of three lemons, 
one pint of milk, whites of three eggs and water enough to make one gallon. 
Make syrup of sugar and water and cook three minutes. When cool, add the 
pineapple, lemon juice and milk into which has been dissolved one package 
unflavored Jell-0 ice cream powder. Now see that water enough is added 
to make a gallon, and then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Freeze in the usual 



WASHING CHAMOIS SKINS 

If washed in cold water with plenty of soap and rinsed well in clear cold 
water, the skins will never be hard, but very soft and phable. 



CLEAN KITCHEN SHELVES 

The kitchen cupboard is more easily kept clean and in order if, instead of 
having paper on the shelves, white table oilcloth is used. Cut the oilcloth the 
size of the shelf and paste it securely on with either flour, paste or mucilage. 
The shelf can be wiped off with the dish cloth as often as needed and the cup- 
board is always clean, 

TO MEND OILCLOTH 

Trim the edges of the hole to be mended, place an oilcloth patch beneath, 
and paint the edges on the wrong side. Press down tight against the patch and 
let dry. Paint all worn places, using the same color as the oilcloth. 



FANCY STUFFED DATES 

Into a spoonful or two of jelly (quince is very nice for this purpose) stir some 
English walnuts, finely chopped, a very little crystalized ginger and a trifle of 
sweet mango pickle, all finely cut and well mixed together. Take the stones 
from Persian dates and fill each date with the mixture; roll the dates tightly 
in fine sugar. 



TO EXTERMINATE BURDOCKS 

The hardest thing to contend with in many localities is the burdock. It is 
next to an impossibility to dig them out. If the least part of a root is left in the 
ground it will grow, but if you will take an axe or a sharp butcher knife any time 
in the summer and cut them off level with the ground, and then pour on about 
a teaspoonful of kerosene, the plant will die at once and never start again. 
You can rid a whole field of them in a day. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 95 

THE FAIRY COOKER 

Two pails are needed — one a deep wooden pail, (a 25-cent candy pail is good) 
and a three or four quart granite ware pail with a tight-fitting cover. Pack 
excelsior tightly in the bottom and around the inside of the wooden pail, making 
a nest for the granite pail. A variety of articles, such as oatmeal, rice, macaroni, 
tomatoes, soup, etc., can be cooked to perfection in the cooker if they are cooked 
five or six minutes over the fire in the granite pail and placed at once (while 
boihng hot and tightly covered) in the excelsior nest in the wooden pail, and the 
tops of both pails covered with heavy cloths to keep the heat in Oatmeal boiled 
a few minutes in the evening and left over night in the cooker comes out in the 
morning like blanc-mange ready for breakfast. Macaroni, rice, tomatoes or 
soup, cooked on the stove a few minutes after breakfast and placed in the cooker 
will be found ready for the noon dinner. Meat can also be cooked in this way, 
but may need a second heating after a few hours and returning to the cooker. 
No housekeeper who has once tried the Fairy Cooker will wish to part with it, 
for it saves fuel, needs no watching and cooks to perfection. 



WASHING BLANKETS 

No blanket should be put away after a winter's use without either a thor- 
ough airing, if it has been little used, or a good washing if much used. If care- 
fully washed, blankets, or in fact any woolen clothes, will not shrink a particle. 
Choose a day when the sun is not too hot and there is a good breeze blowing, 
so that the articles will dry all in one day. Make a good suds of hot, soft water. 
Ivory or castile soap, and borax in the proportion of one teaspoonful to every 
gallon of water. Shake the blankets well to remove all loose fuzz and then soak 
in the hot suds for about fifteen minutes, then press the blanket against the sides 
of the tub and squeeze and press well with the hands. Never rub on a wash- 
board or use soap directly upon the article. 

The first water must be well squeezed out, not twisted, hence a wringer is 
better than the hands. Rinse carefully in one or even two waters as hot as the 
first but containing no soap. A little borax is allowable, however. Again run 
carefully through a wringer and pull corners well into place and hang where the 
air will blow directly through it. When about half dry, pat the water out of 
the lower edge, take down and rehang with the lower side up this time. 

Another cleansing way is to use ammonia in the hot water instead of white 
soap and borax; in other respects the process is the same. 

Do not hang blankets out of doors in freezing weather. Dry upon clothes- 
bars about a stove or over a furnace. And do not try to wash blankets when you 
are doing the general washing. They are enough in themselves for any woman. 

To my thinking no woolens should be ironed, but simply pulled and patted 
into shape. 

Blankets, when not in use, should be neatly folded and placed between 
sheets of soft paper in chests, trunks or upon shelves with bags of camphor to 
keep out the moths. Refold in new creases two or three times during the year, 
and air frequently. 



96 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO SAVE BROOM 

If you will put a tack in the end of your broom and tie a string on that 
and hang it up so it will not touch the floor, it will not wear out so quickly. 



CLEANING WALL-PAPER 

Take the inside of a two-pound loaf of rye bread two-thirds done, add two 
ounces of naphtha and a tablespoonful of salt, knead together until it becomes 
a dough, then apply to wall paper. 



GREASE ON THE STOVE 

If you spill grease upon a hot stove, cover the spot at once with a thick layer 
of ashes; this will absorb the grease, so you will not be offended by ios odor 
while burning, and a little later you can brush away the ashes, and none of the 
grease will remain. 

SYRUP FOR SWEET PICKLES 

To seven and one-half pounds fruit, three and one-half pounds of sugar 
and one pint of vinegar add cloves, spice, cinnamon (stick) and mace to suit 
taste. Boil until it makes a thick syrup, then add the fruit and cook until 
tender. This is nice for peaches, pears, cherries and Damson plums. 



SLIPS FROM TEA ROSES 

Slips from tea roses can be easily started. Plant deep and place a glass jar 
over them; leave them so for three months, when they will be nicely rooted 
and can be transplanted 

A CHEAP FLAVORING 

A spray of green peach-tree leaves, dropped into a kettle of milk, when 
it is put on the stove, and allowed to stay until the milk comes to a boil, imparts 
a most deUcate pistachio flavor. This is a war-time expedient, used by a Vir- 
ginia housekeeper, which is even now found very convenient, when the vanilla 
bottle is empty, and there is no opportunity to go to a drug store. 



SODA FOR CLEANING KETTLES 

To remove black from the bottoms of kettles, pans, etc., apply common 
Boda with a damp cloth. It will instantly clean them and keep them bright. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 97 

AN IMPROVED SINK PUMP 

When the sink becomes clogged, I simply let some water run in it, until about 
two or three inches deep, then lay the palm of my hand flat over the drain hole 
and force the water out by working my hand up and down, quickly. The 
pressure forces all obstructions through the drain pipe. Then pour boiling water 
through to melt all grease. The above advice was given by a plumber, and has 
proved good. 



TO CLEAN A WATCH 

Take the works out of the case. Allow them to lie completely submerged in 
benzine from eight to twelve hours. If possible, start the watch going, the action 
of the wheels will work the dirt out. After removing the works, allow the benzine 
to evaporate before placing them in the case. This is harmless to the most 
delicate works. I have cleaned my own many times. 



KENTUCKY CORN PONE 

Sift one quart meal. Salt to taste, pour over meal boiling water, enough to 
make a stiff dough, stirring all the time. Dip hands in dish of cold water and 
mould dough in pones. Bake in greased bread pan, in hot oven, till well-browned. 



MUD STAINS ON BLACK 
To clean mud stains from black dress goods, rub with a slice of raw potato. 



A BATCH OF LITTLE HELPS 

Borax and water will brighten oilcloth. 

Beeswax and salt will make rusty flatirons clean and smooth. 

A httle soda added to boihng vegetableo will hasten their cooking and add 
to their tenderness. 

When you wish to beat eggs quickly add a pinch of salt. 

A good cleaner for gold or silver jewelry is a teaspoonful of ammonia in a 
cupful of water. 

By adding a few drops of ^'inegar to the water when poaching eggs they will 
set more quickly and perfectly. 

A little salad oil gradually added when mixing mustard for the table is a great 
improvement. 

A cloth dipped in the white of an egg will brighten leather chairs and bindings. 

A small piece of charcoal in a pot of boiling cabbage absorbs the odor. 

A strong solution of nitric acid in an ounce of soft water will whiten piano 
keys. 



98 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

LIGHT DOUGHNUTS 

When making doughnuts of sour cream or buttermilk, put in enough soda 
to neutraHze the acid in the milk; then to each quart of flour put in one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar and see how fluffy your doughnuts will be. 



THE BOY'S RUBBER BOOT 

When the small boy comes in with his rubber boots full of snow or other 
dampness, stuff them with old dry newspapers and leave several hours. The 
papers will absorb all the dampness, leaving the boots perfectly dry. 



OILING THE CLOCK 

When the clock begins to lose time or rebel at doing its work it needs a 
lubricator. Put a little coal oil in a small vessel, set it inside the clock and close 
the door. As the oil evaporates, it will moisten the machinery and overcome 
the trouble. 

A small clock may be laid over a saucer or plate containing a little oil and 
enclosed in a tin bucket. 



GIFT FOR A BRIDE 

If you are wondering what you can give that dear friend of yours who is to 
be married soon, that will really be of use to her, try this: Gather together your 
best recipes for making all kinds of good things to eat. Be sure to choose only 
those which you, yourself, have tested. Buy a well-bound blank book and copy 
these recipes as neatly as possible. It is best to group them, as in any recipe 
book. If you like, paint or sketch the word "Recipes" on the cover. This little 
book will always prove an acceptable gift to a housekeeper, young or old. 



MENDING CRACKS IN STOVES 

Use two parts good wood ashes and one part salt; moisten with water 
enough to make a thick batter and apply quickly. 



FOR SHOE NEATNESS 

My laced boots and shoes never looked neat because the tongue was con- 
tinually shpping to one side. The idea came to me to cut two slits about a quarter 
of an inch long and nearly a quarter of an inch apart in the end of the tongue 
close to the top eyelet (on either side) so the shoelace can be run through it 
before passing into the top eyelet. Now my shoe tongues are always in place. 
My friends who have tried this method are warm in praise of it. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 99 

FOR WHOOPING COUGH 

Chestnut leaves steeped in a porcelain dish or bowl are a sure specific for 
whooping cough, breaking it up quickly. Children like to drink it, it is so pleasant. 
One man said it cured him of quick consumption. 



TO CAN WINTER VEGETABLES 

Prepare corn, peas, or beans the same as in cooking for the table. Cover 
them with cold water and let them boil five minutes. Pour them in a colander 
to drain, then fill your jars, packing them tightly. Fill the jars with boihng 
water, to every cupful of which a teaspoonful of salt has been added. Seal the 
jars tightly and steam four hours. This recipe never fails if correctly followed. 



TO KEEP CIDER SWEET 
One cupful of whole mustard seed thrown into a barrel of sweet cider will 
preserve the sweetness of the cider. 



COPPERAS FOR PLANTS 

Some time ago I read the statement that copperas would make plants bloom 
in profusion. I asked a florist about it and he told me that copperas is a power- 
ful fertihzer but that it ultimately poisons the earth, and so must be used carefully. 
It is possible that the potted plants which we sometimes buy and which never 
look the same afterward have been forced in this way. 



MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING 

The most delicious frosting you ever ate is made by boiling maple sugar till 
it forms a soft ball in water; turn it slowly on a well-beateu white of an egg and 
beat till cool. 



SEASONING VEGETABLES 

In the southern country kitchen it is the custom usually to "season" the pot 
of cabbage, string beans, turnip greens, or parsnips, by cooking a generous slice 
of fat pork (jowl or side meat) with them. The vegetables are "seasoned" all 
right by this method, but unfortunately they impart their own taste to the 
meat, and this is not reUshed by many. Cook the meat in one pot and the vege- 
tables in another. When the meat is about done, pour off its grease and juices, 
add them to the vegetable pot and cook the vegetables a few minutes longer. 
It will be as well seasoned as though the meat were cooked with it, and the meat 
will not be disagreeably flavored. In addition several kinds of vegetables may 
be seasoned with the one piece of meat, by dividing the juices and grease. 



100 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



NUT FOOD FOR HENS 

Nothing helps so much toward making hens lay in the winter time as nuts. 
Two pans heaping full of walnuts and butternuts, cracked, are given to a flock 
of twenty-five hens twice a week, and how it makes them "shell out" the eggs! 
Remember we live on a large farm, and all the nuts cost us is time to pick them 
up in the fall. 

FOR CATARRHAL COLDS 

Dissolve one teaspoonful of powdered borax, one teaspoonful of saleratuf* 
and one teaspoonful of pure glycerine in one pint of tepid water, and inhale every 
ten minutes vmtil relieved. This is a positive and speedy remedy for catarrhal 
colds. 

THE AIR OF A SICK-ROOM 

A few drops of oil of lavender poured into a glass of very hot water will 
purify the air of a room almost instantly from cooking odors; the effect is espe- 
cially refreshing in a sick-room. 

PAPERING OVER WHITEWASH 

When wishing to paint or paper a wall that has been whitewashed, the 
wall should be first washed with hot vinegar. Then apply a coat of thin glue 
with a broad paint brush. After this dries, the wall may be either papered 
or painted. 

BREAKFAST FOODS 

Cook cream of wheat, or any similar wheat food, in a steam cooker as the 
directions on box cover state, then put in dishes and while the food is still hot 
place a piece of butter the size of a walnut in each dish, and sugar. Now stir 
the butter and sugar well in the food and serve. (You may cream if you wish, 
but it is not necessary.) I find this a great improvement in wheat foods. 



WASHING BLANKETS 

For one pair of blankets dissolve one-half bar of soap; when thoroughly 
melted, add one tablespoonful of borax and two of ammonia. Add the mixture 
to a sufficient quantity of water (already softened with one tablespoonful of 
borax) to cover two blankets. Let the blankets remain in the suds one hour 
without rubbing, rinse thoroughly and hang up without wringing; this prevents 
harshness and shrinking. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 101 

ZINC TO CLEAR CHIMNEYS 

Possibly some who use soft coal may not know that a handful of zinc scraps, 
or if these cannot be conveniently procured, a piece of pure zinc equal in size, 
thrown upon the fire once a week, will cause the soot that so rapidly accumulates 
to loosen its hold and fall down, due to some chemical action. 



USEFUL HINTS 

When attending a party or entertainment where the rubbers are removed, 
fasten together with a clothespin marked with your name. 

Put sugar in the paste to make wall-paper stick to kalsomined walls. 



THE HOME DRESSMAKER 

In cutting a waist lining lay the pattern across the cloth (not on bias), and 
it will not stretch as when cut lengthwise of the goods. 



CINDER IN THE EYE 

I suffered for a week from a cinder in my eye which had become embedded 
and at times seemed to be out. I tried all the simple remedies without relief, 
when finally, without faith, I tried a loop of horse hair run up under the lid and 
out it came. It saved me a journey and doctor's fee and was painless. I have 
since recommended it in obdurate cases and it has never failed. Properly 
cleanse the hair before using. 

TO SAVE LAUNDRY WORK 

Try making baby's little aprons by the bishop pattern, front and back the 
same, so that they are reversible. Then gather the neck upon a rubber tape 
(about one-half yard) to slip over the head. They are easy to make, slip on, wash 
and iron, besides lasting longer than when the wear all comes on one side. 

Also, try using a pair of old stocking legs to protect the sleeves while doing 
up the morning work. They save washing, too. 



FROZEN POTATOES 

Potatoes which have frozen can be used and be as good as ever if not allowed 
to thaw. If they thaw the least bit they are worthless. Pare them in cold 
water and drop one at a time in boiling water. 

In the spring when the potatoes are sprouted or withered, pare them early 
in the morning so they may stand several hours in clear, cold water. Then put 
them over the fire in cold water and you will have good potatoes with no old taste. 



102 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

WASHING FLUID 

Dissolve one ounce salts of tartar, one ounce salts of ammonia and one 
can Babbitt's potash in five quarts of lukewarm water. Add half a cake of borax 
soap shaved fine. Clothes should be dry when put in boiler and should boil 
twenty minutes. When taken out of the boiler and rubbed for a few minutes, 
it will be found that all dirt and spots will be removed with very slight effort. 
This fluid does not injure the clothes. 



ESSENTIAL OILS 

Oils from which perfumes and toilet waters are made may be easily made at 
home by taking two tablespoonfuls of pure glycerine and placing the fragrant 
part of the plant, whether it be blossom, leaf or stem, in it. Put in only as much 
as the oil will well cover, set it on the back part of the range or where it will 
keep quite warm, and stir and press it often for twenty-four hours; then press out 
the parts and put in fresh ones and treat in the same way for twenty-four hours 
longer, and repeat the process twice more, when you should have a very strong 
oil of whatever plant you have used. This oil is used exactly as the expensive 
oils you buy are used in making all toilet waters and perfumes. It never gets 
rancid and is so inexpensive that anyone may have all they want of it. 



ABOUT EGGS 

Many housewives do not know that their failure at times to beat the whites 
of eggs to a light, white foam is due to the fact that the dish used contained 
moisture other than that of the eggs. Always dry the dish thoroughly before 
using, as the slightest moisture upon its surface will interfere with the whites 
becoming light. 

When separating the yolk from the white of an egg, break the shell by 
striking gently against the edge of a dish. The yolk is retained in one portion 
of the shell while the white is allowed to drop over and fall into the dish. Trans- 
fer the yolk from one half shell to the other several times and after each change 
run the finger along broken edge of shell to cut the white away. By the use 
of the finger the entire white is separated without danger of the yolk being drawn 
over the edge and broken. 



LET YOUR HENS SET 

You should not try to keep a hen from setting when nature wills otherwise. 
A hen will not want to set unless she is fat, and as she seldom leaves the nest 
for food during the period of incubation, she needs the flesh for nourishment 
and to keep the eggs warm. 

If you do not wish to have chickens, give her porcelain eggs and let her set 
for two weeks; then shut her up for a few days. After this she will be in a better 
condition and will lay more eggs than she would have done if prevented from 
setting, nor will she desire to set again until she becomes fat. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 103 

CANKER IN THE THROAT 
For cankered throat and mouth, tea leaves are the best thing. 



ZINC-COVERED KITCHEN TABLE 

One of the most convenient and useful pieces of kitchen furniture imaginable 
is the kitchen table covered with zinc. The old-time oilcloth covering will be 
discarded after one trial of the zinc. 

It is so easily cleaned. Just wash with soap and water, and occasionally- 
clean with paper saturated with kerosene to give it the gloss and smooth surface 
desirable. Never need think whether dishes are hot or cold as with oilcloth. 

To make the table, take a good plain table for the purpose, and if the man 
of the house is at all handy he will have just what is wanted with little trouble. 
The zinc must be flattened smooth on top, then turned down at edge, hammering 
to make it turn, then turned under and tacked. This leaves a smooth, easily 
cleaned edge. 

SURE CURE FOR CROUP 

At the first symptom of croup, which is always a sharp, shrill cough, let the 
one who has the care of the child take it into bed with her, placing her open 
hand upon the sufferer's chest, the thmnb and fingers lightly yet firmly clasping 
the tlu-oat, and keeping it in this position until the cough loosens, which it will do 
in a very short time. 

I have used this remedy repeatedly and have never failed to rout the dread 
disease. It is so simple that people hesitate to try it, but one fair trial will 
convince the most skeptical of its efficacy. 



ODORS 



Do you know that the fishy smell on knives and forks after salmon and other 
oily fish have been served, can be removed by rubbing a shce of lemon over 
them? That to remove the odor of onions from the breath you should eat 
parsley; from the hands rub with celery? That a pleasant household deodorizer 
is made by pouring spirits of lavender over bi-carbonate of ammonia? Put it in 
a wide-mouthed bottle and cover tightly when not in use, when you wish to use 
it open the bottle and let it remain so for a few minutes; this mixture is also 
good to inhale in case of severe headache. Do you know that you should never 
have groceries or provisions having strong odors near the flour barrel? Nothing 
absorbs odors quicker than flom-. That if you like the odor of violets about 
your clothes, have a good-sized piece of orris root put in the wash boiler where 
the clothes are boiled and a deUcate perfume will be the result? That when a 
knife has been used to cut onions, if you wipe it with a damp cloth, then rub 
thoroughly with dry salt, the objectionable odor will have entirely disappeared? 
That milk and butter should be kept away from strong odors? 



104 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

CURE FOR HICCOUGHS 

I have put in twenty-five years as a druggist and chemist and during that 
time have had occasion to treat a large number of cases of hiccoughs. The 
following mode of treatment will give an almost instant cure provided the case 
has not run more than six or eight hours. Stop up both ears tightly with the 
forefingers, then drink (from the hands of a second party) five or six ounces of 
water, taking very small swallows, and twenty chances to one the hiccoughs will 
disappear before the last swallow has been taken. It is absolutely necessary to 
plug up both ears air-tight for this treatment. 



WASHING LACE CURTAINS 

Before putting the curtains to soak, stitch a strip of muslin or cheesecloth 
around the edge of the curtain and you will find the scallops will be round instead 
of pointed as when you pin directly through the fabric. 



SOGGY PIE-CRUSTS 

When the pie-crust is prepared brush the lower crust with the beaten yolk 
of an egg and sprinkle with bread criunbs that have been grated. Tliis is 
especially fine for fruit and Uquid pies. 



MENDING GRANITE WARE 

When your granite pans and kettles begin to leak, instead of throwing them 
away, try mending them with putty. I used a kettle all simimer for canning 
fruit that I had mended in this way. Be sure the putty is fresh and do not 
use the vessel until it is thoroughly dry. 



BEST WAY TO COOK BACON 

Put the bacon, sliced thin, on a common toaster and place the toaster in a 
baking pan a httle longer than the toaster; put tliis in a hot oven and as it cooks, 
the fat drains into the pan. 

A CURIO CABINET HINT 

A cupful of water placed on each shelf of the cabinet in which curios are 
kept will provide sufficient moisture to prevent the carved ivories, woods, shells, 
and the hke from cracking. The water may be kept in one of the curios, and thus 
be inconspicuous. In a furnace-heated house this is a wise safeguard. Change 
the water every few days. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 105 

CHICKEN CHOLERA 

Take equal parts of pulverized alum, rosin, saltpeter and red pepper. Feed 
one tablespoonful in three pints of scalded meal until the chickens are well. 



MASHED POTATOES 

When mashing potatoes, after the milk and butter are added and they 
have had their final stirring, add a small teaspoonful of baking powder and stir 
well and see how light they will be. 



FROZEN ONIONS FRIED 

When I found some large onions had frozen, the head of the house informed 
me that frozen onions were very sweet and nice when fried. I thought so, too, 
when I had eaten them. I cut them into thin slices, salt and pepper, then fry 
brown in hot butter. 



MAKING FRUIT BUTTER 

I would like to suggest a very easy way of making pear butter, peach, etc. 
After the fruit is prepared and sweetened, put the same in the oven. In this way 
it needs only occasional stirring. It will cook down and keep just the same as 
butter made on the top of the stove and is made with a great deal less work. 



CLEANING SEWING MACHINES 

Take the machine apart, boil the parts in soda water, replace, and oil well. 
Or, with gasoline, flood every oiling place on the machine, run it rapidly, repeat 
if necessary, wipe off with a cloth, then oil with machine oil. 



BEEF POT ROAST 

To make an ordinary piece of beef into a fine pot roast, have the kettle 
very hot, and brown the meat on all sides before adding the water, which should 
be boiling. Cook slowly till tender, making a brown dressing in the kettle after 
the meat has been removed. 



A SILK HINT 

When stitching thin silk, or any goods inclined to pucker, place a strip of 
paper on the under side and stitch through with cloth. The needle cuts the paper, 
and it is easily pulled away, leaving the seam free of any inclination to pucker. 



106 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

OATMEAL COOKING 

A piece of butter the size of a pea, dropped into the oatmeal pot, will keep 
it from boiling over. 

STEAM OUT SPLINTERS 

When a splinter has been driven into the hand it can be extracted by steam. 
Fill a wide-mouthed bottle nearly full of hot water, place the injured part over 
the mouth and press it slightly. The suction will draw the flesh down, and in a 
minute or two the steam will extract the splinter, also relieve the inflammation. 



ICE FOR THE INVALID 
A small piece of ice held in the mouth is often gratifying to a sick person, 
and in order to have some at hand and thus save the attendant a trip to the 
refrigerator try the following: Take quite a deep bowl and cover with a piece 
of flannel depressed to form a hollow about half the depth of the bowl. Tie this 
in place. Now fill this with bits of ice broken to about the size desired and cover 
with another piece of flannel. This can be kept in quite a warm room for hours 
without melting; while, if the pieces freeze together, a stout pin will readily 
chip off a piece. 

TO CATCH FURNACE DUST 

Many persons make the mistake of closing the registers before shaking the 
fm-nace fire. Instead, leave them open, place wet cloths over them, and the 
dust that arises from the ashes will cling to the cloths. If the registers are closed 
the dust will settle underneath, and when they are afterward opened puffs of 
dust will rise and spread over the contents of the rooms. 



STAINS ON MARBLE 

To remove stains from marble mix equal quantities of powdered chalk, car- 
bonate of soda and pumice-stone powder, and sufficient liquid cloudy ammonia 
to form a soft paste; spread evenly over the marble and leave it for two or three 
hours, then scrub thoroughly with soft soap and hot water and wipe with flannel 
cloth. Should the stains still be visible, they should again be covered with paste, 
which should remain for a day, when the marble should again be scrubbed. 



CLEANING COMBS AND BRUSHES 

To clean combs and brushes use gasoline, which removes all oil and does 
not impair the bristles, as ammonia, borax and such things do. 



LITTL E HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 107 

ANOTHER DUST SUGGESTION 

A party of ladies, helping to decorate a friend's home for a wedding, chatted 
about "this thing and that," and drifted at last to the subject of house-cleaning. 
One said she so much dreaded getting the dust from the top of her wardrobe. 
I remarked that I kept a newspaper on the top of mine — that it not only kept 
the dust out of the smallest crack, but could also be replaced at any time by 
a clean paper. 

A PANCAKE "POINTER " 

The disagreeable smoke which usually fills the house while pancakes are 
being baked may be greatly lessened in this way: To grease the griddle use a 
slice of raw turnip on the end of a fork, and dip in melted grease. The smoke 
is absorbed by the turnip. 

FOR BURNS 

Take equal parts flour and cooking soda, and water to make a thick paste; 
bind on the burn quickly and it will relieve smarting and prevent blisters. 



MENDING GRANITE WARE 

I have been delighted to find that I could mend my granite or agate basins 
by chipping off the enamel so that a small circle of the iron base is exposed 
around the hole to be soldered — which I do by using the sharp corner of a chisel. 
I then sandpaper the iron and give it a coating of zinc solution and proceed as 
with tin. 



YOUR MATTRESSES 

Housekeepers who have to have mattresses made over every few years 
may save this expense by having at hand a large darning needle or a straight 
sacking needle and some upholsterer's cord or twine — a small tightly twisted 
cord — and whenever a " tacking " is broken, use your needle and twine right away. 
Put the needle through the same place as the original tacking, and fasten with 
the leather pieces, pulling the string tight and fasten securely in a square knot. 
You will be surprised to see how much longer your mattress will last and it will 
not grow " lumpy " and uncomfortable to lie on. 



MOTHS IN CARPETS 

To destroy moths in carpets, take one-half cup salt dissolved in hot water, 
saturate edge of carpet, lay on cloth and iron till dry. 



108 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

KNOW YOUR PLANTS 

February is the month when floral catalogues are sent throughout the land, 
and every flower-lover who reads the descriptions and sees the beautiful illustra- 
tions of new varieties of plants is tempted to buy them. As a rule these novelties 
are all that is claimed for them, if they are properly cultivated; but often they are 
purchased by people who know nothing of their nature and needs, and who give 
them little care, and then, because results do not equal those described by the 
florist who spent time, study and expense on them, he is accused of misrepre- 
sentation. 

Be sure, before buying any plant, that you know what its needs are as to con- 
ditions of soil, temperature, fight and other essential points, and that you can 
supply them. If this is not possible — well, let someone with money to spare do 
the experimenting, while you grow those you understand; for a thrifty plant of 
the commonest kind is more ornamental than a sickly specimen of the rarest 
novelty. 

One source of failure and disappointment is found in the floral articles pub- 
lished on every hand, and this is true for several reasons. One is that many 
of them give the name of the writer, but no hint as to whether their home is in 
Maine, or in Texas; another is that when such information is given, the reader 
pays no attention to it, and a third is that many a writer is not writing from 
an experimental knowledge. 

A writer living in the Southern states may describe to the most minute 
particular how success was achieved in growing a certain class of plants, but the 
one living in the North who follows those instructions is foreordained to failure. 

In the Southland, where an early spring and a late fall give a long season in 
which plants may grow from the seed and complete their natural period of bloom, 
there is no need to take time by the forelock as must be done farther north, 
where the flower-lover, if wise, will have many a seed-pan tucked in among the 
window plants before this month ends. 

The seedling plants which have been transplanted two or three times before 
being put into the open ground have a start which insures a fairly long season of 
blooming before being spoiled by frosts. 

Fuchsias and other wood-stemmed plants which have been wintered in the 
cellar will show signs of life, and should be brought, gradually, to the light and 
warmth. If they need pruning (as most of them will to secure symmetrical 
form) do it at once, thereby forcing new branches to start and greatly increasing 
the number of blooming points on the plant. 

Look over the cannas, dahlias and other stored roots, and if any show signs 
of decay remove them, for even one or two that are bad now means that all 
touching them will be spoiled by planting time. 



SOAP ODDS AND ENDS 

Save your small bits of soap in a low jar; when the jar is full, reduce to small 
shavings and add a teaspoonful of your favorite toilet water. Pour boiUng 
water over this and let it stand; when settled pour water off and behold! you 
have a dainty toilet soap. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 109 

NEW WINTER SALADS 

No dinner, however unpretentious, is complete without a salad. This dish, 
•when properly concocted, is at once an appetizer, an aid to digestion, and the 
connecting Unk between the heavier courses of the dinner proper and the des- 
sert. The housewife who caters wisely is alive to this fact, and is ever on the 
alert for something wholesome in the way of a salad which is at the same time 
a little out of the ordinary, in order that there may be no tiresome monotony in 
the favorite dish. 

Various mixtures are employed for marinating salads — a rich mayonnaise, 
the plainer French dressing, or a simple dressing of oil and lemon juice — the 
kind depending wholly upon the nature of the salad. 

Mayonnaise: A good dressing for general purposes, which possesses the 
further virtue of its keeping qualities to commend it, is made as follows: 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs till smooth; add one cup of sugar, one table- 
epoonful each of salt, ground mustard and black pepper, a dash of cayenne and 
one-half cup of cream; mix thoroughly in order that all the ingredients may be 
incorporated. Bring to a boil one and one-half cups of vinegar, add one cup of 
fresh sweet butter and bring again to a boil, then pour it over the other mixture; 
stir well, and when cold, bottle. Keep in a cold place. 

Italian Chicken Salad: Take a sufficiency of the white meat of cold fowls 
and pull into flakes; then pile it mound fashion in the center of a shallow salad 
dish and pour over it a rich dressing. Have ready two fine heads of lettuce 
crisped in ice water; strip off the outside leaves, shred the inside and arrange 
neatly in a ridge around the chicken. On top of the lettuce place a chain formed 
of the whites of three eggs cut into rings. Serve a portion of the lettuce with 
each helping of chicken. 

Spiced Salmon Salad: Stand a can of salmon in a pot of boiling water and 
boil hard for twenty minutes; take out can, open, and drain off the oil; then turn 
the fish into a deep bowl, stick around it a dozen cloves, sprinkle lightly with 
salt and pepper and cover with vinegar. Let stand six hours. Drain off the 
vinegar, dress the fish with mayonnaise or any rich salad dressing, and arrange 
for individual serving in rings of tomato jelly. Garnish with thin shces of 
lemon. 

Oyster Salad: Have ready a head of fine lettuce crisped in ice water, select 
the best leaves and arrange for individual serving in pretty salad saucers. Also 
have ready one quart large oysters plumped and chilled. Marinate the oysters 
with a salad dressing, let stand five minutes, then arrange in the lettuce cups, 
dress with lemon juice, garnish with sliced lemon, and serve with cheese straws. 

Baked Bean Salad : Turn a sufficient quantity of cold baked beans (canned 
ones may be used) into a salad dish; add a minced onion and one tablespoonful 
of tomato catsup; stir lightly, dress with mayonnaise and serve. 

Ham and Vegetables: Heap two and one-half cups of ham in the center 
of a shallow salad dish and pour over it a mayonnaise dressing; around the ham 
arrange a border of cold-boiled potatoes cut into cubes, and on the outer edge a 
border of pickled beet cubes. Garnish with fringed celery. 

To fringe celery stalks, cut them into two-inch lengths; stick several coarse 
needles into the top of a cork; draw half the stalk of each piece of celery through 
the needles several times, then crisp in ice water. 



no LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

Swedish Herring Salad: Soak two herrings over night; boil one dozen 
medium-sized potatoes in their jackets; when cold, peel and cut into dice; chop 
a large onion fine; bone, skin and dice the fish, season with pepper and add enough 
vinegar to moisten. Transfer the mixture to a large, flat dish, pour over it a 
cup of rich, sweet cream that has been thoroughly chilled, garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs and sliced beets, and serve at once. 

Sweetbread Salad: Soak one pair sweetbreads in cold water one hour, then 
drain and put into boihng water to which has been added one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt and two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Cook slowly for twenty minutes, then 
plunge at once into ice water. When firm and white, cut into slices, mix with one 
cup of chopped celery, marinate with French dressing, stand on ice until thor- 
oughly chilled, then serve in nests of crisped lettuce. Dress with mayonnaise. 

Lamb Salad: Dice a sufficiency of cold boiled lamb; add half the quantity 
of chopped olives; wash, crisp and arrange for individual serving the inside leaves 
of a head of lettuce. Arrange the meat mixture in the cups, dress with salad 
dressing and garnish with pickled capers. 

Hot Cabbage Salad: Shave the cabbage fine and put on to cook in just 
enough water to prevent burning. When tender, add half a cup of cream or 
rich milk; bring to a boil, season with salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of butter 
and add enough vinegar to give it the desired flavor. Let boil up, add a beaten 
egg, stir well and serve. 

Fruit Salad: Arrange alternate layers of pineapple and bananas in a salad 
dish, sprinkling each layer with sugar and grated nutmeg. Turn over all a glass 
of sherry, and serve. 

INK STAINS 

To remove ink stains from cotton or linen: Rub the spot as soon as possible, 
thoroughly, with lemon juice and salt; place over a bowl and turn boiling water 
on it until the bowl is half full or more, keeping the goods taut. Now turn 
a saucer over it and let steam five minutes, then rub and wring out. Repeat 
the process until removed. If a trace is left it will disappear in the wash. 



KEEPING RIBBONS IN PLACE 

To keep a child's hair ribbon in place: Place a small elastic band (as a se- 
curity for the ribbon) around the hair several times; then under one portion of 
band draw through one-half of ribbon's length, and bringing ends forward tie 
in the usual manner. 



fro::en eggs 

In cold weather it often happens that a nest of frozen eggs are found hidden 
away in the haymow. Pour boiling water over them and set them aside till the 
water is cold, and on breaking the eggs, the yolk will be soft, and beat up like an 
egg that had never been frozen. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 111 



WHEN COOKING SAUERKRAUT 

To prevent scenting up the whole house when cooking sauerkraut, cook it in 
a covered dish in the oven. We use a bean jar. 



TO REMOVE RUST 

_ I had much trouble with the tank in my kitchen stove. Water would rust 
in it so I could not use it. It became coated with layers of rust. I boiled 
washing soda in it for a few weeks, and cleaned it so perfectly that it has never 
rusted since ; that was several months ago. I boil my discolored tinware in sal- 
soda water. They come out silvery-white. 



USES FOR A MEAT CHOPPER 

I find my meat chopper useful for many things other than chopping meat. (_^ 
Use the vegetable plate and chop seeded or seedless raisins for cake; green 
tomatoes for piccalilli; apples for mince pies; nut-meats for cake, ice cream 
or candy, or lemon for pie. And farmers' wives will find that rendering lard is 
made easy by using the meat chopper instead of a knife to cut the lard. With 
the small plate in the chopper, put through dried bread or crackers, dried celery 
leaves, sage and parsley. If these are put away in fruit jars they will keep per- 
fectly for a long time. Horseradish is as good as though grated 



SOME NEW WAYS TO COOK WINTER VEGETABLES 

The only vegetables the great majority of housewives have at their service 
during the winter months are those which may be safely stored or preserved by 
canning. Consequently, they must depend for variety in this feature of the 
daily menus, not so much upon changes in the vegetables themselves as in the 
methods of cooking and serving them. By so doing, monotony, which is the 
great destroyer of the appetite, is avoided. 

The following recipes may be of some use to the housewife who is on the alert 
for new ways of cooking the same old things, thereby beguihng her family into 
believing that they are being treated to a change of diet: 

Potatoes a la Italienne: Select a sufficient number of fine potatoes of 
imiform size and bake done; then cut a round from one end of each and care- 
fully scoop out the inside; mash well and mix with one-third the quantity of 
boiled rice; season the whole with grated cheese, cream, salt and pepper. Fill 
the shells with tliis mixtm-e, rounding up the tops, dot with bits of butter, return 
to the oven and brown. Serve without delay. 

Sweet Potato Puff: Steam six medium sized sweet potatoes without paring; 
when done, peel, mash and mix with one tablespoonful of melted butter, one 
teacupful of hot cream or rich milk, one teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, sugar, 
salt and pepper to taste; then beat the whole until smooth and fight. Whip 



112 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and fold into the potato mixture; heap 
high in buttered ramequin, and stand in a quick oven until puffed high. Serve 
immediately without re-dishing. 

Mock Cauhflower: Remove the outside leaves from a firm white cabbage 
of medium size and drop it into boihng water; boil fifteen minutes, then change 
the water, adding fresh boiling water. Cook tender, drain in a colander and stand 
aside until cold. Chop fine, add two eggs well beaten, one tablespoonf ul of butter, 
three of cream and salt and pepper to season. Mix all together, turn into a 
buttered baking dish, and brown in the oven. Send at once to the table. 

Turnip Balls: Wash and peel firm turnips ; then cut with a vegetable scoop; 
drop the balls into boihng water, to which a little sugar has been added, imtil 
tender, taking care to preserve their shape. Just a few minutes before taking 
from the fire add a little salt ; drain, cover with drawn butter sauce and sprinkle 
hghtly with minced parsley. Serve very hot. 

Tomatoes with Minced Chicken: Butter a baking dish; put in the bottom a 
layer of cold cooked chicken or veal minced ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and bits 
of butter; then put in a layer of canned tomatoes from which the juice has been 
drained, and sprinkle lightly with sugar; repeat the layers, seasoning as directed, 
until the dish is full ; then cover with brsad crumbs, dot thickly with bits of butter, 
and bake covered until cooked through. Remove cover and brown quickly. 
Serve with tomato sauce, using the tomato liquor for making it. 

Corn Oysters: To one cup of canned corn add three eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately, one cup grated bread crumbs, three-fourths of a cup of sweet 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt and a little white pepper. Mix well, and drop 
from a teaspoon into hot fat to more than cover, and fry a nice brown. 

Fricassee of Parsnips: Scrape or pare the parsnips and, if large, cut into 
halves. Boil in milk until tender, then cut lengthwise into bits two or three 
inches long, and simmer for a few minutes in a sauce made of two tablespoonsful 
of the broth, one-half cup of cream, a bit of mace, one tablespoonful of butter 
blended with the same quantity of sifted flour, and salt and white pepper to season. 
Serve as soon as taken from the fire. 



TO DETECT CHALK IN MILK 

Dilute the milk in water; the chalk, if there be any, will settle to the bottom 
in an hour or two. Put to the sediment an acid, vinegar for instance, and if 
effervescence takes place, chalk is present in the milk. I have tried this a num- 
ber of times, and have been able to bring the guilty parties to justice. 



A MAGIC MITTEN FOR NUMB HANDS 

About fifteen months ago, my fingers, and finally my hands, sometimes 
one, sometimes the other, would become numb at night. This numbness seemed 
to be caused by a nervous tension in the fingers. The mitten was a chance dis- 
covery and gave instant relief. Make the mittens the exact size of the hand, with 
pasteboard fronts and cloth backs, without a thumb. They will stay on nicely 
without tying. They hold the fingers straight while one is sleeping. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 113 

TO POLISH A STOVE 

Put a quantity of stove polish into a dish, add equal parts water and turpen- 
tine and a few drops of varnish, mix this well together; apply with a small paint 
brush. Let the polish dry, and then rub briskly with a stove brush. This will 
give a glossy polish that will last from one spring until the next. This should 
not be used on the top of a cook-stove that is in use, for the odor would be offensive 
when the polish was first put on. It is an excellent pohsh for stoves that are not 
used through the summer. 



THE KITCHEN WORK-STOOL 

At any of the large department stores a "work-stool" can be purchased 
for about eighty-five cents. The one in my kitchen is in almost constant use. 
"I can't sit down to wash dishes," so many women say; but that is because the 
chair they use is too low, and the water runs up their sleeves. Also, " it looks 
lazy." The stool should be about eight inches higher than an ordinary chair 
and the water will not run up the arms, and as one is already half standing, it 
is easy to rise to attend to other duties, so one does not look lazy. 



AN EXCELLENT DRY-CLEANER 

By the use of dry Ivory soap and gasoline, one may obtain results which he 
may never attain through the use of gasoline only, especially where the article is 
both grease-spotted and dusty or grimy from ordinary use. Thoroughly rub 
the soiled spot or garment with the dry soap. Allow to stand for several hours 
or over night. Then sponge with gasoline and rub dry with a clean cloth. In 
sponging, begin at outer edge, even better a short distance from spot, rub lightly, 
gradually working to soiled place, and using more gasohne, always rubbing the 
right way of the goods. In this way one can usually avoid the ugly rings so often 
encountered in cleaning. Be sure there is no water in the gasoline or there will 
be spots. Where the gasoline is perfectly pure, this method cleans the most deli- 
cate goods beautifully. 

FUEL ECONOMY 

Take all pieces of slate from coal cinders, sprinkle well with cold water, and 
they will bvu"n like fresh coal. 

A PIE IDEA 

I find it a great help, when mixing pie pastry, to cover several extra tins; set 
them away in a cool place; then when I want a fresh pie all I have to do is fill 
the crust, bake it, and I have a pie with about half the labor of the old way. 
This does away with mixing pastry every time you want a pie. 



114 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



PREPARING BEEF TONGUES 

Buy the tongue, asking the butcher to trim off the roots. Wash it thor- 
oughly, then take a stone crock deep enough to hold it, rub it (the tongue), all 
over with molasses, about two tablespoonfuls for one tongue; next sprinkle 
a very httle powdered saltpeter on both sides; last, put in a dish and cover thick 
with dry salt. I use table salt. Turn it over every day for a week; longer won't 
hurt it. Keep it cool. To finish, take an empty barrel, put in the bottom an 
old pan with some ashes in it and make a smoke of cobs, lay a stick across the 
top, run a wire through the top of the tongue and suspend as high as you can 
in the barrel; cover with some old carpet or burlap and keep the smoke going 
a day. Then you can hang it up in the cellar, and cook it v/hen you please. 
If you and all your guests don't say it is delicious cut thin for tea, or for a sand- 
wich, you will be the first to say otherwise. It will pay you to try it. A smoked 
tongue costs seventy-five cents in market, hard to get and a poor, dried-up 
thing. You can omit the smoke if you choose. 



MENDING BROKEN CHINA 

When china is broken do not put it in water. Tie firmly together, put in a 
basin, cover with skim milk, set on the back of stove and boil one hour. Let it 
stand in the milk until cold and it will never come apart. 



HOW TO BEHEAD A BOTTLE 

When far from town and in need of jelly glasses take some bottles or glass 
jars; saturate a thick cord in turpentine, tie cord around bottle below neck and 
ignite cord with a match. Let cord burn till a Httle cHck is heard. If directions 
are followed, the bottle or jar will be cut off evenly where the cord passed around 
it. 



COOKING HINTS 

Put a tablespoonf ul of vinegar in the water before poaching eggs and they 
will remain whole. Cook graham mush closely covered ; it cooks quicker and tastes 
better. Add a little sugar — about the same quantity as you use of salt — when 
frying potatoes; they brown nicer and taste better. _ When roasting a fowl 
lay in roasting-pan breast downward; the white meat is much softer and more 
juicy. 

TO FRESHEN RIBBONS 

Wash ribbon in warm soap-suds, wring out, and iron at once with hot iron; 
when ironed, take in hands and crumple and crush; iron again and you will 
be surprised at the soft, glossy ribbon you will have. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 115 

ONE FOR BOSTON 

The best way to make codfish fine and smooth for fish-balls is to run it 
through the meat grinder, as the grinder will take bits of skin and tough 
pieces that are ordinarily wasted. The first time this was tried in one family 
the fish balls were pronounced "the best we ever had." 



REMEDY FOR CATARRH 

In a country where nine-tenths of the human family are afilicted with 
catarrh in some form, a simple and inexpensive catarrh cure should be one of 
the greatest of "little helps." If those so afflicted will try for sixty days the 
old "German Remedy" — which consists simply of washing the feet each night 
in cold or cool water, rubbing dry with a coarse towel and putting on a pair of 
fresh, clean stockings every morning — they will as heartily believe in it as I do, 
although the remedy is so simple most people will not try it. 



WASHING CHAMOIS SKIN 

In washing chamois to keep it soft and pliable, rub it vigorously in lukewarm 
water, using any brand of soap you wish. Then rinse twice in same temperatm-e 
of water and lay on clean cloth to dry. The principal thing is to rinse all the 
soapsuds out before drying. 

TO REMOVE RUST FROM CLOTHING 

While rinsing clothes, take such as have spots of rust, wring out, dip a 
wet brush in oxalic acid, and rub on the spot, then dip in salt and rub on, and 
hold on the hot tea kettle and the spot will immediately disappear; rinse again, 
rubbing the place a little with the hands. 



TO WASH PRINTS 

To wash a dark percale or sateen dress — put two or three quarts of flour 
starch into sufficient water in a tub to wash it nicely. Rub well, rinse and hang 
in the shade to dry. Enough starch will remain in the goods to make it appear 
like new when ironed on the wrong side. 



TO POLISH GALVANIZED WARE 

To clean galvanized iron (as buckets, tubs, etc.) dampen a cloth in kerosene 
and rub until the dirt disappears, then polish with old papers, and they will look 
as well as new. 



116 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO SAVE EGGS 

Stir your cakes the same as usual except that you leave out the eggs. After 
your baking powder is added and tins greased, the very last thing before placing 
them in the oven, stir in one tablespoon of clear snow for each egg you would have 
used. Your cakes will be light and tender. 



CORNSTARCH IN CHOCOLATE 

For a dainty cup of chocolate or cocoa to serve with wafers: Take a pint 
each of milk and water, two squares of Baker's chocolate and sugar to suit the 
taste. Dissolve two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch in a little cold milk, and stir 
into the boiling chocolate. Serve a spoonful of whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored with vanilla, in each cup. 



MORE LEMON HINTS 

Hot lemonade, taken at bedtime, is good to break up a cold. 
The juice of one lemon in a goblet of water, without any sugar, taken at least 
half an hour before breakfast, will clear a bilious system with great efficiency. 
Lemon juice will also take out mildew. 



CELERY LEAVES 

To have always on hand a supply of celery leaves for soups, trim off the green 
leaves before serving the celery, wash, drain and place in a warm oven for a few 
hours; when thoroughly dry, crush them and put in a tin can with cover. A 
pinch of this powder gives a more delicate celery flavor to pressed meat and stews 
than does celery seed. 

REMEDIES FOR BURNS 

When badly burned by concentrated lye, bathe the part at once with vinegar. 
In a second, reUef is obtained, and pain is almost banished. Syrup or molasses 
applied to a burn from fire, is soothing as well as excluding air. While common 
soda is good for excluding air, it does not give the relief that syrup does. 



FOR IRONING DAY 

When ironing, if your flatirons do not heat fast enough, try placing a dripping 
pan over them, and they will get hot much quicker. 

Put all common towels, cloths, etc., through the wringer, set close. This 
zoangles them nicely. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 117 

INEXPENSIVE CLOTHES RACKS 

Saw barrel in three equal parts, then wrap with clean strips of cloth and take 
a loop in the center to hang up by. These make excellent racks for shirtwaists 
and skirts to keep them in shape and from wrinkhng. 



CURE FOR EAR-ACHE 

Place a pipe-stem against the patient's ear, putting a thin rag over the bowl 
to prevent ashes scattering and blow the smoke into the ear. 



TO WASH LINOLEUM 

Never scrub with a brush, but wash with tepid water and a dash of soap 
powder. Rinse with clean water and when dry rub with furniture polish. 



SAWDUST FOR GRIMY HANDS 

If the wives of those men whose occupation necessitates the handling of 
grimy and greasy machinery, or other things that make almost hopelessly dirty 
hands, will provide some fine sawdust to be used at " wash up " time, they will 
find it more than a "little help"; it will save time, soap, towels and laundry 
bills. 



CLEANSING A WHITE NET VEST 

I have made a very valuable discovery in the preservation of the dainty 
articles of a woman's wardrobe. At a recent reception I wore, for the first time, 
a dress with a white net vest. The result of an accident left my dainty front 
bespattered from top to bottom with tomato juice. I feared the use of any 
liquid in the process of cleaning lest it should leave a stain on the snowy white- 
ness of the fabric, and could resort to nothing strong on acount of the delicate 
texture, so I determined to apply a thick paste made of talcum powder and 
water. After this had remained on the spots over night and was perfectly dry, 
I brushed it off with a clean, dry tooth brush. To my amazement the spots 
showed signs of disappearing. Encouraged in the effort, I repeated the appUca- 
tion. With each brushing the stain grew more obscure. I persevered through 
five applications, at the end of which time my dainty garment appeared in its 
pristine freshness, with no reminder of the calamity which had overtaken it. 

The success of this experiment suggested to me some ugly spots which de- 
faced a white voile skirt. Although these spots were of a year's standing and 
other remedies had failed to remove them, it took only one application of this 
talcum and water paste to remove every vestige of stain. This last mentioned 
victory was so remarkable that I was induced to write to the friends of the 
National, that they too, might share in the benefit of my discovery. 



118 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

FOR BAKED APPLES 

When baking apples, run the corer only part way through, leaving a bottom 
to the hole as it were. Into this little cup place the sugar, spice and a bit of 
butter without danger of their running through into the pan, and they will cook 
into and flavor the whole apple. Besides, the fruit will keep its shape better than 
when the entire core is taken out. 



THE UNEXPECTED GUEST 

The unexpected guest for dinner sometimes creates commotion to the in- 
experienced housewife. Here is one way to be always ready. The prepared 
soups of today — such as Campbell's — are served by simply adding hot water. 
Keep some on hand all the time. When the unexpected guest appears simply 
add soup to the bill of fare, and it doesn't take a minute to do it. 



WHEN MAKING JELLY 

If jelly is boiled long after adding the sugar, the mixture will leave a coating 
on the sides of the kettle, as it boils down or evaporates, which may be scorched 
by the heat of the stove and will destroy both the flavor and color. "This I learned 
from experience after being at a loss for some years to know why my jelly did 
not always have the fine flavor and beautiful color I sometimes obtained. To 
make perfect jelly, clear fruit juice should be reduced one-third, and the juice 
obtained by cooking the more sohd fruits should not only be boiled away one- 
third, but also long enough to evaporate the water used in cooking the fruit. 
Measure the juice and turn it into a clean kettle, add an equal quantity of granu- 
lated sugar, and boil gently five minutes, not allowing it to rise in the kettle. 
Jelly made thus will be perfect in consistency, flavor and color, providing the 
fruit used is fresh and just ripe — not over-ripe. 



BABY'S PLAY DRESSES 

Make the babies' play dresses of dark material, very plain and with three 
buttons and buttonholes in the bottom hem, buttons in front and buttonholes 
behind. These are buttoned between the legs and keep the underclothes clean 
or may be used as aprons over white dresses. These are better than overalls, 
especially on small children, as it is much easier to give the child necessary at- 
tention. 



PARING PINEAPPLES 

When preparing a pineapple for the table, try slicing it first and then paring 
it. In this way, with a good paring knife, you can remove the eyes, without 
waste. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 119 

CURE FOR IVY POISON 

Three grains of hyposulphite soda to one ounce of water, eight drams to 
one pint. 

If apphed soon as inflammation appears, the cure is complete in less than two 
hours, and even when neglected until pustules and suppuration set in, it gives 
immediate relief, and recovery is rapid. 

As hyposulphite of soda is perfectly harmless, being that used by photo- 
graphers in fixing negatives, it can be used much stronger than proportions above. 
In some cases a stronger solution is best. This is also good for prickly heat. 



TO KEEP THE WORKS OF YOUR WATCH CLEAN 

Open the front case of watch and with a soft match, cut chisel shaped at 
the end, rub a little vaseline all round the seat of the case where the lid fits. 
Close the front, open the back and treat in the same way. Only a very small 
quantity is required, just enough to grease it thoroughly all round. This will 
make your case dust and water proof at those points. At the end of two or three 
months open case and if much dirt has collected take a match, cut in the same 
way, and scrape it all off clean and give it another coating of the vasehne. This 
is the only known plan to keep a watch clean where the cases do not fit perfectly 
close. 



TO KILL BUGS ON PLANTS 

I have been following a suggestion made to me, and find that saltpeter 
(prepared by dissolving one tablespoonful in a bucket of water) will not only 
kill bugs on vegetation but seems to act as a fertilizer to the soil. Spray and then 
repeat two days later. Two sprayings proved sufficient for the worst cases 



TO CLEANSE COMBS 

I lately learned such an easy and simple way to cleanse hair combs. Put 
a teaspoonful or so of baking soda in a wash basin, pour on hot, or good warm, 
soft water. Throw in combs, let lay a httle while, then take small brush and 
cleanse; soon they are clean and sweet as if new. 



BOTTLING CIDER 

To bottle cider, to keep it perfectly sweet indefinitely: Scald the cider, 
and when just at the boiling point, put into self-sealing bottles, fruit jars or 
common bottles. If the latter ,cald the corks, and cover with beeswax or 
resin. The bottles must be filleu to overflowing, and sealed or fastened immedi- 
ately. It must be bottled not later than two weeks from the mill, or it will not 
keep so well, and not much earher or the flavor will not be as good. 



120 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



A FEW SUGGESTIONS 

Before potting slips, cut the end of the slip, and insert an oat. It will 
root better. 

After seeds are sown in the ground, moisten well and place a cloth or paper 
over them. The ground will keep moist and the seeds will sprout soon. 

If your pen is rusty hold it in the flame until hot and then dip in cold water. 
The pen can then be cleaned. 

When troubled with ants, lay a few pieces of wormwood around, and they 
will soon disappear. 

If cake or cookies have become dry and hard put a slice of bread in the jar 
and notice the change. 

SHORTCAKE CRUSTS 

When making shortcakes, instead of baking the desired thickness, then 
splitting, my way is to bake in two layers. Spread butter over the upper side 
of the lower layer, and on top of this place the other one; then when baked they 
come apart easily. This is much better than splitting the hot crust. 



PLANT PESTS 

At this time of year (late June) when every green growing thing is attacked 
by various bug-beetle-worm pests, all garden people are at wits' end to find a 
universal spray. The following is the first "sure thing" we have used: One 
pint quassia chips; one pint home-made soft soap; one teacupful kerosene oil. 

Steep the quassia chips several hours in one gallon of water (hot). Add one 
gallon of hot water to the soap, and stir it until a strong "suds" is formed, add 
to this the quassia solution, then the kerosene oil and beat until thoroughly 
emulsified. To this now add two gallons of water, making four gallons in all. 
Apply this with any spraying machine or syringe, and it will drive every eating 
thing from plants and trees — both for indoor and outdoor plants. 



DRIVES OUT MOSQUITOES 

Mosquitoes are overcome by kerosene. They will drop into a cup held under 
them ; or a cloth saturated with it and hung on the head frame of the bed will 
drive them away from the occupants of the bed. 



MUD FOR A SPRAIN 

Apply a poultice of cold, wet earth to a sprain, changing it often so that 
ti may be kept cold. This draws out the inflammation in a few hours and re- 
lieves the pain. Then a few rubbings with alcohol or any common liniment will 
make the joint as strong as ever. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 121 

HOW TO KEEP CREAM 

During the hot weather many find it difficult to keep cream from souring, 
even in the refrigerator, unless they use it very soon after it is bought. Most 
of us who do not have cows, buy one-half pint at a time. Take this quantity 
as soon as it reaches the house, put in a bowl, add a heaping teaspoonful of po">v- 
dered sugar, six drops of vanilla and soda the size of a small bean. Whip until 
foamy, but not thick. Put on ice and it will keep a week even in hot weather. 



SOME WAYS OF SERVING COCOA 

By the cup: Put one-half teaspoonful Bensdorp's Royal Dutch Cocoa 
and one teaspoonful granulated sugar in a clean dry cup, mix both well, add 
one-half cup boihng water, stir until cocoa and sugar are dissolved, then add 
one-half cup rick milk, sweeten to taste, and cocoa is ready. This is much 
improved by boiling one minute. 

By the quart: Mix thoroughly four teaspoonfuls Bensdorp's Royal Dutch 
Cocoa and the same amount of granulated sugar, add one pint hot water, stir 
until all is a smooth syrup and boil three minutes, then add one pint rich milk 
and bring all to a boil. Whipped cream when served is a great improvement. 

Directions for making iced cocoa: Four ounces Bensdorp's Royal Dutch 
Cocoa, six ounces granulated sugar, mix cocoa and sugar well, add one quart 
boiling water and stir until all is a smooth syrup. 

For serving by the glass: Half fill glass with shaved ice, add one or two 
ounces syrup, a little sugar (say one-half teaspoonful), fill glass with half milk 
and half water and shake well. 



A HINT FOR WASHING DAY 

In very cold weather, it is always imprudent for a woman to hang out the 
clothes while overheated and tired from doing a large washing. This can be 
obviated by hanging them out the next day. 

Take each piece and shake well, then drop it into the basket, straightened 
out as much as possible, with the corners which you wish to pin to the line hang- 
ing over the edge of the basket. When all are in, in the order in which you wish 
to hang them up, fold the corners that hang over the edge of the basket all to- 
gether back on top of the part already in the basket. Now, cover all up smoothly 
with a heavy, damp towel, and set the basket of wet clothes in some cold place 
where there is no danger of freezing. This gives you an opportunity to cool off 
gradually while cleaning up the rooms, putting away tubs, etc. 

In the morning, remove the towel, turn the ends of pieces back over the edge 
of the basket, and there will be no trouble in hanging them all out, without 
getting chilled or suffering from aching fingers, and the clothes will have plenty 
of time to dry, which they do not have in short winter days, if hung out after the 
washing is done. 

Dry flannels in the house if weather is cold enough to freeze them. 



122 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

MENDING A LEAD PIPE LEAK 

How to stop a pinhole in a lead pipe: Take a tenpenny nail, place the 
square end upon the hole, and hit it two or three light blows with the hammer, 
and the orifice is closed as tight as though you had employed a pliunber to do it 
at a cost of a dollar or more. 



LACE INSERTION 

Now that so much lace is used many may be puzzled about inserting it. 
Cut the material in the desired shape, and baste the insertion firmly, just where 
you would like it to be, turning corners neatly, and where necessary to curve or 
roimd it, draw the little cord in the edge or gather on a thread where it can be 
easily shaped as desired, then stitch on the inner edge of the narrow margin, 
after which slit the material in the center of lace, turning back the edges, cutting 
down to enough for a tiny hem, then stitch again on the outer edge of the margin. 
On thin material use No. 200 cotton which is sufficiently strong for all purposes, 
and will launder any number of times, with no frayed edges. 

For goods that are not to be washed the edge need not be turned under for 
the second stitching, simply turned back, stitched and cut down closely, leaving 
a very neat appearance. 

A COTTAGE CHEESE HINT 

In making cottage cheese, sometimes after draining the cm-ds through a 
cheesecloth bag, the curds are tough and lumpy. When such is the case, run 
v/ them through the food chopper and they will become light and delicate. Then 
add cream, salt and pepper, and you will have a dainty dish. Sometimes P 
make tiny balls and roll them in chopped nuts; sometimes I add pitted cherries 
and make a salad of it; sometimes I thin it with cream and add caraway seeds, 
and again I add little onions. 

A TRICK OF THE OVEN 

If you wish to bake something quickly in a range with no fire started, get 
together a collection of fine wood or chips, start your fire, and let the top lids of 
the stove get very hot, put these in the oven on top of the grate, put the thing 
to be baked upon these hot lids and these will furnish bottom heat, while the quick 
fire will almost at once furnish top heat. The baking is very rapidly done with 
little heat in the house. 



REMEDY FOR SEA SICKNESS 

Takebromideof soda, four drams; bromide of ammonia, two drams; pepper- 
mint water, three ounces. Mix well. Use for three days before journey begins. 
It is not needed afterward. Take a teaspoonful in wine glass of cold water be- 
fore each meal and also at bedtime. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 123 

TO BEAUTIFY THE LAWN 

By digging away a strip of sod, about three or four inches wide, from the 
walks and around the trees and filling in the furrow thus made with fine white 
sand or gravel, one can mow the grass off evenly and in consequence the lawn 
is greatly improved and beautified. If the sand is put in suflBciently deep, no 
weeds or grass will grow through and thereby, at the same time, a clean effect 
will be brought forth. 



TO REMOVE NUT MEATS 

Pecan and hickory nut meats can be easily removed without breaking, by 
pouring boiling water over the nuts and letting them stand until cold. Then 
crack with a hammer, striking the small end of the pecan. 



SIMPLE REMEDIES 

California cure for headache. Lay the head upon a pillow and strew the 
pillow with fragrant roses. Another cure for the same is to walk backwards. 

Lavender, when applied to face and hands, will keep away mosquitos in this 
western land. 

For malaria, put lemon juice in all the water you drink. 

A tablespoonful of melted butter, swallowed, will cure croup and hoarseness. 
Melt over a lamp and take when necessary. 

For cancer, take violet leaves, (the garden variety is better than the wild 
violet) steep them in water, drink the hot tea thus made (a wineglassful several 
times a day), and also apply cotton wool soaked in the hot tea, over the cancer. 
It has cured very bad cancers, and such a simple remedy ought to be known and 
remembered. 



SWEETENING SOUR FRUIT 

Put a pinch of soda into rhubarb or other sour fruit and only half the usual 
quantity of sugar will be needed. 

TO CLARIFY COFFEE 

Instead of using the white of an egg to clarify coffee, drop a pinch of salt 
into the coffee pot before adding the water, and you will have clear, bright, well- 
settled coffee. This was learned from an old hotel keeper and will not fail. 



TO KILL WEEDS 

If one will when the dew is on, sprinkle a little fine salt on the leaves of 
any plant he wishes to kill he will be both surprised and pleased at the result. 



124 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SALT FOR BLACK ANTS 

In certain seasons the large black ants become very troublesome, getting 
even into the ice-box if their advance is not checked. Judging from the number 
of appUcations I had last year for "something that will drive away the pests 
with no danger of poisoning the family," it is not very generally known that com- 
mon salt freely sprinkled where they gather will drive them away, yet such is 
the case. Try it and be convinced. 



• WHEN MAKING BREAD 

An experienced friend taught me how to make bread up at night and thus 
save time and labor. Two years ago I conceived the idea of putting the dough 
into the pans during the night, instead of punching it down as was generally 
necessary. Since then I have always followed this method, and find it much 
easier than my neighbors' who make their bread up in the morning. During 
the winter, of course, it takes more care to have the room heated properly, but 
during warm weather "it works like magic." When my family was smaller, I 
found the easiest time for baking pies or cakes was before breakfast when the 
fire was clear. That baking time now has to be given to packing dinners for four 
hungry school children, though even yet I snateh time to bake their cakes in 
miiffin pans while the breakfast is imder way. 



COOKED FROSTING 

To make cooked frosting soft and creamy, put only enough water in the 
sugar to dissolve it; add a pinch of cream of tartar or baking powder. Cook 
quickly, watching it closely until it will spin in a thread from the spoon. Beat the 
white of an egg vigorously with an egg-beater for at least three minutes. Beat 
while pouring the syrup in and for a few minutes afterward. Your frosting 
will rarely fail to be creamy. 

CARE OF NEW BOOKS 

Lay the book back downward, on a table or smooth surface. Press the front 
cover down until it touches the table, then the back cover, holding the leaves in 
one hand while you open a few of the leaves at the back, then at the front, alter- 
nately pressing them down gently until you reach the center of the volume. 
This should be done two or three times. Never open a book violently nor bend 
back the covers. It is liable not only to break the back, but to loosen the leaves. 



WASHING WHITE SILK 
In washing white silk use cold water to keep it from turning yellow. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 125 

HOME-MADE PHOTO PASTE 

Not many people know that the finest paste for mounting kodak pictures is 
made with ordinary starch not cooked quite so much as for stiffening. I know 
a photographer who mounts his most expensive pictures this way. 



TENDER OMELETTES 

A little boiling water added to an omelette as it thickens will prevent it 
being tough. 

USES OF BORAX 

Borax is a bleach and will prevent clothes turning yellow. 

Borax fixes colors. 

Borax added to starch gives a superior gloss to the clothes. 

Borax relieves hoarseness. 

Borax cures sore throat. 

Borax preserves the teeth and heals the gums. 

Borax exterminates ants, bugs, and roaches. 

Take a solution of warm water and borax and it will cleanse hair brushes 
and combs perfectly. 

Borax dampened with a little water and rubbed on the scalp cures dandruff. 

A pinch of borax added to warm hard-water softens it. 

Borax used when boiUng clothes whitens them more than any other washing 
powder. 

HANGING UP CLOTHES IN COLD WEATHER 

Before hanging up clothes in cold weather, take each piece and shake out, 
and then take hold with both hands of the end to be hung on the line, and drop 
into the basket, putting in the pieces just as you wish them hung up. It is best 
to hang sheets and tablecloths by the hem to save them whipping out. If they 
must be left out all night, at dark roll them over once or twice on the line and 
pin securely; in the morning unroll them. If a sudden wind starts up they can- 
not be damaged. Another help is to have mittens made of white canton flannel. 
Lay your hand on the cloth and work around with pencil, leaving half an inch for 
seam, stitch around with machine and they are done. 



RELIABLE PIE CRUST 

If hot water is used in making pie crust, it will not bend outward and allow 
the contents of custard or other pies containing a soft filling to run out in the 
oven. Put the soda and cream of tartar in the flour, stir the hot water into it, 
and add melted butter or lard. This pie crust is easily worked and is light 
when baked. 



126 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



CURES FOR HICCOUGHS 

Give one tablespoonful pure lemon juice at frequent intervals, as required; 
it has cured when doctors have despaired. Another cure is to order the sufferer 
to keep his tongue out of his mouth to judge of his condition, and not to withdraw 
it until directed so to do. 



A MISCELLANY BOOK 

A scrap book of clippings from newspapers and magazines will be found 
of great help to the housekeeper. These may be recipes, Uttle helps for the 
household, or anything along a literary hne. The housekeeper of modern life 
has use for all, and if easily accessible, they will be "just the thing" frequently. 



MENDING STOCKINGS 

The stockings which I buy for my six-year-old are much too long. I cut 
off the tops to the right length and lay the upper parts away. When he has 
worn out the knees, as boys are apt to do, I sew on this new top and have another 
pair of stockings as good as the first, as one pair of feet will outwear several 
legs. 



WINTER CARE OF BEETS 

In the fall we put our beets in a barrel in the cellar with alternate layers of 
earth and beets so they will keep in fine condition. Then any time during the 
winter when work is not so pressing, and as fast as the fruit jars become empty, 
we can fill them with beets and have them as we want them; they are excellent 
when canned. 



FRUIT AND BAG SHOWERS 

Like "Linen Showery," the "Fruit Shower" is very acceptable to the pros- 
pective bride. Held at the home of one of her girl friends, each one brings a can 
of fruit or a couple glasses of jelly. In this way the bride has quite a start in 
fruit, without taxing anyone much. The "Bag Shower" is the same plan, each 
one making a bag of some kind, from a laundry bag to a dainty chamois bag 
for jewels. 



MAKING DRAWN-WORK COLLARS 

Do not use embroidery hoops ; instead, after pulling the threads, sew firmly 
to a piece of stiff cardboard, then cut away the card from beneath the threads 
and you have it ready for work and firmly and equally stretched. Do not re- 
move until entirely finished and your collar will be perfect. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 127 

COLD-STARCHED IRONING 

Rub the starched pieces with a rag that has been wrung out of water that 
contains a few drops of kerosene. You will be surprised how much easier they 
iron. It will also give a nice gloss. 

MEAT-PIE CRUST 

If, in making meat pie, the crust be left thin enough to drop from a spoon 
instead of rolling, better results will be obtained. 



A HELP FOR THE BOYS 

Let the mothers try knitting or crocheting a loop on the wrist of each mitten 
to hang it up by. 

HOW TO FIND THE RIGHT SIDE OF CLOTH 

To find the right side of woolen dress goods of smooth surface, hold the goods 
level with the eyes between them and the light; if it looks fuzzy it is the wrong 
side. The right side is always singed smooth by the manufacturer. 



RELIEF FROM ASTHMA 

Persons suffering from asthma may be greatly relieved by smoking sumach. 
Gather the green leaves while fresh, dry them, and smoke in a common clay pipe. 



TO PREVENT OIL STAINS 

Put blotting paper in the holder imder a bracket or hanging-lamp, and the 
oil will go on further. 

WASHING AN EVENING SHAWL 

Many beautiful evening shawls are ruined by home washing, and frequent 
dry cleansing is costly. If washed by the following method, an umbrella shawl 
will retain its original appearance. 

Soak the shawl in a warm suds of white soap. Do not rub soap on the shawl. 
Squeeze the suds through it, but do not wring. When clean rinse in a weak suds 
of the same temperature as the first water. Throw in a heap on a clean sheet to 
dry, turning occasionally. When dry, pin in shape on a sheet, then sprinkle with 
cold water to raise the fluffy fiber. 

A knitted or crocheted shawl so washed will appear new. 



128 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO REMOVE COCOA STAINS 

To remove cocoa stains from table linen or other fabric, soak the article in 
cold water, when the discoloration will quickly disappear. 



AN INSECTICIDE FOR ROSES 

Save coffee grounds, dry them out, and put around your roses with equal 
parts of soot. It is a good fertilizer and insecticide. 



WHEN WASHING MUSLINS 

To keep delicate colored prints and muslins from fading when washing, soak 
in salt water for half an hour. 

TO RENEW PATENT LEATHER 

First rub with a linen rag soaked with olive oil or milk, and polish with a 
dry, soft duster. Cream and linseed oil in equal parts are a good pohsh for patent 
leather boots. 



AMMONIA'S USES AND ITS ANTIDOTE 

A little ammonia in tepid water will soften and cleanse the skin. 

Spirits of ammonia inhaled will often relieve a severe headache. 

If the color has been taken out of silks by fruit stains ammonia will usually 
restore the color. 

One or two tablespoonf uls added to a pail of water will clean windows better 
than soap. 

A few drops in a cupful of warm water, applied carefully, will remove spots 
from paintings and chromos. 

To brighten carpets, wipe them with warm water in which has been poured 
a few drops of ammonia. 

Keep nickel, silver ornaments and moimts bright by rubbing with woolen 
cloth saturated in spirits of ammonia. 

If one of you has swallowed ammonia accidentally, make haste immedi- 
ately to drink lots of water or skim milk or both, at frequent intervals, while 
someone is stirring up a half-cup of starch and cold water, (two or three heaping 
teaspoonfuls of starch) — give a teaspoonful or so, every fifteen minutes. 

The reason for this: First, the water to "flush" the stomach, thus diluting 
the ammonia so it will not find lodgment and burn the stomach; then the starch 
water forms a coating on the suffering gullet which the ammonia burnt hke fire, 
and alleviates this distress until the doctor gets there. Otherwise your patient 
will likely be asphyxiated long before other help than yours can reach him. It 
will take quick work. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 129 

TO RENEW TARNISHED GILT FRAMES 

Take sufficient flour of sulphur to give a golden tinge to one and one-half 
pints of water, and boil in it five onions; strain, and when cool apply to the 
parts that require restoring, with a soft brush, and it will come out as good as 
new when dry. 

TO RENDER HARD WATER SOFT 

Dissolve one ounce of the best quicklime in a bucket of water; then stir 
all thoroughly in a barrel of water, and as soon as it settles the water will be soft 
and fit for use; the lime, having united with the carbonate of hme, which makes 
the hard water, will be all deposited. 



TO DRIVE A NAIL EASILY 

A person trying to drive a nail through a piece of seasoned oak an inch and 
a half thick found it impossible to do so until the suggestion was made that 
he grease the nail. It then was driven easily without bending. 



CARE OF PATENT SHOES 

Patent-vici shoes, or dancing pumps, should be stuffed tight in the toe with 
tissue paper, cotton or old cloth, after taking off, and rubbed with a little vaseline. 
If cared for in this way they will not crack, even if kept for an entire season. 
Vaseline is a splendid preserver of any kind of leather, but should be applied 
sparingly so it will not leave a greasy appearance. 



A STOVE POLISH 

Mix the stove blacking with vinegar, to the consistency of cream, add pinch 
of sugar, put on with a brush and polish with old newspapers; it will give a beauti- 
ful and lasting polish. 

TO CLEAN SILVER 

Put one-half pound sal-soda in eight quarts water; when at a boiling heat dip 
in the pieces of silver, immediately wash in soapsuds and wipe dry with a piece 
of cotton flannel. 



DON'T PEEL PIE PLANT 

In cooking pie plant, do not peel it, as the red skin gives a rich color to 
the sauce. 



130 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TURKISH DELIGHT 

Take one ounce sheet gelatine and soak in one-half cup water for two hours. 
Take one pound granulated sugar, dissolve in one-half cup water and when at 
boiling point add the gelatine. Flavor with one orange, juice and rind, and one 
lemon, juice only. Chopped nuts improve it. Boil all steadily for twenty 
minutes. Dip a tin in cold water, pour in the liquid and when cold cut in squares 
and roll in confectioner's sugar. 

HINTS ABOUT CUSTARDS 

In making a custard of any sort, the whites of the eggs are not necessary. 
Use the yolks to thicken the milk, in the proportion of one yolk to a cup of milk. 
The whites of the eggs may then be used as a meringue for the top of the custard. 

To prevent a baked custard from wheying, place the dish containing the 
custard in a basin of water while cooking. 

To prevent a boiled custard from curdhng, do not cook more than two or 
three minutes after adding the eggs to the milk and do not add salt until you 
have removed it from the stove. 

Scald milk with which to make custard pies. 



BAKING SWEET POTATOES 

After washing sweet potatoes thoroughly, grease the outside with fried meat 
grease before baking. They will be found a great deal more juicy, and the skin 
can easily be removed. 

DESTROYING AN ODOR 

The odor that clings so persistently to a utensil in which fish or onions have 
been fried may be dispelled by placing in a hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes 
after washing and drying. 

CANKER CURE 

To each fluid ounce of sweetened gum-arabic mucilage, add very carefully 
and mix intimately two drops of creosote. Take about one teaspoonful in the 
mouth and thoroughly gargle, taking half a teaspoonful internally three times 
a day. A cure greatly prized by the late Dr. Ira K. Warren. 



WHITE SPOTS ON FURNITURE 

For white spots on highly polished furniture, apply common baking soda, 
dampened. Allow it to remain on the spots a short time, then rub firmly and the 
spots will disappear. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 131 

JEWEL CUTTER'S CEMENT 

Add to equal quantities of resin and beeswax foiir times as much of marble 
dust or sharp fine sand. For home use take the best resin and bleached wax, 
for coarser uses the lower qualities are just as effective. Melt the resin and 
wax, add the sand or marble dust, and mix well, pour out in greased pans, mark 
with an oiled knife into sticks, and cool. 

This cement will quickly mend anything not exposed to heat, alcohol or 
benzine. Apply hot and while still warm remove excess, and smooth edges. It 
will fix lamp collars, door, cane and knife handles, tighten loose tools, mend leaks 
in boats, etc. 



TO MAKE SUGAR SYRUP 

Fill a clean bottle with granulated sugar and pour in clean cold water, 
filtered preferred. Let stand over night and add more water until bottle is full, 
and all the sugar dissolved. C'lor and flavor to suit. The use of syrup instead 
of sugar for tea and coffee will save about ten per cent, and give better beverages. 



CORN AND FELON CURES 

Baking soda dampened, c;)read on a thin cloth and boimd over a corn, will 
remove it. 

A paste made of equal parts of saltpeter, brimstone and lard, and bound 
about a felon will cure it. Renew as soon as the poultice gets dry. 



BOXES FOR CLIPPINGS 

In these days of magazines and newspapers everybody makes a collection 
of clippings, and they are valuable or not as we have them classified and con- 
veniently at hand. 

Select eight or ten pasteboard boxes of uniform size and color, such as can be 
obtained from dry goods or furnishing stores. They should be oblong, about 
five by ten inches, and if an inch or two deep will hold quantities of clippings. 
Label them neatly, as for instance, "Recipes," "Household Helps," "Menus," 
"Poetry," "Remedies," "Games," "Famous Persons," etc. 

The nest of boxes — one above the other — will fit nicely into the comer of a 
lower shelf on the bookcase where they are easily accessible when the various 
lists of valuable information are wanted. 



REMOVING RUSTY SCREWS 

To remove a rusty screw, hold a red-hot iron to the head of the screw for a 
short time and use the screw driver while the screw is still hot. 



132 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

STEWED SWEET APPLES 

Place enough sweet apples side by side in a bright milk pan to cover the 
bottom; pour in about a pint of water, sprinkle over half a cup of sugar, cover 
with another pan and let them steam and boil until tender. When about half 
done turn each one over; when done, take up in a pretty dish, pour over the syrup 
and set away to get cold. It is a great improvement on the old baked sweet 
apple, and saves heating up the oven. 



WASHING CHINA SILK WAISTS 

To wash black or white china silk waists to look as good as new, use warm 
soft water. Make a suds of Ivory or any good white soap. Do not put soap 
on the goods. Wash carefully with the hands, without rubbing, through two 
waters, having the last also a suds, and do not rinse. When partly dry, iron 
on wrong side, with not too hot an iron. 



PURIFYING A SPONGE 

By rubbing a fresh lemon thoroughly into a soured sponge and rinsing it 
several times, it will become as sweet as a new one. 



A HANGING BASKET 

Do you know that one of the prettiest hanging baskets imaginable can be 
made from a cocoanut shell? Select a large cocoanut ; if practicable, one shaped 
like a nutmeg. From the end containing the eyes slice off a section about one- 
sixth the depth of the nut. This leaves the edge of the basket curving in a little, 
making it graceful in shape. Bore three holes about three-quarters of an inch 
from the edge for the cord or little chains by which to suspend it, and also a 
rather larger hole in the bottom for drainage. 



GETTING PRUNES CLEAN 

Cooked in the following way prunes will be absolutely clean and delicate. 
Wash and put to cook in cold water, let boil slowly for five minutes. Drain off 
this water and with it will go all impurities. Add fresh water and cook in a 
covered dish until tender. Sweeten to taste. 



CURE FOR HEADACHE 

The juice of half a lemon in a cup of strong coffee without cream or sugar 
will relieve the worst headache. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 133 

A PENCIL POCKET 

The husband will greatly appreciate a narrow pencil pocket not over one 
inch wide placed on inside of coat, cutting through the facing to the right and a 
little above the inside breast pocket on the left side of coat. It should be just 
wide enough and deep enough to hold a pencil and fountain pen. If the husband 
be a business man who often goes without vest on hot days, he will wonder why 
he did not have it long ago. 



HINTS FOR IRONING DAY 

If your flatirons do not heat fast enough, try placing a dripping pan over 
them, and they will get hot much quicker. 

Put all common towels, cloths, etc., when dried through the wringer, set 
close. This mangles them nicely. 



A "NATIONAL" STRAWBERRY STORY 

In the spring of 1904 the National Magazine called attention to the free 
seed and plant distribution carried on by the department of agriculture at 
Washington, and the following was received from a subscriber: 

Late in the season I wrote the department for strawberry plants. The 
supply was nearly exhausted, but they sent me fifteen plants of the Brandywine 
variety. These reached me April 30, in good condition. I set them out the 
same afternoon. May 15, I hoed them. Two plants were dead. From the re- 
maining thirteen plants I picked one pint of nice berries the 30th day of May, 
and had fresh berries every day from May 30 to June 21. 

Those thirteen plants made me a bed from which I picked just thirty-five 
quarts of fine berries. The first of the season berries sold here at twelve and one- 
half cents per quart; afterward at ten cents and then at eight and one-third. 
Now don't you think my subscription to the National was a good investment? 



LIGHT DUMPLINGS 

To have dumplings in a stew perfectly light, they should be laid on the meat 
and not dropped into the broth. If there should not be meat enough, make a 
foundation with potatoes. In mixing use just flour enough so that they can 
be handled nicely. 



TO SOAK KETTLES CLEAN 

Do not put pans and kettles partly filled with water on the stove to soak, as 
it only makes them more difficult to clean. Fill them with cold water and soak 
away from the heat. 



134 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

KITCHEN AND PANTRY HINTS 

In making tomato soup the milk will not separate if you pour the hot milk 
into the hot tomatoes — not the tomatoes into the milk. 

In heating milk that you are afraid will sour, do not add any salt after the 
milk has boiled. Salt helps it to separate. 

Try putting your dry groceries, such as beans, rice and tapioca, into glass 
jars. You can see in a glance what you want and your pantry is thus free from 
mice and bugs, as well as neat looking. 



HOUSING VEGETABLES 

Pumpkins should be kept in a dry part of the cellar, apples in a moderately 
dry part, and turnips in a damp part. 



LIGHT UNDERCRUST 

After a pie is baked and removed from the oven, if it is set on a wire tea-tray 
or anything that will allow the air to circulate under the tin, the under crust 
will be light and flaky, and not heavy and soggy as it would be if set on the table 
to cool. 



CURING MEAT 

Put a thin layer of salt on a table, or boards, and to every 500 pounds of pork 
use the following preparation: ten pounds of salt, five pounds of brown sugar, 
one-half pound of ground ginger, one-half pound black pepper and two ounces 
saltpeter. Mix well and as soon as the meat is cut up lay on the boards or 
table (we use a table made expressly for that purpose) rub well oyer the flesh 
side and well in the ends. If the pieces are not large, that one going over will 
be enough, but if large, in a week or ten days (according to the weather) some 
bare places will show: you then simply put salt on, unless you did not use all 
your preparation ; if you did not, then use that. The sides treated this way and 
then smoked will equal, if not surpass, your fancy breakfast bacon. Be sure and 
let the brine drip off. When it is smoked or ready to put away, get powdered 
borax and rub all over the meat; some rub the skin side, but some do not think 
it necessary. Hang up any place you wish and Mr. Fly will give it a wide berth. 
Some use molasses instead of sugar and use a brush and put the mixture all 
over the meat, but the sugar is just as good and is nicer to handle. 



WHEN BAKING CAKE 

When a cake, after it is baked,>does not come out easily, wring a cloth out of 
cold water, fold, and lay on table, set the hot pan on this for a few moments and 
the contents can be removed without the slightest breakage. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 135 

TO KEEP EGGS PERFECTLY FRESH 

A good method is as follows: When strictly freshly laid, pack them closely, 
so that one braces the other, into a small bag, made of strong, loosely woven 
cotton cloth which has short loops of stout twine sewed firmly at its diagonal 
ends. 

Two dozen in a bag are sufficient to handle easily. When filled, pin or sew 
the bag carefully together, and hang by one of the loops on a rail driven into a 
beam midway of a well-ventilated cellar where a current of air circulates freely. 
Every seventh day change the bag and hang by the opposite loop. 

Don't forget to make the change every week, and with abvmdance of air 
circulating, the eggs will keep for months, dehcate and appetizing as when freshly 
laid. 



TO SOFTEN DRIED LEMONS 

When lemons have become hard from keeping, cover them with boiling 
water and set on back of range a little while. They will become soft and pliable. 



MEALY POTATOES 

If potatoes are immediately placed in the oven for a few minutes after taking 
them from the boiling water in which they have been cooked, they will be much 
more palatable. 

TO COOL THE OVEN 

If when baking, the oven gets too hot, put in a basin of cold water instead 
of leaving the door open. This cools the oven, and the steam arising from the 
water prevents the contents burning. When cooking in a gas oven, a basin of 
water should always be kept in the oven. 



CHOPPING RAISINS 

By first washing the raisins in cold water before putting them through the 
chopper, they come out in fine condition to use, not adhering in masses as usual. 



COOKING HINTS 

Let the kettle in which mush has been cooked stand for five minutes before 
taking up. Then no hard residue will be left sticking to the bottom of the kettle 
to be soaked off and thrown away. 

A quarter of an apple cooked with a quart of cranberries takes off the crude- 
ness, but does not diminish the tartness. 



136 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO BOIL EGGS 

Pour snapping boiling water over the required number of eggs. Set them 
on the back part of the stove (where they will simply keep hot) for ten minutes. 
Cooked in this way, the whites are not tough. 

If you wish hard-boiled eggs, let remain twenty minutes. 

But if you wish to use eggs in decorating a salad or anything of the kind, 
cook in the old way, as for this purpose you need to have the whites firm and 
hard, or you cannot cut them properly. 



TO UTILIZE OLD COLLARS 

When you find linen collars are past wearing, put them in hot water 
and rub the starch out; then peel off the outer linen pieces, hemstitch them, 
and put them on bands for the little girl to wear with school frocks. These 
turn-overs are easy to make, launder beautifully, and wear as long as those 
made of new linen. 



THE OLD WAY AND THE NEW 

Every country housekeeper knows the enormous waste from the lard sup- 
ply in "cracklings" in the old way of "drying up" lard at hog-killing time. The 
new way turns all the fat into lard. Cut the fat from the skins, free it from all 
lean particles and bloody shreds, and where there is only a small quantity to be 
rendered mix the leaf lard with the other fat. Wash first in quite warm water 
and rinse twice in cold water, put it on the stove in closely covered vessels, stir- 
ring frequently until the fat is boiled perfectly done and tender. Have ready 
some good, home-made, sound wood-ash lye, strain from all sediment and add 
half a teacupful of the lye to each gallon of the fat, first removing it from the 
fire to cool somewhat or it may boil over. Return to the fire and cook gently. 
If the fat is thoroughly done, it will soon be reduced to a creamy consistency, 
the fat entirely dissolved. Cook the lard uncovered after the lye is added. 
When the lard is done it will be perfectly clear with a very thin, brown, gmnmy 
scum on top, no cracklings at all. Remove this scum and let the lard remain 
on the stove at the scalding, but not boiling, point for two or three hours. Pour 
into perfectly dry, hot earthera jars — holding only one gallon each is the best size. 
Let it cool uncovered and then cover closely and keep air-tight. Keep in a cool, 
dry place. It is better to keep lard in small vessels, because only the small 
quantity is exposed to the air while using, the bulk of the year's supply remaining 
air-tight, and in no danger of becoming rancid. 



TO WHIP THIN CREAM 

When cream is rather too thin or difficult to whip, add the white of an egg 
to each pint of cream; the whipping can be accomplished much more easily, and 
the flavor of the cream not changed in the least. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 137 

BAKED EGGS 

Break in a buttered gem-pan the number of eggs to be cooked, being careful 
that each is whole ; put upon each a few rolled cracker crumbs, a small piece of 
butter, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. A teaspoonful of cream is a great 
improvement. Bake in the oven imtil whites are firm. 



TO POP CORN 

To pop corn that has become dry and hard, shell the corn and soak in cold 
water for fifteen or twenty minutes; drain off the water (have a very hot fire) 
and put in a small quantity of corn or your popper will overflow. The kernels will 
be large, flaky, tender and crisp. 



TO FRY LIVER 

Before frying liver, try dipping the slices in hot water; the flavor is much 
more delicate. 



SUET IN COOKING 

Buy nice fresh suet of your butcher. If you buy quite a quantity at a 
time you will not to have to prepare it so often. Cut it into small pieces — as you 
would leaf lard — and soak over night in cold water. This takes away the tallowy 
taste. Turn into a colander and drain, then put in a kettle on the stove and let 
the fat try out slowly, stirring quite often to prevent burning. When all tried 
out, strain through a cloth, using scrap-squeezers in order to get all the fat from 
the scraps. Set away the suet to cool as you would lard. 

To have success in using suet one must know how to use it. A good rule for 
making pie crust is as follows: 

For each pie allow one-quarter cup of sour milk or buttermilk — sometimes 
in very cold weather it is best to allow one-third cup. Add soda in proportion 
of one teaspoonful to one pint of sour milk. Also put in salt. When the soda 
is dissolved, stir in flour to make a rather thick batter, then stir in same quantity 
of melted suet that you used of sour milk. The suet must be warm, but not 
hot, and be sure to thoroughly mix it in the batter as fast as you pour it in. If 
not, it will cool in little lumps so you cannot roll the crusts, and you will think 
you do not like to use suet ; but if it is mixed well as fast as poured in you will 
have no trouble. When thoroughly mixed add as much more flour as is needed 
to make it stiff enough to roll, and proceed as with any pie crust. After rolling 
out top crust turn on a little melted suet and spread it around with a knife, 
then sprinkle flour over and spat it down with the hand — if you use the rolling- 
pin it IS apt to get sticky — and just before putting the pie in the oven pour cold 
water over it, which will make the crust flaky. 

Try using suet and see if you do not like it better than lard. It is much 
more healthful, as well as less expensive, and just as convenient to use. 



138 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

A FISH BONE IN THE THROAT 
Swallow a raw, unbeaten egg and the bone will be carried down. 



TO DRIVE AWAY FLIES 

Take five cents' worth of essence of lavender and mix with same quantity of 
water. Use a glass atomizer to spray it around the rooms. The odor is especially 
disagreeable to flies. 

NEW WORDS FOR THE LITTLE FOLKS 

During vacation a child may acquire a great number of new words in this 
way: Let mother select new words from the reader and after carefully writing 
and printing them on a piece of cardboard about three by nine inches, tack it up 
on the wall where the child will see it. He will learn to recognize these words 
at sight and never know that he has been studying. Two or three words a week 
learned in this way will make a great improvement in his reading in the fall term 
of school. 

A child's vocabulary may be increased by taking a new word, perhaps a long 
one, and explaining its meaning to the child. Use it yourself in a sentence, then 
have him do so. In a week the word will be his. In this way children may easily 
acquire a large number of words which will help them more clearly to express 
their ideas and they will speak better Enghsh and use fewer "slang phrases." 



REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM 

Dissolve one tablespoonf ul of saltpeter in a quart of water and take a drink 
of the water — about one tablespoonful — three times a day. This has been tried 
and is known to be an excellent remedy for rheumatism. 



A MAGAZINE CLUB 

Ten ladies, who like good reading but can afford a subscription to only one 
or two good magazines a year, met and each decided to subscribe to one good 
magazine, each person selecting a different one. Then after receiving and read- 
ing each number, it is passed on to another member until each one of the 
club has read it, when it is returned to original subscriber. Each magazine 
when received is marked with owner's name on back, and list of club members 
in order of passing on. The idea proved very satisfactory. The club might con- 
sist of more or less members. It might be composed entirely of teachers, using 
teachers' periodicals, or other professional workers, and the exchange might be 
the occasion of holding a little meeting or entertainment, etc. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 139 

MAKING STOCK FOR SOUPS 

In homes where soup is served daily at dinner, the stock-pot becomes a 
necessity; not alone for economical reasons, but for the sake of convenience as 
well; for from good stock an almost endless variety of savory and wholesome 
soups may be made with little trouble. 

The most nutritious and best flavored stock is prepared from fresh, uncooked 
beef and cracked bones. The addition of the bones becomes a necessity for two 
reasons: they add greatly to the strength and flavor of the stock, and — which 
is the chief concern — furnish the glutinous properties almost wholly lacking in 
the beef itself, two ounces of bones containing as much gelatine as one pound of 
beef. The bones must be cracked before cooking, in order that the water can 
more easily dissolve the gelatine and free it from the earthy matter in which it 
is stored. 

To make a satisfactory stock of delicate flavor, take four pounds of shank 
or shin beef, cut into rather small pieces and crack the bones. Put into a scrupu- 
lously clean soup kettle having a double bottom and a closely fitting cover with 
a tiny opening for the escape of steam. The use of such a kettle lessens the 
danger of scorching and preserves the flavor of the stock. Pour over the mea.t 
and bones four quarts unsalted cold water; the use of hot water would seal up 
the pores of the beef and thus defeat the end in view, which is the extraction 
of the juice. Let stand until the juices color the water, then put over the fire 
and cook gently for several hours or until the meat is in shreds and the liquid 
is reduced one-half. Season with salt and pepper and strain into a jar. By this 
method the sweetness of the meat is completely extracted. During the cooking 
skim frequently and thoroughly. A little cold water poured in now and then 
will assist the scum in rising. This injunction must not be disregarded if clear 
stock is desired. When cold, remove the accumulation of fat, which should be 
clarified for drippings. A transparent jelly will remain in the crock and consti- 
tutes the stock which in turn becomes the basis of many wholesome soups. 

To use stock, cut off the required quantity, add water, bring to a boil, flavor 
and serve. Vegetables or cereals to be used in soups made from stock should be 
previously cooked, for prolonged boiling impairs the delicate flavor which is the 
life of the stock. Clear soups should be transparent, those to which thickening 
is added of the consistency of heavy cream. 

To make white stock from which to evolve the more dainty or creamed 
soups, substitute for the beef given in the formula six poimds of a knuckle of 
veal cut fine and poultry trimmings. Then proceed according to directions 
given. 

In small families the most economical way of making soup is to keep a stock- 
pot, into which should be thrown the scraps of beef and bits of ham left over 
from meals, gravies from the roasts, trimmings from steaks, and ends always 
in evidence before and after meals. Cover with cold water and simmer until a 
rich broth is obtained, then draw off and season. A kettle having a closely fitting 
cover and a faucet to draw off the soup should be provided. Every two or 
three days the stock-pot should be emptied, scalded and aired, else the soup 
will have a stale flavor. 

The best herbs for flavoring stock soups are thyme, sweet marjoram, tarra- 
gon, mint, sweet basil, parsley, bay leaves, cloves, celery seed and mace. The 



140 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

principal vegetables used in soups are onions, potatoes, tomatoes, carrots, aspara- 
gus, green corn, green peas, lettuce, beans, parsnips and mushrooms. 

Of the cereals, rice and barley are most often used. Macaroni and vermi- 
celli are agreeable additions to an otherwise plain eoup. 



FOR CHAPPED HANDS 

Pour fourteen ounces of hot, soft water over one dram of gum tragacanth. 
Let stand until all dissolved, which will take about twenty-four hours. Then add 
two ounces of glycerine, two ounces of alcohol and a few drops of rosewater. 
Keep in a wide-mouthed bottle. 



FRUIT CAKE PUDDING 

A nice way to utilize the dried scraps of fruit cake is to grind them up in 
the meat chopper and stir into gingerbread batter. Baked in a loaf and served 
with a rich wine sauce it makes a delicious dessert for a cold day 



IRREGULAR LOAVES 

If yoiu* loaves of bread sag over the edge of the baking pan, cut strips of heavy 
wrapping paper about four inches wide, and adjust around the pan so as to ex- 
tend above the edge half the width of the paper, or more. Fasten together with 
pin. This will support the loaf till baked enough to stand alone. 

A strip of cloth may be pinned around a pie pan to prevent the two crusts 
separating. 

TO KILL FLEAS 

The owner of a valuable tiger cat of great beauty, which the past two years 
has received a weekly washing with a solution of Sulpho-Naphthol, the most 
perfect eradicator of dirt and fleas, said she had tried all the other advertised 
remedies, but none proved so entirely safe and satisfactory as this. It keeps 
the cat healthy and cleanly, and his fur smooth and glossy. 



"BEAUTY IS USE, USE BEAUTY" 

This is for some of the Western sisters who have to economize. Take 
100-pound salt sacks, rip open, sew four or six together, fell the seams nicely, then 
dye cardinal red. They make very nice everyday table-cloths and look so much 
nicer than the unsightly oilcloth so many use. One can make napkins of the 
same material; cut squares, either hemstitch them or hem on the machine. 
Sugar sacks make nice covers for comforts dyed with some pretty colored dyes. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 141 



SMOKY KETTLES 



Grease well the bottoms of kettles before setting over the fire and the smoke 
can easily be wiped off with an old cloth before putting in the dishwater. The 
finest porcelain pieces may be thus treated and no harm come to them. Those 
who burn soft coal will find this " help " invaluable. 



FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

Buy one-half oimce of any essential oil and use one drop of it in place of the 
usual amount of extract. The cost is trifling, there is no danger of impure alcohol, 
it will keep indefinitely and you know that you have the real thing. Pepper- 
mint, wintergreen, cloves, lemon, orange and others may be used in this way. 



CURE FOR A COLD 

It naay not be generally known that one teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of 
ammonia in two-thirds of a glass of cold water to be taken in doses of one tea- 
spoonful every fifteen minutes or half hour, according to the severity of the case, 
will relieve any ordinary cold, if taken in the early stages. 



WHEN CHURNING 

The easiest and best way to wash the buttermilk out of the butter after churn- 
ing is to wash it right in the churn. After the butter is churned and gathered, 
take out the dash and pour the buttermilk off, then pour cold water over the butter 
in churn and splash with the dasher, gently pressing the butter. Pour this 
off, taking clean water again until the water pours off clear. Take out and salt 
the butter. 

When churning cream that is a little strong from long standing, as is often 
the case in winter, be it ever so carefully kept, try one-half cup of juice from a 
grated carrot with an equal amount of cold water to one gallon of cream. The 
results will be butter of a rich, sweet flavor and an even color. 



QUICK COCOA 

To make delicious cocoa with little time and trouble: Use a teaspoonful 
each of cocoa and sugar for each cup. Place dry in saucepan and shake well; 
povu" over it hot water. It dissolves instantly and is ready for the milk. Let 
come to a boil and it is ready to serve. No extra dishes to wash, and no lumpy, 
sticky mess, as by the old process of dissolving cocoa by itself. 



142 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

RICE STARCH 

In cooking rice — of course everyone cooks it dry in the good old Southern 
way — save the water it has been boiled in to use for starch. It will exactly give 
the right stiffness to handsome centerpieces and other dainty articles. 



TO PREVENT SCORCHING IN OVEN 

To prevent scorching in the oven, place a little salt in the oven beneath the 
baking-tin. 



TO AVOID ACHING FINGERS 

To prevent one's fingers aching when coming into a warm room with cold 
hands, simply hold them with the ends pointing upward instead of down as it 
is so natural for one to do. Mothers, teach this to your little ones and see how 
much pain can be avoided. 

CLEANING A STRAW HAT 

If that favorite white straw hat of yours is yellow or needs cleaning, try a 
mixture of sulphur and lemon juice. Mix to the consistency of cream and apply 
a thin coating, leaving until dry enough to brush off easily. If at all sceptical, 
try a wee place and you will find it so beautifully white that you will cover the 
whole article. 



WHEN RENDERING LARD 

In rendering lard, cut the leaf and trimming of fat into small bits, put m a 
large dripping-pan, heaping it up, put pan in a hot_^oven; the stove does the rest 
without smoke or odor. 



WHEN FRYING EGGS 

When frying eggs cover the skillet or they will be tough ; this also saves turn- 
ing, as when covered they cook white all over the top and look nicer than when 
turned. 



A TESTED CORN CURE 

Take a lemon, cut off a slice about one-fourth of an inch in thickness, bind 
this firmly to the toe over the corn upon retiring. In the morning remove the 
lemon. To your surprise you will find the toe white and all the soreness gone. 
Apply fresh slices of lemon for three or four nights, and at the end of the third 
or fourth morning you can remove the corn without any pain whatever. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 143 

TO COOK AND SERVE CELERY 

Aside from its use as an appetizer, the dietetic value of celery is pretty 
generally appreciated, yet few housewives are aware of its culinary possibilities, 
both alone and in combination with other foods, which, while affordmg the change 
so agreeable to the palate, in no wise detract from the food value of the plant. 

Below are appended a few choice recipes for cooking and serving celery: 

Escalloped Celery: Wash, scrape and cut two bunches nicely bleached 
celery into half-inch lengths, then drop into boiling water slightly salted and 
stew gently five minutes; drain well, reserving one-half cup of the liquor. Put 
this over the fire together with one cup of cream or rich milk and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Bring to a boil, thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour 
moistened with a little cold milk, cook smooth, season to taste with salt and 
white pepper, then pour over the celery. When the mixture cools, stir into it 
two beaten eggs, and pour the whole into a buttered ramekin, cover with grated 
bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter and stand in a hot oven until set and 
nicely browned. Serve hot without re-dishing. At the last moment before 
sending to the table sprinkle grated cheese over the top. 

Celery Puree with Poached Eggs: Chop one bunch fine celery into small 
pieces, then stew gently in one pint of chicken or veal stock. When tender, 
press through a puree sieve, return to the fire and boil rapidly imtil reduced to 
a cup and one-half. Then stir into it half a cupful of sweet cream and a large 
tablespoonful of butter, boil up once, then thicken to the consistency of cream 
with flour moistened with a little cold milk; cook smooth, then season to taste 
with salt and white pepper. Poach the required number of eggs, arrange on small 
hot plates for individual serving and pour the pur^e around them. 

Celery Pat^s: Wash clean, then cut into small lengths a sufficient quantity 
of nicely bleached celery. Stew until tender in boiling salted water; then drain, 
reserving one-half cupful of the liquor, to which add the same quantity of cream 
and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Put over the fire, boil up and thicken with 
one tablespoonful of flour. Pour this sauce over the celery. Have ready 
pat^-shapes baked empty, fill them with the mixture and brown in a quick oven. 

Celery Loaf: Chop fine a sufficient quantity of celery to measure two cup- 
fuls, stew tender, then cover with a sauce made of one cupful of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls each of butter and flour with salt and pepper to season. Stir well, 
then add two beaten eggs or a cupful of minced veal or chicken. Turn into a 
buttered mold, stand in a pan of hot water and bake in a rather quick oven. 
When done, unmold on a hot platter, garnish with fringed celery and serve 
with tomato sauce. 

(To fringe celery, cut the white stalks into three-inch lengths, then draw 
each end back and forth several times through three or four coarse needles stuck 
in one end of a cork.) 

Celery and Apple Salad : Cut the white portions of a bunch of well-bleached 
celery into half -inch lengths. Pare and cut three tart, nicely flavored apples into 
dice. Mix with the celery. Wash and crisp one head of lettuce and arrange 
for individual serving, pile little mounds of celery and apple in the leaves and 
dress with salad dressing. This salad must not stand long before serving, as 
the apples turn dark when exposed to the air. Nuts may be substituted for the 
apples, using twenty English walnuts for each head of celery, reserving a dozen 



144 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

meats for garnishing. Or the celery may be used alone, in which case double 
the quantity will be required. 

Celery Soup: Cook one pint of celery, chopped very fine, in one pint of 
cold water, salted to taste, until soft enough to mash, then rub through a colander. 
Bring one and one-half pints of milk to a boil; add the pulped celery and one-half 
teaspoonful of minced onion. Simmer fifteen minutes, then thicken with one 
tablespoonful of flour blended with two of butter. Cook until smooth, stirring 
constantly. Season to taste with salt and white pepper. 



THE ART OF MAKING SOUPS 

It is said that ten or fifteen years ago soup was served in very few American 
homes, while now it forms an essential part of every well-regulated dinner. 

Soup has its place at the beginning of dinner, for a reason, not a fad. It 
is a valuable appetizer, acting as a stimulant rather than a nutrient, and being 
quickly assimilated, prepares the way for the dishes to follow. 

Gouffe says: "Beef broth is the soul of domestic cookery." That is, it is 
the essence that is to pervade the body of the dish, giving character and atmos- 
phere without substance. But to get that " soul " out of the formula, beginning 
"take a shin of beef," has proven a difficult problem to many a housekeeper and 
a seeming impossibility to more than a few cooks. 

Edward Atkinson said in the beginning of his well-known directions on 
how to prepare and cook food: "Take one part of gumption and one part of 
food." Gumption, simmered gently with the "shin of beef," will produce beef 
broth, but gumption brings a high price on the market of commodities nowadays, 
and is often lacking at any. The demand for marketable gumption has brought 
into being a substitute for home-made beef broth, in the form of Armour's Ex- 
tract of Beef. With a jar of solid, or a bottle of fluid, extract at hand, the cook 
has, without time or trouble, and with ordinary or even less expense, the " soul " 
of her cookery at hand. 

Thin, poorly flavored, watery soups are never satisfactory and are actually 
wasteful, but such need never be served if the right use be made of the materials. 
Pea, bean, com, tomato, vegetable and grain soups of all kinds, can be prepared 
of the left-overs of canned and fresh vegetables, if properly combined with stock 
made from Extract of Beef. In such cases recipes can act as suggestions only, 
for the ingredients must vary with the exigencies of the larder. The proportion 
of extract, however, remains the same. 

When clear soup, such as bouillon, rice or sphagetti is to be made, take one 
teaspoonful of Armoiu-'s Solid Extract of Beef to every quart of water. When 
used for purees, bisques and those soups with substance or bodies to them, 
take one-half, or even at times all that is required is one-quarter, teaspoonful of 
Armour's Solid Extract of Beef to every quart of water. Soups that have a 
stock of their own require but one-quarter teaspoonful of Armour's Solid Extract 
of Beef to give the desired meat juices and flavor. 

The exact measurement of the required seasonings can rarely be given, for 
adaptation is one of the necessities. Add salt until the soup is "bright-tasting" 
but not suggestive of sea water; pepper to the brink of pungency, giving the tone 
of warmth, not a burning taste. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MA KERS 145 

REFLECTED LIGHT 

To increase the light given by a small lamp, place a mirror directly back of 
it, so that your lamp casts its reflection in the mirror. You can easily see just 
how much additional light you get from the mirror, by putting a paper between 
the lamp and the mirror, and suddenly withdrawing it, noticing how much 
lighter the room is. 

WHITE LIGHT 

A little salt added to the oil of a lamp that gives oat a yellow light will whiten 
and brighten the light, or wash the wick in strong salt and water and dry, and it 
will give a whiter light. 

A CHEAP REFLECTOR 

Make a triangular box high enough to hold your lamp, leaving one side open, 
and having painted the inside of the box black, line the two sides with cheap 
mirror glass. 

A WATER TELESCOPE 

Buy an empty candy bucket of your grocer, and see that the hoops are well 
secured. Paint green or gray on the outside and varnish thoroughly; paint a 
dead black on the inside, cut a square or round hole in the bottom, fixing it so 
that a small pane of very clear and rather thick glass can be set in white lead. 
If necessary, strengthen the bottom with brass, or hard wood strips. Place the 
bottom of the pail in the water, and look through it with a cloth over your head 
to shut out the light, and you can see everything in almost any depth of reason- 
ably clear water. Every boat fisherman should carry one. 



MENDING FURS 

A good way to mend fur rugs or anything made of fur, is to fasten the edges 
together with strips of adhesive plaster on the imder side. 



TO LAUNDER FINE GOODS 

If you wish your clothes to iron easy and retain that "new" look so de- 
sirable, pour one quart of boiled starch into your last rinsing water. 

Mix the dry starch with a Uttle water and before pouring on the boiling 
water shave in a httle white soap. No scum will ever form over the top nor will 
the irons stick to the clothes. 



14G LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

ARRANGING CUT FLOWERS 

To the true flower-lover much of the pleasure from them is secured by their 
use as cut flowers in all sorts of places, for all sorts of decorative purposes, and 
the hints here given will be along the line of easy and effective ways of arranging 
them, rather than descriptive of any finished effects. 

p-I! The petals of many flowers, like the lily and the fleur-de-lis, are so fragile 
that it is almost impossible to handle them, after they are fully open, without 
breaking; if cut before the petals begin to curve outward and allowed to finish 
after they are arranged, this risk is entirely obviated. 

Very few flowers look well when massed closely together; in the style of 
arrangement which leaves the blossoms loose and natural in appearance the stems 
must be held in some way. When using opaque receptacles, paper, moss, or 
almost anything may be tucked in among the stems to support them and 
prevent the blossoms from lopping over on one side, or on all sides. 

For use with glass receptacles having wide tops, a circular piece of wire 
netting is a great help. Any dealer will cut it to a desired size, leaving a few 
wires on each side to be bent into hooks and caught over the edge of the glass. 
This is practically invisible if allowed to drop a little below the edge of the re- 
ceptacle; and by putting the stems through the meshes of the netting they are 
kept separated and the flowers remain as arranged. 

Pansies, violets and other flowers, having large and heavy heads in pro- 
portion to their slender stems, are hard to arrange in any kind of receptacle with- 
out something to hold them in position; one of the best things to use is a 
sponge. Get a large one and soak it in water until fully distended, then cut 
away one side until it is perfectly flat. Round the remaining surface to a sym- 
metrical shape, stick it full of meat skewers and let it dry. 

When wanted, pull out the skewers and put the stems of flowers in the 
spaces; set the sponge in a plate of water (flat side down) and after it has ab- 
sorbed the water, add more and tuck in a few leaves and blossoms where needed 
to hide the sponge or plate. 

In using flowers that are produced in spikes, umbels or other compound 
forms, it often is advisable to sacrifice part of the blossom. To illustrate: the 
immense blossoms of the hardy hydrangea seem little suited for use in making 
wreaths, crosses, anchors or other pieces where the flowers must lay close to a flat 
surface; but by cutting away the florets on one side until a flat surface is ob- 
tained they may be used as easily and effectively as any flower known, and have 
the very desirable qualities of filling space rapidly, and keeping fresh for a long 
time. 

When possible, use the natural foliage of the plant (and plenty of it), for no 
other greenery will give the artistic effect secured by using that with which 
nature surrounded the blossoms. 

Nearly always the finest effects are gained by using but one kind of flower, 
and always by making the vase subordinate to the flowers. 

A vase may be beautiful in itself, but if its lines and coloring are not in har- 
mony with the flowers put into it, the effect can never be artistic, or pleasing to a 
cultivated taste. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 147 



BONES AND CHARCOAL IN FLORICULTURE 

During the winter, when more meat is used than during the summer, a supply 
of bones should be burned for next year's use as drainage material. Throw 
every bone into the fire and let it burn until it will break easily. Bones furnish 
elements absolutely essential to plant growth, aside from serving as drainage 
material. 

Those who burn wood should save, also, a plentiful supply of charcoal. 
When there is a good bed of live coals, take out all that can be spared and pour 
water over them until the fire is extinguished. It frequently happens that 
when the kitchen work is done there will be a fine bed of coals in the stove, or 
some large embers, and the wise flower-lover will not fail to convert them into 
charcoal for future use. 

The bones furnish large per cents, of carbon, calcic phosphates and calcic car- 
bonates for the plants to feed on, while charcoal rapidly absorbs moisture and 
noxious gases which would make the soil cold and sour, at the same time that 
it gives out elements which are decidedly helpful to the plants in the way of 
producing dark, glossy foliage and vividness of color to the blossoms. 

If it is possible to save more than is needed for drainage, powder it and mix 
with the soil, not only for pot-plants but around those in the garden, also. If 
there is any to spare, divide with friends who do not burn wood from which 
to get the charcoal, and let them burn their bones in your fire (if they burn gas). 
You will get the benefit of the heat, which is intense, and they will have the 
burned bones for their plants. 

If a large metal pail, or a stone crock, is kept where it is handy to put both 
bones and charcoal into it, the trouble of saving them is practically nothing, and 
if it were considerable, the results would amply repay it. Knowing how extensively 
charcoal is used as a filtering agent in many lines of work, and that it is given to 
dyspeptics to neutrahze the action of gases in the stomach, it is easy to under- 
stand that it must benefit vegetable life, and that the one who allows it to go to 
waste is wasting what represents marked improvement in the beauty of all plants 
grown, either in pots or in the open ground. 

It is well to know that where large lumps of charcoal or bone are used as 
drainage material, they may be purified and made fit for use again by putting 
them into the fire and letting them get red hot, then throwing water over them 
to stop the burning. As it is not always easy to find charcoal for sale, when 
wanted, those who buy it will find this hint worth heeding. 

Those unfamiliar with the nature of charcoal may ask what becomes of 
the gases absorbed, and wonder why the plants do not draw them from the 
charcoal as easily as they would from the soil. The reason is this: The pores 
of the charcoal are filled with condensed oxygen, and the gases absorbed are de- 
composed by contact with it. The process of decomposition generates warmth, 
which is another reason why charcoal is one of the best materials to use around 
the roots of plants. 

TO PREVENT A SNEEZE 

When you feel an inclination to sneeze lay the forefinger across the upper 
lip, close under the nose, and press down hard. 



148 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

FLORAL POINTERS FOR FEBRUARY 

Before this month ends many of us will be making comparisons between the 
number of plants we see listed in the new catalogues, and want, and the amount 
of money we can appropriate to their purchase, but the experienced ones will 
stop short of getting many of the much lauded novelties. 

Much of the pleasure in cultivating flowers consists in watching the develop- 
ment of unknown plants, and we want a few of the new ones, but it is the part 
of wisdom to make it "a few" and let someone else try others. 

Sometimes they are all that is claimed for them, very frequently they are 
worth mighty little, and, always, they are high-priced. 

When planning for the purchase of plants, a thought must be given to the 
number and condition of the pots on hand, for it is altogether probable that some 
new ones will be needed and more than probable that a part of those on hand 
will need renovating. The price of a novelty or two will pay for enough along this 
line to add more to the appearance of the plant collection than could be added 
by a dozen fine plants put into, and among, a lot of shabby pots. 

Soft-baked clay pots are the best to get for most plants, when conditions for 
growth are considered, and the natural CTeam and terra cotta shades in which 
they usually come blend harmoniously with all colors found in fohage and 
flower, among our plants, which is more than can be said for some of the expensive, 
glazed, highly-colored and gilt-bedecked things sold as ornamental (?) pots. 

With ordinary care these pots may be used for years before they become 
discolored, but when that time comes they should be emptied, thoroughly scrubbed 
and stained — not painted. To prepare the stain, add powder of the color wanted 
to turpentine, a very little at a time, until the desired shade is secured. 

Enghsh vermilion added to the turpentine produces a color closely re- 
sembUng that of the darker pots when new; yellow ochre produces a cream tint, 
and burnt ochre a brown one, while chrome-green with a very little black gives 
a beautiful moss-green shade, and either of the stains gives a permanent color 
to the clay without filling the pores. 

In order to pot a plant in the way to induce its best growth, it is necessary to 
take into consideration the kind of root it naturally produces. To put a plant 
having long, downward-reaching roots into a broad, shallow pot is to invite 
failure, while to put one that produces spreading roots which remain near the 
surface into a deep pot is to make sure of having a quantity of soil below the roots 
which is in a condition to be worse than useless. 

Among the broad and shallow pots now on the market we find one class 
listed as fern-pots, and these are fine for any plant having roots that spread near 
the surface. 

A second class, even more shallow, are called bulb pans and a third class 
furnishes the seed pans which are the best possible things in which to start seeds. 

The advantage gained by the use of these pans comes from the fact that they 
may be set into water and left until the soil has absorbed moisture enough. 
If the water is warm, the soil becomes warmed and, in any case, there is no danger 
of washing out the seeds or tiny plants. 

One fine plant in a suitable pot is far more ornamental, and gives more en- 
joyment to all who see it, than two fine plants in shabby pots, and the fact should 
be kept in mind when planning the window-garden campaign for any season. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 149 

DELICIOUS SWEETBREAD DISHES 

The sweetbread or, more properly, the pancreas of the calf, being a part 
of the digestive viscera, is one of the most easily digested of animal foods, and 
is, for this reason, especially adapted to persons in delicate health. Its flavor, 
which is exceedingly dainty, commends it to the palate of both the sick and the 
well. The thyroid and sublingual glands are also called sweetbreads, but are 
not only smaller than the true sweetbreads, but greatly inferior in flavor. The 
pancreas is triangular in shape and, when taken from a healthy animal, is fresh 
pinkish yellow in color. The throat sweetbread is oval and grayish yellow. 
The term, a pair of sweetbreads, usually means the heart and throat sweetbreads. 
The singular number of the noun is seldom used, even though but one sweet- 
bread is in question. Lamb sweetbreads also make a very dainty dish. 

Sweetbreads spoil quickly and should never be allowed to stand, but dropped 
at once into very cold water to blanch and harden. Let stand an hour, changing 
the water as often as it becomes discolored; then remove the pipes and mem- 
brane, cover with boiling water, to which has been added a pinch of salt and a 
little lemon juice, and simmer for half an hour. Drain, chill in cold water, drain 
again and dry in a clean towel. They are then ready to be finished by any recipe 
preferred. 

Broiled Sweetbreads: After chilling and drying the parboiled sweetbreads, 
lay between two flat pans or boards and place a weight on top. When pressed 
flat, dip each in melted butter, place in a broiler over a bed of live coals. 
Transfer to a hot platter, dress with bits of butter, dust with salt and white 
pepper, garnish with parsley and sliced lemon and serve at once. 

Sweetbread Chops: Prepare the sweetbreads according to general direc- 
tions, then chop fine, and for each two cups of the meat add one-fourth cup of 
grated bread crumbs. Mix well, season with salt and white pepper and bind to- 
gether with a hot white sauce made by blending with one cup sweet milk, two 
tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, with salt, pepper and lemon juice to season 
nicely. Stand the mixture aside until cold, then form into chops. Dip each 
chop into beaten egg and dredge with bread crumbs. Arrange in a frying 
basket and fry a golden brown in deep hot fat. Drain a moment on clean brown 
paper. Then stick a piece of macaroni in the small end of each chop to simulate 
the bone. Serve on a napkin with a garnish of lemon crescents. 

Larded Sweetbreads: Prepare the sweetbreads as for broiling. Cut narrow 
strips of salt pork as long as the sweetbreads are wide. Thread a larding needle 
with these strips and run several of them at regular intervals through the sweet- 
breads near the top surface. Place in a shallow pan and stand in a hot oven 
thirty minutes, basting several times with rich stock. When cooked, transfer 
to a hot platter and surround with a border of stewed peas fromjwhich all liquor 
has been drained. 

Sweetbread au Gratin: Chop prepared sweetbreads fine, then stir into a 
thick white sauce seasoned with salt, pepper and mushroom catsup. Butter 
a ramequin and line the bottom and sides with grated bread crvunbs. Pour the 
sweetbread mixture into this, cover with bread crumbs, dot with bits of butter 
and brown in a hot oven. Serve without redishing. ^ 

Sweetbread Croquettes: Cut prepared sweetbreads fine; dust with salt 
and pepper and add four tablespoonfuls of minced mushrooms or oysters, if the 



150 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

latter are seasonable, and bind together with thick white sauce. When cold, form 
into croquettes of any desired shape, dip into beaten egg, then in crumbs and 
fry in deep hot fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Sweetbread with Eggs: Cut a large parboiled sweetbread into dice. Put 
one-half cupful of rich milk over the fire in a granite frying-pan. When it boils, 
add two tablespoonfuls of butter, four eggs slightly beaten and the diced sweet- 
bread. Cook, stirring constantly, until of the consistency of thick custard and 
the white of the eggs is scattered in flakes through the mixture. Take from the 
fire, season with salt and white pepper, and serve on rounds of toast, heaping 
up like little mounds. 

Sweetbreads in Cocottes: Prepare as for sweetbreads au gratin, then fill 
buttered cocottes with the mixture, cover with crumbs, dot with butter and brown 
in the oven. Serve in the cocottes. Just before sending to the table, place a 
poached egg on top of each. 

Fricasseed Sweetbreads: Cut prepared sweetbreads into thin slices. Pre- 
pare a sauce of one teacupful of rich stock, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
of flour and seasoning to taste. Simmer the slices of sweetbreads in this gravy 
forty-five minutes. Then stir in one beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley and two of cream. Simmer a few minutes longer, then dish and serve 
at once. 

Sweetbread and Nut Salad: Prepare sweetbreads as directed, then with a 
silver knife tear into bits. Blanch and dry one dozen almonds and the same 
number of English walnuts. Chop the nuts fine and mix with the sweetbreads. 
Arrange for individual service in lettuce cups. Garnish with walnut meats and 
sprigs of cress. 

FOR SENSITIVE TEETH 

Dissolve three lime tablets in a glass of water. Take a mouthful, working 
it about between the teeth, retaining as long as convenient. Do this about three 
times a day and the sensitiveness will disappear. Country druggists, as a rule, 
do not keep the tablets, but any city druggist can supply you. 



RAISING RADISHES 

Select a piece of sandy ground in the corner of your garden for this crop. 
Each spring before sowing scatter wood ashes two inches or more in depth, 
and mix thoroughly with the soil. No manure is required and the radishes are 
always brittle and free from worms. 



TEA AND RHEUMATISM 

It is said that tea-drinking causes rheumatism. One member of a 
household was badly affected with this disease, scarcely being able to get around. 
She quit drinking tea, and has not been troubled with rheumatism since. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 151 



PANCAKE BATTER 

When making pancake batter, add about one tablespoonful of melted butter 
to one quart of batter, and you will not have to grease the griddle. The cakes 
will be unproved and your kitchen will not be filled with smoke. 



CURE FOR MALARIAL TUBERCULOSIS 

A young woman, afflicted with malarial tuberculosis on hands and feet, 

was under the care of the best physicians for several years. The disease was 
steadily exhausting her strength, and finally she was confined to her bed with no 
hope of recovery. Her mother, a nurse, would not think of any change (that 
would be contrary to her training) so she continued fighting the disease with 
determination, but without success. She became discouraged, and as a last 
hope purchased a bottle of Liquozone. The remedy acted as a tonic at once, and 
in a short time she noticed marked improvement. She owed it to the oxygen in 
Liquozone, which is a scavenger of the blood, that the girl regained health. 
And a word of highest recommendation may be welcome to otlaer mothers. 



CURING AND PREVENTING BED-SORES 

If anyone having the care of a bed-ridden patient will bathe the tender skin 
with brandy each day, there will be no danger of bed-sores. But if these have 
developed, put the white of an egg in a cup, and cover with brandy; apply as 
often as convenient. The brandy stimulates, and the white of egg forms a thin skin. 
In very bad cases a pinch of alum added to the egg and brandy is desirable, 
as it draws out the inflammation, and, being astringent, helps to dry up the sore. 



WASHING BLACK STOCKINGS 

Unless washed with great care, black stockings soon turn a greenish color. 
Wash with soap that is free from soda and rinse in water to which a teaspoonful 
of vinegar has been added. When damp, press them into shape, but do not 
iron, as the heat tends to destroy the color. 



NEW USE FOR A SAFETY-PIN 

The following device proves satisfactory when closet room is scarce or when 
hooks are few. Fold a dress skirt so that it is in four thicknesses, then through 
the center of the four-fold belt, at right angles, run a large safety-pin, fasten 
the pin and slip over the hook, which will hold, in good condition, several skirts 
hung in this manner. 



152 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

PREVENTS RUST IN WATER PAILS 

To prevent tin water pails from rusting. Solder piece of sheet zinc two 
inches square in bottom of pail. The galvanic action of the zinc with the tin 
prevents the just. 

A GLUE HINT 

A teaspoonf ul of saltpeter added to a large pot of glue will effectually pre- 
vent it from smelling bad; besides, it causes the glue to dry faster and harder 
than it would without the saltpeter. 



TO PHYSIC THE CAT 

If the cat needs medicine, don't try to force it down her throat or mix it with 
milk. Smear it on her sides and she will lick it all off clean. 



OPENING A FOUNTAIN PEN 

If your fountain pen is stuck so you cannot unscrew it, wrap a small rubber 
band tightly around the nozzle or pen part. This will give you a grip on the pen 
that will nearly always fetch it. If you cannot get it to come off by using the 
rubber, try putting a httle powdered rosin on the fingers. Rosin seldom fails, 
but it is rough for the hand. 

Rosin on the hand will always fetch a tight watch case or any other smooth, 
screw-joint article. 

SECURING A LETTER 

Sometimes one wants to be sure that a letter cannot be tampered with. 
Moisten the flap with the white of an egg and dry thoroughly. It cannot be 
pulled open, and steaming has no effect upon it. 



THE CARE OF JEWELRY 

A few drops of ammonia on the under side of a diamond will clean it im- 
mediately and make it very brilliant. 

Jewels are generally wrapped up in cotton and kept in their cases, but they 
are subject to tarnish from exposure to the air. and require cleaning. This is 
done by preparmg clean soapsuds and using fine toilet soap. Dip anv article 
of gold, silver, gilt or precious stones into this lye, and dry them by brushing 
with a soft brush, or a fine sponge, afterward with a piece of fine cloth and lastly 
with a soft leather. Silver ornaments may be kept in fine arrowroot, and com- 
pletely covered with it. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 153 

ARE YOUR DIAMONDS SECURE? 

An easy way to learn whether your diamonds are loose or not, is to hold 
them close to the ear, with the stone downward, and gently tap them with your 
finger; if loose, you will be able to hear them rattle. 



THE CORK IN THE BOTTLE 

To remove a cork that has gone through the neck into the body of the 
bottle, make a loop of twine, insert loop into bottle, turn the bottle until loop 
has encircled the cork, invert the bottle and draw out the cork. This manoeuver 
may have to be repeated several times, but one will soon learn to remove the cork 
quickly. 

TO KEEP AWAKE IN CHURCH 

To keep awake in church when inclined to be drowsy, lift one foot a little 
way from the floor and hold it there. It is impossible to go to sleep when your 
foot is poised in the air. This remedy, though simple, is very effectual and never 
fails to keep a person awake. 

FIXATIVE 

Crayon sketches and pictures, black and colored, may be fixed so that they 
will not rub or soil by spraying them with a solution of white shellac gimi in alco- 
hol. Spray with a tin atomizer. 

CLEANING AN OLD CLOCK 

Have any of the readers of "Little Helps" a clock they value, that seems to 
be near the end of its career of usefulness; does it skip a beat now and then, 
and when it begins to strike seem to be in pain? To remedy this condition, take a 
bit of cotton batting, the size of a hen's egg, dip it in kerosene, and place it on 
the floor of the clock, in the corner, shut the door of the clock and wait three or 
four days. Your clock will be like a new one, skip no more, and will strike as of 
old, and as you look inside you will find the cotton batting black with dust. The 
fumes of the oil loosen the particles of dust, and they fall, thus cleaning the clock. 



TO CLEAN PLAYING CARDS 

Soiled playing cards may be cleaned by rubbing over with a cloth dipped 
in camphor-spirit. For about thirty to fifty cards scarcely more than a thimble- 
ful of camphor is needed. Another good cleaner is made by mixing burned 
magnesia, benzol and a little camphor-spirit, forming a jelly which is to be kept 
in an air-tight tin box and rubbed on the cards to clean them. 



154 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKER S 

SLIPPERY NEW SHOES 

To prevent small children slipping when wearing new shoes with smooth 
soles, rub the soles a few times over sandpaper. 



TO STRAIGHTEN RUG CORNERS 

Make stiff flour starch, take your rug to a sunny place on the portico, turn it 
upside down, apply the starch to the corners, and leave the rug to dry. 



FRESHENING DUSTY CARPETS 

In the early spring and fall before house-cleaning time has arrived, the 
carpets often look so dusty that the housekeeper is in despair. When this is the 
case let her take a basin of water in which a little ammonia has been dropped, 
and after she has wrung a cloth out and wiped off the floor, she will be agreeably 
surprised, as the carpet will look as fresh as when first put down and keep clean 
much longer than it otherwise would. 



SAVES LABOR AND DIRT 

To save the taking up of ashes, we have an arrangement which we would 
dislike to be without. In the bottom of our range we cut a hole in which a three- 
inch galvanized iron pipe is inserted. This leads into a brick pit directly under- 
neath in the basement, which holds two cart-loads of ashes; so it is necessary 
to have them removed only once a year. As our grate is moderately fine we never 
have to dump it, thus saving the disagreeable work of sifting the ashes. 



HINTS ON BEE-KEEPING 

To stop a strong colony of bees from robbing a weaker neighbor, give it some- 
thing else to do by raising the cover and throwing into it a generous handful of 
sawdust or chaff. The little workers will immediately get busy with "house- 
cleaning," meanwhile forgetting all about the coveted store of their neighbors. 

To strengthen and revive a weak old colony, add to it a second or third 
swarm from one of your other colonies. Such swarms are usually too small, any- 
way, to give satisfaction in a hive to themselves. To double them, first hive 
the small swarm in a super or cap. Take the lid off the old hive, which 
should then be covered by a sheet of common screen wire, and place the cap 
with the new swarm on top of this. The screen wire serves to keep the two 
hostile colonies apart until all the inner spaces are permeated with a common 
scent, otherwise a furious battle would ensue, lasting until one or the other 
colony is exterminated. The screen can be removed in twenty-four hours 
and you will have gained a flourishing colony of bees by the simple operation. 
Two or more new swarms may be put together in the same way. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 155 

FOR BIRD-LOVERS 

Here is a suggestion for those who have canaries for pets. In a little jar- 
diniere about two inches high, which may be found in any Japanese store, 
plant some of the bird seeds; in a short time they grow two or three inches 
of tender, green shoots. 

Now put the jardiniere in the corner of the bird's cage, and he will have 
such a good time, eating off the tender tops! 

Let him enjoy it for an hour or so and then take it away and save it for 
another day, placing it in the sun to encourage the new growth of the little plants. 



TO SEPARATE BEESWAX FROM COMB 

To separate beeswax from the comb, tie it up in a cloth with a stone in it 
to keep it at the bottom of a kettle of cold water. Place it over the fire. The 
wax will rise to the top as it melts and the impurities will remain in the bag. 



TO IMPROVE FURNACE HEAT 

When, as often happens, a register refuses to send out a stream of hot air, 
if a lighted lamp or candle is placed on the register for ten or fifteen minutes, the 
trouble will be remedied. The hot air from the lamp starts a draft that draws 
the cold air from the pipe. 

TO SAVE FROSTED PLANTS 

When a killing frost has struck tomatoes, grapes or other tender plants in 
the early fall, sprinkle with cold water early in the morning before the sun's 
rays reach the plants, and there will be no damage. 



TO FRESHEN MATTING 

Dip a mop into water to which salt has been added, wring almost dry and 
mop up the matting. This keeps matting much better than simply sweeping it will. 



TYING LOW SHOES 

To tie the lacings of shoes so that they will not come undone at inopportune 
times and yet be easily untied when the wearer desires, try the following, which 
never fails when correctly done: 

Tie the strings as for the ordinary bow-knot, but just before drawing down 
the two loops, turn one of them back through the open knot, then draw down 
securely. It is unfastened like the common bow-knot by merely pulling one 
string. A httle practice makes this an extremely simple process and one is 
saved the vexation of loose shoes and traiUng strings in public places. 



156 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SECURE AS A BOLT 

After a door is locked with the key, if a stout wire eleven inches long, bent in 
the shape of a hair-pin, is put over the spindle (back of the knob) with the ends 
down through the key, the latter cannot be pushed out and a key inserted from 
the outside. A lady traveling alone can carry this device in her hand-bag and 
use it at jxinction and summer resort hotels where the keys are often all alike. 



SCORCHED FRUIT 

If the kettle of preserves, jam, or whatever happens to be cooking, becomes 
scorched, set it immediately into a dish of cold water, and the flavor will be un- 
impaired. 

DELICIOUS BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of medium and uniform size. Wash them well and drop into 
a kettle of boiling water to which has been added a little salt and a pinch of soda. 
Boil four to five minutes according to size and take out and put in hot oven and 
bake till shghtly brown. You will say you never knew what potatoes were be- 
fore, if you time them just right. 

TO KEEP SYRUP IN PIES 

Take a strip of thin old linen or muslin about one and one-half inches in 
width and long enough to encircle the pie with a lap of two inches. Wet this 
thoroughly, wring almost dry, and bind the edges just before putting the pie into 
the oven, allowing it to come well over top and bottom edges. The pie will bake 
perfectly with never the loss of a drop of juice, and while still hot the binding 
will slip off without marring the flakiest pastry. 



PASTE FOR PAPER HANGING 

When preparing paste to hang paper on whitewashed walls, to every gallon 
of paste add one pint of vinegar, and there will be no trouble about the paper 
coming off. It wiU also save the labor of washing the walls with vinegar. 



TO KEEP SILVER BRIGHT 

Fill a paper box with alternate layers of knives, forks, spoons, etc., and com- 
mon flour, perfectly dry; if the silver is bright and dry when put away, it may 
be used at any time without cleaning for a year or two. After this time, the flour 
needs drying off. It saves a great deal of cleaning. All silver can be packed 
in the same way ; if iised frequently, wiping with a dry towel is all that is necessary. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 157 

TO KEEP MICE AWAY 

Camphor placed in trunks or drawers will prevent the mice from doing them 
injury. 

TO CLEAN CARPET ON THE FLOOR 

The following solution may be used in cleaning silk and other delicate 
colored fabrics. For cleaning carpet have ready a pan of the lukewarm solution 
and a pan of warm soft water. Clean a small place at a time, rinsing with a 
cloth lightly wrung out of the clear water. Apply the solution with a loufah, 
sponge, or cloth. The loufah, as it does not lint and wears well, is better. One 
gallon of rain water, one bar of Ivory soap, one-half pound of borax and three 
ounces of sal soda. Boil until all the ingredients are dissolved, then add two 
gallons of cold water and one pint of alcohol. Keep in tightly corked jugs. Will 
keep for years. 

USES OF TURPENTINE 

Turpentine is excellent and soothing when applied to scalds and cuts. 

It will take ink stains out of muslin when added to soap and also helps to 
whiten clothes if added to the water in which they are boiled. 

Moths will not come near clothes sprinkled with turpentine; they seem to 
hate its odor. 

A few drops of turpentine will exterminate cockroaches and drive red and 
black ants away. 

Tan leather boots can be nicely cleaned with turpentine. Pour on a woolen 
cloth and rub. 

Turpentine is a simple and safe remedy for chilblains, corns on the feet and 
blisters on the hands. 

Use turpentine in the bath water for rheumatism. 

To remove stains from marble, take a wineglassful of turpentine and ox- 
gall, and mix into a paste with pipe-clay. Put the paste on the stain and let 
it remain two or three days. 

Carpets can be cleaned and freshened by going over them once a week with 
a broom dipped in hot water containing turpentine. 



TOMATO SOUP 

Two teaspoonfuls of Armour's Extract of Beef, one can of tomatoes, one 
quart of water, bit of bay leaf, two cloves, one teaspoonful of paprika, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of soda, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour and one teaspoonful of 
finely chopped onion. 

Strain the tomatoes, add the water, and cook twenty minutes, add soda, salt, 
sugar and extract of beef, bring to boil on quick fire, bind with butter and flour, 
add seasoning. Serve with croutons. 



158 Little helps for home-makers 

TURPENTINE FOR STINGS 
Turpentine is good for a bee's sting. 



TO TEST EGGS 

A simple test of the freshness of eggs is to drop them carefully into a pan 
of water. If one lies flat upon the bottom it is fresh, if it rises on end, it is stale, 
if it floats to the surface, it is imquaUfiedly bad and can be thrown away. 



FURNITURE POLISH 

Best vinegar one pint, turpentine one-half pint. Mix and apply with a 
brush. 



RED ANTS 

A string dipped in sassafras oil, and tied around the legs of the table will pre- 
vent ants from getting on the table. 



TO CLEAN BRASS 

Dampen a cloth with ammonia, rub it briskly over a piece of pumice soap, 
and then over the brass. This mixture acts like magic. 



TO REMOVE OBJECT FROM NOSE 

To remove any object from a child's nose, such as a bean, etc., have the child 
open its mouth, put your mouth to it and blow hard. This rarely fails. 



IRON HOLDERS 

Take old bed ticking, double to four thicknesses about nine inches square, 
turn in edges, stitch around outside, also several times through center. Use these 
and avoid burning your hands. 

A CURE FOR CROUP 

A towel wet with very cold water wrapped around the neck and chest will 
cure the worst case of croup in five minutes. This is much better than drugs, as 
it does not debilitate. Hot water is sometimes recommended, but cold water 
is much quicker and more effective, as it breaks up the congestion at once. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 159 



TO CLEAN A PAINT BRUSH 

To clean a dry, hard paint brush, pound it with a hammer until the bristles 
are broken apart, then use a comb to separate the bristles. Soak in turpentine. 



SCORCHED SPOT 

To remove a scorched spot from clothing, hang in the bright sun until it 
disappears. 



RICE IN THE SALT 
Put a few grains of rice in the salt shaker to keep the salt broken up. 



COAL OIL ON DUST CLOTH 

Use a dust cloth slightly dampened with coal oil, and the dust will not fly, 
and the furniture will always shine. 



TO STARCH DARK LAWNS 

Some people have trouble starching dark lawns because the starch will 
show. To avoid this, use gum-arabic. To starch a dress, take one heaping tea- 
spoonful of gum-arabic. Dissolve in a httle warm water, then add enough 
water to wet the dress. This makes it crisp and it can be ironed in the same 
way as other starched goods. 

THE SUN SPOILS MIRRORS 
Mirrors are spoiled if exposed continually to the sun. 



TO REMOVE IRON RUST SPOTS 

To remove iron rust spots, put salt on the spot after the latter is well wet 
with lemon juice and then placed in the sunshine. 



ROUGH HANDS 

For chapped or rough hands use lemon and glycerine in equal proportions. 
A little rose-water and alcohol added to this mixture is nice. The alcohol pre- 
vents the lemon from souring and will keep it fresh for any length of time. 



160 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO CURE HICCOUGHS 
A lump of sugar saturated with vinegar will cure hiccoughs. 



INK STAINS 
Ripe tomatoes will remove ink and other stains from white cloth. 



OLD SILK LEAVES NO LINT 

Old, soft silk cloths make the best dust rags for the parlor, as they leave no 
lint on polished furniture. 

TO PREVENT STARCH FROM STICKING 

To prevent starch from sticking to the irons, add a pinch of sugar and let 
it come to a boil. 



A CLEAN TEA-KETTLE 

Keep a clam or oyster shell in the tea-kettle and Ume will not form on the 
sides of the kettle. 



BLUEBERRY PIE 

Blueberry pie is much improved by adding the juice of one-half lemon to 
each pie. 

TO DRIVE AWAY ANTS 

Sprigs of arbor vit* scattered around the shelves where food and sugar are 
kept will drive away black ants. 

CANNING BLACKBERRIES 

To prevent blackberries, when canned, from being hard, fill the jars with the 
fruit, then place them in a kettle and cook until the fruit is soft. Remove from 
the fire, fill with a hot syrup and seal. 



DYEING STRAW HATS 

Straw hats can be dyed any tint desired by diluting artists' oil paints with 
gasohne and applying with a bristle brush. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 161^ 

EASILY FOLDED CLOTHES 

Leave the clothes on the grass or clotheslines until the dew has fallen con- 
siderably at night, then fold for the morrow's ironing. In no other way can they 
be dampened so easily and so well. 



AN ORIGINAL REFRIGERATOR 

When one is living 'n small quarters, say in a " flat " or apartments for light 
housekeeping, and has no refrigerator, a good substitute is to take a good-sized 
tin, say an old coal-oil can. Lay some empty pint bottles (beer or porter) length- 
wise on the bottom, place your ice on top of them and as the ice melts the water 
will run into the bottles and keep the ice much longer. You can then place your 
food, butter, milk, etc., around the ice and have it fresh and cool. 



TAPIOCA JELLY 

Tapioca jelly is excellent for an invalid. Soak one breakfast-cupful of tapioca 
in three cups of water over night. In the morning put it in a double boiler, 
with a cup of hot water, and let it simmer until clear, stirring often. Flavor with 
juice of half a lemon and two tablespoonfuls of wine. Pour in cups and set 
away until perfectly cold. Cream and suger may be served with this jelly. 



HINTS TO COOKS 

To prevent fish from falling apart when boiling, add a little vinegar to the 
water. 

Fish will scale more easily if dipped in hot water. 

Grease the inside edge of the pan in which chocolate is being made, and it 
will not boil over. 

Cheese may be kept from molding by wrapping in a cloth wet in cider 
vinegar. 

The "taste" may be removed from wooden pails and bowls by scalding 
with boiling water and soda. 

In making bean soup, add one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour, 
rubbed together to prevent beans settUng to the bottom. 



TO KEEP BUTTER 

Boil together three gallons of water, one-half gallon of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one of saltpeter, boil three or four hours and when cool strain into a 
large stone jar. As the butter is made, wrap in clean cloths, in one pound or 
half-pound pieces, and keep a weight on, to keep under the water; butter wiU 
keep sweet and fresh for months in this way. 



162 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

A GOOD CEMENT 

A cement made by adding a teaspoonful of glycerine to a gill of glue is a 
great convenience in the kitchen, and is especially good for fastening leather, 
paper or wood to metal. 

SAVING SUGAR IN JELLIES 

In making jellies or jam, sweeten to taste and add three heaping teaspoonfuls 
of cornstarch dissolved in a little water to every quart of fruit. It jeUies beauti- 
fully, tastes just as good and saves one- third of the sugar ordinarily used. 



A NIGHT LIGHT 

A candle can be made to burn all night in a sick room or elsewhere when a 
dull light is wished, by putting finely powdered salt on the candle until it reaches 
the blackened part of the wick. In this way a mild and steady hght may be kept 
through the night from a small piece of candle. 



COLD ON THE LUNGS 

For cold on the lungs, use a poultice of roasted onions or poultice of hops 
and cornmeal. 

To heal and expand the lungs, inhale steam from milk and water from the 
spout of a common teapot. 

AN INEXPENSIVE HAMMOCK 

A cheap and comfortable hammock may be easily made by taking two 
burlap sacks, two strong sticks the length of both sacks, and three sticks the width 
of the sacks. Put one at each end of the long sticks and the third about ten 
inches from one end. Fasten these to the long sticks firmly. Now take the sacks 
and pull one on at each end, and sew together in the middle with strong string, 
and the hammock is finished. A piece of burlap may be fringed and sewed to the 
sides if desired. 



TO FIT NEW SHOE 

To break in a new pair of shoes, that they may be comfortable at once to 
tender or swollen feet, put cold water in a large pan till the bottom is covered for 
one-half or three-quarters of an inch. Place both new shoes carefully in the 
water, let them stay ten minutes. Take out shoes, wipe the soles, put them 
on, and walk around for a short time. The shoes, being danip on the bottom, 
will conform at once to the shape of the feet and soon will be "as easy as an 
old shoe." 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 163 

TO CURE HEADACHE 

To cure headache or stop pain in any part of body, wring piece of flannel 
out in hot water, apply and cover with heavy flannel. Alternate with cold 
water. This will ease any pain, and is better than headache powders and other 
dangerous drugs. 

REMOVING STONES FROM PEACHES 

In preparing peaches for the cans, most people pare them first, then cut 
them in half, and they are quite hkely to break in removing the pit. I find 
that by cutting them in half before paring, the pit is easily removed without 
breaking the peach. 

A LAMP HINT 

To prevent lamps from smoking, wash the wick thoroughly in warm water 
with a little soap dissolved in it; then rinse in clean water and let dry; after it 
is dry soak the wick in strong vinegar for an hour, then dry. If this is done every 
week, you won't be troubled with smoky lamp chinmeys. 



WHOOPING-COUGH CURE 

Boil one pint of molasses and one-half cupful of vinegar together for twenty 
minutes. Let cool, then add a dessert-spoonful of paregoric and a spoonful of 
laudanum, and bottle for use. Dose: a small teaspoonful, when coughing. 
If taken properly, this will cure a case of whooping-cough in six or seven days. 



TREATMENT OF SEVERE WOUNDS 

Very often death from lockjaw results from the woimd of a rusty nail in 
some part of the body. There is a perfect and simple remedy for such wounds. 
As soon as possible, smoke the wound well with a woolen cloth. Twenty minutes 
in the smoke will take the pain out of the worst inflammation arising from such 
a wound. This has been fre'uently tested. 



RELIEF FOR NEURALGIC PAINS 

A certain relief for neuralgic pains will be found in the following recipe. 

Heat one pint of salt — smoking hot — then put it into a cloth sack and insert 
into the salt one-fourth of an ounce of camphor gum. Apply at once to the 
part affected, instantly covering the sack with several thicknesses of cloth, to 
prevent the escape of fumes of the camphor, which escape like steam or smoke. 
The effect is almost magical. It is a fine remedy for earache. 



164 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO RENEW GILT FRAMES 

Gilt frames can be cleaned by wiping them with a small sponge moistened 
with oil of turpentine. Wet the sponge only just sufficient to take off the dirt 
and fly marks, then allow the frames to dry themselves. 



USES OF SALT 

Salt in solution is an antidote to many poisons. 

A pinch of salt added to prepared mustard prevents it souring. 

Cut flowers may be kept fresh by adding salt to the water. 

Brooms soaked in hot water wear better and do not break. 

Weak and tired eyes are refreshed by bathing with warm water and salt. 

Lemon and salt removes stains from the fingers. Do not use soap afterward. 

Weak ankles should be rubbed with a solution of salt water and alcohol. 



SPICED GRAPES 

Take six povmds of sugar and put in a preserve kettle with a quart of vinegar, 
let boil, flavor with cinnamon, nutmeg and mace and spice cloves. Take ten 
pounds of ripe grapes and put in jars, pour the syrup over boiling hot, seal, and 
set in a cool place. 

KEEPS SALAD DRESSING FROM CURDLING 

When salad dressing is liable to curdle, a small pinch of soda dropped in 
will prevent it from doing so. 



TO CLEAN AND MIRROR VELVET 

The mirror velvet which is so much used at times is easily renewed at home. 
Upon a perfectly smooth ironing-board place the velvet, with the pile side up, 
and cover it with a thin wet cloth. This should be well shaken, to take out the 
wrinkles caused by wringing it. With a moderately hot iron press the damp 
cloth, being careful to press in the same direction in which the pile of the velvet 
runs. When you have gone over the entire surface, smooth the cloth and press 
directly upon the face of the velvet. Care must be taken not to move the iron 
a particle except in the one direction. If the pile is long, the pressing may be 
done as above without the damp cloth. Velvet trimmings, etc., can, by mirroring, 
be made nearly as fresh as new. To clean velvet, brush it thoroughly to remove 
the dust, and wash it in gasoline. This is done exactly as one would wash a 
cotton or linen article in water, by rubbing between the hands. If the velvet 
is much soiled, rinse in clean gasoHne. In using gasoline, its explosive nature 
should always be kept in mind. It should never be handled near a fire or light, 
or even in the same room with either. 

/ 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 165 

KEEP TANSY IN YOUR FURS 

Tansy is a sure preventive of moths. If the leaves are sprinkled freely about 
woolens and furs, they will never be moth-eaten. 



DUSTING FURNITURE 

Dust carved furniture with a new paint brush, which will find the dust in 
the deepest parts of the work. 



KEEPS STOCKINGS "FAST BLACK" 

A little vinegar added to rinse water for black stockings will keep them a 
fast black. 



TO KEEP MACHINE BELT FROM SLIPPING 

If the band of your sewing machine is too loose and slips when sewing, put 
a few drops of castor oil in the groove under it, and it will be quickly tightened. 



TO PROTECT TABLECLOTH 

In homes where there are children, and all eat at one table, take a piece of 
white oilcloth about a foot wide and the size round of the table, have the edges 
pinked or plain, and place under the plates. It can be removed after each meal, 
leaving the cover spotless, and it is not unsightly. 



CORN MEAL, A SUBSTITUTE FOR SOAP 

If, for any reason, one does not like to use soap on the hands, an excellent 
substitute may be found in fine granulated cornmeal. Moisten the hands, then 
apply a little meal, rub in well and then rinse off in warm water. This will re- 
move soiled places, will not set stains and will leave the hands free from any of 
the unpleasant effects of soap. 

HOW TO BOIL WATER FOR DRINKING 

In many kinds of sickness, especially among children, boiled water is a 
necessity. I'o boil it would seem to be a very simple thing, and yet but few 
people know how to boil it properly. The secret lies in taking good, fresh water, 
putting it into a clean kettle already quite warm, and setting the water to boiling 
quickly, and taking it right off the stove before it is spoiled. To let it steam and 
simmer and evaporate until the good water is in the atmosphere, and the lime 
and iron and dregs only left in the kettle, makes a great many people sick, and 
is worse than no water at all. Water boiled in this way and flavored with a few 
drops of lemon juice makes a cool and refreshing drink for little sufferers. 



166 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

MAKES SOLES LAST LONGER 

To make shoe soles last, soak them in linseed oil for one or two days; do not 
get any oil on the uppers, as the oil makes them stiff. This will make them last 
twice as long as they otherwise would. 



BABY'S SHAMPOO 



If you have trouble with the little ones, when giving a shampoo, don't lose 
your patience because they object so strenuously to having soapsuds splashed 
in their eyes. Take a napkin by the opposite corners and roll until the remaining 
corners are formed into a pad. Pass this around the baby's head and tie with 
knot at nape of neck; all superfluous water and soapsuds will be absorbed by 
the pad, so formed, and baby will be sweeter and so will you. 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

Pick over the beans carefully. Put them in an eaithen dish large enough to 
give them plenty of room to swell. Sprinkle on them a teaspoonful of cooking 
soda and then pour enough boihng water over them to cover them when swollen. 
Let them stand over night. In the morning wash them thoroughly in cold 

Put them in the bean-pot, use sugar to taste — about four teaspoonfuls to a 
pint of beans is a good rule. Then lay the salt pork on top. A piece of dry red 
pepper is good for seasoning. Use a little salt if you do not care to use too 
much pork. Some object to using pork and in that case they can use a lump of 
nice butter. 

Then fill the pot, not too full of water at first, as it is hable to run over, 
and put them in the oven and bake from twelve to twenty-four hours, putting 
in fresh water as it cooks out. 

MEALY BAKED POTATOES 

Cut a snip off the end of potatoes before placing in the oven to bake. The 
steam escapes and leaves the potato mealy. 



BOILED CHESTNUTS 

A comfortable way of eating boiled chestnuts: Pare a bit of shell from the 
larger end of each nut, and boil for twenty minutes in salted water. They are 
then eaten conveniently from the sinuating tip of a coffee spoon — chestnuts on 
the half-shell, as it were, properly accompanied by a draught of sweet cider. 
With a small, sharp knife, a quart of chestnuts can be prepared for boiUng in 
ten minutes or less. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 167 



AS THE BAKER DOES IT 

Wash the top of pies with sweet milk before baking to give them the rich 
golden brown that bakery pies have. 



BEATING EGGS 

When you want to beat eggs to a froth quickly, have them almost ice-cold 
before you break them. 

SPICED PRUNES 

When stewing prunes add about seven or eight whole cloves to a pound of 
the fruit. They give a new and deUcious flavor that is hked by all 



TO CLEAN STRAINERS 

When your strainers become clogged, a lump of coarse salt, moistened and 
vigorously appUed, will clean them. 



CURE FOR IVY POISON 

The best and quickest cure for ivy poison is hot water. Take a soft rag, 
folded several times, dip it in hot, not warm, water, and apply to the affected 
part for three or four minutes, just as hot as can be borne without scalding; re- 
peat often, do not rub, touch gently. If done when it first appears, nothing more 
will be needed; it allays the itchiiig at once. 



CLEANSING, ETC. 

If when putting up fruit some of the nice juices are canned, you have some- 
thing ready for seasonmg mincemeat for Thanksgiving and Christmas pies, with 
very little trouble. 

Wash white-washed walls with strong vinegar-water before putting on paper. 

If light cotton goods are put into cold salt water thoroughly heated, and 
rinsed while hot in cold water, there will be no more shrinking and this will set 
the colors, excepting fancy colors. 

Putting a httle butter in cooked starch will make the irons go more smoothly 
on ironing day. 

Ammonia used on beds and mattresses will keep them clean and free from 
bugs. 

To clean lamp chimneys, rub first with cloth wet in kerosene, then with 
soft paper or cloth. 



168 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TEACHING BABY TO KICK 

Make baby's night-gown long and put a draw string in the bottom instead 
of fastening the bed-covering with safety pins. 



TO BAKE POTATOES 

Before putting potatoes in the oven to bake, grease them. When the 
potatoes are done, the skins, instead of being thick and hard as is usually the case, 
will be thin and tender, and the quahty of the potato greatly improved. 



BED-MAKING MADE EASY 

Put two loops made of strong tape or cloth, through which you can insert 
your hand, on each side of a mattress, and see how much more easily it can be 
lifted or turned. 



CLEANING CARPET-SWEEPERS 

If you want your carpet-sweeper to do good work, take the brush out and 
comb it occasionally. Do not throw your sweepers away when they fail to sweep, 
thinking the brush is worn out. The brush will last as long as the sweeper. 
Just have the man of the house lower the spring that controls the brush. In 
case a mouse eats the brush a new one can be bought at the furniture dealer's 
for fifty cents. 

UTILIZING A CELLAR-WAY 

On one side place three grape baskets, nailed one above the other, and into 
these put paper sacks, wrapping paper and newspapers, respectively. Below 
these have a sn~all box in which to put all the wrapping cord. So if there is a 
bundle to do up, a fowl to singe or any need of paper or cord, you always have a 
supply on hand. 

Also keep brooms here on little racks made of two nails driven in the wall 
just far enough apart to admit the broom handle between them. The cool 
air of the cellar-way keeps the brooms soft and pliable. 

Have a narrow shelf on one side for shoe-blacking, stove-blacking, machine 
oil and other small necessary articles, which are best kept out of sight. 



DRYING RUBBER BOOTS QUICKLY 

When your rubber boots get wet on the inside, fill them with oats that 
have first been heated in an oven to thoroughly dry them. If very wet, replace 
the oats two or three times. The oats absorb the moisture. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 169 

CLEANSING GLASS, ETC. 

Alcohol will keep ice from forming on the windows. 

Discolorations on china baking dishes and custard cups can be removed 
with whiting. 

Vinegar will remove paint from window glass. 

Use soda water in washing windows to remove finger-marks, putty stains, etc. 



TO CLEAN PANAMA HATS 

Take half a teaspoonful of equal portions of precipitated sulphur and oxalic 
acid, mix and dissolve in half a tumbler of cold water, then dip a clean sponge 
(not too wet) and pass over the hat until perfectly clean, then place in the sun 
to dry, after which the hat will look like new. Ten cents will cover the entire cost. 



WATERING LITTLE CHICIvS 

The best way to water little chicks is to fill a flat tin nearly full of pebbles, 
and pour in water. The chicks drink in the little pools between the pebbles 
and are kept from getting in the water with their feet. 

To be successful with Uttle chickens you must keep them dry and warm. 



FOR CONSTIPATION 

Mix two cups of fine wheat bran with one cup of pastry flour. Then add 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of saleratus 
dissolved in one and one-quarter cups of sweet milk. Mix well. An egg im- 
proves but is not essential. Bake in gem tins and eat one gem at each meal 
or twice a day as needed. 



COMBING BLANKETS 

We are all partial to soft, fleecy blankets, but alas, they soon lose their beauty 
by the fleece wearing up in little rolls. They can be renewed by taking a clean 
coarse comb and combing lengthwise of the blanket, to a smooth, fleecy blanket 
again. 



TEETHING BABIES 

If mothers with teething babies will feed them crushed rice, it will help cut 
the teeth and also cool the fevered gums. And if baby's bowels act too freely, 
give him a bath in water as warm as he can bear it, with a handful of salt thrown 
in it. Let him stay in the bath ten or fifteen minutes, keeping the water warm 
by adding hot water from time to time. Repeat bath two or three times a day if 
necessary. 



170 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

A BUDGET OF HINTS 

The worst ink stains may be removed by soaking in cold milk and changing 
the milk as fast as it becomes colored with ink. 

To hang up a broom bore a hole through the handle large enough to slip 
over a nail. 

A sure cure for erysipelas is to bathe with tincture of lobelia. 

To clean bottles, take warm suds and put in a few shot, shake well and rinse. 

To clean paint brushes, soak in spirits of turpentine; if you do not have 
turpentine, take kerosene oil. 

To take out iron-rust in clothes do not use oxalic acid, but cut a lemon in 
halves and rub on the spot; then rub with salt and lay in the sun and it will all 
come out. If it is bad, try several times. 

To take grease out of silk, rub with buckwheat flour. 

When washing Unen embroidered with white silk use cold water. Keep hot 
water away from white silk and it will retain its whiteness. 

Rub hinges with a feather dipped in oil and they will not creak. 

Linen embroidered with colored silks should be washed quickly in suds 
made with castile soap, rinsed thoroughly, rolled in sheets and then ironed. 

Boil three or four onions in a pint of water, apply with a soft brush to gilt 
frames, and flies will keep off them. 

A spoonful of vinegar put into the water in which meats or fowls are boiled 
makes them tender. 

Melted paraffine poured over the top of jelly will prevent molding. 

To remove skins of cooked beets, let them lie a few minutes in cold water 
and the skins will slip off easily. 

To prevent a bruise from turning purple, rub fresh lard upon it. 

A little cream of tartar or vinegar improves boiled frosting. It will not grain 
so readily and will be more creamy. 

When crackers become soft from long standing, put them in a pan and bake 
them over. They will be as crisp as fresh ones. 

Chestnuts and walnuts may be kept a year by packing in dry sand. 

If you wish to iron a starched or other garment quickly, sprinkle it with 
hot water instead of cold. 

If boiled or roasted meat is to be eaten cold, wrap a piece of dampened cloth 
around it when it is put away after cooking. It will be more moist and tender 
after this treatment. 

If potatoes for baking are placed on the back of the range or in the warming 
oven until they are heated through, they will bake in less than half the time when 
placed in the oven. 

A dish of water in a hot oven will prevent food from burning. 

A spoonful of sugar put in the water when boihng turnips will prevent their 
tasting bitter. 

To restore a faded carpet, dip it in strong salt and water. 

To remove stains from the hands wash in the juice of a ripe tomato. 

A teaspoonful of burnt sugar will give an amber color to soup made from 
white meats. 

Half a lemon placed in the water in which dish towels and kitchen cloths are 
soaked is said to sweeten them wonderfully. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 171 



MAKING STOVE-PIPES FIT 

If you should have an odd size stove, and your piping is too large for it, cut a 
slit about five inches up one end, lap over the ends and fasten with a brad. This 
is an easy, simple and very effectual manner to make the piping fit. 



THE SEWING MACHINE 

If, when sewing on a machine, the upper thread keeps snapping without 
apparent cause, reverse the bobbin in the shuttle; i. e., take the bobbin out and 
put it back the other end foremost. 



COOKING CORN MEAL 

To prevent corn cakes and bread from having a raw taste, mix the meal 
with milk a few hours before baking the bread. When ready to bake it, add the 
salt, egg, a spoonful of flour and last of all the soda, or if sweet milk be used, add 
baking powder. 

Mush, to be good, must be boiled a long time. Boil it thoroughly, being 
careful not to make it too thick, then place closely covered in the oven where 
it is kept at boiling heat for sev^eral hoiu-s. 



SAVING SAFETY-RAZOR BLADES 

If you own a safety razor (such as the Gillette) strop the blade very lightly 
on a soft strop before and after using, and the blade will last three times as long. 



FILLING A HOT-WATER BOTTLE 

The following directions were given by a hospital nurse : Heat the water to 
near boiling, fill bottle about one-third full, and before putting in stopper, lay 
bag flat and double it over. This will prevent the accumulation of steam, 
which makes a bag hard and unyielding. 

WASH YOUR COFFEE 

How many housewives see to it that the green coffee purchased from the 
grocer is carefully washed before being roasted? Many otherwise careful house- 
keepers empty the coffee from the parcel in which it was bought into the pan 
for roasting, never thinking that they are doing an unclean thing. 

Coffee is often dyed to give it a better color, and aside from this, there is 
such a quantity of real dirt upon it that it really astonishes people who never 
washed it. Wash your coffee. 



172 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

REMEMBER THIS ON JULY 4TH 

If your boy gets his eyes burnt with powder while shooting fireworks, relieve 
the pain while waiting for the doctor by pouring sweet oil in his eyes. 



HANDY HOME-MADE FUNNEL 

Half an eggshell with a hole in the end makes a handy little funnel for 
bottles. If the eggshell is browned in the stove slightly it will be more durable. 



A BEEF'S HEART AND TONGUE 

When meat of all kinds is high, as at the present time, it seems to me that 
the most economical meat to buy once or twice a month is the heart and tongue 
of a beef. In small towns in the Middle West, the two will cost about forty 
cents. Wash the heart carefully to remove the blood. Use a vegetable scrul>- 
bing brush and rub the tongue until thorouglily clean. Put together in a granite 
iron kettle, cover with boiling water, season with summer savory, and cook 
three or four hours. Let both stand in the broth until cold, and slice one-half 
or two-thirds of each and you will have some of the most delicious of cold meats. 
Enough for two or three meals for an ordinary family. Carefully remove all the 
fat from the top of the broth and put in the doughnut kettle. Take about half 
of the broth for stock for a vegetable soup. Put the meat that is left through 
a meat chopper, add a cup of walnut meats (also put through the chopper), two 
cups of cracker crumbs, three well-beaten eggs and the unused half of the broth. 
Mix thoroughly, season to taste, and if the mixture is not quite moist enough, 
add milk or water. Bake slowly in a well-buttered, deep and narrow cake tin 
for an hour and a half and you will have a delicious meat loaf that will last tliree 
or four meals. The loaf may be made without the nut meats, but has a finer 
flavor and is more nutritious with them. 



HOT WATER AS A MEDICINE 

Hot water, if used with common sense, might save many a doctor's bill, and 
many a course of drug treatment as well. For bruises, sprains and similar ac- 
cidental hurts it should be applied as hot as can be borne, by means of a cloth 
dipped in the water and laid on the wounded part, or by immersion, if convenient, 
and the treatment kept up until rehef is obtained For pains resulting from in- 
digestion, a cupful of hot water taken in sips will often relieve at once. A flannel 
folded in several thicknesses, wrung out of the hot water and laid over the seat 
of the pain, and renewed every ten minutes or oftener will aid the relief in severe 
cases. For insomnia, when "too tired to sleep," as we sometimes say, bathe 
the neck and temples, the back of the neck particularly. This seems to relax 
the muscles and veins that supply the brain. The same treatment will refresh 
during the day, and a headache may often be relieved by it. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 173 

POWDERED CHARCOAL FOR BURNS 

For scalds or burns cover the burn with finely powdered charcoal; use dry 
and it will stop pain at once. 

HOME-MADE FIRE-EXTINGUISHER 

Take twenty pounds of common salt and ten pounds of muriate of ammonia, 
to be had of any druggist, and dissolve in seven gallons of water. When dissolved 
it can be bottled and kept in each room in the house, to be used in an emergency. 
In case of fire, one or two bottles should be immediately thrown with force into 
the burning place, so as to break them. The fire will certainly be extinguished. 



HOW TO PREVENT COUGHING 

Coughing is the worst thing for a cough, and in most instances of cough 
there is more coughing than is necessary to subserve the purpose of the cough, 
i. e., to remove offending material. 

The following directions will help one to avoid coughing in all instances, while 
in the more mild cases it may stop the cough altogether after a little perseverance. 
When tempted to cough take a deep breath, filling if possible every air cell, 
holding it until the warming, soothing effect comes or so long as is reasonable, 
and mark the mollifying result on the cough, which, even when the latter seems 
unavoidable, will often be found under control. 

Repeat if necessary. The explanation of this is that there is a liberation of 
nitrogen in the air cells which has a quieting, sedative effect on the irritated 
mucous membrane. 



HEALING PROPERTIES OF WATER 

There is no remedy of such general application and none so easily obtain- 
able as water, and yet nine persons out of ten will pass it by in an emergency 
to seek for something of less efficacy. There are but few cases of illness where 
water should not occupy the highest place as a remedial agent. 

A strip of flannel or a napkin folded lengthwise and wrung out of hot water 
and applied around the neck of a child who has croup will usually bring relief in 
a few minutes. A towel folded several times, then quickly wrung out of hot 
water and immediately appHed over the seat of the pain in toothache or neuralgia, 
will afford prompt relief. This treatment in colic works hke magic. Cases on 
record, having resisted other treatment for hours, have yielded to this treatment 
in ten minutes Pieces of cotton batting dipped in hot water, then applied to 
all sores and new cuts, bruises, and sprains is the treatment now generally adopted 
in hospitals. Hot water taken freely a half hour before bedtime is an excellent 
cathartic in the case of constipation, while it has a most soothing effect on the 
stomach and bowels. This treatment continued for a few months, together with 
proper attention to diet, will alleviate mild cases of dyspepsia. 



174 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SWEEPING MATTING 

A carpet sweeper can be used successfully on straw mattings if moved across 
the breadths. 



SASH-CURTAIN RODS 

When putting a sash-curtain rod into the rim of a curtain, it quite often 
sticks. This may be avoided by putting a thimble on the end of the rod. 



CLEANSING THE BROOM 

There is no more fruitful scatterer of germs than the common broom, there- 
fore it should be frequently cleansed. Dipping in hot soap-suds not only makes 
the broom clean, but lengthens its time of usefulness materially. 



CLEANING SOILED BOOKS 

Stains on the edges of book-leaves can be removed with sandpaper; a slice 
of bread will clean covers soiled by handhng. 



STARCHING FRINGED ARTICLES 

When starching toilet covers or anything that has fringe trimming, fold 
the cover twice and gather the fringe tightly into the hand and hold it firmly 
while you dip the middle of the cover into the starch. When dry shake the fringe 
well, comb carefully with a large toilet comb, and it will fall as softly and prettily 
as when new. 



HOME CLEANSERS 

Brown paper moistened in vinegar will poUsh your tins until they shine like 
silver. 

A shce of Irish potato will clean oil paintings without injury, and dipped in 
soda will brighten silver. 



SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL 

One heaping tablespoonf ul of butter, one roimded tablespoonf ul of flour, put 
in pan on the stove and stir until hot and smooth, then add one cupful of milk. 
Now put in a bowl separate from the above one even tablespoonful of sugar, one 
even teaspoonful of salt, one heaping teaspoonful of mustard, one egg and a 
scant half cup of vinegar. Mix well and add to the other mixture and cook until 
thick; if it cm-dies it may be made smooth by beating with an egg-beater. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 175 



PRESERVES WHITE FABRICS 

A white dress, or other white article, if wrapped in blue paper, can then be 
laid away for years without turning yellow. 



A DELICATE PERFUME 

A good perfumed toilet soap placed in the bureau lends a delicate and lasting 
perfume to underwear and toilet accessories. Its advantages over sachet powders, 
which lose their scent in a short time, are easily seen. Sandalwood and violet in 
in the same drawer produce a delightful combination. 



A GREAT SAVING IN IRONING 

After sprinkling, fold your napkins, towels, etc., as you want them to be 
folded when they are ironed, smoothing them with the hands as you fold them. 
The ironing will then be much easier. 



AN INK ERASER 

An ink eraser is not always at hand. Apply your moistened finger to the 
word to be removed, then use an ordinary pencil eraser. The result will please 
you. 

SALT TO CLEAN MARBLE 

Always keep a cup of salt on your lavatory. It is invaluable for cleaning 
the marble, and something one always has at hand. 



NOODLES 

Two-thirds of a cup of thick, sweet cream and milk, taken from the cream 
jar, one egg, a pinch of salt, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and 
flour enough to make a stiff dough. Roll this out in three thin sheets and rub 
with flour, and let dry from nine o'clock till noon, then roll up and cut in thin 
strips a fourth of an inch wide, shake, rub and drop in boiling soup, and cook ten 
minutes without lifting lid. 

CURE FOR APPENDICITIS 

Half a wine-glass of sweet oil (olive oil), taken two or three times a week, is 
a preventive of appendicitis. A pint taken at two doses has cured a developed 
case. Olive oil is also beneficial to persons inchned to pulmonary diseases. 



176 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

NOVEL USE FOR NUTMEG GRATER 
Use a nutmeg grater to remove burnt places in a cake. 

SLIPPING ROSE BUSHES 

Rose bushes can be easily started for growing by pulling off a slip at the 
joint and planting in the ground with a Uttle sand. Cover with an inverted 
glass can. Let remain all winter. 



THREADING THE SEWING MACHINE 

A machine needle may be threaded much easier if a piece of white material 
is held back of it. 



A CONVENIENT SCREEN 

A screen may be made very convenient when bathing and dressing a baby 
by placing a number of pockets on the inside to contain the necessary articles. 
The screen is also useful to keep off the draught. 



SPACE ECONOMIZER 

To economize space in a bedroom, fasten a shelf, holding a bowl, to the inside 
of a closet door with large braces or brackets. Smaller bracket-shelves may 
be fastened to the door higher up, to be used for soap dish, shaving mug, etc. 



TO CLEAN LAMP CHIMNEYS 

To poUsh your lamp chimneys so they will simply shine, first, wash in soap- 
suds, rinse and dry. Then use an old newspaper to polish with. 



TO SALT PORK 

In salting pork, sprinkle it generously with ground black pepper and add 
a httle saltpeter. This will keep it fresh and sweet, and it also keeps any bugs 
or flies from the pork. 

FOR NEW BROOMS 

Dip your new brooms in scalding water (soapsuds are preferable) and they 
will last twice as long as ordinarily. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 177 



COOKING SOUR FRUIT 

Use a pinch of baking soda in cooking sour fruit, and it will not require 
more than half the ordinary amount of sugar. 



A NEW SHOE POLISH 

The white of an egg makes an excellent shoe polish for patent o.- ordinary- 
leather. Clean the shoes of mud, etc., and apply with a cloth. It produces a 
gloss that would satisfy the most fastidious, renders the leather soft, and pre- 
vents cracking. 



REMOVES INK STAINS 

To remove ink stains from the fingers, dampen the head of an ordinary 
match and rub briskly on stain. 



SMOOTH FLATIRONS 

Lard (unsalted) is better than beeswax to make flatirons slip easily. Fold 
a cloth several thicknesses, put a lump of lard the size of a walnut within the folds 
and rub the iron over it. Same cloth will last many weeks by folding clean 
side out and adding more lard when needed. 



TO CLEAN KETTLES 

Granite kettles or dishes which have been burned, no matter how badly, 
may be cleaned perfectly by fiUing above burned depth with two parts soft 
water and one part washing fluid and placing them on stove to simmer hghtly 
one-half hour, when sand-soap or wire dish-washer will remove it easily. If 
it does not come off first time, repeat or increase quantity of washing fluid, and 
in most obstinate cases double the quantity of fluid, and let stand in dish a day or 
more, which will clean it thoroughly. Do not throw solution away. Put in 
bottle or jar to use for same purpose again. 



SAVING TAILOR'S BILLS 

The economical helpmate may save tailors' bills by mending the ankles of her 
husband's trousers with buttonhole stich. 

When they begin to fray out, buttonhole the worn places, using a fine 
needle, fine black silk and taking a short stitch. 

They can be turned up later, as the stitching presses out flat if carefully 
done. 



178 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

CLEAN BED-CLOTHES 

If a strip of the material of which a " comforter " is made, eight inches wide, 
is sewed by hand along each end of it, the "comforter" will last much longer, 
as this strip can be taken off, washed and replaced, thus insuring cleanhness and 
longer service. 

FOR TONSILITIS 

Take equal parts of lamp-oil, spirits of turpentine and camphor. Mix 
well and swab the throat several times a day. 



FOR CROUP 

Save the lining of a fowl's gizzard, and when dry pulverize and mix with 
molasses or honey. 

A HANDY SOAP-DISH 

A handy soap-dish can be made by punching fifteen or twenty holes in the 
bottom of a tin quart cup in such a way that the suds will not drain out when 
cup is hung up. Keep cup hung on a nail by the kitchen sink, and pour water 
through it for dish-washing, etc., thus saving time, inconvenience and soap. 

Mak a kettle scraper by folding in the edges of a piece of window screen 
and fastening with fine wire. 

TO BEAT EGGS 

If the whites of eggs are chilled before using, they can be beaten twice as 
well in half the time usually required. A pinch of salt added just before beating 
prevents the whites from falling, as is sometimes the case when the beaten mass 
is allowed to stand. 



RELIEF FOR INFLAMMATION 

In cases of severe inflammation and swelling, tallow if melted and applied 
hot on a woolen cloth, will give relief and has been known to cure a case of ap- 
pendicitis. Should be changed often enough to keep hot. 



CURE FOR A COUGH 

Take a small piece of rosin and crush it fine to the amount of half a tea- 
spoonful; can be taken with any kind of favorite sauce. It will induce sleep 
and there will be no coughing all night. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 179 

CARE OF THE HANDS 

Ground mustard is excellent to cleanse the hands after having handled 
strong-smelling substances. Wash the hands in vinegar after having them in 
soapsuds and they will be soft and white and not will chap. 

To remove fruit stains from the hands, wash in clear water, dry slightly and 
then hold them over a lighted match. 



TO KEEP EGGS FRESH 

Eggs can be kept perfectly fresh for a very long time by placing each one 
separately in a small paper sack and tying securely to exclude the air. 



PRESERVING HINT 

When putting up fruit, roll your jars in hot water before filling them and 
they will not crack. Fill while stUl hot and they will be all right. 



FOR NURSING MOTHERS 
Apply glycerine and camphor in equal parts to cracked and sore nipples. 



REMEDY FOR TONSILITIS 

An effective remedy for tonsilitis is two grains of bichromate of potash dis- 
solved in an ordinary drinking glass of water used as a gargle every two or three 
hours. 

In case of croup, one-half teaspoonful of this gargle swallowed will loosen 
the mucus. 



TO PAINT CRACKED WALLS 

Mix white wine vinegar with an equal part of water, add plaster of paris 
enough to make a thick cream, wet the cracks first with the vinegar and water, 
and then force in the plaster mixture with a flat stick, wiping away the surplus. 

When dry, apply paint, and not one crack will show in either wall or ceiling. 



TO IMPROVE THE DIGESTION 

Prescription to improve the digestion and increase the appetite: Tincture 
of Nux Vomica, two drams. Tincture of Columbo, one ounce. Compound tincture 
of Gentian, three oimces. Dose for an adult, one teaspoonful, to be taken in 
water before each meal. 



180 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SALADS FOR HOT DAYS 

Cucumber and Tomato Salad: Wash and crisp one head of lettuce. Pare 
a sufficient number of fine cucumbers and place in ice water for an hour. Pour 
boiling water over two or three ripe but firm tomatoes, then remove the skins 
and stand them in pounded ice to chill. At serving time, arrange the light- 
green leaves on individual salad plates; cut the cucumbers first into thick rounds, 
then into quarters, heap in the center of the leaves and sprinkle lightly with 
salt and white pepper. Cut the tomatoes into tiiin lengthwise sections and use 
as a garnish. Over all pour a good salad dressing. 

Macedoine Salad : For this most appetizing dish use remnants of cold cooked 
vegetables in palatable proportions, or slice one cold cooked carrot, one 
beet and one potato; cut a few cold cooked string beans and asparagus 
tips into half-inch lengths. Toss all together lightly, add a few cold stewed peas 
and a small onion chopped very fine, marinate with French dressing and stand 
on ice to chill. Then heap in tiny mounds on crisped lettuce leaves for individual 
serving; dress with mayonnaise and garnish with radish ribbons. To make 
these " ribbons," cut a small turnip-shaped breakfast radish round and round into 
thin narrow strips, being careful not to break the strips. 

Cottage Cheese Salad with Tomatoes: Break the cheese into grains, moisten 
with rich, sweet cream, season with salt and white pepper, and rub with the 
back of a silver spoon until thoroughly blended Wash fine, ripe tomatoes and 
cut into tiiick slices. Place each slice on an individual salad plate and cover 
it with the cheese, well heaped toward the center. Dress with mayonnaise 
and garnish with sprigs of watercress. 

Shredded Cabbage Salad: Select firm, white cabbage, shred very fine with 
a sharp knife and sprinkle lightly with salt and white pepper. Rub the yolks 
of three hard-boiled eggs smooth, then blend with them two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one of ground mustard and one-half cup of butter slightly warmed. Stir 
this mixture lightly through the cabbage, then add a cup of good vinegar. Cut 
the whites of the eggs into rings for garnishing the salad, placing in the center 
of each ring a tiny beet cube cut from cold cooked beet. 

Beet and Potato Salad: Cook four medium-sized blood beets tender; 
plunge them into cold water and remove the skins. Chill on ice; cut into small 
cubes and sprinkle lightly with salt and sugar. Have ready four cold boiled 
potatoes, diced and salted to taste. Wash and crisp the inside leaves of a head 
of lettuce, and line a flat salad bowl with them. In the center of the bowl heap 
the diced potatoes, surround with a border of beet cubes, and dress the whole 
with a rich salad dressing. 

CauUflower Salad: Remove the outside green leaves from a small head of 
cauliflower; cut it into quarters, then let it lie in salt water for an hour, to de- 
stroy any possible insect life or eggs not dislodged by washing. Drain, tie in a 
clean cheesecloth bag, and cook one hour in boiling water to which has been 
added one teaspoonful of salt. When done, take from the bag, break into flow- 
erets and chill on ice. At serving time, line a salad bowl with crisped lettuce 
leaves, heap the cauliflower in tiie center, dress with French dressing, and garnish 
with tiny cheese balls. 

Spinach Salad: Wash the spinach through several waters, or until free from 
grit, and cut off the stalks; then boil it in a closely covered saucepan without 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 181 

water for thirty minutes. Drain and chop fine with a sharp knife. Add the 
chopped whites of two eggs and marinate with French dressing. Have ready 
a sufficient number of individual molds or small cups. In the bottom of each 
place a slice of cold boiled egg; fill up with spinach, packing in closely. Stand 
in the refrigerator to chill. Then unmold and serve on a bed of lettuce. Dress 
with mayonnaise. 

A Breakfast Salad: Hull and rinse one quart of fine strawberries. Pare 
tliree oranges and break into thin sections, taking care to remove each portion 
of the white fiber. Place the strawberries in the center of a salad bowl and 
garnish with the orange sections. Pour over the whole the juice of a lemon and 
sprinkle with sugar. 

VETERINARY MEDICINE 

For a horse suffering with an obstinate colic, take two large spoonfuls of 
ground ginger, pour over it a quart or so of hot water; pour into a long-necked 
bottle and force into the mouth of the horse, and compel him to swallow the 
tea. Be careful that the water is not too hot. If not relieved, repeat the dose 
in ten minutes. 

I have used this same remedy for calves when they seemed to be dying, 
and in five or ten minutes have had them on their feet. I use, however, only 
one tablespoonful of the ginger for a calf. 

For scours in calves, break a raw egg into the animal's mouth and force the 
calf to swallow egg and shell; in severe cases, use two eggs. Sometimes I give 
a tablespoonful of sulphur in the milk at feeding time, instead of eggs. 

For a cow in a run-down condition, take a large handful of the inner bark 
of black birch, cover with four quarts of water, and let steep till the decoction 
is strong; then give this quantity in a pailful of warm water every morning for a 
few days. 

I always milk in the stable, and to prevent flies from troubling the cow, I 
cover her with an old sheet or piece of burlap, or any light covering most con- 
venient. 

To insure healthy chickens: for every twelve chickens, add to their moist 
food one tablespoonful of sulphur, once a day; slightly increase the dose of sul- 
phur while chicks are growing, and give it occasionally afterward. 

My favorite harness oil: take such a quantity of fresh lard as you think 
necessary for the amount of harness to be oiled; add just enough kerosene oil 
to "cut" the lard; add lampblack to make a good clear black, and apply while 
warm with a brush. This oil wiU not "gum" and it keeps the leather soft and 
pliable a long time. 



A CLEAN SWEEP 

In sweeping carpets and rugs, after sweeping them and gathering up the 
sweepings moisten cornmeal qviite wet with gasoline and scatter over them and 
sweep again, and you will be surprised how clean and bright they will look. I 
always remove all the furniture I can from the room, and open doors and windows. 
Do not have fire in room as there is danger of gasohne igniting. 



182 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

VEGETABLE SOUPS 

Puree of Potatoes: Boil four large potatoes, two onions, two stalks of celery 
and a sprig of parsley in two quarts of water until quite soft : then pass the whole 
through a colander; return to the fire, season to taste with salt and white pepper, 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter creamed with one of flour, add a pint of sweet 
milk and let boil up once. Then turn into a soup tureen containing one cup 
of whipped cream. 

Cream of Tapioca: Cover one-third of a cup of tapioca with two cups of 
cold water and let stand over night. Then add one quart of fresh sweet milk 
and cook gently for an hour. Add one pint of cream, a minced onion, two stalks 
of celery cut fine and a small blade of mace. Cook twenty minutes, season with 
salt and pepper, stir in one tablespoonf ul of butter and serve. 

Tomato Soup: Stew one quart of tomatoes in one quart of water until 
quite soft; stir in one teaspoonful of soda and allow it to effervesce; then add 
one quart of boiling milk, season nicely with salt, pepper and butter, and cook 
five minutes. A thickening of flour and butter may be added, if desired. 

Vegetable Soup: Put three quarts of boiling water over the fire in a soup 
kettle; add three onions, tliree potatoes, three large tomatoes and a small head 
of cabbage, all chopped fine. Cook gently until the vegetables are tender, then 
stir in one cup of cooked rice and one pint of stewed corn. Pass the mixtxire 
through a colander, return to the fire and boil up once. Then add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter creamed with one of flour, season with salt and pepper, stir 
in one tablespoonful of brown sugar, cook five minutes and serve with toasted 
crackers. 

Asparagus Soup: Cook two bunches of asparagus and a small onion in one 
quart of water until quite soft, then press through a sieve. Add one quart of 
hot milk and return to the fire. Let boil up once, season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and thicken with four tablespoonfuls of butter blended with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Just before serving, add a cup of cream. 

Rice and Celery Soup: Boil a small cup of rice in three pints of milk until 
soft enough to press through a sieve, then add to it the tender white portions of 
two heads of celery grated; put over the fire with one quart of milk and cook 
five minutes. Season with two tablespoonfuls of butter and salt and white 
pepper to taste. 

Onion Soup: Cut fine the white portion of a dozen green onions and cook 
tender in a pint of boiling water to which has been added a httle salt. Then add 
one quart of rich milk. Boil up once, season with salt, pepper and butter. 

Cream of Com Soup: To each quart of grated corn add three pints of 
water, and cook tender. Then stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter blended 
with one of flour. Boil five minutes, season with salt and pepper and add one 
pint of boiling milk. 

Cream of Spinach Soup: Pick over and wash clean two quarts of spinach, 
then cook tender in one quart of water, and rub through a pur6e sieve. Add 
to it one quart of boiling milk, place over the fire, add a thickening of two table- 
spoonfuls of butter creamed with one of flour, cook five minutes, season with 
salt and pepper, and serve. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 183 

THE HANDY CARPET-SWEEPER 

A great deal of hurry and worry can be avoided in the daily routine of house- 
work by learning to "save steps." When your old sweeper becomes worn and 
seemingly useless, don't discard it, but keep it for the lighter work in your up- 
stairs rooms, while your new sweeper may be kept for the heavier carpets down- 
stairs. In that way you will save that tedious rushing up and down stairs which 
is bound to wear on the best of nerves. 



GYPSY-MOTH POISONING 

Put a few drops of Sulpho-Napthol in about a tablespoonful of water and 
apply where the irritation appears on the skin. It will smart at first, but in a 
few minutes all itching sensation will disappear. If the irritation returns, apply 
again until completely cured. 

A BUDGET OF SUGGESTIONS 

When mixing mustard, always use milk instead of water, and the mustard 
will not dry up so quickly. 

Rub magnesia on soiled spots and dainty light colored goods. Put plenty 
on both sides, and when wanted for use again brush well and the spots will be 
gone. 

Alcohol will remove varnish from fabrics. 

To beat eggs quickly add a pinch of salt. 

Prevent brass articles from tarnishing by applying a thin varnish of gum 
shellac and alcohol. 

If soda is used in dishwater, no soap is needed. 



TO ARRANGE FLORAL PIECES 

When arranging floral pieces in which wire frames, covered with lead-foil 
and filled with moss, form the basis of the work, it is hard to get the surface 
closely covered, and the edges hidden. I have found wire hair-pins used as 
staples for fastening flowers and foliage into position the greatest help of any- 
thing I have ever tried. The pins pierce the foil and enter the moss, easily, and 
so make it possible to quickly staple vines, foliage or flowers around the edge 
of the frame or into vacant spots over the face of the piece. Then, too, a flower 
or leaf often persists in standing up when it should lie flat, and, when this happens, 
a hair-pin put across the stem brings it into the required position and holds it 
there. 



LAMP WICKS 

Fray the lower end of a lamp-wick about an inch and it will give a brighter 
and stronger light. 



184 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO CLEAN SPECTACLES 

To prevent the sudden clouding of eye-glasses, in change of atmosphere, on 
entering the warm store or car from the cold street : wash the glasses or spectacles 
in warm, soapy water. The instrument men in the surveyors' camp on Puget 
Sound find this a help to their instruments in the fogs of early spring. 



UNPEELED APPLES 

Do you know that apples for pies are much better if not peeled? In mince 
pies, especially, as the skin adds wonderfully and both the meat and apples may 
be cut with the Enterprise meat chopper. When apples are worth one dollar a 
bushel, this is worth trying. 

FRIED MUSH 

When making mush for frying put a httle milk in the water. It makes 
the mush fry much nicer. 

SNAKE BITE REMEDY 

Here are a few ideas that all who expect to go to the mountains for their 
vacation would do well to remember: 

Chloroform is a sure cure for rattle-snake as well as all other snake bites. 
It will cure even if not used for several hours, though the sooner the better. 
Bind a cloth over the wound and wet thoroughly with chloroform. Repeat 
several times. The bottle may be carried inside of one's waist. I never left our 
tent without it. 

For poison oak dissolve one teaspoonful of concentrated lye in one quart of 
boiling water. Cool and use when ready to go out on a tramp, washing the hands, 
face, ears and neck with it. One of us forgot to apply it to her neck, consequently 
the eruption appeared there and nowhere else. 

For bee stings and bites of poisonous spiders apply concentrated ammonia. 



DELICIOUS CABBAGE 

The following directions for cooking cabbage were furnished by a physician 
who asserted that the dish cooked in this fashion could be eaten by persons with 
the most deUcate digestion, as the boiling water removed the objectionable 
quahties which usually render cabbage so difficult to digest. The taste is also 
much more delicate when cooked in this way. 

Cut cabbage in quarters and boil steadily in salted water for fifteen minutes. 
Remove from the water and allow it to become perfectly cold. Tlicn shred iu 
pieces, place in saucepan and cover with milk. Simmer slowly for one hour and 
a half. Season with butter, salt and pepper. The milk will not curdle if sim- 
mered very slowly. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 185 

TOMATOES 

Tomatoes should be freely used when in season. Served ice-cold on a hot 
morning, with a Httle ohve oil, salt and pepper, they cool the system and freshen 
appetite. 

Peeled, sUced and stuffed with minced onion and bits of cucumber and their 
own pulp, in crisp lettuce leaves, with a heaping spoonful of mayonnaise on each 
we have a salad that is tempting for mid-day luncheon. Peeled, chilled and 
left whole, with mayonnaise, they are a delicious dinner salad. 

A sharp knife should be used to pare them. I do not approve of pouring 
hot water over them to remove the skins. Put them on ice and chill them thor- 
oughly. 

Stuffed tomatoes: Choose firm, round tomatoes, cut a small piece off the 
stem end and scoop out all the seeds, sprinkle the interior with salt and turn 
upside down to drain. Equal parts of chopped meat and boiled rice makes a 
good filling. The seasoning must suit the filling. Onion juice and chopped 
parsley and a few drops of catsup are generally liked; moisten with melted 
butter, fill the shells with the selected mixture and bake until tender, but do not 
allow them to lose their shape. 



HINTS FOR LAUNDRY 

A teaspoonful of turpentine put in boiler when boiling white clothes will 
keep them snow white and remove the dingy look about neck-bands, wrist- 
bands, etc. 

Add a little pulverized borax to starch while cooking; it will give a gloss 
and prevent it from sticking to irons. 

When washing white flannels, blue the water you rinse them in very blue 
and they will not become yellow. Add borax to water you wash and rinse them 
in, using rather warm water for both, and your flannels will always be white 
and soft. 

In washing knit or crocheted articles, squeeze instead of wringing, and dry 
by laying on a clean towel, turning often, and they will be as nice as when new, 
and will retain their shape. Do not hang on Une. 



TO CAN RHUBARB 

Cut tender rhubarb stems into half-inch lengths without peeling. Pack 
in cans. Pour in cold water till can overflows and bubbles cease to rise. Seal 
tight and treat as any canned fruit. Fine for pies in the winter. 



POTATO AS A PEN WIPER 

Keep a raw potato on your writing desk, and when the pen needs cleansing, 
stick it several times in succession into the potato; you will find that it works like 
a charm. 



186 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO KEEP SALT PORK SWEET 

Put in your pork barrel a bunch of smartweed, or old man's pepper, found 
very commonly around barnyards and farm buildings. Cut off the roots and tie 
up in a bunch. This is an unfailing remedy. Have used it several years. Get 
the kind with green leaves. The variety with a black stripe in the leaf is of no 
use. 



TO DRIVE AWAY LARGE BLACK ANTS 

Get five cents' worth of tartar emetic. Mix up half the quantity with sugar 
and water to a thin syrup. Put it in a Uttle dish wherever they are troublesome. 
It will not only drive them away for that season, but they will not come back. 
We have tried it and the second season has brought no ants. 



TO KEEP ICE 

To keep ice a long time, take six or eight newspapers, place them in the ice- 
box, have the ice put on top, then wrap ice much as one would a shoe-box or 
package; then if the ice-box is not full, stuff well with crumpled paper arovmd 
edges. The ice will last twice as long and do the same work. 



FOR TRAVELING 

The berths in a Pullman sleeper are often unbearably hot and stuffy in warm 
weather, and one tosses about, unable to sleep. To overcome the heat, a hot 
water bag filled with cold water (from drinking tanks in car) and placed under 
the back of the neck at base of skull, or used as a pillow, will give great relief. 
One almost feels as if one were even breathing cooler air, and soon gets restful sleep. 

The same use may be made of the bag of cold water at home, and 
one can often go to sleep in overheated rooms by taking a quick cool bath 
and without wiping (except face and head) get in between sheets with the cold 
bag under the head. 

A little linen slip on the bag makes it more suitable for invalids confined to 
the bed and for restless, fretting babies. 



TO MAKE STOCKINGS LAST LONGER 

Stockings will last three times as long if the heels and toes are lined before 
being worn. Cut strong muslin on the bias, just enough larger to allow for a very 
narrow lapped seam across the toe. See that it fits perfectly; then cross-stitch 
to the stocking with thread of the same color Leave the thread a trifle loose 
to allow for a little stretching. 

Treat heels in a similar manner, making the muslin the size of the heel at 
the bottom of the foot, and taper to a point about four inches high in the back. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 187 

IRON EMBROIDERY ON A TURKISH TOWEL 

Iron all embroidery and laces used as trimming on a Turkish towel, placing 
the goods face downward ; the work will then stand out beautifully. It is a very 
easy matter, also, to iron gentlemen's fancy vests in this way. The seams sink 
into the towel and no glossy streak is left, as is otherwise the case. 



WASHING WINDOWS 

Wash windows with warm water in which you have first placed a small 
amount of ammonia, and use a chamois in place of a cloth or sponge; they will 
not require wiping or poUshing if washed in this way. 



A GOOD, HANDY PASTE 

A cold boiled potato, cut in two and rubbed on back of scraps for scrapbook, 
will make them stick well, and it is always ready. 



ABOUT LEMONS 

Lemons may be kept fresh a long time by placing under an earthen-ware 
crock. 

A few drops of lemon juice put into boiling rice will keep the kernels distinct 
and make them very white. 

The juice of half a lemon in a glass of unsweetened water taken before 
breakfast, will ward off a bilious spell. 

Wash the hands and finger tips in lemon to remove all sorts of stains. 

A gargle of water and lemon juice will cure a sore throat. 

A sHce of lemon dipped in salt will scour brass utensils. Rinse well. 

Castor oil taken in lemon juice is palatable. 

A few drops in fruit juice that will not jell will bring about the desired 
result. 

A lemon in a dish of apples or other fruit will impart a delightful bouquet 
to the fruit. 

After a shampoo rinse the hair in water that has some lemon juice in it. 
It will cut any grease that remains and render the scalp extra white. 



TO REMOVE A CORK FROM BOTTLE 

Take a stiff piece of string, double, and insert the loop into bottle, which 
should be held on its side so the cork will he on its side. Place the loop over the 
cork and draw toward the neck, and by slight manipulation the cork can be 
drawn out. 



188 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

BETTER THAN MOTH BALLS 

To keep moths from furs and woolen garments: take of patchouli leaves, 
ground fine, one-haK pound; lavender flowers, pounded, four ounces; ground 
cedar-wood, four ounces, and essence of patchouh, one dram. Mix and sift, and 
sprinkle among the clothing to be cared for, then wrap securely in newspapers, 
pasting the open ends together. A delicate and delightful odor clings about the 
garments thus cared for, instead of the odious aroma of the usual moth balls. 



A CURE FOR BED-WETTING 

A sure and harmless cure for bed-wetting is the weed known as white daisy 
and also known as bull's eye. It has a yellow center with white petals. You will 
find it in almost any backyard. It also has a smell similar to tansy. Pull 
weed — root and all — wash and put to steep in milk. This may be taken freely 
in cupful doses two or three times a day, and if kept up for several days will effect 
a cure. 



TO KEEP A STEEL RANGE LOOKING NEW 

To clean a steel range, first wash thoroughly with soap and water and then 
polish with a woolen rag wet with kerosene. Never blacken the steel part. If 
treated in the above way, the range will always look new. 



THE REAL WAY TO BOIL POTATOES 

After you pare them, place in cold water for half an hour, and then plunge 
them into salted boiling water (never put them in warm or cold water to cook, 
as they will be water-soaked). Last but not least, drain them in a colander so the 
cold air may strike them while hot, which has the effect of drying and making 
them very mealy. 

HOW TO WASH A WRINGER 

The rubber of a wringer which has become dirty may be easily cleaned with 
a clean cloth wet with kerosene. It will make it as clean as when new. 



HOW TO TELL WHEN LARD IS HOT ENOUGH 

To know when lard is just right for frying cakes, pass a match through 
the grease, and if it lights it, it is just right; if it does not, let it heat a httle 
longer, and try again, but with a new match. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 189 

CLEANING ENAMELED BATH-TUBS 

Never use sapolio or any kind of scouring soap to clean an enameled bath- 
tub. It will take off the enamel if the use is continued long. Use kerosene on 
a cloth or ammonia. 



TO CLEAN SOILED PHOTOGRAPHS 

A photograph which has become soiled by dust, or smoke, can easily be 
cleaned. Hold it underneath the cold water faucet, and gently wash it with the 
hand or soft brush, as the water flows over it. Thoroughly rinse in clear cold 
water, and the picture will look almost or quite as good as new. 



SOAP THE NAIL 

To keep nails from splitting f urnitvire or deUcate wood-work push them into 
a bar of soap before driving into the wood. 



SUGAR ECONOMIES 

About one-tenth of all the sugar used to sweeten tea and coffee goes into the 
dishwater. Try using pure home-made sugar syrups for table use. 

Plain Syrup: Fill a large bottle or jar with granulated sugar and pour in 
all the pure water it will take. Let stand over night and fill up again with water. 
Serve at table in syrup pitcher or glass jug, with stopper. Coffee, tea and cocoa 
are much improved by using syrup. 

Maple Syrup: Procure pure maple sugar, dissolve with hot water, and add 
double the quantity of plain syrup. You will have a better article than you 
can get at the stores. 

Fruit Syrup: To each six pounds of sugar and half gallon of water, use 
one-half ounce of citric acid and extract of Jamaica ginger to taste. If too 
sour add more plain syrup. A fine summer drink with cold soda water or ice 
water. 

Lemon: To the above proportions of plain syrup and citric acid, add 
essence of lemon to taste. 

Sherbet: To the lemon syrup mixture, add an extra amount of plain syrup 
and the expressed juice of either pineapple, raspberries, oranges, or grapes. 

Capillaire: Make the syrup with orange-flower water, instead of plain 
water, and use very little citric acid. 

Cough Syrup: Mix eight ounces of Stockholm tar with two quarts of soft 
water and let them stand for a week. Pour off and strain the tar water. Add 
all the sugar it will dissolve, with citric acid or lemon juice to taste. 

Almond Syrup: Blanch half a pound of sweet and seven or eight bitter 
almonds, and pound to meal in a mortar, add water or rose water and rub with 
the pestle until the strength of the almonds is extracted. Strain the milky 
fluid and add sugar until a saturated syrup is formed. 



190 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO REMOVE STAINS 

Cream of tartar will remove stains if a little is tied up in the stained part, 
put in cold water and slowly brought to a boil; afterward rinse in clear cold water. 

SMOKED SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Split or pound good Norwegian smoked sardines to a paste and lay wet or 
crisp lettuce leaves, slices of tomato and mayonnaise dressing between three slices 
of buttered bread or toast. Serve with hot coffee and sUces of lemon. 



SUPERIOR GRATE POLISH 

Get from the drug store twenty-five cents' worth of black liquid asphalt, 
thin enough for immediate use with turpentine, and after thoroughly washing and 
cleaning grates, apply with a paint brush. It gives a shiny, jet black poUsh, 
much superior in every way to the old methods, and saves both time and money. 



TO REMOVE STUMPS BY BLASTING 

Where the trees are many and large, blasting the stumps is the cheapest 
way to remove them. It is best done in warm weather, when rendrock, and other 
explosives are not likely to get chilled and need thawing. Use a two-inch 
auger, and bore in downward from the top or side to the center and bottom of 
the stump. Be careful about crimping your detonating tube to the end of the 
fuse, insert the detonator in the cartridge and press the explosive and cartridge 
paper gently around the fuse and let the cartridge down into the hole. Fill up 
the hole with dry sand, and if anything near is likely to be injured pile boards, 
branches, old boards, etc., on that side of the stump. Light the fuse and get 
beliind a tree or rock if nearer than two hundred yards. In hard ground the 
stump will fly into kindling wood, in soft ground it will be thrown out and spUt 
into root-sections which may need a horse to extract them. 



ENGLISH GAME OR MEAT PIE 

Take a deep pie-dish, and line the sides only with crust or pastry dough, 
putting an old cup bottom up, to support the upper crust. Cut your beef, 
mutton, veal, pork, poultry or game in small pieces, and strew a layer on the 
bottom, seasoning with salt, pepper and herbs to taste. Dredge lightly with flour, 
and add another and another layer in Uke manner until full. Fill nearly with cold 
water and put in a hot oven until the crust is nicely done, then set on the top 
of the range and simmer gently for an hour or so. When done the meat will be 
tender and surrounded by savory gravy; and if eaten cold will be a mass of 
titbits and jelly. Potatoes and vegetables should never be put in a meat pie. 
Veal pies should have slices of ham or bacon. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 191 

TO MAKE FINNAN HADDIES 

" Findhorn haddocks " were originally smoked at their peat fires by the fish- 
ermen of an obscure Scottish village, but have become famous the world over. 
The haddock seems to be the only fish largely cured in this way, but small cod, 
pollock, mackerel, eels, shad, trout, bass, pike, etc., can undoubtedly be used 
to make a like breakfast dainty. Split your fish neatly, wash it in brine, and 
lightly salt it with fine salt over night. Wash off any excess of salt, dry thor- 
oughly, dredge the flesh side with powdered sugar, and smoke for one night 
over smouldering fires of corncobs, or hardwood sawdust. If you make a quantity 
for the market, keep in pickle several days and smoke more heavily. 



CARE OF THE HAIR 

Everyone can have beautiful hair. "Regardless of color? " someone may ask. 

Yes, regardless of everything except care and cleanliness. 

Instead of washing the hair (which takes off the natural oil and causes it 
to "fly just everywhere" for several days, until the oil exudes and is brushed 
over the hair) spread a clean, white cloth, that will not Unt, over the slightly 
parted fingers of the left hand and with the right one rub your brush thoroughly 
but gently on the cloth. Brush the hair a few minutes and again clean the brush 
by rubbing on the cloth. Hair treated in this way ten minutes every evening 
for two or three weeks will be clean, soft and silky. 

Should the scalp be dirty, part the hair in several places and brush well 
each side of the part. This will not only cleanse the scalp but cause the blood 
to circulate freely, thus stimulating the growth of the hair and prevent its falling off. 

Perseverance is the price of satisfactory results. 



northa:mpton oyster toast 

Mix biscuit dough, using baking powder, or self-raising flour. Stir in the 
oysters, cut out portions holding one oyster, with a spoon dipped in water, and 
fry brown in hot lard or cottolene as one does doughnuts. 

To the oyster liquor add milk, season with pepper and salt ,and thicken 
with flour or cornstarch. When nearly done stir in a good lump of sweet butter. 
Serve the oysters hot, adding the sauce as served. 



CAPE COD FISH CHOWDER 

Fry small slices of fat salt pork brown, put in your fish in rather small pieces, 
coyer vyith warm water and boil, add peeled potatoes, and one or two small 
onions if liked. When the fish and potatoes are done, add milk to fancy and boil 
a few moments, salting to taste. Many thicken a little with flour or cornstarch, 
beaten to a smooth paste with cold water or milk, and some add butter. Season 
to taste. 



192 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



CAPE COD SEA PIE 

Take any kind of game birds, clean and cut into moderately sized pieces, 
and put in an iron pot in which a few slices of fat salt pork have been browned. 
Cover with hot water and allow to boil moderately, seasoning with salt, pepper and 
summer savory. When nearly tender put in a layer of onions if liked, then a 
layer of peeled potatoes which have been soaked in cold water an hour or so ; and 
when the potatoes are nearly done, cover with very light raised biscuit dough, 
and let simmer until the dumphngs are dry and light. Take up dumplings, 
potatoes, onions and game in separate dishes, and thicken the gravy to taste. 
Beef, veal, mutton, or venison can be cooked in the same way. 



USES FOR OLD HOSIERY 

One often hates to throw away old stockings when the legs are perfectly good 
and the feet past darning, and there are few now who take the time to make over 
stockings for children. They are, consequently, apt to accumulate and be in 
the way, yet it is surprising in how many ways they can be used. After cutting 
off the feet they make good padding for iron and pot holders, and they may also 
be used as sleeve protectors. On a chilly morning when it is sure to turn warm 
a Httle later, it is a good idea to have a pair of the stocking-legs handy to slip over 
the arms, under the dress sleeves and pin to shoulders of dress with small safety- 
pins, and when desired they can easily be drawn off. The balbriggan hose make 
excellent httle dusters and" polishing cloths, almost equal to chamois-skin. Cut 
off feet and cut the legs lengthwise. They are particularly nice for small articles 
such as are used on the dresser, and it will be found very convenient to have one 
or two in the top dresser drawer. 



NEW WAY TO PICK FRUIT 

Attach a fruit can to a long light pole by means of a nail which is driven 
through the side of the can near the top and into the pole, bending the point of 
the nail over to keep in place. Such a pole will be found very convenient when 
one wishes to pick a few of the choicest pears, peaches or apples which are sure 
to grow on the outer limbs of the tree, too high to reach without a ladder. Hold 
up the pole and let the edge of the can touch the stem or twig, and the fruit will 
fall in. 



HANDY-BAG FOR SEWING MACHINE 

Make a bag five by eight inches of cretonne, or any material you wish. In 
the top casing put a small embroidery hoop. Hang the bag by cords or ribbon 
from the corner of your sewing machine. The open top affords easy access for 
all scraps and bits of thread, and when the day's work is finished the floor is free 
from the litter so common in sewing-rooms. The little receptacle is easily 
emptied and ready for the next busy day. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 193 

TO REMOVE COAL SOOT 

Coal soot can be effectually removed from woolen clothing by rubbing with 
a crumpled newspaper. 



PRESSING RIBBONS 

To quickly press ribbons, laces, or other small articles when you have no 
fire to heat the iron, light a coal-oil lamp, which is usually to be found in the 
kitchen, at least, and wind the ribbon or lace about the chimney; the heat will 
soon take out all wrinkles. 



APPETIZING HASH 

Try putting a spoonful of sugar in the next hash you make, and see if you 
are not pleased with the result. 



DEVICE FOR HANGING SKIRTS 

To insure your wool or tub skirts keeping their shape and minus wrinkles, 
fold in center of the band, fold again back to front, then in the middle of this last 
fold insert vertically a large safety-pin through the edges of the band; hang the 
other end of the safety-pin on the hook in your closet. It is better than a skirt- 
hanger. Two or more skirts may hang from the same hook and they will always 
be straight and free from wrinkles. 



FISHING THROUGH THE ICE 

Many of our readers spear fish in winter, through holes cut in the ice. 
Their success will be much greater if they can see clearly the bottom of the 
river, and the fish as they come and go. The hole in thick ice should not be 
over-large at the top, but an ice-chisel should be used both to cut holes and en- 
large them by chopping off the under part of the ice about the hole. A sheet 
of bright tin secured by a small Hne and laid on the bottom beneath the ice hole 
will show clearly every fish that passes over it. But it pays to build a small 
lodge of poles, covered with a blanket or rug, and large enough to shelter the 
head and shoulders of the fisherman, the spear being held in the right hand 
without the cover. 

It is very exciting to see the fish of various kinds gliding out of the gloom 
into the light, and seen as plainly as if in a glass case. For my own part I have 
always preferred to use the gig, a small steel rod ten feet long, with one end 
sharpened, and turned into a keen steel hook about an inch across its curvature. 
This is brought across and under the body of the fish with a sharp deft stroke, 
and a fish rarely escapes it. It does not bruise and mangle like the average fish 
spear, but makes a single small puncture, and in the country will fui'nish many 
a welcome dinner, when fish are at all plentiful. 



194 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO CLEAN VELVET AND PLUSH 
Velvet and plushes if brushed with dry salt will look like new. 



GROWING FUCHSIAS 

The secret of successful fuchsia-growing is water, first, last and all the time. 
In pleasant weather they should be sprinkled at least once a day; twice a day is 
better, and three times will make a big difference in the number of blossoms. 

AJf ter the fuchsias get to blooming do not be afraid to cut the blossoms freely, 
whole sprays of them, as the plant will grow better and flower more freely for the 
pruning. 



WILD FLOWERS FOR THE BORDER 

The flower garden border for perennials is a great economy of time and 
strength, as it can rest undisturbed from year to year if well mulched, and not 
all amateur gardeners know how many of our wild flowers flourish luxuriantly 
there if properly treated. 

I would like to speak of a few which I have found wonderfully receptive to 
changed conditions. All the violets are very responsive to care. The Canadian 
white violet, as well as the downy yellow one, form beautiful clumps of foliage 
and blossoms, the wood violet spreads beyond all bounds, while the prairie violet 
develops larger blossoms and leaves and, for me, has blossomed again in the 
fall, extending its season to late October. 

I have a " swamp " corner, occupying the space between two large lilac and 
honeysuckle bushes. The ground is drained by the roots of the soft maple trees 
and the wiseacres prophesied failure when I made the beginning. But, by a 
judicious use of leaves and wood ashes it has become a pronounced success. Here, 
in their season, bloom bloodroot, hepaticas, anemones, spring beauties, wild 
ginger, dog-tooth violets, mandrakes and their brotherhood, among a host 
of thrifty ferns. The plants were taken from the swamps with plenty of their 
native soil, and their subsequent growth has been wonderful. 

To succeed with wild flowers one has only to reproduce, so far as possible, 
their native conditions. The American pasque-flower, the prairie's first spring 
blossom, must have pebbles or bits of rock to which to attach its roots. The 
purple avens, whose handsome foliage and crimson bells are among the finest 
of our spring decorations, requires the same conditions. All the trilliums im- 
prove under cultivation, and with mulching are permanent. Shooting-stars and 
the wild blood-lilies of the Indians reward one for the time expended in seeking 
them. By judicious selection the wild-flower border will be filled with color and 
perfume from the middle of March till the last of October when the gentians 
and asters make their adieus. 

Burbank tells us all to be plant-breeders. Without going to that length 
we can make valuable discoveries as well as find rich entertainment by giving 
our native plants a foothold among our exotics. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 195 

TO FRY TROUT AND BACON 

Get a lot of stones, flat on one surface; heat and brush them clean; put a 
thin slice of bacon and a small trout on each stone, turning the fish until done. 



SCHOOL GARDENS 

We talk about arranging flowers and often forget the many who have none 
to arrange and would not know the most common sorts by name if they saw 
them; but, fortunately, the sad lack of knowledge and enjoyment along this line 
is being brought to the pubhc, and a widespread interest is the result. To be- 
come interested in such a subject is equivalent to trying to better conditions, 
and among the many plans being put in operation that of the "School Garden" 
is destined to be the farthest reaching in its results, and destined to achieve those 
results quickly because of the fact that when a child is interested he will see to it 
that everyone interested in him shares in that interest. 

This work has grown, in a very few years, from the school garden where a 
love for beautiful surroundings was taught through the work, to thousands of 
home gardens where both flowers and vegetables are grown from seeds sold to 
the school children at a penny per packet. 

In order to have the children do their home work with an intelligence which 
will insure the success necessary to a continued interest, they are taught the work 
in gardens belonging to the school, where the enthusiasm of numbers working 
together adds to the interest. 

As a means of promoting interest in the school garden idea, as furnishing a 
text-book for use in the work, Mr. H. D. Hemenway (director of the School of 
Horticulture, in Hartford, Connecticut) has published a little book entitled 
"Hints and Helps for the Young Gardeners," in which he shows every step of 
the way, making plain even such little things as the right and the wrong ways 
of spading soil and the many other Httle things which the beginner needs to know, 
whether his years number seven or seventy. 

In a perfectly simple way Mr. Hemenway makes plain the "how-to-do" 
side of growing flowers or vegetables in the house or in the open ground; in a 
large garden or in a soap box ; in winter or in summer ; in shady or in sunny places, 
and in many instances illustrates the idea by pictures of school children doing the 
work described. These pictured lessons are so plain that any child gets the idea 
at the first glance. 

This book not only shows working methods so plainly that any teacher may, 
by its help, start such work among his pupils, but by showing how garden work 
tends toward the physical development of the children ; how the turning of back 
yards (often filthy ones) into little gardens helps the sanitary conditions, as well 
as the looks, of an entire neighborhood, and the many other ways in which the 
work reaches out and betters the conditions of life where they most need better- 
ing, he makes every reader want to help start the work or give it aid where al- 
ready started. 

The price of this httle book is so small ($20 per hundred) that any board 
of control can put it into the hands of every pupil, and at the same time inaugu- 
rate a system of gardening which will do more good than can be estimated. 



196 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

GARDEN HINTS FOR MARCH 

Every person who intends to have a garden, large or small, for flowers or for 
vegetables, should decide during March what it shall contain, and my hints for 
the month are intended for the thousands of readers who Uve in cities and have 
but a tiny back yard, or perhaps not a foot of land, and think they cannot 
grow a few flowers; while they would laugh outright at the idea of attempting 
a vegetable garden. 

The only requirements of a garden are good soil, moisture, sunshine and 
a little labor, and the one who has a fence, a wall, a door-step, a window-sill, or 
a bit of accessible roof where boxes may be placed, may order a load of good 
soil from some farmer and have a good vegetable garden in boxes. 

Where the fence is of the close kind frequently seen between back yards in 
a city, put brackets near the top and place the boxes on them, to bring the garden 
up where it gets better light. 

Radishes may be grown in such a garden and by putting in a few seeds 
when radishes are pulled for use an almost continuous crop can be maintained, 
or by sowing seeds of both early and late varieties at the same time the same 
result may be obtained. 

Dwarf peas, string beans of the dwarf variety, onions and other small stuflf, 
including parsley and the kitchen herbs so invaluable to the cook, may be grown 
as easily as the radishes, while deeper boxes, or barrels, make "beds" in which 
tomatoes and cucumbers of the finest quality may be grown. 

The cucumbers which ordinarily creep over the soil will trail over the sides 
of a barrel and make it decidedly ornamental, while the Japanese climbing 
variety grows as its name indicates. Tomatoes, too, may be had in climbing 
varieties for growing where they can be trained against a fence or trellis. 

If the light is right, but the soil is poor, along a fence, dig it out deeply and 
replace with good, then plant seeds of such things as are wanted. Either pumpkin 
or squash vines will, with very little training, clamber all over a fence, and their 
luxuriant foliage and large yellow blossoms make a fine showing. Later, the 
fruits growing from day to day and changing from green to gold challenge the 
admiration of all, and at last furnish delicacies for the table. 

This is not merely a pretty theory, but a perfectly demonstrated fact and what 
was done in my neighbor's garden last year may be done as easily in yours this year. 

Some of the climbing vegetable beans are as ornamental as the ones grown 
solely for their beauty and, like the things already named, serve a dcuble purpose 
by furnishing enjoyment for both eye and palate. 

It must be remembered that plants grown in boxes require watering oftener 
than those in the ground, but if never allowed to dry out they require less care in 
other ways. Usually they are planted more closely and cover the ground more 
completely so that weeds have less chance, and the ground, being shaded by the 
plants, needs less cultivation. 

If flowers are preferred to vegetables the same kind of garden is adapted to 
their culture, but never give up and feel that it is impossible to have a garden of 
some kind, while it is possible to put an earth-filled box or barrel in any nook or 
corner, high or low, where it can be tended and enjoyed. 

Plant what you will, but for your own sake and that of others plant something, 
even though you live in a flat and have only a window-sill at your command. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 197 

SOMETHING ABOUT FERNS 

There is practically no limit to the number of desirable varieties to be found 
in the fern family, and absolutely no limit to the pleasure to be derived from 
experimenting with them, as the more one studies them the more interest they 
arouse. 

Among commercial stock the Boston fern has become so well known that 
comment is not needed, but with that, as with other plants, constant experi- 
menting is producing new forms until now we have several distinct ones, ranging 
from the "Ostrich Plume" with its crinkly, plume-like fronds, measuring three 
or four feet in length, or the "Stag Horn," with its wide fronds flattened and cut 
into so many prongs that one glance at it suggests its name, to the " Pigmy " with 
its long and graceful fronds, not more than an inch in width. 

Among newer ferns the "Holly" is desirable because the leaves are thick 
and smooth, and shaped more like holly than like an ordinary fern, a fact which 
makes it capable of enduring more dust and dryness, as well as making it much 
easier to wash and keep clean. Before the leaves get too large for use, it makes 
an ideal plant for table decoration, but as it grows larger it becomes rather coarse, 
though never ungraceful. 

The "Climbing Fern" is another of the uncommon sorts which I have 
found very satisfactory in every way. It is a light, graceful fern that will climb 
a thread as readily as smilax, or may be trained in any form by a little care. 
This year I have let it grow wild — trailing over the pot in long, swaying branches, 
and it is even more beautiful than when trained to grow upward. 

The plant seems slow of growth at first, but when it gets started it makes 
a steady growth, and is in every way well adapted to ordinary window culture 
in any room of moderate temperature. All these commercial varieties are 
desirable, yet anyone who can make a trip to the woods, in almost any locality 
in the United States, can find native varieties that will make, under cultivation, 
specimens very little, if any, less beautiful. 

As each locaUty has its special kinds, it is not necessary to name varieties, but 
those may be found of small habit of growth which never grow too large for table 
decoration; large specimens that will make a tropical showing grown singly for 
use in parlor, hall or veranda; mediiun-sized ones there are which make effective 
showing when grown in masses in a corner; in banks on a shelf; in hanging 
baskets, or wound into balls — in fact there are ferns suited to every nook and 
corner of the house, or grounds. 

While ferns are beautiful at any time they are doubly so in summer, for the 
reason that they, more than any other plant, suggest coolness, and if we are to 
enjoy them during the coming summer we should get to the woods as early as 
possible and dig them up as soon as the coiled fronds peeping through the soil 
show us where to find them. 

Take them up with plenty of soil adhering to the roots, a supply of soil in 
which to grow them, and pieces of moss and roots of low-growing things with 
which to cover the soil after the ferns are potted and in a very short time the 
results will be ample reward for any trouble taken. 

Conditions surrounding them should be as nearly as you can make them 
like those from which they were taken, and in securing these the question of 
moisture for the foliage is one of the hardest to meet. 



198 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

Whenever there is a supply of hot water not needed for other purposes I set 
it among the ferns and let them get the benefit of the steam. At other times 
I set them out when there is a gentle rain, without wind. Sometimes they are 
set out where they can get the benefits of a heavy dew during the evening, but 
my stand-by is a large perfumery atomizer. 

By using the atomizer the fine spray can be made to reach the under side 
of the foliage, as well as the upper, and the work can be done without muss of 
any kind. 

Partial shade, moisture for the soil without making it too wet, and moisture 
in abundance for the foliage, plenty of air and freedom from insects are condi- 
tions requisite to insure success in growing ferns of any variety, after they are 
once established in their new homes. 



TO CLEANSE DATES 

The dates come tightly pressed together. First separate them and then place 
them in a colander and poiu- boiling water over them. This positively does 
not harm the dates, but removes germs and dirt. 



GROWING STRAWBERRIES IN A BARREL 

If you have a limited space for gardening, and wish to grow strawberries, 
you can grow them in the following manner: Take a barrel, fill with good, rich 
soil after boring holes all around the barrel with a two-inch auger, having the 
holes about eiglat inches apart each way. Set a plant in each hole and you can 
either grow strawberries at the top of the barrel or you can have a few flowers. 
The berries will be perfect and clean if you keep them well watered. 



TO GROW FINE CAULIFLOWER 

Use wood ashes plentifully on old garden soil and you will have no trouble 
about your cauliflower heading, providing you purchase good seed. It is equally 
good for cabbage. 

TO TAKE RAW EGGS 

Invalids sometimes find it very hard to swallow the raw eggs prescribed by 
physicians. If the following hints are observed it can be done with perfect ease. 
Put a few drops of vinegar in a cup, break the egg into the cup, being careful not 
to break the yolk, salt and pepper to taste, put a few drops of vinegar on top of 
the egg, throw back the head and take the egg in the mouth and it will shp 
down the throat almost without any effort with no taste at all except a very 
slight taste of the vinegar. This has been very successfully tried by an invalid 
who found it impossible to take this most nourishing food until this plan was tried. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 199 

TO REMOVE STUMPS BY BURNING 

Bore a large auger-hole down into the center of the stump, fill partially 
with saltpeter, pour in water until full, and plug up the hole tightly. When 
the hole is dry and empty, start a little fire over it, and the stump will smoulder 
until it is thoroughly burned out. 

FOR OUTING PARTIES 

In setting your tent-stakes, always slant them toward the tent rather than 
away from it, as much as thirty degrees. They will hold much better, both from 
wind and rain. This can be demonstrated by driving one and pulling on it from 
the side to which it points, and vice versa. 



HINTS ON CARE OF DISHES 

In wiping china dishes, do not pile one upon another while hot, but spread 
out to cool, then pack. Piling together while warm is apt to make the glaze 
crack. 

To make glass dishes less fragile, it is a good plan to place them in cold 
salted water. Let the water gradually reach the boiling point, and then keep 
it boiling for a few minutes. Take the pan off the fire and set it aside, leaving 
the dishes in it until quite cool. 

To brighten the inside of a tea-pot, fill with water, add a small piece of soap 
and let it boil for about half an hour. Thoroughly rinse afterward, that no taste 
of soap may remain. 

Setting dishes in the oven to warm often results in cracking them. Warm 
them by pouring hot water over them and there will be less chance of breakage. 

Dishes which have become brown and burnt from baking in the oven may 
be easily cleaned after they have stood a while in borax water. 

Clean brass pans with vinegar and salt before polishing. This will remove 
any peisonous corrosion and make them fit for use in cooking. 



WASHING FLUID 

One-fourth ounce salts tartar, one-fourth carbonate ammonia, one can 
Gillet's lye. Dissolve in half gallon soft water. Use one cupful to boiler of 
water. 

Put about one pail of water in boiler, add about one-fourth pQund of soap, 
shaved fine, fill up boiler with water enough to boil clothes, add fluid, stir well, 
put in clothes dry. After they have come to a boil, do not leave on ^re longer 
than twenty minutes. It is very important that no clothes should be put in after 
the water is hot, as that will "set the dirt." If you have more than one boiler 
of clothes, take out two or three pails of the hot water, add more soap and fluid 
and fresh cold water. We find it a great advantage not having to soak clothes 
over night, and so being able to choose one's weather for washing day. 



200 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO MANAGE A CLAMBAKE 

In a small excavation, lay a bed of clean stones, having as even a surface 
as possible. (If the bed is to be used a number of times, it will pay to lay the 
stones in cement and level the surface.) When stone cannot be easily obtained, 
brick may be used. A large fire of hard wood is the best, and should be kept up 
until the stones are nearly red hot, and the wood reduced to ashes. Then sweep 
the bed clean, and pile the clams upon it, say about six to eight inches thick. On 
these lay chickens, lobsters, game or fish, and over them potatoes, sweet corn, 
etc. Cover the whole with a clean cheesecloth cover, and over this a thick 
layer of clean wet sea weed, eelgrass, or freshly cut wet grass, or hay. A heavy 
canvas or cotton cover over this will help to keep in the heat. When the 
clams are thoroughly done, which can be learned by taking one or two from 
imder the cheesecloth cover, remove the sea weed, and (carefully) the cheese- 
cloth cover. All will be beautifully done. 



BOILING WITHOUT A POT 

Excavate a rather deep depression in soUd ground, and line it an inch or two 
deep with clay worked over and over until of the consistence of putty. Build 
a fire in and over it, being careful not to break the clay hning. In the course 
of an hour the clay-lined hole will be red hot ; sweep it out clean and you can stew 
meat, fish and vegetables, or heat water without fear of loss or leakage. 



TO HEAT WATER, A LA INDIENNE 

Hollow out a small trough, or fold up birch bark to make a dish to hold 
water, and put a lot of clean stones in the fire to heat. Brush off the ashes with 
a bundle of twigs and drop one hot stone after another in the water until suffi- 
ciently heated. Coffee, broth or a stew can be made in this way also, but with 
more trouble. 



TO PLANK FISH 

Split your fish and tack it, skin side out, to a hard-wood plank or barked log, 
and set opposite a hot fire where the smoke will not strike it. If very thick it 
may be desirable to expose the other side to the fire. 



TO BAKE BEANS 

Dig a moderately deep hole in solid ground and floor it with stones. Build 
a big fire in it and when stones and side are very hot remove the ashes, put in your 
pot of beans, and cover the whole with bark and leaves. Let the beans cook 
until morning. They should contain more water than is usual when at home. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 201 

TO BAKE BISCUIT 

Put a pan on the hot earth where the ashes have been swept away, cover 
with a kettle or deep pan and pile hot — not red-hot — ashes over the upper pan. 



CAMP COOKERY 

A convenient cooking place, not the great cheerful flaming campfire, which 
is quite another thing, may be made in a turfy bank or rise of ground, by cutting 
a little trench into the rim somewhat narrower than the kettle or frying-pan, and 
about a foot deep. The inner end must be the deepest and come to a "dead 
wall." A very small fire in this trench condenses its full heat on the kettle and 
frying-pan ; most of the smoke goes off from the inner end, and it is not too hot 
to cook by comfortably. 

The big fire can be used when it has reduced a good deal of wood to hot 
ashes to do some fine cooking. 



TO BAKE FISH 

Draw but do not scale your fish, wipe dry and roll up in greased or buttered 
brown paper, if you have it, and swathe in green leaves, until covered like a 
mummy. Dig into the hot embers and bury the fish in them. Cook for twenty 
minutes. The skin will come off with the blackened covering, leaving the fish 
cooked in its own juices. If you have potatoes, bury a few with the fish. They 
will be very black outside, but beautifully white and mealy within. Small 
birds and animals can be cooked in the same way. 



TO FRY AND FRESHEN HAM 

When well done, dip your slices of ham in boiling hot water for a few mo- 
ments, to remove the salt brought to the surface by frying. Place for a moment 
longer in the hot fat and serve. 



A CALIFORNIA CLEANSER 

Get a five or ten-cent package of Indian soap bark (also known as Spanish 
bark) at the druggist's. For a light-weight skirt only slightly soiled a five-cent 
package is sufficient. Pour on one to two quarts of boiling water and allow 
to steep for a few minutes. Strain the liquor off into your tub of water (which 
should not be hot, only slightly tepid), put the garment to soak a few minutes, 
clean by squeezing with the hands until thoroughly clean, rinse in two tepid 
waters. Press dry with a hot iron, using a cheesecloth or thin muslin to prevent 
goods from becoming iron-creased or scorched. If material is very thick, partially 
dry in the air, then roll up in a damp towel until ready to press. 

By following these directions carefully, you will have a garment "as good 
as new," with its original freshness of color unimpaired. 



202 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

KEEPS YOUR SLEEVES CLEAN 

To keep your shirtwaist sleeves clean while washing dishes, sew across the 
cuffs, where they button, an inch and a half of narrow white elastic, at each end 
only. Then when the cuff is unbuttoned you can pull the sleeve up and the 
elastic holds it in place. 

A NOVEL BREAD-CUTTER 

You will find a sharpened palette-knife the best bread and cake knife you 
ever used, especially for fresh baked cake or bread. 



STALE CRACKERS MADE EATABLE 

If you have crackers too stale for the table, place them in the oven with some 
bits of cheese grated over them. Let the cheese soften and the crackers brown 
slightly. They are dainty-looking and very nice, either hot or cold, and are 
particularly good with salad. 

INSTEAD OF WALNUTS 

In making apple salad substitute peanuts. They are much cheaper, and are 
delicious. 



A NAPKIN PORTFOLIO 

Cover two pieces of cardboard with cloth or silk, fastening together with 
pieces of ribbon (straps on the back and strings on the opposite edges to tie). 
You will find this very useful in which to keep napkins and fancy table linen. 



PARAFFINE FOR CANNING 

When sealing fruit cans, instead of dipping covers into melted paraffine, take 
a small brush and paint the paraffine around the can rubber; this makes an air- 
tight joint and does not require as much paraffine. 



TO BAKE BROWN BREAD 

Pour the mixture in a well-buttered tin lard pail, or a coffee tin, and im- 
merse it in a similar one of a larger size, partly filled with hot water. Cover both 
tightly, place in a moderate oven at noon time, and they will need no attention 
till they are done, at six o'clock. Then cut with a string for the table. One can 
take two baking powder tins if small loaves are preferred. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

DAMP SPONGE FOR IRONING 

You will find a damp sponge kept upon the ironing board on ironing day 
very handy to moisten the dry spots on thin materials. 



TO PREVENT FRUIT STAINING 

Do not wet the hands with water while they are wet with the juice of the 
fruit, as it is the water which turns them black when it comes in contact with 
the acid of the fruit. Dry them with an old cloth before wetting. 



FOR PATENT LEATHER SHOES 

To keep patent leather shoes from cracking, even in the coldest weather, 
rub them with lard, and set them near the fire until the lard has soaked into the 
leather, PoUsh with a soft cloth. 



TO CLEAN TEA AND COFFEE POTS 

Put in two tablespoonf uls of baking soda and fill up with water, let it boil 
about two hours and the pot will come out clean and white as new. 



TO SELECT CHRISTMAS PRESENTS 

A convenient way to select Christmas presents is to make out a list of friends 
after Christmas, note what each especially admires, and write each one's choice 
opposite the name for use next year. This simplifies matters and will prove a 
great help to the overworked home-makers. 



TO REMOVE STOPPLES FROM GLASS BOTTLES 

Pour a few drops of sweet oil or glycerine on a stopple that sticks, and let 
stand a few days. If then it does not move, pour on more. It will not affect the 
contents of the bottle, but will work into the neck of the bottle and loosen stopple. 



ON THE IRONING TABLE 

On one side of a piece of wood about four by five inches and one inch thick, 
bore five or six small one-inch holes, and fill them with beeswax. Cover with 
unbleached cotton. On the side opposite the beeswax glue emery cloth or paper 
the size of the block. To use, rub the iron on the emery side first, then on the 
beeswax side. Use it for one ironing and you will never be without it. 



204 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO REMOVE INDELIBLE INK 
Indelible ink can be removed from muslins by application of ether. 



TO DRAW THREADS IN COTTON 

First rub with white soap along threads to be drawn, and they will pull as 
easily as in Unen. 

TO COOK RICE 

If a little butter is put in rice while cooking, it will not stick to the bottom 
of the pan. 



FOR TAN SHOES 

When tan shoes are worn off so that the color is badly impaired, dissolve a 
httle tan dye very strong, and go over them with this, then polish and they will 
look like new. Gloves may be restored in the same way. 



FRUIT BUTTERS 

When making fruit butters try pouring the stewed fruit into a baking-pan 
and baking in the oven until of a sufficient degree of stiffness. This process does 
away with the long, tedious stirring that has formerly made this task one so much 
dreaded by housekeepers. No attention is required except an occasional scraping 
down of the sides of the pan and the stirring in of sugar toward the last. De- 
licious butter may be made of the peelings of peaches of good quality. Cook 
until soft, rub through a colander, and then cook down in the usual way. 



PRESERVING EGGS 

The eggs must be strictly fresh. To one part of water glass (obtained at 
the drug store) add nine parts boiled water (cooled). Mix together, place eggs 
in a jar and pour the mixture over them. This forms a jelly about the eggs. 
When eggs are strictly fresh and are preserved according to this recipe, they can 
be used the same as freshly laid ones, and have been known to keep three years. 



FURNITURE POLISH 

Equal parts whiskey, turpentine and linseed oil. Shake well, wash old 
furniture, apply polish with a yarn rag, and rub article until it shines. It gives 
the old-time polish to natural wood and looks hke new. Dust does not stick 
to it. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 205 

RENOVATING RUSTY-BLACK GOODS 

When black clothing or stockings are turning brown and ugly, rinse in borax 
water, and it will restore their original color. (Heaping teaspoonful of borax to 
one quart of warm water.) 

CLEANSING CHALK 

Keep a box of chalk handy, to clean ribbons, belts, canvas shoes, etc. Rub 
it on the soiled parts, brush briskly, and it is usually clean; if not, repeat the 
process. Use chalk according to the color of the article. 



CHILDREN'S UNDERWEAR 

Have you ever had trouble with the children's long drawers, in getting them 
smoothly in the stockings? If so, try this method: Sew a piece of tape the re- 
quired length from one side of the leg to the other, and they will be smooth. 



CRYSTALIZED FRUIT 

Pick the finest fruit with the stalks on; dip into whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth; drain, and beat the drippings to use again. After draining, dip them 
one by one into a dish of finely powdered sugar, lay in a pan covered with a sheet 
of fine paper, and place in a cooling oven to set the icing. Keep in a cool place 
imtil ready to serve. 

ANT EXTERMINATOR 

Take common hog's lard and put it thickly on small pieces of kindling-wood, 
or those little wooden trays one gets at the grocer's; lay the wood around every- 
where the ants run, and in no time the lard will be covered with the pests, when 
they can be burnt in the stove. Repeat until you are rid of them, which will be 
in a very short time. 

CALLOUSED FEET 

For callouses on the bottom of the feet or rough heels in winter, soak the feet 
well and rub with a toilet pumicestone. It is a sure cure. 



A CAUTION 

Do not rub dry salt on the hands after cleaning and dish-washing if you have 
any cuts or places on the hand where the skin is broken. It may amount to 
even more than smart at the time. Salt is almost like poison to some. 



200 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO BAKE POTATOES QUICKLY 

Put potatoes on an asbestos mat, on top of the stove; cover with a pan; they 
bake very quickly and are extremely palatable. 



ONION JUICE FOR SEASONING 

Onion juice is better than chopped onion for seasoning. Cut the onion in 
half and press it in a lemon-squeezer. 



CREAM CHEESE 

To ten gallons of sweet milk heated lukewarm, use a No. 2 rennet tablet 
dissolved in a little warm water; thoroughly mix; let stand ten or twelve min- 
utes; then thoroughly break up the curd, drain off the whey, wash the curd 
with hot but not boiling water, and turn it in a pan, salting and coloring as if 
making butter; put to press in a common lard-press for twenty-four hours; 
take out of press, grease with butter, and tvu-n it every day. It will be ready 
to eat in from two to four weeks, according to taste. 



HINT TO CAMPERS 

For use in the country or in camp, flour sacks will be found especially service- 
able. Six will make a good tablecloth if one is "handy" with the needle. 
Rip them apart, spread flat, and sew together, taking two to make a width. 
Feather-stitching along the seams makes it very pretty. Pillow-slips may also 
be made from the sacks, and when finished with a neat hem they will be found 
very useful in furnishing the camp. 



FOR OILY HAIR AND DANDRUFF 

Pour half a gallon of water on half a pint of salt at night. Let it stand 
over night. Next morning boil it well for ten minutes, strain and let it stand 
twenty-four hours. Repeat the boiling and straining, then bottle. Apply it to 
the scalp about twice a week. Do not use too much — just enough to wet the 
scalp and not the hair. Massage the scalp well and the hair will be ready to dress 
in ten minutes. 



OKRA AND TOMATOES 

Use okra and tomatoes in equal portions. Slice the okra, which must be 
young, and skin the tomatoes : put into a pan without water; add a lump of butter, 
an onion sliced fine, some pepper and salt, and stew one hour. This is a very 
nice dish. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 207 

TO MAKE SCISSORS CUT WELL 

If the scissors do not cut well, draw the fingers gently the full length of each 
Made, and notice the result. 



TREATMENT FOR SWEATING FEET 

Procure from your local butcher some brown straw wrapping paper, and cut 
the paper so that the pattern will fit nicely in the bottom of your shoe. Paste 
two of these patterns together and insert one in each shoe. These patterns 
should be replaced with new cues about twice a week. This treatment will be 
found very effective. 



TO PREVENT SNEEZING 

Simply place the tongue between the teeth and press it hard enough, and 
you cannot sneeze, and no one will be the wiser, as they usually are when you 
press your finger imder the nose or perform other external acts to suppress a 
sneeze. 



TO PREVENT COLDS, ETC. 

To protect from headache and neuralgia of the face, rub oil or cold cream 
thoroughly into the skin of the face, especially on the forehead and temples, 
before exposure to the wind or-cold air. 



OLD RUGS RENOVATED 

Color your old and faded rugs by applying any standard dye of the colors re- 
quired with a water-color brush. You will be pleasantly surprised at the results. 



TO LOOSEN RUSTED SCREWS 

To loosen rusted screws, apply a red-hot iron to head of screw for a few 
minutes. 



GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT 

Chop fine eight quarts of green tomatoes, drain off the juice, then add as 
much water as juice, scald in that water and pour off, then in another water and 
pour off. Then add scant five pounds of sugar, two pounds seeded raisins 
chopped, one teacupful of chopped suet or butter, two tablespoonfuls of salt, 
one cup of vinegar. Cook until the tomatoes are the color of raisins. When 
cool, add two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, one 
grated nutmeg. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

FLY KILLER 

A square of ordinary wire netting, fastened by small wire brads or nails into 
the end of a round stick, is a very good fly killer. 



TO COOK GREEN CORN 

Those fond of green corn cooked on the cob will find it much more delicious 
and tender if after cleaning it is rewrapped in an inner husk, tied with a string, 
and cooked thus. 



TO REMOVE PIECES OF EGG-SHELLS 

If when breaking eggs into a bowl a piece of shell gets into the egg, by just 
touching with the half shell, it will cUng to it and be easily removed. 



SPOOL OF SILK HELP 

To keep silk on a new spool from falling off the spool when first opened, 
immerse in water. It will not hurt the most dehcate shade. 



PICTURE TUBE FOR DOILIES 

If you have doilies which you do not want to fold, and they are too large to 
be laid flat in a drawer, procure a picture shipping tube (or an old broomstick) 
and wrap the doiley right side out on this, and lay away in drawer. 



FOR UNSIGHTLY SPOTS 

A lady was lamenting the loss of a new gray tailored suit on which 
she had dropped some orange juice. The spots were unsightly and of course the 
dress seemed ruined, when her sister suggested: " Why not try painting the spots 
the same shade of your dress with your water colors? " This she did with perfect 
success. 



TO REMOVE OIL STAINS 

To entirely destroy oil of any kind on all cloth, from bleaching to satin, 
woolen goods, lace, etc., just sprinkle plentifully with toilet powder and let it 
remain a short time, then brush it off and repeat. Brush the goods thoroughly 
and you will notice the spot has entirely disappeared. This also effaces rain-drop 
impressions on gray broadcloth. Some goods take more powder, but that is 
owing to the quantity of grease that is absorbed. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 209 

CORK KNOB FOR KETTLE COVER 

If the knob comes off the kettle cover, put a screw through a cork on top; 
this will never burn the fingers and will last a long time. 



NEW USE FOR ORGAN STOOL 

One of my greatest helps in housework has been an old organ stool. It had 
seen its best days in the parlor so I covered the top with a piece of carpet. When 
I peel potatoes I sit on this stool ; when I wash dishes I make it higher and use it 
again. When not in use it takes up very little room. 



TO REMOVE SCORCHED TASTE 

To remove scorched taste from food, set it immediately in a dish of cold 
water for a few minutes and empty. 



CURLED EDGES OF RUGS 

The big rug in my dining-room curled up along the edges until I sewed with 
coarse thread some big pieces of pasteboard on the under side of it — making the 
edge of pasteboard just meet the edge of the rug. 



ANOTHER FLY DESTROYER 

If a piece of flannel is saturated in tm-pentine, kept moist and hung up in a 
room, the flies will disappear. 



TO LOOSEN A LAMPWICK 
If a lampwick sticks and will not work easily, pull out a thread at each edge. 



CUCUMBER PICKLES WITHOUT CANNING 

Three hundred small cucumbers, eight good-sized green peppers sliced, one 
large horseradish root, two quarts very small, white onions. Soak in brine that 
will bear up an egg for twenty-four hours; drain three hours. Scald two gallons 
of cider or white wine vinegar, and add one-quarter of pound each of black and 
white mustard seed, one teaspoonful of Cayenne pepper, one ounce of toomerac. 
Pour over the pickles, and when cold add a pint of ground mustard, wet with 
vinegar. Pack in large crock and cover with grape leaves. 



210 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



A HOME-MADE GUEST BOOK 

My guest book is made thus: On a cardboard cover, six inches by nine, is 
printed this verse: 

"Good-night. 
Sleep sweet within this quiet room, 

O friend, whoe'er thou art, 
And let no mournful yesterdays 

Disturb thy peaceful heart; 
Nor let tomorrow scare thy rest 

With dreams of coming ill; 
Thy Maker is thy changeless friend, 

His love surrounds thee still. 
Forget thyself with all thy woes, 

Put out each feverish hght; 
Thy God is watching overhead, 

Sleep sweet, good-night, good-night. 
Clovers and grasses, done in water colors, decorate the left-hand side of this 
cover page. To it are fastened pages of blank paper by narrow ribbon passing 
through holes punched at equal distances from the edge both of the cover and 
leaves. Tied to this ribbon, which serves also to hang the book upon the dresser, 
is a tiny pencil with silk cord and tassel. It has hung in my guest room for ten 
years, and as I turn its pages I see faces and hear voices of many dear friends 
who have gone into the Silent Land. 



COFFEE CANS FOR BAKING BREAD 

Try baking yeast bread in one-pound coffee cans. You will be delighted 
with the nice, evenly browned loaves of convenient size, and the time required 
for baking will be foimd less than for those baked in ordinary-sized bread tins. 



BOIL FRUIT JUICE WITHOUT STIRRING 

Four or five clean, common playing marbles dropped in the bottom of a 
kettle of boihng fruit juice will by their continual motion make unnecessary 
constant stirring to prevent scorching. 



TO CLEAN TINWARE 

For cleaning tinware there is nothing, better than dry flour applied with a 
newspaper. 

CREAM OF TARTAR IN FROSTING 

A little cream of tartar, the size of a pea. added to boiled frosting makes it 
creamy and keeps it moist longer. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 211 

A HINT FOR GENTLEMEN 

A very good protection to keep a gentleman's full-dress shirt from ab- 
sorbing perspiration during dancing or on warm days, is to make a shield of oiled 
silk, the exact size of the bosom of shirt, bind with narrow tape, and fasten around 
the neck and waist with tape. 



NEW USE FOR EGG-BEATER 

When making apple sauce, time and labor may be saved, if instead of strain- 
ing the sauce through a sieve, an egg-beater is used for a few seconds. All of 
the lumps will have been beaten smoothly and the sauce made palatable. 



TO REMOVE STAINS FROM GINGHAM 

Rub the stains with a little sapolio and wash as usual. All trace of stains 
will at once disappear and will not affect the colors in the gingham. 



TO KILL COCKROACHES 

Roaches are killed outright by the poisonous water exhaling from fresh 
cucumber peelings scattered about the floor at night, and two or three repetitions 
wiU exterminate them. 



EASY WAY TO WASH COMFORTERS 

When making comforters cover each end to the depth of ten or twelve 
inches with a slip made of white cheesecloth or some pretty contrasting color of 
cotton challis or silkaline. This can be removed and washed several times before 
the comfort requires washing all over. When that inevitable time arrives, 
make a tub of suds with some good white soap, wash each end to the depth of 
twelve or fifteen inches; attach firmly sidewise to a line, (large safety pins are 
preferable to clothes-pins for this) , prop up high and securely and turn the hose 
on each side until thoroughly wet through. Select a bright, sunny morning 
for this work and the result will be a clean, light comforter, with the cotton as 
soft and fluffy as when new. 



TERRA ALTA SALAD 

One cup each of tomatoes and celery, and six hard-boiled eggs. Cut (not 
chop) the ingredients, and use with either a mayonnaise or French dressing as 
preferred. This salad, as its name indicates, is the top of the world in the salad 
line. 



212 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO MAKE BLANKETS LOOK NEW 

Beat your blankets with a bamboo carpet-beater when nearly dry on the 
clothes line. It makes them light and soft. 



PICKLED ONIONS 

Use the small red onions. Peel two quarts and lay in salt water a few 
hours. Then steam them till they are tender, after which scald in three pints of 
vinegar, a few cloves and mixed spices. They will keep for any length of time. 



fire. 



TO MAKE A BRISK FIRE 
If you wish new coal to burn quickly, wet with water before putting on 



WASHING DELICATE EMBROIDERIES 



Make good lather, with pure soap and warm water, (Naptha soap is good) 
one-quarter teaspoonful of powdered borax to each quart of water. Place 
article in glass fruit jar, nearly fill jar with lather, seal tightly, shake, place jar 
in bright sunlight twenty-four hours, more if cloudy. Turn jar so sunlight 
penetrates every part. When time is up, pour off lather, press fabric gently, 
rinse several times in clear, soft water. Return to jar with clean water, set in 
6un, change water daily, until material is white. 



QUICK COOKING OF BEANS 

To cook dry beans in one hour or less: wash beans, put in kettle, with lump 
of baking soda size of pea, to one pint of dry beans. Pour boiling water over, 
parboil, pour off water, and again put in soda same as at first, using boiling 
water each time. You will be surprised at the result. No soaking over night, 
or fuel wasted in long cooking, 

ONE-CRUST APPLE PIE 

In baking an open apple pie, if the apples won't bake well, place a tin cake 
pan over pie, and in a short time the apples will burst open and be flaky. 



WHEN MAKING FRUIT CAKE 

To keep fruit from falUng to bottom of cake, stir in before adding flour. 
This does away with flouring the fruit and is very satisfactory. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 213 

IN THE LAUNDRY 

In hot weather, after sprinkhng thin white pieces, instead of packing in 
basket, wrap in newspaper, and they will iron lovely. 

Starch collars made on your shirtwaists in cold starch; they will keep their 
shape until waist is dirty. 

CANNING BAKED APPLES 

Remove core from the apple, fill with raisins and hickory-nut meats, pour 
over water and sugar and bake. Fill tin cans, cover with hot syrup. When 
ready to use, drain every particle of syrup from apples and boil down to a jelly; 
pour over apples, sprinkle with granulated sugar. 



SIMPLE WAY TO CAN RHUBARB 

Wash and cut into inch lengths, without peeling. Fill glass jars and set 
each under the cold water faucet until the jar overflows; screw on tops and put 
in dark, cool place. Pour off water when needed to make pies or sauce, and use 
as if fresh. 



OAK FURNITURE STAIN 

Linseed oil and benzine half and half, with a little burnt umber or Vandyke 
brown incorporated with the mixture, makes a fine stain. When dried hard, oil 
or varnish. 



GOOD POTATO CAKES 

Boil potatoes, then roll them after they are peeled, and add caraway seed, 
some milk or cream and a little butter, and flour enough to roll, and fry them 
like griddle cakes. Cut out with a biscuit cutter. It is a great dish in Ireland. 
They should be eaten hot. 

SOAPY WATER FOR STARCH 

Have the water used for starch a little soapy, and add a little lard; this 
gives a nice gloss and the iron will not stick. 



FROSTING FOR CAKES 

One cupful of rolled walnut meats, one-half cupful of chopped raisins, and 
one and one-half cupfuls of confectioners' sugar. Stir together and add enough 
milk to spread well on cake. 



214 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



GLASS JARS FOR FOOD 

Glass fruit jars will be found excellent receptacles for food to be placed in 
the refrigerator, thus avoiding the foul smells and bad-tasting food that usually 
result when the food is placed there uncovered. In this way one may place 
fish and cheese next to the butter and not the sUghtest taint can be detected. 

TO REMOVE A TIGHT LID 

To remove a tight lid from a baking powder or similar can, always grasp 
the can by the bottom, as holding around the sides presses it out of shape and 
makes the lid fit tighter. 

STARCH IN WINTER 

To prevent the stiffening, freezing out of starched clothes, add one-half 
tablespoonful of salt to hot starch and use at any time, drying out of doors if 
wishing to. 



BLOTTING PAPER P.ADS 

Place blotting paper (white) under dresser and side-board covers, also 
under doihes, to protect highly polished surfaces from marks, as well as to insure 
immediate absorption of water or any liquid which may accidentally be spilled 



on same. 



TO KEEP CAKE MOIST 

I generally cut a loaf of cake in the middle and take as many slices as needed, 
then bring the two cut surfaces together again, and the cake has no cut surface 
exposed to the air to dry. 

TO GET WALKING SKIRT LENGTH 

Baste the seams and put skirt on band. Try skirt on and when fitted 
perfectly around hips and hung properly, take a book two inches thick or as many 
inches thick as you want the skirt to be from the floor when finished. Place 
the book flat on the floor just under the edge of the skirt. Now begin to turn 
and pin your hem with the lower edge of the hem touching the book. When 
hem is turned have person who is being fitted turn around very slowly to be sure 
the skirt touches the book all the way around. For one who will stand straight 
whilp a hern is being put in this way the length will rarely need any alteration. 
It the skirt is a plaited one, baste the plaits in all the way down and turn plaits and 
all with the hem until you get the required length; then give plaits and hem a 
good pressing, and when plaits are loosened and drawn out, fold hem at crease 
made by iron, and sew on braid, and your skirt wit hang perfectly even, without 
any corners to hang from under the plaits. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 215 

NEW SHADES MADE OF OLD ONES 

The lower part of the shade usually wears out while the other end is yet 
good. This can be remedied so the shades will look new by carefully taking 
the tacks out where the curtain is tacked to the pole and hemming the raw 
edge; if there is fringe, it can be ripped off and sewed on as before. The old 
part of the shade may be tacked to the pole and when rolled up a little it looks 
like a new shade. 



CANNED TOMATOES 

Tomatoes keep perfectly if canned in beer bottles with hot sealing wax poured 
over the cork. When used for soups, sauces, etc., the extra cooking necessary 
to make them fine enough to run tlirough the funnel while filUng the bottles is not 
objectionable. 

LEMON FOR ENLARGED JOINTS 

For those who suffer with enlarged joints or bunions, which quite frequently 
become much inflamed and very painful if the feet are chilled, or even get very 
cold, nothing will afford such instant relief as a generous slice of lemon bound on 
at night with plenty of bandage to retain the moisture. If continued for three 
nights the soreness will be entirely cured. The peeling should be removed from 
the lemon and only the soft pulp should be used. 



DELICIOUS SAUERKRAUT 

The German way: Put one tablespoonful of lard or bacon grease in an 
earthen crock (half-gallon size) add one tablespoonful of flour, stir together. 
Put in one pint of sauerkraut, stir all together. Pour in enough water to fill 
crock. Put plate on top and bake in oven three hours. Most deUcious kraut 
you ever tasted. 

A STOCKING HELP 

To prevent stockings from being lost or mismated, sew to each one a piece of 
tape the color of the stockings, and tie each pair together before sending to wash. 
They can be washed without being untied. 



RHUBARB JELLY 

Rhubarb may be made into jelly by adding about two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon-juice to a cup of rhubarb-juice; use cup for cup of sugar and rhubarb- 
juice; the stalks should be washed, dried and bruised to start the juice, and 
then stewed to a pulp without adding water, straining through a double bag of 
cheesecloth. The jelly will be of a beautiful pink color and delightful in flavor. 



216 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



CANNING FRUIT SUCCESSFULLY 

If when canning fruit the covers are scalded, dried and set on the edge of the 
range, to keep hot while the jars are being filled with fruit, the probability of 
having broken tops will be reduced to a minimum and no second screwing on 
when the fruit in the jars has cooled will be necessary, as the metal contracts 
while cooling, so no air space can possibly be left if the rubbers are properly ad- 
justed. Incidentally, if, when a jar is to be opened, it is set in a vessel of boiling 
water two inches deep (jar bottom side upward) for a few minutes, until the 
metal top has had time to expand, the cover can be imscrewed easily without 
spoiling the rubber or prying off the rim of the cover. 



SMOKE-STAINED IVORY 

To remove smoke stains from ivory, immerse the article to be cleansed in 
benzine and go over it with a brush. 



KEEPS SHOES IN GOOD CONDITION 

Shoes may be kept up to the mark by rubbing them with a piece of black 
cloth dipped in a solution of cream and black ink, polishing with a piece of old 
flannel. 



INK STAINS ON COLORED GOODS 

To remove black ink stains on children's colored dresses, etc., cover them 
immediately with red ink and wash, when you will find not a trace of either 
ink remaining. 



SALMON LOAF SANDWICHES 

Chop fine a pound of salmon, add a cup of bread crumbs, one egg, one table- 
spoonful melted butter; season with salt and pepper; mix and pack in two one- 
pound baking powder cans which have been well greased; put on the lids, and 
boil an hour. Shake out when cold and slice for the table. 



MEAT SOUFFLE 

Meat souffle is simply a bread pudding with the raisins and sugar left out, 
and a can of potted meat and an onion put in instead; season highly with red 
and black pepper and nutmeg, place bits of butter over the top, and bake in a 
pudding dish until light brown. Serve with salad dressing and a lettuce garnish. 
The ingredients are: one pint of milk, two eggs, one onion, one can of potted 
meat, one pint of bread crumbs. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 217 

TOILET WATER 

One quart of water, one scant pint of best white vinegar. Two drams 
of each of the following: rosemary, rue, camphor, lavender, thyme and orris- 
root. Let the herbs soak in the vinegar several hours, then strain and add the 
water. 



A DELICIOUS FLAVORING 

Boil six peach kernels in a quart of milk which is used for custard; they will 
give the custard a delicious flavor. 

TAKING CASTOR OIL 

To avoid the unpleasant taste of castor oil, pour the oil into a glass of root 
beer or sarsaparilla, and it cannot be detected. 



POTTED TONGUE CROQUETTES 

Potted tongue can be used for croquettes or meat souffle, and makes a purer 
food than when eaten without being thoroughly cooked. To make croquettes: 
Stir into a pint of thick milk, gravy or drawn butter one can of potted meat, one 
raw egg, one pint of bread crumbs (or enough to make the mixture stiff), one 
chopped onion, a pinch of nutmeg; season highly, and when cold form into 
balls, roll in bread crumbs and drop into hot grease to fry a deep brown. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with salad dressing. 



BATH BAGS 

To three pounds of clean bran and one pound of orris-root pulverized, add 
one and one- half pounds of almond meal, two handfuls clover blossoms (red) 
and eight ounces of white castile soap (grated). Mix thoroughly. Make cheese- 
cloth bags, and put five ounces in each bag. Use one at a bath. These bath 
bags will keep the flesh firm and the skin nice and white. 



FACE WASH 

A face wash that is far superior to powder of any sort, does not harm the 
skin, but rather keeps it from sunburn and makes it smooth and white, is pre- 
pared as follows: Five cents' worth of each of the following — bergamot, pow- 
dered snowflake magnesia, oil of lemon, bay rum — and a pint of rain water. Shake 
thoroughly, put into bottles, and apply to face with Hnen cloth. Always shake 
well before using. 



218 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

PREVENTS CROCKING 

If you have cloth which crocks, rub it very thoroughly with fine dry salt, 
applied with a soft cloth. 

SAVE YOUR HANDS 

Wind the handle of your broom with soft cloth of some kind — outing flannel 
is good — tack securely in place, and you will find that your hands will not become 
calloused by sweeping. This is better than taking time to put on gloves. 



TO CLEAN WALLS 

Rub with old outing flannel. It removes smoke and dirt, making the paper 
look like new. 



TO MAKE PIECRUST 

Use equal parts melted lard and lukewarm water, a small lump of salt, 
pinch of soda and flour to roll. Let it get cold before using. 



STEAMING POTATOES 

To cook potatoes so they will remain whole, try steaming them, or boiling 
very slowly. It will take about fifteen minutes longer to steam than to boil 
them, but one will be pleased with the result. 



BAKING SODA FOR CORNS 

To take soreness out of corns, bind common baking soda on them at night 
vmtil the soreness is gone. 

TO GET NEW FURNITURE 

The furniture of my sitting room was donated from time to time by various 
friends, and no two pieces matched, the woodwork of the chairs being of all 
shades. I noticed at the New England Food Fair a demonstration of Jap-a-Lac, 
and bought a small tin to experiment with. I washed one of the chairs with 
strong soda water, scraped off some of the darker part ot the surface, and gave it 
two coats of Jap-a-Lac. It looked so well I got a larger tin, gave the light- 
colored chairs two or more coats and the dark ones one coat. Now my furniture 
is supposed by friends, not in the secret, to be a new lot that has replaced my odds 
and ends. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 219 

HANDY FLOOR POLISHER 

A man's old felt hat can be put to good service to take up dust from or to 
polish floors. If you have a long-handled brush much worn, cover with the old 
hat; or make a thick pad of woolen stuff on the end of an old broom handle, 
and cover this pad with the felt hat. 



A GOOD CEMENT 

Take a thick solution of gum arable and stir into it plaster of Paris until the 
mixture is of the proper consistency. Apply it with a brush to the broken edges 
of china-ware and they will adhere firmly. The whiteness of the cement renders 
it especially valuable. 

TO DRIVE AWAY CURCULIO 

For one tree soak about twelve cobs over night in turpentine, then hang 
them in the tree when in full bloom. 



CASTOR OIL FOR WARTS 

Moles and warts may be removed without your knowing it, so gradually 
but surely do they go away by the constant daily appUcation of castor oil. 



ADHESIVE PLASTER TO MEND BOOKS 

Adhesive plaster is the best thing I have found for fastening the backs on 
books which have become loosened. The gummed flaps of envelopes are splendid 
to mend the torn leaves. 



AMMONIA FOR SILVERWARE 

To clean silverware, either solid or plated, use a weak solution of twenty 
parts water to one of ammonia and soap. Rub with a brush and rinse in alcohol. 
This is for bright or polished finish. For satin or frosted finish, use the weak 
solution of ammonia and baking soda. Wet the brush, rub on the soap, then dip 
brush into dry baking soda and scrub the article thoroughly. Repeat if neces- 
sary. Do not use soda on gray silver, it will make it all the same color. 



TO MEND RUBBERS 

Rubbers may be quickly and easily mended by applying a cement of pure 
rubber dissolved in chloroform. It must be appUed quickly with small brush. 



220 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

A CLEANING HINT 

The unsightly ring left on clothes that have been cleaned with gasoline may 
be removed by steaming over a tea-kettle. 



A SUBSTITUTE CHIMNEY SWEEP 

A chimney may be kept clean and safe by throwing a piece of zinc into the 
furnace or range once a month. 

A FLY REMOVER 

Flies will soon leave if you saturate cloths with oil of sassafras and lay them 
near windows and doors. 



SUGAR FOR TEAPOT 

Put a lump of sugar in your metal teapot before putting it away. You will 
find the flavor of the tea improved when teapot is next used. 



RAW POTATO USED AS GREASER 

In frying pancakes, after the first panful has been cooked use no more grease, 
but slice a raw potato and rub the pan each time. Pancakes fried in this way are 
more easily digested. 

WILL MAKE THE THIMBLE STICK 

To prevent the thimble from slipping off the finger when sewing, wet the 
ball of the thimble finger before putting on the thimble. 



AN IMPROVEMENT SUGGESTION 

Almost all nasal troubles can be (at least temporarily) relieved by the use of 
inhalers of some kind. We would suggest the use of resin instead of cotton rags. 
Take powdered resin and sprinkle upon hve wood coals, inhaling as much of the 
fumes through the nose as possible. All of the preparations of a resinous nature 
have a healing tendency which the fumes from many of the substances commonly 
used for this purpose do not possess. I have seen much benefit in the poultry 
house from fumigation. Burn tar or resin in an iron kettle containing hve wood 
coals, after the poultry have gone to roost. Inhalation is also an old veterinary 
remedy, and can be used with good results upon horses having distemper, or 
other head troubles. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 221 

ECONOMY IN PLANTING POTATOES 

When using large potatoes for seed, slice oflf the outside for planting and save 
the inside for table use. 



FLOWERS FOR TABLE IN WINTER 

Flowers were scarce last winter and the usual floral centerpiece for the dining 
table not always obtainable, until I hit upon the following device: Several 
sprays of Wandering Jew were placed in a low vase of water. They soon sprouted 
and furnished greenery for the whole season. The addition of a bunch of geran- 
ium blossoms, begonias, fuchsias, or whatever happened to be in bloom when 
wanted, kept the vase a thing of beauty and joy forever. The south window 
furnished desirable colors. Water in the vase must be frequently changed. 



FOR THE OUT-DOOR CAVE 

An out-door cave — or under-house cellar — after a prolonged wet spell, 
often becomes moldy and generates an offensive smell. A friend of mine tells 
of how she thoroughly routed every speck or smell of mildew in her cave by 
building a fire of corn cobs on the cement floor; closing door and windows, 
subjecting the room to prolonged dense fumigation. Results were satisfactory 
and productive of great rejoicing. 



LINSEED OIL AS STOVE POLISH 

Instead of the usual sticky stove blacking for the kitchen range, paint the 
stove while moderately hot with boiled Unseed oil, rubbing it in well. 



REMEDIES FOR POISON IVY 
Apply sweet oil or bathe the affected parts in sweet spirits of nitre. 



TO CLEAN RUSSIA IRON 

To clean Russia iron, mix the blacking with kerosene and it will look nearly 
as well as new. 



VARNISH STRAW MATTINGS 

A thin coat of varnish applied to straw matting makes it more durable and 
adds to its beauty. 



222 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO IMPROVE CHICKEN GRAVY 
To make chicken gravy richer add eggs found in chicken or yolk of an egg. 



FOR CLOSET FLOORS 

Paper them with a pretty figured wallpaper, then go over it when dry with 
Jap-a-Lac, and you will have a neat and moth-proof covering. 



OATMEAL MACAROONS 

Oatmeal macaroons are very delicious. Take two and one-half cupfuls 
of Quaker oats, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half cup of sugar, two 
well-beaten eggs, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Mix thoroughly, and drop in half- 
spoonfuls on buttered tins. Bake in a moderate oven until crisp and lightly 
browned. 



TO KEEP COOKIES MOIST 

Put into your crock a few cookies, then a slice of bread, then more cookies, 
then bread, until you have them all in. The bread will become dry and the cakes 
keep moist. Replenish the bread if it gets very dry. 



A TRANSFERRED EMBROIDERED PATTERN 

If a pattern of an embroidered piece is desired, it can easily be obtained by 
placing white paper over the embroidery and working a silver spoon over the 
design. The spoon should occasionally be rubbed on the hair near the ear. 
There seems to be just enough oil to aid in producing a distinct pattern. 



HOW TO OPEN A NEW BOOK 

In opening a new book the covers should first be pressed flat to a table, 
then sections on each side until the center is reached. In this way the binding 
will last much longer. 

PICKLED CORN 

Cut off ten cups of sweet corn, add two cups of finely chopped cabbage, also 
one red pepper chopped fine, then add two cups of vinegar. One cup of water, 
one cup of sugar, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonful of 
yellow mustard (ground), one tablespoonful of celery seed. Mix all together, 
put on stove, boil thirty minutes and it is ready for your glass jars when they are 
hot. Seal tight. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 223 

TO STICK STAMPS 

One very often has a stamp from which the mucilage has been removed 
in some way, and being out of paste or mucilage and in a hurry to post a letter 
it is often very trying. A good idea is to moisten the "sticky" part of a new 
envelope, rub it on the stamp and it will stick as good as new. The envelope 
thus used can be laid aside and used sometime when one has paste to seal it 
with, or can be used with sealing-wax. 



A DAINTY BREAKFAST DISH 

Butter thick slices of bread. Separate the yolk and white of an egg, care- 
fully preserving the shape of the former and beating the latter to a stiff froth. 
Turn this beaten white over the buttered bread, then put the round yolk in the 
center. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and brown in the oven. A very dainty 
and extremely appetizing dish. 



PAPERING A ROOM 

Often when papering a room there are weak places where the plastering 
is crumbling and shaking off, and it is difficult to make it firm. First cover the 
weak places with table oilcloth, paste it smoothly and firmly in place, and cover 
with the room paper. You will find it to be strong and lasting. 



A SHORT ROAD TO PERFECT JELLY 

This method is good for all fruits but pineapple, crabapples and quinces. 
Mash the raw fruit until all is well broken, then take a cupful at a time and put 
in a bag — a salt bag is very good for the purpose — and gently squeeze the juice 
into a dish; when all the fruit is thus treated, measure the juice and place in a 
vessel and put over the fire to cook. Measure one cupful of sugar for every 
cupful of juice, putting on the stove or in the oven where it will become very 
hot, but do not let it scorch. Let the juice boil for about seven or eight minutes 
and skim, then add the hot sugar, bring to a boil and cook one minute more. 
The color and flavor of the fruit is much better preserved by this plan than by 
the more tedious process. From beginning to end it will take less than an hour 
to make the jelly. 

WET GRASS FOR SWEEPING 

Every housewife has her special favorite among the numerous sweeping 
day "aids." My partiality for keeping down the dust is fresh green grass, 
pulled while the dew is on it, if possible, if not, slightly dampened. It does the 
work better than salt or tea leaves, and leaves such a deUcious odor of "out- 
doors" on rugs and carpets. 



224 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

DRY MUSTARD PLASTER 

J'or a mustard plaster that will not blister, take a piece of flannel and rub 
into it all the dry mustard it will hold, shake, to remove the surplus, and apply 
to the part affected. 

TO SOFTEN DRIED WET SHOES 

Wet shoes dried and then rubbed with a cloth wet in kerosene oil will be 
soft as when new, and will take blacking and not dirt as shoes rubbed with 
vaseline will do. 



TO TAKE CASTOR OIL 

Heat a wine glass in water, pour in the castor oil, hold the nose and the oil 
will slip down quickly without being tasted; but, to prevent the after taste, 
before letting go of the nose, rub lips and touch the tongue with a bit of pickle, 
lemon or the like. 



PEELING OLD ONIONS 

Winter onions are always strong, and very offensive to the eyes, while 
peeling. In peeling always strip the peel from the roots up, and this trouble will 
be entirely overcome. 

TO RETAIN THE COLOR OF RED FLANNEL 

To keep the color of red flannel, stir two tablespoonfuls of flour into one quart 
of cold water, let boil several minutes, add warm suds, and wash the flannel in 
this in the usual manner. 



WASHING LINGERIE SHIRTS 

Badly soiled turnover cuffs on lingerie shirts can be more easily cleaned by 
laying flat on the washboard and scrubbing with a brush. 



TO CLEAN STEEL 
Dip a slice of raw potato in brick dust and rub till bright. 



TO REMOVE MUD FROM BOOTS 

To remove mud from boots quickly, one will find that a strip of carpet 
glued to a piece of wood is more effective than a brush. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 225 

TO CLEAN VELVET 

Spread the material on a clean board and sponge with turpentine or alcohol, 
then rub briskly with dry cloth, .\fterward steam the velvet to raise the pile, 
by drawing it over a wet cloth placed over a hot flatiron and brushing lightly. 



FADED DRAPERIES 

Owing to the tiresome work incident to dyeing draperies, etc., I had been 
compelled to discard much that, while faded, was still otherwise in good con- 
dition, until I accidentally discovered a most simple and effective method to 
restore the color. After washing cotton dresses, or draperies that were faded, I 
rinsed them in water to which had been added some dye of the orignial shade 
of the material. By doing this each time they were washed, they were kept like 
new. A package of dye mixed with a quart of boiling water should last a long 
time where light shades are desired. 



TO RID HOUSEPLANTS OF APHIS 

Take your plant to the kitchen sink and shower its whole top until every 
aphis and plant-louse is washed off. This is harmless and effectual. 



TO STOP HICCOUGHS 

Sit erect and inflate the lungs fully. Then, retaining the breath, bend for- 
ward slowly till the chest meets the knees. After slowly rising again to the 
erect position, slowly exhale the breath. Repeat second time. 



A YEAST HELP 

It is better to put the package of yeast in a drawer or on a cupboard shelf 
than to keep it air-tight, as yeast is a living plant and should have air, or it loses 
its raising power. 

EXCESSIVE PERSPIRATION 

Bathe daily under the arms with common laundry soap. If used faithfully, 
this will prevent odor, as well as being helpful in excessive perspiration. 



TO RID THE HOUSE OF ROACHES 

Calomel, borax and flour mixed together — one part calomel to three parts 
borax, and three parts flour — will rid a house of roaches and waterbugs. 



226 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

HOW TO WASH LIGHT WOOL WAISTS 

Stiffen the light wool waists in half skim milk and half water instead of in 
starch. They will be found "just right" and so much easier to iron. 



WHIPPED SOUR CREAM SWEETENED 

If the cream is sour for breakfast, drop in a bit of soda and whip well. It 
will not curdle in the coffee and can hardly be detected unless too much is used. 



ELASTIC INSTEAD OF RODS FOR CURTAINS 

Hang the sash curtains on a half inch elastic instead of a rod or string and 
see how much nicer they look. Cut elastic a little shorter than width of windows, 
sew a brass ring on each end and hook in place on tiny brass hooks. 



NEWSPAPERS AS A STOVE-CLEANER 

Keep a quantity of newspapers conveniently near your range or cook- 
stove. After each meal, or whenever anything is spilled on the stove, with a 
Hberal handful of paper rub the soiled places briskly till dry, and you will find 
that not only will the stove present a neat appearance, but a thorough blacking 
will be needed less often than otherwise. It also cleans and keeps the nickel 
bright. 

ASBESTOS MATS FOR THE GAS RANGE 

Many persons complain of the treachery of gas stoves. The trouble can be 
eliminated by obtaining asbestos mats for each eye of the gas range. By placing 
one of these mats under each vessel and turning the gas to medium heat, it can 
be left as safely as if using a coal range. 



STOVE POLISH 

Mix stove polish with turpentine instead of water. Apply and allow it to 
become perfectly dry; then the stove can be very easily polished. 



TO REMOVE PUTTY 

Apply a red-hot poker to putty and it will soften at once. It can be removed 
in one- tenth the time it takes to use acids. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 227 

INK STAINS ON LIGHT COLORED GOODS 

Ink stains may be removed from light goods by dampening the heads of 
matches and rubbing them on the ink spots vmtil they disappear. 



WASHING WOODWORK 

To wash windows and woodwork easily, take a pailful of tepid water, put 
into it a tablespoonf ul of kerosene ; wash thoroughly with a cloth wrung partially 
dry; then rub with newspapers until bright and shining. In wiping off furniture, 
wring the cloth out as dry as possible, wipe off all dust, and then take a soft, dry 
cloth and rub hard and dry. One does not need furniture pohsh. 



FOR CAR-SICKNESS 

For sickness caused by traveling in the cars, take a sheet of writing paper 
and place on the chest next to the body. 



TO STOP HICCOUGHS 

No matter how severe or how long the spasm of hiccoughs, by eating freely 
of ice cream you will have no difficulty in stopping it very soon. 



TO PREVENT INK FROM BLOTTING 

To prevent ink from blotting or running, after erasing mistake, or scratching 
out with knife, scrape over the spot a small quantity of rosin and rub over and in 
well with a clean handkerchief on end of finger. Then place over spot a smooth 

?iece of paper, and having removed the rosin, rub hard with some smooth article, 
'ou may then insert the desired word with ink without fear of blotting. 



WASHING WOOL SHAWLS 

Many people having yam or wool shawls (knit or crocheted) find that they 
stretch out of shape and present a hopelessly stringy appearance after washing. 

Lay your shawl out, perfectly flat, on a piece of cloth sufficiently large to 
cover it, and baste with heavy thread several times around, until held firmly 
in place. Cover with another piece of cheesecloth, and baste this enough to hold 
well in place. Wash in good suds of wool soap, squeezing rather then rubbing; 
rinse well, pressing out as much water as you can without wringing; hang on 
line to dry. When properly dry, remove covering, and you will find your shawl 
in perfect condition — light and fluffy, and not stretched at all. 



228 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

CURE FOR TOOTHACHE 

A cure for toothache is made of equal parts of oil of cloves, laudanum and 
creosote. This should be used with great care. 



LUSTROUS STOVE POLISH 

A pinch of sugar dropped into the stove blacking greatly heightens the 
lustre. 



WHITE KITCHEN FLOORS 

A white kitchen floor is obtained only by the use of cold water and common 
soap. Hot water and washing powders tend to make it yellow. 



HOW TO KEEP FURS 

Sprinkle dark furs well with black pepper, wrap up in brown paper, and put 
away in hat-box, and you can keep for years with no fear of injury from moths. 
To keep white furs, use white paper, and when it is time to use again, hang out 
and shake out well. 



TO RENEW LINEN 

Linen suits often become badly faded while the fabric is still good and ser- 
viceable. To renew or freshen to make over for children, fill wash boiler half full 
of nice, clean hay, boil an hour or more in sufficient water to cover the hay; strain 
through coarse cloth into jar large enough to entirely submerge the goods. Wash 
them and put to soak for twenty-four hours. Be sure it is well covered with the 
tea (best to weight it down); rinse in cold water and dry in the shade. The 
result will be a nice shade of green linen. How durable the color is, anyone 
who has tried to wash grass stains out of cloth will know. 



APPLICATION FOR APPENDICITIS 

Equal parts of water and spirits of turpentine. Heat and apply hot fomen- 
tations, until all inflammation is relieved. At the same time take internally 
sweet oil in teaspoonful doses at frequent intervals. 



GARGLE FOR TONSILITIS 

Put a few drops of spirits of myrrh in half a glass of water, and gargle the 
throat often. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 229 



FROZEN FEET 
Make a poultice of soft soap and cornmeal, and bind on feet. 



REMEDY FOR POISON IVY 
If poisoned by poison ivy, paint the affected parts with iodine. 



CRANBERRY POULTICES 

Cranberry poultices are cooling, and afford speedy relief to those suffering 
from erysipelas; poultices made from cooked cranberries, applied hot, often 
relieve cases of inflammation of the bowels. 



BOILING CABBAGE 

A couple of little red peppers dropped in the kettle with cabbage will keep 
the odor from going all over the house. 



TO CLEAN A CHIMNEY 

To clean a chimney, place a piece of zinc on the live coals in the stove. 
The vapor produced by the zinc will carry off the soot by chemical decomposition. 

EVERLASTING FENCE-POSTS 

To make fence-posts durable, take boiled Unseed oil and stir into it pulverized 
charcoal to the consistency of paint; put a coat of this over the timber and it will 
never decay. 

RENOVATING BED-CLOTHES 

After washing and thoroughly drying bed-quilts and "comfortables," fold 
and roll them tight, then give them a beating with the rolling pin, to Uven up 
the batting. It will make them soft and new. 



UNPAPERED CAKE-TINS 

Do not paper cake-tins, but grease freely with lard, put in dry flour and 
shake about until it has entirely covered the grease. Put in cake batter, and 
when it is done it leaves the tin easily without use of knife, and does not adhere 
in any place. You have no broken cake and no paper to peel off. 



230 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

NEW USES FOR RUBBER TAPE 

If rubbers tear down at the top, draw the edges together neatly with strong 
linen thread, using the "ball stitch," then on the inside of rubber apply a strip 
of adhesive tape large enough to extend well beyond the threads. The inside 
lids of trunks and suit-cases can be repaired with the tape very successfully by 
passing an iron, slightly warmed, over the tape while held tightly stretched in 
the proper position. It makes a " hinge " superior to that usually found on a new 
trunk. 



CLEANSING WATER BOTTLES 

A little salt and vinegar mixed together is splendid for cleansing the inside 
of water bottles, etc. 



MOTHS' ENEMY 

Equal parts of coal-oil and turpentine mixed together is splendid for 
painting the inside of wardrobes, cupboards, etc., to keep away the moths. 



TO STRETCH NET AND LACE CURTAINS 

Measure the length and width of curtains before wetting them, then when 
washed ready to stretch, tack small brads about an inch or so apart all around 
the attic window-casing, according to the measurement of the curtains, and 
stretch a pair or two pairs right over the window, where they dry rapidly. This 
keeps them all the same size and prevents them from being torn to pieces, as they 
so often are on stretchers. The longer curtains you can stretch by tacking to 
the floor. Also scrim and Swiss curtains done this way hang much prettier than 
when laundered in the usual way. The small brads do not mar the casing, and 
any window with a sunny exposure or otherwise can be used. You can leave 
the brads in casing to be used for other curtains at any time. 



OPENING KEYED CANS 

Tin cans furnished with a key can be opened with greater ease if a skewer 
is passed through the opening of key, thus giving a greater leverage. 



TO EXTINGUISH A FIRE 

In extinguishing a fire, one quart of water applied to the bottom of the 
blaze will do more to put it out than ten quarts at the top. A few gallons at 
the bottom of the flames will rise in clouds of steam when the fire .is rising and 
quench it. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 231 

WHEN BUYING CANNED GOODS 

Examine canned goods before buying. If the ends of the can bulge, reject 
them, as this denotes the presence of gas, which renders the contents unfit 
for food. 



DISH-WASHING MADE EASY 

Use a small whisk broom in place of a dish-rag in washing dishes. It 
saves the hands and can be kept sweet and clean by scalding after using. Use 
the broom for the pans and kettles, as well as the china, and dry them on a 
separate towel kept for that purpose. This is especially helpful when one is 
obliged to wash dishes in hard or alkali water. 



NICE PUMPKIN PIE 

To improve the taste and flavor of a pumpkin custard, add a small handful 
of shredded cocoanut; this does not hurt the pumpkin taste, but gives a pleasant 
flavor. 



"LADY BALTIMORE" CAKE 

Many persons upon reading Owen Wister's book, "Lady Baltimore," were 
disappointed because the recipe for the cake, held secret for many years by the 
aristocracy of South Carolina, was not given. Here is the original recipe for that 
famous cake, which is truly dehcious. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three and one-half cupfuls of 
flour, one cupful of sweet milk, whites of six eggs, two level teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of rose water, or vanilla. Cream butter, add 
sugar gradually, beating continuously; then add milk and flavoring, next the 
flour into which baking powder is sifted, and lastly, stiffly beaten whites of eggs, 
folding them in lightly. Bake in three layers. 

Filling: Dissolve three cupfuls of granulated sugar in one cupful of boiling 
water, cook until it threads, then pour it over stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
stirring constantly. Add one cupful of chopped raisins, one cupful of chopped 
nut meats (pecans preferred) and five figs cut into very thin strips. Ice top and 
sides of cake. 



QUICKLY MADE HOT BISCUITS 

At dinner, when your kitchen is warm, measure flour, put in salt, baking pow- 
der (or soda), then rub in the necessary quantity of lard, having it ready to mix 
with either sweet or sour milk. In the morning it requires but a few moments 
to mix it and "pick it and pat it and put it in the pan," and how delicious they 
are buttered while hot. If one will keep this prepared flour on hand, mixing 
bread ceases to be the bugbear so many consider it. 



232 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

EXTERMINATING RED ANTS 
Sprinkle the shelves with plenty of Cayenne pepper. 



TO REDUCE THE FUEL BILL 

To cook soup, mush, dried fruit, or anything that takes a slow fire and long 
time to cook. Try using the hot-air register. First bring to a boil on stove, then 
wrap clean cloth around vessel with heavy shawl over all, and put on the register. 
No extra heat from register is needed. Soup-bone treated in this way at seven 
in the morning will be thoroughly cooked by noon; mush put on the night be- 
fore will be fine for frying next morning. 



FRESH LETTUCE 

Lettuce will keep for days if washed and wrapped in a dry towel and laid 
on ice or on a cold cellar floor. 



PLUM TARTS IN MID- WINTER 

Take good, ripe plums (they must not be at all bruised) put into gem jars, 
screw down tops and put into the oven, leaving them there till the fruit cracks; 
take out and fill jars up with boiling water; screw down tops and put away. 
These will keep for months and are most delicious. 



TO SOFTEN THE NAILS 
Rub cold cream on the nails at night; this will soften and improve them. 



PREVENTS DISAGREEABLE ODOR 

When any liquid boils over on the stove, a Uttle salt sprinkled on will pre- 
vent the disagreeable odor. 



TO COOK SWEET APPLES 

In cooking sweet apples, add a spoonful of vinegar to a small saucepan of 
fruit, and they will cook soft, as well as sour ones. 



TO REMOVE AXLE-GREASE FROM COTTON 

Rub a little stale butter on spot, and lay away over night. Rinse out next 
morning with cold water and any good laundry soap. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 233 



KEROSENE AS A CLEANSER 

If one gets fresh paint on a garment, wet a cloth in kerosene and rub it off. 
Unless the fabric is very dehcate, it will not injure it, and will soon evaporate. 

If a paint brush gets hard with paint or varnish, soak it in kerosene. 

If one gets axle grease or varnish on their hands, which will not wash off, 
wash them in kerosene, then in hot water and soap. 



RAILROAD BREAD 

At dinner time save out about a pint of mashed potatoes and enough of the 
water in which they have been boiled to make about one and one-half quarts. 
At bed time, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one compressed yeast cake, or 
any good yeast; let it be in a warm place over night. It should have more or 
less white foam on the top if the yeast is good. Add a pinch of soda. Then 
put in the bread-pan a pint of boiling water, two tablespoonfuls of salt, half as 
much butter or lard. Stir it thick with flour; now add the potato water, and 
more flour, mixing it hard. When light, put into tins, and bake when the loaves 
have about doubled in size. This will make four large loaves, which should be 
done for dinner. Very easy and good. 



TONIC FOR THIN PEOPLE 

A teaspoonful of olive oil is an excellent tonic for thin people. It is very 
good for a sallow complexion, as it acts directly on the liver. Taken for costive- 
ness, it acts on the bowels without griping pains. 



TO REMOVE STAINS FROM TABLE LINEN 

Dissolve five cents' worth of oxalic acid in a pint of water; also dissolve 
five cents' worth of chloride of lime in a pint of water. When the tablecloths or 
napkins are washed ready for the boiler, dip the stained parts in the solution, 
first the chloride of lime and then the oxalic acid ; then boil and finish as usual. 
Years of experience have proved the recipe infallible. 



KEEPS THE HAIR FROM FALLING 

To stop the hair from falling out and to cure dandruff, put a tablespoonful 
of flour of sulphur in a quart bottle, and fill the bottle with rain water; let stand 
until the sulphur settles to the bottom of bottle, then use the water to wash 
the scalp two or three times a week. You can wet the tips of your fingers and 
rub the scalp, and not wet your hair, if you do not wish to. There will be no odor 
of sulphur, as it seems to be deodorized when it settles. 



234 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

ONIONS IN DIPHTHERIA 

A pan of sliced raw onions, placed in a room where there is diphtheria, will 
absorb the poison and prevent the disease from spreading. The onions should 
be buried every morning and fresh ones cut up. 



TO REMOVE TAR STAINS 

Rub tar stains with a few drops of salad oil. They can then be completely 
removed by the application of benzine. 

Cold rain-water and soap will remove machine grease from washable fabrics. 



TO KEEP MEAT FRESH 
Fresh meat beginning to sour will sweeten if placed out of doors over night. 



TO SOFTEN BOOTS AND SHOES 

Kerosene will soften boots and shoes that have been hardened by water, and 
will render them as pliable as new ones. 



TO CURE A COLD 

Put one ounce of camphor gum in a half pint of good whiskey and inhale the 
fumes often; also sniff it up the nostrils. I have kjaown it to break up a cold, 
if used in time. 



CLEANS KNIFE HANDLES 

Half a lemon dipped in salt and rubbed over the discolored white handles of 
knives will make them white like new ones. 



NEW BATHING HINT 

Bathing in water made strong with bicarbonate of soda will prevent any 
odor of perspiration and help to cure rheumatism. 



TOO MUCH SALT 

If in cooking, food is too salty, add a teaspoonf ul of sugar. The sugar 
counteracts the taste of the salt. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 235 

USEFUL AND ORNAMENTAL PEPPERS 

The "Coral Gem Bouquet Pepper" makes a beautiful little pot plant for the 
house in winter, and the peppers are good to season anything in which you would 
use common ground pepper. 

TO LAUNDER LACE CURTAINS QUICKLY 

To launder lace curtains quickly, and easier than pinning them to the carpet, 
wash and starch rather stiff, then pin them on the clothes line by each scallop 
in one edge, full length; stretch and smooth out nicely and leave them to dry, 
and when dry lay a damp cloth on the scallops that were pinned on the line and 
press them smooth. That will be all the ironing they will need, and the curtains 
will be crisp and look like new ones. 



CLEANING SILVER QUICKLY 

In cleaning silverware, stir whiting in alcohol to the consistency of cream; 
put on with a woolen cloth; when dry, rub off, and the silver is cleaned, unless 
very black, when a second application may be necessary. 



TO REDUCE FEVER 

Nothing is better to reduce a fever than hot sage tea with a few drops of 
spirits of nitre in it. The dose of nitre varies from three drops for an infant 
to a teaspoonful for an adult. 

WORTH TRYING 

When you put your bread to rise on a cold night, try placing your dish on a 
warm soapstone. 

Put horse-radish through a meat-cutter, instead of grating it. 

When eggs are scarce, put a dessertspoonful of cornstarch for every egg 
in your rice pudding. 

Try putting a teaspoonful of baking powder in your buckwheat batter. 

In baking juicy pies, put a teaspoomful of tapioca in each pie. It prevents 
juice from running out. 

To open a fruit-can, try placing a warm flatiron on the cover for a few 
minutes. 

When scraping fish, hold it under water, to prevent scales from flying. 

When cleansing rice, wash it twice in warm water; it is said to be more 
effective in removing starch than several washings in cold water. 

In frying doughnuts, drop a few slices of peeled Irish potatoes in the fat. 
It will prevent the cakes from absorbing too much grease. 

Try alcohol to remove grass stains. 



236 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

HOT WATER FOR BRUISES 
Bathe all wounds, bruises, cuts, etc., in hot water to prevent discoloration. 



CURES STOMACH TROUBLE 

A cup of hot water taken before each meal and on going to bed, is a sure 
cure for constipation and chronic stomach trouble, if persistently taken. I cured 
myself of stomach trouble of twenty years' standing. 



TO KEEP GRANITE-WARE CLEAN 

In a hurry, sometimes you would like to put your nice granite-ware pan 
over the fire, but you don't like to blacken it. Rub the bottom with lard, and 
you will be surprised how easily the black will wash off. 



TO CLEAN WHITE FURS 

Buy ten cents' worth of plaster of Paris, and with the hands rub into the 
fur until every part is reached; then hang on a line and beat gently (I use a rattan 
beater), until the powder is all out. Repeat the process, using cornstarch in- 
stead of plaster of Paris, and you will find your furs are white and fluffy as when 
first bought. The work should be done, if possible, in the open air. 



SHEARS IN THE KITCHEN 

Have a pair of shears in your kitchen, "or better yet, narrow-bladed barbers' 
scissors, (which cut anything, from a piece of thread to tin and zinc) and find 
out by experience how much better they are than the generally dull knife for 
neat service, in cutting into shape any kind of meat or pork for frying. 

Especially useful are the scissors when preparing fish for cooking, as they 
cut through the tough skins of either salmon, haddock, codfish, pollock, mackerel, 
or any frying fish, so very easily and to whatever shape or size desired. 



FOR TIRED FEET 

Tired, painful feet will find relief by frequently changing from one kind of 
shoes to another. 



CURE FOR RHEUMATISM 

Gasoline is a cure for rheumatism and neuralgia. Rub the afflicted parts 
thoroughly with the gasoline, taking care not to be near a fire or lighted lamp. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 237 

ABOUT THE SINK 

Should the sink pipe become clogged, take a piece of hose about two and one- 
half feet long, with a coupler on one end, and couple onto faucet. Insert the 
other end in pipe (after removing strainer), hold down firmly, turn water on 
full force, and you will find it does its work well, removing the obstacle. 



MAKES TOUGH STEAK TENDER 

Should you have a piece of tough steak, pound well, dip in vinegar quickly 
and fry in very hot butter at once. You will then have tender meat. 



WASHING WOOLEN UNDERWEAR 

Before washing, turn wrong side out, hang on line out of doors, whisk thor- 
oughly and leave out to air. You will be surprised how much nicer they wash 
and press. 

POTATO USED TO SPROUT CUTTINGS 

To insure sprouting of syringa or other shrubs from cuttings, insert the end 
in a potato before planting. 

FROST-BITTEN PLANTS 

Jack Frost stole into a room from which the heat had been accidentally 
turned oflf, and did his very worst to a window full of plants left to his mercy. 
Fortunately I discovered, in the morning, before the warm air had been let into 
the room again, that they were "stiff as a board." It occurred to me that I 
had heard of the remedy — a dark closet; and as there was one close by, I dragged 
my luckless " window-garden " into it, shutting the door so that no sudden light 
or heat could enter. Toward evening I peeped in with bated breath, and was 
amazed to find my plants restored to their pristine beauty. 



NEWSPAPER PILLOW FOR TRAVEIING 

A newspaper crushed into a soft ball makes an excellent cushion for resting 
the head on the train, and is most comfortable, owing to the fact that there ia 
a certain amount of spring to a rolled paper, which will prevent one's feeling the 
jar and motion of a train even better than a feather pillow. 

When traveling by night in summer, I carry an old piece of white cloth and 
several thumb tacks. I moisten the cloth and tack it firmly over the window 
screen of my berth, and find that this simple device serves to keep out a great 
deal of dust and soot without depriving me of air. 



238 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO REMOVE FRUIT STAIN 
Hot milk is even better than boiling water to take out fruit stains. 



BRILLIANT WINDOW-GLASS 

Starch rubbed over windows or mirrors instead of whiting will make them 
even brighter and does not hurt the hands. 



ONIONS AS A DEODORIZER 
Sliced onions in a pail of water will remove the odor of new paint. 



NUTMEG IN CREAMED POTATOES 
A little nutmeg in creamed potatoes is a wonderful improvement. 



NON-DRIPPING CREAM PITCHER 

A speck of butter rubbed on the nose of the cream-pitcher will prevent the 
cream from running down on the tablecloth. 



FOR SNAKE BITE 
Apply gunpowder and salt, or an egg thickened with salt. 



DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD 

To the yolks of two eggs well-beaten add one-half cupful of strained honey, 
one tablespoonful of sugar and the juice of two lemons. Cook until thick. 
When cool add one-half cupful of whipped cream. Serve with fruit salad. 



MEASURING FOR HOOKS AND EYES 

Keep a half -yard of "tape hooks and eyes," to baste on dresses when fitting. 
When ready for the permanent fastening, lay right sides together and baste 
securely, then, with a long stout thread, begin at the waist-line and take stitches 
in the edge of both pieces as far apart as you wish your hooks, remove the basting 
and shift the thread until the pieces are an inch or more apart, place a hook 
at each stitch on the other, and you may be sure they will be even, and you are 
saved the trouble of measuring from hook to hook. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 239 

NEW WAY TO COOK RICE 

Put the desired quantity of rice into a thin cloth, tied loosely enough to allow 
for swelling, and place it in a kettle of salted boiUng water and allow it to stay 
one hour, then take out and prepare. It will be whole, light and snowy, present- 
ing a most appetizing dish, and is easier cooked, requiring no stirring. 



COLORING FADED RIBBONS 

To color faded silk ribbons or silk of any description, procure tissue paper 
several shades darker than you wish your ribbon to be when colored; wash and 
rinse the silk or ribbon, scald the tissue paper and put the wet material in the 
hot water, moving it about until the desired shade is obtained. Squeeze from 
the colored water and press with a moderately-hot iron, pressing hard. Yellowed 
ribbon can be colored a beautiful pink, using rose pink paper. This is for the 
lighter colors, as pink, blue and white. 



UNIQUE ANT EXTERMINATOR 

Take the parings of cuciunbers and throw around wherever the ants come. 
Each time you have fresh rinds throw them among the old ones. Don't feel 
discouraged if the ants do not leave immediately. When cleaning the closet 
or other place where the ants come, do not throw the rinds away; put them back 
again, and continue to add fresh ones as you obtain them. Use for several 
weeks. To drive away red ants, rub the inside skin of cuciunbers over or across 
their paths, and you will not be bothered with them again. 



WHIP CREAM FOR SALAD DRESSING 

Whip the cream to be added to salad dressing. A thicker, richer dressing 
than if plain cream is used will result. 



SWEET APPLE PICKLES 

Use the spiced vinegar in which peaches or pears were pickled in making 
sweet apple pickles. These can be made in the winter after the pears and peaches 
have been eaten, and will be of delicious flavor. 



TO MEND A COAT LINING 

To mend a coat lining that is worn about the arm-holes, shape pieces like 
a dress shield, making them just large enough to cover the worn spots. Hold 
them at the seam full enough so they can be pressed down flat at the outer edges. 



240 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

DUSTING THE SEWING MACHINE 

Use a small paint brush with long handle, and the dust will be dislodged with 
perfect ease. 

SAVES YOUR HANDS 

To save burning your hands when taking pies, etc., from the back of the 
oven, sUp a pancake turner under the dish and draw to the front of the oven. 
The turner is also useful in removing cookies from the kneading board. 



SCREEN FOR A CYLINDER STOVE 

When the door of cylinder stove is left open there is always danger of pieces 
of coal snapping out and setting fire to whatever they fall upon. 

Take a piece of quarter-inch square-mesh chicken wire a half-inch larger 
all the way round than the door. On one side cut notches to fit over the hinges 
of the door when open. On the opposite side cut one notch to slip over the 
door-catch and secure the screen in place. This screen-door may be blackened 
with stove enamel. 



EGGSHELLS TO CLEAN BOTTLES 

Eggshells dried and crushed are the very best bottle cleaner for baby's 
bottle ; use rain water and soap or hard water and soda. 



CANNING VEGETABLES 

Snap string beans in halves; then pack them in cans as tightly as possible. 
Turn water in until the air bubbles are all out. Place the covers on and let them 
stand over night. In the morning again allow water to run over them, and 
work out all bubbles. Then place the covers on and partly fasten. Boil for six 
hours, remove from fire and seal tightly. Small early beets, shell beans and peas 
can be canned in the same way. The secret of success is in packing tightly and 
getting out all the air bubbles. 

To can corn, cut from cob and press it firmly into can with a roimd stick 
which just fits into the neck of the jar. Then scrape milk from the cob to fill 
the can — no water should be added. Cook the same as the other vegetables. 



TO CLEAN LAMP BURNERS 

When yoiu" lamp burners become black and do not give a good light, try 
boihng them in water in which you have parboiled white beans and with a Uttle 
rubbing they will be as bright as ever. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 241 

TO REMOVE MILDEW 

Rub the article with soft soap, completely covering all the spots, then lay 
on the grass or hang up where the hot sun will strike it. In a few days wash out 
the soap and boil it. If you have missed any spots, repeat the process. This 
is a sure recipe and removed the mildew from a white dress which was perfectly 
black with it and everything else tried was a failure. 



TO COVER BUTTONS 

To cover buttons smoothly without the little corners which so often come 
in the cloth, cut the circle of the goods to be used, about one and one-half times 
the size of the button ; gather as near the edge as possible and slip over the 
button. Draw the thread tightly and fasten. 



TO SWEEP RUGS 

The most satisfactory way to sweep a dusty room is to use a broom for a 
short distance and then gather the dust and dirt with carpet sweeper — continuing 
in like manner until finished. It is not only easier and more sanitary, but at end 
of season carpet is almost free from dust. 



ELEVEN BRIEF SUGGESTIONS 

Worn out mantles from gas burners are superior to any silver polish. 

Remove mud spots on black clothes by rubbing with raw potato. 

Make starch with soap suds, to give gloss to linen and prevent irons from 
sticking. 

Clean silver with deep engraving with a paste made of whiting and ammonia, 
apply with a brush. 

Use olive oil when salting almonds or peanuts. It gives a finer flavor than 
butter. 

Keep an old tea-kettle on the hot-air register, and have hot water all the 
time, besides saving gas. 

A little grated horse-radish added to milk gravy is nice on boiled beef. 

Use milk instead of water when making cornmeal mush to fry; it will brown 
in half the time. 

Put scraps of cold meat through food chopper and stir in cornmeal mush 
when making it to fry. An appetizing dish for breakfast. 

Add a beaten egg and milk to cold boiled rice, form into cakes and fry. Nice 
for tea. 

Rub worn spots on black kid gloves and shoes with a mixture of olive oil 
and black ink. 



NERVE TONIC 
There is no better nerve tonic than a cold sponge-bath every morning. 



242 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO ALLAY SORENESS 

Oil of peppermint dropped in a fresh cut will allay soreness and prevent 
taking cold. 

TO DRIVE OFF ANTS 

Mix five cents' worth of tartar emetic with equal parts of sugar; dissolved 
in water and placed in small dishes where the ants congregate, it will drive 
them away. As the water dries, add more. 



GASOLINE CLEANSING 

When washing silks, gloves, or other articles in gasoline, set the vessel con- 
taining the gasoline in a larger one partly filled with very hot water; this warms 
the gasoline and makes it more cleansing and pleasanter for the person doing 
the work. Wash each article as thoroughly as you would in soap and water; 
then rinse in more clean gasoUne and hang up to dry. 



NEW WAY TO GATHER 

Perhaps everyone will not know of this method of gathering: Use two 
threads, gathering one on the right side; then start from the end on the wrong 
side and gather back. Pull the threads as in drawing a bag, and the gathers are 
very evenly laid. 

NICE PUMPKIN PIES 

Put a little baking powder in pumpkin pies; they will be very light and it 
improves them very much. 

A BROKEN UMBRELLA HANDLE 

To fasten metal or any kind of an umbrella handle which will not hold, melt 
powdered alum and use while hot instead of glue. 



EASY WAY TO SPREAD THICK ICING 

Have you ever tried to make a thick icing and failed? Always line your 
cake pan with a stiff paper which has been cut to fit, about an inch higher than 
the sides of the pan. When the cake is baked leave the paper on. This forms 
a support for the icing which can be poured into any desired depth, and the paper 
can easily be removed. A thin layer of melted chocolate spread over a white 
icing makes a more elabroate cake with but little work. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MA KERS 243 

LOOSE LOW SHOES 

Low shoes that have become stretched will not slip up and down at the 
heel in walking, if a strip of velvet is pasted inside. The wear on the stocking 
will also be lessened. 



TO KILL BURDOCKS 

Pour a tablespoonf ul of gasoline in the crown of a burdock root after having 
out off all the leaves. 



REMEDY FOR HAY FEVER 

Keep the inside of the nostrils well anointed with cold cream or simple 
vaseline, and diligently use a menthol inhaler. This treatment commenced well 
before the mid-summer sneezing sets in, and continued faithfully throughout 
the hay fever season, will often cure and always mitigates the symptoms. 



TO SET COLORS 

Epsom salts dissolved in rinse water will set color and prevent the most 
delicate tint from fading. Use one heaping teaspoonful to a pailful of water 
(about six quarts) and have the clothes perfectly clean, else the salts will set 
the dirt. 



WALL-PAPER MATS 

Wall-paper makes the prettiest kind of mats for framing pictures. Take, 
for instance, a plain color with a few dainty flowers here and there and use it as 
a mat when framing some magazine cover. 



TO REMOVE PAINT STAINS 

If clothing is soiled by contact with paint, rub a small amount of butter on 
the soiled spots, letting it remain five or ten minutes. Then take a whisk broom 
dipped in hot water and brush; the stains will come off. 



DARNING COTTON HOSIERY 

For darning cotton hosiery, fine darning wool or silk-finished crochet cot- 
ton will be more satisfactory than ordinary darning cotton. The mended places 
will always be soft and not grow harsh and hurt the feet as happens when using 
darning cotton. 



244 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TAKING CASTOR OIL 

To destroy the repugnant taste of castor oil beat the oil with the white of 
an egg until both are thoroughly mixed. 



BROOMS 
Brooms wet in boiling suds weekly will last longer and sweep like new ones. 



TO CURE EARACHE 

Fill the ear with warm sweet cream, inserting cotton to keep the air out 
and the cream in. Then apply a hot-water bottle, or flatiron wrapped in paper. 
In ten or fifteen minutes the worst case of earache will be greatly eased or entirely 
gone. 

This remedy has been personally tested. I used to suffer greatly with the 
earache, and tried laudanum, onion-juice and other remedies which did not 
seem to help, and a friend prescribed the cream. It is a very simple remedy 
and is not injurious to the ear, though effectual. 



IN THE PANTRY 

Cover pantry shelves with white table oilcloth, the one and a quarter yard 
width being desirable; cut strips very straight the longest way of the shelf and 
about three inches wider. Put on with flour paste, allowing one edge to come 
up about one inch above the back of the shelf, the other to run over and paste 
under the lower edge of the front; this will last for years, only needing wiping off 
with a cloth and warm water. 



RAINCOAT BUTTONS 

Sew small buttons underneath, allowing the same thread to go through both 
buttons. 



SAFETY-PIN BODKIN 

When a rubber tape is too large for the eye of a bodkin, pin a safety-pin 
in the end of rubber or tape, and use Uke a bodkin. 



TO PRESERVE COLORS 

To prevent washable fabrics from fading, mix equal parts of vinegar and 
turpentine and cold water. Wet the goods thoroughly in this before washing. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 245 

TO PARE TOMATOES 

Ripe tomatoes may be easily skinned without scalding by scraping the 
tomato with the back of a knife. This saves both heating water and cooling 
the tomatoes after paring. 

FRUIT-TREE GUM MUCILAGE 

The glim found on peach, plum and cherry trees dissolved ip vinegar makes 
an excellent mucilage which will keep indefinitely. 



BISCUIT PAN 

Ask your tinner'^to cut a piece of Russian sheet iron, which, after being 
turned under one-half inch on all sides, will be just large enough to slip into yom- 
oven. Have an oblong ring riveted to one or both ends for use in drawing it 
from the oven. This will cost only from twenty to thirty cents and is a great 
time and fuel saver in baking cookies, biscuits, cream puffs, etc., as the work can 
be done much more quickly than by using the ordinary pans. Also, cookies 
and biscuits are more easily removed from this sheet, as there are no high sides 
to interfere. 



HAIR TONIC 

Dissolve in one-half pint of alcohol as much castile soap as it will take up. 
To this add two grains of tannin. Rub this well into the scalp every night and 
apply a little ahnond oil to the roots of the hair in the morning. After the hair 
has ceased falling out, apply once a week. 



TO FASTEN LEATHER UPON METAL 

Wash the metal with a hot solution of gelatine or pure glue. Having 
previously steeped the leather in a hot infusion of nut galls, press it upon the 
surface of the metal, being careful to remove all air bubbles. Place under a 
weight until cold. It adheres so firmly that it cannot be removed without tear- 
ing. 



TO POLISH OLD FURNITURE 

Wash the entire surface in a strong solution of washing powder, applying 
with brush or mop to save the hands, and rinse in soft warm water, rubbing dry. 
Let stand overnight. With a soft flannel or sponge (flannel is best) apply a 
coating made of equal parts of boiled linseed oil and turpentine, rubbing in thor- 
oughly. After standing at least twenty-four hours, apply a second coat, polish 
well with the hands, and you have piece of fiu-niture as handsome as new. 



246 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

IVY POISON 

On first finding that one has been poisoned with ivy, barley, wild parsnip, 
poison oak, or in fact, any of the vegetable poisons, bathe the parts in sweet 
spirits of nitre (Spt. arth. nit.). It will kill the poison as fast as it can be apphed. 
If, however, it runs untreated twenty-four or thirty-six hours, then add to every 
ounce of the nitre five grains of sugar of lead {Plumbi acetate), and apply freely 
as before, sometimes using several apphcations to effect a cure. 



NEW USE FOR SALT 

Salt thrown on fruit juice that has boiled over will stop the smell and make 
it more easy to remove the burnt mass. 



EIGHT LOAD-LIFTERS 

Commeal sprinkled thickly over freshly-spilled oil will entirely absorb it; 
renew frequently. 

Wipe up your carpets once a month with a cloth wrimg out of warm water 
and ammonia, with a tablespoonful of kerosene mixed in. 

A crust of bread put into the water in which greens are boiled will absorb 
all objectionable rankness of flavor. 

Milk added to the water in which palms are washed makes them glossy. 

Cut-flowers will keep fresh much longer if a small quantity of alum is added 
to the water in the vase. Make a solution of the alum by dissolving it in hot 
water, allowing it to cool, and then adding a tablespoonful to a pint of fresh 
water. 

Stains on woolen goods may be removed by using a mixtm-e of equal parts 
of glycerine and yolk of an egg. Spread it on the stain, let it stay half an hour 
or longer, then wash it out. 

Tea and coffee stains may be taken from a tablecloth by soaking the spots 
in glycerine and letting stand for several hours; afterward wash with soap and 
water. 



ONIONS FOR A DELICATE STOMACH 

Slice common onions very thin, and cover well with boiling water. Allow 
to stand about one minute, drain off the water and cover with very cold water, stir 
the onions well and again drain. Cover the second time with cold water and 
allow to stand for a short time, and the onions will be found crisp, mild, deUcioua 
and grateful to the most deUcate stomach. The strongest onions will lose their 
biting properties imder this treatment. 

Heat very hot the kettle in which onions have been cooked, and the dis- 
agreeable odor will entirely disappear. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 247 

MEDICINE-GLASS COVERS 

Cut a square of clean pasteboard (preferably white) which will project 
about one-fourth of an inch over top of glass. Then make a tiny pillow-slip 
to fit of linen or white cotton. It will be easy to remove at any time for washing. 
A square of thin glass can be used in place of the pasteboard, and the slip will 
prevent clinking. 

A PALETTE KNIFE 

Every housekeeper who owns a palette knife wonders how she ever did with- 
out one. It is a time and material saver. Being flexible, it can be shaped to the 
sides of a bowl, removing all of the mixture that has been prepared in it. It is 
also an excellent thing for removing cookies from pan or in egging and crumbing 
croquettes, cutlets, etc. 

COMFORT FOR EYE-GLASS WEARERS 

If the nose becomes irritated from eye-glass, rub the portion of the nose 
whereon the glasses rest with alum three or four times, and you will have no 
more trouble. 

PASTE THAT WILL KEEP A YEAR 

Dissolve a teaspoonful of alum in a quart of warm water. When cold, stir 
in flour to give it the consistency of thick cream, being particular to beat up all 
the lumps. Stir in as much powdered rosin as will lay on a silver dime, and throw 
in half a dozen cloves. Have on the fire a teacupful of boiling water; pour the 
flom* mixture into it, stirring well all the time. In a few minutes it will be the 
consistency of mush. Pour it into an earthen or china vessel; let it cool; lay 
a cover on, and put it in a cool place. When needed for use take out a portion 
and soften it in warm water. 



RICE FLOUR CEMENT 

This cement, much used in China and Japan, is made by mixing fine rice- 
flour with cold water and simmering over a slow fire until a thick paste is formed. 
This is superior to any other paste either for parlor or workshop purposes. When 
made of the consistency of plaster, models, busts, bas-rehefs, etc., may be formed 
of it, and the articles when dry are susceptible of high poUsh and very durable. 



A HANDY HOLDER 

A very convenient way to always have a holder handy is to fasten one to 
the apron band by means of a tape the length of the arm, and it will be with you 
all the time while you are at your work. 



248 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



SMOOTH MAYONNAISE 

In making a mayonnaise, add a pinch of soda to the vinegar, and you will 
never be troubled by the curdUng of the dressing when cooking. 



USE FOR OLD WAISTS 

A white shirt-waist that is worn out around the collar and arm-holes makes 
a neat under-body that will wear for some time if the neck is trimmed out square 
or round and bound and trimmed with narrow lace, cutting out the sleeves and 
trimming them also. A waist opening at either front or back may be used. 



GRASS-STAINS REMOVED 

Molasses rubbed on grass-stains on white dresses or undergarments will 
remove the stain 



TO RESTORE SCORCHED LINEN 

Mix the juice of two onions, one-half ounce of white soap, two ounces of 
fuller's earth and one-half pint of vinegar; boil together and cool Wore using; will 
remove scorch from muslin or Unen. 



TO COOK CRANBERRIES 

Select and wash three pints of berries, and put into stew-pan with one and 
a half pints of sugar and one pint of water. Stir thoroughly to dissolve the sugar. 
Cover closely, set on back of range where it will heat, for an hour or more-— if the 
berries pop it is too hot — do not stir them, as you desire to have the berries heat 
gradually in the syrup, without breaking. Uncover, draw forward, let boil 
rapidly eight minutes, when the berries should be clear, red and transparent. 
Cooked a Ettle longer, the juice will jell. 



BABY'S TABLE 

Line the table of baby's high-chair with oilcloth and lighten the task of 
keeping it clean. Fasten it on with paste. 



FOR CHILBLAIN SUFFERERS 

Rub into one spoonful of lard as much gunpowder as will make a stiff salve. 
Rub the feet well at night, leaving some salve on; bind closely with a cloth to 
keep from soiling bed linen and you will find almost instant rehef. If soreness 
remains, continue treatment several times, and rehef will be certain. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 249 

REMEDY FOR SPRAIN 

You will find the following simple and easily obtainable remedy unfailing 
for sprains: A raw egg mixed with table salt till it is the consistency of a thick 
paste, and applied directly to the skin. Leave it bound on the injured part 
until the plaster is perfectly dry, or over night. In order to be effective the eg^ 
and salt must be applied as soon after the injury as possible or before the bruised 
blood has settled in the injured part. The entire egg is to be used. 



TO REMOVE PIN-FEATHERS 

After the feathers are off, roll the bird thoroughly in powdered resin for a 
few minutes; dip carefully in hot water and hurry to the air with it. A gentle 
rubbing will free the bird from down and pin-feathers. 



TO FRESHEN SALT FISH 

Salt fish is more quickly freshened and more appetizing if washed in sour 
milk. 



TO CLEAR THE VOICE 

A raw egg beaten with a Uttle lemon juice will strengthen and clear the 
voice. 



FLAKY PIE CRUST 

Never turn pie crust over in rolling it out and the pies will require less lard 
and be richer and more flaky. 

BAKING NUT CAKE 

If you add nuts or chopped fruits to cake, to prevent them settling to bottom 
in baking, pour half of the dough in baking-tin, then half the fruit well floured, 
then add remaining half to rest of dough and pour in. The result will be pleasing. 



CANNED PIE PLANT 

Select stalks when the plant is young and tender, peel and cut in small pieces, 
mash in a stone crock, a little at a time, with a wooden potato masher, till the 
juice runs quite freely. Have glass fruit jars ready (and be sure to have new 
rubbers and good covers) and fill with the crushed plant, being sure to have it 
well covered with juice. Seal carefully and keep in a cool, dark cellar. 



250 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SHIRT-WAIST BELT 

A belt made from a half -yard of narrow elastic and fastened with hook and 
eye you will find is much more satisfactory than using a tape to hold a shirt-waist 
down. 



TO SWALLOW A POWDER 

When there is diflBculty in getting the patient to swallow a powder, simply 
beat the white of an egg thoroughly, mix with the powder and put in patient's 
mouth. It will be swallowed without trouble. 



TO WHITEN THE FACE AND HANDS 

To whiten the face and hands and keep them white, soft and smooth, once 
during the day and after supper wash well with good white soap and warm water, 
then wash them in buttermilk (fresh buttermilk is best) wipe lightly on a soft 
cloth and rub both face and hands thoroughly until perfectly dry with fine 
cornmeal. Meal which has been sifted twice is all right. This works Hke a 
charm on any skin. 

TO PREVENT HAIR FROM FALLING 

If the hair falls out, rub common table salt into the scalp for a few weeks, 
say three times a week, when it not only will stop coming out, but will promote 
a new and healthy growth. 

PROFUSE PERSPIRATION 

People affected with profuse perspiration should rub common baking-soda 
upon affected parts, and it will lessen the amount and act as a purifier. 



TO CLEAN RUSTY IRONS 

Do you know that rusty grates, and irons, or other fire-irons can be cleaned 
of rust and made bright by dipping meat skins or bacon rinds in molasses, and 
rubbing the iron? 

MOTHS IN A CARPET 

Wring out a crash towel, and spread it smoothly on the carpet where moths 
are suspected or detected; iron it dry with a hot iron, repeating if necessary. 
The hot steam will penetrate the carpet (not injuring the color at all) and kill 
both moth and eggs. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 251 

TO DRIVE AWAY ROACHES 

K sliced cucumbers or the rinds be placed where roaches are troublesome, 
the pests will be driven away or poisoned. 



ANT EXTERMINATOR 

To exterminate little red ants, use a strong solution of alum washed into 
everj^ crevice, upon and under shelves, and wnerever it can be put without 
injuring the poUsh of woodwork. 

TO REMOVE INK STAINS 

One day my small girlie tipped over my bottle of ink on the dining-room 
table. I was in despair. Tablecloth, table-mat, tray cloths, napkins, all were 
saturated. I had a bottle of oxalic acid solution which I kept for the purpose of 
taking out iron rust. I turned it all in an agateware basin and set it on the stove. 
When boihng hot I dipped the stained pieces up and down in the liquid until 
every thread of linen was wet, then I rinsed in hot water and proceeded to wash 
in the regular way, boiling all in soap suds. Every trace of the ink was gone and 
my table linen looked as nice and white as if nothing had happened. I have 
tried the method with smaller ink spots many times since, and find it works well 
with white goods every time. 

SEA-FOAM CANDY 

To one-half cup of water, add two cups of sugar and one-half cup of syrup 
(honey drip best). Let this boil until it hardens in water. Be sure to cook 
long enough; can't cook too long. Take from stove and stir into the well-beaten 
whites of two eggs. Beat imtil stiff, add nuts and pour into buttered tins. 



TO POLISH JEWELRY AND SILVERWARE 

Dissolve one-half of a five-cent bar of cocoanut oil soap in one pint of am- 
monia; add a small quantity of water; shake well before using and apply with 
a tooth-brush. Brush until bright and clean, rinse in cold water and dry quickly 
with sawdust or soft silk cloth. Hardwood sawdust preferred. 



TO EASE TIGHT SHOES 

A shoe that is uncomfortable and pinches badly can be made to fit perfectly 
by placing the foot with shoe on where you can pour hot water on all the places 
that hurt. Let the shoe dry on the foot; it will shape to the foot and cause no 
more trouble. 



252 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



TO HANDLE FEATHERS 

In removing feathers from one pillow to another, take a tin can with both 
ends melted out (or better still, make a large pasteboard tube), tie or sew firmly 
an end in each pillow, and shake feathers through. 



NEW USE FOR SANDPAPER 

When flatirons and kettles become dark or rusted, try sandpaper combined 
with a small amount of muscle to make them look like new. Also on new- 
burned cooking vessels, the discolored work-table, butter bowl, broomhandle 
and other unvarnished woodwork. 



SIMPLE REMEDY FOR GOITRE 

That much-dreaded affliction, goitre, may be easily cured in its early stages 
by the patient and persistent use of salt and water. 

Make a solution of salt and water as strong as possible, using so much salt 
that there is always some remaining undissolved at the bottom of the dish. 
Wring a thick cloth out of this and bind on the throat at night, with a dry towel 
over it. The wet cloth should be thick enough to retain the moisture all night. 
This treatment should be followed faithfully for some months, it may require 
six months or more to complete the cure. Some years ago I had a clearly- 
defined goitre which was completely removed by the above treatment, and it has 
never returned. 



NEW USES FOR GLYCERINE 

Hot lemonade for a cold, if made with glycerine instead of sugar, will make 
the remedy more valuable. 

When washing oilcloth, put a teaspoonful of glycerine and a lump of borax, 
about the size of a cranberry, into two quarts of water. This solution cleans and 
leaves a polish which makes the oilcloth look hke new and does not affect even 
the most delicate colors. 

Shoes dressed with glycerine will keep black and soft. When shoes are wet, 
before putting them away to dry they should be stuffed with paper and when 
nearly dry rubbed with glycerine. 



TO WASH THE HAIR 

To one quart of soft water, add one heaping teaspoonful of baking soda; 
wash hair thoroughly in this. If very dirty, wash through two waters, then 
take one quart of water, add one tablespoonful of salt, wash again and rinse in 
clear water twice; let the hair dry before brushing and it will be very soft and 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 253 

A GOOD LINIMENT 

Essence or extract of wintergreen, one part, and alcohol, two parts, make a 
most excellent liniment for sprains, lame back, etc., and has been known to cure 
bad cases of the latter in a single night. 



WINDOW CLEANING IN WINTER 

To clean windows on the outside easily and quickly, first wipe off the dust 
with a dry cloth, then with a cloth which has been dipped in kerosene. Polish 
with a soft cloth. This method is especially good in cold weather, when water 
would freeze on the glass. 



OLD-FASHIONED SALVE 

Melt together equal portions of resin and beeswax with twice the quantity 
of mutton-tallow, and use for boils or inflammation of any kind. Always apply 
warm. Especially good for gathered breasts. 



PITTING CHERRIES 

Take a common glass medicine dropper, put small end on blossom end of 
cherry; push, and you have a perfect cherry with no stone. 



TO EXTERMINATE RED ANTS 

Remove all eatables and place a plate or saucer slightly greased with lard in 
the cupboard: this will soon fill with ants, when you can shake them into the 
fire or hot water and replace your plate. This will soon destroy the nest of ants. 
I have tried many ways, but found this one the best. 



FACTS ABOUT POTATOES 

If, when boiling potatoes with "jackets" on, they are done before ready to 
serve, put in the oven, and when served they will be dry and mealy; I sometimes 
purposely put them to boil half an hour earlier, and then put them in the oven; 
they can scarcely be distinguished from baked potatoes. 

When potatoes burst on the outside before they are cooked in the center, 
pour in a cup of cold water after they have cooked until the outside is tender; 
finish cooking and you will be pleased with the result. 

When boiling whole peeled potatoes, add salt to water as soon as they are put 
on the stove, and they will stay whole. This also applies to raw potatoes when 
cut in strips and fried. 



254 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

NAIL WOUNDS 

If unfortunately a nail is stepped on, burn wool on coals, hold foot over this 
for twenty minutes, or until a yellow juice exudes, and pain will cease. 



TO FRESHEN COFFEE 

When roasted coffee is tough or hard to grind, heat or dry in the oven a few 
minutes, and it will be easily ground. 



TO CURE SOFT CORNS 

Take the common green bean leaf and pound to a pulp; apply to the 
corn at once, binding it on to keep in place. Change as often as convenient, 
and in a few days the corn will be completely destroyed. If the leaf is hard to 
get, or it be winter time, plant beans in a jar and raise the same as any house plant. 



TO CLEAN A PIANO 

Remove finger-marks and dirt from a piano with pure olive oil. Rub the 
oil on the wood with cheesecloth, then with a fresh cloth remove traces of the 
oil. For a final polish rub the wood with a soft piece of chamois skin. 



TO RENOVATE SHOES 

After blacking children's shoes that are rather the worse for wear, give them 
a thin coat of good varnish and they will not wear rough or need blacking nearly 
so soon. This will not hurt the leather. 



FOR ANT STINGS 

Apply common baking soda mixed with sweet spirits of nitre to form a paste. 
Keep moist with the nitre and it will soon reheve the pain. 



GREEN FOOD FOR CANARIES 

To keep the canary supplied with something green during the winter, take 
a large sponge, soak it well, and shake over it every day the sweepings of birdie's 
cage. In a few days the seeds sprout, and you will have a beautiful green ball 
which makes a pretty room decoration and affords green food for the canary all 
winter. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 255 



DELICIOUS TEA 

Fifteen minutes before serving time place the usual amount of tea in pot 
•with enough cold water to cover; let stand until serving time; then pour on 
boiling water and serve at once. 

TO KEEP GRAPES 

To keep grapes fresh for winter use, dip the end of each stem into hot 
sealing-wax and pack one layer in a shallow box between grape leaves or paper. 
Be careful to remove all broken or decayed grapes. Keep in a cool, dry place. 



CANNED TOMATOES 

Canned tomatoes will never spoil if you salt them and add a teaspoonf ul of 
pepper corns to be removed when the can is opened for use. Salt to taste and 
keep in a cool, dark place. 

TO KEEP PICKLES 

Vinegar will keep better on all kinds of pickles and chow-chow, if a piece 

of horseradish is added. 



TO MAKE WHIPPED CREAM 

To make whipped cream, first beat the white of an egg very stiff, then add 
cream, flavoring and sugar, and stir a moment. 



TWO WAYS TO WASH COLORED BLANKETS 

Use about two tablespoonfuls of salt in the water in which you wash them, 
and a little less salt in the rinsing water. Use castile soap. 

Use galvanic soap and lukewarm water both for washing and rinsing 
blankets. Must not be rubbed. 



BUTTERMILK FOR BABIES 

When nothing seems to agree with baby, and you are actually " up a stump " 
as to nourishment, try some good fresh sweet buttermilk. It has been known 
to adjust numerous cases in which the babies began to gain in weight the first 
week. Some of them will vomit slightly at first, but will tolerate it by a little 
persistence in a day or two. 



256 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



AN OBSTINATE FOUNTAIN PEN 

When you cannot unscrew your fountain pen to refill it, wind around it one 
of those httle rubber bands in common use; this will give you something to grasp 
and, instead of shding round and round in your hands, you will find you can 
hold it firmly and be able to unscrew it. A foot or two of rough twine can be used 
in the same way. 

USES FOR VINEGAR 

The muttony taste is taken from this nutritious meat if a little vinegar is 
added to the water when boihng. 

Vinegar applied to burns will stop the smarting. 

Turnips are greatly improved in taste if a little vinegar is added when 
boihng. 

FOR SEA SICKNESS 

Place a piece of paper, no matter what kind, over the pit of the stomach 
next to the body. 

TO RID CELLAR OF FLIES 

Our cellar was full of big flies vmtil I caught a little toad and put down 
there. The httle fellow repaid me by eating every fly there, and keeping the cellar 
free from the pests. 

MOCK PUMPKIN PIES 

Those who are fond of pumpkin pies, and have no pumpkins, should try 
using carrots. Cook and prepare the same as you would pumpkin, and it is 
hard to tell which is the better. 



HOT WATER WITHOUT A RANGE 

I visited recently the home of a friend, who took dehght in showing me all 
the up-to-date wrinkles she had established in her newly purchased house. She 
took me down cellar, and pointing with pride to a thirty-gallon kitchen boiler 
attached to her furnace, told me that the house was abundantly supplied with hot 
water all winter by the heat of the furnace. Connected with the hot water 
boiler was a small gas heater, by means of which their hot water in summer was 
obtained. Their cumbersome kitchen range had been removed, and as they 
cooked entirely by gas, the problem of hot water was thus solved. She informed 
me that the cost of connecting it to the furnace was quite smaU, and its absence 
from the small kitchen was rejoiced over. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 257 

BURN POTATO PARINGS 
If you will burn all potato parings, it will keep the stove free from soot. 



TO CLEANSE THE TEETH 

To free the teeth from tartar, moisten a toothbrush and dip in magnesia. 
A few applications make a decided improvement in them. 



TO REMOVE NEEDLES 

To remove the needles that have disappeared in a pincushion, brush the 
cushion hard with a brush-broom. 



TO WASH LINEN DRESSES 

Linen dresses will not change color if a small quantity of hay is put into the 
water in which they are washed. Boil and rinse in hay-water, using but little 
soap. 

BREAD AS A DEODORIZER 

To keep the odor of onions or cabbage from penetrating the entire house, lay 
a thick slice of bread on top of the vegetables when you put them on to boil, or 
a lump of charcoal in the pot will answer the same purpose. 



"BLACK JACK" FOR A STOVE 

A good way of blackening a stove without getting any of the blacking on 
the hands whatever: Use "Black Jack" and add a little water to it every time. 
Have a very small paint brush, to stir the water in with, right in the can, 
and also to put it on the stove with, then have a larger brush with a handle on 
to polish with. These are very inexpensive and last forever. If the stove is 
slightly warm, it is much better. In this way you can be dressed up and blacken 
the stove without getting any blacking on you. 



UNFERMENTED CRANBERRY WINE 

Scald five quarts of cranberries until the skins burst. Strain through a 
fine cloth. Make a syrup of two pounds of granulated sugar, and one quart of 
water. Mix while hot, and add enough water to make four quarts. Seal tight. 
When serving, fill glasses with crushed ice and pour the Uquid into them. This 
is a nice drink as well as a tonic. 



258 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

GRAPE FRUIT WATER 

Remove the seeds from the juice, add one pound of granulated sugar to each 
pint of juice. Stir one pint of the sweetened juice into three pints of boiUng 
water, stirring until sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Set in the ice chest until 
cold. Serve with bits of broken ice, filhng glasses one-third full. 



VELVET TO POLISH STOVE 

To polish a stove use an old piece of velvet. It will give a gloss that nothing 
else will and the blacking will not burn off nearly so quickly as when poUshed 
with a woolen cloth or brush. 



TO PROLONG THE LIFE OF JELLY BAGS 

When making jeUies, after squeezing the juice out, put the jelly bags in a 
can of milk either sweet or sour; it will take the stains all out and they can be 
used repeatedly. 



A LAMP HELP 

For those who burn oil for light and have lamp chimneys to keep clean, let 
me say if they will wash them in hot suds, then dip into clean hot water and 
dry with a warm cloth — use an old gingham apron as there is less lint — they 
will find it a very easy task. 

GOOD WAY TO WASH VEGETABLES 

To remove insects, etc., from green vegetables, such as lettuce, greens, 
green beans, etc., sprinkle a generous handful of salt over them before washing. 



TO PRESERVE RAW MEAT 

To preserve raw meat for an unusual length of time, tie meat in strong 
muslin bag or cloth that has been previously wrung out of strong vinegar. Hang 
bag in the air, out of doors. 

BRASS RINGS FOR TOWELS 

Tack a piece of oilcloth on the wall near the stove to hang the holders on 
and so avoid soiling the wall-paper. 

Buy at the hardware store brass rings, three-quarters of an inch in diameter, 
at four cents a dozen, and sew them onto holders, everyday towels and dish- 
towels and you wiU find them much handier than loops or buttonholes. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 259 

TO SHARPEN SCISSORS 

To sharpen scissors hold a coarse sewing needle firmly between the thumb 
and forefinger of the left hand, and hold the scissors in the right hand and cut 
smoothly and quickly from hand to point. Unless entirely worn out they are 
Boon sharpened this way. 

TO PRESERVE JELLY 
Jellies covered with powdered sugar will not mold and will keep for years. 



TARNISHED SILVER 
If tarnished silver is laid in sour milk it will clean itself. 



TO KEEP FRUIT-JAR RUBBERS 

To keep rubbers for fruit jars from hardening, cover with flour. When 
needed, wash well and they will be "as good as new." 



SPOTS ON KID GLOVES 

To clean spots on kid gloves, make a thick paste of talcum powder and water, 
apply to spots on glove and let it stand an hour; remove with damp cloth or 
chamois skin and spots will disappear. This is especially good for white kid 
gloves. 

GRASS STAINS 

To remove grass stains from goods in which the color will "run," rub with 
fresh unsalted butter. 



HEALS CRACKED FINGERS 
Procure some Venice turpentine from the drug store, and apply as a plaster. 



SAGGING SKIRTS 

Children's Russian dresses and other styles having a goring side-seam may 
be kept from sagging when laundered, if they are doubled with the side-seams in 
the middle and pinned to the line by the hem in the middle of the front and back. 
This leaves the side-seams in the slack between the pins, and they will not sag. 



260 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



RELIEF FROM CRAMPS 

Rub a little turpentine in the hollow of the feet at bed time, once or twice 
a week. 

DOUGHNUTS MINUS GREASE 

To prevent doughnuts absorbing grease, mix three teaspoonfuls of corn- 
starch with the flour. This is in proportion to one cupful of sour milk. 



APPLYING AN EMBROIDERY RUFFLE 

Carefully run a strong double thread around the scalloped edge of ruffle; 
this will prevent the edge from sphtting when laundered. Before applying ruffle 
to garment, neatly roll and whip straight edge; this is a neat finish for the 
ruffle, besides being a time and money "saver, as the ruffle will last longer^than 
the garment and is ready to serve again on another. 



TO PREVENT KID GLOVES FROM MOLDING 

Before putting away kid gloves for the summer, line a glass jar with blotting- 
paper, place the gloves neatly inside jar and screw top on tightly. When the 
gloves are taken out in the fall, they will be in good condition — unspotted from 
the ruinous mold. 

MORE ROOM IN THE CLOTHES PRESS 

A few coat-hangers with their jackets, waists, etc., seemed to take up so 
much room in my clothes press that I purchased two nickel towel-racks and 
fastened them to the under side of the shelf lengthwise and upside down. On 
these towel-racks I hung my coat-hangers. One rack will hold several coat- 
hangers without crowding. Those for sale at the ten-cent stores are good enough 
for this purpose. 

FOR THE HAIR 

Rub the scalp with glycerine and rosewater; this treatment renews the gloss 
and increases the growth. Wash the hair and rub the scalp well with a good 
suds of borax soap or a weak solution of powdered borax, using warm water — 
not hot water. Rinse well, and when the hair is thoroughly dry rub the scalp with 
glycerine and rosewater, not putting on too much. Also put the glycerine on the 
ends of the hair. If too much glycerine is used and the hair will not curl, it can 
be easily fluffed by rubbing lightly with a little of the borax solution. Hair 
that has become slightly gray seems to renew its color. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 261 

TO CLEAN A CELLULOID COMB 

To clean a celluloid comb or celluloid toilet article, use boraxine, borax or 
borax soap. Make a stiff lather — as stiff as white of eggs for cake — and put the 
comb or other articles in the wash basin and cover with the lather. Keep covered 
for at least ten minutes, and rub with a nail brush. If not perfectly free from 
soil repeat the process. When clean rinse in warm water and dry. 



COCOA SPICE CAKE 

One cup of sugar, three scant tablespoonfuls of butter, one egg, one cup of 
lobbered milk, one level teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of cocoa, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
two scant cups of flour. Icing: Six dessertspoonfuls of coffee (left from break- 
fast), four teaspoonfuls cocoa, one tablespoonful of melted butter. Stir in con- 
fectioners' sugar until thick. Flavor with vanilla. 



TO REMOVE GREASE FROM PAINTED WALLS 

One often spoils a painted wall back of a gas range in trying to keep the grease 
off it. If the following method is tried no soap or heat is required: Take the 
cheapest vinegar you can obtain, and with a large sponge wipe over the soiled 
places. It will remove grease, smoke and dirt from walls and woodwork, making 
it look like new, and requires very Uttle labor. 



GRIDDLE CAKES WITHOUT SMOKE 

To avoid smoke in cooking griddle cakes, saturate a cloth with about a 
teaspoonful of lard, and rub the griddle with this instead of putting on fresh 
at each baking. 

TO CURL HAIR 

Olive oil, one pound; oil of organum, one dram; oil of rosemary, one and 
one-half drams. This is an excellent recipe for curling the hair. 



A LUSTROUS BLACK STOVE POLISH 

To two ounces of any good polish add one ounce of copperas and mix thor- 
oughly. Polish your range or parlor stove with this and it will not only give a 
brighter lustre than ordinary stove poUshes, but will positively not burn off. 
A range or stove polished with the above will retain a jet-black lustre from six 
to nine months without further application. Excellent for stoves not in use 
during summer or when in storage. 



262 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO CLEANSE THE LIDS OF FRUIT JARS 

Cover with sweet milk and let them stand twenty-four hours, and they 
will look Uke new if they are not too rough. 



TO MEND BROKEN DISHES 

Tie dish together with stout cord and boil for two hours in sweet skimmed 
milk. Set off and let it cool in the milk; remove string, wash the dish, and it 
will be as stout as it was before it was broken. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS 

When making boiled apple dumpUngs put them on in cold water instead 
of hot, and boil about thirty minutes, and they will not cook to pieces. 



AN EASTER DISH 

Break the small end out of as many eggs as you would like to fill, empty out 
contents, make a good cornstarch pudding of milk, eggs and cornstarch and 
divide in several portions, coloring differently with colored sugar. Fill empty 
eggshells and stand them in meal or flour to cool. When cool take off the shell 
and you will have some lovely Easter eggs that will surprise everyone. 



TO CLEAN A GRATER 

Soon as through grating lemon peel — or the like — take a dry vegetable 
brush and thoroughly brush off all the peal left on grater, and when through 
with the pie, or job in hand, the dry juice may be washed off. 



RELIEF FOR A TICKLING COUGH 

The particularly distressing cough caused by a tickle in the throat may often 
be quickly cured by gargling with hot water in which a little soda has been 
dissolved. Use this gargle every half-hour. 



TO STOP BLEEDING 

When you receive a cut and the wound is bleeding profusely, dust powdered 
charcoal on the wound and the bleeding will soon stop. This also prevents sore- 
ness. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 263 

FOR MAGAZINE LOVERS 

After selecting the magazines that you wish to bind complete, remove the 
tins from the "miscellanies" and compile the best stories and illustrated de- 
scriptive articles into volumes easily handled — sewing them together through 
and through the holes left by the tins, with small twine. 

Paste in carefully-clipped engravings to hide the "left-over" places, and 
bind in flexible covers. A clieap bookkeeping set in brown, soft gray and dull 
green or blue binding furnishes covers easily sewed on with silkaline to match 
each front cover mounted with a "study" to correspond with a plainly written 
catalogue of the best stories to be found within. The writer has a dozen such 
volumes in her library, one of which is bound in mottled brown enriched with a 
lovely sepia "Angelus," These covers will give better satisfaction than heavier 
ones. 



QUINCE HONEY 

To two quinces, peeled, cored and grated, add one and one-half pints of water; 
boil five minutes, strain and add three pounds of granulated sugar, boiling three 
minutes. Bottle or can for use. 



LOTION FOR THE HANDS 

Two tablespoonfuls of quince seed, one ounce of glycerine, one pint of water, 
six tablespoonfuls of alcohol. Put the seed in water over night on back of stove 
or where it will keep warm; strain, add glycerine, alcohol and perfume if desired. 



SIMPLE WAY TO MAKE CANDY 

In a large bowl put the white of one egg, one tablespoonful of soft butter 
and six tablespoonfuls of maple syrup. Beat all together one minute, then stir 
in confectioners' sugar until it is like dough and can be rolled on the breadboard. 
Cut in small squares and dry on plates. It is very nice. 



FOR THE CLOTHES WRINGER 

When the lower rubber of the clothes-wringer wears out as it invariably 
does before the upper one, cut the rubber off. Take heavy duck, cut the same 
width as the rubber, wet it, then turn the wringer and let it run on smoothly 
until it is the same thickness as the rubber. It will do just as good work and last 
for years. 

IF TROUBLED WITH SLEEPLESSNESS 
Try drinking a cup of hot cocoa without sugar just before retiring. 



264 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

WASH FOR A SORE MOUTH 

Golden seal or yellow root, powdered and steeped in water, cannot be 
excelled as a mouth wash. A little alum in the same is beneficial. 



MAKING GRAVY 

In making gravy always use cold water instead of hot, and it will be smooth 
and free from lumps. 

TO PREVENT SYRUP FROM SUGARING 

In making sugar syrup place the sugar in a basin and pour boiling water over 
it. Then set where it will keep very hot for a few minutes, but do not let it boil 
again. If made in this way the syrup will never turn back to sugar. 



FOR ACHING EYES 

To relieve the eyes when aching from the effects of smoke, or from lime or 
ashes getting in them, bathe with warm water to which has been added one-half 
teaspoonful of pure cider vinegar to one teacupful of water. 



OLIVE OIL FOR PRICKLY HEAT 

To those who suffer the tortures of prickly heat the use of pure olive oil 
is recommended. While it may not permanently cure, it will immediately relieve. 
It should be gently but thoroughly rubbed upon the parts affected, and it will 
bring comfortable and refreshing sleep when all else fails. 

By adding a few drops of white rose or any good toilet perfume, it is pleasant 
to use. 

By all means avoid scratching the irritated surface, particularly with the 
nails, as this is liable to induce blood-poisoning. 



PREPARING MUSH FOR FRYING 

In preparing mush for frying, put in a tablespoonful of sugar while it is 
boiling; when sliced it will brown much more quickly and the taste will be 
greatly improved. 

NEW WAY TO BAKE POTATOES 

Put potatoes in hot water for five minutes, then grease them and bake. 
They will bake as quickly as you can boil them, and will pare easily. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 265 

UNMARKED HARDWOOD FLOORS 

To prevent hardwood floors from being marked, fasten with strong glue 
pieces of thick felt the exact size of the tips of the chair legs. The felt is far less 
expensive than rubber tips and will wear much better. Rocking chairs may 
have a long narrow strip glued on the rocker. 



ECONOMIC KINDLING 
Potato parings carefully dried are excellent for starting a fire. 



TO START SEEDS QUICKLY 

To plant seeds and insure their growth, such as onions, parsnips, beets, 
carrots and salsify, take a piece of flannel or old blanket, wring the cloth out of 
boiling water, lay on a warm stove, sprinkle-'your seed on the cloth, and roll 
up and put in a warm place for twelve hours; then plant in the usual way. You 
will be surprised to see how quickly the seeds will sprout. 



EXTERMINATING ANTS 

To exterminate ants it is necessary to destroy the nest. The small red ant 
usually has its home in the wall or floor. If it is possible to locate it, a liberal 
application of carbon bisulphide will destroy the ants and larvae. If the nest 
cannot be found, the most efficient way to protect food stuffs is to stand the 
legs of tables, ice-box or safe in shallow tins of water, replenishing the water 
frequently. Poisons or odors have not proved successful in the case of ants. 
The best means of prevention is to allow no food stuffs, especially sweets, to 
remain where ants can find them, for if they once begin it is very hard to get 
rid of them. 



EPSOM SALT BATHS 

Use a heaping tablespoonf ul of Epsom salts to a pint of as hot water as can 
be borne with comfort, and apply with cloth or sponge to affected parts, and the 
result is almost magical. Even the aches of "la grippe" have to succumb to its 
soothing effect. 

TO MEND AN UMBRELLA 

When a silk umbrella begins to wear through in the fold, get one inch ribbon 
the same shade, and with rubber mending tissue, run it down the entire length of 
each width. A good silk umbrella will last several years longer if carefully 
mended in this way, and the repairs will scarcely be noticed. 



266 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

PUMPKIN PIES 

A quick method of preparing pumpkin for pies is to put the whole pumpkin 
in the oven with stem left on. When it is done the stem will fall in, the steam 
escaping thereby, and the inside will retain its flavor. If the outside should 
scorch, the inside will be unharmed. When the pumpkin is cool, the inside 
may be scraped out and used. 

TO CLEAN TINWARE 

Common soda applied to tinware with a moistened newspaper and polished 
dry with another, will make it look like new. 



TO TUCK CHIFFON 

When wishing to tuck chiffon or similar material, lay the tucks on paper 
while stitcliing; ^terward, the paper may be torn away. 



OLIVE OIL FOR BOOK SHELVES 
Perfumed olive oil sprinkled on library shelves will prevent mold on books. 



CONVENIENCE IN RIPPING 

In ripping seams I find the discarded blades of my husband's safety razor 
more convenient than a penknife. 



HOME EXPERIMENTS 

A little amusement and considerable understanding of the wonders of 
chemistry, etc., can be derived from the following experiments: 

Fire From Cold Liquids: Put a small quantity of oil of cloves or spirits of 
turpentine in a stoneware plate and drop into it a Httle Glauber's spirits of nitre, 
and it will take fire and be consumed. 

Experiments With Sympathetic Inks: Yellow — Write with one part of sal 
ammoniac and one part of sulphate of copper dissolved in water. When dry the 
letters will be invisible until the paper is heated almost to the point of discolora- 
tion, when the letters will become yellow. Yellow 2 — Write with onion juice, and 
heat as above. Brown — Write with a solution of nitrate of silver, and make visi- 
ble by heat or strong sunlight. Purple — Tar-chloride of gold dissolved in water 
gives a purple letter when read in the sunlight. Always write in a shady or 
dimly lighted room. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 267 

A NEW WAY OF IRONING 

In "doing up" dainty dresses or waists, etc., wring a clean white cloth 
as dry as possible, spread smoothly on the ironing board over the ironing sheet, 
laying the piece to be ironed on the wet cloth and using very hot irons. This 
is much more satisfactory than the old way of sprinkhng. 



TANGLED EMBROIDERY SILKS 

To keep embroidery silks from becoming tangled, cut from cardboard a 
spool sucji as darning cotton comes rolled on, cutting the skein of silk where 
it is knotted and winding on spool in one length. The numbered tag should 
be saved and pasted on end of spool so that the stock number may be seen at 
a glance, in case it is necessary to dupHcate a shade. This plan is neat and 
economical, and a short length or more may be cut off as required. 



A WHITE HOUSE DAINTY 

Cream together two cupfuls of sugar with one cupful of butter. Beat 
with four eggs. Stir in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and four cupfuls 
of flour. Beat well instead of stirring. Flavor with one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon and one-half teaspoonful of nutmeg. Bake in quick oven. 



NEW WRINKLES 

A friend, at whose table I was sitting the other day, said, as I was preparing 
my boiled egg in its glass cup, "Put in a teaspoonful of vinegar as weU as the 
pepper and salt." I did so and liked it so well, I am ready to suggest it to 
others. 

Another helpful item she gave was this : " I found I could easily settle my 
coffee by a httle sprinkhng of salt from the shaker, and I have used the method 
for a long time with good results." 



TO KEEP SALT DRY 

Instead of using cornstarch with the salt, try two or three lumps of common 
laundry starch in the salt-shakers. 



CANNED STRAWBERRIES 

After strawberries are sealed in the jar, lay it flat till cool, then shake till 
the berries are all through the syrup; they will neither rise nor settle and their 
flavor will be greatly improved. 



268 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO SET COLORS AND LOOSEN DIRT 

To each gallon of warm water use a tablespoonful of turpentine. Colored 
madras draperies may be cleaned very successfully in this way. 



FOR CRAMPS 

Tie a bandage very tightly around the leg, just above the knee; breathe 
forcibly, taking long respirations, thus exciting the action of the lungs. 



TO CLEAN A STRAINER 

If soap is used on a fine wire strainer, it can be more easily cleaned than 
by using sand. Fill the meshes full by rubbing with a piece of soap, then wash 
out with hot water; the wire will be as clean and bright as new. 



TO COOK CABBAGE 

Chop cabbage very fine; boil in just enough water to cover it; when tender 
drain as dry as possible, add rich milk or cream, butter, salt and pepper. This 
is deUcious and quite equal to young asparagus. 



TO STAMP EMBROIDERY 

Embroidery patterns may be reversed by laying on a window-pane and 
tracing on the back of the pattern with a heavy pencil; if patterns are heavily 
lined, they may be transferred to the material in the same manner. A good 
way to stamp when one has no stamping powder. 



A DAINTY BOOKLET 

For an invalid or friend make the book by folding a paper napkin in fourths; 
trim the edges to required size, tie the back with baby ribbon bow to match 
the flower design ; then paste in favorite clippings of poetry or prose, bits of 
wit or wisdom, at various angles, with possibly a child face or flower peeping 
out cheerily between. More leaves can be added inside if desired. 



UNIQUE GARRET CURTAINS 

If you have no curtains for your garret windows, whitewash the upper 
half of the window lights, and from the outside it will look like a neat white 
curtain covering half of the window. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 269 

EASY WAY TO CAN BEANS 

Prepare beans (fresh from the vines) as you would for cooking. It is better 
to cut them in inch lengths as they go into cans more readily. For five pints 
of beans thus prepared, one small teacupful of salt and sufficient water to cook. 
Boil ten minutes and seal. When ready to use, drain off the liquor, cover with 
cold water, bring slowly to scalding, drain and add cream or milk. 



TO CLEAN OIL PAINTINGS 
Cut a raw potato in half and rub over painting. This will make it like new. 



BACON AND APPLES 

Fill baking dish with pared and sliced apples, sugar to taste, cover with 
slices of bacon and bake one-half hour. 



A KNITTING HELP 

When knitting or crocheting with delicate colors, to keep the ball from 
getting soiled, seal it up in a large envelope, having an opening at one comer 
just large enough for the thread to pass through freely. 



TO PROTECT MIRRORS FROM FLIES 
Wash with a cloth saturated in a solution of Epsom salts dissolved in beer. 



TO DRAW ON GLASS, ETC. 

Color dissolved white soap with water colors, boil until it will cool hard 
and mould into crayons. Use to decorate or advertise on shop windows, 
mirrors, etc. 



TO KEEP A BROOM IN GOOD CONDITION 

If brooms are wetted in boiling suds once a week they will become very 
tough, will not cut the carpet, will last much longer, and always sweep like new. 



EGGS EASILY SHELLED 

If the shell and skin of a boiled egg cling when peeling, hold under water 
and they will sUp off easily. 



270 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

DUTCH TEN MINUTE PUDDING 

To a pint of milk add three well-beaten eggs and a pinch of salt. Thor- 
oughly soak slices of stale baker's bread, and fry in butter to a golden brown. 
Serve with any sweet sauce. 

BROILED SWEET POTATOES 

Peel cold boiled sweet potatoes,, and slice lengthwise into two or more 

Earts according to size. Dip in melted butter, and broil to a Ught brown on 
oth sides. Serve with salt and melted butter. 



A NEW USE FOR SHOE HORNS 

Many people accustomed to the use of the sUpper spoon for slippers, etc., 
have no idea what a help it may be in managing refractory rubbers. A good 
hint for the hurried mother or teacher who has so many httle feet to dress for 
rainy days. 

TO HELP THE INVALID 

Should you have in your home an invahd to whom the noise of emptying 
coal from the scuttle into the stove is a positive misery, do up coal into bundles, 
wrapping in paper bags or old papers, quietly deposit coal and paper. The 
paper burns away leaving your coal in the stove, with no noise to rasp the tender 
nerves of the sick one. 



TO SWALLOW PILLS 

Simply place the tablet or pill under the tongue and quickly take a large 
swallow of water, and the medicine will go down with the water involuntarily 



TOO LIGHT BREAD 

If loaves of bread are a little too light and in danger of running over, cut 
strips of heavy brown paper three or four inches wide, grease one side and pin 
around the loaf, being careful that it does not touch the side of the oven. 



MUSTARD IN BEANS 

If a generous pinch of mustard is added to beans when baked, they are 
more easily digested. Two or three tablespoonfuls of rich milk or cream poured 
over a pan of beans a half hour before they are done, improves the flavor and 
gives a nice brown crust on top. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 271 

A NEW WAY TO ROAST BEEF 

Put your beef in the roasting pan and scald well on all sides with plenty 
of boiling water. Let stand fifteen or twenty minutes and keep turning so that 
no juices escape. Then pour off all the water but a very little, put the cover on 
pan, put in oven and bake. When done, sprinkle with salt. You never will 
have a tough roast if it is prepared in this manner. 



A LASTING COMPLEXION 

Make a good soap suds with pure castile soap, and as hot a water as can be 
borne, rub the face vigorously with the suds, then take common table salt and 
rub all over the face and neck; next take clear hot water and wash off all soap 
and salt, then dash cold water over face and neck. 



EGG PANCAKES 

To one and one-half cupf uls of flour take two eggs, yolks and whites separate, 
stir the yolks in with the flour and enough water to make a batter, as for common 
battercakes; add about one teaspoonful of salt, then beat whites of the eggs 
very stiff and add to the batter; fry in lard middling quick — this will make 
about six cakes, very light and fluffy. Serve with sugar. 



FOR APPLE PIES 

To make pies of hard, sweet apples, just make them the usual way, but 
before putting on the top crust, dissolve a half teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
in one teaspoonful of water and drop it over the apples and sugar. They will 
cook up juicy and tender. 

USE FOR BOTTLES 

When a glass is wanted to cover over flower slips, take a beer bottle, tie 
a cord saturated in coal-oil around it where the bottle slopes to the neck, set 
the cord on fire and let it burn, then break off top, and you will have a useful 
glass not easily broken. 

A NEW WAY TO COOK BEANS 

Cover beans with cold water, let come to boiling point and turn off water; 
repeat; again cover with cold water, add a pinch of soda, boil ten minutes and 
turn off water. Cover with cold water, add salt to suit taste, boil until well 
done and quite dry. Add pepper, butter and cream or milk and serve while 
hot. 



272 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO POLISH NICKEL 

Take ashes from black or white oak, apply to nickel with damp cloth, 
rubbing off with a dry one. 

OLD STOCKINGS 

The legs of old black stockings stitched together into any desired size are 
excellent for cleaning kitchen ranges, sinks and oilcloths. 



PUMPKIN CUSTARD 

Prepare and season pumpkin the same as for pies; place in a bowl without 
a pie crust, and bake same as a custard. 



CORDIAL JELLIES 

To any of the jelly preparations now on sale, add a gill of any sweet liqueur 
cordial, such as Curacoa, creme de rose, parfait amour, anisette, Chartreuse, 
Benedictine, etc. Stir with a silver spoon, set in mould and ice until needed. 
Some of these preparations are of use to people who refuse food when sick. 



PARFAIT AU CAFE 

Infuse six ounces of roasted unground coffee in a pint of hot sugar syrup 
for a quarter of an hour. Add the yolks of four eggs, stirring briskly until 
the mixture thickens. Strain into a dish, set in ice and stir until cool. Add 
a pinch of cream beaten to a froth, put into a mould and set in ice for two hours. 



CRACKERS 

Rub six ounces of butter into two pounds of sifted flour, dissolve one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus in a third of a tumbler of milk and strain it on the flour. 
Add a teaspoonful of salt and milk to roll the dough out. Beat the dough with 
the rolling pin for half an hour; roll out thin; cut out with a tumbler and bake 
in a quick oven until crisp and hard. 



PURE BAKING POWDER 

Mix thoroughly with a fine sieve, twenty teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar 
and ten of carbonate of soda. Keep in a clean, dry Mason jar tightly closed, 
and use one teaspoonful of the powder to a quart of flour. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 273 

DEODORIZERS 

To deodorize a room or shop otherwise clean, burn brown sugar, ground 
coflfee or cotton rags on a fire shovel. A pail of water set in a newly painted 
room will remove the smell. A flat dish of water, with ice in it if possible, wiU 
condense the smoke of cigars and save one's curtains and carpets from the sickly 
odor. Vinegar boiled with camphor and sprinkled over a room is very re- 
freshing. 

FRIED FRESH WATER FISH 

Cleanse and scale well, wipe dry with a clean cloth, slightly score the sides 
of small fish and cut large ones in pieces if necessary; dip in beaten egg or cold 
milk, roll in flour or cracker crumbs, and fry brown in sufficient boiling lard or 
oil to float the fish. Serve with tomato sauce. 



ENGLISH BACON 

Instead of scalding the hog, burn off the bristles with straw, wash and 
rub smooth with cold water and dress. When thoroughly cold remove the 
spare ribs and other bones from the sides, and cover with eight parts of fine 
salt, two parts of brown sugar and one part of saltpeter. Lay the sides (flitches) 
on each other and turn over the piles daily, resalting as before, for three weeks. 
Dry and if preferred, slightly smoke. 



BARLEY WATER 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley in a little warm water for half 
an hour, then stir into two cupfuls of salted boiling water; simmer an hour 
in a double boiler, or stir frequently to prevent scalding. Sweeten to taste. 
A good substitute for milk in infantile diarrhoea. 



OLD-FASHIONED BROWN BREAD 

Take equal parts of new sweet com meal and rye meal sifted and salted, 
and mix with scalding hot water to a soft dough. Bake in a hot oven until the 
crust is half an inch thick and brown. The soft, moist interior is excellent with 
meat or cheese. 



BARLEY SCONES 

Mix fresh barley meal with warm water and a little salt to a stiff dough; 
bake in flat thin cakes and serve while warax with butter. A delicious and 
healthy bread. 



274 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

HARD BISCUIT 

Rub four tablespoonfuls of butter into two-thirds of a quart of old flour 
with one-half teaspoonful of salt. Wet with sweet milk until a dough is formed 
and roll this repeatedly, sprinkling it with flour until an entire quart has been 
used. Cut into shapes half an inch thick, prick with a fork and bake in a quick 
oven. 



APPLE, PEACH OR APRICOT FRITTERS 

Make a batter of half a pound of fine flour, salt, cold water and the yolks 
of three eggs. Dip the fruit in the batter and fry like doughnuts in plenty of 
boiUng lard. Drain, sprinkle with sugar and serve. 



RICH FRUITY LEMON SAUCE 

Put in a saucepan the yolks of four eggs, four ounces of sugar, an ounce 
of fine flour, the juice of two and grated rind of one lemon. Add a pint of boiling 
milk. Boil until it thickens. Remove and beat until cold. 



TO STOP BLEEDING 

When a person is bleeding from a cut or punctured woimd in any limb, 
apply pressure at once with both hands, pressing the thumbs on or into the 
wounds. Twist a handkerchief or cravat into a loose rope and make a hard 
knot in the middle, tying both ends together around the Umb and placing the 
knot near the wound and between it and the body if the blood comes in jets, 
showing that an artery is injured. If the blood flows steadily from the veins, 
put the knot between the wound and the foot or hand. Use a short stick to 
twist this ligature until the knot bears so nearly on the veins as to stop the bleed- 
ing. By encircling the stick and limbs with another handkerchief or a sus- 
pender, the whole may be kept in place until a doctor is available. Bleeding 
from a small cut may generally be stopped by the use of powdered alum, sugar 
or nut galls and ice or even cold water are powerful styptics. 

For bleeding of the throat or lungs, lie in bed with the head raised; take 
alum (in twenty grain doses for an adult) once in two hours. A mustard plaster 
on the chest is often prescribed. Use ice cold drinks and a light diet. 

When bleeding from the stomach, lie on the back, drink small draughts 
of iced water or lemonade. If the vomiting is severe, give two teaspoonfuls of 
vinegar and one of Epsom salts in a wine glass of ice. water every half hour until 
it stops. 

Bleeding from the nose is unpleasant, but seldom dangerous, and is some- 
times beneficial. It is generally easily stopped by applying ice, ice water, 
cold keys, etc., to the back of the neck, throwing back the head and raising the 
arms as high as possible. A little alum dissolved in water, snuffed up the nostril 
or syringed, may be used. A roll of paper an inch long and as thick as a lead 
pencil crowded between the upper lip and gum is often effective. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 275 

BOILED TONGUE 

Simmer for two hours in just water enough to cover the tongue. Remove 
and peel it and return to the water, adding a half teaspoonful each of whole 
peppers, mace and cloves, tied up in a small bag. Some add turnips, carrots 
and rich beef gravy, with fine herbs, so that the tongue may be eaten hot with 
the vegetables and the liquor in which it is cooked thickened with browned 
flour. This is economical and dehcious. Otherwise let the tongue cool in its 
liquor and serve cold. 



GINGER BEER FOR HARVEST 

To one gallon warm water, add two ounces of ground ginger, one pint of 
molasses or two pounds of brown sugar, and half a pint of good yeast or one- 
half a yeast cake dissolved. Put in strong jugs, shake up well, and let it stand 
over night. Then cork and cool for use in the field. 



BRUISES 

When first received they generally yield quickly to compresses wet with water 
as hot as can be borne, frequently renewed. One part of tincture of arnica to 
six of the water used will relieve pain. If very painful and lasting, a bread and 
milk poultice or cold lotions may be useful. Pieces of raw beefsteak, or brown 
paper soaked in vinegar, are time-honored remedies for a black eye. When 
very severe, cold water bandages and proper support forms the "first aid" 
prior to sending for the doptor. If on the head, and the patient is unconscious, 
incline the head slightly backward, let him inhale salts of ammonia, or strong 
cologne, bathe with cold water, and apply hot water bandages to the wrists 
and ankles. Perfect quiet should be maintained for a day or two at least after 
head injuries of this nature. 



BURNS AND SCALDS 

When these are of small extent, and painful, little anxiety need be felt, 
but when large in area the best medical attendance should be sought at once. 
Bandage of old hnen or cotton over a dressing of either lime water and linseed 
oil; castor oil; powdered chalk and lard; soap softened to a very thick lather; 
hot water and milk with a httie baking soda, or scraped raw potato. What- 
ever is used, keep the parts from the air and wet them afresh through the original 
bandage if possible. If the pain is great, laudanum may be ^\iven at intervals 
of an hour, not to exceed thirty drops in a little water, for an adult, and three 
drops for a child of ten years or over. 

For strong acid burns on the skin, apply lime water, chalk and water, or 
weak soda water; for quicklime, potash or caustic ammonia, use weak acids. 
For lime in the eye, wash out with lemon juice or vinegar and water. 



276 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

SUFFOCATION 

Many people die every year from inhaling carbonic acid gas in close rooms, 
cabins of vessels, etc., especially in very cold weather when everyone tries to 
save fuel and keep warm. When a patient is found insensible, remove him at 
once to the open air, dash cold water on the head and chest and induce artificial 
respiration if breathing ceases. When he becomes conscious, hot coffee, warm 
wine or brandy and water should be given him. Don't give up trying for hours. 
I have seen two cases saved after being insensible over twelve hours. 



CUTS 



Every family in the country should keep on hand sterilized cotton, old 
linen, iodoform and cotton bandages, one or more soft sponges, needles, thread 
and adhesive plaster (diachylon) ready for the not uncommon cuts sustained 
in country life. Where no artery is severed the venous bleeding will usually 
be stopped as before directed (see Bleeding), and if a clean cut, the edges should 
be brought together by pressure and secured with strips of the plaster, say two 
to three inches long and half an inch wide. Apply the plaster warm, the nearer 
end of the strip some distance from the cut. Carry it across and fasten firmly 
enough to hold the edges together. Fasten them parallel and near together 
until the wound is well closed. Place raw lint or sterilized cotton over the cut, 
or, what is better, sprinkle it freely with iodoform and secure with bandages. 
If you have to remove the strips take each by both ends and loosen by lifting 
toward the wound. If a needle, knife or scissors are used to cleanse or trim 
the wound pass through the flame of a candle or taper before using. If possible 
the water used should be mixed with a little carbolic acid. 

Cuts on the head, if small, should have the hair cut or shorn off near the 
wound and a fold or two of wet linen kept in place by a bandage. 



LIGHTNING PAPER 

Take strips of thin imsized paper, eight by three inches, and immerse them 
without touching each other, in a glass or glazed dish containing four parts of 
sulphuric and five parts of strong fuming nitric acid, mixed by stirring with a glass 
rod or long clay pipe-stem. Be careful not to get the acid on your clothes or 
skin. After lying in the acid bath for ten minutes take up the sheets separately 
with your glass rods and lay in a dish of soft warm water, or under the flow of a 
faucet for an hour or so. Take the strips out and you have a form of gun cotton, 
or pyroxlene. Crumple one of these into a loose pellet, light one corner, toss it 
into the air, and it will almost instantly disappear in a bright flash. Or give 
someone a slip to light a cigar or one candle from another, and note the result. 

The slips will burn with a colored flame if dipped for five minutes in the 
following saturated solutions: 

Red chlorate of strontium; green chlorate of barium; blue chlorate of copper. 

These may be bought or made by mixing equal quantities of a saturated 
solution of the chloride of strontium, barium, or copper and chlorate of potassium. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 277 

PYROTECHNICS 

The display of fireworks at suitable times, gives perhaps as general pleasure 
as any other form of public amusement. Rockets, Roman candles, shells, 
Saxon wheels, and the like can be bought to better advantage than they can be 
made by amateurs, but a few hints as to their effective use may be of interest. 

The place of exhibition should be ample, both for safety and the accommo- 
dation of sight-seers, but a background of forests, beautiful gardens or stately 
buildings add greatly to the effect. If a pond, river, or narrow bay lies between 
the audience and the display, its beauty will be doubled by the reflection. 

Rockets should always be shot from troughs or tubes large enough to give 
them way, and set at an angle of about eighty degrees, and pointing away from 
the audience. 

Roman candles, say eight-starred, colored, bought by the gross, are the 
most effective and cheapest of all. Use them a dozen at a time set in tin cans 
on cases, as batteries or mines of stars. You will have ninety-six colored stars 
and a mass of flame equal to two so-called batteries. These mounted on a cart 
may be used safely in a pohtical torch-hght procession. 

Colored fires, torches and Bengal hghts are splendid to illuminate processions, 
grounds, vessels, shore lines, and romantic and savage landscapes. It is only 
necessary to see that the hot scoria is received in sand or ashes, and the light 
is kept up evenly to the close. These may be easily and cheaply made at home 
as follows: 

Bengal Lights: Make cases about four inches long by one and three-quarter 
inches in diameter, out of paper strips nine or ten inches long by four inches wide. 
Use a wooden form, paste the paper only at the first turn and end, and dry 
thoroughly. To fill the cases have a loosely fitting wooden rammer ; over its end 
place a small square of paper a little larger than the case and push it to the 
bottom, in tliis ram tightly dry 'powdered clay, to the depth of an inch or more. 
Fill with the composition chosen, putting in only a tablespoonful or so at a time, 
and driving down the rammer with a few blows of a light mallet. Cover with a 
circle of paper pasted down over the edges. The composition used must be made 
of dry, pulverized ingredients, thoroughly mixed by passing four or five times 
through a sieve of brass mesh or muslin. It is best to send to some wholesale 
chemist for the ingredients, and when received to store them in dry glass jars or 
large-mouthed pickle bottles thoroughly stoppered. 

BriUiant Bengal Fires: Nitre, six ounces; sulphur, three ounces; realgar, 
one ounce, or nitre, four ounces; sulphur, two ounces; orpiment, one ounce, or 
nitre, 12 ounces; sulphur, four ounces; black antimony, one ounce, or nitre, 
eight ounces; sulphur, four ounces; black sulphide antimony, two ounces. 

Chertier's White Fire: Nitre, eight ounces; sulphur, two ounces; regulus 
of antimony, three ounces; red lead, two and one-half ounces. 

Special White Fire for Large Landscapes: Nitre, twelve ounces; sulphur, 
three ounces; regulus of antimony, two ounces; red lead, one and one-half 
ounces; orpiment, one- half ounce; realgar, one-half ounce; metallic arsenic, 
one-quarter ounce; shellac, one-quarter ounce. 

Golden Yellow Fire: Barium nitrate, five ounces; sodium oxylate, one 
ounce; potassium chlorate, one and one-half ounces; powdered shellac, one 
ounce; pure sulphur, one ounce. 



278 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

Brilliant Red Fire: Strontium nitrate, ten ounces; potassium chlorate, 
three ounces; sulphur, two ounces; powdered shellac, one ounce; powdered 
charcoal, one-quarter ounce. 

Rich Crimson Fire: Strontium nitrate, sixteen ounces; potassium chlorate, 
six oimces; pure sulphur, four ounces; sulphide of copper, tlu-ee ounces; chloride 
of mercury, two ounces; fine shellac, one ounce; lampblack, one ounce. 

Pale Illuminating Green Fire: Barium nitrate, eight ounces; potassium 
chlorate, three ounces; pure (washed) sulphur, one and one-half ounces; pow- 
dered shellac, one- half ounce; powdered charcoal, one-quarter ounce. 

BrilHant Green: Barium nitrate, twelve ounces; potassium chlorate, three 
ounces; pure sulphur, two ounces; powdered shellac, one ounce; chloride 
mercury, one ounce; powdered charcoal, one-half ounce. 

Rich Green: Barium nitrate, sixteen ounces; potassium chlorate, five 
ounces; pure sulphur, three ounces; barium chlorate, two ounces; chloride 
mercury, two ounces; powdered shellac, one ounce; powdered charcoal, one- 
half ounce. 

Bengal Lights: In firing Bengal hghts the cases should be hung or laid 
upon the side so that the scoria can fall out, and give the colored flame full egress. 
For illumination they are the most effective and cheapest lights known. 

Campaign Colored Torches: May be made of any of the above fires by 
taking round turned wooden handles and adding a paper case for the illuminat- 
ing fires. Two or three thin layers lightly pasted at the first turn and on the 
outside are enough. Put in a httle dry clay rammed hard and fill as for Bengal 
lights. Strawboard rolls, such as are used for maiUng pictures, may be used 
for handles, but are too thick for cases. The larger cases four by one and three- 
quarter inches if properly filled ought to burn ten to fifteen minutes. 

Salutes: Chlorate of potash and powdered sulphur are very dangerous 
to mix, unless the sulphur is "washed sulphur" and free of acid. Even then no 
mortar or mill must be used in mixing them, and the sieve must be used a 
number of times to secure an intimate mixture. Still it may be used quite 
safely to fire heavy salutes if used as follows: Procure a heavy iron weight and 
suspend by a block and tackle from, a beam and above a very thick flat stone 
or sheet of boiler iron. Mix equal parts of chlorate of potassium, pure sulphur, 
and sharp sand intimately. Spread a tablespoonf ul thinly on the iron, and drop 
the weight upon it from a height of four or five feet. The report is very heavy. 

The safest way t^^ use large cannon crackers is to fire them from the muzzle 
of an old cannon or from a mock cannon made by turning a hardwood gun and 
giving it an open muzzle by driving in a piece of new boiler tube. Shrunk on 
while hot. This will increase the noise and make it safe to fire. If one of these 
crackers fail to explode, lay or toss another beside it and both will explode. 

There is nothing more beautiful than illuminated boats on a dark night, 
and a small lake, whose margin is fit up by Bengal hghts and bonfires, on which 
a number of boats decorated with lanterns, and burning colored fires move in 
unison is more effective than the most costly "set pieces" in a city enclosure. 
Small boats are easily prepared for decoration by setting hardwood "dowel 
rods " along each side secured to the gunwale by a strong screw-eye, and braced 
and connected by soft iron wire. On this frame, about four feet above the gun- 
wale, lanterns and other decorations may be hung, and the occupants may 
dress and mask themselves "en carnival." 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 279 

Almost equally effective work may be done by having a skating carnival in 
winter, with a central bonfire or colored fire beacon, and skaters carrying torches 
and wearing bright as colors as possible. 



JAPANESE PARLOR FIREWORKS 

Cover one-half of wooden toothpicks with a mixture of twenty-six parts 
of gunpowder, eleven parts of pure sulphur and five parts of lampblack. Wet 
with enough gum arable mucilage to make a thick paste. The powder should 
be crushed in a mortar to a fine dust, or "mealed" as it is termed. If they 
are to be used at once a few iron filings may be added. When lit a small ball of 
hot scoria will form, giving out a cloud of handsome sparks. 



CEMENTS 

Alabaster: White beeswax, one part; rosin, one part; powdered ala- 
baster, three-quarter part. Melt the wax and rosin together. Stir in the ala- 
baster dust. Cover with warm water and knead the mass thoroughly. The 
pieces to be mended must be clean and dry. Melt just enough cement to join 
them together, bind them tightly and leave for a week. 

Cheese for Coarse China: Pound some fresh cheese to a dough and knead 
it under warm water until only a powder is visible, strain and dry. Mix this 
powder with half as much powdered quicklime and wet it up with white of egg. 
Apply at once, as it dries very quickly, and throw the rest of the mixture away. 

China Cement: Take a very thick solution of gum arable and stir into it 
enough plaster of paris to make a thick paste. Apply to the broken china, and 
fasten in place. Let stand three days and it will never break in the same place. 

Iron Cement: Beat the whites of eggs to a froth; add finely powdered 
quicklime to make a thin paste and thicken well with iron filings. Use to mend 
cracks in ironware, stoves, etc. 

Japanese Cement: Mix rice-flour with water to a smooth paste and boil it 
gently for twenty minutes. Add a drop or two of oil of cloves. Very strong, 
transparent and smooth for light work, as lanterns, toys, etc. 



BEDBUGS 

In certain localities the neatest housewife in an ill-built house may find it 
infected. If so, it should be repainted, papered, whitewashed, etc., until the 
innumerable crevices are thoroughly stopped. Then take a warm day, put out 
all fires, and saturate the walls, floors, and beds with gasoline. Then go out- 
doors and let it evaporate. Two "field days" like this will cure the most des- 
perate conditions. For ordinary cases, use the gasoline from a big atomizer on 
the bedsteads, mattresses, etc., and let evaporate with the same precautions. 
Or use this: Alcohol, one-half pint; spirits of turpentine, one-half pint; sal 
ammoniac, one ounce; corrosive sublimate, one ounce; camphor, one ounce. 
Apply freely with a syringe or sponge. 



280 LITTLE HELPS FO R HOME-MAKERS 

TO SAVE TREES FROM MICE OR RABBITS 

Every fall tack stout brown paper around the base of the tree, and cover 
the paper with a mixture of tar and tallow. Or apply a strong solution of red 
pepper with a little starch to the bark of the tree. 



HOME-MADE COLOGNE 

To each pint of pure alcohol add a teaspoonful each of oil of bergamot, oil 
of lavender, oil of lemon and orange-flower water. Cork the bottle tightly and 
allow to mix thoroughly for several days, shaking the bottle from time to time. 



TO COOL BEVERAGES WITHOUT ICE 

Place in a metal can or glass bottle, cover with several thicknesses of wet 
cloth and shade from the sun, but keep in a current of air if possible. The 
cloths should be wet from time to time as the water evaporates. If a Uttle 
saltpeter is dissolved in the water the degree of cold produced will be much 
greater. And a charge of gunpowder sprinkled on the neck of a bottle placed in 
water has long been used in hot countries. Intense cold can be produced by 
chemicals. Take one pound of muriate of ammonia and two pounds of nitrate of 
potash to form mixture No. 1, to be kept in closely stoppered bottles. 

In other bottles keep three pounds of powdered sal soda, for No. 2. 

To use take equal measures of each and cold water, and use as a freezing 
mixture. The mixture will register three degrees below zero. 



RAIN WATER CISTERN 

When water is scarce or poor, every farmer should have a rainwater cistern 
midway between his house and barn, and made large enough to hold all the rain 
shed by his buildings. Such buildings with an area of say 2,200 square feet 
will gather in a year of about the lightest rainfall known (say fifteen inches) 
about 20,000 gallons of first-class drinking water. A cistern eight feet in diameter 
and twelve feet deep would hold this amount, and be equal to the average amount 
on hand in a year of double the humidity. Such a cistern should be built of 
concrete or a strong foimdation of stone covered with concrete to a depth of 
several inches. 

Where the soil is clay the shape of the cistern can be cut out of the soil, 
building up the inside wall a foot thick of one part of the best cement to three 
parts of broken stone and two parts of sand, and keeping it in place by wooden 
forms. The top may be of stout planking, with an ample hatch to enter and 
clean if necessary. A wall of porous brick should shut off about one-third part 
of the cistern into which the water is received and filtered through the brick 
into the larger part. If the cement lining proves porous, give it a coating of 
hot clean tallow. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 281 

TO CURE A CAT OF FITS 
Cut off the very tip of the tail. This is the only sure remedy. 



LIMED EGGS 

Preserve only strictly fresh eggs. If the shell is cracked it cannot keep long. 
Take one-half pint unslacked lime, and one-half pint of salt to two gallons of 
water, dissolve in boihng hot water. Pack the eggs carefully in a stoneware, 
glass or wooden receptacle; turn in the mixture when cold, and cover closely. 
Keep in a cool place. The eggs should be good for five months. 



TO FRESHEN SALT BUTTER 

If your butter is too salt, add a quart of new milk for each poimd of butter, 
and work it over in the churn or if a small quantity is needed with a paddle or 
large spoon, for at least an hour. Work out the milk, and resalt to taste. Smaller 
quantities may be worked over in several waters, and thus freshened. 



TO BURN LIME 

A very good article of lime can be burnt by anyone who can get broken 
limestone, or plenty of seashells. The stone can be roughly built into the shape 
of a pyramid, leaving a rude furnace and door at the base, and a chimney flue 
through the center, cover with sods and earth as for charcoal and start your fire 
in the center. After it is burning well the draft may be partially closed. Shells 
must be piled on a large amount of fuel and covered in Uke manner with soda and 
earth. 



BONE MANURE 

Save all the bones procurable, and pack in a hogshead or large tight barrel, 
in alternate layers between hardwood ashes. When full keep wet with urine, 
or soft water. Peat soil will do instead of wood ashes if strong sulphuric acid 
is mixed with the water. When the bones are dissolved, the best chemical 
fertilizers cannot excel this mixture. 



OAT AND WHEAT STRAW FORAGE 

Oat straw cut while the grain is in the "dough" and not hardened is as 
good as most hay, and wheat straw is good forage. Either cut short, wet down 
and mixed with shorts, wheat bran or Indian meal, will keep a horse or cow in 
good condition. 



282 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

DECOCTIONS 

In using herbs, roots, barks, leaves, etc., at home, a decoction should be 
made of one ounce to the pint of boihng water in a covered vessel. The boiling 
should not be long continued, and the dose should be from one to four oimces, 
according to the strength of the sample used. 



DRINKS FOR THE SICK 

Barley Water: Take two ounces of pearl barley to two quarts of water, 
and boil until soft, strain and mix it with lemon juice, or red or black currant 
jelly to taste. 

Rice Gruel: Six gills of boiling water to each large spoonful of vmground 
rice; flavor with a stick of cinnamon or mace. Strain when boiled soft. Add 
half a pint of milk, salt to taste and stew a few moments longer. 

Water Gruel: Two tablespoonfuls of Indian meal and one of wheat flour, 
rubbed to a paste with cold water. If wanted thick, add to a pint of boiling 
water and boil a few minutes; if thin adc more water. 

Caudle: To rice gruel made as above, add half a wine glassful of ale, wine 
or brandy. Sweeten with sugar and flavor with nutmeg. 

Wine Whey: Stir into a pint of boihng new milk a couple of glasses of 
sweet wine. Let it boil a moment, take it from the fire and let the curd settle. 
Strain off the whey and sweeten and flavor to taste. 

Egg Wine: Beat together a fresh egg, a wine glass of water and another of 
Tarragona port, sherry, tokay or other wine (not claret). Sweeten to taste, 
and drink when well-beaten. 

Egg Milk: To one egg well-beaten add two-tlurds of a tumbler of fresh 
cold or hot (not boiling) milk, any flavor (coffee, tea, lemon, raspberry, vanilla, 
etc.) and shake well together, adding nutmeg to taste. 

Lemonade: Wipe your lemons clean, and rub over them enough loaf 
sugar to take up the natural oil. Express the juice on the sugar, and add about 
a pint of boihng water to the juice and flavor of three lemons. This concen- 
trated lemonade may be reduced in strength to taste. The peel of the lemon 
sliced off very thinly may be steeped if the loaf sugar method is not used. 

Tamarind Water: To a large spoonful of tamarind, add a cupful of boihng 
water. Cool, strain and sweeten to taste. Black currant jelly, or jam can be 
used in the same way, and are often taken hot for cold, or sore throat. 

Beef Tea: To each pound of lean beef cut small, take one and a half pints 
of cold water, and bring to a boil in a clean sauce-pan, add a pinch of salt, skim 
it well, cover and let it simmer gently for two or three hours. Strain into a 
stoneware dish, set away to cool, and when cold skim off every particle of fat. It 
should be made the day before it is used, and put as much warmed up in a cup 
for the invalid as is wanted. 

Calf Foot Jelly: Boil one calf's foot in two pints and a half of water, imtil 
reduced to one-half pint. Strain, cool, remove all the fat, and add a quarter of 
a pint of milk or wine, the thin rind of one lemon, some nutmeg or cinnamon 
and sugar to taste. Boil together for five minutes, strain thoroughly and cool. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 283 



TO DRIVE AWAY RATS 

Fill their holes and run-ways as fast as discovered with chloride of lime or 
concentrated lye. Their feet get sore and they will seek other quarters. 



TO PACK RIPE FRUITS 

Do up in paper bags or parcels and pack in dry bran. If paraflBne paper is 
used, choice grapes can be kept well into the winter. 



RESIN CERATE 

Resin, five ounces; lard, eight ounces; yellow wax, two ounces. Melt 
together with a gentle heat, and stir until cool. Known as Basdicon ointment and 
used to gently stimulate blistered surfaces, indolent ulcers, burns, scalds and 
chilblains. 



ESSENCES 

Essences of lemon, anise, peppermint, sassafras, etc., should be composed 
of one ounce of the essential oil to one pint of alcohol. As medicines the usual 
dose is ten drops of the essence to a teaspoonf ul of sweetened water. 



INFUSIONS 

Infusions should be made by pouring boiling water on the substance used, 
and letting it stand until cool. If a stronger infusion be desired the vessel 
usually kept covered may stand near the fire or in hot water, but the infusion 
must not be allowed to boil. 



CAMPHOR LINIMENT 

For sprains, neuralgia, rheumatism, etc., dissolve six drams of camphor in 
one fluid ounce of chloroform, and add one ounce of olive oil. 



CAMPHORATED SOAP (OPODELDOC) LINIMENT 

To three ounces of sliced white soap, add an oimce of camphor; one fluid 
dram each of oil of rosemary and oil of origanum and a pint of alcohol. Melt 
the soap in the alcohol using gentle heat, when the soap is dissolved, add the 
camphor," and oils, and when they are dissolved pour into wide-mouthed vials. 

An anodyne liniment for sprains, bruises, painful bunions, etc. 



284 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO REMOVE GREASE STAINS 

Soak light fabrics in alcohol, rub as thoroughly as possible, and rinse in 
lukewarm water. 



COMPOUND WINE OF GOLDEN SEAL 

Take one dram each of bruised golden seal root, tulip tree bark, and bitte^ 
root, half a dram of bruised cayenne pepper, and two quarts of sherry or Tarra- 
gona wine. Let the mixture stand for two weeks, shaking the jug occasionally, 
then express the liquor, strain and bottle. 

A pleasant bitter tonic in dyspepsia, etc. Dose from one to two fluid 
ounces three times a day. 



CANKER 

Thoroughly mix ten drops of creosote with two ounces of gum arable mucilage 
sweetened with loaf sugar. Dose one teaspoonful from two to four times a 
day, to be held a few moments in the mouth and then swallowed. This has cured 
many cases which had resisted all other remedies, as it attacks the disease at 
its center in the stomach. 



FOR BURNS 

Mix equal quantities of lime water and linseed oil, apply this on cotton 
(antiseptic if possible) to scalds and burns. This is the best and most available 
remedy in accidents by fire or explosion where large surfaces are affected. 



TO REMOVE BLOOD STAINS 

Soak over night and rub or pound in cold water, using some first-class wash- 
ing soda in the latter operations. Rinse out in lukewarm water, and wash in 
the usual way. 

TO REMOVE MILDEW 

To one and a half pounds of good washing soda take one pound of chloride 
of lime. Dissolve the washing soda in four quarts of water. Mix the chloride 
of lime slowly with a quart of cold water or so much of it as will make a smooth, 
creamy paste. Add enough cold water to make up the six quarts and mix the 
two solutions, stirring until thoroughly mixed. Let the mixture stand at least 
six hours or overnight. Skim off any scum and you will have a pure bleaching 
liquid. Take one quart of this bleach to five gallons of water, and work in 
washer or allow the goods to soak, stirring them from time to time until the 
mildew has disappeared. Use " Wyandotte " washing powder instead of ordinary 
washing soda for this bleach if procurable. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 285 

TO REMOVE PAINT 

If wet rub with benzine. If dried, soften with vaseline, then rub with ben- 
zine. Costly silks are best soaked in benzine. Always use benzine by daylight, 
and, if possible, when there is neither lamplight, gaslight or fire. 



TO REMOVE INK STAINS 

Dissolve ten grains of oxalic acid in one-quarter pint of water. Keep in 
well-stoppered bottle, marked Poison. Soak the stained article in hot water. 
Apply the oxalic acid sohition to the ink stains, until they disappear, then rinse 
thoroughly. 

Another way (used in laundries) is to cut the ink with chloroform and 
wash out with strong ammonia. Cover the cloth and press with a hot iron. 



TO REMOVE OIL STAINS 

Mix thoroughly three ounces spirits of turpentine and one ounce essence of 
lemon. Scour the stained spots. This will thoroughly remove grease or oil 
spots. 

TO REMOVE COPYING INK STAINS 

Make a strong solution of chloride of lime in cold water, and apply to the 
stain. Follow it at once with a solution of oxalic acid in cold water. No time 
must be lost between the two applications. First dip in the chloride of hme 
solution, and then in the oxalic acid solution, and rinse in lukewarm water. 



TO REMOVE IRON RUST 

It is very difficult to remove iron rust stains from some colored goods, as 
chemical changes take place combining the oxide of iron with the mineral colors 
employed. Get from your druggist an ounce of hydrochloric acid dissolved in 
three ounces of water, moisten the stains with this mixture until they disappear, 
rinse in lukewarm water. 

Or apply oxalic acid solution with the finger, lay the article in the sun for a 
few hours, then rinse, or rub with salt of lemon or Javelle water and wash thor- 
oughly. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

To the grated pulp of one large ripe pineapple, add the juice and grated peel 
of one lemon, a pint of sugar, and a quart of water. Freeze with or without 
straining. 



286 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TANKS, CONTENTS OF 

Multiply length, width and depth together. If the result is in feet, multi- 
ply by the liquid contents of one cubic foot, viz, seven and one-half gallons. 

If the tank is round square the diameter and multiply the result by 0.7854, 
and then again by the depth. If the dimensions include inches reduce all the 
dimensions to inches before multiplying, and divide the final result by 1728 
(cubic inches in a gallon). An ordinary whiskey or cider barrel should hold 
4.21 cubic feet, or 3U gallons. 



RAINFALL ON ACRE 

Taking the weight of a barrel of water at 200 pounds for 31^ gallons, it will 
be found that the weight of a one-inch rainfall on an acre of land is between 
90 and 100 tons. It is difficult to realize the immense force and effect of the 
forces which continually pump up fresh water from the salt tropical seas, carry 
it through the atmosphere and distribute it over the whole world. 



CREAM CAKES, PUFFS AND POPOVERS 

Mix in an open sauce-pan, one cup of boiling water; one-half cup of butter, 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. While still boiHng stir in one and three-quarter 
cups of fine flour. Beat well for four or five minutes until well mixed, and 
when cool, break five eggs into a bowl (but do not beat them) and add one-half 
of them to the cool mixture, beating them thoroughly together, then add the 
rest of the eggs, and beat this batter one-half an hour. Salt to taste. 

When very light, drop the batter, about a tablespoonful at a time, on a 
greased tin or pan, about two inches apart, and bake half an hour in a rather 
hot oven, and allow to cool. 

Fill the hollow cake with wliipped cream, sweetened and flavored, or the fol- 
lowing filling: One and one-half cups of milk, thickened with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, two eggs, two-thirds cup of sugar, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt. Cook 
in a double boiler for fifteen minutes, stirring thoroughly. When cold flavor 
with vanilla, lemon, almond, coffee, chocolate, etc., and use a paper cone, con- 
fectioner's syringe funnel or small teaspoon to fill the cases. When whipped 
cream is used it may be mixed with raspberry, strawberry or pineapple in thick 
syrup, nuts, etc. 

Eclairs are baked in the same way except that the cases are larger and 
narrower. And besides being covered with white or chocolate, the filling is 
generally richer and flavored like the frosting. Some celebrated confectioners 
make the cases little more than an inch in width, but very rich and delicious, 
and others turn out great cakes filled with a thin tasteless paste. Better small 
flavorsome dainties and fewer of them. 

"Popovers" used as puddings are the same cases cooked in cups or gem 
pans, and served with sweet sauces. All the above are nutritious and easily 
digested. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 287 

THE FAMILY HERBALIST 

Some of these simple remedies are undoubtedly found in every State of the 
Union, and many are still in use, where the doctor is far away, and it is miles to a 
dispensary. All of the following preparations are indorsed by the best authori- 
ties as well as by many local and lay practitioners of the healing art.. 

Carrot: Both the seeds and the root are good in kidney trouble, as strangury 
and painful and sparse micturition. Use the seeds in infusion or decoction. Carrot 
root poultices are antiseptic, soothing and deodorize offensive discharges of the 
ear and eye. 

Turnip: The root of the yellow turnip makes a good healing poultice. 
That of the white flat turnip may be boiled soft and mashed to express the juice 
which should be made into a thick syrup for coughs and colds. 

Onion: The heart of a roasted onion is often a cure for severe earache. 
The juice of an onion boiled or raw, with syrup is good for a cough. 

Water Melon: Boil down the expressed juice to a thick syrup for coughs 
and colds or table use. Crush and boil the seeds to a jelly, to reUeve urinary 
difficulties. 

Pumpkin: Eat the seeds or boil them to a jelly for kidney troubles. 

Cress (Land or Water) : Should be eaten freely as a salad by those afflicted 
with jaundice, liver and lung troubles. Some wonderful cures of consumption 
have been claimed for this diet. Crush into a poultice for scald head and other 
scalp eruptions of infancy. 

Strawberry Leaves: Make a strong infusion with hot water in a covered 
vessel, and drink several times a day to promote perspiration and action of the 
bladder and kidneys. It is also useful for sore throat, chronic coughs, etc. 

Sorrel (Garden) : Pick, clean and crush the little fleshy leaves and use instead 
of lime or lemon juice for cool drinks. 

Sage: The tea promotes perspiration, and with a little alum makes a good 
gargle for sore throat, canker, etc. 

Blackberry Root: A strong infusion of the root is an excellent remedy for 
diarrhoea and dysentery. The ripe fruit eaten with sugar and bread and butter 
often reheves the terrible dysenteries of army life. The fruit juice boiled with 
sugar and mixed with one-fourth its volume of good rum or brandy, is a famous 
cordial for similar troubles. 

Raspberry: A strong infusion of the leaves is also astringent and tonic, 
and excellent for the bowel troubles of children. The fruit syrup, sweet or 
mingled with white wine vinegar, makes a favorite beverage with cold water. 

Quince: The seeds boiled with hot water produce a thick demulcent, excel- 
lent for inflamed throats or the stomach and bowels in dysentery. Made thin 
and perfumed, it is an excellent fixatif for the hair. 

Spearmint: A tea of the leaves allays vomiting and wind and pain in the 
stomach and bowels. 

Peppermint: The tea helps nausea, griping and wind. The essential oil 
brushed hghtly over the face often relieves neuralgia. 



288 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

Parsley: The leaves, roots and seeds are all of service in kidney and dropsical 
complaints when eaten freely with bread and butter. A salad of the finely 
chopped leaves will be found beneficial, or an infusion may be made from the 
dried or fresh plant. It is also good in fever and ague. 

Lettuce: Eat freely to allay cough, nervousness and insomnia. 

Horse Radish: An infusion of the root promotes all the secretions, and 
when strong is a powerful emetic. Made into a syrup with twice the quantity 
of sugar it often cures chronic hoarseness. The grated root in vinegar as eaten 
at table can be spread on linen and used as a counter-irritant instead of mustard. 

Figs and Dates: These dried fruits are healing to irritated stomach and 
bowels, and mildly cathartic. Eaten every morning with a few walnuts they 
will often remove the bad breath and " dark brown taste " that tell of an over- 
worked stomach. A fig poultice, made soft and spread on old linen, is one of the 
most grateful and healing known to medicine. 

Prunes: Long soaked to restore their plumpness, gently stewed and not 
over-sweetened, have few superiors as a gentle and natural laxative. Their 
syrup boiled down, and blended with liquorice and cubebs makes a cough remedy. 



PURE ICE CREAM 

One quart of new sweet cream; one cup of sugar; vanilla, lemon, or other 
flavors to taste, freeze. 

For strawberry cream, add to above one quart of ripe sweet strawberries, 
and a pint of sugar thoroughly mashed and beaten together, rub through a 
strainer and freeze. 



FRUIT ICES 

One pint of sugar to three pints of fresh fruits, and one quart of water, 
thoroughly beaten together. Strain and freeze. 

When the fruit is not strained out and the ice is only partially frozen so that 
the chilled laerries are eaten almost whole, the ice is called a "granate" or "gran- 
ite" ice. 



FOR BURNS 



Moisten Epsom salts with just warm water, enough to dissolve thoroughly, 
add an equal volume of pure glycerine and bottle for use. Soak cotton in the 
liquid and cover the burn, bandage lightly, so as to keep out the air, moisten 
the cotton from time to time, and the burn will get well in a remarkably short 
time. Essence of peppermint appUed to slight burns give almost immediate 
relief. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 289 

COMMON SIMPLES 

Sassafras: The root-bark and green leaves boiled together make a demul- 
cent, aromatic and carminative jelly, useful in colds, bronchitis, pneumonia 
and measles, as good or better than those made with flax seed or gum arable. 

Dogwood: The inner bark gathered in the fall or spring, makes a bitter 
infusion, which is a good substitute for quinine in low fevers and typhoid 
dysentery. 

Thoroughwort or Boneset: An infusion of the leaves drank while hot during 
the chilly stages of fevers, or when cold as a tonic and preventative of ague 
attacks, was largely used in the Confederate armies during the Civil War. 

Willow or Tulip Tree Barks: Bitters and tea from these have been exten- 
sively used for want of quinine. 

Pennyroyal: Tea is carminative, antispasmodic and effective against colds, 
coughs, colics, spasms and female complaints. 

Oak Barks: Red, white or black, are very astringent and somewhat tonic. 
They tend to check agues, clironic diarrhoea, dysentery and cholera infantum. 
They stop bleeding at the nose and mouth, and if used as a gargle will thicken 
the lining membrane of the nose and lessen the tendency to chronic nosebleed. 

Nutmeg: The tea will relieve nausea, .vomiting and diarrhoea, or the nut 
may be eaten moderately. Patients of an apopletic or paralytic tendency must 
not use it. 

Plaintain: Bruise the leaves into a mass and apply to bites and stings of 
insects, inflamed sores and swellings. 

Cinnamon Bark: Make a mucilage of the ground bark with hot water, 
sweeten and give freely in diarrhoea and dysenteries. For horses, cattle or 
fowls, give it in a mash or on wet grain. An infusion of the bark is good but 
lacks the demulcent quaUty. 

White Pine Bark: The infusion is good in coughs, colds, bronchitis, rheu- 
matism and kidney troubles. 

Persimmon: The bark and unripe fruit make very astringent infusions 
of proven efficiency in ague and bowel diseases. They are also of use as a gargle 
for sore throat, canker, etc. 

Sumach: The bark and young twigs are very astringent. The ripe berries 
infused in hot water make a pleasant acidulated drink for fevers. 

Buckeye: Horse chestnut roots when powdered and macerated in warm 
water give a soapy, cleansing suds of especial value in renovating fine cotton, 
woolen and silk fabrics, and a very effective shampoo. The nut kernel contains 
a very large proportion of starch which will not turn yellow and its flour made 
into paste is of special value to book-binders as worms will never attack it. 
Ten grains of the powdered rind of the nut is equal to three grains of opiimi and 
may be used to induce sleep, and a strong decoction is recommended for gan- 
grenous ulcers. A strong infusion of the roots held in the mouth will cure tooth- 
ache. 

Creeping Cucumber: The seeds of this vine are a powerful purgative. Half 
of one is a dose for an adult, and three or four for a horse or hog. 



290 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

Snake Root: For croup, boil one ounce in one and one-half pints of water 
until the infusion is reduced to a pint. Dose one tablespoonful every quarter 
hour until relieved. Also good for asthma of old people, chronic catarrh, etc. 

Magnolia: The leaves steeped in hot water or brandy are good for colds, 
bronchitis, etc. A tincture of the fresh seeds and root-bark in brandy has a 
reputation for curing rheumatism. A hot infusion of the root bark is a gentle 
laxative and sudorific, and when cold is a good tonic. 

Dill: An infusion of the seeds of this herb are like anise, good for flatulent 
colics. 

Wild Indigo: The root in infusion is an active emetic and purgative. It is 
also of use as a wash or gargle for ulcers, canker, nursing sore mouths, etc. 

Irish Moss: This common sea moss is fully equal in value to the Iceland 
Moss, long used by druggists. Made into an emulsion or jelly with water, it 
may be sweetened with sugar or honey, flavored with lemon juice, and used in 
colds, catarrhs, bronchitis, etc. With milk, sugar and spices or wine it makes 
a delicate jelly for the supper or sick table. If taken from the shore it should 
be washed clean, dried and blanched in the sun before using. It is sold as Sea 
Moss Farine. 

New Jersey Tea: The leaves were used largely by the patriotic women of 
the revolution as a substitute for tea. Two drachms of the powdered root in 
a pint of hot water, covered closely until cool, are good for canker, nursing sore 
mouths and fever patients. 

Mullein: A tea of the velvety leaves of this weed has long been held useful 
for coughs, bronchitis, etc., and in chronic diarrhoea and dysentery. When 
infants are wasting away with such disorders and cannot retain food , it is claimed 
that mullein tea with milk, given in spoonful doses, has turned the scale from 
certain death to life. 

Marsh Rosemary: A tea made of the root is powerfully astringent and 
beneficial in diarrhoea, dysentery, etc. As a wash or gargle it is good for canker, 
sore throat and ulcers. 

Sweet Gum Tree: The inner bark or leaf boiled in milk or water is very 
astringent and used for diarrhoea, etc. The gum with sugar or honey is used 
for coughs and colds. 

Golden Seal: An infusion of the yellow root dyes cotton and other fibres 
yellow, and when followed by indigo, green. It is a tonic bitter, and a good 
eye wash, for wenk eyes, opthalmia, etc. 

Pond Lily (white or yellow): The astringent infusion of the root is useful 
in diarrhoea, etc., for gargles, antiseptic washes, etc. The fresh roots pounded 
to a pulp make a very coohng and grateful poultice for sores or ulcers. 

Hops: An infusion is used as a tonic. The hot, wet flowers applied in bags, 
often relieve neuralgia, rheumatism, toothache, insomnia, etc. 

Hawkweed: An infusion of the root is a mild astringent and expectorant 
in chronic catarrh, bronchitis, spitting blood, etc. It is claimed also that a 
strong decoction is a sure cure for rattlesnake bite, and experiments made at 
Philadelphia some years ago tend to justify it, as the man who made the test al- 
owed snakes to bite him which had previously and afterwards killed small animals. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 291 

Sweet Fern: A tea made of the leaves is astringent and helpful in diarrhceal 
troubles, and as a wash or gargle for sore throat, canker, ulcers, etc. 

Flowery Elder: Macerate the powdered inner bark and flowers, if in season, 
in clarified mutton tallow, cocoanut oil or the like, until it is colored a light 
green, and has a fresh pleasant smell. The ointment will be found very grateful 
and heaUng to any eruption or sore. 

Red Clover: The tea and fomentation from red clover blossoms have always 
been considered useful for all diseases of the blood and skin, and especially for 
cancers, old sores, etc. 

Wild Cherry: An infusion of one ounce of the bark to a pint of hot water 
in doses of a large wineglassful, is recommended to cure asthma, bronchitis, 
consumption, etc. The gum exuded in wet weather, dissolved in hot water, 
strained and made into a syrup is also commended. 



FREEZING ICES 

It is much easier to shave or cut ice than to crush it, and it pays to buy 
one of those three-pointed hand shavers with which it is mere play to fill a tub 
with fragments of ice. Take a sharp hatchet, put your ice in a tub and chop 
off the ice from top to bottom about an inch thick, or get a rude mallet armed 
with half a dozen sharp points. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Take the juice of five lemons, and the grated outer peel of one, a pint of sugar 
and one quart of water. Freeze. 



A WEDGEWOOD MORTAR 

The Wedgewood mortar and pestle should be found in every pantry, and 
will be found a great aid in mixing all foods which must become a smooth and 
homogeneous cream or paste. The Stoneware pestle not only mixes but grinds, 
dry or wet mixtures, and is as indispensable in the home laboratory as the 
chemists. With a good sized mortar and several brass wire sieves, the house- 
wife will not only be able to reduce much material to necessary fineness, but 
will eliminate more foreign substance and imperfect material, tea and coffee 
dust, etc., than she ever dreamed of in her philosophy. 



CEDAR OIL 

A tight box, trunk or closet, paneled thoroughly with oil of cedar, and 
allowed to dry for several days will be found as effectually moth proof as if lined 
with the best cedar. 



292 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

POTATO CREAM CANDY 

Made without cooking. One medium size mashed cold potato, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, one pound pulverized sugar, and one cupful of nuts. Stir 
this to a cream, then put in buttered plate and cut in squares. 



BAKED MILK 

Put two quarts of milk into an earthen jar tightly sealed with writing- 
paper tied down. Let it stand in a moderate oven for eight or ten hours. It 
will then be as thick as cream and very appetizmg and nourishing. 



USES OF OLIVE OIL 

Thirty years ago few Americans would use oHve oil as a food in any shape. 
Today it is very largely used, and is prized for its nutritious and healing quali- 
ties. It should be taken regularly by those who wish to regain nerve force 
and lost flesh and will be easily taken if used with soft boiled eggs instead of 
butter, say about a teaspoonful of oil to each egg, or with baked beans, soups, 
or cereal foods when eaten with cream. 



CLARIFIED FAT 

Save all fats and fatty scraps from all kinds of food except the fat of mutton, 
smoked meats, fish or turkey. Reduce to small pieces, cover with cold water, 
and boil until only a httle water is left. Strain and press all the fat from the 
scraps. If any sediment remains, wash in one or more cold waters imtil only 
the clear fat remains; melt and heat in a vessel in which a raw potato cut in 
thin slices is allowed to brown very slowly. When this is effective, strain the 
fat and use it instead of lard for any purpose. 



FOR WRINKLES 

Add to 10 ounces of rosewater, 4 ounces of glycerine and 2 ounces of taurim; 
or if a small quantity be required half or quarter the above proportions. Apply 
several times a day with a camel's hair brush, and aid its action by a httle facial 
massage at such application. 

WINE WHEY 

Stir two wine-glassfuls of port, sherry or any good wine. Boil into one 
pint of boiling milk a moment longer until the curd forms, take out the curd 
and sweeten the whey. This is not only nourishing and digestible, but is of 
value in its effect on the kidneys. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 293 

SANDWICHES 

Club: — Hash finely slices of cold breast of chicken, partridge or turkey, 
and lay on alternate layers of lettuce, sliced tomato and crisp sweet bacon, with 
mayonnaise, and between two slices of buttered toast. 

Smoked Sardine: — Chop fine a box of Norwegian smoked sardines with 
the pulp of half a lemon, and spread the fish on buttered light biscuit or toast. 

Egg and Minced Ham: — Scrambled egg with minced ham or egg make 
fine sandwiches. 



CREAM TOASTS 

Plain Toast: — Toast stale baker's bread slowly until crisp and brown. 
Serve with milk, thickened with about one tablespoonful of flour and an ounce 
of butter to the pint of milk. 

Beefsteak Hash Cream Toast: — Stir into the cream above made, about 
one half a pound of finely hashed cold beef, and bring to a boil. Pour the hash 
cream in a dish and arrange the toast on top. 

Turkey or chicken mashed finely may be used as above. 

Curried Egg Cream Toast: — Add to the cream currie to taste and hard- 
boiled eggs cut in rings. 

Raspberry Cream Toast: — Spread raspberry jam between thin slices of 
toast, and serve with cream as above. 

Quince Toast: — Core ripe quinces and place in a pan, filling the centre 
with sugar, and flavoring with cinnamon. Bake until tender, and serve in 
sUces of buttered toast with very sweet whipped cream. 

Mushroom Toast: — Brush and peel mushroom caps, cut in dice sufficient 
to fill two cups; then cook in two tablespoonfuls butter five minutes. To one- 
half a teaspoonful of chopped shallot, add one tablespoonful of butter and cook, 
stirring constantly, three minutes. Bring one quart can of tomatoes to the 
boiling point; simmer twenty minutes, then rub through a sieve; there should 
be one cupful of tomato puree. Add puree to shallot, and season with salt and 
pepper. Put mushrooms on the toast, and pour over the tomato puree. 

Creamed Spinach on Toast: — Cleanse thoroughly and boil half a peck 
of spinach in a very httle salted water for half an hour. Drain, cut in pieces 
with a sharp knife, put in a hot pan with two ounces of butter, set on back of 
stove until the butter melts, add half a teacupful of cream, a small spoonful of 
sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; arrange some buttered slices of toast on a 
large dish, and spread the spinach thickly over each slice. Serve half a hard 
boiled egg or some scrambled egg on each piece. 

Honey Toast: — Beat an egg and add to a cupful and a half of sweet milk, 
or half cream and half milk, with a pinch of salt and two tablespoonfuls of liquid 
honey. Beat smooth, dip slices of stale bread and brown quickly on the griddle. 
Serve with plenty of honey. 



294 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

FOR NAUSEA 
Stir into a glass of ice water the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. 



FLY POISONS 

Bicarbonate of potash, one dram, dissolved in two ounces of water. Sweeten 
with sugar or syrup, and place in a shallow dish and, if possible, where a ray of 
sunlight strikes it early every morning. 

2d : Black cobalt, one dram to two ounces of sweetened water, used as above. 

3d: Dissolve ^ dram of formaldehyde in two ounces of sweetened water, 
anJ use as above. 



HAIR TONIC 

For a dry scalp and thinning hair, take 1 fluid ounce tinctxire of red cinchona 
bark; 2 drams tincture nux vomica; ^ dram tincture cantharides; 1| ounce 
cologne, and one ounce cocoanut oil. Rub in well twice a day at least. A 
still stronger tonic consists of 2 drams tincture of capsicum; 1 ounce ammonia 
water; 5 grains hydro-chlorate pilocarpin, and 3 ounces of cologne; mix. 



ORANGE ICE 

To one quart of water add the juice of six oranges, one tablespoonful of 
good gelatine, one pint sugar, and the whites of three eggs. Soak the gelatine 
in one-fourth the water for five minutes; boil the remainder of the water and 
add the gelatine, sugar and strained juice, and when very cold add the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. Freeze in the usual manner. 



HAIR TONIC FOR DRY HAIR 

Mix resorcin, 3 drams; fluid extract of pilocarpin, 3 drams; tincture of can- 
tharides, 4 drams; glycerine, 4 drams; spirits of lavender (com.), 4 drams; also 
castor-oil, 1 dram, and bay rum, 1 pint. 

Add the castor-oil to the bay rum and shake thoroughly. Afterward add 
the other ingredients. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Mix the juice of three lemons, two oranges, sliced, one grated pineapple 
and one cupful of sugar. Let stand for one hour to extract the juice, then 
press and strain into your punch bowl. Add to the juice two quarts of iced 
water and two slices of pineapple shredded, with or without claret, Rhine wine 
or Chianti. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 295 

PRIVATE THEATRICALS, ETC. 

There is no more useful amusement when properly conducted than society 
and home entertainment furnished by local talent and bringing out abilities 
and sentiments otherwise dormant. The choice of plays should be worthy and 
not too ambitious. Simple dialogues, grave and gay, many old comedies, easily 
procured in pamphlet form, the still popular "Baker Parlor Dramas," and 
scenes easily adapted from Shakespeare, the Bible, Don Quixote, and modern 
novels will be more likely to succeed than more pretentious efforts. 

The first thing to do is to choose a manager whose decrees in certain matters 
must be final. He or she may and probably will make mistakes but something 
will be done and done more effectively, than if everybody is to claim this or 
that, and do as they please regardless of general results. The play or plays 
once chosen, the manager should assign the parts and have them read and 
criticised in accordance with the fitness and abilities of the actors and actresses 
for them. If any one fails to put vim and character into the reading or is bash- 
ful, they should be gently criticised and encouraged to forget self and lose them- 
selves in the character they are attempting to portray. This is the main thing 
to be kept in view, and the manager should liim.seLf thoroughly study the play 
and the times, customs, events, fashions, dress, etc., etc., of which it is a picture. 
He should impress on every character, that every part is necessary to tlie finished 
design, that it requires as great a genius to picture the fool, dandy, slave, serv- 
ant, etc., as the hero, heroine, or royalty itself, and that a failure to put life into 
these subordinate parts will damage and possibly spoil the rendition of the 
whole play. 

Every character should have the full play, or at least his part, typewritten, 
showing the last words said upon the stage which are his "cues" for appearing 
or doing or saying something. They should be the first things to be committed 
to memory and with them the action of the play at those points, and the reason 
why the actor appears, acts or speaks at those particular times. Particularly 
in the matter of "cues," the participants must continue to study until every 
one thoroughly understands their importance. 

By the time this is done, the parts should have become "letter perfect" 
and rehearsals should be frequent and thorough. It will be necessary to re- 
press the ardor and action of some, and to encourage character and force of 
voice and action in others, until a very fair rendition of what the author had in 
mind can be given. 

Costumes: In many cases modem garments only need be used and, of 
course, costumes of any kind or period can be ordered of firms in the nearest 
cities. Still much can be done at home with simple and cheap material. Scrip- 
tural characters were usually clad in simple garments such as are frequently 
illustrated in encyclopedias, dictionaries, commentaries and the like, or in armor 
with sandals on their feet, with their limbs apparently bare or covered only 
with greaves or other protection. A helmet is easily made out of any derby 
or straw hat with the brim cut into a narrow vizor in front and turned down 
and rounded to cover the back and sides of the head. A few stitches will keep 
everything in shape and some silver or gold paper, plain or put on in overlapping 
scales or diamonds, will make a fair basinet. Photographic paste, made by 
the receipt given, will give clean, smooth, lasting work. 



296 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

Cheap flesh-colored undervs^ear, doubly sewn at the seams so as to fit tightly 
at wrists and ankles, are good substitutes for tights; and a Grecian, Roman or 
Saxon scale armored shirt can be easily made on a gaily dyed loose short-sleeved 
undershirt with scalloped bands of silver or gold paper overlapping like shingles 
and fastened with photographer's paste. Greaves, shields, breastplates, etc., 
can easily be made of stout pasteboard and metaUic paper. Spears, swords, 
battle axes, halberds, antique guns, pistols, etc., are closely imitated in tin or 
wood covered with silver tin foil and colored paper and will last a long time if 
properly cared for. 

Grecian and Roman dresses are especially effective and should be studied 
from the engravings. Two sheets or table cloths joined together at the top 
for six inches or so from the end, then left open for eighteen inches and again 
closed, then left well open in the center for the head to pass through, stitched 
together the whole length of the sides, and left open at the bottom, can be 
gathered into the most graceful and artistic draperies for antique female char- 
acters. With gold ornaments, belt, etc., a white costume is very effective. 

Wigs are easily made of curled hair, unraveled Manila rope or jute switches 
sewn upon black or white skull-caps of mosquito netting. Small purchases of 
colored tinsel, gold paper, etc., will enable the ingenious to manufacture crowns, 
tiaras, jewels and belts, insignia, etc., which the foot-lights will light up with 
wonderful effect. Old garrets and trunks will often furnish things that can be 
used effectively on the mimic stage. 

The Stage: In a private house which has potieres or folding doors there 
is need of little scenery. Folding doors make a fairly good substitute for cur- 
tains. Otherwise curtains fastened with rings to a wire and cords so arranged 
that the cm-tains can be opened and closed from the sides are the best for home 
use. There should be a back screen made in two sections having a frame of 
light wood braced at the corners covered tightly with cotton which is afterwards 
thoroughly wet with paste and covered with blue or green paper for out-of-door 
scenery. The wall will hold these up if further secured to ring screws in the 
door or window casings. From four to six "side scenes," 7x3 feet, made in the 
same way should set be at the sides wnth a slight slant toward the rear of the 
stage to shut off the view of the sides of the room. Three or four "flies" of 
blue cambric should cross the stage to cover the tops of the side scenes, and shut 
out the ceiUng from the view of the spectators. 

Any kind of a rug or carpet, preferably green, of course, or even coarse 
wrapping or building paper can be used to cover the floor. Very handsome 
prosceniums or stage fronts can be made on slender frames covered with cloth 
by using panel work of wall papers, gold or silver paint, etc. 

Weather Properties: To make Ughtning, get a small tube and a few cents' 
worth of lycopodium. The operator dips one end of the tube into the lyco- 
podium and blows the small quantity taken up into the flame of a candle and 
away from the stage. A sudden glare lights up the gloom and is followed by 
the "thunder" which is made by another assistant who is holding and shaking 
a sheet of Russia iron. A little practice with this will give any kind of a "thunder- 
clap" from a gentle rumble to a tremendous roar. To imitate rain, make a long, 
narrow box, eighteen inches long by three or four inches through, closed at 
both ends and traversed by butchers' hardwood skewers set about one inch 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 297 



apart and breaking joints, as it were; a few handfuls of dried peas in this box 
allowed to fall quietly from one skewer to the other imitates a gentle shower. 
If shaken violently, a dash of heavy rain, hail, etc. A sudden crash to imitate 
an accident or great damage to a building or other material, is initiated by 
dropping a bag loosely filled with broken china and glass. 

The home fireside can be easily imitated by setting up a red hearth-frame 
or simple mantel-shelf projecting from the rear screen with an old-fashioned 
brick fire place made of red paper marked off with black, and furnished with 
old handirons and logs previously charred and dotted with bits of crimson 
tinsel to imitate embers. A dish of unslaked lime hidden by the wood and wet 
with water will create a very natural smoke and if a candle is placed so as to 
light this up, it will look very natural indeed. An old-fashioned grate with a 
fire is m.ade of crimson paper barred with black containing the slacking Hme 
and candle. 

When a fire is supposed to break out, the tube used for lightning is turned 
upon the stage and the burning lycopodium is allowed to follow the edge of 
the side scenes and a number of tubes should then be used. The flame is harm- 
less against anything but the most inflammable stuff, but should not be used 
where any of the lady actors are wearing muslin dresses. 

In Schools, Halls, Vestries, etc.: Prosceniums should be oblong, about 
sixteen to twenty feet long according to the length of the stage, leaving room 
for dressing rooms and for operating the properties, etc., at each end. The 
side frames should be at least nine feet high, and the top frame the full length 
possible, and the same width. Both should be strongly but lightly framed, 
covered with cloth and painted or papered, so as to have a bright and lively 
effect. Wall papers and borders will give light effect with dark, rich paneling 
at a very low cost. A Uttle gold paper in strips or pasted over moldings will 
give an elegant finish. 

Strong, upright timber fastened securely to the front of the stage and the 
floor should be used to seciu-e the proscenium sides and top, and this should 
be braced by scantlings from either end to the wall at sufficient height to hold 
the curtain drop curtain, side scenes, etc., etc. The curtains, side scenes, etc. 
may be made and used as before but should be larger to suit the greater stage. 
Several interiors can be made by using different wall papers and borders as 
parlor, chamber, kitchen or cellar and dungeon scenes. Very pretty arbor, 
garden plots, etc., can be made by cutting out the beautiful vines and flowers 
now decorating modern wall papers and the woods will often furnish wonderful 
ferns, dead trees, mosses, etc., which will for a night or two beat the best painted 
scenery. The curtains covering the dressing rooms and wings, should be of thick 
dark stuff fastened to strong, tightly-dawn wires. The old-fashioned army 
blanket made an almost perfect side curtain. 

Tableaux: These are very effective and taking, and should be used as 
often as possible. A loose curtain of black muslin or mosquito netting hung 
back of the drop curtain and rolled on a fight pole should be lowered before a 
tableau is shown. It lessens |the sharpness of the outlines and blends them 
like a painter's brush into what the French aptly style "tableaux vivants" 
(living pictures). Ordinary foot fights are not strong enough for these and 
red or green fire should be used. Very effective and nice colored fires are now 



298 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



put up in little packages with the fuse which readily lights them. These are 
the best, but if you can not get them, make your own red and green fire as 
follows : — 

Red Fire: i lb. nitrate of strontia; ^ lb. pulverized confectionery sugar; 
^ lb. pulverized chlorate of potash. 

Have these very fine and dry and mix with a sieve. If not red enough, 
add more nitrate of strontia; if it burns too slowly, add more chlorate of potash. 

Green Fire: J lb. nitrate of baryta; i lb. pulverized sugar; ^ lb. chlorate 
of potash. 

These fires will light at once, if a glass rod or a piece of pipe-stem dipped 
in sulphuric acid touches them. Burn in a tin pan with an inch of sand or 
loam in the bottom. 

Tableaux Concerts: A concert of popular or old songs rendered by a choir, 
quartette, or soloist, and illustrated by suitable tableaux is easy to organize 
and always popular. The verse may be sung and the tableaux shown during 
the chorus or at the beginning and end of the song. Local militiamen, firemen, 
sailors, mechanics and members of fraternal societies may be used to great 
advantage at such concerts. The foot lights are now best furnished by a row 
of incandescent bulbs with a tin reflector behind each one to throw its light on 
the stage. Ordinary low kerosene lamps with reflectors can also be used to 
good effect. 

Shadow Pictures: A great deal of amusement can be made by placing a 
white screen across the stage and throwing the silhouette of the actors upon 
it by means of a single electric bulb, lamp or candle. An easy way to use this 
is to set up an unglazed window-frame close to the screen upon something opaque 
enough to darken the screen below it, and show the ^lictures of one or more 
characters through the shadow-window. 

A man shaving himself; a "painless dentist" pulling teeth; a couple court- 
ing; a domestic quarrel; a greedy diner; can all be shown with many more. 
When the lamp or candle flame is about breast high, the figures are of normal 
proportion; when lowered they become gigantic; when raised they become 
dwarfed. The figures must alwaj^s stay in profile and articles used can be cut 
out of card board and shown the same way. If an actor steps over a light 
from the rear, he seems to leap down from the sky upon the stage; if he steps 
over it and back again, he seems to break through the ceiling and come down 
again. Comic recitations, rhymes from Mother Goose, sung or recited, old 
negro melodies, new ragtime songs can all be used to good effect. 

Negro Minstrel Performances: The success of these performances depends 
chiefly upon the originality and spirit of the performers, and also upon their 
use of costumes. Perhaps the most successful costumes are those which ap- 
peared to be in the worst state of dilapidation or which have been mended with 
prodigious patches of various colors. Much may be done, however, by using 
the natural gifts of the performers. For instance, whistling when the performer 
is really a musician and can whistle variations to the playing of a piano or some 
other instrument seems to be always acceptable to an audience. Performances 
on the Jewsharp, banjo, xylophone, guitar, mandolin, trombone, ocarina, bugle, 
drum (if of imusual merit) and other instruments are always a variation and 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 299 

if well performed "take." The songs, "walk arounds" and negro comedies 
used in the past are almost all easily procured from the music or theatrical 
dealers. 

A few wigs may be bought, and especially what is called a trick wig, which 
when properly manipulated, demonstrates that the darkev wearing it is fright- 
ened out of his life; although the average negro wig can be easily made out of 
black or gray curled hair. A little grease paint and especially the bright red 
needed to color the hps and cold cream to anoint face and hands before ap- 
plying the "essence of black cork" are also necessary. The essence of black 
cork is easily made by piling clean bottle corks on a fire-shovel or earthenware 
tiling and pouring over them a little alcohol and burning them until black clear 
through. The fire must be extinguished and the charcoal mixed with water or 
vaseline to a thick paste. If rubbed on dry, it is apt both to fall off and to get 
into the pores and take considerable washing to remove. 

A dozen young people from neighboring farms or the members of a country 
village by these simple means can meet around at each other's houses for the 
winter and have a good time and learn much in the way of effective speech, 
self-confidence, graceful movement and a wider comprehension. In a small 
town, school or church society greater things can be done and if moderate ad- 
mission fees are charged, some money can be made for charity or greater im- 
Erovements. These hints will be found to be of practical experience and em- 
ody about all that the average performing country troupe uses in its business 
performances. 

A few suggestions will be found elsewhere for the details of pubUc and local 
celebrations, etc. They have all been personally proven in many places, as 
have the suggestions for camping out and camp cookery. 

EdUor. 



PARSNIPS, FRIED, STEWED, ETC. 

Those which have been left in the earth all winter are sweetest and best. 
Stewed and served with meats, or allowed to cool, and fried with a coating of 
egg and cracker crumbs, duly seasoned, they are generally liked. A daintier 
dish, (Parsnip Rissoles) is prepared by draining the stewed roots, mashing 
them to a stiff paste, seasoning with salt and pepper, and sometimes a little 
sugar. Roll into croquettes or small balls, dip in beaten egg, cover with cracker 
crumbs, and fry in fat as deep as used for doughnuts. 



WHITEWASH 

Slake eight quarts of good lime in a large tub with enough boiUng water 
to make a paste. Cover until cold, stirring occasionally, to keep it smooth. 
Dissolve one quart of salt in two quarts of hot water, and half an ounce of indigo 
in a pint of hot water. Mix and add to the slacked Hme. Beat the whole 
well, and add enough cold water to make the mixture the consistency of thin 
cream. 



300 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO STEAM VELVET 

Place a clean milk pan or other tin dish bottom up over a gas or other stove, 
and keep it moderately hot. Wring a clean cloth out of water, lay it over the 
pan and pass velvet or other firm cloth over it with the wrong side next to the 
cloth. While steaming, brush the nap carefully with a moderately stiff brush. 



BANANA PIE 

Sprinkle the undercrust with a little sugar, slice in two or three ripe but 
firm bananas, add about an ounce of butter in small bits, sprinkle over them 
about half a cupful of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon; dredge with flour and 
put on the upper crust. A single crust pie is made by baking the under crust 
by itself, and when cool, adding two thinly sliced bananas. Boil together one 
cup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs, thickened with 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. When cooled, flavor with vanilla and pour over 
the bananas. If liked, whip the whites of the eggs to a froth for the top of the 
pie and brown in a quick oven but do not let the pie heat through. 



BAKED FISH 

Get very fresh, firm bass, pickerel, whitefish, cod, bluefish or shad. Scale 
and dress, brushing out the settled blood with a small stiff brush; wipe dry 
with a clean towel or cloth. Stuffing, if used, should be made of bread crumbs, 
mixed with a little milk, a small lump of butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper 
and any herb like summer savory, thyme, sweet marjoram, etc. Dredge with 
flour or corn meal and cover the bottom of the pan with water, to which a little 
lemon juice may be added to advantage. Bake slowly for forty-five to sixty 
minutes according to size of fish, basting it frequently. Serve with white sauce, 
with a little finely chopped parsley. 



TO PREVENT FREEZING 

Make hay ropes and cover the pump from base to top or make a box around 
it, and stuff it with scraps of paper well rammed down; or paste layer after layer 
of paper around the pump until the coating is an inch thick. 

The use of paper in barns and sheds will make them warmer at less expense 
than other material. Two or three layers of wrapping paper on the inner wall, 
especially if covered with one thickness of tarred paper, will keep man and beast 
in great comfort, shutting out not only wind but cold. 

Many do not hke to cover the lower part of their farmhouses with straw, 
earth or other "banking" because it injures the paint and rots the wood. By 
tacking tarred paper along the base of the house, and bending out at the bottorn, 
two great purposes are achieved: The protection against wind and frost is 
doubled, and the house cannot be touched by the material piled against it. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 301 

VEHICLE FOR GOLD PAINT 

One gill of clear oil, one gill of spirits of turpentine, one gill of Japan dryer; 
mix well and cork tight. You can mix your gold, silver, or other metallic powder 
with this and lay it on with a brush, or brush this over the object, let it dry, until 
"tacky," and lay on the powder dry with a wad of cotton or piece of old velvet. 
A thin coat of tint varying from white to orange before applying gold paint makes 
a better job, but is not absolutely necessary. 



TO SAVE STOCKINGS 

Cut out of thick wrapping paper or thin cardboard inner soles to fit your 
boots, and throw them away every day or two. They keep the feet warm, ab- 
sorb perspiration, and save darning. 



TO BOIL A HAM 

First get a good ham, scrape and clean off any dirt or marking, and soak all 
night in soft water. Put in a large boiler and cover with cold water, or if possible 
sweet cider, or pour half a bottle of lime juice into the water. Add some celery 
leaves and root, an onion stuck with six or eight cloves, a small red pepper, a 
dozen whole pepper corns, and a couple of bay leaves, if you have neither cider 
nor lime juice, add a cup of vinegar and three or four tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar, or thick sweet molasses. Bring to a boil slowly, then set on the stove 
to simmer until done. Let it cool in the liquor, then remove the skin; coat with 
brown sugar, stick with cloves and bake until browned. 



TO SAVE COAL 

When winter sets in, see that all but one window in each room is made to 
shut tightly without rattling, wedge them if necessary, and if the house is old 
cover the joints with strips of white paper neatly pasted down. See to the doors, 
and if there are cracks between the doors and door-steps, or jamb, make the 
door fit with strips of thick woolen or sheep-skin with wool on. Storm doors and 
windows can be made with light frames covered on both sides with cloth oiled 
with linseed oil or melted paraffine; these will keep out frost and let in light 
besides being light, cheap and manageable. A very little money spent in this way 
will save many dollars in fuel, and more in discomfort. Where houses are built 
in the open Greek fashion, the portieres may be replaced by light frames covered 
with cloth and finished with small doors of like make and material. When there 
are platforms and piazzas about a house they often conceal the sources of much 
discomfort. Take up some of the boards and see if the cold winter winds do not 
find free access through some hole in the masonry or underpinning. Take out all 
dirt and fill up with good clean ashes, sand, or dry loam so that no wind or vermin 
can penetrate. 



302 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

PRESERVING WHOLE FRUIT 

To make whole fruit preserves, boil the syrup until thick before adding fruit, 
which should be lowered into the syrup with a long-handled ladle to save bruising; 
the fruit should be solid, not too ripe, and freshly picked. 



TO GAIN FLESH 

Those who are too thin can add a pound a week to their weight by mixing 
a teaspoonful of Mellins Food with about a tablespoonful of hot water in a glass, 
then filling glass with milk; drink before breakfast. Repeat before dinner and 
supper. This was recommended by a friend of mine, a hospital nurse, and 
proved very successful in her case and others. 



A HARMLESS CLEANER 

A good cleaner for oil paintings, furniture, or grained wood, is hot whey, 
obtained after removing curd from sour milk; it will improve oil paintings that 
are dimmed with age; also, it is splendid for scullery work of any kind, and will 
not injure any article, if well rinsed with clear water and wiped dry. ^ 



TO SAVE SCREENS 

Oil your screens with linseed oil, thus doubling their life and preventing 
that fine rust dust from drifting into the house. In putting away the screens 
in the fall, write on each the name of the room and window to which they belong; 
this saves much time and trouble in the spring. 



FOR PLANTING CUCUMBERS 

When I first started to raise cucumbers, they were a failure, until one of 
my neighbors told me of a way which was very successful, a way of propagating 
that is done in Germany. In the first place, do not be in a hurry to plant 
them, but wait until the frost is all out of the ground and the nights are warm; 
second, be sure you get fresh seeds; then soak the seeds in luke-warm water 
for half an hour or more; next, get a piece of an old cotton sheet or pillow- 
slip; wet thoroughly in warm water, don't wring; put them in the wet cloth, 
roll up and put in a dry cup; keep on a shelf in a warm place for two or three 
days, when they will be well sprouted and ready to plant; do not let the cloth 
get dry while the seeds are in it ; dip it, with the seeds in it, in warm water when- 
ever needed during the two or three days. Plant just before, or right after a rain- 
fall; the ground will then be in the right condition to receive them. I was also 
told never to put water on the vines, but to leave that to the rain. I planted 
the "Early White Spine" which is a fine sort, very prolific and suitable for all 
purposes. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 303 

USEFUL BAKING POWDER CAN 

One-pound cans make the daintiest little loaves of bread imaginable; so 
dainty and nice for picnic sandwiches, with a delicate, paperlike crust. You 
do not need to waste the crust, for, if rightly baked, you would not know there 
was any. This size of can is also fine for boiled puddings; after greasing the can, 
put in the pudding and tie up in a cloth and boil; never put the cover on for 
either bread or pudding. As a potato chopper, this can has no equal; and half- 
pound sizes make fine soapshakers for washing dishes, cleaning and so forth. 



STARCH FOR DARK CLOTHES 

To starch dark percales, lawns, laces and so forth, take one ounce of gum 
arable and pour one-half a pint of boiling water over the pulverized gum arable; 
which has been put in a wide-mouthed bottle; add one tablespoonful of alcohol 
to solution to preserve same; keep soaked when not in use. Use about a gill of 
this mixture added to a gallon of boiled starch; the material, when ironed, will 
have that lovely crisp, fresh appearance of new goods. 



USES OF SODA 

Flowers may be kept fresh for a long time by putting a pinch of soda in the 
water. 

To promptly and effectually extinguish a fire, use soda. A large package 
of soda should be kept in every part of any building ; home, factory or elsewhere. 
The entire contents of the package should be thrown, in case of fire, at the base 
of the flames with a sweeping motion of the hand. The action of the soda on the 
fire is to extinguish it instantly. 



NEW USE FOR A BICYCLE PUMP 

A bicycle pump will clean a sewing machine when it is clogged with dust 
and it seems impossible to reach it with a cloth. 



WASHING BLANKETS 

For washing blankets, shave and melt one pound and a half of good laundry 
soap; strain through a colander into a tub half full of luke-warm water; add 
one-half poimd of powdered borax and one tablespoonful of molasses; put in a 
double blanket and soak twenty-four hours; next morning, pat and wave them 
through the water, but never rub them; press the water from them and lift 
into a tub of clean warm water; rinse till the water is clear, using a little bluing 
for the last; lift them out of the water into a basket and hang in a shady, breezy 
place; hang exactly tlirough the middle, a little full on the line. 



304 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO CLEAN FISH 

In dressing fish instead of cutting off the fins, pull them out and thus remove 
the short fin bones. To do this, hold the fish firmly by the tail, and with a 
very sharp, pointed knife cut along the sides of the fin, as closely to it as you can, 
to the depth of half an inch or more ; then taking hold of the end of the fin near- 
est the tail, pull the fin out; the end nearest the head will stick and there will 
be a few bones which will have to be cut to release it. This is a quicker and more 
satisfactory way of removing the fins than cutting them off. 



FOR INSOMNIA 

A napkin dipped in ice cold water, wrung slightly, and laid across the eyes, 
will cure insomnia. 



TESTING MILK 

If you wish to know whether the milk has been "watered" or not, take a 
well-polished knitting needle and dip it in the milk; withdraw it immediately; 
if there is water in the milk, in the least, the needle will come out quite free of the 
milky fluid. 



BLACK DRESSING 

One spoonful sweet oil, two of black ink; mix well and apply with sponge 
to boots, shoes, black kid gloves and rusty book-covers. 



SALT FOR MOTHS 

As a preventative of moths, sprinkle dry salt among your furs, under and 
over fine carpets, upholstered furniture and so forth; they will give you a wide 
berth. 



FOR DISORDERED NERVES 

When you have been on a nervous strain and are at a loss what to do, and 
know that lying down will not bring rest, try putting something in order; it 
may be a room, a box, a drawer, a desk — anything which really needs having 
order brought out of chaos; no matter what it is, and no matter how tired you 
feel, go at it quietly and systematically and you will find that by the time you 
have restored order, you are restored yourself. I have tried this often since dis- 
covering, and hope it will benefit others as much as it has me; at any rate it is 
worth trying, even if nothing else is gained, for you have the satisfaction of 
feeling that something has been accomplished. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 305 

DEODORIZER 

Equal parts of ground cloves and cinnamon. Put a hot coal on a shovel 
and sprinkle over it one-half teaspoonful of the mixture. This is a fine 
deodorizer. 



FOR SMALL BATHROOM 

If you are unfortunate enough to have a very small bathroom with no room 
for a permanent stand, you can have quite a good substitute by taking a board, 
covering it with white enamel cloth and putting across the tub. 

This is very handy to hold the bowl, soapdish and so forth and can be easily 
removed when bathtub is needed. A cleat on under part of the board will keep 
it in position. 

COOKIES WITHOUT SHORTENING 

One cup of sugar, one and one-half cupfuls of New Orleans molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, one tablespoonf ul of vinegar, four eggs, and one teaspoonful of 
soda. Mix as stiff as possible with flour. If the molasses is cold, warm it, other- 
wise enough cannot be worked in; the only possible failure with these cookies 
is in not getting in enough flour. 

BREAD STICKS 

Cut strips of bread which has risen the second time one-fourth inch 
wide and three inches long, and fry in deep fat till a dehcate brown. Fine to 
serve with salad or soup. 

Crisplets: — If the above bread sticks are dipped in a thick syrup, made 
by boiling a teaspoonful of cinnamon in a cup of granulated sugar till it spins a 
thread, they make a da-'nty accessory to a limcheon. 



HOW TO CLEAN COMBS 

The easiest and neatest way to clean a comb of dandruff', is to take a discarded 
booklet or pamphlet and gently, but firmly, strip the comb through the leaves. 



WHEN THE BUCKET LEAKS 

When a bucket leaks, wash it with hot water and soda and dry thoroughly; 
then take a small paint brush and some ordinary house paint and paint over 
the part where the hole is, afterward placing a small square of white material 
over the paint and pressing it well into position with the brush; when this is dry, 
add another piece of cloth in the same way; let the second patch dry and then 
give the pail a coat of paint inside and out. 



306 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO EXTINGUISH GASOLINE FIRE 
Wheat flour will quickly extinguish gasoline fire. 



GERMAN WAYS OF COOKING CARROTS 

Slice, parboil with a pinch of soda for five minutes, then stew in milk until 
done and salt to taste. 

Slice, parboil with a pinch of soda for a few minutes and drain, add boiling 
water and, when almost done, one-third the amount of raw potatoes, sliced. 
Cook until done, then drain off all liquid, mash, season with salt, pepper and 
sweet cream or milk and butter. 



HOW TO COOK BEANS 

In cooking navy beans that are old, parboil with soda until skins shrivel, 
then drain, add boiling water and a tablespoon of vinegar, and the beans will 
cook done in half the time required otherwise, and be just as palatable. 



GASOLINE IN THE LAMP 

If the blaze pops or sputters, turn down the wick and put out the light 
immediately; then learn whether or not gasoline has, by mistake, been put in 
the bowl instead of kerosene. 



SALT IN ALUMINUM 

Salt will draw dampness and eat up an aluminum vessel quicker than rust 
will destroy iron. Keep salt out of aluminum when not in cooking use. 



^ 



\ 



POTATOES FRIED IN COTTOLENE 

Potatoes fried or stewed slowly in cottolene so as not to harden them, the 
surplus poured off when the potatoes are nice and soft, will digest easily in a 
stomach which will not tolerate lard at all. 



CANNING BERRIES 

To can berries that incline to rise to the top of can, leaving juice in 
bottom (especially strawberries) : As soon as sealed, lay cans on their side and 
roll occasionally until cold, and berries will plump out and remain scattered 
through juice. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 307 

TURKEY FAT FOR BUTTER 

I find turkey fat and fat from hens, after it has been tried, far ahead of 
butter in cookies. 

TO MAKE HAM TENDER 

To make ham nice and tender, put about one tablespoon of vinegar in 
the frying pan while cooking the meat. 



DRY SODA FOR BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

In putting soda in buckwheat cakes, mash the soda fine and put in dry; 
you will find this method far better than dissolving soda in water. 



NAIL KEG FOR WOODBOX 

A handy device for carrying wood is made from a nail keg. Two of these 
baskets can be made from one keg. Remove the ends and saw the hoops, leaving 
the keg in two halves. Fasten the ends of the hoops securely to the staves and 
nail a hoop across the center for a handle. If the baskets are wanted for short 
wood the ends might be left in. 

NEWSPAPERS FOR PRESSING 

Use newspapers instead of cloths for pressing trousers; they make a good 
substitute. 



TO TINT FEATHERS, RIBBONS, ETC. 

You can tint white feathers, ribbons, lace, or artificial flowers any color 
you choose by dipping them in gasoline to which has been added a little tube 
paint; use a glass fruit jar for the purpose, shaking the material in it. 



TO REVIVE WILTED ROSES 

Wilted roses may be completely revived and freshened by putting the 
stems of the roses in a tumbler of water, and then place the tumbler of roses in 
a vessel of sufficient size to allow the entire bouquet to be covered 

Cover the vessel tightly and leave undisturbed for twenty-four hours. By 
that time the roses will be foimd all fresh and invigorated, as if just plucked 
from the bushes, with every petal covered with artificial dew. Wilted lettuce 
may also be freshened and kept in excellent condition for weeks if treated in 
the same way. 



308 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

A USEFUL SUGGESTION 

Keep bits of cloth handy for wiping greasy dishes and skillets — it saves 
so much grease from the dish water. 



FRESH JELLY IN WINTER 

I often can fruit juices of different kinds in the summer. It is so easy then 
to make a glass of fresh jelly as you want it in the winter. In putting up 
tomatoes I like to strain some and bottle all ready for tomato soup. 



TO FREE HOUSE OF COOKING ODORS 

If a kitchen window is kept open two inches at the top while frying foods, 
boiling cabbage or other odorous vegetables, the unpleasant odor will go out 
of the window instead of spreading through the house. 



RELIABLE RECIPE FOR PRESERVING EGGS 

There is probably no method which is more simple and effective in preser- 
vation of eggs than the use of water glass (sodium silicate). Take ten quarts 
of water which has been previously boiled and add to it one pint of water glass. 
This may be placed in a jar or tub and fresh eggs added from time to time, always 
being careful to have at least two inches of the solution over the eggs. 



STARTER FOR BREAD 

Put three tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar and a compressed yeast cake 
into a pint of the water potatoes were boiled in. Let it rise and use two-thirds 
of it for your bread, keeping one-third for the next time, when it is added to 
potato water and the three spoonfuls of granulated sugar. If kept in a cool 
place you need never be out of yeast. It is much better than any of the dry 
yeast cakes. Do not add salt to the starter as that has caused many failures. 



THE VALUE OF CHARCOAL 

Charcoal has great value as an antiseptic. Smoked ham will keep for years 
packed in charcoal. A few lumps of it in a cistern will keep the water pure and 
sweet. A quantity of it in a cellar will absorb the odors, and a small lump 
boiled with cabbage or onions will do the same. Butter put into small vessels 
completely surrounded with charcoal will keep sweet a long time. A paste of 
powdered charcoal and honey makes a good dentrifice. It not only cleans the 
teeth, but disinfects them and sweetens the breath. Taken inwardly it is good 
for the digestion and relieves constipation. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 309 

VINEGAR TO WHITEN THE HANDS 

If the housewife is troubled with rough hands, try bathing in cider vinegar 
after washing and rinsing free from soap, and let the vinegar dry in. This will 
soften and whiten the hands. 



HOME-MADE FIRE EXTINGUISHER 

A simple fire extinguisher may be made at home, and if kept always on 
hand, will sometimes prove of great value. Take twenty pounds of common 
salt and ten pounds of sal-ammonia (nitrate of ammonia), which can be bought 
at any drug store. Dissolve these in seven gallons of water. Put in thin glass 
bottles holding a quart each, cork tightly, and seal to prevent evaporation. 
When a fire breaks out, throw one of these bottles so that it will break in or 
near the flames, or if this is not possible, break off the neck of the bottle and 
scatter contents on the fire. This has been tested. Sometimes it is necessary 
to use several bottles. 



SUGAR FOR TURNIPS 

Season boiled turnips as usual, then add a tablespoonful of sugar a few 
minutes before serving. This makes them more palatable, removing that dis- 
agreeable strong taste, and giving them a dehcious flavor. 



TO STOP BLEEDING 

One way of stanching the flow of blood from a cut, or other wound, 
given by a physician, has been found very effective. Press the thumb, 
finger, or fingers, upon the wound tightly. Continue the heavy pressure 
several minutes until the blood coagulates. 



NEW CALENDARS OUT OF OLD 

If handy with the paint brush, take the old calendars that are mounted 
on heavy boards, remove the date block from the bottom and paint the whole 
frame around the picture in tints harmonizing with the picture. Place a new 
date block on the bottom and you have a vei-y pretty gift for a friend. 



STUFFED WARM BISCUIT 

Carefully remove the top from nice, large warm biscuit. Take out the 
center and fill the shell with creamed oysters thickened. Replace the top and 
put a spoonful of the dressing over the whole. Creamed chicken may be used 
instead of oysters, if preferred. 



310 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO BOIL EGGS 

When boiling eggs, be sure the water is boiling when you drop the eggs in, 
and you will have no trouble to remove the shells. 



HOW TO GET RID OF ANTS 

The little red ants came in multitudes into my store-room this summer. 
I removed the sugar pails and soaked a large sponge in sweetened water, putting 
it in a shallow tin where the sugar had stood. Two or three times a day I dipped 
it in hot water, killing quantities each time. 

BASTING THREAD PULLER 

An old shoemaker's awl, fixed in a convenient handle, makes the best 
basting thread puller. 



MARKER FOR FANCY WORK 

Use a crimped "invisible" hair-pin as a marker in knitting or crocheting 
wool yarn. It stays in place and is not in the way. 



TO SAVE THE HOT WATER BAG 

Before, or even after the rubber hot water bag begins to show signs of the 
sides sticking together, take this precaution. Drain well, then inflate the bag 
somewhat with the breath, and quickly screw in the stopper. The sides will be 
held apart, and consequently cannot stick together. 



HOW TO WASH A LAMP GLOBE 

In washing glass lamp globes, if they are first washed in warm soap and 
water, then rinsed in cold water and placed on the top of a hot range until the 
moisture is nearly gone, they will need very little polishing, and will be found 
to have a beautiful luster. The globes will not crack if first placed on the back 
of the range until tempered by the heat. 



TO REMOVE PAINT FROM GLASS 

To remove paint from glass, make a paste of saleratus moistened with water, 
apply with a cloth, then rub it off and rinse with clear water. Every particle 
will come off easily. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 311 

A CHEAP MOUSE-PROOF MORTAR 

Take one cupful of wheat flour, two cupfuis of common wood ashes and 
boiling water enough to make a thick paste suitable to spread with a knife 
while warm; fill all cracks with this and the mice won't gnaw it. This makes 
a very good mortar in place of common lime mortar, when this falls off in little 
pieces. 



A MOUSE TRAP 

Take a good-sized thimble, fill it with cake or cheese and lay it on the side 
with the filled end under a bowl— a common bowl will do. Use a glass cover, 
then you can see the mouse. Set the bowl on the small end of the thimble as 
near the edge as you can get it, and when mousie goes under to nibble, down 
goes the bowl and he is in a trap. If you set it on a piece of board, it can be 
easily carried out. 

CORNCOB SUGGESTIONS 

Corncobs furnish the most excellent material for smoking meat. 

Corncobs placed in musty syrups and the latter brought to a scalding heat 
will impart a palatable flavor. 

Corncobs immersed in syrup and baked brown will make a change in cereal 
coffee. 

Corncobs broken in bits and burned will make an agreeable disinfectant. 

Corncobs dipped in molasses and given to cows improves their flow of milk 
and general condition. 



OYSTER SHELLS FOR TEAKETTLE 

If you are troubled with lime settling in the bottom of your kettle, jus^ 
put in two oyster shells. When these are covered with lime put in new ones. 



SALT FOR BEATING EGGS 

A little salt added to an egg before beating it makes it very light and much 
easier to beat. 



MATTRESS PADS 

A satisfactory mattress pad may be made from a lightweight cotton blanket 
and four pounds of cotton. Spread the latter out between the two thicknesses 
of the blanket, then tie it here and there. Lastly loosely overcast it around 
the edges, so that it will be an easy matter to take it apart to wash the outside 
covering. 



312 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO KEEP HOLDERS HANDY 

On the kitchen apron put a pocket about eighteen inches from the bottom, 
large enough to hold the holders used about the stove when baking. 

On the lower corners of the kitchen apron put pads, to be used for holders 
when baking. 



RAIN-SPOTTED VELVET 

My hat was a sight, dotted all over with tiny rain spots. I brushed it care- 
fully the usual way with no results, then I tried brushing it against the grain 
and the spots all came out. 

VINEGAR INSTEAD OF GLOVES 

In winter weather you can hang out the weekly wash with perfect comfort 
if you wet your hands well with vinegar, letting it dry on before going out. 



FOR DARK CELLAR 

If your cellar is dark, whiten the bottom step. You will then be able to 
see when you reach the bottom and will thus avoid a fall. 



CLOTHESPIN FOR APPLE CORER 

To core apples use an ordinary clothespin. To pit cherries use a shoe- 
button hook. 



MOT^AbSES AWD WATER FOR ANTS 

A good way to exterminate ants is by placing an oatmeal dish partly full of 
molasses and water where they congregate; as only one celery of ants infests 
the house at a time, it is not long before that colony is exterminated by drown- 
ing. You will not be troubled until another season. 



SUBSTITUTE FOR CASTOR OIL 

An effective substitute for castor oil is made as follows: Take a quarter of 
a pound of figs and stew them slowly in olive oil; when they are swollen adu 
honey and lemon juice to taste, and put into an earthen jar or glass. Shoul.i 
medicine be required by either adult or child, one fig will have the same efTcov 
as a dose of castor oil, and is much more pleasant to take. It will leave tuo 
skin clear and fresh. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 313 

SOAP SAVER 

As a soap saver I take a thin cake of soap nearly used up and soak it in 
hot water a few moments and place it on a new cake; it soon adheres and will 
last as long as the rest. 

TO DRY RUBBER BOOTS 

When your little boy comes in with wet rubber boots, try pulling them on 
sticks that will stand up against the wall. In a short time boots will be nicely 
dried on inside. The sticks should reach nearly to ceiling where the heat is. 



A NEW USE FOR SALT 

Occasionally put a handful of kitchen salt in the washbowl to keep the 
waste pipe from fiUing up. That same salt if rubbed on the dirty bowl will 
clean it beautifully and easily. 



FOR PLANTING HORSERADISH 

When setting out horseradish roots put a board about six inches below the 
roots and your horseradish roots will be shorter and thicker and not so scraggly 
as is usual. 



TO RID GREENS OF INSECTS 

If lettuce is first put into quite warm water, the insects will come out and 
be found at the bottom of the water. By being transferred then to cold water, 
it becomes crisp and fresh. This will prove' effective in cleaning all kinds of 
"greens." 



A "SHORT CUT" IN BREAD-MAKING 

Mix the bread at night in the usual proportions of warm water (or milk), 
salt, sugar, shortening, flour and yeast — only instead of a thin "sponge" make 
the mixture as thick as can be stirred with a big spoon. Beat and stir it 
thoroughly for five minutes, then cover it and place where it will be in no danger 
of chilling. Early in the morning beat it again, dip it into well-buttered baking- 
pans, let it rise, and bake it with the same fire that cooks breakfast. This is 
the entire- wheat bread which is used so much. Make white bread in the same 
way, except that you add a little more flour in the morning, just enough to permit 
the dough to be formed very quickly into loaves, ten minutes being ample time for 
four loaves. Why spend half a day over the woik — wasting time and fuel — when 
a "short cut" leads to perfectly satisfactory results? 



314 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

FRYING DOUGHNUTS 

A tablespoonful of vinegar put in the hot lard before frying doughnuts will 
prevent their taking up the lard. 

BETTER THAN A WHETSTONE 

Scissors and knives can be quickly sharpened with a small fine-cut file. It 
is superior to a whetstone for taking the " nicks " out of knives. 

POTATOES KEPT FROM ROTTING 

To keep potatoes from rotting in the cellar, drop or dust dry lime among 
them. 



POULTRY FOOD 

Roast to a crisp several ears of corn and chop up to feed the hens. There 
will soon be a noticeable increase in the number of eggs. 



A HINT TO THE LAUNDRESS 

Cover scorched places with ordinary starch, dampen, lay in the sim for an 
hour and every vestige of scorch will disappear. 



BACKGROUND FOR A COUCH 

Nearly every housewife knows how soiled wall-paper behind a couch often 
becomes, especially where there are children. Tack a piece of fancy matting 
to the wall, extend the lower edge to the baseboard, and put a narrow picture- 
molding at the upper edge. When the pillows are arranged the effect is very 
pleasing. 

TO TAKE STAINS FROM THE HANDS 

One part alcohol, five parts lemon-juice; mix and put away in bottle; rub 
on the hands when they are stained from fruit or vegetables. Use before doing 
any fine needlework ; it makes the fingers smooth so they will not fray material. 
It will keep indefinitely. 

RELIEF FROM PRICKLY HEAT 

Dissolve a tablespoonful of Epsom salts in cold water and apply to afflicted 
Burface; it will relieve all irritation and prevent any further trouble. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 315 

GRATE LEMONS WHEN WET 

If when grating lemon rind the lemon is kept wet, it will not stick in the 
grater. 

TO REMOVE EGG STAINS ON SILVER 

Salt will remove the stains from silver caused by eggs, if applied dry with 
a soft cloth. 



TO ERADICATE PAINT STAINS 

Equal parts of ammonia and turpentine will remove paint from clothing, 
no matter how dry and hard it may be. Saturate the spot two or three times, 
then wash with soapsuds. 

TO FRESHEN WRINKLED SILK 

To make silk which has been wrinkled and "tumbled" appear exactly like 
new, sponge it on the surface with a weak solution of gum arabic or white glue, 
and iron it on the wrong side. 

FOR SALAD DRESSING 

In making salad dressing mix the eggs, mustard, etc., together, but before 
putting in the vinegar, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of cold water so that it 
wiU not curdle. 



CHOPPED INSTEAD OF GRATED CHEESE 

When preparing macaroni and cheese, put the cheese through your food 
chopper instead of grating it. It is much quicker and easier. 



SHIELD FOR A WIND-SWEPT PORCH 

It may help some of the Home-makers who have a wind-swept porch 
to know of a simple protection for httle plants, hke seedling flowers or tomato 
or cabbage plants, which they start early in the house, transplanting when the 
ground gets warm enough. Make a shield of a hght, foot-wide board, 
about three feet long, two triangular boards for braces, and three or four 
laths. Nail the triangular boards upright against the ends of the long board 
like brackets on a shelf, and nail the laths across the other side. Set the 
pan of little plants in the half-box thus made, on the laths, with the board up 
against the wind. The little plants will smile in the sunshine and the ,winds 
beat against their firm background to no purpose. 



316 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

A SAFE WAY TO TAKE OUT INK STAINS 

Soak the articles in quite warm water to which has been added several 
spoonfuls of gasohne; rub and squeeze with the hands, and wash in the usual way. 



TO CLEAN A WATCH 

To clean your watch, open up the face and back and immerse it in gasohne 
for a short time. Leave it open till the gasoline has evaporated, and then oil 
it with the best oil you can procure. This does not injure the watch, and the 
settlings in the gasohne will show that it removes dirt. 



TO TOUGHEN A BROOM 

Immerse the brush of the broom in boiling suds occasionally — say as often 
as once a week. This will prevent the broom from cutting the carpet, and \dll 
make it last longer. 

NEW|USE FOR A PAINT BRUSH 

Try putting your frosting on the cake with a small paint brush (kept ex- 
pressly for that purpose) and see if it will not lessen the work and be more 
satisfactory. 

PICKLED APPLES 

When pickling apples you will find the task much easier to put apples in 
a two or three gallon jar, then pour the liquid (one part vinegar to two parts 
brown sugar and spices) over apples, set jar in boiler of water and cook till fruit 
is tender. 



EASIEST WAY TO REMOVE IRON RUST 

The easiest, quickest and surest way of removing iron rust from white 
material is to place on the spot of rust a generous quantity of powdered alum 
and hold over the spout of the boiling teakettle; very soon the rust will disappear. 



WASHING MEN'S WORKING CLOTHES 

When washing men's or boys' working clothes, such as pants or coats, 
hang them on the line without wringing, directly from the rinse water, and they 
will dry nicely without being streaked. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 317 

NEW-FASHIONED MOTH BALLS 

Balls of cotton dipped in oil of cedar and placed in boxes become a good 
moth preventive, and, unlike the old-fashioned detestable moth balls, they 
impart a delightfully clean and fresh odor. 



AN EXCELLENT TOOTH POWDER 

This can be made at home at a small cost and of sufficient quantity to last a 
family a year. Buy prepared chalk in bulk, and to one-eighth part of ground 
castile soap add seven-eighths part of the chalk, mixing thoroughly. Add a 
little wintergreen or peppermint essence, and fill any tooth-powder bottles or 
jars you have. 

A "PROBABLE HISTORY" 

A great many of my most appreciated gifts of last year were made by utiliz- 
ing a stack of old magazines — the illustrations and advertisements. All of us 
wJho anticipate a qviiet summer at home or at some as yet "undiscovered" 
resort, can arm ourselves with a lavish supply of magazines and "prepare for 
war in time of peace." The booklet, of twenty-five or fifty leaves, may be 
made either for a gentleman or a lady, and is called a "Probable History." 
Letter paper may be used if no other sort is obtainable, but the leaves from 
a drawing tablet are much more artistic looking. Lace together with ribbon 
or fasten the leaves with art clasps. If your chum is a college man or woman, 
use nobon of the college colors. Cut from the magazines pictures of all sizes 
of boys, girls, pets, men, women and a goodly number of Cupids. If the friend 
for whom you make the history is especially fond of any kind of sport, — hunt- 
ing, boating or other fad — have a good supply of pictures representing their 

particular hobby. On the cover write "Probable History" of , giving 

the name in full and any hand decorations to make the cover more attractive. 
Then begin with the baby pictures — the first short dress, and the proud mamma 
showing "the little dear" off in various and sundry ways. To make the "his- 
tory" seem more real than probable, if the person has brothers and sisters, put 
in the required number, writing fitting remarks or explanations under each 
picture. Step by step, always by means of well-chosen pictures, carry the 
subject up to college, cunningly introduce Cupid and the sweetheart days, 
amid a great round of gaieties, receptions, parties, dances, etc. And now comes 
the most dehghtful and reahstic part of the history — they meet their fate, fall 
desperately in love and become engaged. The wedding pages can be made 
most attractive with pictures of the bride and groom under which lines from 
"Lohengrin" may be written, and one who is handy with paints or pen and 
ink can sketch in wedding-bells and other appropriate embellishments. The 
wedding trip and honeynioon come next, and finally they are brought home 
to a tiny cottage where they keep house and decide " There's no place like home," 
and "Two's company and three's a crowd." This is an inexpensive and a very 
unique gift. 



318 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

AN IMPROVISED SHADE 

When a subdued light is necessary in a sick room, place the handle of a 
palm-leaf fan in a vase and set on the table near the lamp. This is an easy 
and effectual shade for the patient's face. 



FOR IN-GROWING TOENAILS 

A correspondent of the British Medical Journal says of the treatment of 
in-growing toenails: — "I have for many years used tannin for the purpose, 
and do not find rest necessary. A concentrated solution (an ounce of perfectly 
fresh tannic acid dissolved in six drachms of pure water with a gentle heat) 
must be painted on the tender parts twice a day." 



A SIMPLE DEODORIZER 

Pieces of orangepeel if placed on a hot stove and allowed to burn to a 
crisp will remove any objectionable smell of cooking, besides cleansing and puri- 
fying the air in a remarkable degree. 



CHEMISTRY AS APPLIED TO AN OMELET 

Few housekeepers have any knowledge of the chemistry of food, and there- 
fore do not realize that pepper and salt should not be added to an omelet imtil 
just before it is taken from the fire, when a thread of vinegar should be dropped 
at one side of the pan and allowed to run around the edge; thus is made an 
omelet famous for its tenderness, while if the salt is mixed with the eggs while 
they are being beaten, it serves only to toughen them. Omelets should be 
eaten as soon as cooked. 



A "BUNNY" CLOAK FOR BABY 

Instead of making the usual baby or infant's long cloak, try making the 
"Bunny" coat. Bind with satin ribbon one and one-half inches wide a yard 
square of eiderdown or material of that nature. When ready to take baby 
out, put on the hood as usual, and lay the little one about in the center of the 
square; then turn end up over feet and sides toward center, leaving loose cor- 
ners at the baby's head which can be turned away from the face. Use safety- 
pins to secure these sides and end, and fasten a pretty rosette of same ribbon 
as was used for binding where the outside safety-pin comes. It is not customary 
to make any coat before the wee one's arrival, and later there is the dread of 
making a coat, but this is so simply fashioned and so easily done by hand, that 
the mother can do it shortly after sitting up. There is the comfort of not hav- 
ing to put sleeves on baby when ready to start out. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 319 

ASBESTOS ON THE RANGE 

For ten cents you can buy a piece of asbestos as large as is necessary to 
lay over the range, and you will find it very helpful, as it keeps the range clean 
and will prevent food from burning or boiling over. Small sheets of asbestos 
are also useful to lay over or under the tins in the oven when baking, according 
as the oven gets too hot above or below. In hot weather lay paraffine paper 
over asbestos sheets and roll out cookies on them, shaping the cakes with a 
sharp knife, and baking without removing from the asbestos. This process 
requires less heat than it takes to bake in pans. 



HAND-MADE TRIMMING WILL RETAIN ITS FRESHNESS 

If the thread is skeined over the hand and knob of a chair, and the skein 
covered with boiling water, after which dry and wind again on spool. The 
trimming made from thread thus treated loses none of its original beauty after 
laimdering, as is the case when made from spool direct from the store. 



WHEN HOT DISH STICKS TO OILCLOTH 

When a hot dish sticks to your new oilcloth, empty the dish and add hot 
water; keep adding as the water cools, until the dish is sufficiently heated to 
loosen itself. 



A HELP FOR WASHING DAY 

When rinsing clothes, shake the towels smooth, fold as you would to iron 
and run through a tight wringer; by unfolding carefully when you hang them 
on the line, they retain the smoothness and creases and are ready to fold and 
put away as soon as dry. The same is true of many coarse flat things. 



MOIST CAKE 

To keep cake from drying out, beat a tablespoonful of hot water with the 
sugar and butter; it makes it easier to beat besides keeping your cake from 
getting dry. 

BAKED GREEN PEPPERS 

Select large peppers; cut in halves lengthwise and remove seeds; rinse in 
cold water. Use any cold meat and chop it up with stale bread as for hash; 
moisten with tomato juice and season with salt, pepper and melted butter; 
put a thin layer on each pepper; lay in a dripping pan with a very little water; 
bake an hour, until done. These are delicious for any meal. 



320 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

FLAT INSIDE POCKET 

You will find a flat pocket on the inside of your kitchen apron very handy 
for handkerchief, small change and note book; being on the inside, it cannot 
catch on any projection and tear. 



DOUGHNUTS FREE FROM GREASE 

No more greasy doughnuts! And why? Because, when frying them, have 
a kettle of boiling water near and dip each cake instantly in and out of the 
hot water as you take it out of the fat; this makes the cakes keep moist longer 
as well as removing the extra fat. 



FOUR GOOD SUGGESTIONS 

1 — You may save many a mealy potato by using a hatpin, instead of a 
fork, to ascertain when they are done. 

2 — Shell your peas as soon as you can after picking, whether you cook 
them or not, as much of their sweetness is absorbed by the pod. The same 
principle appUes to husking corn. 

3 — Drain yoiu* fine china and glass dishes on a Turkish towel; by so doing, 
you not only save noise, but many a nick, crack and possibly a break. 

4 — Put a small pinch of salt in each bottle of milk for baby; the salt makes 
the milk digest more easily and is more strengthening. 



SLIPPERY ELM BARK SALVE 

Shred the bark and soak in warm water until a thick mucilage is made. 
Excellent for nail wounds, old sores, boils and scratches on horses; it cleans 
the wound and heals quickly. 

FOR SUN-BONNETS 

After ironing a bonnet, pin it around a gallon syrup pail and place near 
the stove; when dry it is round on top and fits the head. 



TO DRIVE AWAY FLIES AND MOSQUITOES 

A drop of oil of lavender in a small dish of water will drive away flies, and 
a little dabbled on one's stockings at the ankles makes it possible to sit on a 
"mosquito-y" piazza with comfort — a condition absolutely impossible, ordi- 
narily, even with joss sticks or the "friendly nearness" of a cigar. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 321 

QUICKLY PATCHED OVERALLS 

Rip the inside seam, lay on a generous patch and sew on the machine; 
re-sew the seam, and a great bugbear is easily vanquished. 



STOCKING KITCHEN RUGS 

Ladies, take the family's worn stockings, cut them round and round, each 
in one long strip, and have them made into rugs. Overalls make fine rugs, too. 



CUTTING BROWN BREAD 
Try cutting warm brown bread with a strong thread. 



SANDPAPER FOR "SHINY CLOTH" 

To remove the " shine " of wear on cloth or dress goods, use fine sandpaper 
and press. 

FOR THE PRIMROSE 

To keep a primrose in bloom, set the pot in a saucer of water; never water 
the soil directly and they will bloom indefinitely 



TO KEEP CRANBERRIES FRESH 

When they are your own growing, do not remove the chaff by winnowing; 
take to a cool upstairs place and stir lightly with the hand occasionally, till 
dry; then leave them to freeze, as it happens, and they will keep both color 
and flavor as long as they last. 

NEW WAY TO BAKE JUICY PIES 

Place half the amount of sugar used on bottom crust with a slice of bread, 
cut into small squares; then put in the fruit and the other half of the sugar 
with bits of butter on top; put on top crust. The bread will absorb the juice. 



LIGHT DUMPLINGS 

To insure light dumplings, drop them in the stew and leave the cover off 
the kettle until they are twice the size they were when dropped in; then place 
on the cover and boil fifteen minutes. 



322 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO CLEAN PATENT LEATHER SHOES 
Use the white of an egg to clean patent leather shoes. 



FOR EMBROIDERY SILK 

Wrap each skein in tissue paper, and your silk will never become rough 
or tangled. 

IN FRYING DOUGHNUTS 

Try using a spoon egg-beater to remove doughnuts from the hot grease; 
it is a great improvement on the fork. 



AN AID TO DIGESTION 

Take the lining of a chicken gizzard, scrub clean, then dry. Eat a small 
portion at a time, several times a day; it is most effective in the morning before 
breaking your fast. A lady troubled very much with indigestion found per- 
manent relief after using two of these hnings. 



BLUING DISTRIBUTED EVENLY 

When rinsing clothes in hard water, the bluing will distribute as evenly 
as in soft water, if a half to two-thirds cup of sweet milk is added — according 
to the amount of water. 



SUBSTITUTE FOR BEESWAX 

In the absence of beeswax or parafiine, sad-irons, heated by gas-flames, or 
otherwise, may be rendered perfectly smooth by a particle of lard on a sheet 
of brown paper. 

REMOVING STONES FROM PEACHES 

When peaches cling to the stone, cut around the peach with a knife before 
peeling, give it a httle twist with the fingers and the peach will open withou 
any trouble. 

RHUBARB AND FIG SAUCE 

Take one package of figs and one orange or lemon, cut in very small pieces, 
cover with water and cook until tender; stir this into four quarts of stewed 
rhubarb, add sugar to suit the taste and cook until thick. Very good and rich. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 323 

CANDLE HINT 

Run a wax candle several times through hot starch, which has had a pinch 
of salt added to it. 



"CAMP" BOILED EGGS 

To boil eggs when camping, boil briskly while singing the four stanzas of 
"My Country, 'Tis of Thee," then "Let all that breathe partake." 



TO SCREEN BATHROOM WINDOWS 

If you wish to screen bathroom windows, or any others, without excluding 
the light, paint them with the preparation made by dissolving pulverized gum 
tragacanth in the white of an egg for twenty-four hours. Apply to the window 
panes with a soft brush. 

WHITE INSTEAD OF BLACK FOR SCREENS 

It is not generally known, that if window-screens are painted with a thin 
white paint, instead of with black, as they often are, those inside the house 
may look through the screens the same as before, while outsiders cannot see 
inside. 



NEW SHOES MADE WATERPROOF 

Warm the soles of new shoes and while they are warm, paint them with 
copal varnish; when it dries, paint them again; three such coats will not only 
make the soles waterproof, but will make them last twice as long. 



SENSIBLE SUGGESTIONS 

Always pin stockings and socks on the line by the tops, as the pins help 
wear holes in the toes. When taking off soiled stockings, pin them together, 
at the top, with small safety pins, before putting them in soiled clothes bag. 
Wash, hang up to dry, press and darn before unpinning them; then roll 
them up and put away; sa^^es time matching up stockings after mending day. 



FOR THE NASTURTIUM 

To make your nasturtiums bloom, pull off nearly all the leaves; they grow 
60 large and shade the vines so, they do not bloom as well as they will if you 
pull off many of the leaves; also never let seed-pods form, as they stop the 
blooming as well. 



324 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

TO PREVENT TOMATOES CURDLING 

If adding milk or cream to tomatoes, add first a pinch of baking soda; it 
will prevent curdling in every instance. 



WASHLESS CHIMNEYS 

Merely breathe through lamp chimneys and poUsh with paper; they never 
require washing. 

NEW RUBBERS EACH TIME IN CANNING 

It is a mistake to use can rubbers the second time to save a little additional 
expense. Use a new rubber each time and you will be assured of success. 



SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL 

Salad dressing without oil for potato, nut, apple or any vegetable salad: — 
One egg, one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth 

teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of mustard, two teaspoonfuls of flour; 

mix till smooth; add slowly one-half cup of boiling vinegar; let come to a boil; 

thin with cream till right consistency. 



CURE FOR CHIGGER BITES 

When suffering from bites of the "chigger," take common sulphur and 
vaseline and mix together and apply to affected parts; it will give almost instant 
reUef . This remedy will relieve almost any skin irritation caused by insect bites, 
sun-burn, heat, etc. A small box should be in your " kit " on every trip to the 
woods or water. 



SKIRT-HANGING MADE EASY 

To turn up evenly the bottom of a skirt for hemming try this method: 
place the end of a yardstick on the floor close to the skirt and at the top of 
the stick place a pin in the skirt; move the yardstick little by httle around the 
body, placing a pin in skirt at top edge of stick each time it is set on the floor. 
After going thus all around the skirt, lay it on a bed and place one end of the 
yardstick at the hne of pins, and at the lower part of skirt, place a pin as far 
from the end of yardstick as desired around in this manner, then turn the hem 
at new line of pins and baste it. This method insures a perfect-hanging skirt 
and makes it possible to hang a skirt on one's own person imaided and without 
difficulty. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 325 

SMOKELESS LAMPS 

Boil your lamp wicks in vinegar, dry them thoroughly, and your lamps 
will not smoke. 



TO KEEP FRUIT JELLIES A LONG TIME 

Fruit jellies of all kinds will keep for years, if covered with pulverized 
sugar to the depth of a quarter of an inch. 



SLIPPER HELP 

Line the back of low shoes and slippers, that slip down, with velvet, care- 
fully pasted in. 

HOT GRIDDLE CAKE HELP 

Try adding a tablespoonful of melted lard to your batter for griddle cakes; 
also a spoonful of dark molasses; grease griddle pan for the first cakes only. 



CURRANT WORMS 

For worms on currant bushes, cover the ground at the base of the bushes 
with coal ashes 



A VIRGINIA DISH 

In a baking dish place alternate layers of sliced apples and sliced boiled 
sweet potatoes, each layer sweetened and flavored with nutmeg; add a lump 
of butter, pour over it a little water and bake slowly until the top is nicely 
browned; serve in dish in which it is baked. DeUcious! 



SLIP FOR SUIT-CASE 

Make for your suit-case a heavy duck slip cover, neatly "boxed" like a 
mattress, and fastened securely with strap and buckles each side of the handla 
This will keep the suit-case from being scratched and marred. 



326 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



OLD-FASHIONED DYES 

The more durable vegetable and mineral dye-stuffs of "ye olden time," are 
again coming into favor, and many lovers of fancy work will find the following 
hints of service, even if only used to dye carpet rags, or color Easter eggs. 

Yellow: Steep saffron in an earthen dish and use more or less to give a 
deep or light straw color. The dry outside skins of onions steeped as above give 
a richer yellow. Peach leaves when full-grown, or the inner bark and roots of 
the barberry, give a fair tint. A rinsing of the colored goods in weak alum 
water helps to set the above colors. 

Brown : White maple bark boiled in a brass kettle and a little alum added 
gives a light brown. Lye of wood ashes with half an ounce of copperas to the 
pailful boiled in it until dissolved dyes cottons a fast nankeen shade. Birch 
bark covered with water and boiled in brass or tin with copperas as above gives 
a nankeen tint; if alum is used instead of copperas, it dyes a slate. Black tea 
boiled in iron with copperas dyes slate. Logwood boiled in iron with cider or 
water and vinegar and a little copperas gives a good black. Any rusty iron 
boiled in vinegar with copperas makes a black dye. 

Light Red: In two gallons of water, boil for two hours six ounces co- 
chineal; eight ounces logwood; four ounces fustic; six ounces tin crystals; 
one ounce cream of tartar. Let the material to be dyed simmer two hours. 
Handle with rubber gloves. 

Dark Red: Boil in two gallons of water eight ounces fustic, one pound 
of cochineal, one pound of logwood for two hours. The material to be dyed 
must soak for twenty-four to forty-eight hours in a solution of five ounces of 
alum and five ounces of cream of tartar, boiled until dissolved. Drain the 
material and boil in the dye until it takes the desired shade. 

Orange: Prepare (mordant) as above, and immerse in a boihng bath of 
eight quarts of water, one pound of madder and one pound of fustic. For a 
dark orange mordant, as above, and boil for two hours in eight quarts of water 
with one pound of madder, two ounces of logwood and a half pound of fustic. 

Yellow: Powdered yellow dock root, boiled in eight quarts of water. 

Brown: Boil four ounces of copperas two hours in eight quarts of water. 
Use while hot. 

Violet: Boil one pound of logwood, four ounces of cochineal and one ounce 
of alum in eight quarts of water. 



SNAKE BITE 

Besides the rattlesnakes of several varieties found in some degree in every 
section of the Union, the moccasin, the copperhead and water moccasin of the 
Eastern and Southeastern states, there is but one dangerously poisonous species, 
the coral snake, found in the Southern states from southern Virginia to the Rio 
Grande. The last named is a small and slender reptile, with a black nose and 
rings of red and black, the black rings being bordered with narrow bands of 
yellow. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 327 

The bite of very poisonous snakes leaves only the punctures of two or possibly 
one fang, while the bite of less dangerous species show, with or without the deeper 
punctures, the bite of other teeth. 

Recent experiments with antivenenes, that is, a serum that can be hypo- 
dermically injected into or near the wound, has shown that special serum must 
be prepared for each species. Therefore, if a specific serum for rattlesnake bite 
is desired, it can be secured at the Rockefeller Institute, New York city, of Profes- 
sor Noguchi, or in Chicago. About one-third of an ounce of antivenene injected 
under the skin (abdomen preferred), has saved life fifteen or twenty hours after 
being bitten. 

Where antivenene is not at hand, and indeed in any case, the first thing to be 
done is to prevent the absorption of the poison. If bitten on a finger, the im- 
mediate amputation of the finger is a sure defense, but when any limb is bitten, 
a handkerchief, necktie, small cord or shoe string must be tied aroimd the limb 
between the wound and the heart, and twisted so tightly as to prevent the 
return of the poisoned blood to the heart. Some place several ligatures one 
above the other. Then the wound should be squeezed in such a way as to 
express as much of the venom as possible, and the fang punctures should each be 
enlarged by two cuts at least as deep as they have penetrated. The blood and 
venom may be sucked out by anyone whose mouth is vmwounded, but cupping 
can be used in most cases. A bottle filled with boiling hot water, emptied and 
placed over the wound, will usually bring a flow of blood and venom, and this 
may be repeated frequently until satisfied that nothing but blood is drawn. A 
common clay tobacco pipe bowl thus heated and placed over the wound with 
the stem closed will "draw" very strongly. 

Permanganate of potash crystals should always be kept on hand in a "snake 
country," as that is the great reliance in India, where myriads die yearly from 
snake bite. After washing the wound with clear water, use water in which 
permanganate of potash has been dissolved until it is of a deep wine color. Then 
use the antivenene, but if not at hand, rub powdered permanganate of potash 
into the wound, and if a hypodermic syringe can be procured, inject a strong 
solution of the permanganate of potash into a series of punctures surrounding 
the snake bite, and apply over the wound a cloth saturated with the same solu- 
tion. Every half-hour the dressing should be raised and more of the solution 
poured over the wound. 

A solution of chlorinated lime (chloride of lime), one ounce of chloride of 
lime to twelve ounces of water, is thus used by some physicians after an elastic 
constriction (an India rubber ligature) is placed above the wound. Just before 
being used, nine ounces of water are added, and of this weakened naixture about 
an ounce is injected above the bite. The gases disengaged neutralize the snake 
venom. 

After all has been done that can be done to remove and neutralize the poison, 
the ligatures should be loosened by degrees, beginning first of all with those 
furthest from the wound and nearest the body. It will not do to long con- 
tinue the stoppage of circulation, and the patient must fight out his fight for 
life. To maintain his vitality, use hot water bottles and hot bricks; hot drinks — 
water, milk, soups, beef tea, but no whiskey — should be given. If too weak to 
swallow, the drinks may he injected. If possible, he should walk about, but if 
too weak, the hmbs may be rubbed. Alternate appUcations of hot and cold wet 



328 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

compresses to the spine, or a wet sheet rub and hot baths have been used to good 
effect. 

The wounds should be kept open by bits of sterihzed gauze, and frequently 
dressed with the permanganate solution for several days. After that time, it 
may be allowed to heal by the end of a week, but it is not unlikely that for months 
after a bite from a mountain rattlesnake, the patient will feel a twinge or two 
of pain to remind him of the great ophidian. 

It should be said that the general consensus of experts condemns the free 
use of whiskey as an antidote for snake bites, nor does there seem to be a confi- 
dent belief in the healing power of the snake's skin or small chicken split open 
and used as a plaster on the wound. 



OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY 

Take equal quantities of brown sugar and Porto Rico molasses, boil and 
skim well, and if necessary, strain it; then boil until a few drops poured into cold 
water are brittle and do not stick to the teeth when bitten. Pour out on a well- 
greased stone slab or shallow dish, and, as it cools, turn the edges in upon the 
centre until the whole mass is cool enough to handle. Flour the hands and work 
until a bright golden color, then pull into sticks and cut to length. Sprinkle 
plates with powdered sugar and between the sticks of candy, if piled on each 
other, to prevent sticking together. A little oil or essence of peppermint, anise, 
cinnamon or clove may be added to a part of the candy, and pulled only enough 
to incorporate the flavor. Good molasses, if sweet enough, may be used without 
the sugar, as above, but will need more "pulling" and will not look so bright. 

White Chewing Candy: Boil very carefully until the cooled syrup cracks 
like glass, one and a half pints of golden syrup and two and a half pounds of white 
moist sugar. When poured out to cool, work in any flavor, and pull until white. 

Corn Balls: Boil one quart of molasses, as above, until it is only waxy 
when dipped in water. Have one-half bushel of corn nicely popped and free 
of hard kernels, and laid several inches thick in a dripping-pan. Add to the 
molasses candy one-half cup of thick gum arable solution made the night before, 
stir well and pour over the corn, lifting it up and mixing it as you go; then with 
your hand slightly buttered, roll the balls into shape, or with a knife cut into 
squares to be broken apart when set. Brown or white sugar may be used instead 
of molasses, adding a cupful of water before boiling. The proportions given 
should make eight or nine dozen balls. 

Nut Candy: Before cracking pecans or walnuts for making candy, pour 
boiling hot water over them the night before and let them soak all night. In 
the morning or the next evening, they will crack easily and leave most of the 
kernels unbroken. Old-fashioned molasses candy filled full of walnut or pecan 
kernels is a dainty for a king, and all kinds of "fudge" should be filled with nut 
meats. 

Fig Cheese: Take good figs, dip in boiling hot water to soften, flatten and 
split, laying the halves skin down on a slab or tin, sprinkled with powdered 
sugar, inside a tin ring the size and depth of the cheese. Sprinkle the first layer 
thickly with chopped nuts and cover with another layer of split figs, and alternate 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 329 



thus, until the forms are full. Sprinkle with confectioner's sugar, and press the 
cheese under a weighted board over niglit. Vv'hcn served, cut like a pie or tart. 
Nut and Fig Strips: Butter thinly some rolled-out pie crust and strew 
with a paste of equal parts of dried figs and nuts. Cover with a thin crust. 
Cut into strips and bake in a quick oven. 



ARTIFICIAL HONEYS 

People living out on the ranches and farms of the Northwest, where fruit 
is not plentiful, will find these preparations harmless and toothsome: 

Sugar, ten pounds; water, three pounds; Bent's cream of tartar, two ounces, 
or in like proportion. Dissolve the sugar in luke-warm water, add the cream of 
tartar, a wine-glass of vinegar and the well-beaten white of an egg. Continue to 
stir until the sugar is nearly melted, add one-half pound of genuine honey, if 
it can be had, and stir until boiling for a few moments. Take it off and when 
only fairly warm, strain and stir in two tablespoonfuls of extract of rose, or half 
a teaspoonful of white rose or honeysuckle perfume. This is a very fair and 
perfectly harmless imitation of honey. 

Or: Make a syrup of four pounds of sugar and a pint of water; boil and 
add one-fourth ounce powdered alum. When thoroughly dissolved, remove and 
add one-half ounce of cream of tartar, and when nearly cold, a little extract of 
rose or honeysuckle as above. 



ARTIFICIAL JELLIES 

Dissolve in one pint of water one-fourth ounce of alum, and when boiling, 
dissolve four pounds of sugar and strain while hot. When nearly cold, flavor 
to taste with lemon, strawberry, raspberry or any other desired flavor. While 
it is not honest to sell this for "fruit jelly," it is wholesome and palatable, and 
resembles fruit jellies so closely that few can detect the difference. When 
people crave a sauce for their food, these are cheap substitutes for the real thing. 



RHUBARB WINE 

Express the juice from any amount of rhubarb stems, using a clean clothes 
wringer for the purpose. Strain and to each gallon of the clear juice add one 
gallon of water, in which seven pounds of sugar have been dissolved. Let this 
mixture stand in a keg or barrel, laid on the side and unstoppered, keeping it 
filled with sweetened water until it works clear; then bottle or barrel tightly as 
you desire. The wine is a beautiful straw-colored sherry, and is superior to most 
purchased wines. 

Another Recipe: Pour one gallon of boiling water on four pounds of stalks 
cut fine, and four pounds of brown or white sugar, with a little bruised cinnamon, 
allspice, cloves and nutmeg. Cover and let it stand one day, strain, let it work 
until clear and bottle for use. 



330 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

FLOWER SALVE 

Melt together new unsalted butter and clear mutton tallow, one-fourth of a 
pound each, and simmer slowly in the mixture a handful each of leaves of sweet 
clover, live-forever and camomile and the inner bark of sweet elder. When the 
leaves and bark grow crisp, press and strain out the menstruum, and add to it 
enough beeswax to form a thin salve. Spread very thia on thin cloth for burns, 
frost-bites, eczema, heat blisters, etc. If no other ingredient can be had, the 
green inner bark of the elder alono will furnish a most grateful and delicate salve. 



GINGER CORDIAL 

Bruise well one ounce of Jamaica ginger root, and macerate for one week 
in one quart of full-proof chemically pure alcohol, with five grains of cayenne 
pepper and one-fourth ounce of citric acid ; filter or strain well. Add to one gallon 
of boiling water two pounds of white sugar, and when cold, put in the other 
ingredients, strain or filter and bottle for use. Taken hot for a bad cold or 
stomachic pains, it is very effective in easing pain andj)romoting perspiration. 



HONEY CORDIAL 

To one gallon of boiling water add three and a half pounds of honey. Boil 
in a pint of water, the peel of half a lemon, one-fourth ounce of ginger, a bit of 
mace and a few cloves. Strain and add to the ether mixture. When quite cool, 
add a teaspoonful of yeast, and leave the jug uncorked until the fermentation is 
over. Bottle and keep as long as possible before using. 



TO REMOVE GLASS STOPPERS 

Warm the mouth of the bottle, and with a feather brush a little sweet oil 
about the stopper, letting it stand near the fire, and from time to time trying, not 
too harshly, to remove the stopper. When warm, strike the stopper gently with 
a small wooden mallet or ruler, first on one side and then on the other. Add 
more oil from time to time, and continue as before, until the stopper is loosened. 



FIRE-PROOF PAINT 

Take six quarts of slaked lime, one quart of rock salt, four quarts of water, 
boil and skim clean; then dissolve four ounces pulverized alum, two ounces 
sulphate of iron, three ounces potash; add one pound fine sand, or marble dust. 
Add any desired coloring matter, and apply with a brush. It will dry hard, 
stop small leaks and resist any ordinary shower of cinders and brands. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 331 



FREEZING MIXTURE 

Where ice cannot be obtained, water or wine may be cooled by the use of 
freezing powders. The first is composed of one ounce of sal ammonia and two 
ounces of saltpeter, both of which must be finely powdered, intimately mixed, 
and kept in stoppered bottles. The other powder consists of three ounces of 
powdered soda, also kept separately in stoppered bottles. When used, put the 
liquid to be cooled in a glass bottle, wrap it in a woolen cloth, dissolve the two 
powders in just enough cold water to dissolve them, and pour the mixture upon 
the wrapping, placing the bottle in a jar or crock that will contain the bottle, 
wrapping and mixture. A pint and a half of the mixtures and the water in which 
they are dissolved, should cool two bottles of water, wine or milk in the hottest 
weather. 



FRUIT WINES 

Cherries, currants, crooseberries, wild cherries, raspberries, blackberries and 
elderberries make good wines. Express the juice, then pour an equal quantity 
of boiling water on the pressed fruit, let it stand from two to four hours, strain 
and add to the juice. Add one pound of sugar to each quart of juice, and keep 
in unstoppered vessel or barrel, with gauze over the mouth, until it works clear. 
Then bottle or bung for keeping and use. Tomato juice needs no water and 
makes a highly eolored wine. White currants require less sugar, and give a 
very clear and delicate wine. All fruit should be dead ripe and the sugar should 
be added before fermentation. Wild grapes give the best-bodied wines. 



CHEAP PAINT FOR FENCES, ETC. 

Dissolve in four quarts of water one-half pound of sal soda, and when boiling, 
add gradually one pound of gum shellac. When cold this will blend with any 
good paint in equal quantities. Cover surface well, and it will wear well and 
considerably reduce the cost. This was patented years ago, and large sums were 
paid for the right to make and sell it. 

Old paints and paint skins, if soaked in the sal soda and water for two or 
three days, and then boiled and strained, may be restored to good condition, 
adding more oil and drying fluid, if necessary. 



FAINTING FITS 

Loosen all the clothes and lay the patient's head lower than the feet. Where 
men are treated in the public service, they are sometimes simply held up by the 
feet for a few seconds to determine the blood to the head, an effectual, if rough 
remedy. Dash cold water in the face. Hold hartshorn salts to the nostrils. 
A burned feather is sometimes used when this is lacking. A hot bath to the 
feet is also effectual. If persistent, a doctor should be called. 



332 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

EARACHE 

Pains in the ears are frequently the symptoms of nasal or neuralgic troubles, 
which must be cured by regular treatment, regimen and diet. Oftentimes, 
however, simple home remedies will ease or drive away the local pains, and a 
few of these have been proven for generations. Among them are: 

Hot applications to the outer ear include: Flannel bags filled with hot 
salt; hot steeped hops, or camomile flowers; hot water bags, compresses, or 
warm soapstones or irons. 

Applications to the inner ear include: The heart of a roasted onion or fig; 
cotton pledgets wet with a mixture of warmed sweet oil and laudanum, or either 
alone, warm steam or tobacco smoke guided into the ear by a funnel. 

The use of electrical or manual massage is often of benefit when the pain is 
local and of a nervous origin. Rest and warm applications will generally effect 
a cure, and if brought on by cold, the ears should be filled with cotton for a day 
or two to prevent a return. 

CARE OF THE EYES 

It is not well to use eyewaters and crude remedies on such a delicate organ 
as the eye. Cold or warm water, milk or tea may be used to cleanse and soothe 
an ordinary inflammation. Foreign bodies are often removed by overlapping one 
eyelid over the other, or by turning the eyelid inside out over a knitting needle or 
clean toothpick. If the foreign body is not imbedded, it can easily be removed 
with a wet handkerchief or, what is better, a camel's hair paint brush. The tip 
of the tongue is largely used by mechanics, who frequently suffer from small and 
sharp metallic filings, etc. 

When a large factory is near at hand, there will often be found a workman, 
whose constant practice in removing such objects make him more skilful than 
most physicians, even when a sharp particle is imbedded in the eye. 



THE EYELASHES 

If the tips of the eyelashes are carefully trimmed once a month, they will 
grow longer and thicker. 

SWEET PICKLE FOR MEAT 

To each four quarts of water, add one and a half pounds salt, one-half pound 
sugar or molasses, one-half ounce saltpeter, one-half ounce potash, boil together 
and skim off all impurities; then pour into a barrel or vat to cool. Cut up the 
meat, sprinkle lightly with salt and let it stand a day or two before pickling. 
Pack in a barrel or vat and pour tlie pickle over it. Let it stand for four or five 
weeks, turning the meat over once or twice, so that the upper and lower layers 
change places. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 333 



SOFT SOAP 

Take one pound of bar soap and dissolve it by boiling in a gallon of water, 
adding one-fourth pound of sal-soda. When well mixed, pour into a jar and 
let it cool. 



TRANSPARENT TOILET SOAP 

Dissolve in one quart denatured alcohol, three pounds of good soap cut 
into shavings, heat slowly in a tin or copper kettle until dissolved. Add one- 
half ounce of any perfume desired, pour into pans to about the depth of an inch 
and a half, and when cold, cut into squares or pour it into small tin moulds if 
desired. 



CHARRED FENCE POSTS 

If posts are charred at a fire or covered with coal tar, as far as they are to 
be set in the ground, they will defy dry or wet rot for many years. 



TO DESTROY WEEDS 

Slake ten pounds of lime in ten gallons of water, add two pounds of flour 
of sulphur, and boil together in an iron kettle. When cold and s'ettled, draw 
off the clear liquor and sprinkle freely on weedy walks and drives. It will destroy 
all vegetable hfe and for some time prevent its recurrence. 



CLEANING AND POLISHING MIXTURE 

Mix one-eighth ounce of prepared chalk and one ounce of aqua-ammonia, 
and keep closely corked. To clean and polish smooth jewelry apply with a 
cloth, and rub dry with chamois leather or old silk. Use a brush to apply the 
mixture to rough and broken surfaces. Shake well before using. 



BUTTERMILK COSMETIC 

Buttermilk applied often to the hands and face is one of the best and 
safest cosmetics known. It may be warmed but not boiled. If some scraped 
horseradish is added to the buttermilk, the mixture, strained after standing 
eight or ten hours, will remove freckles. Taken as a drink it is good to increase 
flesh, and is of value in kidney complaint. 



334 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

WHITE HOUSE STUCCO WHITEWASH 

This celebrated wash, formerly used on the east end of the President's 
mansion at Washington, D. C, has been known to retain its brilUancy for from 
twenty to thirty years. It is probably, all things considered, the cheapest 
and most effective coloring mixture used on buildings. 

Slake one-half bushel of carefully chosen lime with boiling water, covering 
the tub or box to keep in the steam. Strain the liquid wash, and add one peck 
of salt dissolved in water. Three pounds of rice or rice flour, boiled to a thin 
paste and stirred in boihng hot, one-half pound of Spanish whiting, one pound 
of clean glue, also dissolved. Add five gallons of hot water to the whole, rnix 
well and let it cool and stand for several days, carefully covered from the dirt. 

When used, it must be applied hot, and the main supply kept in a kettle on 
a portable furnace or kerosene stove. It is most effective as a brilliant apd 
glossy white, but may be tinted to suit. 

Coloring matter should be dissolved in denatured alcohol and stirred in 
for the whole job at once. Spanish brown will give a reddish-pink. Yellow 
ochre or chrome yellow give pretty shades of that color. Green does not work 
well, spoiling both the wash and the color. 



TO DRIVE AWAY RATS 

Stop their holes with cement, first putting into their runways Scotch snuff, 
cayenne pepper or wet potash, or leave one or more of the holes open, but treated 
in like manner. They will soon leave the house. 



ANTI-RUST FOR FARM MACHINERY 

Take one pound of fresh tallow, one-half pound of rosin, melt and strain, 
and keep in a jar or tin. Warm and apply a thin coat to machinery, tools, etc., 
when stored for the winter. 



MOTH BAGS 

With two ounces of powdered orris root, mix one ounce each of cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmeg, mace, camphor and caraway seed. Fill little flannel bags and 
place them among the goods to be protected. 



WHISKEY GLUE 

Fill a bottle two-thirds full of good glue with cheap whiskey. Cork tightly 
and set in a moderately warm place for some days. It will not spoil, and is 
always ready for use, although in very cold weather it may be well to set the 
bottle in warm water before using. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAK ERS 335 

FIRE KINDLER 

Melt together any quantity of resin, adding to each pound of resin eight 
ounces of tallow or paraffine wax, and when fluid and hot, stir in as much pine 
sawdust or finely chopped straw as it will take. Pour it out while hot on boards 
covered with sawdust, or on greased sheets of iron, and when cold, cut into inch 
squares, each of which will ignite readily from a match and start any wood fit 
to burn. 



A GOOD WHITEWASH 

Dissolve two ounces of white glue in cold water over night, and pour into 
one gallon of boiling water into which stir four pounds of whiting. When 
thoroughly mixed, add sufficient warm water to thin it properly. Apply with 
a common whitewash brush. 



FARMERS' PAINT 

To four ounces of freshly slaked lime reduced with skim milk to the con- 
sistency of cream, pour the balance of four quarts of skim milk and ten pounds 
of fine whiting. Stir thoroughly to a smooth paint, and apply with a brush. 
It will be found insoluble when dry, and better than white lead paint for outdoor 
use. 



RICE PAINT 

Boil rice or rice flour until a thin gruel is formed. Strain and add to the 
hot solution air-slaked lime pulverized and sifted until a smooth whitewash 
is formed, and add to each four gallons one quart of linseed oil. When cold, 
apply like other paints on outdoor or inside work. It has been used on sea and 
land, and stands the test of time and weather. 



PRAIRIE WHITE PAINT 

Mix your whitewash with skim milk from the separator, instead of water, 
and paint your fences, sheds and barns. After proving this, you will use it 
on your house. The lime makes the cheesy constituents of the milk insoluble 
when dry, giving an extra hardness and gloss to the wash. It may be tinted 
if desired. 



LIQUID GLUE 

Dissolve one ounce of tragacanth in soft water, also three ounces of good 
clean glue; mix and add enough soft water to make six ounces, and stir in one 
ounce of commercial acetic acid. If not thick enough, add a little more glue. 



336 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

POISON ANTIDOTES 

Generally speaking, an emetic should be takeo. The best and most easily 
fprocured is made by mixing two tablespoonfuls of made mustard with a pint of 
•warm water. Tickling the throat with a feather or the fingers will often save 

life, where other emetics are not procurable. Draughts of warm milk or water 

mixed with oil, melted butter or lard are also of service. 

Arsenic: After severe vomiting, administer lime water, chalk and water, 
and, if procurable, the hydrated sequi-oxide of iron. 

Alkalies, Soda, Potash, Ammonia: Give vinegar, lemon or lime juice and 
water, olive oil, almond oil, butter, etc. 

Corrosive Sublimate: Give white of egg and water, milk and cream, decoc- 
tion of cinchona, infusion of galls. 

Sulphate of Copper (Blue Vitriol): Sugar and water, white of egg and 
water. 

Antimony, etc.: Warm milk, gruel and barley water, infusion of galls, 
infusion of cinchona. 

Nitrate of Silver: Drink freely of warm water and salt. 

Sulphate of Zinc: Carbonate of soda in warm milk and water, gruel, flax- 
seed or slippery elm bark tea, etc. 

Acetate of Lead: Emetics, sulphate of soda in water, white of egg and water, 
warm milk. 

Opium, Morphine, Laudanum, Paregoric, etc.: Emetics followed by strong 
black coffee, dashing cold water on the face and breast, forcing patient to walk 
and keep awake, slapping with towel dipped in cold water, electric massage. 

Prussic Acid: Hartshorn and ammonia cautiously held to the nostrils, 
ammonia in repeated small doses in water, small doses of solution of chlorine 
in water, small doses of chloride of lime in water. This subtle and dangerous 
poison may be taken by eating peach pit kernels, drinking Eau de Noyau and 
eating or drinking preparations flavored with synthetic " bitter almonds " or ben- 
zine, which is a most dangerous preparation in the laboratory or the kitchen. 

Strychnine and other Alkaloids : Infusion of gall nuts, decoction of cinchona, 
emetics. 



A LASTING PERFUME 

In one-half pint of alcohol dissolve one drachm of ambergris, one drachm 
of civet, three drachms of oil of lavender, three drachms of oil of bergamot, 
one-fourth ounce of camphor; cork and shake well for ten days, then strain and 
bottle for use. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 337 

TANNING DEER SKINS 

Remove the hair by liming the skin, putting each deer skin in a bucket of 
water in which one quart of hme has been slalced, and let soak three to four days. 
Rinse until clean, scrape off the hair and grain; soak iri clear water to remove 
the gelatine, and scour and pound in good soapsuds for half an hour. Dissolve 
a tablespoonful each of white vitriol, alum and salt for each skin in just enough 
water to cover them, and let them stand for twenty-four hours; wring dry and 
spread on one-half pint of currier's oil, or some fresh butter, and hang in the sun 
for two days. Scour out the oil with soapsuds and dry in the sun; then pull 
and work each skin until it is soft; if not soft the first time, scour out in suds, 
working in yellow ochre with a stiff brush. Sheepskins may be worked in the 
same way. 



HUNTING 

In shooting cranes, swans, geese, ducks plover, etc., it is far better to manage 
so as to have them fly near the gunner than to tramp in search of them and 
chance shots. All birds of passage have favorite haunts or feeding grounds 
at the several points where they alight on their way from North to South in the 
fall, and from South to North in the spring. These should be studied by every 
fowler who expects to vary his food or earn a few dollars by his trusty double- 
barrel. 

A good supply of decoys should be made at odd seasons, and outhne decoys 
are the easiest to make, to carry and handle. Having made a good outline of a 
goose, duck or plover, a dozen of each can be secured and during the winter 
painted like the originals and fitted with pegs or wires for feet. If they are 
painted even approximately like the real bird, they will do good service, but it 
may be said that much better work will be done if the decoys are first painted 
white, and allowed to dry before the next darker color is laid on and shaded into 
the white. The darkest or most pronounced color should be left until the last. 
If it is desirable to have floating decoys, make a triangular grating of wood with 
holes into which the legs of the decoys may fit tightly, and arrange these so that 
they seem to be resting naturally, as a flock lit on the water. 

If there is a point where birds feed, and the wind blows toward it, float the 
decoys near it, or arrange them along its margin and have a natural-looking cover 
or "blind" not further than half-gunshot from the decoys. 

If an expert at " calling," use a call, but if not, let the decoys and the feeding 
ground attract the coming flock, and trust to the wind to sweep them a little 
nearer than they would ordinarily venture. Keep out of sight until at the 
moment of firing, and fire rather farther ahead of your birds than drag on your 
aim and shoot behind them. 

If you find birds already "haunted," don't shoot at them if you intend to 
put your decoys out at that place. Walk up quietly, let them fly away quietly, 
and get ready to receive them when in smaller flocks they fly back again. 

Where black ducks haunt along the Atlantic coast, there are a number of 
small springs and pools near the harbors, to which they fly to drink after feeding 



338 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 



on the flats. By watching at these pools in the fall evenings, many have been 
killed by the expert gunners of the past. One and sometimes two ducks always 
come in first to see if the coast is clear. If these are shot or frightened away, 
there will be no more of their comrades seen that night. The wary old Bayman 
used to keep perfectly still and out of sight until the drakes and their companions 
were gone, and erelong often saw the pool so full of ducks that a score or more 
were killed at a discharge. 

Sandhill cranes are best decoyed amid the cornstalk piles of a great corn- 
field. They are very good eating. Green decoys will do almost anywhere, but 
the best prairie cover is a pit about thirty inches deep and wide by sixty inches 
long, dug in the ground. . 

Grain-eating birds can be fed to advantage by strewmg corn or wheat every 
day at some point easily approached under cover. Many black ducks, mallards 
and teal are thus taken in some locaUties. 



SHEEPSKIN MATS 

Take long-wooled handrana skins and make a strong suds with hot water, 
but do not wash the skins until it is cold, getting out all the dirt in the wool. 
Then wash out the soap yvith clean cold or lukewarm water. They may now be 
dyed with Diamond Dyes or other methods. Dissolve in hot water one-fourth 
pound each of alum and salt for each skin, and pour into a tub containing cold 
water, enough to cover the skins; let them soak twelve hours, drain and dry. 
While still a little damp, sprinkle on the flesh side of each skin about an ounce 
each of saltpeter and alum, rubbing it well in; then lay the flesh sides of two skins 
together and hang in the shade for two or three days until perfectly dry. Then 
scrape the flesh side with a blunt knife and rub it smooth with a piece of pumice 
stone. 



WELL-SET TABLES 

Nothing so pleases one's guests as to be received at a table not only laden 
with good things, but tastefully arranged and originally decorated. Thus a 
Hallowe'en lunch served at a table decorated with tiny peanut owls perched on 
sprays of autumn fohage, lit by bright candles set in pine-cone candlesticks and 
by Jack-o'-lantern imps with pumpkin faces, with napkins stencilled with 
medieval witches, and black cats and wizards glaring at one from the cards and 
favors, is always a source of pleasure and a pleasant memory. 

Thanksgiving suggests a table whose size and array of snowy napery, choice 
china, silver and steel, permits little decoration during the early courses. The 
dining and dessert knives and forks, the spoons and glasses are all in place, a* 
are the spoon ladles, slicers, etc., to be used by the host and hostess. Thi 
Blue Points, daintily iced with a slice of lemon, if served instead of soup, aq 



LITTTE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 339 

already awaiting each guest and the fish comes on in due season, if it comes at 
all at a Thanksgiving dinner. To most of us the great turkey, with his gaily 
colored attendant dishes of celery, turnip, white and sweet potatoes, crisp 
celery and glowing cranberry jelly, leaves little room for special decoration. 
The favors and cards may remind one of old Colonial days, or bear some hearty 
greeting or jovial welcome to enjoyment and good fellowship, and old-fashioned 
flagons, pitchers or dishes may break the ordonnance of modern table equipage; 
but until the dessert comes in, beauty must yield place to the bounty and good 
hving of the day. Then, indeed, ancient candlesticks with shades of autumn 
leaves, low cutglass dishes or high vases with rare flowers, epergnes laden with 
gorgeous fruits, delicious confections and exquisite cakes and tartlets, can make 
up a picture worthy of the day and the era which brings together from the ends 
of the earth the luxuries of every clime. 

The round tables now in use are often set for breakfast with a drawn- 
work cloth, whose corners barely touch the rim of the board. A square serviette 
under each plate is flanked by the napkin and forks on the left, and the spoons, 
etc., on the right. Where there is no maid, the grapefruit or melon is already 
in place, and the hostess serves the coffee, the host serving the cereal and break- 
fast dish in due course. A low glass dish in the centre has a wire mesh cover, 
through which the short stems of the flowers reach the water, allowing great 
taste and originality in their arrangement. 

At a family dinner, the table is fully draped, and a dish of fruit replaces 
the flowers. The soup, vegetables and the dessert are served by the hostess, 
the host carving and serving the other vegetables. 

A luncheon table recently arranged in New York for four guests was crossed 
by two bands of ferns in the centre, of which the flower bowl glowed with colors 
in accord with the color-scheme of the room. On the right of each plate were 
glasses and knives; on the left, the forks and spoons; and the plate bore an un- 
folded serviette and a roll. 

An evening dinner, at which skilled waiters serve every course, is often a 
mass of flowers, epergnes, vases, candlesticks, etc., in the centre, around which 
the plates and their equipage are arranged Uke a converging army, each pushing 
forward into the gUttering maze in the centre, a phalanx of exquisite goblets 
and glasses. Just now it appears that the real artist avoids regularity in his 
central scheme of shape and color as much [as possible, and vases, candelabra 
and gay shades are placed in Mttle coteries here and there. 

A novelty for the Christmas dinner table is made by opening the shells of 
walnuts with a knife, taking out the meats and fastening the shells together 
again after inserting some tiny toy, witty couplet, weird prophecy or the like. 
A httle mucilage fastens them, and a green paper seal at the large end makes it 
impossible to tarnper with them, unless these are torn. Every guest should be 
made to display his or her prize, and the variety of small objects that can be used 
insures lots of fun. 

It is suggested that raisins, figs, dates and other dried fruits when used for 
dessert, should be rinsed in boiling hot water and dried in a napkin before being 
sent to the table, not only for sanitary reasons, but because the lyes, sulphur 
fumes, etc., used to cure the fruit are no addition to the taste of these dainties. 



340 LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 

WINTER ECONOMY AND COMFORT 

In the late fall, it is time to prepare for cold weather, to put on the double 
windows and storm doors, and make other preparations to save fuel and econo- 
mize warmth. Not everyone has the means to furnish the extra windows and 
doors in a home of his own, and many rent houses whose owners will make no 
improvements and few if any repairs. Much may be done with little money to 
make up for these deficiencies. 

To Tighten Old Windows: If the windows rattle in the casing, wedge them 
tightly with pieces of the thin end of a shingle; then procure some strips of 
strong paper to match the paint, an inch and a half to two inches wide. Make 
some flour paste (by the recipe on page 247,) and be sure to have it smooth and 
rather thick. Wet the strips quite thoroughly with the paste, and neatly cover 
every joining between the casing and the inner frame, as well as that at the 
junction of upper and lower frames. Don't tighten all the windows; leave the 
lower or upper half of one for ventilation and airing, but if most of the windows 
of an old house are thus tightened, it will make a great difference in the con- 
sumption of fuel and the amount of comfort secured. 

To Tighten Doors: It is often necessary to go over the doors of a house 
that have swelled, and need a little trimming and shaving to fit properly. Some- 
times the threshold is so worn that a mouse can easily run in and out under the 
door. A new well-fitting sill should be at once put in, and will more than pay 
for itself in coal-saving. When the doors nt loosely, and the housekeeper does 
not feel able to pay for rubber weather strips, she can supply their place with 
various substitutes tacked on the inner edge of the door itself, so that enough 
of the strips of material used is bent in between the door and jamb, when it is 
closed to prevent any draught of air. Very thick woolen cloth, old felt hats and 
boots, strips of sheepskin with the wool on, green baize — any of these may be used 
according to the width and shape of the crack to be closed. There are many 
people who allow the outer doors of a house to become so ill-fitting that it is 
almost impossible to keep the rooms near them warm in a winter storm. Make 
them tight for all winter, and don't wait until a storm comes, and you have to 
put a rug across the threshold to keep the snow out. 

To Bank Up a House: Many people bank up their houses with seaweed, 
sedge, barn refuse, etc., but the best banking is paper. Take good tarred sheath- 
ing paper and fasten the upper edge to the basetaoard of the house, with laths 
and lath nails, allowing the lower ends to bend outward at the ground and fit 
the paper well against the wall, breaking joints well and covering the lower edge 
with sods or earth. If you can build a sod wall against this up to the edge of 
the paper, or pile sand or earth against it, you will have a perfect protection 
against mud or frost, keep your house paint clean and can use the paper for 
several successive years. Any other material may be used for banking, but 
earth or sods is the best. Care should be taken to close up the openings under 
platforms and piazzas; very often there are openings clear under the sills of the 
house that keep the floors cold the winter through. 



LITTLE HELPS FOR HOME-MAKERS 341 

Unfinished Attics: Very often a roomy attic, or even a part of the chamber 
remains unfinished for years, making the house cold and a source of annoyance to 
the housekeeper, who longs for finished rooms, but somehow never feels able to 
afford the cost of finishing them. Where a room is lathed but not plastered, it 
can be nicely finished by pasting the tough mottled building paper used on outside 
walls over the lathing of walls and ceilings. Be sure and use thick strong paste, 
and lay the paper on the table and thoroughly wet it with hot water, taking off 
the excess with a sponge; then paste thickly and fit to the wall, overlapping the 
edges about half an inch. It will dry as smooth and hard as a board, and is 
superior to plaster in a cold or very hot chmate, for it is the poorest conductor 
of heat known. Any wall paper may be put on over it when once thoroughly 
dried, and will look just as well as on the most costly plaster wall. 

Where an attic is unfinished, paste the building paper between the rafters, 
having first stained, painted or covered the rafters to suit the taste. The chim- 
neys and partitions may be papered or painted, and if the rafters run unbroken 
to the roof, finish them to the ridgepole. It is better, however, to have a light 
ceiling thrown across, above the top of the end windows, and to cover this to 
match the rest of the room, which will be as warm as if plastered, and if the 
paste used has a proportion of glue in it and dries thoroughly, will not be greatly 
affected by an ordinary leak. This finish has been proved in the Northwest 
by years of trial by temperature over fifty degrees below freezing and terrible 
blizzards. 



A TIGHT RING 

To remove a tight ring, soap well a thin «ord and beginning where the 
finger is small, bind it closely with the cord until the ring is reached, when the 
end of the cord must be forced under the ring; then unwind the cord by pulling 
at the ring end, and the compression of the flesh and the soaping of its surface, 
will generally allow the ring to pass the joint. 



INDEX 



AIR: to purify, 100. 

ANTI-RUST: for farm machinery, 334. 
ANTS: Black, to get rid of, 124, 160. 
ANTS: Red, 23, 39, 50, 55, 70, 158, 232, 

239, 242, 251, 253, 312. 
ALUMINUM: vessels eaten by salt, 306. 
AMMONIA: uses of, 1. 
AMUSEMENTS: Christmas, 14; probable 

history, 317. 
APPLES: baked, 118; cooked with sweet 

potatoes, 325; baked with cranberries, 

135; sundry dishes, 35; sauces, 31, 

132; substitutes for, 35. 
ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS: 23. 
ARTIFICIAL HONEYS, 329. 
ARTIFICIAL JELLIES, 329. 
ARTISTS: care of brushes, 64; fixative 

for drawings, 153. 

BAKING DEPARTMENT 

BARLEY SCONES: 273. 

BISCUIT: hot, 231; hard, 274; graham, 
36; railroad bread, 233. 

BREAD : brown, 3 1 , 42, 32 1 ; old-fashioned 
273, 308; a short cut, 313; baking, 
124, 140, 391; keeping fresh, 59, 92. 

CAKES: made with water, 63, 74; with- 
out eggs, 76; frosting, 76; to mix with 
freezer, 93; new, 19; fruit, 140; Lady 
Baltimore, 231; cocoa spice, 261; 
cream, 286; to keep, 214, 319; nut, 249; 
Aunt Dinah's recipe, 66; poor man's, 3. 

CRACKERS, 272. 

DOUGHNUTS: light, 98, 260, 314, 320, 
322; with vinegar, 23; to sugar, 40; to 
keep, 3. 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS: to make, 96, 
142; to use, 73; to use in custard, 217. 

FRITTERS: fruit, 274; batter, 325. 

FROSTING: maple sugar, 94; cooked, 
124; for cakes, 213; boiled icing, 50; 
not boiled, 58; to spread, 242, 316; 
54, 134, 320; pure baking powder, 272. 

PIES: apple, 271; blueberry, 160; cus- 
tard, 272; plum, 232; pumpkin, 74, 
231, 242, 266; pumpkin, crustless, 54; 
mock pumpkin, 256; rhubarb, 80, 129; 
syrup, 156, 321; winter, 38; corn- 
starch, 2; fruit, 41; mock cherry, 4; 
buttermilk, 72; banana, 300. 



PIE CRUST: single, 21, 167; double, 
48, 104, 125, 134, 218, 249; soggy, to 
prevent, 70. 

PUDDINGS: Easter, 262; popover, 286; 
Dutch, ten minute, 270; preventing 
burning, 44, 79, 164; mother's, 60; 
mother's sauce, 274. 

BACKGROUND: to save wall paper, 
314. 

BASTING THREADS: to remove, 310. 

BEDBUGS: to extirpate, 8, 279. 

BEE-KEEPING: hints, 154; to separ- 
ate wax, 155. 

BLACKING: to make it waterproof, 12. 

BLEEDING: to stop, 309. 

BUGS AND WORMS: to kill; on 
cucumbers, 84; currant bushes, 325; 
plants, 119, 120. 

BUNNY CLOAK: for baby, 318. 

BURDOCKS: to kill, 94, 243. 

BUTTER: care of milk, 75; substitute 
for, 307. 

BUTTONS: that stay on, 74; to cover, 
241. 

CALENDARS: new from old, 309. 

CAMP RULE: for boiling eggs, 323. 

CANNED GOODS: spoiled, to detect, 
231; peas, to freshen, 29. 

CARBON PAPER: substitute, 255. 

CEMENTS: alum cement, 9; grafting 
wax, 9; equarium, 9; Armenian, 9; 
label, 9; lamp ring, 9; leather, 9; 
Chinese blood, 9; liquid label and 
mouth glues, 9; alabaster, 277; with 
coal ashes, 56; to cork, 17; china, 9, 
217; rice flour, 247; iron cement, 279, 9, 
Japanese rice flour, 279. 

CHARCOAL: uses of, 308. 

CHARRED FENCE POSTS: 333. 

CHEAP PAINTS: farmer's, 335; rice 
335; prairie white, 335. 

CHICKEN CHOLERA: cure for, 105. 

CIDER: sweet, 99, 119. 

CANNING, PRESERVING AND 
PICKLING 

APPLES: to core, 312. 
BEANS: to can, 246, 269. 
BLACKBERRIES: 160. 



INDEX 



CORN: 240. 

FRUIT: to can, 28, 216. 

FRUIT JARS: to seal, 4P 

PEAS: with oranges, 57. 

PIE PLANT: 79, 213, 249. 

STRAWBERRIES: 269, 306. 

TOMATOES: to can, 48, 215, 255; to 

pare, 245. 
USE NEW RUBBERS: 324. 
WINTER VEGETABLES: to can. 99. 

APPLE PICKLES: 316. 

BERRY JAMS: 78. 

CHERRIES: to pit, 310. 

FRUIT BUTTERS: 105. 

GRAPES: spiced. 

JELLIES: 54, 118, 162; rhubarb, 215; 

cordial jellies, 272; to keep, 239, 325; 

to make fresh in winter, 309. 
PEACHES: to stone, 322. 
PRESERVING WHOLE FRUIT: 302. 

PICKLES: 38; in oil, 79; syrup for 
sweet, 96, 123; sweet apple, 239; to 
keep, 255. 

QUINCE HONEY: 263. 

RHUBARB AND FIG SAUCE, 322. 

TOMATO CATSUP, 20, 324. 

CISTERN: a unique, 17. 

CLOTH: thin, to cut, 36; to tell right 

side of, 127. 
CLOVES: value and uses of, 30. 
COLLARS: to make, 92, 126. 

CLEANSING DEPARTMENT 

AMMONIA: uses of, 9. 

AXLE GREASE: 232. 

BATH TUBS: 189. 

BED LINEN: 39, 178, 229. 

BLACK GOODS: 205- 

BLOOD STAINS: 8, 284. 

BOOKS: 174. 

BOTTLES: 240. 

BRASS: 158. 

BROOMS: 174. 

BURNED SAUCEPANS: 7. 

CARPETS: 154, 157, 181; carpet 
sweeper, 28, 46, 168, 183, 261. 

CELLULOID: 261. 

CHIMNEY: 101, 229, 220, 324. 

CLOTHING: 220. 

CLEANING AND POLISHING: mix- 
ture, 333. 



COAL SOOT: 193. 

COFFEE AND TEA POTS: 203. 

COMBS AND BRUSHES: 106, 119. 

DRY CLEANSING: 113. 

DUSTING: with old silk, 166; with 

paint brush, 165. 
ENAMELLED WARE: 64. 
FLUIDS: for cleansing, 77. 
FURS: 236. 

GALVANIZED WARE: 11 
GASOLINE: 242. 
GILT FRAMES: 164. 
GLASS: 169. 
GRATERS: 262. 
GREASE SPOTS: 47, 284. 
HARMLESS CLEANSER: 302. 
HATS: straw, 142; Panama, 61, 169. 
IRON STAINS: 316. 
IVORY: 216. 
KEROSENE: 233. 

KETTLES: 94, 106, 134, 177, 258, 324. 
KID GLOVES: 254, 260. 
KNIFE HANDLES: 234. 
LACES: 79, 117. 
LAMP CHIMNEYS: 176, 258, 310, 324; 

lamp burners, 34, 240, 325. 
LINOLEUM: 117. 
MARBLE: 106, 175. 
MATCH MARKS: to remove, 5 
MILDEW: 26, 27, 241, 284. 
MILK STAINS: 17. 
MIRROR VELVET: 164. 
MUD STAINS: 97. 
NICKEL: 272. 
OIL PAINTINGS: 269. 
PAINT: brushes, 159; stains, 315; to 

remove, 310. 
PATENT LEATHER: 322. 
PEACH STAINS: 5. 
PERSPIRATION STAINS: 78. 
PHOTOGRAPHS: 189. 
PLAYING CARDS: 153. 
RUGS: 241. 
RUSSIA IRON: 221. 
RUST: 250. 

SEWING MACHINES: 105, 240. 
SHELVES: 94. 
SILKS: 115. 

SILVER: 129, 158, 219, 225, 251, 259. 
SOAP: soft, 333; transparent toilet, 333. 
STAINS: sundry to remove, 5, 11. 
STEEL: 224; Steel pens, 185. 
STOVES: 188, 221, 226, 228, 258, 259. 
STRAW MATTING: 64, 155, 174, 221. 
TEA STAINS: 70. 



INDEX 



TIN: 174, 210, 266. 
TRIMMINGS: 38. 
TURPENTINE: uses of, 6. 
TYPEWRITER: 19. 
VELVET: 225, 194, 300, 312. 
WALL PAPER: 96, 218. 
WATER BOTTLES: 230. 
WHITE SINK: 5. 
WINDOWS: 187, 238, 253. 
WITH CHALK: 205. 
WOODWORK: 227, 228, 261. 
WRINGERS: 188. 

COOKING DEPARTMENT 

APPLES: sweet, 232; apple dumpling, 
262; with sweet potatoes, 325. 

BAKING POWDER CANS: uses of, 

BACON: 104, 269; English bacon, 273. 

BEANS: baked, Boston style, 164; with 
olive oil, 75; mustard in, 270; cooked 
quickly, 212, 271. 

BEEF: pot roast, 103; roast, 271; beef 
tongue, 114, 275. 

BISCUITS: 229; biscuits, pan, 245; 
stuffed, 309. 

BREAKFAST FOODS: 100, 306. 

BRIEF SUGGESTIONS: 241. 

BROTH: remove fat, 92. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES: with soda, 307. 

CABBAGE: boiled, 184, 268; digestible, 
73; odorless, 45; to keep, 121. 

CAPE COD: fish chowder, 191; Cape 
Cod sea pie, 192. 

CARROTS: 19, 306. 

CELERY LEAVES: 116, 143. 

CHEESE: chopped, 315; cottage, 122; 
cream cheese, 206; dreams, 32. 

CHERRIES: to stone, 253. 

CHESTNUTS: boiled, 166. 

CHICKEN: boiled, 49; to season, 87; 
oil for salad, 24. 

CHOCOLATE DIP: 57; with corn- 
starch, 116. 

COCOA: 121; quickly made, 141. 

CODFISH BALLS: 115. 

COFFEE: to freshen, 254. 

CORN: cakes, 29; meal, 171; Ken- 
tucky pone, 97. 

CRANBERRIES: 248; to keep, 321. 

CREAM: to whip, 27, 42; to use sour, 
226. 

CROQUETTES: potted tongue, 217. 

CUSTARD: baked, 130; custard, 
curdled, 18. 

DATES: to cleanse, 198; fairy stuffed, 94. 



DUCK: to dress, 35. 
DUMPLINGS: light, 321. 
ECONOMICAL MEAT DISHES: 82. 
EGGS: baked, 137; boiled, 68, 136, 316, 

323; to peel, 3; fried, 142; poached, 8, 

223; for invalids, 142; in dumplings, 

133, 321; pancakes, 271. 
ENGLISH MEAT PIES: 190. 
FINNAN HADDIES: to make, 181. 
FISH: to fry, 273; to scale, 42, 304; 

baked, 300. 
FROSTED ONIONS: to fry, 105. 
FRUIT JAR RUBBERS: use new, 259. 
FURNACE:: to utilize, 18. 
GAME: to choose, 92. 
GRAVY: rich, 80, 222, 264. 
GREASE: substitute, 28; spilled on 

stove, 51, 96. 
GREEN CORN: 268. 
GREENS: to prepare, 313. 
GRIDDLE CAKES: 261, 325. 
HAM: fried and freshened, 53; tender, 

301, 307. 
HASHED MEAT: baked, 4; 193. 
HINTS: general, 68, 114, 161; cooling the 

oven, 133; smoked kettle, 141, 142, 320. 
ICE BILL: to save, 4. 
LARD: scorched, 32; suet substitute, 

43, to keep, 47; to render, 136, 142, 188 
LEMONS: to grate, 316. 
LIVER: fried, 137. 
MADE MUSTARD: 12. 
MAYONNAISE: 248. 
MEAT: to keep fresh, 24, 63, 255, 234; 

dishes, 86; crust for meat pies, 127; 

meat souffles, 226; sweet pickle for, 

332 
MILK, TO TEST: 304. 
MINCEMEATS: crab-apple, 58; tem- 
perance, 91; tomato, 207. 
MUSH: fried, 51, 184, 264. 
NEW DISHES: 6. 
NOODLES: 175. 
NORTHAMPTON OYSTER TOAST: 

191. 
OATMEAL: 106. 
ODORS: to kill, 48. 
OKRA AND TOMATOES: 206. 
OMELETTES: tender, 125, 318. 
ONIONS: to peel, 221; salad, 346. 
PANCAKES: 107, 151, 207; batter, 20; 

oyster, 78. 
PARSNIPS: 299. 
PEPPERS: green baked, 319. 
PINFEATHERS: to remove, 249. 



INDEX 



PORK: to cure, 134, 176, 186; pork 
chops, baked, 25; coating, 6. 

POTATOES: baked, 37, 48, 56, 156, 166, 
168, 206, 264; boiled, 188, 253; browned 
18; cakes, 213; fried in cottolene, 306 
frozen, 101; to keep, 64; mashed, 105 
mealy, 31, 135; salad, 2; soup, 34 
steamed, 218. 

PRUNES: laxative, 90, 130; spiced, 167. 

RADISHES: 150. 

RICE: 204, 239. 

SALAD: 61; winter, 109; Terra Alta, 
211; hot weather, 180; potato, 2. 

SALAD DRESSING: 164, 315; with- 
out oil, 174, 239, 324; for fruit 
salads, 315. 

SANDWICHES: to keep, 29; bread for 
52; picnic, 70; salmon loaf, 216; 
sardine, 190. 

SARDINE TOASTS: 1. 

SAUERKRAUT: 111, 215. 

SAUSAGES: ginger in, 70. 

SCORCHED TASTE: 89, 209. 

SHORTCAKE: 120. 

SHORTENING: 351. 

SOUP: stock, 137, 144; tomato, 15; 
vegetable, 182. 

SOUR FRUIT: 177. 

SQUASH: fried, 77, 91. 

SUETS: 46, 137. 

SUGAR SYRUPS: 31, 49, 131. 

SWEETBREADS: 149. 

SWEET POTATOES: broiled, 270: to 
keep, 63; with apples, 325. 

TAPIOCA: jelly, 161. 

TEA" 255. 

TOMATOES: 185, 324. 

TROUT AND BACON: 195. 

VEGETABLES: to season, 89; wash, 258 

VINEGAR: to make, 59; uses of, 256. 

WITHOUT FIRE: 56. 

WORTH TRYING: 235. 

CONFECTIONERY, ETC. 
APPLE FUDGE: 17. 
CANDIES: Christmas, 84; maple, 263; 

sea foam, 251. 
CORN BALLS: 328. 
ICES, FRUIT OR SHERBET: 288. 
ICE CREAM: pure, 238; strawberry, 288. 
JAM: 7. 

MARSHMALLOWS: 7. 
MOLASSES CANDY: 328. 
NUTS: to crack, 123; nut candy, 328; 

nut and fig strips, 328; fig candy, 328. 



PARFAIT AU CAFE: 272. 
PEACH STONES: to remove, 322. 
PINEAPPLES: 74, 285; to cut, 5, 73, 118. 
SHERBETS: see ICES. 
TURKISH DELIGHT: 38, 130. 
WHITE CANDY: 328. 

HOUSEWORK DEPARTMENT 

AMMONIA: uses, 128. 

APRONS: for washing, 71. 

ASBESTOS: stove covers, 319. 

ASHES: to handle, 154. 

BABY: table for, 248; buttermilk 

for, 255. 
BAG: sunshine, for invalids, 60. 
BASKETS: hanging, 132. 
BASTING CLIPS: 13. 
BATCH OF LITTLE HELPS: 97. 
BATTER: to save, 60. 
BEAD WORK: 7. 

BED: making, 168, 169; gown, 168. 
BEETS: to keep, 126. 
BEVERAGES: cool without ice, 280. 
BIRDS: canaries, etc., 155. 
BLANKETS: to comb, 169. 
BLUING: to test, 22. 
BOILING OVER: to prevent, 44. 
BOOKLETS: dainty, to make, 268. 
BOOKS: care of, 124, 126; shelves, 266, 
BOTTLES: to cut, 114, 271. 
BOWLS, WOODEN: to strengthen, 97 
BOXES: for clippings, 131. 
BRIDE GIFTS: 98. 
BROKEN DISHES: 261. 
BROOM: to cover, 218. 
BUDGET OF HINTS: 170. 
BUTTER MAKING: 141. 
BUTTER: to freshen, 281. 
BUTTONHOLES: 29, 31, 90. 
CAKE: to keep moist, 319. 
CANARY: green food for, 254. 
CATS: to physic, 153. 
CELLARWAY: 168; damp, 59. 
CHAIRS: wire-seated, 25, 74. 
CHAMOIS SKINS: to wash, 94, 115. 
CHICKENS: to water, 169. 
CHIFFON: to tuck, 266. 
CHIMNEY: to clear, 80, 220. 
CHINA: to mend, 24, 53, 114. 
CISTERN: an unique, 17; rainwater, to 

build, 280. 
CLOSET DOOR: as a washstand, 176. 
CLOTHES: to mend, 125; press, more 

room, 260; sprinkler, 38; racks, 117. 



INDEX 



CLOTHES PINS: as apple corers, 312.] 
COAL: to save, 301. 
COAL ASHES: for cleaning, 41. 
COFFEE: should be washed, 171. 
COLLARS: old, uses of, 136. 
COLORS: to set, 243. 
COOKER: The Fairy, 95. 
COOKING: to prepare material for, 90. 
COPPERAS: for plants, 99. 
CORK: to remove, 153. 
CORNMEAL: for cleaning, 165. 
CORNSTARCH: for the hands, 22. 
COUPLES: newly-married, 59. 
COVERS: bed, made of old blankets, 41. 
CRANBERRIES: to keep, 000. 
CRANBERRY WINE: 257. 
CROCHETING: marker, 310. 
CROCKING: to prevent, 218. 
CUCUMBERS: to plant, 302. 
CURCULIO: to drive from plum- 

trees 219. 
CURIOS: to preserve, 104. 
DARNING: cotton hose, 243; dress 

goods, 92; stockings, 67. 
DEODORIZERS: 273, 308, 318; cofifee, 

46. 
DISH-DRAINER: uses of, 89. 
DISH-TOWELS: to keep white, 60. 
DISH-WASHING: 231. 
DOILIES: to pack, 461. 
DOORS: to secure, 156. 
DRESSMAKER'S HOME HINTS: 101; 

dress shields, 29; dresses for growing 

girls, 29. 
DRINKS: eleven for the sick, 282. 
DUSTING: 107, 160, 165. 
DYES: old-fashioned, 326. 
EGGS: frozen, 40, 110; to beat, 102, 

167; tokeep, 24, 125, 308; to save, 116; 

to test, 158; limed, 281; easily 

shelled, 267. 
EMBROIDERY: silks, care of, 287, 322; 

ruffle to apply, 260; to stamp, 268; 

marker, 310. 
ERASER: novel, 175. 
FEATHERS: pillows to wash, 43, 62; to 

handle, 252; to color, 306; comforters, 

2. 
FILE: fine for sharpening, 314; flat in 

side pocket, 320. 
FIRE EXTINGUISHER: 309. 
FIRE KINDLERS: 335. 
FLIES: to kill or drive away, 28, 62, 138, 

146, 220, 256, 320. 
FLOORS: to renovate, 36, 46; to 

polish, 219. 



FLOUR: to test, 22; sacks for cloth- 
ing, 64. 

FLOWERS: artificial to renovate, 34,69, 
307; cut, to keep fresh, 30, 58; arrang- 
ing, 146; hints to growers, 80, 148, 
323; bone and charcoal fertilizers, 147. 

FORAGE: wheat and oat straw, 281. 

FORK: good garden tool, 235. 

FOUNTAIN PEN: to open, 152, 256; 
to fill, 53. 

FREEZING MIXTURES: 331. 

FROSTED: plants, 155; windows, 49. 

FRUIT JARS: to cleanse, 262. 

FUNNEL: 172. 

FURS: care of, 165; mending, 145; 
storing, 44. 

FURNACE HEAT: 155. 

FURNITURE: to dust, 106, 159; to 
make new, 218; to polish, 158, 245; to 
remove scratches and white spots, 27. 

GARRET: false window curtains, 268. 

GASOLENE: to cleanse with, 54; to 
detect in the lamp, 306; to extin- 
guish, 30 . 

GATHERING: new way, 242. 

GLASS: to bore, 67; to draw upon, 269. 

GLASS JARS: for food, 214. 

GLASS STOPPERS: to remove, 330. 

GLOVES: tinted, to cleanse, 55; long, 
to save, 67. 

GLUE: dry, to soften, 45; to keep 
sweet, 104, 107; with with whiskey, 
334; liquid, 335. 

GOLD PAINT: 300. 

GRANITE WARE: to mend, 104, 107. 

GRAPES: to keep, 2, 255. 

GRAPE FRUIT WATER: to make, 258. 

GRATER: to make, 33, 331. 

GREEN VEGETABLES: to keep fresh, 
73, 74. 

GUESTS: to keep book of, 35; unex- 
pected, to provide against, 18. 

HAMMOCK: home-made, 162. 

HARD WATER: to soften, 129. 

HARDWOOD FLOORS: 268. 

HENS: to set in mid-summer, 92, 101; 
nuts as food, 100. 

HOLDERS: twine, 50; ticking, 100; 
handy, 247, 312. 

HORSE RADISH: to plant, 313. 

HOSIERY: 36. 

HOT DISH: to remove from oilcloth, 
319. 

HOT WATER: without a range, 256; 
bottles, leaky, to use, to fill properly, 
171. 



6 



INDEX 



HOUSE-PLANTS: to protect, 88; pur- 
chase, 108; drive away insects, 78; 
raise slips, 42. 
ICE: to prepare for invalids, 106. 
ICES: see CONFECTIONERY. 
INSECTS: to kill, 42; on smoked 

meats, 55. 
JELLY BAGS: to preserve, 258. 
KEROSENE: lamps, safety, 81, 87; to 
clean, 83, 87; uses of, 86; cure for 
toothache, 88; fire to extinguish, 18. 
KITCHEN: hints, 134; rugs, 321; shears, 
uses of, 60; table to cover, 103; work 
stool, 113. 
LABELS: to paste on tin, 000. 
LACES: to color ecru, 62; insertion, 122. 
LAMP: wicks to trim, 17; to prevent 
smoking, 76, 163, 325; chimney, to 
mend, 2. 
LAWN BORDER: 123. 
LEAD PIPE: leaks, to stop, 22, 122. 
LEMONS: boiled, 91; dried to freshen, 
131; heat before using, 36; uses of, 8, 
116. 
LETTER: to seal securely, 152. 
LETTUCE: to keep fresh, 232. 
LIGHT: reflected, 145; white light, 145; 

cheap reflector, 145; night light, 125. 
MAGAZINE BOOKLETS: 263. 
MAGNETS: to pick up tacks, etc., 48. 
MATS: felt, 26. 
MATTRESSES: to preserve, 33; to 

handle, 49; pads for, 311. 
MEDICINE: to drop, 19; glass covers 

for, 247. 
MENDING: coat lining, 239; gloves, 47; 
overalls, 321; stockings, 126; clothes 
wringer, 267. 
MICE: to drive away, 157. 
MILK: to detect chalk in, 112; to keep, 3, 
63; to scald, 23; to prevent scorching,30. 
MIRRORS: spoiled by sun, 159. 
MITTENS: looped, 127; for numb- 
ness, 112. 
MOSQUITOES: to drive away, 120, 152; 

chair for invalid, 51. 
MOTHS: to exterminate, 107; in car- 
pets, 250; mothballs, 317; salt for, 304. 
MOTH BALLS: to make, 334. 
NAILS: to drive easily, 129. 
NASTURTIUMS: to promote flower- 
ing, 322. 
NEEDLES: to thread easily, 35, 91; 

to prevent rusting, 91. 
NERVES: tired to rest, 37 



NEWSPAPERS FOR PRESSING: 306. 

NEW WORDS: to teach children, 138. 

NEW WRINKLES: 267. 

NIGHT LAMP: 3. 

NUTMEG GRATER: new uses, 176. 

ODORS: to remove, 103. 

OILCLOTH: apron, 52; to mend, 94; 

table mat, 71; wall pocket, 71. 
OLD CLOTHES: uses, 307. 
ONIONS: eat parsley with, 31; to de- 
odorize, 257. 
OVEN: to heat quickly, 122. 
OYSTER SHELLS: in kettles, 311. 
PADS: blotting paper, 214. 
PAINT: white to clean, 47; brushes to 

clean, 53. 
PALETTE KNIFE: uses in the kitchen, 

247. 
PANCAKES: turner for, 240. 
PANTRY SHELVES: to make, 244. 
PASTES: to make, 11, 37, 71, 156, 247. 
PASTILLES: to make, 18. 
PATENT LEATHER: care of, 128, 129. 
PEPPERS: ornamental, 315. 
PHOTOGRAPHS: to preserve, 72; 

paste for, 120. 
PIANO: to clean, 254. 
PIN CUSHION: to recover needles 

from, 251. 
PLASTER CRACKS: to mend, 10. 
PORCH: wind-break for, 315. 
POTATOES: to keep, 314; for sweeping, 3. 
POCKET: flat inside, 320. 
PUMP: to prevent freezing, 300. 
QUASSIA CHIPS: for insects, 42. 
RAINCOAT: buttons for, 244. 
RATS: to drive away, 283, 334. 
RIBBONS: child's, to secure, 147; to 

renovate, 110. 
REFRIGERATOR: cheap, 161. 
RESTAURANT: making home a, 65. 
RIPE FRUITS: to keep fresh, 283. 
ROACHES: to drive away, 251. 
RUBBER BOOTS: to dry, 98; 168, 313; 

to mend, 219. 
RUGS: to prevent "creeping" of, 61. 
RUST: to prevent, 77, 111; to remove, 

131; in water pail, 152. 
RUSTY SCREWS: to loosen, 131. 
SAFETY PIN: use as bodkin, 244. 
SAFETY RAZOR: blade utilized, 171, 

266. 
SALT: old sacks used, 140; water baths, 
32; cellars to fill, 70; rice in, 139; 
starch in, 267; excess corrected, 234. 



INDEX 



SALTPETER PAPER: to make, 41. 
SANDPAPER: for rust, 252; shiny 

cloth, 321. 
SASH CURTAIN RODS: 174. 
SAVINGS: roast meat drippings, 57; 
pjtato i>aiings for fuel, 257; soap 
scraps, 40, lOS. 
SCISSORS: to sharpen, ■■"". 
SCREENS: to make convenient, ITtJ, 

323; to save, 302. 
SCRUBBING BRUSH: new uses, 24, 33. 
SEWING MACHINE: 171, 176; hints 

on using, 78; to cleanse, 303. 
SHEARS: use, 236. 
SHEEPSKIN MATS: 10, 338. 
SHIRT WAIST: belt, 250. 
SHOES: to stretch, 27, 50, 72, 162; ties 
98, 154; soles to preserve, 33, 116 
rough to line, 21; to soften, 24, 69 
slippery, 155; renovate, 216, 254 
tight, 251; to waterproof, 323. 
SINK: to clean, 97. 
SKIRT: to hang, 324. 
SLIPPERS: to keep in place, 325. 
SOAP: hovisehold, 62; improves with 
age, 88; perfumed, 195; saver, 313; 
substitute for, 47; to cut, 70; honae 
made, 13. 
SODA: in gruel, 38; for cut flowers, 303. 
SPECTACLES: to clean, 20. 
STARCH: 28, 160; cold, 35; dark 
lawns, 303, 1.59; soap in, 213; on fringed 
goods, 174; black dresses, 7. 
STOCKINGS: long wear, 50; fast black, 
16.5; to join, 215; uses for old, 34; to 
save, 301. 
STORM DOORS: substitutes. 
STOVE: fine polish, 129, 261; with 

coffee, 58; to black pipe, 57. 
STOVEPIPE: to fit, 171. 
STRAINER: to clean, 268. 
STRAWBERRIES: government dis- 
tribution, 133. 
SUGGESTIONS: 120, 323. 
TABLE SYRUP: 19; hygienic, 39. 
TEA: punch, cold, 34; stains, to prevent, 

70. 
THIMBLE: loose, tightened, 220. 
TIGHT COVERS: to remove, 214. 
TINWARE: to keep from rusting, 14. 
TOWELS: rings for, 258. 
TRIMMINGS: handmade, 319. 
UMBRELLAS: to mend, 265. 
VEIL: to keep daintv, 56. 
WALL PAPER: mate, 245. 



WALL POCKETS: for stove covers, 27. 

WALNUTS: to hull, 14, 50. 

WARE: enamelled, to repair, 32. 

WATER-CRESS: a tonic, 48. 

WELL-SET TABLES, 338. 

WHITEWASH: to paper over, 100. 

WINDOW GARDEN: December work 
in, 83. 

WINDOW SCREENS: 325; painted 
white, 323. 

WINDOW SLIADES: renovated, 215. 

WINTER ECONOMY: 340. 

WOOD-BOX: made of nail-keg, 307. 

WORSTEDS: worn smooth, to reno- 
vate, 321. 

WRINKLED SILKS: to fre.shen, 315. 

HUNTING: 337, 338. 

LAUNDRY DEPARTMENT 

BEESWAX: substitute for, 322. 
BLANKETS: colored to wash, 303, 316; 

to comb, 161. 
BLUE GOODS: to wash, 26. 
BLUING: to use, 322. 
CLOTHES: easily folded, 161; men's, 

to wash, 316. 
COLD STARCHING: 127, 213. 
COLORS: to restore, 28; to set, 26, 268; 

delicate colored fabric, 89, 244. 
CURTAINS: lace to wash, 21, 26, 57, 235. 
FINE GOODS: to wash, 143. 
HANDKERCHIEFS: to bleach, 26; to 

wash, 69. 
IRONING: 20, 116, 213, 267. 
LAUNDRY HINTS: 101. 
SKIRTS: to wash, 168; to dry, 93; to 

hang up, 157. 
SPRINKLING: with hose, 2. 
STAINS, TO REMOVE: blood, 284; 

grass, 248; iodine, 43; ink, 10; 110, 

251; in colored clothes, 216; oil, 285; 

paint, 243, 285; perspiration, 78; rust, 

23, 139, 285, 316; scorching, 1.59, 248, 

314; table linen, 233, 284; tar, 234. 
STARCH: to dry, 320. 
STARCH: wax in, 323; thin waist, to 

starch, 37. 
STOCKINGS: to dry, 323. 
SUNBONNETS: to dry, 320. 
WASHING: dress, to make, 39; fluid, 

102; evening shawls, 127; linen, 49; 

to lustre, 91; new process, 33; silks, 

132; white silks, 124; stockings, to 

dry, 323; sunbonnet, to dry, 323; 

sundry points, 115, 319. 



INDEX 



WHITE FABRICS: to prevent yellow- 
ing, 175. 

KID GLOVES: to remove spots on, 259. 
LEATHER: to glue to metal, 245. 
LIGHTNING PAPER: to make, 276. 
LIME: to burn, 281. 
MANURE: made of bones, 281. 
MORTAR: mouse-proof, 311. 
MOUSETRAP: 311. 
MUCILAGE: to remove spots on, 245. 

PHARMACY AT HOME 

COMMON SIMPLES: sassafras, dog- 
wood, thoroughwort or boneset, willow 
bark, pennyroyal, tulip-tree bark, oak 
bark, nutmeg, cinnamon, white pine 
bark, persimmon, sumach, buckeye or 
horse-chestnut, creeping cucumbers, 89. 
snake root, magnolia, dill, wild indigo, 
Irish moss. New Jersey tea, mullein, 
marsh rosemary, sweet giun tree, 
golden seal, pond lily root, hops, hawk- 
weed, 290. 

CORDIALS: ginger, 330; honey, 330 . 

DECOCTIONS: how made, 282. 

DEODORIZERS: 273. 

DRINKS FOR THE SICK: 282. 

ESSENCES: how made, 283. 

FAMILY HERBALIST, GARDEN 
REMEDIES: carrot, turnip, onion, 
melon and melon seeds, pumpkin seeds, 
cress, strawberry leaves, sorrel, sage, 
blackberry (fruit and root), raspberry 
(fruit and leaves ), quince seeds, spear- 
mint, peppermint, parsley, lettuce, 
horse radish, figs, dates, prunes, 287 
to 288. 

FLOWER SALVE: 330. 

HOME EXPERIMENTS: 266. 

KNITTING: to keep clean, 269. 

POULTRY: food, 314. 

PRIMROSES: to bloom, 321. 

REMEDIES 

ACHING FINGERS: 142. 
ANT STINGS: 254. 
APPENDICITIS: 175, 228. 
ASTHMA: 37, 127. 
BACKACHE: 53. 
BARLEY WATER: 273. 
BED SORES: 44, 151. 
BED WETTING: 188. 
BLEEDING: 274. 



BOILS: 70. 

BRAN BAG: 55. 

BREATHING: difficult, 56. 

BRUISES: 236, 275; . 

BUNIONS: 236, 275. 

BURNS: 34, 58, SO, 107, 115, 173, 288; 

alum, 48; egg, 68, 284, 275. 
CAMPHOR LINIMENT: 282. 
CAMPHORATED SOAP LINIMENT: 

283 
CANCER: violet leaves for, 122. 
CANKER SORES: 44, 103, 130, 264, 284. 
CAR SICKNESS: 227. 
CARE OF INVALIDS: 270. 
CASTOR OIL: to take, 24, 217, 224, 

244; substitute for, 312. 
CATARRH: inhalants, 100, 220; Ger- 
man cure, 115. 
CERATE: resin, 283. 
CHAPPED HANDS: 140. 
CHIGGER OR CHEGO BITES: 324. 
CHILBLAINS: 22, 248. 
CHOKING: 21. 
COLDS: 141, 162, 234; glycerine for, 

252; to prevent, 207. 
COLIC: catnip tea for, 68. 
COMPOUND WINE OF GOLDEN 

SEAL, 284. 
CONSTIPATION: 53, 169. 
CONSUMPTION: 77. 
CORNS: 43, 131, 142, 216, 254. 
COUGHS: 173; Hot water, 37; syrup, 

46, 62, 178; horses, 10. 
CRACKED FINGERS: 250. 
CRAMPS: 27, 178, 260, 268. 
CROUP: 61, 67, 159; membranous, 22; 

liniment, 44. 
DANDRUFF: 52. 
DEAFNESS: 234. 

DIGESTION: weak, 25, 179, 236, 322. 
DIPHTHERIA: Russian government 

cure, 1, 234. 
DYSPEPSIA: old remedy, 44. 
EARACHE: 62, 117, 244, 332. 
ERYSIPELAS: cranberrv, 227. 
ESSENTIAL OILS: to make, 102; care 

of, 332. 
EYES: object in, 36, 101; aching, 264. 
FAINTING FITS: 331. 
FELON: to prevent, 67. 
FEVER: 235; thirst in, 51. 
FLESH: to gain, 302. 
FOREIGN BODY: in nostril, 158; in 

throat, 138. 
FROSTED LIMBS: 43, 329. 



INDEX 



GOITRE: 252. 

GYPSY MOTH POISON: 183. 

HAIR TONIC: 245. 

HAY FEVER: 243. 

HEADACHE: 123, 167, 173. 

HEMORRHAGE: cut, 262. 

HICCOUGH: 61, 62, 104, 126, 160, 

220, 227. 
HOT WATER CURE: 172, 173. 
INFLAMMATION: 178. 
INGROWING NAILS: 36, 318. 
INSOMNIA: 53, 61, 263, 304. 
IVY POISON: 119, 167, 221, 229, 246. 
JAUNDICE: 47, 67. 
KEROSENE: : antidote, 46. 
LA GRIPPE: 63, 265. 
LOCKJAW: 32, 41. 
MALARIA: 125. 
NERVE TONIC: 241, 304. 
NEURALGIA: 163. 
NURSING MOTHERS: 179. 
PERSPIRATION: feet, 207; body, 225, 

250. 
PILLS: to swallow, 270. 
PIMPLES: 42. 
PLASTERS: 221. 
POISON: general antidote, 6, 336. 
POWDER BURNS: 172. 
POWDERS: to take, 250. 
PRICKLY HEAT: 264, 314. 
PUNCTURED WOUNDS: nails, etc., 

75, 76, 163. 
RHEUMATISM: 138, 150. 
RUN-AROUND: 67, 80. 
SALVE: 253. 

SEASICKNESS: 48, 122, 2.56. 
SICK HEADACHE: 35, 19; beverage 

for, 19. 
SIMPLE REMEDIES: 129. 
SLEEPLESSNESS: 7. 
SLIPPERY ELM BARK SALVE: 320. 
SNAKE BITE: 184, 238, 326. 
SNEEZING: to prevent, 147, 207. 
SORE JOINTS: 27. 
SPLINTERS: to remove, 106. 
SPRAINS AND BRUISES: 24, 37, 52, 

249 253. 
SUFFOCATION: 276. 
TEETHING: 169. 
TIRED FEET: 8 
TONIC: 233. 

TONSILITIS: 43, 178, 179, 228. 
TOOTHACHE: 228. 
TUBERCULOSIS: 151. 
VOICE: weakness of, 249. 



WARTS: 217. 
W^EAK EYES: 68. 
WHOOPING COUGH: 
WOUNDS: 242. 

PYROTECHNIC DEPARTMENT 

BENGAL LIGHTS: to make, 277. 

COLORED TORCHES: 278. 

CRIMSON FIRES: 278. 

DISPLAYS: 277. 

GREEN FIRES: 278. 

JAPANESE PARLOR FIREWORKS; 

279. 
RED FIRES: 278. 
ROCKETS: to fire safely, 277. 
SALUTES: 278. 
SKATING CARNIVAL: 279. 

PAINTS: fireproof, 330; cheap !f or fences, 

331. 
PLANTING CUCUMBERS: 312. 
PLASTER ADHESIVE: for mending 

books, 219. 
POTATOES: to keep from sprouting 5. 
PRIMROSES: to bloom, 321. 
PRIVATE THEATRICALS: 29.5, 296, 

297. 
PUTTY: to soften, 17. 
RAINFALL: estimate of, 286. 
ROSES: to keep fresh, 31; to revive, 

75, 307; to propagate, 96, 176; to 

kill bugs on, 128. 
ROUGH CARPENTERING: 12. 
SALT: new use for, 246. 
SCREEN: for cylinder stove, 240; lamp, 

318; bath window, 323; to be painted 

white, 323. 
SEEDS: to start quickly, 265. 
SHADOW EMBROIDERY: to iron, 45. 
SHAWX, TWO-COLOR: to knit, 278. 
SHOE SOLES: to waterproof, 78. 
SILK: underwear, to wash, 76; to sew, 

106; to keep wliite, 175; to cleanse 

and preserve, 19, 132. 
SKIRTS: braid for, 30; to prevent 

sagging, 2.59. 
STAINS, TO REMOVE: copying ink, 

285; grease, 284; ink, 10, 210, 251, 

285; on colored goods, 216. 
STOCKINGS: old, uses for, 272. 
STRAW HATS: to cleanse, 52; to 

dye, 160. 
SUGAR: in teapot, 220. 
SUIT CASE COVER: 325. 



10 



INDEX 



SYMPATHETIC INKS: 266. 
TANNING: deerskins, 331. 
TANKS: to estimate contents, 286. 
TREES: to save from mice, 280. 

TOILET AND TOILET ARTICLES 

BABY SHAMPOO: 166. 

BAKING SODA: 68. 

BATH: 238; bags, 217. 

BELT: to keep in place, 18, 165. 

BLACKING FLUID: 304. 

BUTTERMILK COSMETIC: 333. 

COLOGNE: homemade, 280. 

DEODORIZER: 318. 

DENTIFRICE: 317. 

EYEGLASS: 247. 

EYELASHES: care of, 332. 

FACE WASH: 217, 250, 271. 

FEET: blisters, to relieve, and pre- 
vent, 74. 

HAIR: to curl, 261; receipts, 24, 233, 
252; tonic, 245, 250, 260; Indian 
wash, 20. 

HANDS: care of, 31, 89, 117, 159, 250, 
314; lotion, 263; use of vinegar, 
.309, 312. 

JEWELRY: care of, 152, 153. 

NAILS: to soften, 232. 

PERFUME BAGS: 30. 



PERFUME: lasting, 336. 
PERSPIRATION: 234,250. 
TEETH: to preserve, 87; to cleanse, 257. 
TIGHT RING: to remove, 341. 
TOILET WATER: 217. 
TOOTH POWDER: 317. 

UDDER,: cows to relieve, 40. 

UMBRELLA HANDLES: to mend, 242. 

WAISTS: to measure, 25; to use old, 249. 

WALKING SKIRT: to get length, 214. 

WASHING: see LAUNDRY. 

WATCH: to clean, 97, 119, 316. 

WATER: to test for purity, 11; to in- 
crease flow, 11; to cleanse in wells, lo; 
in cisterns, 13. 

WATERPROOF BLACKING: 12. 

WATERPROOF CLOTHING: 12. 

WEEDS: to kill, 123, 33. 

WESTERN WIFE: a poem, 84. 

WHALEBONE: to cut easily, 51. 

WHIPPED CREAM: 253. 

WHITE HOUSE DAINTY: 267. 

WHITE HOUSE STUCCO WHITE- 
WASH: 334. 

WINE: rhuburb, 329; fruit, 331. 

WHITEWASH: 11; for barns and sheds, 
11, 299; good, 335. 

WORMS, EARTH: to drive away, 58; 
to collect for bait, 61 ; currant, 325. 



DEC 24 1909 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 
DEC 30 1309 



