
coa'iuna world print 



IF YOU GET IT AT HEWSON'S YOU 
CAN DEPEND ON IT. 



When you want the very best of 
quality, the latest in style, and at the 
lowest price for anything in Dry 
Goods and Millinery, then go to 

Hewsoe 



If it is DRESS MATERIALS, you 
will find the newest weaves and 
proper colourings there. 

If it is HOUSE LINEN,they have 
the best makes and nicest finish — the 
kind that v^ears best and looks vv-ell 
every time it is laundricd. 

If it is HOSIERY OR UNDER- 
WEAR, you can depend on it wear- 
ing longer. If it is only a Paper of 
Needles you want, you will get 
what you can depend on. 

If it is MILLINERY, you can de- 
pend on the style, and it always has 
that distinctive look of City Made 
you desire. 



t 



'IJ.HEWSON 




CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH 
COBOURG, ONT. 



THE COBOURG 

CO N GRE GAT I O N AL 

COOK BOOK. 



jT^^SlS.s'H^ 



A Selection of Tested Recipes compiled by the 

Ladies' Aid of the Cobourg Congregational 

Church, Cobourg, Ont., 1909, and 

contributed by the Ladies of the 

Congregation and friends. 



4?^^^^ (i^.s'^^ 



The Ladies' Aid desire to thank all kind con' 
tributors whose generosity has been the means of 
making their undertaking a success. 



High Glass Photographs. 



Wedding Groups. Afternoon Tens, 
Lawn Parties, and all Open Air Fiinc- 
tious. Photos from $1 np to $15. 

Complete line of Eastman's Ko- 
daks and Supplies. 

The Huston Studi( 

(X)BOrHG. 



AT OUR BEST. 

You'll finJ us at our best just now with 
the finest asssortment of reallv distinctive 
Suits and OvcrcoMts ever offered ready- 
to-wear. They are the product of sc-ieii- 
tific organization, highly developed and 
specialize i, with the assurance of style 
and qualiiv with everything thev turn 
out. It is l)ecause of this we rcconiiuend 
L'Oth CVnturv Clothing. MINAKER & CO. 



SINCE 1885 

WE HAVE HANDLED 
NOTHING BUT 

FIRST-CLASS MEATS 



We have been the envy of a lot of 
our opposition on that account, 
which is the greatest compliment 
they could pay us. Plenty to imitate. 
None to equal 

THE OLD RELIABLE 

YI. J. MAKER 

Division-St., Cobourg 



SOUPS. 



SOUPS. 

"One morning in the garden bed, 
The Onion and the Carrot said 

Unto the par.siey gronp : 
Oh ! When shall we three meet again, 
In thunder, lightnmg, liail or rain? 
Alas, replied in toi.es of pain 

The Parsley, — "In the soup." 

CORN SOUP. 

1 can corn, 1 quart milk, salt, pepper and butter, 
thickened with one egg and 2 tahlespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, heat all together and strain. — Mrs, William 
Blanchard. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Stew tomatoes until well cooked, strain and add 
a little soda and boil again, then add milk, pepper 
and salt, a little butter, boil again and serve with 
crackers. — Mrs. Service. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Put 4 sticks of macaroni with 1 tablespoonful of 
butter and 1 onion, boil until the macaroni is tender, 
when done drain and pour over it 2 qts. of good stock 
Place the pan on the fire to simmer for about 10 min- 
utes wfitching lest it should break or become bulky. 
A little grated cheese improves it. — Mrs. Blanchard. 

CREAM SOUPS. 

Cream of green peas, string beans, corn, aspara- 
gus, and celery. These soups are very delicate and 
are much esteemed. Thev are all made the same way. 
The vegetable is boiled until soft and is then pressed 
through a sieve. A pint of the vegetable pulp is di- 
luted with a quart of stock. The stock may be of 
veal, beef or chicken broth. It is thickened with a 
roux nsade of one tablespoonful of butter and two ta- 
blespoons of flour, seasoned with pepper and salt, and 
then strained again so it will be perfectly smooth. 
Replace on fire, add a cup or a half of cream, the 
whole to be beaten with an egp-whip to make it light. 
Serve very hot. — Mrs. Frederick Field. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Boil and mash three or four potatoes. Make a 
roux of one tablespoon of butter, halt tablespoon of 
flour, one teaspoon of chopped onion, letting the on- 
ion cook in the butter a few minutes before adding the 



4 SOUPS. 

Hour. Wlien the loux is cooked add to it tlie mashed 
|)otato and pass the whole throngli a strainer. Re- 
turn it to the fire for a few niinntes to heat and Mend 
11. Season with pepper and salt. Sprinkle on the 
soup when it is in the tureen, a teaspoonful of chop- 
j>ed parsley and a few croutons. If soup is too thick, 
add a little n)ore milk or hot water. The soup can he 
made rifdier hy using more milk and stirring into it. 
just hefore serving, the heaten yolks of two eggs. 
This soup may also be made of sweet potatoes — Mrs. 
Frederick Field. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Shell 1 qt. green peas, cover with water, boil till 
tendei', pour into colander and mash through with 
masher, then add '.i pts. milk and 1 pt. cream (sweet), 
butter the size of an egg, salt anrl pepper to taste, lei 
it come to a boil and serve. ^.Mrs. M. Fisher. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Put 1 qt. can of tomatoes in stew kettle, let come 
to a boil, add 1 heaping teaspoon baking soda, strain 
through a sieve to remove seeds, put i)ack on stove 
and add 2 qts. sweet milk, 1 tablespoon of corn starch 
2 oz butter, pepper and salt to taste, let it come to a 
boil and serve with celei'y. — Mrs. M. Fisher. 

RICE & TOMATO SOUP. 

Use one can or its equivalent in fresh tomatoes, /, 
of cupful of rice, a large onion, a large slice of carrot, 
I ([t. of water,.'J tablespoons of butter,^ teaspoons salt, 
h teaspoon pepper, 2 tablespoons flour. Cut the onir>n 
and c.irrot very fine and put into a sn)all frying jian 
with the butter, cook slowly for 20 minutes. Put the 
tomato and cjt. of water into a slew pai} and bring to 
a noil, skim the vegetables from ihe butter and add 
them to the tomato ;ind water, put Hour with the but- 
ter remaining in t he pan and cool until smooth and 
frothy stilling all the while, then add the mixture in 
the stew pan and set the pan where its contents will 
suniner for half iiv. Iiour. Then ivil) this mixture 
t hroiigh a sieve pressing everything through exrcpt 
seeds and skins. Wash the rice an(l put it in the soup 
pot pouring the slraim-d mixluie over tlie rice. Add 
the salt and p'-ppi-r and set the pot wliere its contents 
will cook slowlv for 1 hour. Stir several times to 
prevent scotching." The Misses Battell. 



FISH. 



FISH. 

THE SILVERY FISH. 

"Gi'iizing at large in meadows, sub-iiiaiine, 
Fresh from the wave, now cheers 
Our festive bo.ud." 

SALMON LOAF. 

Tin sahiion, ciip bread crumbs, -\ cup milk. 2 eggs, 
juice of half a lemon, A teaspoon mustard, salt, 1 tea- 
spoon paislev or celery. Steam 1 hour. — Mrs. A. F. 
Pollock. 

BANKED SALMON. 

Place a can of salmon after opening in hot water, 
let in remain until heated thi'ongh, peel and quarter (i 
potatoes, when boiled add 1 tablespoon of butter, sea- 
son with salt and dash of peppei-, and milk or cx'eam 
to moisten, mash and beat with a fork till light and 
creamJ^ While potatoes are boiling prepare a white 
sauce as follows— (Heac 1 pt. of mUk, melt in sauce 
pan 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons (scant) flotir 
and one quarter of the hot n)ilk, and stir vigorously 
till the mixture is smooth, the remainder of the milk 
may be added gradually until all is smoothly blended, 
season wi^h i teaspoon salt and | teaspoon white jiep- 
per). Drain the licjuor from the salmon, break it into 
Hakes with a foi-k and arrange in the centre of a plat- 
ter, heap the hot mashed potatoes around the salmon 
and pour over all the white sauce, garnish edges of 
platter with bits of parsley. — Eva Battell. 



GO TO GROZIKR 

THE GROCER 

For First'Class Cooking Materials, 
Fruits, Vegetables, and Fish of ail 
Kinds. 

?:>o'X„^1r"'- H. CROZIER 



FISH. 



SALMON LOAF. 

Drain liiinid fi'om one cm salmon. Airangt* it 
alternately in a poicelain disii with cracker citnnb^^, 
having the ciacker on top. Pour ovei* this one cup 
of hot milk 1 tahlespoonfiil hntter, little salt added 
to milk. Bake till a golden hrown. l-^ieshened Fin- 
iian-Had<lie is als.) nice prepaied this way.- .Mis. 
Ilavden. 

FISFI BALLS. 

One package cod fish, ecpial (jnantities mashed 
l)otatoes. a dash of pejipei-, form into i)alls. roll in egg 
and Iry in deep lard. — Mrs. \Vn). Blanchard. 

BAKED FISH. 

.Make a dressing of hread crnnihs, two tablespoons 
of t:iinceci onions.a little butter, pepper and salt, some 
i"ho|>ped parsley, a lieaten egg. -Slnff fish and sew 
securely, place in i)an with hot water, cover with 
slices of ]K)rk, l);iste frecpiently while baking. -'J'ot- 
tenham Cook Book. 



14stnbHshf^ tS31. 



)lfsCSalliz7Tt Ah ^%ons 



'^{ 






FISH. 



COOKED EELS. 

Skin and cut in pieces 3 inches long, boil ?j hour in 
hntter milk to remove tlie rich flavor and inuddv 
taste, roll in egg and bread crninbs and fry a nice 
brown. Serve while hot. Delicious.— Mrs. M. Fisher. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Sprinkle grat'^d crackei's <»r dry bread crumbs, if 
preferred, on bottom of dish. Upon these place a lay- 
er of oysters, then anolhei- layer of crumbs, another 
of oysters until you have the desired quantity. Put 
on the top a libera! {[iiantity of lumps of butter, sea- 
son to taste with salt and i)epper. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven, serving while hot.— Mrs. J. T. ^Vebster. 

HALBTTT STEAK, STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Secure two shapely steaks, wash and thoroughly 
dry them with a towel, make a, stiiflfing from a cupful 
of crumbs, tablespoon l)utter, tablespoon onion juice, 
one of chopped parsley, a dash of Cayenne, i teaspoon 
of black pepper, just a grating of nutmeg and J tea- 
spoon of salt. Place one steak in the baking pan, lay 
carefully over it the stuffing, and place over it the 
other steak. Put small pieces of liutter over the top 
and dust lightly with salt and pepper. Bake until a 
golden brown- about thirty minutes. Cover the pan 
lightly for the first 2.5 minutes. Serve on hot platter. 
Garnish with sliced lemon. — Miss Battell. 

FLSH PIE. 

The I'emains of any kind of boiled fish, mashed 
potatoes, hard boiled eggs, and a little white sauce. 
Put a layer of fish, then one of potatoes, then the 
eggs cut up in rings, then the same till the pie dish is 
full, then put a nice crust on and bake for half an 
hour. — E. Hornby. 

WHITEFISH A LA CREME. 

Rub the fish well with salt and put it into a kettle 
with just sufficient warm water to cover it, as soon as 
it boiis, set it where it will simmer for an hour, then 
drain it and remove the large bones. Put 1 ounce of 
flour into a saucepan, to which add by degrees a qi, 
of milk, mix very smooth, add 1 large onion sliced, a 
bit of parsley.a dash of nutmeg, 1 teasDoon salt, ^ tea- 
spoon pepper, place all over the fire and stir constant- 
ly until it becomes quite thick, then add J lb. butter, 
pass through a sieve, pour the hot sauce over the fish, 



S FISH. 

■^et in the oven and let it Inown. Tlie white of an egfi 
well heaten ami spiead «>ver it will make it brown 
l)ettei'. To prevent tl)e china dish from breaking or 
tliscoloring, place it in a pan of hot water before set- 
ling in ti)e oven.- -Miss Battell. 



ENTREES. 

" These are trifles— tell ns of something 
solid. — Dnnias. 

wi<:lsh rarebits. 

One cni) hot milk, } Ii>. giated cheese, 4 teaspoon 
salt, I teasponii mustard, dash Cayenne pep|)er, ♦» 
shredded wiieat biscuits, 1 teaspoon butter,! teaspoon 
dour. 1 egg well beaten. Directions. — Put milk to 
heat; mix cheese, tloni-, egg, mustaid, salt and C'ay- 
• •nne in saucepan. When milk is scalding hot, add it 
a little at a Lime to the cheese mixture. Stir, cook- 
ing slowly until smooth us cieam. Take from (ire, 
stir in butler well and ponr over biscuits.- Mrs. Climo 

MACARONI CHEESE. 

Hoi! macaroni till soft, (hen drain. Take suffi- 
cient bciiled macaj-oui to fill a square dish. When but- 
tered, pile up with layers of macaroni and grated 
clieesi' and plenty of mustard and butter, some ('ay- 
I'un*' pcjipiM- and salt, cover all with grated cheese, 
bake a yellow i)rown, sei-ve very hot. Before baking 
wlu'u the dish is ftdl with ingredients barely cover 
with n)i!k.- .Miss Emma Field. 



J. A. Warner, 



Kl.\(i-ST., 
( OBOURG, 
ONT. 

Dt-aler in High Grade I'ianos, Organs and Sewing 
Machines. Headcpiarters for the famous Heintzman 
At C'o., ('anada's greatest piano. Ijowest prices — easy 
terms of payment. 

.lust received, a very fine line of .Music Bags and 
Rolls. These leather goods are of the very best (pial 
ity. A choice assortment of I^atest Sheet Music and 
Music Books. Every day is bargain day ;it Warner's 
Musi( Store. Phone 139. 



ENTREES. 



OMELETTE. 

8 eggs well beaten, A cup soft bread crmubs soak- 
ed in i cup wai'in uiilk, add a little batter and fry in 
butter, flavor with cepper and salt.— Miss Emma 
Field. 

CHINESE EGGS. 

One tablespoon fnl butter! rounding,)! tablespoon - 
ful flour (rounding), h pint milk, stir un'il it bubbles, 
^ teaspoonfnl salt, 3 shakes white pepper. G hard boil- 
ed eggs cut in quarters lengthwise, 1 tablespoonful 
parsley chopped or cut fine, added last. Serve on 
toast. — Miss Lillie Mewhle. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

2 tablespoons butter, 3 of flour, half cup scilded 
milk, half teasjjoon salt and a little peppei-, i cup of 
grated cheese, 3 eggs. C»ut of first five ingredients 
make a white sauce, remove from fire and add the 
well l>eaten yolks and cheese, cool mixture, just bring 
to tepid condition and fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 
Pile lightly in baking dish and bake 20 minutes in 
moderate oven, inclined to slow. — Mrs. J. T. Field. 

BAKED CHEESE. 

li grated cheese, A cup bread crumbs, 1 cup milk, 
1 egg beaten very light, a tiny pinch of Cayenne pep- 
per, salt to taste. Bake in l)uttered dish 1.5 minutes. 
—Mrs. A. F. Pollock. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

Put into a tin sauce pan a tablespoon of butter, 
let melt, then add half a cup of creairi and when thor- 
oughly mixed drop in eggs, pepper and salt to taste, 
then watch carefully and cook until tender. The 
amount of butter and cream will vary in pioporiion 
to number of eggs to be cooked. These are delicious. 
— Mrs. J. L. Benham, Fergus, Ont. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 

Boil 3 eggs 30 minutes, separate the yolks and 
:-hop the white fine, toast four slices of bread and cut 
into small triangles. Make a white sauce with 1 cup 
of milk, 1 teasi^oon of butter, 1 heaping teaspoon of 
salt and i saltspoon of pepper. Stir the whites into 
the sauce and pour over the bits of toast arranged oi\ 
a platter. Rub the yolks of the eggs through a fine 
strainer over the whole. — Miss Battell. 



10 MEATS. 

MEATS. 

"Some liae meat and canna' eat 
And .some wad eat. hnt want it. 

But we liae meat, and we can eat, 
Sae let the Loid be tliankit." 

CROQrRTTP:S. 

2 cups finely chopped Ci)oked meat, 1 cup milk, 1 
tahlesnoon l)ntter, 2 tablespoons chopped parslev, 2 
tablespoons Hour, seasoninj< to taste, scald the milk, 
heat tiie floni- aijd l)ntler toyethei- until smooth, add 
the milk and stir until it thickens, mix the seasoniiiff 
with the meat, add to the thickened milk and mix 
thorouf^hly, then cool ami form into cone-shaped ( ro- 
(piettes, covec with ej^g and bread crumbs and fi\ in 
hot fat. Cold beef, veal, mutton, chicken or turkey 
may be used in this way. — Mrs. George Brinning. 

TENNESSEE OHlCKEN. 

Put diipping in a. pan and let it get very hot, cut 
chicken by joints, salt and roll in flour, put in the j)an 
;vnd set it in the oven and let brown, then turn it over 
and let brown again, take out chicken and stir in 1 
cup milk and a little floui-, pour over chicken and 
serve. — Mrs. A. Eagleson. 

FOR 10 LBS. SPICED BEEF. 

Mix together 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup salt, i oz, 
salt petre, 1 oz. black pepp(M-, 1 o/. allspice, h oz. clo- 
ves, h oz. ginger. Hub in well, stand in cool place, 
turn and rub every morning for two weeks, then put 
in a deej) sauce pan and cover with'.boiling water and 
boil till tender, let stand in liipior till colil. — Mrs. 
Hayden. 



AA^. L.ALLEN & CO 

COBOURG, ONT. 

Dealer in .ill kinds of 

HARDWARE 

Window Shades. Best Mixed Paint 



MEATS. 11 

VEAL LOAF. 

8 veal shanks, boil until the bones can be reirxiv- 
ed, pepper and salt to taste. Line mould all around 
with slices of lemon and hard boiled eggs, then fill 
the mould in with the veal, cut in slices and pour on 
liquid and set away to cool. — Mrs. Uhas. Jones. 

STEAK PUDDING. 

Take 2 lbs of lean beef, cut it up fine place in frj'- 
ingpanwitha little fat till brown, adding 2 onions 
cut fine, pepper and salt to taste. Then add sufficient 
boiling water to cover the meat. Thicken with a 
large spoonful of flour. Cover and let simmer for 1 
hour. 

SUET CRUST. 

Take 3 cups floui-, li chopped suet, pinch s^lt, wet 
with cold water and roll out to the thickness of half 
an inch. Line » good sized pudding dish with the 
crust, put in the meat, covering the top with some 
crust, tie in a cloth and boil 2^ hours. The water 
must be boiling when it is placed in it. — Mrs. E. G. 
Murphy. 

Estab. 1875. 1909 

CLIMO BROS. 

Plumbing, Furnace Work, Hot 

Water Heating and 

Tinsmi thing. 

Selling for Cash Only 

Stationery and China. Leading Canadian 
and American Papers always in stock. 
The latest and best of Music. Newest 
Song Hits. Pictorial Post Cards. Some- 
thing new all the time. 

TWO BIG STORES. 

O. K. Fair, O. K. Bookstore, 

Port Hope, G. V. Strong. Cobourg, H. M. Bolster 



12 MEATS. 



MEAT LOAF. 



2 cnjrs bread cniinhs. 2 eggs. 2 lbs. hambuifi;.ste;ik. 
a ])in(;h of savory, sail ami pepper to taste, mix well, 
form into a loaf and dip in egg and bread crumbs and 
bake 20 minutes ii: ;i hot oven. — Mrs. M. Fisher. 



CASSEROLE. 

One cnp of raw rice, 2 cnps of cooked meat, | enp 
of bread crnml)s, season to taste with stock or gravy 
left from nit-at. Boil rice with a little salt. Butter 
a moiilil and line with a half inch Isver of rice. Sea- 
son the meat and pick inside cover with rice and 
steam for l of an hour, tuin out and serve with to- 
mato sauce or brown gravy. — Mis. J. ']'. Field. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Two cups of tcmatoes, 1 teaspoon chopped onion. 
2 cloves, s|)rig of mace and a little bay leaf, salt and 
pp(iper, 4 tablespoons of butter and 4 of flour. Cook 
tomatoes and seasonings for 10 nn'uutes, strain .and 
add water ov stook to make two cups of li([uid. Melt 
butter in saucepan, stir in flour, add licpiid and stir 
until it boils and thickens. — Mrs. J. T. B'ield. 

CHICKEN JELLY. 

Steam chicken with s(n«e celery and .i coujile of 
cloves, let broth get cold and skim off every particle 
of grease, add to this water in which celeiy, onions 
and bay leaves have been i>oiled, sufficient to make 
about a pint and a half of li(piid. add lemon juice,i)ep- 
per and salt, a little sugai and .i dash of Cayenne, add 
gelalive enough to stilt'en and seive on lettuce leaves 
with ma\onnaise.--Mrs. ,T. T. Field. 



JOHN T. V/EBSTER 

KING'ST, WEST. 



Dealer in ALL KINDS OF FRESH 
AND OTHER MEATS. 

Accounts Rendered Monthly. 

Prompt Payment ICxpected 



MEATS. l:{ 

PICKLE FOR TONGUE. 

5 tahlespodiis salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, piece of 
salt petre size of a beau. Rtib tongue evefv tbiy for 
10 days, l)oil till tender. — IMrs. Harry Field. 

TOAD IN THE HOLE. 

Make a good Yorksliire pudding batter,bj' adding 
four tablespoons of flour to one pt. of milk, 2 salt 
spoons or salt, beat two eggs and stir well into the 
batter, if no eggs add three teaspoons of baking pow- 
der. When the hatter is well mixed, take 6 sausages 
f'ut the skin down lengthwise and slip off, lay m the 
batter and bake in a very hot oven till a nice brown 
color. — Mrs. C Taylor. 

BOILED PRESSED EEEF. 

Tiike 4 or 5 pounds of l)eef, boil slowly till tender, 
take out all the hones and cut off any pieces of skin, 
add pepper and salt to taste, press the meat and stock 
into a bowl and let get cold. Slice and serve. — Mrs. 
Willis. 



For the Best Results, Use 

HARYEY^S 
BAKING POWDER 

ONE POUND TIN, I5c. 

iT WILL STAND THE TEST 



At W. R. Whitelaw's 

GET 

The Family Souvenir Range 

The latest has all the good features of 
previous souvenirs, and some new ones, 
including — 

DROP OVEN DOOR, CONTACT TANK 

REMOVABLE NICKEL. 



14 MEATS. 

STUFKED BEEF STEAK. 

T.ikt' a idiiiul of beef steak about an inch thick. 
leniMve the bone, sew np the open place, Make a 
dressing of bread cinnibs, seasoned with sail, pepper 
and two small chopped onions. Put dressing in the 
middle of steak, roll np and sew together, pnt in ket- 
tle on top of stovt» with just enough water to keep 
from l)ui-ning,adding as it boils away. Cook slovly 
three liours tuining that it mav brown on all sides. 
Make gravy, thicken slightly and pour part on the 
meat. — The Plymouth Cook Book. 

VEAL LOAF. 

4 lbs. cooked veal, 2 lbs. boiled salt pork (both 
chopped fine), 2 teaspoons pepper, 1 teaspoon powder- 
ed mace, H eggs, 1 pint bread crumbs oi- 1 dozen rolled 
crackeis. F^eat the eggs and mix well and mould in- 
to a loaf. Bake brown. — Mrs. Stephen McBride. 

BROWN STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Cut 2 lbs. of beef into cubes of one inch, put Jj cup 
of chopped suet into ajsauce pan. When tlie fat is 
rendered out remove tiie crackling, throw the mejit 
into the hot fat, sliake it over the hot fire until thoi- 
ouphly browiu^d then draw to one side; add 2 round- 
ing tablespoons of Hour, mix, then add 1 (piart oi 
stock or water, stir until boiling, add oi\e level tea- 
spoon salt, a slice of onion, asaltspoon of peppei-; cov- 
er and cook slowly for lA hours. Ten minutes before 
the stew is done jMit h nint of Hour into a bowl; add A 
teaspoon salt antl teaspoon baking powder, sift and 
add sufficient milk to moisten. Drop bysj^oonfuls on 
top of ilie stew, cover and cook 10 minutes without 
lift ing the lid. Dish the dumplings around the edge 
of the platter. — Mrs. Harry Field. 



School Boots. 



For Good Wearing School Boots 
for your boys and girls, try 

"■"y^M. c. A. V/m. Hill 



MEATS. 15 

BRAISED CHICKEN. 

Wipe, stuff, sew and skewer, and put on rack 
in kettle with tight cover. Put butter on a slice 
of porli in bottom of kettle, add a carrot, onion, tur- 
nip and celery, a bay leaf, sprig of parsley, some pep- 
per-corns, salt, 3 cups of l)oiling water, cover kettle 
and cook 8 or i hours. When tender brush over with 
butter, dredge with flour ana brown in oven. — Mrs. 
Applebv. 

SHEPHERD'S PIE. 

Mince cold meats, any quantity desired, put in 
bottom of dish seasoned with salt and pepper to taste. 
Mash cold potatoes fine and l)eat them up with 1 pint 
milk to 1 pint of potatoes, mix in also butter size of 
an egg. Put on top of potatoes, put in oven, bake un- 
til brown. Tested and found good. — Mrs. J. T. Web- 
ster. 



A Complete Stock 

Of McPherson's High Grade 
Union Made Boots and Shoes 
For Sale by 

YI. J. BRINNING 

ONLY. COBOURG, ONT. 



USE 

Johns' Filac Cream 

For Chapped Hands, 
Face and Lips. 

0. G. JOHNS, - Chemist 



10 VKGETABLKS. 



VEGETABLES. 

"Tlie garden yields its fruit in lavish measure 

We teach yi)u how to serve the same with pleasure." 

VKGETABLKS— Time tahle for cooking. 

Potatoes boiled 30 miiuites 

Potatoes l)aked 4.") 

Sweet Potatoes Ixiiled 4.") 

Sweet Potatoes haked 1 hour 

Scjuash l)oiled 15 minutes 

.Scjwash liaked ". 4ii '* 

Green ])eas hoiled 20 to 40 " 

.Siielled l)eans. hoiled 1 hour. 

String beans, boiled 1 to 2 hrs. 

(iieen cuvy 2.> niin. to 1 lir 

As|)ar;<%ua l.j to HO niin. 

Spinach 1 to 2 hrs. 

Tomatoes (fresh) 1 hour. 

Tomatoes (canned) 30 minutes. 

('al)l)nge ... 45 " to 2 hrs. 

Caulirtower 1 to 2 hrs. 

Dandelions 2 to 3 hrs. 

Beet greens 1 hour. 

Onions . . 1 to 2 hours 

Beets 1 to 5 hours 

Turnips, white 45min.lo1hr 

'l'urni|)s, yellow 1 .\ hrs t<> 2 hrs, 

Paisnips 1 to 2 hi .s. 

Carrots 1 to 2 iirs. 



D. DENTON 

SEEDSMAN. KINC-ST. COBOURG 

HK.M.KK I.V Ar.r, KINDS OV 

SEEDS, PLANTS AND BULBS 
CUT FKow i:ks .\ spi:(iAi;r'i'. 

( Onservaloiy George-St. 'J'elepho'ie No. (IH 



VEGETABLES. 17 



PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Scrape and boil tender, two large parsnips, rub 
through a colander and mash. Beat in 1 egg, 2 ta- 
blespoons of inilk, two teaspoons of flour, one half 
teaspoon of salt, one fourth teaspoon of pepper. Make 
into'suiall flat cakes, flour sMghtly and fry in butter 
or good dripping. Brown on both sides,— Eva Battel] 

GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT. 

Eight lbs. green toniatoes(chopped fine and drain- 
ed). Dissolve 4 lbs. of white sugar, while hot put in 
the tomatoes and cook IJ hours. Remove froin the 
stove and add 2 cups laisins, 2 cups currants, 1 cup of 
vinegar, 1 tahlesf)0()n cinnamon, 1 tablespoon cloves, 
1 tablespoon b'.ack pepper, 1 piece of butter size of an 
egg. Put in crocks. — Mrs. Copp, Detroit. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

One pint milk or cream to 1 pint of finely pulver- 
ized potatoes, 1 egg, beaten well together. Put in 
dish with lumps of butter. Season with salt and pep- 
per and bake till brown.— Mrs. J. T. Webster. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Put one quart of small white beans to soak over 
night. In the morning parboil them until the skin 
cracks, drain and rinse, Put them into a bean pot, 
with 2 tablespoons of white sugar and 2 tablespoons 
of molasses, 1 level teaspoon of salt (less if pork is 
very salt), a pinch of mustard and £ lb. of salt pork, 
putting it in on top of the beans, then fill the pot with 
boiling water and put on cover and bake all day. Add 
water when it is needed to make them quite moist. — 
Mrs. A. F. Pollock. 



Ladies ! 



When you Want a 
WASHING MACHINE 
or CHURN, go to 

LEONARD & SOUS 

DIVISION^ST. COBOURG, ONT. 



18 VEGETABLES. 



D ELM ON I CO POTATOES. 

Layer of chopped cooked potatoes, layer thin 
white sauce, layer of grated cheese, layer potatoes, 
layer thin white sauce layer cheese, layer sauce, lay- 
er buttered bread crumbs. Bake 20 minutes,— Ply- 
mouth Cook Book. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Take 2 large cnps of cold mashed potatoes and 
stir into it 2 tablespoons of melted butter, beat into a 
cream before adding anything else. 'J'hen put with 
this 2 eggs beaten very light, a teacup of cream or 
milk, salting to t;iste. Beat all well and pour into a 
dish, bake in a quick oven nntii nicely browned. — 
Tottenham Cook Book. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cut the corn from 10 cobs, mix this with }i quan- 
tity of Lima beans and cook 1 hi', in just enough wa- 
ter to cover them, drain off water and add 1 cup milk 
with a pinch of soda added, ^^'hen this boils stir in a 
great spoonful butter and 1 tablespoon flour, season 
with pepper and salt and simmer 10 minutes, serve 
hot. — Mrs. M. Fisher. 



George Greer 

LiYery,Sale and Boarding Stables 



Hacks and 'Bus Meet all trains and boats. 
Baggage Transfer. Carriages for Private 
Parties and Weddings. Careful Drivers. 

• 
King'St., W.— Phone 39. Divioion-st.— Phone 85 



VEGETABLES. 19 



POTATO PUFFS. 

Boil 12 large potatoes till done, strain, atld 3 beat- 
en eggs, 4 ov.. btiiter, 1 cup of bread crumbs, salt and 
pepper to taste, roll up the size of biscuits, roll in egg 
and bread cruniOs, l)ake in a brisk oven till a light 
brown, serve at once.— Mrs. M. Fisher. 

CREAMED ASPARAGUS. 
Wash carefully and break (not cut) into inch 
pieces as far as each stalk can be broken. When it 
will not snap off quickly tht^ stalk is too tough to be 
used. Cook in boiling salted water fifteen minutes. 
Drain and make a white sauce of one cup of the water 
in which the asparagus was cooked and 1 cup of milk, 
thickened with 2 heaping tablespoons flour and 2 tab- 
lespoons butter, cooked together; season with 1 salt- 
spoon salt, h saltspoon white pepper. Have ready ob- 
longs of toast. Put the asparagus on them and pour 
the white sauce over all. — Miss Battell. 

LADIES' CABBAGE. 
Boil a firm white cabbage 15 minutes, changing 
the water then for moie from the boiling teakettle. 
When tender drain and set aside until perfectly cold. 
Chop fine and add two welJ beaten eggs, 1 tablespoon 
butter, some pepper and salt, 3 tablespoons rich milk 
or cream. Stir all well together and bake in a but- 
tered pudding dish until brown. Serve very hot. This 
is very much like cauliflower and is very digestible 
and palatable. —Miss Battell. 

MOCK DUCK. 
Take a long vegetable marrow, size required, peal 
and clean out with long spoon and make a duck dres- 
sing and stuff the marrow, place in pan, salt and pep- 
pering, and laying pieces of fat or butter over the top, 
bake li hours in slow oven. — Mrs. Chas. Jones. 



MISS s^n:kk 

The Fancy Dry Goods Store 

Ladies' and Children's Ready 
Made Garments a Specialty. 

KING-ST. COBOURG 



20 SALADS. 



SALADS. 

•* We sIihII cultivate a taste for whole- 
some green foods," 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Yolk of 1 egg well beaten, drop oil in till you get 
it thick, then thin with juice of lemon, salt to taste, 
add a little whipped cieani and stii- all together.— 
Kate. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSIN(i. 

One egg, 1 tablespoon flour atid one of .sugar, a 
small half spoon of salt. 1 teaspoon mixed mustard, ^ 
cup vinegar, h cup water, butter size of .a walnut, beat 
all together, cook in a double boiler, and stir all the 
time till cooked. Thin with cieam when cold. — Kate 

SALAD DRESSING. 

1 egg well beaten, ^ large teaspoonful mustaid. | 
teaspoon salt, 4 teaspoons sugar, bntter size of an egg 
], cup vinegar. Add oil if desired. Cook all together 
in double l)oiler or dish set in water until it thickens. 
Thin with cream or cold water for use. — Miss Lillie 
Mewhle. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

1 egg, 1 teaspoon sugar, A teaspoon mustard, 5 cup 
vinegar, mix nnistard in the vinegar, beat all togeth- 
er and boil in a bowl over the steam of a kettle until 
<{uite thick. When cool turn the mixture over a 
small half head of cabbage, chopped fine. If too thick 
.add cold cream. — .Mrs. Willis. 



Buy Your Groceries, 

Fruit and 

Sealshipt Oysters, at 



E. Guillet & Go's 



The Spot Cash Grocers, where you can al- 
ways depend f)n fiist-ciass fresh goods, Big 
business means a quick turn over— no stale 
goods. Prices always the lowest, If one of 
our oil men does not call on you, leave order 
at store and it will be prorn|)lly at tended to. 
Five gallons good Coal Oil for 75e— better 
than anv other at same price. ;") gallons very 
V)est American Oil, $1.15. E. GUILLET & CO. 



SALADS. 21 



WALDORF SALAD. 

Pare anrt cut quitter inch dice the same amount 
(if rich tai t apples that you do of celery cut in thin 
slices. Add to the apples and celery a geneious hand 
full of Engish walnuts, and pour over a, rich mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves. — Mrs. Blaii- 
chard. 

DRESSING. 

Three eggs, half teaspoon mustard, half teaspoon 
salt, 2 tablespoons granulated sugar, 2 tablespoons of 
cream, 8 tablespoons vinegar. Boil until it thickens. 
—Mrs. Blanchard. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Roll bananas in salad diessing and then in chop- 
1>ed nuts. Serve on lettuce leaves with dressing. — 
Plymouth Cook Book. 

MAYONNALSE DRESSING. 

Beat 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon dry 
mustard, ^ cup vinegar, a saltspoon of salt, ^ cup of 
sugar, pinch of Cayenne pepper. Cook in double boil- 
er as you would custard. — Miss Martha Field. 

SALAD DRESSING (Cooked). 

Four tablespoons of butter, 1 of flour, 1 of salt, 1 
of sugar if wanted sweet, 1 teaspoon of nnistaixl, 1 
cup of milk, half cup of vinegar, 8 eggs, a. little Cay- 
enne. Let biitter get hot, add flour and stir smooth, 
add milk and boil. Place sauce pan in another of hot 
water or use double boiler.Beat eggs, salt, pepper, (su- 
gar if desired) and mustard together. Add vinegar, 
then stir into milk nn'xture. Cook until it thickens. 
—Mrs. Frederick Field. 



Go to PERKS' 

FOR 

Cherries, Walnuts, Ice Cream 
and Choice Candy. 



22 BREADS. 

BREAD. 

" The very staff of life, (he coinfoit of the hu.s- 
hand, the pride of the wife-" 

DATE LOAF. 

.Soups j^rahain floiii-, 1 nip white flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 cup sMfi^ar, 4 heajiing teaspoons haking powder, 
'2 lbs. stoned dates cut in half, mix with milk till the 
consistency of fruit cake. Bake in deep tin in moder- 
ate oven Ih hours. — Mrs. G. Brinning. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

Pour 1 pt. hoiling water over 1 cup rolled oats,add 
1 tablespoon lard, 1 teaspoon salt, rover and let stand 
1 hour, then add A cup molasses, ^ teaspoon soda, 4 

1 ups white Hour, ajid half yeast cake, let rit-e over 
itight. In the moining cut down with a knife, put in 

2 tins, let rise till twice its size and bake 1 hour. — 
Mrs. A. F. Pollock. 



To be certain of getting the best results 
from the recipes in this book, use 

" Five Roses " Flour 

IT IS Sold at 



DUNCAN'S 



N'ou will also find their coal the most ."iatisfactorv 
in town. 



INSURANCE 

FIRE. LIFE. ACCIDENT 

REAL ESTATE. 

Anderson&Tannahill 

King si. Kiist, t'ol)ourg. 'i'clcphone 21(). 



BREADS. 2:h 



ECONOMICAL GEMS. 



k 



2 Clips grjihani flour, 1 cup rolled wheat, 1 cup 
white flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon soda, 
half cup hrown sugar, 1 tablespoon shortening, sour 
milk to inake right consistency. Bako in hot gem 
tins in hot oven.— Mrs. A. F. Pollock. 

GEMS. 

2 ee-gs. 2 tablespoons of sugar, half cup of butter, 
1 teaspoon baking powder to each cup ot flour, 1 pir, t 
of milk, a pinch of saU. Beat butter, sugar and eggs 
well together. Add milk. Fold in sifted flour and 
baking powder enough to niake mixture drop from 
spoon. Butter gem pans and bake mixture 20 min- 
utes. Omit sugar when preferred. — Miss Emma 
Field. 

OAT CAKES. 

1 breakfast cup oatmeal, | teaspoon soda, pinch 
salt, one and half tablespoons melted lard, waini wa- 
ter to make a soft dough, knead till smooch, press in- 
to a round cake half an inch thick and then roll out 
very thin. Place on a hot griddle and bake till firm. 
Take them off and put in a moderately hot oven till 
they become quite dry and curl up.— Mrs. Tannahill. 

SCONES. 

2 breakfast cups flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 large 
tablespoon sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 
breakfast cup milk. Rub butter lightly into flour, 
add sugar and baking powder, make into a soft dough 
with Uiilk. Divide dough into three pieces and light- 
ly roll each piece out into large round scone, then di- 
vide into four. Place them on a hot griddle and bake 
about 5 minutes, turning once. — Mrs. Tannahill. 



HALK & CO. 

MERCHANT TAILORS. 

Best Place for Hats in Cobourg 

TRY THE KING HAT, 



2t BREADS. 

NUT BREAD. 

4 Clips flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, J cnp 
sugar, 1 cnp fliopped walnnis, ] teaspoon salt, Hcups 
milk. Let mixture stand 20 minutes after mixing 
and bake in quick oven.— Ida WliimsetL, 

BREAD .SAUC;E. 

1 pint milk, in it stew t)np onion, stick a clove in 
tbe onion, sitmner until soft, pour the liot milk on a 
small bowl bread crumbs, letstand coveied tillsoft.Beat 
it up, add apiece of butter, ( Cayenne pepper and salt 
to taste. Keep hot until used. — Mary L. Orr. 

WAFFLES. 

2 eggs, 2 cups sweet milk, 2 cujis fiour, 2 teaspoons 
baking ])owder. a pinch of salt, a tablespoon of sugir 
if desired. iMix flour, l)akiiig powder and sail thor- 
oughly together, mix yolks wilb milk, then the flour 
and lastly tlie beaten whiles. Have waffle irf)n very 
clean and tlioroughly heated on both sides. Rub it 
ovei- with a piece of salt pork or biitter tied in a rag. 
C'lose the iron and turn it. so the grease will cover 
every part. Put enough butter into each section of 
the ii-on to fill it two-thirds full. Shut the iron and 
COOK the waffles a minute or longer until a light 
brown on each side. Serve hot using with them ma- 
ple svrup oi- powdered sugar or butter. — Mis. Fieder- 
ick Field. 

NUT BREAD. 

1 cup gran, sugar, 1 egg, 1 teasjioon sail, 1 cup 
chojjped walnuts, 1^ cups milk, 4 cups Hour, 4 tea- 
si)oons l)aking powder. Let it stand 20 minutes before 
putt ing in oven. Slice and eat with butter.- Mrs. 
I<'redeiick I"'ield. 



D. EAA^ART 

DE.VLER IN 

BOOTS. SHOES AND RUBBERS 
KING'ST., COBOURG, ONT. 



BREADS. 25 

PUFFS OR POP-OVERS. 

Two cups of milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 eggs (whites 
;uh1 yolks heaten sepaiatclj'), 1 teaspoon ot salt. Mix 
salt with the flour. Mix the heate" voiks with the 
milk and add them slowly to the flour to make a 
smooth hatter. Lastly fold in the whipped whites. 
Put the hatter at once into hot greased gem pans, 
filling them half full, and put into a hot oven for HO 
miinites. Serve at once, as they fall as soon as heat 
is lost.~Mrs. Frederick Field. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

1 qt. flour, 1 helping teaspoon salt, 1 dessestspoon 
hutter, 1 dessertspoon lard, 3 teaspoons Harvey's hak- 
ingpowdei'. 1 handful sugar, sweet milk to make 
dough soft enough to roll. Sift salt, flour and haking 
powder together. Ruh in shortening thoroughly 
with hands Add milk and sugar, stirring with knife 
and hake in very hot oven. — F. K. P. 



The Bank of Toronto 

INCORPORATED 1855. 

• 

PAYS SPECIAL ATTENTION 
TO SAVINGS ACCOUNTS. 

CAPITAL, $4,000,000. 

RESERVE, $4,500,000 

^ E. W. HARGRAFT, Mgr. Cobourg Branch 



26 COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 

COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 

".Jninl)les .iiid cookies, te;u';ikes and tarts. 

In roiuitls and squares, in diamonds and hearts." 

NUT COOKIES. 

1 cnp butter, half cnp sngai-, 3 eggs, two and half 
cups floiii-, i' II). or 1 tup of dates, 1 cup walinits, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, h teas|>o()n allspice, 1 teaspoon soda 
di>solve(l in a little warm water. (^Iiop nuts ami dates 
and drop quantities on buttered tins.^A. ICagleson. 

CHOCOLATE DOUGHNUTS. 

One and a half squares melted chocol.ile, \\ cups 
sugar. 2 eggs, 3 teaspoons melted butter, I cup sour 
milk, 1 and a half teaspoons vanilla, 1 teaspoon soda, 
4 and a half cups flour. — Mrs. W. H. Stock well. 

(41NGEK SNAPS. 

5 cents molasses (boiled). 2 teaspoons soda, 2 eggs. 
2 cups blown sugar, 1 and a half cups lard, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 2 teaspoons gingei-, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix 
name as cookies. This makes betwen S a!.d 10 dozen. 
— L. E. Fisher. 



Buying Shoes 

In Cobo urg ? 

We Sell Three Well Known Lines. 

I. The Slater Shoe for Men-- 

at $3.50, $4 and $5. 

II. The Famous Empress Shoe for 

Ladies, at $2-50. $3 and $3.50 

III. The Classic Shoe for Misses and 

Children, at $1, $1.25, $1.50, 
to $2. 

SAM CLARKE'S 

BUSY STORES 

PHONE 120. 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 27 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

2 cups butter, 2 cups sugar. 3 egg 5, 1 cup raisins. 
1 cup currants, 1 cup wainuls, chopped together. 1 
teasp(Mni soda dissolved in 8 tablespoons sour milk. H 
or 4 cups of tiour or more if needed, cut in any shape 
and bake m quick oven. — Ida Whimsett. 

GOOD COOKIES. 
1 pt. flour, 1 cup butter, half teaspoon salt, 2 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, mix with 
water. —Mrs. Service. 

RECIPE FOR COOKIES. 

One cup butter and lard mixed, H cups brown 
sugar, 1 egg, o tablespoons water, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 
of cream tartar, flour to make soft dough. — Mrs. E. 
Grinlinton. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cup of water, butter the size of an epg, boil 
together, stir in 1 cup flour, then cool. Break three 
eggs in one at a time— do not beat, just stir in and 
drop on buttered pan. For filling use either whipped 
cream or lemon filling. — Mrs. E. Grinlinton. 



Handy Helps 

For the Xmas Season 



Clean cut Jelly Cake Tins, per pair, 15c. 
Round and Square Story Cake Tins, 30c 

and 35c. 
Food Choppers, 3 sizes, $1.25, $1.50, $1,75. 
" Gem " Round Roast Pans, 35c and 50c. 
Oblong Covered Roast Pans, 35c, 50c, 75c. 
Bread or Cake Mixers, $1.75 and $2.25. 
Best Quality Roasting Pans, 10c, 15c, 18c, 

and 20c. 
Carpet Sweepers, Wringers, etc. 
Big Bargains in small wares. 



A. R. DUNDAS 

Telephone 74. Stoves, Plumbing, Etc. 



28 COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 



COOKIES. 

Half cup lard, h cup butter, 1^ cups white sugar, 

1 CUD soui- milk, 1 teaspoon soda, flour sufficient to 
make dough. Season witii caraway seed or nutmeg 
to suit llie taste. Mix tliorougiiiy.roll very thin and 
l)ake (j[uiciily. — Mrs. W. .J. Brinning. 

DATE CAKE. 

One cup flour. 1 cup pulveiized oatmeal, l.\cup 
butter or pork gravy, A cup brown sugar, \ cup 
sour milk, half teaspoon soda. Mix like biscuits. 
Take f)ne half of mixture, roll out and spread on l)ot- 
lom of pan. Ha\ e half 11). dates stewed and spread 
on this, then roll out the other half and spread over. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven. — Amelia I'^agleson. 

THOUSAND ISLAND COOKIES. 

One cup butter, 1 cup brown sugai-, 2 cups Hour, 

2 cups o.itmeal, 1 cup raisins, half cup sweet milk, 2 
*^'KKS, ? teaspoon soda sifted with flour, 1 teaspoon 
each of ciruiamon, cloves and vanilla. Di-oj) in small 
teaspoonfiils on tin. Bake in hot oven. — Mrs.'l'urpin. 



GET AA^ISE 

AND GO TO 

MITCHELL'S 

FOR 

ALL KINDS OF MEAT 

PRICES REASONABLE 
Opp. Town Hall. Telepnone 42 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 2i) 



DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup sour uiilk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 2 Lal)lespoons l>uttei-, a- liLLle salt. Hour to make 
a soft dough. Roll out thin, cut into cakes and fry 
in hot lai-d. — Mrs. Service. 

OAT MEAL CAKES. 

Three cups oat meal, 8 cups flour, { cup shorten- 
ing, i cup sugar, 1 teaspoon of soda disf^olved in half 
cup of warm water and mixed with it.--Amelia 
Eaglesou. 

EGG COOKIES. 

. Into 3 cups flour nut half teaspoon soda and 1 tea- 
spof.n cream tartar, then rnh in 1 cup hutter. Heat 2 
eggs with 1 cup sugar ;ind mix with fiour and hutter. 
lioll out thin and hake in (piick oven. — Mrs. K.G. Watt 

ROCK CAKES. 

One cup hutter and l.ird mixed, 1 cup currants, 1 
cup white sugar, half cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 heap- 
ing te;ispoon haking pow'ler, 3 small cups fiour. Drop 
in spoonfuls and hake in qui(;k oven. — Fannie V.Wood 

COBOURG BOOK STORE 

EVEKYTHING IX 

B00KS,MAGAZINES,PER10D1CALS, 
STATIONERY and FANCY GOODS 

TELEPHONE ^^ Ciaig'S 

Ladies, Attention! 

When in need of Wall Paper, 
Paints, Fancy Goods for Home Dec^ 
orations. Picture Framing, go to 

Se^'^,.,. James Gillard 



;« COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Scald 1 pint milk, when cool .uld 1 r-iip yeast, or 1 
yeast cake, 2 ej^^s, 1 cnp sii^ar.lialf cup melted hi, Iter, 
1 teaspoon salt, a little nutmeg, 1 teaspoon so<l;i. Mix 
stiff with Hour and let rise till morning, then roll out 
and cut with donghniit cutter, let rise till veiv liglit 
and fry.- Mis. W. H. Stockwell. 

DATE JEM .JAMS. 

One and a lialf cups oatmeal. ;' cup hiown sngai', 
lialf cup huttei. 1 egg, ^ cup sweet milk, half teaspoon 
soda, 1 heaping teaspoon hakiug powd»'i', sufHcient 
flour 13 loll. Cream, sugar and hutter, add egg well 
heaten, stir in oatmeal, then Hour, s(»da and haking 
j^owder; lastly add milk. Roll out dough on hoarcj 
fpiite thin and cut with lound cutter. Spread on 
layei- of dates, then cover witli layer of douL'h. Dates 
should l)e cleaned, stoned and cooked thoroughly in a 
little sugar and w.iter. Bake ahout ten minutes. — 
Mis. Havdei:. 



T. F. HALL, B. A. 

BARRISTER. 
SOLICITOR. NOTARY, Etc. 



Standard Bank Building. 

Money to Loan at Current Rates 

Choice New Fruits 



Florida Oranges, Grape Fruit, Malaga 
Grapes and IJananas. We also handle 
the best hrands Canned Goods- Quaker, 
Peerless and Thistle. Also a winter sup- 
ply of all kinds of Vegetables in stock. 



J. D. Mcintosh 



COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 



SHORT BREAD. 

Four ll)s. Houi-, 1 11). sugar, 2 ll)s. hutLer. Mix 
well. Roll out, cut iu squares, ami biike a light 
hrowM.— Mrs. M. Fit«her. 

DATE COOKIES. 

One and a half cups light brown sugar, 2 eggs, 1 
cup butter, 2 cups fl>ur, 2 teaspoons i)ak'ng powder, 
add a little milk if hard to roll, stew dates ami spread 
between. These arc delicious. — Gertrude Harvev- 

HERMITS. 
One and a half cups sugar, 1 cup butter. 3 eggs, 
1 cup chopped hickory nuts, 1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon allspice, half 
teaspoon sodn, 1 tablespoon milk, flour er.ough to 
roll.— Miss Lillie Mewhle. 

COOKIES. 

One egg. cup butter, cup sugar, 2 tablespoons of 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, I teaspoon cieam tartar. Flour 
to roll out thin. — Mrs. Willis. 



Cobourg Family Theatre 

Bijou Dream 

• 

MOVING PICTURES AND ILLUSTRATED 

SONGS. 

CHANGE EVERY NIGHT. 

NELSON TAIT 

FURNITURE DEALER 

AND 

UNDERTAKER 

DIYISION-ST. COBOURG 



:i2 COOKIES AND DOUGHXVTS. 



LEMON BISCUIT. 

Tlnee nips white sngai-, 1 c-iip Imt ler iiiul I.ud, 2 
Clips swei't milk. 2 eggs, oc woiili oil of lemon. r)C 
woith hakiiig ammonia. Dissohe ammonia in milk, 
a liltle salt, Honi- enough to make stiff dongh. Roll 
out and rnt with a sqna-e cnttef. Bake a delicate 
liiDWU. — Mis. .1. ('. Roseve;ir. 

FORK CAKE. 

One and a half cups white (sugar, 1 aiui a half 
cups hutter, yolks of font- eggs, 2 tablespoons sweet 
cream. 1 quart flonr. 1 teaspoon cream tarter, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, currants to suit. Drop in large pan and 
fork them over. — >l. H. Forrest. 

DATE ROCKS. 

One cup hutter. 1 and a half cups hrowii sugar, '.i 
eggs, 1 Ih. :-hopped dates, J Ih. chopped walnuts, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, half teaspoon nutmeg,! teaspoon 
soda dis.solved in 2 tablespoons of vateisflour to make 
a stiff batter. Drop in spoonfuls and bake. — Mrs. 
George Greer. 

.JEM JEMS. 

Mix together .md iiih well with the hands the fol- 
lowing, aiul then wet with half cup of cold water : — 
2 cups ot flour, 2 cups of old f.i.sliioned oat meal, one 
and a half cups of brown sugar, 1 cup of lard, 1 tea- 
spoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of Cow Brand baking soda. 
Roll out thin, bake in modeiate oven, then place two 
together with jelly. — Mrs. ('has. .Jones. 



The Dominion Bank 

Transacts a General Banking Busi- 
ness and pays special attention to 
Savings Accounts. Gives as good 
rates, as good treatment and as good 
security as any Bank in Canada. 

Cheques on other Banks cashed 
or taken on deposit. 

E. H. OSLER, Manager Cobourg Branch 



CAKES. x^ 

CAKES. 

With weigliLs and iiieasiu'es just and true, 

Oven ftf even lieat, 
Well l)iittefHd tins and (]iiiet nerves, 

S.iccess will l)e con)|)leLe. 

RAISED CAKE. 

1 rup light hiead sponge, 1 enp sugar h eiip hut- 
ter (melted). 1 cup raisins, 1 cnp flour, ^ teaspoon bak- 
ing soda dissolved in a little milk, nutmeg and 
rinnamon. Bake in loaf in moderate oven. — Mrs. W. 
H. Stockwell. 

NUT CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, A cup h'ltter, i cup n)ilk, 2 cnps of 
flour, 2 eggs, 1 cup raisin^, 1 cup nuts, 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar, A teaspoon soda. Bake half an houi". — 
Mrs. Turpin. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF. 

lA cups sugar, 4 f'P hutter, worked to a cream ; H 
well beaten eggs. Into a howl put 8 teaspoons of 
chocolate, H of siigai' and heat in '^ of boiling milk, add 
this t<i the caKe mixture and then h cup milk and stir 
in 2 cups floiu- with 2 heaping teaspoons baking pow- 
(h^r mixed in. Bake in a lo if and when cold ice. — L. 
E. Fisher. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

^ cup butter. 1 cup sugar, h cup milk, yolks of li 
eggs, Ij cups flour, 1 teasi)oon so(hi,2 of cream t:irtar. 
lastly add 2 squares of chocolate soaked in half the 
milk till soft, l)eat in well and bake in 2 layers. Ice 
with chocolate a.nd put walmits on top.— Fannie V. 
Wood. 



W. H. Floyd 

Special Lines in 

LADIES' FINE FOOTWEAR 

Latest Designs in Overgaiters for 
present season's trade. 

TELEPHONE 132. 



:U CAKES. 



DORCAS CAKE. 

1 cup wliite sng;ii-.A cup Imttei- lioaten well.u liiti-s 
H e>^f?s. A cu|t sweet milk, H cups Hour. 2 le;isp<i(ins 
linking powder. Icing- 1 nip pulverized sugar slinecl 
into the yolks of the eggs, flavor with orange juice. — 
Mrs. C Hiinning. 

(tInger bread. 

Put 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sug.ii-, hutteisize of an 
egg, h teaspoon ginger, 1 teas|)oon of soda in a howl 
and i)our 1 cup hoiling water over them, then add 2 
well heaten eggs and 2 cups flour — Mrs. George Greer. 

EGG LESS CAKE. 

lA cups sugar. 1 cup sour milk, 'A cujts (level) sifted 
flour, ^ cup butter, 1 cup cliopped raisins, 1 teaspoon 
soda, J teaspoon cinnamon, \ teaspoon grated nut- 
meg. — Mrs. .las. Davidson. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs heaten sepaiately, I4 cups white sugar, A 
teaspoon flavoring, add white of eggs and heat well. 
2 cups flour with 2 leaspoons haking powder.mix well 
then add yolks well heaten. then add half cup hoiling 
water. Modeiate oven. — Eannie V. Wood. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

2 cups floni-, 1 cup sugar,] and half cups cniranis, 
2 tahlespoons lard, 2 oz. candied peel, 1 teaspoon hak- 
ing powder. 2 eggs, ] rup milk, pinch of salt. Hake 
one and h.iH hoins. Process — liuh the lard into the 
Hour and haking powder, ihei: add the ol lu-r ingredi- 
ents, lastly the eggs and milk, without \\hip|)ing the 
eggs. .Mis. K. (J. .Mnipliy. 



MEN'S 

HIGH CLASS TAILORS 
and FURNISHERS 

Jackson & Clarke. 



[ 



UAKES. 



BLACK FRUIT CAKE, 

1 II). flour, 1 lb. sugar (biinvn), 1 lb. cmiaiits, 1 11). 
raisins, 1 cup bulter, 5 eggs, 2 tablespoons niulasses, I 
tablespoon ciniiiiinon, 1 tablespoon cloves, balf table- 
spoon nutmeg, 1 teaspoon soda, nuts and peel it' de- 
sired.— Mis. .Jas. Davidson. 

GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup brown sugar, half cup butter and l.ird mix- 
ed. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup sc^ur cream, I lea- 
spoon ginger and 1 of cinnamon. 1 cup molasses, IS cups 
flour. 1 cup currants. — Mary L. Orr. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, half cup l)utlei', half cup milk. 1 and 
half cup flour. 2 teaspoons I) iking powder, whites of ."{ 
eggs, flavor with vanilla. For icing - Yolks of H eggs 
well beaten, icing sugar and flavor with vanilla. — Fan- 
nie V. Wood. 

LINCOLN CAKE. 

2 eggs well beaten, 2 cujxs sugar, half cup bnttei-, 
I cup sweet milk, ii scant cui)s Houi- into which 2 tea- 
spoons baking p(jwder have been sifted — Mrs. G.CJreer 

RIBBON CAKE. 

1 cup butter. 2 and half cups sugar. 1 c<ip milk. A 
cups flour, 4 eggs, half teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar. Take out -^ of tlie inixture and add to 
it 1 cup raisins, 1 (;up currants, \ 11). citron, 2 table- 
spoons molasses, halt teaspoon c-loves. half teaspoon 
cinnamon, put together with jelly or icing, fruit loaf 
in the ceiitre.— E. L. P. 



W. R. THOMPSON 



When in town do not forget to call 
on W. R. Thompson for a good sett 
of Home Made Harness. Also 
dealer in Boots, Shoes and Rubbers. 

57 Division-St. COBOURG 



lid CAKKS. 



POUND CAKE. 

One ;uul a luilf c-iips wliile siig;ir, 1 eu)» of ot'gs 
(0(jn;»l 1(1 foiii), one iiiiil half ciijis Horn-, 1 cuj) l)titter. 
.Mix Hoiii- ami laitter togi-llier until like a paste, l)e;it 
eggs and sugar well, mix all together Stirling well. 
Bake iti a niDileiate oven. — Mis. A. E. Eaglesoii. 

RICE FLOUR CAKE. 

1 11). i-!ce flour, 1 II). gr.mnlated sugar, 10 eggs, 
beat eggs separately, then add sugar, heat all well 
then add flour and l)eat 20 minutes. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven HO niiinites. Let stand 48 hours hefore cut- 
ting. — Mrs. M. P^i!5her. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

1 large cup butter beaten to a cream, 2 cups light 
brown sugar, 5 eggs, 'A cups flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 
teaspoons cream tartar, 1 of soda in milk, 1 nutmeg. 2 
te.ispoons cinnamon. 1 teaspoon mace, 2 oz. citron, 1 
(Mip raisins when stoned, 2 cups currants. Bake 4 lirs 
in slow oven. \Vill make one large cake.— Sara.h M. 
Field. 

STRAWBERRY CAKE. 

2 eggs, 1 cup white sugar, half cup butter, 1 tea- 
spoor.ful soda, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, a little sour 
milk or l)oiling water, 2 cups flour and lastly 1 cup 
strawberries. — Mrs. A. Eagleson. 

SPANISH BUN. 

Half cup butter (small cup). 1 cni> white sugar. 2 
egps, I and half cups flour. 2 and half leasj^oons cin- 
namon, 2 te.ispo :)ns liaking powder, half cup sweet 
milk. Mix flour, spice antl baking |iowder thorough- 
ly. Bake in a moderate oven. — Sarah M. Field. 



" Ccfcourg's Leading Store." 

J. H. ROONEY 

Dealer in Fresh and Salt Meats.Staple and 
Fancy Groceries, Provisions and Fruit. 
Cheese, Teas and CofTees a specially. 

Largest dealer in Cobourg in ail kinds 
of Fresh, Frozen and Salt Fisli. 

House Phone 34. Store Phone 80. 



CAKES. 37 



PRINCE OF WALES CAKE. 

White part — 1 cup flour, half cup coin starch, half 
cup sweet milk, half cup butter, 1 cup white sugar, 2 
teaspoons baking fiowder, whites of 3 eggs and flav(U'- 
ing. Dark part— 1 cup dark sugar, half cup butter, 
half cup sour milk, 2 cups flour,l cup chopped raisins, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon molasses, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, yolks of 3 eggs, lemon 
peel, 1 teaspoon clo^•es. — M. H. Forrest. 

CREAM FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cup crown sugar, 1 egg, butter size of an egg, 1 
cup sour cream, 2 cups flour (even), 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
and half teaspoon cinnamon, nutmeg, ^ spoon cloves, 
1 and half cups raisins. Bake in a loaf,— Mrs. Hayden. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar,! tablespoon butter,2 eggs in a cup fill 
with sour cream, i cup sweet cream, 1 teasjioon soda, 
1 teaspoon cream tartar, 1 and half cups flour, divide 
mixture and put chocolate in one half.— Sarah Adams. 

CHRISTMAS CAKE. 

IJ lbs. of butter, 1 and half His. sugar, 10 eggs, 2 
and half lbs. raisins, 2 and half lbs. currants, half lb. 
almonds, half lb. mixed peel. I nutmeg grated, 1 tea- 
spoon mixed spices, flour to make the right consis- 
tencv.— Mrs. Willis. 

PORK CAKE. 

Take 1 lb. of fat pork and put through chopper> 
add 1 pint boiling water, 1 cup nu)lasses, 2 cups sugar, 
1 heaping teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 of 
nutmeg and cloves, 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. currants and 8 
cups fiour. — Mrs. George Greer. 



Cobourg Dairy Farm 

Best place to get Pure Milk and 
Cream. Delivered fresh every 

morning to all parts of the town. 

Jos. Greer & Sons 

Phone 167— four rings. PROPRIETORS 



38 CAKES. 

MAGIC CAKE. 

Half Clip butter. 1 cup sn^ar H cups flcitif. H ei?gs. 
8 tablespoons milk, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, half tvn- 
spoon soda, 1 cup chopped walnuts.— Mrs. \V. .1. liriii- 
ning. 

DELICIOUS CAKE. 

One and a half cups white sngai-, 1 cnp bntter, 1 
cup milk, H cups of flour or a little less, 'i teaspoons 
baking powder, 3 eggs. Bake forty minutes. — Ida 
Whimselt. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

1 cup granulated sugar, 6 eggs beaten senarately. 
1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 saltspoon of 
.salt, ij the juice and grated rind of one lemon. After 
biking, while hot dredge powdered sugar on top. — 
Mrs. W. .T. Brinning. 

CRUMB CAKE. 
One cup white sugar, 2 cups flonr, 2 tablespoons 
butter — rubbed tr)gether with the hands. Add 1 cup 
raisins stoned and chonpod, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon cloves. Wet all well with 1 laige cup of 
l)utter milk, in which dissolve 1 teaspr)on of baking 
powder. Sj)read in tin and bake in nioderate oven. — 
Mrs. Climo. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One lb, flour, ? lb. raisins, r lb. currants, i' lb. Sul- 
tana raisins, half lb. butter, half li). sugar. ^ lb. al- 
monds, J lb. mixed peel, 2 teaspoons ginger, 2 tea- 
spoons cinnamon, 2 te.ispoons nutmeg, 2 teaspoons 
soda, 2 eggs, and enough milk to make the right con- 
sistency. Bake 2A hours. — Mrs. (-limo. 



DEMPSEY 

MY YALET 

LADIES' AND GENTS' CLEANING, 
PRESSING AND REPAIRING. 

Next to Dunham House. DIVISION ST. 



CAKES. 39 



COFFEE CAKE. 

One Clip innlasses, 1 cup brown stigjir, 1 cnp cold 
coffee, halt' cup butter, 4 cm})s siftea flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 small teaspoon allspice. — Mi-S; 
Tuipin. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

One cup white sugar, one cup butter, 2 cups flour, 
.'J eggs, 2 teaf^poons baking powder, flavoring to taste. 
— Miss J. Eagleson. 

KING EDWARD CAKE. 

One and ha'f cups of brown sugar, half cup but- 
ter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour milk, 1 and half cups flour, 1 
and half cup raisins, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 
half nutmeg grated, 1 tcrispoon cinnamon. IJake in 
layers and ice with cocoanut icing. — Mrs. Pollock. 

DARK RAISIN CAKE. 

Hiilf cup molasses, half cup butter, half cup sour 
milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 eggs,8 c\ips 
tlotn-, 1 teaspofin soda, half cup citron, spice to taste. 
— 3Irs. Steven Olnev. 

DARK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Hiilf cup grated chocolate, one eill milk(ha!f cnp), 
half cup brown sugar, boil these together as thick as 
cream and let cool. 1 cup brown sugar, half cup but- 
ter, 2 beaten eggs, ^ cup milk, vanilla flavoring. Mix 
well, beat in the boiled mixture, add 2 cups floiu' sift- 
ed with a large teaspoon baking powder. B;ike in 
biyers ami put together with boiled frosting or in loaf 
tin. — Miss Pauline .Tackson. 



A. M. PETERSON 

Barrister, Solicitor, Etc. 

• 

COLLECTIONS WILL RECEIVE CAREFUL 
ATTENTION. 

Company and Private Money. 



■10 CAKES. 



HERMIT CAKE. 

Tliree egpfs. 1 cnp biilter, 1 lb. of dates cut fine. 2A 
cups Hour, lA cups Itrowii HU}>;ir. ^ U). chopped w.il- 
r.uls, 2 tefispooiis essence lemon, 2 teaspoons essence 
vanilla, a little cinnamon, 1 teaspoon sola in a very 
little water. Bake as fruit cake about H hours. — 
Miss Jean Jackson. 

TEA CAKE.S. 

Half H). of flour, half teaspoon of baking soda, 
half gill of milk. 2 oz. butter, a little .sugar, mix all 
Avell together.— Miss Annie Hircock. 

BISCUITS. 

Half lb. butter— beat to a cream, half lb. flour, 1 
egg, 6 ounces of sugar, 1 oz. fif carrawav seeds, mix 
into a paste. Roll out and bake in a slow oven. -- 
Miss Annie Hircock, 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

1 lb. sugar, giated rinds (if 'i lemons and juice of 
;■) eggs wtll beaten. 4 oz. fresh but ter. Put butter, 
sugar and lemons on fire until melted, let cool a little 
and add the eggs, then l)oil all together imtil thick as 
lionev. — .Miss Annie Hiicock. 



GIFTS. 



XMAS GIFTS. BIRTHDAY GIFTS 

WEDDING GIFTS. 

Pleasing Gifts for Young or Old at 
pleasingly low prices. 

YI. H. HOPPER 

Jeweler and Graduate Optician. 



KROSTINGg AND SAUCES. 41 

FROSTINGS AND SAUCES. 

•' Sweet, sweet, sweet, pt)i.son foi- age's tooth." 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING, 

1 cup white sugar, half cnp milk, h cup grated 
chocolate, piece of hiitter size of a thiiiible. mix and 
let come lo a l)oil, set in dish of cold wat^:?!* and stir 
until it thickens, flavor with vanilla. — E. L. P. 

SAUCE FOR FIG PUDDING. 

Butter size of an egg, I teaspoon fioiir mixed with 
l)utter, sweetened to taste, nutmeg and hoiling water. 
— Miss Marlha Field. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

1 cup water, 1 tahlespoon corn starch, juice and 
rind of half a lemon, I tahlespoon hutter, grale lemon 
into water and let itoil, mix corn starch and sugar,stir 
in and Itoil 5 minules. Just hefore serving add hulter 
and lemon juice. — Mrs. Harry Field. 

LEMON TASTY. 

Put into a saiicepan | Ih. f)f hutter, ^ Ih. of sugar, 
4 eggs, jieel of 2 lemons (grated) and jiuce of one lem- 
on. Put (Ml the stove and stir constantly till the in- 
gredients thicken, v. hich will he a few seconds after 
it hoils. When cold it is ready for use. Nice on cake 
or hiscuits. — Miss J. Eagleson. 

MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING. 

Shave two cups of maple sugar, put in granite 
sauce pan with lialf cup sweet cream, hoil till ithairs, 
then take off the stove, add a few drops of Manilla and 
heat till creamy. Spread on cakes, — L. S. P. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING FOR CREAM PUFFS. 

Mix ^ cup of flour with I cup of white sugar. Stir 
in 4 cup of hot milk and cook 1(3 minutes stirring of- 
ten. Beat I egg and add gradually. Melt an ounce 
and a half of chocolate, or three tahlespoons of cocoa, 
dilute with hot mixture, stirring till smooth, then sta- 
in rest of the mixture, and set aside to cool, Wash 
the salt from one cup of hutter, dry thoroughly, heat 
to a cre.im and add gradually one cuf) powdered sug- 
ar. Beat all together and flavor with vanilla. — Mrs, 
Stock well (Maine). 



42 PIES. 

PIES. 

" Who'll tlai«' (li-ny t lie litUh there's ))oetrv in pie." 

LEMON PIE. 

2 lemons, rind of one ;ui(l juice of two, 2 coffee 
cups of wliite SMf^iii-, l)iece of hutler si/e of walnut, 
yolks of 4 e^^s and use wliites fr>i* icinji: and 2 coffee 
cups of hoiiJMg watei-, H hihlespoons coin starcli. Put 
on Hlhiifr to cook hefore putting corn slarcli in. — Miss 
Martlia Fielil. 

LEMON PIE. 

1 cup water. 1 cup su<^ai-, yolUs 2 eggs, piece hut 
ter sixe of an egg. 1 cup hread crnuihs. grated rind 
and juice of I hunon. Bake in (uie crust same a.> 
|)uu:pkin pie.— Mrs. A. Eairieson. 

DATE PIE. 

Stew I 11). dates in water until soft, jiut Ihiongli 
<()lander; there should now l)e ahout one cupful. Adil 
1 (|t. milk. 2 heaten egg.s, season with spices as pump- 
kin pie. Bake with one crust. This makes 2 pies.— 
Piymoulli Cook Book. 

LEMON PIE. 
1 lemon, 2 eggs, 1 cup iiot water. 1 heauing tahle- 
spoon coin starch. Mix c<irn staich with a little cold 
watei", add l)e,iten yolks (wliites reserved for top),a(hl 
siigai and lemon juice and stir in boiling water, also 
grated rind of lemon. -Mrs. Harvev. 

CH.ACKER PIE. 

.'i soda hiscuits rolled fine. 1 cup molasses. 1 cup 
brown sugar. 1 cup weak vinegar, 1 cup chopped lai*- 
ins, 1 tea.spoon cinnamon. This makes H pie-j. — Marv 
L. On. 

^^M. DeLANY, Jr. 

Select Stock of Xmas Gifts. 

Diamonds, Jewellery, Novelties, 

ENGRAVING FREE. 
Expert Watchmaker d Engraver. Opp. P. O 



PIES. 43 



CHOCOLATE PIE. 

INIake a crust and fill with following— 2 eggs, 2 
tanlfsuoons corn .staich, ,j^ flip v. liile sugar, 2 table- 
sj)ooiis grated chocolate and 2 cnps milk. Heat nn'lk, 
sugar and cliocolate together, add the corn starch 
mixed in a little cold milk and the heat»n yolks of 
eggs, let it hoil up. Beat whites with 2 tahlespoons 
white sugar,put it on top and brown slightly in oven. 
— Mrs. George Greer. 

COCOA NUT PIE. 

2 eggs, 2 cups milk, half cup cocoanut, 2 table- 
spoons white sugar, add any flavoring desired and 
l>ake in she!!. — Airs. George Greer. 

BANBURY TARTS. 

Chop a cup of seeded raisins and 2 ounces of cit- 
ron peel, add a cwp of sugar, tlie grated rind and juice 
<)f a lemon, a little salt and a lieaten egg. Place on 
rounds of pastry, brush halt the edge with cold wa- 
ter, l)ring tlie other lialf over tlie mixture and press 
t!ie edges together witli the tines of a fork. Bake in 
a moderate oven.^ — Mrs. A. F. Pollock. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon rind and juice, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup wa- 
ter, 1 taltlespoon corn starch cooked in w.iter till 
thick, H eggs, 2 of whites saved f(»r frosting, Iialf cup 
sugar. — Miss J. Eagleson. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat tlie yolks of 3 eggs to a cream. Stir tlior- 
ouglily a tal)lespoonfu! of sifted flour into H table- 
spoons of sugar. This separates tlie particles of flour 
so that tliere will be no lumps. Then add it to tlie 
beaten yolks, put in a pinch of sa!t,a teaspoon of van- 
illa, and a little grated nutmeg, next the V/ell-beaten 
whites of eggs, and lastly a pint of scalded milk (not 
Doiled) wliich has been cooled. Mix this in by de- 
grees and turn all into a deep pie-pan lined witli puff • 
paste, and bake frotn 2.") lo HO minutes. 'I'his recipe 
was received from a celebrated cook in New York. 
Inquiring from him why liis custard pies had that 
look of solidity and smoothness that our home-made 
pies liave not, he replied. The secret is the addition of 
tliis bit of flour, not that it thickens the custard any 
to speak of, l)ut prevents the custard from breaking 
or wheying and gives it a smootli appearance when 
cut. — Mrs. Frederick Field. 



4i PIKS. 



LEMON PIE. 

4 Clip of wliitp sng.ir, 1 t.i1)lespnnn floiii-, gr.ilcd 
liiulof 1 lemon, jiiice of 2. 1 lahlcspoon luilU*!-. yolks 
of H egffs ,ind wliile of 1. keep whites of 2 for the inei- 
injjiie for top.lie.it all well toj<etlier aiid add 1 cup liot 
water. Cook in doiilile lioiler. Keep .stiirinj^ coii- 
stantlv till done. liake shell hefoie filliiiK- -Kale. 

PATCHWORK TAHT. 

Line a pie plate with cjood paste, roll out some 
very narrow strips and lay across the paste to form (i 
or nine divisions, hake in hot oven, anil when cool iill 
each space with marmalade, led jelly and green gage 
jam.— Mrs. C. 'J'aylor. 

MINCE MEAT. 

G Ihs. apples, 4 Ihs. heef (uncooked I. 2 llis. iaisins,2 
Ihs. snet, 2 Ihs. hiown sngar. 1 oz. cinnamon. 1 o/. 
cloves, half «;7.. nutmew, nn^lMten with lioiled cider. — 
Mrs. .las. David.- on. 

MINCE .MEA'l', 

1 11). chopped laisins.l and half Ihs. cnrranis, 607.. 
tnix^d candid ))cel, ] Ih. chopped heef snet, H large ap- 
ples (chopped fine), 1 II). sngar.l teaspoon e.ich of cin- 
namon, nutmeg and cloves. — Mrs. E. (1. Murphy. 

DATE PIE. 

1 111. dales, 1 scant cup currants, gi.itcd 1 ind of 1 
lem )n. stone dates and i)nt stones in a sauce pan with 
1 cup of water, 1 cup hi-own sug.ii-, J)idp and juice of 
lemon, let come to Ji l)oil, str.iin and add juice to the 
mixture and put in covered dish over night. Bake 
with lower and upper cru>t. — .Miss F^.ittell. 



USE 

Johns' Lilac Cream 

For Chapped Hands, 
Face and Lips. 

0. G. JOHNS, - Chemist 



PUDDINGS. 



PUDDINGS. 

" One thing i.s always sine to pk^aso. 
Just give llieiii piiddirgs .such as tlu'se." 

HELSTONE PUDDING. 

2 tahlespoons each of raisin.s, ciinants.sngar.coni 
staicii ami tloiir, 8 t;il)lespoons hread c-niinhs.Hof titie- 
iy ciioppad suet, half a teaspoon niixe(' spice, some 
(raiidied |ieel, salt, and 1 leaspoon l)akiiig j)o\v(ler. 
Mix well and moisten witii milk. IJoil in l)tilLeifd 
monid 2 iionis. — Mis. Tannahiil. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING. 

2 eggs, half cup hiitter, h.ilf cup sugar. I cup Honv. 
1 leasp'ion soda, 2 tahlesptions ias|)l)eii y Jam, add 
.soda hMt dissolved in a little watei-. Steam 1 liour.- 
JMrs. \V. J. Biinning. 

PLAIN SUET PUDDING. 

Chop 4 oz. of suet finely, add to it 1 ih. flour, I 
teaspoon i)aking powder, and a little salt, mix with 
sufficient cold watei- to make stiff. Flour the |)udding 
cloth and boil 1.;, hours. — Mrs. (t. Page. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Mix 4 tablespoons flour and \ teaspoon salt to- 
gether. Beat up 1 egg and add \ |)int milk to it, pour 
gradually ui)on tln^ Hour, mix tlioroughly a!:d beat 
the mixtme until it is (piite smooth and light. Melt 
some dripping in a baking tin ami when it is quite 
hot, pour in the mixture. R.ike .about h hour. (^ut 
into squares and serve hot. The batter is lighter by 
standing some time before it is baked.— Mr.s. (i. Rage, 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Put slices of hre.)d and butter int(» a jiie dish, 
sprinkle currants between each layei- ;ind on top, pour 
;i beaten egg and 1 ^, oz. sugar in a pint r)f milk over 
the hread and butter and bake in a moderate oven for 
1 hour. Improved by standing .i while before cook- 
ing.— Mrs. G. Page. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cu]i of flour, 1 teaspoon soda. Add 2 cups 
choiijHMl suet. 1 snnill ciq) of sour milk, 1 cup of Jam. 
Mix .ill together well and steam 2.j or li lionrs, — Mrs. 
J. ('. Rosevear. 



Ii5 PUDDINGS. 



PIXM PUDDING. 

1 small loaf lne.ul, 1 qiiait flour, 1 11). suet, i U). 
l)iitter. 2 lli5. .sLoiieil raisins, 2 Uts. cuiranls, ^. ll». cit- 
loii, 2 oz. leiimii. :S mitmt^j^s. 12 eggs. 2 llis. light luowii 
Migar, 1 ()/,. ciMiiamoii, 2 tt-aspoons salt. alls|)ice and 
ginger. .Mix (lie tliifkncss of pound cake, with ahont 
a pint new iiiilU. Hoil hoins. This niixtnie will 
make several puddings, half can he used if liked. — 
Sai-.iii M. Field. 

INDIAN TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

8 lahlespnnns tapioca (soak it overnight if the 
whole tapioca). In the morning put the tapioca ami 
one quart milk in a double hoiler to cook. While this 
is '■r)oking, heat togethei- 2 tahlespoonfuls Indian 
meal, J c^np niolasses, a little salt, I small te.ispoon 
ginger and liutter the size of an egg. Stir all into the 
milk and let it tliicki'U. smooth hy stirring constant- 
ly. Now add one cup cold n)ilk without stirring it. 
Cover and hake in a moderate oven 8 or 4 hours. — 
-Mrs. K. C. Goodhue. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

1 Ih. Stoned raisins, 1 Ih. currants, 1 Ih. sugar, 1 Ih 
chopped suet, 2 cups hre.ul cruml)s, 6 oz. mixed c.-nid- 
die(l peel, 2 apples chopped fine, 1 giated nutmeg, 
pinch of salt, "» eggs and pint of ndlk. \\'hip the eggs, 
add nulk, put in hiead cinmhs. thicken with flour to 
m ike a hatter stiff enough to hold the spoon, add all 
the othei' ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Dip the 
pudding (loth in hoiling water, ruh it over with lard, 
then dust it well with tloui-. Put the pudding in, tie 
securely and hoi I for 8 hours.— Mrs. E, G. Murphy. 



GET THE HABIT 

WHEN TRAVELLING 
BUY YOUR TICKETS AT 

Hawley'sTicketOffice 

KING-ST., COBOURG. 



PUDDINGS. 47 

^ ___ 

W WELL PUDDING. 

Make a gi>()cl suet cinsl with plenty of currants, 
roll into 2 round pieces, one smaller than the otliei', 
take h pound hntter and 3 cups brown sugar, lay on 
small piece of crust and gather into a l)all. nla(;e large 
piece over the join and fasten tightly to keep the syr- 
up in, tie in a cloth and l><)il for 'i hours, — 3Irs. G, 
Taylor. 

OLD FASHIONED BOILED PUDDING. 

To make a pudding light as cake. 

One quait of cream you first must take, 

Or wanting that, good milk will do, 

By adding butter thereunto. 

Four eggs and then four spoons of flour, 

And boil it in a cloth one hour. 

— Mrs. G. Jackson. 

STEAM PUDDING. 

One egg, 3 tablespoons of water, .3 tablespoons of 

sugar, butter size of a walnut, ^ cup of flour, beat till 

light. Put any kind of fruit in the bottom of a jiud- 

ding <lish and cover with the batter. Steam h hour. 

' Serve with sauce. — Miss J. Eagleson. 

f 

; FIG PUDDING. 

* One cup of suet chopped fine. 1 cup bread crumbs, 

lialf lb. of figs, chopped fine, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 
3 eggs and a cup of milk, a teaspoon of cinnamon if 
likea. Steam three hours. — Miss Martha Field. 



Standard Bank of Canada 

ESTABLISHED 1873 

$1.00 will open a Savings Bank Account. 
Why not have one. 

J. M. Sutherland, 

COBOURG BRANCH. MANAGER 



■18 LIGHT DESERTS. 



LIGHT DESSERTS, 

" Tliere were nisses ;iiul jellies and cieaiiis, 
Tilings tliat give ns in tiuLli ugly ihejiins." 

PRUNE WHIP. 

One 11). pinnes. whites of H eggs, half cnj) siigar, 
half teaspoon xanilla. Cook jjiinies: in (•olil water un- 
lil soft, .strain and stone and heat with othei' ingre- 
dients. Put l)oiled custard on top and then pile on 
whipped cream. Use yolks of eggs for custard.— Evu 
Uatlell. 

DELICATE PUDDING. 

Two f^niall cups hoiling water in a douhle sance- 
])an,l cui) white sugar, 3 even tahlespoons corn starch 
dissolved in a little cold water, hoil ahout five minutes 
sliriingall the time, t1a\i)rwilh essence of lemon — 
1 tea^^poon. Meat the whites of 'A eggs stiff, and pour 
into tlie coin starch, heat till well mixed, ])nt into a 
mouUl. With the yelks of the three eggs and 1 pint 
of milk, sugar (o taste, make a hoili-d custard, flavor 
with vanill.i. ]viten cold.— Sarah .M. I'^ield. 

LEMON PUDDLNG. 

liind a'ul jnice of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 2 cup.s hoM- 
ing watei-, yolk of 1 egg. 2 tahlespoons corn starch, 
salt, COOK and let cool. 'I'heii lake 1 cup milk, I tahU- 
sp(»(in sug.ir, 1 tal>lespoon corn starcli, cook till thick, 
and add the heatcn white of an egg .tnd put over the 
lemon custard. Serve cold.— Mrs. .J. Jackson. 

SNOW BALL PUDDING. 

Half <;up hutter, 1 cup sugar, cream together. 2h 
iiips flour, H level teaspoons haking powder, half cup 
milk, sift dry ingredients, whites of 4 eggs folded in, 
steam in jiudding moulds liO minutes. — L. IC. Fisiier. 

SAi:CE FOR Pl'I)DL\(J. 

1 tahlespoon corn starch, half tahlcspoon cocoa, 
lialf cn|) sugar, 1 tahlespoon hutter. 1 jiint sc.ilded 
milk, yolks of 4 eggs. Cook till it thickens, tiien 
llavor.- L. E. Fisher. 

OR.\N(JE PUDDING. 
I'^ive oranges peeled ard cut in slices. 1 cup gijin- 
ulated sugar sprinkle«l over them, 1 pint lioiling wa- 
ter, .'{ eggs using y(dks only. 1 tal)lespoon cornstarch, 
Ktir until tliiclieiied, use whites of eggs for top. — Mrs. 
Service. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. . 49 



MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

This is made by preparing a lemon jelly f5rst,then 
after poufing a very little of it into a plain round 
mould, arranging in it a ciicle of halved marshmal- 
lows; when tliis first layer sets on ice. put in more of 
the jelly, which can he kept warm on the back of the 
stove, this time set the marshmallows on edge around 
the sides, and the third time lay them down in a cir- 
rle again, and so on, so that when the mo.ild is tuined 
out the white spots will sppear at regular intervals. 
Serve with whipoed cream.— E. L. P. 

VELVET CREAM, 

Thicken 1 pt. (jf milk with half box of gelatine, let 
it melt in the heated milk, when wilk is cold add to it 
a pint of cream which has been sweetened and flavor- 
mi to taste. Pour in mould and put on ic3 to stiffen. 
- Mrs. G. Jackson. 

PRUNE SHAPE. 

Put prunes on in cold water, let come to a boil 
and boil 5 or 6 minutes, turn into colander and run 
cold wa3er over them, then stone, then lay in mould 
three parts full, 1 pt. water, 4 oz. sugar, teaspoon van- 
illa, teaspoon cochineal, half oz. gelatine, melt gela- 
tine, then add water and other ingredients, boil and 
strain over prunes. Seive with whipped cream.— E. 
Hornby. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

1 lb. suet, 1 lb, bread crumbs, half lb. nirist sugar, 
2 eggs, juice of 'S lemons and grate 2 of the rinds, boil 
'i hours. — Miss Annie Hircock. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

8 tablespoons flour, 4 of bread crumbs, 4 of cnr- 
lants, 4 of laisins, 6 oz. suet, 2 oz. mixed peel, half 
teaspoon mixed spice, 1 teaspoon b.powder.iJ eggs and 
half teacup milk. — Mrs. George Hircock. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

" A busy life the housewife leads. 

Who cans, preserves and pickles for her needs." 

COLD TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 peck ripe toniates, peel and cut fine, 1 small cup 
salt, 1 large L-up sugar, 1 teaspoon musUud seed,l tea- 



'^0 . PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

spoon ccleiv seed. 1 teaspoon Cayenne peppei-, 1 pint 
good vinegar, 4 tahlesponns grated hoise radish Stir 
well and ln-ttle.— -Mrs. J. C. Rosevear. 

CRAB APPLE MARMALADE. 

Crab apples and sngar pound for jionnd, 1 lenion 
to everv 2 lbs. apples, ginger ront to taste. Peel, core 
and qnai ter apples, slice lemon very tliin. do not cut 
them up. Boil together till quite thick. — Mrs. A. F. 
Pollock. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

1 peck lipe tomatoes sliced, 4 onions sliced. 2 lieads 
celery minced, 2 Ihs. hrown sugar, 4 oz. salt. 2 oz. 
\vl)ile |)ep{)er, 2 oz. allspice, halt" oz. cloves. 1 teaspoon 
("ayenne pepper. 1 pint vinegar. Boil slowly tor 2 
hours. Cool and rub through a sieve. This is delic- 
ious. — Mis. Climo. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

2 large heads of cabbage, 15 onions, 30 large ripe 
cucumbers. 1 pint grated horse raddish, 1 oz. celerv 
seed, half cup white nnistard seed, h.ilf cup gi-ound 
cinnamon, iialf cn|) turmeric powder. Cut all fine ;ind 
pack in salt over night. In the morning diain and 
put the mixtnre to soak in vinegar and water for a 
day oi- two. then drain again .uul add s|)ices. Boil 1 
and half gallons vinegar and 4 lbs. sugar and |)onr ov- 
er the mixture hot. Do this 3 mornings, then add i 
lb. ground mustard. — Mrs. .);is. Davidson. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 peck ripe tomatoes, 1 oz. whole cloves, half oz. 
.•lUsnice, half dozen red peppers. .3 onions, 4 ap|)les. ] 
head of celery, half oz. whole black pepper. Boil thor- 
oughly, beat through colander, boil again for 1 hour, 
adding 1 cup vinegar and 1 lb. brown sugar, salt to 
taste. — Mrs. M. L. Orr. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Cover 1 dozen oranges with water and boil until 
skin is soft enough to easily insert head of a pin. When 
cool thinly slice the peel and .shred the pulp in small 
pieces. To every lb. of fruit add 2 lbs. of sugar, half 
pint of water in which oranges were boiled and the 
juice of 4 lemons, boil 1 hour. (Jood. -^Irs. (i. .Jackson. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 51 



TOMATO CREAM. 

12 large apples, 12 large lipe tomatoes, 12 large 
onions, boil till smootli and put llnough sieve, atkl 1 
(\t. malt vinegar, ill), nnistard,! 11). brown sngar, Cay- 
enne |)epper and salt to taste. Mix vinegar and mus- 
tard thoronghly so as to be free fiom lumps and cov- 
er vegetables with water before boiling. — Gertrude 
Harvev. 

PEAR MARMALADE. 

Slice four lemons fine and let stand 86 hours in 1 
qt. of water, peel and slice very fine 8 lbs. of pears, 
cook lemons 1 hour, then add pears and cook 1 hour 
longei-.then add 7 ll)s. ui while sugar and cook 1 hour. 
—Harriet Watt. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

2 (its. cucumbers. 2 (jts. onions, 2 qls. tomatoes, 3 
heads cauliflower, 6 green pejipers cut, soak the veg- 
etables 24 hours in brine. Tak(^ I lb. mustard, 1 oz. 
turmeric, 4 cups sugar, 2 cups floui, mix these togetii- 
er and stir into 1 gallon boiling vinegar, then put in 
vegetables and cook slightly. — Mrs. George Greer. 

INDIA PICKLE. 

Put half lb. whole ginger, half lb. mustard seed- 
half lb. fine salt, half lb. mustard. 2 oz. turmeric jiow* 
der, 2 f)7.. Cavenne,2 oz. black pepper in 1 gallon vine- 
gar, then add as iinmy v''f^kles as the mixture will 
cover aftf-r scalding them in a little of the vinegar. — 
Mrs. Geoige Greer. 

BEET PICKLE. 

1 quart raw cabbage {chopped fine). 1 qt. hoiled 
beets, 2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon sa!t,l teaspoon black 
pepper, | teaspoon Cayenne pepper. 1 teacup horse 
radish, cover with old vinegar, seal /'.irtight.— Miss J. 
Eagleson. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

Take 10 lbs. of tomatoes, peel and put one pint of 
vinegar over them, and let stand over night. Im the 
morning j)ut in a colander and diain. Make a syrup 
of 1 ((t. (if vinegar, '.i lbs. of brown sugar, 1.^ cups of 
juice (t(Mnato), 1 tablespoon salt, i teaspoon red pep- 
per. Fill in a nmslin l)ag. 1 tablespoon whole chives, 
I ot allspice and 1 of stick cinnamon. Let syrup get 
hot liefore adding tomatoes. Boil slowly five hours. 
Leave spices in till flavored sufficieDtly. — Mrs. Harrv 
h^ield. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVKS. 



MINT SAUCE. 

Mix 1 tahlesponn iif white siignr .iiul luilf cup 
vinegar, add mint chopped fine, lialf teaspooti salt, 
serve with icA-ist hiiuh or inittton. — Mis. M. Fisher. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

30 ripe tomatoes, .3 peppers, 4 heads of celery, 4 
onions, 7 cui)s vinegar, 1 cup sugar,4 tahlespoons salt, 
chop vegetables line, add vinegar, sugar and salt, and 
hoil until thicK, about one and half hour.- Miss .1. 
ICagleson. 

TOMATO RELISH. 

1 peck ripe tomatoes, peel without scalding, chop 
fine and let stand over night. In the morning drain 
well and add 2 cups chopped celery. 2 cups white sug- 
ar, 1 large onion, 2 oz. white mustard seed, 1 (juart of 
vinegar,salt to taste. Do not cook. — Miss. J. Eaglesoii. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

1 peck ripe tomatoes, 3 cups vinegar, 1 and half 
cups sugar, half cup salt, 1 and lialf cups horse radisli 
(grated), 4 large onions chopped Hue. Two teaspoons 
ginger (ground), 3 teaspoons ground cloves, 3 te.i- 
spoons ground cinnamon (lie spices loosely in small 
muslin l)ag), 1 red pepper. Hoil 1 hour. — Mrs. Stephen 
McBride. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

4 quarts ereen tomatces, 1 quart small onions, 2 
qts. cucumber. 2 cauliflower, 1 head cabbage, 2 green 
peppers, cut all in small pie«"es and let stard in light 
brine twenty-foui' lioiirs, then boil in new brine for 
ten minutes, drain one hour. Dressing to pour over 
pickles, talilespoons mustard, 1 teaspoon turmerio 
powder, 2 cups sugar, 1 <rup Hour. Mix with water to 
ff)rni a paste, add two (jnarts vinegar and I pint w.i- 
ter. When boiling stir in pickles. — Mrs. Scephen Mc- 
Bride. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

Kour lbs. ripe tomatoes, 2 lbs, granulated sugar, 
I pint vinegar, half ounce cinnamon, stew ail togeth- 
er until tomatoes are soft,then take out tomatoes and 
simmer down juice, then put back the tomato»'s and 
iioil un»il thick. These are delicious. — Mrs. Mitchell. 
-Monti eal. 



CANDY. 5:5 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

12 manges, 12 lemons, 3 pints water to 1 II). frnit, 
2 ll)s. siigai' to 1 of frnit. CJut the oranges veiy line, 
let them remain in the w.itei- all night, j)nt pips in a 
l)3\vi of water holdiiig about a quart and let them re- 
main all night and strain them and put with tlie oth- 
er ingredients. Let it all boil up till tender, without 
the sugar, ;ind then put in the sugar and hoil for an 
hour, or till it jellies, (irate the lemons lU'l strain in 
the juice List thing. — This makes an excellent mar- 
malade. — E. Hornhy. 

PINE APPLE PRE.SERVES. 

To each Ih. of frnit 1 cup of water and ■{ Ih. of 
sug;ir. Boil the fruit and water for half an hour he- 
fore r)ntting the sugar in, then for another half hour 
the syrup gets thick hut not stiff. Cut or shied the 
])ineapple in any preferred way. 



CANDY. 

"I can teach sugar to slip down your throat 
u million of ways." — Decker & F(jrd. 

ICE CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups white sugar, half cu|) watei-, two-thirds 
teas|)oon cream of tarter. Boil till brittle in watei-, 
do not stir while boiling. After taking from stovt 
.uld 1 teaspoon vanilla, put in pan to harden a little, 
then pull.— Anna Stock well. 

HICKORY NUT CREAM CANDY. 

One cup white sugar, one-third cup corn syrup, 
one-ihird cup cold water. Boil until it balls in cold 
water, add beaten white of 1 egg. half cup nuts, van- 
illa, then beat until it augais, and spread on buttered 
pan. — Miss Lily Meuhle. 

COCOANUT ICE. 

One lb. of granulated sugar, \ pint of milk, hoil 
for 1.") minutes, stiiring occasionally. Take off stove 
and add \ lb. of desiccated cocoamit.stir in well. Have 
ready a greased tin, j>our in half of the mixture. To 
the remainder add 5 or 6 drops of cochineal and pour 
on top of the other. Put in a cool place to set. — Mrs. 
G. Page. 



niCVERAGKS. 



.\FAPLJ': CItEAM. 

Oiip II). Iiiown siigai", 1 Inifjje tablespoon Imtlei, \ 
Clip licli milk, mix well, lioil till it forms a s.ift ball 
in cold watcf. Hcmove from st.)ve and add h cnp 
ciio|)pt'd nnlsaiid tiavormg. Beat till it will just jionr 
nicely. — Mrs. Hayden. 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 

Two cnps of giann'ated snjjfar, melted. Pour over 
peanuts — .Mrs. Hayden. 

PLAIN NUT TAFFY. 

One 11). Ill-own sufifai-, 1 tablespoon butter. \ tea- 
spoon salt. .Add water sufficient to mix well, boil till 
(piite brittle. Add nuts and pour on buttered plates 
Lo cool. — Mrs. Hayden. 

FRENCH (REAM. 

Add to the white of an ej^g an eijual amount of 
col<l water, Havoi-, stir in confectioners" sugar until 
stiff enough to mould. Put half a walnut, on top. 
Put on waxed paper to dry. — Plyinoutli (.,'ook Ho(d<. 



BEVERAGES. 

" One sip of this will bathe the drooping 
spirits in <lelight beyond the l)liss of 
dreams."— Milton. 

CHRISTMAS CORDIAL. 

Five leiiuins, ~> lbs. sugar, .5 (piarts water, ."> cents 
worth tartaric acid, 'M red peppers, 2 tablespoons 
Jamaica ginger, 2 tablespoons burnt sugar, slice Itm- 
ons into jar ;idd other ingiedieiits. Pour on the five 
(pmrts boiling watei-, cover tight and let stand over 
ntglit- In the morning strah) and bottle. — The Ply- 
Munth Cook Poi)k. 

GINGER CORDIAL. 

Sixteen pints water, do not bring water In a boM 
;it first, 2.">c worth w hit(> sugar, when sugar is dis-Holv- 
ed add as follows— r»c worth burned ^ugar, oc woitli 
essence ginger, "k; woith essetuc cayenne, 5c worth 
«'s.sence tai laric acid. — Mr.s. J. C. Roseveiir. 



BEVERAGES. 



GRAPE WINE. 

Take 20 lbs. giape.s and l)rui.st%a(l(l 2 quarts waler 
and l)ring to a lioil, strain through clieesecloih. add- 
ing a very little water it necessary. Add (5 |l)s sugar 
1(1 juice and l)od 5 minutes, bottle and seal. — Mrs. 
Cieorge Gi'eer. 

CHOCOLATE EGG-NOG. 

Yolk of 1 egg beaten with one heaping teaspoon 
of sugar, pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon of melted choco- 
late, a few drops of vanilla,a gl iss of rich milk.AVhite 
ofegg l)eaten light with one teaspoon jiowdered su- 
gar; heaped up on the egg-nog. This makes a nice 
change from tlie ordinary egg-nog.— E. L. P. 

DANDELION WINE. 

Four quaits of the blossoms, four quarts of water, 
4 lbs brown sugar, 2 oranges, 2 lemons. Put blossoms, 
water and sugar in i)orcelain kettle with the grated 
rind and skins of lemons and oranges, let simmer on 
stove for 8 or 10 hours, then let come to a sharp boil 
for 1.5 nnnutes, .Stiain through colander into an 
earthen crock, and when ndlk warm add one cake of 
Eleishman's yeast. Let stand for a few days before 
bottling. Skim it ea{;h day while in the crock. A 
healthy beverage for spring. — Mrs. .1. T. Webster. 

MI'.K SHERBET. 

Squeeze the juice of 6 large lemons on 4 cu])s of 
sugar, put the skins with a pint of water on the fire 
and let simmer 10 minutes. Scald 2 (juarts of milk 
\vith 2 tables[)oons of cor'i starch and 1 cup of sugar. 
Wh(>n cold put in the freezer, and when it begins to 
stiffen, add the syrup of lemon juice and sugar, then 
freeze. This is more delicious than ice cream. — E. B. 



ORANGEADE. 

Cut 4 oranges in two,and with ra tablespoon S(;oop 
out the juice and pulp of each ])iece, reserving one to 
giate up rind included. Carefully remove seeds and 
sw(^eten to taste. Add three pints of cold water. — 
Miss Battell. 



.-,0 USEFUL HINTS. 



USEFUL HINTS. 



MIXTURE FOR SORE THROAT. 

r* cents worth of l.inniii, 2 cents worth of sulphur, 
2 cents worth of ahiin, 1 dessertspoon of while sijr.ii'. 
Hlow tills into the thi-o.it evei v hour — as much as can 
Ik- taken np on a 5 cent piece. 

FOR QUINSY OR SORE THROAT. 

Make a ponllice of 2 teaspoons of finely powdered 
camphor, and a tahlespoon of lard, put next to skin 
and tie on well with flannel. 

FOR COM) ON THE CHEST OI? 
HOARSENESS. 

Get .'j cents worth of Fiiar's Balsam and pnt one 
teaspoonfnl into one j)int of i)oiling water and inhale. 
Pnt towel over the head and draw long hreaths over 
the steaming l)owl. 

COUGH MIXTURE. 

Half pound of molasses, dissolve in ajtint and 
half of hoihng water, vhen cold add 3 cents worth of 
paiagoric, '.i cents wortli essence peppermint, .'{ cents 
iaudainnn, and .'{ cents of anise seed. Mix well and hot- 
lie ticht. Ahont two teaspoonfnls a dose. 'J'his is 
very good. — Mrs. George Hircock. 



Buy Your Drugs and 
Toilet Articles 

AT 

Y/ebster's Drug Store 

Phone 125. King'St., Cobourg. 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING. 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING. 



A couple of drops of flavoring in white of egg thai 
is to be beaten will prevent settling if it stands. 

Equal qnantitie'5 of flonr and niilk will stir into a 
smooth paste for thickening. 

If salad dressing curdles when cooked, beat it well 
with an egg beater. 

After draining potatoes shake them in a breeze to 
make them dry. 

A handful of washing soda put over the sink drain 
and left to dissolve, will cut the grease in the pipe. 

Wnen washing lace curtains, fold several times 
before wetting and they will not tear when wrung. 

In baking custard or pumpkin pie, pin a strip of 
white cotton or paper around to prevent the crust 
from breaking down. 'J'he same is nice when frost- 
ing a cake. 

Very small empty bottle on a writing desk to 
hold a fountain pen is nice to keep it upright. 

A thimble put over the end of a brass rod when 
putting on lace curtains prevents tearing. 

When a tape needle is not at hand, use asafety pin. 

Try a small paint brush when greasing tins. 

The crust of gread if buttered when warm, will 
not crumble when cut. 

Put dry bread through a meat grinder and set 
.iway for future use in place of cracker crumbs. 

Try putting eveglasses in alcohol and rubbing 
with a soft cloth to clean them. Diamonds top. 

A little bc^rax in starch prevents the iron from 
slicking, also gives a nice gloss. 

Equal parts of borax and insect powder will rid 
a house of cockroaches. 

A teaspoonful of oxalic acid in a cupful of water 
applied with a brush whitens a straw hat. 

To have glassware very brilliant, wash in cold 
water instead of warm, and wipe dry. 

For fruit stains on hands, us9 lemon juice. 



r)S BREAD AND ROLLS (Siipplenienliuy). 

For blood stains soak and wash in cold water ; 
when brown rub with soap and warm water. 

To remove n)ildew wet the cloth in soft water 
and then rub on plenty of soap and salt and hang on 
line in the sun and air for a day or two. This is an 
infallible recipe. 

Use a teaspoon of alum to a cpiart of water in 
star<-liing calicos and ginghams to keep the colors 
bright and fresh. 

Sweet stains should be subjected to a very strong 
soap solution and allowed to lie in the sunshine. 

Fruit stains may be softened with alcohol, then 
pour on boiling water. 

To get the best results in washing, soak clothes 
over night in cold soft water. This will make your 
washing easy and your clothes white and stainless. 

In preparing turkeys for the oven cut the black 
skin at the joint oi' just below it and you will see the 
cords expi>s('d. Take hold of these with your linger 
and |)ull out. This is called coi-diiig turkevs and un- 
less you have tried it you have no idea of results. 

A liot iron pi-essed on old putty or boiling water 
poured on the same will make it easy to remove. 

A few drops of alcohol rubbed on the inside of 
lamp chimneys will remove all trace of greasy smokH 
when w.iter alone is of no avail. 

Pumpkin seeds are good bait for mice. 

To taka milk or cream spot out, niake a lather of 
white soap in cold water. Wash out in cold water 
and rinse. 



BREAD AND ROLLS-(Supplementary). 
CREAM SCONES. 

Sift together 2 even cups of flour, 3 even ten- 
spoons baking powder, a little salt, work in 4 desseit 
>pr)ons of butler, 2 well beaten eggs, .\ cu|i of Ihin 
cream or good milk. Mix to a dough. Tin n on a 
Hour board and roll , in(;h thick, cut in shape, jiick 
with a fork, brush with whitf* of egg and sprinkle 
with sugar and hake in a hot oven 15 minutes. — Mrs. 
.1. T. Field. 



BREAD AND ROLLS (Siipplenientary). HO 



HOT CROSS BUNS. 

Make a sponge of L\ cups of milk, half a yeasL 
cake dissolved in half a cnp of waiiu water, and flour 
enough to tnake a thick hatter, set in a warm place 
overnight. In the irMrniiig add two large spoonfuls 
of nutter melted, h cup of sugar, a saltspoon of salt, 
and as much cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Work in 
more flour until the dough can he handled, kneading 
it well. Covei' and let rise in a warm corner for 5 
hours longer, then roll o>it in a sheet half an inch 
thick and cut into rounds like hiscuit, lay them on a, 
huttered cooking pan and let rise half an hoin*. When 
they are haked to a light hrown hrush over wilh 
white of egg heaten up with fine sugar.— Mrs. .T. T. 
Field. 

BREAD. 

6 good sized potatoes pared, hoiled and peeled. 
Then mash and pour water in which they have heen 
hoiled har-k over them, add flour to n)ake soft hatter 
and 1 yeast cake soaked in tepid water for .SO minutes, 
set in warm place to rise and ahout 9 add .S dippers of 
warm water and add flour to make soft hatter. Let 
lise over night, add sufficient Hour to make a stiff 
dough, and one handful salt, Knead and let rise 
again after which knead and put into pans. Bake 
from 1 to li hours. 

FOR BUNS.- Take part of the dough, add 1 cup 
sugar, 1 cup lard and hutter mixed, and 1 cup of cur- 
rants.— Mary Niles. 

POTATO YEAST. 

4 good sized potatoes pared and grated, 2 quarts 
of hoiling water poured on 1 handful hops and then 
strained on the grated potat(\ Let set till milk warm. 
Put in 1 cup of yeast and add 2 quarts of hoiling wa- 
ter. This makes 1 gallon. Add h cup salt and 1 cup 
snger. Bottle and cork tight. — Mrs. M. E. Appleby. 

BREAD. 

Two quarts of new milk just milk warm or 2 qts. 
milk warm water, 1 cup of yeast, add flour to mould, 
set in warm place to rise. Early in the morning break 
(lown and knead and set to rise again in pans. Bake 
1 hour. Tliis makes four 2 lb. loaves. — Mrs. M. E. 
Appleby. 



INDEX. 



PAGES 

Soups 3-4 

Fish 5-8 

Entrees 8-9 

Meats 10 15 

Vegetables 1C> 111 

Salads 20-21 

Bread 22-25 

Cookies and Doujjjlinuts 2G-H2 

Cakes 33 40 

Fi-ostinas and Sauces ^ . . "41 

Pies 42-44 

Puddings 45-47 

Light Desserts 48-40 

Pickles and Preserves 49 53 

Candy 53-54 

Beverages 54-55 

Useful Hints 50 

Things Worth Knowing 57 58 

Bread and Biuis (Sup|)k'nit'ntary) 58 50 » 

The Cobourg V/orld 

Largest Circulation in the County. 

Job Work T. B. LAPP, 

A Specialty. Proprietor ^ 



Phone 96. 



Estab. 1832. 



DIRECT 
IMPORTERS 

OF 

Staple and Fancy 
DRY GOODS 

Cobourg Agents for Priestley's (of 
London, Eng.) Noted Dress Goods. 
Richardson's (Belfast) Celebrated 
Irish Linens. 

Carpets, Linoleums, House Fur^ 
nishings. Furs and Ready'tO'Wear 
Clothing. 

• 

COBOURG'S 
LARGEST STORE 

Field (^ Bro 



When sending Money away you will find it cheap- 
est anrd safest to send it through 

The Metropolitan Bank 

('apib'.l Paid Up - Sl.tWO.OOO.OO 
Reserve Fund an4»Undi- 

V id gd Profits - 1,2+1.532.26 

'■^- T, S. CHATTERTON, 

C'ODOt'KO BltA^( H. MaNAGICK 



When anything is required in the Meat line, 
a!v>/ays try 

The Busy Meat 'Market 

.Where they handle only the best. 

MAKER & GARRY, 

Phone 227. Opposite the Post Office. 



Royal Household & 
Five Roses l^loiir. 



The I.adi»-.s of. tl: 




Clinich dn!»«'r\''e in- 




Cook Bouli, but v>\: 


:.i ii 


V)e without Roy (vit'l 


!'i\ (.A 


Itosfts Flaur;'t \vf; 


: full 


line of stoves t-^' ■•' 


l„^l 


but not least, v 




1.. .t w.s. . 





THE 
Thompson-Macdonald Co. 



