
LIBRARY 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

SANTA BARBARA 



FROM THE LIBRARY 
OF F. VON BOSCHAN 



LIBR&fflT 



VIENNA BREAD: 

INSTRUCTIONS * RECIPES. 



BY 

CHARLES & JAMES SCOTT. 



Xon&on : 

THE "BAKER AND CONFECTIONER," LTD., 
61 & 62, CHANCERY LANE, W.C. 

1909. 




Printed by 
'HAMPTON & CO., 

12-13, 

Cursitor St., 

London, E.C. 

* 





CONTKNTS. 

PAGE. 

PREFACE. 5 

CHAP. I. INTRODUCTION 9 

II. FLOUR . . . . . . . . 12 

III. MILK, FAT, YEAST .. 17 

IV. OVENS AND STEAM . . . . 24 

V. METHODS : SPONGING . . . . 31 

VI. METHODS : STRAIGHT DOUGHS, 

FERMENTS, ETC. . . . . 36 

VII. MATURITY OF DOUGH . . . . 44 

VIII. MAKING UP LARGE ROLLS . . 48 

IX. MAKING UP SMALL ROLLS . . 56 

X. BAKING THE ROLLS . . . . 73 

XL MISCELLANEOUS 81 



PRBKACE. 



I HAVE been asked by the authors of this book 
to write a Preface to it, and I have no hesi- 
tation in responding to such a reasonable 
request. I do so with all the more pleasure because, 
in my opinion, the matters treated of in this book 
are of the very greatest practical importance to the 
baking trade. The baker, so far as the ordinary 
varieties of bread are concerned, differs from most 
other manufacturers in not being able to expect any 
increased demand for the goods which he supplies. 
The growing prosperity of the country and we have 
increased enormously in wealth during the last twenty 
or thirty years has led to a largely increased demand 
for most commodities, and the manufacturers of 
those commodities have had with them all along the 
great advantage of an expanding market. With the 
baker, so far as household bread is concerned, the 
case is entirely different. Exact figures are unfor- 
tunately wanting, but there is no doubt that the per 
capita consumption of bread has sensibly diminished. 
When the first Bread Act was under discussion it was 
stated that three-fourths of the population lived 
almost entirely on bread. That remark was probably 
quite true at the time it was made, but we have 
travelled a long way since then, and the facts are 
now entirely different. Well-to-do people eat very 
little bread, and even the working classes, so far as 
the adult members are concerned, are not the heavy 
consumers they once were. The children are still 
there, and big families still mean a large consumption 
of bread. But there is no elasticity in the demand 
for the baker's chief commodity, and a great deal of 
the excessive competition about which bakers are 



6 PREFACE. 

continually complaining is due to this unpleasant 
but significant fact. When we come, however, from 
household bread to those fancy varieties which may 
be roughly classed as Vienna Bread, the case is quite 
altered. Here the baker may find an expanding 
market and abundant possibilities for the future. 
People who won't eat bread simply because it is the 
cheapest food will eat it if it appeals to their palate. 
Bread as one of the necessities of life is on a largely 
reduced footing ; bread as one of the luxuries of the 
table has a great future in front of it. It is to be 
noted that there is already a certain vague sort of 
demand for these fancy varieties of bread. One is 
almost tired of hearing people, after a few weeks' 
experience of foreign hotels, complain that they 
cannot get in England " the delicious bread we find 
on the Continent." Of course they can get it, but 
they cannot get it easily enough or readily enough, 
and so go on grumbling at the household bread and 
eating as little of it as they can. The leading restau- 
rants and hotels are quite alive to this, and do not, 
as a rule, offer their customers slices or chunks of 
household bread. Their fancy bread is not always 
of the best, but, at any rate, the fact is recognised 
that people do for the most part prefer these fancy 
varieties. What people like abroad they like at 
home, and there seems no reason why Vienna Bread 
should not be regularly found on the tables of most 
well-to-do or fairly well-to-do households. And let 
the trade just consider what a possibility this opens 
out of increased business and increased profit. 

Only this bread must be the real thing, and not a 
mere pretence. The warning with which our authors 
have opened their work is emphatically necessary. 
There seems to be an impression in some quarters 
that fancy shapes are all that is necessary to develop 
a trade in fancy bread. The public is not going to 
be beguiled in that way. If a trade is to be built 



PREFACE. 7 

up in Vienna Bread, it must be built up by bread 
which is nice to eat and not merely pretty to look at. 

The development of the Vienna Bread business 
is again of immense importance from the journey- 
man's point of view. The introduction of 
machinery has displaced a large amount of labour, 
and there is no increased demand to find occupation 
for those who are thus thrown out of work. The 
journeyman's organisations are pressing on with 
their Hours of Work (Bakehouses) Bill, not only 
and not so much because they object to long hours, 
but chiefly because they cherish the hope which 
will probably turn out to be delusive that the 
shortening of hours will provide occupation for the 
men now out of work. Let the trade consider what 
an immense amount of fresh employment would be 
found by the development on a large scale of a 
trade in Vienna Bread. Let them calculate on the 
basis, say, of ten sacks converted from household 
quarterns to Vienna Bread, and see what a difference 
it would make in wages to workmen and in profit 
to masters. 

Probably what we have said above has already 
occurred to a good many bakers. Yet the field 
which promises such a fertile crop remains to a large 
extent unoccupied. That this is so is probably due, 
not so much to lack of enterprise as to want of proper 
knowledge. It is this want which this book is in- 
tended to supply. It has been written throughout 
with the most rigid attention to practical require- 
ments, and practical bakers will be at no loss in under- 
standing the directions given. The names on the 
title-page are pseudonyms. The authors do not 
desire to disclose their identity, but it may be said 
that they are both thoroughly practical men, and 
have for a long time past been engaged in turning 
out the goods which they describe in these pages. 
The object of the book is twofold : it is intended 



8 PREFACE. 

in the first place to help those who are already 
making Vienna Bread, to suggest to them new 
varieties and improved methods of working. But it 
aims also at popularising Vienna Bread with the 
trade, and at inducing bakers to take up a branch of 
business which will give satisfaction to their 
customers and bring profit to themselves. How 
far this second result is likely to be attained I won't 
pretend to prophesy, but if in this respect the book 
meets any great measure of success, its publication 
will form an event in the history of the trade, and 
the authors will be able to congratulate themselves 
on having rendered the most substantial service to 
the calling to which they belong. 

EDITOR, "BAKER AND CONFECTIONER." 



VIENNA BREAD. 



Chapter I. 



INTRODUCTION. 

VIENNA bread is not now so popular in this 
country as it was a few years ago, and 
the reason for this probably is that the public 
knows now what to expect when it asks for this 
article. You can humbug the great British public 
for a time, but sooner or later generally sooner 
it (like your sins) finds you out. The British 
public has found that the Vienna bread it has 
been buying generally has been a delusion and a 
snare, and to a great extent it steers clear of it now. 
It is unfortunate that the British baker should lose 
any chance of turning an honest penny, but when 
we say that in many places Vienna bread is nothing 
more than a piece of tin loaf dough shaped long, 
hacked with a knife, baked, and smeared over with 
bill-stickers' paste, then the only wonder is that the 
great B.P. did not find it out long ago. 

But what is Vienna bread ? Let us give a definition. 
Vienna bread is to common bread what the light 
Continental confections are to solid slab cake and 
plum pudding. It is not a bread fit for appeasing the 
appetite of a farm labourer. It is the bread of breads, 
with a sweet milky nuttiness about it which makes 
one think involuntarily of golden wheatfields and 



io VIENNA BREAD. 

lowing kine. It is that bread which makes one 
wonder how the baker can put such a grand flavour 
of butter in without the bread in any way feeling 
heavy or greasy. It is bread with a soft creamy 
crumb and a glossy golden crust, with a crispness 
about it that is absent in all other breads. It is the 
bread you can eat when you have no appetite ; it is 
the bread you buy from the baker when you have 
plenty of bread in the pantry ; in fact, it is the bread 
that once eaten will always be eaten. 

Now, it needs no comment of ours to bring home 
to the average baker the fact that there is very little 
bread answering to the above description on sale 
anywhere, and that is exactly what we want to 
emphasise at the commencement of this book. 
To make Vienna bread to command a sale, it must 
be made different from other breads, not only in 
appearance, but in flavour ; and it might not be 
out of place to point out that the people to 
whom this bread appeals do not mind whether 
the twopenny roll weighs ten, twelve, or fourteen 
ounces, so long as it eats all right. This is an 
age of cheapness, unfortunately, and the baker 
feels that unless he gives a big chunk of bread his 
customer will go elsewhere. This may be all right in 
some things, of course, but when he starts on Vienna 
bread he ought to take for his motto " Quality." 
Unless he does this, puts in good material, exercises 
every care, both in fermenting and finally working 
off the dough, he would perhaps be more profitably 
occupied making " pony " loaves. 

The London Exhibition seldom draws out any 
great samples of Vienna bread, contrary to what 
might have been expected that is, of course, in 
our opinion and so we have no ready means of 
showing what good Vienna bread ought to be like. 
In the following, however, we will try to explain how 
good commercial Vienna bread ought to be made. 



VIENNA BREAD. 



ii 



All the points will apply to the baker who already 
possesses or is contemplating erecting a Vienna 
oven ; but due importance will be given to the needs 
of the man who may wish to try a small lot, but 
who has neither the wish nor the money to build a 
special oven for the purpose. 




12 VIENNA BREAD. 



Chapter II. 



FLOUR. 

THE all-important ingredient in Vienna bread, 
we need hardly say, is the flour, and if the 
prospective Vienna baker wants to make a 
trade in this bread or, if the expert Vienna baker 
wants to keep the trade he has got then he must 
bake the best possible flour he can afford. Spare the 
quality of this and you spoil the bread ; in fact, 
unless you are prepared to bake good flour, your 
customers will require some persuading to try a 
second lot, particularly if your every-day bread 
is of fairly good quality. The present writers are 
fully cognisant of the conservatism of the average 
British matron in the matter of bread, but she is 
not yet proof against the kind of Vienna bread 
we have in mind. 

First of all, then, let us explode the theory that 
really good Vienna bread can only be made with 
Vienna flour. The reader of, these lines probably 
does not require to be told about the superlative 
merits of what some bakers call Vienna and others 
call Hungarian or Austrian flour. Like many other 
things this type of flour is not what it used to be, 
although top grade still commands fancy prices ; 
however, this is perhaps beside the mark. The fact 
is that we have found it almost impossible to make 
first-rate Vienna bread from Vienna flour alone, 
although we ought to qualify this statement by saying 
that this refers more particularly to the larger size 
rolls loaves, we might almost call them. For 



VIENNA BREAD. 13 

flavour, however, there is no doubt that a good dash 
of Vienna flour, if not actually necessary, is, at least, 
very desirable. 

In practice, we have found that for small rolls, 
i.e., horseshoe, Kaiser, etc., two parts of Vienna 
flour and one part of Minnesota is hard to beat. We 
are quite prepared to hear that these two flours are of 
almost opposite natures, and therefore do not make 
an ideal blend ; but in spite of the theory advanced 
that only flours of a like nature blend well, we have 
always found these two flours to work well together. 
One thing about these flours is that each stands a 
large quantity of water, and probably this is the reason 
why we find them blending together admirably. For 
the larger rolls, those weighing about a pound, we have 
found that one part each of Vienna, Minnesota, and 
English-milled Patent, makes an almost perfect 
mixture for first quality bread. This blend produces 
rolls of a quality which there can be no two opinions 
about, if the goods get half a chance ; but, of course, 
every baker is not able to bake first grades of these 
brands. In such a case, he will still do well if he 
sticks to these types and buys slightly under top 
price. Referring back to good Vienna flour, we hope 
it is not out of place here to say that of these flours 
we have found such flours as "Victoria," " Empress," 
" E.O.P.," " Five Crowns," etc., to work splendidly. 
Might we also say that grand Vienna bread can be 
made from English-milled flours entirely, although, 
curiously enough, some Hungarian process flour (flour 
made specially for Vienna bread) we have found too 
soft for our system of working. Such high-grade 
flours as " Millennium," " National Choice," " As 
You Like It," etc., make beautiful Vienna 
bread ; and if there is a difference, it is that while 
English milled flours give a crust which may be 
likened unto Australian gold, a proportion of high- 
grade Vienna gives an African gold tinge. 



14 VIENNA BREAD. 

At any rate, the Vienna baker, or prospective 
Vienna baker, in selecting a good flour or flours, must 
not forget that some comparatively dear flours carry a 
great deal more water than some comparatively cheap 
ones, and so it ought to resolve itself into a case of 
whether the dear flour does not produce more dough 
by taking up extra water. We might add that in 
some places the blend of flour is softer than that 
given, while in others quite half the mixture is 
made up of Minnesota flour. In the first case, 
the bread is slightly small and close, but deliciously 
sweet, while in the second case the rolls are large, 
the texture approaching to that of a tin loaf, and 
the flavour almost nil. 

It may be taken as a general rule then that the 
more strong flour in the mixture, the larger the 
bread and the poorer the flavour. It need not be 
assumed, however, that big rolls can be got only with 
strong flour, because that is not so. What is really 
wanted is a sound flour of medium strength, or a 
blend answering to that description. By sound flour 
we mean flour which will take a normal quantity of 
water and carry it well, without going soft and 
sticky. 

That flour is best which, in addition to having the 
good properties already spoken of, will retain its 
tightness in dough during fermentation. Some flours 
as fermentation goes on "fall away"'; the dough 
becomes softer, so that it is necessary when making 
up a second lot of dough to make it slightly tighter 
than it should be ; this is not a good feature in flour 
for any kind of work, and it should at least be avoided 
for Vienna bread, just as the flour which grows 
tighter as it ferments should also be avoided, although 
we prefer this to the other. Many of these flours are 
all right, of course, when blended, so it may be taken 
that we mean that any blend of flour used should not 
have the undesirable characteristics referred to. If 



VIENNA BREAD. 15 

a trade is to be built up in Vienna bread every little 
drawback should be eliminated, and doubtful samples 
of flour used up in other ways, because at least the 
beginner will find enough worries for a little while 
without adding unnecessary ones. 

In first grade bread the colour of the crumb calls 
for a little attention, although it is not the leading 
feature of any crusty bread. In the larger rolls the 
crumb colour shows up, but if a flour is used which 
with proper fermentation gives a clean-looking 
crust, the crumb colour is generally all right. The 
crumb of a good flavoured Vienna roll is never white, 
except possibly when fermentation has proceeded a 
little too far ; cream is the ideal. Flavour should 
rank first, and we might here say that although a 
good deal in this respect depends on the fermenta- 
tion, probably a great deal more than the average 
baker thinks is dependent on the flour. Raw flour 
has a flavour of its own, but the average baker 
seldom thinks of tasting flour. A little experience 
in the tasting of flour teaches us a good deal, although 
we should not like to say it is a good and reliable 
guide to what the flavour of the resulting bread 
will be. One important thing, however, will be 
easily detected by tasting, and that is whether the 
flour is sweet ; bitterness, sourness, and fustiness 
will be easily detected much more easily detected 
than in the finished loaf. Flour becomes bitter, and 
sour sometimes, through age, but more often through 
being stored in a comparatively warm, moist atmos- 
phere, such as is often found in the flour loft above 
the bakery, and this flour, although it may make 
bread with a fairly good smell, will never make 
sweet-eating bread : once bitter, always bitter ; once 
sour, always sour. " Fustiness " may be easily 
detected by tasting, but it may also be smelt easily. 
Fustiness is generally the result of storing in a 
damp, badly ventilated store, and never will make 



16 VIENNA BREAD. 

either good-smelling or good-eating bread. Do not 
be deluded into believing that fustiness will "bake 
out," because it will not ; and, remember also, that 
the flours most liable to go wrong in the ways spoken 
of are the tender, good flavoured, softer varieties. 

We will not take up more space now discussing 
flour, our subject is rather Vienna bread, and we do 
not think much as we should wish we would be 
justified in dilating on flour, except in so far as it 
concerns Vienna bread. A few words, then, sums 
up the whole subject select the best flour you can 
afford, which flour should be of all things sweet and 
free from taint ; it should not be used straight from 
the mill, neither should it lie in the store until it 
grows hoary with age ; a creamy shade is the best 
colour, and it should be tough or the reverse, just 
as you wish bigger or smaller bread, the happy 
medium being the ideal. 




VIENNA BREAD. 17 



Chapter III. 



MILK, FAT, YEAST, ETC. 

THE next item of importance is milk, and a 
great many bakers do not appreciate what a 
good proportion of milk in bread means. 
The average British baker is not afraid of adding 
a bit of lard and some sugar ; he knows just 
what to expect from a pound of lard ; but he 
has quite crude ideas on the addition of milk. 
The milk comes into the bakery, but, " What a 
shame it is," he soliloquises, " to use good milk in 
bread." So he winks at the water tap and has a good 
drink of milk to start with ; then he takes a little more 
and puts it aside for his tea ; then he adds what is left, 
and is displeased with the very little difference there is 
between the milk and the all-water bread. 

Of all milks fresh full-cream milk is the best, and 
ought to be used with water in equal quantities. In 
certain places on the Continent certain breads are 
made with milk only, but half milk and half water 
gives excellent results. We are not sure if bakers 
generally have noticed the binding effects of milk. 
With a large proportion of milk the bread does not 
spring so well, something seems to hold it from filling 
out nicely ; that is what we mean by " binding 
qualities." When such a thing occurs the proportion 
of milk ought to be reduced to one-third to two-thirds 
water, and all such trouble will disappear, or a larger 
proportion of fat should be added. If this does not 
effect a cure make the dough softer, and you will 

B 



18 VIENNA BREAD. 

have no further trouble. But, if separated milk 
can be had cheap, it certainly ought to be used, 
and in this way. As most people are aware, separated 
milk is simply fresh milk minus the cream or butter 
fat. Now, as butter fat is seldom over four per cent, 
of the total milk, and very often a good deal less, 
it is not an expensive job replacing it, particularly as 
it is not necessary to add the same kind of fat (butter) 
as was taken away. A quart of separated milk, 
then, and 2 ozs. of good sweet lard or neutral fat, 
make quite as good bread as does fresh milk. At 
any rate, do not be deluded by the common feeling 
that separated milk is thinner, and therefore that 
the use of more of it is necessary, because that is 
quite wrong. 

Let there be no mistake : one gallon of separated 
milk and 7 ozs. of fat equals one gallon of fresh new 
milk. But there are other milks ready to the hand of 
the baker ; the most important, because the best 
known and most popular, being sweetened condensed 
milk. This milk is a most desirable substance from 
a hygienic, an economic, and a handy point of view. 
It may be used with water alone, or in conjunction 
with separated or whole cream milk, with the reserva- 
tion that it must be used for what it is, and if it is 
condensed separated milk fat must be added to com- 
pensate for the missing butter fat, as before spoken 
of. Full cream condensed milk is best, of course, 
but the baker will get almost as good results with 
" condensed skimmed " (separated) with the addition 
of a little fat ; and he will find it much cheaper 
and much more economical. It may lack flavour 
to a slight extent, but the difference in cost is so 
great that it becomes a question of whether the 
slight difference in flavour is worth the cost. This 
m2k should be used at the rate of one small tin 
and 3 ozs. of fat per gallon of water, and the baker 
must assume that no shortening is being added 



VIENNA BREAD. 19 

that is, if he is using shortening he must not count 
this. One thing worthy of note about sweetened 
condensed milk ; it acts as a yeast food, so that 
yeast food is undesirable, generally, when sweetened 
condensed is in use. 

Unsweetened condensed milk is also to be had, 
but the other suits the baker so well that it is not 
worth his troubling about something which will 
cost him more and give him no better results. Lately, 
however, a new substance, dried milk or milk powder, 
has been offered the baker. This substance is sup- 
posed to be the solid constituents of milk, and 
should be dissolved in warm water before use. There 
is no added sugar present, and to get a liquid equal 
to half milk and half water about 8 ozs. to 10 ozs. per 
gallon of water should be used. In buying dried milk, 
contrary to the procedure referred to in buying con- 
densed milk, have nothing to do with dried skimmed 
milk. The writers have vivid memories of some 
experience with this substance. For a new brand of 
dried whole milk now on the market we have nothing 
but praise, and we think it not improbable that 
before long it will be widely used. 

Fat. 

Referring, then, to fat, it is most important that a 
little of this should be used, but its addition should 
never be allowed to interfere with the sweetness 
of the flour. If the public wants bread, give it bread ; 
if it wants cake, let the confectioner attend to that. 
Speaking of fats, then, the fat par excellence is butter ; 
but although this is used in some places, we hardly 
think the result warrants the cost incurred. We have 
no hesitation, then, in saying that where butter is 
used, either the trade in Vienna rolls is a very high- 
grade one, or the parties using it are very stupid. 
Most excellent results are got by using half margarine 
and half good lard, or half margarine and half 



20 VIENNA BREAD. 

of any of the very fine neutral fats now adver- 
tised. Some bakers think butter gives the roll a 
really grand rich flavour, but in the proportion in 
which it is used it is hard for the present writers to 
believe that any other sweet fat with a proportion of 
margarine will not do quite as well. We seldom use 
butter, and we make some high-grade bread too. When 
adding fat, allow f oz. of salt to all saltless fats ; and 
if you should be using butter and wish to change, 
allow only 13 ozs. of fat against every pound of butter, 
because even in good butter there is about 3 ozs. of 
salt and water in every pound. We would like to 
impress this on bakers generally : it is no advertise- 
ment puff to sell a butter substitute ; it is a statement 
of simple fact. The semi-legal standard for good 
butter allows sixteen per cent, of salt and water, 
which is over 2.\ ozs. per lb., but 20 per cent, is common 
and 25 per cent, (or 4 ozs. per lb.) is not unknown, 
while poor vilified margarine has seldom more than 
8 per cent. Lard also has a very small proportion 
of water and no salt, and some of the fine and 
cheap substitutes may be said to be water free. 
Whatever fat is used, however, should be made 
very soft before adding to the dough. Some 
bakers melt their fats, and although there is much 
to be said for this method, it most certainly ought 
not to be followed if butter is used, because if 
butter is used it is to get flavour. The flavour of 
butter depends, among other things, upon the presence 
of certain substances that are easily volatilised by 
even moderate heat, so it is reasonable to suppose 
that less flavour is got in the bread if the butter is 
previously heated this is an undoubted fact. The 
same applies to margarine, but in a lesser degree. 
Don't melt these fats then, soften them with moderate 
heat and manual labour if you want to preserve 
the flavour. 



VIENNA BREAD. 21 



Yeast. 

From what has gone before, the reader will be pre- 
pared to hear that for not only first grade Vienna 
bread, but for all grades, we advocate the best yeast 
obtainable. We know of a Transatlantic journal 
which takes as its motto " The best is none too 
good for the baker," and we parody the phrase by 
saying " The best yeast is none too good for the 
Vienna bread baker." There are several very good 
yeasts on the market, particularly suitable for Vienna 
work, and the baker should make it a point to be 
content only with the best. The cost is nothing ; if 
good yeast is used, less of it will do the work, and do 
it better too. In this connection we have used the 
words " particularly suitable," and we wish to explain 
why a yeast is " particularly suitable." When the 
reader gets the length of our processes, he will notice 
that they are almost invariably short and the fermen- 
tation strong. This is how we get bread with that 
sweet nuttiness which is so desirable, but this can be 
got only by the use of not only a vigorous but a quick- 
working yeast, and yeasts vary a good deal in this 
way. For Vienna bread, that is the best yeast which 
brings the dough along fastest without using high 
temperatures. This kind of yeast will always produce 
bread of superior flavour, of greater bulk, and 
generally of brighter, clearer crumb. Some bakers, 
in selecting yeast, choose that yeast which, when 
dissolved in water, is lightest in colour. As a matter 
of fact, in this England of ours there is a district 
where a milky-coloured yeast is demanded by all 
bakers, and certain yeast firms, to our knowledge, 
cater for this fad (for it is a fad). We don't think the 
craze for white bread has got so far yet as to cause 
the baker to use pale-coloured yeast, although there 
is no saying where it may yet end. Meantime, the 
most desirable colour in bread is a creamy whiteness, 



22 VIENNA BREAD. 

and we are quite confident in saying no average 
yeast will interfere with that. But let our last 
word be : a thoroughly sound, strong, quick-working 
yeast is a most desirable article in the matter of 
Vienna bread-making. 

Yeast Foods and Etceteras. 

On this subject a good deal of ink has been spilt 
one time and another, and particularly since so many 
proprietary articles have appeared. On this latter 
part of the subject a great deal of cant has been written 
by both buyers and sellers, and we only bring in the 
seller here to assure him that many times we 
have known him (perhaps we had better say 
his agents) to make claims for his particular 
article which were, to say the least, ridiculous, 
and certainly were not calculated to ensure a 
repeat order. If the sale of proprietary yeast foods 
is to continue, they must be sold on their merit, and 
merit is what sells the best known brands. It is a 
simple question often asked, " Are these things any 
good ? " The answer is quite as simple : they are. 
If your bread is not quite the thing, a good yeast food 
will increase the bulk, improve the texture, help the 
crust bloom, augment the flavour, assist the colour, 
and it becomes a question of, not " Is it any good ? " 
but, " Can you afford to improve your bread in this 
way ? " (A friend of ours, who is a great yeast food 
disciple, says : " Can you afford not to use it ? ") Of 
yeast foods, or bread improvers, not of the proprietary 
description, the handiest is sugar good white sugar 
and many times we have found it very good. Then 
w r e have our old friend malt extract quite a desirable 
commodity, to say the least ; and our younger friend 
malt flour also a very desirable commodity, and pre- 
ferred by some because it is a handy dry powder. 
Liquid glucose is not unknown, but it has not much 
to recommend it. Also our dear old friend the potato, 



VIENNA BREAD. 23 

with its confrere scalded flour. These last three, 
however, may be left out of the art of Vienna bread- 
making so far as we are concerned, and we need not 
further discuss them. If personal affairs are of any 
particular use to the baker, then let us say that, 
when using yeast food along with condensed milk 
(sweetened) which, of course, is a food itself we 
prefer malt flour. As the whole subject is a some- 
what thorny one, however, we will close this 
paragraph by strongly urging all bakers interested 
to make tests for themselves. They will find no 
difficulty in getting trial samples, and they ought 
not to allow the mere cost of a good food to influence 
them. 

There is only one thing more we wish to say a word 
on, i.e., salt. Do not believe that one salt is as good 
as another. Any fine white salt, however, will do all 
right, and at any rate avoid rock salt. By rock salt 
we mean the salt with the rock in it. This salt is 
easily known by the pieces of stone or rock which 
settle at the bottom when the salt is dissolved. In a 
word, such a salt is low grade and ought not to be 
used in good-class work. 



24 VIENNA BREAD. 



Chapter IV. 



OVENS AND STEAM. 

AND now that we have given a few words of 
advice on the ingredients used in the making 
of Vienna bread, we take up the subject 
of ovens as being, if not the most important 
item in connection with the Vienna cult, at least 
one of the most important. The most apparent 
peculiarity of good Vienna bread is its beautiful 
gloss, and this gloss is got by the action of steam 
on the bread while it is baking. But if steam is to 
be used at all, not only must it be in abundance, 
there must be also some way of keeping the oven full 
up even when the door is open. The peculiar con- 
struction of the Vienna oven allows the baker to open 
and close the door as he wishes, without allowing 
steam to escape. The subjoined sketch, which is a 
rough sketch-drawing of a hot-air, or externally-fired, 
Vienna oven, will explain to those readers who have 
not seen a Vienna oven, perhaps better than words. 
The main idea is based upon the fact that hot gases, 
being lighter than the atmosphere, always rise (this 
is not quite the scientific way of saying it), and so the 
lowest part of the oven crown is made lower than the 
lowest part of the oven sole. This ensures that before 
steam can issue from the mouth of the oven every 
particle of every roll which may be in the oven at the 
time must be thoroughly enveloped. Before steam 
can issue from the oven mouth the oven must be full 



VIENNA BREAD. 25 

up in every corner. The difference between the 
Vienna oven and the ordinary bread oven will be at 
once apparent. When the oven door of the latter 
is opened, all the steam escapes, except a little, 
which lies above the level of the top of the door. 
Reference to the sketch will show that the sole is 
slanted. This becomes necessary in order to keep the 
oven full of steam down to the sole : it comes in very 
handy, however, when drawing small rolls, as the 
merest touch makes them trundle right out of the oven 




L, 3 ht 



Door 



Quo' 1 



without further trouble. One thing more about the 
Vienna oven it must not be high crowned, because a 
good sound heat is necessary first of all ; but, 
secondly, the steam present in the oven reduces the 
temperature greatly, and both science and experience 
has taught us that in such a case the source of heat 
must be brought pretty close to the object to be 
heated or baked if economy is to enter into the 
problem. Different builders have different ideas, of 
course ; but the main idea is not to allow a thick 



26 VIENNA BREAD. 

cushion of steam between the source of heat and the 
rolls. As to what type of oven is the best for Vienna 
bread, it would be difficult to say. We have seen 
excellent results from a steampipe oven (Vienna 
type) with the usual iron sole, and we have seen 
excellent results got from the hot-air type with tile 
soles. Also we have seen some of the finest Vienna 
bread it has been our pleasure to handle baked in a 
side-flue oven (Vienna type) that is, a side-flue oven 
with the sole slanted as it is in the sketch on page 25. 
One particular thing we like about this type of oven 
is that, when desirable or necessary, the main flue 
damper may be drawn out. The drawing of the main 
flue damper in this case is a different thing from 
what it is in the other types, because in^the former 
case it only affects the fires, while in the latter case 
it affects, in addition, the condition of the atmosphere 
of the oven, which is a most important thing : readers 
generally know enough about the design of a side-flue 
oven to understand what we mean. Under the head 
of " Baking," however, we will be able to better 
discuss the matter. As to utilising the ovens at each 
reader's convenience a good deal might be said, but 
this also we will be in a better position to treat on 
under the head of " Baking." What we are chiefly 
concerned about now is the typical Vienna oven 
with its necessary supply of steam. We may be taken 
as saying, then, that if much bread is to be made a 
Vienna oven with a proper steam supply will not only 
give best and most regular results, but it will also be 
found most economical. We favour a tile sole, 
but we are also quite prepared to agree that an iron 
sole does very well indeed. The small damper on 
patent oven in sketch we shall refer to under " Bak- 
ing," and meantime we have a few words to say on 
steam. We would specially draw the reader's 
attention to the damper handle as being very handy 
where dampers as in Vienna ovens are set high : 



VIENNA BREAD. 27 

to start this damper you pull the handle, which 
works on a pivot. 

The small damper could be easily arranged to 
be worked from the front of the oven and this 
would be very handy. 

Steam. 

A good deal of nonsense has been written about 
steam in connection with Vienna bread - making, 
at one time and another, but happily we are 
progressing towards the light. Some bakers in days 
gone by advocated low pressure for boiler steam, 
while others, more advanced (save the mark !), sought 
to show how equally good results could be got by 
either 6 Ibs. or 60 Ibs. pressure ; while later, we had the 
advocate of the happy medium. What may, for 
convenience sake, be called the low-pressure bakers 
denounced high pressures, because in such cases 
they said the steam is " dry," while any novice 
knows that for Vienna rolls " wet " or " saturated " 
steam is the ideal. Then the high- or any-pressure 
men retorted that no matter at what pressure steam 
was in the boiler, when it reached the oven when it 
emerged from the steam pipe it was at atmospheric 
pressure. The medium man then, like a second 
Daniel, advanced the scientific fact that when high- 
pressure steam is allowed to expand to a lower 
pressure without doing work, it becomes super- 
heated, or, if not actually superheated, the water 
with which it is saturated becomes steam and, there- 
fore, if we don't actually get superheated steam, we 
get dry steam. Now, it has been asserted that 
steam condenses on the cold rolls ; in fact, most 
people are agreed that that is so, but if that is the 
prime cause of the glaze, we cannot see why dry 
:steam will not condense quite as readily as satu- 
rated steam, because as often as not dry steam 



28 VIENNA BREAD. 

issuing from a pipe and particularly if the pressure 
is moderately high is cooler than low-pressure 
saturated steam. The truth is, however, that the 
glazing is not catised so much by the steam as by the- 
water mechanically mixed with the steam. Let us 
explain. Suppose you dip your finger in water you 
wet it, of course ; touch a piece of dough then, and 
you leave some of the water adhering. It is the same 
with steam. Steam is made in that part of the 
boiler where the fire strikes ; it rises through, and 
out of, the water, and, like your finger, is wetted ;: 
it is very easy to imagine, then, that the many 
millions of particles of steam passing off carry a 
great amount of water with them. The particles 
of steam are wet ; they are said to be saturated 
when we think of them collectively as an elastic fluid 
called steam. Immediately the steam comes in 
contact with the cool dough it is said to be con- 
densed, but it is really the water that is deposited 
which wets the loaf most. If corroboration of this 
be necessary, we have only got to look carefully inside 
the oven, and we will see moisture deposited on iron- 
work which may be easily 100 hotter than the 
steam, and we need hardly add that it is impossible 
to think of steam condensing under such conditions. 
In a practical matter like this, such things may 
be unimportant, but we are trying to make it clear 
that steam generation for Vienna rolls may be in 
fact, is quite a different thing from steam generation 
for power purposes. What may be very good in one 
case, may be very bad in the other. Of course, where 
steam is used as the motive force for driving" 
machinery, it can very easily be utilised in the 
Vienna oven. In this case, it is a very good and 
common plan to have a reducing valve fitted 
betwgen the boiler and the oven. Good results are 
got in this way, but we fancy a small generator close 
by the oven, or, failing that, we like to have the- 



VIENNA BREAD. 29 

boiler as near the ovens as possible. This may be a 
fad of ours, but, at any rate, in our long experience we 
have always got bast results in that way. Just a word 
here about the steam inlet. Some bakers like a pipe, 
extending the length of the oven, with innumerable 
small holes, but we have always found such to be 
superfluous ; a single jet extending a few inches into 
the oven is all that is necessary, and if this is placed 
in the corner the drips fall on a part of the oven 
sole which is never used. A drip cock must be fixed 
outside the oven, of course, to run off water before 
turning steam on ; but even then there will be a drip 
unless the steam jet is kept going almost all the 
time. That part of the oven which steam enters 
sometimes gets cool, and the long perforated pipe 
is an idea to overcome this drawback, but it is quite 
unnecessary. 

And here let us say that a proper supply of steam 
can only be got from a boiler or small generator. 
What is wanted is a large quantity of saturated 
steam, and this can be got only with the appliance 
indicated. Pots of water, steam setters, and such 
things are no earthly use for glazing purposes, for the 
simple reason that even an ovenful of these things 
would not generate a sufficient quantity of steam to 
glaze rolls. If steam is not available, the rolls can still 
be glazed in another way by the use of a preparation 
we will describe further on ; in such a case, however, no 
attempt need be made at producing steam. We 
have seen tins of water run into the oven ; but unless 
holes are plentiful in the bottoms of the tins, no 
appreciable steam results. With perforated tins, 
we get some steam, spoil the oven, and often some 
of the rolls, by the water spreading and running 
under them. We will conclude this dissertation on 
steam by reiterating what we have already said : satis- 
factory glazing steam can only be obtained from a 
pressure boiler or generator, as volume is wanted ; 



30 VIENNA BREAD. 

also, as a Vienna oven does not require a vast amount 
of steam, a high-pressure will be found quite unneces- 
sary from 5 Ibs. to 15 Ibs. will do all right 10 Ibs. 
being, in fact, quite high enough. Steam will be 
further referred to when we come to the baking of 
the rolls. Meantime we will proceed to explain how 
they are made. 



VIENNA BREAD. 31 



Chapter V. 



I 



METHODS : SPONGING. 

N writing what follows now we have aimed first 
and all the time at simplicity. The careful 
reader will note that in quantities given a 
definite aim has been kept in view ; that aim is to put 
the formulae in a way that will enable the reader not 
only to grasp the details, but to remember them. In 
the making up of Vienna goods (any goods, for that 
matter) it is imperative that a standard be fixed to 
work from so that when filling up an order some idea 
may be arrived at as to how much flour, water, etc., 
is necessary ; how much of the several constituents 
may be weighed up in order to have as much dough 
as will make a given number of rolls. It is, of course, 
quite immaterial what standard is fixed, or how and 
why it is fixed on it, but the easiest way is the best, 
say we, and therefore our practice is to take i qrt. 
of liquor as the standard for small rolls, and i gall, 
of liquor for rolls of a larger size and different mixing. 
These standards w r e find suit very well where small 
lots only are made. When the trade is large, we 
generally go by the gallon for small rolls and by the 
ovenful for the larger size rolls. For convenience 
sake at present we have adopted a one-gallon stan- 
dard for all kinds, knowing full well that any reader 
of these pages will have no difficulty in halving or 
quartering the mixing for small rolls, and multiplying, 
if necessary, for large rolls. This standardising will 



32 VIENNA BREAD. 

show in a graphic way the prime differences between 
the different recipes given. In these recipes we 
have purposely left out fat, to which we will refer 
later, in order to save undue multiplication of recipes. 
The first formula will be 

SPONGE AND DOUGH, 5 HOURS (No. i). 

2 qrts. water, 105 F. \ 

5 Ibs. flour, 68 F. [ Sponge, i hours. 

2 ozs. yeast. J 

Soften down the yeast thoroughly in the water, 
then add the flour and give the whole a thorough 
mixing and toughening. Make it smooth and tough, 
then dust over with flour, and leave aside in a warm 
place to come up and drop. The sponge will have 
reached that stage in i hours, but let it be under- 
stood the sponge is to be allowed to come up and 
commence settling down again before it is taken. 
In bakehouse parlance, take it on the turn, and make 
into dough with the following : 

2 qrts. water, 80 F. \ 

1 2 Ibs. flour. L Dough, 3^ hours. 

3 1 ozs. salt. j 

Make into a nice smooth dough, and do not be 
afraid to stretch it and fold it well. At the end of 
i hours knock it up by stretching and folding, as 
distinct from punching do not punch it. In another 
hour repeat the folding, and in still one more hour 
scale off. This is a total of five hours to scaling 
time, but it will take at least one more hour to clear 
it thoroughly after scaling and handing up. We are 
great believers in giving the dough a rest after scaling 
and handing before finally shaping. As a matter of 
fact, the night before these lines were written this 
formula was being worked off into small rolls 
when the house was very cold. Well, this dough 
lay on the board two hours before being finally 
shaped, and afterwards took one hour to prove 
before baking, or a total to oven of eight hours, and 



VIENNA BREAD. 33 

we do not mind saying that we do not wish for any- 
thing superior to the finished goods, although the 
time was abnormal. Nevertheless, we do not advise 
long systems. Slow -working dough, however, has 
this great benefit : when working off large quan- 
tities the whole lot proves well together ; with 
quick-working doughs the first of the rolls are often 
ready for the oven before the last is finally shaped. 
One important thing, however, should be remem- 
bered : if for any reason a long system is desired, 
always use a sponge process. When using a long 
system we have never had as good results from 
straight dough as from the sponge process. 

SPONGE AND DOUGH, 4 HOURS (No. 2). 

2 qrts. water, 100 F. ^| 

5 IDS. flour, 68 F. [Sponge, i hour. 

3 ozs. yeast. 

Make up as before, giving a thorough toughening, 
then dust with flour and lay aside in a warm place. 
By the way, probably you are thinking, why dust 
the sponge with flour ? This is a proceeding which 
seems peculiar to Vienna bread bakers, and we do not 
believe we could convince a sceptical English baker 
that it is necessary. Some Vienna bakers assert 
that the flour in the sponge loses its flavour by 
evaporation, and the flour spread over the sponge 
absorbs it : we think this explanation of the practice 
erroneous. But the dusting keeps in the heat, and 
possibly much gas, and it certainly also keeps a. 
cold draught from affecting the top of the sponge : 
add to this the fact that the Vienna man has studied 
the appearance of dusted sponges and, therefore, is 
more skilful in telling when they are exactly right, 
and probably we are right in concluding that these 
reasons are the real ones which go to perpetuate 
a custom. Still, you know that there are more 
things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in 
our philosophy, and the baker may be forgiven if in 

c 



34 VIENNA BREAD. 

the present state of our knowledge he refuses to 
take chances. Make into dough with the following : 

2 qrts. water, 104 F. ") 

12 Ibs. flour. I Dough, 3 hours. 

3 ozs. salt. j 

Make a smooth dough by stretching and folding, 
no tearing and punching, then lay aside for i hours. 
At the end of that time fold up again and lay aside 
for another hour ; repeat the operation, and in a 
further half-hour scale and hand up. This dough will 
be at its best when it has lain on the board fifty 
minutes. Shape, then prove for about 45 minutes, 
and bake. Total time, four hours to scales. In the 
oven in about 5! hours. 

Here, again, is another process extending over 
three hours only. It is our intention to give processes 
to suit everyone. 

SPONGE AND DOUGH, 3 HOURS (No. 3). 

2 qrts. water, 104 F. ] 

5 Ibs. flour, 68 F. /-Sponge, 45 minutes. 

4 ozs. yeast. 

Proceed as before directed, remembering that the 
yeast may be. with perfect safety, dissolved in water 
at 104 F. In fact, we take it, as a rule, that yeast 
will take no harm in water in which we can hold 
our hands. This latter temperature borders on 
120 F., which many bakers think is dangerous 
to the life of yeast. We are not prepared to deny 
this, although we practise it continually. Yeast, 
however, must not lie long in water at so high a 
temperature. 

2 qrts. water, 100 F. ~| 

12 Ibs. flour. vDough, 2j hours. 

3^ ozs. salt. 

Make up as before, then lay aside and turn in one 
hour. Again turn in 45 minutes, and half-an-hour 
later scale ; give 45 minutes on the board, then shape, 



VIENNA BREAD. 35 

prove about 45 to 50 minutes, and finally bake. 
The following is a still shorter process : 

SPONGE AND DOUGH, 2} HOURS (No. 4). 

2 qrts. water, 100 F. ] 

I^S. 6 ^ Sponge. 30 m ,nu, e , 

1 oz. sugar. J 

Proceed to make sponge as before. This is a very 
quick sponge system, as sponge is ready in half-an- 
hour. Next take the following : 

2 qrts. water, 105 F. "I 

12 Ibs. flour. /Dough, ij hours. 

3^ ozs. salt. 

Make up as before directed, and lay aside in a 
comfortable place for one hour. At the end of that 
time fold and stretch as already explained, and lay 
aside for a further 45 minutes ; then scale, hand up, 
and allow to lie for at least 45 minutes ; shape, and 
prove for another 40 to 45 minutes; then bake. 




36 VIENNA BREAD. 



Chapter VI. 



STRAIGHT DOUGHS, FERMENTS, ETC. 

WE would here draw the reader's special atten- 
tion to the fact that although sponging 
in England is getting out of date, real 
Vienna bread i.e., bread made in Vienna is made 
on the sponge system. We do not claim super- 
excellence for the system ; as a matter of fact, 
wa have almost abandoned it, except for French 
bread, of which, by the way, not a great quantity 
is sold. Straight doughs are so much handier, 
particularly for small lots, that we have no 
hesitation in recommending them to the reader. 
We work mostly with straight doughs and find they 
suit very well. Of course, the drawback of the sponge 
process, as generally understood, hardly applies here 
because the sponges given are not sponges as most 
bakers understand them. They are, rather, Vienna 
sponges, and can hardly be said to militate against 
flavour unless carelessly handled. Before going on 
with some straight processes, we would like to 
impress on the reader the fact that the three 
processes given are what may be termed foundation 
doughs. These systems may be applied to the making 
of ordinary large Vienna rolls, French bread, horse- 
shoes, etc., with some slight modifications to be 
added immediately after we have given some more 
processes. 

STRAIGHT DOUGH, 5 HOURS (No. 5). 

i gall, water, 105 F. 2 ozs. yeast. 

17 Ibs. flour, 72 F. sf ozs. salt. 



VIENNA BREAD. 37 

Make a bay with the flour ; dissolve the yeast 
thoroughly in about i pt. of the water, and dissolve 
the salt in the remainder ; then mix all together, pour 
into the bay, and proceed to make into good smooth 
tough dough. Do not be all day about it, either; 
but get it made, covered up, and placed away in a 
comfortable corner, there to lie for two hours, when 
it should be brought forth and doubled up, stretched, 
and doubled again. After resting for ii hours, it should 
get the same again, and in a further i| hours 
it should be doubled up, scaled, and handed. In 
working off this dough we have got best results by 
allowing a further hour (almost) on the board 
before shaping, and comparatively slow -working 
stuff like this will take about an hour 1o prove, 
and should not be hurried. The following is a 
shorter system : 

STRAIGHT DOUGH, 3^ HOURS (No. 6). 

i gall, water, 100 F. $% ozs. yeast. 

17 Ibs. flour, 64" F. 3f ozs. salt. 

Make up as already directed for straight dough, 
and lay aside for i hours. At the end of that time, 
double up and fold as has been repeatedly directed, 
and let lie for another hour. Double up again and 
lay aside for a further hour, then fold up and scale. 
In from 30 to 40 minutes shape and put to prove. 
The rolls will be ready for the oven in about 
45 minutes. 

STRAIGHT DOUGH, 2\ HOURS (No. 7). 

i gall, water, 104 F. 8 ozs. yeast. 

17 Ibs. flour, 62 F. 3 ozs. salt. 

2 ozs. sugar (or yeast food). 

Take i pt. of the liquor, dissolve the sugar in it, 
crumble down the yeast into it and give a stir round. 
Set this aside while you prepare the flour, and weigh 
the salt ; then make up the liquor to a gallon, stir 



38 VIENNA BREAD. 

in the salt, and get the whole lot of ingredients into 
dough in the shortest possible time. Afterwards 
lay aside for one hour, fold up, and lay aside again 
for 45 minutes ; fold up again at this stage and 
in a further 45 minutes scale, and make up in 
from 40 to 50 minutes. This is a most excel- 
lent short system, and is easily split up into 
quarts, I qrt. being one-fourth of the above 
dough, which will yield (without additions of any 
kind) at least 6| Ibs. dough. The following is a 
still shorter system, but on a regular commercial 
basis : 

STRAIGHT DOUGH, 2 HOURS (Xo. 8). 

i gall, water, 106 F. 10 ozs. yeast. 

17 Ibs. flour, 64 F. 3 \ ozs. salt. 

3 ozs. sugar (or yeast food). 

Dissolve the yeast and half the sugar in about a 
pint of the water (106 F. will not harm yeast), and 
allow this to lie while the other ingredients are being 
prepared ; afterwards get all together into a smooth 
elastic dough as fast as possible, and lay aside in a 
comfortable corner for 40 minutes, double up then, 
and leave for half-an-hour more, then repeat the fold- 
ing and leave for another half-an-hour. At the end 
of that time, fold over again and scale in a further 
20 minutes. In . half-an-hour proceed to make up 
and prove. These rolls should be ready for the oven 
in 30 minutes. This process (to the oven) is much 
faster than No. 7, but it sometimes happens that a 
small lot of rolls is wanted in a hurry, or again it 
is sometimes found that enough dough has not been 
made to fill all the orders ; a very fast dough in 
such a case comes in very handy. It must not be 
considered a regular commercial process, but is all 
right for commercial work under the circumstances 
described : the resultant rolls have the peculiar and 



VIENNA BREAD. 39 

delightful sweetness which only goes with short 
process goods. Take the following : 

EMERGENCY STRAIGHT DOUGH, i HOUR (No. 9). 

i gall, water, 116 F. 14 ozs. yeast. 

17 Ibs. flour (barley), 62 F. 3^ ozs. salt. 
3 ozs. yeast food. 

Give the yeast a start with some sugar, or good 
reliable yeast food, as explained in No. 7 ; then make 
up into smooth elastic dough, keep in a warm place, 
and fold up in half-an-hour. The dough by this 
time should be not less than 88 F. (a very high 
temperature, only warranted by the case). In 
15 minutes fold up again and scale in a further 
15 minutes, or in exactly one hour from dough being 
made. As soon as dough shows signs of proving, make 
up into rolls and set to prove. A short time only is 
necessary for this part of the process as the rolls 
jump weh 1 in the oven. Now, we say again that this 
system is meant for particular cases only. In these 
cases it will be found invaluable, and under hurrying 
conditions will always give best results. It is a very 
fast dough, and so unless the baker is actually waiting 
on it, it is very liable to go too far unnoticed. 

We have already given two completely different 
series of formulae, but there is still another which 
has a vogue in some places this is ferment and 
dough. Now, many readers will call our sponge 
system a ferment system, and we cannot say that 
it is not. When we add flour to water, say 4 ozs. 
to 8 ozs. per quart (with yeast), we say that is a 
ferment. But when we add, say, 4 Ibs. per quart, 
we say we are making sponge. Exactly where, a 
ferment leaves off and a sponge begins is a matter 
of opinion, and the writers have never worried about 
it, although they are inclined to say there is a pro- 
portion where neither of the words properly conveys 
the correct impression to the technical mind. Where 



40 VIENNA BREAD. 

the proportion of flour runs almost equal in weight 
with the liquor, the mixture ought to go under the 
name of " Batter sponge." The reader will note 
that the sponges in this system belong to that ilk. 
Of ferment proper, the following is a good example : 

FERMENT AND DOUGH, 3^ HOURS (No. 10). 
3 qrts. water, 98^ 

Ferment, about 15 mins. 



i oz. sugar. 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in i qrt. of the liquid, 
then add the flour, stir well, and when smooth add 
the rest of the water, stir vigorously, then cover up, 
and allow to come up and drop. This will take about 
15 to 20 minutes. Now take the following : 

i qrt. water, 105 F. 15^ Ibs. flour. 

3f ozs. salt. 

Make a bay with the flour, into which pour the 
ferment ; then dissolve the salt in the quart of water, 
and with the latter rinse out the ferment bucket. 
Make all up into smooth clear dough, and lay aside 
for one hour. Turn then and lay aside for another 
hour, fold up again, and it will be ready for scaling 
in from 30 to 40 minutes afterwards. In another 30 to 
40 minutes make up and prove for about 45 minutes. 
This makes a very good roll but, providing the yeast 
gets a start as before spoken of, there is nothing to be 
gained by working thus except a small saving in yeast. 
As a matter of fact, if the reader refers back to Straight 
Dough No. 6, he will find this process and No. 6 do 
not appreciably differ, except in this matter. Dough 
from ferment, however, is perhaps a trifle livelier 
than straight when the yeast for the latter has 
simply been added and mixed. No amount of yeast 
seems to compensate foi the want of even five 
minutes in a sugary solution before making into 
dough. Bearing in mind the close relationship 



VIENNA BREAD. 41 

between ferment and dough, and straight dough, we 
feel we can occupy our space with more valuable 
things than mere recipe making. We employ a regular 
ferment only when yeast is working slowly, and 
then we give it the full straight dough allowance. 
And now we will deal with true mixings. 

Until now we have given only foundation doughs. 
We give now one or two little items which may be 
added to any one of the previous mixings in order 
to secure a particular result. There are, or at least 
use, four different kinds of dough : French Roll dough, 
Kaiser or Empress dough, Horseshoe or Crescent 
dough, and Vienna dough. The first we will call 

A, or French Roll Dough. 

This is what we call an all-water dough ; in this 
dough also there is no fat, simply the mixing as it is 
given. This is the real dough for French long rolls. 
It should be made very soft (about 15^ Ibs. flour 
only per gallon) and should be folded and stretched to 
make it tough this is how the bright shining texture 
and glazy holes are got ; well fermented dough pulled 
about, folded, stretched, and stretched again. But 
this bread has not a great vogue in England, so we 
pass on with, we hope, not undue haste, to 

B, or Kaiser Dough. 

This dough is made from a mixture of half milk 
and half water when fresh milk is used, or about 
14 ozs. condensed milk to I gallon of water, when 
such is used. Example : 

STRAIGHT DOUGH (No. 6). 

gall, water. \ ( i gall, water. 

gall. milk. / \I4 ozs. condensed milk. 

17 Ibs. flour. si ozs. yeast. 

3f ozs. salt. 

The small tin of condensed milk weighs fully I Ib. 
gross, and for Kaiser dough we find two tins exactly 



42 VIENNA BREAD. 

right for 2| gallons of liquor. Then, not to dwell 
too long on this subject, we have 

C, or Horseshoe Dough. 

This is our favourite, and is made by adding fat in 
some quantity to any of the standard doughs when 
making up, together with a similar proportion of milk 
to that used for Kaiser dough. We discussed under 
" Fat " the pros and cons of the subject so that it 
only lies with us now to give the quantities. Our 
favourite mix is i Ib. of good cake margarine and 
i Ib. of pure sweet lard, with 3 ozs. of white sugar, 
and at least i Ib. of flour per gallon of liquor half 
milk (or condensed milk in proportions already 
alluded to). This is a little complicated ; let us make 
it clearer by adding it on to the first standard recipe 
given (No. i). 

HORSESHOE DOUGH. 
Sponge. Dough. 

I qrt. water. i qrt. water. 

1 qrt. milk. I qrt. milk. 

5 Ibs. flour. 1 3 Ibs. flour (fully). 

2 ozs. yeast. 3^ ozs. salt. 

i Ib. margarine, 
i Ib. lard. 
3 ozs. sugar. 

The whole thing is thus made clear in this way. 
We select a sponge process to show that fat, extra 
flour, etc., should be added at dough stage. The 
milk is shown as divided between sponge and dough, 
but this is not necessary. All the milk may be added 
at dough stage, but it is often more convenient to 
add the milk at both stages because the water may 
be drawn from the tap at a temperature to heat the 
generally cold milk. With straight doughs all is 
made up together, of course. 

D, or Vienna Dough. 

To each gallon of water is added 3 ozs. white 
sugar, 6 ozs. of lard, and the proportion of salt is 



VIENNA BREAD. 43 

generally placed at 4 ozs. No milk is used in this 
dough, although there is no reason why a small 
quantity should not be added if the reader feels so 
inclined. Example : 

STRAIGHT DOUGH (Xo. 6). 

i gall, water. 4 ozs. salt. 

17 Ibs. flour. 6 ozs. lard. 

5j ozs. yeast. 3 ozs. sugar. 

There is more crumb in this roll, and there 
is no salt in the fat. Both these things point to a 
larger amount of salt, but after all, the amount 
of salt must always be fixed according to the tastes 
of customers ; 4 ozs. is a good sensible quantity, but 
the amount should depend on customers' tastes. A 
greater or less quantity will tend to retard or 
hasten fermentation respectively, but in these doughs 
it will be in a minor degree only. 




44 VIENNA BREAD. 



Chapter VII. 



MATURITY OF DOUGH. 

IN the preceding pages we have made it pretty 
clear that a given quantity of yeast in a given 
quantity of dough at a definite temperature will 
always ferment at a given rate i.e., it will make 
the dough ready in a definite time. If the quantities 
and heats we have given are carefully attended to 
there will be no doubt about the result, but we 
hasten to add that the times and heats must be 
taken by the sound practical man as not infallible, 
because some flours require more fermenting than 
others, while yeasts vary in strength. A few prac- 
tical hints, then about how the several doughs 
ought to feel when ready will not be out of place. 

First, it might be well to revert again to the 
mixing of dough, because a healthy fermentation can 
only be obtained in properly mixed dough. 

We have found that Vienna dough can be best 
made by machinery ; that is, the amount of labour 
required in making up a fair sized dough is best 
furnished mechanically. Excellent dough can be, 
and is, made by hand, but under modern commercial 
conditions, machine-made dough is best. It is not, 
of course, necessary to call in the aid of machinery 
to the making of small lots, but in whatever way 
dough is made, it must be made thoroughly. Dough 
when properly made should feel smooth and tough,, 
and the baker ought to be able to take a small piece 
and stretch it out with his fingers into a thin square 
skin through which it will be almost possible to see. 



VIENNA BREAD. 45 

When this dough lies a little while it commences 
to rise, but a great deal cannot be learnt from the 
height to which it rises, for the good and sufficient 
reason that it must not be allowed to rise much ; in 
that direction lies coarseness of texture and crumb- 
liness. First of all, then, to describe the " feel " 
of a straight dough. Let us take No. 6, as it is a 
medium long dough (3^ hours). This dough first of 
all will get soft, then it will rise ; at the end of i 
hours, when it is handled, it will feel a little lively, 
but the gas will be easily knocked out. When it is 
folded over, however, it will squeak, and as the 
dough is flattened down large gas bubbles will be 
formed only to be burst, of course. When the turn- 
ing is finished the dough should feel springy. Left 
to itself again, it will rise as before, and in an hour 
more, when turning commences, should feel drier 
(much less sticky). The gas will not now be so easily 
knocked out and the bubbles formed will be quite as 
numerous, but much smaller than at the first turning. 
Dough will be more elastic, and on that account 
harder to flatten out ; it will also have become a little 
shorter a fact, however, only noticeable when fold- 
ing up ; the skin breaks easier. The " feel " of the 
dough goes in this direction until the final scaling. 
If flour used is at all soft or easily fermented, the 
dough will feel more mature at this stage and prepara- 
tions should be made to scale a little earlier. The 
first signs of full maturity not to say actually over 
maturation is a slight tightening of the dough 
unaccompanied by any extra liveliness, and as the 
dough ferments the tightness increases. This is a 
dangerous sign and everything should be done to get 
the rolls worked off expeditiously. 

The sense of smell is not a good guide in diagnosing 
a dough as to its state of maturity. If the reader 
doubts this statement let him smell his dough before 
and after turning, and he will find that smell depends 



46 VIENNA BREAD. 

simply on whether gas is allowed to remain in the 
dough ; that means if the dough is turned often it 
will have very little of the sharp smell at any 
time, and a strong smell if the dough is left 
much alone. Also, in short doughs the feel will be 
different and the smell possibly less apparent. At 
first turning of, for instance, No. 8, the dough 
will feel " readier " than No. 6 at first turning. In 
fact, it may be taken as a rough guide that very 
short hot doughs always feel more mature than they 
really are, and thus it is " green " (or under-fermented 
stuff) is very often met with when working quick 
processes. Care, of course, must be taken that the 
dough does not become exhausted, as from quick 
dough it is possible to get dough completely 
worked out, yet sweet enough, and the direct 
opposite applies to long doughs ; for instance, it 
is not uncommon to meet with sour bread made 
from long dough which shows every sign of having 
been made from a " lively " dough. In long doughs, 
therefore, watch sourness ; in short doughs, watch 
exhaustion. The feel of a long dough is also directly- 
opposed to that of the short dough, inasmuch as it 
is very often a good deal better matured than the 
feel of it would lead you to believe. This remark 
also applies to Horseshoe dough (dough with fat). 

As to dough made from sponge, it begins to strike 
out right away and in a comparatively short time 
shows quite evident signs of maturity. Much the 
same may be said of these doughs as has been said 
of " straights " but there always seems to be a good 
"bottom" in them, if that word is allowable. In 
working up such doughs, however, one must never 
forget the state of the sponge when made into dough. 
If sponge has been well ready, then the dough won't 
stand any nonsense ; but if sponge has been taken 
sharp, then a few minutes longer in dough will not 
hurt resultant bread. Watching the progress of a 



VIENNA BREAD. 47 

sponge is accomplished with more accuracy. The 
sponge rises right up, then flattens a little and a 
mark appears across the top, then bubbles begin to 
burst freely, and the whole mass sinks, leaving a 
kind of margin all round the tub which marks the 
" length of the fall." In a few minutes, however, it 
will commence to rise again and will again drop. It 
is important, then, to watch a sponge when nearly 
ready, as one might easily mistake the going down 
of the sponge for the second time as the first drop, 
and this may make all the difference between grand 
and indifferent bread. We think it unnecessary to 
say more now on this matter than to commend its 
careful re-perusal by all readers, assuring them 
that the above remarks are the results of long years 
of careful observation. 




48 VIENNA BREAD. 



Chapter VIII. 



MAKING UP LARGE ROLLS. 

NOW that we have our dough made and fer- 
mented, it is time to devote ourselves to the 
task of making it up into rolls. In this matter 
we might preface our remarks by saying that the 
novice will have to go slow at first ; it will take him 
quite a while to acquire expertness in the making up 
of Vienna dough, but this fact need not dishearten 
him if the results attained are at all passable. He 
will find, however, that the less the pieces are handled 
the better will be the appearance of the finished 
goods. 

Suppose we take the easiest form first, i.e., the 
large Vienna roll. It should be scaled and allowed 
to lie according to the directions previously given 
with each recipe. When ready for making up, lift 
the piece in one hand and give it a smart slap on the 
table : this will make it slightly oval. Lay the piece 
.down on the table now the longest way from left 
to right, just as if you had stretched the piece in 
front of you with both hands. Then fold the part 
of the dough next you fully half-way over from you, 
run the heels of your hands along it to make sure it 
will stick, then fold the side furthest from you over 
towards you, again running the heels of the hands 
along ; this time not only to stick the pieces together, 
but to make a slight hollow, just enough to enable you 
to double the roll over. Having done this, fold the 
further half back on the half next you, and use the 
heels of your hands again to " close," as a Scotch 



VIENNA BREAD. 49 

baker finishes a batch loaf or as most bakers finish 
a tin loaf. Now flatten your hands and move them 
backward and forward towards the ends of the roll, 
the idea being to make a roll full in the centre and 
pointed at the ends. Now, the correct way to prove 
these rolls is to take a board and a bag (either cotton or 
jute opened at the seam will do), the bag to be a good 
deal bigger than the board. Spread the bag out, 
then put on one roll, closing up, draw up the rest 
of the bag slightly so that it makes a fold, then put 
another roll against this, next another fold, and so 
on until the board is full of rolls with a fold of the 
bag between each one. In this way the rolls are 
kept in beautiful shape and do not flatten out in any 
way ; nevertheless, the writers make a good many rolls 
every day and they have gradually taught themselves 
to do without all this trouble. They simply put the 
rolls on to boards dusted slightly with rice flour, 
closing down, and they get the rolls all right. When 
running the rolls into the oven, in the former case 
it is desirable to wash them with clean water only. 
In our case we may prove them in a moist press and 
they may be run in without washing : in the pre- 
vious case, as they are proved closing up, they 
must be turned before being washed and cut ; in the 
latter case, they are simply cut and run into the 
oven. These rolls go under the name of Tafel Brodt 
(table bread) in Germany, and of the larger varieties 
of Vienna bread are certainly the most popular in 
this country. These are the rolls with the familiar 
diagonal cuts, of which more anon. They are made 
from D dough, and are weighed at from 14 ozs. 
to 16 ozs. for 2d. There is a smaller roll often made 
from this dough, to sell at one penny, which in some 
localities is a great favourite. It is scaled at from 
6 ozs. to 8 ozs. and worked off in the same way as 
the twopenny article ; in some cases, though, the cut 
is made down the centre. 



VIENNA BREAD. 




VIENNA BREAD. 51 

Another popular roll is known as the Long Roll, 
Lemon Roll, or Banbury. This roll is sold at three- 
pence and weighed accordingly. It is moulded in the 
same way as the twopenny roll, and of the same 
length. As it is much bigger (say, i Ib. 10 ozs.) it 
is much fuller in the centre. It is always proved 
closing down on dusted boards and gets one cut 
only, and that lengthwise. It is customary to bake 




BANBURY. 

these rolls in steam, but the steam should be regu- 
lated so that they are not glazed. This is easy 
of accomplishment and will be explained under 
"Baking." 

The Coburg also might be included here ; although 
it can hardly be called Vienna bread, there is no good 
reason why it should not be made from Vienna dough. 
In fact, we so make it daily and it goes very well. 
Take D dough and scale off at about 22 ozs. Hand 
up and allow to lie about twenty minutes ; then 



52 VIENNA BREAD. 

mould up firmly in round shape, and prove for thirty 
minutes ; wash over with clean water, cut across 
twice (hot cross bun style) with a sharp knife, and 
transfer at once to the oven, a very little steam only 
being necessary, else the cuts will not burst. It 
makes an improved sole if the Coburgs are proved 
upside down ; in fact, it is an improvement all round 
sole, burst on top, texture, and general boldness 
but it means more trouble and it resolves itself into 
a case of whether the improvement is worth the 
trouble. 

The Coburg made of smaller size and of slightly 
better dough is also a great favourite, as it provides 
plenty of crust. Take B dough and proceed as 
above, bearing in mind again that only a little steam 
should be used if this roll is baked in the Vienna 
oven, or the cuts will not burst, and mind, it is the 
.burst or crack which gives it the appearance of 
having a crisp sweet crust. 

Rolls of the Banbury description are in some places 
made to burst without cutting. This is accomplished 
by laying from end to end a thin strip of un- 
proved (but of somewhat richer) dough. These rolls 
are known as Barges, and they look all right. Again, 
the same roll is made with a fine twist laid down 
the centre before it is set to prove ; the roll then 
bursts a little at each side of the twist. 

Batons, however, are distinct from the above. The 
dough should be better, say 12 ozs. of lard and 6 ozs. of 
sugar per gallon of liquor, which may have a little 
milk in it. They may be weighed at 12 ozs. to 14 ozs. 
for twopence, and for one penny in proportion. They 
are moulded up in the same way as the twopenny 
Vienna, but are proved, closing up, on boards well 
dusted with rice flour. When proved enough, they 
are turned over on to the peel, given three diagonal 
cuts, and are baked in a hot oven with very little 
steam in. The cuts, owing to there being little steam 



VIENNA BREAD. 



53 




54 VIENNA BREAD. 

present, crack and open, which gives the white roll 
quite an unique appearance. 

Closely allied in the mode of manufacture to some 
of the foregoing is the French Roll. These rolls, 
for reasons which it is unnecessary to discuss 
here, are not widely sold. In some localities, 
however, they are in great request by hotel-keepers, 
restaurateurs, and caterers generally, for use instead 
of dinner rolls. In one locality we remember it was 
the only Vienna bread made (if we may express the 
fact that way) ; in that case it was called Stick Bread. 
It was weighed at i|- Ibs., sold at fourpence whole- 
sale, and was about 2 ft. long. The handiest size of 
French Roll, however, is undoubtedly the twopenny 
size made from the dough classified under " A," and 
weighed at from 10 ozs. to 12 ozs. The mode of 
making is much like that followed for the previous 
rolls. The piece is lengthened out with a slap on the 
table which helps to knock out the inclination to 
shrink, then it is folded from the worker, again to 
the worker, flattened down as before, doubled over, 
and finally firmly closed. It is then rolled out to a 
length of 10 ins., but in this case care is taken to 
make the roll the same thickness from one end to 
the other. These rolls are in some cases proved in 
long baskets made for the purpose, one roll in each 
basket ; but the British baker wants as little nonsense 
as possible with his work, and so we have no hesita- 
tion in saying he will get good results by following 
our plan, which is to prove the rolls in folds of cloth, 
as before explained. As they are long and thin, 
particularly the larger sizes, they may be found 
troublesome to get on to the peel without knocking 
out the proof. In this case they may be turned on 
to a thin piece of wood, then slipped on to the peel, 
although our practice is to get the peel close, then 
pick them up smartly and lay gently on the peel. 
It is not necessary to wash them, simply give three 
cuts with a knife, if short rolls, and four or five if 



VIENNA BREAD. 55 

longer, and slip them into the steam oven. As we 
have already said, these rolls are much used for 
dinner bread ; they come cheap, of course, for hotel- 
keepers. They are sliced jam roll fashion, and as many 
as eighteen portions can be taken out of the four- 
penny roll above spoken of, and seven or eight from 
the twopenny roll. So that they may give symme- 
trical slices, it is necessary that they should have a 
round sole, and to obtain this a sound oven is neces- 
sary first of all, but the rolls should also be left 
out to take a skin on the bottom before being turned 
over on to the peel. Just one final word about this 
roll. Although we have given straight dough formulae 
for French Rolls, as for the others, our practical 
experience has been that sponge and dough, as given, 
undoubtedly gives the best results. This applies to 
French Rolls only in fact, we are inclined to favour 
straight doughs for everything else in the Vienna 
line, on the point of flavour particularly. Note. 
These rolls may be put in a warm press but must not 
be proved in steam. Also the photographs here 
reproduced were taken from finished rolls that is, 
baked rolls ready for the table. 

The Baton or Spike is a roll of the large class also, 
but quite different from Batons already given. Take 
a piece of Kaiser dough (B dough) and scale off at 
14 ozs. for a twopenny roll. Hand up round and allow 
to prove for fifteen minutes or so. Then proceed as 
just described for the making of French rolls, the 
idea being to get a roll of the same thickness through- 
out. When the Batons are made up they should 
be placed in pans, such as are used for French rasped 
rolls, but of larger size, and set to prove, after- 
wards baked in steam, and washed on top with clean 
water, or a very thin solution of scalded cornflour, 
as they are drawn from the oven. The pans for 
these rolls are generally joined up in fours for handi- 
ness, and in this way resemble a piece of corrugated 
zinc, 12 ins. long, with ends fixed on. 



VIENNA BREAD. 



Chapter IX. 



MAKING UP SMALL ROLLS. 

THE next roll we will describe is the well-known 
Kaiser or Empress. The making up of this 
roll, which is made from B or Kaiser dough, 
can be better practically demonstrated than explained 
by words. However, the process is briefly this : get 




FIG. i. KAISER. 



the piece nice and round to begin with, then when 
proved a little, flatten down, fold in one edge 
almost half-way across, as shown in Fig. i, and 
lay your left thumb on the fold. Now fold 
the edge furthest from you over your thumb and 



VIENNA BREAD. 



57 



bring the edge of the right hand firmly down on 
it at that part just past the end of your left thumb ; 




FIG. 2. KAISER (FIRST FOLD). 

fold up the edge again, this time a little further along, 
but don't move your left thumb, bring down the edge 
of your right hand again firmly, just missing the 




FIG. 3. KAISER (SECOND FOLD). 

point of the thumb as before. (The folding up 
should be done with the first two fingers of the left 



58 VIENNA BREAD. 

hand, but it must be done somehow.) Repeat this 
four times to make a five-point Kaiser (five points 
are ample); when you finish the fourth time there 




FIG. 4. KAISER (THIRD FOLD). 

will be a long tail left. Now draw your left thumb 
and push this tail into the cavity left, press it firmly 
down; then to finish give the edges of the points 




FIG. 5. KAISER (FOURTH FOLD). 

(the first and fifth) a final squeeze together at the 
base or bottom, turn the roll upside down, and set 
to prove. There must be no steam used in fact, it 



VIENNA BREAD. 59 

may be taken, as a general rule, that steam may be 
used when rolls are proving, as they are to be baked, 
i.e., with closings down ; but steam must not be used 
on rolls proving upside down. 




FIG. 6. KAISER (FINISHED). 

The Kaiser needs most steam of all Vienna varieties, 
and should not be attempted in any oven other than 
the Vienna type. This roU should be baked on the 
oven bottom. 

Many varieties of small rolls may be made from 
Kaiser dough. A nice little thing called Split Brod- 
chen is very simply done. Mould up the piece of dough 
round and lay aside for a few minutes, then with a 
very thin rolling-pin press firmly across the centre 
almost down to the board. This will almost divide 
the roll in two. Place the edges close together again, 
and prove bottom upwards, then turn over before 
putting into the oven. When it springs in the oven 
the mark opens. This roll should also be baked on 
the oven bottom if at all practicable. 

Another popular line, which goes by the name of 
the Semmel, is easily made. Mould up round as 
before and prove bottom upwards. Just before 
putting into the oven, turn up the right side and 



60 VIENNA BREAD. 

give one cut with a sharp knife, then run them in 
on the oven bottom. This roll bursts out at the cut. 
The small Banbury is another very effective shape 
made from the same dough. Mould up round, 
then roll slightly oval with one hand, after- 
wards with both hands roll to a point at each 
end. Prove v/ith closing up as before until ready, 




FIG. 7. HORSESHOE. 

then turn over, give one cut from end to end, and 
slip them in on the oven bottom. The cut bursts 
out well and makes a fine showy roll. 

Salt Rings and Salt Sticks also may be made 
from Kaiser dough. These are greatly appreciated 
by many people, as they help to sharpen a jaded 
appetite. For rings the pieces are scaled about 
ij ozs., simply rolled out long but even, and the 



VIENNA BREAD. 61 

two ends pressed firmly together, after which they 
are washed with water and. dipped lightly in coarse 
dry salt. The salt should be thoroughly dried on 
the oven-stock, and a rolling-pin afterwards run 
across it to ensure the absence of lumps. The sticks 
are made in the same way, but are left straight, and 
care is taken to make them all of a size. 

Also an exceedingly nice thing, called French Roll, 
or Rasped Roll, may be made from B dough. 




FIG. 8. HORSESHOE. 

These rolls are weighed to suit the trade, i ozs. 
to 2 ozs. being about right for a halfpenny. Rolled 
up under hand and made slightly oval, they are then 
transferred to a pan with rounded bottom, about 
six in a line. The pan is shaped like the iron gutter 
under the eaves of your house and may be easily 
made out of a piece of tin. These tins are sometimes 
in pairs or fours, and thus resemble, roughly, a piece of 
corrugated zinc. The rolls, when proved, are baked 



62 



VIENNA BREAD. 



in a sound oven, and afterwards, when still hot, have 
the outside skin peeled off with a rasp. They are 
unique in their way, crisp, and delicious. 

Our favourite dough, however, is that from which 
Horseshoes are made. From this dough endless 




FIG. 9. HORSESHOE. 

varieties of rolls may be made which will delight the 
customer who is sick of tea bread and pastry. There 
is only one thing which must be remembered when 
working up rolls from this dough : they must be 
thoroughly baked in a sound oven. If this be kept 




FIG. 10. HORSESHOE. 

in mind the rolls will eat like crisp butter biscuits, 
yet with a flavour peculiar to good flour properly fer- 
mented. We will here ask the reader to remember 
what we said about butter, and would specially 
caution him against increasing the proportion of 



VIENNA BREAD. 63 

margarine above that given. The writers have tried 
all these little things before, and have here set forth 
the result of their experience. 




FIG. ii. PERFECT HORSESHOE. 

To make the Horseshoe, have the pieces handed 
up round, then when ready take a rolling-pin and pin 




FIG. 12. HORSESHOE (How not to do it). 

each piece out oval. Pin out a good number, using 
a little dust during the operation. Now catch one 



64 VIENNA BREAD. 

of the ends with the left hand and hold it while with 
the right you proceed to roll up the piece tightly ; 
this is done by rolling with the flat of the right hand 
and with the heel of the thumb, as it were, pushing 
the roll back, By continuing this the piece still 




FIG, 13. CANNON ROLL. 

unrolled is kept stretched and thin and the roll itself 
gets longer. Finally, roll all up and fine down the 
ends to symmetrical proportions the roll should be 
full in the centre and should taper towards the ends 
afterwards bringing the points round with a sweep. 
Remember, also, now that the last fold across the 
centre of the roll should be towards the inside of the 




Fie. 14. CANNON ROLL. 

shoe and should be far enough over to be gripped 
between the body of the roll itself and the tin on 
which the rolls are to be proved. These rolls should 
be proved on tins in a moist press and finally baked 
off in a sound oven in steam. 



VIENNA BREAD. 65 

The Crescent Roll is different from the Horseshoe 
only in that it is made in the form of a crescent or 
half moon, as distinct from the almost circular form 
of the Horseshoe. 

The Cannon Roll is handed up with a slight waist 
and this becomes exaggerated by simply pulling at 
the ends in fact, the making of a Cannon Roll very 
much resembles the making of a Horseshoe, with the 
difference that both hands are rolling up. The 
broad ends of the roll are rolled up towards each 




FIG. 15. CANNON ROLL, 

other and the piece between kept stretched; and 
finally the two pieces are rolled up close together 
side by side, and turned upside down. This makes 
quite a dainty looking shape ; it is, like the Horse- 
shoe, proved and baked in steam on a tin. 

Here is another most delightful little thing for the 
tea- or lunch-table ; it is bread as distinct from buns : 
yet with tea or coffee, or even as an adjunct to the 
light lunch-table, it will be preferred to even rich buns 
by nine persons out of ten. We call it a French 

E 



66 VIENNA BREAD. 

Crescent, but it may be made in the, perhaps, more 
pleasing form of a horseshoe. For that matter, quite 
a variety of nice shapes may be made from the 
following dough, which will be appreciated because 
they will be found to eat well. Take the follow- 
ing : say, i Ib. of B dough (Kaiser dough) when 
ready for scaling off, shape it square and pin it 
out long and fairly thin ; then take Ib. of 
good sweet fat, say half margarine and half lard 
unless you want to do something particularly 




FIG. 1 6. CANNON ROLL (FINISHED). 

high-class, when you may use all butter or half 
butter and half margarine. Half margarine and 
half lard, however, is our favourite for good-class 
trade. Nip the fat into pieces and spread them 
over one half of the sheet of dough ; then fold the 
other half over, making very sure that the edges 
are knit well enough to keep the fat from coming 
out when you proceed to pin the sheet out, as you 
now must proceed to do. Pin this out as the con- 
fectioner pins puff paste and fold it in three that 



VIENNA BREAD. 67 

is, fold one-third part of the dough nearest you over 
on the centre third ; then bring the third part fur- 
thest from you over on top of all. This will give 
you a square piece of dough with three layers or 
leaves. Now turn this half-way round that is, 
turn it round so that the ends will be where the sides 
were ; let lie a few minutes to recover, until toughness 
goes slightly away ; then pin out again and fold in 
three as before ; let lie a little while again and repeat 
the operation. The dough will thus have got three 
turns, and will then be ready for working off. To 
do this proceed as follows pin out moderately thin, 
still keeping the piece square, and then cut in strips 
about 1 1 ins. to 2 ins. wide ; then cut across so as to 
separate the sheet into a number of squares ; or, 
after having cut the dough into strips, take each 
strip separately and snip off squares with the knife, 
seeing that each square weighs i oz. (this for a half- 
penny article ; double that, of course, for a penny). 
When all are cut, give a slight dust of flour and pro- 
ceed to handle them as already described for horse- 
shoes, i.e., pin out, keeping a point of what may be 
now called a diamond shape towards you, and, of 
course, one point from you. You will then start 
rolling up the piece, and you will find the side points 
make the ends of the shoe. This roll is best proved 
in a dry heat and baked in the same way, but it 
should be lightly glazed with a little thin egg-wash 
before reaching the oven ; the glaze should not be 
strong enough to make the roll glossy, but just 
enough to give it the bloomy crust inseparable from 
good Vienna bread. This makes a most delightful 
roll, as we have already said, and will be eaten when 
all other kinds of rolls are thrown aside. 

Small Vienna rolls, made from C or Horse- 
shoe dough, also form a dainty morsel. These 
are moulded oval, then fined down at the ends ; 
put on tins to prove, and just before being run into 



68 VIENNA BREAD. 

the oven get three oblique cuts with a sharp knife in 
the same way as the larger rolls. 

Rundstuck shape is also dainty. The Rundstuck 
rightly is a roll by itself, made with all milk for liquor 
(no water). There is no fat in its composition other 
than that contained in the milk. It is made from a 
very soft dough as all doughs should be made in 
which milk is present in large quantities and requires 
a great deal of hard work in the way of kneading and 
stretching. The rolls are finally made long-shaped 
with pointed ends, are proved, and when about to 
go into the oven, give each one cut with a sharp 
knife straight across. Although the demand for 




FIG. 17. TWIN OR DOUBLE ROLL. 

this particular roll as it ought to be, is probably 
limited in this country, the shape might well form a 
pleasing item amongst the several varieties from 
Horseshoe dough. 

The Twin or Double Roll is simply the halfpenny 
roll halved in two, moulded round and placed so close 
together on the tin that they adhere when baked. 

In some places the Coburg shape is popular ; for 
this shape the roll is moulded round, then flattened 
down and proved ; afterwards, as it goes to the oven, 
it gets two cuts, one at right angles to the other. 
But we draw the line at Coburgs it is a nice shape 



VIENNA BREAD. 69 

and easy to make, which is a great deal more than 
can be said for the crusty cottage shape which we have 
noticed some bakers working at. 

Until now we have ignored twists of all kinds. No 
Vienna baker worthy of the name wants to spend 
half the day making twists, neither does the public 
care for the weird and wonderful shapes one some- 
times sees. We could hardly pass the Penny Vienna 
Twist, however. This twist should be a simple three- 




FIG. 18. PENNY VIENNA TWIST. 

piece plait. The pieces are first scaled, then split 
in three, and each of these three pieces is rolled out 
to about 8 ins. in length with tapering ends. The 
pieces are now laid across each other until they 
resemble a six-pointed star. Afterwards three of the 
pieces are plaited in the well-known way (from the 
centre towards the end), and finally the three other 
ends are manipulated in the same fashion. Although 



70 VIENNA BREAD. 

the plaiting may be started at the end all right, the 
way described will be found to give a shapelier roll 
generally, and it occupies no more time. The roll, 
may be made from any of the given doughs, but are 
appreciated most when made from Horseshoe dough. 
They are, of course, baked on pans. 

A Lunch Roll of the same class as French Crescent, 
but not quite so rich, is made as follows Put down 
as a small sponge i qrt. water (100 F.), 2 ozs. yeast, 
2\ Ibs. flour. Let this come up and drop ; then 
make up with I qrt. water (90 F.), 4! Ibs. flour, 
1 1 ozs. salt, i Ib. fat, 8 ozs. brown sugar. The sponga 
should be ready in about one hour, and the dough 
in two hours more. Double up at least once while 
fermenting, afterwards scale off, say, 4 ozs. for id., 
hand up and lay aside for about twenty-five minutes ; 
then mould up long shape. When you have moulded 
up a few, take each separately, lay across the table 
that is, with ends pointing to and from you and pin 
out ; afterwards dip a clean brush in fat which has 
been made semi-liquid by heat, and brush over the 
piece of dough. Roll up as you would a horseshoe, 
but do not roll tight ; afterwards curl the short, thin 
ends in towards the body of the roll. This is in shape 
like a half-moon with a good full centre and the points 
bent sharply in towards, but without touching, the 
body. 

This Dinner Roll in some places is in very great 
demand, and is easily made up. Take the Vienna 
dough (D dough) and scale off in ounce pieces, let 
lie for twenty minutes, then mould up round and 
put the pieces on a flat pan, setting close together, 
either directly opposite each other to form square 
rolls, or honeycomb fashion, in which case they will 
have six sides and appear almost round. British 
bakers are fond of improving on things, so these 
rolls often may be seen with a small bash hole on 
top, which makes them appear like English crumby 



VIENNA BREAD. 71 

bread. There is not much trouble in making the 
rolls to look like crumby bread, but although we 
appreciate novelties and think no baker should 
be content to follow slavishly the shapes he has 
been taught, we draw the line at making English 
crusty loaves of a few ounces each that is, if we 
have not already drawn it at the weird and won- 
derful twists we sometimes see labelled Vienna 
bread ; all the same, we must not forget that 
English people like any amount of sweet crust. 

Weckel is another nice roll for the tea-table. Take 
the horseshoe dough (D) when ready for scaling, scale 
off in pieces about 3 ozs. in weight, split in two as 
you hand them up, and after allowing the pieces to 
recover, mould up into a small roll pointed at the 
ends, afterwards transfer to a tin, prove, and bake 
in steam without making any kind of mark on them. 
Something a little richer may be made by scaling at 
2 1 ozs., splitting and handing up as before, and after 
allowing to lie a little while, handing up again, round. 
The pieces should be pinned out a little, then some 
well softened, but not melted, butter (or a mixture 
of margarine and lard) brushed over and the pieces 
rolled up lightly, as you would a horseshoe. Do 
not make them too long. Place now on tins, prove 
dry, glaze with a weak egg-wash, and bake without 
steam. 

The Dinner Stick, however, is a most dainty 
little thing, and there is not a tremendous lot of 
work connected with it when you set about it in 
the right way. The piece of dough which makes one 
halfpenny roll should be split into four and after 
undergoing a slight moulding action should be rolled 
out under the hands held flat, until the pieces are, say, 
5 ins. long. These pieces are then placed on pans side 
by side in neat rows and allowed to lie some little time 
to allow for shrinking. The ends are then cut off with 
a scraper : afterwards they are set to prove, and are 



72 VIENNA BREAD. 

finally baked crisp. The idea of trimming them is to 
get them square at the ends and all of a size ; in 
some places, where a large business is done in these 
little things, a great deal of pains is taken in the way 
of marking pans and such like to ensure that the 
sticks are as near alike as the proverbial two peas ; 
These dainties, by the way, when served at table, are 
tied up in threes or fours with bright-coloured ribbon, 
and a small bundle laid to each guest. 

For Tea Sticks take any good rich dough, such as 
Horseshoe dough, and work off in much the same way 
as described for Dinner Sticks, but make them a little 
longer. The absolutely necessary features about 
these are flavour and crispness. Bake crisp in a quick 
oven, and do not mistake hardness for crispness. 
Varieties may be made by proceeding as for Weckel, 
using a smaller piece of dough and dusting a little 
granulated sugar on after brushing with the butter, 
as directed in the making of that other tea roll. 

The Soft Tea Stick is a nice adjunct to the tea- 
table. Good rich dough should again be used, and 
scaled off at about i| ozs. Afterwards, this should 
be split in two, rolled out a few inches, then the 
two pieces taken and twisted, rope fashion, the same 
thickness all through, placed on tins so that they 
will touch, then proved and baked in steam. 

It would be a simple matter giving a long list of 
shapes of rolls, but we think that no good purpose 
would be served by so doing. Our aim is to make 
this little book as useful as possible. We will stop 
then, at Aniseed and Poppy Seed Rolls, and such 
shapes as horseshoe twists, believing that we have 
given quite a reasonable variety of rolls which are 
completely different one from another, and all 
eminently suitable for the British trade. 



VIENNA BREAD. 73 



Chapter X. 



BAKING THE ROLLS. 

WHEX the rolls are finally ready for the oven 
there are a few details which require close 
attention. We have already referred to 
the Vienna oven and the reason for its peculiar 
shape ; we also have spoken of steam, and now we 
will explain how the best results may be got by these 
two in combination. It is superfluous to discuss 
the working of the oven further than to say that the 
fire should be kept in a healthy condition if the oven 
is a patent one, so that the temperature may be under 
proper control. We need hardly say that dirty fires 
are not fuel-savers, and wdth such fires it is almost 
impossible to keep up steady heats for any length of 
time ; neither is it possible to raise or lower open 
temperatures quickly under such conditions. 

Having got the oven up to baking temperature, 
and boiler pressure at a point to ensure a copious 
supply of steam, proceed to turn on the steam. First 
turn on the lower of the two cocks and blow out all 
the water that has collected in the pipes ; this cock 
is called the " drip " cock, and is fixed in a way 
that will ensure all water (condensed steam) running 
out of the pipes when it is opened. When steam only 
conies from this cock (and not till then), shut it, 
and turn on the oven cock (the cock which con- 
trols the flow of steam to the oven) ; let the steam 
blow in for half a minute or so, then slack it off ; 
in another half minute or so turn on the steam 



74 VIENNA BREAD. 

full, and let it blow in until the oven is full up, 
i.e., until the steam begins to issue from the oven 
mouth ; the oven is then ready for work. The 
reason why steam is blown in, then slacked off, 
is to sweep out the air before finally filling up with 
saturated steam. If this is not done, you may be led 
sometimes to think the oven is full of steam by the 
vapour issuing from the door, when, as a matter of 
fact, it is the displaced air bringing with it a quantity 
of the steam. The whole thing, of course, is to get the 
oven full of saturated steam ; we do not want the 
atmosphere of the oven saturated with steam, we 
want no atmosphere in the oven at all as atmosphere 
is understood, anyway. Of course, to those who 
are acquainted with the laws which govern gases 
we need not say the atmosphere creeps into the oven 
(let us put it that way), but we want to make sure first 
that the atmosphere is swept out of the oven, and, 
secondly, that it is kept out. When once we accom- 
plish the first, the second is easy : we simply keep the 
steam blowing gently moderately into the oven. 

As explained before, saturated steam is simply the 
fine molecules of steam wetted, and we have also 
hinted that when this water comes in contact with 
anything cooler than the particle of steam it is adher- 
ing to it immediately becomes disengaged and settles 
on the cooler body. It is in this way that the rolls 
are glazed. The hot water is deposited on the dough 
and in the presence of the oven heat actually boils the 
skin of the dough that is, it acts on the dough 
exactly as boiling water does : it gelatinises the 
starch, and this gelatinised starch, in the presence of 
much water runs smooth. The water, however, does 
not penetrate far, and so the action soon ceases, the 
skin becomes warm, and water ceases to be deposited 
because the skin is reaching the temperature of the 
steam particles. Water now is being withdrawn 
not only from the crust, but from inside the roll. 



VIENNA BREAD. 75 

The crust, however, now undergoes a change, the 
starch charging to sugar. The chemical aspect 
need not concern us here further than that it is worth 
remembering that when the crust reaches that rich 
golden which reminds you of corn-fields, the sugar is at 
its maximum. If we then have the sugar at its 
maximum we have the crust of the roll at its sweetest, 
and as crust bulks largely in Vienna rolls, we need not 
occupy space by pointing out the importance of 
having the rolls not only thoroughly baked, but of a 
light golden-brown colour. 

When the oven is ready and the rolls proved, the 
latter are lifted lightly on to a long peel and slipped 
into the oven. The Vienna oven peel is not like the 
ordinary peel, except in that it has a " rod " and a 
"" head." One kind of peel a very handy one, too 
is almost all head ; it has a long narrow head capable 
of holding five or six twopenny rolls, end to end, and a 
rod of not more than 2 ft. The idea is to put in as 
many rolls as possible at one time, because the oven 
door has got to be opened and shut every time the 
peel is used. It is customary, then, when using this 
style of peel to have two one with a shorter head 
to go round the corners and both these peels arc 
loaded and emptied with one opening and shutting 
of the door. For small rolls that are baked on the 
open bottom a short broad peel is good, say 18 ins. 
long by 12 ins. broad. By using this kind of peel you 
will surprise even yourself at the short time it takes to 
get a big lot of small rolls into the oven. For those 
rolls baked on pans, cf course, the ordinary pan peel 
is best. 

Let us digress for a moment to enable us to give 
one or two more recipes. 

When firing off French rolls or large Vienna rolls, 
lay the peel on the table, which should be drawn up 
close to the oven ; then, if the rolls are proved upside- 
down, turn them on to the peel ; wash with water 



76 VIENNA BREAD. 

if you have any doubts about their taking a glaze ; 
then give three or four cuts quickly with a sharp thin 
knife. Open the oven door, run them in, and slip 
them all off at once at one side of the peel. Withdraw 
the peel, shut oven door, and load up again. If the 
rolls are fully proved, they should have a shallow 
cut, almost a scratch; but if slightly under-proven, 
they must have a good cut. The bursting of the 
cut, however, depends more on the amount of steam 
in the oven than on the deepness of the cut. We like 
to see every cut burst just a little bit, and we accom- 
plish this by regulating the steam. If you keep plenty 
of steam in the oven the cuts will come out as so many 
marks on the loaf only. Of course, this is all a matter 
of taste. In this connection, however, care must be 
exercised in using steam, or the water held in sus- 
pension will be deposited on the peel itself, and this 
will cause the rolls to stick and get spoiled. Water 
will form also on the door and drop off on the rolls as 
you pass them into the oven. 

If the larger rolls are proved " closing down," 
an assistant may help by washing, if washing is 
necessary. To get best results, however, rolls ought 
never to be cut until on the peel. Those small rolls 
proved on pans should not require washing, a puff of 
steam in the prover will fix them. It is a question, by 
the way, what rolls ought to be baked on pans and 
what ought not. There is no hard-and-fast rule, but 
it may be taken as a general rule that all rolls with 
a fair proportion of fat should be baked on pans, 
while all others should be baked on the oven bottom. 
Still, every man must use his own judgment. At the 
present time one of the writers is baking all his Kaiser 
and such like small rolls on pans, for the one sufficient 
reason that his Vienna oven almost always carries too 
much bottom heat ; on the other hand, we have 
heard a friend declare that he often bakes even his 
horseshoes on the oven bottom, because of the 



VIENNA BREAD. 77 

rounded bottom it gives. In this matter the " shoes " 
are proved straight and curled only when put on the 
peel ; for our own part, we never try such jinks. 

As to temperatures of ovens, it is difficult to give 
figures which may be universally applied. For large 
rolls 400 F. to 410 F. should be right, while for rolls 
of the horseshoe description 400 F. should be the 
maximum a sound, rather than a hot, oven is 
necessary. Then for rolls of the Kaiser order 400 F. 
or slightly less makes a good job, but care must be 
taken that the sole is not heavy. All rolls, but par- 
ticularly small ones, should be baked crisp, and, if 
fermentation has been correctly looked after, they will 
remain crisp until almost stale. If they do not 
remain crisp, it may be because of several things the 
chief one probably being under-fermentation. It is 
almost impossible to get under-fermented rolls to 
keep crisp. The want of crispness may also be due 
to the use of too strong flours ; although, of course, 
the prime reason may be under-fermentation as a 
consequence. Then want of crispness may be, and 
often is, due to the fact that baking has been com- 
pleted in an atmosphere of saturated steam, whereas 
crispness can only follow on baking in a dry heat, 
and for this reason we spoke a good word for the side- 
flue Vienna oven, because of the ease by which a dry 
atmosphere can be exchanged for one thoroughly 
saturated with moisture, when the rolls are half 
baked. For this reason also we introduced into 
our Vienna oven sketch a " suggested damper." 
The use of this damper is to carry off the steam once 
the rolls are glazed, and as this is accomplished within 
a few minutes of the rolls entering the oven, certainly 
crispness is bound to be the result. We offer the 
suggestion of this most desirable feature to Vienna 
oven builders, believing that it is a long-felt want. 

There is a subject which we have not treated on 
until now, and that is the very important one of 



78 VIENNA BREAD. 

baking rolls in other than Vienna ovens. We will 
not occupy a great deal of space on it, however, 
believing that, so far as steam glazing is concerned, 
the ordinary oven is a failure. Even with an enorm- 
ous quantity of steam, such could not be got to come 
down on top of the rolls unless some special appliance 
is used. The best thing to use in such a case is a sheet 
of iron the size of the oven door with a very small 
door in it at the bottom. In this way a few rolls may 
be made, but the quantity of steam required is great, 
and there is the additional disadvantage that no 
light can be had inside the oven. With the draw- 
plate oven it is easier ; in fact, given plenty of 
steam, there is no reason why first-class Vienna 
bread may not be turned out properly glazed. The 
plate should be withdrawn, filled quickly with rolls, 
the same washed and cut ; while all the time these 
operations are proceeding, the door should be shut 
(with plate out) and the steam kept blowing in. Now 
the door is opened, the plate pushed in, and the 
steam turned on full ; in a few minutes steam issues 
forth from the chinks of the door. Now shut off 
the steam, and know that the rolls will be all right. 
When half baked open the door for a minute to let 
away a quantity of the steam, and so get crisp 
crusts on your rolls. 

With an ordinary oven it is better not to attempt 
to produce glaze in the oven, unless plenty of pressure 
steam is to be had and you have your mind set on 
the matter. We recommend, as an alternative, the 
use of prepared wash, and can speak with confidence 
of the results of its careful use. We hasten to say 
right away, however, that steam in the oven serves 
more than the purpose of glazing, so that although 
washes are used, and you get almost the same kind 
of glazed crust, you do not always get the same 
results. The moist atmosphere keeps the dough 
from setting at one side faster than another, and, in 



VIENNA BREAD. 79 

fact, does not allow the crust to set until the roll 
has got up to its full height. The result is that with 
a fair amount of proof, much more shapely rolls can 
be got with the Vienna oven, and also more regularity. 
Thus it is, although we think the ordinary oven a 
failure so far as glazing is concerned, we see no 
good reason why steam should not be used where 
procurable. The glazing can be very easily accom- 
plished by using the following : 

Our Favourite Glaze. 

I qrt. warm water (105 F.). 2\ ozs. flour. 

Stir the flour well in so that there shall be no lumps r 
then transfer to the gas-ring and bring to the boil, 
stirring well all the time ; let boil for a minute or 
two, then lay aside for use either hot or cold. The 
warm water is used simply because it comes to the 
boil faster. The rolls should be washed with water 
before they are put into the oven, then they should 
be washed as they come from the oven with the above 
glaze ; they must on no account be allowed to lie 
before glazing. 

In glazing with washes, care must be taken to avoid 
making the crusts streaky. The latter is very often 
the result of an attempt to get an extra good gloss by 
using a thick wash. You must on no account use a 
thick wash. If the gloss is not sufficiently bright, 
slip the rolls back into the oven for a fraction of a 
minute after washing, then withdraw and wash 
again ; any degree of gloss can be got in this way. 
In the matter of other glazes, we may give it as our 
experience that nothing better than the above need 
be desired. Cornstarch or cornflour may be sub- 
stituted and does all right. It is used by some 
Vienna bakers in preference to ordinary flour ; but 
whilst appreciating it, we know nothing of it to 
warrant our preferring it to the flour that is always 
at hand. It is used at the rate of 2 ozs. per quart, 



8o VIENNA BREAD. 

and prepared as above by boiling. The proportion 
of either corn or wheat flour may be varied at will, 
but take our advice and make it thin. Egg-wash 
thinned with water is sometimes used, but we only 
mention it here to get a chance of discouraging its use 
amongst amateur Vienna bread bakers. If it be 
used, it should be used on the rolls before they are 
baked. In this connection it might be well to point 
out that a wash is sometimes made like the following: 

I qrt. water. 2 ozs. cornstarch. 

2 eggs. 

The wash is prepared by boiling as before, but the 
eggs are left out until it has cooled. We do not recom- 
mend this wash, and certainly it must not be used 
after the rolls are baked, as the egg turns white when 
it comes in contact with the hot crust. This applies to 
all washes containing eggs, even in very small pro- 
portion, and ought to be remembered. Our favourite 
wash has this to recommend it ; it gives the rolls 
actually the same kind of glaze as steam, not only in 
appearance, but in chemical composition, and there- 
fore which is important in flavour. 



VIENNA BREAD. 81 



Chapter XI. 



MISCELLANEOUS.- 

BEFORE writing "Finis" we have been tempted 
to add a few miscellaneous items, which we 
hope will be found equally useful with what 
has gone before. 

A roll of a very desirable kind, and of the large 
type, is the Sweet Rye Roll. Rye bread is much 
consumed on the Continent, and there we really get 
rye flour ; we do not think, however, that rye bread, 
as used on the Continent, would be appreciated here, 
but with good rye and a little wheat flour a very 
enticing roll may be made. Take 

2 Ibs. medium to strong 2- ozs. yeast. 

flour. i oz. salt. 

2 Ibs. rye flour (not 6 ozs. golden syrup. 

meal). i quart water (no' J F.). 

Mix the rye and wheat flours together, then make 
up into dough as described under Straight Dough, in 
Chapter vi, and allow to lie for an hour. At the 
end of that time turn the dough and well toughen it 
by stretching and folding. Repeat this in half-an- 
hour, and in a further half-hour or at the end 
of two hours from starting scale off and hand 
up. Let lie for almost twenty minutes ; then make 
up as described for French Roll, i.e., the same 
thickness all through (see French Roll illustration). 
Prove on dusted boards with closing down, and 
bake on the oven bottom in a little steam. Do 
not cut with a knife, as described for French Rolls 

F 



82 VIENNA BREAD. 

simply give about four docks with a thin skewer 
instead. This makes a beautiful roll, which eats 
well and lends itself admirably to slicing. 

Sometimes customers may ask for the sour variety, 
but, as this will happen but seldom, we content our- 
selves with giving a simple, if not right, way to 
make a few. Make up half the above, leaving out 
the syrup and yeast, and allow it to lie all night. 
Next morning make up half the above, minus the 
syrup, but with 2 ozs. of yeast ; add the dough 
made the previous night and a few carraway seeds. 
This dough will be ready for scaling in about i hours, 
but will want turning during that time. Make up 
this roll pointed at the ends, prove as before, and, 
just before it goes to the oven, dock about four 
times with a thin skewer. 

Another roll, which we intended to leave out, but 
which on second thoughts we include, is called Bretzel. 
This is a small roll and is made from dough like 
Horseshoe dough. Take : 

1 8 Ibs. flour i Ib. margarine, 

i Ib. lard. 2 qrts. milk. 

3i pts. water. 14 eggs. 

With 6 ozs. yeast for three hours. As it is probable 
only a few of these will be made at one time, it will be 
easier to take, say, i Ibs. of Horseshoe dough, one 
hour before it is ready for scaling, and mix in one egg 
and a dust of flour. The simplest way to make 
these is to pin out the dough until in. thick, then 
cut it up in strips with a sharp knife. These strips are 
then rolled out long. Afterwards you take an end 
in each hand, give one hand a quick jerk, which makes 
a loop with a double twist at the neck, then lay the 
ends over to catch the bend of the loop ; keep the 
ends well apart, then press down. 



VIENNA BREAD. 83 

Stollen. 

This is like a rich fermented cake and is very nice 
indeed. For a small lot take 

4 eggs. 4j Ibs. flour. 

1 pt. milk. 3 ozs. yeast. 
And water sufficient with 6 ozs. sugar. 

the eggs and milk to fill Pinch of salt, 
a quart measure. 

Eggs, milk, and water should be heated together 
to 100 F., and all made up into a straight dough ; 
or, the water, milk, sugar, yeast, and half the flour 
may be made up into a batter sponge, allowed to 
come up and drop, and the rest of the ingredients 
incorporated. By the straight dough method the 
dough will be ready in forty-five minutes. It should, 
of course, be kneaded well, say twice during that 
period and, at any rate, should be good lively dough. 
Into this dough now mix 

14 ozs. butter. \ Mo. lemon peel (shred). 

2 Ibs. sultanas. Ib. citron peel (in small 

Ib. shred almonds. cubes). 

The butter should be softened previously, and the 
fruit warmed. If this be done, the dough will begin 
to show signs of life right away, and as soon as it 
has made a fair start, scale off. Afterwards mould 
up oval on to baking-sheets, or put into square pans, 
prove slowly, and bake in a mild oven. When 
drawn, wash light with a little water, and dust with 
pulverised sugar. This may be made in any size and 
should bring in easily at the rate of 6d. per Ib. 

Sunday Bread (Small Mixing). 

2^ Ibs. flour. \\ ozs. yeast. 

2 ozs. sugar. i egg. 

3 ozs. butter (margarine). i pt. liquor (fully). 

Take up the liquor (which should be half milk and 
half water) at 94 F., and with a pinch of salt dough 



84 VIENNA BREAD. 

up. The dough should be ready in two hours, 
and should be scaled at 12 ozs. for 2d. It should be 
moulded pan shape, care being taken to leave one 
side of the closing longer than the other. This piece 
should be flattened down somewhat and folded over 
the loaf loosely. The loaf is then put in a small pan 
(oval or square) with the loose part uppermost. When 
the loaf is proved and finally baked, this loose part 
bursts at one side and shows the fine creaminess of the 
loaf. 

Vienna Brioche. 

8 ozs. flour. 2 eggs. 

2 ozs. sugar. i oz. yeast. 

4 ozs. butter. Milk. 




FIG. 19. SUNDAY BREAD. 

Take all warm new milk, as much as will make 
a medium dough ; allow it to lie in a warm place 
until well proved, then double up and scale a few 



VIENNA BREAD. 85 

minutes afterwards at 2\ ozs. for a penny. Work 
off in the form of cottages with a very small head 
pushed well down. Prove on tins, then snip three or 
four times round the edge of the bottom half with 
scissors ; egg- wash, and bake. In some places this 
dough is made at night and placed in the ice cave ; 
is laid on warm, boards in the morning, and then 
worked off. The appearance of these dainties is 
improved by baking them in cheese cake pans ; 
this plan is not at all troublesome. 

German Brioche. 

3j Ibs. flour. 4 eggs. 

6 ozs. sugar. 2 ozs. yeast. 

14 ozs. butter. ij pts. liquor. 

Liquor half milk, half water, at 96 ; dough up 
tight as for horseshoes, prove well, knock out, prove 
again, then knock out and a few minutes later scale. 
iMake up into horseshoes and three-plait twists, 
and before they go into the oven wash and sprinkle 
with sugar. 

The above can be modified, df course. No doubt 
many will think that Vienna Brioche is unduly rich. 
Still, if it is compared with such things as puff paste 
it is not. It is, of course, an extra rich mixing, but 
it eats remarkably nice when properly made, and 
is not at all heavy or sodden. It is just the kind of 
thing that will catch on with good-class customers 
when they have grown tired of everything else : and 
how often does the average baker wish for some- 
thing unique under such circumstances. 

And now the time has come to close this series, 
not because we have said ah 1 we have to say, or 
written all we might have written on the subject. 
The foregoing does not pretend to be an exhaustive 
treatise on the subject of Vienna bread making, 
and for this one reason, elaborate treatises are 



86 



VIENNA BREAD. 



prone to dryness, because of their exhaustiveness 
one can have too much even of a good thing ; and so 
it has been our aim all through to make this little 
book not only educative and instructive, but in- 
teresting. Exactly how far we have succeeded in 
this we leave the reader to judge. 



THE END. 




University of California 

SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 

405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90024-1388 

Return this material to the library 

from which it was borrowed. 



2-WEEKS IIIN Ol 
URUD JUN 2 ] 



1994 



UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 



A 000 590 820 7 



university 
Southern 
Library 




